


[i¥p>p?q^jl|^;.i{&5; 



f&t^ 



.■«r&*t3?^. 




The original of tiiis book is in 
tine Cornell University Library. 

There are no known copyright restrictions in 
the United States on the use of the text. 



http://www.archive.org/details/cu31924073878799 



Mrs. Norton's 
Gook-Book 



Selecting, Cooking, and Serving for 
the Home Table 



By 

Jeannette Young Norton 



G. P. Putnam's Sons 

New York and London 

tCbe fmicftetbocltet press 

1917 



rx 



Copyright, 1917 

BY 

JEANNETTE YOUNG NORTON 



Ube fsnfcliecboclieT Vrcsa, new JSotft 



This Book is Lovingly Dedicated to 
MY SON 

WHOSE APPRECIATIVE ENTHUSIASM INSPIRED THE WRITING. 



PREFACE 

In presenting this volvune to the public I want to 
acknowledge my gratitude to my friends among master 
marketmen in all branches, prominent chefs, and good home 
cooks, all of whom have willingly and generously aided me 
in all ways possible. 

I have tried to make this a cook book, pure and simple, 
avoiding all reference to, and rules of, chemistry, feeling 
that the pupils of the schools of domestic science have 
all such information and their training will enable them 
to adapt any desired recipe to fit their own chemical 
measurements. The lay woman would not ordinarily use 
such information if it were given. 

Feeling that all women would prefer to find adequate 
information as to season, time of cooking, and so on, directly 
with the recipe for the cooking of that particular food, I have 
incorporated all information in that way — ^with each recipe 
— ^rather than in separate tables. 

Believing the question of temperance to be a purely 
personal one, I have included wines and liquors in various 
recipes, where their presence is considered by culinary 
experts to be a decided improvement in the flavoring of 
the dish. 

As fashions in table decorations change with the seasons, 
I have decided to omit from these pages pictures of set 
tables. 

This book is the outcome of twenty-five years of experi- 
ence in cooking and testing foods. Many of these recipes 
have already appeared in magazines and newspapers 
throughout the United States. 



vi Prefi 



ace 



Good cooking does not consist in the preparation of 
highly seasoned foods designed to pamper perverted 
appetites, but in cooking the simple things in a palatable 
way. To become a good cook one must love the work and 
never find it too hard or disagreeable, and must be impervi- 
ous to heat or cold. The impatient cook will soon wake 
to the fact that everything in the kitchen reflects her mood, 
and usually failure will be the result. The cheery cook, 
who looks upon her work as an art to be cultivated and 
learned, is bound to succeed. Cheeriness is infectious, and 
it will span the distance between her kitchen and her 
tradesmen's shops; with the result that they will all strive 
to do their best in her service. 

In using this book every recipe and the instructions 
about it should be carefully read before attempting the 
making of the dish selected. 

A carefully prepared index will be found at the back of 
the book. 

May all my sister-women who use this book find in it 
solutions for their culinary problems, and may success 
attend their earnest endeavors, is the cordial wish of. 



Jeannette Young Norton. 



New York, 

January, 1917. 



CONTENTS 



PART I.— GENERAL INFORMATION 

Cooking by Coal, Gas, and Electricity . 


PAGE 

3 


Serving Meals ...... 


6 


Care of Table Linens .... 


9 


Care of Silverware and Cut Glass 


17 


Measuring Tables ..... 


• 23 


For the Home Cook's Important Consideration 24 


PART II.— RECIPES 




Canapes and Relishes .... 


. 27 


Soups .... 








. 37 


Soup Garnishes 








87 


Fish 








• 93 


Crustacea, Mollusks 








128 


Entries .... 








150 


Art of Carving . 








173 


Meats .... 








177 


Beef .... 








177 


Veal .... 








190 


Mutton and Lamb 








196 


Pork 








202 



vu 



VIU 



Contents 









PAGE 


Poultry 208 


Game 




. 227 


Stuffings, Sauces, and Gravies 




. 230 


Food Garnishes and their Making 




. 250 


Rare Trifles for the Table . 




. 254 


Vegetables .... 






. 265 


Chinese Vegetables 






. 312 


Cereals 






. 314 


Macaroni and Spaghetti 






. 318 


Salads .... 






• 324 


Salad Dressings and Sauces 






• 354 


Dairy Products: 








Eggs .... 






. 361 


Milk, Cream, and Butter 






. 373 


Cheese .... 






. . 376 


Nuts 






. 382 


Bread Making and Breads 






• 389 


Quick Hot Breads . 






. 393 


Waffles and Pancakes . 






• 403 


Desserts and Sauces . 






. 409 


Shortcakes . 






. 424 


Tarts and Fritters 






. 428 


Jellied Desserts . 






• 430 


Fruit Desserts 






• 434 


Pies and Pastry Making 






• 442 



Contents 



IX 



Cakes, Cake Making; Fillings 


and Icings 




PAGE 

455 


Home-Made Ice Creams 


477 


Sherbets and Ices 








490 


Mousses 








496 


Candy .... 








499 


Beverages .... 








508 


Preserving and Pickling . 








525 


Invalid Cookery 








555 


Nursery Diet 








565 


Child Cookery . 








581 


Children's Parties 








584 


School Luncheons 








589 


Sandwich Making; Fillings 








593 


Camp Cookery 








602 


Casserole Cookery 








608 


Index .... 








615 



PART I 
General Information 



COOKING BY COAL, GAS, AND ELECTRICITY 

Cooking with a coal range, while it gives the best results 
of any cooking medium, is the most troublesome. The 
cook must understand every part of the range, the exact 
quantity of the chimney draught, and just what the range will 
do under all conditions. It must be thoroughly cleaned and 
the fire brick be kept free of clinkers if it is to do its best 
work. This is satisfactorily done by purchasing two 
pounds of zinc scraps from the tinsnaith and strewing them 
over the top of a bright burning fire. They will soon dis- 
appear in white fumes of zinc oxide which will clean away 
all soot from stove and chimney as well as a sweep would 
do the job. There are many good coal ranges on the market 
but the one that is most highly favored is that with the 
gauze oven door. The writer speaks from experience, 
having used one steadily for sixteen years, and during that 
time never had things more deliciously cooked in an oven 
or a thing burned except on one or two occasions when it 
was from carelessness and not due to the range conditions. 

Gas. When cooking with the modem gas stove there are 
a few regular rules that must be obeyed. When the stove 
is placed it should like a coal stove have a pipe running from 
it into a chimney in order to carry off all poisonous gases. 
When lighting the stove for use of the oven open the doors 
to liberate any gas that may be confined there, light the 
pilot light, then turn on one oven burner at a time and make 
sure they are lighted, then turn off the pilot, close the doors, 
and allow the oven to heat to the desired temperature 
before using. When broiling, leave the door of the broiler 

3 



4 Cooking by- Coal, Gas, and Electricity- 
open. When baking many cooks put a basin of water into 
the oven to supply moisture to the hot air. It is also a wise 
precaution to have the range tested and looked to by the 
gas man once in three months, to regtilate the draughts and 
general things that may need an expert's eye. The asbestos 
pads are handy to keep things from burning on the gas 
holes, or those of perforated steel with a double bottom are 
good. An asbestos glove is nice to use while basting foods 
as it protects the hand and forearm from the heat. While 
cooking by gas is very handy and a good method, the cook 
must make up her mind to stay in the kitchen while the 
cooking is going on or run the risk of accidents of various 
kinds. The flame is not always dependable like the coal 
fire and one never knows just how to gauge it to leave for 
any length of time. 

Electricity. The coal range and the gas range have each 
marked a step towards cooking perfection, but the electric 
range seems to have distanced all previous methods. Elec- 
tric cooking is no longer confined to the very wealthy homes 
or to those where there is a man who understands electricity, 
but is available to everybody. The price of the current 
is now low enough to make it practical, and the control of 
heat used has been perfected. The operator at each burner 
commands three degrees of heat at the turn of a simple 
switch. There is no waste and the degree is always the 
same. No heat can escape from the oven for it is planned 
on the principle of the fireless cooker and is heavily insulated 
to retain the heat. It is flameless and safe cooking, with 
no smoke, soot, or ash. The oven may be regulated by the 
thermometer set in the door. Among the good features 
of the electric range are many, one being that the oven is 
on a level with the cooking hole plate where it is very easy 
to get at what is cooking. Underneath there is a shelf 
which serves as a hot table on which foods may be kept 
warm while dishing up the meals. 

There are many argvmients for and against the use of the 



CooKixi^ by Coal, Gas, and Electricity- 5 

fireless cookers, but no matter which of the many kinds on 
the market are used they all have to have the foods to be 
cooked in them started on a range, that is all but the 
electric cooker. 

The electric fireless cooker is said to roast, bake, boil, 
fry, steam, and stew equally well. It is attached to the 
electric current also by an ordinary socket plug, and at the 
end of thirty minutes the current is automatically discon- 
tinued. The cooking goes on as long as desired. A num- 
ber of things may be cooked at the same time, as in other 
styles of fireless cookers. 

The electric frying pan is operated by a socket plug, 
so it may be used right on the breakfast table if desired, 
as the electric toaster is used. It may also be inverted on 
its stand to become a disk stove, upon which other utensils 
may be heated. The current runs through the hollow 
handle. 



SERVING MEALS 

The five-course dinner is the one generally served to-day, 
with the eight courses for state occasions. The instruc- 
tions given here for laying the table and a few words as to 
waiting may be used for luncheons, dinners, and formal 
breakfasts. After putting on the felt silence cloth cover 
it with the tablecloth. Place the centerpiece, flowers, 
candles, and other decorations next. Arrange about the 
center the relishes, salted nuts, and bonbons in cut glass, 
silver, or fancy dishes. Put a service plate at each place 
and lay the folded napkin at the left, the knives at the 
right, the blades turned toward the plate; the one next 
the plate is the dessert knife, next the meat knife, then 
the fish knife, and then the soup spoon, and the oyster, 
clam, or snail fork is laid across them diagonally. On 
the left side the mating forks are laid, with an extra one for 
the -entree. As butter is seldom served at dinner the plate 
and spreader are omitted, but if used they head the forks, 
while the water and wine glasses head the knives. The 
individual salt cellars head the plate; if the tiny castors are 
used then one is placed between each two guests. 

The dinner roll or soup stick may be folded in the napkin 
if desired. As course replaces course the waitress removes 
the plate with her left hand, replacing the fresh one with her 
right hand, so that the place is never empty until the table 
is crumbed for the sweet course. 

In modern dinner parties the cocktails and relishes are 
eaten in the drawing-room before dinner is announced, thus 
allowing fifteen minutes for the arrival of a belated guest. 

6 



Serving Meals 7 

The coffee and bonbons are also served in the drawing-room 
after dinner. 

In serving at home or informal dinners the hostess is 
-always served first, at formal affairs the guest of honor, who 
usually sits at the host's right hand, is served first, then the 
hostess and the other guests. At most fashionable dinners 
the meat or game is carved in the butler's pantry and passed ; 
or if the dish is very unusually cooked and garnished it is 
set for a few minutes before the host so it can be seen, then 
it is removed to the sideboard or side table and carved. 

During the meat course the waitress must see that the 
bread is passed and that a second helping of vegetables is 
offered to each guest. In passing the vegetables she grasps 
the dish firmly in her left hand ^nd holds it close down to the 
edge of the plate and conveniently near for the guests to 
serve themselves without difficulty. 

Serving dinner with one maid or without a maid requires 
careful calculation and a very restricted number of guests 
if it is to be a success. Of course the foods can be well 
planned and ready to serve in their regular order but the 
serving is the rub. The hostess must sit in the place where 
she makes least confusion going to and fro from the kitchen, 
and in this case good sized trays or a wheeled server are 
allowable. 

It is much easier to give three or four parties to a limited 
number if one must do it without help than one large and 
confusing affair. In fact an elaborate dinner is an abomi- 
nation if it is not well cooked and perfectly served. 

Children are debarred from formal dinners until they 
are quite well grown, which is a wise provision and lessens , 
many complications. 

Dinner invitations are sent out two weeks in advance, 
and should be accepted or regrets sent within three or four 
days. 

Cocktails and relishes are served in the drawing-room. 
Oysters or clains on the half shell, or a canape precede the 
soup at table. Next the fish or an entree. Then the meat 



8 Serving Meals 

and vegetables. Then the dinner may be broken with an 
ice. Then the game course, next the salad, with which the 
crackers and cheese are oflfered, then the pudding, or frozen 
dainties, the coffee and bonbons being served in the 
drawing room. 



TABLE LINENS 

The modem woman has learned to take such pride in her 
linen closet and such good care of her linens that it is not 
an extravagance to add a few new pieces to her stock each 
season. She now keeps that which is not in everyday use 
folded in well blued linen cloths, the lace and embroidered 
centerpieces rolled on padded rollers, and her very fine 
doilies basted on soft cushions. The matron who enter- 
tains often must keep her table appointments up to the 
standard set by fashion; beyond that she may allow herself 
even a dash of originality, but the changes of fashions in 
laces, sizes of napkins and doilies, patterns of damasks and 
marking of the linen, are details wherein her knowledge 
must be kept up to the moment. Authority may vary in 
different^ocalities on some points in linen fashions, but the 
exclusive shops are good guides and it is safe to follow their 
advice in the main selection. 

The elegant dinner cloth of to-day is of lace and finest 
linen. Point de Venise lace is combined with Venetian 
embroidery and cutwork'or with the Italian Reticella work 
in the most elaborate and expensive cloths. There are 
round cloths with filet medallions and an eighteen-inch 
fall below the table. For luncheon, if the lace cloth is to be 
used, it comes in size to exactly fit the top of the table, to be 
used without doilies, or in a set of centerpiece, size 27 or 
29 inches in diameter, and plate, butter-plate, and glass 
doilies. Which to use is a matter of taste only. The same 
cloths may be had in the square shape if one's table is 
square, and it is permissible to have an under-cloth of satin 
to match the color of the floral decorations. The "chem^ 

9 



10 Table L-inens 

in" or table runner to use on the Abbey tables is to be had 
in the same elaborate lace patterns. These lace tablecloths 
are rarely marked, as the lace and embroidery cover nearly 
all the available surface; sometimes, however, they are 
marked in little one-inch letters simply for identification 
in case of loss. 

With the fashion of serving the cocktail and relish in the 
drawing-room before dinner, and the serving of coffee and 
cordial in the same way after dinner, the tiny cocktail and 
tea or coffee napkins have become necessities. The former 
are six inches square, with one corner embroidered with a 
tiny strutting "Chantecler" in white or in colors, or a 
lace inset butterfly with a lace edge around the napkin. 
The tea or coffee napkins are a trifle larger, but embroidered 
and finished in the same way. With the lace cloths, the 
lace-edged napkins with one corner embroidered are used, 
and they are in what is called medium size; in fact, the 
dinner napkins now in general use are this size, as Americans 
do not seem to care for the 30-inch size popular in France. 

The plain linen damask dinner cloth, with or without 
the double satin border, still leads the fashion. Such cloths 
when oblong have four monograms or sets of initials. Two 
at the sides are placed with the tops of the letters 15 
inches from the center of the cloth, to allow for a center- 
piece 27 inches in diameter, and the end monograms 
are placed about 18 inches from each end of the table. 
The letters are from two to four inches high, according to 
fancy. The round cloth has two monograms, one at each 
end of the center. In some instances the initials appear on 
diagonal corners of the cloth and in one corner of the 
napkin, but the newest way is to mark the center *bf the 
napkin, folding the ends under to show the elaborate in- 
itials. The oblong doilies, to use for plate, glass, and butter- 
plate, are used, but are not as fashionable as the three 
separate ones for the same purpose. 

The favorite patterns seem to be the three-inch diagonal 
and length-wise stripes of satin and plain damask, with 



Table Linens il 

conventionalized borders that are six or eight inches wide. 
One with moire satin and damask stripes four inches wide 
has a handsome Grecian border. Of the newest offerings 
in pattern damask there are the "ermine," the "laurel and 
acorn," "thistle and scroll," "Celtic and block," "empire 
and block," and the floral patterns. The stems in these 
floral patterns start at the edges or ends and corners of the 
cloth. One odd cloth is of plain daniask with an immense 
bunch of American Beauty roses stretching diagonally 
across the cloth, tied with a satin woven bowknot. 

The beautiful lace cloths are made mostly in Germany, 
in the Black Forest, where the makers are expert in the 
Weikel and mosaic drawnwork. These cloths are best 
dry-cleaned and then laid away in deeply-blued muslin 
cloth. The formal dinner cloths, like the centerpieces, 
are rolled so there are no creases, while the everyday 
cloths may be folded. 

Fotir distinctly new patterns in table linens are worth 
calling attention to. One is a new version of the "rose and 
bowknot" design. The roses, large and exquisitely natural, 
are gathered in big bunches, garlanded by the satiny bow- 
knots around the cloth in irregular wreath fashion above 
the three-inch border of feathery maidenhair fern, so that 
the blooms lay upon the table top, finishing just outside the 
centerpiece. 

A new "Adams" cloth has the familiar oval medallion 
design arranged to form a prim but fascinating border that 
should set off the family silver to great advantage. A 
"Jacobean" cloth has a formal heavy architectural design 
which is quite as somber as the furniture from which it is 
taken, and it makes a most formal appearing dinner cloth. 
The pattern is so arranged that it extends on to the table 
top, so that the centerpiece which is to be used with it must 
be chosen with great care to be in harmony with this dig- 
nified cloth. 

A Grecian key and laurel wreath design is not nearly 
as formal as the other patterns. A new version of the 



12 Table Onens 

striped cloth has the broad moire pattern stripes running 
diagonally across the table with a rather severe conven- 
tionalized floral border. An odd cloth has a laurel circu- 
lar band which lies upon the top of the table, and is almost 
reached by bunches of bluebells and poppies tied together 
with bowknots. 

Very attractive is the plain linen luncheon cloth, which 
is hemstitched and tape bordered, with mitered hem. There 
are napkins to match this cloth. One of the most attractive 
cloths has baskets of fruit swinging by ribbons from a 
wreath in the center, and below there is a garland of grape 
leaves with bunches of grapes depending toward the bottom 
of the cloth. 

The ribbon trellis pattern should be used without a center- 
piece other than flowers. Two-inch satin stripes run from 
hem to hem each way, forming the four-inch trellis blocks. 

The tablecloth of plain damask with four-inch satin 
border is still the fashion leader. Linen men, however, all 
prophesy a decided change in patterns in the near future, 
as Egyptian designs are promised, with the Sphinx, Ara- 
besques, dragons, and all sorts of unusual figures which will, 
for a time, cast the flowers and fruit, the ribbons and wreaths, 
even our grandmother's "snowdrop," into the shade. 

Worn tablecloths are a great tax on the housewife's 
ingenuity, for they seem to be naturally depraved and are 
always getting themselves torn in the most impossible 
places, acquiring spots without seeming provocation, and 
in almost a night showing a perforation of fine holes that 
are a problem for the finest of cobweb darners. A patched 
tablecloth is an abomination in the sight of the particular 
housekeeper, so when they wear out in the center she feels 
justified in cutting the edges up for home breakfast or serv- 
ing napkins and joyfully filling its place with a new one. 
If cloths are torn beyond redemption they may be cut into 
tray cloths for everyday use. One way to mend the diffi- 
culty is to take some small Irish crochet ornaments and 
cover the holes in a special design which gives the cloth a 



Table L.inens 13 

new lease of life. Another way is to cut away the holes the 
size of fifty-cent pieces and fill them in with an embroidered 
cobweb design. A third way is to cut out the entire worn 
center and appliqu^ a Japanese embroidered centerpiece in 
the opening, making doilies to match, and thus a most 
attractive luncheon set of the erstwhile wreck is made. 

If the year is started with six new tablecloths and they 
are used in rotation it is astonishing how long a time they 
will last, if fair care is taken in the laundering. The round 
cloths, while very pretty to use on the popular round tables, 
are very difficult to launder and have them keep their shape 
unless they are done by an expert. 

Linens Set Apart for the Veranda. Most popular for 
this use are the plain art linens, which come in many of 
the softer pastel shades, as well as in the nut-browns and 
purples. The cloths are finished with the Grecian knotted 
fringe eight inches deep and braided about four inches, and 
they are weighted at each corner with little linen-covered 
lead weights to defy stray breezes. These can be removed 
when the cloths are laundered. The napkins to match are 
coarsely hemstitched; some of the linens are marked with 
four-inch cross-stitch initials that are quite effective and 
are not difficult to do. 

To Take Stains from Linen. Stains on the table linen in 
the berry season are among the summer trials of the house- 
keeper. Of course the careftd housewife looks out for this 
and puts away her best table linen, but even the second best 
looks much dotted with brown stains and destroys the 
dainty appearance of the summer table. One has to be 
very alert to catch the spotted pieces before they reach the 
laundry, for the moment soap and water touch them the 
damage is done. 

If the spotted portion of the linen is laid over a bowl and 
boiling water poured through it, this will remove the more 
innocent stains; but for the dark berry stains, and those 



14 Table Linens 

which do not respond to the boiling water, stretch the linen, 
light sulphur matches beneath it and let the smoke pass 
through the stain. The sulphur fumes will remove it. 
Of course this must be carefully done, so as not to set the 
linen afire. 

An especially good way of removing peach stains is to 
put a tablespoon of flour of sulphur on an old plate, wet 
it with a few drops of alcohol, ignite it and place a tin 
funnel over the burning heap. Have the spot in the linen 
wet with cold water, then hold it over the smoke and the 
spot will disappear at once. 

The mildew on linen, which is carelessly thrown when still 
damp into the hamper, is a' most as trying to the housewife 
as are the berry stains. For the mildew, rub the spots with 
yellow soap and powdered chalk; when it is dried, scrape 
it off and continue the applications until. the spots are 
removed. 

Ink spots are easily removed from linen by dipping the 
part stained into hot water and then spreading it smoothly 
on the back of a spoon, then pouring a few drops of oxalic 
acid or salts of sorrel over it, rubbing and rinsing in cold 
water until the spots are removed. 

Many fussy housekeepers will not allow their cloths to be 
put into the boiler to boil without first being encased in a 
linen bag or an old pillow slip, for fear of iron rust getting 
upon them in some way. Javel water will remove the rust 
stains, if they are not set by soap; put on the diluted javel 
water and lay the linen in the sun and repeat the process 
until the stains disappear. If the article has been washed 
with soap first it will be a hopeless task. 

Grass stains may be removed by wetting the green spots 
in common molasses and then putting them in the sun. 
Repeat this until the spots are gone. The articles may then 
be washed. 

If one's stock of table linen is limited it is best to stick 
to pure white, even for the centerpieces, for there is nothing 
as bad as faded out glories, that tell of too frequent wash- 



J Table Linens 15 

Ings to which their beauty has been sacrificed. The home 
embroidered things are much more durable, and if one has 
time to do them they may be more elaborate than could be 
afforded in any other way. 

The tan table Unen done in Russian and Danish patterned 
borders in colors, both in cross-stitch and outline embroid- 
ery, is very decorative; in some cases the color design is 
worked in medallions where the threads have already been 
drawn, which gives the border of the cloth a lacy appearance. 
The edges of these cloths are often finished with lace of 
linen the same color as the cloth. 

Owing to the cessation of imports, particularly from 
Germany, there are not the usual varieties of colored 
damasks or the white cloths with colored borders to 
choose from though there are plenty of the Japanese 
towelings, which are being utilized for the purpose. The 
strips are herring-boned together until they are wide 
enough, then one long piece is made to form the border, 
which is hemstitched. 

Perfuming the Linen. The fancy for perfuming the 
family linen continues to grow. It was the custom in our 
grandmothers' day to lay sprays of sweet basil, lavender, a 
few rose leaves or a bunch of sweet herbs in the linen chest 
to give it a fragrant odor. That was in the day when the 
snowy piles were all hemmed by hand and initialed during 
long evenings under the lamplight, and each piece carefully 
numbered so that all could be accounted for. 

But to-day, when the chest has grown into big linen 
closets with cavernous shelves, it requires an expert to do 
the perfuming, and the cost thereof would have made those 
same grandmothers' hair rise straight up from their heads. 
But this is an extravagant generation, so why quibble over 
one small item? 

The perfumes the expert uses are the delightful, old- 
fashioned ones, such as sweet clover, lemon verbena, la- 
vender, peach leaf, and clove pink. They are made into 



l6 Table I^inens 

wonderful sachets of lingerie-covered silk, which are put 
into the centerpiece rolls, doily cases, napkin bags, and in 
the satin covered elastic bands which bind them. The 
blotters behind each shelf are also perfumed. 



CARE OF SILVERWARE AND CUT GLASS 

The modern hostess who attempts to keep pace with 
the fashions of the silversmiths will have not only her hands 
but her sideboard drawers and shelves full, for of the making 
of flat ware there seems no end. Although the formal course 
dinner has been cut to half the former number of courses, 
there seems to be twice as much silver required to serve it 
with. There appears to be a spoon, fork, knife, pick or 
tongs of some sort to serve every known edible. 

However, the more conservative hostesses have decided 
that it is time to call a halt and now lay only silver enough 
for five courses or less, the rest being placed as it is needed. 
This simplifies matters and really makes the table look 
much prettier. The properly laid table in the United 
States now shows, at the right of the plate, two knives, the 
soup spoon and across them the oyster fork. At the left 
are two forks, a teaspoon and the tiny asparagus tongs; the 
butter spreader rests on the butter plate. Salad forks, 
with their broad tines, come with the salad. The game 
forks, laid with the short curved game knives, are rather 
broad and shorter than the meat forks. Cheese knives, 
that come with the cheese course, are blunt and spatulate 
in shape. The dessert knife may be used as a butter 
spreader, although often at formal dinners butter is not 
now served. 

There are spoons for every purpose, in shapes best fitted 
for what they are designed to serve. The deep, round 
bowled spoons are for bouillon, the sharp pointed bowls for 
the grapefruit, and there are the oblong dessert spoons, the 
open-work jelly spoons and the regular teaspoons. Ice- 
cream spoons are used with the ice-cream fork. Where 
a 17 



l8 Care of Silverware and Cut Glass 

formerly, in serving from the platter, a fork and tablespoon 
did acceptable duty, now each viand has a server peculiarly 
its own. The asparagus has a large pair of broad-tmed 
tongs for serving, and small tongs for individual use. 
The shced tomatoes have a round, flat pair of tongs passed 
with them, so that one may pick up one slice daintily 
at a time. The cucumber has a fork and serving spoon 
of its own; the sardine has a long slender fork; lettuce, 
has a fork, while, with the sandwich tray, pretty tongs are 
passed. 

Chafing-dish silver is always especially designed for the 
purpose. There are potato chip servers, pea servers, waffle 
servers, egg servers, and ladles of all shapes and sizes for 
cream, sauces and gravies, melted butter or jelly, or for the 
popular ice-cream sauces. To be strictly in accord with 
fashion's latest decree, the dessert service of silver is gilded 
over entirely, where formerly the gold-hned bowls of the 
spoons were the thing. 

There are also a number of silver centerpieces used now- 
adays; there is the silver pheasant with spread tail, and 
the humble goose, whose wings may be pushed aside to 
show within a receptacle for salted nuts. 

Those interested in the latest fashions for the table, should 
know that silver platters and vegetable dishes have partly 
superseded those of china. Though the original cost is 
more, the durability is greater. The dainty course dishes 
vary the table enough so that one does not tire of the silver. 
Of course, the entire silver service may be used if one pre- 
fers to do away with the china altogether. Then the plates 
should be those of white Minton china, covered with silver, 
with the rim turned over the edge; or plates with silver 
filagree borders and a monogram in the center, but these 
are harder to keep clean and do not wear as well. Silver 
deposit bowls, fancy dishes, and tumblers with the 
silver deposit rims, are also designed for use with the all- 
silver service, those in rock crystal and in Bohemian glass 
being especially beautiful. 



Care of Silver-ware and Cvit Glass 



19 



Even the society habitu^ runs across new table small 
silver and dishes the use of which he is not certain of, 
and finds it a little safer to watch his hostess before 
using his own supply, for he knows that she knows 
what she purchased and the use for which the article was 
designed. 

The following things are usually eaten from the fingers in 
everyday polite society: 

Radishes, olives, salted nuts, pickles, celery, and aspara- 
gus if no little tongs are provided for it; lettuce when served 
with salt, strawberries when served with the hulls on; 
bread and butter, dry toast, muffins, biscuits, and all small 
cakes; large seeded fruits such as pears, peaches, plums, 
grapes and apricots — ^the larger fruits are usually pared and 
quartered; the dairy and English cheeses, when not too 
soft and fresh. 

An ear of sweet corn may be held firmly in one hand. 
The legs and wings of birds may be taken in the fingers, but 
it is not looked upon favorably by the over particular ones. 
The sugar tongs are to be used with lump sugar, but if a 
lump of domino sugar is more than one desires it may be 
broken in the fingers, Dry cakes, bonbons, and sandwiches 
cut in fancy shapes complete the list. 

Now for the use of the fork, for the knife plays but a 
small part in the modem table usage, its duties being divided 
by the butter knife and the fruit knife, so that it leaves only 
the meat and game course for its needed presence. 

The fork is needed for all vegetables except for asparagus, 
or peas and corn when served in side dishes when a spoon 
is offered; croquettes, patties, salads, fish and all shell food, 
deviled or scalloped food and chafing-dish dainties, soft 
sandwiches, pastry and cakes with soft fillings, cheeses that 
are soft, and there is an especial fork that is used for ice 
cream. 

This covers the main articles, and if the wary one will 
con over the list carefully he will not make any serious 
blunders. 



20 Care of Silver-ware and C-ut Glass 

Nursery SUver. At last the silversmith has realized the 
necessity of placing suitable flat silver on the nursery table. 
The traditional knife, fork, and spoon are now made short 
and rather wide, the fork and knife being five inches in 
length, while the teaspoon is a trifle shorter, with a wide, 
deep bowl. To accompany the set, there is a shallow, small 
silver cup which is easily handled, and a small silver plate, 
dessert-plate size. This little outfit is handy, saves much 
breakage, and is just right for small, chubby hands. 

Cleaning of Silver. A word first about the cleaning 
outfit may be in order. The new silver pan requires only 
the laying of the fiatware in it, to be covered with boiling 
water and allowed to remain there until the water cools. 
Then it may be dried and polished. There are a number of 
good liquids and powders on the market for cleaning pur- 
poses, but those recommended by the silversmiths and 
jewelers are perhaps the best. Chamois-covered padded 
silver boards are excellent to clean large pieces on, and the 
various brushes and chamois fork and knife cleaners are 
a necessity, if there is much cleaning to be done. There 
are three sizes in the brushes, and a spoon burnisher will 
also be found very convenient. One of the new conveni- 
ences is the glove chamois polisher; it has a glove pocket 
on the back of the chamois which gives one an excellent 
grip on it while polishing a large piece. 

When all of the large pieces are cleaned and polished 
ready to be put away for the summer, they should be 
lightly smeared over with fresh lard, then wrapped in cam- 
phorated flannel and put into their cotton flannel bags, 
after which they may be stowed away in a closet or silver 
trunk for the season. When they are removed they need 
only be washed in hot soapy water, and polished with a 
chamois, and they are ready for use. Glass and china fill 
the places on the summer sideboard that the silver pieces 
occupy in the winter. Many careful housekeepers also 
put away their solid flatware for the summer, using plated 



Care of Silveirware and Cut Glass 21 

instead, which can go to the porch to be used for outdoor 
meals, where it does not need the careful handling that 
silver would demand. 

Horn, celluloid, wood, and bone salad spoons and forks 
are designed for summer use instead of the silver, and are 
also labor savers. The glass jam and jelly spoons are also 
heavy enough not to break easily in washing, and are good 
to use for outdoor feasts. Japanned wood, glass and wicker 
trays also are varied enough to please all fancies, and are 
very acceptable substitutes for the silver winter trays. 

These few changes will eliminate silver cleaning from the 
siunmer household duties, and if the same precedent is 
followed with regard to the bric-a-brac and odd decorative 
household features the housekeeper may enjoy a vacation 
at home. 

Care of Cut Glass 

Cut glass, while it is very nice to own and see glittering 
on the china closet shelves, is one of the greatest household 
cares. It is very heavy and must be stored away in a closet 
where the shelves are prepared to carry its weight safely, 
and the grooves in which it is to stand must be deep 
enough to insure its not slipping. It cannot be washed 
like ordinary ware for it scratches, and it gets dull if not 
properly polished. And it should never be rinsed under 
the running water, as the ever-changing temperature 
might shiver it to a thousand pieces without an instant's 
warning. 

To wash it properly use a wooden dish tub, fold a linen 
dish towel in the bottom, half fill the tub with good warm 
water to which add a quarter of a cup of ammonia, and use 
any good white soap, a soft brush, and a lintless cloth. 
Rinse with fresh warm water and dry on a soft towel, and 
polish with a soft chamois or white tissue paper. 

To clean the insides of carafes and long stemmed or 
necked bottles, jugs, or pitchers, let soak with a grated raw 



22 Care of Silver-ware and Cut Glass 

potato, the inside skin of an egg, or salt and lemon juice. 
Buckshot if used with great care sometimes aids in the 
removal of vinegar or wine stains. 

Every contact with grease should be avoided with cut 
glass pieces, for it makes it cloudy and dull, and almost 
impossible to polish, as one may see if it is used for a butter 
dish. The brushes used in cleaning the crevices should be 
of the softest bristles, as the harsh ones would leave scratches 
that could never be erased. It is really more care to look 
after and keep in order than silverware, for that accepts 
its polishing and more or less rough handling, with never a 
thought of breaking, but the glass, with the natural de- 
pravity of fragile objects, will watch for its chance and just 
break without apparent provocation and without giving 
the owner the slightest warning of its intention of so doing. 



MEASURING TABLES 

60 drops = I teaspoon. 

3 teaspoons = i tablespoon. 

4 tablespoons = }4 oi a cup. 
53^ tablespoons = a J^ of a cup. 
8 tablespoons = a 3^ of a cup. 
16 tablespoons = I cup. 

I cup = 3^ pint. 

I gill = 3^ cup. 

I pint or 2 cups of granulated sugar =1 pound. 

4 cups of sifted flour = i pound. 

I pint of water = i pound. 

1 pint of solid fat = i pound. 
10 eggs = I pound. 

4 gills = I pint. 

2 pints = I quart. 

4 quarts = i gallon. 

8 quarts = i peck. 
4 pecks = I bushel. 

3 bushels = I sack. 



23 



FOR THE HOME COOK'S IMPORTANT 
CONSIDERATION 

The absolute cleanliness of the refrigerator. Careful 
covering of milk, butter, and cheese from contaminating 
odors. The use of linen binders for covering fish, wax 
paper to cover meat, linen bags for green foods, and covered 
jars for cooked foods. 

Kitchen scales for weighing foods should be always at 
hand. Measuring cups and spoons are always a conve- 
nience. 

Long-handled forks and skimmers are a necessity in meat 
cookery. 

Kitchen scissors are needed in every kitchen. 

Zinc-covered tables with large wooden roller castors are 
convenient to move where needed at serving time. 

Wire covers are needed to cover dishes standing to cool, 
especially in warm weather. 

When buying a new garbage bucket have the inside 
painted with black enamel paint and it will not retain 
odors or coatings of grease. 



24 



PART II 
R.ecipes 



25 



CANAPES AND RELISHES 

Since the serving of the canap^ at dinner has become 
so general one cannot have too many good recipes to turn 
to if doing very much dinner entertaining. The toasted 
foundation upon which the canap6 usually rests may be 
round, square, diamond- or heart-shaped, but it must be 
daintily toasted and not dried down tough and hard. The 
best bread to use for the purpose is fine-grained bread 
(preferably homemade) two days old. 

The canap^ is served at table, preceding the soup. 

If an hors-d'oeuvre, or relish, is served in place of the 
canap6, it is sent to the drawing-room, with the cocktails, 
before the guests are summoned to the table. 

Owing to present-day popularity of the canapes and 
relishes a number are included here before the question of 
soups is considered. 

If raw oysters or clams, on half shells or in cocktails, 
are .served in place of other canapes or relishes, they are 
served at table as formerly. 

CANAPES 

Coquelle Canape 

Boil six eggs hard, chill, shell, and cut them in half 
lengthways. Take out all the yolks and put them in a little 
bowl, add to them a half saltspoon of pepper, saltspoon of 
salt, a teaspoon of Worcestershire sauce and chutney syrup, 
a teaspoon of tarragon vinegar, and enough olive oil to make 

27 



28 Canapes 

a spreading paste. Now add a tablespoon of caviar or a 
little more if liked and spread the mixture on two tiny 
oblongs of toast for a portion, lay on top of each an egg 
white half holding an oyster that has been broiled, then 
dipped in melted butter and dusted with paprika. This 
makes six portions, with two oysters to a portion. 

Clam Canapg 

Steam open enough little round clams to allow five to 
each canap6. Drain them from their liquor and drop them 
into two ounces melted butter to sautd, which has in it the 
juice of half a lemon, half saltspoon of cayenne pepper, and 
a teaspoon of chopped tarragon leaves. Spread the toast 
rounds very thinly with sardine paste, drain the clams and 
lay them on top, dust with paprika, and serve while the 
clams are warm. 

Savory Canape 

Drain one small can of button mushrooms and saut^ 
them in butter; drop in a bud of garlic, juice of half a lemon, 
and a teaspoon of Worcestershire sauce. When done drain 
again, chop them, and add to them three quarters of a cup 
of minced boiled chicken, mix and add enough mayomiaise 
to make a spreading paste, spread on toasted diamond- 
shaped slices, and garnish with sliced truffles. This will 
make ten canapes. 

Sardine and Grapefruit Canape 

Free one grapefruit from all skin and seeds, then allow 
it to marinate in light French dressing twenty minutes. 
Make a smooth sardine paste well seasoned and spread 
toast squares with the mixture. Drain the grapefruit, 
spread a little on top of the canap^ and dust with paprika. 
This will make eight canap6s. 



Canapes 29 

Pineapple and Fish Canape 

Take one pound of cold boiled codfish, flake it very fine, 
and add to it a cup of grated pineapple. Add a quarter 
saltspoon of pepper, a half teaspoon of salt, enough mayon- 
naise to bind the paste, and spread on toast hearts. Gar- 
nish with oUves stuffed with pimentos. This will make ten 
canapes. 

Liver Canape 

Boil and chop very fine a quarter pound of calf's liver; 
add to it a quarter teaspoon of salt, a quarter saltspoon of 
pepper, juice of an onion, a teaspoon of chutney syrup, a 
teaspoon of chopped chives, and enough mayonnaise to 
make a spreading paste. By way of garnish after spread- 
ing on toast rounds use an ear of the tiny pickled French 
corn. This will make six canapes. 

India Canap6 

Chop fine enough cold boiled ham to make three quar- 
ters of a cup, add to it a quarter cup of grated cheese, a 
tablespoon of chutney syrup, a little chopped red pepper, 
and a tablespoon of whipped cream. Spread on toast 
rounds and garnish with olive rings. This will make six 
canapes. 

Caviar Canape 

Allow one tablespoon of caviar and a teaspoon of grated 
onion to each canap^, add quarter saltspoon of pepper, a 
little mayonnaise. Spread the toast with the mixture and 
to garnish put a hard boiled egg in the ricer and squeeze 
a little over each canap6. 

Celery and Roquefort Cheese Canape 

Wash, scrape, and cut celery stalks into two-inch pieces. 
Work one tablespoon of butter until creamy, add two 



30 Canapes 

tablespoons of mashed Roquefort cheese, and stir until 
thoroughly blended, season highly with salt and paprika, 
mix in one tablespoon of chopped nut meats, and fill the 
inside of the celery stalks with the mixture. Serve on 
toasted fingers of bread and garnish with sliced stuffed 
olives. 

Heart-of-Palm Canape 

The heart-of-palm comes in glass bottles, ready to spread 
upon toast rounds and serve, after garnishing with a little 
chopped red pepper. A pint jar will make twelve canap6s. 

Chestnut Canape 

' Boil, blanch, and mash one quart of chestnuts. Add to 
them a half cup of grated cheese, a half teaspoon of salt, 
a tablespoon of chutney syrup, and enough whipped cream 
to soften the mixture. Spread on toast rounds and dust 
with paprika. This is sufficient for ten canapfe. 

Alligator Pear Canapi 

Pare, seed, and dice two alligator pears and let them mari- 
nate in French dressing for an hour. Prepare a thick 
slice of toast for each portion, hollow out the center, sprinkle 
with grated cheese, and let stand a couple of minutes in the 
oven to melt the cheese. Drain the pear and heap in the 
center of each slice of toast. Garnish with olives, stuffed 
with almonds. This will make six canapes. 

Mussel Canape 

Steam open enough mussels to allow five to each portion. 
Remove them from the shell, drain and cool, and allow them 
to marinate in French dressing to which a quarter bud of 
garlic and one anchovy have been added. Allow them to 
stand one hour, then drain; dip in a little finely chopped 
tarragon and lay on toast rounds, putting a little mustard 
mayonnaise on top of each. 



Canapes 31 

German Canape 

Cut thin slices of rye bread, remove the crusts, and cut 
into neat oblongs. Prepare one cupful of minced bologna 
sausage, one finely chopped dill pickle, one tablespoon of 
minced canned red peppers, and sufficient clarified butter 
to form a paste. Mix the ingredients well together, spread 
on the rye bread that has been lightly toasted, and cover 
the top thickly with chopped hard-boiled egg yolk. 

Anchovy Canape 

Take two teaspoons of anchovy paste and add a grated 
onion, a pepper chopped with six olives, a teaspoon of 
fried bread crumbs, and a teaspoon of cream cheese. Mix 
the ingredients thoroughly and add a few drops of French 
dressing until the paste is the proper consistency for 
spreading. Spread toast rounds thinly with the mixture 
and lay two olives, stuffed with anchovies, on top. 

Caviar Canape 

Make sufficient oblong toast rounds to serve one to each 
cover. Chop a little onion very fine, add to it a small por- 
tion of highly seasoned French dressing, spread the rounds 
thinly with the mixture and then a layer of caviar. Put 
cold boiled eggs into a ricer and sprinkle a little over the 
top of each canap^, latticing the top with thin strips of red 
pepper by way of a garnish. 

Shrimp Canape 

Take one pint of boiled shrimp and break them into small 
pieces with a silver fork; add to them three quarters of a 
cup of bread crumbs that have been fried in butter and 
carefully drained, a quarter saltspoon of pepper, a half 
teaspoon of salt, two tablespoons of finely minced celery, a 
tablespoon of chutney syrup, a tablespoon of melted butter, 
a tablespoon of Worcestershire sauce, and two beaten eggs. 



32 Canapes 

Pill well-buttered ramekins with the mixture, dust the top 
of each lightly with a few fine crumbs, and add a tablespoon 
of sweet cream to each. Bake twenty-five minutes and 
then set away to cool, but do not chill them. This is 
sufiicient for six canapes. 

Grape Canap€ 

To make the grape canape, wash a bunch each of Malaga 
and red California grapes, halve and seed them, and add to 
them a teaspoon of fresh chopped red pepper, two table- 
spoons of grated fresh pineapple, a tablespoon of chutney 
syrup, and enough heavy mayonnaise made without mustard 
to bind the mixture together. Heap on thin toast rounds 
and garnish with a pimento olive. This is sufficient for 
six canapes. 

Russian Canape 

This recipe makes two canapes. Mix a half cup of Rus- 
sian caviar with a tablespoon of grated onion, a half salt- 
spoon of paprika, a teaspoon of finely chopped red pepper, 
a teaspoon of chopped chives. Spread the mixture on 
toast rounds, and lay on top of each two small sardines that 
have marinated in olive oil and lemon juice for twenty 
minutes. 

Sardine Canap€ 

Cut a slice of bread for toast rather thick, trim three 
inches square, and hollow out the center. When toasted 
spread with anchovy paste, arranging sardines with trufHes 
in the center, garnish with olives stuffed with the anchovy 
paste and vinegared cherries. This recipe makes one 
canap^. 

Cucumber Canape 

Slice two cucumbers thin, let them marinate twenty 
minutes in French dressing to which the juice of an onion 



Canapes 33 

has been added, drain and add two tablespoons of 
chutney syrup. Spread on toast rounds, garnish with oUve 
rings and one tiny anchovy in the center of each. This 
makes six canapes. 

Cold Tomato Canape 

Place a thin slice of raw tomato on a round of bread, 
browned in oven, and spread with mayonnaise. In the 
center of the tomato place a small mound of finely chopped 
cabbage and celery moistened with French dressing. 
Sprinkle the top with chopped parsley. 

Asparagus Canape 

Take one cup of cold boiled green asparagus tips, cut 
them in small pieces, add to them one tablespoon of chut- 
ney syrup, and one tablespoon of bread crumbs that have 
been fried in butter and drained; put a little of the mixture 
on each toast round, putting a generous teaspoon of mayon- 
naise on top, in the center of which place a radish rose by 
way of garnish. This will make six canapes. 

Chicken Liver Canap€ 

Boil six chicken livers with a thinly sliced onion, a 
sliced stalk of celery, three cloves, and half a bud of garlic 
until they are tender; remove, drain, and chop. Strain the 
water they were cooked in; add a lump of butter, a quarter 
saltspoon of pepper, half teaspoon of salt, two tablespoons 
of tomato ketchup, and three drops of tabasco; let it come 
to a boil and thicken with brown flour and butter rubbed 
to a cream. Chop one hard boiled egg and turn it with the 
liver into the gravy; spread the toast squares with the 
mixture, garnishing with a pimento olive. This makes 
eight canapfe. 

3 



34 RelisHes 

Finnan Haddie Canap€ 

Soak finnan haddie in lukewarm water to cover, then set 
on the back of the range and let stand until the fish separates 
easily into flakes. Measure the fish and to each cupful 
allow the following ingredients: Fry half a tablespoon 
of finely chopped onion and three chopped mushrooms in 
three tablespoons of butter for five minutes. Add two 
tablespoons of flour and when this is blended in pour on 
slowly while stirring constantly two thirds of a cupful of 
milk. As soon as the boiling point is reached, add two 
tablespoons of grated cheese, the yolks of two eggs 
slightly beaten, and the finnan haddie. Season to taste 
with salt and cayenne. Cool and pile on toasted rounds of 
whole wheat bread. Sprinkle with browned bread crumbs 
and bake in a hot oven for eight minutes. Serve hot, 
garnished with bunches of crisp cress. 

Lobster Canape 

Take two cups of cold boiled lobster cut fine, one cup of 
asparagus tips, two tablespoons of bread crumbs that 
have been fried in butter and drained. A teaspoon of 
chopped tarragon leaves, one grated onion, melt one quarter 
pound of butter, add one tablespoon of ketchup, one table- 
spoon of mustard sauce, pepper and salt to taste, and six 
chopped olives. Add all ingredients, heat well, and serve 
on toast rounds, garnished with sliced olives and peppers. 

RELISHES 
AUigator Pear Relish 

Dice one alligator pear, mix one tablespoon of chutney 
syrup with the juice of a lemon, six drops of tabasco sauce, 
a teaspoon of ketchup, the same amount of Worcestershire 
sauce, and a quarter saltspoon of salt. Mix all together 
and serve in small glasses with a pimento olive on top of 



RelisKes 35 

each. This is sufficient for two people and may be in- 
creased for more by following the same proportions. 

Russian Relish 

A tempting appetizer served before a dinner is made by 
taking a half cup of Russian caviar, a tablespoon of finely 
chopped onions, and a dash of paprika ; serve on toast squares 
with sardines dressed with olive oil and lemon juice. This 
is quite Russian and unique enough to interest the experi- 
menter. 

Pickle Hors d'OBuvres 

Take enough dill pickles to allow one to a portion; peel 
thinly and scoop out in boat-shaped receptacles, slicing off 
a little section to make them set firmly. Fill the boats with 
a mixture of Duxbury clams, chopped with a little fresh 
shredded cabbage, chopped watercress, and a few chopped 
tarragon leaves mixed with French dressing, to which a 
little chili sauce has been added. Rest the boats on toast 
fingers. 

Pineapple Fingers 

Shred one small pineapple with a silver fork; add to it 
four tablespoons of French dressing, and allow it to marinate 
for twenty minutes. Then drain and chill. When ready 
to serve add a half cup of grated cheese and fold in a small 
cup of mayonnaise. Spread narrow toast strips with the 
mixture and pile, log-cabin fashion, on a silver ,plate, placing 
a small anchovy on top of each. 

Brown Bread Fingers 

Make a paste of three tablespoons of deep sea caviar, one 
grated onion, one hard-boiled egg put through the ricer, and 
enough mayonnaise to bind the mixture. Spread brown 
bread toast fingers with the mixture, laying one raw oyster, 



36 RelisHes 

that has been marinated in French dressing for fifteen 
minutes, on top of each finger. 

Among relishes that come ready prepared in bottles and 
cans there are the Madagascar relish, a mixture of heart-of- 
palm and mayonnaise; artichokes in vinegar; pHt^-de-foie- 
gras; otero, a sour spiced mixture of fruit and pickle; 
tunny fish in tomato sauce; herring roe in oil; herring 
filets, pickled; mortadelle-de-bologne, and a number of 
others, all of which may be spread upon crackers or toast 
fingers, and eaten from the fingers when passed with the 
cocktails. 

One thing to be borne in mind when preparing relishes is 
to spread the various mixtures and pastes thinly, and not 
to allow them to be moist enough to drip. 



SOUPS 

In choosing utensils for soup-making those of the simplest 
kind will be found most satisfactory. An ordinary granite 
ware kettle with a tight-fitting cover answers every purpose 
and will not be affected by the various acids from the meats 
and vegetables. If one wishes to go into more expense the 
kettles having the outside copper bottoms are better owing 
to the double protection which removes the possibility of 
btirning the contents and also induces slow boiling which is 
desirable for soup. An ordinary colander is needed for 
the first straining, and a purde sieve for finer straining, a 
large granite spoon for stirring, a long-handled fork for 
removing meat, a long-handled skimmer, a half dozen 
cheesecloth bags (these are better than flannel for they do 
not retain odors), and a granite pint cup with handle to 
add water and so on if needed. 

Soups are divided into several classes, but with the 
modem tendency towards simpler living the recognized 
dinner soup is now the thin soup, clear or with fancy gar- 
nishes, and may take the form of bouillon, consomm^, or 
any of the clear broths. The cream soups are used at 
luncheon or for a supper where they may form the only 
warm and nourishing dish. Milk soups and chowders 
make an agreeable change once in awhile but are not as 
popular as in former years. Cold and jellied soups are for 
summer use only, and are to most people things one must 
cultivate a taste for, but if liked they open a way to use 
up extra fresh fruit juice. 

Lean, juicy beef, mutton, and veal form the foundation of 
nearly all good soups, therefore it is advisable to buy the 

37 



38 Soups 

best of such pieces as the market affords. The principal 
care in making soup should be to apportion the ingredients 
right so that the flavor of one does not predominate too 
much over another. Generally a quart of water is allowed 
for one pound of meat. Bones ought always to form part of 
the ingredients of the soup pot, as the marrow is a great 
addition to the nutriment contained. If the soup meat is 
boiled simply to make stock it should be cut fine, but if it 
is to be used for the table when it is quite done, then remove 
the bone and tie the meat with kitchen tape and remove 
when done and make a rich sauce for it. This way it does 
double service. Soup should boil from two to six hours, 
according to the quantity and quality of its contents. 

Opinions differ as to the advisability of washing meat, 
but if considered best wash it as little as possible, or, better 
still, wipe it with a fresh piece of cheesecloth that has been 
wrung out of cold water. 

When the rare value of the stock pot is learned and 
appreciated in families where soups, gravies, or sauces are 
used daily there will be not only one but two such pots 
found in actual commission, one containing the red stock 
and one the white. 

SOUP STOCKS 

Red Stock 

For the making of the red stock, which is perhaps the 
most generally used, beef is the basic meat. Fresh shin 
meat is the best, though a piece of juicy round may be 
added, tied in shape with kitchen tape, and removed from 
the pot when it is done sufficiently to be used in hash or 
croquettes. The finer the bones are cracked the more 
valuable they are. They are composed of an earthy sub- 
stance to which they owe their solidity, gelatine, and fatty 
fluid or marrow, so it is necessary to crack the bones in 
order to get the richness they contain. 



Soups 39 

A fowl is an excellent addition to the stock pot in the 
way of giving it flavoring and richness. A pint of cold 
water is allowed for each pound of meat and bone; it is then 
put over the fire, where it is allowed to simmer gently, being 
carefully skimmed as the scum rises. After it has boiled 
clear and no more scum appears, add a quart can of toma- 
toes, soup vegetables carefully washed and diced, leeks, 
celery, and a half bud of garlic, two cloves, six raisins, and a 
bay leaf. Add these slowly so that the stock does not stop 
boiling entirely, add a tablespoon of salt and a half tea- 
spoon of pepper, cover tightly to prevent evaporation, and 
cook steadily four or five hours. One vegetable soup may 
be served from this first; then the remaining stock is allowed 
to cool. The grease is carefully removed from the top 
before the second use of the stock in any form it is needed; 
that which still remains should be carefully strained and 
set away for further use. 

White Stock 

Cut up four pounds of knuckle of veal, one chicken, one 
slice of ham, three carrots, two onions, celery, parsley, and a 
bunch of sweet herbs, a half teaspoon of pepper, a level 
tablespoon of salt, and lump of butter, and four quarts of 
water. Simmer gently for five hours, strain carefully, and 
when cold remove every particle of grease and put away in 
a cold place to use as it is needed. 

If one is economically inclined the chicken may be re- 
moved before it falls from the bones and minced for cro- 
quettes or creamed and the bones thrown back into the 
soup. This stock will be almost if not quite rich enough 
to jelly when cold. Any liquor in which a turkey or fowl 
has been boiled added to the stock makes it much richer and 
stronger. 

If the stock for any reason, should not be perfectly clear it 
may be clarified by heating it and adding the whites of two 
stiffly beaten eggs in a half pint of water. Skim often and 



40 Soups 

when the eggs begin to separate take the stock from the fire. 
Strain carefully through a fine piece of cheesecloth, after 
which it should be absolutely clear. 

Fish Stock 

This stock will not keep well, so can only be made a little 
while before it is used. Cut two pounds of fresh codfish 
into small pieces, slice two onions, two carrots, rind of half a 
lemon, add a bunch of sweet herbs, cover with two quarts 
of cold water. Let the stock boil gently for a half hour, 
then season with two saltspoons of salt and one of white 
pepper. Boil five minutes longer, strain, and when cold 
skim off the oily grease, using a little white blotting paper 
to get the last small globules. The stock is then ready to 
form the basis of any fish, oyster, clam, scallop, shrimp, 
lobster, or any other sort of fish soup, chowder, or pur^e. 

Vegetable Stock 

Vegetable stock to be of the best quality and flavor 
should be made of fresh vegetables. This does not mean 
that one should go out and buy all new materials, but it 
means using a definite system of saving by-products with 
this purpose in view. For instance, save all outside or 
broken lettuce leaves, all outer stalks and fresh tops of 
table celery, left over sprays of parsley and tarragon sprays 
that may have served for garnish, and after washing them 
put into a linen lettuce bag and put them in the refrigerator 
tmtil needed. Parings of tomatoes should be set aside in a 
covered bowl, with left-over vegetables that have not been 
creamed or strongly flavored, and water in which potatoes, 
onions, or other vegetables have been boiled may also be 
kept for the stock, providing it is to be made in a day or 
two. When ready to make the stock add a can of tomatoes 
to the vegetable water, then cut up the vegetables, and 
when all have been added put in enough cold water to fill 
the pot three quarters full, cover tightly, and boil slowly 



Soups 41 

for two hours. When done strain the soup carefully, add 
salt and pepper, and when cold set away to use as required. 
This stock will keep two days in summer and foiu: or five 
in winter. 

Soup Conserve 

Soup conserve is a very handy commodity for winter use; 
it can be made at any time by using canned tomatoes, though 
August and September is the best time to make it, when 
fresh tomatoes are plentiful and cheap. To make the con- 
serve take one gallon of tomatoes that have been washed 
and stemmed; one half gallon of very tender, green okra 
pods, well washed; and one pint of white onions, pared. 
Chop all together fine, then season with a half cup of salt, 
a level tablespoon of white pepper, two tablespoons of 
chutney syrup, two of Worcestershire sauce, and a table- 
spoon of very finely chopped tarragon leaves. Boil gently, 
stirring often until the mixture forms a rather stiff paste. 
Remove from the fire and turn into jars, and when cold, 
cover with melted paraffine. Set the jars away in a cool 
dry place. A teacup of this conserve added to a beef soup 
makes an excellent seasoning; or in an emergency two cups 
of the conserve may be adulterated with one quart of 
boiling water and be made into a quick dinner soup for 
four or six people. 

MEAT SOUPS 
Imperial Soup 

The following recipe is an unusual one, inasmuch as it 
calls for the combination of the two principal stocks, red 
and white: 

Take one pint of clear red stock, season to taste, and add 
five well beaten eggs to it; then pour the mixture into a 
well buttered pudding mold, place the mold in boiling 
water, cover so that no water boils into it, and let the 



42 Soups 

water boil around it steadily for one hour. Remove, cool 
slightly, and turn on to a plate; have ready a quart of white 
stock melted and seasoned, then slice down the jellied red 
stock, placing a cube or slice in each plate of the clear 
soup. 

Botullon 

Bouillon is a clear soup which is, as a rule, served in cups 
for luncheons and suppers, teas and other social functions. 
It is not considered a dinner soup. 

Take four pounds of lean beef cut in pieces and put them 
in the soup kettle with three quarts of cold water. Add a 
level tablespoon of sugar, one bay leaf, one tablespoon of 
chopped carrot, a saltspoon of cayenne, two level teaspoons 
of salt, a tablespoon of onion juice, two cloves, one blade 
of mace, and a saltspoon of grated nutmeg. Allow the 
liquid to come to boiling point slowly and then simmer for 
three hours, covered closely. At the end of three hours 
add to the bouillon a half teaspoon of celery seed, or two 
saltspoons of celery salt, or a stalk of finely chopped celery, 
with the whites of two eggs slightly beaten with the washed 
and crushed shells. Stir the bouillon well, bring it once 
more to boiling point and boil for five minutes, then strain 
through a fine sieve, then through a double thickness of 
cheesecloth that has been wrung out of cold water, and set 
aside to cool. When cold remove every particle of fat 
that floats to the surface, and add a few drops of kitchen 
bouquet. At this juncttire it is wise to taste the bouillon 
and if it needs more salt or pepper add them to taste. The 
bouillon is now ready for use. If it is to be served hot, 
heat just the quantity needed and serve with a toasted 
crouton. Many cooks add a teaspoon of sherry to each 
cup with a tablespoon of whipped cream heaped on top. 
If the bouillon is served cold it must be well chilled, or it 
may even be jellied. Bouillon is always seasonable; and 
this recipe will yield about three and a half quarts. 



Soups 43 

Consomme 

Consomm^ is a light, clear dinner soup, and is often used 
as the basis for other soups. 

Take four pounds of shin-of-beef and a knuckle of veal, 
remove the meat from the shin, and have both bones well 
cracked; put all into the soup pot with six quarts of cold 
water. Add one large onion sliced, one carrot diced, one 
stalk of celery chopped, and simmer all gently but steadily 
for four hours. At the end of that time remove the meat 
from the soup, leaving all the rest of the ingredients. Add 
a quarter cup of salt, a level teaspoon of white pepper, and 
a half teaspoon of kitchen bouquet. Continue boiling 
for half an hotir, then strain through a very fine sieve and 
then through a double thickness of cheesecloth wrung out 
of cold water. Set aside and when cold skim every particle 
of grease from the surface. The consomm6 is then ready to 
use; it may be served clear, or with any of the so-called 
soup garnishes, the recipes for the making of which will be 
found at the end of this chapter. 

Oxtail Soup 

Take two oxtails, separate them, wash and put them 
into the soup pot. Dice a small slice of ham and add it 
with three sliced onions, one leek, one stalk of chopped 
celery, a bunch of sweet herbs, parsley, a bay leaf, four cloves, 
one teaspoon of pepper, a tablespoon of salt, two table- 
spoons of ketchup, and three quarts of water. Skim the 
soup carefully as it boils, and let it boil evenly for about 
fotir hours. When done, strain and thicken slightly with a 
little butter and flour mixed to a cream. Return to the 
soup a little of the meat, which may readily be taken from 
the bones in small pieces. 

Solferino Soup 

To two quarts of well seasoned clear bouillon add the 
dumplings made in this way: Beat four eggs in a stew- 



44 Soups 

pan, add a half pint of cream, two ounces of fresh butter, 
pepper and salt to taste, and enough flour to form the 
mixture into the consistency of dough. Mold it into 
round or egg-shaped balls the size of large walnuts and fry 
them a delicate brown in butter; lay them in the bottom of 
the tureen and pour the hot bouillon over them. 

Baked Soup 

Cut one pound of bottom round in squares and put them 
in the soup pot with two sliced onions, two diced carrots, 
one oimce of rice, one pint of yellow split peas, a tablespoon 
of salt, a teaspoon of pepper, one stalk of finely minced 
celery, and four quarts of clear cold water. Cover the pot 
and place it in the oven. Allow the soup to bake for four 
hours. When removed from the oven it will be a thick 
soup which may require a little more seasoning. Serve 
with it toasted croutons. 

Potage Printanier 

Potage printanier is a popular spring soup, and it is 
made of half a pint of fresh green peas, a small bunch of 
chervil, a small bunch of fresh parsley, two heads of fresh 
lettuce shredded, two thinly sliced onions, two ounces of 
butter, the yolks of three eggs, and one pint of water, sea- 
soned to taste, and two quarts of rich beef stock. Put the 
chervil, onions, lettuce, parsley, and butter into the pint of 
water and let them simmer until tender. When done 
strain off the vegetables, leaving enough water on them 
to keep them soft and pouring the rest into the stock. 
Beat the eggs in a little pan of the water, and add it with 
the vegetables to the soup just before serving, and season 
to taste. This quantity is sufficient for eight persons. 

Soup 1 la Cantatrice 

Put two quarts of white stock into the soup pot and when 
it comes to boiling point add three ounces of sago that has 



Soups 45 

been washed in boiling water, add it gradually, and let the 
stock simmer for half an hour when the sago should be 
thoroughly dissolved. Beat the yolks of three eggs and 
add them to a half pint of boiling cream; add this mixture 
to the soup and remove from the fire, as the soup must not 
boil after the eggs have been added or they will curdle it. 
Put in a teaspoon of sugar, pepper, and salt to taste, and 
serve at once. This soup will take about forty minutes to 
make. It is seasonable all year; and this quantity will 
serve eight people. 

Mutton Soup 

Take five pounds of neck-of-mutton and put it in the 
soup pot with three quarts of cold water. Add three 
carrots and three turnips, diced; two onions, sliced; a small 
btmch of sweet herbs, a bunch of parsley, cut fine; a table- 
spoon of salt, and a half teaspoon of pepper. Let it come 
to boiling point, then let it simmer until the meat is tender. 
When the meat is done remove it to a dish and place where 
it will keep hot. Strain the vegetables and put them over 
the meat. Remove the grease from the soup, season a 
little bit more, and thicken slightly with a little butter and 
flour rubbed to a cream. Just before serving, a wineglass 
of sherry may be added to the soup if desired. This is 
sufficient for eight people. Send the meat and vegetables 
to table on a hot platter, garnished with toast sippets. 

Mock Turtle Soup 

Select a good, fresh calf's head, have the butcher split it 
and unhinge the jaws, remove the tongue and brains. Wash 
and scald the head thoroughly, and place it in the soup 
pot with three quarts of cold water. Add one thinly 
sliced carrot, one onion cut in half and stuck with eight 
cloves, a small bunch of sweet herbs, a stalk of chopped 
celery, and a teaspoon of tarragon leaves. Add the tongue 
and allow all to come to boiling point, then simmer gently 



46 Soups 

until the tongue is done. When tender remove the tongue, 
skin and trim it, and throw the skin and trimmings back 
into the soup; dice the tongue and set aside until needed. 
Continue boiling until the cheeks and meat about the 
head is tender; when tender remove the head and take off 
all the meat, throwing the skin and bones back into the 
soup; the meat from the head may be set aside for cro- 
quettes; or to be served with any kind of well liked sauce. 
Now add to the soup a tablespoon of chutney syrup, a 
tablespoon of Worcestershire sauce, a saltspoon of red 
pepper, a level tablespoon of salt, and continue cooking 
slowly for twenty minutes. Then strain carefully through 
a fine sieve, and then through two thicknesses of cheese- 
cloth wrung out of cold water. Set to cool and when cold 
remove every particle of grease, using white blotting paper 
to get the smallest particles. When ready to use reheat, 
add the diced tongue, a thinly sliced lemon with the seeds 
removed, and a wineglass of sherry when it comes to boiling 
point. Serve at once. The brains may be blanched, par- 
boiled, and used for fritters. 

Pot-au-Feu 

Select one and a half pounds of bottom round, roll and 
tie, and put into the soup pot with three and a half quarts 
of clear, cold water. Add three ounces of cracked shin- 
bone, a tablespoon of salt, and let come to a boil. As soon 
as the scum rises add a quarter of a pint of cold water and 
remove the scum with a skimmer. Repeat this process 
three times; after the third time the soup should be clear. 
Wipe the edge of the kettle with a clean cloth, and add to the 
soup two small carrots, diced ; two good sized onions, thinly 
sliced; eight leeks cut in small pieces, a half cup of chopped 
celery, one clove, one white turnip, diced, and one small 
parsnip, diced. Let the soup boil up, then set aside to 
simmer for three hotirs. Remove the meat and add more 
seasoning if the soup needs it. Skim off all grease and 



Soups 47 

serve. If desired a little of the meat may be cut into small 
pieces and added to the soup, though the meat is generally- 
served with a specially made gravy. This will be sufficient 
SOUR for six people. 

Mexican Soup 

Take four pounds of bottom round and put in the soup 
pot with four quarts of cold water. Add two large onions, 
sliced; two carrots and six potatoes, diced; one small cab- 
bage coarsely chopped; three white turnips, diced; one 
quart of string beans, broken ; and one quart of young peas 
in the pods, carefully washed. Also add corn cut from six 
ears, or, a large can of corn. Boil the soup until the meat 
is thoroughly done, about four hours. When done remove 
the meat, and strain the soup, putting the vegetables over 
the meat. Return the soup to the kettle and add to it six 
chili peppers that have been sauted in butter, two slices of 
pickled pork, diced and fried a delicate brown, and thicken 
with two tablespoons of browned flour mixed with two 
tablespoons of melted butter. Place the meat, sliced, 
and vegetables in the bottom of the tureen, pouring the 
soup over them. Serve very hot. This is sufficient for 
eight people. 

Petite Maixoite Soup 

Petite marmite is one of the most expensive soups On the 
. bill of fare, usually costing sixty cents a plate. It may be 
purchased at one dollar a pint jar, ready for use, but it is 
much nicer to make it at home after this authentic and 
reliable recipe: Put in an earthen pot called "marmite" 
two pounds of short ribs of beef cut into two-inch-square 
pieces, six small pieces of oxtail, one two-pound fowl cut in 
pieces, and one gallon of red stock. When it has boiled 
ten minutes skim thoroughly and add half a bud of garlic, 
half a pound of carrots, a quarter pound of turnips and a 
quarter pound of leeks, all diced, one onion stuck with 



48 Soups 

cloves, and a heart of celery thinly sliced. Boil for three 
hours, then serve with toasted sliced rolls. This quantity 
will serve ten covers, or two dinners for a small family. 

Hodge-Podge 

Put two pounds of shin-of-beef in the soup kettle with 
three quarts of water, and one pint of ale; simmer for fifteen 
minutes, then skim carefully. Add two sliced onions, two 
diced carrots, two diced white turnips, a finely chopped 
stalk of celery, a tablespoon of salt, and a saltspoon of 
pepper. Stew gently until the meat is quite tender. Re- 
move the meat, cutting a small quantity of it in small 
pieces and returning it to the soup (the rest of the meat 
may be used for croquettes). Make a thickening of butter 
and flour, and thicken the soup slightly. Serve hot. This 
quantity will serve twelve people, and the soup is season- 
able the year round. 

Scotch Mutton Broth 

Select a thick neck of mutton, wash, and cut into small 
pieces; put into the soup kettle with two quarts of cold 
water. Boil ten minutes, skim thoroughly, and add one 
sliced onion, a diced turnip and carrot, a cup of chopped 
celery, one bay leaf, a saltspoon of pepper, and a level tea- 
spoon of salt. Cover closely and cook slowly for two hours. 
Plain soup dumplings are good in this broth. 

FISH SOXJPS 

Fish soups are used more by English people than Ameri- 
cans, but they make an excellent variety, especially in hot 
weather when the meat soups become too heavy and heating. 

Eel Soup 

Wash and cut into thin slices three potmds of eels, put 
them into a stewpan with two ounces of butter; let them 



Soups 49 

simmer for ten minutes, then pour over them two quarts of 
water; add a bunch of sweet herbs, one onion, a blade of 
mace, a saltspoon of pepper, and a level teaspoon of salt; 
simmer until the eels are tender; be careful not to break the 
fish; take them out carefully and mix two tablespoons 
of flour with a quarter of a pint of cream ; bring all to a boil 
and turn over the eels; float toasted croutons on the top 
of the soup in the tureen. This is sufficient for six persons. 

Skate Soup 

Clean and filet one skate, cut the filets two inches square. 
Boil the head and trimmings of the fish with two sliced 
onions, parsley, salt and pepper, and two quarts of water; 
cook until reduced one half, then strain. Brown two ounces 
of butter, adding a little flotir to thicken the soup; put in 
the filets, and after boiling fifteen minutes add a dessert- 
spoon of ketchup, and one wineglass of sherry. Season to 
taste and serve with toast squares. This will serve six 
people. 

Deep Sea Scallop Soup 

Take one quart of deep sea scallops, wash them carefully, 
dry them, and cut them in small pieces. Put two quarts of 
rich milk on the fire in a soup pot, add the cut scallops, and 
let stew until the scallops are tender. Add the juice of one 
large onion, a saltspoon of celery salt, a half saltspoon of 
pepper, a level teaspoon of salt, and thicken to the thick- 
ness of cold honey, with butter and flour rubbed to a paste. 
Just before serving, add a pint of hot sweet cream. Serve 
with it tiny toast fingers. This will serve six persons. 

Small Scallop Soup 

Take one pint of fresh scallops; turn them into a pint of 
hot milk and stew for fifteen minutes. Drain and add a 
pint of hot cream to the milk with the juice of an onion, 

4 



so Soups 

a quarter saltspoon of pepper, a level teaspoon of salt, and 
four drops of tabasco; thicken slightly with butter and 
flour rubbed to a cream; return the scallops to the soup; 
add a tablespoon of finely chopped parsley and serve with 
toasted croutons. This will serve six persons. 

Crab Meat Soup 

To one quart of fish stock add three quarters of a pound of 
fresh crab meat, a half cup of dry bread crumbs that have 
been fried in butter and well drained, a saltspoon of pepper, 
a level teaspoon of salt, and a dessertspoon of chutney 
syrup. Dissolve a tablespoon of cornstarch in half a cup 
of nilk; add it to the soup. When the soup boils up add a 
cup of sweet cream and serve at once. This will serve six 
people. 

Oyster Soup 

Scald twenty-five oysters in their own liquor; when the 
beards curl remove the oysters. Add to the liquor a cup of 
clear water. Make a thickening of one tablespoon of 
butter and floiu:, dilute it with a little of the oyster liquor, 
and add it to a large cupful of boiling cream. Mix this 
smoothly with the remaining oyster liquor, add the oysters, 
a half saltspoon of pepper, the same quantity of salt, and 
let all heat, but the soup must not boil. Wipe the inside 
of the tureen with a bud of garlic, turn in the soup, and 
serve. This will be sufficient for six people. 

Plain Oyster Soup 

Drain the liquor from one quart of oysters and add to it 
an equal amount of milk, a tablespoon of butter, a salt- 
spoon of salt, and half the quantity of pepper. When this 
mixture boils up add the oysters, which have been care- 
fully wiped dry. Let the soup cook three minutes, when it 
is ready to serve. It is wise to make this soup in a double 
boiler, for milk burns quickly. This is sufficient for six people. 



Soups 51 

Clam Soup 

Select twenty-five round clams, wash carefully, and pour 
over them, in a saucepan, one pint of water; steam them 
open and let them steam ten minutes. Remove the clams 
from the shells, chop them, and drain all the Uquor back into 
the saucepan. Strain the liquor through a piece of cheese- 
cloth wrung out of cold water to remove all sediment. 
Heat in a double boiler one quart of milk, add the hot 
clam juice to it, and thicken very slightly with a half table- 
spoon of butter and a half tablespoon of flour rubbed to a 
cream. Add the clams; and season the soup with a salt- 
spoon of salt and a half saltspoon of pepper. Serve at 
once. This is sufl&cient for six people and may be prepared 
in half an hour. 

Botiillabaisse 

Have fileted six pounds of fish, two of cod, two of had- 
dock, and two of halibut; put them in the soup kettle with 
three and a half pints of water, two cloves, three thinly 
sliced onions, a tablespoon of chopped parsley, a half a 
bud of garlic, three chopped shalots, two diced carrots, one 
bunch of sweet herbs, a teaspoon of salt, a saltspoon of 
pepper, a saltspoon of allspice, and a bay leaf. Cover the 
pot closely and boil for twenty-five minutes. Carefully 
remove the fish with a skimmer, drain, and remove any 
pieces of vegetable that adhere to it. Then lay the fish 
in a dish covered with a napkin. Add to the soup a tea- 
spoon of powdered saffron and strain the soup into the 
tureen. Serve the fish at the same time as the soup, with 
sippets of fried bread. This soup will take one hotu: to 
prepare and is sufficient for six persons. 

Lobster Soup 

Wash one good-sized lobster, then plunge it into three quarts 
of boiling water and let it boil for twenty-five minutes. 



52 Soups 

Remove, cool, and pick out the meat. Throw the empty- 
shells back into the water, first cracking the small claws. 
Dice the meat of the tail and large claws, and set the meat 
aside. The small pieces of meat from the body put back 
into the stock with a thinly sliced onion, a cup of chopped 
celery, and a bunch of sweet herbs. Boil until the liquid 
is reduced one half. Then strain very carefully, through 
sieve and cheesecloth, season to taste with pepper, salt, and 
a tablespoon of Worcestershire sauce. Mix to a cream a 
tablespoon each of butter and flour, and thicken with it one 
pint of boiling cream. Add this slowly to the hot lobster 
stock and when thoroughly mixed add also the diced 
lobster. Pour over a round of toasted bread in the center 
of each soup plate allowing a small portion of lobster to 
each plate. This is sufficient for six people and will take an 
hour or more to make. 

Clam Bouillon, or Broth 

Wash thoroughly fifty round clams and steam them in a 
pint and a half of clear, cold water. When done remove 
the clams from the shells, draining all liquor back into the 
saucepan. Strain the liquor carefully when it is ready for 
use, with the addition of such seasoning as is liked. The 
clams may be used in patties, fritters, be scalloped or 
creamed. 

Salmon Soup 

Take one pound of freshly boiled salmon, remove all 
skin and bone, and flake ; or use one can of salmon, carefully 
drained, boned, skinned, and flaked. Take one quart of 
the water the salmon was boiled in, a quart of clear water if 
canned salmon is used, and add to it the skin and bones of 
the salmon, one sliced onion, a chopped stalk of celery, one 
clove, one slice of lemon, one tablespoon of chutney syrup, 
and a small bunch of sweet herbs. Boil all gently for 
twenty minutes, then strain. Have ready one pint of 



Soups 53 

boiling cream, thicken it with a tablespoon of flotir and a 
tablespoon of butter rubbed to a cream, and slowly add the 
salmon stock to it. When hot add the salmon, and pepper 
and salt to taste. Serve at once with toasted croutons. 
This is sufficient for six people and takes about an hour to 
prepare. It is seasonable all year. 

Shrimp Bisque 

Shell and break in pieces one quart of freshly boiled 
shrimp. Take one quart of fish stock, heat, and when 
hot add to it a pint of hot cream, the shrimp, and seasoning 
to taste. Let all come to boiling point and serve. The 
stock may be prepared in the morning, after the recipe 
previously given, and the soup may be prepared in half 
an hour; it is sufficient for six people. 

Green Turtle Soup 

This soup is rather expensive and is a great deal of 
trouble to make. For a private family a ten- or fifteen- 
pound turtle will be large enough. The day before making 
the soup cut its head off with a sharp knife and hang it 
up by the tail to bleed. In the morning separate the upper 
from the lower shell with a sharp knife, being very careful 
not to cut the gall bladder. Cut the meat from the breast 
in thick slices, then remove gall and the entrails. Detach 
the fins and remove the green fat and set it aside with the 
breast meat. Put the shells into the soup pot with three 
quarts of cold water, and simmer gently until the bones 
may be easily removed. Strain the water off the shells and 
place it in another pot with the head, liver, heart, and all 
the other flesh, a half pound of lean ham, a btmch of sweet 
herbs, a bay leaf, one onion stuck with cloves, a tablespoon 
of chopped tarragon leaves and the same amount of parsley. 
Cook all gently until the meat is done, then strain the 
mixture; dice the meat and return it to the soup. In a 
separate saucepan saute in four ounces of butter a chopped 



54 Soups 

onion, add to it a pint of madeira wine, and let it come to 
boiling point. Add this to the soup and thicken slightly 
with smoothly mixed browned flour. At serving time add 
two hard-boiled eggs chopped fine, juice of two lemons, 
and another cup of the wine. When all is hot serve. 

Lobster Bisque 

One can of lobster, two cups of milk, three pints of 
boiling water, one tablespoon of butter, one half cup 
fine cracker crumbs, salt and pepper. Chop the lobster 
rather coarsely, taking care not to tear it. Put boiling 
water, salt, pepper, and lobster into a saucepan and cook 
gently forty minutes. Have ready scalded milk in which 
the crumbs have soaked twenty minutes. Stir in butter, then 
milk and crumbs ; set in hot water for five minutes and serve. 

Lobster Puree 

Boil two fresh lobsters and when cold remove from 
their shells. Use all the pickings of the body, legs, and 
the two big blunt claws, chopping or mashing the meat 
fine and placing it in a quart of cold water with a bunch 
of chopped fine herbs, a stalk of chopped celery, a diced 
carrot and one potato, a grated onion, one tomato, and a 
half bud of garlic; let this boil gently for one hour, add pepper 
and salt to taste. Strain when done, add one pint of hot 
milk and a half pint of cream, thicken with butter and 
flour rubbed to a cream, and add the finely minced tails 
and big claws, then a tablespoon of ketchup and a dash 
more pepper and salt if needed. Serve with crisp finger 
roUs. 

CHOWDERS 

Martha Washington Chowder 

Cut several slices of pickled pork very thin and try them 
out dry in the chowder pot. Then put on top of the pork a 



Soups 55 

layer of sliced codfish, then a layer of thinly sliced onions 
and thickly sliced potatoes, then another layer of the 
fish, then a layer of onions and potatoes, putting plenty of 
pepper and salt between each layer. Next split some hard 
crackers, dip them in water, and put them around the sides 
of the pot and over the top of the chowder. Then turn in 
cold water enough just to cover the chowder and set on the 
fire. Stew evenly for half an hour until the potatoes are 
done and then add a gill of melted butter and a cup of sweet 
cream and it is ready to serve. This should be sufficient 
for six people. 

Snapper Chowder 

Place a layer of thinly sliced pickled pork on the bottom 
of the chowder kettle and lay on it three slices of red snapper 
cut half an inch thick, then a layer of potatoes sliced half 
an inch thick, one thinly sliced onion, dusting of pepper 
and salt, and little lumps of butter; then another layer of 
fish, then potatoes, onion, and seasoning with plenty of 
butter. Put in one pint of sweet milk, one pint of water, 
and a half teaspoon of hot Southern sauce. After the 
chowder has boiled gently for twenty minutes add six 
hardtack crackers or pilot biscuit, and just before it is done 
add a cup of cream in which an egg has been beaten; let it 
boil up once and serve. This should serve eight people. 

Maryland Chowder 

Take one potmd of salt pork, cut into strips, and soak it in 
hot water for five minutes. Put a layer of this pork in the 
bottom of the chowder pot. Then cut four pounds of 
codfish or sea bass into pieces two inches square and put a 
layer of these over the pork; next a layer of chopped onions 
seasoned with summer savory, and a dusting of pepper and 
salt. On top of the onions put a layer of split crackers that 
have been buttered; then another layer of the pork, and so 
on imtil the materials are used up. Pour in barely enough 



56 Soups 

water to reach to the top of the fish, cover and stew gently 
for one hour, being careful the water does not sink below 
the upper layer. If it does, replenish carefully with a little 
boiling water. When the chowder is thoroughly done take 
it out with a perforated skimmer and put it into a tureen, 
add a little cream to the gravy, and thicken it with a little 
butter and flour rubbed to a cream. Boil it up and pour 
over the chowder. Serve sliced lemon, pickle, or stewed 
tomatoes with the chowder. 

New England Clam Chowder 

Place in the bottom of the chowder kettle slices of pickled 
pork and allow the kettle to get hot enough to melt and 
start the pork to cooking. Then cover the pork with a 
layer of soft, clams. Next put in a layer of thinly sliced 
potatoes, then a layer of thinly sliced onions sprinkled with 
pepper; then cover with hardtack that has been buttered. 
Next put in another layer of clams, then potatoes, onions, 
pepper, and buttered hardtack, and so on until the materials 
are used. Butter extra hardtack enough to lay around 
the edge and then turn over it the clam juice and enough 
sweet milk barely to cover the chowder. Cover and cook 
gently for one hour, seeing that it does not boil below the 
top. If it does add a little hot milk. When ready to serve 
ttim a cup of hot cream over it. 

Fish Chowder for Eight 

Boil, mash, and pass through a colander six potatoes. 
Slice and fry brown six onions, soak quite soft two ship 
biscuits, dice and fry four slices of salt pork. Cut two or 
three pounds of cod, sea bass, or blackfish (whichever are at 
their best) into inch-thick pieces and proceed as follows: — 
Put four tablespoons of butter in the pot with two of 
salt, then put in the ingredients in layers, freeing the fish 
from the bones, and season with a teaspoon of black 
pepper, half a teaspoon of grated nutmeg, half a tea- 



Soups 57 

spoon of cloves, and a bouquet of thjrnie. Then pour in 
fish stock enough to cover all about four inches. Place on 
the fire and then add the biscuit and pork, also three table- 
spoons of chopped parsley. Cook slowly one hour. Add the 
juice of a lemon, and five lumps of sugar. When ready to 
serve it, add a tumbler of good sherry. 

Lobster Chowder 

Lay in the bottom of the chowder saucepan on the rack 
three medium slices of pickled pork, then a one-inch slice 
of fresh cod, then a layer of sliced potato and a grated onion, 
a dusting of pepper and salt, and little lumps of butter, a 
layer of pilot crackers, then one of cold boiled lobster cut 
into small pieces, another of pilot crackers, then a layer of 
the cod, and proceed in this way, making the lobster the last 
layer, with plenty of butter and a dusting of pepper and 
salt over the top. Pour over a pint of milk, adding just 
enough water to cover all, and boil for forty minutes, slowly 
but steadily. Just before serving add a half pint of hot 
cream. Have ready a tablespoon of chopped parsley and 
a finely chopped red pepper; sprinkle a teaspoon over 
each portion as it is served. 

Fish and Oyster Pie, an English Chowder 

Take two pounds of cold boiled codfish. Free it from 
skin and bones and put a layer in the bottom of a well 
buttered baking dish. Then put in a layer of oysters on 
top of the fish with pepper, salt, and a layer of bread crumbs, 
and proceed in this way until the dish is full. Dust the 
top with a grating of nutmeg and one teaspoon of finely 
chopped parsley. Lattice the top with strips of pie crust, 
making one a little heavier which is put around the edge of 
the dish to act as a seal. Before putting on the top pour 
in a little melted butter, the oyster juice, and a cup of 
cream or thin white sauce. Bake from a half to three 
quarters of an hour. 



58 Soups 

Beefsteak Chowder 

Cut a slice of salt pork into small bits, with one onion 
minced fine; cook until a nice brown; add one quart of 
boiling water, let simmer five minutes, then add one pound 
roimd steak cut into strips one half inch thick and two 
inches long; bring this quickly to a boil, then simmer until 
the meat is tender; add four or five pared and sliced pota- 
toes, season with salt and pepper, add more boiling water, 
and when potatoes are tender add one and one half cupfuls 
of good rich milk or cream ; split six or eight crackers, put 
into a soup dish, and pour the chowder over them, serving 
at once. 

Com Chowder 

Dice two slices of fresh pickled pork, heat until they 
begin to fry in the bottom of the chowder kettle, then add 
one large sliced onion, six sliced potatoes, and the com cut 
from twelve ears; also add a level tablespoon of salt and a 
level teaspoon of pepper, and cover the mixture with clear 
cold water. Boil for thirty minutes, then add six pilot 
crackers that have been buttered on each side, boil all 
fifteen minutes more, add a tablespoon of sugar and one 
cup of hot cream. This will be sufiicient for six people. 

Potato Chowder 

Dice six good-sized potatoes. Dice a quarter pound of 
pickled pork, and slice one onion thin. Put the onion and 
pork into a frying pan and fry a delicate brown. Put into the 
chowder kettle a layer of potatoes, then a layer of onions 
and pork, sprinkle with a little salt, pepper, and chopped 
parsley; repeating in layers until the potatoes are used up. 
Pour over the grease the pork and onion were fried in, and 
add one pint of water. Cover and simmer for twenty 
minutes. Mix one tablespoon of butter and one of flour to 
a cream. Heat one pint of milk, or light cream, hot; 



Sovips 59 

thicken It with the butter and flour, then stir it into the 
chowder, being careful not to break the potato dice. Serve 
very hot. This is sufiicient for six people. 

POULTRY AND GAME SOUPS 

Chicken Botiillon 

Select a short, thick, tender fowl; cut it in pieces after 
washing, drawing, and singeing, and put in the soup pot 
with two quarts of cold water, a half cup of chopped celery- 
tops, a blade of mace, a teaspoon of sugar, a saltspoon of 
pepper, and a teaspoon of salt. Cover the kettle; bring to 
boiling point and skim carefully. Simmer gently for two 
hotirs and a half. At the end of that time remove the 
chicken from the soup, strip the meat from the bones, 
throwing bones and skin back into the soup. The white 
rneat may be set away for salad; the dark meat may be 
creamed. Let the soup simmer for half an hour longer, 
then add to it the beaten whites and shell of two eggs; 
bring once more to boiling point, then strain. When cold 
remove every particle of grease, and heat as needed. This 
recipe should make a little more than two quarts of bouillon. 
It may be more highly seasoned, if desired, as it is used. 

Soup k la Reine 

Select one four-and-a-half-pound fowl, have it cleaned 
and jointed, and put it on to cook in two quarts of white 
stock. After cooking for one hour take out the chicken and 
remove the bones, then pound the meat with one ounce of 
sweet almonds in a mortar very fine. When well beaten 
put back into the stock with the crumb of two French rolls. 
Let simmer one hour, then rub through a fine sieve and add 
a half pint of hot cream, a teaspoon of sugar, a teaspoon of 
salt, and a saltspoon of pepper. Serve hot. If the soup 
is to be warmed over do it in a double boiler, for then the 
delicacy of the soup is not lost. This is sufficient for eight 
persons. 



6o Soups 

Duck Giblet Soup 

Take three sets of duck or goose giblets, scald and cut in 
small pieces, put in a stewpan with an oxtail, a two-pound 
soup bone from shin of beef, one shank of mutton, gener- 
ous bunch of soup greens, and allow them all to simmer 
in three quarts of water until the giblets are tender. When 
finished take them out and lay them in the bottom of the 
tureen, strain the soup, season, and thicken slightly with 
butter and flour mixed to a cream, and pour over the giblets, 
adding a cup of port wine and two tablespoons of mush- 
room ketchup. 

Chicken Giblet Soup 

Scald three sets of chicken giblets and cut the gizzards 
into small pieces; put them in a soup pot with an oxtail, 
small shin of beef, and a finely cut up soup bunch, with an 
extra onion added. Add three quarts of water, boil until 
the giblets are tender, then take them out, lay them in the 
tureen, strain the soup, and thicken it with a little butter 
and flour; add a wineglass of port wine and pour over the 
giblets and serve. 

MuUagatawny Soup 

Slice six onions thin and brown them in butter, lay four 
slices of bacon in the stewpan, and lay a jointed fowl on 
them to brown quickly. When brown add the onions, two 
quarts of stock, a teaspoon of salt, and a saltspoon of pepper, 
and let cook until the meat is tender. When the meat is 
done rub together one ounce of sweet almonds that have 
been pounded, and a tablespoon of curry powder with a 
little of the stock; add this to the soup with a tablespoon of 
chutney syrup and serve with a spoon of boiled rice in each 
dish. The chicken when done is usually stripped from the 
bones, cut fine, and put back into the soup, but it may be 
removed entirely if desired. 



Soups 6i 

Pheasant Soup 

Joint two pheasants, dice two slices of ham, flour them, 
and braise them in butter until they are a nice brown. 
Then put them into a stewpan with three quarts of stock, 
two sliced onions, a half bunch chopped celery, a teaspoon 
of salt, and a saltspoon of pepper, and simmer for two 
hours. Strain the soup and pour it over the crumb of two 
French rolls and the diced breast meat. Add two hard- 
boiled eggs sliced and serve. 

Chili-Con-Came (Mexican Heavy Soup) 

Cut in squares a half pound of lean beef, a quarter pound 
of veal, and a quarter pound of pork. Strip the meat from 
the bones of a two-and-a-half -pound chicken. (The chicken 
bones may be added to the stock pot.) Put the meats 
together in a stewpan with two chopped onions, four 
chopped pimentos, one quart of canned red kidney beans 
that have been passed through a sieve. Heat in a pan one 
oimce of butter, two tablespoons of olive oil, and a gill 
of tomato sauce, and when melted together turn over the 
mixture. Put all into a buttered baking dish, dust the top 
with white pepper, cover, and cook one hour. When done 
turn over an ounce of melted butter and serve at once. 
At Mexican dinners there are two soups usually served, a 
thick one and a thin one; the latter is generally made of 
cereal or fruit delicately flavored, while the heavy soup is 
hearty and very highly seasoned. 

Broth Royale 

Wash and cut fine one three-stalk btmch of celery and 
put it in the soup kettle with a sliced onion, two bay leaves, 
two cloves, five quarts of chicken broth, and six pair of 
chicken feet skinned and cracked. Season with a tablespoon 
of salt and a teaspoon of pepper, and let cook gently for two 
hours. Strain the broth through a napkin, into another 



62 Soups 

saucepan, let it come to a boil, and sprinkle in two ounces 
of tapioca, stirring while adding it, and let boil ten minutes; 
it will then be ready to serve. 

Belgian Pigeon Soup 

Clean, cut up, and fry three pigeons, remove the breast 
meat and cut into squares, throwing the rest into two 
quarts of white stock with the bones, one ounce of chopped 
ham, and one small minced onion. Thicken slightly with 
butter and flour creamed together, strain, add the diced 
meat, and one cup of boiled peas and a glass of white wine. 
Serve with toasted croutons. 

Turkey Soup 

Take the remains of a roast turkey, bones and all, and put 
them into two quarts of white stock. Let them cook, 
adding a stalk of celery and an onion, until the bones are 
clean, then strain and set aside. Remove all grease as it 
arises; when clear, return it to the soup kettle, and, when 
hot, season with a tablespoon of Worcestershire sauce, a 
tablespoon of mushroom ketchup, a saltspoon of pepper, and 
a tablespoon of salt, and thicken with two ounces of rice 
floiur or arrowroot that has been mixed smooth with a little 
of the soup. 

Rabbit Soup 

Take one good sized rabbit, skin and clean it, wash, and 
cut into pieces. Fry one sliced onion in two tablespoons of 
butter; when a golden brown add the rabbit, each piece 
dipped in flour. Cover closely for five minutes, then add 
one pint of boiling water and one quart of hot red stock 
that is well seasoned. Cover again and allow all to simmer 
gently for one hotir, seasoning to taste. Remove the rabbit 
pieces, strip the meat from the bones, and cut into dice. 
Return the dice to the soup with two hard-boiled eggs 



Soups 63 

diced, four cloves, one thinly sliced lemon, and a wine 
glass of madeira wine. Serve at once. This is sufficient 
for eight people. 

VEGETABLE SOUPS 

Soups made of vegetables, while more trouble to prepare 
than meat soups, require less time in the cooking. The 
fresher the vegetables and the better their quality, the 
more perfect will be the soups made from them. All 
vegetables should be carefully washed and looked over to 
see that no dirt or insects are lodged in the leaves; also to 
make sure that no fertilizer or spraying mixture remains. 
In seasoning vegetable soups, though the quantities of salt 
and pepper are usually given, it is always safer to taste 
the soup, as vegetables at diiferent stages of maturity give 
off different degrees of salts and acids. 

Vegetable Soup 

To three pints of red stock add one pint bottle of mac^- 
doine vegetables, after draining, one grated onion, one cup 
of finely chopped celery; season the soup to taste after it has 
boiled forty minutes. Serve hot with the vegetables in it. 
This will serve six people. If one has time a fresh soup 
bunch, containing all the vegetables, may be washed and 
diced into the stock in place of the mac^doine vegetables. 
In this case the soup will have to cook gently but evenly 
for a full hour. 

Pea Soup 

Take one cup of yellow split peas, wash carefully, and 
put on to cook in a three-quart pitkin with two quarts and a 
pint of water. Slice thinly one large onion and add with 
two slices of diced pickled pork. Cover and cook slowly 
for four hours, stirring occasionally. Add a teaspoon of 
salt and a saltspoon of pepper. If the soup boils too thick 
a little more water may be added. Taste before serving 



64 Sovips 

for more seasoning may be needed. Just before sending 
to table a gill of hot cream may be added, though it is not 
necessary. 

Green peas may be used in the same way, though gener- 
ally if they are used the soup is thinned to the consistency 
of heavy cream by the addition of a cup of hot milk. 

Fresh Asparagus Soup 

Wash and boil one bimch of green asparagus until very 
tender. Drain but save a pint of the water. Rub through 
a pur6e sieve, add the water and one cup of hot, rich milk, 
a lump of butter, a quarter saltspoon of pepper, a half tea- 
spoon of salt, and thicken slightly with butter and flour 
mixed to a paste. Just before serving add a cup of hot 
cream and pour over toast sippets in the bottom of the 
tureen. Chop enough tarragon leaves to make a table- 
spoon, and sprinkle over the top of the soup. 

Canned Asparagus Soup 

Take one can of asparagus tips, cut the tips one inch 
long, and stew fifteen minutes in clear water. Take the 
ends and add with a soup bunch consisting of parsley, one 
onion, one carrot, and a stalk of celery, to one pint of white 
stock. Boil until flavor is extracted from the vegetables, 
strain and add to one quart of heated milk, thicken with 
two tablespoons of flour and one tablespoon of butter, 
which have been molded together, add seasoning, the tips 
drained out of the water, and serve with toasted bread 
squares. 

Artichoke (Jerusalem) Soup 

Put three slices of lean bacon into a stewpan with four 
ounces of butter, half a bunch of celery, one onion, one 
turnip, all cut fine, and braise them a quarter of an hour, 
keeping them v^ell stirred. Wash and pare four pounds of 



Soups 65 

artichokes, add them to one pint of white stock. When 
these have stewed down to a pulp, add two quarts of white 
stock, a teaspoon of sugar, a quarter saltspoon of pepper, 
and a half teaspoon of salt, simmer five minutes, and strain. 
Pour back into the pan and simmer five minutes more. 
Add a half pint of boiling cream, and serve with sippets 
of bread fried in butter. 

Cucumber Soup 

Pare, quarter, and remove the seeds from two cucumbers, 
cut in thick slices, and cover with boiling water to draw 
out the poison. Let them stand ten minutes, then have 
ready two quarts of white stock, add the cucumbers, and 
boil slowly until very tender, adding a bunch of sweet 
herbs. Strain and season and add a gill of cream, in 
which two eggs have been well beaten. Serve at once with 
toast sippets. 

Fresh Com Soup 

Split the grains of one dozen ears of com, then scrape them 
down with the back of a knife. Throw the cobs into the 
saucepan with enough water to cover them and let them 
boil ten minutes; then strain the water, saving one quart. 
Add to it slowly one quart of cream, then the corn; let it 
come to the boiling point, then boil slowly fifteen minutes, 
add a quarter saltspoon of pepper, a half teaspoon of salt, 
a tablespoon of sugar, and thicken to the consistency of 
cold honey with a little butter and flour rubbed to a paste. 
Serve at once. 

Creole Gumbo 

Creole gumbo is made by adding to three tablespoons of 
melted butter one pepper, two onions, half a cup of raw 
ham, and half a cup of raw veal. Chop all very fine and, 
stirring well, cook for six minutes; then add two quarts of 



66 Soups 

hot stock and salt and pepper to taste, cooking it for thirty 
minutes. Skim well and add one tablespoon of rice, cover, 
and boil twenty minutes; then add twelve well trimmed 
and sliced okras, two sliced tomatoes, and one and a half 
teaspoons of Worcestershire sauce. Boil for thirty minutes, 
skim, and serve in hot tureen. 

Chantilly Soup 

Boil until tender one quart (or two cans) of green peas. 
Add to the peas a sliced onion and a bunch of parsley. 
Have ready two quarts of white stock at boiling point, put 
the peas through a pur6e sieve, and add with the seasoning 
to the soup. Do not let the soup boil after adding the 
peas or it will injure the color. 

Fresh Pea Soup 

Shell two quarts of fresh peas and put them in a stew- 
pan, cover with water, and boil until they are very tender; 
then drain them, saving a cup of the water they were 
boiled in, and rub them through a pur6e sieve. Take a 
tablespoon of butter, a saltspoon of pepper, salt to taste, 
and a teaspoon of sugar, moisten with a little of the water, 
and mix to a smooth paste ; then add slowly, stirring all the 
time, one pint of hot cream. If the soup seems too thick, 
heat the rest of the cup of water and add it. Have ready 
little croutons that have been toasted in the oven to serve 
with the soup. 

Parsnip Soup 

For parsnip soup, pare and slice six parsnips of medium 
size. Melt in a stewpan three ounces of butter, add the 
parsnips, pepper and salt to taste, and stew until they are 
tender. If they absorb the butter too rapidly add a half 
cup of beef stock. When they are tender add a pint of 



Soups 67 

stock and boil together for half an hour. Pass through a 
sieve, add a pint more stock, boil and season, thicken 
slightly, and add a tablespoon of tomato ketchup, pepper, 
salt, a tablespoon of sugar, and a tablespoon of chutney- 
sauce. Let cook three minutes, then strain. When cold, 
remove all particles of grease and serve with a teaspoon 
of finely chopped cold boiled carrot in each cup. 

Scottish Soup 

For eight persons, use a good sized leek, trim and wash it 
and cut it into Julienne pieces one inch long; saute in butter 
until it is a delicate brown, then add three pints of water, salt 
and pepper to taste, one quart of potatoes, washed, pared, 
and diced, and a third of a cup of pearl barley. Let all 
cook slowly together for two hours. Just before serving, 
thicken slightly with two ounces of melted butter and flour 
rubbed to a cream. Serve very hot with toast squares. 

Lentil Soup 

Boil a half pound of lentils in three pints of water, add 
two cups of potatoes cut into small dice, the juice of one 
onion, salt and pepper to taste; when the potatoes are done, 
thicken with browned flour stirred in cold water enough to 
make a thin batter. 

Sorrel Soup 

Take a handful of sorrel, saut6 it ten minutes in a spoonful 
of fresh butter, add a quart of water, a half teaspoon of 
salt, a saltspoon of pepper, and simmer half an hour over a 
slow fire. Stir in white of an egg, cook two minutes, 
stirring constantly. Rub in a cup the yolk of an egg with 
a small piece of butter, add a cup of cream, and stir all 
together. Cover the bottom of the tureen with toast 
squares. When ready to serve pour in the soup and sprinkle 
a little finely chopped chervil over the top.. 



68 Soups 

Okra Soup 

For the soup take one can of tomatoes or one pound of 
fresh tomatoes and one pound of okra, which must be care- 
fully washed and cut into slices. Take also one sliced onion, 
one bud of garlic, two tablespoons of chopped parsley, and one 
quart and a half of chicken broth and one slice of pickled 
pork diced. Cover the soup pot closely and boil until the 
okra is thoroughly done. Season and add one cup of hot 
cream just before serving. Serve all the vegetables in the 
soup. 

Onion Soup 

Cut up four large onions and brown them in six ounces 
of butter for two minutes; add a half teaspoon of salt, 
quarter saltspoon of cayenne, and a quart of stock; cook 
slowly one hour, then add a large cup of hot milk with two 
beaten eggs and stir in quickly. Lay in the bottom of 
the tureen toasted bread squares sifted with Parmesan 
cheese and turn the soup over them. 

Potato Soup 

Cut six large white potatoes into small cubes and throw 
them into cold water. Wash carefully a complete soup 
bunch of all the needed greens ; cut it fine, and add one can 
of niushrooms, or a half pound of fresh ones careftilly 
pared and washed. Put all into the soup pot and boil 
one hour; then add slowly a pint of good, drawn butter 
and serve with toast squares or tiny rolls. 

Potato Soup 

Boil six potatoes and mash them smoothly and gradually 
add them to two quarts of boiling white stock; season well 
and pass through a sieve; heat and serve with toast squares. 



Soups 69 

Mushroom Soup 

Take a cupful of dried mushrooms, thoroughly wash and 
soak them for a couple of hours, then put them in a double 
boiler with a pint of cold milk and let them simmer until 
they are puffed up; then add a pint of hot milk, a gill of 
cream, a saltspoon of pepper, a half teaspoon salt, a table- 
spoon of Worcestershire sauce, and a tablespoon of chutney 
syrup; thicken all by adding a little butter and flour mixed 
to a paste, but do not make the soup too thick. 

Mushroom Soup 

Take one can of button mushrooms, drain, cut in half, 
saut6 in butter, pepper and salt to taste, for five minutes, 
then add gradually a pint of white stock, the juice of an 
onion, a quarter bud of garlic, a tablespoon of mushroom 
ketchup, a tablespoon of Worcestershire sauce, and add 
gradually another pint of stock. Thicken slightly with a 
little browned flour and butter creamed together, let boil 
up until the right consistency, remove from the fire, and 
add a cup of hot cream. 

Fresh Tomato Soup 

Take one dozen fresh smooth tomatoes and chop them 
fine, chopping with them a stalk of celery, two onions, two 
peppers, and a bunch of fresh sweet herbs. Add a half 
slice of lean ham and cover with a quart of cold water. 
Boil evenly for an hour, then add a little cornstarch to 
thicken the soup slightly. 

Vegetable Marrow Soup 

Pare and slice four medium marrows, cover them with 
two quarts of white stock ; let them boil until they are very 
tender, then strain and press them through a pur^e sieve, 
add quarter of a saltspoon of pepper, half teaspoon of salt, a 
teaspoon of sugar, a grating of nutmeg, and the juice of an 



70 Soups 

onion. Just at serving add a half pint of hot cream. 
Toast sippets that have been fried in butter and carefully- 
drained are nice with this soup. 

Spinach Soup 

Take two quarts of white stock, season and thicken very 
slightly, and add, just before serving, one cup of hot cream. 
Have ready three quarts of spinach that has been carefully 
washed, boiled, chopped fine, well drained, seasoned with 
a saltspoon of pepper and a half teaspoon of salt, and 
a teaspoon of melted butter, and molded into balls the size 
of English walnuts. Arrange the balls in a tureen or allow 
two to a portion, and turn the hot soup over them. 

Pomeranian Soup 

Wash and boil until very tender one quart of white beans. 
Remove half of the beans and set aside; put the rest with 
the soup through a pur^e sieve. Heat the soup again, 
adding the juice of an onion, a half cup of chopped celery, 
and the seasoning, put in the remainder of the beans, and 
boil fifteen minutes. If the soup seems a bit thick, add a 
little hot cream and serve. Little toast squares are nice 
with this soup. 

Russian Bortsch 

Select two pecks of tender beets, wash and cut them in 
quarters, and place them in a wooden half barrel, or tub, 
with sufficient tepid water to cover them. Stir them and 
remove the accumulated scum from time to time, allowing 
them to stand from ten to fifteen days to ferment and 
become sour. They should then be drained and the liquid 
boiled until it is perfectly clear, skimming carefully. It is 
then bottled and is ready for use as a soup stock, or the 
Russians use it also for a beverage. When ready to make 
the soup take two quarts of the bortsch and add to it a 



Soups 71 

pound of diced beef, a small slice of diced ham, and a diced 
pork tenderloin; wash and dice a soup bunch and add. 
AUow it to cook until all the ingredients are done; season 
to taste and serve with the ingredients left in it. 

CREAM SOUPS AND PUREES 

Cream soups and purees are more especially suitable for 
luncheon and nursery use, and are often included in the 
various invalid and meatless diets. They require the greatest 
care in preparation, for they burn easily, thicken and grow 
pasty if allowed to stand and cool after they are ready, and 
are not attractive to reheat and use again. Therefore it is 
wise to make only the quantity that is needed for one 
serving. Only the sweetest of milk and cream, best butter, 
freshest eggs, and perfectly matured vegetables carefully 
washed and prepared, and fruit ■ in perfection should be 
considered in their making. Cornstarch, arrowroot, rice, 
banana, or one of the new vegetable flowers will be found 
the most delicate thickenings for these soups. There 
should also be a double boiler and fresh granite saucepan 
devoted to these soups, so they are not cooked in vessels 
that retain strong flavors and exude greases of other foods 
that have been cooked in them. 

Cream of Asparagus Soup 

For cream soup, wash, trim, and scrape the stalks of one 
bunch of asparagus, cut the "heads" one inch long and boil 
separately till done, then drain and set aside. Cut the 
rest into inch pieces, cover with one pint and a half of 
boiling water, and cook until very tender, adding a quarter 
of a saltspoon of salt and the jtiice of one small onion. 
Strain and mash through a sieve, add a pint of hot milk 
and half a pint of cream, thicken with butter and flour 
rubbed to a paste, add the asparagus heads, season to taste, 
and serve with toasted croutons. 



72 Soups 

Aguacate Cream Soup 

To a rich cream soup that has been flavored with sweet 
herbs, add one aguacate pared and seeded and cut into very 
small pieces, just as the soup boils up for the last time before 
serving. Select ripe aguacates (alligator pears) for soup 
use as they will have a better flavor. 

Com Puree 

Split the grains of one dozen ears of corn and scrape 
them down, add a tablespoon of sugar, salt and pepper to 
taste, small lump of butter, a cup of milk, and a cup of 
cream; boil in double boiler for fifteen minutes, then rub 
through a pur^e sieve, and if too thick thin slightly with a 
httle hot cream. Canned com may also be used if fresh is 
out of season; one can will be equal to six ears of corn. 

Cucumber Puree 

Take one large, ripe cucumber, pare, and remove the 
seeds. Cut it into slices; wash and cut two heads of lettuce 
and place with the cucumber, in one quart of water. Add 
one onion whole and one stalk of celery, one clove, and two 
slices of lemon by way of flavoring. Boil until the cucumber 
is very tender, then remove the onion and celery and rub 
the rest through a pur6e sieve. Add a pint of hot cream, 
thicken slightly with a little butter and flour rubbed smooth. 

Puree of Lima Beans 

Soak one pound of dried lima beans over night. In the 
morning slip them from their skins and add to them three 
pints of water with a small sliced onion, two stalks each of 
parsley and celery, with a saltspoon of bicarbonate of soda. 
Cook all until very tender and until the water has boiled 
down -about one half, then put through a pur6e sieve. 
Have the following cream sauce ready to mix with the 
bean pur6e: Three tablespoons of butter and two table- 



Sovips 73 

spoons of flour creamed together well, add one pint of cream, 
a quarter saltspoon of paprika, and the same of pepper. 
Mix carefully with the pur^e, wipe the inside of the double 
boiler with a bud of garlic, turn the pur6e into it, and stir 
constantly until all is smooth and hot. Serve with toasted 
croutons. 

Cream of Celery Soup 

Boil a trimmed and washed head of celery in one pint of 
water for thirty minutes. Boil a blade of mace and a 
large slice of onion in a pint of milk; mix one tablespoon of 
flour with two tablespoons of milk; add this to the boiling 
milk, and cook for ten minutes. Mash the celery in the 
water in which it has been cooked, mix it into the boiling 
milk, and add one tablespoon of butter, seasoning with 
pepper and salt to taste. Stir well for one minute, then 
strain. The flavor may be improved by adding one cup of 
whipped cream, when the soup is put into the tureen. 
This is sufficient for four people. 

Cream of Cabbage Soup 

For the cream of cabbage soup, use one small white cab- 
bage and strip from it the outer leaves. _Cut it in half, 
remove the hard heart, and then chop it coarsely; put it 
into a large saucepan, cover it with a pint of boiling water, 
and add a teaspoon of salt, a saltspoon of cayenne pepper, 
two lumps of sugar, and a quart of hot milk. Let it stew 
gently, covered, until the cabbage is very tender, and then 
strain through a fine sieve. Add to the liquid a teaspoon 
of onion juice and thicken with butter and flour rubbed 
to a smooth cream. Boil the soup tmtil it is the con- 
sistency of honey; if it is inclined to be Itmipy, strain it into 
the tureen. Dot the surface with tiny toast squares and 
serve hot. The cabbage that has been strained from the 
soup may be put away, and the next day may be escalloped 
with crumbs and cheese for a luncheon dish. 



74 Sovips 

Pineapple Puree 

Pare and chop fine one fresh ripe pineapple, add a few 
stalks of celery, pepper, salt, and a pint of water. Let 
sinuner until the fruit is done, then put it through a pur^e 
sieve. Add to it a pint of hot cream, a teaspoon of sugar 
and paprika, mix and see that it is hot — but do not boil 
after adding the cream. If the purde seems a bit thin 
add a little butter and flour rubbed to a cream and allow 
it to come to the boiling point. 

Peach Puree 

Select two dozen large ripe peaches, pare, halve, and stone 
them, then put them in a saucepan with a pint of water; 
boil them until they are very tender, then put all through a 
pur^e sieve. Put the pulp back into the saucepan and 
add a cup of sugar, a little grated nutmeg, and a pint of hot 
sweet cream. Blend all together and serve the pur^e hot 
with toast fingers. 

Dandelion PurSe 

Take two quarts of fresh dandelion leaves and wash 
them thoroughly, then chop fine and boil them in one 
quart of water. When done (in twenty minutes) add the 
juice of an onion, a teaspoon of salt, the same of sugar, and 
a saltspoon of pepper, one pint rich milk or cream, and 
thicken with flour and butter rubbed to a cream. Rub 
all through a pur^e sieve and put in a double boiler to 
reheat, adding a finely diced hard-boiled egg. 

Pimento Bisque 

Wash and chop six red peppers, removing the seed cones 
of three, add three chopped onions and a stalk of chopped 
celery and put all in a quart of cold water. When it begins 
to boil add a half cup of well washed rice and boil twenty 
minutes. Put through a pur6e sieve and add to the mixture 



Soups 75 

one pint of rich milk or cream heated to boiling point and 
thicken with rice flour rubbed smooth in cold milk (about 
two level tablespoons, but it may not all be needed) ; stir in a 
little at a time until the mixture has the consistency of 
molasses. 

Potage Cressonniere 

Take two good-sized white onions, pare and slice thin, 
and fry in butter until a delicate brown, adding a tablespoon 
of flour and cooking three minutes longer; add one quart of 
boiling water and boil slowly. Pare and dice one quart of 
potatoes, add them to the potage with a half bunch of well 
washed watercress chopped fine. When ready to serve, 
after it has cooked for half an hour, kdd a pint of hot milk 
and four ounces of table butter creamed with two heaping 
tablespoons of lentil flotu". This will thicken the potage 
sufficiently. Serve very hot. This will serve eight people. 

Spinach Pur6e 

Wash carefully two quarts of spinach and cook until 
tender in a small quantity of water. Rub through a sieve 
and add three cups of rich stock and season to taste. Stir 
to a paste one tablespoon of butter and the same quantity 
of flour and one cup of hot milk. Add this to the soup and 
let all boil up together, stirring to keep it smooth. Serve 
with croutons. 

Parsnip Puree 

Pare and boil six good-sized parsnips until soft enough 
to mash, drain, and put them through a pur^e sieve; add 
one cup of milk in which a tablespoon of cornstarch has 
been dissolved, two tablespoons of melted butter, pepper, 
salt, and a teaspoon of sugar; mix smooth, add a half pint of 
cream, and let boil up once, stirring carefully; then add a 
half pint of hot cream. It is then ready to serve. Use 



76 Soups 

toast squares that have been fried in butter and drained, 
and rub the inside of the tureen with a little piece of garlic. 

Tomato Bisque 

Take one can of tomatoes, one onion, and a soup bunch, 
boil all together for an hour, strain, and set away to cool. 
When needed, heat to boiling point; also heat a pint and 
a half of milk and have ready butter and flour mixed to a 
paste for thickening. Put a half teaspoon of bicarbonate 
of soda into the tomato and as it foams up add the milk 
and rub in the thickening. Season to taste and serve in a 
tureen. 

Cream of Tomato Soup 

To one can of tomatoes add a well washed and diced 
soup bunch, a pint of cold water, and cook thirty minutes; 
strain and set aside. Just before serving heat a pint and a 
half of sweet milk, add to it a teaspoon of salt and a salt- 
spoon of pepper, and thicken it with butter and flour rubbed 
to a cream, adding lastly a saltspoon (heaping) of bi- 
carbonate of soda. This prepares the milk to receive the 
tomato, which should be hot and added slowly, stirring 
steadily while it is added. The cream should be made 
thick enough to allow for the thinning by the addition of the 
tomato. This is sufficient for six persons. 

Puree of Asparagus 

Take one bunch of green asparagus, wash and trim, boil 
until very tender in a quart of water, adding salt, pepper, 
the juice of an onion, and a stalk of celery cut fine; when 
very tender remove from the water and mash through a 
puree sieve; add to the pulp one cup of cream, one cup of 
milk, one cup of the water in which it was boiled, pepper, 
salt to taste, and thicken with butter and flour rubbed to a 
cream. Serve hot with toast croutons. 



Soups 77 

Cream of Lettuce Soup 

Wash thoroughly two large, solid heads of Boston lettuce, 
then shred it and cover it with a pint of cold water. Let 
boil a half hour, add the juice of an onion and a pint of hot 
milk, a half teaspoon of salt and a saltspoon of pepper. 
Thicken with a heaping tablespoon of butter and a table- 
spoon of flour rubbed to a cream. Work all through a 
pur^e sieve; reheat in the double boiler and serve. This 
is sufl&cient for six people. 

Cream of Salsify Soup 

Scrape two bunches of salsify and cut in pieces. Slice 
one onion thin and cook it with the salsify in one quart of 
water. When cooked very soft put through a purde sieve; 
season to taste, add a cup of hot cream, and, if not quite 
thick enough, it may be thickened with a little butter and 
flour creamed together. 

Cream of Beet Soup 

Boil two bunches of new beets (forty-five minutes) and 
when cool enough to handle pare and grate them. Add the 
grated beet to a pint of white stock, heat, and when hot 
add a pint of hot cream, or rich milk; season to taste, 
thicken lightly if needed, though generally the grated 
beet is sufficient thickening. Serve hot. This will serve 
six persons. 

CEREAL SOUPS 

Cereal soups are in great favor as nursery soups but are 
also liked by "grown-ups," and make quite acceptable 
changes in the daily menu. 

Macaroni is a paste made from wheaten flour and water, 
partially baked as it is forced through the cylinder or 
machine that shapes it and makes it; then it is hung up to 



78 Soups 

dry for several days. It is wholesome and nutritious and 
well deserves the place on the menu that it has won. 

Tapioca is a most excellent soup medium as well. It is 
made from the pith of the cassava tree, native to the East 
Indies and Brazil. Its nutritive properties are great and 
are especially adapted to delicate digestions. 

Rice is another grain that lends itself to cooking in various 
ways that are all most acceptable. The Hill rice, the Patna, 
and the Carolina are well known varieties. It is very 
nutritious when taken with other foods, but if eaten in 
large quantities alone it is apt to lay too long in the stomach 
and create indigestion. 

Tapioca Soup 

. Put five ounces of tapioca into two quarts of cold white 
stock and bring it gradually to a boil. Simmer for an 
hour or longer, until it is tender. Season to taste, and just 
before serving add a wineglass of good sherry and serve 
with dry toast fingers. 

Macaroni Soup 

Add to two quarts of clear stock the macaroni that has 
been fixed in the following way: — Put three ounces of maca- 
roni and a piece of butter into boiling salted water and 
boU for half an hour. Drain and cut it into short lengths or 
rings, add it to the stock with the seasoning and a generous 
sprinkling of Pafmesan cheese. It, should soak in the 
stock fifteen mintites before adding the cheese — in fact, 
in many places the cheese is added at table. 

Rice Soup 

Throw four ounces of Patna rice into boiling water and 
let it boil five minutes. Then pour into a sieve and allow 
it to drain well. Then add it to two quarts of boiling 
white stock. Add a level teaspoon of salt, a quarter of a 



Soups 79 

saltspoon of pepper, and a pinch of mace. Just before it 
goes to table put a few tablespoons of whipped cream over 
the top and serve with toasted bread sippets. 

Vermicelli Soup 

Set a three-pound chicken to boil in two quarts of red 
stock; add two slices of bacon, a bud of garlic, and an onion 
stuck with cloves. When the chicken is well done, take it 
out and strain the soup. Return it to the soup pot and, 
when it boils, add four ounces of vermicelli and the sea- 
soning; let boil for ten minutes, then add the chicken that 
has been diced, cook ten minutes more, then turn into 
the tureen and strew over the top toasted bread squares. 

Barley Soup 

Take two pounds of shin of beef, a quarter pound of 
pearl barley, and a soup bunch of vegetables, washed and 
chopped fine, and four quarts of water. Boil slowly for 
three hours; add pepper and salt to taste. When ready to 
serve remove the bones and add toasted bread squares. 

Sago Soup 

Wash three ounces of sago in hot water, add it to two 
quarts of white stock, adding one bay leaf and a lump of 
sugar; simmer for half an hour, then add the beaten yolks 
of two eggs and a half pint of hot cream; stir quickly, but 
do not let them boil, as the eggs might curdle. Serve 
immediately. Samp may be used in the same way. 

Monte Carlo Soup 

Cut six slices of stale bread, butter them very lightly with 
soft butter, and sprinkle them thinly with sugar; then care- 
fully brown them in the oven and lay them in the soup 
tureen. Take a quart of highly seasoned white stock 
and add to it a pint of hot milk and a pint of hot cream ; just 



So Sovjps 

before serving time add a tablespoon of finely chopped 
celery leaves and turn all over the toast. 

Bread Soup 

Boil one pound of bread crusts in one quart of red stock, 
adding an ounce of butter, for half an hour. Beat the 
crust up with a spoon and allow it to continue boiling until 
bread and stock are thoroughly mixed. Season with a 
level teaspoon of salt and a saltspoon of pepper. This soup 
is cheap, seasonable the year round, and this quantity serves 
four people. 

COLD AND JELLIED SOUPS 

Particularly attractive for summer serving are the 
different iced soups, or those which have been jellied. Soup 
still retains its place on the menu during the warm months, 
but often a hot soup is not desired and those served cold 
offer a pleasant variation. 

Clam Broth, Bellevue 

Make one quart of rich chicken broth, adding savory 
herbs and seasoning while it cooks; then strain and cool. 
Take one dozen and a half of Little Neck clams, wash care- 
fully, put in saucepan with one cup cold water; let simmer 
until all the clams have opened, strain the juice, and add to 
the chicken broth; when thoroughly chilled and ready to 
serve, put a tablespoon of whipped cream on top of each cup. 

Salianka 

Take a slice of codfish, the backbone of the cod, the 
bones and a few flakes of salmon, pint of water, and pint of 
white wine; add a bunch of herbs, one onion, salt and pepper; 
boil a half hour, then strain through fine sieve into service 
cups to allow it to chill and lightly jell. Serve with cucum- 



Soups 8i 

ber fingers that have been rubbed in salt to draw off their 
poison water, then rolled in powdered nuts with a dash of 
paprika. 

Essence of Chicken Madrilaine in Jelly 

Clean one three-pound fowl and joint it; add one pound 
calves' foot jelly, one bud garlic, one pound carrots, one 
pound leeks, one pound onions, six tomatoes, one teaspoon 
curry powder; add water to fiU kettle, place over the fire 
until it reaches boiling point, then draw aside and allow 
to boil slowly for two hours. Strain through cheesecloth 
and set aside to cool; remove all grease with a blotting 
paper as it rises; when cool place in icebox until needed. 
This consomm^ when properly made is clear and partially 
jellied. Serve very cold. 

Iced Clam Broth 

Take three dozen little round clams, scrub them clean, 
and place them in an enamel saucepan, covering them with 
a cup and a half of cold water. Let them steam, after 
they get hot, for five minutes or tmtil all the shells are 
open. Remove the clams from the shells, carefully strain 
the broth through cheesecloth and set against the ice to 
diilL When serving put a dash of pepper on the top of 
eadi cup and lay a wafer in the saucer. The clams may be 
covered with a little of the broth and chopped for fritters 
&r laeakfast or Itmcheon, so that they are not wasted. 

Frozen Beef Tea 

Make a good beef tea, the quantity which will be needed, 
sttan, season with salt and pepper to taste, and dissolve 
m it ooe teaspoon of powdered gelatine. Let it get cold 
and then skim off all the grease. Beat the whites of two 
e^s voy stiff, blend it with the beef tea, and freeze to the 
ooQffistency of a heavy custard or mousse. Put a dash of 



82 Soups 

paprika over each portion and place a dainty soup stick 
on the saucer. 

Cherry Soup 

Crush the juice from one pound of large ripe cherries, 
add one pint of water, one pint of white wine, and one 
tablespoon of sugar. Stew fifteen minutes, strain carefully, 
and chill; serve in cup bedded in cracked ice, with the 
relishes. 

Raspberry Soup 

Wash carefully two quarts of raspberries, add to them one 
teacup of grape juice, one teacup of water, four ounces of 
sugar, and one stick of cinnamon four inches long. Boil all 
together for fifteen minutes, skimming carefully, cool and 
chill. 

Lemon Soup 

Make a rich hot lemonade and thicken it slightly with 
cornstarch, then let it. get cold and chill. When ready 
to serve add a teaspoon of grated pineapple to each cup 
and a green Maraschino cherry. 

Orange Soup 

Make a strong lemonade of eight lemons and two oranges, 
add a cup of sugar and a pint and a half of boiling water, 
thicken slightly with cornstarch and let it cool. When 
cold add the scraped pulp of two oranges and one grape- 
fruit. Chill and serve in cups with a red cherry in each 
cup. 

Cold Beet Soup, Waldemar 

Grate eight cold boiled beets and place in a saucepan 
with a glass of white wine; boil five minutes, then strain 
through a fine cloth and set away to cool. Take four hard- 
boiled eggs, pass the yolks through a sieve and mix them 



Sovips 83 

with one pint of sour cream ; add to the beet essence, season 
well with salt and pepper, and serve in cups on ice with 
garniture of six radishes diced, egg whites cut in fine strips, 
and one cucumber which has been simmered in hot water 
five minutes, then thinly sliced. This is a most refreshing 
soup in hot weather. 

FRUIT AND NUT SOUPS 

Fruit and nut soups have nothing special to recommend 
their use other than adding a note of variety in soup offer- 
ings. America is receiving a greater variety of nuts from 
other countries than ever before and we are gradually learn- 
ing to use and appreciate them as we do the foreign fruits 
that were once only a rare luxury. 

Almonds are considered indigestible, and it is not well to 
eat too freely of them, as they contain a principle that 
produces two violent poisons, a volatile oil and prussic 
acid. They are considered least dangerous to the digestive 
organs when salted. Almond paste is the foundation of 
some of our most delicious candies, macaroons, and other 
French cookery. 

Almond Soup 

Boil four pounds of lean beef with a scrag of mutton in 
two and a half quarts of water until the meat is done and 
the gravy is rich; strain, and add eight ounces of vermicelli, 
four blades of mace, six cloves, and boil until the spices 
flavor. Blanch and pound half a pound of sweet almonds, 
mix a little soup while pounding, in order that the almonds 
may not grow oily; add the yolks of six hard-boiled eggs, 
potmd until it is a mere pulp, mix all together, strain, heat, 
and just before serving add a gill of rich cream. 

Alligator Pear Soup 

Pare and cut into small pieces four good-sized alligator 
pears ; put them in a double boiler with a pint of water and 



84 Soups 

one chopped red pepper, a quarter bud of garlic and one 
thinly sliced onion. Boil until very tender, put all through a 
ptir^e sieve, add to it one pint of hot cream, a small lump 
of butter, pepper and salt to taste. If the soup is too 
thick, thin it slightly with a little bit of milk, but leave it 
a heavy soup and serve with toast squares that have been 
fried in butter and carefully drained. 

Aguacate Cream Soup 

Make a rich cream soup in the usual way, adding a 
generous flavoring of sweet herbs. Pare one alligator pear, 
remove the seed, and cut the pulp in small pieces. As the 
soup boils up for the last time, add the pear and serve. 

Plum Soup 

Boil ioxar large tablespoons of pearl tapioca in one pint of 
water, adding to it one quart jar of canned plums; add dash 
of nutmeg, two tablespoons of sugar, if it is not too 
sweet from the canned plums; strain; add one glass of 
madeira wine. If a thicker soup is desired, dissolve one 
tablespoon of arrowroot in a gill of sweet cream and add 
to the mixture, letting it boil up only once before serving. 

Prune Soup 

Soak eight prunes in one pint of water over night. In 
the morning remove the prunes and add to the water 
one pint of stock with three thickly sliced leeks, one level 
teaspoon of salt and a quarter saltspoon of pepper. Let 
the soup simmer until the leeks are tender, then add the 
prunes; boil five minutes and turn into a tureen that has 
been wiped with a bud of garlic. Serve toasted croutons 
with the soup. 

Apple Soup 

Apple soup will be found an agreeable change once in a 
while. Peel, quarter, and core two pounds of apples and 



Soups 85 

boil in two quarts of good white stock until tender; then rub 
through a sieve, add a quarter saltspoon of pepper, a level 
teaspoon of salt, a saltspoon of allspice, and a tablespoon of 
sugar, and just before serving add a glass of madeira and 
a gill of cream. Serve with toasted croutons. 

Apple Soup 

Peel, core, and cut in pieces four sour apples, add them 
to a quart of water, the juice of one lemon, and a grating 
of cinnamon, boil until the apples are entirely soft, then 
add one third cupful of boiled sago and sweeten to taste; 
just before serving add glass of white wine and cup of 
whipped cream. 

Cocoanut Soup, Hindustani 

Grate two fresh cocoanuts and mix them with one and a 
half quarts of white stock. Simmer gently for a half an 
hour, then season with one teaspoon of salt, a saltspoon of 
pepper, strain and thicken with two egg yolks beaten with 
juice of a lemon and enough flour to make a thin batter. 
Serve with croutons that have been fried in butter. 

Cocoanut Soup 

To three quarts of white stock add six ounces of grated 
cocoanut, a quarter saltspoon of pepper, a half teaspoon of 
salt, and a half saltspoon of mace; simmer gently one hour; 
strain and add a quarter pint of boiling cream; thicken 
with six ounces of rice flour. 

Spanish Chestnut Soup 

Peel and blanch three quarters of a pound of French 
chestnuts, cover them with a quart of good stock, and stew 
them gently for three quarters of an hour; drain, pound, 
and rub them through a fine sieve; add half a teaspoon of 



86 Soxips 

salt, quarter saltspoon of pepper, a half saltspoon of mace, 
stir until it boils, then add one quarter pint of hot cream; 
serve with toasted croutons. 

Chestnut Soup 

Remove the shells from three quarters of a potmd of 
French chestnuts and put them into warm water. When 
it becomes too hot to put the fingers into it, remove the 
chestnuts from the fire and blanch them. Rinse them 
and put them on the fire in a saucepan containing a quart 
of white stock. Let them boil until they are very soft, then 
rub all through a sieve. Add seasoning and a half pint of 
cream. Keep hot, but do not boil again. Serve croutons 
with the soup. 

Brazil Nut Soup 

For the soup select one pound of fresh BrazU nuts, shell, 
blanch, and put them through a grinder. Stew them for 
two hours in three pints of water, to which add a stalk of 
chopped celery, an onion, carrot, parsley, and a leek. When 
done pass through a sieve, add a pint of boiling milk, 
thickened sUghtly with a little butter and flour rubbed to a 
cream, season, and just as it is removed from the fire add a 
cup of hot cream. Serve with toast dice which have been 
fried in butter and carefully drained. 

Marron Soup 

Take one pint jar of marrons and turn them into a sauce- 
pan with the liquor and add one quart of good vegetable 
stock. Cook gently until the marrons are soft; then press 
through a sieve, season with salt, pepper, a teaspoon of 
Worcestershire sauce, four drops of kitchen bouquet, heat, 
add half a pint of hot, heavy cream, and serve with toasted 
croutons. This soup to be at its best must be served very 
hot. 



Soups 87 

Cream of Peanut Soup 

Put one quart of milk into a double boiler and add to it 
the juice of one onion, a bay leaf, a half cup of chopped 
celery, a quarter saltspoon of pepper, a half teaspoon of salt 
and half a pint of peanut butter. Cook until all is smooth, 
then thicken with a tablespoon of cornstarch mixed in a 
little cold water. Serve hot with toasted croutons. This 
will serve four people. 

Orange Soup 

Pare and cut in pieces eight oranges and add them to one 
quart of water. Boil for half an hour, then strain, turn 
the juice back into the saucepan, and add a saltspoon of 
salt, and a half saltspoon of cayenne pepper. As it boils 
up add a half saltspoon of bicarbonate of soda, then thicken 
with a little butter and flour mixed to a cream. Remove 
from the fire and add a half pint of hot cream. Serve with 
the soup dry toast squares or croutons. 

SOUP GARNISHES 

The so-called soup garnishes include soup dumplings of 
all kinds, the various macaroni pastes which come in dijBEer- 
ent shapes, diced vegetables and vegetable balls and blocks 
and forcemeat of different sorts. Besides the toasted 
croutons, fried bread crumbs, and toasted bread squares, 
there are also the toast rings that are dipped in melted butter 
and sprinkled with Parmesan cheese. Of course the 
garnishes can only be used in clear soups. And in using 
any of the dumplings they may be boiled in fair water, 
drained, and dropped in the soup, so by their cooking they 
do not boil away and waste any of the rich soup stock. 
The diced vegetables may always be prepared in the morn- 
ing and dropped into the soup when needed. The plain 
macaroni now comes colored pink with tomato sauce, and 
colored green with spinach, which makes it decorative for 



88 Soups 

soup use. After boiling in clear water it may be cut into 
rings or short lengths, and in a plain tomato or consomm^ 
soup it is very pretty. 

Still finer than the vermicelli is the Swiss brand of the 
paste called angel tresses, which is very fine and dainty for 
use in clear soups; while for garnishing nursery soups the 
marcaroni paste alphabet is still popular. 

Croutons 

Cut sliced bread into squares, triangles, or rings; trim 
off all crusts and fry a delicate brown in butter. Drain and 
they are ready to serve. 

Plain toast squares are made by cutting large dice from 
thick slices of bread and drying them in the oven, allowing 
them to become a delicate brown. 

Toast rings are made by drying bread rings in the oven, 
then smearing them with melted butter and dusting them 
with grated cheese, to which a little pepper and salt may be 
added. 

Cracker Dumplings 

Soak six thick soda crackers in water for two minutes, 
then press dry. Fry one minced onion in butter and pour 
over the crackers; add three beaten eggs, a saltspoon of salt, 
and a half saltspoon of pepper. Beat all together and add 
enough cracker meal to be able to form the mixture into 
dumplings about the size of a large marble. Drop the 
dumplings in boiling salted water and boil ten minutes; 
drain, and drop into the hot soup. 

Austrian Potato Dumplings 

Boil five potatoes in salted water for twenty-five minutes; 
drain, cool, and grate them; add to them four beaten eggs, 
two tablespoons of melted butter, a level teaspoon of salt, 
a half saltspoon of pepper, and flour enough, sifted in, to be 



Sovips 89 

able to mold the mixture into dumplings. Fry them a 
delicate brown in hot fat, drain, and drop into the clear 
soup. 

Gennan Liver Dumplings 

Take a half pound of calf's liver, wash, and chop fine 
with one onion, add two beaten eggs, a level teaspoon of 
salt and a saltspoon of pepper, a teaspoon of melted butter, 
and enough dry bread crumbs to shape the mixture into 
balls. Drop into boiling, salted water and boil fifteen 
minutes; drain and add to the soup. 

Soup Dumplings 

Chop finely a half cupful of suet, add half cupful of flour, 
a quarter teaspoon of salt, a few drops of onion juice, 
pepper, and enough ice water to moisten the mixture. Roll 
into smooth dumplings, the size of a marble, and lay on 
floured plate. When ready, allow them to boil ten minutes 
in soup and serve. 

Coronet Dumplings 

These are also to be used in clear soup. To one pint of 
clear, rich tomato soup, add sprinkling of salt, pepper, 
nutmeg, and stir in five well beaten eggs. Pour the 
mixture into a well buttered pudding mold. Set the bowl 
into boiling water and allow it to boil one hour. Be careful 
to keep the water out of the mold, by covering it and 
not allowing the water to boil too hard. When sufficiently 
cooked, cut into balls with a potato scoop and drop into 
the soup. Allow three to each soup plate. 

Stew Dtmiplings 

The best stew dumplings are those made from bread 
dough. Pinch them off when the loaves are to be put in 



90 Sovips 

the pans and let them raise on a floured board until a half 
hour before dinner. Then drop them on the top of the 
boiling chicken or lamb stew, covering tightly with a cloth 
and the pot cover, and let them boil twenty minutes. Take 
them out, serve on a hot platter, and the stew on another 
platter, pouring on last the gravy, which has been 
thickened. 

Baking Powder Dumplings 

These are very nice for stew, but cannot equal the raised 
ones. Mix one pint sifted flour, two teaspoons bating 
powder, and half teaspoon of salt. Mix to a soft dough 
with milk, turn on the board, roll out an inch thick, and cut 
in small circles with cookie cutter. Roll in flour, drop on 
top of the simmering stew, cover, and cook twenty minutes 
without opening the pot. 

Marrow Balls for Soup 

Melt a tablespoon of marrow and strain through a cloth. 
Beat it until creamy, then add one egg, pepper, salt, and a 
little nutmeg. Beat again thoroughly, and add as much 
soft bread crumbs as the mixture will absorb. Shape in 
marbles, poach in boiling water, and put into the soup just 
before serving. 

Potato Dumplings 

These are to be served with pot roast or fricassee. Mix 
with one dozen cold boiled potatoes, grated, six table- 
spoons of flour, two tablespoons baking powder, salt, and 
nutmeg. Add a tablespoon of melted butter and three 
eggs, one at a time, mixing thoroughly. Form into balls 
about the size of a small apple, put into boiling water, 
which has been well salted, and boil fifteen minutes. Take 
out dtunplings with a skimmer and garnish the roast with 
them. 



Soups 91 

Suet Dtunplings 

Chop and free from skin a quarter of a pound of fresh 
beef suet. Add a cup and a half of flour, a half teaspoon 
of salt, a teaspoon of sugar, a dash of cayenne pepper, a salt- 
spoon of baking powder, and enough water to form them 
into small dumplings the size of marbles. Put on a floured 
plate until ready to drop them into the soup. Boil fifteen 
minutes. 

Atmond Balls 

Blanch and chop twenty-four Jordan almonds and mix 
with them a small cup of dry bread crumbs, a half teaspoon 
o£ salt, a quarter saltspoon of pepper, and the whites of two 
eggs; mold the mixture into small balls and fry them a 
golden brown in olive oil. Drain and add to the soup. 

Marrow Balls 

Take a quarter of a cup of chopped marrow and add to it 
a half a cup of bread crumbs, a teaspoon of onion juice, a 
saltspoon of salt, and a quarter saltspoon of pepper, the 
beaten yolk of one egg, and three drops of kitchen bouquet. 
Mold the mixture into small balls, dip them into the white 
of egg to seal them, and drop them into boiling water. 
Allow them to boil for two or three minutes, then lift them 
out and drop them into the hot soup. 

Forcemeat Balls 

, Take four tablespoons of any cold, chopped meat, or dry, 
boiled, cold fish, add to this four tablespoons of bread 
crumbs, a half teaspoon of chopped tarragon leaves, a half 
teaspoon of onion juice, one teaspoon of chutney syrup, 
saltspoon of salt, and a quarter of a saltspoon of pepper, 
and bind all together with the yolk of one egg. Form into 
small balls and drop them into a slowly boiling soup, and 
boil fiveminutes. 



92 Soups 

Heart of Palm Potage 

This excellent dainty comes all prepared in pint and 
quart jars and only needs heating, and the addition of a gill 
of cream to the pint and two gills to the quart, before serving. 
The potage is expensive, so is classed among the luxuries 
like the following one. 

Birds' Nest Soup 

The birds' nests are made of a mucilaginous moss by 
birds who live by the sea on the coast of China. The nests 
are hard and dry when they are imported and cost a dollar 
and a half each. To prepare them they must be soaked in 
water for forty-eight hours, changing the water often. They 
then have to be gently boiled tmtil the nests are like soft 
gelatine; they are then ready to add, one or a half one to each 
plate of clear soup. They are much the same in flavor as 
the spine of the sturgeon (vesigha) which comes from 
Russia for use, after forty-eight hours' soaking, in stews. 
This odd dainty sells at three dollars a pound. 



FISH 

Reputable fishmongers recognize but one kind, and that 
is "fresh fish." Remember this fact: Fresh fish properly 
cooked never creates illness, and is one of the most valuable 
and economical food products brought to our markets. 

In choosing fish a proof of the freshness and goodness 
thereof is in the appearance and presence of the scales. It 
is possible for a fish to be fresh and still not good. Just 
before spawning the fish are supposed to be in the best 
edible condition.^ After spawning they are "out of season" 
and not fit for table use, no matter how fresh they may 
appear. 

Fish out of season have a transparent bluish tinge when 
they are boiled, but when in season the muscles are firm 
and boil white and curdy. For instance, the codfish is at its 
best when it is plump and round at the tail, and the hollow 
behind the head is deep, and when the sides are undulated, 
as if ribbed. Another test good for cod, and other fish as 
well, is to press the finger into the side, and if the indent 
fills immediately the fish is fresh ; if not, it is stale. 

Salmon, mackerel, herring, and trout soon spoil after 
they are caught; therefore they should be eaten as soon as 
possible. Other fish may be kept a few hours if wrapped 
in a linen cloth which has been wrung out of cold water and 
placed on the ice. 

In choosing a fish it is well to note that the gills are 
red, but this is not an infallible rule of freshness. 

Fish is less nourishing than meat, for it is lighter in 
weight, size for size, and contains no osmazome. Choosing 
fish for the table is a fine art, and the housekeeper will find 

93 



94 Fish 

it greatly to her advantage to spend a few momenta with 
her fishmonger, when he is among his wares, so that he may 
illustrate. 

In choosing mackerel its bright appearance and rather 
transparent look is a good test to go by. 

The artistic garnishing of fish and the art of making 
tempting sauces are secrets to learn in fish cookery. 

If fish cookery is well studied the cook will find many so- 
called economical ways of using fish "left overs" that will 
prove delicious dishes for luncheon and breakfast; also some 
fish salads and entree dishes may be concocted in this way, 
seasoned with the left-over sauces, so that nothing goes to 
waste. Lemon, parsley, either green or fried, hard-boiled 
eggs, cold boiled beets and carrots cut in fancy shapes, 
water chestnuts, watercress, cane sprouts, fried artichoke 
hearts, fried pineapple dice, and savory rice balls are among 
the favorite fish garnishes used. 

In frying fish, instead of dipping it in egg, then in the 
fine bread crumbs, dip the fish in good olive oil, then the 
crumbs, and it will better retain its fiavor and also fry more 
evenly. 

To BoU Fish 

Fish intended for boiling should always be put on the 
fire in cold water and let come slowly to a boil; otherwise 
the outside will break before the middle is done. The boiled 
fish should be removed from the water as soon as it is cooked, 
before it grows "woolly," and placed in a fish platter over the 
kettle of hot water to keep it hot until it is sent to the 
table. Its cooking should be timed as closely as possible 
to the dinner hour. 

To Bake Fish 

In baking fish an unwritten culinary law is to let the 
head remain on, and it shotdd be basted quite as carefully 
during its cooking as a joint of meat. Fish intended for 



FisK 95 

frying must be rinsed quickly in cold water, wiped dry 
with a soft cloth, then brushed over with egg and fine 
bread crumbs, frying it in hot fat or oil deep enough to 
just cover it; when it is done drain it on white blotting 
paper. 

All fish should be placed on china or enamel plates, with 
silver or wooden forks and spoons where it is necessary. 
It should be removed at once from the butcher paper 
in which it is delivered, and wrapped immediately in 
fresh wax paper or clean linen cloth until it is needed. 
Always boil fish in an enameled fish kettle — never in tin 
or iron. 

In choosing salmon be sure that the belly is round and 
firm. The steaks cut from back of the shoulders are best for 
broiling or frying. The next cut is better for boiling pur- 
poses. The salmon is not as good baked as some other 
fish, as it is apt to bake dry, and it is also too solid a fish for 
chowder. 

Salmon are cured by splitting and rubbing with salt, then 
placing them in a brine in clean tubs for about six weeks. 
Then they are drained and packed in casks between layers 
of salt. 

In cooking or serving salmon do not use vinegar with it, 
as it discolors the fish and destroys the flavor. Plain boiled 
salmon if served hot is usually accompanied by cream sauce, 
melted butter sauce with parsley and lemon, or by a 
cucumber sauce. 

If salmon is to be served baked, to prevent it from being 
dry it should be basted carefully and very often with melted 
butter and a little white wine, which will keep it moist 
and add a rich flavqr to it. Caper sauce is often served 
with baked as well as boiled salmon. 

Salmon steaks are sometimes broiled over a steady fire on 
a well buttered gridiron, then spread with butter, pepper, and 
salt, and garnished with lemon and watercress. They are 
also rolled in egg, cracker dust, and a faint sprinkle of grated 
cheese, then fried in very hot fat. 



96 Fish 

Boiled Salmon 

Select a four-pound fish, or have a piece cut from the 
shoulders of a larger fish, rinse it in cold water, wrap it in a 
linen cloth, and put it in the fish kettle covered with cold 
water. Put into the water a bay leaf, a small sliced 
onion, two cloves, and a small strip of lemon peel. After 
the fish starts to boil let it cook evenly, but not too briskly 
for fear of breaking the meat, for twenty minutes. When 
done lift it carefully, drain, and place on a hot platter. 
Garnish with cold boiled egg quarters and sliced lemon 
with a spray of parsley drawn through each slice. Hol- 
landaise sauce, plain drawn butter, tartare sauce, or any 
good fish sauce may be served with the fish. 

Freshly boiled salmon also makes an excellent breakfast 
dish, flaked in a cream sauce with thinly sliced hard-boiled 
eggs; garnish with toast sippets. 

Salmon k la Genevese 

Place ill a stewpan a limip of butter, four tablespoons of 
madeira wine, a quarter saltspoon of pepper, a saltspoon of 
salt, two chopped shalots, two bay leaves, a half saltspoon 
of allspice, and two slices of salmon, and stew gently a 
half hour. Strain off the gravy, and add to it a half pint of 
white stock, juice of one lemon, and one teaspoon essence 
of anchovies. Simmer and thicken with flour and butter 
rubbed to a cream. Lay the fish on a hot dish and turn 
part of the sauce over it, serving the rest in a tureen. 

Salmon Fish Cakes 

Boil two pounds of salmon until tender, bone and flake 
it, and add it to six mashed potatoes (hot), a level saltspoon 
of pepper, a level teaspoon of salt, and a heaping tablespoon 
of butter; work with the hands and mold into small 
cakes one inch thick; dust with flour and fry ift hot lard to a 
delicate brown; garnish with cress. 



Fish 97 

Salmon Cutlets 

j Have the salmon cut near the shotdders in thin steaks. 

■ Trim, wash, dip first in beaten egg, then in fine crumbs, 
and fry a delicate brown. Serve a tablespoon of tartare 
sauce on each cutlet and garnish with a spray of parsley 
drawn through a slice of lemon. 

Salmon Souffle 

Flake enough cold boiled salmon to make two cups. 
Add a quarter saltspoon of pepper, a saltspoon of salt, the 
juice of an onion, two finely chopped cold boiled eggs, a 
teaspoon of chopped tarragon leaves, half a gill of melted 
butter, half a gill of cream, and the stiffly beaten whites of 
three eggs. Toss the ingredients lightly and turn into 
buttered ramekins. Bake until puffed up and delicately 
browned. 

Salmon k la Carbon 

Take one can of salmon, remove all bones, flake with a 
silver fork, and place in a mixing bowl with a saltspoon of 
salt, a quarter saltspoon of pepper, and a teaspoon of 
French mustard. Mix one tablespoon of butter and one 
teaspoon of flour and thicken a half cup of boiling milk. 
Take from the fire and add two well beaten eggs, mix all 
together, and fill scallop shells or ramekins with the mixture, 
sprinkling lightly with fine bread crumbs. Bake a delicate 
brown, serving in the shells with a spray of parsley on the 
top. 

Salmon in Ramekins 

A can of salmon will do very well. Remove from the 
can, flake, removing all skin, bone, and liquid; then place 
it in a mixing bowl, add a teaspoon of salt, one dessert- 
spoon of mustard sauce, and a quarter of a saltspoon of 
pepper; rub one heaping tablespoon of butter and one 

7 



98 FisK 

heaping teaspoon of flour to a cream, and add to a half cup 
of hot milk at boiling point. When it slightly thickens 
remove from the stove, add three well beaten eggs, and 
mix all with the salmon; fill well buttered ramekins with 
the mixture and sprinkle with cracker dust, then brown 
lightly in moderate oven. 

Deviled Salmon 

Open fotir one-pound cans of salmon, drain, and remove 
the bones, then flake finely with a silver fork. Add three 
cups of fine bread crumbs, three tablespoons of Worcester- 
shire sauce, a cup of melted butter, pepper, salt, one cup 
or a little less of fresh pineapple juice, and a half cup of the 
grated pineapple. Mix all well together, then add the 
stiffly beaten whites of three eggs. Fill scalloped shells, 
well buttered, with the mixture and bake to a delicate 
brown. Serve hot or cold, garnished with sprays of fresh 
cress. 

Baked Tile 

Select a tilefish weighing from three to five pounds and 
have it prepared for baking in the usual way. Prepare a 
highly seasoned savory stufiing of crumbs, chopped celery, 
grated onion, a saltspoon of pepper, a half teaspoon of 
salt, a dusting of sweet herbs, beaten- egg, melted butter, 
and a little tomato ketchup. Make enough of the stufiing 
so that a small portion may be served with each helping 
of the fish. Before baking lay across the openings after 
they are stuffed thin strips of bacon and pin them in place. 
Lay the fish on a well buttered riack, dust with pepper and 
salt, and baste frequently with a little melted butter which 
has a little lemon juice in it. When the fish is done slide 
it to the platter and garnish with slices of broiled potatoes 
around the edge of the dish, and thin slices of lemon with 
little bunches of parsley drawn through them. Strain the 
dish gravy from tmder the fish and add to it one cup of 



FisH 99 

strained tomato juice, ttdcken slightly, and serve in a tureen 
with the fish. 

BroUed THe 

Have the slices for broiling cut the same as for steaks, 
sprinkle them with a little salt and pepper, brush them over 
with olive oil, and broil over a clear fire for about seven to 
eight minutes, on each side. When delicately brown put 
on a hot platter and turn over the slices a little melted 
butter that has a few drops of onion juice, lemon juice, 
pepper and salt in it. Garnish with lemon quarters and 
parsley. 

Tilefish Cakes 

Boil two pounds of tile, drain and flake it. Have boiled 
and mashed ten white potatoes. Mash the fish with the 
potato, add two tablespoons of butter, season with a salt- 
spoon of pepper and a teaspoon of salt, and add enough 
sweet cream to make the mixture light enough to shape 
into cakes. Fold in the whites of two stifiiy beaten eggs 
and mold the cakes by hand into fish-ball size. Dust 
them with flour and fry in deep hot fat. When done 
drain and serve with a little slice of delicately fried bacon on 
top of each cake. Garnish with fresh cress. 

Tile Turbot 

The boiled fish, served with drawn butter in the usual 
way like cod, will make an excellent dinner fish, and what 
is left over may be utilized for a luncheon turbot the next 
day. For the turbot, flake the fish and put a layer in the 
bottom of a well buttered baking dish, next put in a layer 
of fine crumbs with a little chopped onion and celery, and a 
little of the drawn butter if there is any left. Proceed in 
this way until the dish is full. Dust with pepper and 
salt, add a teaspoon of sugar and turn in a cup of sweet 



100 FisK 

milk, a gill of melted butter, and a half cup of sweet cream. 
Bake until it is a delicate brown, about half an hour usually, 
and serve hot. 

FUet of Tfle 

Cut the fish in filets, dust with pepper and salt, and roll 
them in flour; dip them in beaten egg, then roll them in 
bread crumbs. Fry in deep fat a delicate brown, drain, and 
serve garnished with lemon and parsley. Have a sauce 
ready to put over them of tomato, highly seasoned and 
very smooth. Serve it in a hot tureen. 

Tilefish Rataplan 

Take three pounds of fresh boiled fish, drain and flake it 
while still hot. Have ready twenty-five oysters that have 
been sauted in butter. Turn them over the fish and over all 
turn a rich cream sauce. Garnish with toast sippets and 
parsley, dust the top with paprika, and serve very hot. 
This is a very elegant fish dish for special occasions. 

Escalloped Tile 

Flake two cups of the cold boiled fish, add a half cup of 
bread crumbs, a half cup of grated cheese, a half gill of 
melted butter, pepper, salt, a teaspoon of chopped tarragon 
leaves, the juice of an onion, a tablespoon of Worcestershire 
sauce, and the beaten white of one egg. Fill well buttered 
ramekins with the mixture and bake until the fish is a 
delicate brown. 

Broiled Shad 

Select a fresh medium-sized shad and have it carefully 
scaled and split. If it is thick enough an expert fishman 
can remove the backbone, which is a decided advantage. 
Rinse and dry the fish, then place it on a platter and cover 
it with the following warm mixture and let it stand twenty 



Fish loi 

minutes : Juice of one onion, juice of half a lemon, a salt- 
spoon of pepper, a half teaspoon of salt, a gill of melted 
butter, three cloves, a teaspoon of Worcestershire sauce, 
and a quarter gill of white wine. Butter the gridiron well, 
drain the fish, and lay it skin down on the broiler; broil over 
a steady fire. Turn it only long enough to brown slightly, 
then slip it onto a hot platter and dust with pepper and salt 
and butter well; strain and heat the sauce in which the fish 
marinated and add to it a teaspoon of fennel seed. 
Serve in a small ttireen. Garnish with broiled potatoes, 
parsley, and lemon quarters. 

Baked Shad, Vegetable Stuffing 

Prepare one good-sized shad for baking, leaving the head 
on. Take one pint of vegetable mac^doine, boil three 
minutes, then mash through a sieve; add one beaten egg, 
a half teaspoon of salt, a saltspoon of pepper, juice of an 
onion, three tablespoons of melted butter, three of 
cream, and a tablespoon of chutney syrup. Beat well 
together and add enough fine bread crumbs to hold it 
together; fiU the fish not too full, then sew it up and use 
the rest of the stuffing in the head. Lay the fish on a well 
buttered rack, basting with a little melted butter, salt, 
pepper, lemon juice, and a tablespoon of madeira wine. 
When done lay on a bed of fresh cress on a hot platter and 
garnish it with hard-boiled egg rings and capers. Strain 
the gravy from the dripping pan and add it to a good cream 
sauce. Stir in thoroughly, but do not let it boil. 

Planked Shad 

(Recipe for the planking of any fish) 

Prepare the shad in the usual way for planking, have the 
plank ready heated, and fasten the fish, skin side down, 
using glass thtmibtacks to hold it in place. The fish 
must be often tested with a fork to see if it is light and 



102 FisH 

flaky. When done, butter freely, sprinkle with pepper 
and salt, garnish the edge with mashed potato put through 
the pastry bag, parsley, and lemon quarters. 'Deviled' 
eggs are also used as decorative garnish. 

Shad Cakes 

To two cups of flaked boiled shad add two cups of mashed 
potato, a tablespoon of butter, a level saltspoon of pepper, 
a half teaspoon of salt, one beaten egg, and enough sweet 
cream so that the mass can be molded by hand into cakes 
of the usual fish-cake size. Fry a delicate brown in hot fat, 
and serve on a hot platter with a broiled slice of bacon on 
top of each cake, and garnish with a little fresh cress. 

Creamed Shad with Asparagus 

Free from bone two cups of cold boiled or broiled shad, 
make a rich cream sauce not too heavy, dice into it one cold 
boiled egg and the fish. Take the tender stalks of freshly 
boiled asparagus cut in small pieces and add to the mixture. 
Have ready slices of toast arranged upon the platter, turn 
the fish over them, and garnish with sprays of fried parsley 
and the yolk of a hard-boiled egg, that has been put through 
the ricer, sprinkled over the top. 

Escalloped Shad 

To the meat of one boiled lobster cut very fine add two 
cups of boned cold boiled shad. Butter a deep baking 
dish, place a layer of the fish and lobster in the bottom, then 
a layer of bread crumbs, dot with butter, sprinkle with 
pepper and salt, then another layer of the shad and lobster, 
then the crumbs, butter, pepper, and salt, and so on until the 
dish is filled. Beat one egg in one cup of milk, turn into the 
mixture, add a gill of cream, dust the top with pepper and 
salt and two tablespoons of grated English cheese. Bake, 
and when done serve in the dish in which it was cooked, 
placed in a silver container or wrapped in a napkin. 



FisH 103 

Shad Peppers 

One cup of cold boiled flaked shad, one cup of crab meat, 
small grated onion, half a cup of chopped celery, gill of 
melted butter, gill of cream, a saltspoon of salt, a half 
saltspoon of pepper, and tablespoon of grated cheese. Fill 
half green pepper shells with the mixture, place in well 
buttered baking dish, and bake a delicate brown. Serve as 
an entree for dinner. 

Shad Creole 

Boil one medium-sized shad. When done skin, bone, and 
flake; then add two eggs beaten in one cup of milk, three 
quarters of a cup of bread crumbs, a saltspoon of pepper 
and a half teaspoon of salt, juice of an onion, gill of melted 
butter, gill of cream; slice thin two medium-sized cucumbers, 
plunge them into boiling water for ten minutes, drain, 
slightly cool, add to the fish mixture; butter ramekins, fill 
them with the mixture, dust the top of each with a little 
grated English cheese, and bake. Garnish with a slice of 
lemon through which a spray of parsley is drawn. Use as an 
entr6e or for the fish course. 

Savory Shad Roe 

Wash and parboil one shad roe, putting it on in cold 
water and letting it slowly come to a boil, then let it boil 
until it is done (fifteen to twenty minutes), but not broken to 
pieces. Drain and cool. Slice one cucumber thin, plunge 
into boiling water and let stand for ten minutes, drain, 
and while it is cooling make a very small quantity of cream 
sauce, put in the cucumber, add a saltspoon of pepper and 
half a teaspoon of salt, one grated onion, one teaspoon of 
fennel seed, teaspoon of Worcestershire sauce, two table- 
spoons of sherry. Now, with a very sharp knife, split the 
roe and put in the filling, using all of the solid portion. 
Have a small, well buttered baking dish with a cover that 



104 FisK 

fits, and place the roe in it; turn the rest of the sauce over 
the roe, sprinkle with a few bread crumbs, dust with pepper 
and salt, and cover in the oven until all is thoroughly hot, 
cook ten or fifteen minutes, take off cover and brown. 
With great care place it on the platter without breaking and 
garnish with a little fresh cress and olive rings. 

Belgian Stuffed Shad 

Carefully split a thick shad and remove the backbone. 
Make a savory stuffing of a cup of bread crumbs, one cold 
boiled egg, chopped, one minced onion, one minced red 
pepper, a teaspoon of chopped parsley, a half gill of melted 
butter, and a teaspoon of chopped savory herbs. Add one 
beaten egg; mix the stuflfing well; spread the lower half of 
the shad; place the upper half over it; dust it with pepper 
and salt; turn over two cups of strained tomato juice, and 
bake, basting often. When the shad is done remove it to a 
hot platter; add a cup of savory stock to the dish gravy, 
thicken slightly with a little butter and flour mixed to a 
cream, and strain it over the shad. 

Baked Red Snapper 

Have a five-pound red snapper cut and fixed for stuffing, 
leaving the head on. Wash the fish careftilly, dust with 
pepper and salt, and place it in a well buttered baking pan 
on a few slices of pickled pork cut very thin. Make a 
savory stuffing of half a cup of shredded x:old boiled lobster, 
— the rest of the lobster may be used for salad, — one cup of 
bread crumbs, half saltspoon of pepper, a half teaspoon of 
salt, a teaspoon of powdered savory herbs, a half teaspoon 
of hot Southern sauce, one beaten egg, two tablespoons of 
fresh grated pineapple, and half a cup of melted butter. 
Mix well and stuff the fish, leaving room for the stuffing to 
swell and placing what is left over in the head. Place a 
cup of water in the baking pan, cover the fish for fifteen 
minutes, and then baste with melted butter to which has 



Fish 105 

been added the juice of a lemon, a little white wine, and a 
tablespoon of fennel seed. Baste often until the fish is 
done, which will be about forty minutes, remove carefully 
to the serving platter on which has been arranged a bed of 
cress, and garnish the edge of the platter with stuffed baked 
peppers and toast sippets. Place on the fish the white 
rings of hard-boiled eggs; make a rich cream sauce, not too 
thick, straining into it the dish gravy from the baking pan 
and coloring it a delicate green with Breton vegetable coloring. 

Planked Red Snapper 

For planking a small snapper must be chosen one not 
weighing more than three pounds. Prepare it in the usual 
way, adding to the melted butter which is turned over it 
two tablespoons of madeira wine in which a small spice 
bag has stood for an hour, a saltspoon each of salt and 
pepper, a half teaspoon of sugar, and a tablespoon of pine- 
apple juice. Before serving garnish the edge of the plank 
with mashed potato roses done with a pastry bag and 
fresh green peas that have been steamed in their pods. 

Snapper k la Carbon 

Flake a pound and a half of cold boiled red snapper, 
and to it add one cup of fresh boiled and shredded shrimps, 
three quarters of a cup of finely minced bread crumbs, the 
juice of one onion, a dusting of pepper and salt, half a cup 
of melted butter, and a cup of cream. Mix lightly and fill 
buttered ramekins with the mixture, grating a little old 
English cheese over the top of each ramekin. Bake to a 
delicate" brown in a medium oven and serve with hot finger 
roUs on the side. Garnish with a spray of watercress. 

Snapper Chops 

Flake a pound and a half of boiled red snapper, add to it 
one cup of flaked crab meat, three quarters of a cup of 



io6 FisK 

bread crumbs, one grated onion, two tablespoons of melted 
butter, a saltspoon of pepper, a half teaspoon of salt, three 
drops of tabasco sauce, two beaten eggs, a gill of cream, and 
two tablespoons of tomato ketchup. Mix all thoroughly 
and shape into chops. If the mixture should be too moist 
add a few more dry bread crumbs. Roll the chops in 
beaten egg, then in fine crumbs, and fry them in hot fat. 
When done drain carefully and stick in each a pastry 
stick three inches long to represent the bone. Pile on a 
platter garnished with fried parsley, slices of broiled potatoes, 
and lemon cut in quarters. 

Snapper k la Newburg 

Flake one pound and a half of cold boiled red snapper, 
drain and dry one pint of oysters, add them to the fish, 
add a saltspoon of pepper, a heaping saltspoon of salt, four 
thinly sliced truffles, a teaspoon of onion juice, one anchovy, 
and six pitted and thinly sliced olives. Make the New- 
burg sauce in the usual way, add the other ingredients, 
mix thoroughly, and allow them to boil up for two minutes 
in the chafing dish, when it will be ready to serve. 

Codfish Broiled and in Balls 

Salt codfish comes to market in several forms, but the 
big whole fish is by far the best to buy. It makes the best 
fish balls, and when a portion is soaked over night and 
delicately broiled it makes a most inviting breakfast dish. 
The fish comes also cut in square pieces and packed in 
boxes, and is less trouble in this form than the big fish, 
but it has not quite as good flavor. That which is desic- 
cated is usually flat and tasteless. The whole fish will cost 
fitfty or sixty cents and will yield one breakfast broil and 
two breakfasts of fish cakes. These are made by adding 
six or eight mashed potatoes to the fish, with a heaping 
tablespoon of butter, a gill of cream, and one egg. The fish 
should be soaked over night, then scalded and simmered 



FisK 107 

gently until tender, but not allowed to boil, then flaked, 
freed from skin and bones, and mashed, when it is ready 
for the potato and seasoning. 

Curried Codfish 

For the curried codfish for two persons take two large 
slices; for four persons, increase in proportion; flake them 
and fry in three ounces of butter and one grated onion. Then 
put in a stewpan with a teacup of white stock, thicken 
slightly with butter and flour creamed together, stir in a 
quarter of a pint of cream, season to taste, and let it boil up 
once and serve. To the stock in which the cod is stewed 
add a small spoonful of ctirry powder and let it simmer for 
an hour the day before serving, thus very much improving 
the flavor. Garnish with broiled potatoes and fried parsley, 
and turn onto slices of toast. 

Codfish Pie 

Line a baking dish with good puff paste. Boil two and 
a half pounds of fresh cod, and when cold strip from the 
bones, flake fine, add a half saltspoon of pepper, a saltspoon 
of salt, two minced onions, a few fine bread crumbs, one cup 
of milk in which two eggs have been beaten, and plenty of 
butter. Fill the pie with the mixture. Cut the crust into 
strips and lattice the top and bake a delicate brown. Serve 
hot. 

Codfish Pie 

Free from bone^ skin, and flake enough cold boiled codfish 
to make two cupfuls. Add to it one dozen raw oysters, or 
one dozen little round clams that have been steamed; one 
gill of melted butter, one gill of sweet cream, a half saltspoon 
of pepper, a saltspoon of salt, the juice of an onion, and 
one beaten egg. Have ready a small pie plate lined with 
crust, pour the mixture in, and spread over the top a layer of 



lo8 Fish 

mashed potato; then put on the top crust and bake. This 
pie is best hot, but may also be eaten cold. 

Codfish au Gratin 

Take two pounds of fresh boiled codfish, flake it after 
freeing it from skin and bone, add a cup of bread crumbs, 
the juice of an onion and a tablespoon of chopped chives, 
half saltspoon of pepper and half teaspoon of salt, a gill of 
melted butter, one egg beaten in a small cup of sweet milk, 
three tablespoons of grated cheese, and a gill of cream. 
Put in well buttered baking shells and bake a delicate 
brown. Serve hot finger rolls with the fish and garnish 
with a spray of cress and a radish rose. 

Cod Peppers 

Lightly flake a small quantity of boiled codfish, add eight 
shrimp broken in small pieces, saltspoon of pepper half 
teaspoon of salt, juice of an onion, juice of half a lemon, a 
generous amotmt of butter; fiU half pepper shells, grate a 
little cheese on the surface, and bake in a moderate oven 
until a dehcate brown. 

Cod Croquettes 

To two cups of cold boiled codfish finely flaked add a cup 
of fine bread crumbs, one egg, seasoning, a lump of butter, 
and a gill of cream. Form into croquettes, roll in egg and 
fine crumbs, to which has been added a slight grating of 
cheese; fry to a delicate brown in butter, drain, and serve 
on a doily, garnished with cress and lemon quarters. Serve 
the shrimp sauce in a silver sauce-boat. Melt enough 
butter to make one third of a pint, shell and shred half a 
can of Barataria shrimp, add cayenne pepper, a teaspoon 
of finely chopped parsley, half a teaspoon of onion juice, 
and half a teaspoon of mustard sauce, and serve hot. 



FisK 109 

Creamed Codfish on Toast 

Bone and flake two pounds of cold boiled codfish. Make 
a good cream sauce, slice two hard-boiled eggs through 
it, add the fish, and serve on slices of toast arranged on a 
hot platter. Garnish with sprays of fresh cress and toast 
sippets. 

Creamed Codfish Tongues 

Parboil as many tongues as are needed to allow one to a 
portion. When done, remove root and skin and have ready 
a French cream sauce made in the following way : Put in a 
saucepan half a cup of butter, and when melted add the 
juice of a lemon, add as much bicarbonate of soda as would 
cover a ten-cent piece, and then add a large cup of rich milk 
that has had a dessertspoon of cornstarch dissolved in it. 
Stir until it is smooth, thenaddpepper.salt, and the tongues. 
When all is hot, serve. 

Pineapple Cod en Casserole 

Take two pounds of cod steak and boil the usual way; 
when done, drain, bone, and flake. Place in a well buttered 
casserole, dust with pepper and salt, and turn over it a 
gill of melted butter, the juice of one onion, and a tablespoon 
of chutney syrup. Boil hard two eggs and slice them 
thinly over the fish, then add one cup of freshly grated 
pineapple, two tablespoons of grated bread crumbs, and last 
of all one cup of carefully made brown sauce. If desired, a 
dozen tiny potato balls, fashioned with the cutter, may be 
added. 

PoUsh Filled Fish 

Take a five-pound cod, tile, or any other fish liked, and 
after it is scaled and cleaned split it down the back and 
remove carefully the backbone. Have ready a highly 
seasoned filling and stuff the fish, not too full; then sew up 



no Fish 

the back and sew up the apron, filling the head with the 
remainder of the stuffing. Turn a little olive oil over the 
fish, dust it with pepper and salt, and bake it, basting it 
with a little melted butter in which the juice of half a lemon 
and an onion have been squeezed and a few fennel seeds 
added. Serve garnished with slices of broiled potato and 
parsley. 

Codfish Turbot 

Flake, skin; and bone two pounds of boiled codfish. 
Place a layer of the fish in a well buttered pudding dish, 
then a layer of fine dry crumbs, a little finely minced onion, 
a dusting of pepper and salt. Repeat the layers until the 
dish is full, then add a cup of cream, a gill of melted butter, 
and a cup of sweet milk. Bake in a medium oven forty 
minutes or more until it is a good brown. 

Cod in Ramekins 

Take two pounds of cold boiled codfish, freed from all 
skin and bone and flaked; add to it one green pepper, one 
little piece of green celery, or leaves, twelve olives, stoned, 
all chopped fine; add also one cup of dry bread crumbs, 
the juice of an onion, a gill of melted butter and one of 
cream, and one beaten egg, a saltspoon each of pepper and 
salt, and a teaspoon of sugar; mix thoroughly together 
and fill buttered ramekins with the mixture. Bake and 
serve garnished with a spray of parsley. 

Escalloped Codfish 

Boil, bone, and flake two pounds of fresh codfish. Add a 
cup of bread crumbs, one finely grated onion, butter, 
pepper and salt, and a half cup of cream. Fill buttered 
ramekins with the mixture, bake a delicate brown; garnish 
with a spray of watercress and lay a finger roll beside the 
ramekin. 



FisH III 

Mock Scallops 

From good-sized codfish steaks one inch thick cut small 
rounds the size of scallops. Dip them in egg, then in fine 
crumbs, and fry in deep hot fat a delicate brown. Drain on 
blotting paper and serve garnished with cress and sliced 
lemon. Serve in the sauce-boat a smooth, highly seasoned 
tomato sauce. 

JeUied Cod 

Take two pounds of cold boiled codfish, skin, bone, and 
flake it with a silver fork. Take one small can of tomatoes, 
add to it one finely chopped onion, chopped stalk of celery, 
tablespoon of Worcestershire sauce, a saltspoon of pepper, 
and a half teaspoon of salt, and let the mixture simmer for 
twenty minutes, then add a teaspoon of sugar and a pinch 
of bicarbonate of soda; set back from the fire and add a 
heaping tablespoon of gelatine powder, which has been 
dissolved in a little cold water. When all is thoroughly 
melted, strain carefully into the fish ; when slightly cool add 
one tablespoon of mayonnaise sauce, one cup of whipped 
cream, and turn into small cold molds that have been lined 
with a coating of aspic jelly, then set away to chill. When 
turned out onto the service plates garnish each with sprays 
of parsley and chopped aspic. 

Flounder k I'ltalienne 

Select a large thick flounder and have it fileted. Dust the 
filets with salt and pepper; then dip them into an egg which 
has been beaten with a tablespoon of hot melted butter 
and fry them in deep hot fat. Have ready a sauce, made 
by rubbing together two level tablespoons each of butter 
and flour; to this cream, add a half pint of boiling water 
and stir until the sauce boils. Add a teaspoon of onion 
juice, a teaspoon of kitchen bouquet, a half saltspoon of 
cayenne pepper, a half teaspoon of salt, and two tablespoons 
of finely chopped button mushrooms. Allow it to boil for 



112 FisH 

three minutes after the mushrooms have been added, stir- 
ring carefully. When done, turn the sauce into a hot dish 
and arrange the filets in it, garnishing the platter with 
small potato croquettes. 

Filet of Sole 

Filet the sole in the usual way, roll and pin the filets 
each with a wooden pick, dip in egg and fine crumbs, fry in 
hot lard, placing in frying basket, and drain carefully. Serve 
garnished with lemon and parsley and place the sauce in a 
small sauce-boat. 

FUet of Sole, Grape Sauce 

Prepare the filet of sole in the usual way, frying it a 
delicate brown, then garnishing it with parsley and lemon 
quarters. Grape sauce, which should be served hot in a 
small tureen, is made by taking two poimds of ripe Isabella 
grapes and squeezing them in the jelly bag, cold; put the 
juice in a saucepan and add a half cup of sugar, a half salt- 
spoon of red pepper, a little spice bag and a half lemon 
thinly sliced with the seeds removed. Boil gently for ten 
minutes; if it is then not thick enough, boil down for five 
minutes more, then strain into the tureen and serve. The 
sauce should be about the consistency of strained honey. 

Flounder k la Turque 

Skin, trim, wash, and dry one large fiounder. On one 
side make a cut down the center from near head to near 
tail and raise the flesh from the bones. Make a stuffing 
with two tablespoons of butter, two teaspoons of Worcester- 
shire sauce, one teaspoon of chopped parsley, three table- 
spoons of bread crumbs, saltspoon of salt, half saltspoon of 
pepper, half a teaspoon of powdered herbs, grated rind and 
juice of half a lemon, half a beaten egg, and half a cup of 
picked shrimps. Mix thoroughly and insert under the filets 
of flounder, leaving the center open. Brush the fiounder 



FisK 113 

over with the remainder of the egg, sprinkle it with 
brown bread crumbs, and bake for thirty minutes on a well 
buttered tin. Serve tartare sauce with this fish. 

Filet of Sole in Cases 

Put one teacup of finely chopped mushrooms into a 
frying pan, with two tablespoons of shalots and one table- 
spoon of parsley, also chopped fine; add a lump of butter 
and season with a saltspoon each of pepper and salt. Toss 
the ingredients over the fire until they are cooked, then set 
aside to cool. When cold, take the filets, mask one side of 
them with the above mixture, and roll them up, securing 
them with a piece of thread; then place them between 
two hot buttered plates and bake them. While they are 
baking, prepare a little white cream sauce. When done, 
put each filet into a small paper case, put a small broiled 
mushroom on top of each, then fill up the cases with the 
hot sauce, and serve. 

Stuffed or Rolled Flounder 

Have the flounders split and boned, and the heads and 
tails cut off. Prepare a stuffing with one cup of bread 
crumbs, one cup of cold boiled lobster cut very fine, one 
beaten egg, three tablespoons of melted butter, two 
tablespoons of tomato ketchup, seasoning, and a little 
cream to hold it together. Spread on the fish, and roll 
and tie with kitchen binder. Dust with a little pepper, 
salt, and flour; place the fish in a well buttered baking dish, 
basting every few minutes with melted butter, and when 
done serve hot, garnished with parsley, broiled potatoes, 
and lemon quarters. Serve a hot smooth tomato dressing 
in the tureen. 

Baked HaUbut 

Have a halibut steak cut one and a half inches thick, 
wash and dry it carefully. Have a small roasting pan well 
buttered and sprinkled with finely minced onion, pepper 



114 FisK 

and salt, and lay in the fish. Sprinkle with the onion, 
a dusting of pepper and salt, a teaspoon. of lemon juice, 
a gill of good stock, and the beaten yolk of an egg. 
Put generous lumps of butter over it and bake thirty min- 
utes. Serve with a rich tomato dressing. If liked, just 
before it is done a little bit of grated cheese may be sprinkled 
over the top. Garnish with parsley and hard-boiled egg 
rings and serve hot. 

Halibut au Gratin 

Take a pound and a half of cold boiled halibut, free 
from skin and bone, and flake. Add one small grated 
onion, a teaspoon of chopped parsley, a gill of melted 
butter, a half saltspoon of pepper, a saltspoon of salt, a 
tablespoon of Worcestershire sauce, one beaten egg, and 
two tablespoons of grated cheese. Mix all thoroughly 
with the fish and add three quarters of a cup of light cream 
or rich milk. Fill well buttered ramekins with the mixture, 
dusting a little of the cheese over the top of each, and bake. 
Garnish with a spray of watercress and dry toast fingers. 

Halibut Turbot 

Boil three pounds of halibut, remove skin and bone, and 
flake it carefully. Boil in a little water a bunch of parsley, 
one large onion, and a stalk of finely chopped celery, to 
extract their flavor; strain and thicken with two tablespoons 
of flour, creamed with half a cup of soft butter, add- 
ing slowly to it a pint of hot cream. Mix lightly with 
the fish and fill well buttered ramekins with the mixture, 
sprinkling a few bread crumbs over the top, with pepper, 
salt, and little bits of butter. Bake a delicate brown and 
garnish with cress. 

Deviled Halibut 

Boil two and a half pounds of halibut, tnen free it from 
skin, bone, and flake it. Have ready chopped fine one large 



FisK 115 

onion, six Spanish peppers (those canned in oil), eight olives, 
and a stalk of celery. Add a cup of fine crumbs and add the 
mixture to the fish, with two tablespoons of chutney sjmip, 
a tablespoon of Worcestershire sauce, a cup of tart apple 
sauce, a gill of melted butter, and the whites of two eggs 
stiffiy beaten. Put into well buttered baking shells or 
ramekins and bake from twenty to forty minutes, covering 
them the first fifteen. 

Pineapple Halibut 

Prepare and broil sufiicient halibut steak for the number 
to be served. Have ready a rich English brown sauce 
which has had added to it after it has been strained and 
thickened, a cup of fresh grated pineapple. Serve the fish 
on a hot platter, turn the sauce over it, and garnish with 
rice croquettes and fresh cress. 

Halibut Macaroni 

Flake two pounds of fresh boiled or cold left-over fish, re- 
moving all skin and bones. Boil one half pound of macaroni 
in salt water until tender, then cut it in small pieces. Mix 
the fish, macaroni, and three ounces of grated cheese, and 
put into ramekin dishes lined with thinly rolled puff paste. 
Put grated cheese and butter on top, brown in the oven and 
serve very hot. 

Baked Bluefish 

Have the bluefish cleaned and washed, leaving the head 
on for baking, which may be filled with dressing. Make any 
good, savory stuffing, and when filled sew up the fish and, 
after placing in a well buttered baking pan, brush over the 
surface with a little thin sugar syrup so that a thin sprin- 
kling of bread crumbs will adhere to it ; add a dusting of 
pepper and salt, and while baking baste with white wine in 



ii6 Fish 

which there is a little melted butter, juice of half a lemon, 
two cloves, and one small bayleaf. 
Blue fish is in season from early spring to late fall. 

Broiled Bluefish 

This recipe will answer for the broiling of all kinds of 
fish, large or small. 

Scale and rinse the fish before splitting it down the 
beUy. Dust it with pepper and salt, brush the flesh side of 
the fish with butter; grease the gridiron (or broiler) with a 
greased cloth or bit of suet, and lay the fish upon it. If 
the fish is broiled under gas place the flesh side up ; if broiled 
over coals place the flesh side down, turning to broil the 
skin side last. It will take from twenty to thirty minutes 
to broil the fish properly over coals; perhaps a little longer 
under gas. 

Fried Smelts 

Select fresh, green smelts and after rinsing them, make 
a slight opening at the gills with a sharp knife or pair of 
scissors, then draw the smelt through the thumb and 
fingers to remove the intestines; wash, dry, dust with a 
little pepper and salt, and roll in very fine, dry bread 
crumbs, after dipping them in egg. Place in a wire frying 
basket, fry a delicate brown in deep fat; when done, remove, 
drain, serve in a napkin, and garnish with lemon quarters 
and cress. Serve tartare sauce in the sauce-boat. In 
season from fall to early spring. 

Fried Eels 

To prepare eels for frying or stewing skin them, clean, 
and cut off the heads, then cut them into pieces two inches 
long. If they are to be fried dip them in egg and then in fine 
crumbs, fry in deep fat until a delicate brown, serve gar- 
nished with fresh cress. If they are to be stewed cover the 
pieces with boiling water to which is added the juice of a 



FisH 117 

lemon and the juice of an onion; simmer ten minutes. 
Melt a tablespoon of butter in a saucepan and mix with it 
two tablespoons of flour; when smooth add slowly a cup of 
the water in which the eels have been boiling, then stir 
the gravy in with the eels. Cover and stew for twenty- 
five minutes. Season to taste and serve turned over slices 
of toast, garnished with parsley. In season from spring to 
fall. Smoked eels broiled or baked are a favorite Southern 
breakfast dish. 

Creamed Mackerel 

Soak the salt mackerel for twelve hours, changing the 
water four times. Then lay it in a shallow stewpan, cover 
with milk, and simmer for twenty minutes. Remove the 
fish carefully and place it on a hot dish; thicken the 
milk with butter and flour rubbed to a cream, add a quarter 
saltspoon of salt, a teaspoon of chopped tarragon leaves, 
and turn the sauce over the mackerel. In season in winter. 

Broiled Mackerel Soufhem Style 

Soak the salt mackerel for forty-eight hours, changing the 
water three times. Wipe the fish dry, lay it on a greased 
gridiron and broil. When it is done smear it with butter, 
add a slight sprinkling of pepper; dish on a hot plate and 
garnish with lemon quarters and cress. 

Fresh mackerel may be served broiled, baked, or in any 
of the ways in which halibut is served. In season from 
early spring to fall. 

Pan Fish 

All small fish may be purchased from the fish monger who 
will clean and prepare them for frying. Each season gives 
enough variety of these small fish to make them a stand- 
ard breakfast dish. They may also be stewed; see perch 
recipe. 



Ii8 Fish 

Baked Finnan Haddie 

Select a short, thick finnan haddie, soak in cold water 
for ten minutes, dry with a soft cloth, lay in a buttered 
baking pan, spread generously with butter on the flesh side, 
dust very sparingly with pepper, and pour over a small cup 
of cream. Bake until tender (about half>n hour), remove 
carefully, and serve. 

Finnan Haddie k la King 

Boil the fish until it is done, about twenty minutes, then 
flake it free from skin and bone with a silver fork. Put 
into the chafing dish a large tablespoon of butter with six 
button mushrooms halved, a chopped red pepper, and a 
teaspoon of chopped chives; when these have sauted for 
five minutes add the fish, then a gill of cream in which a yolk 
of an egg has been stirred, and a half gill of sherry. Blend 
well together and serve on toast slices, garnished with egg 
rings and olive curls. 

Pineapple Pike 

Skin, bone, and filet a good sized pike; dust with pepper 
and salt, and dip in a little salt pork fat that has been fried 
out from two slices of salt pork, and in which the juice of 
an onion has been squeezed. Drain off and broil the 
fish until it is a delicate brown. Have ready a brown sauce 
made of a half pound of diced top round steak and a half 
pound of lean pork ; put on to boil in a pint of water. When 
cooked down, strain and add a cup of finely chopped fresh 
pineapple, six water chestnuts cut fine, and a tablespoon of 
cut bamboo sprouts. Let all simmer gently, then thicken 
with a little browned flour. Turn over the fish and garnish 
with spoonfuls of crisply fried Chinese egg noodles. 

Fried Frogs' Legs 

Select as many frogs' legs as are needed to allow a pair to 
a portion, two pair if the legs are small. Blanche them for 



FisK 119 

five minutes in boiling water, drain, wipe dry, dust with 
flour, and fry in a frying basket plunged into hot fat. 
Serve piled Sn a napkin, with tartare sauce in the sauce- 
boat. In season in early spring, summer, and fall. 

Creamed Frogs' Legs 

Blanche the frogs' legs the same as for frying, th^n par- 
boil them gently for ten minutes. Make and have ready a 
good cream sauce, not too thick, but well seasoned; drain 
the legs and put them into the sauce; add a teaspoon of 
chopped tarragon leaves, and serve the frogs' legs in a hol- 
lowed loaf of bread garnished with parsley and lemon 
quarters. The same number of frogs are used in this 
recipe as in the preceding one, allowing a pair to a portion. 

Fish Forcemeat 

Put through the meat chopper about two pounds of raw 
haddock, or fresh codfish, then put it into a bowl and rub 
with the potato mashed until very smooth. Add a half 
teaspoon of salt, a half cup of cream, two tablespoons of 
melted butter, a saltspoon of pepper, a slight grating of 
nutmeg, a teaspoon of chopped tarragon leaves, a grated 
onion, and one beaten egg. Add, also, one tablespoon of 
cornstarch which may be moistened with a little of the 
cream. Turn all the ingredients, after they are mixed, into 
a well buttered pudding mold and bake a half hour. Serve 
hot, with a good smooth tomato sauce, drawn butter, or 
any other sauce liked. 

Pompano Stuffed with Lobster 

Select a fresh pompano, remove the head and tail. Split 
as for broiling and remove the bone. Boil a lobster weigh- 
ing about a pound and a half. Remove meat and save all of 
the coral. Put the meat through a meat chopper, mix 
it with a small cup of cream sauce. Season with a teaspoon 
of salt and a saltspoon of paprika. Lastly, stir in a table- 



120 FisK 

spoon of sherry, and mix thoroughly. Lay the split 
pompano skin side down, and spread thickly with the 
lobster forcemeat. Garnish the fish with trufiles cut in 
fancy shapes and hard-boiled eggs, whites and yolks chopped 
separately, and the coral of the lobster cut in strips. Potu: 
a little salted water in the pan, cover the fish with buttered 
paper, and steam in hot oven for half an hour. When done 
place on a hot dish on a bed of shredded lettuce. Put a 
few shrimps around the bed on the lettuce, and cover with 
shrimp sauce. 

Pompano is in season from mid- winter to early summer. 

Weakfish Pudding 

Boil a three-pound weakfish for twenty minutes. When 
done skin, bone, and flake the fish. Add to the flaked meat 
three quarters of a cup of dry bread crumbs, one large 
grated onion, a tablespoon of chutney sjnnip, a saltspoon of 
pepper, a teaspoon of salt, two beaten eggs, a gill of melted 
butter; put the mixture into a buttered pudding mold, 
cover, set in boiling water, and boil an hour and a half, 
being sure that no water boils into the mold. Unmold the 
pudding on a hot platter and have ready a pint of rich 
drawn butter to turn over it. In season all summer. 

Bombay (Weakfish) Toast 

Take a cup and a half of left-over boiled or baked weak- 
fish and fiake it. Moisten it with a smooth, plain tomato 
sauce, or a drawn butter sauce, or a brown gravy. Heat it 
hot and turn over toast slices. This makes a nice break- 
fast or luncheon dish. 

Tuna Fish Pasties 

Take one can of tuna fish, drain and flake it, then add 
one small grated onion, a half cup of chopped celery, and 
one finely chopped green pepper. Turn over the fish one 



Fish 121 

cup of cream sauce and mix all well together. Line large 
ramekins with good pastry and fill them with the mixture, 
adding a teaspoon of melted butter to each, and put a 
lattice of the crust over the top. Bake until the pastry 
is done and set away to cool. 

Tuna Fish Croquettes 

Take one small can of tuna fish, drain and flake it with a 
silver fork; add one very finely minced onion, three quarters 
of a cup of fine dried bread crumbs, saltspoon of pepper, 
half teaspoon of salt, one beaten egg, teaspoon of Wor- 
cestershire sauce, small teaspoon of sugar, and a tablespoon 
of melted butter. Mix well and form the mixture into small 
croquettes. Dip each in egg and fine crumbs and fry in 
hot fat a delicate brown. Drain and serve on a hot platter 
garnished with parsley and peas carefully drained. 

Escalloped Tuna Fish 

Take a small can of tuna fish, drain and flake. Add a 
half cup of celery, six olives, one pepper, and two sprays 
of watercress, all finely chopped. A half cup of bread 
crumbs, a gill of melted butter, a half saltspoon of pepper, 
a half teaspoon of salt, juice of an onion, a tablespoon of 
chutney syrup, and two beaten eggs. Fill well buttered 
ramekins with the mixture and sprinkle a little grated cheese 
over the top and bake. 

Tuna Loaf 

Beat one egg until light and add one cup of bread crumbs, 
one cup of flaked Tuna, one cup of sweet milk, a saltspoon 
of salt, a half saltspoon of pepper, teaspoon of lemon juice, 
and a half teaspoon of onion juice. Mix well, press the 
mixttire into a buttered loaf pan and bake twenty-five 
minutes. Garnish with hard-boiled eggs and serve with 
drawn butter. 



122 TisH 

Make the drawn butter by melting one fourth cup of 
butter and adding one tablespoon of flour. Add gradually 
one cup of hot water, salt and pepper, and one tablespoon 
of lemon juice, and bring to a boil. 

Tuna Baked in Peppers 

Remove the seeds and ribs from six sweet green peppers, 
and soak them in cold, salted water. Beat fotir eggs and 
add two cups of flaked Tuna, one cup of bread crumbs, 
one cup of sweet milk, level teaspoon of salt, half saltspoon 
of pepper, and a half teaspoon of lemon juice. Pack the 
Tuna mixture into the pepper shells and sprinkle with bread 
crumbs and dot with butter. Bake until the peppers are 
done and the crumbs nicely browned. If the peppers 
are quite large, they may be cut in halves lengthwise and 
filled with the mixture. Serve hot. 

Spanish Mackerel 

Spanish mackerel, though its season is short, is a very 
popular fish; it is delicious broiled, it is good baked if 
plenty of butter is used with it, and is acceptable boiled. 
In season in spring. 

Bass, deep-sea trout, ling, carp, haddock, and kingfish are 
all acceptable in their seasons, and are cooked after the 
recipes given for boiling, broiling, and baking. 

Stewed Perch 

Clean and prepare the perch in the usual way, then lay 
them in a stewpan with a pint of stock and half a pint of 
sherry, a bud of garlic, bay leaf, some sweet herbs, two 
cloves, a saltspoon of salt, and a half saltspoon of pepper. 
Stew until done; then take out the fish, strain and thicken 
the gravy, adding a dash of nutmeg and a teaspoon of 
anchovy sauce. Turn over the fish and serve. 



Fish 123 

WAYS OF SERVING COLD FISH 

Tuna Fish Mignon 

Drain one mediimi-sized can of tuna fish and flake it with 
a silver fork. Add to it a gill of melted butter, half salt- 
spoon of pepper, saltspoon of salt, a tablespoon of chut- 
ney syrup, a tablespoon of chopped parsley, a gill of 
cream, and three tablespoons of bread crumbs that have 
been fried in butter and carefully drained. Chop and add 
two cold boiled eggs and the stiffly beaten white of one 
egg; mix all together and fill well buttered ramekins with the 
mixture, grating a little English cheese over the top of each. 
Bake a delicate brown. These may be served hot or cold; 
garnish each with a slice of delicately toasted bacon. 

Curried Bluefish 

Boil a three-pound bluefish. When done and cold free it 
from all skin and bone and flake it. Have ready a cup "and a 
half of rich tomato curry made of one can of tomatoes, a bay 
leaf, a tablespoon of butter, a saltspoon each of pepper and 
salt, sliced onion, stalk of celery, and a little finely chopped 
ham, adding a half teaspoon of ctirry powder. After it has 
cooked half an hotir, strain, thicken slightly, and add the 
fish, with one cup of fine, dry bread crumbs, a little chopped 
parsley, and six chopped truffles. Fill buttered ramekins 
with the mixture, dust the top of each with a little grated 
English cheese, and bake. When done set aside to cool, but 
do not chill. 

Molded Snapper 

Flake two pounds of cold boiled red snapper and add a 
cup of bread crumbs, a saltspoon each of pepper and salt, 
half a cup of melted butter, one beaten egg in a gill of cream, 
and three tablespoons of grated cheese. Mix the ingredients 
thoroughly, adding a half teaspoon of hot Southern sauce. 



124 Fish 

Put the mixture in a well buttered baking mold, bake to a 
delicate brown, and when cool set it in the icebox to chill. 
Turn on to a platter and garnish the edge of the mold with 
watercress and as many bunches containing three or four 
stalks of cold boiled asparagus caught with green pepper 
rings as there are portions to be served, the asparagus having 
been allowed to marinate in French dressing for twenty 
minutes. Serve mayonnaise over each portion of the 
mold, laying the bunch of asparagus at one side of the 
plate. 

Salmon Vernon 

Boil and cool fresh salmon filets, place on lettuce leaves, 
and put in a cool place. Take fresh, crisp cucumbers, 
pare them and with a thin knife, after cutting them in half, 
cut them around thinly as if paring an apple, until freed 
from the seeds, then roll tightly and slice down very thin, 
mixing the thin rings up lightly like noodles; cover them 
thickly with salt and let them stand thus for twenty minutes. 
Rinse off the salt, dry them in a soft cloth, and sprinkle 
them over the filets. Garnish each dish with a little strip 
of red pepper and serve with tartare sauce. 

i 

Tile in Cucumber Jelly 

Pake two pounds of freshly boiled tile, drain and flake 
it. When cold place it in a wet jelly mold, first a layer of the 
fish, then a thin layer of vegetable macddoine, continuing 
in this manner until the mold is three quarters full. Next 
take a heaping tablespoon and a half of powdered gelatine, 
a half cup of water, four tablespoons of vinegar, a half 
teaspoon of salt, a teaspoon of onion juice, and four good- 
sized cucumbers that have been grated. Stir all over a 
gentle heat until thoroughly mixed. If the mixture is a 
little thick, add a little French dressing, use a few drops of 
green vegetable coloring, and turn all into the mold over the 
fish and set away to chill and harden. When ready for 



Fish 125 

use turn the molded fish out on green lettuce leaves and 
heap with mayonnaise. 

Snapper in Aspic 

Prepare and boil a three-pound red snapper. Carefully 
drain it and when cool lay it in a mold which has been wet 
in cold water and garnish with slices of cold hard-boiled 
egg and half cuctmibers hollowed and filled with caviar and 
laid around the edge of the mold with little heaps of cold 
boiled shrimps between them. Turn over all a good aspic 
jelly colored a delicate green with Breton coloring. When 
thoroughly set and chilled and ready to serve place a baking 
sheet over the mold, turn the aspic on it, have the platter 
ready and turn the jellied fish back on it. Garnish with 
sprays of cress drawn through thin slices of lemon. In 
serving put a tablespoon of mayonnaise on each portion. 

Pickled Salmon 

Boil three pounds of salmon and when cold lay it in a 
crock with a half ounce of whole spice, a teaspoon of 
salt, a saltspoon of cayenne pepper, two bay leaves, a cup 
of vinegar, and a cup of the water the fish was boiled in. 
Let stand twelve hours; then it is ready for use. 

Molded Shad 

Choose a fine shad with roe. Clean the fish thoroughly, 
'then draw together, fastening the body and the head with a 
linen thread. Place at the bottom of a fish kettle two 
carrots diced, four cloves, two thinly sliced onions, a bud of 
garlic, two bay leaves, a teaspoon of salt, a saltspoon of 
pepper; then lay the shad on top and cover with a quart of 
claret. Put in a frying pan a glass of olive oil and when hot 
throw in six cloves of garlic, a saltspoon of rosemary, and 
fry for five minutes. Strain this oil with a quarter cup 
of tarragon vinegar into the shad broth. Now place the fish 



126 FisH 

kettle over the fire and when it begins to boil draw it to one 
side and let it simmer for half an hour. When cooked put 
in six leaves of good gelatine and replace the cover, and 
allow it to stand and cool. Serve on a long fish plate with 
the following vinaigrette : 

A tablespoon of chopped chervil, a tablespoon of chopped* 
capers, a teaspoon of mixed mustard, two tablespoons of 
Worcestershire sauce, a saltspoon of pepper and a half 
teaspoon of salt, two tablespoons of olive oil and a quarter 
of a cup of red vinegar, and three quarters of a cup of the 
fish broth. If desired the fish broth may be strained, cooled, 
and served in bouillon cups with finger rolls, as it is de- 
liciously flavored. 

A Good Cold Fish Dish 

A very good cold dish is pickled salmon. It is made by 
boiling the salmon, then placing it in a deep crock with. a 
tight cover. Take a cup of water in which it was boiled 
and a cupful of vinegar, half ounce of pepper, half ounce of 
allspice, one teaspoon of salt, two bay leaves, two cloves; 
boil the mixture for ten minutes, then let cool and pour 
over the salmon, covering tightly for twelve hours. Drain 
and serve the fish on a bed of watercress, garnished with 
thin slices of lemon and hard-boiled egg cut in fancy shapes. 

Cold Filet of Bass Parisienne 

Select one and a half pounds of fresh sea bass, have it 
fileted and cook the filets in a broth made of half a cup of 
vinegar, pepper, salt, and enough water to cover them. 
When done remove them carefully and when cold, cover an 
oblong dish with washed and dried lettuce leaves; lay the 
filets on and garnish them with thinly sliced cucumbers and 
tomatoes and dust all with a little paprika. Make a dress- 
ing with a teaspoon of chopped chives, a teaspoon of 
chopped tarragon leaves, two shalots, a saltspoon each 
of salt and pepper, a half cup of heavy French dressing. 



FisK • 127 

•and enough mayonnaise to bind the sauce. Have this 
sauce chilled and pour it over the filets just before they are 
served. 

Cold JeUied Eels 

Skin and cut the eels into short pieces; put them into a 
pint of white wine with sliced onions, carrots, mushrooms, 
a few peas, and one diced potato. Season to taste and stew 
until the eels are done; remove from the fire, add a few 
thin slices of lemon and a teaspoon of minced parsley. 
Turn into an oblong mold and set away to cool and jell; 
when ready to serve turn onto a platter and garnish with 
lemon and parsley. 

Goosefish 

The people of England and Germany are most apprecia- 
tive users of a fish almost unknown to the American table. 
This is the goosefish, monkfish, anglerfish, or devilfish, the 
last name being best known, perhaps, in America. It is 
said on the best authority that the steaks taken from this 
fish contain as much flesh building material, pound for 
pound, as sirloin steak. The fish weighs in the neighbor- 
hood of twenty-five pounds and is cut up for market like 
cod, haddock, and other big fish. 

Grayfish 

Crayfish is the nom de plume under which the dogfish is 
bidding for favor. After rigorous and costly experimen- 
tation, the U. S. Bureau of Fisheries recommend it as one 
of the cheapest and most delicious of canned fishes. The 
fish has a ribless backbone, a fact which will endear it to 
most housewives ; it is packed in cans in a compressed piece, 
paper wrapped, the light and dark meat being as distinct 
as that of the salmon. 



SHELL FISH— LOBSTERS 
The Choosing and Preparing of Lobster 

Choosing lobsters is quite as much of a problem as choos- 
ing fresh fish, but is found more simple than selecting fish, 
for the lobster at his best, is decidedly lively and on the 
defensive as much as his weighty body out of water will 
allow him to be. Whereas the fish is a passive subject at 
best. A lobster from nine to ten and a half inches long, is 
the smallest that may be purchased, and will probably 
weigh from a pound and a quarter, to a pound and a half. 
Anything smaller comes under the head of Chicken Lobster. 
A good way of testing a lobster is by comparing its weight 
to its size. For example, if a lobster ten and a half inches 
long only weighs between a pound and a quarter and a 
pound and a half, one may know that it has lately passed 
through the period of shedding, and for that reason is soft- 
shelled and light of weight. If, on the other hand, his 
weight is from a pound and a half to two and a half, he will 
be found in prime condition for a good meal. 

Lobsters up to a weight of three pounds make the best 
food. After three pounds they are not so apt to be tender. 

A good lively lobster will keep in a cold package, packed 
in sea weed, for many days. When lobster is designed for 
boiling, or to be used in any one of the dishes requiring the 
meat of cooked lobster, have a pot full of water boiling 
hard and plunge the lobster head first into this. Cover 
tightly and boil twenty minutes to half an hour, according 
to the size. If he is intended for use, almost immediately, 
take him from the boiling water and plunge him into ice 

128 



Shell Fish 129 

water. Let him stay there until thoroughly cold. This 
makes the meat firm. Ten to fifteen minutes being suffi- 
cient. He is then ready to open. If the lobster is to be 
broiled, have the fire in perfect condition, a gas oven is 
most universally used, and because of its construction, is 
the most convenient. Live coals are in order where the old- 
fashioned kitchen stove is still in vogue, and for camp 
purposes, charcoal will answer the purpose nicely. The 
lobster intended for broiling should be laid on a heavy 
board and split straight down the middle with a sharp 
carving knife or cleaver. This is difficult in the home 
kitchen, but the nearby butcher will always split them for 
you and they may be returned immediately to the hot 
broiler. 

If one is buying boiled lobsters, a safe way to tell whether 
they were in good condition when boiled, is to straighten 
out the tail. If this returns immediately to its curled posi- 
tion, the lobster was in good condition when boiled. If it 
remains limp, it has probably been out of the water some 
time. This is, however, not an infallible rule, and one 
should not condemn a fish dealer or butcher until they 
have examined the meat of the lobster, and if it is firm 
the lobster is in good condition and safe for food. 

From July until September is the general shedding 
time, when the lobsters change shell, then they are apt to 
be very heavy, but when opened it will be found it is the 
new shell that makes them so, and that they are lean and 
not very good eating. 

A few simple directions for opening the boiled lobster 
may give the housewife courage to serve the dainty oftener 
in the home. 

When the lobster is ready to open have the platter 
ready, lined with large green lettuce leaves, break off the 
small claws and garnish the edge of the dish with them, 
then break off the large claws, crack them, and remove the 
meat. Next take the lobster by the back of the body in 
the right hand, the tail in the left hand, and insert two 
p 



130 Shell TisH 

fingers under the body shell at the base of the tail, then 
break through the soft shell and separate the tail from the 
body. 

Lay the tail on its back on the board and with a sharp 
knife cut through the soft rib-like structure and, flattening 
the points at each side, crack the shell and by putting two 
fingers under the meat it may be easily drawn forth whole, 
open it right down the middle and remove the single 
intestine which runs down the entire length of the tail. 

Next take the body in the right hand and place the 
thumb of the left hand under the shell and pull out the 
body, the soft green jelly-like substance in the center is 
called the "fat" and is not only edible but is considered a 
great delicacy. The contents of the head or "lady in the 
chair, " as it is called, is not edible, and the "dead men" or 
gills at either side of the body are not edible. 

Put the two thumbs in the center of the body when the 
gills are removed and separate it into two pieces and pick 
the meat carefully from the cells which will be readily 
distinguished. Now if the shells are to be used in garnish- 
ing, clean them, carefully rinse in warm water, then with a 
soft cloth wipe them over with olive oil, then put in a cool 
place until needed. 

The lobster should be boiled in the morning for use 
at dinner and kept in a very cold place, but not in direct 
contact with the ice, and it is better not to remove the 
meat from the shell until just before preparing it in any 
desired way. 

Lobster and Sweetbread en Casserole 

Boil two lobsters and remove the meat, set aside the two 
tails and two large claws. All the rest of the meat mince 
fine, add to it a half teaspoon of pepper, a half teaspoon 
of salt, a grated onion, a tablespoon of chopped celery, 
a teaspoon of chopped parsley, a half cup of fine crumbs, 
one beaten egg, two tablespoons of melted butter, and mix 



Shell Fish 131 

well together. Have ready two cold parboiled sweet- 
breads, split them, but not entirely apart, and stuff them 
with the mixture, butter the casserole and lay the sweet- 
breads in the center, the lobster tails at either side with the 
claws, sprinkle with pepper and salt, generous lumps of 
butter, and, last of all, turn in a half pint of cream, and a gill 
of chutney syrup. Cook in medium oven one hour to an 
hour and a half. 

Lobster k la Newburg 

Select two lobsters weighing about two pounds each. 
Use lump of butter as big as two eggs. "While the butter 
is melting, separate four eggs. Beat the yolks and mix 
with a pint of sweet cream. Stir the cream and eggs well 
together. Pour into the melted butter, then stir in the 
lobster, which has been taken from the shell and cut into 
small pieces. Allow to simmer until the eggs are cooked'. 
When ready to serve pour in two wineglasses of sherry, or 
madeira. This will serve six people. 

Lobster Chops 

For the lobster chops, to two cups of cold boiled lobster, 
chopped fine, add saltspoon of salt, half saltspoon of pepper 
and a little chopped parsley. Boil one cup of cream mixed 
with three (level) tablespoons of flour, one tablespoon of 
butter, and mix with lobster. When cool, form into chops, 
roll in cracker dust, fry in hot lard, and insert a claw to 
carry out the effect. Garnish with sliced lemon and parsley, 
put sauce tartare in sauce-boat, and serve the chops on a 
doily. 

Buttered Lobster 

Beat up the yolks of two eggs with a tablespoon of butter; 
when it forms a smooth cream add half a gill of milk or 
cream, a saltspoon of freshly ground black pepper, and a 



132 Shell Fish 

half saltspoon of coralline pepper. Put it into the double 
pan with the meat of a lobster, cut up not too small, and let 
it heat in this for ten minutes, without on any account 
allowing it to boil. Serve on toast. 

Lobster and Codfish Tongues en Casserole 

Meat of two boiled lobsters cut small. Codfish tongues 
boiled and sliced, put in a well buttered casserole with a 
gill of cream, a gill of melted butter, a tablespoon of 
powdered sweet herbs, and a teaspoon of Worcestershire 
sauce. Dice three white potatoes and bake all in the 
casserole one hour. 

Lobster Tarts 

Line as many tartlet pans as there are to be portions 
served with a good pie crust. Take the meat of one large 
boiled lobster and cut it fine. Add to it one cup of chopped 
button mushrooms, a chopped red pepper, and three 
chopped truffles that have been sauted in butter. Add a 
half cup of dry bread crumbs, a gill of melted butter, a gill of 
cream, and one boiled egg chopped. Season with a dessert- 
spoon of Worcestershire sauce, the same amount of chutney 
syrup, a saltspoon of white pepper, and a teaspoon of salt. 
Fill the pans with the mixture; dust the top of each with a 
little grated American cheese, and bake until the crust is 
done in the oven. A large lobster, weighing three and a 
half to four pounds, and this mixture will be enough to serve 
eight people. 

Scalloped Lobster 

To the meat of two cold boiled lobsters, add a half cup 
grated old English sharp cheese, three quarters of a cup 
of cracker crumbs, a saltspoon of pepper, half a teaspoon of 
salt, two cups of sweet heavy cream, and one tablespoon 
of butter. Before greasing the baking dish rub lightly with 



Shell Fish 133 

a bud of garlic, then butter, then fill in the mixture, adding 
the cream last. Bake a delicate brown in a moderate 
oven and serve as an entree. Dry toast fingers or small 
rolls should be served with the lobster. 

Lobster Cardinal 

Remove the boiled lobster from the shell, cut' in pieces, 
mix with one and a half cups of shrimp sauce. This is 
a light cream sauce with a dozen shredded shrimp in it and 
two tablespoons of tomato ketchup added to color it. Put 
the lobster back in the shell, sprinkle thickly with grated 
cheese, place under the broiler until brown, and serve with 
hot finger rolls. 

Lobster Provengale 

Have the lobster split as for broiling, remove the meat, 
and cut in pieces. Saute in olive oil to which has been 
added a grated onion, two finely minced shalots, and a half 
bud of garlic, a teaspoon of Worcestershire sauce, a 
few drops of kitchen bouquet, two tablespoons of sherry, 
and a tablespoon of tomato sauce. Do not add the 
sherry until the lobster is all cooked, then let all boil up 
together once. This may be served in patty shells, rame- 
kins, or in a border of rice. 

Lobster Creole 

Take the meat of one heavy cold boiled lobster and cut 
it fine. Add to it a small cup of dry crumbs, a tablespoon 
of chutney syrup, a saltspoon each of pepper and salt, a 
gill of melted butter, and one cup of thin cream sauce. 
Fill buttered ramekins with the mixture, dusting the top 
of each with a little grated cheese. Bake fifteen minutes. 

Lobster Creole 

Boil one lobster, cut the meat in small pieces, and steep 
it in melted butter with one grated onion, two dozen button 



134 Shell Fish 

mushrooms chopped with one fresh green pepper, and one 
large fresh tomato; season and serve with rice timbales 
garnished with watercress. 

To Broil a Lobster 

With sharp knife and mallet, split in two down back, 
following line which runs down middle of shell; remove 
stomach and intestine; place the two pieces on a broiler 
with shell part downwards, and broil over a moderate 
fire for half an hour or longer. When half cooked, moisten 
well with butter; when thoroughly cooked spread butter 
over, andsprinklewith pepper, salt, and lemon juice. Crack 
claws before serving. It is a good idea to have the butcher 
split and clean the lobster. 

CRABS 

Crabs are in season all summer and, if fresh and lively, 
may be boiled and served as a foundation of many good 
dishes. The season for the soft-shell crabs is short, but 
they are considered a delicacy, and are favorites while 
they last. 

To Cook Hard-Shell Crabs 

Hard crabs are cooked by plunging them into boiling 
water, and boiling them twenty minutes if they are good 
sized. When they are cold remove the claws, raise the 
apron with the thumb nail, then insert the thimib at the 
back of the shell and remove the body. Pull away the 
"dead men" and remove the white meat. Avoid the eyes 
and the gall bag back of them. When all meat is removed 
place in the ice-box to cool. They are then ready to use 
in any way liked best. 

Stuffed Crabs 

Put half a pound of crab meat in a saucepan with a 
teaspoon of butter, season well with pepper and salt, 



SKell FisK 135 

add a pinch of chopped parsley, and thicken with cream 
sauce. Stir lightly to avoid breaking the meat. Stuff a 
large crab shell which has been thoroughly cleaned, cover 
with bread crumbs and a little melted butter, and brown in 
a quick oven or under a gas broiler. 

Crab Meat Puffs 

Let a cup and a half of flaked crab meat simmer in a cup 
of sauce k la Newburg, have ready puff paste squares, 
tuck a tablespoon of mixture into a square, turning up the 
points like an apple dumpling, grate a little Parmesan cheese 
over the top, and bake in the oven a delicate brown. 

Crab Tartlets 

Line tartlet pans with good pie crust, take one pint of 
fresh, carefully picked-out crab meat, and add to it three 
tablespoons of bread crumbs that have been fried in butter 
and drained, three tablespoons of very finely chopped 
celery, a half saltspoon of pepper, a saltspoon of salt, and one 
cup of rich cream sauce not made too thick. Fill the tarts 
and put on little upper crusts, cut to let the gas and steam 
escape, and bake them a delicate brown. These are delicious 
cold and are very dainty for the Sunday night supper. 

Crab Meat in Ramekins 

Take' two cups of crab meat, one small cup of fine, dry 
bread crumbs, one beaten egg, saltspoon each of pepper and 
salt, a gill of melted butter, a cup of sweet cream, and a table- 
spoon of chutney syrup. Mix the ingredients well together 
and fill buttered ramekins or scallop shells with it. Sprinkle 
the top of each with grated cheese and bake a delicate brown. 

Deviled Crabs 

Boil twelve crabs and when cold remove the meat. Rub 
together two tablespoons of flour and one of butter, when 
smooth thicken a half pint of milk and when it reaches 



136 Shell Fish 

boiling point remove it from the fire. Add to it a half 
teaspoon of paprika, a level teaspoon of salt, a saltspoon of 
white pepper, a tablespoon of chopped tarragon leaves; 
mash the yolks of four hard-boiled eggs together and work 
into the sauce. Add the crab meat, mixing all thoroughly. 
Add a half cup of soft bread crumbs, a tablespoon of chutney 
syrup, mix all together, and fill the empty crab shells with 
the mixtures, dotting the top of each with a little butter 
and dusting with a little grated cheese. These crabs may 
be put into a frying basket and plunged into hot fat for two 
minutes, but they are nicer if baked in the oven for fifteen 
minutes, or until they are a delicate brown on top. 

Crab Gumbo 

Take a half of a fresh tender chicken, cut into small 
pieces, put into a saucepan with a large spoon of lard and 
one of flour, watch carefully and brown; turn over it a 
pint of water and let it cook for an hour and a half. Pick 
the meat from one dozen boiled crabs, warm the meat with 
a spoonful of butter in another pan, then pour it over the 
chicken, adding a few small pieces of fried ham. Season 
to taste and serve hot with dry boiled rice. 

Crab Meat au Gratin 

Add to the crab meat of a dozen crabs three quarters of 
a cup of fine dry bread crumbs, a gill of melted butter, an 
egg beaten in a half cup of milk, half a cup of cream, half 
saltspoon of pepper, a saltspoon of salt, and a tablespoon of 
grated English cheese. Fill well buttered ramekins with 
the mixture, sprinkling a little more cheese and a dash of 
paprika on top of each, bake a delicate brown, and serve 
garnished with cress and with hot finger rolls. 

Soft-Shell Crabs 

To prepare the soft-shell crab take it in two fingers 
and on the under side insert the thumb nail under the 



Shell Fish 137 

point of the apron, open and pull it off. Rinse the crabs 
in cold water, dip them into beaten egg, roll in cracker 
crumbs, dust lightly with pepper and salt, and plunge them 
in boiling fat. Cover and cook about ten minutes. When 
done drain them on brown paper, lay them on toast sippets 
on a hot platter, garnishing with parsley and lemon quarters- 
Serve tartare sauce with the crabs. 

Soft-Shell Crabs Italian Way 

Take six large soft-shell crabs, clean and rinse them, and 
lay them in one pint of milk. Add three beaten eggs and 
allow them to remain until they absorb the liquid. Lift 
them out, roll in fine crumbs, and fry as usual. 

A comparatively newcomer to our fish markets is the 
big English hard shelled crab whose weight is greater than 
a large lobster and who yields sufficient meat for a salad 
which plentifully supplies four portions. The meat is a 
trifle stronger in flavor than our smaller domestic crabs, 
the only other crab meat which approaches it is that of the 
crab from- the Pacific coast which now quite regularly ap- 
pears in our markets and is but a bit smaller than his 
English cousin. 

SHRIMP AND CRAWFISH 

These are usually sold boiled and are capable of being 
made into any of the dishes wherein lobster or crabs figure. 
The crawfish appears oftener in the garnishes used for 
various fish dishes, than in dishes made of itself. 

Creamed Shrimp 

Make a rich cream sauce and add to it a pint of pickled 
cold boiled shrimp, broken in halves. Before using the 
shrimp let them stand one hour in the juice of half a lemon, 
juice of one onion, a wineglass of sherry, a saltspoon of 
pepper, and the same quantity of salt. When ready let 
them drain for ten minutes, then add them to the cream 
sauce. Serve them on toast squares that have been 



138 SKell FisH 

sprinkled with grated cheese, pepper and salt, and heated 
hot in the oven. 

Scalloped Shrimp 

Take two cups of freshly boiled shrimp and break 
them into small pieces; make a highly seasoned cream 
sauce; add a tablespoon of cracker dust to the shrimp 
and put them into the cream. Fill buttered ramekins or 
baking shells with the mixture and bake till a delicate 
brown. Serve garnished with a slice of crisp bacon. and a 
spray of watercress. 

Shrimp Tarts 

Line separate tart pans with good pie crust and crimp 
the edges. Shell and break in pieces a quart of freshly 
boiled shrimp. Make a good rich cream sauce and put in 
the shrimp, season well and fill the tarts, dusting the top 
of each with a few fine crumbs, grated cheese, a dusting of 
pepper and salt. Put in the oven, and by the time the 
crust is done the filling will be brown on top. 

Spanish Fricasseed Shrimp 

Fry in butter one chopped onion, and three chopped 
tomatoes; when a delicate brown add one tablespoon of 
flour mixed smooth in a half a cup of water; when the sauce 
boils add one quart of boiled shrimp, a half teaspoon of 
salt, and a tablespoon of Worcestershire sauce, one beaten 
egg yolk; cover and cook about fifteen minutes, stirring 
occasionally so that it does not burn. Serve turned into 
the center of a ring of boiled rice. 

MOLLUSKS 

Oysters 

September marks the annual return of oysters to the 
menu, and they are always welcome. No other viand 
seems to take just their place, though the clam does its 
best to fill in the vacation period. Oysters are not only 



SKell Fish . 139 

serviceable used on the half shell, in sauce, roasted, stewed, 
and fried, but in numberless ways they may be prepared 
to form a course by themselves. 

If one has a cool cellar in which they may be stored, they 
are better when bought in quantity in the shell and they 
will keep for a long time covered with damp seaweed or 
sprinkled with wet cornmeal. If this is impossible, they 
should be opened by the fish dealer in order that the cus- 
tomer may have them at their best. 

The oyster requires very little cooking, and if used in 
stew it should only be dropped in for a couple of minutes 
until the beard curls, then removed instantly from the 
fire. If the oysters are to be broiled, the gridiron 
should be thoroughly, warmed, so that they may cook 
quickly without drying when they are put over the heat. 
If they are fried, the batter should be very delicate and 
the fat very hot, so that they may fry quickly. The 
habit of adding cornmeal to the batter makes too coarse 
and heavy a coating for the delicate texture of the oyster. 
They are best when simply dusted with fine cracker crumbs 
just before being dropped into the hot fat, using no 
batter at all. 

Raw on the half shell is a most popular way of serving 
them, with lemon, tabasco, or horseradish sauce. Spiced or 
pickled, two on a tiny round of toast with a few drops of 
anchovy sauce, they make a most acceptable relish. In 
the familiar cocktail they masquerade under the highly 
seasoned cloak of tomato sauce. 

Delicately broiled on heavy white paper and placed on 
toast sippets, with melted butter, they make a dainty 
addition to the invalid's tray. In the dry stew, Boston 
stew and milk stew they are equally good. 

Roasted over the outdoor log fire they are most popular 
for beach party refreshments on early fall nights, when corn 
roasts have gone out of season. A large oyster rolled up 
in a thin slice of bacon, pinned with a wooden skewer and 
delicately fried, served with toast, fingers and cress, are the 



140 Shell Fish 

little "pigs in blankets" that are so inviting to the fitful 
appetite of the epicure for breakfast on the dawn of the 
"morning after." 

Creamed, they are very inviting if the cream is richly 
made. Scalloped oysters are nice baked in the baking 
shells or the little ramekins. In salads, sandwiches, patties, 
fried and served in turkey stuffing the oyster's use is well 
known to nearly all cooks. 

Oysters k la Newburg are quite popular for the chafing 
dish suppers, and the following is a good recipe for them : — 
Stew three dozen oysters in their own liquor with a pinch 
of salt until the edges curl, then drain them and add two 
tablespoons of sherry to the cream made by heating a 
gill of cream and thickening it with a tablespoon of flour 
rubbed into two ounces of butter, add the hard-boiled yolks 
of three eggs rubbed smooth in a little cream, stir until all 
is thick and smooth, then add the wine and oysters, and serve 
hot, adding salt and pepper to taste. 

Oyster Loaf 

Take one well-shaped loaf of baker's bread, slice off the 
top lengthways, carefully remove the crumb from it and 
draw through two little slits a wide white satin ribbon which 
ties in a big bow on the top. Deftly hollow out the bottom 
of the loaf, leaving a quarter-inch crust entirely around and 
on the bottom of the loaf. Crumple tissue paper and fill 
the loaf with it, put on the cover and set it aside in a cool 
place; this is done so that the loaf wiU not lose its shape. 
When ready for service remove the paper, fill the loaf with 
rich creamed oysters and send to the table garnished with 
parsley. 

Baked Oyster Newburg 

Make a rich Newburg sauce, and when it is thoroughly 
smooth and at boiling point add a solid quart of oysters 



Shell Fish 141 

that have been carefully wiped dry on a linen towel. Let 
them boil up once, then turn into a buttered casserole 
baking dish, sprinkle over the top a tablespoon of very fine 
bread crumbs, a tablespoon of grated English cheese and a 
little paprika, and brown lightly in the oven. Serve hot or 
cold with hot biscuits and fresh butter. A tablespoon of 
sherry improves the flavor. 

Oysters Baked in Tomatoes 

Take as many large firm tomatoes as there are portions 
to be served, cut and hollow out the stem end. Take enough 
small bluepoint oysters to allow four to each tomato, add 
for each four oysters a teaspoon of bread crumbs, a half tea- 
spoon of grated cheese, a few drops of onion juice and half 
a teaspoon of finely chopped celery. Fill the tomatoes 
with the mixture, place them in a buttered baking dish and 
turn over each a teaspoon of melted butter; dust lightly 
with a little bit of flour and bake until tender, but not until 
the tomato falls. Garnish with fried parsley. 

Oyster and Com Scallop 

Cut the kernels from eight ears of fresh, tender corn, 
add to them two gills of melted butter, one gill of sweet 
cream, two tablespoons of sugar, a saltspoon of pepper, 
half a teaspoon of salt, and two well beaten eggs. Butter 
a baking dish, put in a layer of the corn, then a layer of 
oysters. Have ready four slices of pickled pork that 
has been diced and fried a delicate brown, dot the oysters 
with the pork and dust with a tablespoon of fine bread 
crumbs; put on another layer of the corn mixture, then 
the oysters and pork with the crumbs, and so on until 
the dish is filled. If the dish seems a little dry add a 
little more sweet cream, then dust the top lightly with 
grated cheese and bake. 



142 Shell Fish 

Oyster Pie 

Line a deep pie plate with pie crust. Make a cream saiice, 
not too thick, and put into it a pint of solid oysters. Fill 
the pie with the creamed oysters, put on the top crust and 
bake a delicate brown. This makes a very nice entree. 
Cut the pie in squares instead of the usual wedge-shaped 
pieces, and serve a tablespoon of whipped cream on top 
of each portion, dusting with a little pepper and salt. 

Oyster Croquettes 

Take three dozen fresh oysters, strain off the liquor and 
set it aside. Chop the oysters and mix them with an equal 
quantity of cold boiled, chopped chicken and six chopped 
mushrooms. Put them into a saucepan, add the liquor 
and one teaspoon of worcestei'shire sauce, two beaten eggs, 
and two tablespoons of cream, salt and pepper to taste. 
Stir and cook until the mixture thickens, then set it aside to 
cool. When cold form into croquettes, roll in egg and 
cracker dust, fry in hot fat and serve garnished with parsley 
and crisp slices of fried bacon. 

Oyster Bundles 

Make some good pie crust, roll out thin, and cut into 
strips six inches long by three inches wide. Lay on each 
strip a slice of bacon, one good-sized oyster and a teaspoon 
of the following sauce: Take a cup of cold boiled shrimp, 
mince very fine and add to it a teaspoon of Worcestershire 
sauce, a teaspoon of finely chopped tarragon leaves, a des- 
sertspoon of chutney syrup, a little melted butter, and a 
very stiffly beaten egg white. Lay a teaspoon of this on each 
oyster, roll up the bundles , put them in well buttered baking 
dishes, and bake until the crust is done. Have ready a 
rich, heavy, smooth tomato sauce, and put a small quantity 
on each bundle as it is served. 



SKell Fish 143 

Escalloped Oysters 

In making the escalloped oysters, take one quart of 
oysters as solid as it is possible to get them; drain and dry 
them on cheesecloth folders. Butter a baking dish, then 
lay in alternate layers of oysters and fresh cracker dust, 
covering each layer with little pieces of butter, and a sprink- 
ling of pepper and salt. Proceed this way until the dish 
is filled, the top layer being crumbs. Add the lumps of 
butter on the top, a cup of the liquor from the oysters, 
and two gills of cream. Bake in a moderate oven until it is 
delicately brown on top. Serve in the dish in which it is 
baked, folding a napkin about the dish to make it more 
sightly. Olives, celery, and little hot biscuits, quick or 
raised, should be offered with this course. 

Bombay Oysters 

Select large frying oysters, allowing four to a portion. 
Broil the oysters on a well buttered grill and then lay them 
on a shallow buttered baking pan. Have ready a cup of 
minced chicken seasoned with a half saltspoon of pepper, 
a saltspoon of salt, a tablespoon of chutney syrup, a table- 
spoon of melted butter, a tablespoon of cream, and the 
stiffly beaten white of an egg. Mix thoroughly and put a 
spoonful on the top of each oyster, and then let them 
brown lightly in the oven. Serve on hot plates on thinly 
sliced pieces of buttered toast, pour over each portion a little 
cream sauce made not too thick, and garnish with a spray of 
parsley. 

Curried Oysters 

Curried oysters are made by taking the liquor of one quart 
of oysters, heat it and thicken with two tablespoons of flour 
rubbed into two tablespoons of butter and one teaspoon of 
curry powder. When thickened add the oysters, let simmer 
five minutes, being careful it does not burn, and serve. 



144 Shell Fish 

Oyster Shortcake 

Make a good shortcake and bake in pie plates. WMle 
it is baking, stew three dozen oysters in their own liquor 
until the edges curl; make a rich cream sauce, the same as 
for creamed oysters; drain, add them to it, and season well. 
Split the shortcake and pour the mixture between and over 
it. Do not neglect to butter the layers well before adding 
the oysters. 

CLAMS 

Too often after oysters come back into season is the 
humble clam, relegated to the background, and seldom met 
except in the chowder. The clam is too useful and too 
moderate in price to be neglected. The large round clam 
is generally opened and chopped for chowder use. Soft 
clams sold by the string are sometimes used for chowder 
and sometimes for frying, or they are chopped and used 
for fritters. The thin-shelled long clams are the ideal 
"steamers." Clams may be had all year round. 

There is a square cloth bag fastened with snap catches 
designed for steaming clams so that they may be drained 
and sent to table right in the bag. The clams are tho- 
roughly washed and scrubbed with a brush and lukewarm 
water before being put into the bag, so that they are free 
from sand. The bags may easily be made at home to hold 
single portions of one dozen each or large enough for the 
family supply. 

Baked Clams 

Steam open enough small, round clams to allow seven to 
each ramekin, add to them a cup of bread crumbs, a salt- 
spoon of pepper, a saltspoon of salt, a gill of melted butter, 
the juice of an onion, tablespoon of Worcestershire sauce, a 
teaspoon of English mustard, teaspoon of chopped tarragon 
leaves, one beaten egg and a gill of cream. Fill well buttered 



SKell FisK 145 

ramekins with the mixture and bake a delicate brown; 
serve hot. 

Escalloped Clams 

For this dish the clams should be opened like oysters, 
and fifty medium sized ones will be needed. Butter a 
baking dish, then put in a layer of clams, then a thin layer 
of dried cnmibs, dust with pepper and dot with little lumps 
of butter. Proceed this way until all the clams are used 
up, then turn over all a rich but thin cream sauce, dust the 
top with a little grated cheese, and bake for half an hour. It 
will take a cup and a half of the sauce, perhaps a little 
more — ^it must be judged by the dish quantity, as it should 
come up nearly to the top of the mixture. 

Clam Pie 

Steam open, after thoroughly washing the shells, four 
dozen round clams. Make a rich cream sauce, not too 
thick, and add the clams to it; add a half saltspoon of celery 
salt, the juice of one onion and a half saltspoon of mignon- 
ette pepper. Have ready as many large ramekins lined 
with good pie crust as are needed for the number to be 
served; fill them with the mixtiu-e and put on the top 
crust, which should be perforated with a silver fork. Bake 
until the crust is done. These pies should be cooled 
naturally but never chilled. 

Curried Clams 

Steam open sufficient clams to allow six or more to a 
portion. Make a good curry sauce, and when done drop 
the clams into it, boil up once to heat them, then serve on 
toast garnished with pimento olives. In proportion only 
a level teaspoon of the curry powder should be used for a 
pint of cream sauce. 
9 



146 Shell Fish 

MUSSELS 

In the sea mussel we have a shell-fish as palatable as the 
oyster, much more nutritious, and more digestible. It 
contains only half as much waste as the oyster, is more 
abundant, and is adapted for making a great variety of 
food combinations. Furthermore, it is in season for the 
table when the oyster is out 'of season. 

Mussels may be eaten plain if desired, in which case they 
are prepared by washing them well and then placing in a 
pan with slices of onions and a little chopped parsley. 
After being on the fire ten minutes, by which time all the 
shells will have opened, they should be removed, the beard 
and black portion cut off, and they are then ready to eat in 
their own juice. 

Buttered Mussels 

If fresh, steam a quart of mussels open, remove from the 
shells and saut6 in a gill of butter, pepper and salt for two 
or three minutes until they curl; then serve on slices of 
toast garnished with fresh cress. If bottled, drain carefully 
and remove the whole spices that are often in them, rinse 
through cold water, wipe dry on a linen cloth, then saut6 in 
the butter, adding a generous dash of red pepper, and a 
pinch of salt, and serve on toast in the same way. 

SCALLOPS 

In our markets during the scallop season two kinds ap- 
pear. The very large, deep sea scallops which are used for 
soups, in chowders, or chopped to use in made fish dishes are 
stronger in flavor and tougher in fiber than the smaller scal- 
lops which are sweet in flavor and tender. The latter 
usually appear in Newburgs, stews, fries, and salads. 

Scallops en Casserole 

Drain and dry a quart of large scallops; then dip them in 
beaten egg and roll them in some very fine crumbs that 



SHell FisK 147 

have a little grated cheese, a saltspoon of pepper, and a 
half teaspoon of salt added to them. Heap them in a 
buttered casserole dish and turn over them the same cream 
sauce as is used with the codfish tongues. If the quantity 
of the sauce seems insufficient, add an extra gill of cream. 
If desired, a wineglass of sherry may be added. 

SNAILS 

The use of snails as food is practically unknown in this 
country, but it is common in Europe, especially in France 
and Austria, and has been introduced here to some extent 
by immigrants from those countries. 

When the snails are gathered from the woods or in the 
open country it is not considered altogether safe to use 
them for food immediately. The reason for this lies in the 
fact that the snails are likely to feed upon all sorts of 
plants and cases of poisoning have been known. It is 
customary, therefore, to keep them for a time in enclosures 
where they may be properly fed and cared for until ready 
for market. 

The enclosure is usually divided by narrow paths, between 
which is strewn a layer of moss, in which the snails seek 
shelter from the sun and from changes of temperature. 

The food provided for snails in captivity consists mainly 
of lettuce, endive, cabbage, dandelion leaves, and chopped 
kohlrabi. These vegetables are raised on a considerable 
scale for this purpose. The food is laid upon the moss, 
and care must be taken to remove all portions of decayed 
food and other undesirable matter — a precaution essential 
to the health of the snail. 

The snails are gathered during the summer and kept in 
the preserves until the later autumn season. They are 
seasonable in June, July, and August for table use. 

The snail in France is classed much the same as the 
oyster is in America, used as an entree, tidbit, or delicacy. 
In smart restaurants and hotels they sell, prepared as an 



148 Shell Fish 

entree at thirty or forty cents a plate, washed down by the 
choicest of French wine. As many as five thousand of 
the best large white ones are used a day in a popular restau- 
rant, while from ten to twelve thousand of the cheaper 
grade are used during the twenty-four hours. The Bur- 
gundy snails are sent to market cooked. They are taken at 
their dormant season, they are carefully picked over, dead 
ones thrown aside and the epiphragms (the covering with 
which they protect the opening of their shell in winter) 
and they are then put into running water until thoroughly 
cleansed, then they are boiled in salted water. When done 
they are picked from their shells chopped to a paste and 
seasoned with chopped chervil, parsley, and shalots, then 
put between thin slices of sweet butter. After the shells 
are scrubbed white and are thoroughly dried they are 
stuffed with the mixture, packed and sent to regular cus- 
tomers in the required numbers. 

Another favorite way of cooking the snails is to cleanse 
them and boil them for five minutes in the shell, then re- 
move them from the shells and boil them two hours. 
When done they are chopped and then delicately seasoned, 
and the shells having been cleaned, they are stuffed, and a 
plug of the fresh butter worked to a paste with the chopped 
parsley, shalots, and seasoning. When ready for serving 
the snails may be heated in a pan for five minutes which 
melts the butter that flavors the meat, they are sent to 
table on a hot dish and are eaten with a two-pronged fork. 

Still another way is to make the k la Bordelaise and add 
it to the chopped snail meat prepared as directed, then 
spread the mixture on toast rounds and bake a little while 
in the oven. The sauce is made of red wine, butter, garlic, 
and seasoning. 

The escargots or edible snails sold in America are sent 
here alive in casks from Europe, but it is claimed by the 
department of agriculture that the Mississippi Valley would 
be ideal in every way for raising snails and that snaileries 
established there would be a paying investment. Snails 



Shell Fish 149 

are really more wholesome than oysters for they feed 
daintily on clean vegetable tissues, while oysters must 
take their nourishment from whatever water they are 
placed in, whether pure or impure. 



ENTREES 

The art of entree making is one that has to be carefully 
studied by the at-home cook, but when once mastered 
means the knowledge of using left-overs to the best advan- 
tage, as well as the ability of knowing how to use fresh 
things economically. The entr6e always adds the little 
touch of elegance to the simplest meal that removes it 
from the commonplace. 

The so-called made dish is one of the secrets of the 
French woman's economy. To use up left-overs in an 
appetizing way is a long step towards reducing the cost of 
living. 

Among these entries are many dishes which may be 
selected for breakfast or luncheon use; the selection being 
made according to the grade of left-overs from the day 
before. 

Madeira Kidneys 

Take one dozen kidneys, skin and cut them partly in 
two; put on in cold water and let slowly come to boiling; 
pour off the water and add fresh, repeating this four times; 
then add one onion, a bay leaf, two cloves, and a pepper, 
and let them boil until tender. Have ready a brown sauce 
made of one pound of round steak cut in small squares, a 
soup bunch cut fine and covered with enough water to 
fill the pan; cover and simmer for an hour, while the kidneys 
are cooking; then strain and thicken with flour and butter 
creamed together; add a teaspoon of salt, a saltspoon of 
pepper, six seeded raisins and a wineglass of madeira wine; 
add when the sauce is ready, turn altogether and serve 

150 



Entrees 151 

on toast sippets, garnished with parsley. Kidneys are 
cheap, and when properly cooked are tasty in an entree. 

Dutch Croquettes 

Take one cup of chopped pecan nuts, two cups of fine 
bread crumbs, a quarter saltspoon of pepper, a half teaspoon 
of salt, one beaten egg, juice of an onion, teaspoon of 
Worcestershire sauce, a tablespoon of melted butter and 
enough sweet cream to make the mixture into a consistency 
to mold into croquettes. Form the croquettes into any 
desired shapes, dust them with flour, lay them on a floured 
plate and set them in a cool place until it is time to use them. 
Fry them in deep hot fat, drain and serve them in a napkin 
garnished with parsley and lemon quarters. 

Mock Chicken Cutlet 

For the mock chicken cutlet, grind two cups of bread 
crumbs with one cup of walnuts, add a tablespoon of onion 
juice, piece of butter, and a half saltspoon of mace. Thicken 
two cups of milk with butter and flour, rubbed to a paste. 
Add the other ingredients with a half teaspoon of salt, 
quarter saltspoon of pepper, a well beaten egg, and a tea- 
spoon of lemon juice. Stir well, then turn into dish to 
cool. Shape into cutlets, dip in egg and cracker dust and 
fry in butter a delicate brown. Garnish with parsley. 

A Company Luncheon Dish 

This rather troublesome dish is excellent for the luncheon 
fish course and is made by stewing a half pint of scallops 
in a quarter of a cup of butter, juice of a lemon and half a 
cup of white wine; twelve oysters cooked in their own 
liquor, four soft clams parboiled in a little salted water, 
three ounces of oyster crabs sauted in butter, and a cup of 
boiled lobster and crab meat flaked. Drain the scallops 
and oysters and mix all the sea fruit in the saucepan. 



152 Entrees 

Add to the drained liquors from the oysters and scallops 
four minced shalots and a teaspoon of chopped parsley, 
two mashed anchovies and two tablespoons of thick cream. 
Heat well, season to taste and strain over the sea fruit in 
a hot silver dish, and garnish with toast sippets and 
watercress. 

Lobster k la Militaire 

Sauce: Melt in chafing dish three quarters of a cup of 
butter. Add a small grated onion, half a lemon sliced thin, 
one clove, a quarter saltspoon of pepper, and a quarter 
teaspoon of salt, a wineglass of sherry, one bay leaf, and a 
tablespoon of tarragon vinegar. Let simmer for fifteen 
minutes. Then add the yolks of three well beaten eggs 
and stir carefully five minutes. Have the meat of one 
boiled lobster cut in small pieces. Place it in a hot dish 
and strain the sauce over it. Garnish with olives stuffed 
with pimentos. 

Chopped Calves' Liver 

Boil a pound of calves' liver and chop it just as fine as 
possible, season with a half teaspoon of salt, a half saltspoon 
of pepper, and plenty of butter, pile on toast squares and 
garnish with strips of crisp bacon. Upon each portion lay a 
poached egg. Delicately broiled potatoes are served with 
this dish. 

Sardine Omelet 

Beat five eggs and add to them one tablespoon of cream, 
a half teaspoon of salt, a quarter saltspoon of pepper, a tea- 
spoon of Worcestershire sauce and four sardines that have 
been skinned, boned and broken into small pieces. Dissolve 
two level tablespoons of butter in the omelet pan and 
when hot, pour in the omelet. Stir it constantly until it 
begins to set. Fold, and serve on a hot plate garnished 
with cress. 



Entries 153 

f 

* Sherry Tenderloin 

After cutting away all arteries and splitting open four 
lambs' hearts, boil in slightly salted water until very tender; 
chop fine and add one onion, a stalk of celery, one tart 
apple chopped fine, a half cup of bread crumbs, an egg well 
beaten, one half cup of melted butter, a half saltspoon of 
pepper, a quarter teaspoon of salt, and a wineglass of 
sherry wine. 

Have ready two pork tenderloins; spread the mixture 
between; fasten together by small skewers or with cord; 
place in baking pan; dust with pepper and salt; cover and 
roast until the meat is done (about a half hour), basting 
with a little melted butter and sherry very often; remove 
the cover and let brown; place on a platter and pour over 
the gravy made from the drippings and a little water added, 
thickened with browned flour. Garnish with slices of hard- 
boiled eggs and parsley. 

Polish Stewed Tongue 

Prepare a fresh tongue and boil in the usual way. Saut6 
a chopped onion and a little chopped pepper in butter; add 
a tablespoon of flour mixed smooth with a little of the 
water the tongue was boiled in, a cup and a half of the 
tongue water, a dash of nutmeg, a little cinnamon, two 
tablespoons of vinegar, a little thinly sliced lemon, and one 
tablespoon of stigar. Mix all ingredients thoroughly to- 
gether and allow them to boU up smooth; then add the 
tongue that has been skinned and diced, and serve turned 
around a pat of panned spinach. 

Deviled Oysters on Half-Shell 

Poach oysters in their own liquor, drain, saving the liquor 
for moistening highly seasoned sauce, made by creaming 
butter and flour, adding cream and oyster liquor, chopped 
parsley, saltspoon of dry mustard, saltspoon of salt, and a 



154 Entrees 

quarter saltspoon of pepper. Last of all beat in two egg 
yolks. Chop oysters, add to sauce, and fill into deep half 
of the oyster shells, covering with buttered bread crumbs. 
Place in oven until crumbs are brown. Serve two or three 
to a portion and garnish with lemon. 

Herring Roe, Madeira Sauce 

Remove the herring roe from the can, drain, and roll in 
fine cracker dust; fry it to a delicate brown in butter, drain, 
and garnish with fresh, crisp cress, drawing the sprays, 
through thin slices of lemon, and serve the following sauce 
in a silver boat. To one glass of cturant jelly add one glass 
of madeira wine, drop in three cloves, and when melted 
and hot, but not boiling, it is ready. 

Sausage k la Malaga 

From good puff paste cut two four-inch square pieces. 
Take two tablespoons of Boston sage sausage, -add a little 
extra seasoning, a tablespoon of cream, and a teaspoon of 
melted butter. Place half in each pastry square. Seed 
and wash one dozen large Malaga grapes, put half in each 
pastry, turn a teaspoon of honey over each, pinch the pas- 
try, and bake twenty minutes. Serve garnished with cress 
and sliced fried apple. 

Marron and Sweetbread Casserole 

Parboil one large pair of sweetbreads; when done trim 
and dice. Butter a meditmi-sized casserole and lay in the 
diced breads, add to them a cupful of drained button mush- 
rooms, and one dozen little pota,to balls cut with the cutter; 
slice in three trufHes. Have ready one pint of cooking mar- 
rons stewed until tender in their own liquor, then drained 
and mashed through a sieve; add to the pulp a gill of 
melted butter, a gill of cream, one grated onion, and a half 



Entrees 155 

cup of grated pineapple, a teaspoon of chutney syrup, a 
half saltspoon of pepper, a heaping saltspoon of salt, and, if 
a little thick, add a little more cream, then turn over the 
sweetbreads. Bake and serve. 



Creamed Sausages 

Parboil one pound and a half of pork sausages, drain, and 
cool. When cold remove the skins and cut the meat into 
one-inch lengths; make a rich cream sauce, put the sausages 
in, and leave them long enough to heat through. Serve 
on slices of toast garnished with sliced fried-apple rdimds. 

Savory Marrow Bones 

Have marrow bones cut the desired length and boil 
them in a linen cloth in fair water long enough to release 
the marrow, about fifteen minutes. Stuff the bones with 
a mixture of sweetbreads, mushrooms, the marrow, and 
savory seasoning, and bake in a moderate oven. When 
done, they may be fitted with a paper collar and a black 
ribbon tie, tied in a square bow, and a paper fool's cap, 
and served on lace paper doilies. 

Sausage Puffs 

From good puff paste, rolled the thickness of pie crust, cut 
foiu:-inch squares, as many as are needed for the portions 
that are to be served, allowing one or two extra. Take 
sausage meat and season it very highly, adding a tablespoon 
of chutney syrup to the mass, and use a tablespoon for the 
filling of each paste square, folding it nearly over so as to 
leave a little opening on top, in which place a large seeded 
layer raisin. Bake a delicate brown in the oven, serve 
on a hot platter garnished with cress and delicately sliced 
broiled potatoes. Serve with the puffs a dish of fresh apple 
sauce. 



156 Entrees 

Banana and French Sausage Croquettes 

Steam four large bananas until tender, then mash them 
fine, add to them one small can of the French sausage, 
add a small cup of fine crumbs and a saltspoon of salt, 
half as much mignonette pepper, a teaspoon of green mus- 
tard with fine herbs, a tablespoon of melted butter, and one 
beaten egg, roll into croquettes, dip in egg, then in crumbs, 
and fry in butter. Drain and serve with broiled veal 
cutlets. 

Kidneys and Brandied Brown Sauce 

Prepare as many kidneys as are required for the number 
of guests; put them to boil- in cold water; let them boil for 
two hotirs, changing the water seven times, and the last 
time throw in a spice bag, a half-cup of vinegar, a sliced 
onion, a pepper, and a half saltspoon of salt. When done 
remove and have ready a good brown sauce, made of one 
cup of beef stock and a cup of milk, thickened with flour 
and butter blended together, flavored with a small cup 
of sherry, one tablespoon of brandy, a dozen raisins, and 
six olives pared in curls from the stones. Serve very hot 
in covered dish. 

Toad in Hole 

Make a smooth batter of six ounces of flour, one pint 
of milk, and three eggs, beat smooth and turn into a well 
buttered baking dish. Into the batter lay a few slices of 
cold mutton which has been dusted with pepper and salt; 
add one dozen oysters and two dozen coarsely chopped 
button mushrooms, season, put a little butter over the top 
and bake. Send to table in the baking dish. 

Chicken Adrienne 

Take three thinly sliced .chicken livers, hearts, and giz- 
zards. Let them marinate in the juice of an onion, a tea- 



Entrees 157 

spoon of mustard sauce, the juice of a lemon, a half saltspoon 
of pepper, a half teaspoon of salt, and a bud of garlic for one 
hour. Drain, saut^ in butter, to which add a small wine- 
glass of sherry, four seeded raisins, and two truffles sliced 
thin. Take the breast of a boiled chicken, heat in the 
steamer, then butter lightly with pM^-de-foie-gras, and lay 
it on toast sippets. Ttuti the sauce over it, garnish with 
cress, and serve with hot rolls and currant jelly. 

Jellied Calves' Tongues 

Trim and boil until tender two fresh calves' tongues, sldn, 
and when cold lay in a wet mold, the heavy ends of the 
tongues at the ends of the mold. Have ready a tomato 
jelly made in the following way: One can of tomatoes, one 
sliced onion, a saltspoon of pepper, a half teaspoon of salt, 
a tablespoon of sugar, whites and shells of two eggs, two 
ounces of gelatine powder that has been dissolved in a little 
cold water, a tablespoon of vinegar, and three cups of water. 
Beat over the fire until it boils, then draw to one side and 
allow it to boil slowly for three minutes, then let it stand 
covered closely for five minutes, strain, and turn over the 
tongues. When cool set it near the ice to chill and become 
firm. When ready to serve turn on to a platter, garnish 
with fresh cress, and croutons spread thinly with p4t^-de- 
f oie-gras with a slice of truffle in the center of each. 

Savory Chipped Beef 

Take one jar, bottle, or box of the finest chipped beef; 
make a rich cream sauce, adding sufficient beef to serve 
the required portions, and garnish with toast sippets that 
have been lightly buttered and sprinkled with a little 
finely chopped watercress. 

Tripe a la Poulette 

Parboil a small quantity of tripe, drain, and cut into 
small pieces. Make a rich cream sauce highly seasoned, 



158 Entrees 

add the tripe and a teaspoon of finely chopped red pepper, 
and serve on toast garnished with crisp slices of bacon and 
fresh cress. Serve a dish of tart apple sauce with the 
entree. 

Scallop Blanquette 

Dip in egg and very fine crtunbs six deep-sea scallops, 
and fry in hot fat to a delicate brown, drain, and place in a 
shallow open casserole; have ready a Newburg sauce made 
with cream. Turn it over the scallops. Dust lightly with 
grated English cheese, set in a hot oven long enough to 
melt and brown the cheese, and serve with tiny hot rolls 
and apricot jam. 

Ham Mousse 

Coat a wet mold with aspic and allow it to set. Put one 
pound of cold boiled ham through the meat chopper, add 
to it a tablespoon of Worcestershire sauce, a tablespoon of 
chutney sjTrup, four tablespoons of liquid aspic, two cups 
of whipped cream; beat well and pour into the mold and 
cover with a layer of the aspic. When it is turned out to 
serve, garnish with parsley and radish roses. 

Frogs' Legs, Currant Sauce 

Prepare and fry four frogs' legs and lay them on buttered 
toast. Melt two tablespoons of currant jelly and add 
to it one tablespoon of madeira. Broil six mushrooms 
without the stems and lay them over the legs. Slice three 
truffles into the hot jelly, add pepper and salt, and turn it 
over the legs. Serve with hot raised biscuit and fresh 
radishes. 

Savory Cherokees 

Parboil in salted water one pair of sweetbreads. Cool, 
blanch, and cut in small pieces. Add three quarters of a 



Entrees 159 

cup of fresh, stoned cherries, a half cup of cracker dust, a 
tablespoon of grated cheese, a quarter saltspobn of pepper, a 
saltspoon of salt and beaten egg, a tablespoon of sherry to 
moisten the mixture, and fill well-buttered baking shells. 
Place a lump of butter on top and bake in moderate oven. 
Serve as entree, garnished with parsley. 

Chinese Fish 

Delicately broil half a flounder. Make a cup of brown 
sauce from rich stock and brown flour. Add to it six water 
chestnuts sliced thin, a teaspoon of finely chopped celery, 
and a slice of finely shredded fresh pineapple. Pry three 
Spanish peppers in oil, drain, lay on the fish, turn the 
sauce over it, garnish with beet roses and cress, and serve 
with pineapple and ginger jam. 

Baked Beans and Honey 

Bake the beans after soaking and boiling in the usual 
way in a small individual pot, using honey in place of 
molasses to brown and sweeten them. Serve hot with 
brown bread toast and stewed rhubarb. 

Liver Savory 

Take half a pound of calves' liver, boil until tender, chop 
very fine, add a tablespoon of melted currant jelly, a table- 
spoon of madeira, a quarter saltspoon of pepper, a half 
saltspoon of salt, four drops of onion juice, a pinch of savory 
herbs, and spread on a buttered toast square. Turn over 
it a tablespoon of asparagus tips moistened in melted but- 
ter. Serve with cucumber jelly and Parker House rolls. 

Liver and Apple Rounds 

BoU a half pound of calves' liver until tender, then chop 
fine, season with a half saltspoon of pepper, a half teaspoon 
of salt, and heat in a generous lump of melted butter; 



i6o Entrees 

when hot, add two tablespoons of apple sauce and spread 
on a toast round, then lay another round on top with a 
spoonful of currant jelly in the center of it. 

' Tongue Turnovers 

Boil, skin, and dice two calves' tongues; make a well- 
flavored tomato sauce, and marinate the tongue in it as it 
cools. Make a puff paste, cut in square shape, as for apple 
turnovers, fill with the mixture, and bake a delicate brown. 
Serve hot, garnished with watercress. 

I 
Tripe h la Creole 

Cut the tripe into strips three inches long and an inch 
and a half wide, using about a pound and a half. Fry one 
onion in butter, add to it a cupful of stock, a finely chopped 
pepper, a ta]Dlespoon of Worcestershire sauce, and six 
button mushrooms sliced. Thicken with butter and flour 
rubbed to a cream; season and add the tripe. Cook ten 
minutes and serve hot garnished with toast sippets. 

Sweetbread Olives 

Parboil a large pair of sweetbreads; when cold chop 
very fine, with two cold-boiled chicken livers, add a table- 
spoon of cold fried bread crumbs that were carefully drained, 
juice of an onion, teaspoon of Worcestershire sauce, a tea- 
spoon of fiaiely ground nutmeats, a tablespoon of cream 
to bind the mixture; then mold into little olives about two 
inches long and an inch thick. Have individual molds 
lined with aspic, allow two olives to a portion with a table- 
spoon of vegetable mac^doine carefully drained and a table- 
spoon of Madagascar sauce, filling the mold with aspic. 
Chill, and when ready to serve turn on to lettuce leaves 
and garnish with a spray of cress and a radish rose. If not 
convenient to purchase the Madagascar sauce, heavy 
mayonnaise will do. 



Entrees l6i 

Sweetbreads a la Port 

Parboil a fresh large pair of sweetbreads in slightly salted 
water for twenty minutes; when done cut into small pieces 
and add a tablespoon of butter, a quarter saltspoon of 
pepper, a half teaspoon of salt, two tablespoons of cracker 
dust, and one beaten egg. Melt a quarter glass of currant 
jelly with a wine glass of good port wine and add to the 
mixture. Fill little ramekins that have been lightly 
buttered and grate a little cheese over the top of each. 
Bake a delicate brown and garnish with fresh cress and a 
slice of lemon. 

Sweetbreads and Mushrooms 

Take one pound of fresh mushrooms, peel, and use the 
tops only — the stems may be used in soup. Fry to a deli- 
cate brown in butter, seasoned with pepper and salt. 
Have ready a pair of sweetbreads that have been parboiled 
and blanched; dice and mix with the mushrooms. Make 
baskets of good pastry, shaping over patty pans; fill them 
with the mixture, sprinkling a little grated cheese on top 
and pinching on the handle. Bake fifteen minutes, serve 
on a doily, and garnish with a spray of fresh cress. 

Entree with Sweetbreads 

Another attractive entrde is of sweetbread foundation. 
After parboiling a pair of sweetbreads, cut them fine, add a 
tablespoon of chopped celery, another of nuts, another of 
crumbs, juice of an onion, a saltspoon each of pepper 
and salt, a wineglass of sherry, a teaspoon of sugar, and 
a cup of smooth apple sauce. Roll out some pie crust 
and cut into squares; fill with the sweetbread mixture and 
fold like apple dumplings, putting a generous piece of 
butter in each. Bake a delicate brown in medium oven 
and serve garnished with cress and a tiny mold of mint 
jelly. 



1 62 Entrees 

NOVEL USES OF PATE SHELLS 

Good pastry pit^ shells should be used by the at-home 
cook much more frequently than they are, for they are 
capable of so many variations in different fillings, either 
made from left-overs or from new material, that they are 
well worth her consideration. The use of p3,t& means 
individual service, which is always economy in both food 
and labor, no bread or rolls being necessary with them. 

The ptt6 shells, if purchased from a baker, must be made 
by one who thoroughly understands the art; they should 
be of fine crust, not necessarily of puff paste, but crust 
which, if it is cooled, will bear heating again without becoming 
oily or indigestible. If the shells are homemade they are 
usually better than those one can purchase, though it takes 
a little knack in learning to shape them. The best 
butter, fresh lard, sweet milk, icewater, and pastry flour 
insure the best paste, and many good cooks think that a 
tiny bit of baking powder in the pie crust gives it lightness 
and fine texture. 

Codfish Tongue Pite 

Secure six meditmi-size codfish tongues, parboil them 
until tender, and when done trim and dice them. Add to 
them two coarsely diced hard-boiled eggs, one finely minced 
red pepper, and six chopped olives. Make a cream sauce 
and add the tongue, and just before taking the mixture from 
the fire add half a glass of sherry. Fill pkt6 shells and 
heat. Garnish the pat6s with fresh cress. 

Sweetbread Pit6 

Parboil, blanch, and dice a large pair of sweetbreads. 
Take one cup of button mushrooms, chop them coarsely, 
slice six truffles into thin slices and add these to the sweet- 
breads. For the sauce squeeze the juice of one large lemon 
into the saucepan and add to it a lump of butter the size 



Entrees 163 

of a hen's egg; when melted together add a saltspoon of 
bicarbonate of soda and a cup of cold cream. Mix a table- 
spoon of cornstarch in half a cup of milk and add this also 
to the sauce and stir until the mixture is as thick as cold 
honey; add a quarter saltspoon of cayenne pepper, half a 
teaspoon of salt, and a teaspoon of onion juice, then add the 
sweetbread mixture and allow all to cook gently for five 
minutes. If it should be a little too thick add a little plain 
cream. When done fill the p^t^ shells with it and heat. 
Garnish with olive curls lightly spread with anchovy 
paste. 

Macedoine Vegetable P&t6 

Open and drain one bottle of mac6doine of vegetables, 
add to them a teaspoon of chopped parsley and a teaspoon of 
chopped tarragon leaves. Make the sauce in the following 
way: Pare and slice six onions, fry them in two ounces of 
butter a delicate brown; when done and a good color, pour 
over them a pint of good rich stock, add a quarter saltspoon 
of pepper, a saltspoon of salt, and a little savory seasoning, 
then let all simmer gently until the onions are very tender. 
Then put through a sieve, put it back in the saucepan, and 
add the vegetables; let all boil up for five minutes until 
heated thoroughly. If the gravy seems a little thin add a 
little browned flour made smooth in a little water. When 
done fill the pit6 shells with the mixture, heat and serve 
garnished with a sweet pickled pimento. 

Oyster Pite 

Make the cream first after the following rule: Melt a 
large tablespoon of butter, add to it the juice of half a 
lemon and a level saltspoon of bicarbonate of soda. While 
it is foaming up add a cup of rich milk or part cream, in 
which a teaspoon of cornstarch has been dissolved. 
Stir carefully until it is the proper consistency, taking care 



164 Entrees 

that it does not burn, then set aside to keep warm. Scald 
the oysters in their own liquor and when the edges curl, in 
a couple of minutes, they are done. Drain them careftilly 
and add them to the hot cream, with salt and pepper to 
taste, and fill the ipkti shells garnishing with parsley. This 
fills six shells. 

Duck Patg 

Take the remains of a large roast duck that has already 
served as a meal and cut the meat from the rack in very 
fine pieces. Add to this a half saltspoon of pepper, a half 
teaspoon of salt, and a half saltspoon of mignonette pepper; 
put into a stewpan one onion cut in thin slices with a half 
pint of white stock, with four strips of lemon peel, five leaves 
of sweet basil and let all simmer gently for a quarter of 
an hour, then add the juice of a large orange and that 
of half a lemon and one glass of port wine. When it has 
boiled up strain and put it back into the saucepan, add the 
meat and two thinly sliced truffies, heat again, and when it 
reaches boiling point if the sauce seems too thin add a 
little browned flour mixed smoothly with a little water. 
Fill the p^t^ shells with the mixture and garnish with a 
spray of fresh cress. 

Tuna Fish and Pineapple P3.t€ 

Free one can of tuna fish from all skin and bone and flake 
it; grate one medium-sized sweet pineapple and add it to the 
fish. Take one cup of dry bread crumbs and fry them a 
delicate brown in butter, stirring them constantly so that 
they are evenly done; drain them carefully and add them to 
the fish. Next make a good English brown sauce with a 
pound of round steak diced, one sliced onion, bunch of 
savory herbs, diced carrot, potato, two cloves, spray of 
parsley, and let all simmer until the goodness is all extracted 
from the meat; strain, then put back into the saucepan, 
and thicken with a little browned flour and butter mixed to 



Entrees 165 

paste. When the right consistency, add the fish and pine- 
apple with the crumbs, let all boil up once and then fill the 
pit6 shells with the mixture. Serve garnished with a little 
finely chopped red pepper. 

Tripe Creole Pates 

Wash and cut enough honeycomb tripe into small pieces 
to fill three cups, place it in a clean linen cloth, and wring 
the water out of it. Melt two tablespoons of butter and 
add one tablespoon of chopped onion, cook tmtil slightly 
browned, then add two tablespoons of finely chopped green 
pepper and one half a chopped red pepper. Add one 
tablespoon of flour, one cup of red stock, a half cup of 
drained tomato juice, a tablespoon of Worcestershire sauce, 
six button mushrooms sliced, pepper, salt to taste, a table- 
spoonofchutneysyrup, and let all boil for five minutes, then 
add the tripe and simmer gently for ten minutes more or 
until the tripe is done. Fill the p§Lt€ shells and garnish 
each with a slice of fried tomato. 

Salad pate 

Free one heavy grapefruit from the white skin and break 
the pulp into pieces; wash, halve and stone enough white 
grapes to make two cups and add them to the grapefruit 
with a half cup of chopped pecan nuts and one cup of 
chopped pineapple; put the entire mixture into a white 
enamel strainer to drain and chill. Chop enough white 
celery to make one cup and cut one white lettuce heart 
into strips with the kitchen scissors. Have ready a cup of 
mayonnaise made with walnut oil, and just before serving 
toss the salad lightly in the mayonnaise and then fill the 
pate shells with it. Take a little of the mayonnaise and 
add to it a little whipped cream and put a spoonful of this 
on top of each pkt6 and sprinkle with a dash of paprika. 
This mixture should fill six pdt^ shells. Serve cold. 



l66 Entrees 

Cucumber and Liver Pite 

Take one pound of calves' liver, wash and boil it until 
very tender in fair water, then chop fine. Peel, quarter, and 
remove the seeds from three cucumbers, slice them then in 
meditun slices, throw them into boiling water and keep it 
at boiling point for ten minutes, strain, and dry them with a 
soft cloth. Melttwoouncesof butterand put the cucumbers 
into it, stirring them constantly until they are a good color, 
then pour over them a small cup of brown gravy and add 
a quarter saltspoon of pepper, a saltspoon of salt, and the 
juice of an onion, and simmer gently for ten minutes, then 
add a tablespoon of chutney syrup. Fry one small cup 
of bread crumbs in butter, drain, and add them to the 
liver with four thinly sliced truffles; now add the liver 
mixture to the sauce and heat all together, bringing them to 
boiling point. Fill the pkt6 shells with the mixture, 
garnishing each with currant jelly. 

Pineapple Pates 

Take two cups of preserved pineapple, drain it, and add 
to it half a cup of preserved ginger chopped and enough 
ginger syrup to moisten the mixture, then add one table- 
spoon each of finely powdered macaroon and chopped 
pecan nuts. Fill the pkti shells with this mixture, heap 
them with whipped cream, place a tiny green preserved 
melon on the top. Serve cold. 

Banana Pites 

Take one cup of vanilla syrup and one cup of honey and 
melt them together; take eight medium-sized bananas, cut 
them in thick slices, add them to the syrup with the juice 
of a lemon, the thinly pared rind, and four cloves; let all 
simmer together until the bananas are thoroughly done. 
When cooked let cool, then fill the p^t6 shells with the ba- 
nana and as much juice as it will hold, removing the cloves 



Entrees 167 

and lemon peel. Heap with whipped cream and garnish 
with a candied cherry. Serve cold. 

Plum pate 

Halve and stone enough blue plums after washing them 
to allow fqur halves to a pkti. Make a good vanilla S3nnip, 
then cook the plum halves in it until they are thoroughly 
done and the syrup has cooked down rich and heavy, add 
a half cup of blanched, coarsely chopped almonds and a 
tablespoon of blanched pistachio nuts and a tablespoon of 
stoned and chopped raisins. When cool fill the pit& 
and heap them with whipped cream that has been colored 
a delicate green by a little breton coloring. This pit^ may 
be chilled or it may be served hot with the whipped cream 
added in either case at the last moment. Peaches may be 
used in the same way as the plums if they are better liked. 

Poached Eggs a la Reine 

Dice the white meat of a boiled chicken and put it into a 
rich cream sauce. Fill hot pit^ shells with the mixture 
and lay a poached egg on top of each, covering it with some 
of the cream sauce set aside for the purpose. Garnish 
with sprays of parsley and serve hot as soon as the egg is 
placed on the pat6. 

Ham Patties in Aspic 

Chop just as fine as possible enough boiled ham to fill 
two cups; season to taste; add a tablespoon of Worcester- 
shire sauce, a tablespoon of chopped nutmeats, and one 
beaten egg to bind the mixture. Shape into patties, roll in 
heavy mayonnaise, cover with aspic, and garnish the top 
with a truffle. 

FRITTERS 

Fritters can be served as a vegetable or as a sweet course 
for luncheon, dinner, or supper, and they often serve a very 



1 68 Entrees 

convenient purpose. Whether they are sweet or plain the 
foundation batter is much the same. The fat in which they 
are to be fried must always be the very freshest and best 
that can be procured, and if it is to be used a second time it 
must be carefully strained through cheesecloth wrung out of 
hot water and laid inside the fine sieve. This insures the 
perfect cleanliness of the grease for a second using. It is a 
good idea if fritters are liked and used very often to keep 
a small lard pail with tight-fitting cover ready which may be 
freshly scalded to receive the left-over and strained grease. 

Of course the lard in which vegetable fritters have been 
fried cannot be used for frying sweet fritters, for it is sure 
to have become tainted with the vegetable flavor. The 
lard used for sweet fritters may, however, be used later for 
frying vegetables. 

The sweet fritters are best served, after draining, in a 
napkin. The sauce that goes with them may be served in 
a little tureen. If the fritters are served as a garnish they 
are placed around the platter, while the vegetable fritters 
if served with a heavy sauce are placed upon a platter by 
themselves and prettily garnished. 

This foundation battermay be used for nearly all kinds of 
fritters with but slight variations: 

Plain Fritter Batter — One cup of flour, half a teaspoon of 
baking powder, quarter teaspoon of salt, two eggs, and one 
cup of milk. The dry ingredients should be sifted carefully 
together and the eggs beaten before they are added to the 
milk, then the whole beaten until it is very smooth. 

Vegetable Fritters 

Make the batter in the usual way. Take a small bottle 
of macedoine of vegetables and drain them; add to them a 
half teaspoon of salt, a saltspoon of pepper, a teaspoon of 
sugar, a grated onion, teaspoon of finely chopped parsley, 
and toss them lightly in half a cup of whipped cream and stir 
all into the batter. Fry the fritters and serve them in a 



Entrees 169 

napkin garnished with lemon quarters and parsley. Serve 
with them fennel sauce, which is made of a half pint of 
melted butter and a tablespoon of carefully washed and 
chopped fresh fennel seed. Let the butter come to the 
boiling point, add the fennel, simmer for two minutes, and 
serve hot. 

For Clam and Oyster Fritters 

Steam open twenty-five clams, take from the shells, 
and chop fine. Take one cup of the clam juice and let it 
get cold. Make the fritter batter as above, using the cup 
of clam juice and a half cup of milk; after it is beaten smooth 
add the chopped clams, pepper, and salt, and fry the fritters 
in the usual way. 

Usually uncooked clams are put into the fritter batter, 
but this is a mistake, they should be steamed first, for 
otherwise they never get thoroughly cooked through and 
the fritter is not inviting. Possibly this is the reason it 
is not more popular. For oyster fritters take twenty-five 
oysters, strain them from their juice, let it come to boiling 
point, drop in the oysters, and let them boil up once, 
then remove and drain them. When cold chop them. 
Carefully strain a cup of the liquor they were boiled in and 
proceed in the same way as was done with the clam fritters. 
Serve them in a napkin and in a small tureen. Serve a little 
carefully melted butter with the juice of half a lemon, a 
dash of red pepper, and a teaspoon of finely chopped tarragon 
leaves added. 

Tuna Fish Fritters 

Take one can of tuna fish, flake it, and whip it light 
with the white of one stiffly beaten egg. Add to it a quarter 
saltspoon of pepper, a half saltspoon of salt, a half saltspoon 
of curry powder, and a teaspoon of Worcestershire sauce 
and beat it lightly through the batter, which is ready mixed, 
using two eggs as usual in it. Fry in the usual way and 
serve in a napkin with the following cucumber sauce: 



lyo Entrees 

Peel, quarter, and remove the seeds from three cucumbers, 
cut them in small pieces, put them in a cloth, and squeeze 
the water out of them. Then saut^ them in two ounces 
of butter until they begin to brown, add a small cup of good 
brown sauce which has been highly seasoned, and boil 
together for eight minutes. Turn into a tureen and serve 
with the fritters. 

Sweetbread Fritters 

Parboil, blanch, and chop fine one pair of sweetbreads; 
add to them a small red pepper and half a cup of mush- 
rooms, also chopped fine, one small grated onion, and a 
tablespoon of chutney sjoTip; stir into the batter and fry. 
Serve with a horseradish sauce made as follows: Take 
four tablespoons of grated horseradish, one teaspoon of 
sugar, one of salt, and two of mixed English mustard, and 
half a teaspoon of pepper. Add enough tarragon vinegar 
to make the mixture the consistency of thick cream. When 
thoroughly mixed add four tablespoons of sweet cream, set 
into a double boiler and let it get hot, but do not allow it to 
boil. Serve at once with the fritters. 

Ginger Fritters 

Take one half cup of preserved ginger, chop it very fine, 
and add to it one cup of preserved mirabelles, add to the 
batter, and after frying serve a flavored syrup or a boiled 
pudding sauce with the fritters. For all fruit fritters a 
convenient sauce is made of a cup of sugar and a half cup of 
water. Melt and boil together for five minutes and flavor 
with a teaspoon of vanilla, pistachio, rose, almond, orange 
flower, or oil of clove flavoring. These may be varied with 
the different fruits used. 

Grapefruit Fritters 

Prepare the grapefruit the same as for salad, draining 
slightly if it is too juicy. Add to it six macaroons that have 



Entrees 171 

been powdered, dust with sugar, and add a teaspoon of 
vanilla. Mix well with the plain batter and fry delicately. 
Serve in a napkin with a syrup sauce flavored with pistachio 
or with the maple and walnut sauce so often used on ice 
cream. 

Spanish Fritters 

Make the batter in the usual way. Then open a small 
bottle of the ready mixed Spanish omelet filling. This is 
very highly seasoned, and the vegetables and peppers 
are all cut in the usual way. Add to this a half cup of 
grated pineapple, if at hand, or a half cup of apple sauce. 
Add to the batter and fry. Serve with a Russian mayon- 
naise made in this way. Add enough ketchup to the may- 
onnaise to color it pink, chop together two olives, a strip of 
red pepper, a few tarragon leaves, and one small gherkin 
pickle. Add this to the sauce with the juice of an onion. 
These fritters are even more hearty if served with a rich, 
smooth tomato sauce. 

Calves' Liver Fritters 

Take one pound of calves' liver and boil it until tender. 
Then remove and chop very fine. Add to it pepper, salt, 
two tablespoons of apple juice, the juice of an onion, and 
lighten it with the beaten whites of two eggs. Add the 
mixture to the batter and fry. Serve with the fritters one 
small tumbler of melted currant jelly. 

Beef Fritters 

Chop enough cold roast beef after freeing it from fat and 
gristle to fill a cup, add to it one grated onion, a teaspoon of 
chopped tarragon leaves, a teaspoon of mustard sauce, a tea- 
spoon of Worcestershire sauce, a quarter saltspoon of pepper, 
a saltspoon of salt, and whip it light with the white of one 
egg beaten stiff. Add it to the batter as quickly as it is 
light, mix thoroughly, and fry at once. 



172 Entrees 

Lobster Fritters 

Take enough cold boiled lobster to fill a cup, and cut it 
very fine. Add to it a half saltspoon of pepper, a saltspoon of 
salt, a teaspoon of melted butter, two teaspoons of chutney 
syrup, and add it to the batter. Fry in the usual way and 
serve a tartare sauce with the fritters or heavy mayonnaise 
to which a little whipped cream is added just before serving. 
Crab flakes or cold boiled shrimp may be used in the same 
way. 



ART OF CARVING 

For the man of family, where the real home table is still 
maintained and the joint or fowl is carved at table, it is an 
economic necessity that he understand every branch of the 
art. Where the carving is done in the kitchen, as in many 
modem households, the waste and shrinkage is infinitely 
greater than by the old-fashioned table service, and with the 
advanced price of living this is most disastrous to a not too 
plethoric pocketbook. 

The first requisite of the carver is a knowledge of the 
anatomy of the fowl or joint that he is about to dissect. 
The second is sharp and appropriate knives for the purpose 
and a platter in every way adequate in size for the contents. 
He may then proceed with fairly high hopes of success. 

The art in carving a turkey is to get as many fine slices 
from the breast as possible and to sever each joint at the 
proper point deftly and in the least time possible, so that the 
guests do not grow impatient and the other viands grow 
cold. 

Every good carver knows that the presence of the wish- 
bone is an obstacle in the cutting of perfect slices from the 
breast. By taking it out before the bird is cooked the 
carver can cut down through both light and dark meat in 
the same slice. To remove the bone slip a knife under each 
prong and cut upward to the point. Turn the bone back- 
ward and then cut out the point of the bone. It will be 
found that in this way scarcely a shred of meat is lost. If 
pulled downward the flesh will be torn. 

If the turkey has been properly trussed and stuffed and 
roasted on its breast instead of its back, so that all the 

173 



174 Art of Carving 

juices run into the white meat, it should present a plump 
and compact appearance when placed before the carver 
with its legs at his right hand. The carver places the 
fork fir ml y and securely across the top of the breastbone, 
so as to have complete control of the bird, and it should not 
be removed during the operation. He then severs the leg 
at the first joint; then deftly cuts out the second joint; then 
removes the wing at the shoulder joint and that leaves 
the entire side ready for slicing. After as many slices as 
possible have been removed from- the breast, narrow slices 
from each side of the space left after the removal of the 
second joint will give enough dark meat to serve a little to 
each, with a spoonful of stuffing which may be released by 
slitting the apron which may have been sewed careftdly 
to retain the mixture from falling untidily into the pan while 
roasting. 

If the sinews have been properly removed from the legs 
by the butcher or the home cook, the legs are proper to 
serve. This is done by making an incision at the knee 
joint and with a round skewer draw out the two large ten- 
dons, then open the joints back' and ten more tendons are 
disclosed. Draw them carefully if not all as many as can 
be gotten and then the leg when cooked will be as desirable 
as any other part of the bird. 

The wing should be severed at the joint before serving, 
as it is a hard joint to manage on the plate. The meat may 
be cut from the second joint before serving or served as a 
joint, as the carver thinks best. Of course, removing the 
neck and turning in the skin with a spoonful of stuffing in 
French fashion makes the best looking bird when served and 
gives greater slicing facility. 

If both sides of the turkey are to be used at the meal the 
carver need not remove the fork, but simply turn the bird 
toward him and grasp the fork with the back of the hand 
uppermost. The larger roasted chickens and ducks are 
carved in practically the same manner, though the English 
method of carving the duck is to take as many slices from 



Art of Carving 175 

the breast as possible, carving upward from the wing joint 
before removing the wing. A tough fowl and an old goose 
are sad triers to a carver's patience and skill as well as to 
his temper, but, if the usual rules are followed, these obstacles _ 
may be overcome with practice and perseverance. 

Lamb Carving 

After poultry, perhaps lamb carving in its various phases 
is the next consideration in the list of carvers' difficulties. 
The leg is perhaps more often met with as a popular family 
joint than the saddle, loin, or shoulder; the forequarter is a 
bit more complicated and requires a little more thought and 
manipulation on the part of the carver. The leg, carefully 
roasted, should be placed upon the dish with the leg bone 
at the carver's left hand. Place the carving fork a little to 
the left of the center, over the bone, to hold the meat firmly; 
then carve down the center, first to the right then to the 
left, loosening the meat from the bone by a sideways motion 
of the knife. Sometimes the joint is served with the under 
side uppermost, so that the fine grained piece, known as the 
Pope's eye, may be easily found, but it is not a general way of 
serving. The forequarter is a little more difficult to man- 
age, for it is rather an art to separate the shoulder from the 
breast neatly so that the ribs may be readily reached. 

In pork carving, perhaps the greatest trial of the carver's 
skill is in carving the suckling pig, which is not as apt to be 
met with as the hams, both cured and fresh are. A few 
very simple directions may be sufficient. 

In carving the wee roast pig first cut off the head. Then 
the ham and next the shoulder facing the carver. Then 
remove the slice between the two portions removed which 
is part of the belly and this will enable the carver to reach 
the stuffing. The shoulder and ham may then be sliced 
as well as slices taken from the back. See in serving that 
each plate is supplied with a piece of lean and a piece of fat 
meat and a spoonful of dressing. 



176 A.rt of Carving 

Veal Joints 

Next are the popular veal joints, which, perhaps, are the 
least complicated of all. The shoulder is usually boned, 
then stuffed, so to slice it is no trick at all. The loin, if 
the butcher knows his business, has been divided so that 
the joints of the bones are easily found, and with each por- 
tion serve a bit of the kidney and kidney fat that lies under- 
neath this cut. The carving of the breast of veal is not 
dissimilar from that of the forequarter of lamb, the first 
thing being to remove the shoulder to reveal the ribs. The 
calf's head is rarely served on American tables whole, but is 
usually in soup or mode dishes. 

In beef roasts and joints the complications are not 
serious for the inexperienced carver. He must develop his 
quick intuition and learn to dodge skewers. If they are 
the old wooden variety they are hard to pull out, but the 
silver or steel ones are easily removed with the fork or the 
thumb and first finger of the right hand. A rolled roast is 
the rib roast with the ribs removed and the meat rolled, 
tied, and skewered in place. The fat is scored so as to let 
the meat roll properly, and it is simply carved by slicing 
across the top from right to left, holding it firmly with the 
carving fork well placed low on the left side. 

The standing rib roast is carved by passing the knife 
slowly across the heavy end to free the meat from the ribs 
from right to left, then It is ready to slice thinly. If the 
roast is a sirloin, it is a good idea for the carver to turn the 
roast over and remove the under cut so as to serve a slice 
with each slice of the upper cut. 



MEATS 

In purchasing meat for the table, one should be sure, if 
it is beef, that it is bright red in color and well streaked 
with fat. Veal should be pink; mutton, a dullish red 
and streaked with fat; lamb, dark pink; and pork, pale 
pink. The fat and suet of beef should be just off the white, 
rather a very faint cream. The fats of the other meats 
should be white, although that of mutton inclines to be 
yellowish. 

The coarser and therefore cheaper cuts of meat have the 
same nutritive value as the choicer and more expensive 
cuts. However, the flavor and tenderness of the latter 
doubtless have a greater effect in stimulating the flow of 
saliva and other digestive juices. 

Beef and mutton are at their best during the winter 
months but are used all year around. Veal and lamb are 
at their best in spring. Venison, when it is to be had, is 
good after the first frost in fall. The rabbit season lasts 
from November to February. Nearly all the game birds 
are at their best around the holidays. Turkeys and capons 
are good from Thanksgiving time to very early spring. 
Ducklings are the finest from late August to November. 

BEEF 

Only the usual cuts of beef that the market affords will 
be spoken of herein as they are most familiar to the ordinary 
housekeeper and if an intimate knowledge of them is 
acquired it will mean an understanding of their best uses 
in reducing the cost of living. If one is in doubt as to just 
12 177 



178 Meats 

what pieces of meat are the best and is unfamiliar with their 
appearance, an hour spent in the shop of a good butcher 
who carries a large stock will be well spent, and they are 
usually very glad to answer intelligent questions. 

In steaks the flat or double-boned sirloin, hip bone sirloin, 
porterhouse, delmonico, top round, flank, chuck, and pin 
bone are the best known. The first four are for broiling, 
the top round and flank though often broiled are better 
stuffed, rolled, and roasted. The chuck and pin bone are 
good in stews or meat pies. Of all the steaks the porter- 
house is the best for planking. 

For roasting there are three prime rib roasts, while the 
chuck roast is the largest and most economical. The tender- 
loin is usually larded and served as a filet of beef. The 
various pieces used for coming are the rump, brisket, 
navel, and plate. 

The usual methods of cooking beef are to roast, boil, 
broil, fry, braise, and pot roast it. The meat loses in weight 
in all processes but the most so in boiling. Grilling is 
cooking before the fire on a spit or in an open oven, the 
method being more popular in England than in America, 
though large hotels and restaurants are cooking in this 
way constantly; but few private homes being equipped 
with facilities for so doing. 

Larding 

In what is so-called high-class cookery there is nothing 
more important than to know how to lard a fowl or a roast 
properly, as oftentimes upon the success of the operation 
depends the ultimate tenderness of the meat. 

The larding needles come in sets with all sizes needed for 
all purposes, and require only to be thoroughly cleansed 
after using to be always in readiness. 

The regular larding pork is very deep and has a firm rind. 
Very sharp knives are required to prepare it without 
mangling it. It should be cut in strips an eighth of an inch 



Meats 179 

square, and from two to ten inches long, according to the 
purpose for which it is to be used. 

Lay the piece of meat to be larded on a napkin on the 
table where it may be held securely in place with the left 
hand, while the right hand uses the needle. Force the 
pork strips into the end of the needle and draw them 
through the meat one inch apart. If one wishes to have a 
very fancy roast strips of macaroni may be drawn through 
the meat and strips of carrot of the same size ; then when the 
meat is done the slices will have the tiny white rings and 
red cubes all through them. In larding birds use the short 
needles and smaller pieces of pork, being sure to lard each 
side of the backbone. Tiny birds too small to lard should 
be folded in two slices of the pork and tied with kitchen tape. 

A folding wooden stool to use when basting meat in the 
oven is quite a comfort in the kitchen. 

Roast Beef 

Place the piece of beef to be roasted on a low rack, putting 
a quarter of a cup of water in the dripping pan below. Put 
in a hot oven and after cooking fifteen minutes slightly 
reduce the heat. Allow fifteen minutes to each pound. 
Baste often and add salt and pepper just before the meat is 
done. If roasted in a gauze-door range the cooking will be 
perfectly done and without danger of burning. But a 
gas or electric oven will have to be closely watched. 

Boiled Beef 

For boiling use the brisket, put it over the fire in boiling 
water, allowing it fifteen minutes to the pound in cooking. 
Let cook evenly and a half hour before it is done add the 
seasoning. The beef is nice served with horseradish sauce, 
or cold sliced with any sauce liked. 

Pot Roast 

A most excellent pot roast larded with macaroni is pre- 
pared in the following way : — After larding, lay on a white 



i8o Meats 

kitchen plate with a small piece of suet in the bottom of it. 
Cover with a thinly sliced onion, a bunch of soup greens 
washed and cut fine, a cup of vinegar and two of cold water, 
a bay leaf, a clove, six raisins, three thin slices of lemon, a 
teaspoon of salt, a saltspoon of pepper, and a tablespoon of 
sugar. Simmer and slowly boil for four hours or until the 
meat is tender, then remove the meat, free it from all vege- 
tables, strain the gravy, thicken it as much as it needs to 
be, add six fresh raisins, and serve hot in a tureen. Garnish 
the meat with fresh watercress and serve mashed potatoes 
so that the gravy may be fully enjoyed. 

Sour Roast 

Take four pounds of top or bottom round beef, run 
through with a larding needle a dozen stems of macaroni, 
lay on the grating in pot on a slice of larding pork. Slice 
one large onion thin, one carrot, one potato, and add, with 
a bunch of parsley, two stalks of finely cut celery, six raisins, 
three cloves, one bay leaf, and a half a bud of garlic. Just 
cover with cold water and a cup of vinegar, cover closely 
and boil slowly three or four hours; then remove the meat, 
strain the gravy, then thicken it to the consistency of honey, 
add three or four fresh cloves and a dozen seeded raisins, 
pepper, salt, and a dash of sugar. Serve in a tureen Tvith 
the meat. 

Corned Beef 

Select a piece which has not been in corn more than 
four or five days, wash it carefully, and put it on to boil 
in cold clear water. When it has boiled half an hour 
throw off the water and have a teakettle of hot water 
ready to turn right over it. Then let it boil three or four 
hours, or until it is perfectly tender. To make sure that 
you get just the sort of beef that will cut up to the best 
advantage, it is a good idea for the housewife to select it 
herself, and then let the butcher com it for her. Three to 



Meats l8l 

five days is long enough for the meat to corn. When the 
meat is done allow it to partially cool in the water. 

Coarse Hash 

Cut enough of the beef into small pieces to make a cup 
and a half of meat; cut two boiled potatoes, three medium- 
sized cold boiled beets, and one medium-sized yellow turnip 
into small pieces and add them to the meat. Take two 
slices of fat pickled pork, try it out in a saucepan, remove the 
rinds, and turn into the hash. Add a saltspoon of pepper, a 
very little salt, a teaspoon of sugar, and half a cup of hot 
water. Cover the pan and let the hash cook slowly until 
all the moisture has been taken up, leaving the hash soft 
and well cooked. This makes the original New England 
"coarse hash." 

Fine Hash 

For the fine hash, made possibly from the last of the 
meat, take enough cold boiled potatoes chopped to make 
two cups, and one cup of the chopped corned beef. Put a 
lump of butter into the frying pan and half a cup of water. 
Add the hash, seasoning it with salt, pepper, and a teaspoon 
of sugar, and cover tightly. Cook it until it is just as dry or 
moist as is liked. A good addition to this hash is a cup of 
apple sauce; or, if one likes it better, a cup of very finely 
chopped cold boiled beets. 

Beef Loaf 

For the loaf take three pounds of chopped raw beef, one 
quarter of a pound of minced salt pork, one cupful of cracker 
dust, two teaspoons of salt, one of pepper, the juice of one 
onion, a tablespoon of Worcestershire sauce, one tart apple 
chopped very fine with one stalk of celery, and two well 
beaten eggs. Mold together and work in two tablespoons of 
melted butter; when thoroughly mixed, pack a well buttered 



1 82 Meats 

mold, cover closely, and place in a roasting pan of boiling 
water. Cook in a steady oven for two hours, turn onto a 
hot platter, garnish with cress, and serve with a brown 
gravy. 

Rump of Beef k la Mode 

Take six pounds of beef from the rump; lard it well with 
salt pork. Season with salt, pepper, minced parsley, and a 
dash of nutmeg. Place in an earthen bowl with sliced 
carrots and onions and pour over it one half pint of brandy. 
Let it marinate in a cool place for one day, turning it 
over frequently. Then drain and wipe the surface dry, 
set it in a saucepan or P. & M. cooker with some fat and 
roast brown; then add a pint of good white wine, sufficient 
beef broth to cover the meat, two calf's feet that have been 
split and blanched, and a few bones. Season with a bunch of 
parsley tied with celery tops, a saltspoon each of pepper, 
salt, and thjmie, a clove of garlic, two onions, two carrots, 
and the brandy which was left in the bowl. Let boil five 
minutes, then cover tightly and set in the oven to simmer 
two hours. Take out the meat and drain it, and strain the 
gravy. When nearly cold cut into slices and arrange on an 
oval dish with the slices overlapping. Place around the 
edge braised carrots, glazed onions, and some French peas; 
then pour the strained gravy over all and put in ice-box 
to chill until the gravy sets in jelly. Garnish with cress 
and olive rings. 

Beef Olives 

Take two pounds of rump steak sliced rather thin and 
cut in six or seven pieces, brush over with egg, roll in a 
mixture of pepper, salt, savory herbs, minced onion, a little 
minced celery, a few fine bread crumbs, and butter and 
fasten with a small skewer. 

Lay olives in a stewpan where they fit close together, so 
as to keep their shape, covering each with a slice of bacon; 



Meats 1S3 

turn over them a pint of well seasoned stock, cover closely, 
stew very gently for two hours, remove, and place on the 
platter. Add a little thickening to the gravy, season it a 
little higher, boil, turn over the olives, and garnish with 
parsley. 

Filet Marine 

Cut out the filet from the roast of beef, dust with salt 
and pepper, squeeze the juice from one onion over it, add a 
tablespoon of tarragon vinegar and two of best sweet 
oil, and put it in the oven. Baste it carefully and serve 
with fried potatoes. 

Casserole Roast 

Two pounds round steak, cut into small pieces, one can of 
peas, one half can of tomatoes, one carrot sliced, one onion 
sliced, four cloves, one quarter cup of well soaked tapioca, 
one quarter cup of soft bread crumbs, salt and pepper to 
taste. 

[ Cover with water and cook in casserole in the oven 
three hours, covered closely. 

Kidney Stew 

Skin and parboil two kidneys, changing the water fre- 
quently. When tender remove the kidneys and cut them 
into quarters and lay them in a glass of white wine (or Tar- 
ragon vinegar) with one clove and three raisins. Prepare a 
brown sauce from one pound of beef cut fine, a soup bunch, 
and water enough to cover. Simmer gently one hour ; strain, 
thicken with butter and flour areamed, season, and add the 
kidneys and the wine. Boil up and serve poured over dry 
toast sippets for a breakfast dish. 

"Bubble and Squeak" 

Fry in butter a few thin slices of cold boiled beef, taking 
care not to dry them up. Lay them on a hot platter and 



i84 Meats 

cover them with the following sauce: Have boiled very 
tender and chopped one Savoy cabbage and one quart of 
Brussels sprouts; drain them after they are chopped. Slice 
an onion very thin and put in a frying pan with butter, 
sprinkle with pepper and salt, and when it begins to brown 
put in the chopped greens. Heat all very hot, dust with 
pepper, salt, and a teaspoon of powdered sugar, and when 
the onion is thoroughly done turn all over the beef and 
serve. 

Brown Stew 

Take two pounds of chuck meat and cut it in small pieces, 
being careftil to cut it across the grain so it will be tender 
and not stringy. Flour each piece and have ready in a 
frying pan a little hot fat. Put in the meat and brown the 
pieces quickly on both sides, then remove them and put 
them into the stewpan. Mix two tablespoons of flour with a 
cup and a half of water and ttu-n it into the fat the meat 
was browned in and let it slightly thicken, then pour it over 
the meat with a cup of tomato juice, a saltspoon each of 
pepper and salt, a sliced onion, and a diced carrot. Bring 
to boiling point, then simmer, keeping the gravy just deep 
enough to cover the meat. Fifteen minutes before the 
stew is to be served drop in the dumplings, season, and 
• cover tightly. Dumplings for the stew are quick ones. 

To mix the dumpling batter sift two cups of flour with 
two level teaspoons of baking powder, one teaspoon of salt, 
and a cup of sweet milk. Mix thoroughly and drop by 
tablespoons into the boiling liquid, dipping the tablespoon 
into the hot liquid often, as the heat makes the batter drop 
from the spoon more quickly. The dimiplings never 
sink, but float upon the surface. The hot liquid cooks the 
lower half while the upper half is practically steam cooked. 
This is why the cover should not be raised until five minutes 
have passed. It is then safe to raise the cover and take 
out one dumpling to test, without danger of making the 
others heavy. 



Meats 185 

To test the dumpling tear it apart with two forks. If it 
has a light, spongy texture with no dough spot in the center, 
it is done and the rest should be removed at once. 

Smoked Tongue 

Put a smoked tongue to soak in cold water over night; 
change the water once. In the morning put it on in cold 
water and throw in a bunch of sweet herbs. Boil evenly 
four to four and a half hours, or until tender, then drain 
and skin and trim it for table use. If it is to be served 
hot it may be sliced and the slices placed on panned spinach. 

Baked Heart 

Put a beef heart to soak in warmi Vater for two hours. 
Wipe it dry and after cutting open the lobes stuff the heart 
with savory forcemeat, tie the heart with kitchen tape, and 
bake in covered roaster two hours, basting often. Serve 
the dish gravy, slightly thickened, and currant jelly with 
the heart. 

Hamburg Steak 

Take a pound and a half of round steak and run it twice 
through the meat chopper and add to it two grated onions, 
a half teaspoon of salt and a saltspoon of pepper, and a 
tablespoon of finely chopped suet. Form into cakes or 
pats and broil over a good fire. Serve on a hot dish with a 
little lump of butter on top of each. 

Beef Croquettes 

Chop very fine the left-over ends of steak or roast beef, 
add to it a grated onion, a tablespoon of finely chopped 
celery, a half cup of bread crumbs, one beaten egg, a half 
teaspoon of salt and a saltspoon of pepper, two tablespoons 
of ketchup, one of Worcestershire sauce, and just enough 
stock to enable the mixture to be molded into croquettes. 



1 86 Meats 

Roll in egg and crumbs and fry in hot fat. Drain and 
serve with broiled potatoes and garnish with parsley 

Tripe 

Fine grain or honeycomb tripe may be washed, dried, 
and broiled on a buttered gridiron, fried in butter, stewed in 
cream or in a brown mushroom sauce, or cooked in casserole. 
If liked it is easily digested and nourishing. To cook it in a 
casserole cut it in pieces, add to it a cup of potato balls 
cut with the cutter, a sliced onion, a diced carrot, and a 
half cup of peas. Put in dish with a cup of brown sauce, 
half gill of butter, a quarter saltspoon of pepper, and a 
saltspoon of salt. Serve boiled rice with the tripe. 

Liver 

Beef liver is occasionally used by being boiled, then 
chopped fine and made into croquettes highly seasoned. 
But calf's liver is preferred. 

Swiss Steak 

Take a piece of top round steak, dust it with pepper, salt, 
and paprika, dredge it on both sides with flour, then put it 
into a hot frying pan with enough hot fat in it to cover the 
bottom. Cover the pan and let the steak cook. When 
done through, pour over it a cup of thin tomato sauce, add 
the juice of an onion and a half bud of garlic. Cover and 
simmer gently for half an hour. Serve with the gravy 
turned over it, on a hot platter, with a border of mashed 
potato around the edge. 

Beefsteak Pie 

Cut three pounds of rump steak into small pieces two 
inches square. Arrange in layers with seasoning, salt, 
pepper, thin slices of carrot, butter, and the juice of an 



Meats 187 

onion. Half fill the pie with water and cross two thin 
slices of bacon on top. Leave a hole in the crust and bake 
one and a half hotirs. 

Cooking and Serving of Steak 

Almost everyone likes and eats steak if it is properly- 
cooked and invitingly served. As to the choicest cuts, that 
depends on the amount one uses, the price per pound one 
feels ready to pay; and the size and location of the butcher 
shop from which it is purchased. The small shops do not 
carry all that the big markets do nor can they sell at their 
prices. 

There are two positive points to observe in the production 
of a successful steak dish; first, the steak must be the best 
of its kind, and second, the bed of coals must be perfect 
for its broiling. If gas has to be used, then the flames must 
be regulated carefully and the broiler hot before the steak 
goes in, the range door must be left open during the broiling, 
and the steak must not be near enough to the flame to catch 
fire. When the steak is to be served plain, take it from 
the broiler, place it on a hot platter, add pepper, salt, and a 
generous amoimt of good butter. If broiled by gas under 
or over the flame, then turn the juice caught in the drip 
cup or pan over the meat also, and garnish with parsley. 

The so-called "three minute" steaks are cut from the 
tenderloin about a half inch thick and are broiled three 
minutes over a perfect fire, then are buttered and seasoned, 
garnished with fresh cress, and sent to table on a very hot 
covered platter. 

For the favorite "planked steak" the hardwood plank 
must be heated as hot as possible before the steak is put 
onto it. When it is done, the mac^doine vegetables may be 
arranged around it, the mashed potato put through a rose 
tube in the pastry bag and laid on the edge, then the plank 
should be placed in a hot oven to .brown the potato. Serve 
on the plank at once. No extra garnish is required for 
this dish. 



i88 Meats 

There are several ways of cooking a steak in onions; this 
perhaps is one of the best. Pare and slice thin the desired 
amount of onions. Melt a generous lump of butter in the 
frying pan and when hot put in the onions, cover, and when 
they begin to cook shake them often so they do not burn. 
Add pepper, salt, and a teaspoon of sugar ; when they begin 
to brown lay your steak on top, cover, and shake gently 
but continually, turn the steak in five minutes, butter and 
sprinkle with a little pepper and salt, then cover again and 
cook another five minutes or less according to the thickness 
of the steak. Turn right over onto a hot platter with the 
onions on top and garnish with toast sippets and parsley. 
"Hamburg" steak is cooked in the same way, only it does 
not require turning, as it cooks through quicker on account 
of having been chopped. 

"Steak with oysters" is a favorite dish in many localities 
and is good if carefully prepared. Broil the steak in the 
usual way, but do not season it. Place it on a hot platter 
that will stand the oven. Have ready one quart of oysters 
carefully wiped and all pieces of shell removed, cover the 
steak with the oysters, dot the top with plenty of little 
lumps of butter, salt and pepper, and put it into a hot oven, 
letting it stay until the edges of the oysters curl. Then 
serve at once, garnishing with toast sippets and parsley. 

Steak k la Creole 

Select a nice thick porterhouse steak to broil; fry in butter 
enough thinly sliced Spanish onions to spread a layer over 
the steak after it has been broiled. Take a cup and a half 
of strained tomato juice, add one tablespoon of Worcester- 
shire sauce, a tablespoon of chutney syrup, pepper, salt, 
and two tablespoons of finely minced cold boiled ham and a 
tablespoon of butter. Put into a saucepan and when it 
has cooked two or three minutes thicken it with cornstarch 
to the consistency of heavy cream. Put the broiled steak 
onto a hot platter, spread the onions over the top, then 



Meats 189 

pour over it the sauce; garnish with sprays of watercress 
and stuffed baked red peppers. 

Steak en Casserole 

Cut two pounds of tender round steak into two-inch- 
square pieces. Butter a casserole dish and lay in the 
center a layer of the steak dusted with flour, then a layer of 
thickly sliced potato dusted with pepper and salt, then the 
meat, and so on until the meat is all in; then turn over it a 
gill of melted butter and a teaspoon of chopped parsley. 
At the side of the meat place a can of French peas that have 
been drained, on the other side some little silver-skinned 
onions; add a cup and a half of rich red stock and after 
covering the dish place it in the oven to cook. The length 
of time it takes to cook must be judged by the oven, but 
usually from one hour to one and a half is sufficient. 

Steak with Mushrooms 

For this dish the steak is broiled in the usual way and 
put on a hot platter ready for the sauce. To make the 
sauce, saut^, after draining, one can of button mushrooms; 
have ready two cups of English brown sauce well seasoned, 
add the mushrooms to it, and when the steak is ready turn 
, the sauce over it. If fresh mushrooms are to be had, fry 
them in butter, add pepper, salt, and the juice of an onion 
to them, and turn them over the steak. 

Hungarian Goulash 

Select a small shoulder of beef and have it cut into inch 
squares, add to it one quarter of the amount of chopped 
onions, season with a level tablespoon of salt, a teaspoon of 
pepper, and a saltspoon of Hungarian paprika; mix well, 
cover the saucepan and set it in the oven. When done 
tender add three cups of raw, diced potatoes; continue 
cooking and when the potatoes are done the goulash is 



190 Meats 

ready to serve. No water is added as the juice of the 
meat makes sufficient sauce. This should serve ten people. 

VEAL 

The carcass of the calf usually comes to market with 
the skin on, the pluck left in, the head and feet removed. 
When ready to use it is skinned and divided into quarters. 
The leg is cut off just below the hip joint for roasting pur- 
poses. Cutlets are taken from the end of the leg or a thick 
piece may be taken instead for a filet. The knuckle left 
after the leg is cut up is used for white soup stock. The 
rump piece is known as the pin bone roast, though in many 
instances it is cut into chops, a matter the butcher decides 
with regard to his particular trade. The shoulder is excel- 
lent boned and roasted, the blades and small bones going 
into the stock pot. The neck rack is good for stewing meat. 
The calf's liver is the most delicate in market, especially 
if it is from a milk-fed calf > and contains the least amount 
of uric acid. The sweetbreads are another delicacy from 
the calf, and those considered the finest are the so-called 
round heart breads, the throat breads being longer, thinner, 
and having more fibrous waste. They are the thymus 
and thyroid glands; the pancreas or stomach breads are 
seldom used but are really the true sweetbreads. The law is 
strict regarding the selling of veal and only that from a calf 
around five weeks' old is permitted, that under three weeks 
being known as "bob" veal, and it is against the law to 
have it on sale. 

Roast Filet of Veal 

Select a nice filet of veal the size required, have the bone 
removed, raise the skin from the meat, and put under the 
flap a nice savory forcemeat. Skewer and bind the veal 
in a round form, dust lightly with a little pepper and salt, 
and dredge with a little flour. Place it in a roasting pan 
and cook. A six-pound filet will take about two hours to 



Meats 191 

cook. Baste often and dish the filet, turning over the top 
a half gill of melted butter. Garnish with fresh cress and 
lemon quarters, and place a little cold boiled sliced ham on 
either side of the platter. 

Veal Cutlets 

Veal cutlets may be delicately broiled and served dressed 
with butter, pepper, and salt ; or they may be fried and 
served with any sauce that is liked; or they may be spread 
thinly with a savory dressing, rolled, dusted with pepper 
and salt, placed in a roasting pan with a cup of rich stock, 
and roasted for three quarters of an hour in a medium 
oven, or longer if the meat does not seem done. The 
gravy may be thickened and seasoned to taste with a half 
cup of mushrooms, that have been saut6d in butter, added. 

Boiled Calf's Head 

Have the head split and thoroughly cleaned. Remove 
the brains and place them, with the head, in warm water to 
blanch for one hour. Remove the head and put it in a 
stewpan with sufficient cold water to cover it. When it 
begins to boil add a teaspoon of salt. Add to the water 
the juice of an onion, or a bud of garlic, six raisins, a bay 
leaf, a blade of mace, and a stalk of celery. Let cook until 
the head is perfectly tender. Boil the brains for thirty 
minutes, drain, and chop them fine; add to them a half 
gill of melted butter, a teaspoon of chopped parsley, a 
saltspoon of pepper, and a half teaspoon of salt. Take 
up the head, skin the tongue and place it in the center of 
the platter, turn over it the brain sauce. Remove the 
meat in large pieces from the head, lay the pieces around 
the platter, placing a piece of fried bacon on top of each. 

Calf's Liver 

Calf's liver may be sliced, washed, dried, and broiled on 
a well greased gridiron, then dressed with pepper, salt, and 



192 Meats 

butter; it may be fried with bacon, or it may be smothered 
in a brown sauce with fine herbs. Again, it may be 
boiled until tender, then chopped very fine, and be sea- 
soned with a tablespoon of melted butter, a saltspoon of 
pepper, and a half teaspoon of salt; served on slices of 
toast with a teaspoon of currant jelly on top of each 
portion. 

Sweetbreads 

In nearly all ways of cooking sweetbreads they are al- 
lowed to stand in warm water for a few minutes to draw out 
the blood and to improve their color; they are then plunged 
into slightly salted boiling water and allowed to boil evenly 
for fifteen minutes, then drained and set aside to cool. They 
may then be broiled after brushing over with butter; or 
they may be fried delicately and served garnished with 
toast sippets and parsley; or may be put into a Newburg 
sauce, or any of the other fancy sauces desired. They also 
combine well in a great many of the so-called made dishes, 
and are used in salads. 

Veal and Ham Pie 

Cut two pounds of veal cutlet into small pieces and put a 
layer in the bottom of the dish. Sprinkle over them a 
mixture of pepper, salt, a dash of nutmeg, two tablespoons 
of savory herbs, a strip of lemon peel finely chopped, and the 
yolks of two hard boiled eggs. Cut two pounds of boiled 
ham very fine and add in alternate layers until the dish is 
full, the top layer to be of ham. Add a half pint of water 
and the top crust and bake in a fair oven from one to one 
and a half hours. When it is removed from the oven pour 
in through a funnel at the top a pint of rich hot stock 
sufficiently rich to jell when it is cold. This pie may be 
made even more toothsome by the addition of mushrooms, 
sweetbreads, and oysters. 



Meats 193 

Hood of Tripe Roasted 

The hood can only be gotten from a butcher who makes 
a specialty of tripe. Stuff the hood with a good savory 
stuffing, fold the curtain of the hood over the top, and sew 
up the opening. Roast one hour in a roasting pan that is 
covered, basting with well seasoned white stock. Remove 
the cover, brown the roast, and season and thicken the dish 
gravy and pour over it. Garnish with fried sliced apple 
and toast sippets. 

Polish Chops 

It is seldom that we meet with recipes from Poland, but 
like all other nations the Poles have their favorite dishes 
and this is one of the unusual ones. Select as many loin 
veal chops as are needed to serve one to a portion. Fry 
them quickly in fat in a hot frying pan. When done 
remove and drain. Have ready two onions chopped fine 
with a tablespoon of parsley, and a quarter of a pound of 
calf's liver chopped with four slices of bacon; mix all to- 
gether; season, adding a little dusting of sweet herbs, and 
spread one side of the chops with the mixture. Dot each 
with little lumps of butter, put them in a buttered baking 
pan, and turn around them a cup of heavy stock. Let them 
cook in the oven until the dressing mixture is done, basting 
often. Remove to a hot platter and turn the gravy over 
them. 

Boiled Tongue 

Soak the tongue over night and boil for four hours. 
When slightly cool skin and trim and it is ready for use. 
To serve with the cold boiled tongue, which is thinly sliced 
or served whole in aspic and then carved at table, the 
Violette mustard which comes all prepared will be found 
delicious. 
13 



194 Meats 

Egyptian Meat Pie 

LineVdeep pie dish with good crust. Chop fairly fine a 
half pound of calf's liver and a half pound of fresh pork. 
Add a half can of mushrooms, cut in pieces, one grated 
onion, and a chopped pepper. Fill the pie and pour over 
all a half gill of melted butter, a 'tablespoon of chutney 
syrup, one tablespoon of tomato ketchup, and, over the top, 
a very light dredging of flour. Put on the top crust and 
bake, from thirty to forty minutes in a medium oven. 

Calf's Liver Larded and Roasted 

Take a fresh milk liver and lard it with fat bacon. Put 
it into a pickle of vinegar, sliced onion, thyme, parsley, 
bay leaf, half a bud of garlic, salt, and pepper. Let it 
stand for twenty-four hours, drain, and place in buttered 
roasting pan. Baste frequently with the strained pickle 
juice. When done place on platter and cover with sauce 
piquante, made as follows: Put into a saucepan two ounces 
of butter, a sliced carrot, and six sliced shalots. Add a 
bunch of savory herbs, half a bay leaf, pepper, salt, and 
a thin slice of lean ham. Let simmer until they form a 
brown glaze, then add four tablespoons of vinegar and 
half a pint of good stock, with a lump of sugar. Simmer 
gently for half an hour, skim off fat, strain, and when very 
hot serve with the liver. Garnish with sliced lemon and 
fried parsley. 

Bulgarian Chops 

Select good-sized veal chops, season them with pepper 
and salt, and fry them quickly (but not hard) on both sides. 
Remove from the pan, lay them in a buttered baking pan, 
and sprinkle over them this mixture: One onion, one 
pepper, two slices of bacon, and a half pound of boiled 
tongue, all chopped fine; turn over all a cup of stock and 
sprinkle with a little chopped parsley. Cook in the oven, 



Meats 195 

basting often with the dish gravy. Serve on a hot platter, 
with a border of boiled rice, and turn the gravy over the rice. 

Mushrooms and Sweetbreads 

Line a deep pie dish with a good puff paste. Parboil, 
trim, and dice one pair of sweetbreads, make a rich cream 
sauce, not too thick, put in the sweetbreads; then slice one 
cold boiled egg and four truffles, adding the juice of an 
onion and a tablespoon of mushroom ketchup. While 
this is cooling prepare a half pound of mushrooms, leaving 
the flaps whole and washing and slicing the stems thin. 
Turn the mixture into the pie crust, not using too much of 
the cream; dip the mushrooms in melted butter, pepper, and 
salt and pack them in, using quite a number, as they shrink. 
Add the rest of the sauce if there is room, put on the upper 
crust, and bake like any ordinary pie. Serve hot with any 
roast meat dish, cutting in strips and squares rather than in 
wedge-shaped pieces like a dessert pie. 

Cutlet en Casserole 

Take a medium cutlet, cut with a sharp knife into three- . 
inch squares, and place them in a casserole dish. Cut 
with a scoop small round potato, carrot, and parsnip balls, a 
cup and a half in all, and pare a cup of button onions; add 
these to the cutlet with one cup of red stock, pepper, salt, a 
dash of mignonette pepper, and a tablespoon of Worcester- 
shire sauce. Take one tablespoon of rice flour and mix it 
smooth with a little water and add to the gravy, putting in 
last a half gill of melted butter. Cook in a medium oven 
an hour to an hour and a half, or until the meat is done. 

JelUed Calf's Head 

Boil a calf's head, after having removed the brains for 
use in fritters and the tongue to boil; dice and serve the 
tongue in tomato dressing for a luncheon dish, and add 
a bunch of herbs, two onions, a carrot, parsley, a strip of 



196 Meats 

lemon peel, pepper, and salt to flavor the same ; the head 
boil until the meat pulls from the bones;, then take the 
meat and let the rest boil down a third; add a wine- 
glass of sherry and a teaspoon of gelatine dissolved in 
a little cold water; strain and add to the mold, where the 
meat has been cut in pieces, cold boiled egg sliced through 
it, and several olives cut from the stones in curls; fill the 
mold and stand away to cool and harden; serve garnished 
with white lettuce leaves and tartare sauce. 

Veal Croquettes 

Mince the veal that is to be used very fine. Mix half a 
cup of milk with one teaspoon of flour, a piece of butter 
the size of an egg; cook until it thickens, then add the meat 
to it and roll into balls. Dip them in a beaten egg with a 
little milk stirred in, roll them in browned bread crumbs, and 
fry in hot lard. Drain on blotting paper and serve gar- 
nished with parsley. 

MUTTON AND LAMB 

Mutton and lamb come to our city markets dressed much 
the same way as beef — the carcass is divided into sides by 
splitting down the backbone, after the "haslet" has been 
removed. The fore and hind quarters are then divided 
just behind the ribs. The cuts of mutton and lamb are just 
the same, the leg, the loin, the rack, consisting of the ribs 
behind the shoulder, the fore quarter or chuck which con- 
tains four ribs and the breast. The hind quarters of both 
mutton and lamb are used for roasting as are the fore 
quarters, especially those of so-called spring lamb. The 
leg cut just before the hip bone is used in lamb for roasting, 
and in mutton for boiling and is often stuffed for roasting 
after the bone has been removed. In selecting the lamb 
chops those designated as French chops are most delicate 
and costly. Loin chops are cheaper, are subject to less . 
waste, are tender, and of just as good flavor. Shoulder 



Meats 197 

chops are to be had occasionally when the butcher has not 
been able to sell the shoulder and meat under it for a roast 
but as he usually does they are not to be had often. These 
chops are known as round bone and blade chops, the former 
being usually the most tender. The breast and flank of 
mutton are used for stew, and the breast of lamb for stewing 
and braising. The necks of both mutton and lamb are 
used for stews and broths. When a saddle of mutton is 
required it must be taken from a carcass that has not been 
split down the back and usually it means a special order. 

Boiled Leg of Mutton 

Select a good, heavy leg of mutton, have the butcher cut 
and scrape back the meat about four inches from the shank 
end and skewer it in place; he is also to joint and take out the 
end bone — this leaves a more compact leg, better for carv- 
ing. Wash and wipe the joint and plunge it into boiling 
water enough to cover it, let it boil rapidly for five minutes, 
then draw it back and let it cook evenly from two to three 
hours according to the size of the joint. Skim the water and 
add after it has cooked two hours a teaspoon of salt, a salt- 
spoon of pepper, a half teaspoon of celery salt, and the juice 
of an onion. When done serve garnished with parsley, and 
have a good caper sauce in the sauce-boat. 

When the leg is stuffed and roasted, after the bone is 
taken out, the stuffing to use is a savory forcemeat stuffing 
made of a pint of bread crumbs, one grated onion, a salt- 
spoon of pepper, a tablespoon of chopped tarragon leaves, a 
level teaspoon of salt, a half cup of pecan nuts ground, a 
tablespoon of minced celery, and a heaping tablespoon of 
melted butter; if the dressing seems a little dry a half gill of 
cream may be added. 

Mutton Pie 

Take the remains of a cold leg of mutton and cut the 
meat into thin slices or small pieces. Line a pie dish with 



198 Meats 

the crust, place a layer of the meat in the bottom, a layer 
of potatoes cut rather thick or in balls on top of the meat, 
little lumps of butter, a saltspoon of pepper and a half 
teaspoon of salt, a teaspoon of onion juice, a teaspoon of 
powdered herbs, and then put on another layer of the meat. 
Keep on in this way until the dish is full; then pour in a 
small cup of cream in which a teaspoon of browned flour 
has been stirred until smooth and free from lumps; then put 
on the upper crust. Bake about an hour. This pie is 
good hot or cold. 

Dormers 

Chop half a pound of cold mutton, two ounces of fresh 
beef suet, and three ounces of cold boiled rice together 
finely; add a high seasoning of pepper and salt and roll into 
little sausages. A little bunch of savory herbs adds greatly 
to the flavor. Dip them in egg, roll them in fine crumbs, 
and fry a delicate brown in hot fat. Serve with an English 
brown sauce poured over them. These make a good lunch- 
eon dish or entr6e. They may be garnished with toasted 
mushroom flaps in season, or served with stuffed baked 
peppers. 

Italian Cutlets 

Take three povmds of the neck of mutton, cut the meat 
into nicely shaped cutlets, flatten them and cut off some of 
the fat, dip them in melted butter, then in the beaten yolk 
of an egg. Mix well together four tablespoons of bread 
crumbs, one tablespoon of savory herbs, one tablespoon 
of minced parsley, one teaspoon of minced shalot, one salt- 
spoon of finely chopped lemon peel, salt, and pepper, and 
roll the cutlets in' the ingredients. Fry them a delicate 
brown in hot fat. Remove from the pan, then dredge into 
the grease they have been fried in a little flotir, and when it 
begins to brown pour in a cupful of hot stock; add a table- 
spoon of chutney, two teaspoons of tarragon vinegar, a 



Meats 199 

wineglass of port; then allow it to boil up, stirring it 
smooth. If the gravy should not be thick enough add a 
little bit more flour ; then pour around the cutlets. Garnish 
with fried red peppers and cress. 

Irish Stew 

Have three pounds of the loin of mutton cut into pieces of 
stewing size, put them in a saucepan with four thinly sliced 
onions, two diced carrots, and a quart of water. Cook 
gently one hoiur, then add salt and pepper to taste, eight 
good-sized potatoes cut in thick slices, and cook gently an- 
other hour. Then make quick dumplings, drop in on the 
top, and cook for fifteen minutes more tightly covered. Lift 
the stew and if the gravy is too thin thicken it slightly and 
pour over the stew. 

Mutton Pie 

Take two pounds of loin of mutton, cut it into small 
pieces, cut two kidneys in small pieces, grate one large 
onion, and chop fine a teaspoon of parsley. Place all in a 
buttered pudding dish and add two large cups of brown 
sauce, well seasoned. Cover the top with a good pie crust 
and bake for an hour and a half in a steady oven. 

English Mutton Chops 

The English chop is cut from two to two and a half inches 
thick and it takes from fifteen to eighteen minutes to broil. 
The ordinary chop is from half to three quarters of an inch 
thick and can be broiled in ten or twelve minutes. 

Trotters 

The trotters come to market all prepared in bundles. 
Wash them and place them in a saucepan with boiling water. 
Cook gently for two hours, or until the bones can be pulled 
loose. Remove from the fire and when slightly cool remove 



200 Meats 

the bones. Escallop the meat in a baking dish, using layers 
of bread crumbs dusted with pepper and salt, a little chopped 
parsley, two grated onions, and one cup of tomato juice. 
Dot the top with little lumps of butter, and bake three 
quarters of an hour to an hour, according to the heat of the 
oven. 

The trotters may also have the meat removed from the 
bones and, after being well seasoned, have the water they 
were cooked in boiled down to one half with a teaspoon of 
gelatine powder added, and be molded and jelled. When 
ready to serve lay a slice on a lettuce leaf with a tablespoon 
of asparagus tips on top and the whole heaped with mayon- 
naise. This makes a very nice warm day luncheon dish. 

Lamb 

In roasting a leg of spring lamb, weighing five pounds, it 
will take one hour and a half in a steady oven, and it will 
make a sufficient meal for five persons. Real spring lamb 
first comes to market at Easter time. 

Stuffed Shoulder of Lamb 

Have the blade bone removed from as large a shoulder of 
lamb as the market affords and stuff the meat with a savory 
stufifing, sewing up the slit with a coarse thread. Lay in a 
stewpan four slices of bacon, then lay in the lamb, and add 
two grated onions, a half stalk of chopped celery, a small 
bunch of savory herbs, and one quart of white stock. Stew 
evenly and gently for two hours. Then lift the meat, lay 
it on a hot platter, and reduce, by boiling, the gravy to one 
half the quantity; thicken it slightly with browned flour 
and turn over the meat. Serve mashed potato, peas, or 
stewed cucumbers with the lamb. 

Lamb Sweetbreads 

Soak a pair of sweetbreads in lukewarm water, then place 
them in a saucepan with sufficient boiling water to cover 



Meats 201 

them and simmer for ten minutes. Take them out and 
place them in cold water; next lard them and place in a 
stewpan, adding a sprinkling of pepper and salt, a small 
bunch of green onions, sliced fine, a blade of mace, a half 
pint of white stock, and a thickening of a little butter and 
flour rubbed to a cream; stew all gently for twenty minutes. 
Beat two eggs with a half pint of cream to which add a little 
minced parsley and a slight grating of nutmeg. Add this 
to the other ingredients, but do not allow the mixture to 
boil after adding for it will curdle. Have some asparagur 
tips, that have been boiled in fair water, ready drained and 
lay them around the dish as an edible garnish. 

Lamb Fries 

Take one pound of lamb fries and boil in three pints of 
water for twenty minutes, drain and dry them on a cloth, 
dip lightly in egg and roll in very fine bread crumbs to 
which have been added a saltspoon of pepper, a half tea- 
spoon of salt, and a teaspoon of chopped tarragon leaves. 
Fry in hot fat a delicate brown. Serve in a napkin and 
garnish with fresh, crisp watercress. 

Crown, or Rack Roast 

This roast is composed of the rack of mutton. The upper 
portions of the bones are frenched; the roast is then folded 
inside out and skewered or tied in place. Cover the tops of 
the bones with a little oiled paper so they do not burn. 
Place the roast in a baking-pan, turning into the pan a small 
cup of water in which a half teaspoon of salt and a saltspoon 
of pepper have been mixed. Roast in a quick oven for 
about three quarters of an hour, basting often. Have ready 
a dish of light creamy mashed potatoes, and just before the 
.roast is done draw it from the oven, remove the papers 
from the bones, fill the pot with the mashed potato, and put 
it back in the oven just long enough to brown the potato on 
top. Remove from the oven, put little white quilled paper 



202 Meats 

caps on top of each bone, and garnish the roast with little 
heaps of green peas alternated with fried slices of tomato. 

PORK 

Setting aside the fact of his unattractive habits there is no 
domestic animal so useful or profitable to man as the much 
maligned pig, or any that yields a more luxurious or varied 
repast. Those raised for market have come in recent years 
under such strict board of health laws that they do not 
fall heir to the many diseases that formerly made them 
dangerous eating. Where pork is objected to there 
are many other fats to take its place^ such as nuts, olive 
oil, butter, and cream, but none can offer to the epicure 
the delightfully toothsome flavor that the pork possesses. 
The ham is trimmed to the rounded piece familiar to us in 
the market, and may be used fresh, corned, or smoked, the 
latter being the most popular way in use. The boned 
shoulder is called a "neck sparerib, " and is a roasting 
piece. A heavy shoulder cut short is known in some locali- 
ties as a picnic ham; it is not a ham, though the meat is of 
good flavor, and there is a good deal of bone waste to it. 
The true loin consists of from nine to twelve ribs with part 
of the hip at one end and part of the shoulder at the other. 
The loin is used for roasting whole or for chops. 

Pork tenderloin corresponds to that in the beef, and 
laying under the loin is generally sold with that roast, but 
is occasionally taken out for broiling or frying. The large 
packing houses, however, furnish the tenderloins in bulk, 
packed for our markets, and they have become, during 
their season (winter months), a butchers' staple. 

The belly may be corned but it is generally smoked for 
bacon ; when the ribs are removed it is called boneless bacon ; 
when the side is divided lengthways into inside and outside 
strips, one being fat and the other lean, the latter is known 
in some localities as clear-sides, while the former is the fat 
bacon, or larding or pickled pork. 



Meats 203 

Boiled Ham 

Choose a short, thick, heavy, sugar-ctired ham, place it in 
a ham pot with enough cold water to cover it, bring it 
gradually to boiling point, and after it has boiled for a half 
hour have ready a kettle of boiling water and throw off the 
first water, adding the fresh. Then let it boil evenly until 
done. A ten-pound ham will take four hours. When the 
ham is done remove it from the fire and let it stand in the 
water until the water is cool enough to have stopped steam- 
ing. Remove the ham, skin and trim it, dredge the top 
with a little bit of brown sugar, put a paper frill around the 
bone, and send to table garnished Vith watercress. 

If the ham is to be served cold then it may remain in the 
water until it is quite cool; cooling it in this way the juices 
are kept in and make the meat more tasty. 

If the ham is to be baked then remove it from the boiling 
water when done, trim and skin it, and after skinning 
sprinkle the fat on top with sugar; stick it thickly with 
cloves, dust lightly with a little mignonette pepper, place it 
in a baking pan with a half cup of the water it was boiled 
in, mixed with a quarter of a cup of honey. Bake for 
about ;an hour, basting very often. The last half hour 
have ready some boiled sweet potatoes, cut them in half, 
lay them in the baking pan with the ham, let them brown 
lightly, and serve as a garnish with the meat. This is a 
southern way of cooking ham. 

Baked Smoked Ham 

Soak a twelve pound ham over night and in the morn- 
ing wipe it thoroughly dry, trim it and cover it entirely in 
a common biscuit crust. Be sure the crust is even in 
thickness so it will keep the juices in. Place in the oven 
and bake four hours, then break off the crust, skin and trim 
the ham. Sprinkle it thickly with brown sugar, stick it 
with cloves and put it into the oven for a long enough time 
to melt the sugar. This may be eaten hot or cold. This 



204 Meats 

method of cooking makes the ham more juicy and it will 
keep longer after it has been cooked. 

Baked Fresh Ham 

Select a short thick fresh ham and have the butcher bone 
it. Prepare a savory stuffing and after stuffing it place it in 
a baking pan, dust it with pepper and salt, and place in the 
pan a cup of white wine, the juice of half a lemon, the 
juice of an onion, a teaspoon of celery, and the same amount 
of tarragon leaves chopped fine. Baste very freely and 
bake two and a half to three hours. Strain the dish gravy, 
add to it a half cup of white stock, and thicken it with 
browned flour and butter rubbed to a cream. 

Fried Ham 

Sliced ham for frying should be cut about a half inch thick. 
If the ham is salty then put it in a frying pan with cold 
water and let it come to boiling point, then throw off the 
water and fry the ham. The ham is generally accompanied 
with fried eggs. For broiling the ham is cut a trifle thinner 
than for frying. 

Roast Pork 

Select a loin of pork weighing six or seven pounds and 
containing the tenderloin, have the butcher score it, and 
place it in the roasting-pan, dusting lightly with a little 
pepper and salt, or turning over it a quarter of a cup of 
honey mixed with a half cup of boiling water. If the 
pork is very lean it should be rubbed over with olive oil 
before roasting, but its own fat is usually sufficient. Baste 
it often. A six- or seven-pound loin should roast from two 
and a half to two and three quarter hours. 

Pork Pie 

Have three pounds of shoulder of pork, or neck, cut into 
small squares and place them in a stewpan, covering with a 



Meats 205 

grated onion, a dusting of pepper and salt, and enough 
water to cover them. Stew gently until the meat is tender. 
When done place it in a pudding dish with a cup of diced 
potato, and a half cup of diced carrot. Boil down the meat 
gravy to one half, season it well, and turn over the meat. 
Have ready a good pastry pie crust and cover the pie with it. 
Bake in the oven one hour and serve hot or cold. 

Roast Pig 

The pig for roasting comes all prepared to the butcher 
and it will be thoroughly cleaned by him all ready for the 
cook to handle, though she must be careful to see that the 
ears and nostrils are thoroughly cleansed. After stuffing 
the pig with a good sage and onion dressing then sew up the 
slit neatly and truss the legs wide apart so that they roast 
thoroughly. Put the pig in a roasting pan, baste well and 
often every part of the pig during the roasting process. It 
will take about two hours to roast a small pig but it will be 
sufficient to serve about ten people. A tureen of the dish 
gravy thickened and a dish of apple sauce are usually served 
with the pig. 

Pig's Feet 

Pig's feet may be had in the market frenched with the 
large bones taken out, ready for broiling; they also come 
ready pickled, soused, or cleaned, ready for boiling at home. 

Sausage Meat 

Hardly anyone in these modern days attempts to make 
sausage meat at home, unless on a large farm. Head 
cheese and scrapple, and the other pork-made prod- 
ucts, all come so perfectly prepared that it is a useless 
waste of time and energy to make them at home. 

Lard 

Home-made lard is undoubtedly the finest cooking fat 
there is, though many of the new vegetable cooking fats 



206 Meats 

are crowding- it into the background. Leaf lard has ad- 
vanced in price with other commodities, until home-made 
lard is getting to be almost a luxury. To make it, however, 
take seven pounds of leaf lard, cut it up into small pieces, 
and put them into a porcelain-lined kettle with a cup of 
water, which keeps it from burning until it begins to melt. 
Melt it down very slowly. When each piece has com- 
menced to shrink and there appears to be half the solid 
quantity in the pot strain off the first pail of lard. Continue 
cooking until the solid quantity is again reduced to one 
half, then strain off another pail of lard; and so on until 
nothing remains but the cracklings. When the cracklings 
are cooked down quite hard strain them off, chop them fine, 
and they may be added to com meal batter and made into 
corn bread or muffins. So there is absolutely no waste. 
When the lard is white, set, and cold put a lightly salted 
cloth, or a piece of paraffine paper, over the top of each pail 
and store in a cold place. 

Roast Stuffed Tenderloins 

Split two pork tenderloins and cut the ends square so 
that they are the same size. Make a savory dressing and 
add to it the chopped meat ends. Stuff the tenderloins, 
tie firmly, or skewer together. While they roast baste 
them with a little melted butter which has salt, pepper, a. 
spoonful of powdered sugar, and four cloves in it. When the 
tenderloins are done place them on a platter and make 
a sauce of the dish gravy by straining and adding to it a 
cup of sweet milk, thickened with a little butter and flour 
mixed to a paste. Serve in a hot gravy-boat and garnish 
the tenderloins with cress and olive rings. 

Lomo 

Have enough slices of pork, taken from the loin or 
shoulder and sliced thin enough to broil, to allow two to 
a portion. Let them marinate for one hour in vinegar to 



Meats 207 

which has been added a small quantity of pepper and salt 
and a bud of garlic; then drain them, wipe dry, and broil on 
a greased broiler. Serve the slices around a heap of curried 
rice in the center of the platter, making an outer border of 
thick slices of cold boiled potatoes that have been delicately 
broiled. 

Sausage Pasty 

Make a good puff paste, roll put, and cut into pieces four 
inches wide and twice as long. Take six or eight good 
country sausages, remove the meat from the skins, seasoning 
the meat highly and adding a finely chopped pepper, the 
juice of an onion, and a little savory spice. Put a tablespoon 
in each piece of the crust, roll and press the ends together, 
and bake twenty minutes to half an hour in a buttered 
shallow pan. Serve two to a portion on a doily garnished 
with a spray of cress. 

Grilled Ham with Bananas 

Cut into thin slices the required amount of raw ham and 
broil delicately. Skin some bananas, cut them in half 
lengthwise, season with salt and pepper, roll in beaten eggs 
and fine bread crumbs, and fry in hot bacon fat. Place the 
ham on a hot platter with a slice of banana on each piece, 
garnish the dish with parsley, and serve. 



POULTRY 

One of the first things for the young housekeeper to learn 
is how to select good poultry, and to learn in the early 
housekeeping days is to save many dollars and spoiled 
meals. There is hardly any food commodity more difi&cult 
of selection than poultry, unless it is the evasive cantaloupe. 
We are generally led to suppose that poultry is at its natural 
best from October until March, but the incubator and cold- 
storage facilities keep the market supplied with acceptable 
goods the year around. 

Of course the birds that are unnaturally mothered, fed, 
and fattened may make a fine appearance, but the flavor is 
not up to the real thing, and they invariably weep away 
their unnatural fat in the dipping pan, leaving the meat flat 
and tasteless. A dry-picked chicken, as it is known in 
market lore, is the best to buy, for those that have been 
scalded to be more easily plucked and quickly done are sub- 
jected to a process that is responsible for much of the so- 
called ptomaine poisoning. In the season when the birds 
are not up to their very best they are called " saggy " by the 
experienced butchers and poulterers. The real spring 
chicken or broiler is prime in July, August, and September, 
when its weight averages from two to four pounds. Age in 
the barnyard fowls makes such a transformation that the 
spring cock is at one year old only fit for the soup pot or to 
make jelly of, while the hen of the same age is still tenderly 
inclined toward the insinuations of the carving knife; that 
is, if it is good and sharp. 

208 



Poultry 209 

How to Stviff Fowl 

In stuffing a chicken it should not be filled to bursting 
point, as the dressing, if it is mostly of bread, will sw 11, 
and if it bursts through it gives a most untidy appearance 
to the roaster. Chickens split and roasted should be covered 
until ready to brown, as they burn quickly and dry up 
before they are really done inside; also they require a gener- 
ous amount of butter in the cooking. Chicken should be 
wrapped in clean linen cloths if laid on the ice, and not 
come in contact with anything that might not be absolutely 
clean. Ducks are chosen in the same way as the chickens. 
They are not as economical eating, nor are they as varied 
in daily usefulness, the chicken being by far the best all 
rounder. 

As regards the toothsome capon chickens, the rule respect- 
ing age does not hold good, for there is rarely a more de- 
licious bird to be enjoyed than a well fed and well dressed 
capon. Age does not dry up the juices, and, like old wine, 
they grow more mellow with age. At three years old even 
they are as tender as chicks with the proper chicken flavor 
fully developed. 

It should be borne in mind as a good rule in choosing 
poultry that the small-boned and short-legged poultry are 
likely to excel the contrary sort in delicacy of color, flavor, 
and fine texture of their flesh. 

If a chicken is to be used within a few hours of its pur- 
chase, singe it carefully and quickly over a brown-paper- 
flame, or over the gas jet, if not held too close; take out all 
pinfeathers and, making a three-inch slit in the apron, draw 
it, being very careful not to break the little green gall-blad- 
der attached to the liver, as, if broken, it embitters the 
entire flesh and sometimes renders it uneatable. Remove 
the lungs, which cling tightly to the ribs and are often over- 
looked by the careless or inexperienced cook, and cut out 
the oil-bag at the base of the tail that tradition says "goes 
over the fence last"; wipe out the inside with a clean, dry 
14 



21 o Poultry 

cloth and lay on a clean plate next the ice; do not wash 
it until ready for use. Free the liver, gizzard, and heart • 
from the intestines, and place with the chicken after cleaning 
them. If the chicken is not for immediate use do not draw 
it, but put it in a clean linen cloth and lay it directly on 
the ice. If drawn too long beforehand the meat dries out 
too much, and if the weather is damp it gets "slippery" — 
n-ot an inviting condition — and requires a good washing in 
cold water to which a trifle of baking-soda has been added 
to render it wholesome again. 

The real chicken season is from early fall to late spring. 
In very early summer capons for roasting and chickens for 
fricasseeing are all the market affords outside of cold-stor- 
age birds. A chicken is a fowl under two years old. A 
pullet is a young hen. Broilers are chickens four or five 
months old. A capon is a castrated cock or spayed hen. 

For boiling, a young fowl may be used, always select- 
ing a chicken that is short and thick and one with a 
deep breast; usually the yellow-skinned chickens are 
the best for this purpose. If the chicken is properly 
cleaned, the leg sinews drawn out, and it is carefully trussed, 
it will boil most satisfactorily and yield a plentiful supply 
of sliced cold meat. Some housewives drop into the water 
in which the chicken is to be boiled a small sliced onion, a 
sprig of celery, a small bunch of savory herbs, a bay leaf, and 
a sliced carrot, so that after the chicken is done and has 
been removed from Ihe water the broth may be strained, 
and when cool the grease removed and seasoned, and then 
set away to jell. The addition to the water of a few extra 
pairs of chicken feet, which the butcher always has on hand, 
will aid the jelling process and will also improve the flavor 
of the broth. 

When selecting a chicken for roasting, procure one that 
weighs not less than four to five pounds, otherwise it will 
not yield sufficient meat to pay for the amount of fuel used 
in its cooking and the trouble in making the dressing, trus- 
sing it, and so on. The roasting chicken should be carefully 



Poultry 211 

cleaned, the pinfeathers removed, the neck also, and the 
breast stuffed French fashion. The sinews should be re- 
moved from the legs and it must not be stuffed too full. 

For broiling, the "broilers" are especially appropriate. 
They run from a pound and a half up to two and a half and 
there is no finer chicken than this when it reaches the 
weight of two to two and a half pounds for smothering, 
frying, for fricassee, or to joint for casserole use. 

Maiyland Fried Chicken 

Place a chicken after having it carefully jointed and cut 
into pieces in a large frying pan with a heaping tablespoon of 
butter and one of lard and cover almost to the top of the 
pan with cold water. Set on the fire and allow it to cook 
rather slowly for about half an hour, covered tightly. When 
it begins to brown turn the pieces with a fork. Serve on 
a hot platter garnished with toast sippets and parsley. If 
any of the gravy is left In the pan after the chicken has 
been browned, add to it a cupful of milk In which a little 
cornstarch and flour has been rubbed smooth, and a little 
cream; stir carefully until the gravy Is fairly thick and 
smooth, then serve in a hot tureen to use over the mashed 
potato. 

Chicken a la Mount Vernon 

Dissolve a tablespoon of plain gelatine in three fourths 
of a cup of hot chicken stock. Beat until frothy and add 
one cup of cream and one and one half cups of cold chicken 
cut into dice. Season with a saltspoon each of salt and 
pepper. Chill thoroughly. Make a sauce by dissolving 
one half tablespoon of gelatine in two tablespoons of 
cold water. Add to It the beaten yolks of two eggs, adding 
salt, a teaspoon each of sugar and mustard, two table- 
spoons of lemon juice, and one half cup of hot milk. Cook 
in double boiler until it thickens. Chill. Pour over 



212 Poxiltry 

chicken, and serve with border of rice. Garnish with 
parsley and tender white stalks of celery. 

Poulet k la Marengo 

Cut a tender young fowl, after singeing and cleaning 
it, into eight or ten pieces; put them into a clean stewpan 
with four tablespoons of the best olive oil, brown them over 
a moderate fire, and when slightly browned dredge them 
with about a tablespoon of flour. When that is done pour 
in a pint of rich stock and let simmer gently for about half 
an hour, taking off the fat as it rises to the top. Add 
twenty button mushrooms halved, a saltspoon of pepper, 
and a half teaspoon of salt, a teaspoon of sugar, and half a 
bud of garlic. Cook five minutes; then remove the chicken, 
piling it pyramid fashion on the dish. Reduce the sauce by 
boiling it quickly and potir over the fowl. Garnish with 
toast sippets and parsley. 

Fowl Pilau 

Wash carefully one pound of the best rice, put it in a 
frying pan with two ounces of butter, and cook it over 
a slow fire until it is slightly browned, stirring it constantly. 
Fix the fowl as for boiling, and put it in the stewpan with 
two quarts of good strong stock. Make a spice bag with 
forty cardamon seeds, half an ounce of coriander seeds, and 
a quarter ounce each of cloves, allspice, mace, and half an 
ounce of cinnamon, and a quarter of an ounce of whole 
peppers. Drop the bag in with the chicken and let the 
chicken boil until it is tender; then add the rice and let 
cook until the rice is tender and almost dry. Fry delicately 
six strips of bacon, fry in butter three sliced onions, and have 
ready two eggs hard boiled. Place the fowl in the center 
of the dish, smother it with the rice, garnish with the bacon, 
onions and hard-boiled eggs cut into quarters. Serve very 
hot, removing the spice bag before sending it to table. 



Poultry 213 

Broiled-Chicken 

Select broilers weighing between a pound and a half and 
two pounds each; split them in half and, when broiled, lay 
each half on a toast sippet, garnishing with parsley. A half 
chicken is served to a portion. 

Chicken au Gratin 

Chop the dark meat, add a small grated onion, a tea- 
spoon of finely chopped celery, a tablespoon of bread 
crumbs, seasoning, allowing a generous lump of butter to 
each ramekin of the mixture, with a tablespoon of sherry 
to each, and a light sprinkling of grated cheese over the top. 
Bake a delicate brown in the oven. Serve in the ramekins 
with a tiny dry toast finger at the side. 

Chicken Chop Suey 

This Americanized Chinese dish is not as complicated or 
difficult to make as it would seem when one is eating it ; it 
is quite within the possibilities of the home cook. Take the 
boned meat of a plump chicken with one sliced onion and 
fry it, after seasoning it well, in hot lard; add a cup of finely 
chopped ham, a half cup of finely minced celery, a half cup 
of green beans, a half cup of bamboo sprouts, and a half 
cup of thinly sliced button mushrooms. Add also a half 
cup of rich stock, and a quarter of a cup of Chinese sauce. 
Cover closely and cook until the chicken is tender. 
Thicken the sauce with flour beaten smooth in two table- 
spoons of cream, and add a tablespoon of finely chopped 
parsley. Serve hot with boiled rice, or fried noodles. 

Chicken Shortcake 

This dish must be put together at the last possible mo- 
ment and served immediately. Make a good shortcake 
of biscuit dough. When done split the cake and butter it. 



214 Poultry- 

Have ready a plate of thinly sliced boiled chicken which 
has been cooled but not iced. Fill the shortcake with the 
chicken and spread thickly with a good mayonnaise, lay 
on the upper half, lightly butter the top, then spread it 
with a small bottle of mac^doine vegetables that have been 
drained, chopped, and marinated in French dressing for one 
hour, then drained again and mixed with mayonnaise. 
Serve the shortcake hot and as quickly as possible after 
laying up. Garnish with sprays of parsley drawn through 
thin slices of lemon. 

Chicken en Casserole 

Prepare and stew one tender jointed chicken until tender 
enough to remove the large bones; spread one cup of fresh 
boiled rice on the bottom of a well buttered casserole, then 
the chicken, then a cup of button mushrooms halved and 
three sliced truffles, a saltspoon of pepper and a half tea- 
spoon of salt, a gill of melted butter, two gills of the water 
in which the chicken was stewed, the juice of an onion, two 
tablespoons of grated English cheese, and a gill of sweet 
cream. Serve with it fresh asparagus with drawn butter 
sauce. 

Chicken Madrilaine 

Clean and joint one four-pound fowl and place it in a 
two-gallon soup kettle with two cleaned and split calf's 
feet. Add one pound each of washed and cut carrots, leeks, 
and onions, six tomatoes, a bud of garlic, one teaspoon of 
curry powder, saltspoon of salt, and a half saltspoon of 
pepper. Fill the pot with cold water, place it over the fire, 
and after it has boiled five minutes draw it to one side 
and allow it to boil slowly and evenly for three hours. 
Remove from the fire, strain through a coarse sieve, then 
through cheesecloth into wet molds. This should be very 
clear when cold. It may be served in cups like cold con- 
somm6 or small quantities may be melted, to which vege- 



Poxiltry 215 

table macedoine or chopped meats may be added, then 
allowed to jell again. The chicken may be taken from the 
bones and chopped for hash or salad. 

Chicken Compote 

Dice enough cold boiled chicken to make two pints; 
chop two of the livers with three hard-boiled eggs, and 
dust with pepper, salt, and a little grated nutmeg. Stir 
two tablespoons of flour into a gill of melted butter and add 
a cup of the chicken broth; stir three minutes, then add 
three quarters of a cup of sweet cream. When all is hot, 
add the chicken and simmer for ten minutes. Beat two 
egg yolks with a quarter cup of cream, add it and let all 
cook a minute more; then remove from the fire and add a 
teaspoon of lemon juice and a tablespoon of Worcestershire 
sauce. Serve garnished with toast sippets and parsley. 

Fricassee of Spring Chicken 

This is an excellent cold dish and is easy to prepare. Take 
a spring chicken weighing about a pound and a half and cut 
the legs and breast in two, season with a saltspoon each of 
salt, pepper, and paprika. Spread in a saut^ pan two finely 
sliced onions, a bay leaf, thyme, parsley, and a little piece 
of celery. Place the chicken on top, dust with a spoonful 
of flour, and cover all with a little of the broth. Cover and 
cook for twenty minutes, then take the cut chicken and 
place it in a deep dish. Put two leaves of gelatine into the 
gravy, then strain and add a little heavy cream to thicken 
it; baste the chicken thoroughly with this thick gravy, then 
allow it to cool, covering it with a thin layer of chicken jelly. 
Decorate with sliced truflies and sprays of fresh cress. 

Chicken a la King 

Dice enough cold boiled chicken to make two cups. 
Sant6 in a gill of melted butter for five minutes, a cup of 



2i6 Poviltry 

button mushrooms, a shredded pepper, six thinly sliced 
truffles, and a tablespoon of Worcestershire sauce and the 
same amount of chutney syrup. Then add one grated 
onion, two tablespoons of flour, a cup of milk, salt, pepper, 
and a grating of nutmeg, and the chicken. Bring all to 
boiling point, then thicken with two egg yolks beaten in 
three quarters of a cup of cream and four tablespoons of 
melted butter. More seasoning may be added to taste. 
A tablespoon of sherry improves the flavor. Serve hot 
with toasted cheese sandwiches. 

Chicken k la Papigo 

Chicken k la papigo requires one four-and-a-half-pound 
frying chicken for three people. Joint, singe, and wash 
carefully, place in a deep frying pan with a tablespoon of 
lard and two tablespoons of butter, cover with cold water, 
set on the stove, and cover closely until it has cooked twenty 
to twenty-five minutes. Remove the cover, sprinkle with 
pepper and salt, and pour off a cup of the liquid, dust very 
lightly with a little flour and brown, transfer to the platter, 
then turn the liquid into the frying pan, adding one onion, 
one pepper which has been chopped and fried delicately 
in butter, and three quarters of a cup of cream. Blend 
together a little butter and flour and thicken the gravy. 
Pour it over the chicken, garnishing with cress and tri- 
angular toast sippets. 

Chicken Pie 

Joint carefully a fresh, fat chicken, boil it in fair water, 
adding an onion, a bunch of herbs, pepper, and salt, until it 
is very tender. Take from the fire and while hot strip out 
some of the largest bones, and when slightly cool arrange 
in the pastry-lined dish the chicken pieces, add a few slices 
of hard-boiled eggs, and, if they are liked, a few truffles. 
Then strain over it as much of the water the chicken was 



Poxiltry- 217 

boiled in as will fill the pie, put on the crust, leaving the 
opening at the top, and bake it three hours, covering the 
crust as before so that it does not get too brown. 

Chicken Sausage 

This is an old recipe said to have been popular in 1752. 

Take two spring chickens, weighing two pounds each, and 
chop them fine. Add to them an equal amount of fair pure 
lard and mix thoroughly, adding a cup of fine dry bread 
crumbs, the yolks of three eggs, pepper, salt, a little summer 
savory, sage, and enough sweet milk to bind the mixture 
so that it may be shaped into little sausages. Heat and 
grease the frying pan and fry the sausages in the usual way. 

Broiled Chicken and Jellied Giblets 

Broil the chicken carefully; be generous with the butter 
over it. Lay it on toast, to catch the draining butter, and 
garnish with fresh watercress. The giblets of as many 
chickens as are used may be stewed tightly covered until 
done. Chop fine, add pepper, salt, juice of an onion, 
a teaspoon of Worcestershire sauce, a dash of sugar, and a 
teaspoon of very finely chopped celery. Add this to a 
tomato jelly mixture and let jell in small heart molds. 
Lay the hearts on a bed of cress, to be served with each 
portion of chicken. 

Chicken Liver Saute — Chafing Dish 

Cut up twelve chicken or turkey livers, season with salt 
and pepper, and put them into the frying pan with two 
ounces of butter and three ounces of bacon sliced and cut 
into inch lengths. Fry on a quick fire for two or three 
minutes, add half a pint of brown sauce, a little chopped 
tarragon and parsley. Just before removing from the fire 
add a little sherry and a lump of fresh butter. 



2i8 Poultry- 

Use of " Left Overs " 

What is remaining the second day of any sort of roast 
fowl may be neatly jointed and cut into pieces and steeped 
for an hour in a little vinegar, salt, cayenne pepper, and 
minced onion. Make a batter of one half pound of flour, 
half pint of hot water, two ounces of butter, and the white 
of two eggs; beat the batter well and dip the pieces of fowl 
in it and fry them in very hot lard; pile on a napkin and 
garnish with cress. 

Capon 

The capon is stuffed and prepared the same way as any 
other roasting chicken, and it is rarely served any other 
way, unless it is done in a casserole with sweetbreads 
and mushrooms. 

Turkey 

For roasting a hen turkey is considered the choicest, 
though a young gobbler is also very tasty, while a full grown 
gobbler is only good for boiUng. Singe, draw, and remove 
the tendons from the turkey, truss it and stuff it in the 
usual way, then place it in the oven on its breast bone, 
giving it an extra pair of skewer legs to hold it in place. 
As it roasts in this way all of the juices run into the breast 
meat instead of weeping away in the pan, and the last 
minute it may be turned and lightly browned before serv- 
ing. A ten pound turkey will require even roasting for 
two hours and a larger one three hours or longer. When 
the turkey is cooking if it is inclined to brown or burn too 
quickly lay a sheet of asbestos paper over it. All fowls 
should be trussed with asbestos cord for it does not burn in 
the oven. 

What to do With Left-over Turkey 

If the housewife is possessed of patience the most un- 
promising turkey rack may be made to yield dainty surprise 



Poultry 219 

dishes under her careful manipulation the day after Thanks- 
giving. 

If there is enough meat left to slice nicely it may be thinly 
sliced and covered with a damp linen cloth and placed 
in the ice-box, and it will do for the next dinner. With the 
addition of hot vegetables and a fresh salad the second 
dinner will be almost as good as the first. 

Pick all the meat off from the rack and chop it fine; put 
away half of it with the gravy and dressing for a nice turkey 
hash on toast. 

Take the other half and add a finely chopped onion and a 
little celery, a few fine bread crumbs and seasoning; fill 
half green pepper shells with the mixture and plenty of 
butter, grate a little bit of cheese over the top, and bake a 
delicate brown. The rack may be jointed up and covered 
with one quart of water, one can of tomatoes, and a soup 
bunch. Boil slowly and when done strain and cool. When 
cold remove the grease, heat, season, and when it boils 
add quick little dumplings, finely broken macaroni, or rice. 

Deviled Turkey Legs 

Score drumsticks of turkey to the bone three times. 
Dip them in melted butter, spread with a little French 
mustard mixed with a teaspoon of Worcestershire sauce, 
season with a saltspoon each of salt and pepper and three 
drops of tobasco. Broil seven to ten minutes, basting 
with melted butter and turning frequently. Serve hot. 

Roast Goose 

When choosing a goose see that the skin is white, the feet 
yellow and pliable, and the breast deep and plump. When 
cleaned and trussed stuff the goose with a good sage and 
onion stuffing and roast it one and a half to two hours 
according to the size. Another way of cooking goose is to 
stuff it with a chestnut stuffing and boil it until it is tender. 



220 Poultry- 

then put it into the oven long enough to brown it well. 
Serve with a giblet sauce for either dish. 

Swedish Roast Goose 

Rub inside of the goose with salt and pepper. Stuff 
with mixture of chopped apples, stoned prunes, cut up, and 
dried bread crumbs. Sew up and put in a very hot oven. 
Pour a cupful of boiling water with level teaspoon of salt 
in pan. Roast until well done, allowing about twenty- 
five minutes for each pound. Serve with brown giblet 
gravy. 

Ducks 

The best ducks that come to the markets in the vicinity 
of New York are the celery fed Long Island ducks. The 
canvasback ducks are perhaps a little bit finer in flavor 
but are double the price of their Long Island cousins. In 
selecting a duck those that are plump all over will be found 
the best, for those artificially and quickly fattened for 
market will weep away much of the fat in the pan and the 
meat is apt to be greasy and unwholesome. Almost every- 
one has the poulterer draw the ducks for them, but if it is 
left for the cook to do it is a simple matter. Cut off the 
head and with a knife loosen the gullet which takes the 
place of the crop in the chicken. Make a slit in the apron 
below the breast bone and by grasping hold of the gizzard 
the entire intestines may be drawn out including the long 
canal that is attached to the gullet. Truss the wings back 
flat; the legs growing close at the sides of the body and 
being naturally short do not require the tying that chicken 
legs do. The breast is flat and broad like that of all swim- 
ming birds. Stuff the duck with any good stuffing liked 
and roast from one and a half to two hours. 

For the roast duck or duckling, as the case may be, there 
is nothing nicer than a good savory bread stuffing, though 



Poultry 221 

many people like an oyster or some other fancy dressing. 
For the savory bread stuf&ng, take, the day before it is 
needed, a loaf of baker's bread and with a sharp knife cut off 
very thinly the crust of the entire loaf. Then break the 
bread into pieces and put it into a square of cheesecloth, 
tie it up, and hang it in the air. When ready to make the 
stuffing, crumb the bread fine and add to it the juice of 
a large onion, pepper, salt, a quarter pound of butter cut 
into small pieces, a teaspoon of powdered sage, a dash of 
mace, a little sweet basil, a little sweet marjoram, a gill of 
cream, and one beaten egg. Mix the dressing thoroughly; 
if it seems a little dry, add nothing more, as the butter and 
meat juices will moisten it sufficiently. There is one 
addition many Southerners make to this dressing, which is a 
slice of pickled pork diced and fried a delicate brown. 
Roast the ducks or ducklings in the usual way, covering 
them until they are well cooked through before allowing 
them to brown. Strain the dish gravy from the roasting 
pan, add a cupful of rich stock, thicken it with browned 
flour, and when ready to serve drop into it a dozen large 
seeded raisins. Garnish the ducks or ducklings with slices 
of fried tomato and cress. 

Ducks and Carrots 

Prepare for cooking a few carrots, boil them until they 
are soft, drain, put them into a saucepan, add enough 
butter to allow them to maSh well; then mash them thor- 
oughly. Add to the carrots a quarter pint of rich stock, a 
teaspoon of sugar, and a saltspoon each of salt and pepper. 
Allow them to heat again to boiling point, then rub through 
a sieve. Have ready some slices of cold duck, lay them in 
the carrot purde, and let them stay on the stove long enough 
to heat thoroughly through, but do not allow them to boil. 
Serve garnished with croutons and parsley. The carrot 
pur^e may be made in the morning and left, ready to heat 
up, until time for getting supper. 



222 Poultry 

Giblet Pie 

Clean a set of duck or goose giblets and put them in a 
stewpan with a pint of water, one onion, pepper, salt, and a 
few sprigs of savory herbs. Simmer for one and a half 
hours, take them out, cut them into small pieces, and let 
them cool. Line the shallow pudding dish with the crust 
and have one pound of rump steak cut in small pieces. 
Put a layer in the bottom, then a layer of the giblets, and so 
on; then season with pepper, salt, and some lumps of butter 
and add the strained gravy in which the giblets were boiled. 
Cover with a top crust, leaving a round hole in it, and 
bake in a good oven about one hour and a half. 

The crust may be covered with a piece of writing paper 
to keep it from getting too brown. If the cup is used to 
draw up the gravy in the pie, it is put in the bottom and 
must be not larger than the hole in the crust so that it may 
be fished out easily. This is a very cheap and very tasty 
pie. 

Guinea Fowl 

This fowl is a cross between the wild bird and the barn- 
yard fowl. Its meat is dark, of good flavor and nourishing. 
The fowls are good stuffed and roasted, fricasseed with 
potato diunpUngs or in the following way. 

Guinea Fowl en Casserole 

Fix the guinea fowl just as chicken is fixed, adding little 
potatoes, plenty of butter, pepper, salt, grated onion and 
white turnips cut in little balls with the potato cutter, a gill 
of cream, and half a cupful of milk in which a teaspoon 
of browned flour is mixed, and cook covered tightly. 

Pigeon and Squab Cookery 

In choosing pigeons it is wise to select the white feathered 
young birds, as their flesh is apt to be more delicate than 



Poultry 223 

that of the dark feathered birds, which is stronger and 
more gamy in flavor. They should be drawn at once. In 
selecting squabs pick out the short thick birds for they 
yield the most meat. Both pigeons and squabs must be 
dry picked. 

Roast Pigeons 

Clean and truss the birds in the usual way, stufEng them 
with a small quantity of savory stuffing; pour a little melted 
butter over them and dust lightly with pepper and salt. 
Roast for from a half to three quarters of an hour. Add a 
little stock to the dish gravy, thicken it slightly, and turn 
into a tureen. 

Broiled Pigeons 

Fix them the same as squabs (see below), and when done 
add butter, pepper, and salt. If liked, a little smooth 
tomato or mushroom sauce may be served with the birds.^ 

Pigeon Pie 

Line individual pie dishes with good puff paste; cut a 
pound and a half of rump steak in small squares. Cut in 
small pieces three pigeons, lard them with butter, and put 
them with the steak in a stewpan with a pint of good red 
stock and let them stew half an hour; remove from the 
fire, and when cool season and fill the pies, adding a little 
chopped button mushroom and the juice of an onion to 
each pie, with enough of the stock to fill the pie. Cover 
each with a lattice crust and bake until the crust is done. 

Broiled Squabs 

For broiling, split the squabs down the back, clean them 
carefully, dust with pepper and salt, butter' the gridiron 
and broil over a brisk steady fire. 



224 Poultry 

Squab en Casserole 

Select plump squabs, clean, and stuff them with savory 
dressing, truss, and dust with pepper, salt, and a little 
flour, then lay them into the casserole, which has been well 
buttered, add a grated onion, a grated carrot, the heart of 
celery, finely chopped, a few potato balls cut with the 
scoop, a lump of butter, six raisins, a slice of bacon, a wine- 
glass of white wine, and a cup and a half of cold water. 
Wipe the inside of the cover very lightly with a bud of 
garlic. This should cook at least two hours in the oven and 
is of course served in the casserole. 

Stewed Squab 

Prepare the squabs, after cleaning, by cutting them into 
halves, using enough to allow one bird to a person when 
served. Put them into the stewpan with a slice of bacon, 
enough white stock to cover them, and stew a half hour. 
Dish the birds on toast and thicken the gravy, adding sea- 
soning to taste; then pour it over the birds. Garnish them 
with parsley and potatoes on the half shell. 

Boned Squab 

Have one jumbo squab boned. Fill it with savory 
stuffing and lay it in a well buttered shallow baking pan. 
Cover for twenty minutes, basting with melted butter to 
which pepper, salt, and a gill of white wine have been added. 
Delicately brown it, lay it on a slice of toast, slightly thicken 
the gravy, turn a little over the squab, garnish with cress 
and toast sippets, and serve fresh stewed pineapple sauce 
with it. 

Fried Squabs 

Clean and split four squabs, wash, and truss neatly. 
Put into a saucepan a well washed and diced soup bunch, 
a sliced onion, a bay leaf, three cloves, a tablespoon of 



Poultry 225 

Worcestershire sauce. Lay in the squabs and add two 
cups of water. Cover closely and cook gently for one hour. 
Remove squabs and stuff them with sausage meat, dust 
with flour, roll in egg and crumbs, and fry in very hot fat. 
Drain the gravy they were boiled in, thicken and season 
it, and turn it over toast slices on a hot platter and lay the 
squabs on it, garnishing them with sprays of fried parsley. 

To Bone Fowls 

After drawing, singeing, and wiping out the fowl to be 
boned cut off the head. Next cut through the skin all 
around the first joint of each leg and pull them off from the 
fowl to draw out the large tendons. Raise the flesh first 
from the lower end of the backbone and a little also from 
the end of the breastbone; work the knife gradually to the 
socket of the thigh; with the point of the knife detach the 
joint from it, take the end of the bone firmly in the fingers, 
and cut the flesh clean from it down to the next joint, round 
which pass the point of the knife carefully; cut round the 
next bone, keeping the edge of the knife close to it, until 
the whole of the leg is done. Remove the bones from the 
other leg in the same way. Next detach the flesh from the 
back and breast bones sufficiently to enable you to reach 
the upper joints of the wings. Proceed with these as with 
the legs, but be careful not to pierce the skin of the second 
joint; it is usual to leave the pinions unboned, in order to 
shape the fowl more readily when it is dressed. The wish- 
bone and neck bones may now be easily cut away, the 
back and side bones taken out without being divided, and 
the breastbone separated carefully from the flesh. As the 
work progresses the flesh must be turned back from the 
bones upon the fowl until the bird is turned completely 
inside out. After the one remaining bone is removed, draw 
the wings and legs back to their proper form, and turn the 
fowl right side out. 

In stuffing the fowl and re-shaping very often the legs 

IS 



226 Poultry- 

are drawn inside the body, as is the neck, which makes the 
bird very compact. 

Turkeys are boned in the same manner and the legs and 
neck are always drawn in to help fill the large cavity. 

If securely trussed and well sewed the birds may be 
either boiled, stewed in rich gravy, or roasted after boning, 
but they must be gently cooked for fear of bursting, and 
they must not be stuffed too full. 

Domestic Rabbit Stew 

Select a pair of rabbits that are fat and freshly killed, 
clean them, remove the skin, and wash thoroughly. Cut, 
or joint, them, place them in the stewpan, and fill it three 
quarters full of cold water. Put on the fire and allow it 
to boil for five minutes, skimming carefully; then add a 
large thinly sliced onion, one diced carrot, two tablespoons 
of chopped parsley, and let cook until the rabbit is very 
tender. Then add six potatoes cut in thick slices; cook 
twenty minutes longer, then remove the rabbit and vege- 
tables to a hot platter with the skimmer; thicken the gravy 
and turn over the stew. 

Rabbit Pie 

Cut up one young rabbit in pieces, removing carefully 
the large bones. Line a deep pudding dish with good pie 
crust and put in a layer of the meat, a layer of thinly sliced 
hard-boiled egg, a grated onion, and a little diced ham; dust 
lightly with pepper and salt, a grating of nutmeg, and 
continue in this fashion until the pie dish is filled. Pour 
over the top a half gill of melted butter and a cup of water 
to which a tablespoon of chutney syrup, a teaspoon of 
Worcestershire sauce, and tablespoon of tomato ketchup 
have been added. Put on the top crust, leaving a large 
steam vent in the center, and bake an hour and a half. 



GAME 

Included under this head are partridges, pheasants, wild 
ducks and geese, prairie chickens, quail, snipe, rail birds, 
spruce hens, plover, mud hen, kingfisher, and wild turkey; 
squirrels, opossums, bear, buffalo, venison, ostrich meat, 
and terrapin. 

All game should be hung with feathers or fur on, but 
carefully drawn, for a short time, covered from insects. 
Of cotirse weather conditions govern the time for hanging. 

Draw the game birds carefully and wipe them out but do 
not wash them. It is said that wild game is more easily 
digested than domestic meat. The birds mentioned are 
usually broiled, roasted, or cooked en casserole according to 
taste and their size. 

Squirrels are cooked in the same ways that rabbits or 
Belgian hares are cooked. 

Opossums are cleaned, stuffed with any good savory 
stuffing, or with potato, and roasted for three hours or more 
according to size, being basted often. 

Venison, buffalo, and bear steaks are cut, cooked, and 
served in the same way as the ordinary beef steak. When 
the carcass of these animals is cut up it is done in the same 
way that beef is cut. These meats must be served very 
hot, for when cold they are heavy eating and unpalatable. 

The baby ostrich, weighing from sixty to one hundred 
pounds, is prepared by plucking, cleaning, and removing 
head and legs. It is then placed in a tub to marinate in the 
following mixture: Six pounds of sliced onions, five of 
sliced carrots, three bunches of parsley, a quarter pound 
of whole black pepper, two dozen bay leaves, thirty cloves, 

227 



228 Game 

twelve whole allspice, three sliced garlics, four quarts of 
claret, one quart of vinegar, two quarts of sherry, a pint 
of brandy, two pounds of brown sugar, a quarter pound of 
juniper berries, all mixed thoroughly together. Let the 
bird marinate for three days, turning it often and keeping 
well covered. Remove the bird at the end of that time and 
place it in a large pan with about five quarts of water. It 
must be roasted in a baker's oven not too hot. Baste often 
with the marinade. After cooking two hours add the 
marinade and cook from four to six hours until it is a nice 
brown color. 

Serve the bird k la barbacue. Skim and strain the gravy 
and add to it a cup of fresh horseradish, two pints of currant 
jelly, salt and pepper to taste, one grated orange peel, and 
six oranges thinly sliced. Boil fifteen minutes and serve 
in a hot tureen. This is a rare and unusual dish. 

Quail Boiled in Butter 

Take one dozen properly prepared quail and put them 
into three pounds of melted butter. Let them boil evenly 
until tender.' When done, serve on toast garnished with 
lemon points and parsley, with a, dish border of broiled 
potatoes. The butter the birds were boiled in may be 
strained and set aside for future use to fry things in. 

To Prepare Terrapin 

Wash the terrapin by shaking it about in a tub of 
water holding jiist enough to immerse it, then plunge head 
downward into a large vessel of water that is boiling hard. 
Cook fifteen minutes or until the skin can be rubbed from 
the legs with a wet cloth. Take out and put again over the 
fire with just enough boiling water to cover, and when 
the shells begin to open it is suflSciently tender. 

Next pull off the under shell and cut the ligaments which 
fasten it to the upper shell. There is then just a mass of legs 



Game 2:29 

and intestines. Pull off the legs and the intestines massed 
around the liver, eggs, and sandbag only are left. Cut off 
the liver, taking care to leave enough attached to the gall 
so as not to break it ; take out the eggs and put them with 
the liver in cold water. 

Remove all the meat from the shells and have ready a 
half pint of good champagne sauce, and allow the meat to 
simmer in it for fifteen minutes. 

The liver may be boiled and added; and the eggs, if any 
are present, may also be boiled and added to the stew. 



STUFFINGS, SAUCES, AND GRAVIES 
Good Stuffing 

Take one pound of sausage meat and add to it the juice 
of two onions, a tablespoon of Worcestershire sauce, a 
tablespoon of chopped tarragon leaves, pepper, salt, a tea- 
spoon of finely powdered sage, a tablespoon of sugar, and 
beat into it the stiffly beaten whites of two eggs. Add two 
cups of bread crumbs, a half cup of apple sauce, and a half 
cup of finely chopped celery. Mix thoroughly and last of 
all stir in the two egg yolks. 

Savory Stuffing 

This is especially good for geese or turkeys. Take three 
tart apples, pared, cored, and chopped fine, one onion, one 
stalk of celery, a teaspoonful of parsley, and a cup and a 
half of bread crumbs. Chop all fine and mix together, 
adding a lump of butter the size of an egg, a tablespoon 
of sugar, pepper and salt, a teaspoon of powdered sage. 
Moisten all with a gill of cream. If it is not quite moist 
enough, add another lump of butter, which will moisten it 
sufficiently when heated, and it is ready for use. 

Potato Stuffing 

Force eight boiled potatoes through a potato ricer. Add 
one third cup melted butter, one cup cream, three eggs well 
beaten together, and two medium-sized onions finely 
chopped. Beat two minutes and season with pepper and 
salt. 

230 



Stuffings, Sauces, and Gravies 231 

Chestnut StuflSng 

A very good chestnut stuffing for goslings is made by 
taking fifty chestnuts, peeled, blanched, and chopped fine; 
place in a saucepan with two ounces of butter, a half pound 
of sausage meat, a little minced parsley, half a bud of 
garlic, and a generous dusting of pepper and salt; cook for 
ten minutes, add a half cup of fine bread crumbs, and when 
cool stuff the fowl. 

Turkish StuflSng 

Parboil two handfuls of rice, peel a dozen chestnuts and 
cut them fine, add a handful of currants, a few pistachio 
nuts, a saltspoon each of pepper and salt, and a dash of cin- 
namon; mix and heat all together. When a little cool, 
stuff the turkey and garnish with stuffed peppers and 
parsley. 

Forcemeat StuflSng 

Cook two finely chopped onions in one ounce of fresh 
butter for five minutes. Soak the crtunbs of a stale loaf of 
bread in water for ten minutes; press out the water, add two 
beaten eggs, a saltspoon each of salt, pepper, grated nut- 
meg, sage, three skinned sausages, and a little chopped 
parsley. Add the cooked onions and mix well together, 
then stuff the ttirkey. 

Roast Turkey, Oyster StuflSng 

Wash and dry two dozen medium-sized oysters, add a 
cup and a half of bread crumbs, juice of one onion, dusting of 
salt and pepper, and tablespoon of celery essence. Stuff 
the turkey and serve with brown gravy. Garnish with 
watercress. 



232 Stuffings, Sauces, and Gravies 

Roast Turkey, Chestnut StuflSng 

Peel and blanch a pint of chestnuts, chop fine, and cover 
with a cup of water in a clean saucepan and boil until soft; 
rub through a sieve and add to two small cups of bread 
crumbs, a saltspoon of pepper, half a teaspoon of salt, a 
dash of sweet herbs and juice of a small onion, two well 
beaten eggs; mix well and stuff the turkey. Serve with 
brown gravy, to which add a gill of white wine. Garnish 
with tiny fried sausages. 

iloast Turkey, Macedoine StuflBng 

Drain one bottle of macedoine vegetables and add two 
cups of crumbs, saltspoon each of pepper and salt, a dash of 
paprika, a half cup of boiled ham chopped fine, and enough 
stock to moisten it. Stuff turkey and serve with champagne 
sauce. Garnish with fried parsnips and toast sippets. 

Celery Stuffing 

Boiled turkey with celery stufiQng makes its appeal to the 
hearty appetite. Chop three stalks of white celery, add a 
small cup of bread crumbs, two ounces of melted butter, 
a saltspoon of pepper, a half teaspoon of salt and juice of 
one onion, two beaten eggs; mix all together and stuff 
the turkey. Sew up the apron, make a French neck and 
truss it firmly. Wring a cloth out of cold water, flour it 
and wrap the turkey in it, and plunge it into boiling water; 
boil quickly for half an hour, then slowly for three hours 
for a nine-pound turkey and ten minutes for each added 
pound. Serve with celery sauce and garnish with parsley. 

Sausage Stuffing 

Take one pint of bread crumbs and add to them three 
quarters of a pound of sausage meat; mix well and add a 
grated onion, a saltspoon of pepper, a half teaspoon of 
salt, a half teaspoon of sage, two tablespoons of chutney 



Stuffings, Sauces, and Gravies 233 

syrup, and a small cup of apple sauce. Mix thoroughly 
and it is ready to use. 

Sweet StufSng 

Take a pint of bread crumbs and add to them a quarter 
cup of very finely minced celery, one cup of finely minced 
cold boiled chicken, a tablespoon of finely minced boiled 
ham, a half saltspoon of pepper, a half teaspoon of salt, 
a half gill of melted butter, a tablespoon of ginger syrup, 
and a small tumbler of currant jelly. Break the jelly into 
pieces and beat it through the stufiing. 

Nuts are nice added to almost any of the bread stuffings, 
fresh or salted, chopped or ground fine. 

Art of Making Sauces and Gravies 

The preparation and appearance of sauces and gravies 
are of the highest consequence in modem cooking, and in 
nothing else does the talent and taste of the cook so display 
itself. Their special suitability for the various viands 
they are to accompany cannot be too carefully studied in 
order that they shall harmonize and blend with them 
perfectly. 

Sauces should possess a decided character of their own; 
and, whether sharp or sweet, savory or plain, should carry 
out their names in a distinct manner. A sauce may be hot 
or cold, but a gravy is invariably hot. A sauce is usually 
served in a sauce-boat, while a gravy is put in a gravy bowl 
or tureen. 

A brown sauce, generally speaking, should not be as 
thick as a white sauce because it is usually much richer and 
belongs in a way to the gravy family; the white sauce under 
its various names should not be thicker than cold honey, 
as it is intended to adhere to the poultry or other foods that 
it covers, allowing enough remaining in the dish to put 
an extra spoonful over each portion in serving. It should 



234 Stviffing's, Savices, and Gravies 

always be smooth and free from lumps, preferably thickened 
with butter and flour, rubbed to a paste, arrowroot, or eggs. 
In thickening the sauce it should reach boiling point but 
never boil lest it curdle. 

On no account must sauces be thickened with enough 
cornstarch, for instance, to become like custard in texture. 
A cream sauce must always be served hot and kept hot to be 
at its best. Browned flour will be found the best to thicken 
sauces and gravies with. Remember that small quantities 
cool quickly and as the gravy is served it is wise to set it 
back on the plate-warmer or over a hot water dish during the 
serving of the course at which it is used, so that the last 
helping may be as good as the first and not congealed or 
greasy by being allowed to stand and cool. 

A small double boiler, two smooth saucepans of different 
size, and, if many sauces are made, a bain-marie pan and 
saucepans, should all be kept exclusively for this purpose. 
The latter is a French convenience too little known in the 
United States. It consists of a deep square pan filled with 
boiling water into which are set small, covered, straight- 
sided saucepans holding the sauces, gravies, entries, or 
anything that requires an even, steady heat. If the dinner 
hour is a bit uncertain, sauces and gravies will in this way 
be kept in perfect condition until they are needed; in other 
circumstances they would dry out and not be fit to use. 

Sauces for fish, meats, game, cooked entries, croquettes, 
p§,t^s, and puddings are all made after rules especially laid 
down for their concoction, which, if closely followed, will 
crown the cook's efforts with success. 

Fashions in food colorings and gamishings change with 
the seasons. The popular colors of dress and decoration 
are followed as nearly as possible in the various dishes, and 
the recent black-and-white fad accentuated the idea. 

The Breton vegetable coloring paste in bottles comes in 
red, green, violet, brown, yellow and orange and rose. 
The black note is gained by the use of truffles and caviar. 
Almost all shades of these colors are possible for sauces; the 



Stuffings, Sauces, and Gravies 235 

only seeming impossibility is to effect blues, so this must be 
done by the addition of a floral garnish. 

Straight mayonnaise furnishes a beautiful yellow without 
adding extra coloring matter. Adding enough ketchup it 
may be made a shell pink, which is most decorative; again 
adding the spinach coloring matter will make it a tan or a 
golden brown. The addition of violet mustard will color 
it violet and a little of the coloring paste added will produce 
a deeper purple. This gives quite a diversity of colors for 
salad sauces by the use of the same foundation. 

A cream sauce may be left uncolored by thickening it 
without egg, and dotting it with truffles or caviar before 
serving makes it a futurist sauce. Again it ihay be made 
into a Spanish sauce by thickening it with the egg and a 
little saffron powder, and adding some chopped red pepper 
before serving. Cream sauce may be tinted pink and have 
shrimp shredded through it for a sauce chiffonade to serve 
with fish. Tinting with spinach coloring and having a little 
chopped parsley added makes the cream sauce a Dublin 
sauce to serve with boiled fish or with boiled potatoes. 

Tomato sauce requires no extra coloring, being a beautiful 
red in itself; but with the addition of capers, peas, olive 
curls, or green pepper strips it becomes a Scotch sauce to 
serve with chops or cutlets. 

Grape ketchup, and melted currant jelly sauce, asparagus 
sauce, and cucumber sauce are all good natural-colored 
sauces to serve with fish or meat. 

An English brown sauce is a rich dark brown without 
added color. Foundation sauces may also be used with 
vegetables. 

English Brown Sauce or Gravy 

Put two ounces of butter into a saucepan; slice two onions 
very thin and cook in the butter until they are a delicate 
brown, then add two pounds of shin of beef cut in small 
pieces, and two small slices of lean bacon, a half teaspoon of 



236 Stuffings, Sauces, and Gravies 

salt, a saltspoon of pepper, three cloves, and two^ quarts of 
water. Let all boil until the contents are a nice brown 
color,' stirring occasionally; then simmer gently for an hour 
and a half, strain, and when cold remove all the fat. Turn 
the sauce back into a clean saucepan and heat. Melt 
three ounces of butter in a stewpan, sift into it two ounces 
of flour, and stir until it is a light brown color; when it is 
cool, add it to the sauce and boil all up quickly. This 
sauce is good for any warmed-up meat, over hash or cutlets. 

Bechamel or French White Sauce 

Put into a clean saucepan one quart of white sfock, 
adding one small bunch of parsley carefully washecj and 
chopped, two cloves, half a bay leaf, one small bunch of 
savory herbs, a half teaspoon of salt, a saltspoon of pepper, 
and a half cup of button mushrooms. When it has boiled 
long enough to extract the flavor of all the ingredients, and 
boiled down almost one half, strain it carefully, wash the 
saucepan, then return the sauce to it ; mix one teaspoon of 
arrowroot in one pint pf cream and let it simmer very gently 
for five minutes, then add to it the reduced stock and let all 
simmer gently for ten minutes or until the sauce is of the 
right consistency for immediate use. As this is what is 
known as a foundation sauce, different sauces may be 
made from it by taking a small portion and adding other 
ingredients to it. 

A Good Cream Sauce 

Melt two tablespoons of butter in a saucepan, add two 
tablespoons of flour, one half teaspoon of salt, and a quarter 
teaspoon of pepper; rub together very smooth, then add one 
cup of cold milk. Put the saucepan over the fire and stir 
until the sauce comes to boiling point. Remove from the 
fire and set the saucepan into a larger one half filled with 
boiling water to keep the sauce at the right temperature 
until used. 



Stuffings. Savices, and Gravies 237 

French Cream Sauce 

This is a sauce to use on mushrooms and sweetbreads. The 
breads are first parboiled in salt water, then cut in pieces. 
Button mushrooms cut in halves are added. Take two 
tablespoons of butter; when melted add the juice of one 
lemon, a saltspoon of pepper, a half teaspoon of salt, and 
the juice of a small onion. Have ready a cup of cream in 
which a tablespoon of cornstarch has been dissolved. 
Take as much bicarbonate of soda as would rest on a ten- 
cent piece and put in the butter. When it froths up, add 
the cream and stir constantly until it is the right thickness. 
Set back from the heat, add the breads and the mushrooms 
and, if liked, a wineglass of sherry — a matter of taste. 
Serve in covered dish. Chicken may be used instead of the 
sweetbreads, or lobster, scallops, codfish tongues, or oysters, 
if desired. 

Tomato Sauce 

Take one can or quart of tomatoes, three chopped onions, 
one chopped pepper, one clove, a bay leaf, a bunch of 
celery cut up, half teaspoon of salt, a saltspoon of pepper, 
and a tablespoon of Worcestershire sauce. Simmer for an 
hour, then add a pinch of bicarbonate of soda and half a 
cup of sugar. Strain carefully and thicken with butter 
and flour to which a little cornstarch has been added. 
Thicken to the consistency of cold honey and strain again 
if it seems at all lumpy. Pour over the tongue and garnish 
with cress. For other uses it may be best served in a sauce- 
boat. 

Tomato Curry 

Take a tablespoonful of good curry powder, add to a 
quart of stewed and seasoned tomatoes, place in a pudding 
dish with alternate layers of uncooked, well washed rice. 



238 Stviffin^s, Sauces, and Gravies 

using a cupful of the latter; let the top layer be of bread 
crumbs, dot with butter, and bake until the rice is done. 

Burnt Onions for Gravies 

Chop one large Spanish onion and boil it five minutes in a 
half pint of water; add half a pound of sugar and simmer 
gently until the mixture becomes nearly black. Then 
strain the mixture into three quarters of a pint of boiling 
vinegar, stirring constantly with a wooden spoon. When 
cold, bottle for use. 

Drawn Butter Sauce 

Rub three tablespoons of butter with two tablespoons of 
flour, add a quarter teaspoon of salt, and a half saltspoon of 
pepper. Add slowly one cup of boiling water and cook 
until the sauce is thick and smooth. 

Though the following sauces are classified they are not 
limited solely to the dishes for which they are given, and 
may be used with any foods the housewife may feel she 
would like to serve them with. 

SAUCES TO BE SERVED WITH FISH 

Anchovy Sauce 

Take one and a half tablespoons of bottled anchovy 
essence, blend it perfectly with a half pint of melted butter, 
add a generous dash of red pepper, juice of half a lemon, six 
stoned and thinly sliced olives, and half a teaspoon of onion 
juice. Let the sauce boil up for one minute, then serve 
hot. This is very good over any boiled or broiled fish. 

Anchovy Sauce 

Bone four anchovies and make a smooth paste of them 
with one ounce of butter. Melt butter enough to make a 



Stuffings, Sauces, and Gravies 239 

half pint, stir in the paste and cayenne pepper to taste, 
simmer for three or four minutes, and add the juice of half a 
lemon. Serve hot with any sort of fish. 

Asparagus Sauce 

Take one bunch of fresh asparagus, cut off the green 
tips and boil them in fair water until they are done but 
not broken, drain, and set aside to cool. Wash the remains 
of the bunch and cut the stalks into inch pieces; boil until 
they are very tender in a pint of water. When done put 
through a pur^e sieve, add a cup of hot milk, then thicken 
slightly with a little butter and flour rubbed to a cream, 
add a saltspoon of salt, a half a saltspoon of pepper, and the 
asparagus tips. This is excellent over any boiled or baked 
fish. 

Bombay Sauce 

This sauce is served with carefully drained boiled codfish 
or salmon. It is a rich drawn butter, highly seasoned, 
and just before serving a tablespoon of madeira wine is 
added in which a clove and a piece of ginger root have been 
marinating at least one hour. The fish may be hot or cold, 
but the edges must not be allowed to dry. Garnish with 
slices of lemon through which sprays of parsley have been 
drawn. 

Champagne Sauce 

One cup of champagne, two cloves, one bay leaf, one 
teaspoon of sugar, and four pepper corns. Let infuse for 
five minutes, then add a cup of English brown sauce and 
simmer ten minutes. Strain into a hot tureen or over 
broiled blue fish. 

Caper Sauce 

Cut three dessertspoons of capers in half, wash carefully, 
and add them to a half pint of melted butter; saltspoon of 



240 Stuffings, Sauces, and Gravies 

salt and a half saltspoon of pepper; add a teaspoon of 
anchovy sauce, simmer one minute and keep stirring, and 
it is ready to serve. 

Celery Sauce 

Wash and cut into one-inch pieces a large bunch of celery, 
boil it in salted water until it is tender; put one pint of 
white stock into a stewpan with a bunch of savory herbs 
and a blade of mace and let all simmer for a half hour; then 
strain off the liquor, add the celery to it, and thicken with 
butter and flour rubbed to a cream. Just before serving 
add half a pint of cream and the juice of half a lemon; boil 
up once, add a half saltspoon of pepper and a saltspoon of 
salt, and serve. 

Cheese Sauce for Boiled Cod 

Mix two tablespoons of butter with two tablespoons of 
flour to a smooth paste, add two cups of cold water, and 
cook until thick and smooth; then add a half cup of grated 
cheese, saltspoon of pepper and a half teaspoon of salt, 
and one hard-boiled egg cut in small pieces. Serve in a hot 
tureen with boiled codfish. 

Crab Sauce 

Take two large fresh boiled crabs and remove all the 
meat, shredding it with a silver fork. Take a half pint of 
melted butter and a gill of cream, a well beaten egg, pepper 
and salt to taste. Let simmer, and when slightly thickened 
add the crab meat and a teaspoon of finely chopped pars- 
ley. Serve in gravy-boat. 

Cucumber Sauce 

Pare and quarter four cucumbers, remove the seeds, 
cut in inch pieces, put in a linen cloth, and squeeze the water 
out. Put two tablespoons of butter in a saucepan, add 



StufiGin^s, Sauces, and Gravies 241 

the cucumber pieces, and shake over a brisk fire until they 
are a good color. Then add six tablespoons of brown 
gravy, a quarter saltspoon of pepper, and a saltspoon of 
salt. Simmer gently for ten minutes and serve. This is 
an excellent fish sauce. 

Dutch Sauce 

Take two tablespoons of water, two of vinegar (tarra- 
gon), juice of half a lemon, two ounces of butter, a half 
teaspoon of flour, and the yolks of two eggs. Put all in- 
gredients> but lemon juice into a stewpan, let come to 
boiling point but not boil, and when thick enough remove 
from the fire. Strain, add the lemon juice, and serve in 
sauce-boat. 

Egg Sauce 

Boil fotir eggs hard, and when cold chop them fine. Melt 
smoothly a half pint of butter, add a saltspoon of red pepper 
and a teaspoon of lemon juice. Serve the mixture hot for 
salt fish. 

Fennel Sauce 

To a cup of carefully melted butter add one tablespoon 
of washed and finely chopped fennel seed; let simmer 
for two minutes. Serve with broiled mackerel, shad, or 
bluefish. 

Gooseberry Sauce for Mackerel 

Boil one pint of green gooseberries in water until tender, 
thenstrainthroughasieve. Put into a saucepan two ounces 
of butter and three tablespoons of rich stock; saltspoon of 
salt, half saltspoon of pepper and a half saltspoon of nut- 
meg; add the pulp of gooseberry and a little sugar and 
simmer gently together a few minutes and serve hot. 
Id 



242 Stuffings, Sauces, and Gravies 

Hessian Sauce 

Beat until thoroughly mixed four tablespoons of 
freshly grated horseradish, a tablespoon of very finely 
grotmd bread crumbs, saltspoon each of salt and pepper, 
and a gill of sour cream. Then add a teaspoon of lemon 
juice or tarragon vinegar, and serve with flaked cold boiled 
salmon or codfish. 

Mdtre d'Hdtel Butter 

Work together a quarter of a pound of butter, a table- 
spoon of minced parsley, a saltspoon of salt, and a quarter 
saltspoon of pepper. Blend thoroughly, adding the juice 
of one large lemon. Melt over the teakettle. Serve 
over broiled fish. 

Matelote Sauce for Salmon 

Peel fifteen small onions and put them with a half tea- 
spoon of sugar Into a two-pint saucepan. Add a quarter 
of a pound of butter and shake about until the onions are 
browning, then add a wineglass of sherry and a dessert- 
spoon of flour; stir gently, let it boil; then add a half a 
pint of water and a gill of good stock. Simmer until the 
onions are soft, season with salt, pepper, and a level tea- 
spoon of sugar, strain well and serve with boiled salmon. 

Mustard Sauce for Fresh Herring 

Mix one teaspoon of mustard, one dessertspoon of 
flour with three ounces of butter; stir in one gill of boiling 
water and a teaspoon of vinegar; boil five minutes and 
serve. 

Pineapple Sauce 

Make a good English brown sauce and when cooked 
strain and add one fresh pineapple, diced, let boil up once, 



Stuffings, Sauces, and Gravies 243 

then serve over boiled codfish that has had skin and bones 
removed and then been slightly flaked with a silver fork. 

Sardine Sauce 

Bone half a dozen large sardines, make an ordinary sauce 
of butter and stock, and in this boil the bones and skin with 
a minced onion, lemon peel, a bay leaf, a saltspoon each of 
pepper and salt, and a dash of nutmeg. Boil a half hour 
until well blended, then strain and add the sardine meat cut 
fine, and serve with boiled haddock. 

Sauce 3. la Alexandre Dumas 

This calls for a teaspoon of finely minced chives and the 
same amount of parsley, the juice of one onion, a table- 
spoon of olive oU, three drops of tobasco, half teaspoon 
Worcestershire sauce, a saltspoon of salt, a half saltspoon of 
pepper, teaspoon of tarragon vinegar, and a teaspoon of 
lemon juice. Mix thoroughly, and serve with raw oysters 
as a cocktail. 

SAUCES TO BE SERVED WITH MEAT, GAME, AND 
POULTRY 

Brown Onion Sauce 

Slice and fry six large onions in a stewpan with two 
ounces of butter; stir them constantly until they are tender 
and beginning to brown, then pour over them a half pint 
of rich stock, add a saltspoon of pepper, a half teaspoon of 
salt, a tablespoon of Worcestershire sauce, and a tablespoon 
of chutney syrup. Let all simmer gently until the onions 
are very tender, skim off any fat that rises to the surface, 
then strain all through a pur^e sieve, put it back into the 
saucepan to warm, and when it boils up it is ready for use. 



244 Stuffings, Sauces, and Gravies 

Brown Mushroom Sauce 

' Put one half pint of good beef gravy into a saucepan^ 
thicken slightly with butter and flour rubbed to a cream, 
add a saltspoon each of pepper and salt and a half pint of 
button mushrooms. Let all boil up and add a tablespoon 
of mushroom ketchup and the juice of an onion. This is 
an excellent sauce or gravy to serve with any roast meat. 

Carrot Sauce 

Take one large carrot, wash, scrape, and grate it; put a 
lump of butter the size of a walnut into a saucepan and 
when melted add the carrot, then a cup of good gravy or 
stock, a half teaspoon of salt, a saltspoon of pepper, a 
little finely chopped parsley, and a spoonful of lemon juice. 
Let it all stew until it is quite smooth and serve turned over 
the steak or, if preferred, in a sauce tureen. 

Chive Sauce 

Make a rich brown gravy of a cup of stock and a cup of 
milk, thickened with browned flour and butter worked to a 
paste. Add to the gravy three tablespoons of chopped 
chives, and rub the platter with a bud of garlic before plac- 
ing the breaded cutlet on it. Pour the gravy over the 
meat and serve hot. 

Cranberry Sauce to Serve with Turkey 

To one quart of cranberries add one pint of water; stew 
until tender, strain, and add to the juice a cup of sugar. 
Stew the juice down for ten minutes, turn into small molds, 
and serve when jelled. 

Cream Giblet Sauce 

Boil chicken giblets until tender, then chop fine and pour 
over them a tablespoon of good sherry. Make a rich cream 



Stuffings, Sauces, and Gravies 245 

sauce; when ready add the giblets and pour over hard-boiled 
eggs, sliced but not cut through, with crisp little pieces 
of bacon separating the slices. Garnish with olives and 
pimentos. 

French Onion Sauce, or Soubise 

Peel six onions, cut them into quarters, and put them 
in a stewpan with sufficient water to cover them. Add to 
them a bay leaf, a quarter saltspoon of pounded mace, the 
same amount of cayenne pepper, a quarter pound of minced 
ham, and boil until the onions are tender. Lift them 
when done and put them through a purie sieve. Have 
ready a half pint of hot bechamel sauce, put the pureed 
onions to it, and stir over the fire until it just boils up, then 
serve. 

Horseradish Sauce 

Take four tablespoons of grated horseradish, one teaspoon 
of sugar, one teaspoon of salt, a half teaspoon of pepper, 
two teaspoons of made mustard, and sufficient vinegar to 
moisten the ingredients. Just before serving, add three 
tablespoons of heavy cream. If one wishes the sauce hot, 
just set the dish it is in Into a pan of hot water until the 
sauce is hot, but do not allow it to curdle. 

Mint Sauce 

To one cup of hot vinegar add four dessertspoons of 
chopped mint leaves and two dessertspoons of sugar. 
This sauce should be made two hours before using, keep- 
ing it warm one hour to extract all flavoring from the 
mint, then cooling. 

Marron Sauce for Fowls 

Take a half pint jar of the cooking marrons, drain and 
put them into a half pint of white stock, two strips of 



246 Stuffings, Sauces, and Gravies 

lemon peel, pepper, salt to taste, three drops of tobasco, 
a teaspoon of Worcestershire sauce, a tablespoon of 
chopped celery, a tablespoon of onion juice, and a half 
cup of the liquor the chestnuts were put up in; let simmer 
until the nuts are very tender, then rub them through a fine 
sieve, add a quarter pint of hot cream, and if the sauce 
is a little too thick, thin with a little hot milk. Serve very 
hot in a small gravy-boat. 

Olive Sauce 

Carefully stone a cup of olives, blanch them in boiling 
water, and throw them in cold water for five minutes. Take 
one half pint of red stock and heat ; when it is hot add the 
olives and let them stew for half an hour. If necessary, 
thicken slightly with a little butter and flour rubbed to a 
cream, but do not have the sauce heavy. Add a teaspoon 
of lemon juice just before pouring it over the broiled steak. 

Orange Gravy 

Slice one small onion into a saucepan with a half pint 
of white stock, the juice of an orange, four strips of lemon 
peel, three leaves of sweet basil, and let the mixture simmer 
gently for fifteen minutes. Then add a glass of port wine, 
a saltspoon of salt, and a half saltspoon of pepper, and 
when it comes to boiling point serve very hot in a covered 
tureen. 

Parsley and Butter Sauce 

Take a good-sized bunch of parsley, wash carefully, and 
throw it into boiling salt water, let it boil five minutes, 
drain it, mince the leaves very fine, add the juice of an 
onion, a half saltspoon of red pepper, and pour over it in 
the tureen a half pint of smoothly made melted butter. 



Stu£Gin^s, Savjces, and Gravies 247 

Sauce for Chops 

Mix with one cup of vinegar a teaspoon of grated horse- 
radish, one tomato, two Spanish peppers, two green peppers 
chopped, and cook for fifteen minutes. Strain through a 
sieve and serve with boiled meats or chops. 

Sauce Coquette > 

Melt together one jar of good currant jelly with a"glase 
of port wine. Heat but do not allow it to boil. Serve 
in a hot tureen with roast duck or guinea fowls, or with 
saddle of venison. 

Sauce Piquante 

To one can of tomatoes add one onion, one bay leaf, a 
clove, a stalk of celery, carrot cut fine, a spray of parsley, 
a teaspoon of kitchen bouquet, a saltspopn of salt, a 
half saltspoon of pepper, and a half cupful of good tomato 
ketchup. Boil gently twenty minutes; if it boils .away too 
rapidly add a little water. Strain and thicken with a 
blended butter and flour thickening, to the consistence of 
honey. Add some sliced olives and serve. 

Sauce Robert 

Put two ounces of butter into a stewpan and throw 
into it three onions cut very fine; fry them a delicate brown, 
add one teaspoon of flour, and shake the onions well with it, 
then add a half cup of heavy stock, season with a teaspoon 
of mustard sauce, a teaspoon of tarragon vinegar, and the 
juice of half a lemon. When thoroughly mixed and heated 
pour over the broiled steak that is waiting on a hot platter. 

Sweet and Sour Sauce for Steak 

Brown a half cup of sugar with one tablespoon of flour, ' 
in a frying pan; add a half cup of stock, three quarters of a 



248 Stuffings, Sauces, and Gravies 

cup of vinegar, a saltspoon of pepper, a half teaspoon of 
salt, and a teaspoon of Worcestershire sauce, and cook until 
very smooth, stirring constantly so that it does not catch 
or bum. 

White Mushroom Sauce 

Make a good cream sauce, not too thick. Prepare the 
fresh mushrooms in the usual way, saut6 them in butter for 
five or six minutes, then drain and put them into the sauce. 
The smaller sized mushrooms are best for this purpose, 
but if larger ones are used cut the flaps into four pieces. 
This sauce is excellent to serve with broiled veal cutlets. 

Wahiut Gravy 

This may be used successfully with sweetbreads par- 
boiled and diced, or with breast of chicken, either cooked 
and boned at home or imported in glass from England. 
Chop or grind four tablespoons of English walnuts and 
put them in a pan with a large tablespoon of butter. Fry 
until the walnuts brown, stirring constantly to keep them 
from burning. Pour on one pint of very rich stock and let 
simmer half an hour. Just before serving thicken with one 
tablespoon of flour, blended with a little butter, and add a 
few drops of onion juice, a few drops of kitchen bouquet, 
and a teaspoon of Mandalay sauce or chutney. Lay in the 
sweetbread or breast of chicken just a minute or two to 
heat, then serve garnished with olive rings or curls and 
parsley. 

Hot Spice 

This is excellent to add to sauces and gravies. Take 
two saltspoons each of ground ginger, black pepper, cinna- 
mon, seven cloves, a quarter teaspoon of mace, a saltspoon 
of cayenne pepper, one half teaspoon of grated nutmeg, and 
one and a half saltspoons of white pepper. Pound the 



Stuffings, Savices, and Gravies 249 

ingredients and mix them thoroughly together, and when 
blended put them into a wide-mouthed, clean, dry bottle 
and cork it tightly. 

The various meat and game essences used in high-class 
cookery are also a great aid in sauce seasoning, and truffles, 
mushrooms, and nuts in powdered form are always a rich 
addition, as are the so-called sweet herbs and spices. 



FOOD GARNISHES AND THEIR MAKING 

The art of garnishing food dishes attractively has been 
brought to its present high state of perfection chiefly by 
the French chefs, though each nation has some special 
ways of accomplishing the same end by the use of things 
native to their surroundings. The modem table, however, 
combines all of the ideas developed for this purpose. When 
not procurable in one's own country, bottled, canned, dried, 
boxed, preserved, or candied dainties which are famous in 
their own localites are used and though the foods are not 
quite in their original state, yet they make very effective 
substitutes, and to those who have not met them before 
they are quite as good. 

The old-fashioned idea of garnishing merely for the pleas- 
ure of the appearance has gradually been done away with,, 
so that now the only up-to-date garnish which is permissible 
is the edible one. Nearly all dishes require some sort of 
garnish suitable to them, and a variety of ideas will come to 
the cook with practice and a little experimenting; there is 
very little written on this subject to guide her, but frequent 
visits to public dining places will give her hints that she 
may adopt and improve upon according to her interest in 
the subject and the materials she has at hand to work with. 

To the cook who makes a specialty of garnishing, the 
supply of tools is quite formidable. It includes knives for 
all sorts of plain and fancy cutting, not only for the cutting 
of vegetables, but of meats, dough, fruits, and eggs; tiny, 
fancy cutters of all kinds for vegetables; wheel cutters to 
strip vegetables and meats, egg slicers, fruit corers and 
parers, olive pitters, potato curlers, hashinettes for min ting 

250 



Food GarnisKes and tKeir MaKing 251 

garnishes, pastry bags, and all sorts of tubes through which 
mashed potato and other vegetables, the yolks of hard- 
boiled eggs, and whipped cream may be squeezed and 
thus prettily garnish planked dishes; various grapefruit 
and orange cutters, kitchen scissors, and so on through a 
seemingly interminable list. 

Perhaps the simplest way of giving directions about 
the proper garnishes for different dishes is to take the dinner 
courses one by one. First one must remind the garnish 
maker that everything for this use must be of the freshest, 
must be carefully washed, cooled or cooked just right, and 
prepared with appropriate tools. 

Canapes of different sorts, served oftentimes before the 
soup, are pretty garnished with finely chopped red pepper, 
cold-boiled egg put through a ricer, thinly sliced truffles 
cut in fancy shapes, or olive curls. These last are made by 
paring the olive round and round like an apple until free 
from the stone, then spreading the inside with a little 
sardine or anchovy paste and laying them over the top of the 
canap^. Shrimps split and dipped in fancy sauces; button 
mushrooms which have been sauted in butter and drained; 
rings of cucumber that have been hollowed out, stuffed 
with pS,t6 de foie gras, and cut in slices; pepper or cold 
boiled egg-white rings, sprays of cress, parsley, tarragon,i 
and chervil leaves; all these are good to use with the vari- 
ous sauces which go with the canapes. 

The various broths are simply, garnished with a spoonful 
of whipped cream, a spray of parsley or toasted croutons. 
The soups have the different macaroni preparations to 
vary the clear ones with, besides dumplings, noodles, toast 
squares, egg rings, diced meat, and vegetables. Spinach 
balls are made of boiled spinach chopped, drained, and 
seasoned, then mixed with a few fried bread crumbs and the 
beaten white of an egg; they are then rolled into shape, 
placed in the tureen, and the clear soup poured over them. 

For broiled fish, sprays of parsley drawn through slices of 
lemon cut thin and stuffed baked peppers or tomatoes in 



252 Food GarnisKes and tKeir MaKin^ 

turnip croquettes, French peas in beet baskets, shrimps 
rolled in lemon juice and then in minced tarragon leaves, or 
sprays of fried parsley. Boiled fish depends on the sauce 
used with it for part of its garnish. Aside from this, 
lemon quarters and parsley are generally used. For baked 
fish one may use cold boiled eggs cut in fancy ways, carrots 
cut in odd shapes, after being boiled tender and cooled, 
green tomatoes sliced and fried, oysters rolled in thin slices 
of bacon and fried, or chopped mushrooms which have been 
sauted in butter, drained, and arr&nged in a half hard- 
boiled egg-white cut lengthwise. For cold fish sprays of 
parsley, tarragon, chervil, or cress are used with lemon 
sliced or quartered, and sometimes dipped in minced parsley. 

Cold meats are garnished in much the same way as cold 
fish, with the addition of radish roses, lettuce leaves filled 
'with potato or egg salads, cucumber fingers, cold deviled 
vegetables, pineapple sticks, red peppers filled with mac^- 
doine salad, artichoke hearts in vinaigrette, French sausage 
pasties, Spanish peppers, violet mustard, mustard and 
fine herbs, or pickled corn. 

Hot meats have all sorts of croquettes as edible garnish. 
There are tiny vegetable soufH6s; rolled pancakes filled 
with savory filling, then tied with a spray of willow grass; 
grilled vegetables and macaroni and cheese in ramekins; 
large steamed artichoke hearts with minced curried ham 
heaped on them, or the hearts split and stuffed with savory 
minced calf's liver; potato puffs, molded jellies, and vege- 
table aspic jelly. Various gravies and sauces also add to the 
garnish effects. 

Sweet garnishes are really in another class; still they may 
be touched upon here. Angelica and citron, pineapple 
sticks, preserved and candied fruits, powdered macaroons, 
stuffed raisins, prunes, and dates, halved or powdered 
nuts, glacdd fruits, kisses, marrons, fruit compotes and 
sauces, fancy jellies, and fruit aspic are a few of the better 
known garnishes which may be used according to the taste 
of the cook. 



Food GarnisKes and tHeir Making 253 

Ice creams frozen in fancy shapes require no extra gar- 
nishes, nor do the creams that are served with fancy sauces 
or in melons, unless one desires to use cherries or cubes of 
fresh fruit. 

Candied rose leaves or mint leaves are pretty scattered 
over fruit salads, and nasturtium blossoms and leaves 
are pretty with beet leaves for garnishing cold meat or 
fish entries. Omelets are generally garnished with some- 
thing that indicates their filling. Sweet ones may have 
whipped cream roses with cherry or nut centers ; Spanish 
omelet takes chopped red peppers or green pepper strips, 
ham omelet has egg and olive rings, meat omelets have thinly 
sliced truffles, and those filled with fine herbs take fried 
parsley and lemon thinly sliced. 

A few large seeded raisins added to a brown sauce with a 
little heap of chopped red pepper improve its appearance. 
A dusting of savory herbs and mignonette pepper through 
a fancy tube improves both the appearance and the flavor 
of a white sauce. Pastry finger^ sprinkled with grated 
cheese and cayenne pepper before baking are good with 
salad and should be piled log cabin fashion on a doily. 
Bread sippets are always a useful garnish; after being shaped 
they may be either toasted or fried in butter. 



RARE TRIFLES FOR THE TABLE 

There are many imported delicacies shown in the choicer 
food shops which afford an occasional variation for the 
daily fare, and at the same time give interesting glimpses of 
the countries from which they come. 

Small sweet potatoes from Mexico are sent to France, 
where they are prepared in a thin sweetened syrup, with a 
strip of vanilla bean. Placed in a wide-mouthed bottle, 
they are sealed and sent back to America to be used as a 
salad or a relish to be eaten with cold meat. They taste a 
bit like French chestnuts. 

Orange marmalade from Egypt shows the fruit cut in 
small quarters in a heavy jelly. It is prepared so that 
it is quite as tender as when done in the old way and has a 
flavor peculiarly its own. 

"Heart of Palm" comes in tall, slender glass bottles for 
the making of the dainties of salads. It also comes in 
cans ready for a pur6e, and in small bottles, spiced and 
seasoned, ready to use as a relish. It looks like stalks of 
giant asparagus, and is the color and texture of the pine- 
apple. 

Huckleberries from the Alps have less acid and are sweeter 
than those Americans are acquainted with and they are 
delightful to serve with fresh cream cheese. Wild straw- 
berries from France, fresh preserved prunes, pared white 
grapes, and mixed fruits in strange syrups, are some of the 
things good to serve with ice cream. 

Japanese kumquats and fresh figs stand on the preserve 
shelf beside bottles of tiny fresh limes and real roses in 
syrup. Mac^doine of vegetables for salads and soups, 

254 



Rare Trifles for tHe Table 255 

large French asparagus, artichokes, tiny turnips with olives, 
and carrots with olives are other bottled novelties. 

Sardines and other small fishes, put up with trufSes, 
pickles, or pimentos, in sauces or in oils, offer wide choice. 
Odd relishes include pickled seaweed, spiced nasturtium 
buds, tiny ears of corn from France, so tender that they are 
eaten cob and all, and many varieties of the olive family 
variously stuffed. 

In company with the usual French and German mustard 
pots, there are those containing mustard combined with 
fine herbs which color it a beautiful green, mustard with 
horseradish, and a lilac-colored mustard, "Violette de 
Brive," all of which are aristocrats in the land of condiments. 

Russia Contributes caviar and several oddly prepared 
fish. English and Irish bacon, Virginia hams, Italian sau- 
sages and bolognas also engage the attention of the buyer 

Fresh cream cheese made to order and molded into heart- 
shaped baskets is not to be used as an adjunct to the salad 
course, but is eaten as a dessert with a favorite jelly or jam. 
Not to be overlooked among the cheeses of all nations is the 
Blue Stilton of England, a luxury in the cheese market. 

There are wonderful p^t6s that are to be eaten cold. 
When served, they have their pastry covers lifted and the 
guest removes a portion with a hot spoon. 

Among the fresh daily offerings is the orchid salad with 
its delicate red-shaded coloring and dainty flavor. It has 
to be pulled fresh daily, for it does not keep like its ple- 
beian green cousins, but promptly shrivels and decays if 
allowed to stand overnight. This dainty was once the 
exclusive salad used on the tables of Italian royalty. To 
raise it in the United States a specially prepared soil has 
been imported and experimented with. 

"Heart of palm relish" is new. It is made of the 
heart of palm cut fine and seasoned all ready to turn out 
of the bottle onto the toast, in squares or rounds, as pre- 
ferred. With a little red pepper strip garnish it is ready to 
serve. 



256 Rare Trifles for tKe Table 

Japanese mushroom hors d'ceuvre is new and delicious. 
It comes in little bottles that hold enough for four persons 
if it is served as it is and for six if anything is added to it. 
The mushrooms are gray on the outside and white at the 
heart, so they are decorative as well as good. Blanched 
almonds and tiny green melons are among the ingredients 
it contains. This may be served on toast rounds lightly 
spread with anchovy paste or pit6 de foie gras, and gar- 
nished with egg rings and olive curls. 

The possibilities of the Madagascar artichoke hearts 
are many. For a relish one may scoop out the center with 
a teaspoon and fill it with sardines flaked and mixed with a 
little chopped red pepper, half a teaspoon of lemon juice, 
and a few drops of onion juice. Six artichokes are in each 
can. 

A new cheese has appeared that can be used for the salad 
course or as a dessert itself. It is made fresh daily and is 
called "Petits Gervais." The cheese comes in a little roll 
and belongs to the cream cheese family but has a flavor 
and texture peculiar to itself. For the salad course it is 
served with crackers in the usual way. When used for 
dessert it is sliced, and preserved wild strawberries are 
served with it, or any other rich preserve, jelly, or jam. 

Macaroni, colored green by spinach and red by tomato, 
is used the same as the white, but it makes very decorative 
additions to the vegetable course to use the green, plain 
boiled, around panned spinach with a good drawn butter 
sauce; and the red boiled and arranged around stufEed 
and baked tomatoes with a highly seasoned smooth tomato 
sauce over all. 

Imported game p3,t^s which come tinned may be made 
into most acceptable entries by heating and adding to 
them a suitable sauce. The imported mousse and the 
pur^e of game, flsh, and vegetables are especially good for 
sandwich use and are excellent by way of adding variety 
to those better known. 

French sausages come in a can and are quite different 



Rare Trifles for tHe Table 257 

from our own American product. They must be cut and 
mashed fine and flavored with a teaspoon of the green 
mustard which contains fine herbs, a saltspoon of pepper, 
a saltspoon of salt, and a few drops of onion juice. Spread 
them on the toast rounds and garnish the canapes with a 
little chopped red pepper and an olive. 

New relishes include the " Churisette, " made of hop 
sprouts, nasturtium buds, cherries, and fresh mushrooms. 
They are drained and served on pieces of round toast. 
" Otero " is made of pimentoes, tiny French melons, truffles, 
and mushrooms, while "Shimsji" has the nuts, melons, 
and several other savory ingredients. 

Herring roes or filets in oil are nice, drained then mari- 
nated in French dressing, to use for salad with red pepper 
and celery. 

Tomato Baskets 

Select small, high tomatoes. Cut the pulp away on 
each side at right angles, leaving a handle for the basket 
made of the base of the tomato, the basket standing on its 
stem end. Use for holding individual portions of tartare 
sauce to serve with fish. Arrange around the platter and 
serve one with each portion. 

Aspic Jelly 

Put one and a half ounces of powdered gelatine into a 
saucepan with three and a half cups of. good red stock, two 
bay leaves, four cloves, a small bunch of parsley, a small 
turnip diced, and a diced carrot, a blade of mace and a 
small broken stick of cinnamon, six sweet peppers, the 
juice and the rind of one lemon, one sliced onion, and a 
teaspoon of salt. Let all boil gently for forty minutes, 
skimming carefully as it boils. When done have a jelly bag 
squeezed out of hot water and turn the jelly into it; allow 
the jelly to drain over a wet mold. Do not squeeze the 
17 



258 Rare Trifles for the Table 

bag as to do so clouds the jelly. Just before taking the 
jelly from the fire the whites and shells of two eggs should 
be added and stirred in thoroughly. The eggs clarify 
the jelly. A white stock used in place of the red stock 
will make the jelly a light color, while a cup of tomato 
juice will deepen the color when the red stock is used. 

Aspic Jelly for Decoration 

The aspic jelly may be poured into a wet dish about a 
quarter of an inch deep, and when it sets it may be cut 
with little pastry cutters into stars, half moons, blocks, 
diamonds, roses, or anyodd form for use as an edible garnish, 
or it may be turned into a wet dish, and just before it sets it 
may be covered with rows of cooked macaroni cut into 
rings, fancy-shaped vegetables, or chopped shrimp; if the 
macaroni is used place in the center of each ring a dot of 
chopped nut or pickle. When this is a little firm, pour over 
another layer, dusting the top with a little finely chopped 
parsley and paprika. When set and chilled cut in fancy 
shapes with cutters and use for the garnishing of fish or 
salads. Another way, before the jelly is set, to decorate the 
top is to put two cold boiled eggs through the ricer, dis- 
tributing it evenly over the surface. This surface may 
then be dotted with chopped beet or olives, or with little 
sprigs of parsley. 

Spinach Coloring 

This natural coloring is very easily made and is very 
good for the purpose. Pick and wash two handfuls of 
spinach, pound the leaves in a mortar to extract the juice; 
then press through a sieve and put the juice into a tiny 
stewpan or double boiler. Let it come to almost boiling 
point, but do not let it boil. As soon as it is done place it 
in a sieve, so that all the water may drain from it; then 
the green will be ready for coloring. 



Rare Trifles for the Table 259 

Stuffed Tomato as a Garnish 

Select the small yellow or red tomatoes, allowing one 
for each portion. Put the tomatoes in boiling water for 
two minutes to remove the skin, remove a portion of the 
pulp, and fill with any appetizing mixture, such as dressed 
crab flakes, caviar, celery, cucumber, or use simply the 
tomato pulp dressed with mayonnaise. 

Spanish Relish for Salad Course 

Porto de Menzanas, a Spanish dish to use with the salad 
course — Cream together a quarter of a pound of Roquefort 
cheese and a third as much fresh butter, add a teaspoon 
of Worcestershire sauce and a dessertspoon of chutney 
syrup and mix all into a smooth paste, adding, if necessary, 
a little sweet cream if the paste is too heavy. Peel, core, 
and slice the round way enough russet apples to allow two 
slices to a portion, spread them with the paste, dust with 
paprika, and serve. These are specially good with the 
alligator pear salad. 

Curry Powder 

One ounce each of ginger, mustard, and pepper, three 
ounces of coriander, one of tumeric, one half an ounce of 
cardamom and one quarter each of Cayenne pepper and 
cummin seed. Pound all well and sift fine, cork tight in a 
bottle, and use one teaspoon to flavor a sauce with. 

Some Salad Garnishes 

Among the prettiest salad garnishes are the young beet 
leaves in the soft reds and greens, combined with nasturtium 
flowers and buds in the different shaded yellows. Line 
the Salad bowl with the leaves, put in the salad and add 
the flowers around the edge against the leaves and put a 
bunch in the center. The beet and carrot roses cut with a 



26o Rare Trifles for the Table 

tiny vegetable cutter make good garnishes with parsley. 
The boiled egg rings and the green pepper rounds are effec- 
tive, especially with fish. Grape leaves are pretty to serve 
small fruits on in a deep saucer. Strips of angelica, citron, 
candied fruits, and fresh flowers are used for the sweet 
garnishes. 

Meat Glaze 

Dissolve a half ounce of powdered gelatine in one cup 
of hot water, add one heaping teaspoon of a good meat 
extract, a saltspoon of salt, and a saltspoon of pepper. 
Cook down until it coats a spoon or for about ten minutes; 
then pour into a jar and keep tightly covered in a cold place. 
When wanted for use place the jar in a larger vessel of hot 
water until it has dissolved; coat the meat lightly with the 
glaze, using a brush. This is especially suitable for cold 
tongue, ham, pressed meats, or game. If desired, a few 
drops of red coloring may be added to the glaze to give it a 
more brilliant appearance. 

To Brown Flour 

Take a cup of wheat flour and spread it evenly on a 
smooth jelly cake tin, set it in a moderate oven, and as it 
dries stir it carefully and watch it until it gets the proper 
shade of dark brown, but do not upon any account allow the 
flour to scorch, as that ruins the flavor. While it is in the 
oven stir it often enough to keep the color even and when 
done turn it into a wide-mouthed jar and cover tightly. 
This will color gravies while thickening them and is much 
richer than the white flour. 

To Dry Sage 

When drying sage for winter use it is well to pick it 
the day after a good rain and after the sun has dried off the 
leaves. Strip the leaves from the stalks, dry them carefully 



Rare Trifles for tKe Table 261 

on sheets of white blotting paper, and when fairly dry place 
in a cooling oven at night to finish them. Then pack away 
in airtight jars, powdering for the flavor only as many as 
are needed at a time. 

Frosted Holly Leaves^ 

Select fresh sprays of holly, pick the leaves from the 
stalks, wipe the leaves clean, then place them on a pan near 
the fire to get thoroughly dry, but do not allow them to 
shrivel. Then dip them into melted butter, sprinkle them 
with coarsely powdered sugar, and then dry them before the 
fire, pack in wax-paper lined box, and store in a dry place. 
These leaves make very pretty winter garnishes. 

Home Stuffed Olives 

Stuffed olives are accounted among the table delicacies 
and are rather expensive to use freely on the at-home menu. 
They are also restricted to four or five fillings, the better 
known of these being pimento, celery, blanched almond, 
anchovy, and a smaller olive; but at home many other fill- 
ings are possible and if one is equipped with an olive- 
pitting machine the olives may be prepared simply and 
easily to receive the various fillings. 

There are three excellent varieties of olives that come in 
bottles and in bulk,- these being the French olives from 
Provence, the Spanish Olives, and the Italian olives from the 
city of Lucca. California olives, too, are very fine and 
may be favorably compared with the best European ones. 

The fresh oUves put up in oil are fast coming into general 
favor for use in salads, sauces, and relishes, and are well 
liked by most people who have tried them; but the olive 
most generally liked is the one put up in the slightly salted 
brine, the largest variety of which is the best to buy for 
at-home stuffing, this usually being the Spanish olive, its 
slightly bitter taste adds a certain distinctive flavor that 
combines well with any sort of stuffing. 



262 Rare Trifles for the Table 

When ready to stuff olives for any special occasion take 
from the bottle, or from the crock if they have been pitr- 
chased in btdk, as many as are needed for the occasion and 
rinse them in cold water. Next pit them with the olive 
pitter and drop them into cold water to firm them while 
preparing the stuf3fing. The most convenient instrument 
for the stuffing of olives is the little silver marrow fork. 
After the olives are stufEed, they should be laid between 
lettuce leaves and kept very cold so that they do not dry 
out. 

To serve with chicken salad, the olives are very good when 
stuffed with sardine paste, well seasoned; with red peppers 
and lemon juice, or with pit^ de fois gras, a few drops of 
onion juice, a saltspoon of naignonette pepper, and a tea- 
spoon of chutney sjrrup. 

To serve with lobster salad the olives may be stuffed 
with a filling made of a little crab meat, to which a little 
chopped red pepper and a chopped gherkin, pepper and 
salt to taste, and enough mayonnaise to make a paste have 
been added; or they may be stuffed with a little cream cheese 
which has had half the amount of Roquefort cheese added 
to it, with enough French dressing to make a smooth paste 
and a few very finely chopped pecan nuts. 

To use stuffed olives with a fruit salad, fill them with a 
paste made of cream cheese and orange marmalade, enough 
sweet cream being used to bring the paste to the proper 
consistency; or cream cheese with chopped pecan nuts 
and honey enough to make a paste will be found excellent. 

For the vegetable salad steam open six clams, chop them 
fine and drain, add to them a little chopped red pepper and 
a teaspoon of fried bread crumbs, also enough mayonnaise 
to bind the mixture into a paste; or the olives may be 
stuffed with dry grated cheese moistened with a little apple 
sauce. 

A novel breakfast dish will be found in olive tarts. The 
tart shells are made of pie crust and are large enough to 
hold four olives each. The olives are stuffed with well- 



Rare Trifles for the Table 263 

seasoned sausage meat, then laid in the shells, dusted with 
pepper, salt, a teaspoon of fine bread crumbs, a teaspoon of 
grated cheese, and a tablespoon of English brown sauce. 
Bake the tarts in a moderate oven until the crust is done 
and then serve them on a hot platter garnished with fresh 
cress and sliced broiled potatoes. 

A good luncheon dish is made of the olives stuffed with 
a little red pepper and minced chicken which has been made 
to a paste by adding a little whipped cream. Now drain 
and halve one can of button mushrooms, fry them a delicate 
brown in butter, have ready a pint of English brown sauce, 
put the olives into it, and let them simmer gently until 
tender. Then add the fried mushrooms, have ready one 
small loaf of baker's bread carefully hollowed out, leaving 
the top to serve as a cover, whole. A bow of ribbon may 
be drawn through this and tied on top to serve as a handle. 
Into this bread shell turn the olive and mushroom mixture, 
put on the cover, and garnish with lemon quarters and 
parsley. 

Another good luncheon dish is made by stuffing the olives 
with a little finely minced cold roast beef, to which a little 
grated onion has been added, with pepper, salt, and a tea- 
spoon of chutney syrup. Stew the olives gently, after 
stuffing them, in a pint of rich red stock. When they are 
done take them out with a skimmer and lay them on a hot 
plate; then slip into the stock a few thin slices of cold roast 
beef ; when these are hot and have boiled up once, take them 
up with a fork and lay them on a hot platter, turn the 
olives over them, slightly thicken the gravy and turn it 
over all. Garnish the dish with toast sippets and parsley, 
and fried sweet potatoes. 

Olives enter into the making of many different cooked, 
as well as uncooked, sauces. If they are to be used for a 
cooked sauce, however, it is a good idea to cook them first 
in fair water until they are tender, which is usually from 
eighteen to twenty-five minutes with the stones in, and 
generally about fifteen when they have been stoned before 



264 Rare Trifles for the Table 

cooking. The olives do not lose their color in boiling m 
fair water if left uncovered and '^ept boiling constantly. 
The water should be changed twice during the boiling to 
remove the salty brine taste. Olives stoned, then boiled 
in this way, may be carefully drained and added to a rich 
cream sauce into which six trufSes have been sliced and 
served as a vegetable with broiled sweetbreads. They will 
be quite a relief from the ever-present green peas. 



VEGETABLES 

To have plenty of fresh, properly cooked vegetables on 
the home table is a piece of economy as well as an adjunct 
to good health not to be lightly considered. 

First, the vegetables must be good, fresh, and up to the 
season's standard. Second, they must be clean, for nothing 
is as bad or inexcusable as insufficiently washed roots or 
green stuff. Those destined to cook in boiling water should 
be put in boiling and not tepid water. Those that are to 
be cooked in cold water need not stay in cold water all day 
on the back of the stove so as to be ready, getting sodden 
and flabby, although thinly sliced potatoes for frying are 
better to stand in cold water for a while to remove the starch 
from them, as they fry better. 

Some vegetables are decidedly medicinal in their quali- 
ties. Take the asparagus, for instance; it always has been 
looked upon as diuretic, containing albumin and some 
salts, also a substance similar to sago. Beans and peas 
are considered quite as nutritious as meat. Endive, 
chicory, and other lettuces are considered the best possible 
solvents of bile. The cucumber and melon famiKes have 
the laxative properties, while the celery is the nervine. 
Carrots and spinach bring the iron to the blood and clear 
the complexion. Horseradish is a great spring stimulant 
to the stomach and forms the basis of a number of tonics, 
tinctures, and sjrrups. The onion contains volatile oil, 
sulphur, albumin, phosphoric acid, and lime; boiled they are 
most apt to agree with the general stomach, though raw 
and fried they are also popular, and baked are very tasty. 

265 



266 Vegetables 

They form the basis of many flavorings and are excellent 
for the liver and the skin. 

A few ideas along the hne of what effect different foods 
have upon the system may help in choosing that which 
particularly suits the family needs. 

The parsnip is quite a nourishing vegetable and a meal 
made from it makes a palatable bread which when toasted 
is good for children and invalids. Next to the cereals 
the potato is the most valuable plant for the production of 
human food. Sea kale raised on the English and Irish 
shores is very light and easily digested and is a stimulant 
with the same properties as East Indian asparagus. The 
tomato used as an esculent is endowed with many properties 
of more or less value to the human system and has grown 
to be a great table staple, in sauces, soups, ketchup, and 
stews, and raw for salads. 

The native corn has the same nutritive qualities that are 
contained in the asparagus and green peas. Truffles, 
mushrooms, and turnips seem to be of doubtful food value 
and the cabbage family comes under the same law, the cauli- 
flower being the most easily digested member of the family. 

Apples purify the blood, feed the brain, help to eliminate 
impurities from the system. They should be ripe when 
eaten, and may be scraped for little children, who are liot 
likely to masticate their food carefully enough. Bananas 
contain considerable phosphorus and are easily digested. 
They are specially good for mental workers. Chestnuts 
contain a large proportion of starch, and when boiled and 
sprinkled with salt are nutritious and easily digested. 
Dates and figs have many of the same properties,' and are 
warming, nourishing, and sustaining, besides having laxative 
properties. 

Tomatoes are good for everyone inclined to a sluggish 
liver, as is endive, the famous bile destroyer. All the old 
superstitions as to their creating cancer and making rheu- 
matic conditions have been exploded. Strawberries contain 
phosphorus and iron, which make them particularly good 



Vegetables 267 

for anaemic persons. Lettuce is purifying to the blood and 
soothing to the system. Celery has much the same effect 
upon the system. Spinach is rich in iron, and carrots 
and beets are most useful in the diet manual. Humanity 
should make a courtesy to the onion family as a whole, 
for each branch is of incalculable value in health insurance. 

It is claimed for the ordinary white or Irish potato that 
next to the cereals it is the most valuable plant for the pro- 
duction of human food. It is in the starch quality that the 
nutritive properties are contained, and there are few with 
whom they do not agree and who do not thrive on the 
liberal use of them as a daily food. 

Early spring asparagus cannot be used too freely by those 
who enjoy its flavor. It is one of nature's natural kid- 
ney physics. 

What substitute our best chefs and home cooks would 
use if suddenly deprived of the aromatic onion, which plays 
such a prominent part in savory dishes, is a problem. The 
onion, leek, garlic, and shalot belong to the same family 
and show many of the same traits, each throwing off an 
acrid and penetrating acid which brings tears to the eyes of 
the most cheerful cook during the operation of paring them. 

The onion is not only used as a vegetable, flavorer, and 
general cooking agent, but medicinally it is highly valued, 
the onion tea being a remedy for gall stones and rheumatic 
troubles. The leek is used almost entirely as the soup and 
stew flavorer; garlic is used most sparingly, as it requires 
only a trifle to strongly flavor anything with which it comes 
in contact. The shalot being the tenderest is used in the 
so-called fancy dishes with the wine and cream sauces, but 
the onion is usable in a dozen or more independent dishes. 

It is well to remember that all green things that grow 
above ground should be cooked in water that must boil as 
they are added. The pot should not be covered or the 
vegetables lose their color. All the root crops may be put 
on in cold water and allowed to boil covered to make them 
tender. 



268 Vegetables 

Cabbage is not nearly as much used as it might be in the 
variation of our table vegetables. Prejudice has much 
to do with its non-appreciation by the family, though it is 
treasured below stairs. Perhaps its plebeian origin, coupled 
with its long association with corned beef, may have some- 
thing to do with the matter. However, it is time to separate 
it from the aforesaid beef and try it in some of the many 
good ways which have restored it, in a number of localities, 
to the home table. 

Of course, there is one fundamental rule governing the 
cooking of all vegetables — that when a vegetable is tender 
enough to be pierced easily by a fork, it is perfectly cooked 
and should be removed from the fire at once. Besides 
this general rule, however, which most women know, there 
are countless little rules which, if observed, will greatly 
enhance the flavor of certain vegetables. 

Beets, parsnips, turnips, corn, peas, and winter squash, 
for instance, must always have sugar in their seasoning — 
about twice as much as the quantity of salt. Squash is 
drier, and of better flavor, when baked or steamed. Onions 
are void of all offense if parboiled for ten minutes with a 
level teaspoonf ul of ginger in the water, then boiled as usual 
in salted water. When they are cooked in this way, there 
is no odor in the house nor on the breath, and no indiges- 
tion is caused. They should be boiled fast, and uncovered. 

All vegetables should be kept dry and cool. Lettuce 
and other things designed for salad use are the only ones 
that require close proximity to the ice, but it is better for 
them not to come in direct contact with it. 

For variety as the winter advances let the housekeeper 
try the dried vegetables. There are a number of them and 
with proper treatment they are quite a refreshing change 
from the canned things. Perhaps the navy beans are the 
oldest and best known acquaintances in the dried line, and 
there is nothing nicer for Sunday morning breakfast than a 
pot of property baked "Boston baked beans." 

To be just right the beans should soak several hours. 



Veg'etables 269 

then be boiled until they are tender, with a pinch of bicar- 
bonate of soda added to the water as they boil. When 
done place them in the deep dish or pot with a piece of 
pickled pork, well scored, in the center, a half cup of 
molasses, pepper, salt, then fill the dish with the liquor 
they were boiled in, cover, and bake for several hours. 
When nearly time to serve, uncover them and let them 
brown. The dried lima beans, after thoroughly soaking 
for several hours, may be boiled until tender, then served 
with a French sauce of melted butter, pepper, salt, a dash 
of sugar, and a tablespoon of vinegar. They also make a 
most excellent salad mixed with chopped nuts and green 
peppers, with a French dressing. 

The haricot and the red kidney beans are good soaked and 
boiled, then used with a cream dressing. Lentils are 
greatly in favor for broths and soup foundations or to add 
to the stock pot to give richness to it. The green or yellow 
split peas are well known and liked for soups and purees. 
The dried mushrooms are very handy for soups and sauces 
as well, and a half pound will do wonders in the hand of the 
experienced cook. Dried red peppers may be soaked in 
olive oil for a while, then be quite in condition to stuff 
and bake or use in salads. 

Fileted Artichokes 

Use the Jerusalem artichokes. Pare and boil them until 
tender in clear water, cut in thick slices, roll in egg and fine 
crumbs, and fry a delicate brown. Serve garnished with 
lemon and parsley sauce. The sauce is made by melting 
one ounce of butter and stirring into it a half ounce of flour. 
When smooth, add a quarter of a pint of milk and stir 
until it boils, add a tablespoon of chopped parsley, dash of 
pepper and salt, and six drops of tarragon vinegar. 

Artichokes 

Take six artichokes, wash carefully, then plunge into a 
half gallon of boiling water containing a soup bunch, a 



270 Veg'etables 

tablespoon of salt, and a teaspoon of pepper. Boil until 
a leaf may be easily pulled out, remove and drain them; 
serve in a napkin with melted butter or a rich white sauce. 

Time for cooking thirty minutes. Sufficient for six 
persons. 

Jerusalem Artichokes k la Tarragon 

Pare and boil fifteen medium-sized Jerusalem artichokes 
thirty minutes. When done put them in a hot covered 
dish and turn over them a sauce made of a half cup of 
melted butter to which add a teaspoon of lemon juice, a 
half saltspoon of red pepper, and a saltspoon of salt. Wash 
and strip the leaves from four stems of tarragon, chop the 
leaves fine, and add them to the sauce. Serve at once gar- 
nished with toast sippets. This should serve six people. 

Escalloped Aguacate (Alligator Pear) 

Pare, seed, and dice two pears and add to them one cup 
of fine cracker dust. Put in a buttered pudding dish, dust 
with a half saltspoon of pepper, a saltspoon of salt, a tea- 
spoon of sugar, and a grating of English cheese. Break two 
eggs into a cup of cream and pour all over the mixtiire. 
Bake a delicate brown in a medium oven. Bake thirty 
minutes. This should be sufiicient for four people. 

Boiled Apples with Cream and Cheese Sauce 

Pare, core, and boil six large tart apples until tender 
when pierced with a straw. Drain and set them on a hot 
dish. Have ready a rich cream sauce, not too thick; add 
to it a tablespoon of sugar and a half cup of grated cheese. 
Pour the sauce over the apples and serve. 

Boiled Asparagus 

Wash and trim a bunch of fresh asparagus; tie- the stalks 
with kitchen tape in as many small bundles as there are 



Vegetables 271 

portions to be served. Plunge them in a deep, round pot 
of boiling water that has a teaspoon of salt in it. The pot 
should be small enough around so that the asparagus stands 
up as it boils. The water should be kept one inch below 
the tops of the tips. In this way the fleshy stalks will boil 
tender, while the steam will cook the tips. When it has 
boiled twenty minutes it may be drained and served with 
butter, cream, or any other sauce liked. 

As boiled asparagus forms the basis for many dishes the 
boiling process, always the same, need not be spoken of 
again. 

Baked Asparagus and Lettuce 

Take four heads of firm lettuce, cut off the stalks and 
carefully remove the white centers, which may be used for 
salad. Have ready two cups of cold boiled asparagus 
tips. Put a portion in each lettuce head, with a saltspoon of 
pepper, a half teaspoon of salt, and a tablespoon of butter, 
and tie the lettuce firmly around the top with kitchen tape. 
Place the heads in a deep baking pan and pour around them 
a cup of well seasoned red stock. Cover for ten minutes, 
until the lettuce is steamed; then remove the cover and ' 
let it cook ten minutes longer. Remove carefully from the 
pan with a long-handled skimmer; let the gravy boil down 
to one half, then add a very little thickening and half a cup 
of whipped cream; stir carefully and serve in a gravy boat 
with the lettuce, removing the kitchen tape just before 
the lettuce goes to the table. 

Asparagus Souffle 

Boil asparagus and rub through a sieve, add three well 
beaten eggs, a saltspoon of pepper, a half teaspoon of salt, 
and a half cup of milk. Beat the mixture thoroughly 
and fill buttered soufH^ dishes with it. Bake ten minutes. 
A little cheese may be grated over the top before baking. 
This is a good entree for summer use, served with tiny hot 



272 Vegetables 

biscuits. Cauliflower may be used in the same way and 
makes an equally palatable dish. 

Asparagus au Gratin 

Boil asparagus tips until tender; drain, and to two bunches 
of tips add half a cup of dried fine bread crumbs, a gill of 
cream, two tablespoons of melted butter, half a saltspoon 
of pepper, a saltspoon of salt, two tablespoons of grated 
sharp English cheese, and last the stiffly beaten white 
of one egg. Mix all together lightly and fill buttered baking 
shells; then bake a delicate brown. Bake fifteen minutes. 

Fried Asparagus 

Wash and boil a bunch of green asparagus until it is 
tender; drain and cool. Dip each stalk in egg and fine 
bread crumbs, fry in hot fat, drain, and serve with broiled 
bluefish. 

Fried Red Bananas 

Peel and cut in half lengthways ripe red bananas; roll 
first in raw egg, then in fine crumbs, dust with pepper and 
salt, and fry a golden brown in deep fat Uke doughnuts. 
Drain and serve with a sauce made of three quarters of a 
cup of strained honey, the juice of three lemons, and a 
teaspoon of spiced syrup. 

Baked Bananas 

Pare enough bananas to allow one to a portion. Put 
them in a buttered pie plate with a generous lump on each, 
dust lightly with pepper and salt, and turn over them a half 
cup of honey and a quarter cup of boiling water. Cover 
and bake in the oven for fifteen minutes; uncover and bake 
until they are a deHcate brown. 

Another way of baking the bananas is to take off a strip of 
the peel lengthways and then lay the bananas in a buttered 



Vegetables 273 

baking pan; pour into the top of each a little melted butter 
that has been seasoned with lemon juice and a teaspoon of 
chutney sjnnip. Let them bake for twenty minutes. When 
done they may be served in the shells, or be very easily 
removed from the skins and a little melted butter turned 
over each portion. 

Lima Beans 

Shell two quarts of Lima beans and boil in fair water 
thirty minutes after they start to boil. Drain when cooked 
and shake over the fire to take away all the moisture, then 
add two tablespoons of butter, a half teaspoon of salt, a 
saltspoon of pepper, the juice of half a lemon, and a tea- 
spoon of sugar. Serve hot. 

Baked Lima Beans 

This dish of summer baked beans is very good and makes 
an added variety in the ways of serving them. Take two 
quarts of freshly shelled Lima beans and boil them in fair 
water until they are tender, then drain them and put them 
into a well-buttered baking dish with a four-inch square of 
pickled pork that is well scored in the center. Put in a 
half-cup of New Orleans molasses, a half-cup of melted 
butter, a saltspoon of pepper, a half teaspoon of salt, a 
tablespoon of finely chopped tarragon leaves, and a half-cup 
of the water that the beans were boiled in; cover and bake 
slowly for forty minutes, then uncover and allow them to 
brown. 

New England Baked Beans 

Take one quart of navy beans, wash and soak overnight; 
in the morning drain off the water, and set them to cook in 
hot water; allow them to boil until one is tender when 
pinched between the fingers. Butter a deep baking dish, 
or bean pot, and fill it with the beans, placing in the center 
18 



274 Vegetables 

a square of well scored pickled pork. Add a teaspoon of 
salt, a saltspoon of pepper, a cup of New Orleans molasses, 
and a cup of the water the beans were boiled in. Put the 
dish in the oven, cover, and let bake for one hour; then 
remove the cover and allow them to cook for an hour and a 
half longer. 

To Boil String Beans 

Wash, string, and cut in pieces one quart of string beans. 
Have ready a pot of boiling water with a Uttle salt in it. 
Put in the beans, adding them slowly so the water does not 
stop boihng; boil for forty-five minutes, then drain and 
season with a tablespoon of butter, a saltspoon of pepper, 
and a half teaspoon of salt. Turn them into the serving 
dish and strew over the top a heaping tablespoon of bread 
crumbs that have been fried in butter and carefully drained. 

String Beans Cuban Style 

String, break, and boil until tender one quart of string 
beans. When done, drain them and add a lump of butter, 
and a little chopped parsley, onion, and sweet pepper. 
Have ready fried some diced bacon or pickled pork, grate 
a little nutmeg over it, and add the juice of a sour orange; 
add this to the beans, pour all into a buttered baking dish, 
dust with paprika and a tablespoon of very fine bread 
crumbs, and bake a delicate brown. Bake fifteen minutes. 

Baked String Beans 

Carefully wash and string a generous quart of beans and 
cut them in small pieces; boil until tender, then drain per- 
fectly. Have ready two large cups of highly seasoned, 
strained, and smooth tomato sauce thickened to the con- 
sistency of strained honey; turn it into the beans, add a cup 
of bread crumbs that have been fried in butter, pour all into 
a well-buttered baking dish, dust a little Parmesan cheese 
over the top, and bake fifteen minutes. 



Vegetables 275 

Mexican Frijoles 

The frijoles are made of black beans that have been soaked 
overnight, then boiled with two tiny red peppers and 
two buds of garlic until the beans are tender enough to 
mash. They are then drained, mashed, seasoned, and 
shaped into small cakes, which are fried in oUve oil. 

To BoU Beets 

To boil new beets after washing and leaving the stems 
three inches long, plunge them into boiling water and boil 
forty-five minutes. Then remove from the fire, plunge them 
into cold water, and skin them quickly with the fingers. 
Serve in a hot dish with a butter sauce. 

Old beets will require three and a half hours steady, 
hard boiling, otherwise they are prepared in the same way. 

Roasted Beets 

Wash young beets, trim, and lay them in a buttered pan 
in the oven; turn often as they cook but do not break the 
skin. When tender, skin, chop, and serve with a dressing 
made of melted butter, a saltspoon of pepper, a half teaspoon 
of salt, a teaspoon of sugar, and a little vinegar, or the juice 
of a lime. 

Escalloped Brussels Sprouts 

Trim and carefully wash a quart of Brussels sprouts, 
then boil them until tender in water to which a saltspoon 
of bicarbonate of soda has been added, boil briskly without 
covering them for thirty minutes. When done drain, then 
add one finely minced red pepper, small cup of fine crumbs, 
half-cup of grated cheese, one gill of melted butter, juice 
of an onion, a tablespoon of chutney syrup, a saltspoon of 
pepper, half teaspoon of salt, and one beaten egg. Fill 
large buttered ramekins with the mixture, and bake a deli- 



276 Vegetables 

cate brown. If desired, pepper shells may be used to hold 
the sprouts instead of the ramekins. 

Plain boiled sprouts are boiled in the same way; and are 
seasoned with butter, pepper, salt, and a few drops of lemon 
juice. 

To Boil a Cabbage 

Cut the heart out with a sharp knife and in its place put 
a red pepper; drop the cabbage into fast boiling water, 
adding a teaspoon of salt and a saltspoon of bicarbonate of 
soda. A medium cabbage should boil two hours. 

A chopped cabbage will boil in thirty minutes, and a 
new or savoy cabbage will boil in three quarters of an 
hour. 

Baked Cabbage 

Remove the heart and chop a cabbage fine. Sprinkle 
with salt, cover with water, and boil twenty-five minutes. 
Drain, put in a flat pan, add a saltspoon of pepper, a half 
teaspoon of salt, a teaspoon of sugar, dot thickly with 
pieces of butter, pour over it a cup of cream, sprinkle with 
bread crumbs and Parmesan cheese, and bake until brown. 

Stufied Cabbage 

Take one head of firm cabbage and, with a sharp knife, 
take out the heart and some of the center. Have ready 
some good force meat made of a little sausage meat, crumbs, 
a minced onion, a half teaspoon of pepper, a saltspoon of 
salt, teaspoon of sugar, half-cup minced ham, and a gill of 
melted butter. Stuff the center of the cabbage and the 
leaves that may be turned back a trifle, then cover the top 
and half of the cabbage with a dough rolled out the same 
as for a roly-poly pudding. Tie closely in a floured cloth 
and boil two hotu-s. "When done, drain carefully and place 



Vegetables 277 

on the serving dish, with the crust underneath. Have ready 
a smooth tomato sauce to serve with the cabbage. 

Hot Cabbage Slaw 

Remove the heart and chop the cabbage. Put a piece of 
butter the size of a hen's egg into a saucepan, add a small 
cup of sugar, a saltspoon of pepper, a half teaspoon of salt, 
and a dessertspoon of dry mustard. Mix all, then add one 
beaten egg and last of all three quarters of a cup of vinegar 
with a quarter cup of water. Melt together, then let come 
to a boil, stirring all the time. When it thickens remove 
from the fire so it will not curdle, and add the cabbage a 
handful at a time, stirring until it is all moistened with 
the sauce. Set it where it is warm, but not directly over the 
fire, until needed. 

Red Cabbage 

Chop coarsely one red cabbage and put it into a large 
saucepan with six tart apples that have been pared, cored^ 
and sliced thinly. Cover with water and add a cup of 
vinegar. Cook until done — about two hours; then drain 
thoroughly. Season with a saltspoon of pepper, a level 
teaspoon of salt, a half-cup of sugar, a tablespoon of butter, 
and two tablespoons of tarragon vinegar. 

Red Cabbage in Claret 

Take a firm red cabbage, puU off the outside leaves and 
take out the heart, then chop fine. Put in a kettle with one 
bottle of table claret and boil gently until tender. Add a 
heaping tablespoon of butter, a saltspoon of pepper, a tea- 
spoon of salt, and sugar to taste — about a tablespoon; 
drain and serve hot. 

Colecannon 

Melt two tablespoons of butter in the saucepan, add a 
half tablespoon of Worcestershire sauce, a saltspoon of 



ejS Vegetables 

pepper, and a half teaspoon of salt ; add one cup of mashed 
potatoes and one cup of finely chopped boiled cabbage. 
Mix all together, press into a greased mold, and bake in a 
hot oven for twenty minutes. Unmold on a hot dish and 
serve plain, or with a smooth tomato sauce. 

To Boil Carrots 

To boil new carrots scrape and plunge them into boiling 
water to which a teaspoon of salt is added and boil them for 
thirty-five minutes. Drain and serve with a butter or 
cream sauce. Old carrots must be boiled one hour. 

Stewed Carrots 

Scrape, wash, and slice into equal slices six large carrots 
and boil as above; drain them well and put in a saucepan 
with a pint of rich stock, a lump of sugar, and when this 
is reduced to a glaze add a tablespoon of fresh butter, a 
half saltspoon of pepper, and a saltspoon of salt. Heat 
until the carrots have absorbed the sauce, and serve. 

To Boa Cauliflower 

Wash and trim a good head of cauliflower, plunge it into 
boiling water, add a teaspoon of salt, and let it boil thirty 
minutes. Remove, drain, and serve with a cream sauce, or 
any sauce liked. In boiling cauliflower use half milk 
and half water. This will give it a finer flavor and keep 
it white. Cooked in plain water, it takes on a grayish 
color. 

Norwegian Cauliflower 

Take one good head of cauliflower and wash it thoroughly ; 
with a sharp knife slice down in medium slices and brush 
over each slice with egg, then dust lightly with flour and 
sprinkle with pepper and salt. Fry the slices a delicate 
brown in hot fat, drain, and arrange them neatly on a hot 



Vegetables 279 

platter. Have ready a rich drawn-butter sauce, not too 
thick, and turn it over the slices, garnish the dish with 
lemon qttarters and parsley. 

Creamed Celery 

Wash and cut into one-inch lengths three stalks of celery; 
plunge them into boiling water and boil for one hour; 
drain, and turn into a cream sauce. 

Celeriac with Tomato Dressing 

Celeriac, which is turnip-coated celery root, may be had 
three or four to the bunch on the vegetable stands. Pare 
and quarter them and boil until tender in slightly salted 
water. Add a finely chopped soup bunch and herbs to a 
large can of tomatoes; boil twenty minutes, strain, add a 
half teaspoon of salt, a saltspoon of pepper, a saltspoon of 
sugar, a tablespoon of Mandalay sauce, a few drops of 
kitchen bouquet, and thicken with butter and flour mixed 
to a paste. Pour over the celeriac and serve hot. 

To Boil Green Com on fhe Cob 

After husking and freeing from all silk plunge the ears 
into boiling water and boil for fifteen minutes. Drain and 
serve. Use no salt to toughen or yellow the com. 

Roast Com 

Boil as much sweet com as is needed, and just before serv- 
ing time put it on the toaster over hot coals and let it roast 
evenly. Butter, pepper, and salt it, and send to table hot 
in a napkin. Serve it as a coiurse by itself so it may be 
fully enjoyed. 

Green Com Croquettes 

Take one quart of the grated green corn, one cupful of 
sifted flour, one cupful of sweet milk, a lump of butter 



28o Vegetables 

the size of an egg, a saltspoonof pepper, and a half teaspoon 
of salt. Put aU in a saucepan and stir hard, adding a 
teaspoon of sugar. Remove from the fire and let it cool, 
then add three-quarters of a cupful of dry bread crumbs 
and mould into croquettes. Dip them in egg and roll them 
in crumbs, then fry in hot lard. Drain, garnish with 
parsley and lemon, and serve. 

Com au Gratin 

Split and scrape a dozen ears and add a half-cupful of 
dry, fine bread crumbs, two tablespoons of grated cheese, 
two beaten eggs, small cupful of cream, a half saltspoon of 
pepper, a saltspoon of salt, a tablespoon of sugar; fill 
buttered ramekins with the mixture, dusting the top of 
each with a little grated cheese and bake. Bake thirty 
minutes. 

Com Fritters 

One-half pint grated corn, half cupful of rich milk, half 
cupful of sifted flour, teaspoon of baking powder, a 
tablespoon of melted butter, a saltspoon of pepper, 
a half teaspoon of salt, a teaspoon of sugar, two beaten 
eggs. Mix the ingredients smoothly and fry in deep, hot 
fat. Drain, serve in a napkin with a little sliced lemon. 

Stuffed Cuctimbers 

Pare, halve lengthways, and remove the seeds from 
enough cucumbers to allow a half one to each portion. 
Plunge them into boiling water and boil for ten minutes or 
longer until they are tender, but do not allow them to get 
too much done; drain, let slightly]cool, then arrange them on 
a buttered baking pan and fill them with this stuffing; 
One cup of bread crumbs, half a cup of chopped chicken, 
half a cup of chopped pecan nuts, one chopped pepper, 
the juice of an onion, tablespoon of chutney syrup, gill of 



"Vegetables 281 

melted butter, teaspoon of Worcestershire sauce, and one 
beaten egg. Dust lightly with a little grated cheese and 
bake a delicate brown. If the oven seems to dry them, 
baste them with a little melted butter to which the juice 
of half a lemon has been added. 

Deviled Cuciunbers 

Pare, quarter, and take the seeds from six cucumbers, 
cut in inch lengths, drop into boiling water with a little 
salt in it, andboil six minutes. Drain and put a layer into a 
buttered baking dish, then a layer of fine crumbs, a sprink- 
ling of salt and pepper, a teaspoon of sugar, and a teaspoon 
of finely ground nut meats; continue until the quantity is 
used up, then pour over all a cupful of tomato sauce (not too 
thick), sprinkle with grated cheese, and bake a delicate 
brown. A little of the sauce may be kept to serve in a 
tureen if desired. The mixture may also be used in rame- 
kins. Bake thirty minutes. 

Cuctunbers k la Poulette 

■' Pare and slice three cucumbers and lay them in salt and 
vinegar for half an hour. Drain them in a cloth and put 
them in two ounces of butter in a stewpan, saute them but 
do not brown them. Dredge over them some flour and add 
a half pint of white stock, a teaspoonful of minced parsley, 
a saltspoon ofsalt.ahalfsaltspoonof pepper, and a teaspoon 
of sugar. Let boil slowly until the gravy is a bit reduced, 
then stir in the yolks of two eggs; let come to boiling point 
and serve. 

Fried Cuctunbers 

' Pare three cucumbers, cut them in lengthway slices, dry 
them, and dip them into yolk of egg, dust with fine cracker 
dust, fry in deep, hot fat; drain and serve in a napkin. 



282 Vegetables 

Dandelion 

Take two quarts of the fresh young dandelion greens, 
wash and boil in salted water; when done, drain, chop fine, 
add the juice of half a lemon, three ounces of butter, and 
a saltspoon of pepper and a half teaspoon of salt. Garnish 
with hard-boiled eggs shced. 

Endive 

Wash carefully six head of endive, remove the green part 
and plunge into boiling water for ten minutes, then drain 
and chop very fine. Then put in a stewpan with a pint 
of good stock, a saltspoon of pepper, a half teaspoon of salt, 
and a tablespoon of sugar, and boil until tender. Add a 
thickening of butter and flour and a tablespoon of lemon 
juice. Let the sauce boil up and serve. 

Panned lEscarole 

Panned escarole will be found daintier than spinach. 
After the white centers have been removed for salad, wash 
thoroughly the green outside leaves, cutting them from the 
stalk and boil them in fair water, adding a pinch of bicar- 
bonate of soda. Boil until tender, drain, chop fine, drain 
again as dry as possible, add a tablespoon of butter, a 
saltspoon of pepper, a half teaspoon of salt, two tablespoons 
of vinegar, and serve, garnished with white egg rings. 

To Fry Eggplant 

Select one firm eggplant, cut it in thick slices, and let 
them soak in salted water for two hours. Drain, dip them 
in beaten eggs and fine bread crumbs, and fry in hot fat 
until a deUcate brown. 

Bombay Eggplant 

Cut an eggplant in halves, lengthways. With a sharp 
knife or an orange spoon remove the pulp, leaving an 



Vegetables 283 

eighth of an inch all around to protect the skin. Chop the 
pulp fine, adding one green pepper, a little celery, and three 
tomatoes, also chopped fine. Add a cup of bread crumbs, 
a saltspoon of pepper, a half teaspoon of salt, a dessertspoon 
of grated cheese, and a tablespoon of chutney syrup. Fill 
the eggplant shells with the mixture, set them in a buttered 
baking pan, turn around them a cupful of vegetable stock 
and bake until tender, about thirty minutes. When done, 
serve with a smooth tomato sauce garnished with potato 
croquettes. 

Eggplant au Gratin 

Cut the eggplant in thick slices, let lie in cold salt water 
until ready for use, boil in clear water until tender, for 
perhaps fifteen minutes, or less, then place in well buttered 
baking pan and on top of each lay a thick slice of tomato, 
sprinkling over them a mixture of fine bread crumbs, a 
sprinkling of salt and pepper, a saltspoon of sugar, a little 
grated cheese, and, putting a lump of butter on the top of 
each, bake in a medium oven. 

Ttirkish Eggplant 

Wash, pare, and chop two eggplants; put a pound of rare 
mutton through the meat chopper, mix this with the egg- 
plant and add a chopped onion with a httle chopped pars- 
ley ; put all in a buttered baking dish and add a gill of butter, 
half a cup of bread crumbs, and turn over it enough rich 
tomato sauce to fill the dish; dust the top with a little grated 
cheese, and bake an hour, or more if need be. 

Greens 

Take young and tender beet greens, wash and boil in 
salted water. When done, drain and chop fine and heat in 
three ounces of butter, a saltspoon of pepper, and a half 
teaspoon of salt and three tablespoons of vinegar, and 
serve hot. 



284 Veg'etables 

Kohlrabi 

Pare, cut in quarters two bunches of kohlrabi, boil in 
salted water until tender, about thirty minutes; drain and 
cover with a rich drawn butter to which a tablespoon of 
fried bread crumbs has been added. 

Leeks 

Wash and cut in small pieces six leeks, boil until tender, 
about thirty minutes, throwing off the water several times, 
drain, add one tablespoon of fried bread crumbs, a table- 
spoon of minced parsley, and cover with melted butter. 
Add a little lemon juice, pepper, and salt. Serve hot. 

Mushrooms 

The cultivated mushroom may be easily distinguished 
from the poisonous fungi by its delicate pink or fiesh-colored 
gills on the under side and by its agreeable nutty odor 
which the toadstools have not. When they are young they 
are button-shaped, the stalk and head being white, and as 
they grow they expand into a flat umbrella shape and get 
pink underneath, slowly turning to dark brown, even 
blackish in appearance. All the poisonous varieties are 
brown, have a rank and putrid odor, and are different in 
flesh texture. 

The edible kind are found during August, September, 
and October in rich pasture land, but are seldom found in 
the woods where the poisonous variety abound. It is 
announced on scientific authority that there are over fifty 
kinds of edible mushrooms, among which there is one 
bright red one. Generally speaking the mushroom is 
difficult of digestion and has but little nourishment in it. 

Locality has great influence on the nature of the juices 
in the mushroom, and it has been discovered that some 
species, while harmless when growing young in pasture 



Veg'etables 285 

and meadow, become quite poisonous when grown in 
contact with stagnant water. 

The silver spoon test is a pretty safe one for the city 
housekeeper to rely on. If the spoon remains bright after 
plunging it into the heart of the mushroom it is all right, 
but if it turns black the fungus is poisonous. All those 
that are marketed in the city nowadays are from most 
reliable sources and inspected under the laws covering the 
sale of pure products regulated by licenses. The canned 
ones are usually dependable, but those in glass are even 
better. The Italian grocers carry the dried mushrooms 
at one dollar a pound, which are most excellent for soups 
and sauces, if properly washed and prepared. There is a 
mushroom powder that is also good in sauces, and a mush- 
room ketchup which is highly favored by our English 
cousins, but is not as well known on this side of the water. 

Fresh Mushrooms Fried in Butter 

Wash carefully one pound of umbrella mushroom flaps, 
removing the stalks, dry them on a cloth, and fry them in 
butter, turning two or three times. Chop the stalks, 
saute them in a little butter which has had added to it a 
teaspoon of lemon juice, a half teaspoon of onion juice, a 
saltspoon of salt, and a half saltspoon of red pepper. When 
the flaps are fried arrange them on slices of toast; add a 
teaspoon of chutney syrup to the saut^, and turn it over 
the mushrooms. 

Mushroom Pates 

Take one large can of button mushrooms and one medium- 
sized can of mushroom flaps; drain and saut^ them in 
butter, adding a half saltspoon of pepper, a saltspoon of 
salt, one chopped Spanish pepper, two finely minced shalots, 
and a teaspoon of chutney syrup. Have ready a pint of 
medium cream sauce; drain and add the mushroom mixture 



286 Vegetables 

to it, using a little of the butter saut6 if it does not thin the 
sauce too much. Turn into hot patty shells and serve. 

Mushrooms k la Bordelaise 

Clean large freshly gathered mushroom flaps, peel them, 
and lightly score on the under side. Place them in an 
earthen dish with a half pint of melted butter, a saltspoon 
of pepper, a saltspoon of salt, and let them remain in this 
for two hours; then drain them and broil on a buttered 
broiler, serving them on hot plates, with a gravy made of 
the melted butter with the juice of an onion, a teaspoon of 
minced parsley, juice of a lemon, and a tablespoon of tomato 
ketchup. Wipe the spoon with which the gravy is stirred 
with a bud of garlic. 

Mushrooms under Glass 

Peel and remove the stems from a half pound of fresh 
mushrooms. Saut6 them slightly in butter, add a half 
saltspoon of pepper and a saltspoon of salt. Toast as many 
slices of bread as are needed, cut in rounds, and place in the 
dishes; cover with the mushrooms and bake them under the 
glass bells for fifteen or twenty minutes; serve hot and 
covered. A little hot cream may be added if desired. 

Mushrooms in Baked Spanish Onions 

Hollow out the centers of as many onions as there are 
portions to be served. Drain one can of button mush- 
rooms, cut or chop in small pieces, add a tablespoon of 
bread crumbs, a tablespoon of finely chopped celery, a 
tablespoon of melted butter, a tablespoon of cream, a table- 
spoon of grated cheese, a teaspoon of chopped parsley. 
Fill the onions with the mixture, dust with pepper and 
salt, put a lump of butter on top of each, and set the onions 
in a buttered baking dish; cover, bake thirty minutes, 
remove the cover, and brown. 



Vegetables 287 

ONIONS 

To Boil Onions 

Pare and boil one quart of Bermuda onions until tender 
when pierced with a fork (about forty minutes), drain, and 
serve with a sauce of a half cup of melted butter, a saltspoon 
of salt, a half saltspoon of pepper, a teaspoon of sugar, and 
six drops of lemon juice. Or the onions after boiling may 
be served in a cream sauce. 

To Fry Onions 

Slice two or three Spanish onions thin. Melt a heaping 
tablespoon of butter in the frying pan, put in the onions, 
dust with pepper and salt, and a dessertspoon of sugar. 
Cover tightly over a medium fire. Shake often until the 
onions are melted down and steamed soft, about ten minutes, 
then take off the cover and stir until they are a golden 
brown. 

Baked Spanish Onions 

Take four Spanish onions and with a sharp knife cut out 
some of their centers; do not pare them, but boil in salted 
water one hour; take them out, dry them, and stuff them 
with a tablespoon of grated cheese, half gill melted butter, 
a saltspoon of pepper, and a half teaspoon of salt. Bake 
in a moderate oven. When done they may be eaten from 
the skin or the outer skin removed and a rich brown gravy 
poured over them. 

Onion Pie 

Peel and boil a quart of onions until tender, drain them 
carefully, break them with a silver fork, and saut^ them in 
butter, letting color slightly. Have ready a deep pie plate 
lined with good crust. When the onions are a bit cool add 



288 Vegetables 

to them a tablespoon of sugar, a saltspoon of pepper, and a 
half teaspoon of salt, a cup of cream, and two eggs beaten in 
a small cup of milk. Turn into the pie plate, add the top 
crust, and bake until the crust is fully done. Serve hot with 
a meat dinner and cut in squares instead of the wedge- 
shaped pieces of dessert pie. 

After peeling onions, rub a stalk of celery over the hands 
and it will remove the odor. If a stam remains, lemon juice 
or tomato skins will take it off. 

Onion Fritters 

Make a good batter as for clam or apple fritters. Grate 
one large onion, season it with a half saltspoon of cayenne 
pepper, a saltspoon of salt, and a quarter of a teaspoon 
of powdered sugar. Add to the batter and fry the fritters 
in hot deep fat a delicate brown and drain in the usual way. 
Serve in a napkin with parsley and lemon thinly sHced for 
garnish. 

Onion Puffs 

Make a good puff paste or light, flaky pie crust, roll thin, 
and cut it into squares. Take as many white onions as there 
are to be guests and boil them in fair water until they com- 
mence to grow tender. Remove, drain, and let cool, then 
carefully cut out the centers, and fill the space with half 
of a country sausage, a teaspoon of butter, one half salt- 
spoon of pepper, the same amount of salt, fold each into a 
pastry square, adding as much tomato dressing as it will 
hold. Bake in a moderate oven. When done serve 
individually with the tomato sauce, to which a grating 
of Parmesan cheese may be added. Garnish with thinly 
sliced green pepper. 

Scalloped Onions 

Boil eight large onions and, when they are tender but 
not too much done, remove and drain them carefully. 



Vegetables 289 

Place them in a well buttered baking dish, put a half gill of 
melted butter, a saltspoon of pepper, and a half teaspoon of 
salt on each, and add a dusting of fine crumbs, Parmesan 
cheese, and a little sugar. Beat two eggs into a pint of milk 
and turn it around the onions. Bake until the custard 
is set and the top is delicately browned. 

To Boil Parsnips 

Wash, trim, and pare as many parsnips as are needed to 
allow one of medium size to each person. Boil in fair 
water until tender. If the parsnips are new, boil thirty-five 
minutes, if old, an hour. When done, drain, slice, and serve 
with a cream sauce; or, when the parsnips are cold dip the 
slices in egg and cracker crumbs and fry a delicate brown. 

Smothered Parsnips 

Fry a slice of salt pork in a kettle, then put in a cup and a 
half each of diced parsnips and potatoes and season with 
a level teaspoon of salt and a saltspoon of pepper. Make a 
rich biscuit dough and lay over the vegetables with a hole in 
the center through which pour one pint of rich stock. Cover 
the pot, let cook for half an hour, and serve. This is a 
most unusual recipe and the dish will be found an agreeable 
change from everyday dishes. 

Parsnip Cones 

Boil three good sized parsnips and mash them very fine. 
Add to this a half cup of grated pineapple, a tablespoon of 
butter, a saltspoon of pepper, a half teaspoon of salt, a 
half saltspoon of grated nutmeg, a teaspoon of sugar, one 
egg, a teaspoon of good sherry, and a tablespoon of cream. 
Add enough cracker dust to form them into little cones, and 
fry in very hot lard. Serve in a napkin garnished with 
watercress. 



290 "Vegetables 

Green Parsley 

Parsley can be made a brilliant green by putting it, after 
it is chopped, into a cloth, then dipping it into cold water 
and wringing it tightly in the fingers. If the garden parsley 
looks as if it were going to seed, pick it after a good rain 
and place it on sheets of heavy paper in a cooling oven to 
dry ; when dry, powder it and put it in wide-mouthed bottles, 
corking it well. It will remain quite green and will do for 
all seasoning purposes as well as the fresh parsley. 

Hopping John 

Boil one cup of cow peas with a piece of bacon. When 
the peas are thoroughly done, but not mushy, drain the 
water ofiE. At the same time boil separately a cup and a 
half of rice. When done mix together. Skim ofiE grease 
from the top of the pot the peas were boiled in. Put over 
the mixture pepper and salt. Put in the oven to dry out 
and serve around fried sausages. 

To Stew or Boil Fresh Peas 

SheU the green peas, wash in cold water, drain, then put 
them into fast boiling water to which add a teaspoon of 
salt and a saltspoon of sugar. Let them boil -briskly un- 
covered. If the peas are young ten to fifteen minutes' 
cooking will be sufficient; if they are large, marrowfat 
peas, cooking will take eighteen to twenty-four minutes, 
if they are old peas, a half an hour. When done drain, 
place in a hot vegetable dish, add a lump of butter the 
size of a walnut, a saltspoon of salt, a half saltspoon of 
pepper, and a teaspoon of sugar. 

Fresh young pea pods should be washed and carefully 
steamed, and when very tender rubbed through a colander 
and added to the vegetable soup stock, as they give the 
stock both flavor and body. 



Veg'etables 291 

Green Pea Cutlets 

Take one quart of fresh green peas and after boiling in 
the usual way pass them through the pur^e sieve. Add 
to the pulp three quarters of a cup of dry bread crumbs, a 
saltspoon of salt, a half saltspoon of pepper, a tablespoon of 
melted butter, a dessertspoon of sugar, and one egg. Add a 
teaspoon of finely chopped mint leaves and a half teaspoon 
of onion juice; shape the mixture into cutlets after mixing 
well, dip them in egg, dust with bread crumbs, and fry. 
Serve with the cutlets a good, smooth tomato sauce. 

PEPPERS 

As baking shells, the bull-nosed green or red peppers 
have no peer, for if they are not overcooked and are rightly 
prepared they never lose their shape or spiU their contents 
while baking. Peppers thinly cut into strips lengthways 
and carefully fried in butter make a good edible garnish to 
serve around a platter of cutlets with a smooth tomato 
sauce poured in the center. 

Stuffed Green Peppers 

Cut the stem end from the peppers and remove the seed 
cones. Have ready a mixture made of one cup of sausage 
meat, a finely minced onion, a half cup of finely chopped 
mushrooms, a half cup of bread crumbs, a saltspoon of 
pepper, a half teaspoon of salt, a tablespoon of chutney 
syrup, and a teaspoon of chopped chives. Place the peppers 
in a well buttered baking dish, after stuffing them and 
tying on the covers, and pour around them enough good 
brown gravy to half fill the dish. Bake thirty minutes 
and serve. This mixture will fill four large pepper shells. 

Egjrptian Stuffed Peppers 

Cut around the stem end of a fresh green pepper and 
draw out tHe seed cone. Take a half pound of chopped 



292 Vegetables 

raw beef, add to it three quarters of a cup of bread crumbs, 
a tablespoon of butter, a saltspoon of pepper, a half teaspoon 
of salt, a little grated onion, and a beaten egg. Stuff the 
pepper shell with this mixture, roll in olive oil, and fry. 
This amount of stuffing will fill three good sized peppers. 

Apple Peppers 

Take two cups of smooth apple sauce, add to it one cup 
of bread crumbs that have been fried in butter and drained, 
two tablespoons of grated English cheese, a tablespoon of 
chopped walnut meats, and a teaspoon of chopped tarragon 
leaves. Bake until the pepper shell is tender, and serve 
as an edible garnish with roast pork. The pepper shells 
must be carefully washed and the seed cone removed before 
they are filled for baking and they may be halved or 
whole according to fancy. 

Macedoine Peppers 

Take a small bottle of macedoine vegetables, drain 
them, and add to them a small cup of bread cnmibs, a 
half gill melted butter, a half saltspoon of pepper, a salt- 
spoon of salt, six sliced truffles, juice of an onion, one beaten 
egg, and enough sweet cream to bind the mixture. Fill 
the peppers after smearing them inside thinly with pite- 
de-foie-gras. Bake for twenty minutes. This will fill four 
peppers. 

Boiled Peppers 

Carefully open some large smooth peppers and remove 
the seeds, stuff them with loose leaves of cabbage coarsely 
chopped, a lump of butter, a pinch of salt ; tie together with 
kitchen tape and drop into boiling water. Boil one hour, 
drain thoroughly, remove the tape, pour over them a rich 
cream sauce and serve. 



Vegetables 293 

Banana Peppers 

Cut three big green peppers in halves and remove the 
seed cones, arrange them on a buttered tin, and fill them with 
the following mixture. Mash three ripe bananas, add a 
half cup of sugar, a teaspoon of salt, a gill of melted butter, a 
tablespoon of chutney syrup, a tablespoon of chopped 
pecan nuts, half a cup of bread crumbs that have been 
fried in butter, a half cup of dry crumbs, and a beaten egg. 
Fill the peppers with the mixture, dust the top of each 
with grated Parmesan cheese and a little paprika. Bake 
until the peppers are tender but do not let them lose their 
shape. If they cook a Uttle dry, baste with a little melted 
butter. 

POTATOES 

Potatoes are a vegetable that may be served in a vast 
number of ways, being adapted to more uses than any of the 
other vegetables in use on the daily menu, and next to 
cereals they are considered the most valuable plant for the 
production of human food. In Saxony the potatoes are 
used boiled and beaten with sour milk to make a wonderful 
cheese, which if kept in closed vessels keeps for a number 
of years. 

If using old potatoes they should be carefully sprouted 
and spread out on a platform or large tray in a cool room 
or cellar so that they do not vegetate or soften. Some house- 
keepers still use potato yeast and others use the mashed 
potato in their bread. Old potatoes are best boiled with 
the skins on, then drained, dried, pared, and served with 
butter and chopped parsley in a deep dish, or mashed 
with butter, pepper, salt, and enough cream to make them 
rich and soft. 

New potatoes to boil should be carefully washed and 
have the skin rubbed off with a rough cloth, and boiled 
in salted water and served with plenty of butter. The 



294 Vegetables 

usual methods of frying potatoes are characterized as 
French fried, German fried, and country fashion, chips, 
sticks, or Boston strips, and are associated with certain 
dishes with which they are always served. Potato salad, 
always an appetizing dish, is served with several different 
kinds of dressings that are popular in certain localities. 

When boiling old potatoes add a little milk to the water 
and they will not turn dark. 

Never use boiled potatoes for salad that have chilled 
on ice. 

To Boil Potatoes 

If the potatoes are old choose as many as are needed of 
equal size, cut a little piece from the end of each, remove 
the eyes, and plunge the potatoes into boiling water to which 
a saltspoon of salt has been added. Boil steadily for thirty 
minutes, drain, pare, and serve with a gill of melted butter 
and a half teaspoon of chopped parsley, a half teaspoon of 
salt, and a saltspoon of pepper. New potatoes will boil in 
twenty minutes. 

To Bake Potatoes 

Wash the skins, carefully choosing potatoes of equal size, 
cut a tiny piece from each end, place them in a hot oven, and 
bake forty minutes, turning once. When done take from 
the oven in a soft cloth one at a time, and gently pinch the 
potato all around, which process frees the meat from the 
skin, so when it is broken open it bursts out light and 
fluffy. 

French Fried Potatoes 

The French fried potatoes are always cut lengthwise in 
strips, and allowed to stand one hour in cold water, then are 
slipped into hot lard that must be deep enough for them to 
float in. They are drained when brown, salted, and served 



Vegetables 295 

in a napkin, not, as is often the case, on the dish with the 
steak, where they are softened by its juices and spoiled. 

Escalloped Potatoes 

Pare and slice thin, potatoes enough to fill a medium-sized 
pudding dish, cover with cold water, and let stand three or 
four hours. Drain and dry on a linen cloth; grease the 
dish and add alternate layers of potatoes and cracker 
crumbs, dots of butter, a dusting of pepper and salt, and 
a teaspoon of sugar; then pour in one pint of milk and bake. 
Cover the dish one hour, then open it and brown daintily. 

Stuffed Potatoes in Casserole 

Select six medium-sized potatoes and, after paring and 
washing them, remove the centers with an apple corer. 
Then stuff the potatoes with well-seasoned sausage meat, lay 
them in a casserole dish, dust them with pepper and salt, 
and add a small can of button mushrooms which have been 
sauted in butter^ Put over all a pint of rich brown gravy. 
Let cook from an hour to an hour and a half, then serve 
with any good roast. The potato centers that are hollowed 
out may be boiled, then mashed or creamed for breakfast 
or luncheon use. 

Potato Rissoles 

Boil and mash six large potatoes, add a saltspoon of 
pepper, a half teaspoon of salt, a tablespoon of butter, and a 
teaspoon of minced parsley. Make into small balls, roll 
in beaten-egg, cracker dust, and a sprinkling of Parmesan 
cheese, and fry in hot lard a delicate brown; drain and serve 
in a napkin. 

German Potatoes 

Put three ounces of butter into' a stewpan with two table- 
spoons of flour. Stir until the butter is a light brown, then 



296 Vegetables 

add two tablespoons of vinegar and a half pint of stock. 
Peel and slice in long slices six large potatoes, lay them 
in the gravy, and simmer until they are done. Serve very 
hot with roast meat. 

Gennan Potato Cakes 

Pare and grate six large raw potatoes, add two eggs, one 
pint of milk, a saltspoon of pepper, a half teaspoon of 
salt, a tablespoon of sugar, two heaping tablespoons of 
flour, and one teaspoon baking powder; drop the batter by 
the spoonful on a hot greased griddle as for pancakes. Serve 
hot with butter and salt, or with stewed fruit. 

Irish Potato Cakes 

To one cup of mashed potatoes, seasoned with butter 
and salt, add one half cup of milk and one and one half 
cups of flour; beat lightly, add one teaspoon of caraway 
seeds. Roll into a round cake one inch thick and bake in 
buttered frying pan, covered, on top of the range. Bake 
brown, cut into four quarters, and serve hot, with butter 
and salt. 

Danish Potatoes 

Boil a quart of Danish potatoes; when done cut in thick 
slices; grate one large onion and add to three ounces of 
butter, and when melted fry the potatoes in it, drain, and 
serve on a napkin, garnished with cress. 

Potato Fingers 

These are to serve with chops. Take freshly mashed 
potato, add a cup of bread crumbs, a saltspoon of salt, 
a half saltspoon of pepper, one small grated onion, a table- 
spoon of butter, and enough milk to soften and one egg 
to bind the naixture, which is then formed into fingers 



"Vegetables 297 

three inches long and an inch through. Dip them in egg, 
then into fine crumbs, and fry in butter. Lay around the 
edge of a hot platter with the center heaped with French 
peas and garnish the chops with toast sippets and parsley. 

Riced Potatoes 

Boil, mash, and season six large potatoes, have a hot dish 
ready, and put them through the ricer. Serve with sausages 
baked in pastry squares. 

Potato Custards 

Boil and mash six large potatoes; add two well-beaten 
eggs, a tablespoon of butter, a saltspoon of pepper, a salt- 
spoon of salt, and one cup of hot milk; beat until very 
smooth and light; add a teaspoon of sugar and a very small 
grating of nutmeg. Lightly fill greased custard cups and 
bake a delicate brown. Bake fifteen minutes. 

Glazed Sweet Potatoes 

The glazed sweet potatoes are especially nice when cooked 
with honey. Split the boiled sweets lengthwise in thick 
slices, arrange them on a well-buttered baking dish, dust 
them with pepper, salt, and a little sugar, and turnover them 
a small cup of strained honey and a tablespoon of lemon 
•juice. The lemon juice keeps the honey from candying. 
Bake the potatoes until they are a delicate brown. 

Sweet Potatoes with Sherry Wine 

Boil six medium-sized sweet potatoes until soft, mash, 
season with a half teaspoon of salt, a saltspoon of pepper, 
and a gill of sherry wine. Moisten with rich milk or cream, 
beat vigorously, and pile lightly on a hot vegetable dish. 



298 Vegetables 

RADISHES 

The radish is one of the family of the cultivated horse- 
radish, and is composed mostly of fiber and nitrogen, 
being eaten raw it is on the nitrogen its flavor depends. 
They are red and white in the ordinary varieties best known 
here, in globe shape, or long hke the carrot. In France 
there is a black radish so called, and a violet one also, the 
black being the larger of the two. 

Creamed Radishes 

Wash, pare, and slice in thick slices eight or ten white 
radishes, in season. Put them in a saucepan with boiling 
water and let them boil until they are tender when pierced 
with a fork. Wh'fle the radishes are boihng add to them 
three cloves, a bay leaf, a half bud of garlic, and a half 
lemon sliced very thin, with the pits removed. Make a 
good cream sauce not too thick while the radishes are cook- 
ing and when they are done drain them very carefully and 
thoroughly; put them into the sauce and serve hot. Re- 
move the bits of lemon before sending to table and add one 
diced hard-boiled egg. 

This is an excellent way to use radishes that are too large 
and strong flavored to eat raw with salt. 

To Boil Salsify 

Scrape two bunches of salsify (oyster plant), wash and cut 
into one-inch pieces. Put them into cold water to which a 
teaspoon of lemon juice has been added to keep them from 
turning black. When ready to boil put them into boiUng 
water, to which a teaspoon of salt, a teaspoon of lemon 
juice, and a teaspoon of butter have been added, and boil 
rapidly for thirty minutes; test with a fork to make sure 
they are done. Drain and serve with seasoned melted 
butter, or in a cream sauce. 



Vegetables 299 

Mock Fish Pites 

Wash and scrape two bunches of salsify roots, boil until 
tender, drain, and beat with a wooden spoon to a smooth 
paste. Moisten the mixture with a Uttle cream, adding a 
heaping teaspoon of butter and an egg to each cup of salsify, 
the eggs being previously beaten. Fill scallop shells with 
the mixture, sprinkle a few bread crumbs over the top of 
eaph, and bake, serving hot. 

Italian Squash 

This is the name given by the marketmen to the long, 
round, green squash, not unlike a cuctunber in appearance 
except that its surface is smooth and it has delicate yellow 
gourd-Hke stripes running its length. It is a fine summer 
squash, but few American housekeepers are acquainted 
with it. The skin is thin, the seeds very small and tender, 
and the flavor is superior to that of any other simimer 
squash. 

These squashes should be pared and boiled about twenty 
minutes or until they are tender. Then remove them 
from the water and mash them in an enamel strainer; 
this frees them from the unnecessary water they contain. 
They may then be placed in a vegetable dish and a saltspoon 
of pepper, a half teaspoon of salt, a tablespoon of butter, 
and a teaspoon of sugar added by way of seasoning. 

Another way of cooking them is to pare and cut them 
into small pieces. Place them in a buttered baking dish; 
first a layer of the squash, then a sifting of bread crumbs 
with pepper, salt, and butter; then another layer of the 
squash, and so on until the dish is filled. Then add two 
gills of cream with two beaten eggs and a generous grating 
of English cheese over the top. Bake about half an hour 
in a moderate oven. 

The Italian squash may also be cut into thick slices with- 
out paring, dipped in egg, then in crumbs, and fried in the 



300 Vegetables 

same way as egg plant. Still another way is to pare and 
cut the squashes in thick slices and place them in a steamer. 
Steam until very tender, then serve them in a rich cream 
sauce which has been well seasoned but not made too 
thick. The Italians serve them steamed in this way, but 
instead of the cream sauce they use a rich brown gravy that 
has chopped sweet peppers through it and is dusted with 
Parmesan cheese. But no matter how these squashes are 
cooked they will be found a treat and a decided addition to 
the summer menu. 

All the other varieties of summer squash may be boiled 
and mashed in the same way. 

Hubbard Squash 

Take a medium-sized Hubbard squash, which is the best 
squash for winter cooking, cut it into quarters, remove the 
seeds, pare, and plunge into boiling water. Boil until 
tender, usually about thirty minutes. When done drain, 
mash very smooth, and add a heaping tablespoon of butter, 
a saltspoon of pepper, a level teaspoon of salt, and two 
tablespoons of sugar. Beat seasoning in well, and last of 
all add a half gill of sweet cream. 

Old-fashioned housekeepers cooked the squash without 
paring, and then, when done, scooped the flesh from the 
shells. But this is a difficult method, and it seems to be 
just as good done in the simpler way. 

The squash is very heavy and hard to cut so that a sharp 
knife and a hammer are necessary. 

To Wash and BoU Spinach 

Take two quarts of fresh spinach, pick it over carefully, 
remove all weeds or stalks, then wash it in seven waters. 
This is done by using two dish pans or pails, lifting it from 
one to the other, constantly changing the water, so that the 
sand settles to the bottom. When thoroughly clean put 
the spinach into a large saucepan with two heaping table- 



"Vegetables 301 

spoons of salt, and a pint of boiling water, press it down 
frequently with a wooden spoon, and cook evenly for ten 
niinutes, or until it is perfectly tender. Then drain in a 
colander, pressing it dry and chopping it fine. Put the 
spinach back into a clean stewpan, with a heaping table- 
spoon of butter, a saltspoon of pepper, and a half teaspoon 
of salt. When hot serve garnished with hard-boiled eggs 
sliced. 

It may also be served with a cream sauce, or with a rich 
tomato sauce. 

German Spinach Loaf 

Take one cup of boiled spinach, a half a cup of bread 
crumbs, six large sardines, skinned, boned, and broken, a 
gill of melted butter, a tablespoon of chutney syrup, and 
one teaspoon of lemon juice. Add one hard-boiled egg 
that has been chopped, a saltspoon of pepper, a half teaspoon 
of salt, and one beaten raw egg. Mix the ingredients 
thoroughly together and place them in a buttered loaf pan; 
bake in the oven for about an hour, or less if the oven is very 
hot. Unmold the loaf on a hot platter and turn over it a 
good cream sauce that is not too thick and garnish with 
sprays of parsley. 

Spinach Souffle 

Take four pounds of spinach, trim and wash it thoroughly, 
then boil in plenty of water, adding a pinch of soda and a 
pinch of salt. When done, remove the spinach from the 
water into a strainer with a skimmer; this will leave any 
extra sand at the bottom of the kettle. When drained 
chop the spinach very fine and add to it four well-beaten 
eggs, a saltspoon of pepper, a half teaspoon of salt, a dessert- 
spoon of melted butter, and a quarter cup of cream. Mix 
thoroughly, put in well-buttered souffle dishes, or large 
ramekins, and bake ten minutes. 



302 Vegetables 

Marrons in Spinach 

Wash, boil, and prepare spinach in the usual way, then 
drain, chop fine, and pan it in butter, when it will be ready- 
to turn on to a hot platter and be covered with the following 
sauce: One pint of cooking marrons, drain and cook until 
very tender in a pint of red stock, then season well, add a 
cup of liquor in which they were put up, boil up, and thicken 
slightly with butter and browned flour rubbed to a cream, 
turn over the spinach on the hot plate^^ and garnish with 
fried tomato slices. 

Succotash 

Prepare a dozen ears of com by splitting the grains and 
scraping them down with the back of a knife, then add a 
tablespoon of butter, a saltspooil of pepper, a half teaspoon 
of salt, two tablespoons of sugar, a cup of cream, and a half 
cup of milk; stew in double boiler fifteen minutes. Have 
ready a quart of freshly boiled Lima beans, drain them and 
add to the corn. Fry two slices of pickled pork that has 
been diced a crisp brown and add them with the fat to the 
succotash. This is a famous New England recipe. The 
succotash may, of course, be made from canned materials. 

Fried Tomatoes 

Select four firm ripe tomatoes and wash and cut them in 
thick slices without paring them. Dust lightly with 
pepper and salt and fry them in hot butter. When done, 
drain; then lay each slice on a buttered toast round, pour 
over each a small cup of hot cream and serve at once. 
The slices may be dipped in crumbs, fried, and served 
without a sauce. 

Green Fried Tomatoes 

Wash and slice green tomatoes in thick slices and let 
stand in salt water all day, dry off, and dip in beaten egg 



Vegetables 303 

and roll in cracker dust, sprinkle with salt and pepper and 
fry in hot fat, drain and serve with any sort of broiled meat 
or boiled fish. 

Stuffed Tomatoes 

Select as many tomatoes as are needed to serve one to a 
portion, and hollow out the stem end. Make a savory 
stuffing of a half cupof bread crumbs, a teaspoon of chopped 
celery and onion, and a half cup of flaked cold boiled cod- 
fish ; season all highly, add a half gill of melted butter and a 
tablespoon of cream, and stuff the tomatoes with it. Dip 
each,afteritis stuffed, in a little melted butter; then sprinkle 
with fine crumbs and bake on a buttered pan. Do not 
bake long enough to have them collapse and spoil the 
appearance of the dish. This stuffing will fill four large 
tomatoes. 

Fresh Stewed Tomatoes 

Cut in quarters six large tomatoes, cover them with one 
half pint of boiling water, add a teaspoon of salt, and stew 
gently until the tomatoes are done, about fifteen minutes. 
Then add a saltspoon of pepper, a tablespoon of sugar, a 
half saltspoon of bi-carbonate of soda, and thicken slightly 
with two teaspoons of browned flour that has been worked 
smooth with two teaspoons of butter. 

TURNIPS 

Turnips do not appeal strongly to all people, yet they 
are a useful winter vegetable and can be cooked in several 
attractive ways. The small white ones are often boiled 
and served with a cream sauce, the yellow ones are usually 
mashed or diced in butter. 

Fried Turnips 

Pare, and boil for thirty minutes a large yellow turnip 
When tender slice in medium slices; dip in egg, then in 



304 Vegetables 

crtunbs seasoned with a saltspoon of pepper, a half teaspoon 
of salt, a teaspoon of sugar, and a little chopped parsley. 
Fry in deep hot fat until a good brown; drain and serve. 

Turnip Croquettes 

Boil one yellow turnip with two potatoes. When thor- 
oughly done mash very smooth, add a gill of cream, one 
egg, a saltspoon of pepper, a half teaspoon of salt, a big 
lump of butter, and a half cup of finely chopped pecans. 
Beat thoroughly and sift in enough flour to form into cro- 
quettes. Fry in very hot lard, drain, and serve in a napkin 
with parsley and thinly sliced lemon. A slight dusting of 
powdered sugar may go in with the nuts and adds to the 
flavor. 

Yellow Ttimip 

Pare, and boil the turnip until done ; mash with plenty of 
butter, pepper, salt, sugar, and a gill of cream. Serve hot. 

Turnip Pie 

Boil, and mash one yellow turnip, add to it a saltspoon of 
pepper, half a teaspoon of salt, a gill of melted butter, a 
tablespoon of sugar, and a cup of apple sauce. Line a deep 
pie plate with crust, then spread a thick layer of the ttunip 
in, and over the top spread a thick layer of well-seasoned 
sausage meat, spread thinly with apple sauce, and put on 
the top crust. Bake in a medium oven a half hour, and 
serve hot. 

Stuffed Turnips 

Pare, and boil for twenty minutes enough large white 
turnips to aUow one to a portion, and when they are partly 
done remove from the fire and drain. Cut a slice off the 
bottom so that they stand firmly, then with a teaspoon 
hollow out the centers. Have a filUng ready, made of a 



Vegetables 305 

half cup of cold chopped meat, a minced onion, a teaspoon of 
chopped parsley, a half cup of bread crumbs, a saltspoon of 
pepper, a saltspoon of salt, a dessertspoon of sugar, a half 
gill of melted butter and a tablespoon of cream. Fill the 
turnips and tie the tops on with a piece of kitchen tape; 
place them in a baking pan and pour over them a quart of 
good stock. Dust the top of each with a httle grated cheese. 
Cook until they are a delicate brown, then remove them to 
a hot dish with a skimmer. Thicken the gravy with a little 
butter and flour, adding a little cream if it has cooked 
away. Pull off the little tapes and pour the gravy over the 
turnips. The insides cut from the turnips may be used up 
in the vegel^ble soup. 

Truffles 

Truffles, to be in perfection, must be quite fresh, good 
ones being easily distinguished by their agreeable aroma. 
They are light in proportion to their size, and elastic when 
pressed by the finger. French truffles are exported in great 
■quantities, bottled, canned, in powder form, and are con- 
served in various other ways. There are also a large 
number shipped from Italy. 

There are three varieties of the species: the black, the 
red and the white, the latter being of little value. The 
best truffles come from Perigord, the next best from 
Provence, Dauphine ; the white truffles come from Piedmont. 
The black truffle has the highest repute and its consump- 
tion is enormous. The red truffle is very rare, like the 
edible red mushroom, and in France its use is restricted 
by law. 

Truffles au Naturel 

Select as many truffles as are required. They should be 
of equal size. If fresh ones are procured, cleanse them 
carefully by washing them in several waters and scrubbing 
them with a stifE brush to remove every particle of sand and 



306 Vegetables 

grit; if truffles from can or bottle are used, rinse them 
thoroughly in cold water and dry them on a soft cloth. 
When washed, dust them hghtly with a little pepper and 
salt, squeeze a few drops of onion jtiice over them, and wrap 
each one in buttered paper. Bake in a hot oven for about 
an hour; when done, remove and take off the paper, drain, 
and serve heaped in a napkin. These will be found very 
nice, served in this way, with broiled chicken. 

Ham and Truf&es 

Drain, and rinse carefully a one-pint bottle of truffles. 
Cover the bottom of a frying pan with sliced bacon, arrange 
the truffles evenly on top, covering them wiUh a slice of 
ham which has been steeped in water to freshen, and over 
all put one cup of finely minced veal. In another well- 
buttered frjdng pan put one thinly sliced onion, a tablespoon 
of chopped parsley, a half bud of garlic, a saltspoon of salt, 
a saltspoon of pepper, and two cold boiled carrots, minced. 
When these begin to color, moisten with three quarters of a 
pint of tomato juice that has had added to it two tablespoons 
of chutney syrup, two tablespoons of tomato ketchup, two 
tablespoons of olive oil, and a half saltspoon of mignonette 
pepper. When this mixture has boiled up once, pour it 
over the meat and truffles, cover, and let all cook gently 
together for one hour and a half. When ready to serve, 
place on a hot dish the slice of ham, arrange the truffles 
on top, strain the gravy, which may be thickened slightly if 
it seems too thin, then turn it over the truffles, and garnish 
with toast sippets. 

Truffles a I'ltalienne 

Clean carefully ten good-sized truffles, slice them, and 
put them into a saut6 pan with one ounce of butter, one 
minced shalot, a saltspoon of salt, a half saltspoon of pepper, 
one tablespoon of minced parsley, and a few drops of onion 
juice; stir them over the fire for about ten minutes so that 



Vegetables 307 

they may all be equally done. When done, drain off the 
butter and add one ounce of fresh butter, two tablespoons 
of good stock, the juice of half a lemon, and a dash of cayenne 
pepper. Stir over the fire once more, until the whole reaches 
boiling point. Serve hot. 

Baked Truffles 

Take ten truffles, wash them thoroughly, cut them in 
slices, and place the slices in a buttered baking dish, mixing 
with them a seasoning of a quarter of a pint of salad oil, 
a saltspoon of pepper, a half teaspoon of salt, one table- 
spoon of minced parsley, one bud of finely minced garlic, 
and a pinch of mace. Bake them for nearly an hour, and 
just before serving sprinkle over them a tablespoon of 
lemon juice. 

Vegetable Marrow 

For the vegetable marrow, select a good-sized one, cut 
off one end, and scoop out the center freely, then make a 
savory filling of five tablespoons of bread crumbs and one 
tablespoon of melted butter, a fried onion, a dessertspoon of 
chopped parsley, a saltspoon of sage, and thyme. Season 
well, add a few drops of lemon juice, and bind all with a 
beaten egg. Fill the marrow, place it in a cloth, and steam 
until tender, then cover with brown sauce containing a 
tablespoon of fried bread crumbs. 

Baked Marrow, Sour Cream Sauce 

Wash and cut two vegetable marrows in half and scrape 
out the seeds; make a savory stuffing of one cup of crumbs, 
one chopped onion, a tablespoon of chopped celery, twelve 
seeded raisins, a tablespoon of chopped pecan meats, a tea- 
spoon of cold boiled chopped ham, a tablespoon of cream 
and two of sherry; stuff, and bake in a moderate ovefi until 
the marrow is tender enough to scoop out of the shell. 



308 Veg'etables 

Set the marrows on a bed of parsley and serve. The sauce 
is made of a cupful of sour cream beaten with the juice of 
a lemon and a teaspoon of sugar, and is served in a 
tureen. 

Vegetarian Roast 

Mix together one half cup of lentil pulp, one whole cup of 
pea pulp, a half cup of finely chopped English walnuts, one 
cup of bread crumbs, a gill of melted butter, a gill of cream, 
a saltspoon of pepper, a half teaspoon of salt, a little sage, a 
teaspoon of sugar, and a half cup of hot cream. Fold in the 
stififly beaten whites of two eggs, and turn the mixttire into 
a buttered baking dish. Bake in a medium oven until firm 
enough to slice. Serve with the roast a cranberry jelly 
and, in a tureen, a brown apple sauce. For the sauce take 
a half pint of heavy tomato stock, adding to it one cup of 
smooth apple sauce; thicken slightly with butter and 
browned flour and season to taste. 

Dasheens 

This vegetable is a staple article of food for millions 
of people in tropical and subtropical countries. In general 
it is used in the different ways in which the white potato 
and the sweet potato are used. The flesh of the large 
spherical corms and of the larger tubers (which are usually 
much smaller than the corms) is frequently somewhat 
gray or violet when cooked, but this does not affect the 
flavor. Baked dasheens, stufEed dasheens, scalloped 
dasheens, boiled dasheens, fried dasheens, mashed dasheens, 
creamed dasheens, dasheen salad, dasheens as filling for 
fowls and other meats, dasheen soup, candied dasheens, 
dasheen pie, dasheen pudding, dasheen shoots, dasheen 
greens are all good. Prepare and cook them as you would 
potatoes. The dasheen is a member of the elephant-eared 
caladium plant family. 



Vegetables 309 

Crones 

An odd-looking little Japanese vegetable, the crone, 
made its d^but at a recent culinary show in New York 
City. It is about three inches long, covered with a pale 
yellow skin, Uke a potato, and is shaped and marked like a 
circular conch shell, ris^g to a point at the end. The 
flavor is very much like that of the Jerusalem artichoke 
and it is sold by the pound, but as the weight is light a 
pound goes a good way. 

It is much easier to boil crones before paring, as then they 
retain their shape more perfectly. Plain boiled, they are 
very nice served with a dressing of melted butter that has 
been allowed to boil up once with a teaspoon of carefully 
washed fresh fennel seed added to it. They are also good 
creamed, to serve with chops or steak; or, after boiling, 
they may be broiled, dipped in melted butter, and rolled 
in a little minced parsley to be used as an edible garnish. 

VEGETABLES IN JELLY 

The foundation of these jellies is not just plain gelatine 
but is a chicken jelly, a calf's foot jelly, a mutton broth 
jelly, a beef jelly, or a cereal jelly, each making, when 
properly combined, a tasty background for the vegetable 
flavors. In seasoning foods that are to be jellied one 
must always remember that the chilling seems to duU the 
flavor, and it is wise to add a little more than would be used 
if the dish were to be served warm; be careful only about the 
addition of too much salt. 

From the following five foundation jellies most of the 
jellied vegetables are made. Before jellying, the vegetables 
are always cooked and cooled. 

Chicken Jelly 

Select one short, thick, four-pound chicken, dress and 
singe it. Have the butcher split six pairs of chicken feet 



3IO Vegetables 

and put them to boil with the chicken. When the chicken 
has boiled tender, take it from the broth, and after it slightly 
cools take the meat from the bones to use for a salad or 
creamed chicken. Throw the skin and bones back into the 
broth, add one thinly sliced onion, a stalk of celery, a diced 
carrot, a tablespoon of rice, and a Uttle chopped parsley. 
Boil the broth down until the liquid is reduced to about a 
quart, then add a saltspoon of pepper and a half teaspoon of 
salt and remove from the fire; strain carefully into a crock 
and when cold remove the grease from the top and set it 
away to jell. 

Calf's Foot JeUy 

Select four calves' feet and have them properly cleaned 
and split. Cover them with water, adding a thinly sliced 
onion, a bunch of sweet herbs, a stalk of celery, a few 
tarragon leaves, a bay leaf, and four cloves, a saltspoon of 
pepper and a half-teaspoon of salt. Let cook evenly until 
the meat falls from the bones. Strain the broth carefully 
into a crock and when cool skim and set away to jell. 

Mutton Broth Jelly 

Take two pounds of neck of mutton, one calf's foot, a 
small bunch of sweet herbs, a small onion, a bay leaf, and 
two cloves; cover with cold water and boil. Boil until the 
meat falls from the bones and the liquid is reduced to about 
one quart. Strain carefully, and when cold remove the 
fat and set away to jell. 

Tapioca Jelly 

Put two heaping tablespoons of tapioca into a pint of 
water and cook until the tapioca is transparent, then add a 
saltspoon of salt and a teaspoon of butter, turn into a mold 
and set away until needed. 



Vegetables 311 

Beef Jelly 

Make a half pint of good beef broth, using a pound of 
tenderloin of beef diced, a pint of water, a saltspoon of 
pepper, and a half teaspoon of salt. "When done, strain, and 
add to it a scant tablespoon of gelatine which has been 
melted in a little cold water, stir it in while the broth is still 
hot, then strain again, and set away to jell. 

These jeUies may all be made a day ahead of the time 
they are to be used, when half the quantity of any one of 
them will be sufficient for one jellied vegetable foundation 
except the beef broth, /which is in quantity for only one dish. 

Vegetable Macedoine 

Take half the quantity made of chicken jelly and melt 
it in a saucepan; add to it a small bottle of mac6doine of 
vegetables carefully drained; season, and when all is heated 
through, turn into small molds and set aside to jell. 

Jellied Cucumber and Onion 

Slice thinly two cucumbers and chop fine one Spanish 
onion; saut^ them in butter until they are a dehcate brown, 
season with a saltspoon of pepper, a saltspoon of salt, 
and a saltspoon of sugar, and drain carefully. Have ready 
melted a pint of the calf's foot jelly and add these to it. 
Put into individual wet molds and set away to jell. 

Jellied Carrots and Rice 

Pare, boil, and dice two carrots, take a half cup of freshly 
boiled rice, and have ready melted a pint of the mutton 
broth; stir the carrots and rice into it, add a teaspoon of 
chopped parsley, a saltspoon of pepper and salt, and set 
away to jell in wet molds. 

Jellied Beets 

Boil, pare, and dice enough beets to allow one for each 
portion to be served. When cold allow them to marinate 



312 Vegetables 

in French dressing for one hour. Melt half the quantity 
of tapioca jelly, drain the beets and add them to it, mix, 
and turn into wetted molds and jell. 

Jellied Peas and Catiliflower 

Melt the beef jelly, add to it a half cup of freshly cooked 
green peas that have been drained and a few sprays of 
freshly boiled cauliflower, season with a saltspoon of pepper, 
two saltspoons of salt, a teaspoon of sugar, and turn into 
wetted molds and jell. 

Asparagus in Aspic 

Boil two bunches of green asparagus until tender, cutting 
them back far enough so that all the stalk will be edible. 
Have ready a well seasoned chicken aspic, colored with 
Breton coloring a pale green. Turn a little of the jelly into 
the bottom of a damp, cold mould, and when slightly set 
lay in a layer of the asparagus and one hard-boiled egg 
sliced. Then turn in a little more jelly, another layer of 
asparagus and egg; after this fill the mould with jelly. 
When chilled and set sHce with a sharp knife; serve on let- 
tuce leaves garnished with a slice of fresh tomato and may- 
onnaise also colored a delicate green. Besides being a most 
decorative dish this is a very appetizing one. 

THE MARKETS OF CHINATOWN 

In summer the green goods displayed in the Chinese 
shops are raised on Long Island farms by Chinamen, but 
in the winter season most of the things are raised in the 
south. 

The bins and shelves are filled with dried edibles such as 
mushrooms, dried flying fish or other fish, water chestnuts, 
and a variety of dried roots and vegetables. Hanging 
from the lines above the customer's head are quantities of 
dried ducks that have been smoked and dried whole; these 



Vegetables 313 

ducks are considered a great delicacy. The dried flying fish 
and strips of bacon, already cooked, are neatly rolled around 
bamboo splints and hung in bundles. 

Among the vegetables in the windows are Chinese pota- 
toes. The Chinese cabbages head up much more loosely 
than our own cabbages, and have, when cooked, a decided 
herb flavor. 

Sweet mustard is a great favorite on the Chinese table. 
It resembles the outside leaves of cauhflower, though the 
stems are more succulent and it does not head with a sohd 
center. The sweet mustard is prepared by pulling the 
leaves apart and washing them carefully, then boiling them 
in water which must be changed three times, after which 
a small loin of pork, or a fresh ham is put in, and cooked 
with them. 

Tulip bulbs are pared, and eaten with a little garlic as a 
relish, or they are cooked and served with a specially made 
meat sauce and rice. It is safe to say that after a wee 
taste most people would prefer to have their tulip bulbs 
grow and blossom rather than add them to the Hst of avail- 
able salad materials. 

"Elephants' Trunks" look as if they might easily pose 
as the ancestors of the American beets, and they are cooked 
and used in much the same way as beets are used on Ameri- 
can tables. There is a peculiar kind of lettuce which has 
an unpronounceable name, as well as a most unhappy taste, 
that is very popular among the Chinese for boiling with 
dried fish. 

Water sprouts look about as chicory salad would look 
if cut into small pieces. Theyare used in almost all Chinese 
sauces and are very crisp, with a slightly bitter flavor. 
Another staple article is the water chestnut. These nuts 
are pared and eaten raw, or they may be cooked with the 
favorite chicken and mushroom dish, or again cut fine and 
added to a rich brown gravy which has grated pineapple 
in it and is often served with the dish known as "pineapple 
pike, " an especially good fish concoction. 



314 Vegetables 

A great deal of horse-radish is used in Chinese cooking, 
therefore the market is plentifully suppHed with it, and it 
vies with green peppers, onions, and turnips for first place. 
Ginger root is prepared in several ways and takes the place 
of the pepper when it is out of season. The sweets offered 
in Chinese markets are sugar cane, rice cakes, and candies; 
preserved, sugared, and dried fruits; sugared ginger, and 
sweet flag roots. 



CEREALS 

There are so many cereals on the market, recommended 
by physicians and food specialists, that to treat the subject 
at length is hardly necessary here. So only the simplest 
recipes for the cooking of the best-known cereals are given. 

Corn-meal Mush 

Put two quarts of water and two teaspoons of salt into a 
mush kettle, and when it is boiling sift in slowly a pint and 
a half of yellow corn meal. Boil rapidly for ten minutes, 
then set back on the stove, and allow it to cook very gently 
for two hours. The mush may then be seasoned with a 
small Ixmip of butter and a tablespoon of sugar, then turned 
into a wet mold and allowed to harden. When cold it 
may be cut down and fried, and eaten as a breakfast dish 
with maple syrup. Or it may be eaten hot with cream. 

To Boil Oatmeal 

Put one quart of water into a double boiler with a tea- 
spoon of salt and bring to boiling point. Sift in very 
slowly six tablespoons of oatmeal (Scotch or Irish). Bring 
it to boiling point and allow it to boil gently, but steadily, 
for fotu: hours. Serve seasoned to taste with cream or 
butter. 

Hominy 

There are two kinds of hominy: one is the entire grain 
and the other is the ground grain after the hull has been 
removed; both kinds have to be soaked in cold water twelve 

315 



3l6 Cereals 

hours before being cooked, both, also, double in quantity 
with the soaking. 

They are put to cook in the morning in fresh boiling 
water and allowed to boil, four or five hours; a teaspoon of 
salt is added to each pint of hominy. As it absorbs the 
water while cooking it must be watched and more water 
added as needed. The last time water is added allow it to 
cook until all the water is absorbed, so it is dry when the 
seasoning is added just before service. 

On the containers of all the breakfast foods will be 
found adequate recipes and directions for their use. 

Farina Dumplings 

Bring one quart of milk to a boil, stirring in slowly ten 
ounces of farina, and boil till well done, continually stirring. 
After cooling, stir in a tablespoon of fresh melted butter, 
three well-beaten eggs, a half pound of flour with one and a 
half teaspoons of baking powder and a little salt. Mix 
well and drop with a tablespoon into boiling water, well 
salted. Boil fifteen minutes till they rise, take out with 
a skimmer, and serve hot with fruit sauce. 

SICE DISHES 

It is said that rice forms the principal food of one half the 
population of the earth, and it is unquestionably used more 
generally than any other cereal. The Creoles use it from 
one to three times a day, but rarely use sugar with it, pre- 
ferring to have it served hot with any sort of good gravy. 

Rice should always be served dry, steaming hot, with 
every grain separate if it is used plain boiled as a vegetable. 
In fact. It should be cooked in that way before it is added 
to any combination either as a vegetable or as a dessert. 

There are said to be one thousand four hundred different 
varieties of rice; in the United States six grades are home 
grown. From Honduras come three varieties: a long 



Cereals 317 

whole grain, a long partly broken grain, and a finely broken 
grain. From Japan we get a round whole grain, a round 
partly broken grain, and "screenings." 

When the housewife once learns to cook rice as the Chinese 
cook it, she will have mastered one of the real arts of good 
cookery, and this practical recipe may be of use to her. 

To Cook Rice 

Wash one cup of rice through six waters until all cloudi- 
ness is removed and drain it thoroughly. Have ready 
boiling three cups of water, to which add a saltspoonof 
salt and a saltspoon of butter; add the rice slowly so that 
the water will not stop boiling. When it is all in, tilt the 
cover over the saucepan and dp not stir the rice but depend 
upon the boihng water to keep the grains jumping. Allow 
it to boil about fifteen minutes to absorb the water fully, 
then remove the cover and, at the same heat, let the rice 
dry out for five minutes, watching it carefully. If cooking 
over gas, lower the flame after five minutes and continue 
the drying out process for fifteen minutes or so, when it 
will be ready to serve in any way one may desire. 

To Boil Rice 

To use rice as a vegetable it should be so cooked that 
each grain is separate. To have it this way proceed as 
follows: Wash three quarters of a pound of rice in cold 
water, let it soakfor anhour, then have ready a saucepan of 
boiling water and drop the rice in, keep it boiling quickly 
until done; add a dash of salt, and throw the rice into a 
sieve to strain it. Pile on the center of a dish of fried 
chicken or use around the edge as a garnish. 

Rice washed in hot water is more quickly cleansed and 
freed from starch than when washed in cold water. 

Rice Pilau 

Put a half pound of rice into cold water, add a dash of 



3i8 Cereals 

salt, and boil slowly, drain oflE the water, and freshen it 
with cold water, and cover closely with a cloth to steam, 
placing it in a warm place to Swell. Melt a half pound 
of butter, pour over the rice, garnish with parsley, and 
serve. 

Rice Milanese 

To make the rice milanese, boil six ounces of rice in a 
double boiler until tender, chop and fry one onion brown; 
add two pealed tomatoes and cook until tender, then add 
to the rice with the yolks of two eggs, one and a half ounces 
of grated cheese and seasoning. Mix well and serve with 
English brown sauce. 

Fried Rice 

Boil the rice and cool it in a square mould; cut in half -inch 
slices, roll in flour, and fry in very hot fat. Drain on brown 
paper, season, and serve with chops. 

Hot Honey ' and Rice 

Wash a cup of rice in a number of waters until the cloudi- 
ness disappears, drain, and plunge into a quart of boiling 
water, adding a teaspoon of salt and lard the size of a 
filbert. Boil twenty minutes, drain, and mix with two 
heaping tablespoons of butter and a small cup of strained 
honey. Serve with a spoonful of whipped cream on top 
of each portion. 

Rice Fritters 

Mash a cup of cold boiled rice thoroughly with a cup of 
milk and one well-beaten egg; add to this batter a half cup 
of sifted flour and a half teaspoon of yeast powder, a pinch 
of salt, a heaping tablespoon of sugar. Mix thoroughly 
and drop by spoonfuls into hot fat. When done, drain, and 
serve with any kind of roast meat. 



Cereals 319 

MACARONI AND SPAGHETTI DISHES 

The best macaroni comes from the continent of Europe — 
best for the reason that it cooks more tender than any other, 
though there are two or three American brands that seem 
to be constantly improving. 

The macaroni which is of a yellowish color is usually the 
best ; the white kind is inferior and lacks body. It increases 
in boiling at about a fourfold rate, so one may judge in this 
way the quantity to use for the number of portions to be 
served. To boil macaroni properly (and the same rules 
apply to spaghetti), have the water boiling and jumping, 
throw into it a tablespoon of salt, then break the macaroni 
into desired lengths and drop it into the water a little at a 
time, so as not to stop the water boiling. When it has 
boiled from fifteen to twenty minutes, pinch a piece between 
the thumb and finger to test whether or not it is perfectly 
done. Then throw it into a sieve and pour first lukewarm 
water through it, then cold water, which will remove the 
mucilaginous liquid that makes it cling together. Pour it 
back into the basin and it is ready to fix in any of the 
various dishes which have been selected for the day. 

Baked Macaroni 

Make a cream sauce, not too thick; add to it a dash of 
paprika, a half cup of grated English cheese, and the boiled 
macaroni. Put all into a well-buttered baking dish, sprin- 
kling the top with a tablespoon of very dry bread crumbs 
mixed with a little of the cheese, and bake a delicate brown. 

Macaroni Cutlets 

Boil and prepare the macaroni as above. When ready 
chop it slightly and add six ounces of bread crumbs, a 
teaspoon of thyme, and one of parsley. Fry in butter three 
finely sHced onions and two tomatoes; when done, turn into 
the mixture, adding one egg, a tablespoon of sugar, pepper, 
and salt. Shape into cutlets, roll in floiu:, and fry in hot 
fat, drain and serve with a rich smooth tomato sauce, 
garnished with parsley and toast sippets. 



320 Cereals 

Macaroni with Saffron Curry Sauce 

Boil a half package of macaroni in the usual way. To 
one pint of red stock add a half teaspoon of curry powder 
and a saltspoon of saffron, rub a little flour and butter 
together, and thicken the sauce to the consistency of honey; 
add salt, a teaspoon of sugar, and heat the macaroni in the 
sauce until it is hot, then serve. 

Macaroni with Spinach 

Have ready boiled and blanched a package of macaroni 
broken into short lengths. Wash thoroughly two quarts of 
spinach and boil it in the usual way; when done, drain it 
carefully, chop very fine, drain it again, then pan it in 
butter. Place the macaroni on a hot platter, turn the 
spinach in the center of it, dust the top with pepper and salt, 
pour over all a gill of melted butter, and sprinkle the top 
with a little freshly grated Parmesan cheese, 

Italian Spaghetti 

To one package of boiled and blanched spaghetti add a 
small cup of bread crumbs that have been fried in butter 
and drained, with a dusting of pepper and salt, a gill of 
melted butter in which a half teaspoon of powdered saffron 
has been mixed, and a cup and a half of smooth tomato 
sauce about the consistency of honey. Wipe the serving 
dish with a bud of garlic and turn in the mixture. 

Spaghetti Cutlets 

Boil a half package of spaghetti until done, then drain, 
blanch, and chop it in small pieces. Add to it six ounces 
of bread crumbs, one large onion that has been chopped and 
browned in butter, a teaspoon of chopped parsley, a tea- 



Cereals 321 

spoon of lemon juice, a couple of tomatoes that have been 
chopped and fried with the onion, a saltspoon of pepper, 
and two saltspoons of salt, a dash of sugar, and one beaten 
egg to bind the mixture. Mix all well and shape into cutlets. 
Dip each in egg, roll them in flour, then fry them in hot fat. 
Serve with a rich smooth tomato sauce. 

Buttered Spaghetti * 

Boil a half package of spaghetti as usual; add a teaspoon 
of fresh fennel seed to a half pint of melted butter and let 
simmer for five minutes without burning; add a teaspoon 
of onion juice, a saltspoon each of salt and cayenne pepper, 
and mix with the spaghetti. When hot remove from the 
fire and stir into it a half cup of grated English cheese. 

Spaghetti a la Turque 

Boil half a package of spaghetti, wash and drain, then 
chop it quite fine, and add a half pint of fine dry bread 
crumbs, with a grated onion, two tablespoons of chopped 
parsley, a saltspoon of pepper, and a half teaspoon of 
salt, a tablespoon of chutney syrup, a generous rating of 
nutmeg, and one beaten egg. Turn the mixture into small, 
buttered cups, and steam for an hour and a half, then turn 
out on to individual plates and cover with a ricLi brown 
gravy. 

Spaghetti in Tomato Aspic 

Boil and blanch a package of spaghetti, then chop it 
coarsely. Take a large can of tomatoes and add a little 
chopped celery, a sliced onion, and a bunch of savory herbs. 
Boil this mixture for half an hour, then strain; add to the 
strained tomato juice three heaping tablespoons of powdered 
gelatine that has been soaked a little while in cold water. 
When the gelatine is thoroughly melted, add seasoning to 
taste, and strain the sauce over the spaghetti. Pour all into 
a mold that has been wet with cold water and set aside to 



322 Cereals 

chill and harden. When ready to serve, turn out of the 
mold and slice on lettuce leaves, covering each slice with 
rich mayonnaise. 

Vermicelli and Noodles 

Vermicelli is made of the same paste that macaroni, 
spaghetti, and angel tresses are made of, which is a 
wheaten flour flavored with other articles and worked 
up with water into a paste. The finest is made from the 
flour of the hard-grained. Black Sea wheat. 

Besides being used in broths and soups the vermicelli 
may be used as a vegetable, being plain boiled by being 
plunged into boiling salted water and boiling rapidly for 
ten minutes, then drained and served in tomato sauce or 
butter sauce. 

Vennicelli Custard 

Boil, drain, and blanch a half box of vermicelli; then 
add to it a cup of hot milk, a cup of hot cream, a cup of 
sugar, three beaten eggs, a teaspoon of vanilla, a grating 
of nutmeg, and twelve large seeded raisins that have been 
allowed to marinate in ginger syrup for a half hour. Pour aU 
into a buttered baking dish and set the dish in a pan of hot 
water in the oven until the custard sets. Serve the pudding 
hot or cold with whipped cream. 

NOODLES 

Though noodles may be purchased ready-made in any 
quantity or shape desired, made of the same Italian paste 
that the macaronis are made of, they are nicer when made 
at home. The various Italian pastes contain about the 
nourishment of our white bread. But used in combinations 
with vegetables and meats they make very satisfactory 
and wholesome dishes. 



Cereals 323 

To Make Plain Noodles 

Take four tablespoons of flour and add to it one well- 
beaten egg, mixing thoroughly; when the dough becomes 
hard knead it until it becomes soft, pliable, and free from 
stickiness. Then roll it out in a very thin sheet, place it on 
a linen cloth, and hang it in the air for about fifteen minutes 
so that it may dry, then roll it tightly and, beginning at 
either end of the roll, slice it down thinly with a sharp knife. 
When cut, shake the noodles up, place them on a clean sheet 
of brown paper, and let them dry in the sun, or in a cooling 
oven for a couple of hours, then put them into a mason jar 
and screw down the cover tight. They are then ready for 
use. 

Besides being used in soups noodles are made into many 
so-called made dishes. 

Noodles with Brown Sauce 

Take two cups of noodles and add them gently to a 
quart of boiling salted water and boil ten minutes.' Drain 
carefully, then add them to a well-seasoned brown sauce, and 
serve them with a steak or pork tenderloins. 

Escalloped Noodles 

Boil the noodles in the usual way, drain and put a layer in 
the bottom of a buttered baking dish. Then put a layer of 
diced carrots, potatoes, and a grated onion, a dusting of 
pepper and salt, and a teaspoon of sugar. Then add another 
layer of the noodles and continue in this way until the 
dish is full. Then turn over all a gill of melted butter and 
a cup of well-seasoned tomato sauce which is about the 
thickness of strained honey. Bake for thirty minutes and 
serve with any good roast. If a small lump of butter is 
added to the boiling water in which any of the macaroni 
pastes are to be boiled, it will prevent them from sticking 
to the saucepan. 



SALADS 

Study should be given to the making of several kinds of 
salad dressings and to ascertaining with which kinds of food 
they best combine so as to be wholesome and digestible. 

Lettuce must be fresh, well washed, crisp and cold, and 
wiped dry before it is used, so that water will not thin 
the dressing. Celery should be white and crisp, onions, 
shalots, leeks, garUc, and chives must be fresh and ready at 
hand if needed. The best olive, walnut, or peanut oil that 
can be purchased or the best butter to melt should alone 
be used in dressings. 

Fruit salads, always appealing, are doubly so when spring 
brings the fruits in variety. All juicy fruits prepared for 
salads should be placed in a little white enamel strainer over 
a bowl while they are chilling so that when the salad is 
prepared the juices may not thin the dressing. The fruit 
juices may always be used with carbonated water for a cold 
drink, or made up as a pudding sauce. 

Salad garnishes are in wide assortment, with all of the 
different lettuces, chives, onions, cucumbers, and tomatoes 
cut in fancy ways; cold cut vegetables; red beet leaves to 
mix with the lettuces; radishes, red and green peppers, 
fresh olives, green almonds, pickled corn, fish pastes, oHves, 
pepper, and cold boiled egg rings, cockscombs, kidneys, and 
fancy bottled hors-d'oeuvres that come in variety. All 
these are aids to the salad garnisher. Egg pond-Uhes and 
tomato roses and baskets must not be overlooked. 

With the use of proper sauces, cold fish and shellfish 
may be utiUzed in making salads. Fish salads are httle 
used, because people do not understand adding ingredients 

324 



Salads 325 

which lighten them sufficiently to make them acceptable, 
or they put on dressings which soak into and separate the 
fiber so as to make the whole salad seem unpalatable. 

Fish to be used for salads must be very fresh and cooked 
only until they are done, not until they are soft. They 
must be drained carefully, cooked qtiickly, and prepared 
just before they are needed, with the dressing added, just 
as the salad goes to the table. Fish salads should never 
be allowed to stand after being dressed. 

In springtime one's thoughts naturally turn to the fresh 
growing green things for salad use instead of the heavier 
combinations used dtiring the winter. Freshly plucked 
watercress and young dandelion are the first real outdoor 
salad material grown according to nature and not cultivated 
by man. Then early lettuces, upland cress, romaine, field 
lettuce, chicory, peppergrass, and a number of others 
familiar in different localities are much sought after for 
the salad dish. 

Scissors are useful for cutting fruits, green pepper rings, 
dough for biscuit, the wings and sinews of fowls, the string 
and thread used in trussing, the centers out of grapefruit, 
toast fingers and a dozen other things for which a knife is 
useless. It is difficult for a cook to get along without 
them. 

They should be kept clean and bright and hanging on a 
convenient nail, near the string bag. 

Chapon 

The chapon is a slice of bread stuck with four garlic 
buds, four cloves, and slightly moistened with tarragon 
vinegar. It is laid in the salad bowl under the salad to 
flavor it. 

FISH SALADS 

Oyster Salad 

Select one quart of solid oysters, and when their liquor 
comes to a boil add the oysters. When they boil up once 



326 Salads 

remove the oysters, drain and cool. Take three egg yolks, 
half a cup of butter, a quarter cup of sugar, half a cup of 
vinegar and a tablespoon of dry mustard. Stir the ingredi- 
ents over the fire until the eggs begin to thicken, then 
remove from the fire but keep stirring for two minutes or 
until the mixture is thoroughly smooth. Shred the hearts 
of two heads of white lettuce and mix one cup of finely 
chopped celery with the oysters. When the dressing is 
cold lay up the salad and garnish with olives and a little 
chopped red pepper. If the oysters are large they may be 
cut through once or twice. This will serve six people. 

Scallop Salad 

Drain and dry one quart of large scallops, dip in beaten 
egg, and roll them in fine cracker crumbs, to which add a 
tablespoon heaped up of grated English cheese, a salt- 
spoon of pepper, and a half teaspoon of salt. Drop singly 
into hot fat. When a delicate brown lift and drain on 
blotting paper. After they have become cold, serve on 
lettuce leaves or in very thin patty shells covered with 
tartare sauce and garnish with watercress. This wiU serve 
six people. 

Codfish Tongue Salad 

AUow one codfish tongue to each portion. Wash 
and put them on in cold water, adding a bunch of savory 
herbs, a stalk of celery, an onion, a clove, a saltspoon each 
of pepper and salt, and a tablespoon of vinegar. When 
they reach the boiling point allow them to boil ten minutes, 
throw them into cold water, skin and trim and place on 
ice to chill. When chilled slice them thin and allow them 
to marinate in French dressing twenty minutes. Add 
one cup of chopped cucumber and mayonnaise made with 
mustard, toss the salad lightly, nest in white lettuce leaves, 
garnishing with cress and capers ; serve small beaten biscuits 
with the salad. This will serve four people. 



Salads 327 

Frogs' Legs Salad 

Parboil frogs' legs until tender; one dozen will yield two 
cups of meat when picked from the bones. Add to them one 
chopped red pepper and a half cup of chopped celery ; sprinkle 
with a little salt and mignonette pepper. Parboil a quarter 
pound of calf's liver; when done, chop finely and add it to 
one glass of melted apple jelly; add a dash of red pepper, 
juice of half a lemon; when cool turn over the salad, chill 
well, and serve in lettuce leaves garnished with olives and 
pimentos. Will be sufficient for four people. 

Shad Roe Salad 

Boil two large shad's roes in salt water. Be careful not 
to boil them so that they break in pieces. When done, 
drain and cool. As soon as cold, cut into slices, dust with 
salt and pepper, juice of a lemon, tarragon vinegar, and 
juice of an onion; let stand three hours. A half bud of 
garlic will improve the flavor, if garlic is liked. Drain and 
lay on white lettuce leaves, cover with mayonnaise with 
a dash of paprika in it and garnish with watercress. Will 
serve six people. 

Baked Lobster Salad 

For the salad take the meat of one boiled lobster weighing 
two and a half pounds, shred as finely as possible, add a half 
cup of bread crumbs, a tablespoon of chopped walnuts, 
one beaten egg, two tablespoons of melted butter, and a 
tablespoon of cream. Form the mixture into miniature 
croquettes the size of large queen olives, roll in egg and very 
fine crumbs, put on buttered baking pan, and bake in the 
oven to a delicate brown, basting with a teaspoon of 
melted butter and a tablespoon of sherry. When cool 
serve on lettuce leaves with heavy mayonnaise, garnished 
with olive rings and lobster coral. Will serve four people. 



328 Salads 

Mussel Salad 

Either steam the mussels fresh, or the spiced mussels in 
bottles may be used. If the latter are chosen, drain them 
carefully and put them to marinate in French dressing. 
When ready to lay up the salad, drain the mussels and add 
to them a cup of finely chopped celery, a finely chopped 
red pepper, and a heart of lettuce cut up fine with the scis- 
sors. Toss the salad in light mayonnaise and serve it 
garnished with white egg rings and olives. This will serve 
four people. 

Chicken Halibut Salad with Fresh Tomatoes 

Cut three pounds of chicken halibut in one-inch slices 
and cook them in a court bouillon made of two quarts of 
cold water, one carrot, two onions, half a wineglass of vine- 
gar, and season to taste with thyme, bay leaves, parsley 
root, salt, and pepper. Boil the bouillon thirty nainutes, 
then allow it to cool before putting the fish into it. Cook 
at boiling point ten minutes, then remove from the fire, 
and chill on the ice. Make a dressing of one soup- 
spoon of French mustard, one spoon of tarragon vinegar, 
three spoons of olive oil, one-half teaspoon of salt, one- 
half teaspoon of chervil and chives, and pepper to taste. 
Put a slice of chilled fish on a slice of tomato and add the 
dressing. Garnish the salad with olives and cold boiled 
egg stars. This will serve eight people. 

Snapper Salad 

Carefully flake a pound and a half of cold boiled red 
snapper and add to it one cup of chopped celery, six olives 
and three gherkins chopped fine, and three tablespoons 6f 
French dressing to which the juice of an onion has been 
added. Cut the white centers from two heads of chicory, 
wash, cut into small pieces and toss with the salad. Add 
sufficient heavy mayonnaise to mix the salad thoroughly 



Salads 329 

and serve in white lettuce leaves garnished with capers 
that have been washed in ice water, and a little chopped red 
pepper and olives, the green and red garnish being especially- 
decorative with the brilliant colored fish. This will serve 
foiir people. 

Shad and Pineapple Salad 

To two cups of boned and flaked cold boiled or broiled 
shad, add three quarters of a cup of chopped celery, one 
cup of chopped, drained pineapple, a saltspoon of pepper 
and a half teaspoon of salt, and one tablespoon of chutney 
syrup added to two tablespoons of French dressing. Toss all 
together. Add the heart of one white head of lettuce cut in 
ribbons, apid serve on green lettuce leaves with a tablespoon 
of mayonnaise on top of each salad portion and garnish 
with a little ear of pickled French corn. This will serve 
four people. 

Crab and Fresh Olive Salad 

Add to one pound of flaked crab meat one cup of finely 
chopped celery, one cup of seeded and chopped fresh ripe 
olives, one finely chopped gherkin, and a small red pepper 
cut into ribbons. Toss the salad with three tablespoons 
of French dressing made with walnut oil, serve in white 
lettuce leaves with a tablespoon of mayonaise, made also 
with walnut oil, on each portion, with one pitted ripe olive 
in the center. This will serve four people. 

MEAT AND GAME SALADS 

Russian Salad 

Take one cup of chopped cold boiled tongue and add a 
half cup of chopped cabbage, half a cup of chopped celery, 
three chopped peppers, and one thinly sliced or chopped 
Spanish onion. To one cup of mayonnaise, add enough 
ketchup to color the dressing a light pink, then add two gher- 



330 Salads 

kins, one pepper, two shalots, three olives chopped fine, 
and three sardines that have been flaked with a silver fork. 
Toss the salad lightly and put one hard-boiled egg through 
the ricer over the top, as a garnish. This will serve six 
people. 

Swiss Chicken Salad 

Prepare the chicken in the usual way, add a cup of chopped 
celery, quarter of a cup of ground nuts, and a can of French 
peas drained. Mix the salad with a dressing made of 
one cup of sour cream, the juice of half a lemon, two tea- 
spoons of vinegar, one of sugar, a half saltspoon of pepper, 
and a saltspoon of salt. Serve in lettuce with red beet 
leaves and nasturtium blossoms for garnish. This will 
serve four people. 

Chicken Salad Pie 

For the chicken salad pie make a large shell of good pie 
crust, rolled rather thin and baked over a well-buttered, 
inverted, deep, jelly layer tin. Prepare a good chicken 
salad in the usual way — white meat, chopped celery, hearts 
of two heads of chicory cut fine, and a small white heart of 
lettuce cut into ribbons. Toss all lightly in good mayon- 
naise, to which the juice of half an onion and a half cup of 
whipped cream have been added. Fill the pie shell with 
the salad, heaped up, and garnish it with olives in red 
pepper rings and a hard-boiled egg cut down into eight 
quarter-shaped pieces and laid open in the center like a 
flower with a httle heap of finely chopped red pepper in the 
center. To eat with the salad, powder a few triscuits 
with grated cheese and a dusting of red pepper, heat them 
in the oven until the cheese melts and then serve. This 
wiU serve six people. 

Veal Salad 

Take a cup and a half of finely minced cold veal, add 
some finely chopped celery and cut lettuce. Season highly 



Salads 331 

and mix well with a heavy mayonnaise. Cold lamb may 
be used in the same way in an emergency. 

Baked Sweetbread Salad 

Parboil and blanch a good pair of fresh sweetbreads. 
When cold, split and thickly spread with a mixture of 
chopped olives, nuts, yolk of hard-boiled egg, and a green 
pepper after removing the seeds, butter, and a dusting of 
cracker crumbs, all worked to a paste. Spread the paste 
on the sweetbreads, tie the halves together with the kitchen 
tape, sprinkle with pepper, salt, and a little melted butter. 
Bake a delicate brown in a hot oven, and when cold slice 
in thick slices and arrange them on lettuce leaves, serving 
with mayonnaise dressing. Will serve four people. 

Austrian Pigeon Salad 

Cut the meat from two boiled pigeons, add to it one 
cup of finely chopped celery, three quarters of a cup of 
finely chopped walnuts, add the crumbs of six stale maca- 
roons, one very finely chopped red pepper with six finely 
chopped olives, and to the heavy mayonnaise add a teaspoon 
of fresh fennel seed and a tablespoon of whipped cream. 
Toss the salad lightly in the dressing, wipe the inside of the 
salad bowl with a bud of garlic, then line it with white 
lettuce leaves and lay up the salad, garnishing the top of 
it with quarters of deviled egg. Will serve six people. 

Duck and Orange Salad 

Take a cold roast duck and dice enough meat to make two 
cups, pare two firm juicy oranges, dice the flesh and put 
it in to chill, and drain in a small white enamel sieve. 
Shred a small head of white lettuce, chop celery enough to 
make a half cup. When ready to serve toss the' ingredients 
in three tablespoons of French dressing, then add heavy 
mayonnaise made with mustard, garnish with olives stuffed 



332 Salads 

with celery and chopped red peppers. Will serve four 
people. 

Salad Puffs 

• RoU good puflE paste thin and cut pieces four inches wide 
by eight inches long; roll, stuff the roU with soft paper to 
keep its shape, and seal with white of egg. Bake a delicate 
brown. When cold pull out the paper, fiU with finely 
chopped and rich chicken salad, dipping the end in whipped 
cream, then into powdered nuts. Serve two, tied with 
narrow white satin ribbon on a lace paper doily, to each 
guest. 

Squab Salad 

Parboil six squabs and a pair of sweetbreads. When the 
birds are done and cold, strip the meat from the bones and 
dice it. Add to it the diced sweetbreads, one cup of chopped 
celery, one half cup chopped pecan nuts, the white hearts of 
two heads of chicory cut fine, one hard-boiled egg chopped, 
and a half cup of olive rings. Add to the mayonnaise a 
tablespoon of chutney syrup and a dash of cayenne pepper. 
Mix the salad well and serve in deep lettuce leaves. 

VEGETABLE SALADS 

The usual weU-known salad combinations of vegetables 
that have been boiled and diced, lettuces^ cucumbers, toma- 
toes, and the usual salad ingredients have been omitted. 
The following recipes are unusual enough to be worth 
considering. 

Barbe de Capucin 

There are three varieties of the barbe to be found in our 
markets (perhaps it is better known to most of us as 
"chicory" ; in some locahties it is "goat's beard" or monk's 
beard"), but they all belong to the endive family. Barbe 



Salads 333 

is the pale green variety, blanched is the white loosely 
curled, and witloof is the pinkish curied solid heads. 

Endive in salad may be dressed with a French dressing 
made with horse-radish or beet vinegar, or may be stuffed 
with Roquefort cheese and have a French dressing, to 
which a half cup of grated pineapple has been added. Or 
one may add to the French dressing a tablespoon of Manda- 
lay sauce, a tablespoon of East India chutney sauce, or a 
teaspoon of preserved sweet mixed pickles. Any of the 
mayonnaise sauces prepared or plain do not go as well 
with this bitter salad as the thinner sauces do. 

Stuffed Endive Salad 

Take firm, crisp stalks of endive, force open the leaves 
and fill them with a mixture of Roquefort and cream cheese, 
blended together with a little heavy French dressing. 
Fold the leaves back in place and serve on lettuce. Garnish 
with pimento olives. 

Romaine Salad 

After careful washing, cut the romaine for the salad into 
strips with the kitchen scissors, and cut the peppers also 
in very thin strips. Before making the French dressing 
wipe the inside of the bowl with a bud of garlic. Do not 
dress the salad until just before it is served, so that it will 
be light and crisp. Cheese wafers or crackers and cheese 
will be nice with the salad. 

New Potato Salad 

Boil eight medium-sized potatoes; w;hen done and cold, 
pare them and cut them into slices or dice them. Let the 
potatoes marinate for twenty minutes in heavy French 
dressing to which have been added a bud of garlic and the 
juice of four onions. Have ready a rather thin mayon- 
naise, to which add one finely chopped cucumber from which 



334 Salads 

the seeds have been removed, a small stalk of celery, one 
red pepper, and three olives also chopped fine. Line the 
salad bowl with lettuce leaves, drain the potatoes, then toss 
all in the mayonnaise, turn into the salad bowl, and garnish 
with quarters of hard-boiled eggs and strips of red pepper. 
The French dressing drained from the potatoes may be 
used again for another salad. This wUl serve six people. 

Catiliflower Bouquet 

Select one large perfect cauliflower and boil until tender, 
but not soft enough to break; drain it and set it to cool. 
Arrange in the salad bowl a lining of well-washed red and 
green beet leaves; place the cauliflower in the center; cover 
with remolade dressing made of one beaten raw egg, a 
teaspoon of mixed mustard, three tablespoons of olive oil, 
a tablespoon of vinegar, and a teaspoon of chutney syrup. 
Garnish with Httle carrot roses that have been marinated in 
lemon juice and sugar for half an hour, and put in the 
center of each a little bit of chopped red pepper. This will 
serve six people. 

Cranbeny Salad 

Stew one pint of large cranberries in as Httle water as 
possible and, when done, sweeten with a cup of sugar 
and let them get cold. Add to them one cup of chopped 
nut meats and a cup each of chopped celery and apple. 
Add the juice of half an orange and half a lemon, and fold 
in a small quantity of mayonnaise made without mustard. 
Crackers and cheese are nice with this salad. This will 
serve six people. 

Hot Beet Salad 

Boil enough medium-sized beets to allow one to a portion. 
When done and skinned, hollow out the centers, leaving a 
deep cup, and set them in a steamer to keep hot. Chop 



Salads 335 

the beet pieces with two peppers, two gherkins, two table- 
spoons of pine nuts, and a teaspoon of pickled nasturtium 
seeds. Make the same sauce as for the cabbage salad, 
adding, when done, a tablespoon of chopped chutney sweet 
pickle. Add to the sauce the chopped ingredients that 
are left after filling the beet cups and turn it hot over the 
beets. Serve tiny finger rolls with this salad. 

Pakchoi, Chinese Salad 

Take one head of Chinese cabbage salad, wash, break it 
apart, and cut it into pieces with the kitchen scissors. 
Take one bunch of pakchoi (mustard vegetable), wash, 
cut the leaves with the salad, chop one red pepper and one 
onion very fine and add them to the salad. Take two slices 
of pickled pork, dice and fry a delicate brown, but do not fry 
to a crisp; drain, cool, and add the squares to the other salad 
ingredients. Make a thin mustard mayonnaise, adding to 
it a tablespoon of fat from the pork; also add a table- 
spoon of ginger syrup, toss the salad lightly with the sauce, 
and serve with crackers made of rice flour. This will 
serve six people. 

Fried Salad 

This very odd salad, which is of Bohemian origin, is 
excellent to serve with a game dinner. Remove all the 
green leaves from a white head of cauliflower; wash thor- 
oughly, then let it boil in salted water until tender though 
firm. Drain, and when cold slice in medium slices, dip in 
egg, dust with very fine cracker crumbs, and fry in butter. 
Drain and cool, dnd when cold lay the slices on white 
lettuce leaves and turn over them a sour cream dressing. 
The dressing is made of one gill of sour cream, the juice 
of half a lemon, and two teaspoons of sugar. Garnish each 
portion with a small sweet pickled, yellow tomato. Will 
serve six people. 



336 Salads 

Fenuchi Salad 

The Italians eat fenuchi as we do celery and the tops they 
boil with meat. Fenuchi makes an excellent salad cut fine 
with diced pineapple; dress with heavy mayonnaise and 
serve on white lettuce leaves. Just before adding the 
mayonnaise add a heaping tablespoon of whipped cream 
and a tablespoon of good sherry. Serve cheese straws with 
the salad. One bunch of fenuchi will serve four people. 

Fennel Seed Salad 

Wash carefully two tablespoons of fresh fennel seed 
and then marinate them in French dressing that has been 
highly seasoned and has a saltspoon of mignonette pepper 
added to it. Line the salad bowl with dark green lettuce 
leaves. Cut the hearts of two heads of romaine and the 
white centers from two heads of chicory, cut them up into 
pieces with the kitchen scissors, wash, and drain. Dice the 
flesh of one large or two small alligator pears; mix the salad, 
turning the fennel sauce over it. Serve garnished with the 
following: Take the yolks of three hard-boiled eggs, soften 
them to a paste with the juice of an onion, a half saltspoon 
of pepper, a saltspoon of salt, a dessertspoon of very finely 
chopped pecan nut meats, and a little French dressing. Add 
a teaspoon of anchovy paste, mix thoroughly, then mold into 
balls. Halve and stone enough large olives to press one- 
half on either side of each egglet; dice the white of one of 
the eggs and heap it in the center of the salad, dusting it 
with paprika; lay the egglets around the edge. This will 
serve six people. 

Baked Bean Salad 

Take two cups of cold baked beans and a half cup of 
the lean pork diced that has been baked with the beans. 
Mix two tablespoons of olive oil, one tablespoon of vinegar, 
the juice of an onion, a saltspoon of salt, a half saltspoon of 



Salads 337 

red pepper, two tablespoons of tomato ketchup, a tablespoon 
of sugar, and two tablespoons of mustard sauce. Beat all 
well together, add one cup of finely chopped celery and 
after the salad is carefully mixed serve on lettuce leaves 
withjarown bread toast fingers. 

Tansy Salad 

Select a large, heavy grapefruit, separate the flesh from 
the bitter skin in as large segments as possible, then set 
away in the strainer to chiU. Line the salad bowl with 
green lettuce leaves : then cut into pieces one head of lettuce 
or romaine; add the grapefruit and sprinkle over it a heaping 
tablespoon of finely chopped tansy; turn over French dress- 
ing and garnish with white hard-boiled egg rings with an 
olive curl in the center of each, the curl being lightly spread 
with anchovy paste. This will serve four people. 

Truffle Salad 

Take one third artichoke bottoms, cut the size and thick- 
ness of a nickel, one third black truffles, cut in thin round 
slices like the artighokes, and one third asparagus tips cut 
about three quarters of an inch long; mix together and 
season with French dressing and a little mustard. Serve 
in lettuce leaves, garnished with pimento olives. Another 
way to arrange this salad is to line the salad bowl with 
lettuce leaves, place the truffles in the center, arranging 
alternate bouquets of the asparagus tips and artichokes 
around the edge, ttiming the dressing over all. 

EGG, NUT, AND CHEESE SALADS 
Cream Cheese with Macedoine Vegetables 

A tablespoon of finely chopped pimento, of green pepper, 
and of olives is the right proportion for a ten-cent square of 
cream cheese. Moisten with a little French dressing and 



33^ Salads 

pack in after-dinner coffee cups. This makes a pretty- 
sized slice when turned out, cut, and served on lettuce 
leaves. This amount will serve four people. 

Endive and Roquefort Cheese Salad 

In making the salad, after washing the endive, loosen 
the center leaves and stuff with Roquefort cheese which has 
been mashed soft, with a Uttle French dressing. Serve 
sliced down on dark green lettuce leaves with French dress- 
ing and toasted water crackers. One pound of endive will 
serve four people. 

Deviled Salad Balls 

Take the yolks of four hard-boiled eggs and devil them, 
with a saltspoon of salt, the same amount of pepper, table- 
spoon of olive oil, a dessertspoon of Worcestershire sauce, to 
form the paste, then form into little balls ; roll in powdered 
nuts and drop into the salad among the leaves. Cover 
with mayonnaise. 

Extra mayonnaise may be placed in the center of the 
salad in a half-lemon skin, having a slice cut from the 
bottom, so that it will stand upright. 

Pineapple and Cheese Salad 

For the salad pare and dice one large pineapple. Add 
to it half a cup of chopped celery, and the white center of a 
headof chicory cutup fine. Take a package of cream cheese 
and a piece of Roquefort cheese about the same size, add 
a saltspoon of salt, half saltspoon of red pepper, a table- 
spoon of finely chopped pecan nuts, the juice of a small 
onion, and enough cream added very slowly to make a 
molding paste. Fashion into balls the size of a marble, 
line the salad dish with dark green lettuce leaves. Drain 
the fruit, cover with heavy mayonnaise, and garnish the 
top with green pickled cherries and the cheese balls. 



Salads 339 

Frozen Cheese Salad 

This frozen salad is good to serve to break a heavy dinner, 
instead of an ice or frozen punch. 

To make it beat one package of cream cheese with a 
quarter of a cup of sweet cream, six finely chopped raisins, a 
saltspoon of salt, a half saltspoon of paprika, a saltspoon of 
sugar, a tablespoon of sherry, and a teaspoon of powdered 
pecans. Mix well, turn into a freezer, but do not freeze 
hard. Remove in time to mold, then pack in ice until 
ready to serve, when it is to be sliced onto lettuce leaves 
and covered with mayonnaise made without mustard. 
This will serve four people. 

Bird's Nest Salad 

Take as many hearts of white lettuce as there are portions 
to be served, wash, and with kitchen scissors hollow out the 
centers by snipping out two or three of the leaves. Mix 
to a paste a package of cream cheese and the same weight 
in Roquefort, the juice of an onion, one red pepper, four 
olives, and a quarter cup of pecan nut meats chopped fine, 
a tablespoon of chutney syrup, a saltspoon of mignonette 
pepper, and enough sweet cream to make the paste soft 
enough to mold. When ready mold into eggs the size 
of marbles, put six in each nest on a little of the lettuce 
shredded, and send to table with a tureen of Russian dress- 
ing made of mayonnaise, to which add enough tomato 
ketchup to color it a delicate pink, add juice of an onion, a 
teaspoon of chopped red and green pepper, and a finely 
minced shalot. 

Fresh Olive Salad 

Take one can of ripe olives, drain, halve, and seed, add 
half a cup of chopped celery, half a cup of chopped walnuts, 
a half red pepper, two tablespoons of grated pineapple. 
Mix well with three tablespoons of French dressing, serve 



340 Salads 

in white lettuce leaves with a tablespoon of mayonnaise on 
each portion, in the center of which place one stoned olive. 
This will serve four people. 

Litchi Salad 

The litchi nuts, ripe and bottled, come from the Island 
of Madagascar and are about the size of a large olive. 
They are wrinkled like a preserved fruit and are a pinkish 
fawn in color. Their pits are edible and add a good flavor 
to the salad. They must be drained and then may be cut 
in half. Add a half cup of chopped celery, some shredded 
white lettuce, and dress the salad with Madagascar sauce. 
This is a very rich mayonnaise with heart of palm chopped 
through it. A pint bottle of the nuts will serve four people. 

Bonbon Salad 

Shape small sized balls of new pimento cheese and roll 
them in finely ground pecan nuts, press a half white grape 
on either side of the cheese. Allow six to a portion ar- 
ranged on white lettuceleaves, and cover with heavy mayon- 
naise, to which a little whipped cream has been added just 
before serving. 

A New Egg Salad 

Boil six fresh eggs until hard; peel them after they are 
cold, and cut each into six melon shaped pieces. Chop 
enough celery to make one cup, cut small the white centers 
of two heads of chicory, grate one onion and one cucumber 
after removing the seeds ; mix all in the salad bowl and toss 
in mayonnaise that is sHghtly thinned by the addition of a 
tablespoon of chutney syrup and a tablespoon of whipped 
cream. Serve on lettuce leaves and garnish with a little 
chopped red pepper. This salad will be sufficient for four 
people and is good with cold meat for luncheon. 



Salads 341 

Hazelnut Salad 

Shell and blanch one pound of hazelnuts and grind half 
of them fine in a grinder. Grate half of a pineapple, 
mix with the nuts and a tablespoonful of sherry, juice 
of half a lemon, and a tablespoon of powdered sugar. 
Let stand one hour, then drain and add a package of cream 
cheese, mix to a paste, then make into balls with a whole 
nut in the center of each, pile on white lettuce leaves, and 
cover with mayonnaise. This will serve four people. 

Salade au Nid 

Boil eight fresh eggs hard. When cold cut lengthwise 
and remove the yolks, then cut the whites into strips. 
Mash the yolks to a paste with a tablespoon of olive oil, 
juice of an onion, teaspoon Worcestershire sauce, and six 
finely chopped pimento ohves. Have boiled until tender 
and finely chopped one sUce of calf's liver; add to this a 
small package of cream cheese, a teaspoon of sugar, a salt- 
spoon of pepper, a saltspoon of salt, and enough sweet 
cream to make a paste; blend it with the egg paste and 
form into balls. Form a nest of the white strips on white 
lettuce leaves and allow five or six of the cheese balls to each 
portion. Before serving cover each portion with mayon- 
naise and garnish with a single spray of watercress. 

THE MAKING OF CANNED SALADS 

If unexpected company arrives just at the dinner hour, 
and one wishes to add a salad to the dinner already planned, 
why not make use of canned salad material? Living a 
little distance from the grocer's shop is sometimes as unfor- 
tunate as being a mile away; the housekeeper will see to it 
that a few cans of available salad material are always at 
hand. A bottle of macidoine vegetables, salmon, sardines, 
artichoke hearts, olives, gherkin pickles, chow-chow, 



342 Salads 

pickled onions, pickled beets, a bottle of pickled lambs* 
tongues, tunny fish, herring roe in oil, game pS.t6, canned 
breast of chicken, derby tongue, string beans, asparagus 
tips — these are a few of the many canned things that lend 
themselves acceptably to the salad course. 

Salad vinegars and oils are generally on hand, as are other 
every-day condiments, and there is usually a supply of 
eggs that may be boiled to make a salad, while the roast is 
being eaten. Celery and lettuce are often an uncertain 
quantity, so sometimes substitutes must take their place. 
If the housewife has been thoughtful enough to can some 
fruit in a-light syrup, this may also be used for a fruit salad. 
Pineapple, pear, and peach are the most useful fruits. 

Spanish peppers, put up in oil, one should always have 
ready on the shelf, for they are useful in many ways, and 
fresh ones are not always easy to get in winter. French 
chestnuts are put up especially for salad use, and are un- 
sweetened; these are excellent with grapefruit. Now and 
then a hot salad is a novelty, and is acceptable if it has 
not been preceded by too hearty a menu. The following 
recipes are good ones with which to experiment. 

Celery and lettuces have been left out of these recipes, 
for they are often dif3&cult to get but, of course, if they are 
at hand, they may be used in the various salads where they 
generally appear. Cheeses have also been left out for the 
same reason. 

Grapefruit Salad 

If fortunate enough to have a couple of grapefruit on 
hand, a cup of bottled French chestnuts may be chopped 
and added to the pulp, with a few sliced truffles and a 
dressing made of two parts walnut oil, one part tarragon 
vinegar, a half saltspoon of pepper, a saltspoon of salt, and 
a dessertspoon of vanilla syrup beaten thoroughly. This 
makes a delightful salad, and cheese straws are served 
with it. This will serve four people. 



Salads 343 

Hot, Canned Corn Salad 

Take a can of corn and stew it in a little milk, adding 
two teaspoons of butter, a saltspoon of pepper, a half tea- 
spoon of salt, and a dessertspoon of sugar by way of season- 
ing. Add a half cup of flaked cold boiled codfish and two 
chopped Spanish peppers. When hot, drain the salad 
and fold in a cup of heavy mayonnaise; serve the salad on 
thin slices of brown bread, Ughtly spread with anchovy 
paste. The salad must be served as quickly as possible so 
as to retain its heat. This will serve four people plentifully. 

Artichoke Salad 

Six artichoke hearts come in one can. Drain the hearts 
and with a teaspoon hollow out the centers. The centers 
may then be filled with almost any sort of mixture that can 
be made in a hurry. Say, for instance, a sardine com- 
bination. Skin, bone, and break twelve sardines, adding to 
them a chopped pepper, two chopped gherkins, six pickled 
onions, a saltspoon of pepper, half teaspoon of salt, a table- 
spoon . of chutney syrup, and enough French dressing to 
moisten the filHng. Again, chopped vegetables, folded in 
mayonnaise make a good filling. " Otero " relish or " heart 
of palm"reUsh,both intended for canap6, can be used in this 
way and are complete without the addition of any extra 
sauce. 

Hot Cabbage Salad 

Select one medium-sized cabbage, strip off the outside 
leaves, and cut out the hard core. Shave or slice the 
cabbage very thin; then cover with a cloth to keep it from 
drying out until ready to use. Put into a saucepan a half 
cup of sugar, a dessertspoon of dry mustard, a teaspoon 
of salt, a saltspoon of cayeiine, a heaping tablespoon of 
butter, a tablespoon of onion juice, one beaten egg, a quarter 
cup of tarragon vinegar, and a half cup of cider vinegar. 



344 Salads 

Stir all well together and let it slowly come to the boiling 
point; boil up once, then set back and add three Spanish 
peppers and eight stoned olives chopped very fine. Slowly 
add the cabbage, a handful at a time. Keep stirring until 
it all melts down smooth and rich, then draw on to the fire 
to heat a minute or two. If it is too moist, drain, and 
serve with a pimento olive on top of each portion. Serve 
cheese crackers with the salad. This will serve six people. 

Lamb's Tongue and Asparagus Salad 

Take a pint jar of the lamb's tongues, drain, and chop 
them fine. Add a half saltspoon of pepper, a saltspoon of 
salt, one minced pepper, one can asparagus tips cut small, 
two hard-boiled eggs chopped fine, and a tablespoon of 
washed capers. Use a light mayonnaise or a heavy French 
dressing. This will serve six people. 

Shrimp and Potato Salad 

Take one can of shrimps and break them into small 
pieces. Add to them two cups of cold boiled potato finely 
diced, a tablespoon of drained and rinsed capers, one 
Spanish onion finely minced, and one hard-boiled egg put 
through the ricer. Make the same dressing- that was given 
for the hot cabbage salad, after allowing it to cool; or, a 
sweet cream dressing, made of one small cup of cream, 
a saltspoon of pepper, a half teaspoon of salt, two table- 
spoons of sugar, and three tablespoons of tarragon vinegar. 
Toss lightly in the dressing and let stand for a half hour to 
season through before serving, if that much time may be 
spared. The shrimps add an unusual flavor and a hearti- 
ness that help out a small dinner most satisfactorily. This 
serves six people. 

Bottled Breast of Chicken Salad 

One pint bottle holds enough chicken breast to make a 
salad for four people. Drain carefully and cut or chop the 



Salads 345 

chicken in pieces, as desired. Wash and add to it a heaping 
tablespoon of capers, six sliced truffles, two hard-boiled eggs 
chopped, and two gherkin pickles very thinly sUced;then 
fold in mayonnaise that has had a teaspoon of onion juice 
added to it. Or take a can of pineapple, drain and chop it 
fine; add the white of two hard-boiled eggs chopped fine, six 
sliced truffles, and one minced pepper. Fold in mayonnaise 
to which has been added a heaping spoon of whipped cream. 
The egg and the whipped cream are added to lighten the 
salad, in place of the usual celery. 

Cardoon Salad 

The salad made of cardoons is rather unusual. These 
French thistles should be drained from the can and allowed 
to marinate for a half hour in French dressing to which a 
little onion juice has been added. Drain, add good mayon- 
naise, and lay on white lettuce leaves garnished with the 
sweet pickled cucumber rings that come in bottles for the 
purpose. Toasted whole wheat crackers with melted 
cheese on them go nicely with this salad. This will serve 
four people. 

JELLIED SALADS 

Tomato Jelly 

Take one can of tomatoes, add to it three cups of water, a 
sUced onion, a bay leaf, a teaspoon of salt, a tablespoon of 
.sugar, a bunch of savory herbs, a teaspoon of pepper, and 
three heaping tablespoons of gelatine. Beat over the fire 
until it begins to boil, allow it to boil for five minutes and 
add the whites and shells of two eggs. Beat all well to- 
gether and remove from the fire, letting it stand tightly 
covered for five minutes. Strain through a fine sieve, 
then through a piece of cheesecloth that has been wrung 
out of cold water, and finally into a ring mold that has 
been wet with cold water. When cold and beginning to set. 



34^ Salads 

press into the jelly stoned olives and the whites of three 
hard-boiled eggs cut into cubes. Make a bed of fresh 
lettuce leaves, tvirn the jelly ring upon it and fill the center 
with lettuce leaves cut to ribbons, a half a cup of chopped 
celery, a half cup of ground walnut meats, the yolks of the 
hard-boiled eggs put through a ricer, and cover the whole 
with good mayonnaise. This is sufficient for six people. 

Jellied Chicken Salad 

Prepare and boil one good tender chicken. When done and 
cool, cut the meat into small pieces, put the skin and bones 
into a saucepan with one quart of the hquor it was boiled in 
and one sliced onion, a bunch of savory herbs, a tablespoon 
of Worcestershire sauce, a tablespoon of chutney sjnnip, 
a half saltspoon of pepper, and a saltspoon of salt. Simmer 
until reduced nearly one half, then add one heaping table- 
spoon of gelatine that has been dissolved in hot water. Ar- 
range a layer of the chicken (first dipping each piece in may- 
onnaise) in a wet mold, then a layer of sliced hard-boiled 
eggs, then a layer of halved button mushrooms that have 
been sautdd in butter and drained; then chicken, egg, and 
mushrooms until the chicken is used up. Strain over it the 
cooked liquor and set away to chill. When ready to serve 
turn on to a bed of lettuce leaves, garnish with stoned olives 
and a little chopped red pepper, slice down with a sharp 
knife, and cover each portion with heavy mayonnaise. This 
will serve six people. 

Cucumber Aspic 

Cucumber aspic is a salad jelly which is particularly 
nice and light to serve with a fairly heavy dinner. Pare and 
slice four large cucumbers and one onion, cover with one 
quart of cold water, season, and allow to simmer one hour. 
Soak a half package of gelatine in a little cold water, add to 
it a cup of cucumber liquid, stir until smooth, and pour 
into the cucumbers, which should be reduced by the cooking 



Salads 347 

one half. Turn into a wet mold and chill, and when 
thoroughly cold place on a bed of lettuce leaves. Serve 
one slice on lettuce with each portion, covered with mayon- 
naise and garnished with olive curls, and pimentos. This 
will serve six people. 

Nut and Cucumber Salad 

Boil in three cups of water two cups of sugar, twelve 
cloves, and add one cup of vinegar. When the mixture 
threads from the spoon, remove it from the fire and add 
two and a half heaping tablespoons of gelatine that has 
been dissolved in a Uttle boiling water. Stir carefully 
and when the gelatine is dissolved strain and let it cool. 
Add one cup of hickory nut meats and a cup of sweet cu- 
cumber pickle thinly sUced, pour into a wet mold, and let 
it chill and set. Turn out on a bed of lettuce leaves, pour 
mayonnaise over it, and garnish on top with strips of red 
pepper. This will serve six people. 

Jelly and Cheese Salad 

Dissolve one tablespoon of gelatine in one cup of hot 
water. When cool add three ounces of grated cheese, one 
cup of whipped cream, a saltspoon of salt, a half saltspoon of 
pepper, and paprika to taste. Pour into small molds and 
when the jelly begins to harden cover the top with grated 
cheese. Serve on crisp lettuce leaves with French dressing. 
This will serve four people. 

Dutch Salad 

Pare and dice enough white turnips to fill two big cups. 
Boil the squares in water until tender when pierced with a 
straw. Drain and set them to cool. Take one pint of 
highly seasoned tomato juice and add to it two tablespoons 
of powdered gelatine that has been dissolved in a little cold 
water; let it heat until the gelatine is all melted, then set 



348 Salads 

aside to cool. When cool, arrange the turnip squares in a 
wet mold and pour in a layer of the tomato; let that slightly 
stiffen, then add another layer of turnip, then the rest of the 
liquid. When ready to serve, cut the jelly with a sharp hot 
knife and serve on lettuce leaves, heaping mayonnaise 
on the top. Garnish with a radish rose in the center of 
each portion. This will serve six people. 

Shrimp Aspic Salad 

Take one can of shrimps or one pint of freshly boiled 
shrimps cut in pieces, sprinkle with the juice of a lemon, 
the juice of an onion, and a saltspoon of pepper, and let them 
stand until chilled. Have ready an aspic jelly ring made of 
one quart of chicken stock well seasoned, one tablespoon of 
lemon juice, a half teaspoon of celery salt, a half saltspoon 
of cayenne pepper, and one box of gelatine. When it is done 
and the gelatine is dissolved in it, strain and add green 
vegetable coloring until the desired color is obtained, then 
pour into a ring jelly mold. When ready turn on white 
lettuce leaves and drain the shrimps, adding to them one 
cup of finely chopped celery and one cup of chopped cucum- 
ber. Toss lightly in mayonnaise dressing and fill the 
center of the ring with the salad, adding a little more mayon- 
naise on top, and garnishing with green pepper strips and 
truffles. This will serve six people. 

FRUIT SALADS 
Peach Salad 

Plunge large, firm, ripe peaches enough to serve one as a 
portion into boiUng water; let them stand thus a minute 
until the skin begins to curl; then remove the skin, halve 
and stone the peaches and set them aside to chill. Halve 
and stone a few white grapes; add to them two tablespoons 
of grated pineapple, a tablespoon of finely chopped pecan 
nut meats, a teaspoon each of chopped angelica and candied 



Salads 349 

cherries. Pour over this mixture a dressing made of three 
quarters of a cup of sweet heavy cream, two tablespoons of 
sugar, a pinch of salt, a tablespoon of tarragon vinegar, a tea 
spoon of lemon juice, and mix all thoroughly. Lay the 
two halves of one peach in deep, curly white lettuce leaves 
and fill each half with the naixture, placing a teaspoon of 
whipped cream on top of each with a half cherry in the 
center. 

Fresh Rhubarb Salad 

Cut in small pieces enough rhubarb to mate five cups, 
turn boiling water over it, and let stand ten minutes; drain, 
add fresh boiUng water, boil until tender but not to pieces, 
add three quarters of a cup of sugar, and set away to cool. 
When cold, drain, add half a cup of chopped pecans, half a 
cup of finely-chopped celery. Have ready a boiled dressing 
made and chilled, using for it three tablespoons of fiour 
with enough water to make a thin batter, a quarter of a cup 
of vinegar, and three quarters of a cup of water, three 
tablespoons of sugar, one teaspoon of melted butter, the 
yolks of four eggs, the white of one, saltspoon each of dry 
mustard and salt, and half a cup of water. Mix well all 
together and cook in a double boiler until of the right thick- 
ness, stirring constantly. When cold, just before using 
add a little whipped cream, and serve in white lettuce leaves 
garmshed with strips of angelica. 

Cantaloupe Salad 

With a teaspoon cut away the inside of the melon and 
lay the little scooped-out pieces on ice, and chill the empty 
shells. Make some cream cheese balls with a few chopped 
nuts, a dash of sugar, and a tablespoon of sherry. When 
ready to serve put the pieces of melon and the cheese balls 
into the empty shells with lettuce cut into ribbons, and 
pour over it a dressing made as for the rhubarb salad. 



35° Salads 

Casaba Salad 

Take a casaba melon, now procurable at nearly all fruit 
stands, and cut it in half; scoop out the inside by teaspoons 
and place them on ice to chill. Make some cheese balls, 
adding a few chopped nuts, a dash of sugar, a tablespoon of 
preserved ginger chopped fine, and a tablespoon of sherry. 
When ready to serve fill the empty shells with the chilled 
melon pieces, the cheese balls, and lettuce cut into rib- 
bons; pour over all a dressing made in the same way as for 
rhubarb salad. 

Pnme Salad 

Take half a pound of fancy prunes, wash carefully, and 
let them soak in very warm water for half an hour. Re- 
move the stones, slice in thin slices, and marinate in the 
juice of a lemon, a teaspoon of powdered sugar, and a cordial 
glass of apricot cordial for about one hour. Chop fine four 
salted brazil nuts and one strip of angelica and mix with 
mayonnaise made without mustard. Drain the fruit, 
add to it one cup of finely chopped celery, cut in a heart 
of white lettuce, toss all lightly in the salad dressing. 
Serve on deep lettuce leaves garnished with green cherry 
rings, placing a diamond shaped cheese sandwich on the 
side of each portion. 

Japanese Salad 

This dainty salad is served at an exclusive Japanese club 
of New York, and adds another unusual salad to the already 
long list. Chop two tart apples and add to them one cup of 
chopped celery. Dust all with a saltspoon of pepper and a 
half teaspoon of salt, add six sliced trufiles, and a little 
finely chopped red pepper. Fold all in heavy mayonnaise 
and serve in lettuce leaves garnished with slices of preserved 
kumquats. 



Salads 351 

Strawberry and Raspberry 

Arrange as many halved ripe strawberries and ripe 
raspberries as would fill a sauce plate, chill them, and when 
ready to serve arrange in a small deep white cabbage leaf, 
carefully washed and dried, and cover with a dressing made 
of a half cup of sour cream, juice of half a small lemon, a 
few drops of tarragon, half a teaspoon of sugar, a saltspoon 
of salt, and a half saltspoon of pepper. 

Matron and Prune Salad 

Stew in the usual way a pound of large French prunes; 
when cold remove their stones and slip preserved marrons 
into their places, breaking the prune as little as possible. 
Mix the prunes with romaine that has been cut small, and 
just before serving dress the salad with a sour cream dressing 
made of one cup of sour cream, two tablespoons of sugar, 
a tablespoon of tarragon vinegar, and two of cider vinegar. 

Green Ahnond and Cantaloupe Salad 

Take three cantaloupes and scoop out the pulp with 
a teaspoon; take a cup of green almonds, slice thin or chop 
them and add to the melon; cut one heart of white lettuce 
with scissors and add one-half cup of chopped celery, serve 
in lettuce leaves after tossing in heavy French dressing, 
and garnish with strips of red pepper and olives stuffed 
with almonds. 

Frunut Salad 

Take a jar of " frunut," which is preserved fruits and nuts 
together, drain, and let marinate one hour in a cup of ginger 
syrup, a gill of brandy, a dash of orange bitters, a teaspoon 
mixed of cinnamon, nutmeg, and cloves. Drain thoroughly, 
fold in one pint of whipped cream, and serve in white lettuce 
leaves. 



352 Salads 

Tipsy Salad 

Take a half-jar of " Puncheezy, " put it in a white enamel 
strainer to drain until needed, prepare a grapefruit as for 
salad, and turn a wineglass of apricot brandy over it, with 
a saltspoon of nutmeg and a teaspoon of powdered sugar. 
When ready to dress the salad drain the juice from the 
fruit, mix the grapefruit and Puncheezy, and fill white 
lettuce leaves with the mixture, cover with mayonnaise 
made without mustard, to which some finely chopped 
English walnuts have been added. Serve at once, so that 
the fruit juices may not thin the salad dressing. 

Barberry Salad 

Gather perfect bunches of barberries, wash them carefully, 
remove the pips with a fine needle and let them marinate 
in French dressing for one hour. Remove the segments 
from one large, firm grapefruit, chill, and drain. When 
ready to lay up the salad take the hearts of white lettuce, 
break them up, and scatter over them the grapefruit pulp, 
then place the bunches of barberries on top. and turn over 
all a French dressing. Garnish with strips of red pepper. 

Banana Salad 

Take as many bananas as there are to be portions. Slice 
of3E lengthwise one strip of the peel and remove the banana 
carefully without breaking the rest of the skin. Dice the 
banana, dice three slices of fresh pineapple, removing the 
hard center, and add a quarter of a cup of chopped pecan 
nuts, a teaspoon of powdered sugar, a saltspoon of red 
pepper, the juice of a lemon, the juice of the heart of the 
pineapple, and a cordial glass of anisette. Let the mixture 
marinate twenty minutes, stirring it with a small wooden 
spatula every few minutes. Drain carefully and mix with 
mayonnaise made without mustard, to which a tablespoon 
of whipped cream is added just before using. Lay the 



Salads 353 

banana boats on lettuce leaves and fill lightly with the 
salad. Garnish with maraschino cherries and lay a cheese 
straw on each plate. 

Grape and Celery Salad 

Mix lightly one cup of finely chopped white celery with 
one large can of peeled Muscat grapes and dress with 
powdered sugar, a dessertspoon of ginger syrup, and a 
tablespoon of apricot cordial. Mix thoroughly, lay on 
white lettuce leaves, and garnish with green maraschino 
cherries. 

Cherry Salad 

Stone enough ox-heart cherries to make two cups, putting 
a hazel nut in each in place of the stone, sprinkle with 
powdered sugar, a grating of nutmeg, and let the mixture 
stand to drain. When ready to serve group each portion 
on a white lettuce leaf, covering it with mayonnaise. Gar- 
nish with strips of angelica. 

Mirabelle and Green Almond Salad 

For the Mirabelle and green almond salad take half a 
bottle of each, cutting the almonds fine, and make a good 
mayonnaise without mustard, using sherry instead of vine- 
gar. Serve the salad in white lettuce leaves, garnished with 
olives stufiEed with almonds. 

Fig Salad 

Take one half pound of figs and chop fine with a few 
pecan nuts, a small cup of fine chopped pineapple, and a 
small green pepper; mix with a rich mayonnaise dressing, 
place on white lettuce leaves, and garnish with olives. 

as 



SALAD DRESSINGS AND SAUCES 

There is but one kind of oil for salad dressings to be 
taken into consideration, that is the best, though so-called 
"just as good" kinds may masquerade under several 
names. The French olive oil and the Italian, with walnut 
oil for occasional use, will be found the best, though many 
people regard refined cottonseed oil and peanut oil as fairly 
satisfactory. They are much cheaper, but they cannot 
compare with olive oil for smoothness of texture or rich- 
ness of flavor. If the cook will bind the neck of the oil 
bottle with a strip of blotting paper, renewing when needed, 
the bottle wiU not grease the shelf upon which it generally 
stands. 

Heavy French Dressing 

A half teaspoon of salt, a quarter teaspoon of pepper, six 
tablespoons of olive oil, two drops of tabasco sauce, a quar- 
ter teaspoon of Worcestershire sauce, four drops onion 
juice, a quarter teaspoon of mustard sauce; beat with an 
egg beater, adding slowly the juice of one lemon. Continue 
beating for ten minutes, then add slowly a tablespoon of 
tarragon vinegar, beat five minutes more, and set away in 
a cold place until ready for use. Just before using stir 
thoroughly with a fork, and if a little thick add another 
tablespoon of vinegar. 

French Dressing Made with Vegetable or Peanut Oil 

One half cup of peanut oil, a teaspoon of Worcestershire 
sauce, a saltspoon of mixed mustard, a saltspoon of salt, a 

354 



Salad Dressings and Sauces 355 

dash of cayenne pepper, and two tablespoons of vinegar of 
any desired flavor. Beat thoroughly and it is ready for 
use. 

French dressing should be beaten with an egg beater 
during the process of mixing, that it may thoroughly blend; 
then if immediately chiUed it will not separate or change 
color. It should always be put away in a wide-mouthed 
bottle kept for the purpose, with a tight clean cork, and be 
shaken thoroughly before being used. 

Plain Mayonnaise 

Break the yolks of two eggs into a cold bowl, add a salt- 
spoon of salt and a half saltspoon of red pepper, and beat 
with a silver fork. Begin to add olive oil drop by drop until 
the naixture begins to thicken; continue dropping the oil 
and when the mixture gets quite thick add, drop by drop, 
strained lemon juice, alternating with the oil, and continue 
beating. This quantity of egg should take up a cup and a 
half of oil and the juice of half a large lemon. When the 
mayonnaise is as stiff as is desired it may be set away to 
chill; and when ready to use, if it seems too heavy, blend 
with it a small quantity of whipped cream. 

Mayonnaise Made with Walnut Oil 

Take the yolks of two fresh eggs, a pinch of salt, a pinch 
of cayenne pepper, beat thoroughly with a fork in a cold 
bowl and add drop by drop walnut oil, adding now and then 
two or three drops of lemon juice; continue until the dress- 
ing is as thick as desired, which probably would require a cup 
at least of the oil, possibly more. Be sure that all ingredi- 
ents are very cold, which will insure success. If one desires 
a little more flavor than the lemon will impart, a few drops 
of tarragon vinegar may be added. This is made without 
mustard, so that it can be used where the salad is combined 
with fruits. 



35^ Salad Dressings and Sauces 

Mayonnaise with Mustard 

Proceed in the same way as above, only adding a large 
saltspoon of mustard to the eggs and using olive oil instead 
of walnut, and thismay be flavored with a little of the shalot 
or garlic vinegar, two or three drops only, or a few drops of 
onion juice. 

Russian Mayonnaise 

Take one large cup of mayonnaise made with mustard and 
add to it enough tomato ketchup to color it a deep pink, a 
teaspoon each of chopped chives, chopped red pepper, one 
finely chopped gherkin, and a teaspoon of onion juice. 

Boiled Mayonnaise 

Cream together three tablespoons of flour and two table- 
spoons of olive oil, Add one cup of boiling water to one 
quarter cup of vinegar, pour slowly over the flour and oil, 
add a half teaspoon of salt and a half saltspoon of pepper. 
Let the sauce slowly come to boiling point and thicken. Re- 
move from the fire and beat in three egg yolks. Mix thor- 
oughly, then, with an egg beater, beat in three quarters of a 
cup of oUve oil, a teaspoon at a time; and then more rapidly 
as the sauce begins to thicken. When all is thoroughly 
beaten set away to chiU. 

Mayonnaise Made without Oil 

Beat two eggs with four tablespoons of vinegar, add a 
dessertspoon of butter, a saltspoon of pepper, a half teaspoon 
of salt, a saltspoon of mustard, and the same amount of 
paprika and a dessertspoon of sugar. Cook in a double 
boiler until the dressing is smooth, but do not cook long 
enough to curdle it. When done set away to chill. 

What is known as "white mayonnaise" has gained much 
popularity because o| its delicacy of flavor and its adapt- 



Salad Dressings and Sauces 357 

ability to various fruit salads. To make this , stiffly whipped 
cream is added to mayonnaise until the desired lightness of 
color and texture is gained. 

Should mayonnaise made the day before separate or 
crack it may be brought back to the right consistency by 
beating a fresh egg yolk and adding the mayonnaise to it a 
teaspoon at a time. This is like re-making it, but it is the 
only way it can be made usable. 

For jellying mayonnaise in which chicken or other meat 
is to be molded allow four teaspoons of gelatine powder, 
softened in a little cold water then dissolved in fovir table- 
spoons of boiling water, to two cups of the plain mayon- 
naise. 

Boiled Dressing 

One tablespoon of dry mustard, two of sugar, saltspoon of 
salt, half saltspoon of pepper, lump of butter the size of an 
egg, one egg, and half a cup of vinegar; mix and blend; then 
boil, stirring constantly until the right consistency, and pour 
over the cabbage slaw. 

Dressing for Fruit Salad 

Take three tablespoons of flour, enough water to make 
a thin batter, a quarter cup of vinegar, filled up with water ; 
one cup of water, three tablespoons of sugar, one teaspoon 
butter, yolks of four eggs and white of one, a saltspoon of 
dry mustard, and a saltspoon of salt. Mix together and 
cook in double boiler until thick, stirring all the time. Chill 
the dressing, and just before time to serve the salad add a 
little whipped cream. 

Sweet Cream Dressing 

One cup of sweet cream, a teaspoon of salt, a tablespoon 
of sugar, three drops of tabasco sauce, two tablespoons of 
tarragon vinegar; stir thoroughly until all is blended, chill, 
and serve with any combination vegetable salad. Sour 



35^ Salad Dressings and Savices 

cream may be used in place of the sweet cream if more 
convenient. 

The sotir or sweet cream dressings made with a cup of 
cream, two tablespoons of sugar, and the juice of a lemon 
will be much improved by the juice of half a lemon and a 
tablespoon of any of the seasoned vinegars, especially the 
shalot vinegar. 

Thousand Island Dressing 

Chop fine one onion, two small cold boiled beets, one hard- 
boiled egg, and mix with four tablespoons of thin mayon- 
naise and a tablespoon of chili sauce; mix thoroughly and 
add three tablespoons of cream. Select the brand of chili 
sauce with the finest ingredients; if they seem too coarse, 
mash them through a fine sieve. This dressing will be 
found excellent with white lettuce and cucumbers. 

Prussian Sauce 

Take fotu- tablespoons of horseradish, two tablespoons of 
bread crumbs that have been fried in butter and drained, 
a saltspoon of salt, a half saltspoon of pepper, a tablespoon 
of sugar, a teaspoon of onion juice, a teaspoon of finely 
chopped parsley, and a cup of sour cream. Beat thoroughly 
with a fork and serve with potato or cabbage salad. 

Sauce Piquant 

This is a good sauce to use with any cold fish salad. A 
half cup of tomato ketchup, a teaspoon of Worcestershire 
sauce, a teaspoon of mushroom ketchup, the juice of an 
onion, a half teaspoon of hot southern sauce, a tablespoon of 
chutney syrup; blend thoroughly and add a tablespoon 
of tarragon vinegar. 

Sauce Mandalay 

To a good French dressing add one tablespoon of Manda- 
lay sauce, a teaspoon of chopped olives, juice of a small 
onion, and a teaspoon of finely chopped chives. 



Salad Dressings and Sauces 359 

Ambrosia Sauce 

This sauce is to use with a fruit salad consisting of white 
grapes, oranges, bananas, grapefruit, and a Httle diced 
pineapple. Take the juice of one lemon, the juice of half 
an orange, and half a cup of grated pineapple. Stir to- 
gether and add three quarters of a cup of strained honey 
that is warm enough to blend thoroughly; add a teaspoon 
of ginger syrup, and after the fruit has been chilled and 
drained pour over the sauce and heap a little whipped 
cream on top. 

Mustard Sauce 

Chop a half green pepper and a quarter of a small cucum- 
ber fine, after removing seeds, add to a half cup of mustard 
dressing, and after mixing add a quarter cup of thin French 
dressing. 

Sauce Violette 

To a half cup of French dressing add a teaspoon of mou- 
tarde violette de brive and mix well before using. 

French Mustard Sauce 

If one desires to make French mustard to add to dressing 
this is a good recipe for it : Take a tablespoon of whole mixed 
spices and three lumps of sugar, let come to a boil in a pint 
of vinegar. Take four tablespoons of dry mustard and mix 
to a stiff paste with a little vinegar. Let the spiced vinegar 
boil five minutes, strain, and turn slowly into the mustard, 
beating it with a red-hot iron beater. This is needed for the 
smoothness, and if it is properly mixed will keep, well 
corked, for months. Put it into wide-mouthed bottles and 
cork. 



360 Salad Dressin^^s and Sauces 

English Mustard 

The sharp English mustard one makes at home as it is 
needed, and this is a good recipe to follow: One tablespoon 
of dry mustard, a teaspoon of flour, naix with a tablespoon 
of water and a few drops of vinegar to the right consistency ; 
cover closely, and this mustard will not dry out as quickly 
as when made with all vinegar and no flour. 



DAIRY PRODUCTS 
Eggs 

There is but one sort of egg permissible in first-class 
cookery — ^the strictly fresh egg; and as this is the egg which 
is most expensive, we have every right to demand perfec- 
tion, even to the extent of having each egg stamped with its 
date. So-called state eggs, or case eggs, are often very 
good and quite fresh enough for ordinary cookery, but, for 
the finest of egg dishes, where the flavor of the egg counts, 
the egg from one day to a week old is the only one to 
use. 

There are a number of methods of keeping eggs fresh. 
One is to smear the shells with sweet oil, then to pack the 
eggs away in sawdust so that they do not touch one another. 
Another way is to pack the eggs in a deep bowl, cover 
them with lime water, and put the bowl in a cool place. 

There is hardly a housekeeper who does not realize the 
value of egg dishes in an emergency and also for breakfast 
and luncheon dishes. Eggs are always in the house and 
are the least perishable of made-dish commodities. 

There are a number of tests for fresh eggs; one is to hold 
the egg in the right hand against a strong light ; if the yolk 
appears round and plump in the center, and the white 
clear, it is safe to judge that the egg is fresh. Again, the 
egg may be dropped into a bowl of water and if it is per- 
fectly fresh it will sink and rest upon its side; if it floats it 
is very stale. Boiling an egg is a test of freshness also. 

361 



362 Dairy Products 

Boiled, fried, and scrambled the egg seems to be best 
known to all nations. The cooking is varied, however, by 
a number of odd disguising sauces as the following recipes 
show. In the hottest climates the eggs are most highly 
seasoned and the dishes most complicated, while the cooler 
the countries the simpler and less highly seasoned dishes 
are served by the best cooks. 

Poached eggs, instead of being done the old-fashioned 
way in water, may be poached in strained honey which gives 
them a peculiarly attractive flavor. They a;re slipped as 
usual onto buttered toast squares, dusted lightly with 
pepper and salt, and topped by a tablespoon of whipped 
cream. 

In boiling eggs the water should be boiling gently when 
the eggs are put in with a spoon and the spoon not with- 
drawn until the egg rests upon the bottom of the saucepan. 
The proper time for boiUng is from three to four minutes, 
according to the way the egg is liked. For hard-boiled eggs 
six to seven minutes will be found the proper time. If the 
eggs are large, Uke those of the black Spanish fowls, allow 
them an extra half minute in cooking. 

Duck's eggs are usually so strongly flavored that plain 
boiled they are seldom eaten. They are not bad, however, 
for cooking, as they are quite rich and one duck's egg will 
go as far as two hen's eggs. 

Poached Egg with Cream Sauce 

Have ready heated before poaching the egg in boiling 
water, a half gill of cream that has a saltspoon of salt, a half 
saltspoon of pepper, a small piece of butter, and a saltspoon 
of sugar in it. Add to the boiling water in which the egg 
is to be poached two tablespoons of vinegar and a pinch of 
salt. This wiU firm the eggs and prepare them for the 
sauce. When the egg is poached remove with a slicer and 
slip onto a toast round, pour the hot cream sauce over the 
egg, and serve at once. 



Dairy Products 363 

Tomato Eggs 

BoU six eggs hard and cut them in halves. Boil, skin, and 
dice one small canned tongue. Make a good savory 
tomato sauce by using one can of tomatoes, one bay leaf, 
three cloves, a diced carrot, one onion, a shalot, and a 
smaU bunch of parsley chopped fine. Boil for half an hour, 
strain, thicken with a little butter and flour rubbed to a 
paste, add pepper and salt to taste and a saltspoon of sugar. 
Put in the egg halves and the diced tongue and allow them 
to heat through. Turn into a covered dish, sprinkle a little 
parmesan cheese over the top, and send to table. 

Baked Eggs 

Boil eight eggs hard. When cold cut lengthwise, remove 
the yolJss and make a paste of them with a tablespoon of 
butter, a saltspoon each of pepper and salt, a small grated 
onion, and enough cream to make a medium paste. Fill the 
egg whites with the mixture and tie them together with tiny 
strips of kitchen tape. Roll them in grated cheese and fine 
bread crumbs that have a dash of sugar and pepper with 
them, then lay them in a well buttered baking dish. As they 
cook baste with a Httle melted butter and cream ; bake a deli- 
cate brown. , Serve in a napkin garnished with parsley, and 
add to the little dish gravy a half cup of whipped cream; 
this sauce is served in a small tvireen with the eggs. 

Eggs Mignon 

Slice two onions very thin; drain twelve button mush- 
rooms, cut them in half, and saut6 them with the onions in 
butter. Boil six eggs hard, when done cut them in half 
and remove the yolks. Slice the whites in rings. Have 
ready a half pint of good brown gravy, add to it the onion 
and mushrooms and the egg rings. When all is hot drop in 
the half yolks and allow them to heat one minute. Turn 
into a hot covered dish and serve. This is sufficient for folir 
persons. 



364 Dairy Products 

Scrambled Eggs and Sardines 

Open a box of sardines, drain them well and remove all 
skin and bone; flake them fairly small; there should be two 
heaping tablespoons of the fish. Beat four eggs, season with 
pepper and salt, and add a tablespoon of milk to them. 
Melt a half ounce of butter in a steel frying pan, stir in the 
fish, then turn in the eggs and beat all lightly with a silver 
fork. When scrambled and done so that the pan is left 
clean, heap on a hot platter, garnishing with crisp, fresh 
cress. 

Shirred Eggs with Ham 

Take one cup of finely chopped cold boiled ham and add 
to it one teaspoon of French mustard, two of Worcester- 
shire sauce, a tablespoon of ketchup, a quarter saltspoon of 
red pepper, and a little melted butter. Divide the portion 
into six well buttered egg dishes. Break two eggs into each 
dish, dust with pepper and salt, and bake three to five min- 
utes, according to the oven. 

Eggs with Grayfish 

Boil six eggs hard, shell and cut them in halves length- 
wise. Remove the yolks and mash them to a paste, adding 
a tablespoon of melted butter, a teaspoon each of Worces- 
tershire and horseradish. Take a third of a can of grayfish, 
bone and flake it, then work it into the egg paste. When 
thoroughly mixed fill the egg whites and tie the eggs to- 
gether with kitchen tape. Put the eggs in a buttered 
casserole, cover with a pint of good gravy, and bake in a 
moderate oven for one hour. 

Scotch Woodcock 

Make a white sauce of one tablespoon each of butter and 
flour, blended with a cup of cold milk and a pinch of salt. 
When smooth, add six hard-boiled eggs chopped fine, a dash 



Dairy Prodxjcts 365 

of pepper, two tablespoons of bread crumbs that have been 
fried in butter, and a tablespoon of finely grated cheese; 
mix well and serve on slices of hot buttered toast. 

Eggs au Miroir 

Butter a baking dish thickly with good fresh butter and 
melt it. Break four eggs into it as though for poaching; 
dust them lightly with pepper and salt and dot the tops 
with little pieces of butter. Put the dish on a hot plate 
in the oven and let it remain long enough to set the whites 
of the eggs. Serve at once in the same dish. 

Vennicelli Eggs 

Boil eight eggs hard. Shell and cut lengthways, remov- 
ing the yolks. Make a good cream sauce, not too thick, and 
drop the whites into it long enough to heat. Turn all over 
buttered toast on a hot platter and put the yolks through a 
ricer over the top. 

American Eggs 

Needless to say the open-eyed fried egg served with 
broiled or fried ham is the favorite egg, and finds its way 
to all of the best hotel and restaurant menus. 

Chinese Eggs 

Cut six three-inch pieces of toast, butter lightly. Slice 
lean bacon very thin, broil a minute on each side, cut in two, 
and place on the toast. Break into a small hot pan with a 
half gill of melted butter six eggs, sprinkle each with a tea- 
spoon of finely grated cooked ham, a pinch of salt and the 
same of pepper; cook two minutes, then set in the oven one 
minute, place each egg on the toast. Brown one ounce of 
butter, add to it one teaspoon of vinegar, a saltspoon of 
curry powder, boil up once and pour over the eggs. 



366 Dairy Prodxicts 

French Eggs 

Boil six eggs hard, strip off the shells, and cut in quarters. 
Arrange on a dish, and make the following sauce: One large 
tablespoon of butter, a tablespoon of flour, and stir over the 
fire until it thickens; pour in slowly a pint of rich milk, 
boil it, adding another tablespoon of butter and the season- 
ing and a teaspoon of minced parsley, boil five minutes, add 
the juice of half a lemon. Pour over the sauce and garnish 
with parsley. 

German Eggs 

Wash and boil two quarts of spinach, chop fine, and drain, 
then mix with a rich cream sauce, mold so that the top may 
be covered with poached eggs covered with a Kttle grated 
cheese, put in hot oven a minute to melt, then serve. 

Hungarian Eggs 

Arrange hard-boiled eggs and cold boiled potatoes sliced 
in thick slices in alternate layers, season with butter, a 
saltspoon each of pepper and salt, and pour over the top 
enough sour cream to cover the ingredients and bake a 
delicate brown. 

Irish Eggs 

Place on deUcately broiled slices of bacon poached eggs 
and cover them with a rich cream sauce. Garnish with 
toast sippets. 

Italian Eggs 

Make as many little molds of rice as there are guests at 
table, lay a poached egg on the top of each, and pour over 
them a sauce of tomatoes to which a pinch of saffron has 
been added and three finely minced anchovies; season with 
paprika and garnish with truffles. 



Dairy Products 367 

Norwegian Eggs 

Place on a platter large flakes of hot smoked salmon, 
scramble six eggs in butter, season and spread over the fish, 
and serve hot. 

Russian Eggs 

On delicate slices of toast spread a layer of caviar, place a 
fresh poached egg on top, season with a quarter saltspoon of 
pepper, a pinch of salt and a few drops of lemon juice; 
garnish with parsley and serve. 

Scotch Eggs 

Boil six eggs hard, for about seven minutes; when done 
strip from the shells, roll them in a good forcemeat mixture, 
and fry in very hot lard; drain and lay on the platter with a 
pint of good brown gravy poured over them. 

Ttirkish Eggs 

Boil six kidneys and six chicken livers and hearts with an 
onion and a spice bag, throwing off the water four times. 
Make a brown sauce, pour on a hot platter with as many 
poached eggs on top as there are portions to be served. 
Garnish with parsley. 

Eggs Nicoise 

Take two hard-boiled eggs, one fresh tomato, some freshly 
boiled cold string beans, lettuce leaves, and anchovies. 
Arrange the lettuce on a small plate, cut each egg into five 
sUces, and arrange on the lettuce, then decorate with 
anchovies; place the string beans on one side, the tomato, 
cut in quarters, on the other. Make a vinaigrette sauce of 
shalots, fine herbs, a half teaspoon of French mustard, one 
teaspoon of chiU sauce, the yolk of a hard-boiled eeg, salt, 



368 Dairy Products 

pepper, vinegar, and oil to taste. Mix thoroughly, strain 
through a fine sieve, and pour over the eggs. 

OMELET RECIPES 
Plain Omelet 

A four-egg omelet is sufficient for three people. 

Break four eggs into a bowl and beat them with a fork so 
as to thoroughly mix the whites and yolks. Add three 
tablespoons of warm water, a half saltspoon of pepper, and 
a half saltspoon of salt. Place in the omelet pan a round- 
ing tablespoon of butter and when hot turn in the omelet. 
Shake the pan continuously, raising the edges of the omelet 
with a limber knife to allow the thin part to run under- 
neath. When the omelet is set turn or fold it, have ready 
heated the omelet plate, and turn the omelet onto it. 
Garnish with parsley and send at once to table. 

Spanish Omelet 

For lovers of Spanish omelet there is a new bottled filling 
which saves time and trouble in the preparation of the 
vegetables. Make a five-egg omelet, using four tablespoons 
of the filling, which may be put in a tiny saucepan with a 
quarter cup of melted butter, a tablespoon of ketchup, and 
three drops of hot southern sauce to heat. Pour in the 
center and fold the omelet as usual; garnish with olive 
rings and strips of red pepper. 

Rarebit Omelet 

This appetizing dish may be served for breakfast, lunch- 
eon, or supper in the place of meat. It is a combination 
of cheese and eggs and yet is entirely .different from the 
ordinary cheese omelet. Beat the required number of 
eggs until very light, as for an omelet, and add almost the 
same quantity of grated American cheese. Season the 
mixture to taste with salt, celery salt, and black pepper; 



Dairy Products 369 

add one tablespoon of cream and pour it into a heated 
omelet pan in which has been heated a tablespoon of 
butter. Do not stir the mixture, but let it cook like an 
omelet, and just before turning over sprinkle with a little 
chopped parsley. Brown delicately and serve immedi- 
ately on a heated platter. 

Newburg Omelet 

Parboil, trim, and dice one pair of sweetbreads; make a 
Newburg sauce, slice thin four truffles and put them in the 
sauce with the sweetbreads; add a teaspoon of onion juice 
and wipe the inside of the omelet pan with a half bud of 
gariic before putting in the tablespoon of butter to melt. 
Beat eight eggs, adding a teaspoon of salt, a saltspoon of 
white pepper, one half gill .of cream, half a saltspoon of 
cayenne. Have omelet pan hot, turn in the eggs, make the 
omelet as usual, and when it is set add the Newburg, first 
draining off the extra sauce. Fold it over, turn onto a 
hot plate, garnish with toast sippets and sprays of fresh 
cress. Serve the remainder of the Newburg sauce very 
hot in small tureen; if it is too thick thin it slightly with a 
little hot cream. This is a very delicious luncheon dish. 

Hessian Omelet 

One hard-boiled egg, four olives, one pepper, a few sprays 
of chives. Chop all together, add a teaspoon of Worcester- 
shire sauce, a tablespoon of ketchup, a teaspoon of onion 
juice, a tablespoon of apple sauce, a dash of red pepper, and 
three quarters of a cup of finely chopped cold boiled ham. 
Mix thoroughly, put in small saucepan to heat in a heaping 
tablespoon of butter; when hot and ready to turn into the 
omelet add two tablespoons of whipped cream. Make 
a six-egg omelet, turn the mixture in before folding and 
serve on hot plate garnished with sprays of parsley and 
lemon quarters. 
24 



370 Dairy Products 

Lobster Omelet 

Take one cup of col4 boiled lobster cut in small pieces 
and cook until thickened slightly with half a cup of milk 
and a gill of cream, a dash of red pepper and a saltspoon 
of salt and one beaten egg. Have ready the omelet pan 
in which there is a tablespoon of melted butter, turn in six 
well-beaten eggs, cook them the usual way, turn the lobster 
in the center, and fold over the edges. When done turn onto 
a hot omelet plate and garnish with slices of lemon dipped 
into finely chopped parsley. 

Onion Omelet 

Put a tablespoon of butter or fine drippings into a frying 
pan and add four sliced onions, dust with salt, pepper, and a 
teaspoon of sugar, cook until done, then add two beaten 
eggs for each person at table. Beat thoroughly, then make 
the omelet in the usual way. Turn and serve hot garnished 
with parsley. 

Ripe Olive Omelet 

Drain one small bottle of ripe olives, add to them the 
whites of two cold boiled eggs diced and a tablespoon 
of chutney syrup. Make a five-egg omelet, have the olive 
mixture warmed in a tiny saucepan, but not cooked, turn 
into the omelet and fold as usual. Turn on a hot dish, 
and garnish with a few sprays of carefully washed fresh 
mint dusted with powdered sugar. 

Omelet with Cheese 

Make the omelet in the usual way and have ready, just 
before it is turned, the whites of two eggs stiffly beaten, 
and a quarter of a cup of grated cheese and a saltspoon each 
of pepper and salt beaten with them. Spread the filling on 
the omelet, then fold it, and while it is browning on either 



Dairy Products 371 

side the cheese will cook sufficiently. Serve garnished with 
toast sippets and parsley. 

Bachelor's Omelet 

Make a thin cream of a teaspoon of flour and a half tea- 
cup of milk. Beatthreeeggs and mix them with the cream, 
adding a pinch of salt and a half Saltspoon of pepper. Melt 
two ounces of butter in a small frying pan and when it is 
hot turn in the mixture; when the omelet begins to set, 
sprinkle over it some finely chopped herbs and a little 
chopped onion that has been sauted in a little butter. Fold 
the omelet in the usual way and serve it on a hot dish 
garnished with a few sprays of parsley. 

SWEET OMELETS 

Omelet Souffle 

Separate the whites from the yolks of six eggs, add to the 
yolks five tablespoons of sugar, one dessertspoon of rice 
flour, flavoring of vaniUa, and stir the ingredients together. 
Put three ounces of butter in a smaU frying pan and whip the 
whites very Ught and mix with the batter. As soon as the 
butter begins to bubble pour in the batter and set it over a 
gentle fire. When the omelette is set turn over the edges 
so as to make it oval shape, and slip it on a well buttered 
silvered dish. Put it into the oven and bake eight min- 
utes; spriiikle with powdered sugar, and serve quickly. 

A Fruit Omelet 

Separate six eggs and beat very light, add a half teaspoon 
of salt and three tablespoons of milk. Put into the pan one 
tablespoon of butter and when hot pour in the omelet. 
Shake on the hottest part of the stove and when it begins 
to thicken set it on the grate of the oven to set. Remove 
and add a small cup of shredded pineapple that has been 



372 Dairy Prodvicts 

dusted with sugar, and a teaspoon of sherry. Fold the 
omelet and serve on a hot plate. 

Omelet au Flame 

Beat six eggs very light with a silver fork, add a pinch 
of salt and two pinches of sugar, fry the omelet in the 
usual way, but before folding it spread it with three table- 
spoons of apricot jam. Fold it and dry in the oven, then 
pour over it a gill of Jamaica rum. Set it on fire and 
serve the omelet burning. 

Banana Omelet 

Add to eight eggs half a gill of cream, a teaspoon of salt, 
and two saltspoons of white pepper. Beat with a fork for 
two minutes. Fry two peeled and sliced bananas in melted 
butter for five minutes, toss the pan frequently while the 
bananas are frying, and then turn in the eggs. Beat 
them for two minutes, then let them rest half a minute, 
fold up the sides, let the omelet stand for a minute, then 
turn onto a hot dish. 

Orange Omelet 

Add three tablespoons of orange juice and two tablespoons 
of sugar to three well beaten eggs, fry the omelet in the 
usual way, and place in the center before folding one thinly 
sliced orange dusted with sugar. When ready to serve 
garnish the top with orange quarters dipped in sugar. 

Strawberry Omelet 

Washandhullone pint of very ripe strawberries, cut them 
in half and sprinkle with half a cup of powdered sugar, two 
tablespoons of water, and half a teaspoon of vanilla; mix 
thoroughly and let stand fifteen minutes. Break eight 
fresh eggs into a bowl, add two saltspoons of salt, two 



Dairy Products 373 

tablespoons of sugar, and half a gill of cream. Beat briskly 
for two minutes. Have half an ounce of butter melted in 
the omelet pan, turn the eggs into it, beat them with a fork 
for about two minutes, then let them rest half a minute. 
Turn one fourth of the berries into the center of the omelet, 
fold up the two opposite sides to join the center, let it 
stand for just half a minute, and then turn out on a hot 
dish. Mash the remainder of the berries through a sieve 
over the top of the omelet, sprinkle lightly with a little 
powdered sugar, and serve. 

Rhubarb Omelet 

Take one cup of stewed fresh rhubarb (drained) and 
add to it one tablespoon of preserved ginger syrup. See 
that the rhubarb has not been stewed to pieces, but left in 
fairly firm cubes. Make a six-egg omelet, drain the mix- 
ture again and add it before folding the omelet; serve on a 
hot platter, dust with powdered sugar, and garnish with 
cheese toast sippets. 

MILK 

Owing to effective work done by Health Boards through- 
out the country the purity of milk offered for sale has 
become fairly satisfactory. The cleanliness insisted upon 
in the care of the cattle, in their housing and health, the 
strict supervision in modifying, pasteurizing the milk, and 
packing it in perfect containers to reach its destination as 
quickly as possible, has made itself felt in the lessening of 
infant mortality. The healthful effects following the use of 
buttermilk, wHch is the residue after chtiming, has given 
rise to the new bottled fermented drinks, of which koumys 
and fermillac are members, all being comprehended under 
the Bulgarian group (milk soured with the Bulgarian 
bacillus). 

Milk should be swallowed very slowly. Wnen swallowed 
rapidly it is very hard of digestion. 



374 Dairy Products 

Milk should be served cool but never iced. 

To scald milk put it into a double boiler and when it is 
warm enough to steam slightly when a spoon is put into it, 
it is sufficiently hot. Never allow it to boil. 

To sterilize milk pour it into clean bottles, stop them 
with soft cotton corks, place them in a sterilizer, or steamer, 
and steam them continuously for an hour and a half. 

Cream 

Cream twenty-four hours old wiU whip much better and 
more quickly than new cream. As soon as the cream is 
whipped place it in an enamel strainer over an enamel bowl 
so that it may drain while it chills. 

Devonshire Cream 

In cool weather let the milk stand twenty-four hours 
or half that time in warm weather in the milk pan. Then 
set the pan on the stove and let it remain until the milk 
is quite hot but it must not boil. When it is done suffi- 
ciently the undulations on the surface wiU look thick and 
small rings appear. The time for scalding cream depends 
on the size of the pan and the heat of the fire, but the slower 
it is done the better. The pan should be placed in the dairy 
when the cream is sufficiently scalded, and skimmed the 
following day. This cream is excellent on fresh fruit, and 
in Devonshire, England, butter is made from it. 

Devonshire Jmiket 

Heat blood warm one quart of milk ; add to it one dessert- 
spoon of sugar and two of Shinn's liquid rennet. Pour out 
into a deep dish with two tablespoons of brandy, cover and 
put in a cool place to set. Then spread over the top a thick 
cream, a grating of nutmeg, a little powdered sugar, and 
serve. 



Dairy- Products 375 

BUTTER 

Butter for general table use is the salt creamy butter 
and the so-called sweet butter (unsalted) ; besides these there 
are the various nut and fancy butters which are used for 
special occasions. 

In choosing fresh butter it should smell deliciously and 
be of an equal color all through; if it smells sour it has not 
been sufBciently washed to free it from the buttermilk, and 
if it is veiny and crumbly it has probably been worked with 
an inferior or stale sort of butter. 

Where butter is purchased a large tub at a time the first 
thing to do is to turn it out, scrape the outside of the butter 
with a knife, wipe the inside of the tub with a clean cloth and 
sprinkle all around with salt ; put back the butter, cover with 
a salted cloth, and put on the lid to exclude the air. If the 
butter proves too salt when it is taken from the tub a small 
portion at a time it should be carefully washed with clean 
water. 

One word of caution is necessary regarding rancid butter. 
All people realize that it is not fit to use on bread, yet are 
tempted to use it in cooking, where the unpleasant acidity 
can be more or less disguised. This is a great mistake as it 
is quite poisonous in its nature, and never under any circum- 
stances should one be tempted to use butter that is turning. 
In fact, the more you can do without the use of butter that 
has been subjected to the influence of heat the better. 
Porcelain butter chums are very handy for small family 
use, and by saving all the sour milk and cream during the 
week one may have quite a nice pat of fresh butter for 
Sunday use, and also some real buttermilk to drink. 

Fairy Butter 

Take the yolks of two hard-boiled eggs and beat them 
smooth to a paste with one tablespoon of orange flower water 
and two tablespoons of powdered sugar. When thoroughly 
smooth add them to one quarter pound of fresh butter and 



376 Dairy Products 

work all into a smooth paste; when blended, put into a 
strong cheesecloth square that has been wrung out of ice 
water and squeeze the butter through it onto a cold plate. 
As the butter is forced through the meshes of the cloth it will 
come out in odd-shaped pieces, and it is very dainty to serve 
in this way with fresh hot biscuit or bread. 

CHEESE 

Cheese usually agrees or decidedly disagrees with people 
at once, which decides the question for each individual 
case whether or not it shall have a place in the daily menu. 
However^ there may be "extenuating circumstances," 
and a cooked cheese dish may often be enjoyed by a person 
when the stoinach has rejected it in its natural state. Milk 
and cheese taken at the same meal have been known to 
bring on the most violent case of indigestion. Sometimes 
cheese taken with wine or liquor has been known to have 
the same effect. While it is acceptable to nearly all diners 
at the end of the meal, those of sedentary habits should be 
wary of over-indulgence in quantity. 

The very best way to cut soft or crumbly cheese is with a 
stout white linen thread, as this cuts perfectly without the 
least bit of waste. The more crumbly a cheese is the more 
easily it is digested. 

If buying a considerable quantity of cheese first test a 
little piece by melting it in a Uttle milk in a double boiler. 
If it assumes a granulated appearance it is the right sort to 
buy. But if it gets tough and stringy it lacks nutriment 
and will be indigestible. To keep cheese moist that is in 
daily use, wrap it in a moist cloth, then cover and set away 
in a cool place. 

To ripen an Edam cheese run the cheese tryer through a 
fresh one and fill the opening with good brandy. Let it 
stand for three weeks, and the flavor will be greatly im- 
proved. 

Cheeses may be kept in a perfect state for a long time 



Dairy Products ■ 377 

by smearing them over with a coating of melted suet, or by 
covering them with parchment that has been made pliable 
by soaking in water. 

For grating the dairy cheeses wiU be found the best. 
They have the richest flavor for cooking. 

A piece of fresh Parmesan cheese grated at home is far 
better in flavor and stronger than that purchased in the 
bottles ready grated. 

Parmesan cheese is made in Italy and of the skimmed 
cow's milk, and none is offered at market before it is six 
months old. The high flavor of it is due to the rich herb- 
age of the meadows where the cows are pastured. English 
Stilton cheese is often called the British Parmesan and is 
considered the finest of table cheeses. 

If a large quantity of cheese is purchased at once, part 
may be covered with thickly buttered white paper to keep 
it. Smaller pieces may be wrapped in a damp cloth. 
Cheese keeps best in a damp, cool place covered from the 
air. It may also be covered with cloths wet with good 
brandy, which adds richness to the flavor as well as keeping 
it soft and moist. 

To Make Cream Cheese 

Cream cheese dishes have grown to be so popular an 
addition to the daily menu that cooks are experimenting in 
novel ways of serving it. 

Some people in making the home-made cream cheese use 
the sour cream, turning it into a cheesecloth bag and letting 
it drain over night, then removing it and adding seasoning 
and packing it in a mold until needed, then turning it out 
and eating it with fresh cream. But the English way of 
making it is to take three pints of heavy rich cream and 
turn it into a cheese bag that has been wet with cold water 
and hang it for seven or eight days in a cool place; then 
change it to a fresh bag for a day and then into a mold, 
pressing a weight on it for two days; then it is ready for use 
and cuts like butter. 



378 Dairy Pro ducts 

Bohemian Pot Cheese 

Take one quart of sweet milk and one quart of sour milk, 
turn them both into a basin and set the basin into a larger 
container filled with hot water, being sure that none of the 
water gets into the milk. Push it to the back of the stove 
where it will remain at an even temperature, below boiling 
point. The milk must not boil. When the curd is set, 
drain oflE the milk, break it up finely with a fork, and pack it 
into little basket openwork molds; then set it aside to cool. 
When cold, serve the cheese with any good jam, or with salt 
and fresh cream. 

Cream Cheese Piquant 

Season and soften one package of cream cheese with a 
tablespoon of catsup, a teaspoon of onion juice, a teaspoon 
of Worcestershire sauce, a saltspopn of sugar, a dessert- 
spoon of p^t6-de-fois-gras, three olives, and the heart of a 
stalk of celery chopped fine. RoU into a good-sized cylinder, 
chill, and serve in slices. 

Cream Cheese and Chestnut Puree 

Season as desired a large package of cream cheese and 
add enough sweet cream to make a stiff but pliable paste. 
Roll out to half an inch thickness and cut into rounds or 
fancy shapes. Each portion consists of one round served 
with a dessertspoon of the marron ptar6e which comes 
bottled. 

Cheese Straws 

The ever popular cheese straws are made in the following 
way: 

Two ounces of butter, two ounces of flour, two ounces of 
breadcrumbs, two ounces of grated cheese, a saltspoon each 
of salt and pepper. Cream all together, roll fairly thin, cut in 
finger strips, and bake on white writing paper in a fair oven. 



Dairy Products 379 

■ There is another way of making them that is also good, 
and that is with pufE paste rolled thin and the grated cheese 
sprinkled over it, seasoned with salt and pepper. Fold the 
crust three times and then roU it and cut in convenient 
lengths. Bake a delicate brown. When cold pile log cabin 
fashion on a napkin to serve. 

Welsh Rarebit 

The following is one of the best known recipes for Welsh 
rarebit now in use: 

Shave into thin strips or slices two cups of rich dairy- 
cheese. Put into a saucepan with enough ale or beer to 
moisten but not to make it too thin when it is melted. Add 
a small lump of butter and stir continuously one way until 
perfectly melted. Then add a saltspoon each of salt and 
pepper and a teaspoon of English mustard. When all is 
melted take from the fire, and add an egg well beaten, stir 
carefully, then turn the mixture over buttered toast on hot 
plates and serve. 

Camembert Toast 

If you wish to serve Camembert cheese in a novel form, 
prepare it once in the form of Camembert toast and you will 
be sure to repeat the experiment. Remove the crust from a 
ripe Camembert cheese and spread it quite thickly over 
slices of brown bread. Dust the top with a little salt and 
a liberal amount of pepper and place the toast under the 
broiler of the gas range. Serve as soon as the top has the 
appearance of a rich brown crust. 

Cheese in Ramekins 

Stew for five minutes a can of French peas, drain, and 
mash through a sieve. Add butter, pepper, a dash of sugar, 
a half a cup of fine crumbs, and a half a cup of grated cheese. 



38o Dairy Prodvicts 

add two lightly beaten eggs, and pour the mixture into 
buttered ramekins. Bake till a delicate brown and serve 
hot with a simple salad of romaine and Boston lettuce 
cut in ribbons and a tablespoon of minced tarragon leaves, 
using French dressing made of walnut oil instead of olive oil. 
Garnish with red pepper rings. 

Cheese Strudel 

Roll a good puff paste very thin, spread lightly with 
smooth apple sauce, and sprinkle with grated cheese, a 
dusting of pepper and salt. Roll up, cut into three-inch 
lengths and bake tiU a delicate brown. Serve either hot or 
cold. Pinch the ends of each little roll before baking. 

Brazilians 

Blanch and chop fine six Brazil nuts, add them with a 
tablespoon of strawberry jam, a teaspoon of chopped celery, 
a dash of paprika, salt, and enough sweet cream to make a 
spreading paste to a package of cream cheese. Add enough 
cream so that the paste is thin enough not to break the 
bread while laying up the sandwiches. Cut rye bread very 
thin and cut the sandwiches into small rounds. These 
are dainty for afternoon tea. 

Cheese Pufflets 

Three ounces of grated cheese, one tablespoon of flour, 
one egg, saltspoon each of salt and pepper, and a cup of 
milk; bake ten minutes in popover tins. These are good to 
serve with a chop or piece of breaded cutlet. 

Tutti Fratti Cheese 

This is to serve with a fruit salad. Use one cream cheese, 
soften with a teaspoon of preserved ginger syrup, a teaspoon 
of sherry, and a little sweet cream. Chop fine one maras- 



Dairy Products 381 

schino fig, six cherries, one marron glac^, a strip of candied 
lemon peel, and three dry macaroons rolled fine. Form 
into a smooth paste, spread thickly on oval crackers, and 
put a cherry on top of each. 



NUTS 

In the so-called "bloodless" or meatless diet that is being 
adopted by many food faddists and others, nuts of all kinds 
are a prominent factor. 

The variety and supply, however, are quite equal to the 
demand and many foreign lands are sending their output 
to ovtr markets. 

The various health food companies pack nut specialties 
to be used in conjunction with their health cereals and 
fruits. 

But the most reliable headquarters for nuts are the big 
wholesale shops who retail if customers will carry home their 
own purchases. The big grocers which handle first-class 
stock are also reliable places for nuts of the best known 
varieties. 

Almonds we find in three grades, the "Ne Plus Ultra" of 
California being the finest. The almonds from Tarragon 
have the hardest shells, but are good, fuU-meated nuts for 
cooking purposes. The Jordan almonds are preferred for 
table use by many. 

The Brazil nut contains enough oil to be considered nutri- 
tious and warming to the body. Some of us have no doubt 
often wondered just why this nut should have grown in such 
an odd three-cornered shaped shell; one of us has recently 
found out that with five of its fellows it fits like the segments 
of an orange in a big round burr or shell, which accounts 
for its shape. 

The month of March brings the best Brazil nuts to mar- 
ket, the large "washed" nuts, and they are some time drying 
out before they are ready to sell. 

382 



Nuts 383 

California is furnishing the finest walnuts. They are 
large and sweet, with light colored thin shells. The French 
ones used to be leaders but lately have not been quite up 
to the standard. The black walnuts from the southern 
part of Michigan are the finest, but are almost too rich to 
eat freely of even with a meatless diet. 

Hickory nuts from New York State are always fine, and 
are in great demand for cake and candy making. The old- 
fashioned butternuts seem to be going out of style and 
favor, so that fewer and fewer are sent to this market each 
season. Hazelnuts from Naples and filberts from Sicily 
hold their own as old-time favorites for table use. 

It remained, however, for the State of Missouri to " show 
us," the nut lovers of the country, a pecan worth while. 
The nuts are long, fuU-meated and thin-sheUed, and the wise 
ones have to be "shown" them but once to refuse all others 
when buying. Those from Mexico have hard shells and the 
natives have a mysterious way of polishing the shells before 
sending them to market that gives them a peculiar reddish 
color, which is rather attractive. 

From Armenia come the pistachio nuts, some already 
salted for table use in the shell and of largest size ; others 
come for eating, candy and ice cream making. 

The Chinese lychee nuts have become quite familiar to 
us in their round, pebbly shells, and appear' with the dessert 
nuts on many tables. 

Chestnuts from France, England, Spain, and oiu: own 
country keep the market stocked in and out of season, and 
are becoming popular for cooking. They are used in many 
ways. 

The pine nuts are most popular with food faddists. How- 
ever they might not retain their popularity if each person 
had to shell his own nuts. The process of heating the cones 
until each upturned shell-like leaf opens to release the tiny 
nut is a long and tiresome job. 

The newcomers in nut aristocracy are the Luzon and pili 
nuts from the Philippines. They are a sort of first cousin 



384 Nuts 

to the Brazil nut family, looking a bit like them in shape but 
having a smooth shell, easier to crack. 

South America is sending its princess nuts to the States 
now. They are not as large as the Brazils and have a wavy 
sort of shell Uke the walnut. 

To Salt Nuts 

A general rule for salting nuts is here given which will 
be found satisfactory for home use in salting nuts that are 
usually treated in that way. 

Select the best quality of nuts to be salted, shell them 
carefully, leaving the nuts whole, then plunge them into 
boiling water, allowing them to stand there for five minutes. 
Drain, blanch, and dry them on a soft cloth. Put a half 
teaspoon of sweet butter into a shallow pan with the nuts, 
dust them very Hghtly with salt, set the pan in a medium 
oven, watch very carefully, and stir so that the nuts 
color evenly. When they are a delicate brown turn them 
out onto coarse brown paper, rolling them around until they 
are free from every particle of loose salt and grease, trans- 
ferring them to clean paper often. When cold they may be 
put away in a dry, clean glass covered jar, or in wax paper 
lined boxes. 

Many people do them without putting in any butter, 
just drying them in the oven with the salt ; but this is a mat- 
ter of fancy. The nuts generally salted are the Jordan 
almond, the Brazil nut, filberts, pecans, peanuts, English 
walnuts, pine nuts, and pistachio nuts. The princess nut 
and Brazil nut, owing to their fatty composition, do not 
blanch well. 

Braza Nut Butter 

After shelling and paring as many nuts as one wishes to 
make into butter, put them through the nut grinder, grind- 
ing to a fine meal, pack it in little jars, cover closely, and 



Nxits 385 

keep in a cool place until needed. In preparing for table 
allow half a cup of the meal to one of butter. 

Chestnuts as a Vegetable 

Peel and blanch a pound of chestnuts without breaking, 
then throw them into boiling water and boil eighteen to 
twenty minutes, until they are tender ; drain, season lightly 
with a little salt, hold over the fire a moment until they are 
dry and mealy, add to an English brown sauce, and serve 
garnished with toast sippets. 

Water Chestnuts 

Water chestnuts are greatly favored by Japanese and 
Chinese cooks. They are used cooked or thinly sliced in 
salads; they cook in the same length of time that the 
ordinary chestnut does, and make a pleasant addition to 
sauces. They are improved by the accompaniment of the 
bamboo sprouts, either cooked or raw in salad. 

Pine Paste 

Grind a half cup of pine nuts and add them to a package 
of cream cheese, add half a red pepper and three olives 
chopped fine, juice of one onion, a saltspoon of salt, a half 
saltspoon of pepper, and a level teaspoon of sugar, adding 
enough sweet cream to make a spreading paste. Lay up in 
sandwiches made of rye bread cut very thin and Hghtly 
spread with honey instead of butter. Cut the sandwiches 
in rounds and if they are to stand a while put in a cool 
place and cover with a linen cloth wrung out of cold water, 
which will keep them moist and the edges from curling. 

Nut Roast 

Boil one can of peas twenty minutes, then strain through 
a sieve, add one cup of finely chopped or ground English wal- 
nuts, a cup and a half of fine bread crumbs, two beaten eggs, 

2S 



386 Nvits 

a heaping tablespoon of butter, a saltspoon of pepper, and 
a half teaspoon of salt; mold firmly in brick shape and place 
in weU-buttered shallow roasting pan. Brush over with 
white of egg, baste twice with a quarter cup of white wine in 
which a lump of butter has been melted, and a dash of sugar 
and a grating of nutmeg added. Roast a half to three 
quarters of an hour, according to the oven heat, but do not 
btu-n or dry it too much. Serve a brown mushroom sauce 
with the roast, which should be sufficient for five persons. 

' Nut Cutlets 

One fourth pound of lentils, two ounces of almonds, one 
fourth ounce of butter, one fourth ounce of fiotu:, one egg. 

Cook lentils and rub through a sieve. Blanch and grind 
the almonds. Make a batter with the butter and flotir, add 
the lentils, almonds, and any desired seasoning. Mix well 
and turn onto plate. Make in a flat shape. Divide into 
six equal portions, making into cutlet shapes. Roll in 
beaten egg and bread crumbs. Fry in deep fat. Serve 
with tomato sauce. 

Pine Nut Roast 

Take two cups of green pea pulp (two cans of peas drained 
and pulped), one cup of chopped pine nuts, one cup of bread 
crumbs, one cup of grated pineapple, one small grated onion, 
a half gill of melted butter, one beaten egg, a half teaspoon 
salt, a saltspoon of pepper, and, if the mixture seems a little 
too thick, add a Uttle cream. Turn into a buttered baking 
dish and cook until the roast is thick enough to slice. Serve 
with it a pineapple brown sauce, which is thickened with 
browned flour and has a cup of grated pineapple cooked in it. 

Peanut Macaroons 

Beat the whites of three eggs until foamy, add one quarter 
teaspoon of cream tartar, and beat until dry. Then beat 



Nuts 387 

in gradually one half cup of sugar. When all is in and the 
mixture very light, fold in one half cup of sugar, one tea- 
spoon flour, and one pint of peanuts chopped to a powder. 
Drop by teaspoons onto a tin, lined with a buttered paper. 
Sift granulated sugar on top of each, and bake on floor of a 
quick oven from five to seven minutes. 

Walnut Fritters 

Put a small cup of milk and half an ounce of butter in a 
saucepan, over the fire. When it boils, add three ounces of 
dried and browned bread crumbs and a little dredging of 
flour. Let it cook until it no longer adheres to the pan, 
and remove from the fire. When cool, add two eggs beaten 
smooth, a large tablespoon of chopped walnut meats, a 
saltspoon of salt, a half saltspoon of pepper, a small grated 
onion, and a dessertspoon of chutney syrup. Mix well and 
shape into cakes a half inch thick, on a fioured board. Roll 
the cakes in egg and bread crumbs and fry. Serve with 
grilled tomatoes and walnut gravy. This gravy is a me- 
dium brown sauce, mixed with walnuts chopped very fine. 

Almond Pudding 

Blanch and pound a half pound of sweet almonds and six 
bitter ones to a smooth paste with a spoonful of water; warm 
a quarter of a pound of butter and mix with the almonds 
and add four eggs, two tablespoons of sugar, two tablespoons 
of cream, and a tablespoon of brandy; leave out the whites 
of two of the eggs, beat them well, and add after the other 
ingredients are aU well mixed; half fill buttered cups and 
bake twenty minutes; turn the puddings out onto a dish 
and serve with a sweet sauce. 

Marrons in Honey 

Take one pound of fresh marrons in the shell ; remove the 
shells carefully and place without breaking into boiling 



388 Nuts 

water for five minutes, when they may be easily blanched; 
then place in a saucepan covered with milk and simmer 
until the chestnuts are tender. Mash through a sieve, add 
a quarter pound of honey, mix well; then put the mass 
through a ricer onto a pretty dish and surround it with 
whipped cream. If one desires the dish a little sweeter it 
may be sweetened before putting through the ricer. 



BREAD 

"Which shall I choose?" This is the question which 
confronts the cook who is experimenting with the various 
fruit, vegetable, and ■ grain flours. One really does not 
know how many there are without stopping to investigate, 
so many have appeared on the market in answer to the 
demand of the food educators. 

Of course all cooks are well acquainted with rye, wheat, 
graham, whole wheat, rice, bran, barley, and corn flour, all of 
which have become far better products with the enforced 
pure food laws. But the banana, chestnut, lima bean, 
string bean, lentil, cassava root, yellow pea, green pea, 
potato, and mixed vegetable flours are new enough to most 
of us to need an introduction. Nearly all of the finest 
grades of these so-called fancy flours are of Swiss manufac- 
ture and are a bit too dear for everyday use. However, for 
invalids and children they are highly recommended. The 
expert cook finds them most excellent in sauce making, 
for they not only do the necessary thickening but add a 
delicate flavor all their own when properly combined. In 
some instances they also do the work of a coloring agent. 

Banana flour makes delicious cake in layers to be laid up 
with fresh banana filUng. Chestnut flour makes very ac- 
ceptable chestnut sauce if one does not want to bother with 
the nuts or if they are not at hand to use. 

Potato flour is excellent to use for potato pancakes 
or the Irish potato shortcake, which is baked in an iron 
frying pan on top of the stove. It is also good for soup 
thickening. Most of the other flours are adapted for gruels, 
sauces, or invalid soups. 

389 



390 Bread 

In using the wheat flour, the damp fine flour will be found 
to make the best pastry, while the dry, coarser variety 
makes the best bread. In place of using the compressed 
yeast in dough raising, there is a new product brought out by 
the same makers in the form of a dry yeast cake. It may 
also be had in a coarse yeast powder, which the professional 
cooks who are experimenting with it find does just as good 
work, and is always at hand for city or country use, so one 
need not depend upon delivery of the fresh yeast cakes. 

The pans for the lighter flour mixtures should be warmed 
and lightly buttered before turning in the dough. For the 
heavier flours, have the pans quite hot and well buttered 
before turning in the dough. By following these rules at 
least five minutes of heating time will be saved. 

In bread or muffin baking the heat of the oven is of great 
importance. A good medium oven is always the safest, 
for if too hot it bums before it bakes, and if too cool the 
mixture rises out of all proportion, bakes slowly, and is 
apt to fall when removed, or else be dry and tasteless. The 
medium oven may be sharpened a bit at the end of the bak- 
ing time to insure a more even browning. If the oven is 
inclined to brown too quickly one should always have at 
hand sheets of asbestos paper to lay over the cooking 
dough. 

Though the flour and yeast are of first importance in 
bread-stuff making, the other ingredients, such as butter, 
sweet milk, and eggs, should be beyond reproach, and the 
sour milk, if used, should be clotted before the soda is added 
to it. 

The increased cost of bread may induce many women to 
turn to home baking, and therefore to welcome a recipe 
which simplifies the process. Usually from five to seven hours 
are required in baking. The recipe given below wiU give 
three loaves of bread, fully as large as the baker's ten cent 
loaf, and two pans of biscuits. One pan of biscuits may be 
used hot immediately, and the other, if desired, after 
being molded into shape, may be set on the ice until next 



Bread 391 

morning, when it should be allowed to rise a half hour and 
baked twenty minutes, for breakfast. 

Flour varies in texture, some requiring more milk or water 
than others, so that one must vary the time and heat required 
proportionately in baking. Milk will always make more 
tender bread than water, but half and half is the usual 
ratio. The compressed yeast must be absolutely fresh, 
that the buds may yield all the rising quality that is expected 
of them. A poor, thin, or stale cake causes imperfect 
fermentation, the result being a heavy, unwholesome loaf. 

The home-made bread is cheaper than baker's bread, be- 
cause it lasts longer, goes a great deal further, does not 
dry up and grow stale and hard overnight, but tastes well 
just as long as there is a crust left. If the milk is sterihzed, 
as this recipe calls for, the bread will keep fresh very much 
longer. 

Pour into the bread pan one pint of sweet milk, add to it 
one pint of boiling water, and let stand until lukewarm. Add 
a lump of butter the size of a small hen's egg, a teaspoon of 
salt, and the yeast cake, dissolved in one cup of cold water. 
Sift in the flour slowly, beating with a spoon as long as the 
batter can be moved in that way, then knead with both 
hands until the dough leaves the pan clean. Transfer to a 
floured board, where it must be kneaded lightly, but quickly, 
until filled with air bubbles. The more it is tossed and 
shaken, the better for it. Dust the pan lightly with flour 
and lay the bread in it; cover with a clean, heavy cloth and 
set in a warm comer to rise. 

When risen properly, which will take from five to seven 
hours, according to the heat, the clearness of the weather, and 
the texture of the flour, have ready two well buttered biscuit 
pans, holding six or eight biscuits, and three bread pans. 
Pinch off the biscuit and shape them, putting one pan 
immediately on the ice for breakfast, leaving the others 
to rise and bake for dinner. Shape the loaves of bread and 
place them again in the warm corner, covered, until they 
rise to three quarters the height of the pan; then bake in a 



39^ Bread 

moderate, even oven from forty minutes to an hour, cover- 
ing with a sheet of asbestos paper lest they brown too quickly 
on top. Test them with a strong broom splint to be assured 
they are done in the center, and remove from the oven. 
Take them out of the pans, and when the moisture has 
evaporated and they are thoroughly cold, put them into the 
bread box. 

Twice or three times a week will be sufficient to bake for a 
family of four or six persons, and it takes but a small por- 
tion of the day in which to perform the task. 

Steamed Graham Bread 

Four cups of sifted graham flour, sifted four times; one 
cup of molasses, two cups of sour milk, two teaspoons of 
salt, two even teaspoons of soda, and one cup of raisins. 
Dissolve the soda in two or three teaspoons of hot water, and 
pour into the sour milk and molasses. When it stops 
effervescing, stir in the flour and add the raisins, which have 
been dredged in flour. Bake in weU greased pans or molds. 
Steam three hours with the cover on; then set in a hot oven 
for twenty minutes, to dry and brown. 

Oatmeal Bread with Honey 

To a cupful of rolled oats add three cups of hot water, 
three quarters of a cup of honey, a heaping tablespoon of 
butter, and a level teaspoon of salt; stir the mixture thor- 
oughly and when cooled to blood heat add a yeast cake that 
has been dissolved in a half cup of water. Stir in enough 
flour to make a kneading dough; knead, then set to raise six 
hours, then mold into two loaves, raise again, and \frhen 
the pans are three quarters full bake forty to fifty minutes. 
Brush over the tops of the loaves with one te? spoon of 
honey blended with two of milk. 

Steamed Brown Bread 

Two cups of sour milk in one of which a heaping tea- 
spoon of soda is to be dissolved, when it foams add one cup 



Dread 393 

of sweet milk, one cup of rye meal, one cup of corn meal, one 
cup of molasses, a level saltspoon of salt; mix well, put into 
a steamer and steam four hours, then bake slowly for one 
hour. 

Rye Bread 

For rye bread use one pint of milk, scalded, one pint of 
water, a level teaspoon of salt, one yeast cake dissolved in a 
half a cup of cold water; mix and add, slowly sifting in, one 
quart of rye flour. Beat hard for five minutes, then add 
enough flour to make the dough of kneading consistency. 
Knead until the dough is free from all stickiness, then 
return it to the floured pan and allow it to rise for three 
hours. Turn it back onto the board, shape the loaves, and 
place them in buttered baking pans, baking them from thirty 
to forty minutes, testing with a straw. 

Pulled Bread 

Take a loaf of two-day-old bread, preferably French 
bread, and trim off the crusts, then tear the bread apart 
with two forks into pieces a little larger than an egg; place 
these on a tin in a cool oven and when they are thoroughly 
dry increase the heat and allow them to become a delicate, 
even brown color. 

Bread Sticks 

When making bread and shaping it to put in the pans 
take off a small lump, roll it out, and cut strips seven inches 
long from it. Roll these about the size of a lead pencil, lay 
them on a buttered baking pan, and allow them to rise 
until they double in size. Then bake in a quick oven for 
fifteen jbo eighteen minutes. 

QUICK HOT BREAD 

Regardless of the menace of indigestion the average 
person is very fond of hot bread, and those who have 



394 Bread 

sojotirned in the South return home to tell of breakfasts at 
which seven kinds of hot bread were served and vow that 
they will insist on having the same dainties here in the 
North. But somehow Northern people seem to cling to the 
morning toast or one or two varieties of muffins as their 
only indulgence in this line. 

Perhaps it is because it seems too much trouble to provide 
the hot breads or the baker is too handy. However, if on© 
gets the habit it really takes but thirty minutes to turn out 
the perfect product — ten for the making and twenty for the 
baking — not a serious outlay of time considering the homy 
touch and taste it engenders in the family circle. 

Of course the best quick biscuits are made from the raised 
dough. Other possibilities besides the biscuits are the 
rusk, the fried bread, and the old-fashioned raisin rolls. 
These take a little more time than the hot rolls and other 
breads made with baking powder, but are well worth the 
trouble at least once a week. 

Hot Raised Biscuit 

When the bread dough is ready to put in the pans pinch 
enough biscuits off the dough and roll them in small balls. 
Lay them in rows in buttered pans, pricking the top of each 
with a fork, and let them rise to double their size. Put a 
httle lump of butter between every two. Bake them twenty 
minutes. 

Fried Bread 

When the bread dough is ready for the pans cut off a 
good sized piece, roll it out on a floured board, and cut strips 
half an inch thick and four inches long. Roll them round 
between the hands and lay them on a flotired board, allow- 
ing three to each member of the family and a few over. Let 
them rise until they puff up, then have ready a kettle of 
hot lard and fry them to a delicate brown. Heap them on 
a platter in a napkin and serve with maple syrup or hot 
honey. 



Bread 395 

Rusk 

Take one pint of milk, one egg, three quarters of a cup of 
sugar, one half cup of butter, one half teaspoon of salt, and 
three quarters of a compressed yeast cake dissolved in 
half a cup of cold water. Add flour enough to make a stiff 
batter that can be stirred with a spoon. Let it rise till 
light, then mold into small cakes. Lay the cakes in a well 
buttered pan and let them rise again and bake to a delicate 
brown. Brush over the top with a buttered cloth and 
sprinkle with powdered sugar. A cup of seeded raisins or 
currants may be added if desired. 

; Sally Lmm 

Take one pint of flour, two teaspoons of baking powder, 
and half a teaspoon of salt. Beat two eggs, whites and 
yolks separately; add half a cup of sweet milk to the yolks, 
stir slowly into the floiu", adding one half cup of melted 
butter, beat thoroughly, then add last the beaten whites of 
the eggs. Bake in well buttered warm muffin pans, filling 
them two thirds full; bake about twenty minutes. 

Egg Puffs 

Mix one pound of sifted flour with one tablespoon of 
baking powder, one teaspoon of salt, and two tablespoons 
of sugar. Beat three eggs, add them to two tablespoons of 
melted butter, mix all together, and add enough warm 
milk to make a moderately thin batter. Fill well greased 
hot mufiin tins half full and bake quickly. 

Popovers 

Take one egg, beating white and yolk separately; one cup 
of sweet milk, one cup of flour, and a pinch of salt. Beat all 
together, adding the white of the egg last. Bake twenty 
minutes in buttered muffin tins. 



396 Bread 

Sweet Potato Buns 

Boil and mash one large sweet potato, roll into it as much 
flour as will make it like bread, add spice and sugar to taste, 
with a spoonful of yeast, a quarter yeast cake dissolved in 
cold water. When it has risen, work in a good sized piece 
of butter and bake it in small rolls, to be eaten hot. 

Banana Popovers 

Take one cup and a half of banana flour, one egg, the 
white and yolk beaten separately, a saltspoon of salt, three 
quarters of a cup of sweet milk or half a cup of whipped 
cream; mix aU together, beat lightly, and pour into warm 
thinly buttered pans. Bake in a medium oven about 
twenty minutes, but the time must be judged by the way 
the popovers brown. 

Quick Biscuits 

Sift two cups of flour, two teaspoons of salt, and two tea- 
spoons of baking powder into the mixing bowl; then put in 
alternately foiu: tablespoons of olive oil and three quarters 
of a cup of milk; stir the mixture lightly with a spoon, turn 
on floured board, roU out, and cut desired size. Bake in 
shallow pans in a quick oven. 

Com Pone 

Take a heaping coffee cupful of boiled hominy, beat it and 
thin it with a tablespoon of butter, three eggs, and a pint of 
sweet milk. Add as much cornmeal as will serve to thicken 
the mixture until it is Uke the batter for johnnycake. 
Bake in a quick oven and serve hot. 

Egg Rolls 

Beat two eggs into one cup of milk, add one tablespoon of 
melted butter, one cup of flour, one teaspoon of baking 



Bread 397 

powder; mix well, then add enough flour to make the dough 
stiff enough to roll. Cut into small rounds and bake in a 
hot oven. 

Dainty Biscuits 

Work four ounces of butter into a quart of flour. Add 
enough milk to make it into paste and knead it well. Roll 
very thin and cut small. Bake a very delicate brown. 

Rice Gems 

Take a half cup of butter and melt it over the teakettle. 
Mix two cups of sugar with four eggs, beat thoroughly, 
and then add the melted butter. Sift together one and a 
half cups of rice flour and one and a half cups of wheat 
flour and one teaspoon of baking powder; mix thor- 
oughly, then add a half cup of cream, beat the batter 
light and pour it into well greased pans, baking in 
a hot oven ten to fifteen minutes. Sometimes a few drops 
of lemon juice is added to the gem batter, but this is a matter 
of taste. 

Scotch Scones 

Put one quart of flour in a mixing bowl with one teaspoon 
of sugar, a half teaspoon of salt, and two teaspoons of bak- 
ing powder. Rub in one large tablespoon of lard, two beaten 
eggs, and three quarters of a pint of milk. Mix the dough 
smooth and turn it onto the molding board. Roll it out an 
eighth of an inch thick, cut into squares the size of a soda 
cracker, and fold over the diagonal corners to make them 
three-cornered. B ake on a hot griddle eight or ten minutes, 
cooking them a delicate brown on both sides. 

Ham MtiflSns 

These muffins are a Mexican dainty and are unusual 
enough to be interesting. They are quite easily made. 



398 Bread 

Beat one quarter of a cup of butter to a cream ; add gradually 
three quarters of a cup of cold boiled ham chopped very 
fine, a well beaten egg, one cupful of graham flour, and one 
cupful of white flour sifted with two heaping teaspoons 
of baking powder, and a cup of sweet milk. Have the 
mufiSn tins hot and well buttered, and bake the muffins 
for twenty-five minutes. This recipe was one of twenty- 
three prize winning recipes selected from eighty-five hun- 
dred submitted in a recent contest under the auspices 
of the General Chemical Company for Ryzon Baking 
Powder. 

Com Muffins 

Take one cup of yellow cornmeal, one half cup of flour, a 
tablespoon of sugar, one and a half teaspoons of baking 
powder, one beaten egg, one and a half cups of sweet milk, 
and a generous pinch of salt. Bake in hot greased gem pans 
from twenty to thirty minutes. 

Gluten MufSns 

Take two cups of gluten flour, two cups of milk, two tea- 
spoons of baking powder, one well beaten egg. Mix the dry 
ingredients, stir in the beaten eggs and milk, beat thoroughly 
together, andhalf fill well buttered gem pans. Bake twenty 
minutes. 

Chestnut Muflons 

Beat three eggs, their whites and yolks separately, add 
three quarters of a pint of sweet milk and a tablespoon of 
melted , butter, sift in one cup of chestnut flour with two 
teaspoons of baking powder. Beat the batter smooth, then 
add enough chestnut flour to bring the batter to a proper 
consistency, add also a pinch of salt, and half fill warm 
buttered muffin pans. Bake about twenty minutes. 



Bread 399 

Fruit Muffins 

Take one pint of flour, a quarter teaspoon of salt, two 
tablespoons of melted butter, a quarter cup of sugar, two 
small teaspoons of baking powder, one egg, and one cup of 
milk. Mix thoroughly as for plain muffins and add last of 
all one cup of fresh berries, seeded raisins, or finely chopped 
preserved fruit, dusted with a little flour. Bake in well 
greased muffin pans in a hot oven twenty minutes. See 
that the fruit is properly drained before being added. 
Blueberries will be found especially good in these muffins. 

Parker House Rolls 

This is a raised roll made from a famous old Boston 
recipe. Put two quarts of flour in the mixing bowl and 
put in the center of the flour two tablespoons of butter. 
Scald one quart of milk, turn it into the center of the 
flour, add a quarter cup of sugar, a level teaspoon of 
salt, and a yeast cake dissolved in three quarters of a cup of 
cold water. Dust a little flour over the top of the surface 
and set aside for three hours, then mix the dough together 
thoroughly and knead it until it is soft and elastic; do not 
add more flour unless absolutely necessary. Let it rise 
again, thenroU out about a half inch thick and cut in rounds 
with a good sized cutter, brush over with butter, and fold 
over envelope fashion. Then place the biscuits in a well 
buttered baking pan, far enough apart so they do not touch 
one another, let them rise for an hour and a half, then bake 
in a quick oven for twenty minutes. 

Hot Cross Buns 

Mix two pounds of flour, half a pound of well washed 
currants, a teaspoon of mixed spices, a yeast cake dissolved 
in three quarters of a cup of cold water, and a half pint of 
warm milk. Mix the batter thoroughly, add a teaspoon of 
salt, and set it to rise. When it fermentsadd a quarter of a 



400 Bread 

pound of melted butter and enough milk to make a soft 
paste. Dust with flour and let rise again, for half an hour. 
Shape the dough into buns and lay them apart on buttered 
tin plates in rows to rise for a half hour. Press the 
tops with a cross mold and bake in a quick oven. Pow- 
dered sugar may be sprinkled over the tops when the buns 
are done. This recipe makes two dozen buns. 

Com Bread 

Mix one tablespoon of butter with two tablespoons of 
sugar and beat to a cream, add the yolks of two eggs and the 
beaten whites, stirring well, sift in one cup of commeal, one 
cup of wheat flour, and two level teaspoons of baking powder. 
Mix all together and add slowly one cup of milk. Pour the 
mixture into a buttered and lightly floured baking pan, and 
bake in a medium oven for fifteen minutes. 

Nut Bread 

Sift together three cups of pastry flour, three level tea- 
spoons of baking powder, a teaspoon of salt, and three 
quarters of a cup of sugar, add one cup of chopped nut- 
meats, one egg beaten light, and one cup of milk. Mix 
and beat the dough until it is smooth, turn into a square 
buttered bread pan, and bake forty-five minutes. 

Unleavened Bread 

Take three cups of white flour, a half cup of thick sweet 
cream, a saltspoon of salt, and a half cup of cold water. 
Sift the flour in the mixing dish, adding the salt and cream, 
then rub together thoroughly. Then moisten with enough 
cold water to make the mixture of the consistency of thick 
pie crust. Knead and roll with the hands steadily for 
fifteen minutes on a floured board. Then roll the dough 
to about a quarter of an inch in thickness, cut it into four- 
inch squares, mark the squares in half across the top, so 



Bread 401 

that when baked they may be easily broken, and prick each 
square with a fork to keep them from blistering. Lay 
on floured baking tins and bake in a quick oven, being 
careful not to bum or scorch. 

Scotch Oat Cakes 

Put a half pound of fine Scotch oatmeal into a mixing 
bowl. In a cup put a pinch of baking soda and a piece 
of butter the size of a hazelnut; add a half cup of hot water 
and stir until the butter is all melted. Then mix with the 
meal in the bowl, using a thin bladed knife; when the mix- 
ture is blended, turn out onto a molding board and knead 
it with the knuckles, keeping it round and not letting it 
crack at the edges. Strew plenty of dry meal over it and 
roll with a crimped roller, brushing oflf all the loose meal 
which does not adhere to the dough. Roll about as thick as 
anoldcoppercent;thencutthe cake in three pieces and place 
themona griddle to toast. As they get done, move them to 
a hotter place. Try them with the thumbnail to see when 
they are done, and, if they have ceased to be doughy, 
remove them to a toaster to dry but do not let them 
btun. 

Scotch Short Bread 

Beat one pound of butter to a cream, gradually sift into it 
two pounds of flour, then add a quarter of a pound of sugar, 
half an ounce of caraway seeds, one ounce of blanched sweet 
ahnonds cut in pieces or chopped, and a pinch of salt; work 
the paste until it is quite smooth and divide it into six equal 
pieces, put each cake on a separate piece of thick writing 
paper, roll the paste out square to the thickness of about 
an inch, and ornament all sides with the tines of a silver 
fork. Prick the top of the cakes well with the fork and orna- 
ment them with strips of candied orange peel. Put the cakes 
into a good oven and bake them twenty-five minutes. 
26 



402 Bread 

Scotch Cakes 

Cream together one pound of butter and three quarters 
of a pound of brown sugar, a tablespoon of caraway seeds, 
a teaspoon of cinnamon, and a pound and a half of flour. 
Mix well, roll, cut in squares, and bake from fifteen to 
twenty minutes. 

Yorkshire Pudding 

Take a half pound of flour, one half teaspoon of salt, one 
teaspoon of baking powder, mix smooth with a half pint of 
milk, then add two tablespoons of melted butter and the 
other half pint of milk. Bake in a quick oven and serve 
under the roast English fashion. 

Maryland Beaten Biscuits 

Rub together one quart of flour, one teaspoon of salt, 
one tablespoon of butter, add one cup of cold water to 
make a stiff dough, then put on the board or a block and 
beat with a mallet for a half hour, when it will be brittle. 
Roll on the board and cut into half-inch thick rounds, prick 
with a fork like a cracker, and bake twenty minutes. 

English MufBns 

Heat in a double boiler one pint of milk and when hot 
add two tablespoons of butter and remove from the fire. 
When cool stir in a yeast cake that has been dissolved in a 
half cup of cold water, a level teaspoon of salt, and gradu- 
ally sift in one pint of flotu:. Beat all together, then cover 
and stand away in a warm place for two hours or a Uttle 
longer if not quite light. Lay greased muffin rings on a 
griddle, grease it lightly, and half fill rings with the muffin 
batter. Cook slowly, turning them with a pancake txirner, 
and when they are cooked sufficiently to slip from the rings 
cook a few minutes on either side but do not burn them. 
They may be eaten hot or when cold pulled apart and 
toasted. 



Bread 403 

WAFFLES 

Plain Waffle Batter 

Sift together one cup of flour, a saltspoon of salt, and a 
half teaspoon of baking powder ; add a teaspoon of sugar and 
two eggs beaten white and yolks separately, and stir in one 
cup of sweet milk. When all is beaten light and smooth 
the batter is ready to use. 

Rice Waffles 

Mix three cups of sifted flour with a saltspoon of salt, two 
cups of boiled rice, and a teaspoonful of baking powder. 
Mix three eggs with a cup of milk and make the batter very 
smooth. Have the wafile irons hot and well greased and 
cook immediately. 

French Waffles 

Sift one quart of flour into the mixing bowl, add a tea- 
spoon of salt and four tablespoons of olive oil; mix thor- 
oughly, then add the yolks of three eggs beaten into one 
and a haH pints of milk. Beat for five minutes. Set the 
batte'r aside and let it stand for thirty minutes, then add four 
level teaspoons of baking powder; beat it again and fold in 
the well beaten whites of the eggs, and the wafHe batter is 
ready for use. Brush the wafiie iron over with the oil. 

Sweet Potato Waffles 

Boil enough sweet potatoes so that when mashed they 
yield two cups; add two eggs, a half cup of sugar, a cup of 
melted butter, a pint of rich milk, and flour enough to make 
a thin batter. If the potatoes seem soggy, it is wise to add 
a half teaspoon of baking powder, but if they are light and 
dry this is not necessary. Bake the wafiles small and serve 
three to a portion, dusted with a little powdered sugar and 
lemon juice. 



404 Bread 

Banana Waffles 

Make a batter with two cups of banana flour, a level 
teaspoon of baking powder, a half teaspoon of salt, two 
beaten eggs, a teaspoon of sugar, and one cup of inilk. 
Beat until very smooth and cook. When done dust the 
waffles with powdered sugar and sprinkle with a few drops 
of lemon juice. 

PANCAKES 

If aluminum griddles or grills are used, they require 
no greasing, but a small amount of butter is added to the 
cake batter instead, which prevents it sticking. Thus 
the smoke which has always been objectionable from the 
greasy griddle is avoided. 

The raised griddle cake made with yeast has almost 
entirely lost favor, since modem baking powder or whipped 
eggs seem to have raising powers superior to the yeast and 
are infinitely more time-saving. Fresh eggs, sweet milk, 
good butter, and the right sorts of flours must be at hand 
for the most successful pancake making. The most satis- 
factory way of using the batter after it is made is to turn it 
into a pitcher that has a long, slender spout and pour the 
cakes of equal size. 

Wheat Cakes 

One quart of flour, three teaspoons of baking powder, 
and half a teaspoon of salt; sift well together and add sweet 
milk enough to make a soft batter. Bake the cakes at once 
on a hot griddle, being sure that they are thin. 

Glen House Flannel Cakes 

Put two ounces of butter into a pint of hot milk and let it 
melt, then add a pint of rich cold milk, four well beaten 
eggs, a teaspoon of salt, a half yeast cake dissolved in half a 
cup of cold water, and sufficient flour to make a stiff batter. 



Bread 405 

Set it in a warm place three hours to rise; then fry the cakes 
on a hot greased griddle and serve with hot maple syrup, 
fresh butter, and whipped cream. 

Buckwheat Cakes 

The buckwheat cakes are made in the same way as the 
wheat cakes only using buckwheat flour. To be good 
they must be Hght and thin. The sausage that may be 
served with them should be slipped from the cases or the 
loose sausage meat used. Place it in a bowl and season 
with a little finely powdered sweet herbs, a saltspoon of 
pepper, a half teaspoon of salt, a tablespoon of Worcester- 
shire sauce, two tablespoons of sweet cream, and the stiffly 
beaten white of one egg. Beat it thoroughly and form into 
flat, thin cakes that will fry quickly. Serve sandwich 
fashion between two cakes, and each sandwich is a portion. 
Serve with them a tureen of hot honey, or, if preferred, a 
thin chestnut sauce. A pound of sausage meat wiU make 
ten cakes. 

The old-fashioned buckwheat cakes, made with yeast and 
raised overnight, were very apt to become sour, and dis- 
agreeable effects often followed their eating. This is 
entirely obviated by the use of the baking powder, which 
makes the cakes much more wholesome. 

Many recipes lighten the flour by the addition of a 
small amount of fine Indian meal, others add a small 
quantity of banana flour, but this is a matter of taste 

Venetian Bread Cakes 

Remove the crumb of a five-cent loaf, soak in warm water 
two minutes, then wring dry in a towel; beat two eggs with 
the bread, two teaspoons of brown sugar, teaspoon of salt, 
one and a half teaspoons of baking powder; sift one pirit of 
flour, and, stirring the mixture, carefully add three quarters 
of a pint of milk. When the batter is thoroughly smooth, 
if it seems too thick add a little bit more milk and a tea- 



4o6 Bread 

spoon of melted butter. Cook the cakes on a well heated 
griddle; serve with them whipped cream, to which a little 
powdered sugar, a few drops of vanilla, and two teaspoons 
of finely ground walnut meats have been added. 

German Pancake 

One cup of flour, teaspoon of sugar, teaspoon of salt, 
yolks of three eggs beaten with a pint of milk; mix the 
batter and beat it smooth; just before cooking the cakes 
blend in the stiffly beaten whites of the eggs. Make the 
cake the size of the griddle; do not turn it. Sprinkle with 
powdered sugar and serve a little tureen of lemon juice 
with it. 

French Pancake 

Sift one cup of flour, a teaspoon of salt and teaspoon of 
baking powder together, add to it two well beaten eggs, 
beaten with a teaspoon of sugar and a pint of milk; mix into 
a thin batter, adding a teaspoon of melted butter. Make 
the cake rather larger than ordinary, spread it with jelly, 
and roll it; spriiikle with powdered sugar and serve in 
a napkin. 

Rice Pancakes 

The rice pancakes are made in the same way as are the 
wheat cakes except that rice flour is substituted for wheat 
flour. The quantities will remain about the same in both 
cases, but the cook must use her own discretion in the mix- 
ing of the batter. 

Potato Pancakes 

Grate four medium sized raw potatoes into a bowl, add 
half a cup of milk, half a teaspoon of salt, and two eggs. 
Beat all well together until the batter is light. Sift in two 
cups of flour, half a teaspoon of baking powder, and if the 



Bread 407 

batter is too heavy add a little more milk until it is the 
right consistency. Fry the cakes in the usual way and make 
them as thin as possible. Serve three to a portion after 
turning over them a little melted butter. 

Lentil Pancakes 

Take three heaping cups of lentil flour and half a cup of 
white flour and mix them together. Add a heaping tea- 
spoon of baking powder, a half teaspoon of salt, and a 
teaspoon of sugar. Mix and add a cup of milk, then fold in 
the stiffly beaten whites of two eggs. Beat the batter until 
light and add a little more milk if necessary. Fry and 
serve the cakes with a smooth rich tomato sauce. 

Lima Pancakes 

The lima pancakes are made the same as the lentil pan- 
cakes, only using lima bean flour in place of the lentil flour. 
These vegetable flours are new, and their handling is rather 
difficult until one gets the knack. They are light when dry, 
much lighter than the ordinary flour, and heavier when wet. 
For that reason the white of egg is used without the yolk for 
the ptupose of lightening the batter. The cheese sauce that 
is served with the lima pancakes has for its foundation a 
rich, light cream sauce, not thick and pasty, but creamy and 
well seasoned. Just before serving add, to every three cups 
of the sauce, three quarters of a cup of grated English 
cheese. 

Russian Pancakes 

Make a large thin wheat pancake, cook in the usual way, 
and when done spread with the following paste: One tea- 
spoon anchovy paste mixed smooth with two teaspoons of 
sweet butter. Spread the cake with this and sprinkle over 
it a tablespoon of caviar and a finely minced shalot, a few 
drops of lemon juice and a saltspoon of pepper. Roll the 
cake and serve hot. 



408 Bread 

Mocha Pancakes 

The plain wheat cake batter is used for these cakes, 
which are laid up jeUycake fashion with a mocha fiUing. 
Three are served to each portion, the top being dusted 
with a little powdered sugar and finely chopped nut meats. 
Make the mocha filling the same as for the layer cakes, 
only thinner, so it will spread easily. 

Austrian Pancakes 

The Austrian cakes are made of the wheat flour, thin and 
as large as a tea plate. When they are cooked have ready a 
fine hard sauce made of butter and sugar flavored with 
vanilla, having blanched almonds chopped through it, 
and spread each cake quickly and roll it. Serve two to a 
portion and pass peach marmalade with the cakes. 

Panama Pancakes 

These cakes are made of banana flour. The quantities 
are the same as for the wheat cakes. Pry the cakes a Uttle 
larger than usual and as thin as possible. For the sauce 
chop six bananas and fold them into two cups of whipped 
cream, then add a cup of honey, beating all smoothly 
together. 



DESSERTS 

Custards 

Custards in which gelatine is used are perhaps the most 
decorative in appearance when they are suitably molded, 
but these require a little more knack in the mixing than do 
the baked or boiled egg custards. Needless to say, only the 
freshest ingredients are permissible in this class of cookery ; 
the pturest of flavorings, rich sweet milk, pure cream, 
guaranteed eggs, and a fine-grained granulated sugar, with 
sweet butter, where used, and the best grade of powdered 
gelatine, are necessary for the desired results. In baking 
custards an even steady oven, not too hot, is best and 
they should be tested with a silver knife. After two or 
three bakings the most inexperienced cook will know how to 
judge them. If the custards are boiled use the double boiler, 
the upper recepticle preferably porcelain hned or of granite- 
ware, and be sure that the water in the under vessel is boil- 
ing when the custard is set over it and kept at boiling point 
until the cooking is done. Never allow it to get low enough 
not to surround the upper vessel; this insures a steady, even 
heat, which is often neglected and the resulting failure is 
an unexplained mystery to the cook. 

Boiled Custard 

Scald one quart of rich milk; into half of this put the 
yolks of five eggs beaten with three tablespoons of sugar 
and a pinch of salt, mix thoroughly and turn back into the 
rest of the milk. Cook until the milk thickens, which may 
generally be judged by the disappearance of foam from the 

409 



410 Desserts 

top. Cover, and when slightly cool add flavoring to taste 
and the stiffly beaten whites of the eggs, mixing thoroughly 
together. This plain custard often forms the basis of many 
other desserts. 

Baked Custard 

Beat four tablespoons of sugar with four fresh eggs, turn 
over them one quart of warm milk, stir thoroughly, and add 
the flavoring. FiU custard cups with the mixture and stand 
them in a baking pan three quarters full of warm water. 
Bake in a moderate oven until they are firm in the center. 
Remove from the fire and when cool, chill. 

Rice and Cheese Custard 

Take one cup of boiled rice, add to it two beaten eggs, a 
cup and a half of milk, a tablespoon of melted butter, a tea- 
spoon of sugar, salt and pepper, mix thoroughly, and grate 
thickly over the top English cheese. Bake and serve hot 
with the vegetable course. 

Old-Fashioned Floating Island 

Heat one quart of milk to scalding but not boiling point; 
beat the yolks of four eggs with fotu- tablespoons of sugar, 
two teaspoons of extract of vaniUa, and pour gradually over 
them one cup of the hot milk; then turn all into a saucepan 
and boil until it begins to thicken. When cool turn over 
thinly sliced sponge cake spread with jam and arrange in a 
deep compote. Beat the egg whites very, very stiff, whip- 
ping with them a little soft currant jelly. Drop the whip 
by tablespoons on top of the custard and place a httle block 
of currant jelly on the top of each island. Serve very cold. 

Modem Floating Island 

Make a good boiled custard and when it is cold turn it 
into a compote. Beat the whites of four eggs very stiff, 



Desserts 411 

adding a little powdered sugar and a dash of vanilla flavor- 
ing. Very lightly grease a baking dish and drop the mix- 
ttire into it by spoonfuls; lightly brown them one minute 
or two in the oven, then dot the top of the custard with 
them, heaping them in the center. Chill and serve. 

Tapioca Custard 

Put two tablespoons of fine tapioca, after washing, in a 
double boiler with one pint of milk; cook and stir until the 
tapioca is transparent, then add the yolks of two eggs 
beaten with three tablespoons of sugar and a pinch of salt, 
and stir until thickened. Remove from the fire and when 
slightly cooled add the whites beaten stiffly; mix thoroughly, 
add the flavoring, and set away to chill. 

Syllabub 

This old fashioned dessert is made by whipping one quart 
of cream with one cup of powdered sugar, beating stiffly 
the whites of four eggs with a small cup of powdered sugar, 
then mixing together and adding a glass of white wine. 
Pour over sliced sugared fresh fruit in season. 

Peach Cobbler 

Peach cobbler is a good Southern dessert which at the 
height of the peach season is at its best. Line a deep, 
square baking pan with good, flaky pie crust, forming an 
ornamental edge, and butter the baking dish well, to make 
sure the crust will not stick. Take fine, ripe peaches and 
quarter them and lay thickly and closely in the crust, 
sprinkling with plenty of sugar. If the baking dish is deep 
enough, two layers may be used, and then a Httle thin sugar 
syrup may be added, to moisten it until the juice cooks out 
a bit. 

When the peaches are soft the cobbler is done, and it may 
be served hot with a good brandy sauce, or cold with plain 
whipped cream. 



4^2 Desserts 

Lemon Sponge 

Dissolve two ounces of gelatine in one and three fourths 
pints of water, strain it into a saucepan, and add three 
quarters of a pound of sugar, the juice of five lemons and the 
grated rind of one ; simmer gently for ten or fifteen minutes, 
strain, and let it stand until cold and it begins to stiffen. 
Beat the whites of three eggs very stiff, turn them into the 
mixture, and beat together until it is quite white, then turn 
into a mold that has been wet with cold water and set 
away to stiffen. When it is thoroughly cold and ready to 
serve turn onto a dish, garnish with cherries, and serve with 
whipped cream. 

Rhubarb Fool 

Stew two pounds of rhubarb, previously trimmed and 
wiped, add six to eight ounces of sugar, and the juice of a 
lemon, or some lemon-rind. When the rhubarb is tender, 
rub it into syrup through a fine sieve. When the pulp 
is cold, add to it one pint of cream (cold) or a pint of cus- 
tard. Serve in a glass dish. 

Rennet Custard 

Sweeten to taste one quart of rich milk, add to it one table 
spoon of liquid rennet, one teaspoon of vanilla, and two 
tablespoons of sugar. Turn into a glass dish and set near 
the stove where it will get warm. As soon as it begins to 
thicken set on the ice. Serve with any of the fresh fruits 
or with preserves. 

HALF A DOZEN ENGLISH TRIFLES 

The trifle is a dessert much favored by English people 
and is not met with in the United States very often, but it 
is well worth trying. It is a cold dessert which is served in 
a deep comport and is very decorative in appearance. 

The plain trifle is made in the following way : Cover the 



Desserts 413 

bottom of the trifle dish with little sponge cakes and maca- 
roons after thickly spreading them with jam, next turn 
over them a cupful of rich fruit syrup, grate over them a 
little lemon peel, and scatter two tablespoons of chopped, 
blanched almonds over them also. Have ready a smooth, 
rich boiled custard made with plenty of eggs, have it chilled, 
turn it over the cakes, and last of all put over the top a whip 
made of one pint of heavy whipped cream, three ounces 
of powdered sugar and the whites of two eggs whipped 
to a stiff froth; this is mixed with the whipped cream, a 
tablespoon of vanilla flavoring and a grating of nutmeg are 
added. Heap this lightly in mound form on top of the cus- 
tard and dot it with candied cherries and strips of angelica. 
It is a good idea to whip and drain the cream several hours 
before it is needed, thereby making sure that it is light 
and fluffy. 

Apple Trifle 

Make a rich smooth apple sauce, using about ten tart 
apples; when the sauce is cold cover the bottom of the trifle 
comport with it. Make a good custard and when it is 
chilled turn it over the apple sauce. Make the whip 
in the manner described in the foregoing recipe. 

Banana Trifle 

Slice four large bananas thinly, line the bottom of the 
comport with a layer of little sponge cakes, then cover the 
cake with a layer of the sliced banana. Take the juice of 
three lemons and three oranges, sweeten it quite sweet, and 
turn over the banana and cake. Make a smooth boiled 
custard, using a little banana flour in the thickening ; when it 
is cool add a little rose coloring to tint it a delicate pink, 
and when chilled turn it over the banana. Make the whip 
in the way indicatedbefore and garnish the top with candied 
rose leaves. 



414 Desserts 

Gooseberry Trifle / 

Stew carefully one quart of gooseberries with sufficient 
sugar to sweeten them and. reduce them to a pulp. When 
cold cover the bottomiof the trifle dish with them, then put 
in a layer of the chilled custard, and last of all the cream 
whip, dotting the top with blanched pistachio nuts and 
tiny cubes of mint jelly. 

Grape Trifle 

Take four pounds of Isabella grapes, wash and stem them 
andputthemin a porcelain-lined pot with a cup of water ; let 
them slowly melt and cook until they are done, then put 
them through a pur^e sieve or fine colander, add sugar to 
taste; cover the bottom of the trifle dish with sponge 
cake, then turn over the grape puree after it has been 
chiUed. Next put in a layer of the custard and last of all 
the whip. Garnish this trifle with half pecan nuts and half 
white grapes that have had their seeds removed. 

Grapefruit Trifle 

Remove the pulp from two large firm grapefruit; spread 
some macaroons with apricot jam and line the bottom of the 
comport with them, cover them with a layer of the grape- 
fruit ptilp, and sprinkle aU with powdered sugar. Make 
the boiled custard and when it is chilled color it a delicate 
green with the Breton coloring, heap the top with the whip, 
and garnish the top with candied mint leaves and candied 
violets. 

Indian Trifle 

Boil with one quart of milk the rind of half a large lemon 
until the milk is flavored with it, then remove the rind and 
stir in five heaping tablespoons of rice flour which has 
been moistened in cold milk. Add sugar to taste and boil 
gently five or six minutes, stirring constantly. Remove 



Desserts 4i5 

from the fire and when cold pour into a glass dish. When 
thoroughly chilled hollow out the center in any form desired 
and fill with a chilled, smooth custard. Blanch an ounce 
of sweet almonds, cut them in pieces, dot the top of the 
trifle with them, and lay a few cubes of currant jelly over 
the top. 

PUDDINGS 

Baked Apple Pudding 

Fill a pudding dish nearly full of thinly sliced tart apples, 
add a cup and a half of boiling water, and set on the top of 
the range covered closely until they begin to cook. Then 
add one cup of molasses in which a teaspoon of sugar and one 
of flour have been beaten, a grating of nutmeg, then cover 
with a soft rich bisctdt dough rolled a half inch thick and 
bake in moderate oven. Serve with hard sauce. 

Apricot Pudding 

Make a crust as for apple dumplings, roll out to a quarter 
of an inch thickness, and lay on a flotured cloth. Spread 
with two and a half cups of apricots that have been pared and 
cut up and allowed to stand one hour covered with one cup 
of sugar. Roll the pudding, tie it in the bag and plunge 
into boiling water, and boil evenly for one and a half hours. 
For the sauce use a cup and a half of sugar to three quarters 
of a cup of butter creamed together and whip into it one egg. 
Set over the teakettle to melt; when thoroughly blended 
add a wineglass of apricot brandy and nutmeg to taste. 

Bachelor's Pudding 

; Pare, core, and mince three large apples; add to these tour 
ounces of currants, four ounces of grated bread, and two 
ounces of sugar, a few drops of lemon, a grating of nutmeg, 
and three well beaten eggs; beat all together, pour into a 
buttered basin, tie down the cover, plunge into boiling water, 
and let boil three hours; serve with Rocky Mountain sauce. 



4i6 Desserts 

Blackberry Roly Poly 

' Free from fiber a piece of suet weighing slightly les^ 
than a half pound, skin and chop same. Add to it a half 
pound of flour and a quarter teaspoon of salt, mix enough 
water to make a tender dough, and roU out on a floured 
board until about an inch thick. Spread with carefully 
washed ripe blackberries, sugar them well, roll the dough 
about them, and place the roll in a floured cloth. Plunge 
it into boiling water and boil for two hours. Serve with any 
good pudding sauce. 

Boston Pudding 

One cup of sweet milk, one cup of molasses, one cup of 
finely chopped suet, one cup of raisins, currants, and citron, 
three cups of fiour, a dash of the different spices, a pinch of 
salt, and one teaspoon of soda. Mix well and steam for 
three hours. Serve with rich brandy, or Rocky Mountain 
sauce. 

Brown Bread Pudding 

Grate three quarters of a pound of stale brown bread; 
add to it a half pound of carefully chopped suet, half a pound 
of dried currants that have been thoroughly washed, a cup 
of sugar, four eggs, two tablespoons of cream, two of brandy, 
and a grating of nutmeg. Beat the ingredients together and 
turn into a well buttered mold. Tie it down tightly and 
boil for four hours. Serve with a good brandy sauce. 

Canary Pudding 

Take a scant half cup of butter and melt it, but do not let 
it boil; add a full half cup of sugar and the finely minced 
peel of one lemon. Sift in a half cup of flour and add three 
well beaten eggs. Beat all together. Pour into a buttered 
mold and boil two hours. Serve with a rich brandy sauce. 



Desserts 417 

Fig Pudding 

Chop two pounds of figs into small pieces, grate a half 
pound of bread crumbs fine and chop one pound of suet; 
mix all together, add a half pound of flour, two eggs, and 
milk enough to make the whole into a stiff paste. Butter a 
mold and press the pudding into it closely; tie it down with 
a cloth and boil it for three hours. Turn out on a platter 
and serve with wine sauce, melted butter, or cream as best 
liked. 

Fruit Pudding 

One cup of sweet milk, one cup of molasses, one cup of 
finely chopped suet, one cup of raisins, currants, and citron, 
three cups of flour, spices, salt, and one teaspoon of bak- 
ing powder. Steam for three hours and serve with a good 
brandy sauce. 

Ginger Pudding 

Mix six ounces of brown bread criunbs with three ounces 
of butter, a saltspoon of ground ginger, the juice of a lemon, 
and four ounces of sugar. Stir these in a stewpan until the 
butter is melted. Chop four ounces of preserved ginger 
and add to the mixture, with the yolks of two eggs. Beat 
well together and set aside to cool. Whip the whites of 
the eggs and stir into the pudding quickly. Fill a buttered 
pudding mold with the mixture, cover with a floured cloth, 
leaving room for the pudding to swell, and steam it for three 
hours. Serve with it a hot fruit sauce. 

Golden Pudding 

Put a quarter of a pound of dried bread crumbs into a 
basin with one quarter pound of very finely chopped suet; 
add a quarter of a pound of peach marmalade and a quarter 
of a pound of sugar, and when it has been well stirred to- 
gether, add fotu: well beaten eggs. Put the pudding into a 

27 



41 8 Desserts 

well buttered mold, tie it down with a floured cloth and boil 
for two hours. Any good pudding sauce that is preferred 
may be used with this pudding. 

John Bull's Own Pudding 

Chop one pound of suet fine, wash and dry one pound of 
currants, stone one pound of raisins and free the stalks from 
one pound of large layer table raisins ; one pound of sugar, 
one pound of chopped candied peel, one teaspoon of salt 
and one of mixed spice, half a pound of bread crtunbs, and a 
half pound of flour, mix together and add eight well beaten 
eggs to which a cup of brandy has been already added, 
pour over the mixture, and stir for twenty-five minutes until 
all of the ingredients are thoroughly blended. Butter a 
pudding mold and three quarters fill it with the mixture, 
cover very tightly so no water can get in, then boil for 
thirteen hours. When cold the pudding may be removed 
from the mold, wrapped in a brandied cloth, and set away 
until it is needed, then return it to the mold, cover tight, and 
boil one hour and it will be ready to serve ; pour over a wine- 
glass of brandy, garnish with holly, and send it to the table 
on fire. Brandy sauce goes with it. 

Military Pudding and Lemon Sauce 

Military pudding may be made in one large pudding or in 
individual puddings. Chop finely one half pound of suet, 
mix with a half pound of bread criunbs, half a pound of moist 
sugar; the juice of one large lemon and the grated rind. 
Stir the ingredients well, pour into buttered cups, bake a 
half hour and turn out into dishes, spread a meringue over 
the top, return it to the oven one minute to brown, and serve 
with lemon sauce. 

A good recipe for the lemon sauce is three quarters of a 
cup of sugar, creamed with one half cup of butter, to which 
add one egg beaten lightly, the juice of one lemon, a httle 
grated peel and nutmeg. Beat well; then add one half 



Desserts 419 

cup of boiling water, set over the teakettle, which must be 
kept boiling until the sauce is very hot, thoroughly smooth 
and melted but not boiled. 

Marlborough Pudding 

Beat a quarter pound of butter to a cream with a quarter 
pound of powdered sugar. Add four beaten eggs; then 
line a dish with good pie crust, spread a layer of jam in the 
bottom, then pour over the mixture, and bake the pudding 
for a half hour in medium oven. 

Meringue Pudding 

Beat to a stiff froth the whites of three fresh eggs, with 
one pound of sugar. Add the juice and grated rind of one 
lemon. Put a layer of sponge cake in the bottom of a 
glass dish, then a layer of the meringue, and repeat the 
layers until the meringue is used up. Dot the siurface with 
candied cherries and chill well before serving. 

Baked Orange Pudding 

Roll six ounces of stale sponge cake into fine crumbs 
and pour over them one pint of boiling milk. Grate the 
rind of two oranges and squeeze the juice of six over a half 
pound of sugar. Beat six eggs and stir them into the mix- 
ture. Sweeten it to taste and pour into a deep pie dish 
lined with puff paste. Bake for half an hour, sift with 
powdered sugar, and serve. 

Orange Batter Pudding 

Make a batter pudding of four eggs, one pint of milk, 
one and a half ounces of sugar, and three tablespoons of 
flour. Put the batter in a well buttered basin, tie it down, 
and boil one hottr; when done put on a platter, turn a jar of 
orange marmalade over the top, and serve with whipped 
cream. 



420 Desserts 

Peach Pudding 

Make a batter of one half cup of sugar, three tablespoons 
of melted butter, one beaten egg, one cup of milk, one pint 
of flour, and one and a half teaspoons of baking powder. 
Add to this a cup of finely cut peaches, bake in a loaf, and 
serve with Rocky Mountain sauce, made with a cup of 
sugar, three quarters of a cup of butter worked to a cream, 
one beaten egg, and a generous grating of nutmeg. Melt 
over a teakettle, and before serving add a wineglass of good 
brandy, stirring thoroughly, so that it is well blended. 

Pilgrim Pudding 

Peel and chop six tart apples, add six ounces of bread 
crumbs and six ounces of sugar, the grated peel of half a 
lemon, half teaspoon of salt, one glass of brandy, and a 
grating of nutmeg. Steam in a well buttered mold for 
three hours and serve with rich wine sauce. 

Popcorn Pudding 

Dissolve one and a half ounces of powdered gelatine in 
two cups of hot water, then add one cup of sugar, two cups 
of milk, one cupful of chopped popcorn, and cook for a few 
minutes. Cool and add the strained juice of three oranges, 
one gill of cream, and the whites of three eggs, beaten stiff. 
Beat all together until cool and then pour into a wet mold. 
Turn out and serve with whipped cream to which have been 
added a dozen dry powdered macaroons, a teaspoon of 
vanilla and a tablespoon of powdered sugar. 

Queen of Puddings 

One half pint of milk, one ounce of butter, one half pint 
of bread crumbs, one lemon, two eggs, two ounces of sugar, 
two or three tablespoons jam. 

Boil the milk with the butter and pour it over the bread 



Desserts 421 

crumbs ; let it soak for a few minutes, then add yolks of two 
eggs, the grated rind of a lemon, and the sugar. Pour into a 
buttered pie dish and bake till set. Take it out of the oven, 
spread it with jam, beat whites of eggs to a stiff froth, 
spread over the fop, and bake a pale brown. Sprinkle with 
sugar. 

Boiled Raisin Pudding 

Chop a half a pound of beef suet fine with a pound of 
stoned large raisins; add them to a pound of flour and a 
half teaspoon of salt; mix well and add enough milk to make 
a rather stiff dough. Place the mixture in a well floiu-ed 
pudding bag, plunge into boiling water, and boil four hours. 
Serve with brandy sauce or a Rocky Mountain sauce made 
quite sweet. 

Rhubarb Pudding 

Stew one and one half dozen stalks of rhubarb and a cup 
of brown sugar in a double boiler until tender. Drain and 
mash and mix with one pint of boiled rice, press into cups 
or one large mold, and set away to cool. Serve with 
whipped cream. 

Rice Pudding 

Take a cup and a half of boiled rice, add to it three well 
beaten eggs, a cup of cream, a cup of sugar, a gill of melted 
butter, and a half cup of sweet milk. Turn into a well 
buttered baking dish and see that it is three quarters full 
only. Bake until done, and when slightly cool spread with 
a layer of strawberry jam, covering that with a deep me- 
ringue, and return the dish to the oven for a minute or two 
so as to brown the top lightly. This may be served hot as 
it comes from the oven or chilled with cream. It makes 
a most delicious dessert and is much better than the usual 
rice pudding. 



422 Desserts 

Roly-Poly Mince Pudding 

Allow six ounces of beef suet, skinned, shredded, and 
chopped fine to a pound of flour and a hg,lf pint of water; 
add a saltspoon of salt and work to a smooth paste, roU 
out one inch thick, and spread with good naincemeat well 
seasoned; roll and pinch the ends together, lay in a floured 
cloth, put into boiling water, and boil two hours. Drain 
and serve with brandy sauce. 

Baked Indian Suet Pudding 

Warm three pints of sweet milk and when hot stir in 
three large handfuls of yeUow cornmeal; stir briskly until it 
thickens, then set aside to cool. When cool add three eggs, 
one quarter pound of finely chopped suet, four tablespoons 
of sugar, one cup of molasses, one pound of raisins, stoned, 
and a pinch of salt. Bake for two and a half to three hours 
and serve hot, though many hke the pudding cold as well. 

West Indian Pudding [ 

Break"six small sponge cakes in pieces, place them in the 
bottom of a pudding dish, and pour over them one pint of 
cream which has been sweetened with three quarters of a 
cup of sugar and brought to the boiling point. Cover 
the dish and let it stand until the cream has been soaked 
up by the cake. Beat eight eggs thoroughly and, when 
the cream is soaked up, stir them in. Butter a pudding 
mold and arrange around the sides pieces of thinly sliced 
preserved ginger; pour the pudding carefully in the center, 
adding a teaspoon of vanilla flavoring and a grating of 
nutmeg. Tie down with a floured cloth and steam or boil 
slowly for an hour and a half. When done, serve with a 
cup of heated ginger syrup turned over. This makes a very 
dainty and delicious pudding, not as heavy or hearty as a 
baked pudding. 



Desserts 423 

PUDDING SAUCES 

Rocky Mountain Sauce 

Take one cup of sugar, three quarters of a cup of butter; 
beat them to a cream; add one beaten egg, the grating of a 
quarter of a nutmeg, and a half gill of brandy, or a gill of 
sherry wine. Beat thoroughly and set in a bowl over the 
teakettle until all is smoothly melted. Serve with plum 
pudding, or any other heavy fruit pudding. 

Hard Sauce 

To one cup of powdered sugar use a half cup of butter, 
work together very smooth; add a small grating of nut- 
meg, a teaspoon of vanilla flavoring, and set aside to chill. 
Serve with any of the baked or fruit puddings. 

Pastal Sauce 

Pastal sauce is a smooth yellow custard made thin 
enough to pour, and the top is covered with candied rose 
and mint leaves, violets and pinks, while chopped through 
the sauce are raisins, angelica, citron, and orange peel. It 
is very decorative over a dark fruit pudding or over an 
angel charlotte. 

Duchess Sauce 

Boil two tablespoons of grated chocolate in a half pint of 
milk for five nainutes; strain on two well beaten egg yolks 
that have been beaten with a half gill of cream and half a 
cup of sugar. Strain, return to the fire, and stir until it 
reaches the thickness of cold honey. Add a teaspoon of 
vanilla flavraing and it is ready to serve. 

Foamy Sauce 

Whip the white of one egg and a half cup of powdered 
sugar to a stiff froth; add one cup of whipped cream, mix 



424 Desserts 

lightly together, and flavor with one tablespoon of sherry. 
Set aside to chill. 

Caramel Sauce 

Put one and a half cups of brown sugar, three ounces of 
grated chocolate, and a half cup of cream into a saucepan; 
cook over hot water until all is smooth, then allow it to boil 
until a drop forms a jellylike ball when dropped into cold 
water. Add a teaspoon of vanilla flavoring and it is ready 
to serve. 

Lemon Sauce 

Boil one cup of sugar and one cup of water together until 
a drop forms a soft ball when dropped into cold water. 
Remove from the fire, add the juice of a lemon, and serve. 

SHORTCAKES 

Shortcake k la Panchard 

Beat six ounces of butter with ten ounces of sugar to a 
cream, then add three eggs, one at a time, and two gills 
of milk; when thoroughly mixed add two teaspoons of 
vanilla, then sift in one pound of flour with two teaspoons 
of baking powder. Cream all together and fill three shallow 
buttered and lightly floured jelly cake tins fuU, and when 
baked turn out to cool. When ready to lay up, cover each 
layer with a Httle vanilla pastry cream, then a layer of finely 
cut ripe peaches sifted with sugar, then add another layer 
of cake, and so on until finished, covering the top with 
sweetened whipped cream. 

Banana Shortcake 

Slice eight bananas into a bowl, turn over them a pint of 
fcold vanilla syrup, and let stand while the cake is cooking. 
Take one pint of flour, two teaspoons of baking powder, 



. Desserts 425 

half teaspoon of salt, a quarter cup of butter, and enough 
milk to make a stiff dough. Mix the dry ingredients to- 
gether, work in the butter with the hand, and add the milk 
slowly. Put onto the molding board, divide in half, 
divide each half again, then roll out or pat out the pieces 
until they fit shallow buttered jelly ckke tins, place one piece 
in the tin, then butter the top of the dough and lay a sec- 
ond piece on top, so that the four bake in two pans. When 
done the cakes may be readily split and the filling be placed 
between them after the cakes have been buttered. Turn 
a little extra vanilla syrup over the top so that all edges are 
moistened, then heap with whipped cream and serve. 

Apricot Shortcake 

Pare and halve four pounds of apricots, put them in 
a deep dish with three cups of sugar and the juice of a 
lemon. Let stand two hours, stirring occasionally. Set in 
the sun or a warm place. Make an old-fashioned biscuit 
cake, and when done split and butter freely. Drain the 
apricots and fill the cake with them; then put on the top 
layer of crust and heap with the fruit. Pour over it a 
generous quantity of the fruit juice, but save a pitcherful 
to turn over each portion as served. Plain cream may be 
served with the shortcake, if desired. 

Rhubarb Shortcake 

For the rhubarb shortcake biscuit dough will be found 
the best. Use half a pound of flour, half a teaspoon of 
salt, two of baking powder, two tablespoons of lard, one 
of butter, and a half pint of milk; mix the butter and lard 
with the dry ingredients, slowly add the milk, and when 
thoroughly mixed divide in half, smoothing each into a well 
buttered tin. Bake for twelve to fifteen minutes in a quick 
oven, then remove, split, butter, and fill with a rich 
rhubarb stew which is quite spicy and sweet. Garnish the 
top with whipped cream and a few maraschino cherries. 



426 Desserts . 

Jam Shortcake 

Make a biscuit dough shortcake and when baked split 
the layers and butter them thickly. Put in a thick layer 
of apricot jam, and spread another layer on top. Have 
ready melted a tumbler of apricot jelly, turn over all, and 
heap the top of the cake with whipped cream. 

Blueberry Shortcake 

For blueberry shortcake make the shortcake a little 
richer than biscuit dough, and when done spUt it into layers, 
fill each layer with the berries that have been mashed up in 
sugar, and when ready to serve add a fluff of whipped 
cream over the top. 

Orange Shortcake 

Cut in pieces ten oranges, removing seeds and as much of 
the white skin as possible. Add to them two cups of sugar, 
juice of two lemons, and one cup of grated pineapple. Let 
stand and chill. Make a good shortcake dough — ^bread 
dough is preferable — and bake in two shallow pans. When 
done spUt, butter generously, fill with the orange mixture, 
draining off some of the juice. This may be made into two 
cakes on the platter, or one high one of four layers. Pour 
over the cakes enough of the juice to moisten them sufii- 
dently; serve the rest in a small tureen so that it may be 
turned over each portion. 

Strawberry Shortcake 

Wash and top two quarts of fresh ripe strawberries; if the 
berries are large cut them in half and add to them two cups of ; 
sugar. Set aside and let stand three or four hours, stirring , 
often. Make the shortcake of biscuit dough and when done 
spUt it in half and butter generously. Put in the berries 
and put them also over the top. Keep a cup of the juice 



Desserts 427 

to serve in a pitcher with the shortcake. If there is little 
juice left after laying up the cake take a cup of sugar, melt 
it with a half cup of water, let it cook three minutes, and add 
a little of the remaining juice to it and serve with the cake. 

Austrian Apple Strudel 

Mix one pint of flour with a half cup of water, add four 
ounces of butter, a pinch of salt, and three eggs. Mix until 
smooth and roll the dough out on a floured board, as thin 
as possible. Have ready two cups of chopped apples, a cup 
of seeded raisins, a cup of sugar, and a teaspoon each of 
cinnamon and cloves and a grating of nutmeg mixed to- 
gether. Spread the dough lightly with some fresh butter, 
and sprinkle the fruit mixture over it. Roll the strudel, 
butter it over the outside, and bake. 

Poached Apricots 

Poached apricots are made by placing halves of very 
ripe, fresh fruit, or firm preserved fruit, on pieces of sponge 
cake, surrounding them with whipped cream to make them 
look hke poached eggs. Slightly sweeten the cream and 
add a tiny scraping of the soft inside of vanilla bean for 
flavoring and put a spoonful of the apricot juice over the 
sponge cake. 

Apple Dumplidgs 

Mix one quart of flour with a teaspoon and a half of bak- 
ing powder and a saltspoon of salt. Add a large tablespoon 
of butter and lard mixed, and enough sweet milk to make a 
soft dough. Roll out rather thick, cut into squares, in 
which a pared and quartered apple is placed, with sugar 
and a pinch of cinnamon sprinkled over it. Pinch the edges 
together, place in a deep pan with a lump of butter on each, 
and sprinkle with sugar and cinnamon. Fill the pan with 
boiling water, leaving only the top of the dumplings exposed, 
and bake forty-five minutes. Serve with hard gauce. 



428 Desserts 

TARTS AND SWEET FRITTERS 

Banana and Damson Tart 

Line a deep pie dish with thin paste. On it arrange a 
layer of sliced bananas (eight are used, sUced lengthwise). 
Next a mixture of two tablespoons of sugar, a little grated 
lemon peel, and three dessertspoons of rum is sprinkled 
over the bananas. The dish is fiUed up with preserved 
damsons, with a Uttle of their juice, and the whole is cov- 
ered with a light, short crust. Bake three quarters of an 
hour in an even oven. The tart may be served hot or 
cold, according to taste, with a sauce composed of the yolk 
of one egg mixed with twice its weight of cream, one 
tablespoon of rum, and a wineglass of the plum syrup for 
sweetening. 

Frangipane Tart 

Mix half an ounce of flour with a little milk. Simmer a 
scant pint of milk with two bay leaves, a Uttle lemon rind» 
and a pinch of grated nutmeg for about fifteen minutes. 
Strain this into the flour thickening. Add three ounces 
of butter, the same weight of sugar, eight eggs, beaten 
lightly. Allow the mixture to simmer until thick, but be 
careful that it does not boil. Line patty tins with puff 
paste and fill with the mixture after it has become cold. 
Bake twenty-five minutes in a moderate oven. 

Maids of Honor 

Take one cup of sweet milk and one cup of sour milk, put 
in a double boiler over boiling water and let stand long 
enough to set the curd. When set, strain off the milk and 
rub the curd through a sieve. Add to it a tablespoon of 
melted butter, a cup of sugar, yolks of four eggs, juice of one 
lemon, and a little of the grated peel. Have ready tartlet 
pans, Uned with puff paste crimped at the edges; after 
beating the mixture, pour it into the tarts and bake. 



Desserts 429 

Peach Pufflets 

Mix one pint of flour, a pinch of salt, and one and a half 
teaspoons of baking powder, with enough milk to make a 
soft batter. Put into well greased little cups a spoon 
of batter and a spoon of cut-up peaches, then another of bat- 
ter; steam in steamer twenty minutes and serve with hard 
or good brandy sauce. 

Fanchonettes 

Panchonettes are made like the old-fashioned custard pie, 
only they are the size of tarts. Prepare the crust in little 
patty pans and fill with a custard made of four yolks of 
eggs, two ounces of butter, two tablespoons of sugar, two 
beaten whites of eggs, three dessertspoons of flour, and three 
quarters of a pint of milk. Blend smoothly and bring 
to boiling point in a granite saucepan, then fill the tarts 
and bake in a meditun oven. When done whip the other 
two whites of eggs with two tablespoons of sugar for a 
meringue and let it lightly brown in the oven. When cold 
serve on a doily garnished with strips of angelica. 

Gooseberry Tart 

Line the tartlet pans with a good puff paste. With a 
pair of kitchen scissors top and tail one pint and a half of 
fresh gooseberries; fill the tartlet pans with the berries, 
piled high and covered with sugar. Lattice the top with 
crust and bake. Serve with a little sifted sugar'over the top 
and a pitcher of sweet cream. 

White Grape Tart 

Line ramekin dishes with rich puff paste and bake in a 
brisk oven for about ten minutes. Let the paste cool, then 
fill with white grapes. Take six ounces of icing sugar, mix 
with one and a half tablespoons of water and a few drops of 
vanilla essence. Let cook for a few minutes and use while 
hot to glac6 over the grapes. 



430 Desserts 

Marron Tart 

Make the tartlets of good.pufiE paste, and prepare the 
following mixture for a filling: One sweet pineapple, diced; a 
small bottle of preserved marrons cut in small pieces, and 
three tablespoons of ginger syrup. Fill the tartlets with 
this mixture, spreading a teaspoon of currant jelly on top 
of each, and bake a delicate brown. When ready to serve 
put a teaspoon of whipped cream on top of each tartlet 
with a half marron in the center. 

Polish Tarts 

Roll the puff paste thin and cut it into two-and-a-half- 
inch squares. Brush with the white of egg and turn down 
the points so that they meet in the middle. Sift a little 
sugar over them and bake fifteen minutes in a quick oven. 
When they are done fill the center with jam. 

Rhubarb Fritters 

Wipe six or eight sticks of rhubarb, and cut them into 
two-inch pieces. Make a batter with four ounces of sifted 
flour, a pinch of salt, a gill of milk, and the whites of two 
eggs beaten stiff. Let this stand for about an hour; dip 
the pieces of rhubarb in the batter, so that each piece is 
well covered; drop them into hot fat, or clarified drippings, 
and fry till they are a golden brown. Drain the fritters on 
a cloth or paper, dredge them with powdered sugar, place on 
a hot dish, and serve them very hot. If extreme sweetness 
is desired, the rhubarb can be parboiled in a sjrrup and 
drained before being fried. 

JELLIED DESSERTS 

Apricot Brandy Jelly 

Put one pound of sugar and one and a half pints of water 
in a stewpan to boil, skim it until it is clear. Simmer 



Desserts 431 

two ounces of gelatine in a half pint of water and skim 
that carefully. Put together and add the juice of two lemons 
and bring to the boiling point. Add a half pint scant 
measure of apricot brandy, let it stay covered and melt 
together, then strain into a mold and put upon the ice. 
When ready to serve dip the mold into hot water, 
loosen the edges with a knife and slip it onto the plate. 
It is usually served with ice cream, though whipped cream 
may be used, with a little preserved ginger on the side. 

Burgtmdy Cream 

Take one pound of strawberries, a half a pound of sugar, 
the juice of one lemon, a half glass of white wine, and 
a half ounce of powdered gelatine dissolved in a little 
water. Warm and melt all well together, then add a pint 
of whipped cream. Pour into a mold and set away to jell. 

Jellied Dates 

Cut half a pound of dates in halves and remove their 
stones; put them in a saucepan with one and a half cups 
of water and three tablespoons of sugar and cook them 
slowly until they are soft. Then add a heaping tablespoon 
of powdered gelatine which has been melted in the juice of 
an orange, a tablespoon of vanilla flavoring, and a few 
drops of green coloring. After stirring all together, pour 
into a wet ring mold. When chilled and ready to turn out, 
place on a platter and fill the center with whipped cream 
which has been slightly sweetened and to which a quarter 
cup of chopped pecan nuts has been added. 

Fruit Jelly 

Dissolve one package of gelatine in one half cup of cold 
water. Add one pint of boiling water, one cup of sugar, 
juice of two lemons, and one half pint of grape juice. Cool 
and add one cup of finely chopped walnuts, one cup of 



432 Desserts 

Malaga grapes, halved and seeded, and one half cup of 
maraschino cherries. ChiU and serve with sweetened 
whipped cream. 

Macedoine of Fruits with Jelly 

Into a mold that has been on ice cut some firm fruit in 
small pieces and sprinkle it Ughtly with powdered sugar. 
Make an ordinary jelly flavored with wine, and when it is 
cold, but just beginning to stiffen, fill the mold and set 
away to harden. When ready to serve turn onto a platter 
and cover with whipped cream. Serve pound cake with it. 

Orange Cream 

Squeeze the juice of six oranges and one lemon into a 
saucepan with one and a half ounces of gelatine and sufficient 
water to make in all a pint and a half. Rub sugar on the 
orange and lemon rinds and add to the mixture. Simmer 
all together for about ten minutes, then strain through a 
muslin bag and beat a half pint of good cream with it. 
Wet a mold and pour in the cream to set. Put on ice 
until ready to serve. Whipped cream may be used if 
desired with it. 

Raspberry Bavarian Cream 

Soak half a package of gelatine for two hours in half a 
cupful of water. In the meantime mash a quart of rasp- 
berries with a cupful of sugar and let them stand an hour. 
Whip a pint of cream to a stiff froth. Pour half a cupful of 
boiling water on the gelatine and strain it onto the juice. 
Put the liquid in a saucepan in a pan of water with ice in it. 
Beat the Uquid until it is stiff as custard; stir in a pint of 
whipped cream. Put into the icebox to chill and serve 
with cream. 

Russian Cream 

Beat the yolks of four eggs with one cup of sugar, then add 
one quart of milk and cook like a custard. Take from the 



Desserts 433 

stove when slightly thickened and add the beaten whites of 
the eggs, stir well together for a few moments, then add a 
half box of gelatine dissolved in one pint of warm water and 
the strained juice of a lemon. Pour into a wet mold and 
set away to harden. Served with whipped cream, this is a 
very pretty dessert, for if it is made just right, the jelly 
forms the top layer, when turned out, with the spongy 
cream at the bottom. Be sure that the mold is well wet 
before the mixture is turned into it, so that the cream will 
turn out perfectly when it is chilled. 

Spanish Cream 

Soak one half box gelatine in one quart of milk for one 
hour. Then put on the fire and stir until it begins to 
thicken. Add the yolks of three well beaten eggs and a cup 
of sugar. When it comes to boiling point strain into a mold 
and flavor with vanilla. Beat the whites with three table- 
spoons of sugar, flavor with vanilla, and use as a sauce when 
the cream is ready to serve. 

Strawberry Cream 

Soak one and one half tablespoons of granulated gelatine 
in one fourth cup cold water and dissolve in one third cup 
boiling water. Add one cup syrup made from fresh straw- 
berries and more sugar if not sweet enough. Set bowl con- 
taining mixture in pan of iced water and stir until mixture 
begins to thicken; then fold in cream. 

Tutti Frutti Jelly 

Make a regular lemon jelly by dissolving three heaping 
tablespoons of gelatine in one and a half cups of warm water, 
and adding two cups of sugar, one gill of lemon juice, a little 
grated lemon peel, three cloves, one inch of cinnamon, and 
one teaspoon of coriander seeds. Beat all together, allow 
them to come to boiling point, and then let stand for five 



434 Desserts 

minutes, and strain carefully. Have ready three medium 
sized peaches thinly sliced, one banana thinly sHced, a half 
cup of chopped and seeded raisins, a half cup of candied 
cherries, chopped with two strips of angelica, and one slice of 
candied pineapple. When the jelly is cool stir the fruit into 
it, turn all into a wet mold, and set away to chiU. Serve 
very cold with plain cream. 

Isinglass, gelatine leaves, and agar-agar may be used in 
place of gelatine powder if desired; the latter may be 
procured at any drug store and is used in the same way 
as the gelatine. 

FRUIT DESSERTS 

Apple Meringues 

Stew two pounds of apples that have been quartered, 
pared, and seeded with four ounces of sugar until tender. 
Beat the yolks of six eggs with two ounces of sugar and potu* 
over them one pint of boiling hot milk. Put this custard into 
a saucepan and cook until it is as thick as cornstarch pud- 
ding, drain the apples and arrange them in a dish, pour the 
custard over them, beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth 
with a little powdered sugar, cover the custard with the 
meringue, and place in the oven until lightly browned. 
This pudding may be served hot or chilled with whipped 
cream, according to taste and season. 

Apple Snow 

Peel and grate one large sour apple, sprinkling it with a 
cup of powdered sugar as you grate to keep it from turning 
dark, break into it the whites of two eggs, and beat all for a 
half hour. Pour into a glass dish and pour a rich custard 
around it, chill and serve. 

Ginger Apples 

Wash and bruise one and a half ounces of ginger root, put 
it into a small jar, and cover it with a quarter of a pint of 



Desserts 435 

good whiskey; let it stand three days. Add to it the juice 
of two big lemons and two pounds of sugar, pare, core, and 
slice into it three pounds of apples, and simmer all together 
until the apples are transparent but not broken. Remove 
the apples and strain the juice over them. Serve cold with 
cake and garnish with candied lemon peel. 

Marmalade au Creme 

A pretty apple dessert dish is made by turning a small 
amount of apple marmalade into a mold wet with cold 
water. When set and chilled, place on a deep plate, sprinkle 
thickly with powdered pecan nuts, turn a rich, cold custard 
around it, and heap whipped cream on top. 

Blackberry Beaumont 

Pick over and wash carefully one and a half pounds of 
blackberries and put them in a saucepan with a pound and a 
half of cored, peeled, and sliced cooking apples, one and a 
half cups of sugar, and one gill of water. Cool slowly until 
soft, then rub through a sieve. This should make about one 
and a half cups of the pulp. Dissolve one heaping table- 
spoon of gelatine in a gill of hot water, and add to the 
mixture; stir all together, then pour into a wet mold and 
allow it to set. Serve with sweetened whipped cream and 
garnish with a few of the ripe blackberries. 

Banana Souffle 

Slice six ripe bananas into a glass dish, have ready a 
good rich boiled custard not too thick and flavored with 
lemon and txu-n over the bananas, beat stiff three whites of 
egg with a little powdered sugar and flavor it with lemon 
juice, then drop it by spoonfuls over the top, put a cherry 
on each little white mound, chiU, and serve. 

Banana Omelet 

To eight fresh eggs add a gill of cream, two saltspoons of 
white pepper, one of salt, and a dash of sugar. Beat with, a 



436 Desserts 

silver fork for two minutes. Slice and fry to delicate 
brown two bananas in melted butter, tossing them lightly. 
When finished, turn the eggs into the pan over the bananas, 
beat for two minutes, then let them rest half a minute to set. 
Fold the sides of the center, let cook a minute or two, but 
do not burn. Turn onto a hot plate, sprinkle with pow- 
dered sugar, and garnish with strips of angelica and mara- 
schino cherries. 

Cherry Puffs 

Mix well one pint of flour with one and a half teaspoons 
of baking powder and a generous pinch of salt; make into a 
soft batter with milk. Butter well as many little cups 
as are needed and in the bottom of each place a tablespoon 
of pitted cherries that have been dusted with sugar, then a 
tablespoon of the batter, another of the cherries and another 
of the batter. Set the cups in a steamer and steam twenty 
minutes; turn out and serve with a hot vanilla pudding 
sauce. 

Date Souffle 

For a date soufiE16 take one pound of stoned and chopped 
dates, moisten with a little thin sugar syrup to which a 
little sherry and the stiffly beaten whites of five eggs 
have been added; bake in a hot oven. When it puffs up 
a deUcate brown it is done. Serve at once with whipped 
cream. 

Dainty Dates 

Remove the seed from the date, place an almond in its 
place, roll in powdered sugar, lay in a glass dish, and cover 
with whipped cream. 

Figs in Honey 

Soak half a pound of cleanly washed, whole figs until they 
are soft, then stew them in a cup of honey and a cup of 



Desserts 437 

water until they are very tender. They may be served hot, 
with just a little of the juice, or they may be drained, 
cooled, and served with a little cream. 

Dried peaches, apricots, and apples may be soaked, then 
stewed and served with boiled custard or rennet custard, 
or they may be put through a pur^e sieve after stewing and 
made into a fruit purde by adding to them a little hot 
milk or cream. 

Supreme of Fruits 

Cut into small pieces the following fruits: Pears, peaches, 
canteloupe, a few strawberries and red raspberries. Sweeten 
to taste and add a small glass of pineapple juice. Gar- 
nish with strips of angelica and a few frosted mint leaves, 
and serve very cold. 

Orange Souffle 

Peel and slice eight oranges. Place in a deep dish and 
sprinkle sugar between each layer. Make a rich, soft 
custard, and when cool, pour over the oranges. Whip 
the whites of three eggs stiff with three tablespoons of 
powdered sugar and spread over the top of the custard. 
Put in a very hot oven for two minutes to brown, then 
chill thoroughly. 

Orange Chocolate Quarters 

Peel and break into segments six sweet oranges, removing 
the white skin and being careful not to break the skin 
so that the juice runs. Moisten a half cake of sweet choco- 
late and three quarters of a cup of sugar with a half cup of 
water and boil three minutes. Then have ready the beaten 
whites of two eggs. Pour the mixture on the eggs and beat ' 
until thick and cool. Dip the orange quarters into it and 
lay them on wax paper to drain and glaze. Serve with ice 
cream or fancy cake. 



438 Desserts 

Peach Bavaroise 

Cut eight fine large peaches in half, peel, and remove their 
stones. Cook the halves carefully in a pint of vanilla 
sjnrup. When done, drain and place them on a wire sieve 
to cool. Boil a quarter pint of milk and add to it the 
well beaten yolks of two eggs and let it cook just enough 
to bind the eggs; then add four leaves of gelatine which 
have been soaked in cold water, two tablespoons of sugar and 
when all is melted strain into a bowl and set away to chill. 
Whip one half pint of heavy cream and when the custard 
is cold cover it with one half of the whipped cream. Dice 
a slice of preserved pineapple and cut a few candied cherries 
and strew over the top. When chilled arrange the peaches 
on top, leaving a space in the center in which to pile the 
remainder of the whipped cream. 

Baked Pears 

Fill a buttered baking dish with pared and quartered 
ripe pears, arrange with layers of stale cake crumbs rolled 
fine, sprinkle with a half cup of sugar, and add a cup of 
strained honey and a wingelass of brandy. Bake a delicate 
brown, remove from the oven and spread a m6ringue on 
top and return to the oven for a minute or two to brown; 
cool, chUl, and serve with whipped cream. 

Princess Pear 

Cut a large, ripe pear in quarters, remove seeds and core, 
and stuff with brandied cherries. Place on white lettuce 
leaves or surround with whipped cream. Garnish with 
berries. 

Pineapple Whip 

For the pineapple whip take one ripe pineapple, pare, 
slice, and remove from the center of each slice the hard 



Desserts 439 

core. Chop or cut coarsely, and add to it a tablespoon 
of sugar, the juice squeezed from the hard centers, and 
one cup of marshmallow whip. Mix together, and add 
three tablespoons of sherry and half a cup of whipped cream. 
The mixture may be turned over squares of plain cake or 
used with ice cream, or over berries, or alone. It is a 
very dainty summer dessert. 

Prune WMp 

Stew one pound of large prunes until they are tender. 
Drain them and when slightly cool remove the pits, and 
chop the pulp fine. Add a little sugar and enough whipped 
cream to beat the pulp very light with a silver fork. Chill, 
heap in a parfait glass, and garnish with a cherry. 

Baked Quinces 

Select enough quinces to fill a baking dish; pare, core, 
and arrange them in the dish, fill their centers with honey 
and sprinkle them with sugar, then fill the dish with cold 
water and bake them in the oven until they are tender when 
tried with a straw and are a good red color. Remove from 
the pan, drain, and when cold remove to a fancy plate; chill 
and when ready to serve cover with whipped cream; sprinkle 
the top with powdered macaroons and dot with red cherries. 

Raspberries Exquisite 

Wash two baskets of raspberries, sugar them, and turn 
over them a wineglass of Curagoa, and then place in the 
cooler. Pass through the pur^e sieve another basket 
of berries, adding sugar and sweetened whipped cream. 
Drain the juice from the other berries, place in a tall glass 
of cracked ice, pour over the cream mixture, and serve very 
cold. 



440 Desserts 

ATTRACTIVE WAYS TO SERVE MELONS 

Cantaloupe Supreme 

The "cantaloupe supreme" is made by choosing slender 
oval cantaloupes and cutting the melon into points with a 
sharpknifebeforepullingitapart. Take out the seeds. Then 
carefully scoop the melon flesh out with a small potato scoop, 
add a few segments of grapefruit that has been chilled 
like the melon, sprinkle with a little powdered sugar, a 
little grating of nutmeg, and a dash of apricot brandy, 
retxu-n to the shells and serve on individual plates, with 
fruit fork at the side. 

Cantaloupe Baskets 

Cut the melon basket fashion and take out flesh with ball 
cutter. Chill the balls, and just before serving turn a little 
apricot brandy over each. A few sliced peaches sweetened 
and folded in a little whipped cream may be used as a gar- 
nish over the top. 

Cassaba Melon 

Chill the melon and then cut it in half. Scoop out the 
flesh in balls with a melon scoop and heap them back in the 
shell, dusting them with powdered sugar and two table- 
spoons of sherry mixed with a teaspoon of ginger syrup. 
Serve very cold. 

Watermelon 

The watermelon after being thoroughly chilled may be 
cut apart with points, then cut down but not separated 
like a lotus blossom if it is to be served plain at table. Or 
it may be cut basket fashion with a high handle. The 
fruit is all taken out by spoonfuls, the seeds removed, and 
the basket is then filled half full of shaven ice with the 
melon on top and the melon put on the table, with a big 



Desserts 44^ 

pink bow tied to the handle. This is very decorative for a 
centerpiece at a melon feast. 

Watermelon Squares 

Cut the melon into thick squares, free from seeds, and 
hollow them out with a teaspoon. Fill each with ice- 
cream. Take fresh macaroons, smear their flat surfaces 
with a little maple syrup, and stick them around the square 
sides of the melon, two on each side, or one on a side if they 
are large. 

Watennelon Sandwiches 

These are made by cutting the ripe, well chilled melon 
lengthways in one-inch slices. Remove the seeds and cut 
into fotir-inch squares. Split these if necessary and spread 
thickly between the slices with vanilla French ice cream and 
on top of each spread pistachio cream. Serve as quickly as 
they are prepared with an ice cream fork and sweet wafers. 

Watermelon Jelly 

Take enough of watermelon pulp to rub through a 
sieve and make about three cupfuls. Add enough cold 
water to it to make one quart altogether. Put it into a 
saucepan, add three tablespoons of gelatine mixed in a little 
cold water, three ounces of sugar, the rind of one lemon, 
three cloves and one bay leaf, and the whites and shells of 
two eggs. Beat over the fire until it comes to a boiling 
point. Keep it there for three minutes, then strain, cool, 
and turn into a wet mold. When set turn onto a platter, 
heap with whipped cream which has had a little sugar and a 
few chopped nuts mixed with it. Cantaloupe jelly may be 
made in the same way, only it may be turned into its own 
hollowed shells to harden. 

If the water melon is to be served plain for dessert it is 
very good to plug it and turn into it two bottles of imported 



t42 Desserts 

finger ale, chill it, and when ready to serve cut in strips 
piled log-cabin fashion on the plates to be eaten with the 
ingers instead of a fork. 

PIES 

In making pie crust that known as puff paste will be 
lound the most difficult to make, for it requires practice 
md skiU to bring it to that point of flaky tenderness and 
lightness for which it is famed. If properly made the puff 
paste will rise in the oven and bake in light flaky layers 
without greasiness. 

The beginner must learn to handle it lightly and as little 
as possible in rolling and turning, and it should also be 
placed in the ice-box for several hours after it is made before 
baking. 

Pastry flour is best for pie crusts and there are several 
good brands to be had. "This flour is lighter in texture 
than the bread flours. 

Puff Paste 

Take three cups of flour that has been sifted seven times 
and add to it a saltspoon of salt, one cup of butter, and the 
yolk of one egg. The paste must be made in a cool place. 
Place the butter and egg yolk in the center of the flour and 
begin to work in the center drawing in the floiu: from the 
outer ring. As it begins to take up the floiu: add slowly a 
little ice water, using in all about one cup. Work until the 
paste is smooth and fine, then place it in the ice-box for 
fifteen minutes. Put it back on the board and roll it the 
size of a dinner plate. Place on it one cup of butter and 
wrap over it the edges of dough, carefully covering it. 
Turn the dough over and roll very thin; then fold it square 
in three, roU out, and repeat twice more. Then place the 
dough in a tin over cracked ice and place another tin of 
cracked ice over it, allowing it to stand thus for five 
minutes between each rolling and folding. Then remove 



Desserts 443 

the paste to a cold dish and let it stand in the ice-box for 
several hours before making the pies. 

Plain Pie Crust 

Take three cups of sifted flour, sifted three times, and 
add to it a saltspoon of salt, a half teaspoon of good bak- 
ing powder, a half cup of butter, and a quarter cup of fresh 
lard; work the mixture to a paste, using a cup of iced water, 
or a cup of sweet cream. Roll the paste thin and it is ready 
for use. 

Hot Water Pie Crust 

I This is a method introduced by the Domestic Science 
Department of a western college. The recipe calls for three 
cupfuls of sifted flour, one half teaspoon of salt, and one half 
teaspoon of baking powder sifted together. Put into the 
mixing bowl first a half cup of butter and one quarter cup of 
lard. Add to the shortening one half cup of boiling water 
and beat with a fork until aU is creamy. Sift in the flour 
mixture slowly, beating it the while, and when all is mixed 
roll out the crust. This recipe makes crust enough for two 
pies. When half the crust is needed, wrap the remaining 
dough in wax paper and put it where it is very cold until 
dough for another pie is required. This is the quickest 
known method of pie making. 

There are many new substitutes for butter and lard, some 
of which can be highly recommended, but nothing has yet 
been found to excel pure sweet butter and pure lard. 
Therefore all the recipes herein given are made with the 
pure and well known ingredients. 

If the housekeeper wishes to try the new shortenings, 
she will find adequate directions supplied by the firms who 
put the products forward. 

A good way to use up leftover crust is to roll it out thin 
and shape it over well buttered layer tins turned upside 



444 Desserts 

down. This makes shells which, when filled with fresh 
fruit heaped with whipped cream, are good for a change. 

PufE Paste Rings 

Roll the ptiflf paste to a quarter of an inch thickness 
and with a round fluted cutter make as many rings as are 
required. Roll the dough again and cut out the bottoms, 
brush with egg, and bake a delicate brown, when they are 
ready to serve sweets or vegetables in. 

Pastry Flowers 

Roll the paste out to a quarter of an inch thickness and 
cut the rings and bottoms as before; blanch and cut three 
ounces of almonds in half, stick them around the edge, 
brush with egg and dust with powdered sugar and bake; 
when done fill with red jam and lay with a strip of angelica 
between each almond, and they look quite like flowers. 
They are pretty to serve with afternoon tea. 

The hollow glass rolling pin to be filled with shaved 
ice for use in pastry making, while not new, is a very clever 
invention. 

The double (rolling pin has two handles, one at either end. 
It does double the work of the single pin and is easy to 
operate. 

Plain Apple Pie 

Pare and slice thin tart apples enough, careftilly and 
thoroughly removing the cores, to fill the pie plate quite 
full. Add one cup of sugar, a saltspoon of grated nutmeg, 
and three quarters of a cup of iced water, or less if the pie 
plate is shallow. Dot a teaspoon of butter in little lumps 
Dver the top, put on the top crust, and bake in a medium 
Dven untn the crust is a delicate brown on top, about thirty 
minutes. 

This pie may be served plain with a square of American 



Desserts 445 

cheese, or with whipped cream, plain cream, or vanilla ice 
cream on top. 

A saltspoon of cinnamon may also be added to the flavor- 
ing of the pie if it is Uked. 

Apple Sauce Pie 

Make a good, rich, stifiE apple sauce; strain and beat it 
quite light, adding to it one stiffly beaten egg white and a 
teaspoon of melted butter. Fill the crust Uned pie plate 
with it and bake until the top crust is a delicate brown. 

Old-Fashioned Apple Pie 

Linethebutteredpie plate with good pie crust, then fill the 
pie with carefully pared, cored, and sliced Spitzenburg apples. 
Dust over them a half cup of sugar and dot with little lumps 
of butter. Put in a cup a tablespoon of flour, a half teaspoon 
of ground ginger, and three quarters of a cup of molasses. 
Stir until all is smooth, then turn into the pie, put on the top 
crust, and bake in a medium oven. If the pie is inclined to 
run over, increase the heat and cook it quickly. Serve 
with the pie squares of good rich dairy cheese.. 

Apricot Pie 

Line a pie plate with a good puff paste; pare, stone, and 
halve enough apricots to fill the dish. Sprinkle with sugar, 
then add three quarters of a cup of syrup taken from a jar of 
Canton ginger, with a piece of the ginger finely chopped 
through it. Mix a tablespoon of flour with the syrup ; then 
pour all over the fruit. Put on the top crust and bake in a 
medium oven. Use a deep pie plate so the syrup will not 
run out in the oven. 

Banana Custard Pie 

Line a deep pie plate with good pie crust and dent the 
edge with the tines of a silver fork. Mash very fine two 



H6 Desserts 

arge ripe bananas, add to them one cup of sugar, one salt- 
jpoon of salt, the juice of a large juicy lemon, and two 
aeaten eggs. Beat aU until very light, then turn into the 
;rust and bake. A meringue may be added if desired, made 
Df the whites of two eggs, two tablespoons of powdered sugar, 
md a teaspoon of lemon juice. 

Banana Mincemeat 

Chop fine one pound of boiled beef, add one cup of butter, 
)ne cup of molasses, one cup orange marmalade, one cup of 
rose jelly, one cup stoned raisins, the grated rind and juice 
)f one lemon, a teaspoon of salt, a cup and a half of brown 
sugar, a teaspoon each of cinnamon, cloves, and nutmeg, and 
)ne cup of vinegar. When ready to make the pies, use one 
:up of the mincemeat to one cup of finely chopped ripe 
janana. 

Butterscotch Pie 

Make this in a double cooker, so that it will not Itunp. 
ingredients: One cup of white sugar and one cup of brown 
;ugar, three tablespoons of butter; add the yolks of three 
!ggs, four tablespoons of flour, one and one half cups of 
iweet milk, one and one half cups of water, one teaspoon 
)f vanilla. Put this in a cooked pie crust; then take the 
vhites that are left and make a meringue; brown lightly. 

Blackberry Jelly Pie 

Squeeze three boxes of ripe blackberries, after slightly 
panning them, and to each pint of juice add a pint of sugar; 
)oil about twenty minutes, and when cool fill the pie three 
quarters full. The rest of the jelly may be put into glasses 
or future use. When the crust is done, remove the pie and 
et it cool; then spread the top with a good meringue, brown 
n the oven, and let it stand and get cold. 



Desserts 447 

Blueberry Pie 

Wash and carefully pick over one quart of large blue- 
berries. Put them into the crust lined pie plate with a cup 
and a half of sugar and three quarters of a cup of cold water. 
Put on the top crust and bake. Huckleberry pie is made in 
the same way. Mulberry pie is made in the same way only 
that a quarter of the amount of sugar is used, and the juice 
of a lemonis added to the water, which in this case is a quar- 
ter of a cup. Raspberry and blackcap pie is made the same 
as the blueberry, only using half the quantity of water. 

Cherry Cream Pie 

Line the pie plate with rich flaky crust. Open a quart 
jar of preserved cherries, strain them and heat the juice, 
adding to it a cup of cream; thicken slightly with cornstarch 
and when slightly cool fill in the cherries and turn over 
the cream; put on the top crust and bake. This is a very 
rich pie, and a good one if it is carefully made. 

Deep Dish Cherry Pie 

This is an old-fashioned recipe. Line a deep pie dish with 
good crust and fill with stoned cherries and a cup and a half 
of sugar. Make a lattice crust over the top and bake well. 
Serve hot. 

Cocoanut Pie 

Line a deep pie plate with good pie crust; over half of a 
grated cocoanut pour one pint of milk heated to boiling point, 
add two tablespoons of butter, a half cup of sugar, four well 
beaten eggs, and after pouring into the pie crust add a little 
dusting of nutmeg over the top. Bake the same length of 
time and test the same as is done with a custard pie. 

Custard Pie 

Beat into one quart of rich milk that has been warmed 
five eggs beaten with three tablespoons of sugar, flavor 



148 Desserts 

vith a teaspoon of vanilla flavoring and a small grating of 
lutmeg. Turn into the pie crust and bake until the cus- 
;ard is set. This may be determined by sticking a silver 
mife into the custard. If it is done just right the knife 
vill come out clean. Cooking usually takes about twenty 
;o thirty minutes, according to the heat of the oven. 

Frosted Custard Pie 

Line the pie dish with good puff paste. Take one quart 
)f rich milk and beat into it four eggs, a pinch of salt, a 
lalf cup of sugar, a teaspoon of vanilla flavoring, and a 
prating of nutmeg. Turn all into the crust and bake. 
iVTien done and cold, frost the pie in the following way: 
i'ut a quarter of a cup of ice water in a bowl, add a saltspoon 
)f cream of tartar, and stir in sufficient triple sugar to 
nake an icing that will pour. Turn it evenly over the pie 
md set away to harden. 

Damson Plum Pie 

Take one quart of Damson plums, wash, prick with a 
leedle, and stew in a pint of water with a pint of sugar. 
AThen stewed tender, cool, fill the crust lined pie plate 
rith them, and bake until the crust is done. If the stones 
ire removed twice the quantity of fruit must be used. 

Dried Fruit Pies. 

When fresh fruits are not available, dried fruits will be 
ound very good to use in pie making. Only the best 
[uality of dried fruit should be used. In making the pies, 
tse deep pie plates and good homemade crust, but not 
lecessarily puff paste. 

Dried Apple Pie 

Soak a half pound of dried apples overnight. In the . 
norning, stew them until tender with four slices of lemon, 



Desserts 449 

two cloves, and a stick of cinnamon. "When tender, add a 
cup and a half of sugar and let all stew down rather rich 
and thick. When cool, remove lemon and cinnamon, drain 
off a half cup of the syrup and add to it a teaspoon of ground 
ginger, a teaspoon of flour, and two teaspoons of molasses. 
Drain the apples and add them to the pie, then add the gin- 
ger mixture and as much of the syrup as the pie will hold; 
add the top crust and bake. Serve the pie hot, with a 
square of good dairy cheese on the side. 

Dried Cherry Pie 

Take one pound of dried cherries and soak them over- 
night. In the morning, stew them until they are tender, 
then add a cup and a half of sugar and cook down until 
the syrup is rich and heavy. When cool fill the pie with the 
cherries and as much juice as it will take, and put on the 
top crust. This pie is good hot or cold, served with cream. 

Pear Pie 

Take one pound of dried pears and soak them until they 
puff up; then put them on to stew with as little water as 
possible, watching them carefully lest they burn. When 
they are tender, add a cup of preserved Canton ginger 
and syrup, after chopping the ginger pieces small. Add a 
teaspoon of lemon juice, a little of the grated peel, and a 
half cup of sugar. When aU is thoroughly mixed, let cool 
slightly and then fill the pie crust. Serve hot. 

Prune Pie 

Soak a pound of large prunes for a couple of hours, then 
stew them carefully. When the prunes are done, remove 
them from the liquid, and, to a cup or a little more of the 
juice, add a cup of sugar and a teaspoon of lemon juice; 
then boil to. a thick syrup. While it boils, put in a stick of 
cinnamon. Remove the seeds from the prunes and chop 



4^50 Desserts 

them fine. After they are chopped, fill the pie crust, which 
bas been baked like a tart shell, with the fruit and add 
enough syrup to make it the right consistency ; then heap 
the top with whipped cream and it is ready to serve. 

Raisin Pie 

Take a cup and a half of large seeded raisins and let them 
stand in a cup of vanilla syrup for one hour. Add to the 
raisins a half cup of finely chopped pecan nuts, the crumbs 
Df a dozen stale macaroons, juice of half a lemon, a quarter 
imp of melted butter, and one heaping teaspoon of flour 
mixed smooth in a little of the S3a'up. Pour mixture into 
:rust, put on top crust, and bake until the crust is done. 

Green Tomato Pie 

To make the filling for this pie one must wash and chop 
!our quarts of green tomatoes fine. Allow three pounds of 
arown sugar, the jtiice of two lemons, and the grated rind 
jf one; a tablespoon of cinnamon, one of allspice, one of 
jalt, a half teaspoon of cloves, and one grated nutmeg. 
Put all into a porcelain lined kettle and simmer gently one 
lour, or until reduced one half in bulk. Then add two 
pounds of seeded raisins, a cup of seeded and chonped 
prunes, and a cup of boiled cider. Cook down an hour and 
1 half longer, until the mixture is thick; allow it to cool, 
;hen use as needed for pie filling. 

Jewish Shallit 

Line a deep pie plate with good crust. Put in a layer of 
:hopped apple, a httle grated lemon peel, bits of butter, 
md two tablespoons of thin vanilla syrup. Cover with an- 
)ther layer of pastry; put on top of this another layer 
)f chopped apple with a half cup of seeded raisins, half a cup 
)f chopped nut meats, the JToice of half a lemon; dot with 



Desserts 45^ 

butter, and add three tablespoons vanilla syrup. Put on 
the top crust and seal it with the white of an egg. Butter 
the top and bake. 

Princess Lemon Pie 

Line a deep, weU buttered pie plate with good puff paste, 
pressing the edge with the tines of a silver fork. For the 
filling use one cup of sugar, one cup of milk, four eggs, 
one tablespoon of flour, and one large lemon — juice aiid 
grated rind. Beat the yolks of the eggs and a cup of sugar 
together and add the lemon juice, beating it all thoroughly. 

Mix the flour and the milk together as smoothly as 
possible and strain into the other mixture, then pour into 
the pie plate, baking it for thirty minutes. Beat the yolks 
of the eggs very stiff with two tablespoons of powdered 
sugar. When the pie is done spread the meringue over 
the top, place it in the oven, and brown it quickly. The pie 
may be served hot or cold, as desired, and either way it will 
be found particularly rich and of fine flavor. 

Mince Pie 

To one pint of good shaker mincemeat add two cups of 
finely chopped apples, a cup of large seeded' raisins, a cup of 
strained honey, a wineglass of brandy, and two tablespoons 
of apricot cordial ; mix all thoroughly. This amount of meat 
should fill two deep-dish pies. 

There are several other brands of mincemeat, so one 
does not have to make it at home unless they wish to do so. 

Mock Cherry Pie 

Chop two cups of cranberries and one cup of seeded 
raisins, add two cupfuls of sugar and one of boiling water, 
one teaspoon of vaniUa and two teaspoons of flour. Use a 
good pie crust and bake as usual. 



1-52 Desserts 

Orange Pie 

Cream together three quarters of a cup of sugar and a 
scant tablespoon of butter. Beat together the yolks of 
bhree eggs with the white of one and add to the butter and 
sugar. Mix together the juice of one orange, half a lemon, 
a, Uttle of the grated peel, and a dash of nutmeg. Have 
ready a pie plate lined with good puff paste and turn in the 
mixture and bake. When done beat the whites of the eggs 
stiff with two tablespoons of powdered sugar, spread lightly 
3ver the pie, and brown a minute or two in the oven. 

Fresh Pineapple Pie 

Grate or chop one large sweet pineapple, add to it one cup 
jf sugar, a quarter cup of butter, one cup of cream, and 
ive beaten eggs. Pour the mixture into a good under 
a-ust, and when baked put a meringue on top. 

Rhubarb Pie 

Pare and dice two and a half cups of fresh rhubarb. 
Put in a saucepan and cover with cold water; let it come 
juickly to a boil, then stand at boiling point, for ten 
ninutes. Drain. When cool fill the pie, adding one cup 
jf sugar. This method removes all of the unpleasant and 
poisonous acid from the rhubarb. 

Fresh Peach Pie 

Line a deep pie plate with good rich crust and fill the pie 
vith ripe cut peaches. Take a cup and a half of sugar 
md a half cup of water and put it into a saucepan with a 
spice bag and half a thinly sliced lemon; let the mixture 
nelt, then slowly come to boiUng point and boil five 
ninutes; remove from the fire and let stand and cool. 
iVhen cold remove the lemon and the spice bag and turn 
)ver the peaches, put on the top crust and bake. Serve hot 
vith plain cream or cold with whipped cream. 



Desserts 453 

Pumpkin Pie 

Cut in pieces one large pumpkin, pare, remove the seeds, 
and put to boil. When tender enough to mash, drain. 
Mash and add to the pulp a teaspoon of salt, a cup of molas- 
ses, a cup of sugar, a level tablespoon of ground ginger, a 
teaspoon of vanilla, and when cool, the beaten whites of 
three eggs and a cup of cream. This should be sufficient 
fiUing for two pies, or three if the pumpkin is a large one. 

Washington Pie 

Version No. i — Cream two eggs with three tablespoons 
of butter and one cup of powdered sugar; when smooth, add 
alternately a half cup of milk and two small cups of flour. 
Beat thoroughly, then add one heaping teaspoon of baking 
powder. Bake in jelly tins and lay up with soft frosting in 
which a little orange marmalade has been beaten. 

Version No. 2 — Set a pint of milk to boil. Break two 
eggs into a dish, and add one cup of sugar and a half cup of 
flour. After beating vigorously, stir it into the hot milk as 
it comes to a boil. Add one ounce of butter and two tea- 
spoons of vanilla ; stir the mixture until it thickens. For the 
crust, use three eggs, one cup of sugar, one and a half 
cups of flour, a teaspoon of baking powder, and two table- 
spoons of milk. Mix thoroughly, then divide the batter 
into two equal parts and cook them in layer tins in a quick 
oven. When they are done and cool, split each with a sharp 
knife and lay them up with the cream, dusting the top with 
powdered sugar. 

Version No. 3 — Line a pie plate with good pie crust. 
Beat two egg yolks with a half cup of sugar and fotu grated 
apples; add a teaspoon of melted butter, a dash of salt, 
and a grating of nutmeg. Bake in the crust and when done 
put a meringue on the top and set it back in the oven just 
long enough to brown the meringue. 



454 Desserts 

Version No. 4 — Take three quarters of a pound of butter 
and cream it with one and a half pounds of brown sugar; 
add six eggs, the yolks beaten with one pint of sweet milk. 
Sift in one and three quarter pounds of flour, two teaspoons 
of baking powder, and lastly fold in the stiffly beaten whites 
of the eggs. Have ready a half pound of currants washed 
and dried, a half pound of stoned raisins, a quarter pound of 
finely sliced citron, a grated nutmeg, and two teaspoons of 
vaniUa flavoring; sprinkle the fruit with a little flour before 
adding it to the cake. Mix well and bake in a shallow square 
pan for an hour and three quarters. Cover the cake with a 
deep soft sugaring and ornament it with a border of little 
pink and white candies. 

Version No. 5 — Line a deep pie plate with good crust. 
Add to one and a half pints of milk three tablespoons of 
corn starch, one cup of sugar, two tablespoons of butter, a 
teaspoon of vanilla flavoring, and the rind of a lemon. Be- 
fore adding the cornstarch, dissolve it in a httle cold milk. 
When the milk has thickened slightly with the cornstarch, 
draw it aside and add the beaten egg yolks, butter, and 
flavoring. Pour the mixture at once into the pie crust, 
removing the lemon rind. Bake for twenty minutes, or 
until the crust is done. Remove from the oven, add a 
mdringue, return to the oven and brown it; serve hot or cold. 



CAKES 

The making of good cake is a knack to be acquired only 
after much practice. In studying the rudiments of cake- 
making, the beginner should never attempt anything un- 
usual until after she has learned to make perfect plain, 
pound, sponge, and raisin cakes. 

Only the freshest eggs, best quality butter, rich sweet 
milk, the best pastry flours, pure baking powder, and 
filtered water should be used for cake making if best results 
are to be had. 

Cake is best baked in a rising oven, where the heat 
gradually increases. The most important thing to be seen 
to, if baking by a coal oven, is the condition of the fire so 
that it will keep the oven at the right temperature. Gas 
and electric stoves can, of course, be more readily regulated, 
though in both the latter ovens a pan of water is generally 
put in during the cooking of cakes to keep the air moist. 
Cooks of wide experience agree that, after testing all modes 
of cooking, the gauze-door coal range is the ideal cake 
baker. 

Potind Cake 

Three quarters of a pound of butter and one pound of 
powdered sugar mixed together thoroughly; to this add the 
beaten yolks of ten eggs, and sift in one pound of flour, one 
half teaspoon of baking powder, and a pinch of salt; last of all 
fold in the whites of eight eggs. Bake in a medium oven for 
about one hour. The cake is baked in a shallow pan double 
as long as its width and lightly smeared with butter. The 
frosting is made of the remaining egg whites very stiffly 

455 



45^ Cakes 

beaten, allowing fifteen teaspoons of powdered sugar 
and the juice of half a lemon. Beat the egg until very stiff, 
then add the sugar, beating in a teaspoon at a time, last 
the lemon juice,, and then spread smoothly over the warm 
cake with a broad-bladed knife which is dipped occasionally 
in cold water. A soft-boiled frosting may be used if it is 
better liked. 

Sponge Cake 

Break one dozen eggs, without separating, into a large 
mixing bowl, add to them two cups of powdered sugar, set 
the bowl in a pan of boiling water, and keep near the front 
of the range so that the temperature may be kept at boiling 
point; beat with an egg beater for half an hour without 
stopping, remove from therange, and stir in one cup of sifted 
flour and the grated rind and juice of one lemon; pour in well 
buttered chimney pan, bake in a medium oven half an hour 
or less, testing with a broom splint. When done invert the 
pan and let cool before removing the cake. This also may 
be frosted. 

Solid Chocolate Cake 

One cup of sugar and half a cup of butter creamed 
together; add two eggs, a half a cup of milk, two teaspoons 
of baking powder, and flour enough to make a stiff batter. 
While beating this batter smooth put over the fire in a 
clean saucepan one cup of sugar, the yolks of two eggs, a 
half cup of Baker's chocolate, grated, and a half cup of 
milk. After it has boiled smooth for five minutes set it 
aside and sUghtly cool; then stir it into the thick batter, 
beat and turn into a shallow buttered pan, and bake in a 
medium oven; or part of the dough may be put into the 
fancy shaped pans and that in the large pan cut into 
small squares, then iced or split, spread with marmalade, 
then cut into small jelly sandwiches and iced. 



CaKes 457 

Spanish Cake 

Beat one pound of butter and one pound of sugar to a 
cream, add slowly the stiffly beaten yolks of eight eggs. 
Sift in one pound of flour, two teaspoons of baking powder, 
and a pinch of salt. Stir in one cup of milk, and when all is 
beaten smooth, fold in the eight egg whites bea,ten stififly. 
Flavor with rose flavoring and bake in carefully greased 
chimney pans. 

Fruit Cake 

Nine eggs, three quarters of a pound of butter, one pound 
of sugar, one half cup of molasses, one pound of flour and 
one dessertspoon of vanilla. Beat the whites and yolks 
of the eggs separately. * Grate in one nutmeg, add a teaspoon 
of ground cloves, a pinch of mace, one teaspoon of baking 
powder, one cup of milk, one pound of stoned raisins, one 
pound of well washed currants, and a half pound of sliced 
citron. The mixture must be thoroughly stirred, and if it 
seems a little too thin, then add a small quantity of flour. 
Bake in well buttered tins for three hours, try with a broom 
splint, and invert the pans to cool the cake. 

Marble Cake 

For the Ught part of the cake use three cups of sugar, two 
thirds of a cup of butter, one cup of sour cream, four cups of 
flour, a teaspoon of baking powder, and the stiffly beaten 
whites of four eggs. For the dark part use two level cups 
of brown sugar, one cup of molasses, two thirds of a cup of 
butter, one cup of milk, four cups of flour, one teaspoon 
baking powder, and the yolks of six eggs; add one half 
tablespoon each of ground cloves, ginger, cinnamon, all- 
spice, and one grated nutmeg. Next add a few drops of 
lemon and bitter almond flavoring. Lightly butter a large 
shallow baking tin, pouring in the cake in alternate layers, 
dark and light, and bake them one hour, testing with broom 
splint. Use the remaining egg whites for frosting. 



458 CaKes 

Silver Cake 

Mix one cup of butter and two cups of sugar to a cream, 
then add the whites of four eggs well beaten and stir for 
twenty minutes, then add a cup of milk, two cups of sifted 
flour, and lastly one cup of flour mixed with one and a half 
teaspoonsof baking powder. Flavor with vanilla and bake. 

Angel Cake 

Whip the whites of twelve eggs to a firm stiff froth, sift in 
gradually one and a half cups of granulated sugar, then one 
cup of flour which has been sifted four times, and one level 
teaspoon of baking powder. Add also two teaspoons of 
vanilla flavoring and, after quickly mixing, turn the dough 
into an ungreased chimney pan and bake forty minutes in a 
steady, moderate oven. When baked, invert the pan over 
a plate, resting its edges on two small cups. As the cake 
cools, it will become detached from the pan. 

Honey Cake 

Mix half a cupful of sugar with a cupful of rich sour 
cream, sift into it two cups of flour, stir well, add half a tea- 
spoon of bicarbonate of soda and enough honey to flavor it 
well; beat all together, pour in buttered tin, and bake from 
half to three quarters of an hour and serve warm. 

Almond Cake 

Blanch and pound one half a pound of sweet almonds to a 
paste; sef)arate the whites from the yolks of six eggs, beat 
the yolks with the almonds, stir in eight tablespoons of sugar, 
grated rind of one lemon, three ounces of butter that has 
been beaten toa cream, mix well, and add the beaten whites 
of the eggs; put in a well buttered chimney pan and bake 
from one and a half to one and three quarters of an hour ; 
invert the pan on a cake plate and when it cools the cake will 
come out on the plate. 



CaKes 459 

Tea Cake 

Mix a quarter of a pound of flour with a quarter of a 
pound of arrowroot, add a small cupful of sugar, a quarter 
pound of butter, one ounce of candied orange peel cut fine, 
and two well beaten eggs; heat the mixture for ten minutes 
then bake in a buttered paper lined cake tin for one hour 
to one hour and a quarter. When cold it may be put away 
in a cake closet, and it is one of the best keeping cakes 
known. 

Queen Cakes 

Work a half pound of butter to a cream, sift in a pound 
of flour, one cupful of sugar, half a pound of currants, and 
mix well, whisk three eggs and add them to a teacup of 
cream, and the vanilla flavoring; add one teaspoon of bicar- 
bonate of soda, beat well, and put in small buttered pans 
and bake twenty minutes to a half hour. 

Washington Cake 

Rub together two cups of butter and three cups of sugar 
until light and creamy; add five well beaten eggs gradually, 
then one cup of milk and four cups of carefully sifted flour 
with two teaspoons of baking powder. Next add one cup 
of stoned raisins, a half cup of well-washed currants, a quar- 
ter of a cup of chopped citron, and one teaspoon each of 
extract of nutmeg and cinnamon. Beat into a smooth 
medium batter, then turn into a shallow square pan. Bake 
one hour and a half in a quick, steady oven. When cold, 
cover with a rich soft vanilla frosting. 

Blueberry Cake 

Beattwocupsof sugarandhalf a cup of butter to a cream, 
add the well beaten yolks of four eggs, half a teaspoon, of 
salt, half a cup of milk, one teaspoon grated nutmeg, 
half a teaspoon of cinnamon, and two cups of flour, sifted, 



460 CaKes 

with two teaspoons of baking powder. Beat the mixture 
well, then add the beaten whites of the eggs. Have ready, 
washed and careftdly picked over, one quart of blueberries; 
dust them lightly with flour, and fold them into the cake. 
Grease the cake pans (shallow ones are best), and pour in 
the cake about an inch thick; dust the top with sugar and 
bake slowly half an hour or more, if needed. 

Dutch Breadfruit Cake 

Beat the yolks of twelve eggs with one half pound of 
sugar, beating for half an hour; add a half pound of sweet 
almonds that have been blanched and mashed fine, a half 
pound of black bread that has been grated and moistened 
in a little thin vanilla syrup; add also a teaspoon of cinna- 
mon, a half teaspoon of grated nutmeg, a quarter pound of 
finely chopped citron, and the beaten egg whites. Mix 
aU very smooth and bake the dough in a slow oven. 

Jelly Sponge 

Bake a sponge cake in a deep square pan. When cold 
cut off the end and hollow out the inside like a box. The 
pieces that are cut out may be used at luncheon with sliced 
fruit. Make a good lemon or wine jelly, and when it 
begins to cool add a bottle each (small size) of green and 
red maraschino cherries, turn into the cake, and place 
in a cool ice chamber to set. Have ready a pint of whipped 
cream, to which add a Httle sugar, a few drops of vanilla, 
and a teaspoon of finely chopped nuts. Heap this on 
top of the jelly. Garnish with a few strips of angelica 
and serve. 

One-Two-Three-Fotu: Cake 

One cup of butter, two of sugar creamed together, add 
the yolks of four eggs and one cup of milk, and sift in 
three cups of flour, a half saltspoon of salt, and two level 
teaspoons of baking powder. Beat the cake thoroughly, 



Cahes 461 

add two teaspoons of vanilla, pour in well greased pans and 
bake. If desired a cup of seeded raisins, a half cup of 
chopped citron, and a half cup of well washed currants may- 
be lightly floured and added to the batter. Bake for thirty- 
five minutes. 

Ohio Fruit Cake 

One pound of seeded raisins, one pound of washed cur- 
rants, one quarter of a pound of thinly sliced citron, one 
pound of brown sugar, one cup of butter, four well beaten 
eggs, one cup of sour milk, four cups of flour that has been 
sifted three times, one grated nutmeg, one tablespoon of 
cinnamon, and a dessertspoon of cloves; beat these ingredi- 
ents thoroughly into a smooth dough and lastly add one des- 
sertspoon of baking, soda. Do not mix the soda with milk 
but sift it in dry. Turn the dough into a well buttered 
chimney pan and bake in a brisk oven until done, testing 
the cake with a straw. 

Old-Fashioned Plum Cake 

Take six pounds of currants, five pounds of flour, an 
ounce of cloves and mace, a little cinnamon, half an ounce 
of nutmegs, half a pound of pounded and blanched almonds, 
a half a pound of sugar, three quarters of a pound of sliced 
citron, lemon and orange peel, half a pint of sack, a little 
honey-water, a quart of ale-yeast, a quart of cream, a 
pound and a half of butter melted and poured into the middle 
thereof; thenstrew a little flour thereon, and let it lie to rise; 
then work it well together and lay it before the fire to rise; 
workitupuntilit is very smooth; put it in a hoop, with a 
paper floured at the bottom. 

LAYER CAKES 

Cuban Orange Layer Cake 

Rub together one cup of sugar, four tablespoons of 
butter, add a teaspoon of salt, one beaten egg, one cup of 



462 CaKes 

water and sift two level teaspoons of baking powder with 
two cups of flour into the mixture. Beat until smooth 
and bake in layer pans. For the filling boil one half cup of 
sugar in the juice of an orange. Dissolve one heaping tea- 
spoon of corn starch in two tablespoons of cold water, 
add the beaten yolk of one egg, add this to the boiling syrup 
stirring constantly until thick. Remove from the fire and 
spread between the layers of cake. Frost with a good soft 
frosting if desired. 

Imported Viennese " Chocolate Schnutten " 

Cream together one half pound of butter and one half 
pound of sugar. Add the yolks of sixteen eggs, two and one 
half ounces of grated almonds, two and .one half ounces of 
browned bread crumbs, two and one half ounces of sifted 
flour, the soft center of half a vanilla bean one fourth cake of 
sweet chocolate, grated; and lastly, the whites of the 
sixteen eggs, stiffly beaten. Bake in shallow, lightly but- 
tered pans, in a moderate oven, for from twenty to twenty- 
five minutes, and when done, invert over plates to cool. 
When cold, cut into two-and-one-half-inch squares. Split 
the squares with a sharp knife into two layers, spread 
the under layer with the filling and the upper layer with the 
glazing. 

For the filling use one half pound of butter and one half 
cake of grated sweet chocolate, melted and beaten together 
till smooth and creamy. 

For the glazing, to one fourth cake of sweet chocolate, 
grated, add one half cup of sugar and one-fourth cup of 
water. Let this boil up well, then beat until cool and 
creamy and spread lightly over the cake. 

The quantity given in this recipe wiU make three ordi- 
nary eight-inch-square cakes. 

Lady Baltimore Cake 

Take one cup of butter and cream it with two cups of 
sugar, add three and a half cups of flour sifted with two level 



CaKes 463 

teaspoons of baking powder, add also one cup of sweet 
milk, a teaspoon of rose water, and lastly fold in the stiffly- 
beaten whites of six eggs. Bake in three layer cake tins. 
While baking prepare the following filling: 

Dissolve three cups of sugar in one cup of water, cooking 
until it spins a thread, then pour it over the stiffly beaten 
whites of three eggs, stirring constantly. Add to the filling 
one cup of chopped pecan nuts and six or eight figs cut in 
fine strips. 

Lay up the cake, when done, with the filling, then ice it on 
top and sides with white frosting. 

Cocoanut Cake 

Make the layers for the cake after the one-two-three- 
four cake recipe. One cup of butter, two of sugar, three of 
flour, and four eggs. Of course the egg whites are beaten 
separately and folded in after the other ingredients are well 
beaten, and enough sweet'milk added to make the dough the 
right consistency; a heaping teaspoon of baking powder 
is sifted in with the flour, and last of all two teaspoons of 
vanilla are added before turning the batter into the well 
buttered pans. The filling is made of fresh cocoanut. 
Grate the meat of one fresh sweet cocoanut. Melt one cup of 
sugar with a half cup of water and let it boil for four min- 
utes; havereadythebeatenwhitesof twoeggs, beat the syrup 
into the eggs very lightly, then add a cup and a half of the 
cocoanut, beat well, and lay up the cake, covering the top 
with the filling, then sprinkling all with some 01 the fresh 
cocoanut. 

Plain Layer Cake 

Put one cup of sugar, a half cup of butter, and the yolks 
of three eggs into the mixing bowl and beat thoroughly, 
adding two teaspoons of vanilla flavoring. Sift two and a 
half cups of flour with two and a half teaspoons of baking 
powder, and alternately sift into the mixture with a cup of 
water. Mix thoroughly and beat for five minutes ; then fold 



4^4 CaKes 

in the whites of the eggs that have been beaten very stiff. 
Bake in three layers, in a moderate oven, for half an hour 
or a little less. Any filling desired may be used to lay the 
cake up with. 

Plain Layer Cake Made with Oil 

Put one cup of sugar, theyolksof three eggs, and a half cup 
of any good vegetable oil into a mixing bowl and beat 
thoroughly; add one teaspoon of vanilla flavoring, sift in 
two and a half cups of flour with two and a half teaspoons of 
baking powder, adding it to the cake alternately with one 
cup of water. Beat all together for five minutes, then fold 
in the whites of the three eggs well beaten. Bake in three 
layers for twenty minutes. Lay up with any filling or icing 
desired. If a few drops of the oil are added to the soft frost- 
ing it will keep it in perfect condition for several days. 

Layer Cake, Soft Frosting 

In laying up a cake with soft frosting, each layer may be 
sprinkled with powdered pistachio nuts. To make it espe- 
cially pretty for a festival occasion, the top may be decora- 
ted with candied mint and rose leaves. 

CAKE FILLINGS AND ICINGS 

Filling for Chocolate Layer Cake 

One half cake chocolate grated and dissolved in a small 
cup of milk; let it come to boihng point, then add three 
quarters of a cup of sugar, a half teaspoon of butter, a half 
saltspoon of salt, and a teaspoon of vanilla flavoring. Boil 
for three minutes, when it is ready for use. 

Lemon Filling 

The grated rind and juice of one lemon, one cup of sugar, 
and one egg, beat thoroughly and boil in double boiler 
until cooked, from six to ten minutes. 



CaKes 465 

Filling for Minnehaha Cake 

A cup and a half of sugar and three quarters of a cup of 
water, cook until it spins a thread; turn onto a cold plate, 
beat for three minutes, then add the stiffly beaten whites of 
two eggs, a half a cup of chopped walnuts, a half a cup 
of finely chopped raisins, one finely chopped strip of candied 
lemon peel, and a teaspoon of vanilla flavoring. Beat 
thoroughly and lay up the cake. 

Marshmallow Filling 

The marshmallow whip comes ready prepared to lay up 
the cake with and is much easier to use than the old way of 
making this troublesome filling. The whip may be flavored 
with maple or any other flavoring liked which lessens 
its rather cloying sweetness. 

Almond Icing 

Equal quantity of ground almonds and icing sugar, — about 
one half pound of each, — sufficient yolk of egg to make into 
a stiff paste, and work weU together. The yolks should 
be beaten with a wooden spoon, the paste worked with the 
hand, kept very smooth and not too soft. Straighten the 
top of the cake, brush it over with white of egg, and then put 
on the icing, which should be made the same size as the cake. 
Decorate with burnt almonds. 

Water Icing 

Use two cups of confectioner's sugar, adding the grated 
rind of one lemon, a tablespoon of lemon juice, and two 
tablespoons of boiling water; stir until smooth, then spread 
upon the cake. 

Royal Icing 

Take one cup of icing sugar, the stiffly beaten white of 
an egg, and a teaspoon of lemon juice, work well together 
30 



4^6 OaKes 

with a wooden spoon. Spread with a knife on as many 
layers as are required. This frosting takes a day to dry. 
It may be decorated with any sort of nuts or other decora- 
tions, or colored with any of the delicate harmless color- 
ings.. 

Maple Sugar Icing 

Boil a half pound of broken maple sugar with a quarter of 
a cup of water until dissolvedand thick enough to rope when 
dropped from the spoon. Pour the syrup gradually over 
the whipped white of two eggs and beat until thick enough 
to spread. 

Boiled Icing 

Boil one cup of granulated sugar with a half a cup of 
water until it ropes from the spoon; pour gradually over 
the stiffly beaten whites of two eggs, beat for five minutes, 
add one teaspoon of vanilla flavoring, and use at once. 

Mocha Filling 

Put into a saucepan the yolks of eight eggs and a half a 
pound of sugar, beat well together, then add a half pint of 
very strong coffee and a half pint of boiling milk. Set the 
saucepan over the fire and stir continually with a small 
whip as the liquid slowly comes to boiling point. Do not 
allow it to boil, but remove it from the fire and let it stand 
until cold. Put eight tablespoons of butter in a hot' sauce- 
pan and soften it sufficiently to be able to work it to a 
cream; when it is creamed pour the coffee mixture into it, 
beating all well together vigorously with a whip, when it will 
be ready to use. 

SMALL CAKES 

Peanut Cookies 

Mix two tablespoons of butter with a quarter of a cup of 
sugar, add one beaten egg, one half cup of flour sifted with a 



CaKes 467 

half teaspoon of baking powder, two tablespoons of milk, 
one third teaspoon of salt, one half cup of chopped peanuts, 
one teaspoon of vanilla, and a grating of nutmeg. Mix all 
carefully together, then drop from the spoon onto an 
unbuttered tin, leaving more than an inch between the 
cookies. 

Jumbles 

One cup of butter, one pint of flour, one and a quarter 
cups of powdered sugar, two tablespoons of sherry, one tea- 
spoon of vanilla, and three eggs. Beat the butter to a 
cream, add the sugar gradually, beating until very light; 
beat the eggs together, add to the butter and sugar, add 
sherry and vanilla and last the sifted flour. Beat well and 
drop by the teaspoon on a baking pan; bake in a moderate 
oven until the edges are a deUcate brown. 

Up-Side-Downie Cakes 

Mix one cup of sugar with one and a half cups of sifted 
flour, one heaping teaspoon of baking powder, the whites 
of two eggs, a half cup of melted butter, and a half a cup 
of sweet cream. Beat all in a mixing bowl for five minutes, 
adding a teaspoon of vanilla. Bake in buttered muffin 
pans. 

Nut Wafers 

Take one half pound of brown sugar and mix with it a 
half pound of chopped pecan nuts, two level tablespoons of 
flour, a half teaspoon of baking powder, a third teaspoon of 
salt, two beaten eggs, a little grated nutmeg, and a teaspoon 
of vanilla flavoring. Mix thoroughly and drop by small 
spoonfuls on buttered tins; bake in a quick oven. 

Puff Balls 

Add to three beaten eggs one cup of sugar, a pint of milk, 
a half teaspoon of salt, one teaspoon of vanilla, and two 



468 CaKes 

heaping teaspoons of baking powder sifted with two cups 
of flour. Beat thoroughly, adding a little more flour to make 
a thick batter which will hold the spoon upright. Drop 
by small spoonfuls into hot fat and fry a delicate brown. 
When done drain, dust with powdered sugar, and when 
cold pack away in a stone crock to use as needed. 

Midgets 

To three eggs, one cup of butter, and one and a half cups 
of sugar mixed together smoothly, add one cup of seeded 
and chopped raisins, a little flnely chopped citron, a tea- 
spoon each of cloves^ allspice, and cinnamon, and sufficient 
flour to make them firm enough to roll. Cut in tiny odd 
shapes with fancy cookie cutter and bake. These may be 
frosted with pistachio frosting and dusted with powdered 
walnuts. 

Walnut Kisses 

Beat the whites of six eggs stiff; add one pound of finely 
sifted powdered sugar, two tablespoons of flour, and one 
pound of chopped walnut meats. Add a little vanilla 
flavoring and mix all well together. Drop in teaspoons on 
a well buttered pan and bake in a moderate oven. 

Victoria Sandwiches 

Beat to a cream the yolks of four eggs and add their 
weight in sugar, butter, and flour; when creamy add the 
well beaten whites of the eggs; butter a shallow baking 
pan, and pour in the batter. Bake in a moderate oven for 
twenty minutes. Let cool, then spread one half of the cake 
with preserves, lay the other half over it, and cut into small 
sandwiches. 

Cocoanut Drops 

Two cups of freshly grated cocoanut, one cup of sugar, 
one tablespoon of flour, the stiffly beaten white of one 



CaKes 469 

egg. Mix all together, adding a half teaspoon of vanilla; 
drop by the spoonful on buttered paper, sift a little sugar 
over them, and bake fifteen minutes in a slow oven. 

Jolly Boys 

Sift carefully two and a half heaping tablespoons of 
yellow corimieal, two heaping tablespoons of flour, one 
tablespoon of sugar, a saltspoon of salt, and a teaspoon of 
baking powder; add one beaten egg to the mixture and 
then enough sweet milk to make a drop batter; stir in quick- 
ly one teaspoon of melted butter, beat well, and drop by 
teaspoons in hot fat. When they are a delicate brown serve 
in a napkin. 

Macaroons 

Take one half pound of almond paste, nine ounces of 
powdered sugar, the stiffly beaten whites of three eggs, 
a half teaspoon of vanilla, and one tablespoon of sifted flour; 
mix all thoroughly and drop onto a clean, ungreased bak- 
ing pan. Bake a delicate brown. 

Snippi Doodles 

Cream together one cup of sugar and a tablespoon of but- 
ter, then add one cup of floiur, a teaspoon of baking powder, 
and a teaspoon of ground cinnamon; mix well and add one 
beaten egg and half a cup of milk. Spread very thin on a 
buttered baking sheet. When nearly done sprinkle the 
surface with sugar and when brown remove from the oven, 
cut into squares, and remove quickly with a knife. These 
are thin crisp cookies and unusually good. 

Fruit Pinwheel 

Rub through a sieve one pint of flour, a tablespoon of 
sugar, half saltspoon of salt, and two teaspoons of baking 
powder. Into this rub two generous tablespoons of butter 



470 CaKes 

and mix thoroughly with a half pint of milk. Flour the 
board and roll the dough out into a large square half an inch 
in thickness, spread a heaping tablespoon of soft butter on 
top of this, and sift over it a cup of sugar and a cup of well 
washed currants; grate a little nutmeg over the top. Cut 
and fold back the points to form a pinwheel, just as kinder- 
garten children do, and bake on a well greased baking tin 
twelve to fifteen minutes in a brisk oven. 

Cookies 

Three quarters of a cup of butter and a quarter of a cup 
of lard, two cups of sugar and five cups of flour rubbed well 
together, a teaspoon of baking powder, two eggs, and a half 
cup of milk. Mix all well, roll thin, and bake quickly. 

Austrian Apple Cake 

To one cup of sugar add a quarter of a cup of butter and 
the yolks of three eggs, beat to a cream, then add one 
and a half cups of flour, two teaspoons of baking powder, 
and a cup of milk. Mix thoroughly, then add the stiffly 
beaten whites of the eggs. PoUr into a shallow, greased 
pan and cover the top with very thinly sliced and quartered 
apples, sprinkling all with cinnamon and sugar mixed to- 
gether. 

Apple Cheesecakes 

Pare, core, and boil sufficient apples to make a half pound 
when cooked; add to this pulp a quarter pound of sugar, a 
quarter pound of melted butter, four eggs, leaving out the 
whites of two, and the rind and juice of one lemon. Stir 
the mixture weU, line patty pans with puff paste and fill 
them, and bake about twenty minutes. 

For some of the little cakes, pound cake, silver cake, 
sponge cake, and solid chocolate cake dough is used, varying 
them with different tinted fancy frostings garnished with 



CaKes 471 

split blanched almonds, chopped almonds, almonds rolled 
in jelly, almonds wrapped in seeded half raisins, strips of 
angelica, sweet seeds, chopped currants, preserved cherries, 
candied pineapple, grated lemon peel, tiny silvered candied 
hearts, candy mites, and candied mint, violet, and rose 
leaves. These various garnishes are pressed into the frost- 
ing while it is still soft, then as it hardens they stiffen into 
place and are not easily dislodged. 

The colorings used are the French Breton make, purely 
vegetable and harmless. Green, pink, violet, and yellow 
will be found quite satisfactory, and with chocolate and 
vanilla the cook has six different color combinations. 

The " Doed-Koecks " of Dutch Origin 

Weird funeral souvenirs of Dutch origin were called 
" Doed-Koecks " or " dead cakes. " With a small bottle of 
wine and a pair of gloves, two of these were sent by way of 
invitation to relatives and friends whom one wanted to 
attend the funeral. 

The original recipe for these cakes, which is said to be 
authentic, called for fourteen pounds of flour, six pounds of 
sugar, five pounds of butter, one quart of water, two tea- 
spoons of pearl ash, two tablespoons of salt, and one ounce 
of caraway seed. These were baked in four-inch squares, 
then frosted and marked with the initials of the "departed 
friend. " Sometimes they were eaten at the funeral dinner, 
but usually they were taken away, like wedding cakes, as 
souvenirs. 

Many bakers made a specialty of "funeral cookery," one 
baker in Philadelphia advertising the specialty as recently 
as 1748. 

Simnel Cake for Lent 

The simnel cake is sacred to mid-Lent Sunday, as is the 
pancake to Shrove Tuesday and the hot cross bun to Good 



472 CaKes 

Friday. For the devout people who keep Lent in the 
orthodox way this famous old recipe may be of interest. 

Take one pound of butter, three quarters of a pound of 
sugar, whites of six eggs beaten stiff, six yolks beaten in a 
little water, one and a half pounds of flour, currants, citron, 
grated peel, chopped nuts, spices and two ounces of orange 
sugar, a wineglass of brandy, and naix all together well. 
Place in a well flovired cloth, pltmge into boiling water, 
and boil three hours. Remove cloth and place on a well 
buttered tin, brush over with egg, and bake in a slow oven 
until the crust is hard and a light brown. 

DOUGHNUTS 

Grandmother's Crullers 

Two cups of sugar, one cup of sweet milk, three eggs, a 
Itunp of butter the size of a walnut, a grating of nutmeg, 
one round teaspoon of cream tartar, and three quarters 
of a teaspoon of soda. Knead quite soft and roU the usual 
thickness, cook in deep fat, and sprinkle with powdered 
sugar. When cold pack away in a stone crock. 

Crullers 

Two cups of sugar, one cup of sweet mUk, three eggs, 
teaspoon of butter, grating of nutmeg, a round teaspoon of 
cream of tartar, three quarters of a teaspoon of soda; 
mbi, knead quite soft, roU out to half -inch thickness, cut, 
and drop in deep, hot fat; when done dust lightly with pow- 
dered sugar. 

Raised Jelly Doughnuts 

Make a sponge of one pint of milk, three quarters of a cup 
of butter, three quarters of a yeast cake dissolved in a cup of 
cold water; sift in enough flour to make a batter that can be 
stirred with a spoon, and add three quarters of a cup of 
sugar. When this has risen, say four or five hours, add 



CaKes 473 

three cups of sugar, four eggs, a grating of nutmeg, a tea- 
spoon of vanilla flavoring; add a little flour if necessary, 
turn onto the floured board, roll, and cut into rounds. 
Let them rise from twenty minutes to half an hour, setting 
the board where it is a little warm; fry in hot fat; when 
cool enough to handle, make a little opening at the side 
with a sharp knife and tuck in a teaspoon of currant, black- 
berry, or quince jelly. Roll in powdered sugar and stow 
away in a crock. 

Nut Doughnuts 

Rub one cup of granulated sugar with two tablespoons of 
melted butter, when smooth add three well beaten eggs, two 
cups of milk, a teaspoon of salt, a teaspoon of vanilla, and 
sift in five cups of flotir to which two heaping teaspoons 
of baking powder have been added. When all is mixed stir 
in a cupful of chopped nuts, of any kind liked, roll out, cut, 
and fry in deep lard. 

MOLASSES DAINTIES 

Gingerbread 

A pound and a half of flour takes up one pound of treacle, 

almost as much sugar, an ounce of ground ginger, two ounces 

caraway, four ounces citron and candied lemon peel, the 

yolks of four eggs; cut your sweetmeats, mix all, and bake 

■ in large plates. A recipe popular in 1724. 

Honeycomb Gingerbread 

Mix together a heaping cup of flour, a half pound of 
brown sugar, a quarter pound of soft butter, one dessert- 
spoon of allspice, and two dessertspoons of ground ginger. 
Add the grated peel of half a lemon and the whole of the 
juice. Mix the ingredients thoroughly; then pour in a cup 



474 CaKes 

of New Orleans molasses ; beat all well, then spread thinly on 
shallow buttered pans. Bake in rather a slow oven and 
watch carefully. When done, remove from the oven and, 
with a sharp knife, cut into four-inch squares, rolling each 
piece around the fingers as it is raised from the pan. 

Soft Molasses Cookies 

Put one cup of molasses into a mixing bowl, then sift in 
one tablespoon of ground ginger, two tablespoons of warm 
milk, one third of a cup of warm soft butter, one teaspoon 
of baking soda, and enough flour to make a soft dough, just 
firm enough to roU out half an inch thick. Cut with a 
round or fancy cutter and bake in a brisk oven. 

Maple Ginger Cake 

Mix a half cup of butter with a cup of sugar, add a half 
cup of milk, two beaten eggs, one cup of New Orleans 
molasses, one tablespoon of ground ginger, a teaspoon of 
allspice, one and a half teaspoons of baking powder, and two 
cups of flour. Mix thoroughly and bake in square, shallow 
pans. When done, lay the cakes up with a well made 
maple icing between the layers. If the cake layer is too 
thick, it may be easily split after it is sUghtly cool. Half 
candied cherries may be set into the icing on top, by way of 
decoration. 

Spice Cakes 

Beat the yolks of three eggs with one cup of molasses, add 
a half cup of butter, a half cup of milk, three cups of flour, a 
pinch of salt, two teaspoons of baking powder, a dessert- 
spoon of vanilla, and a teaspoon each of cinnamon, cloves, 
and allspice, with a generous grating of nutmeg. Bake in 
fancy patty pans and frost with chocolate, marshmaUow, 
or pistachio icing. If desired, a teaspoon of ground ginger 
may be added to the cakes, though this is a matter of taste. 



CaKes 475 

Farmers' Fruit Cake 

Take one cup of dried apples, chop them, and soak them 
overnight. In the morning let them simmer for two hours 
in a cup of New Orleans molasses, then set aside to get 
slightly cool. Take one cup of sugar, a third of a cup of 
butter, a half cup of sour milk in which a teaspoon of bak- 
ing soda has been dissolved, two teaspoons of ground cinna- 
mon and one of cloves, two beaten eggs, and two cups 
of finely sifted flour. Mix all well and add the apple and 
molasses. Bake in well buttered square pans. 

Honey and Sour Milk Gingerbread 

Blend together one cup of honey, a half a cup of butter, 
heat, and just before they reach boUing point, remove from 
fire. AUow the mixture to cool slightly, then add a half a 
cup of sour milk, two well beaten eggs, a half teaspoon of 
cinnamon, the same of ginger and salt, and one and three 
quarters teaspoons of soda. Bake in a shallow buttered 
pan and when cool, ice thinly. 

Mexican Cake 

Turn one cup of molasses into a mixing bowl with two 
tablespoons of melted butter, one cup of boiling water, one 
teaspoon of baking soda dissolved in a little boiling water, 
one heaping tablespoon of ground ginger, and three cups of 
sifted flour. Turn into buttered layer cake pans and bake. 
Have ready, when the cakes are done, a lemon filling made 
after this recipe: two cups of sugar, the grated rind of 
two lemons and the strained juice; two tablespoons of flour 
mixed with cold water, one tablespoon of melted butter, 
one cup of boiling water. After thoroughly mixing, add 
the beaten whites of two eggs and cook aU together in 
a double boiler until thickened. Let cool slightly before 
laying up the cake, then frost the top with a soft frosting 



47^ CaKes 

flavored with lemon, and decorate the top of the cake with 
candied kumquats, cut in halves or slices. 

Crisp Ginger Snaps 

Boil together one cup of molasses, two tablespoons of 
lard, one tablespoon ground ginger, one teaspoon soda, a 
pinch of salt; when blended add enough flotir to roll out 
thin, cut in fancy shapes, and bake quickly. 

Gingerbread 

To make gingerbread take one cupful of butter, one cup- 
ful of brown sugar, one cup of sour cream, one cup of mo- 
lasses, four eggs, four cups of flour, a teaspoon of salt, two 
teaspoons of yellow ginger, and one teaspoon of soda 
dissolved in warm water. Mix thoroughly and bake in 
shallow, well buttered tins. 



HOME-MADE ICE CREAMS 

With the many ice cream freezers that there are now 
on the market, including the electric, the vacuum, and the 
so-called five-minute freezers, cream making at home with 
reliable recipes is an easy matter. 

A canvas bag with a wooden mallet comes especially for 
the preparing of the ice packing, while the rock salt is also 
conveniently bagged. One rule that has to be followed 
in caring for all freezers is that they must be kept absolutely 
clean, being thoroughly washed and dried after using in the 
sun or over a stove grating if they are of metal, so there is 
no possibility of rusting or corroding in any of their parts. 

The propelling apparatus of these new freezers require the 
same care that one would give any good machine, keeping 
them clean and properly oiled to do the most effective work. 

All ingredients for successful cream making must be of the 
very best quality; fresh eggs, sweet milk and cream, ripe 
but firm fruit carefully washed, the best cordials or liquors, 
fine grated sugar, the best syrups and flavorings — they only 
will give the best results. 

Remember in flavoring cream that the freezing flattens it, 
so a little more is needed than one would use in a custard or 
in a dish that is simply to be chilled, to give it the right 
flavor. 

If the cream is to be molded or simply left to ripen, and 
the dasher has to be removed for the purpose, great care 
must be taken in opening the freezer lest any salt should 
get in, in fact it is always safer to cover the top of the 
freezer with a square of asbestos paper thus insuring safety 
for the contents before putting on the cover. 

477 



478 Home-made Ice Creams 

After the cream has been molded in square tins or fancy 
shapes and when it is time to be served, invert the mold 
over the dish; if the cream clings persistently to the mold, 
wring a heavy clean cloth out of hot water and bind it 
around the mold for a couple of minutes ; then the cream 
will slip out quite easily; but do not allow the cloth to 
remain long enough to melt the cream perceptibly. 

In cooking any of the recipes containing milk, exquisite 
care must be taken that not the slightest scorching should 
occur to taint the mixture. For this reason it is safer to use 
an enamel or porcelain lined double boiler for this purpose, 
keeping it for this use only if many creams are made. 

For frozen fruits whipped cream is best to serve so as not 
to have any conflicting flavors. Fresh strawberries dipped 
in powdered sugar and placed around the edge of the cream 
on a dish make a very good arrangement, decorative and 
good to eat as well. 

Sherbets and mousses, ices and frozen custards are usu- 
ally served plain, as sauce would make them too thin. 
Small cakes, however, are offered with them. 

Harmless coloring fluids add much to decorative color 
schemes for extra occasions if properly used. 

It is said that Dolly Madison was the first to introduce 
the custom of serving ice cream at the White House 
functions. 

Vanilla Cream to Use with a Sauce 

A quart and a pint of rich cream and one pint of rich milk 
with one pound of sugar and a dessert spoon of the best 
vanilla flavoring, should be carefully mixed and turned into 
the freezer and frozen hard. When ready to serve the fol- 
lowing sauce is tturned over it: Wash, hull, and halve a 
quart of fresh, ripe strawberries. Take a cup and a half 
of sugar, turn into it a half cup of boiling water and when 
melted and hot turn over the berries; let them stand in a 
warm place or in the sun, stirring every few minutes for two 
hours, then set away to chill until needed. 



Home-made Ice Creams 479 

Chocolate Ice Cream 

Dissolve six ounces of grated chocolate in a small quantity 
of milk and work to a smooth paste ; add three pints of cream, 
twelve ounces of sugar, and four whole eggs. Place all in a 
double boiler and stir until it begins to thicken, then strain 
through a sieve and place in the freezer. A teaspoon of 
vanilla flavoring will help bring out the flavor of the choco- 
late. 

Biscuit Glace 

Mix with one and a half pints of cream twelve ounces of, 
sugar, the yolks of eight eggs, and two teaspoons of vanilla. 
Turn into a double boiler and cook until it begins to thicken, 
strain through a sieve into the freezer, freeze ten minutes, 
then open and add the whites of two eggs beaten stiff with a 
little powdered sugar and a quarter of a pound of stale maca- 
roons that have been roUed into crumbs, two more tea- 
spoons of vanilla, re-cover, and finish freezing. A gill of 
sherry may be added at this time, but it is not necessary. 

Tutti Frutti 

Add to one pint of milk two cups of sugar, two eggs, a 
tablespoon of sifted flour, two tablespoons of gelatine powder 
soaked in a little cold water, mix thoroughly, and let them 
come to a boil. Cook until they reach the right consistency, 
between fifteen and twenty minutes, then add the gelatine; 
when smooth and cool, add one quart of cream, put in the 
freezer, freeze ten minutes, then add the fruit, a cup of can- 
died cherries, a little grated pineapple, six chopped candied 
marrons, a little angelica, a dozen seeded and finely chop- 
ped raisins and a few powdered pistachio nuts, one wineglass 
of apricot cordial; then cover the freezer again and finish 
freezing. 

Pineapple Ice Cream 

Grate or chop very fine one large sugarloaf pineapple, add 
to it two and a half cups of sugar, let stand a couple of hours, 



480 Home-made Ice Creams 

stirring every once in awhile, then strain and squeeze 
through a jelly bag, setting aside two heaping tablespoons 
of the fruit first to add to the cream. Add a quart of 
cream to the liquid and one pint of rich nulk, pour into the 
freezer and freeze ten minutes, then add the pineapple, 
re-cover, and finish freezing. 

French Frozen Custard 

Make a rich custard with the yolks of six eggs, a quart of 
rich milk, pinch of salt, three quarters of a cup of sugar, and 
boU in double boiler until the custard is the right consist- 
ency. Let it cool, then add a pint of heavy cream, the 
whites of four of the eggs beaten until stiff with three 
tablespoons of powdered sugar, and add them to the cus- 
tard with a tablespoon of the best vanilla flavoring. Stir 
all into the freezer and freeze. This wiU make three pints 
of cream, or enough to serve ten people with one portion 
each. 

Frozen Custard 

Dissolve two teaspoons of powdered gelatine in two cups of 
milk; beat three tablespoons of sugar with the yolks of two 
eggs until light, then add it slowly to the milk. Cook in 
a double boiler, stirring but one way, until it thickens. 
Remove from the fire and cool; when cold fold in the stiffly 
beaten whites of the eggs, a tablespoon of vanilla, and pour 
into the freezer and freeze. Serve with macaroons, lady- 
fingers, or white cake. 

Caramel Ice Cream 

Melt one cup of white sugar in an iron frying pan. Boil 
one quart of milk with a stick of cinnamon and pour it over 
the beaten yolks of six eggs, then add the caramel, and, 
when cool, turn the mixture into the freezer, adding the 
beaten egg whites and a teaspoon of vanilla. Freeze 
and let stand two hours to ripen before using. Whipped 



Home-made Ice Creams 4S1 

cream is good served over this cream, or a vanilla syrup 
with chopped walnuts. 

Brown Bread Ice Cream 

Pour a pint of boiling milk over three ounces of brown 
bread crumbs, add five ounces of sugar, a teaspoon of vanilla, 
and one and a half tablespoons of gelatine dissolved in a 
little water. Stir until aU is dissolved ; when cool add a half 
pint of cream and freeze. A half wineglass of good brandy 
may be added, if desired, to heighten the flavoring. 

Ginger Ice Cream 

Dissolve one teaspoon of powdered gelatine in a cup of hot 
water; add a tablespoon of lemon juice, three ounces of 
sugar, a cup of ginger syrup drained from a small jar of 
preserved ginger, and fold in two cups of heavy cream. 
Put in the freezer and, when partly frozen, add two sprays 
of the ginger root, which must be chopped fine. 

Raspberry Ice Cream 

Dissolve one tablespoon of powdered gelatine in a cupful 
of milk, add two cups of sugar and four cups of cream; 
stir until aU is melted, then strain and add one quart of ripe 
red raspberries that have been carefully washed. Pour into 
a freezer and freeze hard. This will be enough for ten 
people. 

Baked Ice Cream 

Have the cream to be baked frozen very hard and cut into 
blocks the size of individual service. Have the whites of 
eggs beaten very stiff with powdered sugar and a dash of 
brandy, spread the m&ingue quickly over the blocks placed 
on a baking sheet and thrust them into the hot oven for a, 
minute or two to brown the meringue, but watch that it 
does not bum as that ruins them. Serve quickly with 
macaroons. 
31 



4^2 Home-made Ice Creams 

Frozen Peaches 

Frozen peaches may be made rich or plain, so one may 
choose from the following two recipes the one that seems 
best: 

Plain recipe — Take enough peaches to make one quart 
when stoned, pared, and chopped fine. Add two cups of 
sugar and let stand for one hour, then add a quart of milk 
and freeze. Serve with sponge cake or lady fingers. 

Rich recipe — Take enough ripe sweet peaches to make 
a full quart after paring, stoning, and cutting into small 
pieces. Add to them a pint of sugar and let stand an hour, 
then add a quart of cream, place in the freezer and freeze 
ten minutes, then open and add the stifily beaten whites of 
two eggs that have been beaten with three dessertspoons of 
powdered sugar and a teaspoon of rose flavoring. Close the 
freezer and continue until the cream is hard, then allow it 
to ripen for two hours. Serve with it silver cake or old- 
fashioned pound cake with a soft frosting. 

Frozen Strawberries 

Wash two quarts of fresh strawberries, cut them in 
pieces, sugar well, and let stand in a fairly warm place for a 
couple of hours. Add a quart of sweet cream and the 
beaten whites of two eggs and freeze. Serve either in 
glasses or in parfait cups. 

Frozen Date Custard 

Place a pint of rich milk in a double boiler and when it is 
hot stir in a pinch of salt, three eggs, well beaten, with 
three quarters of a cup of sugar. Cook constantly, stirring 
until the custard is well thickened, remove, and when cold 
^old in a half pint of whipped cream and a teaspoon of 
vanilla, pour into freezer and freeze for six minutes, then 
remove the cover and put in a cupful of chopped seeded 
dates and a half cup of rum; freeze and serve with a cordial 



Home-made Ice Creams 483 

sauce. Take one cup of sugar and melt in a quarter cup of 
boiling water; allow it to boil four minutes. When cold 
add a gill of apricot cordial, pouring a little over the cus- 
tard. 

Frozen Cherries 

Take four cups of stoned ripe cherries, add two and a 
half cups of sugar, and let stand an hour; then add a pint of 
rich milk, the beaten whites of two eggs, and a pint of cream. 
Freeze and serve with silver cake. ' 

Peach Melba 

Select a large ripe peach for each person to be served. 
Dip each peach in boiling water to remove the skin. Place 
a large spoonful of vanilla ice cream on a square of sponge 
cake, lay the peach upon it, turn over it some raspberry 
syrup, and sprinkle crumbed macaroons on top. Have all 
ingredients ready, as the serving must be done before the 
cream melts. 

Apricot Cream 

Add to a half pound of apricot jam a teaspoon of almond 
flavoring, juice of one lemon, and a glass of Noyeau cordial. 
Mix thoroughly, add one pint of cream, and freeze. 

Frozen Plum Pudding 

Dissolve a half ounce of powdered gelatine in four table- 
spoons of hot water. Cook one cup of sugar in one cup 
of water until it threads from the spoon. Beat the yolks of 
three eggs, add them to the syrup, and beat until cool; then 
add the melted gelatine and fold in two cups of whipped 
cream. When all is mixed, add a half cup of seeded raisins, 
a cup of blanched and chopped almonds, a half pound of 
mixed candied fruits, a teaspoon of vanilla, and two drops of 



484 Home-made Ice Creams 

oil of cloves; turn all into the freezer. When nearly frozen, 
add the stifHy beaten whites of the three eggs that have been 
beaten with a Uttle powdered sugar, and two teaspoons of 
orange flower water. When ready to serve, unmold 
and serve in slices with any good plum-pudding sauce. 

Frozen Apricots 

Pare and cut up enough apricots to equal a quart of solid 
fruit; add two cups of granulated sugar and a half a cup of 
pineapple juice squeezed from the fresh fruit. Let stand 
four hours; then add a pint of heavy cream and the stiffly 
beaten whites of two fresh eggs. Put into the freezer and 
when half frozen add a wineglass of apricot brandy. 

Nesselrode Pudding 

Blanch forty chestnuts in boihng water, after peeUng 
them and removing their husks ; then pound them in a mortar 
until they are perfectly smooth, adding a few spoonfuls of 
vanilla syrup. Rub them through a sieve and mix them in 
a basin with a pint of the vanilla syrup, one pint of cream, 
and the yolks of twelve eggs. Set this mixture over a slow fire, 
without stopping the stirring, until it reaches boihng point. 
Remove from the fire and pass through a sieve. When 
cold, put it in the freezer, adding a tablespoon of ginger 
syrup and two teaspoons of vanilla flavoring. When the 
mixtiu-e begins to set, open the freezer and add one ounce 
of candied citron chopped fine, two ounces of carefully 
washed currants, two ounces of stoned raisins, two ounces of 
chopped candied cherries, and one ounce of chopped candied 
pineapple. Cut fine four marron glac6s and add them 
also to the mixture, with a pint of whipped cream and the 
whites of three eggs beaten very stiff with a little vanilla 
syrup. Pack individual pudding molds with the mixture. 
Have whipped cream, well drained and chilled, to be served 
with them. 



Home-made Ice Creams 485 

French Frozen Milk Punch 

Take one quart of milk and add to it two cups of sugar, 
let boil up, add a grating of nutmeg, and let cool. When cold 
put into the freezer, adding three cups of whipped cream, 
a teaspoon of vanilla, and, a half cup of rum. Freeze and 
when almost frozen open again and add a half cup of French 
brandy; Let stand an hour to ripen before using. 

SAUCES TO SERVE WITH ICE CREAM 

Ice cream in days gone by used to be quite sufficient 
unto itself, but nowadays it must have a sauce of some sort 
to add to its richness or some unusual sweetmeat served 
with it, so that it is quite as complicated as any other des- 
sert. There are, however, quite a number of the fruit 
sauces put up in glass that may be purchased. These in- 
clude pur6e of apricots, strawberries, raspberries, pears, red 
cturants, peaches, and plums. Richly preserved fruits and 
those preserved whole are very popular served beside the 
creams. 

Homemade sauces are varied and may be used hot or 
cold. One is made of strained honey, heated, and has 
blanched and chopped hazel nuts added. Another tasteful 
one is maple syrup with chopped walnuts. Marshmallow 
syrup with pecan nuts, vanilla syrup with pistachio nuts, 
chocolate sauce and whipped cream with grated pineapple 
are also well known and liked. 

Fresh fruit jellies are another favorite sweet to serve 
with cream. The jelly is occasionally molded and arranged 
between bricks of cream and when the whole is served it is 
cut across so as to leave it like a layer cake in effect. 

Sauce " Honey Love " 

This sauce is to use with French vanilla cream. Chop 
fine a half cup of English walnuts, a thin strip of angelica, 
six seeded raisins, four maraschino cherries; add a cup of 



4^6 Home-made Ice Creams 

strained honey, to which the juice of half a lemon has been 
added. A tablespoon of sherry or of rum added is an 
improvement, but not a necessity. Pour the mixture over 
the ice cream, heap a tablespoon of whipped cream on top 
and decorate with a cherry. 

Green Almond Sauce for Ice Cream 

In making this sauce for the ice cream, get a jar of green 
almonds, drain, and slice them through the kernel, which is 
soft when the nut is green, then add as much of the liquor in 
which they were preserved as is needed. Pour over each 
portion of ice cream, then put a spoonful of whipped cream 
on the top and one whole almond in the center by way of 
a garnish. 

Strawberry Sauce 

For the strawberry sauce to go with the pistachio cream 
use a pint of small, sweet strawberries chopped fine. Cover 
with sugar and allow them to stand in a warm place until 
the sugar is thoroughly melted, then put the mixture 
through a pur^e sieve. Add to it large berries cut in quar- 
ters and chill before serving with the cream. 

Meringue and Whipped Cream Sauce 

Beat the whites of four eggs very stiff, adding three table- 
spoons of powdered sugar and a teaspoon of vanilla to 
them. Turn out a quart of vanilla ice cream frozen very 
hard, cover in with the m6ringue thickly, and put it 
into a very hot oven until the meringue is lightly browned . 
or, if the oven is not hot enough to do it quickly, then 
drop the eggs in spoonfuls on a lightly buttered paper, 
brown in the oven, and place them over the ice cream. 
Have ready one pint of whipped cream, to which has been 
added two tablespoons of finely chopped pecan nuts and 
two teaspoons of Anisette cordial, and put a spoonful on 
each portion. 



Home-made Ice Creams 487 

Chocolate Sauce 

Dissolve one half cake of chocolate in one cup of milk, 
bring to boiling point, then add a half cup of sugar, a small 
piece of butter, and let boil for four or five nainutes; remove 
from the fire, add two teaspoons of vaniUa, and set aside to 
cool but do not chill. This sauce may be used over vanilla 
or chocolate cream. 

Pineapple Sauce 

Grate one fresh ripe pineapple, add to it two cups of 
sugar, two tablespoons of finely chopped preserved ginger, 
with two tablespoons of the ginger syrup; mix until all is 
melted together, and it is ready to use. 

Maple Sauce 

Melt one pound of maple sugar in one pint of boiling 
water, let boil five minutes, strain, and add a cup and a half 
of chopped walnuts. 

Chestnut Sauce 

Take a cupful of boiled chestnuts, chop them into small 
pieces, and add a pint of spiced white syrup made of two cups 
of white sugar boiled with a cup of water. When it has 
boiled and cleared, add a teaspoon of vanilla. A spice bag 
and a lemon rind used in boiling give a delicious savory 
flavor. 

Sea Foam Sauce 

Beat the white of one egg with a half cup of powdered 
sugar to a stiff froth. Whip one cup of cream stiff and 
drain it. Mix all together and beat in a tablespoon of 
sherry. Chill, and dust with nutmeg. 

NOVEL WAYS TO SERVE ICE CREAM 

Variety of ways to serve ice cream is perhaps more impor- 
tant than variety of creams to be served. There are many 



488 Home-made Ice Creams 

pretty individual molds into which the cream may be 
packed, but this means a good deal of work, and there are 
other ways of serving cream that are easier and just as 
effective. 

For example, one way is to halve large oranges and re- 
move the pulp carefully, throw the shells into cold water 
until they are needed. Make a good orange jelly out of 
the pulp, wipe half of the orange shells dry, fill them with 
the jelly, and set them away to chill. When ready to serve 
wipe the other half of the skins dry and fill with ice cream, 
smoothing off the tops evenly, then turn a jelly-filled half 
and an ice cream-filled half together. Tie them in place 
with narrow white satin ribbon, draw a spoon through the 
bow and lay them on a paper doily on the plate, with a 
square of delicate cake beside them, and serve. 

Ice Cream Sandwiches 

Split in half lengthwise as many little sponge cakes 
as there are guests to be served. Whip a cup of cream; 
have the ice cream frozen very hard in a square mold, then 
cut slices from it the size of the cakes, and lay the cakes up 
with it in sandwich form. Put the whipped cream into 
the pastry bag, squeeze a rose on top of each sandwich, and 
serve. 

Raspberry Rings 

Make a good clear raspberry gelatine jelly, turn it into 
wet individual ring molds, allowing one to each cover, and 
let it set. When ready turn out onto plates and put a 
spoonful of raspberry ice and vanilla cream in the center of 
each mold, decorating the top with a little whipped cream 
put through a pastry bag. 

Banana Boats 

Select large, mellow bananas, and cut out lengthways one 
strip of the peel; then hollow out the banana without break- 



Home-made Ice Creams 489 

ing the skin. Throw the boats into cold water and allow 
them to remain there until needed. Make banana ice 
cream in the usual way ; when ready, drain and dry the boats 
with a soft cloth and fill them smoothly with the banana 
ice cream, dust the top of each with a little powdered dry 
macaroon, and serve with nut hermits. 

Frozen Peach Shortcake 

Make two thin layers of rich cup cake, the same as for 
layer cake. Have ready a quart of frozen peaches, spread 
one of the layers thickly with the peaches, put on the other 
layer, and spread it thinly with frozen fruit, heaping whipped 
cream on top. Save enough of the peach juice before freez- 
ing to make a small tureen of peach syrup to serve with the 
shortcake. Serve immediately after putting together. 

Pineapple Cones 

Pare carefully medium sized pineapples and cut them in 
half, slicing a little from each end so that they will stand 
steadily. With a sharp knife hollow out the center core. 
Dust the pineapple cup with sugar and fill with cream, 
sprinkling the top with finely chopped candied cherries. 
Squeeze the hard cores and add the juice, with a tablespoon 
of ginger syrup, to a cup of sugar syrup made from half 
a cup of sugar and half a cup of water. Serve the sauce 
with the cream cones. 

Watermelon Boat 

Cut a ripe melon lengthways, and hollow out the meat 
with a tablespoon, dropping the pieces into an enamel sieve 
set in a bowl of cracked ice. When the melon is ready 
fill half with pink orange ice and half with pistachio cream, 
and garnish the edge with fancy rounds of melon, serving 
two with each portion. Small cantaloupes are also pretty 
cut in half and filled one half with yellow orange ice and 



490 Home-made Ice Creams 

the other half with the pistachio cream, or one half with 
raspberry ice and the other with chocolate cream. 

Frozen Rice Pudding 

Put six ounces of rice into a stewpan with one quart of 
milk and a half pound of sugar. Cook until the rice is soft 
(if the milk cooks away, add a little more), then add the 
beaten yolks of six eggs and a tablespoon of vanilla. When 
slightly thickened stand aside to cool, then turn into a 
freezer; after freezing for ten minutes open and add the egg 
whites beaten stiff with a little powdered sugar. Have 
ready a dish of stewed apricots that have rich syrup and 
have been chilled, turn out the frozen pudding, pour the 
fruit around it, and heap with whipped cream. 

Frozen Cream 

Whip a quart of cream till quite firm, lay it on a sieve, 
and when well drained mix into it eight ounces of icing sugar 
and fill round-shaped molds with it, pack in ice, freeze 
an hour for each quart, and unmold them in a very cold 
dish. 

Make a hole in the top of this molded ice cream and 
fill in a mac^doine of fruits and serve with a chocolate 
sauce. Serve small chocolate puffs around the edge of the 
dish. 

SHERBETS AND ICES 

Sherbets and ices make easy and refreshing desserts for 
warm days and may be prepared several hours before they 
are needed, leaving only the actual freezing to be done at 
the last minute. An ice or a sherbet, being less rich than 
ice cream, is often preferred at luncheon time, while many 
people enjoy a fruit sherbet in place of the ordinary break- 
fast fruit. 

Ices may be colored almost any color desired to follow 



Home-made Ice Creams 491 

the general color scheme of the table decoration on special 
occasions. Sherbets are often used to break a heavy dinner, 
coming just before the salad course. 

Peach Sherbet 

Pare and cut fine two quarts of fresh ripe peaches, then 
mash them through a sieve. Dissolve one heaping 
tablespoon of gelatine powder in a half gill of hot water; add 
to it a half pint of milk, twelve ounces or a cup and a half 
of sugar, and one pint of cream. Mix all thoroughly, and 
when cold pour into the freezer and freeze. 

Pineapple Sherbet 

One quart of finely chopped preserved pineapple, one 
quart of cream and the stiffly beaten whites of two eggs; 
mix all well together and freeze. Any other sweet fresh fruit 
may be frozen in this way. 

Lemon Sherbet 

Mix the juice of three lemons with one and a half cups 
of sugar; add slowly, constantly stirring, one quart of milk 
(if added slowly it will not curdle) , turn into the freezer, and 
freeze. 

Lilac Sherbet 

Warm a half pint of grape jelly or one pint of fresh grape 
juice and dissolve in one cup of sugar. Mix with it one 
quart of rich milk, ice cold, and freeze at once. Serve with 
frosted cakes. 

Plum Sherbet 

Warm one pint of fresh plum juice and dissolve in it one 
cup of sugar, then add one quart of rich, cold milk and 
freeze at once. This makes a very pretty colored sherbet. 



492 Home- made Ice Creams 

Gooseberry Sherbet 

Stew one quart of fresh, ripe gooseberries, one pound of 
sugar, and one pint of water together, until the gooseberries 
are thoroughly soft. Throw in the grated peel and juice of 
half a lemon, and six cloves. When done, strain and cool, 
and when cold turn into the freezer, add one quart of cream, 
and freeze at once. 

Banana Sherbet 

Dissolve a half ounce of powdered gelatine in half a cup of 
boiling water. Add two cups of sugar to a quart of cold 
water, boil for ten minutes, and turn it into the gelatine. 
When this is cool, add the strained juice of two lemons and 
four bananas that have been rubbed through a sieve. Beat 
all together and freeze in the usual way. After freezing 
it may stand and harden until it is needed. 

Prune Sherbet 

Stew one pound of large French prunes until they are 
tender, adding no sugar. Remove from the fire, drain, and 
save the juice, in which dissolve a cup and a half of sugar and 
two teaspoons of gelatine powder that has been dissolved in 
a little cold water. When all is melted together, boil five 
minutes. Take the stones from the prunes, then chop 
them, and strain the prune liquor over them; when cold 
add one pint of whipped cream, a tablespoon of vanilla, and 
two egg whites beaten stiff with a tablespoon of sugar. 
Pour in freezer and freeze. 

Rhubarb Sherbet 

Cook two pounds of rhubarb cut in pieces, first allowing it 
to scald in boiling water for five minutes ; drain and add the 
grated rind and juice of one lemon, two cups of sugar, and 
half a cup of cold water. Cook until it is done, then add one 
cup of pineapple juice and one cup of spiced syrup. Put 



Home-made Ice Creams 493 

in the freezer, freeze it partly, and let it stand to ripen. 
When ready to serve, place in sherbet glasses and put 
candied cherries on top. 

Strawbeny Parfait 

Rinse, drain, and press through a sieve enough strawber- 
ries to make two thirds of a cup of pulp. Boil one cup of 
sugar with a half cup of water without stirring until the 
syrup spins a short thread when dropped from a fork. 
Potir the mixture slowly over the stiffly beaten whites of 
two eggs and continue to beat until it is cold. As it begins 
to thicken add the fruit pulp, a little at a time. Whip 
one pint of heavy cream and lightly stir it into the mix- 
ture, then put all into the freezer, first removing the pad- 
dle; cover, pack in ice and salt for three hours to ripen. 
Serve in parfait glasses with a tablespoon of whipped cream 
on top and a ripe strawberry in the center. 

Apricot Parfait 

For the apricot parfait canned fruit will do if the ripe 
fruit is not seasonable. Dissolve one ounce of powdered 
gelatine in half a cup of hot water; add one cup of fruit 
pulp put through a sieve, one tablespoon of lemon juice, half 
a cup of chopped almonds, and one cup of sugar. Then beat 
for a few minutes and fold in two cups of whipped cream 
that has been well chilled. Fill fancy paper cases or par- 
fait glasses; dust over the top a little powdered macaroon 
and place one red cherry or ripe strawberry on top. 

Cafe Parfait 

Pour one pint of boiling water over eight tablespoons 
of ground coffee. Let it stand for ten minutes, then add 
three quarters of a cup of sugar and one half pint of warm 
milk. When cool strain and add one half pint of heavy 
cream and freeze. Fill parfait glasses, adding a tablespoon 



494 Home-made Ice Creams 

of whipped cream to the top of each, and garnish with a 
fresh strawberry. 

Matron Frappe 

Rub two cups of preserved marrons through a sieve, add a 
pint of cream and a cup of the marron syrup to the pulp, 
and half a wineglass of Anisette, then freeze until nearly 
hard. When ready to serve fill frapp6 glasses, placing a 
tablespoon of whipped cream on the top of each glass with 
a maraschino cherry on top. Serve macaroons or Venetian 
zwieback with the frappe. 

Orange Parfait 

Dissolve half an ounce of powdered gelatine in one 
half cup of hot water and add one cup of sugar and two 
cups of whipped cream. Stir until it begins to thicken, 
then add one tablespoon of orange juice and one glass 
of orange marmalade. Beat all together, then put in one 
large or two small molds and freeze. 

Lemon Ice 

The juice of six lemons and one orange and the grate 
peel of one lemon, one pint of clarified sugar, half a pint of 
clear water; mix well and freeze. Be sure it is sweet enough 
as the sweetness freezes out some; if not add a little more 
of the sugar. Orange ice is made the same, but with six 
oranges and one lemon. 

Pineapple Ice 

The juice of a fine, ripe pineapple, juice of one lemon, 
half a pint of clear water, and a pint of clarified sugar; strain 
and freeze. This quantity is suflBcient for eight people. 

Cherry Ice 

Take three cups of ripe cherries and one quart of water. 
Cook gently until the cherries are soft; then strain, thicken 



Home-made Ice Creams 495 

with a little cornstarch to the consistency of honey, add two 
cups of sugar, stir until it is all smooth, then strain into the 
freezer. A little red coloring added improves the appear- 
ance. 

Strawberry Ice 

Stew three quarts of strawberries in a half pint of water 
over a slow fire, strain the juice, adding a pint of clarified 
sugar, a wineglass of sherry; mix well and freeze. 

Orange Ice 

The juice of six ripe oranges, the juice of one lemon, one 
quart of water, and one pound of sugar. Mix thoroughly 
and strain, add one gill of rich, sweet cream, and freeze 
instantly. 

Raspberry Ice 

Squeeze enough fresh, ripe raspberries through a jelly 
bag to give three pints of juice, add a pound of pulverized 
sugar, place in the freezer and freeze. Another way is to 
heat four quarts of the berries, adding four pints of sugar 
and a pint of water. When hot and nearly at the boiling 
point, add a tablespoon and a half of gelatine dissolved in a 
little cold water; when at the boUing point, strain, and when 
cold, freeze. 

Grape Ice 

One pint of grape juice, the juice of four lemons, the juice 
of one orange, one pint of sugar, and a pint of water. Heat 
and mix all together; then add one tablespoon of cornstarch 
dissolved in a little water. Let come to boiling point and 
when slightly thickened strain into the freezer and freeze. 

Ginger Water Ice 

To one quart of lemon water ice add six ounces of pre- 
served ginger, chopped as fine as possible, and a tablespoon 
of ginger syrup; mix well and freeze. 



496 Home-made Ice Creams 

Frozen Fruit Juice 

A good way to use up any syrup left from preserv- 
ing, is to freeze it. Dissolve one teaspoon of powdered 
gelatine in a little hot water, add to it two ounces of sugar, 
and when cool, two cups of the fruit syrup. Beat very 
stiff the whites of two eggs, fold them in, and freeze. 

MOUSSES 

A general recipe for the making of mousse is here given. 
One cup of any of the dried fruits, after they have been 
stewed and put through a purfe sieve, may be added to 
make the mousse, either peach, apricot, or apple, or any 
chosen kind. 

Dissolve one teaspoon of gelatine in two tablespoons of 
hot water, add to it when thoroughly dissolved a half cup of 
boiling milk, next add one cup of any fruit pulp desired, 
three tablespoons of orange juice, and fold in two cups of 
whipped cream. Put the mixture into a chilled mold and 
pack the mold in salt and ice for four hours. 

Honey Mousse 

Beat the yolks of four eggs lightly and then add to them 
gradually half a cup of strained honey, and heat slowly 
until thick, stirring constantly. Remove from the fire, and 
when cool add the beaten whites of the eggs, then add one 
pint of whipped cream; blend all together, put into the 
freezer, and when thoroughly chilled open and add a cupful 
of rum. Close, and pack in salt and ice until ready for 
use. When serving, add a cordial glass of apricot brandy 
to each portion. Macaroons or silver cake are best with 
the mousse. 

Chestnut Mousse 

Take one pound of French chestnuts, peel, blanch, and put 
them to boil in a small quantity of water ; when very soft put 
them through a piur^e sieve and add to them six ounces of 



Home-made Ice Creams 497 

sugar flavored with a teaspoon of vanilla, and beat until 
quite smooth. Add one cup of sweetened whipped cream 
and pour the mixture into a chilled mold. Solder on the 
cover with flour and water paste to make sure no salt gets 
in, then bury the mold in the freezer, and let it remain 
there for one hour. When ready to serve, dip the mold in 
hot water, wipe it carefully; then turn the mousse out onto a 
napkin, folded crown shape, and send at once to the table. 

Maple Mousse 

Dissolve one teaspoon of powdered gelatine in four table- 
spoons of hot water ; add the beaten yolks of six eggs and one 
large cup of maple syrup. Stir over the fire until the mix- 
ture thickens, but do not allow it to boil. Pour it into a 
bowl and beat until cool. When cool, fold in one pint of 
whipped cream that has been well drained. Put the mix- 
ture into individual molds or one large mold, and pack for 
five hours. When ready to serve, unmold and dust over 
the top one cup of blanched powdered sweet almonds. • 
Serve with silver or angel cake. 

Strawberry Mousse 

Wash, hull, and halve one box of ripe, firm strawberries, 
sprinkle with a cup of sugar, and let stand one hour. Dis- 
solve one tablespoon of gelatine in two tablespoons of cold 
water, then add three of hot water; mash the berries and 
run them through a fine sieve and then add the gelatine; set 
in a pan of ice water and stir until it begins to thicken, then 
fold in one quart of whipped cream, put in the freezer, and 
pack in salt and ice for five hours. 

Pineapple Mousse 

Add to two cups of sugar, one and one half cups of water, 
and one and one half tablespoons of cornstarch. Mix well 
and boil until clear. Add one quart of rich preserved pine- 

32 



49^ Home-made Ice Creams 

apple or a large ripe fresh one to the juice of two lemons, 
enough clear water to make two full quarts, and the stiffly 
beaten whites of two eggs. Put the mixture in a mold and 
pack. 



HOME-MADE CANDIES 

Simple recipes insure the most successful results and 
offer fewer complications to the inexperienced. Failures 
are too expensive to repeat often. For real success in candy 
making one needs a few small utensils, which should be kept 
solely for candy use. A clean, good iron frying pan, 
medium sized, for sugar browning, wooden and enamel 
spoons, white enamel dishes for mixing, limber spatula knife, 
shallow candy pans of three sizes, a spool of copper wire, a 
round bottomed, smooth iron pot, one or two enamel sauce- 
pans, and a pair of shears. 

For the old-fashioned candy pull the iron pothook, which 
screws against the wall shoulder high, will be found a great 
saving of time and burned fingers. Canvas gloves also 
enable one to handle the hot mass and are easily laundered. 
A long, sharp knife of uniform thickness and limber blade 
is best for cutting fudge or other candies in different 
shapes. The best butter, confectioner's sugar, the best 
nuts, and the best quality of flavorings, pure molasses, finest 
clover honey, pure almond paste, rich sweet milk, and the 
highest grade of chocolate must be used in the different 
recipes to obtain perfection in candy making. 

Children like to make candy and it is well to have at hand 
simple and inexpensive recipes. 

Holiday Panocha 

Four cups of brown sugar, one scant cup of milk; let boil 
seven minutes; add one teaspoon of vanilla, a tablespoon of 
butter, and two cups of English walnuts. Whip to a cream 
and pour it Into a lightly buttered pan to cool. 

499 



500 Home-made Candies 

Butter Scotch 

Take one cup of molasses, one cup of white sugar, a half 
cup of butter, and a half cup of water; mix them and cook 
over a slow fire until a little is firm when dropped into cold 
water. When done stir in a half teaspoon of bicarbonate of 
soda, and pour into well buttered shallow candy pans to 
cool. 

Hickory Nut Candy 

Put one pound of sugar, one tablespoon of vegetable oil, 
and half a cup of water in a saucepan, over the fire, and stir 
until the sugar is dissolved. With a damp cloth wipe down 
the sides of the pan and boil gently, without stirring, until 
the syrup spins a heavy thread. Add one cup of hickory 
nut meats, a teaspoon of vanilla flavoring, and turn into a 
shallow baking pan to cool. When cool, cut into squares. 

Molasses Candy to Pull 

One cup of molasses, one cup of sugar; melt together and 
boil until a drop will harden in cold water (it must harden 
but not become brittle). Add a pinch of baking soda and a 
teaspoon of vinegar and turn out onto two shallow buttered 
pans. Lightly flour the hands and pull as soon as the candy 
can be handled. After pulling white, twist, and cut in one- 
inch pieces with scissors. 

Everton TofEee 

Put one pound of powdered sugar and one teacup of 
cold water into a saucepan; when the sugar is dissolved add 
a quarter of a pound of butter beaten to a cream. Keep 
stirring the mixture over the fire until it hardens when a 
little is dropped upon a buttered dish. Just before the 
toffee is done add a half teaspoon of lemon flavoring, and 
pour into a shallow buttered pan to cool, This is a popular 
English candy. 



Home-made Candies 501 

Peanut Candy 

Put one pound of sugar into an iron frying pan; heat the 
pan hot before putting in the sugar and stir vigorously until 
entirely melted. As soon as the sugar is melted, throw in 
three quarters of a pound of shelled and skinned peanuts. 
Stir all quickly a moment, then tiu:n into a buttered pan to 
cool. When slightly cool, mark off in squares. 

Pineapple Marshmallows 

Dissolve one half pound of gum arable in one pint of 
pineapple juice, strain, and add to it one half pound of 
sugar. Place in a saucepan and stir constantly over the 
fire until the syrup is the consistency of honey. Add 
gradually the whites of four well beaten eggs and stir the 
mixture until it becomes somewhat thin and does not adhere 
to the finger. Flavor with a little extra pineapple juice, 
if desired, then pour into a tin that has been slightly dusted 
with powdered starch. Sprinkle a little more starch over 
the top and as it cools mark off in squares. 

Honey Puffs 

Put into a saucepan one cup of cream, three cups of sugar, 
a half cup of honey (strained). When the cream and 
sugar have been boiled together until they thread from 
the spoon add the honey; cook until the syrup will make a 
soft ball when dropped into cold water. Remove from the 
fire, add the beaten white of one egg and a cup of chopped 
nut meats, and when the mixture is firm and creamy shape 
into balls. 

Popping Com in Oil 

Put one third cup of vegetable oil into a frying pan and, 
when it is hot, add almost enough unpopped corn to cover 
the bottom. Cover the pan securely and shake occasion- 
ally while the corn is popping. 



502 Home-made Candies 

Vinegar Candy 

Put into'Ja saucepan two cups of sugar, a half cup of 
water, a half cup of vinegar, and a small piece of butter. 
Boil until the candy brittles in cold water. Just before 
removing it from the stove add a cupful of nut meats; or if 
liked better the candy may be pulled and the nuts omitted. 

Fig Cream 

Three cups of sugar, one cup of cream, half a cup of 
strained honey, and the juice of one large lemon. Cook 
the sugar, cream, and honey to a soft consistency that forms 
p. firm, waxy ball when dropped in cold water. Cool the 
mixture, stirring constantly, and when it thickens add 
half a pound of chopped figs and the lemon juice. When 
too thick to pour spread in a buttered pan and cut into 
squares before it gets cold. 

Chocolate Cream Drops 

Take French cream and mold into cone-shaped forms 
with the fingers; then lay the cones on waxed paper or a 
marble slab until the next day to harden; or make them in 
the morning and leave until the afternoon. Melt some 
chocolate in a basin and place in another basin of boiling 
water. When melted and the creams are hard enough to 
handle take one at a time on a fork and drop into the melted 
chocolate, roll it until well covered, and then slip from the 
fork upon waxed paper and put aside to harden. 

Apple Paste 

Take a dozen apples, peel and core them, and put them 
into water, allowing them to remain till they are quite soft. 
Remove and rub them through a fine sieve with a wooden 
spoon. Weigh the pulp and put it in a preserving pan 
with the same weight of sugar. Boil for twenty minutes. 



Home-made Candies 503 

then pour it out thin on plates. When cool cut the paste 
into squares or any other shapes desired. When cut, allow 
it to dry thoroughly in a cool oven. 

Turkish Delight 

Soak two tablespoons of gelatine in one third cup of cold 
water. When dissolved, add one cup of granulated sugar. 
Boil twenty minutes, adding the juice of a half lemon and a 
half orange. Take from the fire, flavor with a teaspoon of 
extract of rose or strawberry, add a quarter cup chopped 
nuts, pour into a greased shallow pan; cool, cut in squares, 
and roll in pink sugar. 

Turkish Paste 

Boil five pounds of sugar and one quart of water until it 
reaches the thickness of cold honey. Pour in slowly ten 
ounces of wheat starch that has been blended in a little 
water, next add half an ounce, of cream of tartar and stir 
the mixture one way until it gets quite thick or until a drop 
will sustain itself on a plate. When done, pour the mixture 
onto a flat pan which has been sifted lightly with corn- 
starch. Just before removing from the fire add a cup 
of blanched and chopped almonds and a half cup of 
pistachio nuts. 

Baltimore Fudge 

Two pounds of granulated sugar, one pint of milk, a 
quarter pound of butter, half a cake unsweetened chocolate 
grated. Melt slowly to the boiling point, then boil from 
seven to ten minutes, trying on a cold plate just before 
removing from the fire. Add two teaspoons of good vanilla 
flavoring. When it sets on the cold plate remove at once 
from the fire or it wUl granulate. Pour into lightly but- 
tered pans and when cool enough cut into squares. 



504 Home-made Candies 

Cocoanut Fudge 

Into a clean granite saucepan put three cups of granu- 
lated sugar, one cup of milk, and a tablespoon of butter with 
the grated meat of one small cocoanut. Stir the mixture 
and allow it to boil up for one minute, then remove from the 
fire and beat until it begins to grain; turn into lightly but- 
tered pans and allow it to cool. Before removing it from the 
fire drop a little into cold water and stop its boiling when 
the cold water turns it into a soft ball. It should be cut in 
the pan before it gets too firmly set. 

Maple Fudge 

One pound maple sugar and one cup milk. Bring to a 
boil and add a tablespoon of butter. Cook until it becomes 
brittle when tested in cold water. Remove from the fire, 
stir vigorously until it begins to granulate around the 
edge of the kettle, and then pour into a buttered pan. 

Nut Creams 

Chop almonds, hickory nuts, butternuts, or English wall- 
nuts quite fine. Make the French cream, and before 
adding all the sugar and while the cream is still quite soft 
stir into it the nuts and theh form into balls, bars, or 
squares. Three or four kinds of nuts may be mixed together. 

Almond Rolls 

One half pound of almond paste, one pound of very fine 
powdered sugar, two tablespoons of lemon juice, the white of 
one unbeaten egg; knead into the paste gradually the sugar, 
lemon juice, and egg; form the mixture into cylinders, roll 
them into melted chocolate, and sprinkle with finely pow- 
dered almonds; place in a pan in a slow drying oven until 
slightly hardened. 



Honae-made Candies 5^5 

Cream Chocolate 

Two pounds of granulated sugar, a cup of sweet cream, a 
tablespoon of butter, and a half cake of chocolate, grated. 
Melt the ingredients together in a smooth iron pot and let 
boil evenly eight to ten minutes, testing on a cold plate very 
often. 

When done pour in a lightly buttered shallow pan and 
set. While it is cooling mark off into squares. If wrapped 
in waxed paper it will not dry out. Before moving from 
the fire add a teaspoon of good vanilla flavoring, as it 
improves the taste. 

Do not boU it too long or it will become like fudge. 
Using cream instead of milk makes it morfe like that which 
is imported. 

A Recipe Popular in 1770 

To make "March-pane" — ^take a pound of Jordan 
almonds, blanch and beat them in a marble mortar very 
fine; then put to them three quarters of a pound of double 
refined sugar, and beat them with a few drops of orange- 
fiower water; beat all together till 'tis a very good paste, 
then roll it into what shape you please. 

French Fondant or French Cream 

Two cups of sugar, one cup of water. Stir the sugar and 
water together until mixed; do not stir after it has come 
to the boUing point, stir only enough to prevent sticking 
at the bottom; boil until a .soft ball forms when dropped 
into cold water; remove from the fire and place saucepan in 
a pan of cold water. Allow the mixture to stand until it is 
cool; add half a teaspoon of vanilla; then beat until it forms 
a white mass which leaves the edge of the pan; knead it well 
until it is perfectly smooth and no hard grains remain. 

With a very little practice expert molding may easily be 
accomplished. A marble slab is best to use in kneading 



5o6 Home-made Candies 

and molding fondant. The slab is cool and marble is a bet- 
ter molding surface than wood. 

Wintergreen Bonbons 

Prepare the fondant as directed. Flavor with essence of 
wintergreen. Color a delicate pink or a very delicate green. 
Form into oblong bonbons by rolling a small round ball and 
then flattening it with the palm of the hand. 

Candied Strawberries 

Berries and sugar in the proportion of pound to pound. 
Wash berries carefully, a few at a time, before capping. 
Put berries and sugar together into a kettle on the back 
of the stove. Let stand until the extracted juice covers the 
fruit; then put on the fire and cook exactly fifteen minutes 
after it begins to boil. Turn into a crock and let stand over- 
night. Put in glass jars and keep in a dark closet. 

Holiday Pralines 

The ordinary nut sweets are so rich that their free use is 
prohibitive, but the pralines are so simple that they may be 
eaten without fear of illness. 

Use the best quality of nuts and make the dainty in two 
sizes. Hickory nuts cracked and halved, filberts, blanched 
and dried, and pecans in halves should be used for the 
small pralines. Blanch Brazil nuts and princess nuts and 
halve English walnuts for the larger pralines. 

Take one cup of sugar, three quarters of a cup of water, 
and boil until it threads from the spoon and is almost 
ready to sugar; turn the nuts in quickly and stir rapidly 
while it sugars. Throw them into a large flour sieve, sift 
off the loose sugar, separating them if they have stuck 
together while they cool. When cold, pack them in wax 
paper lined boxes until ready to use. 



Home-made Candies 5^7 

Pistachio Pralines 

Blanch one pound of pistachio nuts. Dissolve one pound 
of sugar in half a cup of water, let it boil until it forms a little 
ball when dropped into cold water; add the nuts and stir 
quickly until they have taken up all the sugar, and continue 
stirring until the sugar syrup or caramel has granulated 
about them. Then throw them onto a sieve, qprinkle them 
lightly with a little orange or rose flavoring, and shake ofiE 
all the loose sugar. 



BEVERAGES 
Coffee 

Its making and serving and its effect upon the health 
are always subjects of interest to housekeepers. One 
may get some idea of the number of ways of making it from 
the numerous percolators and coffee pots on the market, for 
each family seems to have its own particular method, 
which appears to require a special utensil. 

Though excellent brands of coffee are to be had many 
people still prefer to roast their own, and here is a hint which 
may be of service. After obtaining the brand of green 
coffee that is best liked add to each three pounds of it 
before roasting a piece of butter the size of a walnut and a 
dessertspoon of powdered sugar. The addition of the butter 
and sugar develops the flavor and aroma of the berry. 

The usual rule in making coffee is to allow one tablespoon 
of coffee (ground) to each cup of water; whether the water 
is cold or boiling is a matter decided by the method each 
housekeeper uses. 

Cafe au Lait 

Make one quart of very strong coffee; strain and add one 
pint of hot milk and a half pint of cream and a half pint of 
whipped cream and sugar to taste. This may be served hot 
for breakfast or in the afternoon chilled for those who prefer 
it to tea. 

Cafe Noir 

Make a quart of strong coffee and boil two cloves with it. 
In each after-dinner cup place one limip of sugar and one 

508 



Beverages 509 

teaspoon of apricot brandy, plain brandy, or Anisette 
cordial. 

Tea 

To make the best tea the water must be jtimping and 
boiling when the tea is added, and be at once removed from 
the fire when the tea is added, covered closely, and allowed 
to infuse for three to five. minutes. Never reheat tea. If 
it is to stand at all, during the service of a meal or for any 
other reason, strain it at once, after the infusing period, into 
a clean, hot pot. A heaping tablespoon of tea to a quart of 
boiling water is the usual recipe. 

Chocolate and Cocoa 

In making chocolate allow a half ounce of chocolate to 
every half pint of water or milk. This applies also to the 
individual cakes that come, to use one to a cup, or a half 
tablespoon of grated chocolate to a cup. It should be put 
into the hot liquid, brought to the boiling point, and sweet- 
ened with two or three teaspoons of sugar according to 
taste. Whipped cream may be added to make the choco- 
late richer. 

In making cocoa allow two tablespoons of cocoa to one 
quart of milk. Mix the cocoa smooth with a little boiling 
water, then add it to the hot milk with a half cup of sugar. 
Boil up once, strain, and serve. If the cocoa is for children 
and not wanted quite as rich, it may be made of half milk 
and half water. 

Any of the foregoing four drinks may be served iced. 

COCKTAILS 

The mixing of drinks is sometimes rather problematical in 
households where it is not of daily occurrence and recipes 
are not at hand to help one out in emergency. So here are 
just a few cocktail secrets and just a few wine cup hints. 



5IO Beverages 

The home equipment for drink mixing includes an ice 
shaver, cocktail shaker, lemon squeezer, strainer, long 
handled spoon and toddy stick, sharp knives, a jigger for 
measuring, and proper glasses. A cracked ice bowl with 
tiny silver tongs is always on the tray. 

Abemarle Bracer 

Into a whiskey glass pour one half jigger of picon bitters, 
a half jigger of brandy, a half jigger of green cr^me de 
menthe, a dash of absinthe, and a tablespoon of shaved ice. 
Shake, strain, and serve. 

Bronz Cocktail 

One dash orange bitters, one third jigger of Italian ver- 
mouth, one third jigger of French vermouth, and one third 
jigger of Gordon gin. Frapp6 and strain into cocktail 
glass, squeeze a piece of orange peel on top and droq it into 
the glass. 

Coffee Cocktail 

Take a pony of port wine, a pony of brandy, a teaspoon of 
powdered sugar, and one fresh egg, mix in tvmibler half filled 
with shaved ice, then strain into cocktail glass and grate a 
little nutmeg over the top. 

American Beauty 

Into the mixer half filled with shaved ice put two dashes 
of grenadine syrup, one third jigger of Italian vermouth, 
and two thirds jigger of Tom gin. Stir well and strain into 
cocktail glass with a red cherry in the bottom. 

Chanticleer 

Chanticleer, a most popular cocktail, is made of one 
half Gordon gin, one fourth French vermouth, one fourth 
Italian vermouth, and a dash of orange bitters. Fotu: 



Beverages 51 1 

bruised mint leaves, one clove, and a tiny strip of lemon peel 
are added while it is being shaken to perfectly blend it; then 
it is strained into a chilled glass and served. 

Absinthe Cocktail 

Put a cup of cracked ice in the shaker with three or four 
dashes of syrup, one dash of angostura bitters, one dash 
Anisette, one quarter wineglass of seltzer, three quarters 
wineglass of absinthe. Shake well until ahnost frozen, strain 
into cocktail glass, squeeze a bit of lemon peel on top, and 
serve. 

Swan Cocktail 

One half jigger of gin, one quarter jigger of French ver- 
mouth, one quarter jigger of Italian vermouth, juice of one 
lime, frapp6, and serve; put an olive in the glass. 

Orange Blossom 

Turn over the ice in the shaker one third jigger of orange 
juice, two thirds of jigger of Gordon gin, dash of orange 
bitters, shake well, strain into cocktail glass, drop in each 
glass one marron. 

Champagne Cocktail 

Two slices of orange, one slice of diced pineapple, one 
lump of sugar, two dashes of angostura bitters, a jigger of 
Monopole champagne. Shake well and turn into the glass, 
adding two fresh strawberries. 

Ruby Cocktail 

One third jigger Italian vermouth, two thirds jigger of 
sloe gin, frapp^ and strain into cocktail glass, adding one 
cr^me de menthe cherry. 



512 Beverages 

Moonlight Cocktail 

One third jigger dubonnet bitters, one third each of 
French vermouth and Gordon gin, frapp6 and strain into 
glass with one white grape. 

Zaza Cocktail 

One half jigger each of Gordon gin and dubonnet bitters, 
frapp^ and strain into cocktail glass with red cherry in the 
bottom. 

Clover Club 

The juice of half a lemon, a sixth jigger of grenadine, 
one jiggdr of gin, and the white of an egg. Shake with 
shaved ice, then strain into a claret glass and put a clover 
mint on top of each. 

Martini 

Into a half tumbler of shaved ice put a dash of orange 
bitters, a jigger each of vermouth and old Tom gin, arid a 
few drops of lemon juice; shake well and strain into glass. 

Manhattan 

Into a half tumbler of shaved ice put two dashes of bitters, 
two thirds jigger of whiskey, and one third jigger of Italian 
vermouth. Shake well and strain into glass, putting a 
squeezing of lemon peel on top. 

Rose Cocktail 

Rose cocktails are made of golden gin and vermouth, 
with a teaspoon of rose water, and petals of roses scattered 
on the top. 



Beverages 513 

FRUIT COCKTAILS 

Cherry CocktaU 

"Wash, stone, and halve ripe, firm ox-heart cherries, drain, 
and chill. Spice, sweeten, and chill the juice, and pour over 
the fruit when ready to serve. 

Strawberry Cocktail 

Wash, hull, and halve firm ripe cherries, chill the fruit, and 
when ready to serve add enough spiced strawberry sjmip to 
moisten the fruit and serve with a firm stick of fresh cinna- 
mon upon which the fruit is speared. 

Grapefruit Cocktail 

Remove the fruit carefully from the bitter skin and place 
in a bowl on ice until needed. Then add juice of one lemon, 
a wineglass of sherry, four teaspoons of powdered sugar, 
and a dash of nutmeg. Place in the glasses and garnish 
with red cherries. 

Pineapple Cocktail 

The cocktails are made by cutting three or four balls of 
pineapple with a cutter for each glass, roll them in powdered 
sugar and a little apricot brandy. When ready to serve pour 
over them the cocktail of vermouth and golden gin. 

Alligator Pear Cocktail 

Pare and seed one alligator pear, then dice it. Add to it a 
teaspoon of ketchup, six drops of tabasco, one teaspoon each 
of Worcestershire sauce and chutney syrup, and juice of a 
lemon. Chill and serve in cocktail glasses. 
33 



514 Beverages 

WINE CUPS 
Champagne Cup 

Two ponies of cognac, two of white curagoa, two of mar- 
aschino, the juice of two lemons, one bottle club soda, 
and one quart of champagne; berries in season and one strip 
of cucumber rind. Sweeten to taste, and if served at once 
a small lump of ice will do no harm. A few sprigs of mint 
may be added by way of decoration. 

Claret Cup 

Juice of two lemons and one orange; two ponies of bene- 
dictine and two of curagoa, a bottle of claret, and one of 
apoUinaris water. Sweeten to taste; any small fruits on 
hand can be dropped in as cut strawberries, slices of banana, 
cherries, raspberries, or bits of pineapple. 

Moselle Cup 

Juice of half a pineapple, three lemons and two oranges; 
a pony of apricot brandy, one of brandy, a stick of cinna- 
mon, and three cloves; one bottle of sparkling moselle, one 
of imported ginger ale. Add diced pineapple, red cherries, 
and a few sprays of mint. Chill and serve. 

Sauteme cup is made in the same way as the champagne, 
substituting the sauterne for champagne. Rhine wine cup 
is also made the same way. 

Rose Cup 

Juice of six oranges, eight lemons, one small pineapple, 
pint of juicy cherries, and juice of one box of strawberries. 
When all the juice is squeezed strain carefully through a 
cheesecloth, wet with cold water, then add a glass of apricot 
brandy and a pound of sugar that has been melted in a cup 
of clear boiling water and a gill of rose water. Let stand and 
mellow, and when ready to use add a bottle of sparkling 



Beverages 515 

moselle and a bottle of apollinaris water and the ice. Over 
the top slice thinly a few large strawberries and scatter a 
few rose petals. 

MuUed Cider 

To two quarts of cider add one nutmeg crushed, not 
grated, fine; six whole cloves, and three sticks of cinnamon. 
Add half a cup of light brown sugar. Simmer gently, 
never allowing it to boil. Keep it lightly covered and cook 
fifteen minutes. Serve steaming hot. 

Hot Spiced Cider 

This may be used to carry out the old wassail bowl at 
holiday time if desired. Take three quarts of good cider and 
put it into a clean saucepan, adding a gill of sugar syrup 
flavored with vanilla, a small spice bag, and a strip of lemon 
peel. Let come to boiling point, let stand at that heat for 
fifteen minutes, then turn into the punch bowl and put over 
the top a few baked apples that have been cored and baked 
with cinnamon and sugar. Serve smoking hot. 

Mulled Wine 

Father Knickerbocker's Christmas beverage was mulled 
wine in the early days when old New York was young, 
and it was made in this way. Take one pint of water, one 
pound of sugar, six cloves, a half stick of cinnamon, a salt- 
spoon of allspice, a half grated nutmeg, and the grated rind 
of a lemon. Let come to boiling point and stir until all 
ingredients are thoroughly blended, then add a quart of fine 
old port wine and let all come to boiling point again; then 
strain into grog glasses or mugs, putting a cinnamon stick in 
each by way of a toddy stick. 

Blackberry Cordial 

To two quarts of blackberry juice squeezed cold add four 
pounds of sugar, boil ten minutes, and skim. Then add a 



5i6 Beverages 

spice bag and one quart of good brandy, boil ten minutes 
and cool, then bottle and seal. 

PUNCHES 

The fault often found with American drinks is that they 
are served too cold, so that their delicacy of flavor is lost; 
the proper way to do is to have all of the ingredients chilled 
before mixing together, then place the bowl containing the 
punch in a bowl of cracked ice, which keeps it chilled but 
there is no cracked ice in the punch to dilute it and destroy 
its flavor. 

Christmas Punch 

Juice of six oranges, six lemons, two grapefruit, one grated 
pineapple, two cups of sugar melted in one cup of hot water 
then cooled, one cup of strong Ceylon tea; when all is chilled 
add four quarts of water turned over a block of ice in the 
punch bowl. Drain a small bottle of maraschino cherries, 
and float them on top with a few candied mint leaves. 

Rtun Punch 

One quart Jamaica nmi, two quarts of Medford, one 
quart brandy, a half pint of sherry, one gill each of curagoa 
and maraschino, a pint of lemon juice, a half pound of sugar, 
and a pot of tea. Add sliced lemons, or oranges, pine- 
apples, and pitted cherries. Add two quarts of apoUinaris 
and two of ginger ale. Pour over a lump of ice in the punch 
bowl. 

Philadelphia Fish House Punch 

Three fourths of a pound of white sugar dissolved in 
water; one third of a pint of lemon juice; one half pint 
cognac, one fourth pint each of Jamaica rum and peach 
brandy, and one quart of apoUinaris water. Turn into the 
punch bowl over a block of ice. 



Beverages 517 

Ginger Punch 

To the juice of twelve lemons add half a small bottle each 
of green and red maraschino cherries, three sliced oranges 
and the juice of one small pineapple, and a quart of filtered 
water and sweeten to taste. Set away to chill and mellow. 
When ready to serve add ice and six bottles of ginger ale. 

Pumpkin Punch for Thanksgiving 

Boil and strain one small ptunpkin, add one pint of sugar 
and one pint of molasses, one pint of apricot brandy, grating 
of nutmeg, juice of three lemons and three oranges. Let 
stand three hours, strain, add ice and one pint bottle of 
champagne and two quarts of vichy. Serve in a hollow 
pumpkin shell pointed at the top. 

Gnome Ptmch 

One pint of Catawba wine and a small spice bag, juice 
and rind of one lemon, a cup of sugar, and grating of nutmeg ; 
heat to boiling point, let stand and cool, strain, and add one 
pint of ginger ale and two bottles of vichy, ice, and a bottle 
of cocktail chestnuts. Serve in punch glasses. 

Hongkong Cooler 

Pour one quart of boiling water over three tablespoons of 
Ceylon tea; let steep five minutes; strain and cool; while 
cooling add four tablespoons sugar, three slices lemon, two 
cloves, and four maraschino cherries. When ready to 
serve pour in tall glasses half full of shaved ice, adding a 
dash of Jamaica rum to each glass. Place a spray of mint 
on top of each glass. 

Grape Cooler 

Remove the segments from a large firm grapefruit, 
placing them in a small enamel strainer to drain; chill one 



51 8 Beverages 

quart bottle of grape juice. Place the fruit on cracked 
ice in the punch bowl, add sugar to taste, and add one bottle 
of sparkling water. 

Fruit Punch 

Juice of three lemons and three oranges, one quart of pine- 
apple juice, two lemons and two oranges thinly sliced, one 
box of ripe strawberries cut in half, one pound of sugar; mix 
ingredients, ttirn over cracked ice in the punch bowl, and 
add one quart of apoUinaris water. 

Pineapple Punch 

Add to the juice of three lemons and a pound of sugar two 
quart bottles of pineapple juice, two slices fresh pineapple 
diced, turn over cracked ice in the punch bowl, and add just 
before serving two bottles of imported ginger ale. 

Fisherman's Punch 

Grate one pineapple and add one pound of powdered 
sugar, juice of three lemons, grated peel of one, and a small 
jar of preserved ginger. Turn in the syrup and chop the 
ginger up very fine. When ready to serve add three bottles 
of ginger ale, cracked ice, and a large bottle of champagne. 

Hot Chocolate Punch 

Make a quart of rich hot chocolate, add one small cup of 
Jamaica rum, one pint of whipped cream, and one tablespoon 
of syrup of ginger and serve hot. 

Mint Julep 

Melt one cup of sugar in one cup of boiling water; let 
cool; bruise three or four sprigs of mint and throw into the 
mixture; as it cools half fill punch glasses with shaved ice, 
add one tablespoon of the sjmip to each glass, put three or 
four sprigs of mint in the glass, first dipping it in cold water 



Beverages 5^9 

and dusting it with powdered sugar ; fill the glass with Mount 
Vernon whiskey. 

Cherry Flip 

Stone and squeeze the juice from two quarts of ripe 
cherries, throw in half a cup of stoned cherries. Melt 
a pound of sugar in a pint of boiling water; as it simmers for 
three minutes add two slices of lemon four cloves, and a tiny 
piece of ginger root; strain and cool; add to the cherry juice 
and tvun into the punch bowl over cracked ice. When 
ready to serve add a pint jar of Gordon and Dilworth's 
Puncheezy. 

Honey Posset 

Take one pint of strained honey, the juice of twenty-four, 
lemons, grated peel of one, and a tumbler of rum, mix well, 
and when ready to serve to each half glass of the mixture add 
a half glass of vichy ; chill before mixing the ingredients but 
do not ice the drink. A spray of fresh mint washed then 
dusted with powdered sugar stuck in each glass makes it 
attractive in appearance. 

Harvest Punch 

One cup of molasses, half cup of sugar, two tablespoons of 
ginger syrup, one quart of milk, a little grated lemon peel; 
mix well, then add a pint of cream, grate a little nutmeg over 
the top, serve chilled but not iced. This is a refreshing and 
nourishing drink as well. 

Christmas Eggnog 

The nog may be made a strictly temperance drink by add- 
ing a tablespoon of vanilla instead of the liquor. Put in a 
bowl the yolks of one dozen fresh eggs and the stifHy beaten 
whites of two of the eggs, beat until very light, then add a 
cup and a half of white granulated sugar, and half a grated 



520 Beverages 

nutmeg. Beat and add slowly a pint of rich milk, four more 
egg whites beaten stiff, three quarters of a tumbler of Jamaica 
rum, and a pint of rich cream. Keep stirring all the time 
and then add a pint more milk. Beat the rest of the egg 
whites stiff and add to them three teaspoons of powdered su- 
gar, a teaspoon of apricot cordial, and a dusting of nutmeg; 
then drop by spoonfuls on top of the nog. Set the bowl in 
another filled with cracked ice to keep it chilled, but do not 
ice the nog. This makes the wassail bowl always served 
at New Year's and on Twelfth Night. This is sufficient 
to serve ten people once. 

PORCH DRINKS 

With a generous amount of company, and perhaps a num- 
ber of young people fresh from the tennis field or golf links, 
every afternoon just at tea time who prefer something cool- 
ing rather than the usual cup of tea any of the following re- 
cipes may be used and the drinks temptingly served with 
dainty wafers, sandwiches, or cake, and they will prove most 
acceptable. 

The first requisites needed for successftil drink mixing 
are plenty of ice, clear or filtered water, vichy, ginger ale, 
and carbonized waters. Next, good, juicy lemons and as 
much other fresh fruit as the market affords. 

The fruit waters, as they are called, are perhaps more 
English than American drinks, but are most refreshing 
when properly made. For strawberry water proceed in the 
following way: — Wash and crush one quart of fresh ripe 
strawberries with one pound of sugar, let them stand several 
hours, then strain carefully and add one pint of clear water. 
Chill and serve with cracked ice and vichy. The orange 
and the pineapple are made in the same way, only adding a 
little lemon juice or orange flower water if the flavor is 
liked. 

Next the syrups are in order and make a line of richer 
drinks. The flavors are ginger, rose, mint, coffee, raspberry, 



Beverages 521 

mulberry, clove, pink, violet, and chocolate. To one and all 
these vichy, cracked ice, and either whipped cream or ice 
cream may be added. Then there is the iced laouillon with a 
dash of whipped cream, iced chicken or clam broth, which 
also belong to the list of summer drinks. 

Welsh Nectar 

This drink has to be made a week ahead of the time it is 
wanted, so that the two gallons which the recipe calls for 
may become just right for bottling for use. Pare thinly 
eight lemons and drop the peel into eight quarts of boiling 
water, then let stand and cool; when cool add one pound of 
stoned and chopped large raisins, two pounds of sugar, the 
juice of the lemons, and three cloves. Let it stand for five 
days in a cool place carefully covered, stirring it occasion- 
ally, then strain through cheesecloth, bottle in dean bottles, 
cork, and put on ice to chill. 

Temperance Horse's Neck 

Peel a thin skinned lemon in one long strip and arrange 
it in the glass so that one end hangs over. Put into the 
shaker with the cracked ice the juice of the lemon, a heaping 
tablespoon of sugar, juice of half a grapefruit, and a dash of 
orange bitters. When shaken and chilled ttim into the 
glass with the peel and fill it with ginger ale; a little shaved 
ice may be added if one wants the drink very cold. 

Hoxae-made Soda Water 

At a children's party serve this drink, which fizzes. Boil 
together in a granite saucepan (not metal) two pounds of 
sugar, three pints of hot water, and two ounces of tartaric 
acid for five minutes. Put away to cool and then stir in the 
well beaten whites of three eggs and one ounce of flavoring, 
as vanilla. or sarsaparilla. When ready to use put one 



522 Beverages 

tablespoon of the syrup into a half glass of water, add a scant 
quarter teaspoon of baking soda, and beat to create a foam. 

Almond Milk 

Blanch two ounces of Jordan almonds and half an ounce 
of bitter almonds and pound them in a mortar, adding a 
little at a time a tablespoon of orange flower water, and two 
tablespoons of sugar. When the mixture is smooth and 
creamy, add one pint of milk, and let stand. Drain before 
using. 

Raspbeny Vinegar Syrap 

One pint of raspberry juice, four pints of sugar, two pints 
of cider vinegar, and boil gently for fifteen minutes. Care- 
fully strain and cool, and it is ready for use. Or it may be 
made in the following way: — Let the fruit stand in the vine- 
gar several days, then filter it, add the sugar, and heat to 
boiling point, strain again, then cool, and it is ready for 
use, and is more apt to retain its fine flavor. 

Mead 

Pour over one and a half pints of sugar and a half pint of 
molasses, three pints of boiling water; stir and let stand 
until lukewarm, then add two ounces of tartaric acid and 
an ounce of essence of sassafras. When thoroughly cold, 
bottle. When desired for use, put a tablespoon of the mead 
in a tumbler and fill the glass with any good carbonated 
water. 

Apricot Flip 

Pare, stone and stew two pounds of ripe apricots; sweeten 
them until quite rich and chill thoroughly; when ready to 
serve add two bottles of ginger ale, one of apoUinaris, and 
a bunch of mint leaves. 



Beverages 523 

Milk Snap 

To each tumbler of chilled rich milk add a quarter of a 
tumbler of ginger sjmip and the beaten white of one fresh 
egg. Shake in a shaker and add a dash of grated lemon peel 
just before serving. 

Pineapple Pilot 

Grate one ripe, fresh pineapple; cover with one cup of 
granulated sugar and let stand on ice; when ready to serve 
add the juice of two lemons, a bottle of ginger ale, and a pint 
of apoUinaris water. 

Lemonade 

Juice of eighteen lemons, grated peel of two, juice of six 
oranges and two grapefruit; put two pounds of sugar in a 
saucepan with one quart of water ; when it is melted let it 
boil for two minutes, skim it, then remove from the fire and 
cool it and add it to the fruit jtiice. Set away to chill ; when 
it is time to serve it strain half into the punch bowl and 
add water, mix well and set the bowl into the larger re- 
ceptacle of cracked ice. When the second half is needed 
strain it into the bowl and add charged water, or one 
quart of charged water and two bottles of imported ginger 
ale. Instead of using the punch bowl of course the drink 
may be shaken with cracked ice in shaker, then turned into 
the glasses. 

Glorified Lemonade 

An ordinary lemonade will be much more attractive 
if a little juice of the currant or raspberry is added, sufficient 
to make the liquid pinky. Then add a few fresh pineapple 
sticks and a thinly sliced banana. Ice and serve. 



524 Beverages 

Lemonade 

Rind and juice of three lemons, two ounces loaf sugar, 
one quart of boiling water. Peel lemons very thin, and put 
in a jug with the sugar, pour over the boiling water and let 
cool, strain, and add water to strained juice when cold. 



PRESERVING AND PICKLING 

There seems to be a bit of haziness in most minds as to 
the correct way of using the words "conserve" and "pre- 
serve. " To clear the matter up once for all the explanation 
of each word will show the difference. In France, the word 
conserve is applied to any food, fruit, vegetable, meat, game, 
fish, pickles, sweetmeats, or anything that is put up and 
sealed in tin, glass, or any other carrier to keep over the 
winter months or as much longer as is required. In America 
the term is used for any unusual sweetmeat when one is 
uncertain as to in just which class it belongs. This is an 
incorrect use of the word, for what usually is called a con- 
serve is a pound-for-pound preserve, which, though usually 
sealed, is rich and heavy enough to keep, carefully covered 
in a cool place, without sealing, for several months. 

Although there are many new methods for preserving and 
pickling in vogue, and so-called easier ways of doing the 
work, still the dainties cooked in the large low porcelain-lined 
iron pots of our grandmothers' day have yet to be excelled. 
While still being in favor of most of the old methods it is 
but fair to at least tell something of the new, leaving the 
housekeeper the liberty of her own choice. A few simple 
rules will serve as a general guide aided by a true set of 
kitchen scales, quart and pint cups, and the other parapher- 
nalia summed- up in one of the following paragraphs. 

Preserve Making 

Preserves are usually made of the large seeded fruits, 
pared ''or impared as the case may be. After carefid washing 

525 



526 Preserving and PicKlin^ 

the fruit, either whole or halved and the stones removed, is 
placed in the preserving kettle with three quarters of a pint 
of sugar to a pound of fruit and just enough water to keep 
them from burning. Allow the fruit to heat slowly until it 
begins to give off its own juice, then boil gently and skim 
thoroughly, cooking until the fruit is tender, when it should 
be removed to a large bowl with a skimmer and the juice be 
allowed to boil ten minutes. Now return the fruit to the 
juice and let it all heat through again and it will be ready for 
the jars. Another way is to allow the fruit to cook; first, 
then remove it and add the sugar to the boiling syrup, after 
boiling it ten minutes and skimming carefully, return the 
fruit, boil up once, and then put in the jars. If it is desired 
to make the preserve still richer then use a pound of sugar 
to each pound of fruit, using just as little water as possible, 
only enough to keep them from burning until they begin to 
give off their own juice. 

Dry Pack Canning 

Dry pack canning is the newest form of putting up vege- 
tables and fruits for winter use. The method is recognized 
as the best by the State colleges that teach domestic eco- 
nomy and their teachers show the work to be easy for the 
housekeeper to do and much more economical than the 
old way. 

Tomatoes should first have scalding water turned over 
them and their skins removed. Then pltmge them in cold 
water, and pack them by hand in the jars, as many as can 
be crowded in, add one level teaspoon of salt to each quart 
jar; place the rubber and cap in position, partially seal, but 
not tight, then set the cans in the hot water bath outfit 
and leave them there twenty-two minutes, the water boiling 
around them. Remove the jars, tighten the covers, and in- 
vert them to test the joint while they cool. The next morn- 
ing tighten the covers if they need it; or, if it is possible to 
do so and for especial stewing use, select a few of the best 



Preserving and PicKling 527 

looking jars and wrap them in paper before stowing them 
away, so that they will retain their brilliant coloring. 

Even if the jar is not full after the tomatoes are done, it 
will not affect their keeping in the slightest degree, as no 
air has been allowed to enter the jar from the moment they 
were cooked. The most practical hot water bath outfit is 
the oblong tin water kettle having the rack inside which 
holds eight jars and which is equipped with a tight-fitting 
cover. 

Three important rules are impressed upon the student of 
this new method of canning and there are three good reasons 
for each rule. The first reasons are for "scalding" the 
products: first, to loosen the skins; second, to eliminate 
acid and acrid flavors ; and third, to start the flow of the 
coloring matter which is later arrested by the cold dip. 
The next reason has to do with the "blanching": first, 
to eliminate acids and acrid flavors; second, to reduce the 
bulk of vegetable greens; third, to make it unnecessary to use 
the exhaust period and intermittent process. "Cold dip- 
ping" is done, first, to harden the pulp under the skin and 
thus permit the removal of the skin without injury to the 
pulp; second, to coagulate the coloring matter and make it 
harder to dissolve; third, to make it easier to handle the 
products in packing. 

The claim is made that fruit and vegetables done after this 
method are more true to nature in color, flavor, and texture, 
and more natural in appearance than those done under the 
old ways. Peaches are put eight or ten at a time into a 
double square of cheesecloth; in this they are lowered into 
the boiling water and allowed to blanch there for two or 
three ininutes, then they are removed by the cheesecloth, 
drained a minute, plunged into cold water for a moment, 
then their skins and stones are removed, after which they 
are packed into the jars, the rubber is put in place, and the 
boiling syrup, made in the proportion of two cups of sugar to 
one of water, which has boiled for two minutes before being 
used, is turned into the jars, filling them to overflowing. 



528 Preserving and PicKlin^ 

The cover is then quickly screwed into place, but not firmly 
screwed down. Next the jars are set into the water bath, 
where the boiling water should be kept high enough to cover 
the lower three quarters of the jars, and here they are 
allowed to stay for twelve minutes. They are then removed, 
the covers tightened as much as possible, and the jars in- 
verted to cool and test the joint. 

String beans, after being washed carefully, strung and 
cut into convenient lengths, should be allowed to blanch 
fotir minutes, then be cold dipped. Pack them in the jar, 
adding a level teaspoon of salt to a quart, fill the jar 
with boiling water, partly seal and place in the water bath, 
and allow them to stay there for ninety minutes. 

Other vegetables may be done in similar proportions, 
leaving them in the water same time it would take to cook. 

A number of the preserving outfits of European make 
are temporarily out of the market, so Americans will have 
to depend on some of the old reliable methods and bring 
them up to date as far as possible. The cooking can be 
done in the pint jars by utilizing the double roasting pans 
and the steam cookers. Clean jars, new rubbers, wide- 
mouthed bottles, porcelain jam pots and paper jelly glasses 
or cups, parafiin, sealing-wax, labels, new cheesecloth jelly 
bags, which are better than the old flannel bags, new wooden 
spoons, fresh cheesecloth squares to save the towels, and 
paper dishcloths, should all be ready. Vinegar, fresh spices, 
and herbs should be ready also. The new rubber preserving 
aprons are excellent to wear while dealing with the fruit. 

One thing to remember in pickling or preserving is that the 
best fruits or vegetables, ripe but not overripe, carefully 
washed before preparing, are the only kind there is any 
excuse for preserving. Many women feel that it is better 
economy to prepare the fruits one day, put them away in a 
cold place well covered, and start the actual preserving 
early the next morning. This is practical, especially for 
jam or jelly or any of the pickles, but it is not a wise method 
where whole fruit is to be preserved. 



Preserving' and Pichlin^ 529 

Jelhes made by the cold uncooked process are more 
delicate in flavor, but do not keep as well. While they 
are jelling in the sun the tumblers must be covered with a 
sheet of glass. 

^ All preserve juice and skimmings may be turned into the 
vinegar barrel or jug, as it forms the much to be desired 
"mother," which clears and makes the vinegar fine. Any 
quantity of juice left may also be used for the fruit vinegars, 
which make such refreshing summer drinks. 

The large-seeded fruits make the choicest jams, but many 
people do not object to the seeds in currants, and other small- 
seeded berries, as their flavor is excellent. For the fruit 
jellies many cooks prefer to squeeze the fruit cold, rather 
than the older and more tiresome way of heating it and let- 
ting it drain through the jelly bag. 

Just a word to the housekeeper to remind her while 
she is putting up the winter's stock of jams and jellies not to 
forget the little individual paper jelly cups for the children's 
school lunches. The jellies are invaluable for the purpose 
and perfectly wholesome when made at home. One word as 
to jams : it will be found that jams made of the large rather 
than the seedy fruit will be better liked by the children, who 
at this particular stage may be losing and gaining teeth, 
and the seeds make infinite trouble and are often the cause 
of many painful toothaches. Cherry, strawberry, apricot, 
peach, andpltun jam; raspberry, currant, blackberry, apple, 
grape, and quince jelly will furnish an excellent variety. 

The experienced housekeeper may not need a hint as to 
the necessity of looking after her preserved fruit for a while 
after it is stored away to watch for any signs of its "work- 
ing " but to the new housekeeper the hint may be a welcome 
word of warning. 

Pears, if taken at the very moment they begin to "work," 
may be saved by putting them into the preserving kettle ' 
and boiling down and skimming off the scum that rises to 
the top, and canning again. 

Tomatoes may require the same treatment. Other fruits 



530 Preserving and PicKlin^ 

may respond to the treatment, but it is usually best to add 
some more sugar. 

Sometimes if very hot weather comes after the jellies are 
done up, they have to undergo another boiling if they seem 
inclined to melt, but do not scorch them or boil them so 
that they are too hard or firm when set again. 

Among preserving conveniences the fruit funnels should 
not be overlooked ; they are bowl-shaped with a wide opening 
that allows the fruit to go through into the jars without 
breaking it in pieces. 

PLUMS 

Among the fall fruits there are none more welcome than 
the various members of the pltun family. 

The Damson or Damascene plum takes its name from 
Damascus, where it grows in perfection and whence it was 
first made known to us. The greengage plum is called 
after the Gage family, who first brought it to England from 
the Monastery of the Chartreuse at Paris. 

The Orleans plum is the big yellow one flecked with red 
and was an original French production. The big blue ones 
with the filmy white clouds are the Dutch plums. 

There is a little plum that is known as the beach plum, for 
it grows on a rather scrubby bush at the edge of the seashore 
sand, which makes good jam, jelly or preserve. 

In making the preserves of plums the pound of sugar to 
the pound of fruit is the only sure recipe to follow. If the 
fruit is pricked with a needle in several places it will not 
burst or lose its skin, and thus give an uninviting look to 
the preserves. 

Damson Cheese 

Wash and pick the stalks from six pounds of damson plums, 
then put them in the preserving pan, barely covering them 
with water. Simmer gently over the fire until they are quite 
soft, stirring them occasionally; when soft beat them through 



Preserving and FicKlin^ 531 

a coarse sieve, put the pulp and juice into the preserving 
kettle, adding their weight in sugar weighed before cooking, 
and simmer well for two hours, skimming carefully; then 
draw to a hotter part of the stove and boil a half hour 
more, briskly stirring and watching carefully until it looks 
firm enough to jell down when cold, and it seems hard on 
the spoon. Turn the cheese at once into porcelain jam 
pots or earthenware molds. When cold, cover down 
with an oiled paper, then a tissue paper that has been 
brushed on either side with white of egg, label, and store 
away. 

Plum Paste 

Wash and weigh two pounds of plums and the same 
amount of sugar, put a cup of water on the plums and let 
them simmer and melt; cook until all are soft, then put 
through a sieve, add the sugar, boil twenty minutes, watch- 
ing the paste carefully, then spread on a tin to dry. When 
dry cut in squares and dust with powdered sugar, then 
pack in a tin box. 

Greengage Sweetmeats 

To every pound of fruit allow one pound of sugar and a 
quarter pint of water. Select perfect fruit not fully ripe 
and leave the stalks on. Make a syrup of the water and 
sugar and when ready put in the fruit and boil ten minutes, 
then remove fruit with a skimmer and set aside; next day 
heat the syrup and when hot put in the fruit and simmer 
three minutes, then drain it. Repeat this process for six, 
days; on the last day put the plums on a fine sieve and place 
them in a cooling oven to dry; when dry enough pack them 
in a box with wax paper between the layers. These sweet- 
meats are good to serve at afternoon functions with ice 
cream or for decorating cakes or puddings. 



532 Preserving and FicKlin^ 

QUINCES 

For quince preserves select twelve smooth quinces, wash 
and wipe the fuzz off carefully, pare, core, and quarter 
them, throwing them into two quarts of cold water to keep 
them from turning black. Put the peelings into one quart 
of water with seeds and cores. Let the quinces come to a 
boil and cook until tender when tried with a straw; remove 
carefully to a bowl, add three pints of sugar, one clove, 
and one thin slice of lemon to the juice, boil and reduce 
to nearly one half. Put in the quinces and boil gently for 
five minutes, then seal in jars. 

Whatever remains add with two or three smaller quinces 
to the parings and let them simmer for an hour; remove 
carefully, strain, and to every pint of juice add three 
quarters of a pound of sugar, boil the jelly about twenty 
minutes or until it is the right consistency when tried on 
a cold plate. Turn into jelly glasses and cover in the usual 
way when cold and set. 

Quince Jam 

Quince jam is made by following the same formula as is 
used for the preserves, except the sugar is added at once and 
the whole mixture cooked slowly for an hour or more. It 
must be carefully watched, for any heavy sweet mixture 
burns readily. It may be packed away in stone crocks for 
winter use, with the usual protection of brandy paper of 
parafine covering. 

Quince Marmalade 

Slice the quinces into the preserving kettle; add enough 
clear water to float them, and boil until reduced to a pulp, 
stirring them carefully with a wooden spoon. When done 
strain through a fine sieve, and add three quarters of a 
pound of sugar to each pound of pulp; then boil carefully 
to the consistency of marmalade, and store away in jars. 



Preserving and PicKling 533 

first testing on a plate to see if it is ready to jell. When 
cold in the jars, cover down. 

Rhubarb and Orange Jam 

Peel one dozen ripe oranges, remove the white pith and 
the seeds, slice the pulp into a preserving pan, add the rind 
of half the oranges cut into strips and two pounds of sugar. 
Peel and cut fine three bunches of rhubarb; let the oranges 
and sugar melt together; pour boiling water on the rhubarb 
and let it stand for ten minutes, drain and add the rhubarb 
to the orange. Cook over an even fire, stirring carefully 
with a wooden spoon, until the jam is done; remove all the 
scum as it rises; when partially cool turn the jam into little 
pots and when thoroughly cold cover down. 

For Blueberry Pie 

If one goes in for pie fillings, don't forget in the blue- 
berry season to do up some of the big white clouded seedless 
variety for the purpose, as they are the finest that come to 
this market, and their season is rather short. 

Tangerine Preserves 

Remove the skins from three dozen tangerines, separate 
the segments, pulling away all the white skin, and add to it 
the pulp of one large grapefruit. Cut the skins fine and boil 
until tender, then drain and add to the uncooked fruit, add- 
ing as much sugar as there is pulp and skin. Cook for half 
an hotu: and serve cold. 

Grapefruit Marmalade 

Two grapefruit, two oranges, two lemons, sugar, water. 
Time: Preparation, two days; cooking, one hour and a 
half, about. Cut fruit in quarters; remove seeds, and slice 
■ — through pulp and rind — in very thin slices. Use a small 
board and a very sharp knife. Fruit may be put through 
food-chopper if preferred, but this is not so good. To each 



534 Preserving and PicKling 

pound of fruit add three pints of water. Place in an enamel 
or earthen bowl, and let stand for twenty-four hours. Next 
boil gently until rind is tender. Let stand again for twenty- 
four hours. To each pound add one pound of sugar and 
cook slowly until thick and clear. Try by chilling a little 
on a saucer. Do not overcook. Pour into sterilized glasses 
or jars, and seal. 

Fig Jam 

Take two pounds of loose figs, wash, and boil them tmtil 
tender. When done, chop fine and add one pound of sugar, 
juice of one lemon, a small cup of spiced vanilla syrup, and a 
half cup of honey. Let boil, stirring carefully until it begins 
to jell when tried on a cold plate. Turn into small jars. 

Preserved Pumpkin 

Cut, pare, and seed one ripe pumpkin, weigh it, and cut it 
into small pieces. In a deep dish put alternate layers of 
pumpkin and of sugar, using as many pounds of sugar as 
there is pumpkin. Pour one gill of lemon juice over the 
top and let stand for two days. Then boil, adding a half 
pint of water to each three pounds; when the pumpkin is 
tender turn all back into the crock and let stand for a 
few days, then strain off the juice, add a lemon rind and 
a quarter pound of bruised ginger, and boil the juice down 
quite thick; skim well and turn it over the pimapkin. This 
will keep until used in a well covered crock. 

Preserved Green Ginger 

Soak the ginger for ten days, putting on fresh boiling 
water every morning and night; then scrape the outside off 
with a sharp knife, boil it in water until it is quite soft, then 
cut it into thin slices. Make a syrup of a pound of sugar to 
a half pint of water, letting a small spice bag boil in it, 
and when clear add it to the ginger, boil all up together, 
skim, and put into a crock to cool. 



Preserving and PicKling 535 

Preserved Cherries and Pecans 

To six pounds of ripe, well washed, and stoned cherries 
add four pounds of granulated sugar. "When all is melted ' 
together let come to boiling point slowly and boil, skimming 
carefully, until the fruit is done. Have ready one pound of 
carefully shelled and halved pecans, stir them into the 
fruit, and boil down to the proper consistency, which is 
reached when the boiling is heavy and smothered. It can 
be judged by trying a little on a cold plate. It must be 
very carefully watched and stirred with a wooden spoon oi" 
paddle, as it is very apt to burn. When slightly cool it may 
be turned into a sun-warmed crock, and when cold covered 
with a linen cloth and the crock cover and set away or 
it may be sealed in jars, hot, as in the case of the regular, 
preserves. 

Almost any nuts except Brazil nuts or pine nuts may be 
used in this way with any of the seedless fruits, but those 
nuts having a skin, like hazel nuts and almonds, should be 
blanched and carefully dried before being added to the 
preserves. 

Gooseberry Jelly 

Warm the fruit and squeeze the juice out. Add three 
quarters of a pound of sugar to a pint of the juice, and like 
all acid fruits it may require more than the proverbial twenty 
minutes to boil. Try it on a cold plate, however, to be sure. 
Jelly, when too stiff, is not inviting. 

Preserved Marrow 

To five pounds of marrow add five pounds of lump sugar, 
two ounces of green ginger, the rind and the juice of three 
lemons, and preserved ginger to taste. 

Cut the marrow in squares the size of a walnut, sprinkle 
slightly with salt, and let it stand for an hour. Drain off 
the salt and rinse with a little water. Next add the sugar 



536 Preserving and PicKlin^ 

and let it stand until the sugar is dissolved. Then boil until 
the marrow is transparent, probably one hour. 

Stew the lemon rind and ginger in a little water until it is 
sufficiently cooked ; then shred the peel. Then put the peel, 
ginger, and lemon juice together and boil them with the 
marrow for fifteen minutes before taking up. The juice 
may be drained from the marrow and boiled gently for half 
an hour; then put the marrow back into the juice. 

The Tutti-Frutti Jar 

May is the time to start the tutti-frutti jar, when the 
first good strawberries come and apricots are in the market. 
Use for the purpose a deep stone crock which has a tight- 
fitting cover. Put into it a pint of the best brandy, then 
add a cup of sugar to each cup of carefully washed and 
seeded fruit as the season progresses. The brandy is used 
as a preservative. 

After the strawberries, pitted cherries, and apricots have 
been added, put in a half pint more brandy, then a spice 
bag, tying a string to it so that it may be drawn out when 
desired. If it is left in all season it grows unsanitary. Black- 
berries, raspberries, ciurants, and gooseberries may be added 
if one does not object to the small seeds. If one does, a 
half cup of the juice of each with a quarter of a cup of sugar 
will give the flavor. 

Pineapples and peaches should be used freely, and one 
thinly sliced and seeded lemon must not be forgotten. 
In August add a cup of Jamaica rum; then finish filling 
the jar with the late fruits. Stir carefully as each ingredi- 
ent is added, using a wooden spatula. When all have been 
added, put a heavy brandied cloth under the cover and set 
away in a cool place. 

From time to time stir the contents, and in October it 
may be well to add a little more brandy. This, however, 
depends on how the fruit has been keeping or how rapidly 
it is being used. When the best of the fruit has been 



Preserving and PicKling 537 

used, strain the syrup, and use the fine fruit that is left in a 
pudding, and the syrup for sauces or punch. 

JELLIES AND JAMS FOR SUMMER 

(To be made and eaten during the warm weather) 
Pineapple Jelly 

Pare and dice four fresh sweet pineapples, add one pint 
of clear water, and let come slowly to boiling point; let stand 
at boiling point and gently simmer for half an hour, then 
cool slightly and strain. To each pint of the juice add three 
quarters of a pint of sugar, boil twenty minutes, skimming 
carefully, then turn into jelly glasses. This is good for a 
salad jelly, or with custard, as well as in cake or sand- 
wich filling. 

Apricot Jelly 

Wash and halve a four-pound box of apricots, place in a 
preserve kettle with a pint of water, let slowly melt, and then 
boil for twenty minutes. Strain through a white strainer so 
that the fruit may be used up in a pie, then strain the juice 
again so that it is clear, add three quarters of a pint of sugar 
to each pint of juice, boil twenty minutes, then fill the little 
tumblers. This is specially designed to serve with dessert 
dishes, to garnish ice cream, to serve with fruit salads, or as 
the center of custards with whipped cream. 

Grapefruit Jelly 

To three cups of grapefruit juice and pulp add two tea- 
spoons lemon juice, half a cup of sugar, one and a half cups 
of water, and a heaping tablespoon of gelatine. Put the 
gelatine and other ingredients into a saucepan, stir over the 
fire until they almost boil, then strain and add two table- 
spoons of sherry wine. Turn into a wet mold, let set and 
chill. Serve with whipped sweetened cream. 



538 Preserving and PicKling 

Prune Jelly 

Wash the prunes and soak them three hours in cold water, 
then put them into a Small basin, add half a cup of water, 
cover tightly, and steam until soft. Remove the stones and 
place the prunes in a wet mbld. Put one heaping table- 
spoon of gelatine into a saucepan, add one cup of water, one 
cup of sugar, one tablespoon of lemon juice, juice of two 
oranges, and stir over the fire until the gelatine dissolves, 
then strain over the prunes. Add a cup of sherry, set away 
to harden and chill, and serve with whipped sweetened 
cream. 

Mint Jelly 

Take a pint of freshly gathered mint leaves, wash, and add 
to them a quart of water and a cup of tarragon vinegar, two 
cups of sugar, a half saltspoon of paprika, and a teas|)oon of 
salt; boil gently for twenty minutes. Add a half package 
of gelatine that has been standing in a little cold water, let 
all heat and melt, then strain carefully into little glasses to 
set. This is excellent to serve with cold meats, or to use in 
fresh cucumber salad with French dressing or mayonnaise. 

Rose Leaf Jam 

Gather a quantity of fresh red and pink rose leaves when 
they have unfolded after a recent shower and to every solid 
pint add a scant pint of sugar. To six pints of the leaves 
add one quart of distilled water, let all slowly heat and melt. 
When it reaches the boiling point, stir carefully and boil 
twenty minutes; turn into little jam pots and when cold 
cover down for use. This is good to serve with ice cream, 
for cake filling, or for sandwiches. 

Strawberry Jam 

To six quarts of prime strawberries add five pounds of 
sugar, let melt slowly, then boil for a half hour and try on a 



Preserving and PicKling 539 

cold plate. Let a spice bag boil with the jam but remove it 
when jam is done. Turn into little jam pots. An excellent 
dainty for a breakfast tray, with buttered toast or hot rolls. 

Carrot Jam 

This jam is excellent to eat with cold meats and is not 
difficult to make. Scrape and boil one quart of carrots. 
When very tender, drain them and mash through a colander. 
Add to the pulp one pound of sugar, the juice of a lemon, a 
tablespoon of ginger syrup, and a pinch of cinnamon. Boil 
all together slowly, stirring carefully until it seems to jelly; 
then turn into small individual jam pots. 

JELLIES TO USE WITH FISH 

In serving fish, baked, broiled, or boiled, hot or cold, 
an appropriate savory jelly is always good with it, making 
an edible as well as an attractive garnish. A sweet or ordi- 
nary ready-made jelly is not suitable for the purpose, so it 
must be made the day before or early in the morning of the 
day on which it is to be used to give it time to harden. 

If the jellies are to be served as a garnish then place each 
little mold on a toasted crouton; then the hot platter will 
not melt it. If served as a separate portion it may be mold- 
ed in a large mold and helped by the spoonful. 

Jellies made for this purpose are not always clear like fruit 
jellies, for, in order to give a better flavor to the jelly, the 
principal ingredient is put through a pur^e sieve, which 
makes the jelly seem naore solid and less delicate in appear- 
ance. But the flavor will make up for any other seeming 
lack. 

Tomato Jelly 

Take one can, or a pound and a half of fresh tomatoes, 
and put in a saucepan with three cups of water, a sliced onion, 
a stalk of celery, a bay leaf, two cloves, one tablespoon of 
ketchup, teaspoon of Worcestershire sauce, a saltspoon of pep- 



540 Preserving and PicKlin^ 

per, a teaspoon of salt, tablespoon of sugar, three heaping 
tablespoons of gelatine soaked in a little of the water, and the 
whites and shells of two eggs. Stir over the fire until the 
mixtvxe boils, then cover and let it boil gently for eight 
minutes, then drain through a fine sieve. Pour boiling 
water through a jelly bag, then strain the jelly through it, 
add two or three drops of red coloring, and potir into wet 
molds. 

Asparagus Jelly 

Drain the water from one can of asparagus tips, add two 
and a half cups of water, stew until tender, then add the 
juice of one onion, tablespoon of sugar, juice of half a lemon, 
a saltspoon of pepper, a teaspoon of salt, a half saltspoon of 
celery salt, tablespoon of chutney syrup, and three table- 
spoons of gelatine powder that has been mixed with a little 
cold water. Stir all together until the gelatine is melted, 
then strain and mash through a puree sieve. Fill little wet 
molds and set away to chill. A bunch of fresh green as- 
paragus may be used instead if the tips are cut well back so 
only the tenderest is cooked. If the fish is to be served cold 
then each little jelly turned onto a toasted crouton may 
have a teaspoon of mayonnaise on top with an asparagus 
tip stuck in it or a spray of fresh watercress. 

Rhubarb Jelly 

Put one and a half cups of sugar, half a lemon, and a 
cup of water in a saucepan and bring to boiling point. Then 
add three pounds of rhubarb cut fine, simmer gently for 
twenty minutes, then strain, add four heaping tablespoons 
of gelatine dissolved in a little boiling water; stjr until all is 
smooth, then color a good red and pour into the molds. 

Fennel Jelly 

To four cups of water add one cup of sugar, three heaping 
tablespoons of gelatine wet in a little warm water, and the 



Preserving and Pickling 541 

whites and shells of two eggs. Stir over a slow fire until it all 
melts and comes to the boiling point. Boil five minutes, 
adding a tablespoon of fennel seed (fresh if possible) and 
enough fennel flavoring to suit the taste; color a delicate 
green and turn into the wet molds. When serving put a 
little mayonnaise on top and sprinkle with a little finely 
chopped pistachio nuts. If the jelly needs straining 
through the jelly bag do so before putting in the seeds 
and coloring. 

Cucumber Jelly 

Pare and remove seeds from four cucumbers and grate 
them, add four tablespoons of vinegar, half a cup of water, 
a teaspoon of salt, a saltspoon of pepper, teaspoon of onion 
juice, one heaping tablespoon of powdered gelatine, moist- 
ened with water; pour into a saucepan and stir over 
moderate heat until the gelatine has dissolved. When 
slightly cool add a few drops of green Breton coloring to 
make it delicate green and turn into the wet molds. At 
serving time each little jelly may be set on a crisp lettuce 
leaf and have a teaspoon of French dressing turned over it. 

Champagne Jelly 

Dissolve five heaping tablespoons of gelatine in tour cups 
of water, add one and a half cups of sugar, a cup of sherry 
wine and a cup of champagne, two cloves, small stick of 
cinnamon, juice of a small grapefruit, whites and shells of 
two eggs. Stir until it boils, then allow it to boil gently four 
minutes, strain through a scalded jelly bag, color a delicate 
pink, and turn into the wet molds. 

Mint Julep or Creme de Menthe Jelly 

Take one ounce of powdered agar (flakes or powder), to be 
procured at any drug store at about twenty-five cents an 
ounce, add to it one and a half quarts of water and five 
pounds and four ounces of sugar. Let it come to a boil, 



542 Preserving and FicKlin^ 

skim carefully, and test on a cold plate. It will require 
boiling from fifteen to twenty minutes, according to the 
atmosphere. When finished remove from the fire and add 
crSme de menthe to taste. Pour into the jelly tumblers, 
and when cold cover in the usual way. 

Proceed in the same way for the mint julep jelly, but 
bruise enough mint leaves, cleanly washed, to make one 
cup, and let them marinate in one cup of hot brandy with 
three cloves for one hour. After' the jelly has boiled fifteen 
minutes, strain the brandy into the mixture, and let it boil 
for five minutes with the jelly, skimming carefully. When 
cold cover the tumblers in the usual way. 

SOME PICKLING IDEAS AND RECIPES 

(What to do and when to do it to obtain the best conserving 

results) 

There are in the art of pickling a few general rules to heed 
if the best results are to follow the housewife's efforts. 
First, the articles to be pickled must be the best that the 
market affords and taken at the season of their prime. 
The utensils used for vinegar boiling should be of the heavy 
granite ware, porcelain-lined ware or, better still, the earthen 
or stone pipkin. 

Wooden forks and spoons and silver knives only should 
be used in the preparation of pickle material. Glass jars, 
bottles or crocks are the only things to store away the 
pickles in. 

Cider, wine, and tarragon vinegars are the best to use. 
In the closet and ready for use before the day of pickling is 
at hand should be fresh spices, both whole and ground; 
mustard seed, sweet herbs, peppers, whole and ground; 
salt, sugar, brown and white; ginger root and any of the 
well known pickle colorings if they are liked. Bottles, jars, 
labels, sealing wax, and wax paper must be at hand. Then 
the cook is ready to go ahead. 



Preserving and PicKlin^ 543 

Always remember that a bright sunny day is by far the 
best for pickle making, as the atmosphere has a great deal 
to do with the keeping properties of conserves. 

To Make a Spice Bag 

In a square of clean linen cloth place twelve cloves, one 
stick of broken cinnamon, a half teaspoon of mustard seed, 
the same amount of celery seed, a broken blade of mace, a 
quarter of a crushed nutmeg, and a small piece of dried 
lemon peel. Tie the cloth into a bag, leaving a long string 
so that it may be dropped into a pot and pulled out again 
at will. 

Quick Pickles 

Select fifty little cucumbers of two inches in length and 
uniform in size, wash, and cover them with cold water to 
which a generous handful of salt has been added; cover and 
let stand for twelve hours, wash and pack in a crock. Boil 
as much cider vinegar as will cover them, adding a spicebag 
and a small pepper; let boil five minutes, then turn over the 
pickles and cover tightly. When cold remove the pepper 
but let the spice bag remain for a week or so. In two days 
or even before, they are ready for use. 

Pickled Surprise 

Boil twelve fresh eggs hard and remove the shells. Cut 
them lengthwise and remove the yolks. Boil six small 
beets for thirty minutes, then skin and chop them with the 
egg yolks. Add the juice of one onion, a teaspoon of salt, 
and a saltspoon of pepper. Fill the egg whites with the 
mixture and tie together with kitchen tape, then pack into 
a stone crock. Boil one pint of vinegar with a tablespoon 
of sugar and a tiny spice bag five minutes and pour over 
the eggs. These will be ready for use in twenty-four 
hours. 



544 Preserving and PicKling 

Nasturtium Pickles 

The pods are ripe from the end of July until the end of 
August. Gather them on a dry day, put them in a dry glass 
bottle after wiping them carefully. Fill each bottle with 
vinegar, six peppercorns, and one ounce of salt. When 
the bottle is filled, cork and seal tightly and let stand three 
months before using. 

Ladies' Delight Pickle 

Put together eight ounces each of chopped onions, pared, 
cored, and chopped apples, two ounces of chopped chillies or 
sweet peppers, and place them in a jar. Boil one pint of 
white vinegar, adding a large spoon of salt. Pour this over 
the ingredients named and when quite cold, bottle. 

Pickled Cherries 

Stem four pounds of cherries, wash, and put them in a 
stone crock. Heat two quarts of vinegar with two pounds 
of sugar and a spice bag, boil up five minutes, and skim; 
then pour over the cherries and let them stand covered a 
week. Drain off the syrup and boil it five minutes more, 
then turn it back over the cherries and when cold remove 
the spice bag and cover down tightly. 

Ripe Tomato Soy 

Wash, pare, and slice one peck of ripe firm tomatoes. 
Put them into the kettle with eight thinly sliced onions, and 
a cup of salt. Let them stand twenty-four hours, then 
drain them. Put them back into the kettle and add two 
quarts of vinegar, one tablespoon each of ground mustard, 
ginger, cloves, allspice, and a teaspoon of cayenne pepper. 
Cook for two and a half hours, then add two pounds of sugar 
and three quarters of a pound of white mustard seed; allow 
it to boil for a half hour longer, then turn into a crock to 
cool. 



Preserving and Pickling 545 

Tomato Chutney 

Wash and chop one and a haK pounds of ripe, firm to- 
matoes with a pound and three quarters of pared, cored 
tart apples and a pound and a half of stoned raisins. Put 
in a kettle with a pound and a half of sugar, two ounces 
of chopped onion, four ounces of salt, and a saltspoon of 
cayenne pepper. Add three pints of cider vinegar and one 
of tarragon, boil for three hours, stirring often, and when 
done bottle and seal. This makes an excellent sauce to 
use with cold meat. 

Pickled Cauliflowers 

Select white, full heads of cauliflower, wash and separate 
the sprays, lay on fiat plates and sprinkle with salt and let 
stand for three days to draw the water out of them; then 
pack them in a crock and immerse in boiling water and let 
stand overnight. Wash and drain and pack into glass jars, 
putting three cloves and a small red pepper in each jar and 
covering with vinegar. Rinsed, these make a delightful 
winter salad. They may also be treated for sweet pickling 
like the watermelon rind. 

Pickled Watennelon Rind 

Muskmelon and the citron may be treated in the same 
way as this popular sweet pickle. Cut the fruit into good 
serving size, pack in a stone crock, and potu" over it enough 
scalding vinegar to cover it; next morning heat the vinegar 
again and let stand until cold; then heat once more. Weigh 
the fruit and to every five pounds of fruit add three of sugar; 
cloves, cinnamon, and allspice may be tied in a little bag 
and dropped in with a quart of vinegar. Let all boil to- 
gether until the fruit is tender; then strain out the fruit 
and boil down the syrup to one half the quantity. Put 
the fruit back to heat a minute, then turn into a crock or 
wide-mouthed bottle. 

35 



546 Preserving and PicKlin^ 

Sweet Pickled Peppers 

Take seven pounds of ripe red peppers, wash and halve 
them, and remove the stem end with the seed cone. Put 
four pounds of sugar, one quart of vinegar, two ounces 
each of cinnamon and cloves, one thinly sliced lemon, two 
buds of garlic, and a small piece of green ginger root into the 
kettle and boil it for five minutes and then put in the pep- 
pers. When the peppers are tender, remove them and boil 
down the sj^rup untilit is rich; remove the garlic and the 
ginger, put back the peppers and boil up once, and they are 
ready to put into the crock to cool. If a stalk of celery 
is allowed to boil while the peppers boil, and is removed 
when the garlic is, it adds a delicious flavor to the pickle. 

Banana Sweet Pickle 

This is a good sweet pickle to serve with cold meats. It 
is much used by the Cubans in Havana, but is a strange 
dish to northerners. Make a very thick syrup of two cups 
of sugar and a half cup of water, add to it three tablespoons 
of vinegar, cloves, allspice, and cinnamon to taste. While 
the syrup is hot pour it over a half dozen ripe bananas that 
have been sliced crosswise. Let the pickle stand several 
hours before serving. 

Sweet Pickled Peaches 

To seven pounds of peaches allow three and three quar- 
ter pounds of sugar, one quart vinegar, two ounces of cloves, 
and two ounces of stick cinnamon. Boil the sugar and the 
vinegar with several sticks of the cinnamon for five minutes, 
then put in the peaches. When they are cooked try them 
with a straw, take them out and boil the syrup down to one 
half the quantity, replace the fruit and let it heat through 
again, but not boil. Two or three cloves may be put into 
the boiling vinegar, but the rest tie in a little linen bag 
and throw into the crock, and after a few weeks remove, 



Preserving and PicKling 547 

as they get slimy and turn the fruit dark. Put a little of 
the cinnamon loose, however, in the crock. 

Chili Sauce 

Chop twenty-five onions, fifty ripe tomatoes, twelve green 
peppers, a bunch of celery, and a few tarragon leaves very 
fine; add two quarts of vinegar, three cups of sugar, one 
tablespoon of allspice, one of cloves, one of cinnamon, one of 
mace, and three tablespoons of salt. Boil for two and one 
half hours; then let cOol, taste, and add any more flavor 
required. Heat to boiling point once more to assimilate 
the flavor, then put in stone crock and cover. It must be 
carefully watched and stirred with a wooden spoon, for it 
is thick and heavy and likely to burn. 

Southern Pickle 

Wash and chop fine without paring eight pounds of green 
tomatoes. Put in a kettle and boil an hour and a half. 
Add three pounds of granulated sugar and boil an hour and 
a half longer, stirring often, so it does not burn. Then 
add one quart of vinegar, one teaspoon each of ground 
cinnamon, mace, and cloves, and boil down for twenty 
minutes; then bottle it and seal carefully. 

Tomato Chowchow 

Peel and cut fine six large, ripe tomatoes. Chop one 
onion fine, add it to the tomato with a chopped green pepper, 
one tablespoon of salt, two of brown sugar, and two cups 
of vinegar. Stew gently for one hour, stirring carefully 
so as not to break the tomato too fine. Put away in a stone 
crock well covered. 

Green Tomato Mincemeat 

Wash and chop fine one peck of green tomatoes. Drain 
them free from all water, and put them into the preserving 



548 Preserving and PicKlin^ 

kettle with six pounds of brown sugar; boil for four hours. 
Then add three pounds of stoned and chopped raisins, one 
pound chopped dates, two tablespoons of cinnamon, one 
tablespoon of allspice, one ounce of cloves, half of a grated 
nutmeg, and a level tablespoon of salt. Boil all together for 
a half hour, stirring thoroughly ; then seal hot in jars. This 
makes delicious winter pies. 

Sweet Pickled Vegetable Marrow 

Select ioux or five vegetable marrows, pare, halve, and 
remove the seeds; cut them in eight or ten pieces each, put 
in a preserving kettle, and cover with fair water; boil until 
tender enough to pierce with a splint, then remove from the 
fire and drain. Make a syrup of two quarts of vinegar, two 
pounds of brown sugar, two ounces of cloves and two ounces 
of stick cinnamon, two smooth thinly sliced lemons with the 
seeds removed, and half a vanilla bean. Boil the syrup 
for ten minutes, then add the marrow, and cook for ten 
minutes, skimming carefully. If the syrup is not thick 
enough, remove the marrow and cook it down a little bit 
more; then turn it over the marrow in a crock. When cold 
cover and set away. 

Spanish Pickle 

Select, wash, and cut the stem end from fifty ripe, firm 
tomatoes; wash and remove the seeds from twelve green 
peppers; pare twenty-five red onions, break apart and wash 
one big bunch of celery; then chop all fine. Add two 
pounds of brown sugar, four quarts of vinegar, one table- 
spoon each of allspice, cloves, cinnamon, and mace, two 
tablespoons of salt, a half teaspoon of cayenne pepper, and 
one bud of garlic chopped fine with six shalots and the 
leaves from six stalks of tarragon. Boil evenly for two 
hours, stirring carefully, for as it gets boiled down thick it 
catches easily. If not quite thick enough boil another 



Preserving and PicKlin^ 549 

half hour; if it is too thick add a small quantity of 
vinegar and boil at least five minutes after it has been 
added. When the pickle is cold put away in a crock 
with a linen cloth over it; then close down the cover and 
keep in a cool dry place. This is delicious with cold 
meats. 

Sweet Pickled Quinces 

Wipe with a soft cloth, pare, core, and quarter three dozen 
quinces; put them in the preserving kettle, cover them with 
fair water, and boil evenly until they are tender when a 
broom splint is stuck into them. Remove, drain, and set 
aside while making the syrup. For this take two quarts of 
good vinegar, three pounds of sugar, two ounces of whole 
cloves, and two ounces of fresh stick cinnamon, broken into 
two-inch lengths. Boil for ten minutes, skimming carefully, 
then add the quinces and boil for five minutes; then remove 
them with a skimmer and put them into an enamel sieve 
to drain. Boil the syrup down a little, adding what has 
drained from the fruit and a small piece of green ginger that 
has been washed clean; turn the fruit into a clean dry crock 
and turn the syrup over it. When cold, cover and set away 
in a cool place. In handling the fruit be careful not to 
break the pieces or the pickle will not look inviting when 
served. 

Tomato Figs 

Take six pounds of sugar and sixteen pounds of firm ripe 
tomatoes which must be scalded to remove their skins. Put 
them in a preserving kettle and cook them in their own juice 
until the sugar penetrates and they are clarified; then remove 
them from the syrup and spread them on dishes, flattening 
each tomato slightly, and set them in the sun to dry. Occa- 
sionally add a small amount of syrup while they are drying. 
When they are dried pack them down in boxes, sprinkling 
over each layer a little powdered sugar. The box must be 



55° Preserving and PicKling 

lined with waxed paper. Tin, wooden, or even paper boxes 
will do as long as they are tight. Tomatoes fixed in this 
manner will make a tempting winter conserve and be an 
unusual addition to the winter menu. 

Mustard Pickle 

Let stand in a light brine overnight (a handful of salt to 
two quarts of water) one quart each of coarsely chopped 
green tomatoes, large cucumbers cut in inch length pieces, 
small cucumbers whole, silver-skinned onions pared, two red 
peppers chopped fine, and one large cauliflower broken into 
sprays. In the morning drain well and scald, then lay in a 
crock and pour over the following : two cups of brown sugar, 
one cup of flour, six tablespoons of dry mustard, one table- 
spoon of tumeric, one and a half tablespoons of salt, and 
blend all with two quarts of heated vinegar. Stir con- 
stantly over a moderate heat until the mixture thickens, 
then turn it over the pickles, allowing them to cool. When 
cold cover down closely. 

SUMMER SALAD VINEGARS 

To vary the flavoring of the French dressing so popular 
and generally used for summer salads, one should follow 
the English fashion of making a stock of flavored vinegars. 
They are simple to make, and add a flavoring which is 
impossible to get in any other way in the dressing used 
from day to day. 

Garlic or Shalot Vinegar 

The garlic vinegar is made by putting into a quart of 
white vinegar two ounces of minced garlic. The shalot 
vinegar is made in the same way, using two ounces of minced 
shalot. After standing three weeks, these vinegars, if 
not used by that time, may be strained and turned back into 
the bottle, lest they become too strongly flavored. 



Preserving and Fichling 55 r 

Horseradish Vinegar 

Take three ounces of freshly scraped horseradish, a 
saltspoon of cayenne pepper, one ounce of finely chopped 
shalots, and add them to a quart of good vinegar. Pour 
into a clean bottle, cork tightly, and label. Strain as it is 
used. 

Cress or Celery Vinegar 

To one quart of fresh cider vinegar add a half ounce of 
crushed cress seed, with a half saltspoon of cayenne pepper. 
If it is desired to make this stronger, then three tablespoons 
of chopped, fresh cress may be put into the vinegar first 
and brought to boiling point, then carefully strained out, 
and when the vinegar is cold the seed may be added and 
it may be bottled. The celery seed is used in the same way 
and the same idea may be carried out with the fresh celery 
but it is not as good as to use only the seed, for without 
it is kept in a cold place and used soon after being made it is 
apt to ferment. 

Chili Vinegar 

Put fifty carefully washed and bruised little sweet pep- 
pers into a quart of the finest vinegar; let them stand one 
month, then strain, put in one fresh pepper and a pinch of 
cayenne, and bottle again for use. 

Sweet Spiced Vinegar 

To a quart and a pint of cider vinegar add one pound of 
brown sugar, a thinly sliced lemon, a teaspoon of cloves, a 
handful of broken cinnamon sticks, a tiny piece of green 
ginger, carefully washed; turn into a porcelain-lined kettle, 
and when melted together boil ten minutes, skimming care- 
fully; simmer slowly five minutes, remove from the fire, 
and when cold bottle and cork. This is excellent to add 



552 Preserving and FicKling 

to almost any of the different salads where fruit is used, but 
of course in a small quantity. 

Beet, tarragon, mint, and fennel vinegar are all well 
known and are nice to have on the pantry shelf. 

RECIPES FOR HOME-MADE KETCHUPS 

With all the good condiments that are offered in the shops 
it seems as though one need not bother with making them 
at home, but on the other hand if one has a productive 
kitchen garden or orchard, the materials are ripe and in 
quantity and it is wanton waste not to use them. The 
suburban housewife has more time to do these things than 
the city dweller and also more room to make and store them 
in; besides, doing a great deal of entertaining, she uses 
more things of this sort. 

Good ketchups are always acceptable with cold meats or 
fish, and it is wise to have several kinds stowed away to 
choose from. 

Tomato Ketchup 

Wash one peck of ripe, firm tomatoes and cut off the stem 
end; place in a porcelain kettle with one pint of cold water 
and cook imtil they are very soft, then strain first through a 
colander, then through a sieve, Return to the kettle and add 
one tablespoon of salt, one of ground pepper, one of ground 
cloves, one teaspoon of cayenne pepper, a quarter pound of 
dry mustard, and a tablespoon of celery seed tied in a muslin 
bag. Boil for four hours, stirring occasionally. The last 
hour when it is thick stir almost constantly, then turn into 
a crock and when perfectly cold add one pint of strong vine- 
gar, remove the celery seed, stir, bottle, cork, and seal. 
Keep in a cool, dark, and dry place. 

Mushroom Ketchup 

Choose one peck of freshly picked mushroom flaps that 
have been gathered on a dry day. Wash them carefully and 



Preserving and PicKlin^ 553 

place a layer in a deep crock, sprinkle salt on them, then 
another layer of mushrooms, and so on until they are all 
used. Let them stand a few hours, then break them with 
the hands and put in a cool place for three days, occasionally 
stirring and mashing them to extract as much juice as pos- 
sible. Then measure the quantity of liquor without drain- 
ing off the mushrooms and add to each quart a half ounce of 
ground ginger, a half ounce of allspice, a quarter ounce of 
cayenne pepper, and two blades of mace. Put all into a jar 
or jars, set into boiling water and let boil for three hours. 
Turn into a porcelain kettle and let simmer for a half hour, 
turn into a jug and let stand overnight, then pour it off 
into another jug, strain, and pour into very clean dry bottles. 
All this is done to leave the sediment, so do not squeeze 
or press the mushrooms. Cork and seal. It should be 
looked at occasionally and if it is not keeping well remove 
and boil over, adding a few whole peppercorns. 

Grape Ketchup 

Select, wash, and stem five pounds of ripe Isabella grapes, 
place them in the kettle with a pint of cold water, let heat 
slowly, then boil until the grapes are done; strain through 
a colander and after the kettle is rinsed return the juice 
to it and add one pint of vinegar, two and a half pounds of 
sugar, one teaspoon each of pepper, cinnamon, cloves, all- 
spice, and a half teaspoon of salt. Boil until slightly thick- 
ened, then bottle, cork, and seal. 

Liver Ketchup 

This is rather unusual in the sauce line, but epicures 
delight in its use especially with cold game. Take one fresh 
beef liver and rub it well with salt, place in a crock, and rub 
and turn it daily in the salt for a week; then mince it into 
small dice and boil it in a gallon of water closely covered 
until reduced to three quarts. Strain through a sieyp 
and let settle and cool until next day. Add one ounc'e of 



554 Preserving and PicKling 

ground ginger, one ounce of allspice, two ounces of whole 
black pepper, and boil slowly until reduced one half. When 
cold, bottle and seal. 

Walnut Ketchup 

In early August the walnuts are young and soft and 
are just right for this use. Take one hundred walnuts, 
slightly bruise them, and put them into a crock with a quart 
of vinegar and a handful of salt. Let them stand for a 
week, stirring them daily. Then drain off the liquor and 
boil it with a quarter ounce each of mace, nutmeg, cloves, 
and whole black peppercorns; a small piece of horseradish, 
twenty shalots, a quarter pound of anchovies; boil for a 
half hour, then bottle, cork, and seal. 



INVALID COOKERY 

The art of invalid cookery seems to be one that is woe- 
fully neglected, and when the need arises for its use, even in 
a slight degree, it seems to puzzle most people to decide 
what to get or how to cook the article. Little and often is 
the way to feed most convalescents, and to keep things both 
palatable and nourishing at the same time takes considerable 
intelligent thought. 

The fruits allowable usually are the baked apples and 
stewed prunes, white grapes seeded, cut in half, and dropped 
on cracked ice. The fresh orange pulp freed from all skin or 
the grapefruit pulp treated in the same way make a drink 
as well as food. 

For the Sick Room 

Eggs must be absolutely beyond reproach for use in the 
sick room. They may be used in eggnog, sherry and egg, 
soft boiled, or the white delicately poached. The yolk being 
the fat of the egg, is not always considered light enough for 
the invalid stomach. The white dropped into a glass of ice 
water, but not stirred, and fed spoon by spoon is a favorite 
way, especially for children. It is well never to make things 
in large quantity, for the invalid appetite is so capricious 
that it may weary of a delicacy after one taste. 

Modem science has put into jars, bottles, and cans all 
manner of broths and dainties, but the things that are really 
best appreciated are the little things that are made at home. 
Everything that goes to the invalid should be as dainty as 
possible, and be removed as soon as the invalid is finished 

555 



55^ Invalid CooKery 

with it. Broths are always a standby, and possibly the 
following recipes may aid the inexperienced in preparing 
them. 

Clam Broth 

Wash twenty-five round clams and cover them with half a 
cup of cold water, cover and let slowly come to a boil. When 
all are steamed open, strain ofE the liquor and it is ready 
for use. It may be hot or chilled. The clams can be put 
into a cream dressing and served as a luncheon dish for the 
well ones of the family. In this way nothing goes to waste. 

Chicken Broth 

Take one fresh fowl, prepared and jointed carefully, 
and place it in a kettle with one quart of water. Simmer 
gently, skimming carefully until the meat leaves the bones. 
Remove the meat and add juice of a tiny onion, one stalk of 
celery, pepper, salt, and the bones. Simmer half an hour, 
strain, and when cold remove all grease and it is ready to use 
as needed. Rice may be boiled and a teaspoon added as it 
is needed; if it is not all used at once it is apt to sour. 

Mutton Broth 

One pound of the scrag end of the neck of mutton is needed 
for this, and two pints of water, salt, and pepper. Skim 
carefully, let cook one hour, strain, and cool. When cold 
remove every particle of fat and it is ready for use. Pearl 
barley may be boiled in fair water and added as it is needed, 
if it is liked. 

Gruels 

Com meal, arrowroot, and rice gruel are all made in the 
same way by mixing two tablespoons of meal in cold water 
and simmering gently an hour or more, straining and add- 
ing a gill of cream and a tiny bit of butter. 



Invalid CooKery 557 

FOOD HINTS 

Clam, oyster, and eel broths are all nourishing and refresh- 
ing if the patient likes them. 

In reheating broths only heat as much as the patient needs 
at one time; never heat a second time the same broth. 

Breads for the invalid's use should be "pulled" or toasted 
and stale. 

Daintily broiled chicken, steak, lamb chops, squab, quail, 
oysters, and sweetbreads are among the best of fare for 
invalids. Boiled tripe, calves' liver, and frogs' legs are easily 
digested. 

Wine Jelly 

Soak in half a pint of cold water one box of gelatine; put 
with one pint of sherry, one pint of sugar, one pint of water, 
one clove, the rind of one lemon, and the beaten whites of two 
eggs in a saucepan over the fire, stir for ten minutes and 
when it bubbles move' back but keep at boiling point for 
half an hour ; strain into molds and put on ice. 

Invalids' JeUy 

Soak and scrub twelve shanks of mutton in cold water, 
put them with one pound of lean beef, three quarts of 
water, one onion, a bunch of sweet herbs, pepper, salt, bay 
leaf, one clove, a slice of toast, and two blades of mace into a 
stewpan, and simmer for five hours. Strain and when cold 
remove all grease. Use part as jelly and part as soup, heat- 
ing and adding a little macaroni that has been boiled. 

Orange Jelly 

Dissolve one half box of gelatine in half a cup of cold 
water; take the pulp arid juice of six oranges and two lemons 
and one cup of sugar; stir all together and add one cup 
of boiling water, stir well, strain into molds and chill. 
Lemon and pineapple jellies may be made in the same way, 
only add a dash of rum to the pineapple. 



558 Invalid CooKery 

Stewed Calf's Foot 

Carefully clean a calf's foot and stew three hours in a 
pint of milk and a pint of water, with the rind of half a lemon, 
one blade of mace, one minced onion, pepper, and salt. Just 
before serving, remove meat from bones and add half a 
cup of cream. Serve with sippets of toast. 

Fresh Codfish 

Boil a two-pound piece of fresh cod twenty minutes, 
remove all skin and bones, lightly shred with a silver fork, 
make a rich cream sauce, pour over the fish, and serve 
on toast. 

Stewed Cutlet 

Have the cutlet cut from the loin or ribs of mutton, 
removing all fat. Put in a stewpan with two cups of 
water, a stalk of celery cut fine, half an onion minced, and 
stew two hours, skimming all fat that rises to the surface. 
Take out the cutlet, strain the gravy over it, and serve hot. 

Asparagus Pudding 

Wash and boil one bunch of green asparagus twenty 
minutes. Cut the green heads from the stalks, beat four 
eggs into one cup of milk, add half a cup of cracker crumbs 
mixed with two tablespoons of flour, one ounce of butter, 
half a cup of the asparagus water, salt, and pepper; put in a 
baking dish and bake half an hour or until brown. 

NOURISHING DRINKS 

If cups or tumblers "slop over" their contents are unin- 
viting; the rims of cups and glasses should be absolutely dry 
and the saucers dry also. Straws are often a comfort, as 
well as the drinking "ducks" and short-handled spoons. Ice 
should never be put into the invalid's glass, but things to be 



Invalid CooKery 559 

served cold should be chilled before serving. Here are some 
nourishing or cooling liquid foods and beverages, as they are 
best prepared for invalids. 

Nourishing Lemonade 

One and a half pints of boiling water, the juice of four 
lemons, the rinds of two, half a pint of sherry, four eggs, six 
ounces of loaf sugar. Pare thinly the rinds of two lemons, 
put in a jug with the sugar, and turn over the hot water; 
let it cool, then add the wine, lemon juice, and beaten eggs; 
mix well, straiii, and set away to cool. 

Egg Wine 

One egg, one glass of sherry, sugar, and grated nutmeg to 
taste. Beat the egg with a tablespoon of water; mix the 
wine and half a glass of water and heat it, but do not let it 
boil; pour over the egg, stirring all the time; add the sugar 
and the nutmeg; place on gentle fire in a clean pan and stir 
one way until it thickens; do not boil it. Serve in a glass 
with crisp wafers. 

Barley Gruel 

Two ounces of pearl barley, half a pint of port, the rind 
of one lemon, sugar to taste. Wash the barley well and boil 
it in half a pint of water a quarter of an hour; strain off 
the water and add a quart of boiling water; let boil until re- 
duced to one half; strain and add the wine, sugar, and lemon 
peel; simmer five minutes, then strain into a clean jug and put 
away to cool. It may be warmed as needed, or served cold. 

Toast Water 

over one slice of carefully made toast pour one quart of 
boiling water, let cool and strain, and it is ready for use. 
For a very delicate person or a child the white of an egg 
broken into a glass of toast water, not stirred or beaten, is 
very nourishing. 



56o Invalid CooKery 

Pineapple Fizz 

To the juice of one pineapple add four tablespoons of 
powdered sugar and the juice of one lemon, chill on ice ; to a 
quarter of a glass of the mixture add vichy to fill the glass. 
A most refreshing drink. Vichy may also be used with milk. 

Milk punch and eggnog are excellent if the milk is rich 
and the eggs are fresh. Cold consomm^ is a good standby 
if well made, and a little good sherry is added just before 
serving. Mulled wine, if served very hot and spicy and 
made with strained honey instead of sugar, is the influenza 
drink par excellence. 

Wine Whey 

Scald one cup of milk, add one cup of wine, cook gently 
imtil it wheys; strain through cheese cloth ; chill, and serve. 

Com Meal Gruel 

Mix one tablespoon of yellow corn meal, half a teaspoon 
of salt, and two tablespoons of cold water; simmer gently 
for one hovir. In the serving bowl put two tablespoons of 
rich cream and one lump of sugar; strain in the gruel, stir, 
and serve. Arrowroot gruel is made the same way, only 
cooked ten minutes instead of an hour. 

Nutritious Coffee 

Grind half an ounce of good coffee, and add it to one pint 
of hot milk; boil three minutes, add one well beaten egg; 
strain into cup containing one lump of sugar. 

Tea 

If tea is used, be sure that it is infused with fresh water 
that has just come to a boil; never boil tea; never let it 
stand more than three minutes on the leaves and never 
warm it over. The best way is to pour it off into a second 
hot teapot, in which it may be kept hot as long as desired. 



Invalid CooKery 561 

FOR RHEUMATIC DIETS 

(Menus are offered from which suggestions may be culled 
to plan other meals for persons so afflicted) 

Breeikfast 

Baked Apple and Cream 

Farina 

Whites of Eggs, Poached on Toast ; Strips of Crisp Bacon 

Cocoa 

It is well for people past middle life who are troubled with 
rheumatism to drink plenty of pure water. A large cup of 
either cold or warm lithia water taken before breakfast is 
often advised. The apples — large, juicy ones — should be 
baked till soft, though not mushy, and dusted lightly with 
sugar. 

Be sure that the cereal is thoroughly cooked and serve 
it hot or jellied with cream. 

A little crisp bacon is allowed, while other pork products 
are barred. Avoid the use of the yolks of the eggs, but 
poach the whites and serve them on slices of whole wheat 
bread toasted and buttered with sweet butter. Make 
the cocoa with part milk and part water, using saccharine 
tablets to sweeten it. 

Ltmcheon 

Chicken Consomm^, Toast Fingers 

Creamed Codfish. Boiled Asparagus 

Boiled Rice and Apple Jelly 

Milk, Cold or Hot 

Chicken consommd, made in the usual way, should be 
served hot. Have the toast fingers well dried and serve 
without butter. 

Thicken the cream for the cold flaked boiled cod with 
butter and flour rubbed to a smooth paste. • Serve the boiled 
asparagus on toast with a little butter, salt, and pepper. 

30 



562 Invalid CooKery 

The rice should be boiled till quite soft. Add a little 
fresh butter and salt to it and a little cream, if desired. 
A dessertspoon of apple jelly will add to the attractiveness. 
Milk, hot or cold, may be served, or any of the good table 
waters, though it is best for the patient to drink as little as 
possible during meals. 

Dinner 

Green Pea Soup 
Broiled Chicken. Baked Potatoes. String Beans. Let- 
tuce Salad. Toasted Whole Wheat Crackers 
Prune Souffl6. Black Coffee 

One pint of green split peas well washed, two quarts cold 
water, three sliced onions, one thin slice of bacon with its 
rind for flavor are used for the soup. Cover tightly and 
cook several hours, mash through a pur^e sieve, season, 
and serve with toast squares. 

Be sure that the chickens for broiling are young and 
tender. Season them with butter, pepper, and salt and gar- 
nish with watercress. When the potatoes begin to shrivel in 
. the oven prick each one with a steel fork in two or three places 
to let out the gas. Boil the string beans after careful string- 
ing, drain thoroughly; season with butter, pepper, and salt. 

After carefully washing and drying the lettuce, serve with 
a dressing made of three tablespoons of olive oil to one of 
lemon juice, a dash of pepper and pinch of salt. Toast the 
whole wheat crackers and spread lightly with fresh butter 
or cover them with a little sour cream. 

Stone fresh stewed prunes that have been cooked without 
sugar. Chop enough to make one cup, add the whites of 
three well beaten eggs whipped light, and bake in lightly 
buttered baking dish until it puffs up. Serve hot or cold 
with cream. No sugar or milk is allowed with the coffee. 

Home Nursing 

There are many little points for those who are nursing in 



Invalid CooKery 563 

the home to know that are of the utmost importance for the 
comfort of the ill, besides the preparation of the invalid's 
tray and the food that goes on it. 

The absolute cleanliness of the room is a necessity, 
prompt removal of soiled dishes and glasses, empty bottles, 
soiled linen and fading flowers, while no strong odored 
fruits should be allowed to stand in the room a moment. 

Remember to shield the light from the patient day or 
night. Oil squeaking door hinges and soap the siils and 
edges if the door sticks. If a coal stoye is used put the 
coal in paper bags and put one on the fire when needed. , 

Gently, but firmly, restrict all friendly visits to fifteen 
minutes, If allowed at all, and suggest that the visitors intro- 
duce only pleasant topics into their conversation while 
they stay. 

Never stand over an invalid's bed and consult with an- 
other about food, or, in fact, anything that concerns him 
or her, for it makes the invalid nervous and irritable. It is 
enough to worry about those things when one is able to walk 
about, but on the flat of one's back it is torture. 

Realizing the great power of mind in these days the cheer- 
ful nurse is the only one to have — one who seems a tower of 
strength to the weak one. If asked to read the paper pick 
out the newsy bright articles, speak distinctly, and do not 
rattle the paper needlessly. 

When feeding invalids with a spoon sit close enough to do 
it deftly, so that they are not afraid of being choked or 
drenched by its contents. 

When the patient is ready for the night let the nurse be 
ready for quiet also and not fidget around until the patient 
is wide-awake and nervous. 

Never startle an ill person by coming from behind him; 
always come toward him, and speak naturally and quietly 
lest he grow confused as to one's identity. It worries 
the weak to keep clearly the persons in mind about them 
if there are a number coming and going. 

Do not attempt to stir a patient into a lively sense of 



564 Invalid CooKery 

gratitude for flowers, fruit, and so on sent by friends, but 
keep the cards, as it is amusing to answer them during 
the convalescent period. 

Bells, clocks, pianos, or any noise that annoys should be 
guarded against. 

The advent of the tray is always an interesting event in 
the patient's day and to prepare it is a great art. It must 
be exquisitely dainty so that it seems appetizing, and small 
portions only served at a time lest the sight of too much 
turn the patient's desire. 



RECOMMENDED CHILDREN'S DIETS 

•Here is the ideal diet for a child from eighteen months to 
two years: 

Breakfast 

Juice of one sweet orange, one half hour before eating; 
cereal with top milk, glass of milk, and bread and butter. 
Cream of wheat, farina, oatmeal or hominy preparations 
well cooked will do. The bread should be at least a day old 
and the butter sweet. 

Forenoon 

A glass of milk with two toasted biscuits, graham crackers, 
or zwieback. 

Dinner 

Soup or broth thickened with peas, sago, or rice, or vege- 
table soup with yolk of egg, or soft boiled egg with bread 
crumbs, and a glass of milk. Plain puddings, like rice, 
bread, tapioca, blanc-mange, junket, or custard. 

Beef juice with breadcrumbs is often used instead of the 
soups, eggs, or broths. Apple sauce and prune pulp may 
be used instead of the puddings. The total amount of milk 
the child should have during the twenty-four hours is one 
and a half quarts. 

The beef juice is easily extracted by means of any of the 
simple squeezers after the beef has been slightly wanned to 
start the juice flowing. 

565 



566 Recommended CKildren's Diets 

The yolk of egg is added to the clear vegetable soup to 
give it body, and the vegetables should be the best and 
freshest that can be procured. 

Supper 

A glass of milk, warm or cold, zwieback, and custard or 
stewed fruit. This is a light meal, for bedtime follows 
close upon it and a sleepy baby is not apt to be a hungry 
baby, so it does not demand either quantity or variety. 

A good diet for a child from two to three years old: 

Breakfast 

Juice of one sweet orange. Farina with top milk (sixteen 
ounces) or a soft boiled egg and toast. Glass of milk. 

If the orange is not available or the child likes a change, 
one ounce of pineapple juice (fresh or canned) or the 
pulp of six stewed prunes or apple given a half hour before 
breakfast. 

Dinner 

Chicken soup, or mutton or beef broth thickened with 
arrowroot, split peas, or rice. Scraped beef or white meat of 
chicken, or baked potato and fresh peas. Rice pudding. 

Broiled fish may be used as a change from the chicken 
meat or the scraped beef. Spinach or carrots may be used 
instead of peas, but all must be carefully cooked. Baked 
apple, apple sauce, junket, or custard may be offered to 
vary the pudding. 

Supper 

Cream of wheat, or egg with toast. Stewed fruit. 
Bread and milk, bread and cocoa, or bread and custard 
may be used in turn, for breakfast. 

A sample menu for the child from three to five years old, 
approved by the New York City Board of Health: 



Recommended Children's Diets 567 

Breakfast 

Stewed prunes. 

Boiled hominy, cream, and sugar. 

Soft boiled egg, toast, cocoa. 

The more rigorously the diet for the child from three to six 
years is governed the more freedom there will be from the 
usual childish disorders. The prunes should be stewed ab- 
solutely tender, and but a very small amount of sugar added 
to them. The hominy must be well cooked and salted, and 
only a small amount of sugar and thin cream used over it. 

The egg, soft boiled, and the toast, carefully made and 
lightly buttered with fresh butter, or pulled bread, if the 
child is tired of toast, must be served immediately that they 
are ready. The cocoa may be made with half milk, half 
water, if the child is inclined to be of a bilious temperament ; 
otherwise all milk and as little sugar as will content the 
child's sweet taste should be used. 

Dinner 

Beef soup, toast fingers. 

Lamb chops, broiled; baked potato, string beans. 

Fresh lettuce. 

Rice pudding. 

The beef soup that has been made with the vegetables 
should be allowed to stand and get cold, so that the grease 
may be taken from the top. Then heat only enough with 
the vegetables for the child's one plate. Have the toast 
fingers dry and crisp. 

Broil the chops delicately, sprinkle with salt, and add 
a little fresh butter. Remove the baked potato from the 
skin, mash lightly with a fork, add a little fresh butter and 
salt and a few drops of cream. See that the beans have been 
carefully strung and well boiled in fair water ; do not add any 
seasoning until they are drained, and then only a little fresh 
butter and salt. 

Wash thoroughly fresh, crisp lettuce leaves; take a table- 



568 Recommended CHildren's Diets 

spoon of olive oil, salt, and the juice of a lemon and sprinkle 
lightly over the salad. This dressing will be enough for two 
days. No vinegar or pepper should be used for a child of 
this age. Remember the taste is not sufficiently cultivated 
to miss it, and the little stomach will be much better ofiE 
without it. 

The rice pudding should be made creamy and soft, and 
there is no objection to having a few large seeded raisins in 
it. It may be served hot or cold, as the child likes it best. 
If possible, do not offer anything to drink with this meal, but 
if it is demanded use a little cool, but not iced, spring water. 

Supper 

Milk toast. 

Stewed fruit, custaird. 

Glass of milk. 

Cut the crusts off, toast the bread slices evenly, and lay 
them in the dish; heat a pint of fresh milk, add a pinch of 
salt and sugar, a small lump of butter. Thicken slightly 
with a little cornstarch, if the child prefers; turn it over the 
toast and serve immediately. 

The stewed fruit may be of any kind which the child 
fancies, with a little light cream over it. A cup custard or 
a dish of plain boiled custard that has been chilled makes a 
most satisfactory dessert. 

As children usually rise early, it is a long time from their 
breakfast to the i o'clock luncheon hour, so at half past ten 
it is better to let them have a thin jelly sandwich and a glass 
of milk. Again at about three is an excellent time for some 
home-made cookies and a glass of the juice of some fresh 
fruit. 

Five Meals Served a Day 

The half past five dinner will make five times that the 
child has been fed since seven, but with so much judgment 
and understanding that he has had just enough to eat. 



Recommended CHildren's Diets 569 

and comfortably clothed and allowed the proper afeiount 
of bathing and sleep he should thrive. 

Though it may startle some women, it is generally 
acknowledged that ice cream is one of the best and most 
healthful things a child can eat, that is, if it is made of pure 
cream and sugar, flavored delicately with the soft inside 
part of the vanilla bean. As much flavoring as can rest on 
the point of a small knife will flavor a whole quart of cream. 

As to cake, the lightest of sponge cake, with or without 
jelly, gingerbread, zweiback, and home-made cookies fur- 
nish quite a sufficient variety. 

Too much cannot be said against cheap candy. The ex- 
posure of its frightful adulterations ought to frighten even 
the most careless mother and to have broken the pernicious 
"penny" habit. 

The best is the cheapest in the end and the wise mother 
will buy the best she can find. Clear, hard candy is very 
good and should be given to the child little by little as he 
may crave for it. 

Irritability will not be found manifested to any great 
extent in a child who is systematically cared for, whose 
stomach is satisfied, who has plenty of sleep and enough air, 
and who is gently directed rather than forced into the way 
he should go. 

Simple Menus the Best 

These menus will be helpful for the mother to start with: 

BREAKFAST — 7 A.M. 

Moulded Cereal (Gluten), with Prunes and Cream 

Soft Boiled Eggs, Buttered Toast 

Cocoa 

WEE BITE — 16.30 A.M. 

Currant Jelly Sandwich and Glass of Milk 



570 Recommended CHildren's Diets 

LUNCHEON — I P.M. 

Bouillon, Toast Fingers 
Broiled Lamb Chops, Baked Potato 
Lettuce, Simple Dressing 
Tapioca Pudding 

WEE BITE — 3 P.M. 

Cookies and Fruit Jidce Drink 

DINNER — 5.30 P.M. 

Creamed Chicken on Toast 
Baked Custard. Zweiback. Milk 

No fried food or hot bread is considered good for a child to 
eat. He should be fed whole wheat bread a day old, white 
bread toasted; graham and brown bread occasionally for 
variety, and a few of the crackers which the market offers. 

A child seems naturally fond of unsalted butter, and it is 
better for him than the salted. 

The Right Salad Dressing 

For the various lettuces which are good for the child a 
dressing may be made of a few drops of olive oil, salt, and 
lemon juice, or a light mayonnaise dressing, made without 
mustard, if the child likes it. Oil is excellent for the health 
if used freely, but had best be dropped if disliked, a point for 
the mother to watch and decide upon herself, as no rule will 
work in all cases. 

General Feeding 

Whites of eggs poached are delicate and often liked, where 
the yolk will be refused. All well cooked vegetables 
simply dressed may be added in turn to the simple menu. 
A little rare roast beef and now and then a tender steak at 
noonday, roast lamb and chicken cooked in different ways 
are always well liked by children. Cream vegetable soups, 



Recommended Children's Diets 571 

clam and oyster broth, broiled fresh fish or baked blue- 
fish and potatoes, baked or creamed, are good and whole- 
some. There is nothing more easily digested than stewed 
tripe or creamed sweetbreads, if the child likes them. 
Broiled squab is another favorite with almost all children. 

CHILDREN'S FAVORITE DISHES 

Of course, there are always things that wise mothers 
think that their children should eat whether they like them or 
not, simply because tradition and the family doctor say so; 
but the more modern idea is that the food that is not 
taken with a relish because it tastes good does not nourish 
the system or gratify the small person in any way. Chil- 
dren's tastes, though simpler than grown people's, are just 
as decided, and their loathings and likes are just as pro- 
nounced. It is said that the taste changes every seven 
years; and in that case why worry? The child who refuses 
to eat eggs, fruit, or fish to-day will turn to them when he 
feels the need for them, or in some way the taste is aroused 
for them. 

There seems to be an almost universal liking for sweets 
among normal children, and the only difiiculty is to turn 
this liking into the safest channels. Milk and cocoa seem 
to be the favorite beverages, with lemonade or orangeade 
for a cold drink. Ice cream is usually popular, especially 
vanilla and chocolate. Fish, strong flavored vegetables, 
highly seasoned meats, or very rich salads are rarely liked by 
children. The recipes given are for a few general favorites, 
and the little menu is good for a children's luncheon party. 

Menu 

Chicken Bouillon. Finger Rolls 

French Chops. Peas. Mashed Potatoes 

Fruit Salad 

Vanilla Ice Cream. Sponge Cake 

Cocoa 



572 Recomtnended CKildren's Diets 

The bouillon may be served hot or cold, the chops deli- 
cately broiled and the peas served around them, and the 
mashed potato should be beaten up very light and creamy. 
The fruit salad may be made with a good mayonnaise 
made without mustard, or with a creamy boiled dressing 
which is allowed to cool before using it on the salad. The 
ice cream is the best ever if made at home, the real boiled 
custard sort being immensely popular with the little people, 
while sponge cake, lady fingers, and the cooky family seem 
to be proprietary dainties of childhood. 

Rice Soup 

Throw four ounces of well washed Patna rice into boiling 
water and let it boil five minutes. Then pour into a sieve 
and allow it to drain well. Then add it to two quarts of boil- 
ing white stock. Add salt, pepper, and a pinch of mace. 
Just before it goes to table put a few spoons of whipped 
cream over the top and serve with toasted bread sippets. 

Tapioca, though best known associated with pudding 
history, is a most excellent soup medium as well. It is 
made from the pith of the cassava tree, native to the East 
Indies and Brazil. Its nutritive properties are great and 
especially adapted to delicate digestions. 

Tapioca Soup 

Put five ounces of tapioca into two quarts of cold white 
stock and bring it gradually to a boil. Simmer for an hour 
or longer until it is tender. Season to taste, and just before 
serving add a wineglass of good sherry and serve with dry 
toast fingers. 

In using chops for the nursery folks the lamb chops 
delicately broiled are the only sort used. The small Ham- 
burg steaks or meat cakes for the older children should be 
made, after the steak has been properly chopped, into small 
cakes thicker at the edges than in the center that they 
may cook through more thoroughly. They are of course 



Recoinmended CKildren's Diets 573 

broiled. Fresh and stewed fruits are highly recommended, 
and plenty of lettuce dressed with a French dressing made 
with lemon juice instead of vinegar, or eaten with salt. 

There is nothing more unhappy than a soggy baked 
potato, or anything nicer than one that is rightly cooked. 
After washing the potato, and removing the eyes if it is an 
old one, place it on the oven rack when the oven is advancing 
in heat, and after a few minutes turn it over so that it bakes 
evenly, trying to avoid its bursting if possible. This hap- 
pens of course when the starch begins to swell and the 
skin tightens under the pressure. When the potato feels 
soft and done remove it with a cloth and gently press it all 
over so as to loosen all the potato from the shell, then when 
it is broken open the steam rushes out, and the potato is 
light and mealy. The layer nearest the skin is where the 
starch lies and this is what makes the skin of the baked 
potato so good to eat. 

Creamed Potatoes 

Boil six smooth potatoes until done, then dice them, make 
a rich cream sauce, add the potatoes long enough to warm 
through, and serve garnished with toast sippets and parsley. 

Cinnamon Toast 

Children who refuse the ordinary dry toast will like cin- 
namon toast, which is made by toasting slices of bread, 
buttering, and spreading with a mixture of one tablespoon of 
sugar to one half teaspoon of cinnamon. Serve it hot. 

Cream Toast 

All children like cream toast. To make it, melt in a double 
boiler a heaping tablespoon of butter, rub in smoothly a 
slightly rounding tablespoon of flour, and stir in slowly 
one cup of hot milk or thin cream, and a pinch of salt. 
Cook till creamy, stirring constantly. Place the hot, dry 



574 Recommended CHildren's Diets 

toast on a hot platter, pour the cream sauce over it, and 
serve very hot. 

Venetian Zwieback 

Take the yolks of four eggs and half a pound of sugar; 
beat together, add the beaten snow of four whites of eggs, 
with half a cup of cake flour, and bake in a small buttered 
pan. When baked and cool, cut in thin slices or fingers, 
spread on a baking sheet, and put in the cooling oven to dry. 
Delicious to serve with iced custards or preserves. 

CHILDREN'S DESSERTS 

Fresh fruits are the choice for the foundation of most 
of the desserts for children. Of these apples, peaches, and 
grapes are first choice, with bananas and oranges next, and 
stewed fruits following. Pears are not good for the younger 
children, because they ferment in the stomach. Fruit 
souffles should be avoided because eggs cooked in this form 
are apt to be indigestible for small stomachs. 

If children can be taught to lightly sprinkle their bananas 
with salt they will be easier digested than with sugar and 
cream. Here are some ways in which fruit can be prepared 
for children. 

Jellied Grapes 

Wash two bunches of grapes, then plunge them into boil- 
ing water for half a minute. Remove skins and seeds, 
leaving a cup of pulp. Make a syrup of half a cup of sugar 
and a cup of water, add grapes and a tablespoon of Cox's 
gelatine that has soaked in cold water. Let thoroughly 
melt and boil up, then turn into a mold. 

Apple Custard 

Make a good custard, turn into a mold to chill. Dice 
one large ripe apple and boil it in clear water a few minutes. 



Recommended CHildren's Diets 575 

— do not let the dice lose their shape, — drain, and when 
cold put on top of the custard and cover with whipped 
cream. 

Rice and Peaches 

Take boiled rice and place an inch deep in the mold. 
Pare, halve, and boil ripe peaches ten minutes in vanilla 
syrup, then place on a wire sieve to drain. When cold lay 
on the molded rice and cover with whipped cream. 

Macedoine Fruit 

To a cup and a half of vanilla syrup add a cup of cut 
peaches, sliced banana, a few seeded grapes, six half apri- 
cots. Boil ten minutes, then add a tablespoon of gelatine 
that has soaked in water, let melt, and boil up; then mold. 
Serve with sponge cake but no cream. 

Nutted Prunes 

Stew large prunes the usual way. When cold remove 
the stones carefully, placing a blanched almond in each 
cavity. Pile on sauce plates and serve with sweet cream 
and sponge cakes. 

Apple Tapioca 

Core and bake large ripe apples, filling the center with 
sugar. When cold have ready some boiled pearl tapioca, 
which should be seasoned with sugar and vanilla. Coat 
the apples with it and set away to chill. Serve with or 
without whipped cream as the child best likes it. A lemon 
sauce is sometimes used made of a cup of water to three 
quarters of a cup of sugar boiled until it is like syrup and 
then adding the juice of a lemon. 

Peaches Bavaroise 

Peel and halve six ripe peaches and boil in vanilla syrup 
until they are tender, then drain on wire sieve. Boil a 



57^ Recommended CKildren's Diets 

quarter of a pint of milk, add beaten yolks of two eggs, 
return to fire, and cook long enough to slightly bind the 
eggs. Add two tablespoons of sugar and four leaves of 
gelatine that has soaked in cold water, mix well until all 
is melted, then strain into a bowl. When the custard 
is cool add a quarter of a pint of whipped cream. Dice a 
slice of pineapple, halve and stone a handful of cherries, 
flavor with a tablespoon of maraschino, and add to the 
custard. Pour it into a deep dish to set. When cold place 
the peaches in a ring on the top, with a cup of whipped 
cream in the center, and serve with apricot syrup. 

Molded Prunes 

Boil a pound of large French prunes. When cool stone 
them and slip in a blanched almond in place of the stone. 
Make a good wine sauce, arrange in a mold with the prunes, 
put in a cold place to set and chill. Make a boiled custard, 
using the whites of the eggs to make the kisses to put over 
the top. Chill this also, and when ready to serve place the 
jelly on a plate and pour the custard around it, putting 
three of the kisses on top as decoration. 

Prune Souffle 

The souffld may be made by stoning a cup and a half 
of stewed prunes and chopping them fine. Add the beaten 
whites of four eggs, two teaspoons of powdered sugar, whip 
very light, and turn into a pudding dish which has been 
very slightly greased. Bake until it puflEs up, then remove 
from the oven and serve with whipped cream. 

Apple Float 

Beat till stiff the whites of two eggs, add sugar, and mix 
lightly with two cups of very smooth apple sauce; set away 
to chill. Make a smooth custard and chill that also; then 
place the apple mixture in the center of the dish and turn 
the custard around it. 



Secommenclecl CKildren's Diets 577 

CMdren's Pudding 

A Christmas pudding for children has the following 
ingredients : 

One pound of flour, one pound of bread crumbs, three 
quarters of a pound of stoned raisins, three quarters of a 
pound of currants carefully washed, three quarters of a 
pound of finely chopped suet, two ounces of candied peel 
chopped, one teaspoon of powdered allspice, half a salt- 
spoon of salt, and a teaspoon of vanilla. Beat well together, 
adding sufficient milk to make it of the right consistency. 
Cover it with a floured cloth and boil for at least five hours. 
Serve with a hard sauce flavored with vanilla, and garnish 
with holly. 

Children's Vanilla Cream 

One quart of pure cream, a half cup of sugar that has been 
melted with a tablespoon of hot water and allowed to cool ; 
scrape from the inside of the vanilla bean as much of the 
soft center as would fill half a saltspoon, add it to the mix- 
ture, and freeze. If this cream is to be used for an invalid, 
the sugar is left out entirely, and it thereby makes the 
purest cream known and most nourishing. 

French Peach Cream 

Take two quarts of ripe peaches, or a dozen good sized 
peaches, pare, cut fine, and sprinkle with one pint of sugar. 
Stand in a cool place one hour; then add one quart of cream 
and freeze. When almost hard, add the whites of two 
stiffly beaten eggs, beat well, pack in individual molds, 
and lay in salt and ice until needed. If the cream is to 
be left in the large mold, cover and leave to ripen until 
needed. 

Biscuit Glace 

To one and a half pints of cream add the beaten yolks 
of eight eggs, twelve ounces of sugar and one tablespoon 
37 



578 Recommended CHildren's Diets 

of extract of vanilla. Place on the stove and stir the mix- 
ture until it begins to thicken, then strain through a sieve 
into the freezer. When nearly frozen, mix in six ounces 
of crisp macaroons that have been rolled to a powder, and 
a teaspoon of vanilla flavoring. Cover tightly, finish freez- 
ing, and let ripen until needed. 

SIMPLE CAKES FOR CHILDREN 

Who is there that cannot recall the fascinating odor 
which floated from the old-fashioned kitchen on baking 
days; when not one only but a round half dozen of pies were 
baked in the oven at once, then drawn out with a "peel" 
to rest and cool on the pantry shelves? In those days 
when asked about the day's baking the cook would say 
that she had made a "sheet" of sponge cake, a "crock " of 
doughnuts, a "card" of gingerbread, a "square" of pound 
cake, and a "baking" of seed cakes. Just a few of the old 
recipes may prove of value to modern mothers. 

Sponge Cake 

Break one dozen eggs into a large mixing bowl without 
separating, and add two cups of powdered sugar. Set 
this into a pan of boiling water and keep near the front of the 
range where it will stay at the same temperature. Beat 
with an egg-beater one half hour, then remove from the 
range and stir in the grated rind and juice of one lemon, and 
a cup of flour; pour into buttered chimney pans and bake 
in a moderate oven. Test with a broom splint and when 
done invert the pans and let cool before removing the cake. 

Berwick Sponge Cake 

Beat the yolks of six eggs very light with three cups of 
powdered sugar, add four cups of flour sifted three times, 
one teaspoon of soda, two of cream tartar, juice of half a 
lemon, then fold in the stifiiy beaten whites of the six eggs and 
last of all add one cup of cold water. Bake in a quick oven. 



Recommended CKildren's Diets 579 
Soft Gingerbread 

Two cups of sifted flour and one and a half teaspoons of 
baking powder; sift this into one cup of molasses, a half 
cup of sugar, a half cup of sweet milk, a half cup of butter, 
and two eggs; mix thoroughly and add one level tablespoon 
of ground ginger, one teaspoon of allspice, and a little 
nutmeg. Bake in a lightly buttered shallow pan. 

Favorite Cookies 

Cream two cups of sugar with one cup of butter, two 
well beaten eggs, three quarters of a cup of milk, a pinch of 
salt, five cups of sifted flotir, and a heaping teaspoon of bak- 
ing powder. Mix thoroughly, roll out thinly, cut in fancy 
shapes, and bake in buttered tin in a quick oven. 

Crullers 

A cup and a half of sugar, two tablespoons of butter, 
three eggs, a large cup of rich milk, three cups of flour, 
two teaspoons of baking powder and one of salt. • Cut 
into rounds with a hole in the center and fry in hot deep 
fat. When done drain and sprinkle with powdered sugar 
and pack away in a crock when cold. 

Seed Cookies 

Beat in a mixing bowl one egg, adding slowly one cup of 
granulated sugar, then one half cup of fresh milk, three 
and one half cups of flour, and one heaping teaspoon of bak- 
ing powder. Stir well and add a half cup of melted butter, 
and a heaping teaspoon of caraway or fennel seed. Beat 
well, then drop into a buttered dripping pan, smoothing it 
with the hand, sprinkle with sugar, and bake. When cold 
cut in small squares and pack in a covered crock to keep a 
bit moist. 



580 Recommended OHildren's Diets 
Ginger Snaps 

One half cup of butter, one cup of sugar, one cup of mo- 
lasses, one tablespoon of freshly ground ginger, two tea- 
spoons of baking powder, and flour enough to make a 
dough to roll, cut and bake. 

Jelly Sandwiches 

Make two layer cakes after the simple recipe of one 
small cup of butter, two cups of sugar, three cups of flour 
and four eggs, a teaspoon and a half of baking powder, tea- 
spoon of vanilla flavoring, and a cup of sweet milk. This 
amount will make three layers. When baked split two of 
the layers, then spread with good jam or jelly, put on the 
other layer, cut them into squares, and sprinkle with pow- 
dered sugar. Put in a cake box to keep moist. The other 
layer may be frosted and cut into squares for a plain cake. 



EASY RECIPES FOR THE LITTLE COOK 

Never has there been a little girl who did not like to cook 
or help with household tasks if she were given the least 
encotiragement, and especially if her mother would really 
use the things she cooked. 

Here are just a few dishes, easy and inexpensive, to start 
her recipe book, and, with a little patient supervision by 
mother or cook during the first making and a careful writing 
down of the recipe, surely the second attempt will be 
very easy and result in the perfect product. 

Simple Tomato Soup 

Turn one can of tomatoes and one can of water into a 
clean saucepan. Pare one carrot, one small turnip, one 
potato, wash them in cold water, cut them into dice, and put 
them into the saucepan. Take one stalk of celery, a little 
bunch of parsley, wash clean and chop fine and put into 
the soup. Next take one pound of top round steak (ask the 
butcher to cut it in little squares with his sharp knife), 
then add that, with a dash of pepper, a teaspoon of salt, and 
cover the saucepan. After the soup has boiled gently for 
half an hour, add a cup of hot water, then let it cook for 
another hour, then it is ready for luncheon. Meantime take 
two slices of bread and cut them into little squares, lay 
them on a clean tin plate, and slip them into the oven to dry 
and toast. They are fine to eat with the soup. 

Broiled Chops and Potatoes 

Lay six little chops on the gridiron and broil them over the 
coals. Turn first on one side, then on the other, until they 

581 



582 Easy Recipes for the Little CooK 

are done; then carefully lay them on a warm platter, putting 
a little butter, pepper, and salt on each one, and set them on 
the edge of the oven to wait. Pare and slice lengthways 
four cold boiled potatoes, take a little piece of buttered 
paper and grease the wires of the gridiron, then broil the 
potatoes just as the chops were broiled, only watch them 
carefully for they burn quickly. When they are done lay 
them around the chops, putting butter, pepper, and salt on 
each, and lay a few sprays of fresh crisp parsley on the dish 
where it looks the prettiest. 

Spring Salad 

Take all the white leaves of a nice crisp head of lettuce 
and wash them carefully ; line the salad bowl with the largest 
leaves, cut the rest in pieces with the kitchen scissors. 
Count two dozen bright red radishes, wash them carefully, 
cut off the tails and tops, and slice them thin; take one nice 
cucumber, pare and slice it very thin, mix all together and 
lay in the center of the salad dish. Now take three table- 
spoons of olive oil, just a little pepper, a saltspoon of salt, a 
tablespoon of tarragon vinegar, mix carefully and turn over 
the salad. Serve at once. 

Brown Betly Pudding 

Put into a chopping bowl enough stale bread so that when 
it is chopped up there will be two cups. Pare, quarter, and 
core enough apples to make a cup and a half when they 
are chopped fine, mix them with the bread and a cup of 
sugar, a grating of nutmeg, and turn them into a well but- 
tered baking dish. Bake until they are a delicate brown. 

Now for the pudding sauce, take one cup of sugar and a 
half cup of butter, let them stand where it is warm for a few 
minutes, then with a strong spoon carefully cream them to- 
gether. When they are all creamy and smooth add a half 
teaspoon of vanilla flavoring and a grating of nutmeg, pile 



Easy Recipes for tKe Little Cook 583 

in a little bowl, and put in a cool place until the pudding is 
done and ready to serve. 

Quick MuflSns 

One heaping cup of flour, three quarters of a teaspoon of 
baking powder, teaspoon of sugar, and a half teaspoon of 
salt. Mix all together and beat one egg in a cup of milk; 
mix this with the flour, then add enough plain milk to make 
a thick batter, — ^mother will tell you when it is just right. 
Butter little mufiin pans and fill them half full, then bake 
them about fifteen minutes, according to the oven. 

Jirnket 

Take one quart of milk and warm it but do not scald it. 
Add to it a teaspoon of Shinns liquid rennet, a half a cup of 
sugar, and a dessertspoon of vanilla flavoring. Turn into a 
mold and set aside in a cool place to firm. 



CHILDREN'S PARTIES 

For wee people early parties are considered best by 
thoughtfiil mothers, for then regular suppers and habits are 
not interfered with; so from 3 to 6 o'clock is the favorite 
time. The invitations are generally written by the mother, 
as hostess, but the children's party paper may be used if 
preferred. 

For children from six to ten years old the games chosen 
must be selected with an eye to keeping all amused at 
the same time. 

In many instances there is a Punch and Judy show, a 
prestidigitator, or an expert with a stereopticon or moving 
picture machine. Sometimes a woman professional plans 
and leads the games. Where this is not done, then the 
mother has to be the leading spirit. 

For a Dutch party the table centerpiece is a big windinill 
Jack Horner pie, filled with little gifts in toys and other 
reminders of Holland. The refreshments include a number 
of cakes and cookies made from Holland recipes, with 
real honey loaf sandwiches. The costumes are those fa- 
miliar to us in Dutch paintings. 

An appropriate fall party is a "Puritan party," to which 
the girls come in gray gowns and white kerchiefs, and the 
boys garbed like diminutive William Penns. The games 
for this party include a corn-shelling contest, winding yarn 
on spindles, and a number of old-fashioned games which 
are new to this generation. The refreshments are marble 
cake and doughnuts served with floating island. 

For older children there are travel parties which have a 
little educational note running through them. Animal 
parties are especially pleasing to boys, and they glory in 

584 



CKildren's Parties 585 

having on a dangerous animal headpiece which strikes terror 
to the hearts of little girls. For the centerpiece in this case 
an elephant is the " Pie " and the favors are stowed away ii;i 
the elaborate carrying saddle on his ample back. 

The salmagundi idea solves the difficulty of keeping all 
air-used at the same time. At each table, at which four 
children play, is a different game. There is a first and a 
second prize table, and the winners advance after each game. 
Parchesi, jackstraws, table baseball. Uncle Sam's mail, mixed 
pickles, puzzle building, electric questioner, and any of the 
new games that will be found in variety in the toy shops may 
be used. Then, after a game of blind man's buff, magical 
music, or "throw the handkerchief, " they will be glad to sit 
down for their refreshments, which should be ready at 4.45 
o'clock, so that they may have a little fun afterward with 
their mottoes and prizes before it is time to start for home. 

While the games are going on, if the children are thirsty 
it is a good idea to serve pure water with a light flavoring 
of natural fruit juice. Orange, lemon, pineapple, or grape 
juice will do nicely. 

Mother Goose or the vegetable place cards create much 
merriment, and with a huge Jack Horner pie for a center- 
piece and favors at each plate, the bonbon baskets, cake 
baskets, silver sandwich plates, plates and napkins, the 
necessary flat ware and glasses will be sufficient on the 
table. The favors should be of some slight value, so that 
they may be kept as souvenirs. 

There is nothing in the following simple menu suggested 
that can possibly upset the children, and the only harm it 
will do is to destroy the appetite for the simple dinner or tea 
when they get home. 

Menu 

Small Cups of Bouillon with Toast Fingers 

Breast of Chicken, Sandwiches, Cocoa 

Vanilla Ice Cream, Chocolate or Fruit Sauce 

Cake, Bonbons, Favors 



586 CHildren's Parties 

Make the bouillon in the usual way, adding a spoon of 
whipped cream as it is served and put a toast finger on 
each saucer. 

The sandwiches may have any of the various fillings that 
appeal to children. For instance, cream cheese, orange 
marmalade, minced chicken, minced tongue, chopped 
watercress and sweet butter, and finely minced roast beef 
with salt are all popular. 

The refreshments offered for the parties of younger 
children whose invitations read "from 3 to 5" are rather 
simple, and are served in buffet fashion. For those invited 
"from 4 to 7" it is best to seat the guests at the table 
and have a light dinner. If light refreshments only are 
served, they will probably be hungry when they return 
home. This is their regular supper time, and they will be 
unusually hungry with all the excitement. 

Buffet Menu 

Small Cups of Bouillon, with Toast Fingers 

Chicken Salad, Apple and Celery Salad, Fruit 

Salad 

Sandwiches, , Cocoa 

Vanilla Ice Cream, Choice of Sauces, Cake 

Bonbons, Fruit Favors 

The refreshments for the little ones should be served at 
four o'clock so as not to interfere with the dinner later on. 
Make the bouillon the usual way. Use a good deal of celery 
with the chicken salad, and make light mayonnaise without 
mustard. The same applies to the celery and apple salad. 
A little pineapple juice added to the dressing improves the 
flavor. The fruit salad, after it is chilled, may be dusted 
with sugar or a cold boiled dressing may be used. The 
sandwiches can be filled with varied fillings children like — 
cream cheese and orange marmalade, cream cheese with 
pur^e of chestnuts, minced chicken with mayonnaise, 
minced tongue with spinach mustard, chopped watercress 



Children's Parties 587 

and sweet butter, chopped banana with lemon juice and 
sugar. The breads may be varied, and whole wheat, rye, 
and gluten be used, cut thin and the crusts removed. Cut 
into fancy shapes before buttering. 

For small children the plain cakes, macaroons, and lady 
fingers are most wholesome. Bonbons will add all the 
extreme sweet that the feast demands. If fruit is served 
grapes and bananas will be least troublesome to small 
guests. 

Dinner Refreshments 

Chicken Bouillon, Whipped Cream 

Creamed Codfish Baked in Ramekins 

Chicken Croquettes, Peas, Creamed Sweetbreads 

Baked Potatoes, Rolls 

Lettuce, Cream Cheese, Walnut Salad 

Floating Island, Ice Cream 

Bonbons, Fruit 

Shred the codfish (cold boiled) and cream it, put it into 
buttered ramekins and bake. A choice of the croquettes 
and sweetbreads will be expressed by the small guests, but 
all love baked potatoes and little hot raised rolls, buttered 
with fresh butter. Take a package of cream cheese, add salt, 
a little pepper, a dash of sugar, and enough sweet cream to 
make a paste, work in a tablespoon of chopped walnuts, 
make into balls, sticking a half walnut on either side. 
Drop on lettuce leaves and make the mayonnaise with the 
walnut oil, instead of the olive oil, garnish with olives and 
rings of the whites of eggs, cold boiled. All young people are 
fond of floating island. Many prefer it to ice cream. After 
the rich, boiled custard is made, use the whites of four or 
six eggs, beaten stiff with a little sugar, then baked or rather 
browned a couple of minutes in the oven. They are more 
decorative and have more flavor than if they were raw. 

French vanilla cream is best to serve, and chocolate and 
strawberry sauces will be choice enough. 



588 CKildren's Parties 

The folding candy store is an English favor. When 
opened it stands upright, has a counter, and looks like a real 
store inside. Candy containers representing candy fruits, 
life size, are passed like the real thing, and candy charlotte 
russe, pie, and other desserts, are served like the real thing, 
on candy plates with a candy fork. This always creates 
much merriment. 

Paper favors come in great variety. The vegetables are 
very natural in appearance and each contains a little favor. 
A great, big red radish eighteen inches long contains eight 
favors, while a pineapple twenty-seven inches tall and large 
around in proportion contains sixteen gifts. 

Among other favors of interest are packages of Russian 
ninepins, Russian nested toys, toy wooden barrels with 
carved figures dancing on top and containing miniature tea 
sets; tiny hand-crocheted dolls in characteristic costumes, 
small accordions with a witch and a cat dancing on top, and 
black cats whose green eyes light electrically when their 
tail is pinched. 

jBaskets of all kinds to fill with candy include little market 
and lattadry baskets; tiny flower-trimmed hat boxes, 
ribbon-tied, contain one favor each. There are also flower 
pots of roses with each blossom holding a snap favor, and 
barnyard animal favors of aU descriptions. 

Dainty fairies are used for place cards, and are very airy 
and quite decorative. Chicken place cards are in high 
favor, and a wreath of roses with a fairy in the center, which 
hangs from the water glass, is most attractive. 



SCHOOL LUNCHEONS 

, With the beginning of the autumn school days, the 
mother's problem of what to put in the daily lunch-baskets 
of her children that will be at once nourishing, inviting, and 
simple to prepare, again confronts her. 

The putting-up of lunches Is, with a growing family, as 
endless a task, apparently, as the daily housework, yet it 
can be lightened a bit by a little consistent planning ahead, 
such as at an odd free moment sitting down, and, with paper 
and pencil in hand, mapping out a few general lunches, that 
may be varied as materials on hand may suggest, and it 
will be a wonderful help when the time comes. 

Boys want everything simple and quickly to be disposed 
of, so the folding lunch-box and a paper napkin are all they 
are willing to stand for, in the way of the decencies of life. 
Little girls, however, enjoy the modern baskets that are 
fitted up with the little white ware plate, cup, knife, fork, 
and spoon, and the milk bottle with the glass screwed on the 
top. The comfort quite compensates them for the trouble 
of packing up the dishes for the return trip. Of course, 
the paper napkins and wax paper are necessities and should 
be bought early in the season, in quantity. 

All home-made jams, jellies, and pickles are the most 
wholesome; and in making cake, the sponge cake, ginger- 
bread, raisin pound cake, and cookies will be found most 
acceptable. They will not be so quickly tired of, and are 
easier packed than the layer variety. 

The little individual puddings made in ramekins, such as 
rice, prune, tapioca, or custard, make an agreeable change 
and are quite popular. Sandwich bread should be at, least 

589 



590 ScKool LuncHeons 

one day old before using, so it must be ordered ahead of time. 
The butter must be soft enough to spread easily, but never 
should be melted. If it is wished to have the sandwiches 
richer than ordinary, add whipped cream to the butter and 
beat it lightly with a fork. 

Nuts, olives, bonbons, or home-made candy may be in 
turn the daily "surprise," and are welcome always to the 
child. Fruits of all kinds, lettuce, and all the green things 
that are to be had are healthy, and appetizing as well. 

Eggs must be used with discretion, and not too often, 
as they are apt to become distasteful, thus cutting off a 
valuable food product from the list. They may be deviled, 
hard-boiled, fried, or chopped in mayonnaise, for sandwich 
use. Tartlets or individual pies are great favorites, also, 
with children. Cream cheese and Swiss cheese are liked 
by most children, boys especially, and will not be objected 
to by sensible mothers as a one-time change used oc- 
casionally. 

If the joints of cold fowls are put in the lunch, wrap 
them in wax paper, and don't forget a little paper of pepper 
and salt mixed, to go with them. If cold boiled eggs are 
given, peel them and wrap them in wax paper the same way, 
for they keep perfectly fresh and are so much less trouble 
to the child. Now, the cold meat sandwiches should be 
thin, the meat sliced thin and evenly laid on, and the butter 
not too thickly spread; ham, lamb, tongue, rare beef, 
chicken, and turkey are all good for this kind of sandwiches. 

The minced fillings are also very popular with children, 
and may be varied by adding chopped nuts, olives, celery, 
peppers, or chow-chow with almost any kind of cold meat. 

If sardines, salmon, cold codfish, lobster, or crab meat is 
liked, add pepper, salt, and lemon juice, which is better than 
the richer dressings. The crisp fried bacon sandwich, or 
even the "frankfurter and roll," are not to be despised when 
in search for a hurry-up variety on a busy day. The 
adding of condiments to the fillings must be done accord- 
ing to what the mother thinks on the subject, as there 



ScHool L'UncHeons 591 

are a great many who feel prejudiced against highly seasoned 
food for children, so the sauces may be added or left as she 
thinks fit. 

Simple chicken salad, fruit salads, or vegetable salads 
are usually liked by children, and may be carried in the little 
paper pail, which when empty can be thrown away. Despite 
the newer things for luncheon purposes, the sandwich will 
also be called upon to do its duty, and may be invitingly 
varied by means of white, rye, whole wheat, raisin, brown, 
and gluten breads. The fillings are also legion from which 
to choose. 

Too great importance cannot be attached to fresh fruit, 
which it is almost always easy to procure, for even in the 
winter months bananas, oranges, and certain kinds of apples 
are plentiful and cheap. 

Do not forget that a little "surprise" for each day's 
luncheon always delights a child, no matter of what it may 
consist. 

Fish Fancy 

Shred one cup of boiled codfish and let it stand for twenty 
minutes in French dressing, to which the juice of one large 
onion has been added; then drain and add one hard-boiled 
egg and three olives chopped fine. Add enough mayonnaise 
to make a spreading paste, use whole-wheat bread cut in 
triangles, and serve with a spray of watercress on top. 



Vegetable Macedoine 

Take one bottle of macedoine vegetables and boil in fair 
water until done enough to mash. Then add juice of 
an onion, a half saltspoon of pepper, a saltspoon of salt, and 
a rounding teaspoon of butter. When cool, add a gill of 
whipped cream and beat to a paste. Lay upon rye bread, 
cut in heart shape. 



59^ ScHool LvincHeoiis 

Suiiprise Sandwich 

Put two cups of freshly stewed green peas through the 
purde sieve, add a teaspoon of butter, a half saltspoon of 
pepper and a saltspoon of salt, and a teaspoon of cream; 
let cool, then add two tablespoons of grated pineapple and 
if the mixture is not quite thin enough to spread, add a 
little cream. Use gluten bread cut in rounds. 

Ham and Chow-Chow 

Chop cold boiled ham very fine and chop one third as 
much chow-chow pickle; blend together and add a little 
of the mustard the pickles are put up in; use rye bread. 

Sweetbread and Chestnut Paste 

Parboil a pair of sweetbreads in slightly salted water. 
Cool, and chop fine, adding pepper and salt. Make from 
any reliable recipe a chestnut sauce. Add the sweetbreads 
and let cool in a small square mold. Slice thin and lay up 
with white bread, cut in rounds. 



SANDWICHES FOR ALL OCCASIONS 

Sandwich bread a day old, whole wheat- bread, and rye 
loaf are the best for sandwich use. Fresh beaten butter with 
a little whipped cream added is the next consideration. If 
the sandwiches are to be kept, place them in a damp linen 
cloth in a cool place; if to be packed and carried, wrap 
them in wax paper and place them in a tin box. i 

Be sure that all materials are at hand before beginning 
to make the sandwiches. Cutters for ordinary use are 
round, oblong, square, fish-tailed, and leaf-shaped. Those 
popular for card parties are in diamonds, hearts, clubs, and 
spades. Rolled and ribbon-tied sandwiches are also made. 

The bread-crusts, trimmings, and leftover odds and ends 
from sandwich making if thrown into a stewpan with a can 
of tomatoes and a bunch of savory herbs will make a good 
stock for sauces. 

Some of the new sandwiches have no cover. If they do, 
they often have a figure cut out of the cover and an olive, 
cherry, or a teaspoon of mayonnaise placed in the hole. 

If celery, lettuce, olives, peppers, or cress are to be used 
they should be allowed to chill before using. Tomatoes 
and fruit are also pared and chilled. 

Chicken livers, sweetbreads, chicken, or shellfish should 
be boiled and cooled before using. Mayonnaise dressing is 
best made heavy and must be cold. 

Now a word as to the use of brown bread. The slices 
should be cut thick and a loaf one day old is all right for 
ordinary use. Bread having a close grain and no raisins in 
it is the most satisfactory. 

Nuts should be blanched, and chopped or ground before 
38 593 



594 Sand-wicHes for all Occasions 

they are needed. Fish pastes can be made in the morning 
and are all the better for seasoning through. 

Tongue and Horseradish 

Mince finely one cup of fresh boiled tongue. Add to it a 
teaspoon of freshly grated horseradish, a few drops of tarra- 
gon, and enough whipped cream to make a spreading paste. 
Use whole wheat bread, cut in heart shape. 

Beef and Raisin Paste 

Take two slices of rare roast beef free from fiber and fat, 
seed four large raisins, three olives, one tiny stalk of celery, 
chop all together very fine. Add a few drops of onion juice, 
a saltspoon of pepper, a saltspoon of salt, and a teaspoon 
of English mustard. Mix all to a paste, spread lightly on 
buttered slice, lay over three or four sprays of watercress 
and the top slice. 

Spanish Paste 

Three olives, one red Spanish pepper, a chicken liver that 
has been boiled and cooled, a thin slice of boiled ham, minced 
all together very fine, and add one tablespoon of cream 
cheese, the juice of an onion, a half saltspoon of salt, and a 
saltspoon of pepper, and mix all into a smooth paste; if not 
quite moist enough add one spoon of whipped cream. Keep 
cool until ready for use, cut in diamond or triangle shapes, 
and garnish with cress. 

Oyster Sandwich 

Take a pint of oysters, drain, and let the liquor come to a 
boil. When it boils, drop in the oysters, let them stay until 
the beard curls, then remove from the fire and drain. Let 
the oysters get cold, but do not chill them. When ready 
to lay up the sandwiches, mix the oysters with heavy may- 
onnaise and lay fovir oysters on the sandwich square. 



Sand-wicHes for all Occasions 



595 



After laying on the top slice cut it square and garnish with 
cross strips of red pepper. 

Tuna Sandwich 

Flake a small can of tunafish, add a tablespoon of 
chopped watercress, and allow it to marinate in French 
dressing, to which the juice of an onion has been added. 
Drain carefully and lay on thinly spread rye rounds. Gar- 
nish with thin strips of red pepper. 

Minced Cold Roast Beef 

Mince the beef, then season with pepper, salt, a teaspoon 
of mustard sauce, and a teaspoon of chopped tarragon 
leaves. Lay upon rye bread. 

Hot Biscuit Chicken Mayonnaise 

Chop the breast of a chicken quite fine with six olives, a 
strip of pepper, and a tiny stalk of celery. Add mayonnaise 
to make a good paste and season to taste. Before doing 
this, make tiny raised biscuit, tear them apart, spread, and 
add the filling. Serve hot on a lettuce leaf. Sweetbreads 
are delicious used in the same way. 

Chicken Liver Sandwich 

Take the livers, gizzards, and hearts of three chickens 
that have been boiled tender and chop them very fine, add 
one stalk of celery, one gherkin, a strip of green pepper, 
three olives, and two tablespoons of walnut meats, all 
chopped fine. Then moisten one package of cream cheese 
with cream, add a saltspoon of pepper, a half teaspoon of 
salt, a tablespoon of chutney syrup and work all smoothly 
together, using as much sweet cream as is needed to make 
a good spreading paste. Lay up the sandwiches on white 
bread. 



59^ Sand-wicHes for all Occasions 

Chicken and Cress 

Take the dark meat of the chicken left from the salad, 
chop fine, add a saltspoon of pepper, a half teaspoon of salt, 
two tablespoons of chopped watercress and the juice of an 
onion; mix well, and when ready to make the sandwiches 
use rye bread and add heavy mayonnaise to make a spread- 
ing paste of the mixture. 

Sausage Surprise 

Fry some good sausage until a delicate brown. Drain 
and chop fine; then mix with enough smooth, tart apple 
sauce to make a paste. Add a saltspoon of salt and a half 
saltspoon of pepper and lay up with thinly sliced bread. 
Garnish with cress. 

Baked Bean Sandwich 

Take one cup of baked beans, mash them fine, add a half 
saltspoon of pepper, a saltspoon of salt, a teaspoon of 
tarragon vinegar, and a tablespoon of ketchup. Spread 
lightly on white bread and serve garnished with a little roll 
of grilled bacon. It will be an improvement if the beans 
are put through a pur6e sieve, as all the skins will be re- 
moved before the condiments are added. 

Bavarian Sandwiches 

Boil one firm head of cauliflower until tender, though 
it should not be allowed in any way to fall apart. When 
cold slice it in thin slices, dredge with flour, and fry in 
very hot butter until a delicate brown; sprinkle with pep- 
per and salt and lay on blotting paper to drain. When 
cold spread on thin slices of brown bread with fresh butter 
and cut wedge-shaped. 



Sand-wicHes for all Occasions 597 

Minced Chicken and Mayonnaise 

Mince the chicken and add a tablespoon of chopped 
celery and enough mayonnaise to make a spreading mix- 
ture. Make sandwiches with white bread. 

Broiled Tomato Rounds 

Dip slices of fresh, firm tomatoes in eggs and crumbs 
and then brush with melted butter. Broil carefully and 
sandvdch between rye bread rounds. 

Minced Tongue and Marmalade 

To a half a cup of minced tongue add two tablespoons 
of orange marmalade, mix to a paste, and spread on thin 
slices of graham bread. 

Codettes 

Take a cup of fresh cold boiled codfish, flake with a fork, 
season with a saltspoon of pepper, the same amount of salt, 
a teaspoon of lemon juice, and a little tomato ketchup; mix 
well and spread on a lettuce leaf between thinly buttered 
rye slices. 

Roquefort Ryes 

Take a quarter pound of fresh Roquefort cheese and 
add whipped cream enough to make a spreading paste, add a 
quarter saltspoon of red pepper and spread on thin buttered 
slices of rye bread, cut heart shape, and garnish with cress. 

SWEET SANDWICHES 
Marshmallow Sandwich 

To two tablespoons of orange marmalade add two table- 
spoons of finely chopped nuts and a cup of marshmallow 
whip. Cut brown bread rounds, lay on a leaf of white 



59^ Sand-wicKes for all Occasions 

lettuce, and spread with the marshmallow mixtiire. These 
are very rich and will have to be eaten with a fork. 

Rose Jam Sandwiches 

Lay the sandwiches up with rye bread cut very thin and 
before spreading the jam cut the pieces petal shaped. Put 
the sandwiches on a lace doily and lay one pink rose on the 
side of the plate as a garnish. 

Frosted Sandwich 

Use white bread cut in oblong shapes spread with rhu- 
barb jelly. Frost the top of each with vanilla soft frosting 
and allow it to Stand a few minutes and dry before serving; 
put a blanched almond on the top of each sandwich. 

Fresh fruit sandwiches are also newcomers and this is 
the way they are made (the proportions here given will 
make about two dozen little sandwiches each) : 

Apple Disks 

Slice and core a large Greening apple and fry in hot lard, 
drain on brown paper, sprinkle with a little salt, and lay on 
bread rounds while hot. 

Strawberry Sandwich 

Wash, hull, and cut fine one quart of firm but ripe straw- 
berries; sprinkle with powdered sugar and place in a little 
white enamel strainer over a bowl to chill until ready 
to make the sandwiches. Cut white bread thin, spread 
lightly, and after cutting it in any desired shape, fill with 
the berry mixture. Serve individually with a fork and as 
soon after they are made as possible, before the fruit has 
time to stain and soften the bread. Grated pineapple, 
seeded and chopped cherries, apricots, and peaches may all 
be served in this way. Rhubarb jelly, gooseberry jelly, 



Sand-wicHes for all Occasions 



599 



red raspberry, blackberry, elderberry, mulberry, quince, 
green grape, mint, and rose may be combined with cream 
cheese or roquefort, with whole wheat bread. These are all 
delicious. 

Banana Sandwiches 

Slice the bananas thin and let them marinate in lemon 
juice, sugar, and a dash of nutmeg for half an hour, then 
drain and roll in chopped nuts and spread on whole wheat 
bread. 

Apple Butter and Cheese 

Mix with one package of cream cheese, two tablespoons 
of apple butter and a tablespoon of chopped nuts, add a 
little cream if the paste is not soft enough to spread, and 
lay upon gluten bread. 

Apple Sauce and Brown Bread 

Add to a little good apple sauce a tablespoon of chopped 
nuts, butter the bread rounds with fresh butter, and spread 
with the mixture. 

Pineapple and Cream Cheese 

Soften a package of cream cheese with a little sweet cream, 
add a saltspoon of salt, a tablespoon of sugar and two table- 
spoons of freshly grated pineapple. Use with gluten bread. 

Cocoanut Sandwich 

Take three tablespoons of grated cocoanut and add a tea- 
spoon of chopped red pepper to it with a teaspoon of chutney 
syrup and enough mayonnaise to make the whole into a 
spreading paste. Lay upon thinly sliced, unbuttered whole 
wheat rounds. 



6oo Sand'wicHes for all Occasions 

Prune Sandwich 

Stew a pound of very large prunes in the usual way, add- 
ing a very little sugar. When done drain and allow them 
to cool, remove the pits, chop them fine, and add one cup of 
finely chopped pecans. Roll fine one dozen dry macaroons 
and add them to the mixture with enough strained honey 
to make a spreading paste. Make the sandwiches with rye 
bread and cut them in horseshoe shape. 

Matron Sandwich Filling 

Drain and pass through a sieve a half pint of preserved 
marrons; add to them a cream cheese and enough sweet 
cream to make a spreading paste; add pepper, salt, and three 
tablespoons of pineapple grated, and a teaspoon of grated 
English cheese; spread on thin rye bread rounds and serve 
with afternoon tea or with a good fruit salad. 

Minnehaha Filling 

Chop fine one cup of large seeded raisins, three quarters 
of a cup of nut meats, and one little branch of preserved 
Canton ginger, using a little of the ginger syrup to bind 
the mixture. Spread on gluten bread, cut into diamonds, 
smear the top of each very lightly with a little of the ginger 
syrup, and dust with finely ground nut meats. 

Orange Sandwich Filling 

Add to one package of cream chees6 a tablespoon of 
Roquefort cheese, a half teaspoon of salt, and a quarter 
saltspoon of red pepper. Then add enough sweet cream to 
make a paste and two tablespoons of orange marmalade 
which has the strips of peel through it. Use this with rye 
bread cut very thin and without butter. Cut in fancy 
shapes. 



Sand'wicKes for all Occasions 6oi 

Pear Sandwich 

Pare and remove the seed from one pear, mash the pulp 
smooth, rub in one teaspoon of olive oil, and add a saltspoon 
of salt, a half saltspoon of pepper, the juice of half a lemon, 
and a tablespoon of chutney syrup. Spread upon thin 
whole wheat bread, and cut into rounds. 

Mallow Whips 

Beat a half pint of marshmallow whip (which comes pre- 
pared) with a tablespoon each of chopped raisins, dates, and 
walnuts, and one spray of preserved ginger. Spread on 
thin rounds of white bread and garnish with little strips of 
candied lemon peel. 

Brandylines 

Take one brandied peach, chop, and drain; add a half 
cake of cream cheese and enough whipped cream to make a 
spreading paste. Lay on white thin rounds, and garnish 
with strips of angelica. 



CAMP COOKERY 

The main secrets of good meals in camp are to have a 
proper fire, good materials, and to understand the art of 
properly putting them together. The popularity of auto- 
mobile trekking has shown the itinerant camper the advis- 
ability of learning some of the camper's secrets especially 
the selection of a good camping ground, always near fresh 
water, and the correct making of the camp fire. 

The automobile has made picnicking the year around a 
possibility. It has taken the place of the horse and wagon 
as the motor boat has replaced the old rowboat, enabling 
the picnickers to reach their destination in half the time once 
consumed in the journey, and making possible many more 
comforts than ever before. 

The trekking picnickers of to-day take along an auto- 
mobile tent, which is quickly and easily pitched, as the car 
forms part of its supports; it is so arranged that it forms 
a wind shield or an agreeable shade around the luncheon 
party. In this shelter a ground cloth is spread which, 
though light, is waterproof; on it the folding table is opened, 
around the table folding stools are set. 

The camp fire is built in front of the tent and this is the 
proper method to follow in building it: 

To Build the Camp Fire 

Take sound hard wood either green or dead, and split it 
into sticks of uniform thickness, say one and a quarter inch 
face. Lay down two bed sticks, cross these near the ends 
with two others, and so on up until you have a pen a foot 

602 



Camp CooKery 603 

high. Start a fire in the pen. Then cover it with a layer 
of parallel sticks laid an inch apart. Cross this with a 
similar layer at right angles, and so upward for another 
foot. The free draft will make a roaring fire and all will 
burn down to coals together. This method of fire building 
will give a bed of coals in a short time, which is what the 
short-time camper desires. 

Frying 

Do not try to fry over a flaming fire or a deep bed of 
coals. Rake a thin layer of coals out in front of the fire; 
or, for a quick meal, make your fire of small dry sticks, no 
thicker than your finger, then boil water for the coffee over 
the flame and do the frying over the quickly formed coals. 

Broiling 

Broil when there is not time to roast, before a bed of glow- 
ing coals; the gridiron with legs will raise the meat or 
fish the proper distance from the fire. 

Roasting 

Build a rather large fire of split hard wood against a 
high backlog or wall of rocks which will reflect the heat 
forward. Place the article to be roasted in the folding 
oven, close to the fire, and proceed as you would when bak- 
ing in an oven. Baste the meat frequently with a long- 
handled spoon, turning it once during the roasting. 

The camp fire, built in front of the tent, has every con- 
venience to aid in preparing the meal. There are the folding 
oven, the gridiron with folding legs, and the nested cooking 
utensils with adjustable handles. A small self-cooker, hold- 
ing one gallon of chicken fricassee, or any other hot meat 
dish, has its own place on the automobile, and when the 
picnic ground is reached there is nothing to do but serve 
the hot dish. 



6o4 Camp CooKery 

Inventors, too, have been busy, with the result that 
paper plates,' cups, finger bowls and little baking cups, 
napkins, towels and dish cloths, tablecloths, wax and 
asbestos paper are all available for camp use, doing away 
with heavy dishes to wash and bother with. Thermos 
bottles, porcelain salad-carriers, cases with ice chests in 
them, and a dozen and one other conveniences now are 
offered that make the outing a picnic in every sense of 
the word. 

Folding canvas pails are used for carrjang water, and a 
couple of light-weight sleeping bags, that roll tightly and 
need but little room, are cozy for an outdoor nap, with 
blankets and air pillows, especially if children are in the 
party. Altogether, with three or four seven-passenger 
machines, all loaded with congenial friends and plenty 
of good eatables, the winter trekking party is a very 
jolly affair. 

Concentrated soups are good to take along, if the weather 
is cold, for one package makes ten plates with the addition 
of the necessary water. 

Bouillon may be taken in jars, made rich enough to jell 
or thin enough to use hot or cold. 

Sandwiches and salads, and all the other picnic good 
things, are prepared at home and packed in hampers. The 
foods to be cooked over the camp fire are packed in a ham- 
per by themselves; they may include squabs, all trussed and 
ready for the broiler; creamed oysters, ready to reheat 
when the pkt6 shells have been warmed; potatoes to bake, 
tiny mince pies to be heated, individual meat or game pies, 
and any other good thing the outdoor hostess thinks her 
guests may enjoy. She can depend upon the thermos 
bottles to carry all the hot drinks, including the bouillon. 

Sandwich fillings for outdoor eating are not as dainty, 
perhaps, as those for indoor functions, for the fresh air 
makes one too hungry to be particular. Here are a few 
tried and trusty ones that everyone will enjoy, and that in 
the open are most appetizing. 



Camp CooKery 605 

Onion Filling 

Slice very thinly the needed amount of Spanish onions, 
dust them with salt, pepper, and a few drops of lemon juice. 
Cut the crusts from square slices of whole wheat bread and 
smear very thinly with anchovy paste, then lay on the 
onion. In making these sandwiches, pS,t6 de foie gras may 
be used instead of the anchovy paste if desired. 

Savory Filling 

Take one cream cheese and add to it a chicken liver that 
has been boiled and chopped, a teaspoon of chopped pecan 
nuts, the juice of an onion, a small piece of celery chopped 
very fine, with a strip of green pepper and a gherkin pickle. 
Mold to a smooth paste, adding a teaspoon of Worcestershire 
sauce and one of chutney syrup. Serve on wheat bread 
rounds. 

Chestnut Filling 

Boil until tender, after peeling and blanching, a quart of 
chestnuts; mash them and add a lump of butter, a dash of 
nutmeg, a pinch of salt, and enough honey to make a 
spreading paste. Serve on whole wheat bread squares. 

Liver Savory Filling 

Take a half pound of the liver sausage (leberwurst), 
remove it from its casing, and add to it the juice of an 
onion, a half saltspoon of salt, a saltspoon of pepper and a 
tablespoon of Worcestershire sauce. Grate in one onion 
and work the mixture to a smooth paste. Serve on rye 
bread rounds. 

Cheese and Chive Filling 

Take a cream cheese and work to a smooth paste, with a 
little sweet cream; add a saltspoon each of pepper and salt, 



6o6 Camp CooKery 

the juice of a small onion, and a tablespoon of. chopped 
chives. Serve on slices of brown bread. 

Fried Apple Filling 

Slice thickly and core six tart apples. Fry the slices in 
hot fat to a delicate brown and lay the hot slices on whole 
wheat bread rounds, that have been lightly spread with an- 
chovy paste, dust with pepper and salt, and a pinch of sugar. 

Sausage and Apple Filling 

Take some well seasoned sausage meat and mold it into 
pats, rather thin, and the size of the bread rounds; fry a 
delicate brown and drain. When cool, lightly dip in thick 
apple sauce and serve as sandwiches. 

Cranberry jam, grapefruit marmalade, and tomato jelly 
with mayonnaise are also good for fillings in hearty out- 
door sandwiches. 

Sandwiches keep much better if wrapped before putting 
into the hamper in linen cloths that have been wrung out of 
cold water. Cutting them in fancy shapes is hardly advis- 
able, as they do not pack so well, and if they are left square 
with the crusts cut off they are just as dainty for the outdoor 
appetites. 

The meat pies may be carried in the pans they are baked 
in, placing them on sheets of cardboard with a sheet between 
each layer of the pies; then do them up in brown paper. 
They make a very pleasing change, which a trial will convince 
the picnicker of. 

Fruit pies may be made and carried in the same way, 
providing the juice is thick enough to jell. Small lemon 
pies are especially good made with a latticed crust instead 
of a meringue so that they carry well. 

Layer cakes are hard to manage, but pound and other 
slicing cakes are all right, fruit tarts can be managed by 



Camp CooKery 607 

packing them in layers in a deep box and placing a sheet of 
cardboard between each layer. 

Besides the deviled crabs, which are always good, there 
are the lobster ramekins, that are quite new, and they may 
be packed like the tarts, with pasteboard between each 
layer. If one chances to have a guest or two who are on 
the meatless diet it is not a bad idea \,a. have a cold nut 
loaf to offer them with their bread and butter; also cheese, 
vegetable, and fruit sandwiches, which they can enjoy freely. 

As salads are so much nicer made fresh, it is a good idea 
to make and bottle the kind of dressing that is to be used, 
and after washing the lettuces put them into a linen salad bag 
and lay them against the ice; the meat, fish, or vegetables 
may be prepared with, the celery chopped and put into the 
salad carrier. It will take but a few minutes to finish the 
salad on arrival at the picnic ground. If the carrier is 
tightly covered the salad material will not dry out. Eggs 
that are cold boiled for the salad garnish should be wrapped 
in wax paper and put on top of the salad until it is time to 
use them. Eggs that are deviled should be wrapped in wax 
paper and dropped into an ordinary egg box with the 
compartments, so they will carry in perfect condition. 

If the juice of three or four dozen lemons is squeezed 
and strained into a bottle, then put in the hamper next 
the ice, and three pounds of sugar is melted in one pint of 
boiling water and allowed to cool, then put into another 
bottle, lemonade will be a simple matter to make and can be 
made in any quantity as it is needed. ' 



CASSEROLE COOKERY 

A KNOWLEDGE of cassetole cookery will be found quite 
valuable, economically speaking, for the woman who cooks 
for a smiall family. It is often difficult to market wisely and 
well for two people so as not to have food left over each day. 
But the casserole dish, in many instances, will make yes- 
terday's extravagance to-day's economy, thus allowing a 
greater variety of choice in foods without danger of waste. 

The casserole has one advantage over other modes of 
cooking in that it cooks slowly and thoroughly the foods 
that require such cooking without making them dry and 
tasteless. The old-fashioned pipkin, the earthen dish with 
a cover used on top of the stove, and the old pot-roast 
pots with grating, in the bottoms, were the forerunners of the 
casserole. 

Almost any kind of food, from soup to preserves, may be 
cooked in the casserole, but for braising meat, stewing, 
pot-roasting, and the stewing of fruit or vegetables they 
are especially recommended. A medium and slowly rising 
oven is right for casserole cooking, with the steady heat 
kept at 212° F. 

In using recipes for various dishes to be cooked in the 
usual ways, but which one may wish to try in the casserole, 
double the cooking time given. For instance, a stew that 
calls for one hour cooking in the usual way should be given 
two hours to cook in the casserole; or meat pie that calls for 
thirty minutes cooking should be cooked an hour. Another 
point to remember in using the covered casserole is that 
only enough liquid, sauce, stock, cream, or whatever liquid 
the recipe calls for, should be used to cover the solid food 

60S 



Casserole CooKery 609 

of which the dish is composed. The liquid does not cook 
away as in other methods of cooking; consequently, if too 
much is used, when the juices cook from the solid food, the 
entire dish becomes too wet, and is unattractive. 

If a sauce requires thickening, before sending the casserole 
to table remove the cover and stir in the thickening evenly; 
replace the cover and allow the cooking to go on for a few 
minutes more before serving. If the family dinner hour is 
likely to be delayed, there is no food which keeps in better 
condition for a greater length of time than that cooked 
in the casserole. 

The earthenware casserole dishes are good to use in cook- 
ing on top of the stove foods that are to be served in other 
dishes, or for preserving. It is always wise to use an asbes- 
tos mat under the casserole when cooking on a gas or elec- 
tric stove, and to set it away from the hottest part of a coal 
range. For the oven there are the pretty, covered glazed 
casseroles, green or brown on the outside and white within, 
and those which are still newer made of heavy glass. The 
glass dishes hold a more intense heat than the others and 
one may watch the process of the cooking without raising 
the lid. Silver and nickel insets come for dishes of all sizes. 

If one is going in for this method of cooking seriously 
dishes of several sizes will be required, including one large 
enough to boil fish, chicken, or ham. As the dishes are 
rather expensive they should be well cared for. When new, 
fill them with water and let it slowly come to boiling point, 
remain at boiling point for an hour, then allow it to slowly 
cool. This prepares the dish for use and prevents cracking. 
Wash the dishes in warm soapsuds, but never scrape or 
scratch them so as to mar the glaze. 

Though there are a number of recipes scattered through 
this book that are suitable for casserole cookery, especially 
in stewed and creamed foods, the following are some par- 
ticularly adapted to this use. Unused, tough, or rag ends 
of steak, portions of braised or fried cutlets, pieces of roast 
beef or lamb, chops or chicken, boiled or broiled fish, vege- 



6io Casserole CooKery 

tables or macaroni combinations may all be converted into 
excellent casserole dishes with but little time and trouble 
after one has learned how. 

Guinea Fowl in Casserole 

Clean and truss the fowl in the usual way for boiling. Let 
it boil in a covered casserole until tender, adding a bud of 
garlic, a bay leaf, three cloves, and a celery stalk to the 
water. When done take up the fowl, and when slightly cool 
joint it and arrange it in a well buttered casserole dish. 
Heap in the center two cups of potato balls cut with a cutter 
and arrange a border of thinly sliced carrots and peas around 
the edge ; make a rich brown gravy, using a little of the stock 
the fowl was boiled in, about a cup of it, with a cup of 
strained tomato juice and the juice of an onion. Season 
well and thicken, with a little browned flour creamed with 
butter, to the consistency of cold honey, then turn it over 
the fowl. Cover and cook from one and a half hours to two 
hours in a medium oven. Fresh chicken may be cooked in 
the same way only using a cream sauce, or cold fried, 
broiled, or boiled chicken that may be at hand from the day 
before can be used up in this way. 

Beefsteak Rolls 

In bujang a large steak, the best cut of sirloin, have the 
butcher cut the tender part of the steak ready for broiling 
and the flank end let him split with a sharp knife into two 
thin slices. Lay the broiling steak away for next day, and 
take the flaps and lay them out on a platter. Make a good 
savory stuffing after any of the recipes given under that 
heading. Spread the flaps lightly with butter, then a layer 
of the stuffing, and roll them pinning them with wooden 
toothpicks or tying them with kitchen tape. Cut them in 
half to form four little rolls and lay them in a buttered 
casserole. Have ready two cups of string beans that have 
been carefully strung and boiled tender, drain and lay them 



Casserole CooKery 6ii 

in the center of the dish, turn over all a good, smooth, well 
seasoned tomato sauce, and cook for an hour or a little longer. 
If it has seemed best to broil all the steak, then what remains 
over may be used in the same way, but to have it tender it 
will have to be cooked a little while longer. If one likes 
them, six kidneys may be boiled until tender, throwing off the 
water seven times during the boiling, and be added to the 
sauce. 

Cabbage Stuprise 

Take one small firm cabbage, cut out the heart, strip apart 
the leaves and wash them carefully. Chop coarsely and put 
in a buttered casserole. Turn over the cabbage two cups 
of rich milk, dust it with pepper and salt and a teaspoon 
of sugar, cover, and cook for two hours. Take any cold 
cooked vegetables that are at hand and chop them, mix a 
heaping teaspoon of cornstarch in a little cream, open the 
casserole, arrange the chopped vegetables as a border, add 
the thickening, and cook a half hour longer, then serve. 

Fish Pudding 

Take cold boiled cod, halibut, or tilefish left from a boiled 
fish dinner, free it from skin and bone, then flake it with 
a silver fork. Put a layer of the fish in a buttered casserole 
dish, then a layer of finely minced onion, dry crumbs, and 
chopped cold boiled potato, dust with pepper and salt, dot 
with lumps of butter, then add another layer of fish, and so 
on until it is all used. Add one cup of cream, two table- 
spoons of melted butter, and a teaspoon of sugar. Cover 
and cook in medium oven an hour and a half; the last 
fifteen minutes remove the cover to let it brown lightly 
on top. Oysters or clams are good cooked in this way. Or 
fish that is left or shell food either may be put into a hot New- 
burg sauce, after being flaked, and then turned into a cas- 
serole dish to cook for a half hour, either of which makes an 
excellent dish. Serve with grilled potatoes and peas. 



6i2 Casserole CooKery 

Veal Ragout 

This is a cheap and good dish as well. Take six veal 
chops (loin not rib) and trim them from the bones (which 
may be added to the stock pot) . Dip the pieces of meat into 
flour and brown them quickly in hot butter. Put the 
meat into the casserole dish and after adding a cup of stock 
to the butter the meat was fried in, seasoning and thicken- 
ing it, turn it over the meat. Put six boiled artichokes in the 
center and cook in the oven one hour. 

Hambtirger Steak 

For two people, have a pound of top round steak chopped 
fine and a wee bit of fat chopped with it. Pare one large 
Spanish onion or two white onions, then chop them fine 
and saut6 them in butter until they are done and are a 
delicate brown. Spread part of the onion on the bottom of 
a small casserole dish, then lay on the steaks, spreading the 
rest of the onions on top with the butter they were cooked 
in. Dust with pepper and salt, then pour over all a cup of 
rich stock, cover, and cook one hour. If desired the steak 
may be surrounded with potato balls. 

Roast Beef Rosette 

To use up the remaining part of a rolled roast of beef, if 
one does not care for it cold, slice with a sharp knife as many 
perfect slices as possible, and trim them nicely. Then take 
all the scraps and chop them very fine, adding an onion and 
a half of a red pepper, a saltspoon of pepper and a half tea- 
spoon of salt, a half cup of bread crumbs, a half teaspoon of 
powdered herbs, and two teaspoons of chutney syrup. Mix 
the ingredients and after adding a tablespoon of melted 
butter add the stiffly beaten white of one egg. Spread 
the stuffing between each slice of meat, piling them sand- 
wich fashion in a buttered casserole. Take a large can of 
button mushrooms, drain them, and lay them around the 



Casserole CooKery 613 

edge with a dozen little potato balls and turn over all a cup 
and a half of brown sauce, the recipe for which will be found 
with the gravies and sauces. Cover and bake in a medium 
oven for an hour and a half. This will be sufficient for four 
persons if there have been eight perfect slices of meat, if less 
then there will be enough for three. Cold leg of lamb may- 
be used up in the same way, using a white sauce instead of 
the brown sauce. Again roast veal may be fixed in this way, 
using a tomato sauce and a ring of boiled rice instead of the 
mushrooms. 

Baked Calf's Liver 

Buy one pound of milk liver and instead of having it 
sliced have it split nearly through. Wash it, lard the thick 
part with bacon, and fill the opening with a savory stuffing. 
Lay in a buttered casserole, garnish the top with sliced 
hard-boiled eggs and sliced truffles, dust with pepper and 
salt, and turn over a half gill of melted butter, a small 
tumbler of melted currant jelly, and a wineglass of madeira 
wine. Cover and cook an hour and a half in a medium 
oven. This is an especially savory dish for three people 
and not expensive though it is a little troublesome to 
make. 



INDEX 



Aguacate, Cream Soup, 72 

Escalloped, 270 
Alligator Pear, Canap6, 30 
Escalloped, 270 
Relish, 34 
Soup, 83 

Cream, 72, 84 
Almond, Balls, 91 
Cake, 458 
Green, and Cantaloupe Salad, 

351 
Green, and Mirabelle Salad, 

353 

long, 465 

Milk, 522 

Pudding, 387 

Rolls, 504 

Sauce, 486 

Soup, 83 
Ambrosia Sauce, 359 
Anchovy, Canap6, 31 

Sauce, 238 
Angel Cake, 458 
Apple, Baked, Padding, 415 

Boiled, 270 

Cake, 470 

Cheesecake, 470 

Custard, 574 

Dumpling, 427 

Float, 576 

Ginger, 434 

Meringues, 434 

Paste, 502 

Peppers, 292 

Pie, 444, 445, 448 

Snow, 434 

Soup, 84, 85 

Strudel, 427 

Tapioca, 575 

Trifle, 413 

and Liver Rounds, 159 
Apricot, Cream, 483 

Flip, 522 



Frozen, 484 

Jelly, 430, 537 

Parfait, 493 

Pie, ^45 

Poached, 427 

Pudding, 415 

Shortcake, 425 
Arrowroot Gruel, 556 
Artichokes, Fileted, 269 

Jerusalem, k la Tarragon, 270 
Salad, 343 
Soup, 64 

Relish, 36 
Asparagus, au Gratin, 272 

Baked, with Lettuce, 271 

Boiled, 270 

Canap6, 33 

Fried, 272 

in Aspic, 312 

Jelly, 540 

Pudding, 558 

Pur^e, 76 

Sauce, 239 

Souffle, 271 

Soup, 64, 71 

and Lamb's Tongue Salad, 

344 
Aspic Jelly, 257 

for Decoration, 258 
Austrian Apple Cakes, 470 
Strudel, 427 
Pancakes, 408 

B 

Bachelor's Omelet, 371 

Pudding, 415 _ , ^ 
Baked Beans, New England, 273 
Salad, 336 
with Honey, 159 
Pudding (Indian Suet), 422 
Soup, 44 
Baking Powder Dumphngs, 90 
Banana, Baked, 272 



615 



6i6 



Index 



Banana — Continued 

Boats, 488 

Fried, 272 

Grilled, 207 

Mincemeat, 446 

Omelet, 377, 435 

Pat6, 166 

Peppers, 293 

Pickle, 546 

Pie, 445 

Popovers, 396 

Salad, 352 

Shortcake, 424 

Souffle, 435 

Trifle, 413 

Waffle, 404 

and Damson Tart, 428 

and French Sausage Cro- 
quette, 156 
Barbe de Capucin (Chicory Salad), 

332 
Barberry Salad, 352 
Barley Gruel, 559 

Soup, 79 
Bass, Cold Filet of, 126 
Beans, Baked, New England, 273 
Salad, 336 
with Honey, 159 

Black, 275 
Beaten Biscuit, 402 
Bechamel Sauce, 236 
Beef, Notes on, 177 

k la Mode, 182 

Boiled, 179 

Bouillon, 42 

Broth, 61 

Brown Stew, 184 

" Bubble and Squeak," 183 

Casserole Roast, 183 

Chipped, 157 

Corned, 180 

Croquettes, 185 

Filet Marine, 183 

Fritters, 171 

Hash, 181 

Heart, 185 

Hungarian Goulash, 189 

Jelly, 311 

Kidney Stew, 183 

Larding, 178 

Liver, 186 

Loaf, 181 

Olives, 182 

Pot Roast, 179 

Roast, 179, 612 

Sour Roast, 180 



Steak, Notes on, 187 
k la Creole, 188 
Chowder, 58 
en Casserole, 189 
Hamburger, 186 
Pie, 186 
Rolls, 510 
Swiss, 186 

and Mushrooms, 189 
Tea, 8i 

Tongue, 185, 193 
Beets, Boiled, 275 
Greens, 283 
Jellied, 311 
Roasted, 275 
Salad, 334 
Soups, 77, 82 
Beverages, 508-524 
Bird's Nest Salad, 339 

Soup, 92 
Biscuit Glac6, 479, 577 
Biscuits, 390 
Dainty, 397 
Hot Raised, 394 
Maryland Beaten, 402 
Qmck, 396 
Bisque, 53-54, 74. 76 
Black Beans, 275 
Blackberry Beaimiont, 435 
/ Cordial, 515 
Jelly Pie, 446 
Roly Poly, 416 
Blueberry Cake, 459 
Pie, 447, 533 
Shortcake, 426 
Bluefish, Baked, 115 
Broiled, 116 
Curried, 123 
Boiled Custard, 409 
Dressing, 357 
Icing, 466 
Bombay Sauce, 239 

Toast, 120 
Bonbon Salad, 340 
Bortsch (Russian Soup), 70 
Boston Pudding, 416 
Bouillabaisse (Soup), 51 
Bouillon, 42, 52, 59 
Brazil Nut Butter, 384 

Soup, 86 
Bread, Notes on Making, 389- 
392 
Brown, Fingers, 35 
Ice Cream, 481 
Pudding, 416 
Steamed, 392 



Index 



617 



Bread — Continued 
Cakes, 405 
Egg Puffs, 395 
Fried, 394 
Graham, 392 
Oatmeal, 392 
Pulled, 393 
Quick, 393 
Rusk, 395 

Rye, 393 

Soup, 80 

Sticks, 393 
Breadfruit Cake (Dutch), 460 
Broiling in Camp, 503 
Broth, Clam, 52, 80, 81, 556 

Royale, 61 

Scotch Mutton, 48, 556 
Brown Betty Pudding, 582 

Flour, to, 260 

Mushroom Sauce, 244 

Onion Sauce, 243 

Sauce or Gravy, 235 
Brussels Sprouts, 275 
Buckwheat Cakes, 405 
Buffet Menus (Children), 586 
Bulgarian Chops, 194 
Buns, Hot Cross, 399 

Sweet Potato, 396 
Burgundy Cream, 431 
Burnt Onions for Gravies, 238 
Butter, Notes on, 375 

Drawn, Sauce, 238 

Fairy, 375 

Mattre d'Hdtel, 242 
Buttered Spaghetti, 321 
Butterscotch, 500 

Pie, 446 



Cabbage, Baked and Boiled, 276 

Red, 277 

Salad, 343 

Slaw, 277 

Soup, 73 

Stuffed, 276 

Surprise, 611 
CaU au Lait, 508 

Noir, 508 

Parfait, 493 

Cake, 455-464 

for Children, 578 
Fillings, 464-466 
Frosting and Icing, 464 
Layer, 461-464 
Making, 455 



Cakes, Fish, 96, 99, 102 

Oat, 401 

Potato, 296 

Scotch, 401 

Small, 466-473 

Wheat, 404 
Calf's Foot, Jelly, 310 
Stewed, 558 

Head, 191, 195 

Liver, 152, 171, 191, 194, 613 

Tongue, 157 
Camembert Toast, 379 
Camp Conveniences, 603 

Cookery, 602 

Fire, 602 
Camping, What Foods to Take, 

606 
Canapes, Notes on, and Recipes, 

27 
Canary Pudding, 416 
Candy, Notes on Making, 499 
Canned Salad, Making, 341 
Canning, Dry Pack, 526 
Cantaloupe, 349, 351, 440 
Caper Sauce, 239 
Capons, 218 
Caramel Ice Cream, 480 

Sauce, 424 
Cardoon Salad, 345 
Carrots, 221, 244, 278, 311, 539 
Carving, 173 
Casaba Melon, 350, 440 
Casserole Cookery, 608 
Cauliflower, 234, 278, 312, 335, 

545 
Caviar, 29, 31, 32, 35 
Celeriac, 279 
Celery, 29, 73, 232, 240, 279, 353, 

551 
Cereals, 314-318 

Soups, 77 
Champagne, 239, 511, 514, 541 
Chanticleer Cocktail, 510 
Chantaiy Soup, 66 
Chapon for Salad Bowl, 325 
Cheese, Notes on, 376-381 

Apple Cake, 470 

Cream, 337 

Omelet, 370 

and Rice Custard, 410 

Roquefort and Celery Can- 
ape, 29 

Salads, 337-341. 347 
Cherries, 82, 353, 483, 494, 513, 

519. 535. 544 
Cherry Pie, 447, 449, 45' 



6i8 



Index 



Chestnut (Marrons), 30, 85, 86, 

154, 231, 232, 245, 302, 351, 

378, 385. 387, 398, 430, 486, 

487. 494. 496, 535, 592 
Chicken, Adrienne, 156 

k la King, 215 

k la Mt. Vernon, 211 

k la Papigo, 216 

au Gratin, 213 

Bouillon, 59 

broiled, 213 

with Jellied Giblets, 217 

Broth, 556 

Capons, 218 

Chop Suey, 213 

Compote, 215 

en Casserole, 214 

Essence of, MadrUaine in 
Jelly, 81 

Fowl Pilau, 212 

Fricassee of Spring, 215 

Giblet Soup, 60 

How to Stuff, 209 

Jelly, 309 

Liver Canap^, 33 

Liver Saut6, 217 

Madrilaine, 214 

Maryland Pried, 211 

Mock, Cutlets, 151 

Pie, 216 

Poulet k la Marengo, 212 

Salad with BottleBreast of, 

344 
Jellied, 346 
Pie, 330 
Puffs, 332 
Sausage, 217 
Shortcake, 213 
Chicory (Barbe de Capucin), 

332 
Children's Buffet Menu, 586 
Cakes, 578 
Desserts, 574 
Diets, 565 

Dinner Refreshments, 587 
Dishes for Them to Make, 

581 
Favorite Dishes of, 571 
General Feeding, 570 
Ice Creams, 577 
Parties, 584 
Party Menus, 585 
Pudding, 577 
School Luncheons, 589 
Chile-Con-Carne, 61 
Chili Sauce, 547 



Vmegar, 551 
Chinatown, Markets of, 312 
Chinese Fish, 159 

Salad, 335 

Sauce, 244 
Chocolate, Notes on, 509 

Cake (Solid), 456 

Cream Drops, 502 

Ice Cream, 479 

Layer Cake Filling, 464 

Punch (Hot), 518 

Sauce, 487 

Schnutten, 462 
Chop Suey, Chicken, 213 
Chops, Broiled, and Potatoes, 
581 

Sauce for, 247 
Chow-Chow, 592 

Tomato, 547 
Chowder, 54, 55, 56, 57, 58 
Christmas Eggnog, 519 
Chutney, Tomato, 545 
Cider, Hot Spiced, 515 

Mulled, 515 
Cinnamon Toast, 573 
Clams, Notes on, 144 

Baked, 144 

Bouillon, 52-81 

Broth, 52, 80, 556 

Canap6, 28 

Curried, 145 

Escalloped, 145 

Fritters, 169 

Iced Broth, 81 

New England Chowder, 56 

Pie, 145 

Soup, 51 
Claret Cup, 514 
Coal, Cooking by, 3 
Cocktails, 509, 513 

Notes on, 509 

of Fruit, 513 
Cocoa, Notes on, 509 
Cocoanut Cake, 463 

Drops, 468 

Pie, 447 

Soup, 85 

Hindustani, 85 
Codfish, au Gratin, 108 

Broiled, 106 

Creamed, on Toast, 109 

Croquettes, 108 

Curried, 107 

Escalloped, no 

Fresh, 558 

in Balls, 106 



Index 



619 



Codfish — Continued 

Rameldns, no 
Jellied, in 
Mock Scallops, in 
Peppers, 108 
Pie, 107 

Pineapple en Casserole, 109 
Tongues Creamed, 109 

and Lobster en Casserole, 
132 

Pat6, 162 

Salad, 326 
Turbot, no 
Coffee, Nutritious, 560 
Cold Soups, 80 
Colecaimon, 277 
Company Luncheon Dish, a, 

151 
Consomm6, 43 
Cookery, en Casserole, 608 

Vegetable, 265-269 
Cookies, 466, 470 

Favorite, 579 

Seed, 579 

Soft Molasses, 474 
Cooking by Coal, 3 
Gas, 3 

Electricity, 4, 5 
while Camping, 602 
Coquelle Canap6, 27 
Com, au gratin, 280 

Bread, 400 

Chowder, 58 

Croquettes, 279 

Fritters, 280 

Green, on Cob, to Boil, 279 

Pone, 396 

Pur^e, 72 

Roast, on Cob, 279 

Salad, Hot, Canned, 343 

Soup from Fresh, 65 

to Pop in Oil, 501 
Corned Beef, 180 
Commeal Gruel, 556, 560 

Mush, 315 
Crabs, Notes on Boiling, 134 

deviled, 135 

Gumbo, 136 

Meat au Gratin, 136 

Meat in Ramekins, 135 

Meat Puffs, 135 

Meat Soup, 50 

Sauce, 240 

Soft Shelled, 136 

Italian Way, 137 

Stuffed, 134 



Tartlet, 135 

and Fresh Olive Salad, 329 
Cracker Diunplings, 88 
Cranberry Sauce, 244 

Salad, 334 
Crawfish, Notes on, 137 
Cream, 374 

Cheese, to Make, 377 

and Chestnut Purge, 378 
with Mac^doine Vege- 
tables, 337 
Piquant, 378 

Chocolate, 503 

Dressing, Sweet, 357 

Frozen, 490 

Giblet Sauce, 244 

Sauce, 236 

French, 237 

Soup, 71 

Toast, 573 
Cr^me de Menthe Jelly, 541 
Creole Gimibo, 65 
Cress Vinegar, 551 
Crones, Notes on, 309 
Croutons, 88 
Crullers, 472, 579 
Crust, Pie, 443 
Cucumbers, k la Poulette, 281 

Aspic, 346 

Canape, 32 

Deviled, 281 

Fried, 281 

Jelly, 541 

Purge, 72 

Sauce, 240 

Soup, 65 

Stuffed, 280 

Tile in, Jelly, 124 

and Liver Pat6, 166 

and Nut Salad, 347 

and Onion Jelly, 312 
Curry Powder, 259 
Custards, 409 

Baked, 410 

Boiled, 409 

French Frozen, 480 

Lemon Frozen, 412 

Peach Cobbler, 411 

Pie, 447 

Pie, Frosted, 448 

Rhubarb Fool, 412 

Syllabub, 411 

Vermicelli, 322 
Cut Glass, care of, 17 
Cutlet, en Casserole, 195 

Stewed, 558 



620 



Index 



D 

Dairy Products, 361 
Damson Plum Pie, 448 

Tart, 428 
Dandelion, 282 

Pur6e, 74 
Dasheens, Notes on, 308 
Date, Custard, Frozen, 482 

Dainty, 436 

JelHed, 431 

Souffle, 436 
Dead Cakes, 471 
DeUcacies for the Table, 254- 

264 
Desserts, 409 

for Children, 574 

of Fruit, 434-439 

JeUy, 430-434 
Deviled Salad Balls, 338 
Devonshire Cream, 374 

Junket, 374 
Diet for Children, 565 
Diets for the Rheumatic, 561 
Dinner Refreshments (Children), 

587 
Dishes for Children to Make, 581 
Dormers, 198 
Doughnuts, 472, 473 
Drawn Butter Sauce, 238 
Dressing for Salads, 354-360 

Fruit Salad, 357 
Dried Fruit Pies, 448 
Drinks, Nourishing, 558 

to be Served on the Porch, 
520 
Dry Pack Canning, 526 
Duchess Sauce, 423 
Ducks, Notes on Roast, 220 

and Carrots, 221 

Jiblet Soup, 60 

and Orange Salad, 331 

VtU, 164 
Dumplings, Apple, 427 

Austrian Potato, 88 

Baking Powder, 90 

Coronte, 89 

Cracker, 88 

Farina, 316 

German Liver, 89 

Potato, 90 

Soup, 89 

Stew, 89 

Suet, 91 
Dutch Breadfruit Cake, 460 

Croquettes, 151 



Salad, 347 
Sauce, 241 

£ 

Eels, Pried, 116 

Cold Jellied, 127 

Soup, 48 
Eggplant, to fry, 282 

au Gratin, 283 

Bombay, 282 

Turkish, 283 
Eggs, Notes on, 361 

American, 365 

au Miroir, 365 

Baked, 363 

Chinese, 365 

French, 366 

German, 366 

Hungarian, 366 

Irish, 366 

Italian, 366 

Mignon, 363 

New Salad, 340 

Nicoise, 367 

Nog, Christmas, 519 

Norwegian, 367 

Omelets, 368 

Poached, k la Reine, 167 
with cream sauce, 362 

Puffs, 395 

Rolls, 396 

Russian, 367 

Salads, 337-341 

Sauce, 241 

Scotch, 367 

Scotch Woodcock, 364 

Scrambled with Sardines, 

364 

Shirred with ham, 364 

Turkish, 367 

Vermicelli, 365 

Wine, 559 

with Crayfish, 364 

with Tomatoes, 363 
Egyptian Meat Pie, 194 
Electricity, Cooking by, 4 
En Casserole, 608 
Endive, 282 

Roquefort Cheese Salad, 338 

Stuffed Salad, 333 
English Brown Sauce or Gravy, 

235 
Chowder, 57 
Mustard, 360 



Index 



621 



English Brown Sauce — Continued 

Mutton Chop, 199 

Trifles, 412 
Entries, 150-172 

Notes on, 150 
Escarole, Panned, 282 
Essences for Meat and Game, 

249 
Everton TofiEee, 500 

P 

Fairy Butter, 375 
Fanchonettes, 429 
Fancy Individual Small Cakes, 

470 
Farina Dumplings, 316 
Farmer's Fruit Cake, 475 
Feeding the Child, 568 
Fennel Jelly, 540 

Seed Salad, 336 
Fenuchi Salad, 336 
Fig Cream, 502 

in Honey, 436 

Jam, 534 

Pudding, 417 

Salad, 353 

Tomato (Sweet Preserve), 

549 

Filet Marino, 183 

Filet of Sole, 112 

Fillings for Cake, 464-466 

for Chocolate Cake, 464 

for Minnehaha Cake, 465 

tor Sandwiches, 594-601 
Finnan Haddie 4 la King, 118 
Baked, 118 
Canap6, 34 
Fireless Cookers, 4-5 
Fish, Cakes, 95, 99 

Chinese, 159 

Chowder, 56 

Cookery, 95 

Dish, a Good Cold, 126 

Fancy, 591 

Forcemeat, 119 

Jellies to be Served with, 539- 

542 
Notes on, 93 

Pudding en Casserole, 611 
Salads, 325-329 
Sauces, 238 
Shell, 128 
Soups, 48 
to Bake, 94 



to Boil, 94 

and Oyster Pie, 57 

and Pineapple Canape, 29 
Fisherman's Punch, 518 
Flannel Cakes, 404 
Floating Island, Modem, 410 

Old Fashioned, 41Q 
Flounder h. la Italienne, 1 1 1 

k la Turque, 112 

Chinese Pish, 159 

Filet of Sole, 112 

Filet of Sole in Cases, 113 

Stuflfed or Rolled, 113 
Flour, to Brown, 260 
Flowers of Pastry, 444 
Foamy Sauce, 423 
Food Garnishes and Their Mak- 
ing, 250-253 
Forcemeat Ball, 91 

Stuffing, 231 
Fowls, how to Bone, 225 

how to Stuff, 209 

Pilau, 212 
Frangipane Tart, 428 
French Dressing, Heavy, 354 

with Vegetable or Pea- 
nut Oil, 354 

Fondant or Cream, 505 

Frozen Custard, 480 

Mustard Sauce, 359 

Pancakes, 406 

Waffles, 403 

White Sauce or BSchamel, 
236 
Fresh Fish, 93 

Olive Salad, 339 
Fried Salad, 335 
Fries, Lamb, 201 
Frijoles, Merican, 275 
Fritters, Notes on, 167 

Rice, 318 

Sweet, 428-430 

Walnut, 387 
Frogs' Legs Creamed, 119 

Currant Sauce, 158 
Fried, 118 
Salad, 327 
Frosted Holly Leaves, 261 
Frozen Apricots, 484 

Cheese Salad, 339 

Cherries, 483 

Cream, 490 

Custard, 480 

Date Custard, 482 

Fruit Juices, 496 

Peaches, 482 



622 



Index 



Frozen Peaches — Continued 

Peach Shortcake, 489 

Plum Pudding, 483 

Rice Pudding, 490 

Strawberries, 482 
Fruit Cake, 457 

Cakes, Parmer's, 475 
Ohio, 461 

Cocktails, 513 

Desserts, 434-439 

Jelly, 431 

Juice, Frozen, 496 

Muffins, 399 

Omelet, 371 

Pies of Dried Fruit, 448 

Pinwheel, 469 

Pudding, 417 

Punch, 518 

Salads, 348-353 

Dressings for, 357 

Soups, 83 

Supreme of, 437 

with Jelly Mac^doine, 432, 

575 
Frunut Salad, 351 
Frying in Camp, 603 
Fudge, Baltimore, 503 

Cocoanut, 504 

Maple, 504 



Game, Notes on Kinds of, 227 

Salads, 329-332 

Sauces, 243-248 

Soups, 59 
Garlic vinegar, 550 
Garnishes, Notes on, 250-253 

for Salads, 259 

for Soup, 87 
Gas, Cooking by, 3 
Gems, Rice, 397 
German Canape, 31 

Pancake, 406 

Potato Caked, 296 

Potatoes, 295 
Giblet Pie, 222 

Soup, Chicken, 60 
Duck, 60 
Gingerbread, 473, 476 

Honey and Sour Milk, 475 

Soft, 579 
Ginger Cake, Maple, 474 

Fritters, 170 

Ice Cream, 481 

Preserved Green, 534 



Pudding, 417 

Punch, 517 

Snaps, 476, 580 

Water ice, 495 
Glaze, Meat, 260 
Glazed Sweet Potatoes, 297 
Glen House Flannel Cakes, 404 
Gluten Muffins, 398 
Gnome Punch, 517 
Golden Pudding, 417 
Good Stuffing, 230 
Goose, Roast, 219 

Swedish Roast, 220 
Gooseberry Jelly, 535 

Sauce, 241 

Sherbet, 492 

Tart, 329 

Trifle, 414 
Graham Bread, Steamed, 392 
Grape, Canape, 32 

Cooler, 517 

Ice, 495 

Jellied, 574 

Ketchup, 553 

Sauce, 112 

Tart (White), 429 

Trifle, 414 

and Celery Salad, 353 
Grapefruit Fritters, 170 

JeUy, 537 

Marmalade, 533 

Salad, 343 

Trifle, 414 

and Sardine Canap^, 28 
Gravies, art of Making, 233 
Grajrfish with Eggs, 364 
Green Com au Gratin, 280 
Croquettes, 279 

Gage Sweetmeats, 531 

Pea Cutlets, 291 

Peppers, Egyptian, Stuffed, 
291 

Tomatoes, Fried, 302 

Turtle Soup, 53 
Greens, 283 
Gruels, 556 
Guinea Fowl, Notes on, 222 

en Casserole, 222, 610 

H 

Halibut, au Gratin, 114 
Baked, 113 
Chicken, Salad, 328 
Deviled, 114 



Index 



623 



Halibut — Continued 

Macaroni, 115 

Pineapple, 115 

Turbot, 114 
Ham, Baked Fresh, 204 
Smoked, 203 

Boiled, 203 

Fried, 204 

Grilled with Bananas, 207 

Mousse, 158 

Muffins, 397 

Patties, 167 

and Chow-Chow, 592 

and Truffles, 306 

and Veal Pie, 192 

with Shirred Eggs, 364 
Hamburger Steak, 185, 612 
Hard Sauce, 423 
Harvest Punch, 519 
Hash, Fine, 181 

Coarse, 181 
Hazelnut Salad, 341 
Heart, Baked, 185 
Heart-of-PaJm Canape, 30 

Mixture with Mayonnaise, 36 

Potage, 92 
Herring Roe in Oil Relish, 36 
Hessian Omelet, 369 

Sauce, 242 
Hickory Nut Candy, 500 
Hodge-Podge (Soup), 48 
Holly Leaves, to Frost, 261 
Home Made Bread, 389-392 
Ice Creams, 477 

Nursing, 562 

Stuffed Olives, 261 
Hominy, 315 
Honey, Cake, 458 

Hot, with Rice, 318 

Love Sauce, 485 

Mousse, 496 

Posset, 519 

Puffs, 501 

and Baked Beans, 159 

and Sour Milk Gingerbread, 

475 
Honeycomb Gingerbread, 473 
Hongkong Cooler, 517 
Hopping John, 290 
Hors d'CEuvres, 35 

Horseradish Sauce, 245 

Vinegar, 551 
Horse's Neck (Temperance), 521 
Hot Breads, 393 

Cross Buns, 399 

Spice, 248 



Water Pie Crust, 443 
How to Stuff Fowl, 209 
Hungarian Goulash, 189 



Ice Cream, Notes on Making, 477 
Novel Ways of Serving, 

487 
Sandwiches, 488 
Sauces for, 485 
Ices, Notes on, 490 
Icings for Cakes, 464-466 
Imperial Soup, 41 
India Canap^, 29 
Indian Trifle, 414 
Invalid Cookery, 555 
Drinks, 558 
Food Hints, 557 
Jelly, 557 
Irish Potato Cakes, 296 

Stew, 199 
Italian Cutlets, 198 
Spaghetti, 320 
Squash, Notes on, 299 



Jam for Summer, 537-539 

Shortcake, 4^26 
Japanese Salad, 350 
Jellied Beets, 311 

Calf's Tongue, 157 

Carrots and Rice, 311 

Cucumber and Onion, 311 

Dates, 431 

Desserts, 430-434 

Mutton Broth, 310 

Peas and Cauliflower, 312 

Salads, 345-348 
, _ Soups, 80 
Jellies for Summer, 537-539 

to be Used with Fish, 539-542 
Jelly, Aspic, 257 

for Decoration, 258 
Asparagus in, 312 

Beef, 311 

Calf's Foot, 310 

Chicken, 309 

Doughnuts, 472 

Essence of CWcken, 81 

Sandwiches, 580 

Sponge, 460 

Tapioca, 310 

Tomato, 345 

Tutti Frutti, 433 



624 



Index 



Jelly — Continued 

Vegetables in, 309 
Watermelon, 441 
and Cheese Salad, 347 

Jerusalem Artichokes, 270 
ewish Shallit, 450 
ohn Bull's Own Pudding, 418 
oUyboys, 469 

Jumbles, 467 
unket, 583 

Devonshire, 374 

K 

Ketchups, Making of, 552 
Kidneys, Madeira, 150 

in Sauce, 156 

Stew, 183 
Kohlrabi, 284 



Ladies' Delight Pickle, 544 
Lady Baltimore Cake, 462 
Lamb, Carving, 175 

Notes on, 196 

Pries, 201 

Roasting, 200 

Stuffed Shoulder, 200 

Sweetbreads, 200 

Tongue Salad, 344 

Trotters, 199 
Lard, 205 

Larding Meats, 178 
Layer Cakes, 461-464 

Cake Plain, 463 

Made with Oil, 464 
Leeks, 2"84 

Left-Overs, Use of, 218 
Lemon Cake, Pilling, 464 

Ice, 494 

Pie Princess, 451 

Sauce, 418, 424 

Sherbet, 491 

Soup, 82 

Sponge, 412 
Lemonade, 523 

Nourishing, 559 
Lentil Pancakes, 407 

Soup, 67 
Lettuce, Birds' Nest Salad, 339 

Cream of, Soup, 77 

with Baked Asparagus, 271 
Lilac Sherbet, 491 
Lima Beans, 273 

Baked, 273 

Pancakes, 407 



Pur^e of, 72 
Litchi Salad, 340 
Little Cooks, Recipes for the, 581 
Liver, 186 

Calf's, 152, 171, 191, 194 

Ca.xia.p6, 29, 33 

Dumplings, 89 

Ketchup, 553 

Saut6, 217 

Savoy, 159 

and Apple Rounds, 159 

and Cuctunber Pat^, 166 
Lobster, choosing and preparing 
of, 128 

&, la Militaire, 152 

k la Newburg, 131 

Biscjue, 54 

Broxled, 134 

Buttered, 131 

Canap^, 34 

Cardinal, 133 

Chops, 131 

Chowder, 57 

Creole, 133 

Fritters, 172 

Omelet, 370 

Provenpale, 133 

Pur6e, 54 

Salad, Baked, 327 

Scalloped, 132 

Soup, 51 

Stuffing for Fish, 1 19 

Tarts, 132 

and Codfish Tongues, 132 

and Sweetbread, 130 
Lomo, 206 

M 

Macaroni, Baked, 319 

Notes on, 319 

Cutlets, 319 

Halibut, 115 

Soup, 78 

with Saffron Curry Sauce, 320 

with Spinach, 320 
Macaroons, 469 

Peanut, 386 
Mac^doine, Fruit, 575 
in Jelly, 432 

Stuffing, 232 

Vegetable, 163, 311 
Salad, 337 
Mackerel, Broiled, 117 

Creamed, 117 

Spanish, 122 



Index 



625 



Madagascar Relish, 36 
Madeira Kidneys, 150 
Maids of Honor, 428 
Maitre d'H6tel Butter, 242 
Making Canned Salads, 341 
Maple Ginger Cake, 474 
Icing, 466 
Mousse, 497 
Sauce, 487 
Marble Cake, 457 
March Pane (Candy), 505 
Markets of Chinatown, 312 
Marlborough Pudding, 419 
Marmalade au Crfeme (Apple), 435 
Marron Frapp^, 494 
Marrons in Honey, 387 
in Spinach, 302 
Sauce for Fowls, 245 
Soup, 86 
Prune Salad, 351 
Tart, 430 

and Sweetbread, 154 
Marrow, Baked, 307 

Balls for Soup, 90, 91 
Bones, 155 
Preserved, 535 
a Vegetable, 307 
Marshmallow FiUing, 465 
Martha Washington Chowder, 54 
Martini Cocktail, 512 
Maryland Chowder, 55 
Fried Chicken, 211 
Matelote Sauce, 242 
Mayonnaise, Boiled, 356 
Plain, 355 
Russian, 356 
with Mustard, 356 
with Walnut Oil, 355 
without Oil, 356 
Mead, 522 
Meals, serving of, 6 
Measuring Tables, 23 
Meat Glaze, 260 
Salads, 329-332 
Sauces, 243-248 
Soups, 41 
Meats, 177 

Melons, Serving of, 440, 442 
Menus for Children's Parties, 585 
Meringue Pudding, 419 

and Whipped Cream Sauce, 
486 
Mexican Cake, 475 
Frijoles, 275 
Soup, 47, 61 
Midgets, 468 

40 



Military Pudding, 418 
Milk, Notes on, 373 

Punch, French Frozen, 485 
Snap, 523 
Mince Pie, 451 

Roly Poly Pudding, 422 
Mincemeat, Banana, 446 
Green Tomato, 547 
Minnehaha Cake, 465 
Mint Jelly, 538 
Julip, 518 
Jelly, 541 

Sauce, 245 
Mirabelle and Green Almond 

Salad, 353 
Mocha Filling, 466 

Pancakes, 408 
Mock Cherry Pie, 451 

Chicken Cutlet, 151 

Fish Pat^s, 299 

Scallops, III 

Turtle Soup, 45 
Molasses, Candy, 500 

Dainties, 473 

Soft, Cookies, 474 
MoUusks, 138 
Monte Carlo Soup, 79 
Mortadelle-de-Bologne Relish, 36 
Moselle Cup, 514 
Mousses, Notes on, 496 
Muffins, Chestnut, 398 

Com, 398 

English, 402 

Fruit, 399 

Gluten, 398 

Ham, 397 

Quick, 583 
Mullagatawny Soup, 60 
Mulled Cider, 515 

Wine, 515 
Mush, Corn-Meal, 315 . 
Mushrooms, k la Bordelaise, 286 

Brown, Sauce, 244 

Fresh, Fried in Butter, 285 

in Baked Spanish Onion, 286 

Ketch^p, 552 

Notes on, 284 

Pat^s, 285 

Soup, 69 

Sweetbreads, 161, 195 

Under Glass, 286 

White, Sauce, 248 
Mussels, Buttered, 146 

Canap^, 30 

Notes on, 146 

Salad, 328 



626 



Index 



Mustard, English, 360 

Pickle, 550 

Sauce, 242, 359 
Mutton, Boiled Leg of, 197 

Broth, 48, 556 
Jelly, 310 

Chops, English, 199 

Crown or Rack Roast, 201 

Cutlet, Stewed, 558 

Dormers, 198 

Irish Stew, 199 

Italian Cutlets, 198 

Notes on, 196 

Ke, 197, 199 

Soup, 45 

Toad in Hole, 156 

N 

Nasturtium Pickles, 544 
Nesselrode Pudding, 484 
Newburg Omelet, 369 ' 
New England Clam Chowder, 56 
Noodles, 322 

Escalloped, 323 

to Make Plain, 323 

with Brown Sauce, 323 
Notes on Chinese Cookery, 312 , 

Pish, 93 
Nourishing Drinks, 558 
Novel Ways to Serve Ice Cream, 

487 
Nursery Cookery, 572 
Nursing at Home, 562 
Nuts, as Pood, 384-388 

Bread, 400 

Butter (Brazil), 384 

Creams, 504 

Cutlets, 386 

Doughnuts, 473 

Notes on, 382-384 

Roast, 385 

Salads, 337, 341 

Soups, 83 

Wafers, 467 

and Cucumber Salad, 347 

to Salt, 384 



Oat Cakes (Scotch), 401 
Oatmeal, to Boil, 315 

Bread with Honey, 392 
Ohio Fruit Cake, 461 
Okra Soup, 68 



Olives, Beef, 182 

Fresh, 329 

Home StuSed, 261 

Notes on. Uses of, 261, 264 

Ripe, Omelet of, 370 

Salad of Fresh, 339 

Sauce, 246 

with Sweetbreads, 160 
Omelets, 152, 368-373, 435 

Plain, 368 

Souffle, 371 

Sweet, 371-373 

with Cheese, 370 
One, Two, Three, Pour Cake, 460 
Onions, Baked Spanish, 287 

Brown Sauce, 243 

Burnt, for Gravy, 238 

Fritters, 288 

Omelet, 370 

Pie, 287 

Puffs, 288 

Scalloped, 288 

Sauce, 245 

Soup, 68 

to Boil, 287 

to Fry, 287 

and Cucumber Jellied, 311 
Orange, Baked, Pudding, 419 

Batter Pudding, 419 

Blossom (Drink), 511 

Chocolate Quarters, 437 

Cream, 432 . 

Gravy, 246 

Ice, 495 

Jelly, 557 

Layer Cake, Cuban, 461 

Omelet, 372 

Parfait, 494 

Pie, 452 

Shortcake, 426 

Souffle, 437 

Soup, 82, 87 

and Duck Salad, 331 

and Rhubarb Jam, 53J 
Outdoor Cookery, 602 
Oxtail Soup, 43 
Oysters, Baked in Tomatoes, 141 

Bombay, 143 

Bundles, 142 

Croquettes, 142 

Curried, 143 

Deviled, 153 

Fritters, 169 

Loaf, 140 

Newburg, 140 

Notes on, 138 



Index 



627 



Oysters — Continued 
Pat6s, 163 
Pie, 142 
Salad, 325 
Scalloped, 143 
Shortcake, 144 
Soup, 50 
StufSng, 231 
Toad in Hole, 156 
and Com Scallop, 141 
and Fish Pie, 57 



Pakchoi (Chinese Salad), 335 

Pancakes, 404-408 

Pan Fish, 117 

Panocha (Candy), 499 

Parfaits, 493 

Parker House Rolls, 399 

Parsley and Butter Sauce, 246 

Green, 290 
Parsnip, Cones, 289 

Purge, 75 

Smothered, 289 

Soup, 66 

to Boil, 289 
Parties for Children, 584 
Party Menus for Children, 585 
Pastel Sauce, 423 
Pastry Crust, 442 

Flowers. 444 
Pat6-de-Foi-Gras (Relish), 36 
Patties, 162 
Peach, Bavaroise, 438, 575 

Cobbler, 411 

Cream, 577 

Frozen, 482 

Melba, 483 

Pie, 452 

Pudding, 420 

Pufflets, 429 

Purge, 74 

Salad, 348 

Sherbet, 491 

Shortcake, Frozen, 489 

Sweet Pickled, 546 

and Rice, 575 
■"eanut Candy, 501 

Cookies, 466 

Macaroons, 386 

Soup, Cream of, 87 
Pears, Baked, 438 

Pie, 449 

Princess, 438 



Peas, Cow, 290 

Green, Cutlets, 291 

Jellied with CauUflower, 313 

Soup, 63 

Fresh, 66 

to Stew or Boil Fresh, 290 
Pecans and Cherries, Preserved, 

535 
Peppers, Boiled, 292 

Egyptian Stuffed, 291 

Macgdoine, 292 

Notes on, 291 

Shad, 103 

Stuffed Green, 291 

Sweet Pickled, 546 

with Apples, 292 ; with Ban- 
ana, 293 
Perch, Stewed, 122 
Petit Marmite (Soup) , 47 
Pheasant Soup, 61 
Philadelphia Fish House Punch, 

516 
Pickle, Hors d'CEuvres, 35 

Mustard, 550 

Sour Spice, 36 
Pickled Surprise, 543 
Pickles, Quick, 543 
Pickling, Idea on, 542 

Notes on, 525 

to Make a Spice Bag, 543 
Pie, Beefsteak, 186 

Chicken, 216 

Chicken Salad, 330 

Clam, 145 

Codfish, 107 

Crust, Hot Water, 443 
Plain, 443 

Egyptian Meat, 194 

Fish and Oyster, 57 

Giblet, 222 

Mutton, 197, 199 

Notes on, 442-454 

Onion, 287 

Oyster, 142 

Pigeon, 223 

Pork, 204 

Rabbit, 226 

Turnip, 304 

Veal and Ham, 192 
Pigeon, Broiled, 223 

Cookery, 222 

Pie, 223 

Roast, 223 

Salad, 231 

Soup, 62 
Pig, Roast, 205 



628 



Index 



Pig's Feet, 205 
Pike, Pineapple, 118 
Pilgrim Pudding, 420 
Pimento Bisque, 74 
Pine Nut Roast, 386 

Paste, 385 
Pine Roast, 385 
Pineapple Cocktail, 513 

Cones, 489 

Fingers, 35 

Fizz, 560 

Halibut, 115 

Ice, 494 

Cream, 479 

Jelly, 537 

Marshmallow, 501 

Mousse, 497 

Pat6, 166 

Pie, 452 

Pike, 118 

Pilot, 523 

Punch, 518 

Pur^e, 74 

Sauce, 242, 487 

Sherbet, 491 

Whip, 438 

and Cheese Salad, 338 

and Fish Canap6, 29 

and Shad Salad, 329 

and Tuna Fish, 164 
Plain Layer Cake, 463 

Made with Oil, 464 

Omelet, 368 

Pie Crust, 443 
Planking any Fish, Recipe for, loi 
Plum Cake, Old Fashioned, 461 
Plums, Damson Cheese, 530 

Green Gage Sweetmeats, 531 

Paste, 531 

Pat6, 167 

Preserving and Pickling of, 
530 

Pudding (Damson), 448 

Pudding (Frozen), 483 
« Sherbet, 491 

Soup, 84 
Polish Chops, 193 

Filled Fish, 109 

Tarts, 430 
Pomeranian Soup, 70 
Pompano Stuffed with Lobster, 

Popcorn Pudding, 420 
Popovers, 395, 396 
Popping Com in Oil, 501 
Porch Drinks, 520 



Pork, Notes on, 202 

Baked Smoked Ham, 203 

Boiled Ham, 203 

Carving, 175 

Fresh Baked Ham, 204 

Fried Ham, 204 

Grilled Ham with Bananas, 

207 
Ham Mousse, 158 

Pat^s in Aspic, 167 

and TruflSes, 306 

and Veal Pie, 192 
Lard, 205 
Lomo, 206 
Pie, 204 
Pig's Feet, 205 
Roast, 204 

Pig, 205 

Stuffed Tenderloin, 206 
Sausage k la Malaga, 154 

Creamed, 155 

Meat, 205 

Pasties, 207 

Puffs, 155 
and Banana Croquettes, 156 
Porto de Menzanas, 259 
Potage Cressonnifere, 75 

Printanier, 44 
Potato Cakes, Irish, 296 

German, 296 
Chowder, 58 
Creamed, 573 
Custards, 297 
Danish, 296 
Dumplings, 90 

Austrian, 88 
Escalloped, 295 
Fingers, 296 
French Fried, 294 
German, 295 
Notes on, 293 
Pancakes, 406 
Riced, 297 
Rissoles, 295 
Salad, New, 333 
and Shrimp Salad, 344 
Soup, 68 

Stuffed en Casserole, 295 
Stuffing, 230 
Sweet, Buns, 396 

Glazed, 297 

with Sherry, 297 

Waffles, 403 
Potatoes to Boil and Bake, 

294 
Pot-au-Feu, 46 



Index 



629 



Pot Cheese, 378 

Roast, 179 
Poulet k la Marengo, 212 
Poultry, Giblet Pie, 222 

How to StuflE Fowls, 209 

Notes on, 208 

Sauces for, 243-248 

Soups, 59 

to Bone Fowls, 225 

Uses of Left-Overs, 218 
Pound Cake, 455 
Pralines, Holiday, 506 

Pistachio, 507 
Preserve Making, 525 
Princess Lemon Pie, 451 
Prune Jelly, 538 

and Marron Salad, 351 

Molded, 576 

Nutted, 575 

Pie, 449 

Salad, 350 

Sherbet, 402 

Souffle, 576 

Soup, 84 

Whip, 439 
Prussian Sauce, 358 
Puddings, 387, 415-422. 483. 484 

Brown Betty, 583 

for Children, 577 

Sauces, 423, 424 

Yorkshire, 402 
Puff Balls, 467 
Puff Paste, 442, 444 
Pumpkin Pie, 453 

Preserve, 534 

Punch, 517 
Punches, 516-520 

Fresh Frozen Milk, 485 
Pur6e, 54, 71, 72, 74. 75 



Quail Boiled in Butter, 228 
Queen Cakes, 459 
Queen of Pudding, 420 
Quick Biscuit, 396 
Quick Hot Breads, 393 
Quick Pickles, 543 
Quinces, 439, 532, 549 



Rabbit Pie, 226 
Soup, 62 
Stew, 226 



Radishes, Creamed, 298. 

Notes on, 298 
Raisin, Boiled, Pudding, 421 

Pie, 450 
Rare Trifles for the Table, 254- 

264 
Rarebit Omelet, 368 
Raspberry Bavarian Cream, 432 
Exquisite, 439 
Ice, 495 

Cream, 481 
Rings, 488 
Soup, 82 

and Strawberry Salad, 361 
Vinegar, 522 
Red Cabbage, 277 

Snapper k la Carbon, 105 

k la Newburg, 106 
Baked, 104 
Chops, 105 
Chowder, 155 
in Aspic, 125 
Molded, 123 
Planked, 105 
Salad, 328 
Relishes, 34-36 

Notes on, 27 
Rennet Custard, 412 
Rheumatic Diets, 561 
Rhubarb Fool, 412 
Fresh, Salad, 349 
Fritters, 430 
Jelly, 540 
Omelet, 373 
and Orange Jam, 533 
Pie, 452 
Pudding, 421 
Sherbet, 492 
Shortcake, 425 
Rice, Fried, 318 

Dishes, Notes on, 316 
Fritters, 318 
Gems, 397 
Gruel, 556 
Milanese, 318 
Pancakes, 406 
Pilau, 317 
Pudding, 421 

Frozen, 490 
Soup, 78, 572 
to Boil, 317 
Waffles, 403 

and Cheese Custard, 410 
Carrots Jellied, 311 
Hot Honey, 318 
Peaches, 575 



630 



Index 



Ripe Olive Omelet, 370 
Rocky Mountain Sauce, 423 
Roast Beef, 179, 612 

Crown or Rack, 201 

Pig. 205 

Pork, 204 

Vegetarian, 308 
Roasting in Camp, 603 
Robert Sauce, 247 
Roe Herring, 154 

Shad, 103, 327 
Rolls, Egg, 396 

Parker House, 399 
Roly-Poly Mince Pudding, 422 
Romaine Salad, 333 
Roquefort Cheese and Endive 
Salad, 338 

Cup, 514 

Leaf Jam, 538 
Royal Icing, 465 
Rum Punch, 516 
Rusk, 395 
Russian Bortsch (Soup), 70 

Canap6, 32 

Cream, 432 

Mayonnaise, 356 

Meat Salad, 329 

Pancakes, 407 

Relish, 35 
Rye Bread, 393 



Saffron Curry Sauce, 320 

Sage, to Dry, 260 

Sago Soup, 79 

Salad, Balls Deviled, 338 
Canned, Making of, 341 
Chapon (for Salad Bowl), 

325 

Dressings and Sauces, 354- 
360 

for Children, 570 
Fried, 335 
Frozen Cheese, 339 
Garnishes, Notes on, 259 
Jellied, 345-348 
Notes on, 324 
Pat6, 165 
Puffs, 332 
Spring, 582 

Vinegars, for Summer, 550 
of Cheese, 337 to 341 

Eggs, 337-341 

Fish, 325-329 



Fruit, 348-353 
Meat, 329-332 
Nuts, 337-341 
Vegetables, 332-337 
Salade au Nid, 341 
Salianka, 80 
Sally Lunn, 395 
Salmon k la Carbon, 97 
Genevese, 96 

Boiled, 96 

Cakes, 96 

Cutlets, 97 

Deviled, 98 

Pickled (Cold), 125, 126 

in Ramekins, 97 

Souffle, 97 

Soup, 52 

Vernon, 124 
Salsify Soup, 77 

Pat6s, Mock Fish, 299 

to Boil, 298 
Salt nuts, to, 384 
Sandwich Fillings, 594-601, 60s 

for All Occasions, 593 

Jelly, 580 

Surprise, 592 

Sweet, 597 
Sardine Canapd, 32 

Omelet, 152 

Sauce, 243 

and Grapefruit (Canape), 28 

and Scrambled Eggs, 364 
Sauce, Art of Making, 233 
Sauces, 235, 257 

to be Served with Fish, 238 
Game, 243-248 
Ice Cream, 485 
Meat, 243-248 
Poultry, 243-248 
Puddings, 423, 424 
Salads, 354-360 

"Honey Love," 485 

Mandalay, 358 

Piquant, 247, 358 

Tomato, 237 

Violette, 359 

White, 236 
Sausage^ la Malaga, 154 

Creamed, 155 

French, 156 

Meat, 205 

Pasty, 207 

Puffs, 155 

Stufl5ng, 232 
Savory Canape, 28 

Cherokees, 158 



Index 



631 



Sa.vory— Continued 

Marrow Bones, 155 

Stiiffing, 230 
bcallops, Blanquette, 15S 

en Casserole, 146 

Mock, III 

Notes on, 146 

Salad, 326 

Soup, 49 
School Luncheons, 580 
Scones, Scotch, 397 
Scotch Short Bread, 401 

Cakes, 402 

Mutton Broth, 48 

Oat Cakes, 401 

Scones, 397 

Woodcock, 364 
Scottish Soup, 67 
Sea Foam Sauce, 487 
Serving Meals, 6 
Serving of Mutton, 440-442 
Shad, Baked, loi 

Belgian Stuffed, 104 

Broiled, loo 

Cakes, 102 

Creamed with Asparagus, 102 

Creole, 103 

Escalloped, 102 

Molded, 125 

Peppers, 103 

and Pineapple Salad, 329 

Planked, loi 

Roe, 103 

Salad, 327 
Shallit, Jewish, 450 
Shalot, Vinegar, 550 
Shell fish. Choosing and Preparing 

of, 128 
Sherbets, Notes on, 490 
Short Bread, 401 
Shortcakes, 424-426 

k la Panchard, 424 

Chicken, 213 
Shrimp, Aspic Salad, 348 

Bisque, 53 

Canap^, 31 

Creamed, 137 

Notes on, 137 

Scalloped, 138 

Spanish Fricassee, 138 

Tarts, 138 

and Potato Salad, 344 
Sick-Room Hints, 555 
Silver Cake, 458 
Silverware, Care of, 17 

Cleaning, 20 



Simnel Cake, 471 

Simple Menus, 569 

Skate Soup, 49 

Slaw, Hot Cabbage, 277 

Small Cakes, 466-473 

Smelts, Fried, n6 

Snails, Notes on, 147 

Snapper, Red, Chowder, 55 

Snippi Doodles, 469 

Soda Water, Home Made, 521 

Sole, Filet of, 112, 113 

Solferino Soup, 43 

Solid Chocolate Cake, 456 

Sorrel Soup, 67 

Soubise (French Onion Sauce), 

245 
Soup Stocks, Fish, 40 

Red, 38 

Vegetable, 40 

Wlute, 39 
Soups, 37-92 

k la Cantatrice, 44 

h. la Reine, 59 

Cereal, 77 

Cold, 80 

Concentrated (for Camping), 
604 

Conserve, 41 

Cream and Pur^e, 71 

Dumplings, 89 

Pish, 48 

Fruit, 83 

Game, 59 

Garnishes, 87 

Jellied, 80 

Meat, 41 

Notes on, 37 

Nut, 83 

Poultry, 59 

Vegetable, 63 
Sour Cream Sauce, 307 

Roast, 180 
Southern Pickle, 547 
Soy, 544 
Spaghetti k la Turque, 321 

Buttered, 321 

Cutlets, 320 

in Tomato Aspic, 321 

Italian, 320 

Notes on, 319 
Spanish Cake, 457 

Cream, 433 

Fritters, 171 

Mackerel, 122 

Omelet, 368 

Onions Baked, 287 



632 



Index 



Spanish — Continued 

Pickles, 548 

Relish, 259 

Soup, 85 
Spice Bag, to Make a, 543 

Cakes, 474 

Hot, 248 
Spiced Vinegar (Sweet), 551 
Spinach Coloring, 258 

Loaf, 301 

Pui^e, 75 

Relish, for Salad Course, 

259 

Soufla6, 301 

Soup, 70 

to Wash and Boil, 300 

with Macaroni, 320 

with Marrons, 302 
Sponge Cake, 456, 578 

Jelly, 460 
Sprouts, Brussels, Escalloped, 

275 
Squab Boned, 224 

Broiled, 223 

Cookery, 222 

en Casserole, 224 

Pried, 224 

Salad, 332 

Stewed, 224 
Squash Hubbard, 300 

Italian, Notes on, 299 
Steaks k la Creole, 188 

en Casserole, 189 

Hamburger, 612 

Notes en Cooking and Serv- 
ing, 187 

Sauce for, 247 

See Beef. 

with Mushrooms, 189 
Stew, Brown, 184 

Dumplings, 89 

Irish, 199 

Kidney, 183 
Stock Pot, 37 
Strawberries, Candied, 506 

Cocktail, 513 

Cream, 433 

Frozen, 482 

Ice, 495 

Jam, 538 

Mousse, 497 

Onielet, 372 

Parfait, 493 

and Raspberry Salad, 351 

Sauce, 486 

Shortcake, 426 



String Beans, Baked, 274 
Cuban Style, 272 
to Boil, 274 
Strudel Austrian Apple, 427 

Cheese, 380 
Stuffed Olives, Home, 261 

Fowls, 209 
Stuffings, 230-233 
Succotash, 302 
Suet Dumplings, 91 

Pudding, 422 
Supreme of Fruits, 437 
Swan Cocktail, 511 
Sweet Cream Dressing, 357 
Sweet Fritters, 428-430 

Omelets, 371-373 

Pickled Bananas, 546 
Peppers, 546 

Pickles, 546 

Potatoes Glazed, 297 
with Sherry, 297 

See Potatoes 

Stuffing, 233 

and Sour Sauce for Steak, 
247 

Spiced Vinegar, 551 
Sweetbread k la Port, 161 

and Chestnut Paste, 592 

and Lobster en Casserole, 130 

and Marrons, 154 

and Mushrooms, 161, 195 

Baked, Salad, 331 

Entree, 161 

Fritters, 170 

Lamb's, 200 

Notes on, 192 

Olives, 160 

Pat6, 162 

Savory Cherokees, 158 
Swiss Chicken Salad, 330 

Steak, 186 
Syllabub, 41 1 



Table Linens, 1 1 

for Veranda, 13 
perfuming of, 15 
to Remove Stains from, 

13 
Tangerine Preserves, 533 
Tansy Salad, 337 
Tapioca Soup, 78 

Custard, 411 

Jelly, 310, 572 
Tarts, 428-430 



Index 



633 



Tea, Notes on, 509, 560 

Cake, 459 

Frozen Beef, 81 
Tenderloins Roast and Stuffed, 
206 

Sherry, 153 
Terrapin, How to Prepare, 228 
Testing Fish, 93 
Thousand Island Dressing, 358 
Tilefish, Baked, 98 

Boiled, 99 

Cakes, 99 

EscaUoped, 100 

Filet of, 100 

In Cucumber Jelly, 124 

Rataplan, 100 

Turbot, 99 
Tipsy Salad, 352 
To Brown Flour, 260 

Dry Sage, 260 

Frost Holly Leaves, 261 
Toad in Hole, 156 , 
Toast Bombay, 120 

Cinnamon, 573 

Cream, 573 

Water, 559 
Tomato Aspic, Spaghetti in, 321 

Baskets, 257 

Bisque, 76 

Chowehow, 547 

Canap^ (Cold), 33 

Chutney, 545 

Curry, 237 

Eggs, 363 

Figs, 549 

Fried, 302 

Green Mincemeat, 547 

Pie, 450 
Jelly, 345, 539 
Ketchup, 552 
Sauce, 237 
Soup (Simple), 581 

Cream of, 76 

Fresh, 69 
Soy (Ripe), 544 
Stewed (Fresh), 303 
Stuffed, 303 

as a garnish, 259 
Tongue, Boiled, 193 
Polish stewed, 153 
Smoked, 185 
Turnovers, 160 
Trifles, Notes on English, 412 
Tripe, 186 

h la Creole, 160 
k la Poulette, 157 



Creole Pat^s, 165 
Hood of. Roasted, 193 
Trotters, 199 
Truffles, k I'ltalienne, 306 
and Ham, 306 
au Naturel, 305 
Baked, 307 
Salad, 337 
Tuna Fish, Baked in Peppers, 122 
Croquettes, 121 
EscaUoped, 121 
Fritters, 169 
Loaf, 121 
Mignon, 123 
Pasties, 120 

and Pineapple Pat6, 164 
Tunny Fish in Tomato Sauce, 36 
Turkey, Use of Left-Overs, 218 
Deviled Legs, 219 
Roasting of, 218, 231, 232 
Soup, 62 
Turkish Delight, 503 
Paste, 503 
StuflSng, 231 
Turnip Croquettes, 304 
Fried, 303 
Notes on, 303 
Pie, 304 
Salad, 347 
Stuffed, 304 
Yellow, 304 
Turtle Soup (Green), 53 

Mock Soup, 45 
Tutti Frutti, 479 

Cheese, 380 
Jar, The, 536 
Jelly, 433 

U 

Unleavened Bread, 400 
Up-Side-Downie Cakes, 467 
Use of Left-Overs, 218 



Vanilla Ice Cream, 577, 478 
Veal, Boiled Calf's Head, 191 

Bulgarian Chops, 194 

Calf's Liver, 191 

Croquettes, 196 

Cutlets, 191 

en Casserole, 195 

and Ham Pie, 192 

Joints, 176 

Notefe on, 190 



634 



Index 



Veal — Continued 

Polish Chops, 193 

Ragout, 612 

Roast Filet of, 190 

Salad, 330 

Sweetbreads, 192, 195 
Vegetable Fritters, 168 

Mac^doine, 163, 311 
for Children, 591 

Marrow, 307 
Soup, 69 
Baked, 307 
Sweet Pickled, 548 

Salads, 332-337 

Soups, 63 

Stuffing for Fish, loi 
Vegetables, Chinese, 312 

in Jelly, 309 

Notes on, 265-269 
Vegetarian Roast, 308 
Venetian Bread Caies, 405 
Vermicelli, Notes on, 322 

Custard, 322 

Soup, 79 
Victoria Sandwiches, 468 
Vinegar Candy, 502 

for Summer Salads, 550 

W 

Waffles, 403, 404 
Wahiut Fritters, 387 

Gravy, 248 

Ketchup, 554 

Kisses, 468 



Washington Cakes, 459 

Martha, Chowder, 54 

Pie, 4^3 
Water Chestnuts, 385 

Icing, 465 

Ices, Notes on, 490 
Watermelon Boat, 489 

Jelly, 441 , 

Rind Pickled, 545 

Squares, 441 

Sandwiches, 441 

Serving of, 440 
Weakfish, Bombay Toast, 120 

Pudding, 120 
Welsh Nectar, 521 

Rarebit, 379 
West Indian Pudding, 422 
Wheat Cakes, 404 
White Mushroom Sauce, 248 

Sauce, 236 
Wine Cups, 514, 515 

Jelly, 557 

Mulled, 515 

Whey, 560 
Wintergreen Bonbons, 506 



Yellow Turnips, 304 
Yorkshire Pudding, 402 



Zwieback, Venetian, 574 



M Selection from the 
Catalogue of 

G. P. PUTNAM'S SONS 



Complete Catalogues sent 
on application 



The Myrtle Reed 
Cook Book 

16 . 512 pages, $1,50 

"Olive Green" on the series of 
books issued under that designa- 
tion of authorship has brought joy 
to many a jaded appetite. Few 
have suspected that under that 
nom de plume was concealed the 
identity of Myrtle Reed, author 
of " Lavender and Old Lace," 
•• Spinner in the Sun," and many 
other popular novels. The Myrtle 
Reed Cook Book is, in its field, as 
alluring a volume as are, in fiction, 
the novels of this author. 



G. P. Putnam's Sons 

New York London 



The AlUed Cookery 
Manual 

By 
Grace Clergue Harrison 

and 

Gertrude Clergue 

/2°. Boards, 75 cents net 

A compilation of the most seductive 
dishes native to the French, Italian, 
Russian, and Belgian. This volume is 
published in aid of the war sufferers in 
devastated districts in France. The 
book is prefaced by Stephen Leacock, 
and also contains an Introduction by 
the Hon. Raoul Dandurand, Com- 
mandeur de la Legion de Honneur. 

G. P. Putnam's Sons 

New York London 



y^ .'.H'" 



I T'l 




COOK. BOOK 

91 Giiide^r Selecting, 
Cooking and Serving 

for the Home Tabic 



.^ETIE YOUNG NORTON 



r^ 



X'' 



'^OObAt)^ 



"n^ 









Elizabeth Fund 




Boston Public Library 

Do not write in ^tliis book or mark it with pen or 
pencil. Penalties for so doing are imposed by the 
Revised Laws of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts. 


This hook tea 
last statnped he 


t issurd to the hoTrower »n the dmte 


11 ,\ '<•: ... 







































































































B. P. L. FORK HO. C0>: l«.2«.S2: ItOH. 



Mrs. Norton's 
Gook-Book 



Selecting, Cooking, and Serving for 
the Home Table 



By 

Jeannette Young Norton 



G. P. Putnam's Sons 

New York and London 

XLbc Unickerbocfter press 

1917 



Copyright, 1917 



JEAXNETTE YOUNG NORTON 

^:^^ f^ /f fj 



Ubc ftnicfserboclser press, ■!*€» KocR 



This Book is Lovingly Dedicated to 
MY SOX 

WHOSE APPRECIATIVE ENTHUSIASM INSPIRED THE WRITING. 



PREFACE 

In presenting this voliime to the public I want to 
acknowledge my gratitude to my friends among master 
marketmen in all branches, prominent chefs, and good home 
cooks, all of whom have willingly and generously aided me 
in all ways possible. 

I have tried to make this a cook book, pure and simple, 
avoiding all reference to, and rules of, chemistry, feeling 
that the pupils of the schools of domestic science have 
all such information and their training will enable them 
to adapt any desired recipe to fit their own chemical 
measurements. The lay woman would not ordinarily use 
such information if it were given. 

Feeling that all women would prefer to find adequate 
information as to season, time of cooking, and so on, directly 
with the recipe for the cooking of that particular food, I have 
incorporated all information in that way — with each recipe 
— rather than in separate tables. 

Believing the question of temperance to be a purely 
personal one, I have included wines and liquors in various 
recipes, where their presence is considered by culinary 
experts to be a decided improvement in the flavoring of 
the dish. 

As fashions in table decorations change with the seasons, 
I have decided to omit from these pages pictures of set 
tables. 

This book is the outcome of twenty-five years of experi- 
ence in cooking and testing foods. Many of these recipes 
have already appeared in magazines and newspapers 
throughout the United States. 



vi Preface 

Good cooking does not consist in the preparation of 
highly seasoned foods designed to pamper perverted 
appetites, but in cooking the simple things in a palatable 
way. To become a good cook one must love the work and 
never find it too hard or disagreeable, and must be impervi- 
ous to heat or cold. The impatient cook will soon wake 
to the fact that everything in the kitchen reflects her mood, 
and usually failure will be the result. The cheery cook, 
who looks upon her work as an art to be cultivated and 
learned, is bound to succeed. Cheeriness is infectious, and 
it will span the distance between her kitchen and her 
tradesmen's shops, with the result that they will all strive 
to do their best in her service. 

In using this book every recipe and the instructions 
about it should be carefully read before attempting the 
making of the dish selected. 

A carefully prepared index will be found at the back of 
the book. 

May all my sister-women who use this book find in it 
solutions for their culinary problems, and may success 
attend their earnest endeavors, is the cordial wish of, 



Jeannette Young Norton. 



New York, 

January, 1917. 



CONTENTS 



PART I.— GENERAL INFORMATION 

Cooking by Coal, Gas, and Electricity . 
Serving Meals ....... 

Care of Table Linens . . . . , 

Care of Silverware and Cut Glass 
Measuring Tables ...... 

For the Home Cook's Important Consideration 

PART II.— RECIPES 
Canapes and Relishes 
Soups 

Soup Garnishes 
Fish .... 
Crustacea, Mollusks 
Entrees 
Art of Carving 
Meats 

Beef 

Veal 

Mutton and Lamb 

Pork 



3 
6 

9 
17 
23 

24 
27 

37 
87 
93 

128 

150 

173 
177 
177 
190 
196 
202 



Vlll 



Contents 









PAGE 


Poultry 208 


Game 






. 227 


Stuffings, Sauces, and Gravies 






230 


Food Garnishes and their Making 






250 


Rare Trifles for the Table 






254 


Vegetables ..... 






265 


Chinese Vegetables 






312 


Cereals ...... 






314 


Macaroni and Spaghetti 






318 


Salads ..... 






324 


Salad Dressings and Sauces 






. 354 


Dairy Products: 








Eggs 






. 361 


Milk, Cream, and Butter 






. 373 


Cheese 






. 376 


Nuts 






. 382 


Bread Making and Breads 






. 389 


Quick Hot Breads . 






■ 393 


Waffles and Pancakes . 






• 403 


Desserts and Sauces . 






. 409 


Shortcakes .... 






. 424 


Tarts and Fritters 






. 428 


Jellied Desserts . 






. 430 


Fruit Desserts 






. 434 


Pies and Pastry Making 






. 442 



Contents 



IX 



Cakes, Cake Making; Fillings 


AND Icings 




PAGE 

455 


Home-Made Ice Creams 


. 477 


Sherbets and Ices 








490 


Mousses .... 








496 


Candy .... 








499 


Beverages ..... 








508 


Preserving and Pickling . 








525 


Invalid Cookery 








555 


Nursery Diet 








565 


Child Cookery . 








581 


Children's Parties 








584 


School Luncheons 








589 


Sandwich Making; Fillings 








593 


Camp Cookery . 








602 


Casserole Cookery . 








608 


Index .... 








615 



PART I 
General Information 



COOKING BY COAL, GAS, AND ELECTRICITY 

Cooking with a coal range, while it gives the best results 
of any cooking medium, is the most troublesome. The 
cook must understand every part of the range, the exact 
quantity of the chimney draught, and just what the range will 
do under all conditions. It must be thoroughly cleaned and 
the fire brick be kept free of clinkers if it is to do its best 
work. This is satisfactorily done by purchasing two 
pounds of zinc scraps from the tinsmith and strewing them 
over the top of a bright burning fire. They will soon dis- 
appear in white fumes of zinc oxide which will clean away 
all soot from stove and chimney as well as a sweep would 
do the job. There are many good coal ranges on the market 
but the one that is most highly favored is that with the 
gauze oven door. The writer speaks from experience, 
having used one steadily for sixteen years, and during that 
time never had things more deliciously cooked in an oven 
or a thing burned except on one or two occasions when it 
was from carelessness and not due to the range conditions. 

Gas. When cooking with the modern gas stove there are 
a few regular rules that must be obeyed. When the stove 
is placed it should like a coal stove have a pipe running from 
it into a chimney in order to carry off all poisonous gases. 
When lighting the stove for use of the oven open the doors 
to liberate any gas that may be confined there, light the 
pilot light, then turn on one oven burner at a time and make 
sure they are lighted, then turn off the pilot, close the doors, 
and allow the oven to heat to the desired temperature 
before using. When broiling, leave the door of the broiler 

3 



4 CooKin^ by Coal, Gas, and Electricity 

open. When baking many cooks put a basin of water into 
the oven to supply moisture to the hot air. It is also a wise 
precaution to have the range tested and looked to by the 
gas man once in three months, to regulate the draughts and 
general things that may need an expert's eye. The asbestos 
pads are handy to keep things from burning on the gas 
holes, or those of perforated steel with a double bottom are 
good. An asbestos glove is nice to use while basting foods 
as it protects the hand and forearm from the heat. While 
cooking by gas is very handy and a good method, the cook 
must make up her mind to stay in the kitchen while the 
cooking is going on or run the risk of accidents of various 
kinds. The flame is not always dependable like the coal 
fire and one never knows just how to gauge it to leave for 
any length of time. 

Electricity. The coal range and the gas range have each 
marked a step towards cooking perfection, but the electric 
range seems to have distanced all previous methods. Elec- 
tric cooking is no longer confined to the very wealthy homes 
or to those where there is a man who understands electricity, 
but is available to everybody. The price of the current 
is now low enough to make it practical, and the control of 
heat used has been perfected. The operator at each burner 
commands three degrees of heat at the turn of a simple 
switch. There is no waste and the degree is always the 
same. No heat can escape from the oven for it is planned 
on the principle of the fireless cooker and is heavily insulated 
to retain the heat. It is flameless and safe cooking, with 
no smoke, soot, or ash. The oven may be regulated by the 
thermometer set in the door. Among the good features 
of the electric range are many, one being that the oven is 
on a level with the cooking hole plate where it is very easy 
to get at what is cooking. Underneath there is a shelf 
which serves as a hot table on which foods may be kept 
warm while dishing up the meals. 

There are many arguments for and against the use of the 



CooKin^ by Coal, Gas, and Electricity 5 

fireless cookers, but no matter which of the many kinds on 
the market are used they all have to have the foods to be 
cooked in them started on a range, that is all but the 
electric cooker. 

The electric fireless cooker is said to roast, bake, boil, 
fry, steam, and stew equally well. It is attached to the 
electric current also by an ordinary socket plug, and at the 
end of thirty minutes the current is automatically discon- 
tinued. The cooking goes on as long as desired. A num- 
ber of things may be cooked at the same time, as in other 
styles of fireless cookers. 

The electric frying pan is operated by a socket plug, 
so it may be used right on the breakfast table if desired, 
as the electric toaster is used. It may also be inverted on 
its stand to become a disk stove, upon which other utensils 
may be heated. The current runs through the hollow 
handle. 



SERVING MEALS 

The five-course dinner is the one generally served to-day, 
with the eight courses for state occasions. The instruc- 
tions given here for laying the table and a few words as to 
waiting may be used for luncheons, dinners, and formal 
breakfasts. After putting on the felt silence cloth cover 
it with the tablecloth. Place the centerpiece, flowers, 
candles, and other decorations next. Arrange about the 
center the relishes, salted nuts, and bonbons in cut glass, 
silver, or fancy dishes. Put a service plate at each place 
and lay the folded napkin at the left, the knives at the 
right, the blades turned toward the plate; the one next 
the plate is the dessert knife, next the meat knife, then 
the fish knife, and then the soup spoon, and the oyster, 
clam, or snail fork is laid across them diagonally. On 
the left side the mating forks are laid, with an extra one for 
the entree. As butter is seldom served at dinner the plate 
and spreader are omitted, but if used they head the forks, 
while the water and wine glasses head the knives. The 
individual salt cellars head the plate; if the tiny castors are 
used then one is placed between each two guests. 

The dinner roll or soup stick may be folded in the napkin 
if desired. As course replaces course the waitress removes 
the plate with her left hand, replacing the fresh one with her 
right hand, so that the place is never empty until the table 
is crumbed for the sweet course. 

In modern dinner parties the cocktails and relishes are 
eaten in the drawing-room before dinner is announced, thus 
allowing fifteen minutes for the arrival of a belated guest. 

6 



Serving Meals 7 

The coffee and bonbons are also served in the drawing-room 
after dinner. 

In serving at home or informal dinners the hostess is 
always served first, at formal affairs the guest of honor, who 
usually sits at the host's right hand, is served first, then the 
hostess and the other guests. At most fashionable dinners 
the meat or game is carved in the butler's pantry and passed; 
or if the dish is very unusually cooked and garnished it is 
set for a few minutes before the host so it can be seen, then 
it is removed to the sideboard or side table and carved. 

During the meat course the waitress must see that the 
bread is passed and that a second helping of vegetables is 
offered to each guest. In passing the vegetables she grasps 
the dish firmly in her left hand and holds it close down to the 
edge of the plate and conveniently near for the guests to 
serve themselves without difficulty. 

Serving dinner with one maid or without a maid requires 
careful calculation and a very restricted number of guests 
if it is to be a success. Of course the foods can be well 
planned and ready to serve in their regular order but the 
serving is the rub. The hostess must sit in the place where 
she makes least confusion going to and fro from the kitchen, 
and in this case good sized trays or a wheeled server are 
allowable. 

It is much easier to give three or four parties to a limited 
number if one must do it without help than one large and 
confusing affair. In fact an elaborate dinner is an abomi- 
nation if it is not well cooked and perfectly served. 

Children are debarred from formal dinners until they 
are quite well grown, which is a wise provision and lessens 
many complications. 

Dinner invitations are sent out two weeks in advance, 
and should be accepted or regrets sent within three or four 
days. 

Cocktails and relishes are served in the drawing-room. 
Oysters or clams on the half shell, or a canape precede the 
soup at table. Next the fish or an entree. Then the meat 



8 Serving Meals 

and vegetables. Then the dinner may be broken with an 
ice. Then the game course, next the salad, with which the 
crackers and cheese are offered, then the pudding, or frozen 
dainties, the coffee and bonbons being served in the 
drawing room. 



TABLE LINENS 

The modern woman has learned to take such pride in her 
linen closet and such good care of her linens that it is not 
an extravagance to add a few new pieces to her stock each 
season. She now keeps that which is not in everyday use 
folded in well blued linen cloths, the lace and embroidered 
centerpieces rolled on padded rollers, and her very fine 
doilies basted on soft cushions. The matron who enter- 
tains often must keep her table appointments up to the 
standard set by fashion; beyond that she may allow herself 
even a dash of originality, but the changes of fashions in 
laces, sizes of napkins and doilies, patterns of damasks and 
marking of the linen, are details wherein her knowledge 
must be kept up to the moment. Authority may vary in 
different^localities on some points in linen fashions, but the 
exclusive shops are good guides and it is safe to follow their 
advice in the main selection. 

The elegant dinner cloth of to-day is of lace and finest 
linen. Point de Venise lace is combined with Venetian 
embroidery and outwork or with the Italian Reticella work 
in the most elaborate and expensive cloths. There are 
round cloths with filet medallions and an eighteen-inch 
fall below the table. For luncheon, if the lace cloth is to be 
used, it comes in size to exactly fit the top of the table, to be 
used without doilies, or in a set of centerpiece, size 27 or 
29 inches in diameter, and plate, butter-plate, and glass 
doilies. Which to use is a matter of taste only. The same 
cloths may be had in the square shape if one's table is 
square, and it is permissible to have an under-cloth of satin 
to match the color of the floral decorations. The "chem- 

9 



lO Table Linens 

in" or table runner to use on the Abbey tables is to be had 
in the same elaborate lace patterns. These lace tablecloths 
are rarely marked, as the lace and embroidery cover nearly 
all the available surface; sometimes, however, they are 
marked in little one-inch letters simply for identification 
in case of loss. 

With the fashion of serving the cocktail and relish in the 
drawing-room before dinner, and the serving of coffee and 
cordial in the same way after dinner, the tiny cocktail and 
tea or coffee napkins have become necessities. The former 
are six inches square, with one corner embroidered with a 
tiny strutting "Chantecler" in white or in colors, or a 
lace inset butterfly with a lace edge around the napkin. 
The tea or coffee napkins are a trifle larger, but embroidered 
and finished in the same way. With the lace cloths, the 
lace-edged napkins with one corner embroidered are used, 
and they are in what is called medium size; in fact, the 
dinner napkins now in general use are this size, as Americans 
do not seem to care for the 30-inch size popular in France. 

The plain linen damask dinner cloth, with or without 
the double satin border, still leads the fashion. Such cloths 
when oblong have four monograms or sets of initials. Two 
at the sides are placed with the tops of the letters 15 
inches from the center of the cloth, to allow for a center- 
piece 27 inches in diameter, and the end monograms 
are placed about 18 inches from each end of the table. 
The letters are from two to four inches high, according to 
fancy. The round cloth has two monograms, one at each 
end of the center. In some instances the initials appear on 
diagonal corners of the cloth and in one corner of the 
napkin, but the newest way is to mark the center of the 
napkin, folding the ends under to show the elaborate in- 
itials. The oblong doilies, to use for plate, glass, and butter- 
plate, are used, but are not as fashionable as the three 
separate ones for the same purpose. 

The favorite patterns seem to be the three-inch diagonal 
and length-wise stripes of satin and plain damask, with 



Table Linens II 

conventionalized borders that are six or eight inches wide. 
One with moire satin and damask stripes four inches wide 
has a handsome Grecian border. Of the newest offerings 
in pattern damask there are the "ermine," the "laurel and 
acorn," "thistle and scroll," "Celtic and block," "empire 
and block," and the floral patterns. The stems in these 
floral patterns start at the edges or ends and corners of the 
cloth. One odd cloth is of plain damask with an immense 
bunch of American Beauty roses stretching diagonally 
across the cloth, tied with a satin woven bowknot. 

The beautiful lace cloths are made mostly in Germany, 
in the Black Forest, where the makers are expert in the 
Weikel and mosaic drawnwork. These cloths are best 
dry-cleaned and then laid away in deeply-blued muslin 
cloth. The formal dinner cloths, like the centerpieces, 
are rolled so there are no creases, while the everyday 
cloths may be folded. 

Four distinctly new patterns in table linens are worth 
calling attention to. One is a new version of the "rose and 
bowknot" design. The roses, large and exquisitely natural, 
are gathered in big bunches, garlanded by the satiny bow- 
knots around the cloth in irregular wreath fashion above 
the three-inch border of feathery maidenhair fern, so that 
the blooms lay upon the table top, finishing just outside the 
centerpiece. 

A new "Adams" cloth has the familiar oval medallion 
design arranged to form a prim but fascinating border that 
should set off the family silver to great advantage. A 
"Jacobean" cloth has a formal heavy architectural design 
which is quite as somber as the furniture from which it is 
taken, and it makes a most formal appearing dinner cloth. 
The pattern is so arranged that it extends on to the table 
top, so that the centerpiece which is to be used with it must 
be chosen with great care to be in harmony with this dig- 
nified cloth. 

A Grecian key and laurel wreath design is not nearly 
as formal as the other patterns. A new version of the 



12 Table Linens 

striped cloth has the broad moire pattern stripes running 
diagonally across the table with a rather severe conven- 
tionalized floral border. An odd cloth has a laurel circu- 
lar band which lies upon the top of the table, and is almost 
reached by bunches of bluebells and poppies tied together 
with bowknots. 

Very attractive is the plain linen luncheon cloth, which 
is hemstitched and tape bordered, with mitered hem. There 
are napkins to match this cloth. One of the most attractive 
cloths has baskets of fruit swinging by ribbons from a 
wreath in the center, and below there is a garland of grape 
leaves with bunches of grapes depending toward the bottom 
of the cloth. 

The ribbon trellis pattern should be used without a center- 
piece other than flowers. Two-inch satin stripes run from 
hem to hem each way, forming the four-inch trellis blocks. 

The tablecloth of plain damask with four-inch satin 
border is still the fashion leader. Linen men, however, all 
prophesy a decided change in patterns in the near future, 
as Egyptian designs are promised, with the Sphinx, Ara- 
besques, dragons, and all sorts of unusual figures which will, 
for a time, cast the flowers and fruit, the ribbons and wreaths, 
even our grandmother's "snowdrop," into the shade. 

Worn tablecloths are a great tax on the housewife's 
ingenuity, for they seem to be naturally depraved and are 
always getting themselves torn in the most impossible 
places, acquiring spots without seeming provocation, and 
in almost a night showing a perforation of fine holes that 
are a problem for the finest of cobweb darners. A patched 
tablecloth is an abomination in the sight of the particular 
housekeeper, so when they wear out in the center she feels 
justified in cutting the edges up for home breakfast or serv- 
ing napkins and joyfully filling its place with a new one. 
If cloths are torn beyond redemption they may be cut into 
tray cloths for everyday use. One way to mend the diffi- 
culty is to take some small Irish crochet ornaments and 
cover the holes in a special design which gives the cloth a 



Table L-inexis 13 

new lease of life. Another way is to cut away the holes the 
size of fifty-cent pieces and fill them in with an embroidered 
cobweb design. A third way is to cut out the entire worn 
center and appliqu6 a Japanese embroidered centerpiece in 
the opening, making doilies to match, and thus a most 
attractive luncheon set of the erstwhile wreck is made. 

If the year is started with six new tablecloths and they 
are used in rotation it is astonishing how long a time they 
will last, if fair care is taken in the laundering. The round 
cloths, while very pretty to use on the popular round tables, 
are very difficult to launder and have them keep their shape 
unless they are done by an expert. 

Linens Set Apart for the Veranda. Most popular for 
this use are the plain art linens, which come in many of 
the softer pastel shades, as well as in the nut-browns and 
purples. The cloths are finished with the Grecian knotted 
fringe eight inches deep and braided about four inches, and 
they are weighted at each corner with little linen-covered 
lead weights to defy stray breezes. These can be removed 
when the cloths are laundered. The napkins to match are 
coarsely hemstitched; some of the linens are marked with 
four-inch cross-stitch initials that are quite effective and 
are not difficult to do. 

To Take Stains from Linen. Stains on the table linen in 
the berry season are among the summer trials of the house- 
keeper. Of course the careful housewife looks out for this 
and puts away her best table linen, but even the second best 
looks much dotted with brown stains and destroys the 
dainty appearance of the summer table. One has to be 
very alert to catch the spotted pieces before they reach the 
laundry, for the moment soap and water touch them the 
damage is done. 

If the spotted portion of the linen is laid over a bowl and 
boiling water poured through it, this will remove the more 
innocent stains; but for the dark berry stains, and those 



14 Table Linens 

which do not respond to the boiHng water, stretch the linen, 
light sulphur matches beneath it and let the smoke pass 
through the stain. The sulphur fumes will remove it. 
Of course this must be carefully done, so as not to set the 
linen afire. 

An especially good way of removing peach stains is to 
put a tablespoon of flour of sulphur on an old plate, wet 
it with a few drops of alcohol, ignite it and place a tin 
funnel over the burning heap. Have the spot in the linen 
wet with cold water, then hold it over the smoke and the 
spot will disappear at once. 

The mildew on linen, which is carelessly thrown when still 
damp into the hamper, is a' most as trying to the housewife 
as are the berry stains. For the mildew, rub the spots with 
yellow soap and powdered chalk; when it is dried, scrape 
it off and continue the applications until the spots are 
removed. 

Ink spots are easily removed from linen by dipping the 
part stained into hot water and then spreading it smoothly 
on the back of a spoon, then pouring a few drops of oxalic 
acid or salts of sorrel over it, rubbing and rinsing in cold 
water until the spots are removed. 

Many fussy housekeepers will not allow their cloths to be 
put into the boiler to boil without first being encased in a 
linen bag or an old pillow slip, for fear of iron rust getting 
upon them in some way. Javel water will remove the rust 
stains, if they are not set by soap; put on the diluted javel 
water and lay the linen in the sun and repeat the process 
until the stains disappear. If the article has been washed 
with soap first it will be a hopeless task. 

Grass stains may be removed by wetting the green spots 
in common molasses and then putting them in the sun. 
Repeat this until the spots are gone. The articles may then 
be washed. 

If one's stock of table linen is limited it is best to stick 
to pure white, even for the centerpieces, for there is nothing 
as bad as faded out glories, that tell of too frequent wash- 



Table I^inens 15 

ings to which their beauty has been sacrificed. The home 
embroidered things are much more durable, and if one has 
time to do them they may be more elaborate than could be 
afforded in any other way. 

The tan table linen done in Russian and Danish patterned 
borders in colors, both in cross-stitch and outline embroid- 
ery, is very decorative; in some cases the color design is 
worked in medallions where the threads have already been 
drawn, which gives the border of the cloth a lacy appearance. 
The edges of these cloths are often finished with lace of 
linen the same color as the cloth. 

Owing to the cessation of imports, particularly from 
Germany, there are not the usual varieties of colored 
damasks or the white cloths with colored borders to 
choose from though there are plenty of the Japanese 
towelings, which are being utilized for the purpose. The 
strips are herring-boned together until they are wide 
enough, then one long piece is made to form the border, 
which is hemstitched. 

Perfuming the Linen. The fancy for perfuming the 
family linen continues to grow. It was the custom in our 
grandmothers' day to lay sprays of sweet basil, lavender, a 
few rose leaves or a bunch of sweet herbs in the linen chest 
to give it a fragrant odor. That was in the day when the 
snowy piles were all hemmed by hand and initialed during 
long evenings under the lamplight, and each piece carefully 
numbered so that all could be accounted for. 

But to-day, when the chest has grown into big linen 
closets with cavernous shelves, it requires an expert to do 
the perfuming, and the cost thereof would have made those 
same grandmothers* hair rise straight up from their heads. 
But this is an extravagant generation, so why quibble over 
one small item? 

The perfumes the expert uses are the delightful, old- 
fashioned ones, such as sweet clover, lemon verbena, la- 
vender, peach leaf, and clove pink. They are made into 



l6 Table Linens 

wonderful sachets of lingerie-covered silk, which are put 
into the centerpiece rolls, doily cases, napkin bags, and in 
the satin covered elastic bands which bind them. The 
blotters behind each shelf are also perfumed. 



CARE OF SILVERWARE AND CUT GLASS 

The modern hostess who attempts to keep pace with 
the fashions of the silversmiths will have not only her hands 
but her sideboard drawers and shelves full, for of the making 
of flat ware there seems no end. Although the formal course 
dinner has been cut to half the former number of courses, 
there seems to be twice as much silver required to serve it 
with. There appears to be a spoon, fork, knife, pick or 
tongs of some sort to serve every known edible. 

However, the more conservative hostesses have decided 
that it is time to call a halt and now lay only silver enough 
for five courses or less, the rest being placed as it is needed. 
This simplifies matters and really makes the table look 
much prettier. The properly laid table in the United 
States now shows, at the right of the plate, two knives, the 
soup spoon and across them the oyster fork. At the left 
are two forks, a teaspoon and the tiny asparagus tongs ; the 
butter spreader rests on the butter plate. Salad forks, 
with their broad tines, come with the salad. The game 
forks, laid with the short curved game knives, are rather 
broad and shorter than the meat forks. Cheese knives, 
that come with the cheese course, are blunt and spatulate 
in shape. The dessert knife may be used as a butter 
spreader, although often at formal dinners butter is not 
now served. 

There are spoons for every purpose, in shapes best fitted 
for what they are designed to serve. The deep, round 
bowled spoons are for botiillon, the sharp pointed bowls for 
the grapefruit and there are the oblong dessert spoons, the 
open-work jelly spoons and the regular teaspoons. Ice- 
cream spoons are used with the ice-cream fork. Where 
a 17 



1 8 Care of Silver>vare and Cvit Glass 

formerly, in serving from the platter, a fork and tablespoon 
did acceptable duty, now each viand has a server peculiarly 
its own. The asparagus has a large pair of broad-tined 
tongs for serving, and small tongs for individual use. 
The sliced tomatoes have a round, flat pair of tongs passed 
with them, so that one may pick up one slice daintily 
at a time. The cucumber has a fork and serving spoon 
of its own; the sardine has a long slender fork; lettuce 
has a fork, while, with the sandwich tray, pretty tongs are 
passed. 

Chafing-dish silver is always especially designed for the 
purpose. There are potato chip servers, pea servers, waffle 
servers, egg servers, arid ladles of all shapes and sizes for 
cream, sauces and gravies, melted butter or jelly, or for the 
popular ice-cream sauces. To be strictly in accord with 
fashion's latest decree, the dessert service of silver is gilded 
over entirely, where formerly the gold-lined bowls of the 
spoons were the thing. 

There are also a number of silver centerpieces used now- 
adays; there is the silver pheasant with spread tail, and 
the humble goose, whose wings may be pushed aside to 
show within a receptacle for salted nuts. 

Those interested in the latest fashions for the table, should 
know that silver platters and vegetable dishes have partly 
superseded those of china. Though the original cost is 
more, the durability is greater. The dainty course dishes 
vary the table enough so that one does not tire of the silver. 
Of course, the entire silver service may be used if one pre- 
fers to do away with the china altogether. Then the plates 
should be those of white Minton china, covered with silver, 
with the rim turned over the edge; or plates with silver 
filagree borders and a monogram in the center, but these 
are harder to keep clean and do not wear as well. Silver 
deposit bowls, fancy dishes, and tumblers with the 
silver deposit rims, are also designed for use with the all- 
silver service, those in rock crystal and in Bohemian glass 
being especially beautiful. 



Care of Silverware and Cvit Olass 



19 



Even the society habitue runs across new table small 
silver and dishes the use of which he is not certain of, 
and finds it a little safer to watch his hostess before 
using his own supply, for he knows that she knows 
what she purchased and the use for which the article was 
designed. 

The following things are usually eaten from the fingers in 
everyday polite society: 

Radishes, olives, salted nuts, pickles, celery, and aspara- 
gus if no little tongs are provided for it; lettuce when served 
with salt, strawberries when served with the hulls on; 
bread and butter, dry toast, muffins, biscuits, and all small 
cakes; large seeded fruits such as pears, peaches, plums, 
grapes and apricots — the larger fruits are usually pared and 
quartered; the dairy and English cheeses, when not too 
soft and fresh. 

An ear of sweet corn may be held firmly in one hand. 
The legs and wings of birds may be taken in the fingers, but 
it is not looked upon favorably by the over particular ones. 
The sugar tongs are to be used with lump sugar, but if a 
lump of domino sugar is more than one desires it may be 
broken in the fingers. Dry cakes, bonbons, and sandwiches 
cut in fancy shapes complete the list. 

Now for the use of the fork, for the knife plays but a 
small part in the modern table usage, its duties being divided 
by the butter knife and the fruit knife, so that it leaves only 
the meat and game course for its needed presence. 

The fork is needed for all vegetables except for asparagus, 
or peas and corn when served in side dishes when a spoon 
is offered; croquettes, patties, salads, fish and all shell food, 
deviled or scalloped food and chafing-dish dainties, soft 
sandwiches, pastry and cakes with soft fillings, cheeses that 
are soft, and there is an especial fork that is used for ice 
cream. 

This covers the main articles, and if the wary one will 
con over the list carefully he will not make any serious 
blunders. 



20 Care of Silver"ware and C\it Glass 

Nursery Silver. At last the silversmith has realized the 
necessity of placing suitable flat silver on the nursery table. 
The traditional knife, fork, and spoon are now made short 
and rather wide, the fork and knife being five inches in 
length, while the teaspoon is a trifle shorter, with a wide, 
deep bowl. To accompany the set, there is a shallow, small 
silver cup which is easily handled, and a small silver plate, 
dessert-plate size. This little outfit is handy, saves much 
breakage, and is just right for small, chubby hands. 

Cleaning of Silver. A word first about the cleaning 
outfit may be in order. The new silver pan requires only 
the laying of the flatware in it, to be covered with boiling 
water and allowed to remain there until the water cools. 
Then it may be dried and polished. There are a number of 
good liquids and powders on the market for cleaning pur- 
poses, but those recommended by the silversmiths and 
jewelers are perhaps the best. Chamois-covered padded 
silver boards are excellent to clean large pieces on, and the 
various brushes and chamois fork and knife cleaners are 
a necessity, if there is much cleaning to be done. There 
are three sizes in the brushes, and a spoon burnisher will 
also be found very convenient. One of the new conveni- 
ences is the glove chamois polisher; it has a glove pocket 
on the back of the chamois which gives one an excellent 
grip on it while polishing a large piece. 

When all of the large pieces are cleaned and polished 
ready to be put away for the summer, they should be 
lightly smeared over with fresh lard, then wrapped in cam- 
phorated flannel and put into their cotton flannel bags, 
after which they may be stowed away in a closet or silver 
trunk for the season. When they are removed they need 
only be washed in hot soapy water, and polished with a 
chamois, and they are ready for use. Glass and china fill 
the places on the summer sideboard that the silver pieces 
occupy in the winter. Many careful housekeepers also 
put away their solid flatware for the summer, using plated 



Care of Silvei"ware and Cvit Olass 21 

instead, which can go to the porch to be used for outdoor 
meals, where it does not need the careful handling that 
silver would demand. 

Horn, celluloid, wood, and bone salad spoons and forks 
are designed for summer use instead of the silver, and are 
also labor savers. The glass jam and jelly spoons are also 
heavy enough not to break easily in washing, and are good 
to use for outdoor feasts. Japanned wood, glass and wicker 
trays also are varied enough to please all fancies, and are 
very acceptable substitutes for the silver winter trays. 

These few changes will eliminate silver cleaning from the 
summer household duties, and if the same precedent is 
followed with regard to the bric-a-brac and odd decorative 
household features the housekeeper may enjoy a vacation 
at home. 

Care of Cut Glass 

Cut glass, while it is very nice to own and see glittering 
on the china closet shelves, is one of the greatest household 
cares. It is very heavy and must be stored away in a closet 
where the shelves are prepared to carry its weight safely, 
and the grooves in which it is to stand must be deep 
enough to insure its not slipping. It cannot be washed 
like ordinary ware for it scratches, and it gets dull if not 
properly polished. And it should never be rinsed under 
the running water, as the ever-changing temperature 
might shiver it to a thousand pieces without an instant's 
warning. 

To wash it properly use a wooden dish tub, fold a linen 
dish towel in the bottom, half fill the tub with good warm 
water to which add a quarter of a cup of ammonia, and use 
any good white soap, a soft brush, and a lintless cloth. 
Rinse with fresh warm water and dry on a soft towel, and 
polish with a soft chamois or white tissue paper. 

To clean the insides of carafes and long stemmed or 
necked bottles, jugs, or pitchers, let soak with a grated raw 



22 Care of Silver"ware and Cvat Glass 

potato, the inside skin of an egg, or salt and lemon juice. 
Buckshot if used with great care sometimes aids in the 
removal of vinegar or wine stains. 

Every contact with grease should be avoided with cut 
glass pieces, for it makes it cloudy and dull, and almost 
impossible to polish, as one may see if it is used for a butter 
dish. The brushes used in cleaning the crevices should be 
of the softest bristles, as the harsh ones would leave scratches 
that could never be erased. It is really more care to look 
after and keep in order than silverware, for that accepts 
its polishing and more or less rough handling, with never a 
thought of breaking, but the glass, with the natural de- 
pravity of fragile objects, will watch for its chance and just 
break without apparent provocation and without giving 
the owner the slightest warning of its intention of so doing. 



MEASURING TABLES 

60 drops = I teaspoon. 

3 teaspoons = i tablespoon. 

4 tablespoons = }<4 of a cup. 
53^ tablespoons = a i/^ of a cup. 
8 tablespoons = a 3^ of a cup. 
16 tablespoons = i cup. 

I cup = 3^ pint. 

I gill = Yz cup. 

I pint or 2 cups of granulated sugar = i pound. 

4 cups of sifted flour = i pound. 

I pint of water = i pound. 

1 pint of solid fat = i pound. 
10 eggs = I pound. 

4 gills = I pint. 

2 pints = I quart. 

4 quarts = i gallon. 



8 quarts = i peck. 
4 pecks = I bushel. 
3 bushels = I sack. 



23 



FOR THE HOME COOK'S IMPORTANT 
CONSIDERATION 

The absolute cleanliness of the refrigerator. Careful 
covering of milk, butter, and cheese from contaminating 
odors. The use of linen binders for covering fish, wax 
paper to cover meat, linen bags for green foods, and covered 
jars for cooked foods. 

Kitchen scales for weighing foods should be always at 
hand. Measuring cups and spoons are always a conve- 
nience. 

Long-handled forks and skimmers are a necessity in meat 
cookery. 

Kitchen scissors are needed in every kitchen. 

Zinc-covered tables with large wooden roller castors are 
convenient to move where needed at serving time. 

Wire covers are needed to cover dishes standing to cool, 
especially in warm weather. 

When buying a new garbage bucket have the inside 
painted with black enamel paint and it will not retain 
odors or coatings of grease. 



24 



PART II 
Recipes 



25 



CANAPES AND RELISHES 

Since the serving of the canape at dinner has become 
so general one cannot have too many good recipes to turn 
to if doing very much dinner entertaining. The toasted 
foundation upon which the canape usually rests may be 
round, square, diamond- or heart-shaped, but it must be 
daintily toasted and not dried down tough and hard. The 
best bread to use for the purpose is fine-grained bread 
(preferably homemade) two days old. 

The canape is served at table, preceding the soup. 

If an hors-d'oeuvre, or relish, is served in place of the 
canape, it is sent to the drawing-room, with the cocktails, 
before the guests are summoned to the table. 

Owing to present-day popularity of the canapes and 
relishes a number are included here before the question of 
soups is considered. 

If raw oysters or clams, on half shells or in cocktails, 
are served in place of other canapes or relishes, they are 
served at table as formerly. 

CANAPES 

Coquelle Canape 

Boil six eggs hard, chill, shell, and cut them in half 
lengthways. Take out all the yolks and put them in a little 
bowl, add to them a half saltspoon of pepper, saltspoon of 
salt, a teaspoon of Worcestershire sauce and chutney syrup, 
a teaspoon of tarragon vinegar, and enough olive oil to make 

27 



28 Canapes 

a spreading paste. Now add a tablespoon of caviar or a 
little more if liked and spread the mixture on two tiny 
oblongs of toast for a portion, lay on top of each an egg 
white half holding an oyster that has been broiled, then 
dipped in melted butter and dusted with paprika. This 
makes six portions, with two oysters to a portion. 

Clam Canape 

Steam open enough little round clams to allow five to 
each canape. Drain them from their liquor and drop them 
into two ounces melted butter to saute, which has in it the 
juice of half a lemon, half saltspoon of cayenne pepper, and 
a teaspoon of chopped tarragon leaves. Spread the toast 
rounds very thinly with sardine paste, drain the clams and 
lay them on top, dust with paprika, and serve while the 
clams are warm. 

Savory Canape 

Drain one small can of button mushrooms and saut^ 
them in butter; drop in a bud of garlic, juice of half a lemon, 
and a teaspoon of Worcestershire sauce. When done drain 
again, chop them, and add to them three quarters of a cup 
of minced boiled chicken, mix and add enough mayonnaise 
to make a spreading paste, spread on toasted diamond- 
shaped slices, and garnish with sliced truffles. This will 
make ten canapes. 

Sardine and Grapefruit Canape 

Free one grapefruit from all skin and seeds, then allow 
it to marinate in light French dressing twenty minutes. 
Make a smooth sardine paste well seasoned and spread 
toast squares with the mixture. Drain the grapefruit, 
spread a little on top of the canape and dust with paprika. 
This will make eight canapes. 



(Canapes 29 

Pineapple and Fish Canape 

Take one pound of cold boiled codfish, flake it very fine, 
and add to it a cup of grated pineapple. Add a quarter 
saltspoon of pepper, a half teaspoon of salt, enough mayon- 
naise to bind the paste, and spread on toast hearts. Gar- 
nish with olives stuffed with pimentos. This will make ten 
canapes. 

Liver Canape 

Boil and chop very fine a quarter pound of calf's liver; 
add to it a quarter teaspoon of salt, a quarter saltspoon of 
pepper, juice of an onion, a teaspoon of chutney syrup, a 
teaspoon of chopped chives, and enough mayonnaise to 
make a spreading paste. By way of garnish after spread- 
ing on toast rounds use an ear of the tiny pickled French 
corn. This will make six canapes. 

India Canape 

Chop fine enough cold boiled ham to make three quar- 
ters of a cup, add to it a quarter cup of grated cheese, a 
tablespoon of chutney syrup, a little chopped red pepper, 
and a tablespoon of whipped cream. Spread on toast 
rounds and garnish with olive rings. This will make six 
canapes. 

Caviar Canape 

Allow one tablespoon of caviar and a teaspoon of grated 
onion to each canape, add quarter saltspoon of pepper, a 
little mayonnaise. Spread the toast with the mixture and 
to garnish put a hard boiled egg in the ricer and squeeze 
a little over each canape. 

Celery and Roquefort Cheese Canape 

Wash, scrape, and cut celery stalks into two-inch pieces. 
Work one tablespoon of butter until creamy, add two 



30 C^anapes 

tablespoons of mashed Roquefort cheese, and stir until 
thoroughly blended, season highly with salt and paprika, 
mix in one tablespoon of chopped nut meats, and fill the 
inside of the celery stalks with the mixture. Serve on 
toasted fingers of bread and garnish with sliced stuffed 
olives. 

Heart-of-Palm Canape 

The heart-of-palm comes in glass bottles, ready to spread 
upon toast rounds and serve, after garnishing with a little 
chopped red pepper. A pint jar will make twelve canapes. 

Chestnut Canape 

■ Boil, blanch, and mash one quart of chestnuts. Add to 
them a half cup of grated cheese, a half teaspoon of salt, 
a tablespoon of chutney syrup, and enough whipped cream 
to soften the mixture. Spread on toast rounds and dust 
with paprika. This is sufficient for ten canapes. 

Alligator Pear Canape 

Pare, seed, and dice two alligator pears and let them mari- 
nate in French dressing for an hour. Prepare a thick 
slice of toast for each portion, hollow out the center, sprinkle 
with grated cheese, and let stand a couple of minutes in the 
oven to melt the cheese. Drain the pear and heap in the 
center of each slice of toast. Garnish with olives, stuffed 
with almonds. This will make six canapes. 

Mussel Canape 

Steam open enough mussels to allow five to each portion. 
Remove them from the shell, drain and cool, and allow them 
to marinate in French dressing to which a quarter bud of 
garlic and one anchovy have been added. Allow them to 
stand one hour, then drain; dip in a little finely chopped 
tarragon and ^ay on toast rounds, putting a little mustard 
mayonnaise on top of each. 



Canapes 31 

German Canape 

■ Cut thin slices of rye bread, remove the crusts, and cut 
into neat oblongs. Prepare one cupful of minced bologna 
sausage, one finely chopped dill pickle, one tablespoon of 
minced canned red peppers, and sufficient clarified butter 
to form a paste. Mix the ingredients well together, spread 
on the rye bread that has been lightly toasted, and cover 
the top thickly with chopped hard-boiled egg yolk. 

Anchovy Canape 

Take two teaspoons of anchovy paste and add a grated 
onion, a pepper chopped with six olives, a teaspoon of 
fried bread crumbs, and a teaspoon of cream cheese. Mix 
the ingredients thoroughly and add a few drops of French 
dressing until the paste is the proper consistency for 
spreading. Spread toast rounds thinly with the mixture 
and lay two olives, stuffed with anchovies, on top. 

Caviar Canape 

Make sufficient oblong toast rounds to serve one to each 
cover. Chop a little onion very fine, add to it a small por- 
tion of highly seasoned French dressing, spread the rounds 
thinly with the mixture and then a layer of caviar. Put 
cold boiled eggs into a ricer and sprinkle a little over the 
top of each canape, latticing the top with thin strips of red 
pepper by way of a garnish. 

Shrimp Canape 

Take one pint of boiled shrimp and break them into small 
pieces with a silver fork; add to them three quarters of a 
cup of bread crumbs that have been fried in butter and 
carefully drained, a quarter saltspoon of pepper, a half 
teaspoon of salt, two tablespoons of finely minced celery, a 
tablespoon of chutney syrup, a tablespoon of melted butter, 
a tablespoon of Worcestershire sauce, and two beaten eggs. 



3- Canapes 

Fill well-buttered ramekins with the mixture, dust the top 
of each lightly with a few fine crumbs, and add a tablespoon 
of sweet cream to each. Bake twenty-five minutes and 
then set away to cool, but do not chill them. This is 
sufficient for six canapes. 

Grape Canape 

To make the grape canape, wash a bunch each of Malaga 
and red California grapes, halve and seed them, and add to 
them a teaspoon of fresh chopped red pepper, two table- 
spoons of grated fresh pineapple, a tablespoon of chutney 
syrup, and enough heavy mayonnaise made without mustard 
to bind the mixture together. Heap on thin toast rounds 
and garnish with a pimento olive. This is sufficient for 
six canapes. 

Russian Canape 

This recipe makes two canapes. Mix a half cup of Rus- 
sian caviar with a tablespoon of grated onion, a half salt- 
spoon of paprika, a teaspoon of finely chopped red pepper, 
a teaspoon of chopped chives. Spread the mixture on 
toast rounds, and lay on top of each two small sardines that 
have marinated in olive oil and lemon juice for twenty 
minutes. 

Sardine Canape 

Cut a slice of bread for toast rather thick, trim three 
inches square, and hollow out the center. When toasted 
spread with anchovy paste, arranging sardines with truffles 
in the center, garnish with olives stuffed with the anchovy 
paste and vinegared cherries. This recipe makes one 
canap^. 

Cucumber Canape 

Slice two cucumbers thin, let them marinate twenty 
minutes in French dressing to which the juice of an onion 



Canapes 33 

has been added, drain and add two tablespoons of 
chutney syrup. Spread on toast rounds, garnish with oHve 
rings and one tiny anchovy in the center of each. This 
makes six canapds. 

Cold Tomato Canape 

Place a thin slice of raw tomato on a round of bread, 
browned in oven, and spread with mayonnaise. In the 
center of the tomato place a small mound of finely chopped 
cabbage and celery moistened with French dressing. 
Sprinkle the top with chopped parsley. 

Asparagus Canape 

Take one cup of cold boiled green asparagus tips, cut 
them in small pieces, add to them one tablespoon of chut- 
ney syrup, and one tablespoon of bread crumbs that have 
been fried in butter and drained; put a little of the mixture 
on each toast round, putting a generous teaspoon of mayon- 
naise on top, in the center of which place a radish rose by 
way of garnish. This will make six canapes. 

Chicken Liver Canape 

Boil six chicken livers with a thinly sliced onion, a 
sliced stalk of celery, three cloves, and half a bud of garlic 
until they are tender; remove, drain, and chop. Strain the 
water they were cooked in ; add a lump of butter, a quarter 
saltspoon of pepper, half teaspoon of salt, two tablespoons 
of tomato ketchup, and three drops of tabasco; let it come 
to a boil and thicken with brown flour and butter rubbed 
to a cream. Chop one hard boiled egg and turn it with the 
liver into the gravy; spread the toast squares with the 
mixture, garnishing with a pimento olive. This makes 
eight canapes. 



34 RelisKes 

Finnan Haddie Canape 

Soak finnan haddie in lukewarm water to cover, then set 
on the back of the range and let stand until the fish separates 
easily into flakes. Measure the fish and to each cupful 
allow the following ingredients: Fry half a tablespoon 
of finely chopped onion and three chopped mushrooms in 
three tablespoons of butter for five minutes. Add two 
tablespoons of flour and when this is blended in pour on 
slowly while stirring constantly two thirds of a cupful of 
milk. As soon as the boiling point is reached, add two 
tablespoons of grated cheese, the yolks of two eggs 
slightly beaten, and the finnan haddie. Season to taste 
with salt and cayenne. Cool and pile on toasted rounds of 
whole wheat bread. Sprinkle with browned bread crumbs 
and bake in a hot oven for eight minutes. Serve hot, 
garnished with bunches of crisp cress. 

Lobster Canape 

Take two cups of cold boiled lobster cut fine, one cup of 
asparagus tips, two tablespoons of bread crumbs that 
have been fried in butter and drained. A teaspoon of 
chopped tarragon leaves, one grated onion, melt one quarter 
pound of butter, add one tablespoon of ketchup, one table- 
spoon of mustard sauce, pepper and salt to taste, and six 
chopped olives. Add all ingredients, heat well, and serve 
on toast rounds, garnished with sliced olives and peppers. 

RELISHES 
Alligator Pear Relish 

Dice one alligator pear, mix one tablespoon of chutney 
syrup with the juice of a lemon, six drops of tabasco sauce, 
a teaspoon of ketchup, the same amount of Worcestershire 
sauce, and a quarter saltspoon of salt. Mix all together 
and serve in small glasses with a pimento olive on top of 



RelisKes 35 

each. This is sufficient for two people and may be in- 
creased for more by following the same proportions. 

Russian Relish 

A tempting appetizer served before a dinner is made by 
taking a half cup of Russian caviar, a tablespoon of finely 
chopped onions, and a dash of paprika ; serve on toast squares 
with sardines dressed with olive oil and lemon juice. This 
is quite Russian and unique enough to interest the experi- 
menter. 

Pickle Hors d'OEuvres 

Take enough dill pickles to allow one to a portion; peel 
thinly and scoop out in boat-shaped receptacles, slicing off 
a little section to make them set firmly. Fill the boats with 
a mixture of Duxbury clams, chopped with a little fresh 
shredded cabbage, chopped watercress, and a few chopped 
tarragon leaves mixed with French dressing, to which a 
little chili sauce has been added. Rest the boats on toast 
fingers. 

Pineapple Fingers 

Shred one small pineapple with a silver fork; add to it 
four tablespoons of French dressing, and allow it to marinate 
for twenty minutes. Then drain and chill. When ready 
to serve add a half cup of grated cheese and fold in a small 
cup of mayonnaise. Spread narrow toast strips with the 
mixture and pile, log-cabin fashion, on a silver plate, placing 
a small anchovy on top of each. 

Brown Bread Fingers 

Make a paste of three tablespoons of deep sea caviar, one 
grated onion, one hard-boiled egg put through the ricer, and 
enough mayonnaise to bind the mixture. Spread brown 
bread toast fingers with the mixture, laying one raw oyster. 



36 RelisKes 

that has been marinated in French dressing for fifteen 
minutes, on top of each finger. 

Among relishes that come ready prepared in bottles and 
cans there are the Madagascar relish, a mixture of heart-of- 
palm and mayonnaise; artichokes in vinegar; p^te-de-foie- 
gras; otero, a sour spiced mixture of fruit and pickle; 
tunny fish in tomato sauce; herring roe in oil; herring 
filets, pickled; mortadelle-de-bologne, and a ntmiber of 
others, all of which may be spread upon crackers or toast 
fingers, and eaten from the fingers when passed with the 
cocktails. 

One thing to be borne in mind when preparing relishes is 
to spread the various mixtures and pastes thinly, and not 
to allow them to be moist enough to drip. 



SOUPS 

In choosing utensils for soup-making those of the simplest 
kind will be found most satisfactory. An ordinary granite 
ware kettle with a tight-fitting cover answers every purpose 
and will not be affected by the various acids from the meats 
and vegetables. If one wishes to go into more expense the 
kettles having the outside copper bottoms are better owing 
to the double protection which removes the possibility of 
burning the contents and also induces slow boiling which is 
desirable for soup. An ordinary colander is needed for 
the first straining, and a puree sieve for finer straining, a 
large granite spoon for stirring, a long-handled fork for 
removing meat, a long-handled skimmer, a half dozen 
cheesecloth bags (these are better than flannel for they do 
not retain odors), and a granite pint cup with handle to 
add water and so on if needed. 

Soups are divided into several classes, but with the 
modern tendency towards simpler living the recognized 
dinner soup is now the thin soup, clear or with fancy gar- 
nishes, and may take the form of bouillon, consomme, or 
any of the clear broths. The cream soups are used at 
luncheon or for a supper where they may form the only 
warm and nourishing dish. Milk soups and chowders 
make an agreeable change once in awhile but are not as 
popular as in former years. Cold and jellied soups are for 
summer use only, and are to most people things one must 
cultivate a taste for, but if liked they open a way to use 
up extra fresh fruit juice. 

Lean, juicy beef, mutton, and veal form the foundation of 
nearly all good soups, therefore it is advisable to buy the 

37 



38 Sovips 

best of such pieces as the market affords. The principal 
care in making soup should be to apportion the ingredients 
right so that the flavor of one does not predominate too 
much over another. Generally a quart of water is allowed 
for one pound of meat. Bones ought always to form part of 
the ingredients of the soup pot, as the marrow is a great 
addition to the nutriment contained. If the soup meat is 
boiled simply to make stock it should be cut fine, but if it 
is to be used for the table when it is quite done, then remove 
the bone and tie the meat with kitchen tape and remove 
when done and make a rich sauce for it. This way it does 
double service. Soup should boil from two to six hours, 
according to the quantity and quality of its contents. 

Opinions differ as to the advisability of washing meat, 
but if considered best wash it as little as possible, or, better 
still, wipe it with a fresh piece of cheesecloth that has been 
wrung out of cold water. 

When the rare value of the stock pot is learned and 
appreciated in families where soups, gravies, or sauces are 
used daily there will be not only one but two such pots 
found in actual commission, one containing the red stock 
and one the white. 

SOUP STOCKS 
Red Stock 

For the making of the red stock, which is perhaps the ' 
most generally used, beef is the basic meat. Fresh shin 
meat is the best, though a piece of juicy round may be 
added, tied in shape with kitchen tape, and removed from 
the pot when it is done sufficiently to be used in hash or 
croquettes. The finer the bones are cracked the more 
valuable they are. They are composed of an earthy sub- 
stance to which they owe their solidity, gelatine, and fatty 
fluid or marrow, so it is necessary to crack the bones in 
order to get the richness they contain. 



Soxips 39 

A fowl is an excellent addition to the stock pot in the 
way of giving it flavoring and richness. A pint of cold 
water is allowed for each pound of meat and bone ; it is then 
put over the fire, where it is allowed to simmer gently, being 
carefully skimmed as the scum rises. After it has boiled 
clear and no more scum appears, add a quart can of toma- 
toes, soup vegetables carefully washed and diced, leeks, 
celery, and a half bud of garlic, two cloves, six raisins, and a 
bay leaf. Add these slowly so that the stock does not stop 
boiling entirely, add a tablespoon of salt and a half tea- 
spoon of pepper, cover tightly to prevent evaporation, and 
cook steadily four or five hours. One vegetable soup may 
be served from this first ; then the remaining stock is allowed 
to cool. The grease is carefully removed from the top 
before the second use of the stock in any form it is needed; 
that which still remains should be carefully strained and 
set away for further use. 

White Stock 

Cut up four pounds of knuckle of veal, one chicken, one 
slice of ham, three carrots, two onions, celery, parsley, and a 
bunch of sweet herbs, a half teaspoon of pepper, a level 
tablespoon of salt, and lump of butter, and four quarts of 
water. Simmer gently for five hours, strain carefully, and 
when cold remove every particle of grease and put away in 
a cold place to use as it is needed. 

If one is economically inclined the chicken may be re- 
moved before it falls from the bones and minced for cro- 
quettes or creamed and the bones thrown back into the 
soup. This stock will be almost if not quite rich enough 
to jelly when cold. Any liquor in which a turkey or fowl 
has been boiled added to the stock makes it much richer and 
stronger. 

If the stock for any reason, should not be perfectly clear it 
may be clarified by heating it and adding the whites of two 
stiffly beaten eggs in a half pint of water. Skim often and 



40 So\jps 

when the eggs begin to separate take the stock from the fire. 
Strain carefully through a fine piece of cheesecloth, after 
which it should be absolutely clear. 

Fish Stock 

This stock will not keep well, so can only be made a little 
while before it is used. Cut two pounds of fresh codfish 
into small pieces, slice two onions, two carrots, rind of half a 
lemon, add a bunch of sweet herbs, cover with two quarts 
of cold water. Let the stock boil gently for a half hour, 
then season with two saltspoons of salt and one of white 
pepper. Boil five minutes longer, strain, and when cold 
skim off the oily grease, using a little white blotting paper 
to get the last small globules. The stock is then ready to 
form the basis of any fish, oyster, clam, scallop, shrimp. 
lobster, or any other sort of fish soup, chowder, or pur6e. 

Vegetable Stock 

Vegetable stock to be of the best quality and flavor 
should be made of fresh vegetables. This does not mean 
that one should go out and buy all new materials, but it 
means using a definite system of saving by-products with 
this purpose in view. For instance, save all outside or 
broken lettuce leaves, all outer stalks and fresh tops of 
table celery, left over sprays of parsley and tarragon sprays 
that may have served for garnish, and after washing them 
put into a linen lettuce bag and put them in the refrigerator 
until needed. Parings of tomatoes should be set aside in a 
covered bowl, with left-over vegetables that have not been 
creamed or strongly flavored, and water in which potatoes, 
onions, or other vegetables have been boiled may also be 
kept for the stock, providing it is to be made in a day or 
two. When ready to make the stock add a can of tomatoes 
to the vegetable water, then cut up the vegetables, and 
when all have been added put in enough cold water to fill 
the pot three quarters full, cover tightly, and boil slowly 



Soxjps 41 

for two hours. When done strain the soup carefully, add 
salt and pepper, and when cold set away to use as required. 
This stock will keep two days in summer and four or five 
in winter. 

Soup Conserve 

Soup conserve is a very handy commodity for winter use; 
it can be made at any time by using canned tomatoes, though 
August and September is the best time to make it, when 
fresh tomatoes are plentiful and cheap. To make the con- 
serve take one gallon of tomatoes that have been washed 
and stemmed; one half gallon of very tender, green okra 
pods, well washed; and one pint of white onions, pared. 
Chop all together fine, then season with a half cup of salt, 
a level tablespoon of white pepper, two tablespoons of 
chutney syrup, two of Worcestershire sauce, and a table- 
spoon of very finely chopped tarragon leaves. Boil gently, 
stirring often until the mixture forms a rather stiff paste. 
Remove from the fire and turn into jars, and when cold, 
cover with melted paraffine. Set the jars away in a cool 
dry place. A teacup of this conserve added to a beef soup 
makes an excellent seasoning; or in an emergency two cups 
of the conserve may be adulterated with one quart of 
boiling water and be made into a quick dinner soup for 
four or six people. 

MEAT SOUPS 
Imperial Soup 

The following recipe is an unusual one, inasmuch as it 
calls for the combination of the two principal stocks, red 
and white: 

Take one pint of clear red stock, season to taste, and add 
five well beaten eggs to it; then pour the mixture into a 
well buttered pudding mold, place the mold in boiling 
water, cover so that no water boils into it, and let the 



42 Soups 

water boil around it steadily for one hour. Remove, cool 
slightly, and turn on to a plate ; have ready a quart of white 
stock melted and seasoned, then slice down the jellied red 
stock, placing a cube or slice in each plate of the clear 
soup. 

Bouillon 

Bouillon is a clear soup which is, as a rule, served in cups 
for luncheons and suppers, teas and other social functions. 
It is not considered a dinner soup. 

Take four pounds of lean beef cut in pieces and put them 
in the soup kettle with three quarts of cold water. Add a 
level tablespoon of sugar, one bay leaf, one tablespoon of 
chopped carrot, a saltspoon of cayenne, two level teaspoons 
of salt, a tablespoon of onion juice, two cloves, one blade 
of mace, and a saltspoon of grated nutmeg. Allow the 
liquid to come to boiling point slowly and then simmer for 
three hours, covered closely. At the end of three hours 
add to the bouillon a half teaspoon of celery seed, or two 
saltspoons of celery salt, or a stalk of finely chopped celer\-, 
with the whites of two eggs slightly beaten with the washed 
and crushed shells. Stir the bouillon well, bring it once 
more to boiling point and boil for five minutes, then strain 
through a fine sieve, then through a double thickness of 
cheesecloth that has been wrung out of cold water, and set 
aside to cool. When cold remove every particle of fat 
that floats to the surface, and add a few drops of kitchen 
bouquet. At this juncture it is wise to taste the bouillon 
and if it needs more salt or pepper add them to taste. The 
bouillon is now ready for use. If it is to be served hot, 
heat just the quantity needed and serve with a toasted 
crouton. Many cooks add a teaspoon of sherry to each 
cup with a tablespoon of whipped cream heaped on top. 
If the bouillon is served cold it must be well chilled, or it 
may even be jellied. Bouillon is always seasonable; and 
this recipe will yield about three and a half quarts. 



Soxips 43 

Consomme 

Consomm6 is a light, clear dinner soup, and is often used 
as the basis for other soups. 

Take four pounds of shin-of-beef and a knuckle of veal, 
remove the meat from the shin, and have both bones well 
cracked; put all into the soup pot with six quarts of cold 
water. Add one large onion sliced, one carrot diced, one 
stalk of celery chopped, and simmer all gently but steadily 
for four hours. At the end of that time remove the meat 
from the soup, leaving all the rest of the ingredients. Add 
a quarter cup of salt, a level teaspoon of white pepper, and 
a half teaspoon of kitchen bouquet. Continue boiling 
for half an hour, then strain through a very fine sieve and 
then through a double thickness of cheesecloth wrung out 
of cold water. Set aside and when cold skim every particle 
of grease from the surface. The consomme is then ready to 
use; it may be served clear, or with any of the so-called 
soup garnishes, the recipes for the making of which will be 
found at the end of this chapter. 

Oxtail Soup 

Take two oxtails, separate them, wash and put them 
into the soup pot. Dice a small slice of ham and add it 
with three sliced onions, one leek, one stalk of chopped 
celery, a bunch of sweet herbs, parsley, a bay leaf, four cloves, 
one teaspoon of pepper, a tablespoon of salt, two table- 
spoons of ketchup, and three quarts of water. Skim the 
soup carefully as it boils, and let it boil evenly for about 
four hours. When done, strain and thicken slightly with a 
little butter and flour mixed to a cream. Return to the 
soup a little of the meat, which may readily be taken from 
the bones in small pieces. 

Solferino Soup 

To two quarts of well seasoned clear bouillon add the 
dumplings made in this way: Beat four eggs in a stew- 



44 Soups 

pan, add a half pint of cream, two ounces of fresh butter, 
pepper and salt to taste, and enough flour to form the 
mixture into the consistency of dough. Mold it into 
round or egg-shaped balls the size of large walnuts and fry 
them a delicate brown in butter; lay them in the bottom of 
the tureen and pour the hot bouillon over them. 

Baked Soup 

Cut one pound of bottom round in squares and put them 
in the soup pot with two sliced onions, two diced carrots, 
one ounce of rice, one pint of yellow split peas, a tablespoon 
of salt, a teaspoon of pepper, one stalk of finely minced 
celery, and four quarts of clear cold water. Cover the pot 
and place it in the oven. Allow the soup to bake for four 
hours. When removed from the oven it will be a thick 
soup which may require a little more seasoning. Serve 
with it toasted croutons. 

Potage Printanier 

Potage printanier is a popular spring soup, and it is 
made of half a pint of fresh green peas, a small bunch of 
chervil, a small bunch of fresh parsley, two heads of fresh 
lettuce shredded, two thinly sliced onions, two ounces of 
butter, the yolks of three eggs, and one pint of water, sea- 
soned to taste, and two quarts of rich beef stock. Put the 
chervil, onions, lettuce, parsley, and butter into the pint of 
water and let them simmer until tender. When done 
strain off the vegetables, leaving enough water on them 
to keep them soft and pouring the rest into the stock. 
Beat the eggs in a little pan of the water, and add it with 
the vegetables to the soup just before serving, and season 
to taste. This quantity is sufficient for eight persons. 

Soup a la Cantatrice 

Put two quarts of white stock into the soup pot and when 
it comes to boiling point add three ounces of sago that has 



Soups 45 

been washed in boiling water, add it gradually, and let the 
stock simmer for half an hour when the sago should be 
thoroughly dissolved. Beat the yolks of three eggs and 
add them to a half pint of boiling cream; add this mixture 
to the soup and remove from the fire, as the soup must not 
boil after the eggs have been added or they will curdle it. 
Put in a teaspoon of sugar, pepper, and salt to taste, and 
serve at once. This soup will take about forty minutes to 
make. It is seasonable all year; and this quantity will 
serve eight people. 

Mutton Soup 

Take five pounds of neck-of-mutton and put it in the 
soup pot with three quarts of cold water. Add three 
carrots and three turnips, diced; two onions, sliced; a small 
bunch of sweet herbs, a bunch of parsley, cut fine; a table- 
spoon of salt, and a half teaspoon of pepper. Let it come 
to boiling point, then let it simmer until the meat is tender. 
When the meat is done remove it to a dish and place where 
it will keep hot. Strain the vegetables and put them over 
the meat. Remove the grease from the soup, season a 
little bit more, and thicken slightly with a little butter and 
flour rubbed to a cream. Just before serving, a wineglass 
of sherry may be added to the soup if desired. This is 
sufficient for eight people. Send the meat and vegetables 
to table on a hot platter, garnished with toast sippets. 

Mock Turtle Soup 

Select a good, fresh calf's head, have the butcher split it 
and unhinge the jaws, remove the tongue and brains. Wash 
and scald the head thoroughly, and place it in the soup 
pot with three quarts of cold water. Add one thinly 
sliced carrot, one onion cut in half and stuck with eight 
cloves, a small bunch of sweet herbs, a stalk of chopped 
celery, and a teaspoon of tarragon leaves. Add the tongue 
and allow all to come to boiling point, then simmer gently 



46 Soups 

until the tongue is done. When tender remove the tongue, 
skin and trim it, and throw the skin and trimmings back 
into the soup; dice the tongue and set aside until needed. 
Continue boiling until the cheeks and meat about the 
head is tender; when tender remove the head and take off 
all the meat, throwing the skin and bones back into the 
soup; the meat from the head may be set aside for cro- 
quettes; or to be served with any kind of well liked sauce. 
Now add to the soup a tablespoon of chutney syrup, a 
tablespoon of Worcestershire sauce, a saltspoon of red 
pepper, a level tablespoon of salt, and continue cooking 
slowly for twenty minutes. Then strain carefully through 
a fine sieve, and then through two thicknesses of cheese- 
cloth wrung out of cold water. Set to cool and when cold 
remove ev6ry particle of grease, using white blotting paper 
to get the smallest particles. When ready to use reheat, 
add the diced tongue, a thinly sliced lemon with the seeds 
removed, and a wineglass of sherry when it comes to boiling 
point. Serve at once. The brains may be blanched, par- 
boiled, and used for fritters. 

Pot-au-Feu 

Select one and a half pounds of bottom round, roll and 
tie, and put into the soup pot with three and a half quarts 
of clear, cold water. Add three ounces of cracked shin- 
bone, a tablespoon of salt, and let come to a boil. As soon 
as the scimi rises add a quarter of a pint of cold water and 
remove the scimi with a skimmer. Repeat this process 
three times; after the third time the soup should be clear. 
Wipe the edge of the kettle with a clean cloth, and add to the 
soup two small carrots, diced ; two good sized onions, thinly 
sliced; eight leeks cut in small pieces, a half cup of chopped 
celery, one clove, one white turnip, diced, and one small 
parsnip, diced. Let the soup boil up, then set aside to 
simmer for three hours. Remove the meat and add more 
seasoning if the soup needs it. Skim off all grease and 



Sovips 47 

serve. If desired a little of the meat may be cut into small 
pieces and added to the soup, though the meat is generally- 
served with a specially made gravy. This will be sufficient 
soup for six people. 

Mexican Soup 

Take four pounds of bottom round and put in the soup 
pot with four quarts of cold water. Add two large onions, 
sliced; two carrots and six potatoes, diced; one small cab- 
bage coarsely chopped; three white turnips, diced; one 
quart of string beans, broken ; and one quart of young peas 
in the pods, carefully washed. Also add corn cut from six 
ears, or, a large can of corn. Boil the soup until the meat 
is thoroughly done, about four hours. When done remove 
the meat, and strain the soup, putting the vegetables over 
the meat. Return the soup to the kettle and add to it six 
chili peppers that have been sauted in butter, two slices of 
pickled pork, diced and fried a delicate brown, and thicken 
With two tablespoons of browned flour mixed with two 
tablespoons of melted butter. Place the meat, sliced, 
and vegetables in the bottom of the tureen, pouring the 
soup over them. Serve very hot. This is sufficient for 
eight people. 

Petite Marmite Soup 

Petite marmite is one of the most expensive soups on the 
bill of fare, usually costing sixty cents a plate. It may be 
purchased at one dollar a pint jar, ready for use, but it is 
much nicer to make it at home after this authentic and 
reliable recipe: Put in an earthen pot called "marmite" 
two pounds of short ribs of beef cut into two-inch-square 
pieces, six small pieces of oxtail, one two-pound fowl cut in 
pieces, and one gallon of red stock. When it has boiled 
ten minutes skim thoroughly and add half a bud of garlic, 
half a pound of carrots, a quarter pound of turnips and a 
quarter pound of leeks, all diced, one onion stuck with 



48 Sovips 

cloves, and a heart of celery thinly sliced. Boil for three 
hours, then serve with toasted sliced rolls. This quantity 
will serve ten covers, or two dinners for a small family. 

Hodge-Podge 

Put two pounds of shin-of-beef in the soup kettle with 
three quarts of water, and one pint of ale; simmer for fifteen 
minutes, then skim carefully. Add two sliced onions, two 
diced carrots, two diced white turnips, a finely chopped 
stalk of celery, a tablespoon of salt, and a saltspoon of 
pepper. Stew gently until the meat is quite tender. Re- 
move the meat, cutting a small quantit}^ of it in small 
pieces and returning it to the soup (the rest of the meat 
may be used for croquettes). Make a thickening of butter 
and flour, and thicken the soup slightly. Serve hot. This 
quantity will serve twelve people, and the soup is season- 
able the year round. 

Scotch Mutton Broth 

Select a thick neck of mutton, wash, and cut into small 
pieces; put into the soup kettle with two quarts of cold 
water. Boil ten minutes, skim thoroughly, and add one 
sliced onion, a diced turnip and carrot, a cup of chopped 
celery, one bay leaf, a saltspoon of pepper, and a level tea- 
spoon of salt. Cover closely and cook slowly for two hours. 
Plain soup dumplings are good in this broth. 

FISH SOUPS 

Fish soups are used more by English people than Ameri- 
cans, but they make an excellent variety, especially in hot 
weather when the meat soups become too heavy and heating. 

Eel Soup 

Wash and cut into thin slices three pounds of eels, put 
them into a stewpan with two ounces of butter; let them 



Sovips 49 

simmer for ten minutes, then pour over them two quarts of 
water; add a bunch of sweet herbs, one onion, a blade of 
mace, a saltspoon of pepper, and a level teaspoon of salt; 
simmer until the eels are tender ; be careful not to break the 
fish; take them out carefully and mix two tablespoons 
of flour with a quarter of a pint of cream ; bring all to a boil 
and turn over the eels; float toasted croutons on the top 
of the soup in the tureen. This is sufficient for six persons. 

Skate Soup 

Clean and filet one skate, cut the filets two inches square. 
Boil the head and trimmings of the fish with two sliced 
onions, parsley, salt and pepper, and two quarts of water; 
cook until reduced one half, then strain. Brown two ounces 
of butter, adding a little flour to thicken the soup; put in 
the filets, and after boiling fifteen minutes add a dessert- 
spoon of ketchup, and one wineglass of sherry. Season to 
taste and serve with toast squares. This will serve six 
people. 

Deep Sea Scallop Soup 

Take one quart of deep sea scallops, wash them carefully, 
dry them, and cut them in small pieces. Put two quarts of 
rich milk on the fire in a soup pot, add the cut scallops, and 
let stew until the scallops are tender. Add the juice of one 
large onion, a saltspoon of celery salt, a half saltspoon of 
pepper, a level teaspoon of salt, and thicken to the thick- 
ness of cold honey, with butter and flour rubbed to a paste. 
Just before serving, add a pint of hot sweet cream. Serve 
with it tiny toast fingers. This will serve six persons. 

Small Scallop Soup 

Take one pint of fresh scallops; turn them into a pint of 
hot milk and stew for fifteen minutes. Drain and add a 
pint of hot cream to the milk with the juice of an onion, 

4 



50 Soxips 

a quarter saltspoon of pepper, a level teaspoon of salt, and 
four drops of tabasco; thicken slightly with butter and 
flour rubbed to a cream; return the scallops to the soup; 
add a tablespoon of finely chopped parsley and serve with 
toasted croutons. This will serve six persons. 

Crab Meat Soup 

To one quart of fish stock add three quarters of a pound of 
fresh crab meat, a half cup of dry bread crumbs that have 
been fried in butter and well drained, a saltspoon of pepper, 
a level teaspoon of salt, and a dessertspoon of chutney 
syrup. Dissolve a tablespoon of cornstarch in half a cup 
of milk; add it to the soup. When the soup boils up add a 
cup of sweet cream and serve at once. This will serve six 
people. 

Oyster Soup 

Scald twenty-five oysters in their own liquor; when the 
beards curl remove the oysters. Add to the liquor a cup of 
clear water. Make a thickening of one tablespoon of 
butter and flour, dilute it with a little of the oyster liquor, 
and add it to a large cupful of boiling cream. Mix this 
smoothly with the remaining oyster liquor, add the oysters, 
a half saltspoon of pepper, the same quantity of salt, and 
let all heat, but the soup must not boil. Wipe the inside 
of the tureen with a bud of garlic, turn in the soup, and 
serve. This will be sufficient for six people. 

Plain Oyster Soup 

Drain the liquor from one quart of oysters and add to it 
an equal amount of milk, a tablespoon of butter, a salt- 
spoon of salt, and half the quantity of pepper. When this 
mixture boils up add the oysters, which have been care- 
fully wiped dry. Let the soup cook three minutes, when it 
is read}'- to serve. It is wise to make this soup in a double 
boiler, for milk burns quickly. This is sufficient for six people. 



Soxjips 51 

Clam Soup 

Select twenty-five round clams, wash carefully, and pour 
over them, in a saucepan, one pint of water; steam them 
open and let them steam ten minutes. Remove the clams 
from the shells, chop them, and drain all the liquor back into 
the saucepan. Strain the liquor through a piece of cheese- 
cloth wrung out of cold water to remove all sediment. 
Heat in a double boiler one quart of milk, add the hot 
clam juice to it, and thicken very slightly with a half table- 
spoon of butter and a half tablespoon of flour rubbed to a 
cream. Add the clams; and season the soup with a salt- 
spoon of salt and a half saltspoon of pepper. Serve at 
once. This is sufficient for six people and may be prepared 
in half an hour. 

Bouillabaisse 

Have fileted six pounds of fish, two of cod, two of had- 
dock, and two of halibut ; put them in the soup kettle with 
three and a half pints of water, two cloves, three thinly 
sliced onions, a tablespoon of chopped parsley, a half a 
bud of garlic, three chopped shalots, two diced carrots, one 
bunch of sweet herbs, a teaspoon of salt, a saltspoon of 
pepper, a saltspoon of allspice, and a bay leaf. Cover the 
pot closely and boil for twenty-five minutes. Carefully 
remove the fish with a skimmer, drain, and remove any 
pieces of vegetable that adhere to it. Then lay the fish 
in a dish covered with a napkin. Add to the soup a tea- 
spoon of powdered saffron and strain the soup into the 
tureen. Serve the fish at the same time as the soup, with 
sippets of fried bread. This soup will take one hour to 
prepare and is sufficient for six persons. 

Lobster Soup 

Wash one good-sized lobster, then plunge it into three quarts 

of boiling water and let it boil for twenty-five minutes. 



52 Sovips 

Remove, cool, and pick out the meat. Throw the empty 
shells back into the water, first cracking the small claws. 
Dice the meat of the tail and large claws, and set the meat 
aside. The small pieces of meat from the body put back 
into the stock with a thinly sliced onion, a cup of chopped 
celery, and a bunch of sweet herbs. Boil until the liquid 
is reduced one half. Then strain very carefully, through 
sieve and cheesecloth, season to taste with pepper, salt, and 
a tablespoon of Worcestershire sauce. Mix to a cream a 
tablespoon each of butter and flour, and thicken with it one 
pint of boiling cream. Add this slowly to the hot lobster 
stock and when thoroughly mixed add also the diced 
lobster. Pour over a round of toasted bread in the center 
of each soup plate allowing a small portion of lobster to 
each plate. This is sufficient for six people and will take an 
hour or more to make. 

Clam Bouillon, or Broth 

Wash thoroughly fifty round clams and steam them in a 
pint and a half of clear, cold water. When done remove 
the clams from the shells, draining all liquor back into the 
saucepan. Strain the liquor carefully when it is ready for 
use, with the addition of such seasoning as is liked. The 
clams may be used in patties, fritters, be scalloped or 
creamed. 

Salmon Soup 

Take one pound of freshly boiled salmon, remove all 
skin and bone, and flake ; or use one can of salmon, carefully 
drained, boned, skinned, and flaked. Take one quart of 
the water the salmon was boiled in, a quart of clear water if 
canned salmon is used, and add to it the skin and bones of 
the salmon, one sliced onion, a chopped stalk of celery, one 
clove, one slice of lemon, one tablespoon of chutney syrup, 
and a small bunch of sweet herbs. Boil all gently for 
twenty minutes, then strain. Have ready one pint of 



Sovips 53 

boiling cream, thicken it with a tablespoon of flour and a 
tablespoon of butter rubbed to a cream, and slowly add the 
salmon stock to it. When hot add the salmon, and pepper 
and salt to taste. Serve at once with toasted croutons. 
This is sufficient for six people and takes about an hour to 
prepare. It is seasonable all year. 

Shrimp Bisque 

Shell and break in pieces one quart of freshly boiled 
shrimp. Take one quart of fish stock, heat, and when 
hot add to it a pint of hot cream, the shrimp, and seasoning 
to taste. Let all come to boiling point and serve. The 
stock may be prepared in the morning, after the recipe 
previously given, and the soup may be prepared in half 
an hour; it is sufficient for six people. 

Green Turtle Soup 

This soup is rather expensive and is a great deal of 
trouble to make. For a private family a ten- or fifteen- 
pound turtle will be large enough. The day before making 
the soup cut its head off with a sharp knife and hang it 
up by the tail to bleed. In the morning separate the upper 
from the lower shell with a sharp knife, being very careful 
not to cut the gall bladder. Cut the meat from the breast 
in thick slices, then remove gall and the entrails. Detach 
the fins and remove the green fat and set it aside with the 
breast meat. Put the shells into the soup pot with three 
quarts of cold water, and simmer gently until the bones 
may be easily removed. Strain the water off the shells and 
place it in another pot with the head, liver, heart, and all 
the other flesh, a half pound of lean ham, a bunch of sweet 
herbs, a bay leaf, one onion stuck with cloves, a tablespoon 
of chopped tarragon leaves and the same amount of parsley. 
Cook all gently until the meat is done, then strain the 
mixture; dice the meat and return it to the soup. In a 
separate saucepan saute in four ounces of butter a chopped 



54 Soups 

onion, add to it a pint of madeira wine, and let it come to 
boiling point. Add this to the soup and thicken slightly 
with smoothly mixed browned flour. At serving time add 
two hard-boiled eggs chopped fine, juice of two lemons, 
and another cup of the wine. When all is hot serve. 

Lobster Bisque 

One can of lobster, two cups of milk, three pints of 
boiling water, one tablespoon of butter, one half cup 
fine cracker crumbs, salt and pepper. Chop the lobster 
rather coarsely, taking care not to tear it. Put boiling 
water, salt, pepper, and lobster into a saucepan and cook 
gently forty minutes. Have ready scalded milk in which 
the crumbs have soaked twenty minutes. Stir in butter, then 
milk and cnrnibs ; set in hot water for five minutes and serve. 

Lobster Puree 

Boil two fresh lobsters and when cold remove from 
their shells. Use all the pickings of the body, legs, and 
the two big blunt claws, chopping or mashing the meat 
fine and placing it in a quart of cold water with a bunch 
of 'chopped fine herbs, a stalk of chopped celery, a diced 
carrot and one potato, a grated onion, one tomato, and a 
half bud of garlic; let this boil gently for one hour, add pepper 
and salt to taste. Strain when done, add one pint of hot 
milk and a half pint of cream, thicken with butter and 
flour rubbed to a cream, and add the finely minced tails 
and big claws, then a tablespoon of ketchup and a dash 
more pepper and salt if needed. Serve with crisp finger 
rolls. - - 

CHOWDERS 

Martha Washington Chowder 

Cut several slices of pickled pork very thin and try them 
out dry in the chowder pot. Then put on top of the pork a 



Sovips 55 

layer of sliced codfish, then a layer of thinly sliced onions 
and thickly sliced potatoes, then another layer of the 
fish, then a layer of onions and potatoes, putting plenty of 
pepper and salt between each layer. Next split some hard 
crackers, dip them in water, and put them around the sides 
of the pot and over the top of the chowder. Then turn in 
cold water enough just to cover the chowder and set on the 
fire. Stew evenly for half an hour until the potatoes are 
done and then add a gill of melted butter and a cup of sweet 
cream and it is ready to serve. This should be sufficient 
for six people. 

Snapper Chowder 

Place a layer of thinly sliced pickled pork on the bottom 
of the chowder kettle and lay on it three slices of red snapper 
cut half an inch thick, then a layer of potatoes sliced half 
an inch thick, one thinly sliced onion, dusting of pepper 
and salt, and little lumps of butter; then another layer of 
fish, then potatoes, onion, and seasoning with plenty of 
butter. Put in one pint of sweet milk, one pint of water, 
and a half teaspoon of hot Southern sauce. After the 
chowder has boiled gently for twenty minutes add six 
hardtack crackers or pilot biscuit, and just before it is done 
add a cup of cream in which an egg has been beaten; let it 
boil up once and serve. This should serve eight people. 

Maryland Chowder 

Take one pound of salt pork, cut into strips, and soak it in 
hot water for five minutes. Put a layer of this pork in the 
bottom of the chowder pot. Then cut four pounds of 
codfish or sea bass into pieces two inches square and put a 
layer of these over the pork ; next a layer of chopped onions 
seasoned with summer savory, and a dusting of pepper and 
salt. On top of the onions put a layer of split crackers that 
have been buttered ; then another layer of the pork, and so 
on until the materials are used up. Pour in barely enough 



56 Sovips 

water to reach to the top of the fish, cover and stew gently 
for one hour, being careful the water does not sink below 
the upper layer. If it does, replenish carefully with a little 
boiling water. When the chowder is thoroughly done take 
it out with a perforated skimmer and put it into a tureen, 
add a little cream to the gravy, and thicken it with a little 
butter and flour rubbed to a cream. Boil it up and pour 
over the chowder. Serve sliced lemon, pickle, or stewed 
tomatoes with the chowder. 

New England Clam Chowder 

Place in the bottom of the chowder kettle slices of pickled 
pork and allow the kettle to get hot enough to melt and 
start the pork to cooking. Then cover the pork with a 
layer of soft clams. Next put in a layer of thinly sliced 
potatoes, then a layer of thinly sliced onions sprinkled with 
pepper; then cover with hardtack that has been buttered. 
Next put in another layer of clams, then potatoes, onions, 
pepper, and buttered hardtack, and so on until the materials 
are used. Butter extra hardtack enough to lay around 
the edge and then turn over it the clam juice and enough 
sweet milk barely to cover the chowder. Cover and cook 
gently for one hour, seeing that it does not boil below the 
top. If it does add a little hot milk. When ready to serve 
turn a cup of hot cream over it. 

Fish Chowder for Eight 

Boil, mash, and pass through a colander six potatoes. 
Slice and fry brown six onions, soak quite soft two ship 
biscuits, dice and fry four slices of salt pork. Cut two or 
three pounds of cod, sea bass, or blackfish (whichever are at 
their best) into inch-thick pieces and proceed as follows: — 
Put four tablespoons of butter in the pot with two of 
salt, then put in the ingredients in layers, freeing the fish 
from the bones, and season with a teaspoon of black 
pepper, half a teaspoon of grated nutmeg, half a tea- 



Soxjps 57 

spoon of cloves, and a bouquet of thyme. Then pour in 
fish stock enough to cover all about four inches. Place on 
the fire and then add the biscuit and pork, also three table- 
spoons of chopped parsley. Cook slowly one hour. Add the 
juice of a lemon, and five lumps of sugar. When ready to 
serve it, add a tumbler of good sherry. 

Lobster Chowder 

Lay in the bottom of the chowder saucepan on the rack 
three medium slices of pickled pork, then a one-inch slice 
of fresh cod, then a layer of sliced potato and a grated onion, 
a dusting of pepper and salt, and little limips of butter, a 
layer of pilot crackers, then one of cold boiled lobster cut 
into small pieces, another of pilot crackers, then a layer of 
the cod, and proceed in this way, making the lobster the last 
layer, with plenty of butter and a dusting of pepper and 
salt over the top. Pour over a pint of milk, adding just 
enough water to cover all, and boil for forty minutes, slowly 
but steadily. Just before serving add a half pint of hot 
cream. Have ready a tablespoon of chopped parsley and 
a finely chopped red pepper; sprinkle a teaspoon over 
each portion as it is served. 

Fish and Oyster Pie, an English Chowder 

Take two pounds of cold boiled codfish. Free it from 
skin and bones and put a layer in the bottom of a well 
buttered baking dish. Then put in a layer of oysters on 
top of the fish with pepper, salt, and a layer of bread crumbs, 
and proceed in this way until the dish is full. Dust the 
top with a grating of nutmeg and one teaspoon of finely 
chopped parsley. Lattice the top with strips of pie crust, 
making one a little heavier which is put around the edge of 
the dish to act as a seal. Before putting on the top pour 
in a little melted butter, the oyster juice, and a cup of 
cream or thin white sauce. Bake from a half to three 
quarters of an hour. 



58 So\ips 

Beefsteak Chowder 

Cut a slice of salt pork into small bits, with one onion 
minced fine; cook until a nice brown; add one quart of 
boiling water, let simmer five minutes, then add one pound 
round steak cut into strips one half inch thick and two 
inches long; bring this quickly to a boil, then simmer until 
the meat is tender; add four or five pared and sliced pota- 
toes, season with salt and pepper, add more boiling water, 
and when potatoes are tender add one and one half cupfuls 
of good rich milk or cream; split six or eight crackers, put 
into a soup dish, and pour the chowder over them, serving 
at once. 

Com Chowder 

Dice two slices of fresh pickled pork, heat until they 
begin to fry in the bottom of the chowder kettle, then add 
one large sliced onion, six sliced potatoes, and the corn cut 
from twelve ears; also add a level tablespoon of salt and a 
level teaspoon of pepper, and cover the mixture with clear 
cold water. Boil for thirty minutes, then add six pilot 
crackers that have been buttered on each side, boil all 
fifteen minutes more, add a tablespoon of sugar and one 
cup of hot cream. This will be sufficient for six people. 

Potato Chowder 

Dice six good-sized potatoes. Dice a quarter pound of 
pickled pork, and slice one onion thin. Put the onion and 
pork into a frying pan and fry a delicate brown. Put into the 
chowder kettle a layer of potatoes, then a layer of onions 
and pork, sprinkle with a little salt, pepper, and chopped 
parsley; repeating in layers until the potatoes are used up. 
Pour over the grease the pork and onion were fried in, and 
add one pint of water. Cover and simmer for twenty 
minutes. Mix one tablespoon of butter and one of flour to 
a cream. Heat one pint of milk, or light cream, hot; 



Sovips 59 

thicken it with the butter and flour, then stir it into the 
chowder, being careful not to break the potato dice. Serve 
very hot. This is sufficient for six people. 

POULTRY AND GAME SOUPS 

Chicken Bouillon 

Select a short, thick, tender fowl; cut it in pieces after 
washing, drawing, and singeing, and put in the soup pot 
with two quarts of cold water, a half cup of chopped celery 
tops, a blade of mace, a teaspoon of sugar, a saltspoon of 
pepper, and a teaspoon of salt. Cover the kettle; bring to 
boiling point and skim carefully. Simmer gently for two 
hours and a half. At the end of that time remove the 
chicken from the soup, strip the meat from the bones, 
throwing bones and skin back into the soup. The white 
meat may be set away for salad; the dark meat may be 
creamed. Let the soup simmer for half an hour longer, 
then add to it the beaten whites and shell of two eggs; 
bring once more to boiling point, then strain. When cold 
remove every particle of grease, and heat as needed. This 
recipe should make a little more than two quarts of bouillon. 
It may be more highly seasoned, if desired, as it is used. 

Soup a la Reine 

Select one four-and-a-half-pound fowl, have it cleaned 
and jointed, and put it on to cook in two quarts of white 
stock. After cooking for one hour take out the chicken and 
remove the bones, then pound the meat with one ounce of 
sweet almonds in a mortar very fine. When well beaten 
put back into the stock with the crumb of two French rolls. 
Let simmer one hour, then rub through a fine sieve and add 
a half pint of hot cream, a teaspoon of sugar, a teaspoon of 
salt, and a saltspoon of pepper. Serve hot. If the soup 
is to be warmed over do it In a double boiler, for then the 
delicacy of the soup is not lost. This is sufficient for eight 
persons. 



6o Sovips 

Duck Giblet Soup 

Take three sets of duck or goose giblets, scald and cut in 
small pieces, put in a stewpan with an oxtail, a two-pound 
soup bone from shin of beef, one shank of mutton, gener- 
ous bunch of soup greens, and allow them all to simmer 
in three quarts of water until the giblets are tender. When 
finished take them out and lay them in the bottom of the 
tureen, strain the soup, season, and thicken slightly with 
butter and flour mixed to a cream, and pour over the giblets, 
adding a cup of port wine and two tablespoons of mush- 
room ketchup. 

Chicken Giblet Soup 

Scald three sets of chicken giblets and cut the gizzards 
into small pieces; put them in a soup pot with an oxtail, 
small shin of beef, and a finely cut up soup bunch, with an 
extra onion added. Add three quarts of water, boil until 
the giblets are tender, then take them out, lay them in the 
tureen, strain the soup, and thicken it with a little butter 
and flour; add a wineglass of port wine and pour over the 
giblets and serve. 

MuUagatawny Soup 

Slice six onions thin and brown them in butter, lay four 
slices of bacon in the stewpan, and lay a jointed fowl on 
them to brown quickly. When brown add the onions, two 
quarts of stock, a teaspoon of salt, and a saltspoon of pepper, 
and let cook until the meat is tender. When the meat is 
done rub together one ounce of sweet almonds that have 
been pounded, and a tablespoon of curry powder with a 
little of the stock ; add this to the soup with a tablespoon of 
chutney syrup and serve with a spoon of boiled rice in each 
dish. The chicken when done is usually stripped from the 
bones, cut fine, and put back into the soup, but it may be 
removed entirelv if desired. 



Soxips 6i 

Pheasant Soup 

Joint two pheasants, dice two slices of ham, flour them, 
and braise them in butter until they are a nice brown. 
Then put them into a stewpan with three quarts of stock, 
two sliced onions, a half bunch chopped celery, a teaspoon 
of salt, and a saltspoon of pepper, and simmer for two 
hours. Strain the soup and pour it over the crumb of two 
French rolls and the diced breast meat. Add two hard- 
boiled eggs sliced and serve. 

Chili-Con-Carne (Mexican Heavy Soup) 

Cut in squares a half pound of lean beef, a quarter pound 
of veal, and a quarter pound of pork. Strip the meat from 
the bones of a two-and-a-half-pound chicken. (The chicken 
bones may be added to the stock pot.) Put the meats 
together in a stewpan with two chopped onions, four 
chopped pimentos, one quart of canned red kidney beans 
that have been passed through a sieve. Heat in a pan one 
ounce of butter, two tablespoons of olive oil, and a gill 
of tomato sauce, and when melted together turn over the 
mixture. Put all into a buttered baking dish, dust the top 
with white pepper, cover, and cook one hour. When done 
turn over an ounce of melted butter and serve at once. 
At Mexican dinners there are two soups usually served, a 
thick one and a thin one; the latter is generally made of 
cereal or fruit delicately flavored, while the heavy soup is 
hearty and very highly seasoned. 

Broth Royale 

Wash and cut fine one three-stalk bunch of celery and 
put it in the soup kettle with a sliced onion, two bay leaves, 
two cloves, five quarts of chicken broth, and six pair of 
chicken feet skinned and cracked. Season with a tablespoon 
of salt and a teaspoon of pepper, and let cook gently for two 
hours. Strain the broth through a napkin, into another 



62 Soxaps 

saucepan, let it come to a boil, and sprinkle in two ounces 
of tapioca, stirring while adding it, and let boil ten minutes; 
it will then be ready to serve. 

Belgian Pigeon Soup 

Clean, cut up, and fry three pigeons, remove the breast 
meat and cut into squares, throwing the rest into two 
quarts of white stock with the bones, one ounce of chopped 
ham, and one small minced onion. Thicken slightly with 
butter and flour creamed together, strain, add the diced 
meat, and one cup of boiled peas and a glass of white wine. 
Serve with toasted croutons. 

Turkey Soup 

Take the remains of a roast turkey, bones and all, and put 
them into two quarts of white stock. Let them cook, 
adding a stalk of celery and an onion, until the bones are 
clean, then strain and set aside. Remove all grease as it 
arises; when clear, return it to the soup kettle, and, when 
hot, season with a tablespoon of Worcestershire sauce, a 
tablespoon of mushroom ketchup, a saltspoon of pepper, and 
a tablespoon of salt, and thicken with two ounces of rice 
fiour or arrowroot that has been mixed smooth with a little 
of the soup. 

Rabbit Soup 

Take one good sized rabbit, skin and clean it, wash, and 
cut into pieces. Fry one sliced onion in two tablespoons of 
butter; when a golden brown add the rabbit, each piece 
dipped in flour. Cover closely for five minutes, then add 
one pint of boiling water and one quart of hot red stock 
that is well seasoned. Cover again and allow all to simmer 
gently for one hour, seasoning to taste. Remove the rabbit 
pieces, strip the meat from the bones, and cut into dice. 
Return the dice to the soup with two hard-boiled eggs 



Sovips 63 

diced, four cloves, one thinly sliced lemon, and a wine 
glass of madeira wine. Serve at once. This is sufficient 
for eight people. 

VEGETABLE SOUPS 

Soups made of vegetables, while more trouble to prepare 
than meat soups, require less time in the cooking. The 
fresher the vegetables and the better their quality, the 
more perfect will be the soups made from them. All 
vegetables should be carefully washed and looked over to 
see that no dirt or insects are lodged in the leaves; also to 
make sure that no fertilizer or spraying mixture remains. 
In seasoning vegetable soups, though the quantities of salt 
and pepper are usually given, it is always safer to taste 
the soup, as vegetables at different stages of maturity give 
off different degrees of salts and acids. 

Vegetable Soup 

To three pints of red stock add one pint bottle of mace- 
doine vegetables, after draining, one grated onion, one cup 
of finely chopped celery ; season the soup to taste after it has 
boiled forty minutes. Serve hot with the vegetables in it. 
This will serve six people. If one has time a fresh soup 
bunch, containing all the vegetables, may be washed and 
diced into the stock in place of the macedoine vegetables. 
In this case the soup will have to cook gently but evenly 
for a full hour. 

Pea Soup 

Take one cup of yellow split peas, wash carefully, and 
put on to cook in a three-quart pitkin with two quarts and a 
pint of water. Slice thinly one large onion and add with 
two slices of diced pickled pork. Cover and cook slowly 
for four hours, stirring occasionally. Add a teaspoon of 
salt and a saltspoon of pepper. If the soup boils too thick 
a little more water may be added. Taste before serving 



64 Soxjps 

for more seasoning may be needed. Just before sending 
to table a gill of hot cream may be added, though it is not 
necessa^3^ 

Green peas may be used in the same way, though gener- 
ally if they are used the soup is thinned to the consistency 
of heavy cream by the addition of a cup of hot milk. 

Fresh Asparagus Soup 

Wash and boil one bunch of green asparagus until very 
tender. Drain but save a pint of the water. Rub through 
a puree sieve, add the water and one cup of hot, rich milk, 
a lump of butter, a quarter saltspoon of pepper, a half tea- 
spoon of salt, and thicken slightly with butter and flour 
mixed to a paste. Just before serving add a cup of hot 
cream and pour over toast sippets in the bottom of the 
tureen. Chop enough tarragon leaves to make a table- 
spoon, and sprinkle over the top of the soup. 

Canned Asparagus Soup 

Take one can of asparagus tips, cut the tips one inch 
long, and stew fifteen minutes in clear water. Take the 
ends and add with a soup bunch consisting of parsley, one 
onion, one carrot, and a stalk of celery, to one pint of white 
stock. Boil until flavor is extracted from the vegetables, 
strain and add to one quart of heated milk, thicken with 
two tablespoons of flour and one tablespoon of butter, 
which have been molded together, add seasoning, the tips 
drained out of the water, and serve with toasted bread 
squares. 

Artichoke (Jerusalem) Soup 

Put three slices of lean bacon into a stewpan with four 
ounces of butter, half a bunch of celery, one onion, one 
turnip, all cut fine, and braise them a quarter of an hour, 
keeping them v^ell stirred. Wash and pare four pounds of 



Soups 65 

artichokes, add them to one pint of white stock. When 
these have stewed down to a pulp, add two quarts of white 
stock, a teaspoon of sugar, a quarter saltspoon of pepper, 
and a half teaspoon of salt, simmer five minutes, and strain. 
Pour back into the pan and simmer five minutes more. 
Add a half pint of boiling cream, and serve with sippets 
of bread fried in butter. 

Cucumber Soup 

Pare, quarter, and remove the seeds from two cucumbers, 
cut in thick slices, and cover with boiling water to draw 
out the poison. Let them stand ten minutes, then have 
ready two quarts of white stock, add the cuctunbers, and 
boil slowly until very tender, adding a bunch of sweet 
herbs. Strain and season and add a gill of cream, in 
which two eggs have been well beaten. Serve at once with 
toast sippets. 

Fresh Com Soup 

Split the grains of one dozen ears of corn, then scrape them 
down with the back of a knife. Throw the cobs into the 
saucepan with enough water to cover them and let them 
boil ten minutes; then strain the water, saving one quart. 
Add to it slowly one quart of cream, then the corn ; let it 
come to the boiling point, then boil slowly fifteen minutes, 
add a quarter saltspoon of pepper, a half teaspoon of salt, 
a tablespoon of sugar, and thicken to the consistency of 
cold honey with a little butter and flour rubbed to a paste. 
Serve at once. 

Creole Gumbo 

Creole gumbo is made by adding to three tablespoons of 
melted butter one pepper, two onions, half a cup of raw 
ham, and half a cup of raw veal. Chop all very fine and, 
stirring well, cook for six minutes; then add two quarts of 



66 Soxjps 

hot stock and salt and pepper to taste, cooking it for thirty 
minutes. Skim well and add one tablespoon of rice, cover, 
and boil twenty minutes; then add twelve well trimmed 
and sliced okras, two sliced tomatoes, and one and a half 
teaspoons of Worcestershire sauce. Boil for thirty minutes, 
skim, and serve in hot tureen. 

Chantilly Soup 

Boil until tender one quart (or two cans) of green peas. 
Add to the peas a sliced onion and a bunch of parsley. 
Have ready two quarts of white stock at boiling point, put 
the peas through a puree sieve, and add with the seasoning 
to the soup. Do not let the soup boil after adding the 
peas or it will injure the color. 

Fresh Pea Soup 

Shell two quarts of fresh peas and put them in a stew- 
pan, cover with water, and boil until they are very tender ; 
then drain them, saving a cup of the water they were 
boiled in, and rub them through a puree sieve. Take a 
tablespoon of butter, a saltspoon of pepper, salt to taste, 
and a teaspoon of sugar, moisten with a little of the water, 
and mix to a smooth paste ; then add slowly, stirring all the 
time, one pint of hot cream. If the soup seems too thick, 
heat the rest of the cup of water and add it. Have ready 
little croutons that have been toasted in the oven to serve 
with the soup. 

Parsnip Soup 

For parsnip soup, pare and slice six parsnips of medium 
size. Melt in a stewpan three ounces of butter, add the 
parsnips, pepper and salt to taste, and stew until they are 
tender. If they absorb the butter too rapidly add a half 
cup of beef stock. When they are tender add a pint of 



Soxips 67 

stock and boil together for half an hour. Pass through a 
sieve, add a pint more stock, boil and season, thicken 
slightly, and add a tablespoon of tomato ketchup, pepper, 
salt, a tablespoon of sugar, and a tablespoon of chutney- 
sauce. Let cook three minutes, then strain. When cold, 
remove all particles of grease and serve with a teaspoon 
of finely chopped cold boiled carrot in each cup. 

Scottish Soup 

For eight persons, use a good sized leek, trim and wash it 
and cut it into Julienne pieces one inch long; saute in butter 
until it is a delicate brown, then add three pints of water, salt 
and pepper to taste, one quart of potatoes, washed, pared, 
and diced, and a third of a cup of pearl barley. Let all 
cook slowly together for two hours. Just before serving, 
thicken slightly with two ounces of melted butter and flour 
rubbed to a cream. Serve very hot with toast squares. 

Lentil Soup 

Boil a half pound of lentils in three pints of water, add 
two cups of potatoes cut into small dice, the juice of one 
onion, salt and pepper to taste; when the potatoes are done, 
thicken with browned flour stirred in cold water enough to 
make a thin batter. 

Sorrel Soup 

Take a handful of sorrel, saute it ten minutes in a spoonful 
of fresh butter, add a quart of water, a half teaspoon of 
salt, a saltspoon of pepper, and simmer half an hour over a 
slow fire. Stir in white of an egg, cook two minutes, 
stirring constantly. Rub in a cup the 3^olk of an egg with 
a small piece of butter, add a cup of cream, and stir all 
together. Cover the bottom of the tureen with toast 
squares. When ready to serve pour in the soup and sprinkle 
a little finely chopped chervil over the top. 



68 Sovips 

Okra Soup 

For the soup take one can of tomatoes or one pound of 
fresh tomatoes and one pound of okra, which must be care- 
fully washed and cut into slices. Take also one sliced onion, 
one bud of garlic, two tablespoons of chopped parsley, and one 
quart and a half of chicken broth and one slice of pickled 
pork diced. Cover the soup pot closely and boil until the 
okra is thoroughly done. Season and add one cup of hot 
cream just before serving. Serve all the vegetables in the 
soup. 

Onion Soup 

Cut up four large onions and brown them in six ounces 
of butter for two minutes; add a half teaspoon of salt, 
quarter saltspoon of cayenne, and a quart of stock; cook 
slowly one hour, then add a large cup of hot milk with two 
beaten eggs and stir in quickly. Lay in the bottom of 
the tureen toasted bread squares sifted with Parmesan 
cheese and turn the soup over them. 

Potato Soup 

Cut six large white potatoes into small cubes and throw 
them into cold water. Wash carefully a complete soup 
bunch of all the needed greens; cut it fine, and add one can 
of mushrooms, or a half pound of fresh ones carefully 
pared and washed. Put all into the soup pot and boil 
one hour; then add slowly a pint of good, drawn butter 
and serve with toast squares or tiny rolls. 

Potato Soup 

Boil six potatoes and mash them smoothly and gradually 
add them to two quarts of boiling white stock; season well 
and pass through a sieve; heat and serve with toast squares. 



SoMpS 69 

Mushroom Soup 

Take a cupful of dried mushrooms, thoroughly wash and 
soak them for a couple of hours, then put them in a double 
boiler with a pint of cold milk and let them simmer until 
they are puffed up; then add a pint of hot milk, a gill of 
cream, a saltspoon of pepper, a half teaspoon salt, a table- 
spoon of Worcestershire sauce, and a tablespoon of chutney 
syrup; thicken all by adding a little butter and flour mixed 
to a paste, but do not make the soup too thick. 

Mushroom Soup 

Take one can of button mushrooms, drain, cut in half, 
saute in butter, pepper and salt to taste, for five minutes, 
then add gradually a pint of white stock, the juice of an 
onion, a quarter bud of garlic, a tablespoon of mushroom 
ketchup, a tablespoon of Worcestershire sauce, and add 
gradually another pint of stock. Thicken slightly with a 
little browned flour and butter creamed together, let boil 
up until the right consistency, remove from the fire, and 
add a cup of hot cream. 

Fresh Tomato Soup 

Take one dozen fresh smooth tomatoes and chop them 
fine, chopping with them a stalk of celery, two onions, two 
peppers, and a bunch of fresh sweet herbs. Add a half 
slice of lean ham and cover with a quart of cold water. 
Boil evenly for an hour, then add a little cornstarch to 
thicken the soup slightly. 

Vegetable Marrow Soup 

Pare and slice four medium marrows, cover them with 
two quarts of white stock; let them boil until they are very 
tender, then strain and press them through a puree sieve, 
add quarter of a saltspoon of pepper, half teaspoon of salt, a 
teaspoon of sugar, a grating of nutmeg, and the juice of an 



70 Sovips 

onion. Just at serving add a half pint of hot cream. 
Toast sippets that have been fried in butter and carefully 
drained are nice with this soup. 

Spinach Soup 

Take two quarts of white stock, season and thicken very 
slightly, and add, just before serving, one cup of hot cream. 
Have ready three quarts of spinach that has been carefully 
washed, boiled, chopped fine, well drained, seasoned with 
a saltspoon of pepper and a half teaspoon of salt, and 
a teaspoon of melted butter, and molded into balls the size 
of English walnuts. Arrange the balls in a tureen or allow 
two to a portion, and turn the hot soup over them. 

Pomeranian Soup 

Wash and boil until very tender one quart of white beans. 
Remove half of the beans and set aside; put the rest with 
the soup through a puree sieve. Heat the soup again, 
adding the juice of an onion, a half cup of chopped celery, 
and the seasoning, put in the remainder of the beans, and 
boil fifteen minutes. If the soup seems a bit thick, add a 
little hot cream and serve. Little toast squares are nice 
with this soup. 

Russian Bortsch 

Select two pecks of tender beets, wash and cut them in 
quarters, and place them in a wooden half barrel, or tub, 
with sufficient tepid water to cover them. Stir them and 
remove the accumulated scum from time to time, allowing 
them to stand from ten to fifteen days to ferment and 
become sour. They should then be drained and the liquid 
boiled until it is perfectly clear, skimming carefully. It is 
then bottled and is ready for use as a soup stock, or the 
Russians use it also for a beverage. When ready to make 
the soup take two quarts of the bortsch and add to it a 



Soups ^l 

pound of diced beef, a small slice of diced ham, and a diced 
pork tenderloin; wash and dice a soup bunch and add. 
Allow it to cook until all the ingredients are done; season 
to taste and serve with the ingredients left in it. 

CREAM SOUPS AND PUREES 

Cream soups and purees are more especially suitable for 
luncheon and nursery use, and are often included in the 
various invalid and meatless diets. They require the greatest 
care in preparation, for they burn easily, thicken and grow 
pasty if allowed to stand and cool after they are ready, and 
are not attractive to reheat and use again. Therefore it is 
wise to make only the quantity that is needed for one 
serving. Only the sweetest of milk and cream, best butter, 
freshest eggs, and perfectly matured vegetables carefully 
washed and prepared, and fruit in perfection should be 
considered in their making. Cornstarch, arrowroot, rice, 
banana, or one of the new vegetable flowers will be found 
the most delicate thickenings for these soups. There 
should also be a double boiler and fresh granite saucepan 
devoted to these soups, so they are not cooked in vessels 
that retain strong flavors and exude greases of other foods 
that have been cooked in them. 

Cream of Afsparagus Soup 

For cream soup, wash, trim, and scrape the stalks of one 
bunch of asparagus, cut the "heads" one inch long and boil 
separately till done, then drain and set aside. Cut the 
rest into inch pieces, cover with one pint and a half of 
boiling water, and cook until very tender, adding a quarter 
of a saltspoon of salt and the juice of one small onion. 
Strain and mash through a sieve, add a pint of hot milk 
and half a pint of cream, thicken with butter and flour 
rubbed to a paste, add the asparagus heads, season to taste, 
and serve with toasted croutons. 



72 Sovips 

Aguacate Cream Soup 

To a rich cream soup that has been flavored with sweet 
herbs, add one aguacate pared and seeded and cut into very 
small pieces, just as the soup boils up for the last time before 
serving. Select ripe aguacates (alligator pears) for soup 
use as they will have a better flavor. 

Com Puree 

Split the grains of one dozen ears of corn and scrape 
them down, add a tablespoon of sugar, salt and pepper to 
taste, small lump of butter, a cup of milk, and a cup of 
cream; boil in double boiler for fifteen minutes, then rub 
through a puree sieve, and if too thick thin slightly with a 
little hot cream. Canned corn may also be used if fresh is 
out of season; one can will be equal to six ears of corn. 

Cucumber Puree 

Take one large, ripe cucumber, pare, and remove the 
seeds. Cut it into slices; wash and cut two heads of lettuce 
and place with the cucumber, in one quart of water. Add 
one onion whole and one stalk of celery, one clove, and two 
slices of lemon by way of flavoring. Boil until the cucumber 
is very tender, then remove the onion and celery and rub 
the rest through a puree sieve. Add a pint of hot cream, 
thicken slightly with a little butter and flour rubbed smooth. 

Puree of Lima Beans 

Soak one pound of dried lima beans over night. In the 
morning slip them from their skins and add to them three 
pints of water with a small sliced onion, two stalks each of 
parsley and celery, with a saltspoon of bicarbonate of soda. 
Cook all until very tender and until the water has boiled 
down about one half, then put through a puree sieve. 
Have the following cream sauce ready to mix with the 
bean puree: Three tablespoons of butter and two table- 



Sovips 73 

spoons of flour creamed together well, add one pint of cream, 
a quarter saltspoon of paprika, and the same of pepper. 
Mix carefully with the puree, wipe the inside of the double 
boiler with a bud of garlic, turn the pur6e into it, and stir 
constantly until all is smooth and hot. Serve with toasted 
croutons. 

Cream of Celery Soup 

Boil a trimmed and washed head of celery in one pint of 
water for thirty minutes. Boil a blade of mace and a 
large slice of onion in a pint of milk ; mix one tablespoon of 
flour with two tablespoons of milk; add this to the boiling 
milk, and cook for ten minutes. Mash the celery in the 
water in which it has been cooked, mix it into the boiling 
milk, and add one tablespoon of butter, seasoning with 
pepper and salt to taste. Stir well for one minute, then 
strain. The flavor may be improved by adding one cup of 
whipped cream, when the soup is put into the tureen. 
This is sufficient for four people. 

Cream of Cabbage Soup 

For the cream of cabbage soup, use one small white cab- 
bage and strip from it the outer leaves. Cut it in half, 
remove the hard heart, and then chop it coarsely; put it 
into a large saucepan, cover it with a pint of boiling water, 
and add a teaspoon of salt, a saltspoon of cayenne pepper, 
two lumps of sugar, and a quart of hot milk. Let it stew 
gently, covered, until the cabbage is very tender, and then 
strain through a fine sieve. Add to the liquid a teaspoon 
of onion juice and thicken with butter and flour rubbed 
to a smooth cream. Boil the soup until it is the con- 
sistency of honey ; if it is inclined to be limipy , strain it into 
the tureen. Dot the surface with tiny toast squares and 
serve hot. The cabbage that has been strained from the 
soup may be put away, and the next day may be escalloped 
with crumbs and cheese for a luncheon dish. 



74 Soxjps 

Pineapple Puree 

Pare and chop fine one fresh ripe pineapple, add a few 
stalks of celery, pepper, salt, and a pint of water. Let 
simmer until the fruit is done, then put it through a puree 
sieve. Add to it a pint of hot cream, a teaspoon of sugar 
and paprika, mix and see that it is hot — but do not boil 
after adding the cream. If the puree seems a bit thin 
add a little butter and flour rubbed to a cream and allow 
it to come to the boiling point. 

Peach Puree 

Select two dozen large ripe peaches, pare, halve, and stone 
them, then put them in a saucepan with a pint of water; 
boil them until they are very tender, then put all through a 
puree sieve. Put the pulp back into the saucepan and 
add a cup of sugar, a little grated nutmeg, and a pint of hot 
sweet cream. Blend all together and serve the puree hot 
with toast fingers. 

Dandelion Puree 

Take two quarts of fresh dandelion leaves and wash 
them thoroughly, then chop fine and boil them in one 
quart of water. When done (in twenty minutes) add the 
juice of an onion, a teaspoon of salt, the same of sugar, and 
a saltspoon of pepper, one pint rich milk or cream, and 
thicken with flour and butter rubbed to a cream. Rub 
all through a puree sieve and put in a double boiler to 
reheat, adding a finely diced hard-boiled egg. 

Pimento Bisque 

Wash and chop six red peppers, removing the seed cones 
of three, add three chopped onions and a stalk of chopped 
celery and put all in a quart of cold water. When it begins 
to boil add a half cup of well washed rice and boil twenty 
minutes. Put through a puree sieve and add to the mixture 



Soups 75 

one pint of rich milk or cream heated to boiling point and 
thicken with rice flour rubbed smooth in cold milk (about 
two level tablespoons, but it may not all be needed) ; stir in a 
little at a time until the mixture has the consistency of' 
molasses. 

Potage Cressonniere 

Take two good-sized white onions, pare and slice thin, 
and fry in butter until a delicate brown, adding a tablespoon 
of flour and cooking three minutes longer ; add one quart of 
boiling water and boil slowly. Pare and dice one quart of 
potatoes, add them to the potage with a half bunch of well 
washed watercress chopped fine. When ready to serve, 
after it has cooked for half an hour, add a pint of hot milk 
and four ounces of table butter creamed with two heaping 
tablespoons of lentil flour. This will thicken the potage 
sufficiently. Serve very hot. This will serve eight people. 

Spinach Puree 

Wash carefully two quarts of spinach and cook until 
tender in a small quantity of water. Rub through a sieve 
and add three cups of rich stock and season to taste. Stir 
to a paste one tablespoon of butter and the same quantity 
of flour and one cup of hot milk. Add this to the soup and 
let all boil up together, stirring to keep it smooth. Serve 
with croutons. 

Parsnip Puree 

Pare and boil six good-sized parsnips until soft enough 
to mash, drain, and put them through a puree sieve; add 
one cup of milk in which a tablespoon of cornstarch has 
been dissolved, two tablespoons of melted butter, pepper, 
salt, and a teaspoon of sugar; mix smooth, add a half pint of 
cream, and let boil up once, stirring carefully; then add a 
half pint of hot cream. It is then ready to serve. Use 



76 Soiaps 

toast squares that have been fried in butter and drained, 
and rub the inside of the tureen with a Httle piece of garHc. 

Tomato Bisque 

Take one can of tomatoes, one onion, and a soup bunch, 
boil all together for an hour, strain, and set away to cool. 
When needed, heat to boiling point; also heat a pint and 
a half of milk and have ready butter and flour mixed to a 
paste for thickening. Put a half teaspoon of bicarbonate 
of soda into the tomato and as it foams up add the milk 
and rub in the thickening. Season to taste and serve in a 
tureen. 

Cream of Tomato Soup 

To one can of tomatoes add a well washed and diced 
soup bunch, a pint of cold water, and cook thirty minutes; 
strain and set aside. Just before serving heat a pint and a 
half of sweet milk, add to it a teaspoon of salt and a salt- 
spoon of pepper, and thicken it with butter and flour rubbed 
to a cream, adding lastly a saltspoon (heaping) of bi- 
carbonate of soda. This 'prepares the milk to receive the 
tomato, which should be hot and added slowly, stirring 
steadily while it is added. The cream should be made 
thick enough to allow for the thinning by the addition of the 
tomato. This is sufficient for six persons. 

Puree of Asparagus 

Take one bunch of green asparagus, wash and trim, boil 
until very tender in a quart of water, adding salt, pepper, 
the juice of an onion, and a stalk of celery cut fine; when 
very tender remove from the water and mash through a 
puree sieve; add to the pulp one cup of cream, one cup of 
milk, one cup of the water in which it was boiled, pepper, 
salt to taste, and thicken with butter and flour rubbed to a 
cream. Serve hot with toast croutons. 



Soxaps 77 

Cream of Lettuce Soup 

Wash thoroughly two large, solid heads of Boston lettuce, 
then shred it and cover it with a pint of cold water. Let 
boil a half hour, add the juice of an onion and a pint of hot 
milk, a half teaspoon of salt and a saltspoon of pepper. 
Thicken with a heaping tablespoon of butter and a table- 
spoon of flour rubbed to a cream. Work all through a 
puree sieve; reheat in the double boiler and serve. This 
is sufficient for six people. 

Cream of Salsify Soup 

Scrape two bunches of salsify and cut in pieces. Slice 
one onion thin and cook it with the salsify in one quart of 
water. When cooked very soft put through a puree sieve; 
season to taste, add a cup of hot cream., and, if not quite 
thick enough, it may be thickened with a little butter and 
flour creamed together. 

Cream of Beet Soup 

Boil two bunches of new beets (forty-five minutes) and 
when cool enough to handle pare and grate them. Add the 
grated beet to a pint of white stock, heat, and when hot 
add a pint of hot cream, or rich milk; season to taste, 
thicken lightly if needed, though generally the grated 
beet is sufficient thickening. Serve hot. This will serve 
six persons. 

CEREAL SOUPS 

Cereal soups are in great favor as nursery soups but are 
also liked by "grown-ups," and make quite acceptable 
changes in the daily menu. 

Macaroni is a paste made from wheaten flour and water, 
partially baked as it is forced through the cylinder or 
machine that shapes it and makes it; then it is hung up to 



78 Sovips 

dry for several days. It is wholesome and nutritious and 
well deserves the place on the menu that it has won. 

Tapioca is a most excellent soup medium as well. It is 
made from the pith of the cassava tree, native to the East 
Indies and Brazil. Its nutritive properties are great and 
are especially adapted to delicate digestions. 

Rice is another grain that lends itself to cooking in various 
ways that are all most acceptable. The Hill rice, the Patna, 
and the Carolina are well known varieties. It is very 
nutritious when taken with other foods, but if eaten in 
large quantities alone it is apt to lay too long in the stomach 
and create indigestion. 

Tapioca Soup 

Put five ounces of tapioca into two quarts of cold white 
stock and bring it gradually to a boil. Simmer for an 
hour or longer, until it is tender. Season to taste, and just 
before serving add a wineglass of good sherry and serve 
with dry toast fingers. 

Macaroni Soup 

Add to two quarts of clear stock the macaroni that has 
been fixed in the following way : — Put three ounces of maca- 
roni and a piece of butter into boiling salted water and 
boil for half an hour. Drain and cut it into short lengths or 
rings, add it to the stock with the seasoning and a generous 
sprinkling of Paimesan cheese. It should soak in the 
stock fifteen minutes before adding the cheese — in fact, 
in many places the cheese is added at table. 

Rice Soup 

Throw four ounces of Patna rice into boiling water and 
let it boil five minutes. Then pour into a sieve and allow 
it to drain well. Then add it to two quarts of boiling 
white stock. Add a level teaspoon of salt, a quarter of a 



Soiaps 79 

saltspoon of pepper, and a pinch of mace. Just before it 
goes to table put a few tablespoons of whipped cream over 
the top and serve with toasted bread sippets. 

Vermicelli Soup 

Set a three-pound chicken to boil in two quarts of red 
stock ; add two slices of bacon, a bud of garlic, and an onion 
stuck with cloves. When the chicken is well done, take it 
out and strain the soup. Return it to the soup pot and, 
when it boils, add four ounces of vermicelli and the sea- 
soning; let boil for ten minutes, then add the chicken that 
has been diced, cook ten minutes more, then turn into 
the tureen and strew over the top toasted bread squares. 

Barley Soup 

Take two pounds of shin of beef, a quarter pound of 
pearl barley, and a soup bunch of vegetables, washed and 
chopped fine, arid four quarts of water. Boil slowly for 
three hours; add pepper and salt to taste. When ready to 
serve remove the bones and add toasted bread squares. 

Sago Soup 

Wash three ounces of sago in hot water, add it to two 
quarts of white stock, adding one bay leaf and a lump of 
sugar; simmer for half an hour, then add the beaten yolks 
of two eggs and a half pint of hot cream; stir quickly, but 
do not let them boil, as the eggs might curdle. Serve 
immediately. Samp may be used in the same way. 

Monte Carlo Soup 

Cut six slices of stale bread, butter them very lightly with 
soft butter, and sprinkle them thinly with sugar; then care- 
fully brown them in the oven and lay them in the soup 
tureen. Take a quart of highly seasoned white stock 
and add to it a pint of hot milk and a pint of hot cream ; just 



8o Sovips 

before serving time add a tablespoon of finely chopped 
celery leaves and turn all over the toast. 

Bread Soup 

Boil one pound of bread crusts in one quart of red stock, 
adding an ounce of butter, for half an hoiu:. Beat the 
crust up with a spoon and allow it to continue boiling until 
bread and stock are thoroughly mixed. Season with a 
level teaspoon of salt and a saltspoon of pepper. This soup 
is cheap, seasonable the year round, and this quantity serves 
four people. 

COLD AND JELLIED SOUPS 

Particularly attractive for summer serving are the 
different iced soups, or those which have been jellied. Soup 
still retains its place on the menu during the warm months, 
but often a hot soup is not desired and those served cold 
offer a pleasant variation. 

Clam Broth, Bellevue 

Make one quart of rich chicken broth, adding savory 
herbs and seasoning while it cooks; then strain and cool. 
Take one dozen and a half of Little Neck clams, wash care- 
fully, put in saucepan with one cup cold water; let simmer 
until all the clams have opened, strain the juice, and add to 
the chicken broth; when thoroughly chilled and ready to 
serve, put a tablespoon of whipped cream on top of each cup. 

Salianka 

Take a slice of codfish, the backbone of the cod, the 
bones and a few flakes of salmon, pint of water, and pint of 
white wine ; add a bunch of herbs, one onion, salt and pepper ; 
boil a half hour, then strain through fine sieve into service 
cups to allow it to chill and lightly jell. Serve with cucum- 



Soxjps 8i 

ber fingers that have been rubbed in salt to draw off their 
poison water, then rolled in powdered nuts with a dash of 
paprika. 

Essence of Chicken Madrilaine in Jelly 

Clean one three-pound fowl and joint it; add one pound 
calves' foot jelly, one bud garlic, one pound carrots, one 
pound leeks, one pound onions, six tomatoes, one teaspoon 
curry powder; add water to fill kettle, place over the fire 
until it reaches boiling point, then draw aside and allow 
to boil slowly for two hours. Strain through cheesecloth 
and set aside to cool; remove all grease with a blotting 
paper as it rises; when cool place in icebox until needed. 
This consommd when properly made is clear and partially 
jellied. Serve very cold. 

Iced Clam Broth 

Take three dozen little round clams, scrub them clean, 
and place them in an enamel saucepan, covering them with 
a cup and a half of cold water. Let them steam, after 
they get hot, for five minutes or until all the shells are 
open. Remove the clams from the shells, carefully strain 
the broth through cheesecloth and set against the ice to 
chill. When serving put a dash of pepper on the top of 
each cup and lay a wafer in the saucer. The clams may be 
covered with a little of the broth and chopped for fritters 
for breakfast or luncheon, so that they are not wasted. 

Frozen Beef Tea 

Make a good beef tea, the quantity which will be needed, 
strain, season with salt and pepper to taste, and dissolve 
in it one teaspoon of powdered gelatine. Let it get cold 
and then skim off all the grease. Beat the whites of two 
eggs very stiff, blend it with the beef tea. and freeze to the 
consistency of a heavy custard or mousse. Put a dash of 
6 



82 Soxips 

paprika over each portion and place a dainty soup stick 
on the saucer. 

Cherry Soup 

Crush the juice from one pound of large ripe cherries, 
add one pint of water, one pint of white wine, and one 
tablespoon of sugar. Stew fifteen minutes, strain carefully, 
and chill; serve in cup bedded in cracked ice, with the 
relishes. 

Raspberry Soup 

Wash carefully two quarts of raspberries, add to them one 
teacup of grape juice, one teacup of water, four ounces of 
sugar, and one stick of cinnamon four inches long. Boil all 
together for fifteen minutes, skimming carefully, cool and 
chill. 

Lemon Soup 

Make a rich hot lemonade and thicken it slightly with 
cornstarch, then let it get cold and chill. When ready 
to serve add a teaspoon of grated pineapple to each cup 
and a green Maraschino cherry. 

Orange Soup 

Make a strong lemonade of eight lemons and two oranges, 
add a cup of sugar and a pint and a half of boiling water, 
thicken slightly with cornstarch and let it cool. When 
cold add the scraped pulp of two oranges and one grape- 
fruit. Chill and serve in cups with a red cherry in each 
cup. 

Cold Beet Soup, Waldemar 

Grate eight cold boiled beets and place in a saucepan 
with a glass of white wine; boil five minutes, then strain 
through a fine cloth and set away to cool. Take four hard- 
boiled eggs, pass the yolks through a sieve and mix them 



Sovips 83 

with one pint of sour cream ; add to the beet essence, season 
well with salt and pepper, and serve in cups on ice with 
garniture of six radishes diced, egg whites cut in fine strips, 
and one cucumber which has been simmered in hot water 
five minutes, then thinly sliced. This is a most refreshing 
soup in hot weather. 

FRUIT AND NUT SOUPS 

Fruit and nut soups have nothing special to recommend 
their use other than adding a note of variety in soup offer- 
ings. America is receiving a greater variety of nuts from 
other countries than ever before and we are gradually learn- 
ing to use and appreciate them as we do the foreign fruits 
that were once only a rare luxury. 

Almonds are considered indigestible, and it is not well to 
eat too freely of them, as they contain a principle that 
produces two violent poisons, a volatile oil and prussic 
acid. They are considered least dangerous to the digestive 
organs when salted. Almond paste is the foundation of 
some of our most delicious candies, macaroons, and other 
French cookery. 

Almond Soup 

Boil four pounds of lean beef with a scrag of mutton in 
two and a half quarts of water until the meat is done and 
the gravy is rich; strain, and add eight ounces of vermicelli, 
four blades of mace, six cloves, and boil until the spices 
flavor. Blanch and pound half a pound of sweet almonds, 
mix a little soup while pounding, in order that the almonds 
may not grow oily; add the yolks of six hard-boiled eggs, 
pound until it is a mere pulp, mix all together, strain, heat, 
and just before serving add a gill of rich cream. 

Alligator Pear Soup 

Pare and cut into small pieces four good-sized alligator 
pears; put them in a double boiler with a pint of water and 



84 Soups 

one chopped red pepper, a quarter bud of garlic and one 
thinly sliced onion. Boil until very tender, put all through a 
puree sieve, add to it one pint of hot cream, a small lump 
of butter, pepper and salt to taste. If the soup is too 
thick, thin it slightly with a little bit of milk, but leave it 
a heavy soup and serve with toast squares that have been 
fried in butter and carefully drained. 

Aguacate Cream Soup 

Make a rich cream soup in the usual way, adding a 
generous flavoring of sweet herbs. Pare one alligator pear, 
remove the seed, and cut the pulp in small pieces. As the 
soup boils up for the last time, add the pear and serve. 

Plum Soup 

Boil four large tablespoons of pearl tapioca in one pint of 
water, adding to it one quart jar of canned plums ; add dash 
of nutmeg, two tablespoons of sugar, if it is not too 
sweet from the canned plums; strain; add one glass of 
madeira wine. If a thicker soup is desired, dissolve one 
tablespoon of arrowroot in a gill of sweet cream and add 
to the mixture, letting it boil up only once before serving. 

Prune Soup 

Soak eight prunes in one pint of water over night. In 
the morning remove the prunes and add to the water 
one pint of stock with three thickly sliced leeks, one level 
teaspoon of salt and a quarter saltspoon of pepper. Let 
the soup simmer until the leeks are tender, then add the 
prunes; boil five minutes and turn into a tureen that has 
been wiped with a bud of garlic. Serve toasted croutons 
with the soup. 

Apple Soup 

Apple soup will be found an agreeable change once in a 
while. Peel, quarter, and core two pounds of apples and 



Sovips 85 

boil in two quarts of good white stock until tender ; then rub 
through a sieve, add a quarter saltspoon of pepper, a level 
teaspoon of salt, a saltspoon of allspice, and a tablespoon of 
sugar, and just before serving add a glass of madeira and 
a gill of cream. Serve with toasted croutons. 

Apple Soup 

Peel, core, and cut in pieces four sour apples, add them 
to a quart of water, the juice of one lemon, and a grating 
of cinnamon, boil until the apples are entirely soft, then 
add one third cupful of boiled sago and sweeten to taste; 
just before serving add glass of white wine and cup of 
whipped cream. 

Cocoanut Soup, Hindustani 

Grate two fresh cocoanuts and mix them with one and a 
half quarts of white stock. Simmer gently for a half an 
hour, then season with one teaspoon of salt, a saltspoon of 
pepper, strain and thicken with two egg yolks beaten with 
juice of a lemon and enough flour to make a thin batter. 
Serve with croutons that have been fried in butter. 

Cocoanut Soup 

To three quarts of white stock add six ounces of grated 
cocoanut, a quarter saltspoon of pepper, a half teaspoon of 
salt, and a half saltspoon of mace ; simmer gently one hour ; 
strain and add a quarter pint of boiling cream; thicken 
with six ounces of rice flour. 

Spanish Chestnut Soup 

Peel and blanch three quarters of a pound of French 
chestnuts, cover them with a quart of good stock, and stew 
them gently for three quarters of an hour; drain, pound, 
and rub them through a fine sieve; add half a teaspoon of 



86 Soups 

salt, quarter saltspoon of pepper, a half saltspoon of mace, 
stir until it boils, then add one quarter pint of hot cream; 
serve with toasted croutons. 

Chestnut Soup 

Remove the shells from three quarters of a pound of 
French chestnuts and put them into warm water. When 
it becomes too hot to put the fingers into it, remove the 
chestnuts from the fire and blanch them. Rinse them 
and put them on the fire in a saucepan containing a quart 
of white stock. Let them boil until they are very soft, then 
rub all through a sieve. Add seasoning and a half pint of 
cream. Keep hot, but do not boil again. Serve croutons 
with the soup. 

Brazil Nut Soup 

For the soup select one pound of fresh Brazil nuts, shell, 
blanch, and put them through a grinder. Stew them for 
two hours in three pints of water, to which add a stalk of 
chopped celery, an onion, carrot, parsley, and a leek. When 
done pass through a sieve, add a pint of boiling milk, 
thickened slightly with a little butter and flour rubbed to a 
cream, season, and just as it is removed from the fire add a 
cup of hot cream. vServe with toast dice which have been 
fried in butter and carefully drained. 

Marron Soup 

Take one pint jar of marrons and turn them into a sauce- 
pan with the liquor and add one quart of good vegetable 
stock. Cook gently until the marrons are soft; then press 
through a sieve, season with salt, pepper, a teaspoon of 
Worcestershire sauce, four drops of kitchen bouquet, heat, 
add half a pint of hot, heavy cream, and serve with toasted 
croutons. This soup to be at its best must be served very 
hot. 



Soxips 87 

Cream of Peanut Soup 

Put one quart of milk into a double boiler and add to it 
the juice of one onion, a bay leaf, a half cup of chopped 
celery, a quarter saltspoon of pepper, a half teaspoon of salt 
and half a pint of peanut butter. Cook until all is smooth, 
then thicken with a tablespoon of cornstarch mixed in a 
little cold water. Serve hot with toasted croutons. This 
will serve four people. 

Orange Soup 

Pare and cut in pieces eight oranges and add them to one 
quart of water. Boil for half an hour, then strain, turn 
the juice back into the saucepan, and add a saltspoon of 
salt, and a half saltspoon of cayenne pepper. As it boils 
up add a half saltspoon of bicarbonate of soda, then thicken 
with a little butter and flour mixed to a cream. Remove 
from the fire and add a half pint of hot cream. Serve with 
the soup dry toast squares or croutons. 

SOUP GARNISHES 

The so-called soup garnishes include soup diunpllngs of 
all kinds, the various macaroni pastes which come in differ- 
ent shapes, diced vegetables and vegetable balls and blocks 
and forcemeat of different sorts. Besides the toasted 
croutons, fried bread crumbs, and toasted bread squares, 
there are also the toast rings that are dipped in melted butter 
and sprinkled with Parmesan cheese. Of course the 
garnishes can only be used in clear soups. And in using 
any of the dumplings they may be boiled in fair water, 
drained, and dropped in the soup, so by their cooking they 
do not boil away and waste any of the rich soup stock. 
The diced vegetables may always be prepared in the morn- 
ing and dropped into the soup when needed. The plain 
macaroni now comes colored pink with tomato sauce, and 
colored green with spinach, which makes it decorative for 



88 Soxaps 

soup use. After boiling in clear water it may be cut into 
rings or short lengths, and in a plain tomato or consomme 
soup it is very pretty. 

Still finer than the vermicelli is the Swiss brand of the 
paste called angel tresses, which is very fine and dainty for 
use in clear soups; while for garnishing nursery soups the 
marcaroni paste alphabet is still popular. 

Croutons 

Cut sliced bread into squares, triangles, or rings; trim 
off all crusts and fry a delicate brown in butter. Drain and 
they are ready to serve. 

Plain toast squares are made by cutting large dice from 
thick slices of bread and drying them in the oven, allowing 
them to become a delicate brown. 

Toast rings are made by drying bread rings in the oven, 
then smearing them with melted butter and dusting them 
with grated cheese, to which a little pepper and salt may be 
added. 

Cracker Diunplings 

Soak six thick soda crackers in water for two minutes, 
then press dry. Fry one minced onion in butter and pour 
over the ^crackers ; add three beaten eggs, a saltspoon of salt, 
and a half saltspoon of pepper. Beat all together and add 
enough cracker meal to be able to form the mixture into 
dumplings about the size of a large marble. Drop the 
dumplings in boiling salted water and boil ten minutes; 
drain, and drop into the hot soup. 

Austrian Potato Dumplings 

Boil five potatoes in salted water for twenty-five minutes ; 
drain, cool, and grate them; add to them four beaten eggs, 
two tablespoons of melted butter, a level teaspoon of salt, 
a half saltspoon of pepper, and flour enough, sifted in, to be 



Soups 89 

able to mold the mixture into dumplings. Fry them a 
delicate brown in hot fat, drain, and drop into the clear 
soup. 

German Liver Dumplings 

Take a half pound of calf's liver, wash, and chop fine 
with one onion, add two beaten eggs, a level teaspoon of 
salt and a saltspoon of pepper, a teaspoon of melted butter, 
and enough dry bread crumbs to shape the mixture into 
balls. Drop into boiling, salted water and boil fifteen 
minutes; drain and add to the soup. 

Soup Dumplings 

Chop finely a half cupful of suet, add half cupful of flour, 
a quarter teaspoon of salt, a few drops of onion juice, 
pepper, and enough ice water to moisten the mixture. Roll 
into smooth dtmiplings, the size of a marble, and lay on 
floured plate. When ready, allow them to boil ten minutes 
in soup and serve. 

Coronet Dumplings 

These are also to be used in clear soup. To one pint of 
clear, rich tomato soup, add sprinkling of salt, pepper, 
nutmeg, and stir in five well beaten eggs. Pour the 
mixture into a well buttered pudding mold. Set the bowl 
into boiling water and allow it to boil one hour. Be careful 
to keep the water out of the mold, by covering it and 
not allowing the water to boil too hard. When sufficiently 
cooked, cut into balls with a potato scoop and drop into 
the soup. Allow three to each soup plate. 

Stew Dumplings 

The best stew dumplings are those made from bread 
dough. Pinch them off when the loaves are to be put in 



90 Soxips 

the pans and let them raise on a floured board until a half 
hour before dinner. Then drop them on the top of the 
boiling chicken or lamb stew, covering tightly with a cloth 
and the pot cover, and let them boil twenty minutes. Take 
them out, serve on a hot platter, and the stew on another 
platter, pouring on last the gravy, which has been 
thickened. 

Baking Powder Dumplings 

These are very nice for stew, but cannot equal the raised 
ones. Mix one pint sifted flour, two teaspoons baking 
powder, and half teaspoon of salt. Mix to a soft dough 
with milk, turn on the board, roll out an inch thick, and cut 
in small circles with cookie cutter. Roll in flour, drop on 
top of the simmering stew, cover, and cook twenty minutes 
without opening the pot. 

Marrow Balls for Soup 

Melt a tablespoon of marrow and strain through a cloth. 
Beat it until creamy, then add one egg, pepper, salt, and a 
little nutmeg. Beat again thoroughly, and add as much 
soft bread cnmibs as the mixture will absorb. Shape in 
marbles, poach in boiling water, and put into the soup just 
before serving. 

Potato Diunplings 

These are to be served with pot roast or fricassee. Mix 
with one dozen cold boiled potatoes, grated, six table- 
spoons of flour, two tablespoons baking powder, salt, and 
nutmeg. Add a tablespoon of melted butter and three 
eggs, one at a time, mixing thoroughly. Form into balls 
about the size of a small apple, put into boiling water, 
which has been well salted, and boil fifteen minutes. Take 
out dumplings with a skimmer and garnish the roast with 
them. 



Soxips 91 

Suet Dumplings 

Chop and free from skin a quarter of a pound of fresh 
beef suet. Add a cup and a half of flour, a half teaspoon 
of salt, a teaspoon of sugar, a dash of cayenne pepper, a salt- 
spoon of baking powder, and enough water to form them 
into small dumplings the size of marbles. Put on a floured 
plate until ready to drop them into the soup. Boil fifteen 
minutes. 

Almond Balls 

Blanch and chop twenty-four Jordan almonds and mix 
with them a small cup of dry bread crumbs, a half teaspoon 
of salt, a quarter saltspoon of pepper, and the whites of two 
eggs; mold the mixture into small balls and fry them a 
golden brown in olive oil. Drain and add to the soup. 

Marrow Balls 

Take a quarter of a cup of chopped marrow and add to it 
a half a cup of bread crumbs, a teaspoon of onion juice, a 
saltspoon of salt, and a quarter saltspoon of pepper, the 
beaten yolk of one egg, and three drops of kitchen bouquet. 
Mold the mixture into small balls, dip them into the white 
of egg to seal them, and drop them into boiling water. 
Allow them to boil for two or three minutes, then lift them 
out and drop them into the hot soup. 

Forcemeat Balls 

Take four tablespoons of any cold, chopped meat, or dry, 
boiled, cold fish, add to this four tablespoons of bread 
crumbs, a half teaspoon of chopped tarragon leaves, a half 
teaspoon of onion juice, one teaspoon of chutney syrup, 
saltspoon of salt, and a quarter of a saltspoon of pepper, 
and bind all together with the yolk of one egg. Form into 
small balls and drop them into a slowly boiling soup, and 
boil five minutes. 



92 Sovips 

Heart of Palm Potage 

This excellent dainty comes all prepared in pint and 
quart jars and only needs heating, and the addition of a gill 
of cream to the pint and two gills to the quart, before serving. 
The potage is expensive, so is classed among the luxuries 
like the following one. 

Birds* Nest Soup 

The birds* nests are made of a mucilaginous moss by 
birds who live by the sea on the coast of China. The nests 
are hard and dry when they are imported and cost a dollar 
and a half each. To prepare them they must be soaked in 
water for forty-eight hours, changing the water often. They 
then have to be gently boiled until the nests are like soft 
gelatine; they are then ready to add, one or a half one to each 
plate of clear soup. They are much the same in flavor as 
the spine of the sturgeon (vesigha) which comes from 
Russia for use, after forty-eight hours' soaking, in stews. 
This odd dainty sells at three dollars a pound. 



FISH 

Reputable fishmongers recognize but one kind, and that 
is "fresh fish." Remember this fact: Fresh fish properly 
cooked never creates illness, and is one of the most valuable 
and economical food products brought to our markets. 

In choosing fish a proof of the freshness and goodness 
thereof is in the appearance and presence of the scales. It 
is possible for a fish to be fresh and still not good. Just 
before spawning the fish are supposed to be in the best 
edible condition. After spawning they are "out of season" 
and not fit for table use, no matter how fresh they may 
appear. 

Fish out of season have a transparent bluish tinge when 
they are boiled, but when in season the muscles are firm 
and boil white and curdy. For instance, the codfish is at its 
best when it is plump and round at the tail, and the hollow 
behind the head is deep, and when the sides are undulated, 
as if ribbed. Another test good for cod, and other fish as 
well, is to press the finger into the side, and if the indent 
fills immediately the fish is fresh ; if not, it is stale. 

Salmon, mackerel, herring, and trout soon spoil after 
they are caught; therefore they should be eaten as soon as 
possible. Other fish may be kept a few hours if wrapped 
in a linen cloth which has been wrung out of cold water and 
placed on the ice. 

In choosing a fish it is well to note that the gills are 
red, but this is not an infallible rule of freshness. 

Fish is less nourishing than meat, for it is lighter in 
weight, size for size, and contains no osmazome. Choosing 
fish for the table is a fine art, and the housekeeper will find 

93 



94 FisH 

it greatly to her advantage to spend a few moments with 
her fishmonger, when he is among his wares, so that he may 
illustrate. 

In choosing mackerel its bright appearance and rather 
transparent look is a good test to go by. 

The artistic garnishing of fish and the art of making 
tempting sauces are secrets to learn in fish cookery. 

If fish cookery is well studied the cook will find many so- 
called economical ways of using fish "left overs" that will 
prove delicious dishes for luncheon and breakfast ; also some 
fish salads and entree dishes may be concocted in this way, 
seasoned with the left-over sauces, so that nothing goes to 
waste. Lemon, parsley, either green or fried, hard-boiled 
eggs, cold boiled beets and carrots cut in fancy shapes, 
water chestnuts, watercress, cane sprouts, fried artichoke 
hearts, fried pineapple dice, and savory rice balls are among 
the favorite fish garnishes used. 

In frying fish, instead of dipping it in egg, then in the 
fine bread crumbs, dip the fish in good olive oil, then the 
crumbs, and it will better retain its flavor and also fry more 
evenly. 

To Boil Fish 

Fish intended for boiling should always be put on the 
fire in cold water and let come slowly to a boil; otherwise 
the outside will break before the middle is done. The boiled 
fish should be removed from the water as soon as it is cooked, 
before it grows "woolly," and placed in a fish platter over the 
kettle of hot water to keep it hot until it is sent to the 
table. Its cooking should be timed as closely as possible 
to the dinner hour. 

To Bake Fish 

In baking fish an unwritten culinary law is to let the 
head remain on, and it should be basted quite as carefully 
during its cooking as a joint of meat. Fish intended for 



FisK 95 

frying must be rinsed quickly in cold water, wiped dry 
with a soft cloth, then brushed over with egg and fine 
bread crumbs, frying it in hot fat or oil deep enough to 
just cover it; when it is done drain it on white blotting 
paper. 

All fish should be placed on china or enamel plates, with 
silver or wooden forks and spoons where it is necessary. 
It should be removed at once from the butcher paper 
in which it is delivered, and wrapped immediately in 
fresh wax paper or clean linen cloth until it is needed. 
Always boil fish in an enameled fish kettle — never in tin 
or iron. 

In choosing salmon be sure that the belly is round and 
firm. The steaks cut from back of the shoulders are best for 
broiling or frying. The next cut is better for boiling pur- 
poses. The salmon is not as good baked as some other 
fish, as it is apt to bake dry, and it is also too solid a fish for 
chowder. 

Salmon are cured by splitting and rubbing with salt, then 
placing them in a brine in clean tubs for about six weeks. 
Then they are drained and packed in casks between layers 
of salt. 

In cooking or serving salmon do not use vinegar with it, 
as it discolors the fish and destroys the flavor. Plain boiled 
salmon if served hot is usually accompanied by cream sauce, 
melted butter sauce with parsley and lemon, or by a 
cucumber sauce. 

If salmon is to be served baked, to prevent it from being 
dry it should be basted carefully and very often with melted 
butter and a little white wine, which will keep it moist 
and add a rich flavor to it. Caper sauce is often served 
with baked as well as boiled salmon. 

Salmon steaks are sometimes broiled over a steady fire on 
a well buttered gridiron, then spread with butter, pepper, and 
salt, and garnished with lemon and watercress. They are 
also rolled in egg, cracker dust, and a faint sprinkle of grated 
cheese, then fried in very hot fat. 



96 FisK 

Boiled Salmon 

Select a four-pound fish, or have a piece cut from the 
shoulders of a larger fish, rinse it in cold water, wrap it in a 
linen cloth, and put it in the fish kettle covered with cold 
water. Put into the water a bay leaf, a small sliced 
onion, two cloves, and a small strip of lemon peel. After 
the fish starts to boil let it cook evenly, but not too briskly 
for fear of breaking the meat, for twenty minutes. When 
done lift it carefully, drain, and place on a hot platter. 
Garnish with cold boiled egg quarters and sliced lemon 
with a spray of parsley drawn through each slice. Hol- 
landaise sauce, plain drawn butter, tartare sauce, or any 
good fish sauce may be served with the fish. 

Freshly boiled salmon also makes an excellent breakfast 
dish, flaked in a cream sauce with thinly sliced hard-boiled 
eggs; garnish with toast sippets. 

Salmon a la Genevese 

Place ill a stewpan a limip of butter, four tablespoons of 
madeira wine, a quarter saltspoon of pepper, a saltspoon of 
salt, two chopped shalots, two bay leaves, a half saltspoon 
of allspice, and two slices of salmon, and stew gently a 
half hour. Strain off the gravy, and add to it a half pint of 
white stock, juice of one lemon, and one teaspoon essence 
of anchovies. Simmer and thicken with flour and butter 
rubbed to a cream. Lay the fish on a hot dish and turn 
part of the sauce over it, serving the rest in a tureen. 

Salmon Fish Cakes 

Boil two pounds of salmon until tender, bone and flake 
it, and add it to six mashed potatoes (hot), a level saltspoon 
of pepper, a level teaspoon of salt, and a heaping tablespoon 
of butter; work with the hands and mold into small 
cakes one inch thick ; dust with flour and fry in hot lard to a 
delicate brown; garnish with cress. 



Fish 97 

Salmon Cutlets 

Have the salmon cut near the shoulders in thin steaks. 
Trim, wash, dip first in beaten egg, then in fine crumbs, 
and fry a delicate brown. Serve a tablespoon of tartare 
sauce on each cutlet and garnish with a spray of parsley 
drawn through a slice of lemon. 

Salmon Souffle 

Flake enough cold boiled salmon to make two cups. 
Add a quarter saltspoon of pepper, a saltspoon of salt, the 
juice of an onion, two finely chopped cold boiled eggs, a 
teaspoon of chopped tarragon leaves, half a gill of melted 
butter, half a gill of cream, and the stiffly beaten whites of 
three eggs. Toss the ingredients lightly and turn into 
buttered ramekins. Bake until puffed up and delicately 
browned. 

Salmon a la Carbon 

Take one can of salmon, remove all bones, flake with a 
silver fork, and place in a mixing bowl with a saltspoon of 
salt, a quarter saltspoon of pepper, and a teaspoon of 
French mustard. Mix one tablespoon of butter and one 
teaspoon of flour and thicken a half cup of boiling milk. 
Take from the fire and add two well beaten eggs, mix all 
together, and fill scallop shells or ramekins with the mixture, 
sprinkling lightly with fine bread crumbs. Bake a delicate 
brown, serving in the shells with a spray of parsley on the 
top. 

Salmon in Ramekins 

A can of salmon will do very well. Remove from the 
can, flake, removing all skin, bone, and liquid; then place 
it in a mixing bowl, add a teaspoon of salt, one dessert- 
spoon of mustard sauce, and a quarter of a saltspoon of 
pepper; rub one heaping tablespoon of butter and one 



98 risK 

heaping teaspoon of flour to a cream, and add to a half cup 
of hot milk at boiling point. When it slightly thickens 
remove from the stove, add three well beaten eggs, and 
mix all with the salmon; fill well buttered ramekins with 
the mixture and sprinkle with cracker dust, then brown 
lightly in moderate oven. 

Deviled Salmon 

Open four one-pound cans of salmon, drain, and remove 
the bones, then flake finely with a silver fork. Add three 
cups of fine bread crumbs, three tablespoons of Worcester- 
shire sauce, a cup of melted butter, pepper, salt, one cup 
or a little less of fresh pineapple juice, and a half cup of the 
grated pineapple. Mix all well together, then add the 
stifliy beaten whites of three eggs. Fill scalloped shells, 
well buttered, with the mixture and bake to a delicate 
brown. Serve hot or cold, garnished with sprays of fresh 
cress. 

Baked Tile 

Select a tilefish weighing from three to five pounds and 
have it prepared for baking in the usual way. Prepare a 
highly seasoned savory stuffing of crumbs, chopped celery, 
grated onion, a saltspoon of pepper, a half teaspoon of 
salt, a dusting of sweet herbs, beaten egg, melted butter, 
and a little tomato ketchup. Make enough of the stuffing 
so that a small portion may be served with each helping 
of the fish. Before baking lay across the openings after 
they are stuffed thin strips of bacon and pin them in place. 
Lay the fish on a well buttered rack, dust with pepper and 
salt, and baste frequently with a little melted butter which 
has a little lemon juice in it. When the fish is done slide 
it to the platter and garnish with slices of broiled potatoes 
around the edge of the dish, and thin slices of lemon with 
little bunches of parsley drawn through them. Strain the 
dish gravy from under the fish and add to it one cup of 



FisK 99 

strained tomato juice, thicken slightly, and serve in a tiireen 
with the fish. 

Broiled Tile 

Have the slices for broiling cut the same as for steaks, 
sprinkle them with a little salt and pepper, brush them over 
with olive oil, and broil over a clear fire for about seven to 
eight minutes, on each side. When delicately brown put 
on a hot platter and turn over the slices a little melted 
butter that has a few drops of onion juice, lemon juice, 
pepper and salt in it. Garnish with lemon quarters and 
parsley. 

Tilefish Cakes 

Boil two potmds of tile, drain and flake it. Have boiled 
and mashed ten white potatoes. Mash the fish with the 
potato, add two tablespoons of butter, season with a salt- 
spoon of pepper and a teaspoon of salt, and add enough 
sweet cream to make the mixture light enough to shape 
into cakes. Fold in the whites of two stiffly beaten eggs 
and mold the cakes by hand into fish-ball size. Dust 
them with flour and fry in deep hot fat. When done 
drain and serve with a little slice of delicately fried bacon on 
top of each cake. Garnish with fresh cress. 

Tile Turbot 

The boiled fish, served with drawn butter in the usual 
way like cod, will make an excellent dinner fish, and what 
is left over may be utilized for a luncheon ttubot the next 
day. For the turbot, flake the fish and put a layer in the 
bottom of a well buttered baking dish, next put in a layer 
of fine crumbs with a little chopped onion and celery, and a 
little of the drawn butter if there is any left. Proceed in 
this way until the dish is full. Dust with pepper and 
salt, add a teaspoon of sugar and turn in a cup of sweet 



loo FisH 

milk, a gill of melted butter, and a half cup of sweet cream. 
Bake until it is a delicate brown, about half an hour usually, 
and serve hot. 

Filet of Tile 

Cut the fish in filets, dust with pepper and salt, and roll 
them in flour; dip them in beaten egg, then roll them in 
bread crumbs. Fry in deep fat a delicate brown, drain, and 
serve garnished with lemon and parsley. Have a sauce 
ready to put over them of tomato, highly seasoned and 
very smooth. Serve it in a hot tureen. 

Tilefish Rataplan 

Take three pounds of fresh boiled fish, drain and flake it 
while still hot. Have ready twenty-five oysters that have 
been sauted in butter. Turn them over the fish and over all 
turn a rich cream sauce. Garnish with toast sippets and 
parsley, dust the top with paprika, and serve very hot. 
This is a very elegant fish dish for special occasions. 

Escalloped Tile 

Flake two cups of the cold boiled fish, add a half cup of 
bread crumbs, a half cup of grated cheese, a half gill of 
melted butter, pepper, salt, a teaspoon of chopped tarragon 
leaves, the juice of an onion, a tablespoon of Worcestershire 
sauce, and the beaten white of one egg. Fill well buttered 
ramekins with the mixture and bake until the fish is a 
delicate brown. 

Broiled Shad 

Select a fresh medium-sized shad and have it carefully 
scaled and split. If it is thick enough an expert fishman 
can remove the backbone, which is a decided advantage. 
Rinse and dry the fish, then place it on a platter and cover 
it with the following warm mixture and let it stand twenty 



FisK loi 

minutes: Juice of one onion, juice of half a lemon, a salt- 
spoon of pepper, a half teaspoon of salt, a gill of melted 
butter, three cloves, a teaspoon of Worcestershire sauce, 
and a quarter gill of white wine. Butter the gridiron well, 
drain the fish, and lay it skin down on the broiler; broil over 
a steady fire. Turn it only long enough to brown slightly, 
then slip it onto a hot platter and dust with pepper and salt 
and butter well ; strain and heat the sauce in which the fish 
marinated and add to it a teaspoon of fennel seed. 
Serve in a small tureen. Garnish with broiled potatoes, 
parsley, and lemon quarters. 

Baked Shad, Vegetable Stuffing 

Prepare one good-sized shad for baking, leaving the head 
on. Take one pint of vegetable mac^doine, boil three 
minutes, then mash through a sieve; add one beaten egg, 
a half teaspoon of salt, a saltspoon of pepper, juice of an 
onion, three tablespoons of melted butter, three of 
cream, and a tablespoon of chutney syrup. Beat well 
together and add enough fine bread crtmibs to hold it 
together; fill the fish not too full, then sew it up and use 
the rest of the stuffing in the head. Lay the fish on a well 
buttered rack, basting with a little melted butter, salt, 
pepper, lemon juice, and a tablespoon of madeira wine. 
When done lay on a bed of fresh cress on a hot platter and 
garnish it with hard-boiled egg rings and capers. Strain 
the gravy from the dripping pan and add it to a good cream 
sauce. Stir in thoroughly, but do not let it boil. 

Planked Shad 

(Recipe for the planking of any fish) 

Prepare the shad in the usual way for planking, have the 
plank ready heated, and fasten the fish, skin side down, 
using glass thumbtacks to hold it in place. The fish 
must be often tested with a fork to see if it is light and 



102 FisK 

flaky. When done, butter freely, sprinkle with pepper 
and salt, garnish the edge with mashed potato put through 
the pastry bag, parsley, and lemon quarters. Deviled 
eggs are also used as decorative garnish. 

Shad Cakes 

To two cups of flaked boiled shad add two cups of mashed 
potato, a tablespoon of butter, a level saltspoon of pepper, 
a half teaspoon of salt, one beaten egg, and enough sweet 
cream so that the mass can be molded by hand into cakes 
of the usual fish-cake size. Fry a delicate brown in hot fat, 
and serve on a hot platter with a broiled slice of bacon on 
top of each cake, and garnish with a little fresh cress. 

Creamed Shad with Asparagus 

Free from bone two cups of cold boiled or broiled shad, 
make a rich cream sauce not too heavy, dice into it one cold 
boiled egg and the fish. Take the tender stalks of freshly 
boiled asparagus cut in small pieces and add to the mixture. 
Have ready slices of toast arranged upon the platter, turn 
the fish over them, and garnish with sprays of fried parsley 
and the yolk of a hard-boiled egg, that has been put through 
the ricer, sprinkled over the top. 

Escalloped Shad 

To the meat of one boiled lobster cut very fine add two 
cups of boned cold boiled shad. Butter a deep baking 
dish, place a layer of the fish and lobster in the bottom, then 
a layer of bread crumbs, dot with butter, sprinkle with 
pepper and salt, then another layer of the shad and lobster, 
then the crumbs, butter, pepper, and salt, and so on until the 
dish is filled. Beat one egg in one cup of milk, turn into the 
mixture, add a gill of cream, dust the top with pepper and 
salt and two tablespoons of grated English cheese. Bake, 
and when done serve in the dish in which it was cooked, 
placed in a silver container or wrapped in a napkin. 



FisK 103 

Shad Peppers 

One cup of cold boiled flaked shad, one cup of crab meat, 
small grated onion, half a cup of chopped celery, gill of 
melted butter, gill of cream, a saltspoon of salt, a half 
saltspoon of pepper, and tablespoon of grated cheese. Fill 
half green pepper shells with the mixture, place in well 
buttered baking dish, and bake a delicate brown. Serve as 
an entree for dinner. 

Shad Creole 

Boil one medium-sized shad. When done skin, bone, and 
flake; then add two eggs beaten in one cup of milk, three 
quarters of a cup of bread crumbs, a saltspoon of pepper 
and a half teaspoon of salt, juice of an onion, gill of melted 
butter, gill of cream; slice thin two medium-sized cucumbers, 
plunge them into boiling water for ten minutes, drain, 
slightly cool, add to the fish mixture; butter ramekins, fill 
them with the mixture, dust the top of each with a little 
grated English cheese, and bake. Garnish with a slice of 
lemon through which a spray of parsley is drawn. Use as an 
entree or for the fish course. 

Savory Shad Roe 

Wash and parboil one shad roe, putting it on in cold 
water and letting it slowly come to a boil, then let it boil 
until it is done (fifteen to twenty minutes), but not broken to 
pieces. Drain and cool. Slice one cucimiber thin, plunge 
into boiling water and let stand for ten minutes, drain, 
and while it is cooling make a very small quantity of cream 
sauce, put in the cucumber, add a saltspoon of pepper and 
half a teaspoon of salt, one grated onion, one teaspoon of 
fennel seed, teaspoon of Worcestershire sauce, two table- 
spoons of sherry. Now, with a very sharp knife, split the 
roe and put in the filling, using all of the solid portion. 
Have a small, well buttered baking dish with a cover that 



104 FisK 

fits, and place the roe in it; turn the rest of the sauce over 
the roe, sprinkle with a few bread crumbs, dust with pepper 
and salt, and cover in the oven until all is thoroughly hot, 
cook ten or fifteen minutes, take off cover and brown. 
With great care place it on the platter without breaking and 
garnish with a little fresh cress and olive rings. 

Belgian Stuffed Shad 

Carefully split a thick shad and remove the backbone. 
Make a savory stuffing of a cup of bread crumbs, one cold 
boiled egg, chopped, one minced onion, one minced red 
pepper, a teaspoon of chopped parsley, a half gill of melted 
butter, and a teaspoon of chopped savory herbs. Add one 
beaten egg; mix the stuffing well; spread the lower half of 
the shad; place the upper half over it; dust it with pepper 
and salt; turn over two cups of strained tomato juice, and 
bake, basting often. When the shad is done remove it to a 
hot platter; add a cup of savory stock to the dish gravy, 
thicken slightly with a little butter and flour mixed to a 
cream, and strain it over the shad. 

Baked Red Snapper 

Have a five-pound red snapper cut and fixed for stuffing, 
leaving the head on. Wash the fish carefully, dust with 
pepper and salt, and place it in a well buttered baking pan 
on a few shces of pickled pork cut very thin. Make a 
savory stuffing of half a cup of shredded cold boiled lobster, 
— the rest of the lobster may be used for salad, — one cup of 
bread crumbs, half saltspoon of pepper, a half teaspoon of 
salt, a teaspoon of powdered savory herbs, a half teaspoon 
of hot Southern sauce, one beaten egg, two tablespoons of 
fresh grated pineapple, and half a cup of melted butter. 
Mix well and stuff the fish, leaving room for the stuffing to 
swell and placing what is left over in the head. Place a 
cup of water in the baking pan, cover the fish for fifteen 
minutes, and then baste with melted butter to which has 



FisK 105 

been added the juice of a lemon, a little white wine, and a 
tablespoon of fennel seed. Baste often until the fish is 
done, which will be about forty minutes, remove carefully 
to the serving platter on which has been arranged a bed of 
cress, and garnish the edge of the platter with stuffed baked 
peppers and toast sippets. Place on the fish the white 
rings of hard-boiled eggs ; make a rich cream sauce, not too 
thick, straining into it the dish gravy from the baking pan 
and coloring it a delicate green with Breton vegetable coloring. 

Planked Red Snapper 

For planking a small snapper must be chosen one not 
weighing more than three pounds. Prepare it in the usual 
way, adding to the melted butter which is turned over it 
two tablespoons of madeira wine in which a small spice 
bag has stood for an hour, a saltspoon each of salt and 
pepper, a half teaspoon of sugar, and a tablespoon of pine- 
apple juice. Before serving garnish the edge of the plank 
with mashed potato roses done with a pastry bag and 
fresh green peas that have been steamed in their pods. 

Snapper a la Carbon 

Flake a pound and a half of cold boiled red snapper, 
and to it add one cup of fresh boiled and shredded shrimps, 
three quarters of a cup of finely minced bread crumbs, the 
juice of one onion, a dusting of pepper and salt, half a cup 
of melted butter, and a cup of cream. Mix lightly and fill 
buttered ramekins with the mixture, grating a little old 
English cheese over the top of each ramekin. Bake to a 
delicate brown in a medium oven and serve with hot finger 
rolls on the side. Garnish with a spray of watercress. 

Snapper Chops 

Flake a pound and a half of boiled red snapper, add to it 
one cup of flaked crab meat, three quarters of a cup of 



io6 FisH 

bread crumbs, one grated onion, two tablespoons of melted 
butter, a saltspoon of pepper, a half teaspoon of salt, three 
drops of tabasco sauce, two beaten eggs, a gill of cream, and 
two tablespoons of tomato ketchup. Mix all thoroughly 
and shape into chops. If the mixture should be too moist 
add a few more dry bread crumbs. Roll the chops in 
beaten egg, then in fine crimibs, and fry them in hot fat. 
When done drain carefully and stick in each a pastry 
stick three inches long to represent the bone. Pile on a 
platter garnished with fried parsley, slices of broiled potatoes, 
and lemon cut in quarters. 

Snapper a la Newburg 

Flake one pound and a half of cold boiled red snapper, 
drain and dry one pint of oysters, add them to the fish, 
add a saltspoon of pepper, a heaping saltspoon of salt, four 
thinly sliced truffles, a teaspoon of onion juice, one anchovy, 
and six pitted and thinly sliced olives. Make the New- 
burg sauce in the usual way, add the other ingredients, 
mix thoroughly, and allow them to boil up for two minutes 
in the chafing dish, when it will be ready to serve. 

Codfish Broiled and in Balls 

Salt codfish comes to market in several forms, but the 
big whole fish is by far the best to buy. It makes the best 
fish balls, and when a portion is soaked over night and 
delicately broiled it makes a most inviting breakfast dish. 
The fish comes also cut in square pieces and packed in 
boxes, and is less trouble in this form than the big fish, 
but it has not quite as good flavor. That which is desic- 
cated is usually flat and tasteless. The whole fish will cost 
fifty or sixty cents and will yield one breakfast broil and 
two breakfasts of fish cakes. These are made by adding 
six or eight mashed potatoes to the fish, with a heaping 
tablespoon of butter, a gill of cream, and one egg. The fish 
should be soaked over night, then scalded and simmered 



FisK 107 

gently until tender, but not allowed to boil, then flaked, 
freed from skin and bones, and mashed, when it is ready 
for the potato and seasoning. 

Curried Codfish 

For the curried codfish for two persons take two large 
slices; for four persons, increase in proportion; flake them 
and fry in three ounces of butter and one grated onion. Then 
put in a stewpan with a teacup of white stock, thicken 
slightly with butter and flour creamed together, stir in a 
quarter of a pint of cream, season to taste, and let it boil up 
once and serve. To the stock in which the cod is stewed 
add a small spoonful of curry powder and let it simmer for 
an hour the day before serving, thus very much improving 
the flavor. Garnish with broiled potatoes and fried parsley, 
and turn onto slices of toast. 

Codfish Pie 

Line a baking dish with good puff paste. Boil two and 
a half pounds of fresh cod, and when cold strip from the 
bones, flake fine, add a half saltspoon of pepper, a saltspoon 
of salt, two minced onions, a few fine bread crumbs, one cup 
of milk in which two eggs have been beaten, and plenty of 
butter. Fill the pie with the mixture. Cut the crust into 
strips and lattice the top and bake a delicate brown. Serve 
hot. 

Codfish Pie 

Free from bone, skin, and flake enough cold boiled codfish 
to make two cupfuls. Add to it one dozen raw oysters, or 
one dozen little round clams that have been steamed; one 
gill of melted butter, one gill of sweet cream, a half saltspoon 
of pepper, a saltspoon of salt, the juice of an onion, and 
one beaten egg. Have ready a small pie plate lined with 
crust, potu* the mixture in, and spread over the top a layer of 



io8 FisK 

mashed potato; then put on the top crust and bake. This 
pie is best hot, but may also be eaten cold. 

Codfish au Gratin 

Take two pounds of fresh boiled codfish, flake it after 
freeing it from skin and bone, add a cup of bread crumbs, 
the juice of an onion and a tablespoon of chopped chives, 
half saltspoon of pepper and half teaspoon of salt, a gill of 
melted butter, one egg beaten in a small cup of sweet milk, 
three tablespoons of grated cheese, and a gill of cream. 
Put in well buttered baking shells and bake a delicate 
brown. Serve hot finger rolls with the fish and garnish 
with a spray of cress and a radish rose. 

Cod Peppers 

Lightly flake a small quantity of boiled codfish, add eight 
shrimp broken in small pieces, saltspoon of pepper half 
teaspoon of salt, juice of an onion, juice of half a lemon, a 
generous amount of butter; fill half pepper shells, grate a 
little cheese on the surface, and bake in a moderate oven 
until a delicate brown. 

Cod Croquettes 

To two cups of cold boiled codfish finely flaked add a cup 
of fine bread crumbs, one egg, seasoning, a lump of butter, 
and a gill of cream. Form into croquettes, roll in egg and 
fine cnmibs, to which has been added a slight grating of 
cheese; fry to a delicate brown in butter, drain, and serve 
on a doily, garnished with cress and lemon quarters. Serve 
the shrimp sauce in a silver sauce-boat. Melt enough 
butter to make one third of a pint, shell and shred half a 
can of Barataria shrimp, add cayenne pepper, a teaspoon 
of finely chopped parsley, half a teaspoon of onion juice, 
and half a teaspoon of mustard sauce, and serve hot. 



FisK 109 

Creamed Codfish on Toast 

Bone and flake two pounds of cold boiled codfish. Make 
a good cream sauce, slice two hard-boiled eggs through 
it, add the fish, and serve on slices of toast arranged on a 
hot platter. Garnish with sprays of fresh cress and toast 
sippets. 

Creamed Codfish Tongues 

Parboil as many tongues as are needed to allow one to a 
portion. When done, remove root and skin and have ready 
a French cream sauce made in the following way : Put in a 
saucepan half a cup of butter, and when melted add the 
juice of a lemon, add as much bicarbonate of soda as would 
cover a ten-cent piece, and then add a large cup of rich milk 
that has had a dessertspoon of cornstarch dissolved in it. 
Stir until it is smooth, then add pepper,salt, and the tongues. 
When all is hot, serve. 

Pineapple Cod en Casserole 

Take two pounds of cod steak and boil the usual way; 
when done, drain, bone, and flake. Place in a well buttered 
casserole, dust with pepper and salt, and turn over it a 
gill of melted butter, the juice of one onion, and a tablespoon 
of chutney syrup. Boil hard two eggs and slice them 
thinly over the fish, then add one cup of freshly grated 
pineapple, two tablespoons of grated bread crumbs, and last 
of all one cup of carefully made brown sauce. If desired, a 
dozen tiny potato balls, fashioned with the cutter, may be 
added. 

Polish Filled Fish 

Take a five-pound cod, tile, or any other fish liked, and 
after it is scaled and cleaned split it down the back and 
remove carefully the backbone. Have ready a highly 
seasoned filling and stuff the fish, not too full; then sew up 



no FisK 

the back and sew up the apron, filling the head with the 
remainder of the stuffing. Turn a little olive oil over the 
fish, dust it with pepper and salt, and bake it, basting it 
with a little melted butter in which the juice of half a lemon 
and an onion have been squeezed and a few fennel seeds 
added. Serve garnished with slices of broiled potato and 
parsley. 

Codfish Turbot 

Flake, skin, and bone two pounds of boiled codfish. 
Place a layer of the fish in a well buttered pudding dish, 
then a layer of fine dry crumbs, a little finely minced onion, 
a dusting of pepper and salt. Repeat the layers until the 
dish is full, then add a cup of cream, a gill of melted butter, 
and a cup of sweet milk. Bake in a medium oven forty 
minutes or more until it is a good brown. 

Cod in Ramekins 

Take two pounds of cold boiled codfish, freed from all 
skin and bone and flaked; add to it one green pepper, one 
little piece of green celery, or leaves, twelve olives, stoned, 
all chopped fine; add also one cup of dry bread crumbs, 
the juice of an onion, a gill of melted butter and one of 
cream, and one beaten egg, a saltspoon each of pepper and 
salt, and a teaspoon of sugar; mix thoroughly together 
and fill buttered ramekins with the mixture. Bake and 
serve garnished with a spray of parsley. 

Escalloped Codfish 

Boil, bone, and flake two pounds of fresh codfish. Add a 
cup of bread crumbs, one finely grated onion, butter, 
pepper and salt, and a half cup of cream. Fill buttered 
ramekins with the mixture, bake a delicate brown; garnish 
with a spray of watercress and lay a finger roll beside the 
ramekin. 



FisK 1 1 1 

Mock Scallops 

From good-sized codfish steaks one inch thick cut small 
rounds the size of scallops. Dip them in egg, then in fine 
crumbs, and fry in deep hot fat a delicate brown. Drain on 
blotting paper and serve garnished with cress and sliced 
lemon. Serve in the sauce-boat a smooth, highly seasoned 
tomato sauce. 

Jellied Cod 

Take two pounds of cold boiled codfish, skin, bone, and 
flake it with a silver fork. Take one small can of tomatoes, 
add to it one finely chopped onion, chopped stalk of celery, 
tablespoon of Worcestershire sauce, a saltspoon of pepper, 
and a half teaspoon of salt, and let the mixture simmer for 
twenty minutes, then add a teaspoon of sugar and a pinch 
of bicarbonate of soda; set back from the fire and add a 
heaping tablespoon of gelatine powder, which has been 
dissolved in a little cold water. When all is thoroughly 
melted, strain carefully into the fish; when slightly cool add 
one tablespoon of mayonnaise sauce, one cup of whipped 
cream, and turn into small cold molds that have been lined 
with a coating of aspic jelly, then set away to chill. When 
turned out onto the service plates garnish each with sprays 
of parsley and chopped aspic. 

Flounder a I'ltalienne 

Select a large thick flounder and have it fileted. Dust the 
filets with salt and pepper ; then dip them into an egg which 
has been beaten with a tablespoon of hot melted butter 
and fry them in deep hot fat. Have ready a sauce, made 
by rubbing together two level tablespoons each of butter 
and flour; to this cream, add a half pint of boiling water 
and stir until the sauce boils. Add a teaspoon of onion 
juice, a teaspoon of kitchen bouquet, a half saltspoon of 
cayenne pepper, a half teaspoon of salt, and two tablespoons 
of finely chopped button mushrooms. Allow it to boil for 



112 FisK 

three minutes after the mushrooms have been added, stir- 
ring carefully. When done, turn the sauce into a hot dish 
and arrange the filets in it, garnishing the platter with 
small potato croquettes. 

Filet of Sole 

Filet the sole in the usual way, roll and pin the filets 
each with a wooden pick, dip in egg and fine crumbs, fry in 
hot lard, placing in frying basket, and drain carefully. Serve 
garnished with lemon and parsley and place the sauce in a 
small sauce-boat. 

Filet of Sole, Grape Sauce 

Prepare the filet of sole in the usual way, frying it a 
delicate brown, then garnishing it with parsley and lemon 
quarters. Grape sauce, which should be served hot in a 
small tureen, is made by taking two pounds of ripe Isabella 
grapes and squeezing them in the jelly bag, cold; put the 
juice in a saucepan and add a half cup of sugar, a half salt- 
spoon of red pepper, a little spice bag and a half lemon 
thinly sliced with the seeds removed. Boil gently for ten 
minutes; if it is then not thick enough, boil down for five 
minutes more, then strain into the tureen and serve. The 
sauce should be about the consistency of strained honey. 

Flounder a la Turque 

Skin, trim, wash, and dry one large flounder. On one 
side make a cut down the center from near head to near 
tail and raise the flesh from the bones. Make a stuffing 
with two tablespoons of butter, two teaspoons of Worcester- 
shire sauce, one teaspoon of chopped parsley, three table- 
spoons of bread crumbs, saltspoon of salt, half saltspoon of 
pepper, half a teaspoon of powdered herbs, grated rind and 
juice of half a lemon, half a beaten egg, and half a cup of 
picked shrimps. Mix thoroughly and insert under the filets 
of flounder, leaving the center open. Brush the flounder 



FisK 113 

over with the remainder of the egg, sprinkle it with 
brown bread crumbs, and bake for thirty minutes on a well 
buttered tin. Serve tartare sauce with this fish. 

Filet of Sole in Cases 

Put one teacup of finely chopped mushrooms into a 
frying pan, with two tablespoons of shalots and one table- 
spoon of parsley, also chopped fine; add a lump of butter 
and season with a saltspoon each of pepper and salt. Toss 
the ingredients over the fire until they are cooked, then set 
aside to cool. When cold, take the filets, mask one side of 
them with the above mixture, and roll them up, securing 
them with a piece of thread; then place them between 
two hot buttered plates and bake them. While they are 
baking, prepare a little white cream sauce. When done, 
put each filet into a small paper case, put a small broiled 
mushroom on top of each, then fill up the cases with the 
hot sauce, and serve. 

Stijffed or Rolled Flounder 

Have the flounders split and boned, and the heads and 
tails cut off. Prepare a stuffing with one cup of bread 
crumbs, one cup of cold boiled lobster cut very fine, one 
beaten egg, three tablespoons of melted butter, two 
tablespoons of tomato ketchup, seasoning, and a little 
cream to hold it together. Spread on the fish, and roll 
and tie with kitchen binder. Dust with a little pepper, 
salt, and flour; place the fish in a well buttered baking dish, 
basting every few minutes with melted butter, and when 
done serve hot, garnished with parsley, broiled potatoes, 
and lemon quarters. Serve a hot smooth tomato dressing 
in the tureen. 

Baked Halibut 

Have a halibut steak cut one and a half inches thick, 
wash and dry it carefully. Have a small roasting pan well 
buttered and sprinkled with finely minced onion, pepper 



114 Fish 

and salt, and lay in the fish. Sprinkle with the onion, 
a dusting of pepper and salt, a teaspoon of lemon juice, 
a gill of good stock, and the beaten yolk of an egg. 
Put generous lumps of butter over it and bake thirty min- 
utes. Serve with a rich tomato dressing. If liked, just 
before it is done a little bit of grated cheese may be sprinkled 
over the top. Garnish with parsley and hard-boiled egg 
rings and serve hot. 

Halibut au Gratin 

Take a pound and a half of cold boiled halibut, free 
from skin and bone, and flake. Add one small grated 
onion, a teaspoon of chopped parsley, a gill of melted 
butter, a half saltspoon of pepper, a saltspoon of salt, a 
tablespoon of Worcestershire sauce, one beaten egg, and 
two tablespoons of grated cheese. Mix all thoroughly 
with the fish and add three quarters of a cup of light cream 
or rich milk. Fill well buttered ramekins with the mixture, 
dusting a little of the cheese over the top of each, and bake. 
Garnish with a spray of watercress and dry toast fingers. 

Halibut Turbot 

Boil three pounds of halibut, remove skin and bone, and 
flake it carefully. Boil in a little water a bunch of parsley, 
one large onion, and a stalk of finely chopped celery, to 
extract their flavor; strain and thicken with two tablespoons 
of flour, creamed with half a cup of soft butter, add- 
ing slowly to it a pint of hot cream. Mix lightly with 
the fish and fill well buttered ramekins with the mixture, 
sprinkling a few bread crumbs over the top, with pepper, 
salt, and little bits of butter. Bake a delicate brown and 
garnish with cress. 

Deviled Halibut 

Boil two and a half pounds of halibut, tnen free it from 
skin, bone, and flake it. Have ready chopped fine one large 



FisK 115 

onion, six Spanish peppers (those canned in oil) , eight olives, 
and a stalk of celery. Add a cup of fine crumbs and add the 
mixture to the fish, with two tablespoons of chutney syrup, 
a tablespoon of Worcestershire sauce, a cup of tart apple 
sauce, a gill of melted butter, and the whites of two eggs 
stiffly beaten. Put into well buttered baking shells or 
ramekins and bake from twenty to forty minutes, covering 
them the first fifteen. 

Pineapple Halibut 

Prepare and broil sufficient halibut steak for the number 
to be served. Have ready a rich English brown sauce 
which has had added to it after it has been strained and 
thickened, a cup of fresh grated pineapple. Serve the fish 
on a hot platter, turn the sauce over it, and garnish with 
rice croquettes and fresh cress. 

Halibut Macaroni 

Flake two pounds of fresh boiled or cold left-over fish, re- 
moving all skin and bones. Boil one half pound of macaroni 
in salt water until tender, then cut it in small pieces. Mix 
the fish, macaroni, and three ounces of grated cheese, and 
put into ramekin dishes lined with thinly rolled puff paste. 
Put grated cheese and butter on top, brown in the oven and 
serve very hot. 

Baked Bluefish 

Have the bluefish cleaned and washed, leaving the head 
on for baking, which may be filled with dressing. Make any 
good, savory stuffing, and when filled sew up the fish and, 
after placing in a well buttered baking pan, brush over the 
surface with a little thin sugar syrup so that a thin sprin- 
kling of bread crumbs will adhere to it; add a dusting of 
pepper and salt, and while baking baste with white wine in 



ii6 FisK 

which there is a little melted butter, juice of half a lemon, 
two cloves, and one small bayleaf. 

Blue fish is in season from early spring to late fall. 

Broiled Bluefish 

This recipe will answer for the broiling of all kinds of 
fish, large or small. 

Scale and rinse the fish before splitting it down the 
belly. Dust it with pepper and salt, brush the flesh side of 
the fish with butter; grease the gridiron (or broiler) with a 
greased cloth or bit of suet, and lay the fish upon it. If 
the fish is broiled under gas place the flesh side up ; if broiled 
over coals place the flesh side down, turning to broil the 
skin side last. It will take from twenty to thirty minutes 
to broil the fish properly over coals; perhaps a little longer 
under gas. 

Fried Smelts 

Select fresh, green smelts and after rinsing them, make 
a slight opening at the gills with a sharp knife or pair of 
scissors, then draw the smelt through the thumb and 
fingers to remove the intestines; wash, dry, dust with a 
little pepper and salt, and roll in very fine, dry bread 
crumbs, after dipping them in egg. Place in a wire frying 
basket, fry a delicate brown in deep fat; when done, remove, 
drain, serve in a napkin, and garnish with lemon quarters 
and cress. Serve tartare sauce in the sauce-boat. In 
season from fall to early spring. 

Fried Eels 

To prepare eels for frying or stewing skin them, clean, 
and cut off the heads, then cut them into pieces two inches 
long. If they are to be fried dip them in egg and then in fine 
crumbs, fry in deep fat until a delicate brown, serve gar- 
nished with fresh cress. If they are to be stewed cover the 
pieces with boiling water to which is added the juice of a 



FisK 117 

lemon and the juice of an onion; simmer ten minutes. 
Melt a tablespoon of butter in a saucepan and mix with it 
two tablespoons of flour ; when smooth add slowly a cup of 
the water in which the eels have been boiling, then stir 
the gravy in with the eels. Cover and stew for twenty- 
five minutes. Season to taste and serve turned over slices 
of toast, garnished with parsley. In season from spring to 
fall. Smoked eels broiled or baked are a favorite Southern 
breakfast dish. 

Creamed Mackerel 

Soak the salt mackerel for twelve hours, changing the 
water four times. Then lay it in a shallow stewpan, cover 
with milk, and simmer for twenty minutes. Remove the 
fish carefully and place it on a hot dish; thicken the 
milk with butter and flour rubbed to a cream, add a quarter 
saltspoon of salt, a teaspoon of chopped tarragon leaves, 
and turn the sauce over the mackerel. In season in winter. 

Broiled Mackerel Southern Style 

Soak the salt mackerel for forty-eight hours, changing the 
water three times. Wipe the fish dry, lay it on a greased 
gridiron and broil. When it is done smear it with butter, 
add a slight sprinkling of pepper; dish on a hot plate and 
garnish with lemon quarters and cress. 

Fresh mackerel may be served broiled, baked, or in any 
of the ways in which halibut is served. In season from 
early spring to fall. 

Pan Fish 

All small fish may be purchased from the fish monger who 
will clean and prepare them for frying. Each season gives 
enough variety of these small fish to make them a stand- 
ard breakfast dish. They may also be stewed; see perch 
recipe. 



ii8 risK 

Baked Finaan Haddie 

Select a short, thick finnan haddie, soak in cold water 
for ten minutes, dry with a soft cloth, lay in a buttered 
baking pan, spread generously with butter on the flesh side, 
dust very sparingly with pepper, and pour over a small cup 
of cream. Bake until tender (about half an hour), remove 
carefully, and serve. 

Finnan Haddie k la King 

Boil the fish until it is done, about twenty mmutes, then 
flake it free from skin and bone with a silver fork. Put 
into the chafing dish a large tablespoon of butter with six 
button mushrooms halved, a chopped red pepper, and a 
teaspoon of chopped chives; when these have sauted for 
five minutes add the fish, then a gill of cream in which a yolk 
of an egg has been stirred, and a half gill of sherry. Blend 
well together and serve on toast slices, garnished with egg 
rings and olive curls. 

Pineapple Pike 

Skin, bone, and filet a good sized pike; dust with pepper 
and salt, and dip in a little salt pork fat that has been fried 
out from two slices of salt pork, and in which the juice of 
an onion has been squeezed. Drain off and broil the 
fish until it is a delicate brown. Have ready a brown sauce 
made of a half pound of diced top round steak and a half 
pound of lean pork ; put on to boil in a pint of water. When 
cooked down, strain and add a cup of finely chopped fresh 
pineapple, six water chestnuts cut fine, and a tablespoon of 
cut bamboo sprouts. Let all simmer gently, then thicken 
with a little browned flour. Turn over the fish and garnish 
with spoonfuls of crisply fried Chinese egg noodles. 

Fried Frogs' Legs 

Select as many frogs' legs as are needed to allow a pair to 
a portion, two pair if the legs are small. Blanche them for 



FisK 119 

five minutes in boiling water, drain, wipe dry, dust with 
flour, and fry in a frying basket plunged into hot fat. 
Serve piled 'in a napkin, with tartare sauce in the sauce- 
boat. In season in early spring, summer, and fall. 

Creamed Frogs' Legs 

Blanche the frogs' legs the same as for frying, then par- 
boil them gently for ten minutes. Make and have ready a 
good cream sauce, not too thick, but well seasoned; drain 
the legs and put them into the sauce; add a teaspoon of 
chopped tarragon leaves, and serve the frogs' legs in a hol- 
lowed loaf of bread garnished with parsley and lemon 
quarters. The same number of frogs are used in this 
recipe as in the preceding one, allowing a pair to a portion. 

Fish Forcemeat 

Put through the meat chopper about two pounds of raw 
haddock, or fresh codfish, then put it into a bowl and rub 
with the potato mashed until very smooth. Add a half 
teaspoon of salt, a half cup of cream, two tablespoons of 
melted butter, a saltspoon of pepper, a slight grating of 
nutmeg, a teaspoon of chopped tarragon leaves, a grated 
onion, and one beaten egg. Add, also, one tablespoon of 
cornstarch which may be moistened with a little of the 
cream. Turn all the ingredients, after they are mixed, into 
a well buttered pudding mold and bake a half hour. Serve 
hot, with a good smooth tomato sauce, drawn butter, or 
any other sauce liked. 

Pompano Stuffed with Lobster 

Select a fresh pompano, remove the head and tail. Split 
as for broiling and remove the bone. Boil a lobster weigh- 
ing about a pound and a half. Remove meat and save all of 
the coral. Put the meat through a meat chopper, mix 
it with a small cup of cream sauce. Season with a teaspoon 
of salt and a saltspoon of paprika. Lastly, stir in a table- 



120 FisH 

spoon of sherry, and mix thoroughly. Lay the split 
pompano skin side down, and spread thickly with the 
lobster forcemeat. Garnish the fish with truffles cut in 
fancy shapes and hard-boiled eggs, whites and yolks chopped 
separately, and the coral of the lobster cut in strips. Pour 
a little salted water in the pan, cover the fish with buttered 
paper, and steam in hot oven for half an hour. When done 
place on a hot dish on a bed of shredded lettuce. Put a 
few shrimps around the bed on the lettuce, and cover with 
shrimp sauce. 

Pompano is in season from mid-winter to early summer. 

Weakfish Pudding 

Boil a three-pound weakfish for twenty minutes. When 
done skin, bone, and flake the fish. Add to the flaked meat 
three quarters of a cup of dry bread crumbs, one large 
grated onion, a tablespoon of chutney syrup, a saltspoon of 
pepper, a teaspoon of salt, two beaten eggs, a gill of melted 
butter; put the mixture into a buttered pudding mold, 
cover, set in boiling water, and boil an hour and a half, 
being sure that no water boils into the mold. Unmold the 
pudding on a hot platter and have ready a pint of rich 
drawn butter to turn over it. In season all summer. 

Bombay (Weakfish) Toast 

Take a cup and a half of left-over boiled or baked weak- 
fish and flake it. Moisten it with a smooth, plain tomato 
sauce, or a drawn butter sauce, or a brown gravy. Heat it 
hot and turn over toast slices. This makes a nice break- 
fast or luncheon dish. 

Tuna Fish Pasties 

Take one can of tuna fish, drain and flake it, then add 
one small grated onion, a half cup of chopped celer\^ and 
one finely chopped green pepper. Turn over the fish one 



FisK 121 

cup of cream sauce and mix all well together. Line large 
ramekins with good pastry and fill them with the mixture, 
adding a teaspoon of melted butter to each, and put a 
lattice of the crust over the top. Bake until the pastry 
is done and set away to cool. 

Tuna Fish Croquettes 

Take one small can of tuna fish, drain and flake it with a 
silver fork ; add one very finely minced onion, three quarters 
of a cup of fine dried bread cnmibs, saltspoon of pepper, 
half teaspoon of salt, one beaten egg, teaspoon of Wor- 
cestershire sauce, small teaspoon of sugar, and a tablespoon 
of melted butter. Mix well and form the mixture into small 
croquettes. Dip each in egg and fine crumbs and fry in 
hot fat a delicate brown. Drain and serve on a hot platter 
garnished with parsley and peas carefully drained. 

Escalloped Tuna Fish 

Take a small can of tuna fish, drain and flake. Add a 
half cup of celery, six olives, one pepper, and two sprays 
of watercress, all finely chopped. A half cup of bread 
crumbs, a gill of melted butter, a half saltspoon of pepper, 
a half teaspoon of salt, juice of an onion, a tablespoon of 
chutney syrup, and two beaten eggs. Fill well buttered 
ramekins with the mixture and sprinkle a little grated cheese 
over the top and bake. 

Tuna Loaf 

Beat one egg until light and add one cup of bread crumbs, 
one cup of flaked Tuna, one cup of sweet milk, a saltspoon 
of salt, a half saltspoon of pepper, teaspoon of lemon juice, 
and a half teaspoon of onion juice. Mix well, press the 
mixture into a buttered loaf pan and bake twenty-five 
minutes. Garnish with hard-boiled eggs and serve with 
drawn butter. 



122 FisH 

Make the drawn butter by melting one fourth cup of 
butter and adding one tablespoon of flour. Add gradually 
one cup of hot water, salt and pepper, and one tablespoon 
of lemon juice, and bring to a boil. 

Tuna Baked in Peppers 

Remove the seeds and ribs from six sweet green peppers, 
and soak them in cold, salted water. Beat four eggs and 
add two cups of flaked Tuna, one cup of bread crumbs, 
one cup of sweet milk, level teaspoon of salt, half saltspoon 
of pepper, and a half teaspoon of lemon juice. Pack the 
Tuna mixture into the pepper shells and sprinkle with bread 
crumbs and dot with butter. Bake until the peppers are 
done and the crumbs nicely browned. If the peppers 
are quite large, they may be cut in halves lengthwise and 
filled with the mixture. Serve hot. 

Spanish Mackerel 

Spanish mackerel, though its season is short, is a very 
popular fish; it is delicious broiled, it is good baked if 
plenty of butter is used with it, and is acceptable boiled. 
In season in spring. 

Bass, deep-sea trout, ling, carp, haddock, and kingfish are 
all acceptable in their seasons, and are cooked after the 
recipes given for boiling, broiling, and baking. 

Stewed Perch 

Clean and prepare the perch in the usual way, then lay 
them in a stewpan with a pint of stock and half a pint of 
sherry, a bud of garlic, bay leaf, some sweet herbs, two 
cloves, a saltspoon of salt, and a half saltspoon of pepper. 
Stew until done; then take out the fish, strain and thicken 
the gravy, adding a dash of nutmeg and a teaspoon of 
anchovv sauce. Turn over the fish and serve. 



FisH 123 

WAYS OF SERVING COLD FISH 

Tuna Fish Mignon 

Drain one medium-sized can of tuna fish and flake it with 
a silver fork. Add to it a gill of melted butter, half salt- 
spoon of pepper, saltspoon of salt, a tablespoon of chut- 
ney syrup, a tablespoon of chopped parsley, a gill of 
cream, and three tablespoons of bread crimibs that have 
been fried in butter and carefully drained. Chop and add 
two cold boiled eggs and the stiffly beaten white of one 
egg; mix all together and fill well buttered ramekins with the 
mixture, grating a little English cheese over the top of each. 
Bake a delicate brown. These may be served hot or cold ; 
garnish each with a slice of delicately toasted bacon. 

Curried Bluefish 

Boil a three-pound bluefish. When done and cold free it 
from all skin and bone and flake it. Have ready a cup and a 
half of rich tomato curry made of one can of tomatoes, a bay 
leaf, a tablespoon of butter, a saltspoon each of pepper and 
salt, sliced onion, stalk of celery, and a little finely chopped 
ham, adding a half teaspoon of curry powder. After it has 
cooked half an hour, strain, thicken slightly, and add the 
fish, with one cup of fine, dry bread crumbs, a little chopped 
parsley, and six chopped truffles. Fill buttered ramekins 
with the mixture, dust the top of each with a little grated 
English cheese, and bake. When done set aside to cool, but 
do not chill. 

Molded Snapper 

Flake two pounds of cold boiled red snapper and add a 
cup of bread crumbs, a saltspoon each of pepper and salt, 
half a cup of melted butter, one beaten egg in a gill of cream, 
and three tablespoons of grated cheese. Mix the ingredients 
thoroughly, adding a half teaspoon of hot Southern sauce. 



124 FisH 

Put the mixture in a well buttered baking mold, bake to a 
delicate brown, and when cool set it in the icebox to chill. 
Turn on to a platter and garnish the edge of the mold with 
watercress and as many bunches containing three or four 
stalks of cold boiled asparagus caught with green pepper 
rings as there are portions to be served, the asparagus having 
been allowed to marinate in French dressing for twenty 
minutes. Serve mayonnaise over each portion of the 
mold, laying the bunch of asparagus at one side of the 
plate. 

Salmon Vernon 

Boil and cool fresh salmon filets, place on lettuce leaves, 
and put in a cool place. Take fresh, crisp cucumbers, 
pare them and with a thin knife, after cutting them in half, 
cut them around thinly as if paring an apple, until freed 
from the seeds, then roll tightly and slice down very thin, 
mixing the thin rings up lightly like noodles; cover them 
thickly with salt and let them stand thus for twenty minutes. 
Rinse off the salt, dry them in a soft cloth, and sprinkle 
them over the filets. Garnish each dish with a little strip 
of red pepper and serve with tartare sauce. 

Tile in Cucumber Jelly 

Pake two pounds of freshly boiled tile, drain and flake 
it. When cold place it in a wet jelly mold, first a layer of the 
fish, then a thin layer of vegetable macedoine, continuing 
in this manner until the mold is three quarters full. Next 
take a heaping tablespoon and a half of powdered gelatine, 
a half cup of water, four tablespoons of vinegar, a half 
teaspoon of salt, a teaspoon of onion juice, and four good- 
sized cucumbers that have been grated. Stir all over a 
gentle heat until thoroughly mixed. If the mixture is a 
little thick, add a little French dressing, use a few drops of 
green vegetable coloring, and turn all into the mold over the 
fish and set away to chill and harden. When ready for 



FisK 125 

use turn the molded fish out on green lettuce leaves and 
heap with mayonnaise. 

Snapper in Aspic 

Prepare and boil a three-pound red snapper. Carefully 
drain it and when cool lay it in a mold which has been wet 
in cold water and garnish with slices of cold hard-boiled 
egg and half cucumbers hollowed and filled with caviar and 
laid around the edge of the mold with little heaps of cold 
boiled shrimps between them. Turn over all a good aspic 
jelly colored a delicate green with Breton coloring. When 
thoroughly set and chilled and ready to serve place a baking 
sheet over the mold, turn the aspic on it, Ifave the platter 
ready and turn the jellied fish back on it. Garnish with 
sprays of cress drawn through thin slices of lemon. In 
serving put a tablespoon of mayonnaise on each portion. 

Pickled Salmon 

Boil three pounds of salmon and when cold lay it in a 
crock with a half ounce of whole spice, a teaspoon of 
salt, a saltspoon of cayenne pepper, two bay leaves, a cup 
of vinegar, and a cup of the water the fish was boiled in. 
Let stand twelve hours; then it is ready for use. 

Molded Shad 

Choose a fine shad with roe. Clean the fish thoroughly, 
' then draw together, fastening the body and the head with a 
linen thread. Place at the bottom of a fish kettle two 
carrots diced, four cloves, two thinly sliced onions, a bud of 
garlic, two bay leaves, a teaspoon of salt, a saltspoon of 
pepper; then lay the shad on top and cover with a quart of 
claret. Put in a frying pan a glass of olive oil and when hot 
throw in six cloves of garlic, a saltspoon of rosemary, and 
fry for five minutes. Strain this oil with a quarter cup 
of tarragon vinegar into the shad broth. Now place the fish 



126 FisK 

kettle over the fire and when it begins to boil draw it to one 
side and let it simmer for half an hour. When cooked put 
in six leaves of good gelatine and replace the cover, and 
allow it to stand and cool. Serve on a long fish plate with 
the following vinaigrette : 

A tablespoon of chopped chervil, a tablespoon of chopped 
capers, a teaspoon of mixed mustard, two tablespoons of 
Worcestershire sauce, a saltspoon of pepper and a half 
teaspoon of salt, two tablespoons of olive oil and a quarter 
of a cup of red vinegar, and three quarters of a cup of the 
fish broth. If desired the fish broth may be strained, cooled, 
and served in bouillon cups with finger rolls, as it is de- 
liciously flavored. 

A Good Cold Fish Dish 

A very good cold dish is pickled salmon. It is made by 
boiling the salmon, then placing it in a deep crock with a 
tight cover. Take a cup of water in which it was boiled 
and a cupful of vinegar, half ounce of pepper, half ounce of 
allspice, one teaspoon of salt, two bay leaves, two cloves; 
boil the mixture for ten minutes, then let cool and pour 
over the salmon, covering tightly for twelve hours. Drain 
and serve the fish on a bed of watercress, garnished with 
thin slices of lemon and hard-boiled egg cut in fancy shapes. 

Cold Filet of Bass Parisienne 

Select one and a half pounds of fresh sea bass, have it 
fileted and cook the filets in a broth made of half a cup of 
vinegar, pepper, salt, and enough water to cover them. 
When done remove them carefully and when cold, cover an 
oblong dish with washed and dried lettuce leaves; lay the 
filets on and garnish them with thinly sliced cucumbers and 
tomatoes and dust all with a little paprika. Make a dress- 
ing with a teaspoon of chopped chives, a teaspoon of 
chopped tarragon leaves, two shalots, a saltspoon each 
of salt and pepper, a half cup of heavy French dressing, 



FisK 127 

and enough mayonnaise to bind the sauce. Have this 
sauce chilled and pour it over the filets just before they are 
served. 

Cold Jellied Eels 

Skin and cut the eels into short pieces; put them into a 
pint of white wine with sliced onions, carrots, mushrooms, 
a few peas, and one diced potato. Season to taste and stew 
until the eels are done; remove from the fire, add a few 
thin slices of lemon and a teaspoon of minced parsley. 
Turn into an oblong mold and set away to cool and jell; 
when ready to serve turn onto a platter and garnish with 
lemon and parsley. 

Goosefish 

The people of England and Germany are most apprecia- 
tive users of a fish almost unknown to the American table. 
This is the goosefish, monkfish, anglerfish, or devilfish, the 
last name being best known, perhaps, in America. It is 
said on the best authority that the steaks taken from this 
fish contain as much flesh building material, pound for 
pound, as sirloin steak. The fish weighs in the neighbor- 
hood of twenty-five pounds and is cut up for market like 
cod, haddock, and other big fish. 

Grayfish 

Grayfish is the nom de plume under which the dogfish is 
bidding for favor. After rigorous and costly experimen- 
tation, the U. S. Bureau of Fisheries recommend it as one 
of the cheapest and most delicious of canned fishes. The 
fish has a ribless backbone, a fact which will endear it to 
most housewives ; it is packed in cans in a compressed piece, 
paper wrapped, the light and dark meat being as distinct 
as that of the salmon. 



SHELL FISH— LOBSTERS 
The Choosing and Preparing of Lobster 

Choosing lobsters is quite as much of a problem as choos- 
ing fresh fish, but is found more simple than selecting fish, 
for the lobster at his best, is decidedly lively and on the 
defensive as much as his weighty body out of water will 
allow him to be. Whereas the fish is a passive subject at 
best. A lobster from nine to ten and a half inches long, is 
the smallest that may be purchased, and will probably 
weigh from a pound and a quarter, to a pound and a half. 
Anything smaller comes under the head of Chicken Lobster. 
A good way of testing a lobster is by comparing its weight 
to its size. For example, if a lobster ten and a half inches 
long only weighs between a pound and a quarter and a 
pound and a half, one may know that it has lately passed 
through the period of shedding, and for that reason is soft- 
shelled and light of weight. If, on the other hand, his 
weight is from a pound and a half to two and a half, he will 
be found in prime condition for a good meal. 

Lobsters up to a weight of three pounds make the best 
food. After three pounds they are not so apt to be tender. 

A good lively lobster will keep in a cold package, packed 
in sea weed, for many days. When lobster is designed for 
boiling, or to be used in any one of the dishes requiring the 
meat of cooked lobster, have a pot full of water boiling 
hard and plunge the lobster head first into this. Cover 
tightly and boil twenty minutes to half an hour, according 
to the size. If he is intended for use, almost immediately, 
take him from the boiling water and plunge him into ice 

128 



SHell FisH 129 

water. Let him stay there until thoroughly cold. This 
makes the meat firm. Ten to fifteen minutes being suffi- 
cient. He is then ready to open. If the lobster is to be 
broiled, have the fire in perfect condition, a gas oven is 
most universally used, and because of its construction, is 
the most convenient. Live coals are in order where the old- 
fashioned kitchen stove is still in vogue, and for camp 
purposes, charcoal will answer the purpose nicely. The 
lobster intended for broiling should be laid on a heavy 
board and split straight down the middle with a sharp 
carving knife or cleaver. This is difficult in the home 
kitchen, but the nearby butcher will always split them for 
you and they may be returned immediately to the hot 
broiler. 

If one is buying boiled lobsters, a safe way to tell whether 
they were in good condition when boiled, is to straighten 
out the tail. If this returns immediately to its curled posi- 
tion, the lobster was in good condition when boiled. If it 
remains limp, it has probably been out of the water some 
time. This is, however, not an infallible rule, and one 
should not condemn a fish dealer or butcher until they 
have examined the meat of the lobster, and if it is firm 
the lobster is in good condition and safe for food. 

From July until September is the general shedding 
time, when the lobsters change shell, then they are apt to 
be very heavy, but when opened it will be found it is the 
new shell that makes them so, and that they are lean and 
not very good eating. 

A few simple directions for opening the boiled lobster 
may give the housewife courage to serve the dainty oftener 
in the home. 

When the lobster is ready to open have the platter 
ready, lined with large green lettuce leaves, break off the 
small claws and garnish the edge of the dish with them, 
then break off the large claws, crack them, and remove the 
meat. Next take the lobster by the back of the body in 
the right hand, the tail in the left hand, and insert two 
9 



130 SKell FisK 

fingers under the body shell at the base of the tail, then 
break through the soft shell and separate the tail from the 
body. 

Lay the tail on its back on the board and with a sharp 
knife cut through the soft rib-like structure and, flattening 
the points at each side, crack the shell and by putting two 
fingers under the meat it may be easily drawn forth whole, 
open it right down the middle and remove the single 
intestine which runs down the entire length of the tail. 

Next take the body in the right hand and place the 
thumb of the left hand under the shell and pull out the 
body, the soft green jelly-like substance in the center is 
called the "fat" and is not only edible but is considered a 
great delicacy. The contents of the head or "lady in the 
chair, " as it is called, is not edible, and the "dead men" or 
gills at either side of the body are not edible. 

Put the two thumbs in the center of the body when the 
gills are removed and separate it into two pieces and pick 
the meat carefully from the cells which will be readil}^ 
distinguished. Now if the shells are to be used in garnish- 
ing, clean them, carefully rinse in warm water, then with a 
soft cloth wipe them over with olive oil, then put in a cool 
place until needed. 

The lobster should be boiled in the morning for use 
at dinner and kept in a very cold place, but not in direct 
contact with the ice, and it is better not to remove the 
meat from the shell until just before preparing it in any 
desired way. 

Lobster and Sweetbread en Casserole 

Boil two lobsters and remove the meat, set aside the two 
tails and two large claws. All the rest of the meat mince 
fine, add to it a half teaspoon of pepper, a half teaspoon 
of salt, a grated onion, a tablespoon of chopped celery, 
a teaspoon of chopped parsley, a half cup of fine crumbs, 
one beaten egg, two tablespoons of melted butter, and mix 



SKell risK 131 

well together. Have ready two cold parboiled sweet- 
breads, split them, but not entirely apart, and stuff them 
with the mixture, butter the casserole and lay the sweet- 
breads in the center, the lobster tails at either side with the 
claws, sprinkle with pepper and salt, generous lumps of 
butter, and, last of all, turn in a half pint of cream, and a gill 
of chutney syrup. Cook in medium oven one hour to an 
hour and a half. 

Lobster a la Newburg 

Select two lobsters weighing about two pounds each. 
Use lump of butter as big as two eggs. While the butter 
is melting, separate four eggs. Beat the yolks and mix 
with a pint of sweet cream. Stir the cream and eggs well 
together. Pour into the melted butter, then stir in the 
lobster, which has been taken from the shell and cut into 
small pieces. Allow to simmer until the eggs are cooked. 
When ready to serve pour in two wineglasses of sherry, or 
madeira. This will serve six people. 

Lobster Chops 

For the lobster chops, to two cups of cold boiled lobster, 
chopped fine, add saltspoon of salt, half saltspoon of pepper 
and a Httle chopped parsley. Boil one cup of cream mixed 
with three (level) tablespoons of flour, one tablespoon of 
butter, and mix with lobster. When cool, form into chops, 
roll in cracker dust, fry in hot lard, and insert a claw to 
carry out the effect. Garnish with sliced lemon and parsley, 
put sauce tartare in sauce-boat, and serve the chops on a 
doily. 

Buttered Lobster 

Beat up the yolks of two eggs with a tablespoon of butter; 
when it forms a smooth cream add half a gill of milk or 
cream, a saltspoon of freshly ground black pepper, and a 



132 SHell FisK 

half saltspoon of coralline pepper. Put it into the double 
pan with the meat of a lobster, cut up not too small, and let 
it heat in this for ten minutes, without on any account 
allowing it to boil. Serve on toast. 

Lobster and Codfish Tongues en Casserole 

Meat of two boiled lobsters cut small. Codfish tongues 
boiled and sliced, put in a well buttered casserole with a 
gill of cream, a gill of melted butter, a tablespoon of 
powdered sweet herbs, and a teaspoon of Worcestershire 
sauce. Dice three white potatoes and bake all in the 
casserole one hour. 

Lobster Tarts 

Line as many tartlet pans as there are to be portions 
served with a good pie crust. Take the meat of one large 
boiled lobster and cut it fine. Add to it one cup of chopped 
button mushrooms, a chopped red pepper, and three 
chopped truffles that have been sauted in butter. Add a 
half cup of dry bread crumbs, a gill of melted butter, a gill of 
cream, and one boiled egg chopped. Season with a dessert- 
spoon of Worcestershire sauce, the same amount of chutney 
syrup, a saltspoon of white pepper, and a teaspoon of salt. 
Fill the pans with the mixture ; dust the top of each with a 
little grated American cheese, and bake until the crust is 
done in the oven. A large lobster, weighing three and a 
half to four pounds, and this mixture will be enough to serve 
eight people. 

Scalloped Lobster 

To the meat of two cold boiled lobsters, add a half cup 
grated old English sharp cheese, three quarters of a cup 
of cracker crumbs, a saltspoon of pepper, half a teaspoon of 
salt, two cups of sweet heavy cream, and one tablespoon 
of butter. Before greasing the baking dish rub lightly with 



Shell FisK 133 

a bud of garlic, then butter, then fill in the mixture, adding 
the cream last. Bake a delicate brown in a moderate 
oven and serve as an entree. Dry toast fingers or small 
rolls should be served with the lobster. 

Lobster Cardinal 

Remove the boiled lobster from the shell, cut in pieces, 
mix with one and a half cups of shrimp sauce. This is 
a light cream sauce with a dozen shredded shrimp in it and 
two tablespoons of tomato ketchup added to color it. Put 
the lobster back in the shell, sprinkle thickly with grated 
cheese, place under the broiler until brown, and serve with 
hot finger rolls. 

Lobster Provengale 

Have the lobster split as for broiling, remove the meat, 
and cut in pieces. Saute in olive oil to which has been 
added a grated onion, two finely minced shalots, and a half 
bud of garlic, a teaspoon of Worcestershire sauce, a 
few drops of kitchen bouquet, two tablespoons of sherry, 
and a tablespoon of tomato sauce. Do not add the 
sherry until the lobster is all cooked, then let all boil up 
together once. This may be served in patty shells, rame- 
kins, or in a border of rice. 

Lobster Creole 

Take the meat of one heavy cold boiled lobster and cut 
it fine. Add to it a small cup of dry crumbs, a tablespoon 
of chutney syrup, a saltspoon each of pepper and salt, a 
gill of melted butter, and one cup of thin cream sauce. 
Fill buttered ramekins with the mixture, dusting the top 
of each with a little grated cheese. Bake fifteen minutes. 

Lobster Creole 

Boil one lobster, cut the meat in small pieces, and steep 
it in melted butter with one grated onion, two dozen button 



134 Shell FisH 

mushrooms chopped with one fresh green pepper, and one 
large fresh tomato; season and serve with rice timbales 
garnished with watercress. 

To Broil a Lobster 

With sharp knife and mallet, split in two down back, 
following line which runs down middle of shell; remove 
stomach and intestine; place the two pieces on a broiler 
with shell part downwards, and broil over a moderate 
fire for half an hour or longer. When half cooked, moisten 
well with butter; when thoroughly cooked spread butter 
over, and sprinkle with pepper, salt, and lemon juice. Crack 
claws before serving. It is a good idea to have the butcher 
split and clean the lobster. 

CRABS 

Crabs are in season all summer and, if fresh and lively, 
may be boiled and served as a foundation of many good 
dishes. The season for the soft-shell crabs is short, but 
they are considered a delicacy, and are favorites while 
they last. 

To Cook Hard-Shell Crabs 

Hard crabs are cooked by plunging them into boiling 
water, and boiling them twenty minutes if they are good 
sized. When they are cold remove the claws, raise the 
apron with the thumb nail, then insert the thumb at the 
back of the shell and remove the body. Pull away the 
"dead men" and remove the white meat. Avoid the eyes 
and the gall bag back of them. When all meat is removed 
place in the ice-box to cool. They are then ready to use 
in any way liked best. 

Stuffed Crabs 

Put half a pound of crab meat in a saucepan with a 
teaspoon of butter, season well with pepper and salt, 



Shell FisK 135 

add a pinch of chopped parsley, and thicken with cream 
sauce. Stir lightly to avoid breaking the meat. Stuff a 
large crab shell which has been thoroughly cleaned, cover 
with bread crumbs and a little melted butter, and brown in 
a quick oven or under a gas broiler. 

Crab Meat Puffs 

Let a cup and a half of flaked crab meat simmer in a cup 
of sauce a la Newburg, have ready puff paste squares, 
tuck a tablespoon of mixture into a square, turning up the 
points like an apple dumpling, grate a little Parmesan cheese 
over the top, and bake in the oven a delicate brown. 

Crab Tartlets 

Line tartlet pans with good pie crust, take one pint of 
fresh, carefully picked-out crab meat, and add to it three 
tablespoons of bread crumbs that have been fried in butter 
and drained, three tablespoons of very finely chopped 
celery, a half saltspoon of pepper, a saltspoon of salt, and one 
cup of rich cream sauce not made too thick. Fill the tarts 
and put on little upper crusts, cut to let the gas and steam 
escape, and bake them a delicate brown. These are delicious 
cold and are very dainty for the Sunday night supper. 

Crab Meat in Ramekins 

Take two cups of crab meat, one small cup of fine, dry 
bread crumbs, one beaten egg, saltspoon each of pepper and 
salt, a gill of melted butter, a cup of sweet cream, and a table- 
spoon of chutney syrup. Mix the ingredients well together 
and fill buttered ramekins or scallop shells with it. Sprinkle 
the top of each with grated cheese and bake a delicate brown. 

Deviled Crabs 

Boil twelve crabs and when cold remove the meat. Rub 
together two tablespoons of flour and one of butter, when 
smooth thicken a half pint of milk and when it reaches 



136 SKell FisK 

boiling point remove it from the fire. Add to it a half 
teaspoon of paprika, a level teaspoon of salt, a saltspoon of 
white pepper, a tablespoon of chopped tarragon leaves; 
mash the yolks of four hard-boiled eggs together and work 
into the sauce. Add the crab meat, mixing all thoroughly. 
Add a half cup of soft bread crumbs, a tablespoon of chutney 
syrup, mix all together, and fill the empty crab shells with 
the mixtures, dotting the top of each with a little butter 
and dusting with a little grated cheese. These crabs may 
be put into a frying basket and plunged into hot fat for two 
minutes, but they are nicer if baked in the oven for fifteen 
minutes, or until they are a delicate brown on top. 

Crab Gumbo 

Take a half of a fresh tender chicken, cut into small 
pieces, put into a saucepan with a large spoon of lard and 
one of flour, watch carefully and brown; turn over it a 
pint of water and let it cook for an hour and a half. Pick 
the meat from one dozen boiled crabs, warm the meat with 
a spoonful of butter in another pan, then pour it over the 
chicken, adding a few small pieces of fried ham. Season 
to taste and serve hot with dry boiled rice. 

Crab Meat au Gratin 

Add to the crab meat of a dozen crabs three quarters of 
a cup of fine dry bread crumbs, a gill of melted butter, an 
egg beaten in a half cup of milk, half a cup of cream, half 
saltspoon of pepper, a saltspoon of salt, and a tablespoon of 
grated English cheese. Fill well buttered ramekins with 
the mixture, sprinkling a little more cheese and a dash of 
paprika on top of each, bake a delicate brown, and serve 
garnished with cress and with hot finger rolls. 

Soft-Shell Crabs 

To prepare the soft-shell crab take it in two fingers 
and on the under side insert the thumb nail under the 



SKell FisK 137 

point of the apron, open and pull it off. Rinse the crabs 
in cold water, dip them into beaten egg, roll in cracker 
crumbs, dust lightly with pepper and salt, and plunge them 
in boiling fat. Cover and cook about ten minutes. When 
done drain them on brown paper, lay them on toast sippets 
on a hot platter, garnishing with parsley and lemon quarters- 
Serve tartare sauce with the crabs. 

Soft-Shell Crabs Italian Way 

Take six large soft-shell crabs, clean and rinse them, and 
lay them in one pint of milk. Add three beaten eggs and 
allow them to remain until they absorb the liquid. Lift 
them out, roll in fine crumbs, and fry as usual. 

A comparatively newcomer to our fish markets is the 
big English hard shelled crab whose weight is greater than 
a large lobster and who yields sufficient meat for a salad 
which plentifully supplies four portions. The meat is a 
trifle stronger in flavor than our smaller domestic crabs, 
the only other crab meat which approaches it is that of the 
crab from the Pacific coast which now quite regularly ap- 
pears in our markets and is but a bit smaller than his 
English cousin. 

SHRIMP AND CRAWFISH 

These are usually sold boiled and are capable of being 
made into any of the dishes wherein lobster or crabs figure. 
The crawfish appears oftener in the garnishes used for 
various fish dishes, than in dishes made of itself. 

Creamed Shrimp 

Make a rich cream sauce and add to it a pint of pickled 
cold boiled shrimp, broken in halves. Before using the 
shrimp let them stand one hour in the juice of half a lemon, 
juice of one onion, a wineglass of sherry, a saltspoon of 
pepper, and the same quantity of salt. When ready let 
them drain for ten minutes, then add them to the cream 
sauce. Serve them on toast squares that have been 



138 SKell FisH 

sprinkled with grated cheese, pepper and salt, and heated 
hot in the oven. 

Scalloped Shrimp 

Take two cups of freshly boiled shrimp and break 
them into small pieces; make a highly seasoned cream 
sauce; add a tablespoon of cracker dust to the shrimp 
and put them into the cream. Fill buttered ramekins or 
baking shells with the mixture and bake till a delicate 
brown. Serve garnished with a slice of crisp bacon and a 
spray of watercress. 

Shrimp Tarts 

Line separate tart pans with good pie crust and crimp 
the edges. Shell and break in pieces a quart of freshly 
boiled shrimp. Make a good rich cream sauce and put in 
the shrimp, season well and fill the tarts, dusting the top 
of each with a few fine crumbs, grated cheese, a dusting of 
pepper and salt. Put in the oven, and by the time the 
crust is done the filling will be brown on top. 

Spanish Fricasseed Shrimp 

Fry in butter one chopped onion, and three chopped 
tomatoes; when a delicate brown add one tablespoon of 
flour mixed smooth in a half a cup of water; when the sauce 
boils add one quart of boiled shrimp, a half teaspoon of 
salt, and a tablespoon of Worcestershire sauce, one beaten 
egg yolk; cover and cook about fifteen minutes, stirring 
occasionally so that it does not burn. Serve turned into 
the center of a ring of boiled rice. 

MOLLUSKS 

Oysters 

September marks the annual return of oysters to the 
menu, and they are always welcome. No other viand 
seems to take just their place, though the clam does its 
best to fill in the vacation period. Oysters are not only 



SKell FisH 139 

serviceable used on the half shell, in sauce, roasted, stewed, 
and fried, but in numberless ways they may be prepared 
to form a course by themselves. 

If one has a cool cellar in which they may be stored, they 
are better when bought in quantity in the shell and they 
will keep for a long time covered with damp seaweed or 
sprinkled with wet cornmeal. If this is impossible, they 
should be opened by the fish dealer in order that the cus- 
tomer may have them at their best. 

The oyster requires very little cooking, and if used in 
stew it should only be dropped in for a couple of minutes 
until the beard curls, then removed instantly from the 
fire. If the oysters are to be broiled, the gridiron 
should be thoroughly warmed, so that they may cook 
quickly without drying when they are put over the heat. 
If they are fried, the batter should be very delicate and 
the fat very hot, so that they may fry quickly. The 
habit of adding cornmeal to the batter makes too coarse 
and heavy a coating for the delicate texture of the oyster. 
They are best when simply dusted with fine cracker crumbs 
just before being dropped into the hot fat, using no 
batter at all. 

Raw on the half shell is a most popular way of serving 
them, with lemon, tabasco, or horseradish sauce. Spiced or 
pickled, two on a tiny round of toast with a few drops of 
anchovy sauce, they make a most acceptable relish. In 
the familiar cocktail they masquerade under the highly 
seasoned cloak of tomato sauce. 

Delicately broiled on heavy white paper and placed on 
toast sippets, with melted butter, they make a dainty 
addition to the invalid's tray. In the dry stew, Boston 
stew and milk stew they are equally good. 

Roasted over the outdoor log fire they are most popular 
for beach party refreshments on early fall nights, when corn 
roasts have gone out of season. A large oyster rolled up 
in a thin slice of bacon, pinned with a wooden skewer and 
delicately fried, served with toast, fingers and cress, are the 



140 SKell Fish 

little "pigs in blankets" that are so inviting to the fitful 
appetite of the epicure for breakfast on the dawn of the 
"morning after." 

Creamed, they are very inviting if the cream is richly 
made. Scalloped oysters are nice baked in the baking 
shells or the little ramekins. In salads, sandwiches, patties, 
fried and served in turkey stuffing the oyster's use is well 
known to nearly all cooks. 

Oysters a la Newburg are quite popular for the chafing 
dish suppers, and the following is a good recipe for them: — 
Stew three dozen oysters in their own liquor with a pinch 
of salt until the edges curl, then drain them and add two 
tablespoons of sherry to the cream made by heating a 
gill of cream and thickening it with a tablespoon of flour 
rubbed into two ounces of butter, add the hard-boiled yolks 
of three eggs rubbed smooth in a little cream, stir until all 
is thick and smooth, then add the wine and oysters, and serve 
hot, adding salt and pepper to taste. 

•I 

Oyster Loaf 

Take one well-shaped loaf of baker's bread, slice off the 
top lengthways, carefully remove the crumb from it and 
draw through two little slits a wide white satin ribbon which 
ties in a big bow on the top. Deftly hollow out the bottom 
of the loaf, leaving a quarter-inch crust entirely around and 
on the bottom of the loaf. Crumple tissue paper and fill 
the loaf with it, put on the cover and set it aside in a cool 
place; this is done so that the loaf will not lose its shape. 
When ready for service remove the paper, fill the loaf with 
rich creamed oysters and send to the table garnished with 
parsley. 

Baked Oyster Newburg 

Make a rich Newburg sauce, and when it is thoroughly 
smooth and at boiling point add a solid quart of oysters 



SHell FisH 141 

that have been carefully wiped dry on a linen towel. Let 
them boil up once, then turn into a buttered casserole 
baking dish, sprinkle over the top a tablespoon of very fine 
bread crumbs, a tablespoon of grated English cheese and a 
little paprika, and brown lightly in the oven. Serve hot or 
cold with hot biscuits and fresh butter. A tablespoon of 
sherry improves the flavor. 

Oysters Baked in Tomatoes 

Take as many large firm tomatoes as there are portions 
to be served, cut and hollow out the stem end. Take enough 
small bluepoint oysters to allow four to each tomato, add 
for each four oysters a teaspoon of bread crumbs, a half tea- 
spoon of grated cheese, a few drops of onion juice and half 
a teaspoon of finely chopped celery. Fill the tomatoes 
with the mixture, place them in a buttered baking dish and 
turn over each a teaspoon of melted butter; dust lightly 
with a little bit of flour and bake until tender, but not until 
the tomato falls. Garnish with fried parsley. 

Oyster and Com Scallop 

Cut the kernels from eight ears of fresh, tender com, 
add to them two gills of melted butter, one gill of sweet 
cream, two tablespoons of sugar, a saltspoon of pepper, 
half a teaspoon of salt, and two well beaten eggs. Butter 
a baking dish, put in a layer of the corn, then a layer of 
oysters. Have ready four slices of pickled pork that 
has been diced and fried a delicate brown, dot the oysters 
with the pork and dust with a tablespoon of fine bread 
crumbs; put on another layer of the corn mixture, then 
the oysters and pork with the crumbs, and so on until 
the dish is filled. If the dish seems a little dry add a 
little more sweet cream, then dust the top lightly with 
grated cheese and bake. 



142 SKell Fish 

Oyster Pie 

Line a deep pie plate with pie crust. Make a cream sauce, 
not too thick, and put into it a pint of solid oysters. Fill 
the pie with the creamed oysters, put on the top crust and 
bake a delicate brown. This makes a very nice entree. 
Cut the pie in squares instead of the usual wedge-shaped 
pieces, and serve a tablespoon of whipped cream on top 
of each portion, dusting with a little pepper and salt. 

Oyster Croquettes 

Take three dozen fresh oysters, strain off the liquor and 
set it aside. Chop the oysters and mix them with an equal 
quantity of cold boiled, chopped chicken and six chopped 
mushrooms. Put them into a saucepan, add the liquor 
and one teaspoon of Worcestershire sauce, two beaten eggs, 
and two tablespoons of cream, salt and pepper to taste. 
Stir and cook until the mixture thickens, then set it aside to 
cool. When cold form into croquettes, roll in egg and 
cracker dust, fry in hot fat and serve garnished with parsley 
and crisp slices of fried bacon. 

Oyster Bundles 

Make some good pie crust, roll out thin, and cut into 
strips six inches long by three inches wide. Lay on each 
strip a slice of bacon, one good-sized oyster and a teaspoon 
of the following sauce: Take a cup of cold boiled shrimp, 
mince very fine and add to it a teaspoon of Worcestershire 
sauce, a teaspoon of finely chopped tarragon leaves, a des- 
sertspoon of chutney syrup, a little melted butter, and a 
very stiffly beaten egg white. Lay a teaspoon of this on each 
oyster, roll up the bundles , put them in well buttered baking 
dishes, and bake until the crust is done. Have ready a 
rich, heavy, smooth tomato sauce, and put a small quantity 
on each bundle as it is served. 



SHell FisH 143 

Escalloped Oysters 

In making the escalloped oysters, take one quart of 
oysters as solid as it is possible to get them; drain and dry 
them on cheesecloth folders. Butter a baking dish, then 
lay in alternate layers of oysters and fresh cracker dust, 
covering each layer with little pieces of butter, and a sprink- 
ling of pepper and salt. Proceed this way until the dish 
is filled, the top layer being crumbs. Add the lumps of 
butter on the top, a cup of the liquor from the oysters, 
and two gills of cream. Bake in a moderate oven until it is 
delicately brown on top. Serve in the dish in which it is 
baked, folding a napkin about the dish to make it more 
■sightly. Olives, celery, and little hot biscuits, quick or 
raised, should be offered with this course. 

Bombay Oysters 

Select large frying oysters, allowing four to a portion. 
Broil the oysters on a well buttered grill and then lay them 
on a shallow buttered baking pan. Have ready a cup of 
minced chicken seasoned with a half saltspoon of pepper, 
a saltspoon of salt, a tablespoon of chutney syrup, a table- 
spoon of melted butter, a tablespoon of cream, and the 
stiffly beaten white of an egg. Mix thoroughly and put a 
spoonful on the top of each oyster, and then let them 
brown lightly in the oven. vServe on hot plates on thinly 
sliced pieces of buttered toast, pour over each portion a little 
cream sauce made not too thick, and garnish with a spray of 
parsley. 

Curried Oysters 

■ Curried oysters are made by taking the liquor of one quart 
of oysters, heat it and thicken with two tablespoons of flour 
rubbed into two tablespoons of butter and one teaspoon of 
curry powder. When thickened add the oysters, let simmer 
five minutes, being careful it does not burn, and serve. 



144 SHell FisH 

Oyster Shortcake 

Make a good shortcake and bake in pie plates. While 
it is baking, stew three dozen oysters in their own liquor 
until the edges curl; make a rich cream sauce, the same as 
for creamed oysters; drain, add them to it, and season well. 
Split the shortcake and pour the mixture between and over 
it. Do not neglect to butter the layers well before adding 
the oysters. 

CLAMS 

Too often after oysters come back into season is the 
humble clam relegated to the background, and seldom met 
except in the chowder. The clam is too useful and too 
moderate in price to be neglected. The large round clam 
is generally opened and chopped for chowder use. Soft 
clams sold by the string are sometimes used for chowder 
and sometimes for frying, or they are chopped and used 
for fritters. The thin-shelled long clams are the ideal 
"steamers." Clams may be had all year round. 

There is a square cloth bag fastened with snap catches 
designed for steaming clams so that they may be drained 
and sent to table right in the bag. The clams are tho- 
roughly washed and scrubbed with a brush and lukewarm 
water before being put into the bag, so that they are free 
from sand. The bags may easily be made at home to hold 
single portions of one dozen each or large enough for the 
family supply. 

Baked Clams 

Steam open enough small, round clams to allow seven to 
each ramekin, add to them a cup of bread crumbs, a salt- 
spoon of pepper, a saltspoon of salt, a gill of melted butter, 
the juice of an onion, tablespoon of Worcestershire sauce, a 
teaspoon of English mustard, teaspoon of chopped tarragon 
leaves, one beaten egg and a gill of cream. Fill well buttered 



SKell FisK 145 

ramekins with the mixture and bake a delicate brown; 
serve hot. 

Escalloped Clams 

For this dish the clams should be opened like oysters, 
and fifty medium sized ones will be needed. Butter a 
baking dish, then put in a layer of clams, then a thin layer 
of dried crumbs, dust with pepper and dot with little lumps 
of butter. Proceed this way until all the clams are used 
up, then turn over all a rich but thin cream sauce, dust the 
top with a little grated cheese, and bake for half an hour. It 
will take a cup and a half of the sauce, perhaps a little 
more — it must be judged by the dish quantity, as it should 
come up nearly to the top of the mixture. 

Clam Pie 

Steam open, after thoroughly washing the shells, four 
dozen round clams. Make a rich cream sauce, not too 
thick, and add the clams to it ; add a half saltspoon of celery 
salt, the juice of one onion and a half saltspoon of mignon- 
ette pepper. Have ready as many large ramekins lined 
with good pie crust as are needed for the number to be 
served; fill them with the mixture and put on the top 
crust, which should be perforated with a silver fork. Bake 
until the crust is done. These pies should be cooled 
naturally but never chilled. 

Ciuried Clams 

Steam open sufficient clams to allow six or more to a 
portion. Make a good curry sauce, and when done drop 
the clams into it, boil up once to heat them, then serve on 
toast garnished with pimento olives. In proportion only 
a level teaspoon of the curry powder should be used for a 
pint of cream sauce. 
9 



146 SKell FisK 

MUSSELS 

In the sea mussel we have a shell-fish as palatable as the 
oyster, much more nutritious, and more digestible. It 
contains only half as much waste as the oyster, is more 
abundant, and is adapted for making a great variety of 
food combinations. Furthermore, it is in season for the 
table when the oyster is out of season. 

Mussels may be eaten plain if desired, in which case they 
are prepared by washing them well and then placing in a 
pan with slices of onions and a little chopped parsley. 
After being on the fire ten minutes, by which time all the 
shells will have opened, they should be removed, the beard 
and black portion cut off, and they are then ready to eat in 
their own juice. 

Buttered Mussels 

If fresh, steam a quart of mussels open, remove from the 
shells and saute in a gill of butter, pepper and salt for two 
or three minutes until they curl; then serve on slices of 
toast garnished with fresh cress. If bottled, drain carefully 
and remove the whole spices that are often in them, rinse 
through cold water, wipe dry on a linen cloth, then saute in 
the butter, adding a generous dash of red pepper, and a 
pinch of salt, and serve on toast in the same way. 

SCALLOPS 

In our markets during the scallop season two kinds ap- 
pear. The very large, deep sea scallops which are used for 
soups, in chowders, or chopped to use in made fish dishes are 
stronger in flavor and tougher in fiber than the smaller scal- 
lops which are sweet in flavor and tender. The latter 
usually appear in Newburgs, stews, fries, and salads. 

Scallops en Casserole 

Drain and dry a quart of large scallops; then dip them in 
beaten egg and roll them in some very fine crumbs that 



SKell FisH 147 

have a little grated cheese, a saltspoon of pepper, and a 
half teaspoon of salt added to them. Heap them in a 
buttered casserole dish and turn over them the same cream 
sauce as is used with the codfish tongues. If the quantity 
of the sauce seems insufficient, add an extra gill of cream. 
If desired, a wineglass of sherry may be added. 

SNAILS 

The use of snails as food is practically unknown in this 
country, but it is common in Europe, especially in France 
and Austria, and has been introduced here to some extent 
by immigrants from those countries. 

When the snails are gathered from the woods or in the 
open country it is not considered altogether safe to use 
them for food immediately. The reason for this lies in the 
fact that the snails are likely to feed upon all sorts of 
plants and cases of poisoning have been known. It is 
customary, therefore, to keep them for a time in enclosures 
where they may be properly fed and cared for until ready 
for market. 

The enclosure is usually divided by narrow paths, between 
which is strewn a layer of moss, in which the snails seek 
shelter from the sun and from changes of temperature. 

The food provided for snails in captivity consists mainly 
of lettuce, endive, cabbage, dandelion leaves, and chopped 
kohlrabi. These vegetables are raised on a considerable 
scale for this purpose. The food is laid upon the moss, 
and care must be taken to remove all portions of decayed 
food and other undesirable matter — a precaution essential 
to the health of the snail. 

The snails are gathered during the summer and kept in 
the preserves until the later autumn season. They are 
seasonable in June, July, and August for table use. 

The snail in France is classed much the same as the 
oyster is in America, used as an entree, tidbit, or delicacy. 
In smart restaurants and hotels they sell, prepared as an 



148 Shell FisK 

entree at thirty or forty cents a plate, washed down by the 
choicest of French wine. As many as five thousand of 
the best large white ones are used a day in a popular restau- 
rant, while from ten to twelve thousand of the cheaper 
grade are used during the twenty-four hours. The Bur- 
gundy snails are sent to market cooked. They are taken at 
their dormant season, they are carefully picked over, dead 
ones thrown aside and the epiphragms (the covering with 
which they protect the opening of their shell in winter) 
and they are then put into running water until thoroughly 
cleansed, then they are boiled in salted water. When done 
they are picked from their shells chopped to a paste and 
seasoned with chopped chervil, parsley, and shalots, then 
put between thin slices of sweet butter. After the shells 
are scrubbed white and are thoroughly dried they are 
stuffed with the mixture, packed and sent to regular cus- 
tomers in the required numbers. 

Another favorite way of cooking the snails is to cleanse 
them and boil them for five minutes in the shell, then re- 
move them from the shells and boil them two hours. 
When done they are chopped and then delicately seasoned, 
and the shells having been cleaned, they are stuffed, and a 
plug of the fresh butter worked to a paste with the chopped 
parsley, shalots, and seasoning. When ready for serving 
the snails may be heated in a pan for five minutes which 
melts the butter that flavors the meat, they are sent to 
table on a hot dish and are eaten with a two-pronged fork. 

Still another way is to make the a la Bordelaise and add 
it to the chopped snail meat prepared as directed, then 
spread the mixture on toast rounds and bake a little while 
in the oven. The sauce is made of red wine, butter, garlic, 
and seasoning. 

The escargots or edible snails sold in America are sent 
here alive in casks from Europe, but it is claimed by the 
department of agriculture that the Mississippi Valley would 
be ideal in every way for raising snails and that snaileries 
established there would be a paying investment. Snails 



SKell FisK 149 

are really more wholesome than oysters for they feed 
daintily on clean vegetable tissues, while oysters must 
take their nourishment from whatever water they are 
placed in, whether pure or impiu"e. 



ENTREES 

The art of entree making is one that has to be carefully 
studied by the at-home cook, but when once mastered 
means the knowledge of using left-overs to the best advan- 
tage, as well as the ability of knowing how to use fresh 
things economically. The entree always adds the little 
touch of elegance to the simplest meal that removes it 
from the commonplace. 

The so-called made dish is one of the secrets of the 
French woman's economy. To use up left-overs in an 
appetizing way is a long step towards reducing the cost of 
living. 

Among these entrees are many dishes which may be 
selected for breakfast or luncheon use ; the selection being 
made according to the grade of left-overs from the day 
before. 

Madeira Blidneys 

Take one dozen kidneys, skin and cut them partly in 
two; put on in cold water and let slowly come to boiling; 
pour off the water and add fresh, repeating this four times; 
then add one onion, a bay leaf, two cloves, and a pepper, 
and let them boil until tender. Have ready a brown sauce 
made of one pound of round steak cut in small squares, a 
soup bunch cut fine and covered with enough water to 
fill the pan; cover and simmer for an hour, while the kidneys 
are cooking; then strain and thicken with flour and butter 
creamed together; add a teaspoon of salt, a saltspoon of 
pepper, six seeded raisins and a wineglass of madeira wine ; 
add when the sauce is ready, turn altogether and serve 

150 



Entrees 151 

on toast sippets, garnished with parsley. Kidneys are 
cheap, and when properly cooked are tasty in an entree. 

Dutch Croquettes 

Take one cup of chopped pecan nuts, two cups of fine 
bread crumbs, a quarter saltspoon of pepper, a half teaspoon 
of salt, one beaten egg, juice of an onion, teaspoon of 
Worcestershire sauce, a tablespoon of melted butter and 
enough sweet cream to make the mixture into a consistency 
to mold into croquettes. Form the croquettes into any 
desired shapes, dust them with flour, lay them on a floured 
plate and set them in a cool place until it is time to use them. 
Fry them in deep hot fat, drain and serve them in a napkin 
garnished with parsley and lemon quarters. 

Mock Chicken Cutlet 

For the mock chicken cutlet, grind two cups of bread 
crumbs with one cup of walnuts, add a tablespoon of onion 
juice, piece of butter, and a half saltspoon of mace. Thicken 
two cups of milk with butter and flour, rubbed to a paste. 
Add the other ingredients with a half teaspoon of salt, 
quarter saltspoon of pepper, a well beaten egg, and a tea- 
spoon of lemon juice. Stir well, then turn into dish to 
cool. Shape into cutlets, dip in egg and cracker dust and 
fry in butter a delicate brown. Garnish with parsley. 

A Company Luncheon Dish 

This rather troublesome dish is excellent for the luncheon 
fish course and is made by stewing a half pint of scallops 
in a quarter of a cup of butter, juice of a lemon and half a 
cup of white wine; twelve oysters cooked in their own 
liquor, four soft clams parboiled in a little salted water, 
three ounces of oyster crabs sauted in butter, and a cup of 
boiled lobster and crab meat flaked. Drain the scallops 
and oysters and mix all the sea fruit in the saucepan. 



T52 Entrees 

Add to the drained liquors from the oysters and scallops 
four minced shalots and a teaspoon of chopped parsley, 
two mashed anchovies and two tablespoons of thick cream. 
Heat well, season to taste and strain over the sea fruit in 
a hot silver dish, and garnish with toast sippets and 
watercress. 

Lobster k la Militaire 

Sauce: Melt in chafing dish three quarters of a cup of 
butter. Add a small grated onion, half a lemon sliced thin, 
one clove, a quarter saltspoon of pepper, and a quarter 
teaspoon of salt, a wineglass of sherry, one bay leaf, and a 
tablespoon of tarragon vinegar. Let simmer for fifteen 
minutes. Then add the yolks of three well beaten eggs 
and stir carefully five minutes. Have the meat of one 
boiled lobster cut in small pieces. Place it in a hot dish 
and strain the sauce over it. Garnish with olives stuffed 
with pimentos. 

Chopped Calves* Liver 

Boil a pound of calves' liver and chop it just as fine as 
possible, season with a half teaspoon of salt, a half saltspoon 
of pepper, and plenty of butter, pile on toast squares and 
garnish with strips of crisp bacon. Upon each portion lay a 
poached egg. Delicately broiled potatoes are served with 
this dish. 

Sardine Omelet 

Beat five eggs and add to them one tablespoon of cream, 
a half teaspoon of salt, a quarter saltspoon of pepper, a tea- 
spoon of Worcestershire sauce and four sardines that have 
been skinned, boned and broken into small pieces. Dissolve 
two level tablespoons of butter in the omelet pan and 
when hot, pour in the omelet. Stir it constantly until it 
begins to set. Fold, and serve on a hot plate garnished 
with cress. 



Entrees 153 

Sherry Tenderloin 

After cutting away all arteries and splitting open four 
lambs' hearts, boil in slightly salted water until very tender; 
chop fine and add one onion, a stalk of celery, one tart 
apple chopped fine, a half cup of bread crumbs, an egg well 
beaten, one half cup of melted butter, a half saltspoon of 
pepper, a quarter teaspoon of salt, and a wineglass of 
sherry wine. 

Have ready two pork tenderloins; spread the mixture 
between; fasten together by small skewers or with cord; 
place in baking pan; dust with pepper and salt; cover and 
roast until the meat is done (about a half hour), basting 
with a little melted butter and sherry very often; remove 
the cover and let brown; place on a platter and pour over 
the gravy made from the drippings and a little water added, 
thickened with browned flour. Garnish with slices of hard- 
boiled eggs and parsley. 

Polish Stewed Tongue 

Prepare a fresh tongue and boil in the usual way. Sautd 
a chopped onion and a little chopped pepper in butter; add 
a tablespoon of flour mixed smooth with a little of the 
water the tongue was boiled in, a cup and a half of the 
tongue water, a dash of nutmeg, a little cinnamon, two 
tablespoons of vinegar, a little thinly sliced lemon, and one 
tablespoon of sugar. Mix all ingredients thoroughly to- 
gether and allow them to boil up smooth; then add the 
tongue that has been skinned and diced, and serve turned 
around a pat of panned spinach. 

Deviled Oysters on Half-Shell 

Poach oysters in their own liquor, drain, saving the liquor 
for moistening highly seasoned sauce, made by creaming 
butter and flour, adding cream and oyster liquor, chopped 
parsley, saltspoon of dry mustard, saltspoon of salt, and a 



154 Entrees 

quarter saltspoon of pepper. Last of all beat in two egg 
yolks. Chop oysters, add to sauce, and fill into deep half 
of the oyster shells, covering with buttered bread crumbs. 
Place in oven until crumbs are brown. Serve two or three 
to a portion and garnish with lemon. 

Herring Roe, Madeira Sauce 

Remove the herring roe from the can, drain, and roll in 
fine cracker dust; fry it to a delicate brown in butter, drain, 
and garnish with fresh, crisp cress, drawing the sprays 
through thin slices of lemon, and serve the following sauce 
in a silver boat. To one glass of currant jelly add one glass 
of madeira wine, drop in three cloves, and when melted 
and hot, but not boiling, it is ready. 

Sausage a la Malaga 

From good puff paste cut two four-inch square pieces. 
Take two tablespoons of Boston sage sausage, add a little 
extra seasoning, a tablespoon of cream, and a teaspoon of 
melted butter. Place half in each pastry square. Seed 
and wash one dozen large Malaga grapes, put half in each 
pastry, turn a teaspoon of honey over each, pinch the pas- 
try, and bake twenty minutes. Serve garnished with cress 
and sliced fried apple. 

Marron and Sweetbread Casserole 

Parboil one large pair of sweetbreads; when done trim 
and dice. Butter a medium-sized casserole and lay in the 
diced breads, add to them a cupful of drained button mush- 
rooms, and one dozen little potato balls cut with the cutter; 
slice in three truffles. Have ready one pint of cooking mar- 
rons stewed until tender in their own liquor, then drained 
and mashed through a sieve; add to the pulp a gill of 
melted butter, a gill of cream, one grated onion, and a half 



Entrees 155 

cup of grated pineapple, a teaspoon of chutney syrup, a 
half saltspoon of pepper, a heaping saltspoon of salt, and, if 
a little thick, add a little more cream, then turn over the 
sweetbreads. Bake and serve. 

Creamed Sausages 

Parboil one pound and a half of pork sausages, drain, and 
cool. When cold remove the skins and cut the meat into 
one-inch lengths; make a rich cream sauce, put the sausages 
in, and leave them long enough to heat through. Serve 
on slices of toast garnished with sliced fried- apple rounds. 

Savory Marrow Bones 

Have marrow bones cut the desired length and boil 
them in a linen cloth in fair water long enough to release 
the marrow, about fifteen minutes. Stuff the bones with 
a mixture of sweetbreads, mushrooms, the marrow, and 
savory seasoning, and bake in a moderate oven. When 
done, they may be fitted with a paper collar and a black 
ribbon tie, tied in a square bow, and a paper fool's cap, 
and served on lace paper doilies. 

Sausage Puffs 

From good puff paste, rolled the thickness of pie crust, cut 
four-inch squares, as many as are needed for the portions 
that are to be served, allowing one or two extra. Take 
sausage meat and season it very highly, adding a tablespoon 
of chutney syrup to the mass, and use a tablespoon for the 
filling of each paste squg.re, folding it nearly over so as to 
leave a little opening on top, in which place a large seeded 
layer raisin. Bake a delicate brown in the oven, serve 
on a hot platter garnished with cress and delicately sliced 
broiled potatoes. Serve with the puffs a dish of fresh apple 
sauce. 



156 Entrees 

Banana and French Sausage Croquettes 

Steam four large bananas until tender, then mash them 
fine, add to them one small can of the French sausage, 
add a small cup of fine crumbs and a saltspoon of salt, 
half as much mignonette pepper, a teaspoon of green mus- 
tard with fine herbs, a tablespoon of melted butter, and one 
beaten egg, roll into croquettes, dip in egg, then in crumbs, 
and fry in butter. Drain and serve with broiled veal 
cutlets. 

Kidneys and Brandied Brown Sauce 

Prepare as many kidneys as are required for the number 
of guests; put them to boil in cold water; let them boil for 
two hours, changing the water seven times, and the last 
time throw in a spice bag, a half-cup of vinegar, a sliced 
onion, a pepper, and a half saltspoon of salt. When done 
remove and have ready a good brown sauce, made of one 
cup of beef stock and a cup of milk, thickened with flour 
and butter blended together, flavored with a small cup 
of sherry, one tablespoon of brandy, a dozen raisins, and 
six olives pared in curls from the stones. Serve very hot 
in covered dish. 

Toad in Hole 

Make a smooth batter of six ounces of flour, one pint 
of milk, and three eggs, beat smooth and turn into a well 
buttered baking dish. Into the batter lay a few slices of 
cold mutton which has been dusted with pepper and salt; 
add one dozen oysters and two dozen coarsely chopped 
button mushrooms, season, put a little butter over the top 
and bake. Send to table in the baking dish. 

Chicken Adrienne 

Take three thinly sliced .chicken livers, hearts, and giz- 
zards. Let them marinate in the juice of an onion, a tea- 



Entrees 157 

spoon of mustard sauce, the juice of a lemon, a half saltspoon 
of pepper, a half teaspoon of salt, and a bud of garlic for one 
hour. Drain, saute in butter, to which add a small wine- 
glass of sherry, four seeded raisins, and two truffles sliced 
thin. Take the breast of a boiled chicken, heat in the 
steamer, then butter lightly with pate-de-foie-gras, and lay 
it on toast sippets. Turn the sauce over it, garnish with 
cress, and serve with hot rolls and currant jelly. 

Jellied Calves* Tongues 

Trim and boil until tender two fresh calves' tongues, skin, 
and when cold lay in a wet mold, the heavy ends of the 
tongues at the ends of the mold. Have ready a tomato 
jelly made in the following way : One can of tomatoes, one 
sliced onion, a saltspoon of pepper, a half teaspoon of salt, 
a tablespoon of sugar, whites and shells of two eggs, two 
ounces of gelatine powder that has been dissolved in a little 
cold water, a tablespoon of vinegar, and three cups of water. 
Beat over the fire until it boils, then draw to one side and 
allow it to boil slowly for three minutes, then let it stand 
covered closely for five minutes, strain, and turn over the 
tongues. When cool set it near the ice to chill and become 
firm. When ready to serve turn on to a platter, garnish 
with fresh cress, and croutons spread thinly with pate-de- 
foie-gras with a slice of truffle in the center of each. 

Savory Chipped Beef 

Take one jar, bottle, or box of the finest chipped beef; 
make a rich cream sauce, adding sufficient beef to serve 
the required portions, and garnish with toast sippets that 
have been lightly buttered and sprinkled with a little 
finely chopped watercress. 

Tripe a la Poulette 

Parboil a small quantity of tripe, drain, and cut into 
small pieces. Make a rich cream sauce highly seasoned, 



158 Entrees 

add the tripe and a teaspoon of finely chopped red pepper, 
and serve on toast garnished with crisp sHces of bacon and 
fresh cress. Serve a dish of tart apple sauce with the 
entree. 

Scallop Blanquette 

Dip in egg and very fine crumbs six deep-sea scallops, 
and fry in hot fat to a delicate brown, drain, and place in a 
shallow open casserole ; have ready a Newburg sauce made 
with cream. Turn it over the scallops. Dust lightly with 
grated English cheese, set in a hot oven long enough to 
melt and brown the cheese, and serve with tiny hot rolls 
and apricot jam. 

Ham Mousse 

Coat a wet mold with aspic and allow it to set. Put one 
pound of cold boiled ham through the meat chopper, add 
to it a tablespoon of Worcestershire sauce, a tablespoon of 
chutney syrup, four tablespoons of liquid aspic, two cups 
of whipped cream; beat well and pour into the mold and 
cover with a layer of the aspic. When it is turned out to 
serve, garnish with parsley and radish roses. 

Frogs' Legs, Currant Sauce 

Prepare and fry four frogs' legs and lay them on buttered 
toast. Melt two tablespoons of currant jelly and add 
to it one tablespoon of madeira. Broil six mushrooms 
without the stems and lay them over the legs. Slice three 
truffles into the hot jelly, add pepper and salt, and turn it 
over the legs. Serve with hot raised biscuit and fresh 
radishes. 

Savory Cherokees 

Parboil in salted water one pair of sweetbreads. Cool, 
blanch, and cut in small pieces. Add three quarters of a 



Entrees 159 

cup of fresh, stoned cherries, a half cup of cracker dust, a 
tablespoon of grated cheese, a quarter saltspoon of pepper, a 
saltspoon of salt and beaten egg, a tablespoon of sherry to 
moisten the mixture, and fill well-buttered baking shells. 
Place a lump of butter on top and bake in moderate oven. 
Serve as entree, garnished with parsley. 

Chinese Fish 

Delicately broil half a flounder. Make a cup of brown 
sauce from rich stock and brown flour. Add to it six water 
chestnuts sliced thin, a teaspoon of finely chopped celery, 
and a slice of finely shredded fresh pineapple. Fry three 
Spanish peppers in oil, drain, lay on the fish, turn the 
sauce over it, garnish with beet roses and cress, and serve 
with pineapple and ginger jam. 

Baked Beans and Honey 

Bake the beans after soaking and boiling in the usual 
way in a small individual pot, using honey in place of 
molasses to brown and sweeten them. Serve hot with 
brown bread toast and stewed rhubarb. 

Liver Savory 

Take half a pound of calves' liver, boil until tender, chop 
very fine, add a tablespoon of melted currant jelly, a table- 
spoon of madeira, a quarter saltspoon of pepper, a half 
saltspoon of salt, four drops of onion juice, a pinch of savory 
herbs, and spread on a buttered toast square. Turn over 
it a tablespoon of asparagus tips moistened in melted but- 
ter. Serve with cucumber jelly and Parker House rolls. 

Liver and Apple Rounds 

Boil a half pound of calves' liver until tender, then chop 
fine, season with a half saltspoon of pepper, a half teaspoon 
of salt, and heat in a generous lump of melted butter; 



l6o Entrees 

when hot, add two tablespoons of apple sauce and spread 
on a toast round, then lay another round on top with a 
spoonful of currant jelly in the center of it. 

Tongue Turnovers 

Boil, skin, and dice two calves' tongues; make a well- 
flavored tomato sauce, and marinate the tongue in it as it 
cools. Make a puff paste, cut in square shape, as for apple 
turnovers, fill with the mixture, and bake a delicate brown. 
Serve hot, garnished with watercress. 

Tripe a la Creole 

Cut the tripe into strips three inches long and an inch 
and a half wide, using about a pound and a half. Fry one 
onion in butter, add to it a cupful of stock, a finely chopped 
pepper, a tablespoon of Worcestershire sauce, and six 
button mushrooms sliced. Thicken with butter and flour 
rubbed to a cream; season and add the tripe. Cook ten 
minutes and serve hot garnished with toast sippets. 

Sweetbread OUves 

Parboil a large pair of sweetbreads; when cold chop 
very fine, with two cold-boiled chicken livers, add a table- 
spoon of cold fried bread crumbs that were carefully drained, 
juice of an onion, teaspoon of Worcestershire sauce, a tea- 
spoon of finely ground nutmeats, a tablespoon of cream 
to bind the mixture; then mold into little olives about two 
inches long and an inch thick. Have individual molds 
lined with aspic, allow two olives to a portion with a table- 
spoon of vegetable macedoine carefully drained and a table- 
spoon of Madagascar sauce, filling the mold with aspic. 
Chill, and when ready to serve turn on to lettuce leaves 
and garnish with a spray of cress and a radish rose. If not 
convenient to purchase the Madagascar sauce, heavy 
mayonnaise will do. 



Entrees i6i 

Sweetbreads a la Port 

Parboil a fresh large pair of sweetbreads in slightly salted 
water for twenty minutes ; when done cut into small pieces 
and add a tablespoon of butter, a quarter saltspoon of 
pepper, a half teaspoon of salt, two tablespoons of cracker 
dust, and one beaten egg. Melt a quarter glass of currant 
jelly with a wine glass of good port wine and add to the 
mixture. Fill little ramekins that have been lightly 
buttered and grate a little cheese over the top of each. 
Bake a delicate brown and garnish with fresh cress and a 
slice of lemon. 

Sweetbreads and Mushrooms 

Take one pound of fresh mushrooms, peel, and use the 
tops only — the stems may be used in soup. Fry to a deli- 
cate brown in butter, seasoned with pepper and salt. 
Have ready a pair of sweetbreads that have been parboiled 
and blanched; dice and mix with the mushrooms. Make 
baskets of good pastry, shaping over patty pans; fill them 
with the mixture, sprinkling a little grated cheese on top 
and pinching on the handle. Bake fifteen minutes, serve 
on a doily, and garnish with a spray of fresh cress. 

Entree with Sweetbreads 

Another attractive entree is of sweetbread foundation. 
After parboiling a pair of sweetbreads, cut them fine, add a 
tablespoon of chopped celery, another of nuts, another of 
crumbs, juice of an onion, a saltspoon each of pepper 
and salt, a wineglass of sherry, a teaspoon of sugar, and 
a cup of smooth apple sauce. Roll out some pie crust 
and cut into squares; fill with the sweetbread mixture and 
fold like apple dumplings, putting a generous piece of 
butter in each. Bake a delicate brown in medium oven 
and serve garnished with cress and a tiny mold of mint 
jelly. 



l62 Entrees 

NOVEL USES OF PATE SHELLS 

Good pastry pat^ shells should be used by the at-home 
cook much more frequently than they are, for they are 
capable of so many variations in different fillings, either 
made from left-overs or from new material, that they are 
well worth her consideration. The use of pates means 
individual service, which is always economy in both food 
and labor, no bread or rolls being necessary with them. 

The pate shells, if purchased from a baker, must be made 
by one who thoroughly understands the art; they should 
be of fine crust, not necessarily of puff paste, but crust 
which, if it is cooled , will bear heating again without becoming 
oily or indigestible. If the shells are homemade they are 
usually better than those one can purchase, though it takes 
a little knack in learning to shape them. The best 
butter, fresh lard, sweet milk, icewater, and pastry flour 
insure the best paste, and many good cooks think that a 
tiny bit of baking powder in the pie crust gives it lightness 
and fine texture. 

Codfish Tongue Pate 

Secure six medium-size codfish tongues, parboil them 
until tender, and when done trim and dice them. Add to 
them two coarsely diced hard-boiled eggs, one finely minced 
red pepper, and six chopped olives. Make a cream sauce 
and add the tongue, and just before taking the mixture from 
the fire add half a glass of sherry. Fill pat^ shells and 
heat. Garnish the pates with fresh cress. 

Sweetbread Pate 

Parboil, blanch, and dice a large pair of sweetbreads. 
Take one cup of button mushrooms, chop them coarsely, 
slice six truffles into thin slices and add these to the sweet- 
breads. For the sauce squeeze the juice of one large lemon 
into the saucepan and add to it a lump of butter the size 



Entrees 163 

of a hen's egg; when melted together add a saltspoon of 
bicarbonate of soda and a cup of cold cream. Mix a table- 
spoon of cornstarch in half a cup of milk and add this also 
to the sauce and stir until the mixture is as thick as cold 
honey; add a quarter saltspoon of cayenne pepper, half a 
teaspoon of salt, and a teaspoon of onion juice, then add the 
sweetbread mixture and allow all to cook gently for five 
minutes. If it should be a little too thick add a little plain 
cream. When done fill the p^td shells with it and heat. 
Garnish with olive curls lightly spread with anchovy 
paste. 

Macedoine Vegetable Pate 

Open and drain one bottle of macedoine of vegetables, 
add to them a teaspoon of chopped parsley and a teaspoon of 
chopped tarragon leaves. Make the sauce in the following 
way: Pare and slice six onions, fry them in two ounces of 
butter a delicate brown ; when done and a good color, pour 
over them a pint of good rich stock, add a quarter saltspoon 
of pepper, a saltspoon of salt, and a little savory seasoning, 
then let all simmer gently until the onions are very tender. 
Then put through a sieve, put it back in the saucepan, and 
add the vegetables; let all boil up for five minutes until 
heated thoroughly. If the gravy seems a little thin add a 
little browned flour made smooth in a little water. When 
done fill the pite shells with the mixture, heat and serve 
garnished with a sweet pickled pimento. 

Oyster Pate 

Make the cream first after the following rule: Melt a 
large tablespoon of butter, add to it the juice of half a 
lemon and a level saltspoon of bicarbonate of soda. While 
it is foaming up add a cup of rich milk or part cream, in 
which a teaspoon of cornstarch has been dissolved. 
Stir carefully until it is the proper consistency, taking care 



1 64 Entrees 

that it does not burn, then set aside to keep warm. Scald 
the oysters in their own liquor and when the edges curl, in 
a couple of minutes, they are done. Drain them carefully 
and add them to the hot cream, with salt and pepper to 
taste, and fill the pate shells garnishing with parsley. This 
fills six shells. 

Duck Pate 

Take the remains of a large roast duck that has already 
served as a meal and cut the meat from the rack in very 
fine pieces. Add to this a half saltspoon of pepper, a half 
teaspoon of salt, and a half saltspoon of mignonette pepper; 
put into a stewpan one onion cut in thin slices with a half 
pint of white stock, with four strips of lemon peel, five leaves 
of sweet basil and let all simmer gently for a quarter of 
an hour, then add the juice of a large orange and that 
of half a lemon and one glass of port wine. When it has 
boiled up strain and put it back into the saucepan, add the 
meat and two thinly sliced truffles, heat again, and when it 
reaches boiling point if the sauce seems too thin add a 
little browned flour mixed smoothly with a little water. 
Fill the p4te shells with the mixture and garnish with a 
spray of fresh cress. 

Tuna Fish and Pineapple Pate 

Free one can of tuna fish from all skin and bone and flake 
it ; grate one medium-sized sweet pineapple and add it to the 
fish. Take one cup of dry bread crumbs and fry them a 
delicate brown in butter, stirring them constantly so that 
they are evenly done ; drain them carefully and add them to 
the fish. Next make a good English brown sauce with a 
pound of round steak diced, one sliced onion, bunch of 
savory herbs, diced carrot, potato, two cloves, spray of 
parsley, and let all simmer until the goodness is all extracted 
from the meat; strain, then put back into the saucepan, 
and thicken with a little browned flour and butter mixed to 



Entrees 165 

paste. When the right consistency, add the fish and pine- 
apple with the crumbs, let all boil up once and then fill the 
pate shells with the mixture. Serve garnished with a little 
finely chopped red pepper. 

Tripe Creole Pates 

Wash and cut enough honeycomb tripe into small pieces 
to fill three cups, place it in a clean linen cloth, and wring 
the water out of it. Melt two tablespoons of butter and 
add one tablespoon of chopped onion, cook until slightly 
browned, then add two tablespoons of finely chopped green 
pepper and one half a chopped red pepper. Add one 
tablespoon of flour, one cup of red stock, a half cup of 
drained tomato juice, a tablespoon of Worcestershire sauce, 
six button mushrooms sliced, pepper, salt to taste, a table- 
spoon of chutney syrup, and let all boil for five minutes, then 
add the tripe and simmer gently for ten minutes more or 
until the tripe is done. Fill the pate shells and garnish 
each with a slice of fried tomato. 

Salad pate 

Free one heavy grapefruit from the white skin and break 
the pulp into pieces; wash, halve and stone enough white 
grapes to make two cups and add them to the grapefruit 
with a half cup of chopped pecan nuts and one cup of 
chopped pineapple; put the entire mixture into a white 
enamel strainer to drain and chill. Chop enough white 
celery to make one cup and cut one white lettuce heart 
into strips with the kitchen scissors. Have ready a cup of 
mayonnaise made with walnut oil, and just before serving 
toss the salad lightly in the mayonnaise and then fill the 
pate shells with it. Take a little of the mayonnaise and 
add to it a little whipped cream and put a spoonful of this 
on top of each pdte and sprinkle with a dash of paprika. 
This mixture should fill six p4te shells. Serve cold. 



I66 Entrees 

Cucumber and Liver Pate 

Take one pound of calves' liver, wash and boil it until 
very tender in fair water, then chop fine. Peel, quarter, and 
remove the seeds from three cucumbers, slice them then in 
medium slices, throw them into boiling water and keep it 
at boiling point for ten minutes, strain, and dry them with a 
soft cloth. Melt two ounces of butter and put the cucumbers 
into it, stirring them constantly until they are a good color, 
then pour over them a small cup of brown gravy and add 
a quarter saltspoon of pepper, a saltspoon of salt, and the 
juice of an onion, and simmer gently for ten minutes, then 
add a tablespoon of chutney syrup. Fry one small cup 
of bread crumbs in butter, drain, and add them to the 
liver with four thinly sliced truffles; now add the liver 
mixture to the sauce and heat all together, bringing them to 
boiling point. Fill the pat6 shells with the mixture, 
garnishing each with currant jelly. 

Pineapple P^tes 

Take two cups of preserved pineapple, drain it, and add 
to it half a cup of preserved ginger chopped and enough 
ginger syrup to moisten the mixture, then add one table- 
spoon each of finely powdered macaroon and chopped 
pecan nuts. Fill the pite shells with this mixture, heap 
them with whipped cream, place a tiny green preserved 
melon on the top. Serve cold. 

Banana Pates 

Take one cup of vanilla syrup and one cup of honey and 
melt them together ; take eight medium-sized bananas, cut 
them in thick slices, add them to the syrup with the juice 
of a lemon, the thinly pared rind, and four cloves; let all 
simmer together until the bananas are thoroughly done. 
When cooked let cool, then fill the p^t6 shells with the ba- 
nana and as much juice as it will hold, removing the cloves 



Entrees 167 

and lemon peel. Heap with whipped cream and garnish 
with a candied cherry. Serve cold. 

Plum Pite 

Halve and stone enough blue plums after washing them 
to allow four halves to a pate. Make a good vanilla syrup, 
then cook the plum halves in it until they are thoroughly 
done and the syrup has cooked down rich and heavy, add 
a half cup of blanched, coarsely chopped almonds and a 
tablespoon of blanched pistachio nuts and a tablespoon of 
stoned and chopped raisins. When cool fill the pates 
and heap them with whipped cream that has been colored 
a delicate green by a little breton coloring. This pate may 
be chilled or it may be served hot with the whipped cream 
added in either case at the last moment. Peaches may be 
used in the same way as the plums if they are better liked. 

Poached Eggs a la Reine 

Dice the white meat of a boiled chicken and put it into a 
rich cream sauce. Fill hot pate shells with the mixture 
and lay a poached egg on top of each, covering it with some 
of the cream sauce set aside for the purpose. Garnish 
with sprays of parsley and serve hot as soon as the egg is 
placed on the pate. 

Ham Patties in Aspic 

Chop just as fine as possible enough boiled ham to fill 
two cups; season to taste; add a tablespoon of Worcester- 
shire sauce, a tablespoon of chopped nutmeats, and one 
beaten egg to bind the mixture. Shape into patties, roll in 
heavy mayonnaise, cover with aspic, and garnish the top 
with a truffle. 

FRITTERS 

Fritters can be served as a vegetable or as a sweet course 
for luncheon, dinner, or supper, and they often serve a very 



1 68 Entrees 

convenient purpose. Whether they are sweet or plain the 
foundation batter is much the same. The fat in which they 
are to be fried must always be the very freshest and best 
that can be procured, and if it is to be used a second time it 
must be carefully strained through cheesecloth wrung out of 
hot water and laid inside the fine sieve. This insures the 
perfect cleanliness of the grease for a second using. It is a 
good idea if fritters are liked and used very often to keep 
a small lard pail with tight-fitting cover ready which may be 
freshly scalded to receive the left-over and strained grease. 

Of course the lard in which vegetable fritters have been 
fried cannot be used for frying sweet fritters, for it is sure 
to have become tainted with the vegetable flavor. The 
lard used for sweet fritters may, however, be used later for 
frying vegetables. 

The sweet fritters are best served, after ■ draining, in a 
napkin. The sauce that goes with them may be served in 
a little tureen. If the fritters are served as a garnish they 
are placed around the platter, while the vegetable fritters 
if served with a heavy sauce are placed upon a platter by 
themselves and prettily garnished. 

This foundation batter may be used for nearly all kinds of 
fritters with but slight variations: 

Plain Fritter Batter — One cup of flour, half a teaspoon of 
baking powder, quarter teaspoon of salt, two eggs, and one 
cup of milk. The dry ingredients should be sifted carefully 
together and the eggs beaten before they are added to the 
milk, then the whole beaten until it is very smooth. 

Vegetable Fritters 

Make the batter in the usual way. Take a small bottle 
of maccdoine of vegetables and drain them; add to them a 
half teaspoon of salt, a saltspoon of pepper, a teaspoon of 
sugar, a grated onion, teaspoon of finely chopped parsley, 
and toss them lightly in half a cup of whipped cream and stir 
all into the batter. Fry the fritters and serve them in a 



Entrees 169 

napkin garnished with lemon quarters and parsley. Serve 
with them fennel sauce, which is made of a half pint of 
melted butter and a tablespoon of carefully washed and 
chopped fresh fennel seed. Let the butter come to the 
boiling point, add the fennel, simmer for two minutes, and 
serve hot. 

For Clam and Oyster Fritters 

Steam open twenty-five clams, take from the shells, 
and chop fine. Take one cup of the clam juice and let It 
get cold. Make the fritter batter as above, using the cup 
of clam juice and a half cup of milk; after it is beaten smooth 
add the chopped clams, pepper, and salt, and fry the fritters 
in the usual way. 

Usually uncooked clams are put into the fritter batter, 
but this is a mistake, they should be steamed first, for 
otherwise they never get thoroughly cooked through and 
the fritter is not inviting. Possibly this is the reason it 
is not more popular. For oyster fritters take twenty-five 
oysters, strain them from their juice, let it come to boiling 
point, drop in the oysters, and let them boil up once, 
then remove and drain them. When cold chop them. 
Carefully strain a cup of the liquor they were boiled in and 
proceed in the same way as was done with the clam fritters. 
Serve them in a napkin and In a small tureen. Serve a little 
carefully melted butter with the juice of half a lemon, a 
dash of red pepper, and a teaspoon of finely chopped tarragon 
leaves added. 

Tuna Fish Fritters 

Take one can of tuna fish, flake it, and whip it light 
with the white of one stiffly beaten egg. Add to it a quarter 
saltspoon of pepper, a half saltspoon of salt, a half saltspoon 
of curry powder, and a teaspoon of Worcestershire sauce 
and beat it lightly through the batter, which is ready mixed, 
using two eggs as usual in it. Fry in the usual way and 
serve in a napkin with the following cucumber sauce: 



170 Entrees 

Peel, quarter, and remove the seeds from three cucumbers, 
cut them in small pieces, put them in a cloth, and squeeze 
the water out of them. Then saute them in two ounces 
of butter until they begin to brown, add a small cup of good 
brown sauce which has been highly seasoned, and boil 
together for eight minutes. Turn into a tureen and serve 
with the fritters. 

Sweetbread Fritters 

Parboil, blanch, and chop fine one pair of sweetbreads; 
add to them a small red pepper and half a cup of mush- 
rooms, also chopped fine, one small grated onion, and a 
tablespoon of chutney syrup; stir into the batter and fry. 
Serve with a horseradish sauce made as follows: Take 
four tablespoons of grated horseradish, one teaspoon of 
sugar, one of salt, and two of mixed English mustard, and 
half a teaspoon of pepper. Add enough tarragon vinegar 
to make the mixture the consistency of thick cream. When 
thoroughly mixed add four tablespoons of sweet cream, set 
into a double boiler and let it get hot, but do not allow it to 
boil. Serve at once with the fritters. 

Ginger Fritters 

Take one half cup of preserved ginger, chop it very fine, 
and add to it one cup of preserved mirabelles, add to the 
batter, and after frying serve a flavored syrup or a boiled 
pudding sauce with the fritters. For all fruit fritters a 
convenient sauce is made of a cup of sugar and a half cup of 
water. Melt and boil together for five minutes and flavor 
with a teaspoon of vanilla, pistachio, rose, almond, orange 
flower, or oil of clove flavoring. These may be varied with 
the different fruits used. 

Grapefruit Fritters 

Prepare the grapefruit the same as for salad, draining 
slightly if it is too juicy. Add to it six macaroons that have 



Entrees 171 

been powdered, dust with sugar, and add a teaspoon of 
vanilla. Mix well with the plain batter and fry delicately. 
Serve in a napkin with a syrup sauce flavored with pistachio 
or with the maple and walnut sauce so often used on ice 
cream. 

Spanish Fritters 

Make the batter in the usual way. Then open a small 
bottle of the ready mixed Spanish omelet filling. This is 
very highly seasoned, and the vegetables and peppers 
are all cut in the usual way. Add to this a half cup of 
grated pineapple, if at hand, or a half cup of apple sauce. 
Add to the batter and fry. Serve with a Russian mayon- 
naise made in this way. Add enough ketchup to the may- 
onnaise to color it pink, chop together two olives, a strip of 
red pepper, a few tarragon leaves, and one small gherkin 
pickle. Add this to the sauce with the juice of an onion. 
These fritters are even more hearty if served with a rich, 
smooth tomato sauce. 

Calves' Liver Fritters 

Take one pound of calves' liver and boil it until tender. 
Then remove and chop very fine. Add to it pepper, salt, 
two tablespoons of apple juice, the juice of an onion, and 
lighten it with the beaten whites of two eggs. Add the 
mixture to the batter and fry. Serve with the fritters one 
small tumbler of melted currant jelly. 

Beef Fritters 

Chop enough cold roast beef after freeing it from fat and 
gristle to fill a cup, add to it one grated onion, a teaspoon of 
chopped tarragon leaves, a teaspoon of mustard sauce, a tea- 
spoon of Worcestershire sauce, a quarter saltspoon of pepper, 
a saltspoon of salt, and whip it light with the white of one 
egg beaten stiff. Add it to the batter as quickly as it is 
light, mix thoroughly, and fry at once. 



172 Entrees 

Lobster Fritters 

Take enough cold boiled lobster to fill a cup, and cut it 
very fine. Add to it a half saltspoon of pepper, a saltspoon of 
salt, a teaspoon of melted butter, two teaspoons of chutney 
syrup, and add it to the batter. Fry in the usual way and 
serve a tartare sauce with the fritters or heavy mayonnaise 
to which a little whipped cream is added just before serving. 
Crab flakes or cold boiled shrimp may be used in the same 
way. 



'j^ 



ART OF CARVING 

For the man of family, where the real home table is still 
maintained and the joint or fowl is carved at table, it is an 
economic necessity that he understand every branch of the 
art. Where the carving is done in the kitchen, as in many 
modem households, the waste and shrinkage is infinitely 
greater than by the old-fashioned table service, and with the 
advanced price of living this is most disastrous to a not too 
plethoric pocketbook. 

The first requisite of the carver is a knowledge of the 
anatomy of the fowl or joint that he is about to dissect. 
The second is sharp and appropriate knives for the purpose 
and a platter in every way adequate in size for the contents. 
He may then proceed with fairly high hopes of success. 

The art in carving a turkey is to get as many fine slices 
from the breast as possible and to sever each joint at the 
proper point deftly and in the least time possible, so that the 
guests do not grow impatient and the other viands grow 
cold. 

Every good carver knows that the presence of the wish- 
bone is an obstacle in the cutting of perfect slices from the 
breast. By taking it out before the bird is cooked the 
carver can cut down through both light and dark meat in 
the same slice. To remove the bone slip a knife under each 
prong and cut upward to the point. Turn the bone back- 
ward and then cut out the point of the bone. It will be 
found that in this way scarcely a shred of meat is lost. If 
pulled downward the flesh will be torn. 

If the turkey has been properly trussed and stuffed and 
roasted on its breast instead of its back, so that all the 

173 



174 A.rt of Carving 

juices run into the white meat, it should present a plump 
and compact appearance when placed before the carver 
with its legs at his right hand. The carver places the 
fork firmly and securely across the top of the breastbone, 
so as to have complete control of the bird, and it should not 
be removed during the operation. He then severs the leg 
at the first joint; then deftly cuts out the second joint; then 
removes the wing at the shoulder joint and that leaves 
the entire side ready for slicing. After as many slices as 
possible have been removed from the breast, narrow slices 
from each side of the space left after the removal of the 
second joint will give enough dark meat to serve a little to 
each, with a spoonful of stuffing which may be released by 
slitting the apron which may have been sewed carefully 
to retain the mixture from falling untidily into the pan while 
roasting. 

If the sinews have been properly removed from the legs 
by the butcher or the home cook, the legs are proper to 
serve. This is done by making an incision at the knee 
joint and with a round skewer draw out the two large ten- 
dons, then open the joints back and ten more tendons are 
disclosed. Draw them carefully if not all as many as can 
be gotten and then the leg when cooked will be as desirable 
as any other part of the bird. 

The wing should be severed at the joint before serving, 
as it is a hard joint to manage on the plate. The meat may 
be cut from the second joint before serving or served as a 
joint, as the carver thinks best. Of course, removing the 
neck and turning in the skin with a spoonful of stuffing in 
French fashion makes the best looking bird when served and 
gives greater slicing facility. 

If both sides of the turkey are to be used at the meal the 
carver need not remove the fork, but simply turn the bird 
toward him and grasp the fork with the back of the hand 
uppermost. The larger roasted chickens and ducks are 
carved in practically the same manner, though the English 
method of carving the duck is to take as many slices from 



A.rt of Carving 175 

the breast as possible, carving upward from the wing joint 
before removing the wing, A tough fowl and an old goose 
are sad triers to a carver's patience and skill as well as to 
his temper, but, if the usual rules are followed, these obstacles 
may be overcome with practice and perseverance. 

Lamb Carving 

After poultry, perhaps lamb carving in its various phases 
is the next consideration in the list of carvers' difficulties. 
The leg is perhaps more often met with as a popular family 
joint than the saddle, loin, or shoulder; the forequarter is a 
bit more complicated and requires a little more thought and 
manipulation on the part of the carver. The leg, carefully 
roasted, should be placed upon the dish with the leg bone 
at the carver's left hand. Place the carving fork a little to 
the left of the center, over the bone, to hold the meat firmly; 
then carve down the center, first to the right then to the 
left, loosening the meat from the bone by a sideways motion 
of the knife. Sometimes the joint is served with the under 
side uppermost, so that the fine grained piece, known as the 
Pope's eye, may be easily found, but it is not a general way of 
serving. The forequarter is a little more difficult to man- 
age, for it is rather an art to separate the shoulder from the 
breast neatly so that the ribs may be readily reached. 

In pork carving, perhaps the greatest trial of the carver's 
skill is in carving the suckling pig, which is not as apt to be 
met with as the hams, both cured and fresh are. A few 
very simple directions may be sufficient. 

In carving the wee roast pig first cut off the head. Then 
the ham and next the shoulder facing the carver. Then 
remove the slice between the two portions removed which 
is part of the belly and this will enable the carver to reach 
the stuffing. The shoulder and ham may then be sliced 
as well as slices taken from the back. See in serving that 
each plate is supplied with a piece of lean and a piece of fat 
meat and a spoonful of dressing. 



176 Art of Carving 

Veal Joints 

Next are the popular veal joints, which, perhaps, are the 
least complicated of all. The shoulder is usually boned, 
then stuffed, so to slice it is no trick at all. The loin, if 
the butcher knows his business, has been divided so that 
the joints of the bones are easily fovind, and with each por- 
tion serve a bit of the kidney and kidney fat that lies under- 
neath this cut. The carving of the breast of veal is not 
dissimilar from that of the forequarter of lamb, the first 
thing being to remove the shoulder to reveal the ribs. The 
calf's head is rarely served on American tables whole, but is 
usually in soup or mode dishes. 

In beef roasts and joints the complications are not 
serious for the inexperienced carver. He must develop his 
quick intuition and learn to dodge skewers. If they are 
the old wooden variety they are hard to pull out, but the 
silver or steel ones are easily removed with the fork or the 
thumb and first finger of the right hand. A rolled roast is 
the rib roast with the ribs removed and the meat rolled, 
tied, and skewered in place. The fat is scored so as to let 
the meat roll properly, and it is simply carved by slicing 
across the top from right to left, holding it firmly with the 
carving fork well placed low on the left side. 

The standing rib roast is carved by passing the knife 
slowly across the heavy end to free the meat from the ribs 
from right to left, then it is ready to slice thinly. If the 
roast is a sirloin, it is a good idea for the carver to turn the 
roast over and remove the under cut so as to serve a slice 
with each slice of the upper cut. 



MEATS 

In purchasing meat for the table, one should be sure, if 
it is beef, that it is bright red in color and well streaked 
with fat. Veal should be pink; mutton, a dullish red 
and streaked with fat; lamb, dark pink; and pork, pale 
pink. The fat and suet of beef should be just off the white, 
rather a very faint cream. The fats of the other meats 
should be white, although that of mutton inclines to be 
yellowish. 

The coarser and therefore cheaper cuts of meat have the 
same nutritive value as the choicer and more expensive 
cuts. However, the flavor and tenderness of the latter 
doubtless have a greater effect in stimulating the flow of 
saliva and other digestive juices. 

Beef and mutton are at their best during the winter 
months but are used all year around. Veal and lamb are 
at their best in spring. Venison, when it is to be had, is 
good after the first frost in fall. The rabbit season lasts 
from November to February. Nearly all the game birds 
are at their best around the holidays. Turkeys and capons 
are good from Thanksgiving time to very early spring. 
Ducklings are the finest from late August to November. 

BEEF 

Only the usual cuts of beef that the market affords will 
be spoken of herein as they are most familiar to the ordinary 
housekeeper and if an intimate knowledge of them is 
acquired it will mean an understanding of their best uses 
in reducing the cost of living. If one is in doubt as to just 
12 177 



178 Meats 

what pieces of meat are the best and is unfamiliar with their 
appearance, an hour spent in the shop of a good butcher 
who carries a large stock will be well spent, and they are 
usually very glad to answer intelligent questions. 

In steaks the flat or double-boned sirloin, hip bone sirloin, 
porterhouse, delmonico, top round, flank, chuck, and pin 
bone are the best known. The first four are for broiling, 
the top round and flank though often broiled are better 
stuffed, rolled, and roasted. The chuck and pin bone are 
good in stews or meat pies. Of all the steaks the porter- 
house is the best for planking. 

For roasting there are three prime rib roasts, while the 
chuck roast is the largest and most economical. The tender- 
loin is usually larded and served as a filet of beef. The 
various pieces used for corning are the rump, brisket, 
navel, and plate. 

The usual methods of cooking beef are to roast, boil, 
broil, fry, braise, and pot roast it. The meat loses in weight 
in all processes but the most so in boiling. Grilling is 
cooking before the fire on a spit or in an open oven, the 
method being more popular in England than in America, 
though large hotels and restaurants are cooking in this 
way constantly; but few private homes being equipped 
with facilities for so doing. 

Larding 

In what is so-called high-class cookery there is nothing 
more important than to know how to lard a fowl or a roast 
properly, as oftentimes upon the success of the operation 
depends the ultimate tenderness of the meat. 

The larding needles come in sets with all sizes needed for 
all purposes, and require only to be thoroughly cleansed 
after using to be always in readiness. 

The regular larding pork is very deep and has a firm rind. 
Very sharp knives are required to prepare it without 
•mangling it. It should be cut in strips an eighth of an inch 



Meats 179 

square, and from two to ten inches long, according to the 
purpose for which it is to be used. 

Lay the piece of meat to be larded on a napkin on the 
table where it may be held securely in place with the left 
hand, while the right hand uses the needle. Force the 
pork strips into the end of the needle and draw them 
through the meat one inch apart. If one wishes to have a 
very fancy roast strips of macaroni may be drawn through 
the meat and strips of carrot of the same size ; then when the 
meat is done the slices will have the tiny white rings and 
red cubes all through them. In larding birds use the short 
needles and smaller pieces of pork, being sure to lard each 
side of the backbone. Tiny birds too small to lard should 
be folded in two slices of the pork and tied with kitchen tape. 

A folding wooden stool to use when basting meat in the 
oven is quite a comfort in the kitchen. 

Roast Beef 

Place the piece of beef to be roasted on a low rack, putting 
a quarter of a cup of water in the dripping pan below. Put 
in a hot oven and after cooking fifteen minutes slightly 
reduce the heat. Allow fifteen minutes to each pound. 
Baste often and add salt and pepper just before the meat is 
done. If roasted in a gauze-door range the cooking will be 
perfectly done and without danger of burning. But a 
gas or electric oven will have to be closely watched. 

Boiled Beef 

For boiling use the brisket, put it over the fire in boiling 
water, allowing it fifteen minutes to the pound in cooking. 
Let cook evenly and a half hour before it is done add the 
seasoning. The beef is nice served with horseradish sauce, 
or cold sliced with any sauce liked. 

Pot Roast 

A most excellent pot roast larded with macaroni is pre- 
pared in the following way : — After larding, lay on a white 



i8o Meats 

kitchen plate with a small piece of suet in the bottom of it. 
Cover with a thinly sliced onion, a bunch of soup greens 
washed and cut fine, a cup of vinegar and two of cold water, 
a bay leaf, a clove, six raisins, three thin slices of lemon, a 
teaspoon of salt, a saltspoon of pepper, and a tablespoon of 
sugar. Simmer and slowly boil for four hours or until the 
meat is tender, then remove the meat, free it from all vege- 
tables, strain the gravy, thicken it as much as it needs to 
be, add six fresh raisins, and serve hot in a tureen. Garnish 
the meat with fresh watercress and serve mashed potatoes 
so that the gravy may be fully enjoyed. 

Sour Roast 

Take four pounds of top or bottom round beef, run 
through with a larding needle a dozen stems of macaroni, 
lay on the grating in pot on a slice of larding pork. Slice 
one large onion thin, one carrot, one potato, and add, with 
a bunch of parsley, two stalks of finely cut celery, six raisins, 
three cloves, one bay leaf, and a half a bud of garlic. Just 
cover with cold water and a cup of vinegar, cover closely 
and boil slowly three or four hours; then remove the meat, 
strain the gravy, then thicken it to the consistency of honey, 
add three or four fresh cloves and a dozen seeded raisins, 
pepper, salt, and a dash of sugar. Serve in a tureen with 
the meat. 

Corned Beef 

Select a piece which has not been in corn more than 
four or five days, wash it carefully, and put it on to boil 
in cold clear water. When it has boiled half an hour 
throw off the water and have a teakettle of hot water 
ready to turn right over it. Then let it boil three or four 
hours, or until it is perfectly tender. To make sure that 
you get just the sort of beef that will cut up to the best 
advantage, it is a good idea for the housewife to select it 
herself, and then let the butcher corn it for her. Three to 



Meats l8l 

five days is long enough for the meat to corn. When the 
meat is done allow it to partially cool in the water. 

Coarse Hash 

Cut enough of the beef into small pieces to make a cup 
and a half of meat ; cut two boiled potatoes, three medium- 
sized cold boiled beets, and one medium-sized yellow turnip 
into small pieces and add them to the meat. Take two 
slices of fat pickled pork, try it out in a saucepan, remove the 
rinds, and turn into the hash. Add a saltspoon of pepper, a 
very little salt, a teaspoon of sugar, and half a cup of hot 
water. Cover the pan and let the hash cook slowly until 
all the moisture has been taken up, leaving the hash soft 
and well cooked. This makes the original New England 
"coarse hash." 

Fine Hash 

For the fine hash, made possibly from the last of the 
meat, take enough cold boiled potatoes chopped to make 
two cups, and one cup of the chopped corned beef. Put a 
lump of butter into the frying pan and half a cup of water. 
Add the hash, seasoning it with salt, pepper, and a teaspoon 
of sugar, and cover tightly. Cook it until it is just as dry or 
moist as is liked. A good addition to this hash is a cup of 
apple sauce; or, if one likes it better, a cup of very finely 
chopped cold boiled beets. 

Beef Loaf 

For the loaf take three pounds of choj)ped raw beef, one 
quarter of a pound of minced salt pork, one cupful of cracker 
dust, two teaspoons of salt, one of pepper, the juice of one 
onion, a tablespoon of Worcestershire sauce, one tart apple 
chopped very fine with one stalk of celery, and two well 
beaten eggs. Mold together and work in two tablespoons of 
melted butter; when thoroughly mixed, pack a well buttered 



i82 Meats 

mold, cover closely, and place in a roasting pan of boiling 
water. Cook in a steady oven for two hours, turn onto a 
hot platter, garnish with cress, and serve with a brown 
gravy. 

Rump of Beef a la Mode 

Take six pounds of beef from the rump ; lard it well with 
salt pork. Season with salt, pepper, minced parsley, and a 
dash of nutmeg. Place in an earthen bowl with sliced 
carrots and onions and pour over it one half pint of brandy. 
Let it marinate in a cool place for one day, turning it 
over frequently. Then drain and wipe the surface dry, 
set it in a saucepan or P. & M. cooker with some fat and 
roast brown; then add a pint of good white wine, sufficient 
beef broth to cover the meat, two calf's feet that have been 
split and blanched, and a few bones. Season with a bunch of 
parsley tied with celery tops, a saltspoon each of pepper, 
salt, and thyme, a clove of garlic, two onions, two carrots, 
and the brandy which was left in the bowl. Let boil five 
minutes, then cover tightly and set in the oven to simmer 
two hours. Take out the meat and drain it, and strain the 
gravy. When nearly cold cut into slices and arrange on an 
oval dish with the slices overlapping. Place around the 
edge braised carrots, glazed onions, and some French peas; 
then pour the strained gravy over all and put in ice-box 
to chill until the gravy sets in jelly. Garnish with cress 
and olive rings. 

Beef Olives 

Take two pounds of rump steak sliced rather thin and 
cut in six or seven pieces, brush over with egg, roll in a 
mixture of pepper, salt, savory herbs, minced onion, a little 
minced celery, a few fine bread crumbs, and butter and 
fasten with a small skewer. 

Lay olives in a stewpan where they fit close together, so 
as to keep their shape, covering each with a slice of bacon; 



Meats 183 

turn over them a pint of well seasoned stock, cover closely, 
stew very gently for two hours, remove, and place on the 
platter. Add a little thickening to the gravy, season it a 
little higher, boil, turn over the olives, and garnish with 
parsley. 

Filet Marine 

Cut out the filet from the roast of beef, dust with salt 
and pepper, squeeze the juice from one onion over it, add a 
tablespoon of tarragon vinegar and two of best sweet 
oil, and put it in the oven. Baste it carefully and serve 
with fried potatoes. 

Casserole Roast 

Two pounds round steak, cut into small pieces, one can of 
peas, one half can of tomatoes, one carrot sliced, one onion 
sliced, four cloves, one quarter cup of well soaked tapioca, 
one quarter cup of soft bread crumbs, salt and pepper to 
taste. 

' Cover with water and cook in casserole in the oven 
three hours, covered closely. 

Kidney Stew 

Skin and parboil two kidneys, changing the water fre- 
quently. When tender remove the kidneys and cut them 
into quarters and lay them in a glass of white wine (or Tar- 
ragon vinegar) with one clove and three raisins. Prepare a 
brown sauce from one pound of beef cut fine, a soup bunch, 
and water enough to cover. Simmer gently one hour ; strain, 
thicken with butter and flour creamed, season, and add the 
kidneys and the wine. Boil up and serve poured over dry 
toast sippets for a breakfast dish. 

"Bubble and Squeak" 

Fry in butter a few thin slices of cold boiled beef, taking 
care not to dry them up. Lay them on a hot platter and 



184 Meats 

cover them with the following sauce: Have boiled very- 
tender and chopped one Savoy cabbage and one quart of 
Brussels sprouts; drain them after they are chopped. Slice 
an onion very thin and put in a frying pan with butter, 
sprinkle with pepper and salt, and when it begins to brown 
put in the chopped greens. Heat all very hot, dust with 
pepper, salt, and a teaspoon of powdered sugar, and when 
the onion is thoroughly done turn all over the beef and 
serve. 

Brown Stew 

Take two pounds of chuck meat and cut it In small pieces, 
being careful to cut it across the grain so it v/ill be tender 
and not stringy. Flour each piece and have ready in a 
frying pan a little hot fat. Put in the meat and brown the 
pieces quickly on both sides, then remove them and put 
them into the stewpan. Mix two tablespoons of flour with a 
cup and a half of water and turn it into the fat the meat 
was browned in and let it slightly thicken, then pour it over 
the meat with a cup of tomato juice, a saltspoon each of 
pepper and salt, a sliced onion, and a diced carrot. Bring 
to boiling point, then simmer, keeping the gravy just deep 
enough to cover the meat. Fifteen minutes before the 
stew is to be served drop in the dumplings, season, and 
• cover tightly. Dumplings for the stew are quick ones. 

To mix the dumpling batter sift two cups of flour with 
two level teaspoons of baking powder, one teaspoon of salt, 
and a cup of sweet milk. Mix thoroughly and drop by 
tablespoons into the boiling liquid, dipping the tablespoon 
into the hot liquid often, as the heat makes the batter drop 
from the spoon more quickly. The dumplings never 
sink, but float upon the surface. The hot liquid cooks the 
lower half while the upper half is practically steam cooked. 
This is why the cover should not be raised until five minutes 
have passed. It is then safe to raise the cover and take 
out one dumpling to test, without danger of making the 
others heavy. 



Meats 185 

To test the dumpling tear it apart with two forks. If it 
has a light, spongy texture with no dough spot in the .center, 
it is done and the rest should be removed at once. 

Smoked Tongue 

Put a smoked tongue to soak in cold water over night; 
change the water once. In the morning put it on in cold 
water and throw in a bunch of sweet herbs. Boil evenly 
four to four and a half hours, or until tender, then drain 
and skin and trim it for table use. If it is to be served 
hot it may be sliced and the slices placed on panned spinach. 

Baked Heart 

Put a beef heart to soak in warm water for two hours. 
Wipe it dry and after cutting open the lobes stuff the heart 
with savory forcemeat, tie the heart with kitchen tape, and 
bake in covered roaster two hours, basting often. Serve 
the dish gravy, slightly thickened, and currant jelly with 
the heart. 

Hamburg Steak 

Take a pound and a half of round steak and run it twice 
through the meat chopper and add to it two grated onions, 
a half teaspoon of salt and a saltspoon of pepper, and a 
tablespoon of finely chopped suet. Form into cakes or 
pats and broil over a good fire. Serve on a hot dish with a 
little lump of butter on top of each. 

Beef Croquettes 

Chop very fine the left-over ends of steak or roast beef, 
add to it a grated onion, a tablespoon of finely chopped 
celery, a half cup of bread crumbs, one beaten egg, a half 
teaspoon of salt and a saltspoon of pepper, two tablespoons 
of ketchup, one of Worcestershire sauce, and just enough 
stock to enable the mixture to be molded into croquettes. 



i86 Meats 

Roll in egg and crumbs and fry in hot fat. Drain and 
serve with broiled potatoes and garnish with parsley 

Tripe 

Fine grain or honeycomb tripe may be washed, dried, 
and broiled on a buttered gridiron, fried in butter, stewed in 
cream or in a brown mushroom sauce, or cooked in casserole. 
If liked it is easily digested and nourishing. To cook it in a 
casserole cut it in pieces, add to it a cup of potato balls 
cut with the cutter, a sliced onion, a diced carrot, and a 
half cup of peas. Put in dish with a cup of brown sauce, 
half gill of butter, a quarter saltspoon of pepper, and a 
saltspoon of salt. Serve boiled rice with the tripe. 

Liver 

Beef liver is occasionally used by being boiled, then 
chopped fine and made into croquettes highly seasoned. 
But calf's liver is preferred. 

Swiss Steak 

Take a piece of top round steak, dust it with pepper, salt, 
and paprika, dredge it on both sides with flour, then put it 
into a hot frying pan with enough hot fat in it to cover the 
bottom. Cover the pan and let the steak cook. When 
done through, pour over it a cup of thin tomato sauce, add 
the juice of an onion and a half bud of garlic. Cover and 
simmer gently for half an hour. Serve with the gravy 
turned over it, on a hot platter, with a border of mashed 
potato around the edge. 

Beefsteak Pie 

Cut three pounds of rump steak into small pieces two 
inches square. Arrange in layers with seasoning, salt, 
pepper, thin slices of carrot, butter, and the juice of an 



Meats 187 

onion. Half fill the pie with water and cross two thin 
slices of bacon on top. Leave a hole in the crust and bake 
one and a half hours. 

Cooking and Serving of Steak 

Almost everyone likes and eats steak if it is properly- 
cooked and invitingly served. As to the choicest cuts, that 
depends on the amount one uses, the price per pound one 
feels ready to pay, and the size and location of the butcher 
shop from which it is purchased. The small shops do not 
carry all that the big markets do nor can they sell at their 
prices. 

There are two positive points to observe In the production 
of a successful steak dish; first, the steak must be the best 
of its kind, and second, the bed of coals must be perfect 
for its broiling. If gas has to be used, then the flames must 
be regulated carefully and the broiler hot before the steak 
goes in, the range door must be left open during the broiling, 
and the steak must not be near enough to the flame to catch 
fire. When the steak is to be served plain, take it from 
the broiler, place it on a hot platter, add pepper, salt, and a 
generous amount of good butter. If broiled by gas under 
or over the flame, then turn the juice caught in the drip 
cup or pan over the meat also, and garnish with parsley. 

The so-called "three minute" steaks are cut from the 
tenderloin about a half inch thick and are broiled three 
minutes over a perfect fire, then are buttered and seasoned, 
garnished with fresh cress, and sent to table on a very hot 
covered platter. 

For the favorite "planked steak" the hardwood plank 
must be heated as hot as possible before the steak is put 
onto it. When it is done, the macedoine vegetables may be 
arranged around it, the mashed potato put through a rose 
tube in the pastry bag and laid on the edge, then the plank 
should be placed in a hot oven to brown the potato. Serve 
on the plank at once. No extra garnish is required for 
this dish. 



i88 Meats 

There are several ways of cooking a steak in onions; this 
perhaps is one of the best. Pare and shoe thin the desired 
amount of onions. Melt a generous lump of butter in the 
frying pan and when hot put in the onions, cover, and when 
they begin to cook shake them often so they do not burn. 
Add pepper, salt, and a teaspoon of sugar ; when they begin 
to brown lay your steak on top, cover, and shake gently 
but continually, turn the steak in five minutes, butter and 
sprinkle with a little pepper and salt, then cover again and 
cook another five minutes or less according to the thickness 
of the steak. Turn right over onto a hot platter with the 
onions on top and garnish with toast sippets and parsley. 
"Hamburg" steak is cooked in the same way, only it does 
not require turning, as it cooks through quicker on account 
of having been chopped. 

"Steak with oysters" is a favorite dish in many localities 
and is good if carefully prepared. Broil the steak in the 
usual way, but do not season it. Place it on a hot platter 
that will stand the oven. Have ready one quart of oysters 
carefully wiped and all pieces of shell removed, cover the 
steak with the oysters, dot the top with plenty of little 
lumps of butter, salt and pepper, and put it into a hot oven, 
letting it stay until the edges of the oysters curl. Then 
serve at once, garnishing with toast sippets and parsley. 

Steak a la Creole 

Select a nice thick porterhouse steak to broil ; fry in butter 
enough thinly sliced Spanish onions to spread a layer over 
the steak after it has been broiled. Take a cup and a half 
of strained tomato juice, add one tablespoon of Worcester- 
shire sauce, a tablespoon of chutney syrup, pepper, salt, 
and two tablespoons of finely minced cold boiled ham and a 
tablespoon of butter. Put into a saucepan and when it 
has cooked two or three minutes thicken it with cornstarch 
to the consistency of heavy cream. Put the broiled steak 
onto a hot platter, spread the onions over the top, then 



Meats 189 

pour over it the sauce; garnish with sprays of watercress 
and stuffed baked red peppers. 

Steak en Casserole 

Cut two pounds of tender round steak into two-inch- 
square pieces. Butter a casserole dish and lay in the 
center a layer of the steak dusted with flour, then a layer of 
thickly sliced potato dusted with pepper and salt, then the 
meat, and so on until the meat is all in; then turn over it a 
gill of melted butter and a teaspoon of chopped parsley. 
At the side of the meat place a can of French peas that have 
been drained, on the other side some little silver-skinned 
onions; add a cup and a half of rich red stock and after 
covering the dish place it in the oven to cook. The length 
of time it takes to cook must be judged by the oven, but 
usually from one hour to one and a half is sufficient. 

Steak with Mushrooms 

For this dish the steak is broiled in the usual way and 
put on a hot platter ready for the sauce. To make the 
sauce, saute, after draining, one can of button mushrooms; 
have ready two cups of English brown sauce well seasoned, 
add the mushrooms to it, and when the steak is ready turn 
the sauce over it. If fresh mushrooms are to be had, fry 
them in butter, add pepper, salt, and the juice of an onion 
to them, and turn them over the steak. 

Himgarian Goulash 

Select a small shoulder of beef and have it cut into inch 
squares, add to it one quarter of the amount of chopped 
onions, season with a level tablespoon of salt, a teaspoon of 
pepper, and a saltspoon of Hungarian paprika; mix well, 
cover the saucepan and set it in the oven. When done 
tender add three cups of raw, diced potatoes; continue 
cooking and when the potatoes are done the goulash is 



IQO Meats 

ready to serve. No water is added as the juice of the 
meat makes sufficient sauce. This should serve ten people. 

VEAL 

The carcass of the calf usually comes to market with 
the skin on, the pluck left in, the head and feet removed. 
When ready to use it is skinned and divided into quarters. 
The leg is cut off just below the hip joint for roasting pur- 
poses. Cutlets are taken from the end of the leg or a thick 
piece may be taken instead for a filet. The knuckle left 
after the leg is cut up is used for white soup stock. The 
rump piece is known as the pin bone roast, though in many 
instances it is cut into chops, a matter the butcher decides 
with regard to his particular trade. The shoulder is excel- 
lent boned and roasted, the blades and small bones going 
into the stock pot. The neck rack is good for stewing meat. 
The calf's liver is the most delicate in market, especially 
if it is from a milk-fed calf, and contains the least amount 
of uric acid. The sweetbreads are another delicacy from 
the calf, and those considered the finest are the so-called 
round heart breads, the throat breads being longer, thinner, 
and having more fibrous waste. They are the thymus 
and thyroid glands; the pancreas or stomach breads are 
seldom used but are really the true sweetbreads. The law is 
strict regarding the selling of veal and only that from a calf 
around five weeks' old is permitted, that under three weeks 
being known as "bob" veal, and it is against the law to 
have it on sale. 

Roast Filet of Veal 

Select a nice filet of veal the size required, have the bone 
removed, raise the skin from the meat, and put under the 
flap a nice savory forcemeat. Skewer and bind the veal 
in a round form, dust lightly with a little pepper and salt, 
and dredge with a little flour. Place it in a roasting pan 
and cook. A six-pound filet will take about two hours to 



Meats 191 

cook. Baste often and dish the filet, turning over the top 
a half gill of melted butter. Garnish with fresh cress and 
lemon quarters, and place a little cold boiled sliced ham on 
either side of the platter. 

Veal Cutlets 

Veal cutlets may be delicately broiled and served dressed 
with butter, pepper, and salt ; or they may be fried and 
served with any sauce that is liked ; or they may be spread 
thinly with a savory dressing, rolled, dusted with pepper 
and salt, placed in a roasting pan with a cup of rich stock, 
and roasted for three quarters of an hour in a medium 
oven, or longer if the meat does not seem done. The 
gravy may be thickened and seasoned to taste with a half 
cup of mushrooms, that have been sauted in butter, added. 

Boiled Calf's Head 

Have the head split and thoroughly cleaned. Remove 
the brains and place them, with the head, in warm water to 
blanch for one hour. Remove the head and put it in a 
stewpan with sufficient cold water to cover it. When it 
begins to boil add a teaspoon of salt. Add to the water 
the juice of an onion, or a bud of garlic, six raisins, a bay 
leaf, a blade of mace, and a stalk of celery. Let cook until 
the head is perfectly tender. Boil the brains for thirty 
minutes, drain, and chop them fine; add to them a half 
gill of melted butter, a teaspoon of chopped parsley, a 
saltspoon of pepper, and a half teaspoon of salt. Take 
up the head, skin the tongue and place it in the center of 
the platter, turn over it the brain sauce. Remove the 
meat in large pieces from the head, lay the pieces around 
the platter, placing a piece of fried bacon on top of each. 

Calf's Liver 

Calf's liver may be sliced, washed, dried, and broiled on 
a well greased gridiron, then dressed with pepper, salt, and 



192 Meats 

butter; it may be fried with bacon, or it may be smothered 
in a brown sauce with fine herbs. Again, it may be 
boiled until tender, then chopped very fine, and be sea- 
soned with a tablespoon of melted butter, a saltspoon of 
pepper, and a half teaspoon of salt; served on slices of 
toast with a teaspoon of currant jelly on top of each 
portion. 

Sweetbreads 

In nearly all ways of cooking sweetbreads they are al- 
lowed to stand in warm water for a few minutes to draw out 
the blood and to improve their color; they are then plunged 
into slightly salted boiling water and allowed to boil evenly 
for fifteen minutes, then drained and set aside to cool. They 
may then be broiled after brushing over with butter; or 
they may be fried delicatel}^ and served garnished with 
toast sippets and parsley; or may be put into a Newburg 
sauce, or any of the other fancy sauces desired. They also 
combine well in a great many of the so-called made dishes, 
and are used in salads. 

Veal and Ham Pie 

Cut two pounds of veal cutlet into small pieces and put a 
layer in the bottom of the dish. Sprinkle over them a 
mixture of pepper, salt, a dash of nutmeg, two tablespoons 
of savory herbs, a strip of lemon peel finely chopped, and the 
yolks of two hard boiled eggs. Cut two pounds of boiled 
ham very fine and add in alternate layers until the dish is 
full, the top layer to be of ham. Add a half pint of water 
and the top crust and bake in a fair oven from one to one 
and a half hours. When it is removed from the oven pour 
in through a funnel at the top a pint of rich hot stock 
sufficiently rich to jell when it is cold. This pie may be 
made even more toothsome by the addition of mushrooms, 
sweetbreads, and oysters. 



Meats 193 

Hood of Tripe Roasted 

The hood can only be gotten from a butcher who makes 
a specialty of tripe. Stuff the hood with a good savory 
stuffing, fold the curtain of the hood over the top, and sew 
up the opening. Roast one hour in a roasting pan that is 
covered, basting with well seasoned white stock. Remove 
the cover, brown the roast, and season and thicken the dish 
gravy and pour over it. Garnish with fried sliced apple 
and toast sippets. 

Polish Chops 

It is seldom that we meet with recipes from Poland, but 
like all other nations the Poles have their favorite dishes 
and this is one of the unusual ones. Select as many loin 
veal chops as are needed to serve one to a portion. Fry 
them quickly in fat in a hot frying pan. When done 
remove and drain. Have ready two onions chopped fine 
with a tablespoon of parsley, and a quarter of a pound of 
calf's liver chopped with four slices of bacon; mix all to- 
gether; season, adding a little dusting of sweet herbs, and 
spread one side of the chops with the mixture. Dot each 
with little lumps of butter, put them in a buttered baking 
pan, and turn around them a cup of heavy stock. Let them 
cook in the oven until the dressing mixture is done, basting 
often. Remove to a hot platter and turn the gravy over 
them. 

Boiled Tongue 

Soak the tongue over night and boil for four hours. 
When slightly cool skin and trim and it is ready for use. 
To serve with the cold boiled tongue, which is thinly sliced 
or served whole in aspic and then carved at table, the 
Violette mustard which comes all prepared will be found 
delicious. 



194 Meats 

Egyptian Meat Pie 

Line a deep pie dish with good crust. Chop fairly fine a 
half pound of calf's liver and a half pound of fresh pork. 
Add a half can of mushrooms, cut in pieces, one grated 
onion, and a chopped pepper. Fill the pie and pour over 
all a half gill of melted butter, a tablespoon of chutney 
syrup, one tablespoon of tomato ketchup, and, over the top, 
a very light dredging of flour. Put on the top crust and 
bake from thirty to forty minutes in a medium oven. 

Calf's Liver Larded and Roasted 

Take a fresh milk liver and lard it with fat bacon. Put 
it into a pickle of vinegar, sliced onion, thyme, parsley, 
bay leaf, half a bud of garlic, salt, and pepper. Let it 
stand for twenty-four hours, drain, and place in buttered 
roasting pan. Baste frequently with the strained pickle 
juice. When done place on platter and cover with sauce 
piquante, made as follows : Put into a saucepan two ounces 
of butter, a sliced carrot, and six sliced shalots. Add a 
bunch of savory herbs, half a bay leaf, pepper, salt, and 
a thin slice of lean ham. Let simmer until they form a 
brown glaze, then add four tablespoons of vinegar and 
half a pint of good stock, with a lump of sugar. Simmer 
gently for half an hour, skim off fat, strain, and when very 
hot serve with the liver. Garnish with sliced lemon and 
fried parsley. 

Bulgarian Chops 

Select good-sized veal chops, season them with pepper 
and salt, and fry them quickly (but not hard) on both sides. 
Remove from the pan, lay them in a buttered baking pan, 
and sprinkle over them this mixture: One onion, one 
pepper, two slices of bacon, and a half pound of boiled 
tongue, all chopped fine; turn over all a cup of stock and 
sprinkle with a little chopped parsley. Cook in the oven, 



Meats 195 

basting often with the dish gravy. Serve on a hot platter, 
with a border of boiled rice, and turn the gravy over the rice. 

Mushrooms and Sweetbreads 

Line a deep pie dish with a good puff paste. Parboil, 
trim, and dice one pair of sweetbreads, make a rich cream 
sauce, not too thick, put in the sweetbreads; then slice one 
cold boiled egg and four truffles, adding the juice of an 
onion and a tablespoon of mushroom ketchup. While 
this is cooling prepare a half pound of mushrooms, leaving 
the flaps whole and washing and slicing the stems thin. 
Turn the mixture into the pie crust, not using too much of 
the cream ; dip the mushrooms in melted butter, pepper, and 
salt and pack them in, using quite a number, as they shrink. 
Add the rest of the sauce if there is room, put on the upper 
crust, and bake like any ordinary pie. Serve hot with any 
roast meat dish, cutting in strips and squares rather than in 
wedge-shaped pieces like a dessert pie. 

Cutlet en Casserole 

Take a medium cutlet, cut with a sharp knife into three- 
inch squares, and place them in a casserole dish. Cut 
with a scoop small round potato, carrot, and parsnip balls, a 
cup and a half in all, and pare a cup of button onions; add 
these to the cutlet with one cup of red stock, pepper, salt, a 
dash of mignonette pepper, and a tablespoon of Worcester- 
shire sauce. Take one tablespoon of rice flour and mix it 
smooth with a little water and add to the gravy, putting in 
last a half gill of melted butter. Cook in a medium oven 
an hour to an hour and a half, or until the meat is done. 

JeUied Calf's Head 

Boil a calf's head, after having removed the brains for 
use in fritters and the tongue to boil; dice and serve the 
tongue in tomato dressing for a luncheon dish, and add 
a bunch of herbs, two onions, a carrot, parsley, a strip of 



196 Meats 

lemon peel, pepper, and salt to flavor the same; the head 
boil until the meat pulls from the bones; then take the 
meat and let the rest boil down a third; add a wine- 
glass of sherry and a teaspoon of gelatine dissolved in 
a little cold water; strain and add to the mold, where the 
meat has been cut in pieces, cold boiled egg sliced through 
it, and several olives cut from the stones in curls; fill the 
mold and stand away to cool and harden; serve garnished 
with white lettuce leaves and tartare sauce. 

Veal Croquettes 

Mince the veal that is to be used very fine. Mix half a 
cup of milk with one teaspoon of flour, a piece of butter 
the size of an egg; cook until it thickens, then add the meat 
to it and roll into balls. Dip them in a beaten egg with a 
little milk stirred in, roll them in browned bread crumbs, and 
fry in hot lard. Drain on blotting paper and serve gar- 
nished with parsley. 

MUTTON AND LAMB 

Mutton and lamb come to our city markets dressed much 
the same way as beef — the carcass is divided into sides by 
splitting down the backbone, after the "haslet" has been 
removed. The fore and hind quarters are then divided 
just behind the ribs. The cuts of mutton and lamb are just 
the same, the leg, the loin, the rack, consisting of the ribs 
behind the shoulder, the fore quarter or chuck which con- 
tains four ribs and the breast. The hind quarters of both 
mutton and lamb are used for roasting as are the fore 
quarters, especially those of so-called spring lamb. The 
leg cut just before the hip bone is used in lamb for roasting, 
and in mutton for boiling and is often stuffed for roasting 
after the bone has been removed. In selecting the lamb 
chops those designated as French chops are most delicate 
and costly. Loin chops are cheaper, are subject to less 
waste, are tender, and of just as good flavor. Shoulder 



Meats 197 

chops are to be had occasionally when the butcher has not 
been able to sell the shoulder and meat under it for a roast 
but as he usually does they are not to be had often. These 
chops are known as round bone and blade chops, the former 
being usually the most tender. The breast and flank of 
mutton are used for stew, and the breast of lamb for stewing 
and braising. The necks of both mutton and lamb are 
used for stews and broths. When a saddle of mutton is 
required it must be taken from a carcass that has not been 
split down the back and usually it means a special order. 

Boiled Leg of Mutton 

Select a good, heavy leg of mutton, have the butcher cut 
and scrape back the meat about four inches from the shank 
end and skewer it in place; he is also to joint and take out the 
end bone — this leaves a more compact leg, better for carv- 
ing. Wash and wipe the joint and plunge it into boiling 
water enough to cover it, let it boil rapidly for five minutes, 
then draw it back and let it cook evenly from two to three 
hours according to the size of the joint. Skim the water and 
add after it has cooked two hours a teaspoon of salt, a salt- 
spoon of pepper, a half teaspoon of celery salt, and the juice 
of an onion. When done serve garnished with parsley, and 
have a good caper sauce in the sauce-boat. 

When the leg is stuffed and roasted, after the bone is 
taken out, the stuffing to use is a savory forcemeat stuffing 
made of a pint of bread crumbs, one grated onion, a salt- 
spoon of pepper, a tablespoon of chopped tarragon leaves, a 
level teaspoon of salt, a half cup of pecan nuts ground, a 
tablespoon of minced celery, and a heaping tablespoon of 
melted butter ; if the dressing seems a little dry a half gill of 
cream may be added. 

Mutton Pie 

Take the remains of a cold leg of mutton and cut the 
meat into thin slices or small pieces. Line a pie dish with 



198 Meats 

the crust, place a layer of the meat in the bottom, a layer 
of potatoes cut rather thick or in balls on top of the meat, 
little lumps of butter, a saltspoon of pepper and a half 
teaspoon of salt, a teaspoon of onion juice, a teaspoon of 
powdered herbs, and then put on another layer of the meat. 
Keep on in this way until the dish is full; then pour in a 
small cup of cream in which a teaspoon of browned flour 
has been stirred until smooth and free from lumps ; then put 
on the upper crust. Bake about an hour. This pie is 
good hot or cold. 

Dormers 

Chop half a pound of cold mutton, two ounces of fresh 
beef suet, and three ounces of cold boiled rice together 
finely ; add a high seasoning of pepper and salt and roll into 
little sausages. A little bunch of savory herbs adds greatly 
to the flavor. Dip them in egg, roll them in fine crumbs, 
and fry a delicate brown in hot fat. Serve with an English 
brown sauce poured over them. These make a good lunch- 
eon dish or entree. They may be garnished with toasted 
mushroom flaps in season, or served with stuffed baked 
peppers. 

Italian Cutlets 

Take three pounds of the neck of mutton, cut the meat 
into nicely shaped cutlets, flatten them and cut off some of 
the fat, dip them in melted butter, then in the beaten yolk 
of an egg. Mix well' together four tablespoons of bread 
crumbs, one tablespoon of savory herbs, one tablespoon 
of minced parsley, one teaspoon of minced shalot, one salt- 
spoon of finely chopped lemon peel, salt, and pepper, and 
roll the cutlets in the ingredients. Fry them a delicate 
brown in hot fat. Remove from the pan, then dredge into 
the grease they have been fried in a little flour, and when it 
begins to brown pour in a cupful of hot stock ; add a table- 
spoon of chutney, two teaspoons of tarragon vinegar, a 



Meats 199 

wineglass of port; then allow it to boil up, stirring it 
smooth. If the gravy should not be thick enough add a 
little bit more flour; then pour around the cutlets. Garnish 
with fried red peppers and cress. 

Irish Stew 

Have three pounds of the loin of mutton cut into pieces of 
stewing size, put them in a saucepan with four thinly sliced 
onions, two diced carrots, and a quart of water. Cook 
gently one hour, then add salt and pepper to taste, eight 
good-sized potatoes cut in thick slices, and cook gently an- 
other hour. Then make quick dumplings, drop in on the 
top, and cook for fifteen minutes more tightly covered. Lift 
the stew and if the gravy is too thin thicken it slightly and 
pour over the stew. 

Mutton Pie 

Take two pounds of loin of mutton, cut it into small 
pieces, cut two kidneys in small pieces, grate one large 
onion, and chop fine a teaspoon of parsley. Place all in a 
buttered pudding dish and add two large cups of brown 
sauce, well seasoned. Cover the top with a good pie crust 
and bake for an hour and a half in a steady oven. 

English Mutton Chops 

The English chop is cut from two to two and a half inches 
thick and it takes from fifteen to eighteen minutes to broil. 
The ordinary chop is from half to three quarters of an inch 
thick and can be broiled in ten or twelve minutes. 

Trotters 

The trotters come to market all prepared in bundles. 
Wash them and place them in a saucepan with boiling water. 
Cook gently for two hours, or until the bones can be pulled 
loose. Remove from the fire and when slightly cool remove 



20O Meats 

the bones. Escallop the meat in a baking dish, using layers 
of bread crumbs dusted with pepper and salt, a little chopped 
parsley, two grated onions, and one cup of tomato juice. 
Dot the top with little lumps of butter, and bake three 
quarters of an hour to an hour, according to the heat of the 
oven. 

The trotters may also have the meat removed from the 
bones and, after being well seasoned, have the water they 
were cooked in boiled down to one half with a teaspoon of 
gelatine powder added, and be molded and jelled. When 
ready to serve lay a slice on a lettuce leaf with a tablespoon 
of asparagus tips on top and the whole heaped with mayon- 
naise. This makes a very nice warm day luncheon dish. 

Lamb 

In roasting a leg of spring lamb, weighing five pounds, it 
will take one hour and a half in a steady oven, and it will 
make a sufficient meal for five persons. Real spring lamb 
first comes to market at Easter time. 

Sttjffed Shoulder of Lamb 

Have the blade bone removed from as large a shoulder of 
lamb as the market affords and stuff the meat with a savory 
stuffing, sewing up the slit with a coarse thread. Lay in a 
stewpan four slices of bacon, then lay in the lamb, and add 
two grated onions, a half stalk of chopped celery, a small 
bunch of savory herbs, and one quart of white stock. Stew 
evenly and gently for two hours. Then lift the meat, lay 
it on a hot platter, and reduce, by boiling, the gravy to one 
half the quantity; thicken it slightly with browned flour 
and turn over the meat. Serve mashed potato, peas, or 
stewed cucumbers with the lamb. 

Lamb Sweetbreads 

Soak a pair of sweetbreads in lukewarm water, then place 
them in a saucepan with sufficient boiling water to cover 



Meats 20I 

them and simmer for ten minutes. Take them out and 
place them in cold water; next lard them and place in a 
stewpan, adding a sprinkling of pepper and salt, a small 
bunch of green onions, sliced fine, a blade of mace, a half 
pint of white stock, and a thickening of a little butter and 
flour rubbed to a cream ; stew all gently for twenty minutes. 
Beat two eggs with a half pint of cream to which add a little 
minced parsley and a slight grating of nutmeg. Add this 
to the other ingredients, but do not allow the mixture to 
boil after adding for it will curdle. Have some asparagur 
tips, that have been boiled in fair water, ready drained and 
lay them around the dish as an edible garnish. 

Lamb Fries 

Take one pound of lamb fries and boil in three pints of 
water for twenty minutes, drain and dry them on a cloth, 
dip lightly in egg and roll in very fine bread crumbs to 
which have been added a saltspoon of pepper, a half tea- 
spoon of salt, and a teaspoon of chopped tarragon leaves. 
Fry in hot fat a delicate brown. Serve in a napkin and 
garnish with fresh, crisp watercress. 

Crown, or Rack Roast 

This roast is composed of the rack of mutton. The upper 
portions of the bones are frenched; the roast is then folded 
inside out and skewered or tied in place. Cover the tops of 
the bones with a little oiled paper so they do not burn. 
Place the roast in a baking-pan, turning into the pan a small 
cup of water in which a half teaspoon of salt and a saltspoon 
of pepper have been mixed. Roast in a quick oven for 
about three quarters of an hour, basting often. Have ready 
a dish of light creamy mashed potatoes, and just before the 
roast is done draw it from the oven, remove the papers 
from the bones, fill the pot with the mashed potato, and put 
it back in the oven just long enough to brown the potato on 
top. Remove from the oven, put little white quilled paper 



202 Meats 

caps on top of each bone, and garnish the roast with little 
heaps of green peas alternated with fried slices of tomato. 

PORK 

Setting aside the fact of his unattractive habits there is no 
domestic animal so useful or profitable to man as the much 
maligned pig, or any that yields a more luxurious or varied 
repast. Those raised for market have come in recent years 
under such strict board of health laws that they do not 
fall heir to the many diseases that formerly made them 
dangerous eating. Where pork is objected to there 
are many other fats to take its place, such as nuts, olive 
oil, butter, and cream, but none can offer to the epicure 
the delightfully toothsome flavor that the pork possesses. 
The ham is trimmed to the rounded piece familiar to us in 
the market, and may be used fresh, corned, or smoked, the 
latter being the most popular way in use. The boned 
shoulder is called a "neck sparerib, " and is a roasting 
piece. A heavy shoulder cut short is known in some locali- 
ties as a picnic ham; it is not a ham, though the meat is of 
good flavor, and there is a good deal of bone waste to it. 
The true loin consists of from nine to twelve ribs with part 
of the hip at one end and part of the shoulder at the other. 
The loin is used for roasting whole or for chops. 

Pork tenderloin corresponds to that in the beef, and 
laying under the loin is generally sold with that roast, but 
is occasionally taken out for broiling or frying. The large 
packing houses, however, furnish the tenderloins in bulk, 
packed for our markets, and they have become, during 
their season (winter months), a butchers' staple. 

The belly may be corned but it is generally smoked for 
bacon ; when the ribs are removed it is called boneless bacon ; 
when the side is divided lengthways into inside and outside 
strips, one being fat and the other lean, the latter is known 
in some localities as clear-sides, while the former is the fat 
bacon, or larding or pickled pork. 



Meats 203 

Boiled Ham 

Choose a short, thick, heavy, sugar-cured ham, place it in 
a ham pot with enough cold water to cover it, bring it 
gradually to boiling point, and after it has boiled for a half 
hour have ready a kettle of boiling water and throw off the 
first water, adding the fresh. Then let it boil evenly until 
done. A ten-pound ham will take four hours. When the 
ham is done remove it from the fire and let it stand in the 
water until the water is cool enough to have stopped steam- 
ing. Remove the ham, skin and trim it, dredge the top 
with a little bit of brown sugar, put a paper frill around the 
bone, and send to table garnished with watercress. 

If the ham is to be served cold then it may remain in the 
water until it is quite cool ; cooling it in this way the juices 
are kept in and make the meat more tasty. 

If the ham is to be baked then remove it from the boiling 
water when done, trim and skin it, and after skinning 
sprinkle the fat on top with sugar ; stick it thickly with 
cloves, dust lightly with a little mignonette pepper, place it 
in a baking pan with a half cup of the water it was boiled 
in, mixed with a quarter of a cup of honey. Bake for 
about an hour, basting very often. The last half hour 
have ready some boiled sweet potatoes, cut them in half, 
lay them in the baking pan with the ham, let them brown 
lightly, and serve as a garnish with the meat. This is a 
southern way of cooking ham. 

Baked Smoked Ham 

Soak a twelve pound ham over night and in the morn- 
ing wipe it thoroughly dry, trim it and cover it entirely in 
a common biscuit crust. Be sure the crust is even in 
thickness so it will keep the juices in. Place in the oven 
and bake four hours, then break off the crust, skin and trim 
the ham. Sprinkle it thickly with brown sugar, stick it 
with cloves and put it into the oven for a long enough time 
to melt the sugar. This may be eaten hot or cold. This 



204 Meats 

method of cooking makes the ham more juicy and it will 
keep longer after it has been cooked. 

Baked Fresh Ham 

Select a short thick fresh ham and have the butcher bone 
it. Prepare a savory stuflEing and after stuffing it place it in 
a baking pan, dust it with pepper and salt, and place in the 
pan a cup of white wine, the juice of half a lemon, the 
juice of an onion, a teaspoon of celery, and the same amount 
of tarragon leaves chopped fine. Baste very freely and 
bake two and a half to three hours. Strain the dish gravy, 
add to it a half cup of white stock, and thicken it with 
browned flour and butter rubbed to a cream. 

Fried Ham 

Sliced ham for frying should be cut about a half inch thick. 
If the ham is salty then put it in a frying pan with cold 
water and let it come to boiling point, then throw off the 
water and fry the ham. The ham is generally accompanied 
with fried eggs. For broiling the ham is cut a trifle thinner 
than for frying. 

Roast Pork 

Select a loin of pork weighing six or seven pounds and 
containing the tenderloin, have the butcher score it, and 
place it in the roasting-pan, dusting lightly with a little 
pepper and salt, or turning over it a quarter of a cup of 
honey mixed with a half cup of boiling water. If the 
pork is very lean it should be rubbed over with olive oil 
before roasting, but its own fat is usually sufficient. Baste 
it often. A six- or seven-pound loin should roast from two 
and a half to two and three quarter hours. 

Pork Pie 

Have three pounds of shoulder of pork, or neck, cut into 
small squares and place them in a stewpan, covering with a 



Meats 205 

grated onion, a dusting of pepper and salt, and enough 
water to cover them. Stew gently until the meat is tender. 
When done place it in a pudding dish with a cup of diced 
potato, and a half cup of diced carrot. Boil down the meat 
gravy to one half, season it well, and turn over the meat. 
Have ready a good pastry pie crust and cover the pie with it. 
Bake in the oven one hour and serve hot or cold. 

Roast Pig 

The pig for roasting comes all prepared to the butcher 
and it will be thoroughly cleaned by him all ready for the 
cook to handle, though she must be careful to see that the 
ears and nostrils are thoroughly cleansed. After stuffing 
the pig with a good sage and onion dressing then sew up the 
slit neatly and truss the legs wide apart so that they roast 
thoroughly. Put the pig in a roasting pan, baste well and 
often every part of the pig during the roasting process. It 
will take about two hours to roast a small pig but it will be 
sufficient to serve about ten people. A tureen of the dish 
gravy thickened and a dish of apple sauce are usually served 
with the pig. 

Pig's Feet 

Pig's feet may be had in the market frenched with the 
large bones taken out, ready for broiling; they also come 
ready pickled, soused, or cleaned, ready for boiling at home. 

Sausage Meat 

Hardly anyone in these modern days attempts to make 
sausage meat at home, unless on a large farm. Head 
cheese and scrapple, and the other pork-made prod- 
ucts, all come so perfectly prepared that it is a useless 
waste of time and energy to make them at home. 

Lard 

Home-made lard is undoubtedly the finest cooking fat 
there is, though many of the new vegetable cooking fats 



2o6 Meats 

are crowding it into the background. Leaf lard has ad- 
vanced in price with other commodities, until home-made 
lard is getting to be almost a luxury. To make it, however, 
take seven pounds of leaf lard, cut it up into small pieces, 
and put them into a porcelain-lined kettle with a cup of 
water, which keeps it from burning until it begins to melt. 
Melt it down very slowly. When each piece has com- 
menced to shrink and there appears to be half the solid 
quantity in the pot strain off the first pail of lard. Continue 
cooking until the solid quantity is again reduced to one 
half, then strain off another pail of lard; and so on until 
nothing remains but the cracklings. When the cracklings 
are cooked down quite hard strain them off, chop them fine, 
and they may be added to corn meal batter and made into 
corn bread or muffins. So there is absolutely no waste. 
When the lard is white, set, and cold put a lightly salted 
cloth, or a piece of parafSne paper, over the top of each pail 
and store in a cold place. 

Roast Stuffed Tenderloins 

Split two pork tenderloins and cut the ends square so 
that they are the same size. Make a savory dressing and 
add to it the chopped meat ends. Stuff the tenderloins, 
tie firmly, or skewer together. While they roast baste 
them with a little melted butter which has salt, pepper, a 
spoonful of powdered sugar, and four cloves in it. When the 
tenderloins are done place them on a platter and make 
a sauce of the dish gravy by straining and adding to it a 
cup of sweet milk, thickened with a little butter and flour 
mixed to a paste. Serve in a hot gravy-boat and garnish 
the tenderloins with cress and olive rings. 

Lomo 

Have enough slices of pork, taken from the loin or 
shoulder and sliced thin enough to broil, to allow two to 
a portion. Let them marinate for one hour in vinegar to 



Meats 207 

which has been added a small quantity of pepper and salt 
and a bud of garlic; then drain them, wipe dry, and broil on 
a greased broiler. Serve the slices around a heap of curried 
rice in the center of the platter, making an outer border of 
thick slices of cold boiled potatoes that have been delicately 
broiled. 

Sausage Pasty 

Make a good puff paste, roll out, and cut into pieces four 
inches wide and twice as long. Take six or eight good 
country sausages, remove the meat from the skins, seasoning 
the meat highly and adding a finely chopped pepper, the 
juice of an onion, and a little savory spice. Put a tablespoon 
in each piece of the crust, roll and press the ends together, 
and bake twenty minutes to half an hour in a buttered 
shallow pan. Serve two to a portion on a doily garnished 
with a spray of cress. 

Grilled Ham with Bananas 

Cut into thin slices the required amount of raw ham and 
broil delicately. Skin some bananas, cut them in half 
lengthwise, season with salt and pepper, roll in beaten eggs 
and fine bread crumbs, and fry in hot bacon fat. Place the 
ham on a hot platter with a slice of banana on each piece, 
garnish the dish with parsley, and serve. 



POULTRY 

One of the first things for the young housekeeper to learn 
is how to select good poultry, and to learn in the early 
housekeeping days is to save many dollars and spoiled 
meals. There is hardly any food commodity more difficult 
of selection than poultry, unless it is the evasive cantaloupe. 
We are generally led to suppose that poultry is at its natural 
best from October until March, but the incubator and cold- 
storage facilities keep the market suppHed with acceptable 
goods the year around. 

Of course the birds that are unnaturally mothered, fed, 
and fattened may make a fine appearance, but the flavor is 
not up to the real thing, and they invariably weep away 
their unnatural fat in the dipping pan, leaving the meat flat 
and tasteless. A dry-picked chicken, as it is known in 
market lore, is the best to buy, for those that have been 
scalded to be more easily plucked and quickly done are sub- 
jected to a process that is responsible for much of the so- 
called ptomaine poisoning. In the season when the birds 
are not up to their very best they are called "saggy" by the 
experienced butchers and poulterers. The real spring 
chicken or broiler is prime in July, August, and September, 
when its weight averages from two to four pounds. Age in 
the barnyard fowls makes such a transformation that the 
spring cock is at one year old only fit for the soup pot or to 
make jelly of, while the hen of the same age is still tenderly 
inclined toward the insinuations of the carving knife ; that 
is, if it is good and sharp. 

208 



Poultry 209 

How to Stuff Fowl 

In stuffing a chicken it should not be filled to bursting 
point, as the dressing, if it is mostly of bread, will sw 11, 
and if it bursts through it gives a most untidy appearance 
to the roaster. Chickens split and roasted should be covered 
until ready to brown, as they burn quickly and dry up 
before they are really done inside ; also they require a gener- 
ous amount of butter in the cooking. Chicken should be 
wrapped in clean linen cloths if laid on the ice, and not 
come in contact with anything that might not be absolutely 
clean. Ducks are chosen in the same way as the chickens. 
They are not as economical eating, nor are they as varied 
in daily usefulness, the chicken being by far the best all 
rounder. 

As regards the toothsome capon chickens, the rule respect- 
ing age does not hold good, for there is rarely a more de- 
licious bird to be enjoyed than a well fed and well dressed 
capon. Age does not dry up the juices, and, like old wine, 
they grow more mellow with age. At three years old even 
they are as tender as chicks with the proper chicken flavor 
fully developed. 

It should be borne in mind as a good rule in choosing 
poultry that the small-boned and short-legged poultry are 
likely to excel the contrary sort in delicacy of color, flavor, 
and fine texture of their flesh. 

If a chicken is to be used within a few hours of its pur- 
chase, singe it carefully and quickly over a brown-paper- 
flame, or over the gas jet, if not held too close; take out all 
pinfeathers and, making a three-inch slit in the apron, draw 
it, being very careful not to break the little green gall-blad- 
der attached to the liver, as, if broken, it embitters the 
entire flesh and sometimes renders it uneatable. Remove 
the lungs, which cling tightly to the ribs and are often over- 
looked by the careless or inexperienced cook, and cut out 
the oil-bag at the base of the tail that tradition says "goes 
over the fence last"; wipe out the inside with a clean, dry 
14 



21 o Poxaltry 

cloth and lay on a clean plate next the ice; do not wash 
it until ready for use. Free the liver, gizzard, and heart 
from the intestines, and place with the chicken after cleaning 
them. If the chicken is not for immediate use do not draw 
it, but put it in a clean linen cloth and lay it directly on 
the ice. If drawn too long beforehand the meat dries out 
too much, and if the weather is damp it gets "slippery"— 
not an inviting condition — and requires a good washing in 
cold water to which a trifle of baking-soda has been added 
to render it wholesome again. 

The real chicken season is from early fall to late spring. 
In very early summer capons for roasting and chickens for 
f ricasseeing are all the market affords outside of cold-stor- 
age birds. A chicken is a fowl under two years old. A 
pullet is a young hen. Broilers are chickens four or five 
months old. A capon is a castrated cock or spayed hen. 

For boiling, a young fowl may be used, always select- 
ing a chicken that is short and thick and one with a 
deep breast; usually the yellow-skinned chickens are 
the best for this purpose. If the chicken is properly 
cleaned, the leg sinews drawn out, and it is carefully trussed, 
it will boil most satisfactorily and yield a plentiful supply 
of sliced cold meat. Some housewives drop into the water 
in which the chicken is to be boiled a small sliced onion, a 
sprig of celery, a small bunch of savory herbs, a bay leaf, and 
a sliced carrot, so that after the chicken is done and has 
been removed from the water the broth may be strained, 
and when cool the grease removed and seasoned, and then 
set away to jell. The addition to the water of a few extra 
pairs of chicken feet, which the butcher always has on hand, 
will aid the jelling process and will also improve the flavor 
of the broth. 

When selecting a chicken for roasting, procure one that 
weighs not less than four to five pounds, otherwise it will 
not yield sufiEicient meat to pay for the amount of fuel used 
in its cooking and the trouble in making the dressing, trus- 
sing it, and so on. The roasting chicken should be carefully 



Poultry 211 

cleaned, the pinfeathers removed, the neck also, and the 
breast stuffed French fashion. The sinews should be re- 
moved from the legs and it must not be stuffed too full. 

For broiling, the "broilers" are especially appropriate. 
They run from a pound and a half up to two and a half and 
there is no finer chicken than this when it reaches the 
weight of two to two and a half pounds for smothering, 
frying, for fricassee, or to joint for casserole use. 

Maryland Fried Chicken 

Place a chicken after having it carefully jointed and cut 
into pieces in a large frying pan with a heaping tablespoon of 
butter and one of lard and cover almost to the top of the 
pan with cold water. Set on the fire and allow it to cook 
rather slowly for about half an hour, covered tightly. When 
it begins to brown turn the pieces with a fork. Serve on 
a hot platter garnished with toast sippets and parsley. If 
any of the gravy is left in the pan after the chicken has 
been browned, add to it a cupful of milk in which a little 
cornstarch and flour has been rubbed smooth, and a little 
cream; stir carefully until the gravy is fairly thick and 
smooth, then serve in a hot tureen to use over the mashed 
potato. 

Chicken a la Mount Vemon 

Dissolve a tablespoon of plain gelatine in three fourths 
of a cup of hot chicken stock. Beat until frothy and add 
one cup of cream and one and one half cups of cold chicken 
cut into dice. Season with a saltspoon each of salt and 
pepper. Chill thoroughly. Make a sauce by dissolving 
one half tablespoon of gelatine in two tablespoons of 
cold water. Add to it the beaten yolks of two eggs, adding 
salt, a teaspoon each of sugar and mustard, two table- 
spoons of lemon juice, and one half cup of hot milk. Cook 
in double boiler until it thickens. Chill. Pour over 



212 Poviltry 

chicken, and serve with border of rice. Garnish with 
parsley and tender white stalks of celery. 

Poulet a la Marengo 

Cut a tender young fowl, after singeing and cleaning 
it, into eight or ten pieces; put them into a clean stewpan 
with four tablespoons of the best olive oil, brown them over 
a moderate fire, and when slightly browned dredge them 
with about a tablespoon of flour. When that is done pour 
in a pint of rich stock and let simmer gently for about half 
an hour, taking off the fat as it rises to the top. Add 
twenty button mushrooms halved, a saltspoon of pepper, 
and a half teaspoon of salt, a teaspoon of sugar, and half a 
bud of garlic. Cook five minutes; then remove the chicken, 
piling it pyramid fashion on the dish. Reduce the sauce by 
boiling it quickly and pour over the fowl. Garnish with 
toast sippets and parsley. 

Fowl Pilau 

Wash carefully one pound of the best rice, put it in a 
frying pan with two ounces of butter, and cook it over 
a slow fire until it is slightly browned, stirring it constantly. 
Fix the fowl as for boiling, and put it in the stewpan with 
two quarts of good strong stock. Make a spice bag with 
forty cardamon seeds, half an ounce of coriander seeds, and 
a quarter ounce each of cloves, allspice, mace, and half an 
ounce of cinnamon, and a quarter of an ounce of whole 
peppers. Drop the bag in with the chicken and let the 
chicken boil until it is tender; then add the rice and let 
cook until the rice is tender and almost dry. Fry delicately 
six strips of bacon, fry in butter three sliced onions, and have 
ready two eggs hard boiled. Place the fowl in the center 
of the dish, smother it with the rice, garnish with the bacon, 
onions and hard-boiled eggs cut into quarters. Serve very 
hot, removing the spice bag before sending it to table. 



Poultry 213 

Broiled-Chicken 

Select broilers weighing between a pound and a half and 
two pounds each ; split them in half and, when broiled, lay 
each half on a toast sippet, garnishing with parsley. A half 
chicken is served to a portion. 

Chicken au Gratin 

Chop the dark meat, add a small grated onion, a tea- 
spoon of jfinely chopped celery, a tablespoon of bread 
crumbs, seasoning, allowing a generous lump of butter to 
each ramekin of the mixture, with a tablespoon of sherry 
to each, and a light sprinkling of grated cheese over the top. 
Bake a delicate brown in the oven. Serve in the ramekins 
with a tiny dry toast finger at the side. 

Chicken Chop Suey 

This Americanized Chinese dish is not as complicated or 
difficult to make as it would seem when one is eating it ; it 
is quite within the possibilities of the home cook. Take the 
boned meat of a plump chicken with one sliced onion and 
fry it, after seasoning it well, in hot lard; add a cup of finely 
chopped ham, a half cup of finely minced celery, a half cup 
of green beans, a half cup of bamboo sprouts, and a half 
cup of thinly sliced button mushrooms. Add also a half 
cup of rich stock, and a quarter of a cup of Chinese sauce. 
Cover closely and cook until the chicken is tender. 
Thicken the sauce with flour beaten smooth in two table- 
spoons of cream, and add a tablespoon of finely chopped 
parsley. Serve hot with boiled rice, or fried noodles. 

Chicken Shortcake 

This dish must be put together at the last possible mo- 
ment and served immediately. Make a good shortcake 
of biscuit dough. When done split the cake and butter it. 



214 Poviltry 

Have ready a plate of thinly sliced boiled chicken which 
has been cooled but not iced. Fill the shortcake with the 
chicken and spread thickly with a good mayonnaise, lay 
on the upper half, lightly butter the top, then spread it 
with a small bottle of macedoine vegetables that have been 
drained, chopped, and marinated in French dressing for one 
hour, then drained again and mixed with mayonnaise. 
Serve the shortcake hot and as quickly as possible after 
laying up. Garnish with sprays of parsley drawn through 
thin slices of lemon. 

Chicken en Casserole 

Prepare and stew one tender jointed chicken until tender 
enough to remove the large bones; spread one cup of fresh 
boiled rice on the bottom of a well buttered casserole, then 
the chicken, then a cup of button mushrooms halved and 
three sliced truffles, a saltspoon of pepper and a half tea- 
spoon of salt, a gill of melted butter, two gills of the water 
in which the chicken was stewed, the juice of an onion, two 
tablespoons of grated English cheese, and a gill of sweet 
cream. Serve with it fresh asparagus with drawn butter 
sauce. 

Chicken Madrilaine 

Clean and joint one four-pound fowl and place it in a 
two-gallon soup kettle with two cleaned and split calf's 
feet. Add one pound each of washed and cut carrots, leeks, 
and onions, six tomatoes, a bud of garlic, one teaspoon of 
curry powder, saltspoon of salt, and a half saltspoon of 
pepper. Fill the pot with cold water, place it over the fire, 
and after it has boiled five minutes draw it to one side 
and allow it to boil slowly and evenly for three hours. 
.Remove from the fire, strain through a coarse sieve, then 
through cheesecloth into wet molds. This should be very 
clear when cold. It may be served in cups like cold con- 
somme or small quantities may be melted, to which vege- 



Poxiltry 215 

table macedoine or chopped meats may be added, then 
allowed to jell again. The chicken may be taken from the 
bones and chopped for hash or salad. 

Chicken Compote 

Dice enough cold boiled chicken to make two pints; 
chop two of the livers with three hard-boiled eggs, and 
dust with pepper, salt, and a little grated nutmeg. Stir 
two tablespoons of flour into a gill of melted butter and add 
a cup of the chicken broth; stir three minutes, then add 
three quarters of a cup of sweet cream. When all is hot, 
add the chicken and simmer for ten minutes. Beat two 
egg yolks with a quarter cup of cream, add it and let all 
cook a minute more ; then remove from the fire and add a 
teaspoon of lemon juice and a tablespoon of Worcestershire 
sauce. Serve garnished with toast sippets and parsley. 

Fricassee of Spring Chicken 

This is an excellent cold dish and is easy to prepare. Take 
a spring chicken weighing about a pound and a half and cut 
the legs and breast in two, season with a saltspoon each of 
salt, pepper, and paprika. Spread in a saute pan two finely 
sliced onions, a bay leaf, thyme, parsley, and a little piece 
of celery. Place the chicken on top, dust with a spoonful 
of flour, and cover all with a little of the broth. Cover and 
cook for twenty minutes, then take the cut chicken and 
place it in a deep dish. Put two leaves of gelatine into the 
gravy, then strain and add a little heavy cream to thicken 
it ; baste the chicken thoroughly with this thick gravy, then 
allow it to cool, covering it with a thin layer of chicken jelly. 
Decorate with sliced truffles and sprays of fresh cress. 

Chicken a la King 

Dice enough cold boiled chicken to make two cups. 
Saute in a gill of melted butter for five minutes, a cup of 



2i6 Poialtry 

button mushrooms, a shredded pepper, six thinly sliced 
truffles, and a tablespoon of Worcestershire sauce and the 
same amount of chutney syrup. Then add one grated 
onion, two tablespoons of flour, a cup of milk, salt, pepper, 
and a grating of nutmeg, and the chicken. Bring all to 
boiling point, then thicken with two egg yolks beaten in 
three quarters of a cup of cream and four tablespoons of 
melted butter. More seasoning may be added to taste. 
A tablespoon of sherry improves the flavor. Serve hot 
with toasted cheese sandwiches. 

Chicken a la Papigo 

Chicken a la papigo requires one four-and-a-half-pound 
frying chicken for three people. Joint, singe, and wash 
carefully, place in a deep frying pan with a tablespoon of 
lard and two tablespoons of butter, cover with cold water, 
set on the stove, and cover closely until it has cooked twenty 
to twenty-five minutes. Remove the cover, sprinkle with 
pepper and salt, and pour off a cup of the liquid, dust very 
lightly with a little flour and brown, transfer to the platter, 
then turn the liquid into the frying pan, adding one onion, 
one pepper which has been chopped and fried delicately 
in butter, and three quarters of a cup of cream. Blend 
together a little butter and flour and thicken the gravy. 
Pour it over the chicken, garnishing with cress and tri- 
angular toast sippets. 

Chicken Pie 

Joint carefully a fresh, fat chicken, boil it in fair water, 
adding an onion, a bunch of herbs, pepper, and salt, until it 
is very tender. Take from the fire and while hot strip out 
some of the largest bones, and when slightly cool arrange 
in the pastry-lined dish the chicken pieces, add a few slices 
of hard-boiled eggs, and, if they are liked, a few truffles. 
Then strain over it as much of the water the chicken was 



Poultry 217 

boiled in as will fill the pie, put on the crust, leaving the 
opening at the top, and bake it three hours, covering the 
crust as before so that it does not get too brown. 

Chicken Sausage 

This is an old recipe said to have been popular in 1752. 

Take two spring chickens, weighing two pounds each, and 
chop them fine. Add to them an equal amount of fair pure 
lard and mix thoroughly, adding a cup of fine dry bread 
crumbs, the yolks of three eggs, pepper, salt, a little summer 
savory, sage, and enough sweet milk to bind the mixture 
so that it may be shaped into little sausages. Heat and 
grease the frying pan and fry the sausages in the usual way. 

Broiled Chicken and Jellied Giblets 

Broil the chicken carefully; be generous with the butter 
over it. Lay it on toast, to catch the draining butter, and 
garnish with fresh watercress. The giblets of as many 
chickens as are used may be stewed tightly covered until 
done. Chop fine, add pepper, salt, juice of an onion, 
a teaspoon of Worcestershire sauce, a dash of sugar, and a 
teaspoon of very finely chopped celery. Add this to a 
tomato jelly mixture and let jell in small heart molds. 
Lay the hearts on a bed of cress, to be served with each 
portion of chicken. 

Chicken Liver Saute — Chafing Dish 

Cut up twelve chicken or turkey livers, season with salt 
and pepper, and put them into the frying pan with two 
ounces of butter and three ounces of bacon sliced and cut 
into inch lengths. Fry on a quick fire for two or three 
minutes, add half a pint of brown sauce, a little chopped 
tarragon and parsley. Just before removing from the fire 
add a little sherry and a lump of fresh butter. 



2i8 Poultry- 

Use of " Left Overs " 

What is remaining the second day of any sort of roast 
fowl may be neatly jointed and cut into pieces and steeped 
for an hour in a little vinegar, salt, cayenne pepper, and 
minced onion. Make a batter of one half pound of flour, 
half pint of hot water, two ounces of butter, and the white 
of two eggs ; beat the batter well and dip the pieces of fowl 
in it and fry them in very hot lard; pile on a napkin and 
garnish with cress. 

Capon 

The capon is stuffed and prepared the same way as any 
other roasting chicken, and it is rarely served any other 
way, unless it is done in a casserole with sweetbreads 
and mushrooms. 

Turkey 

For roasting a hen turkey is considered the choicest, 
though a young gobbler is also very tasty, while a full grown 
gobbler is only good for boiling. Singe, draw, and remove 
the tendons from the turkey, truss it and stuff it in the 
usual way, then place it in the oven on its breast bone, 
giving it an extra pair of skewer legs to hold it in place. 
As it roasts in this way all of the juices run into the breast 
meat instead of weeping away in the pan, and the last 
minute it may be turned and lightly browned before serv- 
ing. A ten pound turkey will require even roasting for 
two hours and a larger one three hours or longer. When 
the turkey is cooking if it is inclined to brown or burn too 
quickly lay a sheet of asbestos paper over it. All fowls 
should be trussed with asbestos cord for it does not burn in 
the oven. 

What to do With Left-over Turkey 

If the housewife is possessed of patience the most un- 
promising turkey rack may be made to yield dainty surprise 



Poxiltry 219 

dishes under her careful manipulation the day after Thanks- 
giving. 

If there is enough meat left to slice nicely it may be thinly 
sliced and covered with a damp linen cloth and placed 
in the ice-box, and it will do for the next dinner. With the 
addition of hot vegetables and a fresh salad the second 
dinner will be almost as good as the first. 

Pick all the meat off from the rack and chop it fine; put 
away half of it with the gravy and dressing for a nice turkey 
hash on toast. 

Take the other half and add a finely chopped onion and a 
little celery, a few fine bread crumbs and seasoning; fill 
half green pepper shells with the mixture and plenty of 
butter, grate a little bit of cheese over the top, and bake a 
delicate brown. The rack may be jointed up and covered 
with one quart of water, one can of tomatoes, and a soup 
bunch. Boil slowly and when done strain and cool. When 
cold remove the grease, heat, season, and when it boils 
add quick little dumplings, finely broken macaroni, or rice. 

Deviled Turkey Legs 

Score drumsticks of turkey to the bone three times. 
Dip them in melted butter, spread with a little French 
mustard mixed with a teaspoon of Worcestershire sauce, 
season with a saltspoon each of salt and pepper and three 
drops of tobasco. Broil seven to ten minutes, basting 
with melted butter and turning frequently. Serve hot. 

Roast Goose 

When choosing a goose see that the skin is white, the feet 
yellow and pliable, and the breast deep and plump. When 
cleaned and trussed stuff the goose with a good sage and 
onion stuffing and roast it one and a half to two hours 
according to the size. Another way of cooking goose is to 
stuff it with a chestnut stuffing and boil it until it is tender. 



220 Poviltry 

then put it into the oven long enough to brown It well. 
Serve with a giblet sauce for either dish. 

Swedish Roast Goose 

Rub inside of the goose with salt and pepper. Stuff 
with mixture of chopped apples, stoned prunes, cut up, and 
dried bread crumbs. Sew up and jDut in a very hot oven. 
Pour a cupful of boiling water with level teaspoon of salt 
in pan. Roast until well done, allowing about twenty- 
five minutes for each pound. Serve with brown giblet 
gravy. 

Ducks 

The best ducks that come to the markets in the vicinity 
of New York are the celery fed Long Island ducks. The 
canvasback ducks are perhaps a little bit finer in flavor 
but are double the price of their Long Island cousins. In 
selecting a duck those that are plump all over will be found 
the best, for those artificially and quickly fattened for 
market will weep away much of the fat in the pan and the 
meat is apt to be greasy and unwholesome. Almost every- 
one has the poulterer draw the ducks for them, but If it is 
left for the cook to do it is a simple matter. Cut off the 
head and with a knife loosen the gullet which takes the 
place of the crop In the chicken. Make a slit in the apron 
below the breast bone and by grasping hold of the gizzard 
the entire intestines may be drawn out including the long 
canal that is attached to the gullet. Truss the wings back 
flat; the legs growing close at the sides of the body and 
being naturally short do not require the tying that chicken 
legs do. The breast Is flat and broad like that of all swim- 
ming birds. Stuff the duck with any good stuffing liked 
and roast from one and a half to two hours. 

For the roast duck or duckling, as the case may be, there 
is nothing nicer than a good savory bread stuffing, though 



Poultry 221 

many people like an oyster or some other fancy dressing. 
For the savory bread stuffing, take, the day before it is 
needed, a loaf of baker's bread and with a sharp knife cut off 
very thinly the crust of the entire loaf. Then break the 
bread into pieces and put it into a square of cheesecloth, 
tie it up, and hang it in the air. When ready to make the 
stuffing, crumb the bread fine and add to it the juice of 
a large onion, pepper, salt, a quarter pound of butter cut 
into small pieces, a teaspoon of powdered sage, a dash of 
mace, a little sweet basil, a little sweet marjoram, a gill of 
cream, and one beaten egg. Mix the dressing thoroughly; 
if it seems a little dry, add nothing more, as the butter and 
meat juices will moisten it sufficiently. There is one 
addition many Southerners make to this dressing, which is a 
slice of pickled pork diced and fried a delicate brown. 
Roast the ducks or ducklings in the usual way, covering 
them until they are well cooked through before allowing 
them to brown. Strain the dish gravy from the roasting 
pan, add a cupful of rich stock, thicken it with browned 
flour, and when ready to serve drop into it a dozen large 
seeded raisins. Garnish the ducks or ducklings with slices 
of fried tomato and cress. 

Ducks and Carrots 

Prepare for cooking a few carrots, boil them until they 
are soft, drain, put them into a saucepan, add enough 
butter to allow them to mash well; then mash them thor- 
oughly. Add to the carrots a quarter pint of rich stock, a 
teaspoon of sugar, and a saltspoon each of salt and pepper. 
Allow them to heat again to boiling point, then rub through 
a sieve. Have ready some slices of cold duck, lay them in 
the carrot puree, and let them stay on the stove long enough 
to heat thoroughly through, but do not allow them to boil. 
Serve garnished with croutons and parsley. The carrot 
puree may be made in the morning and left, ready to heat 
up, until time for getting supper. 



222 Poultry 

Giblet Pie 

Clean a set of duck or goose giblets and put them in a 
stewpan with a pint of water, one onion, pepper, salt, and a 
few sprigs of savory herbs. Simmer for one and a half 
hours, take them out, cut them into small pieces, and let 
them cool. Line the shallow pudding dish with the crust 
and have one pound of rump steak cut in small pieces. 
Put a layer in the bottom, then a layer of the giblets, and so 
on ; then season with pepper, salt, and some lumps of butter 
and add the strained gravy in which the giblets were boiled. 
Cover with a top crust, leaving a round hole in it, and 
bake in a good oven about one hour and a half. 

The crust may be covered with a piece of writing paper 
to keep it from getting too brown. If the cup is used to 
draw up the gravy in the pie, it is put in the bottom and 
must be not larger than the hole in the crust so that it may 
be fished out easily. This is a very cheap and very tasty 
pie. 

Guinea Fowl 

This fowl is a cross between the wild bird and the barn- 
yard fowl. Its meat is dark, of good flavor and nourishing. 
The fowls are good stuffed and roasted, fricasseed with 
potato dumplings or in the following way. 

Guinea Fowl en Casserole 

Fix the guinea fowl just as chicken is fixed, adding little 
potatoes, plenty of butter, pepper, salt, grated onion and 
white turnips cut in little balls with the potato cutter, a gill 
of cream, and half a cupful of milk in which a teaspoon 
of browned flour is mixed, and cook covered tightly. 

Pigeon and Squab Cookery 

In choosing pigeons it is wise to select the white feathered 
young birds, as their flesh is apt to be more delicate than 



Poviltry 223 

that of the dark feathered birds, which is stronger and 
more gamy in flavor. They should be drawn at once. In 
selecting squabs pick out the short thick birds for they 
yield the most meat. Both pigeons and squabs must be 
dry picked. 

Roast Pigeons 

Clean and truss the birds in the usual way, stuffing them 
with a small quantity of savory stuffing ; pour a little melted 
butter over them and dust lightly with pepper and salt. 
Roast for from a half to three quarters of an hour. Add a 
little stock to the dish gravy, thicken it slightly, and turn 
into a tureen. 

Broiled Pigeons 

Fix them the same as squabs (see below), and when done 
add butter, pepper, and salt. If liked, a little smooth 
tomato or mushroom sauce may be served with the birds. 

Pigeon Pie 

Line individual pie dishes with good puff paste; cut a 
pound and a half of rump steak in small squares. Cut in 
small pieces three pigeons, lard them with butter, and put 
them with the steak in a stewpan with a pint of good red 
stock and let them stew half an hour; remove from the 
fire, and when cool season and fill the pies, adding a little 
chopped button mushroom and the juice of an onion to 
each pie, with enough of the stock to fill the pie. Cover 
each with a lattice crust and bake until the crust is done. 

Broiled Squabs 

For broiling, split the squabs down the back, clean them 
carefully, dust with pepper and salt, butter' the gridiron 
and broil over a brisk steady fire. 



224 Poviltry 

Squab en Casserole 

Select plump squabs, clean, and stuff them with savory- 
dressing, truss, and dust with pepper, salt, and a little 
flour, then lay them into the casserole, which has been well 
buttered, add a grated onion, a grated carrot, the heart of 
celery, finely chopped, a few potato balls cut with the 
scoop, a lump of butter, six raisins, a slice of bacon, a wine- 
glass of white wine, and a cup and a half of cold water. 
Wipe the inside of the cover very lightly with a bud of 
garlic. This should cook at least two hours in the oven and 
is of course served in the casserole. 

Stewed Squab 

Prepare the squabs, after cleaning, by cutting them into 
halves, using enough to allow one bird to a person when 
served. Put them into the stewpan with a slice of bacon, 
enough white stock to cover them, and stew a half hour. 
Dish the birds on toast and thicken the gravy, adding sea- 
soning to taste; then pour it over the birds. Garnish them 
with parsley and potatoes on the half shell. 

Boned Squab 

Have one jumbo squab boned. Fill it with savory 
stuffing and lay it in a well buttered shallow baking pan. 
Cover for twenty minutes, basting with melted butter to 
which pepper, salt, and a gill of white wine have been added. 
Delicately brown it, lay it on a slice of toast, slightly thicken 
the gravy, turn a little over the squab, garnish with cress 
and toast sippets, and serve fresh stewed pineapple sauce 
with it. 

Fried Squabs 

Clean and split four squabs, wash, and truss neatly. 
Put into a saucepan a well washed and diced soup bunch, 
a sliced onion, a bay leaf, three cloves, a tablespoon of 



Poviltry 225 

Worcestershire sauce. Lay in the squabs and add two 
cups of water. Cover closely and cook gently for one hour. 
Remove squabs and stuff them with sausage meat, dust 
with flour, roll in egg and crumbs, and fry in very hot fat. 
Drain the gravy they were boiled in, thicken and season 
it, and turn it over toast slices on a hot platter and lay the 
squabs on it, garnishing them with sprays of fried parsley. 

To Bone Fowls 

After drawing, singeing, and wiping out the fowl to be 
boned cut off the head. Next cut through the skin all 
around the first joint of each leg and pull them off from the 
fowl to draw out the large tendons. Raise the flesh first 
from the lower end of the backbone and a little also from 
the end of the breastbone ; work the knife gradually to the 
socket of the thigh; with the point of the knife detach the 
joint from it, take the end of the bone firmly in the fingers, 
and cut the flesh clean from it down to the next joint, round 
which pass the point of the knife carefully; cut round the 
next bone, keeping the edge of the knife close to it, until 
the whole of the leg is done. Remove the bones from the 
other leg in the same way. Next detach the flesh from the 
back and breast bones sufficiently to enable you to reach 
the upper joints of the wings. Proceed with these as with 
the legs, but be careful not to pierce the skin of the second 
joint; it is usual to leave the pinions unboned, in order to 
shape the fowl more readily when it is dressed. The wish- 
bone and neck bones may now be easily cut away, the 
back and side bones taken out without being divided, and 
the breastbone separated carefully from the flesh. As the 
work progresses the flesh must be turned back from the 
bones upon the fowl until the bird is turned completely 
inside out. After the one remaining bone is removed, draw 
the wings and legs back to their proper form, and turn the 
fowl right side out. 

In stuffing the fowl and re-shaping very often the legs 

IS 



226 Poultry 

are drawn inside the body, as is the neck, which makes the 
bird very compact. 

Turkeys are boned in the same manner and the legs and 
neck are always drawn in to help fill the large cavity. 

If securely trussed and well sewed the birds may be 
either boiled, stewed in rich gravy, or roasted after boning, 
but they must be gently cooked for fear of bursting, and 
they must not be stuffed too full. 

Domestic Rabbit Stew 

Select a pair of rabbits that are fat and freshly killed, 
clean them, remove the skin, and wash thoroughly. Cut, 
or joint, them, place them in the stewpan, and fill it three 
quarters full of cold water. Put on the fire and allow it 
to boil for five minutes, skimming carefully; then add a 
large thinly sliced onion, one diced carrot, two tablespoons 
of chopped parsley, and let cook until the rabbit is very 
tender. Then add six potatoes cut in thick slices; cook 
twenty minutes longer, then remove the rabbit and vege- 
tables to a hot platter with the skimmer; thicken the gravy 
and turn over the stew. 

Rabbit Pie 

Cut up one young rabbit in pieces, removing carefully 
the large bones. Line a deep pudding dish with good pie 
crust and put in a layer of the meat, a layer of thinly sliced 
hard-boiled egg, a grated onion, and a little diced ham; dust 
lightly with pepper and salt, a grating of nutmeg, and 
continue in this fashion until the pie dish is filled. Pour 
over the top a half gill of melted butter and a cup of water 
to which a tablespoon of chutney syrup, a teaspoon of 
Worcestershire sauce, and tablespoon of tomato ketchup 
have been added. Put on the top crust, leaving a large 
steam vent in the center, and bake an hour and a half. 



GAME 

Included under this head are partridges, pheasants, wild 
ducks and geese, prairie chickens, quail, snipe, rail birds, 
spruce hens, plover, mud hen, kingfisher, and wild turkey; 
squirrels, opossums, bear, buffalo, venison, ostrich meat, 
and terrapin. 

All game should be hung with feathers or fur on, but 
carefully drawn, for a short time, covered from insects. 
Of course weather conditions govern the time for hanging. 

Draw the game birds carefully and wipe them out but do 
not wash them. It is said that wild game is more easily 
digested than domestic meat. The birds mentioned are 
usually broiled, roasted, or cooked en casserole according to 
taste and their size. 

Squirrels are cooked in the same ways that rabbits or 
Belgian hares are cooked. 

Opossums are cleaned, stuffed with any good savory 
stuffing, or with potato, and roasted for three hours or more 
according to size, being basted often. 

Venison, buffalo, and bear steaks are cut, cooked, and 
served in the same way as the ordinary beef steak. When 
the carcass of these animals is cut up it is done in the same 
way that beef is cut. These meats must be served very 
hot, for when cold they are heavy eating and unpalatable. 

The baby ostrich, weighing from sixty to one hundred 
pounds, is prepared by plucking, cleaning, and removing 
head and legs. It is then placed in a tub to marinate in the 
following mixture: Six pounds of sliced onions, five of 
sliced carrots, three bunches of parsley, a quarter pound 
of whole black pepper, two dozen bay leaves, thirty cloves, 

227 



228 Game 

twelve whole allspice, three sliced garlics, four quarts of 
claret, one quart of vinegar, two quarts of sherry, a pint 
of brandy, two pounds of brown sugar, a quarter pound of 
juniper berries, all mixed thoroughly together. Let the 
bird marinate for three days, turning it often and keeping 
well covered. Remove the bird at the end of that time and 
place it in a large pan with about five quarts of water. It 
must be roasted in a baker's oven not too hot. Baste often 
with the marinade. After cooking two hours add the 
marinade and cook from four to six hours until it is a nice 
brown color. 

Serve the bird a la barbacue. Skim and strain the gravy 
and add to it a cup of fresh horseradish, two pints of currant 
jelly, salt and pepper to taste, one grated orange peel, and 
six oranges thinly sliced. Boil fifteen minutes and serve 
in a hot tureen. This is a rare and unusual dish. 

Quail Boiled in Butter 

Take one dozen properly prepared quail and put them 
into three pounds of melted butter. Let them boil evenly 
until tender. When done, serve on toast garnished with 
lemon points and parsley, with a dish border of broiled 
potatoes. The butter the birds were boiled in may be 
strained and set aside for future use to fry things in. 

To Prepare Terrapin 

Wash the terrapin by shaking it about in a tub of 
water holding just enough to immerse it, then plunge head 
downward into a large vessel of water that is boiling hard. 
Cook fifteen minutes or until the skin can be rubbed from 
the legs with a wet cloth. Take out and put again over the 
fire with just enough boiling water to cover, and when 
the shells begin to open it is sufficiently tender. 

Next pull off the under shell and cut the ligaments which 
fasten it to the upper shell. There is then just a mass of legs 



Game 229 

and Intestines. Pull off the legs and the intestines massed 
around the liver, eggs, and sandbag only are left. Cut off 
the liver, taking care to leave enough attached to the gall 
so as not to break it; take out the eggs and put them with 
the liver in cold water. 

Remove all the meat from the shells and have ready a 
half pint of good champagne sauce, and allow the meat to 
simmer in it for fifteen minutes. 

The liver may be boiled and added; and the eggs, if any 
are present, may also be boiled and added to the stew. 



STUFFINGS, SAUCES, AND GRAVIES 
Good Stufiing 

Take one pound of sausage meat and add to it the juice 
of two onions, a tablespoon of Worcestershire sauce, a 
tablespoon of chopped tarragon leaves, pepper, salt, a tea- 
spoon of finely powdered sage, a tablespoon of sugar, and 
beat into it the stiffly beaten whites of two eggs. Add two 
cups of bread crumbs, a half cup of apple sauce, and a half 
cup of finely chopped celery. Mix thoroughly and last of 
all stir in the two egg yolks. 

Savory Stuffing 

This is especially good for geese or turkeys. Take three 
tart apples, pared, cored, and chopped fine, one onion, one 
stalk of celery, a teaspoonful of parsley, and a cup and a 
half of bread crumbs. Chop all fine and mix together, 
adding a lump of butter the size of an egg, a tablespoon 
of sugar, pepper and salt, a teaspoon of powdered sage. 
Moisten all with a gill of cream. If it is not quite moist 
enough, add another lump of butter, which will moisten it 
sufficiently when heated, and it is ready for use. 

Potato Stuffing 

Force eight boiled potatoes through a potato ricer. Add 
one third cup melted butter, one cup cream, three eggs well 
beaten together, and two medium-sized onions finely 
chopped. Beat two minutes and season with pepper and 

salt. 

230 



Stuffings, Saxxces, and Gravies 231 

Chestnut Stuffing 

A very good chestnut stuffing for goslings is made by 
taking fifty chestnuts, peeled, blanched, and chopped fine; 
place in a saucepan with two ounces of butter, a half pound 
of sausage meat, a little minced parsley, half a bud of 
garlic, and a generous dusting of pepper and salt; cook for 
ten minutes, add a half cup of fine bread crumbs, and when 
cool stuff the fowl. 

Turkish Stuffing 

Parboil two handfuls of rice, peel a dozen chestnuts and 
cut them fine, add a handful of currants, a few pistachio 
nuts, a saltspoon each of pepper and salt, and a dash of cin- 
namon; mix and heat all together. When a little cool, 
stuff the turkey and garnish with stuffed peppers and 
parsley. 

Forcemeat Stuffing 

Cook two finely chopped onions in one ounce of fresh 
butter for five minutes. Soak the crumbs of a stale loaf of 
bread in water for ten minutes ; press out the water, add two 
beaten eggs, a saltspoon each of salt, pepper, grated nut- 
meg, sage, three skinned sausages, and a little chopped 
parsley. Add the cooked onions and mix well together, 
then stuff the turkey. 

Roast Turkey, Oyster Stuffing 

Wash and dry two dozen medium-sized oysters, add a 
cup and a half of bread crumbs, juice of one onion, dusting of 
salt and pepper, and tablespoon of celery essence. Stuff 
the turkey and serve with brown gravy. Garnish with 
watercress. 



232 Stvif&ngs, Saxices, and Gravies 

Roast Turkey, Chestnut Stuffing 

Peel and blanch a pint of chestnuts, chop fine, and cover 
with a cup of water in a clean saucepan and boil until soft ; 
rub through a sieve and add to two small cups of bread 
crumbs, a saltspoon of pepper, half a teaspoon of salt, a 
dash of sweet herbs and juice of a small onion, two well 
beaten eggs; mix well and stuff the turkey. Serve with 
brown gravy, to which add a gill of white wine. Garnish 
with tiny fried sausages. 

xloast Turkey, Macedoine Stuffing 

Drain one bottle of macedoine vegetables and add two 
cups of crumbs, saltspoon each of pepper and salt, a dash of 
paprika, a half cup of boiled ham chopped fine, and enough 
stock to moisten it. Stuff turkey and serve with champagne 
sauce. Garnish with fried parsnips and toast sippets. 

Celery Stuffing 

Boiled turkey with celery stuffing makes its appeal to the 
hearty appetite. Chop three stalks of white celery, add a 
small cup of bread crumbs, two ounces of melted butter, 
a saltspoon of pepper, a half teaspoon of salt and juice of 
one onion, two beaten eggs; mix all together and stuff 
the turkey. Sew up the apron, make a French neck and 
truss it firmly. Wring a cloth out of cold water, flour it 
and wrap the turkey in it, and plunge it into boiling water; 
boil quickly for half an hour, then slowly for three hours 
for a nine-pound turkey and ten minutes for each added 
pound. Serve with celery sauce and garnish with parsley. 

Sausage Stuffing 

Take one pint of bread crumbs and add to them three 
quarters of a pound of sausage meat; mix well and add a 
grated onion, a saltspoon of pepper, a half teaspoon of 
salt, a half teaspoon of sage, two tablespoons of chutney 



Stvif&ngs, Savices, and Gravies 233 

syrup, and a small cup of apple sauce. Mix thoroughly 
and it is ready to use. 

Sweet Stuffing 

Take a pint of bread crumbs and add to them a quarter 
cup of very finely minced celery, one cup of finely minced 
cold boiled chicken, a tablespoon of finely minced boiled 
ham, a half saltspoon of pepper, a half teaspoon of salt, 
a half gill of melted butter, a tablespoon of ginger syrup, 
and a small tumbler of currant jelly. Break the jelly into 
pieces and beat it through the stuffing. 

Nuts are nice added to almost any of the bread stuffings, 
fresh or salted, chopped or ground fine. 

Art of Making Sauces and Gravies 

The preparation and appearance of sauces and gravies 
are of the highest consequence in modern cooking, and in 
nothing else does the talent and taste of the cook so display 
itself. Their special suitability for the various viands 
they are to accompany cannot be too carefully studied in 
order that they shall harmonize and blend with them 
perfectly. 

Sauces should possess a decided character of their own; 
and, whether sharp or sweet, savory or plain, should carry 
out their names in a distinct manner. A sauce may be hot 
or cold, but a gravy is invariably hot. A sauce is usually 
served in a sauce-boat, while a gravy is put in a gravy bowl 
or tureen. 

A brown sauce, generally speaking, should not be as 
thick as a white sauce because it is usually much richer and 
belongs in a way to the gravy family ; the white sauce under 
its various names should not be thicker than cold honey, 
as it is intended to adhere to the poultry or other foods that 
it covers, allowing enough remaining in the dish to put 
an extra spoonful over each portion in serving. It should 



234 Stvifi&ngs, Saxjces, and Gravies 

always be smooth and free from lumps, preferably thickened 
with butter and flour, rubbed to a paste, arrowroot, or eggs. 
In thickening the sauce it should reach boiling point but 
never boil lest it curdle. 

On no account must sauces be thickened with enough 
cornstarch, for instance, to become like custard in texture. 
A cream sauce must always be served hot and kept hot to be 
at its best. Browned flour will be found the best to thicken 
sauces and gravies with. Remember that small quantities 
cool quickly and as the gravy is served it is wise to set it 
back on the plate-warmer or over a hot water dish during the 
serving of the course at which it is used, so that the last 
helping may be as good as the first and not congealed or 
greasy by being allowed to stand and cool. 

A small double boiler, two smooth saucepans of different 
size, and, if many sauces are made, a bain-marie pan and 
saucepans, should all be kept exclusively for this purpose. 
The latter Is a French convenience too little known in the 
United States. It consists of a deep square pan filled with 
boiling water into which are set small, covered, straight- 
sided saucepans holding the sauces, gravies, entrees, or 
anything that requires an even, steady heat. If the dinner 
hour is a bit uncertain, sauces and gravies will in this way 
be kept in perfect condition until they are needed; in other 
circumstances they would dry out and not be fit to use. 

Sauces for fish, meats, game, cooked entrees, croquettes, 
p^tes, and puddings are all made after rules especially laid 
down for their concoction, which, if closely followed, will 
crown the cook's efforts with success. 

Fashions in food colorings and garnishings change with 
the seasons. The popular colors of dress and decoration 
are followed as nearly as possible in the "various dishes, and 
the recent black-and-white fad accentuated the idea. 

The Breton vegetable coloring paste in bottles comes in 
red, green, violet, brown, yellow and orange and rose. 
The black note is gained by the use of truffles and caviar. 
Almost all shades of these colors are possible for sauces ; the 



Stvif&ngs, Savices, and Gravies 



.■)D 



only seeming impossibility is to effect blues, so this must be 
done by the addition of a floral garnish. 

Straight mayonnaise furnishes a beautiful yellow without 
adding extra coloring matter. Adding enough ketchup it 
may be made a shell pink, which is most decorative; again 
adding the spinach coloring matter will make it a tan or a 
golden brown. The addition of violet mustard will color 
it violet and a little of the coloring paste added will produce 
a deeper purple. This gives quite a diversity of colors for 
salad sauces by the use of the same foundation. 

A cream sauce may be left uncolored by thickening it 
without egg, and dotting it with truffles or caviar before 
serving makes it a futurist sauce. Again it may be made 
into a Spanish sauce by thickening it with the egg and a 
little saffron powder, and adding some chopped red pepper 
before serving. Cream sauce may be tinted pink and have 
shrimp shredded through it for a sauce chiffonade to serve 
with fish. Tinting with spinach coloring and having a little 
chopped parsley added makes the cream sauce a Dublin 
sauce to serve with boiled fish or with boiled potatoes. 

Tomato sauce requires no extra coloring, being a beautiful 
red in itself; but with the addition of capers, peas, olive 
curls, or green pepper strips it becomes a Scotch sauce to 
serve with chops or cutlets. 

Grape ketchup, and melted currant jelly sauce, asparagus 
sauce, and cucumber sauce are all good natural-colored 
sauces to serve with fish or meat. 

An English brown sauce is a rich dark brown without 
added color. Foundation sauces may also be used with 
vegetables. 

English Brown Sauce or Gravy 

Put two ounces of butter into a saucepan ; slice two onions 
very thin and cook in the butter until they are a delicate 
brown, then add two pounds of shin of beef cut in small 
pieces, and two small slices of lean bacon, a half teaspoon of 



236 St\iffin^s, Saxices, and Gravies 

salt, a saltspoon of pepper, three cloves, and two quarts of 
water. Let all boil until the contents are a nice brown 
color, stirring occasionally ; then simmer gently for an hour 
and a half, strain, and when cold remove all the fat. Turn 
the sauce back into a clean saucepan and heat. Melt 
three ounces of butter in a stewpan, sift into it two ounces 
of flour, and stir until it is a light brown color ; when it is 
cool, add it to the sauce and boil all up quickly. This 
sauce is good for any warmed-up meat, over hash or cutlets. 

Bechamel or French White Sauce 

Put into a clean saucepan one quart of white stock, 
adding one small bunch of parsley carefully washed and 
chopped, two cloves, half a bay leaf, one small bunch of 
savory herbs, a half teaspoon of salt, a saltspoon of pepper, 
and a half cup of button mushrooms. When it has boiled 
long enough to extract the flavor of all the ingredients, and 
boiled down almost one half, strain it carefully, wash the 
saucepan, then return the sauce to it; mix one teaspoon of 
arrowroot in one pint of cream and let it simmer very gently 
for five minutes, then add to it the reduced stock and let all 
simmer gently for ten minutes or until the sauce is of the 
right consistency for immediate use. As this is what is 
known as a foundation sauce, different sauces may be 
made from it by taking a small portion and adding other 
ingredients to it. 

A Good Cream Sauce 

Melt two tablespoons of butter in a saucepan, add two 
tablespoons of flour, one half teaspoon of salt, and a quarter 
teaspoon of pepper; rub together very smooth, then add one 
cup of cold milk. Put the saucepan over the fire and stir 
until the sauce comes to boiling point. Remove from the 
fire and set the saucepan into a larger one half filled with 
boiling water to keep the sauce at the right temperature 
until used. 



Stviffings, Sauces, and Gravies 237 

French Cream Sauce 

This is a sauce to use on mushrooms and sweetbreads. The 
breads are first parboiled in salt water, then cut in pieces. 
Button mushrooms cut in halves are added. Take two 
tablespoons of butter; when melted add the juice of one 
lemon, a saltspoon of pepper, a half teaspoon of salt, and 
the juice of a small onion. Have ready a cup of cream in 
which a tablespoon of cornstarch has been dissolved. 
Take as much bicarbonate of soda as would rest on a ten- 
cent piece and put in the butter. When it froths up, add 
the cream and stir constantly until it is the right thickness. 
Set back from the heat, add the breads and the mushrooms 
and, if liked, a wineglass of sherry — a matter of taste. 
Serve in covered dish. Chicken may be used instead of the 
sweetbreads, or lobster, scallops, codfish tongues, or oysters, 
if desired. 

Tomato Sauce 

Take one can or quart of tomatoes, three chopped onions, 
one chopped pepper, one clove, a bay leaf, a bunch of 
celery cut up, half teaspoon of salt, a saltspoon of pepper, 
and a tablespoon of Worcestershire sauce. Simmer for an 
hour, then add a pinch of bicarbonate of soda and half a 
cup of sugar. Strain carefully and thicken with butter 
and flour to which a little cornstarch has been added. 
Thicken to the consistency of cold honey and strain again 
if it seems at all lumpy. Pour over the tongue and garnish 
with cress. For other uses it may be best served in a sauce- 
boat. 

Tomato Curry 

Take a tablespoonful of good curry powder, add to a 
quart of stewed and seasoned tomatoes, place in a pudding 
dish with alternate layers of uncooked, well washed rice. 



233 Stvifi&ngs, Savices, and Gravies 

using a cupful of the latter; let the top layer be of bread 
crumbs, dot with butter, and bake until the rice is done. 

Burnt Onions for Gravies 

Chop one large Spanish onion and boil it five minutes in a 
half pint of water; add half a pound of sugar and simmer 
gently until the mixture becomes nearly black. Then 
strain the mixture into three quarters of a pint of boiling 
vinegar, stirring constantly with a wooden spoon. When 
cold, bottle for use. 

Drawn Butter Sauce 

Rub three tablespoons of butter with two tablespoons of 
flour, add a quarter teaspoon of salt, and a half saltspoon of 
pepper. Add slowly one cup of boiling water and cook 
until the sauce is thick and smooth. 

Though the following sauces are classified they are not 
limited solely to the dishes for which they are given, and 
may be used with any foods the housewife may feel she 
would like to serve them with. 

SAUCES TO BE SERVED WITH FISH 
Anchovy Sauce 

Take one and a half tablespoons of bottled anchovy 
essence, blend it perfectly with a half pint of melted butter, 
add a generous dash of red pepper, juice of half a lemon, six 
stoned and thinly sliced olives, and half a teaspoon of onion 
juice. Let the sauce boil up for one minute, then serve 
hot. This is very good over any boiled or broiled fish. 

Anchovy Sauce 

Bone four anchovies and make a smooth paste of them 
with one ounce of butter. Melt butter enough to make a 



Stxjfi&ngs, Sauces, and Gravies 239 

half pint, stir in the paste and cayenne pepper to taste, 
simmer for three or four minutes, and add the juice of half a 
lemon. Serve hot with any sort of fish. 

Asparagus Sauce 

Take one bunch of fresh asparagus, cut off the green 
tips and boil them in fair water until they are done but 
not broken, drain, and set aside to cool. Wash the remains 
of the bunch and cut the stalks into inch pieces; boil until 
they are very tender in a pint of water. When done put 
through a puree sieve, add a cup of hot milk, then thicken 
slightly with a little butter and flour rubbed to a cream, 
add a saltspoon of salt, a half a saltspoon of pepper, and the 
asparagus tips. This is excellent over any boiled or baked 
fish. 

Bombay Sauce 

This sauce is served with carefully drained boiled codfish 
or salmon. It is a rich drawn butter, highly seasoned, 
and just before serving a tablespoon of madeira wine is 
added in which a clove and a piece of ginger root have been 
marinating at least one hour. The fish may be hot or cold, 
but the edges must not be allowed to dry. Garnish with 
slices of lemon through which sprays of parsley have been 
drawn. 

Champagne Sauce 

One cup of champagne, two cloves, one bay leaf, one 
teaspoon of sugar, and four pepper corns. Let infuse for 
five minutes, then add a cup of English brown sauce and 
simmer ten minutes. Strain into a hot tureen or over 
broiled blue fish. 

Caper Sauce 

Cut three dessertspoons of capers in half, wash carefully, 
and add them to a half pint of melted butter; saltspoon of 



240 Stuffings, Sa\xces, and Gravies 

salt and a half saltspoon of pepper; add a teaspoon of 
anchovy sauce, simmer one minute and keep stirring, and 
it is ready to serve. 

Celery Sauce 

Wash and cut into one-inch pieces a large bunch of celerj^ 
boil it in salted water until it is tender; put one pint of 
white stock into a stewpan with a bunch of savory herbs 
and a blade of mace and let all simmer for a half hour ; then 
strain off the liquor, add the celery to it, and thicken with 
butter and flour rubbed to a cream. Just before serving 
add half a pint of cream and the juice of half a lemon ; boil 
up once, add a half saltspoon of pepper and a saltspoon of 
salt, and serve. 

Cheese Sauce for Boiled Cod 

Mix two tablespoons of butter with two tablespoons of 
flour to a smooth paste, add two cups of cold water, and 
cook until thick and smooth ; then add a half cup of grated 
cheese, saltspoon of pepper and a half teaspoon of salt, 
and one hard-boiled egg cut in small pieces. Serve in a hot 
tureen with boiled codfish. 

Crab Sauce 

Take two large fresh boiled crabs and remove all the 
meat, shredding it with a silver fork. Take a half pint of 
melted butter and a gill of cream, a well beaten egg, pepper 
and salt to taste. Let simmer, and when slightly thickened 
add the crab meat and a teaspoon of finely chopped pars- 
ley. Serve in gravy-boat. 

Cucumber Sauce 

Pare and quarter four cucumbers, remove the seeds, 
cut in inch pieces, put in a linen cloth, and squeeze the water 
out. Put two tablespoons of butter in a saucepan, add 



St\ifi&ngs, Sauces, and Gravies 241 

the cucumber pieces, and shake over a brisk fire until they 
are a good color. Then add six tablespoons of brown 
gravy, a quarter saltspoon of pepper, and a saltspoon of 
salt. Simmer gently for ten minutes and serve. This is 
an excellent fish sauce. 

Dutch Sauce 

Take two tablespoons of water, two of vinegar (tarra- 
gon), juice of half a lemon, two ounces of butter, a half 
teaspoon of flour, and the yolks of two eggs. Put all in- 
gredientsv but lemon juice into a stewpan, let come to 
boiling point but not boil, and when thick enough remove 
from the fire. Strain, add the lemon juice, and serve in 
sauce-boat. 

Egg Sauce 

Boil four eggs hard, and when cold chop them fine. Melt 
smoothly a half pint of butter, add a saltspoon of red pepper 
and a teaspoon of lemon juice. Serve the mixture hot for 
salt fish. 

Fennel Sauce 

To a cup of carefully melted butter add one tablespoon 
of washed and finely chopped fennel seed; let simmer 
for two minutes. Serve with broiled mackerel, shad, or 
bluefish. 

Gooseberry Sauce for Mackerel 

Boil one pint of green gooseberries in water until tender, 
then strain through a sieve. Put into a saucepan two ounces 
of butter and three tablespoons of rich stock ; saltspoon of 
salt, half saltspoon of pepper and a half saltspoon of nut- 
meg; add the pulp of gooseberry and a little sugar and 
simmer gently together a few minutes and serve hot. 
id 



242 Stuffings, Sauces, and Oravies 

Hessian Sauce 

Beat until thoroughly mixed four tablespoons of 
freshly grated horseradish, a tablespoon of very finely 
ground bread crumbs, saltspoon each of salt and pepper, 
and a gill of sour cream. Then add a teaspoon of lemon 
juice or tarragon vinegar, and serve with flaked cold boiled 
salmon or codfish. 

Maitre d'Hotel Butter 

Work together a quarter of a pound of butter, a table- 
spoon of minced parsley, a saltspoon of salt, and a quarter 
saltspoon of pepper. Blend thoroughly, adding the juice 
of one large lemon. Melt over the teakettle. Serve 
over broiled fish. 

Matelote Sauce for Salmon 

Peel fifteen small onions and put them with a half tea- 
spoon of sugar into a two-pint saucepan. Add a quarter 
of a pound of butter and shake about until the onions are 
browning, then add a wineglass of sherry and a dessert- 
spoon of flour; stir gently, let it boil; then add a half a 
pint of water and a gill of good stock. Simmer until the 
onions are soft, season with salt, pepper, and a level tea- 
spoon of sugar, strain well and serve with boiled salmon. 

Mustard Sauce for Fresh Herring 

Mix one teaspoon of mustard, one dessertspoon of 
flour with three ounces of butter; stir in one gill of boiling 
water and a teaspoon of vinegar; boil five minutes and 
serve. 

Pineapple Sauce 

Make a good English brown sauce and when cooked 
strain and add one fresh pineapple, diced, let boil up once, 



Stxxffin^s, Savices, and Gravies 243 

then serve over boiled codfish that has had skin and bones 
removed and then been slightly flaked with a silver fork. 

Sardine Sauce 

Bone half a dozen large sardines, make an ordinary sauce 
of butter and stock, and in this boil the bones and skin with 
a minced onion, lemon peel, a bay leaf, a saltspoon each of 
pepper and salt, and a dash of nutmeg. Boil a half hour 
until well blended, then strain and add the sardine meat cut 
fine, and serve with boiled haddock. 

Sauce a la Alexandre Dumas 

This calls for a teaspoon of finely minced chives and the 
same amount of parsley, the juice of one onion, a table- 
spoon of olive oil, three drops of tobasco, half teaspoon 
Worcestershire sauce, a saltspoon of salt, a half saltspoon of 
pepper, teaspoon of tarragon vinegar, and a teaspoon of 
lemon juice. Mix thoroughly, and serve with raw oysters 
as a cocktail. 

SAUCES TO BE SERVED WITH MEAT, GAME, AND 
POULTRY 

Brown Onion Sauce 

Slice and fry six large onions in a stewpan with two 
ounces of butter ; stir them constantly until they are tender 
and beginning to brown, then pour over them a half pint 
of rich stock, add a saltspoon of pepper, a half teaspoon of 
salt, a tablespoon of Worcestershire sauce, and a tablespoon 
of chutney syrup. Let all simmer gently until the onions 
are very tender, skim off any fat that rises to the surface, 
then strain all through a puree sieve, put it back into the 
saucepan to warm, and when it boils up it is ready for use. 



244 Stvifl&ngs, Saiaces, and Gravies 

Brown Mushroom Sauce 

Put one half pint of good beef gravy into a saucepan, 
thicken slightly with butter and flour rubbed to a cream, 
add a saltspoon each of pepper and salt and a half pint of 
button mushrooms. Let all boil up and add a tablespoon 
of mushroom ketchup and the juice of an onion. This is 
an excellent sauce or gravy to serve with any roast meat. 

Carrot Sauce 

Take one large carrot, wash, scrape, and grate it; put a 
lump of butter the size of a walnut into a saucepan and 
when melted add the carrot, then a cup of good gravy or 
stock, a half teaspoon of salt, a saltspoon of pepper, a 
little finely chopped parsley, and a spoonful of lemon juice. 
Let it all stew until it is quite smooth and serve turned over 
the steak or, if preferred, in a sauce tureen. 

Chive Sauce 

Make a rich brown gravy of a cup of stock and a cup of 
milk, thickened with browned flour and butter worked to a 
paste. Add to the gravy three tablespoons of choi^ped 
chives, and rub the platter with a bud of garlic before plac- 
ing the breaded cutlet on it. Pour the gravy over the 
meat and serve hot. 

Cranberry Sauce to Serve with Turkey 

To one quart of cranberries add one pint of water; stew 
until tender, strain, and add to the juice a cup of sugar. 
Stew the juice down for ten minutes, turn into small molds, 
and serve when jelled. 

Cream Giblet Sauce 

Boil chicken giblets until tender, then chop fine and pour 
over them a tablespoon of good sherry. Make a rich cream 



Stuf&n^s, Saxices, and Gravies 245 

sauce ; when ready add the giblets and pour over hard-boiled 
eggs, sliced but not cut through, with crisp little pieces 
of bacon separating the slices. Garnish with olives and 
pimentos. 

French Onion Sauce, or Soubise 

Peel six onions, cut them into quarters, and put them 
in a stewpan with sufficient water to cover them. Add to 
them a bay leaf, a quarter saltspoon of pounded mace, the 
same amount of cayenne pepper, a quarter pound of minced 
ham, and boil until the onions are tender. Lift them 
when done and put them through a puree sieve. Have 
ready a half pint of hot bechamel sauce, put the pureed 
onions to it, and stir over the fire until it just boils up, then 
serve. 

Horseradish Sauce 

Take four tablespoons of grated horseradish, one teaspoon 
of sugar, one teaspoon of salt, a half teaspoon of pepper, 
two teaspoons of made mustard, and sufficient vinegar to 
moisten the ingredients. Just before serving, add three 
tablespoons of heavy cream. If one wishes the sauce hot, 
just set the dish it is in into a pan of hot water until the 
sauce is hot, but do not allow it to curdle. 

Mint Sauce 

To one cup of hot vinegar add four dessertspoons of 
chopped mint leaves and two dessertspoons of sugar. 
This sauce should be made two hours before using, keep- 
ing it warm one hour to extract all flavoring from the 
mint, then cooling. 

Marron Sauce for Fowls 

Take a half pint jar of the cooking marrons, drain and 
put them into a half pint of white stock, two strips of 



2^6 Stxjf&n^s, Sa\ices, and Gravies 

lemon peel, pepper, salt to taste, three drops of tobasco, 
a teaspoon of Worcestershire sauce, a tablespoon of 
chopped celery, a tablespoon of onion juice, and a half 
cup of the liquor the chestnuts were put up in; let simmer 
until the nuts are very tender, then rub them through a fine 
sieve, add a quarter pint of hot cream, and if the sauce 
is a little too thick, thin with a little hot milk. Serve very 
hot in a small gravy-boat. 

Olive Sauce 

Carefully stone a cup of olives, blanch them in boiling 
water, and throw them in cold water for five minutes. Take 
one half pint of red stock and heat; when it is hot add the 
olives and let them stew for half an hour. If necessary, 
thicken slightly with a little butter and flour rubbed to a 
cream, but do not have the sauce heavy. Add a teaspoon 
of lemon juice just before pouring it over the broiled steak. 

Orange Gravy 

Slice one small onion into a saucepan with a half pint 
of white stock, the juice of an orange, four strips of lemon 
peel, three leaves of sweet basil, and let the mixture simmer 
gently for fifteen minutes. Then add a glass of port wine, 
a saltspoon of salt, and a half saltspoon of pepper, and 
when it comes to boiling point serve very hot in a covered 
tureen. 

Parsley and Butter Sauce 

Take a good-sized bunch of parsley, wash carefully, and 
throw it into boiling salt water, let it boil five minutes, 
drain it, mince the leaves very fine, add the juice of an 
onion, a half saltspoon of red pepper, and pour over it in 
the tureen a half pint of smoothly made melted butter. 



Stujffin^s, Savices, and Gravies 247 

Sauce for Chops 

Mix with one cup of vinegar a teaspoon of grated horse- 
radish, one tomato, two Spanish peppers, two green peppers 
chopped, and cook for fifteen minutes. Strain through a 
sieve and serve with boiled meats or chops. 

Sauce Coquette 

Melt together one jar of good currant jelly with a"glass 
of port wine. Heat but do not allow it to boil. Serve 
in a hot tureen with roast duck or guinea fowls, or with 
saddle of venison. 

Sauce Piquante 

To one can of tomatoes add one onion, one bay leaf, a 
clove, a stalk of celery, carrot cut fine, a spray of parsley, 
a teaspoon of kitchen bouquet, a saltspoon of salt, a 
half saltspoon of pepper, and a half cupful of good tomato 
ketchup. Boil gently twenty minutes; if it boils away too 
rapidly add a little water. Strain and thicken with a 
blended butter and flour thickening, to the consistence of 
honey. Add some sliced olives and serve. 

Sauce Robert 

Put two ounces of butter into a stewpan and throw 
into it three onions cut very fine; fry them a delicate brown, 
add one teaspoon of flour, and shake the onions well with it, 
then add a half cup of heavy stock, season with a teaspoon 
of mustard sauce, a teaspoon of tarragon vinegar, and the 
juice of half a lemon. When thoroughly mixed and heated 
pour over the broiled steak that is waiting on a hot platter. 

Sweet and Sour Sauce for Steak 

Brown a half cup of sugar with one tablespoon of flour, 
in a frying pan ; add a half cup of stock, three quarters of a 



248 StviiB&n^s, Sauces, and Gravies 

cup of vinegar, a saltspoon of pepper, a half teaspoon of 
salt, and a teaspoon of Worcestershire sauce, and cook until 
very smooth, stirring constantly so that it does not catch 
or burn. 

White Mushroom Sauce 

Make a good cream sauce, not too thick. Prepare the 
fresh mushrooms in the usual way, saute them in butter for 
five or six minutes, then drain and put them into the sauce. 
The smaller sized mushrooms are best for this purpose, 
but if larger ones are used cut the flaps into four pieces. 
This sauce is excellent to serve with broiled veal cutlets. 

Wahiut Gravy 

This may be used successfully with sweetbreads par- 
boiled and diced, or with breast of chicken, either cooked 
and boned at home or imported in glass from England. 
Chop or grind four tablespoons of English walnuts and 
put them in a pan with a large tablespoon of butter. Fry 
until the walnuts brown, stirring constantly to keep them 
from burning. Pour on one pint of very rich stock and let 
simmer half an hour. Just before serving thicken with one 
tablespoon of flour, blended with a little butter, and add a 
few drops of onion juice, a few drops of kitchen bouquet, 
and a teaspoon of Mandalay sauce or chutney. Lay in the 
sweetbread or breast of chicken just a minute or two to 
heat, then serve garnished with olive rings or curls and 
parsley. 

Hot Spice 

This is excellent to add to sauces and gravies. Take 
two saltspoons each of ground ginger, black pepper, cinna- 
mon, seven cloves, a quarter teaspoon of mace, a saltspoon 
of cayenne pepper, one half teaspoon of grated nutmeg, and 
one and a half saltspoons of white pepper. Pound the 



St\jfi6ngs, Sauces, and Gravies 249 

ingredients and mix them thoroughly together, and when 
blended put them into a wide-mouthed, clean, dry bottle 
and cork it tightly. 

The various meat and game essences used in high-class 
cookery are also a great aid in sauce seasoning, and truffles, 
mushrooms, and nuts in powdered form are always a rich 
addition, as are the so-called sweet herbs and spices. 



FOOD GARNISHES AND THEIR MAKING 

The art of garnishing food dishes attractively has been 
brought to its present high state of perfection chiefly by 
the French chefs, though each nation has some special 
ways of accomplishing the same end by the use of things 
native to their surroundings. The modem table, however, 
combines all of the ideas developed for this purpose. When 
not procurable in one's own country, bottled, canned, dried, 
boxed, preserved, or candied dainties which are famous in 
their own localites are used and though the foods are not 
quite in their original state, yet they make very effective 
substitutes, and to those who have not met them before 
they are quite as good. 

The old-fashioned idea of garnishing merely for the pleas- 
ure of the appearance has gradually been done away with, 
so that now the only up-to-date garnish which is permissible 
is the edible one. Nearly all dishes require some sort of 
garnish suitable to them, and a variety of ideas will come to 
the cook with practice and a little experimenting; there is 
very little written on this subject to guide her, but frequent 
visits to public dining places will give her hints that she 
may adopt and improve upon according to her interest in 
the subject and the materials she has at hand to work with. 

To the cook who makes a specialty of garnishing, the 
supply of tools is quite formidable. It includes knives for 
all sorts of plain and fancy cutting, not only for the cutting 
of vegetables, but of meats, dough, fruits, and eggs; tiny, 
fancy cutters of all kinds for vegetables; wheel cutters to 
strip vegetables and meats, egg slicers, fruit corers and 
parers, olive pitters, potato curlers, hashinettes for mincing 

250 



Food GarnisHes and tKeir MaKing 251 

garnishes, pastry bags, and all sorts of tubes through which 
mashed potato and other vegetables, the yolks of hard- 
boiled eggs, and whipped cream may be squeezed and 
thus prettily garnish planked dishes; various grapefruit 
and orange cutters, kitchen scissors, and so on through a 
seemingly interminable list. 

Perhaps the simplest way of giving directions about 
the proper garnishes for different dishes is to take the dinner 
courses one by one. First one must remind the garnish 
maker that everything for this use must be of the freshest, 
must be carefully washed, cooled or cooked just right, and 
prepared with appropriate tools. 

Canapes of different sorts, served oftentimes before the 
soup, are pretty garnished with finely chopped red pepper, 
cold-boiled egg put through a ricer, thinly sliced truffles 
cut in fancy shapes, or olive curls. These last are made by 
paring the olive round and round like an apple until free 
from the stone, then spreading the inside with a little 
sardine or anchovy paste and laying them over the top of the 
canape. Shrimps split and dipped in fancy sauces; button 
mushrooms which have been sauted in butter and drained ; 
rings of cucumber that have been hollowed out, stuffed 
with pat^ de foie gras, and cut in slices; pepper or cold 
boiled egg-white rings, sprays of cress, parsley, tarragon, 
and chervil leaves ; all these are good to use with the vari- 
ous sauces which go with the canapes. 

The various broths are simply garnished with a spoonful 
of whipped cream, a spray of parsley or toasted croutons. 
The soups have the different macaroni preparations to 
vary the clear ones with, besides dumplings, noodles, toast 
squares, egg rings, diced meat, and vegetables. Spinach 
balls are made of boiled spinach chopped, drained, and 
seasoned, then mixed with a few fried bread crumbs and the 
beaten white of an egg; they are then rolled into shape, 
placed in the tureen, and the clear soup poured over them. 

For broiled fish, sprays of parsley drawn through slices of 
lemon cut thin and stuffed baked peppers or tomatoes in 



252 Food GamisKes and tHeir MaKin^ 

turnip croquettes, French peas in beet baskets, shrimps 
rolled in lemon juice and then in minced tarragon leaves, or 
sprays of fried parsley. Boiled fish depends on the sauce 
used with it for part of its garnish. Aside from this, 
lemon quarters and parsley are generally used. For baked 
fish one may use cold boiled eggs cut in fancy ways, carrots 
cut in odd shapes, after being boiled tender and cooled, 
green tomatoes sliced and fried, oysters rolled in thin slices 
of bacon and fried, or chopped mushrooms which have been 
sauted in butter, drained, and arranged in a half hard- 
boiled egg-white cut lengthwise. For cold fish sprays of 
parsley, tarragon, chervil, or cress are used with lemon 
sliced or quartered, and sometimes dipped in minced parsley. 

Cold meats are garnished in much the same way as cold 
fish, with the addition of radish roses, lettuce leaves filled 
with potato or egg salads, cucumber fingers, cold deviled 
vegetables, pineapple sticks, red peppers filled with mace- 
doine salad, artichoke hearts in vinaigrette, French sausage 
pasties, Spanish peppers, violet mustard, mustard and 
fine herbs, or pickled corn. 

Hot meats have all sorts of croquettes as edible garnish. 
There are tiny vegetable souffles; rolled pancakes filled 
with savory filling, then tied with a spray of willow grass; 
grilled vegetables and macaroni and cheese in ramekins; 
large steamed artichoke hearts with minced curried ham 
heaped on them, or the hearts split and stuffed with savory 
minced calf's liver; potato puffs, molded jellies, and vege- 
table aspic jelly. Various gravies and sauces also add to the 
garnish effects. 

Sweet garnishes are really in another class ; still they may 
be touched upon here. Angelica and citron, pineapple 
sticks, preserved and candied fruits, powdered macaroons, 
stuffed raisins, prunes, and dates, halved or powdered 
nuts, glaced fruits, kisses, marrons, fruit compotes and 
sauces, fancy jellies, and fruit aspic are a few of the better 
known garnishes which may be used according to the taste 
of the cook. 



Kood GarnisKes and tKeir Making 253 

Tee creams frozen in fancy shapes require no extra gar- 
nishes, nor do the creams that are served with fancy sauces 
or in melons, unless one desires to use cherries or cubes of 
fresh fruit. 

Candied rose leaves or mint leaves are pretty scattered 
over fruit salads, and nasturtium blossoms and leaves 
are pretty with beet leaves for garnishing cold meat or 
fish entrees. Omelets are generally garnished with some- 
thing that indicates their filling. Sweet ones may have 
whipped cream roses with cherry or nut centers; Spanish 
omelet takes chopped red peppers or green pepper strips, 
ham omelet has egg and olive rings, meat omelets have thinly 
sliced truffles, and those filled with fine herbs take fried 
parsley and lemon thinly sliced. 

A few large seeded raisins added to a brown sauce with a 
little heap of chopped red pepper improve its appearance. 
A dusting of savory herbs and mignonette pepper through 
a fancy tube improves both the appearance and the flavor 
of a white sauce. Pastry fingers sprinkled with grated 
cheese and cayenne pepper before baking are good with 
salad and should be piled log cabin fashion on a doily. 
Bread sippets are always a useful garnish; after being shaped 
they may be either toasted or fried in butter. 



RARE TRIFLES FOR THE TABLE 

There are many imported delicacies shown in the choicer 
food shops which afford an occasional variation for the 
daily fare, and at the same time give interesting glimpses of 
the countries from which they come. 

Small sweet potatoes from Mexico are sent to France, 
where they are prepared in a thin sweetened syrup, with a 
strip of vanilla bean. Placed in a wide-mouthed bottle, 
they are sealed and sent back to America to be used as a 
salad or a relish to be eaten with cold meat. They taste a 
bit like French chestnuts. 

Orange marmalade from Egypt shows the fruit cut in 
small quarters in a heavy jelly. It is prepared so that 
it is quite as tender as when done in the old way and has a 
flavor peculiarly its own. 

"Heart of Palm" comes in tall, slender glass bottles for 
the making of the dainties of salads. It also comes in 
cans ready for a puree, and in small bottles, spiced and 
seasoned, ready to use as a relish. It looks like stalks of 
giant asparagus, and is the color and texture of the pine- 
apple. 

Huckleberries from the Alps have less acid and are sweeter 
than those Americans are acquainted with and they are 
delightful to serve with fresh cream cheese. Wild straw- 
berries from France, fresh preserved prunes, pared white 
grapes, and mixed fruits in strange syrups, are some of the 
things good to serve with ice cream. 

Japanese kumquats and fresh figs stand on the preserve 
shelf beside bottles of tiny fresh limes and real roses in 
syrup. Macedoine of vegetables for salads and soups, 

254 



Rare Trifles for tKe Table 255 

large French asparagus, artichokes, tiny turnips with olives, 
and carrots with olives are other bottled novelties. 

Sardines and other small fishes, put up with truffles, 
pickles, or pimentos, in sauces or in oils, offer wide choice. 
Odd relishes include pickled seaweed, spiced nasturtium 
buds, tiny ears of corn from France, so tender that they are 
eaten cob and all, and many varieties of the olive family 
variously stuffed. 

In company with the usual French and German mustard 
pots, there are those containing mustard combined with 
fine herbs which color it a beautiful green, mustard with 
horseradish, and a lilac-colored mustard, "Violette de 
Brive," all of which are aristocrats in the land of condiments. 

Russia contributes caviar and several oddly prepared 
fish. English and Irish bacon, Virginia hams, Italian sau- 
sages and bolognas also engage the attention of the buyer 

Fresh cream cheese made to order and molded into heart- 
shaped baskets is not to be used as an adjunct to the salad 
course, but is eaten as a dessert with a favorite jelly or jam. 
Not to be overlooked among the cheeses of all nations is the 
Blue Stilton of England, a luxury in the cheese market. 

There are wonderful pates that are to be eaten cold. 
When served, they have their pastry covers lifted and the 
guest removes a portion with a hot spoon. 

Among the fresh daily offerings is the orchid salad with 
its delicate red-shaded coloring and dainty flavor. It has 
to be pulled fresh daily, for_ it does not keep like its ple- 
beian green cousins, but promptly shrivels and decays if 
allowed to stand overnight. This dainty was once the 
exclusive salad used on the tables of Italian royalty. To 
raise it in the United States a specially prepared soil has 
been imported and experimented with. 

"Heart of palm relish" is new. It is made of the 
heart of palm cut fine and seasoned all ready to turn out 
of the bottle onto the toast, in squares or rounds, as pre- 
ferred. With a little red pepper strip garnish it is ready to 
serve. 



256 IVare Trifles for tHe Table 

Japanese mushroom hors d'oeuvre is new and delicious. 
It comes in little bottles that hold enough for four persons 
if it is served as it is and for six if anything is added to it. 
The mushrooms are gray on the outside and white at the 
heart, so they are decorative as well as good. Blanched 
almonds and tiny green melons are among the ingredients 
it contains. This may be served on toast rounds lightly 
spread with anchovy paste or pate de foie gras, and gar- 
nished with egg rings and olive curls. 

The possibilities of the Madagascar artichoke hearts 
are many. For a relish one may scoop out the center with 
a teaspoon and fill it with sardines flaked and mixed with a 
little chopped red pepper, half a teaspoon of lemon juice, 
and a few drops of onion juice. Six artichokes are in each 
can. 

A new cheese has appeared that can be used for the salad 
course or as a dessert itself. It is made fresh daily and is 
called "Petits Gervais." The cheese comes in a little roll 
and belongs to the cream cheese family but has a flavor 
and texture peculiar to itself. For the salad course it is 
served with crackers in the usual way. When used for 
dessert it is sliced, and preserved wild strawberries are 
served with it, or any other rich preserve, jelly, or jam. 

Macaroni, colored green by spinach and red by tomato, 
is used the same as the white, but it makes very decorative 
additions to the vegetable course to use the green, plain 
boiled, around panned spinach with a good drawn butter 
sauce; and the red boiled and arranged around stuffed 
and baked tomatoes with a highly seasoned smooth tomato 
sauce over all. 

Imported game pates which come tinned may be made 
into most acceptable entrees by heating and adding to 
them a suitable sauce. The imported mousse and the 
puree of game, fish, and vegetables are especially good for 
sandwich use and are excellent by way of adding variety 
to those better known. 

French sausages come in a can and are quite different 



IVare Trifles for tKe Table 257 

from our own American product. They must be cut and 
mashed fine and flavored with a teaspoon of the green 
mustard which contains fine herbs, a saltspoon of pepper, 
a saltspoon of salt, and a few drops of onion juice. Spread 
them on the toast rounds and garnish the canapes with a 
little chopped red pepper and an olive. 

New relishes include the " Churisette, " made of hop 
sprouts, nasturtium buds, cherries, and fresh mushrooms. 
They are drained and served on pieces of round toast. 
" Otero" is made of pimentoes, tiny French melons, truffles, 
and mushrooms, while "Shimsji" has the nuts, melons, 
and several other savory ingredients. 

Herring roes or filets in oil are nice, drained then mari- 
nated in French dressing, to use for salad with red pepper 
and celery. 

Tomato Baskets 

Select small, high tomatoes. Cut the pulp away on 
each side at right angles, leaving a handle for the basket 
made of the base of the tomato, the basket standing on its 
stem end. Use for holding individual portions of tartare 
sauce to serve with fish. Arrange around the platter and 
serve one with each portion. 

Aspic Jelly 

Put one and a half ounces of powdered gelatine into a 
saucepan with three and a half cups of good red stock, two 
bay leaves, four cloves, a small bunch of parsley, a small 
turnip diced, and a diced carrot, a blade of mace and a 
small broken stick of cinnamon, six sweet peppers, the 
juice and the rind of one lemon, one sliced onion, and a 
teaspoon of salt. Let all boil gently for forty minutes, 
skimming carefully as it boils. When done have a jelly bag 
squeezed out of hot water and turn the jelly into it; allow 
the jelly to drain over a wet mold. Do not squeeze the 
17 



25^ Rare Trifles for tKe Table 

bag as to do so clouds the jelly. Just before taking the 
jelly from the fire the whites and shells of two eggs should 
be added and stirred in thoroughly. The eggs clarify 
the jelly. A white stock used in place of the red stock 
will make the jelly a light color, while a cup of tomato 
juice will deepen the color when the red stock is used. 

Aspic Jelly for Decoration 

The aspic jelly may be poured into a wet dish about a 
quarter of an inch deep, and when it sets it may be cut 
with little pastry cutters into stars, half moons, blocks, 
diamonds, roses, or any odd form for use as an edible garnish, 
or it may be turned into a wet dish, and just before it sets it 
may be covered with rows of cooked macaroni cut into 
rings, fancy-shaped vegetables, or chopped shrimp; if the 
macaroni is used place in the center of each ring a dot of 
chopped nut or pickle. When this is a little firm, pour over 
another layer, dusting the top with a little finely chopped 
parsley and paprika. When set and chilled cut in fancy 
shapes with cutters and use for the garnishing of fish or 
salads. Another way, before the jelly is set, to decorate the 
top is to put two cold boiled eggs through the ricer, dis- 
tributing it evenly over the surface. This surface may 
then be dotted with chopped beet or olives, or with little 
sprigs of parsley. 

Spinach Coloring 

This natural coloring is very easily made and is very 
good for the purpose. Pick and wash two handfuls of 
spinach, pound the leaves in a mortar to extract the juice; 
then press through a sieve and put the juice into a tiny 
stewpan or double boiler. Let it come to almost boiling 
point, but do not let it boil. As soon as it is done place it 
in a sieve, so that all the water may drain from it; then 
the green will be ready for coloring. 



IVare Trifles for tKe Table 259 

Stuffed Tomato as a Garnish 

Select the small yellow or red tomatoes, allowing one 
for each portion. Put the tomatoes in boiling water for 
two minutes to remove the skin, remove a portion of the 
pulp, and fill with any appetizing mixture, such as dressed 
crab flakes, caviar, celery, cucumber, or use simply the 
tomato pulp dressed with mayonnaise. 

Spanish Relish for Salad Course 

Porto de Menzanas, a Spanish dish to use with the salad 
course — Cream together a quarter of a pound of Roquefort 
cheese and a third as much fresh butter, add a teaspoon 
of Worcestershire sauce and a dessertspoon of chutney 
syrup and mix all into a smooth paste, adding, if necessary, 
a little sweet cream if the paste is too heavy. Peel, core, 
and slice the round way enough russet apples to allow two 
slices to a portion, spread them with the paste, dust with 
paprika, and serve. These are specially good with the 
alligator pear salad. 

Curry Powder 

One ounce each of ginger, mustard, and pepper, three 
ounces of coriander, one of tumeric, one half an ounce of 
cardamom and one quarter each of Cayenne pepper and 
cummin seed. Pound all well and sift fine, cork tight in a 
bottle, and use one teaspoon to flavor a sauce with. 

Some Salad Garnishes 

Among the prettiest salad garnishes are the young beet 
leaves in the soft reds and greens, combined with nasturtium 
flowers and buds in the different shaded yellows. Line 
the salad bowl with the leaves, put in the salad and add 
the flowers around the edge against the leaves and put a 
bunch in the center. The beet and carrot roses cut with a 



26o Rare Trifles for tKe Table 

tiny vegetable cutter make good garnishes with parsley. 
The boiled egg rings and the green pepper rounds are effec- 
tive, especially with fish. Grape leaves are pretty to serve 
small fruits on in a deep saucer. Strips of angelica, citron, 
candied fruits, and fresh flowers are used for the sweet 
garnishes. 

Meat Glaze 

Dissolve a half ounce of powdered gelatine in one cup 
of hot water, add one heaping teaspoon of a good meat 
extract, a saltspoon of salt, and a saltspoon of pepper. 
Cook down until it coats a spoon or for about ten minutes; 
then pour into a jar and keep tightly covered in a cold place. 
When wanted for use place the jar in a larger vessel of hot 
water until it has dissolved; coat the meat lightly with the 
glaze, using a brush. This is especially suitable for cold 
tongue, ham, pressed meats, or game. If desired, a few 
drops of red coloring may be added to the glaze to give it a 
more brilliant appearance. 

To Brown Flour 

Take a cup of wheat flour and spread it evenly on a 
smooth jelly cake tin, set it in a moderate oven, and as it 
dries stir it carefully and watch it until it gets the proper 
shade of dark brown, but do not upon any account allow the 
flour to scorch, as that ruins the flavor. While it is in the 
oven stir it often enough to keep the color even and when 
done turn it into a wide-mouthed jar and cover tightly. 
This will color gravies while thickening them and is much 
richer than the white flour. 

To Dry Sage 

When drying sage for winter use it is well to pick it 
the day after a good rain and after the sun has dried off the 
leaves. Strip the leaves from the stalks, dry them carefully 



Rare Trifles for tKe Table 261 

on sheets of white blotting paper, and when fairly dry place 
in a cooling oven at night to finish them. Then pack away 
in airtight jars, powdering for the flavor only as many as 
are needed at a time. 

Frosted Holly Leaves 

Select fresh sprays of holly, pick the leaves from the 
stalks, wipe the leaves clean, then place them on a pan near 
the fire to get thoroughly dry, but do not allow them to 
shrivel. Then dip them into melted butter, sprinkle them 
with coarsely powdered sugar, and then dry them before the 
fire, pack in wax-paper lined box, and store in a dry place. 
These leaves make very pretty winter garnishes. 

Home Stuffed Olives 

Stuffed olives are accounted among the table delicacies 
and are rather expensive to use freely on the at-home menu. 
They are also restricted to four or five fillings, the better 
known of these being pimento, celery, blanched almond, 
anchovy, and a smaller olive ; but at home many other fill- 
ings are possible and if one is equipped with an olive- 
pitting machine the olives may be prepared simply and 
easily to receive the various fillings. 

There are three excellent varieties of olives that come in 
bottles and in bulk, these being the French olives from 
Provence, the Spanish Olives, and the Italian olives from the 
city of Lucca. California olives, too, are very fine and 
may be favorably compared with the best European ones. 

The fresh olives put up in oil are fast coming into general 
favor for use in salads, sauces, and relishes, and are well 
liked by most people who have tried them; but the olive 
most generally liked is the one put up in the slightly salted 
brine, the largest variety of which is the best to buy for 
at-home stuffing, this usually being the Spanish olive, its 
slightly bitter taste adds a certain distinctive flavor that 
combines well with any sort of stuffing. 



262 R.are Trifles for tKe Table 

When ready to stuff olives for any special occasion take 
from the bottle, or from the crock if they have been pur- 
chased in bulk, as many as are needed for the occasion and 
rinse them in cold water. Next pit them with the oHve 
pitter and drop them into cold water to firm them while 
preparing the stuffing. The most convenient instrument 
for the stuffing of olives is the little silver marrow fork. 
After the olives are stuffed, they should be laid between 
lettuce leaves and kept very cold so that they do not dry 
out. 

To serve with chicken salad, the olives are very good when 
stuffed with sardine paste, well seasoned; with red peppers 
and lemon juice, or with p4te de fois gras, a few drops of 
onion juice, a saltspoon of mignonette pepper, and a tea- 
spoon of chutney syrup. 

To serve with lobster salad the oHves may be stuffed 
with a filling made of a little crab meat, to which a little 
chopped red pepper and a chopped gherkin, pepper and 
salt to taste, and enough mayonnaise to make a paste have 
been added; or they may be stuffed with a little cream cheese 
which has had half the amount of Roquefort cheese added 
to it, with enough French dressing to make a smooth paste 
and a few very finely chopped pecan nuts. 

To use stuffed olives with a fruit salad, fill them with a 
paste made of cream cheese and orange marmalade, enough 
sweet cream being used to bring the paste to the proper 
consistency; or cream cheese with chopped pecan nuts 
and honey enough to make a paste will be found excellent. 

For the vegetable salad steam open six clams, chop them 
fine and drain, add to them a little chopped red pepper and 
a teaspoon of fried bread crumbs, also enough mayonnaise 
to bind the mixture into a paste; or the olives may be 
stuffed with dry grated cheese moistened with a little apple 
sauce. 

A novel breakfast dish will be found in olive tarts. The 
tart shells are made of pie crust and are large enough to 
hold four olives each. The olives are stuffed with well- 



Rare Trifles for tKe Table 263 

seasoned sausage meat, then laid in the shells, dusted with 
pepper, salt, a teaspoon of fine bread crumbs, a teaspoon of 
grated cheese, and a tablespoon of English brown sauce. 
Bake the tarts in a moderate oven until the crust is done 
and then serve them on a hot platter garnished with fresh 
cress and sliced broiled potatoes. 

A good luncheon dish is made of the olives stuffed with 
a little red pepper and minced chicken which has been made 
to a paste by adding a little whipped cream. Now drain 
and halve one can of button mushrooms, fry them a delicate 
brown in butter, have ready a pint of English brown sauce, 
put the olives into it, and let them simmer gently until 
tender. Then add the fried mushrooms, have ready one 
small loaf of baker's bread carefully hollowed out, leaving 
the top to serve as a cover, whole. A bow of ribbon may 
be drawn through this and tied on top to serve as a handle. 
Into this bread shell turn the olive and mushroom mixture, 
put on the cover, and garnish with lemon quarters and 
parsley. 

Another good luncheon dish is made by stuffing the olives 
with a little finely minced cold roast beef, to which a little 
grated onion has been added, with pepper, salt, and a tea- 
spoon of chutney syrup. Stew the olives gently, after 
stuffing them, in a pint of rich red stock. When they are 
done take them out with a skimmer and lay them on a hot 
plate ; then slip into the stock a few thin slices of cold roast 
beef; when these are hot and have boiled up once, take them 
up with a fork and lay them on a hot platter, turn the 
oHves over them, slightly thicken the gravy and turn it 
over all. Garnish the dish with toast sippets and parsley, 
and fried sweet potatoes. 

Olives enter into the making of many different cooked, 
as well as uncooked, sauces. If they are to be used for a 
cooked sauce, however, it is a good idea to cook them first 
in fair water until they are tender, which is usually from 
eighteen to twenty-five minutes with the stones in, and 
generally about fifteen when they have been stoned before 



264 Rare Trifles for tKe Table 

cooking. The olives do not lose their color in boiling in 
fair water if left uncovered and ^-ept boiling constantly. 
The water should be changed twice during the boiling to 
remove the salty brine taste. Olives stoned, then boiled 
in this way, may be carefully drained and added to a rich 
cream sauce into which six truffles have been sliced and 
served as a vegetable with broiled sweetbreads. They will 
be quite a relief from the ever-present green peas. 



VEGETABLES 

To have plenty of fresh, properlj cooked vegetables on 
the home table is a piece of econoniy as well as an adjunct 
to good health not to be lightly considered. 

First, the vegetables must be good, fresh, and up to the 
season's standard. Second, they must be clean, for nothing 
is as bad or inexcusable as insuSciently washed roots or 
green stu5. Those destined to cook in boiling water should 
be put in boiling and not tepid '^Tater. Those that are to 
be cooked in cold water need not stay in cold water aE day 
on the back of the stove so as to be ready, getting sodden 
and flabby, although thinly sliced potatoes for frying are 
better to stand in cold water for a while to remove the starch 
from them, as they fry better. 

Some vegetables are decidedly medicinal in their quali- 
ties. Take the asparagus, for instance; it always haa been 
looked upon as diuretic, containing albumin a nd some 
salts, also a substance sirni"^ar to sago. Beans and peas 
are considered quite as nutritious as meat. Endive, 
chicory, and other lettuces are considered the best possible 
solvents of bile. The cucu m ber a nd melon families have 
the laxative properties, whi le the celery is the ns^dne. 
Carrots and spinach bring the iron to the blood ??-nrf clear 
the complexiorL Horseradish is a great spring stimulant 
to the stomach a nd forms the basis of a number of tonics, 
tinctures, and syrups. The onion contains volatile oil, 
sulphur, albumin, phosphoric add, and lime; boiled they are 
most apt to agree with the general stomach, thoti^ raw 
and fried they are also popular, and baked are very tasty. 

265 



266 "Vegetables 

They form the basis of many flavorings and are excellent 
for the liver and the skin. 

A few ideas along the line of what effect different foods 
have upon the system may help in choosing that which 
particularly suits the family needs. 

The parsnip is quite a nourishing vegetable and a meal 
made from it makes a palatable bread which when toasted 
is good for children and invalids. Next to the cereals 
the potato is the most valuable plant for the production of 
human food. Sea kale raised on the English and Irish 
shores is very light and easily digested and is a stimulant 
with the same properties as East Indian asparagus. The 
tomato used as an esculent is endowed with many properties 
of more or less value to the human system and has grown 
to be a great table staple, in sauces, soups, ketchup, and 
stews, and raw for salads. 

The native corn has the same nutritive qualities that are 
contained in the asparagus and green peas. Truffles, 
mushrooms, and turnips seem to be of doubtful food value 
and the cabbage family comes under the same law, the cauli- 
flower being the most easily digested member of the family. 

Apples purify the blood, feed the brain, help to eliminate 
impurities from the system. They should be ripe when 
eaten, and may be scraped for little children, who are not 
likely to masticate their food carefully enough. Bananas 
contain considerable phosphorus and are easily digested. 
They are specially good for mental workers. Chestnuts 
contain a large proportion of starch, and when boiled and 
sprinkled with salt are nutritious and easily digested. 
Dates and figs have many of the same properties, and are 
warming, nourishing, and sustaining, besides having laxative 
properties. 

Tomatoes are good for everyone Inclined to a sluggish 
liver, as is endive, the famous bile destroyer. All the old 
superstitions as to their creating cancer and making rheu- 
matic conditions have been exploded. Strawberries contain 
phosphorus and iron, which make them particularly good 



Vegetables 267 

for anasmic persons. Lettuce is purifying to the blood and 
soothing to the system. Celery has much the same effect 
upon the system. Spinach is rich in iron, and carrots 
and beets are most useful in the diet manual. Humanity 
should make a courtesy to the onion family as a whole, 
for each branch is of incalculable value in health insurance. 

It is claimed for the ordinary white or Irish potato that 
next to the cereals it is the most valuable plant for the pro- 
duction of human food. It is in the starch quality that the 
nutritive properties are contained, and there are few with 
whom they do not agree and who do not thrive on the 
liberal use of them as a daily food. 

Early spring asparagus cannot be used too freely by those 
who enjoy its flavor. It is one of nature's natural kid- 
ney physics. 

What substitute our best chefs and home cooks would 
use if suddenly deprived of the aromatic onion, which plays 
such a prominent part in savory dishes, is a problem. The 
onion, leek, garlic, and shalot belong to the same family 
and show many of the same traits, each throwing off an 
acrid and penetrating acid which brings tears to the eyes of 
the most cheerful cook during the operation of paring them. 

The onion is not only used as a vegetable, flavorer, and 
general cooking agent, but medicinally it is highly valued, 
the onion tea being a remedy for gall stones and rheumatic 
troubles. The leek is used almost entirely as the soup and 
stew flavorer; garlic is used most sparingly, as it requires 
only a trifle to strongly flavor anything with which it comes 
in contact. The shalot being the tenderest is used in the 
so-called fancy dishes with the wine and cream sauces, but 
the onion is usable in a dozen or more independent dishes. 

It is well to remember that all green things that grow 
above ground should be cooked in water that must boil as 
they are added. The pot should not be covered or the 
vegetables lose their color. All the root crops may be put 
on in cold water and allowed to boil covered to make them 
tender. 



268 "Vegetables 

Cabbage is not nearly as much used as it might be in the 
variation of our table vegetables. Prejudice has much 
to do with its non-appreciation by the family, though it is 
treasured below stairs. Perhaps its plebeian origin, coupled 
with its long association with corned beef, may have some- 
thing to do with the matter. However, it is time to separate 
it from the aforesaid beef and try it in some of the many 
good ways which have restored it, in a number of localities, 
to the home table. 

Of course, there is one fundamental rule governing the 
cooking of all vegetables — that when a vegetable is tender 
enough to be pierced easily by a fork, it is perfectly cooked 
and should be removed from the fire at once. Besides 
this general rule, however, which most women know, there 
are countless little rules which, if observed, will greatly 
enhance the flavor of certain vegetables. 

Beets, parsnips, turnips, corn, peas, and winter squash, 
for instance, must always have sugar in their seasoning — 
about twice as much as the quantity of salt. Squash is 
drier, and of better flavor, when baked or steamed. Onions 
are void of all offense if parboiled for ten minutes with a 
level teaspoonful of ginger in the water, then boiled as usual 
in salted water. When they are cooked in this way, there 
is no odor in the house nor on the breath, and no indiges- 
tion is caused. They should be boiled fast, and uncovered. 

All vegetables should be kept dry and cool. Lettuce 
and other things designed for salad use are the only ones 
that require close proximity to the ice, but it is better for 
them not to come in direct contact with it. 

For variety as the winter advances let the housekeeper 
try the dried vegetables. There are a number of them and 
with proper treatment they are quite a refreshing change 
from the canned things. Perhaps the navy beans are the 
oldest and best known acquaintances in the dried line, and 
there is nothing nicer for Sunday morning breakfast than a 
pot of properly baked "Boston baked beans." 

To be just right the beans should soak several hours, 



Vegetables 269 

then be boiled until they are tender, with a pinch of bicar- 
bonate of soda added to the water as they boil. When 
done place them in the deep dish or pot with a piece of 
pickled pork, well scored, in the center, a half cup of 
molasses, pepper, salt, then fill the dish with the liquor 
they were boiled in, cover, and bake for several hours. 
When nearly time to serve, uncover them and let them 
brown. The dried lima beans, after thoroughly soaking 
for several hours, may be boiled until tender, then served 
with a French sauce of melted butter, pepper, salt, a dash 
of sugar, and a tablespoon of vinegar. They also make a 
most excellent salad mixed with chopped nuts and green 
peppers, with a French dressing. 

The haricot and the red kidney beans are good soaked and 
boiled, then used with a cream dressing. Lentils are 
greatly in favor for broths and soup foundations or to add 
to the stock pot to give richness to it. The green or yellow 
split peas are well known and liked for soups and purees. 
The dried mushrooms are very handy for soups and sauces 
as well, and a half pound will do wonders in the hand of the 
experienced cook. Dried red peppers may be soaked in 
olive oil for a while, then be quite in condition to stuff 
and bake or use in salads. 

Fileted Artichokes 

Use the Jerusalem artichokes. Pare and boil them until 
tender in clear water, cut in thick slices, roll in egg and fine 
crumbs, and fry a delicate brown. Serve garnished with 
lemon and parsley sauce. The sauce is made by melting 
one ounce of butter and stirring into it a half ounce of flour. 
When smooth, add a quarter of a pint of milk and stir 
until it boils, add a tablespoon of chopped parsley, dash of 
pepper and salt, and six drops of tarragon vinegar. 

Artichokes 

Take six artichokes, wash carefully, then plunge into a 
half gallon of boiling water containing a soup bunch, a 



270 "Vegetables 

tablespoon of salt, and a teaspoon of pepper. Boil until 
a leaf may be easily pulled out, remove and drain them; 
serve in a napkin with raelted butter or a rich white sauce. 

Time for cooking thirty minutes. Sufficient for six 
persons. 

Jerusalem Artichokes a la Tarragon 

Pare and boil fifteen medium-sized Jerusalem artichokes 
thirty minutes. When done put them in a hot covered 
dish and turn over them a sauce made of a half cup of 
melted butter to which add a teaspoon of lemon juice, a 
half saltspoon of red pepper, and a saltspoon of salt. Wash 
and strip the leaves from four stems of tarragon, chop the 
leaves fine, and add them to the sauce. Serve at once gar- 
nished with toast sippets. This should serve six people. 

Escalloped Aguacate (Alligator Pear) 

Pare, seed, and dice two pears and add to them one cup 
of fine cracker dust. Put in a buttered pudding dish, dust 
with a half saltspoon of pepper, a saltspoon of salt, a tea- 
spoon of sugar, and a grating of English cheese. Break two 
eggs into a cup of cream and pour all over the mixture. 
Bake a delicate brown in a medium oven. Bake thirty 
minutes. This should be sufficient for four people. 

Boiled Apples with Cream and Cheese Sauce 

Pare, core, and boil six large tart apples until tender 
when pierced with a straw. Drain and set them on a hot 
dish. Have ready a rich cream sauce, not too thick ; add 
to it a tablespoon of sugar and a half cup of grated cheese. 
Pour the sauce over the apples and serve. 

Boiled Asparagus 

Wash and trim a bunch of fresh asparagus; tic the stalks 
with kitchen tape in as many small bundles as there are 



Vegetables 271 

portions to be served. Plunge them in a deep, round pot 
of boiling water that has a teaspoon of salt in it. The pot 
should be small enough around so that the asparagus stands 
up as it boils. The water should be kept one inch below 
the tops of the tips. In this way the fleshy stalks will boil 
tender, while the steam will cook the tips. When it has 
boiled twenty minutes it may be drained and served with 
butter, cream, or any other sauce liked. 

As boiled asparagus forms the basis for many dishes the 
boiling process, always the same, need not be spoken of 
again. 

Baked Asparagus and Lettuce 

Take four heads of firm lettuce, cut off the stalks and 
carefully remove the white centers, which may be used for 
salad. Have ready two cups of cold boiled asparagus 
tips. Put a portion in each lettuce head, with a saltspoon of 
pepper, a half teaspoon of salt, and a tablespoon of butter, 
and tie the lettuce firmly around the top with kitchen tape. 
Place the heads in a deep baking pan and pour around them 
a cup of well seasoned red stock. Cover for ten minutes, 
until the lettuce is steamed; then remove the cover and 
let it cook ten minutes longer. Remove carefully from the 
pan with a long-handled skimmer; let the gravy boil down 
to one half, then add a very little thickening and half a cup 
of whipped cream; stir carefully and serve in a gravy boat 
with the lettuce, removing the kitchen tape just before 
the lettuce goes to the table. 

Asparagus SouflBie 

Boil asparagus and rub through a sieve, add three well 
beaten eggs, a saltspoon of pepper, a half teaspoon of salt, 
and a half cup of milk. Beat the mixture thoroughly 
and fill buttered souffle dishes with it. Bake ten minutes. 
A little cheese may be grated over the top before baking. 
This is a good entree for summer use, served with tiny hot 



2/2 Vegetables 

biscuits. Cauliflower may be used in the same way and 
makes an equally palatable dish. 

Asparagus au Gratin 

Boil asparagus tips until tender ; drain, and to two bunches 
of tips add half a cup of dried fine bread crumbs, a gill of 
cream, two tablespoons of melted butter, half a saltspoon 
of pepper, a saltspoon of salt, two tablespoons of grated 
sharp English cheese, and last the stiffly beaten white 
of one egg. Mix all together lightly and fill buttered baking 
shells; then bake a delicate brown. Bake fifteen minutes. 

Fried Asparagus 

Wash and boil a bunch of green asparagus until it is 
tender; drain and cool. Dip each stalk in egg and fine 
bread crumbs, fry in hot fat, drain, and serve with broiled 
bluefish. 

Fried Red Bananas 

Peel and cut in half lengthways ripe red bananas; roll 
first in raw egg, then in fine crumbs, dust with pepper and 
salt, and fry a golden brown in deep fat like doughnuts. 
Drain and serve with a sauce made of three quarters of a 
cup of strained honey, the juice of three lemons, and a 
teaspoon of spiced syrup. 

Baked Bananas 

Pare enough bananas to allow one to a portion. Put 
them in a buttered pie plate with a generous lump on each, 
dust lightly with pepper and salt, and turn over them a half 
cup of honey and a quarter cup of boiling water. Cover 
and bake in the oven for fifteen minutes ; uncover and bake 
until they are a delicate brown. 

Another way of baking the bananas is to take off a strip of 
the peel lengthways and then lay the bananas in a buttered 



Vegetables 273 

baking pan; pour into the top of each a little melted butter 
that has been seasoned with lemon juice and a teaspoon of 
chutney syrup. Let them bake for twenty minutes. When 
done they may be served in the shells, or be very easily 
removed from the skins and a little melted butter turned 
over each portion. 

Lima Beans 

Shell two quarts of Lima beans and boil in fair water 
thirty minutes after they start to boil. Drain when cooked 
and shake over the fire to take away all the moisture, then 
add two tablespoons of butter, a half teaspoon of salt, a 
saltspoon of pepper, the juice of half a lemon, and a tea- 
spoon of sugar. Serve hot. 

Baked Lima Beans 

This dish of summer baked beans is very good and makes 
an added variety in the ways of serving them. Take two 
quarts of freshly shelled Lima beans and boil them in fair 
water until they are tender, then drain them and put them 
into a well-buttered baking dish with a four-inch square of 
pickled pork that is well scored in the center. Put in a 
half-cup of New Orleans molasses, a half-cup of melted 
butter, a saltspoon of pepper, a half teaspoon of salt, a 
tablespoon of finely chopped tarragon leaves, and a half-cup 
of the water that the beans were boiled in; cover and bake 
slowly for forty minutes, then uncover and allow them to 
brown. 

New England Baked Beans 

Take one quart of navy beans, wash and soak overnight; 
in the morning drain off the water, and set them to cook in 
hot water; allow them to boil until one is tender when 
pinched between the fingers. Butter a deep baking dish, 
or bean pot, and fill it with the beans, placing in the center 
18 



274 Vegetables 

a square of well scored pickled pork. Add a teaspoon of 
salt, a saltspoon of pepper, a cup of New Orleans molasses, 
and a cup of the water the beans were boiled in. Put the 
dish in the oven, cover, and let bake for one hour; then 
remove the cover and allow them to cook for an hour and a 
half longer. 

To Boil String Beans 

Wash, string, and cut in pieces one quart of string beans. 
Have ready a pot of boiling water with a little salt in it. 
Put in the beans, adding them slowly so the water does not 
stop boiling; boil for forty-five minutes, then drain and 
season with a tablespoon of butter, a saltspoon of pepper, 
and a half teaspoon of salt. Turn them into the serving 
dish and strew over the top a heaping tablespoon of bread 
crumbs that have been fried in butter and carefully drained. 

String Beans Cuban Style 

String, break, and boil until tender one quart of string 
beans. When done, drain them and add a lump of butter, 
and a little chopped parsley, onion, and sweet pepper. 
Have ready fried some diced bacon or pickled pork, grate 
a little nutmeg over it, and add the juice of a sour orange; 
add this to the beans, pour all into a buttered baking dish, 
dust with paprika and a tablespoon of very fine bread 
crumbs, and bake a delicate brown. Bake fifteen minutes. 

Baked String Beans 

Carefully wash and string a generous quart of beans and 
cut them in small pieces ; boil until tender, then drain per- 
fectly. Have ready two large cups of highly seasoned, 
strained, and smooth tomato sauce thickened to the con- 
sistency of strained honey; turn it into the beans, add a cUp 
of bread crumbs that have been fried in butter, pour all into 
a well-buttered baking dish, dust a little Parmesan cheese 
over the top, and bake fifteen minutes. 



Veg'etables 275 

Mexican Frijoles 

The frijoles are made of black beans that have been soaked 
overnight, then boiled with two tiny red peppers and 
two buds of garlic until the beans are tender enough to 
mash. They are then drained, mashed, seasoned, and 
shaped into small cakes, which are fried in olive oil. 

To Boil Beets 

To boil new beets after washing and leaving the stems 
three inches long, plunge them into boiling water and boil 
forty-five minutes. Then remove from the fire, plunge them 
into cold water, and skin them quickly with the fingers. 
Serve in a hot dish with a butter sauce. 

Old beets will require three and a half hours steady, 
hard boiling, otherwise they are prepared in the same way. 

Roasted Beets 

Wash young beets, trim, and lay them in a buttered pan 
in the oven; turn often as they cook but do not break the 
skin. When tender, skin, chop, and serve with a dressing 
made of melted butter, a saltspoon of pepper, a half teaspoon 
of salt, a teaspoon of sugar, and a little vinegar, or the juice 
of a lime. 

Escalloped Brussels Sprouts 

Trim and carefully wash a quart of Brussels sprouts, 
then boil them until tender in water to which a saltspoon 
of bicarbonate of soda has been added, boil briskly without 
covering them for thirty minutes. When done drain, then 
add one finely minced red pepper, small cup of fine crumbs, 
half -cup of grated cheese, one gill of melted butter, juice 
of an onion, a tablespoon of chutney syrup, a saltspoon of 
pepper, half teaspoon of salt, and one beaten egg. Fill 
large buttered ramekins with the mixture, and bake a deli- 



276 "Vegetables 

cate brown. If desired, pepper shells may be used to hold 
the sprouts instead of the ramekins. 

Plain boiled sprouts are boiled in the same way; and are 
seasoned with butter, pepper, salt, and a few drops of lemon 
juice. 

To Boil a Cabbage 

Cut the heart out with a sharp knife and in its place put 
a red pepper; drop the cabbage into fast boiling water, 
adding a teaspoon of salt and a saltspoon of bicarbonate of 
soda. A medium cabbage should boil two hours. 

A chopped cabbage will boil in thirty minutes, and a 
new or savoy cabbage will boil in three quarters of an 
hour. 

Baked Cabbage 

Remove the heart and chop a cabbage fine. Sprinkle 
with salt, cover with water, and boil twenty-five minutes. 
Drain, put in a flat pan, add a saltspoon of pepper, a half 
teaspoon of salt, a teaspoon of sugar, dot thickly with 
pieces of butter, pour over it a cup of cream, sprinkle with 
bread crumbs and Parmesan cheese, and bake until brown. 

Stuffed Cabbage 

Take one head of firm cabbage and, with a sharp knife, 
take out the heart and some of the center. Have ready 
some good force meat made of a little sausage meat, crumbs, 
a minced onion, a half teaspoon of pepper, a saltspoon of 
salt, teaspoon of sugar, half-cup minced ham, and a gill of 
melted butter. Stuff the center of the cabbage and the 
leaves that may be turned back a trifle, then cover the top 
and half of the cabbage with a dough rolled out the same 
as for a roly-poly pudding. Tie closely in a floured cloth 
and boil two hours. When done, drain carefully and place 



"Vegetables 277 

on the serving dish, with the crust underneath. Have ready 
a smooth tomato sauce to serve with the cabbage. 

Hot Cabbage Slaw 

Remove the heart and chop the cabbage. Put a piece of 
butter the size of a hen's egg into a saucepan, add a small 
cup of sugar, a saltspoon of pepper, a half teaspoon of salt, 
and a dessertspoon of dry mustard. Mix all, then add one 
beaten egg and last of all three quarters of a cup of vinegar 
with a quarter cup of water. Melt together, then let come 
to a boil, stirring all the time. When it thickens remove 
from the fire so it will not curdle, and add the cabbage a 
handful at a time, stirring until it is all moistened with 
the sauce. Set it where it is warm, but not directly over the 
fire, until needed. 

Red Cabbage 

Chop coarsely one red cabbage and put it into a large 
saucepan with six tart apples that have been pared, cored^ 
and sliced thinly. Cover with water and add a cup of 
vinegar. Cook until done — about two hours; then drain 
thoroughly. Season with a saltspoon of pepper, a level 
teaspoon of salt, a half-cup of sugar, a tablespoon of butter, 
and two tablespoons of tarragon vinegar. 

Red Cabbage in Claret 

Take a firm red cabbage, pull off the outside leaves and 
take out the heart, then chop fine. Put in a kettle with one 
bottle of table claret and boil gently until tender. Add a 
heaping tablespoon of butter, a saltspoon of pepper, a tea- 
spoon of salt, and sugar to taste — about a tablespoon; 
drain and serve hot. 

Colecannon 

Melt two tablespoons of butter in the saucepan, add a 
half tablespoon of Worcestershire sauce, a saltspoon of 



278 Vegetables 

pepper, and a half teaspoon of salt ; add one cup of mashed 
potatoes and one cup of finely chopped boiled cabbage. 
Mix all together, press into a greased mold, and bake in a 
hot oven for twenty minutes. Unmold on a hot dish and 
serve plain, or with a smooth tomato sauce. 

To Boil Carrots 

To boil new carrots scrape and plunge them into boiling 
water to which a teaspoon of salt is added and boil them for 
thirty-five minutes. Drain and serve with a butter or 
cream sauce. Old carrots must be boiled one hour. 

Stewed Carrots 

Scrape, wash, and slice into equal slices six large carrots 
and boil as above; drain them well and put in a saucepan 
with a pint of rich stock, a lump of sugar, and when this 
is reduced to a glaze add a tablespoon of fresh butter, a 
half saltspoon of pepper, and a saltspoon of salt. Heat 
until the carrots have absorbed the sauce, and serve. 

To Boil Cauliflower 

Wash and trim a good head of cauliflower, plunge it into 
boiling water, add a teaspoon of salt, and let it boil thirty 
minutes. Remove, drain, and serve with a cream sauce, or 
any sauce liked. In boiling cauliflower use half milk 
and half water. This will give it a finer flavor and keep 
it white. Cooked in plain water, it takes on a grayish 
color. 

Norwegian Cauliflower 

Take one good head of cauliflower and wash it thoroughly ; 
with a sharp knife slice down in medium slices and brush 
over each slice with egg, then dust lightly with flour and 
sprinkle with pepper and salt. Fry the slices a delicate 
brown in hot fat, drain, and arrange them neatly on a hot 



Vegetables 279 

platter. Have ready a rich drawn-butter sauce, not too 
thick, and turn it over the sUces, garnish the dish with 
lemon qttarters and parsley. 

Creamed Celery 

Wash and cut into one-inch lengths three stalks of celery ; 
plunge them into boiling water and boil for one hour; 
drain, and turn into a cream sauce. 

Celeriac with Tomato Dressing 

Celeriac, which is turnip-coated celery root, may be had 
three or four to the bunch on the vegetable stands. Pare 
and quarter them and boil until tender in slightly salted 
water. Add a finely chopped soup bunch and herbs to a 
large can of tomatoes; boil twenty minutes, strain, add a 
half teaspoon of salt, a saltspoon of pepper, a saltspoon of 
sugar, a tablespoon of Mandalay sauce, a few drops of 
kitchen bouquet, and thicken with butter and flour mixed 
to a paste. Pour over the celeriac and serve hot. 

To Boil Green Com on the Cob 

After husking and freeing from all silk plunge the ears 
into boiling water and boil for fifteen minutes. Drain and 
serve. Use no salt to toughen or yellow the com. 

Roast Com 

Boil as much sweet corn as is needed, and just before serv- 
ing time put it on the toaster over hot coals and let it roast 
evenly. Butter, pepper, and salt it, and send to table hot 
in a napkin. Serve it as a course by itself so it may be 
fully enjoyed. 

Green Com Croquettes 

Take one quart of the grated green corn, one cupful of 
sifted flour, one cupful of sweet milk, a lump of butter 



28o Veg'etables 

the size of an egg, a saltspoonof pepper, and a half teaspoon 
of salt. Put all in a saucepan and stir hard, adding a 
teaspoon of sugar. Remove from the fire and let it cool, 
then add three-quarters of a cupful of dry bread crumbs 
and mould into croquettes. Dip them in egg and roll them 
in crumbs, then fry in hot lard. Drain, garnish with 
parsley and lemon, and serve. 

Com au Gratin 

Split and scrape a dozen ears and add a half-cupful of 
dry, fine bread crumbs, two tablespoons of grated cheese, 
two beaten eggs, small cupful of cream, a half saltspoon of 
pepper, a saltspoon of salt, a tablespoon of sugar; fill 
buttered ramekins with the mixture, dusting the top of 
each with a little grated cheese and bake. Bake thirty 
minutes. 

Com Fritters 

One-half pint grated corn, half cupful of rich milk, half 
cupful of sifted flour, teaspoon of baking powder, a 
tablespoon of melted butter, a saltspoon of pepper, 
a half teaspoon of salt, a teaspoon of sugar, two beaten 
eggs. Mix the ingredients smoothly and fry in deep, hot 
fat. Drain, serve in a napkin with a little sliced lemon. 

Stuffed Cucumbers 

Pare, halve lengthways, and remove the seeds from 
enough cucumbers to allow a half one to each portion. 
Plunge them into boiling water and boil for ten minutes or 
longer until they are tender, but do not allow them to get 
too much done; drain, let slightly cool, then arrange them on 
a buttered baking pan and fill them with this stuffing: 
One cup of bread crumbs, half a cup of chopped chicken, 
half a cup of chopped pecan nuts, one chopped pepper, 
the juice of an onion, tablespoon of chutney syrup, gill of 



Vegetables 281 

melted butter, teaspoon of Worcestershire sauce, and one 
beaten egg. Dust lightly with a little grated cheese and 
bake a delicate brown. If the oven seems to dry them, 
baste them with a little melted butter to which the juice 
of half a lemon has been added. 

Deviled Cucumbers 

Pare, quarter, and take the seeds from six cucumbers, 
cut in inch lengths, drop into boiling water with a little 
salt in it, and boil six minutes. Drain and put a layer into a 
buttered baking dish, then a layer of fine crumbs, a sprink- 
ling of salt and pepper, a teaspoon of sugar, and a teaspoon 
of finely ground nut meats; continue until the quantity is 
used up, then pour over all a cupful of tomato sauce (not too 
thick), sprinkle with grated cheese, and bake a delicate 
brown. A little of the sauce may be kept to serve in a 
tureen if desired. The mixture may also be used in rame- 
kins. Bake thirty minutes. 

Cucimibers a la Poulette 

Pare and slice three cucumbers and lay them in salt and 
vinegar for half an hour. Drain them in a cloth and put 
them in two ounces of butter in a stewpan, saute them but 
do not brown them. Dredge over them some flour and add 
a half pint of white stock, a teaspoonful of minced parsley, 
a saltspoon ofsalt,ahalfsaltspoonof pepper, and a teaspoon 
of sugar. Let boil slowly until the gravy is a bit reduced, 
then stir in the yolks of two eggs ; let come to boiling point 
and serve. 

Fried Cucumbers 

Pare three cucumbers, cut them in lengthway slices, dry 
them, and dip them into yolk of egg, dust with fine cracker 
dust, fry in deep, hot fat; drain and serve in a napkin. 



282 "Vegetables 

Dandelion 

Take two quarts of the fresh young dandelion greens, 
wash and boil in salted water; when done, drain, chop fine, 
add the juice of half a lemon, three ounces of butter, and 
a saltspoon of pepper and a half teaspoon of salt. Garnish 
with hard-boiled eggs sliced. 

Endive 

Wash carefully six head of endive, remove the green part 
and plunge into boiling water for ten minutes, then drain 
and chop very fine. Then put in a stewpan with a pint 
of good stock, a saltspoon of pepper, a half teaspoon of salt, 
and a tablespoon of sugar, and boil until tender. Add a 
thickening of butter and flour and a tablespoon of lemon 
juice. Let the sauce boil up and serve. 

Panned Escarole 

Panned escarole will be found daintier than spinach. 
After the white centers have been removed for salad, wash 
thoroughly the green outside leaves, cutting them from the 
stalk and boil them in fair water, adding a pinch of bicar- 
bonate of soda. Boil until tender, drain, chop fine, drain 
again as dry as possible, add a tablespoon of butter, a 
saltspoon of pepper, a half teaspoon of salt, two tablespoons 
of vinegar, and serve, garnished with white egg rings. 

To Fry Eggplant 

Select one firm eggplant, cut it in thick slices, and let 
them soak in salted water for two hours. Drain, dip them 
in beaten eggs and fine bread crumbs, and fry in hot fat 
until a delicate brown. 

Bombay Eggplant 

Cut an eggplant in halves, lengthways. With a sharp 
knife or an orange spoon remove the pulp, leaving an 



Vegetables 283 

eighth of an inch all around to protect the skin. Chop the 
pulp fine, adding one green pepper, a little celery, and three 
tomatoes, also chopped fine. Add a cup of bread crumbs, 
a saltspoon of pepper, a half teaspoon of salt, a dessertspoon 
of grated cheese, and a tablespoon of chutney syrup. Fill 
the eggplant shells with the mixture, set them in a buttered 
baking pan, turn around them a cupful of vegetable stock 
and bake until tender, about thirty minutes. When done, 
serve with a smooth tomato sauce garnished with potato 
croquettes. 

Eggplant au Gratin 

Cut the eggplant in thick slices, let lie in cold salt water 
until ready for use, boil in clear water until tender, for 
perhaps fifteen minutes, or less, then place in well buttered 
baking pan and on top of each lay a thick slice of tomato, 
sprinkHng over them a mixture of fine bread crumbs, a 
sprinkling of salt and pepper, a saltspoon of sugar, a little 
grated cheese, and, putting a lump of butter on the top of 
each, bake in a medium oven. 

Turkish Eggplant 

Wash, pare, and chop two eggplants ; put a pound of rare 
mutton through the meat chopper, mix this with the egg- 
plant and add a chopped onion with a little chopped pars- 
ley ; put all in a buttered baking dish and add a gill of butter, 
half a cup of bread crumbs, and turn over it enough rich 
tomato sauce to fill the dish; dust the top with a little grated 
cheese, and bake an hour, or more if need be. 

Greens 

Take young and tender beet greens, wash and boil in 
salted water. When done, drain and chop fine and heat in 
three ounces of butter, a saltspoon of pepper, and a half 
teaspoon of salt and three tablespoons of vinegar, and 
serve hot. 



284 Vegetables 

Kohlrabi 

Pare, cut in quarters two bunches of kohlrabi, boil in 
salted water until tender, about thirty minutes; drain and 
cover with a rich drawn butter to which a tablespoon of 
fried bread crumbs has been added. 

Leeks 

Wash and cut in small pieces six leeks, boil until tender, 
about thirty minutes, throwing off the w^ater several times, 
drain, add one tablespoon of fried bread crumbs, a table- 
spoon of minced parsley, and cover with melted butter. 
Add a little lemon juice, pepper, and salt. Serve hot. 

Mushrooms 

The cultivated mushroom may, be easily distinguished 
from the poisonous fungi by its delicate pink or flesh-colored 
gills on the under side and by its agreeable nutty odor 
which the toadstools have not. When they are young they 
are button-shaped, the stalk and head being white, and as 
they grow they expand into a fiat umbrella shape and get 
pink underneath, slowly turning to dark brown, even 
blackish in appearance. All the poisonous varieties are 
brown, have a rank and putrid odor, and are different in 
flesh texture. 

The edible kind are found during August, September, 
and October in rich pasture land, but are seldom found in 
the woods where the poisonous variety abound. It is 
announced on scientific authority that there are over fifty 
kinds of edible mushrooms, among which there is one 
bright red one. Generally speaking the mushroom is 
difficult of digestion and has but little nourishment in it. 

Locality has great influence on the nature of the juices 
in the mushroom, and it has been discovered that some 
species, while harmless when growing young in pasture 



Veg'etables 285 

and meadow, become quite poisonous when grown in 
contact with stagnant water. 

The silver spoon test is a pretty safe one for the city 
housekeeper to rely on. If the spoon remains bright after 
plunging it into the heart of the mushroom it is all right, 
but if it turns black the fungus is poisonous. All those 
that are marketed in the city nowadays are from most 
reliable sources and inspected under the laws covering the 
sale of pure products regulated by licenses. The canned 
ones are usually dependable, but those in glass are even 
better. The Italian grocers carry the dried mushrooms 
at one dollar a pound, which are most excellent for soups 
and sauces, if properly washed and prepared. There is a 
mushroom powder that is also good in sauces, and a mush- 
room ketchup which is highly favored by our English 
cousins, but is not as well known on this side of the water. 

Fresh Mushrooms Fried in Butter 

Wash carefully one pound of umbrella mushroom flaps, 
removing the stalks, dry them on a cloth, and fry them in 
butter, turning two or three times. Chop the stalks, 
saute them in a little butter which has had added to it a 
teaspoon of lemon juice, a half teaspoon of onion juice, a 
saltspoon of salt, and a half saltspoon of red pepper. When 
the flaps are fried arrange them on slices of toast; add a 
teaspoon of chutney syrup to the saute, and turn it over 
the mushrooms. 

Mushroom Pates 

Take one large can of button mushrooms and one medium- 
sized can of mushroom flaps; drain and saute them in 
butter, adding a half saltspoon of pepper, a saltspoon of 
salt, one chopped Spanish pepper, two finely minced shalots, 
and a teaspoon of chutney syrup. Have ready a pint of 
medium cream sauce ; drain and add the mushroom mixture 



286 "Vegetables 

to it, using a little of the butter saute if it does not thin the 
sauce too much. Turn into hot patty shells and serve. 

Mushrooms a la Bordelaise 

Clean large freshly gathered mushroom flaps, peel them, 
and lightly score on the under side. Place them in an 
earthen dish with a half pint of melted butter, a saltspoon 
of pepper, a saltspoon of salt, and let them remain in this 
for two hours; then drain them and broil on a buttered 
broiler, serving them on hot plates, with a gravy made of 
the melted butter with the juice of an onion, a teaspoon of 
minced parsley, juice of a lemon, and a tablespoon of tomato 
ketchup. Wipe the spoon with which the gravy is stirred 
with a bud of garlic. 

Mushrooms under Glass 

Peel and remove the stems from a half pound of fresh 
mushrooms. Saute them slightly in butter, add a half 
saltspoon of pepper and a saltspoon of salt. Toast as many 
slices of bread as are needed, cut in rounds, and place in the 
dishes ; cover with the mushrooms and bake them under the 
glass bells for fifteen or twenty minutes; serve hot and 
covered. A little hot cream may be added if desired. 

Mushrooms in Baked Spanish Onions 

Hollow out the centers of as many onions as there are 
portions to be served. Drain one can of button mush- 
rooms, cut or chop in small pieces, add a tablespoon of 
bread crumbs, a tablespoon of finely chopped celery, a 
tablespoon of melted butter, a tablespoon of cream, a table- 
spoon of grated cheese, a teaspoon of chopped parsley. 
Fill the onions with the mixture, dust with pepper and 
salt, put a lump of butter on top of each, and set the onions 
in a buttered baking dish; cover, bake thirty minutes, 
remove the cover, and brown. 



Vegetables 287 

ONIONS 

To Boil Onions 

Pare and boil one quart of Bermuda omens until tender 
when pierced with a fork (about forty minutes) , drain, and 
serve with a sauce of a half cup of melted butter, a saltspoon 
of salt, a half saltspoon of pepper, a teaspoon of sugar, and 
six drops of lemon juice. Or the onions after boiling may 
be served in a cream sauce. 

To Fry Onions 

Slice two or three Spanish onions thin. Melt a heaping 
tablespoon of butter in the frying pan, put in the onions, 
dust with pepper and salt, and a dessertspoon of sugar. 
Cover tightly over a medium fire. Shake often until the 
onions are melted down and steamed soft, about ten minutes, 
then take off the cover and stir until they are a golden 
brown. 

Baked Spanish Onions 

Take four Spanish onions and with a sharp knife cut out 
some of their centers; do not pare them, but boil in salted 
water one hour; take them out, dry them, and stuff them 
with a tablespoon of grated cheese, half gill melted butter, 
a saltspoon of pepper, and a half teaspoon of salt. Bake 
in a moderate oven. When done they may be eaten from 
the skin or the outer skin removed and a rich brown gravy 
poured over them. 

Onion Pie 

Peel and boil a quart of onions until tender, drain them 
carefully, break them with a silver fork, and saute them in 
butter, letting color shghtly. Have ready a deep pie plate 
lined with good crust. When the onions are a bit cool add 



288 Vegetables 

to them a tablespoon of sugar, a saltspoon of pepper, and a 
half teaspoon of salt, a cup of cream, and two eggs beaten in 
a small cup of milk. Turn into the pie plate, add the top 
crust, and bake until the crust is fully done. Serve hot with 
a meat dinner and cut in squares instead of the wedge- 
shaped pieces of dessert pie. 

After peeling onions, rub a stalk of celery over the hands 
and it will remove the odor. If a stam remains, lemon juice 
or tomato skins will take it off. 

Onion Fritters 

Make a good batter as for clam or apple fritters. Grate 
one large onion, season it with a half saltspoon of cayenne 
pepper, a saltspoon of salt, and a quarter of a teaspoon 
of powdered sugar. Add to the batter and fry the fritters 
in hot deep fat a delicate brown and drain in the usual way. 
Serve in a napkin with parsley and lemon thinly sliced for 
garnish. 

Onion Pufifs 

Make a good puff paste or light, flaky pie crust, roll thin, 
and cut it into squares. Take as many white onions as there 
are to be guests and boil them in fair water until they com- 
mence to grow tender. Remove, drain, and let cool, then 
carefully cut out the centers, and fill the space with half 
of a country sausage, a teaspoon of butter, one half salt- 
spoon of pepper, the same amount of salt, fold each into a 
pastry square, adding as much tomato dressing as it will 
hold. Bake in a moderate oven. When done serve 
individually with the tomato sauce, to which a grating 
of Parmesan cheese may be added. Garnish with thinly 
sliced green pepper. 

Scalloped Onions 

Boil eight large onions and, when they are tender but 
not too much done, remove and drain them carefully. 



Vegetables 289 

Place them in a well buttered baking dish, put a half gill cf 
melted butter, a saltspoon of pepper, and a half teaspoon of 
salt on each, and add a dusting of fine crumbs, Parmesan 
cheese, and a little sugar. Beat two eggs into a pint of milk 
and turn it around the onions. Bake until the custard 
is set and the top is delicately browned. 

To Boil Parsnips 

Wash, trim, and pare as many parsnips as are needed to 
allow one of medium size to each person. Boil in fair 
water until tender. If the parsnips are new, boil thirty-five 
minutes, if old, an hour. When done, drain, slice, and serve 
with a cream sauce; or, when the parsnips are cold dip the 
slices in egg and cracker crumbs and fry a delicate brown. 

Smothered Parsnips 

Fry a slice of salt pork in a kettle, then put in a cup and a 
half each of diced parsnips and potatoes and season with 
a level teaspoon of salt and a saltspoon of pepper. Make a 
rich biscuit dough and lay over the vegetables with a hole in 
the center through which pour one pint of rich stock. Cover 
the pot, let cook for half an hour, and serve. This is a 
most unusual recipe and the dish will be found an agreeable 
change from everyday dishes. 

Parsnip Cones 

Boil three good sized parsnips and mash them very fine. 
Add to this a half cup of grated pineapple, a tablespoon of 
butter, a saltspoon of pepper, a half teaspoon of salt, a 
half saltspoon of grated nutmeg, a teaspoon of sugar, one 
egg, a teaspoon of good sherry, and a tablespoon of cream. 
Add enough cracker dust to form them into little cones, and 
fry in very hot lard. Serve in a napkin garnished with 
watercress. 



290 "Vegetables 

Green Parsley 

Parsley can be made a brilliant green by putting it, after 
it is chopped, into a cloth, then dipping it into cold water 
and wringing it tightly in the fingers. If the garden parsley 
looks as if it were going to seed, pick it after a good rain 
and place it on sheets of heavy paper in a cooling oven to 
dry ; when dry, powder it and put it in wide-mouthed bottles, 
corking it well. It will remain quite green and will do for 
all seasoning purposes as well as the fresh parsley. 

Hopping John 

Boil one cup of cow peas with a piece of bacon. When 
the peas are thoroughly done, but not mushy, drain the 
water off. At the same time boil separately a cup and a 
half of rice. When done mix together. Skim off grease 
from the top of the pot the peas were boiled in. Put over 
the mixture pepper and salt. Put in the oven to dry out 
and serve around fried sausages. 

To Stew or Boil Fresh Peas 

Shell the green peas, wash in cold water, drain, then put 
them into fast boiling water to which add a teaspoon of 
salt and a saltspoon of sugar. Let them boil briskly un- 
covered. If the peas are young ten to fifteen minutes' 
cooking will be sufficient; if they are large, marrowfat 
peas, cooking will take eighteen to twenty-four minutes, 
if they are old peas, a half an hour. When done drain, 
place in a hot vegetable dish, add a lump of butter the 
size of a walnut, a saltspoon of salt, a half saltspoon of 
pepper, and a teaspoon of sugar. 

Fresh young pea pods should be washed and carefully 
steamed, and when very tender rubbed through a colander 
and added to the vegetable soup stock, as they give the 
stock both flavor and body. 



"Vegetables 2gi 

Green Pea Cutlets 

Take one quart of fresh green peas and after boiling in 
the usual way pass them through the puree sieve. Add 
to the pulp three quarters of a cup of dry bread crumbs, a 
saltspoon of salt, a half saltspoon of pepper, a tablespoon of 
melted butter, a dessertspoon of sugar, and one egg. Add a 
teaspoon of finely chopped mint leaves and a half teaspoon 
of onion juice; shape the mixture into cutlets after mixing 
well, dip them in egg, dust with bread crumbs, and fry. 
Serve with the cutlets a good, smooth tomato sauce. 

PEPPERS 

As baking shells, the bull-nosed green or red peppers 
have no peer, for if they are not overcooked and are rightly 
prepared they never lose their shape or spill their contents 
while baking. Peppers thinly cut into strips lengthways 
and carefully fried in butter make a good edible garnish to 
serve around a platter of cutlets with a smooth tomato 
sauce poured in the center. 

Stuffed Green Peppers 

Cut the stem end from the peppers and remove the seed 
cones. Have ready a mixture made of one cup of sausage 
meat, a finely minced onion, a half cup of finely chopped 
mushrooms, a half cup of bread crumbs, a saltspoon of 
pepper, a half teaspoon of salt, a tablespoon of chutney 
syrup, and a teaspoon of chopped chives. Place the peppers 
in a well buttered baking dish, after stuffing them and 
tying on the covers, and pour around them enough good 
brown gravy to half fill the dish. Bake thirty minutes 
and serve. This mixture will fill four large pepper shells. 

Egjrptian Stuffed Peppers 

Cut around the stem end of a fresh green pepper and 
draw out the seed cone. Take a half pound of chopped 



292 Vegetables 

raw beef, add to it three quarters of a cup of bread crumbs, 
a tablespoon of butter, a saltspoon of pepper, a half teaspoon 
of salt, a little grated onion, and a beaten egg. Stuff the 
pepper shell with this mixture, roll in olive oil, and fry. 
This amount of stuffing will fill three good sized peppers. 

Apple Peppers 

Take two cups of smooth apple sauce, add to it one cup 
of bread crumbs that have been fried in butter and drained, 
two tablespoons of grated English cheese, a tablespoon of 
chopped walnut meats, and a teaspoon of chopped tarragon 
leaves. Bake until the pepper shell is tender, and serve 
as an edible garnish with roast pork. The pepper shells 
must be carefully washed and the seed cone removed before 
they are filled for baking and they may be halved or 
whole according to fancy. 

Macedoine Peppers 

Take a small bottle of macedoine vegetables, drain 
them, and add to them a small cup of bread crumbs, a 
half gill melted butter, a half saltspoon of pepper, a salt- 
spoon of salt, six sliced truffles, juice of an onion, one beaten 
egg, and enough sweet cream to bind the mixture. Fill 
the peppers after smearing them inside thinly with pate- 
de-foie-gras. Bake for twenty minutes. This will fill four 
peppers. 

Boiled Peppers 

Carefully open some large smooth peppers and remove 
the seeds, stuff them with loose leaves of cabbage coarsely 
chopped, a lump of butter, a pinch of salt ; tie together with 
kitchen tape and drop into boiling water. Boil one hour, 
drain thoroughly, remove the tape, pour over them a rich 
cream sauce and serve. 



"Vegetables 293 

Banana Peppers 

Cut three big green peppers in halves and remove the 
seed cones, arrange them on a buttered tin,.and fill them with 
the following mixture. Mash three ripe bananas, add a 
half cup of sugar, a teaspoon of salt, a gill of melted butter, a 
tablespoon of chutney syrup, a tablespoon of chopped 
pecan nuts, half a cup of bread crumbs that have been 
fried in butter, a half cup of dry crumbs, and a beaten egg. 
Fill the peppers with the mixture, dust the top of each 
with grated Parmesan cheese and a little paprika. Bake 
until the peppers are tender but do not let them lose their 
shape. If they cook a Httle dry, baste with a little melted 
butter. 

POTATOES 

Potatoes are a vegetable that may be served in a vast 
number of ways, being adapted to more uses than any of the 
other vegetables in use on the daily menu, and next to 
cereals they are considered the most valuable plant for the 
production of human food. In Saxony the potatoes are 
used boiled and beaten with sour milk to make a wonderful 
cheese, which if kept in closed vessels keeps for a number 
of years. 

If using old potatoes they should be carefully sprouted 
and spread out on a platform or large tray in a cool room 
or cellar so that they do not vegetate or soften. Some house- 
keepers still use potato yeast and others use the mashed 
potato in their bread. Old potatoes are best boiled with 
the skins on, then drained, dried, pared, and served with 
butter and chopped parsley in a deep dish, or mashed 
with butter, pepper, salt, and enough cream to make them 
rich and soft. 

New potatoes to boil should be carefully washed and 
have the skin rubbed off with a rough cloth, and boiled 
in salted water and served with plenty of butter. The 



294 Vegetables 

usual methods of frying potatoes are characterized as 
French fried, German fried, and country fashion, chips, 
sticks, or Boston strips, and are associated with certain 
dishes with which they are always served. Potato salad, 
always an appetizing dish, is served with several different 
kinds of dressings that are popular in certain localities. 

When boiling old potatoes add a little milk to the water 
and they will not turn dark. 

Never use boiled potatoes for salad that have chilled 
on ice. 

To Boil Potatoes 

If the potatoes are old choose as many as are needed of 
equal size, cut a little piece from the end of each, remove 
the eyes, and plunge the potatoes into boiling water to which 
a saltspoon of salt has been added. Boil steadily for thirty 
minutes, drain, pare, and serve with a gill of melted butter 
and a half teaspoon of chopped parsley, a half teaspoon of 
salt, and a saltspoon of pepper. New potatoes will boil in 
twenty minutes. 

To Bake Potatoes 

Wash the skins, carefully choosing potatoes of equal size, 
cut a tiny piece from each end, place them in a hot oven, and 
bake forty minutes, turning once. When done take from 
the oven in a soft cloth one at a time, and gently pinch the 
potato all around, which process frees the meat from the 
skin, so when it is broken open it bursts out light and 
fluffy. 

French Fried Potatoes 

The French fried potatoes are always cut lengthwise in 
strips, and allowed to stand one hour in cold water, then are 
slipped into hot lard that must be deep enough for them to 
float in. They are drained when brown, salted, and served 



Vegetables 295 

in a napkin, not, as is often the case, on the dish with the 
steak, where they are softened by its juices and spoiled. 

Escalloped Potatoes 

Pare and slice thin, potatoes enough to fill a medium-sized 
pudding dish, cover with cold water, and let stand three or 
four hours. Drain and dry on a linen cloth; grease the 
dish and add alternate layers of potatoes and cracker 
crumbs, dots of butter, a dusting of pepper and salt, and 
a teaspoon of sugar ; then pour in one pint of milk and bake. 
Cover the dish one hour, then open it and brown daintily. 

Stuffed Potatoes in Casserole 

Select six medium-sized potatoes and, after paring and 
washing them, remove the centers with an apple corer. 
Then stuff the potatoes with well-seasoned sausage meat, lay 
them in a casserole dish, dust them with pepper and salt, 
and add a small can of button mushrooms which have been 
sauted in butter. Put over all a pint of rich brown gravy. 
Let cook from an hour to an hour and a half, then serve 
with any good roast. The potato centers that are hollowed 
out may be boiled, then mashed or creamed for breakfast 
or luncheon use. 

Potato Rissoles 

Boil and mash six large potatoes, add a saltspoon of 
pepper, a half teaspoon of salt, a tablespoon of butter, and a 
teaspoon of minced parsley. Make into small balls, roll 
in beaten-egg, cracker dust, and a sprinkling of Parmesan 
cheese, and fry in hot lard a delicate brown ; drain and serve 
in a napkin. 

German Potatoes 

Put three ounces of butter into' a stewpan with two table- 
spoons of flour. Stir until the butter is a light brown, then 



2^6 Vegetables 

add two tablespoons of vinegar and a half pint of stock. 
Peel and slice in long slices six large potatoes, lay them 
in the gravy, and simmer until they are done. Serve very 
hot with roast meat. 

German Potato Cakes 

Pare and grate six large raw potatoes, add two eggs, one 
pint of milk, a saltspoon of pepper, a half teaspoon of 
salt, a tablespoon of sugar, two heaping tablespoons of 
flour, and one teaspoon baking powder ; drop the batter by 
the spoonful on a hot greased griddle as for pancakes. Serve 
hot with butter and salt, or with stewed fruit. 

Irish Potato Cakes 

To one cup of mashed potatoes, seasoned with butter 
and salt, add one half cup of milk and one and one half 
cups of flour; beat lightly, add one teaspoon of caraway 
seeds. Roll into a round cake one inch thick and bake in 
buttered frying pan, covered, on top of the range. Bake 
brown, cut into four quarters, and serve hot, with butter 
and salt. 

Danish Potatoes 

Boil a quart of Danish potatoes; when done cut in thick 
slices; grate one large onion and add to three ounces of 
butter, and when melted fry the potatoes in it, drain, and 
serve on a napkin, garnished with cress. 

Potato Fingers 

These are to serve with chops. Take freshly mashed 
potato, add a cup of bread crumbs, a saltspoon of salt, 
a half saltspoon of pepper, one small grated onion, a table- 
spoon of butter, and enough milk to soften and one egg 
to bind the mixture, which is then formed into fingers 



Vegetables 297 

three inches long and an inch through. Dip them in egg, 
then into fine crumbs, and fry in butter. Lay around the 
edge of a hot platter with the center heaped with French 
peas and garnish the chops with toast sippets and parsley. 

Riced Potatoes 

Boil, mash, and season six large potatoes, have a hot dish 
ready, and put them through the ricer. Serve with sausages 
baked in pastry squares. 

Potato Custards 

Boil and mash six large potatoes; add two well-beaten 
eggs, a tablespoon of butter, a saltspoon of pepper, a salt- 
spoon of salt, and one cup of hot milk; beat until very 
smooth and light ; add a teaspoon of sugar and a very small 
grating of nutmeg. Lightly fill greased custard cups and 
bake a delicate brown. Bake fifteen minutes. 

Glazed Sweet Potatoes 

The glazed sweet potatoes are especially nice when cooked 
with honey. Split the boiled sweets lengthwise in thick 
slices, arrange them on a well-buttered baking dish, dust 
them with pepper, salt, and a little sugar, and turnover them 
a small cup of strained honey and a tablespoon of lemon 
juice. The lemon juice keeps the honey from candying. 
Bake the potatoes until they are a delicate brown. 

Sweet Potatoes with Sherry Wine 

Boil six medium-sized sweet potatoes until soft, mash, 
season with a half teaspoon of salt, a saltspoon of pepper, 
and a gill of sherry wine. Moisten with rich milk or cream, 
beat vigorously, and pile lightly on a hot vegetable dish. 



298 "Vegetables 

RADISHES 

The radish is one of the family of the cultivated horse- 
radish, and is composed mostly of fiber and nitrogen, 
being eaten raw it is on the nitrogen its flavor depends. 
They are red and white in the ordinary varieties best known 
here, in globe shape, or long like the carrot. In France 
there is a black radish so called, and a violet one also, the 
black being the larger of the two. 

Creamed Radishes 

"Wash, pare, and slice in thick slices eight or ten white 
radishes, in season. Put them in a saucepan with boiling 
water and let them boil until they are tender when pierced 
with a fork. While the radishes are boiling add to them 
three cloves, a bay leaf, a half bud of garlic, and a half 
lemon sliced very thin, with the pits removed. Make a 
good cream sauce not too thick while the radishes are cook- 
ing and when they are done drain them very carefully and 
thoroughly; put them into the sauce and serve hot. Re- 
move the bits of lemon before sending to table and add one 
diced hard-boiled egg. 

This is an excellent way to use radishes that are too large 
and strong flavored to eat raw with salt. 

To Boil Salsify 

Scrape two bunches of salsify (oyster plant), wash and cut 
into one-inch pieces. Put them into cold water to which a 
teaspoon of lemon juice has been added to keep them from 
turning black. When ready to boil put them into boiling 
water, to which a teaspoon of salt, a teaspoon of lemon 
juice, and a teaspoon of butter have been added, and boil 
rapidly for thirty minutes; test with a fork to make sure 
they are done. Drain and serve with seasoned melted 
butter, or in a cream sauce. 



Vegetables 299 

Mock Fish Pates 

Wash and scrape two bunches of salsify roots, boil until 
tender, drain, and beat with a wooden spoon to a smooth 
paste. Moisten the mixture with a little cream, adding a 
heaping teaspoon of butter and an egg to each cup of salsify, 
the eggs being previously beaten. Fill scallop shells with 
the mixture, sprinkle a few bread crumbs over the top of 
eaph, and bake, serving hot. 

Italian Squash 

This is the name given by the marketmen to the long, 
round, green squash, not unlike a cucumber in appearance 
except that its surface is smooth and it has delicate yellow 
gourd-like stripes running its length. It is a fine summer 
squash, but few American housekeepers are acquainted 
with it. The skin is thin, the seeds very small and tender, 
and the flavor is superior to that of any other summer 
squash. 

These squashes should be pared and boiled about twenty 
minutes or until they are tender. Then remove them 
from the water and mash them in an enamel strainer; 
this frees them from the unnecessary water they contain. 
They may then be placed in a vegetable dish and a saltspoon 
of pepper, a half teaspoon of salt, a tablespoon of butter, 
and a teaspoon of sugar added by way of seasoning. 

Another way of cooking them is to pare and cut them 
into small pieces. Place them in a buttered baking dish; 
first a layer of the squash, then a sifting of bread crumbs 
with pepper, salt, and butter; then another layer of the 
squash, and so on until the dish is filled. Then add two 
gills of cream with two beaten eggs and a generous grating 
of EngUsh cheese over the top. Bake about half an hour 
in a moderate oven. 

The Italian squash may also be cut into thick slices with- 
out paring, dipped in egg, then in crumbs, and fried in the 



300 Vegetables 

same way as egg plant. Still another way is to pare and 
cut the squashes in thick slices and place them in a steamer. 
Steam until very tender, then serve them in a rich cream 
sauce which has been well seasoned but not made too 
thick. The Italians serve them steamed in this way, but 
instead of the cream sauce they use a rich brown gravy that 
has chopped sweet peppers through it and is dusted with 
Parmesan cheese. But no matter how these squashes are 
cooked they will be found a treat and a decided addition to 
the summer menu. 

All the other varieties of summer squash may be boiled 
and mashed in the same way. 

Hubbard Squash 

Take a medium-sized Hubbard squash, which is the best 
squash for winter cooking, cut it into quarters, remove the 
seeds, pare, and plunge into boiling water. Boil until 
tender, usually about thirty minutes. When done drain, 
mash very smooth, and add a heaping tablespoon of butter, 
a saltspoon of pepper, a level teaspoon of salt, and two 
tablespoons of sugar. Beat seasoning in well, and last of 
all add a half gill of sweet cream. 

Old-fashioned housekeepers cooked the squash without 
paring, and then, when done, scooped the flesh from the 
shells. But this is a difficult method, and it seems to be 
just as good done in the simpler way. 

The squash is very heavy and hard to cut so that a sharp 
knife and a hammer are necessary. 

To Wash and Boil Spinach 

Take two quarts of fresh spinach, pick it over carefully, 
remove all weeds or stalks, then wash it in seven waters. 
This is done by using two dish pans or pails, lifting it from 
one to the other, constantly changing the water, so that the 
sand settles to the bottom. When thoroughly clean put 
the spinach into a large saucepan with two heaping table- 



Vegetables 301 

spoons of salt, and a pint of boiling water, press it down 
frequently with a wooden spoon, and cook evenly for ten 
minutes, or until it is perfectly tender. Then drain in a 
colander, pressing it dry and chopping it fine. Put the 
spinach back into a clean stewpan, with a heaping table- 
spoon of butter, a saltspoon of pepper, and a half teaspoon 
of salt. When hot serve garnished with hard-boiled eggs 
sliced. 

It may also be served with a cream sauce, or with a rich 
tomato sauce. 

German Spinach Loaf 

Take one cup of boiled spinach, a half a cup of bread 
crumbs, six large sardines, skinned, boned, and broken, a 
gill of melted butter, a tablespoon of chutney syrup, and 
one teaspoon of lemon juice. Add one hard-boiled egg 
that has been chopped, a saltspoon of pepper, a half teaspoon 
of salt, and one beaten raw egg. Mix the ingredients 
thoroughly together and place them in a buttered loaf pan ; 
bake in the oven for about an hour, or less if the oven is very 
hot. Unmold the loaf on a hot platter and turn over it a 
good cream sauce that is not too thick and garnish with 
sprays of parsley. 

Spinach Sotiffle 

Take four pounds of spinach, trim and wash it thoroughly, 
then boil in plenty of water, adding a pinch of soda and a 
pinch of salt. When done, remove the spinach from the 
water into a strainer with a skimmer; this will leave any 
extra sand at the bottom of the kettle. When drained 
chop the spinach very fine and add to it four well-beaten 
eggs, a saltspoon of pepper, a half teaspoon of salt, a dessert- 
spoon of melted butter, and a quarter cup of cream. Mix 
thoroughly, put in well-buttered souffle dishes, or large 
ramekins, and bake ten minutes. 



302 "Vegetables 

Matrons in Spinach 

Wash, boil, and prepare spinach in the usual way, then 
drain, chop fine, and pan it in butter, when it will be ready- 
to turn on to a hot platter and be covered with the following 
sauce: One pint of cooking marrons, drain and cook until 
very tender in a pint of red stock, then season well, add a 
cup of liquor in which they were put up, boil up, and thicken 
slightly with butter and browned flour rubbed to a cream, 
turn over the spinach on the hot plate^^ and garnish with 
fried tomato slices. 

Succotash 

Prepare a dozen ears of corn by splitting the grains and 
scraping them down with the back of a knife, then add a 
tablespoon of butter, a saltspoon of pepper, a half teaspoon 
of salt, two tablespoons of sugar, a cup of cream, and a half 
cup of milk; stew in double boiler fifteen minutes. Have 
ready a quart of freshly boiled Lima beans, drain them and 
add to the corn. Fry two slices of pickled pork that has 
been diced a crisp brown and add them with the fat to the 
succotash. This is a famous New England recipe. The 
succotash may, of course, be made from canned materials. 

Fried Totnatoes 

Select four firm ripe tomatoes and wash and cut them in 
thick slices without paring them. Dust lightly with 
pepper and salt and fry them in hot butter. When done, 
drain; then lay each slice on a buttered toast round, pour 
over each a small cup of hot cream and serve at once. 
The slices may be dipped in crumbs, fried, and served 
without a sauce. 

Green Fried Totnatoes 

Wash and slice green tomatoes in thick slices and let 
stand in salt water all day, dry off, and dip in beaten egg 



Vegetables 303 

and roll in cracker dust, sprinkle with salt and pepper and 
fry in hot fat, drain and serve with any sort of broiled meat 
or boiled fish. 

Stuffed Tomatoes 

Select as many tomatoes as are needed to serve one to a 
portion, and hollow out the stem end. Make a savory 
stuffing of a half cupof bread crumbs, a teaspoon of chopped 
celery and onion, and a half cup of flaked cold boiled cod- 
fish ; season all highly, add a half gill of melted butter and a 
tablespoon of cream, and stuff the tomatoes with it. Dip 
each,afteritis stuffed, in a little melted butter; then sprinkle 
with fine crumbs and bake on a buttered pan. Do not 
bake long enough to have them collapse and spoil the 
appearance of the dish. This stuffing will fill four large 
tomatoes. 

Fresh Stewed Tomatoes 

Cut in quarters six large tomatoes, cover them with one 
half pint of boiling water, add a teaspoon of salt, and stew 
gently until the tomatoes are done, about fifteen minutes. 
Then add a saltspoon of pepper, a tablespoon of sugar, a 
half saltspoon of bi-carbonate of soda, and thicken slightly 
with two teaspoons of browned flour that has been worked 
smooth with two teaspoons of butter. 

TURNIPS 

Turnips do not appeal strongly to all people, yet they 
are a useful winter vegetable and can be cooked in several 
attractive ways. The small white ones are often boiled 
and served with a cream sauce, the yellow ones are usually 
mashed or diced in butter. 

Fried Turnips 

Pare, and boil for thirty minutes a large yellow turnip 
When tender slice in medium slices; dip in egg, then in 



304 Veg'etables 

crumbs seasoned with a saltspoon of pepper, a half teaspoon 
of salt, a teaspoon of sugar, and a little chopped parsley. 
Fry in deep hot fat until a good brown ; drain and serve. 

Turnip Croquettes 

Boil one yellow turnip with two potatoes. When thor- 
oughly done mash very smooth, add a gill of cream, one 
egg, a saltspoon of pepper, a half teaspoon of salt, a big 
lump of butter, and a half cup of finely chopped pecans. 
Beat thoroughly and sift in enough flour to form into cro- 
quettes. Fry in very hot lard, drain, and serve in a napkin 
with parsley and thinly sliced lemon. A slight dusting of 
powdered sugar may go in with the nuts and adds to the 
flavor. 

Yellow Turnip 

Pare, and boil the turnip until done; mash with plenty of 
butter, pepper, salt, sugar, and a gill of cream. Serve hot. 

Turnip Pie 

Boil, and mash one yellow turnip, add to it a saltspoon of 
pepper, half a teaspoon of salt, a gill of melted butter, a 
tablespoon of sugar, and a cup of apple sauce. Line a deep 
pie plate with crust, then spread a thick layer of the turnip 
in, and over the top spread a thick layer of well-seasoned 
sausage meat, spread thinly with apple sauce, and put on 
the top crust. Bake in a medium oven a half hour, and 
serve hot. 

Stuffed Turnips 

Pare, and boil for twenty minutes enough large white 
turnips to allow one to a portion, and when they are partly 
done remove from the fire and drain. Cut a slice off the 
bottom so that they stand firmly, then with a teaspoon 
hollow out the centers. Have a filling ready, made of a 



Veg'etables 305 

half cup of cold chopped meat, a minced onion, a teaspoon of 
chopped parsley, a half cup of bread crumbs, a saltspoon of 
pepper, a saltspoon of salt, a dessertspoon of sugar, a half 
gill of melted butter and a tablespoon of cream. Fill the 
turnips and tie the tops on with a piece of kitchen tape; 
place them in a baking pan and pour over them a quart of 
good stock. Dust the top of each with a little grated cheese. 
Cook until they are a delicate brown, then remove them to 
a hot dish with a skimmer. Thicken the gravy with a little 
butter and flour, adding a little cream if it has cooked 
away. Pull off the little tapes and pour the gravy over the 
turnips. The insides cut from the turnips may be used up 
in the vegetable soup. 

Truffles 

Truffles, to be in perfection, must be quite fresh, good 
ones being easily distinguished by their agreeable aroma. 
They are light in proportion to their size, and elastic when 
pressed by the finger. French truffles are exported in great 
quantities, bottled, canned, in powder form, and are con- 
served in various other ways. There are also a large 
number shipped from Italy. 

There are three varieties of the species: the black, the 
red and the white, the latter being of little value. The 
best truffles come from Perigord, the next best from 
Provence, Dauphine ; the white truffles come from Piedmont. 
The black truffle has the highest repute and its consump- 
tion is enormous. The red truffle is very rare, like the 
edible red mushroom, and in France its use is restricted 
by law. 

Truffles au Natural 

Select as many truffles as are required. They should be 
of equal size. If fresh ones are procured, cleanse them 
carefully by washing them in several waters and scrubbing 
them with a stiff brush to remove every particle of sand and 



306 "Vegetables 

grit; if truffles from can or bottle are used, rinse them 
thoroughly in cold water and dry them on a soft cloth. 
When washed, dust them lightly with a Httle pepper and 
salt, squeeze a few drops of onion juice over them, and wrap 
each one in buttered paper. Bake in a hot oven for about 
an hour; when done, remove and take off the paper, drain, 
and serve heaped in a napkin. These will be found very 
nice, served in this way, with broiled chicken. 

Ham and Truffles 

Drain, and rinse carefully a one-pint bottle of truffles. 
Cover the bottom of a frying pan with sliced bacon, arrange 
the truffles evenly on top, covering them with a slice of 
ham which has been steeped in water to freshen, and over 
all put one cup of finely minced veal. In another well- 
buttered frying pan put one thinly sliced onion, a tablespoon 
of chopped parsley, a half bud of garlic, a saltspoon of salt, 
a saltspoon of pepper, and two cold boiled carrots, minced. 
When these begin to color, moisten with three quarters of a 
pint of tomato juice that has had added to it two tablespoons 
of chutney syrup, two tablespoons of tomato ketchup, two 
tablespoons of olive oil, and a half saltspoon of mignonette 
pepper. When this mixture has boiled up once, pour it 
over the meat and truffles, cover, and let all cook gently 
together for one hour and a half. When ready to serve, 
place on a hot dish the slice of ham, arrange the truffles 
on top, strain the gravy, which may be thickened slightly if 
it seems too thin, then turn it over the truffles, and garnish 
with toast sippets. 

Truffles a I'ltalienne 

Clean carefully ten good-sized truffles, slice them, and 
put them into a saute pan with one ounce of butter, one 
minced shalot, a saltspoon of salt, a half saltspoon of pepper, 
one tablespoon of minced parsley, and a few drops of onion 
juice; stir them over the fire for about ten minutes so that 



Vegetables 307 

they may all be equally done. When done, drain off the 
butter and add one ounce of fresh butter, two tablespoons 
of good stock, the juice of half a lemon, and a dash of cayenne 
pepper. Stir over the fire once more, until the whole reaches 
boiling point. Serve hot. 

Baked Truffles 

Take ten truffles, wash them thoroughly, cut them in 
slices, and place the slices in a buttered baking dish, mixing 
with them a seasoning of a quarter of a pint of salad oil, 
a saltspoon of pepper, a half teaspoon of salt, one table- 
spoon of minced parsley, one bud of finely minced garlic, 
and a pinch of mace. Bake them for nearly an hour, and 
just before serving sprinkle over them a tablespoon of 
lemon juice. 

Vegetable Marrow 

For the vegetable marrow, select a good-sized one, cut 
off one end, and scoop out the center freely, then make a 
savory filling of five tablespoons of bread crumbs and one 
tablespoon of melted butter, a fried onion, a dessertspoon of 
chopped parsley, a saltspoon of sage, and thyme. Season 
well, add a few drops of lemon juice, and bind all with a 
beaten egg. Fill the marrow, place it in a cloth, and steam 
until tender, then cover with brown sauce containing a 
tablespoon of fried bread crumbs. 

Baked Marrow, Sour Cream Sauce 

Wash and cut two vegetable marrows in half and scrape 
out the seeds ; make a savory stuffing of one cup of crumbs, 
one chopped onion, a tablespoon of chopped celery, twelve 
seeded raisins, a tablespoon of chopped pecan meats, a tea- 
spoon of cold boiled chopped ham, a tablespoon of cream 
and two of sherry ; stuff, and bake in a moderate oven until 
the marrow is tender enough to scoop out of the shell. 



3o8 Vegetables 

Set the marrows on a bed of parsley and serve. The sauce 
is made of a cupful of sour cream beaten with the juice of 
a lemon and a teaspoon of sugar, and is served in a 
tureen. 

Vegetarian Roast 

Mix together one half cup of lentil pulp, one whole cup of 
pea pulp, a half cup of finely chopped English walnuts, one 
cup of bread crumbs, a gill of melted butter, a gill of cream, 
a saltspoon of pepper, a half teaspoon of salt, a little sage, a 
teaspoon of sugar, and a half cup of hot cream. Fold in the 
stifHy beaten whites of two eggs, and turn the mixture into 
a buttered baking dish. Bake in a medium oven until firm 
enough to slice. Serve with the roast a cranberry jelly 
and, in a tureen, a brown apple sauce. For the sauce take 
a half pint of heavy tomato stock, adding to it one cup of 
smooth apple sauce; thicken slightly with butter and 
browned flour and season to taste. 

Dasheens 

This vegetable is a staple article of food for millions 
of people in tropical and subtropical countries. In general 
it is used in the different ways in which the white potato 
and the sweet potato are used. The flesh of the large 
spherical corms and of the larger tubers (which are usually 
much smaller than the corms) is frequently somewhat 
gray or violet when cooked, but this does not affect the 
flavor. Baked dasheens, stuffed dasheens, scalloped 
dasheens, boiled dasheens, fried dasheens, mashed dasheens, 
creamed dasheens, dasheen salad, dasheens as filling for 
fowls and other meats, dasheen soup, candied dasheens, 
dasheen pie, dasheen pudding, dasheen shoots, dasheen 
greens are all good. Prepare and cook them as you would 
potatoes. The dasheen is a member of the elephant-eared 
caladium plant family. 



"Vegetables 309 

Crones 

An odd-looking little Japanese vegetable, the crone, 
made its debut at a recent culinary show in New York 
City. It is about three inches long, covered with a pale 
yellow skin, like a potato, and is shaped and marked like a 
circular conch shell, rising to a point at the end. The 
flavor is very much like that of the Jerusalem artichoke 
and it is sold by the pound, but as the weight is light a 
pound goes a good way. 

It is much easier to boil crones before paring, as then they 
retain their shape more perfectly. Plain boiled, they are 
very nice served with a dressing of melted butter that has 
been allowed to boil up once with a teaspoon of carefully 
washed fresh fennel seed added to it. They are also good 
creamed, to serve with chops or steak; or, after boiling, 
they may be broiled, dipped in melted butter, and rolled 
in a little minced parsley to be used as an edible garnish. 

VEGETABLES IN JELLY 

The foundation of these jellies is not just plain gelatine 
but is a chicken jelly, a calf's foot jelly, a mutton broth 
jelly, a beef jelly, or a cereal jelly, each making, when 
properly combined, a tasty background for the vegetable 
flavors. In seasoning foods that are to be jellied one 
must always remember that the chilling seems to dull the 
flavor, and it is wise to add a little more than would be used 
if the dish were to be served warm; be careful only about the 
addition of too much salt. 

From the following five foundation jellies most of the 
jellied vegetables are made. Before jellying, the vegetables 
are always cooked and cooled. 

Chicken Jelly 

Select one short, thick, four-pound chicken, dress and 
singe it. Have the butcher split six pairs of chicken feet 



3IO Vegetables 

and put them to boil with the chicken. When the chicken 
has boiled tender, take it from the broth, and after it slightly 
cools take the meat from the bones to use for a salad or 
creamed chicken. Throw the skin and bones back into the 
broth, add one thinly sliced onion, a stalk of celery, a diced 
carrot, a tablespoon of rice, and a little chopped parsley. 
Boil the broth down until the liquid is reduced to about a 
quart, then add a saltspoon of pepper and a half teaspoon of 
salt and remove from the fire; strain carefully into a crock 
and when cold remove the grease from the top and set it 
away to jell. 

Calf's Foot JeUy 

Select four calves' feet and have them properly cleaned 
and split. Cover them with water, adding a thinly sliced 
onion, a bunch of sweet herbs, a stalk of celery, a few 
tarragon leaves, a bay leaf, and four cloves, a saltspoon of 
pepper and a half-teaspoon of salt. Let cook evenly until 
the meat falls from the bones. Strain the broth carefully 
into a crock and when cool skim and set away to jell. 

Mutton Broth Jelly 

Take two pounds of neck of mutton, one calf's foot, a 
small bunch of sweet herbs, a small onion, a bay leaf, and 
two cloves; cover with cold water and boil. Boil until the 
meat falls from the bones and the liquid is reduced to about 
one quart. Strain carefully, and when cold remove the 
fat and set away to jell. 

Tapioca Jelly 

Put two heaping tablespoons of tapioca into a pint of 
water and cook until the tapioca is transparent, then add a 
saltspoon of salt and a teaspoon of butter, turn into a mold 
and set away until needed. 



Vegetables 311 

Beef Jelly 

Make a half pint of good beef broth, using a pound of 
tenderloin of beef diced, a pint of water, a saltspoon of 
pepper, and a half teaspoon of salt. When done, strain, and 
add to it a scant tablespoon of gelatine which has been 
melted in a little cold water, stir it in while the broth is still 
hot, then strain again, and set away to jell. 

These jellies may all be made a day ahead of the time 
they are to be used, when half the quantity of any one of 
them will be sufficient for one jellied vegetable foundation 
except the beef broth, /which is in quantity for only one dish. 

Vegetable Macedoine 

Take half the quantity made of chicken jelly and melt 
it in a saucepan; add to it a small bottle of macedoine of 
vegetables carefully drained; season, and when all is heated 
through, turn into small molds and set aside to jell. 

Jellied Cucumber and Onion 

SHce thinly two cucumbers and chop fine one Spanish 
onion ; saute them in butter until they are a delicate brown, 
season with a saltspoon of pepper, a saltspoon of salt, 
and a saltspoon of sugar, and drain carefully. Have ready 
melted a pint of the calf's foot jelly and add these to it. 
Put into individual wet molds and set away to jell. 

Jellied Carrots and Rice 

Pare, boil, and dice two carrots, take a half cup of freshly 
boiled rice, and have ready melted a pint of the mutton 
broth; stir the carrots and rice into it, add a teaspoon of 
chopped parsley, a saltspoon of pepper and salt, and set 
away to jell in wet molds. 

Jellied Beets 

Boil, pare, and dice enough beets to allow one for each 
portion to be served. When cold allow them to marinate 



312 Vegetables 

in French dressing for one hour. Melt half the quantity 
of tapioca jelly, drain the beets and add them to it, mix, 
and turn into wetted molds and jell. 

Jellied Peas and Cauliflower 

Melt the beef jelly, add to it a half cup of freshly cooked 
green peas that have been drained and a few sprays of 
freshly boiled cauliflower, season with a saltspoon of pepper, 
two saltspoons of salt, a teaspoon of sugar, and turn into 
wetted molds and jell. 

Asparagus in Aspic 

Boil two bunches of green asparagus until tender, cutting 
them back far enough so that all the stalk will be edible. 
Have ready a well seasoned chicken aspic, colored with 
Breton coloring a pale green. Turn a little of the jelly into 
the bottom of a damp, cold mould, and when slightly set 
lay in a layer of the asparagus and one hard-boiled egg 
sliced. Then turn in a little more jelly, another layer of 
asparagus and egg; after this fill the mould with jelly. 
When chilled and set slice with a sharp knife ; serve on let- 
tuce leaves garnished with a slice of fresh tomato and may- 
onnaise also colored a delicate green. Besides being a most 
decorative dish this is a very appetizing one. 

THE MARKETS OF CHINATOWN 

In summer the green goods displayed in the Chinese 
shops are raised on Long Island farms by Chinamen, but 
in the winter season most of the things are raised in the 
south. 

The bins and shelves are filled with dried edibles such as 
mushrooms, dried flying fish or other fish, water chestnuts, 
and a variety of dried roots and vegetables. Hanging 
from the lines above the customer's head are quantities of 
dried ducks that have been smoked and dried whole; these 



Vegetables 313 

ducks are considered a great delicacy. The dried flying fish 
and strips of bacon, already cooked, are neatly rolled around 
bamboo splints and hung in bundles. 

Among the vegetables in the windows are Chinese pota- 
toes. The Chinese cabbages head up much more loosely 
than our own cabbages, and have, when cooked, a decided 
herb flavor. 

Sweet mustard is a great favorite on the Chinese table. 
It resembles the outside leaves of cauliflower, though the 
stems are more succulent and it does not head with a solid 
center. The sweet mustard is prepared by pulling the 
leaves apart and washing them carefully, then boiling them 
in water which must be changed three times, after which 
a small loin of pork, or a fresh ham is put in, and cooked 
with them. 

Tulip bulbs are pared, and eaten with a little garlic as a 
relish, or they are cooked and served with a specially made 
meat sauce and rice. It is safe to say that after a wee 
taste most people would prefer to have their tulip bulbs 
grow and blossom rather than add them to the list of avail- 
able salad materials. 

"Elephants' Trunks" look as if they might easily pose 
as the ancestors of the American beets, and they are cooked 
and used in much the same way as beets are used on Ameri- 
can tables. There is a peculiar kind of lettuce which has 
an unpronounceable name, as well as a most unhappy taste, 
that is very popular among the Chinese for boiling with 
dried fish. 

Water sprouts look about as chicory salad would look 
if cut into small pieces. Theyare used in almost all Chinese 
sauces and are very crisp, with a slightly bitter flavor. 
Another staple article is the water chestnut. These nuts 
are pared and eaten raw, or they may be cooked with the 
favorite chicken and mushroom dish, or again cut fine and 
added to a rich brown gravy which has grated pineapple 
in it and is often served with the dish known as "pineapple 
pike," an especially good fish concoction. 



314 "Vegetables 

A great deal of horse-radish is used in Chinese cooking, 
therefore the market is plentifully supplied with it, and it 
vies with green peppers, onions, and turnips for first place. 
Ginger root is prepared in several ways and takes the place 
of the pepper when it is out of season. The sweets offered 
in Chinese markets are sugar cane, rice cakes, and candies ; 
preserved, sugared, and dried fruits; sugared ginger, and 
sweet flag roots. 



CEREALS 

There are so many cereals on the market, recommended 
by physicians and food specialists, that to treat the subject 
at length is hardly necessary here. So only the simplest 
recipes for the cooking of the best-known cereals are given. 

Com-meal Mush 

Put two quarts of water and two teaspoons of salt into a 
mush kettle, and when it is boiling sift in slowly a pint and 
a half of yellow corn meal. Boil rapidly for ten minutes, 
then set back on the stove, and allow it to cook very gently 
for two hours. The mush may then be seasoned with a 
small lump of butter and a tablespoon of sugar, then turned 
into a wet mold and allowed to harden. When cold it 
may be cut down and fried, and eaten as a breakfast dish 
with maple syrup. Or it may be eaten hot with cream. 

To BoU Oatmeal 

Put one quart of water into a double boiler with a tea- 
spoon of salt and bring to boiling point. Sift in very 
slowly six tablespoons of oatmeal (Scotch or Irish). Bring 
it to boiling point and allow it to boil gently, but steadily, 
for four hours. Serve seasoned to taste with cream or 
butter. 

Hominy 

There are two kinds of hominy : one is the entire grain 
and the other is the ground grain after the hull has been 
removed; both kinds have to be soaked in cold water twelve 

315 



3i6 Cereals 

hours before being cooked, both, also, double in quantity 
with the soaking. 

They are put to cook in the morning in fresh boiling 
water and allowed to boil four or five hours; a teaspoon of 
salt is added to each pint of hominy. As it absorbs the 
water while cooking it must be watched and more water 
added as needed. The last time water is added allow it to 
cook until all the water is absorbed, so it is dry when the 
seasoning is added just before service. 

On the containers of all the breakfast foods will be 
found adequate recipes and directions for their use. 

Farina Dumplings 

Bring one quart of milk to a boil, stirring in slowly ten 
ounces of farina, and boil till well done, continually stirring. 
After cooling, stir in a tablespoon of fresh melted butter, 
three well-beaten eggs, a half pound of flour with one and a 
half teaspoons of baking powder and a little salt. Mix 
well and drop with a tablespoon into boiling water, well 
salted. Boil fifteen minutes till they rise, take out with 
a skimmer, and serve hot with fruit sauce. 

RICE DISHES 

It is said that rice forms the principal food of one half the 
population of the earth, and it is unquestionably used more 
generally than any other cereal. The Creoles use it from 
one to three times a day, but rarely use sugar with it, pre- 
ferring to have it served hot with any sort of good gravy. 

Rice should always be served dry, steaming hot, with 
every grain separate if it is used plain boiled as a vegetable. 
In fact, It should be cooked in that way before it is added 
to any combination either as a vegetable or as a dessert. 

There are said to be one thousand four hundred different 
varieties of rice; in the United States six grades are home 
grown. From Honduras come three varieties: a long 



Cereals 317 

whole grain, a long partly broken grain, and a finely broken 
grain. From Japan we get a round whole grain, a round 
partly broken grain, and "screenings." 

When the housewife once learns to cook rice as the Chinese 
cook it, she will have mastered one of the real arts of good 
cookery, and this practical recipe may be of use to her. 

To Cook Rice 

Wash one cup of rice through six waters until all cloudi- 
ness is removed and drain it thoroughly. Have ready 
boiling three cups of water, to which add a saltspoon of 
salt and a saltspoon of butter; add the rice slowly so that 
the water will not stop boiling. When it is all in, tilt the 
cover over the saucepan and do not stir the rice but depend 
upon the boiling water to keep the grains jumping. Allow 
it to boil about fifteen minutes to absorb the water fully, 
then remove the cover and, at the same heat, let the rice 
dry out for five minutes, watching it carefully. If cooking 
over gas, lower the flame after five minutes and continue 
the drying out process for fifteen minutes or so, when it 
will be ready to serve in any way one may desire. 

To BoU Rice 

To use rice as a vegetable it should be so cooked that 
each grain is separate. To have it this way proceed as 
follows: Wash three quarters of a pound of rice in cold 
water, let it soak for an hour, then have ready a saucepan of 
boiling water and drop the rice in, keep it boiling quickly 
until done; add a dash of salt, and throw the rice into a 
sieve to strain it. Pile on the center of a dish of fried 
chicken or use around the edge as a garnish. 

Rice washed in hot water is more quickly cleansed and 
freed from starch than when washed in cold water. 

Rice Pilau 

Put a half pound of rice into cold water, add a dash of 



3i8 Cereals 

salt, and boil slowly, drain off the water, and freshen it 
with cold water, and cover closely with a cloth to steam, 
placing it in a warm place to swell. Melt a half pound 
of butter, pour over the rice, garnish with parsley, and 
serve. 

Rice Milanese 

To make the rice milanese, boil six ounces of rice in a 
double boiler until tender, chop and fry one onion brown; 
add two pealed tomatoes and cook until tender, then add 
to the rice with the yolks of two eggs, one and a half ounces 
of grated cheese and seasoning. Mix well and serve with 
English brown sauce. 

Fried Rice 

Boil the rice and cool it in a square mould; cut in half -inch 
slices, roll in flour, and fry in very hot fat. Drain on brown 
paper, season, and serve with chops. 

Hot Honey and Rice 

Wash a cup of rice in a number of waters until the cloudi- 
ness disappears, drain, and plunge into a quart of boiling 
water, adding a teaspoon of salt and lard the size of a 
filbert. Boil twenty minutes, drain, and mix with two 
heaping tablespoons of butter and a small cup of strained 
honey. Serve with a spoonful of whipped cream on top 
of each portion. 

Rice Fritters 

Mash a cup of cold boiled rice thoroughly with a cup of 
milk and one well-beaten egg ; add to this batter a half cup 
of sifted flour and a half teaspoon of yeast powder, a pinch 
of salt, a heaping tablespoon of sugar. Mix thoroughly 
and drop by spoonfuls into hot fat. When done, drain, and 
serve with any kind of roast meat. 



Cereals 319 

MACARONI AND SPAGHETTI DISHES 

The best macaroni comes from the continent of Europe — 
best for the reason that it cooks more tender than any other, 
though there are two or three American brands that seem 
to be constantly improving. 

The macaroni which is of a yellowish color is usually the 
best ; the white kind is inferior and lacks body. It increases 
in boiling at about a fourfold rate, so one may judge in this 
way the quantity to use for the number of portions to be 
served. To boil macaroni properly (and the same rules 
apply to spaghetti), have the water boiling and jiunping, 
throw into it a tablespoon of salt, then break the macaroni 
into desired lengths and drop it into the water a little at a 
time, so as not to stop the water boiling. When it has 
boiled from fifteen to twenty minutes, pinch a piece between 
the thumb and finger to test whether or not it is perfectly 
done. Then throw it into a sieve and pour first lukewarm 
water through it, then cold water, which will remove the 
mucilaginous liquid that makes it cling together. Pour it 
back into the basin and it is ready to fix in any of the 
various dishes which have been selected for the day. 

Baked Macaroni 

Make a cream sauce, not too thick; add to it a dash of 
paprika, a half cup of grated English cheese, and the boiled 
macaroni. Put all into a well-buttered baking dish, sprin- 
kling the top with a tablespoon of very dry bread crumbs 
mixed with a little of the cheese, and bake a delicate brown. 

Macaroni Cutlets 

Boil and prepare the macaroni as above. When ready 
chop it slightly and add six oimces of bread crumbs, a 
teaspoon of thyme, and one of parsley. Fry in butter three 
finely sliced onions and two tomatoes; when done, turn into 
the mixture, adding one egg, a tablespoon of sugar, pepper, 
and salt. Shape into cutlets, roll in flour, and fry in hot 
fat, drain and serve with a rich smooth tomato sauce, 
garnished with parsley and toast sippets. 



320 Cereals 

Macaroni with Saffron Curry Sauce 

Boil a half package of macaroni in the usual way. To 
one pint of red stock add a half teaspoon of curry pov/der 
and a saltspoon of saffron, rub a little flour and butter 
together, and thicken the sauce to the consistency of honey ; 
add salt, a teaspoon of sugar, and heat the macaroni in the 
sauce until it is hot, then serve. 

Macaroni with Spinach 

Have ready boiled and blanched a package of macaroni 
broken into short lengths. Wash thoroughly two quarts of 
spinach and boil it in the usual way; when done, drain it 
carefully, chop very fine, drain it again, then pan it in 
butter. Place the macaroni on a hot platter, turn the 
spinach in the center of it, dust the top with pepper and salt, 
pour over all a gill of melted butter, and sprinkle the top 
with a little freshly grated Parmesan cheese. 

Italian Spaghetti 

To one package of boiled and blanched spaghetti add a 
small cup of bread crumbs that have been fried in butter 
and drained, with a dusting of pepper and salt, a gill of 
melted butter in which a half teaspoon of powdered saffron 
has been mixed, and a cup and a half of smooth tomato 
sauce about the consistency of honey. Wipe the serving 
dish with a bud of garlic and turn in the mixture. 

Spaghetti Cutlets 

Boil a half package of spaghetti until done, then drain, 
blanch, and chop it in small pieces. Add to it six ounces 
of bread crumbs, one large onion that has been chopped and 
browned in butter, a teaspoon of chopped parsley, a tea- 



Cereals 321 

spoon of lemon juice, a couple of tomatoes that have been 
chopped and fried with the onion, a saltspoon of pepper, 
and two saltspoons of salt, a dash of sugar, and one beaten 
egg to bind the mixture. Mix all well and shape into cutlets. 
Dip each in egg, roll them in flour, then fry them in hot fat. 
Serve with a rich smooth tomato sauce. 

Buttered Spaghetti 

Boil a half package of spaghetti as usual; add a teaspoon 
of fresh fennel seed to a half pint of melted butter and let 
simmer for five minutes without burning; add a teaspoon 
of onion juice, a saltspoon each of salt and cayenne pepper, 
and mix with the spaghetti. When hot remove from the 
fire and stir into it a half cup of grated English cheese. 

Spaghetti a la Turque 

Boil half a package of spaghetti, wash and drain, then 
chop it quite fine, and add a half pint of fine dry bread 
crumbs, with a grated onion, two tablespoons of chopped 
parsley, a saltspoon of pepper, and a half teaspoon of 
salt, a tablespoon of chutney syrup, a generous rating of 
nutmeg, and one beaten egg. Turn the mixture into small, 
buttered cups, and steam for an hour and a half, then turn 
out on to individual plates and cover with a ricli brown 
gravy. 

Spaghetti in Tomato Aspic 

Boil and blanch a package of spaghetti, then chop it 
coarsely. Take a large can of tomatoes and add a little 
chopped celery, a sliced onion, and a bunch of savory herbs. 
Boil this mixture for half an hour, then strain; add to the 
strained tomato juice three heaping tablespoons of powdered 
gelatine that has been soaked a little while in cold water. 
When the gelatine is thoroughly melted, add seasoning to 
taste, and strain the sauce over the spaghetti. Pour all into 
a mold that has been wet with cold water and set aside to 



322 Cereals 

chill and harden. When ready to serve, turn out of the 
mold and slice on lettuce leaves, covering each slice with 
rich mayonnaise. 

Vermicelli and Noodles 

Vermicelli is made of the same paste that macaroni, 
spaghetti, and angel tresses are made of, which is a 
wheaten flour flavored with other articles and worked 
up with water into a paste. The finest is made from the 
flour of the hard-grained. Black Sea wheat. 

Besides being used in broths and soups the vermicelli 
may be used as a vegetable, being plain boiled by being 
plunged into boiling salted water and boiling rapidly for 
ten minutes, then drained and served in tomato sauce or 
butter sauce. 

Vermicelli Custard 

Boil, drain, and blanch a half box of vermicelli; then 
add to it a cup of hot milk, a cup of hot cream, a cup of 
sugar, three beaten eggs, a teaspoon of vanilla, a grating 
of nutmeg, and twelve large seeded raisins that have been 
allowed to marinate in ginger syrup for a half hour. Pour all 
into a buttered baking dish and set the dish in a pan of hot 
water in the oven until the custard sets. Serve the pudding 
hot or cold with whipped cream. 

NOODLES 

Though noodles may be purchased ready-made in any 
quantity or shape desired, made of the same Italian paste 
that the macaronis are made of, they are nicer when made 
at home. The various Italian pastes contain about the 
nourishment of our white bread. But used in combinations 
with vegetables and meats they make very satisfactory 
and wholesome dishes. 



Cereals 3^3 

To Make Plain Noodles 

Take four tablespoons of flour and add to it one well- 
beaten egg, mixing thoroughly; when the dough becomes 
hard knead it until it becomes soft, pliable, and free from 
stickiness. Then roll it out in a very thin sheet, place it on 
a linen cloth, and hang it in the air for about fifteen minutes 
so that it may dry, then roll it tightly and, beginning at 
either end of the roll, slice it down thinly with a sharp knife. 
When cut, shake the noodles up, place them on a clean sheet 
of brown paper, and let them dry in the sun, or in a cooling 
oven for a couple of hours, then put them into a mason jar 
and screw down the cover tight. They are then ready for 
use. 

Besides being used in soups noodles are made into many 
so-called made dishes. 

Noodles with Brown Sauce 

Take two cups of noodles and add them gently to a 
quart of boiling salted water and boil ten minutes. Drain 
carefully, then add them to a well-seasoned brown sauce, and 
serve them with a steak or pork tenderloins. 

Escalloped Noodles 

Boil the noodles in the usual way, drain and put a layer in 
the bottom of a buttered baking dish. Then put a layer of 
diced carrots, potatoes, and a grated onion, a dusting of 
pepper and salt, and a teaspoon of sugar. Then add another 
layer of the noodles and continue in this way until the 
dish is full. Then turn over all a gill of melted butter and 
a cup of well-seasoned tomato sauce which is about the 
thickness of strained honey. Bake for thirty minutes and 
serve with any good roast. If a small lump of butter is 
added to the boiling water in which any of the macaroni 
pastes are to be boiled, it will prevent them from sticking 
to the saucepan. 



SALADS 

Study should be given to the making of several kinds of 
salad dressings and to ascertaining with which kinds of food 
they best combine so as to be wholesome and digestible. 

Lettuce must be fresh, well washed, crisp and cold, and 
wiped dry before it is used, so that water will not thin 
the dressing. Celery should be white and crisp, onions, 
shalots, leeks, garlic, and chives must be fresh and ready at 
hand if needed. The best olive, walnut, or peanut oil that 
can be purchased or the best butter to melt should alone 
be used in dressings. 

Fruit salads, always appealing, are doubly so when spring 
brings the fruits in variety. All juicy fruits prepared for 
salads should be placed in a little white enamel strainer over 
a bowl while they are chilling so that when the salad is 
prepared the juices may not thin the dressing. The fruit 
juices may always be used with carbonated water for a cold 
drink, or made up as a pudding sauce. 

Salad garnishes are in wide assortment, with all of the 
different lettuces, chives, onions, cucumbers, and tomatoes 
cut in fancy ways; cold cut vegetables; red beet leaves to 
mix with the lettuces; radishes, red and green peppers, 
fresh olives, green almonds, pickled corn, fish pastes, olives, 
pepper, and cold boiled egg rings, cockscombs, kidneys, and 
fancy bottled hors-d'oeuvres that come in variety. All 
these are aids to the salad garnisher. Egg pond-lilies and 
tomato roses and baskets must not be overlooked. 

With the use of proper sauces, cold fish and shellfish 
may be utilized in making salads. Fish salads are little 
used, because people do not understand adding ingredients 

324 



Salads 325 

which lighten them sufficiently to make them acceptable, 
or they put on dressings which soak into and separate the 
fiber so as to make the whole salad seem unpalatable. 

Fish to be used for salads must be very fresh and cooked 
only until they are done, not until they are soft. They 
must be drained carefully, cooked quickly, and prepared 
just before they are needed, with the dressing added, just 
as the salad goes to the table. Fish salads should never 
be allowed to stand after being dressed. 

In springtime one's thoughts naturally turn to the fresh 
growing green things for salad use instead of the heavier 
combinations used during the winter. Freshly plucked 
watercress and young dandelion are the first real outdoor 
salad material grown according to nature and not cultivated 
by man. Then early lettuces, upland cress, romaine, field 
lettuce, chicory, peppergrass, and a number of others 
familiar in different localities are much sought after for 
the salad dish. 

Scissors are useful for cutting fruits, green pepper rings, 
dough for biscuit, the wings and sinews of fowls, the string 
and thread used in trussing, the centers out of grapefruit, 
toast fingers and a dozen other things for which a knife is 
useless. It is difficult for a cook to get along without 
them. 

They should be kept clean and bright and hanging on a 
convenient nail, near the string bag. 

Chapon 

The chapon is a slice of bread stuck with four garlic 
buds, four cloves, and slightly moistened with tarragon 
vinegar. It is laid in the salad bowl under the salad to 
flavor it. 

FISH SALADS 

Oyster Salad 

Select one quart of solid oysters, and when their liquor 
comes to a boil add the oysters. When they boil up once 



326 Salads 

remove the oysters, drain and cool. Take three egg yolks, 
half a cup of butter, a quarter cup of sugar, half a cup of 
vinegar and a tablespoon of dry mustard. Stir the ingredi- 
ents over the fire until the eggs begin to thicken, then 
remove from the fire but keep stirring for two minutes or 
until the mixture is thoroughly smooth. Shred the hearts 
of two heads of white lettuce and mix one cup of finely 
chopped celery with the oysters. When the dressing is 
cold lay up the salad and garnish with olives and a little 
chopped red pepper. If the oysters are large they may be 
cut through once or twice. This will serve six people. 

Scallop Salad 

Drain and dry one quart of large scallops, dip in beaten 
egg, and roll them in fine cracker crumbs, to which add a 
tablespoon heaped up of grated English cheese, a salt- 
spoon of pepper, and a half teaspoon of salt. Drop singly 
into hot fat. When a delicate brown lift and drain on 
blotting paper. After they have become cold, serve on 
lettuce leaves or in very thin patty shells covered with 
tartare sauce and garnish with watercress. This will serve 
six people. 

Codfish Tongue Salad 

Allow one codfish tongue to each portion. Wash 
and put them on in cold water, adding a bunch of savory 
herbs, a stalk of celery, an onion, a clove, a saltspoon each 
of pepper and salt, and a tablespoon of vinegar. When 
they reach the boiling point allow them to boil ten minutes, 
throw them into cold water, skin and trim and place on 
ice to chill. When chilled slice them thin and allow them 
to marinate in French dressing twenty minutes. Add 
one cup of chopped cucumber and mayonnaise made with 
mustard, toss the salad lightly, nest in white lettuce leaves, 
garnishing with cress and capers; serve small beaten biscuits 
with the salad. This will serve four people. 



Salads 327 

Frogs' Legs Salad 

Parboil frogs' legs until' tender; one dozen will yield two 
cups of meat when picked from the bones. Add to them one 
chopped red pepper and a half cup of chopped celery ; sprinkle 
with a little salt and mignonette pepper. Parboil a quarter 
pound of calf's liver ; when done, chop finely and add it to 
one glass of melted apple jelly; add a dash of red pepper, 
juice of half a lemon; when cool turn over the salad, chill 
well, and serve in lettuce leaves garnished with olives and 
pimentos. Will be sufiBcient for four people. 

Shad Roe Salad 

Boil two large shad's roes in salt water. Be careful not 
to boil them so that they break in pieces. When done, 
drain and cool. As soon as cold, cut into sHces, dust with 
salt and pepper, juice of a lemon, tarragon vinegar, and 
juice of an onion; let stand three hours. A half bud of 
garlic will improve the flavor, if garlic is liked. Drain and 
lay on white lettuce leaves, cover with mayonnaise with 
a dash of paprika in it and garnish with watercress. Will 
serve six people. 

Baked Lobster Salad 

For the salad take the meat of one boiled lobster weighing 
two and a half pounds, shred as finely as possible, add a half 
cup of bread crumbs, a tablespoon of chopped walnuts, 
one beaten egg, two tablespoons of melted butter, and a 
tablespoon of cream. Form the mixture into miniature 
croquettes the size of large queen olives, roll in egg and very 
fine crumbs, put on buttered baking pan, and bake in the 
oven to a delicate brown, basting with a teaspoon of 
melted butter and a tablespoon of sherry. When cool 
serve on lettuce leaves with heavy mayonnaise, garnished 
with oHve rings and lobster coral. Will serve four people. 



328 Salads 

Mussel Salad 

Either steam the mussels fresh, or the spiced mussels in 
bottles may be used. If the latter are chosen, drain them 
carefully and put them to marinate in French dressing. 
When ready to lay up the salad, drain the mussels and add 
to them a cup of finely chopped celery, a finely chopped 
red pepper, and a heart of lettuce cut up fine with the scis- 
sors. Toss the salad in light mayonnaise and serve it 
garnished with white egg rings and olives. This will serve 
four people. 

Chicken Halibut Salad with Fresh Tomatoes 

Cut three pounds of chicken halibut in one-inch slices 
and cook them in a court bouillon made of two quarts of 
cold water, one carrot, two onions, half a wineglass of vine- 
gar, and season to taste with thyme, bay leaves, parsley 
root, salt, and pepper. Boil the bouillon thirty minutes, 
then allow it to cool before putting the fish into it. Cook 
at boiling point ten minutes, then remove from the fire, 
and chill on the ice. Make a dressing of one soup- 
spoon of French mustard, one spoon of tarragon vinegar, 
three spoons of olive oil, one-half teaspoon of salt, one- 
half teaspoon of chervil and chives, and pepper to taste. 
Put a slice of chilled fish on a slice of tomato and add the 
dressing. Garnish the salad with olives and cold boiled 
egg stars. This will serve eight people. 

Snapper Salad 

Carefully flake a pound and a half of cold boiled red 
snapper and add to it one cup of chopped celery, six olives 
and three gherkins chopped fine, and three tablespoons of 
French dressing to which the juice of an onion has been 
added. Cut the white centers from two heads of chicory, 
wash, cut into small pieces and toss with the salad. Add 
sufficient heavy mayonnaise to mix the salad thoroughly 



Salads 329 

and serve in white lettuce leaves garnished with capers 
that have been washed in ice water, and a little chopped red 
pepper and olives, the green and red garnish being especially- 
decorative with the brilliant colored fish. This will serve 
four people. 

Shad and Pineapple Salad 

To two cups of boned and flaked cold boiled or broiled 
shad, add three quarters of a cup of chopped celery, one 
cup of chopped, drained pineapple, a saltspoon of pepper 
and a half teaspoon of salt, and one tablespoon of chutney 
syrup added to two tablespoons of French dressing. Toss all 
together. Add the heart of one white head of lettuce cut in 
ribbons, afid serve on green lettuce leaves with a tablespoon 
of mayonnaise on top of each salad portion and garnish 
with a little ear of pickled French corn. This will serve 
four people. 

Crab and Fresh Olive Salad 

Add to one pound of flaked crab meat one cup of finely 
chopped celery, one cup of seeded and chopped fresh ripe 
olives, one finely chopped gherkin, and a small red pepper 
cut into ribbons. Toss the salad with three tablespoons 
of French dressing made with walnut oil, serve in white 
lettuce leaves with a tablespoon of mayonaise, made also 
with walnut oil, on each portion, with one pitted ripe olive 
in the center. This will serve four people. 

MEAT AND GAME SALADS 

Russian Salad 

Take one cup of chopped cold boiled tongue and add a 
half cup of chopped cabbage, half a cup of chopped celery, 
three chopped peppers, and one thinly sliced or chopped 
Spanish onion. To one cup of mayonnaise, add enough 
ketchup to color the dressing a light pink, then add two gher- 



330 Salads 

kins, one pepper, two shalots, three olives chopped fine, 
and three sardines that have been flaked with a silver fork. 
Toss the salad lightly and put one hard-boiled egg through 
the ricer over the top, as a garnish. This will serve six 
people. 

Swiss Chicken Salad 

Prepare the chicken in the usual way, add a cup of chopped 
celery, quarter of a cup of ground nuts, and a can of French 
peas drained. Mix the salad with a dressing made of 
one cup of sour cream, the juice of half a lemon, two tea- 
spoons of vinegar, one of sugar, a half saltspoon of pepper, 
and a saltspoon of salt. Serve in lettuce with red beet 
leaves and nasturtium blossoms for garnish. This will 
serve four people. 

Chicken Salad Pie 

For the chicken salad pie make a large shell of good pie 
crust, rolled rather thin and baked over a well-buttered, 
inverted, deep, jelly layer tin. Prepare a good chicken 
salad in the usual way — white meat, chopped celery, hearts 
of two heads of chicory cut fine, and a small white heart of 
lettuce cut into ribbons. Toss all lightly in good mayon- 
naise, to which the juice of half an onion and a half cup of 
whipped cream have been added. Fill the pie shell with 
the salad, heaped up, and garnish it with olives in red 
pepper rings and a hard-boiled egg cut down into eight 
quarter-shaped pieces and laid open in the center like a 
flower with a little heap of finely chopped red pepper in the 
center. To eat with the salad, powder a few triscuits 
with grated cheese and a dusting of red pepper, heat them 
in the oven until the cheese melts and then serve. This 
will serve six people. 

Veal Salad 

Take a cup and a half of finely minced cold veal, add 
some finely chopped celery and cut lettuce. Season highly 



Salads 331 

and mix well with a heavy mayonnaise. Cold lamb may 
be used in the same way in an emergency. 

Baked Sweetbread Salad 

Parboil and blanch a good pair of fresh sweetbreads. 
When cold, split and thickly spread with a mixture of 
chopped olives, nuts, yolk of hard-boiled egg, and a green 
pepper after removing the seeds, butter, and a dusting of 
cracker crumbs, all worked to a paste. Spread the paste 
on the sweetbreads, tie the halves together with the kitchen 
tape, sprinkle with pepper, salt, and a little melted butter. 
Bake a delicate brown in a hot oven, and when cold slice 
in thick slices and arrange them on lettuce leaves, serving 
with mayonnaise dressing. Will serve four people. 

Austrian Pigeon Salad 

Cut the meat from two boiled pigeons, add to it one 
cup of finely chopped celery, three quarters of a cup of 
finely chopped walnuts, add the crumbs of six stale maca- 
roons, one very finely chopped red pepper with six finely 
chopped olives, and to the heavy mayonnaise add a teaspoon 
of fresh fennel seed and a tablespoon of whipped cream. 
Toss the salad lightly in the dressing, wipe the inside of the 
salad bowl with a bud of garlic, then line it with white 
lettuce leaves and lay up the salad, garnishing the top of 
it with quarters of deviled egg. Will serve six people. 

Duck and Orange Salad 

Take a cold roast duck and dice enough meat to make two 
cups, pare two firm juicy oranges, dice the flesh and put 
it in to chill, and drain in a small white enamel sieve. 
Shred a small head of white lettuce, chop celery enough to 
make a half cup. When ready to serve toss the ingredients 
in three tablespoons of French dressing, then add heavy 
mayonnaise made with mustard, garnish with olives stuffed 



332 Salads 

with celery and chopped red peppers. Will serve four 
people. 

Salad Puffs 

• Roll good puff paste thin and cut pieces four inches wide 
by eight inches long; roll, stuff the roll with soft paper to 
keep its shape, and seal with white of egg. Bake a delicate 
brown. When cold pull out the paper, fill with finely 
chopped and rich chicken salad, dipping the end in whipped 
cream, then into powdered nuts. Serve two, tied with 
narrow white satin ribbon on a lace paper doily, to each 
guest. 

Squab Salad 

Parboil six squabs and a pair of sweetbreads. When the 
birds are done and cold, strip the meat from the bones and 
dice it. Add to it the diced sweetbreads, one cup of chopped 
celery, one half cup chopped pecan nuts, the white hearts of 
two heads of chicory cut fine, one hard-boiled egg chopped, 
and a half cup of olive rings. Add to the mayonnaise a 
tablespoon of chutney syrup and a dash of cayenne pepper. 
Mix the salad well and serve in deep lettuce leaves. 

VEGETABLE SALADS 

The usual well-known salad combinations of vegetables 
that have been boiled and diced, lettuces, cucumbers, toma- 
toes, and the usual salad ingredients have been omitted. 
The following recipes are unusual enough to be worth 
considering. 

Barbe de Capucin 

There are three varieties of the barbe to be found in our 
markets (perhaps it is better known to most of us as 
"chicory"; in some localities it is "goat's beard" or monk's 
beard"), but they all belong to the endive family. Barbe 



Salads 333 

is the pale green variety, blanched is the white loosely 
curled, and witloof is the pinkish curled solid heads. 

Endive in salad may be dressed with a French dressing 
made with horse-radish or beet vinegar, or may be stuffed 
with Roquefort cheese and have a French dressing, to 
which a half cup of grated pineapple has been added. Or 
one may add to the French dressing a tablespoon of Manda- 
lay sauce, a tablespoon of East India chutney sauce, or a 
teaspoon of preserved sweet mixed pickles. Any of the 
mayonnaise sauces prepared or plain do not go as well 
with this bitter salad as the thinner sauces do. 

Stxiffed Endive Salad 

Take firm, crisp stalks of endive, force open the leaves 
and fill them with a mixture of Roquefort and cream cheese, 
blended together with a little heavy French dressing. 
Fold the leaves back in place and serve on lettuce. Garnish 
with pimento olives. 

Romaine Salad 

After careful washing, cut the romaine for the salad into 
strips with the kitchen scissors, and cut the peppers also 
in very thin strips. Before making the French dressing 
wipe the inside of the bowl with a bud of garlic. Do not 
dress the salad until just before it is served, so that it will 
be light and crisp. Cheese wafers or crackers and cheese 
will be nice with the salad. 

New Potato Salad 

Boil eight medium-sized potatoes; when done and cold, 
pare them and cut them into slices or dice them. Let the 
potatoes marinate for twenty minutes in heavy French 
dressing to which have been added a bud of garlic and the 
juice of four onions. Have ready a rather thin mayon- 
naise, to which add one finely chopped cucumber from which 



334 Salads 

the seeds have been removed, a small stalk of celery, one 
red pepper, and three olives also chopped fine. Line the 
salad bowl with lettuce leaves, drain the potatoes, then toss 
all in the mayonnaise, turn into the salad bowl, and garnish 
with quarters of hard-boiled eggs and strips of red pepper. 
The French dressing drained from the potatoes may be 
used again for another salad. This will serve six people. 

Cauliflower Bouquet 

Select one large perfect cauliflower and boil until tender, 
but not soft enough to break; drain it and set it to cool. 
Arrange in the salad bowl a lining of well-washed red and 
green beet leaves; place the cauliflower in the center; cover 
with remolade dressing made of one beaten raw egg, a 
teaspoon of mixed mustard, three tablespoons of olive oil, 
a tablespoon of vinegar, and a teaspoon of chutney syrup. 
Garnish with little carrot roses that have been marinated in 
lemon juice and sugar for half an hour, and put in the 
center of each a little bit of chopped red pepper. This will 
serve six people. 

Cranbeny Salad 

Stew one pint of large cranberries in as Httle water as 
possible and, when done, sweeten with a cup of sugar 
and let them get cold. Add to them one cup of chopped 
nut meats and a cup each of chopped celery and apple. 
Add the juice of half an orange and half a lemon, and fold 
in a small quantity of mayonnaise made without mustard. 
Crackers and cheese are nice with this salad. This will 
serve six people. 

Hot Beet Salad 

Boil enough medium-sized beets to allow one to a portion. 
When done and skinned, hollow out the centers, leaving a 
deep cup, and set them in a steamer to keep hot. Chop 



Salads 335 

the beet pieces with two peppers, two gherkins, two table- 
spoons of pine nuts, and a teaspoon of pickled nasturtium 
seeds. Make the same sauce as for the cabbage salad, 
adding, when done, a tablespoon of chopped chutney sweet 
pickle. Add to the sauce the chopped ingredients that 
are left after filling the beet cups and turn it hot over the 
beets. Serve tiny finger rolls with this salad. 

Pakchoi, Chinese Salad 

Take one head of Chinese cabbage salad, wash, break it 
apart, and cut it into pieces with the kitchen scissors. 
Take one bunch of pakchoi (mustard vegetable), wash, 
cut the leaves with the salad, chop one red pepper and one 
onion very fine and add them to the salad. Take two slices 
of pickled pork, dice and fry a deHcate brown, but do not fry 
to a crisp ; drain, cool, and add the squares to the other salad 
ingredients. Make a thin mustard mayonnaise, adding to 
it a tablespoon of fat from the pork; also add a table- 
spoon of ginger syrup, toss the salad Hghtly with the sauce, 
and serve with crackers made of rice flour. This will 
serve six people. 

Fried Salad 

This very odd salad, which is of Bohemian origin, is 
excellent to serve with a game dinner. Remove all the 
green leaves from a white head of cauliflower; wash thor- 
oughly, then let it boil in salted water until tender though 
firm. Drain, and when cold slice in medium slices, dip in 
egg, dust with very fine cracker crumbs, and fry in butter. 
Drain and cool, and when cold lay the slices on white 
lettuce leaves and turn over them a sour cream dressing. 
The dressing is made of one gill of sour cream, the juice 
of half a lemon, and two teaspoons of sugar. Garnish each 
portion with a small sweet pickled, yellow tomato. Will 
serve six people. 



336 Salads 

Fenuchi Salad 

The Italians eat fenuchi as we do celery and the tops they 
boil with meat. Fenuchi makes an excellent salad cut fine 
with diced pineapple; dress with heavy mayonnaise and 
serve on white lettuce leaves. Just before adding the 
mayonnaise add a heaping tablespoon of whipped cream 
and a tablespoon of good sherry. Serve cheese straws with 
the salad. One bunch of fenuchi will serve four people. 

Fennel Seed Salad 

Wash carefully two tablespoons of fresh fennel seed 
and then marinate them in French dressing that has been 
highly seasoned and has a saltspoon of mignonette pepper 
added to it. Line the salad bowl with dark green lettuce 
leaves. Cut the hearts of two heads of romaine and the 
white centers from two heads of chicory, cut them up into 
pieces with the kitchen scissors, wash, and drain. Dice the 
flesh of one large or two small alligator pears ; mix the salad, 
turning the fennel sauce over it. Serve garnished with the 
following: Take the yolks of three hard-boiled eggs, soften 
them to a paste with the juice of an onion, a half saltspoon 
of pepper, a saltspoon of salt, a dessertspoon of very finely 
chopped pecan nut meats, and a little French dressing. Add 
a teaspoon of anchovy paste, mix thoroughly, then mold into 
balls. Halve and stone enough large olives to press one- 
half on either side of each egglet ; dice the white of one of 
the eggs and heap it in the center of the salad, dusting it 
with paprika; lay the egglets around the edge. This will 
serve six people. 

Baked Bean Salad 

Take two cups of cold baked beans and a half cup of 
the lean pork diced that has been baked with the beans. 
Mix two tablespoons of olive oil, one tablespoon of vinegar, 
the juice of an onion, a saltspoon of salt, a half saltspoon of 



Salads 337 

redpepper, two tablespoons of tomato ketchup, a tablespoon 
of sugar, and two tablespoons of mustard sauce. Beat all 
well together, add one cup of finely chopped celery and 
after the salad is carefully mixed serve on lettuce leaves 
withbrown bread toast fingers. 

Tansy Salad 

Select a large, heavy grapefruit, separate the flesh from 
the bitter skin in as large segments as possible, then set 
away in the strainer to chill. Line the salad bowl with 
green lettuce leaves : then cut into pieces one head of lettuce 
or romaine; add the grapefruit and sprinkle over it a heaping 
tablespoon of finely chopped tansy ; turn over French dress- 
ing and garnish with white hard-boiled egg rings with an 
ohve curl in the center of each, the curl being lightly spread 
with anchovy paste. This will serve four people. 

Truffle Salad 

Take one third artichoke bottoms, cut the size and thick- 
ness of a nickel, one third black truffles, cut in thin round 
slices like the artichokes, and one third asparagus tips cut 
about three quarters of an inch long; mix together and 
season with French dressing and a Httle mustard. Serve 
in lettuce leaves, garnished with pimento oHves. Another 
way to arrange this salad is to line the salad bowl with 
lettuce leaves, place the truffles in the center, arranging 
alternate bouquets of the asparagus tips and artichokes 
around the edge, turning the dressing over all. 

EGG, NUT, AND CHEESE SALADS 
Cream Cheese with Macedoine Vegetables 

A tablespoon of finely chopped pimento, of green pepper, 
and of olives is the right proportion for a ten-cent square of 
cream cheese. Moisten with a little French dressing and 



338 Salads 

pack in after-dinner coffee cups. This makes a pretty- 
sized slice when turned out, cut, and served on lettuce 
leaves. This amount will serve four people. 

Endive and Roquefort Cheese Salad 

In making the salad, after washing the endive, loosen 
the center leaves and stuff with Roquefort cheese which has 
been mashed soft, with a little French dressing. Serve 
sliced down on dark green lettuce leaves with French dress- 
ing and toasted water crackers. One pound of endive will 
serve four people. 

Deviled Salad Balls 

Take the yolks of four hard-boiled eggs and devil them, 
with a saltspoon of salt, the same amount of pepper, table- 
spoon of olive oil, a dessertspoon of Worcestershire sauce, to 
form the paste, then form into little balls ; roll in powdered 
nuts and drop into the salad among the leaves. Cover 
with mayonnaise. 

Extra mayonnaise may be placed in the center of the 
salad in a half-lemon skin, having a slice cut from the 
bottom, so that it will stand upright. 

Pineapple and Cheese Salad 

For the salad pare and dice one large pineapple. Add 
to it half a cup of chopped celery, and the white center of a 
headof chicory cut up fine. Take a package of cream cheese 
and a piece of Roquefort cheese about the same size, add 
a saltspoon of salt, half saltspoon of red pepper, a table- 
spoon of finely chopped pecan nuts, the juice of a small 
onion, and enough cream added very slowly to make a 
molding paste. Fashion into balls the size of a marble, 
line the salad dish with dark green lettuce leaves. Drain 
the fruit, cover with heavy mayonnaise, and garnish the 
top with green pickled cherries and the cheese balls. 



Salads 339 

Frozen Cheese Salad 

This frozen salad is good to serve to break a heavy dinner, 
instead of an ice or frozen punch. 

To make it beat one package of cream cheese with a 
quarter of a cup of sweet cream, six finely chopped raisins, a 
saltspoon of salt, a half saltspoon of paprika, a saltspoon of 
sugar, a tablespoon of sherry, and a teaspoon of powdered 
pecans. Mix well, turn into a freezer, but do not freeze 
hard. Remove in time to mold, then pack in ice until 
ready to serve, when it is to be sliced onto lettuce leaves 
and covered with mayonnaise made without mustard. 
This will serve four people. 

Bird's Nest Salad 

Take as many hearts of white lettuce as there are portions 
to b3 served, wash, and with kitchen scissors hollow out the 
centers by snipping out two or three of the leaves. Mix 
to a paste a package of cream cheese and the same weight 
in Roquefort, the juice of an onion, one red pepper, four 
olives, and a quarter cup of pecan nut meats chopped fine, 
a tablespoon of chutney syrup, a saltspoon of mignonette 
pepper, and enough sweet cream to make the paste soft 
enough to mold. When ready mold into eggs the size 
of marbles, put six in each nest on a little of the lettuce 
shredded, and send to table with a tureen of Russian dress- 
ing made of mayonnaise, to which add enough tomato 
ketchup to color it a delicate pink, add juice of an onion, a 
teaspoon of chopped red and green pepper, and a finely 
minced shalot. 

Fresh Olive Salad 

Take one can of ripe olives, drain, halve, and seed, add 
half a cup of chopped celery, half a cup of chopped walnuts, 
a half red pepper, two tablespoons of grated pineapple. 
Mix well with three tablespoons of French dressing, serve 



340 Salads 

in white lettuce leaves with a tablespoon of mayonnaise on 
each portion, in the center of which place one stoned olive. 
This will serve four people. 

Litchi Salad 

The litchi nuts, ripe and bottled, come from the Island 
of Madagascar and are about the size of a large olive. 
They are wrinkled like a preserved fruit and are a pinkish 
fawn in color. Their pits are edible and add a good flavor 
to the salad. They must be drained and then may be cut 
in half. Add a half cup of chopped celery, some shredded 
white lettuce, and dress the salad with Madagascar sauce. 
This is a very rich mayonnaise with heart of palm chopped 
through it. A pint bottle of the nuts will serve four people. 

Bonbon Salad 

Shape small sized balls of new pimento cheese and roll 
them in finely ground pecan nuts, press a half white grape 
on either side of the cheese. Allow six to a portion ar- 
ranged on white lettuce leaves, and cover with heavy mayon- 
naise, to which a little whipped cream has been added just 
before serving. 

A New Egg Salad 

Boil six fresh eggs until hard; peel them after they are 
cold, and cut each into six melon shaped pieces. Chop 
enough celery to make one cup, cut small the white centers 
of two heads of chicory, grate one onion and one cucumber 
after removing the seeds ; mix all in the salad bowl and toss 
in mayonnaise that is slightly thinned by the addition of a 
tablespoon of chutney syrup and a tablespoon of whipped 
cream. Serve on lettuce leaves and garnish with a little 
chopped red pepper. This salad will be sufficient for four 
people and is good with cold meat for luncheon. 



Salads 341 

Hazelnut Salad 

Shell and blanch one pound of hazelnuts and grind half 
of them fine in a grinder. Grate half of a pineapple, 
mix with the nuts and a tablespoonful of sherry, juice 
of half a lemon, and a tablespoon of powdered sugar. 
Let stand one hour, then drain and add a package of cream 
cheese, mix to a paste, then make into balls with a whole 
nut in the center of each, pile on white lettuce leaves, and 
cover with mayonnaise. This will serve four people. 

Salade au Nid 

Boil eight fresh eggs hard. When cold cut lengthwise 
and remove the yolks, then cut the whites into strips. 
Mash the yolks to a paste with a tablespoon of olive oil, 
juice of an onion, teaspoon Worcestershire sauce, and six 
finely chopped pimento olives. Have boiled until tender 
and finely chopped one slice of calf's liver; add to this a 
small package of cream cheese, a teaspoon of sugar, a salt- 
spoon of pepper, a saltspoon of salt, and enough sweet 
cream to make a paste; blend it with the egg paste and 
form into balls. Form a nest of the white strips on white 
lettuce leaves and allow five or six of the cheese balls to each 
portion. Before serving cover each portion with mayon- 
naise and garnish with a single spray of watercress. 

THE MAKING OF CANNED SALADS 

If unexpected company arrives just at the dinner hour, 
and one wishes to add a salad to the dinner already planned, 
why not make use of canned salad material? Living a 
little distance from the grocer's shop is sometimes as unfor- 
tunate as being a mile away ; the housekeeper will see to it 
that a few cans of available salad material are always at 
hand. A bottle of macidoine vegetables, salmon, sardines, 
artichoke hearts, olives, gherkin pickles, chow-chow, 



342 Salads 

pickled onions, pickled beets, a bottle of pickled lambs' 
tongues, tunny fish, herring roe in oil, game pate, canned 
breast of chicken, derby tongue, string beans, asparagus 
tips — these are a few of the many canned things that lend 
themselves acceptably to the salad course. 

Salad vinegars and oils are generally on hand, as are other 
every-day condiments, and there is usually a supply of 
eggs that may be boiled to make a salad, while the roast is 
being eaten. Celery and lettuce are often an uncertain 
quantity, so sometimes substitutes must take their place. 
If the housewife has been thoughtful enough to can some 
fruit in a light syrup, this may also be used for a fruit salad. 
Pineapple, pear, and peach are the most useful fruits. 

Spanish peppers, put up in oil, one should always have 
ready on the shelf, for they are useful in many ways, and 
fresh ones are not always easy to get in winter. French 
chestnuts are put up especially for salad use, and are un- 
sweetened; these are excellent with grapefruit. Now and 
then a hot salad is a novelty, and is acceptable if it has 
not been preceded by too hearty a menu. The following 
recipes are good ones with which to experiment. 

Celery and lettuces have been left out of these recipes, 
for they are often difficult to get but, of course, if they are 
at hand, they may be used in the various salads where they 
generally appear. Cheeses have also been left out for the 
same reason. 

Grapefruit Salad 

If fortunate enough to have a couple of grapefruit on 
hand, a cup of bottled French chestnuts may be chopped 
and added to the pulp, with a few sliced truffles and a 
dressing made of two parts walnut oil, one part tarragon 
vinegar, a half saltspoon of pepper, a saltspoon of salt, and 
a dessertspoon of vanilla syrup beaten thoroughly. This 
makes a delightful salad, and cheese straws are served 
with it. This will serve four people. 



Salads 343 

Hot, Canned Corn Salad 

Take a can of corn and stew it in a little milk, adding 
two teaspoons of butter, a saltspoon of pepper, a half tea- 
spoon of salt, and a dessertspoon of sugar by way of season- 
ing. Add a half cup of flaked cold boiled codfish and two 
chopped Spanish peppers. When hot, drain the salad 
and fold in a cup of heavy mayonnaise; serve the salad on 
thin slices of brown bread, lightly spread with anchovy 
paste. The salad must be served as quickly as possible so 
as to retain its heat. This will serve four people plentifully. 

Artichoke Salad 

Six artichoke hearts come in one can. Drain the hearts 
and with a teaspoon hollow out the centers. The centers 
may then be filled with almost any sort of mixture that can 
be made in a hurry. Say, for instance, a sardine com- 
bination. Skin, bone, and break twelve sardines, adding to 
them a chopped pepper, two chopped gherkins, six pickled 
onions, a saltspoon of pepper, half teaspoon of salt, a table- 
spoon of chutney syrup, and enough French dressing to 
moisten the filling. Again, chopped vegetables, folded in 
mayonnaise make a good filling. "Otero" relish or "heart 
of palm "relish, both intended for canape, can be used in this 
way and are complete without the addition of any extra 
sauce. 

Hot Cabbage Salad 

Select one medium-sized cabbage, strip off the outside 
leaves, and cut out the hard core. Shave or slice the 
cabbage very thin; then cover with a cloth to keep it from 
drying out until ready to use. Put into a saucepan a half 
cup of sugar, a dessertspoon of dry mustard, a teaspoon 
of salt, a saltspoon of cayenne, a heaping tablespoon of 
butter, a tablespoon of onion juice, one beaten egg, a quarter 
cup of tarragon vinegar, and a half cup of cider vinegar. 



344 Salads 

Stir all well together and let it slowly come to the boiling 
point; boil up once, then set back and add three Spanish 
peppers and eight stoned olives chopped very fine. Slowly 
add the cabbage, a handful at a time. Keep stirring until 
it all melts down smooth and rich, then draw on to the fire 
to heat a minute or two. If it is too moist, drain, and 
serve with a pimento oHve on top of each portion. Serve 
cheese crackers with the salad. This will serve six people. 

Lamb's Tongue and Asparagus Salad 

Take a pint jar of the lamb's tongues, drain, and chop 
them fine. Add a half saltspoon of pepper, a saltspoon of 
salt, one minced pepper, one can asparagus tips cut small, 
two hard-boiled eggs chopped fine, and a tablespoon of 
washed capers. Use a light mayonnaise or a heavy French 
dressing. This will serve six people. 

Shrimp and Potato Salad 

Take one can of shrimps and break them into small 
pieces. Add to them two cups of cold boiled potato finely 
diced, a tablespoon of drained and rinsed capers, one 
Spanish onion finely minced, and one hard-boiled egg put 
through the ricer. Make the same dressing that was given 
for the hot cabbage salad, after allowing it to cool; or, a 
sweet cream dressing, made of one small cup of cream, 
a saltspoon of pepper, a half teaspoon of salt, two table- 
spoons of sugar, and three tablespoons of tarragon vinegar. 
Toss lightly in the dressing and let stand for a half hour to 
season through before serving, if that much time may be 
spared. The shrimps add an unusual flavor and a hearti- 
ness that help out a small dinner most satisfactorily. This 
serves six people. 

Bottled Breast of Chicken Salad 

One pint bottle holds enough chicken breast to make a 
salad for four people. Drain carefully and cut or chop the 



Salads 345 

chicken in pieces, as desired. Wash and add to it a heaping 
tablespoon of capers, six sHced truffles, two hard-boiled eggs 
chopped, and two gherkin pickles very thinly sliced; then 
fold in ma3^onnaise that has had a teaspoon of onion juice 
added to it. Or take a can of pineapple, drain and chop it 
fine ; add the white of two hard-boiled eggs chopped fine, six 
sliced truffles, and one minced pepper. Fold in mayonnaise 
to which has been added a heaping spoon of whipped cream. 
The egg and the whipped cream are added to Hghten the 
salad, in place of the usual celery. 

Cardoon Salad 

The salad made of cardoons is rather unusual. These 
French thistles should be drained from the can and allowed 
to marinate for a half hour in French dressing to which a 
little onion juice has been added. Drain, add good mayon- 
naise, and lay on white lettuce leaves garnished with the 
sweet pickled cucumber rings that come in bottles for the 
purpose. Toasted whole wheat crackers with melted 
cheese on them go nicely with this salad. This will serve 
four people. 

JELLIED SALADS 

Tomato Jelly 

Take one can of tomatoes, add to it three cups of water, a 
sliced onion, a bay leaf, a teaspoon of salt, a tablespoon of 
sugar, a bunch of savory herbs, a teaspoon of pepper, and 
three heaping tablespoons of gelatine. Beat over the fire 
until it begins to boil, allow it to boil for five minutes and 
add the whites and shells of two eggs. Beat all well to- 
gether and remove from the fire, letting it stand tightly 
covered for five minutes. Strain through a fine sieve, 
then through a piece of cheesecloth that has been wrung 
out of cold water, and finally into a ring mold that has 
been wet with cold water. When cold and beginning to set, 



34^ Salads 

press into the jelly stoned olives and the whites of three 
hard-boiled eggs cut into cubes. Make a bed of fresh 
lettuce leaves, turn the jelly ring upon it and fill the center 
with lettuce leaves cut to ribbons, a half a cup of chopped 
celery, a half cup of ground walnut meats, the yolks of the 
hard-boiled eggs put through a ricer, and cover the whole 
with good mayonnaise. This is sufficient for six people. 

Jellied Chicken Salad 

Prepare and boil one good tender chicken. When done and 
cool, cut the meat into small pieces, put the skin and bones 
into a saucepan with one quart of the liquor it was boiled in 
and one sliced onion, a bunch of savory herbs, a tablespoon 
of Worcestershire sauce, a tablespoon of chutney syrup, 
a half saltspoon of pepper, and a saltspoon of salt. Simmer 
until reduced nearly one half, then add one heaping table- 
spoon of gelatine that has been dissolved in hot water. Ar- 
range a layer of the chicken (first dipping each piece in may- 
onnaise) in a wet mold, then a layer of sliced hard-boiled 
eggs, then a layer of halved button mushrooms that have 
been sauted in butter and drained; then chicken, egg, and 
mushrooms until the chicken is used up. Strain over it the 
cooked liquor and set away to chill. When ready to serve 
turn on to a bed of lettuce leaves, garnish with stoned olives 
and a little chopped red pepper, slice down with a sharp 
knife, and cover each portion with heavy mayonnaise. This 
will serve six people. 

Cucumber Aspic 

Cucumber aspic is a salad jelly which is particularly 
nice and light to serve with a fairly heavy dinner. Pare and 
slice four large cucumbers and one onion, cover with one 
quart of cold water, season, and allow to simmer one hour. 
Soak a half package of gelatine in a little cold water, add to 
it a cup of cucumber liquid, stir until smooth, and pour 
into the cucumbers, which should be reduced by the cooking 



Salads 347 

one half. Turn into a wet mold and chill, and when 
thoroughly cold place on a bed of lettuce leaves. Serve 
one sHce on lettuce with each portion, covered with mayon- 
naise and garnished with oUve curls, and pimentos. This 
will serve six people. 

Nut and Cucumber Salad 

Boil in three cups of water two cups of sugar, twelve 
cloves, and add one cup of vinegar. When the mixture 
threads from the spoon, remove it from the fire and add 
two and a half heaping tablespoons of gelatine that has 
been dissolved in a little boiling water. Stir carefully 
and when the gelatine is dissolved strain and let it cool. 
Add one cup of hickory nut meats and a cup of sweet cu- 
cumber pickle thinly sliced, pour into a wet mold, and let 
it chill and set. Turn out on a bed of lettuce leaves, pour 
mayonnaise over it, and garnish on top with strips of red 
pepper. This will serve six people. 

Jelly and Cheese Salad 

Dissolve one tablespoon of gelatine in one cup of hot 
water. When cool add three ounces of grated cheese, one 
cup of whipped cream, a saltspoon of salt, a half saltspoon of 
pepper, and paprika to taste. Pour into small molds and 
when the jelly begins to harden cover the top with grated 
cheese. Serve on crisp lettuce leaves with French dressing. 
This will serve four people. 

Dutch Salad 

Pare and dice enough white turnips to fill two big cups. 
Boil the squares in water until tender when pierced with a 
straw. Drain and set them to cool. Take one pint of 
highly seasoned tomato juice and add to it two tablespoons 
of powdered gelatine that has been dissolved in a little cold 
water; let it heat until the gelatine is all melted, then set 



348 Salads 

aside to cool. When cool, arrange the turnip squares in a 
wet mold and pour in a layer of the tomato ; let that slightly 
stiffen, then add another layer of turnip, then the rest of the 
liquid. When ready to serve, cut the jelly with a sharp hot 
knife and serve on lettuce leaves, heaping mayonnaise 
on the top. Garnish with a radish rose in the center of 
each portion. This will serve six people. 

Shrimp Aspic Salad 

Take one can of shrimps or one pint of freshly boiled 
shrimps cut in pieces, sprinkle with the juice of a lemon, 
the juice of an onion, and a saltspoon of pepper, and let them 
stand until chilled. Have ready an aspic jelly ring made of 
one quart of chicken stock well seasoned, one tablespoon of 
lemon juice, a half teaspoon of celery salt, a half saltspoon 
of cayenne pepper, and one box of gelatine. When it is done 
and the gelatine is dissolved in it, strain and add green 
vegetable coloring until the desired color is obtained, then 
pour into a ring jelly mold. When ready turn on white 
lettuce leaves and drain the shrimps, adding to them one 
cup of finely chopped celery and one cup of chopped cucum- 
ber. Toss lightly in mayonnaise dressing and fill the 
center of the ring with the salad, adding a little more mayon- 
naise on top, and garnishing with green pepper strips and 
truffles. This will serve six people. 

FRUIT SALADS 
Peach Salad 

Plunge large, firm, ripe peaches enough to serve one as a 
portion into boiling water; let them stand thus a minute 
until the skin begins to curl; then remove the skin, halve 
and stone the peaches and set them aside to chill. Halve 
and stone a few white grapes ; add to them two tablespoons 
of grated pineapple, a tablespoon of finely chopped pecan 
nut meats, a teaspoon each of chopped angelica and candied 



Salads 349 

cherries. Pour over this mixture a dressing made of three 
quarters of a cup of sweet heavy cream, two tablespoons of 
sugar, a pinch of salt, a tablespoon of tarragon vinegar, a tea 
spoon of lemon juice, and mix all thoroughly. Lay the 
two halves of one peach in deep, curly white lettuce leaves 
and fill each half with the mixture, placing a teaspoon of 
whipped cream on top of each with a half cherry in the 
center. 

Fresh Rhubarb Salad 

Cut in small pieces enough rhubarb to make five cups, 
turn boiling water over it, and let stand ten minutes ; drain, 
add fresh boiling water, boil until tender but not to pieces, 
add three quarters of a cup of sugar, and set away to cool. 
When cold, drain, add half a cup of chopped pecans, half a 
cup of finely-chopped celery. Have ready a boiled dressing 
made and chilled, using for it three tablespoons of flour 
with enough water to make a thin batter, a quarter of a cup 
of vinegar, and three quarters of a cup of water, three 
tablespoons of sugar, one teaspoon of melted butter, the 
yolks of four eggs, the white of one, saltspoon each of dry 
mustard and salt, and half a cup of water. Mix well all 
together and cook in a double boiler until of the right thick- 
ness, stirring constantly. When cold, just before using 
add a little whipped cream, and serve in white lettuce leaves 
garnished with strips of angelica. 

Cantaloupe Salad 

With a teaspoon cut away the inside of the melon and 
lay the little scooped-out pieces on ice, and chill the empty 
shells. Make some cream cheese balls with a few chopped 
nuts, a dash of sugar, and a tablespoon of sherry. When 
ready to serve put the pieces of melon and the cheese balls 
into the empty shells with lettuce cut into ribbons, and 
pour over it a dressing made as for the rhubarb salad. 



3$0 Salads 

Casaba Salad 

Take a casaba melon, now procurable at nearly all fruit 
stands, and cut it in half; scoop out the inside by teaspoons 
and place them on ice to chill. Make some cheese balls, 
adding a few chopped nuts, a dash of sugar, a tablespoon of 
preserved ginger chopped fine, and a tablespoon of sherry. 
When ready to serve fill the empty shells with the chilled 
melon pieces, the cheese balls, and lettuce cut into rib- 
bons ; pour over all a dressing made in the same way as for 
rhubarb salad. 

Prune Salad 

Take half a pound of fancy prunes, wash carefully, and 
let them soak in very warm water for half an hour. Re- 
move the stones, slice in thin slices, and marinate in the 
juice of a lemon, a teaspoon of powdered sugar, and a cordial 
glass of apricot cordial for about one hour. Chop fine four 
salted brazil nuts and one strip of angelica and mix with 
mayonnaise made without mustard. Drain the fruit, 
add to it one cup of finely chopped celery, cut in a heart 
of white lettuce, toss all lightly in the salad dressing. 
Serve on deep lettuce leaves garnished with green cherry 
rings, placing a diamond shaped cheese sandwich on the 
side of each portion. 

Japanese Salad 

This dainty salad is served at an exclusive Japanese club 
of New York, and adds another unusual salad to the already 
long list. Chop two tart apples and add to them one cup of 
chopped celery. Dust all with a saltspoon of pepper and a 
half teaspoon of salt, add six sliced truffles, and a little 
finely chopped red pepper. Fold all in heavy mayonnaise 
and serve in lettuce leaves garnished with slices of preserved 
kumquats. 



Salads 351 

Strawberry and Raspberry 

Arrange as many halved ripe strawberries and ripe 
raspberries as would fill a sauce plate, chill them, and when 
ready to serve arrange in a small deep white cabbage leaf, 
carefully washed and dried, and cover with a dressing made 
of a half cup of sour cream, juice of half a small lemon, a 
few drops of tarragon, half a teaspoon of sugar, a saltspoon 
of salt, and a half saltspoon of pepper. 

Marron and Prune Salad 

Stew in the usual way a pound of large French prunes; 
when cold remove their stones and slip preserved marrons 
into their places, breaking the prune as little as possible. 
Mix the prunes with romaine that has been cut small, and 
just before serving dress the salad with a sour cream dressing 
made of one cup of sour cream, two tablespoons of sugar, 
a tablespoon of tarragon vinegar, and two of cider vinegar. 

Green Almond and Cantaloupe Salad 

Take three cantaloupes and scoop out the pulp with 
a teaspoon; take a cup of green almonds, slice thin or chop 
them and add to the melon; cut one heart of white lettuce 
with scissors and add one-half cup of chopped celery, serve 
in lettuce leaves after tossing in heavy French dressing, 
and garnish with strips of red pepper and olives stuffed 
with almonds. 

Frunut Salad 

Take a jar of "frunut," which is preserved fruits and nuts 
together, drain, and let marinate one hour in a cup of ginger 
syrup, a gill of brandy, a dash of orange bitters, a teaspoon 
mixed of cinnamon, nutmeg, and cloves. Drain thoroughly, 
fold in one pint of whipped cream, and serve in white lettuce 
leaves. 



352 Salads 

Tipsy Salad 

Take a half -jar of " Puncheezy, " put it in a white enamel 
strainer to drain until needed, prepare a grapefruit as for 
salad, and turn a wineglass of apricot brandy over it, with 
a saltspoon of nutmeg and a teaspoon of powdered sugar. 
When ready to dress the salad drain the juice from the 
fruit, mix the grapefruit and Puncheezy, and fill white 
lettuce leaves with the mixture, cover with mayonnaise 
made without mustard, to which some finely chopped 
English walnuts have been added. Serve at once, so that 
the fruit juices may not thin the salad dressing. 

Barberry Salad 

Gather perfect bunches of barberries, wash them carefully, 
remove the pips with a fine needle and let them marinate 
in French dressing for one hour. Remove the segments 
from one large, firm grapefruit, chill, and drain. When 
ready to lay up the salad take the hearts of white lettuce, 
break them up, and scatter over them the grapefruit pulp, 
then place the bunches of barberries on top., and turn over 
all a French dressing. Garnish with strips of red pepper. 

Banana Salad 

Take as many bananas as there are to be portions. Slice 
off lengthwise one strip of the peel and remove the banana 
carefully without breaking the rest of the skin. Dice the 
banana, dice three slices of fresh pineapple, removing the 
hard center, and add a quarter of a cup of chopped pecan 
nuts, a teaspoon of powdered sugar, a saltspoon of red 
pepper, the juice of a lemon, the juice of the heart of the 
pineapple, and a cordial glass of anisette. Let the mixture 
marinate twenty minutes, stirring it with a small wooden 
spatula every few minutes. Drain carefully and mix with 
mayonnaise made without mustard, to which a tablespoon 
of whipped cream is added just before using. Lay the 



Salads 353 

banana boats on lettuce leaves and fill lightly with the 
salad. Garnish with maraschino cherries and lay a cheese 
straw on each plate. 

Grape and Celery Salad 

Mix lightly one cup of finely chopped white celery with 
one large can of peeled Muscat grapes and dress with 
powdered sugar, a dessertspoon of ginger syrup, and a 
tablespoon of apricot cordial. Mix thoroughly, lay on 
white lettuce leaves, and garnish with green maraschino 
cherries. 

Cherry Salad 

Stone enough ox-heart cherries to make two cups, putting 
a hazel nut in each in place of the stone, sprinkle with 
powdered sugar, a grating of nutmeg, and let the mixture 
stand to drain. When ready to serve group each portion 
on a white lettuce leaf, covering it with mayonnaise. Gar- 
nish with strips of angelica. 

Mirabelle and Green Almond Salad 

For the Mirabelle and green almond salad take half a 
bottle of each, cutting the almonds fine, and make a good 
mayonnaise without mustard, using sherry instead of vine- 
gar. Serve the salad in white lettuce leaves, garnished with 
olives stuffed with almonds. 

Fig Salad 

Take one half pound of figs and chop fine with a few 
pecan nuts, a small cup of fine chopped pineapple, and a 
small green pepper; mix with a rich mayonnaise dressing, 
place on white lettuce leaves, and garnish with olives. 

33 



SALAD DRESSINGS AND SAUCES 

There is but one kind of oil for salad dressings to be 
taken into consideration, that is the best, though so-called 
"just as good" kinds may masquerade under several 
names. The French olive oil and the Italian, with walnut 
oil for occasional use, will be found the best, though many 
people regard refined cottonseed oil and peanut oil as fairly 
satisfactory. They are much cheaper, but they cannot 
compare with olive oil for smoothness of texture or rich- 
ness of flavor. If the cook will bind the neck of the oil 
bottle with a strip of blotting paper, renewing when needed, 
the bottle will not grease the shelf upon which it generally 
stands. 

Heavy French Dressing 

A half teaspoon of salt, a quarter teaspoon of pepper, six 
tablespoons of olive oil, two drops of tabasco sauce, a quar- 
ter teaspoon of Worcestershire sauce, four drops onion 
juice, a quarter teaspoon of mustard sauce; beat with an 
egg beater, adding slowly the juice of one lemon. Continue 
beating for ten minutes, then add slowly a tablespoon of 
tarragon vinegar, beat five minutes more, and set away in 
a cold place until ready for use. Just before using stir 
thoroughly with a fork, and if a little thick add another 
tablespoon' of vinegar. 

French Dressing Made with Vegetable or Peanut Oil 

One half cup of peanut oil, a teaspoon of Worcestershire 
sauce, a saltspoon of mixed mustard, a saltspoon of salt, a 

354 



Salad Dressings and Sauces 355 

dash of cayenne pepper, and two tablespoons of vinegar of 
any desired flavor. Beat thoroughly and it is ready for 
use. 

French dressing should be beaten with an egg beater 
during the process of mixing, that it may thoroughly blend; 
then if immediately chilled it will not separate or change 
color. It should always be put away in a wide-mouthed 
bottle kept for the purpose, with a tight clean cork, and be 
shaken thoroughly before being used. 

Plain Mayonnaise 

Break the yolks of two eggs into a cold bowl, add a salt- 
spoon of salt and a half saltspoon of red pepper, and beat 
with a silver fork. Begin to add olive oil drop by drop until 
the mixture begins to thicken; continue dropping the oil 
and when the mixture gets quite thick add, drop by drop, 
strained lemon juice, alternating with the oil, and continue 
beating. This quantity of egg should take up a cup and a 
half of oil and the juice of half a large lemon. When the 
mayonnaise is as stiff as is desired it may be set away to 
chill; and when ready to use, if it seems too heavy, blend 
with it a small quantity of whipped cream. 

Mayonnaise Made with Walnut Oil 

Take the yolks of two fresh eggs, a pinch of salt, a pinch 
of cayenne pepper, beat thoroughly with a fork in a cold 
bowl and add drop by drop walnut oil, adding now and then 
two or three drops of lemon juice ; continue until the dress- 
ing is as thick as desired, which probably would require a cup 
at least of the oil, possibly more. Be sure that all ingredi- 
ents are very cold, which will insure success. If one desires 
a little more flavor than the lemon will impart, a few drops 
of tarragon vinegar may be added. This is made without 
mustard, so that it can be used where the salad is combined 
with fruits. 



356 Salad Dressings and Savices 

Mayonnaise with Mustard 

Proceed in the same way as above, only adding a large 
saltspoon of mustard to the eggs and using olive oil instead 
ofwalnut, and this may be flavored with a little of the shalot 
or garlic vinegar, two or three drops only, or a few drops of 
onion juice. 

Russian Mayonnaise 

Take one large cup of mayonnaise made with mustard and 
add to it enough tomato ketchup to color it a deep pink, a 
teaspoon each of chopped chives, chopped red pepper, one 
finely chopped gherkin, and a teaspoon of onion juice. 

Boiled Mayonnaise 

Cream together three tablespoons of flour and two table- 
spoons of olive oil. Add one cup of boiling water to one 
quarter cup of vinegar, pour slowly over the flour and oil, 
add a half teaspoon of salt and a half saltspoon of pepper. 
Let the sauce slowly come to boiling point and thicken. Re- 
move from the fire and beat in three egg yolks. Mix thor- 
oughly, then, with an egg beater, beat in three quarters of a 
cup of olive oil, a teaspoon at a time; and then more rapidly 
as the sauce begins to thicken. When all is thoroughly 
beaten set away to chill. 

Mayonnaise Made without Oil 

Beat two eggs with four tablespoons of vinegar, add a 
dessertspoon of butter, a saltspoon of pepper, a half teaspoon 
of salt, a saltspoon of mustard, and the same amount of 
paprika and a dessertspoon of sugar. Cook in a double 
boiler until the dressing is smooth, but do not cook long 
enough to curdle it. When done set away to chill. 

What is known as "white mayonnaise" has gained much 
popularity because of its delicacy of flavor and its adapt- 



Salad Dressings and Savices 357 

ability to various fruit salads. To make this, stiffly whipped 
cream is added to mayonnaise until the desired lightness of 
color and texture is gained. 

Should mayonnaise made the day before separate or 
crack it may be brought back to the right consistency by 
beating a fresh egg yolk and adding the mayonnaise to it a 
teaspoon at a time. This is like re-making it, but it is the 
only way it can be made usable. 

For jellying mayonnaise in which chicken or other meat 
is to be molded allow four teaspoons of gelatine powder, 
softened in a little cold water then dissolved in four table- 
spoons of boiling water, to two cups of the plain mayon- 
naise. 

Boiled Dressing 

One tablespoon of dry mustard, two of sugar, saltspoon of 
salt, half saltspoon of pepper, lump of butter the size of an 
egg, one egg, and half a cup of vinegar; mix and blend; then 
boil, stirring constantly until the right consistency, and pour 
over the cabbage slaw. 

Dressing for Fruit Salad 

Take three tablespoons of flour, enough water to make 
a thin batter, a quarter cup of vinegar, filled up with water ; 
one cup of water, three tablespoons of sugar, one teaspoon 
butter, yolks of four eggs and white of one, a saltspoon of 
dry mustard, and a saltspoon of salt. Mix together and 
cook in double boiler until thick, stirring all the time. Chill 
the dressing, and just before time to serve the salad add a 
little whipped cream. 

Sweet Cream Dressing 

One cup of sweet cream, a teaspoon of salt, a tablespoon 
of sugar, three drops of tabasco sauce, two tablespoons of 
tarragon vinegar; stir thoroughly until all is blended, chill, 
and serve with any combination vegetable salad. Sour 



35^ Salad Dressings and Sa\jices 

cream may be used in place of the sweet cream if more 
convenient. 

The sour or sweet cream dressings made with a cup of 
cream, two tablespoons of sugar, and the juice of a lemon 
will be much improved by the juice of half a lemon and a 
tablespoon of any of the seasoned vinegars, especially the 
shalot vinegar. 

Thousand Island Dressing 

Chop fine one onion, two small cold boiled beets, one hard- 
boiled egg, and mix with four tablespoons of thin mayon- 
naise and a tablespoon of chili sauce; mix thoroughly and 
add three tablespoons of cream. Select the brand of chili 
sauce with the finest ingredients; if they seem too coarse, 
mash them through a fine sieve. This dressing will be 
found excellent with white lettuce and cucumbers. 

Prussian Sauce 

Take four tablespoons of horseradish, two tablespoons of 
bread crumbs that have been fried in butter and drained, 
a saltspoon of salt, a half saltspoon of pepper, a tablespoon 
of sugar, a teaspoon of onion juice, a teaspoon of finely 
chopped parsley, and a cup of sour cream. Beat thoroughly 
with a fork and serve with potato or cabbage salad. 

Sauce Piquant 

This is a good sauce to use with any cold fish salad. A 
half cup of tomato ketchup, a teaspoon of Worcestershire 
sauce, a teaspoon of mushroom ketchup, the juice of an 
onion, a half teaspoon of hot southern sauce, a tablespoon of 
chutney syrup; blend thoroughly and add a tablespoon 
of tarragon vinegar. 

Sauce Mandalay 

To a good French dressing add one tablespoon of Manda- 
lay sauce, a teaspoon of chopped olives, juice of a small 
onion, and a teaspoon of finely chopped chives. 



Salad Dressings and Sauces 359 

Ambrosia Sauce 

This sauce is to use with a fruit salad consisting of white 
grapes, oranges, bananas, grapefruit, and a Httle diced 
pineapple. Take the juice of one lemon, the juice of half 
an orange, and half a cup of grated pineapple. Stir to- 
gether and add three quarters of a cup of strained honey- 
that is warm enough to blend thoroughly; add a teaspoon 
of ginger syrup, and after the fruit has been chilled and 
drained pour over the sauce and heap a little whipped 
cream on top. 

Mustard Sauce 

Chop a half green pepper and a quarter of a small cucum- 
ber fine, after removing seeds, add to a half cup of mustard 
dressing, and after mixing add a quarter cup of thin French 
dressing. 

Sauce Violette 

To a half cup of French dressing add a teaspoon of mou- 
tarde violette de brive and mix well before using. 

French Mustard Sauce 

If one desires to make French mustard to add to dressing 
this is a good recipe for it : Take a tablespoon of whole mixed 
spices and three lumps of sugar, let come to a boil in a pint 
of vinegar. Take four tablespoons of dry mustard and mix 
to a stiff paste with a Uttle vinegar. Let the spiced vinegar 
boil five minutes, strain, and turn slowly into the mustard, 
beating it with a red-hot iron beater. This is needed for the 
smoothness, and if it is properly mixed will keep, well 
corked, for months. Put it into wide-mouthed bottles and 
cork. 



360 Salad Dressings and Savices 

English Mustard 

The sharp English mustard one makes at home as it is 
needed, and this is a good recipe to follow: One tablespoon 
of dry mustard, a teaspoon of flour, mix with a tablespoon 
of water and a few drops of vinegar to the right consistency ; 
cover closely, and this mustard will not dry out as quickly 
as when made with all vinegar and no flour. 



DAIRY PRODUCTS 
Eggs 

There is but one sort of egg permissible in first-class 
cookery — the strictly fresh egg ; and as this is the egg which 
is most expensive, we have every right to demand perfec- 
tion, even to the extent of having each egg stamped with its 
date. So-called state eggs, or case eggs, are often very 
good and quite fresh enough for ordinary cookery, but, for 
the finest of egg dishes, where the flavor of the egg counts, 
the egg from one day to a week old is the only one to 
use. 

There are a number of methods of keeping eggs fresh. 
One is to smear the shells with sweet oil, then to pack the 
eggs away in sawdust so that they do not touch one another. 
Another way is to pack the eggs in a deep bowl, cover 
them with lime water, and put the bowl in a cool place. 

There is hardly a housekeeper who does not realize the 
value of egg dishes in an emergency and also for breakfast 
and luncheon dishes. Eggs are always in the house and 
are the least perishable of made-dish commodities. 

There are a number of tests for fresh eggs ; one is to hold 
the egg in the right hand against a strong light ; if the yolk 
appears round and plump in the center, and the white 
clear, it is safe to judge that the egg is fresh. Again, the 
egg may be dropped into a bowl of water and if it is per- 
fectly fresh it will sink and rest upon its side; if it floats it 
is very stale. Boiling an egg is a test of freshness also. 

361 



362 Dairy Products 

Boiled, fried, and scrambled the egg seems to be best 
known to all nations. The cooking is varied, however, by 
a number of odd disguising sauces as the following recipes 
show. In the hottest climates the eggs are most highly- 
seasoned and the dishes most complicated, while the cooler 
the countries the simpler and less highly seasoned dishes 
are served by the best cooks. 

Poached eggs, instead of being done the old-fashioned 
way in water, may be poached in strained honey which gives 
them a peculiarly attractive flavor. They are sHpped as 
usual onto buttered toast squares, dusted lightly with 
pepper and salt, and topped by a tablespoon of whipped 
cream. 

In boiling eggs the water should be boiling gently when 
the eggs are put in with a spoon and the spoon not with- 
drawn until the egg rests upon the bottom of the saucepan. 
The proper time for boihng is from three to four minutes, 
according to the way the egg is liked. For hard-boiled eggs 
six to seven minutes will be found the proper time. If the 
eggs are large, Hke those of the black Spanish fowls, allow 
them an extra half minute in cooking. 

Duck's eggs are usually so strongly flavored that plain 
boiled they are seldom eaten. They are not bad, however, 
for cooking, as they are quite rich and one duck's egg will 
go as far as two hen's eggs. 

Poached Egg with Cream Sauce 

Have ready heated before poaching the egg in boiling 
water, a half gill of cream that has a saltspoon of salt, a half 
saltspoon of pepper, a small piece of butter, and a saltspoon 
of sugar in it. Add to the boiling water in which the egg 
is to be poached two tablespoons of vinegar and a pinch of 
salt. This will firm the eggs and prepare them for the 
sauce. When the egg is poached remove with a slicer and 
slip onto a toast round, pour the hot cream sauce over the 
egg, and serve at once. 



Dairy Prodvicts 363 

Tomato Eggs 

Boil six eggs hard and cut them in halves. Boil, skin, and 
dice one small canned tongue. Make a good savory 
tomato sauce by using one can of tomatoes, one bay leaf, 
three cloves, a diced carrot, one onion, a shalot, and a 
small bunch of parsley chopped fine. Boil for half an hour, 
strain, thicken with a little butter and flour rubbed to a 
paste, add pepper and salt to taste and a saltspoon of sugar. 
Put in the egg halves and the diced tongue and allow them 
to heat through. Turn into a covered dish, sprinkle a little 
parmesan cheese over the top, and send to table. 

Baked Eggs 

Boil eight eggs hard. When cold cut lengthwise, remove 
the yolks and make a paste of them with a tablespoon of 
butter, a saltspoon each of pepper and salt, a small grated 
onion, and enough cream to make a medium paste. Fill the 
egg whites with the mixture and tie them together with tiny 
strips of kitchen tape. Roll them in grated cheese and fine 
bread crumbs that have a dash of sugar and pepper with 
them, then lay them in a well buttered baking dish. As they 
cook baste with a little melted butter and cream ; bake a deli- 
cate brown. Serve in a napkin garnished with parsley, and 
add to the little dish gravy a half cup of whipped cream; 
this sauce is served in a small tureen with the eggs. 

Eggs Mignon 

Slice two onions very thin; drain twelve button mush- 
rooms, cut them in half, and saute them with the onions in 
butter. Boil six eggs hard, when done cut them in half 
and remove the yolks. Slice the whites in rings. Have 
ready a half pint of good brown gravy, add to it the onion 
and mushrooms and the egg rings. When all is hot drop in 
the half yolks and allow them to heat one minute. Turn 
into a hot covered dish and serve. This is sufficient for four 
persons. 



364 Dairy Prodvicts 

Scrambled Eggs and Sardines 

Open a box of sardines, drain them well and remove all 
skin and bone ; flake them fairly small ; there should be two 
heaping tablespoons of the fish. Beat four eggs, season with 
pepper and salt, and add a tablespoon of milk to them. 
Melt a half ounce of butter in a steel frying pan, stir in the 
fish, then turn in the eggs and beat all lightly with a silver 
fork. When scrambled and done so that the pan is left 
clean, heap on a hot platter, garnishing with crisp, fresh 
cress. 

Shirred Eggs with Ham 

Take one cup of finely chopped cold boiled ham and add 
to it one teaspoon of French mustard, two of Worcester- 
shire sauce, a tablespoon of ketchup, a quarter saltspoon of 
red pepper, and a little melted butter. Divide the portion 
into six well buttered egg dishes. Break two eggs into each 
dish, dust with pepper and salt, and bake three to five min- 
utes, according to the oven. 

Eggs with Grayfish 

Boil six eggs hard, shell and cut them in halves length- 
wise. Remove the yolks and mash them to a paste, adding 
a tablespoon of melted butter, a teaspoon each of Worces- 
tershire and horseradish. Take a third of a can of grayfish, 
bone and flake it, then work it into the egg paste. When 
thoroughly mixed fill the egg whites and tie the eggs to- 
gether with kitchen tape. Put the eggs in a buttered 
casserole, cover with a pint of good gravy, and bake in a 
moderate oven for one hour. 

Scotch Woodcock 

Make a white sauce of one tablespoon each of butter and 
flour, blended with a cup of cold milk and a pinch of salt. 
When smooth, add six hard-boiled eggs chopped fine, a dash 



Dairy Products 365 

of pepper, two tablespoons of bread crumbs that have been 
fried in butter, and a tablespoon of finely grated cheese ; 
mix well and serve on slices of hot buttered toast. 

Eggs au Miroir 

Butter a baking dish thickly with good fresh butter and 
melt it. Break four eggs into it as though for poaching; 
dust them, lightly with pe'pper and salt and dot the tops 
with little pieces of butter. Put the dish on a hot plate 
in the oven and let it remain long enough to set the whites 
of the eggs. Serve at once in the same dish. 

Vermicelli Eggs 

Boil eight eggs hard. Shell and cut lengthways, remov- 
ing the yolks. Make a good cream sauce, not too thick, and 
drop the whites into it long enough to heat. Turn all over 
buttered toast on a hot platter and put the yolks through a 
ricer over the top. 

American Eggs 

Needless to say the open-eyed fried egg served with 
broiled or fried ham is the favorite egg, and finds its way 
to all of the best hotel and restaurant menus. 

Chinese Eggs 

Cut six three-inch pieces of toast, butter lightly. Slice 
lean bacon very thin, broil a minute on each side, cut in two, 
and place on the toast. Break into a small hot pan with a 
half gill of melted butter six eggs, sprinkle each with a tea- 
spoon of finely grated cooked ham, a pinch of salt and the 
same of pepper; cook two minutes, then set in the oven one 
minute, place each egg on the toast. Brown one ounce of 
butter, add to it one teaspoon of vinegar, a saltspoon of 
curry powder, boil up once and pour over the eggs. 



366 Dairy Prodxicts 

French Eggs 

Boil six eggs hard, strip off the shells, and cut in quarters. 
Arrange on a dish, and make the following sauce: One large 
tablespoon of butter, a tablespoon of flour, and stir over the 
fire until it thickens; pour in slowly a pint of rich milk, 
boil it, adding another tablespoon of butter and the season- 
ing and a teaspoon of minced parsley, boil five minutes, add 
the juice of half a lemon. Pour over the sauce and garnish 
with parsley. 

German Eggs 

Wash and boil two quarts of spinach, chop fine, and drain, 
then mix with a rich cream sauce, mold so that the top may 
be covered with poached eggs covered with a little grated 
cheese, put in hot oven a minute to melt, then serve. 

Hungarian Eggs 

Arrange hard-boiled eggs and cold boiled potatoes sliced 
in thick slices in alternate layers, season with butter, a 
saltspoon each of pepper and salt, and pour over the top 
enough sour cream to cover the ingredients and bake a 
delicate brown. 

Irish Eggs 

Place on delicately broiled slices of bacon poached eggs 
and cover them with a rich cream sauce. Garnish with 
toast sippets. 

Italian Eggs 

Make as many little molds of rice as there are guests at 
table, lay a poached egg on the top of each, and pour over 
them a sauce of tomatoes to which a pinch of saffron has 
been added and three finely minced anchovies; season with 
paprika and garnish with truffles. 



Dairy Prodvicts 367 

Norwegian Eggs 

Place on a platter large flakes of hot smoked salmon, 
scramble six eggs in butter, season and spread over the fish, 
and serve hot. 

Russian Eggs 

On delicate slices of toast spread a layer of caviar, place a 
fresh poached egg on top, season with a quarter saltspoon of 
pepper, a pinch of salt and a few drops of lemon juice; 
garnish with parsley and serve. 

Scotch Eggs 

Boil six eggs hard, for about seven minutes; when done 
strip from the shells, roll them in a good forcemeat mixture, 
and fry in very hot lard ; drain and lay on the platter with a 
pint of good brown gravy poured over them. 

Turkish Eggs 

Boil six kidneys and six chicken livers and hearts with an 
onion and a spice bag, throwing off the water four times. 
Make a brown sauce, pour on a hot platter with as many 
poached eggs on top as there are portions to be served. 
Garnish with parsley. 

Eggs Nicoise 

Take two hard-boiled eggs, one fresh tomato, some freshly 
boiled cold string beans, lettuce leaves, and anchovies. 
Arrange the lettuce on a small plate, cut each egg into five 
slices, and arrange on the lettuce, then decorate with 
anchovies; place the string beans on one side, the tomato, 
cut in quarters, on the other. Make a vinaigrette sauce of 
shalots, fine herbs, a half teaspoon of French mustard, one 
teaspoon of chili sauce, the yolk of a hard-boiled esg, salt. 



368 Dairy Products 

pepper, vinegar, and oil to taste. Mix thoroughly, strain 
through a fine sieve, and pour over the eggs. 

OMELET RECIPES 
Plain Omelet 

A four-egg omelet is sufficient for three people. 

Break four eggs into a bowl and beat them with a fork so 
as to thoroughly mix the whites and yolks. Add three 
tablespoons of warm water, a half saltspoon of pepper, and 
a half saltspoon of salt. Place in the omelet pan a round- 
ing tablespoon of butter and when hot turn in the omelet. 
Shake the pan continuously, raising the edges of the omelet 
with a limber knife to allow the thin part to run under- 
neath. When the omelet is set turn or fold it, have ready 
heated the omelet plate, and turn the omelet onto it. 
Garnish with parsley and send at once to table. 

Spanish Omelet 

For lovers of Spanish omelet there is a new bottled filling 
which saves time and trouble in the preparation of the 
vegetables. Make a five-egg omelet, using four tablespoons 
of the filling, which may be put in a tiny saucepan with a 
quarter cup of melted butter, a tablespoon of ketchup, and 
three drops of hot southern sauce to heat. Pour in the 
center and fold the omelet as usual; garnish with olive 
rings and strips of red pepper. 

Rarebit Omelet 

This appetizing dish may be served for breakfast, lunch- 
eon, or supper in the place of meat. It is a combination 
of cheese and eggs and yet is entirely different from the 
ordinary cheese omelet. Beat the required number of 
eggs until very light, as for an omelet, and add almost the 
same quantity of grated American cheese. Season the 
mixture to taste with salt, celery salt, and black pepper; 



Dairy Products 369 

add one tablespoon of cream and pour it into a heated 
omelet pan in which has been heated a tablespoon of 
butter. Do not stir the mixture, but let it cook like an 
omelet, and just before turning over sprinkle with a little 
chopped parsley. Brown delicately and serve immedi- 
ately on a heated platter. 

Newburg Omelet 

Parboil, trim, and dice one pair of sweetbreads; make a 
Newburg sauce, slice thin four truffles and put them in the 
sauce with the sweetbreads; add a teaspoon of onion juice 
and wipe the inside of the omelet pan with a half bud of 
garlic before putting in the tablespoon of butter to melt. 
Beat eight eggs, adding a teaspoon of salt, a saltspoon of 
white pepper, one half gill of cream, half a saltspoon of 
cayenne. Have omelet pan hot, turn in the eggs, make the 
omelet as usual, and when it is set add the Newburg, first 
draining off the extra sauce. Fold it over, turn onto a 
hot plate, garnish with toast sippets and sprays of fresh 
cress. Serve the remainder of the Newburg sauce very 
hot in small tureen; if it is too thick thin it slightly with a 
little hot cream. This is a very delicious luncheon dish. 

Hessian Omelet 

One hard-boiled egg, four olives, one pepper, a few sprays 
of chives. Chop all together, add a teaspoon of Worcester- 
shire sauce, a tablespoon of ketchup, a teaspoon of onion 
juice, a tablespoon of apple sauce, a dash of red pepper, and 
three quarters of a cup of finely chopped cold boiled ham. 
Mix thoroughly, put in small saucepan to heat in a heaping 
tablespoon of butter; when hot and ready to turn into the 
omelet add two tablespoons of whipped cream. Make 
a six-egg omelet, turn the mixture in before folding and 
serve on hot plate garnished with sprays of parsley and 
lemon quarters. 
24 



370 Dairy Prodxicts 

Lobster Omelet 

Take one cup of cold boiled lobster cut in small pieces 
and cook until thickened slightly with half a cup of milk 
and a gill of cream, a dash of red pepper and a saltspoon 
of salt and one beaten egg. Have ready the omelet pan 
in which there is a tablespoon of melted butter, turn in six 
well-beaten eggs, cook them the usual way, turn the lobster 
in the center, and fold over the edges. When done turn onto 
a hot omelet plate and garnish with slices of lemon dipped 
into finely chopped parsley. 

Onion Omelet 

Put a tablespoon of butter or fine drippings into a frying 
pan and add four sliced onions, dust with salt, pepper, and a 
teaspoon of sugar, cook until done, then add two beaten 
eggs for each person at table. Beat thoroughly, then make 
the omelet in the usual way. Turn and serve hot garnished 
with parsley. 

Ripe Olive Omelet 

Drain one small bottle of ripe olives, add to them the 
whites of two cold boiled eggs diced and a tablespoon 
of chutney syrup. Make a five-egg omelet, have the olive 
mixture warmed in a tiny saucepan, but not cooked, turn 
into the omelet and fold as usual. Turn on a hot dish, 
and garnish with a few sprays of carefully washed fresh 
mint dusted with powdered sugar. 

Omelet with Cheese 

Make the omelet in the usual way and have ready, just 
before it is turned, the whites of two eggs stiffly beaten, 
and a quarter of a cup of grated cheese and a saltspoon each 
of pepper and salt beaten with them. Spread the filhng on 
the omelet, then fold it, and while it is browning on either 



Dairy Products 371 

side the cheese will cook sufficiently. Serve garnished with 
toast sippets and parsley. 

Bachelor's Omelet 

Make a thin cream of a teaspoon of flour and a half tea- 
cup of milk. Beat three eggs and mix them with the cream, 
adding a pinch of salt and a half saltspoon of pepper. Melt 
two ounces of butter in a small frying pan and when it is 
hot turn in the mixture; when the omelet begins to set, 
sprinkle over it some finely chopped herbs and a little 
chopped onion that has been sauted in a little butter. Fold 
the omelet in the usual way and serve it on a hot dish 
garnished with a few sprays of parsley. 

SWEET OMELETS 

Omelet Souffle 

Separate the whites from the yolks of six eggs, add to the 
yolks five tablespoons of sugar, one dessertspoon of rice 
flour, flavoring of vanilla, and stir the ingredients together. 
Put three ounces of butter in a small frying pan and whip the 
whites very light and mix with the batter. As soon as the 
butter begins to bubble pour in the batter and set it over a 
gentle fire. When the omelette is set turn over the edges 
so as to make it oval shape, and slip it on a well buttered 
silvered dish. Put it into the oven and bake eight min- 
utes; sprinkle with powdered sugar, and serve quickly. 

A Fruit Omelet 

Separate six eggs and beat very light, add a half teaspoon 
of salt and three tablespoons of milk. Put into the pan one 
tablespoon of butter and when hot pour in the omelet. 
Shake on the hottest part of the stove and when it begins 
to thicken set it on the grate of the oven to set. Remove 
and add a small cup of shredded pineapple that has been 



372 Dairy Prodvicts 

dusted with sugar, and a teaspoon of sherry. Fold the 
omelet and serve on a hot plate. 

Omelet au Flame 

Beat six eggs very light with a silver fork, add a pinch 
of salt and two pinches of sugar, fry the omelet in the 
usual way, but before folding it spread it with three table- 
spoons of apricot jam. Fold it and dry in the oven, then 
pour over it a gill of Jamaica rum. Set it on fire and 
serve the omelet burning. 

Banana Omelet 

Add to eight eggs half a gill of cream, a teaspoon of salt, 
and two saltspoons of white pepper. Beat with a fork for 
two minutes. Fry two peeled and sliced bananas in melted 
butter for five minutes, toss the pan frequently while the 
bananas are frying, and then turn in the eggs. Beat 
them for two minutes, then let them rest half a minute, 
fold up the sides, let the omelet stand for a minute, then 
turn onto a hot dish. 

Orange Omelet 

Add three tablespoons of orange juice and two tablespoons 
of sugar to three well beaten eggs, fry the omelet in the 
usual way, and place in the center before folding one thinly 
sliced orange dusted with sugar. When ready to serve 
garnish the top with orange quarters dipped in sugar. 

Strawberry Omelet 

Wash and hull one pint of very ripe strawberries, cut them 
in half and sprinkle with half a cup of powdered sugar, two 
tablespoons of water, and half a teaspoon of vanilla; mix 
thoroughly and let stand fifteen minutes. Break eight 
fresh eggs into a bowl, add two saltspoons of salt, two 



Dairy Prodvicts 373 

tablespoons of sugar, and half a gill of cream. Beat briskly 
for two minutes. Have half an ounce of butter melted in 
the omelet pan, turn the eggs into it, beat them with a fork 
for about two minutes, then let them rest half a minute. 
Turn one fourth of the berries into the center of the omelet, 
fold up the two opposite sides to join the center, let it 
stand for just half a minute, and then turn out on a hot 
dish. Mash the remainder of the berries through a sieve 
over the top of the omelet, sprinkle lightly with a little 
powdered sugar, and serve. 

Rhubarb Omelet 

Take one cup of stewed fresh rhubarb (drained) and 
add to it one tablespoon of preserved ginger syrup. See 
that the rhubarb has not been stewed to pieces, but left in 
fairly firm cubes. Make a six-egg omelet, drain the mix- 
ture again and add it before folding the omelet; serve on a 
hot platter, dust with powdered sugar, and garnish with 
cheese toast sippets. 

MILK 

Owing to effective work done by Health Boards through- 
out the country the purity of milk offered for sale has 
become fairly satisfactory. The cleanliness insisted upon 
in the care of the cattle, in their housing and health, the 
strict supervision in modifying, pasteurizing the milk, and 
packing it in perfect containers to reach its destination as 
quickly as possible, has made itself felt in the lessening of 
infant mortality. The healthful effects following the use of 
buttermilk, which is the residue after churning, has given 
rise to the new bottled fermented drinks, of which koumys 
and fermillac are members, all being comprehended under 
the Bulgarian group (milk soured with the Bulgarian 
bacillus) . 

Milk should be swallowed very slowly. Wnen swallowed 
rapidly it is very hard of digestion. 



374 Dairy Prodvicts 

Milk should be served cool but never iced. 

To scald milk put it into a double boiler and when it is 
warm enough to steam slightly when a spoon is put into it, 
it is sufficiently hot. Never allow it to boil. 

^o sterilize milk pour it into clean bottles, stop them 
with soft cotton corks, place them in a sterilizer, or steamer, 
and steam them continuously for an hour and a half. 

Cream 

Cream twenty-four hours old will whip much better and 
more quickly than new cream. As soon as the cream is 
whipped place it in an enamel strainer over an enamel bowl 
so that it may drain while it chills. 

Devonshire Cream 

In cool weather let the milk stand twenty-four hours 
or half that time in warm weather in the milk pan. Then 
set the pan on the stove and let it remain until the milk 
is quite hot but it must not boil. When it is done suffi- 
ciently the undulations on the surface will look thick and 
small rings appear. The time for scalding cream depends 
on the size of the pan and the heat of the fire, but the slower 
it is done the better. The pan should be placed in the dairy 
when the cream is sufficiently scalded, and skimmed the 
following day. This cream is excellent on fresh fruit, and 
in Devonshire, England, butter is made from it. 

Devonshire Junket 

Heat blood warm one quart of milk ; add to it one dessert- 
spoon of sugar and two of Shinn's liquid rennet. Pour out 
into a deep dish with two tablespoons of brandy, cover and 
put in a cool place to set. Then spread over the top a thick 
cream, a grating of nutmeg, a little powdered sugar, and 
serve. 



Dairy Prodvicts 375 

BUTTER 

Butter for general table use is the salt creamy butter 
and the so-called sweet butter (unsalted) ; besides these there 
are the various nut and fancy butters which are used for 
special occasions. 

In choosing fresh butter it should smell deliciously and 
be of an equal color all through ; if it smells sour it has not 
been sufficiently washed to free it from the buttermilk, and 
if it is veiny and crumbly it has probably been worked with 
an inferior or stale sort of butter. 

Where butter is purchased a large tub at a time the first 
thing to do is to turn it out, scrape the outside of the butter 
with a knife, wipe the inside of the tub with a clean cloth and 
sprinkle all around with salt ; put back the butter, cover with 
a salted cloth, and put on the lid to exclude the air. If the 
butter proves too salt when it is taken from the tub a small 
portion at a time it should be carefully washed with clean 
water. 

One word of caution is necessary regarding rancid butter. 
All people realize that it is not fit to use on bread, yet are 
tempted to use it in cooking, where the unpleasant acidity 
can be more or less disguised. This is a great mistake as it 
is quite poisonous in its nature, and never under any circum- 
stances should one be tempted to use butter that is turning. 
In fact, the more you can do without the use of butter that 
has been subjected to the influence of heat the better. 
Porcelain butter churns are very handy for small famil}?- 
use, and by saving all the sour milk and cream during the 
week one may have quite a nice pat of fresh butter for 
Sunday use, and also some real buttermilk to drink. 

Fairy Butter 

Take the yolks of two hard-boiled eggs and beat them 
smooth to a paste with one tablespoon of orange flower water 
and two tablespoons of powdered sugar. When thoroughly 
smooth add them to one quarter pound of fresh butter and 



37^ Dairy Prodxicts 

work all into a smooth paste; when blended, put into a 
strong cheesecloth square that has been wrung out of ice 
water and squeeze the butter through it onto a cold plate. 
As the butter is forced through the meshes of the cloth it will 
come out in odd-shaped pieces, and it is very dainty to serve 
in this way with fresh hot bisciiit or bread. 

CHEESE 

Cheese usually agrees or decidedly disagrees with people 
at once, which decides the question for each individual 
case whether or not it shall have a place in the daily menu. 
However, there may be "extenuating circumstances," 
and a cooked cheese dish may often be enjoyed by a person 
when the stomach has rejected it in its natural state. Milk 
and cheese taken at the same meal have been known to 
bring on the most violent case of indigestion. Sometimes 
cheese taken with wine or liquor has been known to have 
the same effect. While it is acceptable to nearly all diners 
at the end of the meal, those of sedentary habits should be 
wary of over-indulgence in quantity. 

The very best way to cut soft or crumbly cheese is with a 
stout white linen thread, as this cuts perfectly without the 
least bit of waste. The more crumbly a cheese is the more 
easily it is digested. 

If buying a considerable quantity of cheese first test a 
little piece by melting it in a little milk in a double boiler. 
If it assumes a granulated appearance it is the right sort to 
buy. But if it gets tough and stringy it lacks nutriment 
and will be indigestible. To keep cheese moist that is in 
daily use, wrap it in a moist cloth, then cover and set away 
in a cool place. 

To ripen an Edam cheese run the cheese tryer through a 
fresh one and fill the opening with good brandy. Let it 
stand for three weeks, and the flavor will be greatly im- 
proved. 

Cheeses may be kept in a perfect state for a long time 



Dairy Prodvicts 377 

by smearing them over with a coating of melted suet, or by 
covering them with parchment that has been made pHable 
by soaking in water. 

For grating the dairy cheeses will be found the best. 
They have the richest flavor for cooking. 

A piece of fresh Parmesan cheese grated at home is far 
better in flavor and stronger than that purchased in the 
bottles ready grated. 

Parmesan cheese is made in Italy and of the skimmed 
cow's milk, and none is offered at market before it is six 
months old. The high flavor of it is due to the rich herb- 
age of the meadows where the cows are pastured. English 
Stilton cheese is often called the British Parmesan and is 
considered the finest of table cheeses. 

If a large quantity of cheese is purchased at once, part 
may be covered with thickly buttered white paper to keep 
it. Smaller pieces may be wrapped in a damp cloth. 
Cheese keeps best in a damp, cool place covered from the 
air. It may also be covered with cloths wet with good 
brandy, which adds richness to the flavor as well as keeping 
it soft and moist. 

To Make Cream Cheese 

Cream cheese dishes have grown to be so popular an 
addition to the daily menu that cooks are experimenting in 
novel ways of serving it. 

Some people in making the home-made cream cheese use 
the sour cream, turning it into a cheesecloth bag and letting 
it drain over night, then removing it and adding seasoning 
and packing it in a mold until needed, then turning it out 
and eating it with fresh cream. But the English way of 
making it is to take three pints of heavy rich cream and 
turn it into a cheese bag that has been wet with cold wa,ter 
and hang it for seven or eight days in a cool place; then 
change it to a fresh bag for a day and then into a mold, 
pressing a weight on it for two days ; then it is ready for use 
and cuts like butter. 



37^ Dairy Prodtacts 

Bohemian Pot Cheese 

Take one quart of sweet milk and one quart of sour milk, 
turn them both into a basin and set the basin into a larger 
container filled with hot water, being sure that none of the 
water gets into the milk. Push it to the back of the stove 
where it will remain at an even temperature, below boiling 
point. The milk must not boil. When the curd is set, 
drain off the milk, break it up finely with a fork, and pack it 
into little basket openwork molds ; then set it aside to cool. 
When cold, serve the cheese with any good jam, or with salt 
and fresh cream. 

Cream Cheese Piquant 

Season and soften one package of cream cheese with a 
tablespoon of catsup, a teaspoon of onion juice, a teaspoon 
of Worcestershire sauce, a saltspoon of sugar, a dessert- 
spoon of pate-de-fois-gras, three olives, and the heart of a 
stalk of celery chopped fine. Roll into a good-sized cylinder, 
chill, and serve in slices. 

Cream Cheese and Chestnut Puree 

Season as desired a large package of cream cheese and 
add enough sweet cream to make a stiff but pliable paste. 
Roll out to half an inch thickness and cut into rounds or 
fancy shapes. Each portion consists of one round served 
with a dessertspoon of the marron puree which comes 
bottled. 

Cheese Straws 

The ever popular cheese straws are made in the following 
way: 

Two ounces of butter, two ounces of flour, two ounces of 
breadcrumbs, two ounces of grated cheese, a saltspoon each 
of salt and pepper. Cream all together, roll fairly thin, cut in 
finger strips, and bake on white writing paper in a fair oven. 



Dairy Products 379 

There is another way of making them that is also good, 
and that is with puff paste rolled thin and the grated cheese 
sprinkled over it, seasoned with salt and pepper. Fold the 
crust three times and then roll it and cut in convenient 
lengths. Bake a delicate brown. When cold pile log cabin 
fashion on a napkin to serve. 

Welsh Rarebit 

The following is one of the best known recipes for Welsh 
rarebit now in use : ' 

Shave into thin strips or shces two cups of rich dairy- 
cheese. Put into a saucepan with enough ale or beer to 
moisten but not to make it too thin when it is melted. Add 
a small lump of butter and stir continuously one way until 
perfectly melted. Then add a saltspoon each of salt and 
pepper and a teaspoon of English mustard. When all is 
melted take from the fire, and add an egg well beaten, stir 
carefully, then turn the mixture over buttered toast on hot 
plates and serve. 

Camembert Toast 

If you wish to serve Camembert cheese in a novel form, 
prepare it once in the form of Camembert toast and you will 
be sure to repeat the experiment. Remove the crust from a 
ripe Camembert cheese and spread it quite thickly over 
slices of brown bread. Dust the top with a little salt and 
a liberal amount of pepper and place the toast under the 
broiler of the gas range. Serve as soon as the top has the 
appearance of a rich brown crust. 

Cheese in Ramekins 

Stew for five minutes a can of French peas, drain, and 
mash through a sieve. Add butter, pepper, a dash of sugar, 
a half a cup of fine crumbs, and a half a cup of grated cheese, 



380 Dairy Prodxicts 

add two lightly beaten eggs, and pour the mixture into 
buttered ramekins. Bake till a delicate brown and serve 
hot with a simple salad of romaine and Boston lettuce 
cut in ribbons and a tablespoon of minced tarragon leaves, 
using French dressing made of walnut oil instead of olive oil . 
Garnish with red pepper rings. 

Cheese Strudel 

Roll a good puff paste very thin, spread lightly with 
smooth apple sauce, and sprinkle with grated cheese, a 
dusting of pepper and salt. Roll up, cut into three-inch 
lengths and bake till a delicate brown. Serve either hot or 
cold. Pinch the ends of each little roll before baking. 

Brazilians 

Blanch and chop fine six Brazil nuts, add them with a 
tablespoon of strawberry jam, a teaspoon of chopped celery, 
a dash of paprika, salt, and enough sweet cream to make a 
spreading paste to a package of cream cheese. Add enough 
cream so that the paste is thin enough not to break the 
bread while laying up the sandwiches. Cut rye bread very 
thin and cut the sandwiches into small rounds. These 
are dainty for afternoon tea. 

Cheese Pufflets 

Three ounces of grated cheese, one tablespoon of flour, 
one egg, saltspoon each of salt and pepper, and a cup of 
milk ; bake ten minutes in popover tins. These are good to 
serve with a chop or piece of breaded cutlet. 

Tutti Frutti Cheese 

This is to serve with a fruit salad. Use one cream cheese, 
soften with a teaspoon of preserved ginger syrup, a teaspoon 
of sherry, and a little sweet cream. Chop fine one maras- 



Dairy Prodvicts 381 

schino fig, six cherries, one marron glace, a strip of candied 
lemon peel, and three dry macaroons rolled fine. Form 
into a smooth paste, spread thickly on oval crackers, and 
put a cherry on top of each. 



NUTS 

In the so-called "bloodless" or meatless diet that is being 
adopted by many food faddists and others, nuts of all kinds 
are a prominent factor. 

The variety and supply, however, are quite equal to the 
demand and many foreign lands are sending their output 
to our markets. 

The various health food companies pack nut specialties 
to be used in conjunction with their health cereals and 
fruits. 

But the most reliable headquarters for nuts are the big 
wholesale shops who retail if customers will carry home their 
own purchases. The big grocers which handle first-class 
stock are also rehable places for nuts of the best known 
varieties. 

Almonds we find in three grades, the "Ne Plus Ultra" of 
California being the finest. The almonds from Tarragon 
have the hardest shells, but are good, full-meated nuts for 
cooking purposes. The Jordan almonds are preferred for 
table use by many. 

The Brazil nut contains enough oil to be considered nutri- 
tious and warming to the body. Some of us have no doubt 
often wondered just why this nut should have grown in such 
an odd three-cornered shaped shell; one of us has recently 
found out that with five of its fellows it fits like the segments 
of an orange in a big round burr or shell, which accounts 
for its shape. 

The month of March brings the best Brazil nuts to mar- 
ket, the large "washed" nuts, and they are some time drying 
out before they are ready to sell. 

382 



Nvits 383 

California is furnishing the finest walnuts. They are 
large and sweet, with light colored thin shells. The French 
ones used to be leaders but lately have not been quite up 
to the standard. The black walnuts from the southern 
part of Michigan are the finest, but are almost too rich to 
eat freely of even with a meatless diet. 

Hickory nuts from New York State are always fine, and 
are in great demand for cake and candy making. The old- 
fashioned butternuts seem to be going out of style and 
favor, so that fewer and fewer are sent to this market each 
season. Hazelnuts from Naples and filberts from Sicily 
hold their own as old-time favorites for table use. 

It remained, however, for the State of Missouri to "show 
us," the nut lovers of the country, a pecan worth while. 
The nuts are long, full-meated and thin-shelled, and the wise 
ones have to be "shown" them but once to refuse all others 
when buying. Those from Mexico have hard shells and the 
natives have a mysterious way of polishing the shells before 
sending them to market that gives them a peculiar reddish 
color, which is rather attractive. 

From Armenia come the pistachio nuts, some already 
salted for table use in the shell and of largest size; others 
come for eating, candy and ice cream making. 

The Chinese lychee nuts have become quite familiar to 
us in their round, pebbly shells, and appear with the dessert 
nuts on many tables. 

Chestnuts from France, England, Spain, and our own 
country keep the market stocked in and out of season, and 
are becoming popular for cooking. They are used in many 
ways. 

The pine nuts are most popular with food faddists. How- 
ever they might not retain their popularity if each person 
had to shell his own nuts. The process of heating the cones 
until each upturned shell-like leaf opens to release the tiny 
nut is a long and tiresome job. 

The newcomers in nut aristocracy are the Luzon and pili 
nuts from the Philippines. They are a sort of first cousin 



384 Nuts 

to the Brazil nut family, looking a bit like them in shape but 
having a smooth shell, easier to crack. 

South America is sending its princess nuts to the States 
now. They are not as large as the Brazils and have a wavy 
sort of shell like the walnut. 

To Salt Nuts 

A general rule for salting nuts is here given which will 
be found satisfactory for home use in salting nuts that are 
usually treated in that way. 

Select the best quality of nuts to be salted, shell them 
carefully, leaving the nuts whole, then plunge them into 
boiling water, allowing them to stand there for five minutes. 
Drain, blanch, and dry them on a soft cloth. Put a half 
teaspoon of sweet butter into a shallow pan with the nuts, 
dust them very lightly with salt, set the pan in a medium 
oven, watch very carefully, and stir so that the nuts 
color evenly. When they are a delicate brown turn them 
out onto coarse brown paper, rolling them around until they 
are free from every particle of loose salt and grease, trans- 
ferring them to clean paper often. When cold they may be 
put away in a dry, clean glass covered jar, or in wax paper 
lined boxes. 

Many people do them without putting in any butter, 
just drying them in the oven with the salt ; but this is a mat- 
ter of fancy. The nuts generally salted are the Jordan 
almond, the Brazil nut, filberts, pecans, peanuts, English 
walnuts, pine nuts, and pistachio nuts. The princess nut 
and Brazil nut, owing to their fatty composition, do not 
blanch well. 

Brazil Nut Butter 

After shelling and paring as many nuts as one wishes to 
make into butter, put them through the nut grinder, grind- 
ing to a fine meal, pack it in Httle jars, cover closely, and 



Nuts 385 

keep in a cool place until needed. In preparing for table 
allow half a cup of the meal to one of butter. 

Chestnuts as a Vegetable 

Peel and blanch a pound of chestnuts without breaking, 
then throw them into boiling water and boil eighteen to 
twenty minutes, until they are tender ; drain, season lightly 
with a little salt, hold over the fire a moment until they are 
dry and mealy, add to an English brown sauce, and serve 
garnished with toast sippets. 

Water Chestnuts 

Water chestnuts are greatly favored by Japanese and 
Chinese cooks. They are used cooked or thinly sliced in 
salads; they cook in the same length of time that the 
ordinary chestnut does, and make a pleasant addition to 
sauces. They are improved by the accompaniment of the 
bamboo sprouts, either cooked or raw in salad. 

Pine Paste 

Grind a half cup of pine nuts and add them to a package 
of cream cheese, add half a red pepper and three olives 
chopped fine, juice of one onion, a saltspoon of salt, a half 
saltspoon of pepper, and a level teaspoon of sugar, adding 
enough sweet cream to make a spreading paste. Lay up in 
sandwiches made of rye bread cut very thin and lightly 
spread with honey instead of butter. Cut the sandwiches 
in rounds and if they are to stand a while put in a cool 
place and cover with a linen cloth wrung out of cold water, 
which will keep them moist and the edges from curling. 

Nut Roast 

Boil one can of peas twenty minutes, then strain through 
a sieve, add one cup of finely chopped or ground English wal- 
nuts, a cup and a half of fine bread crumbs, two beaten eggs, 

2S 



386. Nuts 

a heaping tablespoon of butter, a saltspoon of pepper, and 
a half teaspoon of salt ; mold firmly in brick shape and place 
in well-buttered shallow roasting pan. Brush over with 
white of egg, baste twice with a quarter cup of white wine in 
which a lump of butter has been melted, and a dash of sugar 
and a grating of nutmeg added. Roast a half to three 
quarters of an hour, according to the oven heat, but do not 
burn or dry it too much. Serve a brown mushroom sauce 
with the roast, which should be sufficient for five persons. 

Nut Cutlets 

One fourth pound of lentils, two ounces of almonds, one 
fourth ounce of butter, one fourth ounce of flour, one egg. 

Cook lentils and rub through a sieve. Blanch and grind 
the almonds. Make a batter with the butter and flour, add 
the lentils, almonds, and any desired seasoning. Mix well 
and turn onto plate. Make in a flat shape. Divide into 
six equal portions, making into cutlet shapes. Roll in 
beaten egg and bread crumbs. Fry in deep fat. Serve 
with tomato sauce. 

Pine Nut Roast 

Take two cups of green pea pulp (two cans of peas drained 
and pulped) , one cup of chopped pine nuts, one cup of bread 
crumbs, one cup of grated pineapple, one small grated onion, 
a half gill of melted butter, one beaten egg, a half teaspoon 
salt, a saltspoon of pepper, and, if the mixture seems a little 
too thick, add a little cream. Turn into a buttered baking 
dish and cook until the roast is thick enough to slice. Serve 
with it a pineapple brown sauce, which is thickened with 
browned flour and has a cup of grated pineapple cooked in it. 

Peanut Macaroons 

Beat the whites of three eggs until foamy, add one quarter 
teaspoon of cream tartar, and beat until dry. Then beat 



N\its 387 

in gradually one half cup of sugar. When all is in and the 
mixture very light, fold in one half cup of sugar, one tea- 
spoon flour, and one pint of peanuts chopped to a powder. 
Drop by teaspoons onto a tin, lined with a buttered paper. 
Sift granulated sugar on top of each, and bake on floor of a 
quick oven from five to seven minutes. 

Walnut Fritters 

Put a small cup of milk and half an ounce of butter in a 
saucepan, over the fire. When it boils, add three ounces of 
dried and browned bread crumbs and a little dredging of 
flour. Let it cook until it no longer adheres to the pan, 
and remove from the fire. When cool, add two eggs beaten 
smooth, a large tablespoon of chopped walnut meats, a 
saltspoon of salt, a half saltspoon of pepper, a small grated 
onion, and a dessertspoon of chutney syrup. Mix well and 
shape into cakes a half inch thick, on a floured board. Roll 
the cakes in egg and bread crumbs and fry. Serve with 
grilled tomatoes and walnut gravy. This gravy is a me- 
dium brown sauce, mixed with walnuts chopped very fine. 

Almond Pudding 

Blanch and pound a half pound of sweet almonds and six 
bitter ones to a smooth paste with a spoonful of water ; warm 
a quarter of a pound of butter and mix with the almonds 
and add four eggs, two tablespoons of sugar, two tablespoons 
of cream, and a tablespoon of brandy; leave out the whites 
of two of the eggs, beat them well, and add after the other 
ingredients are all well mixed; half fill buttered cups and 
bake twenty minutes; turn the puddings out onto a dish 
and serve with a sweet sauce. 

Marrons in Honey 

Take one pound of fresh marrons in the shell ; remove the 
shells carefully and place without breaking into boiling 



388 Nvits 

water for five minutes, when they may be easily blanched ; 
then place in a saucepan covered with milk and simmer 
until the chestnuts are tender. Mash through a sieve, add 
a quarter pound of honey, mix well; then put the mass 
through a ricer onto a pretty dish and surround it with 
whipped cream. If one desires the dish a little sweeter it 
may be sweetened before putting through the ricer. 



I 

i 



BREAD 

"Which shall I choose?" This is the question which 
confronts the cook who is experimenting with the various 
fruit, vegetable, and grain flours. One really does not 
know how many there are without stopping to investigate, 
so many have appeared on the market in answer to the 
demand of the food educators. 

Of course all cooks are well acquainted with rye, wheat, 
graham, whole wheat, rice, bran, barley, and corn flour, all of 
which have become far better products with the enforced 
pure food laws. But the banana, chestnut, lima bean, 
string bean, lentil, cassava root, yellow pea, green pea, 
potato, and mixed vegetable flours are new enough to most 
of us to need an introduction. Nearly all of the finest 
grades of these so-called fancy flours are of Swiss manufac- 
ture and are a bit too dear for everyday use. However, for 
invalids and children they are highly recommended. The 
expert cook finds them most excellent in sauce making, 
for they not only do the necessary thickening but add a 
delicate flavor all their own when properly combined. In 
some instances they also do the work of a coloring agent. 

Banana flour makes delicious cake in layers to be laid up 
with fresh banana filling. Chestnut flour makes very ac- 
ceptable chestnut sauce if one does not want to bother with 
the nuts or if they are not at hand to use. 

Potato flour is excellent to use for potato pancakes 
or the Irish potato shortcake, which is baked in an iron 
frying pan on top of the stove. It is also good for soup 
thickening. Most of the other flours are adapted for gruels, 
sauces, or invalid soups. 

389 



390 Dread 

In using the wheat flour, the damp fine flour will be found 
to make the best pastry, while the dry, coarser variety 
makes the best bread. In place of using the compressed 
yeast in dough raising, there is a new product brought out by 
the same makers in the form of a dry yeast cake. It may 
also be had in a coarse yeast powder, which the professional 
cooks who are experimenting with it find does just as good 
work, and is always at hand for city or country use, so one 
need not depend upon delivery of the fresh yeast cakes. 

The pans for the lighter flour mixtures should be warmed 
and lightly buttered before turning in the dough. For the 
heavier flours, have the pans quite hot and well buttered 
before turning in the dough. By following these rules at 
least five minutes of heating time will be saved. 

In bread or muffin baking the heat of the oven is of great 
importance. A good medium oven is always the safest, 
for if too hot it burns before it bakes, and if too cool the 
mixture rises out of all proportion, bakes slowly, and is 
apt to fall when removed, or else be dry and tasteless. The 
medium oven may be sharpened a bit at the end of the bak- 
ing time to insure a more even browning. If the oven is 
inclined to brown too quickly one should always have at 
hand sheets of asbestos paper to lay over the cooking 
dough. 

Though the flour and yeast are of first importance in 
bread-stuff making, the other ingredients, such as butter, 
sweet milk, and eggs, should be beyond reproach, and the 
sour milk, if used, should be clotted before the soda is added 
to it. 

The increased cost of bread may induce many women to 
turn to home baking, and therefore to welcome a recipe 
which simplifies the process. Usually from five to seven hours 
are required in baking. The recipe given below will give 
three loaves of bread, fully as large as the baker's ten cent 
loaf, and two pans of biscuits. One pan of biscuits may be 
used hot immediately, and the other, if desired, after 
being molded into shape, may be set on the ice until next 



Bread 39^ 

morning, when it should be allowed to rise a half hour and 
baked twenty minutes, for breakfast. 

Flour varies in texture, some requiring more milk or water 
than others, so that one must vary the time and heat required 
proportionately in baking. Milk will always make more 
tender bread than water, but half and half is the usual 
ratio. The compressed yeast must be absolutely fresh, 
that the buds may yield all the rising quality that is expected 
of them. A poor, thin, or stale cake causes imperfect 
fermentation, the result being a heavy, unwholesome loaf. 

The home-made bread is cheaper than baker's bread, be- 
cause it lasts longer, goes a great deal further, does not 
dry up and grow stale and hard overnight, but tastes well 
just as long as there is a crust left. If the milk is sterilized, 
as this recipe calls for, the bread will keep fresh very much 
longer. 

Pour into the bread pan one pint of sweet milk, add to it 
one pint of boiling water, and let stand until lukewarm. Add 
a lump of butter the size of a small hen's egg, a teaspoon of 
salt, and the yeast cake, dissolved in one cup of cold water. 
Sift in the flour slowly, beating with a spoon as long as the 
batter can be moved in that way, then knead with both 
hands until the dough leaves the pan clean. Transfer to a 
floured board, where it must be kneaded lightly, but quickly, 
until filled with air bubbles. The more it is tossed and 
shaken, the better for it. Dust the pan lightly with flour 
and lay the bread in it ; cover with a clean, heavy cloth and 
set in a warm corner to rise. 

When risen properly, which will take from five to seven 
hours, according to the heat, the clearness of the weather, and 
the texture of the flour, have ready two well buttered biscuit 
pans, holding six or eight biscuits, and three bread pans. 
Pinch off the biscuit and shape them, putting one pan 
immediately on the ice for breakfast, leaving the others 
to rise and bake for dinner. Shape the loaves of bread and 
place them again in the warm corner, covered, until they 
rise to three quarters the height of the pan; then bake in a 



392 Bread 

moderate, even oven from forty minutes to an hour, cover- 
ing with a sheet of asbestos paper lest they brown too quickly 
on top. Test them with a strong broom splint to be assured 
they are done in the center, and remove from the oven. 
Take them out of the pans, and when the moisture has 
evaporated and they are thoroughly cold, put them into the 
bread box. 

Twice or three times a week will be sufficient to bake for a 
family of foiir or six persons, and it takes but a small por- 
tion of the day in which to perform the task. 

Steamed Graham Bread 

Four cups of sifted graham flour, sifted four times; one 
cup of molasses, two cups of sour milk, two teaspoons of 
salt, two even teaspoons of soda, and one cup of raisins. 
Dissolve the soda in two or three teaspoons of hot water, and 
pour into the sour milk and molasses. When it stops 
effervescing, stir in the flour and add the raisins, which have 
been dredged in flour. Bake in well greased pans or molds. 
Steam three hours with the cover on; then set in a hot oven 
for twenty minutes, to dry and brown. 

Oatmeal Bread with Honey 

To a cupful of rolled oats add three cups of hot water, 
three quarters of a cup of honey, a heaping tablespoon of 
butter, and a level teaspoon of salt; stir the mixture thor- 
oughly and when cooled to blood heat add a yeast cake that 
has been dissolved in a half cup of water. Stir in enough 
flour to make a kneading dough; knead, then set to raise six 
hours, then mold into two loaves, raise again, and when 
the pans are three quarters full bake forty to fifty minutes. 
Brush over the tops of the loaves with one te? spoon of 
honey blended with two of milk. 

Steamed Brown Bread 

Two cups of sour milk in one of which a heaping tea- 
spoon of soda is to be dissolved, when it foams add one cup 



Bread 393 

of sweet milk, one cup of rye meal, one cup of corn meal, one 
cup of molasses, a level saltspoon of salt; mix well, put into 
a steamer and steam four hours, then bake slowly for one 
hour. 

Rye Bread 

For rye bread use one pint of milk, scalded, one pint of 
water, a level teaspoon of salt, one yeast cake dissolved in a 
half a cup of cold water ; mix and add, slowly sifting in, one 
quart of rye flour. Beat hard for five minutes, then add 
enough flour to make the dough of kneading consistency. 
Knead until the dough is free from all stickiness, then 
return it to the floured pan and allow it to rise for three 
hours. Turn it back onto the board, shape the loaves, and 
place them in buttered baking pans, baking them from thirty 
to forty minutes, testing with a straw. 

Pulled Bread 

Take a loaf of two-day-old bread, preferably French 
bread, and trim ofif the crusts, then tear the bread apart 
with two forks into pieces a little larger than an egg; place 
these on a tin in a cool oven and when they are thoroughly 
dry increase the heat and allow them to become a delicate, 
even brown color. 

Bread Sticks 

When making bread and shaping it to put in the pans 
take off a small lump, roll it out, and cut strips seven inches 
long from it. Roll these about the size of a lead pencil, lay 
them on a buttered baking pan, and allow them to rise 
until they double in size. Then bake in a quick oven for 
fifteen to eighteen minutes. 

QUICK HOT BREAD 

Regardless of the menace of indigestion the average 
person is very fond of hot bread, and those who have 



394 Bread 

sojourned in the South return home to tell of breakfasts at 
which seven kinds of hot bread were served and vow that 
they will insist on having the same dainties here in the 
North. But somehow Northern people seem to cling to the 
morning toast or one or two varieties of muffins as their 
only indulgence in this line. 

Perhaps it is because it seems too much trouble to provide 
the hot breads or the baker is too handy. However, if one 
gets the habit it really takes but thirty minutes to turn out 
the perfect product — ten for the making and twenty for the 
baking — not a serious outlay of time considering the homy 
touch and taste it engenders in the family circle. 

Of course the best quick biscuits are made from the raised 
dough. Other possibilities besides the biscuits are the 
rusk, the fried bread, and the old-fashioned raisin rolls. 
These take a little more time than the hot rolls and other 
breads made with baking powder, but are well worth the 
trouble at least once a week. 

Hot Raised Biscuit 

When the bread dough is ready to put in the pans pinch 
enough biscuits off the dough and roll them in small balls. 
Lay them in rows in buttered pans, pricking the top of each 
with a fork, and let them rise to double their size. Put a 
little lump of butter between every two. Bake them twenty 
minutes. 

Fried Bread 

When the bread dough is ready for the pans cut off a 
good sized piece, roll it out on a floured board, and cut strips 
half an inch thick and four inches long. Roll them round 
between the hands and lay them on a floured board, allow- 
ing three to each member of the family and a few over. Let 
them rise until they puff up, then have ready a kettle of 
hot lard and fry them to a delicate brown. Heap them on 
a platter in a napkin and serve with maple syrup or hot 
honey. 



Dread 395 

Rusk 

Take one pint of milk, one egg, three quarters of a cup of 

sugar, one half cup of butter, one half teaspoon of salt, and 
three quarters of a compressed yeast cake dissolved in 
half a cup of cold water. Add flour enough to make a stiff 
batter that can be stirred with a spoon. Let it rise till 
light, then mold into small cakes. Lay the cakes in a well 
buttered pan and let them rise again and bake to a delicate 
brown. Brush over the top with a buttered cloth and 
sprinkle with powdered sugar. A cup of seeded raisins or 
currants may be added if desired. 

Sally Lunn 

Take one pint of flour, two teaspoons of baking powder, 
and half a teaspoon of salt. Beat two eggs, whites and 
yolks separately; add half a cup of sweet milk to the yolks, 
stir slovdy into the flour, adding one half cup of melted 
butter, beat thoroughly, then add last the beaten whites of 
the eggs. Bake in well buttered warm muffin pans, filling 
them two thirds full; bake about twenty minutes. 

Egg Puffs 

Mix one pound of sifted flour with one tablespoon of 
baking powder, one teaspoon of salt, and two tablespoons 
of sugar. Beat three eggs, add them to two tablespoons of 
melted butter, mix all together, and add enough warm 
milk to make a moderately thin batter. Fill well greased 
hot muffin tins half full and bake quickly. 

Popovers 

Take one egg, beating white and yolk separately; one cup 
of sweet milk, one cup of flour, and a pinch of salt. Beat all 
together, adding the white of the egg last. Bake twenty 
minutes in buttered muffin tins. 



396 Bread 

Sweet Potato Buns 

Boil and mash one large sweet potato, roll into it as much 
flour as will make it like bread, add spice and sugar to taste, 
with a spoonful of yeast, a quarter yeast cake dissolved in 
cold water. When it has risen, work in a good sized piece 
of butter and bake it in small rolls, to be eaten hot. 

Banana Popovers 

Take one cup and a half of banana flour, one egg, the 
white and yolk beaten separately, a saltspoon of salt, three 
quarters of a cup of sweet milk or half a cup of whipped 
cream; mix all together, beat lightly, and pour into warm 
thinly buttered pans. Bake in a medium oven about 
twenty minutes, but the time must be judged by the way 
the popovers brown. 

Quick Biscuits 

Sift two cups of flour, two teaspoons of salt, and two tea- 
spoons of baking powder into the mixing bowl; then put in 
alternately four tablespoons of olive oil and three quarters 
of a cup of milk; stir the mixture lightly with a spoon, turn 
on floured board, roll out, and cut desired size. Bake in 
shallow pans in a quick oven. 

Com Pone 

Take a heaping coffee cupful of boiled hominy, beat it and 
thin it with a tablespoon of butter, three eggs, and a pint of 
sweet milk. Add as much cornmeal as will serve to thicken 
the mixture until it is like the batter for johnnycake. 
Bake in a quick oven and serve hot. 

Egg Rolls 

Beat two eggs into one cup of milk, add one tablespoon of 
melted butter, one cup of flour, one teaspoon of baking 



Bread 397 

powder; mix well, then add enough flour to make the dough 
stiff enough to roll. Cut into small rounds and bake in a 
hot oven. 

Dainty Biscuits 

Work four ounces of butter into a quart of flour. Add 
enough milk to make it into paste and knead it well. Roll 
very thin and cut small. Bake a very deUcate brown. 

Rice Gems 

Take a half cup of butter and melt it over the teakettle. 
Mix two cups of sugar with four eggs, beat thoroughly, 
and then add the melted butter. Sift together one and a 
half cups of rice flour and one and a half cups of wheat 
flour and one teaspoon of baking powder; mix thor- 
oughly, then add a half cup of cream, beat the batter 
light and pour it into well greased pans, baking in 
a hot oven ten to fifteen minutes. Sometimes a few drops 
of lemon juice is added to the gem batter, but this is a matter 
of taste. 

Scotch Scones 

Put one quart of flour in a mixing bowl with one teaspoon 
of sugar, a half teaspoon of salt, and two teaspoons of bak- 
ing powder. Rub in one large tablespoon of lard, two beaten 
eggs, and three quarters of a pint of milk. Mix the dough 
smooth and turn it onto the molding board. Roll it out an 
eighth of an inch thick, cut into squares the size of a soda 
cracker, and fold over the diagonal corners to make them 
three-cornered. B ake on a hot griddle eight or ten minutes, 
cooking them a delicate brown on both sides. 

Ham Muflans 

These muffins are a Mexican dainty and are unusual 
enough to be interesting. They are quite easily made. 



398 Bread 

Beat one quarter of a cup of butter to a cream ; add gradually 
three quarters of a cup of cold boiled ham chopped very 
fine, a well beaten egg, one cupful of graham flour, and one 
cupful of white flour sifted with two heaping teaspoons 
of baking powder, and a cup of sweet milk. Have the 
muffin tins hot and well buttered, and bake the muffins 
for twenty-five minutes. This recipe was one of twenty- 
three prize winning recipes selected from eighty-five hun- 
dred submitted in a recent contest under the auspices 
of the General Chemical Company for Ryzon Baking 
Powder. 

Com Muflans 

Take one cup of yellow cornmeal, one half cup of flour, a 
tablespoon of sugar, one and a half teaspoons of baking 
powder, one beaten egg, one and a half cups of sweet milk, 
and a generous pinch of salt. Bake in hot greased gem pans 
from twenty to thirty minutes. 

Gluten Muffins 

Take two cups of gluten flour, two cups of milk, two tea- 
spoons of baking powder, one well beaten egg. Mix the dry 
ingredients, stir in the beaten eggs and milk, beat thoroughly 
together, and half fill well buttered gem pans. Bake twenty 
minutes. 

Chestnut Muffins 

Beat three eggs, their whites and yolks separately, add 
three quarters of a pint of sweet milk and a tablespoon of 
melted butter, sift in one cup of chestnut flour with two 
teaspoons of baking powder. Beat the batter smooth, then 
add enough chestnut flour to bring the batter to a proper 
consistency, add also a pinch of salt, and half fill warm 
buttered muffin pans. Bake about twenty minutes. 



Dread 399 

Fruit Muffins 

Take one pint of flour, a quarter teaspoon of salt, two 
tablespoons of melted butter, a quarter cup of sugar, two 
small teaspoons of baking powder, one egg, and one cup of 
milk. Mix thoroughly as for plain muffins and add last of 
all one cup of fresh berries, seeded raisins, or finely chopped 
preserved fruit, dusted with a little flour. Bake in well 
greased muffin pans in a hot oven twenty minutes. See 
that the fruit is properly drained before being added. 
Blueberries will be found especially good in these muffins. 

Parker House Rolls 

This is a raised roll made from a famous old Boston 
recipe. Put two quarts of flour in the mixing bowl and 
put in the center of the flour two tablespoons of butter. 
Scald one quart of milk, turn it into the center of the 
flour, add a quarter cup of sugar, a level teaspoon of 
salt, and a yeast cake dissolved in three quarters of a cup of 
cold water. Dust a little floiu* over the top of the surface 
and set aside for three hours, then mix the dough together 
thoroughly and knead it until it is soft and elastic ; do not 
add more flour unless absolutely necessary. Let it rise 
again, then roll out about a half inch thick and cut in rounds 
with a good sized cutter, brush over with butter, and fold 
over envelope fashion. Then place the biscuits in a well 
buttered baking pan, far enough apart so they do not touch 
one another, let them rise for an hour and a half, then bake 
in a quick oven for twenty minutes. 

Hot Cross Buns 

Mix two pounds of flour, half a pound of well washed 
currants, a teaspoon of mixed spices, a yeast cake dissolved 
in three quarters of a cup of cold water, and a half pint of 
warm milk. Mix the batter thoroughly, add a teaspoon of 
salt, and set it to rise. When it fermentsadd a quarter of a 



400 Bread 

pound of melted butter and enough milk to make a soft 
paste. Dust with flour and let rise again, for half an hour. 
Shape the dough into buns and lay them apart on buttered 
tin plates in rows to rise for a half hour. Press the 
tops with a cross mold and bake in a quick oven. Pow- 
dered sugar may be sprinkled over the tops when the buns 
are done. This recipe makes two dozen buns. 

Com Bread 

Mix one tablespoon of butter with two tablespoons of 
sugar and beat to a cream, add the yolks of two eggs and the 
beaten whites, stirring well, sift in one cup of cornmeal, one 
cup of wheat flour, and two level teaspoons of baking powder. 
Mix all together and add slowly one cup of milk. Pour the 
mixture into a buttered and lightly floured baking pan, and 
bake in a medium oven for fifteen minutes. 

Nut Bread 

Sift together three cups of pastry flour, three level tea- 
spoons of baking powder, a teaspoon of salt, and three 
quarters of a cup of sugar, add one cup of chopped nut- 
meats, one egg beaten light, and one cup of milk. Mix 
and beat the dough until it is smooth, turn into a square 
buttered bread pan, and bake forty-five minutes. 

Unleavened Bread 

Take three cups of white flour, a half cup of thick sweet 
cream, a saltspoon of salt, and a half cup of cold water. 
Sift the flour in the mixing dish, adding the salt and cream, 
then rub together thoroughly. Then moisten with enough 
cold water to make the mixture of the consistency of thick 
pie crust. Knead and roll with the . hands steadily for 
fifteen minutes on a floured board. Then roll the dough 
to about a quarter of an inch in thickness, cut it into four- 
inch squares, mark the squares in half across the top, so 



Bread 401 

that when baked they may be easily broken, and prick each 
square with a fork to keep them from bhstering. Lay 
on floured baking tins and bake in a quick oven, being 
car ef til not to burn or scorch. 

Scotch Oat Cakes 

Put a half pound of fine Scotch oatmeal into a mixing 
bowl. In a cup put a pinch of baking soda and a piece 
of butter the size of a hazelnut ; add a half cup of hot water 
and stir until the butter is all melted. Then mix with the 
meal in the bowl, using a thin bladed knife ; when the mix- 
ture is blended, turn out onto a molding board and knead 
it with the knuckles, keeping it round and not letting it 
crack at the edges. Strew plenty of dry meal over it and 
roll with a crimped roller, brushing off all the loose meal 
which does not adhere to the dough. Roll about as thick as 
an old copper cent; then cut the cake in three pieces and place 
them on a griddle to toast. As they get done, move them to 
a hotter place. Try them with the thumbnail to see when 
they are done, and, if they have ceased to be doughy, 
remove them to a toaster to dry but do not let them 
bum. 

Scotch Short Bread 

Beat one pound of butter to a cream, gradually sift into it 
two pounds of flour, then add a quarter of a pound of sugar, 
half an ounce of caraway seeds, one ounce of blanched sweet 
almonds cut in pieces or chopped, and a pinch of salt ; work 
the paste until it is quite smooth and divide it into six equal 
pieces, put each cake on a separate piece of thick writing 
paper, roll the paste out square to the thickness of about 
an inch, and ornament all sides with the tines of a silver 
fork. Prick the top of the cakes well with the fork and orna- 
ment them with strips of candied orange peel. Put the cakes 
into a good oven and bake them twenty-five minutes. 
26 



402 Bread 

Scotch Cakes 

Cream together one pound of butter and three quarters 
of a pound of brown sugar, a tablespoon of caraway seeds, 
a teaspoon of cinnamon, and a pound and a half of flour. 
Mix well, roll, cut in squares, and bake from fifteen to 
twenty minutes. 

Yorkshire Pudding 

Take a half pound of flour, one half teaspoon of salt, one 
teaspoon of baking powder, mix smooth with a half pint of 
milk, then add two tablespoons of melted butter and the 
other half pint of milk. Bake in a quick oven and serve 
under the roast English fashion. 

Maryland Beaten Biscuits 

Rub together one quart of flour, one teaspoon of salt, 
one tablespoon of butter, add one cup of cold water to 
make a stifi dough, then put on the board or a block and 
beat with a mallet for a half hour, when it will be brittle. 
Roll on the board and cut into half-inch thick rounds, prick 
with a fork like a cracker, and bake twenty minutes. 

English Muffins 

Heat in a double boiler one pint of milk and when hot 
add two tablespoons of butter and remove from the fire. 
When cool stir in a yeast cake that has been dissolved in a 
half cup of cold water, a level teaspoon of salt, and gradu- 
ally sift in one pint of flour. Beat all together, then cover 
and stand away in a warm place for two hoiu-s or a little 
longer if not quite light. Lay greased muffin rings on a 
griddle, grease it lightly, and half fill rings with the muffin 
batter. Cook slowly, turning them with a pancake turner, 
and when they are cooked sufficiently to slip from the rings 
cook a few minutes on either side but do not burn them. 
They may be eaten hot or when cold pulled apart and 
toasted. 



Bread 403 

WAFFLES 
Plain Waffle Batter 

Sift together one cup of flour, a saltspoon of salt, and a 
half teaspoon of baking powder ; add a teaspoon of sugar and 
two eggs beaten white and yolks separately, and stir in one 
cup of sweet milk. When all is beaten Hght and smooth 
the batter is ready to use. 

Rice Waffles 

Mix three cups of sifted flour with a saltspoon of salt, two 
cups of boiled rice, and a teaspoonful of baking powder. 
Mix three eggs with a cup of milk and make the batter very 
smooth. Have the waffle irons hot and well greased and 
cook immediately, 

French Waffles 

Sift one quart of flour into the mixing bowl, add a tea- 
spoon of salt and four tablespoons of olive oil; mix thor- 
oughly, then add the yolks of three eggs beaten into one 
and a half pints of milk. Beat for five minutes. Set the 
batter aside and let it stand for thirty minutes, then add four 
level teaspoons of baking powder ; beat it again and fold in 
the well beaten whites of the eggs, and the waffle batter is 
ready for use. Brush the waffle iron over with the oil. 

Sweet Potato Waffles 

Boil enough sweet potatoes so that when mashed they 
yield two cups; add two eggs, a half cup of sugar, a cup of 
melted butter, a pint of rich milk, and flour enough to make 
a thin batter. If the potatoes seem soggy, it is wise to add 
a half teaspoon of baking powder, but if they are light and 
dry this is not necessary. Bake the waffles small and serve 
three to a portion, dusted with a little powdered sugar and 
lemon juice. 



404 Bread 

Banana Waffles 

Make a batter with two cups of banana flour, a level 
teaspoon of baking powder, a half teaspoon of salt, two 
beaten eggs, a teaspoon of sugar, and one cup of milk. 
Beat until very smooth and cook. When done dust the 
waffles with powdered sugar and sprinkle with a few drops 
of lemon juice. 

PANCAKES 

If aluminum griddles or grills are used, they require 
no greasing, but a small amount of butter is added to the 
cake batter instead, which prevents it sticking. Thus 
the smoke which has always been objectionable from the 
greasy griddle is avoided. 

The raised griddle cake made with yeast has almost 
entirely lost favor, since modern baking powder or whipped 
eggs seem to have raising powers superior to the yeast and 
are infinitely more time-saving. Fresh eggs, sweet milk, 
good butter, and the right sorts of flours must be at hand 
for the most successful pancake making. The most satis- 
factory way of using the batter after it is made is to turn it 
into a pitcher that has a long, slender spout and pour the 
cakes of equal size. 

Wheat Cakes 

One quart of flour, three teaspoons of baking powder, 
and half a teaspoon of salt ; sift well together and add sweet 
milk enough to make a soft batter. Bake the cakes at once 
on a hot griddle, being sure that they are thin. 

Glen House Flannel Cakes 

Put two ounces of butter into a pint of hot milk and let it 
melt, then add a pint of rich cold milk, four well beaten 
eggs, a teaspoon of salt, a half yeast cake dissolved in half a 
cup of cold water, and sufficient flour to make a stiff batter. 



Bread 4^5 

Set it in a warm place three hours to rise ; then fry the cakes 
on a hot greased griddle and serve with hot maple syrup, 
fresh butter, and whipped cream. 

Buckwheat Cakes 

The buckwheat cakes are made in the same way as the 
wheat cakes only using buckwheat flour. To be good 
they must be Hght and thin. The sausage that may be 
served with them should be slipped from the cases or the 
loose sausage meat used. Place it in a bowl and season 
with a little finely powdered sweet herbs, a saltspoon of 
pepper, a half teaspoon of salt, a tablespoon of Worcester- 
shire sauce, two tablespoons of sweet cream, and the stiffly 
beaten white of one egg. Beat it thoroughly and form into 
fiat, thin cakes that will fry quickly. Serve sandwich 
fashion between two cakes, and each sandwich is a portion. 
Serve with them a tureen of hot honey, or, if preferred, a 
thin chestnut sauce. A pound of sausage meat will make 
ten cakes. 

The old-fashioned buckwheat cakes, made with yeast and 
raised overnight, were very apt to become sour, and dis- 
agreeable effects often followed their eating. This is 
entirely obviated by the use of the baking powder, which 
makes the cakes much more wholesome. 

Many recipes lighten the flour by the addition of a 
small amount of fine Indian meal, others add a small 
quantity of banana flour, but this is a matter of taste 

Venetian Bread Cakes 

Remove the crumb of a five-cent loaf, soak in warm water 
two minutes, then wring dry in a towel; beat two eggs with 
the bread, two teaspoons of brown sugar, teaspoon of salt, 
one and a half teaspoons of baking powder; sift one pint of 
flour, and, stirring the mixture, carefully add three quarters 
of a pint of milk. When the batter is thoroughly smooth, 
if it seems too thick add a little bit more milk and a tea- 



4o6 Bread 

spoon of melted butter. Cook the cakes on a well heated 
griddle; serve with them whipped cream, to which a little 
powdered sugar, a few drops of vanilla, and two teaspoons 
of finely ground walnut meats have been added. 

German Pancake 

One cup of flour, teaspoon of sugar, teaspoon of salt, 
yolks of three eggs beaten with a pint of milk; mix the 
batter and beat it smooth; just before cooking the cakes 
blend in the stiffly beaten whites of the eggs. Make the 
cake the size of the griddle; do not turn it. Sprinkle with 
powdered sugar and serve a little tureen of lemon juice 
with it. 

French Pancake 

Sift one cup of flour, a teaspoon of salt and teaspoon of 
baking powder together, add to it two well beaten eggs, 
beaten with a teaspoon of sugar and a pint of milk ; mix into 
a thin batter, adding a teaspoon of melted butter. Make 
the cake rather larger than ordinary, spread it with jelly, 
and roll it; sprinkle with powdered sugar and serve in 
a napkin. 

Rice Pancakes 

The rice pancakes are made in the same way as are the 
wheat cakes except that rice flour is substituted for wheat 
flour. The quantities will remain about the same in both 
cases, but the cook must use her own discretion in the mix- 
ing of the batter. 

Potato Pancakes 

Grate four medium sized raw potatoes into a bowl, add 
half a cup of milk, half a teaspoon of salt, and two eggs. 
Beat all well together until the batter is Hght. Sift in two 
cups of flour, half a teaspoon of baking powder, and if the 



oread 407 

batter is too heavy add a little more milk until it is the 
right consistency. Fry the cakes in the usual way and make 
them as thin as possible. Serve three to a portion after 
turning over them a little melted butter. 

Lentil Pancakes 

Take three heaping cups of lentil flour and half a cup of 
white flour and mix them together. Add a heaping tea- 
spoon of baking powder, a half teaspoon of salt, and a 
teaspoon of sugar. Mix and add a cup of milk, then fold in 
the stiffly beaten whites of two eggs. Beat the batter until 
light and add a little more milk if necessary. Fry and 
serve the cakes with a smooth rich tomato sauce. 

Lima Pancakes 

The lima pancakes are made the same as the lentil pan- 
cakes, only using lima bean flour in place of the lentil flour. 
These vegetable flours are new, and their handling is rather 
difflcult until one gets the knack. They are light when dry, 
much lighter than the ordinary flour, and heavier when wet. 
For that reason the white of egg is used without the yolk for 
the purpose of lightening the batter. The cheese sauce that 
is served with the lima pancakes has for its foundation a 
rich, light cream sauce, not thick and pasty, but creamy and 
well seasoned. Just before serving add, to every three cups 
of the sauce, three quarters of a cup of grated English 
cheese. 

Russian Pancakes 

Make a large thin wheat pancake, cook in the usual way, 
and when done spread with the following paste: One tea- 
spoon anchovy paste mixed smooth with two teaspoons of 
sweet butter. Spread the cake with this and sprinkle over 
it a tablespoon of caviar and a finely minced shalot, a few 
drops of lemon juice and a saltspoon of pepper. Roll the 
cake and serve hot. 



408 Bread 

Mocha Pancakes 

The plain wheat cake batter is used for these cakes, 
which are laid up jellycake fashion with a mocha filling. 
Three are served to each portion, the top being dusted 
with a little powdered sugar and finely chopped nut meats. 
Make the mocha filling the same as for the layer cakes, 
only thinner, so it will spread easily. 

Austrian Pancakes 

The Austrian cakes are made of the wheat flour, thin and 
as large as a tea plate. When they are cooked have ready a 
fine hard sauce made of butter and sugar flavored with 
vanilla, having blanched almonds chopped through it, 
and spread each cake quickly and roll it. Serve two to a 
portion and pass peach marmalade with the cakes. 

• Panama Pancakes 

These cakes are made of banana flour. The quantities 
are the same as for the wheat cakes. Fry the cakes a little 
larger than usual and as thin as possible. For the sauce 
chop six bananas and fold them into two cups of whipped 
cream, then add a cup of honey, beating all smoothly 
together. 



DESSERTS » 
Custards 

Custards in which gelatine is used are perhaps the most 
decorative in appearance when they are suitably molded, 
but these require a little more knack in the mixing than do 
the baked or boiled egg custards. Needless to say, only the 
freshest ingredients are permissible in this class of cookery ; 
the purest of flavorings, rich sweet milk, pure cream, 
guaranteed eggs, and a fine-grained granulated sugar, with 
sweet butter, where used, and the best grade of powdered 
gelatine, are necessary for the desired results. In baking 
custards an even steady oven, not too hot, is best and 
they should be tested with a silver knife. After two or 
three bakings the most inexperienced cook will know how to 
judge them. If the custards are boiled use the double boiler, 
the upper recepticle preferably porcelain lined or of granite- 
ware, and be sure that the water in the under vessel is boil- 
ing when the custard is set over it and kept at boiling point 
until the cooking is done. Never allow it to get low enough 
not to surround the upper vessel ; this insures a steady, even 
heat, which is often neglected and the resulting failure is 
an unexplained mystery to the cook. 

Boiled Custard 

Scald one quart of rich milk; into half of this put the 
yolks of five eggs beaten with three tablespoons of sugar 
and a pinch of salt, mix thoroughly and turn back into the 
rest of the milk. Cook until the milk thickens, which may 
generally be judged by the disappearance of foam from the 

409 



410 Desserts 

top. Cover, and when slightly cool add flavoring to taste 
and the stiffly beaten whites of the eggs, mixing thoroughly 
together. This plain custard often forms the basis of many 
other desserts. 

Baked Custard 

Beat four tablespoo'Sis of sugar with four fresh eggs, turn 
over them one quart of warm milk, stir thoroughly, and add 
the flavoring. Fill custard cups with the mixture and stand 
them in a baking pan three quarters full of warm water. 
Bake in a moderate oven until they are firm in the center. 
Remove from the fire and when cool, chill. 

Rice and Cheese Custard 

Take one cup of boiled rice, add to it two beaten eggs, a 
cup and a half of milk, a tablespoon of melted butter, a tea- 
spoon of sugar, salt and pepper, mix thoroughly, and grate 
thickly over the top English cheese. Bake and serve hot 
with the vegetable course. 

Old-Fashioned Floating Island 

Heat one quart of milk to scalding but not boiling point; 
beat the yolks of four eggs with four tablespoons of sugar, 
two teaspoons of extract of vanilla, and pour gradually over 
them one cup of the hot milk ; then turn all into a saucepan 
and boil until it begins to thicken. When cool turn over 
thinly sliced sponge cake spread with jam and arrange in a 
deep compote. Beat the egg whites very, very stiff, whip- 
ping with them a little soft currant jelly. Drop the whip 
by tablespoons on top of the custard and place a little block 
of currant jelly on the top of each island. Serve very cold. 

Modem Floating Island 

Make a good boiled custard and when it is cold turn it 
into a compote. Beat the whites of four eggs very stiff, 



Desserts 411 

adding a little powdered sugar and a dash of vanilla flavor- 
ing. Very lightly grease a baking dish and drop the mix- 
ture into it by spoonfuls; lightly brown them one minute 
or two in the oven, then dot the top of the custard with 
them, heaping them in the center. Chill and serve. 

Tapioca Custard 

Put two tablespoons of fine tapioca, after washing, in a 
double boiler with one pint of milk; cook and stir until the 
tapioca is transparent, then add the yolks of two eggs 
beaten with three tablespoons of sugar and a pinch of salt, 
and stir until thickened. Remove from the fire and when 
slightly cooled add the whites beaten stiffly; mix thoroughly, 
add the flavoring, and set away to chill. 

SyUabub 

This old fashioned dessert is made by whipping one quart 
of cream with one cup of powdered sugar, beating stiffly 
the whites of four eggs with a small cup of powdered sugar, 
then mixing together and adding a glass of white wine. 
Pour over sliced sugared fresh fruit in season. 

Peach Cobbler 

Peach cobbler is a good Southern dessert which at the 
height of the peach season is at its best. Line a deep, 
square baking pan with good, flaky pie crust, forming an 
ornamental edge, and butter the baking dish well, to make 
sure the crust will not stick. Take fine, ripe peaches and 
quarter them and lay thickly and closely in the crust, 
sprinkling with plenty of sugar. If the baking dish is deep 
enough, two layers may be used, and then a little thin sugar 
syrup may be added, to moisten it until the juice cooks out 
a bit. 

When the peaches are soft the cobbler is done, and it may 
be served hot with a good brandy sauce, or cold with plain 
whipped cream. 



412 Desserts 

Lemon Sponge 

Dissolve two ounces of gelatine in one and three fourths 
pints of water, strain it into a saucepan, and add three 
quarters of a pound of sugar, the juice of five lemons and the 
grated rind of one; simmer gently for ten or fifteen minutes, 
strain, and let it stand until cold and it begins to stiffen. 
Beat the whites of three eggs very stiff, turn them into the 
mixture, and beat together until it is quite white, then turn 
into a mold that has been wet with cold water and set 
away to stiffen. When it is thoroughly cold and ready to 
serve turn onto a dish, garnish with cherries, and serve with 
whipped cream. 

Rhubarb Fool 

Stew two pounds of rhubarb, previously trimmed and 
wiped, add six to eight ounces of sugar, and the juice of a 
lemon, or some lemon-rind. When the rhubarb is tender, 
rub it into syrup through a fine sieve. When the pulp 
is cold, add to it one pint of cream (cold) or a pint of cus- 
tard. Serve in a glass dish. 

Rennet Custard 

Sweeten to taste one quart of rich milk, add to it one table 
spoon of liquid rennet, one teaspoon of vanilla, and two 
tablespoons of sugar. Turn into a glass dish and set near 
the stove where it will get warm. As soon as it begins to 
thicken set on the ice. Serve with any of the fresh fruits 
or with preserves. 

HALF A DOZEN ENGLISH TRIFLES 

The trifle is a dessert much favored by English people 
and is not met with in the United States very often, but it 
is well worth trying. It is a cold dessert which is served in 
a deep comport and is very decorative in appearance. 

The plain trifle is made in the following way : Cover the 



Desserts 413 

bottom of the trifle dish with Httle sponge cakes and maca- 
roons after thickly spreading them with jam, next turn 
over them a cupful of rich fruit syrup, grate over them a 
little lemon peel, and scatter two tablespoons of chopped, 
blanched almonds over them also. Have ready a smooth, 
rich boiled custard made with plenty of eggs, have it chilled, 
turn it over the cakes, and last of all put over the top a whip 
made of one pint of heavy whipped cream, three ounces 
of powdered sugar and the whites of two eggs whipped 
to a stiff froth; this is mixed with the whipped cream, a 
tablespoon of vanilla flavoring and a grating of nutmeg are 
added. Heap this lightly in mound form on top of the cus- 
tard and dot it with candied cherries and strips of angelica. 
It is a good idea to whip and drain the cream several hours 
before it is needed, thereby making sure that it is light 
and fluffy. 

Apple Trifle 

Make a rich smooth apple sauce, using about ten tart 
apples ; when the sauce is cold cover the bottom of the trifle 
comport with it. Make a good custard and when it is 
chilled turn it over the apple sauce. Make the whip 
in the manner described in the foregoing recipe. 

Banana Trifle 

Slice four large bananas thinly, line the bottom of the 
comport with a layer of little sponge cakes, then cover the 
cake with a layer of the sliced banana. Take the juice of 
three lemons and three oranges, sweeten it quite sweet, and 
turn over the banana and cake. Make a smooth boiled 
custard, using a little banana flour in the thickening; when it 
is cool add a little rose coloring to tint it a delicate pink, 
and when chilled turn it over the banana. Make the whip 
in the way indicated before and garnish the top with candied 
rose leaves. 



414 Desserts 

Gooseberry Trifle 

Stew carefully one quart of gooseberries with sufficient 
sugar to sweeten them and reduce them to a pulp. When 
cold cover the bottomiof the trifle dish with them, then put 
in a layer of the chilled custard, and last of all the cream 
whip, dotting the top with blanched pistachio nuts and 
tiny cubes of mint jelly. 

Grape Trifle 

Take four pounds of Isabella grapes, wash and stem them 
and put them in a porcelain-lined pot with a cup of water; let 
them slowly melt and cook until they are done, then put 
them through a puree sieve or fine colander, add sugar to 
taste; cover the bottom of the trifle dish with sponge 
cake, then turn over the grape puree after it has been 
chilled. Next put in a layer of the custard and last of all 
the whip. Garnish this trifle with half pecan nuts and half 
white grapes that have had their seeds removed. 

Grapefruit Trifle 

Remove the pulp from two large firm grapefruit; spread 
some macaroons with apricot jam and line the bottom of the 
comport with them, cover them with a layer of the grape- 
fruit pulp, and sprinkle all with powdered sugar. Make 
the boiled custard and when it is chilled color it a delicate 
green with the Breton coloring, heap the top with the whip, 
and garnish the top with candied mint leaves and candied 
violets. 

Indian Trifle 

Boil with one quart of milk the rind of half a large lemon 
until the milk is flavored with it, then remove the rind and 
stir in five heaping tablespoons of rice flour which has 
been moistened in cold milk. Add sugar to taste and boil 
gently five or six minutes, stirring constantly. Remove 



Desserts 415 

from the fire and when cold pour into a glass dish. When 
thoroughly chilled hollow out the center in any form desired 
and fill with a chilled, smooth custard. Blanch an ounce 
of sweet almonds, cut them in pieces, dot the top of the 
trifle with them, and lay a few cubes of currant jelly over 
the top. 

PUDDINGS 

Baked Apple Pudding 

Fill a pudding dish nearly full of thinly sliced tart apples, 
add a cup and a half of boiling water, and set on the top of 
the range covered closely until they begin to cook. Then 
add one cup of molasses in which a teaspoon of sugar and one 
of flour have been beaten, a grating of nutmeg, then cover 
with a soft rich biscuit dough rolled a half inch thick and 
bake in moderate oven. . Serve with hard sauce. 

Apricot Pudding 

Make a crust as for apple dumplings, roll out to a quarter 
of an inch thickness, and lay on a floured cloth. Spread 
with two and a half cups of apricots that have been pared and 
cut up and allowed to stand one hour covered with one cup 
of sugar. Roll the pudding, tie it in the bag and plunge 
into boiling water, and boil evenly for one and a half hours. 
For the sauce use a cup and a half of sugar to three quarters 
of a cup of butter creamed together and whip into it one egg. 
Set over the teakettle to melt; when thoroughly blended 
add a wineglass of apricot brandy and nutmeg to taste. 

Bachelor's Pudding 

Pare, core, and mince three large apples; add to these four 
ounces of currants, four ounces of grated bread, and two 
ounces of sugar, a few drops of lemon, a grating of nutmeg, 
and three well beaten eggs; beat all together, pour into a 
buttered basin, tie down the cover, plunge into boiling water, 
and let boil three hours ; serve with Rocky Mountain sauce. 



4i6 Desserts 

Blackberry Roly Poly 

Free from fiber a piece of suet weighing slightly less 
than a half pound, skin and chop same. Add to it a half 
pound of flour and a quarter teaspoon of salt, mix enough 
water to make a tender dough, and roll out on a floured 
board until about an inch thick. Spread with carefully 
washed ripe blackberries, sugar them well, roll the dough 
about them, and place the roll in a floured cloth. Plunge 
it into boiling water and boil for two hours. Serve with any 
good pudding sauce. 

Boston Pudding 

One cup of sweet milk, one cup of molasses, one cup of 
finely chopped suet, one cup of raisins, currants, and citron, 
three cups of flour, a dash of the different spices, a pinch of 
salt, and one teaspoon of soda. Mix well and steam for 
three hours. Serve with rich brandy, or Rocky Mountain 
sauce. 

Brown Bread Pudding 

Grate three quarters of a pound of stale brown bread; 
add to it a half pound of carefully chopped suet, half a pound 
of dried currants that have been thoroughly washed, a cup 
of sugar, four eggs, two tablespoons of cream, two of brandy, 
and a grating of nutmeg. Beat the ingredients together and 
turn into a well buttered mold. Tie it down tightly and 
boil for four hours. Serve with a good brandy sauce. 

Canary Pudding 

Take a scant half cup of butter and melt it, but do not let 
it boil; add a full half cup of sugar and the finely minced 
peel of one lemon. Sift in a half cup of flour and add three 
well beaten eggs. Beat all together. Pour into a buttered 
mold and boil two hours. Serve with a rich brandy sauce. 



Desserts 417 

Fig Pudding 

Chop two pounds of figs into small pieces, grate a half 
pound of bread crumbs fine and chop one pound of suet; 
mix all together, add a half pound of flour, two eggs, and 
milk enough to make the whole into a stiff paste. Butter a 
mold and press the pudding into it closely ; tie it down with 
a cloth and boil it for three hours. Turn out on a platter 
and serve with wine sauce, melted butter, or cream as best 
Hked. 

Fruit Pudding 

One cup of sweet milk, one cup of molasses, one cup of 
finely chopped suet, one cup of raisins, currants, and citron, 
three cups of flour, spices, salt, and one teaspoon of bak- 
ing powder. Steam for three hours and serve with a good 
brandy sauce. 

Ginger Pudding 

Mix six ounces of brown bread crumbs with three ounces 
of butter, a saltspoon of ground ginger, the juice of a lemon, 
and four ounces of sugar. Stir these in a stewpan until the 
butter is melted. Chop four ounces of preserved ginger 
and add to the mixture, with the yolks of two eggs. Beat 
well together and set aside to cool. Whip the whites of 
the eggs and stir into the pudding quickly. Fill a buttered 
pudding mold with the mixture, cover with a floured cloth, 
leaving room for the pudding to swell, and steam it for three 
hours. Serve with it a hot fruit sauce. 

Golden Pudding 

Put a quarter of a pound of dried bread crumbs into a 
basin with one quarter pound of very finely chopped suet; 
add a quarter of a pound of peach marmalade and a quarter 
of a pound of sugar, and when it has been well stirred to- 
gether, add four well beaten eggs. Put the pudding into a 



4i8 Desserts 

well buttered mold, tie it down with a floured cloth and boil 
for two hours. Any good pudding sauce that is preferred 
may be used with this pudding. 

John Bull's Own Pudding 

Chop one pound of suet fine, wash and dry one pound of 
currants, stone one pound of raisins and free the stalks from 
one pound of large layer table raisins; one pound of sugar, 
one pound of chopped candied peel, one teaspoon of salt 
and one of mixed spice, half a pound of bread crumbs, and a 
half pound of flour, mix together and add eight well beaten 
eggs to which a cup of brandy has been already added, 
pour over the mixture, and stir for twenty-five minutes until 
all of the ingredients are thoroughly blended. Butter a 
pudding mold and three quarters fill it with the mixture, 
cover very tightly so no water can get in, then boil for 
thirteen hours. When cold the pudding may be removed 
from the mold, wrapped in a brandied cloth, and set away 
until it is needed, then return it to the mold, cover tight, and 
boil one hour and it will be ready to serve ; pour over a wine- 
glass of brandy, garnish with holly, and send it to the table 
on fire. Brandy sauce goes with it. 

Military Pudding and Lemon Sauce 

Military pudding may be made in one large pudding or in 
individual puddings. Chop finely one half pound of suet, 
mix with a half pound of bread crumbs, half a pound of moist 
sugar; the juice of one large lemon and the grated rind. 
Stir the ingredients well, pour into buttered cups, bake a 
half hour and turn out into dishes, spread a meringue over 
the top, return it to the oven one minute to brown, and serve 
with lemon sauce. 

A good recipe for the lemon sauce is three quarters of a 
cup of sugar, creamed with one half cup of butter, to which 
add one egg beaten lightly, the juice of one lemon, a little 
grated peel and nutmeg. Beat well; then add one half 



Desserts 419 

cup of boiling water, set over the teakettle, which must be 
kept boiling until the sauce is very hot, thoroughly smooth 
and melted but not boiled. 

Marlborough Pudding 

Beat a quarter pound of butter to a cream with a quarter 
pound of powdered sugar. Add four beaten eggs; then 
line a dish with good pie crust, spread a layer of jam in the 
bottom, then pour over the mixture, and bake the pudding 
for a half hour in medium oven. 

Meringue Pudding 

Beat to a stiff froth the whites of three fresh eggs, with 
one pound of sugar. Add the juice and grated rind of one 
lemon. Put a layer of sponge cake in the bottom of a 
glass dish, then a layer of the meringue, and repeat the 
layers until the meringue is used up. Dot the surface with 
candied cherries and chill well before serving. 

Baked Orange Pudding 

Roll six ounces of stale sponge cake into fine crumbs 
and pour over them one pint of boiling milk. Grate the 
rind of two oranges and squeeze the juice of six over a half 
pound of sugar. Beat six eggs and stir them into the mix- 
ture. Sweeten it to taste and pour into a deep pie dish 
lined with puff paste. Bake for half an hour, sift with 
powdered sugar, and serve. 

Orange Batter Pudding 

' Make a batter pudding of four eggs, one pint of milk, 
one and a half ounces of sugar, and three tablespoons of 
flour. Put the batter in a well buttered basin, tie it down, 
and boil one hour ; when done put on a platter, turn a jar of 
orange marmalade over the top, and serve with whipped 
cream. 



420 Desserts 

Peach Pudding 

Make a batter of one half cup of sugar, three tablespoons 
of melted butter, one beaten egg, one cup of milk, one pint 
of flour, and one and a half teaspoons of baking powder. 
Add to this a cup of finely cut peaches, bake in a loaf, and 
serve with Rocky Mountain sauce, made with a cup of 
sugar, three quarters of a cup of butter worked to a cream, 
one beaten egg, and a generous grating of nutmeg. Melt 
over a teakettle, and before serving add a wineglass of good 
brandy, stirring thoroughly, so that it is well blended. 

Pilgrim Pudding 

Peel and chop six tart apples, add six ounces of bread 
crumbs and six ounces of sugar, the grated peel of half a 
lemon, half teaspoon of salt, one glass of brandy, and a 
grating of nutmeg. Steam in a well buttered mold for 
three hours and serve with rich wine sauce. 

Popcorn Pudding 

Dissolve one and a half ounces of powdered gelatine in 
two cups of hot water, then add one cup of sugar, two cups 
of milk, one cupful of chopped popcorn, and cook for a few 
minutes. Cool and add the strained juice of three oranges, 
one gill of cream, and the whites of three eggs, beaten stiff. 
Beat all together until cool and then pour into a wet mold. 
Turn out and serve with whipped cream to which have been 
added a dozen dry powdered macaroons, a teaspoon of 
vanilla and a tablespoon of powdered sugar. 

Queen of Puddings 

One half pint of milk, one ounce of butter, one half pint 
of bread crumbs, one lemon, two eggs, two ounces of sugar, 
two or three tablespoons jam. 

Boil the milk with the butter and pour it over the bread 



Desserts 421 

crumbs; let it soak for a few minutes, then add yolks of two 
eggs, the grated rind of a lemon, and the sugar. Pour into a 
buttered pie dish and bake till set. Take it out of the oven, 
spread it with jam, beat whites of eggs to a stiff froth, 
spread over the top, and bake a pale brown. Sprinkle with 
sugar. 

Boiled Raisin Pudding 

Chop a half a pound of beef suet fine with a pound of 
stoned large raisins; add them to a pound of flour and a 
half teaspoon of salt ; mix well and add enough milk to make 
a rather stiff dough. Place the mixture in a well floured 
pudding bag, plunge into boiling water, and boil four hours. 
Serve with brandy sauce or a Rocky Mountain sauce made 
quite sweet. 

Rhubarb Pudding 

Stew one and one half dozen stalks of rhubarb and a cup 
of brown sugar in a double boiler until tender. Drain and 
mash and mix with one pint of boiled rice, press into cups 
or one large mold, and set away to cool. Serve with 
whipped cream. 

Rice Pudding 

Take a cup and a half of boiled rice, add to it three well 
beaten eggs, a cup of cream, a cup of sugar, a gill of melted 
butter, and a half cup of sweet milk. Turn into a well 
buttered baking dish and see that it is three quarters full 
only. Bake until done, and when slightly cool spread with 
a layer of strawberry jam, covering that with a deep me- 
ringue, and return the dish to the oven for a minute or two 
so as to brown the top lightly. This may be served hot as 
it comes from the oven or chilled with cream. It makes 
a most delicious dessert and is much better than the usual 
rice pudding. 



422 Desserts 

Roly-Poly Mince Pudding 

Allow six ounces of beef suet, skinned, shredded, and 
chopped fine to a pound of flour and a half pint of water; 
add a saltspoon of salt and work to a smooth paste, roll 
out one inch thick, and spread with good mincemeat well 
seasoned; roll and pinch the ends together, lay in a floured 
cloth, put into boiling water, and boil two hours. Drain 
and serve with brandy sauce. 

Baked Indian Suet Pudding 

Warm three pints of sweet milk and when hot stir in 
three large handfuls of yellow cornmeal ; stir briskly until it 
thickens, then set aside to cool. When cool add three eggs, 
one quarter pound of finely chopped suet, four tablespoons 
of sugar, one cup of molasses, one pound of raisins, stoned, 
and a pinch of salt. Bake for two and a half to three hours 
and serve hot, though many like the pudding cold as well. 

West Indian Pudding 

Break 'six small sponge cakes in pieces, place them in the 
bottom of a pudding dish, and pour over them one pint of 
cream which has been sweetened with three quarters of a 
cup of sugar and brought to the boiling point. Cover 
the dish and let it stand until the cream has been soaked 
up by the cake. Beat eight eggs thoroughly and, when 
the cream is soaked up, stir them in. Butter a pudding 
mold and arrange around the sides pieces of thinly sliced 
preserved ginger; pour the pudding carefully in the center, 
adding a teaspoon of vanilla flavoring and a grating of 
nutmeg. Tie down with a floured cloth and steam or boil 
slowly for an hour and a half. When done, serve with a 
cup of heated ginger syrup turned over. This makes a very 
dainty and delicious pudding, not as heavy or hearty as a 
baked pudding. 



Desserts 423 

PUDDING SAUCES 

Rocky Mountain Sauce 

Take one cup of sugar, three quarters of a cup of butter; 
beat them to a cream ; add one beaten egg, the grating of a 
quarter of a nutmeg, and a half gill of brandy, or a gill of 
sherry wine. Beat thoroughly and set in a bowl over the 
teakettle until all is smoothly melted. Serve with plum 
pudding, or any other heavy fruit pudding. 

Hard Sauce 

To one cup of powdered sugar use a half cup of butter, 
work together very smooth; add a small grating of nut- 
meg, a teaspoon of vanilla flavoring, and set aside to chill. 
Serve with any of the baked or fruit puddings. 

Pastal Sauce 

Pastal sauce is a smooth yellow custard made thin 
enough to pour, and the top is covered with candied rose 
and mint leaves, violets and pinks, while chopped through 
the sauce are raisins, angelica, citron, and orange peel. It 
is very decorative over a dark fruit pudding or over an 
angel charlotte. 

Duchess Sauce 

Boil two tablespoons of grated chocolate in a half pint of 
milk for five minutes; strain on two well beaten egg yolks 
that have been beaten with a half gill of cream and half a 
cup of sugar. Strain, return to the fire, and stir until it 
reaches the thickness of cold honey. Add a teaspoon of 
vanilla flavoring and it is ready to serve. 

Foamy Sauce 

Whip the white of one egg and a half cup of powdered 
sugar to a stiff froth; add one cup of whipped cream, mix 



424 Desserts 

lightly together, and flavor with one tablespoon of sherry. 
Set aside to chiU. 

Caramel Sauce 

Put one and a half cups of brown sugar, three ounces of 
grated chocolate, and a half cup of cream into a saucepan; 
cook over hot water until all is smooth, then allow it to boil 
until a drop forms a jellyHke ball when dropped into cold 
water. Add a teaspoon of vanilla flavoring and it is ready 
to serve. 

Lemon Sauce 

Boil one cup of sugar and one cup of water together until 
a drop forms a soft ball when dropped into cold water. 
Remove from the fire, add the juice of a lemon, and serve. 

SHORTCAKES 

Shortcake a la Panchard 

Beat six ounces of butter with ten ounces of sugar to a 
cream, then add three eggs, one at a time, and two gills 
of milk; when thoroughly mixed add two teaspoons of 
vanilla, then sift in one pound of flour with two teaspoons 
of baking powder. Cream all together and fill three shallow 
buttered and Hghtly floured jelly cake tins full, and when 
baked turn out to cool. When ready to lay up, cover each 
layer with a little vanilla pastry cream, then a layer of finely 
cut ripe peaches sifted with sugar, then add another layer 
of cake, and so on until finished, covering the top with 
sweetened whipped cream. 

Banana Shortcake 

Slice eight bananas into a bowl, turn over them a pint of 
cold vanilla syrup, and let stand while the cake is cooking. 
Take one pint of flour, two teaspoons of baking powder. 



Desserts 425 

half teaspoon of salt, a quarter cup of butter, and enough 
milk to make a stiff dough. Mix the dry ingredients to- 
gether, work in the butter with the hand, and add the milk 
slowly. Put onto the molding board, divide in half, 
divide each half again, then roll out or pat out the pieces 
until they fit shallow buttered jelly cake tins, place one piece 
in the tin, then butter the top of the dough and lay a sec- 
ond piece on top, so that the four bake in two pans. When 
done the cakes may be readily split and the filling be placed 
between them after the cakes have been buttered. Turn 
a little extra vanilla syrup over the top so that all edges are 
moistened, then heap with whipped cream and serve. 

Apricot Shortcake 

Pare and halve four pounds of apricots, put them in 
a deep dish with three cups of sugar and the juice of a 
lemon. Let stand two hours, stirring occasionally. Set in 
the sun or a warm place. Make an old-fashioned biscuit 
cake, and when done split and .butter freely. Drain the 
apricots and fill the cake with them; then put on the top 
layer of crust and heap with the fruit. Pour over it a 
generous quantity of the fruit juice, but save a pitcherful 
to turn over each portion as served. Plain cream may be 
served with the shortcake, if desired. 

Rhubarb Shortcake 

For the rhubarb shortcake biscuit dough will be found 
the best. Use half a pound of flour, half a teaspoon of 
salt, two of baking powder, two tablespoons of !ard, one 
of butter, and a half pint of milk ; mix the butter and lard 
with the dry ingredients, slowly add the milk, and when 
thoroughly mixed divide in half, smoothing each into a well 
buttered tin. Bake for twelve to fifteen minutes in a quick 
oven, then remove, split, butter, and fill with a rich 
rhubarb stew which is quite spicy and sweet. Garnish the 
top with whipped cream and a few maraschino cherries. 



426 Desserts 

Jam Shortcake 

Make a biscuit dough shortcake and when baked split 
the layers and butter them thickly. Put in a thick layer 
of apricot jam, and spread another layer on top. Have 
ready melted a tumbler of apricot jelly, turn over all, and 
heap the top of the cake with whipped cream. 

Blueberry Shortcake 

For blueberry shortcake make the shortcake a little 
richer than biscuit dough, and when done split it into layers, 
fill each layer with the berries that have been mashed up in 
sugar, and when ready to serve add a fluff of whipped 
cream over the top. 

Orange Shortcake 

Cut in pieces ten oranges, removing seeds and as much of 
the white skin as possible. Add to them two cups of sugar, 
juice of two lemons, and one cup of grated pineapple. Let 
stand and chill. Make a good shortcake dough — bread 
dough is preferable — and bake in two shallow pans. When 
done split, butter generously, fill with the orange mixture, 
draining off some of the juice. This may be made into two 
cakes on the platter, or one high one of four layers. Pour 
over the cakes enough of the juice to moisten them suffi- 
ciently ; serve the rest in a small tureen so that it may be 
turned over each portion. 

Strawberry Shortcake 

Wash and top two quarts of fresh ripe strawberries ; if the 
berries are large cut them in half and add to them two cups of 
sugar. Set aside and let stand three or four hours, stirring 
often. Make the shortcake of biscuit dough and when done 
split it in half and butter generously. Put in the berries 
and put them also over the top. Keep a cup of the juice 



Desserts 427 

to serve in a pitcher with the shortcake. If there is Httle 
juice left after laying up the cake take a cup of sugar, melt 
it with a half cup of water, let it cook three minutes, and add 
a little of the remaining juice to it and serve with the cake. 

Austrian Apple Strudel 

Mix one pint of flour with a half cup of water, add four 
ounces of butter, a pinch of salt, and three eggs. Mix until 
smooth and roll the dough out on a floured board, as thin 
as possible. Have ready two cups of chopped apples, a cup 
of seeded raisins, a cup of sugar, and a teaspoon each of 
cinnamon and cloves and a grating of nutmeg mixed to- 
gether. Spread the dough lightly with some fresh butter, 
and sprinkle the fruit mixture over it. Roll the strudel, 
butter it over the outside, and bake. 

Poached Apricots 

Poached apricots are made by placing halves of very 
ripe, fresh fruit, or firm preserved fruit, on pieces of sponge 
cake, surrounding them with whipped cream to make them 
look like poached eggs. Slightly sweeten the cream and 
add a tiny scraping of the soft inside of vanilla bean for 
flavoring and put a spoonful of the apricot juice over the 
sponge cake. 

Apple Dumplings 

Mix one quart of flour with a teaspoon and a half of bak- 
ing powder and a saltspoon of salt. Add a large tablespoon 
of butter and lard mixed, and enough sweet milk to make a 
soft dough. Roll out rather thick, cut into squares, in 
which a pared and quartered apple is placed, with sugar 
and a pinch of cinnamon sprinkled over it. Pinch the edges 
together, place in a deep pan with a lump of butter on each, 
and sprinkle with sugar and cinnamon. Fill the pan with 
boiling water, leaving only the top of the dumplings exposed, 
and bake forty-five minutes. Serve with hard sauce. 



428 Desserts 

TARTS AND SWEET FRITTERS 

Banana and Damson Tart 

Line a deep pie dish with thin paste. On it arrange a 
layer of sliced bananas (eight are used, sHced lengthwise). 
Next a mixture of two tablespoons of sugar, a little grated 
lemon peel, and three dessertspoons of rum is sprinkled 
over the bananas. The dish is filled up with preserved 
damsons, with a little of their juice, and the whole is cov- 
ered with a light, short crust. Bake three quarters of an 
hour in an even oven. The tart may be served hot or 
cold, according to taste, with a sauce composed of the yolk 
of one egg mixed with twice its weight of cream, one 
tablespoon of rum, and a wineglass of the plum syrup for 
sweetening. 

Frangipane Tart 

Mix half an ounce of flour with a little milk. Simmer a 
scant pint of milk with two bay leaves, a little lemon rind, 
and a pinch of grated nutmeg for about fifteen minutes. 
Strain this into the flour thickening. Add three ounces 
of butter, the same weight of sugar, eight eggs, beaten 
lightly. Allow the mixture to simmer until thick, but be 
careful that it does not boil. Line patty tins with puff 
paste and fill with the mixture after it has become cold. 
Bake twenty-five minutes in a moderate oven. 

Maids of Honor 

Take one cup of sweet milk and one cup of sour milk, put 
in a double boiler over boiling water and let stand long 
enough to set the curd. When set, strain off the milk and 
rub the curd through a sieve. Add to it a tablespoon of 
melted butter, a cup of sugar, yolks of four eggs, juice of one 
lemon, and a little of the grated peel. Have ready tartlet 
pans, lined with puff paste crimped at the edges; after 
beating the mixture, pour it into the tarts and bake. 



Desserts 429 

Peach Pufflets 

Mix one pint of flour, a pinch of salt, and one and a half 
teaspoons of baking powder, with enough milk to make a 
soft batter. Put into well greased little cups a spoon 
of batter and a spoon of cut-up peaches, then another of bat- 
ter; steam in steamer twenty minutes and serve with hard 
or good brandy sauce. 

Fanchonettes 

Fanchonettes are made Hke the old-fashioned custard pie, 
only they are the size of tarts. Prepare the crust in little 
patty pans and fill with a custard made of four yolks of 
eggs, two ounces of butter, two tablespoons of sugar, two 
beaten whites of eggs, three dessertspoons of flour, and three 
quarters of a pint of milk. Blend smoothly and bring 
to boiling point in a granite saucepan, then fill the tarts 
and bake in a medium oven. When done whip the other 
two whites of eggs with two tablespoons of sugar for a 
meringue and let it lightly brown in the oven. When cold 
serve on a doily garnished with strips of angelica. 

Gooseberry Tart 

Line the tartlet pans with a good puff paste. With a 
pair of kitchen scissors top and tail one pint and a half of 
fresh gooseberries; fill the tartlet pans with the berries, 
piled high and covered with sugar. Lattice the top with 
crust and bake. Serve with a little sifted sugar^^over the top 
and a pitcher of sweet cream. 

WMte Grape Tart 

Line ramekin dishes with rich puff paste and bake in a 
brisk oven for about ten minutes. Let the paste cool, then 
fill with white grapes. Take six ounces of icing sugar, mix 
with one and a half tablespoons of water and a few drops of 
vanilla essence. Let cook for a few minutes and use while 
hot to glace over the grapes. 



430 Desserts 

Marron Tart 

Make the tartlets of good puff paste, and prepare the 
following mixture for a filling : One sweet pineapple, diced ; a 
small bottle of preserved marrons cut in small pieces, and 
three tablespoons of ginger syrup. Fill the tartlets with 
this mixture, spreading a teaspoon of currant jelly on top 
of each, and bake a delicate brown. When ready to serve 
put a teaspoon of whipped cream on top of each tartlet 
with a half marron in the center. 

Polish Tarts 

Roll the puff paste thin and cut it into two-and-a-half- 
inch squares. Brush with the white of egg and turn down 
the points so that they meet in the middle. Sift a little 
sugar over them and bake fifteen minutes in a quick oven. 
When they are done fill the center with jam. 

Rhubarb Fritters 

Wipe six or eight sticks of rhubarb, and cut them into 
two-inch pieces. Make a batter with four ounces of sifted 
flour, a pinch of salt, a gill of milk, and the whites of two 
eggs beaten stiff. Let this stand for about an hour; dip 
the pieces of rhubarb in the batter, so that each piece is 
well covered; drop them into hot fat, or clarified drippings, 
and fry till they are a golden brown. Drain the fritters on 
a cloth or paper, dredge them with powdered sugar, place on 
a hot dish, and serve them very hot. If extreme sweetness 
is desired, the rhubarb can be parboiled in a syrup and 
drained before being fried. 

JELLIED DESSERTS 
Apricot Brandy Jelly 

Put one pound of sugar and one and a half pints of water 
in a stewpan to boil, skim it until it is clear. Simmer 



Desserts 431 

two ounces of gelatine in a half pint of water and skim 
that carefully. Put together and add the juice of two lemons 
and bring to the boiling point. Add a half pint scant 
measure of apricot brandy, let it stay covered and melt 
together, then strain into a mold and put upon the ice. 
When ready to serve dip the mold into hot water, 
loosen the edges with a knife and slip it onto the plate. 
It is usually served with ice cream, though whipped cream 
may be used, with a little preserved ginger on the side. 

Burgundy Cream 

Take one pound of strawberries, a half a pound of sugar, 
the juice of one lemon, a half glass of white wine, and 
a half ounce of powdered gelatine dissolved in a little 
water. Warm and melt all well together, then add a pint 
of whipped cream. Pour into a mold and set away to jell. 

Jellied Dates 

Cut half a pound of dates in halves and remove their 
stones; put them in a saucepan with one and a half cups 
of water and three tablespoons of sugar and cook them 
slowly until they are soft. Then add a heaping tablespoon 
of powdered gelatine which has been melted in the juice of 
an orange, a tablespoon of vanilla flavoring, and a few 
drops of green coloring. After stirring all together, pour 
into a wet ring mold. When chilled and ready to turn out, 
place on a platter and fill the center with whipped cream 
which has been slightly sweetened and to which a quarter 
cup of chopped pecan nuts has been added. 

Fruit Jelly 

Dissolve one package of gelatine in one half cup of cold 
water. Add one pint of boiling water, one cup of sugar, 
juice of two lemons, and one half pint of grape juice. Cool 
and add one cup of finely chopped walnuts, one cup of 



432 Desserts 

Malaga grapes, halved and seeded, and one half cup of 
maraschino cherries. Chill and serve with sweetened 
whipped cream, 

Macedoine of Fruits with Jelly 

Into a mold that has been on ice cut some firm fruit in 
small pieces and sprinkle it hghtly with powdered sugar. 
Make an ordinary jelly flavored with wine, and when it is 
cold, but just beginning to stiffen, fill the mold and set 
away to harden. When ready to serve turn onto a platter 
and cover with whipped cream. Serve pound cake with it. 

Orange Cream 

Squeeze the juice of six oranges and one lemon into a 
saucepan with one and a half ounces of gelatine and sufficient 
water to make in all a pint and a half. Rub sugar on the 
orange and lemon rinds and add to the mixture. Simmer 
all together for about ten minutes, then strain through a 
muslin bag and beat a half pint of good cream with it. 
Wet a mold and pour in the cream to set. Put on ice 
until ready to serve. Whipped cream may be used if 
desired with it. 

Raspberry Bavarian Cream 

Soak half a package of gelatine for two hours in half a 
cupful of water. In the meantime mash a quart of rasp- 
berries with a cupful of sugar and let them stand an hour. 
Whip a pint of cream to a stiff froth. Pour half a cupful of 
boiling water on the gelatine and strain it onto the juice. 
Put the liquid in a saucepan in a pan of water with ice in it. 
Beat the liquid until it is stiff as custard; stir in a pint of 
whipped cream. Put into the icebox to chill and serve 
with cream, 

Russian Cream 

Beat the yolks of four eggs with one cup of sugar, then add 
one quart of milk and cook like a custard. Take from the 



Desserts 433 

stove when slightly thickened and add the beaten whites of 
the eggs, stir well together for a few moments, then add a 
half box of gelatine dissolved in one pint of warm water and 
the strained juice of a lemon. Pour into a wet mold and 
set away to harden. Served with whipped cream, this is a 
very pretty dessert, for if it is made just right, the jelly 
forms the top layer, when turned out, with the spongy 
cream at the bottom. Be sure that the mold is well wet 
before the mixture is turned into it, so that the cream will 
turn out perfectly when it is chilled. 

Spanish Cream 

Soak one half box gelatine in one quart of milk for one 
hour. Then put on the fire and stir until it begins to 
thicken. Add the yolks of three well beaten eggs and a cup 
of sugar. When it comes to boiling point strain into a mold 
and flavor with vanilla. Beat the whites with three table- 
spoons of sugar, flavor with vanilla, and use as a sauce when 
the cream is ready to serve. 

Strawberry Cream 

Soak one and one half tablespoons of granulated gelatine 
in one fourth cup cold water and dissolve in one third cup 
boiling water. Add one cup syrup made from fresh straw- 
berries and more sugar if not sweet enough. Set bowl con- 
taining mixture in pan of iced water and stir until mixture 
begins to thicken; then fold in cream. 

Tutti Frutti Jelly 

Make a regular lemon jelly by dissolving three heaping 
tablespoons of gelatine in one and a half cups of warm water, 
and adding two cups of sugar, one gill of lemon juice, a little 
grated lemon peel, three cloves, one inch of cinnamon, and 
one teaspoon of coriander seeds. Beat all together, allow 
them to come to boiling point, and then let stand for five 
28 



434 Desserts 

minutes and strain carefully. Have ready three medium 
sized peaches thinly sliced, one banana thinly sliced, a half 
cup of chopped and seeded raisins, a half cup of candied 
cherries, chopped with two strips of angelica, and one sUce of 
candied pineapple. When the jelly is cool stir the fruit into 
it, turn all into a wet mold, and set away to chill. Serve 
very cold with plain cream. 

Isinglass, gelatine leaves, and agar-agar may be used in 
place of gelatine powder if desired; the latter may be 
procured at any drug store and is used in the same way 
as the gelatine. 

FRUIT DESSERTS 

Apple Meringues 

Stew two pounds of apples that have been quartered, 
pared, and seeded with four ounces of sugar until tender. 
Beat the yolks of six eggs with two ounces of sugar and pour 
over them one pint of boiling hot milk. Put this custard into 
a saucepan and cook until it is as thick as cornstarch pud- 
ding, drain the apples and arrange them in a dish, pour the 
custard over them, beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth 
with a little powdered sugar, cover the custard with the 
meringue, and place in the oven until lightly browned. 
This pudding may be served hot or chilled with whipped 
cream, according to taste and season. 

Apple Snow 

Peel and grate one large sour apple, sprinkling it with a 
cup of powdered sugar as you grate to keep it from turning 
dark, break into it the whites of two eggs, and beat all for a 
half hour. Pour into a glass dish and pour a rich custard 
around it, chill and serve. 

Ginger Apples 

Wash and bruise one and a half ounces of ginger root, put 
it into a small jar, and cover it with a quarter of a pint of 



Desserts 435 

good whiskey; let it stand three days. Add to it the juice 
of two big lemons and two pounds of sugar, pare, core, and 
slice into it three pounds of apples, and simmer all together 
until the apples are transparent but not broken. Remove 
the apples and strain the juice over them. Serve cold with 
cake and garnish with candied lemon peel. 

Marmalade au Creme 

A pretty apple dessert dish is made by turning a small 
amount of apple marmalade into a mold wet with cold 
water. When set and chilled, place on a deep plate, sprinkle 
thickly with powdered pecan nuts, turn a rich, cold custard 
around it, and heap whipped cream on top. 

Blackberry Beaumont 

Pick over and wash carefully one and a half pounds of 
blackberries and put them in a saucepan with a pound and a 
half of cored, peeled, and sliced cooking apples, one and a 
half cups of sugar, and one gill of water. Cool slowly until 
soft, then rub through a sieve. This should make about one 
and a half cups of the pulp. Dissolve one heaping table- 
spoon of gelatine in a gill of hot water, and add to the 
mixture; stir all together, then pour into a wet mold and 
allow it to set. Serve with sweetened whipped cream and 
garnish with a few of the ripe blackberries. 

Banana Souffle 

Slice six ripe bananas into a glass dish, have ready a 
good rich boiled custard not too thick and flavored with 
lemon and turn over the bananas, beat stiff three whites of 
egg with a little powdered sugar and flavor it with lemon 
juice, then drop it by spoonfuls over the top, put a cherry 
on each little white mound, chill, and serve. 

Banana Omelet 

To eight fresh eggs add a gill of cream, two saltspoons of 
white pepper, one of salt, and a dash of sugar. Beat with a 



436 Desserts 

silver fork for two minutes. Slice and fry to delicate 
brown two bananas in melted butter, tossing them lightly. 
When finished, turn the eggs into the pan over the bananas, 
beat for two minutes, then let them rest half a minute to set. 
Fold the sides of the center, let cook a minute or two, but 
do not burn. Turn onto a hot plate, sprinkle with pow- 
dered sugar, and garnish with strips of angelica and mara- 
schino cherries. 

Cherry Puffs 

Mix well one pint of flour with one and a half teaspoons 
of baking powder and a generous pinch of salt ; make into a 
soft batter with milk. Butter well as many little cups 
as are needed and in the bottom of each place a tablespoon 
of pitted cherries that have been dusted with sugar, then a 
tablespoon of the batter, another of the cherries and another 
of the batter. Set the cups in a steamer and steam twenty 
minutes; turn out and serve with a hot vanilla pudding 
sauce. 

Date Souffle 

For a date souffl6 take one pound of stoned and chopped 
dates, moisten with a little thin sugar syrup to which a 
little sherry and the stiffly beaten whites of five eggs 
have been added; bake in a hot oven. When it puffs up 
a delicate brown it is done. Serve at once with whipped 
cream. 

Dainty Dates 

Remove the seed from the date, place an almond in its 
place, roll in powdered sugar, lay in a glass dish, and cover 
with whipped cream. 

Figs in Honey 

Soak half a pound of cleanly washed, whole figs until they 
are soft, then stew them in a cup of honey and a cup of 



Desserts 437 

water until they are very tender. They may be served hot, 
with just a little of the juice, or they may be drained, 
cooled, and served with a little cream. 

Dried peaches, apricots, and apples may be soaked, then 
stewed and served with boiled custard or rennet custard, 
or they may be put through a puree sieve after stewing and 
made into a fruit puree by adding to them a little hot 
milk or cream. 

Supreme of Fruits 

Cut into small pieces the following fruits : Pears, peaches, 
canteloupe, a few strawberries and red raspberries. Sweeten 
to taste and add a small glass of pineapple juice. Gar- 
nish with strips of angelica and a few frosted mint leaves, 
and serve very cold. 

Orange Souffle 

Peel and slice eight oranges. Place in a deep dish and 
sprinkle sugar between each layer. Make a rich, soft 
custard, and when cool, pour over the oranges. Whip 
the whites of three eggs stiff with three tablespoons of 
powdered sugar and spread over the top of the custard. 
Put in a very hot oven for two minutes to brown, then 
chill thoroughly. 

Orange Chocolate Quarters 

Peel and break into segments six sweet oranges, removing 
the white skin and being careful not to break the skin 
so that the juice runs. Moisten a half cake of sweet choco- 
late and three quarters of a cup of sugar with a half cup of 
water and boil three minutes. Then have ready the beaten 
whites of two eggs. Pour the mixture on the eggs and beat 
until thick and cool. Dip the orange quarters into it and 
lay them on wax paper to drain and glaze. Serve with ice 
cream or fancy cake. 



438 Desserts 

Peach Bavaroise 

Cut eight fine large peaches in half, peel, and remove their 
stones. Cook the halves carefully in a pint of vanilla 
syrup. When done, drain and place them on a wire sieve 
to cool. Boil a quarter pint of milk and add to it the 
well beaten yolks of two eggs and let it cook just enough 
to bind the eggs; then add four leaves of gelatine which 
have been soaked in cold water, two tablespoons of sugar and 
when all is melted strain into a bowl and set away to chill. 
Whip one half pint of heavy cream and when the custard 
is cold cover it with one half of the whipped cream. Dice 
a slice of preserved pineapple and cut a few candied cherries 
and strew over the top. When chilled arrange the peaches 
on top, leaving a space in the center in which to pile the 
remainder of the whipped cream. 

Baked Pears 

Fill a buttered baking dish with pared and quartered 
ripe pears, arrange with layers of stale cake crumbs rolled 
fine, sprinkle with a half cup of sugar, and add a cup of 
strained honey and a wingelass of brandy. Bake a delicate 
brown, remove from the oven and spread a meringue on 
top and return to the oven for a minute or two to brown ; 
cool, chill, and serve with whipped cream. 

Princess Pear 

Cut a large, ripe pear in quarters, remove seeds and core, 
and stuff with brandied cherries. Place on white lettuce 
leaves or surround with whipped cream. Garnish with 
berries. 

Pineapple Whip 

For the pineapple whip take one ripe pineapple, pare, 
slice, and remove from the center of each slice the hard 



Desserts 439 

core. Chop or cut coarsely, and add to it a tablespoon 
of sugar, the juice squeezed from the hard centers, and 
one cup of marshmallow whip. Mix together, and add 
three tablespoons of sherry and half a cup of whipped cream. 
The mixture may be turned over squares of plain cake or 
used with ice cream, or over berries, or alone. It is a 
very dainty summer dessert. 

Prune Whip 

Stew one pound of large prunes until they are tender. 
Drain them and when slightly cool remove the pits, and 
chop the pulp fine. Add a little sugar and enough whipped 
cream to beat the pulp very light with a silver fork. Chill, 
heap in a parfait glass, and garnish with a cherry. 

Baked Quinces 

Select enough quinces to fill a baking dish; pare, core, 
and arrange them in the dish, fill their centers with honey 
and sprinkle them with sugar, then fill the dish with cold 
water and bake them in the oven until they are tender when 
tried with a straw and are a good red color. Remove from 
the pan, drain, and when cold remove to a fancy plate; chill 
and when ready to serve cover with whipped cream; sprinkle 
the top with powdered macaroons and dot with red cherries. 

Raspberries Exquisite 

Wash two baskets of raspberries, sugar them, and turn 
over them a wineglass of Curagoa, and then place in the 
cooler. Pass through the puree sieve another basket 
of berries, adding sugar and sweetened whipped cream. 
Drain the juice from the other berries, place in a tall glass 
of cracked ice, pour over the cream mixture, and serve very 
cold. 



44^ Desserts 

ATTRACTIVE WAYS TO SERVE MELONS 

Cantaloupe Supreme 

The "cantaloupe supreme" is made by choosing slender 
oval cantaloupes and cutting the melon into points with a 
sharp knife before pulling it apart. Take out the seeds. Then 
carefully scoop the melon flesh out with a small potato scoop, 
add a few segments of grapefruit that has been chilled 
like the melon, sprinkle with a little powdered sugar, a 
little grating of nutmeg, and a dash of apricot brandy, 
return to the shells and serve on individual plates, with 
fruit fork at the side. 

Cantaloupe Baskets 

Cut the melon basket fashion and take out flesh with ball 
cutter. Chill the balls, and just before serving turn a little 
apricot brandy over each. A few sliced peaches sweetened 
and folded in a little whipped cream may be used as a gar- 
nish over the top. 

Cassaba Melon 

Chill the melon and then cut it in half. Scoop out the 
flesh in balls with a melon scoop and heap them back in the 
shell, dusting them with powdered sugar and two table- 
spoons of sherry mixed with a teaspoon of ginger syrup. 
Serve very cold. 

Watermelon 

The watermelon after being thoroughly chilled may be 
cut apart with points, then cut down but not separated 
like a lotus blossom if it is to be served plain at table. Or 
it may be cut basket fashion with a high handle. The 
fruit is all taken out by spoonfuls, the seeds removed, and 
the basket is then filled half full of shaven ice with the 
melon on top and the melon put on the table, with a big 



Desserts 441 

pink bow tied to the handle. This is very decorative for a 
centerpiece at a melon feast. 

Watermelon Squares 

Cut the melon into thick squares, free from seeds, and 
hollow them out with a teaspoon. Fill each with ice- 
cream. Take fresh macaroons, smear their fiat surfaces 
with a little maple syrup, and stick them around the square 
sides of the melon, two on each side, or one on a side if they 
are large. 

Watermelon Sandwiches 

These are made by cutting the ripe, well chilled melon 
lengthways in one-inch slices. Remove the seeds and cut 
into four-inch squares. Split these if necessary and spread 
thickly between the slices with vanilla French ice cream and 
on top of each spread pistachio cream. Serve as quickly as 
they are prepared with an ice cream fork and sweet wafers. 

Watermelon Jelly 

Take enough of watermelon pulp to rub through a 
sieve and make about three cupfuls. Add enough cold 
water to it to make one quart altogether. Put it into a 
saucepan, add three tablespoons of gelatine mixed in a little 
cold water, three ounces of sugar, the rind of one lemon, 
three cloves and one bay leaf, and the whites and shells of 
two eggs. Beat over the fire until it comes to a boiling 
point. Keep it there for three minutes, then strain, cool, 
and turn into a wet mold. When set turn onto a platter, 
heap with whipped cream which has had a little sugar and a 
few chopped nuts mixed with it. Cantaloupe jelly may be 
made in the same way, only it may be turned into its own 
hollowed shells to harden. 

If the water melon is to be served plain for dessert it is 
very good to plug it and turn into it two bottles of imported 



442 Desserts 

ginger ale, chill it, and when ready to serve cut in strips 
piled log-cabin fashion on the plates to be eaten with the 
fingers instead of a fork. 

PIES 

In making pie crust that known as puflf paste will be 
found the most diflficult to make, for it requires practice 
and skill to bring it to that point of flaky tenderness and 
lightness for which it is famed. If properly made the puff 
paste will rise in the oven and bake in light flaky layers 
without greasiness. 

The beginner must learn to handle it lightly and as little 
as possible in rolling and turning, and it should also be 
placed in the ice-box for several hours after it is made before 
baking. 

Pastry flour is best for pie crusts and there are several 
good brands to be had. This flour is lighter in texture 
than the bread flours. 

Puff Paste 

Take three cups of flour that has been sifted seven times 
and add to it a saltspoon of salt, one cup of butter, and the 
yolk of one egg. The paste must be made in a cool place. 
Place the butter and egg yolk in the center of the flour and 
begin to work in the center drawing in the flour from the 
outer ring. As it begins to take up the flour add slowly a 
little ice water, using in all about one cup. Work until the 
paste is smooth and fine, then place it in the ice-box for 
fifteen minutes. Put it back on the board and roll it the 
size of a dinner plate. Place on it one cup of butter and 
wrap over it the edges of dough, carefully covering it. 
Turn the dough over and roll very thin; then fold it square 
in three, roll out, and repeat twice more. Then place the 
dough in a tin over cracked ice and place another tin of 
cracked ice over it, allowing it to stand thus for five 
minutes between each rolling and folding. Then remove 



Desserts 443 

the paste to a cold dish and let it stand in the ice-box for 
several hours before making the pies. 

Plain Pie Crust 

Take three cups of sifted flour, sifted three times, and 
add to it a saltspoon of salt, a half teaspoon of good bak- 
ing powder, a half cup of butter, and a quarter cup of fresh 
lard; work the mixture to a paste, using a cup of iced water, 
or a cup of sweet cream. Roll the paste thin and it is ready 
for use. 

Hot Water Pie Crust 

This is a method introduced by the Domestic Science 
Department of a western college. The recipe calls for three 
cupfuls of sifted flour, one half teaspoon of salt, and one half 
teaspoon of baking powder sifted together. Put into the 
mixing bowl first a half cup of butter and one quarter cup of 
lard. Add to the shortening one half cup of boihng water 
and beat with a fork until all is creamy. Sift in the flour 
mixture slowly, beating it the while, and when all is mixed 
roll out the crust. This recipe makes crust enough for two 
pies. When half the crust is needed, wrap the remaining 
dough in wax paper and put it where it is very cold until 
dough for another pie is required. This is the quickest 
known method of pie making. 

There are many new substitutes for butter and lard, some 
of which can be highly recommended, but nothing has yet 
been found to excel pure sweet butter and pure lard. 
Therefore all the recipes herein given are made with the 
pure and well known ingredients. 

If the housekeeper wishes to try the new shortenings, 
she will find adequate directions supplied by the firms who 
put the products forward. 

A good way to use up leftover crust is to roll it out thin 
and shape it over well buttered layer tins turned upside 



444 Desserts 

down. This makes shells which, when filled with fresh 
fruit heaped with whipped cream, are good for a change. 

Puff Paste Rings 

Roll the puff paste to a quarter of an inch thickness 
and with a round fluted cutter make as many rings as are 
required. Roll the dough again and cut out the bottoms, 
brush with egg, and bake a delicate brown, when they are 
ready to serve sweets or vegetables in. 

Pastry Flowers 

Roll the paste out to a quarter of an inch thickness and 
cut the rings and bottoms as before; blanch and cut three 
ounces of almonds in half, stick them around the edge, 
brush with egg and dust with powdered sugar and bake; 
when done fill with red jam and lay with a strip of angelica 
between each almond, and they look quite like flowers. 
They are pretty to serve with afternoon tea. 

The hollow glass rolling pin to be filled with shaved 
ice for use in pastry making, while not new, is a very clever 
invention. 

The double Tolling pin has two handles, one at either end. 
It does double the work of the single pin and is easy to 
operate. 

Plain Apple Pie 

Pare and slice thin tart apples enough, carefully and 
thoroughly removing the cores, to fill the pie plate quite 
full. Add one cup of sugar, a saltspoon of grated nutmeg, 
and three quarters of a cup of iced water, or less if the pie 
plate is shallow. Dot a teaspoon of butter in little lumps 
over the top, put on the top crust, and bake in a medium 
oven until the crust is a delicate brown on top, about thirty 
minutes. 

This pie may be served plain with a square of American 



Desserts 445 

cheese, or with whipped cream, plain cream, or vanilla ice 
cream on top. 

A saltspoon of cinnamon may also be added to the flavor- 
ing of the pie if it is liked. 

Apple Sauce Pie 

Make a good, rich, stiff apple sauce; strain and beat it 
quite light, adding to it one stiffly beaten egg white and a 
teaspoon of melted butter. Fill the crust lined pie plate 
with it and bake until the top crust is a delicate brown. 

Old-Fashioned Apple Pie 

Line the buttered pie plate with good pie crust, then fill the 
pie with carefully pared, cored, and sliced Spitzenburg apples. 
Dust over them a half cup of sugar and dot with little lumps 
of butter. Put in a cup a tablespoon of flour, a half teaspoon 
of ground ginger, and three quarters of a cup of molasses. 
Stir until all is smooth, then turn into the pie, put on the top 
crust, and bake in a medium oven. If the pie is inclined to 
run over, increase the heat and cook it quickly. Serve 
with the pie squares of good rich dairy cheese. 

Apricot Pie 

Line a pie plate with a good puff paste; pare, stone, and 
halve enough apricots to fill the dish. Sprinkle with sugar, 
then add three quarters of a cup of syrup taken from a jar of 
Canton ginger, with a piece of the ginger finely chopped 
through it. Mix a tablespoon of flour with the syrup ; then 
pour all over the fruit. Put on the top crust and bake in a 
medium oven. Use a deep pie plate so the syrup will not 
run out in the oven. 

Banana Custard Pie 

Line a deep pie plate with good pie crust and dent the 
edge with the tines of a silver fork. Mash very fine two 



446 Desserts 

large ripe bananas, add to them one cup of sugar, one salt- 
spoon of salt, the juice of a large juicy lemon, and two 
beaten eggs. Beat all until very light, then turn into the 
crust and bake. A meringue may be added if desired, made 
of the whites of two eggs, two tablespoons of powdered sugar, 
and a teaspoon of lemon juice. 

Banana Mincemeat 

Chop fine one pound of boiled beef, add one cup of butter, 
one cup of molasses, one cup orange marmalade, one cup of 
rose jelly, one cup stoned raisins, the grated rind and juice 
of one lemon, a teaspoon of salt, a cup and a half of brown 
sugar, a teaspoon each of cinnamon, cloves, and nutmeg, and 
one cup of vinegar. When ready to make the pies, use one 
cup of the mincemeat to one cup of finely chopped ripe 
banana. 

Butterscotch Pie 

Make this in a double cooker, so that it will not lump. 
Ingredients: One cup of white sugar and one cup of brown 
sugar, three tablespoons of butter; add the yolks of three 
eggs, four tablespoons of flour, one and one half cups of 
sweet milk, one and one half cups of water, one teaspoon 
of vanilla. Put this in a cooked pie crust; then take the 
whites that are left and make a meringue ; brown lightly. 

Blackberry Jelly Pie 

Squeeze three boxes of ripe blackberries, after slightly 
warming them, and to each pint of juice add a pint of sugar; 
boil about twenty minutes, and when cool fill the pie three 
quarters full. The rest of the jelly may be put into glasses 
for future use. When the crust is done, remove the pie and 
let it cool ; then spread the top with a good meringue, brown 
in the oven, and let it stand and get cold. 



Desserts 447 

Blueberry Pie 

Wash and carefully pick over one quart of large blue- 
berries. Put them into the crust lined pie plate with a cup 
and a half of sugar and three quarters of a cup of cold water. 
Put on the top crust and bake. Huckleberry pie is made in 
the same way. Mulberry pie is made in the same way only 
that a quarter of the amount of sugar is used, and the juice 
of a lemon is added to the water, which in this case is a quar- 
ter of a cup. Raspberry and blackcap pie is made the same 
as the blueberry, only using half the quantity of water. 

Cherry Cream Pie 

Line the pie plate with rich flaky crust. Open a quart 
jar of preserved cherries, strain them and heat the juice, 
adding to it a cup of cream; thicken slightly with cornstarch 
and when slightly cool fill in the cherries and turn over 
the cream; put on the top crust and bake. This is a very 
rich pie, and a good one if it is carefully made. 

Deep Dish Cherry Pie 

This is an old-fashioned recipe. Line a deep pie dish with 
good crust and fill with stoned cherries and a cup and a half 
of sugar. Make a lattice crust over the top and bake well. 
Serve hot. 

Cocoanut Pie 

Line a deep pie plate with good pie crust; over half of a 
grated cocoanut pour one pint of milk heated to boiling point, 
add two tablespoons of butter, a half cup of sugar, four well 
beaten eggs, and after pouring into the pie crust add a little 
dusting of nutmeg over the top. Bake the same length of 
time and test the same as is done with a custard pie. 

Custard Pie 

Beat into one quart of rich milk that has been warmed 
five eggs beaten with three tablespoons of sugar, flavor 



44^ Desserts 

with a teaspoon of vanilla flavoring and a small grating of 
nutmeg. Turn into the pie crust and bake until the cus- 
tard is set. This may be determined by sticking a silver 
knife into the custard. If it is done just right the knife 
will come out clean. Cooking usually takes about twenty 
to thirty minutes, according to the heat of the oven. 

Frosted Custard Pie 

Line the pie dish with good puff paste. Take one quart 
of rich milk and beat into it four eggs, a pinch of salt, a 
half cup of sugar, a teaspoon of vanilla flavoring, and a 
grating of nutmeg. Turn all into the crust and bake. 
When done and cold, frost the pie in the following way: 
Put a quarter of a cup of ice water in a bowl, add a saltspoon 
of cream of tartar, and stir in sufficient triple sugar to 
make an icing that will pour. Turn it evenly over the pie 
and set away to harden. 

Damson Plum Pie 

Take one quart of Damson plums, wash, prick with a 
needle, and stew in a pint of water with a pint of sugar. 
When stewed tender, cool, fill the crust lined pie plate 
with them, and bake until the crust is done. If the stones 
are removed twice the quantity of fruit must be used. 

Dried Fruit Pies. 

When fresh fruits are not available, dried fruits will be 
found very good to use in pie making. Only the best 
quality of dried fruit should be used. In making the pies, 
use deep pie plates and good homemade crust, but not 
necessarily puff paste. 

Dried Apple Pie 

Soak a half pound of dried apples overnight. In the 
morning, stew them until tender with four slices of lemon, 



Desserts 449 

two cloves, and a stick of cinnamon. When tender, add a 
cup and a half of sugar and let all stew down rather rich 
and thick. When cool, remove lemon and cinnamon, drain 
off a half cup of the syrup and add to it a teaspoon of ground 
ginger, a teaspoon of flour, and two teaspoons of molasses. 
Drain the apples and add them to the pie, then add the gin- 
ger mixture and as much of the syrup as the pie wiU hold; 
add the top crust and bake. Serve the pie hot, with a 
square of good dairy cheese on the side. 

Dried Cherry Pie 

Take one pound of dried cherries and soak them over- 
night. In the morning, stew them until they are tender, 
then add a cup and a half of sugar and cook down until 
the syrup is rich and heavy. When cool fill the pie with the 
cherries and as much juice as it will take, and put on the 
top crust. This pie is good hot or cold, served with cream. 

Pear Pie 

Take one pound of dried pears and soak them until they 
puff up; then put them on to stew with as little water as 
possible, watching them carefully lest they burn. When 
they are tender, add a cup of preserved Canton ginger 
and syrup, after chopping the ginger pieces small. Add a 
teaspoon of lemon juice, a little of the grated peel, and a 
half cup of sugar. When all is thoroughly mixed, let cool 
slightly and then fill the pie crust. Serve hot. 

Prune Pie 

Soak a pound of large prunes for a couple of hours, then 
stew them carefully. When the prunes are done, remove 
them from the liquid, and, to a cup or a little more of the 
juice, add a cup of sugar and a teaspoon of lemon juice; 
then boil to a thick syrup. While it boils, put in a stick of 
cinnamon. Remove the seeds from the prunes and chop 

29 



450 Desserts 

them fine. After they are chopped, fill the pie crust, which 
has been baked like a tart shell, with the fruit and add 
enough syrup to make it the right consistency; then heap 
the top with whipped cream and it is ready to serve. 

Raisin Pie 

Take a cup and a half of large seeded raisins and let them 
stand in a cup of vanilla syrup for one hour. Add to the 
raisins a half cup of finely chopped pecan nuts, the crumbs 
of a dozen stale macaroons, juice of half a lemon, a quarter 
cup of melted butter, and one heaping teaspoon of flour 
mixed smooth in a little of the syrup. Pour mixture into 
crust, put on top crust, and bake until the crust is done. 

Green Tomato Pie 

To make the filling for this pie one must wash and chop 
four quarts of green tomatoes fine. Allow three pounds of 
brown sugar, the juice of two lemons, and the grated rind 
of one; a tablespoon of cinnamon, one of allspice, one of 
salt, a half teaspoon of cloves, and one grated nutmeg. 
Put all into a porcelain lined kettle and simmer gently one 
hour, or until reduced one half in bulk. Then add two 
pounds of seeded raisins, a cup of seeded and chopped 
prunes, and a cup of boiled cider. Cook down an hour and 
a half longer, until the mixture is thick; allow it to cool, 
then use as needed for pie filling. 

Jewish Shallit 

Line a deep pie plate with good crust. Put In a layer of 
chopped apple, a little grated lemon peel, bits of butter, 
and two tablespoons of thin vanilla syrup. Cover with an- 
other layer of pastry; put on top of this another layer 
of chopped apple with a half cup of seeded raisins, half a cup 
of chopped nut meats, the juice of half a lemon; dot with 



Desserts 451 

butter, and add three tablespoons vanilla syrup. Put on 
the top crust and seal it with the white of an egg. Butter 
the top and bake. 

Princess Lemon Pie 

Line a deep, well buttered pie plate with good puff paste, 
pressing the edge with the tines of a silver fork. For the 
filling use one cup of sugar, one cup of milk, four eggs, 
one tablespoon of flour, and one large lemon — juice and 
grated rind. Beat the yolks of the eggs and a cup of sugar 
together and add the lemon juice, beating it all thoroughly. 

Mix the flour and the milk together as smoothly as 
possible and strain into the other mixture, then pour into 
the pie plate, baking it for thirty minutes. Beat the yolks 
of the eggs very stiff with two tablespoons of powdered 
sugar. When the pie is done spread the meringue over 
the top, place it in the oven, and brown it quickly. The pie 
may be served hot or cold, as desired, and either way it will 
be found particularly rich and of fine flavor. 

Mince Pie 

To one pint of good shaker mincemeat add two cups of 
finely chopped apples, a cup of large seeded raisins, a cup of 
strained honey, a wineglass of brandy, and two tablespoons 
of apricot cordial; mix all thoroughly. This amount of meat 
should fill two deep-dish pies. 

There are several other brands of mincemeat, so one 
does not have to make it at home unless they wish to do so. 

Mock Cherry Pie 

Chop two cups of cranberries and one cup of seeded 
raisins, add two cupfuls of sugar and one of boiling water, 
one teaspoon of vanilla and two teaspoons of flour. Use a 
good pie crust and bake as usual. 



452 Desserts 

Orange Pie 

Cream together three quarters of a cup of sugar and a 
scant tablespoon of butter. Beat together the yolks of 
three eggs with the white of one and add to the butter and 
sugar. Mix together the juice of one orange, half a lemon, 
a little of the grated peel, and a dash of nutmeg. Have 
ready a pie plate lined with good puff paste and turn in the 
mixture and bake. When done beat the whites of the eggs 
stiff with two tablespoons of powdered sugar, spread lightly 
over the pie, and brown a minute or two in the oven. 

Fresh Pineapple Pie . 

Grate or chop one large sweet pineapple, add to it one cup 
of sugar, a quarter cup of butter, one cup of cream, and 
five beaten eggs. Pour the mixture into a good under 
crust, and when baked put a meringue on top. 

Rhubarb Pie 

Pare and dice . two and a half cups of fresh rhubarb. 
Put in a saucepan and cover with cold water; let it come 
quickly to a boil, then stand at boiling point, for ten 
minutes. Drain. When cool fill the pie, adding one cup 
of sugar. This method removes all of the unpleasant and 
poisonous acid from the rhubarb. 

Fresh Peach Pie 

Line a deep pie plate with good rich crust and fill the pie 
with ripe cut peaches. Take a cup and a half of sugar 
and a half cup of water and put it into a saucepan with a 
spice bag and half a thinly sliced lemon; let the mixture 
melt, then slowly come to boiling point and boil five 
minutes; remove from the fire and let stand and cool. 
When cold remove the lemon and the spice bag and turn 
over the peaches, put on the top crust and bake. Serve hot 
with plain cream or cold with whipped cream. 



Desserts 453 

Pumpkin Pie 

Cut in pieces one large pumpkin, pare, remove the seeds, 
and put to boil. When tender enough to mash, drain. 
Mash and add to the pulp a teaspoon of salt, a cup of molas- 
ses, a cup of sugar, a level tablespoon of ground ginger, a 
teaspoon of vanilla, and when cool, the beaten whites of 
three eggs and a cup of cream. This should be sufficient 
filling for two pies, or three if the pumpkin is a large one. 

Washington Pie 

Version No. i — Cream two eggs with three tablespoons 
of butter and one cup of powdered sugar; when smooth, add 
alternately a half cup of milk and two small cups of flour. 
Beat thoroughly, then add one heaping teaspoon of baking 
powder. Bake in jelly tins and lay up with soft frosting in 
which a little orange marmalade has been beaten. 

Version No. 2 — Set a pint of milk to boil. Break two 
eggs into a dish, and add one cup of sugar and a half cup of 
flour. After beating vigorously, stir it into the hot milk as 
it comes to a boil. Add one ounce of butter and two tea- 
spoons of vanilla; stir the mixture until it thickens. For the 
crust, use three eggs, one cup of sugar, one and a half 
cups of flour, a teaspoon of baking powder, and two table- 
spoons of milk. Mix thoroughly, then divide the batter 
into two equal parts and cook them in layer tins in a quick 
oven. When they are done and cool, split each with a sharp 
knife and lay them up with the cream, dusting the top with 
powdered sugar. 

Version No. 3 — Line a pie plate with good pie crust. 
Beat two egg yolks with a half cup of sugar and four grated 
apples; add a teaspoon of melted butter, a dash of salt, 
and a grating of nutmeg. Bake in the crust and when done 
put a meringue on the top and set it back in the oven just 
long enough to brown the meringue. 



454 Desserts 

Version No. 4 — Take three quarters of a pound of butter 
and cream it with one and a half pounds of brown sugar; 
add six eggs, the yolks beaten with one pint of sweet milk. 
Sift in one and three quarter pounds of flour, two teaspoons 
of baking powder, and lastly fold in the stiffly beaten whites 
of the eggs. Have ready a half pound of currants washed 
and dried, a half pound of stoned raisins, a quarter pound of 
finely sliced citron, a grated nutmeg, and two teaspoons of 
vanilla flavoring ; sprinkle the fruit with a little flour before 
adding it to the cake. Mix well and bake in a shallow square 
pan for an hour and three quarters. Cover the cake with a 
deep soft sugaring and ornament it with a border of little 
pink and white candies. 

Version No. 5 — Line a deep pie plate with good crust. 
Add to one and a half pints of milk three tablespoons of 
corn starch, one cup of sugar, two tablespoons of butter, a 
teaspoon of vanilla flavoring, and the rind of a lemon. Be- 
fore adding the cornstarch, dissolve it in a little cold milk. 
When the milk has thickened slightly with the cornstarch, 
draw it aside and add the beaten egg yolks, butter, and 
flavoring. Pour the mixture at once into the pie crust, 
removing the lemon rind. Bake for twenty minutes, or 
until the crust is done. Remove from the oven, add a 
meringue, return to the oven and brown it; serve hot or cold. 



CAKES 

The making of good cake is a knack to be acquired only 
after much practice. In studying the rudiments of cake- 
making, the beginner should never attempt anything un- 
usual until after she has learned to make perfect plain, 
pound, sponge, and raisin cakes. 

Only the freshest eggs, best quality butter, rich sweet 
milk, the best pastry flours, pure baking powder, and 
filtered water should be used for cake making if best results 
are to be had. 

Cake is best baked In a rising oven, where the heat 
gradually increases. The most important thing to be seen 
to, if baking by a coal oven, is the condition of the fire so 
that it will keep the oven at the right temperature. Gas 
and electric stoves can, of course, be more readily regulated, 
though in both the latter ovens a pan of water is generally 
put in during the cooking of cakes to keep the air moist. 
Cooks of wide experience agree that, after testing all modes 
of cooking, the gauze-door coal range is the ideal cake 
baker. 

Pound Cake 

Three quarters of a pound of butter and one pound of 
powdered sugar mixed together thoroughly ; to this add the 
beaten yolks of ten eggs, and sift in one pound of flour, one 
halfteaspoonof baking powder, and a pinch of salt; last of all 
fold in the whites of eight eggs. Bake in a medium oven for 
about one hour. The cake is baked in a shallow pan double 
as long as its width and lightly smeared with butter. The 
frosting is made of the remaining egg whites very stiffly 

455 



45^ CaKes 

beaten, allowing fifteen teaspoons of powdered sugar 
and the juice of half a lemon. Beat the egg until very stiff, 
then add the sugar, beating in a teaspoon at a time, last 
the lemon juice, and then spread smoothly over the warm 
cake with a broad-bladed knife which is dipped occasionally 
in cold water. A soft-boiled frosting may be used if it is 
better liked. 

Sponge Cake 

Break one dozen eggs, without separating, into a large 
mixing bowl, add to them two cups of powdered sugar, set 
the bowl in a pan of boiling water, and keep near the front 
of the range so that the temperature may be kept at boiling 
point; beat with an egg beater for half an hoiu: without 
stopping, remove from the range, and stir in one cup of sifted 
flour and the grated rind and juice of one lemon; pour in well 
buttered chimney pan, bake in a medium oven half an hour 
or less, testing with a broom splint. When done invert the 
pan and let cool before removing the cake. This also may 
be frosted. 

Solid Chocolate Cake 

One cup of sugar and half a cup of butter creamed 
together; add two eggs, a half a cup of milk, two teaspoons 
of baking powder, and flour enough to make a stif? batter. 
While beating this batter smooth put over the fire in a 
clean saucepan one cup of sugar, the yolks of two eggs, a 
half cup of Baker's chocolate, grated, and a half cup of 
milk. After it has boiled smooth for five minutes set it 
aside and slightly cool ; then stir it into the thick batter, 
beat and turn into a shallow buttered pan, and bake in a 
medium oven; or part of the dough may be put into the 
fancy shaped pans and that in the large pan cut into 
small squares, then iced or split, spread with marmalade, 
then cut into small jelly sandwiches and iced. 



CaKes 457 

Spanish Cake 

Beat one pound of butter and one pound of sugar to a 
cream, add slowly the stiffly beaten yolks of eight eggs. 
Sift in one pound of flour, two teaspoons of baking powder, 
and a pinch of salt. Stir in one cup of milk, and when all is 
beaten smooth, fold in the eight egg whites beaten stiffly. 
Flavor with rose flavoring and bake in carefully greased 
chimney pans. 

Fruit Cake 

Nine eggs, three quarters of a pound of butter, one pound 
of sugar, one half cup of molasses, one pound of flour and 
one dessertspoon of vanilla. Beat the whites and yolks 
of the eggs separately. Grate in one nutmeg, add a teaspoon 
of ground cloves, a pinch of mace, one teaspoon of baking 
powder, one cup of milk, one pound of stoned raisins, one 
pound of well washed currants, and a half pound of sliced 
citron. The mixture must be thoroughly stirred, and if it 
seems a little too thin, then add a small quantity of flour. 
Bake in well buttered tins for three hours, try with a broom 
splint, and invert the pans to cool the cake. 

Marble Cake 

For the light part of the cake use three cups of sugar, two 
thirds of a cup of butter, one cup of sour cream, four cups of 
flour, a teaspoon of baking powder, and the stiffly beaten 
whites of four eggs. For the dark part use two level cups 
of brown sugar, one cup of molasses, two thirds of a cup of 
butter, one cup of milk, four cups of flour, one teaspoon 
baking powder, and the yolks of six eggs; add one half 
tablespoon each of ground cloves, ginger, cinnamon, all- 
spice, and one grated nutmeg. Next add a few drops of 
lemon and bitter almond flavoring. Lightly butter a large 
shallow baking tin, pouring in the cake in alternate layers, 
dark and light, and bake them one hour, testing with broom 
splint. Use the remaining egg whites for frosting. 



458 CaKes 

Silver Cake 

Mix one cup of butter and two cups of sugar to a cream, 
then add the whites of four eggs well beaten and stir for 
twenty minutes, then add a cup of milk, two cups of sifted 
flour, and lastly one cup of flour mixed with one and a half 
teaspoons of baking powder. Flavor with vanilla and bake. 

Angel Cake 

Whip the whites of twelve eggs to a firm stiff froth, sift in 
gradually one and a half cups of granulated sugar, then one 
cup of flour which has been sifted four times, and one level 
teaspoon of baking powder. Add also two teaspoons of 
vanilla flavoring and, after quickly mixing, turn the dough 
into an ungreased chimney pan and bake forty minutes in a 
steady, moderate oven. When baked, invert the pan over 
a plate, resting its edges on two small cups. As the cake 
cools, it will become detached from the pan. 

Honey Cake 

Mix half a cupful of sugar with a cupful of rich sour 
cream, sift into it two cups of flour, stir well, add half a tea- 
spoon of bicarbonate of soda and enough honey to flavor it 
well; beat all together, pour in buttered tin, and bake from 
half to three quarters of an hour and serve warm. 

Almond Cake 

Blanch and pound one half a pound of sweet almonds to a 
paste; separate the whites from the yolks of six eggs, beat 
the yolks with the almonds, stir in eight tablespoons of sugar, 
grated rind of one lemon, three ounces of butter that has 
been beaten to a cream, mix well, and add the beaten whites 
of the eggs; put in a well buttered chimney pan and bake 
from one and a half to one and three quarters of an hour ; 
invert the pan on a cake plate and when it cools the cake will 
come out on the plate. 



CaKes 459 

Tea Cake 

Mix a quarter of a pound of flour with a quarter of a 
pound of arrowroot, add a small cupful of sugar, a quarter 
pound of butter, one ounce of candied orange peel cut fine, 
and two well beaten eggs ; heat the mixtiu-e for ten minutes 
then bake in a buttered paper lined cake tin for one hour 
to one hour and a quarter. When cold it may be put away 
in a cake closet, and it is one of the best keeping cakes 
known. 

Queen Cakes 

Work a half pound of butter to a cream, sift in a pound 
of flour, one cupful of sugar, half a pound of currants, and 
mix well, whisk three eggs and add them to a teacup of 
cream, and the vanilla flavoring ; add one teaspoon of bicar- 
bonate of soda, beat well, and put in small buttered pans 
and bake twenty minutes to a half hour. 

Washington Cake 

Rub together two cups of butter and three cups of sugar 
until light and creamy ; add five well beaten eggs gradually, 
then one cup of milk and four cups of carefully sifted flour 
with two teaspoons of baking powder. Next add one cup 
of stoned raisins, a half cup of well- washed currants, a quar- 
ter of a cup of chopped citron, and one teaspoon each of 
extract of nutmeg and cinnamon. Beat into a smooth 
medium batter, then turn into a shallow square pan. Bake 
one hour and a half in a quick, steady oven. When cold, 
cover with a rich soft vanilla frosting. 

Blueberry Cake 

Beat two cups of sugar and half a cup of butter to a cream, 
add the well beaten yolks of four eggs, half a teaspoon of 
salt, half a cup of milk, one teaspoon grated nutmeg, 
half a teaspoon of cinnamon, and two cups of flour, sifted. 



460 CaKes 

with two teaspoons of baking powder. Beat the mixture 
well, then add the beaten whites of the eggs. Have ready, 
washed and carefully picked over, one quart of blueberries; 
dust them lightly with flour, and fold them into the cake. 
Grease the cake pans (shallow ones are best), and pour in 
the cake about an inch thick; dust the top with sugar and 
bake slowly half an hour or more, if needed. 

Dutch Breadfruit Cake 

Beat the yolks of twelve eggs with one half pound of 
sugar, beating for half an hour; add a half pound of sweet 
almonds that have been blanched and mashed fine, a half 
pound of black bread that has been grated and moistened 
in a little thin vanilla syrup; add also a teaspoon of cinna- 
mon, a half teaspoon of grated nutmeg, a quarter pound of 
finely chopped citron, and the beaten egg whites. Mix 
all very smooth and bake the dough in a slow oven. 

Jelly Sponge 

Bake a sponge cake in a deep square pan. When cold 
cut off the end and hollow out the inside like a box. The 
pieces that are cut out may be used at luncheon with sliced 
fruit. Make a good lemon or wine jelly, and when it 
begins to cool add a bottle each (small size) of green and 
red maraschino cherries, turn into the cake, and place 
in a cool ice chamber to set. Have ready a pint of whipped 
cream, to which add a little sugar, a few drops of vanilla, 
and a teaspoon of finely chopped nuts. Heap this on 
top of Lhe jelly. Garnish with a few strips of angelica 
and serve. 

One-Two-Three-Four Cake 

One cup of butter, two of sugar creamed together, add 
the yolks of four eggs and one cup of milk, and sift in 
three cups of flour, a half saltspoon of salt, and two level 
teaspoons of baking powder. Beat the cake thoroughly, 



CaKes 461 

add two teaspoons of vanilla, pour in well greased pans and 
bake. If desired a cup of seeded raisins, a half cup of 
chopped citron, and a half cup of well washed currants may 
be lightly floured and added to the batter. Bake for thirty- 
five minutes. 

Ohio Fruit Cake 

One pound of seeded raisins, one pound of washed cur- 
rants, one quarter of a pound of thinly sliced citron, one 
pound of brown sugar, one cup of butter, fotir well beaten 
eggs, one cup of sour milk, four cups of flour that has been 
sifted three times, one grated nutmeg, one tablespoon of 
cinnamon, and a dessertspoon of cloves ; beat these ingredi- 
ents thoroughly into a smooth dough and lastly add one des- 
sertspoon of baking soda. Do not mix the soda with milk 
but sift it in dry. Turn the dough into a well buttered 
chimney pan and bake in a brisk oven until done, testing 
the cake with a straw. 

Old-Fashioned Plum Cake 

Take six pounds of currants, five pounds of flour, an 
ounce of cloves and mace, a little cinnamon, half an ounce 
of nutmegs, half a pound of pounded and blanched almonds, 
a half a pound of sugar, three quarters of a pound of sliced 
citron, lemon and orange peel, half a pint of sack, a little 
honey- water, a quart of ale-yeast, a quart of cream, a 
pound and a half of butter melted and poured into the middle 
thereof; then strew a lit tie flour thereon, and let it lie to rise; 
then work it well together and lay it before the fire to rise ; 
work it up until it is very smooth ; put it in a hoop, with a 
paper floured at the bottom. 

LAYER CAKES 

Cuban Orange Layer Cake 

Rub together one cup of sugar, four tablespoons of 
butter, add a teaspoon of salt, one beaten egg, one cup of 



462 CaKes 

water and sift two level teaspoons of baking powder with 
two cups of flour into the mixture. Beat until smooth 
and bake in layer pans. For the filling boil one half cup of 
sugar in the juice of an orange. Dissolve one heaping tea- 
spoon of corn starch in two tablespoons of cold water, 
add the beaten yolk of one egg, add this to the boiHng syrup 
stirring constantly until thick. Remove from the fire and 
spread between the layers of cake. Frost with a good soft 
frosting if desired. 

Imported Viennese " Chocolate Schnutten " 

Cream together one half pound of butter and one half 
pound of sugar. Add the yolks of sixteen eggs, two and one 
half ounces of grated almonds, two and one half ounces of 
browned bread crumbs, two and one half ounces of sifted 
flour, the soft center of half a vanilla bean one fourth cake of 
sweet chocolate, grated; and lastly, the whites of the 
sixteen eggs, stiffly beaten. Bake in shallow, hghtly but- 
tered pans, in a moderate oven, for from twenty to twenty- 
five minutes, and when done, invert over plates to cool. 
When cold, cut into two-and-one-half-inch squares. SpHt 
the squares with a sharp knife into two layers, spread 
the under layer with the fiUing and the upper layer with the 
glazing. 

For the filHng use one half pound of butter and one half 
cake of grated sweet chocolate, melted and beaten together 
till smooth and creamy. 

For the glazing, to one fourth cake of sweet chocolate, 
grated, add one half cup of sugar and one-fourth cup of 
water. Let this boil up well, then beat until cool and 
creamy and spread lightly over the cake. 

The quantity given in this recipe will make three ordi- 
nary eight-inch-square cakes. 

Lady Baltimore Cake 

Take one cup of butter and cream it with two cups of 
sugar, add three and a half cups of flour sifted with two level 



CaKes 463 

teaspoons of baking powder, add also one cup of sweet 
milk, a teaspoon of rose water, and lastly fold in the stiffly 
beaten whites of six eggs. Bake in three layer cake tins. 
While baking prepare the following filling: 

Dissolve three cups of sugar in one cup of water, cooking 
until it spins a thread, then pour it over the stiffly beaten 
whites of three eggs, stirring constantly. Add to the filling 
one cup of chopped pecan nuts and six or eight figs cut in 
fine strips. 

Lay up the cake, when done, with the filling, then ice it on 
top and sides with white frosting. 

Cocoanut Cake 

Make the layers for the cake after the one-two-three- 
four cake recipe. One cup of butter, two of sugar, three of 
flour, and four eggs. Of course the egg whites are beaten 
separately and folded in after the other ingredients are well 
beaten, and enough sweet milk added to make the dough the 
right consistency; a heaping teaspoon of baking powder 
is sifted in with the flour, and last of all two teaspoons of 
vanilla are added before turning the batter into the well 
buttered pans. The filHng is made of fresh cocoanut. 
Grate the meat of one fresh sweet cocoanut. Melt one cup of 
sugar with a half cup of water and let it boil for four min- 
utes; haveready the beaten whites of two eggs, beat the syrup 
into the eggs very Hghtly, then add a cup and a half of the 
cocoanut, beat well, and lay up the cake, covering the top 
with the filling, then sprinkHng all with some 01 the fresh 
cocoanut. 

Plain Layer Cake 

Put one cup of sugar, a half cup of butter, and the yolks 
of three eggs into the mixing bowl and beat thoroughly, 
adding two teaspoons of vanilla flavoring. Sift two and a 
half cups of flour with two and a half teaspoons of baking 
powder, and alternately sift into the mixture with a cup of 
water. Mix thoroughly and beat for five minutes ; then fold 



464 CaKes 

in the whites of the eggs that have been beaten very stiff. 
Bake in three layers, in a moderate oven, for half an hour 
or a little less. Any filling desired may be used to lay the 
cake up with. 

Plain Layer Cake Made with Oil 

Put one cup of sugar, the yolks of three eggs, and a half cup 
of any good vegetable oil into a mixing bowl and beat 
thoroughly; add one teaspoon of vanilla flavoring, sift in 
two and a half cups of flour with two and a half teaspoons of 
baking powder, adding it to the cake alternately with one 
cup of water. Beat all together for five minutes, then fold 
in the whites of the three eggs well beaten. Bake in three 
layers for twenty minutes. Lay up with any filling or icing 
desired. If a few drops of the oil are added to the soft frost- 
ing it will keep it in perfect condition for several days. 

Layer Cake, Soft Frosting 

In laying up a cake with soft frosting, each layer may be 
sprinkled with powdered pistachio nuts. To make it espe- 
cially pretty for a festival occasion, the top may be decora- 
ted with candied mint and rose leaves. 

CAKE FILLINGS AND ICINGS 

Filling for Chocolate Layer Cake 

One half cake chocolate grated and dissolved in a small 
cup of milk; let it come to boihng point, then add three 
quarters of a cup of sugar, a half teaspoon of butter, a half 
saltspoon of salt, and a teaspoon of vanilla flavoring. Boil 
for three minutes, when it is ready for use. 

Lemon Filling 

The grated rind and juice of one lemon, one cup of sugar, 
and one egg, beat thoroughly and boil in double boiler 
until cooked, from six to ten minutes. 



OaKes 465 

Filling for Minnehaha Cake 

A cup and a half of sugar and three quarters of a cup of 
water, cook until it spins a thread; turn onto a cold plate, 
beat for three minutes, then add the stiffly beaten whites of 
two eggs, a half a cup of chopped walnuts, a half a cup 
of finely chopped raisins, one finely chopped strip of candied 
lemon peel, and a teaspoon of vanilla flavoring. Beat 
thoroughly and lay up the cake. 

Marshmallow Filling 

The marshmallow whip comes ready prepared to lay up 
the cake with and is much easier to use than the old way of 
making this troublesome filling. The whip may be flavored 
with maple or any other flavoring liked which lessens 
its rather cloying sweetness. 

Almond Icing 

Equal quantity of ground almonds and icing sugar, — abou t 
one half pound of each, — sufficient yolk of egg to make into 
a stiff paste, and work well together. The yolks should 
be beaten with a wooden spoon, the paste worked with the 
hand, kept very smooth and not too soft. Straighten the 
top of the cake, brush it over with white of egg, and then put 
on the icing, which should be made the same size as the cake. 
Decorate with burnt almonds. 

Water Icing 

Use two cups of confectioner's sugar, adding the grated 
rind of one lemon, a tablespoon of lemon juice, and two 
tablespoons of boiling water; stir until smooth, then spread 
upon the cake. 

Royal Icing 

Take one cup of icing sugar, the stiffly beaten white of 
an egg, and a teaspoon of lemon juice, work well together 
30 



466 CaKes 

with a wooden spoon. Spread with a knife on as many 
layers as are required. This frosting takes a day to dry. 
It may be decorated with any sort of nuts or other decora- 
tions, or colored with any of the delicate harmless color- 
ings. 

Maple Sugar Icing 

Boil a half pound of broken maple sugar with a quarter of 
a cup of water until dissolved and thick enough to rope when 
dropped from the spoon. Pour the syrup gradually over 
the whipped white of two eggs and beat until thick enough 
to spread. 

. Boiled Icing 

Boil one cup of granulated sugar with a half a cup of 
water until it ropes from the spoon; pour gradually over 
the stiffly beaten whites of two eggs, beat for five minutes, 
add one teaspoon of vanilla flavoring, and use at once. 

Mocha Filling 

Put into a saucepan the yolks of eight eggs and a half a 
pound of sugar, beat well together, then add a half pint of 
very strong coffee and a half pint of boiling milk. Set the 
saucepan over the fire and stir continually with a small 
whip as the liquid slowly comes to boiling point. Do not 
allow it to boil, but remove it from the fire and let it stand 
until cold. Put eight tablespoons of butter in a hot sauce- 
pan and soften it sufficiently to be able to work it to a 
cream ; when it is creamed pour the coflfee mixture into it, 
beating all well together vigorously with a whip, when it will 
be ready to use. 

SMALL CAKES 

Peanut Cookies 

Mix two tablespoons of butter with a quarter of a cup of 
sugar, add one beaten egg, one half cup of flour sifted with a 



CaKes 467 

half teaspoon of baking powder, two tablespoons of milk, 
one third teaspoon of salt, one half cup of chopped peanuts, 
one teaspoon of vanilla, and a grating of nutmeg. Mix all 
carefully together, then drop from the spoon onto an 
unbuttered tin, leaving more than an inch between the 
cookies. 

Jumbles 

One cup of butter, one pint of flour, one and a quarter 
cups of powdered sugar, two tablespoons of sherry, one tea- 
spoon of vanilla, and three eggs. Beat the butter to a 
cream, add the sugar gradually, beating until very light; 
beat the eggs together, add to the butter and sugar, add 
sherry and vanilla and last the sifted flour. Beat well and 
drop by the teaspoon on a baking pan ; bake in a moderate 
oven until the edges are a delicate brown. 

Up-Side-Downie Cakes 

Mix one cup of sugar with one and a half cups of sifted 
flour, one heaping teaspoon of baking powder, the whites 
of two eggs, a half cup of melted butter, and a half a cup 
of sweet cream. Beat all in a mixing bowl for five minutes, 
adding a teaspoon of vanilla. Bake in buttered muffin 
pans. 

Nut Wafers 

Take one half pound of brown sugar and mix with it a 
half pound of chopped pecan nuts, two level tablespoons of 
flour, a half teaspoon of baking powder, a third teaspoon of 
salt, two beaten eggs, a little grated nutmeg, and a teaspoon 
of vanilla flavoring. Mix thoroughly and drop by small 
spoonfuls on buttered tins ; bake in a quick oven. 

Puff BaUs 

Add to three beaten eggs one cup of sugar, a pint of milk, 
a half teaspoon of salt, one teaspoon of vanilla, and two 



468 CaKes 

heaping teaspoons of baking powder sifted with two cups 
of flour. Beat thoroughly, adding a Httle more flour to make 
a thick batter which wifl hold the spoon upright. Drop 
by small spoonfuls into hot fat and fry a delicate brown. 
When done drain, dust with powdered sugar, and when 
cold pack away in a stone crock to use as needed. 

Midgets 

To three eggs, one cup of butter, and one and a half cups 
of sugar mixed together smoothly, add one cup of seeded 
and chopped raisins, a little finely chopped citron, a tea- 
spoon each of cloves, allspice, and cinnamon, and sufficient 
flour to make them firm enough to roll. Cut in tiny odd 
shapes with fancy cookie cutter and bake. These may be 
frosted with pistachio frosting and dusted with powdered 
walnuts. 

Walnut Kisses 

Beat the whites of six eggs stiff; add one pound of finely 
sifted powdered sugar, two tablespoons of flour, and one 
pound of chopped walnut meats. Add a little vanilla 
flavoring and mix all well together. Drop in teaspoons on 
a well buttered pan and bake in a moderate oven. 

Victoria Sandwiches 

Beat to a cream the yolks of four eggs and add their 
weight in sugar, butter, and flour; when creamy add the 
well beaten whites of the eggs; butter a shallow baking 
pan, and pour in the batter. Bake in a moderate oven for 
twenty minutes. Let cool, then spread one half of the cake 
with preserves, lay the other half over it, and cut into small 
sandwiches. 

Cocoanut Drops 

Two cups of freshly grated cocoanut, one cup of sugar, 
one tablespoon of flour, the stiffly beaten white of one 



CaKes 469 

egg. Mix all together, adding a half teaspoon of vanilla; 
drop by the spoonful on buttered paper, sift a little sugar 
over them, and bake fifteen minutes in a slow oven. 

Jolly Boys 

Sift carefully two and a half heaping tablespoons of 
yellow cornmeal, two heaping tablespoons of flour, one 
tablespoon of sugar, a saltspoon of salt, and a teaspoon of 
baking powder; add one beaten egg to the mixture and 
then enough sweet milk to make a drop batter; stir in quick- 
ly one teaspoon of melted butter, beat well, and drop by 
teaspoons in hot fat. When they are a delicate brown serve 
in a napkin. 

Macaroons 

Take one half pound of almond paste, nine ounces of 
powdered sugar, the stiffly beaten whites of three eggs, 
a half teaspoon of vanilla, and one tablespoon of sifted flour ; 
mix all thoroughly and drop onto a clean, ungreased bak- 
ing pan. Bake a delicate brown. 

Snippi Doodles 

Cream together one cup of sugar and a tablespoon of but- 
ter, then add one cup of floiu", a teaspoon of baking powder, 
and a teaspoon of ground cinnamon; mix well and add one 
beaten egg and half a cup of milk. Spread very thin on a 
buttered baking sheet. When nearly done sprinkle the 
surface with sugar and when brown remove from the oven, 
cut into squares, and remove quickly with a knife. These 
are thin crisp cookies and unusually good. 

Fruit Pinwheel 

Rub through a sieve one pint of flour, a tablespoon of 
sugar, half saltspoon of salt, and two teaspoons of baking 
powder. Into this rub two generous tablespoons of butter 



470 CaKes 

and mix thoroughly with a half pint of milk. Flour the 
board and roll the dough out into a large square half an inch 
in thickness, spread a heaping tablespoon of soft butter on 
top of this, and sift over it a cup of sugar and a cup of well 
washed currants; grate a little nutmeg over the top. Cut 
and fold back the points to form a pinwheel, just as kinder- 
garten children do, and bake on a well greased baking tin 
twelve to fifteen minutes in a brisk oven. 

Cookies 

Three quarters of a cup of butter and a quarter of a cup 
of lard, two cups of sugar and five cups of flour rubbed well 
together, a teaspoon of baking powder, two eggs, and a half 
cup of milk. Mix all well, roll thin, and bake quickly. 

Austrian Apple Cake 

To one cup of sugar add a quarter of a cup of butter and 
the yolks of three eggs, beat to a cream, then add one 
and a half cups of flour, two teaspoons of baking powder, 
and a cup of milk. Mix thoroughly, then add the stiffly 
beaten whites of the eggs. Pour into a shallow, greased 
pan and cover the top with very thinly sliced and quartered 
apples, sprinkling all with cinnamon and sugar mixed to- 
gether. 

Apple Cheesecakes 

Pare, core, and boil sufficient apples to make a half pound 
when cooked; add to this pulp a quarter pound of sugar, a 
quarter pound of melted butter, four eggs, leaving out the 
whites of two, and the rind and juice of one lemon. Stir 
the mixture well, line patty pans with puff paste and fill 
them, and bake about twenty minutes. 

For some of the little cakes, pound cake, silver cake, 
sponge cake, and solid chocolate cake dough is used, varying 
them with different tinted fancy frostings garnished with 



CaKes 471 

split blanched almonds, chopped almonds, almonds rolled 
in jelly, almonds wrapped in seeded half raisins, strips of 
angelica, sweet seeds, chopped currants, preserved cherries, 
candied pineapple, grated lemon peel, tiny silvered candied 
hearts, candy mites, and candied mint, violet, and rose 
leaves. These various garnishes are pressed into the frost- 
ing while it is still soft, then as it hardens they stiffen into 
place and are not easily dislodged. 

The colorings used are the French Breton make, purely 
vegetable and harmless. Green, pink, violet, and yellow 
will be found quite satisfactory, and with chocolate and 
vanilla the cook has six different color combinations. 

The " Doed-Koecks " of Dutch Origin 

Weird funeral souvenirs of Dutch origin were called 
" Doed-Koecks " or "dead cakes. " With a small bottle of 
wine and a pair of gloves, two of these were sent by way of 
invitation to relatives and friends whom one wanted to 
attend the funeral. 

The original recipe for these cakes, which is said to be 
authentic, called for fourteen pounds of flour, six pounds of 
sugar, five pounds of butter, one quart of water, two tea- 
spoons of pearl ash, two tablespoons of salt, and one ounce 
of caraway seed. These were baked in four-inch squares, 
then frosted and marked with the initials of the "departed 
friend. " Sometimes they were eaten at the funeral dinner, 
but usually they were taken away, like wedding cakes, as 
souvenirs. 

Many bakers made a specialty of "funeral cookery, " one 
baker in Philadelphia advertising the specialty as recently 
as 1748. 

Simnel Cake for Lent 

The simnel cake is sacred to mid-Lent Sunday, as is the 
pancake to Shrove Tuesday and the hot cross bun to Good 



472 OaKes 

Friday. For the devout people who keep Lent in the 
orthodox way this famous old recipe may be of interest. 

Take one pound of butter, three quarters of a pound of 
sugar, whites of six eggs beaten stiff, six yolks beaten in a 
little water, one and a half pounds of flour, currants, citron, 
grated peel, chopped nuts, spices and two ounces of orange 
sugar, a wineglass of brandy, and mix all together well. 
Place in a well floured cloth, plunge into boiling water, 
and boil three hours. Remove cloth and place on a well 
buttered tin, brush over with egg, and bake in a slow oven 
until the crust is hard and a light brown. 

DOUGHNUTS 

Grandmother's Crullers 

Two cups of sugar, one cup of sweet milk, three eggs, a 
lump of butter the size of a walnut, a grating of nutmeg, 
one round teaspoon of cream tartar, and three quarters 
of a teaspoon of soda. Knead quite soft and roll the usual 
thickness, cook in deep fat, and sprinkle with powdered 
sugar. When cold pack away in a stone crock. 

Crullers 

Two cups of sugar, one cup of sweet milk, three eggs, 
teaspoon of butter, grating of nutmeg, a round teaspoon of 
cream of tartar, three quarters of a teaspoon of soda; 
mix, knead quite soft, roll out to half-inch thickness, cut, 
and drop in deep, hot fat ; when done dust lightly with pow- 
dered sugar. 

Raised Jelly Doughnuts 

Make a sponge of one pint of milk, three quarters of a cup 
of butter, three quarters of a yeast cake dissolved in a cup of 
cold water; sift in enough flour to make a batter that can be 
stirred with a spoon, and add three quarters of a cup of 
sugar. When this has risen, say four or five hours, add 



Cakes 473 

three cups of sugar, four eggs, a grating of nutmeg, a tea- 
spoon of vanilla flavoring; add a little flour if necessary, 
turn onto the floured board, roll, and cut into rounds. 
Let them rise from twenty minutes to half an hour, setting 
the board where it is a little warm; fry in hot fat; when 
cool enough to handle, make a little opening at the side 
with a sharp knife and tuck in a teaspoon of currant, black- 
berry, or quince jelly. Roll in powdered sugar and stow 
away in a crock. 

Nut Doughnuts 

Rub one cup of granulated sugar with two tablespoons of 
melted butter, when smooth add three well beaten eggs, two 
cups of milk, a teaspoon of salt, a teaspoon of vanilla, and 
sift in five cups of flour to which two heaping teaspoons 
of baking powder have been added. When all is mixed stir 
in a cupful of chopped nuts, of any kind liked, roll out, cut, 
and fry in deep lard. 

MOLASSES DAINTIES 

Gingerbread 

A pound and a half of flour takes up one pound of treacle, 
almost as much sugar, an ounce of ground ginger, two ounces 
caraway, four ounces citron and candied lemon peel, the 
yolks of four eggs ; cut your sweetmeats, mix all, and bake 
in large plates. A recipe popular in 1724. 

Honeycomb Gingerbread 

Mix together a heaping cup of flour, a half pound of 
brown sugar, a quarter pound of soft butter, one dessert- 
spoon of allspice, and two dessertspoons of ground ginger. 
Add the grated peel of half a lemon and the whole of the 
juice. Mix the ingredients thoroughly, then pour in a cup 



474 CaKes 

of New Orleans molasses ; beat all well, then spread thinly on 
shallow buttered pans. Bake in rather a slow oven and 
watch carefully. When done, remove from the oven and, 
with a sharp knife, cut into four-inch squares, rolling each 
piece around the fingers as it is raised from the pan. 

Soft Molasses Cookies 

Put one cup of molasses into a mixing bowl, then sift in 
one tablespoon of ground ginger, two tablespoons of warm 
milk, one third of a cup of warm soft butter, one teaspoon 
of baking soda, and enough flour to make a soft dough, just 
firm enough to roll out half an inch thick. Cut with a 
round or fancy cutter and bake in a brisk oven. 

Maple Ginger Cake 

Mix a half cup of butter with a cup of sugar, add a half 
cup of milk, two beaten eggs, one cup of New Orleans 
molasses, one tablespoon of ground ginger, a teaspoon of 
allspice, one and a half teaspoons of baking powder, and two 
cups of flour. Mix thoroughly and bake in square, shallow 
pans. When done, lay the cakes up with a well made 
maple icing between the layers. If the cake layer is too 
thick, it may be easily split after it is slightly cool. Half 
candied cherries may be set into the icing on top, by way of 
decoration. 

Spice Cakes 

Beat the yolks of three eggs with one cup of molasses, add 
a half cup of butter, a half cup of milk, three cups of flour, a 
pinch of salt, two teaspoons of baking powder, a dessert- 
spoon of vanilla, and a teaspoon each of cinnamon, cloves, 
and allspice, with a generous grating of nutmeg. Bake in 
fancy patty pans and frost with chocolate, marshmallow, 
or pistachio icing. If desired, a teaspoon of ground ginger 
may be added to the cakes, though this is a matter of taste. 



CaKes 475 

Farmers' Fruit Cake 

Take one cup of dried apples, chop them, and soak them 
overnight. In the morning let them simmer for two hours 
in a cup of New Orleans molasses, then set aside to get 
slightly cool. Take one cup of sugar, a third of a cup of 
butter, a half cup of sour milk in which a teaspoon of bak- 
ing soda has been dissolved, two teaspoons of ground cinna- 
mon and one of cloves, two beaten eggs, and two cups 
of finely sifted flour. Mix all well and add the apple and 
molasses. Bake in well buttered square pans. 

Honey and Sour Milk Gingerbread 

Blend together one cup of honey, a half a cup of butter, 
heat, and just before they reach boiling point, remove from 
fire. Allow the mixture to cool slightly, then add a half a 
cup of sour milk, two well beaten eggs, a half teaspoon of 
cinnamon, the same of ginger and salt, and one and three 
quarters teaspoons of soda. Bake in a shallow buttered 
pan and when cool, ice thinly. 

Mexican Cake 

Turn one cup of molasses into a mixing bowl with two 
tablespoons of melted butter, one cup of boiling water, one 
teaspoon of baking soda dissolved in a little boiling water, 
one heaping tablespoon of ground ginger, and three cups of 
sifted flour. Turn into buttered layer cake pans and bake. 
Have ready, when the cakes are done, a lemon filling made 
after this recipe: two cups of sugar, the grated rind of 
two lemons and the strained juice; two tablespoons of flour 
mixed with cold water, one tablespoon of melted butter, 
one cup of boiling water. After thoroughly mixing, add 
the beaten whites of two eggs and cook all together in 
a double boiler until thickened. Let cool slightly before 
laying up the cake, then frost the top with a soft frosting 



47^ CaKes 

flavored with lemon, and decorate the top of the cake with 
candied kumquats, cut in halves or slices. 

Crisp Ginger Snaps 

Boil together one cup of molasses, two tablespoons of 
lard, one tablespoon ground ginger, one teaspoon soda, a 
pinch of salt; when blended add enough flour to roll out 
thin, cut in fancy shapes, and bake quickly. 

Gingerbread 

To make gingerbread take one cupful of butter, one. cup- 
ful of brown sugar, one cup of sour cream, one cup of mo- 
lasses, four eggs, four cups of flour, a teaspoon of salt, two 
teaspoons of yellow ginger, and one teaspoon of soda 
dissolved in warm water. Mix thoroughly and bake in 
shallow, well buttered tins. 



HOME-MADE ICE CREAMS 

With the many ice cream freezers that there are now 
on the market, including the electric, the vacuum, and the 
so-called five-minute freezers, cream making at home with 
reliable recipes is an easy matter. 

A canvas bag with a wooden mallet comes especially for 
the preparing of the ice packing, while the rock salt is also 
conveniently bagged. One rule that has to be followed 
in caring for all freezers is that they must be kept absolutely 
clean, being thoroughly washed and dried after using in the 
sun or over a stove grating if they are of metal, so there is 
no possibility of rusting or corroding in any of their parts. 

The propelling apparatus of these new freezers require the 
same care that one would give any good machine, keeping 
them clean and properly oiled to do the most effective work. 

All ingredients for successful cream making must be of the 
very best quality; fresh eggs, sweet milk and cream, ripe 
but firm fruit carefully washed, the best cordials or liquors, 
fine grated sugar, the best syrups and flavorings — they only 
will give the best results. 

Remember in flavoring cream that the freezing flattens it, 
so a little more is needed than one would use in a custard or 
in a dish that is simply to be chilled, to give it the right 
flavor. 

If the cream is to be molded or simply left to ripen, and 
the dasher has to be removed for the purpose, great care 
must be taken in opening the freezer lest any salt should 
get in, in fact it is always safer to cover the top of the 
freezer with a square of asbestos paper thus insuring safety 
for the contents before putting on the cover. 

477 



478 Home-macle Ice Creams 

After the cream has been molded in square tins or fancy 
shapes and when it is time to be served, invert the mold 
over the dish ; if the cream clings persistently to the mold, 
wring a heavy clean cloth out of hot water and bind it 
around the mold for a couple of minutes; then the cream 
will slip out quite easily; but do not allow the cloth to 
remain long enough to melt the cream perceptibly. 

In cooking any of the recipes containing milk, exquisite 
care must be taken that not the slightest scorching should 
occur to taint the mixture. For this reason it is safer to use 
an enamel or porcelain lined double boiler for this purpose, 
keeping it for this use only if many creams are made. 

For frozen fruits whipped cream is best to serve so as not 
to have any conflicting flavors. Fresh strawberries dipped 
in powdered sugar and placed around the edge of the cream 
on a dish make a very good arrangement, decorative and 
good to eat as well. 

Sherbets and mousses, ices and frozen custards are usu- 
ally served plain, as sauce would make them too thin. 
Small cakes, however, are offered with them. 

Harmless coloring fluids add much to decorative color 
schemes for extra occasions if properly used. 

It is said that Dolly Madison was the first to introduce 
the custom of serving ice cream at the White House 
functions. 

Vanilla Cream to Use with a Sauce 

A quart and a pint of rich cream and one pint of rich milk 
with one pound of sugar and a dessert spoon of the best 
vanilla flavoring, should be carefully mixed and turned into 
the freezer and frozen hard. When ready to serve the fol- 
lowing sauce is turned over it: Wash, hull, and halve a 
quart of fresh, ripe strawberries. Take a cup and a half 
of sugar, turn into it a half cup of boiling water and when 
melted and hot turn over the berries ; let them stand in a 
warm place or in the sun, stirring every few minutes for two 
hours, then set away to chill until needed. 



Home-made Ice Creams 479 

Chocolate Ice Cream 

Dissolve six ounces of grated chocolate in a small quantity 
of milk and work to a smooth paste ; add three pints of cream, 
twelve ounces of sugar, and four whole eggs. Place all in a 
double boiler and stir until it begins to thicken, then strain 
through a sieve and place in the freezer. A teaspoon of 
vanilla flavoring will help bring out the flavor of the choco- 
late. 

Biscuit Glace 

Mix with one and a half pints of cream twelve ounces of 
sugar, the yolks of eight eggs, and two teaspoons of vanilla. 
Turn into a double boiler and cook until it begins to thicken, 
strain through a sieve into the freezer, freeze ten minutes, 
then open and add the whites of two eggs beaten stiff with a 
little powdered sugar and a quarter of a pound of stale maca- 
roons that have been rolled into crumbs, two more tea- 
spoons of vanilla, re-cover, and finish freezing. A gill of 
sherry may be added at this time, but it is not necessary. 

Tutti Frutti 

Add to one pint of milk two cups of sugar, two eggs, a 
tablespoon of sifted flour, two tablespoons of gelatine powder 
soaked in a little cold water, mix thoroughly, and let them 
come to a boil. Cook until they reach the right consistency, 
between fifteen and twenty minutes, then add the gelatine; 
when smooth and cool, add one quart of cream, put in the 
freezer, freeze ten minutes, then add the fruit, a cup of can- 
died cherries, a little grated pineapple, six chopped candied 
marrons, a little angelica, a dozen seeded and finely chop- 
ped raisins and a few powdered pistachio nuts, one wineglass 
of apricot cordial ; then cover the freezer again and finish 
freezing. 

Pineapple Ice Cream 

Grate or chop very fine one large sugarloaf pineapple, add 
to it two and a half cups of sugar, let stand a couple of hours. 



480 Home-made Ice Creams 

stirring every once in awhile, then strain and squeeze 
through a jelly bag, setting aside two heaping tablespoons 
of the fruit first to add to the cream. Add a quart of 
cream to the liquid and one pint of rich milk, pour into the 
freezer and freeze ten minutes, then add the pineapple, 
re-cover, and finish freezing. 

French Frozen Custard 

Make a rich custard with the yolks of six eggs, a quart of 
rich milk, pinch of salt, three quarters of a cup of sugar, and 
boil in double boiler until the custard is the right consist- 
ency. Let it cool, then add a pint of heavy cream, the 
whites of four of the eggs beaten until stiff with three 
tablespoons of powdered sugar, and add them to the cus- 
tard with a tablespoon of the best vanilla flavoring. Stir 
all into the freezer and freeze. This will make three pints 
of cream, or enough to serve ten people with one portion 
each. 

Frozen Custard 

Dissolve two teaspoons of powdered gelatine in two cups of 
milk; beat three tablespoons of sugar with the yolks of two 
eggs until light, then add it slowly to the milk. Cook in 
a double boiler, stirring but one way, until it thickens. 
Remove from the fire and cool ; when cold fold in the stiffly 
beaten whites of the eggs, a tablespoon of vanilla, and pour 
into the freezer and freeze. Serve with macaroons, lady- 
fingers, or white cake. 

Caramel Ice Cream 

Melt one cup of white sugar in an iron frying pan. Boil 
one quart of milk with a stick of cinnamon and pour it over 
the beaten yolks of six eggs, then add the caramel, and, 
when cool, turn the mixture into the freezer, adding the 
beaten egg whites and a teaspoon of vanilla. Freeze 
and let stand two hours to ripen before using. Whipped 



Home-macle Ice Creams 481 

cream is good served over this cream, or a vanilla syrup 
with chopped walnuts. 

Brown Bread Ice Cream 

Pour a pint of boiling milk over three ounces of brown 
bread crumbs, add five ounces of sugar, a teaspoon of vanilla, 
and one and a half tablespoons of gelatine dissolved in a 
little water. Stir until all is dissolved ; when cool add a half 
pint of cream and freeze. A half wineglass of good brandy 
may be added, if desired, to heighten the flavoring. 

Ginger Ice Cream 

Dissolve one teaspoon of powdered gelatine in a cup of hot 
water; add a tablespoon of lemon juice, three ounces of 
sugar, a cup of ginger syrup drained from a small jar of 
preserved ginger, and fold in two cups of heavy cream. 
Put in the freezer and, when partly frozen, add two sprays 
of the ginger root, which must be chopped fine. 

Raspberry Ice Cream 

Dissolve one tablespoon of powdered gelatine in a cupful 
of milk, add two cups of sugar and four cups of cream; 
stir until all is melted, then strain and add one quart of ripe 
red raspberries that have been carefully washed. Pour into 
a freezer and freeze hard. This will be enough for ten 
people. 

Baked Ice Cream 

Have the cream to be baked frozen very hard and cut into 
blocks the size of individual service. Have the whites of 
eggs beaten very stiff with powdered sugar and a dash of 
brandy, spread the meringue quickly over the blocks placed 
on a baking sheet and thrust them into the hot oven for a 
minute or two to brown the meringue, but watch that it 
does not btu-n as that ruins them. Serve quickly with 
macaroons. 
31 



482 Home-made Ice Creams 

Frozen Peaches 

Frozen peaches may be made rich or plain, so one may 
choose from the following two recipes the one that seems 
best: 

Plain recipe — Take enough peaches to make one quart 
when stoned, pared, and chopped fine. Add two cups of 
sugar and let stand for one hour, then add a quart of milk 
and freeze. Serve with sponge cake or lady fingers. 

Rich recipe — Take enough ripe sweet peaches to make 
a full quart after paring, stoning, and cutting into small 
pieces. Add to them a pint of sugar and let stand an hour, 
then add a quart of cream, place in the freezer and freeze 
ten minutes, then open and add the stiffly beaten whites of 
two eggs that have been beaten with three dessertspoons of 
powdered sugar and a teaspoon of rose flavoring. Close the 
freezer and continue until the cream is hard, then allow it 
to ripen for two hours. Serve with it silver cake or old- 
fashioned pound cake with a soft frosting. 

Frozen Strawberries 

Wash two quarts of fresh strawberries, cut them in 
pieces, sugar well, and let stand in a fairly warm place for a 
couple of hours. Add a quart of sweet cream and the 
beaten whites of two eggs and freeze. Serve either in 
glasses or in parfait cups. 

Frozen Date Custard 

Place a pint of rich milk in a double boiler and when it is 
hot stir in a pinch of salt, three eggs, well beaten, with 
three quarters of a cup of sugar. Cook constantly, stirring 
until the custard is well thickened, remove, and when cold 
fold in a half pint of whipped cream and a teaspoon of 
vanilla, pour into freezer and freeze for six minutes, then 
remove the cover and put in a cupful of chopped seeded 
dates and a half cup of rum ; freeze and serve with a cordial 



Home-made Ice Creams 483 

sauce. Take one cup of sugar and melt in a quarter cup of 
boiling water; allow it to boil four minutes. When cold 
add a gill of apricot cordial, pouring a little over the cus- 
tard. 

Frozen Cherries 

Take four cups of stoned ripe cherries, add two and a 
half cups of sugar, and let stand an hour ; then add a pint of 
rich milk, the beaten whites of two eggs, and a pint of cream. 
Freeze and serve with silver cake. 

Peach Melba 

Select a large ripe peach for each person to be served. 
Dip each peach in boiling water to remove the skin. Place 
a large spoonful of vanilla ice cream on a square of sponge 
cake, lay the peach upon it, turn over it some raspberry 
syrup, and sprinkle crumbed macaroons on top. Have all 
ingredients ready, as the serving must be done before the 
cream melts. 

Apricot Cream 

Add to a half pound of apricot jam a teaspoon of almond 
flavoring, juice of one lemon, and a glass of Noyeau cordial. 
Mix thoroughly, add one pint of cream, and freeze. 

Frozen Plum Puddmg 

Dissolve a half ounce of powdered gelatine in four table- 
spoons of hot water. Cook one cup of sugar in one cup 
of water until it threads from the spoon. Beat the yolks of 
three eggs, add them to the syrup, and beat until cool; then 
add the melted gelatine and fold in two cups of whipped 
cream. When all is mixed, add a half cup of seeded raisins, 
a cup of blanched and chopped almonds, a half pound of 
mixed candied fruits, a teaspoon of vanilla, and two drops of 



484 Home-made Ice Creams 

oil of cloves; turn all into the freezer. When nearly frozen, 
add the stiffly beaten whites of the three eggs that have been 
beaten with a little powdered sugar, and two teaspoons of 
orange flower water. When ready to serve, unmold 
and serve in slices with any good plum-pudding sauce. 

Frozen Apricots 

Pare and cut up enough apricots to equal a quart of solid 
fruit ; add two cups of granulated sugar and a half a cup of 
pineapple juice squeezed from the fresh fruit. Let stand 
four hours; then add a pint of heavy cream and the stiffly 
beaten whites of two fresh eggs. Put into the freezer and 
when half frozen add a wineglass of apricot brandy. 

Nesselrode Pudding 

Blanch forty chestnuts in boiling water, after peeling 
them and removing their husks ; then pound them in a mortar 
until they are perfectly smooth, adding a few spoonfuls of 
vanilla syrup. Rub them through a sieve and mix them in 
a basin with a pint of the vanilla syrup, one pint of cream, 
and the yolks of twelve eggs. Set this mixture over a slow fire, 
without stopping the stirring, until it reaches boiling point. 
Remove from the fire and pass through a sieve. When 
cold, put it in the freezer, adding a tablespoon of ginger 
syrup and two teaspoons of vanilla flavoring. When the 
mixture begins to set, open the freezer and add one ounce 
of candied citron chopped fine, two ounces of carefully 
washed currants, two ounces of stoned raisins, two ounces of 
chopped candied cherries, and one ounce of chopped candied 
pineapple. Cut fine four marron glaces and add them 
also to the mixture, with a pint of whipped cream and the 
whites of three eggs beaten very stiff with a little vanilla 
syrup. Pack individual pudding molds with the mixture. 
Have whipped cream, well drained and chilled, to be served 
with them. 



Home-made Ice Creams 485 

French Frozen Milk Punch 

Take one quart of milk and add to it two cups of sugar, 
let boil up, add a grating of nutmeg, and let cool. When cold 
put into the freezer, adding three cups of whipped cream, 
a teaspoon of vanilla, and a half cup of rum. Freeze and 
when almost frozen open again and add a half cup of French 
brandy. Let stand an hour to ripen before using. 

SAUCES TO SERVE WITH ICE CREAM 

Ice cream in days gone by used to be quite sufficient 
unto itself, but nowadays it must have a sauce of some sort 
to add to its richness or some unusual sweetmeat served 
with it, so that it is quite as complicated as any other des- 
sert. There are, however, quite a number of the fruit 
sauces put up in glass that may be purchased. These in- 
clude puree of apricots, strawberries, raspberries, pears, red 
currants, peaches, and plums. Richly preserved fruits and 
those preserved whole are very popular served beside the 
creams. 

Homemade sauces are varied and may be used hot or 
cold. One is made of strained honey, heated, and has 
blanched and chopped hazel nuts added. Another tasteful 
one is maple syrup with chopped walnuts. Marshmallow 
syrup with pecan nuts, vanilla syrup with pistachio nuts, 
chocolate sauce and whipped cream with grated pineapple 
are also well known and liked. 

Fresh fruit jellies are another favorite sweet to serve 
with cream. The jelly is occasionally molded and arranged 
between bricks of cream and when the whole is served it is 
cut across so as to leave it like a layer cake in effect. 

Sauce " Honey Love " 

This sauce is to use with French vanilla cream. Chop 
fine a half cup of English walnuts, a thin strip of angelica, 
six seeded raisins, four maraschino cherries; add a cup of 



4^6 Home-made Ice Creams 

strained honey, to which the juice of half a lemon has been 
added. A tablespoon of sherry or of rum added is an 
improvement, but not a necessity. Pour the mixture over 
the ice cream, heap a tablespoon of whipped cream on top 
and decorate with a cherry. 

Green Almond Sauce for Ice Cream 

In making this sauce for the ice cream, get a jar of green 
almonds, drain, and slice them through the kernel, which is 
soft when the nut is green, then add as much of the liquor in 
which they were preserved as is needed. Pour over each 
portion of ice cream, then put a spoonful of whipped cream 
on the top and one whole almond in the center by way of 
a garnish. 

Strawberry Sauce 

For the strawberry sauce to go with the pistachio cream 
use a pint of small, sweet strawberries chopped fine. Cover 
with sugar and allow them to stand in a warm place until 
the sugar is thoroughly melted, then put the mixture 
through a puree sieve. Add to it large berries cut in quar- 
ters and chill before serving with the cream. 

Meringue and Whipped Cream Sauce 

Beat the whites of four eggs very stiff, adding three table- 
spoons of powdered sugar and a teaspoon of vanilla to 
them. Turn out a quart of vanilla ice cream frozen very 
hard, cover in with the meringue thickly, and put it 
into a very hot oven until the meringue is lightly browned . 
or, if the oven is not hot enough to do it quickly, then 
drop the eggs in spoonfuls on a lightly buttered paper, 
brown in the oven, and place them over the ice cream. 
Have ready one pint of whipped cream, to which has been 
added two tablespoons of finely chopped pecan nuts and 
two teaspoons of Anisette cordial, and put a spoonful on 
each portion. 



Home-made Ice Creams 487 

Chocolate Sauce 

Dissolve one half cake of chocolate in one cup of milk, 
bring to boiling point, then add a half cup of sugar, a small 
piece of butter, and let boil for four or five minutes; remove 
from the fire, add two teaspoons of vanilla, and set aside to 
cool but do not chill. This sauce may be used over vanilla 
or chocolate cream. 

Pineapple Sauce 

Grate one fresh ripe pineapple, add to it two cups of 
sugar, two tablespoons of finely chopped preserved ginger, 
with two tablespoons of the ginger syrup; mix until all is 
melted together, and it is ready to use. 

Maple Sauce 

Melt one pound of maple sugar in one pint of boiling 
water, let boil five minutes, strain, and add a cup and a half 
of chopped walnuts. 

Chestnut Sauce 

Take a cupful of boiled chestnuts, chop them into small 
pieces, and add a pint of spiced white syrup made of two cups 
of white sugar boiled with a cup of water. When it has 
boiled and cleared, add a teaspoon of vanilla. A spice bag 
and a lemon rind used in boiHng give a delicious savory 
flavor. 

Sea Foam Sauce 

Beat the white of one egg with a half cup of powdered 
sugar to a stiff froth. Whip one cup of cream stiff and 
drain it. Mix all together and beat in a tablespoon of 
sherry. Chill, and dust with nutmeg. 

NOVEL WAYS TO SERVE ICE CREAM 

Variety of ways to serve ice cream is perhaps more impor- 
tant than variety of creams to be served. There are many 



488 Home-macle Ice Creams 

pretty individual molds into which the cream may be 
packed, but this means a good deal of work, and there are 
other ways of serving cream that are easier and just as 
effective. 

For example, one way is to halve large oranges and re- 
move the pulp carefully, throw the shells into cold water 
until they are needed. Make a good orange jelly out of 
the pulp, wipe half of the orange shells dry, fill them with 
the jelly, and set them away to chill. When ready to serve 
wipe the other half of the skins dry and fill with ice cream, 
smoothing off the tops evenly, then turn a jelly-filled half 
and an ice cream-filled half together. Tie them in place 
with narrow white satin ribbon, draw a spoon through the 
bow and lay them on a paper doily on the plate, with a 
square of delicate cake beside them, and serve. 

Ice Cream Sandwiches 

Split in half lengthwise as many little sponge cakes 
as there are guests to be served. Whip a cup of cream; 
have the ice cream frozen very hard in a square mold, then 
cut slices from it the size of the cakes, and lay the cakes up 
with it in sandwich form. Put the whipped cream into 
the pastry bag, squeeze a rose on top of each sandwich, and 
serve. 

Raspberry Rings 

Make a good clear raspberry gelatine jelly, turn it into 
wet individual ring molds, allowing one to each cover, and 
let it set. When ready turn out onto plates and put a 
spoonful of raspberry ice and vanilla cream in the center of 
each mold, decorating the top with a little whipped cream 
put through a pastry bag. 

Banana Boats 

Select large, mellow bananas, and cut out lengthways one 
strip of the peel ; then hollow out the banana without break- 



Home-made Ice Creams 489 

ing the skin. Throw the boats into cold water and allow 
them to remain there until needed. Make banana ice 
cream in the usual way ; when ready, drain and dry the boats 
with a soft cloth and fill them smoothly with the banana 
ice cream, dust the top of each with a little powdered dry 
macaroon, and serve with nut hermits. 

Frozen Peach Shortcake 

Make two thin layers of rich cup cake, the same as for 
layer cake. Have ready a quart of frozen peaches, spread 
one of the layers thickly with the peaches, put on the other 
layer, and spread it thinly with frozen fruit, heaping whipped 
cream on top. Save enough of the peach juice before freez- 
ing to make a small tureen of peach syrup to serve with the 
shortcake. Serve immediately after putting together. 

Pineapple Cones 

Pare carefully medium sized pineapples and cut them in 
half, slicing a little from each end so that they will stand 
steadily. With a sharp knife hollow out the center core. 
Dust the pineapple cup with sugar and fill with cream, 
sprinkling the top with finely chopped candied cherries. 
Squeeze the hard cores and add the juice, with a tablespoon 
of ginger syrup, to a cup of sugar syrup made from half 
a cup of sugar and half a cup of water. Serve the sauce 
with the cream cones. 

Watermelon Boat 

Cut a ripe melon lengthways, and hollow out the meat 
with a tablespoon, dropping the pieces into an enamel sieve 
set in a bowl of cracked ice. When the melon is ready 
fill half with pink orange ice and half with pistachio cream, 
and garnish the edge with fancy rounds of melon, serving 
two with each portion. Small cantaloupes are also pretty 
cut in half and filled one half with yellow orange ice and 



490 Home-macle Ice Creams 

the other half with the pistachio cream, or one half with 
raspberry ice and the other with chocolate cream. 

Frozen Rice Pudding 

Put six ounces of rice into a stewpan with one quart of 
milk and a half pound of sugar. Cook until the rice is soft 
(if the milk cooks away, add a little more), then add the 
beaten yolks of six eggs and a tablespoon of vanilla. When 
slightly thickened stand aside to cool, then turn into a 
freezer ; after freezing for ten minutes open and add the egg 
whites beaten stiff with a little powdered sugar. Have 
ready a dish of stewed apricots that have rich syrup and 
have been chilled, turn out the frozen pudding, pour the 
fruit around it, and heap with whipped cream. 

Frozen Cream 

Whip a quart of cream till quite firm, lay it on a sieve, 
and when well drained mix into it eight ounces of icing sugar 
and fill round-shaped molds with it, pack in ice, freeze 
an hour for each quart, and unmold them in a very cold 
dish. 

Make a hole in the top of this molded ice cream and 
fill in a macedoine of fruits and serve with a chocolate 
sauce. Serve small chocolate puffs around the edge of the 
dish. 

SHERBETS AND ICES 

Sherbets and ices make easy and refreshing desserts for 
warm days and may be prepared several hours before they 
are needed, leaving only the actual freezing to be done at 
the last minute. An ice or a sherbet, being less rich than 
ice cream, is often preferred at luncheon time, while many 
people enjoy a fruit sherbet in place of the ordinary break- 
fast fruit. 

Ices may be colored almost any color desired to follow 



Home-made Ice Creams 491 

the general color scheme of the table decoration on special 
occasions. Sherbets are often used to break a heavy dinner, 
coming just before the salad course. 

Peach Sherbet 

Pare and cut fine two quarts of fresh ripe peaches, then 
mash them through a sieve. Dissolve one heaping 
tablespoon of gelatine powder in a half gill of hot water; add 
to it a half pint of milk, twelve ounces or a cup and a half 
of sugar, and one pint of cream. Mix all thoroughly, and 
when cold pour into the freezer and freeze. 

Pineapple Sherbet 

One quart of finely chopped preserved pineapple, one 
quart of cream and the stiffly beaten whites of two eggs; 
mix all well together and freeze. Any other sweet fresh fruit 
may be frozen in this way. 

Lemon Sherbet 

Mix the juice of three lemons with one and a half cups 
of sugar; add slowly, constantly stirring, one quart of milk 
(if added slowly it will not curdle), turn into the freezer, and 
freeze. 

Lilac Sherbet 

Warm a half pint of grape jelly or one pint of fresh grape 
juice and dissolve in one cup of sugar. Mix with it one 
quart of rich milk, ice cold, and freeze at once. Serve with 
frosted cakes. 

Plum Sherbet 

Warm one pint of fresh pltmi juice and dissolve in it one 
cup of sugar, then add one quart of rich, cold milk and 
freeze at once. This makes a very pretty colored sherbet. 



492 Home-made Ice Creams 

Gooseberry Sherbet 

Stew one quart of fresh, ripe gooseberries, one pound of 
sugar, and one pint of water together, until the gooseberries 
are thoroughly soft. Throw in the grated peel and juice of 
half a lemon, and six cloves. When done, strain and cool, 
and when cold turn into the freezer, add one quart of cream, 
and freeze at once. 

Banana Sherbet 

Dissolve a half ounce of powdered gelatine in half a cup of 
boiling water. Add two cups of sugar to a quart of cold 
water, boil for ten minutes, and turn it into the gelatine. 
When this is cool, add the strained juice of two lemons and 
four bananas that have been rubbed through a sieve. Beat 
all together and freeze in the usual way. After freezing 
it may stand and harden until it is needed. 

Prune Sherbet 

Stew one pound of large French prunes until they are 
tender, adding no sugar. Remove from the fire, drain, and 
save the juice, in which dissolve a cup and a half of sugar and 
two teaspoons of gelatine powder that has been dissolved in 
a little cold water. When all is melted together, boil five 
minutes. Take the stones from the prunes, then chop 
them, and strain the prune liquor over them; when cold 
add one pint of whipped cream, a tablespoon of vanilla, and 
two egg whites beaten stiff with a tablespoon of sugar. 
Pour in freezer and freeze. 

Rhubarb Sherbet 

Cook two pounds of rhubarb cut in pieces, first allowing it 
to scald in boiling water for five minutes ; drain and add the 
grated rind and juice of one lemon, two cups of sugar, and 
half a cup of cold water. Cook until it is done, then add one 
cup of pineapple juice and one cup of spiced syrup. Put 



Home-made Ice Creams 493 

in the freezer, freeze it partly, and let it stand to ripen. 
When ready to serve, place in sherbet glasses and put 
candied cherries on top. 

Strawberry Parfait 

Rinse, drain, and press through a sieve enough strawber- 
ries to make two thirds of a cup of pulp. Boil one cup of 
sugar with a half cup of water without stirring until the 
syrup spins a short thread when dropped from a fork. 
Pour the mixture slowly over the stiffly beaten whites of 
two eggs and continue to beat until it is cold. As it begins 
to thicken add the fruit pulp, a little at a time. Whip 
one pint of heavy cream. and lightly stir it into the mix- 
ture, then put all into the freezer, first removing the pad- 
dle; cover, pack in ice and salt for three hours to ripen. 
Serve in parfait glasses with a tablespoon of whipped cream 
on top and a ripe strawberry in the center. 

Apricot Parfait 

For the apricot parfait canned fruit will do if the ripe 
fruit is not seasonable. Dissolve one ounce of powdered 
gelatine in half a cup of hot water; add one cup of fruit 
pulp put through a sieve, one tablespoon of lemon juice, half 
a cup of chopped almonds, and one cup of sugar. Then beat 
for a few minutes and fold in two cups of whipped cream 
that has been well chilled. Fill fancy paper cases or par- 
fait glasses; dust over the top a little powdered macaroon 
and place one red cherry or ripe strawberry on top. 

Cafe Parfait 

Pour one pint of boiling water over eight tablespoons 
of ground coffee. Let it stand for ten minutes, then add 
three quarters of a cup of sugar and one half pint of warm 
milk. When cool strain and add one half pint of heavy 
cream and freeze. Fill parfait glasses, adding a tablespoon 



494 Home-made Ice Creams 

of whipped cream to the top of each, and garnish with a 
fresh strawberry. 

Marron Frappe 

Rub two cups of preserved marrons through a sieve, add a 
pint of cream and a cup of the marron syrup to the pulp, 
and half a wineglass of Anisette, then freeze until nearly 
hard. When ready to serve fill frappe glasses, placing a 
tablespoon of whipped cream on the top of each glass with 
a maraschino cherry on top. Serve macaroons or Venetian 
zwieback with the frappe. 

Orange Parfait 

Dissolve half an ounce of powdered gelatine in one 
half cup of hot water and add one cup of sugar and two 
cups of whipped cream. Stir until it begins to thicken, 
then add one tablespoon of orange juice and one glass 
of orange marmalade. Beat all together, then put in one 
large or two small molds and freeze. 

Lemon Ice 

The juice of six lemons and one orange and the grate 
peel of one lemon, one pint of clarified sugar, half a pint of 
clear water ; mix well and freeze. Be sure it is sweet enough 
as the sweetness freezes out some; if not add a little more 
of the sugar. Orange ice is made the same, but with six 
oranges and one lemon. 

Pineapple Ice 

The juice of a fine, ripe pineapple, juice of one lemon, 
half a pint of clear water, and a pint of clarified sugar; strain 
and freeze. This quantity is sufficient for eight people. 

Cherry Ice 

Take three cups of ripe cherries and one quart of water. 
Cook gently until the cherries are soft; then strain, thicken 



Home-made Ice Creams 495 

with a little cornstarch to the consistency of honey, add two 
cups of sugar, stir until it is all smooth, then strain into the 
freezer. A little red coloring added improves the appear- 
ance. 

Strawberry Ice 

Stew three quarts of strawberries in a half pint of water 
over a slow fire, strain the juice, adding a pint of clarified 
sugar, a wineglass of sherry ; mix well and freeze. 

Orange Ice 

The juice of six ripe oranges, the juice of one lemon, one 
quart of water, and one pound of sugar. Mix thoroughly 
and strain, add one gill of rich, sweet cream, and freeze 
instantly. 

Raspberry Ice 

Squeeze enough fresh, ripe raspberries through a jelly 
bag to give three pints of juice, add a pound of pulverized 
sugar, place in the freezer and freeze. Another way is to 
heat four quarts of the berries, adding four pints of sugar 
and a pint of water. When hot and nearly at the boiling 
point, add a tablespoon and a half of gelatine dissolved in a 
little cold water ; when at the boiling point, strain, and when 
cold, freeze. 

Grape Ice 

One pint of grape juice, the juice of four lemons, the juice 
of one orange, one pint of sugar, and a pint of water. Heat 
and mix all together; then add one tablespoon of cornstarch 
dissolved in a little water. Let come to boiling point and 
when slightly thickened strain into the freezer and freeze. 

Ginger Water Ice 

To one quart of lemon water ice add six ounces of pre- 
served ginger, chopped as fine as possible, and a tablespoon 
of ginger syrup ; mix well and freeze. 



49^ Home-made Ice Creams 

Frozen Fruit Juice 

A good way to use up any syrup left from preserv- 
ing, is to freeze it. Dissolve one teaspoon of powdered 
gelatine in a little hot water, add to it two ounces of sugar, 
and when cool, two cups of the fruit syrup. Beat very 
stifE the whites of two eggs, fold them in, and freeze. 

MOUSSES 

A general recipe for the making of mousse is here given. 
One cup of any of the dried fruits, after they have been 
stewed and put through a puree sieve, may be added to 
make the mousse, either peach, apricot, or apple, or any 
chosen kind. 

Dissolve one teaspoon of gelatine in two tablespoons of 
hot water, add to it when thoroughly dissolved a half cup of 
boiling milk, next add one cup of any fruit pulp desired, 
three tablespoons of orange juice, and fold in two cups of 
whipped cream. Put the mixture into a chilled mold and 
pack the mold in salt and ice for four hours. 

Honey Mousse 

Beat the yolks of four eggs lightly and then add to them 
gradually half a cup of strained honey, and heat slowly 
until thick, stirring constantly. Remove from the fire, and 
when cool add the beaten whites of the eggs, then add one 
pint of whipped cream; blend all together, put into the 
freezer, and when thoroughly chilled open and add a cupful 
of rum. Close, and pack in salt and ice until ready for 
use. When serving, add a cordial glass of apricot brandy 
to each portion. Macaroons or silver cake are best with 
the mousse. 

Chestnut Mousse 

Take one pound of French chestnuts, peel, blanch, and put 
them to boil in a small quantity of water; when very soft put 
them through a puree sieve and add to them six ounces of 



Home-matle Ice Creams 497 

sugar flavored with a teaspoon of vanilla, and beat until 
quite smooth. Add one cup of sweetened whipped cream 
and pour the mixture into a chilled mold. Solder on the 
cover with flour and water paste to make sure no salt gets 
in, then bury the mold in the freezer, and let it remain 
there for one hour. When ready to serve, dip the mold in 
hot water, wipe it carefully ; then turn the mousse out onto a 
napkin, folded crown shape, and send at once to the table. 

Maple Mousse 

Dissolve one teaspoon of powdered gelatine in four table- 
spoons of hot water ; add the beaten yolks of six eggs and one 
large cup of maple syrup. Stir over the fire until the mix- 
ture thickens, but do not allow it to boil. Pour it into a 
bowl and beat until cool. When cool, fold in one pint of 
whipped cream that has been well drained. Put the mix- 
ture into individual molds or one large mold, and pack for 
five hours. When ready to serve, unmold and dust over 
the top one cup of blanched powdered sweet almonds. 
Serve with silver or angel cake. 

Strawberry Mousse 

Wash, hull, and halve one box of ripe, firm strawberries, 
sprinkle with a cup of sugar, and let stand one hour. Dis- 
solve one tablespoon of gelatine in two tablespoons of cold 
water, then add three of hot water; mash the berries and 
run them through a fine sieve and then add the gelatine ; set 
in a pan of ice water and stir until it begins to thicken, then 
fold in one quart of whipped cream, put in the freezer, and 
pack in salt and ice for five hours. 

Pineapple Mousse 

Add to two cups of sugar, one and one half cups of water, 
and one and one half tablespoons of cornstarch. Mix well 
and boil until clear. Add one quart of rich preserved pine- 



498 Home-made Ice Creams 

apple or a large ripe fresh one to the juice of two lemons, 
enough clear water to make two full quarts, and the stiffly 
beaten whites of two eggs. Put the mixture in a mold and 
pack. 



I 



HOME-MADE CANDIES 

Simple recipes insure the most successful results and 
offer fewer complications to the inexperienced. Failures 
are too expensive to repeat often. For real success in candy 
making one needs a few small utensils, which should be kept 
solely for candy use. A clean, good iron frying pan, 
medium sized, for sugar browning, wooden and enamel 
spoons, white enamel dishes for mixing, limber spatula knife, 
shallow candy pans of three sizes, a spool of copper wire, a 
round bottomed, smooth iron pot, one or two enamel sauce- 
pans, and a pair of shears. 

For the old-fashioned candy pull the iron pothook, which 
screws against the wall shoulder high, will be found a great 
saving of time and burned fingers. Canvas gloves also 
enable one to handle the hot mass and are easily laundered. 
A long, sharp knife of uniform thickness and limber blade 
is best for cutting fudge or other candies in different 
shapes. The best butter, confectioner's sugar, the best 
nuts, and the best quality of flavorings, pure molasses, finest 
clover honey, pure almond paste, rich sweet milk, and the 
highest grade of chocolate must be used in the different 
recipes to obtain perfection in candy making. 

Children like to make candy and it is well to have at hand 
simple and inexpensive recipes. 

Holiday Panocha 

Four cups of brown sugar, one scant cup of milk; let boil 
seven minutes; add one teaspoon of vanilla, a tablespoon of 
butter, and two cups of English walnuts. Whip to a cream 
and pour it into a lightly buttered pan to cool. 

499 



500 Home-made Candies 

Butter Scotch 

Take one cup of molasses, one cup of white sugar, a half 
cup of butter, and a half cup of water ; mix them and cook 
over a slow fire until a little is firm when dropped into cold 
water. When done stir in a half teaspoon of bicarbonate of 
soda, and pour into well buttered shallow candy pans to 
cool. 

Hickory Nut Candy 

Put one pound of sugar, one tablespoon of vegetable oil, 
and half a cup of water in a saucepan, over the fire, and stir 
until the sugar is dissolved. With a damp cloth wipe down 
the sides of the pan and boil gently, without stirring, until 
the syrup spins a heavy thread. Add one cup of hickory 
nut meats, a teaspoon of vanilla flavoring, and turn into a 
shallow baking pan to cool. When cool, cut into squares. 

Molasses Candy to Pull 

One cup of molasses, one cup of sugar ; melt together and 
boil until a drop will harden in cold water (it must harden 
but not become brittle). Add a pinch of baking soda and a 
teaspoon of vinegar and turn out onto two shallow buttered 
pans. Lightly flour the hands and pull as soon as the candy 
can be handled. After pulling white, twist, and cut in one- 
inch pieces with scissors. 

Everton Toffee 

Put one pound of powdered sugar and one teacup of 
cold water into a saucepan ; when the sugar is dissolved add 
a quarter of a pound of butter beaten to a cream. Keep 
stirring the mixture over the fire until it hardens when a 
little is dropped upon a buttered dish. Just before the 
toffee is done add a half teaspoon of lemon flavoring, and 
pour into a shallow buttered pan to cool. This is a popular 
English candy. 



Home-made Candies 501 

Peanut Candy 

Put one pound of sugar into an iron frying pan ; heat the 
pan hot before putting in the sugar and stir vigorously until 
entirely melted. As soon as the sugar is melted, throw in 
three quarters of a pound of shelled and skinned peanuts. 
Stir all quickly a moment, then turn into a buttered pan to 
cool. When slightly cool, mark off in squares. 

Pineapple Marshmallows 

Dissolve one half pound of gum arable in one pint of 
pineapple juice, strain, and add to it one half pound of 
sugar. Place in a saucepan and stir constantly over the 
fire until the syrup is the consistency of honey. Add 
gradually the whites of four well beaten eggs and stir the 
mixture until it becomes somewhat thin and does not adhere 
to the finger. Flavor with a little extra pineapple juice, 
it desired, then pour into a tin that has been slightly dusted 
with powdered starch. Sprinkle a little more starch over 
the top and as it cools mark off in squares. 

Honey Puffs 

Put into a saucepan one cup of cream, three cups of sugar, 
a half cup of honey (strained). When the cream and 
sugar have been boiled together until they thread from 
the spoon add the honey; cook until the syrup will make a 
soft ball when dropped into cold water. Remove from the 
fire, add the beaten white of one egg and a cup of chopped 
nut meats, and when the mixture is firm and creamy shape 
into balls. 

Popping Com in Oil 

Put one third cup of vegetable oil into a frying pan and, 
when it is hot, add almost enough unpopped corn to cover 
the bottom. Cover the pan securely and shake occasion- 
ally while the corn is popping. 



502 Home-made Candies 

Vinegar Candy 

Put into^'a saucepan two cups of sugar, a half cup of 
water, a half cup of vinegar, and a small piece of butter. 
Boil until the candy brittles in cold water. Just before 
removing it from the stove add a cupful of nut meats ; or if 
liked better the candy may be pulled and the nuts omitted. 

Fig Cream 

Three cups of sugar, one cup of cream, half a cup of 
strained honey, and the juice of one large lemon. Cook 
the sugar, cream, and honey to a soft consistency that forms 
a firm, waxy ball when dropped in cold water. Cool the 
mixture, stirring constantly, and when it thickens add 
half a pound of chopped figs and the lemon juice. When 
too thick to pour spread in a buttered pan and cut into 
squares before it gets cold. 

Chocolate Cream Drops 

Take French cream and mold into cone-shaped forms 
with the fingers; then lay the cones on waxed paper or a 
marble slab until the next day to harden; or make them in 
the morning and leave until the afternoon. Melt some 
chocolate in a basin and place in another basin of boiling 
water. When melted and the creams are hard enough to 
handle take one at a time on a fork and drop into the melted 
chocolate, roll it until well covered, and then slip from the 
fork upon waxed paper and put aside to harden. 

Apple Paste 

Take a dozen apples, peel and core them, and put them 
into water, allowing them to remain till they are quite soft. 
Remove and rub them through a fine sieve with a wooden 
spoon. Weigh the pulp and put it in a preserving pan 
with the same weight of sugar. Boil for twenty minutes. 



Home-made Candies 503 

then pour it out thin on plates. When cool cut the paste 
into squares or any other shapes desired. When cut, allow 
it to dry thoroughly in a cool oven. 

Turkish Delight 

Soak two tablespoons of gelatine in one third cup of cold 
water. When dissolved, add one cup of granulated sugar. 
Boil twenty minutes, adding the juice of a half lemon and a 
half orange. Take from the fire, flavor with a teaspoon of 
extract of rose or strawberry, add a quarter cup chopped 
nuts, pour into a greased shallow pan ; cool, cut in squares, 
and roll in pink sugar. 

Turkish Paste 

Boil five pounds of sugar and one quart of water until it 
reaches the thickness of cold honey. Pour in slowly ten 
ounces of wheat starch that has been blended in a little 
water, next add half an ounce, of cream of tartar and stir 
the mixture one way until it gets quite thick or until a drop 
will sustain itself on a plate. When done, pour the mixture 
onto a flat pan which has been sifted lightly with corn- 
starch. Just before removing from the fire add a cup 
of blanched and chopped almonds and a half cup of 
pistachio nuts. 

Baltimore Fudge 

Two pounds of granulated sugar, one pint of milk, a 
quarter pound of butter, half a cake unsweetened chocolate 
grated. Melt slowly to the boiling point, then boil from 
seven to ten minutes, trying on a cold plate just before 
removing from the fire. Add two teaspoons of good vanilla 
flavoring. When it sets on the cold plate remove at once 
from the fire or it will granulate. Pour into Hghtlv but- 
tered pans and when cool enough cut into squares. 



504 Home-made Candies 

Cocoanut Fudge 

Into a clean granite saucepan put three cups of granu- 
lated sugar, one cup of milk, and a tablespoon of butter with 
the grated meat of one small cocoanut. Stir the mixture 
and allow it to boil up for one minute, then remove from the 
fire and beat until it begins to grain; turn into lightly but- 
tered pans and allow it to cool. Before removing it from the 
fire drop a little into cold water and stop its boiling when 
the cold water turns it into a soft ball. It should be cut in 
the pan before it gets too firmly set. 

Maple Fudge 

One pound maple sugar and one cup milk. Bring to a 
boil and add a tablespoon of butter. Cook until it becomes 
brittle when tested in cold water. Remove from the fire, 
stir vigorously until it begins to granulate around the 
edge of the kettle, and then pour into a buttered pan. 

Nut Creams 

Chop almonds, hickory nuts, butternuts, or English wall- 
nuts quite fine. Make the French cream, and before 
adding all the sugar and while the cream is still quite soft 
stir into it the nuts and then form into balls, bars, or 
squares. Three or four kinds of nuts may be mixed together. 

Almond Rolls 

One half pound of almond paste, one pound of very fine 
powdered sugar, two tablespoons of lemon juice, the white of 
one unbeaten egg ; knead into the paste gradually the sugar, 
lemon juice, and egg; form the mixture into cylinders, roll 
them into melted chocolate, and sprinkle with finely pow- 
dered almonds; place in a pan in a slow drying oven until 
slightly hardened. 



Home-made Oaiidies 5^5 

Cream Chocolate 

Two pounds of granulated sugar, a cup of sweet cream, a 
tablespoon of butter, and a half cake of chocolate, grated. 
Melt the ingredients together in a smooth iron pot and let 
boil evenly eight to ten minutes, testing on a cold plate very 
often. 

When done pour in a lightly buttered shallow pan and 
set. While it is cooling mark off into squares. If wrapped 
in waxed paper it will not dry out. Before moving from 
the fire add a teaspoon of good vanilla flavoring, as it 
improves the taste. 

Do not boil it too long or it will become like fudge. 
Using cream instead of milk makes it more like that which 
is imported. 

A Recipe Popular in 1770 

To make "March-pane" — take a pound of Jordan 
almonds, blanch and beat them in a marble mortar very 
fine ; then put to them three quarters of a pound of double 
refined sugar, and beat them with a few drops of orange- 
flower water; beat all together till 'tis a very good paste, 
then roll it into what shape you please. 

French Fondant or French Cream 

Two cups of sugar, one cup of water. Stir the sugar and 
water together until mixed; do not stir after it has come 
to the boiling point, stir only enough to prevent sticking 
at the bottom; boil until a soft ball forms when dropped 
into cold water ; remove from the fire and place saucepan in 
a pan of cold water. Allow the mixture to stand until it is 
cool; add half a teaspoon of vanilla; then beat until it forms 
a white mass which leaves the edge of the pan ; knead it well 
until it is perfectly smooth and no hard grains remain. 

With a very little practice expert molding may easily be 
accomplished. A marble slab is best to use in kneading 



5o6 Home-made Candies 

and molding fondant. The slab is cool and marble is a bet- 
ter molding surface than wood. 

Wintergreen Bonbons 

Prepare the fondant as directed. Flavor with essence of 
wintergreen. Color a delicate pink or a very delicate green. 
Form into oblong bonbons by rolling a small round ball and 
then flattening it with the palm of the hand. 

Candied Strawberries 

Berries and sugar in the proportion of pound to pound. 
Wash berries carefully, a few at a time, before capping. 
Put berries and sugar together into a kettle on the back 
of the stove. Let stand until the extracted juice covers the 
fruit; then put on the fire and cook exactly fifteen minutes 
after it begins to boil. Turn into a crock and let stand over- 
night. Put in glass jars and keep in a dark closet. 

Holiday Pralines 

The ordinary nut sweets are so rich that their free use is 
prohibitive, but the pralines are so simple that they may be 
eaten without fear of illness. 

Use the best quality of nuts and make the dainty in two 
sizes. Hickory nuts cracked and halved, filberts, blanched 
and dried, and pecans in halves should be used for the 
small pralines. Blanch Brazil nuts and princess nuts and 
halve English walnuts for the larger pralines. 

Take one cup of sugar, three quarters of a cup of water, 
and boil until it threads from the spoon and is almost 
ready to sugar; turn the nuts in quickly and stir rapidly 
while it sugars. Throw them into a large flour sieve, sift 
off the loose sugar, separating them if they have stuck 
together while they cool. When cold, pack them in wax 
paper lined. boxes until ready to use. 



Home-made Candies 507 

Pistachio Pralines 

Blanch one pound of pistachio nuts. Dissolve one pound 
of sugar in half a cup of water, let it boil until it forms a little 
ball when dropped into cold water; add the nuts and stir 
quickly until they have taken up all the sugar, and continue 
stirring until the sugar syrup or caramel has granulated 
about them. Then throw them onto a sieve, sprinkle them 
lightly with a little orange or rose flavoring, and shake off 
all the loose sugar. 



BEVERAGES 
Coffee 

Its making and serving and its effect upon the health 
are always subjects of interest to housekeepers. One 
may get some idea of the number of ways of making it from 
the numerous percolators and coffee pots on the market, for 
each family seems to have its own particular method, 
which appears to require a special utensil. 

Though excellent brands of coffee are to be had many 
people still prefer to roast their own, and here is a hint which 
may be of service. After obtaining the brand of green 
coffee that is best liked add to each three pounds of it 
before roasting a piece of butter the size of a walnut and a 
dessertspoon of powdered sugar. The addition of the butter 
and sugar develops the flavor and aroma of the berry. 

The usual rule in making coffee is to allow one tablespoon 
of coffee (ground) to each cup of water; whether the water 
is cold or boiling is a matter decided by the method each 
housekeeper uses. 

Cafe au Lait 

Make one quart of very strong coffee ; strain and add one 
pint of hot milk and a half pint of cream and a half pint of 
whipped cream and sugar to taste. This may be served hot 
for breakfast or in the afternoon chilled for those who prefer 
it to tea. 

Cafe Noir 

Make a quart of strong coffee and boil two cloves with it. 
In each after-dinner cup place one lump of sugar and one 

508 



Beverages 509 

teaspoon of apricot brandy, plain brandy, or Anisette 
cordial. 

Tea 

To make the best tea the water must be jumping and 
boiling when the tea is added, and be at once removed from 
the fire when the tea is added, covered closely, and allowed 
to infuse for three to five minutes. Never reheat tea. If 
it is to stand at all, during the service of a meal or for any 
other reason, strain it at once, after the infusing period, into 
a clean, hot pot. A heaping tablespoon of tea to a quart of 
boiling water is the usual recipe. 

Chocolate and Cocoa 

In making chocolate allow a half ounce of chocolate to 
every half pint of water or milk. This applies also to the 
individual cakes that come, to use one to a cup, or a half 
tablespoon of grated chocolate to a cup. It should be put 
into the hot liquid, brought to the boiling point, and sweet- 
ened with two or three teaspoons of sugar according to 
taste. Whipped cream may be added to make the choco- 
late richer. 

In making cocoa allow two tablespoons of cocoa to one 
quart of milk. Mix the cocoa smooth with a little boiling 
water, then add it to the hot milk with a half cup of sugar. 
Boil up once, strain, and serve. If the cocoa is for children 
and not wanted quite as rich, it may be made of half milk 
and half water. 

Any of the foregoing four drinks may be served iced. 

COCKTAILS 

The mixing of drinks is sometimes rather problematical in 
households where it is not of daily occurrence and recipes 
are not at hand to help one out in emergency. So here are 
just a few cocktail secrets and just a few wine cup hints. 



5IO Beverages 

The home equipment for drink mixing includes an ice 
shaver, cocktail shaker, lemon squeezer, strainer, long 
handled spoon and toddy stick, sharp knives, a jigger for 
measuring, and proper glasses. A cracked ice bowl with 
tiny silver tongs is always on the tray. 

Abemarle Bracer 

Into a whiskey glass pour one half jigger of picon bitters, 
a half jigger of brandy, a half jigger of green creme de 
menthe, a dash of absinthe, and a tablespoon of shaved ice. 
Shake, strain, and serve. 

Bronx CocktaU 

One dash orange bitters, one third jigger of Italian ver- 
mouth, one third jigger of French vermouth, and one third 
jigger of Gordon gin. Frappe and strain into cocktail 
glass, squeeze a piece of orange peel on top and droq it into 
the glass. 

Coffee Cocktail 

Take a pony of port wine, a pony of brandy, a teaspoon of 
powdered sugar, and one fresh egg, mix in tumbler half filled 
with shaved ice, then strain into cocktail glass and grate a 
little nutmeg over the top. 

American Beauty 

Into the mixer half filled with shaved ice put two dashes 
of grenadine syrup, one third jigger of Italian vermouth, 
and two thirds jigger of Tom gin. Stir well and strain into 
cocktail glass with a red cherry in the bottom. 

Chanticleer 

Chanticleer, a most popular cocktail, is made of one 
half Gordon gin, one fourth French vermouth, one fourth 
Italian vermouth, and a dash of orange bitters. Four 



Beverages 5^1 

bruised mint leaves, one clove, and a tiny strip of lemon peel 
are added while it is being shaken to perfectly blend it; then 
it is strained into a chilled glass and served. 

Absinthe Cocktail 

Put a cup of cracked ice in the shaker with three or four 
dashes of syrup, one dash of angostura bitters, one dash 
Anisette, one quarter wineglass of seltzer, three quarters 
wineglass of absinthe. Shake well until almost frozen, strain 
into cocktail glass, squeeze a bit of lemon peel on top, and 
serve. 

Swan Cocktail 

One half jigger of gin, one quarter jigger of French ver- 
mouth, one quarter jigger of Italian vermouth, juice of one 
lime, frappe, and serve ; put an olive in the glass. 

Orange Blossom 

Turn over the ice in the shaker one third jigger of orange 
juice, two thirds of jigger of Gordon gin, dash of orange 
bitters, shake well, strain into cocktail glass, drop in each 
glass one marron. 

Champagne Cocktail 

Two slices of orange, one slice of diced pineapple, one 
lump of sugar, two dashes of angostura bitters, a jigger of 
Monopole champagne. Shake well and turn into the glass, 
adding two fresh strawberries. 

Ruby Cocktail 

One third jigger Italian vermouth, two thirds jigger of 
sloe gin, frappe and strain into cocktail glass, adding one 
creme de menthe cherry. 



512 Beverages 

Moonlight Cocktail 

One third jigger dubonnet bitters, one third each of 
French vermouth and Gordon gin, frappe and strain into 
glass with one white grape. 

Zaza Cocktail 

One half jigger each of Gordon gin and dubonnet bitters, 
frappe and strain into cocktail glass with red cherry in the 
bottom. 

Clover Club 

The juice of half a lemon, a sixth jigger of grenadine, 
one jigger of gin, and the white of an egg. Shake with 
shaved ice, then strain into a claret glass and put a clover 
mint on top of each. 

Martini 

Into a half tumbler of shaved ice put a dash of orange 
bitters, a jigger each of vermouth and old Tom gin, and a 
few drops of lemon juice; shake well and strain into glass. 

Manhattan 

Into a half tumbler of shaved ice put two dashes of bitters, 
two thirds jigger of whiskey, and one third jigger of Italian 
vermouth. Shake well and strain into glass, putting a 
squeezing of lemon peel on top. 

Rose Cocktail 

Rose cocktails are made of golden gin and vermouth, 
with a teaspoon of rose water, and petals of roses scattered 
on the top. 



Deverag'es 513 

FRUIT COCKTAILS 

Cheny Cocktail 

Wash, stone, and halve ripe, firm ox-heart cherries, drain, 
and chill. Spice, sweeten, and chill the juice, and pour over 
the fruit when ready to serve. 

Strawberry Cocktail 

Wash, hull, and halve firm ripe cherries, chill the fruit, and 
when ready to serve add enough spiced strawberry syrup to 
moisten the fruit and serve with a firm stick of fresh cinna- 
mon upon which the fruit is speared. 

Grapefruit Cocktail 

Remove the fruit carefully from the bitter skin and place 
in a bowl on ice until needed. Then add juice of one lemon, 
a wineglass of sherry, four teaspoons of powdered sugar, 
and a dash of nutmeg. Place in the glasses and garnish 
with red cherries. 

Pineapple Cocktail 

The cocktails are made by cutting three or four balls of 
pineapple with a cutter for each glass, roll them in powdered 
sugar and a little apricot brandy. When ready to serve pour 
over them the cocktail of vermouth and golden gin. 

Alligator Pear Cocktail 

Pare and seed one alligator pear, then dice it. Add to it a 
teaspoon of ketchup, six drops of tabasco, one teaspoon each 
of Worcestershire sauce and chutney syrup, and juice of a 
lemon. Chill and serve in cocktail glasses. 



514 Beverages 

WINE CUPS 
Champagne Cup 

Two ponies of cognac, two of white oiragoa, two of mar- 
aschino, the juice of two lemons, one bottle club soda, 
and one quart of champagne ; berries in season and one strip 
of cucumber rind. Sweeten to taste, and if served at once 
a small lump of ice will do no harm. A few sprigs of mint 
may be added by way of decoration. 

Claret Cup 

Juice of two lemons and one orange; two ponies of bene- 
dictine and two of curagoa, a bottle of claret, and one of 
apollinaris water. Sweeten to taste; any small fruits on 
hand can be dropped in as cut strawberries, slices of banana, 
cherries, raspberries, or bits of pineapple. 

Moselle Cup 

Juice of half a pineapple, three lemons and two oranges; 
a pony of apricot brandy, one of brandy, a stick of cinna- 
mon, and three cloves; one bottle of sparkling moselle, one 
of imported ginger ale. Add diced pineapple, red cherries, 
and a few sprays of mint. Chill and serve. 

Sauterne cup is made in the same way as the champagne, 
substituting the sauterne for champagne. Rhine wine cup 
is also made the same way. 

Rose Cup 

Juice of six oranges, eight lemons, one small pineapple, 
pint of juicy cherries, and juice of one box of strawberries. 
When all the juice is squeezed strain carefully through a 
cheesecloth, wet with cold water, then add a glass of apricot 
brandy and a pound of sugar that has been melted in a cup 
of clear boiling water and a gill of rose water. Let stand and 
mellow, and when ready to use add a bottle of sparkling 



Beverages 515 

moselle and a bottle of apollinaris water and the ice. Over 
the top slice thinly a few large strawberries and scatter a 
few rose petals. 

Mulled Cider 

To two quarts of cider add one nutmeg crushed, not 
grated, fine; six whole cloves, and three sticks of cinnamon. 
Add half a cup of light brown sugar. Simmer gently, 
never allowing it to boil. Keep it lightly covered and cook 
fifteen minutes. Serve steaming hot. 

Hot Spiced Cider 

This may be used to carry out the old wassail bowl at 
holiday time if desired. Take three quarts of good cider and 
put it into a clean saucepan, adding a gill of sugar syrup 
flavored with vanilla, a small spice bag, and a strip of lemon 
peel. Let come to boiling point, let stand at that heat for 
fifteen minutes, then turn into the punch bowl and put over 
the top a few baked apples that have been cored and baked 
with cinnamon and sugar. Serve smoking hot. 

Mulled Wine 

Father Knickerbocker's Christmas beverage was mulled 
wine in the early days when old New York was young, 
and it was made in this way. Take one pint of water, one 
pound of sugar, six cloves, a half stick of cinnamon, a salt- 
spoon of allspice, a half grated nutmeg, and the grated rind 
of a lemon. Let come to boiling point and stir until all 
ingredients are thoroughly blended, then add a quart of fine 
old port wine and let all come to boiling point again ; then 
strain into grog glasses or mugs, putting a cinnamon stick in 
each by way of a toddy stick. 

Blackberry Cordial 

To two quarts of blackberry juice squeezed cold add four 
pounds of sugar, boil ten minutes, and skim. Then add a 



5i6 Beverages 

spice bag and one quart of good brandy, boil ten minutes 
and cool, then bottle and seal. 

PUNCHES 

The fault often found with American drinks is that they 
are served too cold, so that their delicacy of flavor is lost; 
the proper way to do is to have all of the ingredients chilled 
before mixing together, then place the bowl containing the 
punch in a bowl of cracked ice, which keeps it chilled but 
there is no cracked ice in the punch to dilute it and destroy 
its flavor. 

Christmas Punch 

Juice of six oranges, six lemons, two grapefruit, one grated 
pineapple, two cups of sugar melted in one cup of hot water 
then cooled, one cup of strong Ceylon tea; when all is chilled 
add four quarts of water turned over a block of ice in the 
punch bowl. Drain a small bottle of maraschino cherries, 
and float them on top with a few candied mint leaves. 

Rum Punch 

One quart Jamaica rum, two quarts of Medford, one 
quart brandy, a half pint of sherry, one gill each of cura^oa 
and maraschino, a pint of lemon juice, a half pound of sugar, 
and a pot of tea. Add sliced lemons, or oranges, pine- 
apples, and pitted cherries. Add two quarts of apollinaris 
and two of ginger ale. Pour over a lump of ice in the punch 
bowl. 

Philadelphia Fish House Pimch 

Three fourths of a pound of white sugar dissolved in 
water; one third of a pint of lemon juice; one half pint 
cognac, one fourth pint each of Jamaica rum and peach 
brandy, and one quart of apollinaris water. Turn into the 
punch bowl over a block of ice. 



Beverages 5^7 

Ginger Punch 

To the juice of twelve lemons add half a small bottle each 
of green and red maraschino cherries, three sliced oranges 
and the juice of one small pineapple, and a quart of filtered 
water and sweeten to taste. Set away to chill and mellow. 
When ready to serve add ice and six bottles of ginger ale. 

Pumpkin Punch for Thanksgiving 

Boil and strain one small pumpkin, add one pint of sugar 
and one pint of molasses, one pint of apricot brandy, grating 
of nutmeg, juice of three lemons and three oranges. Let 
stand three hours, strain, add ice and one pint bottle of 
champagne and two quarts of vichy. Serve in a hollow 
pumpkin shell pointed at the top. 

Gnome Punch 

One pint of Catawba wine and a small spice bag, juice 
and rind of one lemon, a cup of sugar, and grating of nutmeg ; 
heat to boiling point, let stand and cool, strain, and add one 
pint of ginger ale and two bottles of vichy, ice, and a bottle 
of cocktail chestnuts. Serve in punch glasses. 

Hongkong Cooler 

Pour one quart of boiling water over three tablespoons of 
Ceylon tea; let steep five minutes; strain and cool; while 
cooling add four tablespoons sugar, three slices lemon, two 
cloves, and four maraschino cherries. When ready to 
serve pour in tall glasses half full of shaved ice, adding a 
dash of Jamaica rum to each glass. Place a spray of mint 
on top of each glass. 

Grape Cooler 

Remove the segments from a large firm grapefruit, 
placing them in a small enamel strainer to drain; chill one 



5l8 Beverages 

quart bottle of grape juice. Place the fruit on cracked 
ice in the punch bowl, add sugar to taste, and add one bottle 
of sparkling water. 

Fruit Punch 

Juice of three lemons and three oranges, one quart of pine- 
apple juice, two lemons and two oranges thinly sliced, one 
box of ripe strawberries cut in half, one pound of sugar ; mix 
ingredients, turn over cracked ice in the punch bowl, and 
add one quart of apollinaris water. 

Pineapple Punch 

Add to the juice of three lemons and a pound of sugar two 
quart bottles of pineapple juice, two slices fresh pineapple 
diced, turn over cracked ice in the punch bowl, and add just 
before serving two bottles of imported ginger ale. 

Fisherman^s Punch 

Grate one pineapple and add one pound of powdered 
sugar, juice of three lemons, grated peel of one, and a small 
jar of preserved ginger. Turn in the syrup and chop the 
ginger up very fine. When ready to serve add three bottles 
of ginger ale, cracked ice, and a large bottle of champagne. 

Hot Chocolate Punch 

Make a quart of rich hot chocolate, add one small cup of 
Jamaica rum, one pint of whipped cream, and one tablespoon 
of syrup of ginger and serve hot. 

Mint Julep 

Melt one cup of sugar in one cup of boiling water; let 
cool ; bruise three or four sprigs of mint and throw into the 
mixture; as it cools half fill punch glasses with shaved ice, 
add one tablespoon of the syrup to each glass, put three or 
four sprigs of mint in the glass, first dipping it in cold water 



Beverages 519 

and dusting it with powdered sugar; fill the glass with Mount 
Vernon whiskey. 

Cherry Flip 

Stone and squeeze the juice from two quarts of ripe 
cherries, throw in half a cup of stoned cherries. Melt 
a pound of sugar in a pint of boiling water; as it simmers for 
three minutes add two slices of lemon four cloves, and a tiny- 
piece of ginger root; strain and cool; add to the cherry juice 
and turn into the punch bowl over cracked ice. When 
ready to serve add a pint jar of Gordon and Dil worth's 
Puncheezy. 

Honey Posset 

Take one pint of strained honey, the juice of twenty-four, 
lemons, grated peel of one, and a tumbler of rum, mix well, 
and when ready to serve to each half glass of the mixture add 
a half glass of vichy ; chill before mixing the ingredients but 
do not ice the drink. A spray of fresh mint washed then 
dusted with powdered sugar stuck in each glass makes it 
attractive in appearance. 

Harvest Punch 

One cup of molasses, half cup of sugar, two tablespoons of 
ginger syrup, one quart of milk, a little grated lemon peel ; 
mix well, then add a pint of cream, grate a little nutmeg over 
the top, serve chilled but not iced. This is a refreshing and 
nourishing drink as well. 

Christmas Eggnog 

The nog may be made a strictly temperance drink by add- 
ing a tablespoon of vanilla instead of the liquor. Put in a 
bowl the yolks of one dozen fresh eggs and the stiffly beaten 
whites of two of the eggs, beat until very light, then add a 
cup and a half of white granulated sugar, and half a grated 



520 Beverages 

nutmeg. Beat and add slowly a pint of rich milk, four more 
egg whites beaten stiff, three quarters of a tumbler of Jamaica 
rum, and a pint of rich cream. Keep stirring all the time 
and then add a pint more milk. Beat the rest of the egg 
whites stiff and add to them three teaspoons of powdered su- 
gar, a teaspoon of apricot cordial, and a dusting of nutmeg ; 
then drop by spoonfuls on top of the nog. Set the bowl in 
another filled with cracked ice to keep it chilled, but do not 
ice the nog. This makes the wassail bowl always served 
at New Year's and on Twelfth Night. This is sufficient 
to serve ten people once. 

PORCH DRINKS 

With a generous amount of company, and perhaps a num- 
ber of young people fresh from the tennis field or golf links, 
every afternoon just at tea time who prefer something cool- 
ing rather than the usual cup of tea any of the following re- 
cipes may be used and the drinks temptingly served with 
dainty wafers, sandwiches, or cake, and they will prove most 
acceptable. 

The first requisites needed for successful drink mixing 
are plenty of ice, clear or filtered water, vichy, ginger ale, 
and carbonized waters. Next, good, juicy lemons and as 
much other fresh fruit as the market affords. 

The fruit waters, as they are called, are perhaps more 
English than American drinks, but are most refreshing 
when properly made. For strawberry water proceed in the 
following way: — Wash and crush one quart of fresh ripe 
strawberries with one pound of sugar, let them stand several 
hours, then strain carefully and add one pint of clear water. 
Chill and serve with cracked ice and vichy. The orange 
and the pineapple are made in the same way, only adding a 
little lemon juice or orange flower water if the flavor is 
liked. 

Next the syrups are in order and make a line of richer 
drinks. The flavors are ginger, rose, mint, coffee, raspberry, 



Beverages 52I 

mulberry, clove, pink, violet, and chocolate. To one and all 
these vichy, cracked ice, and either whipped cream or ice 
cream may be added. Then there is the iced bouillon with a 
dash of whipped cream, iced chicken or clam broth, which 
also belong to the list of summer drinks. 

Welsh Nectar 

This drink has to be made a week ahead of the time it is 
wanted, so that the two gallons which the recipe calls for 
may become just right for bottling for use. Pare thinly 
eight lemons and drop the peel into eight quarts of boiling 
water, then let stand and cool ; when cool add one pound of 
stoned and chopped large raisins, two pounds of sugar, the 
juice of the lemons, and three cloves. Let it stand for five 
days in a cool place carefully covered, stirring it occasion- 
ally, then strain through cheesecloth, bottle in clean bottles, 
cork, and put on ice to chill. 

Temperance Horse's Neck 

Peel a thin skinned lemon in one long strip and arrange 
it in the glass so that one end hangs over. Put into the 
shaker with the cracked ice the juice of the lemon, a heaping 
tablespoon of sugar, juice of half a grapefruit, and a dash of 
orange bitters. When shaken and chilled turn into the 
glass with the peel and fill it with ginger ale ; a little shaved 
ice may be added if one wants the drink very cold. 

Home-made Soda Water 

At a children's party serve this drink, which fizzes. Boil 
together in a granite saucepan (not metal) two pounds of 
sugar, three pints of hot water, and two ounces of tartaric 
acid for five minutes. Put away to cool and then stir in the 
well beaten whites of three eggs and one ounce of flavoring, 
as vanilla or sarsaparilla. When ready to use put one 



522 Beverag'es 

tablespoon of the syrup into a half glass of water, add a scant 
quarter teaspoon of baking soda, and beat to create a foam. 

Almond Milk 

Blanch two ounces of Jordan almonds and half an ounce 
of bitter almonds and pound them in a mortar, adding a 
little at a time a tablespoon of orange flower water, and two 
tablespoons of sugar. When the mixture is smooth and 
creamy, add one pint of milk, and let stand. Drain before 
using. 

Raspberry Vinegar Syrup 

One pint of raspberry juice, four pints of sugar, two pints 
of cider vinegar, and boil gently for fifteen minutes. Care- 
fully strain and cool, and it is ready for use. Or it may be 
made in the following way : — Let the fruit stand in the vine- 
gar several days, then filter it, add the sugar, and heat to 
boiling point, strain again, then cool, and it is ready for 
use, and is more apt to retain its fine flavor. 

Mead 

Pour over one and a half pints of sugar and a half pint of 
molasses, three pints of boiling water; stir and let stand 
until lukewarm, then add two ounces of tartaric acid and 
an ounce of essence of sassafras. When thoroughly cold, 
bottle. When desired for use, put a tablespoon of the mead 
in a tumbler and fill the glass with any good carbonated 
water. 

Apricot Flip 

Pare, stone and stew two pounds of ripe apricots; sweeten 
them until quite rich and chill thoroughly; when ready to 
serve add two bottles of ginger ale, one of apollinaris, and 
a bunch of mint leaves. 



Beverages 523 

Milk Snap 

To each tumbler of chilled rich milk add a quarter of a 
tumbler of ginger syrup and the beaten white of one fresh 
egg. Shake in a shaker and add a dash of grated lemon peel 
just before serving. 

Pineapple Pilot 

Grate one ripe, fresh pineapple; cover with one cup of 
granulated sugar and let stand on ice; when ready to serve 
add the juice of two lemons, a bottle of ginger ale, and a pint 
of apollinaris water. 

Lemonade 

Juice of eighteen lemons, grated peel of two, juice of six 
oranges and two grapefruit; put two pounds of sugar in a 
saucepan with one quart of water ; when it is melted let it 
boil for two minutes, skim it, then remove from the fire and 
cool it and add it to the fruit juice. Set away to chill ; when 
it is time to serve it strain half into the punch bowl and 
add water, mix well and set the bowl into the larger re- 
ceptacle of cracked ice. When the second half is needed 
strain it into the bowl and add charged water, or one 
quart of charged water and two bottles of imported ginger 
ale. Instead of using the punch bowl of course the drink 
may be shaken with cracked ice in shaker, then turned into 
the glasses. 

Glorified Lemonade 

An ordinary lemonade will be much more attractive 
if a little juice of the currant or raspberry is added, sufficient 
to make the liquid pinky. Then add a few fresh pineapple 
sticks and a thinly sliced banana. Ice and serve. 



524 Beverages 

Lemonade 

Rind and juice of three lemons, two ounces loaf sugar, 
one quart of boiling water. Peel lemons very thin, and put 
in a jug with the sugar, pour over the boiling water and let 
cool, strain, and add water to strained juice when cold. 



PRESERVING AND PICKLING 

There seems to be a bit of haziness in most minds as to 
the correct way of using the words "conserve" and "pre- 
serve. " To clear the matter up once for all the explanation 
of each word will show the difference. In France, the word 
conserve is applied to any food, fruit, vegetable, meat, game, 
fish, pickles, sweetmeats, or anything that is put up and 
sealed in tin, glass, or any other carrier to keep over the 
winter months or as much longer as is required. In America 
the term is used for any unusual sweetmeat when one is 
uncertain as to in just which class it belongs. This is an 
incorrect use of the word, for what usually is called a con- 
serve Is a pound-for-pound preserve, which, though usually 
sealed, is rich and heavy enough to keep, carefully covered 
in a cool place, without sealing, for several months. 

Although there are many new methods for preserving and 
pickling in vogue, and so-called easier ways of doing the 
work, still the dainties cooked in the large low porcelain-lined 
iron pots of our grandmothers' day have yet to be excelled. 
While still being in favor of most of the old methods it is 
but fair to at least tell something of the new, leaving the 
housekeeper the liberty of her own choice. A few simple 
rules will serve as a general guide aided by a true set of 
kitchen scales, quart and pint cups, and the other parapher- 
nalia summed up in one of the following paragraphs. 

Preserve Making 

Preserves are usually made of the large seeded fruits, 
pared or impared as the case may be. After careful washing 

525 



526 Preserving and PicKling 

the fruit, either whole or halved and the stones removed, is 
placed in the preserving kettle with three quarters of a pint 
of sugar to a pound of fruit and just enough water to keep 
them from burning. Allow the fruit to heat slowly until it 
begins to give off its own juice, then boil gently and skim 
thoroughly, cooking until the fruit is tender, when it should 
be removed to a large bowl with a skimmer and the juice be 
allowed to boil ten minutes. Now return the fruit to the 
juice and let it all heat through again and it will be ready for 
the jars. Another way is to allow the fruit to cook ; first, 
then remove it and add the sugar to the boiling syrup, after 
boiling it ten minutes and skimming carefully, return the 
fruit, boil up once, and then put in the jars. If it is desired 
to make the preserve still richer then use a pound of sugar 
to each pound of fruit, using just as little water as possible, 
only enough to keep them from burning until they begin to 
give off their own juice. 

Dry Pack Canning 

Dry pack canning is the newest form of putting up vege- 
tables and fruits for winter use. The method is recognized 
as the best by the State colleges that teach domestic eco- 
nomy and their teachers show the work to be easy for the 
housekeeper to do and much more economical than the 
old way. 

Tomatoes should first have scalding water turned over 
them and their skins removed. Then plunge them in cold 
water, and pack them by hand in the jars, as many as can 
be crowded in, add one level teaspoon of salt to each quart 
jar; place the rubber and cap in position, partially seal, but 
not tight, then set the cans in the hot water bath outfit 
and leave them there twenty-two minutes, the water boiling 
around them. Remove the jars, tighten the covers, and in- 
vert them to test the joint while they cool. The next morn- 
ing tighten the covers if they need it ; or, if it is possible to 
do so and for especial stewing use, select a few of the best 



Preserving and PicKlin^ 527 

looking jars and wrap them in paper before stowing them 
away, so that they will retain their brilliant coloring. 

Even if the jar is not full after the tomatoes are done, it 
will not affect their keeping in the slightest degree, as no 
air has been allowed to enter the jar from the moment they 
were cooked. The most practical hot water bath outfit is 
the oblong tin water kettle having the rack inside which 
holds eight jars and which is equipped with a tight-fitting 
cover. 

Three important rules are impressed upon the student of 
this new method of canning and there are three good reasons 
for each rule. The first reasons are for "scalding" the 
products: first, to loosen the skins; second, to eliminate 
acid and acrid flavors ; and third, to start the flow of the 
coloring matter which is later arrested by the cold dip. 
The next reason has to do with the "blanching": first, 
to eliminate acids and acrid flavors; second, to reduce the 
bulk of vegetable greens; third, to make it unnecessary to use 
the exhaust period and intermittent process. "Cold dip- 
ping" is done, first, to harden the pulp under the skin and 
thus permit the removal of the skin without injury to the 
pulp; second, to coagulate the coloring matter and make it 
harder to dissolve; third, to make it easier to handle the 
products in packing. 

The claim is made that fruit and vegetables done after this 
method are more true to nature in color, flavor, and texture, 
and more natural in appearance than those done under the 
old ways. Peaches are put eight or ten at a time into a 
double square of cheesecloth; in this they are lowered into 
the boiling water and allowed to blanch there for two or 
three minutes, then they are removed by the cheesecloth, 
drained a minute, plunged into cold water for a moment, 
then their skins and stones are removed, after which they 
are packed into the jars, the rubber is put in place, and the 
boiling syrup, made in the proportion of two cups of sugar to 
one of water, which has boiled for two minutes before being 
used, is turned into the jars, filling them to overflowing. 



528 Preserving and PicKlin^ 

The cover is then quickly screwed into place, but not firmly 
screwed down. Next the jars are set into the water bath, 
where the boiling water should be kept high enough to cover 
the lower three quarters of the jars, and here they are 
allowed to stay for twelve minutes. They are then removed, 
the covers tightened as much as possible, and the jars in- 
verted to cool and test the joint. 

String beans, after being washed carefully, strung and 
cut into convenient lengths, should be allowed to blanch 
four minutes, then be cold dipped. Pack them in the jar, 
adding a level teaspoon of salt to a quart, fill the jar 
with boiling water, partly seal and place in the water bath, 
and allow them to stay there for ninety minutes. 

Other vegetables may be done in similar proportions, 
leaving them in the water same time it would take to cook. 

A number of the preserving outfits of European make 
are temporarily out of the market, so Americans will have 
to depend on some of the old reliable methods and bring 
them up to date as far as possible. The cooking can be 
done in the pint jars by utilizing the double roasting pans 
and the steam cookers. Clean jars, new rubbers, wide- 
mouthed bottles, porcelain jam pots and paper jelly glasses 
or cups, paraffin, sealing-wax, labels, new cheesecloth jelly 
bags, which are better than the old flannel bags, new wooden 
spoons, fresh cheesecloth squares to save the towels, and 
paper dishcloths, should all be ready. Vinegar, fresh spices, 
and herbs should be ready also. The new rubber preserving 
aprons are excellent to wear while dealing with the fruit. 

One thing to remember in pickling or preserving is that the 
best fruits or vegetables, ripe but not overripe, carefully 
washed before preparing, are the only kind there is any 
excuse for preserving. Many women feel that it is better 
economy to prepare the fruits one day, put them away in a 
cold place well covered, and start the actual preserving 
early the next morning. This is practical, especially for 
jam or jelly or any of the pickles, but it is not a wise method 
where whole fruit is to be preserved. 



Preserving and PicKling 529 

Jellies made by the cold uncooked process are more 
delicate in flavor, but do not keep as well. While they 
are jelling in the sun the tumblers must be covered with a 
sheet of glass. 

All preserve juice and skimmings may be turned into the 
vinegar barrel or jug, as it forms the much to be desired 
"mother," which clears and makes the vinegar fine. Any 
quantity of juice left may also be used for the fruit vinegars, 
which make such refreshing summer drinks. 

The large-seeded fruits make the choicest jams, but many 
people do not object to the seeds in currants, and other small- 
seeded berries, as their flavor is excellent. For the fruit 
jellies many cooks prefer to squeeze the fruit cold, rather 
than the older and more tiresome way of heating it and let- 
ting it drain through the jelly bag. 

Just a word to the housekeeper to remind her while 
she is putting up the winter's stock of jams and jellies not to 
forget the little individual paper jelly cups for the children's 
school lunches. The jellies are invaluable for the purpose 
and perfectly wholesome when made at home. One word as 
to jams: it will be found that jams made of the large rather 
than the seedy fruit will be better liked by the children, who 
at this particular stage may be losing and gaining teeth, 
and the seeds make infinite trouble and are often the cause 
of many painful toothaches. Cherry, strawberry, apricot, 
peach, and plum jam; raspberry, currant, blackberry, apple, 
grape, and quince jelly will furnish an excellent variety. 

The experienced housekeeper may not need a hint as to 
the necessity of looking after her preserved fruit for a while 
after it is stored away to watch for any signs of its "work- 
ing" but to the new housekeeper the hint may be a welcome 
word of warning. 

Pears, if taken at the very moment they begin to "work,'* 
may be saved by putting them into the preserving kettle 
and boiling down and skimming off the scum that rises to 
the top, and canning again. 

Tomatoes may require the same treatment. Other fruits 
34 



530 Preserving and PicKling 

may respond to the treatment, but it is usually best to add 
some more sugar. 

Sometimes if very hot weather comes after the jellies are 
done up, they have to undergo another boiling if they seem 
inclined to melt, but do not scorch them or boil them so 
that they are too hard or firm when set again. 

Among preserving conveniences the fruit funnels should 
not be overlooked ; they are bowl-shaped with a wide opening 
that allows the fruit to go through into the jars without 
breaking it in pieces. 

PLUMS 

Among the fall fruits there are none more welcome than 
the various members of the plum family. 

The Damson or Damascene plum takes its name from 
Damascus, where it grows in perfection and whence it was 
first made known to us. The greengage plum is called 
after the Gage family, who first brought it to England from 
the Monastery of the Chartreuse at Paris. 

The Orleans plum is the big yellow one flecked with red 
and was an original French production. The big blue ones 
with the filmy white clouds are the Dutch plums. 

There is a little plum that is known as the beach plum, for 
it grows on a rather scrubby bush at the edge of the seashore 
sand, which makes good jam, jelly or preserve. 

In making the preserves of plums the pound of sugar to 
the pound of fruit is the only sure recipe to follow. If the 
fruit is pricked with a needle in several places it will not 
burst or lose its skin, and thus give an uninviting look to 
the preserves. 

Damson Cheese 

Wash and pick the stalks from six pounds of damson plums, 
then put them in the preserving pan, barely covering them 
with water. Simmer gently over the fire until they are quite 
soft, stirring them occasionally ; when soft beat them through 



Preserving and PicKlin^ 531 

a coarse sieve, put the pulp and juice into the preserving 
kettle, adding their weight in sugar weighed before cooking, 
and simmer well for two hours, skimming carefully; then 
draw to a hotter part of the stove and boil a half hour 
more, briskly stirring and watching carefully until it looks 
firm enough to jell down when cold, and it seems hard on 
the spoon. Turn the cheese at once into porcelain jam 
pots or earthenware molds. When cold, cover down 
with an oiled paper, then a tissue paper that has been 
brushed on either side with white of egg, label, and store 
away. 

Plxim Paste 

Wash and weigh two pounds of plums and the same 
amount of sugar, put a cup of water on the plums and let 
them simmer and melt; cook until all are soft, then put 
through a sieve, add the sugar, boil twenty minutes, watch- 
ing the paste carefully, then spread on a tin to dry. When 
dry cut in squares and dust with powdered sugar, then 
pack in a tin box. 

Greengage Sweetmeats 

To every pound of fruit allow one pound of sugar and a 
quarter pint of water. Select perfect fruit not fully ripe 
and leave the stalks on. Make a syrup of the water and 
sugar and when ready put in the fruit and boil ten minutes, 
then remove fruit with a skimmer and set aside; next day 
heat the syrup and when hot put in the fruit and simmer 
three minutes, then drain it. Repeat this process for six, 
days ; on the last day put the plums on a fine sieve and place 
them in a cooling oven to dry ; when dry enough pack them 
in a box with wax paper between the layers. These sweet- 
meats are good to serve at afternoon functions with ice 
cream or for decorating cakes or puddings. 



532 Preserving and PicKlin^ 

QUINCES 

For quince preserves select twelve smooth quinces, wash 
and wipe the fuzz off carefully, pare, core, and quarter 
them, throwing them into two quarts of cold water to keep 
them from turning black. Put the peelings into one quart 
of water with seeds and cores. Let the quinces come to a 
boil and cook until tender when tried with a straw; remove 
carefully to a bowl, add three pints of sugar, one clove, 
and one thin slice of lemon to the juice, boil and reduce 
to nearly one half. Put in the quinces and boil gently for 
five minutes, then seal in jars. 

Whatever remains add with two or three smaller quinces 
to the parings and let them simmer for an hour; remove 
carefully, strain, and to every pint of juice add three 
quarters of a pound of sugar, boil the jelly about twenty 
minutes or until it is the right consistency when tried on 
a cold plate. Turn into jelly glasses and cover in the usual 
way when cold and set. 

Quince Jam 

Quince jam is made by following the same formula as is 
used for the preserves, except the sugar is added at once and 
the whole mixture cooked slowly for an hour or more. It 
must be carefully watched, for any heavy sweet mixture 
burns readily. It may be packed away in stone crocks for 
winter use, with the usual protection of brandy paper of 
parafine covering. 

Quince Marmalade 

Slice the quinces into the preserving kettle; add enough 
clear water to float them, and boil until reduced to a pulp, 
stirring them carefully with a wooden spoon. When done 
strain through a fine sieve, and add three quarters of a 
pound of sugar to each pound of pulp; then boil carefully 
to the consistency of marmalade, and store away in jars, 



Preserving and PicKling 533 

first testing on a plate to see if it is ready to jell. When 
cold in the jars, cover down. 

Rhubarb and Orange Jam 

Peel one dozen ripe oranges, remove the white pith and 
the seeds, slice the pulp into a preserving pan, add the rind 
of half the oranges cut into strips and two pounds of sugar. 
Peel and cut fine three bunches of rhubarb ; let the oranges 
and sugar melt together ; pour boiling water on the rhubarb 
and let it stand for ten minutes, drain and add the rhubarb 
to the orange. Cook over an even fire, stirring carefully 
with a wooden spoon, until the jam is done; remove all the 
scum as it rises; when partially cool turn the jam into little 
pots and when thoroughly cold cover down. 

For Blueberry Pie 

If one goes in for pie fillings, don't forget in the blue- 
berry season to do up some of the big white clouded seedless 
variety for the purpose, as they are the finest that come to 
this market, and their season is rather short. 

Tangerine Preserves 

Remove the skins from three dozen tangerines, separate 
the segments, pulling away all the white skin, and add to it 
the pulp of one large grapefruit. Cut the skins fine and boil 
until tender, then drain and add to the uncooked fruit, add- 
ing as much sugar as there is pulp and skin. Cook for half 
an hour and serve cold. 

Grapefruit Marmalade 

Two grapefruit, two oranges, two lemons, sugar, water. 
Time: Preparation, two days; cooking, one hour and a 
half, about. Cut fruit in quarters; remove seeds, and slice 
— through pulp and rind — in very thin slices. Use a small 
board and a very sharp knife. Fruit may be put through 
food-chopper if preferred, but this is not so good. To each 



534 Preserving and PicKlin^ 

pound of fruit add three pints of water. Place in an enamel 
or earthen bowl, and let stand for twenty-four hours. Next 
boil gently until rind is tender. Let stand again for twenty- 
four hours. To each pound add one pound of sugar and 
cook slowly until thick and clear. Try by chilling a little 
on a saucer. Do not overcook. Pour into sterilized glasses 
or jars, and seal. 

Fig Jam 

Take two pounds of loose figs, wash, and boil them until 
tender. When done, chop fine and add one pound of sugar, 
juice of one lemon, a small cup of spiced vanilla syrup, and a 
half cup of honey. Let boil, stirring carefully until it begins 
to jell when tried on a cold plate. Turn into small jars. 

Preserved Pumpkin 

Cut, pare, and seed one ripe pumpkin, weigh it, and cut it 
into small pieces. In a deep dish put alternate layers of 
pumpkin and of sugar, using as many pounds of sugar as 
there is pumpkin. Pour one gill of lemon juice over the 
top and let stand for two days. Then boil, adding a half 
pint of water to each three pounds; when the pumpkin is 
tender turn all back into the crock and let stand for a 
few days, then strain off the juice, add a lemon rind and 
a quarter pound of bruised ginger, and boil the juice down 
quite thick; skim well and turn it over the pumpkin. This 
will keep until used in a well covered crock. 

Preserved Green Ginger 

Soak the ginger for ten days, putting on fresh boiling 
water every morning and night ; then scrape the outside off 
with a sharp knife, boil it in water until it is quite soft, then 
cut it into thin slices. Make a syrup of a pound of sugar to 
a half pint of water, letting a small spice bag boil in it, 
and when clear add it to the ginger, boil all up together, 
skim, and put into a crock to cool. 



Preserving and PicKlin^ 535 

Preserved Cherries and Pecans 

To six pounds of ripe, well washed, and stoned cherries 
add four pounds of granulated sugar. When all is melted 
together let come to boiling point slowly and boil, skimming 
carefully, until the fruit is done. Have ready one pound of 
carefully shelled and halved pecans, stir them into the 
fruit, and boil down to the proper consistency, which is 
reached when the boiling is heavy and smothered. It can 
be judged by trying a little on a cold plate. It must be 
very carefully watched and stirred with a wooden spoon or 
paddle, as it is very apt to burn. When slightly cool it may 
be turned into a sun-warmed crock, and when cold covered 
with a linen cloth and the crock cover and set away or 
it may be sealed in jars, hot, as in the case of the regular 
preserves. 

Almost any nuts except Brazil nuts or pine nuts may be 
used in this way with any of the seedless fruits, but those 
nuts having a skin, like hazel nuts and almonds, should be 
blanched and carefully dried before being added to the 
preserves. 

Gooseberry Jelly 

Warm the fruit and squeeze the juice out. Add three 
quarters of a pound of sugar to a pint of the juice, and like 
all acid fruits it may require more than the proverbial twenty 
minutes to boil. Try it on a cold plate, however, to be sure. 
Jelly, when too stiff, is not inviting. 

Preserved Marrow 

To five pounds of marrow add five pounds of lump sugar, 
two ounces of green ginger, the rind and the juice of three 
lemons, and preserved ginger to taste. 

Cut the marrow in squares the size of a walnut, sprinkle 
slightly with salt, and let it stand for an hour. Drain off 
the salt and rinse with a little water. Next add the sugar 



536 Preserving and PicKlin^ 

and let It stand until the sugar Is dissolved. Then boll until 
the marrow Is transparent, probably one hour. 

Stew the lemon rind and ginger In a little water until It Is 
sufficiently cooked; then shred the peel. Then put the peel, 
ginger, and lemon juice together and boll them with the 
marrow for fifteen minutes before taking up. The juice 
may be drained from the marrow and boiled gently for half 
an hour; then put the marrow back Into the juice. 

The Tutti-Frutti Jar 

May is the time to start the tutti-frutti jar, when the 
first good strawberries come and apricots are In the market. 
Use for the purpose a deep stone crock which has a tight- 
fitting cover. Put Into It a pint of the best brandy, then 
add a cup of sugar to each cup of carefully washed and 
seeded fruit as the season progresses. The brandy is used 
as a preservative. 

After the strawberries, pitted cherries, and apricots have 
been added, put In a half pint more brandy, then a spice 
bag, tying a string to it so that It may be drawn out when 
desired. If it is left in all season It grows unsanitary. Black- 
berries, raspberries, currants, and gooseberries may be added 
if one does not object to the small seeds. If one does, a 
half cup of the juice of each with a quarter of a cup of sugar 
will give the flavor. 

Pineapples and peaches should be used freely, and one 
thinly sliced and seeded lemon must not be forgotten. 
In August add a cup of Jamaica rum; then finish filling 
the jar with the late fruits. Stir carefully as each ingredi- 
ent is added, using a wooden spatula. When all have been 
added, put a heavy brandled cloth under the cover and set 
away In a cool place. 

From time to time stir the contents, and In October It 
may be well to add a little more brandy. This, however, 
depends on how the fruit has been keeping or how rapidly 
it is being used. When the best of the fruit has been 



Preserving and PicKling 537 

used, strain the syrup, and use the fine fruit that is left in a 
pudding, and the syrup for sauces or punch. 

JELLIES AND JAMS FOR SUMMER 

(To be made and eaten during the warm weather) 
Pineapple Jelly 

Pare and dice four fresh sweet pineapples, add one pint 
of clear water, and let come slowly to boiling point ; let stand 
at boiling point and gently simmer for half an hour, then 
cool slightly and strain. To each pint of the juice add three 
quarters of a pint of sugar, boil twenty minutes, skimming 
carefully, then turn into jelly glasses. This is good for a 
salad jelly, or with custard, as well as in cake or sand- 
wich filling. 

Apricot Jelly 

Wash and halve a four-pound box of apricots, place in a 
preserve kettle with a pint of water, let slowly melt, and then 
boil for twenty minutes. Strain through a white strainer so 
that the fruit may be used up in a pie, then strain the juice 
again so that it is clear, add three quarters of a pint of sugar 
to each pint of juice, boil twenty minutes, then fill the little 
tumblers. This is specially designed to serve with dessert 
dishes, to garnish ice cream, to serve with fruit salads, or as 
the center of custards with whipped cream. 

Grapefruit Jelly 

To three cups of grapefruit juice and pulp add two tea- 
spoons lemon juice, half a cup of sugar, one and a half cups 
of water, and a heaping tablespoon of gelatine. Put the 
gelatine and other ingredients into a saucepan, stir over the 
fire until they almost boil, then strain and add two table- 
spoons of sherry wine. Turn into a wet mold, let set and 
chill. Serve with whipped sweetened cream. 



538 Preserving and PicKling 

Prune Jelly 

Wash the prunes and soak them three hours in cold water, 
then put them into a small basin, add half a cup of water, 
cover tightly, and steam until soft. Remove the stones and 
place the prunes in a wet mold. Put one heaping table- 
spoon of gelatine into a saucepan, add one cup of water, one 
cup of sugar, one tablespoon of lemon juice, juice of two 
oranges, and stir over the fire until the gelatine dissolves, 
then strain over the prunes. Add a cup of sherry, set away 
to harden and chill, and serve with whipped sweetened 
cream. 

Mint Jelly 

Take a pint of freshly gathered mint leaves, wash, and add 
to them a quart of water and a cup of tarragon vinegar, two 
cups of sugar, a half saltspoon of paprika, and a teaspoon of 
salt; boil gently for twenty minutes. Add a half package 
of gelatine that has been standing in a little cold water, let 
all heat and melt, then strain carefully into little glasses to 
set. This is excellent to serve with cold meats, or to use in 
fresh cucumber salad with French dressing or mayonnaise. 

Rose Leaf Jam 

Gather a quantity of fresh red and pink rose leaves when 
they have unfolded after a recent shower and to every solid 
pint add a scant pint of sugar. To six pints of the leaves 
add one quart of distilled water, let all slowly heat and melt. 
When it reaches the boiling point, stir carefully and boil 
twenty minutes; turn into little jam pots and when cold 
cover down for use. This is good to serve with ice cream, 
for cake filling, or for sandwiches. 

Strawberry Jam 

To six quarts of prime strawberries add five pounds of 
sugar, let melt slowly, then boil for a half hour and try on a 



Preserving and PicKlin^ 539 

cold plate. Let a spice bag boil with the jam but remove it 
when jam is done. Ttirn into little jam pots. An excellent 
dainty for a breakfast tray, with buttered toast or hot rolls. 

Carrot Jam 

This jam is excellent to eat with cold meats and is not 
difficult to make. Scrape and boil one quart of carrots. 
When very tender, drain them and mash through a colander. 
Add to the pulp one pound of sugar, the juice of a lemon, a 
tablespoon of ginger syrup, and a pinch of cinnamon. Boil 
all together slowly, stirring carefully until it seems to jelly; 
then turn into small individual jam pots. 

JELLIES TO USE WITH FISH 

In serving fish, baked, broiled, or boiled, hot or cold, 
an appropriate savory jelly is always good with it, making 
an edible as well as an attractive garnish. A sweet or ordi- 
nary ready-made jelly is not suitable for the purpose, so it 
must be made the day before or early in the morning of the 
day on which it is to be used to give it time to harden. 

If the jellies are to be served as a garnish then place each 
little mold on a toasted crouton; then the hot platter will 
not melt it. If served as a separate portion it may be mold- 
ed in a large mold and helped by the spoonful. 

Jellies made for this purpose are not always clear like fruit 
jellies, for, in order to give a better flavor to the jelly, the 
principal ingredient is put through a puree sieve, which 
makes the jelly seem more solid and less delicate in appear- 
ance. But the flavor will make up for any other seeming 
lack. 

Tomato Jelly 

Take one can, or a pound and a half of fresh tomatoes, 
and put in a saucepan with three cups of water, a sliced onion, 
a stalk of celery, a bay leaf, two cloves, one tablespoon of 
ketchup, teaspoon of Worcestershire sauce, a saltspoon of pep- 



540 Preserving and PicKling 

per, a teaspoon of salt, tablespoon of sugar, three heaping 
tablespoons of gelatine soaked in a little of the water, and the 
whites and shells of two eggs. Stir over the fire until the 
mixture boils, then cover and let it boil gently for eight 
minutes, then drain through a fine sieve. Pour boiling 
water through a jelly bag, then strain the jelly through it, 
add two or three drops of red coloring, and pour into wet 
molds. 

Asparagus Jelly 

Drain the water from one can of asparagus tips, add two 
and a half cups of water, stew until tender, then add the 
juice of one onion, tablespoon of sugar, juice of half a lemon, 
a saltspoon of pepper, a teaspoon of salt, a half saltspoon of 
celery salt, tablespoon of chutney syrup, and three table- 
spoons of gelatine powder that has been mixed with a little 
cold water. Stir all together until the gelatine is melted, 
then strain and mash through a puree sieve. Fill little wet 
molds and set away to chill. A bunch of fresh green as- 
paragus may be used instead if the tips are cut well back so 
only the tenderest is cooked. If the fish is to be served cold 
then each little jelly turned onto a toasted crouton may 
have a teaspoon of mayonnaise on top with an asparagus 
tip stuck in it or a spray of fresh watercress. 

Rhubarb Jelly 

Put one and a half cups of sugar, half a lemon, and a 
cup of water in a saucepan and bring to boiling point. Then 
add three pounds of rhubarb cut fine, simmer gently for 
twenty minutes, then strain, add four heaping tablespoons 
of gelatine dissolved in a little boiling water ; stir until all is 
smooth, then color a good red and pour into the molds. 

Fennel Jelly 

To four cups of water add one cup of sugar, three heaping 
tablespoons of gelatine wet in a little warm water, and the 



Preserving and PicKling 541 

whites and shells of two eggs. Stir over a slow fire until it all 
melts and comes to the boiling point. Boil five minutes, 
adding a tablespoon of fennel seed (fresh if possible) and 
enough fennel flavoring to suit the taste; color a delicate 
green and turn into the wet molds. When serving put a 
little mayonnaise on top and sprinkle with a little finely 
chopped pistachio nuts. If the jelly needs straining 
through the jelly bag do so before putting in the seeds 
and coloring. 

Cucumber Jelly 

Pare and remove seeds from four cucumbers and grate 
them, add four tablespoons of vinegar, half a cup of water, 
a teaspoon of salt, a saltspoon of pepper, teaspoon of onion 
juice, one heaping tablespoon of powdered gelatine, moist- 
ened with water; pour into a saucepan and stir over 
moderate heat until the gelatine has dissolved. When 
slightly cool add a few drops of green Breton coloring to 
make it delicate green and turn into the wet molds. At 
serving time each little jelly may be set on a crisp lettuce 
leaf and have a teaspoon of French dressing turned over it. 

Champagne Jelly 

Dissolve five heaping tablespoons of gelatine in four cups 
of water, add one and a half cups of sugar, a cup of sherry 
wine and a cup of champagne, two cloves, small stick of 
cinnamon, juice of a small grapefruit, whites and shells of 
two eggs. Stir until it boils, then allow it to boil gently four 
minutes, strain through a scalded jelly bag, color a delicate 
pink, and turn into the wet molds. 

Mint Julep or Creme de Menthe Jelly 

Take one ounce of powdered agar (flakes or powder), to be 
procured at any drug store at about twenty-flve cents an 
ounce, add to it one and a half quarts of water and five 
pounds and four ounces of sugar. Let it come to a boil, 



542 Preserving and PicKlin^ 

skim carefully, and test on a cold plate. It will require 
boiling from fifteen to twenty minutes, according to the 
atmosphere. When finished remove from the fire and add 
creme de menthe to taste. Pour into the jelly tumblers, 
and when cold cover in the usual way. 

Proceed in the same way for the mint julep jelly, but 
bruise enough mint leaves, cleanly washed, to make one 
cup, and let them marinate in one cup of hot brandy with 
three cloves for one hour. After the jelly has boiled fifteen 
minutes, strain the brandy into the mixture, and let it boil 
for five minutes with the jelly, skimming carefully. When 
cold cover the tumblers in the usual way. 

SOME PICKLING IDEAS AND RECIPES 

(What to do and when to do it to obtain the best conserving 

results) 

There are in the art of pickling a few general rules to heed 
if the best results are to follow the housewife's efforts. 
First, the articles to be pickled must be the best that the 
market affords and taken at the season of their prime. 
The utensils used for vinegar boiling should be of the heavy 
granite ware, porcelain-lined ware or, better still, the earthen 
or stone pipkin. 

Wooden forks and spoons and silver knives only should 
be used in the preparation of pickle material. Glass jars, 
bottles or crocks are the only things to store away the 
pickles in. 

Cider, wine, and tarragon vinegars are the best to use. 
In the closet and ready for use before the day of pickling is 
at hand should be fresh spices, both whole and ground; 
mustard seed, sweet herbs, peppers, whole and ground; 
salt, sugar, brown and white; ginger root and any of the 
well known pickle colorings if they are liked. Bottles, jars, 
labels, sealing wax, and wax paper must be at hand. Then 
the cook is ready to go ahead. 



Preserving and PicKling 543 

Always remember that a bright sunny day is by far the 
best for pickle making, as the atmosphere has a great deal 
to do with the keeping properties of conserves. 

To Make a Spice Bag 

In a square of clean linen cloth place twelve cloves, one 
stick of broken cinnamon, a half teaspoon of mustard seed, 
the same amount of celery seed, a broken blade of mace, a 
quarter of a crushed nutmeg, and a small piece of dried 
lemon peel. Tie the cloth into a bag, leaving a long string 
so that it may be dropped into a pot and pulled out again 
at will. 

Quick Pickles 

Select fifty little cucumbers of two inches in length and 
uniform in size, wash, and cover them with cold water to 
which a generous handful of salt has been added ; cover and 
let stand for twelve hours, wash and pack in a crock. Boil 
as much cider vinegar as will cover them, adding a spicebag 
and a small pepper; let boil five minutes, then turn over the 
pickles and cover tightly. When cold remove the pepper 
but let the spice bag remain for a week or so. In two days 
or even before, they are ready for use. 

Pickled Surprise 

Boil twelve fresh eggs hard and remove the shells. Cut 
them lengthwise and remove the yolks. Boil six small 
beets for thirty minutes, then skin and chop them with the 
egg yolks. Add the juice of one onion, a teaspoon of salt, 
and a saltspoon of pepper. Fill the egg whites with the* 
mixture and tie together with kitchen tape, then pack into 
a stone crock. Boil one pint of vinegar with a tablespoon 
of sugar and a tiny spice bag five minutes and pour over 
the eggs. These will be ready for use in twenty-four 
hours. 



544 Preserving and PicKlin^ 

Nasturtium Pickles 

The pods are ripe from the end of July until the end of 
August. Gather them on a dry day, put them in a dry glass 
bottle after wiping them carefully. Fill each bottle with 
vinegar, six peppercorns, and one ounce of salt. When 
the bottle is filled, cork and seal tightly and let stand three 
months before using. 

Ladies* Delight Pickle 

Put together eight ounces each of chopped onions, pared, 
cored, and chopped apples, two ounces of chopped chillies or 
sweet peppers, and place them in a jar. Boil one pint of 
white vinegar, adding a large spoon of salt. Pour this over 
the ingredients named and when quite cold, bottle. 

Pickled Cherries 

Stem four pounds of cherries, wash, and put them in a 
stone crock. Heat two quarts of vinegar with two pounds 
of sugar and a spice bag, boil up five minutes, and skim; 
then pour over the cherries and let them stand covered a 
week. Drain off the syrup and boil it five minutes more, 
then turn it back over the cherries and when cold remove 
the spice bag and cover down tightly. 

Ripe Tomato Soy 

Wash, pare, and slice one peck of ripe firm tomatoes. 
Put them into the kettle with eight thinly sliced onions, and 
a cup of salt. Let them stand twenty-four hours, then 
drain them. Put them back into the kettle and add two 
quarts of vinegar, one tablespoon each of ground mustard, 
ginger, cloves, allspice, and a teaspoon of cayenne pepper. 
Cook for two and a half hours, then add two pounds of sugar 
and three quarters of a pound of white mustard seed ; allow 
it to boil for a half hour longer, then turn into a crock to 
cool. 



Preserving and PicKlin^ 545 

Tomato Chutney 

Wash and chop one and a half pounds of ripe, firm to- 
matoes with a pound and three quarters of pared, cored 
tart apples and a pound and a half of stoned raisins. Put 
in a kettle with a pound and a half of sugar, two ounces 
of chopped onion, four ounces of salt, and a saltspoon of 
cayenne pepper. Add three pints of cider vinegar and one 
of tarragon, boil for three hours, stirring often, and when 
done bottle and seal. This makes an excellent sauce to 
use with cold meat. 

Pickled Caxiliflowers 

Select white, full heads of cauliflower, wash and separate 
the sprays, lay on fiat plates and sprinkle with salt and let 
stand for three days to draw the water out of them; then 
pack them in a crock and immerse in boiling water and let 
stand overnight. Wash and drain and pack into glass jars, 
putting three cloves and a small red pepper in each jar and 
covering with vinegar. Rinsed, these make a delightful 
winter salad. They may also be treated for sweet pickling 
like the watermelon rind. 

Pickled Watermelon Rind 

Muskmelon and the citron may be treated in the same 
way as this popular sweet pickle. Cut the fruit into good 
serving size, pack in a stone crock, and pour over it enough 
scalding vinegar to cover it ; next morning heat the vinegar 
again and let stand until cold; then heat once more. Weigh 
the fruit and to every five pounds of fruit add three of sugar ; 
cloves, cinnamon, and allspice may be tied in a little bag 
and dropped in with a quart of vinegar. Let all boil to- 
gether until the fruit is tender; then strain out the fruit 
and boil down the syrup to one half the quantity. Put 
the fruit back to heat a minute, then turn into a crock or 
wide-mouthed bottle. 

35 



54^ Preserving and PicKlin^ 

Sweet Pickled Peppers 

Take seven pounds of ripe red peppers, wash and halve 
them, and remove the stem end with the seed cone. Put 
four pounds of sugar, one quart of vinegar, two ounces 
each of cinnamon and cloves, one thinly sliced lemon, two 
buds of garlic, and a small piece of green ginger root into the 
kettle and boil it for five minutes and then put in the pep- 
pers. When the peppers are tender, remove them and boil 
down the syrup until it is rich; remove the garlic and the 
ginger, put back the peppers and boil up once, and they are 
ready to put into the crock to cool. If a stalk of celery 
is allowed to boil while the peppers boil, and is removed 
when the garlic is, it adds a delicious flavor to the pickle. 

Banana Sweet Pickle 

This is a good sweet pickle to serve with cold meats. It 
is much used by the Cubans in Havana, but is a strange 
dish to northerners. Make a very thick syrup of two cups 
of sugar and a half cup of water, add to it three tablespoons 
of vinegar, cloves, allspice, and cinnamon to taste. While 
the syrup is hot pour it over a half dozen ripe bananas that 
have been sliced crosswise. Let the pickle stand several 
hours before serving. 

Sweet Pickled Peaches 

To seven pounds of peaches allow three and three quar- 
ter pounds of sugar, one quart vinegar, two ounces of cloves, 
and two ounces of stick cinnamon. Boil the sugar and the 
vinegar with several sticks of the cinnamon for five minutes, 
then put in the peaches. When they are cooked try them 
with a straw, take them out and boil the syrup down to one 
half the quantity, replace the fruit and let it heat through 
again, but not boil. Two or three cloves may be put into 
the boiling vinegar, but the rest tie in a little linen bag 
and throw into the crock, and after a few weeks remove, 



Preserving and PicKling 547 

as they get slimy and turn the fruit dark. Put a little of 
the cinnamon loose, however, in the crock. 

Chili Sauce 

Chop twenty-five onions, fifty ripe tomatoes, twelve green 
peppers, a bunch of celery, and a few tarragon leaves very 
fine; add two quarts of vinegar, three cups of sugar, one 
tablespoon of allspice, one of cloves, one of cinnamon, one of 
mace, and three tablespoons of salt. Boil for two and one 
half hours; then let cool, taste, and add any more flavor 
required. Heat to boiling point once more to assimilate 
the flavor, then put in stone crock and cover. It must be 
carefully watched and stirred with a wooden spoon, for it 
is thick and heavy and likely to burn. 

Southern Pickle 

Wash and chop fine without paring eight pounds of green 
tomatoes. Put in a kettle and boil an hour and a half. 
Add three pounds of granulated sugar and boil an hour and 
a half longer, stirring often, so it does not burn. Then 
add one quart of vinegar, one teaspoon each of ground 
cinnamon, mace, and cloves, and boil down for twenty 
minutes ; then bottle it and seal carefully. 

Tomato Chowchow 

Peel and cut fine six large, ripe tomatoes. Chop one 
onion fine, add it to the tomato with a chopped green pepper, 
one tablespoon of salt, two of brown sugar, and two cups 
of vinegar. Stew gently for one hour, stirring carefully 
so as not to break the tomato too fine. Put away in a stone 
crock well covered. 

Green Tomato Mincemeat 

Wash and chop fine one peck of green tomatoes. Drain 
them free from all water, and put them into the preserving 



548 Preserving' and PicKlin^ 

kettle with six pounds of brown sugar; boil for four hours. 
Then add three pounds of stoned and chopped raisins, one 
pound chopped dates, two tablespoons of cinnamon, one 
tablespoon of allspice, one ounce of cloves, half of a grated 
nutmeg, and a level tablespoon of salt. Boil all together for 
a half hour, stirring thoroughly; then seal hot in jars. This 
makes delicious winter pies. 

Sweet Pickled Vegetable Marrow 

Select four or five vegetable marrows, pare, halve, and 
remove the seeds; cut them in eight or ten pieces each, put 
in a preserving kettle, and cover with fair water; boil until 
tender enough to pierce with a splint, then remove from the 
fire and drain. Make a syrup of two quarts of vinegar, two 
pounds of brown sugar, two ounces of cloves and two ounces 
of stick cinnamon, two smooth thinly sliced lemons with the 
seeds removed, and half a vanilla bean. Boil the syrup 
for ten minutes, then add the marrow, and cook for ten 
minutes, skimming carefully. If the syrup is not thick 
enough, remove the marrow and cook it down a little bit 
more; then turn it over the marrow in a crock. When cold 
cover and set away. 

Spanish Pickle 

Select, wash, and cut the stem end from fifty ripe, firm 
tomatoes; wash and remove the seeds from twelve green 
peppers; pare twenty-five red onions, break apart and wash 
one big bunch of celery; then chop all fine. Add two 
pounds of brown sugar, four quarts of vinegar, one table- 
spoon each of allspice, cloves, cinnamon, and mace, two 
tablespoons of salt, a half teaspoon of cayenne pepper, and 
one bud of garlic chopped fine with six shalots and the 
leaves from six stalks of tarragon. Boil evenly for two 
hours, stirring carefully, for as it gets boiled down thick it 
catches easily. If not quite thick enough boil another 



Preserving and PicKlin^ 549 

half hour; if it is too thick add a small quantity of 
vinegar and boil at least five minutes after it has been 
added. When the pickle is cold put away in a crock 
with a linen cloth over it; then close down the cover and 
keep in a cool dry place. This is delicious with cold 
meats. 

Sweet Pickled Quinces 

Wipe with a soft cloth, pare, core, and quarter three dozen 
quinces ; put them in the preserving kettle, cover them with 
fair water, and boil evenly until they are tender when a 
broom splint is stuck into them. Remove, drain, and set 
aside while making the syrup. For this take two quarts of 
good vinegar, three pounds of sugar, two ounces of whole 
cloves, and two ounces of fresh stick cinnamon, broken into 
two-inch lengths. Boil for ten minutes, skimming carefully, 
then add the quinces and boil for five minutes ; then remove 
them with a skimmer and put them into an enamel sieve 
to drain. Boil the syrup down a little, adding what has 
drained from the fruit and a small piece of green ginger that 
has been washed clean ; turn the fruit into a clean dry crock 
and turn the syrup over it. When cold, cover and set away 
in a cool place. In handling the fruit be careful not to 
break the pieces or the pickle will not look inviting when 
served. 

Tomato Figs 

Take six pounds of sugar and sixteen pounds of firm ripe 
tomatoes which must be scalded to remove their skins. Put 
them in a preserving kettle and cook them in their own juice 
until the sugar penetrates and they are clarified ; then remove 
them from the syrup and spread them on dishes, flattening 
each tomato slightly, and set them in the sun to dry. Occa- 
sionally add a small amount of syrup while they are drying. 
When they are dried pack them down in boxes, sprinkling 
over each layer a little powdered sugar. The box must be 



55^ Preserving and PicKlin^ 

lined with waxed paper. Tin, wooden, or even paper boxes 
will do as long as they are tight. Tomatoes fixed in this 
manner will make a tempting winter conserve and be an 
unusual addition to the winter menu. 

Mustard Pickle 

Let stand in a light brine overnight (a handful of salt to 
two quarts of water) one quart each of coarsely chopped 
green tomatoes, large cucumbers cut in inch length pieces, 
small cucumbers whole, silver-skinned onions pared, two red 
peppers chopped fine, and one large cauliflower broken into 
sprays. In the morning drain well and scald, then lay in a 
crock and pour over the following : two cups of brown sugar, 
one cup of flour, six tablespoons of dry mustard, one table- 
spoon of tumeric, one and a half tablespoons of salt, and 
blend all with two quarts of heated vinegar. Stir con- 
stantly over a moderate heat until the mixture thickens, 
then turn it over the pickles, allowing them to cool. When 
cold cover down closely. 

SUMMER SALAD VINEGARS 

To vary the flavoring of the French dressing so popular 
and generally used for summer salads, one should follow 
the English fashion of making a stock of flavored vinegars. 
They are simple to make, and add a flavoring which is 
impossible to get in any other way in the dressing used 
from day to day. 

Garlic or Shalot Vinegar 

The garlic vinegar is made by putting into a quart of 
white vinegar two ounces of minced garlic. The shalot 
vinegar is made in the same way, using two ounces of minced 
shalot. After standing three weeks, these vinegars, if 
not used by that time, may be strained and turned back into 
the bottle, lest they become too strongly flavored. 



Preserving and PicKling 55 1 

Horseradish Vinegar 

Take three ounces of freshly scraped horseradish, a 
saltspoon of cayenne pepper, one ounce of finely chopped 
shalots, and add them to a quart of good vinegar. Pour 
into a clean bottle, cork tightly, and label. Strain as it is 
used. 

Cress or Celery Vinegar 

To one quart of fresh cider vinegar add a half ounce of 
crushed cress seed, with a half saltspoon of cayenne pepper. 
If it is desired to make this stronger, then three tablespoons 
of chopped, fresh cress may be put into the vinegar first 
and brought to boiling point, then carefully strained out, 
and when the vinegar is cold the seed may be added and 
it may be bottled. The celery seed is used in the same way 
and the same idea may be carried out with the fresh celery 
but it is not as good as to use only the seed, for without 
it is kept in a cold place and used soon after being made it is 
apt to ferment. 

Chili Vinegar 

Put fifty carefully washed and bruised little sweet pep- 
pers into a quart of the finest vinegar; let them stand one 
month, then strain, put in one fresh pepper and a pinch of 
cayenne, and bottle again for use. 

Sweet Spiced Vinegar 

To a quart and a pint of cider vinegar add one pound of 
brown sugar, a thinly sliced lemon, a teaspoon of cloves, a 
handful of broken cinnamon sticks, a tiny piece of green 
ginger, carefully washed ; turn into a porcelain-lined kettle, 
and when melted together boil ten minutes, skimming care- 
fully; simmer slowly five minutes, remove from the fire, 
and when cold bottle and cork. This is excellent to add 



552 Preserving' and PicKlin^ 

to almost any of the different salads where fruit is used, but 
of course in a small quantity. 

Beet, tarragon, mint, and fennel vinegar are all well 
known and are nice to have on the pantry shelf. 

RECIPES FOR HOME-MADE KETCHUPS 

With all the good condiments that are offered in the shops 
it seems as though one need not bother with making them 
at home, but on the other hand if one has a productive 
kitchen garden or orchard, the materials are ripe and in 
quantity and it is wanton waste not to use them. The 
suburban housewife has more time to do these things than 
the city dweller and also more room to make and store them 
in; besides, doing a great deal of entertaining, she uses 
more things of this sort. 

Good ketchups are always acceptable with cold meats or 
fish, and it is wise to have several kinds stowed away to 
choose from. 

Tomato Ketchup 

Wash one peck of ripe, firm tomatoes and cut off the stem 
end; place in a porcelain kettle with one pint of cold water 
and cook until they are very soft, then strain first through a 
colander, then through a sieve, Return to the kettle and add 
one tablespoon of salt, one of ground pepper, one of ground 
cloves, one teaspoon of cayenne pepper, a quarter pound of 
dry mustard, and a tablespoon of celery seed tied in a muslin 
bag. Boil for four hours, stirring occasionally. The last 
hour when it is thick stir almost constantly, then turn into 
a crock and when perfectly cold add one pint of strong vine- 
gar, remove the celery seed, stir, bottle, cork, and seal. 
Keep in a cool, dark, and dry place. 

Mushroom Ketchup 

Choose one peck of freshly picked mushroom flaps that 
have been gathered on a dry day. Wash them carefully and 



Preserving and PicKlin^ 553 

place a layer in a deep crock, sprinkle salt on them, then 
another layer of mushrooms, and so on until they are all 
used. Let them stand a few hours, then break them with 
the hands and put in a cool place for three days, occasionally 
stirring and mashing them to extract as much juice as pos- 
sible. Then measure the quantity of liquor without drain- 
ing off the mushrooms and add to each quart a half ounce of 
ground ginger, a half ounce of allspice, a quarter ounce of 
cayenne pepper, and two blades of mace. Put all into a jar 
or jars, set into boiling water and let boil for three hours. 
Turn into a porcelain kettle and let simmer for a half hour, 
turn into a jug and let stand overnight, then pour it off 
into another jug, strain, and pour into very clean dry bottles. 
All this is done to leave the sediment, so do not squeeze 
or press the mushrooms. Cork and seal. It should be 
looked at occasionally and if it is not keeping well remove 
and boil over, adding a few whole peppercorns. 

Grape Ketchup 

Select, wash, and stem five pounds of ripe Isabella grapes, 
place them in the kettle with a pint of cold water, let heat 
slowly, then boil until the grapes are done; strain through 
a colander and after the kettle is rinsed return the juice 
to it and add one pint of vinegar, two and a half pounds of 
sugar, one teaspoon each of pepper, cinnamon, cloves, all- 
spice, and a half teaspoon of salt. Boil until slightly thick- 
ened, then bottle, cork, and seal. 

Liver Ketchup 

This is rather unusual in the sauce line, but epicures 
delight in its use especially with cold game. Take one fresh 
beef liver and rub it well with salt, place in a crock, and rub 
and turn it daily in the salt for a week; then mince it into 
small dice and boil it in a gallon of water closely covered 
until reduced to three quarts. Strain through a sieve 
and let settle and cool until next day. Add one ounce of 



554 Preserving and PicKling 

ground ginger, one ounce of allspice, two ounces of whole 
black pepper, and boil slowly until reduced one half. When 
cold, bottle and seal. 

Walnut Ketchup 

In early August the walnuts are young and soft and 
are just right for this use. Take one hundred walnuts, 
slightly bruise them, and put them into a crock with a quart 
of vinegar and a handful of salt. Let them stand for a 
week, stirring them daily. Then drain off the liquor and 
boil it with a quarter ounce each of mace, nutmeg, cloves, 
and whole black peppercorns; a small piece of horseradish, 
twenty shalots, a quarter pound of anchovies; boil for a 
half hour, then bottle, cork, and seal. 



INVALID COOKERY 

The art of invalid cookery seems to be one that is woe- 
fully neglected, and when the need arises for its use, even in 
a slight degree, it seems to puzzle most people to decide 
what to get or how to cook the article. Little and often is 
the way to feed most convalescents, and to keep things both 
palatable and nourishing at the same time takes considerable 
intelligent thought. 

The fruits allowable usually are the baked apples and 
stewed prunes, white grapes seeded, cut in half, and dropped 
on cracked ice. The fresh orange pulp freed from all skin or 
the grapefruit pulp treated in the same way make a drink 
as well as food. 

For the Sick Room 

Eggs must be absolutely beyond reproach for use in the 
sick room. They may be used in eggnog, sherry and egg, 
soft boiled, or the white delicately poached. The yolk being 
the fat of the egg, is not always considered light enough for 
the invalid stomach. The white dropped into a glass of ice 
water, but not stirred, and fed spoon by spoon is a favorite 
way, especially for children. It is well never to make things 
in large quantity, for the invalid appetite is so capricious 
that it may weary of a delicacy after one taste. 

Modern science has put into jars, bottles, and cans all 
manner of broths and dainties, but the things that are really 
best appreciated are the little things that are made at home. 
Everything that goes to the invalid should be as dainty as 
possible, and be removed as soon as the invalid is finished 

555 



556 Invalid CooKery 

with it. Broths are always a standby, and possibly the 
following recipes may aid the inexperienced in preparing 
them. 

Clam Broth 

Wash twenty-five round clams and cover them with half a 
cup of cold water, cover and let slowly come to a boil. When 
all are steamed open, strain off the liquor and it is ready 
for use. It may be hot or chilled. The clams can be put 
into a cream dressing and served as a luncheon dish for the 
well ones of the family. In this way nothing goes to waste. 

Chicken Broth 

Take one fresh fowl, prepared and jointed carefully, 
and place it in a kettle with one quart of water. Simmer 
gently, skimming carefully until the meat leaves the bones. 
Remove the meat and add juice of a tiny onion, one stalk of 
celery, pepper, salt, and the bones. Simmer half an hour, 
strain, and when cold remove all grease and it is ready to use 
as needed. Rice may be boiled and a teaspoon added as it 
is needed; if it is not all used at once it is apt to sour. 

Mutton Broth 

One pound of the scrag end of the neck of mutton is needed 
for this, and two pints of water, salt, and pepper. Skim 
carefully, let cook one hour, strain, and cool. When cold 
remove every particle of fat and it is ready for use. Pearl 
barley may be boiled in fair water and added as it is needed, 
if it is liked. 

Gruels 

Corn meal, arrowroot, and rice gruel are all made in the 
same way by mixing two tablespoons of meal in cold water 
and simmering gently an hour or more, straining and add- 
ing a gill of cream and a tiny bit of butter. 



Invalid CooKery 557 

FOOD HINTS 

Clam, oyster, and eel broths are all nourishing and refresh- 
ing if the patient likes them. 

In reheating broths only heat as much as the patient needs 
at one time; never heat a second time the same broth. 

Breads for the invalid's use should be "pulled " or toasted 
and stale. 

Daintily broiled chicken, steak, lamb chops, squab, quail, 
oysters, and sweetbreads are among the best of fare for 
invalids. Boiled tripe, calves' liver, and frogs' legs are easily 
digested. 

Wine Jelly 

Soak in half a pint of cold water one box of gelatine ; put 
with one pint of sherry, one pint of sugar, one pint of water, 
one clove, the rind of one lemon, and the beaten whites of two 
eggs in a saucepan over the fire, stir for ten minutes and 
when it bubbles move back but keep at boiling point for 
half an hour; strain into molds and put on ice. 

Invalids' Jelly 

Soak and scrub twelve shanks of mutton in cold water, 
put them with one pound of lean beef, three quarts of 
water, one onion, a bunch of sweet herbs, pepper, salt, bay 
leaf, one clove, a slice of toast, and two blades of mace into a 
stewpan, and simmer for five hours. Strain and when cold 
remove all grease. Use part as jelly and part as soup, heat- 
ing and adding a little macaroni that has been boiled. 

Orange Jelly 

Dissolve one half box of gelatine in half a cup of cold 
water ; take the pulp and juice of six oranges and two lemons 
and one cup of sugar; stir all together and add one cup 
of boiling water, stir well, strain into molds and chill. 
Lemon and pineapple jellies may be made in the same way, 
only add a dash of rum to the pineapple. 



558 Invalid CooKery 

Stewed Calf's Foot 

Carefully clean a calf's foot and stew three hours in a 
pint of milk and a pint of water, with the rind of half a lemon, 
one blade of mace, one minced onion, pepper, and salt. Just 
before serving, remove meat from bones and add half a 
cup of cream. Serve with sippets of toast. 

Fresh Codfish 

Boil a two-pound piece of fresh cod twenty minutes, 
remove all skin and bones, lightly shred with a silver fork, 
make a rich cream sauce, pour over the fish, and serve 
on toast. 

Stewed Cutlet 

Have the cutlet cut from the loin or ribs of mutton, 
removing all fat. Put in a stewpan with two cups of 
water, a stalk of celery cut fine, half an onion minced, and 
stew two hours, skimming all fat that rises to the surface. 
Take out the cutlet, strain the gravy over it, and serve hot. 

Asparagus Pudding 

Wash and boil one bunch of green asparagus twenty 
minutes. Cut the green heads from the stalks, beat four 
eggs into one cup of milk, add half a cup of cracker crumbs 
mixed with two tablespoons of flour, one ounce of butter, 
half a cup of the asparagus water, salt, and pepper; put in a 
baking dish and bake half an hour or until brown. 

NOURISHING DRINKS 

If cups or tumblers "slop over" their contents are unin- 
viting; the rims of cups and glasses should be absolutely dry 
and the saucers dry also. Straws are often a comfort, as 
well as the drinking "ducks" and short-handled spoons. Ice 
should never be put into the invalid's glass, but things to be 



Invalid CooKery 559 

served cold should be chilled before serving. Here are some 
nourishing or cooling liquid foods and beverages, as they are 
best prepared for invalids. 

Nourishing Lemonade 

One and a half pints of boiling water, the juice of four 
lemons, the rinds of two, half a pint of sherry, four eggs, six 
ounces of loaf sugar. Pare thinly the rinds of two lemons, 
put in a jug with the sugar, and turn over the hot water; 
let it cool, then add the wine, lemon juice, and beaten eggs; 
mix well, strain, and set away to cool. 

Egg Wine 

One egg, one glass of sherry, sugar, and grated nutmeg to 
taste. Beat the egg with a tablespoon of water; mix the 
wine and half a glass of water and heat it, but do not let it 
boil ; pour over the egg, stirring all the time ; add the sugar 
and the nutmeg; place on gentle fire in a clean pan and stir 
one way until it thickens; do not boil it. Serve in a glass 
with crisp wafers. 

Barley Gruel 

Two ounces of pearl barley, half a pint of port, the rind 
of one lemon, sugar to taste. Wash the barley well and boil 
it in half a pint of water a quarter of an hour; strain off 
the water and add a quart of boiling water ; let boil until re- 
duced to one half; strain and add the wine, sugar, and lemon 
peel; simmer five minutes, then strain into a clean jug and put 
away to cool. It may be warmed as needed or served cold. 

Toast Water 

^ver one slice of carefully made toast pour one quart of 
boiling water, let cool and strain, and it is ready for use. 
For a very delicate person or a child the white of an egg 
broken into a glass of toast water, not stirred or beaten, is 
very nourishing. 



560 Invalid CooKery 

Pineapple Fizz 

To the juice of one pineapple add four tablespoons of 
powdered sugar and the juice of one lemon, chill on ice ; to a 
quarter of a glass of the mixture add vichy to fill the glass. 
A most refreshing drink. Vichy may also be used with milk. 

Milk punch and eggnog are excellent if the milk is rich 
and the eggs are fresh. Cold consomme is a good standby 
if well made, and a little good sherry is added just before 
serving. Mulled wine, if served very hot and spicy and 
made with strained honey instead of sugar, is the influenza 
drink par excellence. 

Wine Whey 

Scald one cup of milk, add one cup of wine, cook gently 
until it wheys; strain through cheese cloth; chill, and serve. 

Corn Meal Gruel 

Mix one tablespoon of yellow corn meal, half a teaspoon 
of salt, and two tablespoons of cold water; simmer gently 
for one hour. In the serving bowl put two tablespoons of 
rich cream and one lump of sugar; strain in the gruel, stir, 
and serve. Arrowroot gruel is made the same way, only 
cooked ten minutes instead of an hour. 

Nutritious Coffee 

Grind half an ounce of good coffee, and add it to one pint 
of hot milk; boil three minutes, add one well beaten egg; 
strain into cup containing one lump of sugar. 

Tea 

If tea is used, be sure that it is infused with fresh water 
that has just come to a boil; never boil tea; never let it 
stand more than three minutes on the leaves and never 
warm it over. The best way is to pour it off into a second 
hot teapot, in which it may be kept hot as long as desired. 



Invalid CooKery 561 

FOR RHEUMATIC DIETS 

(Menus are offered from which suggestions may be culled 
to plan other meals for persons so afflicted) 

Breakfast 

Baked Apple and Cream 

Farina 

Whites of Eggs, Poached on Toast ; Strips of Crisp Bacon 

Cocoa 

It is well for people past middle life who are troubled with 
rheumatism to drink plenty of pure water. A large cup of 
either cold or warm lithia water taken before breakfast is 
often advised. The apples — large, juicy ones — should be 
baked till soft, though not mushy, and dusted lightly with 
sugar. 

Be sure that the cereal is thoroughly cooked and serve 
it hot or jellied with cream. 

A little crisp bacon is allowed, while other pork products 
are barred. Avoid the use of the yolks of the eggs, but 
poach the whites and serve them on slices of whole wheat 
bread toasted and buttered with sweet butter. Make 
the cocoa with part milk and part water, using saccharine 
tablets to sweeten it. 

Luncheon 

Chicken Consomme, Toast Fingers 

Creamed Codfish. Boiled Asparagus 

Boiled Rice and Apple Jelly 

Milk, Cold or Hot 

Chicken consomme, made in the usual way, should be 
served hot. Have the toast fingers well dried and serve 
without butter. 

Thicken the cream for the cold flaked boiled cod with 
butter and flour rubbed to a smooth paste. Serve the boiled 
asparagus on toast with a little butter, salt, and pepper. 
36 



562 Invalid CooKery 

The rice should be boiled till quite soft. Add a little 
fresh butter and salt to it and a little cream, if desired. 
A dessertspoon of apple jelly will add to the attractiveness. 
Milk, hot or cold, may be served, or any of the good table 
waters, though it is best for the patient to drink as little as 
possible during meals. 

Dinner 

Green Pea Soup 
Broiled Chicken. Baked Potatoes. String Beans. Let- 
tuce Salad. Toasted Whole Wheat Crackers 
Prune Souffle. Black Coffee 

One pint of green split peas well washed, two quarts cold 
water, three sliced onions, one thin slice of bacon with its 
rind for flavor are used for the soup. Cover tightly and 
cook several hours, mash through a puree sieve, season, 
and serve with toast squares. 

Be sure that the chickens for broiling are young and 
tender. Season them with butter, pepper, and salt and gar- 
nish with watercress. When the potatoes begin to shrivel in 
the oven prick each one with a steel fork in two or three places 
to let out the gas. Boil the string beans after careful string- 
ing, drain thoroughly; season with butter, pepper, and salt. 

After carefully washing and drying the lettuce, serve with 
a dressing made of three tablespoons of olive oil to one of 
lemon juice, a dash of pepper and pinch of salt. Toast the 
whole wheat crackers and spread lightly with fresh butter 
or cover them with a little sour cream. 

Stone fresh stewed prunes that have been cooked without 
sugar. Chop enough to make one cup, add the whites of 
three well beaten eggs whipped light, and bake in lightly 
buttered baking dish until it puffs up. Serve hot or cold 
with cream. No sugar or milk is allowed with the coffee. 

Home Nursing 

There are many little points for those who are nursing in 



Invalid CooKery 563 

the home to know that are of the utmost importance for the 
comfort of the ill, besides the preparation of the invalid's 
tray and the food that goes on it. 

The absolute cleanliness of the room is a necessity, 
prompt removal of soiled dishes and glasses, empty bottles, 
soiled linen and fading flowers, while no strong odored 
fruits should be allowed to stand in the room a moment. 

Remember to shield the light from the patient day or 
night. Oil squeaking door hinges and soap the sills and 
edges if the door sticks. If a coal stoye is used put the 
coal in paper bags and put one on the fire when needed. 

Gently, but firmly, restrict all friendly visits to fifteen 
minutes, if allowed at all, and suggest that the visitors intro- 
duce only pleasant topics into their conversation while 
they stay. 

Never stand over an invalid's bed and consult with an- 
other about food, or, in fact, anything that concerns him 
or her, for it makes the invalid nervous and irritable. It is 
enough to worry about those things when one is able to walk 
about, but on the flat of one's back it is torture. 

Realizing the great power of mind in these days the cheer- 
ful nurse is the only one to have — one who seems a tower of 
strength to the weak one. If asked to read the paper pick 
out the newsy bright articles, speak distinctly, and do not 
rattle the paper needlessly. 

When feeding invalids with a spoon sit close enough to do 
it deftly, so that they are not afraid of being choked or 
drenched by its contents. 

When the patient is ready for the night let the nurse be 
ready for quiet also and not fidget around until the patient 
is wide-awake and nervous. 

Never startle an ill person by coming from behind him; 
always come toward him, and speak naturally and quietly 
lest he grow confused as to one's identity. It worries 
the weak to keep clearly the persons in mind about them 
if there are a number coming and going. 

Do not attempt to stir a patient into a lively sense of 



564 Invalid CooKery 

gratitude for flowers, fruit, and so on sent by friends, but 
keep the cards, as it is amusing to answer them during 
the convalescent period. 

Bells, clocks, pianos, or any noise that annoys should be 
guarded against. 

The advent of the tray is always an interesting event in 
the patient's day and to prepare it is a great art. It must 
be exquisitely dainty so that it seems appetizing, and small 
portions only served at a time lest the sight of too much 
turn the patient's desire. 



RECOMMENDED CHILDREN'S DIETS 

Here is the ideal diet for a child from eighteen months to 
two years: 

Breakfast 

Juice of one sweet orange, one half hour before eating; 
cereal with top milk, glass of milk, and bread and butter. 
Cream of wheat, farina, oatmeal or hominy preparations 
well cooked will do. The bread should be at least a day old 
and the butter sweet. 

Forenoon 

A glass of milk with two toasted biscuits, graham crackers, 
or zwieback. 

Dinner 

Soup or broth thickened with peas, sago, or rice, or vege- 
table soup with yolk of egg, or soft boiled egg with bread 
crumbs, and a glass of milk. Plain puddings, like rice, 
bread, tapioca, blanc-mange, junket, or custard. 

Beef juice with bread crumbs is often used instead of the 
soups, eggs, or broths. Apple sauce and prune pulp may 
be used instead of the puddings. The total amount of milk 
the child should have during the twenty-four hours is one 
and a half quarts. 

The beef juice is easily extracted by means of any of the 
simple squeezers after the beef has been slightly warmed to 
start the juice flowing. 

565 



566 Recommendecl CKildren's Diets 

The yolk of egg is added to the clear vegetable soup to 
give it body, and the vegetables should be the best and 
freshest that can be procured. 

Supper 

A glass of milk, warm or cold, zwieback, and custard or 
stewed fruit. This is a light meal, for bedtime follows 
close upon it and a sleepy baby is not apt to be a hungry 
baby, so it does not demand either quantity or variety. 

A good diet for a child from two to three years old: 

Breakfast 

Juice of one sweet orange. Farina with top milk (sixteen 
ounces) or a soft boiled egg and toast. Glass of milk. 

If the orange is not available or the child likes a change, 
one ounce of pineapple juice (fresh or canned) or the 
pulp of six stewed prunes or apple given a half hour before 
breakfast. 

Dinner 

Chicken soup, or mutton or beef broth thickened with 
arrowroot, split peas, or rice. Scraped beef or white meat of 
chicken, or baked potato and fresh peas. Rice pudding. 

Broiled fish may be used as a change from the chicken 
meat or the scraped beef. Spinach or carrots may be used 
instead of peas, but all must be carefully cooked. Baked 
apple, apple sauce, junket, or custard may be offered to 
vary the pudding. 

Supper 

Cream of wheat, or egg with toast. Stewed fruit. 
Bread and milk, bread and cocoa, or bread and custard 
may be used in turn, for breakfast. 

A sample menu for the child from three to five years old, 
approved by the New York City Board of Health : 



Secomxnenclecl CHilclren*s Diets 567 

Breakfast 

Stewed primes. 

Boiled hominy, cream, and sugar. 

Soft boiled egg, toast, cocoa. 

The more rigorously the diet for the child from three to six 
years is governed the more freedom there will be from the 
usual childish disorders. The prunes should be stewed ab- 
solutely tender, and but a very small amount of sugar added 
to them. The hominy must be well cooked and salted, and 
only a small amount of sugar and thin cream used over it. 

The egg, soft boiled, and the toast, carefully made and 
lightly buttered with fresh butter, or pulled bread, if the 
child is tired of toast, must be served immediately that they 
are ready. The cocoa may be made with half milk, half 
water, if the child is inclined to be of a bilious temperament; 
otherwise all milk and as little sugar as will content the 
child's sweet taste should be used. 

Dinner 

Beef soup, toast fingers. 

Lamb chops, broiled; baked potato, string beans. 

Fresh lettuce. 

Rice pudding. 

The beef soup that has been made with the vegetables 
should be allowed to stand and get cold, so that the grease 
may be taken from the top. Then heat only enough with 
the vegetables for the child's one plate. Have the toast 
fingers dry and crisp. 

Broil the chops delicately, sprinkle with salt, and add 
a little fresh butter. Remove the baked potato from the 
skin, mash lightly with a fork, add a little fresh butter and 
salt and a few drops of cream. See that the beans have been 
carefully strung and well boiled in fair water ; do not add any 
seasoning until they are drained, and then only a little fresh 
butter and salt. 

Wash thoroughly fresh, crisp lettuce leaves; take a table- 



568 Recom mended CKildren's Diets 

spoon of olive oil, salt, and the juice of a lemon and sprinkle 
lightly over the salad. This dressing will be enough for two 
days. No vinegar or pepper should be used for a child of 
this age. Remember the taste is not sufficiently cultivated 
to miss it, and the little stomach will be much better off 
without it. 

The rice pudding should be made creamy and soft, and 
there is no objection to having a few large seeded raisins in 
it. It may be served hot or cold, as the child likes it best. 
If possible, do not offer anything to drink with this meal, but 
if it is demanded use a little cool, but not iced, spring water. 

Supper 

Milk toast. 

Stewed fruit, custard. 

Glass of milk. 

Cut the crusts off, toast the bread slices evenly, and lay 
them in the dish; heat a pint of fresh milk, add a pinch of 
salt and sugar, a small lump of butter. Thicken slightly 
with a little cornstarch, if the child prefers; turn it over the 
toast and serve immediately. 

The stewed fruit may be of any kind which the child 
fancies, with a little light cream over it. A cup custard or 
a dish of plain boiled custard that ha.s been chilled makes a 
most satisfactory dessert. 

As children usually rise early, it is a long time from their 
breakfast to the i o'clock luncheon hour, so at half past ten 
it is better to let them have a thin jelly sandwich and a glass 
of milk. Again at about three is an excellent time for some 
home-made cookies and a glass of the juice of some fresh 
fruit. 

Five Meals Served a Day 

The half past five dinner will make five times that the 
child has been fed since seven, but with so much judgment 
and understanding that he has had just enough to eat. 



Recommended CHildren's Diets 569 

and comfortably clothed and allowed the proper amount 
of bathing and sleep he should thrive. 

Though it may startle some women, it is generally 
acknowledged that ice cream is one of the best and most 
healthful things a child can eat, that is, if it is made of pure 
cream and sugar, flavored delicately with the soft inside 
part of the vanilla bean. As much flavoring as can rest on 
the point of a small knife will flavor a whole quart of cream. 

As to cake, the lightest of sponge cake, with or without 
jelly, gingerbread, zweiback, and home-made cookies fur- 
nish quite a sufficient variety. 

Too much cannot be said against cheap candy. The ex- 
posure of its frightful adulterations ought to frighten even 
the most careless mother and to have broken the pernicious 
"penny" habit. 

The best is the cheapest in the end and the wise mother 
will buy the best she can find. Clear, hard candy is very 
good and should be given to the child little by little as he 
may crave for it. 

Irritability will not be found manifested to any great 
extent in a child who is systematically cared for, whose 
stomach is satisfied, who has plenty of sleep and enough air, 
and who is gently directed rather than forced into the way 
he should go. 

Simple Menus the Best 

These menus will be helpful for the mother to start with : 

BREAKFAST — 7 A.M. 

Moulded Cereal (Gluten), with Prunes and Cream 

Soft Boiled Eggs, Buttered Toast 

Cocoa 

WEE BITE — 10.30 A.M. 

Ctirrant Jelly Sandwich and Glass of Milk 



57^ Recommendecl CKildren's Diets 

LUNCHEON — I P.M. 

Bouillon, Toast Fingers 
Broiled Lamb Chops, Baked Potato 
Lettuce, Simple Dressing 
Tapioca Pudding 

WEE BITE — 3 P.M. 

Cookies and Fruit Juice Drink 

DINNER — 5.30 P.M. 

Creamed Chicken on Toast 
Baked Custard. Zweiback. Milk 

No fried food or hot bread is considered good for a child to 
eat. He should be fed whole wheat bread a day old, white 
bread toasted; graham and brown bread occasionally for 
variety, and a few of the crackers which the market offers. 

A child seems naturally fond of unsalted butter, and it is 
better for him than the salted. 

The Right Salad Dressing 

For the various lettuces which are good for the child a 
dressing may be made of a few drops of olive oil, salt, and 
lemon juice, or a light mayonnaise dressing, made without 
mustard, if the child likes it. Oil is excellent for the health 
if used freely, but had best be dropped if disliked, a point for 
the mother to watch and decide upon herself, as no rule will 
work in all cases. 

General Feeding 

Whites of eggs poached are delicate and often liked, where 
the yolk will be refused. All well cooked vegetables 
simply dressed may be added in turn to the simple menu. 
A little rare roast beef and now and then a tender steak at 
noonday, roast lamb and chicken cooked in different waj^s 
are always well liked by children. Cream vegetable soups, 



Recommended CKildren's Diets 571 

clam and oyster broth, broiled fresh fish or baked blue- 
fish and potatoes, baked or creamed, are good and whole- 
some. There is nothing more easily digested than stewed 
tripe or creamed sweetbreads, if the child likes them. 
Broiled squab is another favorite with almost all children. 

CHILDREN'S FAVORITE DISHES 

Of course, there are always things that wise mothers 
think that their children should eat whether they like them or 
not, simply because tradition and the family doctor say so; 
but the more modern idea is that the food that is not 
taken with a relish because it tastes good does not nourish 
the system or gratify the small person in any way. Chil- 
dren's tastes, though simpler than grown people's, are just 
as decided, and their loathings and likes are just as pro- 
nounced. It is said that the taste changes every seven 
years; and in that case why worry? The child who refuses 
to eat eggs, fruit, or fish to-day will turn to them when he 
feels the need for them, or in some way the taste is aroused 
for them. 

There seems to be an almost universal liking for sweets 
among normal children, and the only difficulty is to turn 
this liking into the safest channels. Milk and cocoa seem 
to be the favorite beverages, with lemonade or orangeade 
for a cold drink. Ice cream is usually popular, especially 
vanilla and chocolate. Fish, strong flavored vegetables, 
highly seasoned meats, or very rich salads are rarely liked by 
children. The recipes given are for a few general favorites, 
and the little menu is good for a children's luncheon party. 

Menu 

Chicken Bouillon. Finger Rolls 

French Chops. Peas. Mashed Potatoes 

Fruit Salad 

Vanilla Ice Cream. Sponge Cake 

Cocoa 



572 Recommendedl CKildren's Diets 

The bouillon may be served hot or cold, the chops deli- 
cately broiled and the peas served around them, and the 
mashed potato should be beaten up very light and creamy. 
The fruit salad may be made with a good mayonnaise 
made without mustard, or with a creamy boiled dressing 
which is allowed to cool before using it on the salad. The 
ice cream is the best ever if made at home, the real boiled 
custard sort being immensely popular with the little people, 
while sponge cake, lady fingers, and the cooky family seem 
to be proprietary dainties of childhood. 

Rice Soup 

Throw four ounces of well washed Patna rice into boiling 
water and let it boil five minutes. Then pour into a sieve 
and allow it to drain well. Then add it to two quarts of boil- 
ing white stock. Add salt, pepper, and a pinch of mace. 
Just before it goes to table put a few spoons of whipped 
cream over the top and serve with toasted bread sippets. 

Tapioca, though best known associated with pudding 
history, is a most excellent soup medium as well. It is 
made from the pith of the cassava tree, native to the East 
Indies and Brazil. Its nutritive properties are great and 
especially adapted to delicate digestions. 

Tapioca Soup 

Put five ounces of tapioca into two quarts of cold white 
stock and bring it gradually to a boil. Simmer for an hour 
or longer until it is tender. Season to taste, and just before 
serving add a wineglass of good sherry and serve with dry 
toast fingers. 

In using chops for the nursery folks the lamb chops 
delicately broiled are the only sort used. The small Ham- 
burg steaks or meat cakes for the older children should be 
made, after the steak has been properly chopped, into small 
cakes thicker at the edges than in the center that they 
may cook through more thoroughly. They are of course 



Recommendecl CKildren's Diets 573 

broiled. Fresh and stewed fruits are highly recommended, 
and plenty of lettuce dressed with a French dressing made 
with lemon juice instead of vinegar, or eaten with salt. 

There is nothing more unhappy than a soggy baked 
potato, or anything nicer than one that is rightly cooked. 
After washing the potato, and removing the eyes if it is an 
old one, place it on the oven rack when the oven is advancing 
in heat, and after a few minutes turn it over so that it bakes 
evenly, trying to avoid its bursting if possible. This hap- 
pens of course when the starch begins to swell and the 
skin tightens under the pressure. When the potato feels 
soft and done remove it with a cloth and gently press it all 
over so as to loosen all the potato from the shell, then when 
it is broken open the steam rushes out, and the potato is 
light and mealy. The layer nearest the skin is where the 
starch lies and this is what makes the skin of the baked 
potato so good to eat. 

Creamed Potatoes 

Boil six smooth potatoes until done, then dice them, make 
a rich cream sauce, add the potatoes long enough to warm 
through, and serve garnished with toast sippets and parsley. 

Cinnamon Toast 

Children who refuse the ordinary dry toast will like cin- 
namon toast, which is made by toasting slices of bread, 
buttering, and spreading with a mixture of one tablespoon of 
sugar to one half teaspoon of cinnamon. Serve it hot. 

Cream Toast 

All children like cream toast. To make it, melt in a double 
boiler a heaping tablespoon of butter, rub in smoothly a 
slightly rounding tablespoon of flour, and stir in slowly 
one cup of hot milk or thin cream, and a pinch of salt. 
Cook till creamy, stirring constantly. Place the hot, dry 



574 Recommended CHildren's Diets 

toast on a hot platter, pour the cream sauce over it, and 
serve very hot. 

Venetian Zwieback 

Take the yolks of four eggs and half a pound of sugar; 
beat together, add the beaten snow of four whites of eggs, 
with half a cup of cake flour, and bake in a small buttered 
pan. When baked and cool, cut in thin slices or fingers, 
spread on a baking sheet, and put in the cooling oven to dry. 
Delicious to serve with iced custards or preserves. 

CHILDREN'S DESSERTS 

Fresh fruits are the choice for the foundation of most 
of the desserts for children. Of these apples, peaches, and 
grapes are first choice, with bananas and oranges next, and 
stewed fruits following. Pears are not good for the younger 
children, because they ferment in the stomach. Fruit 
souffles should be avoided because eggs cooked in this form 
are apt to be indigestible for small stomachs. 

If children can be taught to lightly sprinkle their bananas 
with salt they will be easier digested than with sugar and 
cream. Here are some ways in which fruit can be prepared 
for children. 

Jellied Grapes 

Wash two bunches of grapes, then plunge them into boil- 
ing water for half a minute. Remove skins and seeds, 
leaving a cup of pulp. Make a syrup of half a cup of sugar 
and a cup of water, add grapes and a tablespoon of Ccx's 
gelatine that has soaked in cold water. Let thoroughly 
melt and boil up, then turn into a mold. 

Apple Custard 

Make a good custard, turn into a mold to chill. Dice 
one large ripe apple and boil it in clear water a few minutes, 



Recoiximended CKildren's Diets 575 

— do not let the dice lose their shape, — drain, and when 
cold put on top of the custard and cover with whipped 
cream. 

Rice and Peaches 

Take boiled rice and place an inch deep in the mold. 
Pare, halve, and boil ripe peaches ten minutes in vanilla 
syrup, then place on a wire sieve to drain. When cold lay 
on the molded rice and cover with whipped cream. 

Macedoine Fruit 

To a cup and a half of vanilla syrup add a cup of cut 
peaches, sliced banana, a few seeded grapes, six half apri- 
cots. Boil ten minutes, then add a tablespoon of gelatine 
that has soaked in water, let melt, and boil up; then mold. 
Serve with sponge cake but no cream. 

Nutted Prunes 

Stew large prunes the usual way. When cold remove 
the stones carefully, placing a blanched almond in each 
cavity. Pile on sauce plates and serve with sweet cream 
and sponge cakes. 

Apple Tapioca 

Core and bake large ripe apples, filling the center with 
sugar. When cold have ready some boiled pearl tapioca, 
which should be seasoned with sugar and vanilla. Coat 
the apples with it and set away to chill. Serve with or 
without whipped cream as the child best likes it. A lemon 
sauce is sometimes used made of a cup of water to three 
quarters of a cup of sugar boiled until it is like syrup and 
then adding the juice of a lemon. 

Peaches Bavaroise 

Peel and halve six ripe peaches and boil in vanilla syrup 
until they are tender, then drain on wire sieve. Boil a 



576 Recommendecl CHildren's Diets 

quarter of a pint of milk, add beaten yolks of two eggs, 
return to fire, and cook long enough to slightly bind the 
eggs. Add two tablespoons of sugar and four leaves of 
gelatine that has soaked in cold water, mix well until all 
is melted, then strain into a bowl. When the custard 
is cool add a quarter of a pint of whipped cream. Dice a 
slice of pineapple, halve and stone a handful of cherries, 
flavor with a tablespoon of maraschino, and add to the 
custard. Pour it into a deep dish to set. When cold place 
the peaches in a ring on the top, with a cup of whipped 
cream in the center, and serve with apricot syrup. 

Molded Prunes 

Boil a pound of large French prunes. When cool stone 
them and slip in a blanched almond in place of the stone. 
Make a good wine sauce, arrange in a mold with the prunes, 
put in a cold place to set and chill. Make a boiled custard, 
using the whites of the eggs to make the kisses to put over 
the top. Chill this also, and when ready to serve place the 
jelly on a plate and pour the custard around it, putting 
three of the kisses on top as decoration. 

Prune Souffle 

The souffle may be made by stoning a cup and a half 
of stewed prunes and chopping them fine. Add the beaten 
whites of four eggs, two teaspoons of powdered sugar, whip 
very light, and turn into a pudding dish which has been 
very slightly greased. Bake until it puffs up, then remove 
from the oven and serve with whipped cream. 

Apple Float 

Beat till stiff the whites of two eggs, add sugar, and mix 
lightly with two cups of very smooth apple sauce; set away 
to chill. Make a smooth custard and chill that also; then 
place the apple mixture in the center of the dish and turn 
the custard around it. 



Recommended CKildren's Diets 577 

Children's Pudding 

A Christmas pudding for children has the following 
ingredients : 

One pound of flour, one pound of bread crumbs, three 
quarters of a pound of stoned raisins, three quarters of a 
pound of currants carefully washed, three quarters of a 
pound of finely chopped suet, two ounces of candied peel 
chopped, one teaspoon of powdered allspice, half a salt- 
spoon of salt, and a teaspoon of vanilla. Beat well together, 
adding sufhcient milk to make it of the right consistency. 
Cover it with a floured cloth and boil for at least five hours. 
Serve with a hard sauce flavored with vanilla, and garnish 
with holly. 

Children's Vanilla Cream 

One quart of pure cream, a half cup of sugar that has been 
melted with a tablespoon of hot water and allowed to cool ; 
scrape from the inside of the vanilla bean as much of the 
soft center as would fill half a saltspoon, add it to the mix- 
ture, and freeze. If this cream is to be used for an invalid, 
the sugar is left out entirely, and it thereby makes the 
purest cream known and most nourishing. 

French Peach Cream 

Take two quarts of ripe peaches, or a dozen good sized 
peaches, pare, cut fine, and sprinkle with one pint of sugar. 
Stand in a cool place one hour ; then add one quart of cream 
and freeze. When almost hard, add the whites of two 
stiffly beaten eggs, beat well, pack in individual molds, 
and lay in salt and ice until needed. If the cream is to 
be left in the large mold, cover and leave to ripen until 
needed. 

Biscuit Glace 

To one and a half pints of cream add the beaten yolks 
of eight eggs, twelve ounces of sugar and one tablespoon 

37 



57^ Recommended CKildren's Diets 

of extract of vanilla. Place on the stove and stir the mix- 
ture until it begins to thicken, then strain through a sieve 
into the freezer. When nearly frozen, mix in six ounces 
of crisp macaroons that have been rolled to a powder, and 
a teaspoon of vanilla flavoring. Cover tightly, finish freez- 
ing, and let ripen until needed. 

SIMPLE CAKES FOR CHILDREN 

Who is there that cannot recall the fascinating odor 
which floated from the old-fashioned kitchen on baking 
days ; when not one only but a round half dozen of pies were 
baked in the oven at once, then drawn out with a "peel" 
to rest and cool on the pantry shelves? In those days 
when asked about the day's baking the cook would say 
that she had made a "sheet" of sponge cake, a "crock " of 
doughnuts, a "card" of gingerbread, a "square" of pound 
cake, and a "baking" of seed cakes. Just a few of the old 
recipes may prove of value to modern mothers. 

Sponge Cake 

Break one dozen eggs into a large mixing bowl without 
separating, and add two cups of powdered sugar. Set 
this into a pan of boiling water and keep near the front of the 
range where it will stay at the same temperature. Beat 
with an egg-beater one half hour, then remove from the 
range and stir in the grated rind and juice of one lemon, and 
a cup of flour; pour into buttered chimney pans and bake 
in a moderate oven. Test with a broom splint and when 
done invert the pans and let cool before removing the cake. 

Berwick Sponge Cake 

Beat the yolks of six eggs very light with three cups of 
powdered sugar, add four cups of flour sifted three times, 
one teaspoon of soda, two of cream tartar, juice of half a 
lemon, then fold in the stiffly beaten whites of the six eggs and 
last of all add one cup of cold water. Bake in a quick oven. 



Recommended CKildren's Diets 579 
Soft Gingerbread 

Two cups of sifted flour and one and a half teaspoons of 
baking powder; sift this into one cup of molasses, a half 
cup of sugar, a half cup of sweet milk, a half cup of butter, 
and two eggs ; mix thoroughly and add one level tablespoon 
of ground ginger, one teaspoon of allspice, and a little 
nutmeg. Bake in a lightly buttered shallow pan. 

Favorite Cookies 

Cream two cups of sugar with one cup of butter, two 
well beaten eggs, three quarters of a cup of milk, a pinch of 
salt, five cups of sifted flour, and a heaping teaspoon of bak- 
ing powder. Mix thoroughly, roll out thinly, cut in fancy 
shapes, and bake in buttered tin in a quick oven. 

Crullers 

A cup and a half of sugar, two tablespoons of butter, 
three eggs, a large cup of rich milk, three cups of flour, 
two teaspoons of baking powder and one of salt. Cut 
into rounds with a hole in the center and fry in hot deep 
fat. When done drain and sprinkle with powdered sugar 
and pack away in a crock when cold. 

Seed Cookies 

Beat in a mixing bowl one egg, adding slowly one cup of 
granulated sugar, then one half cup of fresh milk, three 
and one half cups of flour, and one heaping teaspoon of bak- 
ing powder. Stir well and add a half cup of melted butter, 
and a heaping teaspoon of caraway or fennel seed. Beat 
well, then drop into a buttered dripping pan, smoothing it 
with the hand, sprinkle with sugar, and bake. When cold 
cut in small squares and pack in a covered crock to keep a 
bit moist. 



580 Recommendeci CKildren's Diets 
Ginger Snaps 

One half cup of butter, one cup of sugar, one cup of mo- 
lasses, one tablespoon of freshly ground ginger, two tea- 
spoons of baking powder, and flour enough to make a 
dough to roll, cut and bake. 

Jelly Sandwiches 

Make two layer cakes after the simple recipe of one 
small cup of butter, two cups of sugar, three cups of flour 
and four eggs, a teaspoon and a half of baking powder, tea- 
spoon of vanilla flavoring, and a cup of sweet milk. This 
amount will make three layers. When baked split two of 
the layers, then spread with good jam or jelly, put on the 
other layer, cut them into squares, and sprinkle with pow- 
dered sugar. Put in a cake box to keep moist. The other 
layer may be frosted and cut into squares for a plain cake. 



EASY RECIPES FOR THE LITTLE COOK 

Never has there been a little girl who did not like to cook 
or help with household tasks if she were given the least 
encouragement, and especially if her mother would really 
use the things she cooked. 

Here are just a few dishes, easy and inexpensive, to start 
her recipe book, and, with a little patient supervision by 
mother or cook during the first making and a careful writing 
down of the recipe, surely the second attempt will be 
very easy and result in the perfect product. 

Simple Tomato Soup 

Turn one can of tomatoes and one can of water into a 
clean saucepan. Pare one carrot, one small turnip, one 
potato, wash them in cold water, cut them into dice, and put 
them into the saucepan. Take one stalk of celery, a little 
bunch of parsley, wash clean and chop fine and put into 
the soup. Next take one pound of top round steak (ask the 
butcher to cut it in little squares with his sharp knife), 
then add that, with a dash of pepper, a teaspoon of salt, and 
cover the saucepan. After the soup has boiled gently for 
half an hour, add a cup of hot water, then let it cook for 
another hour, then it is ready for luncheon. Meantime take 
two slices of bread and cut them into little squares, lay 
them on a clean tin plate, and slip them into the oven to dry 
and toast. They are fine to eat with the soup. 

Broiled Chops and Potatoes 

Lay six little chops on the gridiron and broil them over the 
coals. Turn first on one side, then on the other, until they 

581 



582 Easy Recipes for tHe Little CooK 

are done; then carefully lay them on a warm platter, putting 
a little butter, pepper, and salt on each one, and set them on 
the edge of the oven to wait. Pare and slice lengthways 
four cold boiled potatoes, take a little piece of buttered 
paper and grease the wires of the gridiron, then broil the 
potatoes just as the chops were broiled, only watch them 
carefully for they burn quickly. When they are done lay 
them around the chops, putting butter, pepper, and salt on 
each, and lay a few sprays of fresh crisp parsley on the dish 
where it looks the prettiest. 

Spring Salad 

Take all the white leaves of a nice crisp head of lettuce 
and wash them carefully ; line the salad bowl with the largest 
leaves, cut the rest in pieces with the kitchen scissors. 
Count two dozen bright red radishes, wash them carefully, 
cut off the tails and tops, and slice them thin; take one nice 
cucumber, pare and slice it very thin, mix all together and 
lay in the center of the salad dish. Now take three table- 
spoons of olive oil, just a little pepper, a saltspoon of salt, a 
tablespoon of tarragon vinegar, mix carefully and turn over 
the salad. Serve at once. 

Brown Betty Pudding 

Put into a chopping bowl enough stale bread so that when 
it is chopped up there will be two cups. Pare, quarter, and 
core enough apples to make a cup and a half when they 
are chopped fine, mix them with the bread and a cup of 
sugar, a grating of nutmeg, and turn them into a well but- 
tered baking dish. Bake until they are a delicate brown. 

Now for the pudding sauce, take one cup of sugar and a 
half cup of butter, let them stand where it is warm for a few 
minutes, then with a strong spoon carefully cream them to- 
gether. When they are all creamy and smooth add a half 
teaspoon of vanilla flavoring and a grating of nutmeg, pile 



Easy Recipes for tKe Little CooK 5S3 

in a little bowl, and put in a cool place until the pudding is 
done and ready to serve. 

Quick Muffins 

One heaping cup of flour, three quarters of a teaspoon of 
baking powder, teaspoon of sugar, and a half teaspoon of 
salt. Mix all together and beat one egg in a cup of milk; 
mix this with the flour, then add enough plain milk to make 
a thick batter, — mother will tell you when it is just right. 
Butter little muffin pans and fill them half full, then bake 
them about fifteen minutes, according to the oven. 

Junket 

Take one quart of milk and warm it but do not scald it. 
Add to it a teaspoon of Shinns liquid rennet, a half a cup of 
sugar, and a dessertspoon of vanilla flavoring. Turn into a 
mold and set aside in a cool place to firm. 



CHILDREN'S PARTIES 

For wee people early parties are considered best by 
thoughtful mothers, for then regular suppers and habits are 
not interfered with; so from 3 to 6 o'clock is the favorite 
time. The invitations are generally written by the mother, 
as hostess, but the children's party paper may be used if 
preferred. 

For children from six to ten years old the games chosen 
must be selected with an eye to keeping all amused at 
the same time. 

In many instances there is a Punch and Judy show, a 
prestidigitator, or an expert with a stereopticon or moving 
picture machine. Sometimes a woman professional plans 
and leads the games. Where this is not done, then the 
mother has to be the leading spirit. 

For a Dutch party the table centerpiece is a big windmill 
Jack Homer pie, filled with little gifts in toys and other 
reminders of Holland. The refreshments include a number 
of cakes and cookies made from Holland recipes, with 
real honey loaf sandwiches. The costumes are those fa- 
miliar to us in Dutch paintings. 

An appropriate fall party is a "Puritan party," to which 
the girls come in gray gowns and white kerchiefs, and the 
boys garbed like diminutive William Penns. The games 
for this party include a corn-shelling contest, winding yarn 
on spindles, and a number of old-fashioned games which 
are new to this generation. The refreshments are marble 
cake and doughnuts served with floating island. 

For older children there are travel parties which have a 
little educational note running through them. Animal 
parties are especially pleasing to boys, and they glory in 

584 



CKilclren*s Parties 5^5 

having on a dangerous animal headpiece which strikes terror 
to the hearts of little girls. For the centerpiece in this case 
an elephant is the " Pie" and the favors are stowed away in 
the elaborate carrying saddle on his ample back. 

The salmagundi idea solves the difficulty of keeping all 
aimised at the same time. At each table, at which four 
children play, is a different game. There is a first and a 
second prize table, and the winners advance after each game. 
Parchesi, jackstraws, table baseball, Uncle Sam's mail, mixed 
pickles, puzzle building, electric questioner, and any of the 
new games that will be found in variety in the toy shops may 
be used. Then, after a game of blind man's buff, magical 
music, or "throw the handkerchief, " they will be glad to sit 
down for their refreshments, which should be ready at 4.45 
o'clock, so that they may have a little fun afterward with 
their mottoes and prizes before it is time to start for home. 

While the games are going on, if the children are thirsty 
it is a good idea to serve pure water with a light flavoring 
of natural fruit juice. Orange, lemon, pineapple, or grape 
juice will do nicely. 

IMother Goose or the vegetable place cards create much 
merriment, and with a huge Jack Horner pie for a center- 
piece and favors at each plate, the bonbon baskets, cake 
baskets, silver sandwich plates, plates and napkins, the 
necessary flat ware and glasses will be sufficient on the 
table. The favors should be of some slight value, so that 
they may be kept as souvenirs. 

There is nothing in the following simple menu suggested 
that can possibly upset the children, and the only harm it 
will do is to destroy the appetite for the simple dinner or tea 
when they get home. 

Menu 

Small Cups of Bouillon with Toast Fingers 

Breast of Chicken, Sandwiches, Cocoa 

Vanilla Ice Cream, Chocolate or Fruit Sauce 

Cake, Bonbons, Favors 



586 CKildren's Parties 

Make the bouillon in the usual way, adding a spoon of 
whipped cream as it is served and put a toast finger on 
each saucer. 

The sandwiches may have any of the various fillings that 
appeal to children. For instance, cream cheese, orange 
marmalade, minced chicken, minced tongue, chopped 
watercress and sweet butter, and finely minced roast beef 
with salt are all popular. 

The refreshments offered for the parties of younger 
children whose invitations read "from 3 to 5" are rather 
simple, and are served in buffet fashion. For those invited 
"from 4 to 7" it is best to seat the guests at the table 
and have a light dinner. If light refreshments only are 
served, they will probably be hungry when they return 
home. This is their regular supper time, and they will be 
unusually hungry with all the excitement. 

Buffet Menu 

Small Cups of Bouillon, with Toast Fingers 

Chicken Salad, Apple and Celery Salad, Fruit 

Salad 

Sandwiches, Cocoa 

Vanilla Ice Cream, Choice of Sauces, Cake 

Bonbons, Fruit Favors 

The refreshments for the little ones should be served at 
four o'clock so as not to interfere with the dinner later on. 
Make the bouillon the usual way. Use a good deal of celery 
with the chicken salad, and make light mayonnaise without 
mustard. The same applies to the celery and apple salad. 
A little pineapple juice added to the dressing improves the 
flavor. The fruit salad, after it is chilled, may be dusted 
with sugar or a cold boiled dressing may be used. The 
sandwiches can be filled with varied fillings children like — ■ 
cream cheese and orange marmalade, cream cheese with 
puree of chestnuts, minced chicken with mayonnaise, 
minced tongue with spinach mustard, chopped watercress 



CKildren's Parties 5^7 

and sweet butter, chopped banana with lemon juice and 
sugar. The breads may be varied, and whole wheat, rye, 
and gluten be used, cut thin and the crusts removed. Cut 
into fancy shapes before buttering. 

For small children the plain cakes, macaroons, and lady 
fingers are most wholesome. Bonbons will add all the 
extreme sweet that the feast demands. If fruit is served 
grapes and bananas will be least troublesome to small 
guests. 

Dinner Refreshments 

Chicken Bouillon, Whipped Cream 

Creamed Codfish Baked in Ramekins 

Chicken Croquettes, Peas, Creamed Sweetbreads 

Baked Potatoes, Rolls 

Lettuce, Cream Cheese, Walnut Salad 

Floating Island, Ice Cream 

Bonbons, Fruit 

Shred the codfish (cold boiled) and cream it, put it into 
buttered ramekins and bake. A choice of the croquettes 
and sweetbreads will be expressed by the small guests, but 
all love baked potatoes and little hot raised rolls, buttered 
with fresh butter. Take a package of cream cheese, add salt, 
a little pepper, a dash of sugar, and enough sweet cream to 
make a paste, work in a tablespoon of chopped walnuts, 
make into balls, sticking a half walnut on either side. 
Drop on lettuce leaves and make the mayonnaise with the 
walnut oil, instead of the olive oil, garnish with olives and 
rings of the whites of eggs, cold boiled. All young people are 
fond of floating island. Many prefer it to ice cream. After 
the rich, boiled custard is made, use the whites of four or 
six eggs, beaten stiff with a little sugar, then baked or rather 
browned a couple of minutes in the oven. They are more 
decorative and have more flavor than if they were raw. 

French vanilla cream is best to serve, and chocolate and 
strawberry sauces will be choice enough. 



588 CKildren's Parties 

The folding candy store is an English favor. When 
opened it stands upright, has a counter, and looks like a real 
store inside. Candy containers representing candy fruits, 
life size, are passed like the real thing, and candy charlotte 
russe, pie, and other desserts are served like the real thing, 
on candy plates with a candy fork. This always creates 
much merriment. 

Paper favors come in great variety. The vegetables are 
very natural in appearance and each contains a little favor. 
A great, big red radish eighteen inches long contains eight 
favors, while a pineapple twenty-seven inches tall and large 
around in proportion contains sixteen gifts. 

Among other favors of interest are packages of Russian 
ninepins, Russian nested toys, toy wooden barrels with 
carved figures dancing on top and containing miniature tea 
sets; tiny hand-crocheted dolls in characteristic costumes, 
small accordions with a witch and a cat dancing on top, and 
black cats whose green eyes light electrically when their 
tail is pinched. 

_,Baskets of all kinds to fill with candy include little market 
and lattodry baskets; tiny flower-trimmed hat boxes, 
ribbon-tied, contain one favor each. There are also flower 
pots of roses with each blossom holding a snap favor, and 
barnyard animal favors of all descriptions. 

Dainty fairies are used for place cards, and are very airy 
and quite decorative. Chicken place cards are in high 
favor, and a wreath of roses with a fairy in the center, which 
hangs from the water glass, is most attractive. 



SCHOOL LUNCHEONS 

With the beginning of the autumn school days, the 
mother's problem of what to put in the daily lunch-baskets 
of her children that will be at once nourishing, inviting, and 
simple to prepare, again confronts her. 

The putting-up of lunches is, with a growing family, as 
endless a task, apparently, as the daily housework, yet it 
can be lightened a bit by a little consistent planning ahead, 
such as at an odd free moment sitting down, and, with paper 
and pencil in hand, mapping out a few general lunches, that 
may be varied as materials on hand may suggest, and it 
will be a wonderful help when the time comes. 

Boys want everything simple and quickly to be disposed 
of, so the folding lunch-box and a paper napkin are all they 
are willing to stand for, in the way of the decencies of life. 
Little girls, however, enjoy the modern baskets that are 
fitted up with the little white ware plate, cup, knife, fork, 
and spoon, and the milk bottle with the glass screwed on the 
top. The comfort quite compensates them for the trouble 
of packing up the dishes for the return trip. Of course, 
the paper napkins and wax paper are necessities and should 
be bought early in the season, in quantity. 

All home-made jams, jellies, and pickles are the most 
wholesome; and in making cake, the sponge cake, ginger- 
bread, raisin pound cake, and cookies will be found most 
acceptable. They will not be so quickly tired of, and are 
easier packed than the layer variety. 

The little individual puddings made in ramekins, such as 
rice, prune, tapioca, or custard, make an agreeable change 
and are quite popular. Sandwich bread should be at least 

589 



590 ScKool LvincKeons 

one day old before using, so it must be ordered ahead of time. 
The butter must be soft enough to spread easily, but never 
should be melted. If it is wished to have the sandwiches 
richer than ordinary, add whipped cream to the butter and 
beat it lightly with a fork. 

Nuts, olives, bonbons, or home-made candy may be in 
turn the daily "surprise," and are welcome always to the 
child. Fruits of all kinds, lettuce, and all the green things 
that are to be had are healthy, and appetizing as well. 

Eggs must be used with discretion, and not too often, 
as they are apt to become distasteful, thus cutting off a 
valuable food product from the list. They may be deviled, 
hard-boiled, fried, or chopped in mayonnaise, for sandwich 
use. Tartlets or individual pies are great favorites, also, 
with children. Cream cheese and Swiss cheese are liked 
by most children, boys especially, and will not be objected 
to by sensible mothers as a one-time change used oc- 
casionally. 

If the joints of cold fowls are put in the lunch, wrap 
them in wax paper, and don't forget a little paper of pepper 
and salt mixed, to go with them. If cold boiled eggs are 
given, peel them and wrap them in wax paper the same way, 
for they keep perfectly fresh and are so much less trouble 
to the child. Now, the cold meat sandwiches should be 
thin, the meat sliced thin and evenly laid on, and the butter 
not too thickly spread; ham, lamb, tongue, rare beef, 
chicken, and turkey are all good for this kind of sandwiches. 

The minced fillings are also very popular with children, 
and may be varied by adding chopped nuts, olives, celery, 
peppers, or chow-chow with almost any kind of cold meat. 

If sardines, salmon, cold codfish, lobster, or crab meat is 
liked, add pepper, salt, and lemon juice, which is better than 
the richer dressings. The crisp fried bacon sandwich, or 
even the "frankfurter and roll," are not to be despised when 
in search for a hurry-up variety on a busy day. The 
adding of condiments to the fillings must be done accord- 
ing to what the mother thinks on the subject, as there 



ScHool L-vincHeons 591 

are a great many who feel prejudiced against highly seasoned 
food for children, so the sauces may be added or left as she 
thinks fit. 

Simple chicken salad, fruit salads, or vegetable salads 
are usually liked by children, and may be carried in the little 
paper pail, which when empty can be thrown away. Despite 
the newer things for luncheon purposes, the sandwich will 
also be called upon to do its duty, and may be invitingly 
varied by means of white, rye, whole wheat, raisin, brown, 
and gluten breads. The fillings are also legion from which 
to choose. 

Too great importance cannot be attached to fresh fruit, 
which it is almost always easy to procure, for even in the 
winter months bananas, oranges, and certain kinds of apples 
are plentiful and cheap. 

Do not forget that a little "surprise" for each day's 
luncheon always delights a child, no matter of what it may 
consist. 

Fish Fancy 

Shred one cup of boiled codfish and let it stand for twenty 
minutes in French dressing, to which the juice of one large 
onion has been added; then drain and add one hard-boiled 
egg and three olives chopped fine. Add enough mayonnaise 
to make a spreading paste, use whole-wheat bread cut in 
triangles, and serve with a spray of watercress on top. 

Vegetable Macedoine 

Take one bottle of macedoine vegetables and boil in fair 
water until done enough to mash. Then add juice of 
an onion, a half saltspoon of pepper, a saltspoon of salt, and 
a rounding teaspoon of butter. When cool, add a gill of 
whipped cream and beat to a paste. Lay upon rye bread, 
cut in heart shape. 



592 ScKool LvincHeons 

Surprise Sandwich 

Put two cups of freshly stewed green peas through the 
pur^e sieve, add a teaspoon of butter, a half saltspoon of 
pepper and a saltspoon of salt, and a teaspoon of cream; 
let cool, then add two tablespoons of grated pineapple and 
if the mixture is not quite thin enough to spread, add a 
little cream. Use gluten bread cut in rounds. 

Ham and Chow-Chow 

Chop cold boiled ham very fine and chop one third as 
much chow-chow pickle; blend together and add a little 
of the mustard the pickles are put up in; use rye bread. 

Sweetbread and Chestnut Paste 

Parboil a pair of sweetbreads in slightly salted water. 
Cool, and chop fine, adding pepper and salt. Make from 
any reliable recipe a chestnut sauce. Add the sweetbreads 
and let cool in a small square mold. Slice thin and lay up 
with white bread, cut in rounds. 



SANDWICHES FOR ALL OCCASIONS 

Sandwich bread a day old, whole wheat bread, and rye 
loaf are the best for sandwich use. Fresh beaten butter with 
a little whipped cream added is the next consideration. If 
the sandwiches are to be kept, place them in a damp linen 
cloth in a cool place; if to be packed and carried, wrap 
them in wax paper and place them in a tin box. 

Be sure that all materials are at hand before beginning 
to make the sandwiches. Cutters for ordinary use are 
round, oblong, square, fish-tailed, and leaf-shaped. Those 
popular for card parties are in diamonds, hearts, clubs, and 
spades. Rolled and ribbon-tied sandwiches are also made. 

The bread-crusts, trimmings, and leftover odds and ends 
from sandwich making if thrown into a stewpan with a can 
of tomatoes and a bunch of savory herbs will make a good 
stock for sauces. 

Some of the new sandwiches have no cover. If they do, 
they often have a figure cut out of the cover and an olive, 
cherry, or a teaspoon of mayonnaise placed in the hole. 

If celery, lettuce, olives, peppers, or cress are to be used 
they should be allowed to chill before using. Tomatoes 
and fruit are also pared and chilled. 

Chicken livers, sweetbreads, chicken, or shellfish should 
be boiled and cooled before using. Mayonnaise dressing is 
best made heavy and must be cold. 

Now a word as to the use of brown bread. The slices 
should be cut thick and a loaf one day old is all right for 
ordinary use. Bread having a close grain and no raisins in 
it is the most satisfactory. 

Nuts should be blanched, and chopped or ground before 
38 593 



594 Sand-v^ricKes for all Occasions 

they are needed. Fish pastes can be made in the morning 
and are all the better for seasoning through. 

Tongue and Horseradish 

Mince finely one cup of fresh boiled tongue. Add to it a 
teaspoon of freshly grated horseradish, a few drops of tarra- 
gon, and enough whipped cream to make a spreading paste. 
Use whole wheat bread, cut in heart shape. 

Beef and Raisin Paste 

Take two slices of rare roast beef free from fiber and fat, 
seed four large raisins, three olives, one tiny stalk of celery, 
chop all together very fine. Add a few drops of onion juice, 
a saltspoon of pepper, a saltspoon of salt, and a teaspoon 
of English mustard. Mix all to a paste, spread lightly on 
buttered slice, lay over three or four sprays of watercress 
and the top slice. 

Spanish Paste 

Three olives, one red Spanish pepper, a chicken liver that 
has been boiled and cooled, a thin slice of boiled ham, minced 
all together very fine, and add one tablespoon of cream 
cheese, the juice of an onion, a half saltspoon of salt, and a 
saltspoon of pepper, and mix all into a smooth paste; if not 
quite moist enough add one spoon of whipped cream. Keep 
cool until ready for use, cut in diamond or triangle shapes, 
and garnish with cress. 

Oyster Sandwich 

Take a pint of oysters, drain, and let the liquor come to a 
boil. When it boils, drop in the oysters, let them stay until 
the beard curls, then remove from the fire and drain. Let 
the oysters get cold, but do not chill them. When ready 
to lay up the sandwiches, mix the oysters with heavy ma}"- 
onnaise and lay four oysters on the sandwich square. 



Sand-vvricKes for all Occasions 595 

After laying on the top slice cut it square and garnish with 
cross strips of red pepper. 

Tuna Sandwich 

Flake a small can of tunafish, add a tablespoon of 
chopped watercress, and allow it to marinate in French 
dressing, to which the juice of an onion has been added. 
Drain carefully and lay on thinly spread rye rounds. Gar- 
nish with thin strips of red pepper. 

Minced Cold Roast Beef 

Mince the beef, then season with pepper, salt, a teaspoon 
of mustard sauce, and a teaspoon of chopped tarragon 
leaves. Lay upon rye bread. 

Hot Biscuit Chicken Mayonnaise 

Chop the breast of a chicken quite fine with six olives, a 
strip of pepper, and a tiny stalk of celery. Add mayonnaise 
to make a good paste and season to taste. Before doing 
this, make tiny raised biscuit, tear them apart, spread, and 
add the filling. Serve hot on a lettuce leaf. Sweetbreads 
are delicious used in the same way. 

Chicken Liver Sandwich 

Take the livers, gizzards, and hearts of three chickens 
that have been boiled tender and chop them very fine, add 
one stalk of celery, one gherkin, a strip of green pepper, 
three olives, and two tablespoons of walnut meats, all 
chopped fine. Then moisten one package of cream cheese 
with cream, add a saltspoon of pepper, a half teaspoon of 
salt, a tablespoon of chutney syrup and work all smoothly 
together, using as much sweet cream as is needed to make 
a good spreading paste. Lay up the sandwiches on white 
bread. 



596 Sancl"wicKes for all Occasions 

Chicken and Cress 

Take the dark meat of the chicken left from the salad, 
chop fine, add a saltspoon of pepper, a half teaspoon of salt, 
two tablespoons of chopped watercress and the juice of an 
onion; mix well, and when ready to make the sandwiches 
use rye bread and add heavy mayonnaise to make a spread- 
ing paste of the mixture. 

Sausage Surprise 

Fry some good sausage until a delicate brown. Drain 
and chop fine; then mix with enough smooth, tart apple 
sauce to make a paste. Add a saltspoon of salt and a half 
saltspoon of pepper and lay up with thinly sliced bread. 
Garnish with cress. 

Baked Bean Sandwich 

Take one cup of baked beans, mash them fine, add a half 
saltspoon of pepper, a saltspoon of salt, a teaspoon of 
tarragon vinegar, and a tablespoon of ketchup. Spread 
lightly on white bread and serve garnished with a little roll 
of grilled bacon. It will be an improvement if the beans 
are put through a puree sieve, as all the skins will be re- 
moved before the condiments are added. 

Bavarian Sandwiches 

Boil one firm head of cauliflower until tender, though 
it should not be allowed in any way to fall apart. When 
cold slice it in thin slices, dredge with flour, and fry in 
very hot butter until a delicate brown; sprinkle with pep- 
per and salt and lay on blotting paper to drain. When 
cold spread on thin slices of brown bread with fresh butter 
and cut wedge-shaped. 



Sand'wricKes for all Occasions 597 

Minced Chicken and Mayonnaise 

Mince the chicken and add a tablespoon of chopped 
celery and enough mayonnaise to make a spreading mix- 
ture. Make sandwiches with white bread. 

Broiled Tomato Rounds 

Dip slices of fresh, firm tomatoes in eggs and crumbs 
and then brush with melted butter. Broil carefully and 
sandwich between rye bread rounds. 

Minced Tongue and Marmalade 

To a half a cup of minced tongue add two tablespoons 
of orange marmalade, mix to a paste, and spread on thin 
slices of graham bread. 

Codettes 

Take a cup of fresh cold boiled codfish, flake with a fork, 
season with a saltspoon of pepper, the same amount of salt, 
a teaspoon of lemon juice, and a little tomato ketchup; mix 
well and spread on a lettuce leaf between thinly buttered 
rye slices. 

Roquefort Ryes 

Take a quarter pound of fresh Roquefort cheese and 
add whipped cream enough to make a spreading paste, add a 
quarter saltspoon of red pepper and spread on thin buttered 
slices of rye bread, cut heart shape, and garnish with cress. 

SWEET SANDWICHES 
Marshmallow Sandwich 

To two tablespoons of orange marmalade add two table- 
spoons of finely chopped nuts and a cup of marshmallow 
whip. Cut brown bread rounds, lay on a leaf of white 



598 Sand-wicKes for all Occasions 

lettuce, and spread with the marshmallow mixture. These 
are very rich and will have to be eaten with a fork. 

Rose Jam Sandwiches 

Lay the sandwiches up with rye bread cut very thin and 
before spreading the jam cut the pieces petal shaped. Put 
the sandwiches on a lace doily and lay one pink rose on the 
side of the plate as a garnish. 

Frosted Sandwich 

Use white bread cut in oblong shapes spread with rhu- 
barb jelly. Frost the top of each with vanilla soft frosting 
and allow it to stand a few minutes and dry before serving; 
put a blanched almond on the top of each sandwich. 

Fresh fruit sandwiches are also newcomers and this is 
the way they are made (the proportions here given will 
make about two dozen little sandwiches each) : 

Apple Disks 

Slice and core a large Greening apple and fry in hot lard, 
drain on brown paper, sprinkle with a little salt, and lay on 
bread rounds while hot. 

Strawberry Sandwich 

Wash, hull, and cut fine one quart of firm but ripe straw- 
berries; sprinkle with powdered sugar and place in a little 
white enamel strainer over a bowl to chill until ready 
to make the sandwiches. Cut white bread thin, spread 
lightly, and after cutting it in any desired shape, fill with 
the berry mixture. Serve individually with a fork and as 
soon after they are made as possible, before the fruit has 
time to stain and soften the bread. Grated pineapple, 
seeded and chopped cherries, apricots, and peaches may all 
be served in this way. Rhubarb jelly, gooseberry jelly, 



Sand-wicKes for all Occasions 599 

red raspberry, blackberry, elderberry, mulberry, quince, 
green grape, mint, and rose may be combined with cream 
cheese or roquefort, with whole wheat bread. These are all 
delicious. 

Banana Sandwiches 

Slice the bananas thin and let them marinate in lemon 
juice, sugar, and a dash of nutmeg for half an hour, then 
drain and roll in chopped nuts and spread on whole wheat 
bread. 

Apple Butter and Cheese 

Mix with one package of cream cheese, two tablespoons 
of apple butter and a tablespoon of chopped nuts, add a 
little cream if the paste is not soft enough to spread, and 
lay upon gluten bread. 

Apple Sauce and Brown Bread 

Add to a little good apple sauce a tablespoon of chopped 
nuts, butter the bread rounds with fresh butter, and spread 
with the mixture. 

Pineapple and Cream Cheese 

Soften a package of cream cheese with a little sweet cream, 
add a saltspoon of salt, a tablespoon of sugar and two table- 
spoons of freshly grated pineapple. Use with gluten bread. 

Cocoanut Sandwich 

Take three tablespoons of grated cocoanut and add a tea- 
spoon of chopped red pepper to it with a teaspoon of chutney 
syrup and enough mayonnaise to make the whole into a 
spreading paste. Lay upon thinly sliced, unbuttered whole 
wheat rounds. 



6oo Sand"wicKes for all Occasions 

Prune Sandwich 

Stew a pound of very large prunes in the usual way, add- 
ing a very little sugar. When done drain and allow them 
to cool, remove the pits, chop them fine, and add one cup of 
finely chopped pecans. Roll fine one dozen dry macaroons 
and add them to the mixture with enough strained honey 
to make a spreading paste. Make the sandwiches with rye 
bread and cut them in horseshoe shape. 

Marron Sandwich Filling 

Drain and pass through a sieve a half pint of preserved 
marrons; add to them a cream cheese and enough sweet 
cream to make a spreading paste; add pepper, salt, and three 
tablespoons of pineapple grated, and a teaspoon of grated 
English cheese; spread on thin rye bread rounds and serve 
with afternoon tea or with a good fruit salad. 

Minnehaha Filling 

Chop fine one cup of large seeded raisins, three quarters 
of a cup of nut meats, and one little branch of preserved 
Canton ginger, using a little of the ginger syrup to bind 
the mixture. Spread on gluten bread, cut into diamonds, 
smear the top of each very lightly with a little of the ginger 
syrup, and dust with finely ground nut meats. 

Orange Sandwich Filling 

Add to one package of cream cheese a tablespoon of 
Roquefort cheese, a half teaspoon of salt, and a quarter 
saltspoon of red pepper. Then add enough sweet cream to 
make a paste and two tablespoons of orange marmalade 
which has the strips of peel through it. Use this with rye 
bread cut very thin and without butter. Cut in fancy 
shapes. 



Sand'wicKes for all Occasions 6oi 

Pear Sandwich 

Pare and remove the seed from one pear, mash the pulp 
smooth, rub in one teaspoon of olive oil, and add a saltspoon 
of salt, a half saltspoon of pepper, the juice of half a lemon, 
and a tablespoon of chutney syrup. Spread upon thin 
whole wheat bread, and cut into rounds. 

Mallow Whips 

Beat a half pint of marshmallow whip (which comes pre- 
pared) with a tablespoon each of chopped raisins, dates, and 
walnuts, and one spray of preserved ginger. Spread on 
thin rounds of white bread and garnish with little strips of 
candied lemon peel. 

Brandylines 

Take one brandied peach, chop, and drain; add a half 
cake of cream cheese and enough whipped cream to make a 
spreading paste. Lay on white thin rounds, and garnish 
with strips of angelica. 



CAMP COOKERY 

The main secrets of good meals in camp are to have a 
proper fire, good materials, and to understand the art of 
properly putting them together. The popularity of auto- 
mobile trekking has shown the itinerant camper the advis- 
ability of learning some of the camper's secrets especially 
the selection of a good camping ground, always near fresh 
water, and the correct making of the camp fire. 

The automobile has made picnicking the year around a 
possibility. It has taken the place of the horse and wagon 
as the motor boat has replaced the old rowboat, enabling 
the picnickers to reach their destination in half the time once 
consumed in the journey, and making possible many more 
comforts than ever before. 

The trekking picnickers of to-day take along an auto- 
mobile tent, which is quickly and easily pitched, as the car 
forms part of its supports ; it is so arranged that it forms 
a wind shield or an agreeable shade around the luncheon 
party. In this shelter a ground cloth is spread which, 
though light, is waterproof; on it the folding table is opened, 
around the table folding stools are set. 

The camp fire is built in front of the tent and this is the 
proper method to follow in building it: 

To Build the Camp Fire 

Take sound hard wood either green or dead, and split it 
into sticks of uniform thickness, say one and a quarter inch 
face. Lay down two bed sticks, cross these near the ends 
with two others, and so on up until you have a pen a foot 

602 



Camp CooKery 603 

high. Start a fire in the pen. Then cover it with a layer 
of parallel sticks laid an inch apart. Cross this with a 
similar layer at right angles, and so upward for another 
foot. The free draft will make a roaring fire and all will 
burn down to coals together. This method of fire building 
will give a bed of coals in a short time, which is what the 
short-time camper desires. 

Frying 

Do not try to fry over a flaming fire or a deep bed of 
coals. Rake a thin layer of coals out in front of the fire; 
or, for a quick meal, make your fire of small dry sticks, no 
thicker than your finger, then boil water for the coffee over 
the flame and do the frying over the quickly formed coals. 

Broiling 

Broil when there is not time to roast, before a bed of glow- 
ing coals; the gridiron with legs will raise the meat or 
fish the proper distance from the fire. 

Roasting 

Build a rather large fire of split hard wood against a 
high backlog or wall of rocks which will reflect the heat 
forward. Place the article to be roasted in the folding 
oven, close to the fire, and proceed as you would when bak- 
ing in an oven. Baste the meat frequently with a long- 
handled spoon, turning it once during the roasting. 

The camp fire, built in front of the tent, has every con- 
venience to aid in preparing the meal. There are the folding 
oven, the gridiron with folding legs, and the nested cooking 
utensils with adjustable handles. A small self-cooker, hold- 
ing one gallon of chicken fricassee, or any other hot meat 
dish, has its own place on the automobile, and when the 
picnic ground is reached there is nothing to do but serve 
the hot dish. 



6o4 Camp CooKery 

Inventors, too, have been busy, with the result that 
paper plates, cups, finger bowls and little baking cups, 
napkins, towels and dish cloths, tablecloths, wax and 
asbestos paper are all available for camp use, doing away 
with heavy dishes to wash and bother with. Thermos 
bottles, porcelain salad-carriers, cases with ice chests in 
them, and a dozen and one other conveniences now are 
offered that make the outing a picnic in every sense of 
the word. 

Folding canvas pails are used for carrying water, and a 
couple of light-weight sleeping bags, that roll tightly and 
need but little room, are cozy for an outdoor nap, with 
blankets and air pillows, especially if children are in the 
party. Altogether, with three or four seven-passenger 
machines, all loaded with congenial friends and plenty 
of good eatables, the winter trekking party is a very 
jolly affair. 

Concentrated soups are good to take along, if the weather 
is cold, for one package makes ten plates with the addition 
of the necessary water. 

Bouillon may be taken in jars, made rich enough to jell 
or thin enough to use hot or cold. 

Sandwiches and salads, and all the other picnic good 
things, are prepared at home and packed in hampers. The 
foods to be cooked over the camp fire are packed in a ham- 
per by themselves; they may include squabs, all trussed and 
ready for the broiler; creamed oysters, ready to reheat 
when the p4te shells have been warmed; potatoes to bake, 
tiny mince pies to be heated, individual meat or game pies, 
and any other good thing the outdoor hostess thinks her 
guests may enjoy. She can depend upon the thermos 
bottles to carry all the hot drinks, including the bouillon. 

Sandwich fillings for outdoor eating are not as dainty, 
perhaps, as those for indoor functions, for the fresh air 
makes one too hungry to be particular. Here are a few 
tried and trusty ones that everyone will enjoy, and that in 
the open are most appetizing. 



Camp CooKery 605 

Onion Filling 

Slice very thinly the needed amount of Spanish onions, 
dust them with salt, pepper, and a few drops of lemon juice. 
Cut the crusts from square slices of whole wheat bread and 
smear very thinly with anchovy paste, then lay on the 
onion. In making these sandwiches, pdte de foie gras may 
be used instead of the anchovy paste if desired. 

Savory Filling 

Take one cream cheese and add to it a chicken liver that 
has been boiled and chopped, a teaspoon of chopped pecan 
nuts, the juice of an onion, a small piece of celery chopped 
very fine, with a strip of green pepper and a gherkin pickle. 
Mold to a smooth paste, adding a teaspoon of Worcestershire 
sauce and one of chutney syrup. Serve on wheat bread 
rounds. 

Chestnut Filling 

Boil until tender, after peeling and blanching, a quart of 
chestnuts; mash them and add a lump of butter, a dash of 
nutmeg, a pinch of salt, and enough honey to make a 
spreading paste. Serve on whole wheat bread squares. 

Liver Savory Filling 

Take a half pound of the liver sausage (leberwurst) , 
remove it from its casing, and add to it the juice of an 
onion, a half saltspoon of salt, a saltspoon of pepper and a 
tablespoon of Worcestershire sauce. Grate in one onion 
and work the mixture to a smooth paste. Serve on rye 
bread rounds. 

Cheese and Chive Filling 

Take a cream cheese and work to a smooth paste, with a 
little sweet cream; add a saltspoon each of pepper and salt, 



6o6 Oamp CooKery 

the juice of a small onion, and a tablespoon of chopped 
chives. Serve on slices of brown bread. 

Fried Apple Filling 

Slice thickly and core six tart apples. Fry the slices in 
hot fat to a delicate brown and lay the hot slices on whole 
wheat bread rounds, that have been lightly spread with an- 
chovy paste, dust with pepper and salt, and a pinch of sugar. 

Sausage and Apple Filling 

Take some well seasoned sausage meat and mold it into 
pats, rather thin, and the size of the bread rounds; fry a 
delicate brown and drain. When cool, lightly dip in thick 
apple sauce and serve as sandwiches. 

Cranberry jam, grapefruit marmalade, and tomato jelly 
with mayonnaise are also good for fillings in hearty out- 
door sandwiches. 

Sandwiches keep much better if wrapped before putting 
into the hamper in linen cloths that have been wrung out of 
cold water. Cutting them in fancy shapes is hardly advis- 
able, as they do not pack so well, and if they are left square 
with the crusts cut off they are just as dainty for the outdoor 
appetites. 

The meat pies may be carried in the pans they are baked 
in, placing them on sheets of cardboard with a sheet between 
each layer of the pies; then do them up in brown paper. 
They make a very pleasing change, which a trial will convince 
the picnicker of. 

Fruit pies may be made and carried in the same way, 
providing the juice is thick enough to jell. Small lemon 
pies are especially good made with a latticed crust instead 
of a meringue so that they carry well. 

Layer cakes are hard to manage, but pound and other 
slicing cakes are all right, fruit tarts can be managed by 



Gamp CooKery 607 

packing them in layers in a deep box and placing a sheet of 
cardboard between each layer. 

Besides the deviled crabs, which are always good, there 
are the lobster ramekins, that are quite new, and they may 
be packed like the tarts, with pasteboard between each 
layer. If one chances to have a guest or two who are on 
the meatless diet it is not a bad idea to have a cold nut 
loaf to offer them with their bread and butter; also cheese, 
vegetable, and fruit sandwiches, which they can enjoy freely. 

As salads are so much nicer made fresh, it is a good idea 
to make and bottle the kind of dressing that is to be used, 
and after washing the lettuces put them into a linen salad bag 
and lay them against the ice; the meat, fish, or vegetables 
may be prepared with the celery chopped and put into the 
salad carrier. It will take but a few minutes to finish the 
salad on arrival at the picnic ground. If the carrier is 
tightly covered the salad material will not dry out. Eggs 
that are cold boiled for the salad garnish should be wrapped 
in wax paper and put on top of the salad until it is time to 
use them. Eggs that are deviled should be wrapped in wax 
paper and dropped into an ordinary egg box with the 
compartments, so they will carry in perfect condition. 

If the juice of three or four dozen lemons is squeezed 
and strained into a bottle, then put in the hamper next 
the ice, and three pounds of sugar is melted in one pint of 
boiling water and allowed to cool, then put into another 
bottle, lemonade will be a simple matter to make and can be 
made in any quantity as it is needed. 



CASSEROLE COOKERY 

A KNOWLEDGE of casserole cookery will be found quite 
valuable, economically speaking, for the woman who cooks 
for a small family. It is often difficult to market wisely and 
well for two people so as not to have food left over each day. 
But the casserole dish, in many instances, will make yes- 
terday's extravagance to-day's economy, thus allowing a 
greater variety of choice in foods without danger of waste. 

The casserole has one advantage over other modes of 
cooking in that it cooks slowly and thoroughly the foods 
that require such cooking without making them dry and 
tasteless. The old-fashioned pipkin, the earthen dish with 
a cover used on top of the stove, and the old pot-roast 
pots with grating, in the bottoms, were the forerunners of the 
casserole. 

Almost any kind of food, from soup to preserves, may be 
cooked in the casserole, but for braising meat, stewing, 
pot-roasting, and the stewing of fruit or vegetables they 
are especially recommended. A medium and slowly rising 
oven is right for casserole cooking, with the steady heat 
kept at 212° F. 

In using recipes for various dishes to be cooked in the 
usual ways, but which one may wish to try in the casserole, 
double the cooking time given. For instance, a stew that 
calls for one hour cooking in the usual way should be given 
two hours to cook in the casserole ; or meat pie that calls for 
thirty minutes cooking should be cooked an hour. Another 
point to remember in using the covered casserole is that 
only enough liquid, sauce, stock, cream, or whatever liquid 
the recipe calls for, should be used to cover the solid food 

608 



Casserole CooKery 609 

of which the dish is composed. The liquid does not cook 
away as in other methods of cooking; consequently, if too 
much is used, when the juices cook from the solid food, the 
entire dish becomes too wet, and is unattractive. 

If a sauce requires thickening, before sending the casserole 
to table remove the cover and stir in the thickening evenly ; 
replace the cover and allow the cooking to go on for a few 
minutes more before serving. If the family dinner hour is 
likely to be delayed , there is no food which keeps in better 
condition for a greater length of time than that cooked 
in the casserole. 

The earthenware casserole dishes are good to use in cook- 
ing on top of the stove foods that are to be served in other 
dishes, or for preserving. It is always wise to use an asbes- 
tos mat under the casserole when cooking on a gas or elec- 
tric stove, and to set it away from the hottest part of a coal 
range. For the oven there are the pretty, covered glazed 
casseroles, green or brown on the outside and white within, 
and those which are still newer made of heavy glass. The 
glass dishes hold a more intense heat than the others and 
one may watch the process of the cooking without raising 
the lid. Silver and nickel insets come for dishes of all sizes. 

If one is going in for this method of cooking seriously 
dishes of several sizes will be required, including one large 
enough to boil fish, chicken, or ham. As the dishes are 
rather expensive they should be well cared for. When new, 
fill them with water and let it slowly come to boiling point, 
remain at boiling point for an hour, then allow it to slowly 
cool. This prepares the dish for use and prevents cracking. 
Wash the dishes in warm soapsuds, but never scrape or 
scratch them so as to mar the glaze. 

Though there are a number of recipes scattered through 
this book that are suitable for casserole cookery, especially 
in stewed and creamed foods, the following are some par- 
ticularly adapted to this use. Unused, tough, or rag ends 
of steak, portions of braised or fried cutlets, pieces of roast 
beef or lamb, chops or chicken, boiled or broiled fish, vege- 
39 



6io Casserole CooKery 

tables or macaroni combinations may all be converted into 
excellent casserole dishes with but little time and trouble 
after one has learned how. 

Guinea Fowl in Casserole 

Clean and truss the fowl in the usual way for boiling. Let 
it boil in a covered casserole until tender, adding a bud of 
garlic, a bay leaf, three cloves, and a celery stalk to the 
water. When done take up the fowl, and when slightly cool 
joint it and arrange it in a well buttered casserole dish. 
Heap in the center two cups of potato balls cut with a cutter 
and arrange a border of thinly sliced carrots and peas around 
the edge ; make a rich brown gravy, using a little of the stock 
the fowl was boiled in, about a cup of it, with a cup of 
strained tomato juice and the juice of an onion. Season 
well and thicken, with a little browned flour creamed with 
butter, to the consistency of cold honey, then turn it over 
the fowl. Cover and cook from one and a half hours to two 
hours in a medium oven. Fresh chicken may be cooked in 
the same way only using a cream sauce, or cold fried, 
broiled, or boiled chicken that may be at hand from the day 
before can be used up in this way. 

Beefsteak Rolls 

In buying a large steak, the best cut of sirloin, have the 
butcher cut the tender part of the steak ready for broiling 
and the flank end let him split with a sharp knife into two 
thin slices. Lay the broiling steak away for next day, and 
take the flaps and lay them out on a platter. Make a good 
savory stuffing after any of the recipes given under that 
heading. Spread the flaps lightly with butter, then a layer 
of the stuffing, and roll them pinning them with wooden 
toothpicks or tying them with kitchen tape. Cut them in 
half to form four little rolls and lay them in a buttered 
casserole. Have ready two cups of string beans that have 
been carefully strung and boiled tender, drain and lay them 



Casserole CooKery 6ii 

in the center of the dish, turn over all a good, smooth, well 
seasoned tomato sauce, and cook for an hour or a little longer. 
If it has seemed best to broil all the steak, then what remains 
over may be used in the same way, but to have it tender it 
will have to be cooked a little while longer. If one likes 
them, six kidneys may be boiled until tender, throwing off the 
water seven times during the boiling, and be added to the 
sauce. 

Cabbage Surprise 

Take one small firm cabbage, cut out the heart, strip apart 
the leaves and wash them carefully. Chop coarsely and put 
in a buttered casserole. Turn over the cabbage two cups 
of rich milk, dust it with pepper and salt and a teaspoon 
of sugar, cover, and cook for two hours. Take any cold 
cooked vegetables that are at hand and chop them, mix a 
heaping teaspoon of cornstarch in a little cream, open the 
casserole, arrange the chopped vegetables as a border, add 
the thickening, and cook a half hour longer, then serve. 

Fish Pudding 

Take cold boiled cod, halibut, or tilefish left from a boiled 
fish dinner, free it from skin and bone, then flake it with 
a silver fork. Put a layer of the fish in a buttered casserole 
dish, then a layer of finely minced onion, dry crumbs, and 
chopped cold boiled potato, dust with pepper and salt, dot 
with lumps of butter, then add another layer of fish, and so 
on until it is all used. Add one cup of cream, two table- 
spoons of melted butter, and a teaspoon of sugar. Cover 
and cook in medium oven an hour and a half; the last 
fifteen minutes remove the cover to let it brown lightly 
on top. Oysters or clams are good cooked in this way. Or 
fish that is left or shell food either may be put into a hot New- 
burg sauce, after being flaked, and then turned into a cas- 
serole dish to cook for a half hour, either of which makes an 
excellent dish. Serve with grilled potatoes and peas. 



6i2 Casserole CooKery 

Veal Ragout 

This is a cheap and good dish as well. Take six veal 
chops (loin not rib) and trim them from the bones (which 
may be added to the stock pot) . Dip the pieces of meat into 
flour and brown them quickly in hot butter. Put the 
meat into the casserole dish and after adding a cup of stock 
to the butter the meat was fried in, seasoning and thicken- 
ing it, turn it over the meat. Put six boiled artichokes in the 
center and cook in the oven one hour. 

Hamburger Steak 

For two people, have a pound of top round steak chopped 
fine and a wee bit of fat chopped with it. Pare one large 
Spanish onion or two white onions, then chop them fine 
and saut6 them in butter until they are done and are a 
delicate brown. Spread part of the onion on the bottom of 
a small casserole dish, then lay on the steaks, spreading the 
rest of the onions on top with the butter they were cooked 
in. Dust with pepper and salt, then pour over all a cup of 
rich stock, cover, and cook one hour. If desired the steak 
may be surrounded with potato balls. 

Roast Beef Rosette 

To use up the remaining part of a rolled roast of beef, if 
one does not care for it cold, slice with a sharp knife as many 
perfect slices as possible, and trim them nicely. Then take 
all the scraps and chop them very fine, adding an onion and 
a half of a red pepper, a saltspoon of pepper and a half tea- 
spoon of salt, a half cup of bread crumbs, a half teaspoon of 
powdered herbs, and two teaspoons of chutney syrup. Mix 
the ingredients and after adding a tablespoon of melted 
butter add the stiffly beaten white of one egg. Spread 
the stuffing between each slice of meat, piling them sand- 
wich fashion in a buttered casserole. Take a large can of 
bvitton mushrooms, drain them, and lay them around the 



Casserole CooKery 613 

edge with a dozen little potato balls and turn over all a cup 
and a half of brown sauce, the recipe for which will be found 
with the gravies and sauces. Cover and bake in a medium 
oven for an hour and a half. This will be sufficient for four 
persons if there have been eight perfect slices of meat, if less 
then there will be enough for three. Cold leg of lamb may 
be used up in the same way, using a white sauce instead of 
the brown sauce. Again roast veal may be fixed in this way, 
using a tomato sauce and a ring of boiled rice instead of the 
mushrooms. 

Baked Calf's Liver 

Buy one pound of milk liver and instead of having it 
sliced have it split nearly through. Wash it, lard the thick 
part with bacon, and fill the opening with a savory stuffing. 
Lay in a buttered casserole, garnish the top with sliced 
hard-boiled eggs and sliced truffles, dust with pepper and 
salt, and turn over a half gill of melted butter, a small 
tumbler of melted currant jelly, and a wineglass of madeira 
wine. Cover and cook an hour and a half in a medium 
oven. This is an especially savory dish for three people 
and not expensive though it is a little troublesome to 
make. 



INDEX 



Aguacate, Cream Soup, 72 

Escalloped, 270 
Alligator Pear, Canape, 30 
Escalloped, 270 
Relish, 34 
Soup, 83 

Cream, 72, 84 
Almond, Balls, 91 
Cake, 458 
Green, and Cantaloupe Salad, 

351 
Green, and Mirabelle Salad, 

353 

Icmg, 465 

Milk, 522 

Pudding, 387 

Rolls, 504 

Sauce, 486 

Soup, 83 
Ambrosia Sauce, 359 
Anchovy, Canape, 31 

Sauce, 238 
Angel Cake, 458 
Apple, Baked, Pudding, 415 

Boiled, 270 

Cake, 470 

Cheesecake, 470 

Custard, 574 

Dumpling, 427 

Float, 576 

Ginger, 434 

Meringues, 434 

Paste, 502 

Peppers, 292 

Pie, 444, 445, 448 

Snow, 434 

Soup, 84, 85 

Strudel, 427 

Tapioca, 575 

Trifle, 413 

and Liver Rounds, 159 
Apricot, Cream, 483 

Flip, 522 



Frozen, 484 

Jelly, 430, 537 

Parfait, 493 

Pie, 445 

Poached, 427 

Pudding, 415 

Shortcake, 425 
Arrowroot Gruel, 556 
Artichokes, Fileted, 269 

Jerusalem, a la Tarragon, 270 
Salad, 343 
Soup, 64 

Relish, 36 
Asparagus, au Gratin, 272 

Baked, with Lettuce, 271 

Boiled, 270 

Canap^, 33 

Fried, 272 

in Aspic, 312 

Jelly, 540 

Pudding, 558 

Pur^e, 76 

Sauce, 239 

Souffle, 271 

Soup, 64, 71 

and Lamb's Tongue Salad, 

344 
Aspic Jelly, 257 

for Decoration, 258 
Austrian Apple Cakes, 470 
Strudel, 427 
Pancakes, 408 



B 



Bachelor's Omelet, 371 

Pudding, 415 
Baked Beans, New England, 273 
Salad, 336 
with Honey, 159 
Pudding (Indian Suet), 422 
Soup, 44 
Baking Powder Dumplings, 90 
Banana, Baked, 272 



615 



6i6 



Index 



Banana — Continued 
Boats, 488 
Fried, 272 
Grilled, 207 
Mincemeat, 446 
Omelet, 377, 435 
Pat^, 166 
Peppers, 293 
Pickle, 546 

Pie, 445 

Popovers, 396 

Salad, 352 

Shortcake, 424 

Souffle, 435 

Trifle, 413 

Waffle, 404 

and Damson Tart, 428 

and French Sausage Cro- 
quette, 156 
Barbe de Capucin (Chicory Salad), 

332 
Barberry Salad, 352 
Barley Gruel, 559 

Soup, 79 
Bass, Cold Filet of, 126 
Beans, Baked, New England, 273 
Salad, 336 
with Honey, 159 

Black, 275 
Beaten Biscuit, 402 
Bechamel Sauce, 236 
Beef, Notes on, 177 

a la Mode, 182 

Boiled, 179 

Bouillon, 42 

Broth, 61 

Brown Stew, 184 

" Bubble and Squeak," 183 

Casserole Roast, 183 

Chipped, 157 

Corned, 180 

Croquettes, 185 

Filet Marine, 183 

Fritters, 171 

Hash, 181 

Heart, 185 

Hungarian Goulash, 189 

Jelly, 311 

Kidney Stew, 183 

Larding, 178 

Liver, 186 

Loaf, 181 

Olives, 182 

Pot Roast, 179 

Roast, 179, 612 

Sour Roast, 180 



Steak, Notes on, 187 
a la Creole, 188 
Chowder, 58 
en Casserole, 189 
Hamburger, 186 
Pie, 186 
Rolls, 510 
Swiss, 186 

and Mushrooms, 189 
Tea, 81 

Tongue, 185, 193 
Beets, Boiled, 275 
Greens, 283 
Jellied, 311 
Roasted, 275 
Salad, 334 
Soups, 77, 82 
Beverages, 508-524 
Bird's Nest Salad, 339 

Soup, 92 
Biscuit Glace, 479, 577 
Biscuits, 390 
Dainty, 397 
Hot Raised, 394 
Maryland Beaten, 402 
Quick, 396 
Bisque, 53-54. 74, 76 
Black Beans, 275 
Blackberry Beaumont, 435 
Cordial, 515 
Jelly Pie, 446 
Roly Poly, 416 
Blueberry Cake, 459 

Pie, 447, 533 

Shortcake, 426 
Bluefish, Baked, 115 

Broiled, 116 

Curried, 123 
Boiled Custard, 409 

Dressing, 357 

Icing, 466 
Bombay Sauce, 239 

Toast, 120 
Bonbon Salad, 340 
Bortsch (Russian Soup), 70 
Boston Pudding, 416 
Bouillabaisse (Soup), 51 
Bouillon, 42, 52, 59 
Brazil Nut Butter, 384 

Soup, 86 
Bread, Notes on Making, 389- 

392 

Brown, Fingers, 35 
Ice Cream, 481 
Pudding, 416 
Steamed, 392 



Index 



617 



Bread — Continued 
Cakes, 405 
Egg Puffs, 395 
Fried, 394 
Graham, 392 
Oatmeal, 392 
Pulled, 393 
Quick, 393 
Rusk, 395 

Rye, 393 

Soup, 80 

Sticks, 393 
Breadfruit Cake (Dutch), 460 
Broiling in Camp, 503 
Broth, Clam, 52, 80, 81, 556 

Royale, 61 

Scotch Mutton, 48, 556 
Brown Betty Pudding, 582 

Flour, to, 260 

Mushroom Sauce, 244 

Onion Sauce, 243 

Sauce or Gravy, 235 
Brussels Sprouts, 275 
Buckwheat Cakes, 405 
Buffet Menus (Children), 586 
Bulgarian Chops, 194 
Buns, Hot Cross, 399 

Sweet Potato, 396 
Burgundy Cream, 431 
Burnt Onions for Gravies, 238 
Butter, Notes on, 375 

Drawn, Sauce, 238 

Fairy, 375 

Maltre d'H6tel, 242 
Buttered Spaghetti, 321 
Butterscotch, 500 

Pie, 446 



Cabbage, Baked and Boiled, 276 

Red, 277 

Salad, 343 

Slaw, 277 

Soup, 73 

Stuffed, 276 

Surprise, 611 
Caf6 au Lait, 508 

Noir, 508 

Parfait, 493 
Cake, 455-464 

for Children, 578 

Fillings, 464-466 

Frosting and Icing, 464 

Layer, 461-464 

Making, 455 



Cakes, Fish, 96, 99, 102 

Oat, 401 

Potato, 296 

Scotch, 401 

Small, 466-473 

Wheat, 404 
Calf's Foot, Jelly, 310 
Stewed, 558 

Head, 191, 195 

Liver, 152, 171, 191, 194, 613 

Tongue, 157 
Camembert Toast, 379 
Camp Conveniences, 603 

Cookery, 602 

Fire, 602 
Camping, What Foods to Take, 

606 
Canapes, Notes on, and Recipes, 

27 
Canary Pudding, 416 
Candy, Notes on Making, 499 
Canned Salad, Making, 341 
Canning, Dry Pack, 526 
Cantaloupe, 349, 351, 440 
Caper Sauce, 239 
Capons, 218 
Caramel Ice Cream, 480 

Sauce, 424 
Cardoon Salad, 345 
Carrots, 221, 244, 278, 311, 539 
Carving, 173 
Casaba Melon, 350, 440 
Casserole Cookery, 608 
Cauliflower, 234, 278, 312, 335, 

545 
Caviar, 29, 31, 32, 35 
Celeriac, 279 
Celery, 29, 73, 232, 240, 279, 353, 

551 
Cereals, 314-318 

Soups, 77 
Champagne, 239, 511, 514, 541 
Chanticleer Cocktail, 510 
Chantilly Soup, 66 
Chapon for Salad Bowl, 325 
Cheese, Notes on, 376-381 

Apple Cake, 470 

Cream, 337 

Omelet, 370 

and Rice Custard, 410 

Roquefort and Celery Can- 
ape, 29 

Salads, 337-341. 347 
Cherries, 82, 353, 483, 494, 513, 

519, 535. 544 
Cherry Pie, 447, 449, 451 



6i8 



Index 



Chestnut (Marrons), 30, 85, 86, 

154, 231, 232, 245, 302, 351, 

378, 385, 387, 39«, 430, 486, 

487, 494, 496, 535, 59-2 
Chicken, Adrienne, 156 

a la King, 215 

a la Mt. Vernon, 211 

k la Papigo, 216 

au Gratin, 213 

Bouillon, 59 

broiled, 213 

with Jellied Giblets, 217 

Broth, 556 

Capons, 218 

Chop Suey, 213 

Compote, 215 

en Casserole, 214 

Essence of, Madrilainc in 
Jelly, 81 

Fowl Pilau, 212 

Fricassee of Spring, 215 

Giblet Soup, 60 

How to Stuff, 209 

Jelly, 309 

Liver Canape, 33 

Liver Saute, 217 

Madrilaine, 214 

Maryland Fried, 211 

Mock, Cutlets, 151 

Pie, 216 

Poulet a la Marengo, 212 

Salad with Bottle Breast of, 

344 
Jellied, 346 
Pie, 330 
Puffs, 332 
Sausage, 217 
Shortcake, 213 
Chicory (Barbe de Capucin), 

332 
Children's Buffet Menu, 586 
Cakes, 578 
Desserts, 574 
Diets, 565 

Dinner Refreshments, 587 
Dishes for Them to Make, 

581 
Favorite Dishes of, 571 
General Feeding, 570 
Ice Creams, 577 
Parties, 584 
Party Menus, 585 
Pudding, 577 
School Luncheons, 589 
Chile-Con-Carne, 61 
Chili Sauce, 547 



Vinegar, 551 
Chinatown, Markets of, 312 
Chinese Fish, 159 

Salad, 335 

Sauce, 244 
Chocolate, Notes on, 509 

Cake (Solid), 456 

Cream Drops, 502 

Ice Cream, 479 

Layer Cake Filling, 464 

Punch (Hot), 518 

Sauce, 487 

Schnutten, 462 
Chop Suey, Chicken, 213 
Chops, Broiled, and Potatoes, 
581 

Sauce for, 247 
Chow-Chow, 592 

Tomato, 547 
Chowder, 54, 55, 56, 57, 58 
Christmas Eggnog, 519 
Chutney, Tomato, 545 
Cider, Hot Spiced, 515 

Mulled, 515 
Cinnamon Toast, 573 
Clams, Notes on, 144 

Baked, 144 

Bouillon, 52-81 

Broth, 52, 80, 556 

Canape, 28 

Curried, 145 

Escalloped, 145 

Fritters, 169 

Iced Broth, 81 

New England Chowder, 56 

Pie, 145 

Soup, 51 
Claret Cup, 514 
Coal, Cooking by, 3 
Cocktails, 509, 513 

Notes on, 509 

of Fruit, 513 
Cocoa, Notes on, 509 
Cocoanut Cake, 463 

Drops, 468 

Pie, 447 

Soup, 85 

Hindustani, 85 
Codfish, au Gratin, 108 

Broiled, 106 

Creamed, on Toast, 109 

Croquettes, 108 

Curried, 107 

Escalloped, no 

Fresh, 558 

in Balls, 106 



Index 



619 



Codfish — Continued 

Ramekins, no 
Jellied, in 
Mock Scallops, in 
Peppers, 108 
Pie, 107 

Pineapple en Casserole, 109 
Tongues Creamed, 109 

and Lobster en Casserole, 

132 
Pkt6, 162 
Salad, 326 
Turbot, no 
Coffee, Nutritious, 560 
Cold Soups, 80 
Colecannon, 277 
Company Luncheon Dish, a, 

151 

Consomm^, 43 

Cookery, en Casserole, 608 

Vegetable, 265-269 
Cookies, 466, 470 

Favorite, 579 

Seed, 579 

Soft Molasses, 474 
Cooking by Coal, 3 
Gas, 3 

Electricity, 4, 5 
while Camping, 602 
Coquelle Canap6, 27 
Com, au gratin, 280 

Bread, 400 

Chowder, 58 

Croquettes, 279 

Fritters, 280 

Green, on Cob, to Boil, 279 

Pone, 396 

Pur^e, 72 

Roast, on Cob, 279 

Salad, Hot, Canned, 343 

Soup from Fresh, 65 

to Pop in Oil, 501 
Corned Beef, 180 
Commeal Gruel, 556, 560 

Mush, 315 
Crabs, Notes on Boiling, 134 

deviled, 135 

Gumbo, 136 

Meat au Gratin, 136 

Meat in Ramekins, 135 

Meat Puffs, 135 

Meat Soup, 50 

Sauce, 240 

Soft Shelled, 136 

Italian Way, 137 

Stuffed, 134 



Tartlet, 135 

and Fresh Olive Salad, 329 
Cracker Dumplings, 88 
Cranberry Sauce, 244 

Salad, 334 
Crawfish, Notes on, 137 
Cream, 374 

Cheese, to Make, 377 

and Chestnut Purde, 378 
with Macedoine Vege- 
tables, S37 
Piquant, 378 

Chocolate, 503 

Dressing, Sweet, 357 

Frozen, 490 

Giblet Sauce, 244 

Sauce, 236 

French, 237 

Soup, 71 

Toast, 573 
Creme de Menthe Jelly, 541 
Creole Gumbo, 65 
Cress Vinegar, 551 
Crones, Notes on, 309 
Croutons, 88 
Crullers, 472, 579 
Crust, Pie, 443 
Cucumbers, a la Poulette, 28 1 

Aspic, 346 

Canap^, 32 

Deviled, 281 

Fried, 281 

Jelly, 541 

Puree, 72 

Sauce, 240 

Soup, 65 

Stuffed, 280 

Tile in, Jelly, 124 

and Liver Pat6, 166 

and Nut Salad, 347 

and Onion Jelly, 312 
Curry Powder, 259 
Custards, 409 

Baked, 410 

Boiled, 409 

French Frozen, 480 

Lemon Frozen, 412 

Peach Cobbler, 411 

Pie, 447 

Pie, Frosted, 448 

Rhubarb Fool, 412 

Syllabub, 411 

Vermicelli, 322 
Cut Glass, care of, 17 
Cutlet, en Casserole, 195 

Stewed, 558 



620 



Index 



D 



Dairy Products, 361 
Damson Plum Pie, 448 

Tart, 428 
Dandelion, 282 

Puree, 74 
Dasheens, Notes on, 308 
Date, Custard, Frozen, 482 

Dainty, 436 

Jellied, 431 

Souffle, 436 
Dead Cakes, 471 
Delicacies for the Table, 254- 

264 
Desserts, 409 

for Children, 574 

of Fruit, 434-439 

Jelly, 430-434 
Deviled Salad Balls, 338 
Devonshire Cream, 374 

Junket, 374 
Diet for Children, 565 
Diets for the Rheumatic, 561 
Dinner Refreshments (Children), 

587 
Dishes for Children to Make, 581 
Dormers, 198 
Doughnuts, 472, 473 
Drawn Butter Sauce, 238 
Dressing for Salads, 354-360 

Fruit Salad, 357 
Dried Fruit Pies, 448 
Drinks, Nourishing, 558 

to be Served on the Porch, 
520 
Dry Pack Canning, 526 
Duchess Sauce, 423 
Ducks, Notes on Roast, 220 

and Carrots, 221 

Jiblet Soup, 60 

and Orange Salad, 331 

Pat^, 164 
Dumplings, Apple, 427 

Austrian Potato, 88 

Baking Powder, 90 

Coronte, 89 

Cracker, 88 

Farina, 316 

German Liver, 89 

Potato, 90 

Soup, 89 

Stew, 89 

Suet, 91 
Dutch Breadfruit Cake, 460 

Croquettes, 151 



Salad, 347 
Sauce, 241 



E 



Eels, Fried, 116 

Cold Jellied, 127 

Soup, 48 
Eggplant, to fry, 282 

au Gratin, 283 

Bombay, 282 

Turkish, 283 
Eggs, Notes on, 361 

American, 365 

au Miroir, 365 

Baked, 363 

Chinese, 365 

French, 366 

German, 366 

Hungarian, 366 

Irish, 366 

Italian, 366 

Mignon, 363 

New Salad, 340 

Nicoise, 367 

Nog, Christmas, 519 

Norwegian, 367 

Omelets, 368 

Poached, a la Reine, 167 
with cream sauce, 362 

Puffs, 395 

Rolls, 396 

Russian, 367 

Salads, 337-341 

Sauce, 241 

Scotch, 367 

Scotch Woodcock, 364 

Scrambled with Sardines, 

364 

Shirred with ham, 364 

Turkish, 367 

Vermicelli, 365 

Wine, 559 

with Crayfish, 364 

with Tomatoes, 363 
Egyptian Meat Pie, 194 
Electricity, Cooking by, 4 
En Casserole, 608 
Endive, 282 

Roquefort Cheese Salad, 338 

Stuffed Salad, 333 
English Brown Sauce or Gravy, 

235 
Chowder, 57 
Mustard, 360 



Index 



621 



English Brown Sauce — Continued 

Mutton Chop, 199 

Trifles, 412 
Entries, 150-172 

Notes on, 150 
Escarole, Panned, 282 
Essences for Meat and Game, 

249 
Everton Toffee, 500 



F 



Fairy Butter, 375 
Fanchonettes, 429 
Fancy Individual Small Cakes, 

470 
Farina Dumplings, 316 
Farmer's Fruit Cake, 475 
Feeding the Child, 568 
Fennel Jelly, 540 

Seed Salad, 336 
Fenuctii Salad, 336 
Fig Cream, 502 

in Honey, 436 

Jam, 534 

Pudding, 417 

Salad, 353 

Tomato (Sweet Preserve), 

549 
Filet Marino, 183 
Filet of Sole, 112 
FilHngs for Cake, 464-466 

for Chocolate Cake, 464 

for Minnehaha Cake, 465 

tor Sandwiches, 594-601 
Finnan Haddie a la King, 118 
Baked, 118 
Canape, 34 
Fireless Cookers, 4-5 
Fish, Cakes, 95, 99 

Chinese, 159 

Chowder, 56 

Cookery, 95 

Dish, a Good Cold, 126 

Fancy, 591 

Forcemeat, 119 

Jellies to be Served with, 539- 
542 

Notes on, 93 

Pudding en Casserole, 611 

Salads, 325-329 

Sauces, 238 

Shell, 128 

Soups, 48 

to Bake, 94 



to Boil, 94 

and Oyster Pie, 57 

and Pineapple Canape, 29 
Fisherman's Punch, 518 
Flannel Cakes, 404 
Floating Island, Modern, 410 

Old Fashioned, 410 
Flounder a la Italienne, iii 

a la Turque, 112 

Chinese Fish, 159 

Filet of Sole, 112 

Filet of Sole in Cases, 113 

Stuffed or Rolled, 113 
Flour, to Brown, 260 
Flowers of Pastry, 444 
Foamy Sauce, 423 
Food Garnishes and Their Mak- 
ing, 250-253 
Forcemeat Ball, 91 

Stuffing, 231 
Fowls, how to Bone, 225 

how to Stuff, 209 

Pilau, 212 
Prangipane Tart, 428 
French Dressing, Heavy, 354 

with Vegetable or Pea- 
nut Oil, 354 

Fondant or Cream, 505 

Frozen Custard, 480 

Mustard Sauce, 359 

Pancakes, 406 

Waffles, 403 

White Sauce or Bechamel, 
236 
Fresh Fish, 93 

Olive Salad, 339 
Fried Salad, 335 
Fries, Lamb, 201 
Frijoles, Mexican, 275 
Fritters, Notes on, 167 

Rice, 318 

Sweet, 428-430 

Walnut, 387 
Frogs' Legs Creamed, 119 

Currant Sauce, 158 
Fried, 118 
Salad, 327 
Frosted Holly Leaves, 261 
Frozen Apricots, 484 

Cheese Salad, 339 

Cherries, 483 

Cream, 490 

Custard, 480 

Date Custard, 482 

Fruit Juices, 496 

Peaches, 482 



622 



Index 



Frozen Peaches — Continued 

Peach Shortcake, 489 

Plum Pudding, 483 

Rice Pudding, 490 

Strawberries, 482 
Fruit Cake, 457 

Cakes, Farmer's, 475 
Ohio, 461 

Cocktails, 513 

Desserts, 434-439 

Jelly, 431 

Juice, Frozen, 496 

Muffins, 399 

Omelet, 371 

Pies of Dried Fruit, 448 

Pinwheel, 469 

Pudding, 417 

Punch, 518 

Salads, 348-353 

Dressings for, 357 

Soups, 83 

Supreme of, 437 

with Jelly Mac6doine, 432, 

575 
Frunut Salad, 351 
Frying in Camp, 603 
Fudge, Baltimore, 503 

Cocoanut, 504 

Maple, 504 



Game, Notes on Kinds of, 227 

Salads, 329-332 

Sauces, 243-248 

Soups, 59 
Garlic vinegar, 550 
Garnishes, Notes on, 250-253 

for Salads, 259 

for Soup, 87 
Gas, Cooking by, 3 
Gems, Rice, 397 
German Canape, 31 

Pancake, 406 

Potato Cakes, 296 

Potatoes, 295 
Giblet Pie, 222 

Soup, Chicken, 60 
Duck, 60 
Gingerbread, 473, 476 

Honey and Sour Milk, 475 

Soft, 579 
Ginger Cake, Maple, 474 

Fritters, 170 

Ice Cream, 481 

Preserved Green, 534 



Pudding, 417 

Punch, 517 

Snaps, 476, 580 

Water ice, 495 
Glaze, Meat, 260 
Glazed Sweet Potatoes, 297 
Glen House Flannel Cakes, 404 
Gluten Muffins, 398 
Gnome Punch, 517 
Golden Pudding, 417 
Good Stuffing, 230 
Goose, Roast, 219 

Swedish Roast, 220 
Gooseberry Jelly, 535 

Sauce, 241 

Sherbet, 492 

Tart, 329 

Trifle, 414 
Graham Bread, Steamed, 392 
Grape, Canape, 32 

Cooler, 517 

Ice, 495 

Jellied, 574 

Ketchup, 553 

Sauce, 112 

Tart (White), 429 

Trifle, 414 

and Celery Salad, 353 
Grapefruit Fritters, 170 

Jelly, 537 

Marmalade, 533 

Salad, 342 

Trifle, 414 

and Sardine Canape, 28 
Gravies, art of Making, 233 
Graj^sh with Eggs, 364 
Green Com au Gratin, 280 
Croquettes, 279 

Gage Sweetmeats, 531 

Pea Cutlets, 291 

Peppers, Egyptian, Stuffed, 
291 

Tomatoes, Fried, 302 

Turtle Soup, 53 
Greens, 283 
Gruels, 556 
Guinea Fowl, Notes on, 222 

en Casserole, 222, 610 

H 

Halibut, au Gratin, 114 
Baked, 113 
Chicken, Salad, 328 
Deviled, 114 



Index 



623 



Halibut — Continued 

Macaroni, 115 

Pineapple, 115 

Turbot, 114 
Ham, Baked Fresh, 204 
Smoked, 203 

Boiled, 203 

Fried, 204 

Grilled with Bananas, 207 

Mousse, 158 

Muffins, 397 

Patties, 167 

and Chow-Chow, 592 

and Truffles, 306 

and Veal Pie, 192 

with Shirred Eggs, 364 
Hamburger Steak, 185, 612 
Hard Sauce, 423 
Harvest Punch, 519 
Hash, Fine, 181 

Coarse, 181 
Hazelnut Salad, 341 
Heart, Baked, 185 
Heart-of-Palm Canap6, 30 

Mixture with Mayonnaise, 36 

Potage, 92 
Herring Roe in Oil Relish, 36 
Hessian Omelet, 369 

Sauce, 242 
Hickory Nut Candy, 500 
Hodge-Podge (Soup), 48 
Holly Leaves, to Frost, 261 
Home Made Bread, 389-392 
Ice Creams, 477 

Nursing, 562 

Stuffed Olives, 261 
Hominy, 315 
Honey, Cake, 458 

Hot, with Rice, 318 

Love Sauce, 485 

Mousse, 496 

Posset, 519 

Puffs, 501 

and Baked Beans, 159 

and Sour Milk Gingerbread, 

475 
Honeycomb Gingerbread, 473 
Hongkong Cooler, 517 
Hopping John, 290 
Hors d'CEuvres, 35 

Horseradish Sauce, 245 

Vinegar, 551 
Horse's Neck (Temperance), 521 
Hot Breads, 393 

Cross Buns, 399 

Spice, 248 



Water Pie Crust, 443 
How to Stuff Fowl, 209 
Hungarian Goulash, 189 



Ice Cream, Notes on Making, 477 
Novel Ways of Serving, 

487 _ 
Sandwiches, 488 
Sauces for, 485 
Ices, Notes on, 490 
Icings for Cakes, 464-466 
Imperial Soup, 41 
India Canap^, 29 
Indian Trifle, 414 
Invalid Cookery, 555 
Drinks, 558 
Food Hints, 557 
Jelly, 557 
Irish Potato Cakes, 296 

Stew, 199 
Italian Cutlets, 198 
Spaghetti, 320 
Squash, Notes on, 299 



Jam for Summer, 537-539 

Shortcake, 426 
Japanese Salad, 350 
Jellied Beets, 311 

Calf's Tongue, 157 

Carrots and Rice, 311 

Cucumber and Onion, 311 

Dates, 431 

Desserts, 430-434 

Mutton Broth, 310 

Peas and Cauliflower, 312 

Salads, 345-348 
. , Soups, 80 
Jellies for Summer, 537-539 

to be Used with Fish, 539-542 
Jelly, Aspic, 257 

for Decoration, 258 
Asparagus in, 312 

Beef, 311 

Calf's Foot, 310 

Chicken, 309 

Doughnuts, 472 

Essence of Chicken, 81 

Sandwiches, 580 

Sponge, 460 

Tapioca, 310 

Tomato, 345 

Tutti Frutti, 433 



624 



Index 



Jelly — Continued 

Vegetables in, 309 

Watermelon, 441 

and Cheese Salad, 347 
Jerusalem Artichokes, 270 
Jewish Shallit, 450 
John Bull's Own Pudding, 418 
JoUyboys, 469 
Jumbles, 467 
Junket, 583 

Devonshire, 374 

K 

Ketchups, Making of, 552 
Kidneys, Madeira, 150 

in Sauce, 156 

Stew, 183 
Kohlrabi, 284 



Ladies' Delight Pickle, 544 
Lady Baltimore Cake, 462 
Lamb, Carving, 175 

Notes on, 196 

Fries, 201 

Roasting, 200 

Stuffed Shoulder, 200 

Sweetbreads, 200 

Tongue Salad, 344 

Trotters, 199 
Lard, 205 

Larding Meats, 178 
Layer Cakes, 461-464 

Cake Plain, 463 

Made with Oil, 464 
Leeks, 284 

Left-Overs, Use of, 218 
Lemon Cake, Filling, 464 

Ice, 494 

Pie Princess, 451 

Sauce, 418, 424 

Sherbet, 491 

Soup, 82 

Sponge, 412 
Lemonade, 523 

Nourishing, 559 
Lentil Pancakes, 407 

Soup, 67 
Lettuce, Birds' Nest Salad, 339 

Cream of, Soup, 77 

with Baked Asparagus, 271 
Lilac Sherbet, 491 
Lima Beans, 273 

Baked, 273 

Pancakes, 407 



Puree of, 72 
Litchi Salad, 340 
Little Cooks, Recipes for the, 581 
Liver, 186 

Calf's, 152, 171, 191, 194 

Canap6, 29, 33 

Dumplings, 89 

Ketchup, 553 

Saut6, 217 

Savoy, 159 

and Apple Rounds, 159 

and Cucumber Patd, 166 
Lobster, choosing and preparing 
of, 128 

k la Militaire, 152 

a la Newburg, 131 

Bisque, 54 

Broiled, 134 

Buttered, 131 

Canap6, 34 

Cardinal, 133 

Chops, 131 

Chowder, 57 

Creole, 133 

Fritters, 172 

Omelet, 370 

Provengale, 133 

Pur^e, 54 

Salad, Baked, 327 

Scalloped, 132 

Soup, 51 

Stuffing for Fish, 119 

Tarts, 132 

and Codfish Tongues, 132 

and Sweetbread, 130 
Lome, 206 

M 

Macaroni, Baked, 319 

Notes on, 319 

Cutlets, 319 

Halibut, 115 

Soup, 78 

with Safifron Curry Sauce, 320 

with Spinach, 320 
Macaroons, 469 

Peanut, 386 
Mac^doine, Fruit, 575 
in Jelly, 432 

Stuffing, 232 

Vegetable, 163, 311 
Salad, 337 
Mackerel, Broiled, 117 

Creamed, 117 

Spanish, 122 



Index 



625 



Madagascar Relish, 36 
Madeira Kidneys, 150 
Maids of Honor, 428 
Maitre d'Hotel Butter, 242 
Making Canned Salads, 341 
Maple Ginger Cake, 474 

Icing, 466 

Mousse, 497 

Sauce, 487 
Marble Cake, 457 
March Pane (Candy), 505 
Markets of Chinatown, 312 
Marlborough Pudding, 419 
Marmalade au Crhme (Apple), 435 
Marron Frappd, 494 
Marrons in Honey, 387 

in Spinach, 302 

Sauce for Fowls, 245 

Soup, 86 

Prune Salad, 351 

Tart, 430 

and Sweetbread, 154 
Marrow, Baked, 307 

Balls for Soup, 90, 91 

Bones, 155 

Preserved, 535 

a Vegetable, 307 
Marshmallow Filling, 465 
Martha Washington Chowder, 54 
Martini Cocktail, 512 
Maryland Chowder, 55 ^ 

Fried Chicken, 2 1 r 
Matelote Sauce, 242 
Mayonnaise, Boiled, 356 

Plain, 355 

Russian, 356 

with Mustard, 356 

with Walnut Oil, 355 

without Oil, 356 
Mead, 522 
Meals, serving of, 6 
Measuring Tables, 23 
Meat Glaze, 260 

Salads, 329-332 

Sauces, 243-248 

Soups, 41 
Meats, 177 

Melons, Serving of, 440, 442 
Menus for Children's Parties, 585 
Meringue Pudding, 419 

and Whipped Cream Sauce, 
486 
Mexican Cake, 475 

Frijoles, 275 

Soup, 47, 61 
Midgets, 468 

40 



Military Pudding, 418 
Milk, Notes on, 373 

Punch, French Frozen, 485 

Snap, 523 
Mince Pie, 451 

Roly Poly Pudding, 422 
Mincemeat, Banana, 446 

Green Tomato, 547 
Minnehaha Cake, 465 
Mint Jelly, 538 

Julip, 518 

Jelly, 541 

Sauce, 245 
Mirabelle and Green Almond 

Salad, 353 
Mocha Filling, 466 

Pancakes, 408 
Mock Cherry Pie, 451 

Chicken Cutlet, 151 

Fish Pates, 299 

Scallops, III 

Turtle Soup, 45 
Molasses, Candy, 500 

Dainties, 473 

Soft, Cookies, 474 
Mollusks, 138 
Monte Carlo Soup, 79 
Mortadelle-de-Bologne Relish, 36 
Moselle Cup, 514 
Mousses, Notes on, 496 
Muffins, Chestnut, 398 

Com, 398 

English, 402 

Fruit, 399 

Gluten, 398 

Ham, 397 

Quick, 583 
Mullagatawny Soup, 60 
Mulled Cider, 515 

Wine, 515 
Mush, Corn-Meal, 315 
Mushrooms, a la Bordelaise, 286 

Brown, Sauce, 244 

Fresh, Fried in Butter, 285 

in Baked Spanish Onion, 286 

Ketchup, 552 

Notes on, 284 

Pates, 285 

Soup, 69 

Sweetbreads, 161, 195 

Under Glass, 286 

White, Sauce, 248 
Mussels, Buttered, 146 

Canape, 30 

Notes on, 146 

Salad, 328 



626 



Index 



Mustard, English, 360 

Pickle, 550 

Sauce, 242, 359 
Mutton, Boiled Leg of, 197 

Broth, 48, 556 
Jelly, 310 

Chops, English, 199 

Crown or Rack Roast, 201 

Cutlet, Stewed, 558 

Dormers, 198 

Irish Stew, 199 

Italian Cutlets, 198 

Notes on, 196 

Pie, 197, 199 

Soup, 45 

Toad in Hole, 156 



N 



Nasturtium Pickles, 544 
Nesselrode Pudding, 484 
Newburg Omelet, 369 
New England Clam Chowder, 56 
Noodles, 322 

Escalloped, 323 

to Make Plain, 323 

with Brown Sauce, 323 
Notes on Chinese Cookery, 312 

Fish, 93 
Nourishing Drinks, 558 
Novel Ways to Serve Ice Creaxn, 

487 
Nursery Cookery, 572 
Nursing at Home, 562 
Nuts, as Food, 384-388 

Bread, 400 

Butter (Brazil), 384 

Creams, 504 

Cutlets, 386 

Doughnuts, 473 

Notes on, 382-384 

Roast, 385 

Salads, 337, 341 

Soups, 83 

Wafers, 467 

and Cucumber Salad, 347 

to Salt, 384 

O 

Oat Cakes (Scotch), 401 
Oatmeal, to Boil, 315 

Bread with Honey, 392 
Ohio Fruit Cake, 461 
Okra Soup, 68 



Olives, Beef, 182 

Fresh, 329 

Home Stuffed, 261 

Notes on. Uses of, 261, 264 

Ripe, Omelet of, 370 

Salad of Fresh, 339 

Sauce, 246 

with Sweetbreads, 160 
Omelets, 152, 368-373, 435 

Plain, 368 

Souffle, 371 

Sweet, 371-373 

with Cheese, 370 
One, Two, Three, Four Cake, 460 
Onions, Baked Spanish, 287 

Brown Sauce, 243 

Burnt, for Gravy, 238 

Fritters, 288 

Omelet, 370 

Pie, 287 

Puffs, 288 

Scalloped, 288 

Sauce, 245 

Soup, 68 

to Boil, 287 

to Fry, 287 

and Cucumber Jellied, 311 
Orange, Baked, Pudding, 419 

Batter Pudding, 419 

Blossom (Drink), 511 

Chocolate Quarters, 437 

Cream, 432 

Gravy, 246 

Ice, 495 

Jelly, 557 

Layer Cake, Cuban, 461 

Omelet, 372 

Parfait, 494 

Pie, 452 

Shortcake, 426 

Souffle, 437 

Soup, 82, 87 

and Duck Salad, 33 1 

and Rhubarb Jam, 535 
Outdoor Cookery, 602 
Oxtail Soup, 43 
Oysters, Baked in Tomatoes, 141 

Bombay, 143 

Bundles, 142 

Croquettes, 142 

Curried, 143 

Deviled, 153 

Fritters, 169 

Loaf, 140 

Newburg, 140 

Notes on, 138 



Index 



627 



Oysters — Continued 
Pates, 163 
Pie, 142 
Salad, 325 
Scalloped, 143 
Shortcake, 144 
Soup, 50 
Stuffing, 231 
Toad in Hole, 156 
and Corn Scallop, 141 
and Fish Pie, 57 



Pakchoi (Chinese Salad), 335 

Pancakes, 404-408 

Pan Fish, 117 

Panocha (Candy), 499 

Parfaits, 493 

Parker House Rolls, 399 

Parsley and Butter Sauce, 246 

Green, 290 
Parsnip, Cones, 289 

Pur^e, 75 

Smothered, 289 

Soup, 66 

to Boil, 289 
Parties for Children, 584 
Party Menus for Children, 585 
Pastel Sauce, 423 
Pastry Crust, 442 

Flowers, 444 
Pat^-de-Foi-Gras (Relish), 36 
Patties, 162 
Peach, Bavaroise, 438, 575 

Cobbler, 411 

Cream, 577 

Frozen, 482 

Melba, 483 

Pie, 452 

Pudding, 420 

Pufflets, 429 

Pur^e, 74 

Salad, 348 

Sherbet, 491 

Shortcake, Frozen, 489 

Sweet Pickled, 546 

and Rice, 575 
'^eanut Candy, 501 

Cookies, 466 

Macaroons, 386 

Soup, Cream of, 87 
Pears, Baked, 438 

Pie, 449 

Princess, 438 



Peas, Cow, 290 

Green, Cutlets, 291 

Jelhed with CauUflower, 312 

Soup, 63 

Fresh, 66 

to Stew or Boil Fresh, 290 
Pecans and Cherries, Preserved, 

535 
Peppers, Boiled, 292 

Egyptian Stuffed, 291 

Macedoine, 292 

Notes on, 291 

Shad, 103 

Stuffed Green, 291 

Sweet Pickled, 546 

with Apples, 292 ; with Ban- 
ana, 293 
Perch, Stewed, 122 
Petit Marmite (Soup), 47 
Pheasant Soup, 61 
Philadelphia Fish House Punch, 

516 
Pickle, Hors d'CEuvres, 35 

Mustard, 550 

Sour Spice, 36 
Pickled Surprise, 543 
Pickles, Quick, 543 
Pickling, Idea on, 542 

Notes on, 525 

to Make a Spice Bag, 543 
Pie, Beefsteak, 186 

Chicken, 216 

Chicken Salad, 330 

Clam, 145 

Codfish, 107 

Crust, Hot Water, 443 
Plain, 443 

Egyptian Meat, 194 

Fish and Oyster, 57 

Giblet, 222 

Mutton, 197, 199 

Notes on, 442-454 

Onion, 287 

Oyster, 142 

Pigeon, 223 

Pork, 204 

Rabbit, 226 

Turnip, 304 

Veal and Ham, 192 
Pigeon, Broiled, 223. 

Cookery, 222 

Pie, 223 

Roast, 223 

Salad, 231 

Soup, 62 
Pig, Roast, 205 



628 



Index 



Pig's Feet, 205 
Pike, Pineapple, 118 
Pilgrim Pudding, 420 
Pimento Bisque, 74 
Pine Nut Roast, 386 

Paste, 385 
Pine Roast, 385 
Pineapple Cocktail, 513 

Cones, 489 

Fingers, 35 

Fizz, 560 

Halibut, 115 

Ice, 494 

Cream, 479 

Jelly, 537 

Marshmallow, 501 

Mousse, 497 

Pat6, 166 

Pie, 452 

Pike, 118 

Pilot, 523 

Punch, 518 

Puree, 74 

Sauce, 242, 487 

Sherbet, 491 

Whip, 438 

and Cheese Salad, 338 

and Fish Canap6, 29 

and Shad Salad, 329 

and Tuna Fish, 164 
Plain Layer Cake, 463 

Made with Oil, 464 

Omelet, 368 

Pie Crust, 443 
Planking any Fish, Recipe for, loi 
Plum Cake, Old Fashioned, 461 
Plums, Damson Cheese, 530 

Green Gage Sweetmeats, 531 

Paste, 531 

Pate, 167 

Preserving and Pickling of, 
530 

Pudding (Damson), 448 

Pudding (Frozen), 483 

Sherbet, 491 

Soup, 84 
Polish Chops, 193 

Filled Fish, 109 

Tarts, 430 
Pomeranian Soup, 70 
Pompano Stuffed with Lobster, 

119 
Popcorn Pudding, 420 
Popovers, 395, 396 
Popping Com in Oil, 501 
Porch Drinks, 520 



Pork, Notes on, 202 

Baked Smoked Ham, 203 

Boiled Ham, 203 

Carving, 175 

Fresh Baked Ham, 204 

Fried Ham, 204 

Grilled Ham with Bananas, 

207 
Ham Mousse, 158 

Pat6s in Aspic, 167 

and Truffles, 306 

and Veal Pie, 192 
Lard, 205 
Lomo, 206 
Pie, 204 
Pig's Feet, 205 
Roast, 204 

Pig, 205 

Stuffed Tenderloin, 206 
Sausage a la Malaga, 154 

Creamed, 155 

Meat, 205 

Pasties, 207 

Puffs, 155 
and Banana Croquettes, 156 
Porto de Menzanas, 259 
Potage Cressonniere, 75 

Printanier, 44 
Potato Cakes, Irish, 296 

German, 296 
Chowder, 58 
Creamed, 573 
Custards, 297 
Danish, 296 
Dumplings, 90 

Austrian, 88 
Escalloped, 295 
Fingers, 296 
French Fried, 294 
German, 295 
Notes on, 293 
Pancakes, 406 
Riced, 297 
Rissoles, 295 
Salad, New, 333 ■ 
and Shrimp Salad, 344 
Soup, 68 

Stuffed en Casserole, 295 
Stuffing, 230 
Sweet, Buns, 396 

Glazed, 297 

with Sherry, 297 

Waffles, 403 
Potatoes to Boil and Bake, 

294 
Pot-au-Feu, 46 



Index 



629 



Pot Cheese, 378 

Roast, 179 
Poulet a la Marengo, 212 
Poultry, Giblet Pie, 222 

How to Stuff Fowls, 209 

Notes on, 208 

Sauces for, 243-248 

Soups, 59 

to Bone Fowls, 225 

Uses of Left-Overs, 218 
Potmd Cake, 455 
Pralines, Holiday, 506 

Pistachio, 507 
Preserve Making, 525 
Princess Lemon Pie, 451 
Prune Jelly, 538 

and Marron Salad, 351 

Molded, 576 

Nutted, 575 

Pie, 449 

Salad, 350 

Sherbet, 402 

Souffle, 576 

Soup, 84 

Whip, 439 
Prussian Sauce, 358 
Puddings, 387, 415-422, 483, 484 

Brown Betty, 583 

for Children, 577 

Sauces, 423, 424 

Yorkshire, 402 
Puff Balls, 467 
Puff Paste, 442, 444 
Pumpkin Pie, 453 

Preserve, 534 

Punch, 517 
Punches, 516-520 

Fresh Frozen Milk, 485 
Puree, 54, 71, 72, 74, 75 

Q 

Quail Boiled in Butter, 228 
Queen Cakes, 459 
Queen of Pudding, 420 
Quick Biscuit, 396 
Quick Hot Breads, 393 
Quick Pickles, 543 
Quinces, 439, 532, 549 



R 



Rabbit Pie, 226 
Soup, 62 
Stew, 226 



Radishes, Creamed, 298 

Notes on, 298 
Raisin, Boiled, Pudding, 421 

Pie, 450 
Rare Trifles for the Table, 254- 

264 
Rarebit Omelet, 368 
Raspberry Bavarian Cream, 432 
Exquisite, 439 
Ice, 495 

Cream, 481 
Rings, 488 
Soup, 82 

and Strawberry Salad, 361 
Vinegar, 522 
Red Cabbage, 277 

Snapper a la Carbon, 105 

a la Newburg, 106 
Baked, 104 
Chops, 105 
Chowder, 155 
in Aspic, 125 
Molded, 123 
Planked, 105 
Salad, 328 
Relishes, 34-36 

Notes on, 27 
Rennet Custard, 412 
Rheumatic Diets, 561 
Rhubarb Fool, 412 
Fresh, Salad, 349 
Fritters, 430 
Jelly, 540 
Omelet, 373 
and Orange Jam, 533 
Pie, 452 
Pudding, 421 
Sherbet, 492 
Shortcake, 425 
Rice, Fried, 318 

Dishes, Notes on, 316 
Fritters, 318 
Gems, 397 
Gruel, 556 
Milanese, 318 
Pancakes, 406 
Pilau, 317 
Pudding, 421 

Frozen, 490 
Soup, 78, 572 
to Boil, 317 
Waffles, 403 

and Cheese Custard, 410 
Carrots Jellied, 311 
Hot Honey, 318 
Peaches, 575 



630 



Index 



Ripe Olive Omelet, 370 
Rocky Mountain Sauce, 423 
Roast Beef, 179, 612 

Crown or Rack, 201 

Pig, 205 

Pork, 204 

Vegetarian, 308 
Roasting in Camp, 603 
Robert Sauce, 247 
Roe Herring, 154 

Shad, 103, 327 
Rolls, Egg, 396 

Parker House, 399 
Roly-Poly Mince Pudding, 422 
Romaine Salad, 333 
Roquefort Cheese and Endive 
Salad, 338 

Cup, 514 

Leaf Jam, 538 
Royal Icing, 465 
Rum Punch, 516 
Rusk, 395 
Russian Bortsch (Soup), 70 

Canap6, 32 

Cream, 432 

Mayonnaise, 356 

Meat Salad, 329 

Pancakes, 407 

Relish, 35 
Rye Bread, 393 



Saffron Curry Sauce, 320 

Sage, to Dry, 260 

Sago Soup, 79 

Salad, Balls Deviled, 338 
Canned, Making of, 341 
Chapon (for Salad Bowl), 

325 
Dressings and Sauces, 354- 
360 

for Children, 570 
Fried, 335 
Frozen Cheese, 339 
Garnishes, Notes on, 259 
Jellied, 345-348 
Notes on, 324 
Pat6, 165 
Puffs, 332 
Spring, 582 

Vinegars, for Summer, 550 
of Cheese, 337 to 341 

Eggs, 337-341 

Fish, 325-329 



Fruit, 348-353 
Meat, 329-332 
Nuts, 337-341 
Vegetables, 332-337 
Salade au Nid, 341 
Salianka, 80 
Sally Lunn, 395 
Salmon a la Carbon, 97 
Genevese, 96 

Boiled, 96 

Cakes, 96 

Cutlets, 97 

Deviled, 98 

Pickled (Cold), 125, 126 

in Ramekins, 97 

Souffle, 97 

Soup, 52 

Vernon, 124 
Salsify Soup, T] 

Pates, Mock Fish, 299 

to Boil, 298 
Salt nuts, to, 384 
Sandwich Fillings, 594-601, 605 

for All Occasions, 593 

Jelly, 580 

Surprise, 592 

Sweet, 597 
Sardine Canap^, 32 

Omelet, 152 

Sauce, 243 

and Grapefruit (Canap^), 28 

and Scrambled Eggs, 364 
Sauce, Art of Making, 233 
Sauces, 235, 257 

to be Served with Fish, 238 
Game, 243-248 
Ice Cream, 485 
Meat, 243-248 
Poultry, 243-248 
Puddings, 423, 424 
Salads, 354-360 

"Honey Love," 485 

Mandalay, 358 

Piquant, 247, 358 

Tomato, 237 

Violette, 359 

White, 236 
Sausage a la Malaga, 154 

Creamed, 155 

French, 156 

Meat, 205 

Pasty, 207 

Puffs, 155 

Stuffing, 232 
Savory Canap6, 28 

Cherokees, 158 



Index 



631 



Savory — Continued 

Marrow Bones, 155 

Stuffing, 230 
Scallops, Blanquette, 150 

en Casserole, 146 

Mock, III 

Notes on, 146 

Salad, 326 

Soup, 49 
School Luncheons, 589 
Scones, Scotch, 397 
Scotch Short Bread, 401 

Cakes, 402 

Mutton Broth, 48 

Oat Cakes, 401 

Scones, 397 

Woodcock, 364 
Scottish Soup, 67 
Sea Foam Sauce, 487 
Serving Meals, 6 
Serving of Mutton, 440-442 
Shad, Baked, loi 

Belgian Stuffed, 104 

Broiled, 100 

Cakes, 102 

Creamed with Asparagus, 102 

Creole, 103 

Escalloped, 102 

Molded, 125 

Peppers, 103 

and Pineapple Salad, 329 

Planked, loi 

Roe, 103 

Salad, 327 
Shallit, Jewish, 450 
Shalot, Vinegar, 550 
Shell fish. Choosing and Preparing 

of, 128 
Sherbets, Notes on, 490 
Short Bread, 401 
Shortcakes, 424-426 

a la Panchard, 424 

Chicken, 213 
Shrimp, Aspic Salad, 348 

Bisque, 53 

Canape, 31 

Creamed, 137 

Notes on, 137 

Scalloped, 138 

Spanish Fricassee, 138 

Tarts, 138 

and Potato Salad, 344 
Sick-Room Hints, 555 
Silver Cake, 458 
Silverware, Care of, 17 

Cleaning, 20 



Simnel Cake, 471 

Simple Menus, 569 

Skate Soup, 49 

Slaw, Hot Cabbage, 277 

Small Cakes, 466-473 

Smelts, Fried, 116 

Snails, Notes on, 147 

Snapper, Red, Chowder, 55 

Snippi Doodles, 469 

Soda Water, Home Made, 521 

Sole, Filet of, 112, 113 

Solferino Soup, 43 

Solid Chocolate Cake, 456 

Sorrel Soup, 67 

Soubise (French Onion Sauce), 

245 
Soup Stocks, Fish, 40 

Red, 38 

Vegetable, 40 

White, 39 
Soups, 37-92 

a la Cantatrice, 44 

a la Reine, 59 

Cereal, 77 

Cold, 80 

Concentrated (for Camping), 
604 

Conserve, 41 

Cream and Puree, 71 

Dumplings, 89 

Fish, 48 

Fruit, 83 

Game, 59 

Garnishes, 87 

Jellied, 80 

Meat, 41 

Notes on, 37 

Nut, 83 

Poultry, 59 

Vegetable, 63 
Sour Cream Sauce, 307 

Roast, 180 
Southern Pickle, 547 
Soy, 544 _ ^ 
Spaghetti a la Turque, 32 1 

Buttered, 321 

Cutlets, 320 

in Tomato Aspic, 321 

Italian, 320 

Notes on, 319 
Spanish Cake, 457 

Cream, 433 

Fritters, 171 

Mackerel, 122 

Omelet, 368 

Onions Baked, 287 



632 



Index 



Spanish — Continued 

Pickles, 548 

Relish, 259 

Soup, 85 
Spice Bag, to Make a, 543 

Cakes, 474 

Hot, 248 
Spiced Vinegar (Sweet), 551 
Spinach Coloring, 258 

Loaf, 301 

Pur6e, 75 

Relish, for Salad Course, 

259 

Souffle, 301 

Soup, 70 

to Wash and Boil, 300 

with Macaroni, 320 

with Marrons, 302 
Sponge Cake, 456, 578 

Jelly, 460 
Sprouts, Brussels, Escalloped, 

275 
Squab Boned, 224 

Broiled, 223 

Cookery, 222 

en Casserole, 224 

Fried, 224 

Salad, 332 

Stewed, 224 
Squash Hubbard, 300 

Italian, Notes on, 299 
Steaks h la Creole, 188 

en Casserole, 189 

Hamburger, 612 

Notes en Cooking and Serv- 
ing, 187 

Sauce for, 247 

See Beef. 

with Mushrooms, 189 
Stew, Brown, 184 

Dumplings, 89 

Irish, 199 

Kidney, 183 
Stock Pot, 37 
Strawberries, Candied, 506 

Cocktail, 513 

Cream, 433 

Frozen, 482 

Ice, 495 

Jam, 538 

Mousse, 497 

Omelet, 372 

Parfait, 493 

and Raspberry Salad, 351 

Sauce, 486 

Shortcake, 426 



String Beans, Baked, 274 
Cuban Style, 272 
to Boil, 274 
Strudel Austrian Apple, 427 

Cheese, 380 
Stuffed Olives, Home, 261 

Fowls, 209 
Stuffings, 230-233 
Succotash, 302 
Suet Dumplings, 91 

Pudding, 422 
Supreme of Fruits, 437 
Swan Cocktail, 511 
Sweet Cream Dressing, 357 
Sweet Fritters, 428-430 

Omelets, 371-373 

Pickled Bananas, 546 
Peppers, 546 

Pickles, 546 

Potatoes Glazed, 297 
with Sherry, 297 

See Potatoes 

Stuffing, 233 

and Sour Sauce for Steak, 
247 

Spiced Vinegar, 551 
Sweetbread a la Port, 161 

and Chestnut Paste, 592 

and Lobster en Casserole, 130 

and Marrons, 154 

and Mushrooms, 161, 195 

Baked, Salad, 331 

Entree, 161 

Fritters, 170 

Lamb's, 200 

Notes on, 192 

Olives, 160 

Pat6, 162 

Savory Cherokees, 158 
Swiss Chicken Salad, 330 

Steak, 186 
Syllabub, 411 



Table Linens, 1 1 

for Veranda, 13 
perfuming of, 15 
to Remove Stains from, 

13 

Tangerine Preserves, 533 
Tansy Salad, 337 
Tapioca Soup, 78 

Custard, 411 

Jelly, 310, 572 
Tarts, 428-430 



Index 



633 



Tea, Notes on, 509, 560 

Cake, 459 

Frozen Beef, 81 
Tenderloins Roast and Stuffed, 
206 

Sherry, 153 
Terrapin, How to Prepare, 228 
Testing Fish, 93 
Thousand Island Dressing, 358 
Tilefish, Baked, 98 

Boiled, 99 

Cakes, 99 

Escalloped, 100 

Filet of, 100 

In Cucumber Jelly, 124 

Rataplan, 100 

Turbot, 99 
Tipsy Salad, 352 
To Brown Flour, 260 

Dry Sage, 260 

Frost Holly Leaves, 261 
Toad in Hole, 156 
Toast Bombay, 120 

Cinnamon, 573 

Cream, 573 

Water, 559 
Tomato Aspic, Spaghetti in, 321 

Baskets, 257 

Bisque, 76 

Chowchow, 547 

Canape (Cold), 33 

Chutney, 545 

Curry, 237 

Eggs, 363 

Figs, 549 
Fried, 302 

Green Mincemeat, 547 
Pie, 450 

Jelly, 345, 539 

Ketchup, 552 

Sauce, 237 

Soup (Simple), 581 
Cream of, 76 
Fresh, 69 

Soy (Ripe), 544 

Stewed (Fresh), 303 

Stuffed, 303 

as a garnish, 259 
Tongue, Boiled, 193 

Polish stewed, 153 

Smoked, 185 

Turnovers, 160 
Trifles, Notes on English, 412 
Tripe, 186 

a la Creole, 160 

k la Poulette, 157 



Creole Pat6s, 165 
Hood of. Roasted, 193 
Trotters, 199 
Truffles, a I'ltalierme, 306 
and Ham, 306 
au Naturel, 305 
Baked, 307 
Salad, 337 
Tuna Fish, Baked in Peppers, 122 
Croquettes, 121 
Escalloped, 121 
Fritters, 169 
Loaf, 121 
Mignon, 123 
Pasties, 120 

and Pineapple Pat^, 164 
Tunny Fish in Tomato Sauce, 36 
Turkey, Use of Left-Overs, 218 
Deviled Legs, 219 
Roasting of, 218, 231, 232 
Soup, 62 
Turkish Delight, 503 
Paste, 503 
Stuffing, 231 
Turnip Croquettes, 304 
Fried, 303 
Notes on, 303 
Pie, 304 
Salad, 347 
Stuffed, 304 
Yellow, 304 
Turtle Soup (Green), 53 

Mock Soup, 45 
Tutti Frutti, 479 

Cheese, 380 
Jar, The, 536 
Jelly, 433 

U 

Unleavened Bread, 400 
Up-Side-Downie Cakes, 467 
Use of Left-Overs, 218 

V 

Vanilla Ice Cream, 577, 478 
Veal, Boiled Calf's Head, 191 

Bulgarian Chops, 194 

Calf's Liver, 191 

Croquettes, 196 

Cutlets, 191 

en Casserole, 195 

and Ham Pie, 192 

Joints, 176 

Notes on, 190 



634 



Index 



Veal — Continued 

Polish Chops, 193 

Ragout, 612 

Roast Filet of, 190 

Salad, 330 

Sweetbreads, 192, 195 
Vegetable Fritters, 168 

Macedoine, 163, 311 
for Children, 591 

Marrow, 307 
Soup, 69 
Baked, 307 
Sweet Pickled, 548 

Salads, 332-337 

Soups, 63 

Stuffing for Fish, loi 
Vegetables, Chinese, 312 

in Jelly, 309 

Notes on, 265-269 
Vegetarian Roast, 308 
Venetian Bread Cakes, 405 
Vermicelli, Notes on, 322 

Custard, 322 

Soup, 79 
Victoria Sandwiches, 468 
Vinegar Candy, 502 

for Summer Salads, 550 

W 

Waffles, 403, 404 
Walnut Fritters, 387 

Gravy, 248 

Ketchup, 554 

Kisses, 468 



Washington Cakes, 459 
Martha, Chowder, 54 

Pie, 453 
Water Chestnuts, 385 

Icing, 465 

Ices, Notes on, 490 
Watermelon Boat, 489 

Jelly, 441 

Rind Pickled, 545 

Squares, 441 

Sandwiches, 441 

Serving of, 440 
Weakfish, Bombay Toast, 120 

Pudding, 120 
Welsh Nectar, 521 

Rarebit, 379 
West Indian Pudding, 422 
Wheat Cakes, 404 
White Mushroom Sauce, 248 

Sauce, 236 
Wine Cups, 514, 515 

Jelly, 557 

Mulled, 515 

Whey, 560 
Wintergreen Bonbons, 506 



Yellow Turnips, 304 
Yorkshire Pudding, 402 



Zwieback, Venetian, 574 



Ji Selection from the 
Catalogue of 

G. P. PUTNAM'S SONS 



Complete Catalogues sent 
on application 



The Myrtle Reed 
Cook Book 

16°. 512 pages. $1.50 

** Olive Green*' on the series of 
books issued under that designa- 
tion of authorship has brought joy 
to many a jaded appetite. Few 
have suspected that under that 
nom de plume was concealed the 
identity of Myrtle Reed, author 
of "Lavender and Old Lace," 
"Spinner in the Sun," and many 
other popular novels. The Myrtle 
Reed Cook Book is, in its field, as 
alluring a volume as are, in fiction, 
the novels of this author. 

G. P. Putnam's Sons 

New York London 



The Allied Cookery 
Manual 

By 
Grace Clergue Harrison 

and 

Gertrude Clergue 

/2°. Boards, 75 cents net 

A compilation of the most seductive 
dishes native to the French, ItaHan, 
Russian, and Belgian. This volume is 
published in aid of the war suflFerers in 
devastated districts in France. The 
book is prefaced by Stephen Leacock, 
and also contains an Introduction by 
the Hon. Raoul Dandurand, Gom- 
mandeur de la Legion de Honneur. 

G. P. Putnam's Sons 

New York London 



BOSTON PUBLIC LIBRARY 



3 9999 05987 733 



Boston Public Library 
Central Library, Copley Square 

Division of 
Reference and Research Services 



The Date Due Card in the pocket indi- 
cates the date on or before which this 
book should be returned to the Library. 

Please do not remove cards from this 
pocket. 



Google 



This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on Hbrary shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 

to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 

to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 

are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other maiginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 

publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing this resource, we liave taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 
We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain fivm automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attributionTht GoogXt "watermark" you see on each file is essential for informing people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liabili^ can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 

at |http : //books . google . com/| 



Mrs. Norton's 
Gook-Book 



Selecting, Cooking, and Serving for 

the Home Table 



By 



Jeannette Young Norton 



G. P. Putnam's Sons 
New York and London 
Qbe fcnfcketbociKt ptete 

1917 



(oH-i.(o( 



GOPTKIGHT, 19x7 
BY 

JRANNETTE YOUNG NORTON 



Ube Itnfclicrbockev ptt§§, Hew Bork 



(-^- . \ ■* cry r «M ^ 



V " ' ''"'-.r^ 



This Book is Lovingly Dbdicatbd to 

MY SON 

WHOSE APPRECIATIVB ENTHUSIASM INSPIEED THE WRITING. 



PRBPACB 

In presenting this volume to the public I want to 
acknowledge my gratitude to my friends among master 
marketmen in all branches, prominent chefs, and good home 
cooks, all of whom have willingly and generously aided me 
in all ways possible. 

I have tried to ntiake this a cook book, pure and simple, 
avoiding all reference to, and rules of, chemistry, feeling 
that the pupils of the schools of domestic science have 
all such information and their training will enable them 
to adapt any desired recipe to fit their own chemical 
measurements. The lay woman would not ordinarily use 
such information if it were given. 

Peeling that all women would prefer to find adequate 
information as to season, time of cooking, and so on, directly 
with the recipe for the cooking of that particular food, I have 
incorporated all information in that way — ^with each recipe 
— rather than in separate tables. 

Believing the question of temperance to be a purely 
personal one, I have included wines and liquors in various 
recipes, where their presence is considered by culinary 
experts to be a decided improvement in the flavoring of 
the dish. 

As fashions in table decorations change with the seasons, 
I have decided to omit from these pages pictures of set 
tables. 

This book is the outcome of twenty-five years of experi- 
ence in cooking and testing foods. Many of these recipes 
have already appeared in magazines and newspapers 
throughout the United States. 



vi Preface 

Good cooking does not consist in the preparation of 
highly seasoned foods designed to pamper perverted 
appetites, but in cooking the simple things in a palatable 
way. To become a good cook one must love the work and 
never find it too hard or disagreeable, and must be impervi- 
ous to heat or cold. The impatient cook will soon wake 
to the fact that ever3rthing in the kitchen reflects her mood, 
and usually failure will be the result. The cheery cook, 
who looks upon her work as an art to be cultivated and 
learned, is bound to succeed. Cheeriness is infectious, and 
it will span the distance between her kitchen and her 
tradesmen's shops, with the result that they will all strive 
to do their best in her service. 

In using this book every recipe and the instructions 
about it should be carefully read before attempting the 
making of the dish selected. 

A carefully prepared index will be found at the back of 
the book. 

May all my sister-women who use this book find in it 
solutions for their culinary problems, and may success 
attend their earnest endeavors, is the cordial wish of, 

Jeannbtte Young Norton. 



Nbw York, 

January t JQI7. 



CONTENTS 



PART I.— GENERAL INFORMATION 

Cooking by Coal, Gas, and Electricity . 
Serving Meals 



Care of Table Linens 



Care of Silverware and Cut Glass 
Measuring Tables 



For the Home Cook's Important Consideration 



PART IL—RECIPES 



PAGB 

3 
6 

9 
17 
23 

24 



CANAPis AND Relishes 
Soups 

Soup Garnishes 
Fish . . . . 
crustaceie, mollusks 
Entries 

Art of Carving . 
Meats 

Beef 

Veal 

Mutton and Lamb 

Pork 



27 

37 
87 
93 

128 

150 

173 

177 

177 
190 

196 

202 



vii 



VUl 



Contents 



Poultry . . 

Game 

Stuffings, Sauces, and Gravies 
Food Garnishes and their Making 
Rare Trifles for the Table 



Vegetables 



Chinese Vegetables 



Cereals 



Macaroni and Spaghetti 



Salads 



Salad Dressings and Sauces 
Dairy Products: 



Eggs .... 
Milk, Cream, and Butter 
Cheese .... 



Nuts .... 

Bread Making and Breads 

Quick Hot Breads . 
Waffles and Pancakes 



Desserts and Sauces 



Shortcakes 

Tarts and Fritters 

Jellied Desserts . 

Fruit Desserts 

Pies and Pastry Making 



PAGB 
208 

230 
250 

265 
324 

354 



361 

373 
376 

382 

389 

393 
403 
409 

424 
428 

430 

434 

442 



Contents 



IX 



Cakes, Cake Making; Fillings . 


AND Icings 




FAGS 

■ 455 


Home-Made Ice Creams . . . . 


• 477 


Sherbets and Ices 








490 


Mousses .... 








496 


Candy ..... 








499 


Beverages 

* 








508 


Preserving and Pickling . 








525 


Invalid Cookery 








555 


Nursery Diet . . . , 








565 


Child Cookery .... 








. 581 


Children's Parties 








. 584 


School Luncheons 








. 589 


Sandwich Making; Fillings 








. 593 


Camp Cookery .... 








. 602 


Casserole Cookery 








. 608 


Index ..... 








. 615 



PART I 



General Information 



PART I 



General Infonnation 



COOKING BT COAL, GAS, AND BLECTRICITT 

Cooking with a coal range, while it gives the best results 
of any cooking medium, is the most troublesome. The 
cook must tmderstand every part of the range, the exact 
quantity of the chimney draught, and just what the range will 
do under all conditions. It must be thoroughly cleaned and 
the fire brick be kept free of clinkers if it is to do its best 
work. This is satisfactorily done by purchasing two 
pounds of zinc scraps from the tinsmith and strewing them 
over the top of a bright burning fire. They will soon dis- 
appear in white fumes of zinc oxide which will clean away 
all soot from stove and chimney as well as a sweep would 
do the job. There are many good coal ranges on the market 
but the one that is most highly favored is that with the 
gauze oven door. The writer speaks from experience, 
having used one steadily for sixteen years, and during that 
time never had things more delidously cooked in an oven 
or a thing burned except on one or two occasions when it 
was from carelessness and not due to the range conditions. 

Gas. When cooking with the modem gas stove there are 
a few regular rules that must be obeyed. When the stove 
is placed it should like a coal stove have a pipe running from 
it into a chimney in order to carry off all poisonous gases. 
When lighting the stove for use of the oven open the doors 
to liberate any gas that may be confined there, light the 
pilot light, then turn on one oven burner at a time and make 
sure they are lighted, then turn off the pilot, dose the doors, 
and allow the oven to heat to the desired temperature 
before using. When broiling, leave the door of the broiler 

3 



4 CooKin^ hy Coal, Gas, and Electricity 

open. When baking many cooks put a basin of water into 
the oven to supply moisture to the hot air. It is also a wise 
precaution to have the range tested and looked to by the 
gas man once in three months, to regulate the draughts and 
general things that may need an expert's eye. The asbestos 
pads are handy to keep things from burning on the gas 
holes, or those of perforated steel with a double bottom are 
good. An asbestos glove is nice to use while basting foods 
as it protects the hand and forearm from the heat. While 
cooking by gas is very handy and a good method, the cook 
must make up her mind to stay in the kitchen while the 
cooking is going on or run the risk of accidents of various 
kinds. The flame is not always dependable like the coal 
fire and one never knows just how to gauge it to leave for 
any length of time. 

Electricity. The coal range and the gas range have each 
marked a step towards cooking perfection, but the electric 
range seems to have distanced all previous methods. Elec- 
tric cooking is no longer confined to the very wealthy homes 
or to those where there is a man who understands electricity, 
but is available to everybody. The price of the current 
is now low enough to make it practical, and the control of 
heat used has been perfected. The operator at each burner 
commands three degrees of heat at the turn of a simple 
switch. There is no waste and the degree is always the 
same. No heat can escape from the oven for it is planned 
on the principle of the fixeless cooker and is heavily insulated 
to retain the heat. It is flameless and safe cooking, with 
no smoke, soot, or ash. The oven may be regulated by the 
thermometer set in the door. Among the good features 
of the electric range are many, one being that the oven is 
on a level with the cooking hole plate where it is very easy 
to get at what is cooking. Underneath there is a shelf 
which serves as a hot table on which foods may be kept 
warm while dishing up the meals. 

There are many arguments for and against the use of the 



CooKin^ hy Coal* Gas, and Electricity 5 

fireless cookers, but no matter which of the many kinds on 
the market are used they all have to have the foods to be 
cooked in them started on a range* that is all but the 
electric cooker. 

The electric fireless cooker is said to roast, bake, boil, 
fry, steam, and stew equally welL It is attached to the 
electric current also by an ordinary socket plug, and at the 
end of thirty nunutes the current is automatically discon- 
tinued. The cooking goes on as long as desired. A num- 
ber of things may be cooked at the same time, as in other 
styles of fireless cookers. 

The electric frying pan is operated by a socket plug, 
so it may be used right on the breakfast table if desired, 
as the electric toaster is used. It may also be inverted on 
its stand to become a disk stove, upon which other utensils 
may be heated. The current runs through the hollow 
handle. 



SERVING MEALS 

The five-cotirse dinner is the one generally served to-day, 
with the eight courses for state occasions. The instruc- 
tions given here for laying the table and a few words as to 
waiting may be used for luncheons, dinners, and formal 
breakfasts. After putting on the felt silence doth cover 
it with the tabledoth. Place the centerpiece, flowers, 
candles, and other decorations next. Arrange about the 
center the relishes, salted nuts, and bonbons in cut glass, 
silver, or fancy dishes. Put a service plate at each place 
and lay the folded napkin at the left, the knives at the 
right, the blades turned toward the plate; the one next 
the plate is the dessert knife, next the meat knife, then 
the fish knife, and then the soup spoon, and the oyster, 
clam, or snail fork is laid across them diagonally. On 
the left side the mating forks are laid, with an extra one for 
the entree. As butter is seldom served at dinner the plate 
and spreader are omitted, but if used they head the forks, 
while the water and wine glasses head the knives. The 
individual salt cellars head the plate; if the tiny castors are 
used then one is placed between each two guests. 

The dinner roll or soup stick ixiay be folded in the napkin 
if desired. As course replaces course the waitress removes 
the plate with her left hand, repladng the fresh one with her 
right hand, so that the place is never empty until the table 
is crumbed for the sweet cotirse. 

In modem dinner parties the cocktails and relishes are 
eaten in the drawing-room before dinner is announced, thus 
allowing fifteen minutes for the arrival of a belated guest. 

6 



Serving Meals 7 

The coffee and bonbons are also served in the drawing-room 
after dinner. • 

In serving at home or Informal dinners the hostess is 
always served first, at formal affairs the guest of honor, who 
usually sits at the host's right hand, is served first, then the 
hostess and the other guests. At most fashionable dinners 
the meat or game is carved in the butler's pantry and passed; 
or if the dish is very tmusually cooked and garnished it is 
set for a few minutes before the host so it can be seen, then 
it is removed to the sideboard or side table and carved. 

During the meat course the waitress must see that the 
bread is passed and that a second helping of vegetables is 
offered to each guest. In passing the vegetables she grasps 
the dish firmly in her left hand and holds it dose down to the 
edge of the plate and conveniently near for the guests to 
serve themselves without diflSculty. 

Serving dinner with one maid or without a maid requires 
careful calculation and a very restricted ntmiber of guests 
if it is to be a success. Of course the foods can be well 
planned and ready to serve in their regular order but the 
serving is the rub. The hostess must sit in the place where 
she makes least confusion going to and fro from the kitchen, 
and in this case good sized trays or a wheeled server are 
allowable. 

It is much easier to give three or four parties to a limited 
number if one must do it without help than one large and 
confusing affair. In fact an elaborate dinner is an abomi- 
nation if it is not well cooked and perfectly served. 

Children are debarred from formal dinners until they 
are quite well grown, which is a wise provision and lessens 
many complications. 

Dinner invitations are sent out two weeks in advance, 
and should be accepted or regrets sent within three or four 
days. 

Cocktails and relishes are served in the drawing-room. 
Oysters or clams on the half shell, or a canapd precede the 
8oup at table. Next the fish or an entr^. Then the meat 



8 Serving Meals 

and vegetables. Then the dinner may be broken with an 
ice. Then the game course, next the salad, with which the 
crackers and cheese are offered, then the pudding, or frozen 
dainties, the coffee and bonbons being served in the 
drawing room. 



TABLE UNBNS 

The modem woman has learned to take sucb pride in her 
linen closet and such good care of her linens that it is not 
an extravagance to add a few new pieces to her stock each 
season. She now keeps that which is not in everyday use 
folded in well blued linen cloths, the lace and embroidered 
centerpieces rolled on padded rollers, and her very fine 
doilies basted on soft cushions. The matron who enter- 
tains often must keep her table appointments up to the 
standard set by fashion; beyond that she may allow herself 
even a dash of originality, but the changes of fashions in 
laces, sizes of napkins and doilies, patterns of damasks and 
marking of the linen, are details wherein her knowledge 
must be kept up to the moment. Authority may vary in 
different^localities on some points in linen fashions, but the 
exclusive shops are good guides and it is safe to follow their 
advice in the main selection. 

The elegant dinner cloth of to-day is of lace and finest 
linen. Point de Venise lace is combined with Venetian 
embroidery and cutwork or with the Italian Reticella work 
in the most elaborate and expensive cloths. There are 
round cloths with filet medallions and an eighteen-inch 
fall below the table. For luncheon, if the lace cloth is to be 
used, it comes in size to exactly fit the top of the table, to be 
used without doilies, or in a set of centerpiece, size 27 or 
29 inches in diameter, and plate, butter-plate, and glass 
doilies. Which to use is a matter of taste only. The same 
cloths may be had in the square shape if one's table is 
square, and it is permissible to have an tmder-cloth of satin 
to match the color of the floral decorations. The "chem* 

9 



lo Table Linens 

in" or table runner to use on the Abbey tables is to be had 
in the same elaborate lace patterns. These lace tablecloths 
are rarely marked, as the lace and embroidery cover nearly 
all the available surface; sometimes, however, they are 
marked in little one-inch letters simply for identification 
in case of loss. 

With the fashion of serving the cocktail and relish in the 
drawing-room before dinner, and the serving of coflfee and 
cordial in the same way after dinner, the tiny cocktail and 
tea or coflfee napkins have become necessities. The former 
are six inches square, with one comer embroidered with a 
tiny strutting "Chantecler** in white or in colors, or a 
lace inset butterfly with a lace edge arotmd the napkin. 
The tea or coflfee napkins are a trifle larger, but embroidered 
and finished in the same way. With the lace cloths, the 
lace-edged napkins with one comer embroidered are used, 
and they are in what is called medium size; in fact, the 
dinner napkins now in general use are this size, as Americans 
do not seem to care for the 30-inch size popular in France. 

The plain linen damask dinner cloth, with or without 
the double satin border, still leads the fashion. Such cloths 
when oblong have four monograms or sets of initials. Two 
at the sides are placed with the tops of the letters 15 
inches from the center of the cloth, to allow for a center- 
piece 27 inches in diameter, and the end monograms 
are placed about 18 inches from each end of the table. 
The letters are from two to four inches high, according to 
fancy. The round cloth has two monograms, one at each 
end of the center. In some instances the initials appear on 
diagonal comers of the cloth and in one comer of the 
napkin, but the newest way is to mark the center of the 
napkin, folding the ends tmder to show the elaborate in- 
itials. The oblong doilies, to use for plate, glass, and butter- 
plate, are used, but are not as fashionable as the three 
separate ones for the same purpose. 

The favorite patterns seem to be the three-inch diagonal 
and length-wise stripes of satin and plain damask, with 



Table Linens ii 

conventionalized borders that are six or eight inches wide. 
One with moire satin and damask stripes four inches wide 
has a handsome Grecian border. Of the newest oflEerings 
in pattern damask there are the "ermine, " the "laurel and 
acorn," "thistle and scroll," "Celtic and block," "empire 
and block," and the floral patterns. The stems in these 
floral patterns start at the edges or ends and comers of the 
cloth. One odd cloth is of plain damask with an immense 
bunch of American Beauty roses stretching diagonally 
across the doth, tied with a satin woven bowknot. 

The beautiful lace cloths are made mostly in Germany, 
in the Black Forest, where the n^ikers are expert in the 
Weikel and mosaic drawnwork. These cloths are best 
dry-cleaned and then laid away in deeply-blued muslin 
cloth. The formal dinner cloths, like the centerpieces, 
are rolled so there are no creases, while the everyday 
cloths may be folded. 

Pour distinctly new patterns in table linens are worth 
calling attention to. One is a new version of the "rose and 
bowknot" design. The roses, large and exquisitely natural, 
are gathered in big bunches, garlanded by the satiny bow- 
knots around the cloth in irregular wreath fashion above 
the three-inch border of feathery maidenhair fern, so that 
the blooms lay upon the table top, finishing just outside the 
centerpiece. 

A new "Adams" cloth has the familiar oval medallion 
design arranged to form a prim but fascinating border that 
should set off the family silver to great advantage. A 
"Jacobean" cloth has a formal heavy architectural design 
which is quite as somber as the fiutiiture from which it is 
taken, and it makes a most formal appearing dinner cloth. 
The pattern is so arranged that it extends on to the table 
top, so that the centerpiece which is to be used with it must 
be chosen with great care to be in harmony with this dig- 
nified doth. 

A Gredan key and laurel wreath design is not nearly 
as formal as the other patterns. A new version of the 



12 Table L'inetis 

striped cloth has the broad moire pattern stripes running 
diagonally across the table with a rather severe conven- 
tionalized floral border. An odd doth has a laurel circu« 
lar band which lies upon the top of the table, and is almost 
reached by bunches of bluebells and poppies tied together 
with bowknots. 

Very attractive is the plain linen luncheon doth, which 
is hemstitched and tape bordered, with mitered hem. There 
are napkins to match this doth. One of the most attractive 
cloths has baskets of fruit swinging by ribbons from a 
wreath in the center, and bdow there is a garland of grape 
leaves with btmches of grapes depending toward the bottom 
of the doth. 

The ribbon trellis pattern should be used without a center- 
piece other than flowers. Two-inch satin stripes run from 
hem to hem each way, forming the four-inch trellis blocks. 

The tablecloth of plain damask with four-inch satin 
border is still the fashion leader. Linen men, however, all 
prophesy a dedded change in patterns in the near future, 
as Egyptian designs are promised, with the Sphinx, Ara- 
besques, dragons, and all sorts of unusual figures which will, 
for a time, cast the flowers and fruit, the ribbons and wreaths, 
even our grandmother's "snowdrop," into the shade. 

Worn tablecloths are a great tax on the housewife's 
ingenuity, for they seem to be naturally depraved and are 
always getting themselves torn in the most impossible 
places, acquiring spots without seeming provocation, and 
in almost a night showing a perforation of fine holes that 
are a problem for the finest of cobweb darners. A patched 
tabledoth is an abomination in the sight of the particular 
housekeeper, so when they wear out in the center she feels 
justified in cutting the edges up for home breakfast or serv- 
ing napkins and joyfully filling its place with a new one. 
If doths are torn beyond redemption they may be cut into 
tray cloths for everyday use. One way to mend the diffi- 
culty is to take some small Irish crochet ornaments and 
cover the holes in a spedal design which gives the doth a 



Table I^inens 13 

new lease of life. Another way is to cut away the holes the 
size of fifty-cent pieces and fill them in with an embroidered 
cobweb design. A third way is to cut out the entire worn 
center and appliqu6 a Japanese embroidered centerpiece in 
the opening, making doilies to match, and thus a most 
attractive luncheon set of the erstwhile wreck is made. 

If the year is started with six new tablecloths and they 
are used in rotation it is astonishing how long a time they 
will last, if fair care is taken in the laundering. The round 
cloths, while very pretty to use on the poptdar round tables, 
are very difficult to launder and have tiiem keep their shape 
unless they are done by an expert. 

linens Set Apart for the Veranda. Most popular for 
this use are the plain art linens, which come in many of 
the softer pastel shades, as weU as in the nut-browns and 
purples. The cloths are finished with the Grecian knotted 
fringe eight inches deep and braided about four inches, and 
they are weighted at each comer with little linen-covered 
lead weights to defy stray breezes. These can be removed 
when the cloths are latmdered. The napkins to match are 
coarsely hemstitched; some of the linens are marked with 
four-inch cross-stitch initials that are quite effective and 
are not difficult to do. 

To Take Stains from Linen. Stains on the table linen in 
the berry season are among the summer trials of the house- 
keeper. Of course the careful housewife looks out for this 
and puts away her best table linen, but even the second best 
looks much dotted with brown stains and destroys the 
dainty appearance of the summer table. One has to be 
very alert to catch the spotted pieces before they reach the 
laundry, for the moment soap and water touch them the 
damage is done. 

If the spotted portion of the linen is laid over a bowl and 
boiling water poured through it, this will remove the more 
innocent stains; but for the dark berry stains, and those 



14 Table Linens 

which do not respond to the boiling water, stretch the linen,, 
light sulphur matches beneath it and let the smoke pass 
through the stain. The sulphur fumes will remove it. 
Of course this must be carefully done, so as not to set the 
linen afire. 

An especially good way of removing peach stains is to 
put a tablespoon of flour of sulphur on an old plate, wet 
it with a few drops of alcohol, ignite it and place >a tin 
funnel over the burning heap. Have the spot in the linen 
wet with cold water, then hold it over the smoke and the 
spot will disappear at once. 

The mildew on linen, which is carelessly thrown when still 
damp into the hamper, is a' most as trjdng to the housewife 
as are the berry stains. For the mildew, rub the spots with 
yellow soap and powdered chalk; when it is dried, scrape 
it off and continue the applications tmtil the spots are 
removed. 

Ink spots are easily removed from linen by dipping the 
part stained into hot water and then spreading it smoothly 
on the back of a spoon, then pouring a few drops of oxalic 
acid or salts of sorrel over it, rubbing and rinsing in cold 
water tmtil the spots are removed. 

Many fussy housekeepers will not allow their cloths to be 
put into the boiler to boil without first being encased in a 
linen bag or an old pillow slip, for fear of iron rust getting 
upon them in some way. Javel water will remove the rust 
stains, if they are not set by soap ; put on the diluted javel 
water and lay the linen in the sun and repeat the process 
until the stains disappear. If the article has been washed 
with soap first it will be a hopeless task. 

Grass stains may be removed by wetting the green spots 
in common molasses and then putting them in the sun. 
Repeat this tmtil the spots are gone. The articles may then 
be washed. 

If one's stock of table linen is limited it is best to stick 
to pure white, even for the centerpieces, for there is nothing 
as bad as faded out glories, that tell of too frequent wash- 



Table Linens 15 

ings to which their beauty has been sacrificed. The home 
embroidered things are much more durable, and if one has 
time to do them they may be more elaborate than could be 
afforded in any other way. 

The tan table linen done in Russian and Danish patterned 
borders in colors, both in cross-stitch and outline embroid- 
ery, is very decorative; in some cases the color design is 
worked in medallions where the threads have already been 
drawn, which gives the border of the doth a lacy appearance. 
The edges of these cloths are often finished with lace of 
linen the same color as the cloth. 

Owing to the cessation of imports, particularly from 
Germany, there are not the usual varieties of colored 
damasks or the white cloths with colored borders to 
choose from though there are plenty of the Japanese 
towelings, which are being utilized for the purpose. The 
strips are herring-boned together until they are wide 
enough, then one long piece is made to form the border, 
which is hemstitched. 

Perfuming the Linen. The fancy for perfuming the 
family linen continues to grow. It was the custom in our 
grandmothers* day to lay sprays of sweet basil, lavender, a 
few rose leaves or a bunch of sweet herbs in the Unen chest 
to give it a fragrant odor. That was in the day when the 
snowy piles were all hemmed by hand and initialed during 
long evenings under the lamplight, and each piece carefully 
ntunbered so that all could be accotmted for. 

But to-day, when the chest has grown into big linen 
closets with cavernous shelves, it requires an expert to do 
the perfuming, and the cost thereof would have made those 
same grandmothers' hair rise straight up from their heads. 
But this is an extravagant generation, so why quibble over 
one small item? 

The perfumes the expert uses are the delightful, old- 
fashioned ones, such as sweet clover, lemon verbena, la- 
vender, peach leaf, and dove pink. They are made into 



1 6 Table Uneiui 

wonderful sachets of lingerie-covered silk, which are put 
into the centerpiece rolls, doily cases, napkin bags, and in 
the satin covered elastic bands which bind them. The 
blotters behind each shelf are also perfumed. 



CARE OF SILVERWARE AND CXTT GLASS 

The modem hostess who attempts to keep pace with 
the fashions of the silversmiths will have not only her hands 
but her sideboard drawers and shelves full, for of the making 
of flat ware there seems no end. Although the formal course 
dinner has been cut to half the former number of courses, 
there seems to be twice as much silver required to serve it 
with. There appears to be a spoon, fork, knife, pick or 
tongs of some sort to serve every known edible. 

However, the more conservative hostesses have decided 
that it is time to call a halt and now lay only silver enough 
for five courses or less, the rest being placed as it is needed. 
This simplifies matters and really makes the table look 
much prettier. The properly laid table in the United 
States now shows, at the right of the plate, two knives, the 
soup spoon and across them the oyster fork. At the left 
are two forks, a teaspoon and the tiny asparagus tongs; the 
butter spreader rests on the butter plate. Salad forks, 
with their broad tines, come with the salad. The game 
forks, laid with the short curved game knives, are rather 
broad and shorter than the meat forks. Cheese knives, 
that come with the cheese course, are blunt and spattdate 
in shape. The dessert knife may be used as a butter 
spreader, although often at formal dinners butter is not 
now served. 

There are spoons for every purpose, in shapes best fitted 
for what they are designed to serve. The deep, round 
bowled spoons are for bouillon, the sharp pointed bowls for 
the grapefruit, and there are the oblong dessert spoons, the 
open-work jeUy spoons and the regular teaspoons. Ice- 
cream spoons are used with the ice-cream fork. Where 

a 17 



1 8 Care of SilveriKrare and Cut Glass 

formerly, in serving from the platter, a fork and tablespoon 
did acceptable duty, now each viand has a server peculiarly 
its own. The asparagus has a large pair of broad-tined 
tongs for serving, and small tongs for individual use. 
The sliced tomatoes have a rotmd, flat pair of tongs passed 
with them, so that one may pick up one slice daintily 
at a time. The cucumber has a fork and serving spoon 
of its own; the sardine has a long slender fork; lettuce 
has a fork, while, with the sandwich tray, pretty tongs are 
passed. 

Chafing-dish silver is always especially designed for the 
purpose. There are potato chip servers, pea servers, waffle 
servers, egg servers, and ladles of all shapes and sizes for 
cream, sauces and gravies, melted butter or jelly, or for the 
popular ice-cream sauces. To be strictly in accord with 
fashion's latest decree, the dessert service of silver is gilded 
over entirely, where formerly the gold-lined bowls of the 
spoons were the thing. 

There are also a number of silver centerpieces used now- 
adays; there is the silver pheasant with spread tail, and 
the humble goose, whose wings may be pushed aside to 
show within a receptacle for salted nuts. 

Those interested in the latest fashions for the table, should 
know that silver platters and vegetable dishes have partly 
superseded those of china. Though the original cost is 
more, the durability is greater. The dainty course dishes 
vary the table enough so that one does not tire of the silver. 
Of course, the entire silver service may be used if one pre- 
fers to do away with the china altogether. Then the plates 
should be those of white Minton china, covered with silver, 
with the rim turned over the edge; or plates with silver 
filagree borders and a monogram in the center, but these 
are harder to keep dean and do not wear as well. Silver 
deposit bowls, fancy dishes, and tumblers with the 
silver deposit rims, are also designed for use with the all- 
silver service, those in rock aystal and in Bohemian glass 
being especially beautiful. 



Care of Silver^Nrare and Cut Glass 19 

Even the society habitu^ runs across new table small 
silver and dishes the use of which he is not certain of, 
and finds it a little safer to watch his hostess before 
using his own supply, for he knows that she knows 
what she purchased and the use for which the article was 
designed. 

The following things are usually eaten from the fingers in 
everyday polite society: 

Radishes, olives, salted nuts, pickles, celery, and aspara- 
gus if no little tongs are provided for it; lettuce when served 
with salt, strawberries when served with the hulls on; 
bread and butter, dry toast, muffins, biscuits, and all small 
cakes; large seeded fruits such as pears, peaches, plums, 
grapes and apricots — ^the larger fruits are usually pared and 
quartered; the dairy and English cheeses, when not too 
soft and fresh. 

An ear of sweet com may be held firmly in one hand. 
The legs and wings of birds may be taken in the fingers, but 
it is not looked upon favorably by the over particular ones. 
The sugar tongs are to be used with lump sugar, but if a 
lump of domino sugar is more than one desires it may be 
broken in the fingers. Dry cakes, bonbons, and sandwiches 
cut in fancy shapes complete the list. 

Now for the use of the fork, for the knife plays but a 
small part in the modem table usage, its duties being divided 
by the butter knife and the fruit knife, so that it leaves only 
the meat and game course for its needed presence. 

The fork is needed for all vegetables except for asparagus, 
or peas and com when served in side dishes when a spoon 
is offered; croquettes, patties, salads, fish and all shell food, 
deviled or scalloped food and chafing-dish dainties, soft 
sandwiches, pastry and cakes with soft fillings, cheeses that 
are soft, and there is an especial fork that is used for ice 
cream. 

This covers the main articles, and if the wary one will 
con over the list carefully he will not make any serious 
blunders* 



20 Care of Silver^irare and Cut Glass 

Nursery Silver. At last the silversmith has realized the 
necessity of placing suitable flat silver on the nursery table. 
The traditional knife, fork, and spoon are now made short 
and rather wide, the fork and knife being five inches in 
length, while the teaspoon is a trifle shorter, with a wide, 
deep bowl. To accompany the set, there is a shallow, small 
silver cup which is easily handled, and a small silver plate, 
dessert-plate size. This little outfit is handy, saves much 
breakage, and is just right for small, chubby hands. 

Cleaning of Silver. A word first about the cleaning 
outfit may be in order. The new silver pan requires only 
the laying of the flatware in it, to be covered with boiling 
water and allowed to remain there until the water cools. 
Then it may be dried and polished. There are a ntmiber of 
good liquids and powders on the market for cleaning pur- 
poses, but those recommended by the silversmiths and 
jewelers are perhaps the best. Chamois-covered padded 
silver boards are excellent to dean large pieces on, and the 
various brushes and chamois fork and knife cleaners are 
a necessity, if there is much cleaning to be done. There 
are three sizes in the brushes, and a spoon burnisher will 
also be found very convenient. One of the new conveni- 
ences is the glove chamois polisher; it has a glove pocket 
on the back of the chamois which gives one an excellent 
grip on it while polishing a large piece. 

When all of the large pieces are cleaned and polished 
ready to be put away for the summer, they shotdd be 
lightly smeared over with fresh lard, then wrapped in cam- 
phorated flannel and put into their cotton flannel bags, 
after which they may be stowed away in a closet or silver 
trunk for the season. When they are removed they need 
only be washed in hot soapy water, and polished with a 
chamois, and they are ready for use. Glass and china fill 
the places on the summer sideboard that the silver pieces 
occupy in the winter. Many careful housekeepers also 
put away their solid flatware for the stunmer, using plated 



Care of SilveriRrare and Cut Glass 21 

instead, which can go to the porch to be used for outdoor 
meals» where it does not need the careful handling that 
silver wotdd demand. 

Horn, celluloid, wood, and bone salad spoons and forks 
are designed for sununer use instead of the silver, and are 
also labor savers. The glass jam and jelly spoons are also 
heavy enough not to break easily in washing, and are good 
to use for outdoor feasts. Japanned wood, glass and wicker 
trajrs also are varied enough to please all fancies, and are 
very acceptable substitutes for the silver winter trays. 

These few changes will eliminate silver cleaning from the 
summer household duties, and if the same precedent is 
followed with regard to the bric-a-brac and odd decorative 
household features the housekeeper may enjoy a vacation 
at home. 

Care of Cut Glass 

Cut glass, while it is very nice to own and see glittering 
on the china closet shelves, is one of the greatest household 
cares. It is very heavy and must be stored away in a closet 
where the shelves are prepared to carry its weight safely, 
and the grooves in which it is to stand must be deep 
enough to insure its not slipping. It cannot be washed 
like ordinary ware for it scratches, and it gets dull if not 
properly polished. And it should never be rinsed under 
the nmning water, as the ever-changing temperature 
might shiver it to a thousand pieces without an instant's 
warning. 

To wash it properly use a wooden dish tub, fold a linen 
dish towel in the bottom, half fill the tub with good warm 
water to which add a quarter of a cup of ammonia, and use 
any good white soap, a soft brush, and a lintless doth. 
Rinse with fresh warm water and dry on a soft towel, and 
polish with a soft chamois or white tissue paper. 

To dean the insides of carafes and long stemmed or 
necked bottles, jugs, or pitchers, let soak with a grated raw 



22 Care of Silveirware and Cut Glass 

potato, the inside skin of an egg, or salt and lemon juice. 
Buckshot if used with great care sometimes aids in the 
removal of vinegar or wine stains. 

Every contact with grease shotdd be avoided with cut 
glass pieces, for it makes it cloudy and dull, and almost 
impossible to polish, as one may see if it is used for a butter 
dish. The brushes used in cleaning the crevices should be 
of the softest bristles, as the harsh ones would leave scratches 
that cotdd never be erased. It is really more care to look 
after and keep in order than silverware, for that accepts 
its polishing and more or less rough handling, with never a 
thought of breaking, but the glass, with the natural de- 
pravity of fragile objects, will watch for its chance and just 
break without apparent provocation and without giving 
the owner the slightest warning of its intention of so doing. 



. » 



MEASURINO TABLES 

60 drops = I teaspoon. 

3 teaspoons » I tablespoon. 

4 tablespoons ^l^ota, cup. 
S^i tablespoons = a ^ of a cup. 
8 tablespoons»a ^ of a cup. 
16 tablespoons = I cup. 

I cup = J^ pint. 

I gill = J/^ cup. 

I pint or 2 cups of granulated sugar = i pound. 

4 cups of sifted flour = i pound. 

I pint of water = I pound. 

1 pint of solid fat^ i pound. 
10 eggs si pound. 

4 gills — I pint. 

2 pints si quart. 

4 quarts^i gallon. 



8 quarts = I peck. 
4 pecks = I bushel. 
3 bushels « I sack. 



23 



FOR THE HOICB COOK'S IMPORTAIIT 

CONSIDERATION 

The absolute cleanliness of the refrigerator. Careful 
covering of milk, butter, and cheese from contaminating 
odors. The use of linen binders for covering fish, wax 
paper to cover meat, linen bags for green foods, and covered 
jars for cooked foods. 

Kitchen scales for weighing foods should be always at 
hand. Measuring cups and spoons are always a conve- 
nience. 

Long-handled forks and skimmers are a necessity in meat 
cookery. 

Kitdben scissors are needed in every kitchen. 

Zinc-covered tables with large wooden roller castors are 
convenient to move where needed at serving time. 

Wire covers are needed to cover dishes standing to cool, 
especially in warm weather. 

When buying a new garbage bucket have the inside 
painted with black enamel paint and it will not retain 
odors or coatings of grease. 



24 



PART n 



R.ecipe3 



as 



CANAPES AND RBUSHBS 

Since the serving of the canap^ at dinner has become 
so general one cannot have too many good recipes to turn 
to if doing very much dinner entertaining. The toasted 
foundation upon which the canap^ usually rests may be 
rotmd, square, diamond- or heart-shaped, but it must be 
daintily toasted and not dried down tough and hard. The 
best bread to use for the purpose is fine-grained bread 
(preferably homemade) two days old. 

The canap^ is served at table, preceding the soup. 

If an hors-d'ceuvre, or relish, is served in place of the 
canapd, it is sent to the drawing-room, with the cocktails, 
before the guests are summoned to the table. 

Owing to present-day poptilarity of the canap^ and 
relishes a number are included here before the question of 
soups is considered. 

If raw oysters or clams, on half shells or in cocktails, 
are served in place of other canapes or relishes, they are 
served at table as formerly. 

CANAPES 
Coquelle Ca2iap6 

Boil six eggs hard, chill, shell, and cut them in half 
lengthways. Take out all the yolks and put them in a little 
bowl, add to them a half saltspoon of pepper, saltspoon of 
salt, a teaspoon of Worcestershire sauce and chutney S3rrup, 
a teaspoon of tarragon vinegar, and enough olive oil to make 

27 



28 

a spreading paste. Now add a tablespoon of caviar or a 
little more if liked and spread the mixture on two tiny 
oblongs of toast for a portion, lay on top of each an egg 
white half holding an oyster that has been broiled, then 
dipped in melted butter and dusted with paprika. This 
makes six portions, with two oysters to a portion. 

Clam Canape 

Steam open enough little rotmd clams to allow five to 
each canap^. Drain them from their liquor and drop them 
into two ounces melted butter to saut^, which has in it the 
juice of half a lemon, half saltspoon of cayenne pepper, and 
a teaspoon of chopped tarragon leaves. Spread the toast 
rounds very thinly with sardine paste, drain the clams and 
lay them on top, dust with paprika, and serve while the 
dams are warm. 

Savory Canape 

Drain one small can of button mushrooms and saut6 
them in butter; drop in a bud of garlic, juice of half a lemon, 
and a teaspoon of Worcestershire sauce. When done drain 
again, chop them, and add to them three quarters of a cup 
of minced boiled chicken, mix and add enough mayonnaise 
to make a spreading paste, spread on toasted diamond- 
shaped slices, and garnish with sliced truffles. This will 
make ten canapes. 

Sardine and Grapefruit Canape 

Free one grapefruit from all skin and seeds, then allow 
it to marinate in light French dressing twenty minutes. 
Make a smooth sardine paste well seasoned and spread 
toast squares with the mixture. Drain the grapefruit^ 
spread a little on top of the canap6 and dust with paprika. 
This will make eight canap^. 



Canapes 29 

Pineapple and Fish Canap6 

Take one pound of cold boiled codfish, flake it very fine, 
and add to it a cup of grated pineapple. Add a quarter 
saltspoon of pepper, a half teaspoon of salt, enough mayon- 
naise to bind the paste, and spread on toast hearts. Gar- 
nish with olives stuffed with pimentos. This will make ten 
canap&. 

liver Canape 

Boil and chop very fine a quarter pound of calf's liver; 
add to it a quarter teaspoon of salt, a quarter saltspoon of 
pepper, juice of an onion, a teaspoon of chutney syrup, a 
teaspoon of chopped chives, and enough mayonnaise to 
make a spreading paste. By way of garnish after spread- 
ing on toast rounds use an ear of the tiny pickled French 
corn. This will make six canap^. 

India Canape 

Chop fine enough cold boiled ham to make three quar- 
ters of a cup, add to it a quarter cup of grated cheese, a 
tablespoon of chutney syrup, a little chopped red pepper, 
and a tablespoon of whipped cream. Spread on toast 
rounds and garnish with olive rings. This will make six 
canapes. 

Caviar Canape 

Allow one tablespoon of caviar and a teaspoon of grated 
onion to each canape, add quarter saltspoon of pepper, a 
little mayonnaise. Spread the toast with the mixture and 
to garnish put a hard boiled egg in the ricer and squeeze 
a little over each canape. 

Celery and Roquefort Cheese Canapi 

Wash, scrape, and cut celery stalks into two-inch pieces. 
Work one tablespoon of butter until creamy, add two 



30 Canapes 

tablespoons of xnashed Roquefort cheese, and stir until 
thoroughly blended, season highly with salt and paprika, 
mix in one tablespoon of chopped nut meats, and fill the 
inside of the celery stalks with the mixture. Serve on 
toasted fiingers of bread and garnish with sliced stuffed 
olives. 

Heart-of-Pabn Caiiap6 

The heart-of-palm comes in glass bottles, ready to spread 
upon toast rounds and serve, after garnishing with a little 
chopped red pepper. A pint jar will make twelve canap&. 

Chestnut Canap6 

' Boil, blanch, and mash one quart of chestnuts. Add to 
them a half cup of grated cheese, a half teaspoon of salt, 
a tablespoon of chutney syrup, and enough whipped cream 
to soften the mixture. Spread on toast rounds and dust 
with paprika. This is sufficient for ten canap^. 

Alligator Pear Caxiap6 

Pare, seed, and dice two alligator pears and let them mari- 
nate in French dressing for an hour. Prepare a thick 
slice of toast for each portion, hollow out the center, sprinkle 
with grated cheese, and let stand a couple of minutes in the 
oven to melt the cheese. Drain the pear and heap in the 
center of each slice of toast. Garnish with olives, stuffed 
with almonds. This will make six canap^. 

Mussel Canape 

Steam open enough mussels to allow five to each portion. 
Remove them from the shell, drain and cool, and allow them 
to marinate in French dressing to which a quarter bud of 
garlic and one anchovy have been added. Allow them to 
stand one hour, then drain; dip in a little finely chopped 
tarragon and lay on toast rounds, putting a little mustard 
mayonnaise on top of each. 



Canapes 31 

German Caxiap^ 

Cut thin slices of rye bread, remove the crusts, and cut 
into neat oblongs. Prepare one cupful of minced bologna 
sausage, one finely chopped dill pickle, one tablespoon of 
minced canned red peppers, and sufficient clarified butter 
to form a paste. Mix the ingredients well together, spread 
on the rye bread that has been lightly toasted, and cover 
the top thickly with chopped hard-boiled egg yolk, 

Anchovy Canape 

Take two teaspoons of anchovy paste and add a grated 
onion, a pepper chopped with six olives, a teaspoon of 
fried bread crumbs, and a teaspoon of cream cheese. Mix 
the ingredients thoroughly and add a few drops of French 
dressing until the paste is the proper consistency for 
spreading. Spread toast rounds thinly with the mixture 
and lay two olives, stuffed with anchovies, on top. 

Caviar Canape 

Make sufficient oblong toast rounds to serve one to each 
cover. Chop a little onion very fine, add to it a small por- 
tion of highly seasoned French dressing, spread the rounds 
thinly with the mixture and then a layer of caviar. Put 
cold boiled eggs into a ricer and sprinkle a little over the 
top of each canap6, latticing the top with thin strips of red 
pepper by way of a garnish. 

Shrimp Canap6 

Take one pint of boiled shrimp and break them into small 
pieces with a silver fork; add to them three quarters of a 
cup of bread crumbs that have been fried in butter and 
carefully drained, a quarter saltspoon of pepper, a half 
teaspoon of salt, two tablespoons of finely minced celery, a 
tablespoon of chutney syrup, a tablespoon of melted butter, 
a tablespoon of Worcestershire sauce, and two beaten eggs. 



32 Canap^ 

Fill well-buttered ramekins with the mixture, dust the top 
of each lightly with a few fine crumbs, and add a tablespoon 
of sweet cream to each. Bake twenty-five minutes and 
then set away to cool, but do not chill them. This is 
sufficient for six canap&. 

Grape Canape 

To make the grape canape, wash a bunch each of Malaga 
and red California grapes, halve and seed them, and add to 
them a teaspoon of fresh chopped red pepper, two table- 
spoons of grated fresh pineapple, a tablespoon of chutney 
syrup, and enough heavy mayonnaise made without mustard 
to bind the mixture together. Heap on thin toast rounds 
and garnish with a pimento olive. This is sufficient for 
six canapes. 

Russian Canap6 

This recipe makes two canap^. Mix a half cup of Rus- 
sian caviar with a tablespoon of grated onion, a half salt- 
spoon of paprika, a teaspoon of finely chopped red pepper, 
a teaspoon of chopped chives. Spread the mixture on 
toast rounds, and lay on top of each two small sardines that 
have marinated in olive oil and lemon juice for twenty 
minutes. 

Sardine Canape 

Cut a slice of bread for toast rather thick, trim three 
inches square, and hollow out the center. When toasted 
spread with anchovy paste, arranging sardines with truffles 
in the center, garnish with olives stuffed with the anchovy 
paste and vinegared cherries. This recipe makes one 
canap^. 

Cucumber Canape 

Slice two cucumbers thin, let them marinate twenty 
minutes in French dressing to which the juice of an onion 



Canapes 33 

has been added, drain and add two tablespoons of 
chutney syrup. Spread on toast rounds, garnish with olive 
rings and one tiny anchovy in the center of each. This 
makes six canap&. 

Cold Tomato Canape 

Place a thin slice of raw tomato on a round of bread, 
browned in oven, and spread with mayonnaise. In the 
center of the tomato place a small mound of finely chopped 
cabbage and celery moistened with French dressing. 
Sprinkle the top with chopped parsley. 

Asparagus Caiiap6 

Take one cup of cold boiled green asparagus tips, cut 
them in small pieces, add to them one tablespoon of chut- 
ney syrup, and one tablespoon of bread crumbs that have 
been fried in butter and drained; put a little of the mixture 
on each toast round, putting a generous teaspoon of mayon- 
naise on top, in the center of which place a radish rose by 
way of garnish. This will make six canapes. 

Chicken Lhrer Canape 

Boil six chicken livers with a thinly sliced onion, a 
sliced stalk of celery, three cloves, and half a bud of garlic 
until they are tender; remove, drain, and chop. Strain the 
water they were cooked in; add a lump of butter, a quarter 
saltspoon of pepper, half teaspoon of salt, two tablespoons 
of tomato ketchup, and three drops of tabasco; let it come 
to a boil and thicken with brown flour and butter rubbed 
to a cream. Chop one hard boiled egg and turn it with the 
liver into the gravy; spread the toast squares with the 
mixture, garnishing with a pimento olive. This makes 
eight canapds. 

3 



34 RelisKes 

Fiiman Haddie Caxiap6 

Soak finnan haddie in lukewarm water to cover, then set 
on the back of the range and let stand until the fish separates 
easily into flakes. Meastire the fish and to each cupful 
allow the following ingredients: Pry half a tablespoon 
of finely chopped onion and three chopped mushrooms in 
three tablespoons of butter for five minutes. Add two 
tablespoons of fiour and when this is blended in pour on 
slowly while stirring constantly two thirds of a cupful of 
milk. As soon as the boiling point is reached, add two 
tablespoons of grated chee^, the yolks of two eggs 
slightly beaten, and the finnan haddie. Season to taste 
with salt and cayenne. Cool and pile on toasted rounds of 
whole wheat bread. Sprinkle with browned bread crumbs 
and bake in a hot oven for eight minutes. Serve hot, 
garnished with bunches of crisp cress. 

Lobster Canape 

Take two cups of cold boiled lobster cut fine, one cup of 
asparagus tips, two tablespoons of bread crumbs that 
have been fried in butter and drained. A teaspoon of 
chopped tarragon leaves, one grated onion, melt one quarter 
potmd of butter, add one tablespoon of ketchup, one table- 
spoon of mustard sauce, pepper and salt to taste, and six 
chopped olives. Add all ingredients, heat well, and serve 
on toast rotmds, garnished with sliced olives and peppers. 

REUSHES 

Alligator Pear Relish 

Dice one alligator pear, mix one tablespoon of chutney 
s)rrup with the juice of a lemon, six drops of tabasco sauce, 
a teaspoon of ketchup, the same amount of Worcestershire 
sauce, and a quarter saltspoon of salt. Mix all together 
and serve in small glasses with a pimento olive on top of 



Relishes 35 

each. This is sufficient for two people and may be in- 
creased for more by following the same proportions. 

Russian Relish 

A tempting appetizer served before a dinner is made by 
taking a half cup of Russian caviar, a tablespoon of finely 
chopped onions, and a dash of paprika ; serve on toast squares 
with sardines dressed with olive oil and lemon jtiioe. This 
is quite Russian and unique enough to interest the experi- 
menter. 

Pidde Hors d'CEuTres 

Take enough dill pickles to allow one to a portion; peel 
thinly and scoop out in boat-shaped receptacles, slicing off 
a little section to make them set firmly. Fill the boats with 
a mixture of Duxbury clams, chopped with a little fresh 
shredded cabbage, chopped watercress, and a few chopped 
tarragon leaves mixed with French dressing, to which a 
little chili sauce has been added. Rest the boats on toast 
fingers. 

Pineapple Fingers 

Shred one small pineapple with a silver fork; add to it 
four tablespoons of French dressing, and allow it to marinate 
for twenty minutes. Then drain and chill. When ready 
to serve add a half cup of grated cheese and fold in a small 
cup of mayonnaise. Spread narrow toast strips with the 
mixture and pile, log-cabin fashion, on a silver plate, placing 
a small anchovy on top of each. 

Brown Bread Fingers 

Make a paste of three tablespoons of deep sea caviar, one 
grated onion, one hard-boiled egg put through the ricer, and 
enough mayonnaise to bind the mixttire. Spread brown 
bread toast fingers with the mixture, laying one raw oyster, 



36 I^elishes 

that has been marinated in French dressing for fifteen 
minutes, on top of each finger. 

Among relishes that come ready prepared in bottles and 
cans there are the Madagascar relish, a mixture of heart-of- 
palm and mayonnaise; artichokes in vinegar; p&t^-de-foie- 
gras; otero, a sour spiced mixture of fruit and pickle; 
tunny fish in tomato sauce; herring roe in oil; herring 
filets, pickled; mortadelle-de-bologne, and a number of 
others, all of which may be spread upon crackers or toast 
fingers, and eaten from the fingers when passed with the 
cocktails. 

One thing to be borne in mind when preparing relishes is 
to spread the various mixtures and pastes thinly, and not 
to allow them to be moist enough to drip. 



SOUPS 

In choosing utensils for soup-making those of the simplest 
kind will be fotind most satisfactory. An ordinary granite 
ware kettle with a tight-fitting cover answers every purpose 
and will not be affected by the various adds from the meats 
and vegetables. If one wishes to go into more expense the 
kettles having the outside copper bottoms are better owing 
to the double protection which removes the possibility of 
burning the contents and also induces slow boiling which is 
desirable for soup. An ordinary colander is needed for 
the first straining, and a pur^ sieve for finer straining, a 
large granite spoon for stirring, a long-handled fork for 
removing meat, a long-handled skimmer, a half dozen 
cheesecloth bags (these are better than flannel for they do 
not retain odors), and a granite pint cup with handle to 
add water and so on if needed. 

Soups are divided into several classes, but with the 
modem tendency towards simpler living the recognized 
dinner soup is now the thin soup, dear or with fancy gar- 
nishes, and may take the form of bouillon, consomm^, or 
any of the dear broths. The cream soups are used at 
limcheon or for a supper where they may form the only 
warm and nourishing dish. Milk soups and chowders 
make an agreeable change once in awhile but are not as 
popular as in former years. Cold and jellied soups are for 
summer use only, and are to most people things one must 
cultivate a taste for, but if liked they open a way to use 
up extra fresh fruit juice. 

Lean, juicy beef, mutton, and veal form the foundation of 
nearly all good soups, therefore it is advisable to buy the 

37 



38 Soups 

best of such pieces as the market affords. The principal 
care in making soup should be to apportion the ingredients 
right so that the flavor of one does not predominate too 
much over another. Generally a quart of water is allowed 
for one pound of meat. Bones ought always to form part of 
the ingredients of the soup pot, as the marrow is a great 
addition to the nutriment contained. K the soup meat is 
boiled simply to make stock it should be cut fine, but if it 
is to be used for the table when it is quite done, then remove 
the bone and tie the meat with kitchen tape and remove 
when done and make a rich sauce for it. This way it does 
double service. Soup should boil from two to six hours, 
according to the quantity and quality of its contents. 

Opinions differ as to the advisability of washing meat, 
but if considered best wash it as little as possible, or, better 
still, wipe it with a fresh piece of cheesecloth that has been 
wrung out of cold water. 

When the rare value of the stock pot is learned and 
appreciated in families where soups, gravies, or sauces are 
used daily there will be not only one but two such pots 
found in actual commission, one containing the red stock 
and one the white. 

SOUP STOCKS 

J- 

Red Stock 

For the making of the red stock, which is perhaps the 
most generally used, beef is the basic meat. Fresh shin 
meat is the best, though a piece of juicy round may be 
added, tied in shape with kitchen tape, and removed from 
the pot when it is done sufficiently to be used in hash or 
croquettes. The finer the bones are cracked the more 
valuable they are. They are composed of an earthy sub- 
stance to which they owe their solidity, gelatine, and fatty 
fluid or marrow, so it is necessary to crack the bones in 
order to get the richness they contain. 



Soups 39 

A fowl is an excellent addition to the stock pot in the 
way of giving it flavoring and richness. A pint of cold 
water is allowed for each pound of meat and bone; it is then 
put over the fire, where it is allowed to simmer gently, being 
carefully skimmed as the scum rises. After it has boiled 
clear and no more scum appears, add a quart can of toma- 
toesy soup vegetables carefully washed and diced, leeks, 
celery, and a half bud of garlic, two cloves, six raisins, and a 
bay leaf. Add these slowly so that the stock does not stop 
boiling entirely, add a tablespoon of salt and a half tea- 
spoon of pepper, cover tightly to prevent evaporation, and 
cook steadily four or five hotirs. One vegetable soup may 
be served from this first; then the remaining stock is allowed 
to cool. The grease is carefully removed from the top 
before the second use of the stock in any form it is needed; 
that which still remains should be careftilly strained and 
set away for further use. 

White Stock 

Cut up four pounds of knuckle of veal, one chicken, one 
slice of ham, three carrots, two onions, celery, parsley, and a 
btmch of sweet herbs, a half teaspoon of pepper, a level 
tablespoon of salt, and lump of butter, and four quarts of 
water. Simmer gently for five hours, strain carefully, and 
when cold remove every particle of grease and put away in 
a cold place to use as it is needed. 

If one is economically inclined the chicken may be re- 
moved before it falls from the bones and minced for cro* 
quettes or creamed and the bones thrown back into the 
soup. This stock will be almost if not quite rich enough 
to jelly when cold. Any liquor in which a turkey or fowl 
has been boiled added to the stock makes it much richer and 
stronger. 

If the stock for any reason, should not be perfectly dear it 
may be clarified by heating it and adding the whites of two 
stifHy beaten eggs in a half pint of water. Skim often and 



40 So\ips 

when the eggs begin to separate take the stock from the fire. 
Strain careftilly through a fine piece of cheesecloth, after 
which it should be absolutely dear. 

Fish Stock 

This stock will not keep well, so can only be made a little 
while before it is used. Cut two pounds of fresh codfish 
into small pieces, sUce two onions, two carrots, rind of half a 
lemon, add a btmch of sweet herbs, cover with two quarts 
of cold water. Let the stock boil gently for a half hour, 
then season with two saltspoons of salt and one of white 
pepper. Boil five minutes longer, strain, and when cold 
skim off the oily grease, using a little white blotting paper 
to get the last small globules. The stock is then ready to 
form the basis of any fish, 03^ter, dam, scallop, shrimp, 
lobster, or any other sort of fi^ soup, chowder, or pur^e. 

Vegetable Stock 

Vegetable stock to be of the best quality and flavor 
should be made of fresh vegetables. This does not mean 
that one should go out and buy all new materials, but it 
means using a definite system of saving by-products with 
this purpose in view. For instance, save aU outside or 
broken lettuce leaves, all outer stalks and fresh tops of 
table celery, left over spraj^ of parsley and tarragon sprays 
that may have served for garnish, and after washing them 
put into a linen lettuce bag and put them in the refrigerator 
until needed. Parings of tomatoes should be set aside in a 
covered bowl, with left-over vegetables that have not been 
creamed or strongly flavored, and water in which potatoes, 
onions, or other vegetables have been boiled may also be 
kept for the stock, providing it is to be made in a day or 
two. When ready to make the stock add a can of tomatoes 
to the vegetable water, then cut up the vegetables, and 
when all have been added put in enough cold water to fill 
the pot three quarters full, cover tightly, and boil slowly 



n 



Soups 41 

for two hours. When done strain the soup carefully, add 
salt and pepper, and when cold set away to use as required. 
This stock will keep two da3rs in summer and four or five 
in winter. 

Sottp Conserve 

Soup conserve is a very handy commodity for winter use; 
it can be made at any time by using canned tomatoes, though 
August and September is the best time to make it, when 
fresh tomatoes are plentiful and cheap. To make the con- 
serve take one gallon of tomatoes that have been washed 
and stemmed; one half gallon of very tender, green okra 
pods, well washed; and one pint of white onions, pared. 
Chop all together fine, then season with a half cup of salt, 
a level tablespoon of white pepper, two tablespoons of 
chutney syrup, two of Worcestershire sauce, and a table- 
spoon of very finely chopped tarragon leaves. Boil gently, 
stirring often until the mixture forms a rather stiff paste. 
Remove from the fire and turn into jars, and when cold, 
cover with melted paraffine. Set the jars away in a cool 
dry place. A teacup of this conserve added to a beef soup 
makes an excellent seasoning; or in an emergency two cups 
of the conserve may be adulterated with one quart of 
boiling water and be made into a quick dinner soup for 
four or six people. 

MEAT SOUPS 
Imperial Soup 

The following recipe is an unusual one, inasmuch as it 
calls for the combination of the two principal stocks, red 
and white: 

Take one pint of clear red stock, season to taste, and add 
five well beaten eggs to it; then pour the mixture into a 
well buttered pudding mold, place the mold in boiling 
water, cover so that no water boils into it, and let the 



4^ Soxips 

water boil arotind it steadily for one hour. Remove, cool 
slightly, and ttim on to a plate; have ready a quart of white 
stock melted and seasoned, then slice down the jellied red 
stock, placing a cube or slice in each plate of the dear 
soup. 



Bouillon is a clear soup which is, as a rule, served in cups 
for luncheons and suppers, teas and other social ftmctions. 
It is not considered a dinner soup. 

Take fotu: pounds of lean beef cut in pieces and put them 
in the soup kettle with three quarts of cold water. Add a 
level tablespoon of sugar, one bay leaf, one tablespoon of 
chopped carrot, a saltspoon of cayenne, two level teaspoons 
of salt, a tablespoon of onion juice, two cloves, one blade 
of mace, and a saltspoon of grated nutmeg. Allow the 
liquid to come to boiling point slowly and then simmer for 
three hours, covered cloSely. At the end of three hours 
add to the bouillon a half teaspoon of celery seed, or two 
saltspoons of celery salt, or a stalk of finely chopped celery, 
with the whites of two eggs slightly beaten with the washed 
and crushed shells. Stir the bouillon well, bring it once 
more to boiling point and boil for five minutes, then strain 
through a fine sieve, then through a double thickness of 
cheesecloth that has been wrung out of cold water, and set 
aside to cool. When cold remove every particle of fat 
that floats to the stuface, and add a few drops of kitchen 
bouquet. At this juncture it is wise to taste the bouillon 
and if it needs more salt or pepper add them to taste. The 
bouillon is now ready for use. If it is to be served hot, 
heat just the quantity needed and serve with a toasted 
crouton. Many cooks add a teaspoon of sherry to each 
cup with a tablespoon of whipped cream heaped on top. 
If the bouillon is served cold it must be well chilled, or it 
may even be jellied. Bouillon is always seasonable; and 
this recipe will yield about three and a half quarts. 



Soups 43 

Consommi 

Consomm^ is a light, clear dinner soup, and is often used 
as the basis for other soups. 

Take four pounds of shin-of-beef and a knuckle of veal, 
remove the meat from the shin, and have both bones well 
cracked; put all into the soup pot with six quarts of cold 
water. Add one large onion sliced, one carrot diced, one 
stalk of celery chopped, and simmer all gently but steadily 
for four hours. At the end of that time remove the meat 
from the soup, leaving all the rest of the ingredients. Add 
a quarter cup of salt, a level teaspoon of white pepper, and 
a half teaspoon of kitchen bouquet. Continue boiling 
for half an hour, then strain through a very fine sieve and 
then through a double thickness of cheesecloth wrung out 
of cold water. Set aside and when cold skim every particle 
of grease from the surface. The consomm^ is then ready to 
use; it may be served clear, or with any of the so-called 
soup garnishes, the recipes for the making of which will be 
found at the end of this chapter. 

Oxtail Soup 

* 

Take two oxtails, separate them, wash and put them 
into the soup pot. Dice a small slice of ham and add it 
with three sliced onions, one leek, one stalk of chopped 
celery, a bunch of sweet herbs, parsley, a bay leaf, four cloves, 
one teaspoon of pepper, a tablespoon of salt, two table- 
spoons of ketchup, and three quarts of water. Skim the 
soup carefully as it boils, and let it boil evenly for about 
fotu: hours. When done, strain and thicken slightly with a 
little butter and flour mixed to a cream. Return to the 
soup a little of the meat, which may readily be taken from 
the bones in small pieces. 

Solf erino Soup 

To two quarts of well seasoned clear bouillon add the 
dumpUngs made in this way: Beat -four eggs in a stew- 



44 Soups 

pan, add a half pint of cream, two ounces of fresh butter, 
pepper and salt to taste, and enough flour to form the 
mixture into the consistency of dough. Mold it into 
round or egg-shaped balls the size of large walnuts and fry 
them a delicate brown in butter; lay them in the bottom of 
the tureen and pour the hot bouillon over them. 

Baked Soup 

Cut one pound of bottom round in squares and put them 
in the soup pot with two sliced onions, two diced carrots, 
one ounce of rice, one pint of yellow split peas, a tablespoon 
of salt, a teaspoon of pepper, one stalk of finely minced 
celery, and four quarts of clear cold water. Cover the pot 
and place it in the oven. Allow the soup to bake for four 
hours. When removed from the oven it will be a thick 
soup which may require a little more seasoning. Serve 
with it toasted croutons. 

Potage Printanier 

Potage printanier is a popular spring soup, and it is 
made of half a pint of fresh green peas, a small bunch of 
chervil, a small bunch of fresh parsley, two heads of fresh 
lettuce shredded, two thinly sliced onions, two ounces of 
butter, the yolks of three eggs, and one pint of water, sea- 
soned to taste, and two quarts of rich beef stock. Put the 
chervil, onions, lettuce, parsley, and butter into the pint of 
water and let them simmer until tender. When done 
strain off the vegetables, leaving enough water on them 
to keep them soft and pouring the rest into the stock. 
Beat the eggs in a little pan of the water, and add it with 
the vegetables to the soup just before serving, and season 
to taste. This quantity is sufficient for eight persons. 

Soup k la Cantatrice 

Put two quarts of white stock into the soup pot and when 
it comes to boiling point add three ounces of sago that has 



Soups 45 

been washed in boiling water, add it gradually, and let the 
stock simmer for half an hour when the sago should be 
thoroughly dissolved. Beat the yolks of three eggs and 
add them to a half pint of boiling cream; add this mixture 
to the soup and remove from the fire, as the soup must not 
boil after the eggs have been added or they will curdle it. 
Put in a teaspoon of sugar, pepper, and salt to taste, and 
serve at once. This soup will take about forty minutes to 
make. It is seasonable all year; and this quantity will 
serve eight people. 

Mutton Soap 

Take five pounds of neck-of -mutton and put it in the 
soup pot with three quarts of cold water. Add three 
carrots and three turnips, diced; two onions, sliced; a small 
bunch of sweet herbs, a bunch of parsley, cut fine; a table- 
spoon of salt, and a half teaspoon of pepper. Let it come 
to boiling point, then let it simmer until the meat is tender. 
When the meat is done remove it to a dish and place where 
it will keep hot. Strain the vegetables and put them over 
the meat. Remove the grease from the soup, season a 
little bit more, and thicken slightly with a little butter and 
flour rubbed to a cream. Just before serving, a wineglass 
of sherry may be added to the soup if desired. This is 
sufficient for eight people. Send the meat and vegetables 
to table on a hot platter, garnished with toast sippets. 

Mock Turtle Soup 

Select a good, fresh calf's head, have the butcher split it 
and tmhinge the jaws, remove the tongue and brains. Wash 
and scald the head thoroughly, and place it in the soup 
pot with three quarts of cold water. Add one thinly 
sliced carrot, one onion cut in half and stuck with eight 
cloves, a small bunch of sweet herbs, a stalk of chopped 
celery, and a teaspoon of tarragon leaves. Add the tongue 
and allow all to come to boiling point, then simmer gently 



46 Soups 

until the tongue is done. When tender remove the tongue, 
skin and trim it, and throw the skin and trimmings back 
into the soup; dice the tongue and set aside until needed. 
Continue boiling tmtil the cheeks and meat about the 
head is tender; when tender remove the head and take off 
all the meat, throwing the skin and bones back into the 
soup; the meat from the head may be set aside for cro- 
quettes; or to be served with any kind of well liked sauce. 
Now add to the soup a tablespoon of chutney syrup, a 
tablespoon of Worcestershire sauce, a saltspoon of red 
pepper, a level tablespoon of salt, and continue cooking 
slowly for twenty minutes. Then strain carefully through 
a fine sieve, and then through two thicknesses of cheese- 
cloth wrung out of cold water. Set to cool and when cold 
remove every particle of grease, using white blotting paper 
to get the smallest particles. When ready to use reheat, 
add the diced tongue, a thinly sliced lemon with the seeds 
removed, and a wineglass of sherry when it comes to boiUng 
point. Serve at once. The brains may be blanched, par- 
boiled, and used for fritters. 

Pot-au-Feu 

Select one and a half pounds of bottom round, roll and 
tie, and put into the soup pot with three and a half quarts 
of clear, cold water. Add three ounces of cracked shin- 
bone, a tablespoon of salt, and let come to a boil. As soon 
as the sctun rises add a quarter of a pint of cold water and 
remove the scum with a skimmer. Repeat this process 
three times; after the third time the soup should be dear. 
Wipe the edge of the kettle with a clean cloth, and add to the 
soup two small carrots, diced; two good sized onions, thinly 
sliced; eight leeks cut in small pieces, a half cup of chopped 
celery, one clove, one white turnip, diced, and one small 
parsnip, diced. Let the soup boil up, then set aside to 
simmer for three hotn^. Remove the meat and add more 
seasoning if the soup needs it. Skim off all grease and 



Soups 47 

serve. If desired a little of the meat may be cut into small 
pieces and added to the soup, though the meat is generally 
served with a specially made gravy. This will be sufficient 
soup for six people. 

Mexican Soup 

Take four pounds of bottom round and put in the soup 
pot with four quarts of cold water. Add two large onions, 
sliced; two carrots and six potatoes, diced; one small cab- 
bage coarsely chopped; three white turnips, diced; one 
quart of string beans, broken ; and one quart of young peas 
in the pods, carefully washed. Also add com cut from six 
ears, or, a large can of com. Boil the soup until the meat 
is thoroughly done, about four hotu^. When done remove 
the meat, and strain the soup, putting the vegetables over 
the meat. Return the soup to the kettle and add to it six 
chili peppers that have been sauted in butter, two slices of 
pickled pork, diced and fried a delicate brown, and thicken 
with two tablespoons c^ browned flour mixed with two 
tablespoons of melted butter. Place the meat, sliced, 
and vegetables in the bottom of the tureen, pouring the 
soup over them. Serve very hot. This is sufficient for 
eight people. 

Petite Marmite^Soup 

Petite marmite is one of the most expensive soups on the 
bill of fare, usually costing sixty cents a plate. It may be 
purchased at one dollar a pint jar, ready for use, but it is 
much nicer to make it at home after this authentic and 
reliable recipe: Put in an earthen pot called "marmite" 
two pounds of short ribs of beef cut into two-inch-square 
pieces, six small pieces of oxtail, one two-pound fowl cut in 
pieces, and one gallon of red stock. When it has boiled 
ten minutes skim thoroughly and add half a bud of garlic, 
half a pound of carrots, a quarter pound of turnips and a 
quarter pound of leeks, all diced, one onion stuck with 



48 Soups 

cloves, and a heart of celery thinly sliced. Boil for three 
hours, then serve with toasted sliced rolls. This quantity 
will serve ten covers, or two dinners for a small family. 

Hodge-Pddge 

Put two pounds of shin-of-beef in the soup kettle with 
three quarts of water, and one pint of ale; simmer for fifteen 
minutes, then skim carefully. Add two sliced onions, two 
diced carrots, two diced white turnips, a finely chopped 
stalk of celery, a tablespoon of salt, and a saltspoon of 
pepper. Stew gently until the meat is quite tender. Re- 
move the meat, cutting a smaU quantity of it in smaU 
pieces and returning it to the soup (the rest of the meat 
may be used for croquettes). Make a thickening of butter 
and flour, and thicken the soup slightly. Serve hot. This 
quantity will serve twelve people, and the soup is season- 
able the year round. 

Scotch Mutton Broth 

Select a thick neck of mutton, wash, and cut into small 
pieces; put into the soup kettle with two quarts of cold 
water. Boil ten minutes, skim thoroughly, and add one 
sliced onion, a diced turnip and carrot, a cup of chopped 
celery, one bay leaf, a saltspoon of pepper, and a level tea- 
spoon of salt. Cover closely and cook slowly for two hours. 
Plain soup dumplings are good in this broth. 

FISH SOUPS 

Pish soups are used more by English people than Ameri- 
cans, but they make an excellent variety, especially in hot 
weather when the meat soups become too heavy and heating. 

Eel Soup 

Wash and cut into thin slices three pounds of eels, put 
them into a stewpan with two otmces of butter; let them 



Soups 49 

siinmer for ten minutes, then pour over them two quarts of 
water; add a bunch of sweet herbs, one onion, a blade of 
mace, a saltspoon of pepper, and a level teaspoon of salt; 
simmer until the eels are tender; be careful not to break the 
fish; take them out carefully and mix two tablespoons 
of flour with a quarter of a pint of cream ; bring all to a boil 
and turn over the eels; float toasted croutons on the top 
of the soup in the tureen. This is sufficient for six persons. 

Skate Soup 

Clean and filet one skate, cut the filets two inches square. 
Boil the head and trimmings of the fish with two sliced 
onions, parsley, salt and pepper, and two quarts of water; 
cook until reduced one half, then strain. Brown two ounces 
of butter, adding a little flour to thicken the soup; put in 
the filets, and after boiling fifteen minutes add a dessert- 
spoon of ketchup, and one wineglass of sherry. Season to 
taste and serve with toast squares. This will serve six 
people. 

Deep Sea Scallop Soup 

Take one quart of deep sea scallops, wash them carefully, 
dry them, and cut them in small pieces. Put two quarts of 
rich milk on the fire in a soup pot, add the cut scallops, and 
let stew tmtil the scallops are tender. Add the juice of one 
large onion, a saltspoon of celery salt, a half saltspoon of 
pepper, a level teaspoon of salt, and thicken to the thick- 
ness of cold honey, with butter and flour rubbed to a paste. 
Just before serving, add a pint of hot sweet cream. Serve 
with it tiny toast fingers. This will serve six persons. 

Small Scallop Soup 

Take one pint of fresh scallops; turn them into a pint of 
hot milk and stew for fifteen minutes. Drain and add a 
pint of hot cream to the milk with the juice of an onion, 

4 



48 Soxips 

cloves, and a heart of celery thinly sliced. Boil for three 
hours, then serve with toasted sliced rolls. This quantity 
will serve ten covers, or two dinners for a small family. 

Hodge-Podge 

Put two pounds of shin-of-beef in the soup kettle with 
three quarts of water, and one pint of ale; simmer for £f teen 
minutes, then skim carefully. Add two sliced onions, two 
diced carrots, two diced white turnips, a finely chopped 
stalk of celery, a tablespoon of salt, and a saltspoon of 
pepper. Stew gently until the meat is quite tender. Re- 
move the meat, cutting a small quantity of it in small 
pieces and returning it to the soup (the rest of the meat 
may be used for croquettes). Make a thickening of butter 
and flour, and thicken the soup slightly. Serve hot. This 
quantity will serve twelve people, and the soup is season- 
able the year round. 

Scotch Mutton Broth 

Select a thick neck of mutton, wash, and cut into small 
pieces; put into the soup kettle with two quarts of cold 
water. Boil ten minutes, skim thoroughly, and add one 
sliced onion, a diced turnip and carrot, a cup of chopped 
celery, one bay leaf, a saltspoon of pepper, and a level tea- 
spoon of salt. Cover closely and cook slowly for two hours. 
Plain soup dtunplings are good in this broth. 

FISH SOUPS 

Fish soups are used more by English people than Ameri- 
cans, but they make an excellent variety, especially in hot 
weather when the meat soups become too heavy and heating. 

Eel Soup 

Wash and cut into thin slices three pounds of eels, put 
them into a stewpan with two otmces of butter; let them 



Soups 49 

simmer for ten minutes, then pour over them two quarts of 
water; add a bunch of sweet herbs, one onion, a blade of 
mace, a saltspoon of pepper, and a level teaspoon of salt; 
simmer until the eels are tender; be careful not to break the 
fish; take them out carefully and mix two tablespoons 
of flour with a quarter of a pint of cream; bring all to aboil 
and turn over the eels; float toasted croutons on the top 
of the soup in the tureen. This is sufficient for six persons. 

Skate Soup 

Clean and filet one skate, cut the filets two inches square. 
Boil the head and trimmings of the fish with two sliced 
onions, parsley, salt and pepper, and two quarts of water; 
cook tmtil reduced one half, then strain. Brown two ounces 
of butter, adding a little flour to thicken the soup; put in 
the filets, and after boiling fifteen minutes add a dessert- 
spoon of ketchup, and one wineglass of sherry. Season to 
taste and serve with toast squares. This will serve six 
people. 

Deep Sea Scallop Soup 

Take one quart of deep sea scallops, wash them carefully, 
dry them, and cut them in small pieces. Put two quarts of 
rich milk on the fire in a soup pot, add the cut scallops, and 
let stew until the scallops are tender. Add the juice of one 
large onion, a saltspoon of celery salt, a half saltspoon of 
pepper, a level teaspoon of salt, and thicken to the thick- 
ness of cold honey, with butter and floiu* rubbed to a paste. 
Just before serving, add a pint of hot sweet cream. Serve 
with it tiny toast fingers. This will serve six persons. 

Small Scallop Soup 

Take one pint of fresh scallops; turn them into a pint of 
hot milk and stew for fifteen minutes. Drain and add a 
pint of hot cream to the milk with the juice of an onion, 

4 



50 Soups 

a quarter saltspoon of pepper, a level teaspoon of salt, and 
four drops of tabasco; thicken slightly with butter and 
flour rubbed to a cream; return the scallops to the soup; 
add a tablespoon of finely chopped parsley and serve with 
toasted croutons. This will serve six persons. 

Crab Meat Soup 

To one quart of fish stock add three quarters of a pound of 
fresh crab meat, a half cup of dry bread crumbs that have 
been fried in butter and well drained, a saltspoon of pepper, 
a level teaspoon of salt, and a dessertspoon of chutney 
S3mip. Dissolve a tablespoon of cornstarch in half a cup 
of milk; add it to the soup. When the soup boils up add a 
cup of sweet cream and serve at once. This will serve six 
people. 

Oyster Soup 

Scald twenty-five oysters in their own liquor; when the 
beards curl remove the oysters. Add to the Uquor a cup of 
dear water. Make a thickening of one tablespoon of 
butter and flour, dilute it with a little of the oyster liquor, 
and add it to a large cupful of boiling cream. Mix this 
smoothly with the remaining oyster liquor, add the oysters, 
a half saltspoon of pepper, the same quantity of salt, and 
let all heat, but the soup must not boil. Wipe the inside 
of the tureen with a bud of garlic, turn in the soup, and 
serve. This will be sufficient for six people. 

Plain Oyster Soup 

Drain the liquor from one quart of oysters and add to it 
an equal amount of milk, a tablespoon of butter, a salt- 
spoon of salt, and half the quantity of pepper. When this 
mixture boils up add the oysters, which have been care- 
fully wiped dry. Let the soup cook three minutes, when it 
is ready to serve. It is wise to make this soup in a double 
boiler, for milk burns quickly. This is sufficient for six people. 



Soups 51 

Clam Soup 

Select twenty-five round clams, wash carefully, and pour 
over them, in a saucepan, one pint of water; steam them 
open and let them steam ten minutes. Remove the clams 
from the shells, chop them, and drain all the liquor back into 
the saucepan. Strain the liquor through a piece of cheese- 
cloth wrung out of cold water to remove all sediment. 
Heat in a double boiler one quart of milk, add the hot 
clam juice to it, and thicken very slightly with a half table- 
spoon of butter and a half tablespoon of flour rubbed to a 
cream. Add the dams; and season the soup with a salt- 
spoon of salt and a half saltspoon of pepper. Serve at 
once. This is sufficient for six people and may be prepared 
in half an hour. 

Bouillabaisse 

Have fileted six pounds of fish, two of cod, two of had- 
dock, and two of halibut; put them in the soup kettle with 
three and a half pints of water, two cloves, three thinly 
sliced onions, a tablespoon of chopped parsley, a half a 
bud of garlic, three chopped shalots, two diced carrots, one 
bimch of sweet herbs, a teaspoon of salt, a saltspoon of 
pepper, a saltspoon of allspice, and a bay leaf. Cover the 
pot closely and boil for twenty-five minutes. Carefully 
remove the fish with a skimmer, drain, and remove any 
pieces of vegetable that adhere to it. Then lay the fish 
in a dish covered with a napkin. Add to the soup a tea- 
spoon of powdered saffron and strain the soup into the 
tureen. Serve the fish at the same time as the soup, with 
sippets of fried bread. This soup will take one hour to 
prepare and is sufficient for six persons. 

Lobster Soup 

Wash one good-sized lobster, then pltmge it into three quarts 
of boiling water and let it boil for twenty-five minutes. 



52 Soups 

Remove, cool, and pick out the meat. Throw the empty 
shells back into the water, first cracking the small daws. 
Dice the meat of the tail and large claws, and set the meat 
aside. The small pieces of meat from the body put back 
into the stock with a thinly sliced onion, a cup of chopped 
celery, and a bunch of sweet herbs. Boil tmtil the liquid 
is reduced one half. Then strain very careftilly, through 
sieve and cheesecloth, season to taste with pepper, salt, and 
a tablespoon of Worcestershire sauce. Mix to a cream a 
tablespoon each of butter and flour, and thicken with it one 
pint of boiling cream. Add this slowly to the hot lobster 
stock and when thoroughly mixed add also the diced 
lobster. Pour over a round of toasted bread in the center 
of each soup plate allowing a small portion of lobster to 
each plate. This is sufficient for six people and will take an 
hour or more to make. 

Clam Bouilloiii or Broth 

Wash thoroughly fifty round clams and steam them in a 
pint and a half of clear, cold water. When done remove 
the clams from the shells, draining all liquor back into the 
saucepan. Strain the liquor carefully when it is ready for 
use, with the addition of such seasoning as is liked. The 
clams may be used in patties, fritters, be scalloped or 
creamed. 

Salmon Soup 

Take one pound of freshly boiled salmon, remove all 
skin and bone, and flake; or use one can of salmon, carefully 
drained, boned, skinned, and flaked. T^ake one quart of 
the water the salmon was boiled in, a quart of dear water if 
canned salmon is used, and add to it the skin and bones of 
the salmon, one sliced onion, a chopped stalk of celery, one 
clove, one slice of lemon, one tablespoon of chutney syrup, 
and a small bunch of sweet herbs. Boil all gently for 
twenty minutes, then strain. Have ready one pint of 



Soups 53 

boiling cream, thicken it with a tablespoon of flour and a 
tablespoon of butter rubbed to a cream, and slowly add the 
salmon stock to it. When hot add the salmon, and pepper 
and salt to taste. Serve at once with toasted croutons. 
This is sufficient for six people and takes about an hour to 
prepare. It is seasonable all year. 

Shrimp Bisqu6 

Shell and break in pieces one quart of freshly boiled 
shrimp. Take one quart of fish stock, heat, and when 
hot add to it a pint of hot cream, the shrimp, and seasoning 
to taste. Let all come to boiling point and serve. The 
stock may be prepared in the morning, after the recipe 
previously given, and the soup may be prepared in half 
an hour; it is sufficient for six people. 

Green Turtle Soup 

This soup is rather expensive and is a great deal of 
trouble to make. For a private family a ten- or fifteen- 
pound turtle will be large enough. The day before making 
the soup cut its head off with a sharp knife and hang it 
up by the tail to bleed. In the morning separate the upper 
from the lower shell with a sharp knife, being very careful 
not to cut the gall bladder. Cut the meat from the breast 
in thick slices, then remove gall and the entrails. Detach 
the fins and remove the green fat and set it aside with the 
breast meat. Put the shells into the soup pot with three 
quarts of cold water, and simmer gently until the bones 
may be easily removed. Strain the water off the shells and 
place it in another pot with the head, liver, heart, and all 
the other flesh, a half pound of lean ham, a bimch of sweet 
herbs, a bay leaf, one onion stuck with cloves, a tablespoon 
of chopped tarragon leaves and the same amount of parsley. 
Cook all gently until the meat is done, then strain the 
mixture; dice the meat and return it to the soup. In a 
separate saucepan saut^ in four ounces of butter a chopped 



54 Soups 

onion, add to it a pint of madeira wine, and let it come to 
boiling point. Add this to the soup and thicken slightly 
with smoothly mixed browned flour. At serving time add 
two hard-boiled eggs chopped fine, juice of two lemons, 
and another cup of the wine. When all is hot serve. 

Lobster BisquS 

One can of lobster, two cups of milk, three pints of 
boiling water, one tablespoon of butter, one half cup 
fine cracker crumbs, salt and pepper. Chop the lobster 
rather coarsely, taking care not to tear it. Put boiling 
water, salt, pepper, and lobster into a saucepan and cook 
gently forty minutes. Have ready scalded milk in which 
the crumbs have soaked twenty minutes. Stir in butter, then 
milk and crumbs ; set in hot water for five minutes and serve. 

Lobster Pur£e 

Boil two fresh lobsters and when cold remove from 
their shells. Use all the pickings of the body, legs, and 
the two big blunt claws, chopping or mashing the meat 
fine and placing it in a quart of cold water with a bunch 
of chopped fine herbs, a stalk of chopped celery, a diced 
carrot and one potato, a grated onion, one tomato, and a 
half bud of garlic; let this boil gently for one hour, add pepper 
and salt to taste. Strain when done, add one pint of hot 
milk and a half pint of cream, thicken with butter and 
flour rubbed to a cream, and add the finely minced tails 
and big claws, then a tablespoon of ketchup and a dash 
more pepper and salt if needed. Serve with crisp finger 
rolls. 

CHOWDERS 

Iiiarflia Washington Chowder 

Cut several slices of pickled pork very thin and try them 
out dry in the chowder pot. Then put on top of the pork a 



Soups 55 

layer of sliced codfish, then a layer of thinly sliced onions 
and thickly sliced potatoes, then another layer of the 
fish, then a layer of onions and potatoes, putting plenty of 
pepper and salt between each layer. Next split some hard 
crackers, dip them in water, and put them around the sides 
of the pot and over the top of the chowder. Then turn in 
cold water enough just to cover the chowder and set on the 
fire. Stew evenly for half an hour until the potatoes are 
done and then add a gill of melted butter and a cup of sweet 
cream and it is ready to serve. This should be sufficient 
for six people. 

Snapper Chowder 

Place a layer of thinly sliced pickled pork on the bottom 
of the chowder kettle and lay on it three slices of red snapper 
cut half an inch thick, then a layer of potatoes sliced half 
an inch thick, one thinly sliced onion, dusting of pepper 
and salt, and little lumps of butter; then another layer of 
fish, then potatoes, onion, and seasoning with plenty of 
butter. Put in one pint of sweet milk, one pint of water, 
and a half teaspoon of hot Southern sauce. After the 
chowder has boiled gently for twenty minutes add six 
hardtack crackers or pilot biscuit, and just before it is done 
add a cup of cream in which an egg has been beaten; let it 
boil up once and serve. This should serve eight people. 

Maryland Chowder 

Take one pound of salt pork, cut into strips, and soak it in 
hot water for five minutes. Put a layer of this pork in the 
bottom of the chowder pot. Then cut foiu* pounds of 
codfish or sea bass into pieces two inches square and put a 
layer of these over the pork; next a layer of chopped onions 
seasoned with summer savory, and a dusting of pepper and 
salt. On top of the onions put a layer of split crackers that 
have been buttered; then another layer of the pork, and so 
on tmtil the materials are used up. Pour in barely enough 



5^ Soups 

water to reach to the top of the fish, cover and stew gently 
for one hour, being careftd the water does not sink below 
the upper layer. If it does, replenish carefully with a little 
boiling water. When the chowder is thoroughly done take 
it out with a perforated skimmer and put it into a tureen, 
add a little cream to the gravy, and thicken it with a little 
butter and flour rubbed to a cream. Boil it up and pour 
over the chowder. Serve sliced lemon, pidde, or stewed 
tomatoes with the chowder. 

New England Clam Chowder 

Place in the bottom of the chowder kettle slices of pickled 
pork and allow the kettle to get hot enough to melt and 
start the pork to cooking. Then cover the pork with a 
layer of soft clams. Next put in a layer of thinly sliced 
potatoes, then a layer of thinly sliced onions sprinkled with 
pepper; then cover with hardtack that has been buttered. 
Next put in another layer of clams, then potatoes, onions, 
pepper, and buttered hardtack, and so on until the materials 
are used. Butter extra hardtack enough to lay around 
the edge and then turn over it the clam juice and enough 
sweet milk barely to cover the chowder. Cover and cook 
gently for one hour, seeing that it does not boil below the 
top. If it does add a little hot milk. When ready to serve 
turn a cup of hot cream over it. 

Fish Chowder for Ei 



Boil, mash, and pass through a colander six potatoes. 
SUce and fry brown six onions, soak quite soft two ship 
biscuits, dice and fry four slices of salt pork. Cut two or 
three pounds of cod, sea bass, or blackfish (whichever are at 
their best) into inch-thick pieces and proceed as follows: — 
Put four tablespoons of butter in the pot with two of 
salt, then put in the ingredients in layers, freeing the fish 
from the bones, and season with a teaspoon of black 
pepper, half a teaspoon of grated nutmeg, half a tea- 



Soups 57 

spoon of cloves, and a bouquet of thyme. Then pour in 
fish stock enough to cover all about four inches. Place on 
the fire and then add the biscuit and pork, also three table- 
spoons of chopped parsley. Cook slowly one hour. Add the 
juice of a lemon, and five Itmips of sugar. When ready to 
serve it, add a tumbler of good sherry. 

Lobster Chowder 

Lay in the bottom of the chowder saucepan on the rack 
three medium slices of pickled pork, then a one-inch slice 
of fresh cod, then a layer of sliced potato and a grated onion, 
a dusting of pepper and salt, and little lumps of butter, a 
layer of pilot crackers, then one of cold boiled lobster cut 
into small pieces, another of pilot crackers, then a layer of 
the cod, and proceed in this way, making the lobster the last 
layer, with plenty of butter and a dtisting of pepper and 
salt over the top. Potir over a pint of milk, adding just 
enough water to cover all, and boil for forty minutes, slowly 
but steadily. Just before serving add a half pint of hot 
cream. Have ready a tablespoon of chopped parsley and 
a finely chopped red pepper; sprinkle a teaspoon over 
each portion as it is served. 

Fish and Ojrster Pie, an English Chowder 

Take two pounds of cold boiled codfish. Free it from 
skin and bones and put a layer in the bottom of a well 
buttered baking dish. Then put in a layer of oysters on 
top of the fish with pepper, salt, and a layer of bread crumbs, 
and proceed in this way until the dish is full. Dust the 
top with a grating of nutmeg and one teaspoon of finely 
chopped parsley. Lattice the top with strips of pie crust, 
making one a Uttle heavier which is put around the edge of 
the dish to act as a seal. Before putting on the top pour 
in a little melted butter, the oyster juice, and a cup of 
cream or thin white sauce. Bake from a half to three 
quarters of an hour. 



58 So\ip8 

Beefsteak Chowder 

Cut a slice of salt pork into small bits, with one onion 
minced fine; cook until a nice brown; add one quart of 
boiling water, let simmer five minutes, then add one pound 
round steak cut into strips one half inch thick and two 
inches long; bring this quickly to a boil, then simmer until 
the meat is tender; add four or five pared and sliced pota- 
toes, season with salt and pepper, add more boiling water, 
and when potatoes are tender add one and one half cupfuls 
of good rich milk or cream; split six or eight crackers, put 
into a soup dish, and pour the chowder over them, serving 
at once. 

Com Chowder 

Dice two slices of fresh pickled pork, heat until they 
begin to fry in the bottom of the chowder kettle, then add 
one large sliced onion, six sliced potatoes, and the com cut 
from twelve ears; also add a level tablespoon of salt and a 
level teaspoon of pepper, and cover the mixture with clear 
cold water. Boil for thirty minutes, then add six pilot 
crackers that have been buttered on each side, boil all 
fifteen minutes more, add a tablespoon of sugar and one 
cup of hot cream. This will be sufficient for six people. 

Potato Chowder 

Dice six good-sized potatoes. Dice a quarter pound of 
pickled pork, and slice one onion thin. Put the onion and 
pork into a frying pan and fry a delicate brown. Put into the 
chowder kettle a layer of potatoes, then a layer of onions 
and pork, sprinkle with a little salt, pepper, and chopped 
parsley; repeating in layers tmtil the potatoes are used up. 
Pour over the grease the pork and onion were fried in, and 
add one pint of water. Cover and simmer for twenty 
minutes. Mix one tablespoon of butter and one of flour to 
a cream. Heat one pint of milk, or light cream, hot; 



Soups 59 

thicken it with the butter and flottr, then stir it into the 
chowder, being careful not to break the potato dice. Serve 
very hot. This is sufficient for six people. 

POULTRY AND GAME SOUPS 

Bouillon 



Select a short, thick, tender fowl; cut it in pieces after 
washing, drawing, and singeing, and put in the soup pot 
with two quarts of cold water, a half cup of chopped celery 
tops, a blade of mace, a teaspoon of sugar, a saltspoon of 
pepper, and a teaspoon of salt. Cover the kettle; bring to 
boiling point and skim carefully. Simmer gently for two 
hours and a half. At the end of that time remove the 
chicken from the soup, strip the meat from the bones, 
throwing bones and skin back into the soup. The white 
meat may be set away for salad; the dark meat may be 
creamed. Let the soup simmer for half an hour longer, 
then add to it the beaten whites and shell of two eggs; 
bring once more to boiling point, then strain. When cold 
remove every particle of grease, and heat as needed. This 
recipe should make a little more than two quarts of bouillon. 
It may be more highly seasoned, if desired, as it is used. 

Soup H la Reine 

Select one four-and-a-half-pound fowl, have it cleaned 
and jointed, and put it on to cook in two quarts of white 
stock. After cooking for one hotir take out the chicken and 
remove the bones, then pound the meat with one ounce of 
sweet almonds in a mortar very fine. When well beaten 
put back into the stock with the crumb of two French rolls. 
Let simmer one hour, then rub through a fine sieve and add 
a half pint of hot cream, a teaspoon of sugar, a teaspoon of 
salt, and a saltspoon of pepper. Serve hot. If the soup 
is to be warmed over do it in a double boiler, for then the 
delicacy of the soup is not lost. This is sufficient for eight 
persons. 



6o Soups 

Duck Giblet Soup 

Take three sets of duck or goose giblets, scald and cut in 
small pieces, put in a stewpan with an oxtail, a two-potmd 
soup bone from shin of beef, one shank of mutton, gener- 
ous bunch of soup greens, and allow them all to simmer 
in three quarts of water until the giblets are tender. When 
finished take them out and lay them in the bottom of the 
ttu'een, strain the soup, season, and thicken slightly with 
butter and flour mixed to a cream, and potu* over the giblets, 
adding a cup of port wine and two tablespoons of mush- 
room ketchup. 

Chicken Giblet Soup 

Scald three sets of chicken giblets and cut the gizzards 
into small pieces; put them in a soup pot with an oxtail, 
small shin of beef, and a finely cut up soup bunch, with an 
extra onion added. Add three quarts of water, boil until 
the giblets are tender, then take them out, lay them in the 
ttu'een, strain the soup, and thicken it with a little butter 
and flour; add a wineglass of port wine and pour over the 
giblets and serve. 

MuUagatawny Soup 

Slice six onions thin and brown them in butter, lay four 
slices of bacon in the stewpan, * and lay a jointed fowl on 
them to brown quickly. When brown add the onions, two 
quarts of stock, a teaspoon of salt, and a saltspoon of pepper, 
and let cook tmtil the meat is tender. When the meat is 
done rub together one ounce of sweet almonds that have 
been potmded, and a tablespoon of curry powder with a 
little of the stock; add this to the soup with a tablespoon of 
chutney syrup and serve with a spoon of boiled rice in each 
dish. The chicken when done is usually stripped from the 
bones, cut fine, and put back into the soup, but it may be 
removed entirely if desired. 



Soups 6i 

Pheasant Soup 

Joint two pheasants, dice two slices of ham, flour them» 
and braise them in butter until they are a nice brown. 
Then put them into a stewpan with three quarts of stock, 
two sliced onions, a half btmch chopped celery, a teaspoon 
of salt, and a saltspoon of pepper, and simmer for two 
hours. Strain the soup and pour it over the crumb of two 
French rolls and the diced breast meat. Add two hard- 
boiled eggs sliced and serve. 

Chili-Con-Came (Mexican Heavy Soup) 

Cut in squares a half pound of lean beef, a quarter pound 
of veal, and a quarter pound of pork. Strip the meat from 
the bones of a two-and-a-half-pound chicken. (The chicken 
bones may be added to the stock pot.) Put the meats 
together in a stewpan with two chopped onions, four 
chopped pimentos, one quart of canned red kidney beans 
that have been passed through a sieve. Heat in a pan one 
ounce of butter, two tablespoons of olive oil, and a gill 
of tomato sauce, and when melted together turn over the 
mixture. Put all into a buttered baking dish, dust the top 
with white pepper, cover, and cook one hour. When done 
turn over an ounce of melted butter and serve at once. 
At Mexican dinners there are two soups usually served, a 
thick one and a thin one; the latter is generally made of 
cereal or fruit delicately flavored, while the heavy soup is 
hearty and very highly seasoned. 

Brofh Royale 

Wash and cut fine one three-stalk bunch of celery and 
put it in the soup kettle with a sliced onion, two bay leaves, 
two cloves, five quarts of chicken broth, and six pair of 
chicken feet skinned and cracked. Season with a tablespoon 
of salt and a teaspoon of pepper, and let cook gently for two 
hours. Strain the broth through a napkin, into another 



62 Soups 

saucepan, let it come to a boil, and sprinkle in two ounces 
of tapioca, stirring while adding it, and let boil ten minutes; 
it will then be ready to serve. 

Belgian Pigeon Soup 

Clean, cut up, and fry three pigeons, remove the breast 
meat and cut into squares, throwing the rest into two 
quarts of white stock with the bones, one ounce of chopped 
ham, and one small minced onion. Thicken slightly with 
butter and flour creamed together, strain, add the diced 
meat, and one cup of boiled peas and a glass of white wine. 
Serve with toasted croutons. 

Turkey Soup 

Take the remains of a roast turkey, bones and all, and put 
them into two quarts of white stock. Let them cook, 
adding a stalk of celery and an onion, tmtil the bones are 
clean, then strain and set aside. Remove all grease as it 
arises; when dear, return it to the soup kettle, and, when 
hot, season with a tablespoon of Worcestershire sauce, a 
tablespoon of mushroom ketchup, a saltspoon of pepper, and 
a tablespoon of salt, and thicken with two ounces of rice 
flour or arrowroot that has been mixed smooth with a little 
of the soup. 

Rabbit Soup 

Take one good sized rabbit, skin and dean it, wash, and 
cut into pieces. Fry one sliced onion in two tablespoons of 
butter; when a golden brown add the rabbit, each piece 
dipped in floiu*. Cover dosely for five minutes, then add 
one pint of boiling water and one quart of hot red stock 
that is well seasoned. Cover again and allow all to simmer 
gently for one hour, seasoning to taste. Remove the rabbit 
pieces, strip the meat from the bones, and cut into dice. 
Return the dice to the soup with two hard-boiled eggs 



63 

diced, four cloves, one thinly sliced lemon, and a wine 
glass of madeira wine. Serve at once. This is sufficient 
for eight people. 

VEGETABLE SOUPS 

Soups made of vegetables, while more trouble to prepare 
than meat soups, require less time in the cooking. The 
fresher the vegetables and the better their quality, the 
more perfect will be the soups made from them. All 
vegetables should be c^eftilly washed and looked over to 
see that no dirt or insects are lodged in the leaves; also to 
make sure that no fertilizer or spraying mixture remains. 
In seasoning vegetable soups, though the quantities of salt 
and pepper are usually given, it is always safer to taste 
the soup, as vegetables at different stages of maturity give 
off different degrees of salts and adds. 

Vegetable Soup 

To three pints of red stock add one pint bottle of mac^- 
doine vegetables, after draining, one grated onion, one cup 
of finely chopped celery; season the soup to taste after it has 
boiled forty minutes. Serve hot with the vegetables in it. 
This will serve six people. If one has time a fresh soup 
btmch, containing all the vegetables, may be washed and 
diced into the stock in place of the mac^doine vegetables. 
In this case the soup will have to cook gently but evenly 
for a full hour. 

Pea Soup 

Take one cup of yellow split peas, wash carefully, and 
put on to cook in a three-quart pitkin with two quarts and a 
pint of water. Slice thinly one large onion and add with 
two slices of diced pickled pork. Cover and cook slowly 
for four hours, stirring occasionally. Add a teaspoon of 
salt and a saltspoon of pepper. If the soup boils too thick 
a little more water may be added. Taste before serving 



64 

for more seasoning may be needed. Just before sending 
to table a gill of hot cream may be added, though it is not 
necessary. 

Green peas may be used in the same way, though gener- 
ally if they are used the soup is thinned to the consistency 
of heavy cream by the addition of a cup of hot milk. 

Fresh Asparagus Soup 

Wash and boil one btmch of green asparagus tmtil very 
tender. Drain but save a pint of the water. Rub through 
a pur^ sieve, add the water and one cup of hot, rich milk, 
a lump of butter, a quarter saltspoon of pepper, a half tea- 
spoon of salt, and thicken slightly with butter and flour 
mixed to a paste. Just before serving add a cup of hot 
cream and pour over toast sippets in the bottom of the 
tureen. Chop enough tarragon leaves to make a table- 
spoon, and sprinkle over the top of the soup. 

Canned Asparagus Soup 

Take one can of asparagus tips, cut the tips one inch 
long, and stew fifteen minutes in clear water. Take the 
ends and add with a soup btmch consisting of parsley, one 
onion, one carrot, and a stalk of celery, to one pint of white 
stock. Boil until flavor is extracted from the vegetables, 
strain and add to one quart of heated milk, thicken with 
two tablespoons of flour and one tablespoon of butter, 
which have been molded together, add seasoning, the tips 
drained out of the water, and serve with toasted bread 
squares. 

Artichoke (Jerusalem) Soup 

Put three slices of lean bacon into a stewpan with four 
ounces of butter, half a bunch of celery, one onion, one 
turnip, all cut fine, and braise them a quarter of an hour, 
keeping them well stirred. Wash and pare fotu' pounds of 



Soups 65 

artichokes, add them to one pint of white stock. When 
these have stewed down to a pulp, add two quarts of white 
stock, a teaspoon of sugar, a quarter saltspoon of pepper, 
and a half teaspoon of salt, simmer five minutes, and strain. 
Pour back into the pan and simmer five minutes more. 
Add a half pint of boiling cream, and serve with ^ppets 
of bread fried in butter. 

Cucumber Soup 

Pare, quarter, and remove the seeds from two cucumbers, 
cut in thick slices, and cover with boiling water to draw 
out the poison. Let them stand ten minutes, then have 
ready two quarts of white stock, add the cucumbers, and 
boil slowly tmtil very tender, adding a bunch of sweet 
herbs. Strain and season and add a gill of cream, in 
which two eggs have been well beaten. Serve at once with 
toast sippets. 

Ftesh Com Soup 

Split the grains of one dozen ears of com, then scrape them 
down with the back of a knife. Throw the cobs into the 
saucepan with enough water to cover them and let them 
boil ten minutes; then strain the water, saving one quart. 
Add to it slowly one quart of cream, then the com; let it 
come to the boiling point, then boil slowly fifteen minutes, 
add a quarter saltspoon of pepper, a half teaspoon of salt, 
a tablespoon of sugar, and thicken to the consistency of 
cold honey with a little butter and flour rubbed to a paste. 
Serve at once. 

Creole Gumbo 

Creole gtmibo is made by adding to three tablespoons of 

melted butter one pepper, two onions, half a cup of raw 

ham, and half a cup of raw veal. Chop all very fine and, 

stirring well, cook for six minutes; then add two quarts of 

5 



66 Soups 

hot stock and salt and pepper to taste, cooking it for thirty 
minutes. Skim well and add one tablespoon of rice, cover, 
and boil twenty minutes; then add twelve well trimmed 
and sliced okras, two sliced tomatoes, and one and a half 
teaspoons of Worcestershire sauce. Boil for thirty minutes, 
skim, and serve in hot tureen. 

Cliantilly Soup 

Boil tmtil tender one quart (or two cans) of green peas. 
Add to the peas a sliced onion and a bunch of parsley. 
Have ready two quarts of white stock at boiling point, put 
the peas through a purde sieve, and add with the seasoning 
to the soup. Do not let the soup boil after adding the 
peas or it will injure the color. 

Fresh Pea Soup 

Shell two quarts of fresh peas and put them in a stew- 
pan, cover with water, and boil tmtil they are very tender; 
then drain them, saving a cup of the water they were 
boiled in, and rub them through a ptu^e sieve. Take a 
tablespoon of butter, a saltspoon of pepper, salt to taste, 
and a teaspoon of sugar, moisten with a little of the water, 
and mix to a smooth paste; then add slowly, stirring all the 
time, one pint of hot cream. If the soup seems too thick, 
heat the rest of the cup of water and add it. Have ready 
little croutons that have been toasted in the oven to serve 
with the soup. 

Parsnip Soup 

For parsnip soup, pare and slice six parsnips of medium 
size. Melt in a stewpan three otmces of butter, add the 
parsnips, pepper and salt to taste, and stew until they are 
tender. If they absorb the butter too rapidly add a half 
cup of beef stock. When they are tender add a pint of 



Soups 67 

stock and boil together for half an hour. Pass through a 
sieve, add a pint more stock, boil and season, thicken 
slightly, and add a tablespoon of tomato ketchup, pepper, 
salt, a tablespoon of sugar, and a tablespoon of chutney 
sauce. Let cook three minutes, then strain. When cold, 
remove all particles of grease and serve with a teaspoon 
of finely chopped cold boiled carrot in each cup. 

Scottish Soup 

For eight persons, use a good sized leek, trim and wash it 
and cut it into Julienne pieces one inch long; saut^ in butter 
until it is a delicate brown, then add three pints of water, salt 
and pepper to taste, one quart of potatoes, washed, pared, 
and diced, and a third of a cup of pearl barley. Let all 
cook slowly together for two hours. Just before serving, 
thicken slightly with two otmces of melted butter and flour 
rubbed to a cream. Serve very hot with toast squares. 

Lentil Soup 

Boil a half pound of lentils in three pints of water, add 
two cups of potatoes cut into sma.11 dice, the juice of one 
onion, salt and pepper to taste; when the potatoes are done, 
thicken with browned flour stirred in cold water enough to 
make a thin batter. 

Sorrel Soup 

Take a handful of sorrel, saut^ it ten minutes in a spoonful 
of fresh butter, add a quart of water, a half teaspoon of 
salt, a saltspoon of pepper, and simmer half an hour over a 
slow fire. Stir in white of an egg, cook two minutes, 
stirring constantly. Rub in a cup the yolk of an egg with 
a small piece of butter, add a cup of cream, and stir all 
together. Cover the bottom of the tureen with toast 
squares. When ready to serve pour in the soup and sprinkle 
a little finely chopped chervil over the top. 



68 Soups 

Okra Soup 

For the soup take one can of tomatoes or one pound of 
fresh tomatoes and one potmd of okra, which must be care- 
fully washed and cut into slices. Take also one sliced onion, 
one bud of garlic, two tablespoons of chopped parsley, and one 
quart and a half of chicken broth and one slice of pickled 
pork diced. Cover the soup pot closely and boil until the 
okra is thoroughly done. Season and add one cup of hot 
cream just before serving. Serve all the vegetables in the 
soup. 

Onion Soup 

Cut up four large onions and brown them in six ounces 
of butter for two minutes; add a half teaspoon of salt, 
quarter saltspoon of cayenne, and a quart of stock; cook 
slowly one hotu*, then add a large cup of hot milk with two 
beaten eggs and stir in quickly. Lay in the bottom of 
the tureen toasted bread squares sifted with Parmesan 
cheese and turn the soup over them. 

Potato Soup 

Cut six large white potatoes into small cubes and throw 
them into cold water. Wash carefully a complete soup 
bunch of all the needed greens; cut it fine, and add one can 
of mushrooms, or a half pound of fresh ones carefully 
pared and washed. Put all into the soup pot and boil 
one hour; then add slowly a pint of good, drawn butter 
and serve with toast squares or tiny rolls. 

Potato Soup 

Boil six potatoes and mash them smoothly and gradually 
add them to two quarts of boiling white stock; season well 
and pass through a sieve; heat and serve with toast squares. 



Soups 69 

Mushroom Soup 

Take a cupful of dried mushrooms, thoroughly wash and 
soak them for a couple of hours, then put them in a double 
boiler with a pint of cold milk and let them simmer until 
they are puffed up; then add a pint of hot milk, a gill of 
cream, a saltspoon of pepper, a half teaspoon salt, a table- 
spoon of Worcestershire sauce, and a tablespoon of chutney 
syrup; thicken all by adding a Uttle butter and flour mixed 
to a paste, but do not make the soup too thick. 

Mushroom Soup 

Take one can of button mushrooms, drain, cut in half, 
saut6 in butter, pepper and salt to taste, for five minutes, 
then add gradually a pint of white stock, the juice of an 
onion, a quarter bud of garlic, a tablespoon of mushroom 
ketchup, a tablespoon of Worcestershire sauce, and add 
gradually another pint of stock. Thicken slightly with a 
little browned flour and butter creamed together, let boil 
up until the right consistency, remove from the fire» and 
add a cup of hot cream. 

Fresh Tomato Soup 

Take one dozen fresh smooth tomatoes and chop them 
fine, chopping with them a stalk of celery, two onions, two 
peppers, and a btmch of fresh sweet herbs. Add a half 
slice of lean ham and cover with a quart of cold water. 
Boil evenly for an hour, then add a little cornstarch to 
thicken the soup slightly. 

Vegetable Marrow Soup 

Pare and slice fotu* medium marrows, cover them with 
two quarts of white stock; let them boil until they are very 
tender, then strain and press them through a purde sieve, 
add quarter of a saltspoon of pepper, half teaspoon of salt, a 
teaspoon of sugar, a grating of nutmeg, and the juice of an 



70 Soups 

onion. Just at serving add a half pint of hot cream. 
Toast sippets that have been fried in butter and carefully 
drained are nice with this soup. 

Spinach Soup 

Take two quarts of white stock, season and thicken very 
slightly, and add, just before serving, one cup of hot cream. 
Have ready three quarts of spinach that has been carefully 
washed, boiled, chopped fine, well drained, seasoned with 
a saltspoon of pepper and a half teaspoon of salt, and 
a teaspoon of melted butter, and molded into balls the size 
of English walnuts. Arrange the balls in a tureen or allow 
two to a portion, and turn the hot soup over them. 

. Pomeranian Soup 

Wash and boil until very tender one quart of white beans. 
Remove half of the beans and set aside; put the rest with 
the soup through a purte sieve. Heat the soup again, 
adding the juice of an onion, a half cup of chopped celery, 
and the seasoning, put in the remainder of the beans, and 
boil fifteen minutes. If the soup seems a bit thick, add a 
little hot cream and serve. Little toast squares are nice 
with this soup. 

Russian Bortsch 

Select two pecks of tender beets, wash and cut them in 
quarters, and place them in a wooden half barrel, or tub, 
with sufficient tepid water to cover them. Stir them and 
remove the accumulated scum from time to time, allowing 
them to stand from ten to fifteen days to ferment and 
become sour. They should then be drained and the liquid 
boiled until it is perfectly clear, skimming carefully. It is 
then bottled and is ready for use as a soup stock, or the 
Russians use it also for a beverage. When ready to make 
the soup take two quarts of the bortsch and add to it a 



Soups 71 

pound of diced beef, a small slice of diced ham, and a diced 
pork tenderloin; wash and dice a soup bunch and add. 
Allow it to cook until all the ingredients are done; season 
to taste and serve with the ingredients left in it. 

CREAM SOUPS AND PUREES 

Cream soups and purees are more especially suitable for 
luncheon and nursery use, and are often included in the 
various invalid and meatless diets. They require the greatest 
care in preparation, for they bum easily, thicken and grow 
pasty if allowed to stand and cool after they are ready, and 
are not attractive to reheat and use again. Therefore it is 
wise to make only the quantity that is needed for one 
serving. Only the sweetest of milk and cream, best butter, 
freshest eggs, and perfectly matured vegetables carefully 
washed and prepared, and fruit in perfection should be 
considered in their making. Cornstarch, arrowroot, rice, 
banana, or one of the new vegetable flowers will be found 
the most delicate thickenings for these soups. There 
should also be a double boiler and fresh granite saucepan 
devoted to these soups, so they are not cooked in vessels 
that retain strong flavors and exude greases of other foods 
that have been cooked in them. 

Cream of Asparagus Soup 

For cream soup, wash, trim, and scrape the stalks of one 
bunch of asparagus, cut the ''heads" ode inch long and boil 
separately till done, then drain and set aside. Cut the 
rest into inch pieces, cover with one pint and a half of 
boiling water, and cook until very tender, adding a quarter 
of a saltspoon of salt and the juice of one small onion. 
Strain and mash through a sieve, add a pint of hot milk 
and half a pint of cream, thicken with butter and flour 
rubbed to a paste, add the asparagus heads, season to taste, 
and serve with toasted croutons. 



72 Soups 

Agoacate Cream Soup 

To a rich cream soup that has been flavored with sweet 
herbs, add one aguacate pared and seeded and cut into very 
small pieces, just as the soup boils up for the last time before 
serving. Select ripe aguacates (alligator pears) for soup 
use as they will have a better flavor. 

Com Purge 

Split the grains of one dozen ears of com and scrape 
them down, add a tablespoon of sugar, salt and pepper to 
taste, small Itmip of butter, a cup of milk, and a cup of 
cream; boil in double boiler for fifteen minutes, then rub 
through a pur6e sieve, and if too thick thin slightly with a 
little hot cream. Canned com may also be used if fresh is 
out of season; one can will be equal to six ears of com. 

Cucumber Pur6e 

Take one large, ripe cucumber, pare, and remove the 
seeds. Cut it into slices; wash and cut two heads of lettuce 
and place with the cucumber, in one quart of water. Add 
one onion whole and one stalk of celery, one clove, and two 
slices of lemon by way of flavoring. Boil until the cucumber 
is very tender, then remove the onion and celery and rub 
the rest through a pur6e sieve. Add. a pint of hot cream, 
thicken slightly with a little butter and flour rubbed smooth. 

Pyrle of Lima Beans 

Soak one pound of dried lima beans over night. In the 
morning slip them from their skins and add to them three 
pints of water with a small sliced onion, two stalks each of 
parsley and celery, with a saltspoon of bicarbonate of soda. 
Cook all until very tender and until the water has boiled 
down about one half, then put through a pur^e sieve. 
Have the following cream sauce ready to mix with the 
bean pur^: Three tablespoons of butter and two table- 



Soups 73 

spoons of flour creamed together well, add one pint of cream, 
a quarter saltspoon of paprika, and the same of pepper. 
Mix carefully with the purine, wipe the inside of the double 
boiler with a bud of garlic, turn the p\xc6e into it, and stir 
constantly until all is smooth and hot. Serve with toasted 
croutons. 

Cream of Celery Sotxp 

Boil a trimmed and washed head of celery in one pint of 
water for thirty minutes. Boil a blade of mace and a 
large slice of onion in a pint of milk; mix one tablespoon of 
flour with two tablespoons of milk; add this to the boiling 
milk, and cook for ten minutes. Mash the celery in the 
water in which it has been cooked, mix it into the boiling 
milk, and add one tablespoon of butter, seasoning with 
pepper and salt to taste. Stir well for one minute, then 
strain. The flavor may be improved by adding one cup of 
whipped cream, when the soup is put into the tureen. 
This is sufficient for four people. 

Cream of Cabbage Soup 

For the cream of cabbage soup, use one small white cab- 
bage and strip from it the outer leaves. Cut it in half, 
remove the hard heart, and then chop it coarsely; put it 
into a large saucepan, cover it with a pint of boiling water, 
and add a teaspoon of salt, a saltspoon of cayenne pepper, 
two lumps of sugar, and a quart of hot milk. Let it stew 
gently, covered, until the cabbage is very tender, and then 
strain through a fine sieve. Add to the liquid a teaspoon 
of onion juice and thicken with butter and flour rubbed 
to a smooth cream. Boil the soup until it is the con- 
sistency of honey; if it is inclined to be lumpy, strain it into 
the tureen. Dot the surface with tiny toast squares and 
serve hot. The cabbage that has been strained from the 
soup may be put away, and the next day may be escalloped 
with crumbs and cheese for a luncheon dish. 



74 Soups 

le Pur6e 



Pare and chop fine one fresh ripe pineapple, add a few 
stalks of celery, pepper, salt, and a pint of water. Let 
simmer tmtil the fruit is done, then put it through a pur^e 
sieve. Add to it a pint of hot cream, a teaspoon of sugar 
and paprika, mix and see that it is hot — ^but do not boil 
after adding the cream. If the pur6e seems a bit thin 
add a little butter and flour rubbed to a cream and allow 
it to come to the boiling point. 

Peach Pur6e 

Select two dozen large ripe peaches, pare, halve, and stone 
them, then put them in a saucepan with a pint of water; 
boil them until they are very tender, then put all through a 
purde sieve. Put the pulp back into the saucepan and 
add a cup of sugar, a little grated nutmeg, and a pint of hot 
sweet cream. Blend all together and serve the pur6e hot 
with toast fingers. 

DandeUon Pur6e 

Take two quarts of fresh dandelion leaves and wash 
them thoroughly, then chop fine and boil them in one 
quart of water. "When done (in twenty minutes) Add the 
juice of an onion, a teaspoon of salt, the same of sugar, and 
a saltspoon of pepper, one pint rich milk or cream, and 
thicken with flour and butter rubbed to a cream. Rub 
all through a pur6e sieve and put in a double boiler to 
reheat, adding a finely diced hard-boiled egg. 

Pimento Bisqu6 

Wash and chop six red peppers, removing the seed cones 
of three, add three chopped onions and a stalk of chopped 
celery and put all in a quart of cold water. When it begins 
to boil add a half cup of well washed rice and boil twenty 
minutes. Put through a pur6e sieve and add to the mixture 



Soxipa 75 

one pint of rich milk or cream heated to boiling point and 
thicken with rice flour rubbed smooth in cold milk (about 
two level tablespoons, but it may not all be needed) ; stir in a 
little at a time until the mixture has the consistency of 
molasses. 

Pdtage Cressonni^e 

Take two good-sized white onions, pare and slice thin, 
and fry in butter until a delicate brown, adding a tablespoon 
of flour and cooking three minutes longer; add one quart of 
boiling water and boil slowly. Pare and dice one quart of 
potatoes, add them to the potage with a half bunch of well 
washed watercress chopped flne. When ready to serve, 
after it has cooked for half an hour, add a pint of hot milk 
and four ounces of table butter creamed with two heaping 
tablespoons of lentil flour. This will thicken the potage 
sufficiently. Serve very hot. This will serve eight people. 

Spinach Pur6e 

Wash careftilly two quarts of spinach and cook until 
tender in a small quantity of water. Rub through a sieve 
and add three cups of rich stock and season to taste. Stir 
to a paste one tablespoon of butter and the same quantity 
of flour and one cup of hot milk. Add this to the soup and 
let all boil up together, stirring to keep it smooth. Serve 
with croutons. 

Parsnip Pur^e 

Pare and boil six good-sized parsnips until soft enough 
to mash, drain, and put them through a pur6e sieve; add 
one cup of milk in which a tablespoon of cornstarch has 
been dissolved, two tablespoons of melted butter, pepper, 
salt, and a teaspoon of sugar; mix smooth, add a half pint of 
cream, and let boil up once, stirring carefully; then add a 
half pint of hot cream. It is then ready to serve. Use 



7^ Soxips 

toast squares that have been fried in butter and drained, 
and rub the inside of the tureen with a little piece of garlic. 

Tomato Bisque 

Take one can of tomatoes, one onion, and a soup bunch, 
boil all together for an hour, strain, and set away to cool. 
When needed, heat to boiling point; also heat a pint and 
a half of milk and have ready butter and flour mixed to a 
paste for thickening. Put a half teaspoon of bicarbonate 
of soda into the tomato and as it foams up add the milk 
and rub in the thickening. Season to taste and serve in a 
tureen. 

Cream of Tomato Soup 

To one can of tomatoes add a well washed and diced 
soup bunch, a pint of cold water, and cook thirty minutes; 
strain and set aside. Just before serving heat a pint and a 
half of sweet milk, add to it a teaspoon of salt and a salt- 
spoon of pepper, and thicken it with butter and flour rubbed 
to a cream, adding lastly a saltspoon (heaping) of bi- 
carbonate of soda. This prepares the milk to receive the 
tomato, which should be hot and added slowly, stirring 
steadily while it is added. The cream should be made 
thick enough to allow for the thinning by the addition of the 
tomato. This is sufiScient for six persons. 

Pur6e of Asparagus 

Take one bunch of green asparagus, wash and trim, boil 
until very tender in a quart of water, adding salt, pepper, 
the juice of an onion, and a stalk of celery cut fine; when 
very tender remove from the water and mash through a 
pt2r6e sieve; add to the pulp one cup of cream, one cup of 
milk, one cup of the water in which it was boiled, pepper, 
salt to taste, and thicken with butter and flour rubbed to a 
cream. Serve hot with toast croutons. 



Soups 77 

Cream of Lettuce Soup 

Wash thoroughly two large, solid heads of Boston lettuce, 
then shred it and cover it with a pint of cold water. Let 
boil a half hour» add the juice of an onion and a pint of hot 
milk, a half teaspoon of salt and a saltspoon of pepper. 
Thicken with a heaping tablespoon of butter and a table- 
spoon of flour rubbed to a cream. Work all through a 
pur^e sieve; reheat in the double boiler and serve. This 
is sufficient for six people. 

Cream of Salsify Soup 

Scrape two bunches of salsify and cut in pieces. Slice 
one onion thin and cook it with the salsify in one quart of 
water. When cooked very soft put through a ptu^^e sieve; 
season to taste, add a cup of hot cream, and, if not quite 
thick enough, it may be thickened with a little butter and 
flour creamed together. 

Cream of Beet Soup 

Boil two bunches of new beets (forty-five minutes) and 
when cool enough to handle pare and grate them. Add the 
grated beet to a pint of white stock, heat, and when hot 
add a pint of hot cream, or rich milk; season to taste, 
thicken lightly if needed, though generally the grated 
beet is sufficient thickening. Serve hot. This will serve 
six persons. 

CEREAL SOUPS 

Cereal soups are in great favor as nursery soups but are 
also liked by "grown-ups," and n:iake quite acceptable 
changes in the daily menu. 

Macaroni is a paste made from wheaten flour and water, 
partially baked as it is forced through the cylinder or 
machine that shapes it and makes it; then it is hung up to 



7^ Soxspa 

dry for several da3rs. It is wholesome and nutritious and 
well deserves the place on the menu that it has won. 

Tapioca is a most excellent soup mediimi as well. It is 
made from the pith of the cassava tree, native to the East 
Indies and Brazil. Its nutritive properties are great and 
are especially adapted to delicate digestions. 

Rice is another grain that lends itself to cooking in various 
wa3rs that are all most acceptable. The Hill rice, the Patna, 
and the Carolina are well known varieties. It is very 
nutritious when taken with other foods, but if eaten in 
large quantities alone it is apt to lay too long in the stomach 
and create indigestion. 

Tapioca Soup 

Put five ounces of tapioca into two quarts of cold white 
stock and bring it gradually to a boil. Simmer for an 
hour or longer, until it is tender. Season to taste, and just 
before serving add a wineglass of good sherry and serve 
with dry toast fingers. 

Macaroni Soup 

Add to two quarts of clear stock the macaroni that has 
been fixed in the following way: — Put three ounces of maca- 
roni and a piece of butter into boiling salted water and 
boil for half an hour. Drain and cut it into short lengths or 
rings, add it to the stock with the seasoning and a generous 
sprinkling of Paimesan cheese. It should soak in the 
stock fifteen minutes before adding the cheese — ^in fact, 
in many places the cheese is added at table. 

Rice Soup 

Throw four ounces of Patna rice into boiling water and 
let it boil five minutes. Then pour into a sieve and allow 
it to drain well. Then add it to two quarts of boiling 
white stock. Add a level teaspoon of salt, a quarter of a 



So\ip8 79 

saltspoon of pepper, and a pinch of maoe. Just before it 
goes to table put a few tablespoons of whipped cream over 
the top and serve with toasted bread sippets. 

Vennicelli Soup 

Set a three-pound chicken to boil in two quarts of red 
stock; add two slices of bacon, a bud of garlic, and an onion 
stuck with cloves. When the chicken is weU done, take it 
out and strain the soup. Return it to the soup pot and, 
when it boils, add four ounces of vermicelli and the sea- 
soning; let boil for ten minutes, then add the chicken that 
has been diced, cook ten minutes more, then turn into 
the tureen and strew over the top toasted bread squares. 

Barley Soup 

Take two pounds of shin of beef, a quarter pound of 
pearl barley, and a soup bunch of vegetables, washed and 
chopped fine, and four quarts of water. Boil slowly for 
three hours; add pepper and salt to taste. When ready to 
serve remove the bones and add toasted bread squares. 

Sago Soup 

Wash three ounces of sago in hot water, add it to two 
quarts of white stock, adding one bay leaf and a lump of 
sugar; simmer for half an hour, then add the beaten yolks 
of two eggs and a half pint of hot cream; stir quickly, but 
do not let them boil, as the eggs might curdle. Serve 
immediately. Samp may be used in the same way. 

Monte Carlo Soup 

Cut six slices of stale bread, butter them very lightly with 
soft butter, and sprinkle them thinly with sugar; then care- 
fully brown them in the oven and lay them in the soup 
tureen. Take a quart of highly seasoned white stock 
and add to it a pint of hot milk and a pint of hot cream ; just 



8o Soups 

before serving time add a tablespoon of finely chopped 
celery leaves and turn all over the toast. 

Bread Soup 

Boil one pound of bread crusts in one quart of red stock, 
adding an ounce of butter, for half an hour. Beat the 
crust up with a spoon and allow it to continue boiling until 
bread and stock are thoroughly mixed. Season with a 
level teaspoon of salt and a saltspoon of pepper. This soup 
is cheap, seasonable the year round, and this quantity serves 
four people. 

COLD AND JELLIED SOUPS 

Particularly "attractive for summer serving are the 
different iced soups, or those which have been jellied. Soup 
still retains its place on the menu during the warm months, 
but often a hot soup is not desired and those served cold 
offer a pleasant variation. 

Clam Brotiii Bellevae 

Make one quart of rich chicken broth, adding savory 
herbs and seasoning while it cooks; then strain and cool. 
Take one dozen and a half of Little Neck clams, wash care- 
fully, put in saucepan with one cup cold water; let simmer 
until all the clams have opened, strain the juice, and add to 
the chicken broth; when thoroughly chilled and ready to 
serve, put a tablespoon of whipped cream on top of each cup. 

Salianka 

Take a slice of codfish, the backbone of the cod, the 
bones and a few flakes of salmon, pint of water, and pint of 
white wine; add a bunch of herbs, one onion, salt and pepper; 
boil a half hour, then strain through fine sieve into service 
cups to allow it to chill and lightly jell. Serve with cucum- 



So\ips 8 1 

ber fingers that have been rubbed in salt to draw off their 
poison water, then rolled in powdered nuts with a dash of 
paprika. 

Essence of Chicken MadrOaine in Jelly 

Clean one three-pound fowl and joint it; add one pound 
calves' foot jelly, one bud garlic, one pound carrots, one 
pound leeks» one pound onions, six tomatoes, one teaspoon 
curry powder; add water to fill kettle, place over the fire 
until it reaches boiling point, then draw aside and allow 
to boil slowly for two hours. Strain through cheesecloth 
and set aside to cool; remove all grease with a blotting 
paper as it rises; when cool place in icebox until needed. 
This consomm£ when properly made is dear and partially 
jellied. Serve very cold. 

Iced Gam Brofih 

Take three dozen little round dams, scrub them clean, 
and place them in an enamd saucepan, covering them with 
a cup and a half of cold water. Let them steam, after 
they get hot, for five minutes or tmtil all the shells are 
open. Remove the dams from the shells, carefully strain 
the broth through cheesedoth and set against the ice to 
chill. When serving put a dash of pepper on the top of 
each cup and lay a wafer in the saucer. The dams may be 
covered with a little of the broth and chopped for fritters 
for breakfast or luncheon, so that they are not wasted. 

Frozen Beef Tea 

Make a good beef tea, the quantity whidi wiU be needed, 
strain, season with salt and pepper to taste, and dissolve 
in it one teaspoon of powdered gelatine. Let it get cold 
and then skim off all the grease. Beat the whites of two 
6ggs very stiff, blend it with the beef tea, and freeze to the 
consistency of a heavy custard or mousse. Put a dash of 





82 So\ip8 

paprika over each portion and place a dainty soup stick 
on the saucer. 

Cherry Soup 

Crush the juice from one pound of large ripe cherries, 
add one pint of water, one pint of white wine, and one 
tablespoon of sugar. Stew fifteen minutes, strain carefully, 
and diill; serve in cup bedded in cracked ice, with the 
relishes. 

Raspberry Soup 

Wash carefully two quarts of raspberries, add to them one 
teacup of grape juice, one teacup of water, four ounces of 
sugar, and one stick of cinnamon four inches long. Boil all 
together for fifteen minutes, skimming carefully, cool and 
chill. 

Lemon Soup 

Make a rich hot lemonade and thicken it slightly with 
cornstarch, then let it get cold and chill. When ready 
to serve add a teaspoon of grated pineapple to each cup 
and a green Maraschino cherry. 

Orange Soup 

Make a strong lemonade of eight lemons and two oranges, 
add a cup of sugar and a pint and a half of boiling water, 
thicken slightly with cornstarch and let it cool. When 
cold add the scraped pulp of two oranges and one grape- 
fruit. Chill and serve in cups with a red cherry in each 
cup. 

Cold Beet Soup, Waldemar 

Grate eight cold boiled beets and place in a saucepan 
with a glass of white wine; boil five minutes^ then strain 
through a fine cloth and set away to cool. Take four hard- 
boiled eggs, pass the yolks through a sieve and mix them 



Soups 83 

with one pint of sour cream; add to the beet essence, season 
well with salt and pepper, and serve in cups on ice with 
garniture of six radishes diced, egg wldtes cut in fine strips, 
and one cucumber which has been simmered in hot water 
five minutes, then thinly sliced. This is a most refreshing 
soup in hot weather. 

FRUIT AND ITOT SOUPS 

Fruit and nut soups have nothing special to recommend 
their use other than adding a note of variety in soup offer- 
ings. America is receiving a greater variety of nuts from 
other countries than ever before and we are gradually learn- 
ing to use and appreciate them as we do the foreign fruits 
that were once only a rare luxury. 

Almonds are considered indigestible, and it is not well to 
eat too freely of them, as they contain a principle that 
produces two violent poisons, a volatile oil and prussic 
add. They are considered least dangerous to the digestive 
organs when salted. Almond paste is the foundation of 
some of our most delicious candies, macaroons, and other 
French cookery. 

Almond Soup 

Boil four pounds of lean beef with a scrag of mutton in 
two and a half quarts of water until the meat is done and 
the gravy is rich; strain, and add eight ounces of vermicelli, 
four bl£tdes of mace, six cloves, and boil until the spices 
flavor. Blanch and pound half a potmd of sweet almonds, 
mix a little soup while pounding, in order that the almonds 
may not grow oily; add the yolks of six hard-boiled eggs, 
pound tmtil it is a mere ptilp, mix all together, strain, heat, 
and just before serving add a gill of rich cream. 

Alligator Pear Soup 

Pare and cut into small pieces four good-sized alligator 
pears; put them in a double boiler with a pint of water and 



84 Soups 

one chopped red pepper, a quarter bud of garKc and one 
thinly sliced onion. Boil until very tender, put all through a 
pur^e sieve, add to it one pint of hot cream, a small lump 
of butter, pepper and salt to taste. If the soup is too 
thick, thin it slightly with a little bit of milk, but leave it 
a heavy soup and serve with toast squares that have been 
fried in butter and carefully drained. 

Aguacate Cream Soup 

Make a rich cream soup in the usual way, adding a 
generous flavoring of sweet herbs. Pare one alligator pear, 
remove the seed, and cut the pulp in small pieces. As the 
soup boils up for the last time, add the pear and serve. 

Plum Soup 

Boil four large tablespoons of pearl tapioca in one pint of 
water, adding to it one quart jar of canned plums; add dash 
of nutmeg, two tablespoons of sugar, if it is not too 
sweet from the canned plums; strain; add one glass of 
madeira wine. If a thicker soup is desired, dissolve one 
tablespoon of arrowroot in a gill of sweet cream and add 
to the mixture, letting it boil up only once before serving. 

« 

Prune Soup 

Soak eight prunes in one pint of water over night. In 
the morning remove the prunes and add to the water 
one pint of stock with three thickly sliced leeks, one level 
teaspoon of salt and a quarter saltspoon of pepper. Let 
the soup simmer until the leeks are tender, then add the 
prunes; boil five minutes and turn into a tureen that has 
been wiped with a bud of garlic. Serve toasted croutons 
with the soup. 

Apple Soup 

Apple soup will be found an agreeable change once in a 
while. Peel, quarter, and core two pounds of apples and 



SoUp8 85 

boil in two quarts of good white stock until tender; then rub 
through a sieve, add a quarter saltspoon of pepper, a level 
teaspoon of salt, a saltspoon of allspice, and a tablespoon of 
sugar, and just before serving add a glass of madeira and 
a gill of cream. Serve with toasted croutons. 

Apple Soup 

Peel» core, and cut in pieces four sour apples, add them 
to a quart of water, the juice of one lemon, and a grating 
of cinnamon, boil until the apples are entirely soft, then 
add one third cupful of boiled sago and sweeten to taste; 
just before serving add glass of white wine and cup of 
whipped cream. 

Cocoanut Soup, Hindtistaiii 

Grate two fresh cocoanuts and mix them with one and a 
half quarts of white stock. Simmer gently for a half an 
hour, then season with one teaspoon of salt, a saltspoon of 
pepper, strain and thicken with two egg yolks beaten with 
juice of a lemon and enough flour to make a thin batter. 
Serve with croutons that have been fried in butter. 

Cocoanut Soup 

To three quarts of white stock add six ounces of grated 
cocoanut, a quarter saltspoon of pepper, a half teaspoon of 
salt, and a half saltspoon of mace; simmer gently one hour; 
strain and add a quarter pint of boiling cream; thicken 
with six ounces of rice flour. 

Spanish Chestnut Soup 

Peel and blanch three quarters of a pound of French 
chestnuts, cover them with a quart of good stock, and stew 
them gently for three quarters of an hour; drain, pound, 
and rub them through a fine sieve; add half a teaspoon of 



86 Soups 

salt, quarter saltspoon of pepper, a half saltspoon of mace, 
stir until it boils, then add one quarter pint of hot cream; 
serve with toasted croutons. 

Chestnut Soup 

Remove the shells from three quarters of a pound of 
French chestnuts and put them into warm water. When 
it becomes too hot to put the fingers into it, remove the 
chestnuts from the fire and blanch them. Rinse them 
and put them on the fire in a saucepan containing a quart 
of white stock. Let them boil until they are very soft, then 
rub all through a sieve. Add seasoning and a half pint of 
cream. Keep hot, but do not boil again. Serve croutons 
with the soup. 

Brazil Nut Soup 

For the soup select one pound of fresh Brazil nuts, shell, 
blanch, and put them through a grinder. Stew them for 
two hours in three pints of water, to which add a stalk of 
chopped celery, an onion, carrot, parsley, and a leek. When 
done pass through a sieve, add a pint of boiling milk, 
thickened slightly with a little butter and flour rubbed to a 
cream, season, and just as it is removed from the fire add a 
cup of hot cream. Serve with toast dice which have been 
fried in butter and carefully drained. 

Marion Soup 

Take one pint jar of marrons and turn them into a sauce- 
pan with the liquor and add one quart of good vegetable 
stock. Cook gently until the marrons are soft; then press 
through a sieve, season with salt, pepper, a teaspoon of 
Worcestershire sauce, four drops of kitchen bouquet, heat, 
add half a pint of hot, heavy cream, and serve with toasted 
croutons. This soup to be at its best must be served very 
hot. 



Soups 87 

Cream of Peanut Soup 

Put one quart of milk into a double boiler and add to it 
the juice of one onion, a bay leaf, a half cup of chopped 
celery, a quarter saltspoon of pepper, a half teaspoon of salt 
and half a pint of peanut butter. Cook until all is smooth, 
then thicken with a tablespoon of cornstarch mixed in a 
little cold water. Serve hot with toasted croutons. This 
will serve four people. 

Orange Soup 

Pare and cut in pieces eight oranges and add them to one 
quart of water. Boil for half an hour, then strain, turn 
the juice back into the saucepan, and add a saltspoon of 
salt, and a half saltspoon of cayenne pepper. As it boils 
up add a half saltspoon of bicarbonate of soda, then thicken 
with a little butter and flour mixed to a cream. Remove 
from the fire and add a half pint of hot cream. Serve with 
the soup dry toast squares or croutons. 

SOUP GARNISHES 

The so-called soup garnishes include soup dumplings of 
all kinds, the various macaroni pastes which come in differ- 
ent shapes, diced vegetables and vegetable balls and blocks 
and forcemeat of different sorts. Besides the toasted 
croutons, fried bread crumbs, and toasted bread squares, 
there are also the toast rings that are dipped in melted butter 
and sprinkled with Parmesan cheese. Of cotu^ the 
garnishes can only be used in clear soups. And in using 
any of the dumplings they may be boiled in fair water, 
drained, and dropped in the soup, so by their cooking they 
do not boil away and waste any of the rich soup stock. 
The diced vegetables may always be prepared in the morn- 
ing and dropped into the soup when needed. The plain 
macaroni now comes colored pink with tomato sauce, and 
colored green with spinach, which makes it decorative for 



88 ' Soups 

soup use. After boiling in clear water it may be cut into 
rings or short lengths, and in a plain tomato or consomm6 
soup it is very pretty. 

Still finer than the vermicelli is the Swiss brand of the 
paste called angel tresses, which is very fine and dainty for 
use in clear soups; while for garnishing nursery soups the 
marcaroni paste alphabet is still popular. 

Croutons 

Cut sliced bread into squares, triangles, or rings; trim 
off all crusts and fry a delicate brown in butter. Drain and 
they are ready to serve. 

Plain toast squares are made by cutting large dice from 
thick slices of bread and drying them in the oven, allowing 
them to become a delicate brown. 

Toast rings are made by drying bread rings in the oven, 
then smearing them with melted butter and dusting them 
with grated cheese, to which a little pepper and salt may be 
added. 

Cracker Dumplings 

Soak six thick soda crackers in water for two minutes, 
then press dry. Pry one minced onion in butter and pour 
over the crackers; add three beaten eggs, a saltspoon of salt, 
and a half saltspoon of pepper. Beat all together and add 
enough cracker meal to be able to form the mixture into 
dumplings about the size of a large marble. Drop the 
dumplings in boiling salted water and boil ten minutes; 
drain, and drop into the hot soup. 

Austrian Potato Dumplings 

Boil five potatoes in salted water for twenty-five minutes; 
drain, cool, and grate them; add to them four beaten eggs, 
two tablespoons of melted butter, a level teaspoon of salt, 
a half saltspoon of pepper, and fiour enough, sifted in, to be 



Soups 89 

able to mold the mixture into dumplings. Fry them a 
delicate brown in hot fat, drain, and drop into the clear 
soup. 

German Liver Dumplings 

Take a half pound of calf's liver, wash, and chop fine 
with one onion, add two beaten eggs, a level teaspoon of 
salt and a saltspoon of pepper, a teaspoon of melted butter, 
and enough dry bread crumbs to shape the mixture into 
balls. Drop into boiling, salted water and boil fifteen 
minutes; drain and add to the soup. 

Soup Dumplings 

Chop finely a half cupful of suet, add half cupful of flour, 
a quarter teaspoon of salt, a few drops of onion juice, 
pepper, and enough ice water to moisten the mixttu^. Roll 
into smooth dumplings, the size of a marble, and lay on 
floured plate. When ready, allow them to boil ten minutes 
in soup and serve. 

Coronet Dumplings 

These are also to be used in clear soup. To one pint of 
dear, rich tomato soup, add sprinkling of salt, pepper, 
nutmeg, and stir in five well beaten eggs. Pour the 
mixture into a well buttered pudding mold. Set the bowl 
into boiling water and allow it to boil one hour. Be careful 
to keep the water out of the mold, by covering it and 
not allowing the water to boil too hard. When sufficiently 
cooked, cut into balls with a potato scoop and drop into 
the soup. Allow three to each soup plate. 

Stew DumpUngs 

The best stew dumplings are those made from bread 
dough. Pinch them off when the loaves are to be put in 



90 Soups 

the pans and let them raise on a floured board until a half 
hour before dinner. Then drop them on the top of the 
boiling chicken or lamb stew, covering tightly with a doth 
and the pot cover, and let them boil twenty minutes. Take 
them out, serve on a hot platter, and the stew on another 
platter, pouring on last the gravy, which has been 
thickened. 

Baking Pbwder Dumplings 

These are very nice for stew, but cannot equal the raised 
ones. Mix one pint sifted flour, two teaspoons baking 
powder, and half teaspoon of salt. Mix to a soft dough 
with milk, turn on the board, roll out an inch thick, and cut 
in small circles with cookie cutter. Roll in flour, drop on 
top of the simmering stew, cover, and cook twenty minutes 
without opening the pot. 

Marrow Balls for Soup 

Melt a tablespoon of marrow and strain through a doth. 
Beat it until creamy, then add one egg, pepper, salt, afid a 
little nutmeg. Beat again thoroughly, and add as much 
soft bread crumbs as the mixture will absorb. Shape in 
marbles, poach in boiling water, and put into the soup just 
before serving. 

Potato Dumplings 

These are to be served with pot roast or fricassee. Mix 
with one dozen cold boiled potatoes, grated, six table- 
sx>oons of flour, two tablespoons baking powder, salt, and 
nutmeg. Add a tablespoon of mdted butter and three 
eggs, one at a time, mixing thoroughly. Form into balls 
about the size of a small apple, put into boiling water, 
which has been well salted, and boil fifteen minutes. Take 
out dumplings with a skimmer and garnish the roast with 
them. 



Soups 91 

Suet Dumplings 

Chop and free from skin a quarter of a pound of fresh 
beef suet. Add a cup and a half of flour, a half teaspoon 
of salt, a teaspoon of sugar, a dash of cayenne pepper, a salt- 
spoon of baking powder, and enough water to form them 
into small dumplings the size of marbles. Put on a floured 
plate until ready to drop them into the soup. Boil fifteen 
minutes. 

Almond Balls 

Blanch and chop twenty-four Jordan almonds and mix 
with them a small cup of dry bread crtunbs, a half teaspoon 
of salt, a quarter saltspoon of pepper, and the whites of two 
eggs; mold the mixture into small balls and fry them a 
golden brown in oUye oil. Drain and add to the soup. 

Marrow Balls 

Take a quarter of a cup of chopped marrow and add to it 
a half a cup of bread crumbs, a teaspoon of onion juice, a 
saltspoon of salt, and a quarter saltspoon of pepper, the 
beaten yolk of one egg, and three drops of kitchen bouquet. 
Mold the mixture into small balls, dip them into the white 
of egg to seal them, and drop them into boiling water. 
Allow them to boil for two or three minutes, then lift them 
out and drop them into the hot soup. 

Forcemeat Balls 

Take four tablespoons of any cold, chopped meat, or dry, 
boiled, cold fish, add to this four tablespoons of bread 
crumbs, a half teaspoon of chopped tarragon leaves, a half 
teaspoon of onion juice, one teaspoon of chutney syrup, 
saltspoon of salt, and a quarter of a saltspoon of pepper, 
and bind all together with the yolk of one egg. Form into 
small balls and drop them into a slowly boiling soup, and 
boil five minutes. 



92 Soups 

Heart of P^Um Potage 

This excellent dainty comes all prepared in pint and 
qtiart jars and only needs heating, and the addition of a gill 
of cream to the pint and two gills to the quart, before serving. 
The potage is expensive, so is classed among the luxuries 
like the following one. 

Birds' Nest Soup 

The birds' nests are made of a mucilaginous moss by 
birds who live by the sea on the coast of China. The nests 
are hard and dry when they are imported and cost a dollar 
and a half each. To prepare them they must be soaked in 
water for forty-eight hours, changing the water often. They 
then have to be gently boiled until the nests are like soft 
gelatine; they are then ready to add, one or a half one to each 
plate of clear soup. They are much the same in flavor as 
the spine of the sturgeon (vesigha) which comes from 
Russia for use, after forty-eight hours' soaking, in stews. 
This odd dainty sells at three dollars a potmd. 



FISH 

Reputable fishmongers recognize but one kind, and that 
is "fresh fish." Remember this fact: Fresh fish properly 
cooked never creates iUness, and is one of the most valuable 
and economical food products brought to our markets. 

In choosing fish a proof of the freshness and goodness 
thereof is in the appearance and presence of the scales. It 
is possible for a fish to be fresh and still not good. Just 
before spawning the fish are supposed to be in the best 
edible condition. After spawning they are "out of season" 
and not fit for table use, no matter how fresh they may 
appear. 

Fish out of season have a transparent bluish tinge when 
they are boiled, but when in season the muscles are firm 
and boil white and curdy. For instance, the codfish is at its 
best when it is plump and round at the tail, and the hollow 
behind the head is deep, and when the sides are undtilated, 
as if ribbed. Another test good for cod, and other fish as 
well, is to press the finger into the side, and if the indent 
fills immediately the fish is fresh; if not, it is stale. 

Salmon, mackerel, herring, and trout soon spoil after 
they are caught; therefore they should be eaten as soon as 
possible. Other fish may be kept a few hours if wrapped 
in a linen doth which has been wrung out of cold water and 
placed on the ice. 

In choosing a fish it is well to note that the gills are 
red, but this is not an infallible rule of freshness. 

Fish is less nourishing than meat, for it is lighter in 
weight, size for size, and contains no osmazome. Choosing 
fish for the table is a fine art, and the housekeeper will find 

93 



94 FisK 

it greatly to her advantage to spend a few moments with 
her fishmonger, when he is among his wares, so that he may 
illustrate. 

In choosing mackerel its bright appearance and rather 
transparent look is a good test to go by. 

The artistic garnishing of fish and the art of making 
tempting sauces are secrets to learn in fish cookery. 

If fish cookery is well studied the cook will find many so- 
called economical ways of using fish '*left overs" that will 
prove delicious dishes for luncheon and breakfast; also some 
fish salads and entree dishes may be concocted in this way, 
seasoned with the left-over sauces, so that nothing goes to 
waste. Lemon, parsley, either green or fried, hard-boiled 
eggs, cold boiled beets and carrots cut in fancy shapes, 
water chestnuts, watercress, cane sprouts, fried artichoke 
hearts, fried pineapple dice, and savory rice balls are among 
the favorite fish garnishes used. 

In frying fish, instead of dipping it in egg^ then in the 
fine bread crumbs, dip the fish in good olive oil, then the 
cnmibs, and it will better retain its fiavor and also fry more 
evenly. 

To Boil Fish 

Fish intended for boiling should always be put on the 
fire in cold water and let come slowly to a boil; otherwise 
the outside will break before the middle is done. The boiled 
fish should be removed from the water as soon as it is cooked, 
before it grows "woolly," and placed in afish platter over the 
kettle of hot water to keep it hot tmtil it is sent to the 
table. Its cooking should be timed as closely as possible 
to the dinner hour. 

To Bake Fish 

In baking fish an unwritten culinary law is to let the 
head remain on, and it should be basted quite as carefully 
during its cooking as a joint of meat. Fish intended for 



Fieh 95 

frying must be rinsed quickly in cold water, wiped dry 
with a soft cloth, then brushed over with egg and fine 
bread crumbs, frying it in hot fat or oil deep enough to 
just cover it; when it is done drain it on white blotting 
paper. 

All fish should be placed on china or enamel plates, with 
silver or wooden forks and spoons where it is necessary. 
It should be removed at once from the butcher paper 
in which it is delivered, and wrapped immediately in 
fresh wax paper or clean linen cloth tmtil it is needed. 
Always boil fish in an enameled fish kettle — never in tin 
or iron. 

In choosing salmon be sure that the belly is round and 
firm. The steaks cut from back of the shoulders are best for 
broiling or frying. The next cut is better for boiling pur- 
poses. The salmon is not as good baked as some other 
fish, as it is apt to bake dry, and it is also too solid a fish for 
chowder. 

Salmon are cured by splitting and rubbing with salt, then 
placing them in a brine in clean tubs for about six weeks. 
Then they are drained and packed in casks between layers 
of salt. 

In cooking or serving salmon do not use vinegar with it, 
as it discolors the fish and destroys the flavor. Plain boiled 
salmon if served hot is usually accompanied by cream sauce, 
melted butter sauce with parsley and lemon, or by a 
cucumber sauce. 

If salmon is to be served baked, to prevent it from being 
dry it should be basted carefully and very often with melted 
butter and a little white wine, which will keep it moist 
and add a rich flavor to it. Caper sauce is often served 
with baked as well as boiled salmon. 

Salmon steaks are sometimes broiled over a steady fire on 
a well buttered gridiron, then spread with butter, pepper, and 
salt, and garnished with lemon and watercress. They are 
also rolled in egg, cracker dust, and a faint sprinkle of grated 
cheese, then fried in very hot fat. 



96 Fish 

Boiled Salmon 

Select a fotir-pound fish, or have a piece cut from the 
shoulders of a larger fish, rinse it in cold water, wrap it in a 
linen doth, and put it in the fish kettle covered with cold 
water. Put into the water a bay leaf, a small sliced 
onion, two cloves, and a small strip of lemon peel. After 
the fish starts to boil let it cook evenly, but not too briskly 
for fear of breaking the meat, for twenty minutes. When 
done lift it carefully, drain, and place on a hot platter. 
Garnish with cold boiled egg quarters and sliced lemon 
with a spray of parsley drawn through each slice. Hol- 
landaise sauce, plain drawn butter, tartare sauce, or any 
good fish sauce may be served with the fish. 

Freshly boiled salmon also makes an excellent breakfast 
dish, fiaked in a cream sauce with thinly sliced hard-boiled 
^ES^f garnish with toast sippets. 

Salmon k la Genevese 

Place iu a stewpan a lump of butter, four tablespoons of 
madeira wine, a quarter saltspoon of pepper, a saltspoon of 
salt, two chopped shalots, two bay leaves, a half saltspoon 
of allspice, and two slices of salmon, and stew gently a 
half hour. Strain off the gravy, and add to it a half pint of 
white stock, juice of one lemon, and one teaspoon essence 
of anchovies. Simmer and thicken with flour and butter 
rubbed to a cream. Lay the fish on a hot dish and turn 
part of the sauce over it, serving the rest in a tureen. 



Salmon Fish Cakes 

Boil two pounds of salmon until tender, bone and flake 
it, and add it to six mashed potatoes (hot), a level saltspoon 
of pepper, a level teaspoon of salt, and a heaping tablespoon 
of butter; work with the hands and mold into small 
cakes one inch thick; dust with flour and fry in hot lard to a 
delicate brown; garnish with cress. 



FisK 97 

Salmon Cutlets 

Have the salmon cut near the shoulders in thin steaks. 
Trim, wash, dip first in beaten egg, then in fine crumbs, 
and fry a delicate brown. Serve a tablespoon of tartare 
sauce on each cutlet and garnish with a spray of parsley 
drawn through a slice of lemon. 

Salmon Souffle 

Flake enough cold boiled salmon to make two cups. 
Add a quarter saltspoon of pepper, a saltspoon of salt, the 
juice of an onion, two finely chopped cold boiled eggs, a 
teaspoon of chopped tarragon leaves, half a gill of melted 
butter, half a gill of cream, and the stiffly beaten whites of 
three eggs. Toss the ingredients lightly and turn into 
buttered ramekins. Bake until puffed up and delicately 
browned. 

Salmon k la Carbon 

Take one can of sahnon, remove all bones, flake with a 
silver fork, and place in a mixing bowl with a saltspoon of 
salt, a quarter saltspoon of pepper, and a teaspoon of 
French mustard. Mix one tablespoon of butter and one 
teaspoon of flour and thicken a half cup of boiling milk. 
Take from the fire and add two well beaten eggs, mix all 
together, and fill scallop shells or ramekins with the mixture, 
sprinkling lightly with fine bread crumbs. Bake a delicate 
bdTown, serving in the shells with a spray of parsley on the 
top. 

Salmon in Ramekins 

A can of salmon will do very well. Remove from the 
can, flake, removing all skin, bone, and liquid; then place 
it in a mixing bowl, add a teaspoon of salt, one dessert- 
spoon of mustard sauce, and a quarter of a saltspoon of 
pepper; rub one heaping tablespoon of butter and one 



98 Fish 

heaping teaspoonof flour to a cream, and add to a half cup 
of hot milk at boiling point. When it slightly thickens 
remove from the stove, add three well beaten eggs, and 
mix all with the salmon; fill well buttered ramekins with 
the mixture and sprinkle with cracker dust, then brown 
lightly in moderate oven. 

Deviled Salmon 

Open four one-pound cans of salmon, drain, and remove 
the bones, then flake finely with a silver fork. Add three 
cups of fine bread crumbs, three tablespoons of Worcester- 
shire sauce, a cup of melted butter, pepper, salt, one cup 
or a little less of fresh pineapple juice, and a half cup of the 
grated pineapple. Mix all well together, then add the 
stifiSy beaten whites of three eggs. Fill scalloped shells, 
well buttered, with the mixture and bake to a delicate 
brown. Serve hot or cold, garnished with sprays of fresh 
cress. 

Baked TUe 

Select a tilefish weighing from three to five pounds and 
have it prepared for baking in the usual way. Prepare a 
highly seasoned savory stuffing of crumbs, chopped celery, 
grated onion, a saltspoon of pepper, a half teaspoon of 
salt, a dusting of sweet herbs, beaten egg, melted butter, 
and a little tomato ketchup. Make enough of the stuffing 
so that a small portion may be served with each helping 
of the fish. Before baking lay across the openings after 
they are stuffed thin strips of bacon and pin them in place. 
Lay the fish on a well buttered rack, dust with pepper and 
salt, and baste frequently with a little melted butter which 
has a little lemon juice in it. When the fish is done slide 
it to the platter and garnish with slices of broiled potatoes 
around the edge of the dish, and thin slices of lemon with 
little bunches of parsley drawn through them. Strain the 
dish gravy from under the fish and add to it one cup of 



Fish 99 

strained tomato jtdoei thicken slightly » and serve in a tureen 
with the fish. 

Btoiled Tile 

Have the slices for broiling cat the same as for steaks, 
sprinkle them with a little salt and pepper, brush them over 
with olive oil, and broil over a clear fire for about seven to 
eight minutes, on each side. When delicately brown put 
on a hot platter and turn over the slices a little melted 
butter that has a few drops of onion jtiice, lemon juice, 
pepper and salt in it. Garnish with lemon quarters and 
parsley. 

Tilefish Cakes 

Boil two pounds of tile, drain and flake it. Have boiled 
and mashed ten white potatoes. Mash the fish with the 
potato, add two tablespoons of butter, season with a salt- 
spoon of pepper and a teaspoon of salt, and add enough 
sweet cream to make the mixture light enough to shape 
into cakes. Fold in the whites of two stifBiy beaten eggs 
and mold the cakes by hand into fish-ball size. Dust 
them with flour and fry in deep hot fat. When done 
drain and serve with a little slice of delicately fried bacon on 
top of each cake. Garnish with fresh cress. 

Tile Turbot 

The boiled flsh, served with drawn butter in the usual 
way like cod, will make an excellent dinner fish, and what 
is left over may be utilized for a luncheon turbot the next 
day. For the turbot, flake the fish and put a layer in the 
bottom of a well buttered baking dish, next put in a layer 
of fine cnmibs with a little chopped onion and celery, and a 
little of the drawn butter if there is any left. Proceed in 
this way until the dish is full. Dust with pepper and 
salt, add a teaspoon of sugar and txim in a cup of sweet 



100 FisK 

milk, a gill of melted butter, and a half cup of sweet cream. 
Bake until it is a delicate brown, about half an hour usually, 
and serve hot. 

FQet of Tile 

Cut the fish in filets, dust with pepper and salt, and roll 
them in flour; dip them in beaten egg, then roll them in 
bread crumbs. Fry in deep fat a delicate brown, drain, and 
serve garnished with lemon and parsley. Have a sauce 
ready to put over them of tomato, highly seasoned and 
very smooth. Serve it in a hot tureen. 

Tflefish Rataplan 

Take three pounds of fresh boiled fish, drain and flake it 
while still hot. Have ready twenty-five oysters that have 
been sauted in butter. Turn them over the fish and over all 
turn a rich cream sauce. Garnish with toast sippets and 
parsley, dust the top with paprika, and serve very hot. 
This is a very elegant fish dish for special occasions. 

Escalloped Tile 

Flake two cups of the cold boiled fish, add a half cup of 
bread crumbs, a half cup of grated cheese, a half gill of 
melted butter, pepper, salt, a teaspoon of chopped tarragon 
leaves, the juice of an onion, a tablespoon of Worcestershire 
sauce, and the beaten white of one egg. Fill well buttered 
ramekins with the mixture and bake until the fish is a 
delicate brown. 

Broiled Shad 

Select a fresh meditmi-sized shad and have it carefully 
scaled and split. If it is thick enough an expert fishman 
can remove the backbone, which is a decided advantage. 
Rinse and dry the fish, then place it on a platter and cover 
it with the following warm mixture and let it stand twenty 



FisH loi 

minutes : Juice of one onion, jtiioe of half a lemon, a salt- 
spoon of pepper, a half teaspoon of salt, a gill of melted 
butter, three cloves, a teaspoon of Worcestershire sauce, 
and a quarter gill of white wine. Butter the gridiron well, 
drain the fish, and lay it skin down on the broiler; broil over 
a steady fire. Turn it only long enough to brown slightly, 
then slip it onto a hot platter and dust with pepper and salt 
and butter well ; strain and heat the sauce in which the fish 
marinated and add to it a teaspoon of fennel seed. 
Serve in a small ttireen. Garnish with broiled potatoes, 
parsley, and lemon quarters. 

Baked Shad, Vegetable Stuffing 

Prepare one good-sized shad for baking, leaving the head 
on. Take one pint of vegetable mac^doine, boil three 
minutes, then mash through a sieve; add one beaten egg, 
a half teaspoon of salt, a saltspoon of pepper, juice of an 
onion, three tablespoons of melted butter, three of 
cream, and a tablespoon of chutney syrup. Beat well 
together and add enough fine bread crumbs to hold it 
together; fill the fish not too full, then sew it up and use 
the rest of the stuffing in the head. Lay the fish on a well 
buttered rack, basting with a little melted butter, salt, 
pepper, lemon juice, and a tablespoon of madeira wine. 
When done lay on a bed of fresh cress on a hot platter and 
garnish it with hard-boiled egg rings and capers. Strain 
the gravy from the dripping pan and add it to a good cream 
sauce. Stir in thoroughly, but do not let it boil. 

Planked Shad 

(Recipe for the planking of any fish) 

Prepare the shad in the usual way for planking, have the 
plank ready heated, and fasten the fish, skin side down, 
using glass thumbtacks to hold it in place. The fish 
must be often tested with a fork to see if it is light and 



102 FisH 

flaky. When done, butter freely, sprinkle with pepper 
and salt, garnish the edge with mashed potato put through 
the pastry bag, parsley, and lemon quarters. Deviled 
eggs are also used as decorative garnish. 

Shad Cakes 

To two cups of flaked boiled shad add two cups of mashed 
potato, a tablespoon of butter, a level saltspoon of pepper, 
a half teaspoon of salt, one beaten egg, and enough sweet 
cream so that the mass can be molded by hand into cakes 
of the usual fish-cake size. Pry a delicate brown in hot fat, 
and serve on a hot platter with a broiled slice of bacon on 
top of each cake, and garnish with a little fresh cress. 

Creamed Shad with Asparagus 

Free from bone two cups of cold boiled or broiled shad, 
make a rich cream sauce not too heavy, dice into it one cold 
boiled egg and the fish. Take the tender stalks of freshly 
boiled asparagus cut in small pieces and add to the mixture. 
Have ready slices of toast arranged upon the platter, turn 
the fish over them, and garnish with sprays of fried parsley 
and the yolk of a hard-boiled egg, that has been put through 
the ricer, sprinkled over the top. 

Escalloped Shad 

To the meat of one boiled lobster cut very fine add two 
cups of boned cold boiled shad. Butter a deep baking 
dish, place a layer of the fish and lobster in the bottom, then 
a layer of bread crumbs, dot with butter, sprinkle with 
pepper and salt, then another layer of the shad and lobster, 
then the crumbs, butter, pepper, and salt, and so on tmtil the 
dish is filled. Beat one egg in one cup of milk, turn into the 
mixture, add a gill of cream, dust the top with pepper and 
salt and two tablespoons of grated English cheese. Bake, 
and when done serve in the dish in which it was cooked, 
placed in a silver container or wrapped in a napkin. 



Fish 103 

Shad Peppers 

One cup of cold boiled flaked shad, one cup of crab meat, 
small grated onion, half a cup of chopped celery, gill of 
melted butter, gill of cream, a saltspoon of salt, a half 
saltspoon of pepper, and tablespoon of grated cheese. Fill 
half green pepper shells with the mixture, place in well 
buttered baking dish, and bake a delicate brown. Serve as 
an entr6e for dinner. 

Shad Creole 

Boil one medium-sized shad. When done skin, bone, and 
flake; then add two eggs beaten in one cup of milk, three 
quarters of a cup of bread crumbs, a saltspoon of pepper 
and a half teaspoon of salt, juice of an onion, gill of melted 
butter, gill of cream; slice thin two medium-sized cuctunbers, 
pltmge them into boiling water for ten minutes, drain, 
slightly cool, add to the fish mixture; butter ramekins, fill 
them with the mixture, dust the top of each with a little 
grated English cheese, and bake. Garnish with a slice of 
lemon through which a spray of parsley is drawn. Use as an 
entree or for the fish course. 

Savory Shad Roe 

Wash and parboil one shad roe, putting it on in cold 
water and letting it slowly come to a boil, then let it boil 
tmtil it is done (fifteen to twenty minutes), but not broken to 
pieces. Drain and cool. Slice one cucumber thin, plunge 
into boiling water and let stand for ten minutes, drain, 
and while it is cooling make a very small quantity of cream 
sauce, put in the cucumber, add a saltspoon of pepper and 
half a teaspoon of salt, one grated onion, one teaspoon of 
fennel seed, teaspoon of Worcestershire sauce, two table- 
spoons of sherry. Now, with a very sharp knife, split the 
roe and put in the filh'ng, using all of the solid portion. 
Have a small, well buttered baking dish with a cover that 



104 FisK 

fits, and place the roe in it; turn the rest of the sauce over 
the roe, sprinkle with a few bread crumbs, dust with pepper 
and salt, and cover in the oven until all is thoroughly hot, 
cook ten or fifteen minutes, take off cover and brown. 
With great care place it on the platter without breaking and 
garnish with a little fresh cress and olive rings. 

Belgian Stuffed Shad 

Carefully split a thick shad and remove the backbone. 
Make a savory stuffing of a cup of bread crumbs, one cold 
boiled eggt chopped, one minced onion, one minced red 
pepper, a teaspoon of chopped parsley, a half gill of melted 
butter, and a teaspoon of chopped savory herbs. Add one 
beaten egg; mix the stuffing well; spread the lower half of 
the shad; place the upper half over it; dust it with pepper 
and salt; turn over two cups of strained tomato juice, and 
bake, basting often. When the shad is done remove it to a 
hot platter; add a cup of savory stock to the dish gravy, 
thicken slightly with a little butter and flour mixed to a 
cream, and strain it over the shad. 

Baked Red Snapper 

Have a five-pound red snapper cut and fixed for stuffing, 
leaving the head on. Wash the fish carefully, dust with 
pepper and salt, and place it in a well buttered baking pan 
on a few slices of pickled pork cut very thin. Make a 
savory stuffing of half a cup of shredded cold boiled lobster, 
— the rest of the lobster may be used for salad, — one cup of 
bread crumbs, half saltspoon of pepper, a half teaspoon of 
salt, a teaspoon of powdered savory herbs, a half teaspoon 
of hot Southern sauce, one beaten egg, two tablespoons of 
fresh grated pineapple, and half a cup of melted butter. 
Mix well and stuff the fish, leaving room for the stuffing to 
swell and placing what is left over in the head. Place a 
cup of water in the baking pan, cover the fish for fifteen 
minutes, and then baste with melted butter to which has 



rish 105 

been added the juice of a lemon, a little white wine, and a 
tablespoon of fennel seed. Baste often until the fish is 
done, which will be about forty minutes, remove carefully 
to the serving platter on which has been arranged a bed of 
cress, and garnish the edge of the platter with stuffed baked 
peppers and toast sippets. Place on the fish the white 
rings of hard-boiled eggs; make a rich cream sauce, not too 
thick, straining into it the dish gravy from the baking pan 
and coloring it a delicate green with Breton vegetable coloring. 

Planked Red Snapper 

For planking a small snapper must be chosen one not 
weighing more than three potmds. Prepare it in the usual 
way, adding to the melted butter which is turned over it 
two tablespoons of madeira wine in which a small spice 
bag has stood for an hour, a saltspoon each of salt and 
pepper, a half teaspoon of sugar, and a tablespoon of pine- 
apple juice. Before serving garnish the edge of the plank 
with mashed potato roses done with a pastry bag and 
fresh green peas that have been steamed in their pods. 

Snapper k la Carbon 

Flake a pound and a half of cold boiled red snapper, 
and to it add one cup of fresh boiled and shredded shrimps, 
three quarters of a cup of finely minced bread crumbs, the 
juice of one onion, a dusting of pepper and salt, half a cup 
of melted butter, and a cup of cream. Mix lightly and fill 
buttered ramekins with the mixture, grating a little old 
English cheese over the top of each ramekin. Bake to a 
delicate brown in a medium oven and serve with hot finger 
rolls on the side. Garnish with a spray of watercress. 

Snapper Chops 

Flake a pound and a half of boiled red snapper, add to it 
one cup of flaked crab meat, three quarters of a cup of 



io6 Fish 

bread crumbs, one grated onion, two tablespoons of melted 
butter, a saltspoon of pepper, a half teaspoon of salt, three 
drops of tabasco sauce, two beaten eggs, a gill of cream> and 
two tablespoons of tomato ketchup. Mix all thoroughly 
and shape into chops. If the mixture should be too moist 
add a few more dry bread crumbs. Roll the chops in 
beaten egg, then in fine crumbs, and fry them in hot fat. 
When done drain carefully and stick in each a pastry 
stick three inches long to represent the bone. Pile on a 
platter garnished with fried parsley, slices of broiled potatoes, 
and lemon cut in quarters. 

Snapper k la Newburg 

Flake one pound and a half of cold boiled red snapper, 
drain and dry one pint of oysters, add them to the fish, 
add a saltspoon of pepper, a heaping saltspoon of salt, four 
thinly sliced trufiSes, a teaspoon of onion juice, one anchovy, 
and six pitted and thinly sliced olives. Make the New- 
burg sauce in the usual way, add the other ingredients, 
mix thoroughly, and allow them to boil up for two minutes 
in the chafing dish, when it will be ready to serve. 

Codfish Broiled and in Balls 

Salt codfish comes to market in several forms, but the 
big whole fish is by far the best to buy. It makes the best 
fish balls, and when a portion is soaked over night and 
delicately broiled it makes a most inviting breakfast dish. 
The fish comes also cut in square pieces and packed in 
boxes, and is less trouble in this form than the big fish» 
but it has not quite as good flavor. That which is desic- 
cated is usually flat and tasteless. The whole fish will cost 
fifty or sixty cents and will yield one breakfast broil and 
two breakfasts of fish cakes. These are made by adding 
six or eight mashed potatoes to the fish, with a heaping 
tablespoon of butter, a gill of cream, and one egg. The fish 
should be soaked over night, then scalded and simmered 



FisK 107 

gently until tender, but not allowed to boil, then flaked, 
£reed from skin and bones, and mashed, when it is ready 
for the potato and seasoning. 

Cuiried Codfish 

For the curried codfish for two persons take two large 
slices; for four persons, increase in proportion; flake them 
and fry in three ounces of butter and one grated onion. Then 
put in a stewpan with a teacup of white stock, thicken 
slightly with butter and flour creamed together, stir in a 
quarter of a pint of cream, season to taste, and let it boil up 
once and serve. To the stock in which the cod is stewed 
add a small spoonful of curry powder and let it simmer for 
an hour the day before serving, thus very much improving 
the flavor. Garnish with broiled potatoes and fried parsley, 
and turn onto slices of toast. 

Codfish Pie 

Line a baking dish with good puff paste. Boil two and 
a half pounds of fresh cod, and when cold strip from the 
bones, flake fine, add a half saltspoon of pepper, a saltspoon 
of salt, two minced onions, a few fine bread crumbs, one cup 
of milk in which two eggs have been beaten, and plenty of 
butter. Pill the pie with the mixture. Cut the crust into 
strips and lattice the top and bake a delicate brown. Serve 
hot. 

Codfish Pie 

Free from bone, skin, and flake enough cold boiled codfish 
to make two cupfuls. Add to it one dozen raw oysters, or 
one dozen little round dams that have been steamed; one 
gill of melted butter, one gill of sweet cream, a half saltspoon 
of pepper, a saltspoon of salt, the juice of an onion, and 
one beaten egg. Have ready a small pie plate lined with 
crust, pour the mixture in, and spread over the top a layer of 



io8 FisK 

mashed potato; then put on the top crust and bake. This 
pie is best hot, but may also be eaten cold. 

Codfish att Gratin 

Take two pounds of fresh boiled codfish, flake it after 
freeing it from skin and bone, add a cup of bread crumbs, 
the juice of an onion and a tablespoon of chopped chives, 
half saltspoon of pepper and half teaspoon of salt, a gill of 
melted butter, one egg beaten in a small cup of sweet milk, 
three tablespoons of grated cheese, and a gill of cream. 
Put in well buttered baking shells and bake a delicate 
brown. Serve hot finger rolls with the fish and garnish 
with a spray of cress and a radish rose. 

Cod Peppers 

Lightly flake a small quantity of boiled codfish, add eight 
shrimp broken in small pieces, saltspoon of pepper half 
teaspoon of salt, juice of an onion, juice of half a lemon, a 
generous amotmt of butter; fill half pepper shells, grate a 
little cheese on the surface, and bake in a moderate oven 
until a delicate brown. 

Cod Croquettes 

To two cups of cold boiled codfish finely flaked add a cup 
of fine bread crumbs, one egg^ seasoning, a lump of butter, 
and a gill of cream. Form into croquettes, roll in egg and 
fine crumbs, to which has been added a slight grating of 
cheese; fry to a delicate brown in butter, drain, and serve 
on a doily, garnished with cress and lemon quarters. Serve 
the shrimp sauce in a silver sauce-boat. Melt enough 
butter to make one third of a pint, shell and shred half a 
can of Barataria shrimp, add cayenne pepper, a teaspoon 
of finely chopped parsley, half a teaspoon of onion juice, 
and half a teaspoon of mustard sauce, and serve hot. 



Fish 109 

Creamed Codfish on Toast 

Bone and flake two pounds of cold boiled codfish. Make 
a good cream sauce, slice two hard-boiled eggs through 
it, add the fish, and serve on slices of toast arranged on a 
hot platter. Garnish with sprays of fresh ctess and toast 
sippets. 

Creamed Codfish Tongaes 

Parboil as many tongues as are needed to allow'one to a 
portion. When done, remove root and skin and have ready 
a French cream sauce made in the following way: Put in a 
saucepan half a cup of butter, and when melted add the 
juice of a lemon, add as much bicarbonate of soda as would 
cover a ten-cent piece, and then add a large cup of rich milk 
that has had a dessertspoon of cornstarch dissolved in it. 
Stir until it is smooth, then add pepper,salt, and the tongues. 
When all is hot, serve. 

Pineapple Cod en Casserole 

Take two pounds of cod steak and boil the usual way; 
when done, drain, bone, and flake. Place in a well buttered 
casserole, dust with pepper and salt, and turn over it a 
gill of melted butter, the juice of one onion, and a tablespoon 
of chutney syrup. Boil hard two eggs and slice them 
thinly over the fish, then add one cup of freshly grated 
pineapple, two tablespoons of grated bread crumbs, and last 
of all one cup of carefully made brown sauce. If desired, a 
dozen tiny potato balls, fashioned with the cutter, may be 
added. 

PblishFOled Fish 

Take a five-pound cod, tile, or any other fish liked, and 
after it is scaled and cleaned split it down the back and 
remove carefully the backbone. Have ready a highly 
seasoned filling and stuff the fish, not too full; then sew up 



no FisK 

the back and sew up the apron, filling the head with the 
remainder of the stuffing. Turn a little olive oil over the 
fish, dust it with pepper and salt, and bake it, basting it 
with a little melted butter in which the juice of half a lemon 
and an onion have been squeezed and a few fennel seeds 
added. Serve garnished with slices of broiled potato and 
parsley. 

Codfish Turbot 

Flake, skin, and bone two pounds of boiled codfish. 
Place a layer of the fish in a well buttered pudding dish» 
then a layer of fine dry crumbs, a little finely minced onion, 
a dusting of pepper and salt. Repeat the layers until the 
dish is full, then add a cup of cream, a gill of melted butter, 
and a cup of sweet milk. Bake in a medium oven forty 
minutes or more until it is a good brown. 

Cod in Ramekins 

Take two pounds of cold boiled codfish, freed from all 
skin and bone and flaked; add to it one green pepper, one 
little piece of green celery, or leaves, twelve olives, stoned, 
all chopped fine; add also one cup of dry bread crumbs, 
the juice of an onion, a gill of melted butter and one of 
cream, and one beaten egg, a saltspoon each of pepper and 
salt, and a teaspoon of sugar; mix thoroughly together 
and fill buttered ramekins with the mixture. Bake and 
serve garnished with a spray of parsley. 

Escalloped Codfish 

Boil, bone, and flake two pounds of fresh codfish. Add a 
cup of bread crumbs, one finely grated onion, butter, 
pepper and salt, and a half cup of cream. Pill buttered 
ramekins with the mixture, bake a delicate brown; garnish 
with a spray of watercress and lay a finger roll beside the 
ramekin. 



FisK 1 1 1 

Mock Scallops 

From good-sized codfish steaks one inch thick cut small 
rounds the size of scallops. Dip them in egg, then in fine 
crumbs, and fry in deep hot fat a delicate brown. Drain on 
blotting paper and serve garnished with cress and sliced 
lemon. Serve in the sauce-boat a smooth, highly seasoned 
tomato sauce. 

JelUed Cod 

Take two pounds of cold boiled codfish, skin, bone, and 
flake it with a silver fork. Take one small can of tomatoes, 
add to it one finely chopped onion, chopped stalk of celery, 
tablespoon of Worcestershire sauce, a saltspoon of pepper, 
and a half teaspoon of salt, and let the mixture simmer for 
twenty minutes, then add a teaspoon of sugar and a pinch 
of bicarbonate of soda; set back from the fire and add a 
heaping tablespoon of gelatine powder, which has been 
dissolved in a little cold water. When all is thoroughly 
melted, strain carefully into the fish; when slightly cool add 
one tablespoon of mayonnaise sauce, one cuf) of whipped 
cream, and turn into small cold molds that have been lined 
with a coating of aspic jelly, then set away to chill. When 
turned out onto the service plates garnish each with sprays 
of parsley and chopped aspic. 

Flounder & Pltalienne 

Select a large thick flounder and have it fileted. Dust the 
filets with salt and pepper; then dip them into an egg which 
has been beaten with a tablespoon of hot melted butter 
and fry them in deep hot fat. Have ready a sauce, made 
by rubbing together two level tablespoons each of butter 
and flour; to this cream, add a half pint of boiling water 
and stir until the sauce boils. Add a teaspoon of onion 
juice, a teaspoon of kitchen bouquet, a half saltspoon of 
cayenne pepper, a half teaspoon of salt, and two tablespoons 
of finely chopped button mushrooms. Allow it to boil for 



no FisK 

the back and sew up the apron, filling the head with the 
remainder of the stuflSng. Turn a little olive oil over the 
fish, dust it with pepper and salt, and bake it, basting it 
with a little melted butter in which the juice of half a lemon 
and an onion have been squeezed and a few fennel seeds 
added. Serve garnished with slices of broiled potato and 
parsley. 

Codfish Turbot 

Flake, skin, and bone two pounds of boiled codfish. 
Place a layer of the fish in a well buttered pudding dish, 
then a layer of fine dry crumbs, a little finely minced onion, 
a dusting of pepper and salt. Repeat the layers until the 
dish is full, then add a cup of cream, a gill of melted butter, 
and a cup of sweet milk. Bake in a medium oven forty 
minutes or more until it is a good brown. 

Cod in Ramekins 

Take two pounds of cold boiled codfish, freed from all 
skin and bone and flaked; add to it one green pepper, one 
little piece of green celery, or leaves, twelve olives, stoned, 
all chopped fine; add also one cup of dry bread crumbs, 
the juice of an onion, a gill of melted butter and one of 
cream, and one beaten egg, a saltspoon each of pepper and 
salt, and a teaspoon of sugar; mix thoroughly together 
and fill buttered ramekins with the mixture. Bake and 
serve garnished with a spray of parsley. 

Escalloped Codfish 

Boil, bone, and flake two pounds of fresh codfish. Add a 
cup of bread crumbs, one finely grated onion, butter, 
pepper and salt, and a half cup of cream. Fill buttered 
ramekins with the mixture, bake a delicate brown; garnish 
with a spray of watercress and lay a finger roll beside the 
ramekin. 



FisK III 

Mock Scallops 

From good-sized codfish steaks one inch thick cut small 
rounds the size of scallops. Dip them in egg, then in fine 
crumbs, and fry in deep hot fat a delicate brown. Drain on 
blotting paper and serve garnished with cress and sliced 
lemon. Serve in the sauce-boat a smooth, highly seasoned 
tomato sauce. 

JeUied Cod 

Take two pounds of cold boiled codfish, skin, bone, and 
flake it with a silver fork. Take one small can of tomatoes, 
add to it one finely chopped onion, chopped stalk of celery, 
tablespoon of Worcestershire sauce, a saltspoon of pepper, 
and a half teaspoon of salt, and let the mixture simmer for 
twenty minutes, then add a teaspoon of sugar and a pinch 
of bicarbonate of soda; set back from the fire and add a 
heaping tablespoon of gelatine powder, which has been 
dissolved in a little cold water. When all is thoroughly 
melted, strain carefully into the fish; when slightly cool add 
one tablespoon of mayonnaise sauce, one cut> of whipped 
cream, and turn into small cold molds that have been lined 
with a coating of aspic jelly, then set away to chill. When 
turned out onto the service plates garnish each with sprays 
of parsley and chopped aspic. 

Flounder & lltalienne 

Select a large thick flotmder and have it fileted. Dust the 
filets with salt and pepper; then dip them into an egg which 
has been beaten with a tablespoon of hot melted butter 
and fry them in deep hot fat. Have ready a sauce, made 
by rubbing together two level tablespoons each of butter 
and flour; to this cream, add a half pint of boiling water 
and stir until the sauce boils. Add a teaspoon of onion 
juice, a teaspoon of kitchen bouquet, a half saltspoon of 
cayenne pepper, a half teaspoon of salt, and two tablespoons 
of finely chopped button mushrooms. Allow it to boil for 



112 FisH 

three minutes after the mushrooms have been added, stir- 
ring carefully. When done, turn the sauce into a hot dish 
and arrange the filets in it, garnishing the platter with 
small potato croquettes. 

FOet of Sole 

. Filet the sole in the usual way, roll and pin the filets 
each with a wooden pick, dip in egg and fine crumbs, fry in 
hot lard, placing in frying basket, and drain carefully. Serve 
garnished with lemon and parsley and place the sauce in a 
small sauce-boat. 

Filet of Sole, Grape Sauce 

Prepare the filet of sole in the usual way, frying it a 
delicate brown, then garnishing it with parsley and lemon 
quarters. Grape sauce, which should be served hot in a 
small tureen, is made by taking two pounds of ripe Isabella 
grapes and squeezing them in the jelly bag, cold; put the 
juice in a saucepan and add a half cup of sugar, a half salt- 
spoon of red pepper, a little spice bag and a half lemon 
thinly sliced with the seeds removed. Boil gently for ten 
minutes; if it is then not thick enough, boil down for five 
minutes more, then strain into the tureen and serve. The 
sauce should be about the consistency of strained honey. 

Flounder k la Turque 

Skin, trim, wash, and dry one large flounder. On one 
side make a cut down the center from near head to near 
tail and raise the flesh from the bones. Make a stufiing 
with two tablespoons of butter, two teaspoons of Worcester- 
shire sauce, one teaspoon of chopped parsley, three table- 
spoons of bread crumbs, saltspoon of salt, half saltspoon of 
pepper, half a teaspoon of powdered herbs, grated rind and 
juice of half a, lemon, half a beaten egg, and half a cup of 
picked shrimps. Mix thoroughly and insert under the filets 
of flounder, leaving the center open. Brush the flounder 



FisK 113 

over with the remainder of the egg, sprinkle it with 
brown bread crumbs, and bake for thirty minutes on a well 
buttered tin. Serve tartare sauce with this fish. 

Fflet of Sole in Cases 

Put one teacup of finely chopped mushrooms into a 
trying pan, with two tablespoons of shalots and one table- 
spoon of parsley, also chopped fine; add a lump of butter 
and season with a saltspoon each of pepper and salt. Toss 
the ingredients over the fire until they are cooked, then set 
aside to cool. When cold, take the filets, mask one side of 
them with the above mixture, and roll them up, securing 
them with a piece of thread; then place them between 
two hot buttered plates and bake them. While they are 
baking, prepare a little white cream sauce. When done, 
put each filet into a small paper case, put a small broiled 
mushroom on top of each, then fill up the cases with the 
hot sauce, and serve. 

Stuffed or Rolled Flounder 

Have the flounders split and boned, and the heads and 
tails cut off. Prepare a stufSng with one cup of bread 
crumbs, one cup of cold boiled lobster cut very fine, one 
beaten egg, three tablespoons of melted butter, two 
tablespoons of tomato ketchup, seasoning, and a little 
cream to hold it together. Spread on the fish, and roll 
and tie with kitchen binder. Dust with a little pepper, 
salt, and flour; place the fish in a well buttered baking dish, 
basting every few minutes with melted butter, and when 
done serve hot, garnished with parsley, broiled potatoes, 
and lemon quarters. Serve a hot smooth tomato dressing 
in the tureen. 

Baked Halibut 

Have a halibut steak cut one and a half inches thick, 
wash and dry it carefully. Have a small roasting pan well 
buttered and sprinkled with finely minced onion, pepper 

8 



1 14 FisK 

and salt, and lay in the fish. Sprinkle with the onion, 
a dusting of pepper and salt, a teaspoon of lemon juice, 
a gill of good stock, and the beaten yolk of an egg. 
Put generous lumps of butter over it and bake thirty min- 
utes. Serve with a rich tomato dressing. If liked, just 
before it is done a little bit of grated cheese may be sprinkled 
over the top. Garnish with parsley and hard-boiled egg 
rings and serve hot. 

Halibut au Gratin 

Take a pound and a half of cold boiled halibut, free 
from skin and bone, and flake. Add one small grated 
onion, a teaspoon of chopped parsley, a gill of melted 
butter, a half saltspoon of pepper, a saltspoon of salt, a 
tablespoon of Worcestershire sauce, one beaten egg, and 
two tablespoons of grated cheese. Mix all thoroughly 
with the fish and add three quarters of a cup of light cream 
or rich milk. Fill well buttered ramekins with the mixture, 
dusting a little of the cheese over the top of each, and bake. 
Garnish with a spray of watercress and dry toast fingers. 

Halibut Turbot 

Boil three potmds of halibut, remove skin and bone, and 
flake it carefully. Boil in a little water a bunch of parsley, 
one large onion, and a stalk of finely chopped celery, to 
extract their flavor; strain and thicken with two tablespoons 
of flour, creamed with half a cup of soft butter, add- 
ing slowly to it a pint of hot cream. Mix lightly with 
the fish and fill well buttered ramekins with the mixture, 
sprinkling a few bread crumbs over the top, with pepper, 
salt, and little bits of butter. Bake a delicate brown and 
garnish with cress. 

Deviled Halibut 

Boil two and a half pounds of halibut, tnen free it from 
skin, bone, and flake it. Have ready chopped fine one large 



Fish 115 

onion, six Spanish peppers (those canned in oil), eight olives, 
and a stalk of celery. Add a cup of fine crumbs and add the 
mixture to the fish, with two tablespoons of chutney syrup, 
a tablespoon of Worcestershire sauce, a cup of tart apple 
sauce, a gill of melted butter, and the whites of two eggs 
stiffly beaten. Put into well buttered baking shells or 
ramekins and bake from twenty to forty minutes, covering 
them the first fifteen. 

Pineai^le Halibut 

Prepare and brofl sufficient halibut steak for the ntunber 
to be served. Have ready a rich English brown sauce 
which has had added to it after it has been strained and 
thickened, a cup of fresh grated pineapple. Serve the fish 
on a hot platter, turn the sauce over it, and garnish with 
rice croquettes and fresh cress. 

Halibut Macaxoni 

Flake two potmds of fresh boiled or cold left-over fish, re- 
moving all skin and bones. Boil one half poimd of macaroni 
in salt water tmtil tender, then cut it in small pieces. Mix 
the fish, macaroni, and three ounces of grated cheese, and 
put into ramekin dishes lined with thinly rolled puff paste. 
Put grated cheese and butter on top, brown in the oven and 
serve very hot. 

Baked Bluefish 

Have the bluefish cleaned and washed, leaving the head 
on for baking, which may be filled with dressing. Make any 
good, savory stuffing, and when filled sew up the fish and, 
after placing in a well buttered baking pan, brush over the 
surface with a little thin sugar syrup so that a thin sprin- 
kling of bread crumbs will adhere to it; add a dusting of 
pepper and salt, and while baking baste with white wine in 



ii6 Fish 

which there is a little melted butter, juice of half a lemon» 
two cloves, and one small bayleaf . 
Blue fish is in season from early spring to late fall. 

Broiled Bluefish 

This recipe will answer for the broiling of all kinds of 
fish, large or small. 

Scale and rinse the fish before splitting it down the 
belly. Dust it with pepper and salt, brush the flesh side of 
the fish with butter; grease the gridiron (or broiler) with a 
greased cloth or bit of suet, and lay the fish upon it. If 
the fish is broiled under gas place the flesh side up ; if broiled 
over coals place the flesh side down, turning to broil the 
skin side last. It will take from twenty to thirty minutes 
to broil the fish properly over coals; perhaps a little longer 
under gas. 

Fried Smelts 

Select fresh, green smelts and after rinsing them, make 
a slight opening at the gills with a sharp knife or pair of 
scissors, then draw the smelt through the thtimb and 
fingers to remove the intestines; wash, dry, dust with a 
little pepper and salt, and roll in very fine, dry bread 
crumbs, after dipping them in egg. Place in a wire frying 
basket, fry a delicate brown in deep fat; when done, remove, 
drain, serve in a napkin, and garnish with lemon quarters 
and cress. Serve tartare sauce in the sauce-boat. In 
season from fall to early spring. 

Fried Eels 

To prepare eels for frying or stewing skin them, clean, 
and cut off the heads, then cut them into pieces two inches 
long. If they are to be fried dip them in egg and then in fine 
crumbs, fry in deep fat until a delicate brown, serve gar- 
nished with fresh cress. If they are to be stewed cover the 
pieces with boiling water to which is added the juice of a 



FisK 117 

lemon and the juice of an onion; simmer ten minutes. 
Melt a tablespoon of butter in a saucepan and mix with it 
two tablespoons of flour; when smooth add slowly a cup of 
the water in which the eels have been boiling, then stir 
the gravy in with the eels. Cover and stew for twenty- 
five minutes. Season to taste and serve turned over slices 
of toast, garnished with parsley. In season from spring to 
fall. Smoked eels broiled or baked are a favorite Southern 
breakfast dish. 

Creamed Mackerel 

Soak the salt mackerel for twelve hours, changing the 
water four times. Then lay it in a shallow stewpan, cover 
with milk, and simmer for twenty minutes. Remove the 
fish carefully and place it on a hot dish; thicken the 
milk with butter and flour rubbed to a cream, add a quarter 
saltspoon of salt, a teaspoon of chopped tarragon leaves, 
and turn the sauce over the mackerel. In season in winter. 

Broiled Mackerel Southern Style 

Soak the salt mackerel for forty-eight hours, changing the 
water three times. Wipe the fish dry, lay it on a greased 
gridiron and broil. When it is done smear it with butter, 
add a slight sprinkling of pepper; dish on a hot plate and 
garnish with lemon quarters and cress. 

Fresh mackerel may be served broiled, baked, or in any 
of the ways in which halibut is served. In season from 
early spring to fall. 

Pto Fish 

All small fish may be purchased from the fish monger who 
will clean and prepare them for frying. Each season gives 
enough variety of these small fish to make them a stand- 
ard breakfast dish. They may also be stewed; see perch 
recipe. 



118 Fish 

Baked Finnan Haddie 

Select a short, thick finnan haddie, soak in cold water 
for ten minutes, dry with a soft doth, lay in a buttered 
baking pan, spread generously with butter on the flesh side, 
dust very sparingly with pepper, and pour over a small cup 
of cream. Bake tmtil tender (about half^an hour), remove 
carefully, and serve. 

Finnan Haddie k la King 

Boil the fish until it is done, about twenty mmutes, then 
flake it free from skin and bone with a silver fork. Put 
into the chafing dish a large tablespoon of butter with six 
button mushrooms halved, a chopped red pepper, and a 
teaspoon of chopped chives; when these have saut^ for 
five minutes add the fish, then a gill of cream in which a yolk 
of an egg has been stirred, and a half gill of sherry. Blend 
well together and serve on toast slices, garnished with egg 
rings and olive curls. 

Pineapple Pike 

Skin, bone, and filet a good sized pike; dust with pepper 
and salt, and dip in a little salt pork fat that has been fried 
out from two slices of salt pork, and in which the juice of 
an onion has been squeezed. Drain off and broil the 
fish until it is a delicate brown. Have ready a brown sauce 
made of a half pound of diced top round steak and a half 
pound of lean pork ; put on to boil in a pint of water. When 
cooked down, strain and add a cup of finely chopped fresh 
pineapple, six water chestnuts cut fine, and a tablespoon of 
cut bamboo sprouts. Let all simmer gently, then thicken 
with a little browned flour. Turn over the fish and garnish 
with spoonfuls of crisply fried Chinese egg noodles. 

Fried Frogs' Legs 

Select as many frogs* legs as are needed to allow a pair to 
a portion, two pair if the legs are small. Blanche them for 



FioK 1 19 

five minutes in boiling water, drain, wipe dry, dust with 
flour, and fry in a frying basket plunged into hot fat. 
Serve piled En a napkin, with tartare sauce in the sauce- 
boat. In season in early spring, summer, and fall. 

Creamed Frogs' Legs 

Blanche the frogs' legs the same as for frying, then par- 
boil them gently for ten minutes. Make and have ready a 
good cream sauce, not too thick, but well seasoned; drain 
the legs and put them into the sauce; add a teaspoon of 
chopped tarragon leaves, and serve the frogs' legs in a hol- 
lowed loaf of bread garnished with parsley and lemon 
quarters. The same number of frogs are used in this 
recipe as in the preceding one, allowing a pair to a portion. 

Fish Forcemeat 

Put through the meat chopper about two pounds of raw 
haddock, or fresh codfish, then put it into a bowl and rub 
with the potato mashed tmtil very smooth. Add a half 
teaspoon of salt, a half cup of cream, two tablespoons of 
melted butter, a saltspoon of pepper, a slight grating of 
nutmeg, a teaspoon of chopped tarragon leaves, a grated 
onion, and one beaten egg. Add, also, one tablespoon of 
cornstarch which may be moistened with a little of the 
cream. Turn all the ingredients, after they are mixed, into 
a well buttered pudding mold and bake a half hour. Serve 
hot, with a good smooth tomato sauce, drawn butter, or 
any other sauce liked. 

Pompano Stuffed with Lobster 

Select a fresh pompano, remove the head and tail. Split 
as for broiling and remove the bone. Boil a lobster weigh- 
ing about a pound and a half. Remove meat and save all of 
the coral. Put the meat through a meat chopper, mix 
it with a small cup of cream sauce. Season with a teaspoon 
of salt and a saltspoon of paprika. Lastly, stir in a table- 



120 FisH 

spoon of sherry, and mix thoroughly. Lay the split 
pompano skin side down, and spread thickly with the 
lobster forcemeat. Garnish the fish with truffles cut in 
fancy shapes and hard-boiled eggs, whites and yolks chopped 
separately, and the coral of the lobster cut in strips. Pour 
a little salted water in the pan, cover the fish with buttered 
paper, and steam in hot oven for half an hoiu*. When done 
place on a hot dish on a bed of shredded lettuce. Put a 
few shrimps arotmd the bed on the lettuce, and cover with 
shrimp sauce. 

Pompano is in season from mid-winter to early summer. 

Weakfish Pudding 

Boil a three-pound weakfish for twenty minutes. When 
done skin, bone, and flake the fish. Add to the flaked meat 
three quarters of a cup of dry bread crumbs, one large 
grated onion, a tablespoon of chutney syrup, a saltspoon of 
pepper, a teaspoon of salt, two beaten eggs, a gill of melted 
butter; put the mixture into a buttered pudding mold, 
cover, set in boiling water, and boil an hour and a half, 
being sure that no water boils into the mold. Unmold the 
pudding on a hot platter and have ready a pint of rich 
drawn butter to turn over it. In season all sununer. 

Bombay (Weakfish) Toast 

Take a cup and a half of left-over boiled or baked weak- 
fish and flake it. Moisten it with a smooth, plain tomato 
sauce, or a drawn butter sauce, or a brown gravy. Heat it 
hot and turn over toast slices. This makes a nice break- 
fast or luncheon dish. 

Tuna Fish Pities 

Take one can of tuna fish, drain and flake it, then add 
one small grated onion, a half cup of chopped celery, and 
one finely chopped green pepper. Turn over the fish one 



rish 121 

cup of cream sauce and mix all well together. Line large 
ramekins with good pastry and fill them with the mixture, 
adding a teaspoon of melted butter to each, and put a 
lattice of the crust over the top. Bake until the pastry 
is done and set away to cool. 

Tuna Fish Croquettes 

Take one small can of tuna fish, drain and flake it with a 
silver fork; add one very finely minced onion, three quarters 
of a cup of fine dried bread crumbs, saltspoon of pepper, 
half teaspoon of salt, one beaten egg, teaspoon of Wor- 
cestershire sauce, small teaspoon of sugar, and a tablespoon 
of melted butter. Mix well and form the mixture into small 
croquettes. Dip each in egg and fine crumbs and fry in 
hot fat a delicate brown. Drain and serve on a hot platter 
garnished with parsley and peas carefully drained. 

Escalloped Tuna Fish 

Take a small can of tuna fish, drain and flake. Add a 
half cup of celery, six olives, one pepper, and two spra3rs 
of watercress, all finely chopped. A half cup of bread 
crumbs, a gill of melted butter, a half saltspoon of pepper, 
a half teaspoon of salt, juice of an onion, a tablespoon of 
chutney syrup, and two beaten eggs. Fill well buttered 
ramekins with the mixture and sprinkle a Uttle grated cheese 
over the top and bake. 

Tuna Loaf 

Beat one egg tmtil light and add one cup of bread crumbs, 
one cup of flaked Tuna, one cup of sweet milk, a saltspoon 
of salt, a half saltspoon of pepper, teaspoon of lemon juice, 
and a half teaspoon of onion juice. Mix well, press the 
mixture into a buttered loaf pan and bake twenty-five 
minutes. Garnish with hard-boiled eggs and serve with 
draiwn butter. 



122 FisH 

Make the drawn butter by melting one fourth cup of 
butter and adding one tablespoon of flour. Add gradually 
one cup of hot water, salt and pepper, and one tablespoon 
of lemon juice, and bring to a boil. 

Tima Baked in Peppers 

Remove the seeds and ribs from six sweet green peppers, 
and soak them in cold, salted water. Beat four eggs and 
add two cups of flaked Ttma, one cup of bread crumbs, 
one cup of sweet milk, level teaspoon of salt, half saltspoon 
of pepper, and a half teaspoon of lemon juice. Pack the 
Tuna mixture into the pepper shells and sprinkle with bread 
crumbs and dot with butter. Bake imtil the peppers are 
done and the crumbs nicely browned. K the peppers 
are quite large, they may be cut in halves lengthwise and 
filled with the mixttue. Serve hot. 

Spanish Mackerel 

Spanish mackerel, though its season is short, is a very 
popular fish; it is delicious broiled, it is good baked if 
plenty of butter is used with it, and is acceptable boiled. 
In season in spring. 

Bass, deep-sea trout, ling, carp, haddock, and kingfish are 
all acceptable in their seasons, and are cooked after the 
recipes given for boiling, broiling, and baking. 

Stewed Perch 

Clean and prepare the perch in the usual way, then lay 
them in a stewpan with a pint of stock and half a pint of 
sherry, a bud of garlic, bay leaf, some sweet herbs, two 
cloves, a saltspoon of salt, and a half saltspoon of pepper. 
Stew tmtil done; then take out the fish, strain and thicken 
the gravy, adding a dash of nutmeg and a teaspoon of 
anchovy sauce. Turn over the fish and serve. 



Fish 123 

WATS OF SERVING COLD FISH 

Tuna Fish M^goon 

Drain one medium-sized can of ttma fish and flake it with 
a silver fork. Add to it a gill of melted butter, half salt- 
spoon of pepper, saltspoon of salt, a tablespoon of chut- 
ney syrup, a tablespoon of chopped parsley, a gill of 
cream, and three tablespoons of bread crumbs that have 
been fried in butter and carefully drained. Chop and add 
two cold boiled eggs and the stifiSy beaten white of one 
egg; mix all together and fill well buttered ramekins with the 
mixture, grating a little English cheese over the top of each. 
Bake a delicate brown. These may be served hot or cold; 
garnish each with a slice of delicately toasted bacon. 

Curried Bluefish 

Boil a three-pound bluefish. When done and cold free it 
from all skin and bone and flake it. Have ready a cup and a 
half of rich tomato curry made of one can of tomatoes, a bay 
leaf, a tablespoon of butter, a saltspooii each of pepper and 
salt, sliced onion, stalk of celery, and a little finely chopped 
ham, adding a half teaspoon of curry powder. After it has 
cooked half an hour, strain, thicken slightly, and add the 
fish, with one cup of fine, dry bread crumbs, a little chopped 
parsley, . and six chopped truffles. Fill buttered ramekins 
with the mixture, dust the top pf each with a little grated 
English cheese, and bake. When done set aside to cool, but 
do not chill. 

Molded Snapper 

Flake two pounds of cold boiled red snapper and add a 
cup of bread crumbs, a saltspoon each of pepper and salt, 
half a cup of melted butter, one beaten egg in a gill of cream, 
and three tablespoons of grated cheese. Mix the ingredients 
thoroughly, adding a half teaspoon of hot Southern sauce. 



124 FisK 

Put the mixture in a well buttered baking mold, bake to a 
delicate brown, and when cool set it in the icebox to chill. 
Turn on to a platter and garnish the edge of the mold with 
watercress and as many bimches containing three or four 
stalks of cold boiled asparagus caught with green pepper 
rings as there are portions to be served, the asparagus having 
been allowed to marinate in French dressing for twenty 
minutes. Serve mayonnaise over each portion of the 
mold, laying the bunch of asparagus at one side of the 
plate, 

Salmon Vernon 

Boil and cool fresh salmon filets, place on lettuce leaves, 
and put in a cool place. Take fresh, crisp cucumbers, 
pare them and with a thin knife, after cutting them in half, 
cut them around thinly as if paring an apple, until freed 
from the seeds, then roll tightly and slice down very thin, 
mixing the thin rings up lightly like noodles; cover them 
thickly with salt and let them stand thus for twenty minutes. 
Rinse off the salt, dry them in a soft doth, and sprinkle 
them over the filets. Garnish each dish with a little strip 
of red pepper and serve with tartare sauce. 

Tile in Cucumber Jelly 

fake two pounds of freshly boiled tile, drain and flake 
it. When cold place it in a wet jelly mold, first a layer of the 
fish, then a thin layer of vegetable mac^doine, continuing 
in this manner tmtil the mold is three quarters full. Next 
take a heaping tablespoon and a half of powdered gelatine, 
a half cup of water, four tablespoons of vinegar, a half 
teaspoon of salt, a teaspoon of onion juice, and four good- 
sized cucumbers that have been grated. Stir all over a 
gentle heat tmtil thoroughly mixed. If the mixtiu'e is a 
little thick, add a little French dressing, use a few drops of 
green vegetable coloring, and turn all into the mold over the 
fish and set away to chill and harden. When ready for 



TisK 125 

use turn the molded fish out on green lettuce leaves and 
heap with mayonnaise. 

Snapper in Aspic 

Prepare and boil a three-pound red snapper. Carefully 
drain it and when cool lay it in a mold which has been wet 
in cold water and garnish with slices of cold hard-boiled 
egg and half cucumbers hollowed and filled with caviar and 
laid around the edge of the mold with little heaps of cold 
boiled shrimps between them. Turn over all a good aspic 
jelly colored a delicate green with Breton coloring. When 
thoroughly set and chilled and ready to serve place a baking 
sheet over the mold, turn the aspic on it, have the platter 
ready and turn the jellied fish back on it. Garnish with 
sprays of cress drawn through thin slices of lemon. In 
serving put a tablespoon of mayonnaise on each portion. 

Pickled Salmon 

Boil three pounds of salmon and when cold lay it in a 
crock with a half ounce of whole spice, a teaspoon of 
salt, a saltspoon of cayenne pepper, two bay leaves, a cup 
of vinegar, and a cup of the water the fish was boiled in. 
Let stand twelve hours; then it is ready for use. 

Molded Shad 

Choose a fine shad with roe. Clean the fish thoroughly, 
*then draw together, fastening the body and the head with a 
linen thread. Place at the bottom of a fish kettle two 
carrots diced, four cloves, two thinly sliced onions, a bud of 
garlic, two bay leaves, a teaspoon of salt, a saltspoon of 
pepper; then lay the shad on top and cover with a quart of 
claret. Put in a frying pan a glass of olive oil and when hot 
throw in six cloves of garlic, a saltspoon of rosemary, and 
fry for five minutes. Strain this oil with a quarter cup 
of tarragon vinegar into the shad broth. Now place the fish 



126 FisH 

kettle over the fire and when it begins to boil draw it to one 
side and let it simmer for half an hour. When cooked put 
in six leaves of good gelatine and replace the cover, and 
allow it to stand and cool. Serve on a long fish plate with 
the following vinaigrette: 

A tablespoon of chopped chervil, a tablespoon of chopped 
capers, a teaspoon of mixed mustard, two tablespoons of 
Worcestershire sauce, a saltspoon of pepper and a half 

■ 

teaspoon of salt, two tablespoons of olive oil and a quarter 
of a cup of red vinegar, and three quarters of a cup of the 
fish broth. If desired the fish broth may be strained, cooled, 
and served in bouillon cups with finger rolls, as it is de- 
liriously flavored. 

A Good Cold fish Dish 

A very good cold dish is pickled salmon. It is made by 
boiling the salmon, then placing it in a deep crock with a 
tight cover. Take a cup of water in which it was boiled 
and a cupful of vinegar, half ounce of pepper, half ounce of 
allspice, one teafepoon of salt, two bay leaves, two cloves; 
boil the mixture for ten minutes, then let cool and pour 
over the salmon, covering tightly for twelve hours. Drain 
and serve the fish on a bed of watercress, garnished with 
thin slices of lemon and hard-boiled egg cut in fancy shapes. 

Cold Filet of Bass Pbrisienne 

Select one and a half pounds of fresh sea bass, have it 
fileted and cook the filets in a broth made of half a cup of 
vinegar, pepper, salt, and enough water to cover them. 
When done remove them carefully and when cold, cover an 
oblong dish with washed and dried lettuce leaves; lay the 
filets on and garnish them with thinly sliced cucumbers and 
tomatoes and dust all with a little paprika. Make a dress- 
ing with a teaspoon of chopped chives, a teaspoon of 
chopped tarragon leaves, two shalots, a saltspoon each 
of salt and pepper, a half cup of heavy French dressing, 



risK 127 

and enough mayonnaise to bind the sauce. Have this 
sauce chilled and pour it over the filets just before they are 
served. 

Cold Jellied Eels 

Skin and cut the eels into short pieces; put them into a 
pint of white wine with sliced onions, carrots, mushrooms, 
a few peas, and one diced potato. Season to taste and stew 
tmtil the eels are done; remove from the fire, add a few 
thin slices of lemon and a teaspoon of minced parsley. 
Turn into an oblong mold and set away to cool and jell; 
when ready to serve turn onto a platter and garnish with 
lemon and parsley. 

Goosefish 

The people of England and Germany are most apprecia- 
tive users of a fish almost imknown to the American table. 
This is the goosefish, monkfish, anglerfish, or devilfish, the 
last name being best known, perhaps, in America. It is 
said on the best authority that the steaks taken from this 
fish contain as much flesh building material, pound for 
pound, as sirloin steak. The fish weighs in the neighbor- 
hood of twenty-five pounds and is cut up for market like 
cod, haddock, and other big fish. 

Grayflsh 

Gra3rfish is the nom de plume under which the dogfish is 
bidding for favor. After rigorous and costly experimen- 
tation, the U. S. Bureau of Fisheries recommend it as one 
of the cheapest and most delicious of canned fishes. The 
fish has a ribless backbone, a fact which will endear it to 
most housewives ; it is packed in cans in a compressed piece, 
paper wrapped, the light and dark meat being as distinct 
as that of the salmon. 



SHELL FISH— LOBSTERS 

The Choosing and Preparing of Lobster 

Choosing lobsters is quite as much of a problem as choos- 
ing fresh fish, but is fotmd more simple than selecting fish, 
for the lobster at his best, is decidedly lively and on the 
defensive as much as his weighty body out of water will 
allow him to be. Whereas the fish is a passive subject at 
best. A lobster from nine to ten and a half inches long, is 
the smallest that may be purchased, and will probably 
weigh from a pound and a quarter, to a pound and a half. 
An3rthing smaller comes under the head of Chicken Lobster. 
A good way of testing a lobster is by comparing its weight 
to its size. For example, if a lobster ten and a half inches 
long only weighs between a pound and a quarter and a 
potmd and a half, one may know that it has lately passed 
through the period of shedding, and for that reason is soft- 
shelled and light of weight. If, on the other hand, his 
weight is from a potmd and a half to two and a half, he will 
be found in prime condition for a good meal. 

Lobsters up to a weight of three pounds make the best 
food. After three pounds they are not so apt to be tender. 

A good lively lobster will keep in a cold package, packed 
in sea weed, for many days. When lobster is designed for 
boiling, or to be used in any one of the dishes requiring the 
meat of cooked lobster, have a pot full of water boiling 
hard and plunge the lobster head first into this. Cover 
tightly and boil twenty minutes to half an hour, according 
to the size. If he is intended for use, almost immediately, 
take him from the boiling water and plunge him into ice 

128 



Shell Fish 129 

water. Let him stay there until thoroughly cold. This 
makes the meat firm. Ten to fifteen minutes being suffi- 
cient. He is then ready to open. If the lobster is to be 
broiled, have the fire in perfect condition, a gas oven is 
most universally used, and because of its construction, is 
the most convenient. Live coals are in order where the old- 
fashioned kitchen stove is still in vogue, and for camp 
purposes, charcoal will answer the purpose nicely. The 
lobster intended for broiling should be laid on a heavy 
board and split straight down the middle with a sharp 
carving knife or cleaver. This is difficult in the home 
kitchen, but the nearby butcher will always split them for 
you and they may be returned immediately to the hot 
broiler. 

If one is buying boiled lobsters, a safe way to tell whether 
they were in good condition when boiled, is to straighten 
out the tail. If this returns immediately to its curled posi- 
tion, the lobster was in good condition when boiled. If it 
remains limp, it has probably been out of the water some 
time. This is, however, not an infallible rule, and one 
should not condemn a fish dealer or butcher imtil they 
have examined the meat of the lobster, and if it is firm 
the lobster is in good condition and safe for food. 

From July until September is the general shedding 
time, when the lobsters change shell, then they are apt to 
be very heavy, but when opened it will be found it is the 
new shell that makes them so, and that they are lean and 
not very good eating. 

A few simple directions for opening the boiled lobster 
may give the housewife courage to serve the dainty of tener 
in the home. 

When the lobster is ready to open have the platter 
ready, lined with large green lettuce leaves, break off the 
small claws and garnish the edge of the dish with them, 
then break off the large claws, crack them, and remove the 
meat. Next take the lobster by the back of the body in 
the right hand, the tail in the left hand, and insert two 
9 



130 Shell FisK 

fingers under the body shell at the base of the tail, then 
break through the soft shell and separate the tail from the 
body. 

Lay the tail on its back on the board and with a sharp 
knife cut through the soft rib-like structure and, flattening 
the points at each side, crack the shell and by putting two 
fingers under the meat it may be easily drawn forth whole, 
open it right down the middle and remove the single 
intestine which runs down the entire length of the tail. 

Next take the body in the right hand and place the 
thiunb of the left hand tmder the shell and pull out the 
body, the soft green jelly-like substance in the center is 
called the "fat" and is not only edible but is considered a 
great delicacy. The contents of the head or **lady in the 
chair, " as it is called, is not edible, and the "dead men" or 
gills at either side of the body are not edible. 

Put the two thumbs in the center of the body when the 
gills are removed and separate it into two pieces and pick 
the meat carefully from the cells which will be readily 
distinguished. Now if the shells are to be used in garnish- 
ing, clean them, carefully rinse in warm water, then with a 
soft cloth wipe them over with olive oil, then put in a cool 
place until needed. 

The lobster should be boiled in the morning for use 
at dinner and kept in a very cold place, but not in direct 
contact with the ice, and it is better not to remove the 
meat from the shell until just before preparing it in any 
desired way. 

Lobster and Sweetbread en Casserole 

Boil two lobsters and remove the meat, set aside the two 
tails and two large claws. All the rest of the meat mince 
fine, add to it a half teaspoon of pepper, a half teaspoon 
of salt, a grated onion, a tablespoon of chopped celery, 
a teaspoon of chopped parsley, a half cup of fine crumbs, 
one beaten egg, two tablespoons of melted butter, and mix 



Shell FisH 131 

well together. Have ready two cold parboiled sweet- 
breads, split them, but not entirely apart, and stuff them 
with the mixture, butter the casserole and lay the sweet- 
breads in the center, the lobster tails at either side with the 
claws, sprinkle with pepper and salt, generous Itunps of 
butter, and, last of all, turn in a half pint of cream, and a gill 
of chutney s}rrup. Cook in medium oven one hour to an 
hour and a half. 

Lobster ft la Newburg 

Select two lobsters weighing about two pounds each. 
Use lump of butter as big as two eggs. While the butter 
is melting, separate four eggs. Beat the yolks and mix 
with a pint of sweet cream. Stir the cream and eggs well 
together. Pour into the melted butter, then stir in the 
lobster, which has been taken from the shell and cut into 
small pieces. Allow to simmer until the eggs are cooked. 
When ready to serve pour in two wineglasses of sherry, or 
madeira. This will serve six people. 

Lobster Chops 

For the lobster chops, to two cups of cold boiled lobster, 
chopped fine, add saltspoon of salt, half saltspoon of pepper 
and a little chopped parsley. Boil one cup of cream mixed 
with three (level) tablespoons of flour, one tablespoon of 
butter, and mix with lobster. When cool, form into chops, 
roll in cracker dust, fry in hot lard, and insert a claw to 
carry out the effect. Garnish with sliced lemon and parsley, 
put sauce tartare in sauce-boat, and serve the chops on a 
doily. 

Buttered Lobster 

Beat up the yolks of two eggs with a tablespoon of butter ; 
when it forms a smooth cream add half a gill of milk or 
cream, a saltspoon of freshly ground black pepper, and a 



132 SKell FisH 

half saltspoon of coralline pepper. Put it into the double 
pan with the meat of a lobster, cut up not too small, and let 
it heat in this for ten minutes, without on any account 
allowing it to boil. Senre on toast. 

Lobster and Codfish Tongues en Casserole 

Meat of two boiled lobsters cut small.. Codfish tongues 
boiled and sliced, put in a well buttered casserole with a 
gill of cream, a gill of melted butter, a tablespoon of 
powdered sweet herbs, and a teaspoon of Worcestershire 
sauce. Dice three white potatoes and bake all in the 
casserole one hour. 

Lobster Tarts 

Line as many tartlet pans as there are to be portions 
served with a good pie crust. Take the meat of one large 
boiled lobster and cut it fine. Add to it one cup of chopped 
button mushrooms, a chopped red pepper, and three 
chopped truflfles that have been sauted in butter. Add a 
half cup of dry bread crumbs, a gill of melted butter, a gill of 
cream, and one boiled egg chopped. Season with a dessert- 
spoon of Worcestershire sauce, the same amount of chutney 
syrup, a saltspoon of white pepper, and a teaspoon of salt. 
Fill the pans with the mixture; dust the top of each with a 
little grated American cheese, and bake until the crust is 
done in the oven. A large lobster, weighing three and a 
half to four pounds, and this mixture will be enough to serve 
eight people. 

Scalloped Lobster 

To the meat of two cold boiled lobsters, add a half cup 
grated old English sharp cheese, three quarters of a cup 
of cracker crumbs, a saltspoon of pepper, half a teaspoon of 
salt, two cups of sweet heavy cream, and one tablespoon 
of butter. Before greasing the baking dish rub lightly with 



Shell Fish 133 

a bud of garlic, then butter, then fill in the mixture, adding 
the cream last. Bake a delicate brown in a moderate 
oven and serve as an entrfe. Dry toast fingers or small 
rolls should be served with the lobster. 

Lobster Cardinal 

Remove the boiled lobster from the shell, cut in pieces, 
mix with one and a half cups of shrimp sauce. This is 
a light cream sauce with a dozen shredded shrimp in it and 
two tablespoons of tomato ketchup added to color it. Put 
the lobster back in the shell, sprinkle thickly with grated 
cheese, place under the broiler until brown, and serve with 
hot finger rolls. 

Lobster Proven$ale 

Have the lobster split as for broiling, remove the meat, 
and cut in pieces. Saut^ in olive oil to which has been 
added a grated onion, two finely minced shalots, and a half 
bud of garlic, a teaspoon of Worcestershire sauce, a 
few drops of kitchen bouquet, two tablespoons of sherry, 
and a tablespoon of tomato sauce. Do not add the 
sherry imtil the lobster is all cooked, then let all boil up 
together once. This may be served in patty shells, rame- 
kins, or in a border of rice. 

Lobster Creole 

Take the meat of one heavy cold boiled lobster and cut 
it fine. Add to it a small cup of dry crumbs, a tablespoon 
of chutney syrup, a saltspoon each of pepper and salt, a 
gill of melted butter, and one cup of thin cream sauce. 
Fill buttered ramekins with the mixture, dusting the top 
of each with a little grated cheese. Bake fifteen minutes. 

Lobster Creole 

Boil one lobster, cut the meat in small pieces, and steep 
it in melted butter with one grated onion, two dozen button 



134 Shell FisH 

mushrooms chopped with one fresh green pepper, and one 
large fresh tomato; season and serve with rice timbales 
garnished with watercress. 

To Broil a Lobster 

With sharp knife and mallet, split in two down back, 
following line which nms down middle of shell; remove 
stomach and intestine; place the two pieces on a broiler 
with shell part downwards, and broil over a moderate 
fire for half an hour or longer. When half cooked, moisten 
well with butter; when thoroughly cooked spread butter 
over, and sprinkle with pepper, salt, and lemon juice. Crack 
claws before serving. It is a good idea to have the butcher 
split and clean the lobster. 

CRABS 

Crabs are in season all summer and, if fresh and lively, 
may be boiled and served as a foundation of many good 
dishes. The season for the soft-shell crabs is short, but 
they are considered a delicacy, and are favorites while 
they last. 

To Cook Hard-Shell Crabs 

Hard crabs are cooked by plunging them into boiling 
water, and boiling them twenty minutes if they are good 
sized. When they are cold remove the claws, raise the 
apron with the thumb nail, then insert the thtmib at the 
back of the shell and remove the body. Pull away the 
"dead men" and remove the white meat. Avoid the eyes 
and the gall bag back of them. When all meat is removed 
place in the ice-box to cool. They are then ready to use 
in any way liked best. 

Stuffed Crabs 

Put half a pound of crab meat in a saucepan with a 
teaspoon of butter, season well with pepper and salt. 



Shell FisK 135 

add a pinch of chopped parsley, and thicken with cream 
sauce. Stir lightly to avoid breaking the meat. Stuff a 
large crab shell which has been thoroughly cleaned, cover 
with bread crumbs and a little melted butter, and brown in 
a quick oven or tmder a gas broiler. 

Crab Meat Puflfs 

Let a cup and a half of flaked crab meat simmer in a cup 
of sauce k la Newburg, have ready puff paste squares, 
tuck a tablespoon of mixture into a square, turning up the 
points like an apple dumpling, grate a little Parmesan cheese 
over the top, and bake in the oven a delicate brown. 

Crab Tartlets 

Line tartlet pans with good pie crust, take one pint of 
fresh, carefully picked-out crab meat, and add to it three 
tablespoons of bread crumbs that have been fried in butter 
and drained, three tablespoons of very finely chopped 
celery, a half saltspoon of pepper, a saltspoon of salt, and one 
cup of rich cream sauce not made too ttick. PiU the tarts 
and put on little upper crusts, cut to let the gas and steam 
escape, and bake them a delicate brown. These are delicious 
cold and are very dainty for the Sunday night supper. 

Crab Meat in Ramekins 

Take two cups of crab meat, one small cup of fine, dry 
bread crumbs, one beaten egg^ saltspoon each of pepper and 
salt, a gill of melted butter, a cup of sweet cream, and a table- 
spoon of chutney syrup. Mix the ingredients well together 
and fill buttered ramekins or scallop shells with it. Sprinkle 
the top of each with grated cheese and bake a delicate brown. 

Deviled Crabs 

Boil twelve crabs and when cold remove the meat. Rub 
together two tablespoons of flour and one of butter, when 
smooth thicken a half pint of milk and when it reaches 



136 Shell Fish 

boiling point remove it from the fire. Add to it a half 
teaspoon of paprika, a level teaspoon of salt, a saltspoon of 
white pepper, a tablespoon of chopped tarragon leaves; 
mash the yolks of four hard-boiled eggs together and work 
into the sauce. Add the crab meat, mixing all thoroughly. 
Add a half cup of soft bread crumbs, a tablespoon of chutney 
S3rrup, mix all together, and fill the empty crab shells with 
the mixtures, dotting the top of each with a little butter 
and dusting with a little grated cheese. These crabs may 
be put into a frying basket and plunged into hot fat for two 
minutes, but they are nicer if baked in the oven for fifteen 
minutes, or tmtil they are a delicate brown on top. 

Crab Gumbo 

Take a half of a fresh tender chicken, cut into small 
pieces, put into a saucepan with a large spoon of lard and 
one of flour, watch carefully and brown; turn over it a 
pint of water and let it cook for an hour and a half. Pick 
the meat from one dozen boiled crabs, warm the meat with 
a spoonful of butter in another pan, then pour it over the 
chicken, adding a few small pieces of fried ham. Season 
to taste and serve hot with dry boiled rice. 

Crab Meat au Gratin 

Add to the crab meat of a dozen crabs three quarters of 
a cup of fine dry bread cnmibs, a gill of melted butter, an 
egg beaten in a half cup of milk, half a cup of cream, half 
saltspoon of pepper, a saltspoon of salt, and a tablespoon of 
grated English cheese. Fill well buttered ramekins with 
the mixture, sprinkling a little more cheese and a dash of 
paprika on top of each, bake a delicate brown, and serve 
garnished with cress and with hot finger rolls. 

Soft-Shell Crabs 

To prepare the soft-shell crab take it in two fingers 
and on the under side insert the thumb nail under the 



Shell Fish 137 

point of the apron, open and pull it off. Rinse the crabs 
in cold water, dip them into beaten egg, roll in cracker 
crumbs, dust lightly with pepper and salt, and plunge them 
in boiling fat. Cover and cook about ten minutes. When 
done drain them on brown paper, lay them on toast sippets 
on a hot platter, garnishing with parsley and lemon quarters- 
Serve tartare sauce with the crabs. 

Soft-Shell Crabs Italian Way 

Take six large soft-shell crabs, clean and rinse them, and 
lay them in one pint of milk. Add three beaten eggs and 
allow them to remain until they absorb the liquid. Lift 
them out, roll in fine crumbs, and fry as usual. 

A comparatively newcomer to our fish markets is the 
big English hard shelled crab whose weight is greater than 
a large lobster and who yields sufficient meat for a salad 
which plentifully supplies four portions. The meat is a 
trifle stronger in flavor than our smaller domestic crabs, 
the only other crab meat which approaches it is that of the 
crab from the Pacific coast which now quite regularly ap- 
pears in our markets and is but a bit smaller than his 
English cousin. 

SHRIMP AND CRAWFISH 

These are usually sold boiled and are capable of being 
made into any of the dishes wherein lobster or crabs figure. 
The crawfish appears oftener in the garnishes used for 
various fish dishes, than in dishes made of itself. 

Creamed Shrimp 

Make a rich cream sauce and add to it a pint of pickled 
cold boiled shrimp, broken in halves. Before using the 
shrimp let them stand one hour in the juice of half a lemon, 
juice of one onion, a wineglass of sherry, a saltspoon of 
pepper, and the same quantity of salt. When ready let 
them drain for ten minutes, then add them to the cream 
sauce. Serve them on toast squares that have been 



138 Shell FisH 

sprinkled with grated cheese, pepper and salt, and heated 
hot in the oven. 

Scalloped 



Take two cups of freshly boiled shrimp and break 
them into small pieces; make a highly seasoned cream 
sauce; add a tablespoon of cracker dust to the shrimp 
and put them into the cream. Pill buttered ramekins or 
baking shells with the mixture and bake till a delicate 
brown. Serve garnished with a slice of crisp bacon and a 
spray of watercress. 

Shrimp Tarts 

Line separate tart pans with good pie crust and crimp 
the edges. Shell and break in pieces a quart of freshly 
boiled shrimp. Make a good rich cream sauce and put in 
the shrimp, season well and fill the tarts, dusting the top 
of each with a few fine crumbs, grated cheese, a dusting of 
pepper and salt. Put in the oven, and by the time the 
crust is done the filling will be brown on top. 

Spanish Fricasseed Shrimp 

Pry in butter one chopped onion, and three chopped 
tomatoes; when a delicate brown add one tablespoon of 
flour mixed smooth in a half a cup of water; when the sauce 
boils add one quart of boiled shrimp, a half teaspoon of 
salt, and a tablespoon of Worcestershire sauce, one beaten 
egg yolk; cover and cook about fifteen minutes, stirring 
occasionally so that it does not bum. Serve turned into 
the center of a ring of boiled rice. 

MOLLUSKS 
Oysters 

September marks the annual return of oysters to the 
menu, and they are always welcome. No other viand 
seems to take just their place, though the clam does its 
best to fill in the vacation period. Oysters are not only 



Shell Fish 139 

serviceable used on the half shell, in sauce, roasted, stewed, 
and fried, but in numberless ways they may be prepared 
to form a course by themselves. 

If one has a cool cellar in which they may be stored, they 
are better when bought in quantity in the shell and they 
will keep for a long time covered with damp seaweed or 
sprinkled with wet commeal. If this is impossible, they 
should be opened by the fish dealer in order that the cus- 
tomer may have them at their best. 

The oyster requires very little cooking, and if used in 
stew it should only be dropped in for a couple of minutes 
until the beard curls, then removed instantly from the 
fire. If the oysters are to be broiled, the gridiron 
should be thoroughly warmed, so that they may cook 
quickly without drying when they are put over the heat. 
If they are fried, the batter should be very delicate and 
the fat very hot, so that they may fry quickly. The 
habit of adding cornmeal to the batter makes too coarse 
and heavy a coating for the delicate texture of the oyster. 
They are best when simply dusted with fine cracker crumbs 
just before being dropped into the hot fat, using no 
batter at all. 

Raw on the half shell is a most popular way of serving 
them, with lemon, tabasco, or horseradish sauce. Spiced or 
pickled, two on a tiny round of toast with a few drops of 
anchovy sauce, they make a most acceptable relish. In 
the familiar cocktail they masquerade under the highly 
seasoned cloak of tomato sauce. 

Delicately broiled on heavy white paper and placed on 
toast sippets, with melted butter, they make a dainty 
addition to the invalid's tray. In the dry stew, Boston 
stew and milk stew they are equally good. 

Roasted over the outdoor log fire they are most popular 
for beach party refreshments on early fall nights, when com 
roasts have gone out of season. A large oyster rolled up 
in a thin slice of bacon, pinned with a wooden skewer and 
delicately fried, served with toast, fingers and cress, are the 



I40 Shell Fish 

little "pigs in blankets" that are so inviting to the fitful 
appetite of the epicure for breakfast on the dawn of the 
"morning after." 

Creamed, they are very inviting if the cream is richly 
made. Scalloped oysters are nice baked in the baking 
shells or the little ramekins. In salads, sandwiches, patties, 
fried and served in turkey stuffing the oyster's use is well 
known to nearly all cooks. 

Oysters k la Newburg are quite popular for the chafing 
dish suppers, and the following is a good recipe for them: — 
Stew three dozen oysters in their own liquor with a pinch 
of salt until the edges curl, then drain them and add two 
tablespoons of sherry to the cream made by heating a 
gill of cream and thickening it with a tablespoon of flour 
rubbed into two ounces of butter, add the hard-boiled yolks 
of three eggs rubbed smooth in a little cream, stir until all 
is thick and smooth, then add the wine and oysters, and serve 
hot, adding salt and pepper to taste. 

Oyster Loaf 

Take one well-shaped loaf of baker's bread, slice off the 
top lengthways, carefully remove the crumb from it and 
draw through two little slits a wide white satin ribbon which 
ties in a big bow on the top. Deftly hollow out the bottom 
of the loaf, leaving a quarter-inch crust entirely around and 
on the bottom of the loaf. Crumple tissue paper and fill 
the loaf with it, put on the cover and set it aside in a cool 
place; this is done so that the loaf will not lose its shape. 
When ready for service remove the paper, fill the loaf with 
rich creamed 03rsters and send to the table garnished with 
parsley. 

Baked Oyster Newburg 

Make a rich Newburg sauce, and when it is thoroughly 
smooth and at boiling point add a solid quart of oysters 



Shell Fish 141 

that have been carefully wiped dry on a linen towel. Let 
them boil up once, then turn into a buttered casserole 
baking dish, sprinkle over the top a tablespoon of very fine 
bread crumbs, a tablespoon of grated English cheese and a 
little paprika, and brown lightly in the oven. Serve hot or 
cold with hot biscuits and fresh butter. A tablespoon of 
sherry improves the flavor. 

Oysters Baked in Tomatoes 

Take as many large firm tomatoes as there are portions 
to be served, cut and hollow out the stem end. Take enough 
small bluepoint oysters to allow four to each tomato, add 
for each four oysters a teaspoon of bread crumbs, a half tea- 
spoon of grated cheese, a few drops of onion juice and half 
a teaspoon of finely chopped celery. Pill the tomatoes 
with the mixture, place them in a buttered baking dish and 
turn over each a teaspoon of melted butter; dust lightly 
with a little bit of flour and bake until tender, but not until 
the tomato falls. Garnish with fried parsley. 

Oyster and Com Scallop 

Cut the kernels from eight ears of fresh, tender com, 
add to them two gills of melted butter, one gill of sweet 
cream, two tablespoons of sugar, a saltspoon of pepper, 
half a teaspoon of salt, and two well beaten eggs. Butter 
a baking dish, put in a layer of the com, then a layer of 
oysters. Have ready four slices of pickled pork that 
has been diced and fried a delicate brown, dot the oysters 
with the pork and dust with a tablespoon of fine bread 
crumbs; put on another layer of the com mixture, then 
the oysters and pork with the crumbs, and so on until 
the dish is filled. If the dish seems a little dry add a 
little more sweet cream, then dust the top lightly with 
grated cheese and bake. 



142 SHell 

Oyster Pie 

Line a deep pie plate with pie crust. Make a cream sauce, 
not too thick, and put into it a pint of solid oysters. Fill 
the pie with the creamed oysters, put on the top crust and 
bake a delicate brown. This makes a very nice entree. 
Cut the pie in squares instead of the usual wedge-shaped 
pieces, and serve a tablespoon of whipped cream on top 
of each portion, dusting with a little pepper and salt. 

Oyster Croquettes 

Take three dozen fresh oysters, strain off the liquor and 
set it aside. Chop the oysters and mix them with an equal 
quantity of cold boiled, chopped chicken and six chopped 
mushrooms. Put them into a saucepan, add the liquor 
and one teaspoon of Worcestershire sauce, two beaten eggs, 
and two tablespoons of cream, salt and pepper to taste. 
Stir and cook until the mixture thickens, then set it aside to 
cool. When cold form into croquettes, roll in egg and 
cracker dust, fry in hot fat and serve garnished with parsley 
and crisp slices of fried bacon. 

Oyster Bundles 

Make some good pie crust, roll out thin, and cut into 
strips six inches long by three inches wide. Lay on each 
strip a slice of bacon, one good-sized oyster and a teaspoon 
of the following sauce: Take a cup of cold boiled shrimp, 
mince very fine and add to it a teaspoon of Worcestershire 
sauce, a teaspoon of finely chopped tarragon leaves, a des- 
sertspoon of chutney syrup, a little melted butter, and a 
very stiflBy beaten egg white. Lay a teaspoon of this on each 
oyster, roll up the bundles , put them in well buttered baking 
dishes, and bake until the crust is done. Have ready a 
rich, heavy, smooth tomato sauce, and put a small quantity 
on each bundle as it is served. 



Shell Fish 143 

Escalloped OysteiB 

In making the escalloped o3rsters, take one quart of 
oysters as solid as it is possible to get them; drain and dry 
them on cheesecloth folders. Butter a baking dish, then 
lay in alternate layers of oysters and fresh cracker dtist, 
covering each layer with little pieces of butter, and a sprink- 
ling of pepper and salt. Proceed this way until the dish 
is filled, the top layer being crumbs. Add the lumps of 
butter on the top, a cup of the liquor from the oysters, 
and two gills of cream. Bake in a moderate oven until it is 
delicately brown on top. Serve in the dish in which it is 
baked, folding a napkin about the dish to make it more 
sightly. Olives, celery, and little hot biscuits, quick or 
raised, should be offered with this course. 

Bombay Oysters 

Select large frying oysters, allowing four to a portion. 
Broil the oysters on a well buttered grill and then lay them 
on a shallow buttered baking pan. Have ready a cup of 
minced chicken seasoned with a half saltspoon of pepper, 
a saltspoon of salt, a tablespoon of chutney syrup, a table- 
spoon of melted butter, a tablespoon of cream, and the 
stiffly beaten white of an egg. Mix thoroughly and put a 
spoonful on the top of each ojrster, and then let them 
brown lightly in the oven. Serve on hot plates on thinly 
sliced pieces of buttered toast, pour over each portion a little 
cream sauce made not too thick, and garnish with a spray of 
parsley. 

Curried Oysters 

Curried oysters are made by taking the liquor of one quart 
of oysters, heat it and thicken with two tablespoons of flour 
rubbed into two tablespoons of butter and one teaspoon of 
curry powder. When thickened add the oysters, let simmer 
five minutes, being careful it does not bum, and serve. 



144 Shell FisH 

Oyster Shortcake 

Make a good shortcake and bake in pie plates. While 
it is baking, stew three dozen oysters in their own liquor 
until the edges curl; make a rich cream sauce, the same as 
for creamed oysters; drain, add them to it, and season well. 
Split the shortcake and pour the mixture between and over 
it. Do not neglect to butter the layers well before adding 
the oysters. 

CLAMS 

Too often after oysters come back into season is the 
humble dam relegated to the background, and seldom met 
except in the chowder. The dam is too useftd and too 
moderate in price to be neglected. The large round dam 
is generally opened and chopped for chowder use. Soft 
dams sold by the string are sometimes used for chowder 
and sometimes for frying, or they are chopped and used 
for fritters. The thin-shdled long dams are the ideal 
"steamers." Clams may be had all year round. 

There is a square doth bag fastened with snap catches 
designed for steaming clams so that they may be drained 
and sent to table right in the bag. The dams are tho- 
roughly washed and scrubbed with a brush and lukewarm 
water before being put into the bag, so that they are free 
from sand. The bags may easily be made at home to hold 
single portions of one dozen each or large enough for the 
family supply. 

Baked Clams 

Steam open enough small, round dams to allow seven to 
each ramekin, add to them a cup of bread crumbs, a salt- 
spoon of pepper, a saltspoon of salt, a gill of melted butter, 
the juice of an onion, tablespoon of Worcestershire sauce, a 
teaspoon of English mtistard, teaspoon of chopped tarragon 
leaves, one beaten egg and a gill of cream. Fill wdl buttered 



Shell FisK 145 

ramekins with tlie mixture and bake a delicate brown; 
serve hot. 

EscaUoped Clams 

For this dish the dams should be opened like oysters, 
and fifty medium sized ones will be needed. Butter a 
baking dish, then put in a layer of clams, then a thin layer 
of dried crumbs, dust with pepper and dot with little Itmips 
of butter. Proceed this way until all the clams are used 
up, then turn over all a rich but thin cream sauce, dust the 
top with a little grated cheese, and bake for half an hour. It 
will take a cup and a half of the sauce, perhaps a little 
more — it must be judged by the dish quantity, as it should 
come up nearly to the top of the mixture. 

Clam Pie 

Steam open, after thoroughly washing the shells, four 
dozen rotmd clams. Make a rich cream sauce, not too 
thick, and add the dams to it; add a half saltspoon of celery 
salt, the juice of one onion and a half saltspoon of mignon- 
ette pepper. Have ready as many large ramekins lined 
with good pie crust as are needed for the ntunber to be 
served; fill them with the mixttire and put on the top 
crust, which should be perforated with a silver fork. Bake 
until the crust is done. These pies should be cooled 
naturally but never chilled. 

Cunied Clams 

Steam open suffident dams to allow six or more to a 
portion. Make a good curry sauce, and when done drop 
the dams into it, boil up once to heat them, then serve on 
toast garnished with pimento olives. In proportion only 
a levd teaspoon of the curry powder should be used for a 
pint of cream sauce. 



146 Shell Fish 

MUSSELS 



In the sea mussel we have a shell-fish as palatable as the 
oyster, much more nutritious, and more digestible. It 
contains only half as much waste as the 03rster, is more 
abundant, and is adapted for making a great variety of 
food combinations. Furthermore, it is in season for the 
table when the oyster is out of season. 

Mussels may be eaten plain if desired, in which case they 
are prepared by washing them well and then placing in a 
pan with slices of onions and a little chopped parsley. 
After being on the fire ten minutes, by which time all the 
shells will have opened, they should be removed, the beard 
and black portion cut off, and they are then ready to eat in 
their own juice. 

Buttered Mussels 

If fresh, steam a quart of mussels open, remove from the 
shells and saut^ in a gill of butter, pepper and salt for two 
or three minutes until they curl; then serve on slices of 
toast garnished with fresh cress. If bottled, drain carefully 
and remove the whole spices that are often in them, rinse 
through cold water, wipe dry on a linen cloth, then saut^ in 
the butter, adding a generous dash of red pepper, and a 
pinch of salt, and serve on toast in the same way. 

SCALLOPS 

In our markets during the scallop season two kinds ap- 
pear. The very large, deep sea scallops which are used for 
soups, in chowders, or chopped to use in made fish dishes are 
stronger in flavor and tougher in fiber than the smaller scal- 
lops which are sweet in flavor and tender. The latter 
usually appear in Newburgs, stews, fries, and salads. 

Scallops en Casserole 

Drain and dry a quart of large scallops; then dip them in 
beaten egg and roll them in some very fine crumbs that 



Shell Fish 147 

have a little grated cheese, a saltspoon of pepper, and a 
half teaspoon of salt added to them. Heap them in a 
buttered casserole dish and turn over them the same cream 
sauce as is used with the codfish tongues. If the quantity 
of the sauce seems insufficient, add an extra gill of cream. 
If desired, a wineglass of sherry may be added. 

SNAILS 

The use of snails as food is practically unknown in this 
country, but it is common in Europe, especially in Prance 
and Austria, and has been introduced here to some extent 
by inmiigrants from those countries. 

When the snails are gathered from the woods or in the 
open cotmtry it is not considered altogether safe to use 
them for food immediately. The reason for this lies in the 
fact that the snails are likely to feed upon all sorts of 
plants and cases of poisoning have been known. It is 
customary, therefore, to keep them for a time in enclosures 
where they may be properly fed and cared for tmtil ready 
for market. 

The enclosure is usually divided by narrow paths, between 
which is strewn a layer of moss, in which the snails seek 
shelter from the sun and from changes of temperature. 

The food provided for snails in captivity consists mainly 
of lettuce, endive, cabbage, dandelion leaves, and chopped 
kohlrabi. These vegetables are raised on a considerable 
scale for this purpose. The food is laid upon the moss, 
and care must be taken to remove all portions of decayed 
food and other undesirable matter — a, precaution essential 
to the health of the snail. 

The snails are gathered during the summer and kept in 
the preserves until the later autumn season. They are 
seasonable in Jtme, July, and August for table use. 

The snail in France is classed much the same as the 
oyster is in America, used as an entree, tidbit, or delicacy. 
In smart restaurants and hotels they sell, prepared as an 



148 Shell UsH 

entree at thirty or forty cents a plate, washed down by the 
choicest of French wine. As many as five thousand of 
the best large white ones are used a day in a popular restau- 
rant, while from ten to twelve thousand of the cheaper 
grade are used during the twenty-four hours. The Bur- 
gundy snails are sent to market cooked. They are taken at 
their dormant season, they are carefully picked over, dead 
ones thrown aside and the epiphragms (the covering with 
which they protect the opening of their shell in winter) 
and they are then put into running water until thoroughly 
cleansed, then they are boiled in salted water. When done 
they are picked from their shells chopped to a paste and 
seasoned with chopped chervil, parsley, and shaJots, then 
put between thin slices of sweet butter. After the shells 
are scrubbed white and are thoroughly dried they are 
stuffed with the mixture, packed and sent to regular cus- 
tomers in the required ntunbers. 

Another favorite way of cooking the snails is to cleanse 
them and boil them for five minutes in the shell, then re- 
move them from the shells and boil them two hours. 
When done they are chopped and then delicately seasoned, 
and the shells having been cleaned, they are stuffed, and a 
plug of the fresh butter worked to a paste with the chopped 
parsley, shalots, and seasoning. When ready for serving 
the snails may be heated in a pan for five minutes which 
melts the butter that flavors the meat, they are sent to 
table on a hot dish and are eaten with a two-pronged fork. 

Still another way is to make the k la Bordelaise and add 
it to the chopped snail meat prepared as directed, then 
spread the mixture on toast rotmds and bake a little while 
in the oven. The sauce is made of red wine, butter, garlic, 
and seasoning. 

The escargots or edible snails sold in America are sent 
here alive in casks from Europe, but it is claimed by the 
department of agriculture that the Mississippi Valley would 
be ideal in every way for raising snails and that snaileries 
established there would be a paying investment. Snails 



SHell FisH 149 

are really more wholesome than oysters for they feed 
daintily on clean vegetable tissues, while oysters must 
take their nourishment from whatever water they are 
placed in, whether pure or impure. 



ENTREES 

The art of entitle making is one that has to be carefully 
studied by the at-home cook, but when once mastered 
means the knowledge of using left-overs to the best advan- 
tage, as well as the ability of knowing how to use fresh 
things economically. The entree always adds the little 
touch of elegance to the simplest meal that removes it 
from the commonplace. 

The so-called made dish is one of the secrets of the 
French woman's economy. To use up left-overs in an 
appetizing way is a long step towards reducing tlie cost of 
living. 

Among these entr^ are many dishes which may be 
selected for breakfast or luncheon use; the selection being 
made according to the grade of left-overs from the day 
before. 

Madeira Kidneys 

Take one dozen kidneys, skin and cut them partly in 
two; put on in cold water and let slowly come to boiling; 
pour off the water and add fresh, repeating this four times; 
then add one onion, a bay leaf, two cloves, and a pepper, 
and let them boil until tender. Have ready a brown sauce 
made of one pound of round steak cut in small squares, a 
soup bunch cut fine and covered with enough water to 
fill the pan; cover and simmer for an hour, while the kidneys 
are cooking; then strain and thicken with flour and butter 
creamed together; add a teaspoon of salt, a saltspoon of 
pepper, six seeded raisins and a wineglass of madeira wine; 
add when the sauce is ready, turn altogether and serve 

150 



Entrees 151 

on toast sippets, garnished with parsley. Kidneys are 
cheap, and when properly cooked are tasty in an entrfe. 

Dutch Croquettes 

Take one cup of chopped pecan nuts, two cups of fine 
bread crumbs, a quarter saltspoon of pepper, a half teaspoon 
of salt, one beaten egg, juice of an onion, teaspoon of 
Worcestershire sauce, a tablespoon of melted butter and 
enough sweet cream to make the mixture into a consistency 
to mold into croquettes. Form the croquettes into any 
desired shapes, dust them with flour, lay them on a floured 
plate and set them in a cool place until it is time to use them. 
Fry them in deep hot fat, drain and serve them in a napkin 
garnished with parsley and lemon quarters. 

Mock Chicken Cutlet 

For the mock chicken cutlet, grind two cups of bread 
crumbs with one cup of walnuts, add a tablespoon of onion 
juice, piece of butter, and a half saltspoon of mace. Thicken 
two cups of milk with butter and flour, rubbed to a paste. 
Add the other ingredients with a half teaspoon of salt, 
quarter saltspoon of pepper, a well beaten egg, and a tea- 
spoon of lemon juice. Stir well, then turn into dish to 
cool. Shape into cutlets, dip in egg and cracker dust and 
fry in butter a delicate brown. Garnish with parsley. 



A Company Luncheon Di 

This rather troublesome dish is excellent for the luncheon 
fish course and is made by stewing a half pint of scallops 
in a quarter of a cup of butter, juice of a lemon and half a 
cup of white wine; twelve oysters cooked in their own 
liquor, four soft clams parboiled in a little salted water, 
three ounces of oyster crabs saut^ in butter, and a cup of 
boiled lobster and crab meat flaked. E)rain the scallops 
and oysters and mix all the sea fruit in the saucepan. 



152 Entries 

Add to the drained liquors from the oysters and scallops 
four minced shalots and a teaspoon of chopped parsley, 
two mashed anchovies and two tablespoons of thick cream. 
Heat well, season to taste and strain over the sea fruit in 
a hot silver dish, and garnish with toast sippets and 
watercress. 

Lobster k la Militaire 

Sauce: Melt in chafing dish three quarters of a cup of 
butter. Add a small grated onion, half a lemon sliced thin, 
one dove, a quarter saltspoon of pepper, and a quarter 
teaspoon of salt, a wineglass of sherry, one bay leaf, and a 
tablespoon of tarragon vinegar. Let simmer for fifteen 
minutes. Then add the yolks of three well beaten eggs 
and stir carefully five minutes. Have the meat of one 
boiled lobster cut in small pieces. , Place it in a hot dish 
and strain the sauce over it. Garnish with olives stuffed 
with pimentos. 

Chopped Calves' Liver 

Boil a pound of calves' liver and chop it just as fine as 
possible, season with a half teaspoon of salt, a half saltspoon 
of pepper, and plenty of butter, pile on toast squares and 
garnish with strips of crisp bacon. Upon each portion lay a 
poached egg. Delicately broiled potatoes are served with 
this dish. 

Sardine Omelet 

Beat five eggs and add to them one tablespoon of cream, 
a half teaspoon of salt, a quarter saltspoon of pepper, a tea- 
spoon of Worcestershire sauce and four sardines that have 
been skinned, boned and broken into small pieces. Dissolve 
two level tablespoons of butter in the omelet pan and 
when hot, pour in the omelet. Stir it constantly until it 
begins to set. Fold, and serve on a hot plate garnished 
with cress. 



t- 



Entries I53 

Sheny Tenderloin 



After cutting away all arteries and splitting open four 
lambs* hearts, boil in slightly salted water until very tender; 
chop fine and add one onion, a stalk of celery, one tart 
apple chopped fine, a half cup of bread crumbs, an egg well 
beaten, one half cup of melted butter, a half saltspoon of 
pepper, a quarter teaspoon of salt» and a wineglass of 
sherry wine. 

Have ready two pork tenderloins; spread the mixture 
between; fasten together by smsiil skewers or with cord; 
place in baking pan; dust with pepper and salt; cover and 
roast until the meat is done (about a half hour), basting 
with a little melted butter and sherry very often; remove 
,the cover and let brown; place on a platter and pour over 
the gravy made from the drippings and a little water added, 
thickened with browned flour. Garnish with slices of hard- 
boiled eggs and parsley. 

Polish Stewed Tongue 

Prepare a fresh tongue and boil in the usual way. Saut^ 
a chopped onion and a little chopped pepper in butter; add 
a tablespoon of flour mixed smooth with a little of the 
water the tongue was boiled in, a cup and a half of the 
tongue water, a dash of nutmeg, a little cinnamon, two 
tablespoons of vinegar, a little thinly sliced lemon, and one 
tablespoon of sugar. Mix all ingredients thoroughly to- 
gether and allow them to boil up smooth; then add the 
tongue that has been skinned and diced, and serve turned 
around a pat of panned spinach. 

Deviled Oysters on Half-Shell 

Poach oysters in their own liquor, drain, saving the liquor 
for moistening highly seasoned sauce, made by creaming 
butter and flour, adding cream and oyster liquor, chopped 
parsley, saltspoon of dry mustard, saltspoon of salt, and a 



154 Entrees 

quarter saltspoon of pepper. Last of all beat in two egg 
yolks. Chop oysters, add to sauce, and fill into deep half 
of the oyster shells, covering with buttered bread crumbs. 
Place in oven until crumbs are brown. Serve two or three 
to a portion and garnish with lemon. 

Herring Roe, Madeira Sauce 

Remove the herring roe from the can, drain, and roll in 
fine cracker dust; fry it to a delicate brown in butter, drain, 
and garnish with fresh, crisp cress, drawing the sprays 
through thin slices of lemon, and serve the following sauce 
in a silver boat. To one glass of currant jelly add one glass 
of madeira wine, drop in three cloves, and when melted 
and hot, but not boiling, it is ready. 

Sausage k la Malaga 

Prom good puff paste cut two four-inch square pieces. 
Take two tablespoons of Boston sage sausage, add a little 
extra seasoning, a tablespoon of cream, and a teaspoon of 
melted butter. Place half in each pastry square. Seed 
and wash one dozen large Malaga grapes, put half in each 
pastry, turn a teaspoon of honey over each, pinch the pas- 
try, and bake twenty minutes. Serve garnished with cress 
and sliced fried apple. 

Marton and Sweetbread Casserole 

Parboil one large pair of sweetbreads; when done trim 
and dice. Butter a medium-sized casserole and lay in the 
diced breads, add to them a cupful of drained button mush- 
rooms, and one dozen little potato balls cut with the cutter; 
slice in three truflBies. Have ready one pint of cooking mar- 
rons stewed tuitil tender in their own liquor, then drained 
and mashed through a sieve; add to the pulp a gill of 
melted butter, a gill of cream, one grated onion, and a half 



Entrees 155 

cup of grated pineapple, a teaspoon of chutney syrup, a 
half saltspoon of pepper, a heaping saltspoon of salt, and, if 
a little thick, add a little more cream, then turn over the 
sweetbreads. Bake and serve. 

Creamed Sausages 

Parboil one potuid and a half of pork sausages, drain, and 
cool. When cold remove the skins and cut the meat into 
one-inch lengths; make a rich cream sauce, put the sausages 
in, and leave them long enough to heat through. Serve 
on slices of toast garnished with sliced fried-apple rotmds. 

Savoiy Mairow Bones 

Have marrow bones cut the desired length and boil 
them in a linen cloth in fair water long enough to release 
the marrow, about fifteen minutes. Stuff the bones with 
a mixture of sweetbreads, mushrooms, the marrow, and 
savory seasoning, and bake in a moderate oven. When 
done, they may be fitted with a paper collar and a black 
ribbon tie, tied in a square bow, and a paper fool's cap, 
and served on lace paper doilies. 

Sausage Puffs 

Prom good puff paste, rolled the thickness of pie crust, cut 
four-inch squares, as many as are needed for the portions 
that are to be served, allowing one or two extra. Take 
sausage meat and season it very highly, adding a tablespoon 
of chutney syrup to the mass, and use a tablespoon for the 
filling of each paste square, folding it nearly over so as to 
leave a little opening on top, in which place a large seeded 
layer raisin. Bake a delicate brown in the oven, serve 
on a hot platter garnished with cress and delicately sliced 
broiled potatoes. Serve with the puffs a dish of fresh apple 
sauce. 



15^ Entrees 

Banana and French Sausage Croquettes 

Steam four large bananas until tender, then mash them 
fine, add to them one small can of the French sausage, 
add a small cup of fine crumbs and a saltspoon of salt, 
half as much mignonette pepper, a teaspoon of green mus- 
tard with fine herbs, a tablespoon of melted butter, and one 
beaten egg, roll into croquettes, dip in egg, then in crumbs, 
and fry in butter. Drain and serve with broiled veal 
cutlets. 

Kidneys and Biandied Brown Sauce 

Prepare as many kidneys as are required for the number 
of guests; put them to boil in cold water; let them boil for 
two hours, changing the water seven times, and the last 
time throw in a spice bag, a half-cup of vinegar, a sliced 
onion, a pepper, and a half saltspoon of salt. When done 
remove and have ready a good brown sauce, made of one 
cup of beef stock and a cup of milk, thickened with flour 
and butter blended together, flavored with a small cup 
of sherry, one tablespoon of brandy, a dozen raisins, and 
six olives pared in curls from the stones. Serve very hot 
in covered dish. 

Toad in Hole 

Make a smooth batter of six ounces of flour, one pint 
of milk, and three eggs, beat smooth and turn into a well 
buttered baking dish. Into the batter lay a few slices of 
cold mutton which has been dusted with pepper and salt; 
add one dozen oysters and two dozen coarsely chopped 
button mushrooms, season, put a little butter over the top 
and bake. Send to table in the baking dish. 

Chicken Adrienne 

Take three thinly sliced .chicken livers, hearts, and giz- 
zards. Let them marinate in the juice of an onion, a tea- 



Entrees iS7 

spoon of mustard sauce, the juice of a lemon, a half saltspoon 
of pepper, a half teaspoon of salt, and a bud of garlic for one 
hour. Drain, sautd in butter, to which add a small wine- 
glass of sherry, four seeded raisins, and two truffles sliced 
thin. Take the breast of a boiled chicken, heat in the 
steamer, then butter lightly with p4t^-de-foie-gras, and lay 
it on toast sippets. Turn the sauce over it, garnish with 
cress, and serve with hot rolls and currant jelly. 

Jellied Calves' Tongues 

Trim and boil until tender two fresh calves' tongues, skin, 
and when cold lay in a wet mold, the heavy ends of the 
tongues at the ends of the mold. Have ready a tomato 
jelly made in the following way : One can of tomatoes, one 
sliced onion, a saltspoon of pepper, a half teaspoon of salt, 
a tablespoon of sugar, whites and shells of two eggs, two 
ounces of gelatine powder that has been dissolved in a little 
cold water, a tablespoon of vinegar, and three cups of water. 
Beat over the fire until it boils, then draw to one side and 
allow it to boil slowly for three minutes, then let it stand 
covered closely for five minutes, strain, and turn over the 
tongues. When cool set it near the ice to chill and become 
firm. When ready to serve turn on to a platter, garnish 
with fresh cress, and croutons spread thinly with pfi,t^-de- 
f oie-gras with a slice of truffle in the center of each. 

Savory Chipped Beef 

Take one jar, bottle, or box of the finest chipped beef; 
make a rich cream sauce, adding sufficient beef to serve 
the required portions, and garnish with toast sippets that 
have been lightly buttered and sprinkled with a little 
finely chopped watercress. 

Tripe k la Poulette 

Parboil a small quantity of tripe, drain, and cut into 
small pieces. Make a rich cream sauce highly seasoned. 



156 Entrees 

Banana and French Sausage Croquettes 

Steam four large bananas until tender, then mash them 
fine, add to them one small can of the French sausage, 
add a small cup of fine crumbs and a saltspoon of salt, 
half as much mignonette pepper, a teaspoon of green mus- 
tard with fine herbs, a tablespoon of melted butter, and one 
beaten egg, roll into croquettes, dip in egg, then in crumbs, 
and fry in butter. Drain and serve with broiled veal 
cutlets. 

Kidneys and Brandied Brown Sauce 

Prepare as many kidneys as are required for the number 
of guests; put them to boil in cold water; let them boil for 
two hours, changing the water seven times, and the last 
time throw in a spice bag, a half-cup of vinegar, a sliced 
onion, a pepper, and a half saltspoon of salt. When done 
remove and have ready a good brown sauce, made of one 
cup of beef stock and a cup of milk, thickened with flour 
and butter blended together, flavored with a small cup 
of sherry, one tablespoon of brandy, a dozen raisins, and 
six olives pared in curls from the stones. Serve very hot 
in covered dish. 

Toad in Hole 

Make a smooth batter of six ounces of flour, one pint 
of milk, and three eggs, beat smooth and turn into a well 
buttered baking dish. Into the batter lay a few slices of 
cold mutton which has been dusted with pepper and salt; 
add one dozen oysters and two dozen coarsely chopped 
button mushrooms, season, put a little butter over the top 
and bake. Send to table in the baking dish. 

Chicken Adrienne 

Take three thinly sliced .chicken livers, hearts, and giz- 
zards. Let them marinate in the juice of an onion, a tea- 



Entrees 157 

spoon of mustard sauce, the juice of a lemon, a half saltspoon 
of pepper, a half teaspoon of salt, and a bud of garlic for one 
hour. Drain, saut^ in butter, to which add a small wine- 
glass of sherry, four seeded raisins, and two truffles sliced 
thin. Take the breast of a boiled chicken, heat in the 
steamer, then butter lightly with p4t^-de-f oie-gras, and lay 
it on toast sippets. Turn the sauce over it, garnish with 
cress, and serve with hot rolls and currant jelly. 

Jellied Calves' Tongues 

Trim and boil until tender two fresh calves' tongues, skin, 
and when cold lay in a wet mold, the heavy ends of the 
tongues at the ends of the mold. Have ready a tomato 
jelly made in the following way : One can of tomatoes, one 
sliced onion, a saltspoon of pepper, a half teaspoon of salt, 
a tablespoon of sugar, whites and shells of two eggs, two 
otmces of gelatine powder that has been dissolved in a little 
cold water, a tablespoon of vinegar, and three cups of water. 
Beat over the fire until it boils, then draw to one side and 
allow it to boil slowly for three minutes, then let it stand 
covered closely for five minutes, strain, and turn over the 
tongues. When cool set it near the ice to chill and become 
firm. When ready to serve turn on to a platter, garnish 
with fresh cress, and croutons spread thinly with p§.t6-de- 
f oie-gras with a slice of truffle in the center of each. 

Savory Chipped Beef 

Take one jar, bottle, or box of the finest chipped beef; 
make a rich cream sauce, adding sufficient beef to serve 
the required portions, and garnish with toast sippets that 
have been lightly buttered and sprinkled with a little 
finely chopped watercress. 

Tripe k la Poulette 

Parboil a small quantity of tripe, drain, and cut into 
small pieces. Make a rich cream sauce highly seasoned. 



156 Entrees 

Banana and French Sausage Croquettes 

Steam four large bananas until tender, then mash them 
fine, add to them one small can of the French sausage, 
add a small cup of fine crumbs and a saltspoon of salt, 
half as much mignonette pepper, a teaspoon of green mus- 
tard with fine herbs, a tablespoon of melted butter, and one 
beaten egg^ roll into croquettes, dip in egg, then in crumbs, 
and fry in butter. Drain and serve with broiled veal 
cutlets. 

Kidneys and Biandied Brown Sauce 

Prepare as many kidneys as are required for the number 
of guests; put them to boil in cold water; let them boil for 
two hours, changing the water seven times, and the last 
time throw in a spice bag, a half-cup of vinegar, a sliced 
onion, a pepper, and a half saltspoon of salt. When done 
remove and have ready a good brown sauce, made of one 
cup of beef stock and a cup of milk, thickened with flour 
and butter blended together, flavored with a small cup 
of sherry, one tablespoon of brandy, a dozen raisins, and 
six olives pared in curls from the stones. Serve very hot 
in covered dish. 

Toad in Hole 

Make a smooth batter of six ounces of flour, one pint 
of milk, and three eggs, beat smooth and turn into a well 
buttered baking dish. Into the batter lay a few slices of 
cold mutton which has been dusted with pepper and salt; 
add one dozen oysters and two dozen coarsely chopped 
button mushrooms, season, put a little butter over the top 
and bake. Send to table in the baking dish. 

Chicken Adrienne 

Take three thinly sliced .chicken livers, hearts, and giz- 
zards. Let them marinate in the juice of an onion, a tea- 



Entrees 157 

spoon of mustard sauoe» the juice of a lemon, a half saltspoon 
of pepper, a half teaspoon of salt, and a bud of garlic for one 
hour. Drain, saut^ in butter, to which add a small wine- 
glass of sherry, four seeded raisins, and two trufSes sliced 
thin. Take the breast of a boiled chicken, heat in the 
steamer, then butter lightly with p4t^-de-f oie-gras, and lay 
it on toast sippets. Turn the sauce over it, garnish with 
cress, and serve with hot rolls and currant jelly. 

Jellied Cahres' Tongues 

Trim and boil until tender two fresh calves' tongues, skin, 
and when cold lay in a wet mold, the heavy ends of the 
tongues at the ends of the mold. Have ready a tomato 
jelly made in the following way: One can of tomatoes, one 
sliced onion, a saltspoon of pepper, a half teaspoon of salt, 
a tablespoon of sugar, whites and shells of two eggs, two 
ounces of gelatine powder that has been dissolved in a little 
cold water, a tablespoon of vinegar, and three cups of water. 
Beat over the fire until it boils, then draw to one side and 
allow it to boil slowly for three minutes, then let it stand 
covered closely for five minutes, strain, and turn over the 
tongues. When cool set it near the ice to chill and become 
firm. When ready to serve turn on to a platter, garnish 
with fresh cress, and croutons spread thinly with p&t6<le- 
foie-gras with a slice of truffle in the center of each. 

Savory Chipped Beef 

Take one jar, bottle, or box of the finest chipped beef; 
make a rich cream sauce, adding sufficient beef to serve 
the required portions, and garnish with toast sippets that 
have been lightly buttered and sprinkled with a little 
finely chopped watercress. 

Tripe k la Poulette 

Parboil a small quantity of tripe, drain, and cut into 
small pieces. Make a rich cream sauce highly seasoned. 



158 Entrees 

add the tripe and a teaspoon of finely chopped red pepper, 
and serve on toast garnished with crisp slices of bacon and 
fresh cress. Serve a dish of tart apple sauce with the 
entree. 

Scallop Blanquette 

Dip in egg and very fine crumbs six deep-sea scallops, 
and fry in hot fat to a delicate brown, drain, and place in a 
shallow open casserole; have ready a Newburg sauce made 
with cream. Turn it over the scallops. Dust lightly with 
grated English cheese, set in a hot oven long enough to 
melt and brown the cheese, and serve with tiny hot rolls 
and apricot jam. 

Ham Mousse 

Coat a wet mold with aspic and allow it to set. Put one 
pound of cold boiled ham through the meat chopper, add 
to it a tablespoon of Worcestershire sauce, a tablespoon of 
chutney syrup, four tablespoons of liquid aspic, two cups 
of whipped cream; beat well and pour into the mold and 
cover with a layer of the aspic. When it is turned out to 
serve, garnish with parsley and radish roses. 

Fiogs' Legs, Currant Sauce 

Prepare and fry four frogs* legs and lay them on buttered 
toast. Melt two tablespoons of currant jelly and add 
to it one tablespoon of madeira. Broil six mushrooms 
without the stems and lay them over the legs. Slice three 
truffles into the hot jelly, add pepper and salt, and turn it 
over the legs. Serve with hot raised biscuit and fresh 
radishes. 

Savory Cherokees 

Parboil in salted water one pair of sweetbreads. Cool, 
blanch, and cut in small pieces. Add three quarters of a 



Entrees 159 

cup of fresh, stoned cherries, a half cup of cracker dust, a 
tablespoon of grated cheese, a quarter saltspoon of pepper, a 
saltspoon of salt and beaten egg, a tablespoon of sherry to 
moisten the mixture, and fill well-buttered baking shells. 
Place a lump of butter on top and bake in moderate oven. 
Serve as entrte, garnished with parsley. 

Chinese Ft 



Delicately broil half a flounder. Make a cup of brown 
sauce from rich stock and brown flour. Add to it six water 
chestnuts sliced thin, a teaspoon of finely chopped celery, 
and a slice of finely shredded fresh pineapple. Pry three 
Spanish peppers in oil, drain, lay on the fish, turn the 
sauce over it, garnish with beet roses and cress, and serve 
with pineapple and ginger jam. 

Baked Beans and Honey 

Bake the beans after soaking and boiling in the usual 
way in a small individual pot, using honey in place of 
molasses to brown and sweeten them. Serve hot with 
brown bread toast and stewed rhubarb. 

liver Savory 

Take half a pound of calves' liver, boil until tender, chop 
very fine, add a tablespoon of melted currant jelly, a table- 
spoon of madeira, a quarter saltspoon of pepper, a half 
saltspoon of salt, four drops of onion juice, a pinch of savory 
herbs, and spread on a buttered toast square. Turn over 
it a tablespoon of asparagus tips moistened in melted but- 
ter. Serve with cucimiber jelly and Parker House rolls. 

Liver and Apple Rounds 

Boil a half pound of calves* liver until tender, then chop 
fine, season with a half saltspoon of pepper, a half teaspoon 
of salt, and heat in a generous Itunp of melted butter; 



i6o Entrees 

when hot, add two tablespoons of apple sauce and spread 
on a toast round, then lay another round on top with a 
spoonful of currant jelly in the center of it. 

Tongue Tomovers 

Boil, skin, and dice two calves' tongues; make a well- 
flavored tomato sauce, and marinate the tongue in it as it 
cools. Make a puff paste, cut in square shape, as for apple 
turnovers, fill with the mixture, and bake a delicate brown. 
Serve hot, garnished with watercress. 

Tripe ft la Creole 

Cut the tripe into strips three inches long and an inch 
and a half wide, using about a pound and a half. Fry one 
onion in butter, add to it a cupful of stock, a finely chopped 
pepper, a tablespoon of Worcestershire sauce, and six 
button mushrooms sliced. Thicken with butter and flour 
rubbed to a cream; season and add the tripe. Cook ten 
minutes and serve hot garnished with toast sippets. 

Sweetbread Olives 

Parboil a large pair of sweetbreads; when cold chop 
very fine, with two cold-boiled chicken livers, add a table- 
spoon of cold fried bread crumbs that were carefully drained, 
juice of an onion, teaspoon of Worcestershire sauce, a tea- 
spoon of finely ground nutmeats, a tablespoon of cream 
to bind the mixture; then mold into little olives about two 
inches long and an inch thick. Have individual molds 
lined with aspic, allow two olives to a portion with a table- 
spoon of vegetable mac^doine carefully drained and a table- 
spoon of Madagascar sauce, filling the mold with aspic. 
Chill, and when ready to serve turn on to lettuce leaves 
and garnish with a spray of cress and a radish rose. If not 
convenient to purchase the Madagascar sauce, heavy 
mayonnaise will do. 



Entr^ea i6i 

Sweetbreads H la Port 

Parboil a fresh large pair of sweetbreads in slightly salted 
water for twenty minutes; when done cut into small pieces 
and add a tablespoon of butter, a quarter saltspoon of 
pepper, a half teaspoon of salt, two tablespoons of cracker 
dust, and one beaten egg. Melt a quarter glass of currant 
jelly with a wine glass of good port wine and add to the 
mixture. Fill littiie ramekins that have been lightly 
buttered and grate a little cheese over the top of each. 
Bake a delicate brown and garnish with fresh cress and a 
slice of lemon. 

Sweetbreads and Mushrooms 

Take one pound of fresh mushrooms, peel, and use the 
tops only — the stems may be used in soup. Pry to a deli- 
cate brown in butter, seasoned with pepper and salt. 
Have ready a pair of sweetbreads that have been parboiled 
and blanched; dice and mix with the mushrooms. Make 
baskets of good pastry, shaping over patty pans; fill them 
with the mixture, sprinkling a little grated cheese on top 
and pinching on the handle. Bake fifteen minutes, serve 
on a doily, and garnish with a spray of fresh cress. 

Entr6e with Sweetbreads 

Another attractive entr^ is of sweetbread foundation. 
After parboiling a pair of sweetbreads, cut them fine, add a 
tablespoon of chopped celery, another of nuts, another of 
crumbs, juice of an onion, a saltspoon each of pepper 
and salt, a wineglass of sherry, a teaspoon of sugar, and 
a cup of smooth apple sauce. Roll out some pie crust 
and cut into squares; fill with the sweetbread mixture and 
fold like apple dumplings, putting a generous piece of 
butter in each. Bake a delicate brown in medium oven 
and serve garnished with cress and a tiny mold of mint 
jelly. 

IZ 



1 62 Entrees 

NOVEL USES OF PATE SHELLS 

Good pastry pAt6 shells should be used by the at-home 
cook much more frequently than they are, for they are 
capable of so many variations in different fillings, either 
made from left-overs or from new material, that they are 
well worth her consideration. The use of p4t& means 
individual service, which is always economy in both food 
and labor, no bread or rolls being necessary with them. 

The p&t6 shells, if purchased from a baker, must be made 
by one who thoroughly understands the art; they should 
be of fine crust, not necessarily of puff paste, but crust 
which, if it is cooled, will bear heating again without becoming 
oily or indigestible. If the shells are homemade they are 
usually better than those one can purchase, though it takes 
a little knack in learning to shape them. The best 
butter, fresh lard, sweet milk, icewater, and pastry flour 
insure the best paste, and many good cooks think that a 
tiny bit of baking powder in the pie crust gives it lightness 
and fine texture. 

Codfish Tongue PAt6 

Secure six medium-size codfish tongues, parboil them 
until tender, and when done trim and dice them. Add to 
them two coarsely diced hard-boiled eggs, one finely minced 
red pepper, and six chopped olives. Make a cream sauce 
and add the tongue, and just before taking the mixture from 
the fire add half a glass of sherry. Fill p&t6 shells and 
heat. Garnish the patds with fresh cress. 

Sweetbread P&t^ 

Parboil, blanch, and dice a large pair of sweetbreads. 
Take one cup of button mushrooms, chop them coarsely, 
slice six trufHes into thin slices and add these to the sweet- 
breads. For the sauce squeeze the juice of one large lemon 
into the saucepan and add to it a lump of butter the size 



Entries 163 

of a hen*s egg; when melted together add a saltspoon of 
bicarbonate of soda and a cup of cold cream. Mix a table- 
spoon of cornstarch in half a cup of milk and add this also 
to the sauce and stir until the mixture is as thick as cold 
honey ; add a quarter saltspoon of cayenne pepper, half a 
teaspoon of salt, and a teaspoon of onion juice, then add the 
sweetbread mixture and allow all to cook gently for five 
minutes. If it should be a little too thick add a little plain 
cream. When done fill the p&t6 shells with it and heat. 
Garnish with olive curls lightly spread with anchovy 
paste. 

Mac6dome Vegetable PAt6 

Open and drain one bottle of mac6doine of vegetables, 
addtothem a teaspoon of chopped parsley and a teaspoon of 
chopped tarragon leaves. Make the sauce in the following 
way: Pare and slice six onions, fry them in two ounces of 
butter a delicate brown; when done and a good color, pour 
over them a pint of good rich stock, add a quarter saltspoon 
of pepper, a saltspoon of salt, and a little savory seasoning, 
then let all simmer gently until the onions are very tender. 
Then put through a sieve, put it back in the saucepan, and 
add the vegetables; let all boil up for five minutes until 
heated thoroughly. If the gravy seems a little thin add a 
little browned flour made smooth in a little water. When 
done fill the pAt6 shells with the mixture, heat and serve 
garnished with a sweet pickled pimento. 

Oyster Vkt6 

Make the cream first after the following rule: Melt a 
large tablespoon of butter, add to it the juice of half a 
lemon and a level saltspoon of bicarbonate of soda. While 
it is foaming up add a cup of rich milk or part cream, in 
which a teaspoon of cornstarch has been dissolved. 
Stir carefully until it is the proper consistency, taking care 



164 Entrees 

that it does not bum, then set aside to keep warm. Scald 
the oysters in their own liquor and when the edges curl, in 
a couple of minutes, they are done. Drain them carefully 
and add them to the hot cream, with salt and pepper to 
taste, and fill the p&t^ shells garnishing with parsley. This 
fills six shells. 

Duck Pftt6 

Take the remains of a large roast duck that has already 
served as a meal and cut the meat from the rack in very 
fine pieces. Add to this a half saltspoon of pepper, a half 
teaspoon of salt, and a half saltspoon of mignonette pepper; 
put into a stewpan one onion cut in thin slices with a half 
pint of white stock, with four strips of lemon peel, five leaves 
of sweet basil and let all simmer gently for a quarter of 
an hour, then add the juice of a large orange and that 
of half a lemon and one glass of port wine. When it has 
boiled up strain and put it back into the saucepan, add the 
meat and two thinly sliced truffles, heat again, and when it 
reaches boiling point if the sauce seems too thin add a 
little browned flour mixed smoothly with a little water. 
Pill the pSiU shells with the mixture and garnish with a 
spray of fresh cress. 

Tuna Fish and Pineapple Pftt6 

Free one can of tuna fish from all skin and bone and flake 
it; grate one medium-sized sweet pineapple and add it to the 
fish. Take one cup of dry bread cnmibs and fry them a 
delicate brown in butter, stirring them constantly so that 
they are evenly done; drain them carefully and add them to 
the fish. Next make a good English brown sauce with a 
pound of round steak diced, one sliced onion, bunch of 
savory herbs, diced carrot, potato, two cloves, spray of 
parsley, and let all simmer until the goodness is all extracted 
from the meat; strain, then put back into the saucepan, 
and thicken with a little browned flour and butter mixed to 



Entrees 165 

paste. When the right consistency, add the fish and pine- 
apple with the crumbs, let all boil up once and then fill the 
pkti shells with the mixture. Serve garnished with a little 
finely chopped red pepper. 

Tiipe Creole Pftt68 

Wash and cut enough honeycomb tripe into small pieces 
to fill three cups, place it in a dean linen doth, and wring 
the water out of it. Mdt two tablespoons of butter and 
add one tablespoon of chopped onion, cook until slightly 
browned, then add two tablespoons of finely chopped green 
pepper and one half a chopped red pepper. Add one 
tablespoon of flour, one cup of red stock, a half cup of 
drained tomato juice, a tablespoon of Worcestershire sauce, 
six button mushrooms sliced, pepper, salt to taste, a table- 
spoon of chutney syrup, and let all boil for five minutes, then 
add the tripe and simmer gently for ten minutes more or 
tmtil the tripe is done. Fill the p&t^ shells and garnish 
each with a slice of fried tomato. 

Salad Pftt6 

Free one heavy grapefruit from the white skin and break 
the pulp into pieces; wash, halve and stone enough white 
grapes to make two cups and add them to the grapefruit 
with a half cup of chopped pecan nuts and one cup of 
chopped pineapple; put the entire mixture into a white 
enamd strainer to drain and chill. Chop enough white 
celery to make one cup and cut one white lettuce heart 
into strips with the kitchen sdssors. Have ready a cup of 
mayonnaise made with walnut oil, and just before serving 
toss the salad lightly in the mayonnaise and then fill the 
pat^ shells with it. Take a little of the mayonnaise and 
add to it a little whipped cream and put a spoonful of this 
on top of each pSLt6 and sprinkle with a dash of paprika. 
This mixtture should fill six p&t^ shells. Serve cold. 



i66 Entrees 

Cucumber and Liver Pftt6 

Take one pound of calves' liver, wash and boil it until 
very tender in fair water, then chop fine. Peel, quarter, and 
remove the seeds from three cucumbers, slice them then in 
medium slices, throw them into boiling water and keep it 
at boiling point for ten minutes, strain, and dry them with a 
soft doth. Melttwoouncesof butterand put the cucumbers 
into it, stirring them constantly until they are a good color, 
then pour over them a small cup of brown gravy and add 
a quarter saltspoon of pepper, a saltspoon of salt, and the 
juice of an pnion, and simmer gently for ten minutes, then 
add a tablespoon of chutney syrup. Pry one small cup 
of bread crumbs in butter, drain, and add them to the 
liver with four thinly sliced truffles; now add the liver 
mixture to the sauce and heat all together, bringing them to 
boiling point. Fill the p&t6 shells with the mixture, 
garnishing each with currant jelly. 

Pineapple Pftt€s 

Take two cups of preserved pineapple, drain it, and add 
to it half a cup of preserved ginger chopped and enough 
ginger syrup to moisten the mixture, then add one table- 
spoon each of finely powdered macaroon and chopped 
pecan nuts. Fill the p&t6 shells with this mixture, heap 
them with whipped cream, place a tiny green preserved 
melon on the top. Serve cold. 

Banana PAt£s 

Take one cup of vanilla syrup and one cup of honey and 
melt them together; take eight medixmi-sized bananas, cut 
them in thick slices, add them to the syrup with the juice 
of a lemon, the thinly pared rind, and four cloves; let all 
simmer together until the bananas are thoroughly done. 
When cooked let cool, then fill the pkt6 shells with the ba- 
nana and as much juice as it will hold, removing the cloves 



Entrees 167 

and lemon peel. Heap with whipped cream and garnish 
with a candied cherry. Serve cold. 

Plum Pftt£ 

Halve and stone enough blue plums after washing them 
to allow four halves to a p6it6. Make a good vanilla syrup, 
then cook the plum halves in it until they are thoroughly 
done and the S3rrup has cooked down rich and heavy, add 
a half cup of blanched, coarsely chopped almonds and a 
tablespoon of blanched pistachio nuts and a tablespoon of 
stoned and chopped raisins. When cool fill the p&t^ 
and heap them with whipped cream that has been colored 
a delicate green by a little breton coloring. This p&t^ may 
be chilled or it may be served hot with the whipped cream 
added in either case at the last moment. Peaches may be 
used in the same way as the plums if they are better liked. 

Poached Eggs ft la Reine 

Dice the white meat of a boiled chicken and put it into a 
rich cream sauce. Fill hot p&t6 shells with the mixture 
and lay a poached egg on top of each, covering it with some 
of the cream sauce set aside for the purpose. Garnish 
with sprays of parsley and serve hot as soon as the egg is 
placed on the pftt^. 

Ham Patties in Aspic 

Chop just as fine as possible enough boiled ham to fill 
two cups; season to taste; add a tablespoon of Worcester- 
shire sauce, a tablespoon of chopped nutmeats, and one 
beaten egg to bind the mixture. Shape into patties, roll in 
heavy mayonnaise, cover with aspic, and garnish the top 
with a tru£9e. 

FRITTERS 

Fritters can be served as a vegetable or as a'sweet course 
for luncheon, dinner, or supper, and they often serve a very 



1 68 Entrees 

convenient purpose. Whether they are sweet or plain the 
foundation batter is much the same. The fat in which they 
are to be fried must always be the very freshest and best 
that can be procured, and if it is to be used a second time it 
must be carefully strained through cheesecloth wrung out of 
hot water and laid inside the fine sieve. This insures the 
perfect cleanliness of the grease for a second using. It is a 
good idea if fritters are liked and used very often to keep 
a small lard pail with tight-fitting cover ready which may be 
freshly scalded to receive the left-over and strained grease. 

Of course the lard in which vegetable fritters have been 
fried cannot be used for frying sweet fritters, for it is sure 
to have become tainted with the vegetable flavor. The 
lard used for sweet fritters may, however, be used later for 
frying vegetables. 

The sweet fritters are best served, after draining, in a 
napkin. The sauce that goes with them may be served in 
a little ttireen. If the fritters are served as a garnish they 
are placed around the platter, while the vegetable fritters 
if served with a heavy sauce are placed upon a platter by 
themselves and prettily garnished. 

This foundation battermay be used for nearly all kinds of 
fritters with but slight variations: 

Plain Fritter Batter — One cup of flour, half a teaspoon of 
baking powder, quarter teaspoon of salt, two eggs, and one 
cup of milk. The dry ingredients should be sifted carefully 
together and the eggs beaten before they are added to the 
nulk, then the whole beaten until it is very smooth. 

Vegetable Fritters 

Make the batter in the usual way. Take a small bottle 
of mac^doine of vegetables and drain them; add to them a 
half teaspoon of salt, a saltspoon of pepper, a teaspoon of 
sugar, a grated onion, teaspoon of finely chopped parsley, 
and toss them lightly in half a cup of whipped cream and stir 
all into the batter. Fry the fritters and serve them in a 



Entreea 169 

napkin garnished with lemon quarters and parsley. Serve 
with them fennel sauce, which is made of a half pint of 
melted butter and a tablespoon of carefully washed and 
chopped fresh fennel seed. Let the butter come to the 
boiling point, add the fennel, simmer for two minutes, and 
serve hot. 

For Gam and Oyster Fritters 

Steam open twenty-five clams, take from the shells, 
and chop fine. Take one cup of the clam juice and let it 
get cold. Make the fritter batter as above, using the cup 
of clam juice and a half cup of milk; after it is beaten smooth 
add the chopped dams, pepper, and salt, and fry the fritters 
in the usual way. 

Usually uncooked clams are put into the fritter batter, 
but this is a mistake, they should be steamed first, for 
otherwise they never get thoroughly cooked through and 
the fritter is not inviting. Possibly this is the reason it 
is not more popular. For oyster fritters take twenty-five 
oysters, strain them from their juice, let it come to boiling 
point, drop in the oysters, and let them boil up once, 
then remove and drain them. When cold chop them. 
Carefully strain a cup of the liquor they were boiled in and 
proceed in the same way as was done with the clam fritters. 
Serve them in a napkin and in a small tureen. Serve a little 
carefully melted butter with the juice of half a lemon, a 
dash of red pepper, and a teaspoon of finely chopped tarragon 
leaves added. 

Tuna Fish Fritters 

Take one can of tuna fish, flake it, and whip it light 
with the white of one stiflSy beaten egg. Add to it a quarter 
saltspoon of pepper, a half saltspoon of salt, a half saltspoon 
of curry powder, and a teaspoon of Worcestershire sauce 
and beat it lightly through the batter, which is ready mixed, 
using two eggs as usual in it. Pry in the usual way and 
serve in a napkin with the following cuctunber sauce: 



I70 Entreea 

Peel, quarter, and remove the seeds from three cucumbers, 
cut them in small pieces, put them in a doth, and squeeze 
the water out of them. Then saut6 them in two ounces 
of butter tmtil they begin to brown, add a small cup of good 
brown sauce which has been highly seasoned, and boil 
together for eight minutes. Turn into a tureen and serve 
with the fritters. 

Sweetbread Fritters 

Parboil, blanch, and chop fine one pair of sweetbreads; 
add to them a small red pepper and half a cup of mush- 
rooms, also chopped fine, one small grated onion, and a 
tablespoon of chutney syrup; stir into the batter and fry. 
Serve with a horseradish sauce made as follows: Take 
four tablespoons of grated horseradish, one teaspoon of 
sugar, one of salt, and two of mixed Bnglish mustard, and 
half a teaspoon of pepper. Add enough tarragon vinegar 
to make the mixture the consistency of thick cream. When 
thoroughly mixed add four tablespoons of sweet cream, set 
into a double boiler and let it get hot, but do not allow it to 
boil. Serve at once with the fritters. 

Ginger Fdtters 

Take one half cup of preserved ginger, chop it very fine, 
and add to it one cup of preserved mirabelles, add to the 
batter, and after frying serve a flavored syrup or a boiled 
pudding sauce with the fritters. For all fruit fritters a 
convenient sauce is made of a cup of sugar and a half cup of 
water. Melt and boil together for five minutes and flavor 
with a teaspoon of vanilla, pistachio, rose, almond, orange 
flower, or oil of clove flavoring. These may be varied with 
the different fruits used. 

Grapefruit Fritters 

Prepare the grapefruit the same as for salad, draining 
slightly if it is too juicy. Add to it six macaroons that have 



Entreee 171 

been powdered, dust with sugar, and add a teaspoon of 
vanilla. Mix well with the plain batter and fry delicately. 
Serve in a napkin with a syrup sauce flavored with pistachio 
or with the maple and walnut sauce so often used on ice 
cream. 

Spanish Fritters 

Make the batter in the usual way. Then open a small 
bottle of the ready mixed Spanish omelet filling. This is 
very highly seasoned, and the vegetables and peppers 
are all cut in the usual way. Add to this a half cup of 
grated pineapple, if at hand, or a half cup of apple sauce. 
Add to the batter and fry. Serve with a Russian mayon- 
naise made in this way. Add enough ketchup to the may- 
oimaise to color it pink, chop together two olives, a strip of 
red pepper, a few tarragon leaves, and one small gherkin 
pickle. Add this to the sauce with the juice of an onion. 
These fritters are even more hearty if served with a rich, 
smooth tomato sauce. 

Calves' Liver Fritters 

Take one pound of calves' liver and boil it until tender. 
Then remove and chop very fine. Add to it pepper, salt, 
two tablespoons of apple juice, the juice of an onion, and 
lighten it with the beaten whites of two eggs. Add the 
mixture to the batter and fry. Serve with the fritters one 
small tumbler of melted currant jelly. 

Beef Fritters 

Chop enough cold roast beef after freeing it from fat and 
gristle to fill a cup, add to it one grated onion, a teaspoon of 
chopped tarragon leaves, a teaspoon of mustard sauce, a tea- 
spoon of Worcestershire sauce, a quarter saltspoon of pepper, 
a saltspoon of salt, and whip it light with the white of one 
egg beaten stiff. Add it to the batter as quickly as it is 
light, mix thoroughly, and fry at once. 



172 Entrees 

Lobster 



Take enough cold boiled lobster to fill a cup, and cut it 
very fine. Add to it a half saltspoon of pepper, a saltspoon of 
salt, a teaspoon of melted butter, two teaspoons of chutney 
syrup, and add it to the batter. Fry in the usual way and 
serve a tartare sauce with the fritters or heavy mayonnaise 
to which a little whipped cream is added just before serving. 
Crab flakes or cold boiled shrimp may be used in the same 
way. 






ART OF CARVING 

For the man of family, where the real home table is still 
maintained and the joint or fowl is carved at table, it is an 
economic necessity that he understand every branch of the 
art. Where the carving is done in the kitchen, as in many 
modem households, the waste and shrinkage is infinitely 
greater than by the old-fashioned table service, and with the 
advanced price of living this is most disastrous to a not too 
plethoric pocketbook. 

The first requisite of the carver is a knowledge of the 
anatomy of the fowl or joint that he is about to dissect. 
The second is sharp and appropriate knives for the purpose 
and a platter in every way adequate in size for the contents. 
He may then proceed with fairly high hopes of success. 

The art in carving a turkey is to get as many fine slices 
from the breast as possible and to sever each joint at the 
proper point deftly and in the least time possible, so that the 
guests do not grow impatient and the other viands grow 
cold. 

Every good carver knows that the presence of the wish- 
bone is an obstacle in the cutting of perfect slices from the 
breast. By taking it out before the bird is cooked the 
carver can cut down through both light and dark meat in 
the same slice. To remove the bone slip a knife under each 
prong and cut upward to the point. Turn the bone back- 
ward and then cut out the point of the bone. It will be 
found that in this way scarcely a shred of meat is lost. If 
pulled downward the flesh will be torn. 

If the turkey has been properly trussed and stuffed and 
roasted on its breast instead of its back, so that all the 

173 



174 -Art of Carving 

juices run into the white meat, it should present a plump 
and compact appearance when placed before the carver 
with its legs at his right hand. The carver places the 
fork firmly and securely across the top of the breastbone, 
so as to have complete control of the bird, and it should not 
be removed during the operation. He then severs the leg 
at the first joint; then deftly cuts out the second joint; then 
removes the wing at the shoulder joint and that leaves 
the entire side ready for slicing. After as many slices as 
possible have been removed from the breast, narrow slices 
from each side of the space left after the removal of the 
second joint will give enough dark meat to serve a little to 
each, with a spoonful of stufiSng which may be released by 
slitting the apron which may have been sewed carefully 
to retain the mixture from falling untidily into the pan while 
roasting. 

If the sinews have been properly removed from the legs 
by the butcher or the home cook, the legs are proper to 
serve. This is done by making an incision at the knee 
joint and with a round skewer draw out the two large ten- 
dons, then open the joints back and ten more tendons are 
disclosed. Draw them carefully if not all as many as can 
be gotten and then the leg when cooked will be as desirable 
as any other part of the bird. 

The wing should be severed at the joint before serving, 
as it is a hard joint to manage on the plate. The meat may 
be cut from the second joint before serving or served as a 
joint, as the carver thinks best. Of course, removing the 
neck and turning in the skin with a spoonful of stuffing in 
French fashion makes the best looking bird when served and 
gives greater slicing facility. 

If both sides of the turkey are to be used at the meal the 
carver need not remove the fork, but simply turn the bird 
toward him and grasp the fork with the back of the hand 
uppermost. The larger roasted chickens and ducks are 
carved in practically the same manner, though the English 
method of carving the duck is to take as many slices from 



Art of Carving 175 

the breast as possible, carving upward from the wing joint 
before removing the wing. A tough fowl and an old goose 
are sad triers to a carver's patience and skill as well as to 
his temper, but, if the usual rules are followed, these obstacles 
may be overcome with practice and perseverance. 

Lamb Carving 

After poultry, perhaps lamb carving in its various phases 
is the next consideration in the list of carvers' difficulties. 
The leg is perhaps more often met with as a popular family 
joint than the saddle, loin, or shoulder; the forequarter is a 
bit more complicated and requires a little more thought and 
manipulation on the part of the carver. The leg» carefully 
roasted, should be placed upon the dish with the leg bone 
at the carver's left hand. Place the carving fork a little to 
the left of the center, over the bone, to hold the meat firmly; 
then carve down the center, first to the right then to the 
left, loosening the meat from the bone by a sideways motion 
of the knife. Sometimes the joint is served with the under 
side uppermost, so that the fine grained piece, known as the 
Pope's eye, may be easily found, but it is not a general way of 
serving. The forequarter is a little more difficult to man- 
age, for it is rather an art to separate the shoulder from the 
breast neatly so that the ribs may be readily reached. 

In pork carving, perhaps the greatest trial of the carver's 
skill is in carving the suckling pig, which is not as apt to be 
met with as the hams, both cured and fresh are. A few 
very simple directions may be sufficient. 

Li carving the wee roast pig first cut oflE the head. Then 
the ham and next the shoulder facing the carver. Then 
remove the slice between the two portions removed which 
is part of the belly and this will enable the carver to reach 
the stuffing. The shoulder and ham may then be sliced 
as well as slices taken from the back. See in serving that 
each plate is supplied with a piece of lean and a piece of fat 
meat and a spoonful of dressing. 



176 Art of Carving 

Veal Joints 

Next are the poptilar veal joints, which, perhaps, are the 
least complicated of all. The shoulder is usually boned, 
then stuffed, so to slice it is no trick at all. The loin, if 
the butcher knows his business, has been divided so that 
the joints of the bones are easily found, and with each por- 
tion serve a bit of the kidney and kidney fat that lies under- 
neath this cut. The carving of the breast of veal is not 
dissimilar from that of the forequarter of lamb, the first 
thing being to remove the shoulder to reveal the ribs. The 
calf's head is rarely served on American tables whole, but is 
usually in soup or mode dishes. 

In beef roasts and joints the complications are not 
serious for the inexperienced carver. He must develop his 
quick intuition and learn to dodge skewers. If they are 
the old wooden variety they are hard to pull out, but the 
silver or steel ones are easily removed with the fork or the 
thumb and first finger of the right hand. A rolled roast is 
the rib roast with the ribs removed and the meat rolled, 
tied, and skewered in place. The fat is scored so as to let 
the meat roll properly, and it is simply carved by slicing 
across the top from right to left, holding it firmly with the 
carving fork well placed low on the left side. 

The standing rib roast is carved by passing the knife 
slowly across the heavy end to free the meat from the ribs 
from right to left, then it is ready to slice thinly. If the 
roast is a sirloin, it is a good idea for the carver to turn the 
roast over and remove the under cut so as to serve a slice 
with each slice of the upper cut. 



MEATS 

In purchasing meat for the table, one should be sure, if 
it is beef, that it is bright red in color and well streaked 
with fat. Veal should be pink; mutton, a dullish red 
and streaked with fat; lamb, dark pink; and pork, pale 
pink. The fat and suet of beef should be just off the white, 
rather a very faint cream. The fats of the other meats 
should be white, although that of mutton inclines to be 
yellowish. 

The coarser and therefore cheaper cuts of meat have the 
same nutritive value as the choicer and more expensive 
cuts. However, the flavor and tenderness of the latter 
doubtless have a greater effect in stimulating the flow of 
saliva and other digestive juices. 

Beef and mutton are at their best during the winter 
months but are used all year around. Veal and lamb are 
at their best in spring. Venison, when it is to be had, is 
good after the first frost in fall. The rabbit season lasts 
from November to February. Nearly all the game birds 
are at their best around the holidays. Turkeys and capons 
are good from Thanksgiving time to very early spring. 
Ducklings are the finest from late August to November. 

BEEF 

Only the usual cuts of beef that the market affords will 
be spoken of herein as they are most familiar to the ordinary 
housekeeper and if an intimate knowledge of them is 
acquired it will mean an tmderstanding of their best uses 
in reducing the cost of living. If one is in doubt as to just 
13 177 



178 Meats 

what pieces of meat are the best and is unfamiliar with their 
appearance, an hour spent in the shop of a good butcher 
who carries a large stock will be well spent, and they are 
usually very glad to answer intelligent questions. 

In steaks the flat or double-boned sirloin, hip bone sirloin, 
porterhouse, delmonico, top round, flank, chuck, and pin 
bone are the best known. The first four are for broiling, 
the top round and flank though often broiled are better 
stuffed, rolled, and roasted. The chuck and pin bone are 
good in stews or meat pies. Of all the steaks the porter- 
house is the best for planking. 

For roasting there are three prime rib roasts, while the 
chuck roast is the largest and most economical. The tender- 
loin is usually larded and served as a filet of beef. The 
various pieces used for coming are the rump, brisket, 
navel, and plate. 

The usual methods of cooking beef are to roast, boil, 
broil, fry, braise, and pot roast it. The meat loses in weight 
in all processes but the most so in boiling. Grilling is 
cooking before the fire on a spit or in an open oven, the 
method being more popular in England than in America, 
though large hotels and restaurants are cooking in this 
way constantly; but few private homes being equipped 
with facilities for so doing. 

Larding 

In what is so-called high-class cookery there is nothing 
more important than to know how to lard a fowl or a roast 
properly, as oftentimes upon the success of the operation 
depends the ultimate tenderness of the meat. 

The larding needles come in sets with all sizes needed for 
all ptirposes, and require only to be thoroughly cleansed 
after using to be always in readiness. 

The regular larding pork is very deep and has a firm rind. 
Very sharp knives are required to prepare it without 
mangling it. It should be cut in strips an eighth of an inch 



Meats 179 

square, and from two to ten inches long, according to the 
purpose for which it is to be used. 

Lay the piece of meat to be larded on a napkin on the 
table where it may be held securely in place with the left 
hand, while the right hand uses the needle. Force the 
pork strips into the end of the needle and draw them 
through the meat one inch apart. If one wishes to have a 
very fancy roast strips of macaroni may be drawn through 
the meat and strips of carrot of the same size ; then when the 
meat is done the slices will have the tiny white rings and 
red cubes all through them. In larding birds use the short 
needles and smaller pieces of pork, being sure to lard each 
side of the backbone. Tiny birds too small to lard should 
be folded in two slices of the pork and tied with kitchen tape. 

A folding wooden stool to use when basting meat in the 
oven is quite a comfort in the kitchen. 

Roast Beef 

Place the piece of beef to be roasted on a low rack, putting 
a quarter of a cup of water in the dripping pan below. Put 
in a hot oven and after cooking fifteen minutes slightly 
reduce the heat. Allow fifteen minutes to each pound. 
Baste often and add salt and pepper just before the meat is 
done. If roasted in a gauze-door range the cooking will be 
perfectly done and without danger of burning. But a 
gas or electric oven will have to be closely watched. 

Boiled Beef 

For boiling use the brisket, put it over the fire in boiling 
water, allowing it fifteen minutes to the pound in cooking. 
Let cook evenly and a half hour before it is done add the 
seasoning. The beef is nice served with horseradish sauce, 
or cold sliced with any sauce liked. 

Pot Roast 

A most excellent pot roast larded with macaroni is pre- 
pared in the following way: — ^After larding, lay on a white 



i8o Meats 

kitchen plate with a small piece of suet in the bottom of it. 
Cover with a thinly sliced onion, a bunch of soup greens 
washed and cut fine, a cup of vinegar and two of cold water, 
a bay leaf, a clove, six raisins, three thin slices of lemon, a 
teaspoon of salt, a saltspoon of pepper, and a tablespoon of 
sugar. Simmer and slowly boil for four hours or until the 
meat is tender, then remove the meat, free it from all vege- 
tables, strain the gravy, thicken it as much as it needs to 
be, add six fresh raisins, and serve hot in a tureen. Garnish 
the meat with fresh watercress and serve mashed potatoes 
so that the gravy may be fully enjoyed. 

Sour Roast 

Take four pounds of top or bottom round beef, run 
through with a larding needle a dozen stems of macaroni, 
lay on the grating in pot on a slice of larding pork. Slice 
one large .onion thin, one carrot, one potato, and add, with 
a bunch of parsley, two stalks of finely cut celery, six raisins, 
three cloves, one bay leaf, and a half a bud of garlic. Just 
cover with cold water and a cup of vinegar, cover closely 
and boil slowly three or four hours; then remove the meat, 
strain the gravy, then thicken it to the consistency of honey, 
add three or four fresh cloves and a dozen seeded raisins, 
pepper, salt, and a dash of sugar. Serve in a tureen with 
the meat. 

Corned Beef 

Select a piece which has not been in com more than 
four or five days, wash it carefully, and put it on to boil 
in cold dear water. When it has boiled half an hour 
throw off the water and have a teakettle of hot water 
ready to turn right over it. Then let it boil three or four 
hours, or until it is perfectly tender. To make sure that 
you get just the sort of beef that will cut up to the best 
advantage, it is a good idea for the housewife to select it 
herself, and then let the butcher com it for her. Three to 



Meata i8i 

five days is long enough for the meat to com. When' the 
meat is done allow it to partially cool in the water. 

Coarse Hash 

Cut enough of the beef into small pieces to make a cup 
and a half of meat; cut two boiled potatoes, three medium- 
sized cold boiled beets, and one medium-sized yellow turnip 
into small pieces and add them to the meat. Take two 
slices of fat pickled pork, try it out in a saucepan, remove the 
rinds, and turn into the hash. Add a saltspoon of pepper, a 
very little salt, a teaspoon of sugar, and half a cup of hot 
water. Cover the pan and let the hash cook slowly until 
all the moisture has been taken up, leaving the hash soft 
and well cooked. This makes the original New England 
** coarse hash." 

Fine Hash 

For the fine hash, made possibly from the last of the 
meat, take enough cold boiled potatoes chopped to make 
two cups, and one cup of the chopped corned beef. Put a 
lump of butter into the frying pan and half a cup of water. 
Add the hash, seasoning it with salt, pepper, and a teaspoon 
of sugar, and cover tightly. Cook it until it is just as dry or 
moist as is liked. A good addition to this hash is a cup of 
apple sauce; or, if one likes it better, a cup of very finely 
chopped cold boiled beets. 

Beef Loaf 

For the loaf take three pounds of chopped raw beef, one 
quarter of a pound of minced salt pork, one cupful of cracker 
dust, two teaspoons of salt, one of pepper, the juice of one 
onion, a tablespoon of Worcestershire sauce, one tart apple 
chopped very fine with one stalk of celery, and two well 
beaten eggs. Mold together and work in two tablespoons of 
melted butter; when thoroughly mixed, pack a well buttered 



1 82 Meats 

mold, cover closely, and place in a roasting pan of boiling 
water. Cook in a steady oven for two hours, turn onto a 
hot platter, garnish with cress, and serve with a brown 
gravy. 

Rump of Beef k la Mode 

Take six pounds of beef from the rump; lard it well with 
salt pork. Season with salt, pepper, minced parsley, and a 
dash of nutmeg. Place in an earthen bowl with sliced 
carrots and onions and pour over it one half pint of brandy. 
Let it marinate in a cool place for one day, turning it 
over frequently. Then drain and wipe the surface dry, 
set it in a saucepan or P. & M. cooker with some fat and 
roast brown; then add a pint of good white wine, suflScient 
beef broth to cover the meat, two calf's feet that have been 
split and blanched, and a few bones. Season with a bunch of 
parsley tied with celery tops, a saltspoon each of pepper, 
salt, and thyme, a clove of garlic, two onions, two carrots, 
and the brandy which was left in the bowl. Let boil five 
minutes, then cover tightly and set in the oven to simmer 
two hours. Take out the meat and drain it, and strain the 
gravy. When nearly cold cut into slices and arrange on an 
oval dish with the slices overlapping. Place around the 
edge braised carrots, glazed onions, and some French peas; 
then pour the strained gravy over all and put in ice-box 
to chill until the gravy sets in jelly. Garnish with cress 
and olive rings. 

Beef Olives 

Take two pounds of rump steak sliced rather thin and 
cut in six or seven pieces, brush over with egg, roll in a 
mixttire of pepper, salt, savory herbs, minced onion, a little 
minced celery, a few fine bread crumbs, and butter and 
fasten with a small skewer. 

Lay olives in a stewpan where they fit close together, so 
as to keep their shape, covering each with a slice of bacon; 



Meats 183 

turn over them a pint of well seasoned stock, cover closely, 
stew very gently for two hours, remove, and place on the 
platter. Add a little thickening to the gravy, season it a 
little higher, boil, turn over the olives, and garnish with 
parsley. 

FQet Marine 

Cut out the fillet from the roast of beef, dust with salt 
and pepper, squeeze the juice from one onion over it, add a 
tablespoon of tarragon vinegar and two of best sweet 
oil, and put it in the oven. Baste it carefully and serve 
with fried potatoes. 

Casserole Roast 

Two pounds round steak, cut into small pieces, one can of 
peas, one half can of tomatoes, one carrot sliced, one onion 
sliced, four cloves, one quarter cup of well soaked tapioca, 
one quarter cup of soft bread crumbs, salt and pepper to 
taste. 

[ Cover with water and cook in casserole in the oven 
three hours, covered closely. 

Kidney Stew 

Skin and parboil two kidneys, changing the water fre- 
quently. When tender remove the kidneys and cut them 
into quarters and lay them in a glass of white wine (or Tar- 
ragon vinegar) with one dove and three raisins. Prepare a 
brown sauce from one pound of beef cut fine, a soup bunch, 
and water enough to cover. Simmer gently one hour ; strain, 
thicken with butter and flour creamed, season, and add the 
kidneys and the wine. Boil up and serve poured over dry 
toast sippets for a breakfast dish. 

*^ Bubble and Squeak" 

Pry in butter a few thin slices of cold boiled beef, taking 
care not to dry them up. Lay them on a hot platter and 



i84 Meats 

cover them with the following sauce: Have boiled very 
tender and chopped one Savoy cabbage and one quart of 
Brussels sprouts; drain them after they are chopped. Slice 
an onion very thin and put in a frying pan with butter, 
sprinkle with pepper and salt, and when it begins to brown 
put in the chopped greens. Heat all very hot, dust with 
pepper, salt, and a teaspoon of powdered sugar, and when 
the onion is thoroughly done turn all over the beef and 
serve. 

Brown Stew 

Take two pounds of chuck meat and cut it in small pieces, 
being careful to cut it across the grain so it will be tender 
and not stringy. Flour each piece and have ready in a 
frying pan a little hot fat. Put in the meat and brown the 
pieces quickly on both sides, then remove them and put 
them into the stewpan. Mix two tablespoons of flour with a 
cup and a half of water and ttim it into the fat the meat 
was browned in and let it slightly thicken, then pour it over 
the meat with a cup of tomato juice, a saltspoon each of 
pepper and salt, a sliced onion, and a diced carrot. Bring 
to boiling point, then simmer, keeping the gravy just deep 
enough to cover the meat. Fifteen minutes before the 
stew is to be served drop in the dumplings, season, and 
cover tightly. Dumplings for the stew are quick ones. 

To mix the dtunpling batter sift two cups of flour with 
two level teaspoons of baking powder, one teaspoon of salt, 
and a cup of sweet milk. Mix thoroughly and drop by 
tablespoons into the boiling liquid, dipping the tablespoon 
into the hot liquid often, as the heat makes the batter drop 
from the spoon more quickly. The dtunplings never 
sink, but float upon the surface. The hot liquid cooks the 
lower half while the upper half is practically steam cooked. 
This is why the cover should not be raised tmtil five minutes 
have passed. It is then safe to raise the cover and take 
out one dumpling to test, without danger of making the 
others heavy. 



Meats 185 

To test the dumpling tear it apart with two forks. If it 
has a light, spon^ texture with no dough spot in the center, 
it is done and the rest shotild be removed at onoe. 

Smoked Tongue 

Put a smoked tongue to soak in cold water over night; 
change the water once. In the morning put it on in cold 
water and throw in a bunch of sweet herbs. Boil evenly 
four to four and a half hours, or tmtil tender, then drain 
and skin and trim it for table use. If it is to be served 
hot it may be sliced and the slices placed on panned spinach. 

Baked Heart 

Put a beef heart to soak in warm water for two hours. 
Wipe it dry and after cutting open the lobes stuff the heart 
with savory forcemeat, tie the heart with kitchen tape, and 
bake in covered roaster two hours, basting often. Serve 
the dish gravy, slightly thickened, and currant jelly with 
the heart. 

Hambuig Steak 

Take a pound and a half of round steak and run it twice 
through the meat chopper and add to it two grated onions, 
a half teaspoon of salt and a saltspoon of pepper, and a 
tablespoon of finely chopped suet. Form into cakes or 
pats and broil over a good fire. Serve on a hot dish with a 
little lump of butter on top of each. 

Beef Croquettes 

Chop very fine the left-over ends of steak or roast beef, 
add to it a grated onion, a tablespoon of finely chopped 
celery, a half cup of bread crumbs, one beaten egg^ a half 
teaspoon of salt and a saltspoon of pepper, two tablespoons 
of ketchup, one of Worcestershire sauce, and just enough 
stock to enable the mixture to be molded into croquettes. 



1 86 Meats 

Roll in egg and crumbs and fry in hot fat. Drain and 
serve with broiled potatoes and garnish with parsley 

Tdpe 

Fine grain or honeycomb tripe may be washed, dried, 
and broiled on a buttered gridiron, fried in butter, stewed in 
cream or in a brown mushroom sauce, or cooked in casserole. 
If liked it is easily digested and nourishing. To cook it in a 
casserole cut it in pieces, add to it a cup of potato balls 
cut with the cutter, a sliced onion, a diced carrot, and a 
half cup of peas. Put in dish with a cup of brown sauce, 
half gill of butter, a quarter saltspoon of pepper, and a 
saltspoon of salt. Serve boiled rice with the tripe. 

Liver 

Beef liver is occasionally used by being boiled, then 
chopped fine and made into croquettes highly seasoned. 
But calf's liver is preferred. 

Swiss Steak 

Take a piece of top round steak, dust it with pepper, salt, 
and paprika, dredge it on both sides with flour, then put it 
into a hot frying pan with enough hot fat in it to cover the 
bottom. Cover the pan and let the steak cook. When 
done through, pour over it a cup of thin tomato sauce, add 
the juice of an onion and a half bud of garlic. Cover and 
simmer gently for half an hour. Serve with the gravy 
turned over it, on a hot platter, with a border of mashed 
potato around the edge. 

Beefsteak Pie 

Cut three pounds of rump steak into small pieces two 
inches square. Arrange in layers with seasoning, salt, 
pepper, thin slices of carrot, butter, and the juice of an 



Meats 187 

onion. Half fill the pie with water and cross two thin 
slices of bacon on top. Leave a hole in the crust and bake 
one and a half hours. 

Cooking and Serving of Steak 

Almost everyone likes and eats steak if it is properly 
cooked and invitingly served. As to the choicest cuts, that 
depends on the amount one uses, the price per pound one 
feels ready to pay, and the size and location of the butcher 
shop from which it is purchased. The small shops do not 
carry all that the big markets do nor can they seU at their 
prices. 

There are two positive points to observe in the production 
of a successful steak dish; first, the steak must be the best 
of its kind, and second, the bed of coals must be perfect 
for its broiling. If gas has to be used, then the flames must 
be regulated carefully and the broiler hot before the steak 
goes in, the range door must be left open during the broiling, 
and the steak must not be near enough to the flame to catch 
fire. When the steak is to be served plain, take it from 
the broiler, place it on a hot platter, add pepper, salt, and a 
generous amoimt of good butter. If broiled by gas tmder 
or over the flame, then turn the juice caught in the drip 
cup or pan over the meat also, and garnish with parsley. 

The so-called "three minute*' steaks are cut from the 
tenderloin about a half inch thick and are broiled three 
minutes over a perfect fire, then are buttered and seasoned, 
garnished with fresh cress^ and sent to table on a very hot 
covered platter. 

For the favorite "planked steak" the hardwood plank 
must be heated as hot as possible before the steak is put 
onto it. When it is done, the mac^doine vegetables may be 
arranged arotmd it, the mashed potato put through a rose 
tube in the pastry bag and laid on the edge, then the plank 
should be placed in a hot oven to brown the potato. Serve 
on the plank at once. No extra garnish is required for 
this dish. 



1 88 Meats 

There are several ways of cooking a steak in onions; this 
perhaps is one of the best. Pare and slice thin the desired 
amount of onions. Melt a generous lump of butter in the 
flying pan and when hot put in the onions, cover, and when 
they begin to cook shake them often so they do not bum. 
Add pepper, salt, and a teaspoon of sugar; when they begin 
to brown lay your steak on top, cover, and shake gently 
but continually, turn the steak in five minutes, butter and 
sprinkle with a little pepper and salt, then cover again and 
cook another five minutes or less according to the thickness 
of the steak. Turn right over onto a hot platter with the 
onions on top and garnish with toast sippets and parsley. 
"Hamburg" steak is cooked in the same way, only it does 
not require turning, as it cooks through quicker on accotmt 
of having been chopped. 

"Steak with oysters" is a favorite dish in many localities 
and is good if carefully prepared. Broil the steak in the 
usual way, but do not season it. Place it on a hot platter 
that will stand the oven. Have ready one quart of oysters 
carefully wiped and all pieces of shell removed, cover the 
steak with the oysters, dot the top with plenty of little 
lumps of butter, salt and pepper, and put it into a hot oven, 
letting it stay until the edges of the oysters curl. Then 
serve at once, garnishing with toast sippets and parsley. 

Steak k la Creole 

Select a nice thick porterhouse steak to broil ; fry in butter 
enough thinly sliced Spanish onions to spread a layer over 
the steak after it has been broiled. Take a cup and a half 
of strained tomato juice, add one tablespoon of Worcester- 
shire sauce, a tablespoon of chutney syrup, pepper, salt, 
and two tablespoons of finely minced cold boiled ham and a 
tablespoon of butter. Put into a saucepan and when it 
has cooked two or three minutes thicken it with cornstarch 
to the consistency of heavy cream. Put the broiled steak 
onto a hot platter, spread the onions over the top, then 



Meats 189 

pour over it the sauce; garnish with sprays of watercress 
and stuffed baked red peppers. 

Steak en Casserole 

Cut two pounds of tender round steak into two-incfa- 
square pieces. Butter a casserole dish and lay in the 
center a layer of the steak dusted with flour, then a layer of 
thickly sliced potato dusted with pepper and salt, then the 
meat, and so on until the meat is all in; then turn over it a 
gill of melted butter and a teaspoon of chopped parsley. 
At the side of the meat place a can of French peas that have 
been drained, on the other side some little silver-skinned 
onions; add a cup and a half of rich red stock and after 
covering the dish place it in the oven to cook. The length 
of time it takes to cook must be judged by the oven, but 
usually from one hour to one and a half is sufficient. 

Steak with Mushrooms 

For this dish the steak is broiled in the usual way and 
put on a hot platter ready for the sauce. To make the 
sauce, saut^, after draining, one can of button mushrooms; 
have ready two cups of English brown sauce well seasoned, 
add the mushrooms to it, and when the steak is ready turn 
the sauce over it. If fresh mushrooms are to be had, fry 
them in butter, add pepper, salt, and the juice of an onion 
to them, and turn them over the steak. 

Hungarian Goulash 

Select a small shoulder of beef and have it cut into inch 
squares, add to It one quarter of the amount of chopped 
onions, season with a level tablespoon of salt, a teaspoon of 
pepper, and a saltspoon of Hungarian paprika; mix well, 
cover the saucepan and set it in the oven. When done 
tender add three cups of raw, diced potatoes; continue 
cooking and when the potatoes are done the goulash is 



190 Meats 

ready to serve. No water is added as the jttice of the 
meat makes sufficient sauce. This should serve ten people. 

VBAL 

The carcass of the calf usually comes to market with 
the skin on, the pluck left in, the head and feet removed. 
When ready to use it is skinned and divided into quarters. 
The leg is cut off just below the hip joint for roasting pur- 
poses. Cutlets are taken from the end of the leg or a thick 
piece may be taken instead for a filet. The knuckle left 
after the leg is cut up is used for white soup stock. The 
rump piece is known as the pin bone roast, though in many 
instances it is cut into chops, a matter the butcher decides 
with regard to his particular trade. The shoulder is excel- 
lent boned and roasted, the blades and small bones going 
into the stock pot. The neck rack is good for stewing meat. 
The calf's Uver is the most delicate in market, especially 
if it is from a milk-fed calf, and contains the least amount 
of uric acid. The sweetbreads are another delicacy from 
the calf, and those considered the finest are the so-called 
round heart breads, the thtoat breads being longer, thinner, 
and having more fibrous waste. They are the thjrmus 
and thyroid glands; the pancreas or stomach breads are 
seldom used but are really the true sweetbreads. The law is 
strict regarding the selling of veal and only that from a calf 
around five weeks' old is permitted, that under three weeks 
being known as "bob" veal, and it is against the law to 
have it on sale. 

Roast Filet of Veal 

Select a nice filet of veal the size required, have the bone 
removed, raise the skin from the meat, and put under the 
flap a nice savory forcemeat. Skewer and bind the veal 
in a round form, dust lightly with a little pepper and salt, 
and dredge with a little flour. Place it in a roasting pan 
and cook. A six-pound filet will take about two hours to 



Meats 191 

cook. Baste often and dish the filet, turning over the top 
a half gill of melted butter. Garnish with fresh cress and 
lemon quarters, and place a little cold boiled sliced ham on 
either side of the platter. 

Veal Cutlets 

Veal cutlets may be delicately broiled and served dressed 
with butter, pepper, and salt ; or they may be fried and 
served with any sauce that is liked ; or they may be spread 
thinly with a savory dressing, rolled, dusted with pepper 
and salt, placed in a roasting pan with a cup of rich stock, 
and roasted for thtee quarters of an hour in a medium 
oven, or longer if the meat does not seem done. The 
gravy may be thickened and seasoned to taste with a half 
cup of mtishrooms, that have been saut6d in butter, added. 

Boiled Calf 8 Head 

Have the head split and thoroughly cleaned. Remove 
the brains and place them, with the head, in warm water to 
blanch for one hour. Remove the head and put it in a 
stewpan with sufficient cold water to cover it. When it 
begins to boil add a teaspoon of salt. Add to the water 
the juice of an onion, or a bud of garlic, six raisins, a bay 
leaf, a blade of mace, and a stalk of celery. Let cook until 
the head is perfectly tender. Boil the brains for thirty 
minutes, drain, and chop them fine; add to them a half 
gill of melted butter, a teaspoon of chopped parsley, a 
saltspoon of pepper, and a half teaspoon of salt. Take 
up the head, skin the tongue and place it in the center of 
the platter, turn over it the brain sauce. Remove the 
meat in large pieces from the head, lay the pieces around 
the platter, placing a piece of fried bacon on top of each. 

Calf 8 Liver 

Calf's liver may be sliced, washed, dried, and broiled on 
a well greased gridiron, then dressed with pepper, salt, and 



192 Meats 

butter; it may be fried with bacon, or it may be smothered 
in a brown sauce with fine herbs. Again, it may be 
boiled until tender, then chopped very fine, and be sea- 
soned with a tablespoon of melted butter, a saltspoon of 
pepper, and a half teaspoon of salt; served on slices of 
toast with a teaspoon of currant jelly on top of each 
portion. 

Sweetbreads 

In nearly all ways of cooking sweetbreads they are al- 
lowed to stand in warm water for a few minutes to draw out 
the blood and to improve their color; they are then plunged 
into slightly salted boiling water and allowed to boil evenly 
for fifteen minutes, then drained and set aside to cool. They 
may then be broiled after brushing over with butter; or 
they may be fried delicately and served garnished with 
toast sippets and parsley; or may be put into a Newburg 
sauce, or any of the other fancy sauces desired. They also 
combine well in a great many of the so-called made dishes, 
and are used in salads. 

Veal and Ham Pie 

Cut two pounds of veal cutlet into small pieces and put a 
layer in the bottom of the dish. Sprinkle over them a 
mixture of pepper, salt, a dash of nutmeg, two tablespoons 
of savory herbs, a strip of lemon peel finely chopped, and the 
yolks of two hard boiled eggs. Cut two potmds of boiled 
ham very fine and add in alternate layers until the dish is 
full, the top layer to be of ham. Add a half pint of water 
and the top crust and bake in a fair oven from one to one 
and a half hours. When it is removed from the oven pour 
in through a funnel at the top a pint of rich hot stock 
sufficiently rich to jell when it is cold. This pie may be 
made even more toothsome by the addition of mushrooms, 
sweetbreads, and oysters. 



Meats 193 

Hood of Tripe Roasted 

The hood can only be gotten from a butcher who makes 
a specialty of tripe. Stuff the hood with a good savory 
stuflSng, fold the curtain of the hood over the top, and sew 
up the opening. Roast one hour in a roasting pan that is 
covered, basting with well seasoned white stock. Remove 
the cover, brown the roast, and season and thicken the dish 
gravy and pour over it. Garnish with fried sliced apple 
and toast sippets. 

Pdlish Chops 

It is seldom that we meet with recipes from Poland, but 
like all other nations the Poles have their favorite dishes 
and this is one of the imusual ones. Select as many loin 
veal chops as are needed to serve one to a portion. Fry 
them quickly in fat in a hot frying pan. When done 
remove and drain. Have ready two onions chopped fine 
with a tablespoon of parsley, and a quarter of a pound of 
calf's liver chopped with four slices of bacon; mix all to- 
gether; season, adding a little dusting of sweet herbs, and 
spread one side of the chops with the mixture. Dot each 
with little limips of butter, put them in a buttered baking 
pan, and turn around them a cup of heavy stock. Let them 
cook in the oven until the dressing mixture is done, basting 
often. Remove to a hot platter and turn the gravy over 
them. 

Boiled Tongue 

Soak the tongue over night and boil for four hours. 
When slightly cool skin and trim and it is ready for u-se. 
To serve with the cold boiled tongue, which is thinly sliced 
or served whole in aspic and then carved at table, the 
Violette mustard which comes all prepared will be found 
delicious. 

13 



194 Meats' 

Egyptian Meat Pie 

Line^a'deep pie dish with good crust. Chop fairly fine a 
half pound of calf's liver and a half pound of fresh pork. 
Add a half can of mushrooms, cut in pieces, one grated 
onion, and a chopped pepper. Fill the pie and pour over 
all a half gill of melted butter, a tablespoon of chutney 
syrup, one tablespoon of tomato ketchup, and, over the top, 
a very light dredging of flour. Put on the top crust and 
bake from thirty to forty minutes in a meditmi oven. 

Calf s Liver Larded and Roasted 

Take a fresh milk liver and lard it with fat bacon. Put 
it into a pickle of vinegar, sliced onion, thyme, parsley, 
bay leaf, half a bud of garlic, salt, and pepper. Let it 
stand for twenty-four hours, drain, and place in buttered 
roasting pan. Baste frequently with the strained pickle 
juice. When done place on platter and cover with sauce 
piquante, made as follows: Put into a saucepan two otmces 
of butter, a sliced carrot, and six sliced shalots. Add a 
bunch of savory herbs, half a bay leaf, pepper, salt, and 
a thin slice of lean ham. Let sinmier tmtil they form a 
brown glaze, then add four tablespoons of vinegar and 
half a pint of good stock, with a lump of sugar. Simmer 
gently for half an hour, skim off fat, strain, and when very 
hot serve with the liver. Garnish with sliced lemon and 
fried parsley. 

Bulgarian Chops 

Select good-sized veal chops, season them with pepper 
and salt, and fry them quickly (but not hard) on both sides. 
Remove from the pan, lay them in a buttered baking pan, 
and sprinkle over them this mixture: One onion, one 
pepper, two slices of bacon, and a half pound of boiled 
tongue, all chopped fine; turn over all, a cup of stock and 
sprinkle with a little chopped parsley. Cook in the oven, 



Meats 195 

basting often with the dish gravy. Serve on a hot platter, 
with a border of boiled rice, and turn the gravy over the rice. 

Miishxooms and Sweetbreads 

Line a deep pie dish with a good puff paste. Parboil, 
trim, and dice one pair of sweetbreads, make a rich cream 
sauce, not too thick, put in the sweetbreads; then slice one 
cold boiled egg and four truffles, adding the juice of an 
onion and a tablespoon of mushroom ketchup. While 
this is cooling prepare a half potmd of mushrooms, leaving 
the flaps whole and washing and slicing the stems thin. 
Turn the mixture into the pie crust, not using too much of 
the cream; dip the mushrooms in melted butter, pepper, and 
salt and pack them in, using quite a number, as they shrink. 
Add the rest of the sauce if there is room, put on the upper 
crust, and bake like any ordinary pie. Serve hot with any 
roast meat dish, cutting in strips and squares rather than in 
wedge-shaped pieces like a dessert pie. 

Cutlet en Casserole 

Take a medium cutlet, cut with a sharp knife into three- 
inch squares, and place them in a casserole dish. Cut 
with a scoop small round potato, carrot, and parsnip balls, a 
cup and a half in all, and pare a cup of button onions; add 
these to the cutlet with one cup of red stock, pepper, salt, a 
dash of mignonette pepper, and a tablespoon of Worcester- 
shire sauce. Take one tablespoon of rice flour and mix it 
smooth with a little water and add to the gravy, putting in 
last a half gill of melted butter. Cook in a medium oven 
an hour to an hour and a half, or until the meat is done. 

JeUied calf s Head 

Boil a calf's head, after having removed the brains for 
use in fritters and the tongue to boil; dice and serve the 
tongue in tomato dressing for a luncheon dish, and add 
a bimch of herbs, two onions, a carrot, parsley, a strip of 



y 



196 Meats 

lemon peel, pepper, and salt to flavor the same; the head 
boil until the meat pulls from the bones; then take the 
meat and let the rest boil down a third; add a wine- 
glass of sherry and a teaspoon of gelatine dissolved in 
a little cold water; strain and add to the mold, where the 
meat has been cut in pieces, cold boiled egg sliced through 
it, and several olives cut from the stones in curls; fill the 
mold and stand away to cool and harden; serve garnished 
with white lettuce leaves and tartare sauce. 

Veal Croquettes 

Mince the veal that is to be used very fine. Mix half a 
cup of milk with one teaspoon of flour, a piece of butter 
the size of an egg; cook until it thickens, then add the meat 
to it and roll into balls. Dip them in a beaten egg with a 
little milk stirred in, roll them in browned bread crumbs, and 
fry in hot lard. Drain on blotting paper and serve gar- 
nished with parsley. 

MUTTON AND LAMB 

Mutton and lamb come to our city markets dressed much 
the same way as beef — the carcass is divided into sides by 
splitting down the backbone, after the ** haslet" has been 
removed. The fore and hind quarters are then divided 
just behind the ribs. The cuts of mutton and lamb are just 
the same, the leg, the loin, the rack, consisting of the ribs 
behind the shoulder, the fore quarter or chuck which con- 
tains four ribs and the breast. The hind quarters of both 
mutton and lamb are used for roasting as are the fore 
quarters, especially those of so-called spring lamb. The 
leg cut just before the hip bone is used in lamb for roasting, 
and in mutton for boiling and is often stuffed for roasting 
after the bone has been removed. In selecting the lamb 
chops those designated as French chops are most delicate 
and costly. Loin chops are cheaper, are subject to less 
waste, are tender, and of just as good flavor. Shoulder 



Meats 197 

chops are to be had occasionally when the butcher has not 
been able to sell the shotdder and meat ttnder it for a roast 
but as he usually does they are not to be had often. These 
chops are known as round bone and blade chops, the former 
being usually the most tender. The breast and flank of 
mutton are used for stew, and the breast of lamb for stewing 
and braising. The necks of both mutton and lamb are 
used for stews and broths. When a saddle of mutton is 
required it must be taken from a carcass that has not been 
split down the back and usually it means a special order. 

Boiled Leg of Mutton 

Select a good, heavy leg of mutton, have the butcher cut 
and scrape back the meat about four inches from the shank 
end and skewer it in place ; he is also to joint and take out the 
end bone — ^this leaves a more compact leg, better for carv- 
ing. Wash and wipe the joint and plunge it into boiling 
water enough to cover it, let it boil rapidly for five minutes, 
then draw it back and let it cook evenly from two to three 
hours according to the size of the joint. Skim the water and 
add after it has cooked two hours a teaspoon of salt, a salt- 
spoon of pepper, a half teaspoon of celery salt, and the juice 
of an onion. When done serve garnished with parsley, and 
have a good caper sauce in the sauce-boat. 

When the leg is stuffed and roasted, after the bone is 
taken out, the stuflBng to use is a savory forcemeat stuffing 
made of a pint of bread crumbs, one grated onion, a salt- 
spoon of pepper, a tablespoon of chopped tarragon leaves, a 
level teaspoon of salt, a half cup of pecan nuts ground, a 
tablespoon of minced celery, and a heaping tablespoon of 
melted butter; if the dressing seems a little dry a half gill of 
cream may be added. 

Mutton Pie 

Take the remains of a cold leg of mutton and cut the 
meat into thin slices or small pieces. Line a pie dish with 



198 Meats 

the crust, place a layer of the meat in the bottom, a layer 
of potatoes cut rather thick or in balls on top of the meat, 
little lumps of butter, a saltspoon of pepper and a half 
teaspoon of salt, a teaspoon of onion juice, a teaspoon of 
powdered herbs, and then put on another layer of the meat. 
Keep on in this way until the dish is full; then pour in a 
small cup of cream in which a teaspoon of browned flour 
has been stirred until smooth and free from lumps; then put 
on the upper crust. Bake about an hour. This pie is 
good hot or cold. 

Dormers 

Chop half a pound of cold mutton, two ounces of fresh 
beef suet, and three ounces of cold boiled rice together 
finely; add a high seasoning of pepper and salt and roll into 
little sausages. A little bunch of savory herbs adds greatly 
to the flavor. Dip them in egg, roll them in fine crumbs, 
and fry a delicate brown in hot fat. Serve with an English 
brown sauce poured over them. These make a good lunch- 
eon dish or entree. They may be garnished with toasted 
mushroom flaps in season, or served with stuffed baked 
peppers. 

Italian Cutlets 

Take three pounds of the neck of mutton, cut the meat 
into nicely shaped cutlets, flatten them and cut off some of 
the fat, dip them in melted butter, then in the beaten yolk 
of an egg. Mix well together four tablespoons of bread 
crumbs, one tablespoon of savory herbs, one tablespoon 
of minced parsley, one teaspoon of minced shalot, one salt- 
spoon of finely chopped lemon peel, salt, and pepper, and 
roll the cutlets in the ingredients. Pry them a delicate 
brown in hot fat. Remove from the pan, then dredge into 
the grease they have been fried in a little flour, and when it 
begins to brown pour in a cupful of hot stock; add a table- 
spoon of chutney, two teaspoons of tarragon vinegar, a 



Meats 199 

wineglass of port; then allow it to boil up, stirring it 
smooth. If the gravy should not be thick enough add a 
little bit more flour; then pour arotmd the cutlets. Garnish 
with fried red peppers and cress. 

Irish Stew 

Have three potmds of the loin of mutton cut into pieces of 
stewing size, put them in a saucepan with four thinly sliced 
onions, two diced carrots, and a quart of water. Cook 
gently one hour, then add salt and pepper to taste, eight 
good-sized potatoes cut in thick slices, and cook gently an- 
other hour. Then make quick dumplings, drop in on the 
top, and cook for fifteen minutes more tightly covered. Lift 
the stew and if the gravy is too thin thicken it slightly and 
pour over the stew. 

Mutton Pie 

Take two pounds of loin of mutton, cut it into small 
pieces, cut two kidneys in small pieces, grate one large 
onion, and chop fine a teaspoon of parsley. Place all in a 
buttered pudding dish and add two large cups of brown 
sauce, well seasoned. Cover the top with a good pie crust 
and bake for an hour and a half in a steady oven. 

English Mutton Chops 

The English chop is cut from two to two and a half inches 
thick and it takes from fifteen to eighteen minutes to broil. 
The ordinary chop is from half to three quarters of an inch 
thick and can be broiled in ten or twelve minutes. 

Trotters 

The trotters come to market all prepared in bundles. 
Wash them and place them in a saucepan with boiling water. 
Cook gently for two hours, or until the bones can be pulled 
loose. Remove from the fire and when slightly cool remove 



200 Meat8 

the bones. Escallop the meat in a baking dish, using layers 
of bread crumbs dusted with pepper and salt, a little chopped 
parsley, two grated onions, and one cup of tomato juice. 
Dot the top with little limips of butter, and bake three 
quarters of an hour to an hour, according to the heat of the 
oven. 

The trotters may also have the meat removed from the 
bones and, after being well seasoned, have the water they 
were cooked in boiled down to one half with a teaspoon of 
gelatine powder added, and be molded and jelled. When 
ready to serve lay a slice on a lettuce leaf with a tablespoon 
of asparagus tips on top and the whole heaped with mayon- 
naise. This makes a very nice warm day Itmcheon dish. 

Lamb 

In roasting a leg of spring lamb, weighing five potmds, it 
will take one hour and a half in a steady oven, and it will 
make a sufficient meal for five persons. Real spring lamb 
first comes to market at Easter time. 

Stuffed Shoulder of Lamb 

Have the blade bone removed from as large a shoulder of 
lamb as the market affords and stuff the meat with a savory 
stuffing, sewing up the slit with a coarse thread. Lay in a 
stewpan four slices of bacon, then lay in the lamb, and add 
two grated onions, a half stalk of chopped celery, a small 
bimch of savory herbs, and one quart of white stock. Stew 
evenly and gently for two hours. Then lift the meat, lay 
it on a hot platter, and reduce, by boiling, the gravy to one 
half the quantity; thicken it slightly with browned flour 
and turn over the meat. Serve mashed potato, peas, or 
stewed cucumbers with the lamb. 

Lamb Sweetbreads 

Soak a pair of sweetbreads in lukewarm water, then place 
them in a saucepan with sufficient boiling water to cover 



Meats 201 

them and simmer for ten minutes. Take them out and 
place them in cold water; next lard them and place in a ' 
stewpan, adding a sprinkling of pepper and salt, a small 
bunch of green onions, sliced fine, a blade of mace, a half 
pint of white stock, and a thickening of a little butter and 
flour rubbed to a cream; stew all gently for twenty minutes. 
Beat two eggs with a half pint of cream to which add a little 
minced parsley and a slight grating of nutmeg. Add this 
to the other ingredients, but do not allow the mixture to 
boil after adding for it will curdle. Have some asparagus* 
tips, that have been boiled in fair water, ready drained and 
lay them around the dish as an edible garnish. 

Lamb Fries 

Take one pound of lamb fries and boil in three pints of 
water for twenty minutes, drain and dry them on a cloth, 
dip lightly in egg and roll in very fine bread crumbs to 
which have been added a saltspoon of pepper, a half tea- 
spoon of salt, and a teaspoon of chopped tarragon leaves. 
Fry in hot fat a delicate brown. Serve in a napkin and 
garnish with fresh, crisp watercress. 

Crown, or Rack Roast 

This roast is composed of the rack of mutton. The upper 
portions of the bones are frenched; the roast is then folded 
inside out and skewered or tied in place. Cover the tops of 
the bones with a little oiled paper so they do not burn. 
Place the roast in a baking-pan, turning into the pan a small 
cup of water in which a half teaspoon of salt and a saltspoon 
of pepper have been mixed. Roast in a quick oven for 
about three quarters of an hour, basting often. Have ready 
a dish of light creamy mashed potatoes, and just before the 
roast is done draw it from the oven, remove the papers 
from the bones, fill the pot with the mashed potato, and put 
it back in the oven just long enough to brown the potato on 
top. Remove from the oven, put little white quilled paper 



202 Meats 

caps on top of each bone, and garnish the roast with little 
heaps of green peas alternated with fried slices of tomato. 

PORK 

Setting aside the fact of his unattractive habits there is no 
domestic animal so useful or profitable to man as the much 
maligned pig, or any that yields a more luxurious or varied 
repast. Those raised for market have come in recent years 
under such strict board of health laws that they do not 
fall heir to the many diseases that formerly made them 
dangerous eating. Where pork is objected to there 
are many other fats to take its place, such as nuts, olive 
oil, butter, and cream, but none can offer to the epicure 
the delightfully toothsome flavor that the pork possesses. 
The ham is trimmed to the rounded piece familiar to us in 
the market, and may be used fresh, corned, or smoked, the 
latter being the most popular way in use. The boned 
shoulder is called a "neck sparerib, ** and is a roasting 
piece. A heavy shoulder cut short is known in some locali- 
ties as a picnic ham; it is not a ham, though the meat is of 
good flavor, and there is a good deal of bone waste to it. 
The true loin consists of from nine to twelve ribs with part 
of the hip at one end and part of the shoulder at the other. 
The loin is used for roasting whole or for chops. 

Pork tenderloin corresponds to that in the beef, and 
laying imder the loin is generally sold with that roast, but 
is occasionally taken out for broiling or frying. The large 
packing houses, however, furnish the tenderloins in bulk, 
packed for our markets, and they have become, during 
their season (winter months), a butchers' staple. 

The belly may be corned but it is generally smoked for 
bacon ; when the ribs are removed it is called boneless bacon ; 
when the side is divided lengthways into inside and outside 
strips, one being fat and the other lean, the latter is known 
in some localities as clear-sides, while the former is the fat 
bacon, or larding or pickled pork. 



Meats 203 

Boiled Ham 

Choose a short, thick, heavy, sugar-cured ham, place it in 
a ham pot with enough cold water to cover it, bring it 
gradually to boiling point, and after it has boiled for a half 
hour have ready a kettle of boiling water and throw ofE the 
first water, adding the fresh. Then let it boil evenly until 
done. A ten-potmd ham will take four hours. When the 
ham is done remove it from the fire and let it stand in the 
water tmtil the water is cool enough to have stopped steam* 
ing. Remove the ham, skin and trim it, dredge the top 
with a little bit of brown sugar, put a paper frill around the 
bone, and send to table gamished^with watercress. 

If the ham is to be served cold then it may remain in the 
water until it is quite cool; cooling it in this way the juices 
are kept in and make the meat more tasty. 

If the ham is to be baked then remove it from the boiling 
water when done, trim and skin it, and after skinning 
sprinkle the fat on top with sugar; stick it thickly with 
cloves, dust lightly with a little mignonette pepper, place it 
in a baking pan with a half cup of the water it was boiled 
in, mixed with a quarter of a cup of honey. Bake for 
about jan hour, basting very often. The last half hour 
have ready some boiled sweet potatoes, cut them in half, 
lay them in the baking pan with the ham, let them brown 
lightly, and serve as a gstmish with the meat. This is a 
southern way of cooking ham. 

Baked Smoked Ham 

Soak a twelve pound ham over night and in the morn- 
ing wipe it thoroughly dry, trim it and cover it entirely in 
a common biscuit crust. Be sure the crust is even in 
thickness so it will keep the juices in. Place in the oven 
and bake four hours, then break off the crust, skin and trim 
the ham. Sprinkle it thickly with brown sugar, stick it 
with cloves and put it into the oven for a long enough time 
to melt the sugar. This may be eaten hot or cold. This 



204 Meats 

method of cooking makes the ham more juicy and it will 
keep longer after it has been cooked. 

Baked Ftesh Ham 

Select a short thick fresh ham and have the butcher bone 
it. Prepare a savory stufl&ng and after stuflSng it place it in 
a baking pan, dust it with pepper and salt, and place in the 
pan a cup of white wine, the juice of half a lemon, the 
juice of an onion, a teaspoon of celery, and the same amount 
of tarragon leaves chopped fine. Baste very freely and 
bake two and a half to three hours. Strain the dish gravy, 
add to it a half cup of white stock, and thicken it with 
browned flour and butter rubbed to a cream. 

Fried Ham 

Sliced ham for frying should be cut about a half inch thick. 
If the ham is salty then put it in a frying pan with cold 
water and let it come to boiling point, then throw off the 
water and fry the ham. The ham is generally accompanied 
with fried eggs. For broiling the ham is cut a trifle thinner 
than for frying. 

Roast Pork 

Select a loin of pork weighing six or seven pounds and 
containing the tenderloin, have the butcher score it, and 
place it in the roasting-pan, dusting lightly with a little 
pepper and salt, or turning over it a quarter of a cup of 
honey mixed with a half cup of boiling water. If the 
pork is very lean it should be rubbed over with olive oil 
before roasting, but its own fat is usually sufficient. Baste 
it often. A six- or seven-pound loin should roast from two 
and a half to two and three quarter hours. 

Pork Pie 

Have three pounds of shoulder of pork, or neck, cut into 
small squares and place them in a stewpan, covering with a 



Meats 205 

* 

grated onion, a dusting of pepper and salt, and enough 
water to cover them. Stew gently until the meat is tender. 
When done place it in a pudding dish with a cup of diced 
potato, and a half cup of diced carrot. Boil down the meat 
gravy to one half, season it well, and turn over the meat. 
Have ready a good pastry pie crust and cover the pie with it. 
Bake in the oven one hour and serve hot or cold. 

Roast Pig 

The pig for roasting comes all prepared to the butcher 
and it will be thoroughly cleaned by him all ready for the 
cook to handle, though she must be careful to see that the 
ears and nostrils are thoroughly cleansed. After stuflBng 
the pig with a good sage and onion dressing then sew up the 
slit neatly and truss the legs wide apart so that they roast 
thoroughly. Put the pig in a roasting pan, baste well and 
often every part of the pig during the roasting process. It 
will take about two hours to roast a small pig but it will be 
suflScient to serve about ten people. A tureen of the dish 
gravy thickened and a dish of apple sauce are usually served 
with the pig. 

Pig's Feet 

Pig's feet may be had in the market frenched with the 
large bones taken out, ready for broiling; they also come 
ready pickled, soused, or cleaned, ready for boiling at home. 

Sausage Meat 

Hardly anyone in these modern days attempts to make 
sausage meat at home, unless on a large farm. Head 
cheese and scrapple, and 'the other pork-made prod- 
ucts, all come so perfectly prepared that it is a useless 
waste of time and energy to make them at home. 

Lard 

Home-made lard is undoubtedly the finest cooking fat 
there is, though many of the new vegetable cooking fats 



2o6 Meats 

are crowding it into the background. Leaf lard has ad* 
vanced in price with other commodities, until home-made 
lard is getting to be almost a luxury. To make it, however, 
take seven pounds of leaf lard, cut it up into small pieces, 
and put them into a porcelain-lined kettle with a cup of 
water, which keeps it from btuning until it begins to melt. 
Melt it down very slowly. When each piece has com- 
menced to shrink and there appears to be half the solid 
quantity in the pot strain off the first pail of lard. Continue 
cooking imtil the solid quantity is again reduced to one 
half, then strain off another pail of lard; and so on until 
nothing remains but the cracklings. When the cracklings 
are cooked down quite hard strain them off, chop them fine, 
and they may be added to com meal batter and made into 
com bread or muffins. So there is absolutely no waste. 
When the lard is white, set, and cold put a lightly salted 
doth, or a piece of paraffine paper, over the top of each pail 
and store in a cold place. 

Roast Stuffed Tenderloins 

Split two pork tenderloins and cut the ends square so 
that they are the same size. Make a savory dressing and 
add to it the chopped meat ends. Stuff the tenderloins, 
tie firmly, or skewer together. While they roast baste 
them with a little melted butter which has salt, pepper, a 
spoonful of powdered sugar, and four cloves in it. When the 
tenderloins are done place them on a platter and make 
a sauce of the dish gravy by straining and adding to it a 
cup of sweet milk, thickened with a little butter and fiour 
mixed to a paste. Serve in a hot gravy-boat and garnish 
the tenderloins with cress and olive rings. 

Lomo 

Have enough slices of pork, taken from the loin or 
shoulder and sliced thin enough to broil, to allow two to 
a portion* Let them marinate for one hour in vinegar to 



Meats 207 

which has been added a small quantity of pepper and salt 
and a bud of garlic; then drain them, wipe dry, and broil on 
a greased broiler. Serve the slices aroimd a heap of curried 
rice in the center of the platter, making an outer border of 
thick slices of cold boiled potatoes that have been delicately 
broiled. 

Sausage Pasty 

Make a good puff paste, roll out, and cut into pieces four 
inches wide and twice as long. Take six or eight good 
country sausages, remove the meat from the skins, seasoning 
the meat highly and adding a finely chopped pepper, the 
juice of an onion, and a little savory spice. Put a tablespoon 
in each piece of the crust, roll and press the ends together, 
and bake twenty minutes to half an hour in a buttered 
shallow pan. Serve two to a portion on a doily garnished 
with a spray of cress. 

Grilled Ham witibi Bananas 



Cut into thin slices the required amount of raw ham and 
broil delicately. Skin some bananas, cut them in half 
lengthwise, season with salt and pepper, roll in beaten eggs 
and fine bread crumbs, and fry in hot bacon fat. Place the 
ham on a hot platter with a slice of banana on each piece, 
garnish the dish with parsley, and serve. 



POULTRY 

One of the first things for the young housekeeper to learn 
is how to select good poultry, and to leam in the early 
housekeeping days is to save many dollars and spoiled 
meals. There is hardly any food commodity more difficult 
of selection than poultry, unless it is the evasive cantaloupe. 
We are generally led to suppose that poultry is at its natural 
best from October until March, but the incubator and cold- 
storage facilities keep the market supplied with acceptable 
goods the year around. 

Of course the birds that are tmnaturally mothered, fed, 
and fattened may make a fine appearance, but the flavor is 
not up to the real thing, and they invariably weep away 
their unnatural fat in the dipping pan, leaving the meat flat 
and tasteless. A dry-picked chicken, as it is known in 
market lore, is the best to buy, for those that have been 
scalded to be more easily plucked and quickly done are sub- 
jected to a process that is responsible for much of the so- 
called ptomaine poisoning. In the season when the, birds 
are not up to their very best they are called " saggy '* by the 
experienced butchers and potdterers. The real spring 
chicken or broiler is prime in July, August, and September, 
when its weight averages from two to four potmds. Age in 
the barnyard fowls makes such a transformation that the 
spring cock is at one yeai* old only flt for the soup pot or to 
make jelly of, while the hen of the same age is still tenderly 
inclined toward the insinuations of the carving knife; that 

is, if :t is good and sharp. 

208 



Poultry ^09 

How to Stuff Fowl 

In stufiSng a chicken it should not be filled to bursting 
point, as the dressing, if it is mostly of bread, will sw 11, 
and if it bursts through it gives a most untidy appearance 
to the roaster. Chickens split and roasted should be covered 
until ready to brown, as they bum quickly and dry up 
before they are really done inside ; also they require a gener- 
ous amount of butter in the cooking. Chicken should be 
wrapped in clean linen cloths if laid on the ice, and not 
come in contact with anjrthing that might not be absolutely 
dean. Ducks are chosen in the same way as the chickens. 
They are not as economical eating, nor are they as varied 
in daily usefulness, the chicken being by far the best all 
rotmder. 

As regards the toothsome capon chickens, the rule respect- 
ing age does not hold good, for there is rarely a more de- 
licious bird to be enjoyed than a well fed and well dressed 
capon. Age does not dry up the juices, and, like old wine, 
they grow more mellow with age. At three years old even 
they are as tender as chicks with the proper chicken flavor 
fully developed. 

It should be borne in mind as a good rule in choosing 
potdtry that the small-boned and short-legged poultry are 
likely to excel the contrary sort in delicacy of color, flavor, 
and fine texture of their flesh. 

If a chicken is to be used within a few hours of its pur- 
chase, singe it carefully and quickly over a brown-paper- 
flame, or over the gas jet, if not held too close; take out all 
pinfeathers and, making a three-inch slit in the apron, draw 
it, being very careful not to break the little green gall-blad- 
der attached to the liver, as, if broken, it embitters the 
entire flesh and sometimes renders it uneatable. Remove 
the lungs, which ding tightly to the ribs and are often over- 
looked by the careless or inexperienced cook, and cut out 
the oil-bag at the base of the tail that tradition says "goes 
over the fence last"; wipe out the inside with a clean, dry 
14 



' 



2IO Poultrx 

doth and lay on a dean plate next the ice; do not wash 
it until ready for use. Free the liver, gizzard, and heart 
from the intestines, and place with the chicken after deaning 
them. If the chicken is not for inunediate use do not draw 
it, but put it in a dean linen doth and lay it directly on 
the ice. If drawn too long beforehand the meat dries out 
too much, and if the weather is damp it gets "slippery" — 
not an inviting condition — ^and requires a good washing in 
cold water to which a trifle of baking-soda has been added 
to render it wholesome again. 

The real chicken season is from early fall to late spring. 
In very early summer capons for roasting and chickens for 
f ricasseeing are all the market affords outside of cold-stor- 
age birds. A chicken is a fowl tmder two years old. A 
pullet is a young hen. Broilers are chickens four or five 
months old. A capon is a castrated cock or spayed hen. 

For boiling, a young fowl may be used, always select- 
ing a chicken that is short and thick and one with a 
deep breast; usually the yellow-skinned chickens are 
the best for this purpose. If the chicken is properly 
cleaned, the leg sinews drawn out, and it is carefully trussed, 
it will boil most satisfactorily and yield a plentiful supply 
of sliced cold meat. Some housewives drop into the water 
in which the chicken is to be boiled a small sliced onion, a 
sprig of celery, a small bunch of savory herbs, a bay leaf, and 
a sliced carrot, so that after the chicken is done and has 
been removed from the water the broth may be strained, 
and when cool the grease removed and seasoned, and then 
set away to jell. The addition to the water of a few extra 
pairs of chicken feet, which the butcher always has on hand, 
will aid the jelling process and will also improve the flavor 
of the broth. 

When selecting a chicken for roasting, procure one that 
weighs not less than four to five pounds, otherwise it will 
not yield suffident meat to pay for the amount of fuel used 
in its cooking and the trouble in making the dressing, trus- 
sing it, and so on. The roasting chicken should be carefully 



Poultry 211 

cleaned, the pinfeathers removed, the neck also, and the 
breast stuffed French fashion. The sinews should be re- 
moved from the legs and it must not be stuffed too full. 

For broiling, the "broilers" are especially appropriate. 
They run from a pound and a half up to two and a half and 
there is no finer chicken than this when it reaches the 
weight of two to two and a half pounds for smothering, 
frying, for fricassee, or to joint for casserole use. 



Maryland Fried Chicken 

Place a chicken after having it carefully jointed and cut 
into pieces in a large f r3ring pan with a heaping tablespoon of 
butter and one of lard and cover almost to the top of the 
pan with cold water. Set on the fire and allow it to cook 
rather slowly for about half an hour, covered tightly. When 
it begins to brown turn the pieces with a fork. Serve on 
a hot platter garnished with toast sippets and parsley. If 
any of the gravy is left in the pan after the chicken has 
been browned, add to it a cupftd of milk in which a little 
cornstarch and fiour has been rubbed smooth, and a little 
cream; stir carefully until the gravy is fairly thick and 
smooth, then serve in a hot tureen to use over the mashed 
potato. 

Chicken k la Mount Venuxn 

Dissolve a tablespoon of plain gelatine in three fourths 
of a cup of hot chicken stock. Beat until frothy and add 
one cup of cream and one and one half cups of cold chicken 
cut into dice. Season with a saltspoon each of salt and 
pepper. Chill thoroughly. Make a sauce by dissolving 
one half tablespoon of gelatine in two tablespoons of 
cold water. Add to it the beaten yolks of two eggs, adding 
salt, a teaspoon each of sugar and mustard, two table- 
spoons of lemon juice, and one half cup of hot milk. Cook 
in double boiler tmtil it thickens. Chill. Pour over 



212 Poxiltry 

chicken, and serve with border of rice. Garnish with 
parsley and tender white stalks of celery. 

Pottlet k la Marengo 

Cut a tender young fowl, after singeing and cleaning 
it, into eight or ten pieces; put them into a dean stewpan 
with four tablespoons of the best olive oil, brown them over 
a moderate fire, and when slightly browned dredge them 
with about a tablespoon of flour. When that is done pour 
in a pint of rich stock and let simmer gently for about half 
an hour, taking off the fat as it rises to the top. Add 
twenty button mushrooms halved, a saltspoon of pepper, 
and a half teaspoon of salt, a teaspoon of sugar, and half a 
bud of garlic. Cook five minutes; then remove the chicken, 
piling it pyramid fashion on the dish. Reduce the sauce by 
boiling it quickly and pour over the fowl. Garnish with 
toast sippets and parsley. 

Fowl Pilaa 

Wash carefully one pound of the best rice, put it in a 
frying pan with two otmces of butter, and cook it over 
a slow fire until it is slightly browned, stirring it constantly. 
Fix the fowl as for boiling, and put it in the stewpan with 
two quarts of good strong stock. Make a spice bag with 
forty cardamon seeds, half an ounce of coriander seeds, and 
a quarter ounce each of cloves, allspice, mace, and half an 
ounce of cinnamon, and a quarter of an ounce of whole 
peppers. Drop the bag in with the chicken and let the 
chicken boil until it is tender; then add the rice and let 
cook until the rice is tender and almost dry. Fry delicately 
six strips of bacon, fry in butter three sliced onions, and have 
ready two eggs hard boiled. Place the fowl in the center 
of the dish, smother it with the rice, garnish with the bacon, 
onions and hard-boiled eggs cut into quarters. Serve very 
hot, removing the spice bag before sending it to table. 



Poultry 213 

Brofled-Chicken 

Select broilers weighing between a pound and a half and 
two pounds each; split them in half and, when broiled, lay 
each half on a toast sippet, garnishing with parsley. A half 
chicken is served to a portion. 

Chicken au Giatin 

Chop the dark meat, add a small grated onion, a tea* 
spoon of finely chopped celery, a tablespoon of bread 
crumbs, seasoning, allowing a generous lump of butter to 
each ramekin of the mixture, with a tablespoon of sherry 
to each, and a light sprinkling of grated cheese over the top. 
Bake a delicate brown in the oven. Serve in the ramekins 
with a tiny dry toast finger at the side. 

Chicken Chop Suey 

This Americanized Chinese dish is not as complicated or 
difficult to make as it would seem when one is eating it; it 
is quite within the possibilities of the home cook. Take the 
boned meat of a plimip chicken with one sliced onion and 
fry it, after seasoning it well, in hot lard; add a cup of finely 
chopped ham, a half cup of finely minced celery, a half cup 
of green beans, a half cup of bamboo sprouts, and a half 
cup of thinly sliced button mushrooms. Add also a half 
cup of rich stock, and a quarter of a cup of Chinese sauce. 
Cover closely and cook tmtil the chicken is tender. 
Thicken the sauce with flour beaten smooth in two table- 
spoons of cream, and add a tablespoon of finely chopped 
parsley. Serve hot with boiled rice, or fried noodles. 

Chicken Shortcake 

This dish must be put together at the last possible mo- 
ment and served immediately. Make a good shortcake 
of biscuit dough. When done split the cake and butter it. 



214 Po\iltry 

Have ready a plate of thinly sliced boiled chicken which 
has been cooled but not iced. Fill the shortcake with the 
chicken and spread thickly with a good mayonnaise, lay 
on the upper half, lightly butter the top, then spread it 
with a small bottle of mac^doine vegetables that have been 
drained, chopped, and marinated in French dressing for one 
hour, then drained again and mixed with mayonnaise. 
Serve the shortcake hot and as quickly as possible after 
laying up. Garnish with sprays of parsley drawn through 
thin slices of lemon. 

Chicken en Casserole 

Prepare and stew one tender jointed chicken tmtil tender 
enough to remove the large bones; spread one cup of fresh 
boiled rice on the bottom of a well buttered casserole, then 
the chicken, then a cup of button mushrooms halved and 
three sliced truffles, a saltspoon of pepper and a half tea- 
spoon of salt, a gill of melted butter, two gills of the water 
in which the chicken was stewed, the juice of an onion, two 
tablespoons of grated English cheese, and a gill of sweet 
cream. Serve with it fresh asparagus with drawn butter 
sauce. 



Chicken 

Clean and joint one four-pound fowl and place it in a 
two-gallon soup kettle with two cleaned and split calf's 
feet. Add one potmd each of washed and cut carrots, leeks, 
and onions, six tomatoes, a bud of garlic, one teaspoon of 
curry powder, saltspoon of salt, and a half saltspoon of 
pepper. Fill the pot with cold water, place it over the fire, 
and after it has boiled five minutes draw it to one side 
and allow it to boil slowly and evenly for three hours. 
Remove from the fire, strain through a coarse sieve, then 
through cheesecloth into wet molds. This shotdd be very 
dear when cold. It may be served in cups like cold con- 
somme or small quantities may be melted, to which vege- 



Poxiltry 215 

table mac^doine or chopped meats may be added, then 
allowed to jell again. The chicken may be taken from the 
bones and chopped for hash or salad. 



Compote 

Dice enough cold boiled chicken to make two pints; 
chop two of the livers with three hard-boiled eggs, and 
dust with pepper, salt, and a little grated nutmeg. Stir 
two tablespoons of flour into a gill of melted butter and add 
a cup of the chicken broth; stir three minutes, then add 
three quarters of a cup of sweet cream. When all is hot, 
add the chicken and simmer for ten minutes. Beat two 
egg yolks with a quarter cup of cream, add it and let all 
cook a minute more; then remove from the fire and add a 
teaspoon of lemon juice and a tablespoon of Worcestershire 
sauce. Serve garnished with toast sippets and parsley. 

Fricassee of Spring Chicken 

This is an excellent cold dish and is easy to prepare. Take 
a spring chicken weighing about a pound and a half and cut 
the legs and breast in two, season with a saltspoon each of 
salt, pepper, and paprika. Spread in a saut^ pan two finely 
sliced onions, a bay leaf, th3nne, parsley, and a little piece 
of celery. Place the chicken on top, dust with a spoonful 
of flour, and cover all with a little of the broth. Cover and 
cook for twenty minutes, then take the cut chicken and 
place it in a deep dish. Put two leaves of gelatine into the 
gravy, then strain and add a little heavy cream to thicken 
it; baste the chicken thoroughly with this thick gravy, then 
allow it to cool, covering it with a thin layer of chicken jelly. 
Decorate with sliced trufBes and sprays of fresh cress. 

Chicken & la King 

Dice enough cold boiled chicken to make two cups. 
Saut^ in a gill of melted butter for five minutes, a cup of 



2i6 Poultry 

button mushrooms, a shredded pepper, six thinly sliced 
truffles, and a tablespoon of Worcestershire sauce and the 
same amotmt of chutney syrup. Then add one grated 
onion, two tablespoons of flour, a cup of milk, salt, pepper, 
and a grating of nutmeg, and the chicken. Bring all to 
boiling point, then thicken with two egg yolks beaten in 
three quarters of a cup of cream and four tablespoons of 
melted butter. More seasoning may be added to taste. 
A tablespoon of sherry improves the flavor. Serve hot 
with toasted cheese sandwiches. 



k la Papigo 

Chicken k la papigo requires one f otir-and-a-half-pound 
frying chicken for three people. Joint, singe, and wash 
carefully, place in a deep fr3ring pan with a tablespoon of 
lard and two tablespoons of butter, cover with cold water, 
set on the stove, and cover closely until it has cooked twenty 
to twenty-five minutes. Remove the cover, sprinkle with 
pepper and salt, and pour off a cup of the liquid, dust very 
lightly with a little flour and brown, transfer to the platter, 
then turn the liquid into the frying pan, adding one onion, 
one pepper which has been chopped and fried delicately 
in butter, and three quarters of a cup of cream. Blend 
together a little butter and flotir and thicken the gravy. 
Pour it over the chicken, garnishing with cress and tri- 
angular toast sippets. 

Chicken Pie 

Joint carefully a fresh, fat chicken, boil it in fair water, 
adding an onion, a btmch of herbs, pepper, and salt, tmtil it 
is very tender. Take from the fire and while hot strip out 
some of the largest bones, and when slightly cool arrange 
in the pastry-lined dish the chicken pieces, add a few slices 
of hard-boiled eggs, and, if they are liked, a few truffles. 
Then strain over it as much of the water the chicken was 



Poultry 217 

boiled in as will fill the pie, put on the crust, leaving the 
opening at the top, and bake it three hotirs, covering the 
crust as befpre so that it does not get too brown. 

Chicken Satisage 

This is an old recipe said to have been popular in 1752. 

Take two spring chickens, weighing two pounds each, and 
chop them fine. Add to them an equal amount of fair pure 
lard and mix thoroughly, adding a cup of fine dry bread 
crumbs, the yolks of three eggs, pepper, salt, a little summer 
savory, sage, and enough sweet milk to bind the mixture 
so that it may be shaped into little sausages. Heat and 
grease the frying pan and fry the sausages in the usual way. 

Broiled Chicken and Jellied Giblets 

Broil the chicken carefully; be generous with the butter 
over it. Lay it on toast, to catch the draining butter, and 
garnish with fresh watercress. The giblets of as many 
chickens as are used may be stewed tightly covered until 
done. Chop fine, add pepper, salt, juice of an onion, 
a teaspoon of Worcestershire sauce, a dash of sugar, and a 
teaspoon of very finely chopped celery. Add this to a 
tomato jelly mixture and let jell in small heart molds. 
Lay the hearts on a bed of cress, to be served with each 
portion of chicken. 

Chicken Liver Saut6 — Chafing Dish 

Cut up twelve chicken or turkey livers, season with salt 
and pepper, and put them into the frying pan with two 
ounces of butter and three oimces of bacon sliced and cut 
into inch lengths. Fry on a quick fire for two or three 
minutes, add half a pint of brown sauce, a little chopped 
tarragon and parsley. Just before removing from the fire 
add a little sherry and a Itmip of fresh butter. 



/ 



2i8 Poultry 

Use of " Left Overs ^* 

What is remaining the second day of any sort of roast 
fowl may be neatly jointed and cut into pieces and steeped 
for an hour in a little vinegar, salt, cayenne pepper, and 
minced onion. Make a batter of one half pound of flour, 
half pint of hot water, two ounces of butter, and the white 
of two eggs; beat the batter well and dip the pieces of fowl 
in it and fry them in very hot lard; pile on a napkin and 
garnish with cress. 

Capon 

The capon is stuffed and prepared the same way as any 
other roasting chicken, and it is rarely served any other 
way, unless it is done in a casserole with sweetbreads 
and mushrooms. 

Turkey 

For roasting a hen turkey is considered the choicest, 
though a young gobbler is also very tasty, while a full grown 
gobbler is only good for boiling. Singe, draw, and remove 
the tendons from the turkey, truss it and stuff it in the 
usual way, then place it in the oven on its breast bone, 
giving it an extra pair of skewer legs to hold it in place. 
As it roasts in this way all of the juices run into the breast 
meat instead of weeping away in the pan, and the last 
minute it may be turned and lightly browned before serv- 
ing. A ten pound turkey will require even roasting for 
two hours and a larger one three hours or longer. When 
the turkey is cooking If it is inclined to brown or bum too 
quickly lay a sheet of asbestos paper over it. All fowls 
should be trussed with asbestos cord for it does not bum in 
the oven. 

What to do With Left-over Turkey 

If the housewife is possessed of patience the most un- 
promising turkey rack may be made to yield dainty surprise 



Poultry 219 

dishes under her careful manipulation the day after Thanks^ 
giving. 

If there is enough meat left to slice nicely it may be thinly 
sliced and covered with a damp linen cloth and placed 
in the ice-box, and it will do for the next dinner. With the 
addition of hot vegetables and a fresh salad the second 
dinner will be almost as good as the first. 

Pick all the meat off from the rack and chop it fine; put 
away half of it with the gravy and dressing for a nice turkey 
hash on toast. 

Take the other half and add a finely chopped onion and a 
little celery, a few fine bread crumbs and seasoning; fill 
half green pepper shells with the mixture and plenty of 
butter, grate a little bit of cheese over the top, and bake a 
delicate brown. The rack may be jointed up and covered 
with one quart of water, one can of tomatoes, and a soup 
bunch. Boil slowly and when done strain and cool. When 
cold remove the grease, heat, season, and when it boils 
add quick little dumplings, finely broken macaroni, or rice. 

Deviled Turkey Legs 

Score drumsticks of turkey to the bone three times. 
Dip them in melted butter, spread with a little French 
mustard mixed with a teaspoon of Worcestershire sauce, 
season with a saltspoon each of salt and pepper and three 
drops of tobasco. Broil seven to ten minutes, basting 
with melted butter and turning frequently. Serve hot. 

Roast Goose 

When choosing a goose see that the skin is white, the feet 
yellow and pliable, and the breast deep and pltmip. When 
cleaned and trussed stuff the goose with a good sage and 
onion stuffing and roast it one and a half to two hours 
according to the size. Another way of cooking goose is to 
stuff it with a chestnut stuffing and boil it until it is tender. 



220 Poviltry 

then put it into the oven long enough to brown it well. 
Serve with a giblet sauce for either dish. 



Roast Goose 



Rub inside of the goose with salt and pepper. Stuff 
with mixture of chopped apples, stoned prunes, cut up, and 
dried bread crumbs. Sew up and put in a very hot oven. 
Pour a cupful of boiling water with level teaspoon of salt 
in pan. Roast until well done, allowing about twenty- 
five minutes for each potmd. Serve with brown giblet 
gravy. 

Ducks 

The best ducks that come to the markets in the vicinity 
of New York are the celery fed Long Island ducks. The 
canvasback ducks are perhaps a little bit finer in flavor 
but are double the price of their Long Island cousins. In 
selecting a duck those that are plump all over will be found 
the best, for those artificially and quickly fattened for 
market will weep away much of the fat in the pan and the 
meat is apt to be greasy and unwholesome. Almost every- 
one has the poulterer draw the ducks for them, but if it is 
left for the cook to do it is a simple matter. Cut off the 
head and with a knife loosen the gullet which takes the 
place of the crop in the chicken. Make a slit in the apron 
below the breast bone and by grasping hold of the gizzard 
the entire intestines may be drawn out including the long 
canal that is attached to the gullet. Truss the wings back 
flat; the legs growing close at the sides of the body and 
being naturally short do not require the tying that chicken 
legs do. The breast is flat and broad like that of all swim- 
ming birds. Stuff the duck with any good stuflSng liked 
and roast from one and a half to two hours. 

For the roast duck or duckling, as the case may be, there 
is nothing nicer than a good savory bread stufi^g, though 



Poultry 221 

many people like an oyster or some other fancy dressing. 
For the savory bread stuffing, take, the day before it is 
needed, a loaf of baker's bread and with a sharp knife cut off 
very thinly the crust of the entire loaf. Then break the 
bread into pieces and put it into a square of cheesecloth, 
tie it up, and hang it in the air. When ready to make the 
stuffing, crumb the bread fine and add to it the juice of 
a large onion, pepper, salt, a quarter pound of butter cut 
into small pieces, a teaspoon of powdered sage, a dash of 
mace, a little sweet basil, a little sweet marjoram, a gill of 
cream, and one beaten egg. Mix the dressing thoroughly ; 
if it seems a little dry, add nothing more, as the butter and 
meat jtiices will moisten it sufficiently. There is one 
addition many Southerners make to this dressing, which is a 
slice of pickled pork diced and fried a delicate brown. 
Roast the ducks or ducklings in the usual way, covering 
them until they are well cooked through before allowing 
them to brown. Strain the dish gravy from the roasting 
pan, add a cupful of rich stock, thicken it with browned 
flour, and when ready to serve drop into it a dozen large 
seeded raisins. Garnish the ducks or ducklings with slices 
of fried tomato and cress. 

Ducks and Canots 

Prepare for cooking a few carrots, boil them tmtil they 
are soft, drain, put them into a saucepan, add enough 
butter to allow them to mash well; then mash them thor- 
oughly. Add to the carrots a quarter pint of rich stock, a 
teaspoon of sugar, and a saltspoon each of salt and pepper. 
Allow them to heat again to boiling point, then rub through 
a sieve. Have ready some slices of cold duck, lay them in 
the carrot pur^e, and let them stay on the stove long enough 
to heat thoroughly through, but do not allow them to boil. 
Serve garnished with croutons and parsley. The carrot 
pur^e may be made in the morning and left, ready to heat 
up, until time for getting supper. 



222 Poultrx 

Giblet Pie 



Clean a set of duck or goose giblets and put them in a 
stewpan with a pint of water, one onion, pepper, salt, and a 
few sprigs of savory herbs. Simmer for one and a half 
hours, take them out, cut them into small pieces, and let 
them cool. Line the shallow pudding dish with the crust 
and have one pound of nunp steak cut in small pieces. 
Put a layer in the bottom, then a layer of the giblets, and so 
on; then season with pepper, salt, and some Itmips of butter 
and add the strained gravy in which the giblets were boiled. 
Cover with a top crust, leaving a rotmd hole in it, and 
bake in a good oven about one hour and a half. 

The crust may be covered with a piece of writing paper 
to keep it from getting too brown. If the cup is used to 
draw up the gravy in the pie, it is put in the bottom and 
must be not larger than the hole in the crust so that it may 
be fished out easily. This is a very cheap and very tasty 
pie. 

Guinea Fowl 

This fowl is a cross between the wild bird and the barn- 
yard fowl. Its meat is dark, of good flavor and nourishing. 
The fowls are good stuffed and roasted, fricasseed with 
potato dumplings or in the following way. 

Guinea Fowl en Casserole 

Fix the guinea fowl just as chicken is fixed, adding little 
potatoes, plenty of butter, pepper, salt, grated onion and 
white turnips cut in little balls with the potato cutter, a gill 
of cream, and half a cupful of milk in which a teaspoon 
of browned flour is mixed, and cook covered tightly. 

Pigeon and Squab Cookery 

In choosing pigeons it is wise to select the white feathered 
young birds, as their flesh is apt to be more delicate than 



Poultry 223 

that of the dark feathered birds, which is stronger and 
more gamy in flavor. They should be drawn at once. In 
selecting squabs pick out the short thick birds for they 
yield the most meat. Both pigeons and squabs must be 
dry picked. 

Roast Pigeons 

Clean and truss the birds in the usual way, stuffing them 
with a small quantity of savory stuffing; pour a little melted 
butter over them and dust lightly with pepper and salt. 
Roast for from a half to three quarters of an hour. Add a 
little stock to the dish gravy, thicken it slightly, and turn 
into a tureen. 

Broiled Pigeons 

Fix them the same as squabs (see below), and when done 
add butter, pepper, and salt. If liked, a little smooth 
tomato or mushroom sauce may be served with the birds. ^ 

Pigeon Pie 

Line individual pie dishes with good puff paste; cut a 
pound and a half of rump steak in small squares. Cut in 
small pieces three pigeons, lard them with butter, and put 
them with the steak in a stewpan with a pint of good red 
stock and let them stew half an hour; remove from the 
fire, and when cool season and fill the pies, adding a little 
chopped button mushroom and the juice of an onion to 
each pie, with enough of the stock to fill the pie. Cover 
each with a lattice crust and bake until the crust is done. 

Broiled Squabs 

Por broiling, split the squabs down the back, clean them 
carefully, dust with pepper and salt, buttef the gridiron 
and broil over a brisk steady fire. 



224 Poultry 

Squab en Casserole 

Select pltimp squabs, dean, and stuff them with savory 
dressing, truss, and dust with pepper, salt, and a little 
flour, then lay them into the casserole, which has been well 
buttered, add a grated onion, a grated carrot, the heart of 
celery, finely chopped, a few potato balls cut with the 
scoop, a lump of butter, six raisins, a slice of bacon, a wine- 
glass of white wine, and a cup and a half of cold water. 
Wipe the inside of the cover very lightly with a bud of 
garlic. This should cook at least two hours in the oven and 
is of course served in the casserole. 

Stewed Squab 

Prepare the squabs, after cleaning, by cutting them into 
halves, using enough to allow one bird to a person when 
served. Put them into the stewpan with a slice of bacon, 
enough white stock to cover them, and stew a half hour. 
Dish the birds on toast and thicken the gravy, adding ma- 
soning to taste; then pour it over the birds. Garnish them 
with parsley and potatoes on the half shell. 

Boned Squab 

Have one jumbo squab boned. Pill it with savory 
stuffing and lay it in a well buttered shallow baking pan. 
Cover for twenty minutes, basting with melted butter to 
which pepper, salt, and a gill of white wine have been added. 
Delicately brown it, lay it on a slice of toast, slightly thicken 
the gravy, turn a little over the squab, garnish with cress 
and toast sippets, and serve fresh stewed pineapple sauce 
with it. 

Ftied Squabs 

Clean and split four squabs, wash, and truss neatly. 
Put into a saucepan a well washed and diced soup bunch, 
a sliced onion, a bay leaf, three cloves, a tablespoon of 



Poultry 225 

Worcestershire sauce. Lay in the squabs and add two 
cups of water. Cover closely and cook gently for one hour. 
Remove squabs and stuff them with sausage meat, dust 
with flour, roll in egg and crumbs, and fry in very hot fat. 
Drain the gravy they were boiled in, thicken and season 
it, and turn it over toast slices on a hot platter and lay the 
squabs on it, garnishing them with sprays of fried parsley. 

To Bone Fowls 

After drawing, singeing, and wiping out the fowl to be 
boned cut off the head. Next cut through the skin all 
around the first joint of each leg and pull them off from the 
fowl to draw out the large tendons. Raise the flesh first 
from the lower end of the backbone and a little also from 
the end of the breastbone; work the knife gradually to the 
socket of the thigh ; with the point of the knife detach the 
joint from it, take the end of the bone firmly in the fingers, 
and cut the flesh clean from it down to the next joint, round 
which pass the point of the knife carefully; cut round the 
next bone, keeping the edge of the knife dose to it, until 
the whole of the leg is done. Remove the bones from the 
other leg in the same way. Next detach the flesh from the 
back and breast bones sufficiently to enable you to reach 
the upper joints of the wings. Proceed with these as with 
the legs, but be careful not to pierce the skin of the second 
joint; it is usual to leave the pinions tmboned, in order to 
shape the fowl more readily when it is dressed. The wish- 
bone and neck bones may now be easily cut away, the 
back and side bones taken out without being divided, and 
the breastbone separated carefully from the flesh. As the 
work progresses the flesh must be turned back from the 
bones upon the fowl until the bird is turned completely 
inside out. After the one remaining bone is removed, draw 
the wings and legs back to their proper form, and turn the 
fowl right side out. 

In stuffing the fowl and re-shaping very often the legs 
15 



226 Poultry 

are drawn inside the body, as is the neck, which makes the 
bird very compact. 

Turkeys are boned in the same manner and the legs and 
neck are always drawn in to help fill the large cavity. 

If securely trussed and well sewed the birds may be 
either boiled, stewed in rich gravy, or roasted after boning, 
but they must be gently cooked for fear of bursting, and 
they must not be stuffed too full. 

Domestic Rabbit Stew 

Select a pair of rabbits that are fat and freshly killed, 
dean them, remove the skin, and wash thoroughly. Cut, 
or joint, them, place them in the stewpan, and fill it three 
quarters full of cold water. Put on the fire and allow it 
to boil for five minutes, skimming carefully; then add a 
large thinly sliced onion, one diced carrot, two tablespoons 
of chopped parsley, and let cook until the rabbit is very 
tender. Then add six potatoes cut in thick slices; cook 
twenty minutes longer, then remove the rabbit and vege- 
tables to a hot platter with the skimmer; thicken the gravy 
and turn over the stew. 

Rabbit Pie 

Cut up one young rabbit in pieces, removing carefully 
the large bones. Line a deep pudding dish with good pie 
crust and put in a layer of the meat, a layer of thinly sliced 
hard-boiled egg, a grated onion, and a little diced ham; dust 
lightly with pepper and salt, a grating of nutmeg, and 
continue in this fashion until the pie dish is filled. Pour 
over the top a half gill of melted butter and a cup of water 
to which a tablespoon of chutney syrup, a teaspoon of 
Worcestershire sauce, and tablespoon of tomato ketchup 
have been added. Put on the top crust, leaving a large 
steam vent in the center, and bake an hour and a half. 



GAME 

Included under this head are partridges, pheasants, wild 
ducks and geese, prairie chickens, quail, snipe, rail birds, 
spruce hens, plover, mud hen, kingfisher, and wild turkey; 
squirrels, opossums, bear, buffalo, venison, ostrich meat, 
and terrapin. 

All game should be hung with feathers or fur on, but 
carefully drawn, for a short time, covered from insects. 
Of course weather conditions govern the time for hanging. 

Draw the game birds carefully and wipe them out but do 
not wash them. It is said that wild game is more easily 
digested than domestic meat. The birds mentioned are 
usually broiled, roasted, or cooked en casserole according to 
taste and their size. 

Squirrels are cooked in the same ways that rabbits or 
Belgian hares are cooked. 

Oposstuns are cleaned, stuffed with any good savory 
stuffing, or with potato, and roasted for three hours or more 
according to size, being basted often. 

Venison, buffalo, and bear steaks are cut, cooked, and 
served in the same way as the ordinary beef steak. When 
the carcass of these animals is cut up it is done in the same 
way that beef is cut. These meats must be served very 
hot, for when cold they are heavy eating and unpalatable. 

The baby ostrich, weighing from sixty to one htmdred 
pounds, is prepared by plucking, cleaning, and removing 
head and legs. It is then placed in a tub to marinate in the 
following mixture: Six pounds of sliced onions, five of 
sliced carrots, three btmches of parsley, a quarter pound 
of whole black pepper, two dozen bay leaves, thirty cloves, 

227 



228 

twelve whole allspice, three sliced garlics, four quarts of 
claret, one quart of vinegar, two quarts of sherry, a pint 
of brandy, two potinds of brown sugar, a quarter pound of 
juniper berries, all mixed thoroughly together. Let the 
bird marinate for three days, turning it often and keeping 
well covered. Remove the bird at the end of that time and 
place it in a large pan with about five quarts of water. It 
must be roasted in a baker's oven not too hot. Baste often 
with the marinade. After cooking two hours add the 
marinade and cook from four to six hours until it is a nice 
brown color. 

Serve the bird k la barbacue. Skim and strain the gravy 
and add to it a cup of fresh horseradish, two pints of currant 
jelly, salt and pepper to taste, one grated orange peel, and 
six oranges thinly sliced. Boil fifteen minutes and serve 
in a hot tureen. This is a rare and unusual dish. 

Quail Boiled in Butter 

Take one dozen properly prepared quail and put them 
into three pounds of melted butter. Lret them boil evenly 
until tender. When done, serve on toast garnished with 
lemon points and parsley, with a dish border of broiled 
potatoes. The butter the birds were boiled in may be 
strained and set aside for future use to fry things in. 

To Prepare Terrapin 

Wash the terrapin by shaking it about in a tub of 
water holding just enough to immerse it, then plunge head 
downward into a large vessel of water that is boiling hard. 
Cook fifteen minutes or until the skin can be rubbed from 
the legs with a wet cloth. Take out and put again over the 
fire with just enough boiling water to cover, and when 
the shells begin to open it is sufficiently tender. 

Next pull off the under shell and cut the ligaments which 
fasten it to the upper shell. There is then just a mass of legs 



and intestines. Pull off the legs and the intestines massed 
around the liver, eggs, and sandbag only are left. Cut off 
the liver, taking care to leave enough attached to the gall 
so as not to break it; take out the eggs and put them with 
the liver in cold water. 

Remove all the meat from the shells and have ready a 
half pint of good champagne sauce, and allow the meat to 
simmer in it for fifteen minutes. 

The liver may be boiled and added; and the eggs, if any 
are present, may also be boiled and added to the stew. 



STDFFINGSi SAUCES, AND GRAVIES 

Good Stuffing 

• Take one pound of sausage meat and add to it the juice 
of two onions, a tablespoon of Worcestershire sauce, a 
tablespoon of chopped tarragon leaves, pepper, salt, a tea- 
spoon of finely powdered sage, a tablespoon of sugar, and 
beat into it the stiffly beaten whites of two eggs. Add two 
cups of bread crumbs, a half cup of apple sauce, and a half 
cup of finely chopped celery. Mix thoroughly and last of 
all stir in the two egg yolks. 

Savoiy Stuffing 

This is especially good for geese or turkeys. Take three 
tart apples, pared, cored, and chopped fine, one onion, one 
stalk of celery, a teaspoonful of parsley, and a cup and a 
half of bread crtmibs. Chop all fine and mix together, 
adding a lump of butter the size of an egg, a tablespoon 
of sugar, pepper and salt, a teaspoon of powdered sage. 
Moisten all with a gill of cream. If it is not quite moist 
enough, add another lump of butter, which will moisten it 
sufficiently when heated, and it is ready for use. 

Pdtato Stuffing 

Force eight boiled potatoes through a potato ricer. Add- 

one third cup melted butter, one cup cream, three eggs well 

beaten together, and two medium-sized onions finely 

chopped. Beat two minutes and season with pepper and 

salt. 

230 



Stu£Sn^8» Sauces* and Gravies 231 

Chestnut Stufllng 

A very good chestnut stuffing for goslings is made by 
taking fifty chestnuts, peeled, blanched, and chopped fine; 
place in a saucepan with two ounces of butter, a half pound 
of sausage meat, a little minced parsley, half a bud of 
garlic, and a generous dusting of pepper and salt; cook for 
ten minutes, add a half cup of fine bread crumbs, and when 
cool stuff the fowl. 

Turkish Stufllng 

Parboil two handfuls of rice, peel a dozen chestnuts and 
cut them fine, add a handftd of currants, a few pistachio 
nuts, a saltspoon each of pepper and salt, and a dash of cin- 
namon; mix and heat all together. When a little cool, 
stuff the turkey and garnish with stuffed peppers and 
parsley. 

Forcemeat Stufllng 

Cook two finely chopped onions in one ounce of fresh 
butter for five minutes. Soak the crumbs of a stale loaf of 
bread in water for ten minutes; press out the water, add two 
beaten eggs, a saltspoon each of salt, pepper, grated nut- 
meg, sage, three skinned sausages, and a little chopped 
parsley. Add the cooked onions and mix well together, 
then stuff the turkey. 

Roast Turkey, Oyster Stuflbig 

Wash and dry two dozen medium-sized oysters, add a 
cup and a half of bread crumbs, juice of one onion, dusting of 
salt and pepper, and tablespoon of celery essence. Stuff 
the turkey and serve with brown gravy. Garnish with 
watercress. 



232 St\sffin^s» Sauces* and Gravies 

Roast Turkeyi Chestnut StufSng 

Peel and blanch a pint of chestnuts, chop fine, and cover 
with a cup of water in a clean saucepan and boil until soft; 
rub through a sieve and add to two small cups of bread 
crumbs, a saltspoon of 4)epper, half a teaspoon of salt, a 
dash of sweet herbs and juice of a small onion, two well 
beaten eggs; mix well and stuflf the turkey. Serve with 
brown gravy, to which add a gill of white wine. Garnish 
with tiny fried sausages. 

itoast Turkey, Mac^doine Stuffing 

Drain one bottle of mac^doine vegetables and add two 
cups of crumbs, saltspoon each of pepper and salt, a dash of 
paprika, a half cup of boiled ham chopped fine, and enough 
stock to moisten it. Stuff turkey and serve with champagne 
sauce. Garnish with fried parsnips and toast sippets. 

Celery Stuffing 

Boiled turkey with celery stufBng makes its appeal to the 
hearty appetite. Chop three stalks of white celery, add a 
small cup of bread crumbs, two ounces of melted butter, 
a saltspoon of pepper, a half teaspoon of salt and juice of 
one onion, two beaten eggs; mix all together and stuff 
the turkey. Sew up the apron, make a French neck and 
truss it firmly. Wring a cloth out of cold water, flour it 
and wrap the turkey in it, and plunge it into boiling water; 
boil quickly for half an hour, then slowly for three hours 
for a nine-pound turkey and ten minutes for each added 
pound. Serve with celery sauce and garnish with parsley. 

Sausage Stuffing 

Take one pint of bread crumbs and add to them three 
quarters of a pound of sausage meat; mix well and add a 
grated onion, a saltspoon of pepper, a half teaspoon of 
salt, a half teaspoon of sage, two tablespoons of chutney 



Stuffings* Sauces, and Gravies 233 

syrup, and a small cup of apple sauce. Mix thoroughly 
and it is ready to use. 

Sweet Stuflhig 

Take a pint of bread crumbs and add to them a quarter 
cup of very finely minced celery, one cup of finely minced 
cold boiled chicken, a tablespoon of finely minced boiled 
ham, a half saltspoon of pepper, a half teaspoon of salt, 
a half gill of melted butter, a tablespoon of ginger syrup, 
and a small tumbler of currant jelly. Break the jelly into 
pieces and beat it through the stuSing. 

Nuts are nice added to almost any of the bread stuffings, 
fresh or salted, chopped or ground fine. 

Art of Making Sauces and Gravies 

The preparation and appearance of sauces and gravies 
are of the highest consequence in modem cooking, and in 
nothing else does the talent and taste of the cook so display 
itself. Their special suitability for the various viands 
they are to accompany cannot be too carefully studied in 
order that they shall harmonize and blend with them 
perfectly. 

Sauces should possess a decided character of their own; 
and, whether sharp or sweet, savory or plain, should carry 
out their names in a distinct manner. A sauce may be hot 
or cold, but a gravy is invariably hot. A sauce is usually 
served in a sauce-boat, while a gravy is put in a gravy bowl 
or tureen. 

A brown sauce, generally speaking, should not be as 
thick as a white sauce because it is usually much richer and 
belongs in a way to the gravy family; the white sauce under 
its various names should not be thicker than cold honey, 
as it is intended to adhere to the poultry or other foods that 
it covers, allowing enough remaining in the dish to put 
an extra spoonful over each portion in serving. It should 



234 Stuffings, Sauces, and Gravies 

always be smooth and free from lumps, preferably thickened 
with butter and flour, rubbed to a paste, arrowroot, or eggs. 
In thickening the sauce it should reach boiling point but 
never boil lest it curdle. 

On no account must sauces be thickened with enough 
cornstarch, for instance, to become like custard in texture. 
A cream sauce must always be served hot and kept hot to be 
at its best. Browned flour will be found the best to thicken 
sauces and gravies with. Remember that small quantities 
cool quickly and as the gravy is served it is wise to set it 
back on the plate-warmer or over a hot water dish during the 
serving of the course at which it is used, so that the last 
helping may be as good as the first and not congealed or 
greasy by being allowed to stand and cool. 

A small double boiler, two smooth saucepans of different 
size, and, if many sauces are made, a bain-marie pan and 
saucepans, should all be kept exclusively for this purpose. 
The latter is a French convenience too little known in the 
United States. It consists of a deep square pan filled with 
boiling water into which are set small, covered, straight- 
sided saucepans holding the sauces, gravies, entries, or 
anything that requires an even, steady heat. If the dinner 
hour is a bit uncertain, sauces and gravies will in this way 
be kept in perfect condition until they are needed; in other 
circumstances they would dry out and not be fit to use. 

Sauces for fish, meats, game, cooked entries, croquettes, 
pd.t6s, and puddings are all made after rules especially laid 
down for their concoction, which, if closely followed, will 
crown the cook's efforts with success. 

Fashions in food colorings and gamishings change with 
the seasons. The popular colors of dress and decoration 
are followed as nearly as possible in the various dishes, and 
the recent black-and-white fad accentuated the idea. 

The Breton vegetable coloring paste in bottles comes in 
red, green, violet, brown, yellow and orange and rose. 
The black note is gained by the use of truffles and caviar. 
Almost all shades of these colors are possible for sauces; the 



St\sffin|(8« Sauces, and Gravies 235 

only seeming impossibility is to effect blues, so this must be 
done by the addition of a floral garnish. 

Straight mayonnaise furnishes a beautiful yellow without 
adding extra coloring matter. Adding enough ketchup it 
may be made a shell pink, which is most decorative; again 
adding the spinach coloring matter will make it a tan or a 
golden brown. The addition of violet mustard will color 
it violet and a little of the coloring paste added will produce 
a deeper purple. This gives quite a diversity of colors for 
salad sauces by the use of the same foundation. 

A cream sauce may be left uncolored by thickening it 
without egg, and dotting it with truffles or caviar before 
serving makes it a futurist sauce. Again it may be made 
into a Spanish sauce by thickening it with the egg and a 
little saffron powder, and adding some chopped red pepper 
before serving. Cream sauce may be tinted pink and have 
shrimp shredded through it for a sauce chiffonade to serve 
with fish. Tinting with spinach coloring and having a little 
chopped parsley added makes the cream sauce a Dublin 
sauce to serve with boiled fish or with boiled potatoes. 

Tomato sauce requires no extra coloring, being a beautiful 
red in itself; but with the addition of capers, peas, olive 
curls, or green pepper strips it becomes a Scotch sauce to 
serve with chops or cutlets. 

Grape ketchup, and melted currant jelly sauce, asparagus 
sauce, and cucumber sauce are all good natural-colored 
sauces to serve with fish or meat. 

An English brown sauce is a rich dark brown without 
added color. Foundation sauces may also be used with 
vegetables. 

English BiDWQ Sauce or Gravy 

Put two ounces of butter into a saucepan ; slice two onions 
very thin and cook in the butter until they are a delicate 
brown, then add two pounds of shin of beef cut in small 
pieces, and two small slices of lean bacon, a half teaspoon of 



236 Stuffings, Sauces, and Gravies 

salt, a saltspoon of pepper, three cloves, and two qiiarts of 
water. Let all boil until the contents are a nice brown 
color, stirring occasionally; then simmer gently for an hour 
and a half, strain, and when cold remove all the fat. Turn 
the sauce back into a clean saucepan and heat. Melt 
three ounces of butter in a stewpan, sift into it two ounces 
of flour, and stir until it is a light brown color; when it is 
cool, add it to the sauce and boil all up quickly. This 
sauce is good for any warmed-up meat, over hash or cutlets. 

Bechamel or French White Sauce 

Put into a clean saucepan one quart of white stock, 
adding one small bunch of parsley carefully washed and 
chopped, two cloves, half a bay leaf, one small bunch of 
savory herbs, a half teaspoon of salt, a saltspoon of pepper, 
and a half cup of button mushrooms. When it has boiled 
long enough to extract the flavor of all the ingredients, and 
boiled down almost one half, strain it carefully, wash the 
saucepan, then return the sauce to it; mix one teaspoon of 
arrowroot in one pint of cream and let it simmer very gently 
for five minutes, then add to it the reduced stock and let all 
simmer gently for ten minutes or until the sauce is of the 
right consistency for immediate use. As this is what is 
known as a foundation sauce, different sauces may be 
made from it by taking a small portion and adding other 
ingredients to it. 

A Good Cream Sauce 

Melt two tablespoons of butter in a saucepan, add two 
tablespoons of flour, one half teaspoon of salt, and a quarter 
teaspoon of pepper; rub together very smooth, then add one 
cup of cold milk. Put the saucepan over the fire and stir 
until the sauce comes to boiling point. Remove from the 
fire and set the saucepan into a larger one half filled with 
boiling water to keep the sauce at the right temperature 
until used. 



Stuffings* Sa\sces» and Gravies 237 

French Cream Sauce 

This is a sauce to use on mushrooms and sweetbreads. The 
breads are first parboiled in salt water, then cut in pieces. 
Button mushrooms cut in halves are added. Take two 
tablespoons of butter; when melted add the juice of one 
lemon, a saltspoon of pepper, a half teaspoon of salt, and 
the juice of a small onion. Have ready a cup of cream in 
which a tablespoon of cornstarch has been dissolved. 
Take as much bicarbonate of soda as would rest on a ten- 
cent piece and put in the butter. When it froths up, add 
the cream and stir constantly until it is the right thickness. 
Set back from the heat, add the breads and the mushrooms 
and, if liked, a wineglass of sherry — a. matter of taste. 
Serve in covered dish. Chicken may be used instead of the 
sweetbreads, or lobster, scallops, codfish tongues, or oysters, 
if desired. 

Tomato Sauce 

Take one can or quart of tomatoes, three chopped onions, 
one chopped pepper, one clove, a bay leaf, a bunch of 
celery cut up, half teaspoon of salt, a saltspoon of pepper, 
and a tablespoon of Worcestershire sauce. Simmer for an 
hour, then add a pinch of bicarbonate of soda and half a 
cup of sugar. Strain carefully and thicken with butter 
and flour to which a little cornstarch has been added. 
Thicken to the consistency of cold honey and strain again 
if it seems at all Itunpy. Pour over the tongue and garnish 
with cress. For other uses it may be best served in a sauce- 
boat. 

Tomato Cuny 

Take a tablespoonful of good curry powder, add to a 
quart of stewed and seasoned tomatoes, place in a pudding 
dish with alternate layers of uncooked, well washed rice. 



238 Stuffings, Sauces, and Gravies 

using a cupftd of the latter; let the top layer be of bread 
crumbs, dot with butter, and bake until the rice is done. 

Burnt Onions for Gravies 



Chop one large Spanish onion and boil it five minutes in a 
half pint of water; add half a potuid of sugar and simmer 
gently until the mixture becomes nearly black. Then 
strain the mixtttre into three quarters of a pint of boiling 
vinegar, stirring constantly with a wooden spoon. When 
cold, bottle for use. 

Drawn Butter Sauce 

Rub three tablespoons of butter with two tablespoons of 
flour, add a quarter teaspoon of salt, and a half saltspoon of 
pepper. Add slowly one cup of boiling water and cook 
until the sauce is thick and smooth. 

Though the following sauces are classified they are not 
limited solely to the dishes for which they are given, and 
may be used with any foods the housewife may feel she 
would like to serve them with. 

SAUCES TO BE SERVED WITH nSH 

Anchovy Sauce 

Take one and a half tablespoons of bottled anchovy 
essence, blend it perfectly with a half pint of melted butter, 
add a generous dash of red pepper, juice of half a lemon, six 
stoned and thinly sliced olives, and half a teaspoon of onion 
juice. Let the sauce boil up for one minute, then serve 
hot. This is very good over any boiled or broiled fish. 

Anchovy Sauce 

Bone four anchovies and make a smooth paste of them 
with one ounce of butter. Melt butter enough to make a 



Stuffings, Sauces* and Gravies 239 

half pint, stir in the paste and cayenne pepper to taste, 
simmer for three or four minutes, and add the juice of half a 
lemon. Serve hot with any sort of fish. 

Asparagus Sauce 

Take one bunch of fresh asparagus, cut off the green 
tips and boil them in fair water until they are done but 
not broken, drain, and set aside to cool. Wash the remains 
of the bunch and cut the stalks into inch pieces; boil until 
they are very tender in a pint of water. When done put 
through a pur^e sieve, add a cup of hot milk, then thicken 
slightly with a little butter and flour rubbed to a cream, 
add a saltspoon of salt, a half a saltspoon of pepper, and the 
asparagus tips. This is excellent over any boiled or baked 
fish. 

Bombay Sauce 

This sauce is served with carefully drained boiled codfish 
or salmon. It is a rich drawn butter, highly seasoned, 
and just before serving a tablespoon of madeira wine is 
added in which a dove and a piece of ginger root have been 
marinating at least one hour. The fish may be hot or cold, 
but the edges must not be allowed to dry. Garnish with 
slices of lemon through which sprays of parsley have been 
drawn. 

Champagne Sauce 

One cup of champagne, two cloves, one bay leaf, one 
teaspoon of sugar, and four pepper corns. Let infuse for 
five minutes, then add a cup of English brown sauce and 
simmer ten minutes. Strain into a hot tureen or over 
broiled blue fish. 

Caper Sauce 

Cut three dessertspoons of capers in half, wash carefully, 
and add them to a half pint of melted butter; saltspoon of 



240 Stuffings* Sauces, and Gravies 

salt and a half saltspoon of pepper; add a teaspoon of 
anchovy sauce, simmer one minute and keep stirring, and 
it is ready to serve. 

Celeiy Sauce 

Wash and cut into one-inch pieces a large bunch of celery, 
boil it in salted water until it is tender; put one pint of 
white stock into a stewpan with a bunch of savory herbs 
and a blade of mace and let all simmer for a half hour; then 
strain off the liquor, add the celery to it, and thicken with 
butter and flour rubbed to a cream. Just before serving 
add half a pint of cream and the juice of half a lemon; boU 
up once, add a half saltspoon of pepper and a saltspoon of 
salt, and serve. 

Cheese Sauce for Boiled Cod 

Mix two tablespoons of butter with two tablespoons of 
flour to a smooth paste, add two cups of cold water, and 
cook until thick and smooth; then add a half cup of grated 
cheese, saltspoon of pepper and a half teaspoon of salt, 
and one hard-boiled egg cut in small pieces. Serve in a hot 
tureen with boiled codfish. 

Crab Sauce 

Take two large fresh boiled crabs and remove all the 
meat, shredding it with a silver fork. Take a half pint of 
melted butter and a gill of cream, a well beaten egg, pepper 
and salt to taste. Let simmer, and when slightly thickened 
add the crab meat and a teaspoon of finely chopped pars- 
ley. Serve in gravy-boat. 

Cucumber Sauce 

Pare and quarter four cucumbers, remove the seeds, 
cut in inch pieces, put in a linen cloth, and squeeze the water 
out. Put two tablespoons of butter in a saucepan, add 



Stuffings, Sauces, and Graviea 241 

the cucumber pieces, and shake over a brisk fire until they 
are a good color. Then add six tablespoons of brown 
gravy, a quarter saltspoon of pepper, and a saltspoon of 
salt. Simmer gently for ten minutes and serve. This is 
an excellent fish sauce. 

Dutch Sauce 

Take two tablespoons of water, two of vinegar (tarra- 
gon), juice of half a lemon, two ounces of butter, a half 
teaspoon of flour, an& the yolks of two eggs. Put all in- 
gredients> but lemon juice into a stewpan, let come to 
boiling point but not boil, and when thick enough remove 
from the fire. Strain, add the lemon juice, and serve in 
sauce-boat. 

Egg Sauce 

Boil four eggs hard, and when cold chop them fine. Melt 
smoothly a half pint of butter, add a saltspoon of red pepper 
and a teaspoon of lemon juice. Serve the mixture hot for 
salt fish. 

Fennel Sauce 

To a cup of carefully melted butter add one tablespoon 
of washed and finely chopped fennel seed; let simmer 
for two minutes. Serve with broiled mackerel, shad, or 
bluefish. 

Gooseberry Sauce for Mackerel 

Boil one pint of green gooseberries in water until tender, 
then strain through a sieve. Put into a saucepan two otmces 
of butter and three tablespoons of rich stock; saltspoon of 
salt, half saltspoon of pepper and a half saltspoon of nut- 
meg; add the pulp of gooseberry and a little sugar and 
simmer gently together a few minutes and serve hot. 
Id 



24^ Stuffini^s, Sauces, and Graviea 

Hessian Sauce 

Beat until thoroughly mixed four tablespoons of 
freshly grated horseradish, a tablespoon of very finely 
ground bread crumbs, saltspoon each of salt and pepper, 
and a gill of sour cream. Then add a teaspoon of lemon 
juice or tarragon vinegar, and serve with flaked cold boiled 
salmon or codfish. 

Maitre d'Hdtel Butter 

Work together a quarter of a pound of butter, a table- 
spoon of minced parsley, a saltspoon of salt, and a quarter 
saltspoon of pepper. Blend thoroughly, adding the juice 
of one large lemon. Melt over the teakettle. Serve 
over broiled fish. 

Matelote Sauce for Salmon 

Peel fifteen small onions and put them with a half tea- 
spoon of sugar into a two-pint saucepan. Add a quarter 
of a pound of butter and shake about until the onions are 
browning, then add a wineglass of sherry and a dessert- 
spoon of flour; stir gently, let it boil; then add a half a 
pint of water and a gill of good stock. Simmer until the 
onions are soft, season with salt, pepper, and a level tea- 
spoon of sugar, strain well and serve with boiled salmon. 

Mustard Sauce for Fresh Herring 

Mix one teaspoon of mustard, one dessertspoon of 
flour with three ounces of butter; stir in one gill of boiling 
water and a teaspoon of vinegar; boil five minutes and 
serve. 

Pineapple Sauce 

Make a good English brown sauce and when cooked 
strain and add one fresh pineapple, diced, let boil up once, 



Stuffings, Sauces, and Gravies 243 

then serve over boiled codfish that has had skin and bones 
removed and then been slightly flaked with a silver fork. 

Sardine Sauce 

Bone half a dozen large sardines, make an ordinary sauce 
of butter and stock, and in this boil the bones and skin with 
a minced onion, lemon peel, a bay leaf, a saltspoon each of 
pepper and salt, and a dash of nutmeg. Boil a half hour 
until well blended, then strain and add the sardine meat cut 
fine, and serve with boiled haddock. 

Sauce k la Alexandre Dumas 

This calls for a teaspoon of finely minced chives and the 
same amount of parsley, the juice of one onion, a table- 
spoon of olive oil, three drops of tobasco, half teaspoon 
Worcestershire sauce, a saltspoon of salt, a half saltspoon of 
pepper, teaspoon of tarragon vinegar, and a teaspoon of 
lemon juice. Mix thoroughly, and serve with raw oysters 
as a cocktail. 

SAUCES TO BE SERVED WITH MEAT^ GAME, AND 

POULTRY 

Brown Onion Sauce 

Slice and fry six large onions in a stewpan with two 
ounces of butter; stir them constantly until they are tender 
and beginning to brown, then pour over them a half pint 
of rich stock, add a saltspoon of pepper, a half teaspoon of 
salt, a tablespoon of Worcestershire sauce, and a tablespoon, 
of chutney syrup. Let all simmer gently until the onions 
are very tender, skim off any fat that rises to the surface, 
then strain all through a pur^e sieve, put it back into the 
saucepan to warm, and when it boils up it is ready for use. 



244 StufiGin^s, Sauces» and Gravies 

Blown Mushroom Sauce 

' Put one half pint of good beef gravy into a saucepan^ 
thicken slightly with butter and flour rubbed to a cream, 
add a saltspoon each of pepper and salt and a half pint of 
button mushrooms. Let all boil up and add a tablespoon 
of mushroom ketchup and the juice of an onion. This is 
an excellent sauce or gravy to serve with any roast meat. 

Carrot Sauce 

Take one large carrot, wash, scrape, and grate it; put a 
lump of butter the size of a walnut into a saucepan and 
when melted add the carrot, then a cup of good gravy or 
stock, a half teaspoon of salt, a saltspoon of pepper, a 
little finely chopped parsley, and a spoonful of lemon juice. 
Let it all stew until it is quite smooth and serve turned over 
the steak or, if preferred, in a sauce tureen. 

Chive. Sauce 

Make a rich brown gravy of a cup of stock and a cup of 
milk, thickened with browned flour and butter worked to a 
paste. Add to the gravy three tablespoons of chopped 
chives, and rub the platter with a bud of garlic before plac- 
ing the breaded cutlet on it. Pour the gravy over the 
meat and serve hot. 

Cranberry Sauce to Serve with Turkey 

To one quart of cranberries add one pint of water; stew 
until tender, strain, and add to the juice a cup of sugar. 
Stew the juice down for ten minutes, ttim into small molds, 
and serve when jelled. 

Cream Giblet Sauce 

Boil chicken giblets until tender, then chop fine and pour 
over them a tablespoon of good sherry. Make a rich cream 



Stuffings, Sa\ices, and Gravies 245 

sauce; when ready add the giblets and pour over hard-boiled 
eggs, sliced but not cut through, with crisp little pieces 
of bacon separating the slices. Garnish with olives and 
pimentos. 

French Onion Sauce, or Soubise 

Peel six onions, cut them into quarters, and put them 
in a stewpan with sufficient water to cover them. Add to 
them a bay leaf, a quarter saltspoon of potmded mace, the 
same amount of cayenne pepper, a quarter pound of minced 
ham, and boil tmtil the onions are tender. Lift them 
when done and put them through a pur6e sieve. Have 
ready a half pint of hot bechamel sauce, put the pureed 
onions to it, and stir over the fire until it just boils up, then 
serve. 

Horseradish Sauce 

Take four tablespoons of grated horseradish, one teaspoon 
of sugar, one teaspoon of salt, a half teaspoon of pepper, 
two teaspoons of made mustard, and sufficient vinegar to 
moisten the ingredients. Just before serving, add three 
tablespoons of heavy cream. If one wishes the sauce hot, 
just set the dish it is in into a pan of hot water until the 
sauce is hot, but do not allow it to curdle. 

Mint Sauce 

To one cup of hot vinegar add four dessertspoons of 
chopped mint leaves and two dessertspoons of sugar. 
This sauce should be made two hours before using, keep- 
ing it warm one hour to extract all flavoring from the 
mint, then cooling. 

Marron Sauce for Fowls 

Take a half pint jar of the cooking marrons, drain and 
put them into a half pint of white stock, two strips of 



04^ St\s£&n^s» Sauces, and Gravies 

lemon peel, pepper, salt to taste, three drops of tobasco, 
a teaspoon of Worcestershire sauce, a tablespoon of 
chopped celery, a tablespoon of onion juice, and a half 
cup of the liquor the chestnuts were put up in; let simmer 
tmtil the nuts are very tender, then rub them through a fine 
sieve, add a quarter pint of hot cream, and if the sauce 
is a little too thick, thin with a little hot milk. Serve very 
hot in a small gravy-boat. 

Olive Sauce 

Carefully stone a cup of olives, blanch them in boiling 
water, and throw them in cold water for five minutes. Take 
one half pint of red stock and heat; when it is hot add the 
olives and let them stew for half an hour. If necessary, 
thicken slightly with a little butter and flour rubbed to a 
cream, but do not have the sauce heavy. Add a teaspoon 
of lemon juice just before pouring it over the broiled steak. 

Orange Gravy 

Slice one small onion into a saucepan with a half pint 
of white stock, the juice of an orange, four strips of lemon 
peel, three leaves of sweet basil, and let the mixture simmer 
gently for fifteen minutes. Then add a glass of port wine, 
a saltspoon of salt, and a half saltspoon of pepper, and 
when it comes to boiling point serve very hot in a covered 
tureen. 

Parsley and Butter Sauce 

Take a good-sized bunch of parsley, wash carefully, and 
throw it into boiling salt water, let it boil five minutes, 
drain it, mince the leaves very fine, add the juice of an 
onion, a half saltspoon of red pepper, and pour over it in 
the tureen a half pint of smoothly made melted butter. 



Stuffin^St Sauces, and Gravies 247 

Sauce for Chops 

Mix with one cup of vinegar a teaspoon of grated horse- 
radish, one tomato, two Spanish peppers, two green peppers 
chopped, and cook for fifteen minutes. Strain through a 
sieve and serve with boiled meats or chops. 

Sauce Coquette ' 

• 

Melt together one jar of good currant jelly with a^glass 
of port wine. Heat but do not allow it to boil. Serve 
in a hot tureen with roast duck or guinea fowls, or with 
saddle of venison. 

Sauce Piquante 

To one can of tomatoes add one onion, one bay leaf, a 
clove, a stalk of celery, carrot cut fine, a spray of parsley, 
a teaspoon of kitchen bouquet, a saltspoon of salt, a 
half saltspoon of pepper, and a half cupful of good tomato 
ketchup. Boil gently twenty minutes; if it boils away too 
rapidly add a little water. Strain and thicken with a 
blended butter and flour thickening, to the consistence of 
honey. Add some sliced olives and serve. 

Sauce Robert 

Put two ounces of butter into a stewpan and throw 
into it three onions cut very fine; fry them a delicate brown, 
add one teaspoon of flour, and shake the onions well with it, 
then add a h^ cup of heavy stock, season with a teaspoon 
of mustard sauce, a teaspoon of tarragon vinegar, and the 
juice of half a lemon. When thoroughly mixed and heated 
pour over the broiled steak that is waiting on a hot platter. 

Sweet and Sour Sauce for Steak 

Brown a half cup of sugar with one tablespoon of flour, 
in a frying pan; add a half cup of stock, three quarters of a 



248 St\i£&n^8, Sauces, and Gravies 

cup of vinegar, a saltspoon of pepper, a half teaspoon of 
salt, and a teaspoon of Worcestershire sauce, and cook until 
very smooth, stirring constantly so that it does not catch 
or bum. 

White Mushroom Sauce 

Make a good creain sauce, not too thick. Prepare the 
fresh mushrooms in the usual way, saut6 them in butter for 
five or six minutes, then drain and put them into the sauce. 
The smaller sized mushrooms are best for this purpose, 
but if larger ones are used cut the flaps into four pieces. 
This sauce is excellent to serve with broiled veal cutlets. 

Walnut Gravy 

This may be used successfully with sweetbreads par- 
boiled and diced, or with breast of chicken, either cooked 
and boned at home or imported in glass from England. 
Chop or grind four tablespoons of English walnuts and 
put them in a pan with a large tablespoon of butter. Fry 
until the walnuts brown, stirring constantly to keep them 
from burning. Pour on one pint of very rich stock and let 
sinmier half an hour. Just before serving thicken with one 
tablespoon of flour, blended with a little butter, and add a 
few drops of onion juice, a few drops of kitchen bouquet, 
and a teaspoon of Mandalay sauce or chutney. Lay in the 
sweetbread or breast of chicken just a minute or two to 
heat, then serve garnished with olive rings or curls and 
parsley. 

Hot Spice 

This is excellent to add to sauces and gravies. Take 
two saltspoons each of ground ginger, black pepper, cinna- 
mon, seven cloves, a quarter teaspoon of mace, a saltspoon 
of cayenne pepper, one half teaspoon of grated nutmeg, and 
one and a half saltspoons of white pepper. Pound the 



Stuffings, Sauces, and Gravies 249 

ingredients and mix them thoroughly together, and when 
blended put them into a wide-mouthed, clean, dry bottle 
and cork it tightly. 

The various meat and game essences used in high-class 
cookery are also a great aid in sauce seasoning, and truffles, 
mushrooms, and nuts in powdered form are alwajrs a rich 
addition, as are the so-called sweet herbs and spices. 



FOOD GARNISHES AND THEIR MAKING 

The art of gaxnishing f cx)d dishes attractively has been 
brought to its present high state of perfection chiefly by 
the French chefs, though each nation has some special 
ways of accomplishing the same end by the use of things 
native to their surroundings. The modem table, however, 
combines all of the ideas developed for this purpose. When 
not procurable in one's own coimtry, bottled, canned, dried, 
boxed, preserved, or candied dainties which are famous in 
their own localites are used and though the foods are not 
quite in their original state, yet they make very eflEective 
substitutes, and to those who have not met them before 
they are quite as good. 

The old-fashioned idea of garnishing merely for the pleas- 
tu-e of the appearance has gradually been done away with, 
so that now the only up-to-date garnish which is permissible 
is the edible one. Nearly all dishes require some sort of 
garnish suitable to them, and a variety of ideas will come to 
the cook with practice and a little experimenting; there is 
very little written on this subject to guide her, but frequent 
visits to public dining places will give her hints that she 
may adopt and improve upon according to her interest in 
the subject and the materials she has at hand to work with. 

To the cook who makes a specialty of garnishing, the 
supply of tools is quite formidable. It includes knives for 
all sorts of plain and fancy cutting, not only for the cutting 
of vegetables, but of meats, dough, fruits, and eggs; tiny, 
fancy cutters of all kinds for vegetables; wheel cutters to 
strip vegetables and meats, egg slicers, fruit corers and 
parers, olive pitters, potato curlers, hashinettes for mincing 

250 



a 



Food GarniaHes and tHeir MaKini^ 251 

garnishes, pastry bags, and all sorts of tubes through which 
mashed potato and other vegetables, the yolks of hard- 
boiled eggs, and whipped cream may be squeezed and 
thus prettily garnish planked dishes; various grapefruit 
and orange cutters, kitchen scissors, and so on through a 
seemingly interminable list. 

Perhaps the simplest way of giving directions about 
the proper garnishes for different dishes is to take the dinner 
courses one by one. First one must remind the garnish 
maker that ever3rthing for this use must be of the freshest, 
must be carefully washed, cooled or cooked just right, and 
prepared with appropriate tools. 

Canapes of different sorts, served oftentimes before the 
soup, are pretty garnished with finely chopped red pepper, 
cold-boiled egg put through a ricer, thinly sliced truflBes 
cut in fancy shapes, or olive curls. These last are made by 
paring the olive round and round like an apple tmtil free 
from the stone, then spreading the inside with a little 
sardine or anchovy paste and laying them over the top of the 
canap^. Shrimps split and dipped in fancy sauces; button 
mushrooms which have been saut6d in butter and drained; 
rings of cucumber that have been hollowed out, stuffed 
with p&t6 de foie gras, and cut in slices; pepper or cold 
boiled egg-white rings, sprays of cress, parsley, tarragon, 
and chervil leaves; all these are good to use with the vari- 
ous sauces which go with the canapfe. 

The various broths are simply garnished with a spoonful 
of whipped cream, a spray of parsley or toasted croutons. 
The soups have the different macaroni preparations to 
vary the dear ones with, besides dumplings, noodles, toast 
squares, egg rings, diced meat, and vegetables. Spinach 
balls are made of boiled spinach chopped, drained, and 
seasoned, then mixed with a few fried bread crumbs and the 
beaten white of an egg; they are then rolled into shape, 
placed in the tureen, and the clear soup poured over them. 

For broiled fish, sprays of parsley drawn through slices of 
lemon cut thin and stuffed baked peppers or tomatoes in 



25^ Food GarxiisHea and tHeir MaKin^ 

turnip croquettes, French peas in beet baskets, shrimps 
rolled in lemon juice and then in minced tarragon leaves, or 
sprays of fried parsley. Boiled fish depends on the sauce 
used with it for part of its garnish. Aside from this, 
lemon quarters and parsley are generally used. For baked 
fish one may use cold boiled eggs cut in fancy ways, carrots 
cut in odd shapes, after being boiled tender and cooled, 
green tomatoes sliced and fried, oysters rolled in thin slices 
of bacon and fried, or chopped mushrooms which have been 
sauted in butter, drained, and arranged in a half hard- 
boiled egg-white cut lengthwise. For cold fish sprays of 
parsley, tarragon, chervil, or cress are used with lemon 
sliced or quartered, and sometimes dipped in minced parsley. 

Cold meats are garnished in much the same way as cold 
fish, with the addition of radish roses, lettuce leaves filled 
with potato or egg salads, cuciunber fingers, cold deviled 
vegetables, pineapple sticks, red peppers filled with mac6- 
doine salad, artichoke hearts in vinaigrette, French sausage 
pasties, Spanish peppers, violet mustard, mustard and 
fine herbs, or pickled com. 

Hot meats have all sorts of croquettes as edible garnish. 
There are tiny vegetable souffles; rolled pancakes filled 
with savory filling, then tied with a spray of willow grass; 
grilled vegetables and macaroni and cheese in ramekins; 
large steamed artichoke hearts with minced curried ham 
heaped on them, or the hearts split and stuffed with savory 
minced calf's liver; potato puffs, molded jellies, and vege- 
table aspic jelly. Various gravies and sauces also add to the 
garnish effects. 

Sweet garnishes are really in another class; still they may 
be touched upon here. Angelica and citron, pineapple 
sticks, preserved and candied fruits, powdered macaroons, 
stuffed raisins, prunes, and dates, halved or powdered 
nuts, glac^ fruits, kisses, marrons, fruit compotes and 
sauces, fancy jellies, and fruit aspic are a few of the better 
known garnishes which may be used according to the taste 
of the cook. 



Food GamisHes and tHeir Mahin^ 253 

Ice creams frozen in fancy shapes require no extra gar- 
nishes, nor do the creams that are served with fancy sauces 
or in melons, unless one desires to use cherries or cubes of 
fresh fruit. 

Candied rose leaves or mint leaves are pretty scattered 
over fruit salads, and nasturtium blossoms and leaves 
are pretty with beet leaves for garnishing cold meat or 
fish entries. Omelets are generally garnished with some- 
thing that indicates their filling. Sweet ones may have 
whipped cream roses with cherry or nut centers; Spanish 
omelet takes chopped red peppers or green pepper strips, 
ham omelet has egg and olive rings, meat omelets have thinly 
sliced truffles, and those filled with fine herbs take fried 
parsley and lemon thinly sliced. 

A few large seeded raisins added to a brown sauce with a 
little heap of chopped red pepper improve its appearance. 
A dusting of savory herbs and mignonette pepper through 
a fancy tube improves both the appearance and the flavor 
of a white sauce. Pastry fingers sprinkled with grated 
cheese and cayenne pepper before baking are good with 
salad and should be piled log cabin fashion on a doily. 
Bread sippets are always a useful garnish ; after being shaped 
they may be either toasted or fried in butter. 



RARE TRIFLES FOR THE TABLE 

There axe many imported delicacies shown in the choicer 
food shops which afford an occasional variation for the 
daily fare, and at the same time give interesting glimpses of 
the cotmtries from which they come. 

Small sweet potatoes from Mexico are sent to France, 
where they are prepared in a thin sweetened syrup, with a 
strip of vanilla bean. Placed in a wide-mouthed bottle, 
they are sealed and sent back to America to be used as a 
salad or a relish to be eaten with cold meat. They taste a 
bit like French chestnuts. 

Orange marmalade from Egypt shows the fruit cut in 
small quarters in a heavy jelly. It is prepared so that 
it is quite as tender as when done in the old way and has a 
flavor peculiarly its own. 

"Heart of Palm" comes in tall, slender glass bottles for 
the making of the dainties of salads. It also comes in 
cans ready for a pur^e, and in small bottles, spiced and 
seasoned, ready to use as a relish. It looks like stalks of 
giant asparagus, and is the color and texture of the pine- 
apple. 

Huckleberries from the Alps have less acid and are sweeter 
than those Americans are acquainted with and they are 
delightftil to serve with fresh cream cheese. Wild straw- 
berries from Prance, fresh preserved pnmes, pared white 
grapes, and mixed fruits in strange syrups, are some of the 
things good to serve with ice cream. 

Japanese kumquats and fresh figs stand on the preserve 
shelf beside bottles of tiny fresh limes and real roses in 
syrup. Mac6doine of vegetables for salads and soups, 

254 



Rare Trifles for tHe Table 255 

large French asparagus, artichokes, tiny turnips with olives, 
and carrots with olives are other bottled novelties. 

Sardines and other small fishes, put up with truffles, 
pickles, or pimentos, in sauces or in oils, offer wide choice. 
Odd relishes include pickled seaweed, spiced nasturtium 
buds, tiny ears of com from Prance, so tender that they are 
eaten cob and all, and many varieties of the olive family 
variously stuffed. 

In company with the usual French and German mustard 
pots, there are those containing mustard combined with 
fine herbs which color it a beautiful green, mustard with 
horseradish, and a lilac-colored mustard, "Violette de 
Brive," all of which are aristocrats in the land of condiments. 

Russia contributes caviar and several oddly prepared 
fish. English and Irish bacon, Virginia hams, Italian sau* 
sages and bolognas also engage the attention of the buyer 

Fresh cream cheese made to order and molded into heart- 
shaped baskets is not to be used as an adjunct to the salad 
cotu'se, but is eaten as a dessert with a favorite jelly or jam. 
Not to be overlooked among the cheeses of all nations is the 
Blue Stilton of England, a luxury in the cheese market. ^ 

There are wonderful p4t^s that are to be eaten cold. 
When served, they have their pastry covers lifted and the 
guest removes a portion with a hot spopn. 

Among the fresh daily offerings is the orchid salad with 
its delicate red-shaded coloring and dainty flavor. It has 
to be pulled fresh daily, for it does not keep like its ple- 
beian green cousins, but promptly shrivels and decays if 
allowed to stand overnight. This dainty was once the 
exclusive salad used on the tables of Italian royalty. To 
raise it in the United States a specially prepared soil has 
been imported and experimented with. 

"Heart of palm relish" is new. It is made of the 
heart of palm cut fine and seasoned all ready to turn out 
of the bottle onto the toast, in squares or rotmds, as pre- 
ferred. With a little red pepper strip garnish it is ready to 
serve. 



256 R.are Trifles for tHe Table 

Japanese mushroom hors d'ceuvre is new and delicious. 
It comes in little bottles that hold enough for four persons 
if it is served as it is and for six if anything is added to it. 
The mushrooms are gray on the outside and white at the 
heart, so they are decorative as well as good. Blanched 
ahnonds and tiny green melons are among the ingredients 
it contains. This may be served on toast rotmds lightly 
spread with anchovy paste or pat6 de foie gras, and gar- 
nished with egg rings and olive curls. 

The possibilities of the Madagascar artichoke hearts 
are many. For a relish one may scoop out the center with 
a teaspoon and fill it with sardines flaked and mixed with a 
little chopped red pepper, half a teaspoon of lemon juice, 
and a few drops of onion juice. Six artichokes are in each 
can. 

A new cheese has appeared that can be used for the salad 
course or as a dessert itself. It is made fresh daily and is 
called "Petits Gervais." The cheese comes in a little roll 
and belongs to the cream cheese family but has a flavor 
and texture peculiar to itself. For the salad course it is 
served with crackers in the usual way. When used for 
dessert it is sliced, and preserved wild strawberries are 
served with it, or any other rich preserve, jelly, or jam. 

Macaroni, colored green by spinach and red by tomato, 
is used the same as the white, but it makes very decorative 
additions to the vegetable course to use the green, plain 
boiled, aroimd panned spinach with a good drawn butter 
sauce; and the red boiled and arranged around stuffed 
and baked tomatoes with a highly seasoned smooth tomato 
sauce over all. 

Imported game p&t^s which come tinned may be made 
into most acceptable entries by heating and adding to 
them a suitable sauce. The imported mousse and the 
pur^e of game, fish, and vegetables are especially good for 
sandwich use and are excellent by way of adding variety 
to those better known. 

French sausages come in a can and are quite different 



Rare Trifles for the Table 257 

from otir own American product. They must be cut and 
mashed fine and flavored with a teaspoon of the green 
mustard which contains fine herbs, a saltspoon of pepper, 
a saltspoon of salt, and a few drops of onion juice. Spread 
them on the toast rotmds and garnish the canapes with a 
little chopped red pepper and an olive. 

New relishes include the *'Churisette," made of hop 
sprouts, nasturtitmi buds, cherries, and fresh mushrooms. 
They are drained and served on pieces of rotmd toast. 
** Otero" is made of pimentoes, tiny French melons, truflfles, 
and mushrooms, while ''Shimsji" has the nuts, melons, 
and several other savory ingredients. 

Herring roes or filets in oil are nice, drained then mari- 
nated in French dressing, to use for salad with red pepper 
and celery. 

Tomato Baskets 

Select small, high tomatoes. Cut the pulp away on 
each side at right angles, leaving a handle for the basket 
made of the base of the tomato, the basket standing on its 
stem end. Use for holding individual portions of tartare 
sauce to serve with fish. Arrange arotmd the platter and 
serve one with each portion. 

Aspic Jelly 

Put one and a half ounces of powdered gelatine into a 
saucepan with three and a half cups of good red stock, two 
bay leaves, four cloves, a small bunch of parsley, a small 
turnip diced, and a diced carrot, a blade of mace and a 
small broken stick of cinnamon, six sweet peppers, the 
juice and the rind of one lemon, one sliced onion, and a 
teaspoon of salt. Let all boil gently for forty minutes, 
skimming carefully as it boils. When done have a jelly bag 
squeezed out of hot water and turn the jelly into it; allow 
the jelly to drain over a wet mold. Do not squeeze the 

X? 



258 Rare Trifles for the Table 

bag as to do so clouds the jelly. Just before taking the 
jelly from the fire the whites and shells of two eggs should 
be added and stirred in thoroughly. The eggs clarify 
the jelly. A white stock used in place of the red stock 
will make the jelly a light color, while a cup of tomato 
juice will deepen the color when the red stock is used. 

Aspic Jelly for Decoration 

The aspic jelly may be poured into a wet dish about a 
quarter of an inch deep, and when it sets it may be cut 
with little pastry cutters into stars, half moons, blocks, 
diamonds, roses, or anyodd form for use as an edible garnish, 
or it may be turned into a wet dish, and just before it sets it 
may be covered with rows of cooked macaroni cut into 
rings, fancy-shaped vegetables, or chopped shrimp; if the 
macaroni is used place in the center of each ring a dot of 
chopped nut or pickle. When this is a little firm, pour over 
another layer, dusting the top with a little finely chopped 
parsley and paprika. When set and chilled cut in fancy 
shapes with cutters and use for the garnishing of fish or 
salads. Another way, before the jelly is set, to decorate the 
top is to put two cold boiled eggs through the ricer, dis- 
tributing it evenly over the surface. This surface may 
then be dotted with chopped beet or olives, or with little 
sprigs of parsley. 

Spinach Coloring 

This natural coloring is very easily made and is very 
good for the purpose. Pick and wash two handfuls of 
spinach, pound the leaves in a mortar to extract the juice; 
then press through a sieve and put the juice into a tiny 
stewpan or double boiler. Let it come to almost boiling 
point, but do not let it boil. As soon as it is done place it 
in a sieve, so that all the water may drain from it; then 
the green will be ready for coloring. 



R.are Trifles for tHe Table 259 

Stuffed Tomato as a Garnish 

Select the small yellow or red tomatoes, allowing one 
for each portion. Put the tomatoes in boiling water for 
two minutes to remove the skin, remove a portion of the 
pulp, and fill with any appetizing mixture, such as dressed 
crab flakes, caviar, celery, cucumber, or use simply the 
tomato pulp dressed with mayonnaise. 

Spanish Relish for Salad Course 

Porto de Menzanas, a Spanish dish to use with the salad 
course — Cream together a quarter of a pound of Roquefort 
cheese and a third as much fresh butter, add a teaspoon 
of Worcestershire sauce and a dessertspoon of chutney 
syrup and mix all into a smooth paste, adding, if necessary, 
a little sweet cream if the paste is too heavy. Peel, core, 
and slice the round way enough russet apples to allow two 
slices to a portion, spread them with the paste, dust with 
paprika, and serve. These are specially good with the 
alligator pear salad. 

Curry Powder 

One ounce each of ginger, mustard, and pepper, three 
ounces of coriander, one of tumeric, one half an otmce of 
cardamom and one quarter each of Cayenne pepper and 
cummin seed. Pound all well and sift fine, cork tight in a 
bottle, and use one teaspoon to flavor a sauce with. 

Some Salad Garnishes 

Among the prettiest salad garnishes are the young beet 
leaves in the soft reds and greens, combined with nasturtium 
flowers and buds in the different shaded yellows. Line 
the salad bowl with the leaves, put in the salad and add 
the flowers around the edge against the leaves and put a 
bunch in the center. The beet and carrot roses cut with a 



26o R.are Trifles for the Table 

tiny vegetable cutter make good garnishes with parsley. 
The boiled egg rings and the green pepper rounds are eflEec- 
tive, especially with fish. Grape leaves are pretty to serve 
small fruits on in a deep saucer. Strips of angelica, citron, 
candied fruits, and fresh flowers are used for the sweet 
garnishes. 

Meat Glaze 

Dissolve a half ounce of powdered gelatine in one cup 
of hot water, add one heaping teaspoon of a good meat 
extract, a saltspoon of salt, and a saltspoon of pepper. 
Cook down until it coats a spoon or for about ten minutes; 
then pour into a jar and keep tightly covered in a cold place. 
When wanted for use place the jar in a larger vessel of hot 
water until it has dissolved; coat the meat lightly with the 
glaze, using a brush. This is especially suitable for cold 
tongue, ham, pressed meats, or game. If desired, a few 
drops of red coloring may be added to the glaze to give it a 
more brilliant appearance. 

To Brown Flour 

Take a cup of wheat flour and spread it evenly on a 
smooth jelly cake tin, set it in a moderate oven, and as it 
dries stir it carefully and watch it until it gets the proper 
shade of dark brown, but do not upon any account allow the 
flour to scorch, as that ruins the flavor. While it is in the 
oven stir it often enough to keep the color even and when 
done turn it into a wide-mouthed jar and cover tightly. 
This will color gravies while thickening them and is much 
richer than the white flour. 

To Dry Sage 

When drying sage for winter use it is well to pick it 
the day after a good rain and after the sun has dried off the 
leaves. Strip the leaves from the stalks, dry them carefully 



R.are Trifles for tKe Table 261 

on sheets of white blotting paper, and when fairly dry place 
in a cooling oven at night to finish them. Then pack away 
in airtight jars, powdering for the flavor only as many as 
are needed at a time. 

Ftosted Holly Leaves 

Select fresh sprays of holly, pick the leaves from the 
stalks, wipe the leaves dean, then place them on a pan near 
the fire to get thoroughly dry, but do not allow them to 
shrivel. Then dip them into melted butter, sprinkle them 
with coarsely powdered sugar, and then dry them before the 
fire, pack in wax-paper lined box, and store in a dry place. 
These leaves make very pretty winter garnishes. 

Home Stuffed Olives 

Stuffed olives are accounted among the table delicacies 
and are rather expensive to use freely on the at-home menu. 
They are also restricted to four or five fillings, the better 
known of these being pimento, celery, blanched almond, 
anchovy, and a smaller olive; but at home many other fill- 
ings are possible and if one is equipped with an olive- 
pitting machine the olives may be prepared simply and 
easily to receive the various fillings. 

There are three excellent varieties of olives that come in 
bottles and in bulk, these being the French olives from 
Provence, the Spanish Olives, and the Italian olives from the 
city of Lucca. California olives, too, are v^iy fine and 
may be favorably compared with the best European ones. 

The fresh olives put up in oil are fast coming into general 
favor for use in salads, sauces, and relishes, and are well 
liked by most people who have tried them; but the olive 
most generally liked is the one put up in the slightly salted 
brine, the largest variety of which is the best to buy for 
at-home stuflBng, this usually being the Spanish olive, its 
slightly bitter taste adds a certain distinctive flavor that 
combines well with any sort of stuffing. 



26a R^re Trifles for tHe Table 

When ready to stuff olives for any special occasion take 
from the bottle, or from the crock if tiiey have been pur- 
chased in bulk, as many as are needed for the occasion and 
rinse them in cold water. Next pit them with the olive 
pitter and drop them into cold water to firm them while 
preparing the stuffing. The most convenient instrument 
for the stuffing of olives is the little silver marrow fork. 
After the olives are stuffed, they should be laid between 
lettuce leaves and kept very cold so that they do not dry 
out. 

To serve with chicken salad, the olives are very good when 
stuffed with sardine paste, well seasoned ; with red peppers 
and lemon juice, or with pdAS de fois gras, a few drops of 
onion juice, a saltspoon of mignonette pepper, and a tea- 
spoon of chutney syrup. 

To serve with lobster salad the olives may be stuffed 
with a filling made of a little crab meat, to which a little 
chopped red pepper and a chopped gherkin, pepper and 
salt to taste, and enough mayonnaise to make a paste have 
been added ; or they may be stuffed with a little cream cheese 
which has had half the amount of Roquefort cheese added 
to it, with enough French dressing to make a smooth paste 
and a few very finely chopped pecan nuts. 

To use stuffed oUves with a fruit salad, fill them with a 
paste made of cream cheese and orange marmalade, enough 
sweet cream being used to bring the paste to the proper 
consistency; or cream cheese with chopped pecan nuts 
and honey enough to make a paste will be found excellent. 

For the vegetable salad steam open six clams, chop them 
fine and drain, add to them a little chopped red pepper and 
a teaspoon of fried bread cnnnbs, also enough mayonnaise 
to bind the mixture into a paste; or the olives may be 
stuffed with dry grated cheese moistened with a little apple 
sauce. 

A novel breakfast dish will be found in olive tarts. The 
tart shells are made of pie crust and are large enough to 
hold four olives each. The olives are stuffed with well- 



R.are Trifles for tKe Table ^63 

seasoned sausage meat, then laid in the shells, dusted with 
pepper, salt, a teaspoon of fine bread crumbs, a teaspoon of 
grated cheese, and a tablespoon of English brown sauce. 
Bake the tarts in a moderate oven tmtil the crust is done 
and then serve them on a hot platter garnished with fresh 
cress and sliced broiled potatoes. 

A good luncheon dish is made of the olives stuffed with 
a little red pepper and minced chicken which has been made 
to a paste by adding a little whipped cream. Now drain 
and halve one can of button mushrooms, fry them a delicate 
brown in butter, have ready a pint of English brown sauce, 
put the olives into it, and let them simmer gently until 
tender. Then add the fried mushroontis, have ready one 
small loaf of baker's bread carefully hollowed out, leaving 
the top to serve as a cover, whole. A bow of ribbon may 
be drawn through this and tied on top to serve as a handle. 
Into this bread shell turn the olive and mushroom mixture, 
put on the cover, and garnish with lemon quarters and 
parsley. 

Another good luncheon dish is made by stuffing the olives 
with a little finely minced cold roast beef, to which a little 
grated onion has been added, with pepper, salt, and a tea- 
spoon of chutney syrup. Stew the olives gently, after 
stuffing them, in a pint of rich red stock. When they are 
done take them out with a skimmer and lay them on a hot 
plate; then slip into the stock a few thin slices of cold roast 
beef; when these are hot and have boiled up once, take them 
up with a fork and lay them on a hot platter, turn the 
olives over them, slightly thicken the gravy and turn it 
over all. Garnish the dish with toast sippets and parsley, 
and fried sweet potatoes. 

Olives enter into the making of many different cooked, 
as well as uncooked, sauces. If they are to be used for a 
cooked sauce, however, it is a good idea to cook them first 
in fair water until they are tender, which is usually from 
eighteen to twenty-five minutes with the stones in, and 
generally about fifteen when they have been stoned before 



264 R.are Trifles for tHe Table 

cooking. The olives do not lose their color in boiling in 
fair water if left uncovered and ^^ept boiling constantly. 
The water should be changed twice during the boiling to 
remove the salty brine taste. Olives stoned, then boiled 
in this way, may be carefully drained and added to a rich 
cream sauce into which six truffles have been sliced and 
served as a vegetable with broiled sweetbreads. They will 
be quite a relief from the ever-present green peas. 



# 



VEGETABLES 

To have plenty of fresh, properly cooked vegetables on 
the home table is a piece of economy as well as an adjunct 
to good health not to be lightly considered. 

First, the vegetables must be good, fresh, and up to the 
season's standard. Second, they must be clean, for nothing 
is as bad or inexcusable as insufficiently washed roots or 
green stuff. Those destined to cook in boiling water should 
be put in boiling and not tepid water. Those that are to 
be cooked in cold water need not stay in cold water all day 
on the back of the stove so as to be ready, getting sodden 
and flabby, although thinly sliced potatoes for frying are 
better to stand in cold water for a while to remove the starch 
from them, as they fry better. 

Some vegetables are decidedly medicinal in their quali- 
ties. Take the asparagus, for instance; it always has been 
looked upon as diuretic, containing albimiin and some 
salts, also a substance similar to sago. Beans and peas 
are considered quite as nutritious as meat. Endive, 
chicory, and other lettuces are considered the best possible 
solvents of Ijile. The cucumber and melon families have 
the laxative properties, while the celery is the nervine. 
Carrots and spinach bring the iron to the blood and dear 
the complexion. Horseradish is a great spring stimulant 
to the stomach and forms the basis of a number of tonics, 
tinctures, and sjrrups. The onion contains volatile oil, 
sulphur, albumin, phosphoric acid, and lime; boiled they are 
most apt to agree with the general stomach, though raw 

and fried they are also popular, and baked are very tasty. 

265 



266 Vegetables 

They form the basis of many flavorings and are excellent 
for the liver and the skin. 

A few ideas along the line of what ^eflEect different foods 
have upon the system may help in choosing that which 
particularly suits the family needs. 

The parsnip is quite a nourishing vegetable and a meal 
made from it makes a palatable bread which when toasted 
is good for children and invalids. Next to the cereals 
the potato is the most valuable plant for the production of 
human food. Sea kale raised on the English and Irish 
shores is very light and easily digested and is a stimulant 
with the same properties as East Indian asparagus. The 
tomato used as an esculent is endowed with many properties 
of more or less value to the human system and has grown 
to be a great table staple, in sauces, soups, ketchup, and 
stews, and raw for salads. 

The native com has the same nutritive qualities that are 
contained in the asparagus and green peas. Truffles, 
mushrooms, and turnips seem to be of doubtful food value 
and the cabbage family comes under the same law, the cauli- 
flower being the most easily digested member of the family. 

Apples purify the blood, feed the brain, help to eliminate 
impurities from the system. They should be ripe when 
eaten, and may be scraped for Uttle children, who are not 
likely to masticate their food carefully enough. Bananas 
contain considerable phosphorus and are easily digested. 
They are specially good for mental workers. Chestnuts 
contain a large proportion of starch, and when boiled and 
sprinkled with salt are nutritious and easily digested. 
Dates and figs have many of the same properties, and are 
warming, nourishing, and sustaining, besides having laxative 
properties. 

Tomatoes are good for everyone inclined to a sluggish 
liver, as is endive, the famous bile destroyer. All the old 
superstitions as to their creating cancer and making rheu- 
matic conditions have been exploded. Strawberries contain 
phosphorus and iron, which make them particularly good 



Ve|(etable8 267 

for anaemic persons. Lettuce is purifying to the blood and 
soothing to the system. Celery has much the same effect 
upon the system. Spinach is rich in iron, and carrots 
and beets are most useftil in the diet manual. Htmianity 
should make a courtesy to the onion family as a whole, 
for each branch is of incalculable value in health insurance. 

It is claimed for the ordinary white or Irish potato that 
next to the cereals it is the most valuable plant for the pro- 
duction of htunan food. It is in the starch quality that the 
nutritive properties are contained, and there are few with 
whom they do not agree and who do not thrive on the 
liberal use of them as a daily food. 

Early spring asparagus cannot be used too freely by those 
who enjoy its flavor. It is one of nature's natural kid- 
ney physics. 

What substitute our best chefs and home cooks would 
use if suddenly deprived of the aromatic onion, which plays 
such a prominent part in savory dishes, is a problem. The 
onion, leek, garlic, and shalot belong to the same family 
and show many of the same traits, each throwing off an 
acrid and penetrating acid which brings tears to the eyes of 
the most cheerful cook during the operation of paring them. 

The onion is not only used as a vegetable, flavorer, and 
general cooking agent, but medicinally it is highly valued, 
the onion tea being a remedy for gaU stones and rheumatic 
troubles. The leek is used almost entirely as the soup and 
stew flavorer; garlic is used most sparingly, as it requires 
only a trifle to strongly flavor anything with which it comes 
in contact. The shalot being the tenderest is used in the 
so-called fancy dishes with the wine and cream sauces, but 
the onion is usable in a dozen or more independent dishes. 

It is well to remember that all green things that grow 
above ground should be cooked in water that must boil as 
they are added. The pot should not be covered or the 
vegetables lose their color. All the root crops may be put 
on in cold water and allowed to boil covered to make them 
tender. 



268 Vegetables 

Cabbage is not nearly as much used as it might be in the 
variation of our table vegetables. Prejudice has much 
to do with its non-appreciation by the family, though it is 
treasured below stairs. Perhaps its plebeian origin, coupled 
with its long association with corned beef, may have some- 
thing to do with the matter. However, it is time to separate 
it from the aforesaid beef and try it in some of the many 
good ways which have restored it, in a number of localities, 
to the home table. 

Of course, there is one fundamental rule governing the 
cooking of all vegetables — that when a vegetable is tender 
enough to be pierced easily by a fork, it is perfectly cooked 
and should be removed from the fire at once. Besides 
this general rule, however, which most women know, there 
are countless little rules which, if observed, will greatly 
enhance the flavor of certain vegetables. 

Beets, parsnips, ttimips, com, peas, and winter squash, 
for instance, must always have sugar in their seasoning — 
about twice as much as the quantity of salt. Squash is 
drier, and of better flavor, when baked or steamed. Onions 
are void of aU offense if parboiled for ten minutes with a 
level teaspoonf ul of ginger in the water, then boiled as usual 
in salted water. When they are cooked in this way, there 
is no odor in the house nor on the breath, and no indiges- 
tion is caused. They should be boiled fast, and tmcovered. 

All vegetables should be kept dry and cool. Lettuce 
and other things designed for salad use are the only ones 
that require close proximity to the ice, but it is better for 
them not to come in direct contact with it. 

For variety as the winter advances let the housekeeper 
try the dried vegetables. There are a number of them and 
with proper treatment they are quite a refreshing change 
from the canned things. Perhaps the navy beans are the 
oldest and best known acquaintances in the dried line, and 
there is nothing nicer for Sunday morning breakfast than a 
pot of properly baked "Boston baked beans." 

To be just right the beans should soak several hours, 



Vegetables 269 

then be boiled until they are tender, with a pinch of bicar- 
bonate o£ soda added to the water as they boil. When 
done place them in the deep dish or pot with a piece of 
pickled pork, well scored, in the center, a half cup of 
molasses, pepper, salt, then fill the dish with the liquor 
they were boiled in, cover, and bake for several hours. 
When nearly time to serve, uncover them and let them 
brown. The dried lima beans, after thoroughly soaking 
for several hours, may be boiled until tender, then served 
with a French sauce of melted butter, pepper, salt, a dash 
of sugar, and a tablespoon of vinegar. They also make a 
most excellent salad mixed with chopped nuts and green 
peppers, with a French dressing. 

The haricot and the red kidney beans are good soaked and 
boiled, then used with a cream dressing. Lentils are 
greatly in favor for broths and soup foundations or to add 
to the stock pot to give richness to it. The green or yellow 
split peas are well known and liked for soups and piu^es. 
The dried mushrooms are very handy for soups and sauces 
as well, and a half pound will do wonders in the hand of the 
experienced cook. Dried red peppers may be soaked in 
oHve oil for a while, then be quite in condition to stuff 
and bake or use in salads. 

Fileted Artichokes 

Use the Jerusalem artichokes. Pare and boil them until 
tender in dear water, cut in thick slices, roU in egg and fine 
crumbs, and fry a delicate brown. Serve garnished with 
lemon and parsley sauce. The sauce is made by melting 
one ounce of butter and stirring into it a half ounce of flour. 
When smooth, add a quarter of a pint of milk and stir 
until it boils, add a tablespoon of chopped parsley, dash of 
pepper and salt, and six drops of tarragon vinegar. 

Artichokes 

Take six artichokes, wash carefully, then plunge into a 
half gallon of boiling water containing a soup bunch, a 



270 Vegetables 

tablespoon of salt, and a teaspoon of pepper. Boil until 
a leaf may be easily pulled out, remove and drain them; 
serve in a napkin with melted butter or a rich white sauce. 

Time for cooking thirty minutes. Sufficient for six 
persons. 

Jerusalem Artichokes k la Tarragon 

Pare and boil fifteen medium-sized Jerusalem artichokes 
thirty minutes. When done put them in a hot covered 
dish and turn over them a sauce made of a half cup of 
melted butter to which add a teaspoon of lemon juice, a 
half saltspoon of red pepper, and a saltspoon of salt. Wash 
and strip the leaves from four stems of tarragon, chop the 
leaves fine, and add them to the sauce. Serve at once gar- 
nished with toast sippets. This should serve six people. 

Escalloped Aguacate (Alligator Pear) 

Pare, seed, and dice two pears and add to them one cup 
of fine cracker dust. Put in a buttered pudding dish, dust 
with a half saltspoon of pepper, a saltspoon of salt, a tea- 
spoon of sugar, and a grating of English cheese. Break two 
eggs into a cup of cream and pour all over the mixture. 
Bake a delicate brown in a medium oven. Bake thirty 
minutes. This should be sufficient for four people. 

Boiled Apples with Cream and Cheese Sauce 

Pare, core, and boil six large tart apples until tender 
when pierced with a straw. Drain and set them on a hot 
dish. Have ready a rich cream sauce, not too thick; add 
to it a tablespoon of sugar and a half cup of grated cheese. 
Pour the sauce over the apples and serve. 

Boiled Asparagus 

Wash and trim a btmch of fresh asparagus; tie the stalks 
with kitchen tape in as many small bundles as there are 



Vegetables 271 

portions to be served. Plunge them in a deep, rotind pot 
of boiling water that has a teaspoon of salt in it. The pot 
should be small enough around so that the asparagus stands 
up as it boils. The water should be kept one inch below 
the tops of the tips. In this way the fleshy stalks will boil 
tender, while the steam will cook the tips. When it has 
boiled twenty minutes it may be drained and served with 
butter, cream, or any other sauce liked. 

As boiled asparagus forms the basis for many dishes the 
boiling process, always the same, need not be spoken of 
again. 

Baked Asparagus and Lettuce 

Take four heads of firm lettuce, cut off the stalks and 
carefully remove the white centers, which may be used for 
salad. Have ready two cups of cold boiled asparagus 
tips. Put a portion in each lettuce head, with a saltspoon of 
pepper, a half teaspoon of salt, and a tablespoon of butter, 
and tie the lettuce firmly arotmd the top with kitchen tape. 
Place the heads in a deep baking pan and pour around them 
a cup of well seasoned red stock. Cover for ten minutes, 
until the lettuce is steamed; then remove the cover and 
let it cook ten minutes longer. Remove carefully from the 
pan with a long-handled skimmer; let the gravy boil down 
to one half, then add a very little thickening and half a cup 
of whipped cream; stir carefully and serve in a gravy boat 
with the lettuce, removing the kitchen tape just before 
the lettuce goes to the table. 

Asparagus SoufSfi 

Boil asparagus and rub through a sieve, add three well 
beaten eggs, a saltspoon of pepper, a half teaspoon of salt, 
and a half cup of nulk. Beat the nuxture thoroughly 
and fill buttered souffle dishes with it. Bake ten minutes. 
A little cheese may be grated over the top before baking. 
This is a good entree for stunmer use, served with tiny hot 



272 Vegetables 

bisctiits. Cauliflower may be used in the same way and 
makes an equally palatable dish. 

Asparagus au Gratin 

Boil asparagus tips until tender ; drain, and to two bunches 
of tips add half a cup of dried fine bread crumbs, a gill of 
cream, two tablespoons of melted butter, half a saltspoon 
of pepper, a saltspoon of salt, two tablespoons of grated 
sharp English cheese, and last the stiffly beaten white 
of one egg. Mix all together lightly and fill buttered baking 
shells; then bake a delicate brown. Bake fifteen minutes. 

Fried Aspaiagus 

Wash and boil a bunch of green asparagus until it is 
tender; drain and cool. Dip each stalk in egg and fine 
bread crtunbs, fry in hot fat, drain, and serve with broiled 
bluefish. 

Fried Red Bananas 

Peel and cut in half lengthways ripe red bananas; roll 
first in raw egg, then in fine crumbs, dust with pepper and 
salt, and fry a golden brown in deep fat like doughnuts. 
Drain and serve with a sauce made of three quarters of a 
cup of strained honey, the juice of three lemons, and a 
teaspoon of spiced S3rrup. 

Baked Bananas 

Pare enough bananas to allow one to a portion. Put 
them in a buttered pie plate with a generous lump on each, 
dust lightly with pepper and salt, and turn over them a half 
cup of honey and a quarter cup of boiling water. Cover 
and bake in the oven for fifteen minutes; uncover and bake 
until they are a delicate brown. 

Another way of baking the bananas is to take off a strip of 
the peel lengthways and then lay the bananas in a buttered 



Vegetables 273 

baking pan; pour into the top of each a little melted butter 
that has been seasoned with lemon juice and a teaspoon of 
chutney syrup. Let them bake for twenty minutes. When 
done they may be served in the shells, or be very easily 
removed from the skins and a little melted butter turned 
over each portion. 

Lima Beans 

Shdl two quarts of Lima beans and boil in fair water 
thirty minutes after they start to boiL Drain when cooked 
and shake over the fire to take away all the moisture, then 
add two tablespoons of butter, a half teaspoon of salt, a 
saltspoon of pepper, the juice of half a lemon, and a tea- 
spoon of sugar. Serve hot. 

Baked Uma Beans 

This dish of summer baked beans is very good and makes 
an added variety in the ways of serving them. Take two 
quarts of freshly shelled Lima beans and boil them in fair 
water until they are tender, then drain them and put them 
into a well-buttered baking dish with a four-inch square of 
pickled pork that is well scored in the center. Put in a 
half-cup of New Orleans molasses, a half-cup of melted 
butter, a saltspoon of pepper, a half teaspoon of salt, a 
tablespoon of finely chopped tarragon leaves, and a half-cup 
of the water that the beans were boiled in; cover and bake 
slowly for forty minutes, then uncover and allow them to 
brown. 

New Eng^d Baked Beans 

Take one quart of navy beans, wash and soak overnight; 
in the morning drain off the water, and set them to cook in 
hot water; allow them to boil until one is tender when 
pinched between the fingers. Butter a deep baking dish, 
or bean pot, and fill it with the beans, placing in the center 
It 



274 Vegetables 

a square of well scored pickled pork. Add a teaspoon of 
salt, a saltspoon of pepper, a cup of New Orleans molasses, 
and a cup of the water the beans were boiled in. Put the 
dish in the oven, cover, and let bake for one hour; then 
remove the cover and allow them to cook for an hour and a 
half longer. 

To Boil String Beans 

Wash, string, and cut in pieces one quart of string beans. 
Have ready a pot of boiling water with a little salt in it. 
Put in the beans, ad()ing them slowly so the water does not 
stop boiling; boil for forty-five minutes, then drain and 
season with a tablespoon of butter, a saltspoon of pepper, 
and a half teaspoon of salt. Turn them into the serving 
dish and strew over the top a heaping tablespoon of bread 
cnunbs that have been fried in butter and carefully drained. 

String Beans Cuban Style 

String, break, and boil tmtil tender one quart of string 
beans. When done, drain them and add a Itimp of butter, 
and a little chopped parsley, onion, and sweet pepper. 
Have ready fried some diced bacon or pickled pork, grate 
a little nutmeg over it, and add the juice of a sour orange; 
add this to the beans, pour all into a buttered baking dish, 
dust with paprika and a tablespoon of very fine bread 
crumbs, and bake a delicate brown. Bake fifteen minutes. 

Baked String Beans 

Carefully wash and string a generous quart of beans and 
cut them in small pieces; boil until tender, then drain per- 
fectly. Have ready two large cups of highly seasoned, 
strained, and smooth tomato sauce thickened to the con- 
sistency of strained honey; turn it into the beans, add a cup 
of bread cnmibs that have been fried in butter, pour all into 
a weU-buttered baking dish, dust a little Parmesan cheese 
over the top, and bake fifteen minutes. 



Vegetables 075 

Mexican Frijoles 

The frijoles are made of black beans that have been soaked 
overnight, then boiled with two tiny red peppers and 
two buds of garlic until the beans are tender enough to 
mash. They are then drained, mashed, seasoned, and 
shaped into small cakes, which are fried in olive oil. 

To Boil Beets 

To boil new beets after washing and leaving the stems 
three inches long, plunge them into boiling water and boil 
forty-five minutes. Then remove from the fire, pltmge them 
into cold water, and skin them quickly with the fingers. 
Serve in a hot dish with a butter sauce. 

Old beets will require three and a half hours steady^ 
hard boiling, otherwise they are prepared in the same way. 

Roasted Beets 

Wash young beets, trim, and lay them in a buttered pan 
in the oven; turn often as they cook but do not break the 
skin. When tender, skin, chop, and serve with a dressing 
made of melted butter, a saltspoon of pepper, a half teaspoon 
of salt, a teaspoon of sugar, and a little vinegar, or the juice 
of a lime. 

Escalloped Brussels Sprouts 

Trim and carefully wash a quart of Brussels sprouts, 
then boil them until tender in water to which a saltspoon 
of bicarbonate of soda has been added, boil briskly without 
covering them for thirty minutes. When done drain, then 
add one finely minced red pepper, small cup of fine crumbs, 
half-cup of grated cheese, one giU of melted butter, juice 
of an onion, a tablespoon of chutney syrup, a saltspoon of 
pepper, half teaspoon of salt, and one beaten egg. Fill 
large buttered ramekins with the mixture, and bake a deli- 



276 Vegetables 

cate brown. If desired, pepper shells may be used to hold 
the sprouts instead of the ramekins. 

Plain boiled sprouts are boiled in the same way; and are 
seasoned with butter, pepper, salt, and a few drops of lemon 
juice. 



To Boil a Cabbage 

Cut the heart out with a sharp knife and in its place put 
a red pepper; drop the cabbage into fast boiling water, 
adding a teaspoon of salt and a saltspoon of bicarbonate of 
soda. A medium cabbage should boil two hours. 

A chopped cabbage will boil in thirty minutes, and a 
new or savoy cabbage will boil in three quarters of an 
hour. 

Baked Cabbage 

Remove the heart and chop a cabbage fine. Sprinkle 
with salt, cover with water, and boil twenty-five minutes. 
Drain, put in a fiat pan, add a saltspoon of pepper, a half 
teaspoon of salt, a teaspoon of sugar, dot thickly with 
pieces of butter, pour over it a cup of cream, sprinkle with 
bread crtimbs and Parmesan cheese, and bake until brown. 

Stuffed Cabbage 

Take one head of firm cabbage and, with a sharp knife, 
take out the heart and some of the center. Have ready 
some good force meat made of a little sausage meat, crumbs, 
a minced onion, a half teaspoon of pepper, a saltspoon of 
salt, teaspoon of sugar, half -cup minced ham, and a gill of 
melted butter. Stuff the center of the cabbage and the 
leaves that may be turned back a trifle, then cover the top 
and half of the cabbage with a dough rolled out the same 
as for a roly-poly pudding. Tie closely in a floured cloth 
and boil two hours. When done, drain carefully and place 



Vegetables 277 

on the serving dish, with the crust underneath. Have ready 
a smooth tomato sauce to serve with the cabbage. 

Hot Cabbage Slaw 

Remove the heart and chop the cabbage. Put a piece of 
butter the size of a hen's egg into a saucepan, add a small 
cup of sugar, a saltspoon of pepper, a half teaspoon of salt, 
and a dessertspoon of dry mustard. Mix all, then add one 
beaten egg and last of all three quarters of a cup of vinegar 
with a quarter cup of water. Melt together, then let come 
to a boil, stirring all the time. When it thickens remove 
from the fire so it will not curdle, and add the cabbage a 
handful at a time, stirring until it is all moistened with 
the sauce. Set it where it is warm, but not directly over the 
fire, until needed. 

Red Cabbage 

Chop coarsely one red cabbage and put it into a large 
saucepan with six tart apples that have been pared, cored^ 
and sliced thinly. Cover with water and add a cup of 
vinegar. Cook until done — about two hours; then drain 
thoroughly. Season with a saltspoon of pepper, a level 
teaspoon of salt, a half-cup of sugar, a tablespoon of butter, 
and two tablespoons of tarragon vinegar. 

Red Cabbage in Claret 

Take a firm red cabbage, ptdl off the outside leaves and 
take out the heart, then chop fine. Put in a kettle with one 
bottle of table claret and boil gently until tender. Add a 
heaping tablespoon of butter, a saltspoon of pepper, a tea- 
spoon of salt, and sugar to taste — about a tablespoon; 
drain and serve hot. 

Colecannon 

Melt two tablespoons of butter in the saucepan, add a 
half tablespoon of Worcestershire sauce, a saltspoon of 



Q7^ Vegetables 

pepper, and a half teaspoon of salt ; add one cup of mashed 
potatoes and one cup of finely chopped boiled cabbage. 
Mix all together, press into a greased mold, and bake in, a 
hot oven for twenty minutes. Unmold on a hot dish and 
serve plain, or with a smooth tomato sauce. 

To Boil Carrots 

To boil new carrots scrape and plunge them into boiling 
water to which a teaspoon of salt is added and boil them for 
thirty-five minutes. Drain and serve with a butter or 
cream sauce. Old carrots must be boiled one hour. 

Stewed Canots 

Scrape, wash, and slice into equal slices six large carrots 
and boil as above; drain them well and put in a saucepan 
with a pint of rich stock, a lump of sugar, and when this 
is reduced to a glaze add a tablespoon of fresh butter, a 
half saltspoon of pepper, and a saltspoon of salt. Heat 
until the carrots have absorbed the sauce, and serve. 

To Boil Cauliflower 

Wash and trim a good head of cauliflower, plunge it into 
boiling water, add a teaspoon of salt, and let it boil thirty 
minutes. Remove, drain, and serve with a cream sauce, or 
any sauce liked. In boiling cauliflower use half milk 
and half water. This will give it a finer flavor and keep 
it white. Cooked in plain water, it takes on a grayish 
color. 

Norwegian Cauliflower 

Take one good head of cauliflower and wash it thoroughly ; 
with a sharp knife slice down in meditun slices and brush 
over each slice with egg, then dust lightly with flour and 
sprinkle with pepper and salt. Fry the slices a delicate 
brown in hot fat, drain, and arrange them neatly on a hot 



Vei^etables 279 

platter. Have ready a rich drawn-butter sauce, not too 
thick, and turn it over the slices, garnish the dish with 
lemon quiaxters and parsley. 

Creamed Celery 

Wash and cut into one-inch lengths three stalks of celery; 
plunge them into boiling water and boil for one hour; 
drain, and turn into a cream sauce. 

Celeriac with Tomato Dressing 

Celeriac, which is turnip-coated celery root, may be had 
three or four to the bunch on the vegetable stands. Pare 
and quarter them and boil until tender in slightly salted 
water. Add a finely chopped soup bunch and herbs to a 
large can of tomatoes; boil twenty minutes, strain, add a 
half teaspoon of salt, a saltspoon of pepper, a saltspoon of 
sugar, a tablespoon of Mandalay sauce, a few drops of 
kitchen bouquet, and thicken with butter and flour mixed 
to a paste. Pour over the celeriac and serve hot. 

To Boil Green Com on the Cob 

After husking and freeing from all silk plunge the ears 
into boiling water and boil for fifteen minutes. Drain and 
serve. Use no salt to toughen or yellow the com. 

Roast Com 

Boil as much sweet com as is needed, and just before serv- 
ing time put it on the toaster over hot coals and let it roast 
evenly. Butter, pepper, and salt it, and send to table hot 
in a napkin. Serve it as a course by itself so it may be 
fully enjoyed. 

Green Com Croquettes 

Take one quart of the grated green com, one cupful of 
sifted flour, one cupful of sweet milk, a lump of butter 



28o Vegetables 

the size of an egg, a saltspoonof pepper, and a half teaspoon 
of salt. Put all in a saucepan and stir hard, adding a 
teaspoon of sugar. Remove from the fire and let it cool, 
then add three-quarters of a cupful of dry bread crumbs 
and mould into croquettes. Dip them in egg and roll them 
in crumbs, then fry in hot lard. Drain, garnish with 
parsley and lemon, and serve. 

Com au Giatin 

Split and scrape a dozen ears and add a half-cupful of 
dry, fine bread crumbs, two tablespoons of grated cheese, 
two beaten eggs, small cupful of cream, a half saltspoon of 
pepper, a saltspoon of salt, a tablespoon of sugar; fill 
buttered ramekins with the mixture, dusting the top of 
each with a little grated cheese and bake. Bake thirty 
minutes. 

Com Fritters 

One-half pint grated com, half cupful of rich milk, half 
cupful of sifted flour, teaspoon of baking powder, a 
tablespoon of melted butter, a saltspoon of pepper, 
a half teaspoon of salt, a teaspoon of sugar, two beaten 
eggs. Mix the ingredients smoothly and fry in deep, hot 
fat. Drain, serve in a napkin with a little sliced lemon. 

Stuffed Cucumbers 

Pare, halve lengthways, and remove the seeds from 
enough cucumbers to allow a half one to each portion. 
Plunge them into boiUng water and boil for ten minutes or 
longer until they are tender, but do not allow them to get 
too much done ; drain, let slightly cool, then arrange them on 
a buttered baking pan and fill them with this stuffing: 
One cup of bread crumbs, half a cup of chopped chicken, 
half a cup of chopped pecan nuts, one chopped pepper, 
the juice of an onion, tablespoon of chutney syrup, gill of 



Vegetables 281 

melted butter, teaspoon of Worcestershire sauce, and one 
beaten egg. Dust lightly with a little grated cheese and 
bake a delicate brown. If the oven seems to dry them, 
baste them with a little melted butter to which the juice 
of half a lemon has been added. 

Deviled Cucumbers 

Pare, quarter, and take the seeds from six cucumbers, 
cut in inch lengths, drop into boiling water with a little 
salt in it, and boil six minutes. Drain and put a layer into a 
buttered baking dish, then a layer of fine crumbs, a sprink- 
ling of salt and pepper, a teaspoon of sugar, and a teaspoon 
of finely ground nut meats; continue until the quantity is 
used up, then pour over all a cupful of tomato sauce (not too 
thick), sprinkle with grated cheese, and bake a delicate 
brown. A little of the sauce may be kept to serve in a 
tureen if desired. The mixture may also be used in rame- 
kins. Bake thirty coinutes. 

Cucumbers k la P6ulette 

' Pare and slice three cucumbers and lay them in salt and 
vinegar for half an hour. Drain them in a doth and put 
them in two ounces of butter in a stewpan, saut6 them but 
do not brown them. Dredge over them some flour and add 
a half pint of white stock, a teaspoonful of minced parsley, 
a saltspoon of salt,ahalf saltspoonof pepper, and a teaspoon 
of sugar. Let boil slowly until the gravy is a bit reduced, 
then stir in the yolks of two eggs; let come to boiling point 
and serve. 

Fried Cucumbers 

Pare three cucumbers, cut them in lengthway slices, dry 
them, and dip them into yolk of egg, dust with fine cracker 
dust, fry in deep, hot fat; drain and serve in a napkin. 



28o Vegetables 

the size of an egg, a saltspoonof pepper, and a half teaspoon 
of salt. Put all in a saucepan and stir hard, adding a 
teaspoon of sugar. Remove from the fire and let it cool, 
then add three-quarters of a cupful of dry bread crumbs 
and mould into croquettes. Dip them in egg and roll them 
in crumbs, then fry in hot lard. Drain, garnish with 
parsley and lemon, and serve. 

Com au Giatin 

Split and scrape a dozen ears and add a half-cupful of 
dry, fine bread crumbs, two tablespoons of grated cheese, 
two beaten eggs, small cupful of cream, a half saltspoon of 
pepper, a saltspoon of salt, a tablespoon of sugar; fill 
buttered ramekins with the nwxture, dusting the top of 
each with a little grated cheese and bake. Bake thirty 
minutes. 

Com Fritters 

One-half pint grated com, half cupful of rich milk, half 
cupful of sifted flour, teaspoon of baking powder, a 
tablespoon of melted butter, a saltspoon of pepper, 
a half teaspoon of salt, a teaspoon of sugar, two beaten 
eggs. Mix the ingredients smoothly and fry in deep, hot 
fat. Drain, serve in a napkin with a Uttle sliced lemon. 

Stuffed Cucumbers 

Pare, halve lengthways, and remove the seeds from 
enough cucumbers to allow a half one to each portion. 
Plunge them into boiling water and boil for ten minutes or 
longer imtil they are tender, but do not allow them to get 
too much done; drain, let slightly cool, then arrange them on 
a buttered baking pan and fill them with this stuffing: 
One cup of bread crumbs, half a cup of chopped chicken, 
half a cup of chopped pecan nuts, one chopped pepper, 
the juice of an onion, tablespoon of chutney syrup, gill of 



Vegetables 281 

melted butter, teaspoon of Worcestershire sauce, and one 
beaten egg. Dust lightly with a little grated cheese and 
bake a delicate brown. If the oven seems to dry them, 
baste them with a little melted butter to which the juice 
of half a lemon has been added. 



Cucumbers 



Pare, quarter, and take the seeds from six cucumbers, 
cut in inch lengths, drop into boiling water with a little 
salt in it, andboil six minutes. Drain and put a layer into a 
buttered baking dish, then a layer of fine cnunbs, a sprink- 
ling of salt and pepper, a teaspoon of sugar, and a teaspoon 
of finely ground nut meats; continue until the quantity is 
used up, then pour over all a cupful of tomato sauce (not too 
thick), sprinkle with grated cheese, and bake a delicate 
brown. A little of the sauce may be kept to serve in a 
tureen if desired. The mixture may also be used in rame- 
kins. Bake thirty xninutes. 

Cucumbers k la Poulette 

' Pare and slice three cucumbers and lay them in salt and 
vinegar for half an hour. Drain them in a cloth and put 
them in two ounces of butter in a stewpan, saut6 them but 
do not brown them. Dredge over them some flour and add 
a half pint of white stock, a teaspoonftil of minced parsley, 
a saltspoon of salt,ahalfsaltspoonof pepper, and a teaspoon 
of sugar. Let boil slowly until the gravy is a bit reduced, 
then stir in the yolks of two eggs; let come to boiling point 
and serve. 

Fried Cucumbers 

Pare three cucumbers, cut them in lengthway slices, dry 
them, and dip them into yolk of egg, dust with fine cracker 
dust, fry in deep, hot fat; drain and serve in a napkin. 



282 Vegetables 

Dandelion 

Take two quarts of the fresh young dandelion greens, 
wash and boil in salted water; when done, drain, chop fine, 
add the juice of half a lemon, three otmces of butter, and 
a saltspoon of pepper and a half teaspoon of salt. Garnish 
with hard-boiled eggs sliced. 

Endive 

Wash carefully six head of endive, remove the green part 
and plxmge into boiling water for ten minutes, then drain 
and chop very fine. Then put in a stewpan with a pint 
of good stock, a saltspoon of pepper, a half teaspoon of salt, 
and a tablespoon of sugar, and boil until tender. Add a 
thickening of butter and flour and a tablespoon of lemon 
jtiice. Let the sauce boil up and serve. 

Panned Escarole 

Panned escarole will be found daintier than spinach. 
After the white centers have been removed for salad, wash 
thoroughly the green outside leaves, cutting them from the 
stalk and boil them in fair water, adding a pinch of bicar- 
bonate of soda. Boil until tender, drain, chop fine, drain 
again as dry as possible, add a tablespoon of butter,* a 
saltspoon of pepper, a half teaspoon of salt, two tablespoons 
of vinegar, and serve, garnished with white egg rings. 

To Fry Eggplant 

Select one firm eggplant, cut it in thick slices, and let 
them soak in salted water for two hours. Drain, dip them 
in beaten eggs and fine bread crumbs, and fry in hot fat 
until a delicate brown. 

Bombay Eggplant 

Cut an eggplant in halves, lengthways. With a sharp 
knife or an orange spoon remove the pulp, leaving an 



Vegetables 283 

eighth of an inch all around to protect the skin. Chop the 
pulp fine, adding one green pepper, a Uttle celery, and three 
tomatoes, also chopped fine. Add a cup of bread crumbs, 
a saltspoon of pepper, a half teaspoon of salt, a dessertspoon 
of grated cheese, and a tablespoon of chutney syrup. Fill 
the eggplant shells with the mixture, set them in a buttered 
baking pan, turn around them a cupful of vegetable stock 
and bake until tender, about thirty minutes. When done, 
serve with a smooth tomato sauce garnished with potato 
croquettes. 

Eggplant au Gratin 

Cut the eggplant in thick slices, let Ue in cold salt water 
until ready for use, boil in dear water imtil tender, for 
perhaps fifteen minutes, or less, then place in well buttered 
baking pan and on top of each lay a thick slice of tomato, 
sprinkling over them a mixture of fine bread crumbs, a 
sprinkling of salt and pepper, a saltspoon of sugar, a little 
grated cheese, and, putting a Itunp of butter on the top of 
each, bake in a medium oven. 

Turkish Eggplant 

Wash, pare, and chop two eggplants; put a pound of rare 
mutton through the meat chopper, mix this with the egg- 
plant and add a chopped onion with a little chopped pars- 
ley ; put all in a buttered baking dish and add a gill of butter, 
half a cup of bread crumbs, and turn over it enough rich 
tomato sauce to fill the dish; dust the top with a Uttle grated 
cheese, and bake an hour, or more if need be. 

Greens 

Take young and tender beet greens, wash and boil in 
salted water. When done, drain and chop fine and heat in 
three ounces of butter, a saltspoon of pepper, and a half 
teaspoon of salt and three tablespoons of vinegar, and 
serve hot. 



284 Vegetables 

Kohlrabi 

Pare, cut in quarters two bunches of kohlrabi, boil in 
salted water until tender, about thirty minutes; drain and 
cover with a rich drawn butter to which a tablespoon of 
fried bread crumbs has been added. 

Leeks 

Wash and cut in small pieces six leeks, boil until tender, 
about thirty minutes, throwing oflE the water several times, 
drain, add one tablespoon of fried bread crumbs, a table- 
spoon of minced parsley, and cover with melted butter. 
Add a little lemon juice, pepper, and salt. Serve hot. 

Mushrooms 

The cultivated mushroom may be easily distinguished 
from the poisonous fungi by its delicate pink or flesh-colored 
gills on the under side and by its agreeable nutty odor 
which the toadstools have not. When they are young they 
are button-shaped, the stalk and head being white, and as 
they grow they expand into a flat lunbrella shape and get 
pink underneath, slowly turning to dark brown, even 
blackish in appearance. All the poisonous varieties are 
brown, have a rank and putrid odor, and are different in 
flesh texttu'e. 

The edible kind are found during August, Sefptember, 
and October in rich pasture land, but are seldom found in 
the woods where the poisonous variety abound. It is 
announced on scientific authority that there are over fifty 
kinds of edible mushrooms, among which there is one 
bright red one. Generally speaking the mushroom is 
difficult of digestion and has but little nourishment in it. 

Locality has great influence on the nature of the juices 
in the mushroom, and it has been discovered that some 
species, while harmless when growing young in pasttu^ 



Ve|(etables 285 

and meadow, become quite poisonous when grown in 
contact with stagnant water. 

The silver spoon test is a pretty safe one for the city 
housekeeper to rely on. If the spoon remains bright after 
plunging it into the heart of the mushroom it is all right, 
but if it turns black the fungus is poisonous. All those 
that are marketed in the city nowadays are from most 
reliable sources and inspected under the laws covering the 
sale of pure products regulated by licenses. The canned 
ones are usually dependable, but those in glass are even 
better. The Italian grocers carry the dried mushrooms 
at one dollar a pound, which are most excellent for soups 
and sauces, if properly washed and prepared. There is a 
mushroom powder that is also good in sauces, and a mush- 
room ketchup which is highly favored by our English 
cousins, but is not as well known on this side of the water. 

Ftesh Miishiooms Fried in Butter 

Wash carefully one pound of umbrella mushroom flaps, 
removing the stalks, dry them on a cloth, and fry them in 
butter, turning two or three times. Chop the stalks, 
saut6 them in a Uttle butter which has had added to it a 
teaspoon of lemon juice, a half teaspoon of onion juice, a 
saltspoon of salt, and a half saltspoon of red pepper. When 
the flaps are fried arrange them on slices of toast; add a 
teaspoon of chutney syrup to the saut6, and turn it over 
the mushrooms. 

Mushroom Pat6s 

Take one large can of button mushrooms and one medium- 
sized can of mushroom flaps; drain and saut6 them in 
butter, adding a half saltspoon of pepper, a saltspoon of 
salt, one chopped Spanish pepper, two finely minced shalots, 
and a teaspoon of chutney syrup. Have ready a pint of 
mediimi cream sauce ; drain and add the mushroom mixture 



286 Vegetables 

to it, using a little of the butter saut^ if it does not thin the 
sauce too much. Turn into hot patty shells and serve. 

Mushrooms k la Bordelaise 

Clean large freshly gathered mushroom flaps, peel them, 
and lightly score on the under side. Place them in an 
earthen dish with a half pint of melted butter, a saltspoon 
of pepper, a saltspoon of salt, and let them renmin in this 
for two hours; then drain them and broil on a buttered 
broiler, serving them on hot plates, with a gravy made of 
the melted butter with the juice of an onion, a teaspoon of 
minced parsley, juice of a lemon, and a tablespoon of tomato 
ketchup. Wipe the spoon with which the gravy is stirred 
with a bud of garlic. 

Mushrooms under Glass 

Peel and remove the stems from a half pound of fresh 
mushrooms. Saut^ them slightly in butter, add a half 
saltspoon of pepper and a saltspoon of salt. Toast as many 
slices of bread as are needed, cut in rounds, and place in the 
dishes; cover with the mushrooms and bake them under the 
glass bells for fifteen or twenty minutes; serve hot and 
covered. A little hot cream may be added if desired. 

Mushrooms in Baked Spanish Onions 



Hollow out the centers of as many onions as there are 
portions to be served. Drain one can of button mush- 
rooms, cut or chop in small pieces, add a tablespoon of 
bread crumbs, a tablespoon of finely chopped celery, a 
tablespoon of melted butter, a tablespoon of cream, a table- 
spoon of grated cheese, a teaspoon of chopped parsley. 
Fill the onions with the mixture, dust with pepper and 
salt, put a lump of butter on top of each, and set the onions 
in a buttered baking dish; cover, bake thirty minutes, 
remove the cover, and brown. 



Ve|(etable8 287 

ONIONS 

To Boil Onions 

Pare and boil one quart of Bermuda onions until tender 
when pierced with a fork (about forty minutes), drain, and 
serve with a sauce of a half cup of melted butter, a saltspoon 
of salt, a half saltspoon of pepper, a teaspoon ot sugar, and 
six drops of lemon juice. Or the onions after boiling may 
be served in a cream sauce. 

To Fty Onions 

Slice two or three Spanish onions thin. Melt a heaping 
tablespoon of butter in the frying pan, put in the onions, 
dust with pepper and salt, and a dessertspoon of sugar. 
Cover tightly over a meditmi fire. Shake often until the 
onions are melted down and steamed soft, about ten minutes, 
then take ofiE the cover and stir until they are a golden 
brown. 

Baked Spanish Onions 

Take four Spanish onions and with a sharp knife cut out 
some of their centers; do not pare them, but boil in salted 
water one hour; take them out, dry them, and stuff them 
with a tablespoon of grated cheese, half gill melted butter, 
a saltspoon of pepper, and a half teaspoon of salt. Bake 
in a moderate oven. When done they may be eaten from 
the skin or the outer skin removed and a rich brown gravy 
poured over them. 

Onion Pie 

Peel and boil a quart of onions until tender, drain them 
carefully, break them with a silver fork, and saut6 them in 
butter, letting color slightly. Have ready a deep pie plate 
lined with good crust. When the onions are a bit cool add 



288 Vegetables 

to them a tablespoon of sugar, a saltspoon of pepper, and a 
half teaspoon of salt, a cup of cream, and two eggs beaten in 
a small cup of milk. Turn into the pie plate, add the top 
crust, and bake until the crust is fully done. Serve hot with 
a meat dinner and cut in squares instead of the wedge- 
shaped pieces of dessert pie. 

After peeling onions, rub a stalk of celery over the hands 
and it will remove the odor. If a stain remains, lemon juice 
or tomato skins will take it oflE. 

Onion Fritters 

Make a good batter as for clam or apple fritters. Grate 
one large onion, season it with a half saltspoon of cayenne 
pepper, a saltspoon of salt, and a quarter of a teaspoon 
of powdered sugar. Add to the batter and fry the fritters 
in hot deep fat a delicate brown and drain in the usual way. 
Serve in a napkin with parsley and lemon thinly sliced for 
garnish. 

Puffs 



Make a good puff paste or light, flaky pie crust, roll thin, 
and cut it into sqtiares. Take as many white onions as there 
are to be guests and boil them in fair water until they com- 
mence to grow tender. Remove, drain, and let cool, then 
carefully cut out the centers, and fill the space with half 
of a country sausage, a teaspoon of butter, one half salt- 
spoon of pepper, the same amount of salt, fold each into a 
pastry square, adding as much tomato dressing as it will 
hold. Bake in a moderate oven. When done serve 
individually with the tomato sauce, to which a grating 
of Parmesan cheese may be added. Garnish with thinly 
sliced green pepper. 

Scalloped Onions 

Boil eight large onions and, when they are tender but 
not too much done, remove and drain them carefully. 



Ve{(etables 289 

Place them in a well buttered baking dish, put a half gill of 
melted butter, a saltspoon of pepper, and a half teaspoon of 
salt on each, and add a dusting of fine crumbs, Parmesan 
cheese, and a little sugar. Beat two eggs into a pint of milk 
and turn it around the onions. Bake imtil the custard 
is set and the top is delicately browned. 

To Boil Parsnips 

Wash, trim, and pare as many parsnips as are needed to 
allow one of medium size to each person. Boil in fair 
water until tender. If the parsnips are new, boil thirty-five 
minutes, if old, an hour. When done, drain, slice, and serve 
with a cream sauce; or, when the parsnips are cold dip the 
slices in egg and cracker cnunbs and fry a delicate brown. 

Smofhered Parsnips 

Fry a slice of salt pork in a kettle, then put in a cup and a 
half each of diced parsnips and potatoes and season with 
a level teaspoon of salt and a saltspoon of pepper. Make a 
rich biscuit dough and lay over the vegetables with a hole in 
the center through which pour one pint of rich stock. Cover 
the pot, let cook for half an hour, and serve. This is a 
most tmusual recipe and the dish will be found an agreeable 
change from everyday dishes. 

Parsnip Cones 

Boil three good sized parsnips and mash them very fine. 

Add to this a half cup of grated pineapple, a tablespoon of 

butter, a saltspoon of pepper, a half teaspoon of salt, a 

half saltspoon of grated nutmeg, a teaspoon of sugar, one 

egg, a teaspoon of good sherry, and a tablespoon of cream. 

Add enough cracker dust to form them into little cones, and 

fry in very hot lard. Serve in a napkin garnished with 

watercress. 
19 



290 Vegetables 

Green Parsley 

Parsley can be made a brilliant green by putting it, after 
it is chopped, into a doth, then dipping it into cold water 
and wringing it tightly in the fingers. If the garden parsley 
looks as if it were going to seed, pick it after a good rain 
and place it on sheets of heavy paper in a cooling oven to 
dry; when dry, powder it and put it in wide-mouthed bottles, 
corking it well. It will remain quite green and will do for 
aU seasoning purposes as well as the fresh parsley. 

Hopping John 

Boil one cup of cow peas with a piece of bacon. When 
the peas are thoroughly done, but not mushy, drain the 
water off. At the same time boil separately a cup and a 
half of rice. When done mix together. Skim off grease 
from the top of the pot the peas were boiled in. Put over 
the mixture pepper and salt. Put in the oven to dry out 
and serve around fried sausages. 

To Stew or Boil Fresh Peas 

Shell the green peas, wash in cold water, drain, then put 
them into fast boiling water to which add a teaspoon of 
salt and a saltspoon of sugar. Let them boil briskly un- 
covered. If the peas are young ten to fifteen minutes' 
cooking will be suflSdent; if they are large, marrowfat 
peas, cooking will take eighteen to twenty-four minutes, 
if they are old peas, a half an hour. When done drain, 
place in a hot vegetable dish, add a lump of butter the 
size of a walnut, a saltspoon of salt, a half saltspoon of 
pepper, and^a teaspoon of sugar. 

Fresh young pea pods should be washed and carefully 
steamed, and when very tender rubbed through a colander 
and added to the vegetable soup stock, as they give the 
stock both flavor and body. 



Vegetables 191 

Green Pea Cutlets 

Take one quart of fresh green peas and after boiling in 
the usual way pass them through the pur^e sieve. Add 
to the pulp three quarters of a cup of dry bread crumbs, a 
saltspoon of salt, a half saltspoon of pepper, a tablespoon of 
melted butter, a dessertspoon of sugar, and one egg. Add a 
teaspoon of finely chopped mint leaves and a half teaspoon 
of onion juice; shape the mixture into cutlets after mixing 
weU, dip them in egg, dust with bread crtimbs, and fry. 
Serve with the cutlets a good, smooth tomato sauce. 

PEPPERS 

As baking shells, the bull-nosed green or red peppers 
have no peer, for if they are not overcooked and are rightly 
prepared they never lose their shape or spill their contents 
while baking. Peppers thinly cut into strips lengthways 
and carefully fried in butter make a good edible garnish to 
serve around a platter of cutlets with a smooth tomato 
sauce poured in the center. 

Stuffed Green Peppers 

Cut the stem end from the peppers and remove the seed 
cones. Have ready a mixture made of one cup of sausage 
meat, a finely minced onion, a half cup of finely chopped 
mushrooms, a half cup of bread crumbs, a saltspoon of 
pepper, a half teaspoon of salt, a tablespoon of chutney 
syrup, and a teaspoon of chopped chives. Place the peppers 
in a well buttered baking dish, after stuffing them and 
tying on the covers, and potir around them enough good 
brown gravy to half fill the dish. Bake thirty minutes 
and serve. This mixture will fill four large pepper shells. 

Egyptian Stuffed Peppers 

Cut around the stem end of a fresh green pepper and 
draw out the seed cone. Take a half pound of chopped 



292 Ve|(etable8 

raw beef, add to it three quarters of a cup of bread crumbs, 
a tablespoon of butter, a saltspoon of pepper, a half teaspoon 
of salt, a little grated onion, and a beaten egg. Stuff the 
pepper shell with this mixture, roll in olive oil, and fry. 
This amount of stuffing will fill three good sized peppers. 

Apple Peppers 

Take two cups of smooth apple sauce, add to it one cup 
of bread crumbs that have been fried in butter and drained, 
two tablespoons of grated English cheese, a tablespoon of 
chopped walnut meats, and a teaspoon of chopped tarragon 
leaves. Bake until the pepper shell is tender, and serve 
as an edible garnish with roast pork. The pepper shells 
must be carefully washed and the seed cone removed before 
they are filled for baking and they may be halved or 
whole according to fancy. 

Macedoine Peppers 

Take a small bottle of macedoine vegetables, drain 
them, and add to them a small cup of bread crumbs, a 
half gill melted butter, a half saltspoon of pepper, a salt- 
spoon of salt, six sliced truffles, juice of an onion, one beaten 
egg, and enough sweet cream to bind the mixture. Fill 
the peppers after smearing them inside thinly with p^t^- 
de-foie-gras. Bake for twenty ndnutes. This will fill four 
peppers. 

Boiled Peppers 

Carefully open some large smooth peppers and remove 
the seeds, stuff them with loose leaves of cabbage coarsely 
chopped, a liunp of butter, a pinch of salt; tie together with 
kitchen tape and drop into boiling water. Boil one hour, 
drain thoroughly, remove the tape, pour over them a rich 
cream sauce and serve. 



Vegetables 293 

Baiiaxia Peppers 

Cut three big green peppers in halves and remove the 
seed cones, arrange them on a buttered tin, and fill them with 
the following mixture. Mash three ripe bananas, add a 
half cup of sugar, a teaspoon of salt, a gill of melted butter, a 
tablespoon of chutney syrup, a tablespoon of chopped 
pecan nuts, half a cup of bread crumbs that have been 
fried in butter, a half cup of dry crumbs, and a beaten egg. 
Fill the peppers with the mixture, dust the top of each 
with grated Parmesan cheese and a little paprika. Bake 
until the peppers are tender but do not let them lose their 
shape. If they cook a little dry, baste with a little melted 
butter. 

POTATOES 

Potatoes are a vegetable that may be served in a vast 
number of ways, being adapted to more uses than any of the 
other vegetables in use on the daily menu, and next to 
cereals they are considered the most valuable plant for the 
production of human food. In Saxony the potatoes are 
used boiled and beaten with sour milk to make a wonderful 
cheese, which if kept in closed vessels keeps for a number 
of years. 

If using old potatoes they should be carefully sprouted 
and spread out on a platform or large tray in a cool room 
or cellar so that they do not vegetate or soften. Some house- 
keepers still use potato yeast and others use the mashed 
potato in their bread. Old potatoes are best boiled with 
the skins on, then drained, dried, pared, and served with 
butter and chopped parsley in a deep dish, or mashed 
with butter, pepper, salt, and enough cream to make them 
rich and soft. 

New potatoes to boil should be careftilly washed and 
have the skin rubbed off with a rough cloth, and boiled 
in salted water and served with plenty of butter. The 



294 Vegetables 

usual methods of frying potatoes are characterized as 
French fried, German fried, and country fashion, chips, 
sticks, or Boston strips, and are associated with certain 
dishes with which they are always served. Potato salad, 
always an appetizing dish, is served with several different 
kinds of dressings that are popular in certain localities. 

When boiling old potatoes add a little milk to the water 
and they will not turn dark. 

Never use boiled potatoes for salad that have chilled 
on ice. 



To Boil Potatoes 

If the potatoes are old choose as many as are needed of 
equal size, cut a little piece from the end of each, remove 
the eyes, and plunge the potatoes into boiling water to which 
a saltspoon of salt has been added. Boil steadily for thirty 
minutes, drain, pare, and serve with a gill of melted butter 
and a half teaspoon of chopped parsley, a half teaspoon of 
salt, and a saltspoon of pepper. New potatoes will boil in 
twenty minutes. 

To Bake Potatoes 

Wash the skins, carefully choosing potatoes of equal size, 
cut a tiny piece from each end, place them in a hot oven, and 
bake forty minutes, turning once. When done take from 
the oven in a soft cloth one at a time, and gently pinch the 
potato all around, which process frees the meat from the 
skin, so when it is broken open it btu^ts out light and 
fluffy. 

French Fried Potatoes 

The French fried potatoes are always cut lengthwise in 
strips, and allowed to stand one hour in cold water, then are 
slipped into hot lard that must be deep enough for them to 
float in. They are drained when brown, salted, and served 



Vegetables 295 

in a napkin, not, as is often the case, on the dish with the 
steak, where they are softened by its juices and spoiled. 

Escalloped Potatoes 

Pare and slice thin, potatoes enough to fill a medium-sized 
pudding dish, cover with cold water, and let stand three or 
four hours. Drain and dry on a linen cloth; grease the 
dish and add alternate layers of potatoes and cracker 
crtunbs, dots of butter, a dusting of pepper and salt, and 
a teaspoon of sugar; then pour in one pint of milk and bake. 
Cover the dish one hour, then open it and brown daintily. 

Stuffed Pdtatoes in Casserole 

Select six meditun-sized potatoes and, after paring and 
washing them, remove the centers with an apple corer. 
Then stuJS the potatoes with well-seasoned sausage meat, lay 
them in a casserole dish, dust them with pepper and salt, 
and add a small can of button mushrooms which have been 
sauted in butter. Put over all a pint of rich brown gravy. 
Let cook from an hour to an hour and a half, then serve 
with any good roast. The potato centers that are hollowed 
out may be boiled, then mashed or creamed for breakfast 
or luncheon use. 

Potato Rissoles 

Boil and mash six large potatoes, add a saltspoon of 
pepper, a half teaspoon of salt, a tablespoon of butter, and a 
teaspoon of minced parsley. Make into small balls, roU 
in beaten-egg, cracker dust, and a sprinkling of Parmesan 
cheese, and fry in hot lard a delicate brown ; drain and serve 
in a napkin. 

German Potatoes 

Put three ounces of butter into*a stewpan with two table- 
spoons of flour. Stir until the butter is a light brown, then 



20 Vegetables 

add two tablespoons of vinegar and a half pint of stock. 
Peel and slice in long slices six large potatoes, lay them 
in the gravy, and simmer until they are done. Serve very 
hot with roast meat. 

German Potato Cakes 

Pare and grate six large raw potatoes, add two eggs, one 
pint of milk, a saltspoon of pepper, a half teaspoon of 
salt, a tablespoon of sugar, two heaping tablespoons of 
flour, and one teaspoon baking powder; drop the batter by 
the spoonful on a hot greased griddle as for pancakes. Serve 
hot with butter and salt, or with stewed fruit. 

Irish Potato Cakes 

To one cup of mashed potatoes, seasoned with butter 
and salt, add one half cup of milk and one and one half 
cups of flour; beat lightly, add one teaspoon of caraway 
seeds. Roll into a round cake one inch thick and bake in 
buttered ftying pan, covered, on top of the range. Bake 
brown, cut into four quarters, and serve hot, with butter 
and salt. 

Danish Potatoes 

BoU a quart of Danish potatoes; when done cut in thick 
slices; grate one large onion and add to three otmces of 
butter, and when melted fry the potatoes in it, drain, and 
serve on a napkin, garnished with cress. 

Potato Fingers 

These are to serve with chops. Take freshly mashed 
potato, add a cup of bread cnmibs, a saltspoon of salt, 
a half saltspoon of pepper, one small grated onion, a table- 
spoon of butter, and enough milk to soften and one egg 
to bind the mixture, which is then formed into fingers 



Vegetables 297 

three inches long and an inch through. Dip them in egg, 
then into fine crumbs, and fry in butter. Lay around the 
edge of a hot platter with the center heaped with French 
peas and garnish the chops with toast sippets and parsley. 

Riced Potatoes 

Boil, mash, and season six large potatoes, have a hot dish 
ready, and put them through the ricer. Serve with sausages 
baked in pastry squares. 

Potato Custards 

Boil and mash six large potatoes; add two well-beaten 
eggs, a tablespoon of butter, a saltspoon of pepper, a salt- 
spoon of salt, and one cup of hot milk; beat until very 
smooth and light; add a teaspoon of sugar and a very small 
grating of nutmeg. Lightly fill greased custard cups and 
bake a delicate brown. Bake fifteen minutes. 

Glazed Sweet Potatoes 

The glazed sweet potatoes are especially nice whelh cooked 
with honey. Split the boiled sweets lengthwise in thick 
slices, arrange them on a well-buttered baking dish, dust 
them with pepper, salt, and a little sugar, and turnover them 
a small cup of strained honey and a tablespoon of lemon 
juice. The lemon juice keeps the honey from candying. 
Bake the potatoes until they are a delicate brown. 

Sweet Potatoes with Sherry Wine 

Boil six meditun-sized sweet potatoes until soft, mash, 
season with a half teaspoon of salt, a saltspoon of pepper, 
and a gill of sherry wine. Moisten with rich milk or cream, 
beat vigorously, and pile lightly on a hot vegetable dish. 



298 Vegetables 

RADISHES 

The radish is one of the family of the cultivated horse- 
radish, and is composed mostly of fiber and nitrogen, 
being eaten raw it is on the nitrogen its flavor depends. 
They are red and white in the ordinary varieties best known 
here, in globe shape, or long like the carrot. In France 
there is a black radish so called, and a violet one also, the 
black being the larger of the two. 

Creamed Radishes 

Wash, pare, and slice in thick slices eight or ten white 
radishes, in season. Put them in a saucepan with boiling 
water and let them boil until they are tender when pierced 
with a fork. While the radishes are boiling add to them 
three cloves, a bay leaf, a half bud of garlic, and a half 
lemon sliced very thin, with the pits removed. Make a 
good cream sauce not too thick while the radishes are cook- 
ing and when they are done drain them very carefully and 
thoroughly; put them into the sauce and serve hot. Re- 
move the bits of lemon before sending to table and add one 
diced hard-boiled egg. 

This is an excellent way to use radishes that are too large 
and strong flavored to eat raw with salt. 

To Boil Salsiiy 

Scrape two bunches of salsify (oyster plant) , wash and cut 
into one-inch pieces. Put them into cold water to which a 
teaspoon of lemon juice has been added to keep them from 
tiuTiing black. When ready to boil put them into boiling 
water, to which a teaspoon of salt, a teaspoon of lemon 
juice, and a teaspoon of butter have been added, and boil 
rapidly for thirty minutes; test with a fork to make stire 
they are done. Drain and serve with seasoned melted 
butter, or in a cream sauce. 



Vegetables 299 

Mock Fish Pfttfe 

Wash and scrape two btinches of salsify roots, boil until 
tender, drain, and beat with a wooden spoon to a smooth 
paste. Moisten the mixture with a little cream, adding a 
heaping teaspoon of butter and an egg to each cup of salsify, 
the eggs being previously beaten. Fill scallop shells with 
the mixture, sprinkle a few bread crumbs over the top of 
eaph, and bake» serving hot. 

Italian Squash 

This is the name given by the marketmen to the long, 
round, green squash, not unlike a cucumber in appearance 
except that its surface is smooth and it has delicate yellow 
gourd-like stripes running its length. It is a fine stunmer 
squash, but few American housekeepers are acquainted 
with it. The skin is thin, the seeds very small and tender, 
and the flavor is superior to that of any other summer 
squash. 

These squashes shotdd be pared and boiled about twenty 
minutes or until they are tender. Then remove them 
from the water and mash them in an enamel strainer; 
this frees them from the tumecessary water they contain. 
They may then be placed in a vegetable dish and a saltspoon 
of pepper, a half teaspoon of salt, a tablespoon of butter, 
and a teaspoon of sugar added by way of seasoning. 

Another way of cooking them is to pare and cut them 
into small pieces. Place them in a buttered baking dish; 
first a layer of the squash, then a sifting of bread crumbs 
with pepper, salt, and butter; then another layer of the 
squash, and so on until the dish is filled. Then add two 
gills of cream with two beaten eggs and a generous grating 
of English cheese over the top. Bake about half an hour 
in a moderate oven. 

The Italian squash may also be cut into thick slices with- 
out paring, dipped in egg, then in crumbs, and fried in the 



300 Vegetables 

same way as egg plant. Still another way is to pare and 
cut the squashes in thick slices and place them in a steamer. 
Steam until very tender, then serve them in a rich cream 
sauce which has been well seasoned but not made too 
thick. The Italians serve them steamed in this way, but 
instead of the cream sauce they use a rich brown gravy that 
has chopped sweet peppers through it and is dusted with 
Parmesan cheese. But no matter how these squashes are 
cooked they will be found a treat and a decided addition to 
the summer menu. 

All the other varieties of summer squash may be boiled 
and mashed in the same way. 

Hubbard Squash 

Take a medium-sized Hubbard squash, which is the best 
squash for winter cooking, cut it into quarters, remove the 
seeds, pare, and plunge into boiling water. Boil until 
tender, usually about thirty ndnutes. When done drain, 
mash very smooth, and add a heaping tablespoon of butter, 
a saltspoon of pepper, a level teaspoon of salt, and two 
tablespoons of sugar. Beat seasoning in well, and last of 
all add a half gill of sweet cream. 

Old-fashioned housekeepers cooked the squash without 
paring, and then, when done, scooped the flesh from the 
shells. But this is a difficult method, and it seems to be 
just as good done in the simpler way. 

The squash is very heavy and hard to cut so that a sharp 
knife and a hammer are necessary. 

To Wash and Boil Spinach 

Take two quarts of fresh spinach, pick it over carefully, 
remove all weeds or stalks, then wash it in seven waters. 
This is done by using two dish pans or pails, lifting it from 
one to the other, constantly changing the water, so that the 
sand settles to the bottom. When thoroughly clean put 
the spinach into a large saucepan with two heaping table- 



Vegetables 301 

spoons of salt, and a pint of boiling water, press it down 
frequently with a wooden spoon, and cook evenly for ten 
minutes, or until it is perfectly tender. Then drain in a 
colander, pressing it dry and chopping it fine. Put the 
spinach back into a clean stewpan, with a heaping table- 
spoon of butter, a saltspoon of pepper, and a half teaspoon 
of salt. When hot serve garnished with hard-boiled eggs 
sliced. 

It may also be served with a cream sauce, or with a rich 
tomato sauce. 

German Spmach Loaf 

Take one cup of boiled spinach, a half a cup of bread 
crumbs, six large sardines, skinned, boned, and broken, a 
gill of melted butter, a tablespoon of chutney sjoiip, and 
one teaspoon of lemon juice. Add one hard-boiled egg 
that has been chopped, a saltspoon of pepper, a half teaspoon 
of salt, and one beaten raw egg. Mix the ingredients 
thoroughly together and place them in a buttered loaf pan; 
bake in the oven for about an hour, or less if the oven is very 
hot. Unmold the loaf on a hot platter and turn over it a 
good cream sauce that is not too thick and garnish with 
sprays of parsley. 

Spinach Sotiffl6 

Take four pounds of spinach, trim and wash it thoroughly, 
then boil in plenty of water, adding a pinch of soda and a 
pinch of salt. When done, remove the spinach from the 
water into a strainer with a skimmer; this will leave any 
extra sand at the bottom of the kettle. When drained 
chop the spinach very fine and add to it four well-beaten 
eggs, a saltspoon of pepper, a half teaspoon of salt, a dessert- 
spoon of melted butter, and a quarter cup of cream. Mix 
thoroughly, put in well-buttered souffle dishes, or large 
ramekins, and bake ten minutes. 



302 Vegetables 

Marions in 



Wash, boil, and prepare spinach in the usual way, then 
drain, chop fine, and pan it in butter, when it will be ready 
to turn on to a hot platter and be covered with the following 
sauce: One pint of cooking marrons, drain and cook tintil 
very tender in a pint of red stock, then season well, add a 
cup of liquor in which they were put up, boil up, and thicken 
slightly with butter and browned flour rubbed to a cream, 
turn over the spinach on the hot plate,^ and garnish with 
fried tomato slices. 

Succotash , 

Prepare a dozen ears of com by splitting the grains and 
scraping them down with the back of a knife, then add a 
tablespoon of butter, a saltspoon of pepper, a half teaspoon 
of salt, two tablespoons of sugar, a cup of cream, and a half 
cup of milk; stew in double boiler fifteen minutes. Have 
ready a quart of freshly boiled Lima beans, drain them and 
add to the com. Fry two slices of pickled pork that has 
been diced a crisp brown and add them with the fat to the 
succotash. This is a famous New England recipe. The 
succotash may, of course, be made from caimed materials. 

Fried Tomatoes 

Select four firm ripe tomatoes and wash and cut them in 
thick slices without paring them. Dust lightly with 
pepper and salt and fry them in hot butter. When done, 
drain; then lay each slice on a buttered toast round, pour 
over each a small cup of hot cream and serve at once. 
The slices may be dipped in crumbs, fried, and served 
without a sauce. 

Green Fried Tomatoes 

Wash and slice green tomatoes in thick slices and let 
stand in salt water all day, dry off, and dip in beaten ^%z 



Ve|(etables 303 

and roll in cracker dust, sprinkle with salt and pepper and 
fry in hot fat, drain and serve with any sort of broiled meat 
or boiled fish. 

Stuffed Tomatoes 

Select as many tomatoes as are needed to serve one to a 
portion, and hollow out the stem end. Make a savory 
stuffing of a half cupof bread crumbs, a teaspoon of chopped 
celery and onion, and a half cup of flaked cold boiled cod- 
fish; season all highly, add a half gill of melted butter and a 
tablespoon of cream, and stuff the tomatoes with it. Dip 
each,afteritis stuffed, in a little melted butter; then sprinkle 
with fine crumbs and bake on a buttered pan. Do not 
bake long enough to have them collapse and spoil the 
appearance of the dish. This stuffing will fill four large 
tomatoes. 

Fresh Stewed Tomatoes 

Cut in quarters six large tomatoes, cover them with one 
half pint of boiling water, add a teaspoon of salt, and stew 
gently until the tomatoes are done, about fifteen minutes. 
Then add a saltspoon of pepper, a tablespoon of sugar, a 
half saltspoon of bi-carbonate of soda, and thicken slightly 
with two teaspoons of browned flour that has been worked 
smooth with two teaspoons of butter. 

TURinPS 

Turnips do not appeal strongly to all people, yet they 
are a useful winter vegetable and can be cooked in several 
attractive ways. The small white ones are often boiled 
and served with a cream sauce, the yellow ones are usually 
mashed or diced in butter. 

Fried Tuxnips 

Pare, and boil for thirty Canutes a large yellow turnip 
When tender slice in medium sUces; dip in egg, then in 



304 Vegetables 

crumbs seasoned with a saltspoon of pepper, a half teaspoon 
of salt, a teaspoon of sugar, and a little chopped parsley. 
Pry in deep hot fat until a good brown; drain and serve. 

Turnip Croquettes 

Boil one yellow turnip with two potatoes. When thor- 
oughly done mash very smooth, add a gill of cream, one 
egg, a saltspoon of pepper, a half teaspoon of salt, a big 
lump of butter, and a half cup of finely chopped pecans. 
Beat thoroughly and sift in enough flour to form into cro- 
quettes. Pry in very hot lard, drain, and serve in a napkin 
with parsley and thinly sliced lemon. A slight dusting of 
powdered sugar may go in with the nuts and adds to the 
flavor. 

Yellow Tumip 

Pare, and boil the tumip until done; mash with plenty of 
butter, pepper, salt, sugar, and a gill of cream. Serve hot. 

Turnip Pie 

Boil, and mash one yellow tumip, add to it a saltspoon of 
pepper, half a teaspoon of salt, a gill of melted butter, a 
tablespoon of sugar, and a cup of apple sauce. Line a deep 
pie plate with crust, then spread a thick layer of the tumip 
in, and over the top spread a thick layer of well-seasoned 
sausage meat, spread thinly with apple sauce, and put on 
the top crust. Bake in a meditun oven a half hour, and 
serve hot. 

Stuffed Turnips 

Pare, and boil for twenty minutes enough large white 
turnips to allow one to a portion, and when they are partly 
done remove from the fire and drain. Cut a slice off the 
bottom so that they stand firmly, then with a teaspoon 
hollow out the centers. Have a filling ready, made of a 



Vegetables 3^5 

half cup of cold chopped meat, a minced onion, a teaspoon of 
chopped parsley, a half cup of bread crumbs, a saltspoon of 
pepper, a saltspoon of salt, a dessertspoon of sugar, a half 
gill of melted butter and a tablespoon of cream. Fill the 
turnips and tie the tops on with a piece of kitchen tape; 
place them in a baking pan and pour over them a quart of 
good stock. Dust the top of each with a little grated cheese. 
Cook until they are a delicate brown, then remove them to 
a hot dish with a skimmer. Thicken the gravy with a little 
butter and flour, adding a little cream if it has cooked 
away. Pull off the Uttle tapes and pour the gravy over the 
turnips. The insides cut from the turnips may be used up 
in the vegetable soup. 

TruflSies 

Truffles, to be in perfection, must be quite fresh, good 
ones being easily distinguished by their agreeable aroma. 
They are light in proportion to their size, and elastic when 
pressed by the finger. French truffles are exported in great 
quantities, bottled, canned, in powder form, and are con- 
served in various other ways. There are also a large 
number shipped from Italy. 

There are three varieties of the species: the black, the 
red and the white, the latter being of little value. The 
best truffles come from Perigord, the next best from 
Provence, Dauphine ; the white truffles come from Piedmont. 
The black truffle has the highest repute and its consump- 
tion is enormous. The red truffle is very rare, like the 
edible red mushroom, and in France its use is restricted 
by law. 

Truffles au Naturel 

Select as many truffles as are required. They should be 
of equal size. If fresh ones are procured, cleanse them 
carefully by washing them in several waters and scrubbing 
them with a stiff brush to remove every particle of sand and 



306 Vegetables 

grit; if truflBes from can or bottle are tised, rinse them 
thoroughly in cold water and dry them on a soft doth. 
When washed, dust them lightly with a little pepper and 
salt, squeeze a few drops of onion juice over them, and wrap 
each one in buttered paper. Bake in a hot oven for about 
an hour; when done, remove and take off the paper, drain, 
and serve heaped in a napkin. These will be found very 
nice, served in this way, with broiled chicken. 

Ham and Truffles 

Drain, and rinse carefully a one-pint bottle of truffles. 
Cover the bottom of a frying pan with sliced bacon, arrange 
the truffles evenly on top, covering them with a sUce of 
ham which has been steeped in water to freshen, and over 
all put one cup of finely nwnced veal. In another well- 
buttered frying pan put one thinly sliced onion, a tablespoon 
of chopped parsley, a half bud of garlic, a saltspoon of salt, 
a saltspoon of pepper, and two cold boiled carrots, minced. 
When these begin to color, moisten with three quarters of a 
pint of tomato juice that has had added to it two tablespoons 
of chutney syrup, two tablespoons of tomato ketchup, two 
tablespoons of olive oil, and a half saltspoon of mignonette 
pepper. When this mixture has boiled up once, pour it 
over the meat and truffles, cover, and let all cook gently 
together for one hour and a half. When ready to serve, 
place on a hot dish the slice of ham, arrange the truffles 
on top, strain the gravy, which may be thickened slightly if 
it seems too thin, then ttun it over the truffles, and garnish 
with toast sippets. 

Truffles k ntalienne 

Clean careftdly ten good-sized truffles, slice them, and 
put them into a sautd pan with one ounce of butter, one 
minced shalot, a saltspoon of salt, a half saltspoon of pepper, 
one tablespoon of minced parsley, and a few drops of onion 
juice; stir them over the fire for about ten minutes so that 



Vegetables 307 

they may all be equally done. When done, drain off the 
butter and add one ounce of fresh butter, two tablespoons 
of good stock, the juice of half a lemon, and a dash of cayenne 
pepper. Stir over the fire once more, until the whole reaches 
boiling point. Serve hot. 

Baked Truffles 

Take ten truf&es, wash them thoroughly, cut them in 
slices, and place the slices in a buttered baking dish, mixing 
with them a seasoning of a quarter of a pint of salad oil, 
a saltspoon of pepper, a half teaspoon of salt, one table- 
spoon of minced parsley, one bud of finely minced garlic, 
and a pinch of mace. Bake them for nearly an hour, and 
just before serving sprinkle over them a tablespoon of 
lemon juice. 

Vegetable Mairow 

For the vegetable marrow, select a good-sized one, cut 
off one end, and scoop out the center freely, then make a 
savory filling of five tablespoons of bread crtunbs and one 
tablespoon of melted butter, a fried onion, a dessertspoon of 
chopped parsley, a saltspoon of sage, and thyme. Season 
well, add a few drops of lemon juice, and bind all with a 
beaten egg. Fill the marrow, place it in a cloth, and steam 
until tender, then cover with brown sauce containing a 
tablespoon of fried bread crumbs. 

Baked Marrow, Sour Cream Sauce 

Wash and cut two vegetable marrows in half and scrape 
out the seeds; make a savory stuffing of one cup of crumbs, 
one chopped onion, a tablespoon of chopped celery, twelve 
seeded raisins, a tablespoon of chopped pecan meats, a tea- 
spoon of cold boiled chopped ham, a tablespoon of cream 
and two of sherry; stuff, and bake in a moderate oven until 
the marrow is tender enough to scoop out of the shell. 



308 Vegetables 

Set the marrows on a bed of parsley and serve. The sauce 
is made of a cupful of sour cream beaten with the juice of 
a lemon and a teaspoon of sugar, and is served in a 
tureen. 

Vegetarian Roast 

Mix together one half cup of lentil pulp, one whole cup of 
pea pulp, a half cup of finely chopped English walnuts, one 
cup of bread crumbs, a gill of melted butter, a gill of cream, 
a saltspoon of pepper, a half teaspoon of salt, a little sage, a 
teaspoon of sugar, and a half cup of hot cream. Fold in the 
stiffly beaten whites of two eggs, and turn the mixture into 
a buttered baking disK Bake in a medium oven until firm 
enough to slice. Serve with the roast a cranberry jelly 
and, in a tureen, a brown apple sauce. For the sauce take 
a half pint of heavy tomato stock, adding to it one cup of 
smooth apple sauce; thicken slightly with butter and 
browned flour and season to taste. 

Dasheens 

This vegetable is a staple article of food for millions 
of people in tropical and subtropical countries. In general 
it is used in the different ways in which the white potato 
and the sweet potato are used. The flesh of the large 
spherical corms and of the larger tubers (which are usually 
much smaller than the corms) is frequently somewhat 
gray or violet when cooked, but this does not affect the 
flavor. Baked dasheens, stufl[ed dasheens, scalloped 
dasheens, boiled dasheens, fried dasheens, mashed dasheens, 
creamed dasheens, dasheen salad, dasheens as filling for 
fowls and other meats, dasheen soup, candied dasheens, 
dasheen pie, dasheen pudding, dasheen shoots, dasheen 
greens are all good. Prepare and cook them as you would 
potatoes. The dasheen is a member of the elephant-eared 
caladium plant family. 



Vegetables 309 

Crones 

An odd-looking little Japanese vegetable, the crone, 
made its ddbut at a recent culinary show in New York 
City. It is about three inches long, covered with a pale 
yellow skin, like a potato, and is shaped and marked like a 
circtdar conch sheU, rising to a point at the end. The 
flavor is very much Uke that of the Jerusalem artichoke 
and it is sold by the pound, but as the weight is light a 
pound goes a good way. 

It is much easier to boil crones before paring, as then they 
retain their shape more perfectly. Plain boiled, they are 
very nice served with a dressing of melted butter that has 
been allowed to boil up once with a teaspoon of carefully 
washed fresh fennel seed added to it. They are also good 
creamed, to serve with chops or steak; or, after boiling, 
they may be broiled, dipped in melted butter, and rolled 
in a little minced parsley to be used as an edible garnish. 

VEGETABLES IN JELL7 

The foundation of these jellies is not just plain gelatine 
but is a chicken jelly, a calf's foot jelly, a mutton broth 
jelly, a beef jelly, or a cereal jelly, each making, when 
properly combined, a tasty background for the vegetable 
flavors. In seasoning foods that are to be jeUied one 
must always remember that the chilling seems to dull the 
flavor, and it is wise to add a little more than would be used 
if the dish were to be served warm; be careful only about the 
addition of too much salt. 

From the following five foundation jellies most of the 
jellied vegetables are made. Before jellying, the vegetables 
are always cooked and cooled. 

Chicken Jelly 

Select one short, thick, four-pound chicken, dress and 
singe it. Have the butcher split six pairs of chicken feet 



3IO Vegetables 

and put them to boil with the chicken. When the chicken 
has boiled tender, take it from the broth, and after it slightly 
cools take the meat from the bones to use for a salad or 
creamed chicken. Throw the skin and bones back into the 
broth, add one thinly sliced onion, a stalk of celery, a diced 
carrot, a tablespoon of rice, and a little chopped parsley. 
Boil the broth down until the liquid is reduced to about a 
quart, then add a saltspoon of pepper and a half teaspoon of 
salt and remove from the fire; strain carefully into a crock 
and when cold remove the grease from the top and set it 
away to jell. 

Calf 8 Foot JeUy 

Select four calves' feet and have them properly cleaned 
and split. Cover them with water, adding a thinly sliced 
onion, a bunch of sweet herbs, a stalk of celery, a few 
tarragon leaves, a bay leaf, and four cloves, a saltspoon of 
pepper and a half-teaspoon of salt. Let cook evenly until 
the meat falls from the bones. Strain the broth carefully 
into a crock and when cool skim and set away to jell. 

Mutton Broth Jelly 

Take two pounds of neck of mutton, one calf's foot, a 
small bunch of sweet herbs, a small onion, a bay leaf, and 
two cloves; cover with cold water and boil. Boil until the 
meat falls from the bones and the liquid is reduced to about 
one quart. Strain carefully, and when cold remove the 
fat and set away to jell. 

Tapioca Jelly 

Put two heaping tablespoons of tapioca into a pint of 
water and cook until the tapioca is transparent, then add a 
saltspoon of salt and a teaspoon of butter, turn into a mold 
and set away until needed. 



Ve^etable^ 311 

Beef JeUy 

Make a half pint of good beef broth, using a pound of 
tenderloin of beef diced, a pint of water, a saltspoon of 
pepper, and a half teaspoon of salt. When done, strain, and 
add to it a scant tablespoon of gelatine which has been 
melted in a little cold water, stir it in while the broth is still 
hot, then strain again, and set away to jell. 

These jellies may all be n:iade a day ahead of the time 
they are to be used, when half the quantity of any one of 
them will be sufficient for one jellied vegetable foundation 
except the beef broth, /which is in quantity for only one dish. 

Vegetable MacMoine 

Take half the qtiantity made of chicken jelly and melt 
it in a saucepan; add to it a small bottle of mac^doine of 
vegetables carefully drained; season, and when all is heated 
through, turn into small molds and set aside to jeH 

Jellied Cttcomber and Onion 

Slice thinly two cucumbers and chop fine one Spanish 
onion; saut^ them in butter until they are a delicate brown, 
season with a saltspoon of pepper, a saltspoon of salt, 
and a saltspoon of sugar, and drain carefully. Have ready 
melted a pint of the calf's foot jelly and add these to it. 
Put into individual wet molds and set away to jell. 

Jellied Carxots and Rice 

Pare, boil, and dice two carrots, take a half cup of freshly 
boiled rice, and have ready melted a pint of the mutton 
broth; stir the carrots and rice into it, add a teaspoon of 
chopped parsley, a saltspoon of pepper and salt, and set 
away to jeU in wet molds. 

Jellied Beets 

Boil, pare, and dice enough beets to allow one for each 
portion to be served. When cold allow them to marinate 



312 Ve|[(etableo 

in French dressing for oae hoiir. Melt half the qtiantity 
of tapioca jelly, drain the beets and add them to it, mix, 
and turn into wetted molds and jell. 

Jellied Peas and Cauliflower 

Melt the beef jelly, add to it a half cup of fireshly cooked 
green peas that have been drained and a few sprays of 
freaUy boiled cauliflower, season with a saltspoon of pepper, 
two ^tspoons of salt, a teaspoon of sugar, and turn into 
wetted molds and jell. 

Asparagus in Aspic 

Boil two bunches of green asparagus until tender, cutting 
them back far enough so that all the stalk will be edible. 
Have ready a well seasoned chicken aspic, colored with 
Breton coloring a pale green. Turn a little of the jelly into 
the bottom of a damp, cold mould, and when slightly set 
lay in a layer of the asparagus and one hard-boiled egg 
sliced. Then turn in a little more jelly, another layer of 
asparagus and egg; after this fill the mould with jelly. 
When chilled and set slice with a sharp knife; serve on let- 
tuce leaves garnished with a slice of fresh tomato and may- 
onnaise also colored a delicate green. Besides being a most 
decorative dish this is a very appetizing one. 

THE MABKETS OF CHINATOWN 

In sumxoer the green goods displayed in the Chinese 
shops are raised on Long Island farms by Chinamen, but 
in the winter season most of the things are raised in the 
south. 

The bins and shelves are filled with dried edibles such as 
mushrooms, dried flying fish or other fish, water chestnuts, 
and a variety of 'dried roots and vegetables. Hanging 
from the lines above the customer's head are quantities of 
dried ducks that have been smoked and dried whole; these 



Vegetables 3^3 

ducks are considered a great delicacy. The dried flying fish 
and strips of bacon, already cooked, are neatly TcXLed around 
bamboo splints and hung in bundles. 

Among the vegetables in the windows are Chinese pota- 
toes. The Chinese cabbages head up much more loosely 
than our own cabbages, and have, ^en cooked, a decided 
herb flavor. 

Sweet mustard is a great favorite on the Chindse table. 
It resembles the outside leaves of cauliflower, though the 
stems are more succulent and it does not head with a solid 
center. The sweet mustard is prepared by pulling the 
leaves apart and washing them carefully, then boiling them 
in water which must be changed three times, after which 
a small loin of pork, or a fresh ham is put in, and cooked 
with them. 

Tulip bulbs are pared, and eaten with a little garlic as a 
relish, or they are cooked and served with a specially made 
meat sauce and rice. It is safe to say that after a wee 
taste most people would prefer to have their tulip bulbs 
grow and blossom rather than add them to the list of avail- 
able salad materials. 

''Elephants' Trunks" look as if they might easily pose 
as the ancestors of the American beets, and they are cooked 
and used in much the same way as beets are used on Ameri- 
can tables. There is a peculiar kind of lettuce which has 
an unpronounceable name, as well as a most unhappy taste, 
that is very popular among the Chinese for boiling with 
dried fish. 

Water sprouts look about as chicory salad would look 
if cut into small pieces. They are used in almost all Chinese 
sauces and are very crisp, with a slightly bitter flavor. 
Another staple article is the water chestnut. These nuts 
are pared and eaten raw, or they may be cooked with the 
favorite chicken and mushroom dish, or again cut fine and 
added to a rich brown gravy which has grated pineapple 
in it and is often served with the dish known as "pineapple 
pike, " an especially good fish concoction. 



314 Vegetables 

A great deal of horse-radish is used in Chinese cooking, 
therefore the market is plentifully supplied with it, and it 
vies with green peppers, onions, and turnips for first place. 
Ginger root is prepared in several ways and takes the place 
of the pepper when it is out of season. The sweets offered 
in Chinese markets are sugar cane, rice cakes, and candies; 
preserved, sugared, and dried fruits; sugared ginger, and 
sweet flag roots. 



CEREALS 

There are so many cereals on the market, reoommended 
by physicians and food specialists, that to treat the subject 
at length is hardly necessary here. So only the simplest 
recipes for the cooking of the best-known cereals are given. 

Com-meal Mush 

Put two quarts of water and two teaspoons of salt into a 
mush kettle, and when it is boiling sift in slowly a pint and 
a half of yellow com meal. Boil rapidly for ten minutes, 
then set back on the stove, and allow it to cook very gently 
for two hours. The mush may then be seasoned with a 
small Itmip of butter and a tablespoon of sugar, then turned 
into a wet mold and allowed to harden. When cold it 
may be cut down and fried, and eaten as a breakfast dish 
with maple syrup. Or it may be eaten hot with cream. 

To Boil Oatmeal 

Put one quart of water into a double boiler with a tea- 
spoon of salt and bring to boiling point. Sift in very 
slowly six tablespoons of oatmeal (Scotch or Irish). Bring 
it to boiling point and allow it to boil gently, but steadily, 
for four hours. Serve seasoned to taste with cream or 
butter. 

Hominy 

There are two kinds of hominy: one is the entire grain 
and the other is the grotmd grain after the hull has been 
removed; both kinds have to be soaked in cold water twelve 

315 



3i6 Cereals 

hoxirs before being cooked, both, also, double in quantity 
with the soaking. 

They are put to cook in the morning in fresh boiling 
water and allowed to boil four or five hours; a teaspoon of 
salt is added to each pint of hominy. As it absorbs the 
water while cooking it must be watched and more water 
added as needed. The last time water is added allow it to 
cook until all the water is absorbed, so it is dry when tlie 
seasoning is added just before service. 

On the containers of all the breakfast foods will be 
found adequate recipes and directions for their use. 

Farina Dumplings 

Bring one quart of milk to a boil, stirring in slowly ten 
ounces of farina, and boil till well done, continually stirring. 
After cooling, stir in a tablespoon of fresh melted butter, 
three well-beaten eggs, a half pound of flour with one and a 
half teaspoons of baking powder and a little salt. Mix 
well and drop with a tablespoon into boiling water, well 
salted. Boil fifteen minutes till they rise, take out with 
a skimmer, and serve hot with fruit sauce. 

RICE DISHES 

It is said that rice forms the principal food of one half the 
population of the earth, and it is unquestionabl}^ used more 
generally than any other cereal. The Creoles use it from 
one to three times a day, but rarely use sugar with it, pre- 
ferring to have it served hot with any sort of good gravy. 

Rice should always be served dry, steaming hot, with 
every grain separate if it is used plain boiled as a vegetable. 
In fact, it should be cooked in that way before it is added 
to any combination either as a vegetable or as a dessert. 

There are said to be one thousand four hundred different 
varieties of rice; in the United States six grades are home 
grown. Pfom Honduras come three varieties: a long 



Cereals 3^7 

whole grain, a long partly broken grain, and a &iely broken 
grain. From Japan we get a round whole grain, a round 
partly broken grain, and "screenings." 

When the housewife once learns to cook rice as the Chinese 
cook it, she will have mastered one of the real arts of good 
cookery, and this practical recipe may be of use to her. 

To Cook Rice 

Wash one cup of rice through six waters until all doudi- 
ness is removed and drain it thoroughly. Have ready 
boiling three cups of water, to which add a saltspoonof 
salt and a saltspoon of butter; add the rice slowly so that 
the water wUl not stop boiling. When it is aU in, tilt the 
cover over the saucepan and do not stir the rice but depend 
upon the boiling water to keep the grains jtmtiping. Allow 
it to boil about fifteen minutes to absorb the water fully, 
then remove the cover and, at the same heat, let the rice 
dry out for five minutes, watching it carefully. If cooking 
over gas, lower the flame after five minutes and continue 
the drying out process for fifteen minutes or so, when it 
will be ready to serve in any way one may desire. 

To Boil Sice 

To use rice as a vegetable it should be so cooked tiiat 
each grain is separate. To have it this way proceed as 
follows: Wash three quarters of a pound of rice in cold 
water, let it soakfor anhour, then have ready a saucepan of 
boiling water and drop the rice in, keep it boiling quickly 
until done; add a dash of salt, and throw the rice into a 
sieve to strain it. Pile on the center of a dish of fried 
chicken or use around the edge as a garnish. 

Rice washed in hot water is more quiddy deansed and 
freed from starch than when washed in cold water. 

Kice Pilaii 

Put a half pound of rice into cold water, add a dash of 



318 

salt» and boil slowly, drain off the water, and freshen it 
with cold water, and cover closely with a cloth to steam» 
placing it in a warm place to swell. Melt a half pound 
of butter, pour over the rice, garnish with parsley, and 
serve. 

Rice Milanese 

To make the rice milanese, boil six ounces of rice in a 
double boiler until tender, chop and fry one onion brown; 
add two pealed tomatoes and cook until tender, then add 
to the rice with the yolks of two eggs, one and a half ounces 
of grated cheese and seasoning. Mix well and serve with 
English brown sauce. 

Fried Rice 

Boil the rice and cool it in a square mould; cut in half -inch 
slices, roll in flour, and fry in very hot fat. Drain on brown 
paper, season, and serve with chops. 

Hot Honey and Rice 

Wash a cup of rice in a number of waters until the cloudi- 
ness disappears, drain, and pltmge into a quart of boiling 
water, adding a teaspoon of salt and lard the size of a 
filbert. Boil twenty minutes, drain, and mix with two 
heaping tablespoons of butter and a small cup of strained 
honey. Serve with a spoonftd of whipped cream on top 
of each portion. 

Rice Fritters 

Mash a cup of cold boiled rice thoroughly with a cup of 
milk and one well-beaten egg; add to this batter a half cup 
of sifted flour and a half teaspoon of yeast powder, a pinch 
of salt, a heaping tablespoon of sugar. Mix thoroughly 
and drop by spoonfuls into hot fat. When done, drain, and 
serve with any kind of roast meat. 



Cereals 319 

MACARONI AND SPAGHETTI DISHES 

The best macaroni cxmies from the continent of Europe — 
best for the reason that it cooks more tender than any other, 
though there are two or three American brands that seem 
to be constantly improving. 

The macaroni which is of a yellowish color is usually the 
best ; the white kind is inferior and lacks body. It increases 
in boiling at about a fourfold rate, so one may judge in this 
way the quantity to use for the number of portions to be 
served. To boil macaroni properly (and the same rules 
apply to spaghetti), have the water boiling and jtmiping, 
throw into it a tablespoon of salt, then break the macaroni 
into desired lengths and drop it into the water a little at a 
time, so as not to stop the water boiling. When it has 
boiled from fifteen to twenty minutes, pinch a piece between 
the thumb and finger to test whether or not it is perfectly 
done. Then throw it into a sieve and pour first lukewarm 
water through it, then cold water, which will remove the 
mucilaginous liquid that makes it cling together. Pour it 
back into the basin and it is ready to fix in any of the 
various dishes which have been selected for the day. 

Baked Macaroni 

Make a cream sauce, not too thick; add to it a dash of 
paprika, a half cup of grated English cheese, and the boiled 
macaroni. Put all into a well-buttered baking dish, sprin- 
kling the top with a tablespoon of very dry bread crumbs 
mixed with a little of the cheese, and bake a delicate brown. 

Macaroni Cutlets 

Boil and prepare the macaroni as above. When ready 
chop it slightly and add six ounces of bread crtmibs, a 
teaspoon of thyme, and one of parsley. Pry in butter three 
finely sliced onions and two tomatoes; when done, turn into 
the mixtture, adding one egg, a tablespoon of sugar, pepper, 
and salt. Shape into cutlets, roll in flour, and fry in hot 
fat, drain and serve with a rich smooth tomato sauce, 
garnished with parsley and toast sippets. 



320 

MacaiODi with Safiron Curry Sauce 

Boil a half package of macaroni in the usual way. To 
one pint of red stock add a half teaspoon of curry powder 
and a saltspoon of saffron, rub a little flour and butter 
together, and thicken the sauce to the consistency of honey; 
add salt, a teaspoon of sugar, and heat the macaroni in the 
sauce until it is hot, then serve. 

Macanmi with Spinach 

Have ready boiled and blanched a package of macaroni 
broken into short lengths. Wash thoroughly two quarts of 
spinach and boil it in the usual way; when done, drain it 
carefully, chop very fine, drain it again, then pan it in 
butter. Place the macaroni on a hot platter, turn the 
spinach in the center of it, dust the top with pepper and salt, 
pour over all a gill of melted butter, and sprinkle the top 
with a little freshly grated Parmesan cheese. 

Italian Spaghetti 

To one package of boiled and blanched spaghetti add a 
small cup of bread crumbs that have been fried in butter 
and drained, with a dusting of pepper and salt, a gill of 
melted butter in which a half teaspoon of powdered saffron 
has been mixed, and a cup and a half of smooth tomato 
sauce about the consistency of honey. Wipe the serving 
dish with a bud of garlic and turn in the mixture. 

Spaghetti Cutlets 

Boil a half package of spaghetti imtil done, then drain, 
blanch, and chop it in small pieces. Add to it six ounces 
of bread crumbs, one large onion that has been chopped and 
browned in butter, a teaspoon of chopped parsley, a tea- 



321 

spocm of lemon juice, a couple of tomatoes that have been 
chopped and fried with the onion, a saltspoon of pepper, 
and two saltspoons of salt, a dash of sugar, smd one beaten 
egg to bind the mixture. Mix all well and shape into cutlets. 
Dip each in egg, toll them in flout, then fry them in hot fat. 
Serve with a rich smooth tomato sauce. 

Buttered Spai^etti 

Boil a half package of spaghetti as usual; add a teaspoon 
of fresh fennel seed to a half pint of melted butter and let 
simmer for five minutes without burning; add a teaspoon 
of onion juice, a saltspoon each of salt and cayenne pepper, 
and mix with the spaghetti. When hot remove from the 
fire and stir into it a half cup of grated English cheese. 

Spaghetti k la Turque 

Boil half a package of spaghetti, wash and drain, then 
chop it quite fine, and add a half pint of fine dry bread 
cnmibs, with a grated onion, two tablespoons of chopped 
parsley, a saltspoon of pepper, and a half teaspoon of 
salt, a tablespoon of chutney syrupy a generous rating of 
nutmeg, and one beaten egg. Turn the mixture into small, 
buttered cups, and steam for an hour and a half, then turn 
out on to individual plates and cover with a ridi brown 
gravy. 

Spaghetti in Tomato Aspic 

Boil and blanch a package of spaghetti, then chop it 
coarsely. Take a large can of tomatoes and add a little 
chopped celery, a sliced onion, and a btmch of savory herbs. 
Boil this mixture for half an hour, then strain; add to the 
strained tomato juice three heaping tablespoons of powdered 
gelatine that has been soaked a little while in cold water. 
When the gelatine is thoroughly melted, add seasoning to 
taste, and strain the sauce over the spaghetti. Pour all into 
a mold that has been wet with cold water and set aside to 

2Z 



320 

Hiacaiom with Saffron Curry Sauce 

Boil a half package of macaroni in the usual way. To 
one pint of red stock add a half teaspoon of curry powder 
and a saltspoon of saffron, rub a little flour and butter 
together, and thicken the sauce to the consistency of honey; 
add salt, a teaspoon of sugar, and heat the macaroni in the 
sauce tmtil it is hot, then serve. 

Macaxoni with Spinach 

Have ready boiled and blanched a package of macaroni 
broken into short lengths. Wash thoroughly two quarts of 
spinach and boil it in the usual way; when done, drain it 
carefully, chop very fine, drain it again, then pan it in 
butter. Place the macaroni on a hot platter, turn the 
spinach in the center of it, dust the top with pepper and salt, 
pour over all a gill of melted butter, and sprinkle the top 
with a little freshly grated Parmesan cheese. 

Italian Spaghetti 

To one package of boiled and blanched spaghetti add a 
small cup of bread crumbs that have been fried in butter 
and drained, with a dusting of pepper and salt, a gill of 
melted butter in which a half teaspoon of powdered saffron 
has been mixed, and a cup and a half of smooth tomato 
sauce about the consistency of honey. Wipe the serving 
dish with a bud of garlic and turn in the mixture. 

Spaghetti Cutlets 

Boil a half package of spaghetti tmtil done, then drain, 
blanch, and chop it in small pieces. Add to it six ounces 
of bread crtmibs, one large onion that has been chopped and 
browned in butter, a teaspoon of chopped parsley, a tea- 



321 

spocm of lemon juice, a couple of tomatoes that have been 
chopped and fried with the onion, a saltspoon of pepper, 
and two saltspoons of salt, a dash of sugar, and one beaten 
^gg to bind the nuxttire. Mix all well and shape into cutlets. 
Dip each in egg, roll them in flout, then fry them in hot fat. 
Serve with a rich smooth tomato sauce. 

Buttered Spaghetti 

Boil a half package of spaghetti as usual ; add a teaspoon 
of fresh fennel seed to a half pint of melted butter and let 
simmer for five minutes without burning; add a teaspoon 
of onion juice, a saltspoon each of salt and cayenne pepper, 
and mix with the spaghetti. When hot remove from the 
fire and star into it a half cup of grated English cheese. 

Spaghetti k la Turque 

Boil half a package of spaghetti, wash and drain, then 
chop it quite fine, and add a half pint of fine dry bread 
crumbs, with a grated onion, two tablespoons of chopped 
parsley, a saltspoon of pepper, and a half teaspoon of 
salt, a tablespoon of chutney syrup, a generous rating of 
nutmeg, and one beaten egg. Turn the mixture into small, 
buttered cups, and steam for an hour and a half, then turn 
out on to individual plates and cover with a ricli brown 
gravy. 

Spaghetti in Tomato Aspic 

Boil and blanch a package of spaghetti, then chop it 
coarsely. Take a large can of tomatoes and add a little 
chopped celery, a sliced onion, and a btmch of savory herbs. 
Boil this mixture for half an hour, then strain; add to the 
strained tomato juice three heaping tablespoons of powdered 
gelatine that has been soaked a little while in cold water. 
When the gelatine is thoroughly melted, add seasoning to 
taste, and strain the sauce over the spaghetti. Pour all into 
a mold that has been wet with cold water and set aside to 

ax 



320 Cereala 

MacaiQDi with Safiion Curry Sauce 

Boil a half package of macaroni in the usual way. To 
one pint of red stock add a half teaspoon of curry powder 
and a saltspoon of saffron, rub a little flour and butter 
together, and thicken the sauce to the consistency of honey; 
add salt, a teaspoon of sugar, and heat the macaroni in the 
sauce until it is hot, then serve. 

MAcaioni with Spinach 

Have ready boiled and blanched a package of macaroni 
broken into short lengths. Wash thoroughly two quarts of 
spinach and boil it in the usual way; when done, drain it 
carefully, chop very fine, drain it again, then pan it in 
butter. Place the macaroni on a hot platter, turn the 
spinach in the center of it, dust the top with pepper and salt, 
pour over all a gill of melted butter, and sprinkle the top 
with a little freshly grated Parmesan cheese. 

Italian Spaghetti 

To one package of boiled and blanched spaghetti add a 
small cup of bread crumbs that have been fried in butter 
and drained, with a dusting of pepper and salt, a gill of 
melted butter in which a half teaspoon of powdered saffron 
has been mixed, and a cup and a half of smooth tomato 
sauce about the consistency of honey. Wipe the serving 
dish with a bud of garlic and turn in the mixture. 

Spaghetti Cutlets 

Boil a half package of spaghetti tmtil done, then drain, 
blanch, and chop it in small pieces. Add to it six ounces 
of bread crumbs, one large onion that has been chopped and 
browned in butter, a teaspoon of chopped parsley, a tea- 



321 

spo(»i of lemon juice, a couple of tomatoes that have been 
chopped and fried with the onion, a saltspoon of pepper, 
and two saltspoons of salt, a dash of sugar, and one beaten 
egg to bind the mixture. Mix all well and shape into cutlets. 
Dip each in egg, roll them in float, then fry them in hot fat. 
Serve with a rich smooth tomato sauce. 

Battered Spaghetti 

Boil a half package of spaghetti as usual; add a teaspoon 
of fresh fennd seed to a half pint of melted butter and let 
simmer for five minutes without burning; add a teaspoon 
of onion juice, a saltspoon each of salt and cayenne pepper, 
and mix with the spaghetti. When hot remove from the 
fire and stir into it a half cup of grated English cheese. 

Spaghetti k la Tarqae 

Boil half a package of spaghetti, wash and drain, then 
chop it quite fine, and add a half pint of fine dry bread 
crumbs, with a grated onion, two tablespoons of chopped 
parsley, a saltspoon of pepper, and a half teaspoon of 
salt, a tablespoon of chutney syrup, a generous rating of 
nutmeg, and one beaten egg. Ttun the mixture into small, 
buttered cups, and steam for an hour and a half, then turn 
out on to individual plates and cover with a ricL brown 
gravy. 

Spaghetti in Tomato Aspic 

Boil and blanch a package of spaghetti, then chop it 
coarsely. Take a large can of tomatoes and add a little 
chopped celery, a sliced onion, and a bunch of savory herbs. 
Boil this mixture for half an hour, then strain; add to the 
strained tomato juice three heaping tablespoons of powdered 
gelatine that has been soaked a little while in cold water. 
When the gelatine is thoroughly melted, add seasoning to 
taste, and strain the sauce over the spaghetti. Pour all into 
a mold that has been wet with cold water and set aside to 

21 



322 Cereals 

chUl and harden. When readj^ to serve, turn out of the 
mold and slice on lettuce leaves, covering each slice with 
rich mayonnaise. 

Vermicelli and Noodles 

Vermicelli is made of the same paste that macaroni, 
spaghetti, and angel tresses are made of, which is a 
wheaten flour flavored with other articles and worked 
up with water into a paste. The finest is made from the 
flour of the hard-grained. Black Sea wheat. 

Besides being used in broths and soups the vermicelli 
may be used as a vegetable, being plain boiled by being 
plunged into boiling salted water and boiling rapidly for 
ten minutes, then drained and served in tomato sauce or 
butter sauce. 



i Custard 



Boil, drain, and blanch a half box of vermicelli; then 
add to it a cup of hot milk, a cup of hot cream, a cup of 
sugar, three beaten eggs, a teaspoon of vanilla, a grating 
of nutmeg, and twelve large seeded raisins that have been 
allowed to marinate in ginger sjrrup for a half hour. Pour all 
into a buttered baking dish and set the dish in a pan of hot 
water in the oven until the custard sets. Serve the pudding 
hot or cold with whipped cream. 

NOODLES 

Though noodles may be purchased ready-made in any 
quantity or shape desired, made of the same Italian paste 
that the macaronis are made of, they are nicer when made 
at home. The various Italian pastes contain about the 
nourishment of our white bread. But used in combinations 
with vegetables and meats they make very satisfactory 
and wholesome dishes. 



323 

To Make Pbdn Noodles 

Take four tablespoons of flotir and add to it one well- 
beaten egg, mixing thoroughly; when the dough becomes 
hard knead it until it becomes soft, pliable, and free from 
stickiness. Then roll it out in a very thin sheet, plaoe it on 
a linen cloth, and hang it in the air for about fifteen minutes 
so that it may dry, then roU it tightly and, beginning at 
either end of the roll, slice it down thinly with a sharp knife. 
When cut, shake the noodles up, place Uiem on a clean sheet 
of brown paper, and let them dry in the sun, or in a cooling 
oven for a couple of hours, then put them into a mason jar 
and screw down the cover tight. They are then ready for 
use. 

Besides being used in soups noodles are made into many 
so-called made dishes. 

Noodles mih Brown Sauce 

Take two cups of noodles and add them gently to a 
quart of boiling salted water and boil ten minutes. Drain 
carefully, then add them to a well-seasoned brown sauce, and 
serve them with a steak or pork tenderloins. 

Escalloped Noodles 

Boil the noodles in the usual way, drain and put a layer in 
the bottom of a buttered baking dish. Then put a layer of 
diced carrots, potatoes, and a grated onion, a dusting of 
pepper and salt, and a teaspoon of sugar. Then add another 
layer of the noodles and continue in this way tmtil the 
dish IS full. Then turn over all a gill of melted butter and 
a cup of well-seasoned tomato sauce which is about the 
thickness of strained honey. Bake for thirty minutes and 
serve with any good roast. If a small lump of butter is 
added to the boiling water in which any of the macaroni 
pastes are to be boiled, it will prevent them from sticking 
to the saucepan. 



SALADS 

Study should be given to the making of several kinds of 
salad dressings and to ascertaining with which kinds of food 
they best combine so as to be wholesome and digestible. 

Lettuce must be fresh, well washed, crisp and cold, and 
wiped dry before it is used, so that water will not thin 
the dressing. Celery should be white and crisp, onions, 
shalots, leeks, garHc, and dbives must be fresh and ready at 
hand if needed. The best olive, walnut, or peanut oil that 
can be ptu'chased or the best butter to melt should alone 
be used in dressings. 

Fruit salads, always appealing, are doubly so when spring 
brings the fruits in variety. All juicy fruits prepared for 
salads should be placed in a little white enamel strainer over 
a bo^d while they are chilling so that when the salad is 
prepared the juices may not thin the dressing. The fruit 
juices may always be used with carbonated water for a cold 
drink, or made up as a pudding sauce. 

Salad garnishes are in wide assortment, with all of the 
different lettuces, chives, onions, cucumbers, and tomatoes 
cut in fancy ways; cold cut vegetables; red beet leaves to 
mix with the lettuces; radishes, red and green peppers, 
fresh olives, green almonds, pickled com, fish pastes, olives, 
pepper, and cold boiled egg rings, cockscombs, kidneys, and 
fancy bottled hors-d'oeuvres that come in variety. All 
these are aids to the salad gamisher. Egg pond-lilies and 
tomato roses and baskets must not be overlooked. 

With the use of proper sauces, cold fish and shellfish 
may be utilized in making salads. Fish salads are little 
used, because people do not imderstand adding ingredients 

324 



SaladU 3^5 

which lighten them sufficiently to make them acceptable, 
or they put on dressings which soak into and separate the 
fiber so as to make the whole salad seem unpalatable. 

Fish to be used for salads must be very fresh and cooked 
only until they are done, not until they are soft. They 
must be drained carefully, cooked quickly, and prepared 
just before they are needed, with the dressing added, just 
as the salad goes to the table. Fish salads should never 
be allowed to stand after being dressed. 

In si»ingtime one's thoughts naturally turn to the fresh 
growing green things for salad use instead of the heavier 
combinations used during the winter. Freshly plucked 
watercress and yotmg dandelion are the first real outdoor 
salad material grown according to nature and not cultivated 
by man. Then early lettuces, upland cress, romaine, field 
lettuce, chicory, peppergrass, and a number of others 
familiar in different localities are much sought after for 
the salad dish. 

Scissors are useful for cutting fruits, green pepper rings, 
dough for biscuit, the wings and sinews of fowls, the string 
and thread used in trussing, the centers out of grapefruit, 
toast fingers and a dozen other things for which a knife is 
useless. It is difficult for a cook to get along without 
them. 

They should be kept clean and bright and hanging on a 
convenient nail, near the string bag. 

Chapon 

The chapon is a slice of bread stuck with four garlic 
buds, fotu* cloves, and slightly moistened with tarragon 
vinegar. It is laid in the salad bowl under the salad to 
flavor it. 

FISH SALADS 
Oyster Salad 

Select one quart of solid oysters, and when their liquor 
comes to a boil add the oysters. When they boil up once 



326 Salads 

remove the oysters, drain and cool. Take three egg yolks, 
half a cup of butter, a quarter cup of sugar, half a cup of 
vinegar and a tablespoon of dry mustard. Stir the ingredi- 
ents over the fire tmtil the eggs begin to thicken, then 
remove from the fire but keep stirring for two minutes or 
until the mixture is thoroughly smooth. Shred the hearts 
of two heads of white lettuce and mix one cup of finely 
chopped celery with the oysters. When the dressing is 
cold lay up the salad and garnish with olives and a little 
chopped red pepper. If the oysters are large they may be 
cut through once or twice. This will serve six people. 

ScaHop Salad 

Drain and dry one quart of large scallops, dip in beaten 
egg, and roll them in fine cracker crumbs, to which add a 
tablespoon heaped up of grated English cheese, a salt- 
spoon of pepper, and a half teaspoon of salt. Drop singly 
into hot fat. When a delicate brown lift and drain on 
blotting paper. After they have become cold, serve on 
lettuce leaves or in very thin patty shells covered with 
tartare sauce and garnish with watercress. This will serve 
six people. 

Codfish Tongue Salad 

Allow one codfish tongue to each portion. Wash 
and put them on in cold water, adding a bunch of savory 
herbs, a stalk of celery, an onion, a clove, a saltspoon each 
of pepper and salt, and a tablespoon of vinegar. When 
they reach the boiling point allow them to boil ten minutes, 
throw them into cold water, skin and trim and place on 
ice to chill. When chilled slice them thin and allow them 
to marinate in French dressing twenty minutes. Add 
one cup of chopped cuciunber and mayonnaise made with 
mustard, toss the salad lightly, nest in white lettuce leaves, 
garnishing with cress and capers; serve small beaten biscxiits 
with the salad. This will serve four people. 



Salads 337 

Frogs' Legs Salad 

Parboil frogs' legs tintfl tender; one dozen will yield two 
cups of meat when picked from the bones. Add to them one 
chopped red pepper and a half cup of chopped celery ; sprinkle 
with a little salt and mignonette pepper. Parboil a quarter 
pound of calf's liver; when done, chop finely and add it to 
one glass of melted apple jelly; add a dash of red pepper, 
juice of half a lemon; when cool turn over the salad, chill 
well, and serve in lettuce leaves garnished with olives and 
pimentos. Will be sufficient for four people. 

Shad Roe Salad 

Boil two large shad's roes in salt water. Be careful not 
to boil them so that they break in pieces. When done, 
drain and cool. As soon as cold, cut into slices, dust with 
salt and pepper, juice of a lemon, tarragon vinegar, and 
juice of an onion; let stand three hours. A half bud of 
garlic will improve the flavor, if garlic is liked. Drain and 
lay on white lettuce leaves, cover with mayonnaise with 
a dash of paprika in it and garnish with watercress. Will 
serve six people. 

Baked Lobster Salad 

For the salad take the meat of one boiled lobster weighing 
two and a half pounds, shred as finely as possible, add a half 
cup of bread crumbs, a tablespoon of chopped walnuts, 
one beaten egg^ two tablespoons of melted butter, and a 
tablespoon of cream. Form the mixture into miniature 
croquettes the size of large queen olives, roll in egg and very 
fine crumbs, put on buttered baking pan, and bake in the 
oven to a delicate brown, basting with a teaspoon of 
melted butter and a tablespoon of sherry. When cool 
serve on lettuce leaves with heavy mayonnaise, garnished 
with olive rings and lobster coral. Will serve four people. 



328 Salads 

Mussel Salad 

Either steam the mussels fresh, or the spiced mussels in 
bottles may be used. If the latter are chosen, drain them 
carefuUy and put them to marinate in French dressing. 
When ready to lay up the salad, drain the mussels and add 
to them a cup of finely chopped celery, a finely chopped 
red pepper, and a heart of lettuce cut up fine with the scis- 
sors. Toss the salad in light mayonnaise and serve it 
garnished with white egg rings and olives. This will serve 
four people. 

Chicken Halibut Salad with Fresh Tomatoes 

Cut three pounds of chicken halibut in one-inch slices 
and cook them in a court bouillon made of two quarts of 
cold water, one carrot, two onions, half a wineglass of vine- 
gar, and season to taste with thyme, bay leaves, parsley 
root, salt, and pepper. Boil the bouillon thirty minutes, 
then allow it to cool before putting the fish into it. Cook 
at boiling point ten minutes, then remove from the fire, 
and chill on the ice. Make a dressing of one soup- 
spoon of French mustard, one spoon of tarragon vinegar, 
three spoons of olive oil, one-half teaspoon of salt, one- 
half teaspoon of chervil and chives, and pepper to taste. 
Put a slice of chilled fish on a slice of tomato and add the 
dressing. Garnish the salad with olives and cold boiled 
egg stars. This will serve eight people. 

Snapper Salad 

Carefully flake a pound and a half of cold boiled red 
snapper and add to it one cup of chopped celery, six olives 
and three gherkins chopped fine, and three tablespoons of 
French dressing to which the juice of an onion has been 
added. Cut the white centers from two heads of chicory, 
wash, cut into small pieces and toss with the salad. Add 
sufficient heavy mayonnaise to mix the salad thoroughly 



Salads 329 

and serve in white lettuce leaves garnished with capers 
that have been washed in ice water, and a little chopped red 
pepper and olives, the green and red garnish being especially 
decorative with the brilliant colored fish. This will serve 
four people. 

Shad and Pineapple Salad 

To two cups of boned and flaked cold boiled or broiled 
shad, add three quarters of a cup of chopped celery, one 
cup of chopped, drained pineapple, a saltspoon of pepper 
and a half teaspoon of salt, and one tablespoon of chutney 
syrup added to two tablespoons of French dressing. Toss all 
together. Add the heart of one white head of lettuce cut in 
ribbons, apd serve on green lettuce leaves with a tablespoon 
of mayonnaise on top of each salad portion and garnish 
with a little ear of pickled French com. This will serve 
four people. 

Crab and Ftesh Olive Salad 

Add to one pound of flaked crab meat one cup of finely 
chopped celery, one cup of seeded and chopped fresh ripe 
olives, one finely chopped gherkin, and a smaU red pepper 
cut into ribbons. Toss the salad with three tablespoons 
of French dressing made with walnut oil, serve in white 
lettuce leaves with a tablespoon of mayonaise, made also 
with walnut oil, on each portion, with one pitted ripe olive 
in the center. This will serve four people. 

MEAT AND GAME SALADS 

Russian Salad 

Take one cup of chopped cold boiled tongue and add a 
half cup of chopped cabbage, half a cup of chopped celery, 
three chopped peppers, and one thinly sliced or chopped 
Spanish onion. To one cup of mayonnaise, add enough 
ketchup to color the dressing a light pink, then add two gher- 



330 Salads 

kins, one pepper, two shalots, three olives chopped fine, 
and three sardines that have been flaked with a silver fork. 
Toss the salad lightly and put one hard-boiled egg through 
the ricer over the top, jas a garnish. This will serve six 
people. 

Chicken Salad 



Prepare the chicken in the usual way, add a cup of chopped 
celery, quarter of a cup of ground nuts, and a can of French 
peas drained. Mix the salad with a dressing made of 
one cup of sour cream, the juice of half a lemon, two tea- 
spoons of vinegar, one of sugar, a half saltspoon of pepper, 
and a saltspoon of salt. Serve in lettuce with red beet 
leaves and nasturtitmi blossoms for garnish. This will 
serve four people. 

Chicken Salad Pie 

For the chicken salad pie make a large shell of good pie 
crust, rolled rather thin and baked over a well-buttered, 
inverted, deep, jelly layer tin. Prepare a good chicken 
salad in the usual way — white meat, chopped celery, hearts 
of two heads of chicory cut fine, and a small white heart of 
lettuce cut into ribbons. Toss all lightly in good mayon- 
naise, to which the juice of half an onion and a half cup of 
whipped cream have been added. Fill the pie shell with 
the salad, heaped up, and garnish it with olives in red 
pepper rings and a hard-boiled egg cut down into eight 
quarter-shaped pieces and laid open in the center like a 
flower with a little heap of finely chopped red pepper in the 
center. To eat with the salad, powder a few triscuits 
with grated cheese and a dusting of red pepper, heat them 
in the oven until the cheese melts and then serve. This 
will serve six people. 

Veal Salad 

Take a cup and a half of finely minced cold veal, add 
some finely chopped celery and cut lettuce. Season highly 



Salads 331 

and mix well with a heavy mayonnaise. Cold lamb may 
be used in the same way in an emergency. 

Baked Sweetbread Salad 

Parboil and blanch a good pair of fresh sweetbreads. 
When cold, split and thickly spread with a mixture of 
chopped olives, nuts, yolk of hard-boiled egg, and a green 
pepper after removing the seeds, butter, and a dusting of 
cracker crumbs, all worked to a paste. Spread the paste 
on the sweetbreads, tie the halves together with the kitchen 
tape, sprinkle with pepper, salt, and a little melted butter. 
Bake a delicate brown in a hot oven, and when cold slice 
in thick slices and arrange them on lettuce leaves, serving 
with mayonnaise dressing. Will serve four people. 

Austrian Pigeon Salad 

Cut the meat from two boiled pigeons, add to it one 
cup of finely chopped celery, three quarters of a cup of 
finely chopped walnuts, add the cnunbs of six stale maca* 
roons, one very finely chopped red pepper with six finely 
chopped olives, and to the heavy mayonnaise add a teaspoon 
of fresh fennel seed and a tablespoon of whipped cream. 
Toss the salad lightly in the dressing, wipe the inside of the 
salad bowl with a bud of garlic, then line it with white 
lettuce leaves and lay up the salad, garnishing the top of 
it with quarters of deviled egg. Will serve six people. 

Duck and Orange Salad 

Take a cold roast duck and dice enough meat to make two 
cups, pare two firm juicy oranges, dice the flesh and put 
it in to chill, and drain in a small white enamel sieve. 
Shred a small head of white lettuce, chop celery enough to 
make a half cup. When ready to serve toss the ingredients 
in three tablespoons of French dressing, then add heavy 
mayonnaise made with mustard, garnish with olives stuffed 



^ 



332 Salads 

with celery and chopped red peppers. Will serve four 
people. 

Salad Puffs 

* Roll good puff paste thin and cut pieces four inches wide 
by eight inches long; roll, stuff the roll with soft paper to 
keep its shape, and seal with white of egg. Bake a delicate 
brown. When cold pull out the paper, fill with finely 
chopped and rich chicken salad, dipping the end in whipped 
cream, then into powdered nuts. Serve two, tied with 
narrow white satin ribbon on a lace paper doily, to each 
guest. 

Squab Salad 

Parboil six squabs and a pair of sweetbreads. When the 
birds are done and cold, strip the meat from the bones and 
dice it. Add to it the diced sweetbreads, one cup of chopped 
celery, one half cup chopped pecan nuts, the white hearts of 
two heads of chicory cut fine, one hard-boiled egg chopped, 
and a half cup of olive rings. Add to the mayonnaise a 
tablespoon of chutney syrup and a dash of cayenne pepper. 
Mix the salad well and serve in deep lettuce leaves. 

VEGETABLE SALADS 

The usual well-known salad combinations of vegetables 
that have been boiled and diced, lettuces, cuctunbers, toma- 
toes, and the usual salad ingredients have been omitted. 
The following recipes are unusual enough to be worth 
considering. 

Barbe de Capudn 

There are three varieties of the barbe to be fotmd in our 
markets (perhaps it is better known to most of us as 
"chicory"; in some localities it is "goat's beard" or monk's 
beard"), but they all belong to the endive family. Barbe 



Salads 333 

IS the pale green variety, blanched is the white loosely 
curled, and witloof is the pinkish ctirled solid heads. 

Endive in salad may be dressed with a French dressing 
made with horse-radish or beet vinegar, or may be stuffed 
with Roquefort cheese and have a French dressing, to 
which a half cup of grated pineapple has been added. Or 
one may add to the French dressing a tablespoon of Manda- 
lay sauce, a tablespoon of East India chutney sauce, or a 
teaspoon of preserved sweet mixed pickles. Any of the 
mayonnaise sauces prepared or plain do not go as well 
with this bitter salad as the thinner sauces do. 

Stuffed Endive Salad 

Take firm, crisp stalks of endive, force open the leaves 
and fill them with a mixture of Roquefort and cream cheese, 
blended together with a little heavy French dressing. 
Fold the leaves back in place and serve on lettuce. Garnish 
with pimento olives. 

Romaine Salad 

After careftd washing, cut the romaine for the salad into 
strips with the kitchen scissors, and cut the peppers also 
in very thin strips. Before making the French dressing 
wipe the inside of the bowl with a bud of garlic. Do not 
dress the salad until just before it is served, so that it will 
be light and crisp. Cheese wafers or crackers and cheese 
will be nice with the salad. 

New Potato Salad 

Boil eight medium-sized potatoes; when done and cold, 
pare them and cut them into slices or dice them. Let the 
potatoes marinate for twenty minutes in heavy French 
dressing to which have been added a bud of garlic and the 
juice of four onions. Have ready a rather thin mayon- 
naise, to which add one finely chopped cucumber from which 



334 Salads 

the seeds have been removed, a small stalk of celery, one 
red pepper, and three olives also chopped fine. Line the 
salad bowl with lettuce leaves, drain the potatoes, then toss 
all in the mayonnaise, turn into the salad bowl, and garnish 
with quarters of hard-boiled eggs and strips of red pepper. 
The French dressing drained from the potatoes may be 
used again for another salad. This will serve six people. 

Cauliflower Bouquet 

Select one large perfect cauliflower and boil until tender, 
but not soft enough to break; drain it and set it to cool. 
Arrange in the salad bowl a lining of well-washed red and 
green beet leaves; place the cauliflower in the center; cover 
with remolade dressing made of one beaten raw egg, a 
teaspoon of mixed mustard, three tablespoons of olive oil, ' 
a tablespoon of vinegar, and a teaspoon of chutney syrup. 
Garnish with little carrot roses that have been marinated in 
lemon juice and sugar for half an hour, and put in the 
center of each a little bit of chopped red pepper. This will 
serve six people. 

Cranbeny Salad 

Stew one pint of large cranberries in as Uttle water as 
possible and, when done, sweeten with a cup of sugar 
and let them get cold. Add to them one cup of chopped 
nut meats and a cup each of chopped celery and apple. 
Add the juice of half an orange and half a lemon, and fold 
in a small quantity of mayonnaise made without mustard. 
Crackers and cheese are nice with this salad. This will 
serve dx people. 

Hot Beet Salad 

Boil enough meditmi-sized beets to allow one to a portion. 
When done and skinned, hollow out the centers, leaving a 
deep cup, and set them in a steamer to keep hot. Chop 



Salads 335 

the beet pieces with two peppers, two gherkins, two table- 
spoons of pine nuts, and a teaspoon of pidcled nastiartium 
seeds. Make the same sauce as for the cabbage salad, 
adding, when done, a tablespoon of chopped chutney sweet 
pickle. Add to the sauce the chopped ingredients that 
are left after filling the beet cups and turn it hot over the 
beets. Serve tiny finger rolls with this salad. 

Pkikchoiy Chinese Salad 

Take one head of Chinese cabbage salad, wash, break it 
apart, and cut it into pieces with the kitchen scissors. 
Take one bunch of pakchoi (mustard vegetable), wash, 
cut the leaves with the salad, chop one red pepper and one 
onion very fine and add them to the salad. Take two slices 
of pickled pork, dice and fry a delicate brown, but do not fry 
to a crisp; drain, cool, and add the squares to the other salad 
ingredients. Make a thin mustard mayonnaise, adding to 
it a tablespoon of fat from the pork; also add a table- 
spoon of ginger syrup, toss the salad lightly with the sauce, 
and serve with crackers made of rice flour. This will 
serve six peopfle. 

Fried Salad 

This very odd salad, which is of Bohemian origin, is 
excellent to serve with a game dinner. Remove all the 
green leaves from a white head of cauliflower; wash thor- 
oughly, then let it boil in salted water until tender though 
firm. Drain, and when cold slice in meditun slices, dip in 
eggf dust with very fine cracker crumbs, and fry in butter. 
Drain and cool, and when cold lay the slices on white 
lettuce leaves and turn over them a sour cream dressing. 
The dressing is made of one gill of sour cream, the jtiice 
of half a lemon, and two teaspoons of sugar. Garnish each 
portion with a small sweet pickled, yellow tomato. Will 
serve six people. 



336 Salads 

Fenuchi Salad 

The Italians eat fenuchi as we do celery and the tops they 
boil with meat. Fenuchi makes an excellent salad cut fine 
with diced pineapple; dress with heavy mayonnaise and 
serve on white lettuce leaves. Just before adding the 
mayonnaise add a heaping tablespoon of whipped cream 
and a tablespoon of good sherry. Serve cheese straws with 
the salad. One btmch of fenuchi will serve four people. 

Fennel Seed Salad 

Wash carefully two tablespoons of fresh fennel seed 
and then marinate them in French dressing that has been 
highly seasoned and has a saltspoon of mignonette pepper 
added to it. Line the salad bowl with dark green lettuce 
leaves. Cut the hearts of two heads of romaine and the 
white centers from two heads of chicory, cut them up into 
pieces with the kitchen scissors, wash, and drain. Dice the 
flesh of one large or two small alligator pears; mix the salad, 
turning the fennel sauce over it. Serve garnished with the 
following: Take the yolks of three hard-boiled eggs, soften 
them to a paste with the juice of an onion, a half saltspoon 
of pepper, a saltspoon of salt, a dessertspoon of very finely 
chopped pecan nut meats, and a little French dressing. Add 
a teaspoon of anchovy paste, mix thoroughly, then mold into 
balls. Halve and stone enough large olives to press one- 
half on either side of each egglet; dice the white of one of 
the eggs and heap it in the center of the salad, dusting it 
with paprika; lay the egglets around the edge. This will 
serve six people. 

Baked Bean Salad 

Take two cups of cold baked beans and a half cup of 
the lean pork diced that has been baked with the beans. 
Mix two tablespoons of olive oil, one tablespoon of vinegar, 
the juice of an onion, a saltspoon of salt, a half saltspoon of 



Salads 337 

red pepper, two tablespoons of tomato ketchup, a tablespoon 
of sugar, and two tablespoons of mustard sauce. Beat all 
well together, add one cup of finely chopped celery and 
after the salad is carefully mixed serve on lettuce leaves 
withbrown bread toast fingers. 

Tansy Salad 

Select a large, heavy grapefruit, separate the flesh from 
the bitter skin in as large segments as possible, then set 
away in the strainer to chill. Line the salad bowl with 
green lettuce leaves: then cut into pieces one head of lettuce 
or romaine; add the grapefruit and sprinkle over it a heaping 
tablespoon of finely chopped tansy; turn over French dress- 
ing and garnish with white hard-boiled egg rings with an 
olive curl in the center of each, the curl being Ughtly spread 
with anchovy paste. This will serve four people. 

Truflie Salad 

Take one third artichoke bottoms^ cut the size and thick- 
ness of a nickel, one third black truffles, cut in thin round 
slices like the artichokes, and one third asparagus tips cut 
about three quarters of an inch long; mix together and 
season with French dressing and a little mustard. Serve 
in lettuce leaves, garnished with pimento olives. Another 
way to arrange this salad is to line the salad bowl with 
lettuce leaves, place the truffles in the center, arranging 
alternate bouquets of the asparagus tips and artichokes 
around the edge, turning the dressing over all. 

EGG, NUT, AND CHEESE SALADS 
Cream Cheese with Mac^doine Vegetables 



A tablespoon of finely chopped pimento, of green pepper, 
and of olives is the right proportion for a ten-cent square of 
cream cheese. Moisten wit^ a little French dressing and 

as 



33^ Salads 

pack in after-dinner coffee cups. This makes a pretty- 
sized slice when turned out, cut, and served on lettuce 
leaves. This amount will serve four people. 

Endive and Roquefort Cheese Salad 

In making the salad, after washing the endive, loosen 
the center leaves and stuff with Roquefort cheese which has 
been mashed soft, with a little French dressing. Serve 
sliced down on dark green lettuce leaves with French dress- 
ing and toasted water crackers. One pound of endive will 
serve four people. 

Devfled Salad Balls 

Take the yolks of fotir hard-boiled eggs and devil them, 
with a saltspoon of salt, the same amount of pepper, table- 
spoon of olive oil, a dessertspoon of Worcestershire sauce, to 
form the paste, then form into little balls; roll in powdered 
nuts and drop into the salad among the leaves. Cover 
with mayonnaise. 

Extra mayonnaise may be placed in the center of the 
salad in a half-lemon skin, having a slice cut from the 
bottom, so that it will stand upright. 

Pineapple and Cheese Salad 

For the salad pare and dice one large pineapple. Add 
to it half a cup of chopped celery, and the white center of a 
head of chicory cut up fiiie. Take a package of cream cheese 
and a piece of Roquefort cheese about the same size, add 
a saltspoon of salt, half saltspoon of red pepper, a table- 
spoon of finely chopped pecan nuts, the juice of a small 
onion, and enough cream added very slowly to make a 
molding paste. Fashion into balls the size of a marble, 
line the salad dish with dark green lettuce leaves. Drain 
the fruit, cover with heavy mayonnaise, and garnish the 
top with green pickled cherries and the cheese balls. 



Salads 339 

Frozen Cheese Salad 

This frozen salad is good to serve to break a heavy dinner, 
instead of an ice or frozen punch. 

To make it beat one package of cream cheese with a 
quarter of a cup of sweet cream, six finely chopped raisins, a 
saltspoon of salt, a half saltspoon of paprika, a saltspoon of 
sugar, a tablespoon of sherry, and a teaspoon of powdered 
pecans. Mix well, turn into a freezer, but do not freeze 
hard. Remove in time to mold, then pack in ice until 
ready to serve, when it is to be sliced onto lettuce leaves 
and. covered with mayonnaise made without mustard. 
This will serve fotu* people. 

Bird's Nest Salad 

Take as many hearts of white lettuce as there are portions 
to b3 served, wash, and with kitchen scissors hoUow out the 
centers by snipping out two or three of the leaves. Mix 
to a paste a package of cream cheese and the same weight 
in Roquefort, the juice of an onion, one red pepper, four 
olives, and a quarter cup of pecan nut meats chopped fine, 
a tablespoon of chutney syrup, a saltspoon of mignonette 
pepper, and enough sweet cream to make the paste soft 
enough to mold. When ready mold into eggs the size 
of marbles, put six in each nest on a little of the lettuce 
shredded, and send to table with a tureen of Russian dress- 
ing made of mayonnaise, to which add enough tomato 
ketchup to color it a delicate pink, add juice of an onion, a 
teaspoon of chopped red and green pepper, and a finely 
minced shalot. 

Ftesh Olhre Salad 

Take one can of ripe olives, drain, halve, and seed, add 
half a cup of chopped celery, half a cup of chopped walnuts, 
a half red pepper, two tablespoons of grated pineapple. 
Mix well with three tablespoons of French dressing, serve 



34^ Salads 

in white lettuce leaves with a tablespoon of mayonnaise on 
each portion, in the center of which place one stoned olive. 
This will serve four people. 

Litchi Salad 

The litchi nuts, ripe and bottled, come from the Island 
of Madagascar and are about the size of a large oUve. 
They are wrinkled like a preserved fruit and are a pinkish 
fawn in color. Their pits are edible and add a good flavor 
to the salad. They must be drained and then may be cut 
in half. Add a half cup of chopped celery, some shredded 
white lettuce, and dress the salad with Madagascar sauce. 
This is a very rich mayonnaise with heart of palm chopped 
through it. A pint bottle of the nuts will serve four people. 

Bonbon Salad 

Shape smaU sized balls of new pimento cheese and roll 
them in finely ground pecan nuts, press a half white grape 
on either side of the cheese. Allow six to a portion ar- 
ranged on white lettuce leaves, and cover with heavy mayon- 
naise, to which a little whipped cream has been added just 
before serving. 

A New Egg Salad 

Boil six fresh eggs until hard; peel them after they are 
cold, and cut each into six melon shaped pieces. Chop 
enough celery to make one cup, cut small the white centers 
of two heads of chicory, grate one onion and one cucumber 
after removing the seeds; mix all in the salad bowl and toss 
in mayonnaise that is slightly thinned by the addition of a 
tablespoon of chutney syrup and a tablespoon of whipped 
cream. Serve on lettuce leaves and garnish with a Httle 
chopped red pepper. This salad will be sufficient for four 
people and is good with cold meat for luncheon. 



Salads 341 

Hazelnut Salad 

Shell and blanch one pound of hazelnuts and grind half 
of them fine in a grinder. Grate half of a pineapple, 
mix with the nuts and a tablespoonful of sherry, juice 
of half a lemon, and a tablespoon of powdered sugar. 
Let stand one hour, then drain and add a package of cream 
cheese, mix to a paste, then make into balls with a whole 
nut in the center of each, pile on white lettuce leaves, and 
cover with mayonnaise. This will serve four people. 

Salade au Nid 

Boil eight fresh eggs hard. When cold cut lengthwise 
and remove the yolks, then cut the whites into strips. 
Mash the yolks to a paste with a tablespoon of olive oil, 
juice of an onion, teaspoon Worcestershire sauce, and six 
finely chopped pimento olives. Have boiled until tender 
and finely chopped one slice of calf*s liver; add to this a 
small package of cream cheese, a teaspoon of sugar, a salt- 
spoon of pepper, a saltspoon of salt, and enough sweet 
cream to make a paste; blend it with the egg paste and 
form into balls. Form a nest of the white strips on white 
lettuce leaves and allow five or six of the cheese balls to each 
portion. Before serving cover each portion with mayon- 
naise and garnish with a single spray of watercress. 

THE IfAEinG OF CANNED SALADS 

If unexpected company arrives just at the dinner hour, 
and one wishes to add a salad to the dinner already planned, 
why not make use of canned salad material? Living a 
little distance from the grocer's shop is sometimes as tmfor- 
ttmate as being a mile away; the housekeeper will see to it 
that a few cans of available salad material are always at 
hand. A bottle of macidoine vegetables, salmon, sardines, 
artichoke hearts, olives, gherkin pickles, chow-chow, 



342 Salads 

pickled omons, pickled beets, a bottle of pickled lambs' 
tongues, tunny fish, herring roe in oil, game pd.t6, canned 
breast of chicken, derby tongue, string beans, asparagus 
tips — these are a few of the many canned things that lend 
themselves acceptably to the salad course. 

Salad vinegars and oils are generally on hand, as are other 
every-day condiments, and there is usually a supply of 
eggs that may be boiled to make a salad, while the roast is 
being eaten. Celery and lettuce are often an tmcertain 
quantity, so sometimes substitutes must take their place. 
If the housewife has been thoughtful enough to can some 
fruit in a light syrup, this may also be used for a fruit salad. 
Pineapple, pear, and peach are the most useful fruits. 

Spanish peppers, put up in oil, one should always have 
ready on the shelf, for they are useful in many ways, and 
fresh ones are not always easy to get in winter. French 
chestnuts are put up especially for salad use, and are un- 
sweetened; these are excellent with grapefruit. Now and 
then a hot salad is a novelty, and is acceptable if it has 
not been preceded by too hearty a menu. The following 
recipes are good ones with which to experiment. 

Celery and lettuces have been left out of these recipes, 
for they are often difficult to get but, of course, if they are 
at hand, they may be used in the various salads where they 
generally appear. Cheeses have also been left out for the 
same reason. 

Grapefruit Salad 

If fortunate enough to have a couple of grapefruit on 
hand, a cup of bottled French chestnuts may be chopped 
and added to the pulp, with a few sliced truffles and a 
dressing made of two parts walnut oil, one part tarragon 
vinegar, a half saltspoon of pepper, a saltspoon of salt, and 
a dessertspoon of vanilla syrup beaten thoroughly. This 
makes a delightful salad, and cheese straws are served 
with it. This will serve four people. 



Salads 343 

Hot, Caoned Corn Salad 

Take a can of com and stew it in a little milk» adding 
two teaspoons of butter, a saltspoon of pepper, a half tea- 
spoon of salt, and a dessertspoon of sugar by way of season- 
ing. Add a half cup of flaked cold boiled codfish and two 
chopped Spanish peppers. When hot, drain the salad 
and fold in a cup of heavy mayonnaise; serve the salad on 
thin slices of brown bread, lightly spread with anchovy 
paste. The salad must be served as quickly as possible so 
as to retain its heat. This will serve f otir people plentifully. 

Artichoke Salad 

Six artichoke hearts come in one can. Drain the hearts 
and with a teaspoon hollow out the centers. The centers 
may then be filled with almost any sort of mixture that can 
be made in a hurry. Say, for instance, a sardine com- 
bination. Skin, bone, and break twelve sardines, adding to 
them a chopped pepper, two chopped gherkins, six pickled 
onions, a saltspoon of pepper, half teaspoon of salt, a table- 
spoon of chutney sjrrup, and enough French dressing to 
moisten the filling. Again, chopped vegetables, folded in 
mayonnaise make a good filling. "Otero" relish or "heart 
of palm"relish,both intended for canap^, can be used in this 
way and are complete without the addition of any extra 
sauce. 

Hot Cabbage Salad 

Select one medium-sized cabbage, strip off the outside 
leaves, and cut out the hard core. Shave or slice the 
cabbage very thin; then cover with a cloth .to keep it from 
drying out until ready to use. Put into a saucepan a half 
cup of sugar, a dessertspoon of dry mustard, a teaspoon 
of salt, a saltspoon of cayenne, a heaping tablespoon of 
butter, a tablespoon of onion juice, one beaten egg, a quarter 
cup of tarragon vinegar, and a half cup of cider vinegar. 



344 Salads 

Stir all well together and let it slowly come to the boiling 
point; boil up once, then set back and add three Spanish 
peppers and eight stoned olives chopped very fine. Slowly 
add the cabbage, a handful at a time. Keep stirring until 
it all melts down smooth and rich, then draw on to the fire 
to heat a minute or two. If it is too moist, drain, and 
serve with a pimento olive on top of each portion. Serve 
cheese crackers with the salad. This will serve six people. 

Lamb's Tongue and Asparagus Salad 

Take a pint jar of the lamb's tongues, drain, and chop 
them fine. Add a half saltspoon of pepper, a saltspoon of 
salt, one ntiinced pepper, one can asparagus tips cut small, 
two hard-boiled eggs chopped fine, and a tablespoon of 
washed capers. Use a light mayonnaise or a heavy French 
dressing. This wiU serve six people. 

Shrimp and Potato Salad 

Take one can of shrimps and break them into small 
pieces. Add to them two cups of cold boiled potato finely 
diced, a tablespoon of drained and rinsed capers, one 
Spanish onion finely minced, and one hard-boiled egg put 
through the ricer. Make the same dressing that was given 
for the hot cabbage salad, after allowing it to cool; or, a 
sweet cream dressing, made of one small cup of cream, 
a saltspoon of pepper, a half teaspoon of salt, two table- 
spoons of sugar, and three tablespoons of tarragon vinegar. 
Toss lightly in the dressing and let stand for a half hour to 
season through before serving, if that much time may be 
spared. The shrimps add an unusual flavor and a hearti- 
ness that help out a small dinner most satisfactorily. This 
serves six people. 

Bottled Breast of Chicken Salad 

One pint bottle holds enough chicken breast to make a 
salad for fotu* people. Drain carefully and cut or chop the 



Salads 345 

chicken in pieces, as desired. Wash and add to it a heaping 
tablespoon of capers, six sliced truffles* two hard*boiled eggs 
chopped, and two gherkin pickles very thinly sliced; then 
fold in mayonnaise that has had a teaspoon of onion juice 
added to it. Or take a can of pineapple, drain and chop it 
fine; add the white of two hard-boiled eggs chopped fine, six 
sliced truffles, and one minced pepper. Fold in mayonnaise 
to which has been added a heaping spoon of whipped cream. 
The egg and the whipped cream are added to lighten the 
salad, in place of the usual celery. 

Cardoon Salad 

The salad made of cardoons is rather unusual. These 
French thistles should be drained from the can and allowed 
to nMuinate for a half hour in French dressing to which a 
little onion juice has been added. Drain, add good mayon- 
naise, and lay on white lettuce leaves garnished with the 
sweet pickled cuctunber rings that come in bottles for the 
purpose. Toasted whole wheat crackers with melted 
cheese on them go nicely with this salad. This will serve 
four people. 

JELLIED SALADS 

Tomato Jelly 

Take one can of tomatoes, add to it three cups of water, a 
sliced onion, a bay leaf, a teaspoon of salt, a tablespoon of 
sugar, a bunch of savory herbs, a teaspoon of pepper, and 
three heaping tablespoons of gelatine. Beat over the fire 
until it begins to boil, allow it to boil for five minutes and 
add the whites and shells of two eggs. Beat all well to- 
gether and remove from the fire, letting it stand tightly 
covered for five minutes. Strain through a fine sieve, 
then through a piece of cheesecloth that has been wrung 
out of cold water, and finally into a ring mold that has 
been wet with cold water. When cold and beginning to set. 



34^ Salads 

press into the jelly stoned olives and the whites of three 
hard-boiled eggs cut into cubes. Make a bed of fresh 
lettuce leaves, turn the jelly ring upon it and fill the center 
with lettuce leaves cut to ribbons, a half a cup of chopped 
celery, a half cup of ground walnut meats, the yolks of the 
hard-boiled eggs put through a ricer, and cover the whole 
with good mayonnaise. This is sufficient for six people. 

Jellied Chicken Salad 

Prepare and boil one good tender chicken. When done and 
cool, cut the meat into small pieces, put the skin and bones 
into a saucepan with one quart of the liquor it was boiled in 
and one sliced onion, a bunch of savory herbs, a tablespoon 
of Worcestershire sauce, a tablespoon of chutney syrup, 
a half saltspoon of pepper, and a saltspoon of salt. Simmer 
until reduced nearly one half, then add one heaping table- 
spoon of gelatine that has been dissolved in hot water. Ar- 
range a layer of the chicken (first dipping each piece in may- 
onnaise) in a wet mold, then a layer of sliced hard-boiled 
eggs, then a layer of halved button mushrooms that have 
been sauted in butter and drained; then chicken, egg, and 
mushrooms until the chicken is used up. Strain over it the 
cooked liquor and set away to chill. When ready to serve 
turn on to a bed of lettuce leaves, garnish with stoned olives 
and a little chopped red pepper, slice down with a sharp 
knife, and cover each portion with heavy mayonnaise. This 
will serve six people. 

Cucumber Aspic 

Cucumber aspic is a salad jelly which is particularly 
nice and light to serve with a fairly heavy dinner. Pare and 
slice four large cucumbers and one onion, cover with one 
quart of cold water, season, and allow to simmer one hour. 
Soak a half package of gelatine in a Httle cold water, add to 
it a cup of cuctmiber liquid, stir until smooth, and pour 
into the cucumbers, which should be reduced by the cooking 



Salads 347 

one half. Turn into a wet mold and chill, and when 
thoroaghly cold place on a bed of lettuce leaves. Serve 
one slice on lettuce with each portion, covered with mayon- 
naise and garnished with olive curls, and pimentos. This 
will serve six people. 

Nut and Cucumber Salad 

Boil in three cups of water two cups of sugar, twelve 
cloves, and add one cup of vinegar. When the mixture 
threads from the spoon, remove it from the fire and add 
two and a half heaping tablespoons of gelatine that has 
been dissolved in a little boiling water. Stir careftdly 
and when the gelatine is dissolved strain and let it cool. 
Add one cup of hickory nut meats and a cup of sweet cu- 
cumber pickle thinly sliced, pour into a wet mold, and let 
it chill and set. Turn out on a bed of lettuce leaves, pour 
mayonnaise over it, and garnish on top with strips of red 
pepper. This will serve six people. 

Jelly and Cheese Salad 

Dissolve one tablespoon of gelatine in one cup of hot 
water. When cool add three ounces of grated cheese, one 
cup of whipped cream, a saltspoon of salt, a half saltspoon of 
pepper, and paprika to taste. Pour into small molds and 
when the jelly begins to harden cover the top with grated 
cheese. Serve on crisp lettuce leaves with French dressing. 
This will serve four people. 

Dutch Salad 

Pare and dice enough white ttimips to fill two big cups. 
Boil the squares in water until tender when pierced with a 
straw. Drain and set them to cool. Take one pint of 
highly seasoned tomato juice and add to it two tablespoons 
of powdered gelatine that has been dissolved in a little cold 
water; let it heat until the gelatine is all melted, then set 



348 Salads 

aside to cool. When cool, arrange the turnip squares in a 
wet mold and pour in a layer of the tomato; let that slightly 
stiffen, then add another layer of turnip, then the rest of the 
liquid. When ready to serve, cut the jelly with a sharp hot 
knife and serve on lettuce leaves, heaping mayonnaise 
on the top. Garnish with a radish rose in the center of 
each portion. This will serve six people. 

Shrimp Aspic Salad 

Take one can of shrimps or one pint of freshly boiled 
shrimps cut in pieces, sprinkle with the juice of a lemon, 
the juice of an onion, and a saltspoon of pepper, and let them 
stand until chilled. Have ready an aspic jelly ring made of 
one quart of chicken stock well seasoned, one tablespoon of 
lemon juice, a half teaspoon of celery salt, a half saltspoon 
of cayenne pepper, and one box of gelatine. When it is done 
and the gelatine is dissolved in it, strain and add green 
vegetable coloring until the desired color is obtained, then 
pour into a ring jelly mold. When ready turn on white 
lettuce leaves and drain the shrimps, adding to them one 
cup of finely chopped celery and one cup of chopped cuciun- 
ber. Toss lightly in mayonnaise dressing and fill the 
center of the ring with the salad, adding a little more mayon- 
naise on top, and garnishing with green pepper strips and 
truffles. This wiU serve six people. 

FRUIT SALADS 

* 

Peach Salad 

Plunge large, firm, ripe peaches enough to serve one as a 
portion into boiling water; let them stand thus a minute 
until the skin begins to curl; then remove the skin, halve 
and stone the peaches and set them aside to chill. Halve 
and stone a few white grapes; add to them two tablespoons 
of grated pineapple, a tablespoon of finely chopped pecan 
nut meats, a teaspoon each of chopped angeUca and candied 



Salads 349 

cherries. Pour over this mixttire a dressing made of three 
quarters of a cup of sweet heavy cream, two tablespoons of 
sugar, a pinch of salt, a tablespoon of tarragon vinegar, a tea 
spoon of lemon juice, and mix all thoroughly. Lay the 
two halves of one peach in deep, curly white lettuce leaves 
and fill each half with the mixture, placing a teaspoon of 
whipped cream on top of each with a half cherry in the 
center. 

Ftesh Rhubarb Salad 

Cut in small pieces enough rhubarb to make five cups, 
turn boiling water over it, and let stand ten minutes; drain, 
add fresh boiling water, boil until tender but not to pieces, 
add three quarters of a cup of sugar, and set away to cool. 
When cold, drain, add half a cup of chopped pecans, half a 
cup of finely-chopped celery. Have ready a boiled dressing 
made and chilled, using for it three tablespoons of flour 
with enough water to make a thin batter, a quarter of a cup 
of vinegar, and three quarters of a cup of water, three 
tablespoons of sugar, one teaspoon of melted butter, the 
yolks of four eggs, the white of one, saltspoon each of dry 
mustard and salt, and half a cup of water. Mix well all 
together and cook in a double boiler until of the right thick- 
ness, stirring constantly. When cold, just before using 
add a little whipped cream, and serve in white lettuce leaves 
garnished with strips of angelica. 

Cantaloupe Salad 

With a teaspoon cut away the inside of the melon and 
lay the little scooped-out pieces on ice, and chill the empty 
shells. Make some cream cheese balls with a few chopped 
nuts, a dash of sugar, and a tablespoon of sherry. When 
ready to serve put the pieces of melon and the cheese balls 
into the empty shells with lettuce cut into ribbons, and 
pour over it a dressing made as for the rhubarb salad. 



/ 



35^ Salads 

Casaba Salad 

Take a casaba melon, now procurable at nearly all fruit 
stands, and cut it in half; scoop out the inside by teaspoons 
and place them on ice to chill. Make some cheese balls, 
adding a few chopped nuts, a dash of sugar, a tablespoon of 
preserved ginger chopped fine, and a tablespoon of sherry. 
When ready to serve fill the empty shells with the chilled 
melon pieces, the cheese balls, and lettuce cut into rib- 
bons; pour over all a dressing made in the same way as for 
rhubarb salad. 

Ftune Salad 

Take half a pound of fancy prunes, wash carefully, and 
let them soak in very warm water for half an hour. Re- 
move the stones, slice in thin slices, and marinate in the 
juice of a lemon, a teaspoon of powdered sugar, and a cordial 
glass of apricot cordial for about one hour. Chop fine four 
salted brazil nuts and one strip of angelica and mix with 
mayonnaise made without mustard. Drain the fruit, 
add to it one cup of finely chopped celery, cut in a heart 
of white lettuce, toss all lightly in the salad dressing. 
Serve on deep lettuce leaves garnished with green cherry 
rings, placing a diamond shaped cheese sandwich on the 
side of each portion. 

Japanese Salad 

This dainty salad is served at an exclusive Japanese club 
of New York, and adds another unusual salad to the already 
long list. Chop two tart apples and add to them one cup of 
chopped celery. Dust all with a saltspoon of pepper and a 
half teaspoon of salt, add six sliced truffles, and a little 
finely chopped red pepper. Fold all in heavy mayonnaise 
and serve in lettuce leaves garnished with slices of preserved 
kumquats. 



Salads 35i 

Strawbeny and Raspbeny 

Arrange as many halved ripe strawberries and ripe 
raspberries as would fill a sauce plate, chill them, and when 
ready to serve arrange in a small deep white cabbage leaf , 
carefully washed and dried, and cover with a dressing made 
of a half cup of sour cream, juice of half a small lemon, a 
few drops of tarragon, half a teaspoon of sugar, a saltspoon 
of salt, and a half saltspoon of pepper. 

Manon and Prune Salad 

Stew in the usual way a pound of large French primes; 
when cold remove their stones and slip preserved marrons 
into their places, breaking the prune as little as possible. 
Mix the prunes with romaine that has been cut small, and 
just before serving dress the salad with a sour cream dressing 
made of one cup of sour cream, two tablespoons of sugar, 
a tablespoon of tarragon vinegar, and two of cider vinegar. 

Green Ahnond and Cantaloupe Salad 

Take three cantaloupes and scoop out the pulp with 
a teaspoon; take a cup of green almonds, slice thin or chop 
them and add to the melon; cut one heart of white lettuce 
with scissors and add one-half cup of chopped celery, serve 
in lettuce leaves after tossing in heavy French dressing, 
and garnish with strips of red pepper and olives stuffed 
with almonds. 

Ftunut Salad 

Take a jar of "frunut," which is preserved fruits and nuts 
together, drain, and let marinate one hour in a cup of ginger 
syrup, a gill of brandy, a dash of orange bitters, a teaspoon 
mixed of cinnamon, nutmeg, and cloves. Drain thoroughly, 
fold in one pint of whipped cream, and serve in white lettuce 
leaves. 



352 Salads 

Salad 



Take a half- jar of " Ptmcheezy, " put it in a white enamel 
strainer to drain until needed, prepare a grapefruit as for 
salad, and turn a wineglass of apricot brandy over it, with 
a saltspoon of nutmeg and a teaspoon of powdered sugar. 
When ready to dress the salad drain the juice from the 
fruit, mix the grapefruit and Puncheezy, and fill white 
lettuce leaves with the mixture, cover with mayonnaise 
made without mustard, to which some finely chopped 
English walnuts have been added. Serve at once, so that 
the fruit juices may not thin the salad dressing. 

Barberry Salad 

Gather perfect bunches of barberries, wash them carefully, 
remove the pips with a fine needle and let them marinate 
in French dressing for one hour. Remove the segments 
from one large, firm grapefruit, chill, and drain. When 
ready to lay up the salad take the hearts of white lettuce, 
break them up, and scatter over them the grapefruit pulp, 
then place the bunches of barberries on top. and turn over 
all a French dressing. Garnish with strips of red pepper. 

Banana Salad 

Take as many bananas as there are to be portions. Slice 
off lengthwise one strip of the peel and remove the banana 
carefully without breaking the rest of the skin. Dice the 
banana, dice three slices of fresh pineapple, removing the 
hard center, and add a quarter of a cup of chopped pecan 
nuts, a teaspoon of powdered sugar, a saltspoon of red 
pepper, the juice of a lemon, the juice of the heart of the 
pineapple, and a cordial glass of anisette. Let the mixture 
marinate twenty minutes, stirring it with a small wooden 
spatula every few minutes. Drain carefully and mix with 
mayonnaise made without mustard, to which a tablespoon 
of whipped cream is added just before using. Lay the 



Salads 353 

banana boats on lettuce leaves and fill lightly with the 
salad. Garnish with maraschino cherries and lay a cheese 
straw on each plate. 

Grape and Celery Salad 

Mix lightly one cup of finely chopped white celery with 

one large can of peeled Muscat grapes and dress with 

powdered sugar, a dessertspoon of ginger syrup» and a 

tablespoon of apricot cordial. Mix thoroughly, lay on 

white lettuce leaves, and garnish with green maraschino 
cherries. 

Cherry Salad 

Stone enough ox-heart cherries to make two cups, putting 
a hazel nut in each in place of the stone, sprinkle with 
powdered sugar, a grating of nutmeg, and let the mixture 
stand to drain. When ready to serve group each portion 
on a white lettuce leaf, covering it with mayonnaise. Gar- 
nish with strips of angelica. 

Mirabelle and Green Almond Salad 

For the Mirabelle and green almond salad take half a 
bottle of each, cutting the almonds fine, and make a good 
mayonnaise without mustard,' using sherry instead of vine- 
gar. Serve the salad in white lettuce leaves, garnished with 
olives stuffed with almonds. 

Fig Salad 

Take one half pound of figs and chop fine with a few 
pecan nuts, a small cup of fine chopped pineapple, and a 
small green pepper; mix with a rich mayonnaise dressing, 
place on white lettuce leaves, and garnish with olives. 

as 



SALAD DRESSINGS AND SAUCES 

There is but one kind of oil for salad dressings to be 
taken into consideration, that is the best, though so-called 
"just as good" kinds may masquerade under several 
names. The French olive oil and the Italian, with walnut 
oil for occasional use, will be found the best, though many 
•people regard refined cottonseed oil and peanut oil as fairly 
satisfactory. They are much cheaper, but they cannot 
compare with olive oil for smoothness of texture or rich- 
ness of flavor. If the cook will bind the neck of the oil 
bottle with a strip of blotting paper, renewing when needed, 
the bottle will not grease the shelf upon which it generally 
stands. 

Heavy French Dressing 

A half teaspoon of salt, a quarter teaspoon of pepper, six 
tablespoons of olive oil, two drops of tabasco sauce, a quar- 
ter teaspoon of Worcestershire sauce, four drops onion 
juice, a quarter teaspoon of mustard sauce; beat with an 
egg beater, adding slowly the juice of one lemon. Continue 
beating for ten minutes, then add slowly a tablespoon of 
tarragon vinegar, beat five minutes more, and set away in 
a cold place until ready for use. Just before using stir 
thoroughly with a fork, and if a little thick add another 
tablespoon of vinegar. 

French Dressmg Made with Vegetable or Peanut Oil 

One half cup of peanut oil, a teaspoon of Worcestershire 
sauce, a saltspoon of mixed mustard, a saltspoon of salt, a 

354 



Salad Dressings and Sauces 355 

dash of cayenne pepper, and two tablespoons of vinegar of 
any desired flavor. Beat thoroughly and it is ready for 
use. 

French dressing should be beaten with an egg beater 
during the process of mixing, that it may thoroughly blend; 
then if immediately chilled it will not separate or change 
color. It should alwa3rs be put away in a wide-mouthed 
bottle kept for the purpose, with a tight dean cork, and be 
shaken thoroughly before being used. 

Plain Mayonnaise 

Break the yolks of two eggs into a cold bowl, add a salt- 
spoon of salt and a half saltspoon of red pepper, and beat 
with a silver fork. Begin to add olive oil drop by drop until 
the mixture begins to thicken; continue dropping the oil 
and when the mixture gets quite thick add, drop by drop, 
strained lemon juice, alternating with the oU, and continue 
beating. This quantity of egg should take up a cup and a 
half of oil and the juice of half a large lemon. When the 
mayonnaise is as stiff as is desired it may be set away to 
chill ; and when ready to use, if it seems too heavy, blend 
with it a small quantity of whipped cream. 

Mayonnaise Made with Walnut Oil 

Take the yolks of two fresh eggs, a pinch of salt, a pinch 
of cayenne pepper, beat thoroughly with a fork in a cold 
bowl and add drop by drop walnut oil, adding now and then 
two or three drops of lemon juice; continue until the dress- 
ing is as thick as desired, which probably would require a cup 
at least of the oil, possibly more. Be sure that all ingredi- 
ents are very cold, which will insure success. If one desires 
a little more flavor than the lemon will impart, a few drops 
of tarragon vinegar may be added. This is made without 
mustard, so that it can be used where the salad is combined 
with fruits. 



35^ Salad Dressings and Sauces 

Mayonnaise witii Mustard 

Proceed in the same way as above, only adding a large 
saltspoon of mustard to the eggs and using olive oil instead 
of walnut, and this may be flavored with a little of the shalot 
or garlic vinegar, two or three drops only, or a few drops of 
onion juice. 

Russian 

Take one large cup of mayonnaise made with mustard and 
add to it enough tomato ketchup to color it a deep pink, a 
teaspoon each of chopped chives, chopped red pepper, one 
finely chopped gherkin, and a teaspoon of onion juice. 

Boiled Mayonnaise 

Cream together three tablespoons of flour and two table- 
spoons of olive oil, Add one cup of boiling water to one 
quarter cup of vinegar, pour slowly over the flour and oil, 
add a half teaspoon of salt and a half saltspoon of pepper. 
Let the sauce slowly come to boiling point and thicken. Re- 
move from the fire and beat in three egg yolks. Mix thor- 
oughly, then, with an egg beater, beat in three quarters of a 
cup of olive oil, a teaspoon at a time; and then more rapidly 
as the sauce begins to thicken. When all is thoroughly 
beaten set away to chill. 

Mayonnaise Made without Oil 

Beat two eggs with four tablespoons of vinegar, add a 
dessertspoon of butter, a saltspoon of pepper, a half teaspoon 
of salt, a saltspoon of mustard, and the same amount of 
paprika and a dessertspoon of sugar. Cook in a double 
boiler until the dressing is smooth, but do not cook long 
enough to curdle it. When done set away to chill. 

What is known as "white mayonnaise" has gained much 
popularity because of its delicacy of flavor and its adapt- 



Salad Dressings and Sauces 357 

ability to variotis fruit salads. To make this, stiffly whipped 
cream is added to mayonnaise until the desired lightness of 
color and texture is gained. 

Should mayonnaise made the day before separate or 
crack it may be brought back to the right consistency by 
beating a fresh egg yolk and adding the mayonnaise to it a 
teaspoon at a time. This is like re-making it, but it is the 
only way it can be made tisable. 

For jellying mayonnaise in which chicken or other meat 
is to be molded allow four teaspoons of gelatine powder, 
softened in a little (X)ld water then dissolved in four table- 
spoons of boiling water, to two cups of the plain mayon- 
naise. 

Bofled Dressing 

One tablespoon of dry mustard, two of sugar, saltspoon of 
salt, half saltspoon of pepper, lump of butter the size of an 
eggf one egg, and half a cup of vinegar; mix and blend; then 
boil, stirring constantly tmtil the right consistency, and pour 
over the cabbage slaw. 

Dressing for Fruit Salad 

Take three tablespoons of flour, enough water to make 
a thin batter, a quarter cup of vinegar, filled up with water; 
one cup of water, three tablespoons of sugar, one teaspoon 
butter, yolks of four eggs and white of one, a saltspoon of 
dry mustard, and a saltspoon of salt. Mix together and 
cook in double boiler until thick, stirring all the time. Chill , 
the dressing, and just before time to S€T^e the salad add a 
little whipped cream. 

Sweet Cream Dressing 

One cup of sweet cream, a teaspoon of salt, a tablespoon 
of sugar, three drops of tabasco sauce, two tablespoons of 
tarragon vinegar; stir thoroughly until all is blended, chill, 
and serve with any combination vegetable salad. Sour 



35^ Salad Dressings and Sauces 

cream may be used in place of the sweet cream if more 
convenient. 

The sour or sweet cream dressings made with a cup of 
cream, two tablespoons of sugar, and the juice of a lemon 
will be much improved by the juice of half a lemon and a 
tablespoon of any of the seasoned vinegars, especially the 
shalot vinegar. 

Thousand Island Dressing 

Chop fine one onion, two small cold boiled beets, one hard- 
boiled egg, and mix with fotir tablespoons of thin mayon- 
naise and a tablespoon of chili sauce; mix thoroughly and 
add three tablespoons of cream. Select the brand of chili 
sauce with the finest ingredients; if they seem too coarse, 
mash them through a fine sieve. This dressing will be 
found excellent with white lettuce and cucumbers. 

Prussian Sauce 

Take four tablespoons of horseradish, two tablespoons of 
bread crumbs that have been fried in butter and drained, 
a saltspoon of salt, a half saltspoon of pepper, a tablespoon 
of sugar, a teaspoon of onion juice, a teaspoon of finely 
chopped parsley, and a cup of sour cream. Beat thoroughly 
with a fork and serve with potato or cabbage salad. 

Sauce Piquant 

This is a good sauce to use with any cold fish salad. A 
half cup of tomato ketchup, a teaspoon of Worcestershire 
sauce, a teaspoon of mushroom ketchup, the juice. of an 
onion, a half teaspoon of hot southern sauce, a tablespoon of 
chutney S3rrup; blend thoroughly and add a tablespoon 
of tarragon vinegar. 

Sauce Mandalay 

To a good French dressing add one tablespoon of Manda- 
lay sauce, a teaspoon of chopped olives, juice of a small 
onion, and a teaspoon of finely chopped chives. 



Salad Dressings and Sauces 359 

Ambrosia Sauce 

This sauce is to use with a fruit salad consisting of white 
grapes, oranges, bananas, grapefruit, and a little diced 
pineapple. Take the juice of one lemon, the juice of half 
an orange, and half a cup of grated pineapple. Stir to- 
gether and add three quarters of a cup of strained honey 
that is warm enough to blend thoroughly; add a teaspoon 
of ginger s}rrup, and after the fruit has been chilled and 
drained pour over the sauce and heap a little whipped 
cream on top. 

Mustard Sauce 

Chop a half green pepper and a quarter of a small cucum- 
ber fine, after removing seeds, add to a half cup of mustard 
dressing, and after mixing add a quarter cup of thin French 
dressing. 

Sauce Violette 

To a half cup of French dressing add a teaspoon of mou- 
tarde violette de brive and mix well before using. 

French Mustard Sauce 

If one desires to make French mustard to add to dressing 
this is a good recipe for it : Take a tablespoon of whole mixed 
8i>ices and three lumps of sugar, let come to a boil in a pint 
of vinegar. Take four tablespoons of dry mustard and mix 
to a stiff paste with a little vinegar. Let the spiced vinegar 
boil five minutes, strain, and turn slowly into the mustard, 
beating it with a red-hot iron beater. This is needed for the 
smoothness, and if it is properly mixed wiU keep. weU 
corked, for months. Put it into wide-mouthed bottles and 
cork. 



360 Salad Dressings and Sauces 

English Mustard 

The sharp English mustard one makes at home as it is 
needed, and this is a good recipe to follow: One tablespoon 
of dry mustard, a teaspoon of flour, mix with a tablespoon 
of water and a few drops of vinegar to the right consistency ; 
cover closely, and this mustard will not dry out as quickly 
as when made with all vinegar and no flour. 



. . («i 



DAIRY PRODUCTS 

Eggs 

There is but one sort of egg permissible in first-class 
cookery — ^the strictly fresh egg; and as this is the egg which 
is most expensive, we have every right to demand perfec- 
tion, even to the extent of having each egg stamped with its 
date. So-called state eggs, or case eggs, are often very 
good and quite fresh enough for ordinary cookery, but, for 
the finest of egg dishes, where the flavor of the egg counts, 
the egg from one day to a week old is the only one to 
use. 

There are a number of methods of keeping eggs fresh. 
One is to smear the shells with sweet oil, then to pack the 
eggs away in sawdust so that they do not touch one another. 
Another way is to pack the eggs in a deep bowl, cover 
them with lime water, and put the bowl in a cool place. 

There is hardly a housekeeper who does not realize the 
value of egg dishes in an emergency and also for breakfast 
and Itmcheon dishes. Eggs are always in the house and 
are the least perishable of made-dish commodities. 

There are a number of tests for fresh eggs ; one is to hold 
the egg in the right hand against a strong light; if the yolk 
appears round and pltunp in the center, and the white 
dear, it is safe to judge that the egg is fresh. Again, the 
egg may be dropped into a bowl of water and if it is per- 
fectly fresh it will sink and rest upon its side; if it floats it 
is very stale. Boiling an egg is a test of freshness also. 

361 



362 Dairy Producta 

Boiled, fried, and scrambled the egg seems to be best 
known to all nations. The cooking is varied, however, by 
a number of odd disguising sauces as the following recipes 
show. In the hottest climates the eggs are most highly 
seasoned and the dishes most complicated, while the cooler 
the countries the simpler and less highly seasoned dishes 
are served by the best cooks. 

Poached eggs, instead of being done the old-fashioned 
way in water, may be poached in strained honey which gives 
them a peculiarly attractive flavor. They aire slipped as 
usual onto buttered toast squares, dusted lightly with 
pepper and salt, and topped by a tablespoon of whipped 
cream. 

In boiling eggs the water shoiild be boiling gently when 
the eggs are put in with a spoon and the spoon not with- 
drawn until the egg rests upon the bottom of the saucepan. 
The proper time for boiling is from three to four minutes, 
according to the way the egg is liked. For hard-boiled eggs 
six to seven n^nutes will be found the proper time. If the 
eggs are large, Uke those of the black Spanish fowls, allow 
them an extra half minute in cooking. 

Duck's eggs are usually so strongly flavored that plain 
boiled they are seldom eaten. They are not bad, however, 
for cooking, as they are quite rich and one duck's egg will 
go as far as two hen's eggs. 



Poached Egg with Cream Sauce 

Have ready heated before poaching the egg in boiling 
water, a half gill of cream that has a saltspoon of salt, a half 
saltspoon of pepper, a small piece of butter, and a saltspoon 
of sugar in it. Add to the boiling water in which the egg 
is to be poached two tablespoons of vinegar and a pinch of 
salt. This wiU firm the eggs and prepare them for the 
sauce. When the egg is poached remove with a slicer and 
slip onto a toast round, potu* the hot cream sauce over the 
egg» and serve at once. 



Dairy Products 363 

Tomato Eggs 

Boil six eggs hard and cut them in halves. Boil, skin, and 
dice one small canned tongue. Make a good savory 
tomato sauce by using one can of tomatoes, one bay leaf, 
three cloves, a diced carrot, one onipn, a shalot, and a 
small btmch of parsley chopped fine. Boil for half an hour, 
strain, thicken with a little butter and flour rubbed to a 
paste, add pepper and salt to taste and a saltspoon of sugar. 
Put in the egg halves and the diced tongue and allow them 
to heat through. Turn into a covered dish, sprinkle a little 
parmesan cheese over the top, and send to table. 

Baked Eggs 

Boil eight eggs hard. When cold cut lengthwise, remove 
the yolks and make a paste of them with a tablespoon of 
butter, a saltspoon each of pepper and salt, a small grated 
onion, and enough cream to make a meditun paste. Fill the 
egg whites with the ntiixture and tie them together with tiny 
strips of kitchen tape. Roll them in grated cheese and fine 
bread crumbs that have a dash of sugar and pepper with 
them, then lay them in a well buttered baking dish. As they 
cook baste with a little melted butter and cream ; bake a deli- 
cate brown. Serve in a napkin garnished with parsley, and 
add to the little dish gravy a half cup of whipped cream; 
this sauce is served in a small tureen with the eggs. 

Eggs Mignon 

Slice two onions very thin; drain twelve button mush- 
rooms, cut them in half, and saut^ them with the onions in 
butter. Boil six eggs hard, when done cut them in half 
and remove the yolks. Slice the whites in rings. Have 
ready a half pint of good brown gravy, add to it the onion 
and mushrooms and the egg rings. When all is hot drop in 
the half yolks and allow them to heat one minute. Turn 
into a hot covered dish and serve. This is sufficient for four 
persons. 



3^4 Dairy Frodxicta 

Scrambled Eggs and Sardines 

Open a box of sardines, drain them well and remove all 
skin and bone; flake them fairly small; there should be two 
heaping tablespoons of the fish. Beat f otir eggs, season with 
pepper and salt, and add a tablespoon of milk to them. 
Melt a half ounce of butter in a steel frying pan, stir in the 
fish, then turn in the eggs and beat all lightly with a silver 
fork. When scrambled and done so that the pan is left 
clean, heap on a hot platter, garnishing with crisp, fresh 
cress. 

Shirred Eggs with Ham 

Take one cup of finely chopped cold boiled ham and add 
to it one teaspoon of French mustard, two of Worcester- 
shire sauce, a tablespoon of ketchup, a quarter saltspoon of 
red pepper, and a little melted butter. Divide the portion 
into six well buttered egg dishes. Break two eggs into each 
dish, dust with pepper and salt, and bake three to five min- 
utes, according to the oven. 

Eggs with Grayfish 

Boil six eggs hard, shell and cut them in halves length- 
wise. Remove the yolks and mash them to a paste, adding 
a tablespoon of melted butter, a teaspoon each of Worces- 
tershire and horseradish. Take a third of a can of grayfish, 
bone and flake it, then work it into the egg paste. When 
thoroughly mixed fill the egg whites and tie the eggs to- 
gether with kitchen tape. Put the eggs in a buttered 
casserole, cover with a pint of good gravy, and bake in a 
moderate oven for one hour. 

Scotch Woodcock 

Make a white sauce of one tablespoon each of butter and 
flour, blended with a cup of cold milk and a pinch of salt. 
When smooth, add six hard-boiled eggs chopped fine, a dash 



Dairy Prod\icts 365 

of pepper, two tablespoons of bread crumbs that have been 
fried in butter, and a tablespoon of finely grated cheese; 
mix well and serve on slices of hot buttered toast. 

Eggs au Miroir 

Butter a baking dish thickly with good fresh butter and 
melt it. Break four eggs into it as though for poaching; 
dust them Ughtly with pepper and salt and dot the tops 
with little pieces of butter. Put the dish on a hot plate 
in the oven and let it remain long enough to set the whites 
of the eggs. Serve at once in the same dish. 



• ««• 



Eggs 

Boil eight eggs hard. Shell and cut lengthways, remov- 
ing the yolks. Make a good cream sauce, not too thick, and 
drop the whites into it long enough to heat. Turn all over 
buttered toast on a hot platter and put the yolks through a 
ricer over the top. 

American Eggs 

Needless to say the open-eyed fried egg served with 
broiled or fried ham is the favorite egg, and finds its way 
to all of the best hotel and restaurant menus. 

Chinese Eggs 

Cut six three-inch pieces of toast, butter lightly. Slice 
lean bacon very thin, broil a minute on each side, cut in two, 
and place on the toast. Break into a smaU hot pan with a 
half gill of melted butter six eggs, sprinkle each with a tea- 
spoon of finely grated cooked ham, a pinch of salt and the 
same of pepper; cook two minutes, then set in the oven one 
minute, place each egg on the toast. Brown one ounce of 
butter, add to it one teaspoon of vinegar, a saltspoon of 
curry powder, boil up once and potir over the eggs. 



366 Dairx Products 

French Eggs 

Boil six eggs hard, strip off the shells, and cut in quarters. 
Arrange on a dish, and make the following sauce: One large 
tablespoon of butter, a tablespoon of flour, and stir over the 
fire until it thickens; pour in slowly a pint of rich milk, 
boil it, adding another tablespoon of butter and the season- 
ing and a teaspoon of minced parsley, boil five minutes, add 
the juice of half a lemon. Pour over the sauce and garnish 
with parsley. 

German Eggs 

Wash and boil two quarts of spinach, chop fine, and drain, 
then mix with a rich cream sauce, mold so that the top may 
be covered with poached eggs covered with a little grated 
cheese, put in hot oven a minute to melt, then serve. 

Hungarian Eggs 

Arrange hard-boiled eggs and cold boiled potatoes sliced 
in thick slices in alternate layers, season with butter, a 
saltspoon each of pepper and salt, and pour over the top 
enough sour cream to cover the ingredients and bake a 
delicate brown. 

Irish Eggs 

Place on deUcately broiled sUces of bacon poached eggs 
and cover them with a rich cream sauce. Garnish with 
toast sippets. 

Italian Eggs 

Make as many little molds of rice as there are guests at 
table, lay a poached egg on the top of each, and pour over 
them a sauce of tomatoes to which a pinch of saffron has 
been added and three finely minced anchovies; season with 
paprika and garnish with trufiles. 



Dairy Prodxicta 367 

Norwegian Eggs 

Place on a platter large flakes of hot smoked salmon, 
scramble six eggs in butter, season and spread over the fish, 
and serve hot. 

Russian Eggs 

On delicate slices of toast spread a layer of caviar, place a 
fresh poached egg on top,^ season with a quarter saltspoon of 
pepper, a pinch of salt and a few drops of lemon juice; 
garnish with parsley and serve. 

Scotch Eggs 

Boil six eggs hard, for about seven minutes; when done 
strip from the shells, roll them in a good forcemeat mixture, 
and fry in very hot lard; drain and lay on the platter with a 
pint of good brown gravy poured over them. 

Turkish Eggs 

Boil six kidneys and six chicken livers and hearts with an 
onion and a spice bag, throwing off the water four times. 
Make a brown sauce, pour on a hot platter with as many 
poached eggs on top as there are portions to be served. 
Garnish with parsley. 



Eggs 

Take two hard-boiled eggs, one fresh tomato, some freshly 
boiled cold string beans, lettuce leaves, and anchovies. 
Arrange the lettuce on a small plate, cut each egg into five 
slices, and arrange on the lettuce, then decorate with 
anchovies; place the string beans on one side, the tomato, 
cut in quarters, on the other. Make a vtnaierette sauce of 
shalots, fine herbs, a half teaspoon of French mustard, one 
teaspoon of chili sauce, the yolk of a hard-boiled eeg, salt. 



368 Dairx Products 

pepper, vinegar, and oil to taste. Mix thoroughly, strain 
through a fine sieve, and pour over the eggs. 

OMELET RECIPES 

Plain Omelet 

A four-egg omelet is sufficient for three people. 

Break foiu* eggs into a bowl and beat them with a fork so 
as to thoroughly mix the whites and yolks. Add three 
tablespoons of warm water, a half saltspoon of pepper, and 
a half saltspoon of salt. Place in the omelet pan a round- 
ing tablespoon of butter and when hot turn in the omelet. 
Shake the pan continuously, raising the edges of the omelet 
with a limber knife to allow the thin part to nm under- 
neath. When the omelet is set turn or fold it, have ready 
heated the omelet plate, and turn the omelet onto it. 
Garnish with parsley and send at once to table. 

Spanish Omelet 

For lovers of Spanish omelet there is a new bottled filling 
which saves time and trouble in the preparation of the 
vegetables. Make a five-egg omelet, using four tablespoons 
of the filling, which may be put in a tiny saucepan with a 
quarter cup of melted butter, a tablespoon of ketchup, and 
three drops of hot southern sauce to heat. Pour in the 
center and fold the omelet as usual; garnish with oUve 
rings and strips of red pepper. 

Rarebit Omelet 

This appetizing dish may be served for breakfast, lunch- 
eon, or supper in the place of meat. It is a combination 
of cheese and eggs and yet is entirely different from the 
ordinary cheese omelet. Beat the required number of 
eggs until very light, as for an omelet, and add almost the 
same quantity of grated American cheese. Season the 
mixture to taste with salt, celery salt, and black pepper; 



Dairy Products 369 

add one tablespoon of cream and pour it into a heated 
omelet pan in which has been heated a tablespoon of 
butter. Do not stir the mixture, but let it cook like an 
omelet, and just before turning over sprinkle with a little 
chopped parsley. Brown delicately and serve immedi- 
ately on a heated platter. 

Newburg Omelet 

Parboil, trim, and dice one pair of sweetbreads; make a 
Newburg sauce, slice thin four truffles and put them in the 
sauce with the sweetbreads; add a teaspoon of onion juice 
and wipe the inside of the omelet pan with a half bud of 
garlic before putting in the tablespoon of butter to melt. 
Beat eight eggs, adding a teaspoon of salt, a saltspoon of 
white pepper, one half gill of cream, half a saltspoon of 
cayenne. Have omelet pan hot, turn in the eggs, make the 
omelet as usual, and when it is set add the Newburg, first 
draining oflE the extra sauce. Fold it over, turn onto a 
hot plate, garnish with toast sippets and sprays of fresh 
cress. Serve the remainder of the Newburg sauce very 
hot in smaU tureen; if it is too thick thin it slightly with a 
little hot cream. This is a very delicious Itmcheon dish. 

Hessian Omelet 

One hard-boiled egg, four olives, One pepper, a few sprays 
of chives. Chop all together, add a teaspoon of Worcester- 
shire sauce, a tablespoon of ketchup, a teaspoon of onion 
juice, a tablespoon of apple sauce, a dash of red pepper, and 
three quarters of a cup of finely chopped cold boiled ham. 
Mix thoroughly, put in small saucepan to heat in a heaping 
tablespoon of butter; when hot and ready to turn into the 
omelet add two tablespoons of whipped cream. Make 
a six-egg omelet, turn the mixture in before folding and 
serve on hot plate garnished with sprays of parsley and 
lemon quarters. 

34 



37^ Dairx Products 

Lobster Omelet 

Take one cup of cold boiled lobster cut in small pieces 
and cook until thickened slightly with half a cup of milk 
and a gill of cream, a dash of red pepper and a saltspoon 
of salt and one beaten egg. Have ready the omelet pan 
in which there is a tablespoon of melted butter, ttim in six 
well-beaten eggs, cook them the usual way, turn the lobster 
in the center, and fold over the edges. When done turn onto 
a hot omelet plate and garnish with sUces of lemon dipped 
into finely chopped parsley. 

Onion Omelet 

Put a tablespoon of butter or fine drippings into a frying 
pan and add four sliced onions, dust with isalt, pepper, and a 
teaspoon of sugar, cook until done, then add two beaten 
eggs for each person at table. Beat thoroughly, then make 
the omelet in the usual way. Turn and serve hot garnished 
with parsley. 

Ripe Olive Omelet 

Drain one small bottle of ripe olives, add to them the 
whites of two cold boiled eggs diced and a tablespoon 
of chutney syrup. Make a five-egg omelet, have the olive 
mixture warmed in a tiny saucepan, but not cooked, turn 
into the omelet and fold as usual. Turn on a hot dish, 
and garnish with a few sprays of carefully washed fresh 
mint dusted with powdered sugar. 

Omelet with Cheese 

'Make the omelet in the usual way and have ready, just 
before it is turned, the whites of two eggs stiffly beaten, 
and a quarter of a cup of grated cheese and a saltspoon each 
of pepper and salt beaten with them. Spread the filling on 
the omelet, then fold it, and while it is browning on either 



Dairy Products 371 

side the cheese will cook sufficiently. Serve garnished with 
toast sippets and parsley. 

Bachelor's Omelet 

Make a thin cream of a teaspoon of flour and a half tea- 
cup of milk. Beat three eggs and mix them with the cream, 
adding a pinch of salt and a half saltspoon of pepper. Melt 
two ounces of butter in a small frying pan and when it is 
hot turn in the mixture; when the omelet begins to set, 
sprinkle over it some finely chopped herbs and a little 
chopped onion that has been sauted in a little butter. Fold 
the omelet in the usual way and serve it on a hot dish 
garnished with a few sprays of parsley. 

SWEET OMELETS 

Omelet SoufBl^ 

Separate the whites from the yolks of six eggs, add to the 
yolks five tablespoons of sugar, one dessertspoon of rice 
flour, flavoring of vanilla, and stir the ingredients together. 
Put three ounces of butter in a small frying pan and whip the 
whites very light and mix with the batter. As soon as the 
butter begins to bubble pour in the batter and set it over a 
gentle fire. When the omelette is set turn over the edges 
so as to make it oval shape, and slip it on a well buttered 
silvered dish. Put it into the oven and bake eight min- 
utes; sprinkle with powdered sugar, and serve quickly. 

A Ftuit Omelet 

Separate six eggs and beat very light, add a half teaspoon 
of salt and three tablespoons of milk. Put into the pan one 
tablespoon of butter and when hot pour in the omelet. 
Shake on the hottest part of the stove and when it begins 
to thicken set it on the grate of the oven to set. Remove 
and add a small cup of shredded pineapple that has been 



372 Dairx Products 

dusted with sugar, and a teaspoon of sherry. Fold the 
omelet and serve on a hot plate. 

Omelet au Flame 

Beat six eggs very light with a silver fork, add a pinch 
of salt and two pinches of sugar, fry the omelet in the 
usual way, but before folding it spread it with three table- 
spoons of apricot jam. Fold it and dry in the oven, then 
pour over it a gill of Jamaica rum. Set it on fire and 
serve the omelet burning. 

Banana Omelet 

Add to eight eggs half a gill of cream, a teaspoon of salt, 
and two saltspoons of white pepper. Beat with a fork for 
two minutes. Fry two peeled and sliced bananas in melted 
butter for five minutes, toss the pan frequently while the 
bananas are frying, and then turn in the eggs. Beat 
them for two minutes, then let them rest half a minute, 
fold up the sides, let the omelet stand for a minute, then 
turn onto a hot dish. 

Orange Omelet 

Add three tablespoons of orange juice and two tablespoons 
of sugar to three well beaten eggs, fry the omelet in the 
usual way, and place in the center before folding one thinly 
sliced orange dusted with sugar. When ready to serve 
garnish the top with orange quarters dipped in sugar. 

Strawberry Omelet 

Wash and hull one pint of very ripe strawberries, cut them 
in half and sprinkle with half a cup of powdered sugar, two 
tablespoons of water, and half a teaspoon of vanilki; mix 
thoroughly and let stand fifteen minutes. Break eight 
fresh eggs into a bowl, add two saltspoons of salt, two 



Dairx Products 373 

tablespoons of sugar, and half a gill of cream. Beat briskly 
for two n[iinutes. Have half an ounce of butter melted in 
the omelet pan, turn the eggs into it, beat them with a fork 
for about two minutes, then let them rest half a minute. 
Turn one fourth of the berries into the center of the omelet, 
fold up the two opposite sides to join the center, let it 
stand for just half a minute, and then turn out on a hot 
dish. Mash the remainder of the berries through a sieve 
over the top of the omelet, sprinkle lightly with a little 
powdered sugar, and serve. 

Rhubarb Omelet 

Take one cup of stewed fresh rhubarb (drained) *and 
add to it one tablespoon of preserved ginger syrup. See 
that the rhubarb has not been stewed to pieces, but left in 
fairly firm cubes. Make a six-egg omelet, drain the mix- 
ture again and add it before folding the omelet; serve on a 
hot platter, dust with powdered sugar, and garnish with 
cheese toast sippets* 

MILK 

Owing to effective work done by Health Boards through- 
out the country the purity of milk offered for sale has 
become fairly satisfactory. The cleanliness insisted upon 
in the care of the cattle, in their housing and health, the 
strict supervision in modifying, pasteurizing the milk, and 
packing it in perfect containers to reach its destination as 
quickly as possible, has made itself felt in the lessening of 
infant mortality. The healthful effects following the use of 
buttermilk, which is the residue after churning, has given 
rise to the new bottled fermented drinks, of which koumys 
and fermillac are members, all being comprehended under 
the Bulgarian group (milk soured with the Bulgarian 
bacillus). 

Milk should be swallowed very slowly. Wnen swallowed 
rapidly it is very hard of digestion. 



374 Dairy* Products 

Milk should be served cool but never iced. 

To scald milk put it into a double boiler and when it is 
warm enough to steam slightly when a spoon is put into it, 
it is sufficiently hot. Never allow it to boil. 

To sterilize milk pour it into clean bottles, stop them 
with soft cotton corks, place them in a sterilizer, or steamer, 
and steam them continuously for an hour and a half. 

Cream 

Cream twenty-four hours old will whip much better and 
more quickly than new cream. As soon as the cream is 
whipped place it in an enamel strainer over an enamel bowl 
so that it may drain while it chills. 

Devonsliire Cream 

In cool weather let the milk stand twenty-four hoius 
or half that time in warm weather in the milk pan. Then 
set the pan on the stove and let it remain until the milk 
is quite hot but it must not boil. When it is done suflB- 
dently the undulations on the surface will look thick and 
small rings appear. The time for scalding cream depends 
on the size of the pan and the heat of the fire, but the slower 
it is done the better. The pan should be placed in the dairy 
when the cream is sufficiently scalded, and skinmied the 
following day. This cream is excellent on fresh fruit, and 
in Devonshire, England, butter is made from it. 

Devonshire Junket 

Heat blood warm one quart of milk ; add to it one dessert- 
spoon of sugar and two of Shiim's liquid rennet. Pour out 
into a deep dish with two tablespoons of brandy, cover and 
put in a cool place to set. Then spread over the top a thick 
cream, a grating of nutmeg, a little powdered sugar, and 
serve. 



Dairy Producto 375 

BUTTER 

Butter for general table use is the salt creamy butter 
and the so-called sweet butter (unsalted) ; besides these there 
are the various nut and fancy butters which are used for 
special occasions. 

In choosing fresh butter it should smell delidously and 
be of an equal color all through; if it smells sour it has not 
been sufficiently washed to free it from the buttermilk, and 
if it is veiny and crumbly it has probably been worked with 
an inferior or stale sort of butter. 

Where butter is purchased a large tub at a time the first 
thing to do is to turn it out, scrape the outside of the butter 
with a knife, wipe the inside of the tub with a dean doth and 
sprinkle all around with salt ; put back the butter, cover with 
a salted cloth, and put on the lid to exdude the air. If the 
butter proves too salt when it is taken from the tub a small 
portion at a time it should be careftdly washed with clean 
water. 

One word of caution is necessary regarding randd butter. 
All people realize that it is not fit to use on bread, yet are 
tempted to use it in cooking, where the unpleasant addity 
can be more or less disguised. This is a great mistake as it 
is quite poisonous in its nature, and never under any circum- 
stances should one be tempted to use butter that is turning. 
In fact, the more you can do without the use of butter that 
has been subjected to the influence of heat the better. 
Porcelain butter chums are very handy for small family 
use, and by saving all the sour milk and cream during the 
week one may have quite a nice pat of fresh butter for 
Sunday use, and also some real buttermilk to drink. 

Faiiy Butter 

Take the yolks of two hard-boiled eggs and beat them 
smooth to a paste with one tablespoon of orange flower water 
and two tablespoons of powdered sugar. When thoroughly 
smooth add them to one quarter pound of fresh butter and 



37^ Dairy Products 

work all into a smooth paste; when blended, put into a 
strong cheesecloth square that has been wrung out of ice 
water and squeeze the butter through it onto a cold plate. 
As the butter is forced through the meshes of the cloth it will 
come out in odd-shaped pieces, and it is very dainty to serve 
in this way with fresh hot biscuit or bread. 

CHEESE 

Cheese usually agrees or decidedly disagrees with people 
at once, which decides the question for each individual 
case whether or not it shall have a place in the daily menu. 
However, there may be "extenuating circumstances," 
and a cooked cheese dish may often be enjoyed by a person 
when the stomach has rejected it in its natural state. Milk 
and cheese taken at the same meal have been known to 
bring on the most violent case of indigestion. Sometimes 
cheese taken with wine or liquor has been known to have 
the same effect. While it is acceptable to nearly all diners 
at the end of the meal, those of sedentary habits should be 
wary of over-indulgence in quantity. 

The very best way to cut soft or crumbly cheese is with a 
stout white linen thread, as this cuts perfectly without the 
least bit of waste. The more crumbly a cheese is the more 
easily it is digested. 

If buying a considerable quantity of cheese first test a 
little piece by melting it in a little milk in a double boiler. 
If it assumes a granulated appearance it is the right sort to 
buy. But if it gets tough and stringy it lacks nutriment 
and will be indigestible. To keep cheese moist that is in 
daily use, wrap it in a moist cloth, then cover and set away 
in a cool place. 

To ripen an Edam cheese run the cheese tryer through a 
fresh one and fill the opening with good brandy. Let it 
stand for three weeks, and the flavor will be greatly im- 
proved. 

Cheeses may be kept in a perfect state for a long time 



Dairy Producta 377 

by smearing them over with a coating of melted suet, or by 
covering them with parchment that has been made pliable 
by soaking in water. 

For grating the dairy cheeses will be found the best. 
They have the richest flavor for cooking. 

A piece of fresh Parmesan cheese grated at home is far 
better in flavor and stronger than that purchased in the 
bottles ready grated. 

Parmesan cheese is made in Italy and of the skimmed 
cow's milk, and none is offered at market before it is six 
months old. The high flavor of it is due to the rich herb- 
age of the meadows where the cows are pastured. English 
Stilton cheese is often called the British Parmesan and is 
considered the finest of table cheeses. 

If a large quantity of cheese is purchased at once, part 
may be covered with thickly buttered white paper to keep 
it. Smaller pieces may be wrapped in a damp doth. 
Cheese keeps best in a damp, cool place covered from the 
air. It may also be covered with cloths wet with good 
brandy, which adds richness to the flavor as well as keeping 
it soft and moist. 

To Make Cream Cheese 

Cream cheese dishes have grown to be so popular an 
addition to the daily menu that cooks are experimenting in 
novel ways of serving it. 

Some people in making the home-made cream cheese use 
the sour cream, turning it into a cheesecloth bag and letting 
it drain over night, then removing it and adding seasoning 
and packing it in a mold until needed, then turning it out 
and eating it with fresh cream. But the English way of 
making it is to take three pints of heavy rich cream and 
turn it into a cheese bag that has been wet with cold water 
and hang it for seven or eight dajrs in a cool place; then 
change it to a fresh bag for a day and then into a mold, 
pressing a weight on it for two days; then it is ready for use 
and cuts like butter. 



378 Dairy Producta 

Bohemian Pdt Cheese 

Take one quart of sweet milk and one quart of sour milk, 
turn them both into a basin and set the basin into a larger 
container filled with hot water, being sure that none of the 
water gets into the milk. Push it to the back of the stove 
where it will remain at an even temperature, below boiling 
point. The milk must not boil. When the curd is set, 
drain off the milk, break it up finely with a fork, and pack it 
into little basket openwork molds; then set it aside to cool. 
When cold, serve the cheese with any good jam, or with salt 
and fresh cream. 

Cream Cheese Pi 



Season and soften one package of cream cheese with a 
tablespoon of catsup, a teaspoon of onion juice, a teaspoon 
of Worcestershire sauce, a saltspoon of sugar, a dessert- 
spoon of p4t6-de-fois-gras, three olives, and the heart of a 
stalk of celery chopped fine. Roll into a good-sized cylinder, 
chiU, and serve in slices. 

Cream Cheese and Chestnut Pur^e 

Season as desired a large package of cream cheese and 
add enough sweet cream to make a stiff but pliable paste. 
Roll out to half an inch thickness and cut into rounds or 
fancy shapes. Each portion consists of one round served 
with a dessertspoon of the marron pur^ which comes 
bottled. 

Cheese Straws 

The ever popular cheese straws are made in the following 
way: 

Two ounces of butter, two ounces of flotir, two ounces of 
breadcrumbs, two ounces of grated cheese, a saltspoon each 
of salt and pepper. Cream all together, roU fairly thin, cut in 
finger strips, and bake on white writing paper in a fair oven. 



Dairy Producta 379 

There is another way of making them that is also good, 
and that is with puff paste rolled thin and the grated cheese 
sprinkled over it, seasoned with salt and pepper. Fold the 
crust three times and then roll it and cut in convenient 
lengths. Bake a delicate brown. When cold pile log cabin 
fashion on a napkin to serve. 

Welsh Rarebit 

The following is one of the best known redpes for Welsh 
rarebit now in use: 

Shave into thin strips or slices two cups of rich dairy 
cheese. Put into a saucepan with enough ale or beer to 
moisten but not to make it too thin when it is melted. Add 
a smaU lump of butter and stir continuously one way until 
perfectly melted. Then add a saltspoon each of salt and 
pepper and a teaspoon of English mustard. When aU is 
melted take from the fire, and add an egg well beaten, stir 
carefully, then turn the mixture over buttered toast on hot 
plates and serve. 

Toast 



1 1 U4 1 1 



If you wish to serve Camembert cheese in a novel form, 
prepare it once in the form of Camembert toast and you will 
be sure to repeat the experiment. Remove the crust from a 
ripe Camembert cheese and spread it quite thickly over 
slices of brown bread. Dust the top with a little salt and 
a liberal amount of pepper and place the toast under the 
broiler of the gas range. Serve as soon as the top has the 
appearance of a rich brown crust. 

Cheese in Ramekins 

Stew for five minutes a can of French peas, drain, and 
mash through a sieve. Add butter, pepper, a dash of sugar, 
ahalf acupof fine crumbs, and a half a cup of grated cheese. 



38o Dairx Products 

add two lightly beaten eggs, and pour the mixture into 
buttered ramekins. Bake till a delicate brown and serve 
hot with a simple salad of romaine and Boston lettuce 
cut in ribbons and a tablespoon of minced tarragon leaves, 
using French dressing made of walnut oil instead of olive oil. 
Garnish with red pepper rings. 

Cheese Strudel 

Roll a good puff paste very thin, spread lightly with 
smooth apple sauce, and sprinkle with grated cheese, a 
dusting of pepper and salt. Roll up, cut into three-inch 
lengths and bake till a delicate brown. Serve either hot or 
cold. Pinch the ends of each little roll before baking. 

Brazilians 

Blanch and chop fine six Brazil nuts, add them with a 
tablespoon of strawberry jam, a teaspoon of chopped celery, 
a dash of paprika, salt, and enough sweet cream to make a 
spreading paste to a package of cream cheese. Add enough 
cream so that the paste is thin enough not to break the 
bread while laying up the sandwiches. Cut rye bread very 
thin and cut the sandwiches into small rounds. These 
are dainty for afternoon tea. 

Cheese Pufflets 

Three ounces of grated cheese, one tablespoon of flour, 
one egg, saltspoon each of salt and pepper, and a cup of 
milk ; bake ten minutes in popover tins. These are good to 
serve with a chop or piece of breaded cutlet. 

Tutti Fttttti Cheese 

This is to serve with a fruit salad. Use one cream cheese, 
soften with a teaspoon of preserved ginger syrup, a teaspoon 
of sherry, and a little sweet cream. Chop fine one maras* 



D^irx Producta 381 

schino fig» six cherries, one marron glac6, a strip of candied 
lemon peel, and three dry macaroons rolled fine. Form 
into a smooth paste, spread thickly on oval crackers, and 
put a cherry on top of each. 



NUTS 

In the so-called " bloodless " or meatless diet that is being 
adopted by many food faddists and others, nuts of all kinds 
are a prominent factor. 

The variety and supply, however, are quite equal to the 
demand and many foreign lands are sending their output 
to our markets. 

The various health food companies pack nut specialties 
to be used in conjunction with their health cereals and 
fruits. 

But the most reliable headquarters for nuts are the big 
wholesale shops who retail if customers will carry home their 
own purchases. The big grocers which handle first-dass 
stock are also reliable places for nuts of the best known 
varieties. 

Almonds we find in three grades, the "Ne Plus Ultra" of 
California being the finest. The almonds from Tarragon 
have the hardest shells, but are good, fuU-meated nuts for 
cooking purposes. The Jordan almonds are preferred for 
table use by many. 

The Brazil nut contains enough oil to be considered nutri- 
tious and warming to the body. Some of us have no doubt 
often wondered just why this nut should have grown in such 
an odd three-cornered shaped shell; one of us has recently 
found out that with five of its fellows it fits like the segments 
of an orange in a big round burr or shell, which accounts 
for its shape. 

The month of March brings the best Brazil nuts to mar- 
ket, the large " washed " nuts, and they are some time drying 
out before they are ready to sell, 

382 



Nut« 383 

California is furnishing the finest walnuts. They are 
large and sweet, with light colored thin shells. The French 
ones used to be leaders but lately have not been quite up 
to the standard. The black walnuts from the southern 
part of Michigan are the finest, but are almost too rich to 
eat freely of even with a meatless diet. 

Hickory nuts from New York State are always fine, and 
are in great demand for cake and candy making. The old- 
fashioned butternuts seem to be going out of style and 
favor, so that fewer and fewer are sent to this market each 
season. Hazelnuts from Naples and filberts from Sicily 
hold their own as old-time favorites for table use. 

It remained, however, for the State of Missouri to "show 
us," the nut lovers of the country, a pecan worth while. 
The nuts are long, full-meated and thin-shelled, and the wise 
ones have to be "shown" them but once to refuse all others 
when buying. Those from Mexico have hard shells and the 
natives have a mysterious way of polishing the shells before 
sending them to market that gives them a peculiar reddish 
color, which is rather attractive. 

From Armenia come the pistachio nuts, some ah'eady 
salted for table use in the shell and of largest size; others 
come for eating, candy and ice cream making. 

The Chinese lychee nuts have become quite familiar to 
us in their round, pebbly shells, and appear with the dessert 
nuts on many tables. 

Chestnuts from France, England, Spain, and our own 
country keep the market stocked in and out of season, and 
are becoming poptdar for cooking. They are used in many 
ways. 

The pine nuts are most popular with food faddists. How- 
ever they naight not retain their popularity if each person 
had to shell his own nuts. The process of heating the cones 
until each upturned shell-like leaf opens to release the tiny 
nut is a long and tiresome job. 

The newcomers in nut aristocracy are the Luzon and pili 
nuts from the Philippines. They are a sort of first cousin 



384 Nuts 

to the Brazil nut family, looking a bit like them in shape but 
having a smooth shell, easier to crack. 

South America is sending its princess nuts to the States 
now. They are not as large as the Brazils and have a wavy 
sort of shell like the walnut. 

To Salt Nuts 

A general rule for salting nuts is here given which will 
be found satisfactory for home use in salting nuts that are 
usually treated in that way. 

Select the best quality of nuts to be salted, shell them 
carefully, leaving the nuts whole, then plunge them into 
boiling water, allowing them to stand there for five minutes. 
Drain, blanch, and dry them on a soft doth. Put a half 
teaspoon of sweet butter into a shallow pan with the nuts, 
dust them very lightly with salt, set the pan in a meditmi 
oven, watch very carefully, and stir so that the nuts 
color evenly. When they are a delicate brown turn them 
out onto coarse brown paper, rolling them around until they 
are free from every particle of loose salt and grease, trans- 
ferring them to clean paper often. When cold they may be 
put away in a dry, clean glass covered jar, or in wax paper 
Uned boxes. 

Many people do them without putting in any butter, 
just drying them in the oven with the salt; but this is a mat- 
ter of fancy. The nuts generally salted are the Jordan 
almond, the Brazil nut, filberts, pecans, peanuts, English 
walnuts, pine nuts, and pistachio nuts. The princess nut 
and Brazil nut, owing to their fatty composition, do not 
blanch well. 

Brazil Nut Butter 

After shelling and paring as many nuts as one wishes to 
make into butter, put them through the nut grinder, grind- 
ing to a fine meal, pack it in Uttle jars, cover closely, and 



Nuta 385 

keep in a cool place until needed. In preparing for table 
allow half a cup of the meal to one of butter. 

Chestnuts as a V^etable 

Peel and blanch a pound of chestnuts without breaking, 
then throw them into boiling water and boil eighteen to 
twenty minutes, until they are tender; drain, season lightly 
with a little salt, hold over the fire a moment until they are 
dry and mealy, add to an English brown sauce, and serve 
garnished with toast sippets. 

Water Chestnuts 

Water chestnuts are greatly favored by Japanese and 
Chinese cooks. They are used cooked or thinly sliced in 
salads; they cook in the same length of time that the 
ordinary chestnut does, and make a pleasant addition to 
sauces. They are improved by the accompaniment of the 
bamboo sprouts, either cooked or raw in salad. 

Pine Paste 

Grind a half cup of pine nuts and add them to a package 
of cream cheese, add half a red pepper and three olives 
chopped fine, juice of one onion, a saltspoon of salt, a half 
saltspoon of pepper, and a level teaspoon of sugar, adding 
enough sweet cream to make a spreading paste. Lray up in 
sandwiches made of rye bread cut very thin and lightly 
spread with honey instead of butter. Cut the sandwiches 
in rounds and if they are to stand a while put in a cool 
place and cover with a linen cloth wrung out of cold water, 
which will keep them moist and the edges from curling. 

Nut Roast 

Boil one can of peas twenty minutes, then strain through 
a sieve, add one cup of finely chopped or ground English wal- 
nuts, a cup and a half of fine bread crumbs, two beaten eggs, 
as 



386 Nuta 

a heaping tablespoon of butter, a saltspoon of pepper, and 
a half teaspoon of salt ; mold firmly in brick shape and place 
in well-buttered shallow roasting pan. Brush over with 
white of egg, baste twice with a quarter cup of white wine in 
which a lump of butter has been melted, and a dash of sugar 
and a grating of nutmeg added. Roast a half to three 
quarters of an hour, according to the oven heat, but do not 
bum or dry it too much. Serve a brown mushroom sauce 
with the roast, which shotdd be sufl&dent for five persons. 

Nut Cutlets 

One fourth potmd of lentils, two ounces of almonds, one 
fourth ounce of butter, one fourth oimce of floiur, one egg. 

Cook lentils and rub through a sieve. Blanch and grind 
the almonds. Make a batter with the butter and flour, add 
the lentils, almonds, and any desired seasoning. Mix well 
and turn onto plate. Make in a flat shape. Divide into 
six equal portions, making into cutlet shapes. Roll in 
beaten egg and bread crumbs. Fry in deep fat. Serve 
with tomato sauce. 

Pine Nut Roast 

Take two cups of green pea pulp (two cans of peas drained 
and pulped), one cup of chopped pine nuts, one cup of bread 
crumbs, one cup of grated pineapple, one small grated onion, 
a half gill of melted butter, one beaten egg, a half teaspoon 
salt, a saltspoon of pepper, and, if the mixture seems a little 
too thick, add a Httle cream. Turn into a buttered baking 
dish and cook until the roast is thick enough to slice. Serve 
with it a pineapple brown sauce, which is thickened with 
browned flour and has a cup of grated pineapple cooked in it. 

Peanut Macaroons 

Beat the whites of three eggs until foamy, add one quarter 
teaspoon of cream tartar, and beat until dry. Then beat 



Nuts 387 

in gradually one half cup of sugar. When all is in and the 
mixture very light, fold in one half cup of sugar, one tea- 
spoon flour, and one pint of peanuts chopped to a powder. 
Drop by teaspoons onto a tin, lined with a buttered paper. 
Sift granulated sugar on top of each, and bake on floor of a 
quick oven from five to seven minutes. 

Walnut Fritters 

Put a small cup of milk and half an ounce of butter in a 
saucepan, over the fire. When it boils, add three ounces of 
dried and browned bread crumbs and a little dredging of 
flour. Let it cook until it no longer adheres to the pan, 
and remove from the fire. When cool, add two eggs beaten 
smooth, a large tablespoon of chopped walnut meats, a 
saltspoon of salt, a half saltspoon of pepper, a small grated 
onion, and a dessertspoon of chutney syrup. Mix well and 
shape into cakes a half inch thick, on a floured board. Roll 
the cakes in egg and bread crumbs and fry. Serve with 
grilled tomatoes and walnut gravy. This gravy is a me- 
dium brown sauce, mixed with walnuts chopped very fine. 

Almond 

Blanch and pound a half pound of sweet almonds and six 
bitter ones to a smooth paste with a spoonful of water ; warm 
a quarter of a pound of butter and mix with the almonds 
and add four eggs, two tablespoons of sugar, two tablespoons 
of cream, and a tablespoon of brandy; leave out the whites 
of two of the eggs, beat them well, and add after the other 
ingredients are all well mixed; half fill buttered cups and 
bake twenty minutes; turn the puddings out onto a dish 
and serve with a sweet sauce. 

Marions in Honey 

Take one pound of fresh marrons in the shell; remove the 
shells carefully and place without breaking into boiling 



388 Nuts 

water for five minutes, when they may be easily blanched; 
then place in a saucepan covered with milk and simmer 
until the chestnuts are tender. Mash through a sieve, add 
a quarter pound of honey, mix well; then put the mass 
through a ricer onto a pretty dish and surround it with 
whipped cream. If one desires the dish a little sweeter it 
may be sweetened before putting through the ricer. 



BREAD 

"Which shall I choose?" This is the question which 
confronts the cook who is experimenting with the various 
fruit, vegetable, and grain flours. One reaUy does not 
know how many there are without stopping to investigate, 
so many have appeared on the market in answer to the 
demand of the food educators. 

Of course all cooks are well acquainted with rye, wheat, 
graham, whole wheat, rice, bran, barley, and com flour, all of 
which have become far better products with the enforced 
pure food laws. But the banana, chestnut, lima bean, 
string bean, lentil, cassava root, yellow pea, green pea, 
potato, and mixed vegetable flours are new enough to most 
of us to need an introduction. Nearly all of the finest 
grades of these so-called fancy flours are of Swiss manufac- 
ture and are a bit too dear for everyday use. However, for 
invalids and children they are highly recommended. The 
expert cook finds them most excellent in sauce making, 
for they not only do the necessary thickening but add a 
delicate flavor aU their own when properly combined. In 
some instances they also do the work of a coloring agent. 

Banana flotir makes delicious cake in layers to be laid up 
with fresh banana filling. Chestnut flour makes very ac- 
ceptable chestnut sauce if one does not want to bother with 
the nuts or if they are not at hand to use. 

Potato flour is excellent to use for potato pancakes 
or the Irish potato shortcake, which is baked in an iron 
frjring pan on top of the stove. It is also good for soup 
thickening. Most of the other flotu^ are adapted for gruels, 
sauces, or invalid soups. 

389 



390 . Bread 

In using the wheat flour, the damp fine flour will be found 
to make the best pastry, while the dry, coarser variety 
makes the best bread. In place of using the compressed 
yeast in dough raising, there is a new product brought out by 
the same makers in the form of a dry yeast cake. It may 
also be had in a coarse yeast powder, which the professional 
cooks who are experimenting with it find does just as good 
work, and is always at hand for dty or country tise, so one 
need not depend upon delivery of the fresh yeast cakes. 

The pans for the lighter flour mixtures should be warmed 
and lightly buttered before turning in the dough. For the 
heavier flours, have the pans quite hot and well buttered 
before turning in the dough. By following these rules at 
least five minutes of heating time will be saved. 

In bread or mufiin baking the heat of the oven is of great 
importance. A good medium oven is alwa3rs the safest, 
for if too hot it bums before it bakes, and if too cool the 
mixture rises out of all proportion, bakes slowly, and is 
apt to fall when removed, or else be dry and tasteless. The 
medium oven may be sharpened a bit at the end of the bak- 
ing time to instu-e a more even browning. If the oven is 
inclined to brown too quickly one should always have at 
hand sheets of asbestos paper to lay over the cooking 
dough. 

Though the flour and yeast are of first importance in 
bread-stuff making, the other ingredients, such as butter, 
sweet milk, and eggs, should be beyond reproach, and the 
sour milk, if used, should be clotted before the soda is added 
to it. 

The increased cost of bread may induce many women to 
turn to home baking, and therefore to welcome a recipe 
which simplifies the process. Ustially from five to seven hours 
are required in baking. The recipe given below will give 
three loaves of bread, fully as large as the baker's ten cent 
loaf, and two pans of bisctiits. One pan of biscuits may be 
used hot immediately, and the other, if desired, after 
being molded into shape, may be set on the ice until next 



Bread 391 

morning, when it should be allowed to rise a half hour and 
baked twenty minutes, for breakfast. 

Flour varies in texture, some requiring more milk or water 
than others, so that one must vary the time and heat required 
proportionately in baking. Milk will always make more 
tender bread than water, but half and half is the usual 
ratio. The compressed yeast must be absolutely fresh, 
that the buds may yield all the rising quality that is expected 
of them. A poor, thin, or stale cake causes imperfect 
fermentation, the result being a heavy, unwholesome loaf. 

The home-made bread is cheaper than baker's bread, be- 
cause it lasts longer, goes a great deal further, does not 
dry up and grow stale and hard overnight, but tastes well 
just as long as there is a crust left. If the milk is sterilized, 
as this recipe calls for, the bread will keep fresh very much 
longer. 

Pour into the bread pan one pint of sweet milk, add to it 
one pint of boiling water, and let stand until lukewarm. Add 
a lump of butter the size of a smaU hen's egg, a teaspoon of 
salt, and the yeast cake, dissolved in one cup of cold water. 
Sift in the flour slowly, beating with a spoon as long as the 
batter can be moved in that way, then knead with both 
hands imtil the dough leaves the pan dean. Transfer to a 
floured board, where it must be kneaded lightly, but quickly, 
until filled with air bubbles. The more it is tossed and 
shaken, the better for it. Dust the pan lightly with flour 
and lay the bread in it; cover with a clean, heavy doth and 
set in a warm comer to rise. 

When risen properly, which will take from five to seven 
hours, according to the heat, the clearness of the weather, and 
the texture of the flour, have ready two well buttered biscuit 
pans, holding six or eight biscuits, and three bread pans. 
Pinch off the biscuit and shape them, putting one pan 
immediately on the ice for breakfast, leaving the others 
to rise and bake for dinner. Shape the loaves of bread and 
place them again in the warm comer, covered, until they 
rise to three quarters the hdght of the pan; then bake in a 



39^ Bread 

moderate, even oven from forty minutes to an hour, cover- 
ing with a sheet of asbestos paper lest they brown too quickly 
on top. Test them with a strong broom splint to be assured 
they are done in the center, and remove from the oven. 
Take them out of the pans, and when the moisture has 
evaporated and they are thoroughly cold, put them into the 
bread box. 

Twice or three times a week will be sufficient to bake for a 
family of fotir or six persons, and it takes but a small por- 
tion of the day in which to perform the task. 

Steamed Graham Bread 

Pour cups of sifted graham flour, sifted four times; one 
cup of molasses, two cups of sour n[iilk, two teaspoons of 
salt, two even teaspoons of soda, and one cup of raisins. 
Dissolve the soda in two or three teaspoons of hot water, and 
pour into the sour milk and molasses. When it stops 
effervescing, stir in the flour and add the raisins, which have 
been dredged in flour. Bake in well greased pans or molds. 
Steam three hours with the cover on; then set in a hot oven 
for twenty minutes, to dry and brown. 

Oatmeal Bread with Honey 

To a cupful of rolled oats add three cups of hot water, 
three quarters of a cup of honey, a heaping tablespoon of 
butter, and a level teaspoon of salt; stir the mixture thor- 
oughly and when cooled to blood heat add a yeast cake that 
has been dissolved in a half cup of water. Stir in enough 
flour to make a kneading dough; knead, then set to raise six 
hours, then mold into two loaves, raise again, and when 
the pans are three quarters full bake forty to fifty minutes. 
Brush over the tops of the loaves with one tep spoon of 
honey blended with two of milk. 

Steamed Brown Bread 

Two cups of sour milk in one of which a heaping tea- 
spoon of soda is to be dissolved, when it foams add one cup 



Bread 393 

of sweet milk, one cup of rye meal, one cup of com meal, one 
cup of molasses, a level saltspoon of salt; mix well, put into 
a steamer and steam four hours, then bake slowly for one 
hour. 

Rye Bread 

For rye bread use one pint of noilk, scalded, one pint of 
water, a level teaspoon of salt, one yeast cake dissolved in a 
half a cup of cold water; mix and add, slowly sifting in, one 
quart of rye flour. Beat hard for five minutes, then add 
enough flour to make the dough of kneading consistency. 
Knead until the dough is free from all stickiness, then 
return it to the floured pan and allow it to rise for three 
hours. Turn it back onto the board, shape the loaves, and 
place them in buttered baking pans, baking them from thirty 
to forty minutes, testing with a straw. 

Polled Bread 

Take a loaf of two-day-old bread, preferably French 
bread, and trim off the crusts, then tear the bread apart 
with two forks into pieces a Uttle larger than an egg; place 
these on a tin in a cool oven and when they are thoroughly 
dry increase the heat and allow them to become a delicate, 
even brown color. 

Bread Sticks 

When making bread and shaping it to put in the pans 
take off a small Itunp, roll it out, and cut strips seven inches 
long from it. Roll these about the size of a lead pencil, lay 
them on a buttered baking pan, and allow them to rise 
until they double in size. Then bake in a quick oven for 
fifteen to eighteen minutes. 

QUICK HOT BREAD 

Regardless of the menace of indigestion the average 
person is very fond of hot bread, and those who have 



394 Dread 

sojourned in the South return home to tell of breakfasts at 
wliich seven kinds of hot bread were served and vow that 
they will insist on having the same dainties here in the 
North. But somehow Northern people seem to cling to the 
morning toast or one or two varieties of muffins as their 
only indulgence in this line. 

Perhaps it is because it seems too much trouble to provide 
the hot breads or the baker is too handy. However, if one 
gets the habit it really takes but thirty minutes to turn out 
the perfect product — ^ten for the making and twenty for the 
baking — not a serious outlay of time considering the homy 
touch and taste it engenders in the family circle. 

Of course the best quick biscuits are made from the raised 
dough. Other possibilities besides the biscuits are the 
rusk, the fried bread, and the old-fashioned raisin rolls. 
These take a little more time than the hot rolls and other 
breads made with baking powder, but are well worth the 
trouble at least once a week. 

Hot Raised Biscuit 

When the bread dough is ready to put in the pans pinch 
enough biscuits off the dough and roU them in small balls. 
Lay them in rows in buttered pans, pricking the top of each 
with a fork, and let them rise to double their size. Put a 
little lump of butter between every two. Bake them twenty 
minutes. 

Fried Bread 

When the bread dough is ready for the pans cut off a 
good sized piece, roll it out on a floured board, and cut strips 
half an inch thick and foiu* inches long. Roll them round 
between the hands and lay them on a flotired board, allow- 
ing three to each member of the family and a few over. Let 
them rise until they puff up, then have ready a kettle of 
hot lard and fry them to a delicate brown. Heap them on 
a platter in a napkin and serve with maple syrup or hot 
honey. 



Dread 395 

Rusk 

Take one pint of milk, one egg, three quarters of a cup of 
sugar, one half cup of butter, one half teaspoon of salt, and 
three quarters of a compressed yeast cake dissolved in 
half a cup of cold water. Add flour enough to make a stiff 
batter that can be stirred with a spoon. Let it rise till 
light, then mold into smaU cakes. Lay the cakes in a well 
buttered pan and let them rise again and bake to a delicate 
brown. Brush over the top with a buttered cloth and 
sprinkle with powdered sugar. A cup of seeded raisins or 
durants may be added if desired. 

; Sally Ltuin 

Take one pint of flour, two teaspoons of baking powder, 
and half a teaspoon of salt. Beat two eggs, whites and 
yolks separately; add half a cup of sweet milk to the yolks, 
stir slowly into the flour, adding one half cup of melted 
butter, beat thoroughly, then add last the beaten whites of 
the eggs. Bake in well buttered warm mufiin pans, filling 
them two thirds full; bake about twenty minutes. 

Egg Puffs 

Mix one pound of sifted flour with one tablespoon of 
baking powder, one teaspoon of salt, and two tablespoons 
of sugar. Beat three eggs, add them to two tablespoons of 
melted butter, mix all together, and add enough warm 
milk to make a moderately thin batter. Fill well greased 
hot muffin tins half full and bake quickly. 

Popovers 

Take one egg^ beating white and yolk separately; one cup 
of sweet milk, one cup of flour, and a pinch of salt. Beat all 
together, adding the white of the egg last. Bake twenty 
minutes in buttered muffin tins. 



39^ Bread 

Sweet Potato Buns 

Boil and mash one large sweet potato, roll into it as much 
flour as will make it like bread, add spice and sugar to taste, 
with a spoonftd of yeast, a quarter yeast cake dissolved in 
cold water. When it has risen, work in a good sized piece 
of butter and bake it in small rolls, to be eaten hot. 

Banana Pbpovers 

Take one cup and a half of banana flour, one egg, the 
white and yolk beaten separately, a saltspoon of salt, three 
quarters of a cup of sweet milk or half a cup of whipped 
cream; mix all together, beat lightly, and pour into warm 
thinly buttered pans. Bake in a medium oven about 
twenty minutes, but the time must be judged by the way 
the popovers brown. 

Quick Biscuits 

Sift two cups of flour, two teaspoons of salt, and two tea- 
spoons of baking powder into the mixing bowl; then put in 
alternately four tablespoons of olive oil and three quarters 
of a cup of milk; stir the mixture lightly with a spoon, turn 
on floured board, roll out, and cut desired size. Bake in 
shallow pans in a quick oven. 

Com P6ne 

Take a heaping coffee cupful of boiled hominy, beat it and 
thin it with a tablespoon of butter, three eggs, and a pint of 
sweet milk. Add as much commeal as will serve to thicken 
the mixttire tmtiL it is like the batter for johnnycake. 
Bake in a quick oven and serve hot. 

Egg Rolls 

Beat two eggs into one cup of milk, add one tablespoon of 
melted butter, one cup of flour, one teaspoon of baking 



Bread 397 

powder; mix well, then add enough flour to make the dough 
stiff eiiough to roll. Cut into small rounds and bake in a 
hot oven. 

Dainty Biscuits 

Work four otmces of butter into a quart of flour. Add 
enough milk to make it into paste and knead it well. Roll 
very thin and cut small. Bake a very delicate brown. 

Rice Gems 

Take a half cup of butter and melt it over the teakettle. 
Mix two cups of sugar with four eggs, beat thoroughly, 
and then add the melted butter. Sift together one and a 
half cups of rice flour and one and a half cups of wheat 
flour and one teaspoon of baking powder; mix thor- 
oughly, then add a half cup of cream, beat the batter 
light and pour it into well, greased pans, baking in 
a hot oven ten to fifteen minutes. Sometimes a few drops 
of lemon juice is added to the gem batter, but this is a matter 
of taste. 

Scotch Scones 

Put one quart of flour in a mixing bowl with one teaspoon 
of sugar, a half teaspoon of salt, and two teaspoons of bak- 
ing powder. Rub in one large tablespoon of lard, two beaten 
eggs, and three quarters of a pint of milk. Mix the dough 
smooth and turn it onto the molding board. Roll it out an 
eighth of an inch thick, cut into squares the size of a soda 
cracker, and fold over the diagonal comers to make them 
three-cornered. B ake on a hot griddle eight or ten minutes, 
cooking them a delicate brown on both sides. 

Ham MuflSns 

These muffins are a Mexican dainty and are unusual 
enough to be interesting. They are quite easily made. 



398 Bread 

Beat one quarter of a cup of butter to a cream ; add gradually 
three quarters of a cup of cold boiled ham chopped very 
fine, a well beaten egg^ one cupful of graham flour, and one 
cupful of white flour sifted with two heaping teaspoons 
of baking powder, and a cup of sweet milk. Have the 
muffin tins hot and well buttered, and bake the muffins 
for twenty-five minutes. This recipe was one of twenty- 
three prize winning recipes selected from eighty-five hun- 
dred submitted in a recent contest under the auspices 
of the General Chemical Company for Ryzon Baking 
Powder. 

ComMuflins 

Take one cup of yellow commeal, one half cup of flour, a 
tablespoon of sugar, one and a half teaspoons of baking 
powder, one beaten eggt one and a half cups of sweet milk, 
and a generous pinch of salt. Bake in hot greased gem pans 
from twenty to thirty minutes. 

Gluten Muffins 

Take two cups of gluten flour, two cups of milk, two tea- 
spoons of baking powder, one well beaten egg. Mix the dry 
ingredients, stir in the beaten eggs and milk, beat thoroughly 
together, and half fill well buttered gem pans. Bake twenty 
minutes. 

Chestnut Muffins 

Beat three eggs, their whites and yolks separately, add 
three quarters of a pint of sweet milk and a tablespoon of 
melted butter, sift in one cup of chestnut flour with two 
teaspoons of baking powder. Beat the batter smooth, then 
add enough chestnut flour to bring the batter to a proper 
consistency, add also a pinch of salt, and half fill warm 
buttled mufiin pans. Bake about twenty minutes. 



Bread 399 

Fruit Mufibis 

Take one pint of flour, a quarter teaspoon of salt, two 
tablespoons of melted butter, a quarter cup of sugar, two 
small teaspoons of baking powder, one egg, and one cup of 
milk. Mix thoroughly as for plain mufi&ns and add last of 
all one cup of fresh berries, seeded raisins, or finely chopped 
preserved fruit, dusted with a little flour. Bake in well 
greased muffin pans in a hot oven twenty minutes. See 
that the fruit is properly drained before being added. 
Blueberries will be fotmd especially good in these muffins. 

Paikex House RoUs 

This is a raised roll made from a famous old Boston 
recipe. Put two quarts of flour in the mixing bowl and 
put in the center of the flour two tablespoons of butter. 
Scald one quart of milk, turn it into the center of the 
flour, add a quarter cup of sugar, a level teaspoon of 
salt, and a yeast cake dissolved in three quarters of a cup of 
cold water. Dust a little flour over the top of the surface 
and set aside for three hotirs, then mix the dough together 
thoroughly and knead it until it is soft and elastic; do not 
add more flour unless absolutely necessary. Let it rise 
again, then roll out about a half inch thick and cut in rounds 
with a good sized cutter, brush over with butter, and fold 
over envelope fashion. Then place the biscuits in a well 
buttered baking pan, far enough apart so they do not touch 
one another, let them rise for an hour and a half, then bake 
in a quick oven for twenty minutes. 

Hot Cross Buns 

Ifix two pounds of flour, half a pound of well washed 
currants, a teaspoon of mixed spices, a yeast cake dissolved 
in three quarters of a cup of cold water, and a half pint of 
warm milk. Mix the batter thoroughly, add a teaspoon of 
salt, and set it to rise. When it fermentsadd a quarter of a 



400 Bread 

pound of melted butter and enough milk to make a soft 
paste. Dust with flour and let rise again, for half an hour. 
Shape the dough into buns and lay them apart on buttered 
tin plates in rows to rise for a half hour. Press the 
tops with a cross mold and bake in a quick oven. Pow- 
dered sugar may be sprinkled over the tops when the buns 
are done. This recipe makes two dozen buns. 

Com Bread 

Mix one tablespoon of butter with two tablespoons of 
sugar and beat to a cream, add the yolks of two eggs and the 
beaten whites, stirring weU, sift in one cup of commeal, one 
cup of wheat floiu*, and two level teaspoons of baking powder. 
Mix all together and add slowly one cup of milk. Pour the 
mixtiu*e into a buttered and lightly floured baking pan, and 
bake in a medium oven for fifteen minutes. 

Nut Bread 

Sift together three cups of pastry flour, three level tea- 
spoons of baking powder, a teaspoon of salt, and three 
quarters of a cup of sugar, add one cup of chopi)ed nut- 
meats, one egg beaten light, and one cup of milk. Mix 
and beat the dough until it is smooth, turn into a square 
buttered bread pan, and bake forty-five minutes. 

Unleavened Bread 

Take three cups of white flour, a half cup of thick sweet 
cream, a saltspoon of salt, and a half cup of cold water. 
Sift the flour in the mixing dish, adding the salt and cream, 
then rub together thoroughly. Then moisten with enough 
cold water to make the mixture of the consistency of thick 
pie crust. Knead and roll with the hands steadily for 
fifteen minutes on a floured board. Then roll the dough 
to about a quarter of an inch in thickness, cut it into fotir- 
inch squares, mark the squares in half across the top, so 



Bread 401 

that when baked they may be easily broken, and prick each 
square with a fork to keep them from blistering. Lay 
on floured baking tins and bake in a quick oven^ being 
careful not to bum or scorch. 

Scotch Oat Cakes 

Put a half potmd of fine Scotch oatmeal into a mixing 
bowl. In a cup put a pinch of baking soda and a piece 
of butter the size of a hazelnut ; add a half cup of hot water 
and stir until the butter is all melted. Then mix with the 
meal in the bowl, using a thin bladed knife; when the mix- 
ture is blended, turn out onto a molding board and knead 
it with the knuckles, keeping it round and not letting it 
crack at the edges. Strew plenty of dry meal over it and 
roU with a crimped roller, brushing off all the loose meal 
which does not adhere to the dough. Roll about as thick as 
anoldcoppercent;thencutthe cake in three pieces and place 
themona griddle to toast. As they get done, move them to 
a hotter place. Try them with the thtunbnail to see when 
they are done, and, if they have ceased to be doughy, 
remove them to a toaster to dry but do not let them 
bum. 

Scotch Short Bread 

Beat one pound of butter to a cream, gradually sift into it 
two pounds of flour, then add a quarter of a pound of sugar, 
half an ounce of caraway seeds, one ounce of blanched sweet 
almonds cut in pieces or chopped, and a pinch of salt; work 
the paste until it is quite smooth and divide it into six equal 
pieces, put each cake on a separate piece of thick writing 
paper, roll the paste out square to the thickness of about 
an inch, and ornament all sides with the tines of a silver 
fork. Prick the top of the cakes well with the fork and orna- 
ment them with strips of candied orange peel. Put the cakes 
into a good oven and bake them twenty *five minutes. 

a6 



402 Bread 

Scotch Cakes 

Cream together one potind of butter and three quarters 
of a pound of brown sugar, a tablespoon of caraway seeds, 
a teaspoon of cinnamon, and a pound and a half of flour. 
Mix well, roll, cut in squares, and bake from fifteen to 
twenty minutes. 

Yorkshire Pudding 

Take a half pound of flour, one half teaspoon of salt, one 
teaspoon of baking powder, mix smooth with a half pint of 
milk, then add two tablespoons of melted butter and the 
other half pint of milk. Bake in a quick oven and serve 
under the roast English fashion. 

Maryland Beaten Biscuits 

Rub together one quart of flour, one teaspoon of salt, 
one tablespoon of butter, add one cup of cold water to 
make a stiff dough, then put on the board or a block and 
beat with a mallet for a half hour, when it will be brittle. 
Roll on the board and cut into half-inch thick rounds, prick 
with a fork like a cracker, and bake twenty minutes. 

English Muffins 

Heat in a double boiler one pint of milk and when hot 
add two tablespoons of butter and remove from the fire. 
When cool stir in a yeast cake that has been dissolved in a 
half cup of cold water, a level teaspoon of salt, and gradu- 
ally sift in one pint of flour. Beat all together, then cover 
and stand away in a warm place for two hours or a little 
longer if not quite Kght. Lay greased muffin rings on a 
griddle, grease it lightly, and half fill rings with the muffin 
batter. Cook slowly, turning them with a pancake turner, 
and when they are cooked stifficiently to slip from the rings 
cook a few minutes on either side but do not bum them. 
They may be eaten hot or when cold pulled apart and 
toasted. 



Bread 403 

WAFFLES 

Plain Waffle Batter 

Sift together one cup of flotir, a saltspoon of salt, and a 
half teaspoon of baking powder ; add a teaspoon of sugar and 
two eggs beaten white and yolks separately, and stir in one 
cup of sweet milk. When all is beaten light and smooth 
the batter is ready to use. 

Rice Waffles 

Mix three cups of sifted flour with a saltspoon of salt, two 
cups of boiled rice, and a teaspoonful of baking powder. 
Mix three eggs with a cup of milk and make the batter very 
smooth. Have the wafiSe irons hot and well greased and 
cook immediately. 

French Waffles 

Sift one quart of flour into the mixing bowl, add a tea- 
spoon of salt and four tablespoons of olive oil; mix thor- 
oughly, then add the yolks of three eggs beaten into one 
and a half pints of milk. Beat for five minutes. Set the 
batter aside and let it stand for thirty minutes, then add four 
level teaspoons of baking powder; beat it again and fold in 
the well beaten whites of the eggs, and the waffle batter is 
ready for use. Brush the waffle iron over with the oU. 

Sweet Pdtato Waffles 

Boil enough sweet potatoes so that when mashed they 
yield two cups; add two eggs, a half cup of sugar, a cup of 
melted butter, a pint of rich milk, and flour enough to make 
a thin batter. If the potatoes seem soggy, it is wise to add 
a half teaspoon of baldng powder, but if they are light and 
dry this is not necessary. Bake the waffles small and serve 
three to a portion, dusted with a little powdered sugar and 
lemon juice. 



404 Bread 

Banana WafSies 

Make a batter with two cups of banana flour, a level 
teaspoon of baking powder, a half teaspoon of salt, two 
beaten eggs, a teaspoon of sugar, and one cup of nulk. 
Beat until very smooth and cook. When done dust the 
waffles with powdered sugar and sprinkle with a few drops 
of lemon juice. 

PANCAKES 

If alumintun griddles or grills are used, they require 
no greasing, but a small amount of butter is added to the 
cake batter instead, which prevents it sticking. Thus 
the smoke which has always been objectionable from the 
greasy griddle is avoided. 

The raised griddle cake made with yeast has almost 
entirely lost favor, since modem baking powder or whipped 
eggs seem to have raising powers superior to the yeast and 
are infinitely more time-saving. Fresh eggs, sweet milk, 
good butter, and the right sorts of flours must be at hand 
for the most successftd pancake making. The most satis- 
factory way of using the batter after it is made is to turn it 
into a pitcher that has a long, slender spout and pour the 
cakes of equal size. 

Wheat Cakes 

One quart of flour, three teaspoons of baking powder, 
and half a teaspoon of salt; sift well together and add sweet 
milk enough to make a soft batter. Bake the cakes at once 
on a hot griddle, being sure that they are thin. 

Glen House Flannel Cakes 

Put two ounces of butter into a pint of hot milk and let it 
melt, then add a pint of rich cold milk, four well beaten 
eggs, a teaspoon of salt, a half yeast cake dissolved in half a 
cup of cold water, and sufficient flour to make a stiff batter* 



Bread 405 

Set it in a warm place three hours to rise; then fry the cakes 
on a hot greased griddle and serve with hot maple syrup, 
fresh butter, and whipped cream. 

Buckwheat Cakes 

The buckwheat cakes are made in the same way as the 
wheat cakes only using buckwheat flour. To be good 
they must be light and thin. The sausage that may be 
served with them should be slipped from the cases or the 
loose sausage meat used. Place it in a bowl and season 
with a little finely powdered sweet herbs, a saltspoon of 
pepper, a half teaspoon of salt, a tablespoon of Worcester- 
shire sauce, two tablespoons of sweet cream, and the stiiBQy 
beaten white of one egg. Beat it thoroughly and form into 
flat, thin cakes that will fry quickly. Serve sandwich 
fashion between two cakes, and each sandwich is a portion. 
Serve with them a tureen of hot honey, or, if preferred, a 
thin chestnut sauce. A pound of sausage meat will make 
ten cakes. 

The old-fashioned buckwheat cakes, made with yeast and 
raised overnight, were very apt to become sour, and dis- 
agreeable effects often followed their eating. This is 
entirely obviated by the use of the baking powder, which 
makes the cakes much more wholesome. 

Many recipes lighten the flour by the addition of a 
small amount of fine Indian meal, others add a small 
quantity of banana flour, but this is a matter of taste 

Venetian Bread Cakes 

Remove the crtmib of a flve-cent loaf, soak in warm water 
two minutes, then wring dry in a towel; beat two eggs with 
the bread, two teaspoons of brown sugar, teaspoon of salt, 
one and a half teaspoons of baking powder; sift one pint of 
flour, and, stirring the mixture, carefully add three quarters 
of a pint of milk. When the batter is thoroughly smooth, 
if it seems too thick add a little bit more n:iilk and a tea- 



4o6 Dread 

spoon of melted butter. Cook the cakes on a well heated 
griddle; serve with them whipped cream, to which a little 
powdered sugar, a few drops of vanilla, and two teaspoons 
of finely grotmd walnut meats have been added. 

German Pancake 

One cup of flour, teaspoon of sugar, teaspoon of salt, 
yolks of three eggs beaten with a pint of milk; mix the 
batter and beat it smooth; just before cooking the cakes 
blend in the stiffly beaten whites of the eggs. Make the 
cake the size of the griddle; do not turn it. Sprinkle with 
powdered sugar and serve a little tureen of lemon juice 
with it. 

French Pancake 

Sift one cup of flour, a teaspoon of salt and teaspoon of 
baking powder together, add to it two well beaten eggs, 
beaten with a teaspoon of sugar and a pint of milk ; mix into 
a thin batter, adding a teaspoon of melted butter. Make 
the cake rather larger than ordinary, spread it with jelly, 
and roU it; sprinkle with powdered sugar and serve in 
a napkin. 

Rice Pancakes 

The rice pancakes are made in the same way as are the 
wheat cakes except that rice flour is substituted for wheat 
flour. The quantities will remain about the same in both 
cases, but the cook must use her own discretion in the mix- 
ing of the batter. 

Potato Pancakes 

Grate four medium sized raw potatoes into a bowl, add 
half a cup of milk, half a teaspoon of salt, and two eggs. 
Beat all well together until the batter is light. Sift in two 
cups of flour, half a teaspoon of baking powder, and if the 



Bread 407 

batter is too heavy add a little more milk until it is the 
right consistency. Pry the cakes in the usual way and make 
them as thin as possible. Serve three to a portion after 
turning over them a little melted butter. 

Lentil Pancakes 

Take three heaping cups of lentil flour and half a cup of 
white flour and mix them together. Add a heaping tea- 
spoon of baking powder, a half teaspoon of salt, and a 
teaspoon of sugar. Mix and add a cup of milk, then fold in 
the stiffly beaten whites of two eggs. Beat the batter until 
light and add a little more milk if necessary. Fry and 
serve the cakes with a smooth rich tomato sauce. 

Lima Pancakes 

The lima pancakes are made the same as the lentil pan- 
cakes, only using lima bean flour in place of the lentil flour. 
These vegetable flours are new, and their handling is rather 
difficult until one gets the knack. They are Ught when dry, 
much lighter than the ordinary flour, and heavier when wet. 
For that reason the white of egg is used without the yolk for 
the purpose of lightening the batter. The cheese sauce that 
is served with the lima pancakes has for its foundation a 
rich, light cream sauce, not thick and pasty, but creamy and 
well seasoned. Just before serving add, to every three cups 
of the sauce, three quarters of a cup of grated English 
cheese. 

Russian Pancakes 

Make a large thin wheat pancake, cook in the usual way, 
and when done spread with the following paste: One tea- 
spoon anchovy paste mixed smooth with two teaspoons of 
sweet butter. Spread the cake with this and sprinkle over 
it a tablespoon of caviar and a finely minced shalot, a few 
drops of lemon juice and a saltspoon of pepper. Roll the 
cake and serve hot. 



4o8 Bread 

Mocha Pancakes 

The plain wheat cake batter is tised for these cakes» 
which are laid up jellycake fashion with a mocha filling. 
Three are served to each portion, the top being dusted 
with a little powdered sugar and finely chopped nut meats. 
Make the mocha filling the same as for the layer cakes, 
only thinner, so it will spread easily. 

Austrian Pancakes 

The Austrian cakes are made of the wheat flour, thin and 
as large as a tea plate. When they are cooked have ready a 
fine hard sauce made of butter and sugar flavored with 
vanilla, having blanched almonds chopped through it, 
and spread each cake quickly and roU it. Serve two to a 
portion and pass peach marmalade with the cakes. 

Panama Pancakes 

These cakes are made of banana flour. The quantities 
are the same as for the wheat cakes. Fry the cakes a Uttle 
larger than usual and as thin as possible. For the sauce 
chop six bananas and fold them into two cups of whipped 
cream, then add a cup of honey, beating all smoothly 
together. 



DESSERTS 

Custards 

Custards in which gelatine is used are perhaps the most 
decorative in appearance when they are suitably molded, 
but these require a little more knack in the mixing than do 
the baked or boiled egg custards. Needless to say, only the 
freshest ingredients are permissible in this class of cookery; 
the purest of flavorings, rich sweet milk, pure cream, 
guaranteed eggs, and a fine-grained granulated sugar, with 
sweet butter, where used, and the best grade of powdered 
gelatine, are necessary for the desired results. In baking 
custards an even steady oven, not too hot, is best and 
they should be tested with a silver knife. After two or 
three bakings the most inexperienced cook will know how to 
judge them. If the custards are boiled use the double boiler, 
the upper recepticle preferably porcelain lined or of granite- 
ware, and be sure that the water in the under vessel is boil- 
ing when the custard is set over it and kept at boiling point 
until the cooking is done. Never allow it to get low enough 
not to surround the upper vessel; this insures a steady, even 
heat, which is often neglected and the resulting failure is 
an unexplained mystery to the cook. 

Boiled Custard 

Scald one quart of rich milk; into half of this put the 
yolks of five eggs beaten with three tablespoons of sugar 
and a pinch of salt, mix thoroughly and turn back into the 
rest of the milk. Cook until the milk thickens, which may 

generally be judged by the disappearance of foam from the 

409 



410 Deaaerta 

top. Cover, and when slightly cool add flavoring to taste 
and the stifiSy beaten whites of the eggs, mixing thoroughly 
together. This plain custard often forms the basis of many 
other desserts. 

Baked Custard 

Beat fotir tablespoons of sugar with four fresh eggs, turn 
over them one quart of warm milk, stir thoroughly, and add 
the flavoring. Pill custard cups with the mixttire and stand 
them in a baking pan three quarters full of warm water. 
Bake in a moderate oven until they are firm in the center. 
Remove from the fire and when cool, chill. 

Rice and Cheese Custard 

Take one cup of boiled rice, add to it two beaten eggs, a 
cup and a half of milk, a tablespoon of melted butter, a tea- 
spoon of sugar, salt and pepper, mix thoroughly, and grate 
thickly over the top English cheese. Bake and serve hot 
with the vegetable cotirse. 

Old-Fashioned Floating Island 

Heat one quart of milk to scalding but not boiling point; 
beat the yolks of four eggs with four tablespoons of sugar, 
two teaspoons of extract of vanilla, and pour gradually over 
them one cup of the hot milk; then turn all into a saucepan 
and boil until it begins to thicken. When cool turn over 
thinly sliced sponge cake spread with jam and arrange in a 
deep compote. Beat the egg whites very, very stiff, whip- 
ping with them a little soft currant jelly. Drop the whip 
by tablespoons on top of the custard and place a little block 
of currant jelly on the top of each island. Serve very cold. 

Modem Floating Island 

Make a good boiled custard and when it is cold turn it 
into a compote. Beat the whites of four eggs very stiff. 



Deaaerts 41 1 

adding a little powdered sugar and a dash of vanilla flavor- 
ing. Very lightly grease a baking dish and drop the mix- 
ture into it by spoonfuls; lightly brown them one minute 
or two in the oven, then dot the top of the custard with 
them, heaping them in the center. Chill and serve. 

Tapioca Custard 

Put two tablespoons of fine tapioca, after washing, in a 
double boiler with one pint of milk; cook and stir until the 
tapioca is transparent, then add the yolks of two eggs 
beaten with three tablespoons of sugar and a pinch of salt, 
and stir until thickened. Remove from the fire and when 
slightly cooled add the whites beaten stiffly; mix thoroughly, 
add the flavoring, and set away to chill. 

^Uabub 

This old fashioned dessert is made by whipping one quart 
of cream with one cup of powdered sugar, beating stiffly 
the whites of four eggs with a small cup of powdered sugar, 
then mixing together and adding a glass of white wine. 
Pour over sliced sugared fresh fruit in season. 

Peach Cobbler 

Peach cobbler is a good Southern dessert which at the 
height of the peach season is at its best. Line a deep, 
square baking pan with good, flaky pie crust, forming an 
ornamental edge, and butter the baking dish well, to make 
sure the crust will not stick. Take fine, ripe peaches and 
quarter them and lay thickly and closely in the crust, 
sprinkling with plenty of sugar. If the baking dish is deep 
enough, two layers may be used, and then a little thin sugar 
syrup may be added, to moisten it until the juice cooks out 
a bit. 

When the peaches are soft the cobbler is done, and it may 
be served hot with a good brandy sauce, or cold with plain 
whipped cream. 



4^2 Deaserts 

Lemon Sponge 

Dissolve two ounces of gelatine in one and three fourths 
pints of water, strain it into a saucepan, and add three 
quarters of a pound of sugar, the juice of five lemons and the 
grated rind of one; simmer gently for ten or fifteen minutes, 
strain, and let it stand until cold and it begins to stiffen. 
Beat the whites of three eggs very stiff, turn them into the 
mixture, and beat together until it is quite white, then turn 
into a mold that has been wet with cold water and set 
away to stiffen. When it is thoroughly cold and ready to 
serve turn onto a dish, garnish with cherries, and serve with 
whipped cream. 

Rhubarb Fool 

Stew two pounds of rhubarb, previously trimmed and 
wiped, add six to eight ounces of sugar, and the juice of a 
lemon, or some lemon-rind. When the rhubarb is tender, 
rub it into syrup through a fine sieve. When the pulp 
is cold, add to it one pint of cream (cold) or a pint of cus- 
tard. Serve in a glass dish. 

Rennet Custard 

Sweeten to tasteone quart of rich milk, add to it one table 
spoon of liqtiid rennet, one teaspoon of vanilla, and two 
tablespoons of sugar. Turn into a glass dish and set near 
the stove where it will get warm. As soon as it begins to 
thicken set on the ice. Serve with any of the fresh fruits 
or with preserves. 

HALF A DOZEN ENGLISH TRIFLES 

The trifle is a dessert much favored by English people 
and is not met with in the United States very often, but it 
is well worth trying. It is a cold dessert which is served in 
a deep comport and is very decorative in appearance. 

The plain trifle is made in the following way: Cover the 



413 

bottom of the trifle dish with little sponge cakes and maca* 
roons after thickly spreading them with jam, next ttim 
over them a cupftil of rich fruit syrup, grate over them a 
little lemon peel, and scatter two tablespoons of chopped* 
blanched almonds over them also. Have ready a smooth, 
rich boiled custard made with plenty of eggs, have it chilled, 
turn it over the cakes, and last of all put over the top a whip 
made of one pint of heavy whipped cream, three ounces 
of powdered sugar and the whites of two eggs whipped 
to a stiff froth; this is mixed with the whipped cream, a 
tablespoon of vanilla flavoring and a grating of nutmeg are 
added. Heap this lightly in mound form on top of the cus- 
tard and dot it with candied cherries and strips of angelica. 
It is a good idea to whip and drain the cream several hours 
before it is needed, thereby making sure that it is light 
and fluffy. 

Apple Trifle 

Make a rich smooth apple sauce, using about ten tart 
apples; when the sauce is cold cover the bottom of the trifle 
comport with it. Make a good custard and when it ia 
chilled turn it over the apple sauce. Make the whip 
in the manner described in the foregoing recipe. 

Banana Trifle 

Slice four large bananas thinly, Une the bottom of the 
comport with a layer of little sponge cakes, then cover the 
cake with a layer of the sUced banana. Take the juice of 
three lemons and three oranges, sweeten it quite sweet, and 
turn over the banana and cake. Make a smooth boiled 
custard, usinga little banana flour in the thickening; when it 
is cool add a little rose coloring to tint it a delicate pink, 
and when chilled turn it over the banana. Make the whip 
in the way indicated before and garnish the top with candied 
rose leaves. 



4^4 Desserts 

Gooseberry Trifle 

Stew carefully one qtiart of gooseberries with suflEicient 
sugar to sweeten them and reduce them to a pulp. When 
cold cover the bottomiof the trifle dish with them, then put 
in a layer of the chilled custard, and last of all the cream 
whip, dotting the top with blanched pistachio nuts and 
tiny cubes of mint jelly. 

Grape Trifle 

Take four potmds of Isabella grapes, wash and stem them 
andputthemin a porcelain-lined pot with a cup of water; let 
them slowly melt and cook until they are done, then put 
them through a pur6e sieve or fine colander, add sugar to 
taste; cover the bottom of the trifle dish with sponge 
cake, then turn over the grape piu-de after it has been 
chilled. Next put in a layer of the custard and last of all 
the whip. Garnish this trifle with half pecan nuts and half 
white grapes that have had their seeds removed. 

Grapefruit Trifle 

Remove the pulp from two large firm grapefruit; spread 
some macaroonswithapricot jam and line the bottom of the 
comport with them, cover them with a layer of the grape- 
fruit pulp, and sprinkle all with powdered sugar. Make 
the boiled custard and when it is chilled color it a delicate 
green with the Breton coloring, heap the top with the whip, 
and garnish the top with candied mint leaves and candied 
violets. 

Indian Trifle 

Boil with one quart of milk the rind of half a large lemon 
until the milk is flavored with it, then remove the rind and 
stir in five heaping tablespoons of rice flour which has 
been moistened in cold milk. Add sugar to taste and boil 
gently five or six minutes, stirring constantly. Remove 



Desserts 4^5 

from the fire and when cold potir into a glass dish. When 
thoroughly chiUed hollow out the center in any form desired 
and fill with a chilled, smooth custard. Blanch an ounce 
of sweet almonds, cut them in pieces, dot the top of the 
trifle with them, and lay a few cubes of currant jelly over 
the top. 

PUDDINGS 
Baked Apple Pudding 

Fill a pudding dish nearly full of thinly sliced tart apples, 
add a cup and a half of boiling water, and set on the top of 
the range covered closely until they begin to cook. Then 
add onecupof molasses in which a teaspoon of sugar and one 
of flotir have been beaten, a grating of nutmeg, then cover 
with a soft rich biscuit dough rolled a half inch thick and 
bake in moderate oven. Serve with hard sauce. 

Apricot Pudding 

Make a crust as for apple dumplings, roll out to a quarter 
of an inch thickness, and lay on a floured cloth. Spread 
with two and a half cups of apricots that have been pared and 
cut up and allowed to stand one hotir covered with one cup 
of sugar. Roll the pudding, tie it in the bag and pltmge 
into boiling water, and boil evenly for one and a half hours. 
For the sauce use a cup and a half of sugar to three quarters 
of a cup of butter creamed together and whip into it one egg. 
Set over the teakettle to melt; when thoroughly blended 
add a wineglass of apricot brandy and nutmeg to taste. 

Bachelor's Pudding 

f Pare, core, and mince three large apples ; add to these four 
ounces of currants, foiu: ounces of grated bread, and two 
ounces of sugar, a few drops of lemon, a grating of nutmeg, 
and three well beaten eggs; beat all together, pour into a 
buttered basin, tiedown the cover, plunge into boiling water, 
and let boil three hours; serve with Rocky Motmtain sauce. 



4i6 Desserts 

Blackbeny Roly Poly 

Free from fiber a piece of suet weighing slightly less 
than a half pound, skin and chop same. Add to it a half 
pound of flour and a quarter teaspoon of salt, mix enough 
water to make a tender dough, and roU out on a floured 
board until about an inch thick. Spread with carefiilly 
washed ripe blackberries, sugar them well, roll the dough 
about them, and place the roll in a floured cloth. Plunge 
it into boiling water and boil for two hours. Serve with any 
good pudding sauce. 

Boston Pudding 

One cup of sweet milk, one cup of molasses, one cup of 
finely chopped suet, one cup of raisins, currants, and citron, 
three cups of flour, a dash of the different spices, a pinch of 
salt, and one teaspoon of soda. Mix well and steam for 
three hours. Serve with rich brandy, or Rocky Mountain 
sauce. 

Brown Bread Pudding 

Grate three quarters of a pound of stale brown bread; 
add to it a half pound of carefully chopped suet, half a pound 
of dried currants that have been thoroughly washed, a cup 
of sugar, fotu" eggs, two tablespoons of cream, two of brandy, 
and a grating of nutmeg. Beat the ingredients together and 
turn into a weU buttered mold. Tie it down tightly and 
boil for four hours. Serve with a good brandy sauce. 

Canaiy Pudding 

Take a scant half cup of butter and melt it, but do not let 
it boil; add a full half cup of sugar and the finely minced 
peel of one lemon. Sift in a half cup of flotir and add three 
well beaten eggs. Beat all together. Pour into a buttered 
mold and boil two hours. Serve with a rich brandy sauce. 



De88ert« 417 

Fig Pudding 

Chop two pounds of figs into small pieces, grate a half 
pound of bread crumbs fine and chop one pound of suet; 
mix all together, add a half pound of flour, two eggs, and 
milk enough to make the whole into a stiff paste. Butter a 
mold and press the pudding into it closely; tie it down with 
a cloth and boil it for three hours. Turn out on a platter 
and serve with wine sauce, melted butter, or cream as best 
liked. 



Pudding 

One cup of sweet milk, one cup of molasses, one cup of 
finely chopped suet, one cup of raisins, cturants, and citron» 
three cups of flour, spices, salt, and one teaspoon of bak- 
ing powder. Steam for three hours and serve with a good 
brandy sauce. 

Ginger Pudding 

Mix six ounces of brown bread crumbs with three ounces 
of butter, a saltspoon of ground ginger, the juice of a lemon, 
and four ounces of sugar. Stir these in a stewpan until the 
butter is melted. Chop four ounces of preserved ginger 
and add to the noixture, with the yolks of two eggs. Beat 
well together and set aside to cool. Whip the whites of 
the eggs and stir into the pudding quickly. Pill a buttered 
pudding mold with the mixture, cover with a floured doth, 
leaving room for the pudding to swell, and steam it for three 
hours. Serve with it a hot fruit sauce. 

Golden Pudding 

Put a quarter of a pound of dried bread cnimbs into a 
basin with one quarter pound of very finely chopped suet; 
add a quarter of a pound of peach marmalade and a quarter 
of a pound of sugar, and when it has been well stirred to- 
gether, add four well beaten eggs. Put the pudding into a 



41 8 Desserts 

well buttered mold, tie it down with a floured cloth and boil 
for two hours. Any good pudding sauce that is preferred 
may be used with this pudding. 

John Bull's Own Pudding 

Chop one potmd of suet fine, wash and dry one pound of 
currants, stone one pound of raisins and free the stalks from 
one potmd of large layer table raisins; one pound of sugar, 
one pound of chopped candied peel, one teaspoon of salt 
and one of mixed spice, half a pound of bread crumbs, and a 
half pound of flour, mix together and add eight well beaten 
eggs to which a cup of brandy has been already added, 
pour over the nuxture, and stir for twenty-five minutes until 
all of the ingredients are thoroughly blended. Butter a 
pudding mold and three quarters fill it with the mixture, 
cover very tightly so no water can get in, then boil for 
thirteen hours. When cold the pudding may be removed 
from the mold, wrapped in a brandied cloth, and set away 
until it is needed, then return it to the mold, cover tight, and 
boil one hour and it will be ready to serve; pour over a wine- 
glass of brandy, garnish with holly, and send it to the table 
on fire. Brandy sauce goes with it. 

Militaiy Pudding and Lemon Sauce 

Military pudding may be made in one large pudding or in 
individual puddings. Chop finely one half pound of suet, 
mix with a half pound of bread cnmibs, half a pound of moist 
sugar; the juice of one large lemon and the grated rind. 
Stir the ingredients weU, pour into buttered cups, bake a 
half hour and turn out into dishes, spread a meringue over 
the top, return it to the oven one minute to brown, and serve 
with lemon sauce. 

A good recipe for the lemon sauce is three quarters of a 
cup of sugar, creamed with one half cup of butter, to which 
add one egg beaten lightly, the juice of one lemon, a little 
grated peel and nutmeg. Beat well; then add one half 



Desserts 4^9 

cup of boiling water, set over the teakettle, which mtist be 
kept boiling until the sauce is very hot, thoroughly smooth 
and melted but not boiled. 

Marlborough Pudding 

Beat a quarter pound of butter to a cream with a quarter 
pound of powdered sugar. Add four beaten eggs; then 
line a dish with good pie crust, spread a layer of jam in the 
bottom, then pour over the mixture, and bake the pudding 
for a half hour in medium oven. 

Meringue Pudding 

Beat to a stiff froth the whites of three fresh eggs, with 
one pound of sugar. Add the juice and grated rind of one 
lemon. Put a layer of sponge cake in the bottom of a 
glass dish, then a layer of the meringue, and repeat the 
layers until the meringue is used up. Dot the surface with 
candied cherries and chill well before serving. 

Baked Orange Pudding 

RoU six ounces of stale sponge cake into fine crumbs 
and pour over them one pint of boiling milk. Grate the 
rind of two oranges and squeeze the juice of six over a half 
pound of sugar. Beat six eggs and stir them into the mix- 
ture. Sweeten it to taste and pour into a deep pie dish 
lined with puff paste. Bake for half an hour, sift with 
powdered sugar, and serve. 

Orange Batter Pudding 

Make a batter pudding of four eggs, one pint of milk, 
one and a half ounces of sugar, and three tablespoons of 
flour. Put the batter in a well buttered basin, tie it down, 
and boil one hour; when done put on a platter, turn a jar of 
orange marmalade over the top, and serve with whipped 
cream. 



420 Desserts 

Peach Pudding 

Make a batter of one half cup of sugar, three tablespoons 
of melted butter, one beaten egg, one cup of milk, one pint 
of flour, and one and a half teaspoons of baking powder. 
Add to this a cup of finely cut peaches, bake in a loaf, and 
serve with Rocky Mountain sauce, made with a cup of 
sugar, three quarters of a cup of butter worked to a cream, 
one beaten egg, and a generous grating of nutmeg. Melt 
over a teakettle, and before serving add a wineglass of good 
brandy, stirring thoroughly, so that it is well blended. 

Pilgrim Pudding 

Peel and chop six tart apples, add six ounces of bread 
crumbs and six ounces of sugar, the grated peel of half a 
lemon, half teaspoon of salt, one glass of brandy, and a 
grating of nutmeg. Steam in a well buttered mold for 
three hours and serve with rich wine sauce. 

Popcorn Pudding 

Dissolve one and a half ounces of powdered gelatine in 
two cups of hot water, then add one cup of sugar, two cups 
of milk, one cupful of chopped popcorn, and cook for a few 
minutes. Cool and add the strained juice of three oranges, 
one gill of cream, and the whites of three eggs, beaten stiff. 
Beat all together until cool and then pour into a wet mold. 
Turn out and serve with whipped cream to which have been 
added a dozen dry powdered macaroons, a teaspoon of 
vanilla and a tablespoon of powdered sugar. 

Queen of Puddings 

One half pint of milk, one ounce of butter, one half pint 
of bread crumbs, one lemon, two eggs, two ounces of sugar, 
two or three tablespoons jam. 

Boil the milk with the butter and pour it over the bread 



Desserts 421 

crumbs; let it soak for a few minutes, then add yolks of two 
eggs, the grated rind of a lemon, and the sugar. Pour into a 
buttered pie dish and bake till set. Take it out of the oven, 
spread it with jam, beat whites of eggs to a stiff froth, 
spread over the top, and bake a pale brown. Sprinkle with 
sugar. 

Boiled Raisin Pudding 

Chop a half a pound of beef suet fine with a pound of 
stoned large raisins; add them to a pound of flour and a 
half teaspoon of salt ; mix well and add enough milk to make 
a rather stiff dough. Place the mixture in a well flotired 
pudding bag, plunge into boiling water, and boil four hours. 
Serve with brandy sauce or a Rocky Mountain sauce made 
quite sweet. 

Rhubarb Pudding 

Stew one and one half dozen stalks of rhubarb and a cup 
of brown sugar in a double boiler until tender. Drain and 
mash and mix with one pint of boiled rice, press into cups 
or one large mold, and set away to cool. Serve with 
whipped cream. 

Rice Pudding 

Take a cup and a half of boiled rice, add to it three well 
beaten eggs, a cup of cream, a cup of sugar, a gill of melted 
butter, and a half cup of sweet nodlk. Turn into a well 
buttered baking dish and see that it is three quarters full 
only. Bake until done, and when slightly cool spread with 
a layer of strawberry jam, covering that with a deep me- 
ringue, and return the dish to the oven for a minute or two 
so as to brown the top lightly. This may be served hot as 
it comes from the oven or chilled with cream. It makes 
a most delicious dessert and is much better than the usual 
rice pudding. 



422 Desserts 

Roly-Poly Mince Pudding 

Allow six ounces of beef suet, skinned, shredded, and 
chopped fine to a pound of floTir and a half pint of water; 
add a saltspoon of salt and work to a smooth paste, roll 
out one inch thick, and spread with good mincemeat weU 
seasoned; roll and pinch the ends together, lay in a floured 
. cloth, put into boiling water, and boil two hours. Drain 
and serve with brandy sauce. 

Baked Indian Suet Pudding 

Warm three pints of sweet milk and when hot stir in 
three large handfuls of yellow commeal; stir briskly until it 
thickens, then set aside to cool. When cool add three eggs, 
one quarter pound of finely chopped suet, four tablespoons 
of sugar, one cup of molasses, one pound of raisins, stoned, 
and a pinch of salt. Bake for two and a half to three hours 
and serve hot, though many like the pudding cold as well. 

West Indian Pudding . 

Break'^six small sponge cakes in pieces, place them in the 
bottom of a pudding dish, and pour over them one pint of 
cream which has been sweetened with three quarters of a 
cup of sugar and brought to the boiling point. Cover 
the dish and let it stand until the cream has been soaked 
up by the cake. Beat eight eggs thoroughly and, when 
the cream is soaked up, stir them in. Butter a pudding 
mold and arrange around the sides pieces of thinly sliced 
preserved ginger; pour the pudding carefuUy in the center, 
adding a teaspoon of vanilla flavoring and a grating of 
nutmeg. Tie down with a floured doth and steam or boil 
slowly for an hour and a half. When done, serve with a 
cup of heated ginger syrup turned over. This makes a very 
dainty and delicious pudding, not as heavy or hearty as a 
baked pudding. 



Desserta 4^3 

PUDDING SAUCES 

Rocky Mountain Sauce 

Take one cup of sugar, three quarters of a cup of butter; 
beat theiQ to a cream; add one beaten egg, the grating of a 
qtiarter of a nutmeg, and a half gill of brandy, or a gill of 
sherry wine. Beat thoroughly and set in a bowl over the 
teakettle until all is smoothly melted. Serve with plum 
pudding, or any other heavy fruit pudding. 

Hard Sauce 

To one cup of powdered sugar use a half cup of butter, 
work together very smooth; add a small grating of nut- 
meg, a teaspoon of vanilla flavoring, and set aside to chill. 
Serve with any of the baked or fruit puddings. 

Pftstal Sauce 

Pastal sauce is a smooth yellow custard made thin 
enough to pour, and the top is covered with candied rose 
and mint leaves, violets and pinks, while chopped through 
the sauce are raisins, angelica, citron, and orange peel. It 
is very decorative over a dark fruit pudding or over an 
angel charlotte. 

Duchess Sauce 

Boil two tablespoons of grated chocolate in a half pint of 
milk for five minutes; strain on two well beaten egg yolks 
that have been beaten with a half gill of cream and half a 
cup of sugar. Strain, return to the fire, and stir until it 
reaches the thickness of cold honey. Add a teaspoon of 
vanilla flavoring and it is ready to serve. 

Foamy Sauce 

Whip the white of one egg and a half cup of powdered 
sugar to a stiff froth; add one cup of whipped cream, mix 



424 Desserts 

lightly together, and flavor with one tablespoon of sherry. 
Set aside to chill. 

Caramel Sauce 

Put one and a half cups of brown sugar, three ounces of 
grated chocolate, and a half cup of cream into a saucepan; 
cook over hot water until all is smooth j then allow it to boil 
until a drop forms a jellylike ball when dropped into cold 
water. Add a teaspoon of vanilla flavoring and it is ready 
to serve. 

Lemon Sauce 

Boil one cup of sugar and one cup of water together until 
a drop forms a soft ball when dropped into cold water. 
Remove from the fire, add the juice of a lemon, and serve. 

SHORTCAKES 
Shortcake ft la Panchard ^ 

Beat six ounces of butter with ten ounces of sugar to a 
cream, then add three eggs, one at a time, and two gills 
of milk; when thoroughly mixed add two teaspoons of 
vanilla, then sift in one pound of flour with two teaspoons 
of baking powder. Cream all together and fill three shallow 
buttered and lightly floured jelly cake tins fuU, and when 
baked turn out to cool. When ready to lay up, cover each 
layer with a little vanilla pastry cream, then a layer of finely 
cut ripe peaches sifted with sugar, then add another layer 
of cake, and so on until finished, covering the top with 
sweetened whipped cream. 

Banana Shortcake 

Slice eight bananas into a bowl, turn over them a pint of 
cold vanilla syrup, and let stand while the cake is cooking. 
Take one pint of flour, two teaspoons of baking powder. 



Desserts 4^5 

half teaspoon of salt, a quarter cup of butter, and enough 
milk to make a stifE dough. Mix the dry ingredients to- 
gether, work in the butter with the hand, and add the milk 
slowly. Put onto the molding board, divide in half, 
divide each half again, then roll out or pat out the pieces 
until they fit shallow buttered jelly cake tins, place one piece 
in the tin, then butter the top of the dough and lay a sec* 
ond piece on top, so that the four bake in two pans. When 
done the cakes may be readily split and the filling be placed 
between them after the cakes have been buttered. Ttim 
a little extra vanilla syrup over the top so that all edges are 
moistened, then heap with whipped cream and serve. 

Apricot Shortcake 

Pare and halve four pounds of apricots, put them in 
a deep dish with three cups of sugar and the juice of a 
lemon. Let stand two hotirs, stirring occasionally. Set in 
the sun or a warm place. Make an old-fashioned biscuit 
cake, and when done split and butter freely. Drain the 
apricots and fill the cake with them; then put on the top 
layer of crust and heap with the fruit. Pour over it a 
generous quantity of the fruit juice, but save a pitcherful 
to turn over each portion as served. Plain cream may be 
served with the shortcake, if desired. 

Rhubarb Shortcake 

For the rhubarb shortcake biscuit dough will be found 
the best. Use half a pound of flour, half a teaspoon of 
salt, two of baking powder, two tablespoons of !ard, one 
of butter, and a half pint of milk; mix the butter and lard 
with the dry ingredients, slowly add the milk, and when 
thoroughly mixed divide in half, smoothing each into a well 
buttered tin. Bake for twelve to fifteen minutes in a quick 
oven, then remove, split, butter, and fill with a rich 
rhubarb stew which is quite spicy and sweet. Garnish the 
top with whipped cream and a few maraschino cherries. 



426 Desserts 

Jam Shortcake 

Make a biscuit dough shortcake and when baked split 
the layers and butter them thickly. Put in a thick layer 
of apricot jam, and spread another layer on top. Have 
ready melted a tumbler of apricot jelly, turn over all, and 
heap the top of the cake with whipped cream. 

Blueberry Shortcake 

For blueberry shortcake make the shortcake a little 
richer than biscuit dough, and when done split it into layers, 
fill each layer with the berries that have been mashed up in 
sugar, and when ready to serve add a fluff of whipped 
cream over the top. 

Orange Shortcake 

Cut in pieces ten oranges, removing seeds and as much of 
the white skin as possible. Add to them two cups of sugar, 
juice of two lemons, and one cup of grated pineapple. Let 
stand and chill. Make a good shortcake dough — bread 
dough is preferable — and bake in two shallow pans. When 
done split, butter generously, fill with the orange mixture, 
draining off some of the juice. This may be made into two 
cakes on the platter, or one high one of four layers. Pour 
over the cakes enough of the juice to moisten them suffi- 
ciently; serve the rest in a small tureen so that it may be 
turned over each portion. 

Strawberry Shortcake 

Wash and top two quarts of fresh ripe strawberries ; if the 
berries are large cut them in half and add to them two cups of 
sugar. Set aside and let stand three or four hours, stirring 
often. Make the shortcake of biscuit dough and when done 
split it in half and butter generously. Put in the berries 
and put them also over the top. Keep a cup of the juice 



Desserts 427 

to serve in a pitcher with the shortcake. If there is little 
juice le£t after la3ring up the cake take a cup of sugar, melt 
it with a half cup of water, let it cook three minutes, and add 
a little of the remaining juice to it and serve with the cake. 

Austrian Apple Strudel • 

Mix one pint of flour with a half cup of water, add four 
ounces of butter, a pinch of salt, and three eggs. Mix until 
smooth and roll the dough out on a floured board, as thin 
as possible. Have ready two cups of chopped apples, a cup 
of seeded raisins, a cup of sugar, and a teaspoon each of 
cinnamon and cloves and a grating of nutmeg mixed to- 
gether. Spread the dough lightly with some fresh butter, 
and sprinkle the fruit mixture over it. Roll the strudel, 
butter it over the outside, and bake. 

Poached Apricots 

Poached apricots are made by placing halves of very 
ripe, fresh fruit, or firm preserved fruit, on pieces of sponge 
cake, surrounding them with whipped cream to make them 
look like poached eggs. Slightly sweeten the cream and 
add a tiny scraping of the soft inside of vanilla bean for 
flavoring and put a spoonful of the apricot juice over the 
sponge cake. 

Apple Dumplings 

Mix one quart of flour with a teaspoon and a half of bak* 
ing powder and a saltspoon of salt. Add a large tablespoon 
of butter and lard mixed, and enough sweet miUc to make a 
soft dough. Roll out rather thick, cut into squares, in 
which a pared and quartered apple is placed, with sugar 
and a pinch of cinnamon sprinkled over it. Pinch the edges 
together, place in a deep pan with a lump of butter on each, 
and sprinkle with sugar and cinnamon. Fill the pan with 
boiling water, leaving only the top of the dumplings exposed, 
and bake forty-five minutes. Serve with hard sauce. 



428 Desserts 

TARTS AND SWEET FRITTERS 
Banana and Damson Tart 

Line a deep pie dish with thin paste. On it arrange a 
layer of sliced bananas (eight are used, sliced lengthwise). 
Next a mixture of two tablespoons of sugar, a little grated 
lemon peel, and three dessertspoons of nun is sprinkled 
over the bananas. The dish is filled up with preserved 
damsons, with a little of their juice, and the whole is cov- 
ered with a light, short crust. Bake three quarters of an 
hour in an even oven. The tart may be served hot or 
cold, according to taste, with a sauce composed of the yolk 
of one egg mixed with twice its weight of cream, one 
tablespoon of rum, and a wineglass of the plum syrup for 
sweetening. 

Frangipane Tart 

Mix half an ounce of flour with a little milk. Simmer a 
scant pint of milk with two bay leaves, a little lemon rind, 
and a pinch of grated nutmeg for about fifteen minutes. 
Strain this into the flour thickening. Add three ounces 
of butter, the same weight of sugar, eight eggs, beaten 
lightly. Allow the mixture to simmer until thick, but be 
careful that it does not boil. Line patty tins with puff 
paste and fill with the mixture after it has become cold. 
Bake twenty-five minutes in a moderate oven. 

Maids of Honor 

Take one cup of sweet milk and one cup of sour milk, put 
in a double boiler over boiling water and let stand long 
enough to set the curd. When set, strain off the milk and 
rub the curd through a sieve. Add to it a tablespoon of 
melted butter, a cup of sugar, yolks of four eggs, juice of one 
lemon, and a little of the grated peel. Have ready tartlet 
pans, lined with puff paste crimped at the edges; after 
beating the mixttire, pour it into the tarts and bake. 



Desaerts 429 

Peach Pufflets 

Mix one pint of flour, a pinch of salt, and one and a half 
teaspoons of baking powder, with enough milk to make a 
soft batter. Put into well greased little cups a spoon 
of batter and a spoon of cut-up peaches, then another of bat- 
ter; steam in steamer twenty minutes and serve with hard 
or good brandy sauce. 

Fanchonettes 

Fanchonettes are made Uke the old-fashioned custard pie, 
only they are the size of tarts. Prepare the crust in little 
patty pans and fill with a custard made of four yolks of 
eggs, two ounces of butter, two tablespoons of sugar, two 
beaten whites of eggs, three dessertspoons of flour, and three 
quarters of a pint of milk. Blend smoothly and bring 
to boiling point in a granite saucepan, then fiU the tarts 
and bake in a medium oven. When done whip the other 
two whites of eggs with two tablespoons of sugar for a 
m&ingue and let it lightly brown in the oven. When cold 
serve on a doily garnished with strips of angelica. 

Goosebeny Tart 

Line the tartlet pans with a good puff paste. With a 
pair of kitchen scissors top and tail one pint and a half of 
fresh gooseberries; fill the tartlet pans with the berries, 
piled high and covered with sugar. Lattice the top with 
crust and bake. Serve with a little sifted sugar^over the top 
and a pitcher of sweet cream. 



ite Grape Tart 

Line ramekin dishes with rich puff paste and bake in a 
brisk oven for about ten minutes. Let the paste cool, then 
fill with white grapes. Take six ounces of icing sugar, mix 
with one and a half tablespoons of water and a few drops of 
vanilla essence. Let cook for a few minutes and use while 
hot to glac6 over the grapes. 



430 Desserts 

Matron Tart 

Make the tartlets of good puff paste, and prepare the 
following mixture for a filling: One sweet pineapple, diced; a 
small bottle of preserved marrons cut in small pieces, and 
three tablespoons of ginger syrup. Fill the tartlets with 
this mixture, spreading a teaspoon of currant jelly on top 
of each, and bake a delicate brown. When ready to serve 
put a teaspoon of whipped cream on top of each tartlet 
with a half marron in the center. 

Polish Tarts 

Roll the puff paste thin and cut it into two-and-a-half- 
inch squares. Brush with the white of egg and turn down 
the points so that they meet in the middle. Sift a little 
sugar over them and bake fifteen minutes in a quick oven. 
When they are done fill the center with jam. 

Rhubarb Fritters 

Wipe six or eight sticks of rhubarb, and cut them into 
two-inch pieces. Make a batter with four otmces of sifted 
flour, a pinch of salt, a gill of milk, and the whites of two 
eggs beaten stiff. Let this stand for about an hour; dip 
the pieces of rhubarb in the batter, so that each piece is 
well covered; drop them into hot fat, or clarified drippings, 
and fry till they are a golden brown. Drain the fritters on 
a cloth or paper, dredge them with powdered sugar, place on 
a hot dish, and serve them very hot. If extreme sweetness 
is desired, the rhubarb can be parboiled in a syrup and 
drained before being fried. 

JELLIED DESSERTS 
Apricot Brandy Jelly 

Put one pound of sugar and one and a half pints of water 
in a stewpan to boil, skim it until it is clear. Simmer 



Desserts 431 

two ounces of gelatine in a half pint of water and skim 
that carefully. Put together and add the juice of two lemons 
and bring to the boiling point. Add a half pint scant 
measure of apricot brandy, let it stay covered and melt 
together, then strain into a mold and put upon the ice. 
When ready to serve dip the mold into hot water, 
loosen the edges with a knife and slip it onto the plate. 
It is usually served with ice cream, though whipped cream 
may be used, with a little preserved ginger on the side. 

Burgundy Cream 

Take one pound of strawberries, a half a pound of sugar, 
the juice of one lemon, a half glass of white wine, and 
a half otmce of powdered gelatine dissolved in a little 
water. Warm and melt all well together, then add a pint 
of whipped cream. Potir into a mold and set away to jell. 

Jellied Dates 

Cut half a pound of dates in halves and remove their 
stones; put them in a saucepan with one and a half cups 
of water and three tablespoons of sugar and cook them 
slowly until they are soft. Then add a heaping tablespoon 
of powdered gelatine which has been melted in the juice of 
an orange, a tablespoon of vanilla flavoring, and a few 
drops of green coloring. After stirring all together, pour 
into a wet ring mold. When chilled and ready to turn out, 
place on a platter and fill the center with whipped cream 
which has been slightly sweetened and to which a quarter 
cup of chopped pecan nuts has been added. 

Fruit JeUy 

Dissolve one package of gelatine in one half cup of cold 
water. Add one pint of boiling water, one cup of sugar, 
juice of two lemons, and one half pint of grape juice. Cool 
and add one cup of finely chopped walnuts, one cup of 



432 

Malaga grapes, halved and seeded, and one half cup of 
maraschino cherries. Chill and serve with sweetened 
whipped cream. 

Mac^doine of Fruits with Jelly 

Into a mold that has been on ice cut some firm fruit in 
small pieces and sprinkle it lightly with powdered sugar. 
Make an ordinary jeUy flavored with wine, and when it, is 
cold, but just beginning to stiffen, fill the mold and set 
away to harden. When ready to serve turn onto a platter 
and cover with whipped cream. Serve pound cake with it. 

Orange Cream 

Squeeze the juice of six oranges and one lemon into a 
saucepan with one and a half ounces of gelatine and sufficient 
water to make in all a pint and a half. Rub sugar on the 
orange and lemon rinds and add to the mixture. Simmer 
all together for about ten minutes, then strain through a 
muslin bag and beat a half pint of good cream with it. 
Wet a mold and pour ^ in the cream to set. Put on ice 
until ready to serve. Whipped cream may be used if 
desired with it. 

Raspberry Bavarian Cream 

Soak half a package of gelatine for two hours in half a 
cupful of water. In the meantime mash a quart of rasp- 
berries with a cupful of sugar and let them stand an hotu*. 
Whip a pint of cream to a stiff froth. Pour half a cupful of 
boiling water on the gelatine and strain it onto the juice. 
Put the liquid in a saucepan in a pan of water with ice in it. 
Beat the liquid until it is stiff as custard; stir in a pint of 
whipped cream. Put into the icebox to chill and serve 
with cream. 

Russian Cream 

Beat the yolks of four eggs with one cup of sugar, then add 
one quart of milk and cook like a custard. Take from the 



Desserts 433 

stove when slightly thickened and add the beaten whites of 
the eggs, stir weU together for a few moments, then add a 
half box of gelatine dissolved in one pint of warm water and 
the strained jtdce of a lemon. Pour into a wet mold and 
set away to harden. Served with whipped cream, this is a 
very pretty dessert, for if it is made just right, the jelly 
forms the top layer, when turned out, with the spongy 
cream at the bottom. Be stu*e that the mold is well wet 
before the mixture is ttuned into it, so that the cream will 
turn out perfectly when it is chilled. 

Spanish Cream 

Soak one half box gelatine in one quart of milk for one 
hour. Then put on the fire and stir until it begins to 
thicken. Add the yolks of three well beaten eggs and a cup 
of sugar. When it comes to boiling point strain into a mold 
and flavor with vanilla. Beat the whites with three table- 
spoons of sugar, flavor with vanilla, and use as a sauce when 
the cream is ready to serve. 

Strawberry Cream 

Soak one and one half tablespoons of granulated gelatine 
in one fourth cup cold water and dissolve in one third cup 
boiling water. Add one cup syrup made from fresh straw- 
berries and more sugar if not sweet enough. Set bowl con- 
taining mixture in pan of iced water and sti^ until mixttu'e 
begins to thicken; then fold in cream. 

Tutti Frutti Jelly 

Make a regular lemon jelly by dissolving three heaping 
tablespoons of gelatine in one and a half cups of warm water, 
and adding two cups of sugar, one gill of lemon juice, a little 
grated lemon peel, three cloves, one inch of cinnamon, and 
one teaspoon of coriander seeds. Beat all together, allow 
them to come to boiHng point, and then let stand for five 
38 



434 Desserts 

minutes and strain carefully. Have ready three medium 
sized peaches thinly sliced, one banana thinly sliced, a half 
cup of chopped and seeded raisins, a half cup of candied 
cherries, chopped with two strips of angeUca, and one sUce of 
candied pineapple. When the jelly is cool stir the fruit into 
it, turn all into a wet mold, and set away to chill. Serve 
very cold with plain cream. 

Isinglass, gelatine leaves, and agar-agar may be used in 
place of gelatine powder if desired; the latter may be 
procured at any drug store and is used in the same way 
as the gelatine. 

FRUIT DESSERTS 

Apple Meringues 

Stew two potmds of apples that have been quartered, 
pared, and seeded with four ounces of sugar imtil tender. 
Beat the yolks of six eggs with two ounces of sugar and pour 
over them one pint of boiling hot milk. Put this custard into 
a saucepan and cook until it is as thick as cornstarch pud- 
ding, drain the apples and arrange them in a dish, pour the 
custard over them, beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth 
with a little powdered sugar, cover the custard with the 
meringue, and place in the oven until lightly browned. 
This pudding may be served hot or chilled with whipped 
cream, according to taste and season. 

Apple Snow 

■ 

Peel and grate one large sour apple, sprinkling it with a 
cup of powdered sugar as you grate to keep it from turning 
dark, break into it the whites of two eggs, and beat all for a 
half hour. Pour into a glass dish and pour a rich custard 
arotmd it, chill and serve. 

Ginger Apples 

Wash and bruise one and a half ounces of ginger root, put 
it into a small jar, and cover it with a quarter of a pint of 



Desserts . 435 

good whiskey; let it stand three days. Add to it the juice 
of two big lemons and two pounds of sugar, pare, core, and 
slice into it three pounds of apples, and sinuner all together 
until the apples are transparent but not broken. Remove 
the apples and strain the juice over them. Serve cold with 
cake and garnish with candied lemon peel. 

Marmalade au Cr^e 

A pretty apple dessert dish is made by turning a smaU 
amount of apple marmalade into a mold wet with cold 
water. When set and chilled, place on a deep plate, sprinkle 
thickly with powdered pecan nuts, turn a rich, cold custard 
arotmd it, and heap whipped cream on top. 

Blackberry Beaumont 

Pick over and wash carefully one and a half pounds of 
blackberries and put them in a saucepan with a pound and a 
half of cored, peeled, and sliced cooking apples, one and a 
half cups of sugar, and one gill of water. Cool slowly until 
soft, then rub through a sieve. This should make about one 
and a half cups of the pulp. Dissolve one heaping table- 
spoon of gelatine in a gill of hot water, and add to the 
DMxture; stir all together, then pour into a wet mold and 
allow it to set. Serve with sweetened whipped cream and 
garnish with a few of the ripe blackberries. 

Banana Sou£Si6 

SUce six ripe bananas into a glass dish, have ready a 
good rich boiled custard not too thick and flavored with 
lemon and turn over the bananas, beat stifiE three whites of 
egg with a Uttle powdered sugar and flavor it with lemon 
juice, then drop it by spoonfuls over the top, put a cherry 
on each little white mound, chill, and serve. 

Banana Omelet 

To eight fresh eggs add a gill of cream, two saltspoons of 
white pepper, one of salt, and a dash of sugar. Beat with a 



436 

silver fork for two minutes. Slice and fry to delicate 
brown two bananas in melted butter, tossing them lightly. 
When finished, turn the eggs into the pan over the bananas, 
beat for two minutes, then let them rest half a minute to set. 
Fold the sides of the center, let cook a minute or two, but 
do not bum. Turn onto a hot plate, sprinkle with pow- 
dered sugar, and garnish with strips of angelica and mara- 
schino cherries. 

Cherry Puffs 

Mix well one pint of flour with one and a half teaspoons 
of baking powder and a generous pinch of salt; make into a 
soft batter with milk. Butter weU as many little cups 
as are needed and in the bottom of each place a tablespoon 
of pitted cherries that have been dusted with sugar, then a 
tablespoon of the batter, another of the cherries and another 
of the batter. Set the cups in a steamer and steam twenty 
minutes; turn out and serve with a hot vanilla pudding 
sauce. 

Date Sotiffl§ 

For a date souiSl^ take one pound of stoned and chopped 
dates, moisten with a little thin sugar S3aiip to which a 
little sherry and the stiffly beaten whites of five eggs 
have been added; bake in a hot oven. When it puffs up 
a delicate brown it is done. Serve at once with whipped 
cream. 

Dates 

Remove the seed from the date, place an almond in its 
place, roll in powdered sugar, lay in a glass dish, and cover 
with whipped cream. 

Figs in Honey 

Soak half a potmd of cleanly washed, whole figs tmtil they 
are soft, then stew them in a cup of honey and a cup of 



Desserts 437 

water until they are very tender. They may be served hot, 
with just a little of the juice, or they may be drained, 
cooled, and served with a little cream. 

Dried peaches, apricots, and apples may be soaked, then 
stewed and served with boiled custard or rennet custard, 
or they may be put through a purfe sieve after stewing and 
made into a fruit pur^ by adding to them a little hot 
milk or cream. 

Supreme of Fruits 

Cut into small pieces the following fruits: Pears, peaches, 
canteloupe, a few strawberries and red raspberries. Sweeten 
to taste and add a small glass of pineapple juice. Gar- 
nish with strips of angelica and a few frosted mint leaves, 
and serve very cold. 9 

Orange Souffl6 

Peel and slice eight oranges. Place in a deep dish and 
sprinkle sugar between each layer. Make a rich, soft 
custard, and when cool, pour over the oranges. Whip 
the whites of three eggs stiflE with three tablespoons of 
powdered sugar and spread over the top of the custard. 
Put in a very hot oven for two minutes to brown, then 
chill thoroughly. 

Orange Chocolate Quarters 

Peel and break into segments six sweet oranges, removing 
the white skin and being careful not to break the skin 
so that the juice runs. Moisten a half cake of sweet choco- 
late and three quarters of a cup of sugar with a half cup of 
water and boil three minutes. Then have ready the beaten 
whites of two eggs. Pour the mixture on the eggs and beat 
until thick and cool. Dip the orange quarters into it and 
lay them on wax paper to drain and glaze. Serve with ice 
cream or fancy cake. 



438 

Peach Bavaroise 

Cut eight fine large peaches in half, peel» and remove their 
stones. Cook the halves carefully in a pint of vanilla 
syrup. When done, drain and place them on a wire sieve 
to cool. Boil a quarter pint of milk and add to it the 
well beaten yolks of two eggs and let it cook just enough 
to bind the eggs; then add four leaves of gelatine which 
have been soaked in cold water, two tablespoons of sugar and 
when all is melted strain into a bowl and set away to chill. 
Whip one half pint of heavy cream and when the custard 
is cold cover it with one half of the whipped cream. Dice 
a slice of preserved pineapple and cut a few candied cherries 
and strew over the top. When chilled arrange the peaches 
on top, leaving a space in the center in which to pile the 
remainder of the whipped cream. 

Baked Pears 

Fill a buttered baking dish with pared and quartered 
ripe pears, arrange with layers of stale cake crumbs rolled 
fine, sprinkle with a half cup of sugar, and add a cup of 
strained honey and a wingelass of brandy. Bake a delicate 
brown, remove from the oven and spread a mdringue on 
top and return to the oven for a minute or two to brown; 
cool, chill, and serve with whipped cream. 

Princess Pear 

Cut a large, ripe pear in quarters, remove seeds and core, 
and stuff with brandied cherries. Place on white lettuce 
leaves or surrotmd with whipped cream. Garnish with 
berries. 

Pineapple Whip 

For the pineapple whip take one ripe pineapple, pare, 
slice, and remove from the center of each slice the hard 



Desserts 439 

core. Chop or cut coarsely, and add to it a tablespoon 
of sugar, the juice squeezed from the hard centers, and 
one cup of marshmaUow whip. Mix together, and add 
three tablespoons of sherry and half a cup of whipped cream. 
The mixture may be ttimed over squares of plain cake or 
used with ice cream, or over berries^ or alone. It is a 
very dainty summer dessert. 

Prune Whip 

Stew one pound of large prunes until they are tender. 
Drain them and when slightly cool remove the pits, and 
chop the pulp fine. Add a little sugar and enough whipped 
cream to beat the pulp very light with a silver fork. Chill, 
heap in a parfait glass, and garnish with a cherry. 

Baked Quinces 

Select enough quinces to fill a baking dish; pare, core, 
and arrange them in the dish, fill their centers with honey 
and sprinkle them with sugar, then fill the dish with cold 
water and bake them in the oven until they are tender when 
tried with a straw and are a good red color. Remove from 
the pan, drain, and when cold remove to a fancy plate; chill 
and when ready to serve cover with whipped cream; sprinkle 
the top with powdered macaroons and dot with red cherries. 

Raspberries Exquisite 

Wash two baskets of raspberries, sugar them, and turn 
over them a wineglass of Curagoa, and then place in the 
cooler. Pass through the ptu:^ sieve another basket 
of berries, adding sugar and sweetened whipped cream. 
Drain the juice from the other berries, place in a tall glass 
of cracked ice, pour over the cream mixture, and serve very 
cold. 



44^ Desserts 

ATTRACTIVE WATS TO SERVE MELONS 
Cantaloupe Supreme 

The "cantaloupe supreme" is made by choosing slender 
oval cantaloupes and cutting the melon into points with a 
sharp knife before pulling it apart. Take out the seeds. Then 
carefully scoop themelonflesh out with a small potato scoop, 
add a few segments of grapefruit that has been chilled 
like the melon, sprinkle with a little powdered sugar, a 
little grating of nutmeg, and a dash of apricot brandy, 
return to the shells and serve on individual plates, with 
fruit fork at the side. 

Cantaloupe Baskets 

Cut the melon basket fashion and take out flesh with ball 
cutter. Chill the balls, and just before serving turn a little 
apricot brandy over each. A few sliced peaches sweetened 
and folded in a little whipped cream may be used as a gar« 
nish over the top. 

Cassaba Melon 

ChiU the melon and then cut it in half. Scoop out the 
flesh in balls with a melon scoop and heap them back in the 
shell, dusting them with powdered sugar and two table- 
spoons of sherry mixed with a teaspoon of ginger syrup. 
Serve very cold. 

Watennelon 

The watermelon after being thoroughly chilled may be 
cut apart with points, then cut down but not separated 
like a lotus blossom if it is to be served plain at. table. Or 
it may be cut basket fashion with a high handle. The 
fruit is an taken out by spoonfuls, the seeds removed, and 
the basket is then filled half full of shaven ice with the 
melon on top and the melon put on the table, with a big 



Desserts 44 < 

pink bow tied to the handle. This is very decorative for a 
centerpiece at a melon feast. 

Watermelon Squares 

Cut the melon into thick squares, free from seeds, and 
hollow them out with a teaspoon. Fill each with ice- 
cream. Take fresh macaroons, smear their flat surfaces 
with a little maple S3rrup, and stick them around the square 
sides of the melon, two on each side, or one on a side if they 
are large. 

Watermelon Sandwiches 

These are made by cutting the ripe, well chilled melon 
lengthways in one-inch slices. Remove the seeds and cujt 
into four-inch squares. Split these if necessary and spread 
thickly between the slices with vanilla French ice cream and 
on top of each spread pistachio cream. Serve as quickly as 
they are prepared with an ice cream fork and sweet wafers. 

Watermelon Jelly 

Take enough of watermelon pulp to rub through a 
sieve and make about three cupfuls. Add enough cold 
water to it to make one quart altogether. Put it into a 
saucepan, add three tablespoons of gelatine mixed in a little 
cold water, three ounces of sugar, the rind of one lemon, 
three cloves and one bay leaf, and the whites and shells of 
two eggs. Beat over the fire until it comes to a boiling 
point. Keep it there for three minutes, then strain, cool, 
and turn into a wet mold. When set turn onto a platter, 
heap with whipped cream which has had a little sugar and a 
few chopped nuts mixed with it. Cantaloupe jelly may be 
made in the same way, only it may be turned into its own 
hollowed shells to harden. 

If the water melon is to be served plain for dessert it is 
very good to plug it and turn into it two bottles of imported 



442 Desserts 

ginger ale, chill it, and when ready to serve cut in strips 
piled log-cabin fashion on the plates to be eaten with the 
fingers instead of a fork. 

PIES 

In making pie crust that known as puff paste will be 
found the most difficult to make, for it reqtiires practice 
and skill to bring it to that point of flaky tenderness and 
hghtness for which it is famed. If properly made the puff 
paste will rise in the oven and bake in light flaky layers 
without greasiness. 

The beginner must learn to handle it lightly and as Utfle 
as possible in rolling and turning, and it shotdd also be 
placed in the ice-box for several hours after it is made before 
baking. 

Pastry flour is best for pie cnists and there are several 
good brands to be had. This flour is Ughter in texture 
than the bread flours. 

PuffPtete 

Take three cups of flour that has been sifted seven times 
and add to it a saltspoon of salt, one cup of butter, and the 
yolk of one egg. The paste must be made in a cool place. 
Place the butter and egg yolk in the center of the flour and 
begin to work in the center drawing in the flour from the 
outer ring. As it begins to take up the flour add slowly a 
little ice water, using in all about one cup. Work until the 
paste is smooth and fine, then place it in the ice-box for 
fifteen minutes. Put it back on the board and roll it the 
size of a dinner plate. Place on it one cup of butter and 
wrap over it the edges of dough, carefully covering it. 
Turn the dough over and roll very thin; then fold it square 
in three, roU out, and repeat twice more. Then place the 
dough in a tin over cracked ice and place another tin of 
cracked ice over it, allowing it to stand thus for five 
minutes between each rolling and folding. Then remove 



Deaaerta 443 

the paste to a cold dish and let it stand in the ice-box for 
several hours before making the pies. 

Plain Pie Crust 

Take three cups of sifted flour, sifted three times, and 
add to it a saltspoon of salt, a half teaspoon of good bak- 
ing powder, a half cup of butter, and a quarter cup of fresh 
lard; work the mixture to a paste, using a cup of iced water, 
or a cup of sweet cream. Roll the paste thin and it is ready 
for use. 

Hot Water Pie Crust 

This is a method introduced by the Domestic Science 
Department of a western college. The recipe calls for three 
cupfuls of sifted flour, one half teaspoon of salt, and one half 
teaspoon of baking powder sifted together. Put into the 
mixing bowl first a half cup of butter and one quarter cup of 
lard. Add to the shortening one half cup of boiling water 
and beat with a fork until all is creamy. Sift in the flour 
mixture slowly, beating it the while, and when all is mixed 
roll out the crust. This recipe makes crust enough for two 
pies. When half the crust is needed, wrap the remaining 
dough in wax paper and put it where it is very cold until 
dough for another pie is required. This is the quickest 
known method of pie making. 

There are many new substitutes for butter and lard, some 
of which can be highly recommended, but nothing has yet 
been fotmd to excel pure sweet butter and pure lard. 
Therefore all the recipes herein given are made with the 
pure and well known ingredients. 

If the housekeeper wishes to try the new shortenings, 
she will find adequate directions supplied by the firms who 
put the products forwfird. 

A good way to use up leftover crust is to roll it out thin 
and shape it over well buttered layer tins turned upside 



444 Desserta 

down. This makes shells which, when filled with fresh 
fruit heaped with whipped cream, are good for a change. 

Puff Paste Rings 

Roll the puff paste to a quarter of an inch thickness 
and with a ro\Lnd fluted cutter make as many rings as are 
required. Roll the dough again and cut out the bottoms, 
brush with egg, and bake a delicate brown, when they are 
ready to serve sweets or vegetables in. 

Ptotry Flowers 

Roll the paste out to a quarter of an inch thickness and 
cut the rings and bottoms as before; blanch and cut three 
ounces of almonds in half, stick them around the edge, 
brush with egg and dust with powdered sugar and bake; 
when done fill with red jam and lay with a strip of angelica 
between each almond, and they look quite like flowers. 
They are pretty to serve with afternoon tea. 

The hollow glass rolling pin to be filled with shaved 
ice for use in pastry making, while not new, is a very clever 
invention. 

The double trolling pin has two handles, one at either end. 
It does double the work of the single pin and is easy to 
operate. 

Plain Apple Pie 

Pare and slice thin tart apples enough, carefully and 
thoroughly removing the cores, to fill the pie plate quite 
full. Add one cup of sugar, a saltspoon of grated nutmeg, 
and three quarters of a cup of iced water, or less if the pie 
plate is shidlow. Dot a teaspoon of butter in little Itmips 
over the top, put on the top crust, and bake in a meditmi 
oven until tiie crust is a delicate brown on top, about thirty 
minutes. 

This pie may be served plain with a square of American 



Desserts 445 

cheese, or with whipped cream, plain cream, or vanilla ice 
cream on top. 

A saltspoon of cinnamon may also be added to the flavor- 
ing of the pie if it is Uked. 

Apple Sauce Pie 

Make a good, rich, stiff apple sauce; strain and beat it 
quite light, adding to it one stiiHy beaten egg white and a 
teaspoon of melted butter. Fill the crust lined pie plate 
with it and bake tmtil the top crust is a delicate brown. 

Old-Fashioned Apple Pie 

Line the buttered pie plate with good pie crust, then fill the 
pie with carefully pared, cored, and sliced Spitzenburg apples. 
Dust over them a half cup of sugar and dot with little lumps 
of butter. Putinacupa tablespoon of flour, a half teaspoon 
of ground ginger, and three quarters of a cup of molasses. 
Stir until all is smooth, then turn into the pie, put on the top 
crust, and bake in a medium oven. If the pie is inclined to 
run over, increase the heat and cook it quickly. Serve 
with the pie squares of good rich dairy cheese. 

Apricot Pie 

Line a pie plate with a good puff paste; pare, stone, and 
halve enough apricots to fill the dish. Sprinkle with sugar, 
then add three qtiarters of a cup of syrup taken from a jar of 
Canton ginger, with a piece of the ginger finely chopped 
through it. Mix a tablespoon of flour with the syrup; then 
pour all over the fruit. Put on the top crust and bake in a 
medium oven. Use a deep pie plate so the syrup will not 
run out in the oven. 

Banana Custard Pie 

Line a deep pie plate with good pie crust and dent the 
edge with the tines of a silver fork. Mash very fine two 



44^ Desserta 

large ripe bananas, add to them one cup of sugar, one salt- 
spoon of salt, the juice of a large juicy lemon, and two 
beaten eggs. Beat all until very light, then turn into the 
crust and bake. A meringue may be added if desired, made 
of the whites of two eggs, two tablespoons of powdered sugar, 
and a teaspoon of lemon juice. 

Banana Mincemeat 

Chop fine one pound of boiled beef, add one cup of butter, 
one cup of molasses, one cup orange marmalade, one cup of 
rose jelly,, one cup stoned raisins, the grated rind and juice 
of one lemon, a teaspoon of salt, a cup and a half of brown 
sugar, a teaspoon each of cinnamon, cloves, and nutmeg, and 
one cup of vinegar. When ready to make the pies, use one 
cup of the mincemeat to one cup of finely chopped ripe 
banana. 

Butterscotch Pie 

# 

Make this in a double cooker, so that it will not Itmip. 
Ingredients: One cup of white sugar and one cup of brown 
sugar, three tablespoons of butter; add the yolks of three 
eggs, four tablespoons of flour, one and one half cups of 
sweet milk, one and one half cups of water, one teaspoon 
of vanilla. Put this in a cooked pie crust; then take the 
whites that are left and make a meringue; brown lightly. 

Blackberry Jelly Pie 

Squeeze three boxes of ripe blackberries, after slightly 
warming them, and to each pint of juice add a pint of sugar; 
boil about twenty n^nutes, and when cool fill the pie three 
quarters full. The rest of the jelly may be put into glasses 
for future use. When the crust is done, remove the pie and 
let it cool ; then spread the top with a good meringue, brown 
in the oven, and let it stand and get cold. 



Desserts 447 

Blueberry Pie 

Wash and carefully pick over one quart of large blue- 
berries. Put them into the crust lined pie plate with a cup 
and a half of sugar and three quarters of a cup of cold water. 
Put on the top crust and bake. Huckleberry pie is made in 
the same way. Mulberry pie is made in the same way only 
that a quarter of the amount of sugar is used, and the juice 
of a lemonis added to the water, which in this case is a quar- 
ter of a cup. Raspberry and blackcap pie is made the same 
as the blueberry, only using half the quantity of water. 

Cherry Cream Pie 

Line the pie plate with rich flaky crust. Open a quart 
jar of preserved cherries, strain them and heat the juice, 
adding to it a cup of cream; thicken slightly with cornstarch 
and when slightly cool fill in the cherries and turn over 
the cream; put on the top crust and bake. This is a very 
rich pie, and a good one if it is carefully made. 

Deep Dish Cherry Pie 

This is an old-fashioned recipe. Line a deep pie dish with 
good crust and fill with stoned cherries and a cup and a half 
of sugar. Make a lattice crust over the top and bake well. 
Serve hot. 

Cocoanut Pie 

Line a deep pie plate with good pie crust; over half of a 
grated cocoanut pour one pint of milk heated to boiling point, 
add two tablespoons of butter, a half cup of sugar, four well 
beaten eggs, and after potuing into the pie crust add a little 
dusting of nutmeg over the top. Bake the same length of 
time and test the same as is done with a custard pie. 

Custard Pie 

Beat into one quart of rich milk that has been warmed 
five eggs beaten with three tablespoons of sugar, flavor 



44^ Desserts 

large ripe bananas, add to them one cup of sugar, one salt- 
spoon of salt, the juice of a large juicy lemon, and two 
beaten eggs. Beat all until very light, then turn into the 
crust and bake. A meringue may be added if desired, made 
of the whites of two eggs, two tablespoons of powdered sugar, 
and a teaspoon of lemon juice. 

Banana Mincemeat 

Chop fine one pound of boiled beef, add one cup of butter, 
one cup of molasses, one cup orange marmalade, one cup of 
rose jelly^ one cup stoned raisins, the grated rind and juice 
of one lemon, a teaspoon of salt, a cup and a half of brown 
sugar, a teaspoon each of cinnamon, cloves, and nutmeg, and 
one cup of vinegar. When ready to make the pies, use one 
cup of the mincemeat to one cup of finely diopped ripe 
banana. 

Butterscotch Pie 

Make this in a double cooker, so that it will not lump. 
Ingredients: One cup of white sugar and one cup of brown 
sugar, three tablespoons of butter; add the yolks of three 
eggs, four tablespoons of flour, one and one half cups of 
sweet milk, one and one half cups of water, one teaspoon 
of vanilla. Put this in a cooked pie crust; then take the 
whites that are left and make a meringue; brown lightly. 

Blackberry Jelly Pie 

Squeeze three boxes of ripe blackberries, after slightly 
warming them, and to each pint of juice add a pint of sugar; 
boil about twenty minutes, and when cool fill the pie three 
quarters full. The rest of the jelly may be put into glasses 
for future use. When the crust is done, remove the pie and 
let it cool ; then spread the top with a good meringue, brown 
in the oven, and let it stand and get cold. 



Desserts 447 

Blueberry Pie 

Wash and carefully pick over one quart of large blue- 
berries. Put them into the crust lined pie plate with a cup 
and a half of sugar and three quarters of a cup of cold water. 
Put on the top crust and bake. Huckleberry pie is made in 
the same way. Mulberry pie is made in the same way only 
that a quarter of the amount of sugar is used, and the juice 
of a lemonisadded to the water, which in this case is a quar- 
ter of a cup. Raspberry and blackcap pie is made the same 
as the blueberry, only using half the quantity of water. 

Cheny Cream Pie 

Line the pie plate with rich flaky crust. Open a quart 
jar of preserved cherries, strain them and heat the juice, 
adding to it a cup of cream; thicken slightly with cornstarch 
and when slightly cool fill in the cherries and turn over 
the cream; put on the top crust and bake. This is a very 
rich pie, and a good one if it is carefully made. 

Deep Dish Cherry Pie 

This is an old-fashioned recipe. Line a deep pie dish with 
good crust and fill with stoned cherries and a cup and a half 
of sugar. Make a lattice crust over the top and bake well. 
Serve hot. 

Cocoanut Pie 

Line a deep pie plate with good pie crust; over half of a 
grated cocoanut pour one pint of milk heated to boiling point, 
add two tablespoons of butter, a half cup of sugar, four well 
beaten eggs, and after pouring into the pie crust add a Uttle 
dusting of nutmeg over the top. Bake the same length of 
time and test the same as is done with a custard pie. 

Custard Pie 

Beat into one quart of rich milk that has been warmed 
five eggs beaten with three tablespoons of sugar, flavor 



44^ Deaserts 

with a teaspoon of vanilla flavoring and a small grating of 
nutmeg. Turn into the pie crust and bake until the cus- 
tard is set. This may be determined by sticking a silver 
knife into the custard. If it is done just right the knife 
will come out clean. Cooking usually takes about twenty 
to thirty minutes, according to the heat of the oven. 

Frosted Custard Pie 

Line the pie dish with good puff paste. Take one quart 
of rich milk and beat into it four eggs, a pinch of salt, a 
half cup of sugar, a teaspoon of vanilla flavoring, and a 
grating of nutmeg. Turn all into the crust and bake. 
When done and col4, frost the pie in the following way: 
Put a quarter of a cup of ice water in a bowl, add a saltspoon 
of cream of tartar, and stir in sufficient triple sugar to 
make an icing that wiU pour. Turn it evenly over the pie 
and set away to harden. 

Damson Plum Pie 

Take one quart of Damson plums, wash, prick with a 
needle, and stew in a pint of water with a pint of sugar. 
When stewed tender, cool, fill the crust lined pie plate 
with them, and bake until the crust is done. If the stones 
are removed twice the quantity of fruit must be used. 

Dried Fruit Pies. 

When fresh fruits are not available, dried fruits will be 
found very good to use in pie making. Only the best 
quality of dried fruit should be used. In making the pies, 
use deep pie plates and good homemade crust, but not 
necessarily puff paste. 

Dried Apple Pie 

Soak a half pound of dried apples overnight. In the 
morning, stew them until tender with four slices of lemon. 



Desserts 449 

two cloves, and a stick of cinnamon. When tender, add a 
cup and a half of sugar and let all stew down rather rich 
and thick. When cool, remove lemon and cinnamon, drain 
off a half cup of the syrup and add to it a teaspoon of groimd 
ginger, a teaspoon of flour, and two teaspoons of molasses. 
Drain the apples and add them to the pie, then add the gin- 
ger mixture and as much of the syrup as the pie will hold; 
add the top crust and bake. Serve the pie hot, with a 
square of good dairy cheese on the side. 

Dried Cherry Pie 

Take one pound of dried cherries and soak them over- 
night. In the morning, stew them until they are tender, 
then add a cup and a half of sugar and cook down until 
the syrup is rich and heavy. When cool fill the pie with the 
cherries and as much juice as it will take, and put on the 
top crust. This pie is good hot or cold, served with cream. 

Pear Pie 

Take one pound of dried pears and soak them until they 
puff up; then put them on to stew with as little water as 
possible, watching them carefully lest they bum. When 
they are tender, add a cup of preserved Canton ginger 
and S3rrup, after chopping the ginger pieces small. Add a 
teaspoon of lemon juice, a little of the grated peel, and a 
half cup of sugar. When all is thoroughly mixed, let cool 
slightly and then fill the pie crust. Serve hot. 

Prune Pie 

Soak a pound of large prunes for a couple of hours, then 
stew them carefully. When the prunes are done, remove 
them from the liquid, and, to a cup or a little more of the 
juice, add a cup of sugar and a teaspoon of lemon juice; 
then boil to a thick syrup. While it boils, put in a stick of 
cinnamon. Remove the seeds from the prunes and chop 

20 



45^ Desserts 

them fine. After they are chopped, fill the pie crust, which 
has been baked like a tart shell, with the fruit and add 
enough syrup to make it the right consistency; then heap 
the top with whipped cream and it is ready to serve. 

Raisin Pie 

Take a cup and a half of large seeded raisins and let them 
stand in a cup of vanilla syrup for one hour. Add to the 
raisins a half cup of finely chopped pecan nuts, the crumbs 
of a dozen stale macaroons, juice of half a lemon, a quarter 
cup of melted butter, and one heaping teaspoon of flour 
mixed smooth in a little of the S3nnip. Potir mixttu*e into 
crust, put on top crust, and bake until the crust is done. 

Green Tomato Pie 

To make the filling for this pie one must wash and chop 
four quarts of green tomatoes fine. Allow three pounds of 
brown sugar, the juice of two lemons, and the grated rind 
of one; a tablespoon of cinnamon, one of allspice, one of 
salt, a half teaspoon of cloves, and one grated nutmeg. 
Put all into a porcelain lined kettle and simmer gently one 
hour, or until reduced one half in bulk. Then add two 
pounds of seeded raisins, a cup of seeded and chopped 
prunes, and a cup of boiled cider. Cook down an hour and 
a half longer, until the mixture is thick; allow it to cool, 
then use as needed for pie filling. 

Shallit 

Line a deep pie plate with good crust. Put in a layer of 
chopped apple, a little grated lemon peel, bits of butter, 
and two tablespoons of thin vanilla syrup. Cover with an- 
other layer of pastry; put on top of this another layer 
of chopped apple with a half cup of seeded raisins, half a cup 
of chopped nut meats, the jttice of half a lemon; dot with 



Desserts 451 

butter, and add three tablespoons vanilla syrup. Put on 
the top crust and seal it with the white of an egg. Butter 
the top and bake. 

Princess Lemon Fie 

Line a deep, well buttered pie plate with good puff paste, 
pressing the edge with the tines of a silver fork. For the 
filling use one cup of sugar, one cup of milk, four eggs, 
one tablespoon of flour, and one large lemon — juice and 
grated rind. Beat the yolks of the eggs and a cup of sugar 
together and add the lemon juice, beating it all thoroughly. 

Mix the flour and the milk together as smoothly as 
possible and strain into the other noixttu-e, then pour into 
the pie plate, baking it for thirty minutes. Beat the yolks 
of the eggs very stiff with two tablespoons of powdered 
sugar. When the pie is done spread the meringue over 
the top, place it in the oven, and brown it quickly. The pie 
may be served hot or cold, as desired, and either way it will 
be fotmd particularly rich and of fine flavor. 

Mince Pie 

To one pint of good shaker mincemeat add two cups of 
finely chopped apples, a cup of large seeded raisins, a cup of 
strained honey, a wineglass of brandy, and two tablespoons 
of apricot cordial ; mix all thoroughly. This amount of meat 
should fill two deep-dish pies. 

There are several other brands of mincemeat, so one 
does not have to make it at home unless they wish to do so. 

Mock Cherry Pie 

Chop two cups of cranberries and one cup of seeded 
raisins, add two cupfuls of sugar and one of boiling water, 
one teaspoon of vanilla and two teaspoons of flour. Use a 
good pie crust and bake as usual. 



45^ Desserts 

Orange Pie 

■ 

Cream together three quarters of a cup of sugar and a 
scant tablespoon of butter. Beat together the yolks of 
three eggs with the white of one and add to the butter and 
sugar. Mix together the juice of one orange, half a lemon, 
a little of the grated peel, and a dash of nutmeg. Have 
ready a pie plate lined with good puff paste and turn in the 
mixture and bake. When done beat the whites of the eggs 
stiff with two tablespoons of powdered sugar, spread lightly 
over the pie, and brown a minute or two in the oven. 

Ftesh Pmeapple Pie 

Grate or chop one large sweet pineapple, add to it one cup 
of sugar, a quarter cup of butter, one cup of cream, and 
five beaten eggs. Pour the mixture into a good under 
crust, and when baked put a meringue on top. 

Rhubarb Pie 

Pare and dice two and a half cups of fresh rhubarb. 
Put in a saucepan and cover with cold water; let it come 
quickly to a boil, then stand at boiling point, for ten 
minutes. Drain. When cool fill the pie, adding one cup 
of sugar. This method removes all of the tmpleasant and 
poisonous add from the rhubarb. 

Fresh Peach Pie 

Line a deep pie plate with good rich crust and fill the pie 
with ripe cut peaches. Take a cup and a half of sugar 
and a half cup of water and put it into a saucepan with a 
spice bag and half a thinly sliced lemon; let the mixture 
melt, then slowly come to boiling point and boil five 
minutes; remove from the fire and let stand and cool. 
When cold remove the lemon and the spice bag and turn 
over the peaches, put on the top crust and bake. Serve hot 
with plain cream or cold with whipped cream. 



Desserts 453 

Pumpkin Pie 

Cut in pieces one large ptimpkin, pare, remove the seeds, 
and put to boil. When tender enough to mash, drain. 
Mash and add to the pxilpa teaspoon of salt, a cup of molas- 
ses, a cup of sugar, a level tablespoon of ground ginger, a 
teaspoon of vanilla, and when cool, the beaten whites of 
three eggs and a cup of cream. This should be sufficient 
filling for two pies, or three if the pumpkin is a large one. 

Washington Pie 

Version No. i — Cream two eggs with three tablespoons 
of butter and one cup of powdered sugar; when smooth, add 
alternately a half cup of milk and two small cups of Sour. 
Beat thoroughly, then add one heaping teaspoon of baking 
powder. Bake in jelly tins and lay up with soft frosting in 
which a little orange marmalade has been beaten. 

Version No. 2 — Set a pint of milk to boil. Break two 
eggs into a dish, and add one cup of sugar and a half cup of 
flour. After beating vigorously, stir it into the hot milk as 
it comes to a boil. Add one ounce of butter and two tea- 
spoons of vanilla ; stir the mixture until it thickens. For the 
crust, use three eggs, one cup of sugar, one and a half 
cups of flour, a teaspoon of baking powder, and two table- 
spoons of milk. Mix thoroughly, then divide the batter 
into two equal parts and cook them in layer tins in a quick 
oven. When they are done and cool, split each with a sharp 
knife and lay them up with the cream, dusting the top with 
powdered sugar. 

Version No. 3 — Line a pie plate with good pie crust. 
Beat two egg yolks with a half cup of sugar and four grated 
apples; add a teaspoon of melted butter, a dash of salt, 
and a grating of nutmeg. Bake in the crust and when done 
put a m&ingue on the top and set it back in the oven just 
long enough to brown the m6ringue. 



454 Desserts 

Version No. 4 — ^Take three quarters of a pound of butter 
and cream it with one and a half pounds of brown sugar; 
add six eggs, the yolks beaten with one pint of sweet milk. 
Sift in one and three quarter pounds of flour, two teaspoons 
of baking powder, and lastly fold in the stiffly beaten whites 
of the eggs. Have ready a half pound of currants washed 
and dried, a half pound of stoned raisins, a quarter pound of 
finely sliced citron, a grated nutmeg, and two teaspoons of 
vaniUa flavoring; sprinkle the fruit with a little flour before 
adding it to the cake. Mixwellandbakein a shallow square 
pan for an hour and three quarters. Cover the cake with a 
deep soft sugaring and ornament it with a border of little 
pink and white candies. 

Version No. 5 — Line a deep pie plate with good crust. 
Add to one and a half pints of milk three tablespoons of 
com starch, one cup of sugar, two tablespoons of butter, a 
teaspoon of vanilla flavoring, and the rind of a lemon. Be- 
fore adding the cornstarch, dissolve it in a little cold milk. 
When the milk has thickened slightly with the cornstarch, 
draw it aside and add the beaten egg yolks, butter, and 
flavoring. Pour the mixture at once into the pie crust, 
removing the lemon rind. Bake for twenty minutes, or 
until the crust is done. Remove from the oven, add a 
mdringue, return to the oven and brown it; serve hot or cold. 



CAKES 

The making of good cake is a knack to be acquired only 
after much practice. In studying the rudiments of cake- 
making, the beginner should never attempt anything un- 
usual until after she has learned to make perfect plain, 
poimdy sponge, and raisin cakes. 

Only the freshest eggs, best quality butter, rich sweet 
milk, the best pastry flours, pure baking powder, and 
filtered water should be used for cake making if best results 
are to be had. 

Cake is best baked in a rising oven, where the heat 
gradually increases. The most important thing to be seen 
to, if baking by a coal oven, is the condition of the fire so 
that it will keep the oven at the right temperature. Gas 
and electric stoves can, of course, be more readily regulated, 
though in both the latter ovens a pan of water i& generally 
put in during the cooking of cakes to keep the air moist. 
Cooks of wide experience agree that, after testing all modes 
of cooking, the gauze-door coal range is the ideal cake 
baker. 

Pound Cake 

Three quarters of a potmd of butter and one pound of 
powdered sugar mixed together thoroughly; to this add the 
beaten yolks of ten eggs, and sift in one pound of flour, one 
half teaspoon of baking powder, and a pinch of salt; last of all 
fold in the whites of eight eggs. Bake in a medium oven for 
about one hour. The cake is baked in a shallow pan double 
as long as its width and lightly smeared with butter. The 
frosting is made of the remaining egg whites very stifBly 

455 



45^ CaKes 

beaten, allowing fifteen teaspoons of powdered sugar 
and the juice of half a lemon. Beat the egg until very stiff, 
then add the sugar, beating in a teaspoon at a time, last 
the lemon juice, and then spread smoothly over the warm 
cake with a broad-bladed knife which is dipped occasionally 
in cold water. A soft-boiled frosting may be used if it is 
better liked. 

Sponge Cake 

Break one dozen eggs, without separating, into a large 
mixing bowl, add to them two cups of powdered sugar, set 
the bowl in a pan of boiling water, and keep near the front 
of the range so that the temperature may be kept at boiling 
point; beat with an egg beater for half an hour without 
stopping, removefromtherange, and stir in one cup of sifted 
flour and thegratedrindand juice of one lemon; pour in well 
buttered chimney pan, bake in a medium oven half an hour 
or less, testing with a broom splint. When done invert the 
pan and let cool before removing the cake. This also may 
be frosted. 

Solid Chocolate Cake 

One cup of sugar and half a cup of butter creamed 
together; add two eggs, a half a cup of milk, two teaspoons 
of baking powder, and flour enough to make a stiff batter. 
While beating this batter smooth put over the fire in a 
clean saucepan one cup of sugar, the yolks of two eggs, a 
half cup of Baker's chocolate, grated, and a half cup of 
milk. After it has boiled smooth for five minutes set it 
aside and sUghtly cool ; then stir it into the thick batter, 
beat and turn into a shallow buttered pan, and bake in a 
meditmi oven; or part of the dough may be put into the 
fancy shaped pans and that in the large pan cut into 
small squares, then iced or split, spread with marmalade, 
then cut into small jelly sandwiches and iced. 



CaKes 457 

Spanish Cake , 

Beat one pound of butter and one pound of sugar to a 
cream, add slowly the stiffly beaten yolks of eight eggs. 
Sift in one pound of flour, two teaspoons of baking powder, 
and a pinch of salt. Stir in one cup of milk, and when all is 
beaten smooth, fold in the eight egg whites beaten stiffly. 
Flavor with rose flavoring and bake in carefully greased 
dmnney pans. 

Fruit Cake 

Nine eggs, three quarters of a pound of butter, one potmd 
of sugar, one half cup of molasses, one pound of flour and 
one dessertspoon of vanilla. Beat the whites and yolks 
of the eggs separately. Grate in one nutmeg, add a teaspoon 
of ground cloves, a pinch of mace, one teaspoon of baking 
powder, one cup of milk, one pound of stoned raisins, one 
pound of well washed currants, and a half potmd of sliced 
citron. The mixture must be thoroughly stirred, and if it 
seems a little too thin, then add a small quantity of flour. 
Bake in well buttered tins for three hours, try with a broom 
splint, and invert the pans to cool the cake. 

Marble Cake 

For the light part of the cake use three cups of sugar, two 
thirds of a cup of butter, one cup of sour cream, four cups of 
flour, a teaspoon of baking powder, and the stiffly beaten 
whites of four eggs. For the dark part use two level cups 
of brown sugar, one cup of molasses, two thirds of a cup of 
butter, one cup of milk, four cups of flour, one teaspoon 
baking powder, and the yolks of six eggs; add one half 
tablespoon each of ground cloves, ginger, cinnamon, all- 
spice, and one grated nutmeg. Next add a few drops of 
lemon and bitter almond flavoring. Lightly butter a large 
shallow baking tin, pouring in the cake in alternate layers, 
dark and light, and bake them one hour, testing with broom 
splint. Use the remaining egg whites for frosting. 



458 

Sflver Cake 

Mix one cup of butter and two cups of sugar to a cream, 
then add the whites of four eggs well beaten and stir for 
twenty minutes, then add a cup of milk, two cups of sifted 
flour, and lastly one cup of flour mixed with one and a half 
teaspoonsof baking powder. Flavor with vanilla and bake. 

Angel Cake 

Whip the whites of twelve eggs to a firm stiff froth, sift in 
gradually one and a half cups of granulated sugar, then one 
cup of flour which has been sifted four times, and one level 
teaspoon of baking powder. Add also two teaspoons of 
vanilla flavoring and, after quickly mixing, turn the dough 
into an ungreased chimney pan and bake forty minutes in a 
steady, moderate oven. When baked, invert the pan over 
a plate, resting its edges on two small cups. As the cake 
cools, it will become detached from the pan. 

Honey Cake 

Mix half a cupfxil of sugar with a cupful of rich sour 
cream, sift into it two cups of flour, stir well, add half a tea- 
spoon of bicarbonate of soda and enough honey to flavor it 
well; beat aH together, pour in buttered tin, and bake from 
half to three quarters of an hour and serve warm. 

Almond Cake 

Blanch and pound one half a pound of sweet almonds to a 
paste; separate the whites from the yolks of six eggs, beat 
the yolks with the almonds, stir in eight tablespoons of sugar, 
grated rind of one lemon, three ounces of butter that has 
been beaten to a cream, mix well, and add the beaten whites 
of the eggs; put in a well buttered chimney pan and bake 
from one and a half to one and. three quarters of an hour; 
invert the pan on a cake plate and when it cools the cake will 
come out on the plate. 



CaKes 459 

Tea Cake 

Mix a quarter of a pound of flour with a quarter of a 
pound of arrowroot, add a small cupful of sugar, a quarter 
pound of butter, one ounce of candied orange peel cut fine, 
and two well beaten eggs; heat the mixture for ten minutes 
then bake in a buttered paper lined cake tin for one hour 
to one hour and a quarter. When cold it may be put away 
in a cake closet, and it is one of the best keeping cakes 
known. 

Queen Cakes 

Work a half pound of butter to a cream, sift in a pound 
of flour, one cupfxil of sugar, half a pound of currants, and 
mix well, whisk three eggs and add them to a teacup of 
cream, and the vanilla flavoring; add one teaspoon of bicar- 
bonate of soda, beat well, and put in small buttered pans 
and bake twenty minutes to a half hour. 

fl 

Washington Cake 

Rub together two cups of butter and three cups of sugar 
until light and creamy; add five well beaten eggs gradually, 
then one cup of milk and four cups of carefully sifted flour 
with two teaspoons of baking powder. Next add one cup 
of stoned raisins, a half cup of well- washed currants, a quar- 
ter of a cup of chopped citron, and one teaspoon each of 
extract of nutmeg and cinnamon. Beat into a smooth 
medium batter, then turn into a shallow square pan. Bake 
one hour and a half in a quick, steady oven. When cold, 
cover with a rich soft vanilla frosting. 

Blueberry Cake 

Beattwocupsof sugarandhalf a cup of butter to a cream, 
add the well beaten yolks of four eggs, half a teaspoon of 
salt, half a cup of milk, one teaspoon grated nutmeg, 
half a teaspoon of cinnamon, and two cups of flour, sifted. 



46o CaKes 

with two teaspoons of baking powder. Beat the mixture 
well, then add the beaten whites of the eggs. Have ready, 
washed and carefully picked over, one quart of blueberries; 
dust them lightly with flour, and fold them into the cake. 
Grease the cake pans (shallow ones are best), and pour in 
the cake about an inch thick; dust the top with sugar and 
bake slowly half an hour or more, if needed. 

Dutch Breadfruit Cake 

Beat the yolks of twelve eggs with one half pound of 
sugar, beating for half an hour; add a half potmd of sweet 
almonds that have been blanched and mashed fine, a half 
pound of black bread that has been grated and moistened 
in a little thin vanilla syrup; add also a teaspoon of cinna- 
mon, a half teaspoon of grated nutmeg, a quarter pound of 
finely chopped citron, and the beaten egg whites. Mix 
all very smooth and bake the dough in a slow oven. 

Jelly Sponge 

Bake a sponge cake in a deep square pan. When cold 
cut oflE the end and hollow out the inside like a box. The 
pieces that are cut out may be used at luncheon with sliced 
fruit. Make a good lemon or wine jeUy, and when it 
begins to cool add a bottle each (small size) of green and 
red maraschino cherries, turn into the cake, and place 
in a cool ice chamber to set. Have ready a pint of whipped 
cream, to which add a little sugar, a few drops of vanilla, 
and a teaspoon of finely chopped nuts. Heap this on 
top of the jelly. Garnish with a few strips of angelica 
and serve. 

One-Two-Three-Four Cake 

One cup of butter, two of sugar creamed together, add 
the yolks of four eggs and one cup of milk, and sift in 
three cups of flour, a half saltspoon of salt, and two level 
teaspoons of baking powder. Beat the cake thoroughly, 



CaKes 461 

add two teaspoons of vanilla, pour in well greased pans and 
bake. If desired a cup of seeded raisins, a half cup of 
chopped citron, and a half cup of well washed currants may 
be lightly floured and added to the batter. Bake for thirty- 
five minutes. 

Ohio Fruit Cake 

One pound of seeded raisins, one pound of washed cur- 
rants, one quarter of a pound of thinly sliced citron, one 
pound of brown sugar, one cup of butter, four well beaten 
eggs, one cup of sour milk, four cups of flour that has been 
sifted three times, one grated nutmeg, one tablespoon of 
cinnamon, and a dessertspoon of cloves; beat these ingredi- 
ents thoroughly into a smooth dough and lastly add one des- 
sertspoon of baking soda. Do not mix the soda with milk 
but sift it in dry. Turn the dough into a well buttered 
chimney pan and bake in a brisk oven until done, testing 
the cake with a straw. 

Old-Fashioned Plum Cake 

Take six pounds of currants, five pounds of flour, an 
ounce of cloves and mace, a little cinnamon, half an ounce 
of nutmegs, half a poundof pounded and blanched almonds, 
a half a pound of sugar, three quarters of a pound of sliced 
citron, lemon and orange peel, half a pint of sack, a little 
honey- water, a quart of ale-yeast, a quart of cream, a 
poundanda halfof buttermeltedand poured into the middle 
thereof; thenstrew a little flotu- thereon, and let it lie to rise; 
then work it well together and lay it before the fire to rise; 
workitupuntilitis very smooth; put it in a hoop, with a 
paper floured at the bottom. 

LATER CAKES 

Cuban Orange Layer Cake 

Rub together one cup of sugar, four tablespoons of 
butter, add a teaspoon of salt, one beaten egg, one cup of 



462 CaKes 

water and sift two level teaspoons of baking powder with 
two cups of flour into the mixture. Beat until smooth 
and bake in layer pans. For the filling boil one half cup of 
sugar in the juice of an orange. Dissolve one heaping tea- 
spoon of corn starch in two tablespoons of cold water, 
add the beaten yolk of one egg^ add this to the boiling syrup 
stirring constantly until thick. Remove from the fire and 
spread between the layers of cake. Frost with a good soft 
frosting if desired. 

Imported Yiennese ^' Chocolate Schnutten *' 

Cream together one half pound of butter and one half 
pound of sugar. Add the yolks of sixteen eggs, two and one 
half ounces of grated almonds, two and one half ounces of 
browned bread crumbs, two and one half ounces of sifted 
flour, the soft center of half a vaniUa bean one fourth cake of 
sweet chocolate, grated; and lastly, the whites of the 
sixteen eggs, stiffly beaten. Bake in shallow, lightly but- 
tered pans, in a moderate oven, for from twenty to twenty- 
five minutes, and when done, invert over plates to cool. 
When cold, cut into two-and-one-half-inch squares. Split 
the squares with a sharp knife into two layers, spread 
the under layer with the filling and the upper layer with the 
glazing. 

For the filling use one half pound of butter and one half 
cake of grated sweet chocolate, melted and beaten together 
till smooth and creamy. 

For the glazing, to one fourth cake of sweet chocolate, 
grated, add one half cup of sugar and one-fourth cup of 
water. Let this boil up well, then beat imtil cool and 
creamy and spread lightly over the cake. 

The quantity given in this recipe will make three ordi- 
nary eight-inch-square cakes. 

Lady Baltimore Cake 

Take one cup of butter and cream it with two cups of 
sugar, add three and a half cups of fiour sifted with two level 



CaKes 463 

teaspoons of baking powder, add also one cup of sweet 
milk, a teaspoon of rose water, and lastly fold in the stifBy 
beaten whites of six eggs. Bake in three layer cake tins. 
While baking prepare the following filling: 

Dissolve three cups of sugar in one cup of water, cooking 
until it spins a thread, then pour it over the stiffly beaten 
whites of three eggs, stirring constantly. Add to the filling 
one cup of chopped pecan nuts and six or eight figs cut in 
fine strips. 

Lay up the cake, when done, with the filling, then ice it on 
top and sides with white frosting. 

Cocoanut Cake 

Make the layers for the cake after the one-two-three- 
four cake recipe. One cup of butter, two of sugar, three of 
flour, and fotu* eggs. Of course the egg whites are beaten 
separately and folded in after the other ingredients are well 
beaten, and enough sweet milk added to make the dough the 
right consistency; a heaping teaspoon of baking powder 
is sifted in with the flour, and last of all two teaspoons of 
vanilla are added before turning the batter into the well 
buttered pans. The filling is made of fresh cocoanut. 
Grate the meat of one fresh sweet cocoanut. Melt one cup of 
sugar with a half cup of water and let it boil for four min- 
utes; haveready the beaten whites of two eggs, beat the sjrrup 
into the eggs very lightly, then add a cup and a half of the 
cocoanut, beat well, and lay up the cake, covering the top 
with the filling, then sprinkling all with some 01 the fresh 
cocoanut. 

Plain Layer Cake 

Put one cup of sugar, a half cup of butter, and the yolks 
of three eggs into the mixing bowl and beat thoroughly, 
adding two teaspoons of vanilla flavoring. Sift two and a 
half cups of flour with two and a half teaspoons of baking 
powder, and alternately sift into the mixture with a cup of 
water. Mix thoroughly and beat for five minutes ; then fold 



462 

water and sift two level teaspoons of baking powder with 
two cups of flour into the mixture. Beat until smooth 
and bake in layer pans. For the filling boil one half cup of 
sugar in the juice of an orange. Dissolve one heaping tea- 
spoon of com starch in two tablespoons of cold water, 
add the beaten yolk of one egg, add this to the boiling syrup 
stirring constantly until thick. Remove from the fire and 
spread between the layers of cake. Frost with a good soft 
frosting if desired. 

Imported Viennese ^^ Chocolate Schnutten " 

Cream together one half pound of butter and one half 
pound of sugar. Add the yolks of sixteen eggs, two and one 
half ounces of grated almonds, two and one half ounces of 
browned bread crumbs, two and one half ounces of sifted 
flour, the soft center of half a vanilla bean one fourth cake of 
sweet chocolate, grated; and lastly, the whites of the 
sixteen eggs, stiffly beaten. Bake in shallow, lightly but- 
tered pans, in a moderate oven, for from twenty to twenty- 
five minutes, and when done, invert over plates to cool. 
When cold, cut into two-and-one-half-inch squares. Split 
the squares with a sharp knife into two layers, spread 
the tmder layer with the filling and the upper layer with the 
glazing. 

For the filling use one half pound of butter and one half 
cake of grated sweet chocolate, melted and beaten together 
till smooth and creamy. 

For the glazing, to one fourth cake of sweet chocolate, 
grated, add one half cup of sugar and one-fourth cup of 
water. Let this boil up well, then beat tmtil cool and 
creamy and spread lightly over the cake. 

The quantity given in this recipe will make three ordi- 
nary eight-inch-square cakes. 

Lady Baltimore Cake 

Take one cup of butter and cream it with two cups of 
sugar, add three and a half cups of flour sifted with two level 



CaKes 463 

teaspoons of baking powder, add also one cup of sweet 
milk, a teaspoon of rose water, and lastly fold in the stiffly 
beaten whites of six eggs. Bake in three layer cake tins. 
While baking prepare the following filling: 

Dissolve three cups of sugar in one cup of water, cooking 
until it spins a thread, then pour it over the stiffly beaten 
whites of three eggs, stirring constantly. Add to the filling 
one cup of chopped pecan nuts and six or eight figs cut in 
fine strips. 

Lay up the cake, when done, with the filling, then ice it on 
top and sides with white frosting. 

Cocoanut Cake 

Make the layers for the cake after the one-two-three- 
four cake recipe. One cup of butter, two of sugar, three of 
flour, and four eggs. Of course the egg whites are beaten 
separately and folded in after the other ingredients are well 
beaten, and enough sweet milk added to make the dough the 
right consistency; a heaping teaspoon of baking powder 
is sifted in with the flour, and last of aU two teaspoons of 
vanilla are added before turning the batter into the well 
buttered pans. The filling is made of fresh cocoanut. 
Grate the meat of one fresh sweet cocoanut. Melt one cup of 
sugar with a half cup of water and let it boil for four min- 
utes; haveready the beaten whites of two eggs, beat the sjmip 
into the eggs very lightly, then add a cup and a half of the 
cocoanut, beat well, and lay up the cake, covering the top 
with the filling, then sprinkling aU with some 01 the fresh 
cocoanut. 

Plain Layer Cake 

Put one cup of sugar, a half cup of butter, and the yolks 
of three eggs into the mixing bowl and beat thoroughly, 
adding two teaspoons of vanilla flavoring. Sift two and a 
half cups of flour with two and a half teaspoons of baking 
powder, and alternately sift into the mixture with a cup of 
water. Mix thoroughly and beat for five minutes ; then fold 



4^ Cahea 

in the whites of the eggs that have been beaten very stiff. 
Bake in three layers, in a moderate oven, for half an hour 
or a little less. Any filling desired may be used to lay the 
cake up with. 

Plain Layer Cake Made with Oil 

Put onecupof sugar, theyolksof three eggs, and a half cup 
of any good vegetable oil into a mixing bowl and beat 
thoroughly; add one teaspoon of vanilla flavoring, sift in 
two and a half cups of flour with two and a half teaspoons of 
baking powder, adding it to the cake alternately with one 
cup of water. Beat all together for five minutes, then fold 
in the whites of the three eggs well beaten. Bake in three 
layers for twenty minutes. Lay up with any filling or icing 
desired. If a few drops of the oil are added to the soft frost- 
ing it will keep it in perfect condition for several days. 

Layer Cake, Soft Erosting 

In laying up a cake with soft frosting, each layer may be 
sprinkled with powdered pistachio nuts. To make it espe- 
cially pretty for a festival occasion, the top may be decora- 
ted with candied mint and rose leaves. 

CAKE FILLINGS AND ICINGS 

FOling for Chocolate Layer Cake 

One half cake chocolate grated and dissolved in a small 
cup of milk; let it come to boiling point, then add three 
quarters of a cup of sugar, a half teaspoon of butter, a half 
saltspoon of salt, and a teaspoon of vanilla flavoring. Boil 
for three minutes, when it is ready for use. 

Lemon Filling 

The grated rind and jtiice of one lemon, one cup of sugar, 
and one egg, beat thoroughly and boil in double boiler 
until cooked, from six to ten minutes. 



Cakes 465 

Fming for Minnehaha Cake 

A cup and a half of sugar and three quarters of a cup of 
water, cook until it spins a thread; turn onto a cold plate, 
beat for three minutes, then add the stifiSy beaten whites of 
two eggs, a half a cup of chopped walnuts, a half a cup 
of finely chopped raisins, one finely chopped strip of candied 
lemon peel, and a teaspoon of vanilla flavoring. Beatf 
thoroughly and lay up the cake. 

Marshmallow Fflling 

The marshmallow whip comes ready prepared to lay up 
the cake with and is much easier to use than the old way of 
making this troublesome filling. The whip may be flavored 
with maple or any other flavoring liked which lessens 
its rather cloying sweetness. 

Almond Icing 

Equal quantity of groundalmondsandidng sugar, — ^about 
one half pound of each, — sufficient yolk of egg to make into 
a stiff paste, and work well together. The yolks should 
be beaten with a wooden spoon, the paste worked with the 
hand, kept very smooth and not too soft. Straighten the 
top of the cake, brush it over with white of egg, and then put 
on the icing, whichshouldbemadethe same size as the cake. 
Decorate with burnt almonds. 

Water Icing 

Use two cups of confectioner's sugar, adding the grated 
rind of one lemon, a tablespoon of lemon juice, and two 
tablespoons of boiling water; stir until smooth, then spread 
upon the cake. 

Royal Icing 

Take one cup of icing sugar, the stiffly beaten white of 
an egg, and a teaspoon of lemon juice, work ^ell together 
30 



466 

with a wooden spoon. Spread with a knife on as many 
layers as are required. This frosting takes a day to dry. 
It may be decorated with any sort of nuts or other decora- 
tions, or colored with any of the delicate harmless color- 
ings. 

Maple Sugar Idng 

Boil a half potmd of broken maple sugar with a quarter of 
a cup of water imtildissolvedand thick enough to rope when 
dropped from the spoon. Pour the syrup gradually over 
the whipped white of two eggs and beat until thick enough 
to spread. 

Boiled Idng 

Boil one cup of granulated sugar with a haU a cup of 
water until it ropes from the spoon; pour gradually over 
the stiffly beaten whites of two eggs, beat for five minutes, 
add one teaspoon of vanilla flavoring, and use at once. 

Mocha FOling 

Put into a saucepan the yolks of eight eggs and a half a 
pound of sugar, beat well together, then add a half pint of 
very strong coffee and a half pint of boiling milk. Set the 
saucepan over the fire and stir continually with a small 
whip as the liquid slowly comes to boiling point. Do not 
allow it to boil, but remove it from the fire and let it stand 
until cold. Put eight tablespoons of butter in a hot sauce- 
pan and soften it sufiiciently to be able to work it to a 
cream; when it is creamed pour the coffee mixture into it, 
beating all well together vigorously with a whip, when it will 
be ready to use. 

SMALL CAKES 
Peanut Cookies 

Mix two tablespoons of butter with a quarter of a cup of 
sugar, add one beaten egg, one half cup of flour sifted with a 



CaKes 4^7 

half teaspoon of baking powder, two tablespoons of milk, 
one third teaspoon of salt, one half cup of chopped peanuts, 
one teaspoon of vanilla, and a grating of nutmeg. Mix all 
carefully together, then drop from the spoon onto an 
unbuttered tin, leaving more than an inch between the 
cookies. 

^ Jumbles 

One cup of butter, one pint of flour, one and a quarter 
cups of powdered sugar, two tablespoons of sherry, one tea- 
spoon of vanilla, and three eggs. Beat the butter to a 
cream, add the sugar gradually, beating until very light; 
beat the eggs together, add to the butter and sugar, add 
sherry and vanilla and last the sifted flour. Beat well and 
drop by the teaspoon on a baking pan; bake in a moderate 
oven until the edges are a delicate brown. 

Up-Side-Downie Cakes 

Mix one cup of sugar with one and a half cups of sifted 
flour, one heaping teaspoon of baking powder, the whites 
of two eggs, a half cup of melted butter, and a half a cup 
of sweet cream. Beat all in a mixing bowl for Ave minutes, 
adding a teaspoon of vanilla. Bake in buttered mufiin 
pans. 

Nut Wafers 

Take one half pound of brown sugar and mix with it a 
half pound of chopped pecan nuts, two level tablespoons of 
flour, a half teaspoon of baking powder, a third teaspoon of 
salt, two beaten eggs, a little grated nutmeg, and a teaspoon 
of vanilla flavoring. Mix thoroughly and drop by small 
spoonfuls on buttered tins ; bake in a quick oven. 

Puff Balls 

Add to three beaten eggs one cup of sugar, a pint of milk, 
a half teaspoon of salt, one teaspoon of vanilla, and two 



468 

heaping teaspoons of baking powder sifted with two cups 
of flour. Beat thoroughly, adding a little more flour to make 
a thick batter which will hold the spoon upright. Drop 
by small spoonfuls into hot fat and fry a delicate brown. 
When done drain, dust with powdered sugar, and when 
cold pack away in a stone crock to use as needed. 

Midgets 

To three eggs, one cup of butter, and one and a half cups 
of sugar mixed together smoothly, add one cup of seeded 
and chopped raisins, a little finely chopped citron, a tea- 
spoon each of cloves, allspice, and cinnamon, and sufiicient 
flour to make them firm enough to roll. Cut in tiny odd 
shapes with fancy cookie cutter and bake. These may be 
frosted with pistachio frosting and dusted with powdered 
walnuts. 

Walnut Kisses 

Beat the whites of six eggs stiff; add one pound of finely 
sifted powdered sugar, two tablespoons of flour, and one 
pound of chopped walnut meats. Add a little vanilla 
flavoring and mix all well together. Drop in teaspoons on 
a well buttered pan and bake in a moderate oven. 

Victoria Sandwiches 

Beat to a cream the yolks of four eggs and add their 
weight in sugar, butter, and flour; when creamy add the 
well beaten whites of the eggs; butter a shallow baking 
pan, and pour in the batter. Bake in a moderate oven for 
twenty minutes. Let cool, then spread one half of the cake 
with preserves, lay the other half over it, and cut into small 
sandwiches. 

Cocoanut Drops 

Two cups of freshly grated cocoanut, one cup of sugar, 
one tablespoon of flour, the stiffly beaten white of one 



CaKes 469 

^gg- Mix all together, adding a half teaspoon of vanilla; 
drop by the spoonful on buttered paper, sift a little sugar 
over them, and bake fifteen minutes in a slow oven. 

JoUy Boys 

Sift carefuUy two and a half heaping tablespoons of 
yellow commeal, two heaping tablespoons of flour, one 
tablespoon of sugar, a saltspoon of salt, and a teaspoon of 
baking powder; add one beaten egg to the mixture and 
then enough sweet milk to make a drop batter; stir in quick- 
ly one teaspoon of melted butter, beat well, and drop by 
teaspoons in hot fat. When they are a delicate brown serve 
in a napkin. 

Macaroons 

Take one half pound of almond paste, nine ounces of 
powdered sugar, the stiffly beaten whites of three eggs, 
a half teaspoon of vanilla, and one tablespoon of sifted flour; 
mix all thoroughly and drop onto a clean, ungreased bail- 
ing pan. Bake a delicate brown. 

Snippi Doodles 

Cream together one cup of sugar and a tablespoon of but- 
ter, then add one cup of flour, a teaspoon of baking powder, 
and a teaspoon of ground cinnamon; mix well and add one 
beaten egg and half a cup of milk. Spread very thin on a 
buttered baking sheet. When nearly done sprinkle the 
surface with sugar and when brown remove from the oven, 
cut into squares, and remove quickly with a knife. These 
are thin crisp cookies and unusually good. 

Fruit Pi 



Rub through a sieve one pint of flour, a tablespoon of 
sugar, half saltspoon of salt, and two teaspoons of baking 
powder. Into this rub two generous tablespoons of butter 



470 CaKea 

and mix thoroughly with a half pint of milk. Flour the 
board and roll the dough out into a large square half an inch 
in thickness, spread a heaping tablespoon of soft butter on 
top of this, and sift over it a cup of sugar and a cup of well 
washed currants; grate a little nutmeg over the top. Cut 
and fold back the points to form a pinwheel, just as kinder- 
garten children do, and bake on a well greased baking tin 
twelve to fifteen minutes in a brisk oven« 

Cookies 

Three quarters of a cup of butter and a quarter of a cup 
of lard, two cups of sugar and five cups of flour rubbed well 
together, a teaspoon of baking powder, two eggs, and a half 
cup of milk. Mix all well, roll thin, and bake quickly. 

Austrian Apple Cake 

To one cup of sugar add a quarter of a cup of butter and 
the yolks of three eggs, beat to a cream, then add one 
and a half cups of flour, two teaspoons of baking powder, 
and a cup of milk. Mix thoroughly, then add the stiffly 
beaten whites of the eggs. Pour into a shallow, greased 
pan and cover the top with very thinly sliced and quartered 
apples, sprinkling all with cinnamon and sugar mixed to- 
gether. 

Apple Cheesecakes 

Pare, core, and boil sufficient apples to make a half pound 
when cooked; add to this pulp a quarter pound of sugar, a 
quarter pound of melted butter, four eggs, leaving out the 
whites of two, and the rind and juice of one lemon. Stir 
the mixture well, line patty pans with puff paste and fill 
them, and bake about twenty minutes. 

For some of the little cakes, pound cake, silver cake, 
sponge cake, and solid chocolate cake dough is used, var}ring 
them with different tinted fancy frostings garnished with 



CaKes 471 

• 

split blanched almonds, chopped almonds, almonds rolled 
in jelly, almonds wrapped in seeded half raisins, strips of 
angelica, sweet seeds, chopped currants, preserved cherries, 
candied pineapple, grated lemon peel, tiny silvered candied 
hearts, candy mites, and candied mint, violet, and rose 
leaves. These various garnishes are pressed into the frost- 
ing while it is still soft, then as it hardens they stiffen into 
place and are not easily dislodged. 

The colorings used are the French Breton make, purely 
vegetable and harmless. Green, pink, violet, and yellow 
will be found quite satisfactory, and with chocolate and 
vanilla the cook has six different color combinations. 

The '^ Doed-Eoecks '' of Dutch Origin 

Weird funeral souvenirs of Dutch origin were called 
'* Doed-Koecks " or ** dead cakes. " With a small bottle of 
wine and a pair of gloves, two of these were sent by way of 
invitation to relatives and friends whom one wanted to 
attend the funeral. 

The original recipe for these cakes, which is said to be 
authentic, called for fourteen pounds of flour, six pounds of 
sugar, five pounds of butter, one quart of water, two tea- 
spoons of pearl ash, two tablespoons of salt, and one otmce 
of caraway seed. These were baked in four-inch squares, 
then frosted and marked with the initials of the "departed 
friend. " Sometimes they were eaten at the funeral dixmer, 
but usually they were taken away, like wedding cakes, as 
souvenirs. 

Many bakers made a specialty of "funeral cookery, *' one 
baker in Philadelphia advertising the specialty as recently 
as 1748. 

Simnel Cake for Lent 

The simnel cake is sacred ta mid-Lent Sunday, as is the 
pancake to Shrove Tuesday and the hot cross bun to Good 



A72 Cakes 

Friday. For the devout people who keep Lent in the 
orthodox way this famous old recipe may be of interest. 

Take one pound of butter, three quarters of a pound of 
sugar, whites of six eggs beaten stiff, six yolks beaten in a 
little water, one and a half pounds of flour, currants, citron, 
grated peel, chopped nuts, spices and two ounces of orange 
sugar, a wineglass of brandy, and mix all together well. 
Place in a well floured doth, plunge into boiling water, 
and boil three hours. Remove doth and place on a well 
buttered tin, brush over with e,gg, and bake in a slow oven 
until the crust is hard and a Hght brown. 

DOUGHNUTS 

Giandmofher's Crullers 

Two cups of sugar, one cup of sweet milk, three eggs, a 
liunp of butter the size of a walnut, a grating of nutmeg, 
one rotmd teaspoon of cream tartar, and three quarters 
of a teaspoon of soda. Knead quite. soft and roll the usual 
thickness, cook in deep fat, and sprinkle with powdered 
sugar. When cold pack away in a stone crock. 

Crullers 

Two cups of sugar, one cup of sweet milk, three eggs, 
teaspoon of butter, grating of nutmeg, a round teaspoon of 
cream of tartar, three quarters of a teaspoon of soda; 
mix, knead quite soft, roll out to half-inch thickness, cut, 
and drop in deep, hot fat; when done dust lightly with pow- 
dered sugar. 

Raised Jelly Doughnuts 

Make a sponge of one pint of milk, three quarters of a cup 
of butter, three quarters of a yeast cake dissolved in a cup of 
cold water; sift in enough flour to make a batter that can be 
stirred with a spoon, and add three quarters of a cup of 
sugar. When this has risen, say four or five hours, add 



Cakes 473 

three cups of sugar, four eggs, a grating of nutmeg, a tea- 
spoon of vanilla flavoring; add a little flour if necessary, 
ttun onto the floured board, roll, and cut into rounds. 
Let them rise from twenty minutes to half an hour, setting 
the board where it is a little warm; fry in hot fat; when 
cool enough to handle, make a little opening at the side 
with a sharp knife and tuck in a teaspoon of currant, black- 
berry, or quince jeUy. Roll in powdered sugar and stow 
away in a crock. 

Not Doughnuts 

Rub one cup of granulated sugar with two tablespoons of 
melted butter, when smooth add three well beaten eggs, two 
cups of milk, a teaspoon of salt, a teaspoon of vanilla, and 
sift in five cups of flour to which two heaping teaspoons 
of baking powder have been added. When all is mixed stir 
in a cupful of chopped nuts, of any kind liked, roll out, cut, 
and fry in deep lard. 

MOLASSES DAmHES 
Gingerbread 

A pound and a half of flour takes up one pound of treacle, 
almost as much sugar, an ounce of ground ginger, two ounces 
caraway, four ounces citron and candied lemon peel, the 
yolks of four eggs; cut your sweetmeats, mix all, and bake 
in large plates. A recipe popular in 1724. 

Honeycomb Gingerbread 

Mix together a heaping cup of flour, a half pound of 
brown sugar, a quarter pound of soft butter, one dessert- 
spoon of allspice, and two dessertspoons of ground ginger. 
Add the grated peel of half a lemon and the whole of the 
juice. Mix the ingredients thoroughly, then pour in a cup 



474 CaKes 

of New Orleans molasses; beat all well, then spread thinly on 
shallow buttered pans. Bake in rather a slow oven and 
watch carefully. When done, remove from the oven and, 
with a sharp knife, cut into four-inch squares, rolling each 
piece around the fingers as it is raised from the pan. 

Soft Molasses Cookies 

Put one cup of molasses into a mixing bowl, then sift in 
one tablespoon of ground ginger, two tablespoons of warm 
milk, one third of a cup of warm soft butter, one teaspoon 
of baking soda, and enough fiour to make a soft dough, just 
firm enough to roll out half an inch thick. Cut with a 
round or fancy cutter and bake in a brisk oven. 

Maple Ginger Cake 

Mix a half cup of butter with a cup of sugar, add a half 
cup of milk, two beaten eggs, one cup of New Orleans 
molasses, one tablespoon of ground ginger, a teaspoon of 
allspice, one and a half teaspoons of baking powder, and two 
cups of fiour. Mix thoroughly and bake in square, shallow 
pans. When done, lay the cakes up with a well made 
maple icing between the layers. If the cake layer is too 
thick, it may be easily split after it is slightly cool. Half 
candied cherries may be set into the icing on top, by way of 
decoration. 

Spice Cakes 

Beat the yolks of three eggs with one cup of molasses, add 
a half cup of butter, a half cup of milk, three cups of fiour, a 
pinch of salt, two teaspoons of baking powder, a dessert- 
spoon of vanilla, and a teaspoon each of ciimamon, cloves, 
and allspice, with a generous grating of nutmeg. Bake in 
fancy patty pans and frost with chocolate, marshmallow, 
or pistachio icing. If desired, a teaspoon of ground ginger 
may be added to the cakes, though this is a matter of taste. 



CaKes 475 

Fanners' Ftuit Cake 

Take one cup of dried apples, chop them, and soak them 
overnight. In the morning let them simmer for two hotirs 
in a cup of New Orleans molasses, then set aside to get 
slightly cool. Take one cup of sugar, a third of a cup of 
butter, a half cup of sour milk in which a teaspoon of bak- 
ing soda has been dissolved, two teaspoons of ground cinna- 
mon and one of cloves, two beaten eggs, and two cups 
of finely sifted flour. Mix all well and add the apple and 
molasses. Bake in well buttered square pans. 



Honey and Sour Milk Gt 

Blend together one cup of honey, a half a cup of butter, 
heat, and just before they reach boiHng point, remove from 
fire. Allow the mixture to cool slightly, then add a half a 
cup of sour milk, two well beaten eggs, a half teaspoon of 
cinnamon, the same of ginger and salt, and one and three 
quarters teaspoons of soda. Bake in a shallow buttered 
pan and when cool, ice thinly. 

Mexican Cake 

Turn one cup of molasses into a mixing bowl with two 
tablespoons of melted butter, one cup of boiling water, one 
teaspoon of baking soda dissolved in a little boiling water, 
one heaping tablespoon of ground ginger, and three cups of 
sifted flour. Turn into buttered layer cake pans and bake. 
Have ready, when the cakes are done, a lemon filling made 
after this recipe: two cups of sugar, the grated rind of 
two lemons and the strained juice; two tablespoons of flotu: 
mixed with cold water, one tablespoon of melted butter, 
one cup of boiling water. After thoroughly mixing, add 
the beaten whites of two eggs and cook all together in 
a double boiler until thickened. Let cool slightly before 
la3dng up the cake, then frost the top with a soft frosting 



47^ CaKes 

flavored with lemon, and decorate the top of the cake with 
candied kumquats, cut in halves or slices. 

Crisp Ginger Snaps 

Boil together one cup of molasses, two tablespoons of 
lard, one tablespoon ground ginger, one teaspoon soda, a 
pinch of salt; when blended add enough flour to roll out 
thin, cut in fancy shapes, and bake quickly. 

Gingerbread 

To make gingerbread take one cupful of butter, one cup- 
ful of brown sugar, one cup of sour cream, one cup of mo- 
lasses, four eggs, four cups of flour, a teaspoon of salt, two 
teaspoons of yellow ginger, and one teaspoon of soda 
dissolved in warm water. Mix thoroughly and bake in 
shallow, well buttered tins. 



HOME-MADE ICE CREAMS 

With the many ice cream freezers that there are now 
on the market, including the electric, the vacuum, and the 
so-called five-minute freezers, cream making at home with 
reliable recipes is an easy matter. 

A canvas bag with a wooden mallet comes especially for 
the preparing of the ice packing, while the rock salt is also 
conveniently bagged. One rule that has to be followed 
in caring for all freezers is that they must be kept absolutely 
clean, being thoroughly washed and dried after using in the 
sun or over a stove grating if they are of metal, so there is 
no possibility of rusting or corroding in any of their parts. 

The propelling apparatus of these new freezers require the 
same care that one would give any good machine, keeping 
them clean and properly oiled to do the most effective work. 

All ingredients for successful cream making must be of the 
very best quality; fresh eggs, sweet milk and creatn, ripe 
but firm fruit carefully washed, the best cordials or liquors, 
fine grated sugar, the best syrups and flavorings — ^they only 
will give the best results. 

Remember in flavoring cream that the freezing flattens it, 
so a little more is needed than one would use in a custard or 
in a dish that is simply to be chiQed, to give it the right 
flavor. 

If the cream is to be molded or simply left to ripen, and 
the dasher has to be removed for the purpose, great care 
must be taken in opening the freezer lest any salt should 
get in, in fact it is always safer to cover the top of the 
freezer with a square of asbestos paper thus insuring safety 
for the contents before putting on tiie cover. 

477 



47^ Home-made Ice Creams 

After the cream has been molded in square tins or fancy 
shapes and when it is time to be served, invert the mold 
over the dish; if the cream cUngs persistently to the mold, 
wring a heavy clean doth out of hot water and bind it 
around the mold for a couple of minutes; then the cream 
will slip out quite easily; but do not allow the doth to 
remain long enough to mdt the cream perceptibly. 

In cooking any of the redpes containing milk, exquisite 
care must be taken that not the slightest scorching shotdd 
occur to taint the mixture. For this reason it is safer to use 
an enamd or porcelain lined double boiler for this purpose, 
keeping it for this use only if many creams are made. 

For frozen fruits whipped cream is best to serve so as not 
to have any conflicting flavors. Fresh strawberries dipped 
in powdered sugar and placed around the edge of the cream 
on a dish make a very good arrangement, decorative and 
good to eat as well. 

Sherbets and mousses, ices and frozen custards are usu- 
ally served plain, as sauce would make them too thin. 
Small cakes, however, are offered with them. 

Harmless coloring fluids add much to decorative color 
schemes for extra occasions if properly used. 

It is said that Dolly Madison was the first to introduce 
the custom of serving ice cream at the White House 
functions. 

Vanilla Cream to Use with a Sauce 

A quart and a pint of rich cream and one pint of rich milk 
with one pound of sugar and a dessert spoon of the best 
vanilla flavoring, should be carefully mixed and turned into 
the freezer and frozen hard. When ready to serve the fol- 
lowing sauce is turned over it: Wash, hull, and halve a 
quart of fresh, ripe strawberries. Take a cup and a half 
of sugar, turn into it a half cup of boiling water and when 
melted and hot turn over the berries; let them stand in a 
warm place or in the sun, stirring every few minutes for two 
hours, then set away to chiU until needed. 



Home-made Ice Creams 479 

Chocolate Ice Cream 

~ Dissolve six ounces of grated chocolate in a small quantity 
of milk and work to a smooth paste ; add three pints of cream, 
twelve ounces of sugar, and four whole eggs. Place all in a 
double boiler and stir until it begins to thicken, then strain 
through a sieve and place in the freezer. A teaspoon of 
vanilla flavoring will help bring out the flavor of the choco- 
late. 

Biscuit GIac6 

Mix with one and a half pints of cream twelve ounces of 
sugar, the yolks of eight eggs, and two teaspoons of vanilla. 
Turn into a double boiler and cook until it begins to thicken, 
strain through a sieve into the freezer, freeze ten minutes, 
then open and add the whites of two eggs beaten stiff with a 
little powdered sugar and a quarter of a potmd of stale maca- 
roons that have been rolled into crumbs, two more tea- 
spoons of vanilla, re-cover, and finish freezing. A gill of 
sherry may be added at this time, but it is not necessary. 

Tutti Ftutti 

Add to one pint of milk two cups of sugar, two eggs, a 
tablespoon of sifted flour, two tablespoons of gelatine powder 
soaked in a little cold water, mix thoroughly, and let them 
come to a boil. Cook until they reach the right consistency, 
between fifteen and twenty minutes, then add the gelatine; 
when smooth and cool, add one quart of cream, put in the 
freezer, freeze ten minutes, then add the fruit, a cup of can- 
died cherries, a little grated pineapple, six chopped candied 
marrons, a little angelica, a dozen seeded and finely chop- 
ped raisins and a few powdered pistachio nuts, one wineglass 
of apricot cordial; then cover the freezer again and finish 
freezing. 

le Ice Cream 



Grate or chop very fine one large sugarloaf pineapple, add 
to it two and a half cups of sugar, let stand a couple of hours. 



48o Home-made Ice Creams 

stirring every once in awhile, then strain and squeeze 
through a jelly bag, setting aside two heaping tablespoons 
of the . fruit first to add to the cream. Add a quart of 
cream to the liquid and one pint of rich milk, pour into the 
freezer and freeze ten minutes, then add the pineapple^ 
re-cover, and finish freezing. 

French Frozen Custaid 

Make a rich custard with the yolks of six eggs, a quart of 
rich milk, pinch of salt, three quarters of a cup of sugar, and 
boil in double boiler until the custard is the right consist- 
ency. Let it cool, then add a pint of heavy cream, the 
whites of four of the eggs beaten until stiff with three 
tablespoons of powdered sugar, and add them to the cus- 
tard with a tablespoon of the best vanilla flavoring. Stir 
all into the freezer and freeze. This will make three pints 
of cream, or enough to serve ten people with one portion 
each. 

Frozen Custard 

Dissolve two teaspoons of powdered gelatine in two cups of 
milk; beat three tablespoons of sugar with the yolks of two 
eggs until light, then add it slowly to the milk. Cook in 
a double boiler, stirring but • one way, until it thickens. 
Remove from the fire and cool; when cold fold in the stiffly 
beaten whites of the eggs, a tablespoon of vanilla, and pour 
into the freezer and freeze. Serve with macaroons, lady- 
fingers, or white cake. 

Caramel Ice Cream 

Melt one cup of white sugar in an iron frying pan. Boil 
one quart of milk with a stick of cinnamon and pour it over 
the beaten yolks of six eggs, then add the caramel, and, 
when cool, turn the mixture into the freezer, adding the 
beaten egg whites and a teaspoon of vanilla. Freeze 
and let stand two hours to ripen before using. Whipped 



Home-macie Ice Creams 4^1 

cream is good served over this cream, or a vanilla syrup 
with chopped walnuts. 

Blown Bread Ice Cream 

Pour a pint of boiling milk over three ounces of brown 
bread crumbs, add five ounces of sugar, a teaspoon of vanilla, 
and one and a half tablespoons of gelatine dissolved in a 
Uttle water. Stir tmtil all is dissolved ; when cool add a half 
pint of cream and freeze. A half wineglass of good brandy 
may be added, if desired, to heighten the flavoring. 

Ginger Ice Cream 

Dissolve one teaspoon of powdered gelatine in a cup of hot 
water; add a tablespoon of lemon juice, three ounces of 
sugar, a cup of ginger syrup drained from a small jar of 
preserved ginger, and fold in two cups of heavy cream. 
Put in the freezer and, when partly frozen, add two sprays 
of the ginger root, which must be chopped fine. 

Raspberry Ice Cream 

Dissolve one tablespoon of powdered gelatine in a cupful 
of milk, add two cups of sugar and four cups of cream; 
stir until all is melted, then strain and add one quart of ripe 
red raspberries that have been carefully washed. Pour into 
a freezer and freeze hard. This will be enough for ten 
people. 

Baked Ice Cream 

Have the cream to be baked frozen very hard and cut into 
blocks the size of individual service. Have the whites of 
eggs beaten very stiff with powdered sugar and a dash of 
brandy, spread the meringue quickly over the blocks placed 
on a baking sheet and thrust them into the hot oven for a 
minute or two to brown the meringue, but watch that it 
does not bum as that ruins them. Serve quickly with 
.macaroons. 

3Z 



4^2 Home-madle Ice Creams 

Ftozen Peaches 

Frozen peaches may be made rich or plain, so one may 
choose from the following two recipes the one that seems 
best: 

Plain recipe — ^Take enough peaches to make one quart 
when stoned, pared, and chopped fine. Add two cups of 
sugar and let stand for. one hour, then add a quart of milk 
and freeze. Serve with sponge cake or lady fingers. 

Rich recipe — Take enough ripe sweet peaches to make 
a full quart after paring, stoning, and cutting into small 
pieces. Add to them a pint of sugar and let stand an hour, 
then add a quart of cream, place in the freezer and freeze 
ten nunutes, then open and add the stifiSy beaten whites of 
two eggs that have been beaten with three dessertspoons of 
powdered sugar and a teaspoon of rose flavoring. Close the 
freezer and continue tmtil the cream is hard, then allow it 
to ripen for two hours. Serve with it silver cake or old- 
fashioned pound cake with a soft frosting. 

Prozen Strawberries 

Wash two quarts of fresh strawberries, cut them in 
pieces, sugar well, and let stand in a fairly warm place for a 
couple of hours. Add a quart of sweet cream and the 
beaten whites of two eggs and freeze. Serve either in 
glasses or in parfait cups. 

« 

Frozen Date Custard 

Place a pint of rich milk in a double boiler and when it is 
hot stir in a pinch of salt, three eggs, well beaten, with 
three quarters of a cup of sugar. Cook constantly, stirring 
until the custard is well thickened, remove, and when cold 
fold in a half pint of whipped cream and a teaspoon of 
vanilla, potu* into freezer and freeze for six minutes, then 
remove the cover and put in a cupful of chopped seeded 
dates and a half cup of nun; freeze and serve with a cordial 



Home-made Ice Creams 4^3 

sauce. Take one cup of sugar and melt in a quarter cup of 
boiling water; aUow it to boil four minutes. When cold 
add a gill of apricot cordial, pouring a little over the cus- 
tard. 

Frozen Cherries 

Take four cups of stoned ripe cherries, add two and a 
half cups of sugar, and let stand an hotir ; then add a pint of 
rich milk, the beaten whites of two eggs, and a pint of cream. 
Freeze and serve with silver cake. 

Peach Melba 

Select a large ripe peach for each person to be served. 
Dip each peach in boiling water to remove the skin. Place 
a large spoonful of vanilla ice cream on a square of sponge 
cake, lay the peach upon it, turn over it some raspberry 
syrup, and sprinkle crumbed macaroons on top. Have all 
ingredients ready, as the serving must be done before the 
cream melts. 

Apricot Cream 

Add to a half pound of apricot jam a teaspoon of almond 
flavoring, juice of one lemon, and a glass of Noyeau cordial. 
Mix thoroughly, add one pint of cream, and freeze. 

Frozen Plttm Padding 

Dissolve a half ounce of powdered gelatine in four table- 
spoons of hot water. Cook one cup of sugar in one cup 
of water tmtil it threads from the spoon. Beat the yolks of 
three eggs, add them to the syrup, and beat until cool; then 
add the melted gelatine and fold in two cups of whipped 
cream. When all is nuxed, add a half cup of seeded raisins, 
a cup of blanched and chopped abnonds, a half pound of 
mixed candied fruits, a teaspoon of vanilla, and two drops of 



484 Hoine-*ina<le Ice Creams 

oil of cloves; turn all into the freezer. When nearly frozen, 
add the stiffly beaten whites of the three eggs that have been 
beaten with a little powdered sugar, and two teaspoons of 
orange flower water. When ready to serve, unmold 
and serve in slices with any good plum-pudding sauce. 

Ftozen Apricots 

Pare and cut up enough apricots to equal a quart of solid 
fruit; add two cups of granulated sugar and a half a cup of 
pineapple juice squeezed from the fresh fruit. Let stand 
four hoTirs; then add a pint of heavy cream and the stiffly 
beaten whites of two fresh eggs. Put into the freezer and 
when half frozen add a wineglass of apricot brandy. 

Nesselrode Padding 

Blanch forty chestnuts in boiling water, after peeling 
them and removing their husks ; then potmd them in a mortar 
tuitil they are perfectly smooth, adding a few spoonfuls of 
vanilla S3rrup. Rub them through a sieve and mix them in 
a basin with a pint of the vanilla syrup, one pint of cream, 
and the yolks of twelve eggs. Set this mixture over a slow fire, 
without stopping the stirring, until it reaches boiling point. 
Remove from the fire and pass through a sieve. When 
cold, put it in the freezer, adding a tablespoon of ginger 
syrup and two teaspoons of vanilla flavoring. When the 
mixture begins to set, open the freezer and add one ounce 
of candied citron chopped fine, two ounces of carefully 
washed currants, two ounces of stoned raisins, two oimces of 
chopped candied cherries, and one ounce of chopped candied 
pineapple. Cut fine fotu* marron glacds and add them 
also to the mixture, with a pint of whipped cream and the 
whites of three eggs beaten very stiS with a little vanilla 
syrup. Pack individual pudding molds with the mixture. 
Have whipped cream, well drained and chilled, to be served 
with them. 



Home-mcicle Ice Creams 485 

French Frozen Milk Punch 

Take one quart of milk and add to it two cups of sugar, 
let boil up, add a grating of nutmeg, and let cool. When cold 
put into the freezer, adding three cups of whipped cream, 
a teaspoon of vanilla, and a half cup of rum. Freeze and 
when ahnost frozen open again and add a half cup of French 
brandy. Let stand an hour to ripen before using. 

SAUCES TO SERVE WITH ICE CREAM 

Ice cream in days gone by used to be quite sufficient 
unto itself, but nowadays it must have a sauce of some sort 
to add to its richness or some unusual sweetmeat served 
with it, so that it is quite as complicated as any other des- 
sert. There are, however, quite a number of the fruit 
sauces put up in glass that may be purchased. These in- 
clude ptir^e of apricots, strawberries, raspberries, pears, red 
currants, peaches, and plums. Richly preserved fruits and 
those preserved whole are very popular served beside the 
creams. 

Homemade sauces are varied and may be used hot or 
cold. One is made of strained honey, heated, and has 
blanched and chopped hazel nuts added. Another tasteful 
one is maple syrup with chopped walnuts. Marshmallow 
syrup with pecan nuts, vanilla syrup with pistachio nuts, 
chocolate sauce and whipped cream with grated pineapple 
are also well known and liked. 

Fresh fruit jellies are another favorite sweet to serve 
with cream. The jeUy is occasionally molded and arranged 
between bricks of cream and when the whole is served it is 
cut across so as to leave it like a layer cake in effect. 

Sauce *' Honey Love '' 

This sauce is to use with French vanilla cream. Chop 
fine a half cup of English walnuts, a thin strip of angelica, 
six seeded raisins, four maraschino cherries; add a cup of 



4^6 Home-made Ice Creams 

strained honey, to which the juice of half a lemon has been 
added. A tablespoon of sherry or of rum added is an 
improvement, but not a necessity. Pour the mixture over 
the ice cream, heap a tablespoon of whipped cream on top 
and decorate with a cherry. 

Green Almond Sauce for Ice Cream 

In making this sauce for the ice cream, get a jar of green 
almonds, drain, and slice them through the kernel, which is 
soft when the nut is green, then add as much of the liquor in 
which they were preserved as is needed. Pour over each 
portion of ice cream, then put a spoonftd of whipped cream 
on the top and one whole almond in the center by way of 
a garnish. 

Strawberry Sauce 

« 

For the strawberry sauce to go with the pistachio cream 
use a pint of small, sweet strawberries chopped fine. Cover 
with sugar and allow them to stand in a warm place tmtil 
the sugar is thoroughly melted, then put the mixture 
through a pur^ sieve. Add to it large berries cut in quar- 
ters and chill before serving with the cream. 

Meringue and Whipped Cream Sauce 

Beat the whites of four eggs very stifif , adding three table- 
spoons of powdered sugar and a teaspoon of vanilla to 
them. Turn out a quart of vanilla ice cream frozen very 
hard, cover in with the mdringue thickly, and put it 
into a very hot oven until the meringue is lightly browned, 
or, if the oven is not hot enough to do it quickly, then 
drop the eggs in spoonfuls on a lightly buttered paper, 
brown in the oven, and place them over the ice cream. 
Have ready one pint of whipped cream, to which has been 
added two tablespoons of finely chopped pecan nuts and 
two teaspoons of Anisette cordial, and put a spoonful on 
each portion. 



Home-made Ice Creams 487 

Chocolate Sauce 

Dissolve one hal£ cake of chocolate in one cup of milk, 
bring to boiling point, then add a half cup of sugar, a small 
piece of butter, and let boil for four or five minutes; remove 
from the fire, add two teaspoons of vanilla, and set aside to 
cool but do not chill. This $auce msy be used over vanilla 
or chocolate cream. 

Pineapple Sauce 

Grate one fresh ripe pineapple, add to it two cups of 
sugar, two tablespoons of finely chopped preserved ginger, 
with two tablespoons of the ginger syrup; mix imtil all is 
melted together, and it is ready to use. 

Maple Sauce 

Melt one pound of maple sugar in one pint of boiling 
water, let boil five ntiinutes, strain, and add a cup and a half 
of chopped walnuts. 

Chestnut Sauce 

Take a cupful of boiled chestnuts, chop them into small 
pieces, and add a pint of spiced white syrup made of two cups 
of white sugar boiled with a cup of water. When it has 
boiled and deared, add a teaspoon of vanilla. A spice bag 
and a lemon rind used in bdHng give a delicious savory 
flavor. 

Sea Foam Sauce 

Beat the white of one egg with a half cup of powdered 
sugar to a staff froth. Whip one cup of cream stiff and 
drain it. Mix all together and beat in a tablespoon of 
sherry. ChiU, and dust with nutmeg. 

NOVEL WATS TO SERVE ICE CREAM 

Variety of wajrs to serve ice cream is perhaps more impor- 
tant than variety of creams to be served. There are many 



488 Home-made Ice Creams 

pretty individual molds into which the cream may be 
packed, but this means a good deal of work, and there are 
other ways of serving cream that are easier and just as 
effective. 

For example, one way is to halve large oranges and re- 
move the ptdp carefully, throw the shells into cold water 
until they are needed. Make a good orange jelly out of 
the pulp, wipe half of the orange shells dry, .fill them with 
the jelly, and set them away to chill. When ready to serve 
wipe the other half of the skins dry and fill with ice cream, 
smoothing off the tops evenly, then turn a jelly-filled half 
and an ice cream-filled half together. Tie them in place 
with narrow white satin ribbon, draw a spoon through the 
bow and lay them on a paper doily on the plate, with a 
square of delicate cake beside them, and serve. 

Ice Cream Sandwiches 

Split in half lengthwise as many little sponge cakes 
as there are guests to be served. Whip a cup of cream; 
have the ice cream frozen very hard in a square mold, then 
cut slices from it the size of the cakes, and lay the cakes up 
with it in sandwich form. Put the whipped cream into 
the pastry bag, squeeze a rose on top of each sandwich, and 
serve. 

Raspberxy Rings 

Make a good clear raspberry gelatine jelly, turn it into 
wet individual ring molds, allowing one to each cover, and 
let it set. When ready turn out onto plates and put a 
spoonful of raspberry ice and vanilla cream in the center of 
each mold, decorating the top with a little whipped cream 
put through a pastry bag. 

Banana Boats 

Select large, mellow bananas, and cut out lengthways one 
strip of the peel ; then hollow out the banana without break- 



Home-made Ice Creams 489 

ing the skin. Throw the boats into cold water and allow 
them to remain there tmtil needed. Make banana ice 
cream in the usual way ; when ready, drain and dry the boats 
with a soft cloth and fill them smoothly with the banana 
ice cream, dust the top of each with a little powdered dry 
macaroon, and serve with nut hermits. 

Frozen Peach Shortcake 

Make two thin layers of rich cup cake, the same as for 
layer cake. Have ready a quart of frozen peaches, spread 
one of the layers thickly with the peaches, put on the other 
layer, and spread it thinly with frozen fruit, heaping whipped 
cream on top. Save enough of the peach juice before freez- 
ing to make a small tureen of peach syrup to serve with the 
shortcake. Serve immediately after putting together. 

Pineapple Cones 

Pare carefully medium sized pineapples and cut them in 
half, slicing a little from each end so that they will stand 
steadily. With a sharp knife hollow out the center core. 
Dust the pineapple cup with sugar and fill with cream, 
sprinkling the top with finely chopped candied cherries. 
Squeeze the hard cores and add the juice, with a tablespoon 
of ginger sj^iip, to a cup of sugar S3rrup made from half 
a cup of sugar and half a cup of water. Serve the sauce 
with the cream cones. 

Watermelon Boat 

Cut a ripe melon lengthways, and hollow out the meat 
with a tablespoon, dropping the pieces into an enamel sieve 
set in a bowl of cracked ice. When the melon is ready 
fill half with pink orange ice and half with pistachio cream, 
and garnish the edge with fancy rounds of melon, serving 
two with each portion. Small cantaloupes are also pretty 
cut in half and filled one half with yellow orange ice and 



49^ Home-made Ice Creams 

the other half with the pistachio cream, or one half with 
raspberry ice and the other with chocolate cream. 



Frozen Rice Pudding 

Put six ounces of rice into a stewpan with one quart of 
milk and a half pound of sugar. Cook until the rice is soft 
(if the milk cooks away, add a little more), then add the 
beaten yolks of six eggs and a tablespoon of vanilla. When 
slightly thickened stand aside to cool, then turn into a 
freezer; after freezing for ten minutes open and add the egg 
whites beaten stiff with a little powdered sugar. Have 
ready a dish of stewed apricots that have rich syrup and 
have been chilled, turn out the frozen pudding, pour the 
fruit around it, and heap with whipped cream. 

Frozen Cream 

Whip a quart of cream till quite firm, lay it on a sieve, 
and when well drained mix into it eight ounces of idng sugar 
and fill round-shaped molds with it, pack in ice, freeze 
an hotir for each quart, and unmold them in a very cold 
dish. 

Make a hole in the top of this molded ice cream and 
fill in a mac6doine of fruits and serve with a chocolate 
sauce. Serve small chocolate puffs around the edge of the 
dish. 

SHERBETS AND ICES 

Sherbets and ices make easy and refreshing desserts for 
warm days and may be prepared several hours before they 
are needed, leaving only the actual freezing to be done at 
the last minute. An ice or a sherbet, being less rich than 
ice cream, is often preferred at luncheon time, while many 
people enjoy a fruit sherbet in place of the ordinary break- 
fast fruit. 

Ices may be colored almost any color desired to follow 



Home-made Ice Creams 491 

the general color scheme of the table decoration on special 
occasions. Sherbets are of ten used to break a heavy dinner, 
coming just before the salad course. 

Peach Sherbet 

Pare and cut fine two quarts of fresh ripe peaches, then 
mash them through a sieve. Dissolve one heaping 
tablespoon of gelatine powder in a half gill of hot water; add 
to it a half pint of milk, twelve ounces or a cup and a half 
of sugar, and one pint of cream. Mix all thoroughly, and 
when cold pour into the freezer and freeze. 

Pineapple Sherbet 

One quart of finely chopped preserved pineapple, one 
quart of cream and the stifSy beaten whites of two eggs; 
mix all well together and freeze. Any other sweet fresh fruit 
may be frozen in this way. 

Lemon Sherbet 

Mix the juice of three lemons with one and a half cups 
of sugar; add slowly, constantly stirring, one quart of milk 
(if added slowly it will not curdle), turn into the freezer, and 



Lilac Sherbet 

Warm a half pint of grape jelly or one pint of fresh grape 
juice and dissolve in one cup of sugar. Mix with it one 
quart of rich milk, ice cold, and freeze at once. Serve with 
frosted cakes. 

Plum Sherbet 

Warm one pint of fresh plum juice and dissolve in it one 
cup of sugar, then add one quart of rich, cold milk and 
freeze at once. This makes a very pretty colored sherbet. 



49^ Home-made Ice Creams 

Goosebeny Sherbet 

Stew one quart of fresh, ripe gooseberries, one pottnd of 
sugar, and one pint of water together, until the gooseberries 
are thoroughly soft. Throw in the grated peel and juice of 
half a lemon, and six cloves. When done, strain and cool, 
and when cold turn into the freezer, add one quart of cream, 
and freeze at once. 

Banana Sherbet 

Dissolve a half ounce of powdered gelatine in half a cup of 
boiling water. Add two cups of sugar to a quart of cold 
water, boil for ten minutes, and turn it into the gelatine. 
When this is cool, add the strained juice of two lemons and 
four bananas that have been rubbed through a sieve. Beat 
all together and freeze in the usual way. After freezing 
it may stand and harden until it is needed. 

Prune Sherbet 

Stew one pound of large French prunes until they are 
tender, adding no sugar. Remove from the fire, drain, and 
save the juice, in which dissolve a cup and a half of sugar and 
two teaspoons of gelatine powder that has been dissolved in 
a little cold water. When aU is melted together, boil five 
minutes. Take the stones from the prunes, then chop 
them, and strain the prune liquor over them; when cold 
add one pint of whipped cream, a tablespoon of vanilla, and 
two egg whites beaten stiff with a tablespoon of sugar. 
Pour in freezer and freeze. 

Rhubarb Sherbet 

Cook two pounds of rhubarb cut in pieces, first allowing it 
to scald in boiling water for five minutes; drain and add the 
grated rind and juice of one lemon, two cups of sugar, and 
half a cup of cold water. Cook until it is done, then add one 
cup of pineapple juice and one cup of spiced syrup. Put 



Home-made Ice Creams 493 

in the freezer, freeze it partly, and let it stand to ripen. 
When ready to serve, place in sherbet glasses and put 
candied cherries on top. 

Strawbeny Pftrfait 

Rinse, drain, and press through a sieve enough strawber* 
ries to make two thirds of a cup of ptdp. Boil one cup of 
sugar with a half cup of water without stirring until the 
syrup spins a short thread when dropped from a fork. 
Pour the mixture slowly over the stiflSy beaten whites of 
two eggs and continue to beat until it is cold. As it begins 
to thicken add the fruit pulp, a little at a time. Whip 
one pint of heavy cream and lightly stir it into the mix- 
ture, then put all into the freezer, first removing the pad- 
dle; cover, pack in ice and salt for three hours to ripen. 
Serve in parf ait glasses with a tablespoon of whipped cream 
on top and a ripe strawberry in the center. 

Apricot Paifait 

For the apricot parfait canned fruit will do if the ripe 
fruit is not seasonable. Dissolve one ounce of powdered 
gelatine in half a cup of hot water; add one cup of fruit 
pulp put through a sieve, one tablespoon of lemon juice, half 
a cup of chopped almonds, and one cup of sugar. Then beat 
for a few minutes and fold in two cups of whipped cream 
that has been well chilled. Fill fancy paper cases or par- 
fait glasses; dust over the top a little powdered macaroon 
and place one red cherry or ripe strawberry on top. 

CafS Paifait 

Pour one pint of boiling water over eight tablespoons 
of ground coffee. Let it stand for ten minutes, then add 
three quarters of a cup of sugar and one half pint of warm 
milk. When cool strain and add one half pint of heavy 
cream and freeze. Fill parfait glasses, adding a tablespoon 



494. Home-made Ice Creams 

of whipped cream to the top of each, and garnish with a 
fresh strawberry. 

M&noii FtEppS 

Rub two cups of preserved marrons through a sieve, add a 
pint of cream and a cup of the marron S3rrup to the pulp, 
and half a wineglass of Anisette, then freeze until nearly 
hard. When ready to serve fill frapp6 glasses, placing a 
tablespoon of whipped cream on the top of each glass with 
a maraschino cherry on top. Serve macaroons or Venetian 
zwieback with the frapp6. 

Orange PaifBit 

Dissolve half an ounce of powdered gelatine in one 
half cup of hot water and add one cup of sugar and two 
cups of whipped cream. Stir until it begins to thicken, 
then add one tablespoon of orange juice and one glass 
of orange marmalade. Beat all together, then put in one 
large or two small molds and freeze. 

Lemon Ice 

The juice of six lemons and one orange and the grate 
peel of one lemon, one pint of clarified sugar, half a pint of 
clear water; mix well and freeze. Be sure it is sweet enough 
as the sweetness freezes out some; if not add a little more 
of the sugar. Orange ice is made the same, but with six 
oranges and one lemon. 

Pineapple Ice 

The juice of a fine, ripe pineapple, juice of one lemon, 
half a pint of clear water, and a pint of clarified sugar; strain 
and freeze. This quantity is sufficient for eight people. 

Cheny Ice 

Take three cups of ripe cherries and one quart of water. 
Cook gently until the cherries are soft; then strain, thicken 



Home-made Ice Creams 495 

with a little cornstarch to the consistency of honey, add two 
cups of sugar, stir until it is all smooth, then strain into the 
freezer. A little red coloring added improves the appear- 
ance. 

Strawbeny Ice 

Stew three quarts of strawberries in a half pint of water 
over a slow fire, strain the juice, adding a pint of clarified 
sugar, a wineglass of sherry; mix well and freeze. 

Orange Ice 

The juice of six ripe oranges, the juice of one lemon, one 
quart of water, and one pound of sugar. Mix thoroughly 
and strain, add one gill of rich, sweet cream, and freeze 
instantly. 

Raspberry Ice 

Squeeze enough fresh, ripe raspberries through a jelly 
bag to give three pints of juice, add a pound of pulverized 
sugar, place in the freezer and freeze. Another way is to 
heat four quarts of the berries, adding four pints of sugar 
and a pint of water. When hot and nearly at the boiling 
point, add a tablespoon and a half of gelatine dissolved in a 
little cold water; when at the boiling point, strain, and when 
cold, freeze. 

Grape Ice 

One pint of grape juice, the juice of four lemons, the juice 
of one orange, one pint of sugar, and a pint of water. Heat 
and mix all together; then add one tablespoon of cornstarch 
dissolved in a little water. Let come to boiling point and 
when slightly thickened strain into the freezer and freeze. 

Ginger Water Ice 

To one quart of lemon water ice add six ounces of pre- 
served ginger, chopped as fine as possible, and a tablespoon 
of ginger syrup; mix well and freeze. 



49^ Home-made Ice Creams 

Frozen Fruit Juice 

A good way to use up any syrup left from preserv- 
ing, is to freeze it. Dissolve one teaspoon of powdered 
gelatine in a little hot water, add to it two otmces of sugar, 
and when cool, two cups of the fruit syrup. Beat very 
stiff the whites of two eggs, fold them in, and freeze. 

MOUSSES 

A general recipe for the making of mousse is here given. 
One cup of any of the dried fruits, after they have been 
stewed and put through a pur^ sieve, may be added to 
make the mousse, either peach, apricot, or apple, or any 
chosen kind. 

Dissolve one teaspoon of gelatine in two tablespoons of 
hot water, add to it when thoroughly dissolved a half cup of 
boiling milk, next add one cup of any fruit pulp desired, 
three tablespoons of orange juice, and fold in two cups of 
whipped cream. Put the mixture into a chilled mold and 
pack the mold in salt and ice for fotir hours. 

Honey Mousse 

^ Beat the yolks of four eggs lightly and then add to them 
gradually half a cup of strained honey, and heat slowly 
until thick, stirring constantly. Remove from the fire, and 
when cool add the beaten whites of the eggs, then add one 
pint of whipped cream; blend all together, put into the 
freezer, and when thoroughly chilled open and add a cupful 
of rum. Close, and pack in salt and ice until ready for 
use. When serving, add a cordial glass of apricot brandy 
to each portion. Macaroons or silver cake are best with 
the mousse. 

Chestnut Mousse 

Take one pound of French chestnuts, peel, blanch, and put 
them to boil in a small quantity of water; when very soft put 
them through a purde sieve and add to them six ounces of 



Home-made Ice Creams 497 

6ugar flavored with a teaspoon of vanilla, and beat until 
quite smooth. Add one cup of sweetened whipped cream 
and pour the mixture into a chilled mold. Solder on the 
cover with flour and water paste to make sure no salt gets 
in, then bury the mold in the freezer, and let it remain 
there for one hour. When ready to serve, dip the mold in 
hot water, wipe it carefully ; then turn the mousse out onto a 
napkin, folded crown shape, and send at once to the table. 

Maple Mousse 

Dissolve one teaspoon of powdered gelatine in four table- 
spoons of hot water ; add the beaten yolks of six eggs and one 
large cup of maple syrup. Stir over the fire until the mix- 
ttu^ thickens, but do not allow it to boil. Pour it into a 
bowl and beat until cool. When cool, fold in one pint of 
whipped cream that has been well drained. Put the mix- 
ture into individual molds or one large mold, and pack for 
five hours. When ready to serve, unmold and dust over 
the top one cup of blanched powdered sweet almonds. 
Serve with silver or angel cake. 

• 

Strawberry Mousse 

Wash, hull, and halve one box of ripe, firm strawberries, 
sprinkle with a cup of sugar, and let stand one hour. Dis- 
solve one tablespoon of gelatine in two tablespoons of cold 
water, then add three of hot water; mash the berries and 
run them through a fine sieve and then add the gelatine; set 
in a pan of ice water and stir until it begins to thicken, then 
fold in one quart of whipped cream, put in the freezer, and 
pack in salt and ice for five hours. 

e Mousse 

Add to two cups of sugar, one and one half cups of water, 
and one and one half tablespoons of cornstarch. Mix well 
and boil until clear. Add one quart of rich preserved pine- 
3a 



49^ Home-made Ice Creams 

apple or a large ripe fresh one to the juice of two lemons, 
enough clear water to make two full quarts, and the stiffly 
beaten whites of two eggs. Put the mixture in a mold and 
pack. 



HOME-MADB CANDIES 

Simple recipes insure the most successful results and 
offer fewer complications to the inexperienced. Failures 
are too expensive to repeat often. For real success in candy 
making one needs a few small utensils, which should be kept 
solely for candy use. A clean, good iron frying pan, 
medium sized, for sugar browning, wooden and enamel 
spoons, white enamel dishes for mixing, limber spatula knife, 
shallow candy pans of three sizes, a spool of copper wire, a 
round bottomed, smooth iron pot, one or two enamel sauce- 
pans, and a pair of shears. 

For the old-fashioned candy pull the iron pothook, which 
screws against the wall shoulder high, will be found a great 
saving of time and btimed fingers. Canvas gloves also 
enable one to handle the hot mass and are easily laundered. 
A long, sharp knife of uniform thickness and limber blade 
is best for cutting fudge or other candies in different 
shapes. The best butter, confectioner's sugar, the best 
nuts, and the best quality of flavorings, pure molasses, finest 
clover honey, ptire almond paste, rich sweet milk, and the 
highest grade of chocolate must be used in the different 
recipes to obtain perfection in candy making. 

Children like to make candy and it is well to have at hand 
simple and inexpensive recipes. 

Panocha 

' Pour cups of brown sugar, one scant cup of milk; let boil 
seven minutes; add one teaspoon of vanilla, a tablespoon of 
butter, and two cups of English walnuts. Whip to a cream 
and pour it into a lightly buttered pan to cool. 

499 



500 Home-made Candies 

Butter Scotch 

Take one cup of molasses, one cup of white sugar, a half 
cup of butter, and a half cup of water; mix them and cook 
over a slow fire until a little is firm when dropped into cold 
water. When done stir in a half teaspoon of bicarbonate of 
soda, and pour into well buttered shallow candy pans to 
cool. 

Hickoiy Nut Candy 

Put one pound of sugar, one tablespoon of vegetable oil, 
and half a cup of water in a saucepan, over the fire, and stir 
until the sugar is dissolved. With a damp cloth wipe down 
the sides of the pan and boil gently, without stirring, until 
the sjrrup spins a heavy thread. Add one cup of hickory 
nut meats, a teaspoon of vanilla flavoring, and turn into a 
shallow baking pan to cool. When cool, cut into squares. 

Molasses Candy to Pull 

One cup of molasses, one cup of sugar; melt together and 
boil until a drop will harden in cold water (it must harden 
but not become brittle). Add a pinch of baking soda and a 
teaspoon of vinegar and turn out onto two shallow buttered 
pans. Lightly flour the hands and pull as soon as the candy 
can be handled. After pulling white, twist, and cut in one- 
inch pieces with scissors. 

Everton Toffee 

Put one pound of powdered sugar and one teacup of 
cold water into a saucepan; when the sugar is dissolved add 
a quarter of a pound of butter beaten to a cream. Keep 
stirring the mixture over the fire until it hardens when a 
little is dropped upon a buttered dish. Just before the 
toffee is done add a half teaspoon of lemon flavoring, and 
pour into a shallow buttered pan to cool. This is a popular 
English candy. 



Home-made Candies 501 

Peanut Candy 

Put one pound of sugar into an iron frying pan; heat the 
pan hot before putting in the sugar and stir vigorously until 
entirely melted. As soon as the sugar is melted, throw in 
three quarters of a pound of shelled and skinned peanuts. 
Stir all quickly a moment, then turn into a buttered pan to 
cool. When slightly cool, mark off in squares. 

e Marshmallows 

Dissolve one half pound of gum arabic in one pint of 
pineapple juice, strain, and add to it one half potmd of 
sugar. Place in a saucepan and stir constantly over the 
fire until the syrup is the consistency of honey. Add 
gradually the whites of four well beaten eggs and stir the 
mixture until it becomes somewhat thin and does not adhere 
to the finger. Flavor with a little extra pineapple juice, 
if desired, then pour into a tin that has been slightly dusted 
with powdered starch. Sprinkle a little more starch over 
the top and as it cools mark off in squares. 

Honey Puffs 

Put into a saucepan one cup of cream, three cups of sugar, 
a half cup of honey (strained). When the cream and 
sugar have been boiled together until they thread from 
the spoon add the honey; cook until the syrup will make a 
soft ball when dropped into cold water. Remove from the 
fire, add the beaten white of one egg and a cup of chopped 
nut meats, and when the mixture is firm and creamy shape 
into balls. 

Popping Com in Oil 

Put one third cup of vegetable oil into a frying pan and, 
when it is hot, add almost enough unpopped com to cover 
the bottom. Cover the pan securely and shake occasion- 
ally while the com is popping. 



502 Home-made Candies 

Vinegar Candy 

Put into'^a saucepan two cups of sugar, a half cup of 
water, a half cup of vinegar, and a small piece of butter. 
Boil until the candy brittles in cold water. Just before 
removing it from the stove add a cupful of nut meats; or if 
Uked better the candy may be pulled and the nuts omitted. 

Fig Cream 

Three cups of sugar, one cup of cream, half a cup of 
strained honey, and the juice of one large lemon. Cook 
the sugar, cream, and honey to a soft consistency that f onns 
a firm, waxy ball when dropped in cold water. Cool the 
mixture, stirring constantly, and when it thickens add 
half a pound of chopped figs and the lemon juice. When 
too thick to pour spread in a buttered pan and cut into 
squares before it gets cold. 

Chocolate Cream Drops 

Take French cream and mold into cone-shaped forms 
with the fingers; then lay the cones on waxed paper or a 
marble slab until the next day to harden; or make them in 
the morning and leave until the afternoon. Melt some 
chocolate in a basin and place in another basin of boiling 
water. When melted and the creams are hard enough to 
handle take one at a time on a fork and drop into the melted 
chocolate, roll it until well covered, and then slip from the 
fork upon waxed paper and put aside to harden. 

Apple Paste 

Take a dozen apples, peel and core them, and put them 
into water, allowing them to remain till they are quite soft. 
Remove and rub them through a fine sieve with a wooden 
spoon. Weigh the pulp and put it in a preserving pan 
with the same weight of sugar. Boil for twenty minutes. 



Home-made Candies 503 

then pour it out thin on plates. When cool cut the paste 
into squares or any other shapes desired. When cut, allow 
it to dry thoroughly in a cool oven. 

Turkish Delight 

Soak two tablespoons of gelatine in one third cup of cold 
water. When dissolved, add one cup of granulated sugar. 
Boil twenty minutes, adding the juice of a half lemon and a 
half orange. Take from the fire, flavor with a teaspoon of 
extract of rose or strawberry, add a quarter cup chopped 
nuts, pour into a greased shallow pan; cool, cut in squares, 
and roll in pink sugar. 

Turkish Paste 

Boil five pounds of sugar and one quart of water tmtil it 
reaches the thickness of cold honey. Pour in slowly ten 
ounces of wheat starch that has been blended in a little 
water, next add half an ounce, of cream of tartar and stir 
the mixture one way until it gets quite thick or until a drop 
will sustain itself on a plate. When done, pour the mixture 
onto a flat pan which has been sifted lightly with corn- 
starch. Just before removing from the fire add a cup 
of blanched and chopped almonds and a half cup of 
pistachio nuts. 

Baltimore Fudge 

Two pounds of grantdated sugar, one pint of milk, a 
quarter pound of butter, half a cake tmsweetened chocolate 
grated. Melt slowly to the boiling point, then boil from 
seven to ten minutes, trying on a cold plate just before 
removing from the fire. Add two teaspoons of good vanilla 
flavoring. When it sets on the cold plate remove at once 
from the fire or it will granulate. Pour into lightly but- 
tered pans and when cool enough cut into squares. 



504 Hoxne-xnade Candies 

Cocoanut Fudge 

Into a clean granite saucepan put three cups of granu- 
lated sugar, one cup of milk, and a tablespoon of butter with 
the grated meat of one small cocoanut. Stir the mixture 
and allow it to boil up for one minute, then remove from the 
fire and beat until it begins to grain; turn into lightly but- 
tered pans and allow it to cool. Before removing it from the 
fire drop a little into cold water and stop its boiling when 
the cold water turns it into a soft ball. It should be cut in 
the pan before it gets too firmly set. 

Maple Fudge 

One potmd maple sugar and one cup milk. Bring to a 
boil and add a tablespoon of butter. Cook until it becomes 
brittle when tested in cold water. Remove from the fire, 
stir vigorously until it begins to granulate around the 
edge of the kettle, and then pour into a buttered pan. 

Nut Creams 

Chop almonds, hickory nuts, butternuts, or English wall- 
nuts quite fine. Make the French cream, and before 
adding all the sugar and while the cream is still quite soft 
stir into it the nuts and then form into balls, bars, or 
squares. Three or four kinds of nuts may be mixed together. 

Almond Rolls 

One half pound of almond paste, one potmd of very fine 
powdered sugar, two tablespoons of lemon juice, the white of 
one unbeaten egg; knead into the paste gradually the sugar, 
lemon juice, and egg; form the mixture into cylinders, roll 
them into melted chocolate, and sprinkle with finely pow- 
dered almonds; place in a pan in a slow drying oven until 
slightly hardened. 



Home-xnade Candies 5^5 

Cream Chocolate 

Two pounds of granulated sugar, a cup of sweet cream, a 
tablespoon of butter, and a half cake of chocolate, grated. 
Melt the ingredients together in a smooth iron pot and let 
boil evenly eight to ten minutes, testing on a cold plate very 
often. 

When done pour in a lightly buttered shallow pan and 
set. While it is cooling mark off into squares. If wrapped 
in waxed paper it will not dry out. Before moving from 
the fire add a teaspoon of good vanilla flavoring, as it 
improves the taste. 

Do not boil it too long or it will become like fudge. 
Using cream instead of milk makes it more like that which 
is imported. 

A Recipe Popular in 1770 

To make "March-pane" — ^take a pound of Jordan 
almonds, blanch and beat them in a marble mortar very 
fine; then put to them three quarters of a pound of double 
refined sugar, and beat them with a few drops of orange- 
flower water; beat all together till 'tis a very good paste, 
then roll it into what shape you please. 

French Fondant or French Cream 

Two cups of sugar, one cup of water. Stir the sugar and 
water together until mixed; do not stir after it has come 
to the boiling point, stir only enough to prevent sticking 
at the bottom; boil until a soft ball forms when dropped 
into cold water; remove from the fire and place saucepan in 
a pan of cold water. Allow the mixture to stand until it is 
cool; add half a teaspoon of vanilla; then beat until it forms 
a white mass which leaves the edge of the pan; knead it well 
until it is perfectly smooth and no hard grains remain. 

With a very little practice expert molding may easily be 
accomplished. A marble slab is best to use in kneading 



5o6 Home-made Candies 

and molding fondant. The slab is cool and marble is a bet- 
ter molding stirface than wood. 

Wintergreen Bonbons 

Prepare the fondant as directed. Flavor with essence of 
wintergreen. Color a delicate pink or a very delicate green. 
Form into oblong bonbons by rolling a small rotmd ball and 
then flattening it with the palm of the hand. 

Candied Strawberries 

Berries and sugar in the proportion of pound to pound. 
Wash berries carefully, a few at a time, before capping. 
Put berries and sugar together into a kettle on the back 
of the stove. Let stand until the extracted juice covers the 
fruit; then put on the fire and cook exactly fifteen minutes 
after it begins to boil. Turn into a crock and let stand over- 
night. Put in glass jars and keep in a dark closet. 

Holiday Pralines 

The ordinary nut sweets are so rich that their free use is 
prohibitive, but the pralines are so simple that they may be 
eaten without fear of illness. 

Use the best quality of nuts and make the dainty in two 
sizes. Hickory nuts cracked and halved, filberts, blanched 
and dried, and pecans in halves should be used for the 
small pralines. Blanch Brazil nuts and princess nuts and 
halve English walnuts for the larger pralines. 

Take one cup of sugar, three qtiarters of a cup of water, 
and boil until it threads from the spoon and is almost 
ready to sugar; turn the nuts in quickly and stir rapidly 
while it sugars. Throw them into a large flour sieve, sift 
off the loose sugar, separating them if they have stuck 
together while they cool. When cold, pack them in wax 
paper lined boxes until ready to use. 



Hoxne-made Candies 507 

Pistachio Pralines 

Blanch one potind of pistachio nuts. Dissolve one pound 
of sugar in half a cup of water, let it boil until it forms a little 
ball when dropped into cold water; add the nuts and stir 
quickly until they have taken up all the sugar, and continue 
stirring until the sugar syrup or caramel has granulated 
about them. Then throw them onto a sieve, sprinkle them 
lightly with a little orange or rose flavoring, and shake off 
all the loose sugar. 



BEVERAGES 
Coffee 

Its making and serving and its efEect upon the health 
are always subjects of interest to housekeepers. One 
may get some idea of the nimiber of ways of making it from 
the numerous percolators and coffee pots on the market, for 
each family seems to have its own particular method, 
which appears to require a special utensil. 

Though excellent brands of coffee are to be had many 
people still prefer to roast their own, and here is a hint which 
may be of service. After obtaining the brand of green 
coffee that is best liked add to each three pounds of it 
before roasting a piece of butter the size of a walnut and a 
dessertspoon of powdered sugar. The addition of the butter 
and sugar develops the flavor and aroma of the berry. 

The usual rule in making coffee is to allow one tablespoon 
of coffee (ground) to each cup of water; whether the water 
is cold or boiling is a matter decided by the method each 
housekeeper uses. 

Caf 6 au Lait 

Make one quart of very strong coffee; strain and add one 
pint of hot TTiillf and a half pint of cream and a half pint of 
whipped cream and sugar to taste. This may be served hot 
for breakfast or in the afternoon chilled for those who prefer 
it to tea. 

Caf6Noir 

Make a quart of strong coffee and boil two cloves with it. 

In each after-dinner cup place one lump of sugar and one 

508 



Severai^es 509 

teaspoon of apricot brandy, plain brandy, or Anisette 
cordial. 

Tea 

To make the best tea the water must be jtmiping and 
boiling when the tea is added, and be at once removed from 
the fire when the tea is added, covered closely, and allowed 
to infuse for three to five minutes. Never reheat tea. If 
it is to stand at all, during the service of a meal or for any 
other reason, strain it at once, after the infusing period, into 
a clean, hot pot. A heaping tablespoon of tea to a quart of 
boiling water is the usual recipe. 

Chocolate and Cocoa 

In making chocolate allow a half ounce of chocolate to 
every half pint of water or milk. This applies also to the 
individual cakes that come, to use one to a cup, or a half 
tablespoon of grated chocolate to a cup. It should be put 
into the hot liquid, brought to the boiling point, and sweet- 
ened with two or three teaspoons of sugar according to 
taste. Whipped cream may be added to make the choco- 
late richer. 

In making cocoa allow two tablespoons of cocoa to one 
quart of milk. Mix the cocoa smooth with a little boiling 
water, then add it to the hot milk with a half cup of sugar. 
Boil up once, strain, and serve. If the cocoa is for children 
and not wanted quite as rich, it may be made of half milk 
and half water. 

Any of the foregoing four drinks may be served iced. 

COCKTAILS 

The mixing of drinks is sometimes rather problematical in 
households where it is not of daily occurrence and recipes 
are not at hand to help one out in emergency. So here are 
just a few cocktaU secrets and just a few wine cup hints. 



510 Bevera^< 

The home equipment for drink mixing includes an ioe 
shaver, cocktail shaker, lemon squeezer, strainer, long 
handled spoon and toddy stick, sharp knives, a jigger for 
Measuring, and proper glasses. A cracked ice bowl with 
tiny silver tongs is always on the tray. 

Abemarle Biacer 

Into a whiskey glass pour one half jigger of pioon bitters, 
a half jigger of brandy, a half jigger of green crfeme de 
menthe, a dash of absinthe, and a tablespoon of shaved ice. 
Shake, strain, and serve. 

Bronx Cocktail 

One dash orange bitters, one third jigger of Italian ver- 
mouth, one third jigger of French vermouth, and one third 
jigger of Gordon gin. Prapp^ and strain into cocktail 
glass, squeeze a piece of orange peel on top and droq it into 
the glass. 

Coffee Cocktail 

Take a pony of port wine, a pony of brandy, a teaspoon of 
powdered sugar, and one fresh egg, mix in tumbler half filled 
with shaved ice, then strain into cocktail glass and grate a 
little nutmeg over the top. 

American Beauty 

Into the rrdxesr half filled with shaved ice put two dashes 
of grenadine syrup, one third jigger of Italian vermouth, 
and two thirds jigger of Tom gin. Stir well and strain into 
cocktail glass witii a red cherry in the bottom. 

Chanticleer 

Chanticleer, a most popular cocktail, is made of one 
half Gordon gin, one fourth French vermouth, one fourth 
Italian vermouth, and a dash of orange bitters. Four 



Beverages 511 

bruised mint leaves, one clove, and a tiny strip of lemon peel 
are added while it is being shaken to perfectly blend it; then 
it is strained into a chilled glass and served. 

Absinfhe Cocktail 

Put a cup of cracked ice in the shaker with three or four 
dashes of S3mip, one dash of angostura bitters, one dash 
Anisette, one quarter wineglass of seltzer, three quarters 
wineglass of absinthe. Shake well until almost frozen, strain 
into cocktail glass, squeeze a bit of lemon peel on top, and 
serve. 

Swan Cocktail 

One half jigger of gin, one quarter jigger of French ver- 
mouth, one quarter jigger of Italian vermouth, juice of one 
lime, frapp6, and serve ; put an olive in the glass. 

Orange Blossom 

Turn over the ice in the shaker one third jigger of orange 
juice, two thirds of jigger of Gordon gin, dash of orange 
bitters, shake well, strain into cocktail glass, drop in each 
glass one marron. 

Champagne Cocktail 

Two slices of orange, one slice of diced pineapple, one 
Itmip of sugar, two dashes of angostura bitters, a jigger of 
Monopole champagne. Shake well and turn into the glass, 
adding two fresh strawberries. 

Ruby Cocktail 

One third jigger Italian vermouth, two thirds jigger of 
sloe gin, frapp^ and strain into cocktail glass, adding one 
crfeme de menthe cherry. 



51^ Bevera^i 

Mbcmlis^t Cocktail 

One third jigger dubonnet bitters, one third each of 
French vermouth and Gordon gin, frappd and strain into 
glass with one white grape. 

Zaza Cocktail 

One half jigger each of Gordon gin and dubonnet bitters, 
frapp^ and strain into cocktail glass with red cherry in the 
bottom. 

Clover Club 

The juice of half a lemon, a sixth jigger of grenadine, 
one jigger of gin, and the white of an egg. Shake with 
shaved ice, then strain into a claret glass and put a clover 
mint on top of each. 

Martini 

Into a half tumbler of shaved ice put a dash of orange 
bitters, a jigger each of vermouth and old Tom gin, and a 
few drops of lemon juice; shake well and strain into glass. 

Manhattan 

Into a half tumbler of shaved ice put two dashes of bitters, 
two thirds jigger of whiskey, and one third jigger of Italian 
vermouth. Shake well and strain into glass, putting a 
squeezing of lemon peel on top. 

Rose Cocktail 

Rose cocktails are made of golden gin and vermouth, 
with a teaspoon of rose water, and petals of roses scattered 
on the top. 



Bevera|(e8 513 

FRUIT COCKTAILS 

Cheiry Cocktail 

Wash, stone, and halve ripe, firm ox-heart cherries, drain, 
and chill. Spice, sweeten, and chill the juice, and pour over 
the fruit when ready to serve. 

Strawberry Cocktail 

Wash, htdl, and halve firm ripe cherries, chill the fruit, and 
when ready to serve add enough spiced strawberry syrup to 
moisten the fruit and serve with a firm stick of fresh cinna- 
mon upon which the fruit is speared. 

GiBpefruit Cocktail 

Remove the fruit carefully from the bitter skin and place 
in a bowl on ice until needed. Then add juice of one lemon, 
a wineglass of sherry, four teaspoons of powdered sugar, 
and a dash of nutmeg. Place in the glasses and garnish 
with red cherries. 

Pineapple Cocktail 

The cocktails are made by cutting three or four balls of 
pineapple with a cutter for each glass, roll them in powdered 
sugar and a little apricot brandy. When ready to serve pour 
over them the cocktail of vermouth and golden gin. 

Alligator Pear Cocktail 

Pare and seed one alligator pear, then dice it. Add to it a 
teaspoon of ketchup, six drops of tabasco, one teaspoon each 
of Worcestershire sauce and chutney syrup, and juice of a 
lemon. Chill and serve in cocktail glasses. 
33 



514 Bevera|(e8 

WINE CUPS 

Champagne Cup 

Two ponies of cognac, two of white curagoa, two of mar- 
aschino, the juice of two lemons, one bottle club soda, 
and one quart of champagne; berries in season and one strip 
of cucumber rind. Sweeten to taste, and if served at once 
a small lump of ice will do no harm. A few sprigs of mint 
may be added by way of decoration. 

Claret Cup 

Juice of two lemons and one orange; two ponies of bene- 
dictine and two of curagoa, a bottle of claret, and one of 
apoUinaris water. Sweeten to taste; any small fruits on 
hand can be dropped in as cut strawberries, slices of banana, 
cherries, raspberries, or bits of pineapple. 

Moselle Cup 

Juice of half a pineapple, three lemons and two oranges; 
a pony of apricot brandy, one of brandy, a stick of cinna- 
mon, and three cloves; one bottle of sparkling moselle, one 
of imported ginger ale. Add diced pineapple, red cherries, 
and a few sprays of mint. Chill and serve. 

Sauteme cup is made in the same way as the champagne, 
substituting the sauteme for champagne. Rhine wine cup 
is also made the same way. 

Rose Cup 

Juice of six oranges, eight lemons, one small pineapple, 
pint of juicy cherries, and jtiice of one box of strawberries. 
When all the juice is squeezed strain carefully through a 
cheesecloth, wet with cold water, then add a glass of apricot 
brandy and a pound of sugar that has been melted in a cup 
of dear boiling water and a gill of rose water. Let stand and 
mellow, and when ready to use add a bottle of sparkling 



Beverages 515 

moselle and a bottle of apollinaris water and the ice. Over 
the top slice thinly a few large strawberries and scatter a 
few rose petals. 

MuUed Cider 

To two quarts of cider add one nutmeg crushed, not 
grated, fine; six whole cloves, and three sticks.of cinnamon. 
Add half a cup of light brown sugar. Simmer gently, 
never allowing it to boil. Keep it lightly covered and cook 
fifteen minutes. Serve steaming hot. 

Hot Spiced Cider 

This may be used to carry out the old wassail bowl at 
holiday time if desired. Take three quarts of good cider and 
put it into a clean saucepan, adding a gill of sugar syrup 
flavored with vanilla, a small spice bag, and a strip of lemon 
peel. Let come to boiling point, let stand at that heat for 
fifteen minutes, then turn into the punch bowl and put over 
the top a few baked apples that have been cored and baked 
with cinnamon and sugar. Serve smoking hot. 

MuUed Wine 

Father Knickerbocker's Christmas beverage was mulled 
wine in the early days when old New York was young, 
and it was made in this way. Take one pint of water, one 
pound of sugar, six cloves, a half stick of cinnamon, a salt- 
spoon of allspice, a half grated nutmeg, and the grated rind 
of a lemon. Let come to boiling point and stir until all 
ingredients are thoroughly blended, then add a quart of fine 
old port wine and let all come to boiling point again; then 
strain into grog glasses or mugs, putting a cinnamon stick in 
each by way of a toddy stick. 

Blackberry Cordial 

To two quarts of blackberry juice squeezed cold add fotu* 
potmds of sugar, boil ten minutes, and skim. Then add a 



5i6 Beverages 

spice bag and one quart of good brandy, boil ten minutes 
and cool, then bottle and seal. 

PUNCHES 

The fatilt often found with American drinks is that they 
are served too cold, so that their delicacy of flavor is lost; 
the proper way to do is to have all of the ingredients chilled 
before mixing together, then place the bowl containing the 
punch in a bowl of cracked ice, which keeps it chilled but 
there is no cracked ice in the punch to dilute it and destroy 
its flavor. 

Christmas Punch 

Juice of six oranges, six lemons, two grapefruit, one grated 
pineapple, two cups of sugar melted in one cup of hot water 
then cooled, one cup of strong Ceylon tea; when all is chilled 
add four quarts of water turned over a block of ice in the 
punch bowl. Drain a small bottle of maraschino cherries, 
and float them on top with a few candied mint leaves. 

Rum Punch 

One quart Jamaica rum, two quarts of Medford, one 
quart brandy, a half pint of sherry, one gill each of curagoa 
and maraschino, a pint of lemon juice, a half pound of sugar, 
and a pot of tea. Add sliced lemons, or oranges, pine- 
apples, and pitted cherries. Add two quarts of apoUinaris 
and two of ginger ale. Pour over a lump of ice in the ptmch 
bowl. 

ia Fish House Punch 



Three fourths of a pound of white sugar dissolved in 
water; one third of a pint of lemon juice; one half pint 
cognac, one fourth pint each of Jamaica rum and peach 
brandy, and one quart of apoUinaris water. Timi into the 
punch bowl over a block of ice. 



Beverages 517 

Ginger Punch 

To the jttice of twelve lemons add half a small bottle each 
of green and red maraschino cherries, three sliced oranges 
and the juice of one small pineapple, and a quart of filtered 
water and sweeten to taste. Set away to chill and mellow. 
When ready to serve add ice and six bottles of ginger ale. 

Pumpkin Punch for Thanksgiving 

Boil and strain one small pumpkin, add one pint of sugar 
and one pint of molasses, one pint of apricot brandy, grating 
of nutmeg, juice of three lemons and three oranges. Let 
stand three hours, strain, add ice and one pint bottle of 
champagne and two quarts of vichy. Serve in a hollow 
pumpkin shell pointed at the top. 

Gnome Punch 

One pint of Catawba wine and a small spice bag, juice 
and rind of one lemon, a cup of sugar, and grating of nutmeg ; 
heat to boiling point, let stand and cool, strain, and add one 
pint of ginger ale and two bottles of vichy, ice, and a bottle 
of cocktail chestnuts. Serve in punch glasses. 

Hongkong Cooler 

Pour one quart of boiling water over three tablespoons of 
Ceylon tea; let steep five minutes; strain and cool; while 
cooling add four tablespoons sugar, three slices lemon, two 
cloves, and four maraschino cherries. When ready to 
serve pour in tall glasses half full of shaved ice, adding a 
dash of Jamaica rum to each glass. Place a spray of mint 
on top of each glass. 

Grape Cooler 

Remove the segments from a large firm grapefruit, 
placing them in a small enamel strainer to drain; chill one 



5i8 Beverages 

quart bottle of grape juice. Place the fruit on cracked 
ice in the punch bowl, add sugar to taste, and add one bottle 
of sparkling water. 

Fruit Punch 

Juice of three lemons and three oranges, one quart of pine- 
apple juice, two lemons and two oranges thinly sliced, one 
box of ripe strawberries cut in half, one pound of sugar; mix 
ingredients, turn over cracked ice in the punch bowl, and 
add one quart of apoUinaris water. 

Pineapple Punch 

Add to the juice of three lemons and a pound of sugar two 
quart bottles of pineapple juice, two slices fresh pineapple 
diced, turn over cracked ice in the punch bowl, and add just 
before serving two bottles of imported ginger ale. 

Fisherman's Punch 

Grate one pineapple and add one pound of powdered 
sugar, juice of three lemons, grated peel of one, and a small 
jar of preserved ginger. Turn in the syrup and chop the 
ginger up very fine. When ready to serve add three bottles 
of ginger ale, cracked ice, and a large bottle of champagne. 

Hot Chocolate Punch 

Make a quart of rich hot chocolate, add one small cup of 
Jamaica rum, one pint of whipped cream, and one tablespoon 
of syrup of ginger and serve hot. 

Mint Julep 

Melt one cup of sugar in one cup of boiling water; let 
cool; bruise three or four sprigs of mint and throw into the 
mixture; as it cools half fill punch glasses with shaved ice, 
add one tablespoon of the syrup to each glass, put three or 
f otu* sprigs of mint in the glass, first dipping it in cold water 



/ 

Beverages 519 

and dusting it with powdered sugar; fill the glass with Mount 
Vernon whiskey. 

Cherry Flip 

Stone and squeeze the juice from two quarts of ripe 
cherries, throw in half a cup of stoned cherries. Melt 
a pound of sugar in a pint of boiling water; as it simmers for 
three minutes add two slices of lemon four cloves, and a tiny 
piece of ginger root; strain and cool; add to the cherry juice 
and turn into the punch bowl over cracked ice. When 
ready to serve add a pint jar of Gordon and Dilworth's 
Pimcheezy. 

Honey Pdsset 

Take one pint of strained honey, the juice of twenty-four, 
lemons, grated peel of one, and a tumbler of rum, mix well, 
and when ready to serve to each half glass of the mixture add 
a half glass of vichy ; chill before mixing the ingredients but 
do not ice the drink. A spray of fresh mint washed then 
dusted with powdered sugar stuck in each glass makes it 
attractive in appearance. 

Harvest Punch 

One cup of molasses, half cup of sugar, two tablespoons of 
ginger syrup, one quart of milk, a little grated lemon peel; 
mix well, then add a pint of cream, grate a little nutmeg over 
the top, serve chilled but not iced. This is a refreshing and 
nourishing drink as well. 

Christmas Eggnog 

The nog may be made a strictly temperance drink by add- 
ing a tablespoon of vanilla instead of the liquor. Put in a 
bowl the yolks of one dozen fresh eggs and the stiflBy beaten 
whites of two of the eggs, beat until very light, then add a 
cup and a half of white granulated sugar, and half a grated 



5^0 Beverages 

nutmeg. Beat and add slowly a pint of rich milk, fotir more 
egg whites beaten stiflE, three quarters of a tumbler of Jamaica 
rum, and a pint of rich cream. Keep stirring all the time 
and then add a pint more milk. Beat the rest of the egg 
whites stiff and add to them three teaspoons of powdered su- 
gar, a teaspoon of apricot cordial, and a dusting of nutmeg; 
then drop by spoonfuls on top of the nog. Set the bowl in 
another filled with cracked ice to keep it chilled, but do not 
ice the nog. This makes the wassail bowl always served 
at New Year's and on Twelfth Night. This is sufficient 
to serve ten people once. 

PORCH DRINKS 

With a generous amount of company, and perhaps a num- 
ber of young people fresh from the tennis field or golf links, 
every afternoon just at tea time who prefer something cool- 
ing rather than the usual cup of tea any of the following re- 
cipes may be used and the drinks temptingly served with 
dainty wafers, sandwiches, or cake, and they will prove most 
acceptable. 

The first requisites needed for successful drink mixing 
are plenty of ice, clear or filtered water, vichy, ginger ale, 
and carbonized waters. Next, good, juicy lemons and as 
much other fresh fruit as the market affords. 

The fruit waters, as they are called, are perhaps more 
English than American drinks, but are most refreshing 
when properly made. For strawberry water proceed in the 
following way: — ^Wash and crush one quart of fresh ripe 
strawberries with one pound of sugar, let them stand several 
hours, then strain carefully and add one pint of dear water. 
Chill and serve with cracked ice and vichy. The orange 
and the pineapple are made in the same way, only adding a 
little lemon juice or orange flower water if the flavor is 
liked. 

Next the syrups are in order and make a line of richer 
drinks. The flavors are ginger, rose, mint, coffee, raspberry, 



Beverages 521 

mulberry, dove, pink, violet, and chocolate. To one and all 
these vichy, cracked ice, and either whipped cream or ice 
cream may be added. Then there is the iced botuUon with a 
dash of whipped cream, iced chicken or dam broth, which 
also belong to the list of stmuner drinks. 

Welsh Nectar 

This drink has to be made a week ahead of the time it is 
wanted, so that the two gallons which the redpe calls for 
may become just right for bottling for use. Pare thinly 
eight lemons and drop the peel into eight quarts of boiling 
water, then let stand and cool; when cool add one pound of 
stoned and chopped large raisins, two pounds of sugar, the 
juice of the lemons, and three doves. Let it stand for five 
days in a cool place carefully covered, stirring it occasion- 
ally, then strain through cheesedoth, bottle in dean bottles, 
cork, and put on ice to chill. 

Tem.pera]ice Horse's Neck 

Ped a thin skinned lemon in one long strip and arrange 
it in the glass so that one end hangs over. Put into the 
shaker with the cracked ice the juice of the lemon, a heaping 
tablesx>oon of sugar, juice of half a grapefruit, and a dash of 
orange bitters. When shaken and chilled turn into the 
glass with the peel and fill it with ginger ale; a little shaved 
ice may be added if one wants the drink very cold. 

Home-made Soda Water 

At a diildren's party serve this drink, which fizzes. Boil 
together in a granite saucepan (not metal) two pounds of 
sugar, three pints of hot water, and two ounces of tartaric 
add for five minutes. Put away to cool and then stir in the 
well beaten whites of three eggs and one ounce of flavoring, 
as vanilla or sarsaparilla. When ready to use put one 



5^2 Beverages 

tablespoon of the syrup into a half glass of water, add a scant 
quarter teaspoon of baking soda, and beat to create a foam. 

Almond Milk 

Blanch two ounces of Jordan almonds and half an otmce 
of bitter almonds and pound them in a mortar, adding a 
little at a time a tablespoon of orange flower water, and two 
tablespoons of sugar. When the mixture is smooth and 
creamy, add one pint of milk, and let stand. Drain before 
using. 

Raspbeny Vinegar Syrup 

One pint of raspberry juice, four pints of sugar, two pints 
of dder vinegar, and boil gently for fifteen minutes. Care- 
fully strain and cool, and it is ready for use. Or it may be 
made in the following way : — Let the fruit stand in the vine- 
gar several days, then filter it, add the sugar, and heat to 
boiling point, strain again, then cool, and it is ready for 
use, and is more apt to retain its fine flavor. 

Mead 

Pour over one and a half pints of sugar and a half pint of 
molasses, three pints of boiling water; stir and let stand 
until lukewarm, then add two ounces of tartaric acid and 
an otmce of essence of sassafras. When thoroughly cold, 
bottle. When desired for use, put a tablespoon of the mead 
in a tumbler and fill the glass with any good carbonated 
water. 

Apricot Flip 

Pare, stone and stew two potmds of ripe apricots; sweeten 
them until quite rich and chill thoroughly; when ready to 
serve add two bottles of ginger ale, one of apoUinaris, and 
a bunch of mint leaves. 



Beverages 523 

Milk Snap 

To each tumbler of chilled rich milk add a quarter of a 
tumbler of ginger sjrrup and the beaten white of one fresh 
egg. Shake in a shaker and add a dash of grated lemon peel 
just before serving. 

Pineapple Pilot 

Grate one ripe, fresh pineapple; cover with one cup of 
granulated sugar and let stand on ice; when ready to serve 
add the juice of two lemons, a bottle of ginger ale, and a pint 
of apoUinaris water. 

Lemonade 

Juice of eighteen lemons, grated peel of two, juice of six 
oranges and two grapefruit; put two pounds of sugar in a 
saucepan with one quart of water; when it is melted let it 
boil for two minutes, skim it, then remove from the fire and 
cool it and add it to the fruit juice. Set away to chill ; when 
it is time to serve it strain half into the punch bowl and 
add water, mix well and set the bowl into the larger re- 
ceptacle of cracked ice. When the second half is needed 
strain it into the bowl and add charged water, or one 
quart of charged water and two bottles of imported ginger 
ale. Instead of using the ptmch bowl of course the drink 
may be shaken with cracked ice in shaker, then ttimed into 
the glasses. 



Glorified Lemonade 

An ordinary lemonade will be much more attractive 
if a little juice of the currant or raspberry is added, sufficient 
to make the liquid pinky. Then add a few fresh pineapple 
sticks and a thinly sliced banana. Ice and serve. 



5^4 Beverages 



J 



;r4ii[t)iK If 



e 



Rind and juice of three lemons, two ounces loaf sugar, 
one quart of boiling water. Peel lemons very thin, and put 
in a jug with the sugar, pour over the boiling water and let 
cool, strain, and add water to strained juice when cold. 



PRESERVING AND PICKLING 

There seems to be a bit of haziness in most minds as to 
the correct way of using the words "conserve" and "pre- 
serve. ' ' To dear the matter up once for all the explanation 
of each word will show the difference. In France, the word 
conserve is applied to any food, fruit, vegetable, meat, game, 
fish, pickles, sweetmeats, or anything that is put up and 
sealed in tin, glass, or any other carrier to keep over the 
winter months or as much longer as is required. In America 
the term is used for any unusual sweetmeat when one is 
uncertain as to in just which class it belongs. This is an 
incorrect use of the word, for what usually is called a con- 
serve is a pound-for-pound preserve, which, though usually 
sealed, is rich and heavy enough to keep, carefully covered 
in a cool place, without sealing, for several months. 

Although there are many new methods for preserving and 
pickling in vogue, and so-called easier ways of doing the 
work, still the dainties cooked in the large low porcelain-lined 
iron pots of our grandmothers' day have yet to be excelled. 
While still being in favor of most of the old methods it is 
but fair to at least tell something of the new, leaving the 
housekeeper the liberty of her own choice. A few simple 
rules will serve as a general guide aided by a true set of 
kitchen scales, quart and pint cups, and the other parapher- 
nalia summed up in one of the following paragraphs. 

Preserve Making 

Preserves are usually made of the large seeded fruits, 
pared or unpared as the case may be. After careful washing 

525 



526 Preserving and 

the fruit, either whole or halved and the stones removed, is 
placed in the preserving kettle with three quarters of a pint 
of sugar to a pound of fruit and just enough water to keep 
them from burning. Allow the fruit to heat slowly until it 
begins to give off its own jtiice, then boil gently and skim 
thoroughly, cooking until the fruit is tender, when it should 
be removed to a large bowl with a skimmer and the juice be 
allowed to boil ten minutes. Now return the fruit to the 
juice and let it all heat through again and it will be ready for 
the jars. Another way is to allow the fruit to cook; first, 
then remove it and add the sugar to the boiling syrup, after 
boiling it ten minutes and skimming carefully, return the 
fruit, boil up once, and then put in the jars. If it is desired 
to make the preserve still richer then use a pound of sugar 
to each pound of fruit, using just as little water as possible, 
only enough to keep them from burning until they begin to 
give ofiE their own juice. 

Diy Pack Canning 

Dry pack canning is the newest form of putting up vege- 
tables and fruits for winter use. The method is recognized 
as the best by the State colleges that teach domestic eco- 
nomy and their teachers show the work to be easy for the 
housekeeper to do and much more economical than the 
old way. 

Tomatoes shotdd first have scalding water turned over 
them and their skins removed. Then plunge them in cold 
water, and pack them by hand in the jars, as many as can 
be crowded in, add one level teaspoon of salt to each quart 
jar; place the rubber and cap in position, partially seal, but 
not tight, then set the cans in the hot water bath outfit 
and leave them there twenty-two minutes, the water boiling 
around them. Remove the jars, tighten the covers, and in- 
vert them to test the joint while they cool. The next morn- 
ing tighten the covers if they need it; or, if it is possible to 
do so and for especial stewing use, select a few of the best 



Preserving and PicKlin|( 527 

looking jars and wrap them in paper before stowing them 
away, so that they will retain their brilliant coloring. 

Even if the jar is not full after the tomatoes are done, it 
will not affect their keeping in the slightest degree, as no 
air has been allowed to enter the jar from the moment they 
were cooked. The most practical hot water bath outfit is 
the oblong tin water kettle having the rack inside which 
holds eight jars and which is equipped with a tight-fitting 
cover. 

Three important rules are impressed upon the student of 
this new method of canning and there are three good reasons 
for each rule. The first reasons are for "scalding" the 
products: first, to loosen the skins; second, to eliminate 
acid and acrid flavors; and third, to start the flow of the 
coloring matter which is later arrested by the cold dip. 
The next reason has to do with the "blanching": first, 
to eliminate acids and acrid flavors; second, to reduce the 
bulk of vegetable greens ; third, to make it unnecessary to use 
the exhaust period and intermittent process. "Cold dip- 
ping" is done, first, to harden the pulp under the skin and 
thus permit the removal of the skin without injury to the 
pulp; second, to coagulate the coloring matter and make it 
harder to dissolve; third, to make it easier to handle the 
products in packing. 

The claim is made that fruit and vegetables done after this 
method are more true to nature in color, flavor, and texture, 
and more natural in appearance than those done under the 
old ways. Peaches are put eight or ten at a time into a 
double square of cheesecloth; in this they are lowered into 
the boiling water and allowed to blanch there for two or 
three minutes, then they are removed by the cheesecloth, 
drained a minute, plunged into cold water for a moment, 
then their skins and stones are removed, after which they 
are packed into the jars, the rubber is put in place, and the 
boiling syrup, made in the proportion of two cups of sugar to 
one of water, which has boiled for two minutes before being 
used, is turned into the jars, filling them to overflowing. 



528 Preserving and PicKlin^ 

The cover is then quickly screwed into place, but not firmly 
screwed down. Next the jars are set into the water bath, 
where the boiling water should be kept high enough to cover 
the lower three quarters of the jars, and here they are 
allowed to stay for twelve minutes. They are then removed, 
the covers tightened as much as possible, and the jars in- 
verted to cool and test the joint. 

String beans, after being washed carefully, strung and 
cut into convenient lengths, should be allowed to blanch 
four minutes, then be cold dipped. Pack them in the jar, 
adding a level teaspoon of salt to a quart, fill the jar 
with boiling water, partly seal and place in the water bath, 
and allow them to stay there for ninety minutes. 

Other vegetables may be done in similar proportions, 
leaving them in the water same time it would take to cook. 

A number of the preserving outfits of European make 
are temporarily out of the market, so Americans will have 
to depend on some of the old reliable methods and bring 
them up to date as far as possible. The cooking can be 
done in the pint jars by utilizing the double roasting pans 
and the steam cookers. Clean jars, new rubbers, wide- 
mouthed bottles, porcelain jam pots and paper jelly glasses 
or cups, paraffin, sealing-wax, labels, new dieesedoth jelly 
bags, which are better than the old flannel bags, new wooden 
spoons, fresh cheesecloth squares to save the towels, and 
paper dishcloths, should all be ready. Vinegar, fresh spices, 
and herbs should be ready also. The new rubber preserving 
aprons are excellent to wear while dealing with the fruit. 

One thing to remember in pickling or preserving is that the 
best fruits or vegetables, ripe but not overripe, carefully 
washed before preparing, are the only kind there is any 
excuse for preserving. Many women feel that it is better 
economy to prepare the fruits one day, put them away in a 
cold place well covered, and start the actual preserving 
early the next morning. This is practical, especially for 
jam or jelly or any of the pickles, but it is not a wise method 
where whole fruit is to be preserved. 



Preserving and PicKlin^ 5^9 



Jellies made by the cold uncooked process are more 
delicate in flavor, but do not keep as well. While they 
are jelling in the sun the ttunblers must be covered with a 
sheet of glass. 

All preserve juice and skimmings may be turned into the 
vinegar barrel or jug, as it forms the much to be desired 
''mother," which clears and makes the vinegar fine. Any 
quantity of juice left may also be used for the fruit vinegars, 
which make such refreshing summer drinks. 

The large-seeded fruits make the choicest jams, but many 
people do not object to the seeds in currants, and other small- 
seeded berries, as their flavor is excellent. For the fruit 
jellies many cooks prefer to squeeze the fruit cold, rather 
than the older and more tiresome way of heating it and let- 
ting it drain through the jelly bag. 

Just a word to the housekeeper to remind her while 
she is putting up the winter's stock of jams and jellies not to 
forget the little individual paper jelly cups for the children's 
school lunches. The jellies are invaluable for the purpose 
and perfectly wholesome when made at home. One word as 
to jams: it will be found that jams made of the large rather 
than the seedy fruit will be better liked by the children, who 
at this particular stage may be losing and gaining teeth, 
and the seeds make infinite trouble and are often the cause 
of many painful toothaches. Cherry, strawberry, apricot, 
peach, and plum jam; raspberry, currant, blackberry, apple, 
grape, and quince jelly will furnish an excellent variety. 

The experienced housekeeper may not need a hint as to 
the necessity of looking after her preserved fruit for a while 
after it is stored away to watch for any signs of its "work- 
ing " but to the new housekeeper the hint may be a welcome 
word of warning. 

Pears, if taken at the very moment they begin to "work," 
may be saved by putting them into the preserving kettle 
and boiling down and skimming off the scum that rises to 
the top, and canning again. 

Tomatoes may require the same treatment. Other fruits 
34 



53^ Preserving and PicKlin^ 

may respond to the treatment, but it is usually best to add 
some more sugar. 

Sometimes if very hot weather comes after the jellies are 
done up, they have to undergo another boiling if they seem 
inclined to melt, but do not scorch them or boil them so 
that they are too hard or firm when set again. 

Among preserving conveniences the fruit funnels should 
not be overlooked ; they are bowl-shaped with a wide opening 
that allows the fruit to go through into the jars without 
breaking it in pieces. 

PLUMS 

Among the fall fruits there are none more welcome than 
the various members of the pltun family. 

The Damson or Damascene pltmi takes its name from 
Damascus, where it grows in perfection and whence it was 
first made known to us. The greengage pltmi is called 
after the Gage family, who first brought it to England from 
the Monastery of the Chartreuse at Paris. 

The Orleans pltmi is the big yellow one flecked with red 
and was an original French production. The big blue ones 
with the filmy white clouds are the Dutch plums. 

There is a little plum that is known as the beach plum, for 
it grows on a rather scrubby bush at the edge of the seashore 
sand, which makes good jam, jelly or preserve. 

In making the preserves of plums the pound of sugar to 
the pound of fruit is the only sure recipe to follow. If the 
fruit is pricked with a needle in several places it will not 
burst or lose its skin, and thus give an uninviting look to 
the preserves. 

Damson Cheese 

Wash and pick the stalks from six pounds of damson plums, 
then put them in the preserving pan, barely covering them 
with water. Simmer gently over the fire until they are quite 
soft, stirring them occasionally ; when soft beat them through 



Preserving and PicKlin^ 531 

a coarse sieve, put the pulp and juice into the preserving 
kettle, adding their weight in sugar weighed before cooking, 
and simmer well for two hours, skimming carefully; then 
draw to a hotter part of the stove and boil a half hour 
more, briskly stirring and watching carefully until it looks 
firm enough to jell down when cold, and it seems hard on 
the spoon. Turn the cheese at once into porcelain jam 
pots or earthenware molds. When cold, cover down 
with an oiled 'paper, then a tissue paper that has been 
brushed on either side with white of egg, label, and store 
away. 

Plum Paste 

Wash and weigh two pounds of plums and the same 
amount of sugar, put a cup of water on the pltuns and let 
them simmer and melt; cook until all are soft, then put 
through a sieve, add the sugar, boil twenty minutes, watch* 
ing the paste carefully, then spread on a tin to dry. When 
dry cut in squares and dust with powdered sugar, then 
pack in a tin box. 

Greengage Sweetmeats 

To every pound of fruit allow one pound of sugar and a 
quarter pint of water. Select perfect fruit not fully ripe 
and leave the stalks on. Make a syrup of the water and 
sugar and when ready put in the fruit and boil ten minutes, 
then remove fruit with a skimmer and set aside; next day 
heat the syrup and when hot put in the fruit and simmer 
three minutes, then drain it. Repeat this process for six, 
days; on the last day put the plums on a fine sieve and place 
them in a cooling oven to dry; when dry enough pack them 
in a box with wax paper between the layers. These sweet- 
meats are good to serve at afternoon functions with ice 
cream or for decorating cakes or puddings. 



532 Preserving and FicKlin^ 

QUINCES 

For quince preserves select twelve smooth quinces, wash 
and wipe the fuzz off carefully, pare, core, and quarter 
them, throwing them into two quarts of cold water to keep 
them from turning black. Put the peelings into one quart 
of water with seeds and cores. Let the quinces come to a 
boil and cook until tender when tried with a straw; remove 
carefully to a bowl, add three pints of sugar, one clove, 
and one thin slice of lemon to the juice, boil and reduce 
to nearly one half. Put in the quinces and boil gently for 
five minutes, then seal in jars. 

Whatever remains add with two or three smaller quinces 
to the parings and let them simmer for an hour; remove 
carefully, strain, and to every pint of juice add three 
quarters of a pound of sugar, boil the jelly about twenty 
minutes or until it is the right consistency when tried on 
a cold plate. Turn into jelly glasses and cover in the usual 
way when cold and set. 

Quince Jam 

Quince jam is made by following the same formula as is 
used for the preserves, except the sugar is added at once and 
the whole mixture cooked slowly for an hour or more. It 
must be carefully watched, for any heavy sweet mixture 
bums readily. It may be packed away in stone crocks for 
winter use, with the usual protection of brandy paper of 
parafine covering. 

Quince Mannalade 

Slice the quinces into the preserving kettle; add enough 
dear water to float them, and boil until reduced to a pulp, 
stirring them carefully with a wooden spoon. When done 
strain through a fine sieve, and add three quarters of a 
pound of sugar to each pound of pulp; then boil carefully 
to the consistency of marmalade, and store away in jars» 



Preserving and PicKlin^ 533 

first testing on a plate to see if it is ready to jell. When 
cold in the jars, cover down. 

Rhubarb and Orange Jam 

Peel one dozen ripe oranges, remove the white pith and 
the seeds, slice the pulp into a preserving pan, add the rind 
of half the oranges cut into strips and two pounds of sugar. 
Peel and cut fine three bunches of rhubarb; let the oranges 
and sugar melt together; pour boiling water on the rhubarb 
and let it stand for ten minutes, drain and add the rhubarb 
to the orange. Cook over an even fire, stirring carefully 
with a wooden spoon, until the jam is done; remove all the 
scima as it rises; when partially cool turn the jam into little 
pots and when thoroughly cold oovar down. 

For Blueberry Pie 

If one goes in for pie fillings, don't forget in the blue- 
berry season to do up some of the big white clouded seedless 
variety for the purpose, as they are the finest that come to 
this market, and their season is rather short. 

Tangerine Preserves 

Remove the skins from three dozen tangerines, separate 
the segments, pulling away all the white skin, and add to it 
the pulp of one large grapefruit. Cut the skins fine and boil 
until tender, then drain and add to the uncooked fruit, add- 
ing as much sugar as there is pulp and skin. Cook for half 
an hour and serve cold. 

Grapefruit Marmalade 

Two grapefruit, two oranges, two lemons, sugar, water. 
Time: Preparation, two days; cooking, one hour and a 
half, about. Cut fruit in quarters; remove seeds, and slice 
— ^through pulp and rind — ^in very thin slices. Use a small 
board and a very sharp knife. Fruit may be put through 
food-chopper if preferred, but this is not so good. To each 



534 Preserving and PicKlin^ 

pound of frtdt add three pints of water. • Place in an enamel 
or earthen bowl, and let stand for twenty-four hours. Next 
boil gently until rind is tender. Let stand again for twenty- 
four hours. To each pound add one pound of sugar and 
cook slowly until thick and dear. Try by chilling a little 
on a saucer. Do not overcook. Pour into sterilized glasses 
or jars, and seal. 

Fig Jam 

Take two pounds of loose figs, wash, and boil them until 
tender. When done, chop fine and add one pound of sugar, 
juice of one lemon, a small cup of spiced vanilla syrup, and a 
half cup of honey. Let boil, stirring carefully until it begins 
to jell when tried on a cold plate. Turn into small jars. 

Preserved Pumpkin 

Cut, pare, and seed one ripe ptunpkin, weigh it, and cut it 
into small pieces. In a deep dish put alternate layers of 
pumpkin and of sugar, using as many pounds of sugar as 
there is pumpkin. Pour one gill of lemon juice over the 
top and let stand for two days. Then boil, adding a half ' 
pint of water to each three pounds; when the pumpkin is 
tender turn all back into the crock and let stand for a 
few days, then strain off the juice, add a lemon rind and 
a quarter pound of bruised ginger, and boil the juice down 
quite thick; skim well and turn it over the pumpkin. This 
will keep until used in a well covered crock. 

Preserved Green Ginger 

Soak the ginger for ten days, putting on fresh boiling 
water every morning and night; then scrape the outside oS 
with a sharp knife, boil it in water until it is quite soft, then 
cut it into thin slices. Make a syrup of a pound of sugar to 
a half pint of water, letting a small spice bag boil in it, 
and when dear add it to the ginger, boil all up together, 
skim, and put into a crock to cool. 



Preserving and PicKlin^ 535 

Preserved Cherries and Pecans 

To six pounds of ripe, well washed, and stoned cherries 
add four pounds of granulated sugar. When all is melted 
together let come to boiling point slowly and boil, skimming 
carefully, until the fruit is done. Have ready one pound of 
carefully shelled and halved pecans, stir them into the 
fruit, and boil down to the proper consistency, which is 
reached when the boiling is heavy and smothered. It can 
be judged by trying a little on a cold plate. It must be 
very carefully watched and stirred with a wooden spoon or 
paddle, as it is very apt to bum. When slightly cool it may 
be turned into a sun-warmed crock, and when cold covered 
with a linen doth and the crock cover and set away or 
it may be sealed in jars, hot, as in the case of the regular 
preserves. 

Almost any nuts except Brazil nuts or pine nuts may be 
used in this way with any of the seedless fruits, but those 
nuts having a skin, like hazel nuts and almonds, should be 
blanched and careftdly dried before being added to the 
preserves. 

Gooseberry Jelly 

Warm the fruit and squeeze the juice out. Add three 
quarters of a pound of sugar to a pint of the juice, and like 
all acid fruits it may require more than the proverbial twenty 
minutes to boil. Try it on a cold plate, however, to be sure. 
Jelly, when too stiff, is not inviting. 

Preserved Marrow 

To five pounds of marrow add five pounds of lump sugar, 
two ounces of green ginger, the rind and the juice of three 
lemons, and preserved ginger to taste. 

Cut the marrow in squares the size of a walnut, sprinkle 
slightly with salt, and let it stand for an hour. Drain off 
the salt and rinse with a little water. Next add the sugar 



53^ Preserving and Pi 

and let it stand until the sugar is dissolved. Then boil until 
the marrow is transparent, probably one hour. 

Stew the lemon rind and ginger in a little water tmtil it is 
sufficiently cooked; then shred the peel. Then put the peel, 
ginger, and lemon juice together and boil them with the 
marrow for fifteen minutes before taking up. The juice 
may be drained from the marrow and boiled gently for half 
an hotu*; then put the marrow back into the juice. 

The Ttttti-Fratti Jar 

May is the time to start the tutti-frutti jar, when the 
first good strawberries come and apricots are in the market. 
Use for the purpose a deep stone crock which has a tight- 
fitting cover. Put into it a pint of the best brandy, then 
add a cup of sugar to each cup of carefully washed and 
seeded fruit as the season progresses. The brandy is used 
as a preservative. 

After the strawberries, pitted cherries, and apricots have 
been added, put in a half pint more brandy, then a spice 
bag, tying a string to it so that it may be drawn out when 
desired. If it is left in all season it grows unsanitary. Black- 
berries, raspberries, currants, and gooseberries may be added 
if one does not object to the small seeds. K one does, a 
half cup of the juice of each with a quarter of a cup of sugar 
will give the flavor. 

Pineapples and peaches should be used freely, and one 
thinly sliced and seeded lemon must not be forgotten. 
In August add a cup of Jamaica nmi; then finish filling 
the jar with the late fruits. Stir carefully as each ingredi- 
ent is added, using a wooden spatula. When all have been 
added, put a heavy brandied cloth under the cover and set 
away in a cool place. 

From time to time stir the contents, and in October it 
may be well to add a little more brandy. This, however, 
depends on how the fruit has been keeping or how rapidly 
it is being used. When the best of the fruit has been 



Preserving and PicKlin^ 537 

used, strain the syrup, and use the fine fruit that is left in a 
pudding, and the syrup for sauces or punch. 

JELLIES AND JAMS FOR SUMMER 

(To be made and eaten during the warm weather) 

le Jelly 



Pare and dice four fresh sweet pineapples, add one pint 
of clear water, and let come slowly to boiling point; let stand 
at boiling point and gently simmer for half an hour, then 
cool slightly and strain. To each pint of the juice add three 
quarters of a pint of sugar, boil twenty minutes, skimming 
carefully, then turn into jelly glasses. This is good for a 
salad jelly, or with custard, as well as in cake or sand- 
wich filling. 

Apricot Jelly 

Wash and halve a four-pound box of apricots, place in a 
preserve kettle with a pint of water, let slowly melt, and then 
boil for twenty minutes. Strain through a white strainer so 
that the fruit may be used up in a pie, then strain the juice 
again so that it is clear, add three quarters of a pint of sugar 
to each pint of juice, boil twenty minutes, then fill the little 
tumblers. This is specially designed to serve with dessert 
dishes, to garnish ice cream, to serve with fruit salads, or as 
the center of custards with whipped cream. 

Giapefruit Jelly 

To three cups of grapefruit juice and pulp add two tea- 
spoons lemon juice, half a cup of sugar, one and a half cups 
of water, and a heaping tablespoon of gelatine. Put the 
gelatine and other ingredients into a saucepan, stir over the 
fire until they almost boil, then strain and add two table- 
spoons of sherry wine. Turn into a wet mold, let set and 
chill. Serve with whipped sweetened cream. 



r 



533 Preserving and FicKlin|( 

Prune Jelly 

Wash the prunes and soak them three hours in cold water, 
then put them into a small basin, add half a cup of water, 
cover tightly, and steam until soft. Remove the stones and 
place the prunes in a wet mold. Put one heaping table- 
spoon of gelatine into a saucepan, add one cup of water, one 
cup of sugar, one tablespoon of lemon juice, juice of two 
oranges, and stir over the fire until the gelatine dissolves, 
then strain over the prunes. Add a cup of sherry, set away 
to harden and chill, and serve with whipped sweetened 
cream. 

Mint JeUy 

Take a pint of freshly gathered mint leaves, wash, and add 
to them a quart of water and a cup of tarragon vinegar, two 
cups of sugar, a half saltspoon of paprika, and a teaspoon of 
salt; boil gently for twenty minutes. Add a half package 
of gelatine that has been standing in a little cold water, let 
all heat and melt, then strain carefully into little glasses to 
set. This is excellent to serve with cold meats, or to use in 
fresh cucumber salad with French dressing or mayonnaise. 

Rose Leaf Jam 

Gather a quantity of fresh red and pink rose leaves when 
they have unfolded after a recent shower and to every solid 
pint add a scant pint of sugar. To six pints of the leaves 
add one quart of distilled water, let all slowly heat and melt. 
When it reaches the boiling point, stir carefully and boil 
twenty minutes; turn into little jam pots and when cold 
cover down for use. This is good to serve with ice cream, 
for cake filling,** or for sandwiches. 

Strawberry Jam 

To six quarts of prime strawberries add five pounds of 
sugar, let melt slowly, then boil for a half hour and try on a 



Preserving and PicKlin^ 539 

cold plate. Let a spice bag boil with the jam but remove it 
when jam is done. Turn into little jam pots. An excellent 
dainty for a breakfast tray, with buttered toast or hot rolls. 

Canot Jam 

This jam is excellent to eat with cold meats and is not 
difficult to make. Scrape and boil one quart of carrots. 
When very tender, drain them and mash through a colander. 
Add to the pulp one pound of sugar, the juice of a lemon, a 
tablespoon of ginger syrup, and a pinch of cinnamon. Boil 
all together slowly, stirring carefully until it seems to jelly; 
then turn into small individual jam pots. 

JELLIES TO USB WITH FISH 

In serving fish, baked, broiled, or boiled, hot or cold, 
an appropriate savory jelly is always good with it, making 
an edible as well as an attractive garnish. A sweet or ordi- 
nary ready-made jelly is not suitable for the piupose, so it 
must be made the day before or early in the morning of the 
day on which it is to be used to give it time to harden. 

If the jellies are to be served as a garnish then place each 
little mold on a toasted crouton; then the hot platter will 
not melt it. If served as a separate portion it may be mold- 
ed in a large mold and helped by the spoonful. 

Jellies made for this purpose are not always dear like fruit 
jellies, for, in order to give a better flavor to the jelly, the 
principal ingredient is put through a pur^ sieve, which 
makes the jelly seem more solid and less delicate in appear- 
ance. But the flavor will make up for any other seeming 
lack. 

Tomato Jelly 

Take one can, or a pound and a half of fresh tomatoes, 
and put in a saucepan with three cups of water, a sliced onion, 
a stalk of celery, a bay leaf, two cloves, one tablespoon of 
ketchup, teaspoon of Worcestershire sauce, a saltspoon of pep- 



540 Preserving and PicKlin^ 

per, a teaspoon of salt, tablespoon of sugar, three heaping 
tablespoons of gelatine soaked in a little of the water, and the 
whites and shells of two eggs. Stir over the fire until the 
mixture boils, then cover and let it boil gently for eight 
minutes, then drain through a fine sieve. Pour boiling 
water through a jelly bag, then strain the jelly through it, 
add two or three drops of red coloring, and pour into wet 
molds. 

Asparagus Jelly 

Drain the water from one can of asparagus tips, add two 
and a half cups of water, stew until tender, then add the 
juice of one onion, tablespoon of sugar, juice of half a lemon, 
a saltspoon of pepper, a teaspoon of salt, a half saltspoon of 
celery salt, tablespoon of chutney syrup, and three table- 
spoons of gelatine powder that has been mixed with a little 
cold water. Stir all together until the gelatine is melted, 
then strain and mash through a pur^ sieve. Fill little wet 
molds and set away to chill. A bunch of fresh green as- 
paragus may be used instead if the tips are cut well back so 
only the tenderest is cooked. If the fish is to be served cold 
then each little jelly turned onto a toasted crouton may 
have a teaspoon of mayonnaise on top with an asparagus 
tip stuck in it or a spray of fresh watercress. 

Rhutwrb Jelly 

Put one and a half cups of sugar, half a lemon, and a 
cup of water in a saucepan and bring to boiling point. Then 
add three pounds of rhubarb cut fine, simmer gently for 
twenty minutes, then strain, add four heaping tablespoons 
of gelatine dissolved in a little boiling water; stir until all is 
smooth, then color a good red and pour into the molds. 

Fennel Jelly 

To four cups of water add one cup of sugar, three heaping 
tablespoons of gelatine wet in a little warm water, and the 



Preserving and PicKlin^ 541 

whites and shells of two eggs. Stir over a slow fire until it all 
melts and comes to the boiling point. Boil five minutes, 
adding a tablespoon of fennel seed (fresh if possible) and 
enough fennel flavoring to suit the taste; color a delicate 
green and turn into the wet molds. When serving put a 
Uttle mayonnaise on top and sprinkle with a little finely 
chopped pistachio nuts. If the jelly needs straining 
through the jelly bag do so before putting in the seeds 
and coloring. 

Cucumber Jelly 

Pare and remove seeds from four cucumbers and grate 
them, add four tablespoons of vinegar, half a cup of water, 
a teaspoon of salt, a saltspoon of pepper, teaspoon of onion 
juice, one heaping tablespoon of powdered gelatine, moist- 
ened with water; pour into a saucepan and stir over 
moderate heat until the gelatine has dissolved. When 
slightly cool add a few drops of green Breton coloring to 
make it delicate green and turn into the wet molds. At 
serving time each little jelly may be set on a crisp lettuce 
leaf and have a teaspoon of French dressing turned over it. 

Champagne Jelly 

Dissolve five heaping tablespoons of gelatine in four cups 
of water, add one and a half cups of sugar, a cup of sherry 
wine and a cup of champagne, two cloves, small stick of 
cinnamon, juice of a small grapefruit, whites and shells of 
two eggs. Stir until it boils, then allow it to boil gently four 
minutes, strain through a scalded jelly bag, color a delicate 
pink, and turn into the wet molds. 

Mint Julep or Crdme de Menthe Jelly 

Take one ounce of powdered agar (flakes or powder), to be 
procured at any drug store at about twenty-five cents an 
ounce, add to it one and a half quarts of water and five 
pounds and four otmces of sugar. Let it come to a boil. 



54^ Preserving and PicKlin^ 

per, a teaspoon of salt, tablespoon of sugar, three heaping 
tablespoons of gelatine soaked in a little of the water, and the 
whites and shells of two eggs. Stir over the fire until the 
mixture boils, then cover and let it boil gently for eight 
minutes, then drain through a fine sieve. Pour boiling 
water through a jelly bag, then strain the jelly through it, 
add two or three drops of red coloring, and pour into wet 
molds. 

Asparagus Jelly 

Drain the water from one can of asparagus tips, add two 
and a half cups of water, stew until tender, then add the 
juice of one onion, tablespoon of sugar, juice of half a lemon, 
a saltspoon of pepper, a teaspoon of salt, a half saltspoon of 
celery salt, tablespoon of chutney syrup, and three table- 
spoons of gelatine powder that has been mixed with a little 
cold water. Stir all together until the gelatine is melted, 
then strain and mash through a purfe sieve. Fill little wet 
molds and set away to chill. A bunch of fresh green as- 
paragus may be used instead if the tips are cut well back so 
only the tenderest is cooked. If the fish is to be served cold 
then each little jelly turned onto a toasted crouton may 
have a teaspoon of mayonnaise on top with an asparagus 
tip stuck in it or a spray of fresh watercress. 

Rhubarb Jelly 

Put one and a half cups of sugar, half a lemon, and a 
cup of water in a saucepan and bring to boiling point. Then 
add three pounds of rhubarb cut fine, simmer gently for 
twenty minutes, then strain, add four heaping tablespoons 
of gelatine dissolved in a little boiling water; stir until all is 
smooth, then color a good red and potir into the molds. 

Fennel Jelly 

To four cups of water add one cup of sugar, three heaping 
tablespoons of gelatine wet in a little warm water, and the 



Preserving and FicKlin^ 541 

whites and shells of two eggs. Stir over a slow fire until it all 
melts and comes to the boiling point. Boil five minutes, 
adding a tablespoon of fennel seed (fresh if possible) and 
enough fennel flavoring to suit the taste; color a delicate 
green and turn into the wet molds. When serving put a 
little mayonnaise on top and sprinkle with a little finely 
chopped pistachio nuts. If the jelly needs straining 
through the jelly bag do so before putting in the seeds 
and coloring. 

Cucumber Jelly 

Pare and remove seeds from four cucumbers and grate 
them, add four tablespoons of vinegar, half a cup of water, 
a teaspoon of salt, a saltspoon of pepper, teaspoon of onion 
juice, one heaping tablespoon of powdered gelatine, moist- 
ened with water; pour into a saucepan and stir over 
moderate heat until the gelatine has dissolved. When 
slightly cool add a few drops of green Breton coloring to 
make it delicate green and turn into the wet molds. At 
serving time each little jelly may be set on a crisp lettuce 
leaf and have a teaspoon of French dressing turned over it. 

Champagne Jelly 

Dissolve five heaping tablespoons of gelatine in four cups 
of water, add one and a half cups of sugar, a cup of sherry 
wine and a cup of champagne, two cloves, small stick of 
cinnamon, juice of a small grapefruit, whites and shells of 
two eggs. Stir until it boils, then allow it to boil gently four 
minutes, strain through a scalded jelly bag, color a delicate 
pink, and turn into the wet molds. 

Mint Julep or Crime de Mentha Jelly 

Take one ounce of powdered agar (flakes or powder), to be 
procured at any drug store at about twenty-five cents an 
ounce, add to it one and a half quarts of water and five 
pounds and four otmces of sugar. Let it come to a boil. 



54^ Preservinf^ and PicKlin|( 

skim carefully, and test on a cold plate. It will require 
boiling from fifteen to twenty minutes, according to the 
atmosphere. When finished remove from the fire and add 
cr&ne de menthe to taste. Pour into the jelly tumblers, 
and when cold cover in the usual way. 

Proceed in the same way for the mint julep jelly, but 
bruise enough mint leaves, cleanly washed, to make one 
cup, and let them marinate in one cup of hot brandy with 
three cloves for one hour. After the jelly has boiled fifteen 
nunutes, strain the brandy into the mixture, and let it boil 
for five minutes with the jelly, skimming carefully. When 
cold cover the tumblers in the usual way. 

SOME PICKLING IDEAS AND RECIPES 

(What to do and when to do it to obtain the best conserving 

results) 

There are in the art of pickling a few general rules to heed 
if the best results are to follow the housewife's efforts. 
First, the articles to be pickled must be the best that the 
market affords and taken at the season of their prime. 
The utensils used for vinegar boiling should be of the heavy 
granite ware, porcelain-lined ware or, better still, the earthen 
or stone pipkin. 

Wooden forks and spoons and silver knives only should 
be used in the preparation of pickle material. Glass jars, 
bottles or crocks are the only things to store away the 
pickles in. 

Cider, wine, and tarragon vinegars are the best to use. 
In the closet and ready for use before the day of pickling is 
at hand shotdd be fresh spices, both whole and ground; 
mustard seed, sweet herbs, peppers, whole and ground; 
salt, sugar, brown and white; ginger root and any of the 
well known pickle colorings if they are liked. Bottles, jars, 
labels, sealing wax, and wax paper must be at hand. Then 
the cook is ready to go ahead. 



Preserving and PicKlin^ 543 

Always remember that a bright sunny day is by far the 
best for pickle making, as the atmosphere has a great deal 
to do with the keeping properties of conserves. 

To Make a Spice Bag 

In a square of clean linen doth place twelve cloves, one 
stick of broken cinnamon, a half teaspoon of mustard seed, 
the same amount of celery seed, a broken blade of mace, a 
quarter of a crushed nutmeg, and a small piece of dried 
lemon peel. Tie the cloth into a bag, leaving a long string 
so that it may be dropped into a pot and pulled out again 
at will. 



Quick Pi 

Select fifty little cucumbers of two inches in length and 
uniform in size, wash, and cover them with cold water to 
which a generous handful of salt has been added; cover and 
let stand for twelve hours, wash and pack in a crock. Boil 
as much cider vinegar as will cover them, adding a spicebag 
and a small pepper; let boil five minutes, then turn over the 
pickles and cover tightly. When cold remove the pepper 
but let the spice bag remain for a week or so. In two days 
or even before, they are ready for use. 

Pickled Surprise 

Boil twelve fresh eggs hard and remove the shells. Cut 
them lengthwise and remove the yolks. Boil six small 
beets for thirty minutes, then skin and chop them with the 
egg yolks. Add the juice of one onion, a teaspoon of salt, 
and a saltspoon of pepper. Fill the egg whites with the 
mixture and tie together with kitchen tape, then pack into 
a stone crock. Boil one pint of vinegar with a tablespoon 
of sugar and a tiny spice bag five minutes and pour over 
the eggs. These will be ready for use in twenty-four 
hours. 



544 Preserving and PicKlin^ 

Nasturtitixn Pickles 

The pods are ripe from the end of July imtfl the end of 
August. Gather them on a dry day, put them in a dry glass 
bottle after wiping them carefully. Fill each bottle with 
vinegar, six peppercorns, and one ounce of salt. When 
the bottle is filled, cork and seal tightly and let stand three 
months before using. 

Ladies' Delight Pickle 

Put together eight ounces each of chopped onions, pared, 
cored, and chopped apples, two ounces of chopped chillies or 
sweet peppers, and place them in a jar. Boil one pint of 
white vinegar, adding a large spoon of salt. Pour this over 
the ingredients named and when quite cold, bottle. 

Pickled Cherries 

Stem four pounds of cherries, wash, and put them in a 
stone crock. Heat two quarts of vinegar with two pounds 
of sugar and a spice bag, boil up five minutes, and skim; 
then pour over the cherries and let them stand covered a 
week. Drain off the sjrrup and boil it five minutes more, 
then turn it back over the cherries and when cold remove 
the spice bag and cover down tightly. 

Ripe Tomato Soy 

Wash, pare, and slice one peck of ripe firm tomatoes. 
Put them into the kettle with eight thinly sliced onions, and 
a cup of salt. Let them stand twenty-four hours, then 
drain them. Put them back into the kettle and add two 
quarts of vinegar, one tablespoon each of groimd mustard, 
ginger, cloves, allspice, and a teaspoon of cayenne pepper. 
Cook for two and a half hours, then add two pounds of sugar 
and three quarters of a pound of white mustard seed; allow 
it to boil for a half hotir longer, then turn into a crock to 
cool. 



Preserving and PicKlin^ 545 

Tomato Chutney 

Wash and chop one and a half pounds of ripe, firm to- 
matoes with a potmd and three quarters of pared, cored 
tart apples and a pound and a half of stoned raisins. Put 
in a kettle with a pound and a half of sugar, two ounces 
of chopped onion, four ounces of salt, and a saltspoon of 
cayenne pepper. Add three pints of dder vinegar and one 
of tarragon, boil for three hours, stirring often, and when 
done bottle and seal. This makes an excellent sauce to 
use with cold meat. 

Pickled Cauliflowers 

Select white, full heads of cauliflower, wash and separate 
the sprays, lay on flat plates and sprinkle with salt and let 
stand for three dajrs to draw the water out of them; then 
pack them in a crock and immerse in boiling water and let 
stand overnight. Wash and drain and pack into glass jars, 
putting three cloves and a small red pepper in each jar and 
covering with vinegar. Rinsed, these make a delightful 
winter salad. They may also be treated for sweet pickling 
like the watermelon rind. 

Pickled Watermelon Rind 

Muskmelon and the citron may be treated in the same 
way as this popular sweet pickle. Cut the fruit into good 
serving size, pack in a stone crock, and pour over it enough 
scalding vinegar to cover it; next morning heat the vinegar 
again and let stand until cold; then heat once more. Weigh 
the fruit and to every five pounds of fruit add three of sugar ; 
cloves, cinnamon, and allspice may be tied in a little bag 
and dropped in with a quart of vinegar. Let all boil to- 
gether until the fruit is tender; then strain out the fruit 
and boil down the syrup to one half the quantity. Put 
the fruit back to heat a minute, then turn into a crock or 
wide-mouthed bottle. 

35 



54^ Preserving and PicKlin^ 

Sweet Pickled Peppers 

Take seven pounds of ripe red peppers, wash and halve 
them, and remove the stem end with the seed cone. Put 
four pounds of sugar, one quart of vinegar, two ounces 
each of cinnamon and cloves, one thinly sliced lemon, two 
buds of garlic, and a small piece of green ginger root into the 
kettle and boil it for five minutes and then put in the pep- 
pers. When the peppers are tender, remove them and boil 
down the sjniip until it is rich; remove the garlic and the 
ginger, put back the peppers and boil up once, and they are 
ready to put into the crock to cool. If a stalk of celery 
is allowed to boil while the peppers boil, and is removed 
when the garlic is, it adds a delicious flavor to the pickle. 

Banana Sweet Pickle 

This is a good sweet pickle to serve with cold meats. It 
is much used by the Cubans in Havana, but is a strange 
dish to northerners. Make a very thick syrup of two cups 
of sugar and a half cup of water, add to it three tablespoons 
of vinegar, cloves, allspice, and cinnamon to taste. While 
the syrup is hot pour it over a half dozen ripe bananas that 
have been sliced crosswise. Let the pickle stand several 
hours before serving. 

Sweet Pickled Peaches 

To seven potmds of peaches allow three and three quar- 
ter potmds of sugar, one quart vinegar, two ounces of cloves, 
and two ounces of stick cinnamon. Boil the sugar and the 
vinegar with several sticks of the cinnamon for five minutes, 
then put in the peaches. When they are cooked try them 
with a straw, take them out and boil the synip down to one 
half the quantity, replace the fruit and let it heat through 
afi:ain, but not boil. Two or three cloves may be put into 
the boiling vinegar, but the rest tie in a little linen bag 
and throw into the crock, and after a few weeks remove, 



Preserving and PicKlin^ 547 

as they get slimy and turn the fruit dark. Put a little of 
the cinnamon loose, however, in the crock. 

Chili Sauce 

Chop twenty-five onions, fifty ripe tomatoes, twelve green 
peppers, a bunch of celery, and a few tarragon leaves very 
fine; add two quarts of vinegar, three cups of sugar, one 
tablespoon of allspice, one of cloves, one of cinnamon, one of 
mace, and three tablespoons of salt. Boil for two and one 
half hours; then let cool, taste, and add any more flavor 
required. Heat to boiling point once more to assimilate 
the flavor, then put in stone crock and cover. It must be 
carefully watched and stirred with a wooden spoon, for it 
is thick and heavy and likely to btim. 

Southern Pickle 

Wash and chop fine without paring eight pounds of green 
tomatoes. Put in a kettle and boil an hour and a half. 
Add three pounds of granulated sugar and boil an hour and 
a half longer, stirring often, so it does not bum. Then 
add one quart of vinegar, one teaspoon each of ground 
cinnamon, mace, and cloves, and boil down for twenty 
minutes; then bottle it and seal carefully. 

Tomato Chowchow 

Peel and cut fine six large, ripe tomatoes. Chop one 
onion fine, add it to the tomato with a chopped green pepper, 
one tablespoon of salt, two of brown sugar, and two cups 
of vinegar. Stew gently for one hour, stirring careftilly 
so as not to break the tomato too fine. Put away in a stone 
crock well covered. 

Green Tomato Mincemeat 

Wash and chop fine one peck of green tomatoes. Drain 
them free from all water, and put them into the preserving 



54^ Preserving and PicKlin^ 

kettle with six pounds of brown sugar; boil for four hours. 
Then add three pounds of stoned and chopped raisins, one 
pound chopped dates, two tablespoons of cinnamon, one 
tablespoon of allspice, one ounce of cloves, half of a grated 
nutmeg, and a level tablespoon of salt. Boil all together for 
a half hour, stirring thoroughly; then seal hot in jars. This 
makes delicious winter pies. 

Sweet Pickled Vegetable Marrow 

Select four or five vegetable marrows, pare, halve, and 
remove the seeds; cut them in eight or ten pieces each, put 
in a preserving kettle, and cover with fair water; boil until 
tender enough to pierce with a splint, then remove from the 
fire and drain. Make a syrup of two quarts of vinegar, two 
poimds of brown sugar, two ounces of cloves and two oimces 
of stick cinnamon, two smooth thinly sliced lemons with the 
seeds removed, and half a vanilla bean. Boil the syrup 
for ten minutes, then add the marrow, and cook for ten 
minutes, skimming carefully. If the syrup is not thick 
enough, remove the marrow and cook it down a little bit 
more; then turn it over the marrow in a crock. When cold 
cover and set away. 

Spanish Pickle 

Select, wash, and cut the stem end from fifty ripe, firm 
tomatoes; wash and remove the seeds from twelve green 
peppers; pare twenty-five red onions, break apart and wash 
one big bunch of celery; then chop all fiine. Add two 
pounds of brown sugar, four quarts of vinegar, one table- 
spoon each of allspice, cloves, cinnamon, and mace, two 
tablespoons of salt, a half teaspoon of cayenne pepper, and 
one bud of garlic chopped fine with six shalots and the 
leaves from six stalks of tarragon. Boil evenly for two 
hours, stirring carefully, for as it gets boiled down thick it 
catches easily. If not quite thick enough boil another 



Preserving and PicKlin|( 549 

half hour; if it is too thick add a small quantity of 
vinegar and boil at least five minutes after it has been 
added. When the pickle is cold put away in a crock 
with a linen doth over it; then dose down the cover and 
keep in a cool dry place. This is delidous with cold 
meats. 

Sweet Pickled Quinces 

Wipe with a soft doth, pare, core, and quarter three dozen 
quinces; put them in the preserving kettle, cover them with 
fair water, and 'boil evenly until they are tender when a 
broom splint is stuck into them. Remove, drain, and set 
aside while making the syrup. For this take two quarts of 
good vinegar, three pounds of sugar, two otmces of whole 
doves, and two ounces of fresh stick cinnamon, broken into 
two-inch lengths. Boil for ten minutes, skimming carefully, 
then add the quinces and boil for five minutes; then remove 
them with a skimmer and put them into an enamel sieve 
to drain. Boil the syrup down a little, adding what has 
drained from the fruit and a small piece of green ginger that 
has been washed dean; ttim the fruit into a dean dry crock 
and turn the syrup over it. When cold, cover and set away 
in a cool place. In handling the fruit be careful not to 
break the pieces or the pickle will not look inviting when 
served. 

Tomato Figs 

Take six pounds of sugar and sixteen pounds of firm ripe 
tomatoes which must be scalded to remove their skins. Put 
them in a preserving kettle and cook them in their own juice 
until the sugar penetrates and they are darified ; then remove 
them from the syrup and spread them on dishes, flattening 
each tomato slightly, and set them in the sun to dry. Occa- 
sionally add a small amount of syrup while they are drying. 
When they are dried pack them down in boxes, sprinkling 
over each layer a little powdered sugar. The box must be 



550 Preserving and FicKlin^ 

lined with waxed paper. Tin, wooden, or even paper boxes 
will do as long as they are tight. Tomatoes fixed in this 
manner will make a tempting winter conserve and be an 
unusual addition to the winter menu. 

Mustard Pickle 

Let stand in a light brine overnight (a handful of salt to 
two quarts of water) one quart each of coarsely chopped 
green tomatoes, large cucimibers cut in inch length pieces, 
small cucumbers whole, silver-skinned onions pared, two red 
peppers chopped fine, and one large cauliflower broken into 
sprays. In the morning drain well and scald, then lay in a 
crock and pour over the following: two cups of brown sugar, 
one cup of flour, six tablespoons of dry mustard, one table- 
spoon of tumeric, . one and a half tablespoons of salt, and 
blend all with two quarts of heated vinegar. Stir con- 
stantly over a moderate heat until the mixture thickens, 
then ttim it over the pickles, allowing them to cool. When 
cold cover down closely. 

SUMMER SALAD VINEGARS 

To vary the flavoring of the French dressing so poptdar 
and generally used for sunmier salads, one should follow 
the English fashion of making a stock of flavored vinegars. 
They are simple to make, and add a flavoring which is 
impossible to get in any other way in the dressing used 
from day to day. 

Garlic or Shalot Vinegar 

The garlic vinegar is made by putting into a quart of 
white vinegar two ounces of minced garlic. The shalot 
vinegar is made in the same way, using two oimces of minced 
shalot. After standing three weeks, these vinegars, if 
not used by that time, may be strained and turned back into 
the bottle, lest they become too strongly flavored. 



Preserving and PioKlin^ 55 1 

Horseradish Vinegar 

Take tliree otinces of freshly scraped horseradish, a 
saltspoon of cayenne pepper, one ounce of finely chopped 
shalots, and add them to a quart of good vinegar. Pour 
into a dean bottle, cork tightly, and label. Strain as it is 
used. 

Cress or Celery Vinegar 

To one quart of fresh dder vinegar add a half ounce of 
crushed cress seed, with a half saltspoon of cayenne pepper. 
If it is desired to make this stronger, then three tablespoons 
of diopped, fresh cress may be put into the vinegar first 
and brought to boiling point, then carefully strained out, 
and when the vinegar is cold the seed may be added and 
it may be bottled. The celery seed is used in the same way 
and the same idea may be carried out with the fresh celery 
but it is not as good as to use only the seed, for without 
it is kept in a cold place and used soon after being made it is 
apt to ferment. 

Chili l^egar 

Put fifty carefully washed and bruised little sweet pep- 
pers into a quart of the finest vinegar; let them stand one 
month, then strain, put in one fresh pepper and a pinch of 
cayenne, and bottle again for use. 

Sweet Spiced Vinegar 

To a quart and a pint of dder vinegar add one pound of 
brown sugar, a thinly sliced lemon, a teaspoon of doves, a 
handful of broken dnnamon sticks, a tiny piece of green 
ginger, carefully washed; turn into a porcelain-lined kettle, 
and when melted together boil ten minutes, skimming care- 
fully; simmer slowly five minutes, remove from the fire, 
and when cold bottle and cork. This is excellent to add 



552 Preserving and Pichlintf 

to almost any of the different salads where fruit is used, but 
of course in a small quantity. 

Beet, tarragon, mint, and fennel vinegar are all wdl 
known and are nice to have on the pantry shelf. 

RECIPES FOR HOME-MADE KETCHUPS 

With all the good condiments that are offered in the shops 
it seems as though one need not bother with making them 
at home, but on the other hand if one has a productive 
kitchen garden or orchard, the materials are ripe and in 
quantity and it is wanton waste not to use them. The 
subturban housewife has more time to do these things than 
the city dweller and also more room to make and store them 
in; besides, doing a great deal of entertaining, she uses 
more things of this sort. 

Good ketchups are always acceptable with cold meats or 
fish, and it is wise to have several kinds stowed away to 
choose from. 

Tomato Ketchup 

Wash one peck of ripe, firm tomatoes and cut off the stem 
end; place in a porcelain kettle with one pint of cold water 
and cook until they are very soft, then strain first through a 
colander, then through a sieve, Return to the kettle and add 
one tablespoon of salt, one of ground pepper, one of ground 
cloves, one teaspoon of cayenne pepper, a quarter pound of 
dry mustard, and a tablespoon of celery seed tied in a muslin 
bag. Boil for four hours, stirring occasionally. The last 
hour when it is thick stir almost constantly, then turn into 
a crock and when perfectly cold add one pint of strong vine- 
gar, remove the celery seed, stir, bottle, cork, and seal. 
Keep in a cool, dark, and dry place. 

Mushroom Ketchup 

Choose one peck of freshly picked mushroom fiaps that 
have been gathered on a dry day. Wash them carefully and 



Preserving and PicKlin|( 553 

place a layer in a deep crock, sprinkle salt on them, then 
another layer of mushrooms, and so on until they are all 
used. Let them stand a few hours, then break them with 
the hands and put in a cool place for three days, occasionally 
stirring and mashing them to extract as much juice as pos- 
sible. Then meastu^ the quantity of liquor without drain- 
ing off the mushrooms and add to each quart a half ounce of 
ground ginger, a half ounce of allspice, a quarter ounce of 
cayenne pepper, and two blades of mace. Put all into a jar 
or jars, set into boiling water and let boil for three hours. 
Turn into a porcelain kettle and let simmer for a half hour, 
turn into a jug and let stand overnight, then pour it off 
into another jug, strain, and pour into very dean dry bottles. 
All this is done to leave the sediment, so do not squeeze 
or press the mushrooms. Cork and seal. It should be 
looked at occasionally and if it is not keeping well remove 
and boil over, adding a few whole peppercorns. 

Grape Ketchup 

Select, wash, and stem five pounds of ripe Isabella grapes, 
place them in the kettle with a pint of cold water, let heat 
slowly, then boil until the grapes are done; strain through 
a colander and after the kettle is rinsed rettim the juice 
to it and add one pint of vinegar, two and a half pounds of 
sugar, one teaspoon each of pepper, cinnamon, cloves, all- 
spice, and a half teaspoon of salt. Boil until slightly thick- 
ened, then bottle, cork, and seal. 

Liver Ketchup 

This is rather tmusual in the sauce line, but epicures 
delight in its use especially with cold game. Take one fresh 
beef liver and rub it well with salt, place in a crock, and rub 
and turn it daily in the salt for a week; then mince it into 
small dice and boil it in a gallon of water closely covered 
until reduced to three quarts. Strain through a sieve 
and let settle and cool until next day. Add one ounce of 



554 Preserving and FicKlin^ 

ground ginger, one ounce of allspice, two ounces of whole 
black pepper, and boil slowly until reduced one half. When 
cold, bottle and seal. 

Walnut Ketchup 

In early August the walnuts are young and soft and 
are just right for this use. Take one hundred walnuts, 
slightly bruise them, and put them into a crock with a quart 
of vinegar and a handful of salt. Let them stand for a 
week, stirring them daily. Then drain off the Uquor and 
boil it with a quarter ounce each of mace, nutmeg, cloves, 
and whole black peppercorns; a small piece of horseradish, 
twenty shalots, a quarter poimd of anchovies; boil for a 
half hour, then bottle, cork, and seal. 



INVALID COOEBRT 

The art of invalid cookery seems to be one that is woe- 
fully neglected, and when the need arises for its use, even in 
a slight degree, it seems to puzzle most people to decide 
what to get or how to cook the article. Little and often is 
the way to feed most convalescents, and to keep things both 
palatable and nourishing at the same time takes considerable 
intelligent thought. 

The fruits allowable usually are the baked apples and 
stewed prunes, white grapes seeded, cut in half, and dropped 
on cracked ice. The fresh orange pulp freed from all skin or 
the grapefruit pulp treated in the same way make a drink 
as well as food. 

For fhe Sick Room 

Eggs must be absolutely beyond reproach for use in the 
sick room. They may be used in eggnog, sherry and egg, 
soft boiled, or the white delicately poached. The yolk being 
the fat of the egg, is not always considered light enough for 
the invalid stomach. The white dropped into a glass of ice 
water, but not stirred, and fed spoon by spoon is a favorite 
way, especially for children. It is well never to make things 
in large quantity, for the invalid appetite is so capricious 
that it may weary of a delicacy after one taste. 

Modem sdenoe has put into jars, bottles, and cans all 
manner of broths and dainties, but the things that are really 
best appreciated are the little things that are made at home. 
Everything that goes to the invalid should be as dainty as 
possible, and be removed as soon as the invalid is finished 

555 



55^ Invalid CooKerx 

with it. Broths are always a standby, and possibly the 
following recipes may aid the inexperienced in preparing 
them. 

Clam Brofh 

Wash twenty-five round clams and cover them with half a 
cup of cold water, cover and let slowly come to a boil. When 
all are steamed open, strain off the liquor and it is ready 
for use. It may be hot or chilled. The dams can be put 
into a cream dressing and served as a Itmcheon dish for the 
well ones of the family. In this way nothing goes to waste. 

Chicken Brofh 

Take one fresh fowl, prepared and jointed carefully, 
and place it in a kettle with one quart of water. Simmer 
gently, skimming carefully until the meat leaves the bones. 
Remove the meat and add juice of a tiny onion, one stalk of 
celery, pepper, salt, and the bones. Simmer half an hour, 
strain, and when cold remove all grease and it is i^eady to use 
as needed. Rice may be boiled and a teaspoon added as it 
is needed; if it is not all used at once it is apt to sour. 

Mutton Broth 

One pound of the scrag end of the neck of mutton is needed 
for this, and two pints of water, salt, and pepper. Skim 
carefully, let cook one hour, strain, and cool. When cold 
remove every particle of fat and it is ready for use. Pearl 
barley may be boiled in fair water and added as it is needed, 
if it is liked. 

Gruels 

Com meal, arrowroot, and rice gruel are all made in the 
same way by mixing two tablespoons of meal in cold water 
and simmering gently an hour or more, straining and add- 
ing a gill of cream and a tiny bit of butter. 



Invalid CooKerx 557 

FOOD HINTS 

Clam, oyster, and ed broths are all nourishing and refresh- 
ing if the patient likes them. 

In reheating broths only heat as much as the patient needs 

at one time; never heat a second time the same broth. 
Breads for the invalid's use should be " pulled " or toasted 

and stale. 

Daintily broiled chicken, steak, lamb chops, squab, quail, 

oysters, and sweetbreads are among the best of fare for 

invalids. Boiled tripe, calves' liver, and frogs' legs are easily 

digested. 

Wine Jelly 

Soak in half a pint of cold water one box of gelatine ; put 
with one pint of sherry, one pint of sugar, one pint of water, 
one dove, the rind of one lemon, and the beaten whites of two 
eggs in a saucepan over the fire, stir for ten minutes and 
when it bubbles move back but keep at boiling point for 
half an hour ; strain into molds and put on ice. 

Invalids' Jelly 

Soak and scrub twdve shanks of mutton in cold water, 
put them with one poimd of lean beef, three quarts of 
water, one onion, a bunch of sweet herbs, pepper, salt, bay 
leaf, one dove, a slice of toast, and two blades of mace into a 
stewpan, and simmer for five hours. Strain and when cold 
remove all grease. Use part as jelly and part as soup, heat- 
ing and adding a little macaroni that has been boiled. 

Orange Jelly 

Dissolve one half box of gelatine in half a cup of cold 
water; take the pulp and juice of six oranges and two lemons 
and one cup of sugar; stir all together and add one cup 
of boiling water, stir well, strain into molds and chill. 
Lemon and pineapple jellies may be made in the same way, 
only add a dash of rum to the pineapple. 



558 Invalid Cookery 

Stewed Calf s Foot 

Carefully clean a calf's foot and stew three hours in a 
pint of milk and a pint of water, with the rind of half a lemon» 
one blade of mace, one minced onion, pepper, and salt. Just 
before serving, remove meat from bones and add half a 
cup of cream. Serve with sippets of toast. 

Ftesh Codfish 

Boil a two-pound piece of fresh cod twenty minutes, 
remove all skin and bones, lightly shred with a silver fork, 
make a rich cream sauce, pour over the fish, and serve 
on toast. 

Stewed Cutlet 

Have the cutlet cut from the loin or ribs of mutton, 
removing all fat. Put in a stewpan with two cups of 
water, a stalk of celery cut fine, half an onion minced, and 
stew two hours, skimming all fat that rises to the surface. 
Take out the cutlet, strain the gravy over it, and serve hot. 

Asparagus Pudding 

Wash and boil one bunch of green asparagus twenty 
minutes. Cut the green heads from the stalks, beat four 
eggs into one cup of milk, add half a cup of cracker crumbs 
mixed with two tablespoons of flotu:, one ounce of butter, 
half a cup of the asparagus water, salt, and pepper; put in a 
baking dish and bake half an hour or tmtil brown. 

NOniaSHING DRINKS 

If cups or ttmiblers "slop over" their contents are unin- 
viting; the rims of cups and glasses should be absolutely dry 
and the saucers dry also. Straws are often a comfort, as 
well as the drinking " ducks" and short-handled spoons. Ice 
should never be put into the invalid's glass, but things to be 



559 

served cold should be chilled before serving. Here are some 
nourishing or cooling liquid foods and beverages, as they are 
i best prepared for invalids. 

Nourishing Lemonade 

One and a half pints of boiling water, the juice of four 
lemons, the rinds of two, half a pint of sherry, four eggs, six 
oimces of loaf sugar. Pare thinly the rinds of two lemons, 
put in a jug with the sugar, and turn over the hot water; 
let it cool, then add the wine, lemon juice, and beaten eggs; 
mix well, strain, and set away to cool. 

Egg Wine 

One egg, one glass of sherry, sugar, and grated nutmeg to 
taste. Beat the egg with a tablespoon of water; mix the 
wine and half a glass of water and heat it, but do not let it 
boil; pour over the egg, stirring all the time; add the sugar 
and the nutmeg; place on gentle fire in a dean pan and stir 
one way until it thickens; do not boil it. Serve in a glass 
with crisp wafers. 

Barley Gruel 

Two ounces of pearl barley, half a pint of port, the rind 
of one lemon, sugar to taste. Wash the barley well and boil 
it in half a pint of water a quarter of an hour; strain off 
the water and add a quart of boiling water; let boil until re- 
duced to one half; strain and add the wine, sugar, and lemon 
peel ; simmer five minutes, then strain into a clean jug and put 
away to cool. It may be warmed as needed or served cold. 

Toast Water 

^ver one slice of carefully made toast pour one quart of 
boiling water, let cool and strain, and it is ready for use. 
For a very delicate person or a child the white of an egg 
broken into a glass of toast water, not stirred or beaten, is 
very notirishing. 



56o Invalid CooKery 

Pineapple Fizz 

To the jtdoe of one pineapple add four tablespoons of 
powdered sugar and the juice of one lemon, chill on ice ; to a 
quarter of a glass of the mixture add vichy to fill the glass. 
A most refreshing drink. Vichy may also be used with milk. 

Milk punch and eggnog are excellent if the milk is rich 
and the eggs are fresh. Cold consonam6 is a good standby 
if well made, and a little good sherry is added just before 
serving. Mulled wine, if served very hot and spicy and 
made with strained honey instead of sugar, is the influenza 
drink par excellenoe. 

Wine Whey 

Scald one cup of milk, add one cup of wine, cook gently 
until it wheys; strain through cheese doth ; chill, and serve. 

Com Meal Gruel 

Mix one tablespoon of yellow com meal, half a teaspoon 
of salt, and two tablespoons of cold water; simmer gently 
for one hour. In the serving bowl put two tablespoons of 
rich cream and one lump of sugar; strain in the gruel, stir, 
and serve. Arrowroot gruel is made the same way, only 
cooked ten minutes instead of an hotur. 

Nutritious Coffee 

Grind half an ounce of good coffee, and add it to one pint 
of hot milk; boil three minutes, add one well beaten egg; 
strain into cup containing one lump of sugar. 

Tea 

If tea is used, be sure that it is infused with fresh water 
that has just come to a boil; never boil tea; never let it 
stand more than three minutes on the leaves and never 
warm it over. The best way is to pour it off into a second 
hot teapot, in which it may be kept hot as long as desired. 



Invalid CooKery 561 

FOR RHEUMATIC DIETS 

(Mentis are offered from which suggestions may be culled 
to plan other meals for persons so afflicted) 

Breakfast 

Baked Apple and Cream 

Farina 

Whites of Eggs, Poached on Toast ; Strips of Crisp Bacon 

Cocoa 

It is well for people past middle life who are troubled with 
rheumatism to drink plenty of pure water. A large cup of 
either cold or warm lithia water taken before breakfast is 
often advised. The apples — ^large, juicy ones — should be 
baked till soft, though not mushy, and dusted lightly with 
sugar. 

Be sure that the cereal is thoroughly cooked and serve 
it hot or jellied with cream. 

A little crisp bacon is allowed, while other pork products 
are barred. Avoid the use of the yolks of the eggs, but 
poach the whites and serve them on slices of whole wheat 
bread toasted and buttered with sweet butter. Make 
the cocoa with part milk and part water, using saccharine 
tablets to sweeten it. 

Luncheon 

Chicken Consomm^, Toast Fingers 

Creamed Codfish. Boiled Asparagus 

Boiled Rice and Apple Jelly 

Milk, Cold or Hot 

Chicken consomm^, made in the usual way, should be 
served hot. Have the toast fingers well dried and serve 
without butter. 

Thicken the cream for the cold flaked boiled cod with 
butter and flour rubbed to a smooth paste. Serve the boiled 
asparagus on toast with a little butter, salt, and pepper, 
ad 



562 Invalid CooKerx 

The rioe should be boiled till qtiite soft. Add a little 
fresh butter and salt to it and a little cream, if desired. 
A dessertspoon of apple jelly will add to the attractiveness. 
Milk, hot or cold, may be served, or any of the good table 
waters, though it is best for the patient to drink as little as 
possible during meals. 

Dinner 

Green Pea Soup 
Broiled Chicken. Baked Potatoes. String Beans. Let- 
tuce Salad. Toasted Whole Wheat Crackers 
Prune Souffld. Black CoflEee 

One pint of green split peas well washed, two quarts cold 
water, three sliced onions, one thin slice of bacon with its 
rind for flavor are used for the soup. Cover tightly and 
cook several hours, mash through a purde sieve, season, 
and serve with toast squares. 

Be sure that the chickens for broiling are yoimg and 
tender. Season them with butter, pepper, and salt and gar- 
nish with watercress. When the potatoes begin to shrivel in 
the oven prick each one with a steel fork in two or three places 
to let out the gas. Boil the string beans after careful string- 
ing, drain thoroughly; season with butter, pepper, and salt. 

After carefully washing and drying the lettuce, serve with 
a dressing made of three tablespoons of olive oil to one of 
lemon juice, a dash of pepper and pinch of salt. Toast the 
whole wheat crackers and spread lightly with fresh butter 
or cover them with a little sour cream. 

Stone fresh stewed prunes that have been cooked without 
sugar. Chop enough to make one cup, add the whites of 
three well beaten eggs whipped light, and bake in lightly 
buttered baking dish until it puffs up. Serve hot or cold 
with cream. No sugar or milk is allowed with the coffee. 

Home Nursing 

There are many little points for those who are nursing in 



Invalid CooKery 563 

the home to know that are of the utmost importance for the 
comfort of the ill, besides the preparation of the invalid's 
tray and the food that goes on it. 

The absolute cleanliness of the room is a necessity, 
prompt removal of soiled dishes and glasses, empty bottles, 
soiled linen and fading flowers, while no strong odored 
fruits should be allowed to stand in the room a moment. 

Remember to shield the light from the patient day or 
night. Oil squeaking door hinges and soap the sills and 
edges if the door sticks. If a coal stoye is used put the 
coal in paper bags and put one on the fire when needed. 

Gently, but firmly, restrict all friendly visits to fifteen 
minutes, if allowed at all, and suggest that the visitors intro- 
duce only pleasant topics into their conversation while 
they stay. 

Never stand over an invalid's bed and consult with an- 
other about food, or, in fact, anything that concerns him 
or her, for it makes the invalid nervous and irritable. It is 
enough to worry about those things when one is able to walk 
about, but on the flat of one's back it is torture. 

Realizing the great power of mind in these days the cheer- 
ful nurse is the only one to have — one who seems a tower of 
strength to the weak one. If asked to read the paper pick 
out the newsy bright articles, speak distinctly, and do not 
rattle the paper needlessly. 

When feeding invalids with a spoon sit dose enough to do 
it deftly, so that they are not afraid of being choked or 
drenched by its contents. 

When the patient is ready for the night let the nurse be 
ready for quiet also and not fidget around until the patient 
is wide-awake and nervous. 

Never startle an ill person by coming from behind him; 
always come toward him, and speak naturally and quietly 
lest he grow confused as to one's identity. It worries 
the weak to keep dearly the persons in mind about them 
if there are a number coming and going. 

Do not attempt to stir a patient into a lively sense of 



564 Invalid CooKerx 

gratitude for flowers, fruit, and so on sent by friends, but 
keep the cards, as it is amusing to answer them during 
the convalescent period. 

Bells, clocks, pianos, or any noise that annoys shotdd be 
guarded against. 

The advent of the tray is always an interesting event in 
the patient's day and to prepare it is a great art. It must 
be exquisitely dainty so that it seems appetizing, and small 
portions only served at a time lest the sight of too much 
turn the patient's desire. 



RECOMMENDED CHUDREITS DIETS 

Here is the ideal diet for a child from eighteen months to 
two years: 

Breakfast 

Juice of one sweet orange, one half hour before eating: 
cereal with top milk, glass of milk, and bread and butter. 
Cream of wheat, farina, oatmeal or hominy preparations 
well cooked will do. The bread should be at least a day old 
and the butter sweet. 

Forenoon 

A glass of milk with two toasted biscuits, graham crackers, 
or zwieback. 

Dinner 

Soup or broth thickened with peas, sago, or rice, or vege- 
table soup with yolk of egg, or soft boiled egg with bread 
crumbs, and a glass of milk. Plain puddings, like rice, 
bread, tapioca, blanc-mange, junket, or custard. 

Beef juice with bread crumbs is often used instead of the 
soups, eggs, or broths. Apple sauce and prune pulp may 
be used instead of the puddings. The total amount of milk 
the child should have during the twenty-four hotirs is one 
and a half quarts. 

The beef juice is easily extracted by means of any of- the 
simple squeezers after the beef has been slightly warmed to 
start the juice flowing. 

565 



566 Recommenciecl CKildren's Diets 

The yolk of egg is added to the clear vegetable soup to 
give it body, and the vegetables should be the best and 
freshest that can be procured. 

Supper 

A glass of milk, warm or cold, sswieback, and custard or 
stewed fruit. This is a light meal, for bedtime follows 
dose upon it and a sleepy baby is not apt to be a hungry 
baby» so it does not demand either quantity or variety. 

A good diet for a child from two to three years old: 

Breakfast 

Juice of one sweet orange. Farina with top milk (siicteen 
ounces) or a soft boiled egg and toast. Glass of milk. 

If the orange is not available or the child likes a change, 
one ounce of pineapple juice (fresh or canned) or the 
pulp of six stewed prunes or apple given a half hour before 
breakfast. 

Dumer 

Chicken soup, or mutton or beef broth thickened with 
arrowroot, split peas, or rice. Scraped beef or white meat of 
chicken, or baked potato and fresh peas. Rice pudding. 

Broiled fish may be used as a change from the chicken 
meat or the scraped beef. Spinach or carrots may be used 
instead of peas, but all must be carefully cooked. Baked 
apple, apple sauce, jtmket, or custard may be offered to 
vary the pudding. 

Supper 

Cream of wheat, or egg with toast. Stewed fruit. 
Bread and milk, bread and cocoa, or bread and custard 
may be used in ttim, for breakfast. 

A sample menu for the child from three to five yeais old, 
approved by the New York City Board of Health : 



SeGomsnended CHildren's Diets 567 

Breakfost 

Stewed prunes. 

Boiled hominy, cream, and sugar. 

Soft boiled egg, toast, cocoa. 

The more rigorously the diet for the child from three to six 
years is governed the more freedom there will be from the 
usual childish disorders. The prunes shotdd be stewed ab- 
solutely tender, and but a very small amount of sugar added 
to them. The hominy must be well cooked and salted, and 
only a small amount of sugar and thin cream used over it. 

The egg, soft boiled, and the toast, carefully made and 
lightly buttered with fresh butter, or pulled bread, if the 
child is tired of toast, must be served immediately that they 
are ready. The cocoa may be made with half milk, half 
water, if the child is inclined to be of a bilious temperament ; 
otherwise all milk and as little sugar as will content the 
child's sweet taste should be used. 

Dinner 

Beef soup, toast fingers. 

Lamb chops, broiled; baked potato, string beans. 

Fresh lettuce. 

Rice pudding. 

The beef soup that has been made with the vegetables 
should be allowed to stand and get cold, so that the grease 
may be taken from the top. Then heat only enough with 
the vegetables for the child's one plate. Have the toast 
fingers dry and crisp. 

Broil the chops delicately, sprinkle with salt, and add 
a little fresh butter. Remove the baked potato from the 
skin, mash lightly with a fork, add a little fresh butter and 
salt and a few drops of cream. See that the beans have been 
carefully strung and well boiled in fair water ; do not add any 
seasoning until they are drained, and then only a little fresh 
butter and salt. 

Wash thoroughly fresh, crisp lettuce leaves; take a table- 



568 Recom mended CHildren's Diets 

spoon of olive oil, salt, and the juice of a lemon and sprinkle 
lightly over the salad. This dressing will be enough for two 
days. No vinegar or pepper should be used for a child of 
this age. Remember the taste is not sufficiently cultivated 
to miss it, and the little stomach will be much better ofiE 
without it. 

The rice pudding should be made creamy and soft, and 
there is no objection, to having a few large seeded raisins in 
it. It may be served hot or cold, as the child likes it best. 
If possible, do not offer anything to drink with this meal, but 
if it is demanded use a little cool, but not iced, spring water. 

Supper 

Milk toast. 

Stewed fruit, custard. 

Glass of milk. 

Cut the crusts off, toast the bread slices evenly, and lay 
them in the dish; heat a pint of fresh milk, add a pinch of 
salt and sugar, a small Itmip of butter. . Thicken slightly 
with a little cornstarch, if the child prefers; turn it over the 
toast and serve immediately. 

The stewed fruit may be of any kind which the child 
fancies, with a little light cream over it. A cup custard or 
a dish of plain boiled custard that has been chilled makes a 
most satisfactory dessert. 

As children usually rise early, it is a long time from their 
breakfast to the i o'clock luncheon hour, so at half past ten 
it is better to let them have a thin jelly sandwich and a glass 
of milk. Again at about three is an excellent time for some 
home-made cookies and a glass of the juice of some fresh 
fniit. 



ive Meals Served a Day 

The half past five dinner will make five times that the 
child has been fed since seven, but with so much judgment 
and tmderstanding that he has had just enough to eat, 



Recommencied CKildren's Diets 569 

and comfortably clothed and allowed the proper amount 
of bathing and sleep he should thrive. 

Though it may startle some women, it is generally 
acknowledged that ice cream is one of the best and most 
healthful things a child can eat, that is, if it is made of pure 
cream and sugar, flavored delicately with the soft inside 
part of the vanilla bean. As much flavoring as can rest on 
the point of a small knife will flavor a whole quart of cream. 

As to cake, the lightest of sponge cake, with or without 
jelly, gingerbread, zweiback, and home-made cookies fur- 
nish quite a sufficient variety. 

Too much cannot be said against cheap candy. The ex- 
posure of its frightful adulterations ought to frighten even 
the most careless mother and to have broken the pernicious 
"penny" habit. 

The best is the cheapest in the end and the wise mother 
will buy the best she can find. Clear, hard candy is very 
good and should be given to the child little by little as he 
may crave for it. 

Irritability will not be found manifested to any great 
extent in a child who is systematically cared for, whose 
stomach is satisfied, who has plenty of sleep and enough air, 
and who is gently directed rather than forced into the way 
he should go. 

Simple Menus &e Best 

These menus will be helpful for the mother to start with : 

BREAKFAST — 7 A.M. 

Moulded Cereal (Gluten), with Prunes and Cream 
Soft Boiled Eggs, Buttered Toast 

Cocoa 

WEE BITE — 10.30 A.M. 

Currant Jelly Sandwich and Glass of Milk 



57^ Recommended CKildren's Diets 

LUNCHEON — I P.M. 

Bouillon, Toast Fingers 
Broiled Lamb Chops, Baked Potato 
Lettuce, Simple Dressing 
Tapioca Pudding 

WEE BITE — ^3 P.M. 

Cookies and Fruit Juice Drink 

DINNER — 5.30 P.M. 

Creamed Chicken on Toast 
Baked Custard. Zweiback. Milk 

No fried food or hot bread is considered good for a child to 
eat. He should be fed whole wheat bread a day old, white 
bread toasted; graham and brown bread occasionally for 
variety, and a few of the crackers which the market offers. 

A child seems naturally fond of imsalted butter, and it is 
better for him than the salted. 

The Rig^t Salad Dressing 

For the various lettuces which are good for the child a 
dressing may be made of a few drops of olive oil, salt, and 
lemon juice, or a light mayonnaise dressing, made without 
mustard, if the child likes it. Oil is excellent for the health 
if used freely, but had best be dropped if disliked, a point for 
the mother to watch and decide upon herself, as no rule will 
work in all cases. 

General Feeding 

Whites of eggs poached are delicate and often liked, where 
the yolk will be refused. All well cooked vegetables 
simply dressed may be added in turn to the simple menu. 
A little rare roast beef and now and then a tender steak at 
noonday, roast lamb and chicken cooked in different ways 
are always well liked by children. Cream vegetable soups. 



Recommended CKildrexi's Diets 57^ 

dam and oyster broth, broiled fresh fish or baked blue- 
fish and potatoes, baked or creamed, are good and whole- 
some. There is nothing more easily digested than stewed 
tripe or creamed sweetbreads, if the child likes them. 
Broiled squab is another favorite with almost all children. 

CHILDREN'S FAVORITE DISHES 

Of course, there are always things that wise mothers 
think that their children should eat whether they like them or 
not, simply because tradition and the family doctor say so; 
but the more modem idea is that the food that is not 
taken with a relish because it tastes good does not nourish 
the system or gratify the small person in any way. Chil- 
dren's tastes, though simpler than grown people's, are just 
as decided, and their loathings and likes are just as pro- 
nounced. It is said that the taste changes every seven 
years; and in that case why worry? The child who refuses 
to eat eggs, fruit, or fish to-day will turn to them when he 
feels the need for them, or in some way the taste is aroused 
for them. 

There seems to be an almost universal liking for sweets 
among normal children, and the only difficulty is to turn 
this liking into the safest channels. Milk and cocoa seem 
to be the favorite beverages, with lemonade or orangeade 
for a cold drink. Ice cream is usually popular, especially 
vanilla and chocolate. Fish, strong flavored vegetables, 
highly seasoned meats, or very rich salads are rarely liked by 
children. The recipes given are for a few general favorites, 
and the little menu is good for a children's Itmcheon party. 

Menu 

Chicken Bouillon. Finger Rolls 
French Chops. Peas. Mashed Potatoes 

Fruit Salad 
Vanilla Ice Cream. Sponge Cake 

Cocoa 



572 Recommended CHildren's Diets 

The bouillon may be served hot or cold, the chops deli- 
cately broiled and the peas served around them, and the 
mashed potato should be beaten up very light and creamy. 
The fruit salad may be made with a good mayonnaise 
made without mustard, or with a creamy boiled dressing 
which is allowed to cool before using it on the salad. The 
ice cream is the best ever if made at home, the real boiled 
custard sort being immensely popular with the little people, 
while sponge cake, lady fingers, and the cooky family seem 
to be proprietary dainties of childhood. 

Rice Soup 

Throw four ounces of well washed Patna rice into boiling 
water and let it boil five minutes. Then pour into a sieve 
and allow it to drain well. Then add it to two quarts of boil- 
ing white stock. Add salt, pepper, and a pinch of mace. 
Just before it goes to table put a few spoons of whipped 
cream over the top and serve with toasted bread sippets. 

Tapioca, though best known associated with pudding 
history, is a most excellent soup medium as well. It is 
made from the pith of the cassava tree, native to the East 
Indies and Brazil. Its nutritive properties are great and 
especially adapted to delicate digestions. 

Tapioca Soup 

Put five ounces of tapioca into two quarts of cold white 
stock and bring it gradually to a boil. Simmer for an hour 
or longer until it is tender. Season to taste, and just before 
serving add a wineglass of good sherry and serve with dry 
toast fingers. 

In using chops for the nursery folks the lamb chops 
delicately broiled are the only sort used. The small Ham- 
burg steaks or meat cakes for the older children shotdd be 
made, after the steak has been properly chopped, into small 
cakes thicker at the edges than in the center that they 
may cook through more thoroughly. They are of cotirse 



Recommended CHildren*s Diets 573 

broiled. Fresh and stewed fruits are highly recommended* 
and plenty of lettuce dressed with a French dressing made 
with lemon juice instead of vinegar, or eaten with salt. 

There is nothing more tmhappy than a soggy baked 
potato, or anything nicer than one that is rightly cooked. 
After washing the potato, and removing the eyes if it is an 
old one, place it on the oven rack when the oven is advancing 
in heat, and after a few minutes turn it over so that it bakes 
evenly, trying to avoid its bursting if possible. This hap- 
pens of course when the starch begins to swell and the 
skin tightens under the pressure. When the potato feels 
soft and done remove it with a doth and gently press it all 
over so as to loosen all the potato from the shell, then when 
it is broken open the steam rushes out, and the potato is 
light and mealy. The layer nearest the skin is where the 
starch lies and this is what makes the skin of the baked 
potato so good to eat. 

Creamed Potatoes 

Boil six smooth potatoes until done, then dice them, make 
a rich cream sauce, add the potatoes long enough to warm 
through, and serve garnished with toast sippets and parsley. 

Cinnamon Toast 

Children who refuse the ordinary dry toast will like cin- 
namon toast, which is made by toasting slices of bread, 
buttering, and spreading with a mixture of one tablespoon of 
sugar to one half teaspoon of cinnamon. Serve it hot. 

Cream Toast 

All children like cream toast. To make it, melt in a double 
boiler a heaping tablespoon of butter, rub in smoothly a 
slightly rounding tablespoon of flour, and stir in slowly 
one cup of hot milk or thin cream, and a pinch of salt. 
Cook till creamy, stirring constantly. Place the hot, dry 



574 Recommendeci CKildren's Diets 

toast on a hot platter, pour the cream sauce over it, and 
serve very hot. 

Venetian Zwieback 

Take the yolks of four eggs and half a pound of sugar; 
beat together, add the beaten snow of four whites of eggs, 
with half a cup of cake flour, and bake in a small buttered 
pan. When baked and cool, cut in thin slices or fingers, 
spread on a baking sheet, and put in the cooling oven to dry. 
Delidbus to serve with iced custards or preserves. 

CHILDREN'S DESSERTS 

Fresh fruits are the choice for the foundation of most 
of the desserts for children. Of these apples, peaches, and 
grapes are first choice, with bananas and oranges next, and 
stewed fruits following. Pears are not good for the younger 
children, because they ferment in the stomach. Fruit 
souffle shotdd be avoided because eggs cooked in this form 
are apt to be indigestible for small stomachs. 

If children can be taught to lightly sprinkle their bananas 
with salt they will be easier digested than with sugar and 
cream. Here are some ways in which fruit can be prepared 
for children. 

Jellied Grapes 

Wash two bunches of grapes, then pltmge them into boil- 
ing water for half a minute. Remove skins and seeds, 
leaving a cup of pulp. Make a syrup of half a cup of sugar 
and a cup of water, add grapes and a tablespoon of Cox's 
gelatine that has soaked in cold water. Let thoroughly 
melt and boil up, then turn into a mold. 

Apple Custard 

Make a good custard, turn into a mold to chill. Dice 
one large ripe apple and boil it in dear water a few minutes, 



Recommended CHildren's Diets 575 



— do not let the dice lose their shape, — drain, and when 
cold put on top of the custard and cover with whipped 
cream. 

Rice and Peaches 

Take boiled rice and place an inch deep in the mold. 
Pare, halve, and boil ripe peaches ten minutes in vanilla 
syrup, then place on a wire sieve to drain. When cold lay 
on the molded rice and cover with whipped cream. 

MacSdome Fruit 

To a cup and a half of vanilla syrup add a cup of cut 
peaches, sliced banana, a few seeded grapes, six half apri- 
cots. Boil ten minutes, then add a tablespoon of gelatine 
that has soaked in water, let melt, and boil up; then mold. 
Serve with sponge cake but no cream. 

Nutted Prunes 

Stew large prunes the usual way. When cold remove 
the stones carefully, placing a blanched almond in each 
cavity. Pile on sauce plates and serve with sweet cream 
and sponge cakes. 

Apple Tapioca 

Core and bake large ripe apples, filling the center with 
sugar. When cold have ready some boiled pearl tapioca, 
which should be seasoned with sugar and vanilla. Coat 
the apples with it and set away to chill. Serve with or 
without whipped cream as the child best likes it. A lemon 
sauce is sometimes used made of a cup of water to three 
quarters of a cup of sugar boiled until it is like syrup and 
then adding the juice of a lemon. 

Peaches Bavaioise 

Peel and halve six ripe peaches and boil in vanilla syrup 
tmtil they are tender, then drain on wire sieve. Boil a 



57^ Recotninen4cd CKildren*s Diets 

quarter of a pint of milk, add beaten yolks of two eggs, 
return to fire, and cook long enough to slightly bind the 
eggs. Add two tablespoons of sugar and four leaves of 
gelatine that has soaked in cold water, mix well until all 
is melted, then strain into a bowl. When the custard 
is cool add a quarter of a pint of whipped cream. Dice a 
slice of pineapple, halve and stone a handful of cherries, 
flavor with a tablespoon of maraschino, and add to the 
custard. Pour it into a deep dish to set. When cold place 
the peaches in a ring on the top, with a cup of whipped 
cream in the center, and serve with apricot sjrrup. 

Molded Prunes 

Boil a pound of large French prunes. When cool stone 
them and slip in a blanched almond in place of the stone. 
Make a good wine sauce, arrange in a mold with the prunes, 
put in a cold place to set and chill. Make a boiled custard, 
using the whites of the eggs to make the kisses to put over 
the top. Chill this also, and when ready to serve place the 
jelly on a plate and pour the custard around it, putting 
three of the kisses on top as decoration. 

Prune Souffle 

The souffle may be made by stoning a cup and a half 
of stewed prunes and chopping them fine. Add the beaten 
whites of four eggs, two teaspoons of powdered sugar, whip 
very light, and turn into a pudding dish which has been 
very slightly greased. Bake until it puffs up, then remove 
from the oven and serve with whipped cream. 

Apple Float 

Beat till stiff the whites of two eggs, add sugar, and mix 
lightly with two cups of very smooth apple sauce; set away 
to chill. Make a smooth custard and chill that also; then 
place the apple mixttire in the center of the dish and turn 
the custard around it. 



Recommended CHildren's Diets 577 

Chfldren's Pudding 

A Christmas pudding for children has the following 
ingredients: 

One pound of flour, one pound of bread crumbs, three 
quarters of a pound of stoned raisins, three quarters of a 
pound of currants carefully washed, three quarters of a 
pound of finely chopped suet, two ounces of candied peel 
chopped, one teaspoon of powdered allspice, half a salt- 
spoon of salt, and a teaspoon of vanilla. Beat well together, 
adding sufficient milk to make it of the right consistency. 
Cover it with a floured doth and boil for at least five hours. 
Serve with a hard sauce flavored with vanilla, and garnish 
with holly. 

Children's Vanilla Cream 

One quart of pure cream, a half cup of sugar that has been 
melted with a tablespoon of hot water and allowed to cool; 
scrape from the inside of the vanilla bean as much of the 
soft center as would fill half a saltspoon, add it to the mix- 
ture, and freeze. If this cream is to be used for an invalid, 
the sugar is left out entirely, and it thereby makes the 
purest cream known and most nourishing. 

French Peach Cream 

Take two quarts of ripe peaches, or a dozen good sized 
peaches, pare, cut fine, and sprinkle with one pint of sugar. 
Stand in a cool place one hour; then add one quart of cream 
and freeze. When almost hard, add the whites of two 
stiffly beaten eggs, beat well, pack in individual molds, 
and lay in salt and ice until needed. If the cream is to 
be left in the large mold, cover and leave to ripen until 
needed. 

Biscuit Glac£ 

To one and a half pints of cream add the beaten yolks 
of eight eggs, twelve ounces of sugar and one tablespoon 

37 



57^ Recommendecl CHildren's Diets 

of extract of vanilla. Place on the stove and stir the mix- 
ture until it begins to thicken, then strain through a sieve 
into the freezer. When nearly frozen, mix in six ounces 
of crisp macaroons that have been rolled to a powder, and 
a teaspoon of vanilla flavoring. Cover tightly, finish freez- 
ing, and let ripen until needed. 

SIMPLE CAKES FOR CHILDREN 

Who is there that cannot recall the fascinating odor 
which floated from the old-fashioned kitchen on baking 
days; when not one only but a round half dozen of pies were 
baked in the oven at once, then drawn out with a "peel" 
to rest and cool on the pantry shelves? In those days 
when asked about the day's baking the cook would say 
that she had made a "sheet" of sponge cake, a "crock " of 
doughnuts, a "card" of gingerbread, a "square" of pound 
cake, and a "baking" of seed cakes. Just a few of the old 
recipes may prove of value to modem mothers. 

Sponge Cake 

Break one dozen eggs into a large mixing bowl without 
separating, and add two cups of powdered sugar. Set 
this into a pan of boiling water and keep near the front of the 
range where it will stay at the same temperature. Beat 
with an egg-beater one half hour, then remove from the 
range and stir in the grated rind and juice of one lemon, and 
a cup of flour; potir into buttered chimney pans and bake 
in a moderate oven. Test with a broom splint and when 
done invert the pans and let cool before removing the cake. 

Berwick Sponge Cake 

Beat the yolks of six eggs very light with three cups of 
powdered sugar, add four cups of flour sifted three times, 
one teaspoon of soda, two of cream tartar, juice of half a 
lemon, then fold in the stiffly beaten whites of the six eggs and 
last of all add one cup of cold water. Bake in a quick oven. 



Recommended CHildren's Diets 579 

Soft Gingerbread 

Two cups of sifted flour and one and a half teaspoons of 
baking powder; sift this into one cup of molasses, a half 
cup of sugar, a half cup of sweet milk, a half cup of butter, 
and two eggs; mix thoroughly and add one level tablespoon 
of ground ginger, one teaspoon of allspice, and a little 
nutmeg. Bake in a lightly buttered shallow pan. 

Favorite Cookies 

Cream two cups of sugar with one cup of butter, two 
well beaten eggs, three quarters of a cup of milk, a pinch of 
salt, five cups of sifted flour, and a heaping teaspoon of bak- 
ing powder. Mix thoroughly, roll out thinly, cut in fancy 
shapes, and bake in buttered tin in a quick oven. 

Crullers 

A cup and a half of sugar, two tablespoons of butter, 
three eggs, a large cup of rich milk, three cups of flour, 
two teaspoons of baking powder and one of salt. Cut 
into rounds with a hole in the center and fry in hot deep 
fat. When done drain and sprinkle with powdered sugar 
and pack away in a crock when cold. 

Seed Cookies 

Beat in a mixing bowl one egg, adding slowly one cup of 
granulated sugar, then one half cup of fresh milk, three 
and one half cups of flour, and one heaping teaspoon of bak- 
ing powder. Stir well and add a half cup of melted butter, 
and a heaping teaspoon of caraway or fennel seed. Beat 
well, then drop into a buttered dripping pan, smoothing it 
with the hand, sprinkle with sugar, and bake. When cold 
cut in small squares and pack in a covered crock to keep a 
bit moist. 



58o Recommended CHildren's Dieta 

Ginger Snaps 

One half cup of butter, one cup of sugar, one cup of mo- 
lasses, one tablespoon of freshly ground ginger, two tea- 
spoons of baking powder, and flour enough to make a 
dough to roll, cut and bake. 

Jelly Sandwiches 

Make two layer cakes after the simple recipe of one 
small cup of butter, two cups of sugar, three cups of flour 
and four eggs, a teaspoon and a half of baking powder, tea- 
spoon of vanilla flavoring, and a cup of sweet milk. This 
amount will make three layers. When baked split two of 
the layers, then spread with good jam or jelly, put on the 
other layer, cut them into squares, and sprinkle with pow- 
dered sugar. Put in a cake box to keep moist. The other 
layer may be frosted and cut into squares for a plain cake. 



EAST RECIPES FOR THE LITTLE COOK 

Never has there been a little girl who did not like to cook 
or help with household tasks if she were given the least 
encotiragement, and especially if her mother would really 
use the things she cooked. 

Here are just a few dishes, easy and inexpensive, to start 
her recipe book, and, with a little patient supervision by 
mother or cook during the first making and a careful writing 
down of the recipe, surely the second attempt will be 
very easy and result in the perfect product. 

Simple Tomato Soup 

Turn one can of tomatoes and one can of water into a 
dean saucepan. Pare one carrot, one small turnip, one 
potato, wash them in cold water, cut them into dice, and put 
them into the saucepan. Take one stalk of celery, a little 
bunch of parsley, wash dean and chop fine and put into 
the soup. Next take one pound of top round steak (ask the 
butcher to cut it in little squares with his sharp knife), 
then add that, with a dash of pepper, a teaspoon of salt, and 
cover the saucepan. After the soup has boiled gently for 
half an hour, add a cup of hot water, then let it cook for 
another hour, then it is ready for lundieon. Meantime take 
two slices of bread and cut them into little squares, lay 
them on a dean tin plate, and slip them into the oven to dry 
and toast. They are fine to eat with the soup. 

Broiled Chops and Potatoes 

Lay SIX little chops on the gridiron and broil them over the 
coals. Turn first on one side, then on the other, until they 

581 



5^2 £a8X Recipes for tKe Little CooK 

are done; then carefully lay them on a warm platter, putting 
a little butter, pepper, and salt on each one, and set them on 
the edge of the oven to wait. Pare and slice lengthways 
four cold boiled potatoes, take a little piece of buttered 
paper and grease the wires of the gridiron, then broil the 
potatoes just as the chops were broiled, only watch them 
carefully for they bum quickly. When they are done lay 
them around the chops, putting butter, pepper, and salt on 
each, and lay a few sprays of fresh crisp parsley on the dish 
where it looks the prettiest. 

Spring Salad 

Take all the white leaves of a nice crisp head of lettuce 
and wash them carefully ; line the salad bowl with the largest 
leaves, cut the rest in pieces with the kitchen scissors. 
Count two dozen bright red radishes, wash them carefully, 
cut off the t^s and tops, and slice them thin; take one nice 
cucumber, pare and slice it very thin, mix all together and 
lay in the center of the salad dish. Now take three table- 
spoons of olive oil, just a little pepper, a saltspoon of salt, a 
tablespoon of tarragon vinegar, mix carefully and turn over 
the salad. Serve at once. 

Brown Betty Pudding 

Put into a chopping bowl enough stale bread so that when 
it is chopped up there will be two cups. Pare, quarter, and 
core enough apples to make a cup and a half when they 
are chopped fine, mix them with the bread and a cup of 
sugar, a grating of nutmeg, and turn them into a well but- 
tered baking dish. Bake until they are a delicate brown. 

Now for the pudding sauce, take one cup of sugar and a 
half cup of butter, let them stand where it is warm for a few 
minutes, then with a strong spoon carefully cream them to- 
gether. When they are all creamy and smooth add a half 
teaspoon of vanilla flavoring and a grating of nutmeg, pile 



Easy Recipes for tKe Little CooK 5S3 

in a little bowl, and put in a cool place until the pudding is 
done and ready to serve. 

Quick Muffins 

One heaping cup of flour, three quarters of a teaspoon of 
baking powder, teaspoon of sugar, and a half teaspoon of 
salt. Mix all together and beat one egg in a cup of milk; 
mix this with the flour, then add enough plain milk to make 
a thick batter, — mother will tell you when it is just right. 
Butter little muffin pans and fill them half full, then bake 
them about fifteen minutes, according to the oven. 

Junket 

Take one quart of milk and warm it but do not scald it. 
Add to it a teaspoon of Shinns liquid rennet, a half a cup of 
sugar, and a dessertspoon of vanilla flavoring. Turn into a 
mold and set aside in a cool place to firm. 



CHILDREN'S PARTIES 

For wee people early parties are considered best by 
thoughtful mothers, for then regular suppers and habits are 
not interfered with; so from 3 to 6 o'clock is the favorite 
time. The invitations are generally written by the mother, 
as hostess, but the children's party paper may be used if 
preferred. 

For children from six to ten years old the games chosen 
must be selected with an eye to keeping all amused at 
the same time. 

In many instances there is a Punch and Judy show, a 
prestidigitator, or an expert with a stereopticon or moving 
picture machine. Sometimes a woman professional plans 
and leads the games. Where this is not done, then the 
mother has to be the leading spirit. 

For a Dutch party the table centerpiece is a big windmill 
Jack Homer pie, filled with little gifts in toys and other 
reminders of Holland. The refreshments include a ntmiber 
of cakes and cookies made from Holland recipes, with 
real honey loaf sandwiches. The costumes are those fa- 
miliar to us in Dutch paintings. 

An appropriate fall party is a "Puritan party," to which 
the girls come in gray gowns and white kerchiefs, and the 
boys garbed like diminutive William Penns. The games 
for this, party include a corn-shelling contest, winding yarn 
on spindles, and a number of old-fashioned games which 
are new to this generation. The refreshments are marble 
cake and doughnuts served with floating island. 

For older children there are travel parties which have a 
little educational note running through them. Animal 
parties are especially pleasing to boys, and they glory in 

584 



CHildrens Parties 5^5 

having on a dangerous animal headpiece which strikes terror 
to the hearts of little girls. For the centerpiece in this case 
an elephant is the " Pie " and the favors are stowed away in 
the elaborate carrying saddle on his ample back. 

The salmagundi idea solves the diffictdty of keeping all 
amused at the same time. At each table, at which four 
children play, is a different game. There is a first and a 
second prize table, and the winners advance after each game. 
Parchesi, jackstraws, table baseball, Uncle Sam's mail, mixed 
pickles, puzzle building, electric questioner, and any of the 
new games that will be found in variety in the toy shops may 
be used. Then, after a game of blind man's buff, magical 
music, or "throw the handkerchief, " they will be glad to sit 
down for their refreshments, which should be ready at 4.45 
o'clock, so that they may have a little fun afterward with 
their mottoes and prizes before it is time to start for home. 

While the games are going on, if the children are thirsty 
it is a good idea to serve pure water with a light flavoring 
of natural fruit juice. Orange, lemon, pineapple, or grape 
juice will do nicely. 

Mother Goose or the vegetable place cards create much 
merriment, and with a huge Jack Homer pie for a center- 
piece and favors at each plate, the bonbon baskets, cake 
baskets, silver sandwich plates, plates and napkins, the 
necessary flat ware and glasses will be sufficient on the 
table. The favors should be of some slight value, so that 
they may be kept as souvenirs. 

There is nothing in the following simple menu suggested 
that can possibly upset the children, and the only harm it 
will do is to destroy the appetite for the simple dinner or tea 
when they get home. 

Menu 

Small Cups of Bouillon with Toast Fingers 

Breast of Chicken, Sandwiches, Cocoa 

Vanilla Ice Cream, Chocolate or Fruit Sauce 

Cake, Bonbons, Favors 



586 CHildren's Parties 

Make the botiillon in the usual way» adding a spoon of 
whipped cream as it is served and put a toast finger on 
each saucer. 

The sandwiches may have any of the various fillings that 
appeal to children. For instance, cream cheese, orange 
marmalade, minced chicken, minced tongue, chopped 
watercress and sweet butter, and finely minced roast beef 
with salt are all popular. 

The refreshments offered for the parties of yotmger 
children whose invitations read "from 3 to 5" are rather 
simple, and are served in buffet fashion. For those invited 
"from 4 to 7" it is best to seat the guests at the table 
and have a light dinner. If light refreshments only are 
served, they will probably be htmgry when they return 
home. This is their regular supper time, and they will be 
unusually himgry with all the excitement. 

Buffet Menu 

Small Cups of Bouillon, with Toast Fingers 
Chicken Salad, Apple and Celery Salad, Fruit 

Salad 

Sandwiches, Cocoa 

Vanilla Ice Cream, Choice of Sauces, Cake 

Bonbons, Fruit Favors 

The refreshments for the little ones should be served at 
fotir o'clock so as not to interfere with the dinner later on. 
Make the bouillon the usual way. Use a good deal of celery 
with the chicken salad, and make light mayonnaise without 
mustard. The same applies to the celery and apple salad. 
A little pineapple juice added to the dressing improves the 
flavor. The fruit salad, after it is chilled, may be dusted 
with sugar or a cold boiled dressing may be used. The 
sandwiches can be filled with varied fillings children like — 
cream cheese and orange marmalade, cream cheese with 
purfe of chestnuts, minced chicken with mayonnaise, 
minced tongue with spinach mustard, chopped watercress 



Children's Parties 5^7 

and sweet butter, chopped banana with lemon juice and 
sugar. The breads may be varied, and whole wheat, rye, 
and gluten be used, cut thin and the crusts removed. Cut 
into fancy shapes before buttering. 

For small children the plain cakes, macaroons, and lady 
fingers are most wholesome. Bonbons will add all the 
extreme sweet that the feast demands. If fruit is served 
grapes and bananas will be least troublesome to small 
guests. 

Dinner Refreshments 

Chicken Bouillon, Whipped Cream 

Creamed Codfish Baked in Ramekins 

Chicken Croquettes, Peas, Creamed Sweetbreads 

Baked Potatoes, Rolls 

Lettuce, Cream Cheese, Walnut Salad 

Floating Island, Ice Cream 

Bonbons, Fruit 

Shred the codfish (cold boiled) and cream it, put it into 
buttered ramekins and bake. A choice of the croquettes 
and sweetbreads will be expressed by the small guests, but 
all love baked potatoes and little hot raised rolls, buttered 
with fresh butter. Take a package of cream cheese, add salt, 
a little pepper, a dash of sugar, and enough sweet cream to 
make a paste, work in a tablespoon of chopped walnuts, 
make into balls, sticking a half walnut on either side. 
Drop on lettuce leaves and make the mayonnaise with the 
walnut oil, instead of the olive oil, garnish with olives and 
rings of the whites of eggs, cold boiled. All young people are 
fond of floating island. Many prefer it to ice cream. After 
the rich, boiled custard is made, use the whites of four or 
six eggs, beaten stiff with a little sugar, then baked or rather 
browned a couple of minutes in the oven. They are more 
decorative and have more flavor than if they were raw. 

French vanilla cream is best to serve, and chocolate and 
strawberry sauces will be choice enough. 



588 Children's Parties 

The folding candy store is an English favor. When 
opened it stands upright, has a counter, and looks like a real 
store inside. Candy containers representing candy fruits, 
life size, are passed like the real thing, and candy charlotte 
russe, pie, and other desserts are served like the real thing, 
on candy plates with a candy fork. This always creates 
much merriment. 

Paper favors come in great variety. The vegetables are 
very natural in appearance and each contains a little favor. 
A great, big red radish eighteen inches long contains eight 
favors, while a pineapple twenty-seven inches tall and large 
arotmd in proportion contains sixteen gifts. 

Among other favors of interest are packages of Russian 
ninepins, Russian nested toys, toy wooden barrels with 
carved figures dancing on top and containing miniature tea 
sets; tiny hand-crocheted dolls in characteristic costiunes, 
small accordions with a witch and a cat dancing on top, and 
black cats whose green eyes light electrically when their 
tail is pinched. 

Baskets of all kinds to fill with candy include little market 
and latindry baskets; tiny flower-trimmed hat boxes, 
ribbon-tied, contain one favor each. There are also flower 
pots of roses with each blossom holding a snap favor, and 
barnyard animal favors of all descriptions. 

Dainty fairies are used for place cards, and are very airy 
and quite decorative. Chicken place cards are in high 
favor, and a wreath of roses with a fairy in the center, which 
hangs from the water glass, is most attractive. 



SCHOOL LUNCHEONS 

With the beginning of the autumn school dajrs, the 
mother's problem of what to put in the daily lunch-baskets 
of her children that will be at once nourishing, inviting, and 
simple to prepare, again confronts her. 

The putting-up of lunches is, with a growing family, as 
endless a task, apparently, as the daily housework, yet it 
can be lightened a bit by a little consistent planning ahead, 
such as at an odd free moment sitting down, and, with paper 
and pencil in hand, mapping out a few general Itmches, that 
may be varied as materials on hand may suggest, and it 
will be a wonderful help when the time comes. 

Boys want everything simple and quickly to be disposed 
of, so the folding lunch-box and a paper napkin are all they 
are willing to stand for, in the way of the decencies of life. 
Little girls, however, enjoy the modem baskets that are 
fitted up with the little white ware plate, cup, knife, fork, 
and spoon, and the milk bottle with the glass screwed on the 
top. The comfort qtdte compensates them for the trouble 
of packing up the dishes for the return trip. Of course, 
the paper napkins and wax paper are necessities and should 
be bought early in the season, in quantity. 

All home-made jams, jellies, and pickles are the most 
wholesome; and in making cake, the sponge cake, ginger- 
bread, raisin pound cake, and cookies will be found most 
acceptable. They will not be so quickly tired of, and are 
easier packed than the layer variety. 

The little individual puddings made in ramekins, such as 
rice, prune, tapioca, or custard, make an agreeable change 
and are quite popular. Sandwich bread should be at least 

589 



59^ School LixncHeons 

one day old before tising, so it must be ordered ahead of time. 
The butter must be soft enough to spread easily, but never 
should be melted. If it is wished to have the sandwiches 
richer than ordinary, add whipped cream to the butter and 
beat it lightly with a fork. 

Nuts, olives, bonbons, or home-made candy may be in 
turn the daily "surprise," and are welcome always to the 
child. Fruits of all kinds, lettuce, and all the green things 
that are to be had are healthy, and appetizing as well. 

Eggs must be used with discretion, and not too often, 
as they are apt to become distasteful, thus cutting off a 
valuable food product from the list. They may be deviled, 
hard-boiled, fried, or chopped in mayonnaise, for sandwich 
use. Tartlets or individual pies are great favorites, also, 
with children. Cream cheese and Swiss cheese are liked 
by most children, boys especially, and will not be objected 
to by sensible mothers as a one-time change used oc- 
casionally. 

If the joints of cold fowls are put in the lunch, wrap 
them in wax paper, and don't forget a little paper of pepper 
and salt mixed, to go with them. If cold boiled eggs are 
given, peel them and wrap them in wax paper the same way, 
for they keep perfectly fresh and are so much less trouble 
to the child. Now, the cold meat sandwiches should be 
thin, the meat sliced thin and evenly laid on, and the butter 
not too thickly spread; ham, lamb, tongue, rare beef, 
chicken, and turkey are all good for this kind of sandwiches. 

The minced fillings are also very popular with children, 
and may be varied by adding chopped nuts, olives, celery, 
peppers, or chow-chow with almost any kind of cold meat. 

If sardines, salmon, cold codfish, lobster, or crab meat is 
liked, add pepper, salt, and lemon jtiice, which is better than 
the richer dressings. The crisp fried bacon sandwich, or 
even the "frankfurter and roll," are not to be despised when 
in search for a hurry-up variety on a busy day. The 
adding of condiments to the fillings must be done accord- 
ing to what the mother thinks on the subject, as there 



ScHool I^uncheons 591 

are a great many who feel prejudiced against highly seasoned 
food for children, so the sauces may be added or left as she 
thinks fit. 

Simple chicken salad, fruit salads, or vegetable salads 
are usually liked by children, and may be carried in the little 
paper pail, which when empty can be thrown away. Despite 
the newer things for luncheon purposes, the sandwich will 
also be called upon to do its duty, and may be invitingly 
varied by means of white, rye, whole wheat, raisin, brown, 
and gluten breads. The fillings are also legion from which 
to choose. 

Too great importance cannot be attached to fresh fruit, 
which it is almost always easy to procure, for even in the 
winter months bananas, oranges, and certain kinds of apples 
are plentiful and cheap. 

Do not forget that a little "surprise" for each day's 
luncheon always delights a child, no matter of what it may 
consist. 

Fish Fancy 

Shred one cup of boiled codfish and let it stand for twenty 
minutes in French dressing, to which the juice of one large 
onion has been added; then drain and add one hard-boiled 
egg and three oHves chopped fine. Add enough mayonnaise 
to make a spreading paste, use whole-wheat bread cut in 
triangles, and serve with a spray of watercress on top. 

Vegetable Mac6doine 

Take one bottle of mac^doine vegetables and boil in fair 
water until done enough to mash. Then add juice of 
an onion, a half saltspoon of pepper, a saltspoon of salt, and 
a rounding teaspoon of butter. When cool, add a gill of 
whipped cream and beat to a paste. Lay upon rye bread, 
cut in heart shape. 



59^ School LxsncHeons 

Suxpiise Sandwich 

Put two cups of freshly stewed green peas through the 
pur^ sieve, add a teaspoon of butter, a half saltspoon of 
pepper and a saltspoon of salt, and a teaspoon of cream; 
let cool, then add two tablespoons of grated pineapple and 
if the mixture is not quite thin enough to spread, add a 
little cream. Use gluten bread cut in rounds. 

Ham and Chow-Chow 

Chop cold boiled ham very fine and chop one third as 
much chow-chow pickle; blend together and add a little 
of the mustard the pickles are put up in; use rye bread. 

Sweetbread and Chestnut Paste 

Parboil a pair of sweetbreads in slightly salted water. 
Cool, and chop fine, adding pepper and salt. Make from 
any reliable recipe a chestnut sauce. Add the sweetbreads 
and let cool in a small square mold. Slice thin and lay up 
with white bread, cut in rounds. 



SANDWICHES FOR ALL OCCASIONS 

Sandwich bread a day old, whole wheat bread, and rye 
loaf are the best for sandwich ttse. Fresh beaten butter with 
a little whipped cream added is the next consideration. If 
the sandwiches are to be kept, place them in a damp linen 
doth in a cool place; if to be packed and carried, wrap 
them in wax paper and place them in a tin box. 

Be sure that all materials are at hand before beginning 
to make the sandwiches. Cutters for ordinary use are 
round, oblong, square, fish-tailed, and leaf-shaped. Those 
popular for card parties are in diamonds, hearts, dubs, and 
spades. Rolled and ribbon-tied sandwiches are also made. 

The bread-crusts, trimmings, and leftover odds and ends 
from sandwich making if thrown into a stewpan with a can 
of tomatoes and a bunch of savory herbs will make a good 
stock for sauces. 

Some of the new sandwiches have no cover. If they do, 
they often have a figure cut out of the cover and an olive, 
cherry, or a teaspoon of mayoxmaise placed in the hole. 

If celery, lettuce, olives, peppers, or cress are to be used 
they should be allowed to chill before using. Tomatoes 
and fruit are also pared and chilled. 

Chicken livers, sweetbreads, chicken, or shellfish should 
be boiled and cooled before using. Mayonnaise dressing is 
best made heavy and must be cold. 

Now a word as to the use of brown bread. The slices 
should be cut thick and a loaf one day old is all right for 
ordinary use. Bread having a dose grain and no raisins in 
it is the most satisfactory. 

Nuts should be blanched, and chopped or ground before 

^ . 593 



594 Sand-wiches for all Occasions 

they are needed. Fish pastes can be made in the morning 
and are all the better for seasoning through. 

Tongue and Horseradish 

Mince finely one cup of fresh boiled tongue. Add to it a 
teaspoon of freshly grated horseradish, a few drops of tarra- 
gon, and enough whipped cream to make a spreading paste. 
Use whole wheat bread, cut in heart shape. 

Beef and Raisin Paste 

Take two slices of rare roast beef free from fiber and fat, 
seed four large raisins, three olives, one tiny stalk of celery, 
chop all together very fine. Add a few drops of onion juice, 
a saltspoon of pepper, a saltspoon of salt, and a teaspoon 
of English mustard. Mix all to a paste, spread lightly on 
buttered slice, lay over three or four sprays of watercress 
and the top slice. 

Spanish Paste 

Three olives, one red Spanish pepper, a chicken liver that 
has been boiled and cooled, a thin slice of boiled ham, minced 
all together very fine, and add one tablespoon of cream 
cheese, the juice of an onion, a half saltspoon of salt, and a 
saltspoon of pepper, and mix all into a smooth paste; if not 
quite moist enough add one spoon of whipped cream. Keep 
cool until ready for use, cut in diamond or triangle shapes, 
and garnish with cress. 

Oyster Sandwich 

Take a pint of oysters, drain, and let the liquor come to a 
boil. When it boils, drop in the oysters, let them stay until 
the beard curls, then remove from the fire and drain. Let 
the ojrsters get cold, but do not chill them. When ready 
to lay up the sandwiches, mix the oysters with heavy may- 
onnaise and lay four oysters on the sandwich square. 



Sand-wicHes for all Occasions 595 

After laying on the top slice cut it square and garnish with 
cross strips of red pepper. 

Tuna Sandwich 

Flake a small can of tunafish, add a tablespoon of 
chopped watercress, and allow it to marinate in French 
dressing, to which the juice of an onion has been added. 
Drain carefully and lay on thinly spread rye rounds. Gar- 
nish with thin strips of red pepper. 

Minced Cold Roast Beef 

Mince the beef, then season with pepper, salt, a teaspoon 
of mustard sauce, and a teaspoon of chopped tarragon 
leaves. Lay upon rye bread. 

Hot Biscuit Chicken Mayonnaise 

Chop the breast of a chicken quite fine with six olives, a 
strip of pepper, and a tiny stalk of celery. Add mayonnaise 
to make a good paste and season to taste. Before doing 
this, make tiny raised biscuit, tear them apart, spread, and 
add the filling. Serve hot on a lettuce leaf. Sweetbreads 
are delicious used in the same way. 

Chicken liver Sandwich 

Take the livers, gizzards, and hearts of three chickens 
that have been boiled tender and chop them very fine, add 
one stalk of celery, one gherkin, a strip of green pepper, 
three olives, and two tablespoons of walnut meats, all 
chopped fine. Then moisten one package of cream cheese 
with cream, add a saltspoon of pepper, a half teaspoon of 
salt, a tablespoon of chutney syrup and work all smoothly 
together, using as much sweet cream as is needed to make 
a good spreading paste. Lay up the sandwiches on white 
bread. 



59^ Sand-wicHes for all Occasions 

Chicken and Cress 

Take the dark meat of the chicken left from the salad, 
chop fine, add a saltspoon of pepper, a half teaspoon of salt, 
two tablespoons of chopped watercress and the juice of an 
onion; mix well, and when ready to make the sandwiches 
use rye bread and add heavy mayonnaise to make a spread- 
ing paste of the mixture. 

Sausage Surprise 

Pry some good sausage until a delicate brown. Drain 
and chop fine; then mix with enough smooth, tart apple 
sauce to make a paste. Add a saltspoon of salt and a half 
saltspoon of pepper and lay up with thinly sliced bread. 
Garnish with cress. 

Baked Bean Sandwich 

Take one cup of baked beans, mash them fine, add a half 
saltspoon of pepper, a saltspoon of salt, a teaspoon of 
tarragon vinegar, and a tablespoon of ketchup. Spread 
lightly on white bread and serve garnished with a little roll 
of grilled bacon. It will be an improvement if the beans 
are put through a pur^ sieve, as all the skins will be re- 
moved before the condiments are added. 

Bavarian Sandwiches 

Boil one firm head of cauliflower until tender, though 
it should not be allowed in any way to fall apart. When 
cold slice it in thin sUces, dredge with flour, and fry in 
very hot butter until a delicate brown; sprinkle with pep- 
per and salt and lay on blotting paper to drain. When 
cold spread on thin slices of brown bread with fresh butter 
and cut wedge-shaped. 



Sandi^ches for all Occasions 597 

Minced Chicken and Mayonnaise 

Mince the chicken and add a tablespoon of chopped 
celery and enough mayonnaise to make a spreading mix- 
ture. Make sandwiches with white bread. 

Broiled Tomato Rounds 

Dip slices of fresh, firm tomatoes in eggs and crumbs 
and then brush with melted butter. Broil carefully and 
sandwich between rye bread rounds. 

Minced Tongue and Mannalade 

To a half a cup of minced tongue add two tablespoons 
of orange marmsdade, mix to a paste, and spread on thin 
slices of graham bread. 

Codettes 

Take a cup of fresh cold boiled codfish, flake with a fork, 
season with a saltspoon of pepper, the same amount of salt, 
a teaspoon of lemon juice, and a little tomato ketchup; mix 
well and spread on a lettuce leaf between thinly buttered 
rye slices. 

Roquefort Ryes 

Take a quarter pound of fresh Roquefort cheese and 
add whipped cream enough to make a spreading paste, add a 
quarter saltspoon of red pepper and spread on thin buttered 
dices of rye bread, cut heart shape, and garnish with cress. 

SWEET SANDWICHES 

Marshmallow Sandwich 

To two tablespoons of orange marmalade add two table- 
spoons of finely chopped nuts and a cup of marshmallow 
whip. Cut brown bread rounds, lay on a leaf of white 



59^ Sand-wicKes for all Occasions 

lettuce, and spread with the marshmallow mixture. These 
are very rich and will have to be eaten with a fork. 

Rose Jam Sandwiches 

Lay the sandwiches up with rye bread cut very thin and 
before spreading the jam cut the pieces petal shaped. Put 
the sandwiches on a lace doily and lay one pink rose on the 
side of the plate as a garnish. 

Frosted Sandwich 

Use white bread cut in oblong shapes spread with rhu- 
barb jelly. Frost the top of each with vanilla soft frosting 
and allow it to stand a few minutes and dry before serving; 
put a blanched almond on the top of each sandwich. 

Fresh fruit sandwiches are also newcomers and this is 
the way they are made (the proportions here given will 
make about two dozen little sandwiches each) : 

Apple Disks 

Slice and core a large Greening apple and fry in hot lard, 
drain on brown paper, sprinkle with a little salt, and lay on 
bread rounds while hot. 

Strawbeny Sandwich 

Wash, hull, and cut fine one quart of firm but ripe straw- 
berries; sprinkle with powdered sugar and place in a little 
white enamel strainer over a bowl to chill until ready 
to make the sandwiches. Cut white bread thin, spread 
lightly, and after cutting it in any desired shape, fill with 
the berry mixture. Serve individually with a fork and as 
soon after they are made as possible, before the fruit has 
time to stain and soften the bread. Grated pineapple, 
seeded and chopped cherries, apricots, and peaches may all 
be served in this way. Rhubarb jelly, gooseberry jelly, 



Sand-wicHes for all Occasions 599 

red raspbeny, blackberry, elderberry, mulberry, quince, 
green grape, mint, and rose may be combined with cream 
cheese or roquefort, with whole wheat bread. These are all 
delicious. 

Banana Sandwiches 

Slice the bananas thin and let them marinate in lemon 
juice, sugar, and a dash of nutmeg for half an hour, then 
drain and roll in chopped nuts and spread on whole wheat 
bread. 

Apple Butter and Cheese 

Mix with one package of cream cheese, two tablespoons 
of apple butter and a tablespoon of chopped nuts, add a 
little cream if the paste is not soft enough to spread, and 
lay upon gluten bread. 

Apple Sauce and Brown Bread 

Add to a little good apple sauce a tablespoon of chopped 
nuts, butter the bread rotmds with fresh butter, and spread 
with the mixture. 

Pineapple and Cream Cheese 

Soften a package of cream cheese with a little sweet cream, 
add a saltspoon of salt, a tablespoon of sugar and two table- 
spoons of freshly grated pineapple. Use with gluten bread. 

Cocoanut Sandwich 

Take three tablespoons of grated cocoanut and add a tea- 
spoon of chopped red pepper to it with a teaspoon of chutney 
syrup and enough mayonnaise to make the whole into a 
spreading paste. Lay upon thinly sliced, unbuttered whole 
wheat rounds. 



6oo Sand'wicHes for all Occasions 

Prune Sandwich 

Stew a pound of very large prunes in the usual way, add- 
ing a very little sugar. When done drain and allow them 
to cool, remove the pits, chop them fine, and add one cup of 
finely chopped pecans. Roll fine one dozen dry macaroons 
and add them to the mixture with enough strained honey 
to make a spreading paste. Make the sandwiches with rye 
bread and cut them in horseshoe shape. 

Marron Sandwich Filling 

Drain and pass through a sieve a half pint of preserved 
marrons; add to them a cream cheese and enough sweet 
cream to make a spreading paste; add pepper, salt, and three 
tablespoons of pineapple grated, and a teaspoon of grated 
English cheese; spread on thin rye bread rounds and serve 
with afternoon tea or with a good fruit salad. 

Minnehaha Filling 

Chop fine one cup of large seeded raisins, three quarters 
of a cup of nut meats, and one little branch of preserved 
Canton ginger, using a little of the ginger syrup to bind 
the Q:uxture. Spread on gluten bread, cut into diamonds, 
smear the top of each very lightly with a little of the ginger 
syrup, and dust with findy ground nut meats. 

Orange Sandwich Filling 

Add to one package of cream cheese a tablespoon of 
Roquefort cheese, a half teaspoon of salt, and a quarter 
saltspoon of red pepper. Then add enough sweet cream to 
make a paste and two tablespoons of orange marmalade 
which has the strips of peel through it. Use this with rye 
bread cut very thin and without butter. Cut in fancy 
shapes. 



Sand'vv'icHes for all Occasions 6oi 

Pear Sandwich 

Pare and remove the seed from one pear, mash the pulp 
smooth, rub in one teaspoon of olive oil, and add a saltspoon 
of salt, a half saltspoon of pepper, the juice of half a lemon, 
and a tablespoon of chutney S3niip. Spread upon thin 
whole wheat bread, and cut into rotmds. 

Mallow Whips 

Beat a half pint of marshmallow whip (which comes pre- 
pared) with^a tablespoon each of chopped raisins, dates, and 
walnuts, and one spray of preserved ginger. Spread on 
thin rounds of white bread and garnish with little strips of 
candied lemon peel. 

Biandylines 

Take one brandied peach, chop, and drain; add a half 
cake of cream cheese and enough whipped cream to make a 
spreading paste. Lay on white thin rounds, and garnish 
with strips of angeUca. 



CAMP COOKERY 

The main secrets of good meals in camp are to have a 
proper fire, good materials, and to understand the art of 
properly putting them together. The popularity of auto- 
mobile trekking has shown the itinerant camper the advis- 
ability of learning some of the camper's secrets especially 
the selection of a good camping ground, always near fresh 
water, and the correct making of the camp fire. 

The automobile has made picnicking the year arotmd a 
possibility. It has taken the place of the horse and wagon 
as the motor boat has replaced the old rowboat, enabling 
the picnickers to reach their destination in half the time once 
consimied in the journey, and making possible many more 
comforts than ever before. 

The trekking picnickers of to-day take along an auto- 
mobile tent, which is quickly and easily pitched, as the car 
forms part of its supports; it is so arranged that it forms 
a wind shield or an agreeable shade around the luncheon 
party. In this shelter a ground cloth is spread which, 
though light, is waterproof; on it the folding table is opened, 
around the table folding stools are set. 

The camp fire is built in front of the tent and this is the 
proper method to follow in building it: 

To Build fhe Camp Fire 

Take sound hard wood either green or dead, and split it 
into sticks of uniform thickness, say one and a quarter inch 
face. Lay down two bed sticks, cross these near the ends 
with two others, and so on up until you have a pen a foot 

602 



Camp CooKerx. ^3 

high. Start a fire in the pen. Then cover it with a layer 
of parallel sticks laid an inch apart. Cross this with a 
similar layer at right angles, and so upward for another 
foot. The free draft will make a roaring fire and all will 
bum down to coals together. This method of fire building 
will give a bed of coals in a short time, which is what the 
short-time camper desires. 

Flying 

Do not try to fry over a flaming fire or a deep bed of 
coals. Rake a thin layer of coals out in front of the fire; 
or, for a quick meal, make your fire of small dry sticks, no 
thicker than your finger, then boil water for the coffee over 
the flame and do the frying over the quickly formed coals. 

Broiling 

Broil when there is not time to roast, before a bed of glow- 
ing coals; the gridiron with legs will raise the meat or 
fish the proper distance from the fire. 

Roasting 

Build a rather large fire of split hard wood against a 
high backlog or wall of rocks which will reflect the heat 
forward. Place the article to be roasted in the folding 
oven, close to the fire, and proceed as you would when bak- 
ing in an oven. Baste the meat frequently with a long- 
handled spoon, turning it once during the roasting. 

The camp fire, built in front of the tent, has every con- 
venience to aid in preparing the meal. There are the folding 
oven, the gridiron with folding legs, and the nested cooking 
utensils with adjtistable handles. A small self -cooker, hold- 
ing one gallon of chicken fricassee, or any other hot meat 
dish, has its own place on the automobile, and when the 
picnic ground is reached there is nothing to do but serve 
the hot dish. 



6o4 Camp CooKen^ 

Inventors, too, have been busy, with the result that 
paper plates, cups, finger bowls and little baking cups, 
napkins, towels and dish cloths, tablecloths, wax and 
asbestos paper are all available for camp use, doing away 
with heavy dishes to wash and bother with. Thermos 
bottles, porcelain salad-carriers, cases with ice chests in 
them, and a dozen and one other conveniences now are 
offered that make the outing a picnic in every sense of 
the word. 

Folding canvas pails are used for carrying water, and a 
couple of light-weight sleeping bags, that roll tightly and 
need but little room, are cozy for an outdoor nap, with 
blankets and air pillows, especially if children are in the 
party. Altogether, with three or four seven-passenger 
machines, all loaded with congenial friends and plenty 
of good eatables, the winter trekking party is a very 
jolly affair. 

Concentrated soups are good to take along, if the weather 
is cold, for one package makes ten plates with the addition 
of the necessary water. 

Bouillon may be taken in jars, made rich enough to jell 
or thin enough to use hot or cold. 

Sandwiches and salads, and all the other picnic good 
things, are prepared at home and packed in hampers. The 
foods to be cooked over the camp fire are packed in a ham- 
per by themselves; they may include squabs, all trussed and 
ready for the broiler; creamed oysters, ready to reheat 
when the p&t^ shells have been warmed; potatoes to bake, 
tiny mince pies to be heated, individual meat or game pies, 
and any other good thing the outdoor hostess thinks her 
guests may enjoy. She can depend upon the thermos 
bottles to carry all the hot drinks, including the bouillon. 

Sandwich fillings for outdoor eating are not as dainty, 
perhaps, as those for indoor functions, for the fresh air 
makes one too hungry to be particular. Here are a few 
tried and trusty ones that everyone will enjoy, and that in 
the open are most appetizing. 



Camp CooKery 605 

Onion Filling 

Slice very thinly the needed amount of Spanish onions, 
dust them with salt, pepper, and a few drops of lemon juice. 
Cut the crusts from square slices of whole wheat bread and 
smear very thinly with anchovy paste, then lay on the 
onion. In making these sandwiches, p&ti de foie gras may 
be used instead of the anchovy paste if desired. 

Savoiy Filling 

Take one cream cheese and add to it a chicken liver that 
has been boiled and chopped, a teaspoon of chopped pecan 
nuts, the juice of an onion, a small piece of celery chopped 
very fine, with a strip of green pepper and a gherkin pickle. 
Mold to a smooth paste, adding a teaspoon of Worcestershire 
sauce and one of chutney. syrup. Serve on wheat bread 
rounds. 

Chestnut Filling 

Boil until tender, after peeling and blanching, a quart of 
chestnuts; mash them and add a lump of butter, a dash of 
nutmeg, a pinch of salt, and enough honey to make a 
spreading paste. Serve on whole wheat bread squares. 

Liver Savory Filling 

Take a half pound of the liver sausage (leberwurst), 
remove it from its casing, and add to it the juice of an 
onion, a half saltspoon of salt, a saltspoon of pepper and a 
tablespoon of Worcestershire sauce. Grate in one onion 
and work the mixttire to a smooth paste. Serve on rye 
bread rounds. 

Cheese and Chive Filling 

Take a cream cheese and work to a smooth paste, with a 
little sweet cream; add a saltspoon each of pepper and salt. 



6o6 Camp CooKery 



the juice of a small onion, and a tablespoon of. chopped 
chives. Serve on slices of brown bread. 

Fried Apple Filling 

Slice thickly and core six tart apples. Fry the slices in 
hot fat to a delicate brown and lay the hot slices on whole 
wheat bread rounds, that have been lightly spread with an- 
chovy paste, dust with pepper and salt, and a pinch of sugar. 

Sausage and Apple Filling 

Take some well seasoned sausage meat and mold it into 
pats, rather thin, and the size of the bread rounds; fry a 
delicate brown and drain. When cool, lightly dip in thick 
apple sauce and serve as sandwiches. 

Cranberry jam, grapefruit marmalade, and tomato jelly 
with mayonnaise are also good for fillings in hearty out- 
door sandwiches. 

Sandwiches keep much better if wrapped before putting 
into the hamper in linen cloths that have been wrung out of 
cold water. Cutting them in fancy shapes is hardly advis- 
able, as they do not pack so well, and if they are left square 
with the crusts cut oflE they are just as dainty for the outdoor 
appetites. 

^ The meat pies may be carried in the pans they are baked 
in, placing them on sheets of cardboard with a sheet between 
each layer of the pies; then do them up in brown paper. 
They make a very pleasing change, which a trial will convince 
the picnicker of. 

Fruit pies may be made and carried in the same way, 
providing the juice is thick enough to jell. Small lemon 
pies are especially good made with a latticed crust instead 
of a meringue so that they carry well. 

Layer cakes are hard to manage, but pound and other 
slicing cakes are all right, fruit tarts can be managed by 



6o7 

packing them in layers in a deep box and placing a sheet of 
cardboard between each layer. 

Besides the deviled crabs, which are always good, there 
are the lobster ramekins, that are quite new, and they may 
be packed like the tarts, with pasteboard between each 
layer. If one chances to have a guest or two who are on 
the meatless diet it is not a bad idea to have a cold nut 
loaf to offer them with their bread and butter; also cheese, 
vegetable, and fruit sandwiches, which they can enjoy freely. 

As salads are so much nicer made fresh, it is a good idea 
to make and bottle the kind of dressing that is to be used, 
and after washing the lettuces put them into a linen salad bag 
and lay them against the ice; the meat, fish, or vegetables 
may be prepared with the celery chopped and put into the 
salad carrier. It will take but a few minutes to finish the 
salad on arrival at the picnic ground. If the carrier is 
tightly covered the salad material will not dry out. Eggs 
that are cold boiled for the salad garnish should be wrapped 
in wax paper and put on top of the salad until it is time to 
use them. Eggs that are deviled should be wrapped in wax 
paper and dropped into an ordinary egg box with the 
compartments, so they will carry in perfect condition. 

If the juice of three or four dozen lemons is squeezed 
and strained into a bottle, then put in the hamper next 
the ice, and three pounds of sugar is melted in one pint of 
boiling water and allowed to cool, then put into another 
bottle, lemonade will be a simple matter to make and can be 
made in any quantity as it is needed. 



t '< \ 



CASSEROLE COOKERY 

A KNOWLEDGE of casserole cookery will be found qtiite 
valuable, eoonomically speaking, for the woman who cooks 
for a small family. It is often difficult to market wisely and 
well for two people so as not to have food left over each day. 
But the casserole dish, in many instances, will make yes- 
terday's extravagance to-day's economy, thus allowing a 
greater variety of choice in foods without danger of waste. 

The casserole has one advantage over other modes of 
cooking in that it cooks slowly and thoroughly the foods 
that require such cooking without making them dry and 
tasteless. The old-fashioned pipkin, the earthen dish with 
a cover used on top of the stove, and the old pot-roast 
pots with grating, in the bottoms, were the forerunners of the 
casserole. 

Almost any kind of food, from soup to preserves, may be 
cooked in tiie casserole, but for braising meat, stewing, 
pot-roasting, and the stewing of fruit or vegetables they 
are especially reconmiended. A medium and slowly rising 
oven is right for casserole cooking, with the steady heat 
kept at 212^ P. 

In using recipes for various dishes to be cooked in the 

usual ways, but which one may wish to try in the casserole, 

double the cooking time given. For instance, a stew that 

calls for one hour cooking in the usual way should be given 

two hours to cook in the casserole; or meat pie that calls for 

thirty minutes cooking should be cooked an hour. Another 

point to remember in using the covered casserole is that 

only enough liquid, sauce, stock, cream, or whatever liquid 

the recipe calls for, should be used to cover the solid food 

608 



Casserole CooKerx 6o9 

of which the dish is composed. The liquid does not cook 
away as in other methods of cooking; consequently, if too 
much is used, when the jtiices cook from the solid food, the 
entire dish becomes too wet, and is imattractive. 

If a sauce requires thickening, before sending the casserole 
to table remove the cover and stir in the thickening evenly ; 
replace the cover and allow the cooking to go on for a few 
minutes more before serving. If the family diimer hour is 
likely to be delayed, there is no food which keeps in better 
condition for a greater length of time than that cooked 
in the casserole. 

The earthenware casserole dishes are good to use in cook- 
ing on top of the stove foods that are to be served in other 
dishes, or for preserving. It is always wise to use an asbes- 
tos mat under the casserole when cooking on a gas or elec- 
tric stove, and to set it away from the hottest part of a coal 
range. For the oven there are the pretty, covered glazed 
casseroles, green or brown on the outside and white within, 
and those which are still newer made of heavy glass. The 
glass dishes hold a more intense heat than the others and 
one may watch the process of the cooking without raising 
the lid. Silver and nickel insets come for dishes of all sizes. 

If one is going in for this method of cooking seriously 
dishes of several sizes will be required, including one large 
enough to boil fish, chicken, or ham. As the dishes are 
rather expensive they should be well cared for. When new, 
fill them with water and let it slowly come to boiling point, 
remain at boiling point for an hour, then allow it to slowly 
cool. This prepares the dish for use and prevents cracking. 
Wash the dishes in warm soapsuds, but never scrape or 
scratch them so as to mar the glaze. 

Though there are a number of recipes scattered through 
this book that are suitable for casserole cookery, especially 
in stewed and creamed foods, the following are some par- 
ticularly adapted to this use. Untised, tough, or rag ends 
of steak, portions of braised or fried cutlets, pieces of roast 
beef or lamb, chops or chicken, boiled or broiled fish, vege- 

39 



6io Casserole CooKerx 

tables or macaroni combinations may all be converted into 
excellent casserole dishes with but little time and trouble 
after one has learned how. 

Guinea Fowl in Casserole 

Clean and truss the fowl in the usual way for boiling. Let 
it boil in a covered casserole until tender, adding a bud of 
garlic, a bay leaf, three cloves, and a celery stalk to the 
water. When done take up the fowl, and when slightly cool 
joint it and arrange it in a well buttered casserole dish. 
Heap in the center two cups of potato balls cut with a cutter 
and arrange a border of thinly sliced carrots and peas around 
the edge ; make a rich brown gravy, using a little of the stock 
the fowl was boiled in, about a cup of it, with a cup of 
strained tomato juice and the jtiice of an onion. Season 
well and thicken, with a little browned flour creamed with 
butter, to the consistency of cold honey, then turn it over 
the fowl. Cover and cook from one and a half hotu^ to two 
hours in a medium oven. Fresh chicken may be cooked in 
the same way only using a cream sauce, or cold fried, 
broiled, or boiled chicken that may be at hand from the day 
before can be used up in this way. 

Beefsteak Rolls 

In buying a large steak, the best cut of sirloin, have the 
butcher cut the tender part of the steak ready for broiling 
and the flank end let him split with a sharp knife into two 
thin slices. Lay the broiling steak away for next day, and 
take the flaps and lay them out on a platter. Make a good 
savory stuffing after any of the recipes given under that 
heading. Spread the flaps lightly with butter, then a layer 
of the stuffing, and roll them pinning them with wooden 
toothpicks or tying them with Idtchen tape. Cut them in 
half to form four little rolls and lay them in a buttered 
casserole. Have ready two cups of string beans that have 
been carefully strung and boiled tender, drain and lay them 



Casserole CooKerx 6ii 

in the center of the dish» turn over all a good, smooth, well 
seasoned tomato sauce, and cook for an hour or a little longer. 
If it has seemed best to broil all the steak, then what remains 
over may be used in the same way, but to have it tender it 
will have to be cooked a little while longer. If one likes 
them, six kidneys may be boiled until tender, throwing off the 
water seven times during the boiling, and be added to the 
sauce. 

Cabbage Surprise 

Take one small firm cabbage, cut out the heart, strip apart 
the leaves and wash them carefully. Chop coarsely and put 
in a buttered casserole. Turn over the cabbage two cups 
of rich milk, dust it with pepper and salt and a teaspoon 
of sugar, cover, and cook for two hours. Take any cold 
cooked vegetables that are at hand and chop them, mix a 
heaping teaspoon of cornstarch in a little cream, open the 
casserole, arrange the chopped vegetables as a border, add 
the thickening, and cook a half hour longer, then serve. 

Fish Pudding 

Take cold boiled cod, halibut, or tilefish left from a boiled 
fish dinner, free it from skin and bone, then flake it with 
a silver fork. Put a layer of the fish in a buttered casserole 
dish, then a layer of finely minced onion, dry crumbs, and 
chopped cold boiled potato, dust with pepper and salt, dot 
with lumps of butter, then add another layer of fish, and so 
on tmtil it is all used. Add one cup of cream, two table- 
spoons of melted butter, and a teaspoon of sugar. Cover 
and cook in meditun oven an hour and a half; the last 
fifteen minutes remove the cover to let it brown lightly 
on top. Oysters or clams are good cooked in this way. Or 
fish that is left or shell food either may be put into a hot New- 
burg sauce, after being flaked, and then turned into a cas- 
serole dish to cook for a half hour, either of which makes an 
excellent dish. Serve with grilled potatoes and peas. 



6i2 Casserole CooKerx 

Veal Ragout 

This is a cheap and good dish as well. Take six veal 
chops (loin not rib) and trim them from the bones (which 
may be added to the stock pot) . Dip the pieces of meat into 
flour and brown them quickly in hot butter. Put the 
meat into the casserole dish and after adding a cup of stock 
to the butter the meat was fried in, seasoning and thicken- 
ing it, turn it over the meat. Put six boiled artichokes in the 
center and cook in the oven one hour. 

Hambisiger Steak 

For two people, have a pound of top rotmd steak chopped 
fine and a wee bit of fat chopped with it. Pare one large 
Spanish onion or two white onions, then chop them fine 
and sautd them in butter until they are done and are a 
delicate brown. Spread part of the onion on the bottom of 
a small casserole dish, then lay on the steaks, spreading the 
rest of the onions on top with the butter they were cooked 
in. Dust with pepper and salt, then pour over all a cup of 
rich stock, cover, and cook one hour. If desired the steak 
may be stirrounded with potato balls. 

Roast Beef Rosette 

To use up the remaining part of a rolled roast of beef, if 
one does not care for it cold, slice with a sharp knife as many 
perfect slices as possible, and trim them nicely. Then take 
all the scraps and chop them very fine, adding an onion and 
a half of a red pepper, a saltspoon of pepper and a half tea- 
spoon of salt, a half cup of bread crumbs, a half teaspoon of 
powdered herbs, and two teaspoons of chutney syrup. Mix 
the ingredients and after adding a tablespoon of melted 
butter add the stifiBy beaten white of one egg. Spread 
the stuffing between each slice of meat, piling them sand- 
vnch fashion in a buttered casserole. Take a large can of 
button mushrooms, drain them, and lay them arotmd the 



Casserole CooKery 613 

edge with a dozen little potato balls and turn over all a cup 
and a half of brown sauce, the recipe for which will be found 
with the gravies and sauces. Cover and bake in a medium 
oven for an hour and a half. This will be sufficient for four 
persons if there have been eight perfect slices of meat, if less 
then there will be enough for three. Cold leg of lamb may 
be used up in the same way, using a white sauce instead of 
the brown sauce. Again roast veal may be fixed in this way, 
using a tomato sauce and a ring of boiled rice instead of the 
mushrooms. 

Baked Calf's Liver 

Buy one pound of milk liver and instead of having it 
sliced have it split nearly through. Wash it, lard the thick 
part with bacon, and fill the opening with a savory stuffing. 
Lay in a buttered casserole, garnish the top with sliced 
hard-boiled eggs and sliced truffles, dust with pepper and 
salt, and turn over a half gill of melted butter, a small 
tumbler of melted currant jelly, and a wineglass of madeira 
wine. Cover and cook an hour and a half in a meditmi 
oven. This is an especially savory dish for three people 
and not expensive though it is a little troublesome to 
make. 



DIDEZ 



A 



Aguacate, Cream Soup, 73 

Escalloped, 270 
Alligator Pear, Canap6, 30 
Escalloped, 370 
Relish, 34 
Soup, 83 

Cream, 72, 84 
Almond, Balls, 91 
Cake, 458 
Green, and Cantaloupe Salad^ 

Green, and Mirabelle Salad, 

lang, 465 

Milk, 533 

Pudding, 387 

Rolls, 504 

Sauce, 486 

Soup, 83 
Ambrosia Sauce, 359 
Anchovy, Canape, 31 

Sauce, 338 
Angel Cake, 458 
Apple, Baked, Pudding, 415 

Boiled, 370 

Cake, 470 

Cheesecake, 470 

Custard, 574 

Dumpling, 437 

Float, 576 

Ginger, 434 

Menngues, 434 

P&ste, 503 

Peppers, 393 

Pie, 444, 445, 448 

Snow, 434 

Soup, 84, 85 

Strudel, 437 

Tapioca, 575 

Trifle, 413 

and Liver Rounds, 159 
Apricoty Cream, 483 

Flip, 533 



Frozen, 484 

Jelly, 430, 537 

Paiiait, 493 

Pie, 445 

Poached, 437 

Pudding, 415 

Shortcake, 435 
Arrowroot Gruel, 556 
Artichokes, Pileted, 369 

Jerusalem, ^ la Tarragon, 370 
Salad, 343 
Soup, 64 

Relish, 36 
Asparagus, au Gratin, 373 

Balced, with Lettuce, 371 

Boiled, 370 

Canap^, 33 

Fried, 372 

in Aspic, 313 



TeUv, 540 
Pudding, 



_ 558 
Pur6e, 76 

Sauce, 339 

Souffl6, 371 

Soup, 64, 71 

and Lamb's Tongue Salad, 

344 
Aspic Jelhr, 357 

for Decoration, 258 

Austrian Apple Cakes, 470 

Strudel, 437 

Pancakes, 408 



B 



Bachelor's Omelet, 371 

Pudding, iii5 
Baked Beans, New England, 373 
Salad, 336 
with Honey, 159 
Pudding (Indian Suet), 433 
Soup, 44 
Baking Powder Dumplings, 90 
Banana, Baked, 373 



615 



6i6 



Index 



Banana — Conlinued 

Boats, 488 

Fried, 272 

Grilled, 207 

Mincemeat, 446 

Omelet, 377, 435 

PAt^, 166 

Peppers, 293 

Pickle, 546 

Pie, 445 

Popovers, 396 

Sa£Eul, 352 

ShortcaJce, 424 

SotifiBi6, 435 

Trifle, 413 

Waffle, 404 

and Damson Tart, 428 

and French Sausage Cro- 
quette, 156 
Barbe de Capudn (Chicory Salad), 

332 
Barberxy Salad, 352 
Barley Gruel, 559 

&>up, 70 
Bass, Cold Filet of, 126 
Beans, Baked, New England, 273 
Salad, 336 
with Honey, 159 

Black, 275 
Beaten Biscuit, 402 
Bechamel Sauce, 236 
Beef, Notes on, 177 

k la Mode, 182 

Boiled, 179 

Bouillon, 42 

Broth, 61 

Brown Stew, 184 

" Bubble and Squeak," 183 

Casserole Roast, 183 

Chipped, 157 

Corned, 180 

Croquettes, 185 

Filet Marine, 183 

Fritters, 171 

Hash, 181 

Heart, 185 

Hungarian Gotdash, 189 

Jelly, 3" 
Kidney Stew, 183 

Larding, 178 

Liver, 186 

Loaf, 181 

Olives, 182 

Pot Roast, 179 

Roast, 179, 612 

Sour Roast, 180 



Steak, Notes on, 187 
k la Creole, 188 
Chowder, 58 
en Casserole, 189 
Hamburger, 186 
Pie, 186 
RoUs, 510 
Swiss, 186 

and Mushrooms, 189 
Tea, 81 

Tongue, 185, 193 
Beets, Boiled, 275 
Greens, 283 
Jellied, 311 
Roasted, 275 
Salad, 334 
Soups, 77, 82 
Beverages, 508-524 
Bird's Nest Salad, 339 

Soup, 92 
Biscuit 6lao6, 479, 577 
Biscuits, 390 
Dainty, 397 
Hot Raised, 394 
Maryland fieaten, 402 
Quidc, 396 
Bisque, 53-54, 74, 76 
Black Beans. 275 
Blackbeny Beaumont, 435 
Cordial, 515 
Jelly Pie, 446 
Roly Poly, 416 
Blueberry Cake, 459 

Pie, 447. 533 
Shortcake, 426 

Bluefish, Baked, 115 

Broiled, 116 

Curried, 123 
Boiled Custard, 409 

Dressing, 357 

Icing, 466 
Bombay Sauce, 239 

Toast, 120 
Bonbon Salad, 340 
Bortsch (Russian Soup), 70 
Boston Ihidding, 416 
Bouillabaisse (Soup), 51 
Bouillon, 42, 52, 59 
Brazil Nut Butter, 384 

Soup, 86 
Bread, Notes on Making, 389- 

39« 
Brown, Fingers, 35 

Ice Cream, 481 

Pudding, 416 

Steamed, 392 



Index 



617 



Bread — CotUinued 
Cakes, 405 
Egg Puffs, 395 
Pried, 394 
Graham, 392 
Oatmeal, 392 
Pulled, 393 
Quick, 393 
Rusk, 395 

Rye, 393 

Soup, 80 

Sticks, 393 
Breadfruit Cake (Dutch), 460 
Broiling in Camp, 503 
Broth, Clam, 52, 80, 81, 556 

Royale, 61 

Scotch Mutton, 48, 556 
Brown Betty Pudding, 582 

Flour, to, 260 

Mushroom Sauce, 244 

Onion Sauce, 243 

Sauce or Gravy, 235 
Brussels Sprouts, 275 
Buckwheat Cakes, 405 
Buffet Menus (Children), 586 
Bulgarian Chops, 194 
Buns, Hot Cross, 399 

Sweet Potato, 396 
Burgundy Cream, 431 
Burnt Onions for Gravies, 238 
Butter, Notes on, 375 

Drawn, Sauce, 238 

Fairy, 375 

Mattre d'H6tel, 242 
Buttered Spaghetti, 321 
Butterscotch, 500 

Pie, 446 



Cabbage, Baked and Boiled, 276 

Red, 277 

Salad, 343 

Slaw, 277 

Soup, 73 

Stuffed, 276 

Surprise, 611 
CsM au Lait, 508 

Noir, 508 

Parfait, 493 

Cake, 455-464 

for Children, 578 
Fillings, 464-466 
Frostmg and Icing, 464 
Layer, 461-464 
Making, 455 



Cakes, Fish, 96, 99, 102 

Oat, 401 

Potato, 296 

Scotch, 401 

Small, 466-473 

Wheat, 404 
Calf's Foot, Jelly, 310 
Stewed, 558 

Head, 191, 195 

Liver, 152, 171, 191, 194, 613 

Tongue, 157 
Camembert Toast, 379 
Camp Conveniences, 603 

Uookery, 602 

Fire, 602 
Camping, What Foods to Take, 

606 
Canap6s, Notes on, and Recipes, 

27 
Canary Pudding, 416 

Candy, Notes on Making, 499 

Canned Salad, Making, 341 

Canning, Dry Pack, 526 

Cantaloupe, 349, 351, 440 

Caper Sauce, 239 

Capons, 218 

Caramd Ice Cream, 480 

Sauce, 424 

Cardoon Sialad, 345 

Carrots, 221, 244, 278, 311, 539 

Carving, 173 

Casaba Melon, 350, 440 

Casserole Cookery, 608 

Cauliflower, 234, 278, 312, 335, 

^54.5 

Caviar, 29, 31, 32, 35 

Celeriac, 279 

Celery, 29, 73, 232, 240, 279, 353, 

^551 

Cereals, 314-318 

Soups, 77 
Champagne, 239, 511, 514, 541 
Chanticleer Cocktail, 510 
Chantilly Soup, 66 
Chapon for Saoad Bowl, 325 
Cheese, Notes on, 376-381 

Apple Cake, 470 

Cream, 337 

Omelet, 370 

and Rice Custard, 410 

Roquefort and Celery Can- 
ap^, 29 

Salads, 337-341 » 347 
Cherries, 82, 353, 483, 494, 513. 

519. 535, 544 
Cherry Pie, 447, 449, 451 



6i8 



Index 



Chestnut (Marrons), 30, 85, 86, 
154, 231, 232, 245, 302, 351, 

378» 385, 387, 398. 430, 486, 
487, 494, 496, 535, 592 
Chicken, Adrienne, 156 
k la King, 215 
k la Mt. Vernon, 211 
k la Papigo, 216 
au Gratin, 213 
Bouillon, 59 
broiled, 213 

with Jellied Giblets, 217 
Broth, 556 
Capons, 218 
Chop Suey, 213 
Compote, 215 
en Casserole, 214 
Essence of, Madrilaine in 

Jelly. 81 
Fowl Pilau, 212 
Fricassee of Spring, 215 
Giblet Soup, 60 
How to Stuff, 209 



Telly, 309 
Liver Cai 



inap^, 33 
Liver Saut6, 217 
Madrilaine, 214 
Marvland Piied, 211 
Mock, Cutlets, 151 
Pie, 216 

Poulet k la Marengo, 212 
Salad with Bottle%reast of, 

344 
Jellied, 346 

Pie, 330 

Puffs, 332 

Sausage, 217 

Short^ke, 213 

Chicory (Barbe de Capudn), 

332 

Children's Buffet Menu, 586 

Cakes, 578 

Desserts, 574 

Diets, 565 

Dinner Refreshments, 587 

Dishes for Them to Make, 

581 

Favorite Dishes of, 571 

General Feeding, 570 

Ice Creams, 577 

Parties, 584 

Party Menus, 585 

Pudding, 577 

School Luncheons, 589 
Chile-Con-Came, 61 
Chili Sauce, 547 



Vinegar, 551 
Chinatown, Markets of, 312 
Chinese Fish, 159 

Salad, 335 

Sauce, 244 
Chocolate, Notes on, 509 

Cake (SoUd), 456 

Cream Drops, 502 

Ice Cream, 479 

Layer Cake Filling, 464 

Punch (Hot), 518 

Sauce, 487 

Schnutten, ^62 
Chop Suey, Chicken, 213 
Chops, Broiled, and Potatoes, 

581 
Sauce for, 247 

Chow-Chow, 592 

Tomato, 547 
Chowder, 54, 55, 56, 57, 58 
Chnstmas Eggnog, 519 
Chutney, Tomato, 545 
Cider, Hot Spiced, 5x5 

Mulled, 515 
Cinnamon Toast, 573 
Clams, Notes on, 144 

Baked, 144 

Bouillon, 52-81 

Broth, 52, 80, 556 

Canap^, 28 

Curried, 145 

Escalloped, 145 

Fritters, 169 

Iced Broth, 81 

New England Chowder, 56 

Pie,i45 

Soup, 51 
Claret Cup, 514 
Coal, Cooking by, 3 
Cocktails, 509, 513 

Notes on, 509 

of Fruit, 513 
Cocoa, Notes on, 509 
Cocoanut Cake, 463 

Drops, 468 

Pie, 447 

Soup, 85 

Hindustani, 85 
Codfish, au Gratin, 108 

Broiled, 106 

Creamed, on Toast, 109 

Croc^uettes, 108 

Cumed, 107 

Escalloped, no 

Fresh, 558 

in Balls, 106 



Index 



619 



CodBsbr—CofUinued 

Ramekirw, no 

ielHed, in 
lock Scallops, III 
Peppers, 108 
Pie, 107 

Pineapple en C^asserole, 109 
Tongues Creamed, 109 

and Lobster en Ca^role, 

132 
VM6, 163 
Salad, 326 
Turbot, no 
Coffee, Nutritious, 560 
Cold Soups, 80 
Colecannon, 277 
Company Luncheon Dish, a, 

Consomm6, 43 

Cookery, en Sasserole, 608 

Vegetable, 265-269 
Cookies, 466, 470 

Favorite, 579 

Seed, 57? 

Soft Molasses, 474 

Cooking bv Coal, 3 

Gas, 3 

Electricity, 4, 5 

while Camping, 602 

Coquetle Canape, 27 

Com, au gratin, 280 

Bread, 400 

Chowder, 58 

Croquettes, 279 

Fritters, 280 

Green, on Cob, to Boil« 279 

Pone, 396 

Pur6e, 72 

Roast, on Cob, 279 

Salad, Hot, Canned, 343 

Soup from Fresh, 65 

to Pop in Cyil, 501 
Corned Beef, 180 
Commeal Gruel, 556, 560 

Mush, 315 
Crabs, Notes on Boiling, 134 

deviled, 135 

Gumbo, 136 

Meat au Uratin, 136 

Meat in Ramekins, 135 

Meat Puffs, 135 

Meat Soup, 50 

Sauce, 240 

Soft Shelled, 136 

Italian Way, 137 

Stuffed, 134 



Tartlet, 135 

and Fresh Olive Salad, 329 
Cracker Dumplings, 88 
Cranberry Sauce, 244 

Salad, 334 
Crawfish, Notes on, 137 
Cream, 374 

Cheese, to Make, 377 

and Chestnut Puv6e, 378 
with Mao^doine Vege- 
tables, 337 
Piquant, 378 

Chocolate, 503 

Dressing, Sweet, 357 

Frozen, 490 

Giblet Sauce, 244 

Sauce, 236 

French, 237 

Soup, 71 

Toast, 573 
Cr6me de Menthe Jelly, 541 
Creole Gumbo, 65 
Cress Vinegar, 551 
Crones, Notes on, 309 
Croutons, 88 
Crullers, 472, 579 
Crust, Pie, 443 
Cucumbers, k la Poulettei 281 

Aspic, 346 

Canape, 32 

Deviled, 281 

Fried, 281 

Jelly. 541 

PurSe, 72 

Sauce, 240 

Soup, 65 

Stuffed, 280 

Tile in, Jelly, 124 

and Liver Pftt^, 166 

and Nut Salad, 347 

and Onion Jelly, 312 
Curry Powder, 259 
Custards, 409 

Baked, 410 

Boiled, 409 

French Frozen, 480 

Lemon Frozen, 412 

Peach Cobbler, 411 

Pie, 447 

Pie, Frosted, 448 

Rhubarb Fool, 412 

Syllabub, 411 

vermicelli, 322 
Cut Glass, care of, 17 
Cutlet, en Casserole, 195 

Stewed, 558 



620 



Index 



D 



Dairy Products, 361 
Damson Plum Pie, 448 

Tart, 428 
Dandelion, 282 

Purte, 74 
Dasheens, Notes on, 308 
Date, Custard, Frozen, 482 

Dainty, 436 

Jellied, 431 

Souffle, 436 
Dead Cakes. 471 
Delicacies tor the Table, 254- 

264 
Desserts, 409 

for Children, 574 

of Fruit, 434-439 

Jelly, 430-434 
Deviled Salad Balls, 338 
Devonshire Cream, 374 

Junket, 374 
Diet for Children, 565 
Diets for the Rheumatic, 561 
Dinner Refreshments (Children), 

587 
Dishes for Children to Make, 581 

Dormers, 198 

Doughnuts, 472, 473 

Drawn Butter Sauce, 238 

Dressing for Salads, 354-360 

Fruit Salad, 357 
Dried Fruit Pies^ 448 
Drinks, Nourishing, $%S 

to be Served on the Porch, 

■ 520 
Dry Pack Canning, 526 
Duchess Sauce, 423 
Ducks, Notes on Roast, 220 

and Carrots, 221 

Jiblet Soup, 60 

and Orange Salad, 331 

P&t^, 164 
Dumplings, Apple, 427 

Austrian Potato, 88 

Baking Powder, 90 

Coronte, 89 

Cracker, 88 

Farina, 316 

German Liver, 89 

Potato, 90 

Soup, 89 

Stew, 89 

Suet, 91 
Dutch Breadfruit Cake, 460 

Croquettes, i^i 



Salad, 347 
Sauce, 241 



E 



Eels, Pried, 116 

Coki JeUied, 127 

Soup, 48 
Eggplant, to fry, 282 

au Gratin, 283 

Bombay, 282 

Turkish, 283 
Eggs, Notes on, 361 

American, 365 

au Miroir, 365 

Baked, 363 

Chinese, 365 

French, 366 

German, 366 

Hungarian, 366 

Irish, 366 

Italian, 366 

Mignon, 363 

New Salad, 340 

Nicoise, 367 

Nog, Chnstmas, 519 

Norwegian, 367 

Omelets, 368 

Poached, k la Reine, 167 
with cream sauce, 362 

Puffs, 395 

Rolls, 396 

Russian, 367 

Salads, 337-34^ 

Sauce, 241 

Scotch, ^67 

Scotch Woodcock, 364 

Scrambled with Sardines, 

364 

Shirred with ham, 364 

Turkish, 567 

Vermicelh, 365 

Wine, 559 

with Crayfish, 36^ 

with Tomatoes, 363 
Egyptian Meat Pie, 194 
Electricity, Cooking by, 4 
En Casserole, 608 
Endive, 282 

Roquefort Cheese Salad, 338 

Stuffed Salad, 333 
English Brown Sauce or Gravy, 

235 
Chowder, 57 

Mustard, 360 



Index 



621 



English Brown Sauce — ConHnued 

Mutton Chop, 199 

Trifles, 412 
Entries, 150-172 

Notes on, 150 
Escarole, Panned, 282 
Essences for Meat and Game, 

249 
Everton ToSee, 500 



Fairy Butter, 375 
FanchonetteSj 429 
Fancy Individu^ Small Cakes, 

470 
Fanna Dumplings, 316 
Fanner's Fruit Ceke, 475 
Feeding the Child, 568 
Fennel Jelly, 540 

Seed Sedad, 336 
Fenuchi Salad, 336 
Fig Cream, 5(» 

in Honey, 436 

Jam, 534 

^udding, 417 

Salad, 353 

Tomato (Sweet Preserve), 






Mar 



Filet Marino, 183 

Filet of Sole, 1 12 

Fillings for Cake, 46^-466 

for Chocolate (Jake, 464 

for Minnehaha Cake, 465 

tor Sandwiches, 594-601 
Finnan Haddie k la Kmg, 118 
Baked, 118 
Canapi, 34 
Fireless Cookers, 4-5 
Fish, Cakes, 95, 99 

Chinese, 159 

Chowder, 56 

Cookery, 95 

Dish, a Good Cold, 126 

Fancy, 591 

Forcemeat, 119 

Jdlies to be Served with, 539- 
542 

Notes on, 93 

Pudding en Casserole, 61 1 

Salads, 325-329 

Sauces, 238 

Shell, 128 

Soups, 48 

to Bake, 94 



to Boil, 94 

and Oyster Pie, 57 

and Pineapple Cana,p6, 29 
Fishennan's Punch, 518 
Flannel Cakes, 404 
Floating Island, Modem, 410 

Old Fashioned, 410 
Flounder k la Italienne, iii 

k la Turque, 112 

Chinese Pish, 159 

Filet of Sole, 112 

Filet of Sole in Cases, 1 13 

Stuffed or Rolled, 113 
Flour, to Brown, 260 
Flowers of Pastry, 444 
Foamy Sauce, 423 
Food Garnishes and Their Mak« 

ing, 250-253 
Forcemeat B^, 91 

Stuffing, 231 
Fowls, how to Bone, 225 

how to Stuff, 209 

Pilau, 212 
Frangipane Tart, 428 
French Dressing, Heavv, 354 

with Vegetable or Pea- 
nut Oil, 354 

Fondant or Cream, 505 

Frozen Custard, 480 

Mustard Sauce, 359 

Pancakes, 406 

Waffles, 403 

White Sauce or Bechamel, 
236 
Fresh Fish, 93 

Olive Salad, 339 
Fried Salad, 335 
Fries, Lamb, 201 
Frijoles, Mexican, 275 
Fritters, Notes on, 167 

Rice, 318 

Sweet, 428-430 

Walnut, 387 
Frogs' L^ Creamed, 119 
Currant Sauce, 158 
Fried, 118 
Salad, 327 
Frosted Holly Leaves, 261 
Frozen Apricots, 484 

Cheese Salad, 339 

Cherries, 483 

Cream, 490 

Custard, 480 

Date Custard, 482 

Fruit Juices, 496 

Peaches, 482 



622 



Index 



Frozen Peaches — Continued 

Peach Shortcake, 489 

Plum Pudding, 483 

Rice Pudding, 490 

Strawberries, 482 
Fruit Cake, 457 

Cakes, Fanner's, 475 
Ohio, 461 

Cocktails, 513 

Desserts, 434*439 

Jelly, 431 

Tuioe, Frozen, 496 

Mufi&ns, 399 

Omelet, 371 

Pies of Dried Pruit» 448 

Pinwhed, 469 

Pudding, 417 

Punch, 518 

Salads, 348-?53 

Dressmgs for, 357 

Soups, 83 

Supreme of, 437 

with Jelly Mao6doine, 432, 

575 
Frunut Salad, 351 

Frying in Camp, 603 

Fudge, Baltimore, 503 

Coooanut, 504 

Maple, 504 



Game, Notes on ^nds of, 227 

Salads, 329-332 

Sauces, 243-248 

Soups, 59 
Garlic vinegar, 550 
Garnishes, Notes on, 250-253 

for Salads, 259 

for Soup, 87 
Gas, Cooking by, 3 
Gems, Rice, 397 
German Canap6, 31 

Pancake, ao6 

Potato Cakes, 296 

Potatoes, 295 
Giblet Pie, 222 

Soup, Chicken, 60 
Duck, 60 
Gingerbread, 473, 476 

Honey and Sour Milk, 475 

Soft, 579 
Ginger Cake, Maple, 474 

Fritters, 170 

Ice Cream, 481 

Preserved Green, 534 



Pudding, 417 

Punch, 517 

Snaps, 476, 580 

Water ice, 495 
Glaze, Meat, 260 
Glazed Sweet Potatoes, 297 
Glen House Flannel Cakes, 404 
Gluten Muffins, 398 
Gnome Punch, 517 
Golden Pudding, 417 
Good Stuffing, 230 
Goose, Roast, 219 

Swedish Roast, 220 
Gooseberry Jelly, 535 

Sauce, 241 

Sherbet, 492 

Tart, 329 

Trifle, 414 
Graham Bread, Steamed, 392 
Grape, Canap6, 32 

Cooler, 517 

Icet 495 
TeUied, 574 

Ketchup, 553 

Sauce, 112 

Tart (White), 429 

Trifle, A14 

and Celery Salad, 353 

Grapefruit Fritters, 170 



Jelly, 53? 
Mi 



[armalade, 533 
Salad, 342 
Trifle, 41^ 

and Sardine Canape, 28 
Gravies, art of Making, 233 
Crayfish with Eggs, 364 
Green Com au Uiratin, 280 
Croquettes, 279 
Gage Sweetmeats, 531 
Pea Cutlets, 291 
Peppers, Egyptian, Stuffed, 

291 
Tomatoes, Fried, 302 
Turtle Soup, 53 
Greens, 283 . 
Gruels, 556 
Guinea Fowl, Notes on, 222 

en Casserole, 222, 610 



Halibut, au Gratin« 114 
Baked, 113 
Chicken, Sieilad, 328 
Deviled, 114 



Index 



623 



Halibut — CorUinued 

Macaroni, 115 

Pineapple, 115 

Turbot, 114 
Ham, Baked Fresh, 204 
Smoked, 203 

Boiled, 203 

Pried, 20^ 

Grilled with Bananas, 207 

Mousse, 158 

Muffins, 397 

Patties, 167 

and Chow-Chow, 592 

and Truffles, 306 

and Veal Pie, 192 

with Shirred Bggs, 364 
Hambui^er Steak, 185, 612 
Hard Sauce, 423 
Harvest Pundi, 519 
Hash, Fine, 181 

Coarse, 181 
Hazelnut Salad, 341 
Heart, Baked, 185 
Heart-of-Palm Canap^, 30 

Mixture with Mayonnaise, 36 

Potage, ^2 
Herring Roe in Oil Relish, 36 
Hessian Omelet, 369 

Sauce, 242 
Hickory Nut Candy, 500 
Hodge-Podge (Soup), 48 
Holly Leaves, to Frost, 261 
Home Made Bread, 389-392 
Ice Creams, 477 

Nursing, 562 

Stuffed OHves, 261 
Hominy, 315 
Honey, Cake, 458 

Hot, with Rice, 318 

Love Sauce, 485 

Mousse, 496 

Posset, 519 

Puffs, 501 

and Baked Beans, 159 

and Sour Milk Gingerbread, 

475 
Honeycomb Gingerbread, 473 
Hongkong Cooler, 517 
Hoppingjohn, 290 
Hors d'CEuvres, 35 

Horseradish Sauce, 245 

Vmeg^r, 551 
Horse's Neck (Temperance), 521 
Hot Breads, 393 

Cross Buns, 399 

Spice, 248 



Water Pie Crust, 443 
How to Stuff Fowl, 209 
Hungarian Goulash, 189 



Ice Cream, Notes on Making, 477 
Novel Ways of Serving, 

487 
Sandwiches, 488 
Sauces for, 485 
Ices, Notes on, 490 
Icings for Cakes, 464-466 
Imperial Soup, 41 
India Canap^, 29 
Indian Trine, 414 
Invalid Cookery, 555 
Drinks, 558 
Food Hints, 557 
JeUy, 557 
Irish Potato Cakes, 296 

Stew, 199 
Italian Cutlets, 198 
Spaghetti, 320 
Squash, Notes on, 299 



} 



Jam for Summer, 537-539 
Shortcake, 426 

apanese Salad, 350 

ellied Beets, 311 

Calf's Tongue, 157 
Carrots and Rice, 311 
Cucumber and Onion, 311 
Dates, 431 
Desserts, 430-434 
Mutton Broth, 310 
Peas and Cauliflower, 312 

Salads, 345-348 
, . Soups, 80 
Jdlies for Summer, 537-539 

to be Used with Fish, 539-542 
Jelly, Aspic, 257 

for Decoration, 258 
Asparagus in, 312 

Beef, 311 

Calf's Foot, 310 

Chicken, 309 

Doughnuts, ^172 

Essence of Clucken, 81 

Sandwiches, 580 

Sponge, 460 

Tapioca, 310 

Tomato, 345 

Tutti Frutti, 433 



624 



Index 



Jelly — Continued 

Vegetables in, 309 • 
Watennelon, 441 
and Cheese SaJad, 347 
^ erusalem Artichokes, 270 
, ewish Shallit, 450 
|[ohn Bull's Own Pudding, 418 
ollyboys, 469 
umbles, 467 
unket, 583 

Devonshire, 374 



Ketchups, Making of, 552 
Kidneys, Madeira, 150 

in Sauce, 156 

Stew, 183 
Kohlrabi, 264 



Ladies' Delight Pickle, 544 
Lady Baltimore Cake, 462 
Lamb, Carving, 175 

Notes on, 196 

Pries, 201 

Roasting, 200 

Stuffed Shoulder, 200 

Sweetbreads, 200 

Tongue Salad, 344 

Trotters, 199 
Lard, 20§ 

Larding Meats, 178 
Layer Cakes, 461-464 

Cake Plain, 463 

Made with Oil, 464 
Leeks, 284 

Left-Overs, Use of, 218 
Lemon Cake, Filling, 464 

Ice, 494 

Pie Princess, 451 

Sauce, 418, 424 

Sherbet, 491 

Soup, 82 

Sponge, 412 
Lemonade, 523 

Nourishing, 559 
Lentil Pancakes, 407 

Soup, 67 
Lettuce, Birds' Nest Salad, 339 

Cream of, Soup, 77 

with Baked Asparagus, 271 
Lilac Sherbet, 491 
Lima Beans, 273 

Baked, 273 

Pancakes, 407 



Pur6e of, 72 
Litchi Salad, 340 
Little Cooks, Recipes for the, 581 
Liver, 186 

Calf's, 152, 171, 191, 194 

Canape, 29, 33 

Dumplings, 89 

Ketchup, 553 

Saut6, 217 

Savoy, 1^9 

and Apple Rounds, 159 

and Cucumber Pdtig, 166 
Lobster, choosing and preparing 
of, 128 

k la Militaire, 152 

k la Newburg, 131 

Bisque, 54 

Broiled, 134 

Buttered, 131 

Canape 34 
Cardinal, 133 

Chops, 131 

Chowder, 57 

Creole, 133 

Fritters, 172 

Omelet, 370 

Piovengale, 133 

Pur6e, 54 

Salad, Baked, 327 

Scalloped, 132 

Soup, 51 

Stuffing for Fish, 119 

Tarts, 132 

and Codfish Tongues, 132 

and Sweetbread, 130 

Lomo, 206 



M 



Macaroni, Baked, 319 

Notes on, 319 

Cutlets, 319 

Halibut, 115 

Soup, 78 

with Saffron Curry Sauce, 320 

with Spinach, 320 
Macaxxxms, 469 

Peanut, 386 
Mac6doine, Fruit, 575 
in Jelly, 432 

Stuffing, 232 

Vegetable, 163, 311 
Salad, 3^7 
Mackerel, Broiled, 117 

Creamed, 117 

Spanish, 122 



Index 



625 



Madagascar Relish, 36 
Madeira Kidneys, 150 
Maids of Honor, 428 
Mattre d'H6tel Butter, 343 
Making Canned Salads, 341 
Maple Ginger Cake, 474 

Icing, 466 

Mousse, 497 

Sauce, 487 
Marble Cake, 457 
March Pane (Candy), 505 
Markets of Chinatown, 313 
Marlborough Pudding. 419 
Marmalade au Cr^e (Apple), 435 
Marron Prapp6, 494 
Marrons in Honey, 387 

in Spinach, 303 

Sauce for Powls, 345 

Soup, 86 

Prune Salad, 351 

Tart, 430 

and Sweetbread, 154 
Marrow, Baked, 307 

Balls for Soup, 90, 91 

Bones, 155 

Preserved, 535 

a Vegetable, 507 
Marshmallow Filling, 465 
Martha Washington Chowder, 54 
Martini Cocktau, 513 
Marvland Chowder, 55 

Pried Chicken, 211 
Matelote Sauce, 243 
Mayonnaise, Boiled, 356 

Plain, 355 

Russian, 356 

with Mustard, 356 

with Walnut CHI, 355 

without Oil, 356 
Mead, 522 
Meals, servine of, 6 
Measuring Tiles, 23 
Meat Glaze, 260 

Salads, 329-332 

Sauces, 243-248 

Soups, 41 
Meats, 177 

Melons, Serving of, 440, 4^ 
Menus for Children's Parties, 585 
Meringue Pudding, 419 

and Whipped Cream Sauce, 
486 
Me3dcan Cake, 475 

Prijoles, 275 

Soup, 47, 61 
Midgets, 468 

40 



Military Pudding, 418 
Milk, Notes on, 373 

Punch, French Frozen, 485 

Snap, 523 
Mince Pie, 451 

Roly Polv Pudding, 433 
Mincemeat, Banana, 446 

Green Tomato, 547 
Minnehaha Cake, 465 
Mint Jelly, 538 

JuHp, 518 

^ Jelly. 541 

Sauce, 245 
Mirabelle and Graen Almond 

Salad, 353 
Mocha Filling, 466 

Pancakes, ^08 
Mock Cherry Pie, 451 

Chicken Cutlet, 151 

Fish P&tds, 299 

Scallops, III 

Turtle Soup, 45 
Molasses, Candy, 500 

Dainties, 473 

Soft, Cookies, 474 
Mollusks, 138 
Monte C^rlo Soup, 79 
Mortadelle-de-Bologne Relish, 36 
Moselle Cup, 514 
Mousses, Notes on, 496 
Muffins, Chestnut, 398 

Com, 398 

English, 403 

Fruit, 399 

Gluten, 398 

Ham, 397 

Qmck, 583^ 
Mullagatawny Soup, 60 
Mulled Cider, 515 

Wine, 515 
Mush, Corn-Meal, 315 
Mushrooms, k la Bordelaise, 386 

Brown, Sauce, 344 

Fresh, Fried in Butter, 385 

in Baked Spanish Onion, 386 

Ketchup, 553 

Notes on, 384 

Pat^s, 285 

Soup, 69 

Sweetbreads, 161, 195 

Under Glass, 286 

White, Sauce, 248 
Mussels, Buttered, 146 

(}anap6, 30 

Notes on, 146 

Salad, 328 



626 



Index 



Mustard, English, 360 

Pickle, 550 

Sauce. 242, 359 
Mutton, Boiled Leg of, 197 

Broth, a8, 556 

^, Jelly, 310 

Chops, English, 199 
Crown or Rack Roast, 201 
Cutlet, Stewed, 558 
Dormers, 198 
Irish Stew, 199 
Italian Cutlets, 198 
Notes on, 196 

KCf I97» 199 
Soup, 45 

Toad in Hole, 156 



N 



Nasturtium Pickles, 544 
Nesselrode Pudding, 484 
Newbuig Omelet, 369 
New England Clam Chowder, 56 
Noodles, 322 

Escalloped, ^23 

to Make Pkun, 323 

with Brown Sauce, 323 
Notes on Chinese Cookcsry, 512 

Fish, 93 
Nourishing Dnnks, 558 
Novel Ways to Serve loe Cream^ 

487 
Nursery Cookery, 572 
Nursing at Home, 562 
Nuts, as Food, 384-388 

Bread, 400 

Butter (Brazil), 384 

Creams, 504 

Cutlets, 386 

Doughnuts, 473 

Notes on, 382-384 

Roast, 385 

Salads, 337, 341 

Soups, 83 

Waters, 467 

and Cucumber Salad, 347 

to Salt, 384 



Oat Cakes (Scotch), 401 
Oatmeal, to Boil, 315 

Bread with Honey, 392 
Ohio Fruit Cake, 461 
Okia Soup, 68 






Olives, Beef, 182 

Fresh, 329 

Home Stuffed, 261 

Notes on. Uses of, 261, 264 

Ripe, Omelet of, 370 

Salad of Fiesh, 339 

Sauce, 246 

with Sweetbreads, 160 
Omelets, 152, 368-373, 435 

Plam, 368 

Souffle, 371 

Sweet, 371-373 

with Cheese, 370 
One, Two, Three, Pour Cake, 460 
Onions, Baked Spanish, 287 

Brown Sauce, 243 

Burnt, for Gravy, 238 

Fritters, 288 

Omelet, 370 

Pie, 287 

Puffs, 288 

Scalloped, 288 

Sauce, 245 

Soup, 68 

to Boil, 287 

to Fry, 287 

and (Cucumber Jellied, 311 
Orange, Baked, Pudding, 419 

Batter Pudding, 419 

Blossom (Drink), 511 

Chocolate Quarters, 437 

Cream, 432 

Gravy, 246 

Ice, 495 . 

Jelly, 557 _ 

Layer Cake, Cabaa, 461 

Omelet, 372 

Parfait, 494 

Shortcake, 426 

SoufiQIi^, 437 

Soup, 82, 87 

and Duck Salad, 331 

and Rhubarb Jam, 533 
Outdoor Cookery, 602 
Oxtail Soup, 4j 
Oysters, Baked in Tomatoes, 141 

Bombay, 143 

Bundles, 142 

Cro(]luettes, 142 

Cumed, 143 

Deviled, 153 

Fritters, 169 

Loaf, 140 

Newbuig, 140 

Notes on, 138 



Index 



627 



Oysters — Continued 
Pat^s, 163 
Pie, 142 
Salad, 325 
Scalloped, 143 
Shortcake, 144 
Soup, 50 
Stuffing, 231 
Toad in Hole, 156 
and Com Scallop, 141 
and Fish Pie, 57 



Pakchoi (Chinese Sakd), 335 

Pancakes, 404-408 

Pan Fish, 117 

Panocha (Candy), 499 

ParCaits, 493 

Parker House Rolls, 399 

Parsley and Butter Sauce, 246 

Green, 290 
Parsnip, Cones, 289 

Purde, 75 

Smothered, 289 

Soup, 66 

to Boil, 289 
Parties for Children, 584 
Party Menus for Childreu, 585 
Pastel Sauce, 423 
Pastry Crust, 442 

Flowers, 444 
PAt^de-Foi-Gras (Relish), 36 
Patties, 162 
Peach, Bavaroise, 438, 575 

Cobbler, 411 

Cream, 577 

Frozen, 482 

Melba, 483 

Pie, 452 

Pudding, 420 

Pufflets, 429 

Pur6e, 74 

Salad, 348 

Sherbet, 491 

Shortcake, Frozen, 489 

Sweet Pickled, 546 

and Rice, 575 
^eanut Candy, 501 

Cookies, 466 

Macaroons, 386 

Soup, Cream of, 87 
Pears, Baked, 438 

Pie, 449 

Princess, 438 



Peas, Cow, 290 

Green, Cutlets, 291 

Jellied with CauHfloweft 31a 

Soup, 63 

Fresh, 66 

to Stew or Boil Fresh, 290 
Pecans and Cherries, Preserved^ 

535 _ 
Peppers, Boiled, 292 

Egyptian Stuffed, 291 

Mao6doine, 292 

Notes on, 291 

Shad, 103 

Stuffed Green, 291 

Sweet Pickled, 546 

with Apples, 292 ; with Ban« 
ana, 293 
Perch, Stewed, 122 
Petit Marmite (Soup), 47 
Pheasant Soup, 61 
Philadelphia Fish House Punch, 

516 
Pickle, Hors d'CEuvres, 35 

Mustard, 550 

Sour Spice, 36 
Pickled Surprise, 543 
Pickles, Quick, 543 
PickUng, Idea on, 542 

Notes on, 525 

to Make a Spice Bag, 543 
Pie, Beefsteak, 186 

Chicken, 216 

Chicken Salad, 330 

Clam, 145 

Codfish, 107 

Crust, Hot Water, 443 
Plain, 443 

Eg^yptian Meat, 194 

FiA and Oyster, 57 

Giblet, 222 

Mutton, 197, 199 

Notes on, 442-454 

Onion, 287 

Oyster, 142 

Pigeon, 223 

Pork, 204 

Rabbit, 226 

Turnip, 304 

Veal and Ham, 192 
Pigeon, Broiled, 223 

Cookery, 222 

Pie, 223 

Roast, 223 

Salad, 231 

Soup, 62 
Pig, Roast, 205 



628 



Index 



Tel 



Pig's Feet, 205 
Pike, Pineapple, 118 
Pilgrim Pudding, 420 
Pimento Bisque, 74 
Pine Nut Roast, 386 

Paste, 385 
Pine Roast, 385 
Pineapple Cocktail, 513 

Cones, 489 

Fingers, 35 

Fizz, 560 

Halibut, 115 

Ice, 404 

Cream, 479 

felly, 537 
larshmallow, 501 

Mousse, 497 

P&t^, 166 

Pie, 452 

Pike, 118 

Pilot, 523 

Punch, 518 

Pur6e, 74 

Sauce, 242, 487 

Sherbet, 491 

Whip, 438 

and Cheese Salad, 338 

and Fish Canape, 29 

and Shad Salad, 329 

and Tuna Fish, 164 
Plain Layer Cake, 463 

Made with Oil« 464 

Omelet, 368 

Pie Crust, 443 
Planking any Fish, Recipe for, 10 1 
Plum Cake, Old Fashioned, 461 
Plums, Damson Cheese, 530 

Green Gage Sweetmeats, 531 

Paste, 531 

PAt^, 167 

Preserving and Pickling of, 

Pudding (Damson), 448 

Pudding (Frozen), 483 

Sherbet, 491 

Soup, 84 
Polish Chops, 193 

Filled Fish, 109 

Tarts, 430 
Pomeranian Soup, 70 
Pompano Stuffed with Lobster, 

Popcorn Pudding, 420 
Popovers, 395, 39(6 
Popping Com in Oil, 501 
Po^ Drinks, 520 



Pork, Notes on, 202 

Baked Smoked Ham, 203 

Boiled Ham, 203 

Carving, 175 

Fresh Baked Ham, 204 

Fried Ham, 204 

Grilled Ham with Bananas, 

207 
Ham Mousse, 158 

P&t^s in Aspic, 167 

and Truffles, 306 

and Veal Pie, 192 
Lard, 205 
Lomo, 2oi5 
Pie, 204 
Pig's Feet, 205 
Roast, 204 

Pig, 205 

Stuffed Tenderloin, 206 
Sausage k la Malaga, 154 

Creamed, 155 

Meat, 205 

Pasties, 207 

Puffs, 155 
and Banana Croquettes, 156 
Porto de Menzanas, 259 
Potage Cressonni^re, 75 

Printanier, 44 
Potato Cakes, Irish, 296 

German, 296 
Chowder, 58 
Creamed, 573 
Custards, 297 
Danish, 296 
Dumplings, 90 

Austrian, 88 
Escalloped, 295 
Fingers, 296 
French Fried, 294 
German, 295 
Notes on, 293 
Pancakes, 406 
Ric«i, 297 
Rissoles, 295 
Salad, New, 333 
and Shrimp Salad, 344 
Soup, 68 

Sttiffed en Casserole, 295 
Stuffing, 230 
Sweet, Buns, 396 

Glazed, 297 

with Sherry, 297 

Waffles, 403 
Potatoes to Boil and Bake, 

294 
Pot^u-Feu, 46 



Index 



629 



Pot Cheese, 378 

Roast, 179 
Poulet k la Marengo, 212 
Poultry, Giblet Pie, 222 

How to Stuff Fowls, 209 

Notes on, 208 

Sauces for, 243-^48 

Soups, 59 

to Bone Fowls, 225 

Uses of Left-Overs, 218 
Pound Cake, 455 
Pralines, Holiday, 506 

Pistachio, 507 
Preserve Making, 525 
Princess Lemon Pie, 451 
Prune Jelly, 538 

and Marron Salad, 351 

Molded, 576 

Nutted, 575 

Pie, 449 
Salad, 350 

Sherbet, 402 

Souffle, 576 

Soup, 84 

Whip, 439 
Prussian Sauce, 358 
Puddings, 387, 415-422, 483, 484 

Brown Betty, 583 

for Children, 577 

Sauces, 423, 424 

Yorkshire, 402 
Puff Balls, 467 
Puff Paste, 442, 444 
Pumpkin Pie, 453 

Preserve, 534 

Punch, 517 
Punches, 516-520 

Fresh Frozen Milk, 485 
Pur6e, 54, 71, 72, 74, 75 

Q 

(uail Boiled in Butter, 228 
(ueen Cakes, 459 
jueen of Pudding, 420 
^uick Biscuit, 396 
)uick Hot Breads, 393 
fuick Pickles, 543 
(uinces, 439, 532, 549 



Rabbit Pie, 226 
Soup, 62 
Stew, 226 



Radishes, Creamed, 298 

Notes on, 298 
Raisin, Boiled, Pudding, 421 

Pie, ±50 
Rare Trifles for the Table, 254- 

26d, 

Rareoit Omelet, ^68 
Raspberry Bavarian Cream, 432 
Exquisite, 439 

Ice, 495 

Cream, 481 

Rings, 488 

Soup, 82 

and Strawberry Salad, 361 

Vinegar, 522 

Red Cabbage, 277 

Snapper k la Carbon, 105 

k la Newbuxg, 106 

Baked, 104 

Chops, 105 

Chowder, 155 

in Aspic, 125 

Molded, 123 

Planked, 105 

Salad, 328 

Relishes, 34-36 

Notes on, 27 

Rennet Custard, 412 

Rheumatic Diets, 561 

Rhubarb Fool, 412 

Fresh, Salad, 349 

Fritters, 430 

Jelly, 540 

Omelet, 373 

and Orsmge Jam, 533 

Pie, 452 
Pudding, 421 
Sherbet, 492 
Shortcake, 425 
Rice, Fried, 318 

Dishes, Notes oq, 316 
Fritters, 318 
Gems, 397 
Gruel, 556 
Milanese, 318 
Pancakes, 406 
Pilau, 317 
Pudding, 421 

Frozen, 490 
Soup, 78, 572 
to Boil, 317 
Waffles, 403 
and Cheese Custard, 410 

Carrots Jellied, 311 

Hot Honey, 318 

Peaches, 575 



630 



Index 



Ripe Olive Omelet, 370 
Rocky Mountain Sauce, 423 
Roast Beef, 179, 612 

Crown or Rack, 201 

Pig. 205 

Pork, 204 

Vegetarian, 308 
Roasting in Camp, 603 
Robert Sauce, 247 
Roe Herring, 154 

Shad, 103, 327 
Rolls, Egg, 306 

Par^r House, 390 
Roly-Poly Mince Pucfdingy 422 
Romaine Salad, 333 
Roquefort Cheese and Endive 
Salad, 338 

Cup, 514 

Leaf Jam, 538 
Royal Icing, 465 
Rum Punch, 516 
Rusk, 395 
Russian Bortsch (Soup), 70 

Canape, 32 

Cream, 4^2 

Mayonnaise, 356 

Meat Salad, 329 

Pancakes, 407 

Relish, 35 
Rye Bread, 393 



Saffron Curry Sauce, 320 

Sage, to Dry, 260 

Sago Soup, 79 

Salad, Balls Deviled, 338 
Canned, Making of, 341 
Chapon (for Salad Bowl), 

325 
Dressings and Sauces, 354- 

360 

for Children, 570 
Fried, 335 
Frozen Cheese, 339 
Garnishes, Notes on, 259 
TelUed, 345-348 
Notes on, 324 
Pat6, 165 
Puffs, 332 
Spring, 582 

Vinegars, for Summer, 550 
of Cheese, 337 to 341 

Eggs, 337-341 

Fish, 325-329 



Fruit, 348-353 
Meat, 329-332 
Nuts, 337-341 
Vegetables, 332-337 
Salade au Nid, 341 

Sally Lunn, 305 
Salmon k la Carbon, 97 
Genevese, 96 

Boiled, 96 

Cakes, 96 

Cutlets, 97 

Deviled, 98 

Pickled (Cold), 125, 126 

in Ramekins, 97 

Soufia6,97 

Soup, 52 

Vernon, 124 
Salsify Soup, 77 

Pat^s, Mock Fish, 299 

to Boil, 298 
Salt nuts, to, 384 
Sandwich Filhngs, 594-601, 605 

for All Occasions, 593 

Jelly, 580 

Surprise, 592 

Sweet, 597 
Sardine Canap£, 32 

Omelet, 152 

Sauce, 243 

and Grapefruit (Canap6), 28 

and Scrambled Eggs, 364 
Sauce, Art of Making, 233 
Sauces, 235, 257 

to be Served with Fish, 238 
Game, 243-248 
Ice Cream, 485 
Meat, 243-248 
Poultry, 243-248 
Puddings, 423, 424 
Salads, 354-3^0 

"Honey Love," 485 

MandsJay, 358 

Piquant, 247, 358 

Tomato, 237 

Violette, 359 

White, 236 
Sausage k la Malaga, 154 

Creamed, 155 

French, 156 

Meat, 205 

Pasty, 207 

Puffs, 155 

Stuffing, 232 
Savory Canap^, 28 

Cherokees, 158 



Index 



6r.i 



Savory — Continued 

Marrow Bones, 155 

Stuffing" 230 
Scallops, Blanquette, 158 

en Casserole, 146 

Mock, III 

Notes on, 146 

Salad, 326 

Soup, 49 
School Luncheons, 589 
Scones, Scotch, 397 
Scotch Short Bread, 401 

Cakes, 402 

Mutton Broth, 48 

Oat Cakes, 401 

Scones, 307 

Woodcock, 364 
Scottish Soup, 67 
Sea Foam Sauce, 487 
Serving Meals, 6 
Serving of Mutton, 440-442 
Shad, Baked, loi 

Bel^;ian Stuffed, 104 

Broiled, 100 

Cakes, 102 

Creamed with Asparagus, 102 

Creole, 103 

Escalloped, 102 

Molded, 125 

Peppers, 103 

and Pineapple Salad, 329 

Planked, loi 

Roe, 103 

Salad, 327 
Shallit, Jewish, 450 
Shalot, Vinegar, 550 
Shell fish, Choosing and Preparing 

of, 128 
Sherbets, Notes on, 490 
Short Bread, 401 
Shortcakes, 424-426 

k la Panchard, 424 

Chicken, 213 
Shrimp, Aspic Salad, 348 

Bisque, 53 

Canape, 31 

Creamed, 137 

Notes on, 137 

Scalloped, 138 

Spanish Fricassee, 138 

Tarts, 138 

and Potato Salad, 344 
Sick-Room Hints, 555 
Silver Cake, 458 
Silverware, Care of, 1 7 

Cleaning, 20 



Simnel Cake, 471 

Simple Menus, 569 

Skate Soup, 40 

Slaw, Hot Cabbage, 277 

Small Cakes, 466-473 

Smelts, Fried, 116 

Snails, Notes on, 147 

Snapper, Red, Chowder, 55 

Snippi Doodles, 469 

Soda Water, Home Made, 521 

Sole, Filet of, 112, 113 

Solferino Soup, 43 

Solid Chocolate Cake, 456 

Sorrel Soup, 67 

Soubise (French Onion Sauce), 

245 
Soup Stocks, Fish, 40 

Red, 38 

Vegetable, 40 

White, 39 
Soups, 37-92 

h. la Cantatrice, 44 

k la Reine, 59 

Cereal, 77 

Cold, 80 

Concentrated (for Camping), 
604 

Conserve, 41 

Cream and Pur6e, 71 

Dumplings, 89 

Fish, 48 

Fruit, 83 

Game, 59 

Garnishes, 87 

Jellied, 80 

Meat, 41 

Notes on, 37 

Nut, 83 

Poultry, 59 

Vegetable, 63 
Sour Cream Sauce, 307 

Roast, 180 
Southern Pickle, 547 

^y' 544 _ _ 
Spaghetti a la Turque, 321 

Buttered, 321 

Cutlets, 320 

in Tomato Aspic, 321 

Italian, 320 

Notes on, 319 

Spanish Cake, 457 

Cream, 433 

Fritters, 171 

Mackerel, 122 

Omelet, 368 

Onions Baked, 287 



632 



Index 



Spanish — Continued 

Pickles, 548 

Relish, 259 

Soup, 85 
Spice Bag, to Make a, 543 

Cakes, 474 

Hot, 248 
Spiced Vin^ar (Sweet), 551 
Spinach Coloring, 258 

Loaf, 301 

Pur6e, 75 

Relish, for Salad Course, 

Soumig, 301 

Soup, 70 

to Wash and Boil, 300 

with Macaroni, 320 

with Marrons, 302 
Sponge Cake, 456, 578 

Jelly, 4^ 
Sprouts, JBrussels, Escalloped, 

275 
Squab Boned, 224 

Broiled, 223 

Cookery, 222 

en Casserole, 224 

Fried, 224 

Salad, 332 

Stewed, 224 
Squash Hubbard, 300 

Italian, Notes on, 299 
Steaks k la Creole, 188 

en Casserole, 189 

Hambui^er, 612 

Notes en Cooking and Serv- 
ing, 187 

Sauce for, 247 

See Beef. 

with Mushrooms, 189 
Stew, Brown, 184 

Dumplings, 89 

Irish, 199 

Kidney, 183 
Stock Pot, 37 
Strawberries, Candied, 506 

Cocktail, 513 

Cream, 433 

Frozen, 482 

Ice, 495 

Tam, 538 

Mousse, 497 

Omelet, 372 



Parfait, 493 

and Raspberry Salad, 351 

Sauce, 486 

Shortcake, 426 



String Beans, Baked, 274 
Cuban Style, 272 
to Boil, 274 
Strudel Austrian Apple, 427 

Cheese, 380 
Stuffed Olives, Home, 261 

Fowls, 209 
Stuflings, 230-233 
Succotash, 302 
Suet Dumplings, 91 

Pudding, 422 
Supreme of Fruits, 437 
Swan Cocktail, 511 
Sweet Cream Dressing, 357 
Sweet Fritters, 428-430 

Omelets, 371-373 

Pickled Bananas, 546 
Peppers, 546 

Pickles, 546 

Potatoes Glazed, 297 
with Sherry, 297 

See Pbtatoes 

Stuffing, 233 

and Sour Sauce for Steak, 

247 
Spiced Vine^, 551 

Sweetbread k la Port, 161 

and Chestnut Paste, 592 

and Lobster en Casserole, 130 

and Marrons, 154 

and Mushrooms, 161, 195 

Baked, Salad, 331 

Entire, 161 

Fritters, 170 

Lamb's, 200 

Notes on, 192 

Olives, 160 

Pat6, 162 

Savory Cherokees, 158 
Swiss Chicken Salad, 330 

Steak, 186 
Syllabub, 41 1 



Table Linens, 1 1 

for Veranda. 13 
perfuming of, i^ 
to Remove Stains from, 

Tangenne Preserves, 533 
Tansy Salad, 337 
Tapioca Soup, 78 

Custard, 41 1 

Jelly, 310, 572 
Tarts, 428-430 



Index 



633 



Tea, Notes on, 509, 560 

Cake, 459 

Frozen Beef, 81 
Tenderloins Roast and Stuffed, 
206 

Sheny, 153 
Terrapin, How to Prepare, 228 
Testing Pish, 93 
Thousand Island Dressing, 358 
Tilefish, Baked, 98 

Boiled, 99 

Cakes, 99 

Escalloped, 100 

Filet of, 100 

In Cucumber Jelly^ 124 

Rataplan, 100 

Turbot, 99 
Tipsy Salad, 352 
To Brown Flour, 260 

Dry Sage, 260 

Frost Holly Leavei, 261 
Toad in Hole, 156 
Toast Bombay, 120 

Cinnamon, 573 

Cream, 573 

Water, 559 
Tomato Aspic, Spaghetti in, 321 

Baskets, 257 

Bisque, 76 

Chowchow, 517 

Canap^ (Cold), 33 

Chutney, 545 

Curry, 237 

Ep«s, 363 

Fi?s.549 
Pned, 502 

Green Mincemeat, 547 

Pie, 450 

[eUy, 345. 539 
.etchup, 552 
Sauce, 237 
Soup (Simple), 58X 
Cream of, 76 
Fresh, 69 
Soy (Ripe), 544 
Stewed (Fresh), 303 
Stuffed, 303 

as a garnish, 259 
Tongue, Boiled, 193 
Polish stewed, 153 
Smoked, 185 
Turnovers, 160 
Trifles, Notes on English, 412 
Tripe, 186 

k la Creole, 160 
h la Poulette, 157 



M 



Creole Pat^s, 165 
Hood of. Roasted, 193 
Trotters, iqq 
Truffles, k rltalienne, 306 
and Ham, ^06 
au Nature!, 305 
Baked, 307 
Salad, ^7 
Tuna Pish. Baked in Peppers, 122 
Croquettes, 121 
Esodloped, 121 
Fritters, 169 
Loaf, 121 
Mignon, 123 
Pasties, 120 

and Pineapple Pat^, 164 
Tunny Fish in Tomato Sauce, 30 
Turkey, Use of Left-Overs, 218 
Deviled Legs, 219 
Roasting of, 218, 231, 232 
Soup, 62 
Turkish Delight, 503 
Paste, 503 
Stuffing, 231 
Turnip Croquettes, 304 
Fried, 303 
Notes on, 303 
Pie, 304 
Salad, 347 
Stuffed, 304 
Yellow, 304 
Turtle Soup (Green), 53 

Mock Soup, 45 
Tutti Frutti, 479 

Cheese, 380 
Tar, The, 536 
felly, 433 



U 



}: 



Uifleavened Bread. 400 
Up-Side-Downie Cakes, 467 
Use of Left-Overs, 218 



Vanilla Ice Cream, 577, 478 
Veal, Boiled Calf's Head, 191 

Bulgarian Chops, 194 

Calf's Liver, 191 

Croquettes, 196 

Cutlets, 191 

en Casserole, 195 

and Ham Pie, 192 

Joints, 176 

Notes on, 190 



634 



Index 



Veal — Continued 

Polish Chops, 193 

Ragout, 612 

Roast Filet of , 190 

Salad, 330 

Sweetbreads, 192, 195 
Vegetable Fritters, 168 

Mac^doine, 163, 311 
for Children, 591 

Marrow, 307 
Soup, 69 
Baked, 307 
Sweet Pickled, 548 

Salads, 332-337 

Soups, 6^ 

Stuffing for Fish, loi 
Vegetables, Chinese, 312 

in Jelly, 309 

Notes on, 265-269 
Vegetarian Roast, 308 
Venetian Bread Cakes, 405 
Vermicelli, Notes on, 322 

Custajrd, 322 

Soup, 79 
Victoria Sandwiches, 468 
Vinegar Candy, 502 

for Summer Salads, 550 

W 

Waffles, 403, 404 
Wahiut Fritters, 387 

Gravy, 248 

Ketchup, 554 

Kisses, 468 



Washington Cakes, A59 
Martha, Chowder, 54 

_ Pie, 453 

Water Chestnuts, 385 

Icing, 465 

Ices, Notes on, 490 
Watermelon Boat, 489 

Telly, 441 

Rind Pickled, 545 

Squares, 441 

Sandwiches, 441 

Serving of, 440 
Weakfish, Bombay Toast, 120 

Pudding, 120 
Welsh Nectar, 521 

Rarebit, 379 
West Indian Pudding, 422 
Wheat Cakes, 404 
White Mushroom Sauce, 248 

Sauce, 236 
Wine Cups, 514, 515 

Jelly, 557 
Mulled, 515 
Whey, 560 
Wintergrecn Bonbons, 506 



Yellow Turnips, 304 
Yorlcshire Pudding, 402 



Zwieback, Venetian, 574 



Ji Selection from the 
Catalogue of 

G. P. PUTNAM^S SONS 



Complete Catalogue* •ent 
on application 



' 



The Myrtle Reed 
Cook Book 

te"". 512 pages. $1.50 

"Olive Green" on the series of 
books issued under that designa- 
tion of authorship has brought joy 
to many a jaded appetite. Few 
have suspected that under that 
nam de plume was concealed the 
identity of Myrtle Reed, author 
of "Lavender and Old Lace," 
"Spinner in the Sun," and many 
other popular novels. The Myrtle 
Reed Cook Book is, in its field, as 
alluring a volume as are, in fiction, 
the novels of this author. 



G. P. Putnam's Sons 

New York London 



The Allied Cookery 

Manual 

By 

Grace Clergue Harrison 

and 

Gertrude Clergue 

Z/'. Boards, 75 cents net 

A compilation of the most seductive 
dishes native to the French, Italian , 
Russian, and Belgian. This volume is 
published in aid of the war sufferers in 
devastated districts in France. The 
book is prefaced by Stephen Leacock, 
and also contains an Introduction by 
the Hon. Raoul Dandurand, C!om- 
mandeur de la L6gion de Honneur. 



G* P. Putnam's Sons 

New York Lcmdon 



