641.50977311 
L148b I 



Balanced 
Meals 

WITH RECIPES 



LAKE VIEW WOMAN'S CLUB 



UNIVERSITY OF 

ILLlKr>?S LIBRARY 

AT URBA/«A champaign 

OAK STREET 

LIBRARY FACILITY 




Comer Book Shop 

102 Fourth Ave. 
New York 3, N. Y. 




(P ^^^M>^ 



-V > i-i 



■'llllllll'lill!lliililllillllltllll!lllilllllllllilll!llllllllllllillHllllllllllllllinilllHlllllllllllllllllllll'll»ll"'* 



Balanced Meals 

With Recipes 




FOOD VALUES 

DRYING AND COLD PACK CANNING 

MENUS, WITH AND WITHOUT MEAT, 

BOX LUNCHEONS 



By Members of the 

LAKE VIEW WOMAN'S CLUB 

2732 HAMPDEN COURT 
CHICAGO 



ri iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii.iiiiiiiiiiiiiiii!iiiiiiiiiii!iii!iin;niiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii:iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii;iiiii 



Ccpyright, 1917 

BY 

LAKE VIEW WOMAN'S CLUB 



All Rights Reserved 








HE Economics Department of the 
Lake View Woman's Club offers 
this book for sale for the benefit 
of the Club's Committee for the Aid of 
the Blind. This Committee administers a 
Friendly Fund, from which loans are 
made without interest to deserving blind 
people, in order that they may be estab- 
lished in suitable occupations and become 
self-supporting. 

Mrs. E. T. Cooke, Chairman. 

If you like our book, please recommend 
it to your friends. Price $1.00 per copy. 

Address : 

Mrs. Samuel D. Snow, 
4452 Beacon Street, 

Chicago, Illinois. 



REFERENCES 



FARMERS' BULLETINS 



Address 



DIVISION OF PUBLICATION 

U. S. Department of Agriculture 
Washington, D. C. 
Send for List. 



UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS 
Household Science Department 
Urbana, Illinois 
Ask to be put on mailing list. 



THE STATE BOARD OF AGRICULTURE 

Springfield, Illinois 

Will also send literature. 



TABLE OF CONTENTS 



Pages 

1. Food Values 7 

2. Drying, and Cold Pack Canning ^.11-13 

3. Menus, with meat, without meat, box luncheons. 15-19 

4. Soups and Chowders 20 

5/ Fish and Shellfish 26 

6. Meats and Poultry 33 

7. Vegetables and Meatless Dishes 46 

8. Salads and Relishes 59 

9. Sandwiches and Sandwich Fillings 72 

10. Bread, Muffins, Rolls, etc 75 

11. Cake, Cookies, Doughnuts, Gringerbread, etc. ... 89 

12. Puddings and Pastry 120 

13. Ices and Desserts 140 

14. Jellies and Pickles 156 

15. Left-overs 168 

16. Miscellaneous 180 



''Every liousewife wJio practices strict econo-my puts 
Iter self in ilie ranks of tJiose wJio s^rve the Nation." 

— President of the United States. 



Three Strong Points oj Superiority 













THE SQUARE PACKAGE | 








BORDENS 






i 


Malted 








Milk 








<N THE SQUARE PACKASg 

EAGLE BRAND 






1^ 


HAS NO EQUAL 






M 


MunfacturM by 






V 


Borden^ Condenses Milk Ca 






M 


NEW YORK, U.S.A. 









A highly nutritive drink 
for all ages and conditions 



1st. It contains a larger 
percentage of milk and 
less cereal, therefore 
produces less maltose 
and is not as sweet as 
other brands. 

This has four advantages : 

a — It is more palatable, 
especially to invalids, 
who almost invariably 
object to sweets. 

6 — It has far less tendency 
to nauseate. 

c — It will not ferment, or 
cause disturbing gases. 

d — It is more soluble. 

2nd. By using a lower tem- 
perature the BORDEN 
process preserves the 
malt enzymes thus 
afiFordinfe an aid to 
further digestion. 

3rd. By preserving the 
activity of the malt 
ferments when the milk 
is added, the casein is 
thoroughly predigested 



ALL ABOVE POINTS ARE PECULIAR TO 

BORDEN'S 

MALTED MILK 



In the Square Package 
Once Tried Always Used 



Food Values 



A balanced ration is that food which keeps the indi- 
vidual 100 per cent efficient mentally and physically. This 
varies with different people because of their bodily struc- 
ture, occupation and climatic conditions, but a few facts 
about food values may prove of assistance to the caterer of 
the household. 

Each meal need not be a balanced one but it is necessary 
that certain elements, in certain quantities, and in certain 
combinations should form the daily ration. Protein, starch, 
sugar, fat, mineral salts, cellulose and water enter into the 
composition of human food, repairing, energizing and 
warming the body. 

The proteins are the structure builders, therefore are 
needed for repair work. They form a large part of the 
grains, the legumes, nuts, cheese, the white of the egg and 
lean meat. Scientists have found that much less protein is 
required than is generally consumed by people of meat- 
eating nations, and that there is danger in eating an excess 
of protein, as the body has no provision for storing it for 
future use as it stores the starches in the liver and both 
the starches and fats in the adipose tissue. Protein not 
needed for repair work must be burned up in the system 
and part of the resulting ashes are solids which increase 
the burdens of the eliminative process and probably have 
much to do with the causes of rheumatism, etc. On the 
non-meat ration one is not as likely to overeat of the vege- 
table proteins because the savoriness of the meat is lacking. 

Starches enter into the composition of nearly all vege- 
table foods. Cereals, breadstuffs and legumes are seventy- 



FOOD VALUES 



five per cent starch. It is necessary to cook starches well 
so that the granule may burst its cellulose covering and 
be ready for the action of the saliva. 

The sugar of fruits requires no digestion, but cane and 
maple sugars need the action of the intestinal juices to pre-, 
pare them for absorption into the human system. 

Fats are of two kinds, those of animal origin such as 
lard, suet, fat meat, cream, butter and eggs, and the vege- 
table fats which are found in the various nuts,' in olives, and 
in the grains, especially oats and corn. 

The mineral salts form a small part of the food in 
weight but are very important to the health. These salts 
are vital in the work of building up the bones, contribute to 
the fluids of the body and stimulate the nerve action. Salts 
are found in the cereals, a small amount in vegetables, and 
in most fruits. In cooking vegetables a small quantity of 
water should be used and the water preserved so that all 
the valuable salts' may b6 retained. 

Cellulose Tepresents the great bulk of all vegetables and 
fruits. Only thirty per cent of it is digested, but is neces- 
sary because it gives bulk to the food thus assisting in the 
work of the intestines. It is also valuable in that it helps 
to satisfy the appetite, thus keeping us from eating an ex- 
cess of proteins or starches. 

The vitamines are as yet only vaguely understood, but 
it has been clearly shown that such substances exist in 
fresh uncooked food and that much of their value may be 
destroyed by certain cooking processes. Canned foods have 
lost some of them and highly prepared cereals lack them. 
This can be made up by always serving some uncooked 
vegetable or raw fruit daily. 

Pure milk, which is not refined and from which nothing 
is removed, is in itself a very valuable food. The raisin is 
almost a complete food. There is a deficiency in protein 



FOOD VALUES 



but it is rich in all the organic salts, and cooked with break- 
fast cereals, bread or muffins it is of great value. 

The calorie value of food must also be taken into consid- 
eration. 'The term calorie is used to express the fuel value 
of foods. Starches, sugars and fats are the food elements 
which serve as the body's fuel.. Science has discovered 
that man's needs vary from that of the average business 
man at 2,500 calories a day to that of the itian engaged in 
an occupation requiring great physical strength at 5,000 
calories. It is well to know that of all meats pork has the 
greatest fuel value in most of its cuts. Mutton, beef, lamb 
and veal are of fuel value in the order named. Goose has 
over four times the calorie value of chicken, and twice that 
of any other fowl. Even meat soups have very little fuel 
value, but vegetable soups are rich in mineral salts. Fish, 
with the exception of salmon, is low; eggs are not high; 
butter is very high ; oysters and shellfish are very low. All 
flours, meals and cereals are high, oatmeal ranking high- 
est. Most vegetables and fruits are low, but nuts are high. 
Sugar, honey and chocolate are extremely high. 

The question, of food combinations is highly important 
because it has been determined that all foods give rise either 
to acids or bases, and that the acids should be counteracted 
by a sufficient quantity of bases or alkalies to neutralize 
them. The acid-forming foods are the starches, the fats, 
animal proteins, and all sugars except honey and fruit 
sugars. The alkali foods are the fresh vegetables except the 
starchy ones, most fruits, especially those which afe strong 
in mineral salts, milk and barley. 

Therefore the balanced ration means that combination 
of foods in which the acids are entirely balanced by the 
alkalies and a selection of such foods as will furnish the 
proper amount of protein for the repair work, and will 
have the required calorie or energy" making value, and the 
mineral matter necessary in regulating the body processes. 



10 EOOD VALUES 

The following simple menus, which are planned for one 
person, meet the above requi 'ements : 

BREAKFAST 

One apple, banana or orange ; three-fourths of a cup of 
cooked cereal ; one-fourth cup of cream ; two teaspoons of 
sugar ; one slice of bread ; one square of butter ; one egg or 
two ounces of meat, fish or poultry. 

DINNER 

One-fourth pound of meat or other protein food; one 
medium-sized potato; three ounces of another vegetable- 
(non-starchy) ; several stalks of celery ; one slice of bread ; 
one square of butter ; one portion of steamed apple or other 
fruit pudding, with sauce. 

SUPPER 

One portion of a creamed dish ; one serving of rice ; one 
slice of bread; one square of butter; one large slice of 
cake, with frosting. 

THE UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT ASKS 

That we encourage good food habits. 
That we discourage finicky tastes. 
That we avoid serving a great variety at one meal. 

Josephine Van Meenen. 



Drying Fruits and Vegetables 



Drying is the oldest method of preserving vegetables, 
fruits and meats. 

It stops decay in its early stages and prevents it later on. 
It should be done at a very low temperature, a^ flavors and 
odors pass off and volatilize at even moderate temperature. 
Therefore, properly dehydrated fruits and vegetables re- 
tain all the vitamines, minerals, a;iid other good qualities 
of fresh food, as well as imprisoning their delicate flavor 
and fine bouquet. 

Articles to be dried must be clean and fresh. Scrub 
vegetables and prepare. If a steel knife is used it must be 
clean and bright. Slice evenly, in the case of large fruits 
and vegetables. Vegetables should be blanched, using the 
same method as for cold pack canning. The blanching time 
for green, lima and string beans is six to ten minutes ; peas, 
six minutes ; corn on cob, five to ten minutes ; spinach, pars- 
ley and other herbs, four to six minutes. Kemove from 
cold water and dry between cloths or by exposure to the 
air for a few minutes before placing in drier. Any green 
vegetable can be dried. There are different methods of 
drying: sun, electric fan, oven, with open door, and on a 
tray over hot air. The essentials are a good circulation of 
clean air, and a temperature of between 110 ajid 145 de- 
grees. Begin with a low temperature and increase grad- 
ually. In the case of delicate fruits the temperature should 
go no higher than 120 degrees. Dry fruits on a cloth, as 
they should not come in contact with metal, and will stick 
to paper. It is impossible to give accurate figures as to 
the length of time it will take. When dry pieces will be 



12 DRYING FRUITS AND VEGETABLES 

leathery and pliable. In drying corn, which is the hardest 
of all vegetables to can, Dr. Gore of the U. S. Bureau of 
Chemistry says : ' ' Only very young and tender corn should 
be used for drying, and should be prepared immediately 
after gathering. Cook in boiling water, two to five minutes, 
long enough to set the milk. Cut kernels from cob with sharp 
knife, taking care not to cut pieces off cob. Spread thinly 
on trays, and place in position to dry ; stir occasionally. ' ' 
If corn is put into a thin boiling syrup, after being cut 
from cob, then dipped out and spread to dry, it is much 
improved. All food must be stirred or turned occasionally 
while drying. 

The storage place of dried foods must be dry. To keep 
well, all products should be ''conditioned" for a few days 
after leaving drier, and returned to drier if found to be 
moist. ''Conditioning" consists in pouring from one con- 
tainer to another at intervals during three or four days. 

Bertha L. McLean. 



Cold Pack Canning 

Cold Pack Canning Is the Kesult of an Effort to 
Standardize Recipes 

Required : A clean wash boiler or new galvanized can 
with close-fitting cover. 

A wooden rack to fit the bottom .of boiler, to keep jars 
from touching the bottom and to allow for circulation. 

Wire frames to hold jars. A frame to hold a single jar 
is most convenient. A lifter or wire potato masher to lift 
jars from boiler. 

No special type of jar is required. 

Rubbers must be new and covers perfect. 

Boil old tops in baking soda, and water before putting 
away, and in vinegar before using again. 

Wash all fruits and • vegetables thoroughly. Be sure 
tJiey are clean and fresh. 

Blanch vegetables by putting in colander, wire basket 
or cheesecloth bag, immerse in boiling water, closely cov- 
ered, the required number of minutes. Then dip in cold 
water. 

Sterilize jars, rubbers and tops by boiling for five min- 
utes. 

Stand jars in hot water while filling. Be sure there is 
no draft, it Avill crack the jars. 

Pack jars and finish filling with hot water and season- 
ing, except for tomatoes and fruit. 

Tomatoes should not have water added, fill jars com- 
pletely with juice, season with salt. 

Fill fruit jars with thin, medium or thick syrup, as 
desired. A thin syrup is made by boiling three quarts of 
water with one pound sugar for ten minutes. A heavy 



14 COLD PACK CANNING 

syrup is made by boiling three and a half quarts water 
with two pounds sugar. Do not waste by allowing it to 
overflow the cans. 

Place rubbers and tops in position. Screw tops on 
tight, then turn back one-quarter round to loosen. Tightly 
screwed, covers will crack jars. Fill boiler with water 
enough to cover jars at least two inches. Place jars on rack 
before water is too hot. 

Do not begin to count time until water boils hard, and 
keep it boiling hard for the required time. Then remove 
jars. 

Tighten covers and examine for leaks. Invert jars. 
Cover with dry towel to avoid draft. 

If leaks are found change rubbers and boil again for 
ten minutes. Wrap jar in paper and store in a cool, dry 
place. 

TIME-TABLE FOR BLANCHIING AND STERILIZING 

Blanch apricots, peaches, citrus fruits, apples and pears 
from one to two minutes, to remove skins easily. Other 
fruits require no blanching. Spinach and all greens should 
be blanched from ten to fifteen minutes ; tomatoes, two min- 
utes; corn on cob, eight minutes; asparagus, two to four 
minues; beets, six minutes; lima or string beans or peas, 
five minutes. All fruits are cooked in the sterilizer sixteen 
minutes after the water begins to boil hard, except apples 
and pears, twenty minutes, and pineapples, thirty minutes. 
The time for asparagus and beets is one and one-half hours ; 
spinach, beans and peas, two hours; corn, three hours; 
tomatoes, twenty-two minutes. 

Bertha L. McLean. 



BALANCED MENUS FOR 
DECEMBER, JANUARY AND FEBRUARY 

^ BREAKFAST 

With Meat Without Meat 

One-half grape fruit. ^ Oatmeal with dates. 

Country sausage with Poached egg on toast. 

Bread griddle cakes. 

LUNCH OR SUPPER 

Creamed chipped beef. Cream of tomato soup, cheese 

Baking powder biscuit. straws. 

Fruit pudding. Hot raised biscuit. 

Perfection salad. 

DINNER 

Pot roast of beef. Nut loaf. 

Hashed brown potatoes. Baked potatoes. 

Savoy cabbage. Cabbage and celery salad. 

Dutch apple cake. Pumpkin pie. 

BREAKFAST 

Bananas with cereal. Apple sauce. 

Philadelphia scrapple or, Coffee cake. 

Fried mush with bacon. Codfish balls. 

LUNCH OR SUPPER 

Ham patties. Cream of celery soup. 

One egg muffins. Cheese souffle. 

Tomato relish. Spice cake with fudge frost- 

Orange cake. ing. 

DINNER 

Baked pork chops. Baked white fish. 

Fried apples. Mashed potatoes. 

Baked sweet potatoes. Brussels sprouts and chest- 
Cabbage and celery. nuts. 

Raisin puffs. 'Ambrosia. 

BREAKFAST 

Oranges. Figs. 

Waffles. Bread omelet. 

Broiled ham. Corn muffins. 

LUNCH OR SUPPER 

Corned beef hash, sauce tar- Salmon puffs. 

tare. Nut bread. 

Bran muffins. ^ Sliced canned pineapple. 

Butterscotch pie. Spice cake. 

DINNER 

Chicken en casserole. Baked beans. 

Boiled rice. Brown bread. 

Com fritters. Tomato relish. 

Apple roll. Floating island. 

15 



MENUS FOR MARCH, APRIL AND MAY 



With Meat. 
Stewed prunes. 
Oatmeal bread. 
Hamburg steak. 

Fricatelli. 
Tomato jelly. 
Graham bread. 
Lemon cream pudding. 



BREAKFAST 

Without Meat. 
Baked apple. 
Cereal. 

Tomato omelet. 
LUNCH OR SUPPER 

Rice aspic. 

Orange and Bermuda onion 
salad. 

Raisin brown bread sand- 
wiches. 



Goulasche, fried noodles 
Young onions. 
Cabbage relish. 
Washington pie. 



DINNER 

Scalloped oysters. 
French fried potatoes. 
Buttered beets. 
Russian loaf. 
BREAKFAST 



Radishes. 
Bran muffins. 
Bacon and eggs. 

Corn chowder. 

Rissoles. 

Whole wheat bread. 

Orange cream. 

Casserole dinner. 
French artichokes. 
Bishop Whipple. 



Orange marmalade. 
Creamed fish on toast. 
Parker House rolls. 
LUNCH OR SUPPER 

Oyster bisque. 
Delicious salad. 
Brown bread sandwiches. 
Salted nuts. 

DINNER 

Tomato bouillon with crack- 
ers. 
Boiled fish, egg sauce. 
Potato pancake. 
Fig apple jelly, sponge cake. 

BREAKFAST 

powdered Strawberries on shredded 
wheat biscuit. 
Scrambled eggs. 



Strawberries with 

sugar. 
Puffed rice. 
Creamed ham. 
Baking powder biscuits. 

LUNCH OR SUPPER 

Luncheon spaghetti. Fish en coquille. 

Creamed young onions. Piccalilli. 

Stewed rhubarb, gingerbread. Oatmeal bread. 

Chocolate pudding. 

DINNER 



Ox-tail soup. 
Escalop royale. 
Mashed potatoes. 
Asparagus with butter dress- 
ing. 
Mrs. Peirce's rice dessert. 



Cream of spinach soup. 
Omelet with asparagus tips. 
Scalloped potatoes. 
Radishes. 
PufF pudding. 



16 



MENUS FOR JUNE, JULY AND AUGUST 

« BREAKFAST 

With Meat Without Meat 

Radishes. Stewed rhubarb. 

Quick rolls. Cornbread. 

Frizzled beef on cream toast. Baked eggs. 

LUNCH OR SUPPER 

Cold tongue, rhubarb jelly. Cheese souffle. 

Young onions. Lettuce with mayonnaise. 

Brown bread. Muffins. 

Nut cream, cookies. Fresh cocoanut pie. 

DINNER 

Boiled beef, horseradish sauce. Fresh vegetable soup. 
Boiled potatoes. Baked salmon, cream gravy. 

Cauliflower in cream. Baked potatoes. 

Fruit tapioca. Baked eggplant. 

Strawberry sponge. 
BREAKFAST 

Raspberries. Sliced pineapple. 

Cereal. Cornflakes. 

Ham souffle. Blueberry muffins. 

Corn muffins. Soft boiled eggs. 

LUNCH OR SUPPER 

Chicken and rice croquettes. Potted fish, garnished with 

Green peas. parsley. 

Graham bread. Lettuce with cottage cheese 

Cherry pudding. balls, mayonnaise. 

Berries with cream, hermits. 

DINNER 

Baked pork tenderloin. Cream of asparagus soup. 

New potatoes in cream. Spanish rice. 

Banana salad. Green peas and carrots. 

Lemon sherbet. Chocolate parfait. 

BREAKFAST 

Cantaloupe. Apricots. 

Broiled mutton chop. Puffed rice. 

Virginia spoon bread. Creamed hard boiled eggs on 

toast. 
LUNCH OR SUPPER 

Mrs. Sinclair's spaghetti. Cream of carrots soup. 

Cucumbers, sour cream dress- Potato salad. 

ing. Stuffed cantaloupe. 
Sliced peaches, white cake. 

DINNER 

Pot pie with dumplings. Broiled white fish. 

Summer squash. Mashed potatoes. 

Vegetable salad, French dress- Sliced tomatoes with mayon- 

dng. naise. 

Honeydew melon. Spanish cream. 

17 



MENUS FOR SEPTEMBER, OCTOBER 
AND NOVEMBER 

BREAKFAST 

With Meat Without Meat 

Pears. Peaches. 

Ham omelet. Cereal. 

Corn muffins. Green corn griddle cakes, 

maple syrup. 
LUNCH OR SUPPER 

Chop suey. Baked tomatoes stuffed with 

Boiled rice. rice and green peppers. 

Olive oil pickles. Peanut butter sandwiches. 

French fruit salad. Cream layer cake. 

DINNER 

Beef loaf. Salmon loaf No. 2. 

Creamed potatoes. l*otato puff. 

Corn on cob. • Stuffed cucumber salad. 

Hot day dessert. Baked pears, spice cake. 

BREAKFAST 
Grapes. Plums. 

Corn bread. Cornflakes with cream. 

Bacon and sweet potatoes. Fish cakes. 

LUNCH OR SUPPER 

Cold roast beef, cherry pickle. Hard boiled eggs, tomato 
Scones. sauce. 

Fig pudding No. 2. Spanish buns. 

Fruit salad. 
DINNER 

Chicken pie. Baked halibut. 

Baked sweet potatoes. Mashed potatoes. 

Lettuce with Thousand Island Lima beans. 

dressing. Apple pie, cheese. 

Suet pudding. 

BREAKFAST 

Fresh grape juice. Bananas with orange juice. 

Com bread. Broiled salt mackerel. 

Chipped beef with tomato Muffins. 
sauce. 

LUNCH OR SUPPER 

Cream of chicken soup, with Toasted cheese fingers. 

rice. Eussian salad. 

Tomato, stuffed with cabbage Ginger pears. 

salad. 
Cup Custard. 

DINNER 
Mexican beef loaf. Fried Oysters. 

Stuffed baked potatoes. Riced potatoes. 

Cauliflower au gratln. Corn relish. 

Banana short cake. Celery in cream. 

Baked Indian pudding. 

18 



MENUS FOR BOX LUNCHEONS 



1. Whole wheat bread with filling of potted ham. Pep- 
per and nut sandwiches. Chocolate layer cake. White 
grapes. Salted peanuts. 

2. Baked bean and brown bread sandwiches. White 
bread with cottage cheese and chopped nuts. Ripe olives. 
Spice cake. Apples. After dinner mints. 

3. Stuffed rolls. Oatmeal or whole wheat bread with 
orange marmalade. Nut tea cakes. Sugared hazel nuts. 
Malaga grapes. 

4. Sandwiches of white bread and jellied meat loaf. 
Olives. Nut bread and butter sandwiches. Sponge cake. 
Bananas. Cheese straws. 

5. Oatmeal or whole wheat bread with chopped hard 
boiled egg and mayonnaise. White bread with peanut but- 
ter and chopped dates. Banbury tarts. Candied orange 
straws. 

6. Sliced chicken or veal sandwiches. Stuffed celery. 
Oatmeal or whole wheat bread with chopped nuts and 
olives. Dates filled with fondant, rolled in granulated 
sugar. 

7. White bread, with sardine and cucumber filling. 
Whole wheat or oatmeal bread sandwiches with chopped 
dates and cottage cheese. Hermits. Oranges. 

8. White bread, spread with finely minced corn beef, 
the opposite slice with sauce tartar e. Raisin brown bread 
and butter. White cake. Candied ginger. 

9. White bread, filled with nuts, cheese and mayon- 
naise as for cheese balls. One slice whole wheat, one slice 
white bread, with conserve filling. Ginger bread. Apples. 

10. White bread with potted tongue, or fish. Stuffed 
olives. Brown bread with lemon cream filling. Devil's 
food. Pulled figs. 

11. White bread and chipped beef sandwich. Whole 
wheat bread spread with mayonnaise, filled with sliced 
bananas and chopped peanuts. Cream cake. White grapes. 

12. Small baking powder biscuit, split and spread with 
creamed minced hanL Cucumber pickles. Deviled olive 
sandwiches. Chocolate crullers. Apples. Sajted nuts. 

19 



SOUPS AND CHOWDERS 



OYSTER BISQUE 

One quart oysters, one quart milk, one small cup cracker 
crumbs, one tablespoon butter, rubbed into one teaspoon 
cornstarch, pepper ajid salt. Drain oysters, chop fine, heat 
juice, add chopped oysters, boil three minutes, put through 
sieve. Heat milk in double boiler, add crumbs, cornstarch 
and seasoning, lastly the oyster soup. 

Mrs. E. T. Cooke. 

TOMATO BOUILLON 

One can tomatoes, one cup water, twelve peppercorns, 
bit of bay leaf, four cloves, two teaspoons sugar, one onion 
sliced. Cook twenty minutes. Strain and add one teaspoon 
salt, and one-eighth teaspoon soda (be careful not to get 
too much soda). In another dish cook two tablespoonfuls 
butter, and three level tablespoons flour. Then pour the 
liquid on the roux slowly. 

Mrs. J. M. Coen. 

CORN CHOWDER 



One-quarter pound salt pork in thick slice, cut and fried 
with two medium onions until nicely browned. Add three 
medium sized potatoes, or one pint cubed, cover with 
water, just enough to cook the potatoes until they are 
almost done, not soft. The water must be nearly ab- 



SOUPS AND CHOWDERS 21 

sorbed. Add one quart of new milk and one can of corn, or 
one quart green corn. Let boil five minutes, serve with 
crackers ; season well, or to taste, with salt and pepper. 

Mrs. Martin Madson. 

FISH CHOWDER 

Parboil a good sized fish (pike is preferable) in fresh 
water and remove the bones, slice an equal quantity of 
potatoes. Put chopped salt pork in the bottom of the 
kettle, and fry brown ; cover with successive layers of fish, 
potatoes and milk crackers until the kettle is nearly full. 
Add enough water to boil the whole for thirty minutes. 

Mrs. Martin Madson. 

BAKED CUSTARD FOR SOUP 

Three eggs, one pint milk-; season with white pepper, 
salt, chopped parsley, Worcestershire sauce. Bake in oven 
and when ready, cool, cut in cubes, and serve in hot 
bouillon. 

Mrs. Charles J. Tonk. 

FARINA DUMPLINGS FOR SOUP 

Put one-half pint milk and one ounce butter to boil. Sift 
into it two ounces farina, stirring constantly. It must be 
stirred until the whole mass has been loosened from the 
stew pan. Remove from the fire, let cool a little, then beat 
in, one at a time, the yolks of two eggs, season with salt 
and a grate of nutmeg. Stir in the well-beaten whites by 
means of a teaspoon which must first be dipped into the 
boiliner broth; cut into oblong dumplings and drop into 
the boiling broth, cover and boil ten minutes. 

Mrs. J. B. Meyer. 



22 SOUPS AND CHOWDERS 

SOUP BALLS 

These are nice with any clear soup. Rub one tablespoon 
butter to a cream and mix with the yolk of one egg; add 
one-quarter teaspoon each of salt and nutmeg, one teaspoon 
chopped parsley, three tablespoons grated bread crumbs, 
and the stiffly beaten white of the egg. Form into balls and 
boil seven minutes in the soup. This will make ten balls. 

Mrs. Martin Madson. 

HUNGARIAN BUTTE RNOCKERLN 

Large beef rump bone, two pounds lean mutton. Wash 
thoroughly, and put over a slow fire with sufficient cold 
water to cover, cook slowly until meat is ready to fall to 
pieces, strain and set aside to cool. When cold remove the 
grease (which, being part suet, makes good shortening 
to mix with butter for cookies, the meat is good for ha^h). 
Heat the broth and when boiling, drop in dump- 
lings, made as follows : one teaspoon butter creamed very 
light, break in one egg and beat thoroughly, then gently 
stir in cracker crumbs sufficient to make light dumplings, 
being very careful not to make them too stiff; salt to 
taste. Separate this into three parts, grating a little nut- 
meg over each. Boil five minutes. 

Mrs. E. T. Cooke. 

CREAM SOUP 

Any beajis or peas cooked until tender with a bit of 
onion to flavor, and mashed through a colander. To each 
cup pulp add three cups hot milk, salt and oil or cream to 
season. Thoroughly beat in an egg the last thing. Serve, 
hot. 

Mrs. E. T.- Cooke. 



SOUPS AND CHOWDERS 23 

CREAM OF CORN SOUP 

One can corn, one-half teaspoon sugar, one slice bacon, 
one small onion, one carrot, one cup cream, one pint milk, 
pepper and salt. Boil corn, carrot, sugar, bacon and 
onion down in one pint water. When soft, put through 
strainer and add to creani, milk, pepper and salt. Boil 
about three minutes. 

Mrs. James W. Buell. 

OX-TAIL SOUP 

Two ox- tails, one large onion, one tablespoon salt, one 
tablespoon mixed herbs, four cloves, four peppercorns, one 
tablespoon beef drippings, four- quarts cold water. Wash 
and cut up the ox-tails, separating them at the joints. Cut 
the onion fine and fry in the hot beef drippings. When 
slightly browned, draw the onion to one side of the pan, and 
broAvn half of the ox-tails. Put the fried onion and ox- 
tails in the soup kettle, and cover with four quarts of cold 
water. Tie cloves, peppercorns and herbs in a small piece 
of strainer cloth, and add them to the soup. Add the salt, 
and simmer three or four hours. Select some of the nicest 
joints to serve with the soup. Skim off fat, strain, and 
serve very hot. If vegetables are served with the soup, chop 
fine or in fancy shapes one pint of mixed vegetables and 
boil twenty minutes or until tender. 

Mrs. Joseph Frank. 

POTATO SOUP 

One scant cup mashed potato, one pint milk, one tea- 
spoon chopped onion, one-half teaspoon salt, one-half tea- 
spoon celery salt, one tablespoon butter, one tablespoon 



24 SOUPS AND CHOWDERS 

flour. Boil onion in milk, add flour, potato and seasoning. 
Let it come to a boil. 

Mrs. J. Henry Trt^man. 

SOUP STOCK 

Take clean, lean meat, put in cold water; one quart of 
water to one pound of meat. Heat gradually to the boil- 
ing point ; simmer slowly seven or eight hours. Season with 
pepper and salt; cool, skim, strain and set away. This 
makes a foundation for any kind of soup. 

Mrs. Martin Madson. 

SPLIT PEA SOUP 

One ham bone, one carrot, one onion, one pint split 
peas. Soak the peas over night, and in the morning put on 
to cook with the ham bone, the carrot and onion sliced, and 
two quarts of water. Simmer for three hours, then pass 
through a puree sieve, season with salt and pepper. It is 
good just this way, but is greatly improved by the addition 
of a pint of milk, and when served at luncheon in bouillon 
cups, a spoonful of whipped cream, and a sprinkle of 
chopped parsley add to taste and appearance. 

Mrs. S. D. Snow. 

VEGETABLE SOUP 

One large beef soup bone, one medium soup bone (veal), 
three or four onions, bunch parsley, English and German 
celery, leek, one or two parsnips, string beans and car- 
rots. Scrub and dice vegetables but do not peel. Cook 
over slow fire several hours. Skim off fat after it cools. 
Strain and add one can Campbell 's tomato soup, and a dash 
of Worcestershire sauce. Heat and serve. 

Mrs. Geo. J. Haas. 



FISH AND SHELLFISH 



BAKED CODFISH 

One box codfish, six large potatoes. Soak codfish about 
three hours. Boil potatoes. Mash potatoes and codfish well 
together with one large lump butter, one pint hot milk, one 
egg. Beat all until light. Bake about forty minutes. Pour 
melted butter over. Cover with chopped hard boiled eggs. 

Mrs. Bradley Buell. 

CODFISH BALLS 

One cup codfish cut fine, two cups raw potatoes cut 
small. Boil together until done. Drain and mash together. 
Have ready three eggs beaten light, add to mixture, beat all 
together, dip out with spoon and fry in hot lard a nice 
brown. Excellent. 

Mrs, W. p. Dunn. 

CRAB FLAKES, LE GUERE 

One cup crab flakes, one level tablespoon butter, one 
level tablespoon flour, one cup milk, one tablespoon 
chopped pimento or green pepper, one egg hard boiled and 
chopped, salt and paprika. Cook all together about fifteen 
minutes, saving the yolk of the egg to be grated over the 
top when served. 

Mrs. D. C. Prescott. 



FISH AND SHELLFISH 27 

BOILED FISH 

A square piece of halibut or salmon, weigMng about 
two pounds, a piece near the tail is good. After washing 
carefully, place on perforated plate, and tie around it a 
cloth or string, with which to lift it out of the water. Have 
salted water simmering in kettle large enough to hold the 
plate, and cover the fish. Put in fish and simmer, uncov- 
ered, for half an hour. Take out, drain and serve on hot 
platter, with egg sauce. 

Egg Sauce — One pint milk, scald in double boiler. Beat 
two eggs in pint bowl, with one-half teaspoon salt. Pour 
the scalding milk over, beat well, and return to boiler. 
Cook till it coats the spoon. One or two hard boiled eggs 
chopped, and stirred in carefuUy just before serving is an 
addition. Serve in gravy boat, powdered liberally with 
paprika. If any is left over, free the fish from skin and 
bones, flake, and add to the sauce, place in baking dish, or 
ramekins, cover with browned crumbs, and heat through in 
oven. Mrs. S. D. Snow. 

BAKED HALIBUT 

Place slices of halibut steak in pan, season with salt and 
pepper, cover with bread or toast crumbs, put a small lump 
of butter on each piece and pour in milk so as to fill even 
^^dth top of fish, but do not disturb bread crumbs. Bake 
one hour. Miss Van Meenen. 

HORSE RADISH SAUCE FOR BOILED PIKE OR 

IVIUSKALLONGB 

No. 1 

Grate one fresh horse radish root, add one level table- 
spoon sugar, one and one-half tablespoons vinegar, one 



28 FISH AND SHELLFISH 

bottle whipping cream (not whipped). Serve with drawn 
butter. 

Mrs. Chari^s J. Tonk. 

HORSE RADISH SAUCE 

No. 2 

Whip sweet or sour cream until stiif, season well with 
salt, and stir thick with grated horse radish. Chill or 
freeze, and serve with cold or hot meats or fish. 

Mrs. S. D. Snow. 

OYSTERS WITH MUSHROOMS 

One cup rich hot milk, one tablespoon butter, two tea- 
spoons parsley, chopped, one teaspoon onion juice, one-half 
cup mushrooms, one teaspoon flour, one pint oysters, salt 
and pepper. Cook flour in one-half of the butterj and add 
hot milk. Boil until creamy and add the seasoning, onion 
juice, chopped parsley, and the remainder of the but- 
ter. Canned mushrooms added, and set over hot water ten 
minutes (if fresh, wash in cold water, drain, and simmer 
for ten minutes in the cream sauce). Five minutes before 
serving, add oysters which have been washed and drained. 
When oysters curl, they a.re done. Use double boiler for 
this dish, as it scorches easily. 

Miss Allie F. Armstrong. 

SCALLOPED OYSTERS 

One quart oysters, four cups bread crumbs from the in- 
side of a loaf of bread at least a day old, moisten with a 
half cup of butter, place in dish, alternating oysters and 
crumbs; before the last layer of crumbs add eight table- 
spoons of the juice from the strained oysters, finish with 
the buttered crumbs. Season to taste. Bake from twenty 
minutes to one-half hour. 

Mrs. Martin Madson. 



FISH AND SHELLFISH 29 

BAKED SALMON, CREAM GRAVY 

One can salmon, boned and picked to pieces. Place one 
layer of salmon, one layer of bread crumbs in two-pint dish, 
season with salt, pepper and bits of butter, so on, till all is 
used up. Cover the last'layer with cracker crumbs, pour 
over this one cup sweet milk. Bake twenty minutes. 

Cream gravy : Put in a stew pan one tablespoon butter, 
when hot stir one small tablespoon flour into this and pour 
on milk until it thickens like cream, add one cup pea^, or 
one can, season with salt and pepper, pour over salmon. 
Delicious. 

Mrs. Martin Madson. 

MOLDED SALMON WITH CUCUMBER DRESSING 

Two large cans fish, remove bones and skin, flake up. 
Mix together three-quarters tablespoon mustard, three- 
quarters tablespoon salt, or less, three tablespoons sugar, 
or less, yolks of five eggs, one and one-half cups thin cream, 
three-eighths cup Tarragon vinegar. Cook until custard, 
adding vinegar last, and taking great care that it does not 
boil. Remove from fire and add one tablespoon granulated 
gelatine which ha,s been dissolved in three-eighths cup 
cold water. Stir fish into this and then turn into mold — 
one large, or individual ones which have been wet in cold 
water, and let stand on ice over night. Turn onto bed of 
lettuce and serve with dressing. (Tuna may be used with 
the salmon, or alone.) 

r)ressing: Two cups cream, whipped stiff, two table- 
spoons Tarragon vinegar, three-quarters teaspoon salt, one- 
quarter teaspoon paprika, two cucumbers cut in dice added 
the last thing. All ingredients should be folded carefully 
into the whipped cream. 

Miss Elizabeth E. Churchi 



30 FISH AND SHELLFISH 

SALMON LOAF 

No. 1 

Two teaspoons sugar, two teaspoons salt, one table- 
spoon flour, one teaspoon mustard, paprika, yolks of four 
eggs, two tablespoons melted butter, one cup thin cream, 
one-half cup vinegar, one tablespoon gelatine soaked in two 
tablespoons cold water. Proceed as for salad dressing, cook- 
ing in double boiler. When done, add one can salmon 
drained and flaked, and put in mold to harden. Slice cold 
and serve with cucumber sauce. 

Cucumber Sauce: Whip one cup of cream stiff; add 
salt, paprika, two tablespoons vinegar slowly, and one-half 
cucumber which has been chopped and drained. 

Mrs. Lewis B. Sinclair. 

SALMON LOAF 

No. 2 

One cup salmon, picked up, three-quarters cup cracker 
crumbs, one egg, one tablespoon Worcestershire sauce, 
about one tablespoon butter, pepper and salt. Mix well in 
a loaf, put in a buttered dish, and steam one-half to three- 
quarters of an hour. Serve with a cream sauce poured over 
the loaf. 

Mrs. D. C. Prescott. 

SALMON PUFFS 

One pound can salmon, one tablespoon flour, one 
tablespoon butter, one cup milk. Melt butter, add flour and 
milk and cook until well blended. Take from stove, add 
salmon picked in small pieces and three well beaten eggs. 
Butter muffin tins and bake in pan of water three-quar- 
ters of an hour. 

Mrs. James W. Buell. 



FISH AND SHELLFISH 31 

SALMON TURBOT 

One can salmon, six large crackers, rolled fine. Mix one 
tablespoon butter, one tablespoon flour, one pint milk, salt 
and pepper, boil and pour over fish and crackers. Bake 
twenty minutes. For four persons. 

Mrs. J. Henry Truman. 

SCALLOPED SHRIMPS 

Two tablespoons melted butter, two tablespoons flour, 
season to taste with salt, pepper and celery salt; add to 
this two cups warm water, one pint celery chopped flne, 
two small cans or one large can minced shrimps. Cook all 
together in double boiler until tender. One pint bread or 
cracker crumbs soaked in melted butter. Put crumbs in 
bottom of twelve ramekins, then fish, and crumbs on top. 
Bake in oven twenty or thirty minutes. 

Mrs. Harvey Grace. 

BAKED WHITEFISH. 

Have fish boned. Grease pan well, and lay fish inside 
up, after washing and drying. Sprinkle cracker crumbs 
over it, then pour the juice of a lemon. Half a teaspoon salt, 
pepper and paprika. Bake half an hour. 

Miss Allie F. Armstrong. 



MEATS AND POULTRY 



BACON AND SWEET POTATOES 

Boil, peel and cut in quarters lengthwise large potatoes. 
Skewer with toothpicks around each piece, a strip of bacon. 
Put in dish, add little water, cover dish and bake three- 
quarters of an hour. 

Miss Elizabeth E. Church. 

CURRY OF BEEF 

Two pounds round steak cut into pieces, one-quarter cup 
butter, one and one-half tablespoons curry powder, two and 
one-quarter cups stock or Avater, three-quarters cup onions, 
chopped, one cup onions sliced thin, one and one-half tea- 
spoons salt. Melt butter, add sliced onions, brown and re- 
move. Add to butter in pan curry, minced onions, salt, 
meat and stock. Stew slowly one and one-half hours, then 
add sliced onions, cook five minutes longer. Serve \Wth rice. 

Mrs. William G. Cook. 

BEEF LOAF 

Two pounds round steak, one quarter pound salt pork 
chopped. Two eggs, one cup bread or cracker crumbs, ova 
and one-half cups milk. Bake slowly two hours. 

Mrs. William O. Cook. 



34 MEATS AND POULTRY 

STEAMED BEEF LOAF 

One pound round steak ground twice, one-quarter 
pound boiled ham, two eggs beaten, one-half cup bread 
crumbs, three tablespoons milk, salt and pepper. Steam 
three hours covered with oiled paper. 

Mrs. Frank W. Werner. 

MEXICAN BEEF LOAF 

Put meat through the meat chopper and at same time a 
small onion and medium sized green pepper with seeds 
taken out. There may be a pint. Moisten half the quan- 
tity of bread crumbs with milk or water. Season meat well 
with salt, add bread. If meat is not quite moist add more 
water or milk. Put in a casserole and bake.' It is good to 
put some butter on top of meat, or canned or sliced toma- 
toes. Bake about forty minutes. Medium heat. 

Mrs. Louis J. Hotchkiss. 

CASSEROLE DINNER 

Place in buttered casserole layer of round steak cut in 
pieces, season Avith salt, pepper, and a sifting of flour. On 
this put a layer of sliced onions which have been parboiled a 
few minutes. Salt, pepper, flour. Next a layer of tomatoes. 
Salt, pepper, flour. For top use potatoes cut in quarters. 
Salt, pepper and flour. Fill dish with water and bake 
slowly two or three hours. 

Mrs. William G. Cook. 

CHICKEN CASSEROLE 

Joint the chicken as for fricassee. Have ready, in a 
deep frying pan, dripping or butter. Slice a medium sized 



MEATS AND POULTRY 35 

onion, and cut two small carrots into cubes. Brown them 
slightly in the fat and turn with the fat into the casserole. 
Mince sweet herbs — parsley, thyme and celery — and add to 
the rest. Now lay in the jointed chicken, sprinkle with two 
tablespoons chopped fat pork, and cover with strained 
soup stock. ( If you have no soup stock on hand, buy a can 
of the brand of soup that costs 10 cents, heat, strain and 
use.) Fit the cover on the casserole and cook for one hour 
in a steady oven. Lift the cover then, and stir into the 
gravy a tablespoon tomato ketchup and a teaspoon kitchen 
bouquet. Lift the joints that the seasoning may sink to the 
bottom. Cover and cook steadily — never fast — for another 
hour. Pour off the gravy, thicken with browned flour, boil 
up and return to the casserole. Let all stand five minutes 
and send to table. Mushrooms added make it better. 

Miss Elizabeth E. Church. 

CHICKEN PIE 

Two even cups flour, three even teaspoons baking pow- 
der, one heaping tablespoon lard or butter, one large cup 
milk. Stir with a spoon, and cover the following: cook a 
large, fat hen until you can remove the bones, season with 
butter, salt and pepper, make a thickened gravy, have 
plenty of it. Cook four eggs. Put chicken in large pan 
with gravy, slice the eggs over the top, spread dough over 
all and bake from fifteen to twenty minutes. 

Mrs. Martin Madson. 

CHOP SUEY 

No. 1 

One pound pork from shoulder, one pound veal from 
leg. Have butcher cut in three-quarter to one inch squares. 
Two cups celery cut in inch lengths, two cups onions cut 
in inch chunks, one tablespoon New Orleans molasses, 



36 MEATS AND POULTRY 

one teaspoon salt, two tablespoons flour. Put the meat in 
a kettle (no grease) and brown. Add all the other in- 
gredients (don't mix flour with water) and enough water 
so you can just see it. Simmer for two hours and serve with 
boiled rice. Mushrooms may be added. 

Mrs. J. M. Coen. 

CHOP SUEY 

No. 2 

Two pounds round steak, one-quarter pound pork, one 
cup celery, one cup onions, two tablespoons dark mola;sses, 
pepper and salt to taste. Fry meat in butter very slowly 
for forty minutes ; then put in celery, onions and molasses, 
and let fry ten minutes more. Put on this two tablespoons 
flour and mix thoroughly; almost cover with water and 
cook ten minutes more. Sei^ve with rice. 

Mrs. Harvey Grace. 

DUMPLINGS FOR POT PIE 

One egg well beaten, one-half cup very cold water, a 
pinch of salt, one heaping cup flour, one heaping teaspoon 
baking powder. Drop into pot pie a tablespoonful at a 
time, steam twelve minutes. 

Mrs. Martin Madson. 

EASY DUMPLINGS 

Two cups flour, four teaspoons baking powder, two 
tablespoons shortening, one-half teaspoon salt, milk. Mix as 
for biscuits, and roll in small balls with floured hands. 
Place on top of the meat for twelve minutes. Do not re- 
move the cover while they are cooking. 

Mrs. Alexander McLean. 



MEATS AND POULTRY 37 

NEVER FAILING DUMPLINGS 

Beat one egg in a cup. Fill cup with sweet milk. Stir 
in one pint of flour, one tablespoon melted butter, one pinch 
of salt, and one teaspoon baking powder. Drop from 
spoon on buttered dish or put spoonful in buttered cups 
and steam, tightly covered, one-half hour. 

Mrs. W. p. Dunn. 

FRICATELLI 

One and one-quarter pounds raw fresh pork, salt and 
pepper, two small onions chopped fine, half as much bread 
(soaked soft) as meat, two eggs. Mix well together, make 
into patties and fry. 

Mrs. William G. Cook. 

GOULASCHE 

Put one tablespoon butter in kettle, add large onion, 
chopped fine. Let onion brown. Cut into pieces about 
the size of the palm of the hand one and one-half pounds 
round steak, medium thick. Add to the onion, season with 
salt and paprika, add one cup tomato and two cups hot 
water. Let simmer for nearly three hours. 

Mrs. E. M. Landis. 

BAKED HAM 

Soak over night in cold water, in which put : one heap- 
ing teaspoon soda, one-half cup vinegar, three tablespoons 
sugar. In morning cover with water, add one carrot, cut 
up, one onion, stuck with cloves, one apple, peeled and 
quartered, one teaspoon celery salt, one tablespoon allspice 
and mace, one-half teaspoon pepper, three tablespoons 



38 MEATS AND POULTRY 

vinegar. Bring slowly to boiling point, let simmer for five 
hours for twelve-pound ham. When done, peel off skin, rub 
over thickly with brown sugar, sprinkle with bread crumbs, 
crisp in hot oven for twenty minutes. 

Mrs. E. B. Whitfield. 

HAM BAKED IN SUGAR 

Soak two hours in cold water a slice of ham cut about 
three inches thick. Put in big iron spider or casserole with 
brown sugar pounded well into bottom and one-quarter inch 
thick on top of ham. Cover with water and bake slowly 
three hours, covered. 

Miss Elizabeth E. Church. 

DELICIOUS BAKED HAM 

Have slice of ham cut about three-quarters inch thick. 
Put in hot water and let boil slowly ten minutes. Pour off 
the water and sprinkle with a teaspoon of dry mustard 
and a tablespoon browTi sugar. Bake forty minutes in a 
rather hot oven. Use any leftover for creamed ham or 
ham pattie. 

Mrs. Louis J. Hotchkiss. 

HAM WITH POTATOES AND ONIONS 

Fit into a deep granite basin a slice of ham two inches 
thick, cover with alternate layers of thinly sliced potatoes 
and onions, preferably the Spanish onions and generously 
used, though not as many as potatoes. Cover vnth milk, 
add little pepper and bake, covered, very slowly, at least 
two and one-half hours. 

Miss Elizabeth E. Chiurch. 



MEATS AND POULTRY 39 

HAMBURG STEAK 

One pound round steak, three tablespoons chopped 
parsley, one-quarter cup freshly grated horseradish, one 
tablespoon lemon juice, one-half cup cracker crumbs, salt 
and pepper to taste. Make in small cakes and brown in 
butter. 

Mrs. Martin Madson. 



KOENIGSBERGER KLOPS 

One pound veal, without bone, one-half pound fresh 
pork, also without bone, one-half small onion, few sprigs of 
parsley, one egg, bread crumbs, peppQr and salt. Put the 
meat, onion and parsley through food chopper, using me- 
dium knife ; for bread crumbs, use one large slice stale bread 
and put that through the chopper last. Keep this separate 
and soak in as much water as it will absorb. Mix the meat, 
egg, seasonings, etc., in a bowl, add soaked crumbs, 
squeezed dry, and mix thoroughly. Wet the hands in cold 
water, and form into balls about as large as a small apple. 
Have ready a saucepan, with enough boiling water 
slightly salted, to cover the ''klops, " lay them in gently, 
and simmer, uncovered, for an hour. If they are cov- 
ered, they will boil to pieces. Turn a few times in the water, 
that they may cook evenly. Take out of the water, put in a 
warm place, boil up gravy sharply to reduce, and add a 
thickening of one tablespoon flour, stirred to a paste with 
vinegar, and one tablespoon capers. Pour this gravy over 
the balls and serve. 

Mrs. S. D. Snow. 



40 MEATS AND POULTRY 

BAKED LAMB CHOPS AU GRATIN 

Sprinkle salt on chops. Put one thin slice of large 
onion on each chop, cover each with grated cheese and put 
one tablespoon sour cream on each. Add a little pepper. 
Set in pan with one-half cup water in bottom. Bake one 
hour slowly. Cover pan. 

Mrs. Henry A. Obermann. 

MEAT BALLS, PORK 

One pound from neck or shoulder, chopped. Soak two 
slices bread in milk, add to meat with one well beaten egg, 
salt, pepper. If you like, a little celery salt, onion salt, or 
grated lemon peel. Mix lightl}^ and drop by spoonsful in 
hot bacon drippings. Cook rather slowly until well done, 
cover when about half done. 

Miss Elizabeth E. Church. 
MEAT LOAF, BEEF OR VEAL 

No. 1 

Two pounds meat, ground, two eggs beaten, one-quarter 
pound sausage, one cup milk, a little butter, one scant cup 
cracker crumbs, large teaspoon salt, some pepper, one- 
quarter, scant, teaspoon cloves. Mix lightly and put care- 
fully in loaf tin, not packing down, as that makes it too 
solid and heavy. Four or five hard boiled eggs, laid in 
lengthwise when the meat is half in the tin, are an addition. 
Place pan in a dish of boiling water, and bake one and one- 
half hours. Rathei* narrow loaf makes more attractive 
slices. Good hot or cold. Tomato dressing may be added 
when serving. 

Miss Elizabeth E. Church. 



MEATS AND POULTRY 41 

MEAT LOAF 

No. 2 

Two pounds round steak, one pound fresh pork, small 
can pimentoes, one small nutmeg, grated, one egg, three 
Uneeda biscuits, one large cup stewed tomatoes. Put meat 
and pimentoes through food chopper, then season well with 
salt and pepper and a dash of cayenne. Add tomatoes and 
egg. Mix thoroughly and strew crumbs of four Uneeda 
biscuits on molding board and fonii into loaf. Must 
be very moist. Bake in a large loaf pan for three-quarters 
of an hour, basting frequently with butter. 

Mrs. John Sutcliffe. 

BRAISED OX JOINTS 

Two large ox tails (have them cut in pieces at the joints 
with a. knife), one carrot, one onion' one turnip, a table- 
spoon minced parsley, a small bay leaf, large spoonful 
drippings. A closely covered iron pot, or Dutch oven, is 
best for this dish. Heat over fire, put in the drippings. 
Wash ox joints carefully, roll in flour, and lay in the hot 
fat. Cover tightly, and cook over a low fire, turning once 
or twice, for half an hour. Then add two cups boiling 
water, and simmer for four hours. Have ready the carrot 
and turnip cut in cubes, the onion minced. Put these with 
the parsley and bay leaf into the pot, and simmer for an- 
other hour. Season with salt and pepper. When ready to 
serve, if there is not considerable gravy around the meat, 
add more boiling water. Put in a saucepan one tablespoon 
drippings or lard, when melted add one tablespoon flour,, 
allow to brown. Pour over this some of the boiling gravy, 
boil up, and add to the ox joints. Serve with small pota- 
toes browned in the oven, or in deep fat. 

Mrs. S. D. Snow. 



42 MEATS AND POULTRY 

BAKED PORK CHOPS 

Heat oven first. Put chops, which are cut thick, double 
rib, in pan. Salt, no pepper. Bake slowly one hour and 
turn frequently. 

, Miss Allie F. Armstrong. 

SPAGHETTI 

One package Red Cross spaghetti. Boil in salted water 
thirty minutes. One can tomatoes, one onion cut small, one 
tablespoon Worcestershire sauce, one-half cup butter, three- 
fourths pound chopped raw beef, salt to taste. Cook all to- 
gether three-quarters of aji hour. Drain spaghetti, add to 
sauce. Place on platter to serve, sprinkle one-half pound 
grated American cheese on top, put in oven or on broiler 
one minute to melt. This will serve twelve people and is 
equally good warmed up a second time. 

Mrs. Lewis B. Sinclair. 

VEAIi BIRDS 

Veal steak, cut in strips two inches wide, four or five 
inches long, lay each strip on a. strip of bacon, sprinkle with 
a little sage, roll and tie up. Brown all over in butter or 
bacon fat. Make a dressing of one quart milk, two table- 
spoons butter, one and one-half or two tablespoons flour, 
flavor with little nutmeg, cayenne, chopped parsley, grated 
lemon peel, salt. Pour into dish of browned veal, and 
simmer slowly two hours. 

Miss Elizabeth E. Church. 

VEAL AND HAM LOAF 

Three and one-half pounds veal, one-half pound ham, 
cook together. Chop and add two eggs, one cup bread 



MEATS AND POULTRY 45 

crumbs, one teaspoon onion juice, salt and pepper, enough 
liquor to moisten. Put in pan and bake one-half hour. 
Baste with butter. 

Mrs. E. B. Whitfield. 

JELLIED VEAL LOAF 

Two pounds veal, two pounds beef, boil till tender. Sea- 
son with salt, pepper and mustard. One tablespoon gela- 
tine, dissolved in little of the liquor, juice of one lemon. 
Put in mold with layers of hard boiled eggs. 

Mrs. E. B. Whitfifld. 

VEAL LOAF 

One pound fresh veal, one-half pound salt pork, 
chopped. Two well beaten eggs, bread crumbs to make a 
right consistency, one-half cup cream or milk, chopped 
parsley, one cut up onion, red pepper, one level teaspoon 
salt. Bake in deep pan for one-half hour. Lay a bay leaf 
or a slice of bacon on top. Drain out the bacon grease 
when found necessary. 

Miss Allie F. Armstrong. 

VEAL PATTIES 

One pound raw veal, chopped. One cup fine cra.cker 
crumbs, one beaten egg, salt and pepper. Mix well, moisten 
with milk to form flat cakes and fry in butter or salt 
pork. 

Mrs. J. Henry Truman. 

VEAL WITH MUSHROOMS 

Have a steak from the ham cut two inches thick. Pound 
into it one-half cup flour. Salt and pepper generously and 



44 MEATS AND POULTRY 

brown in bacon fat, cover with plenty of water, place cover 
on dish and simmer slowly two hours, turning occasionally. 
When done add mushrooms, more flour if necssary for 
gravy. Drain liquor from canned mushrooms. 

Miss Elizabeth E. Church. 



VEGETABLES AND MEATLESS DISHES 



FRIED APPLES 

Pare, cut in half, roll in flour and fry brown, then add 
a small cup of sugar, one cup Sherry, a few raisins, cur- 
rants and a little cinnamon. Cover and simmer down. Stick 
a blanched almond in each piece of apple and serve with 
meat. 

Mrs. J. B. Meyer. 

FRENCH ARTICHOKES 

Wash well, cut in half, take out the little thistle-like 
part near the bottom after they have been boiled thirty to 
forty minutes, according to size. Serve with melted butter, 
white sauce, or mayonnaise. 

Mrs. L. H. Peirce. 

FRIED BANANAS 

One tablespoon butter, melted. Wlien hot add three 
bananas cut in half, lengthwise. Bro^vn on both sides, add 
one tablespoon lemon juice, cover and steam for ten 
minutes. If for a dessert, add one tablespoon sugar and 
one tablespoon orange juice. 

Mrs. L. H. Peirce. 

TO SCALLOP BANANAS 

Cut in one-quarter inch slices, butter a pudding dish 
well, put in a layer of bananas, a thin layer of fine bread 



VEGETABLES AND MEATLESS DISHES 47 

crumbs, sprinkle with sugar, add pieces of butter, a little 
lemon or orange juice, repeat. Bake thirty minutes. 

Mrs. L. H. Peirce. 

BAKED BEANS 

No. 1 

Soak over night one pound navy beans and one tea- 
spoon baking soda. In the morning boil about ten minutes 
in the same water, which will be green after boiling. Skim 
well, turn off the water, and replace with cold water, wash- 
ing beans well. Drain. Into a beanpot or earthenware 
baking dish put one small onion, then some of the beans 
and a little salt and pepper, and some slices of salt pork 
(one-half pound will be required). Continue until beans 
and pork are used, but no more onion. Take two table- 
spoons molasses or dark brown sugar, and one teaspoon 
mustard ; dissolve in cup of hot water, pour over beans 
and fill dish with hot water to the top. Place in oven, cov- 
ered, and bake two and one-half or three hours. About one- 
half hour before done take cover off to allow extra moisture 
to evaporate. Add water as required. If oven is very hot, 
place pan of water under beans. If wanted for dinner can 
be prepared in the morning and set aside until ready to 
bake. 

Mrs. E. M. Landis. 

BAKED BEANS 

No. 2 

Three pints white navy beans, one pound salt pork, 
scored and rather lean, one large teaspoon dry mustard, 
mixed with one large tablespoon brown sugar. Soak beans 
in cold water over night. Early in the morning parboil in 
fresh water till they begin to soften. Before removing from 
fire, drop in a pinch or two of baking soda. Change the 



48 VEGETABLES AND MEATLESS DISHES 

beans to a baking dish, add the mustard and sugar mix- 
ture, place pork in the center. Pour water in which beans 
have been boiling over the whole and bake slowly eight or 
ten hours. Keep the beans moist. 

Miss Allie F. Armstrong. 

BAKED BEANS 

No. 3 

One quart navy beans, three-quarters pound salt pork, 
one whole onion, one teaspoon mustard, three tablespoons 
molasses.. Wash, soak beans over night, in the morning 
drain. Place onion in bottom of kettle or beanpot, cover 
with water, add molasses, mustard and salt pork. Boil 
one-half or three-quarters of an hour before putting in 
oven. Bake six or eight hours, adding water a little at a 
time when necessary, and salt if necessary. One spoonful 
of molasses and two of sugar can be used if preferred. 

Mrs. C. A. Goodwin. 

BEETS IN JELLY 

Boil small beets (or large ones may be sliced), until 
done. Peel the skins off and place beets in a mold. 

To make the jelly : Five tablespoons sugar, three table- 
spoons arrowroot, one-half cup vinegar, one-quarter cup 
boiling water. Cook about five minutes or until clear. 
Pour this jelly around the beets and let cool. When taken 
from the mold the beets show through a crimson jelly. This 
also looks nice just put in a glass dish that may go on 
the table. 

Mrs. Harry Olson. 

BRUSSELS SPROUTS AND CHESTNUTS 

One box Brussels sprouts, three-quarters pound large 
Italian chestnuts. Peel the shells from the chestnuts, and 



VEGETABLES AND MEATLESS DISHES 49 

put into boiling water, boil for ten minutes. Take from the 
fire, allow to cool until they can be handled, and peel off the 
brown skin, taking care to keep them as nearly whole as 
possible. Prepare the sprouts, put in slightly salted boil- 
ing water, and boil for ten minutes. Add the chestnuts, and 
boil five or ten minutes more, not too hard. Eemove from 
fire, drain, and season with butter, pepper and salt. These 
make a delicious salad when cold, served with mayonnaise 
dressing. 

Mrs. Willett H. Cornv^tell. 

SAVOY CABBAGE. 

Cut in small pieces, removing the thick stems. Put on 
in boiling w^ater, boil slowly one hour, adding beef broth 
to replace the water evaporated. Butter the size of a 
large egg, salt, pepper and a little nutmeg and the juice 
of a lemon, all to be added about ten miiiutes before taking 
the cabbage from the stove. Do not drain any of the 
liquid into the sink. The most valuable parts of veg- 
etables are held in solution in the liquid. 

Mrs. L. H. Peirce. 

CABBAGE AND CELERY 

Half and half, chopped fine, use as little water as pos- 
sible so that none will be thrown in the sink. Cook in the 
oven to avoid odors through the house. Season with but- 
ter, pepper and salt. Cook forty-five to fifty minutes. 

Mrs. L. H. Peirce. 

CORN ON COB 

Ha]f milk and half water, add sugar in the propor- 
tion of one teaspoon to a quart of liquid. Bring to a boil, 
put in corn, cover tightly, and boil for ten minutes. 

Mrs. S. D. Snow. 



50 VEGETABLES AND MEATLESS DISHES 

CORN FRITTERS 

Grate one-half dozen ears corn, mix with three eggs, 
yolks and whites beaten separately. Drop by spoonsful on 
hot griddle. 

Mrs. William G. Cook. 

BAKED EGGPLANT 

Slice eggplant, pare off rind, cut up in small pieces. 
Cook in boiling water ten or fifteen minutes (till tender), 
drain. Put two tablespoons butter in saucepan, heat. 
Add a finely cut up onion, cook till tender (do not 
brown). Then add drained eggplant ajid cook two or 
three minutes. Turn into a casserole and cover with but- 
tered bread crumbs. Bake in hot oven fifteen minutes or 
Xiiore. Serve in the baking dish. 

Mrs. Louis J. Hotchkiss. 

KOHL RABI 

Buy when the leaves are fresh, cut leaves into small 
pieces, slice the kohl rabi as thin as possible, put leaves 
and slices together into a stewing pan, use as little water 
as possible. Cook one hour, add salt, pepper and butter 
when nearly ready to remove from the fire. When the 
leaves are too yellow, the vegetable is likely to be woody. 

Mrs. L. H. Peirce. 

NUT LOAF 

One pint stale bread crumbs, thoroughly dried in oven, 
but not colored, one teaspoon minced parsley, one teaspoon 
sage, or any preferred seasoning, one cup finely chopped 
celery, one-half cup finely chopped sour apple, one cup 



VEGETABLES AND MEATLESS DISHES 51 

finely chopped nut meats, one and one-half cups milk, 
two eggs thoroughly stirred into milk. Fry in two table- 
spoons butter, one large onion, finely minced. Stir all 
well together, form into a long mound in a baking tin and 
baste with a little hot water and butter. Bake one hour. 
Serve with brown sauce, oyster sauce, or nut sauce 

Nut sauce : Melt two tablespoons butter in a frying 
pan, fry in it till golden brown one small onion, next add 
two tablespoons flour, brown this also; then pour in 
slowly one and one-half cups milk, season with salt, pepper 
and lemon juice, and just before serving stir in two 
heaping tablespoons finely chopped nuts. Do not pour 
over the loaf, but serve separately. 

Miss Josephine Van Meenen. 

FRENCH FRIED ONIONS 

Fry in hot fat, same as potatoes. Slice around the 
whole onion, about one eighth inch thick. Dredge well in 
flour, drop in hot fat, lay on folded towel and salt after 
frying till crisp. Serve with steak. 

Mrs. Charles J. Tonk. 

POTATO PANCAKE 

Grate several large potatoes, drain, season with salt. 
Add three eggs, yolks and whites beaten separately. Fry. 

Mrs. Louis Wittbold. 

CORN PUDDING 

One cup corn cut from cob, or canned corn, one cup 
milk, one beaten egg, salt and pepper. Bake same as a cus- 
tard twenty minutes, and serve as a vegetable. 

Mrs. D. C. Prescott. 



52 VEGETABLES AND MEATLESS DISHES 

GREEN CORN PUDDING 

One dozen ears com, one pint milk, two eggs, salt and 
pepper, two teaspoons sugar, two tablespoons flour. Bake 
one hour in quick oven. 

Mrs. William G. Cook. 

SPINACH PUDDING 

One pound of spinach leaves chopped very fine, mix 
thoroughly with the inside of a small loaf of stale bread, 
that has been squeezed out of water, add three well-beaten 
eggs, one-third cup melted butter, one onion size of an 
egg, minced very fine, one-quarter cup of finely chopped 
celery, salt and a little pepper. Tie in a cloth, drop in a 
kettle of boiling water. Cook one hour. Serve with meat 
gravy. 

Mrs. Charles J. Tonk. 

SWISS CHARD 

Cut the mid-rib of Swiss chard in small pieces. Stew un- 
til tender in small quantity of water, slightly salted. Cook 
the green part separately ; it will take much less time than 
the rib. Serve together on the same dish, with a cream 
sauce. If any is left, use for salad. 

Mrs. E. T. Cooke. 

VEGETABLE MARROW 

Chop half an onion very small, put in a saucepan with 
a piece of butter; when it begins to color put in the veg- 
etable marrow, cut in slices, add pepper, salt and grated 
nutmeg, moisten with stock, and stew till done, adding 
some finely minced parsley just before serving. 

Mrs. L. H. Peirce. 



VEGETABLES AND MEATLESS DISHES 53 

RICE ASPIC 

Boil one-half large cup rice until tender. Ma]je cream 
sauce with one tablespoon butter, flour added to heated 
butter, and enough milk to make sauce quite thin. Add the 
rice, two eggs well beaten, reserving some of the beaten egg 
to pour over the top of mixture after it ha3 been put into a 
baking dish, cover over with grated cheese, and bake for 
about thirty minutes. Chopped green pepper may be added. 

Mrs. Herbert Waldemar Snow. 

CHEESE RICE 

One cup rice cooked in salted water, rinse with cold 
w^ater. Put in baking dish with alternate layers of grated 
cheese, butter, salt and pepper. Nearly cover with milk to 
which has been added one beaten egg. Bake one-half hour. 

Mrs. E. B. Whitfield. 

RICE AND CHEESE 

One teacup rice to four cups hot water. Boil rapidly for 
twenty minutes. On bottom of buttered pudding dish put 
layer of bread crumbs, then a thick layer of rice and grated 
cheese, another laj^er of rice and cheese. Finish with bread 
crumbs on top. Pour over all a cold mixture of one egg, one 
cup of milk, two tablespoons, melted butter, one tablespoon 
salt, one-quarter teaspoon dry mustard. Bake twenty 
minutes in a quick oven. This is delicious as a luncheon 
dish, or as a substitute for potatoes with meat. 

Mrs. John Sutcliffe. 

RICE CROQUETTES 

One and one-half cups rice, soaked in water over night. 
Put in double boiler with one and one-half cups boiling 



54 VEGETABLES AND MEATLESS DISHES 

water, and boil until dry. Add three and three-quarter cups 
milk and boil in same manner. Add three-quarters cup 
cream, six tablespoons chopped pimento, one teaspoon salt 
and three grains cayenne. Cool. 

Cheese sauce: Two cups cheese, three tablespoons but- 
ter, three tablespoons flour, four cups milk, pinch salt. 

Mrs. F. H. Gansbergen. 



RICE 

UNUSUAL 

Mince very fine one large onion, saute in one-quarter cup 
butter. Now add one and one-half cups of unpolished or 
brown rice, and fry until brown. Put in a double boiler 
and cover well with rich soup stock. When tender and 
quite moist add one can of mushrooms and one cup grated 
yellow cheese. 

Mrs. Charles J. Tonk. 

RISOTTO 

Slice a small onion and fry in one tablespoon olive oil 
or butter. When brown add one cup rice, two cups hot 
water or a little more, one cup tomatoes, and a little sugar, 
salt and pepper. Cook about half an hour. When ready to 
serve sprinkle with grated cheese. 

Mrs. J. Henry Truman. 

SPANISH RICE 

No. 1 

One green pepper and one small onion chopped fine. 
Cook ten minutes in one large tablespoon butter, but don't 
let it brown. Take four tomatoes or two cups canned. If 
the former use one-half cup hot water, if the latter, the juice 



VEGETABLES AND MEATLESS DISHES 55 

from the can (one-half cup). Heat tomato, add pinch soda, 
then turn in the pepper and onion. When it begins to boil 
up add a scant cup of well washed rice (not cooked) and a 
little salt. Cook one hour, adding a small amount of boil- 
ing water to keep from burning. Stir almost constantly. 

Mrs. E. M. Landis. 

SPANISH RICE 

No. 2 

* Two cups cooked rice, one quart tomatoes (cooked with 
seasoning and strained) one large onion, one pound chopped 
fresh pork. Bake slowly one hour. 

Mrs. William G. Cook. 

CHEESE SOUFFLE 

No. 1 

Two tablespoons butter, three tablespoons flour, one cup 
scalded milk, one-half teaspoon salt, one-half cup grated 
cheese, yolks of three eggs, whites of three eggs. Melt but- 
ter, add flour, stirring constantly, then add the milk, salt, 
and grated cheese. Cook until creamy, add to this mixture 
the beaten yolks, and let cool. Lastly add the stiffly beaten 
whites. Pour into a buttered baking dish and bake twenty 
minutes in a pan of hot water in medium oven. Serve at 
once. Miss Allie F. Armstrong. 

CHEESE SOUFFLE 

No. 2 

Make white sauce of two teaspoons melted butter, two 
tablespoons flour, three-quarters cup milk, salt and paprika. 
Add three yolks of eggs unbeaten and stir hard. Add one- 
half cup grated American cheese. Fold in three whites of 
eggs beaten very stiff. Put in buttered baking dish, set in 



56 VEGETABLES AND MEATLESS DISHES 

pan of hot water, and bake in very moderate oven forty-five 
minutes. 

Mrs. LEw^s B. Sinclair. 

CHEESE-CORN SOUFFLE 

Make a cream sauce with one cup milk, one tablespoon 
butter, and one tablespoon flour. When cooked, stir in one 
cup grated cheese, one cup canned corn, the beaten yolks of 
three eggs, salt and pepper to taste. Add the whites of the 
eggs beaten very stiff, when partly cool. Bake in a cas- 
serole about half an hour. 

Mrs. L. S. Berry. 

LUNCHEON SPAGHETTI 

One-half pound spaghetti, one tablespoon butter, one 
minced onion, one small green pepper, parboiled and 
minced, one-half cup grated cheese, one-half cup dry bread 
crumbs mixed with two tablespoons melted butter. One can 
Campbell's tomato soup. Cook spaghetti until tender in 
boiling salted water, drain. Fry onion and green pepper 
in butter, then turn in soup unthinned, and let come to a 
boil. Turn in grated cheese; when melted add spaghetti. 
Put in buttered pan, sprinkle bread crumbs over, and bake 
until brown, about twenty-five minutes. 

Mrs. Frank W. Werner. 

WELSH RAREBIT 

One pound American cheese (light color), one-half pint 
of cream, two eggs, one teaspoon dry mustard, one-half tea- 
spoon salt, dash of cayenne pepper. Beat yolks of eggs and 
seasoning together smooth, add gradually the cream, put 
in pan of chafing dish or double boiler, and add cheese cut 



VEGETABLES AND MEATLESS DISHES 57 

in small bits. Stir till this is cooked smooth, then stir in 
whites of eggs and serve at once on crisp dry toast on hot 
plates. 

Mrs. Louis J. Hotchkiss. 



SALADS AND RELISHES 



BANANA DRESSING 

Cream banana by beating with a fork, beat in one table- 
spoon olive oil to each banana. Fine over spina.ch, lettuce, 
endive or cabbage. 

Mrs. E. T. Cooke. 

BOILED DRESSING 

Make white sauce of : Four tablespoons butter, one table- 
spoon flour, one cup milk, yolks of five eggs^ well beaten, one 
teaspoon mustard, one teaspoon salt, two tablespoons sugar, 
one cup vinegar, half hot water. Cook sauce first, 
then pour onto eggs and other ingredients. Will keep for 
weeks. 

Mrs. E. B. Whitfield. 

BOILED SALAD DRESSING 

One egg, one tablespoonful flour, three-quarters cup 
sugar, one-half cup vinegar, one-hajf cup water, one-half 
teaspoon salt. Mix until smooth, then boil, watching care- 
fully to prevent scorching. 

Mrs. Joseph Frank. 

CHRISTIAN SALAD DRESSING 

Separate yolks and whites tw^o eggs, whip yolks very 
stiff, add slowly two tablespoons olive oil while whipping. 
Place on ice. Thoroughly whip whites, then whip in from 



60 SALADS AND RELISHES 

one to one and one-half tablespoons sugar, adding to this 
about one cup whipped cream. ^Place on ice and whip this 
into the yolk mixture just before serving. 

Mrs. E. T. Cooke. 

CREAM SALAD DRESSING 

Mix thoroughly ingredients in order given : One large 
tablespoon salt, two tablespoons sugar, one teaspoon mus- 
tard, one rounded teaspoon flour, yolks of two eggs, two 
and one-half tablespoons melted butter, one bottle of 
cream. Now slowly add one-quarter cup cider vinegar. Stir 
constantly while cooking. 

Mrs. Charles J. Tonk. 

RED FRENCH DRESSING 

One-quarter teaspoon salt, one-half teaspoon mustard, 
one drop or more Tabascoi sauce, one-quarter teaspoon pa- 
prika. Work together till smooth. Two tablespoons sugar 
(powdered or granulated), one tablespoon tomato catsup, 
one tablespoon Worcestershire sauce. Stir till smooth. One- 
half cup olive oil, add a tablespoonf ul at a time, one table- 
spoon vinegar, added as mixture becomes thick, use more 
vinegar if a tart sauce is desired. This is excellent on fruits 
and tomatoes. 

Mrs. Louis J. Hotchkiss. 

FRUIT DRESSING 

No. 1 

Two eggs, three tablespoons melted butter, three table- 
spoons lemon juice, one-half teaspoon salt. Eggs well 
beaten, add gradually, while beating, the other ingredients. 
Cook over hot fire, stirring constantly, until mixture thick- 
ens. Add one cupful heavy cream stiffly beaten, one- 



SALADS AND RELISHES 61 

quarter cup powdered sugar, one-half teaspoon each celery- 
salt and vanilla, one-quarter teaspoon paprika and three 
drops onion juice. Chill. 

Miss Allie F. Armstrong. 

DRESSING FOR FRUIT SALADS 

No. 2 

Two eggs, butter size of a walnut, one-third cup sugar, 
one-half teaspoon dry mustard dissolved in a teaspoon cider 
vinegar, juice of one lemon, juice of one large orange. Mix 
sugar and eggs well, add other ingredients, boil in double 
boiler until thick. When cold, and ready to serve, thin with 
whipped cream. 

Mrs. Charles J. Tonk. 

DRESSING FOR FRUIT SALADS 

No. 3 

Two tablespoons vinegar, one tablespoon butter. Heat. 
Two tablespoons sugar, one-half teaspoon dry mustard, one- 
half teaspoon salt, two egg yolks, beaten. Pour hot vinegar 
slowly into yolks and other ingredients, cook slowly until 
thick. When cold thin with cream. 

Mrs. L. L. Gregory. 

MAYONNAISE 

No. 1 

It is not necessary to have ingredients very cold. They 
should be cool, but must all be of the same temperature. The 
same rule applies in keeping it. Mayonnaise will keep well 
without separating if the bowl is closely covered, and kept 
cool, without change of temperature. It will then keep per- 
fectly two weeks or longer, and can be used as a base for 
many sauces and dressings. Yolk of one egg, one pint of 
oil, vinegar to thin, one teaspoon each salt and dry mustard, 
sprinkle of cayenne. Put dry yolk in a bowl, beat with egg 



62 SALADS AND RELISHES 

beater, add oil a drop at a time at first, thin with vinegar as 
necessary ; beat in seasonings toward the end. 

Mrs. Samuel D. Snow. 

MAYONNAISE 

No. 2 

Put in a cold bowl one-quarter teaspoon salt, same 
amount of paprika and dry mustard, one dash red pepper. 
Add the ice cold yolks of two hard boiled eggs, rubbed 
through a sieve, and two raw yolks. Blend all together. 
Now slowly add one and one-half cups of oil, stirring con- 
stantly, last drop in one teaspoon onion juice, one table- 
spoon lemon juice, one teaspoon Tarragon vinegar, one 
tablespoon cider vinegar. All ingredients must be ice-cold. 

Mrs. Charles J. Toxk. 

MAYONNAISE DRESSING 

No. 3 

Three eggs, or yolks of six, one teaspoon salt, two table- 
spoons sugar, one-quarter teaspoon mustard, one-half cup 
vinegar, large tablespoon butter. Beat eggs and mix other 
materials with them. Boil until thick, beat until smooth 
while on stove. Beat again. Put in glass jar in cool place, 
and it will keep indefinitely. When ready to serve, add 
whipped cream, sweet or sour. 

Miss Allie F. Armstrong. 

MRS. OGREN'S SALAD DRESSING 

Two tablespoons vinegar, yolks of two eggs, one table- 
spoon butter, one-half teaspoon mustard, one-half teaspoon 
salt, one tablespoon sugar. Set the pan over hot water 
until thick. After it is cold add one cup of whipped 
cream. 

Eva Ogren. 



SALADS AND RELISHES 63 

SALAD DRESSING 

No. 1 

One teaspoon flour, one teaspoon salt, two teaspoons 
mustard, four teaspoons sugar, yolks of three eggs, one-half 
cup vinegar, two-thirds cup crea.m. Mix flour, salt, mus- 
tard and sugar with enough hot water to make a smooth 
paste, add unbeaten yolks of eggs. Beat well together. Add 
vinegar and sweet or sour crea.m. Cook in double boiler un- 
til thick. Thin for use with cream. 

Miss Van Meenen. 

SALAD DRESSING 

No. 2 

Three eggs, well beaten, one-quarter teaspoon mustard, 
five tablespoons milk, five tablespoons vinegar, butter size of 
an egg, one-half cup sugar. Mix in the following order: 
mustard, sugar, egg, butter, milk, vinegar. Add vinegar 
very slowly. Bring to a boil and strain. 

Miss Van Meenen. 

SALAD DRESSING 

No. 3 

Two eggs, beaten, one pijich salt, one tablespoon sugar, 
three tablespoons vinegar, one-half teaspoon dry mustard, 
dissolved in part of vinegar. Stir all together, then add 
small bottle of cream, sweet or sour. Cook in double boiler. 

Miss Van Meenen. 

SALAD DRESSING 

No. 4 

One-half cup oil mayonnaise, one-half cup whipped 
cream, one-quarter cup chili sauce; mince very fine one- 
half green pepper, one-half teaspoon capers, one-half 
medium sized dill pickle, and dark red pepper. 

Mrs. Charles J. Tonk. 



64 SALADS AND RELISHES 

SOUR CREAM DRESSING 

One cup thick sour cream, one tablespoon powdered 
sugar, one-half teaspoon salt. Whip with egg beater. Pow- 
der with paprika. 

Mrs. S. D. Snow. 

THOUSAND ISLAND SALAD DRESSING 

Equal parts oil mayonnaise and chili sauce, add chopped 
hard boiled eggs and chopped olives. 

Mrs. S. D. Snow. 

WHIPPED CREAM 

Thick sweet cream, w^hipped until very stiff, slightly 
sweetened, makes a delicious dressing for salads and fruits. 

Mrs. E. T. Cooke. 

BANANA SALAD 

Slice bananas lengthwise and lay the two halves on a 
garnished plate. Press nut meats into each half of banana, 
and pour mayonnaise over. Sprinkle a few nut meats or 
flaked peanuts on top. 

Mrs. E. T. Cooke. 

STUFFED CELERY 

Take young, tender celery hearts, and, cut in three or 
five-inch lengths. Fill cavity with a paste made from grated 
American cheese moistened with rich cream. 

Mrs. E. T. Cooke. 



SALADS AND RELISHES 65 

CHEESE BALLS, TO SERVE WITH SALAD 

One Blue Label cheese, soften with cream, season with 
salt and paprika to taste. Cut fine eight or ten stuffed 
olives, and eight or ten English walnut meats, a.dd to cheese. 
Roll in balls size of marbles. Serve with salad. 

Mrs. Louis J. Hotchkiss. 

CHEESE BALLS FOR SAJDAD 

Use equal parts of Blue Label cheese and Roquefort, sea- 
son highly with a little boiled salad dressing, red pepper, 
and chives. Mold in balls, roll in chopped pecans. 

Mrs. Charles J. Tonk. 

CUCUMBER AND PINEAPPLE SALAD 

Cucumber cut in cubes, with equal portions of canned 
pineapple cut in cubes. Arrange in individual molds. Dis- 
solve one package of Knox gelatine in juice from canned 
pineapple, add a little water if necessary, strain, cool and 
pour over cubes. Serve with whipped cream mayonnaise, 
sweetened. 

Mrs. Dean S. Conger. 

STUFFED CUCUMBERS 

Peel a large cucumber and cut in two-inch lengths. Re- 
move seeds, leaving a hollow through center. Fill cavity 
with a little chopped celery, sliced onion, and one or two 
ripe olives. Serve with mayonnaise dressing. 

Mrs. E. T. Cooke. 

DELICIOUS SALAD 

Make gelatine foundation according to Knox gelatine 
recipe for Perfection Salad. When partially cooled, pour 



66 SALADS AND RELISHES 

a layer in sheet pan or other large shallow mold, set aside to 
harden. On this lay asparagus and thinly sliced stuffed 
olives. When set, add another layer of gelatine, and when 
cold another layer of aspai'agus and olives. Cut in oblong 
sections, place on lettuce, and serve with rich mayonnaise. 

Mrs. Lewis B. Sinclair. 

FRUIT SALAD 

One can pineapple, six bananas, six oranges, one pound 
white grapes, three apples. Dressing: Mix one-half tea- 
spoon mustard, pinch of salt, one-third cup sugar, with 
juice of one lemon. Mix with the fruit. Whip two bottles 
of cream, and place over all just before serving. 

Mrs. E. T. Cooke. 

FRENCH FRUIT SALAD 

Thinly slice two oranges, add equal amount sliced pine- 
apple and three tablespoons chopped almonds. Serve with 
mayonnaise, fruit juice, or whipped cream. 

Mrs. E. T. Cooke. 

FRUIT AND CHEESE SALAD 

Equal parts American cheese, nuts, dates and figs. Chop 
and mix with lemon juice, form into balls, put on lettuce 
leaves, cover with mayonnaise. 

Mrs. E. T. Cooke. 

ORANGE AND BERMUDA ONION SALAD 

Alternate slices of orange, onion, and orange on a lettuce 
leaf. Mayonnaise dressing or fruit dressing. 

Miss Allte F. Armstrong. 



SALADS AND RELISHES 67 

PERFECTION- SALAD 

No. 1 

One-half box Knox sparkling gelatine, one-half cup cold 
water, one-half cup mild vinegar, one pint boiling water, 
one teaspoon salt, one cup finely shredded cabbage, juice of 
one lemon, one-half cup sugar, two cups celery cut in small 
pieces, one-quarter can sweet red peppers (pimentoes) cut 
fine. Soak the gelatine in cold water five minutes, add vin- 
egar, lemon juice, boiling water, sugar and salt. Strain, 
and when beginning to set add remaining ingredients. Turn 
in mold and chill. Serve on lettuce leaves with mayonnaise 
dressing. 

Mrs. Louis J. Hotchkiss. 



PERFECTION SALAD 

No. 2 

Shredded cabbage, celery, pimentoes, served on sliced 
pineapple. Mayonnaise dressing. 

Miss Allie F. Armstrong. 



POTATO SALAD 

Six or eight small cold boiled potatoes, sliced, one tea- 
spoon finely chopped onion, two hard boiled eggs, one-half 
cucumber, sliced. Dressing: One egg, well beaten, two 
tablespoons sugar, one tablespoon flour, one teaspoon dry 
mustard, three-quarters cup vinegar, butter size of a wal- 
nut, pepper and salt to taste. Boil in double boiler till 
thick, cool, and add three-quarters cup sweet or sour cream. 
Mix gently with the potatoes, onion and cucumber, and gar- 
nish with the hard boiled eggs. 

Mrs. S. D. Snow. 



68 SALADS AND RELISHES 

GERMAN POTATO SALAD 

Scant one-half cup vinegar, one-half cup water, one tea- 
spoon drippings, one teaspoon butter, one tablespoon sugar, 
salt and pepper to taste, flour pa^te to thicken. When cool 
add yolk of one egg. Pour over sliced potatoes, little 
minced onion. 

Mrs. Frank W. Werner. 



BEET RELISH 

One cup chopped cooked beets, three tablespoons bot- 
tled horseradish, two tablespoons lemon juice or vinegar, 
two teaspoons sugar, one teaspoon salt, one cup chopped 
cabbage. 

Mrs. B. F. Bullard. 



CABBAGE RELISH 

One small head of cabbage, one large white onion, one 
tablespoon grated horseradish, one tablespoon mustard 
seed, one-half tablespoon celery seed, one and one-half cups 
vinegar. Put the cabbage and onion through the food 
chopper, sprinkle well with salt, and cover with cold water. 
Allow to stand over night. In the morning squeeze dry (it 
should be quite sajt), add the horseradish, the vinegar, and 
the mustard and celery seed, which should have been al- 
lowed to stand for two hours in boiling water, then drained. 
Mix well, and if too acid from the vinegar, add a little 
sugar. In twenty-four hours it will be ready, and will keep 
for several weeks covered, in a cool place. 

Mrs. S. D. Snow. 



SALADS AND RELISHES 69 

RUSSIAN SALAD 

Lettuce, head or leaf, cut. One green pepper, one cu- 
cumber, two or three tomatoes, chives (or young onions). 

Dressing : To an ordinary French dressing add as much 
tomato catsup as you use oil — as much Worcestershire 
sauce as vinegar. 

Mrs. William G. Cook. 

SALAD 

A large head of celery, one-quarter of a very small cab- 
bage, two ripe tomatoes, all chopped together very fine. 
Salt to taste, and place in colander to drain, Serve on let- 
tuce leaf ; dress with boiled dressing. Very good. 

Mrs. E. T. Cooke. 

TOMATO JELLY 

Simmer until tender one can tomatoes and rub through 
a sieve. Allow one envelope (one-half box) plain gelatine 
to one pint of tomato. Season tomato highly with salt and 
celery salt. Heat very hot and add gelatine. Pour in mold 
and set aside to congeaj. 

Mrs. Herbert Waldemar Snow. 

TOMATO AND PINEAPPLE SALAD 

Whole tomato, skinned and sliced down to represent a 
flower, fill center with canned pineapple cut in cubes. Cover 
this center with mayonnaise mixed with whipped cream. 

Mrs. Dean S. Conger. 



70 SALADS AND RELISHES 

SAUCE TARTARE 
( Cold, for fried fish, tongue, or broiled chicken, very fine.) 
One teaspoon mustard, one-half saltspoon pepper, one 
teaspoon powdered sugar, one saltspoon salt, five drops 
onion juice, three tablespoons vinegar, one tablespoon 
chopped olives, one tablespoon chopped capers, one table- 
spoon chopped pickles, one tablespoon chopped parsley, 
yolks two raw eggs, one-half cup oil. Mix in the order given, 
add the yolks and stir well, add the oil slowly, then the 
vinegar and chopped ingredients. This will keep for 
several weeks. 

Mrs. Joseph Frank. 

TOMATO SAUCE 

Eighteen ripe tomatoes, peeled, three onions, two large 
green peppers, one cup vinegar, one-hajf cup brown sugar, 
one heaping teaspoon cinnamon, one tablespoon salt (per- 
haps more if tomatoes are large). Chop peppeirs and 
onions together quite fine. Cut tomatoes in small pieces, as 
if for salad, mix all ingredients together. Do not cook, but 
keep in ice box. It will keep about six weeks. 

Mrs. W. M. Hopkins. 



SANDWICHES AND SANDWICH 
FILLINGS 



DEVILED OLIVES 

One small bottle of olives chopped very fine, four table- 
spoons salad dressing, two tablespoons rolled cracker 
crumbs, mix well together. Let stand one hour, then spread 
between thin layers of bread. This will make twenty-five 
sandwiches. 

Mrs. Martin Madson. 

PEPPER AND NUT SANDWICHES 

Spread a number of slices of bread, cut thin and with- 
out crust, with butter, and an equal number ^vith the fol- 
lowing mixture: Two finely chopped green peppers, and 
one-quarter pound pecans; add a little salt and bind to- 
gether with mayonnaise. Place leaf lettuce on buttered 
slices, and the mixture on lettuce. 

Mrs. E. M. Landis. 

SANDWICH FILLINGS 

Materials for all sandwiches must be of the best, and 
seasoning can be a little higher than if the filling were 
served separately. Sandwiches can be kept a few hours by 
wrapping first in waxed paper, then in a damp cloth. Keep 
in a cool place. 

Cucumber and sardine sandwiches: Remove skin and 
take out bones of sardines, rub to a paste, season lightly 
with celery salt, and moisten very slightly with mayon- 
naise. Cut crust from rye bread, spread with butter which 



SANDWICHES AND SANDWICH FILLING 73 

ha^ been rubbed to a cream and seasoned very lightly with 
celery salt, pepper and a little curry powder; cover this 
with the sardine paste, and lay on top some thin, crisp 
rounds of sliced cucumber. For open sandwiches, the cu- 
cumber can be chopped fine, drained dry, and a. thin layer 
placed on top. This is an English filling. 

Lemon cream filling: Beat to a. cream one tablespoon 
butter and two tablespoons brown sugar, flavor with lemon 
juice and a little grated nutmeg. Spread on thinly sliced 
brown bread. 

Stuffed rolls: Cut off the tops, scoop out the inside, 
and fill the cavity mth creamed meat, fish or fowl, or mince 
any of these \^dth mayonnaise. Creamed, chopped oysters, 
seasoned with celery or onion salt, make a good filling. 

Fresh lady fingers separated and spread with cake frost- 
ing, jelly, or a cream filling made by rubbing to a paste one 
tablespoon butter, two tablespoons powdered sugar, and 
chopped nuts or candied fruit. Cake sliced and made into 
sandwiches with these fillings is easy to pack. 

All leftovers of salads, scrambled eggs, cheese, vege- 
tables and meat can be used for sandwich fillings. 

Fancy butter for sandwiches : Beat one-quarter pound 
butter to a cream, mix in one-half cup stiffly beaten cream, 
season lightly with mustard, salt, and a dash of cayenne. 
This Avill keep two weeks in a cool place. Butter for sand- 
wiches is always better if beaten to a cream. 

Mrs. S. D. Snow. 

SANDWICH FILLINGS 

1. Cottage cheese and chopped dates. 

2. Equal parts macerated dates and peanut butter. 

3. Equal parts chopped nuts and chopped olives. 

4. Cottage cheese and chopped nuts moistened with 



cream. 



Mrs. E. T. Cooke. 



BREADS 

BAKING POWDER BISCUITS 

Melt butter size of a smajl egg, stir in one level table- 
spoon flour, add one-quarter cup milk, one pinch salt, and 
last one teaspoon baking powder sifted with one cup flour. 
Handle very little, put a small bit of butter on top of each 
biscuit. Bake in brisk oven. 

Mrs. Charles J. Tonk. 

BAKING POWDER BISCUIT 

One quart flour, one teaspoon salt, four teaspoons Rum- 
ford baking powder, one tablespoon lard. Milk to make a 
stiff dough. Roll out or dip by spoonfuls into pan. Bake 
in quick oven. 

Miss Van Meenen. 

BRAN BREAD 

Two cups bran, two cups cold water, cook for twenty 
minutes, cool, and then add : One yeast cake, dissolved in 
one-half cup water, one tablespoon lard, two tablespoons 
molasses, pinch of salt, white flour enough to knead. Very 
good. 

Mrs. E. B. Whitfield. 

BAKED BROWN BREAD 

No. 1 

A little salt, one third cup molasses, one third cup white 
syrup or two-thirds cup of any molasses, not too dark. Fill 
cup with sour milk, stir in level teaspoon soda; one cup 
sweet milk, one and one-half cups graham flour, one cup 
wheat flour, two teaspoons baking powder. Just before 
putting in oven, stir in a well-beaten egg. Bake a full hour 
in a very slow oven. 

Mrs. Louis J. Hotchkiss. 



76 BREAD 



BREAD (FOUR LOAVES) 

One pint potato water, one pint scalded milk, one-half 
cup sugar, two teaspoons salt, one tablespoon butter, one 
tablespoon lard, three quarts flour, measured before sifting, 
one yeast cake, dissolved in one-half cup tepid water. 

Put potato water, milk, sugar, salt, lard and butter in 
bread mixer. When cool add yeast cake which has been 
dissolved and the flour which has been sifted. Turn mixer 
three minutes or till well blended. Cover and set away to 
rise. (I do this at bed-time.) When well risen turn mixer 
till it forms a soft ball and can be lifted out with the turner. 
Divide on floured board into four equal loaves, put in 
greased pans and when risen bake fifty minutes in rather 
moderate oven. 

If preferable one-fourth may be made into Parker House 
rolls. For rolls roll dough into sheet one-half inch thick, 
cut with round cutter, place melted butter on one-half, fold 
over, and put in pan to rise. Bake twenty-five minutes in 
rather quick oven. 

For cinnamon rolls, roll one-fourth of dough into sheet, 
sprinkle with melted butter, cinnamon and raisins, roll up, 
cut in one inch sections, place cut side up in pan to rise. 
Bake twenty-five minutes. 

Note : This only applies to Gold Medal flour, and Uni- 
versal bread mixer number four, and I can guarantee 
satisfactory results. 

Mrs. Lewis B. Sinclair. 



9: KlASrVKT 



NEVER 

SOLD IN 

BULK 



OUR PACKAGE 
^ KEEPS IT 
CLEAN 



BLUE 

VALLEY 

BUTTER 



CHURNED 

FRESH 

EVERY 

DAY 



is good 

butter 



THERE 
IS NO 
SUBSTITUTE 
FOR BUTTER 



BREAD 77 

BROWN BREAD 

Xo. 2 

One-half cup molasses, one-quarter cup brown sugar, one 
tablespoon melted butter, one and one-half teaspoons 
soda, dissolved in one and one-half cups lukewarm water, 
one cup floured raisins, one cup white corn meal, two cups 
graham flour, small teaspoon salt. Steam in baking powder 
tins for one and one-half hours. It rises about twice the 
batter. Bro^^^l in oven five minutes. 

Mrs. S. D. Snow. 

BROWN BREAD 

No. 3 

This makes one loaf. One-half cup New Orleans molas- 
ses, one cup thick sour milk, one level teaspoon soda dis- 
solved in a little cold water and stirred well into milk and 
molasses, one-half cup white flour, one-half teaspoon salt, 
graham flour to make a thick batter that will just drop from 
spoon. One-eighth cup raisins may be added. Bake one 
hour in slow oven. 

Miss Margaret Dawes. 

STEAMED BROWN BREAD 

No. 4 

One-half cup sugar, one-half cup molasses, one-half tea- 
spoon salt, two cups sour milk, one heaping teaspoon soda 
in warm water, one and one-half cups raisins, graham flour 
to make a stiff dough, about two and three-quarters cups 
Steam two hours in a pudding tin, or in baking powder tins. 

Miss Van Meenen. 

BROWTsF BREAD 

No. 5 

Two cups sour milk, two cups flour, one and three-quar- 
ters cups corn meal, three-quarters cup molasses, one-half 



78 BREAD 

cup sugar, one egg, one teaspoon salt, two teaspoons soda. 
Steam two hours and bake one-half hour. 

Mrs. Harry Olson. 

BROWN BREAD 

No. 6 

One-quarter cup sugar, one-quarter cup molasses, two 
cups sour milk, one cup white flour, two cups graham flour, 
one cup raisins or chopped nuts, ane-half teaspoon salt, two 
teaspoons soda. Bake forty-five minutes. Will make two 
smajl loaves. 

Mrs. E. B. Whitfield. 

BROWN BREAD 

No. 7 

One cup wheat flour, one cup graham flour, one-quarter 
cup molasses with one teaspoon soda dissolved in it, a little 
salt, one pint milk. Bake three-quarters of an hour. 

Mrs. C. H. Murray. 

CORN BREAD 

No. 1 

One-half cup corn meal, one and one-quarter cups flour 
mixed with corn meal, one cup sweet milk, two eggs well 
beaten, one-quarter cup butter and one-half cup sugar 
creamed together, one teaspoon' baking powder mixed with 
flour and meaj, one-half teaspoon salt. Bake one-half hour. 

Mrs. Harvey Grace. 

CORN BREAD 

No. 2 

One and one-half cups of water or milk, one cup flour, 
three teaspoons baking powder, one tablespoon melted but- 
ter, two tablespoons sugar, two eggs, corn meal enough to 
make a thin dough, or rather less than one:half cupful. 

Mrs. C. H. Murray. 



BREAD 79 

GLUTEN BREAD 

Into a pint fresh milk stir one pint boiling water in 
which has been dissolved one teaspoon each salt and butter. 
When warm stir in enough gluten flour for a dough. Knead 
one-quarter hour and set to rise again. When light bake in 
a steady oven one hour. Cover with brown paper first half 
hour. 

Mrs. E. T. Cooke. 

GRAHAM BREAD 

One cup graham flour, one cup white flour, one-half cup 
sugar, one cup chopped dates, one cup sour milk, one-half 
teaspoon soda, four teaspoons baking powder. 

Mrs. L. L. Gregory. 

NUT BREAD 

No. 1 

Three cups flour, four teaspoons Rumford baking pow- 
der, one teaspoon salt, three-quarters cup sugar, one cup 
walnuts, chopped fine, one and one-half cups milk into 
which two eggs are beaten. Mix dry ingredients together, 
then with the milk and eggs. Put into bread molds and let 
stand twenty-five minutes. Bake in moderate oven. 

Mrs. Joseph Frank. 

NUT BREAD 

No. 2 

Two cups flour, one-third cup sugar, one-half cup nut 
meats, two teaspoons baking powder, three-quarters cup 
milk, one egg well beaten. Let stand one-half hour. Bake 
three-quarters hour in slow oven. 

Mrs. E. T. Cooke. 



80 BREAD 

OATMEAL BREAD 

No. 1 

Pour two cups boiling water over one cup rolled oats, 
add one tablespoon lard, one-half cup brown sugar. When 
lukewarm, add one-half teaspoon salt, one-half cake com- 
pressed yeast dissolved in warm water, one cup walnut 
meats — or half nuts and half raisins — and add as much 
white flour as can be stirred in with a spoon. Let rise and 
when light put into pans with little handling. Do not 
knead. Let rise again, and bake. -This makes two loaves. 

Mrs. B. F. Bullard. 

OATMEAL BREAD 

No. 2 

Pour two cups of boiling water on one cup oatmeal, one 
tablespoon lard or butter, one-half cup sugar) pinch of salt. 
Let it cool. Add one-half cake compressed yeast, one cup 
raisins, one-half cup walnut meats. Stir in flour as stiff as 
you can, put in pan and raise once. Bake slowly. 

Mrs. W. M. Thomas. 

OATMEAL BREAD 

No. 3 

One cup oatmeal, one-hajf cup molasses, one teaspoon 
salt. Over this pour two cups boiling water at dinner time. 
At bed-time add one-quarter yeast cake dissolved and four 
cups flour. In the morning stir down and add one-half cup 
flour, no more, let rise again, and bake. 

Mrs. J. Henry Truman. 

OATMEAL BREAD 

No. 4 

Two cups oatmeal, pour over two cups boiling water and 
let stand a while. Five cups wheat flour, one-half cup 



BREAD 81 

molasses, one teaspoon salt, two tablespoons lard, one com- 
pressed yeast cake dissolved in one-half cup water. 

Miss Margaret Dawes. 

RYE BREAD 

One cup rye meal, one cup white flour, one-half cup 
sugar, one cup sour milk, one-half teaspoon soda, four tea- 
spoons baking powder, one and one-half teaspoons caraway 
seed. Mix all dry ingredients and add milk. Let rise fif- 
teen minutes and bake. 

Mrs. L. L. Gregory. 

VIRGINIA SPOON BREAD 

Three tablespoons sifted corn meal, three eggs, small tea- 
spoon soda, one pint sour milk. Beat eggs and add half the 
milk and the meal, then the rest of the milk with the soda, 
a pinch salt and one tablespoon melted butter. Bake in 
buttered dish in which it is to be served, twenty minutes, 
and eat at once. 

Miss Elizabeth E. Church. 

WHOLE WHEAT BREAD 

Three cups w^ater (or half milk), one tablespoon salt, 
three tablespoons sugar, one heaping tablespoon lard, one 
cake yeast, three cups whole wheat, six cups white flour. 
Mix well and let rise. When light shape into loaves with 
little handling. Raise and bake well. 

Mrs. B. F. Bullard. 

SPANISH BUNS 

One cup sugar, one cup flour, one-half cup sweet milk, 
one-half cup butter, two eggs, one small teaspoon baking 



82 BREAD 

powder, one teaspoon cinnamon and cloves, mixed. Bake 
in a shallow pan. 

Mrs. Martin Madson. 

COFFEE CAKE 

No. 1 

One tablespoon butter, one-half cup sugar, creamed. One 
egg, one-half cup milk, one and one-half cups flour, one 
teaspoon baking powder. Spread in large pan about one 
inch thick. Spread top with melted butter and sprinkle 
thick with sugar and cinnamon. A few almonds cut fine 
over bottom of pan add much to the flavor. 

Mrs. B. F. Bullard. 

COFFEE CAKE 

No. 2 

This is cheap and easy to make. One cup sugar, one 
tablespoon butter, one egg, two cups flour, two teaspoons 
baking powder in second cup flour, one cup sweet milk. 
Sift sugar and cinnamon over cake, add dabs of butter on 
top, sprinkle with water, and bake at once in a slow oven 
fifteen minutes. Use long flat pan. 

Mrs. S. F. Perrigo. 

FIFTEEN MINUTE COFFEE CAKE 

No. 3 

Two tablespoons butter, three-quarters cup sugar, two 
eggs, one-half cup milk, one and one-half cups flour, two 
level teaspoons baking powder, pinch of salt. Melt butter 
and spread on top with sugar and cinnamon, bake fifteen 
minutes. 

Mrs. Adam Schneider. 



BREAD 83 

COFFEE CAKE 

No. 4 

One tablespoon lard, one-half cup sugar, one egg, one 
teaspoon soda., one cup sour milk, three cups flour. 

Mrs. Edward H. Turner. 

GRAHAM CRACKERS 

One quart graham flour, one pint white flour, one cup 
shortening, one teaspoon salt and water to work stiff. Roll 
out, cut, prick "with a fork and bake. One cup chopped 
raisins or dates may be added. 

Mrs. E. T. Cooke. 

BERRY MUFFINS 

One-quarter cup butter or lard, two-thirds cup sugar, 
one egg well beaten, two and two-thirds cups flour, reserving 
one-third cup, two and one-half teaspoons baking powder, 
one cup milk, one cup blueberries, added last, having been 
mixed with the reserved flour. 

Mrs. J. L. Whitman. 

BLUEBERRY MUFFINS 

One large tablespoon butter, two-thirds cup (nearly) 
sugar, one cup rich sour milk, two cups flour, one and one- 
ha.lf cups berries sprinkled over with one-half cup more of 
flour, two eggs, one teaspoon soda, little salt. Bake about 
twenty minutes and eat warm. (One cup sweet milk and 
two teaspoons- baking powder can be used instead of the 
sour milk and soda.) 

Miss Elizabeth E. Church. 



84 BREAD 

BRAN MUFFINS 

One tablespoon lard or butter, one egg, one-half cup 
sugar, two cups soui* milk, one and one-half teaspoons bak- 
ing soda, one-half cup boiling water (if sweet niilk is used, 
substitute three teaspoons baking powder), two cups Pills- 
bury 's bran flour, two cups white floui*, one and one-half 
tea^oons salt. Beat butter, egg and sugar until creamy. 
Add soda to sour milk after dissolving in the boiling water. 
Add the drj^ ingredients gradually and mix well. Put in 
hot buttered tins and bake in hot oven twenty minutes. 

Miss Allie F. Armstrong. 

CORN MUFFINS 

No. 1 

One cup corn meal, one cup flour, one tablespoon sugar, 
one-half teaspoon salt, one teaspoon Rumford baking pow- 
der, one tablespoon butter, one cup milk, one egg. Sift corn 
mea.1, flour, sugar, salt and baking powder together, rub in 
shortening, add beaten egg and milk. Half fill hot, well 
greased muffin tins, bake in hot oven twenty minutes. 

J^Irs. Bradley Buell. 

CORN MUFFINS 

No. 2 

Sift together with two teaspoons baking powder, one cup 
yellow corn meal, two cups flour. Cream two-thirds cup 
sugar with one-half cup butter, three well-beaten eggs, one 
cup sweet milk, one level teaspoon salt. Beat well together, 
then add the flour mixture. Bake in buttered muffin tins. 

Mrs. Charles J. Tonk. 

MY **HOME'' CORN MUFFINS 

One and one-quarter cups yellow cormneal, three-quart- 
ens cup flour, one egg, one-half tablespoon butter or lard. 



BREAD 85 

one-half teaspoon sugar, pinch salt, almost two heaping tea- 
spoons baking powder, milk and water enough to mix like 
com bread. Bake twenty or twentj^-five minutes. 

JMrs. E. M. Landis. 

MUFFINS FOR FOUR 

Sift two cups of flour with two level teaspoons baking 
powder, one-half level teaspoon salt and two tablespoons 
sugar. Melt and add two tablespoons butter, level; two 
beaten eggs and one cup sweet milk. Mix and make twelve 
muffins. Bake one-half hour. 

Mrs. J. M. Coen. 

ONE EGG MUFFINS 

One and one-hajf tablespoons sugar, three tablespoons 
melted butter, one egg. Cream all together. One cup milk, 
two cups flour, three teaspoons baking powder. Bake in 
muffin tins in moderate oven. 

Mrs. E. B. Whitfield. 

MUFFINS 

Two eggs, one cup milk, two rounded tablespoons butter, 
one teaspoon sugar, one and one-half cups flour, two tea- 
spoons baking powder. Separate the eggs and beat. Bake 
in a quick oven. 

Mrs. Martin Madson. 

PROMOTION FOOD 

To ever}^ quart of coarsely ground flour, or half and half 
bolted flour and middling, take one-half pint finely ground 
raw peanuts, add two heaping teaspoons sugar and a small 



86 BREAD 

teaspoon salt. Knead into a light consistency and bake in 
the form of sticks or fiat cakes in a fairly hot oven. Pro- 
motes intestinal activity. 

Mrs. E. T. Cooke. 

POTATO ROLLS 

Four potatoes, medium size, three eggs, one-half cup 
melted butter, one teaspoon salt, one-half teaspoon sugar, 
three cups flour, one yeast cake. Boil potatoes and put 
through a ricer ; beat eggs, add butter, salt, sugar, potatoes. 
Break yeast into small pieces, work into flour, add to first 
mixture, and work until smooth. Cut dough into rounds, 
spread with butter, fold and let rise till light. 

Mrs. Walter Fox. 

QUICK ROLLS 

One tablespoon lard, one tablespoon butter, one teaspoon 
sajt, two tablespoons sugar, one cup boiling water, one cup 
milk ; when lukewarm add one yeast cake, three cups flour. 
Let stand fifteen minutes, then add flour enough to make 
stiff. Let stand until double in bulk. Make into rolls. 

Mrs. E. B. Whitfield. 

SCONES 

One cup flour, one-half teaspoon soda, one level teaspoon 
cream of tartar. Sift above together, work in three table- 
spoons sugar, two of butter. Add one-half cup of floured 
raisins, break in one egg, stir in gently one tablespoon sour 
cream or milk, spread in pan, bake in moderate oven. 

Mrs. E. B. Whitfield. 



BREAD 87 

WAFFLES 

Two cups flour, two teaspoons baking powder, one cup 
milk, salt, two eggs. Mix dry ingredients, after sifting, add 
the beaten yolks, and lastly fold in the stiffly beaten whites. 
Have waffle iron ''piping hot," and grease just before 
using. 

Miss Allie F. Armstrong. 



CAKES 



ALMOND TORTE 

One pound powdered sugar. First, beat yolks of ten 
eggs with Dover beater until stiff. To this add half of the 
sugar, a pinch of cinnamon and allspice. Second, beat the 
whites of ten eggs very stiff on large platter, add rest of 
sugar and fold in the yolks. Last, fold in one-half pound 
ground almonds. Bake one hour in slow oven. Let hang 
in pan until used. Best made day before using. 

Mrs. Louis Wittbold. 

APPLE CAKE 

One cup flour, one teaspoon baking powder, two table- 
spoons lard, one-half cup sugar, pinch salt, break one egg 
in cup and fill cup with milk. Line pan with dough and 
fill full with sliced apples. Sprinkle with sugar and cin- 
namon. 

Mrs. Frank W. Werner. 

DUTCH APPLE CAKE 

One cup flour, one-half teaspoon salt, one teaspoon bak- 
ing powder, one tablespoon sugar, one tablespoon butter, 
one-quarter cup milk, one egg, cinnamon. Mix dry ingre- 
dients together, rub in butter, add milk, and lastly, well 
beaten egg. Put in shallow pan. Cut up two apples in 
slices and cover dough liberally — sticking some of the slices 



90 CAKES 

into the dough.. Sprinkle with cinnamon and brown sugar. 
Moderate oven. Serve hot with sauce. 

Sauce : Lump of butter, one-half cup brown sugar, one- 
half cup flour. Mix with boiling water; flavor. 

Miss Allie F. Armstrong. 

BOSTON MALLOWS 

Eight egg yolks, one and one-half cups pulverized sugar, 
one-half cup butter, three-quarters cup milk, one cup flour, 
one-half cup cornstarch, two teaspoons baking powder. Beat 
long and well before adding flour. Bake in small gem tins 
and frost white. 

Mrs. B. F. Bullard. 

BUTTEKLESS, EGOLESS, MILKLESS CAKE 

Put in saucepan one cup brown sugar, two cups seeded 
raisins (one will do), one cup water, one-third cup lard, 
pinch of salt, one-quarter teaspoon nutmeg, one teaspoon 
cinnamon, one-third teaspoon ground cloves. Boil all to- 
gether three minutes and let cool. When cold, add one tea- 
spoon soda dissolved in hot water. Add two cups sifted 
flour with one-half teaspoon baking powder. Bake in loaf. 
This cake improves with age and costs less than 25 cents. 

Miss Allie F. Armstrong. 

CANADA WAR CAKE 

Two cups brown sugar, two cups hot water, two table- 
spoons lard, one package seedless raisins cut once, one tea- 
spoon salt, one teaspoon cinnamon, one teaspoon cloves. 
Boil all these ingredients five minutes after they begin to 
bubble. When cold, add one teaspoon soda dissolved in 
one teaspoon hot water, three cups flour. Bake in two 



CAKES 91 

loaves in slow oven forty-five minutes. This cake is better 
at the end of a week or longer. 

Mrs. Louis J. Hotchkiss. 

CHOCOLATE CREAM CAKE 

Cream one-fourth cup butter, beat in a half -cup sugar ; 
beat two eggs, beat in one-half cup sugar; then beat the 
eggs and sugar into the butter and sugar. Sift together one 
and three-fourths cups flour and three level teaspoons bak- 
ing powder, add these to the first mixture, alternating with 
two-thirds cup milk. Bake in two round layer cake pans. 
Put together with custard filling, and cover top with choco- 
late frosting. 

Mrs. Fred P. Pool. 

CREAM CAKE 

One cup sugar, one-half cup butter, one-half cup milk, 
one teaspoon baking powder, whites of three eggs, flour to 
make a medium batter. 

Filling: One cup whipped cream, one-half cup pul- 
verized sugar, one-half teaspoon vanilla. Let cake cool, 
split; in two, and add the filling. 

Mrs. W. M. Hopkins. 

CREAM LAYER CAKE 

One cup sugar, three eggs, two tablespoons butter, one- 
half cup water, one and three-quarters cups flour, two tea- 
spoons baking powder. Bake in three, layers. 

Filling: One cup sweet milk, one-half cup, or less, 
sugar, one tablespoon cornstarch, yolks of two eggs or one 
whole egg, pinch salt. Raisins or nuts or both, make a 
pleasing addition to this filling. In place of the milk, fruit 



92 CAKES 

juice, orange, lemon and pineapple, combined or singly, 
may be used. Whipped cream, flavored with pineapple 
juice, on top of cake. 

Miss Elizabeth E. Church. 

CRUMB CAKE 

Two cups flour, one-hajf cup butter and lard together. 
Mix as for pie crust. One cup sour milk, one cup sugar, 
one egg, beaten, two tablespoons molasses, one teaspoon 
soda, two teaspoons cinnamon, one-quarter teaspoon cloves, 
one-quarter teaspoon allspice, one cup raisins. Bake very 
slowly in flat pan. 

Frosting: One cup brown sugar, one-half cup water. 
Boil until it threads. Add nine cut up marshmallows, pour 
over beaten white of one egg. 

Mrs. E. B. Whitfield. 

CUP CAKES 

Put one egg in a cup, fill cup half full with soft butter, 
then fill up the cup with milk. One cup sugar, one and one- 
half cups fiour, scant, one teaspoon baking powder, flavor- 
ing. Bake in muffin tins. 

Mrs. D. C. Prescott. 

CHEAP DELICATE CAKE 

Put large tablespoon butter in cup and melt. Then put 
in the whites of two eggs, and fill cup with sweet milk. 
Pour in bowl, and add one cup Swansdown pastry flour, 
one cup (scant) sugar, and one teaspoon baking powder, 
sifted four or five times. Stir constantly for ten minutes. 
Flavor with any desired flavoring. Bake in square pan, 
frost, and put nuts, walnut or pecan, so cake can be cut 
in sixteen squares. Fine and cheap. 

Mrs. John Sutcliffe. 



CAKES 93 

QUICK DEVIL'S CAKE 

One and one-quarter cups white sugar, one-half cup 
shortening, one egg, one cup sweet milk, two cups flour, one 
level teaspoon baking powder, one teaspoon vanilla, two 
squares chocolate or four rounding tablespoons cocoa, dis- 
solved in a little hot water. Last thing, add three table- 
spoons cold water and beat hard. Ba,ke in square tin. 

Mrs. J. M. Coen. 

DEVIL'S FOOD 

Two cups sugar, three-quarters cup butter, one cup 
buttermilk or rich sour milk, two cups pastry flour, one-half 
teaspoon soda, one teaspoon vanilla, two squares melted 
chocolate, yolks of five eggs, whites of two. In baking at 
first have the oven a, little hotter than for bread, then turn 
gas down some ; must bake slowly. Bake in four or five 
layers. Use devil's food frosting. 

Miss Elizabeth E. Church. 

DEVIL'S FOOD FROSTING 

Make a, boiled frosting, using two heaping teacups, or 
one pound, pulverized sugar, one-half cup water. Stir this 
into whites of three well beaten eggs, then add one-half 
square melted chocolate, one-half cup cocoanut, one tea- 
spoon vanilla, and beat till cool. 

Miss Elizabeth E. Church. 

DROP CAKES 

One cup sugar, one cup nuts, one cup dates, two eggs 
beaten separately, two tablespoons flour, three teaspoons 
baking powder. Drop on buttered tins and bake in moder- 
ate oven. 

Mrs. John R. Hollister. 



94 CAKES 

ECONOMY CAKE 

Beat one egg in a. coffee cup, fill cup with sweet milk. 
Stir together one rounded tablespoon butter and , one cup 
sugar, and the egg and milk, one and three-quarters cups 
flour which has been thoroughly sifted with two rounded 
teaspoons baking powder and a pinch of salt. Flavor to 
suit taste. Bake in two thick layers, using any filling pre- 
ferred. 

Mrs. W. M. Thomas. 

PLAIN FRUIT CAKE 

Cream one cup sugar and one-half cup butter. Beat in 
the yolks of three eggs, then add two-thirds cup milk. Stir 
in one cup chopped raisins which have been mixed with a 
little of the flour, one-half teaspoon cinnamon, one-quarter 
teaspoon cloves. Sift in two heaping teaspoons Rumford 
baking powder with flour enough to make a dough which is 
not very stiff. Bake in a moderate oven. 

Miss Van Meenen. 

UNBAKED FRUIT CAKE 

One-half pound dates chopped fine, one-half pound figs 
chopped fine, one-half pound citron chopped fine, one-half 
pound seedless raisins chopped fine, one-half pound w^alnut 
meats chopped fine. Grind or chop all together. Make into 
a loaf and roll in powdered sugar or flour. Keep in a cool 
place. Ready to cut in twenty-four hours. 

Mrs. E. T. Cooke. 

GOLD CAKE 

One cup white sugar, one-half cup butter, yolks of six 
eggs, two-thirds cup sweet milk, two teacups flour, one tea- 



CAKES 95 

spoon baking powder. Use as a layer or with one cup 
broken nut meats. 

Mrs. C. H. Murray. 

INFALLIBLE LAYER CAKE 

Break two eggs into a cup and fill with sour cream. 
Pour into a bowl and stir well together, adding one-half 
^teaspoon soda dissolved in a little of the cream. Add one 
cup sugar, one and one-half cups flour, and one and one- 
half teaspoons baking powder in flour. Bake in layers in a 
quick oven. Use any desired filling. 

Mrs. John Sutcliffe. 

MRS. OGREN'S LIGHTNING CAKE 

One and one-half cups unsifted flour, one cup sugar, 
two teaspoons baking powder, two eggs broken into cup, fill 
cup with sweet milk and put into mixture, four tablespoons 
melted butter, not hot, one-half teaspoon sajt and any kind 
of flavoring. Beat very hard until light. 

Eva Ogren. 
MARSHMALLOW LAYER CAKE 

Three-quarters cup butter, two cups granulated sugar, 
whites of ten eggs, two pints flour, two teaspoons baking 
.powder, one cup rich milk, one teaspoon vanilla. Rub but- 
ter and sugar to a white cream, add whites of eggs beaten 
three at a time and beat the mixture a little between each 
addition of eggs. Then add flour, sifted with the baking 
powder, milk and vanilla. 

Filling: One and one-half cups sugar, one-half cup 
water, whites of three eggs, one teaspoon vanilla, one-half 
teaspoon citric acid. Boil sugar and water to a thick syrup. 



.96 CAKES 

Beat eggs stiff, and mix in syrup, add vanilla and citric 
acid. Beat until cold. 

Mrs. E. M. Landis. 

MOCHA CAKE 

Yolks of five eggs creamed with one cup confectioner's 
sugar, and one tablespoon butter that has previously been 
creamed; two tablespoons mocha essence, two tablespoons, 
strong coffee (hot), one cup flour, one heaping teaspoon 
baking powder, pinch salt. Last, well beaten whites. Bake 
in layers. Put together with mocha, flavored whipped cream. 

Mrs. Charles J. Tonk. 

NUT CAKE 

Inexpensive and excellent. One cup sugar, one and 
three-quarters cups flour, one cup chopped nuts, three-quar- 
ters cup milk or water, two tablespoons butter, two tea- 
spoons baking powder, two eggs, salt and flavoring, prefer- 
ably almond. 

Miss Elizabeth E. Churchi 

NUT LOAF CAKE 

One-half cup butter, two cups sugar, three eggs, one cup 
of half milk and half water, one cup English walnuts broken 
fine, flour, two teaspoons Rumford baking powder, lemon 
flavor. Bake slowly one and one-quarter to one and one- 
half hours. 

Mrs. Alexander McLean. 

NUT TEA CAKES 

One cup light brown sugar, one-half cup butter, one-half 
cup sweet milk, one egg yolk, whites of two eggs, two cups 



PROTECT THE PURITY 
OF HOME BAKING 



The leavener you use is largely re- 
sponsible for the flavor, texture, 
wholesomeness and appearance of 
your home baking. This is why it 
is of the utmost importance that 
you use 



Rumford 

iHi^THE WHOLESOME HiHM 

Baking Powder 



No housekeeper can use Rumford 
without realizing the saving in 
money and materials. 



Mailed Free— THE NEW RUMFORD RECEIPE BOOK 
Rumford Company, Providence, R, I, 



98 CAKES 

flour, two teaspoons baking powder, one teaspoon vanilla, 
one cup hickory nut meats. Cream butter and sugar, add 
milk and egg whites and yolk well beaten. Stir in the 
flour, baking powder, and nut meats well mixed together 
and drop on well oiled tin one inch and one-half apart. 

Mrs. Frank W. Werner. 

OAT MEAL MACAROONS 

No. 1 

Two-thirds cup butter, two-thirds cup brown sugar, one 
cup rolled oats, one egg, one teaspoon soda, one cup flour. 
Roll very thin and bake in a hot oven. If too dry to roll 
easily, add one tablespoon cream. 

Mrs. B. F. Bullard. 

OAT MEAL MACAROONS 

No. 2 

Two eggs, one cup sugar, two full tablespoons butter, 
melted, one small teaspoon salt, three cups rolled oats, one 
heaping teaspoon baking powder, one teaspoon vanilla. No 
flour. Drop with teaspoon on greased tins about three 
inches apart. Moderate oven. 

Mrs. B. F. Bullard. 

ONE EGG CAKE 

Two cups flour, two teaspoons cream of tartar, one tea- 
spoon soda, one cup sugar, two tablespoons butter, one egg. 
Put the soda in a cup, break the egg in the same cup, fill 
up with sweet milk. Stir well and pour into flour in which 
the cream of tartar has been sifted. Add butter and sugar 
which have been creamed. Beat well and flavor with lemon 
or vanilla. Bake in a moderate oven. 

Miss Van Meenen. 



CAKES 99 

ONE, TWO, THREE, FOUR CAKE 

One cup butter, two cups sugar, three cups flour, four 
eggs, one cup milk, two rounded teaspoons baking powder 
sifted with flour. Cream butter and sugar, add flour and 
milk alternately, beat eggs lightly and add. Bake in loaf. 
This makes a large cake. 

Mrs. W. M. Thomas. 

ORANGE CAKE 

No. 1 

Two cups sugar, three-quarters cup butter, whites of 
three, yolks of five eggs. Grate rind of one large orange, 
add juice and fill cup up with water. Three cups flour, two 
teaspoons baking powder. Frosting, boiled, using two cups 
of sugar, one cup water, whites of tAvo eggs, one tablespoon 
orange pulp. (This makes two sheets or four layers.) 

Mrs. William G. Cook. 

ORANGE CAKE 

No. 2 

Three-quarters cup butter, one cup sugar, two cups 
flour, one-half cup orange juice, yolks of eight eggs, two 
teaspoons baking powder, grated rind of one orange, citron 
cut in thin pieces. Bake in loaf and use white icing. 

Miss Elizabeth E. Church. 

PEACH CAKE 

Peel nine or ten peaches, halve. Cover bottom of long 
shallow cake tin with oiled paper. Place peaches upside 
doAvn on paper and pour over them any rich plain cake 
batter. Bake in moderate oven until cake is done. Cool 
and turn out on platter with peaches on top. Sprinkle 



100 CAKES 

lightly with powdered sugar. Serve with plain cream, 
chilled whipped cream, flavored, or with a cottage pudding 
sauce. 

Miss Margaret Dawes. 

PINK AND WHITE CAKE 

Two cups sugar, three-quarters cup butter, six eggs, 
whites only, one cup cold water, three cups flour, two tea- 
spoons baking powder. Cream butter and one and one- 
quarter cups of sugar. Add flour and cold water alternate- 
ly. Then the beaten whites containing the remainder of 
the sugar. Color half of mixture pink. Bake in two layers, 
put together with white icing. Delicious. 

Mrs. E. B. Whitfield. 

PRINCE OF WALES CAKE 

Butter size of an egg, one and one-quarter cups sugar, 
cream together. Three eggs, save two of the whites for 
frosting. Beat, and add to above: Five tablespoons mo- 
lasses, scant, one teaspoon cinnamon, one teaspoon allspice, 
three-quarters teaspoon cloves, one-hajf teaspoon grated 
nutmeg, one and one-quarter cups sour milk, in which dis- 
solve one and one-half level teaspoons soda, stir well before 
adding to batter. Two and one-quarter level cups flour 
sifted three times after measuring, three-quarters cup rai- 
sins, chopped and dredged with some of the flour, one- 
quarter cup chopped walnuts. Bake in moderate oven 
three-quarters to one hour in square flat pan. When cool 
ice with one cup sugar, one-quarter cup water, boil till it 
threads. Add two egg^ whites well beaten and one-half 
teaspoon lemon extract. 

Mrs. Harry Olson. 



CAKES 101 

RAISED CAKE 

This recipe is at least one hundred and fifty years old. 
Except for the modern yeast cake, it is just as Great Grand- 
mother made it. It is better after a few days. Nine cups 
flour, four cups sugar, three cups butter, one and one-half 
large yeast cakes (one cup home made yeast) , two eggs, one 
pint milk, one teaspoon saleratus, one wineglass brandy, one 
grated nutmeg, enough raisins, currants, chopped citron, 
lemon and orange peel to make three-quarters of a pound. 
Cream butter, add sugar gradually, blend well. Take one- 
half this mixture, add to it one-half the flour, well sifted ; 
heat milk, Avhen lukewarm, dissolve yeast in it, add, and 
beat all well. Set to rise in warm place, well covered for 
seven or eight hours. Then add the remainder of the butter 
and sugar, soda dissolved in a little water, one-quarter tea- 
spoon salt, the eggs, beaten till light, nutmeg, brandy and 
the remainder of the sifted flour, then floured fruit. Grease 
three large bread tins, put one-third of the mixture into 
each, set to rise again in a. warm place, for two or three 
hours, and bake like bread. Very good and a little differ- 
ent. Mrs. S. D. Snow. 

SHORT CAKE DOUGH 

Sift together three times : Two cups flour, one-hajf tea- 
spoon salt, two rounded teaspoons baking powder. Now 
rub in with the hands one-quarter cup butter. Beat one egg 
well, mix with a scant cup sweet milk, and beat into the 
flour. Bake quickly. Let cool before cutting. 

Mrs. Charles J. Tonk. 

SMALL CAKES OR LOAF CAKE 

One cup granulated sugar, one-half cup butter or lard 
(or mixed), one-half cup milk, one and one-half cups flour, 
two level teaspoons baking powder, two eggs, separate yolks 



102 CAKES 

and whites. Beat butter to a cream, add sugar gradually, 
then the beaten yolks, the flour and the milk alternately, 
and lastly, the stiffly beaten whites. The baking powder is 
sifted with the flour. Cover with powdered sugar or cocoa- 
nut. 

Miss Allie F. Armstrong. 

SNOWFLAKE CAKE 

Whites of four eggs, half cup of butter, one and one- 
half cups sugar, three-quarters cup milk ; two cups pastry 
flour, sifted four times with two and one-half level tea- 
spoons baking powder, one teaspoon vanilla. Cream butter, 
add sugar and beat ; add a little of the flour, then milk and 
flour alternately until all is used. Beat five minutes with 
an up stroke and always in the same direction. Add flavor- 
ing and the stiffly beaten whites, cutting them in lightly. 
Pour into a tube pan that has been greased and floured. 
Bake in moderate oven. Ice. 

Mrs. W. M. Thomas. 

RICH SOUR CREAM CAKE 

Break two eggs into measuring cup, fill up with cream, 
one cup sugar, one and one-half cups flour, one teaspoon 
soda, one teaspoon cream of tartar, salt and flavoring. 
Good for loaf or layers. 

Miss Elizabeth E. Church. 

MRS. OGREN/S SOUR MILK CAKE 

One egg, one cup sugar, butter size of egg, one-half cup 
chopped raisins, one teaspoon cinnamon, one-half teaspoon 
cloves, two cups flour, one-half teaspoon salt, one teaspoon 
soda put in one cup of sour milk or cream. BaJ^e one-half 
hour. 

Eva Ogren. 



CAKES 103 

SOUR MILK CAKE 

No. 1 

One and one-quarter cups sugar, one large tablespoon 
butter, two eggs, one cup sour milk, Avith one-half teaspoon 
soda, and two cups flour with one teaspoon baking powder. 
Bake in a moderate oven. 

Mrs. Joseph Frank. 

SOUR MILK CAKE 

No. 2 

One-qua.rter cup butter, one cup sugar, one cup sour 
milk, two cups flour, one level teaspoon soda, cloves ajid 
cinnamon to taste. Bake slowly forty-five minutes. 

Mrs. L. M. Berry. 

SPICE CAKE WITH FUDGE FROSTING 

Two cups sugar, one-half cup butter and lard, mixed, 
three egg j^olks, dropped in one by one and beaten, one small 
cup sour milk, two and one-half cups flour, one cup raisins, 
plumped in hot water and dried, one teaspoon cinnamon 
and cloves, one teaspoon soda, two tablespoons cocoa. Beat, 
add white of eggs, well beaten. 

Frosting: Two cups brown sugar, one cup milk, piece 
of butter size of egg. Cook until it threads. Let stajid for 
five minutes, and then beat. 

Mrs. E. B. Whitfield. 

CREAM SPICE CAKE 

Two cups brown sugar, one-half cup butter, two tea- 
spoons cinnamon, one-half teaspoon cloves, one cup sour 
cream, one teaspoon soda, two eggs, two cups flour. 

Frosting: One cup powdered sugar. Orange juice 
enough to have it stick together. 

Mrs. F. H. Gansbergen. 



104 CAKES 

SPICE CAKE 

No. 1 

Two cups sugar, two and one-half cups paltry flour, one 
cup sweet milk, three-quarters cup butter, one-half cup 
raisins, one-half cup nuts, cut or chopped, three eggs, one- 
half nutmeg, one-half teaspoon cloves, one teaspoon cin- 
namon, three teaspoons baking powder. Bake in two loaves 
to cut in squares. Moderate oven. 

Miss Elizabeth E. Church. 

SPICE CAKE 

No. 2 

One cup butter, or less, two cups brown sugar, one cup 
buttermilk, three and one-quarter cups flour, three eggs, 
four teaspoons cocoa, one teaspoon cinnamon, one-half tea- 
spoon cloves, one nutmeg, salt, two, teaspoons soda. Bake 
in gem tins. 

Miss Elizabeth E. Church. 

SPICE CAKE 

No. 3 

Two cups brown sugar, four eggs, one-half cup butter, 
one teaspoon soda, one cup thick sour milk, two teaspoons 
cinnamon, two teaspoons nutmeg, one-half teaspoon cloves, 
one cup raisins, two cups flour. 

Mrs. S. F. Perrigo. 

SPICE CAKE 

No. 4 

One cup granulated sugar, butter the size of an egg, one 
egg, one cup sour milk, one teaspoon soda, one teaspoon 
cinnamon, one-half teaspoon each cloves and allspice, one 
and one-half cups flour. 

Mrs. W. M. Thomas. 



CAKES • 105 

SPICE CAKE 

No. 5 

One egg, one-half cup sour milk, one cup sugar, one tea- 
spoon soda, two cups flour, one teaspoon cinnamon, one- 
half cup raisins, one-half cup nuts. 

Mrs. George A. MacCorkle. 

SPONGE CAKE 

No. 1 

This is a nice and inexpensive cake. Served hot with 
sauce, it is a good pudding; cold, it may be cut in thin 
slices and heaped with sweetened whipped cream, flavored 
with vanilla. It is also a good batter to pour over apple, 
peach or plum cake. One and one-half cups flour, two tea- 
spoons Rumford baking powder, one cup sugar, one tea- 
spoon flavoring (may be omitted), two eggs, milk or cream. 
Sift flour, baking powder and sugar together three times, 
adding a. pinch of salt. Break the eggs into a half-pint cup, 
and fill to the brim with milk or cream. Turn this into 
mixing bowl, and beat well, adding graduall.y the sifted dry 
ingredients. Then add flavoring, and beat for five minutes. 
Bake from twenty to forty minutes in a moderate oven. It 
may be baked in an oblong, shallow pan; when done, turn 
it out, spread jelly or jam over it, and roll up for a jellj^ 
roll. Or it will make a good laj^er cake, with jelly, whipped 
cream, finiit, cocoanut, or melted sweet chocolate betw^een 
the layers. 

Mrs. S. D. Snow. 

SPONGE CAKE 

No. 2 

 Five eggs, two scant cups sugar, four tablespoons boiling 
water, two cups sifted flour, two teaspoons baking powder, 
one-half teaspoon lemon extract, if desired — not necessary. 



106 CAKES 

Beat yolks of eggs very light, then add sugar gradually. 
Beat together for about five minutes. Add boiling water 
slowly. Stir in sifted flour and baking powder. Last, the 
beaten whites of eggs folded in. Bake in a moderate oven 
twenty to thirty minutes. 

Mrs. William A. Olson. 

SPONGE CAKE 

No. 3 

Two eggs, scant cup sugar, one-half cup hot water, one 
cup flour, heaping teaspoon baking powder, one-quarter tea- 
spoon salt, one-half teaspoon vanilla. Beat eggs till smooth. 
Sift flour and baking powder together four times. Add 
sugar to eggs, then flour; cream well together, add water 
with flavoring and salt. Bake twenty-five minutes in mod- 
erate oven. 

Mrs. B. H. Clark. 

SPONGE CAKE 

No. 4 

Six eggs, one and one-half cups granulated sugar, one 
cup flour, one tablespoon lemon juice. Beat yolks stiff, add 
sugar. Beat whites separately, add lemon juice, beat until 
it has a cooked appearance; add yolks and sugar slowly, 
then add flour, folding it in. Sift flour and sugar five or 
six times. Bake slowly. 

Mrs. W. M. Thomas. 

SPONGE CAKE 

No. 5 

One ajid one-half cups sugar, one and one-half cups 
flour, four eggs, one-half cup orange juice, one teaspoon 
baking powder, one teaspoon vanilla. Beat yolks with 



CAKES 107 

orange juice until foamy. Add sugar, flour and whites of 
eggs, well beaten. Bake in moderate oven. 

Mrs. E. B. Whitfield. 

SPONGE CAKE 

No. 6 

Two eggs, one cup sugar, one cup flour, one teaspoon 
baking powder sifted with flour, one-third cup hot water, 
one-quarter teaspoon salt, flavoring. Beat eggs lightly, add 
other ingredients in order given. 

Mrs. W. M. Thomas. 

SPONGE CAKE 

No. 7 

Three eggs, beaten separately. One cup sugar, one cup 
flour, one-half cup hot water, one teaspoon baking powder. 
Add whites last. Bake slowly either in a loaf or in gem 
pans. 

Mrs. J. Henry Truman. 

SPONGE DROPS 

Two eggs beaten very light. Beat in a scant cup of 
sugar, and an even cup flour, one heaping teaspoon baking 
powder, scant hajf-cup boiling water, one-half teaspoon 
vanilla. Use wire egg beater in place of spoon. Moderate 
oven. (This baked in two layers makes an excellent cake 
for Washington pie or strawberry short cake.) 

Mrs. William G. Cook. 

SUNSHINE CAKE 

Six eggs, well beaten separately, one and one-quarter 
cups sugar, one cup flour, one-third teaspoon cream tartar, 



108 CAKES 

pinch salt. Beat whites of eggs until foamy, add cream of 
tartar, beat very stiff, add sugar ; put salt in egg yolks, beat, 
add to beaten whites and sugar, fold in flour. Bake forty 
minutes. 

Mrs. Frank W. Werner. 

SAND TARTS • 

One-half pound butter, one pound brown sugar (two 
and three-quarters cups) , three eggs, one pound flour ( four 
cups). Cream butter, add sugar, beaten eggs (leaving out 
the white of one), and lastly, the flour. Roll thin, cut into 
three-inch squares. Brush over Avith the white of egg and 
sprinkle with granulated sugar and cinnamon mixed. Put 
a raisin or half walnut in center of each and bake in a quick 
oven. 

Miss Allie F. Armstrong. 

VANILLA WAFERS 

One cup sugar, two-thirds cup butter, one egg, four table- 
spoons milk, two teaspoons baking powder, two teaspoons 
vanilla, flour to roll. Roll thin. 

Mrs. C. a. Goodwin. 

WASHINGTON PIE 

One egg, one-half cup butter, one cup sweet milk, one 
cup sugar, two cups flour, two teaspoons baking powder. 
Bake in two layers, when done put between them some kind 
of jam. Nice for dessert. 

Mrs. Martin Madson. 

WALNUT CAKE 

One cup sugar, one cup butter, four eggs, beaten sepa- 
rately, one-half cup milk, two cups flour, three teaspoons 



CAKES 109 

baking powder, one cup walnuts, chopped fine. Bake in 
laj^ers in moderate oven. 

Filling: One cup milk or cream, one-half cup sugar, 
two' egg yolks, one teaspoon cornstarch. Mix thoroughly 
and boil until it thickens. Let cool and add vanilla and one 
cup chopped nuts. 

Mrs. Louis Wittbold. 

WHITE CAKE FOR LOAF OE LAYER 

No. 1 

One and one-half cups sugar, one-half cup butter, one 
cup milk, three cups flour, three teaspoons baking powder, 
salt and flavoring, whites of four eggs. To vary this, two 
cups flour and one cup cornstarch is good. Made in three 
layers, with currants in the middle one, raisins and nuts 
added to boiled frosting to put betw^een the layers and 
plain icing on top, is a truly regal cake. 

Miss Elizabeth E. Church. 

WHITE CAKE 

-Xo. 2 

Cream one cup sugar with one-half cup butter, add two- 
thirds cup milk. Sift two heaping teaspoons Rumford 
baking powder in flour enough to make a soft dough. Flavor 
with vanilla. Stir in the beaten whites of three eggs and 
bake in a moderate oven. 

Miss Van Meenen. 

WHITE CAKE 

No. 3 

One-half cup butter, two cups flour, one and one-half 
cups sugar, two teaspoons baking powder, three-quarters 
cup milk, four egg whites beaten stiff. 

Mrs. Lewis B. Sinclair. 



110 CAKES 

WHITE CAKE 

No. 4 

Whites of six eggs, one and one-half cups sugar, one- 
half cup butter, three-quarters cup milk, two cups flour, one 
teaspoon baking powder. 

Mrs. C. H. Murray. 

WHITE CAKE WITH CHOCOLATE FILLING 

Two eggs, beat. One cup sugar, beat. One cup flour, 
beat all together. One teaspoon baking powder, pinch of 
salt. Heat one-half cup milk with two tablespoons butter. 
Pour boiling milk on the mixture. It will become very thin, 
but thickens in cooking. 

Filling: One-half cup brown sugar, four tablespoons 
bitter chocolate, three tablespoons cream, or four of milk. 
Cook just enough to thicken. Very good. 

Mrs. E. B. Whitfield. 

BOSTON COOKIES 

Three-quarters cup butter, one and one-half cups sugar, 
three eggs beaten light, one teaspoon soda dissolved in one- 
quarter cup hot water, three cups flour, one cup chopped 
nuts, one cup chopped raisins, one teaspoon cinnamon. 
Drop on buttered tins by teaspoonsful. Bake in moderate 
oven. 

Mrs. William G. Cook. 

CHOCOLATE COOKIES 

One cup bro^vn sugar, one-half cup melted butter, one 
egg, one-half cup sweet milk, in which one-half teaspoon 
soda is dissolved, two tablespoons melted chocolate, one and 
one-half cups sifted flour, three-quarters cup raisins, three- 



CAKES 111 

quarters cup chopped nuts. Drop on greased tin from 
spoon. 

Mrs. Frank W. Werner. 

FRUIT COOKIES 

No. 1 

Two cups light brown sugar, one cup butter and lard, 
two eggs beaten, two-thirds cup cream or sour milk, one 
teaspoon soda, two teaspoons cinnamon, one-half teaspoon 
cloves, one-half teaspoon nutmeg, two cups raisins, one-half 
cup chopped nuts, pinch of salt, about three and one-half 
cups flour. Mix in order given. Use enough flour to make 
it easy to handle but do not get too stiff. Roll out and cut 
round, sprinkle granulated sugar over top and put a nut 
in the center of each. Do not have oven too hot. Watch 
closely. 

Mrs. W. M. Thomas. 

FRUIT COOKIES 

No. 2 

Beat to a cream one cup sugar, one-half cup butter or 
shortening; add one-half cup sweet milk, one egg well 
beaten, two and one-half cups flour, three level teaspoons 
baking powder. Cut out rounds, moisten edges, and put 
together with the following filling between : Three-quarters 
cup sugar, one cup boiling water, one cup chopped raisins 
or figs, one-half cup nut meats. Press edges together and 
bake. 

Mrs. Frank W. Werner. 

GINGER COOKIES 

One cup each of sugar, butter and New Orleans molas- 
ses ; beat well. Pour over this one-half cup of boiling water 
and add one tablespoon even full of soda. Put on stove to 



112 CAKES 

boil. Cool ; add one teaspoon ginger, flour enough to roll. 
Roll thin and bake in hot oven. 

Mrs. Martin Madson. 

OATMEAL COOKIES 

No. 1 

One cup sugar, one cup butter and lard, two eggs, two 
tablespoons sour or buttermilk mixed with one teaspoon soda, 
one teaspoon cinnamon, one-half teaspoon allspice, one-half 
teaspoon cloves, one-half teaspoon nutmeg, one cup chopped 
raisins, one-half cup chopped English walnuts, two cups 
uncooked rolled oats, two cups flour. Drop on buttered 
tins with teaspoon. This makes about fifty cookies. 

Mrs. Fred P. Pool. 

OATMEAL COOKIES 

No. 2 

One cup sugar, three-quarters cup lard or butter, one 
and one-half cups flour, one and one-half cups oatmeal, one 
cup chopped raisins, two eggs, two teaspoons cinnamon, 
three-quarters teaspoon soda dissolved in hot water. 

Mrs. J. Henry Truman. 

PISTACHIO COOKIES 

One cup granulated sugar, one-half cup butter, yolks 
of two eggs, three tablespoons sour cream, one-fourth tea- 
spoon soda, one cup Sultana raisins, one large teaspoon 
pistachio flavoring, flour enough to make a soft dough. 
Sprinkle with sugar. 

Mrs. Martin Madson. 

SOUR CREAM COOKIES 

One cup sugar, one cup butter, one cup sour cream, 
three eggs beaten, one teaspoon soda, one scant teaspoon 



CAKES 113 

baking powder. Cream sugar and butter, dissolve soda in 
cream; mix together, and add enough flour to make a soft 
dough. Flavor to taste. Roll out rather thick, sprinkle 
granulated sugar over top. Bake in moderate oven. 

Mrs. W. M. Thomas. 

CHOCOLATE CRULLERS 

Two eggs, beaten until creamy, one cup sugar, one table- 
spoon melted butter, one-half teaspoon each of salt and 
cinnamon, one square grated chocolate. Mix the above well, 
and add one cup sweet milk, three cups flour, two tea- 
spoons baking powder. Roll out about one-fourth inch thick, 
cut and cook in smoking hot fat to a golden brown. When 
cool roll in sugar. 

Mrs. B. F. Bullard. 

DOUGHNUTS 

No. 1 

Two eggs, two small cups sugar, one pint milk, one- 
quarter teaspoon salt, three teaspoons baking powder, four 
small cups flour. Make a stiff batter of these ingredients, 
and drop from tablespoon into hot lard. When done 
sprinkle with powdered sugar. 

Mrs. Joseph Frank. 

DOUGHNUTS 

No. 2 

One cup sugar, dissolved in one cup milk. Yolks of four 
eggs well beaten, one-half grated nutmeg, three level tea- 
spoons baking powder, flour enough to make soft dough. 
Economical, because whites of eggs may be used for cake. 



I^ 



RS. E. B. Whitfield. 



114 CAKES 

POTATO FRIED CAKES 

Four heaped tablespoons, or more, of mashed potatoes, 
butter about size of English walnut, one cup granulated 
sugar, one-half cup sweet milk, two eggs, four teaspoons 
baking powder, salt, vanilla and nutmeg, flour to roll very 
soft, sifted two or three times. This makes three dozen. 

Miss Elizabeth E. Church. 

GINGERBREAD 

No. 1 

One cup molasses, one cup sugar, four large spoonsful 
melted shortening, one cup sour milk, one teaspoon soda, in 
warm water, two eggs, not beaten, flour enough to make a 
soft dough, about two and one-half cups, one teaspoon gin- 
ger, two teaspoons cinnamon, and the juice of one lemon. 
Bake one hour in a very slow oven. 

Miss Van Meenen. 

GINGERBREAD 

No. 2 

One cup molasses, one teaspoon soda, one teaspoon gin- 
ger, one tablespoon butter or lard, one-half cup boiling 
water, two cups flour, a little salt. Stir molasses, soda, 
ginger, butter and salt together, then pour on boiling water 
and add flour. Beat well and bake in a shallow pan. 

Mrs. C. a. Goodwin. 

GINGERBREAD 

No. 3 

One-half cup lard, one teaspoon soda, salt. Fill the cup 
with boiling water. One cup molasses, one level teaspoon 
ginger, one heaping teaspoon cinnamon, one and one-half 
cups flour. 

Mrs. J. Henry Truman. 



CAKES 115 

GINGERBREAD 

No. 4 

One-half cup sugar, one-half cup molasses, one-half cup 
lard and butter, one-half cup water, one teaspoon soda, one 
and one-half cups flour, one egg. 

Mrs. Edward H. Turner. 

GINGER DROPS 

One cup each of sugar, molasses, lard and hot water, 
one teaspoon soda, a pinch of salt, ginger to taste, flour to 
make very stiff. Drop in dabs quite far apart in buttered 
tins. Sprinkle with sugar and bake quickly. It may re- 
quire two or three trials to make these just right. 

Mrs. Martin Madson. 

SOFT GINGERBREAD 

No. 1 

To one and one-half cups sifted flour add one level table- 
spoon ginger, one level teaspoon cinnamon, a scant level 
teaspoon soda and a. few grains of salt. Mix well and sift. 
Beat one-fourth cup butter and one-fourth cup light brown 
sugar to a cream, add one egg well beaten and gradually 
one-half cup New Orleans molasses. Add alternately with 
one-half cup thick sour milk to the dry ingredients. Beat to 
a smooth batter, pour onto a well buttered pan and bake 
immediately in a moderate oven. 

Mrs. George Campbell. 

SOFT GINGERBREAD 

No. 2 

One cup brown sugar, one cup molasses, one-half cup 
butter, one cup warm water, one egg, one level teaspoon 
soda, two cups flour, one teaspoon ginger, one teaspoon cin- 



116 CAKES 

namon, one-half teaspoon cloves. Bake in two sheet pans, 
in slow oven one-half hour. 

Mrs. Lewis B. Sinclair. 

SOFT GINGERBREAD 

No. 3 

Butter size of egg, melt, stir into one cup molasses, 
heated. One teaspoon ginger, one-half teaspoon cinnamon. 
Cool, and add two cups flour, one teaspoon soda dissolved 
in one tablespoon hot water. Bake in hot oven. Cheap 
and good. 

Mrs. E. B. Whitfield. 

HERMITS 

No. 1 

One and one-half cups brown sugar, one cup butter, 
three eggs well beaten, two tablespoons molasses, one tea- 
spoon soda, little salt, one teaspoon cinnamon, two and one- 
half cups flour, one cup English walnuts cut up, one cup 
raisins cut up. Drop by teaspoonsful in buttered tins and 
bake ten or fifteen minutes. 

Mrs. D. C. Prescott. 

HERMITS 

No. 2 

Three cups brown sugar, one cup butter, or half drip- 
pings, one cup sour milk, one large teaspoon soda, four 
eggs, two teaspoons cinnamon, two teaspoons cloves, two tea- 
spoons nutmeg, two cups chopped raisins, or part nuts. 
Flour so batter will drop from, spoon, three and one-eighth 
cups. This makes thirty-four cakes. 

Miss Elizabeth E. Church. 



CAKES 117 

CARAMEL FILLING 

One and one-half cups brown sugar, three-fourths cup 
sweet cream, small piece of butter. Boil until thick enough 
to spread on cake. 

Mrs. Martin Madson. 

DELICIOUS CAKE FILLING 

One cup sugar, one-quarter cup water, boil till it 
threads, about six minutes. Allow to cool without stirring, 
and then stir till creamy. One cup fresh cocoanut, the 
grated rind of an orange. Wash the orange well, and only 
grate off the yellow part. Combine with fondant, and 
spread over cake. 

Mrs. S. D. Snow. 

SOUR CREAM FILLING FOR CAKE 

One cup each of sour cream, sugar and chopped nuts. 
Boil until it strings from spoon. Beat until ready for 
cake. 

Mrs. Martin Madson. 

BOILED FROSTING 

Into a double cooker put one cup sugar, four table- 
spoons cold water, whites of two eggs. Beat for ten min- 
utes. Keep boiling while beating. 

Mrs. Willis I. Saunders. 

MILK FROSTING 

Boil one and one-half cups of sugar, one-half cup sweet 
milk, one teaspoon butter twelve minutes, remove from the 



118 CAKES 

stove and add one teaspoon vanilla. Beat until of the 
consistency to spread. 

Mrs. Martin Madson. 

GELATINE ICING 

Cover a tablespoon of gelatine with four of water, soak 
for one-half hour, then dissolve over hot water, strain into 
a bowl. Add a teaspoon of lemon juice and as much pow- 
dered sugaj as will spread over the cake nicely. 

Mrs. Martin Madson. 

MAPLE ICING 

Three cups brown sugar, six tablespoons cream, five 
tablespoons butter. Mix over fire, boil about five minutes 
till small amount dropped in water forms soft ball. Remove 
from fire and stir till it will spread nicely. 

Mrs. E. T. Cooke. 



PUDDINGS AND PASTRY 



BREAD PUDDING 

One pint milk, one-half cup sugar, one cup fine bread 
crumbs, two eggs^ one tablespoon melted butter, nutmeg 
to taste, one-half cup raisins, one-eighth teaspoon soda dis- 
solved in hot water. Soak the bread in the milk, beat the 
yolks separately, then add the soaked bread and beat to- 
gether. Add the sugar, butter, spice, and then the soda. 
Fold in the beaten whites. Bake until the custard will 
raise at the edges with a spoon. 

Mrs. Lester L. Jones. 

CARROT PUDDING 

One and one-half cups flour, one cup sugar, one cup 
chopped suet, one cup raisins, one cup currants, one cup 
grated potato, one cup grated carrots, one teaspoon soda 
in potato. Steam or boil three hours. Pound baking pow- 
der cans are nice. 

Sauce: One cup sugar, one-half cup butter. Put over 
hot water to melt. Add whipped cream just before serving. 

Mrs. Dean S. Conger. 

CHERRY PUDDING 

Two eggs, one cup sweet milk, two teaspoons baking 
powder, one tablespoon melted butter, flour enough to make 
a stiff batter. Stir in fresh or canned cherries. Steam in 
cups or molds one-half hour. Serve with sauce made with 
cherry juice. 

Mrs. W. p. Dunn. 



PUDDINGS AND PASTRY 121 

CHOCOLATE PUDDING 

One pint milk, one-half cup sugar, two tablespoons 
cocoa, one heaping tablespoon cornstarch. Heat milk in 
double boiler. Mix sugar, cocoa, cornstarch well together 
and add to milk. Boil until thickened. One-half cup 
chopped nuts adds much to pudding. 

Mrs. James W. Buell. 

CHOCOLATE LADY FINGER PUDDING 

One cake sweet chocolate, cut up, put in double boiler 
wdth four tablespoons water, three tablespoons sugar, two 
eggs, yolks only, slightly beaten. Stir gently until thick. 
Remove from fire, add whites, beaten until stiff. Line 
bread tin with oiled paper. Split lady fingers, lay in pan 
lengthwise. Put on layer of chocolate, then layer of lady 
fingers, crosswise, then layer of chocolate, then lady fingers. 
Let harden and serve with whipped cream. Delicious. 

Mrs. E.^B. Whitfield. 

COCOA ROLL 

Five eggs, five tablespoons granulated sugar, five tea- 
spoons cocoa, one teaspoon vanilla. Beat yolks until light, 
add sugar and beat again, add cocoa and vanilla. Beat 
whites ten minutes, fold in last, and bake in flat pan, like 
jelly roll. When done roll in napkin until cold. Fill with 
whipped cream, roll. Pour over sauce made of one egg, 
one-half cup sugar, one-half cup grated chocolate. 

Mrs. E. B. Whitfield. 

CORNSTARCH PUDDING 

Dissolve two level tablespoons cornstarch in a little 
milk, taken from a pint (the quantity used for the pud- 



122 PUDDINGS AND PASTRY 

ding) . Stir in the milk one small half -cup of sugar, a pinch 
of salt; let come to a boil in a double boiler. Now stir in 
the dissolved cornstarch and cook, stirring constantly. Re- 
move from fire and add the stiffly beaten whites of three 
eggs. Put in a mold. Make a soft custard of three yolks, 
one-third cup sugar, one pint milk, one-half teaspoon corn- 
starch. Pour over molded pudding when ready to serve. 
Have ice-cold. 

Mrs. Charles J. Tonk. 

DATE PUDDING 

No. 1 

One-half pound dates, one cup walnuts, five Uneeda bis- 
cuits, one cup sugar, one and one-half teaspoons baking 
powder, four eggs. Put through food chopper the dates, 
walnuts and Uneeda biscuits. Mix with this the sugar and 
baking powder. Separate eggs and beat thoroughly. Mix 
and bake in sheet pan thirty to forty minutes in slow oven. 
Serve with whipped cream. 

Mrs. L. S. Berry. 

DATE PUDDING 

No. 2 

One egg, one-half cup sugar, pinch salt, one tablespoon 
milk, one tablespoon flour, one scant teaspoon baking pow- 
der, one cup chopped nut meats, one cup chopped dates. 
Bake in buttered gem pans, in moderate oven. 

Sauce: One-half cup butter, one-half cup sugar, one- 
half cup water, juice of one lemon. Cook in double boiler. 

Mrs. Lewis B. Sinclair. 

FIG PUDDING 

No. 1 

One pound figs, chopped fine, two tablespoons flour, 
two eggs, two teaspoons ground nutmeg, one cup lemon and 



PUDDINGS AND PASTRY 123 

orange peel and citron, chopped, one cup bread crumbs, 
one cup brown sugar, one cup suet, one teaspoon cinnamon, 
one-half teaspoon soda, sweet milk to mix. Rub figs and 
sugar to a paste, mix in the bread crumbs, flour and nut- 
meg, add the suet and fruit. Beat eggs light, add with the 
milk, in which the soda has been dissolved. Put the mixture 
into buttered molds and steam four hours. Serve hot with 
any nice pudding sauce. 

Mrs. Dean S. Conger. 

FIG PUDDING 

No. 2 

Put ten cents' worth figs through meat grinder, add 
one and one-half cups cold water and one cup sugar, a little 
salt. Boil till thick. Soak one-half package Knox gelatine 
in one-half cup cold water, add it to fig mixture, and mold. 
Cut in cubes and serve with whipped cream. Enough for 
eight, but will keep. 

Mrs. J. M. Coen. 

FIG PUDDING 

No. 3 

Two eggs, one teaspoon salt, one-half cup flour, two 
teaspoons baking powder, one-half cup milk, one cup sugar, 
one cup bread crumbs, one cup figs, chopped fine, one-half 
cup suet, chopped fine. Mix dry ingredients; to them add 
milk and eggs, well beaten. Butter mold and steam three 
hours. 

Mrs. James W. Buell. 

FIG PUDDING 

No. 4 

Two parts cereal, one part dates, one part figs and one 
part nuts. Make into a loaf and serve sliced with cream. 

Mrs. E. T. Cooke. 



124 PUDDINGS AND PASTRY 

FRUIT PUDDING 

One cup chopped apples, three-quarters cup sugar, one 
cup seeded raisins, one-half cup bread crumbs, two well 
beaten eggs, one-half cup chopped nuts, one wineglass 
brandy, one teaspoon each cinnamon and nutmeg. Bake 
very slowly one and one-half hours. Serve with hot sauce. 

Mrs. Charles J. Tonk. 

GRAHAM PUDDING 

One cup sweet milk, one egg, one-half cup molasses, one- 
half cup sugar, two cups graham flour, one level teaspoon 
each of soda and salt. Steam two hours. Serve with sauce 
or creajQ. 

Miss Van Meenen. 

GERMAN CHOCOLATE PUDDING 

One pint bread crumbs, soaked in one pint of hot milk, 
three eggs, three heaping tablespoons sugar, one-quarter 
pound grated chocolate. Beat eggs and mix all ingredients 
thoroughly. Put into buttered pan and steam two hours. 
Serve with whipped cream or slightly sweetened and thick- 
ened raspberry juice, or any simple pudding sauce. 

Mrs. George Campbell. 

HONEY PUDDING 

Pour two-thirds cup of strained honey over two cups 
stale bread crumbs, add the juice of one lemon, one heaping 
tablespoon butter, melted, beaten yolks of three eggs, and 
one-half cup milk. Mix all together well, then add grad- 
ually the stiffly beaten whites of eggs, and pour into a 
buttered pan. Steam for one hour. Serve hot with whipped 
cream. 

Mrs. Charles J. Tonk. 



PUDDINGS AND PASTRY 125 

BAKED INDIAN PUDDING 

(Home Defense Pudding) 

This is a very old recipe, handed down from Puritan 
ancestors. One-half cup Indian meal, one and one-half 
pints rich milk ; boil together over a low fire, seasoning with 
salt and stirring constantly for about twenty minutes. 
First heat a little of the milk, add meal and salt, cook till 
thick, and add the remainder of the milk gradually as it 
thickens. Take from fire and stir in a large cooking spoon- 
ful lard, one teaspoon each ground cinnamon and ginger. 
Break two eggs in a half-pint cup, beat, and fill cup to the 
brim with New Orleans molasses. Turn this into the sea- 
soned meal and beat well. Grease a baking dish, pour in 
mixture and bake, covered, in not too hot an oven for three- 
quarters of an hour, uncover and brown. This swells a 
little in baking. It is equally good Avarmed over. Mix 
with milk, and brown a^ain in oven. A plain butter and 
sugar sauce, one tablespoon soft butter to three of powdered 
sugar, beaten to a cream, is best with this pudding. 

Mrs. S. D. Snow. 

LEMON CREAM PUDDING 

Dissolve three tablespoons cornstarch in cold water, 
then stir into two cups boiling water, in which is the juice 
of one lemon. Cook three minutes. Pour in one cup of 
sugar and then very quickly add the well beaten yolks of 
two eggs. Boil five minutes. Take off and beat in quickly 
with egg whip the whites of eggs, beaten dry. Pour into 
cups. Eat with cream. 

Miss Van Meenen. 

LITTLE XMAS PUDDINGS 

Four tablespoons molasses, one-quarter cup sugar, one- 
half cup milk, four tablespoons melted butter, one-half tea- 



126 PUDDINGS AND PASTRY 

spoon soda, one-half teaspoon cloves, one-quarter teaspoon 
ginger, one-half teaspoon cinnamon, one-eighth teaspoon 
nutmeg, one and three-quarters cups flour, one-half cup 
raisins, one-half cup chopped figs, one-quarter cup chopped 
dates, two tablespoons chopped orange peel. Mix fruit with 
three-quarters cup of the required flour. Steam one and 
one-half hours in individual molds. 

Mrs. E. B. Whitfield. 

MAPLE NUT PUDDING 

Two cups brown sugar, one quart milk. Let come to 
a boil and add two eggs, well beaten, mixed with two table- 
spoons cornstarch. When thick remove from fire and beat 
till somewhat cool. Then add one-half cup coarsely broken 
walnut meats and one teaspoon vanilla. Serve cold in 
sherbet glasses with whipped or plain cream. 

Mrs. B. F. Bullard. 

PLUM PUDDING 

One and three-quarters cups raisins, one and three- 
quarters cups currants, two cups bread crumbs, one cup 
molasses, one cup milk, one cup flour, one teaspoon baking 
powder, one cup suet, chopped, a little salt, one level tea- 
spoon cinnamon. Steam about three hours, then dry off 
in oven. Very nice and keeps well. 

Mrs. C. H. Murray. 

PRUNE PUDDING 

Beat the yolks of two eggs with one-half cup sugar until 
light, add one tablespoon softened butter and one gill milk. 
Sift together one cup flour and one teaspoon baking pow- 
der, stir it in and then stir in the wtII beaten egg whites 
and one cup of prunes that have been soaked over night, 



PUDDINGS AND PASTRY 127 

drained, and the stones removed. (Cooked prunes may be 
used. ) Chop them with a spoon. Turn this into a pudding 
mold and steam continuously for two hours. Allow room 
for swelling or the pudding will be heavy. 

Mrs. George Campbell. 

PUFF PUDDING 

One heaping cup of flour, one teaspoon baking powder 
sifted together thoroughly, pinch salt, enough water stirred 
in to make a batter that will drop from spoon. Steam in 
cups. Four teaspoons fruit and then enough batter to fill 
your cups two-thirds full ; steam one hour. 

Sauce: One cup sugar, small tablespoon cornstarch, 
one tablespoon butter, stir to a cream; two small cups boil- 
ing water. Let it boil until it is transparent. Flavor with 
nutmeg. 

Mrs. Martin Madson. 

RICE PUDDING 

Six teaspoons rice, steamed in milk in double boiler 
two hours; add a pinch of salt. Whip one-half pint of 
cream, and Avhen rice is nearly cold whip it into the cream 
with one heaping tablespoon sugar. Take a small box of 
red raspberries, mash with a fork, a.dd sugar. ^ Sei've this 
fruit over the rice. Cold. 

Mrs. Charles J. Tonk. 

RICE PUDDING AND FRUIT 

Cook one-half cup rice in milk in a double boiler for 
two hours. Add one tablespoon sugar and one tablespoon 
butter to the milk. Serve with preserved strawberries in 



128 PUDDINGS AND PASTRY 

a parfait glass — rice, strawberries, rice, etc. Top with the 
strawberries. 

Mrs. Charles J. Tonk. 

SUET PUDDING 

No. 1 

One cup beef suet, chopped fine, one cup sour milk, 
one cup molasses, one cup fruit, raisins, currants and cit- 
ron cut fine, one-quarter cup wajnut meats, broken into 
small pieces, three cups flour, one teaspoon salt, one level 
teaspoon soda sifted into the flour. Mix suet, milk and 
molasses, sift in the flour, salt and soda, add fruit and nuts, 
well floured. Steam three hours. Will keep indefinitely, 
and can be resteamed and made as good as ever. Serve 
with liquid sauce. 

Sauce: One cup sugar, one tablespoon cornstarch 
mixed Avith sugar, heaping tablespoon butter, one and 
one-half cups water. Boil until thick, add strained juice 
of one lemon, or one-quarter cup Sherry, or any preferred 
flavoring. 

Mrs. S. D. Snow. 

SUET PUDDING 

No. 2 

One cup suet chopped flne, one cup molasses, one cup 
sweet milk, three and one-half cups flour, one cup raisins, 
one-half cup currants, one teaspoon soda, one teaspoon 
cinnamon, one-half teaspoon nutmeg, pinch of salt. Steam 
two hours. Serve with a sweet sauce. 

Mrs. W. M. Thomas. 

SUET PUDDING 

No. 3 

One cup New Orleans molasses, one cup sour milk, one 
cup chopped suet, one cup raisins, and one-half cup cur- 



PUDDINGS AND PASTRY 129 

rants, two cups flour, small teaspoon soda, salt and spice. 
Mix Avell and steam two or tlireo. hours. 

Mrs. Martin Madson. 
SUET PUDDING 

No. 4 

One cup chopped suet, one cup sour milk, one cup 
molasses, one cup seeded raisins, three cups flour, two 
level teaspoons soda, pinch salt. Steam three hours. 

Mrs. Frank W. Werner. 

RAISIN PUFFS 

No. 1 

One-quarter cup butter, one tablespoon sugar, cream 
together. One egg Avell beaten, one-half cup chopped 
raisins, one-half cup milk, one cup flour, one and one-half 
teaspoons baking poAvder sifted with flour. Combine in 
the above order, and put in molds. Fill the molds only 
half full. Steam thirty minutes. .* 

Sauce: Diluted grape juice, sugar, butter, slightly 
thickened. Cook just long enough to combine. 

Mrs. Henry Olson. 

RAISIN PUFFS 

No. 2 

Two eggs, four tablespoons melted butter, two cups 
flour, one cup sweet milk, two tablespoons sugar, two tea- 
spoons baking powder, one cup seeded raisins, chopped 
fine. Steam in teacups half to three-quarters of an hour. 
Serve with hard or liquid sauce. 

Miss Margaret Dawes. 



130 PUDDINGS AND PASTRY 

APPLE ROLL 

Two cups flour, one cup milk, two-thirds cup sugar, 
two teaspoons baking powder, one-half teaspoon salt, two 
teaspoons lard, fresh or canned apples, cinnamon, one 
pint of boiling w^ater, one tablespoon butter, one and one- 
half teaspoons flour. Sift two cups of flour, salt and 
baking powder together. Rub the lard in. Mix in the 
milk as for biscuit. Roll one-half inch thick. Fill this 
with thinly sliced apples, sprinkled with one-half the 
sugar and roll up quickly. Put the i^oll in a well buttered 
pan. Mix the rest of the sugar with one-half teaspoon 
cinnamon. Add one and one-half teaspoons flour, butter 
and boiling water. Pour over the roll. Bake fifty min- 
utes, if fresh apples; thirty minutes if cooked fruit is 
used. Any kind of fruit and juice may be substituted, 
using juice instead of boiling Avater. 

Mrs. Alexander McLean. 

PIE CRUST 
,, (Never Fails) 

Sift three cups flour into a bowl, leaving a hole in the 
center, into which put a little salt, and one cup of ice coM 
lard. Over this pour one-half cup of ice water, and chop 
with a knife until all the flour is used. Handle as little 
as possible. 

Mrs. Charles J. Tonk. 

APPLE PIE 

MaT^e the usual pie crust. Then make the filling of 
three-quarters cup of sugar, three teaspoons water, one 
teaspoon flour, piece of butter size of walnut. Put mix- 
ture on the stove, stirring as it cooks, pour over filling of 



PUDDINGS AND PASTRY 131 

apples, put top crust in place and bake in a moderate 
oven. 

Mrs. Edward H. Turner. 

BANBURY TARTS 

Mix a double portion of pie crust for Banbury tarts. 
Roll thin, and cut the size of a saucer. 

Filling: Two cups of chopped raisins, juice, grated 
rind and pulp of two lemons, two cups of sugar, Avhites of 
two eggs, beaten to a stiff froth, six tablespoons of rolled 
cracker crumbs. Mix thoroughly all together. 

Put a good-sized tablespoon of this filling in the center 
of the round pie crust, fold it together in the form of a 
turnover, and pinch the two edges, closely together. Prick 
the crust plentifully with a fork, for air, as the filling 
swells considerably. This makes eighteen tarts, but the 
longer you keep them, the better they are. 

Mrs. W. M. Hopkins. 

BUTTER SCOTCH PIE 

No. 1 

Line pie plate with rich crust and bake. 

To one cup light brown sugar melted over the fire add 
one large tablespoon butter and cook till sugar is lightly 
burned. Then add one cup milk and when well blended, 
yolks of three eggs. Stir till thick and pour into shell. 
Use whites for meringue beaten with three tablespoons 
powdered sugar. Mrs. Lewis B. Sinclair. 

BUTTER SCOTCH PIE 

No. 2 

Filling: One and one-quarter cups brown sugar, one 
and one-quarter cups water, four heaping tablespoons 



132 PUDDINGS AND PASTRY 

flour, two heaping tablespoons butter, one-half teaspoon 
vanilla, yolks of two eggs. Mix dry ingredients, add eggs, 
water and butter. Cook until very thick. Add vanilla 
and pour into pie shell. 

Mrs. L. L. Gregory. 

CHEESE STRAWS 

Three tablespoons flour, three tablespoons, or more, 
chopped cheese, one tablespoon melted butter, one table- 
spoon milk, one-half teaspoon salt, one-quarter teaspoon 
pepper, yolk one egg. Roll very thin, cut in strips one- 
quarter inch wide and four inches long, and bake in slow 
oven fifteen minutes. 

Miss Elizabeth E. Church. 

CHERRY PIE 

Two cups pitted cherries, one cup sugar, one tablespoon 
flour. Mix sugar and flour, add to cherries. Beat one egg 
and add to the mixture. Bake between two crusts made 
according to any good pastry rule. 

Mrs. Walter Fox. 

FRESH COCOANUT PIE 

One cup fresh cocoanut, two cups milk, two table- 
spoons cornstarch, a little salt, two eggs (yolks only, sav- 
ing whites for meringue), small half cup sugar. Heat 
milk in double boiler, when scalding, thicken with corn- 
starch, add sugar, cook till combined. Cool, and add the 
yolks of eggs, salt and cocoanut. Fill crust, and bake. 
Beat the whites stiff with two tablespoons sugar, spread 
over top, and bro^^^l. If there is too much filling, bake in 
small buttered cups and serve very cold, with a spoonful 
of whipped cream, or one of maple syrup, or caramel. 

Mrs. S. D. Snow. 



PUDDINGS AND PASTRY 133 

CREAM PUFFS WITH ENGLISH CREAM 

Put over fire one cup boiling water and one-half cup 
butter; when butter melts stir in one-half cup sifted 
flour and stir vigorously until mixture leaves the side 
of the saucepan, forming a ball-shaped mass. Turn into 
a mixing bowl, break in three eggs, one after another, 
beating in each egg thoroughly before the next one is 
added. "With a spoon drop and shape in rounds on but- 
tered tins. Bake in moderate oven about thirty minutes. 
When done a puff should feel very light in the hand. If, 
after removal from the oven, the puff ''settles,'' it was 
not baked long enough. When cold, split on side and All 
with English cream. 

English cream : Scald one pint milk and sift together 
several times one-half cup each of flour and sugar and 
one-fourth teaspoon salt. Dilute with a little hot milk, 
mix, then stir into the rest of the milk. Continue to stir 
till the mixture thickens, then cover and let cook fifteen 
minutes. Beat two eggs, add one-fourth cup sugar and 
beat again, then stir into the hot mixture. Continue to 
stir until the egg is cooked, then cool, flavor and use. 

Mrs. Fred P. Pool. 

CREAM PUFFS 

One-half pint water, two ounces butter, or two table- 
spoons, slightly rounded; four ounces Swan's Down 
Pastry Flour; measured unsifted this is just three-quart- 
ers of a cup. Four eggs. Put water and butter on fire, 
and when they boil, stir the flour in quickly, cooking until 
it sticks together, forming a ball which leaves the pan. 
Set away to cool. When cool, add the eggs, one at a time, 
beating all the while, and beat vigorously five minutes 
after adding the last one. Stand in warm place half an 



134 PUDDINGS AND PASTRY 

hour, stirring occasionally, then drop into gem tins and 
bake in quick oven. Watch carefully, as they burn quick- 
ly. When they* are to be used, cut off top, fill with custard 
or preferably cream whipped stiff, slighthr sweetened and 
flavored, and replace top. 

Miss Elizabeth E. Church. 



FILLING FOR PIE 

One cup brown sugar, two tablespoons butter, one 
large cup milk, three tablespoons flour, three tablespoons 
water, a little salt. Mix together and cook until thick. 
Then add the beaten yolks of two eggs. Flavor with 
vanilla. Fill a crust that has been baked. Beat whites of 
eggs, add a little sugar, spread on top, and brown in oven. 

Mrs. L. S. Berry. 

FILLING FOR LEMON PIE 

No. 1 

Add to three beaten yolks one teacup sugar, grated 
rind of one lemon, one cup milk, one heaping tablespoon 
cornstarch, pinch salt, one teaspoon butler, cook until 
a custard. Just before removing from fire add juice of 
one large and one small lemon. Fill baked crust. Make 
meringue of three whites and sugar, spread over pie and 
finish in oven. 

Miss Elizabeth E. Chiurch. 

LEMON PIE 

No. 2 

Grate one lemon not too close, beat well yolks of two 
eggs, one even cup sugar mixed with two tablespoons 
flour, butter size of an egg, juice of one lemon; add one 
and one-half cups boiling water. Let all boil a few 



PUDDINGS AND PASTRY 135 

minutes. Line pie tin with pastry ; bake. When done put 
in filling and cover with a meringue made of the whites 
of tAvo eggs beaten stiff with two teaspoons sugar. Put in 
oven and brown. 

Mrs. W. M. Thomas. 

LEMON PIE 

No. 3 

Cream the yolks of three eggs with one scant cup 
sugar, add the grated rind of one lemon and juice of onef 
and one-half lemons, and last one cup of sweet milk in 
which one medium heaping tablespoon cornstarch is dis- 
solved. 

Mrs. Charles J. Tonk. 

MINCE MEAT 

Xo. 1 

Boil about one pound of beef until tender. One and 
one-half cups chopped beef, two cups raisins, one cup 
currants, one and one-half cups brown sugar, one and one- 
half cups granulated sugar, five cups chopped apples, two 
teaspoons cinnamon, one-half teaspoon mace, one-half tea- 
spoon powdered cloves, one-half cup sliced citron, one- 
half cup brandy, one cup boiled cider, one cup chopped 
suet, one teaspoon salt. Mix in order given, cook for ten 
minutes, stirring constantly. Put in glass jars, adding 
just before doing so, one ounce Sherry wine. Let stand 
a few days before using so that it will become well- 
flavored. 

Mrs. Lester L. Jones. 

MINCE MEAT 

No. 2 

Boil until tender three pounds lean beef. Cool and cut 
in dice. One pound chopped suet, three pounds diced ap- 



136 PUDDINGS AND PASTRY 

pies, one pound sugar, one-half pint molasses, one 
pound seeded raisins, one-half pound currants, grated 
rind of one lemon, one and one-half ounces cinnamon, one- 
half ounce cloves, one grated nutmeg, one-half pint brandy 
and enough boiled cider to moisten. 

Mrs. Charles J. Tonk. 
MINCE MEAT 

No. 3 

Two bowls ground beef, one bowl suet, two bowls ap- 
ples, chopped, one bowl currants, two bowls raisins, three 
bowls sugar, one bowl molasses, one bowl vinegar, one 
bowl boiled cider, one nutmeg, grated, three tablespoons 
cinnamon, two tablespoons cloves, one tablespoon allspice, 
three tablespoons salt. Any bowl can be used, using spice 
to taste. 

Mrs. Frank W. Werner. • 

MINCE MEAT 

No. 4 

Two pounds chopped meat, cooked, one pound chopped 
suet, four pounds raisins, four pounds apples, one-half 
pound citron, eight oranges, one teaspoon allspice and 
cloves, one nutmeg,. two pounds brown sugar, vinegar to 
taste. Mix well and cook until it boils. Excellent. 

Mrs. Martin Madson. 

MOCK MINCE MEAT 

Wash one-half peck green tomatoes, sprinkle with two 
tablespoons salt, and let stand two hours. Drain and 
rinse. Cover with cold water and let boil two hours. 
Then add two pounds seeded raisins, two pounds brown 



PUDDINGS AND PASTRY 137 

sugar, one-half pound suet chopped fine, one pint boiled 
cider, one teaspoon each of cinnamon, cloves and nutmeg. 

Mrs. Frank W. Werner. 

PRUNE PIE 

One pound prunes, cooked and strained, two eggs, well 
beaten, one-half cup cream, sugar to taste. Beat eggs 
separately, stir cream in yolks, add sugar and prunes, 
then beaten whites, juice of lemon or pineapple if de- 
sired. 

Mrs. Frank W. Werner. 

PUMPKIN PIE 

No. 1 

One-half can pumpkin, or its equivalent in freshly 
cooked, two eggs, one large teaspoon constarch, one table- 
spoon melted butter, three-quarters cup sugar, one pint 
milk, one teaspoon cinnamon, several gratings nutmeg, 
three tablespoons brandy. Beat whites of eggs and add 
last. Dissolve cornstarch in milk. 

Mrs. E. M. Landis. 

FILLING FOR PUMPKIN PIE 

No. 2 

For two pies: Three eggs, one and one-quarter cups 
sugar, one cup pumpkin (teacup for measuring these two 
ingredients), nutmeg and cinnamon about one-third tea- 
spoon each, one large teaspoon salt, one bottle cream, 
and enough milk to make three large cups, with the cream. 

Miss Elizabeth E. Church. 

PUMPKIN PIE 

No. 3 

One cup canned pumpkin, one cup cream and milk, 
two eggs well beaten, one-half cup sugar, one teaspoon 



138 PUDDINGS AND PASTRY 

butter, one teaspoon cinnamon, one-quarter teaspoon each 
of salt, ginger and mace. Mix pumpkin with cream and 
milk, add eggs, sugar and spices. 

Mrs. B. H. Clark. 

PUMPKIN PIE 

No. 4 

One and one-half cups canned pumpkin, two eggs well 
beaten, one-half cup milk, one-half cup sugar, one large 
tablespoon flour, one teaspoon cinnamon, one teaspoon 
allspice, one-half teaspoon ginger, pinch each of salt and 
soda. Bake in medium oven one-half hour. 

Mrs. Frank W. Werner. 

SOUR CREAM PIE 

Line pie plate with good rich pie crust. 

Filling : Three yolks of eggs, one cup sugar, one tea- 
spoon cinnamon, one-half teaspoon cloves, one-half cup 
raisins, one cup sour cream. Bake in crust thirty minutes, 
use whites for meringue. 

Mrs. Lewis B. Sinclair. 

STRAWBERRY SHORT CAKE 

One cup flour, one tablespoon lard, one tablespoon 
sugar, one heaping teaspoon Rumford baking powder, 
one-half teaspoon salt. Mash three-quarters quart straw- 
berries slightly and add sugar to taste. When cake is 
baked, split and butter. Add one-quarter quart whole 
berries to mashed ones, and fill between the split cake and 
on top. 

Mrs. Alexander McLean. 



ICES AND DESSERTS 



ANGEL PARFAIT 

Boil together without stirring one-half cup each sugar 
and water till it spins a thread. Meanwhile beat until 
stiff and dry the whites of three eggs, add slowly to them 
the syrup after it has been taken from the fire about half 
a minute. Beat well and flavor with vanilla or any pre- 
ferred flavoring. When cold stir in gently a pint of cream 
which has been whipped very stiff. Put into a mold and 
pack in ice and salt for about four hours. Candied fruits 
and nuts may be added to this before freezing if desired. 

Mrs. George Campbell. 

BANANA ICE CREAM 

One quart cream, four bananas, one and one-third 
tablespoons lemon juice, one cup sugar, a little salt, a few 
drops of vanilla flavoring. 

Miss Elizabeth E. Church. 

CHOCOLATE PARFAIT 

One cup granulated sugar, one-quarter cup water, two 
ounces bitter chocolate, yolks of four eggs, one pint whip- 
ping cream, vanilla to flavor. Boil sugar and water to a 
thick syrup, and pour in a thin stream over the chocolate, 
which should have been jnelted over hot water. Mix 
thoroughly and gradually to the well beaten egg yolks. 
Place over fire in double boiler and cook until mixture 



ICES AND DESSERTS 141 

thickens, stirring constantly. Take from fire, continue 
beating till cool and light, and then flavor. When quite 
cold add cream whipped very stiff. Put in mold and pack 
in ice and salt for four hours. Baking powder cans make 
good molds for this purpose. Grease the edge of the 
opening with lard (not butter on account of the salt) and 
put one or two layers of paraffin paper over the top before 
putting the cover on the mold. This is to keep the salt 
water out of the cream while it is packed. 

Mrs. George Campbell. 

CHRISTMAS ICE CREAM 

One quart of whipped cream, three-quarters pound of 
small red cinnamon candies. Barely cover the candies 
with water, and let stand over night, then run them 
through a meat chopper. Add this to the whipped cream 
and freeze. 

Mrs. W. M. Hopkins. 



GINGER SHERBET 

Soak small piece of dried ginger root over night in cold 
water. In the morning put over the fire with two cups 
water, and boil for fifteen minutes. There should be about 
a cup and a half of liquid. Remove ginger, and add the 
strained juice of two lemons, and a syrup made from 
boiling two cups sugar and two cups water together for 
ten minutes. Turn into the freezer, pack, and allow to 
stand for an hour or more. Then open, and beat in the 
stiffly beaten whites of two eggs. Mix thoroughly, and 
pack again to ripen. 

Mrs. S. D. Snow. 



142 ICES AND DESSERTS 

GRAPE ICE 

One pint milk, one and one-half cups sugar ,one cup 
grape juice, one teaspoon lemon juice. 

Mrs. William G. Cook. 

FAVORITE LEMON SHERBET 

Wash and then squeeze the juice of six lemons into a 
bowl, and steep in it the rind of an orange and of the 
lemons for an hour. Strain the mixture, add a pint of 
sugar and a pint of water. Stir until sugar is dissolved. 
Freeze in the usual way. Before the mixture is quite stiff 
remove the dasher and pour in a cup of rich cream. Stir 
rapidly for a few minutes, but do not churn w^ith the 
dasher again. Pack, and let stand until ready to serve. 

Mrs. George Campbell. 

LEMON ICE 

(Serves Four People) 

One and one-half cups sugar, one cup heavy cream, one 
cup milk; put into freezer together. When it begins to 
freeze add juice of two lemons. 

Miss Elizabeth E. Church. 

MAPLE MOUSSE 

One cup maple syrup, one pint cream, beat separately 
till stiff. Piit together in mold. Pack in salt and ice for 
four hours. 

Miss Elizabeth E. Church. 

MAPLE PARFAIT 

Three-quarters cup maple syrup, yolks four eggs, one 
pint whipped cream. Cook syrup and yolks in double 



ICES AND DESSERTS 143 

boiler until thick. Stir. Cool. Add cream. Pack in 
freezer for four or six hours. 

Mrs. William G. Cook. 

MINT SHERBET 

No. 1 

One cup freshly chopped mint leaves. Pour over them 
two cups boiling water and stand to steep, covered, till cold. 
Make a syrup of two cups sugar and two cups water, boiled 
together for ten minutes; strain liquid from mint leaves * 
and add. Then proceed as directed for ginger sherbet. 
A few spoonfuls of creme de menthe is a great addition to 
this sherbet — not too much, or it will not freeze. Color a 
delicate green with candy coloring. 

Mrs. S. D. Snow. 

MINT SHERBET 

No. 2 

One bunch mint. Shred and squeeze over it juice of 
two lemons. Let stand fifteen minutes in a covered dish. 
Cook two cups sugar, one pint water till it threads. When 
cold add one cup orange juice and the lemon juice, which 
has been squeezed from the mint. Freeze. When half 
frozen add small pieces fresh mint and beaten whites of 
two eggs. Especially good to serve with lamb or chicken 
course. 

Miss Elizabeth E. Church. 

PINEAPPLE MOUSSE 

One tablespoon granulated gelatine, one-quarter cup 
cold w^ater, one cup juice from canned pineapple, two 
tablespoons lemon juice, one cup sugar, one quart whipping 
cream. Dissolve gelatine in cold water, heat pineapple 
juice, lemon juice and sugar, add gelatine while hot, strain 



144 ICES AND DESSERTS 

and cool. When beginning to thicken fold in cream, which 
has been whipped stiff. Put in mold and pack in salt and 
ice for three or four hours. This amount will serve fifteen 
people. 

Miss Elizabeth E. Church. 

CHOCOLATE SAUCE FOR ICE CREAM 

One square chocolate, melted in double boiler. Add 
.one-half cup milk, one-half cup sugar, one tablespoon but- 
ter, level teaspoon vanilla, pinch of salt. Serve hot. 

Mrs. J. M. Coen. 

AMBROSIA 

Bananas, oranges, grated cocoanut, granulated sugar. 
Mix ingredients according to taste and let stand in cold 
place before serving. 

Miss Allie F. Armstrong. 

EASY APPLE SAUCE 

Wash apples. Cut in thin slices, cutting out the blossom 
end and any imperfect places; do not core or peel. Put 
enough water in bottom of saucepan to prevent them from 
burning, and simmer, covered, till soft. Put through a 
puree sieve or ' ' tammy, ' ' add sugar to sweeten, grate nut- 
meg over the top, and serve ice-cold with whipped cream or 
without. 

Mrs. S. D. Snow. 

BISHOP WHIPPLE 

Four eggs, one cup chopped dates, one cup chopped 
nuts, one-half cup sugar, one-half cup flour, one teaspoon 



ICES AND DESSERTS 145 

baking powder. Bake in flat pan, break up, sprinkle with, 
sugar and serve with plain cream. 

Mrs. Herbert Waldemar Snow. 

STUFFED CANTALOUPE 

Have melons thoroughly chilled. Cut in halves, cross- 
wise. Whip one pint cream stiff, sweeten to taste and flavor 
with ground ginger. Add chopped Maraschino cherries and 
marshmallows cut into bits. Heap in melon. This makes 
nice first course for dinner. 

Mrs. Herbert Waldemar Snow. 

NUT CREAM 

One pint cream, one-half cup milk, two tablespoons 
granulated gelatin^, one cup chopped walnuts, one-half cup 
sugar, vanilla. Soak gelatine in milk -one hour, then set 
in hot water over flame until melted ; strain. Whip cream, 
reserving one cup after whipping. Whip the gelatine into 
whipped cream, add sugar, nuts, vanilla and beaten white 
of one egg. Garnish with cream and chopped nuts. 

Mrs. Charles J. Tonk. 

ORANGE CREAM 

One tablespoon Knox gelatine, two tablespoons cold 
water, juice and rind of one orange, three-quarters cup 
sugar, one-half cup boiling water, one bottle whipping 
cream, small pinch of soda. Soak gelatine in cold water, 
add rind, juice, sugar and boiling water. Strain. When 
cold and beginning to thicken add to whipped cream. 
Serve in glasses. 

Mrs. John R. Hollister. 



146 ICES AND DESSERTS 

PINEAPPLE CREAM 

No. 1 

Soak one and one-half tablespoons granulated gelatine 
in one-hajf cup water. Heat one can chopped pineapple, 
add the gelatine, stir until dissolved. When cold and 
slightly thickened add one bottle whipped cream and the 
stiffly beaten whites of three eggs. Mold and chill. 

Mrs. Charles J. Tonk. 

PINEAPPLE CREAM 

No. 2 

One cup chopped pineapple, one-half cup chopped wal- 
nuts, one-half cup marshmallows, soaked in one cup orange 
juice, one cup whipped cream. 

Mrs. E. B. Whitfield. 

FINE SPANISH CREAM 

One quart milk, one-hajf box Cox ' gelatine, one cup 
granulated sugar. Scald fifteen minutes, or until dis- 
solved, in double boiler. Yolks of four eggs, well beaten, 
to be stirred in next, and cooked about five minutes until 
the mixture begins to thicken. Take from fire, pour into 
bowl, add beaten whites of the eggs, mix well, add one tea- 
spoon vanilla and one cup Sherry wine. Can be molded 
to suit. Set on ice. Best when made the day before wanted. 

Mrs. E. M. Landis. 

STRAWBERRY BAVARIAN CREAM 

One quart strawberries, one pint whipping cream, , one 
large cup sugar, one-half cup boiling water, one-half cup 
cold water, one-half package gelatine. Soak gelatine in 
cold water. Mash berries and sugar together, let stand 



ICES AND DESSERTS 147 

one hour, then strain juice from the berries, pressing 
through as much of the pulp as is possible without the 
seeds. Dissolve gelatine in the hot water and then strain 
into the juice. Set basin in pan of ice water, and when 
mixture begins to thicken whip the cream to a stiff froth, 
and add. Beat until thoroughly mixed ajid thick enough 
not to separate and put in mold to harden. Serve with 
plain or whipped cream. 

Mrs. George Campbell. 

CUP CUSTARD 

Two eggs, one-quarter cup granulated sugar, one pint 
milk, grated nutmeg. Beat eggs light, add other ingredi- 
ents and stir until sugar is dissolved. Pour into cups and 
stand in pan of boiling water, then put the pan in the oven 
and bake until custards are set firm in. the center — ^not 
longer, or they will become watery. If directions are fol- 
lowed, they are firm and free from water. Set aside to 
cool and serve in cups. 

Caramel syrup may be served with the custard: Melt 
granulated sugar in frying pan, stirring constantly to avoid 
burning. Add gradually one cup boiling water, and sim- 
mer ten minutes. It will become lumpy on adding the 
water, but keep on stirring. 

Miss Allie F. Armstrong. 

DAINTY DESSERT 

One-half pint cream, whipped stiff, one pound almond 
macaroons, ground to powder, one-half cup pulverized 
sugar, one-half pound marshmallows, cut into dice. Set 
to cool and serve with cherry on top. 

Mrs. Joseph' Frank. 



148 ICES AND DESSERTS 

DATE SOUFFLE 

Three eggs beaten very light, one cup sugar, one cup 
dates, each cut in fine pieces, one cup English walnuts, 
chopped, one tablespoon milk, two tablespoons flour, one 
teaspoon baking powder. Bake in sheet pan in slow oven 
thirty minutes. Serve cold with whipped cream. This 
serves six. 

Mrs. Lewis B. Sinclair. 

DELICATE PUDDING 

One pint cream, one-third cup sugar, one dozen maca- 
aroons, six English walnuts, one teaspoon vanilla. Whip 
the cream very stiff, crush the macaroons, chop nuts fine. 
Mix all ingredients together. Serve very cold in sherbet 
glasses. 

Mrs. Charles J. Tonk. 

EASTER DESSERT 

This makes a pretty dish at a children's party. It rep- 
resents a nest, filled with eggs. Soak one-half box gelatine 
in one-half cup water. Scald two cups milk, add gelatine, 
with two tablespoons sugar and one teaspoon vanilla. Al- 
low to thicken slightly, then whip in one cup of stiffly beaten 
cream. Prick a hole in the large end of each of six eggs, 
let the whites run out into a bowl, then the yolks can easily 
be drained into another bowl. These can be used for cake 
and salad dressing. Wash egg shells in cold water and 
drain, set them upright in anything that w411 hold them 
level, pour in the slightly stiffened mixture by means of 
an oiled paper funnel, and set in a cold place. Soak one- 
quarter box of gelatine in one-quarter cup water, add half 
a cup of boiling water, one-half cup sugar, the juice of a 
lemon and one cup orange juice. (Before squeezing oranges 
wash skins and peel off thin outside skin, to be used for 



ICES AND DESSERTS 149 

straws for the nest.) Strain the orange gelatine into a 
round or oval glass dish, invert a large cup or bowl in the 
center, set in cold place. When ready to serve, break egg 
shells carefully, take cup from center of jelly, lay in the 
eggs, scatter candied orange straws and flecks of whipped 
cream, to represent feathers. For colored Easter eggs, use 
pink coloring, or chocolate, or orange, by stirring into the 
hot blanc-mange the grated rind of one or two oranges. 

Mrs. S. D. Snow. 



FARINA DESSERT 

Separate the yolks and whites of four eggs. Cream the 
yolks with one cup of sugar for one-half hour, add the 
grated rind of one lemon and the well beaten whites, one 
scant cup of farina. Bake slowly. When served, cover 
with small dice of pineapple. Whipped cream. 

Mrs. Charles J. Tonk. 

FIG-APPLE JELLY 

Five apples, core and slice, add one and one-half cups 
water. Chop six figs, add to apples and cook, covered, for 
five minutes. Add one and one-half cups sugar, cook until 
apples are soft. Stir in two tablespoons gelatine, which 
has been soaked five minutes in one cup of water. Serve 
with whipped cream. 

Mrs. E. B. Whitfield. 

FLOATING ISLAND 

Two eggs, one pint milk, two tablespoons sugar, one 
teaspoon vanilla. Separate yolks from whites ; put milk on 
fire in double boiler, whip whites to a dry froth with a. few 
grains of salt, and about a teaspoon of the sugar. When 



150 ICES AND DESSERTS 

milk is scalding, lay on top, by tablespoonsful, the stiffly 
beaten whites, and allow to poach for several minutes. Take 
out, and put in glass serving dish, draining the milk back 
into the boiler. Beat the yolks with the remainder of the 
sugar, in a pint bowl, and pour over them, stirring con- 
stantly, the boiling milk. Put back in the boiler and cook 
to a custard. When cool, add flavoring, and pour around 
the poached whites. Chill before serving. Bits of candied 
cherries can be strewed over the whites, but it is very 
good without. 

Mrs. S. D. Snow. 

APPLE FLUFF 

One nice apple, grated, one egg, two tablespoons sugar. 
Beat the white of the egg to a stiff froth in a large bowl, 
add gradually the sugar, and a pinch of salt, then the 
grated apple, which must not have been allowed to turn 
dark by standing. Beat until stiff. Make a custard of the 
yolk of the egg, one and one-half cups milk, and one table- 
spoon sugar. Flavor with vanilla.. Serve very cold. When 
ready to serve, pour around the whip. 

Mrs. S. D. Snow. 

STRAWBERRY FLUFF 

One cup strawberries, one cup sugar, and the white of 
one egg. Crush strawberries, add sugar and egg. Beat 
until stiff with a Dover egg beater. 

Miss Josephine Van Meenen. 

FRUIT TAPIOCA 

One cup tapioca, add oixe pint cold water, let stand on 
fire till cooked clear and soft, add one-half pint boiling 



ICES AND DESSERTS 151 

water, a pinch of salt and sweeten to tajste. When cool add 
one quart of strawberries. Serve with whipped cream. 

Mrs. Martin Madson. 

HOT DAY DESSERT 

One-half can pineapple, cut small. Mix together with 
one small box marshmallows, sweeten to taste. Before 
serving, add one bottle cream, whipped. If liked, cherries 
may be added. 

Mrs. E. M. Landis. 

MARSHMALLOW ORANGE DESSERT 

Cut contents of one ten cent package Angelus marsh- 
mallows in quarters, or smaller, with scissors. Soak in juice 
of four ora:iiges two hours. Serv^e in sherbet glasses with 
whipped cream on top. 

Miss Elizabeth E. Church. 

BAKED PEARS 

Take six good sized ripe pears, wash, cut in halves, cut 
out cores. Fill the hollow with butter. Put one-half cup 
water in a shallow baking pan, a few small pieces of butter, 
and the pears. Cover with one cup snigar. Dust very light- 
ly with cinnamon. Bake slowly until tender, about one 
hour. 

Mrs. Charles J. Tonk. 

PRUNE GELATINE ^^ 

Cook till tender in very little water, one dozen large 
prunes. Rub through a sieve, and add to one pint of lemon 
gelatine just as it starts to congeal. Put in a mold, serve 
with whipped cream. 

Mrs. Charles J. Tonk. 



152 ICES AND DESSERTS 

MRS. HELEN C. PEIRCE'S RICE DESSERT 

One-quarter cup rice, one cup milk, one-quarter cup 
water, white of one egg, one-quarter package gelatine, two 
tablespoons sugar, one cup cream, flavoring. Boil rice in 
the milk about one and one-half hours. Dissolve gelatine 
in the one-quarter cup water, add to the rice while hot, 
then the sugar. Whip the cream and add when rice is cool, 
also the well beaten white of the egg. Flavor with vanilla. 
Maraschino, or any preferred flavoring. Serve with cream 
or with fresh strawberries. 

Mrs. L. S. Berry. 

RUSSIAN LOAF 

Sunshine cake, bake in loaf, split in two, and fill with 
custard made with pint of milk, four eggs and sugar. When 
cool, add one-half pint whipped cream. Put between and 
on top, sprinkle with candied cherries and nuts. 

Mrs. Adam Schneider. 

ALMOND PUDDING 

Three-quarters cup sugar, yolks four eggs, one-quarter 
cup water, two ounces of almond paste, six lady fingers, 
one and one-half cups cream. Boil the sugar and water 
to a thick syrup and cool. Rub the paste to a smooth batter 
with one-half cup cream, adding the cream gradually ; then 
the well beaten yolks of eggs and the cooled syrup. Cook 
in «., double boiler to a creamy consistency, stirring con- 
stantly. Beat until cold, add vanilla. Whip the remain- 
ing cup of cream very stiff. Fold in gently six grated lady 
fingers and the cooked mixture. Put to chill for four 
hours. 

Mrs. Charles J. Tonk. 



ICES AND DESSERTS 153 

ORANGE PUDDING 

One cup orange juice, one pint whipped cream, two tea- 
spoons Knox gelatine dissolved in two tablespoons cold 
water, one cup granulated sugar. To cook: Put orange 
juice, gelatine and sugar over fire ajid stir until it is melt- 
ed. Let stand two or three minutes or until cold. Whip 
cream stiff, stir all together and put in mold. Serve with 
following sauce: Two cups orange juice, one cup granu- 
lated sugar, one cup cold water, yolks of two eggs, two tea- 
spoons cornstarch. This will serve twelve. 

. Mrs. Harvey Grace. 

SCHAUM TORTE 

Whites of three eggs beaten very stiff, one cup granu- 
lated sugar beaten into eggs, one tablespoon vinegar. Bake 
in square tins or gem pans as individual cakes. Fill with 
fruit and whipped cream. Bake in very slow oven forty 
minutes. 

Mrs. Adam Schneider. 

SHREDDED WHEAT BISCUIT WITH FRUIT 

One ripe banana mashed to a pulp and mixed with a few 
chopped dates. Crumble half a shredded wheat biscuit in 
a bowl and spread fruit mixture over it, then lay top of 
biscuit on the fruit. Pour over it rich cream. 

Mrs. E. T. Cooke. 

STRAWBERRY SPONGE 

One quart strawberries, one-half package gelatine, one 
and one-half cups water, one cup sugar, juice of one lemon, 
whites of four eggs. Soak gelatine in one-half cup coM 



154 ICES AND DESSERTS 

water, mash berries and add one-half cup sugar. Boil the 
other half cup sugar and one cup water gently for 
twenty minutes. Strain the berries through a sieve. Pour 
boiling syrup on gelatine and when dissolved, strain the 
mixture into the juice. Set basin into a pan of ice water 
and when it begins to thicken, beat the egg whites very stiff 
and then beat together until the mixture is too thick to. 
separate. Pour into a mold. Serve with sugar and cream. 

Mrs. George Campbell. 



JELLIES AND PICKLES 



TO CAN BERRIES, PLUMS, PEACHES 

Fill sterilized cans with washed fruit. Make a syrup 
in proportion of one cup sugar to one quart fruit. Pour 
boiling syrup over fruit. Put rubbers on cans and seal 
tightly. Place cans in container with tight cover. Pour 
boiling water over jars till they are immersed, cover con- 
tainer and let stand until cold. Preserves color and keeps 
fruit whole. 

Mrs. Walter Fox. 

CANNED PLUMS 

One square box plums, ten cups water, ^ve cups granu- 
lated sugar. Boil water and sugar together, skim occasion- 
ally. When clear and somewhat syrup-like, put in washed 
plums and cook for a few minutes until tender. Seal while 
hot. One square box of plums makes three quarts when 
cooked. Either the blue or red plums are nice for sauce. 
There is very little work to canning plums. 

Mrs. William A. Olson. 

CONSERVE 

Five pounds fruit (currants, plums or gooseberries), 
five pounds sugar, two pounds raisins, juice of five oranges, 
rinds of three (chop, boil up three times, changing w^ater 
each time). Boil all together until thick. 

' Mrs. William G. Cook. 



JELLIES AND PICKLES 157 

APRICOT AND PINEAPPLE CONSERVE 

One dozen fresh apricots, one medium sized pineapple. 
Equal amount of sugar. Cook pineapple with very little 
water. Add sugar and stoned apricots. Cook until soft. 
Very good. 

Mrs. E. B. Whitfield. 

CRANBERRY CONSERVE 

Four peeled apples, three quarts cranberries, two 
pounds raisins. Boil together until tender, then add grated 
rind and juice of four oranges and six pounds sugar. Cook 
until thick. 

Miss Van Meenen. 

GRAPE CONSERVE 

One basket of grapes ( about seven pounds), one pound 
walnuts, two pounds raisins, three pounds sugar. Pulp 
grapes and cook till seeds are easily removed. Put through 
sieve. Add raisins, walnuts and sugar, and cook for ten 
minutes. 

Miss Van Meenen. 

PEACH AND TOMATO CONSERVE 

Prepare peaches and tomatoes. Weigh one-half as many 
pounds of tomatoes as you have peaches. Add one-hajf the 
weight of sugar as the combined fruits. Slice thin two 
lemons to each five pounds, a few pieces ginger root, cloves, 
stick cinnamon. Tie cloves in a bag and remove before 
bottling. Cook about four hours, stirring constantly. 

Mrs. Charles J. Tonk. 



158 JELLIES AND PICKLES 

PLUM CONSERVE 

No. 1 

One basket large blue plums, two lemons, two oranges 
(put two latter through grinder), two pounds dark seedless 
raisins (not seeded raisins), four pounds sugar. Watch 
carefully till sugar dissolves. Boil one hour. I put this in 
glasses. 

Mrs. Dean S. Conger. 

PLUM CONSERVE 

No. 2 

Three pounds blue sweet plums, three pounds granu- 
lated sugar, one pound seeded raisins, one-quarter pound 
English walnuts, two oranges. Pit the plums, chop the 
oranges and walnuts. Cook all together for one hour or 
until thick and then seal. 

Miss Van Meenen. 

PLUM CONSERVE 

No. 3 

Weigh fruit, use equal amount of sugar. Add as much 
water as sugar. Stir well, and add white of one egg, slight- 
ly beaten. Stir all together and boil. When boiling, stir in 
one gill cold water, then set off fire. Let stand five minutes, 
skim, bring to boiling point, drop in plums, cook for one 
hour. 

Mrs. E. B. Whitfield. 

RHUBARB CONSERVE 

Four pounds rhubarb, four pounds sugar, one pound 
layer figs, one pound seeded raisins, one pound English 
walnuts, almonds or pecans. Cut figs and raisins fine and 
put in bottom of kettle. Cut rhubarb in half-inch lengths 



JELLIES AND PICKLES 159 

and put on with alternate layers of sugar. Cover, and let 
stand until morning. Then add riuts, after putting them 
through the coarsest knife of the meat chopper. Boil down 
until thick as marmalade. 

Miss Van Meenen. 

APRICOT JAM 

Wipe with coarse cloth, cut in small pieces, add sugar, 
pound for pound. Put in earthen dish, stand over night, 
boil until thick. 

Mrs. William G. Cook. 

HEAVENLY JAM 

One quart cherries, one quart blackberries, one pint red 
raspberries, one quart gooseberries. Measure sugar, cup for 
cup, with fruit, aud cook till thick. 

Miss Josephine Van Meenen. 

FOUR FRUIT JAM 

One quart cherries, one quart raspberries, one quart 
gooseberries, one quart currants (juice only), four and 
one-half pounds sugar. 

Mrs. William G. Cook. 

AMBROSIAL JELLY 

Pare and core enough early apples to make six quarts 
of juice. Cook and strain as for jelly. Measure sugar, cup 
for cup, with juice. When it begins to thicken, stir in juice 
and pulp of two oranges, two lemons, one pound seedless 
raisins and one cup preserved cherries. 

Miss Josephine Van Meenen. 



160 JELLIES AND PICKLES 

CRANBERRY JELLY 

One quart cranberries, one cup cold water, two cups 
granulated sugar. Cook cranberries thoroughly and add 
sugar last, boiling ten or fifteen minutes. Strain. 

Miss Allie F. Armstrong. 

MINT JELLY 

A day or two before making this jelly, gather enough 
fresh mint to fill without crowding, when stripped from 
the stems, a quart fruit jar. Wash mint thoroughly, dry 
on cloth to remove surplus moisture, strip from stems, and 
put into jar. Heat one-half cup strong vinegar to boiling, 
and pour over leaves. Seal jar, and set away in a, dark 
place for a day or two. Use for the jelly one-half peck 
apples, Maiden's Blush is a good variety. Make a stiff 
apple jelly, using as much sugar as juice. While this is 
cooking, strain the mint flavored vinegar through a cloth, 
squeezing hard, and pour the vinegar into the boiling .ielly. 
It should not be necessary to cook it much longer; boiling 
injures the flavor. Have ready some green candy coloring, 
color a delicate green. Remove from the fire and pour into 
glasses, allow to set, and seal with paraffin as any other 
jelly. Delicious with roast lamb, or any cold meats. 
Serve very cold. 

Mrs. S. D. Snow. 

QUINCE AND CRANBERRY JELLY 

Six quinces, two quarts cranberries. Boil quinces in 
plenty of water until soft, add cranberries and boil until 
soft. Let drip, and add as much sugar as juice. Cook 
until it jells. 

Mrs. E. B. Whitfield. 



JELLIES AND PICKLES 161 

GRAPE FRUIT MARMALADE 

One grape fruit, one orange, one lemon; slice all thin, 
then in dice, using but one-half the skin of the grape fruit. 
To each pint of fruit use two pints of water. Let stand 
over night. In the morning boil slowly for ten minutes, 
then let stand over night again. Take one pint of sugar 
to one pint of fruit and liquid together, boil until thick. 
Put in glasses. 

Mrs. Charles J. Tonk. 

ORANGE MARMALADE 

Sour, thin skinned California oranges without dark 
spots on skin, are best. One dozen oranges, five lemons. 
Slice very thin, removing seeds and white core. Cover with 
eight quarts cold water, and let stand twenty-four hours. 
Cook one hour after boiling point is reached, skimming 
often. Set aside for twenty-four hours. Measure one bowl 
of sugar for each bowl of pulp, and cook one hour or more, 
until of the consistency of jelly. Stir almost constantly to 
keep from burning. Better cook in several kettles, or small 
quantity ^t a time, as it will jelly much easier. This makes 
about twenty-four jelly glasses. By straining, jelly can be 
made. 

Mrs. E. M. Landis. 

PINEAPPLE AND APRICOT MARMALADE 

Put pineapple through grinder, saving all the juice, 
same quantity apricots, peeled and put through colander. 
Not quite as much sugar as fruit. Cook until thick and 
clear. Seal up in tumblers. Delicious. 

Miss. Elizabeth E. Church. 



16A JELLIES AND PICKLES 

GINGER PEARS 

Six pounds pears, weighed after paring, coring, and 
putting through food chopper. Six pounds sugar, one-half 
pound candied ginger, also put through chopper. 

Mrs. E. T. Cooke. 

CITRON PRESERVE 

Take green part of watermelon rind and soak over night 
in water in which a small piece of alum has been dissolved. 
Put this on to boil in the morning, and let it simmer until 
the pieces begin to look transparent. Then weigh, and add 
pound for pound of sugar, also the yellow rind and pulp of 
one lemon and a large tablespoon of white ginger root. Let 
this boil quite a long time, until the citron is clear and 
thoroughly seasoned. 

Mrs. Edward' H. Turner. 

PRESERVED PEACHES, WITH MAPLE SYRUP 

One-half bushel freestone peaches, peel and put in pre- 
serving kettle. Put over them eight pounds granulated 
sugar, allow to remain over night. In the morning add one 
quart of water and one quart of maple syrup, cook slowly 
for six hours, and can. 

Mrs. George A. MacCorkle. 

CHERRY PICKLE 

Cover pitted cherries with cider vinegar, let stand over 
night, drain from vinegar. Take one pound granulated 
sugar to one of the drained cherries, alternating fruit and 
sugar, mix thoroughly. Let stand in a cool place and stir 



JELLIES AND PICKLES 163 

frequently. When sugar is dissolved and syrup is thick, 
seal in glass jars. This keeps perfectly. Do not cook. 

Mrs. Martin Madson. 

CHILI SAUCE 

(Fine) 

Eighteen ripe firm tomatoes, five medium onions, five 
nice red peppers. Chop all medium fine. Three table- 
spoons salt, four cups vinegar, ten tablespoons white sugar. 
Cook all together about one and one-half hours. Seal in 
Mason jars. 

Mrs. D. C. Prescott. 

CHILI SAUCE WITHOUT SPICES 

Fourteen ripe tomatoes, two onions, one cup sugar, 
three red peppers, two and one-half cups vinegar, one tea- 
spoon salt, two stalks celery. Onions and tomatoes cut in 
large pieces. Boil three hours. 

Miss Elizabeth E. Church. 

PICCALILLI 

One-quarter peck green tomatoes, eight large onions, 
one large cabbage, twelve cucumbers. Chop fine and add 
three dozen tiny white onions, and two dozen tiny pickles 
( these may be omitted) , pack in salt over night. In morn- 
ing pour off the salt water, and soak in diluted vinegar a 
day or two, then drain and add: One-half pint grated 
horse radish, one-quarter pound white mustard seed, several 
red peppers, one-quarter ounce celery seed, three table- 
spoons black pepper, one fifteen-cent box Coleman's mus- 
tard, one pound brown sugar. Mix spices and sugar with 
three quarts cider vinegar and let boil. Add chopped in- 



164 JELLIES AND PICKLES 

gredients and heat all together well. Seal air-tight. Glass 
covered jars are best. 

Mrs. John R. Holuster. 

MUSTARD PICKLES 

One quart large cucumbers, sliced, two quarts small 
cucumber pickles, whole, one quart large onions, sliced, two 
quarts small onions, whole, one large cauliflower, three 
green peppers, three red peppers. Pour over this a hot 
brine of one cup of salt to a gallon of boiling water. 

Paste: One cup of flour, one-quarter of a pound of 
Coleman's mustard, four cups sugar, one-half ounce of 
tumeric, one-half gallon cider vinegar, one-half ounce 
celery seed. Boil this ten minutes. Drain pickles, add 
paste, boil all together ten minutes and seal in Mason jars. 

JVIrs. Lewis B. Sinclair. 

OLIVE OIL PICKLES 

Four dozen pickles, sliced, three pints vinegar, three- 
quarters Clip yellow^ mustard seeds, two and one-half table- 
spoons celery seed, three-quarters cup sugar, three-quartei*s 
cup salt, one and one-half cups best olive oil. Put pickles 
in jar, cover ^vith mixture. No cooking. 

Mrs. Louis Wittbold. . 

SWEET WATERMELON PICKLE 

Use only the white portion of the watermelon rind, re- 
jecting both the green and pink parts. After the green 
rind is peeled off, weigh the white part, and to each seven 
pounds allow four pounds white sugar, a pint of vinegar, 
two teaspoons allspice, two of cinnamon, one teaspoon 
cloves, one teaspoon ginger, and half a teaspoon ground 



JELLIES AND PICKLES 165 

mace. Mix all the spices together, divide them into four 
parts, and tie each part into a piece of cheesecloth. Put 
watermelon over fire in cold water, bring to the boiling 
point and cook until it is transparent. Drain. Put sugar 
and vinegar with all the spices into a porcelain lined kettle. 
When boiling add the watermelon a little at a time. Cook 
until it is dark, not more than five or ten minutes, then 
put away in a stone jar. Next morning drain off all the 
juice, heat to boiling point and pour over the watermelon 
rind. Do this for nine consecutive mornings, the last morn- 
ing heating the rind in the juice and boiling the juice down 
till it will just cover the rind. 

Mrs. George Campbell. 
CORN RELISH 

No. 1 

One dozen ears corn, one good sized head cabbage, one- 
half gallon vinegar, one cup brown sugar, three tablespoons 
ground mustard, three tablespoons salt, three red or green 
peppers. Cut corn from cobs, chop cabbage and peppers, 
add sugar and salt, mix mustard with vinegar, boil till corn 
is done. Seal in jars. 

Mrs. Harry Olson. 

CORN RELISH 

No. 2 

Twelve ears corn, boiled, four chopped green peppers, 
two chopped red peppers, small head cabbage, two stalks 
celerj^, one tablespoon celery salt, one cup sugar, three 
pints vinegar, tAvo tablespoons salt, one-quarter pound 
Coleman's mustard. Cut corn from cob, add rest of ingre- 
dients. Boil twenty minutes. 

Mrs. Bradley Buell. 



166 JELLIES AND PICKLES 

PEPPER RELISH 

One dozen green peppers, one dozen red peppers, one 
dozen large onions, chopped medium fine. Pour boiling 
water over peppers, let stand ten minutes, drain, mix with 
the onions. Add two tablespoons salt, two and one-half 
cups sugar, one quart cider vinegar. Boil for one hour. 
Seal tight. 

Mrs. Charles J. Tonk. 



LEFT-OVERS 



BREAD GRIDDLE CAKES 

One and one-half cups fine bread crumbs, one and one- 
half cups scalded milk, two tablespoons butter, two eggs, 
one-hajf cup flour, one-half teaspoon salt, three and one- 
half teaspoons baking poAvder. Add milk and butter to 
crumbs, soak until crumbs are soft; add eggs well beaten, 
flour, salt and baking powder sifted. Cook as other griddle 
cakes. 

Mrs. Henry A. Obermann. 

BREAD OMELET 

This is easier to ma.ke than any other kind, and is de- 
licious. Fill a cup with bread crumbs, and pour in milk 
until it is full. When soft, put in pan, add four eggs, 
which were beaten slightly. Beat all together with egg 
beater until the whole mixture is smooth. Season with 
salt and pepper and cook in the usual fashion. 

Miss Allie F. Armstrong. 

CHEESE STRAWS 

These can be made from left-overs — dry American 
cheese, and pie crust left over from making a pie. Grate 
the cheese, and season rather highly with salt and a few 
grains of cayenne. Roll the pie crust out thin, sprinkle 
thickly with grated cheese, roll up like a jelly roll, pat flat 
with the rolling pin, roll out again, sprinkle with more 
cheese, and repeat until impossible to manipulate the dough. 



LEFT-OVERS 169 

Roll out about a half inch thick, and cut with a silver knife 
into strips about four inches long and one-half inch wide. 
Lay these in pans, and bake in not too hot an oven, as they 
burn easily. Serve with salad. 

Mrs. S. D. Snow. 



CHICKEN A LA KING 

Marinate two cups of stewed chicken, cut in small pieces, 
in French dressing for one hour, then drain. Cook two 
tablespoons butter with a small green pepper and one-half 
teaspoon grated onion. Rub two tablespoons flour smooth 
into two tablespoons butter. Heat one cup milk and when 
at boiling point add butter and flour, stirring until quite 
smooth, then add beaten yolks of two eggs and three-fourths 
cup cream, a few drops of lemon juice and a little of the 
grated rind, salt to taste and a dash of paprika. Cook this 
mixture in double boiler until quite thick, then add chicken 
and one cup mushrooms. When all is quite hot pour into 
baking dish, cover with bread crumbs and put under broiler 
flame a few minutes to brown crumbs. Serve with triangles 
of toast. 

Mrs. Fred P. Pool. 



cornt:d beef hash 

To twice the quantity of corned beef add half the 
amount each of potatoes and beets, all of Avhich have been 
cooked and turned through the grinder. Add cold water 
enough to moisten well and place in a skillet over a slow 
fire, otir frequently to prevent a crust forming, since 
beets become bitter when browned. Serve on hot platter. 

Mrs. F. H. Gansbergen. 



170 LEFT-OVERS 

CURRY 

Put two tablespoons of butter or dripping in skillet or 
frying pan. Add one small onion, cut up fine, one small 
sour apple, cut up fine. Cook tender. Add one level tea- 
spoon of curry powder, mix. Add one and one-half cups 
water, stir till cooked smooth. If too thick, add more 
water, season with salt. Then add a pint or less of chopped 
meat, cook for five minutes. Serve in border of boiled rice. 

Mrs. Louis J. Hotchkiss. 

ESCALOPE ROYALE 

Eight hard-boiled eggs, separate whites and yolks, one 
pound of cold boiled ham, ground. Four soda crackers or 
same amount of bread crumbs. Make a cream sauce of one 
pint cream, one pint milk, little butter and flour to thicken. 
Put in layers and bake one-half to three-quarters of an 
hour. 

Mrs. Frank W. Werner. 

DISH TO UTILIZE LEFT-OVER FISH 

Make sauce of two level tablespoons butter, two level 
tablespoons flour, one-half cup cream, one-half cup milk, 
season. Add one pint flaked fish, one yolk, beaten. Put 
into buttered dish, or individual ones, crumbs on top. Bake 
in dish of water one-half hour or longer. 

Miss Elizabeth E. Church. 

FISH EN COQUILLE 

Pick up left-over of any cooked fish — whitefish is espe- 
cially good. Make a thick cream sauce, put in fish and allow 
to stand till cold. Fill the little coquille shells, which can 
be bought in the hardware section of any store, cover with 



LEFT-OVERS 171 

grated bread crumbs, season lightly, dot with butter and 
brown under the gas in the broiler. Serve with this little 
sweet cucumber pickles or piccalilli. 

Mrs. S. D. Snow. 

CREAMED HAM 

Put one tablespoon butter and one tablespoon flour in 
saucepan, blend over fire, then add one cup of milk. Season 
slightly, add ham, cut in small pieces. Use more seasoning 
if necessary. Serve with freshly boiled rice or hominy. 

Mrs. Louis J. Hotchkiss. 

HAM PATTIES 

One cup fine chopped or gi'ound cooked ham, one-half 
cup bread crumbs, one-quarter cup milk, one teaspoon 
melted butter, salt and pepper to taste. Mix ham with 
bread crumbs and seasonings, add melted butter, moisten 
with milk. Half fill buttered gem pans or patty pans with 
the mixture. Break one egg carefully on top of each, sprin- 
kle with salt and pepper and cover with fine bread or 
cracker crumbs. Bake about eight minutes in a brisk oven. 
Serve at once. 

Mrs. Louis J. Hotchkiss. 

POTTED HAM 

Nice scraps from a boiled or baked ham; there must be 
no hard pieces. Chop all very fine, first through medium 
knife of grinder, then through the finest. Rub to a paste, 
and to each cupful add one-quarter teaspoon dry mustard 
and a few grains of cayenne. If very dry, add melted but- 
ter or ham fat. Press tightly into small earthen or porce- 



172 LEFT-OVERS 

lain lined cups, set cups in pan of hot water, cover with a 
thin layer of melted fat, then cover tightly, put in oven and 
bake one hour. Allow to get cold, then cover tops with 
paper. Use for sandwiches or sliced thin. This ^vill keep 
well in a cool, dry place. Tongue or fish may be prepared 
the same way. 

Mrs. S. D. Snow. 

HAM SOUFFLE 

One cup cooked chopped ham, one cup white sauce, four 
hard-boiled eggs. Chop whites and add to sauce. Add 
chopped yolks to meat. Put all together in greased bread 
tin. Sprinkle one cup of buttered bread crumbs on top. 
Bake fifteen minutes. 

Mrs. E. B. Whitfield. 

BAKED HASH 

Meat may be left from steak, pot roast, veal roast, veal 
or mutton. To a pint of chopped meat add one-half the 
quantity of moist bread crumbs, season with salt and pep- 
per. To give different flavor onion may be used, or celery, 
or sage. Put into casserole, add more milk and bake twenty 
minutes or more. 

Mrs. Louis J. Hotchkiss. 

HASH 
(But Don't Tell!) 

Take finely ground cold hash, add a little chopped 
parsley and a small amount of lemon juice. Form into 
croquettes, dip in egg, then in cracker or bread crumbs. 
Fry in hot lard and put on brown paper to absorb grease. 



LEFT-OVERS 173 

Pour over them, when nicely arranged in dish, white 
sauce, in which is sliced boiled eggs. 

This is my own invention, so of course, I do not recom- 
mend it. 

Mrs. E. M. Landis. 

LAMB TERRAPIN 

Two cups cold lamb, diced, two tablespoons butter and 
one of flour, cooked together; add one cup of stock and 
one-half cup of cream. Noav add meat, one teaspoon 
French mustard, one tablespoon Worcestershire sauce, two 
hard-boiled eggs, cut in pieces, two tablespoons Sherry 
wine. Season to taste. May be served in paltry shells, or 
on toast. 

Mrs. J. M. Coen. 

MEAT CROQUETTES 

No. 1 

Season one cup chopped cold meat with salt, celery, 
cayenne, lemon and onion juice. Moisten with following 
sauce and cool. 

Sauce : Melt one and one-half tablespoons butter, add 
three tablespoons flour, add gradually one-half cup milk. 
Season. Shape into balls and fry in hot fat. 

Mrs. Frank W. Werner. 

MEAT CROQUETTES 

No. 2 

One cup chopped cooked meat, three tablespoons butter, 
one-half tablespoon salt, one-half cup cream, one-half cup 
stock, one-half cup stale bread, one egg. Flavor to taste. 
Mix ingredients and cook a minute. When cold mold, egg 
and crumb, and fry in deep fat. 

Miss Margaret Dawes. 



174 LEFT-OVERS 

MEAT PIE 

Meat may be left from steak, pot roast, veal roast, veal 
or mutton. Cut meat in small pieces ; if there is gravy use 
it, if not make a white sauce of a tablespoon butter, a table- 
spoon flour, blended, and a cup of milk. Season sauce 
well with salt ajid pepper. Add meat and cook a few mo- 
ments so meat may flavor sauce. 

Make a crust of a cup of flour, sifted with level tea- 
spoon baking powder, level tablespoon lard and one-half 
teaspoon salt, moisten to consistency of biscuit dough and 
roll out to fit the casserole. Put meat and part of gravy in 
casserole and dough over. Bake one-half hour. 

Mrs. Louis J. Hotchkiss. 

SOUR MEAT 

Brown a heaping tablespoon of flour in a frying pan 
over a not too hot fire, and stir into it enough soup stock 
(or water) to make it of the consistency of a rather thick 
cream sauce. Then add four tablespoons of good cider 
vinegar, three tablespoons sugar, a wajnut of butter, salt 
and pepper to taste, a tiny bit of bay-leaf, and a couple of 
cloves. Cook in this sauce a finely minced onion. A«dd to 
this sauce boiled beef, cut in slices, or meat balls ; bring to 
a good boil and it is ready to serve. Any tender left-over 
meats may be used. 

Mrs. B. F. Bullard. 

LEFT-OVER POTATOES 

Cold baked potatoes are the most difficult to dispose of. 
They are sometimes a little bitter near the skin. Peel them, 
chop fine, put in bowl, and to each cupful of potatoes add 
one teaspoon flour, salt and pepper to taste. Mix well and 
put into saucepan with just enough milk to cover. Boil 



LEFT-OVERS 175 

up, stirring constantly, and set aside till needed. Heat an 
iron skillet, put in enough lard or drippings to cover the 
bottom, turn in the potato mixture, spread it out thin, and 
brown slowly. Fold over, as you would an omelet, and 
serve. Cold creamed or scalloped potatoes can be used 
the same way. 

Mrs. S. D. Snow. 



RISSOLES 

Meat may be left from steak, pot roast, veal roast, 
veal or mutton. When there is pie crust left, roll it out thin 
and cut the size of a saucer. Make a plain hash of chopped 
meat and seasoning, onion if desired, cool, and place a 
good-sized tablespoonful on each round of pie crust. Fold 
over like a turnover, press the edges lightly. Place in 
baking pan and bake in quick oven fifteen minutes. Serve 
with white sauce. 

Mrs. Louis J. Hotchkiss. 



CREAM OF CHICKEN SOUP 

The bones of a boiled or roasted chicken. If there is 
some meat or gravy which can be added, so much the better. 
Cover bones with cold water, slice a medium sized onion and 
a few stalks of celery, and simmer for two or three hours, 
or longer. Strain off liquid, add an equal quantity of milk, 
and to one quart of soup add, when boiling, a paste of one 
teaspoon Penang curry powder, one teaspoon sajt, two tea- 
spoons flour, stirred with three teaspoons butter, or chicken 
fat. Boil for ten minutes, and serve with a spoonful of 
whipped cream on top of each cup. Rice may be added. 

Mrs. S. D. Snow. 



176 LEFT-OVERS 

SOUP FROM LEFT-OVERS 

It is always a problem to know how to dispose of the 
small left-overs of meats and vegetables. Here is where 
the puree sieve is worth its weight in gold and saves its 
small cost many times over. It is a round wire sieve, with 
handle and hooks, to fit over the pot, and is accompanied 
by a metal masher to force the food through sieve. There 
are numberless uses for this utensil. Save all good food, 
no matter how small the quantity, for two or three days. 
Then heat it, if possible, in the water in which some vege- 
table has been boiled, w^hich you have saved for the pur- 
pose; pass while hot through the sieve, reduce by boiling, 
if necessary, add an equal amount of milk, thicken slightly 
if a cream soup, season if necessary, and serve. Whipped 
cream on top, with a sprinkle of chopped parsley, makes a 
company dish. Do not be afraid of mixtures, and some- 
times a little chopped onion improves the flavor, cooked 
with other ingredients before straining. 

Mrs. S. D. Snow. 

MOCK TERRAPIN 

One and one-half cups cold cooked chicken, or veal, cut 
in dice. One cup white sauce. Yolks of two hard-boiled 
eggs, finely chopped. Whites of two hard-boiled eggs, 
chopped. Three tablespoons of Sherry wine. One-quarter 
teaspoon salt. Few grains cayenne. Make the white sauce 
of two tablespoons butter, two tablespoons flour, one cup 
milk, one-quarter teaspoon salt. Melt butter, add flour, 
stir till it bubbles, add milk, stir till cooked smooth. Add 
chicken, yolks and whites of eggs, salt, cayenne. Cook two 
minutes and add wine. (The wine is not necessary for a 
good dish, but does give a fine flavor.) 

Mrs. Louis J. Hotchkiss. 



LEFT-OVERS 177 

TOASTED CHEESE FINGERS 

Cut slices of bread one-half inch thick, cut off crust and 
cut in strips. To one-half pound American cheese, grated, 
add one egg, beat together, season with salt to taste, pile 
on bread, add dash of paprika, and toast under broiler. 
Serve hot. 

Mrs. B. D. Warner. 

TURBOT A LA CREME 

Use what is left from the baked whitefish. Remove 
bones. Make a sauce of a pint of milk, a few sprigs of 
parsley and a slice of onion. Simmer until well flavored. 
Thicken with flour, mixed thoroughly with water, and stir 
in with butter the size of an egg. Season with one tea- 
spoon salt and one-quarter teaspoon pepper. Alternate 
fish and sauce in a baking dish, cover with rolled cracker 
crumbs and brown in a moderate oven. 

Miss Allie P. Armstrong. 

USES FOR STALE BREAD 

There are more uses for dry bread than there are for 
fresh bread. Do not throw good bread away or allow it to 
spoil in the breadbox. Where pieces are large enough, trim 
off crusts and cut into dice or long or triangular pieces. 
These can be dried on a plate in the oven, putting them in 
after the gas has been turned off. They will keep indefi- 
nitely in a pasteboard cracker box in a dry place. Use 
the dice for croutons in soup ; the fingers or triangular 
pieces instead of toast for a garnish for meats or stews. 
If something a little more crisp is liked, butter just before 
using and stand in oven till a golden brown. The trim- 
mings, crusts and other pieces should be dried in the oven 
(leftover toast can be used, if it is not buttered or burned), 



178 LEFT-OVERS 

and put through the food chopper, using the finest knife. 
These a.re an improvement in taste and appearance to 
many dishes. They are used for breading cutlets, cro- 
quettes, etc., and have the advantage over cracker crumbs 
of not absorbing grease to the same extent. If a very deli- 
cious covering is wanted for any ''au gratin" dish, put a 
level teaspoon butter on a plate, melt in oven, then stir 
in all the crumbs the butter will take. Place again in the 
oven till a golden brown. Cover the dish with this and 
stand again in the oven just long enough to heat through. 

Mrs. S. D. Snow. 

VINEGAR 

Good vinegar may be made from peelings and res- 
idue after canning by placing the pulp in a clean crock, 
cover with water and add about one-quarter vinegar with 
bacteria culture or "mother" in it. Cover closely and let 
stand about a month, stirring frequently. Strain and 
bottle. 

Mrs. S. D. Snow. 



MISCELLANEOUS 



CANDIED ORANGE STRAWS 

Boil for ten minutes in salted water, thinly peeled 
orange rinds, cut with sharp knife or scissors into straws 
about one-half inch wide. 

Drain, and boil in fresh water until transparent. Drain 
again. Have a heavy syrup of one-h^lf cup sugar and 
one-half cup water, boiled for four minutes; put in the 
drained orange straws, and stir until Avell coated. Dip out 
with fork on oiled plate, and when cool roll in granulated 
sugar. 

The water in which the peels were cooked, with the 
addition of some juice, makes a good pudding sauce or 
jelly. Add left-over syrup from straws. 

Mrs. S. D. Snow. 

DATE COFFEE 

Put one-half pound dates through food chopper, pour 
one cup hot water on them and let stand an hour, then 
mix with one quart hot milk. 

Mrs. E. T. Cooke. 

FONDANT 

White of one egg, six tablespoons of sweet cream. Stir 
in confectioner's sugar until it is a soft mass which can be 
handled without sticking to the fingers. This is the 
foundation for many varieties of candy. 

Mrs. Martin Madson. 



MISCELLANEOUS 181 

EGG-NOG 

Separate yolk and white of a very fresh egg. Put yolk 
in large china bowl with one and one-half teaspoons sugar, 
and any preferred flavor, Sherry is best, but lemon juice, 
vanilla, or orange juice are good. Do not use too much. 
Add a tiny pinch of salt to the white, and beat to an ab- 
solutely dry froth. Combine this with the flavored yolk, 
and beat until thoroughly mixed. Grate nutmeg or cinna- 
mon on top, if liked, and serve at" once. 

This may have one cup rich milk added, when fruit 
juice is not used. 

Mrs. S. D. Snow. 

FATS 

Fat is the greatest of energy foods. It gives us en- 
durance, and consequent ability to resist disease. Plain 
fat is most unpalatable, but properly seasoned, quite the 
reverse. It must be cooked at a comparatively low tem- 
perature. Its boiling point is higher than that of water, 
but its melting point is much lower than the boiling point 
of water. 

The chief reason why deep fat frying is considered so 
objectionable from a dietetic standpoint is because of the 
careless or ignorant cook. It is not wise to serve such 
foods too frequently, but no one can deny that their oc- 
casional appearance is w^elcome. 

The best fat for deep fat frying is a combination of 
beef fat and leaf lard or all beef fat. This is heavier than 
plain lard or the vegetable cooking oils, consequently does 
not penetrate the article cooked in it to the same extent. 
With proper care, it will keep indefinitely, and will not 
hold flavors. Procure two pounds of beef fat ( it should 
not be kidney suet), and one pound. unrendered leaf lard. 



182 MISCELLANEOUS 

Wash clean, skin, cut in small pieces, put in iron pot, or 
Dutch oven, cover with cold water, and cook over a low 
fire for two or three hours. It should then be completely 
tried out. Take from the fire and strain through a fine 
sieve or a cloth. This can be used indefinitely for deep 
fat frying if the straining process is repeated after 
use, and care taken not to burn it in the using. It is hot 
enough as soon as a blue smoke rises from the surface, and 
should not be allowed to get any hotter. Keep covered in 
a cool place. 

It is a great convenience to have this ready at any 
time. 

Mrs. S. D. Snow. 



GRAPE JUICE 

Wash and pick from the stems, Concord grapes. One 
basket at a time is easiest to manage. Cover with cold 
water, and put over the fire in granite preserving kettle. 
Cook, but not hard, till the seeds separate, and settle* to 
the bottom. Strain through a jelly bag, squeezing quite 
hard, and return to the fire, boil up, sweeten to taste, a 
little sweeter than is agreeable while hot. Have ready 
root beer bottles, well sterilized and hot. Have them 
standing in hot water, by the side of the kettle of hot 
juice. Fill the bottles through a sterilized funnel, very 
carefully at first, so as not to crack. Fill to overflowing, 
and immediately lay the top of the bottle over the juice 
to exclude the air; as the juice condenses, which it will 
do in a few moments, push the stopper further down, 
till it can be fastened. This must be done as soon as 
possible, but not too soon, or the bottom will be pushed 
out of the bottle. 

Mrs. S. D. Snow. 



MISCELLANEOUS 183 

MARSHMALLOW CRACKERS 

Put one-half marshmallow on a saltine cracker, put 
butter size of a pea on top of the marshmallow; set in 
medium hot oven until the marshmallow melts and is 
browTied slightly. 

Mrs. Charles J. Tonk. 

TO PREPARE FRESH COCOANUT 

Cocoanut has great food value. The easiest way to 
prepare is to puncture tw^o of the three eyes at one end, 
let the milk run out. Crack the shell, and score the meat 
through to the shell with a sharp paring knife, when it 
may be lifted out in cubes. Pare off inner shell, and drop 
pieces into cold water. Put through food chopper. It is 
then ready to use. Dried, and mixed with half its con- 
tent of sugar, it will keep well, but is best when fresh and 
soft. 

Mrs. S. D. Snow. 

TO PREPARE NUTS DAINTILY 

Shell, blanch and dry the nuts. Glace by dipping them 
in the unbeaten white of an egg. Sprinkle with fine salt 
and roast in oven until brown, stirring frequently. 

Mrs. John Sutcliffe. 

SUGARED HAZEL NUTS 

Two cups light brown sugar, one cup hazel nuts or 
quartered filberts, three-quarters cup water. Boil sugar 
and water till it forms a soft ball when tested in cold 
water. Remove from fire, add nuts, and beat until it 



184 MISCELLANEOUS 

begins to granulate. When cool enough to handle, break 
the nuts separately. 

Mrs. Alexander McLean. 

WHEN PLANNING A SOCIAL 

Proportions for Social: Many Avomen have no idea 
what quantity of provisions will be required for a Social. 
The following rule is one that is definite and a good one 
to keep. To serve fifty persons : Five loaves of home- 
made bread, two pounds of butter, four pounds boiled 
ham, for sandwiches. Two pounds of coffee, one pound 
of loaf sugar and two quarts of cream for coffee, and 
seven loaves of cake will be sufficient. 

Mrs. John Sutcliffe. 

CLEANING FLUID 

One quart deodorized benzine, one ounce alcohol, one- 
eighth ounce bay rum, one eighth ounce ammonia, one- 
eighth ounce chloroform, one-eighth ounce ether, one-eighth 
ounce oil of wintergreen, one-half dram borax. Filtered. 

Mrs. John R. Hollister. 



MISCELLANEOUS 185 



186 MISCELLANEOUS 



MISCELLANEOUS 187 



188 MISCELLANEOUS 



MISCELLANEOUS 189 



ESTABUSHCD 1875 B7 E.J. LEHMANN 








FT^ Grind Whole Wheat 

y^OyiE to our Seventh Floor Grocery 
\j ^ Section and select your own whole 
wheat; then have it ground in our de- 
partment with the old fashioned mill stone. 
You may choose either fine, coarse or medium 
wJieat and have it ground to your order. 

We use only the choicest, hard, clean 
wheat — and 

One Pound of Wheat 
Makes One Pound of Flour 



-J)IllllllltllllllllIIIIIIllinilIllllIllltllll!llllllllilllIlillllllllilllilltlIIIIIIMIIIIItlllllll)tllilll|HIIIIIllllltllll|lll 

I Milk Should Be Given Its | 

I Place in the Properly I 

I Balanced Meal \ 

I FN but one instance has Nature set ^ 

I * out to furnish something intended | 

i first and only as food, and that one I 

I article is milk. | 

I You, with every member of your family, should | 

I drink more milk. This ideal food contains proteid, i 

I sugar, fat and various salts, the elements needed to | 

|- support human life. | 

I First learn the quantity of milk your particular case | 

I will assimilate, then consume this quantity regularly, | 

I and where necessary make up the added cost by using | 

i less of something else. You are sure to be agreeably | 

I benefited by reason of the greater food- value this I 

I muscle-building, energy-providing, life-sustaining food | 

I carries. I 

I When you drink | 

I BORDEN'S MILK | 

= you have the pleasing satisfaction of knowing its purity = 

I is carefully guarded at every step, that it reaches you I 

I clean, fresh and wholesome, and by reason of the care | 

I in its production and preparation it is uniformly good | 

I and of superior flavor. - | 

I Start Today To Use More Milk | 

I You will be sure to be benefited because of | 

I it, and its use will help you to spend less. | 

^iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiMiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiir^ 



Ladies ' 
Tailoring 

RIDING 
HABITS 

FURS 

To Order Remodeled 

OTTO 

20 W. DIVISION STREET 

PHONE SUPERIOR 6417 



HOME 

Laundry Co. 




EDGEWATER 1673 



4611 Ravenswood Avenue 



''Of Pronoaiiced Merit'' 

Wm. Parker 
& Co. 

FANCY 
CLEANERS 
and DYERS 



4052 BROADWAY 

TELEPHONE LAKE VIEW 1378 




UNIVERSmr OF ILLINOIS-URBANA 



3 0112 083352259 



