•7/7/5 




006 802 777 9 



Conservation Resources 
Lig-Free® Type I 
Ph 8.5, Buffered 




^AR TIME 
COOKERY 



A Collection of Recipes that will not only 

Reduce the High Cost 
of Living 

But are Especially Adapted to 

WHEATLESS and 
MEATLESS DAYS 

Compiled and Published By 

THE CLUB MESSENGER 

421 North Trumbull Ave., Chicago 

Copyright, 1917, by Nellie C. Roberts 

Published, November. 1917 

. I 



..•.foreword 



♦♦♦♦ 



As the necessity of the hour is for wheat, and 
every patriotic citizen of the United States is 
anxious to do his or her share to save even the 
two bushels, which will save the life of a soldier 
in France, the all-important question is the easiest 
and best way to do it. 

It is to be done in the kitchens of America. 
It is true that a certain percentage of the popu- 
lation buy their bread, and wnll be taken care of 
by federal decree, but the vast majority of Amer- 
icans bake their own bread, and thousands who 
have heretofore bought their bread are now baking, 
for the first time in years. 

This is partly because the increased price of 
the factory loaf has made it worth their while, but 
the greatest reason, and the best one, is because 
they truly desire to help their beloved country by 
following the requests to save the wheat, that our 
soldiers may have enough strength to "go over the 
top." 

The women of America have not the slightest 
idea of allowing the world to say that because of 
their indifference, their negligence, their selfishness, 
this war may be lost. 

Even if it takes more time, more energy, more 
thought, the American women, "God bless them, 
every one," will rip^ht about face to the kitchen, 
there to fight the Hun, 

To Her is dedicated this slender sheaf of 
recipes, to aid in the battle. They are carefully 
gathered, from many friends and different sources, 
to whom thanks are hereby given. May they be 
an inspiration and a help in this hour of stress 
and need. /-«;: 

©CI,A47772t» 



NOV 26 ISI? 



mit 



(^ (p'^WAR COOKERY Page one 

"THE CLUB MESSENGER" HOMINY BREAD 
With White Flour and Potatoes 

Take two large potatoes and three cups of 
cooked hominy, boil until the potatoes are tender, 
and sift through a colander or potato ricer. Add 
enough water to make four cups of this liquid, 
one tablespoon of fat, and a scant tablespoonful 
of salt. Sugar, if you like it in bread, and one 
yeast cake, and enough white flour to make a 
sponge. This rises very rapidly, and when light 
enough, knead into a large loaf. When it has 
doubled in size, divide into four loaves, let rise 
again, and bake in moderate oven. It will keep 
moist for a week, and toasts beautifully. This 
quantity takes four pounds of white flour. 
The Club Messenger White Corn Meal War Bread 

Peel and wash two large potatoes ; boil same 
in two cups of v/ater, and when thoroughly cooked 
press through sieve; add enough water to potato 
water to make three cups of liquid, and add 
potatoes ; pour one cup of cold water over two 
cups white corn meal ; mix to a smooth paste and 
add same to the now boiling potato mixture ; add 
one tablespoon lard, two teaspoons salt, and one 
tablespoonful sugar; and boil slowly for 10 min- 
utes; dissolve one yeast cake in two tablespoonfuls 
luke warm water. When potato and meal mixture 
has partially cooled add yeast paste; stir in and let 
rise. When light rnake into large loaf with white 
flour ; let rise again and divide into four equal 
parts either in one large dripping pan or four small 
baking -ans. Let rise again, and when doubled in 
size, bake one hour in moderate ovon. 
Rye Bread 

Into four (,ups of luke warm water dissolve one 
yeast cake, one tablespoonful salt, two of sugar, 
and two of fat. Stir in two cups of white flour, 
and one cup ot mashed potatoes. When this sponge 
is light, add rye flour to make a firm loaf, not too 
stiff. Place in warm place to rise, and when it 
has doubled in bulk, make into four loaves, let 
rise again, and bake in moderate oven. 



Page two WAR COOKERY 



Oatmeal Bread 

Upon two cups of dry rolled oats pour four 
cups of boiling water. Stir thoroughly, and let it 
stand until cooled. Add one tablespoonful of salt, 
two tablespoonsful of sugar, and one of fat. Dis- 
solve one cake of Yeast Foam in half cup of water, 
add to the mixture, with enough white flour to 
make a sponge. Let this stand over night, and in 
the morning add enough white flour to nake a firm 
elastic loaf. When this doubles in bulk make into 
four loaves, and when these are light, bake one 
hour in moderate oven. 

Barley Bread 

1 cake yeast, 2 quarts potato water, 2 cups 
wheat flour, J4 cup lard, 2 teaspoons salt, 2 cups 
barley. 

Use wheat flour for sponge. Add the sugar, 
lard and salt to the sponge at night. 

Biscuic 

1 cup Red Dog flour, 1 cup white flour, 4 tea- 
spoons baking powder, 2 tablespoons shortening, 
Yt. teaspoon salt, ^ cup (about) milk or water. 
By the addition of spice and sugar, this makes a 
good foundation for Fruit Roll or quick Cofifee 
Cake. 

Mrs. Bley*s Johnny Cake 

To one cup white corn meal add one-half tea- 
spoon salt and about two cups boiling water, and 
cook about 5 minutes. Drop this mixture from a 
spoon into frying pan containing one or two table- 
spoons of hot fat, and brown both sides. Serve 
while hot and crisp 

Mrs. James A. Walkup's New England Bread 

Three cups of corn meal, one cup of flour, three 
cups of sour milk, one cup of molasses, one level 
teaspoon of soda, one-half teaspoon of salt. Steam 
three hours if baked in two-quart tins; steam about 
one hour if baked in quart tin pans. Then bake 
20 minutes. 



WAR COOKERY Page three 



HOMINY 

A Word About Hominy.— Get the dry hominy 
and cook it long and slowly. Two cups of dry 
hominy will make about two quarts when cooked. 
It is delicious with milk for a breakfast food, and 
one friend tells me that she fries it with bacon 
fat and a few green peppers for a luncheon dish. 
At the prize contest which the Council of National 
Defense held for the best pudding, the palm was 
awarded to the lady who gave a recipe for a 
pudding of dried apricots and hominy. 

Do not buy the canned hominy. It retails for 
12c per quart, and the dried article for 8c per lb. 
A pound of dry hominy will make a half gallon of 
the cooked product. It takes a little time, and not 
all stores handle the dried goods. But it can be 
had, and in your own neighborhood, if you look 
for it. 

Ways to Use Hominy 

Thoroughly heated and seasoned serve with 
milk and sugar as cereal. 

Fry three slices of bacon, crisp; remove from 
pan and add two cups of canned hominy. Season 
and let brown. Dice the crisped bacon and mix 
with the hominy before serving. Serve hot as the 
main breakfast dish. 

Prepare the same to serve in the place of pota- 
toes, only cook more bacon or ham and serve by 
placing the fried hominy in the center of the dish, 
arranging the meat around the mound thus made. 

A delicious way is to put the hominy through 
the food chopper. Mix it with one-fourth as much 
flour, season well and make into patties. Fry or 
saute in hot pure leaf lard. You have then a splen- 
did dish to serve in place of potatoes at any meal 
or as a pancake dish for breakfast with jelly or 
syrup, or as the main dish for luncheon. 

The ground hominy is splendid in soup. 

Heated in a well seasoned white sauce, hominy 
makes a highly nutritious vegetable dish. This 
may be nicely varied by substituting tomato puree. 

Use hominy en casserole with cheese and green 



Page four WAR COOKERY 



HOMINY 

peppers. Line the casserole with a thin layer of 
hominy. Sprinkle over it grated cheese and add 
a few shreds of green pepper. Repeat until dish is 
filled. Cover the top with crumbs. Add a cupful 
of milk and let bake until almost dry. 

A tasty casserole dish is also made by using 
left-over pieces of ham or bacon and tomato puree. 
Hominy With Cheese 

Macaroni is made of the finest grade wheat, 
and is therefore to be tabled for the present. Use 
hominy with cheese, just as you would macaroni, 
and you will be delighted with the result. 
Hominy and Hamburger 

Place one pound hamburger steak in a frying 
pan and stir while cooking, and just at the point 
when the juice comes out of the meat, add three 
cups of cooked hominy. Brown thoroughly; add 
salt and pepper to taste. Two green peppers cooked 
with this is an added zest. 

Hominy Desserts 

Hominy makes a fine d'^ssert, with dates, figs, 
prunes or raisins. Cook with plenty of water, and 
a very small amount of milk will be necessary, or 
it can be used without mlk. A tablespoonful of 
p-^anut butter improves the flavor, and adds to the 
food value. Put a layer of hominy in your baking 
dish, then a layer of dates, and another of hominy. 
Put one teaspoonful of peanut butter in a bowl, 
add a _ teaspoonful of water, and stir until the 
water is absorbed. Then add more water, stirring 
gently, until the butter is of the consistency of 
cream. Add one-half cup sugar, and pour over the 
hominy pudding, and bake one-half hour. Can be 
served hot or cold. 



Rice Waffles 

One cup cooked rice, two tablespoonsful of fat, 
one well-beaten egg. Add one cup flour, into which 
has been sifted two teaspoonsful of baking powder 
and one of salt. Beat thoroughly, and bake at once 
in well greased waffle-irons. 



WAk COOKERY Page five 

Com Bread 

Two cupfuls Indian, one cupful wheat, 

One cupful sour milk, one cupful sweet, 

One good egg that you will beat, 

Half a cupful molasses too, 

Half a cupful sugar thereto; 

With one spoonful of butter new, 

Salt and soda, each a spoon. 

Mix up quickly and bake it soon. 

Then you'll have Corn bread complete, 

Best of all Corn bread you'll meet, 

It will rnake your boy's eyes shine, 

If he's like that boy of mine. 

If you have a dozen boys 

To increase your household joys. 

Double then this rule you should. 

And you'll have two Corn cakes good. 

When you've nothing nice for tea, 

This the very best will be, 

All the men that I have seen 

Say it is of all cakes queen 

Good enough for any king 

That a husband home can bring. 

Warming up the human stove, 

Cheering up the hearts you love. 

And only "Tyndell" can explain. 

The links between corn bread and brain. 

Get a husband what he likes. 

And save a hundred household strikes. 



Spider Corn Bread 



H cup of corn meal, ^ cup of flour, 1 cupful 
sweet milk, Yz cupful sour milk, 1 ^z%y 1 table- 
spoonful sugar, 1 tablespoonful butter, J^ teaspoon- 
ful soda, Yz teaspoonful salt. Mix meal, flour salt 
and soda; beat egg and half the sweet milk and 
all the sour milk; stir this into the dry mixture; 
melt the butter in a hot spider; pour in the mix- 
ture; over this pour the remaining ^ cup sweet 
milk ; do not stir. This leaves a soft creamy top. 
Bake 20 minutes in moderate oven. 

-MRS. S. W. CURTISS 



Page SIX WAR COOKERY 

Mrs. William M. Towne's Missouri Com Bread 

1 level cup corn meal, 1 level cup flour, 4 table- 
spoonsful sugar, ^ teaspoonful salt, 1 heaping tea- 
spoonful baking powder, 2 eggs, 1% cups sweet 
milk, 1 heaping tablespoonful shortening. First 
light your oven, and put the shortening in your 
baking pan to melt. Then beat the eggs well, add 
the milk, and the dry ingredients sifted together, 
and last of all, the hot shortening, lightly beaten 
in. Pour into the hot baking pan, and bake 30 
minutes in a moderate oven. A delicious corn bread, 
if carefully made. 

Johnny Cake 

1 cup white flour, 1 cup Indian meal, H cup 
sugar, 2 tablespoonful salt, 1 cup sour milk, 2 table- 
spoonsful butter. Sift together dry ingredients, and 
mix quickly and lightly. Bake in moderate oven 
for 20 minutes. 

Mrs. George Washington Com Bread 

1 pint corn meal, 1 gill flour, 1 cupful boiled 
rice, 1 egg, 1 tablespoonful butter, 14 teaspoonful 
salt. Add 1^ pints of milk till all is a thin batter. 
Bake in a well greased pan and eat hot. 

-MRS. S. W. CURTISS 

Corn Dodgers 

The corn dodger is a quick bread and an in- 
expensive bread. It requires only twenty minutes 
for the making and baking. 

Here is a corn dodger recipe which has been 
used for a long time : 

Two cups of meal (white) 

One teaspoonful salt 

One tablespoonful of lard 

One egg 

One tablespoonful of milk. 
Mix the meal and salt together (dry), drop in 
the lard and pour over the mixture enough boiling 
water to wet the meal thoroughly. Beat the egg 
light, add the milk and stir into the batter. Beat 
together well. Drop on greased pans from a 
tablespoon and bake in a very hot oven for fifteen 
minutes. 



WAR COOKERY Page seven 



Indian Pudding 

We have plenty of corn and potatoes, so it is 
clearly our business to make use of them when- 
ever possible. Our grandmothers knew^ how to 
make delicious things of corn meal. There was 
what they called "Indian budding," which makes 
our mouth water when we think of it. The pud- 
ding was made with corn meal and milk, cooked 
until as smooth as velvet. It was seasoned with 
cinnamon, a tablespoonful of butter, and a pinch 
of salt. When cooled, two eggs were added, and 
seeded raisins, and the delicious compound was 
baked until firm, when it was served with real 
maple syrup. 

Com Meal Muffins. — One tgg, one cup sour 
milk, one level teaspoonful of baking soda and one 
of salt, one tablespoonful melted lard, one-half 
cup white flour, and yellow corn meal to make a 
stiff batter. Have your muffin tins well greased 
and very hot. This is what makes that nice- brown 
crust father likes so well. 



Regarding the Use of Sour Milk. — There is one 
thing you need in cooking that is never listed, and 
cannot be bought. That is Judgment, or as Aunt 
Abbie always said: "The common sense that is so 
uncommon." There is a natural affinity between 
corn meal and sour milk, but many cooks are 
afraid to use it, for fear the soda will be too much 
in evidence. Here is where you must use judg- 
ment. If the milk is merely turned, or clabbered, 
a half teaspoonful of soda is enough. If it is sour 
enough to separate, and this is a much better condi- 
tion, use a level teaspoonful of soda. Sour milk 
is a valuable aid in cookery, it makes much better 
cookies than sweet milk and baking powder, and 
should always be used in making fruit cake. Both 
will keep moist much longer than when baking 
powder has been used. 



f>age eight WAR COOKERY 



USE MORE FISH 

Besides our fresh fish which we may buy di- 
rectly from the dealer we have a great variety of 
canned fish which makes it possible for us to be 
always supplied in case we are living too far from 
market to obtain fresh meat and meat. Besides 
using these for emergencies, we find ourselves 
using canned tuna fish for salads, creamed dishes 
and croquettes almost every time we entertain ; 
and salmon used in loaves and chafing dish has a 
prominent place in our menus. 

Sardines are good at all times in salads and 
sandwiches and may be purchased either prepared 
in oil or tomato sauce. They may be fried, made 
into a delicious salad with cucumber, or served as 
an entree in toasted cups of bread. 

Tuna fish, which belongs to the same family 
as salmon, is a large fish which averages about 55 
lbs. in weight. Ten pounds of this fish is white 
meat resembling chicken, without bones, therefore 
it is called the "chicken of the sea." This fish is 
often served in creamed dishes, salads and cro- 
quettes. It is much like chicken when the fish oil 
is replaced by olive oil as is the case in the best 
brands of canned tuna. On opening the can no fish 
odor is noticeable. 

Shrimps are far more valuable as food than 
oysters, crabs or lobsters, and are solid meat. After 
the shield is removed they make delicious salads, 
cutlets, sauces and chowder. — Jean Prescott Adams. 



Salmon Loaf 



One tall can salmon — the pink is just as good 
for this — one cup milk, two cups cooked rice, one 
teaspoonful salt, and one-half teaspoonful pepper. 
Mix thoroughly, and bake thirty minutes. Serve 
in the baking dish, with a green pepper shredded 
over the top. 



WAI^ COOKERY ^age nine 

An Entree of Cottage Cheese Rolls 

Two cups of cottage cheese, 1 cup bread crumbs, 
cne-half cup left-over peas or beans. 

Mix cottage cheese and crumbs and combine 
with the peas or beans, which must be first mashed 
or put through a colander. The liquid from the 
vegetable may be used to moisten this mixture 
sufficient tc make into individual rolls. Place on a 
greased tin and bake fifteen minutes in s hot oven. 
Baste with a tablespoonful of beef extract dis- 
solved in a cup of boiling water in which a tea- 
spoonful of onion juice and a teaspoonful finely 
^.-hopped parsley has been added. 

Rice and Cheese Croquettes 

* Two cups cooked rice, one-half cup of grated 
cheese, one cup of white sauce. Mix well, and 
shape. Dip in egg, and roll in bread crumbs, fry 
in deep fat. 

White Sauce— One cup milk, one tablespoonful 
hour, one teaspoonful salt, one-quarter teaspoonful 
white pepper. Bring the milk to a boil, and add 
the other ingredients, stirring until it thickens. 



Philadelphia Scrapple 



Two pounds of neck bones, or spare ribs, and 
one pound of liver. Boil gently until the meat will 
slip from the bones. Chop fine, add one teaspoonful 
of salt, one teaspoonful of pepper. Strain the 
liquor to remove any particles of bone, add enough 
water to make two quarts, return the chopped 
meat, and bring to a boil. Thicken with yellow 
corn meal, and pour into mold to cool. After it 
is cold, slice thin, and fry. 

This frying is against the rules of the food 
administration. But try to get "ends" of salt pork 
and bacon at your market. These are the end 
slices which are unsaleable, and they^are excellent 
for seasoning, and furnish "drippings." 



Page ten WAR COOKERY 

Mock Mince Meat 

1 pint green tomatoes, 3 large apples, 1 tea- 
spoonful cinnamon, nutmeg or clove, 2 cups sugar, 
H cup vinegar, 2 tablespoonfuls flour. Wash, pick 
out faulty spots and grind tomatoes and apples in 
food chopper, saving the apple juice which will 
run from the chopper. Mix tomatoes, apples, juice, 
vinegar, spices and sugar, and cook about thirty 
minutes, after which add the flour mixed with a 
little water, and cook ten minutes longer. Let cool 
before using. This makes three medium sized pies. 
I make it by the gallon in the fall, for it does not 
require sealing, and the older it gets the better it 
is. It is most delicious served with whipped cream. 



Eggless Mayonaisse Dressing • 

One pint of milk, one tablespoon corn starch, 
one level teaspoon mustard, one-half teaspoon salt, 
<:ne-fourth teaspoon paprika, one teaspoonful but- 
terine, and one capsule of butterine coloring mat- 
ter. Bring the milk to the boiling point, dissolve 
the mustard, corn starch, salt and paprika in cold 
water, add to the boiling milk, then the butterine 
with coloring matter. Beat thoroughly. 



War Biscuits 

The California Club women contributed the fol- 
lowing recipe for a delicious war wafer to be 
served at teas and in combination with soft drinks: 

5 oz. oatmeal (not rolled oats) 5 oz. white corn 
meal, 3 oz. butter, 3 oz. sugar, 1 egg, 1 tablespoonful 
baking powder, a little milk if necessary. 

Thoroughly mix together the dry ingredients, 
then stir in the butter, which must be melted, and 
one egg well beaten. Work well with the hand 
until a stiff dough is formed. Roll out as thin as 
possible, cut into any desired shape and bake in 
rather a slow oven until a light brown. A little 
rice flour will be required to prevent sticking in 
rolling out. This recipe will make about thirty- 
five biscuits. 



WAR COOKERY Page eleven 



MEAT SUBSTITUTES 

Peanut Loaf 

1 cup ground peanuts or peanut butter, 1 cup 
fine bread crumbs, 1 teaspoon salt, 1 teaspoon 
chopped onion, 1 egg, ^ cup evaporated milk, ^ 
cup water. J^ethod: Mix, form into loaf, put it 
in tin and bake. Baste with peanut butter dis- 
solved in hot water. Serve with cream sauce. 

Mock Rarebit 

1 tablespoon oleomargarine, 2 tablespoons flour, 
milk to make a medium white sauce, 1 cup grated 
cheese, salt to taste. Method: Melt the cheese in 
the white sauce. Serve on triangles of hot toast. 

Rice Fritters 

2 cups cooked rice, 2 eggs, 1 teaspoon chopped 
onion, salt and pepper to taste, 1 tablespoon cracker 
crumbs, 1 teaspoon sweet pepper. Method: Mix 
ingredients and form into flat cakes and pan fry 
in bacon drippings. Serve with gravy made by 
dissolving one-half teaspoon of extract of beef in 
hot water and thicken as meat gravy. 

Turkish Pilaff 

Wash one cup of rice and cook in double boiler 
with one and one-half cups stock and three-fourths 
of a cup of tomatoes. When rice is tender, stir in 
three tablespoons of oleomargarine using a fork 
to prevent breaking grains of rice. Season to 
taste. 

Tomato Souffle 

Make a cream sauce with two tablespoons each 
of flour and oleomargarine and one cup diluted 
evaporated milk. Stir constantly till boiling, add 
a tiny pinch of soda, then one cup tomato puree. 
Cook two minutes. Add one cup of well cooked 
hominy, two tablespoons of melted oleomargarine, 
beaten yolks of three eggs, and last of all fold in 
the stiflly beaten whites of the eggs. Pour into a 
well buttered dish and bake until firm — about thirty 
minutes. 



Page twelve WAk COOlCEkY 



HEAT SUBSTITUTES 

Tomatoes Stuffed With Oysters 

As oysters are spoiled by overcooking, the toma- 
toes should be parboiled before filling with oyster 
mixture. If oysters are large, cut in halves. 
Moisten with cream sauce, top with buttered 
crumbs and bake. Serve with cream sauce in which 
are chopped oysters and bits of tomato pulp. 

Halibut a la Creole 

For four pounds of fish make the following 
sauce : One pint of stewed tomatoes, one cup 
water, a small onion sliced, six cloves, two table- 
spoons of butter, one tablespoon of "flour and salt 
and pepper. Put the tomatoes, water, onion and 
seasonings into a saucepan, rub oleomargarine and 
flour to a paste, and stir into when boiling. Cook 
five minutes and strain. Wash fish, place in baking 
dish and pour over three-fourths of the sauce, re- 
serving the rest to pour over when serving. Bake 
45 minutes. 

A Meat Flavor Dish 

1 lb. canned lima beans, >^ lb. smoked bacon, 
1 teaspoon salt, 1 teaspoon grated onion, J/^ tea- 
spoon of thyme, 1 egg, % teaspoon of paprika. 
Heat and cook the beans with bacon; drain and put 
through a food chopper when cold. Add the season- 
ing and the egg well beaten. Save a little of the 
egg to brush the tops. 

Brush custard cups with bacon drippings, and 
fill with the mixture. Brush the tops with the egg, 
and bake for thirty minutes in a moderate oven. 
Turn out. Serve with tomato sauce. 

Baked Bean Loaf 

One pint cold baked beans, one egg beaten, one 
cupful bread crumbs, salt and pepper, one table- 
spoonful finely minced onion and two tablespoon- 
fuls tomato catsup. Combine the ingredients, and 
shape the mixture into a loaf. Bake it for twenty- 
five minutes. Serve with strips of broiled bacon 
on the top. 



WAR COO KERY Page thirteen 

MEAT SUBSTITUTES 

Bean Loaf 

3 cups canned beans, ^ pound grated cheese, 
bread crumbs, onion to flavor if. liked. 

Method: Put beans through meat grinder, add 
cheese and salt and enough dry bread crumbs to 
form into a loaf; bake in moderate oven, basting 
with water and savory fat or drippings. Serve with 
tomato sauce in brown sauce made with extract of 
beef. 

Almond Loaf 

Two cupfuls of chopped or ground almonds, 
two cupfuls or dry bread crumbs, three table- 
spoonfuls of oleomargarine, one large onion, one 
small green pepper, three eggs, salt and pepper to 
taste, and white sauce to moisten. Put the onion 
and pepper through a meat chopper, place the oleo- 
margarine over fire, and when brown, add the onion 
and pepper. Stir until the whole is brown, then 
remove from the fire and combine with the nuts 
and bread crumbs, mix well, then add the eggs, 
well beaten and enough white sauce to moisten. 
Shape into loaf, place in buttered baking pan and 
bake about thirty minutes. Serve with tomato 
sauce or with a brown mushroom sauce. 

Codfish Balls 

1 cup cooked codfish, 2 cups mashed potatoes, 
1 tablespoon fat, J^ teaspoon pepper. Remove all 
bones from the codfish, pick in small pieces, add 
the potatoes and shape into flattened balls, roll in 
bread crumbs, and fry a deep brown on both sides. 
Serve hot and crisp. 

Creamed Codfish 

1 cup salt codfish, 2 cups milk, 2 tablespoonsful 
barley flour, 1 tablespoon fat. Bring the milk to 
a boil, add the flour dissolved in cold water and 
stir until smooth, add codfish, fat and pepper, and 
serve with baked potatoes. 



Page fourteen WAR COOKERY 



SOUPS 

The time-honored soup kettle of our childhood 
is again in good repute. The delicious soups of 
modern times have been such a convenience that 
now^, vs^hen we are trying to make one dollar do 
the work of two, we are more or less at a loss. 

A supply of good soup stock is more a matter 
of good management than money. There are al- 
ways little left-overs — a little gravy, a half-cup of 
peas, or turnips, or tomatoes ; a tablespoonful of 
breakfast cereal, that otherwise would be thrown 
away, that should find their way into the soup 
kettle. 

And there is nothing equal to a cup of hot soup 
to put one in good humor on a cold night. With a 
few bits of toasted "Club Messenger White War 
Bread," it will make the winter winds sound like a 
hymn of praise. 



War Soup 

One ten-cent soup bone, five-cent soup greens, 
five-cent split peas or beans, salt to taste. Boil for 
two or three hours. 

Split Pea Soup 

1 pound yellow split peas, 4 slices of onion, 1 
stick of celery (not a stalk, but a stick, or you can 
use celery leaves chopped, or you can omit), 3 
quarts of water, 2 slices bacon or salt pork (I buy 
bacon and salt pork ends — ten cents' worth — this 
is enough for two or three soups). 

Potato Soup 

Pare and slice 4 large potatoes, cook in 2 quarts 
of water, and salted a little, until well done. Fry 
together 1 slice bacon cut in small pieces, Yz onion 
cut fine, and 1 tablespoon of flour. Put this in soup 
for flavor. 

-MARIE C. SADLER 



WAR COOKERY Page fifteen 



War Fruit Cake 

Boil together for five minutes 2 cups of brown 
sugar, 2 cups of raisins, 2 cups of boiling water, J.^ 
teaspoon of salt, 2 heaping tablespoons of lard, 1 
teaspoon cinnamon, 1 teaspoon cloves. Nuts if de- 
sired — % cup of chopped nuts. When this is cool, 
add 1 teaspoon of baking soda dissolved in hot 
water, 3 cups of flour (sifted), 1 teaspoon of baking 
powder. Bake in a slow oven for one hour. 

This cake keeps like fruit cake, and is better 
when two or three days old. 

With no eggs, milk or butter — Mrs. David Kohn. 
Oatmeal Cookies 

Boil together 1 cup strong coffee, 1^ cups 
brown sugar, 1 cup fat, 1 tablespoonful salt, 2 
tablespoonsful cinnamon, 1 tablespoonful ginger, 
1 cup raisins, 1 cupful tart apple sauce, Yi cup 
orange peel. When thoroughly dissolved, remove 
from fire, and stir in 2 cups rolled oats, and let 
cool. Then add the following: 1 egg, well beaten; 
fill up the cup with sour milk in which is dissolved 
1 teaspoonful soda ; add 1 cup white flour, in which 
is sifted 1 teaspoonful baking powder. 

The cookies should be stiff. Bake in moderate 
oven. These improve with age. Nuts may be added 
if desired. 

Spice Cake 

y2 cup shortening, ^ cup milk, 1 cup brown 
sugar, 1^ cups Red Dog flour, 1 cup raisins, 2 tea- 
spoons baking powder, Y^ teaspoon cinnamon, ^ 
teaspoon cloves, ^/< teaspoon nutmeg, 2 eggs well 
beaten. Bake in mufiin' tins. Raisins may be 
omitted, and sour milk and soda substituted for 
sweet milk and baking powder. 

Steamed Corn Bread 

One quart yellow corn meal, one teaspoon salt, 
<"horoughly dampened with boiling water, added a 
vv^ee bit at a time ; one tablespoonful butterine, well 
mixed ; one cup sour milk, in which is dissolved 
(>ne teaspoonful baking soda. When ready to steam, 
it should be a very thick batter. Steam two hours, 
and slice thin. This is equally good baked. 



Page sixteen WAR COOKERY 



Ginger Drops 

Cream together % cup shortening- or home 
rendered fat, l^ cup sugar, ^ cup molasses, ^ cup 
Red Dog flour, % cup white flour, ^ teaspoon salt, 
3/2 teaspoon cinnamon, 1 teaspoon ginger, sifted 
together. Add part of this to first mixture, then a 
well beaten egg or 2 yolks, and balance of flour 
i.lternately with two thirds cup boiling water in 
which a scant teaspoon soda has been dissolved. 
Beat well, pour into well greased mufiin pans, bake 
in rather slow oven 25 minutes. 

Barley Biscuits 

3 cups sifted barley flour, 1 teaspoon salt, 3 
tablespoons lard or other fat, 1 cup milk, 3 tea- 
spoons baking powder. Prepare as for baking 
powder biscuits. 

Spice Cake 

Yi. cup oleomargarine, 1 cup sugar, 1 cup sour 
milk, 1 teaspoon cloves, 1 teaspoon cinnamon, ^ 
cup citron, 1 ^^^, 1 teaspoon alspice, 1 teaspoon 
nutmeg, 2^ cups barley flour, y-2. teaspoon soda, 3 
teaspoons baking powder, 1 cup raisins, 2 table- 
spoons molasses. 

Barley Steamed Pudding 

1 cup rnolasses, 1 cup sour milk, 1 egg, 1 cup 
chopped raisins, 1 teaspoon soda, ^ cup corn meal, 
1 cup barley flour. 

Barley Doughnuts 

1 cup milk, 1 cup sugar, 2 eggs, 5^ cups barley 
flour, 2 teaspoons baking powder, 4 tablespoons 
lard (melted), y2 teaspoon salt. Yx teaspoonful each 
of cinnamon and cloves. 



LIBRARY OF CONGRESS 

m 

006 802 777 9 # 





006 802 777 9 



Conservation Resources 
Lig-Free® Type I 
Ph 8.5, Buffered 



LIBRARY OF CONGRESS 




006 802 777 9 



