MILITARY MEDICAL MANUALS 

GENERAL EDITOR; 

SURGEON-GEN, SIR ALFRED KEOGH 
H aC,B M.D., F, R.C.R 




SYPHILIS 

ND THE ARMY 

G.THIBIERGE 

EDITED BY 

C,E MARSHALL 



MILITARY MEDICAL MANUALS 

GENERAL EDITOR: 
SIR ALFRED KEOGH, G.C.B., M.D., F.R.C.P. 



SYPHILIS AND THE ARMY 



T 



SYPHILIS AND THE 
ARMY 



BY 

G. THIBIERGE 

Surgeon to the Saint-Louis Hospital 



EDITED BY 

C. F. MARSHALL, M.D., F.R.G.S, 




LONDON 

UNIVERSITY OF LONDON PRESS, LTD. 

18 WARWICK SQUARE, E.C.4 

1918 



GENERAL INTRODUCTION 

THE infinite variety of injuries which any war presents 
to the surgeon gives to military surgery a special interest 
and importance. The special interest and importance, 
in a surgical sense, of the great European War lies not 
so much in the fact that examples of every form of gross 
lesion of organs and limbs have been seen, for if we read 
the older writers we find little in the moderns that is 
new in this respect, but is to be found in the enormous 
mass of clinical material which has been presented to us 
and in the production of evidence sufficient to eliminate 
sources of error in determining important conclusions. 
For the first time also in any campaign the labours of 
the surgeon and the physician have had the aid of the 
bacteriologist, the pathologist, the physiologist, and 
indeed of every form of scientific assistance, in the solution 
of their respective problems. The clinician entered upon 
the great war armed with all the resources which the 
advances of fifty years had made available. If the surgical 
problems of modern war can be said not to differ sensibly 
from the campaigns of the past, the form in which they 
have been presented is certainly as different as are the 
methods of their solution. The achievements in the field 
of discovery of the chemist, the physicist and the biologist 
have given the military surgeon an advantage in diagnosis 
and treatment which was denied to his predecessors, and 
we are able to measure the effects of these advantages 
when we come to appraise the results which have been 
attained. 

But although we may admit the general truth of these 
statements, it would be wrong to assume that modern 
scientific knowledge was, on the outbreak of the war, 
immediately useful to those to whom the wounded were 



vi GENERAL INTRODUCTION 

to be confided. Fixed principles existed in all the sciences 
auxiliary to the work of the surgeon, but our scientific re- 
sources were not immediately available at the outset of the 
great campaign ; scientific work bearing on wound problems 
had not been arranged in a manner adapted to the require- 
ments indeed, the requirements were not fully foreseen ; 
the workers in the various fields were isolated, or isolated 
themselves, pursuing new researches rather than con- 
centrating their powerful forces upon the one great quest. 

However brilliant the triumphs of surgery may be 
and that they have been of surpassing splendour no one 
will be found to deny experiences of the war have already 
produced a mass of facts sufficient to suggest the complete 
remodelling of our methods of education and research. 

The series of manuals, which it is my pleasant duty to 
introduce to English readers, consists of translations of 
the principal volumes of the "Horizon " Collection, which 
has been appropriately named after the uniform of the 
French soldier. 

The authors, who are all well-known specialists in the 
subjects which they represent, have given a concise but 
eminently readable account of the recent acquisitions to 
the medicine and surgery of war which had hitherto been 
disseminated in periodical literature. 

No higher praise can be given to the Editors than to 
say that the clearness of exposition characteristic of the 
French original has not been lost in the rendering into 
English. 



MEDICAL SERIES 

The medical volumes which have been translated for 
this series may be divided into two main groups, the first 
dealing with certain epidemic diseases, including syphilis, 
which are most liable to attack soldiers, and the second 
with various aspects of the neurology of war. The last 
word on Typhoid Fever., hitherto " the greatest scourge 
of armies in time of war," as it has been truly called, will 
be found in the monograph by MM. Vincent and Muratet, 
which contains a full account of recent progress in bac- 



GENERAL INTRODUCTION vii 

teriology and epidemiology as well as the clinical features 
of typhoid and paratyphoid fevers. The writers combat 
a belief in the comparatively harmless nature of para- 
typhoid and state that in the present war haemorrhage 
and perforation have been as frequent in paratyphoid, as 
in typhoid fever. In their chapter on diagnosis they 
show that the serum test is of no value in the case of 
those who have undergone anti-typhoid or anti-para- 
typhoid vaccination, and that precise information can be 
gained by blood cultures only. The relative advantages 
of a restricted and liberal diet are discussed in the chapter 
on treatment, which also contains a description of serum- 
therapy and vaccine-therapy and the general manage- 
ment of the patient. 

Considerable space is devoted to the important question 
of the carrier of infection. A special chapter is devoted 
to the prophylaxis of typhoid fever in the army. The 
work concludes with a chapter on preventive inoculation, 
in which its value is conclusively proved by the statistics 
of all countries in which it has been employed. 

MM. Vincent and Muratet have also contributed to the 
series a work on Dysentery, Cholera and Typhus which 
will be of special interest to those whose duties take them 
to the Eastern Mediterranean or Mesopotamia. The 
carrier problem in relation to dysentery and cholera is 
fully discussed, and special stress is laid on the epidemio- 
logical importance of mild or abortive cases of these 
two diseases. 

In their monograph on The Abnormal Forms of 
Tetanus, MM. Courtois-Suffit and Giroux treat of those 
varieties of the disease in which the spasm is confined to 
a limited group of muscles, e.g. those of the head, or one 
or more limbs, or of the abdomino-thoracic muscles. 
The constitutional symptoms are less severe than in the 
generalised form of the disease, and the prognosis is more 
favourable. 

The volume by Dr. G. Thibierge on Syphilis and the 
Army is intended as a vade mecum for medical officers 
in the army. 

Turning now to the works of neurological interest, 
we have two volumes dealing with lesions of the peripheral 



viii GENERAL INTRODUCTION 

nerves by Mme. Athanassio-Benisty, who has been for 
several years assistant to Professor Pierre Marie at La 
Salpetriere. The first volume contains an account of 
the anatomy and physiology of the peripheral nerves, 
together with the symptomatology of their lesions. The 
second volume is devoted to the prognosis and treatment 
of nerve lesions. 

The monograph of MM. Babinski and Froment on 
Hysteria or Pithiatism and Nervous Disorders oj a 
Reflex Character next claims attention. In the first 
part the old conception of hysteria, especially as it was 
built up by Charcot, is set forth, and is followed by a 
description of the modern conception of hysteria due to 
Babinski, who has suggested the substitution of the term 
" Pithiatism," i.e. a state curable by persuasion, for the 
old name hysteria. The second part deals with nervous 
disorders of a reflex character, consisting of contractures 
or paralysis following traumatism, which are frequently 
found in the neurology of war. and a variety of minor 
symptoms, such as muscular atrophy, exaggeration of 
the tendon reflexes, vasomotor, thermal and secretory 
changes, etc. An important section discusses the future 
of such men, especially as regards their disposal by 
medical boards. 

An instructive companion volume to the above is to 
be found in the monograph of MM. Roussy and Lhermitte, 
which embodies a description of the psychoneuroses met 
with in war, starting with elementary motor disorders 
and concluding with the most complex represented by 
pure psychoses. 

SURGICAL SERIES 

When the present war began, surgeons, under the 
influence of the immortal work of Lister, had for more 
than a quarter of a century concerned themselves almost 
exclusively with elaborations of technique designed to 
shorten the time occupied in or to improve the results 
obtained by the many complex operations that the genius 
of Lister had rendered possible. The good behaviour 
of the wound was taken for granted whenever it was 



GENERAL INTRODUCTION ix 

made, as it nearly always was, through unbroken skin, 
and hence the study of the treatment of wounds had be- 
come largely restricted to the study of the aseptic variety. 
Septic wounds were rarely seen, and antiseptic surgery had 
been almost forgotten. Very few of those who were called 
upon to treat the wounded in the early autumn of 1914 
were familiar with the treatment of grossly septic com- 
pound fractures and wounded joints, and none had any 
wide experience. To these men the conditions of the 
wounds came as a sinister and disheartening revelation. 
They were suddenly confronted with a state of affairs, 
as far as the physical conditions in the wounds were 
concerned, for which it was necessary to go back a hundred 
years or more to find a parallel. 

Hence the early period of the war was one of earnest 
search after the correct principles that should be applied 
to the removal of the unusual difficulties with which 
surgeons and physicians were faced. It was necessary 
to discover where and why the treatment that sufficed 
for affections among the civil population failed when it 
was applied to military casualties, and then to originate 
adequate measures for the relief of the latter. For many 
reasons this was a slow and laborious process, in spite of 
the multitude of workers and the wealth of scientific 
resources at their disposal. The ruthlessness of war must 
necessarily hamper the work of the medical scientist in 
almost every direction except in that of providing him 
with an abundance of material upon which to work. It 
limits the opportunity for deliberate critical observation 
and comparison that is so essential to the formation of an 
accurate estimation of values ; it often compels work to 
be done under such high pressure and such unfavourable 
conditions that it becomes of little value for educative 
purposes. In all the armies, and on all the fronts, the 
pressure caused by the unprecedented number of casualties 
has necessitated rapid evacuation from the front along 
lines of communication, often of enormous length, and this 
means the transfer of cases through many hands, with 
its consequent division of responsibility, loss of continuity 
of treatment, and absence of prolonged observation by 
any one individual. 



x GENERAL INTRODUCTION 

In addition to all this, it must be remembered that 
in this war the early conditions at the front were 
so uncertain that it was impossible to establish there 
the completely equipped scientific institutions for the 
treatment of the wounded that are now available under 
more assured circumstances, and that progress was thereby 
much hampered until definitive treatment could be under- 
taken at the early stage that is now possible. 

But order has been steadily evolved out of chaos, and 
many things are now being done at the front that would 
have been deemed impossible not many months ago. 
As general principles of treatment are established it is 
found practicable to give effect to them to their full logical 
extent, and though there are still many obscure points to 
be elucidated and many methods in use that still call for 
improvements, it is now safe to say that the position of 
the art of military medicine and surgery stands upon a 
sound foundation, and that its future may be regarded 
with confidence and sanguine expectation. 

The views of great authorities who derive their knowledge 
from extensive first-hand practical experience gained in 
the field cannot fail to serve as a most valuable asset to the 
less experienced, and must do much to enable them to 
derive the utmost value from the experience which will, 
in time, be theirs. The series covers the whole field of 
war surgery and medicine, and its predominating note 
is the exhaustive, practical and up-to-date manner in 
which it is handled. It is marked throughout not only 
by a wealth of detail, but by clearness of view and logical 
sequence of thought. Its study will convince the reader 
that, great as have been the advances in all departments 
in the services during this war, the progress made in the 
medical branch may fairly challenge comparison with 
that in any other, and that not the least among the 
services rendered by our great ally, France, to the common 
cause is this brilliant contribution to our professional 
knowledge. 

A glance at the list of surgical works in the series will 
show how completely the ground has been covered. Ap- 
propriately enough, the series opens with the volume on 
The Treatment of Injected Wounds, by A. Carrel and 



GENERAL INTRODUCTION xi 

G. Dehelly. This is a direct product of the war which, 
in the opinion of many, bids fair to become epoch-making 
in the treatment of septic wounds. It is peculiar to the 
war and derived directly from it, and the work upon which 
it is based is as fine an example of correlated work on 
the part of the chemist, the bacteriologist and the clinician 
as could well be wished for. This volume will show many 
for the first time what a precise and scientific method the 
" Carrel treatment " really is. 

The two volumes by Professor Leriche on Fractures con- 
tain the practical application of the views of the great Lyons 
school of surgeons with regard to the treatment of injuries 
of bones and joints. Supported as they are by an appeal 
to an abundant clinical experience, they cannot fail to 
interest English surgeons, and to prove of the greatest 
value. It is only necessary to say that Wounds of the 
Abdomen are dealt with by Dr. Abadie, Wounds of the 
Vessels by Professor Sencert, Wounds of the Skull and 
Brain by MM. Chatelin and De Martel, and Localisation 
and Extraction of Projectiles by Professor Ombredanne and 
R. Ledoux-Lebard, to prove that the subjects have been 
allotted to very able and experienced exponents. 

ALFRED KEOGH. 



EDITOB'S PKEFACE 

AN increase in the prevalence of venereal diseases 
appears to be an almost inevitable consequence of 
war. In the present war, it is difficult to determine 
whether the actual percentage of venereal disease is 
higher in the Army than it was before the war, owing 
to the fact that the number of men under observation 
is vastly augmented, so that the increase may be more 
apparent than real. However, in spite of this possible 
source of fallacy, most observers are agreed that there 
is a real increase in the incidence of these diseases in 
the populations of the countries engaged. The chief 
factors concerned in the spread of venereal disease 
are well described by Dr. Thibierge in the present 
volume. 

As regards the treatment of syphilis, Dr. Thibierge 
rightly insists on the importance of continuing treat- 
ment in a milder form after the initial intensive course, 
which he aptly terms the " treatment of attack." 
Since the modern treatment of syphilis by salvarsan 
was introduced, this fact is not sufficiently well under- 
stood, many patients being under the impression that 
they are cured after one course of arsenical and 
mercurial injections. 

With regard to the choice of methods and prepara- 
tions, it will be noted that Dr. Thibierge favours in- 
travenous injections both of mercury and arsenic, 
employing the cyanide of mercury and novarsenobenzol. 
Although all are agreed that the first course of treat- 
ment should be energetic, and that it gives the best 

xiii 



xiv EDITORS PREFACE 

results when instituted at the earliest possible date, 
opinions differ considerably as to the relative merits 
of the different modes of administration, both of 
mercury and arsenic. In the British Army the 
routine treatment has hitherto consisted in intravenous 
injections of one of the " substitutes " for salvarsan, 
combined with intramuscular injections of mercury 
in the form of grey oil. The different preparations 
of arsenobenzol, all more or less similar to the original 
salvarsan and neosalvarsan, each has its own 
advocates. 

Recently, intramuscular or subcutaneous injections 
have been said to give as good results as intravenous 
injections, and, if this is the case, this method is to be 
preferred, as it is simpler in technique and less liable 
to cause severe after-effects. With regard to mercury, 
the most powerful mode of administration is still 
probably that by inunction, although this is almost 
impossible to carry out when dealing with large numbers 
of men. Hence, intramuscular injections of grey oil, 
which are only given once a week, are more practic- 
able if less efficacious. The intravenous injection of 
mercury has not now many supporters. 

Lastly, as to the ultimate results of the modern 
treatment of syphilis. 

It is too early yet to determine the fate of the 
syphilitic treated by the new arsenical preparations. 
All we can judge are the immediate results. Energetic 
initial treatment is no doubt the best means of render- 
ing men fit for service again in the shortest possible 
time ; but the proportion of these who will suffer 
later on from tertiary or quaternary manifestations, 
such as aortic disease and aneurism, tabes and general 
paralysis, remains to be seen. 

C. F. MAESHALL. 

August 1917. 



CONTENTS 



PAQB 

INTRODUCTION xix 



CHAPTER I 
FREQUENCY OF SYPHILIS IN THE ABMY . . . 1 

CHAPTER II 
ON THE ORIGIN OF SYPHILITIC CONTAGION IN THE 

ARMY 7 

CHAPTER III 

SYPHILIS AS A NATIONAL DANGER . . . .16 
Syphilis amongst the Civil Population since the 

Beginning of Hostilities . . . .16 
The Social Consequences of Syphilis amongst 
Soldiers .... 21 

CHAPTER IV 

SYMPTOMS AND DIAGNOSIS OF THE SYPHILITIC LESIONS 

MOST COMMONLY OBSERVED IN THE ARMY . 34 

Syphilitic Chancre ...... 34 

Diagnostic Elements of Syphilitic Chancre . 43 

Diagnostic Importance of the Objective Signs . 43 
b xv 



xvi CONTENTS 

PAGE 

Diagnostic Value of the Signs drawn from the 

Evolution of the Chancre .... 45 
Signs drawn from the Patient's Antecedents, or 
from the Appearance of Symptoms of Secondary 

Syphilis 45 

Indications supplied by Laboratory Researches . 47 

Differential Diagnosis of Syphilitic Chancre . 55 

Extra-genital Chancres 66 

Secondary Syphilis 70 

General Phenomena ..... 70 
Cutaneous Lesions . . . . . .71 

Syphilitic Alopecia 79 

Lesions of the Nails 80 

Lesions of the Mucous Membranes ... 80 

Lesions of the Pharynx . . . . . 82 

Visceral Affections 83 

Generalities of Tertiary Syphilis ... 86 



CHAPTER V 

TREATMENT OF SYPHILIS . . . . .89 

The Special Conditions of the Treatment of 

Syphilis in the Army. .... 89 

Mercury 91 

Mercurial Medication by Ingestion ... 92 
Mercurial Medication per Rectum . . .97 
Endermic Administration . . . .98 
Intramuscular Administration of Mercury . 98 
Technique of Intramuscular Injections . . 105 
The Intravenous Administration of Mercury . 106 

Arsenic . 110 

Arsenobenzol 110 



CONTENTS xvii 

PAGB 

Novarsenobenzol . . . . . .113 

The Vehicle for Injections of Novarsenobenzol . 114 
The Effects of Novarsenobenzol on Syphilitic 
Manifestations . . . . . .117 

In what Doses should Novarsenobenzol be in- 
jected ? 123 

Periodicity of the Injections . . . .126 
The After-effects of Concentrated Injections of 

Novarsenobenzol 126 

The Serious Accidents of Arsenobenzol and Nov- 
arsenobenzol 128 

Other Arsenical Preparations .... 134 
Association of Mercury and Arsenic . . .136 
Scheme for the Treatment of Syphilis in the Army 

at the Different Periods of Infection . .139 

Period of the Chancre 140 

Secondary Period ...... 142 

Continued Treatment 147 

CHAPTER VI 

TECHNIQUE OF INTRAVENOUS INJECTIONS . .150 

Instruments 150 

Mode of Operation ...... 153 

Operative Accidents 159 

Precautions to be taken after Intravenous Injec- 
tions of Cyanide of Mercury . . . .161 
Precautions to be taken after Intravenous Injec- 
tions of Novarsenobenzol . . . 162 



CHAPTER VII 
HYGIENE OF SYPHILITIC SOLDIERS . 164 



xviii CONTENTS 

CHAPTER VIII 

PAGE 

PROPHYLAXIS 167 

Necessary Precautions for preventing the Trans- 
mission of Syphilis by infected Men . .167 
Isolation of Syphilitic Carriers of Contagious 
Lesions ....... 168 

Medical Inspection . . . . 169 

Syphilitics and Hospital Treatment . . .171 
Post-hospital Treatment and Supervision . . 177 
Measures for preventing Healthy Men from con- 
tracting Syphilis . . . . .180 

Instruction of Men with Regard to Venereal 

Danger 180 

Personal Precautions 186 

Creation of Centres for the Treatment of Syphilis 

amongst the Civil Population . . . 188 
The Supervision of Prostitution . . . 192 

INDEX 203 



INTRODUCTION 



IT seemed to the Editors of the Collection, and also to 
me, that a place should be found for syphilis, con- 
sidered in its relations to the Army and the present 
war. 

The frequency of this infection in the Army, among 
men in munition works, and among the civil popula- 
tion with whom soldiers and munition workers associate, 
makes it at the present time a veritable epidemic 
disease, and one of the most widespread of epidemic 
diseases. 

Contrary to the majority of diseases contracted in 
the Army, syphilis is one of long duration, its effects 
being felt by the patient for many years, and by his 
descendants for many more. It has a disastrous 
influence upon the birth-rate, infant mortality, and the 
qualities of the race, and is one of the chief factors 
in depopulation. 

It is always a social disease, and should be more 
considered by public authorities than has been the case. 
At the present time, when, more than ever before, 
France must do all in her power to check the scourge 
of depopulation, and when, not only must she repair 
the terrible losses in men resulting from the war, but 
also effect an intensive repopulation, so as to have 
healthy, vigorous contingents of soldiers ready to meet 
any fresh aggression and retain her place amongst the 
premier nations, no efforts must be spared to guarantee 
the number and quality of her children. 

six 



xx INTRODUCTION 

More than ever, therefore, it is a social duty for all 
public authorities, as well as medical men, to combat 
by all possible means this powerful destroyer of children, 
this cause of degeneration of the race. 

In order to do this, two methods must be combined : 
the one, exclusively the province of medical men, con- 
cerns the treatment, and I may add, the energetic 
treatment, of syphilis, especially at its onset; the 
other, of medical, hygienic, and administrative nature, 
designed to prevent the propagation of the disease. 

Certainly, it is necessary to cure syphilitics, but it is 
better still to prevent the development of the disease. 
Prevention is better than cure, says the wisdom of 
nations. 

In this struggle against the propagation of syphilis 
a large share falls on the medical man ; he can do 
much by himself, the military surgeon especially, in 
preventing men from contracting syphilis, by his per- 
sonal influence, both moral and medical. It is, above 
all, the duty of the public authorities, both civil and 
military, to prevent it. But, in order that this ad- 
ministrative and police struggle should be undertaken 
under rational and useful conditions, the authorities 
need the concurrence and enlightenment of the medical 
man. He alone can throw light upon the dangers of 
syphilis and its modes of transmission, explain to the 
heads of the great public services the general measures 
to be taken, and show the lesser authorities, munici- 
palities and local police, and the heads of the different 
military units, how general measures may be applied 
in different localities and small communities, and 
adapted to the necessities of time and place. 

I hope to contribute to this work, to take my part 
in this social duty, by exposing the modes of propaga- 
tion of syphilis, and its danger, so as to furnish the 
medical men, who have to advise the authorities, with 
precise information and clear arguments in order to 
enlighten them. 



INTRODUCTION xxi 

On the other hand, the treatment of syphilis has 
undergone considerable changes within the last six 
years. The new methods are not yet well known to 
all medical men ; certain details may have escaped 
them, or they may have forgotten them. It is oppor- 
tune, therefore, to review the different ways of treating 
syphilis, specify their indications, and describe their 
technique, which is sometimes delicate and always 
important, if accidents are to be avoided. 

But, before treating a patient, it is necessary to know 
what is the matter with him. Since my clinic at the 
Saint-Louis Hospital has been put under military con- 
trol, I have had the opportunity of proving, not only 
amongst the patients in hospital, but also in those sent 
to me for examination by the Medical Service, how 
frequently doctors are in doubt about venereal diseases 
and make errors in diagnosis. 

Very often these uncertainties and errors are due to 
the difficulty of diagnosis, often delicate, of syphilitic 
chancre, and the impossibility of the military doctor 
with a regiment to have recourse to the means of 
control furnished by the laboratory : this can only 
be avoided by a medical man skilled in the practice 
of syphilology and supplied with adequate scientific 
apparatus. 

But also why should it not be said ? it often 
happens that doctors have not received sufficient 
instruction with regard to venereal diseases, or have 
forgotten what they learned. 

It has, therefore, seemed necessary to me to repeat 
with some detail the characteristics and diagnostic 
elements of syphilitic manifestations with special 
reference to the syphilitic lesions most frequently 
observed in the Army syphilitic chancre and secondary 
lesions. 

Further, within recent years new methods of examina- 
tion and more precise facts as to the characteristics of 
some of these lesions have been introduced into practice 



INTRODUCTION 

and require to be described, while, at the same time, old 
diagnostic points are recalled to the memory. 

As a matter of fact, this small volume, intended above 
all to combat the syphilitic scourge, contains, I hope, 
all that is necessary for the medical man to enable 
him to perform the medical part of his anti-syphilitic 
work. It will also supply him with the elements of 
extra-medical advice, which he may have to give to 
the civil and military authorities, with a view to the 
prophylaxis of this disease. 

My ambition is that it may be at least a practical 
guide, a vade-mecum of syphilology for the use of 
military doctors. 



SYPHILIS AND THE 
ARMY 

CHAPTER I 

THE FREQUENCY OF SYPHILIS IN THE ARMY 

ALL great movements of population wars, pilgrim- 
ages, exhibitions induce a recrudescence of con- 
tagious diseases in general. Venereal diseases in 
particular always become more frequent in time of 
war. 

During the wars of the Revolution * venereal mor- 
bidity was estimated at a fourth of that of the entire 
army. 

The present war, owing to the immensity of the 
armies engaged, its long duration, and the large num- 
bers of men mobilised in munition works, seems likely 
to leave all previous wars far behind, as regards the 
frequency of venereal diseases. 

Up to the present the statistics of the belligerent 
forces are unknown f ; and, in any case, they could 

* See Spick, " Scabies and Venereal Diseases in the Annies of 
the Revolution and of the Empire" (Annales de dermatologic, 
October, 1908, p. 593). 

f Balzer (" Prophylaxis and Treatment of Venereal Diseases in 
Time of War," Presse medicale, October 14, 1915, p. 40) reports 
that, according to German statistics going to the end of February 
1915, the German troops at this period, in Belgian territory alone, 
had already had 30,000 cases of venereal disease, whereas in the 
war of 1870-71 the total number of venereal cases had been 32,528, 
viz. 70 '6 per 1 ,000 of the sick in hospital. 

1 



2 SYPHILIS AND THE ARMY 

give but a feeble conception of this frequency, for they 
are most incomplete, for several reasons : 

In the first place, medical inspection of men with 
the colours is not carried out with sufficient rigour 
to obtain accurate figures, for divers reasons. 

And, on the other hand, it is not only amongst the 
fighting units that venereal diseases are to be found ; 
they occur also amongst convalescent soldiers, as well 
as amongst munition workers, who, from the health 
point of view, must be regarded as soldiers. 

Consequently, syphilis is frequently seen in the base 
hospitals, without precise statistics being procurable : 
many of these centres do not report the venereal cases 
treated, others ignore them. Patients suffering from 
gonorrhoea or syphilis gladly take advantage of their 
leave to obtain treatment unknown to the doctor in 
charge, and often go to quacks. 

As regards munition works, despite the most laud- 
able efforts, medical supervision is most inadequate. 
As the result of various unfortunate influences, in 
the majority of cases, even a brief medical visit is not 
made, and, there is no doubt, a large number of venereal 
patients conceal their malady, and are either badly 
treated or not at all, to their own disadvantage and to 
the still greater detriment of society in general. 

As far as I have been able to judge, from personal 
experience and from conversations with numerous 
military surgeons, as well as those attached to the 
dermato-venereological military staff, the frequency 
of gonorrhoea has been markedly increased since the 
war, especially in certain regions. Mauriac has shown 
that simple chancre has a tendency to increase at a 
time of any great shifting of population, but its occur- 
rence does not appear to be above the average. 

As regards syphilis, with which I am alone con- 
cerned here, in the opinion of every one, it has increased 
notably since the beginning of the war, and there 
appears to be almost constant augmentation. 



FREQUENCY OF SYPHILIS IN THE ARMY 3 

As I have already stated, statistics give but a very 
incomplete idea of this, because they only comprise 
the cases observed in the military hospitals, and many 
escape notice ; further, in order to appreciate this 
augmented frequency, it would be necessary to obtain 
statistics made before the war in the same communi- 
ties. But pre-war communities have been modified, or 
rather, one might say, turned upside down by mobilisa- 
tion ; army corps in time of peace in no way resemble 
our regiments at the front, as regards composition, 
and there was nothing comparable to munition works 
in the industrial works of 1913. 

The opinions of syphilologists are much more valu- 
able than statistics. The unanimous opinion is that 
the frequency of syphilis is much greater at the present 
time than during the periods preceding the war : all 
my colleagues in Paris and the provinces, when con- 
sulted on this subject, agreed as to this. 

I shall now merely give some statistics : 

Gaucher,* out of 2,457 soldiers treated at his clinic 
from August 1914 to December 1915, for cutaneous 
or venereal affections, recorded 277 cases of recent 
syphilis, and, amongst 88 soldiers in the out-patient 
department, 24 cases of recent syphilis. 

In the same clinic, from January 1st to July 31st, 
1914, out of a total of 2,295 patients, he observed 
276 chancres or recent syphilis in round figures 300 
cases of recent syphilis amongst 3,000 patients ; and 
from August 14th, 1914, to December 31st, 1915, in 
the same clinic, 4,912 patients, both civil and military, 
amongst them being 793 cases of recent syphilis say 
800 out of 5,000 patients. 

* Gaucher, " Venereal Diseases during the War in the Villemin 
Hospital and in its Annexes " (Bulletin de I' Academic de Medecine, 
March 28th, 1916, p. 352). 

Gaucher and Bizard, " Statistics of Syphilis contracted by Soldiers 
since Mobilisation and treated in the Clinic of the Hospital St. Louis, 
August 1914 December 1915 " (Annales des maladies veneriennea, 
March 1916, p. 129). 



4 SYPHILIS AND THE AEMY 

If these two statistics given are translated into 
centesimal proportions, out of the total of cutaneous 
and venereal patients, they represent 12% of venereal 
patients before the war and 16% since the war, there- 
fore an increase of 4% or of J, which is certainly less 
than the reality and does not convey an exact idea. 

In a clinic of cutaneous and venereal diseases in a 
colonial army corps, out of a possible effective force 
of 60,000 men, Rousseau * treated 27 cases of syphi- 
litic chancre, from March 12th to July 1st, 1916, 
which corresponds to 89 cases of contamination in a 
year, and there is reason to believe that he did not see 
all the cases. 

The statistical material of venereal diseases in the 
French Army has only been collected since the year 
1916, and for variable periods for the three venereal 
diseases. The adjoining table, compiled from informa- 
tion given me by the kind permission of Mr. Justin 
Godard, Under-Secretary of State Health Service to the 
Minister of War, gives the number of contaminations 
reported month by month by the medical men of the 
various sanitary departments. 

As regards syphilis, this table shows the oscillations 
which occur in the frequency of the disease, and of 
the results of the prophylactic measures prescribed ; 
but it does not by any means comprise all the syphilitic 
contaminations which occur in a military population, 
for several reasons. Despite the orders given, a con- 
siderable number of hospitals do not furnish detailed 
reports ; while, on the other hand, large numbers of 
syphilitic chancres are unrecognised, as the result of 
the insufficiency of the medical visits paid to the regi- 
ments and depots ; others are treated unknown to the 
regimental doctors. Further, these statistics only 
include patients who were admitted to hospital for a 
syphilitic chancre and, in order to prevent errors and 

* Rousseau," Treatment and Prophylaxis of Syphilis in an Army 
Corps" (Presse medicale, October 23rd, 1916). 



FREQUENCY OF SYPHILIS IN THE ARMY 5 

double entry, no record has been made of those patients 
who, on admission, showed secondary affections, their 
chancre having been unperceived, or unrecognised for 
one cause or another. Therefore, under the heading of 
simple chancre, a large number of mixed chancres are 
hidden, the syphilitic phase of which has escaped the 
statistics. 
Finally, these statistics only include the troops 

VENEREAL CONTAMINATIONS BELIEVED IN THE ARMY TROOPS AND ox 
THE LAND. 





Gonorrhoea. 


Simple 
Chancre. 


Syphilis. 


Total of venereal 
contamination!. 




3f 


II 


1 


j? 


II 


i 


si 


II 


i 


|| 


II 


1 




M"< 


^3 


EH 


1 


^2 


EH 


IH 


^J3 


EH 


M-< 


^2 


4 










5 


















January, 1916 




















250 


1,210 


1,460 








''ebmary 


1,018 


3,416 


4,434 











321 


1,206 


1,527 








larch 


641 


3,257 


3,898 











170 


843 


1,013 








Ipril 


553 


2,434 


2,987 


71 


331 


402 


192 


660 


852 


816 


3,421 


4,241 


lay 


337 


3,210 


3,547 


54 


457 


511 


161 


753 


914 


552 


4,420 


4,972 


une 
uly 


569 
475 


3,000 
3,068 


3,569 
3,543 


82 
64 


428 
459 


510 
523 


169 
189 


787 
794 


956 
983 


820 

728 


4,215 
4,321 


5,035 
5,049 


LUgUSt 


414 


3,578 


3,992 


18 


417 


435 


131 


998 


1,129 


563 


5,124 


5,687 



Note. For the months of January and February, the number of cases of 
yphilis in the Army includes not only patients in hospital with syphilitic 
hancre, but also those suffering from secondary affections ; in the interior 
Lnce the Army started, note has only been made of those patients in hospital 
rith syphilitic chancre. 

present with the colours ; no account is taken of the 
men mobilised in munition works. Up to the present 
there is, unfortunately, no record of the cases of 
syphilis among them ; and these, from personal obser- 
vations and the confirmation of numerous doctors, 
appear to be of enormous frequency. 

For all these reasons, interesting as are the statistics 
of venereal diseases among the troops, in that they 
enable us to follow the variations of venereal con- 



6 SYPHILIS AND THE ARMY 

tamination, and appreciate the results of prophylactic 
measures, they give but a very incomplete idea of the 
frequency of syphilis amongst a military population. 
If it were possible to register the total number of con- 
taminations, this would, I believe, work out at 4,000 
to 5,000 per month, say 50,000 to 60,000 per annum, 
which for three years of war would make 150,000 to 
180,000 contaminations. 

Pau trier, chief of the venereological centre of the 
eighth district (Bourges), in February 1916, observed 
724 cases of primary or secondary syphilis amongst 
hospital patients, or those who came to consult him. 
This centre had only been worked from the month of 
September 1915, that is, for the period of six months. 

" If one considers," he says,* " that the venereo- 
logical centre, unfortunately, does not yet receive all 
the cases of syphilis in the district, a certain number 
of patients being wrongly detained in general or regi- 
mental hospitals, while others suffer from syphilis 
unrecognised by the medical man or concealed by the 
patient, and if one must admit without exaggeration 
that this calculation, to be correct, should be mul- 
tiplied by 4 or 5, one sees what an impressive total 
would be reached in the eighth district alone. By 
multiplying this number by that of twenty other 
territorial districts and adding the very considerable 
figure of the army zone, it is possible to conceive that 
the cases of syphilis contemporaneous with the war 
will not be reckoned by tens of thousands, but by 
hundreds of thousands." 

He considers that 200,000 syphilitics will be a highly 
probable number. 

* Pautrier, " On the General Organisation of Military Venereal 
Hospitals and of the Annexed Services." Report presented at 
the Meeting of the Heads of the Venereological Centres, held 
July 13th, 1916 (Annales de dermatologie, September 1916, p. 233). 



CHAPTER II 

ON THE ORIGIN OF SYPHILITIC CONTAGION IN THE ARMY 

As may be supposed, the origins of syphilitic con- 
tagion in the Army are multiple. 

It is frequently difficult to determine them. All 
patients do not lend themselves to investigation with 
equal readiness : some have contracted syphilis under 
circumstances which they do not care to divulge ; 
others refuse, from a spirit of chivalry, to denounce 
the woman who accorded them a favour, whether 
gratuitous or paid for ; some, on account of drunken- 
ness, are unable to give either place, time of meeting, 
profession, or colour of the hair of their temporary 
partner ; while others, again, have had so many and 
such frequent adventures with different women that 
they are unable to blame one more than another. 

Despite the difficulties of the inquiry, a certain 
number of soldiers have replied to the questions with 
apparent veracity, and medical men have been able to 
obtain information of sufficient accuracy. 

Some of these inquiries have been published, and 
they contain a sufficient number of names to be of 
value, especially those of Jolivet and Carle. 

Take first Joh'vet's * inquiry, which contains a list of 
the first 100 venereal patients treated in an infectious 
hospital in the army zone, and the information he 

* ,T olivet, " Origin of the Contamination of 100 Venereal Patients 
treated in the Army Zone" (Annales de dermatologie, May 1916, 
p. 126). 

7 



8 SYPHILIS AND THE ARMY 

was able to obtain as to the manner of their con- 
tamination. 

Syphilis. Gonorrhoea. Simple Chancre. 
I. Official Prostitution, 52% 

Houses .... 16 10 

Meeting-houses . . 1 

Licensed prostitutes .9 14 2 
II. Clandestine Prostitution, 48% : 

Dressmakers . 1 

Laundresses . 1 1 
Married I Publicans . . 1 

Women Profession unknown 2 2 

Legitimate wives 3 13 
Refugees . . 2 

Legitimate mistresses . 1 1 

Laundresses ... 3 2 

Work- women ... 2 4 

Waitresses in caf^s 1 4 
III. Category Undetermined . 1 
IV. Extra-genital Contagion (?) 1 

{1 in army. 
1 in hos- 
pital. 

Carle * has obtained statistics giving the mode of 
contamination of 291 men observed in the venereolo- 
gical centre of an army. 

These two statistics are particularly interesting, 
because they both of them treat of contaminations 
incurred as much in the army zone as in the interior ; 
thus allowing comparison of the mode of syphilitic 
dissemination in two entirely different centres. 

The following statistics, prepared by Madame 
Govaerts with scrupulous accuracy, record 165 syphi- 
litic men observed in my clinic in the St. Louis Hospital, 
from February 15th to August 15th, 1916, and in these 
cases it was possible to trace the origin of contamination. 

* Carle, " Three Months' Work in the Dermatological and Venereo- 
logical Sections of an Army Ambulance. Statistical and critical 
study" (Archives de Medecine et de Pharmaciemilitaires, June 1916, 
p. 865). 

Carle, " Prophylaxis of Venereal Diseases in the Army. Measures 
taken, Measures to be undertaken." Report at the Meeting of the 
Heads of the Venereological Centres, July 13th, 1916. (Annalet 
des maladies vtntricnnes, September 1916, p. 536.) 



SYPHILITIC CONTAGION IN THE ARMY 9 

The statistics refer to both military and civil patients; 
I thought it better to combine them in the same table, 
in order to show that, in the interior, the majority 
of syphilitic contaminations are due to prostitution, 
amongst the civil as well as amongst the military 
population. 

It is interesting to determine the source of syphi- 







Army Zone. 


Interior. 




General 








Total. 


















Total. 


Gonorrhoea. 


Syphilis. 


Total. 


Gonorrhoea. 


Syphilis. 


Legitimate wives 
















(to their hus- 
















bands) 


12 


1 


1 





11 


7 


4 


Married women 
















(towns women 
















and farmers' 
















wives) . 


43 


31 


24 


7 


12 


7 


5 


Work-women . 


24 


14 


8 


6 


10 


5 


5 


Servants and 
















cooks . 


13 


5 


3 


2 


8 


5 


3 


Farm-girls, or 
















girls met on 
















farms . 


17 


15 


8 


7 


2 


2 





Waitresses 


33 


12 


7 


5 


21 


6 


15 


Landladies 


78 


17 


10 


7 


61 


40 


21 


Professionals, 
















either licensed 
















or clandestine 


71 


18 


14 


4 


53 


40 


13 


Total . 


291 


113 


75 


38 


178 


112 


66 



litic contagion separately in the different military 
classes : soldiers at the front, those in the depots and 
sedentary services, and men mobilised in munition 
works. 

Men at the front may be contaminated either in 
the Army or the interior ; statistics show that they 
become affected much more frequently in the interior 
than in the army zone. 



10 



SYPHILIS AND THE ARMY 



SOURCE OF CONTAMINATION IN 165 SYPHILITIC PATIENTS OBSERVED 

IN MY CLINIC 
(February 15th to August 15th, 1916) 









ft 43 


Patient 


Patient 









Class of Patients. 


i 


Eessionals 


nmetinr 
it s or hot 


could not 
or would 
not give in- 
formation. 


denied 
extra- 
conjugal 
utercourse. 


rkwomen. 


1 


Wives or mis- 
tresses with 
whom patient 
had lived for 




j 


s 


I 3 


Probable contamination 


o 




a long time. 




o 


PH 


II 


by professionals. 




1 




Military 


31 


20 


I 


2 


1 


3 


3 


1 (wife) 


Mobilised workmen 


21 


12 


1 


2 


3 


2 





1 (mis- 


















tress) 


Rejoined 


37 


22 


1 


3 


1 


4 


3 


3 (mis- 
tresses) 




rl6 to 20 years of age . 


24 


15 


2 








6 


1 




._ 


3 of 20 


















*> 


7 19 


















li 


8 18 


















8"" & 


4 17 


















2 
1 

5 s . 


2 16 

20 to 50 years of age . 


42 


28 


1 


5 


1 


4 


1 


1 (wife) 


"o - 


Half of these are of 
















1 (mis- 


gj 


foreign nationality 























tress) 




50 to 73 years of age . 


10 


2 





3 


2 


2 


1 




^"fi 


7 of 50 to 60yrs. of age 


















o w 


1 64 


















H 


1 66 




















U 73 


















Total 





99 


6 


15 


8 


21 


9 


7 



Jolivet, whose inquiry yielded 100 cases of venereal 
disease, observed in an infectious hospital near the 
front, gives the following table : 



Syphilis. Gonorrhoea. 



Men contaminated in the 
army zone (24%) 

Men contaminated in the 
interior (76%) . 



11 

In the 
depots . 24 
On leave 8 



11 

13 

29 



Simple 
Chancre. 



Carle, out of 291 men under observation in the 
venereological centre of the Army (see Table on page 9), 
takes 178, i.e. 61%, as having been contaminated in 



SYPHILITIC CONTAGION IN THE ARMY 11 

the interior. In a series of 238 cases, more recently 
observed, he counts 170 contaminations coming from 
the interior, i.e. 71%. 

In adding together the totals of these three statistics, 
out of 629 cases of venereal disease, 524 contagions are 
from the interior, i.e. 73' 6%. 

Tzanck has communicated the following statistics to 
me ; they were obtained in a military venereal centre, 
and bring more evidence to bear upon the part played 
by prostitutes in syphilitic contamination at the base. 

Syphilis contracted 
At the Front. At the Base. 

Free prostitutes . . 6 140 

Landladies 



Servants 
Married women 
Legitimate wives 



2 



Total 8 157 

Hence, soldiers at the front most frequently contract 
syphilis in the interior, either in the depots before 
returning to the front, or when on leave. 

Men on leave have various opportunities of con- 
tracting venereal disease : from the moment of quitting 
their unit they pass through towns in the military 
zone where syphilis is rampant, and stop at railway 
and transport junctions, often in Paris, where the 
station approaches are seething with women of all kinds. 
Jolivet, out of 100 patients, cites no less than 6 cases 
(2 syphilis, 4 gonorrhoea) contracted from women near 
railway stations by men passing through the towns. I 
have heard authoritatively that men have even been con- 
taminated in the train taking them on leave by women 
who walk the trains and succeed in escaping observation. 

At the place of destination there are various sources 
of contagion : barmaids, waitresses, laundresses, and 
work-girls give themselves up to clandestine prostitu- 
tion ; there is also the mistress who, abandoned on 
mobilisation, has since taken one or more lovers. Men 



12 SYPHILIS AND THE ARMY 

who have been mobilised longest sometimes incriminate 
their wives : medical men at the front cannot verify 
the accuracy of the statements of their patients, and, 
despite the number who assert that their wives have 
contaminated them (16 in Jolivet's statistics, 11 in 
Carle's), may be sceptical. Facts observed in the 
interior, of women infected in the absence of their 
husbands, and dreading to infect them when on 
furlough, leave no doubt as to the reality and re- 
latively large number of these contagions. Indeed, 
it has occasionally been possible to examine the 
husband when on subsequent leave, and make an 
accurate inquiry into the evolution of the two infec- 
tions with syphilis. I myself have seen more than 
forty absolutely authentic cases. 

In the army zone, contamination mostly emanates 
from women whose business brings them in contact 
with soldiers : restaurant keepers, barmaids, laun- 
dresses to whom the men send their washing on 
returning to quarters ; seamstresses, who mend their 
clothes, as well as farm-girls met near camp, or in the 
open country. Often the women are married (31 out 
of 113 contaminations in the army zone, according 
to Carle's statistics), town or country women; these 
latter are almost as numerous as professionals, regis- 
tered or clandestine, free or in houses, mentioned in 
the same statistics (35 professionals as against 32 
married women). 

To sum up, in the army zone, venereal diseases are 
transmitted more often by women who are not pro- 
fessional prostitutes than by official or clandestine 
prostitutes living solely by their bodies. If one could 
separate the contaminations occurring in large towns 
and at the base from those occurring in the army zone, 
the part played by true prostitution in the dissemina- 
tion of syphilis and venereal diseases in the immediate 
neighbourhood of the front would be very considerably 
diminished. 



SYPHILITIC CONTAGION IN THE ARMY 13 

In the Table published by Carle a suggestive com- 
parison may be made of venereal contaminations by 
professionals, according to whether these were produced 
in the army zone or in the interior ; in the latter they 
give 114 contaminations out of 178, i.e. 64%, and in 
the army zone 35 out of 113, i.e. 31%, or less than half. 

There is, therefore, a danger to soldiers in women 
who are apparently most innocent, and the importance 
of this cannot be exaggerated. I even heard some 
military surgeons say that every woman in the war 
zone ought to be watched, and that no social position 
should prevent the suspicion of syphilis from being 
traced to its lair. Proportionally as the war is pro- 
longed, the opportunities for these women contracting 
syphilis will be multiplied, with consequent increase in 
the dangers run by the troops. 

Syphilis is very irregularly distributed in the different 
bodies of troops, and I could cite such and such a 
regiment in which the number of cases of syphilis is 
at the lowest, although, and perhaps because, medical 
inspection is made regularly and carefully. In others, 
on the contrary, syphilitic morbidity is high. These 
inequalities, for the greater part, are due to the 
sanitary condition of the women with whom the men 
have intercourse : owing to the small number of 
women living near the front zone, it only requires a 
few of them to become syphilitic for contamination to 
multiply with extreme rapidity. Equality amongst 
the different bodies of troops, in this respect, tends to 
re-establish itself by the movements of the men on 
furlough. 

In the base zone, on the other hand, contagion origin- 
ates especially with professional prostitutes who swarm 
in the large towns * in search of soldiers quartered 

* L. Spillman (" On the Increase of Syphilitic Morbidity among 
Troops on Active Service," Comptes rendus de la Societe de Medecine 
de Nancy, December 22nd, 1915) has noted the increase in the 
number of prostitutes at Nancy. This has also been reported to 
me from all the large towns near the front. 



14 SYPHILIS AND THE ARMY 

in these towns, and with other women brought there 
by their duties, or passing through when on furlough. 
For some time there has not been one of these large 
towns in which syphilis has not made an incessant 
advance ; statistics are wanting as to the sanitary 
condition of these towns, but the declarations of both 
civil and military surgeons, and the afflux of syphilitic 
women into the hospitals, prove it abundantly. It is 
in these towns that the most rigorous supervision of 
both official and clandestine prostitution should be 
exercised. 

The risks of contamination in the base zone explain 
why syphilis is extremely frequent amongst men staying 
there, or who have easy access ; such, for example, as 
the staffs of aviation camps, motor-drivers, secretaries 
of the general staff, amongst whom a high proportion of 
syphilitic cases have been observed by the medical men. 
In the depots and sedentary services, the sources of 
contamination are similar to those noted with men on 
leave. They are, as in times of peace, but in higher 
degree, prostitutes of all kinds. Statistics of my 
clinic show that, out of 31 syphilitic soldiers, 20 had 
been contaminated by avowed professionals, and 3 
others also probably by professionals. In these 20 
contaminations it was always a case of solicitation, 
especially around the Paris railway-stations and near 
the depots. We thus come to a proportion of 64, or 
perhaps 70% of infections by prostitutes. Comparing, 
in the same statistics, the round numbers (civil and 
military combined) of cases observed (165) with those 
of the contaminations emanating from professionals 
(which extend certainly to 99, and probably to 122), 
a similar percentage is reached, which shows that 60 
and probably 73% of the contaminations are due to 
professionals. 

Meetings take place on the public highway, near the 
Paris railway stations, in military centres, at depots, 
concerts, cinemas, etc. 



SYPHILITIC CONTAGION IN THE ARMY 15 

For men mobilised in munition works, the habitual 
source of syphilitic contagion is also the prostitute, at 
least in Paris. In provincial towns, it is more likely 
to be caught in the workshop : the promiscuity of the 
sexes entailed by the necessities of work, and more 
especially its inspection (women being inspected by 
foremen) facilitates more or less durable liaisons, with 
resultant contaminations. It is noteworthy that a 
certain number of pre-war prostitutes, whose clientele 
had been reduced by mobilisation enrolled themselves 
amongst munition workers. It has been stated that, 
in a large provincial town, the majority of certified 
prostitutes were engaged in munition work , their wages 
increasing the profits, reduced by war, of prostitution, 
which they continued to practise with their fellow- 
workmen. 

Non-venereal contaminations occur in the Army ; 
the proximity of the trenches and camps, the common 
interchange of mugs, forks, pipes, etc., are sufficient 
to explain these. Cuts from the improvised barber's 
razor, often a poor one, may also produce syphilitic 
infection. 

As a matter of fact, however, despite inadequate 
precautions, such contaminations appear to be rare 
in the Army. 



CHAPTER III 

SYPHILIS AS A NATIONAL DANGER 

THERE is no exaggeration in stating that the present- 
day frequency of syphilitic contamination constitutes 
a danger of the first importance, which will have an 
influence upon the nation quite as considerable as that 
of the most deadly epidemics.* This danger can only 
be compared to that of tuberculosis, against which it 
is justifiable to take the most rigorous and expensive 
precautionary measures. 

Before showing of what these dangers consist, the 
modes by which the propagation of syphilis under- 
mines the national defence, compromises the vitality 
of the nation, racial vigour, and the repopulation of 
France, it may be well to complete the picture of 
syphilis in this country and to sketch rapidly its present 
effect on the civil population. 

SYPHILIS AMONGST THE CIVIL POPULATION SINCE THE 
BEGINNING OF HOSTILITIES 

In the preceding chapter I indicated the frequency 
and origin of syphilis in the Army, and the influence 
of the civil upon the military environment. 

Like all contagious diseases, and more especially for 

* This is no new danger, nor is it the result of the present war 
alone. Landouzy (" Syphilis before the War. Disregard of its 
extreme Frequency," Bulletin de I'Academie de Medecine. Meeting 
of April 18th, 1916, p. 434) has shown with great force and appro- 
priateness that it has long been in existence, and has remained un- 
suspected by far too many. 

16 



SYPHILIS AS A NATIONAL DANGEE 17 

the majority of them, endemic syphilis in the Army 
does not limit its effects to the soldiers themselves, but 
has an immediate and extensive repercussion upon the 
civil population. The conditions of syphilitic trans- 
mission explain, without further detail, this exchange, 
which is far too free. Let us see how this influence of 
a military centre affects civil life. 

Here, again, available statistics are wanting. Syphi- 
litic morbidity of different social districts in times of 
peace is subject to variations, difficult to disentangle 
from a rough accumulation of figures, and these social 
centres have been upset by the war. The influx of 
refugees has modified the population, especially the 
number of those attending the hospitals ; the utilisa- 
tion of female labour has changed the composition of 
workshops, causing an influx of women of restricted 
means, forced by the war to earn their own living. What 
can I say further ? In the hospital clinics the propor- 
tion of syphilitic cases recently reported, among the 
total number in hospital, would seem to indicate an 
increase of syphilis ; but the conditions of admission 
to hospital of cutaneous affections are quite different 
to those of peace time : refugees are sent to hospital for 
benign diseases which would have been treated at home ; 
patients suffering from chronic affections have left 
hospital to work, etc. The result is, without counting 
that the diminution in number of medical students does 
not allow of the collection of all facts from the hospital 
statistics, that these statistics do not contribute ele- 
ments of certainty to the study of the increase of 
syphilis. 

It is imperative, therefore, to abide by the impres- 
sions of medical men ; and all declare that syphilis 
has increased, not only specialists, but general practi- 
tioners as well. 

Brocq * wrote in January, 1916 : "I shall not, in 

* Brocq, " The Influence of the Present War on Cutaneous 
Affections" (Bulletin medicale, January 22nd, 1916, p. 111). 

2 



18 SYPHILIS AND THE ARMY 

this note, insist upon the heartrending frequency of 
venereal diseases, and the terrible increase in syphilis 
since the beginning of hostilities : my sole occupation 
to-day will be cutaneous affections properly so-called, 
and yet I cannot state too emphatically that the true 
aspect of our clinics during the war is dominated by 
the deplorable prevalence of syphilis." 

A very distinguished doctor, belonging to an 
Accidental Insurance Company, Dr. Borne, recently 
informed me that, whereas before the war he rarely 
saw one patient a month in whom he could find a 
trace of venereal disease, syphilitic eruptions, mucous 
plaques, gonorrhceal arthritis, etc., at the present 
time he comes across three to four per week. 

There is no doubt that, in a general way, the number 
of cases of recent syphilis has increased amongst the 
civil population since the war, and there is evidence 
of still further advance. I repeat, this is the result 
observed, from the discussions I have had with a 
number of medical men, all of whom have confirmed 
these statements. 

This does not apply specially to Paris ; it has been 
observed by all medical men I have questioned, both 
in large centres and small localities. 

Indeed, not only is the increase of syphilis observed 
in Paris and large towns ; it has also been noted in 
small towns and localities soon after a military influx 
(near the front, in training camps, especially quarters 
at the base, in the rest billets, depots for troops, 
motor and aviation centres, hospitals, etc.), and among 
munition workers. It is even relatively perhaps more 
important in small localities than in big towns, where 
syphilis has always been present. 

There are two civil classes especially in which this 
augmentation has been surprising : amongst married 
women and young men. 

All medical men at special hospitals have noted 
that the number of married women who come to 



SYPHILIS AS A NATIONAL DANGER 19 

consult them for syphilitic troubles is altogether 
abnormal, and out of proportion to what occurred 
in time of peace. 

I learn from Louis Spillmann that the number of 
married women in hospital at the Nancy free venereal 
clinic, which in 1914 was 5, with 1 syphilitic, had in 
1916 risen to 43, with 23 syphilitics. 

Of these women, some contracted syphilis from a 
civilian of some kind, a man recalled to the colours, 
or too old for military service, or from a refugee met 
by accident in the workshop or the street ; here, 
there is no difference from what is seen in time of 
peace. Others have contracted the disease from men 
at the depots, munition workers, soldiers on leave or 
under treatment in the hospitals. 

These two classes comprise women of varying 
morality, some of whom only had recourse to extra- 
conjugal relations as a means of augmenting their 
incomes, which had been reduced since the departure 
of their husbands. 

By the side of these are the women contaminated by 
their husbands home on leave, or returned home after 
being discharged wounded. These women are un- 
doubtedly syphilitic owing to the war, and they are 
numerous : not a single day passes without two or 
three, and sometimes more, presenting themselves 
at St. Louis Hospital for consultation. They are of 
all ages, sometimes young ; a large number of them 
have no suspicion of what they are suffering from, 
and no idea of the nature of the sore throat, roseola, 
or alopecia for which they are seeking advice. They 
are ignorant of syphilis and its contagion, and, as a 
rule, it would never occur to them to blame their 
husbands ; it is only on inquiry that the medical 
man, when hearing the history of the illness, verifying 
dates, and, finding when the husband came home on 
leave, has traced it to its source, this being confirmed 
later by the statement or examination of the husband. 



20 SYPHILIS AND THE ARMY 

I repeat, these facts are legion ; I myself having seen 
above a hundred cases. 

Here, again, mention must be made of the munition 
workers. As I have already stated, and again repeat, 
an enormous proportion of these men are syphilitic, 
and, despite every possible advice, many of them take 
no care of themselves at all. The result is the frequent 
contamination of their wives, whether these live at a 
distance or have remained with their husbands. I 
have already seen a large number of married women 
whose husbands, munition workers, had infected them. 

All these women, respectable mothers of families, 
sometimes pregnant or having been recently con- 
fined, are totally ignorant of syphilis, or of the fact 
that they may contaminate their children. On several 
occasions I have seen two or three children brought 
to me suffering from chancres transmitted to them by 
their mothers this would be an exceptional occurrence 
in peace time, when the majority of syphilitic women 
treated in hospital know how to account for their illness. 

Another fact which has struck all medical men is 
the frequency of syphilis in young men since the war 
began. There is no day in which several do not 
come up for consultation ; at the St. Louis Hospital, I 
myself never see less than two or three at each con- 
sultation, from 16 to 18 years of age. They have 
generally contracted the disease from some woman 
met in the street, the suburbs, or on the outer boule- 
vards. There is little doubt that they have listened 
to her solicitations : won't they soon be soldiers, and 
must they not now prove their manhood ? When 
questioned, many of them reply, with a certain conceit, 
that they cannot say what day they were affected, 
as the occasions had been numerous. Then, again, 
there are a number of women on the streets, many of 
them " unemployed " owing to the reduction of the 
male population of the suburbs, and they have much 
to answer for in juvenile contamination. 



SYPHILIS AS A NATIONAL DANGER 21 

These young syphilitics are the soldiers of to-morrow : 
military surgeons have reported with horror the 
proportion of recent cases of syphilis amongst the 
youths who have joined up during these last months. 

THE SOCIAL CONSEQUENCES OF SYPHILIS 
AMONGST SOLDIERS 

To return to syphilis amongst soldiers. 
On account of its frequency amongst soldiers and 
munition workers, this has become a danger : 

1. Because it compels patients to submit to treat- 
ment which, during the contagious periods, cannot 
be carried out at the front, or while men are still 
engaged in munition works, because, in a word, it 
diminishes the effectives. 

2. Because it diminishes a man's value. 

3. Because, being transmissible to a patient's 
descendants, it compromises the race at an epoch when, 
more than ever before, it is imperative that the race 
should be numerous and robust. 

Diminution of Effectives. In order to reduce 
syphilitic propagation, whether genitally or extra- 
genitally, it is essential that the patient should be 
removed from his habitual environment from his 
work or duty as long as he is a carrier of contagion : 
this is a fact disputed by no one. This precaution is 
all the more necessary because genuinely effective 
treatment of syphilis is not compatible with the 
requirements of military duties in time of war. 

Moreover, no matter how intense and active the 
treatment, in order to sterilise the contagious lesions, 
chancre or mucous plaques, a minimum of time is 
required, which varies according to the methods 
employed. Medical men, aware of the necessities of 
national defence, endeavour to reduce this period ; 
but, owing to the number of syphilitics, it represents 
a very appreciable time, and consequently a waste 
of effectives. 



22 SYPHILIS] AND THE ARMY 

Further, syphilis, even at an early stage, and espe- 
cially if not treated effectively at the beginning, may 
give rise to lesions which necessitate more or less 
prolonged treatment in hospital, so as to avoid con- 
tagion : jaundice, albuminuria, headache, ulcerative 
cutaneous lesions, etc., which form one part in the 
percentage of army morbidity. 

It must be noted, also, that syphilis may play a 
part in the progress of wounds, retard their cicatrisa- 
tion and osseous consolidation, and perhaps facilitate 
infection. From what I know of the operative results 
on syphilitic cases in general, and what I have seen 
since the outbreak of hostilities, this part seems very 
restricted ; still, certain surgeons consider it of real 
importance. It must, therefore, also be included 
when estimating the influence of syphilis on the 
diminution of effectives. 

Diminution of Men's Value and of the Duration of 
Human Life. Syphilis, during its various periods and 
for a long time, causes a series of lesions and troubles 
which diminish the physical and intellectual power 
of man. This is not the place to describe, nor even 
to enumerate the cerebro-spinal, cardio-vascular, 
hepatic, renal, and osseous localisations which, while 
often attributed to other causes,* are none the less 
a part of syphilitic infection and gravely encumber 
statistics of morbidity and mortality. 

There are no statistics in existence which enable 
one to estimate the reduction of human power entailed 
by the morbidity and mortality of syphilis. It would 
be necessary to take into account the loss of time and 
money caused by treatment ; the incapacity to work 
due to the disease itself, and the influence it might 
exercise on different affections, especially infections 
and intercurrent intoxications. 

* Letulle and Bergeron, "The Wassermann Reaction in Chronic 
Diseases" (Bulletin de V Academic de Medecine. Meeting of 
February 22nd, 1916, p. 204). 



SYPHILIS AS A NATIONAL DANGER 23 

As an indication, I may refer to the fact that, as 
regards workmen's accidents, the tribunals, when they 
have to appreciate the reduction of professional 
capacity as the result of syphilis, fix this reduction 
between 15 and 25%. 

In order to give an idea of the relative frequency of 
later syphilitic manifestations, Fournier * compiled a 
Table giving the results of the examination of 4,000 
patients who had consulted him for tertiary symptoms. 
The following is a resume of this Table : 



Syphilides and gummata . . 

Lesions of genital organs . 

the tongue and lips . 
the pharynx and palatine 
of bones and of the nose 



Gummata 



arch 



of tendons and muscles 



Les ons of the digestive tube 

respiratory passages 

heart, aorta, and arteries 

liver . 

kidney 

testicle 

eye . 

ear 

Syphilis of the brain . 
Cerebro- spinal troubles 
Syphilis of the medulla 
Tabes 

Neuritis and muscular atrophy 
General paralysis 
Ocular paralysis 
Facial hemiplegia 
Sundry nervous affections 
Sundry localisations . 



1,655 

271 

304 

566 

541 

19 

21 

55 

22 

9 

31 

245 

110 

24 

764 

29 

135 

676 

24 

83 

120 

23 

13 

19 

5,749 



As regards syphilitic mortality, Blaschko,| drawing 
upon the statistics of insurance companies, comes to 



* Alf . Fournier, The Social Danger of Syphilis. Report presented 
at the First International Conference for the Prophylaxis of Venereal 
Diseases. Brussels, 1899. 

f Blaschko, " The Influence of Syphilis on the Duration of Life " 
(IV. International Congress for Medical Insurance, Berlin, 1908). 



24 SYPHILIS AND THE ARMY 

the conclusion that the deaths caused by syphilis 
represent 6% of the total mortality, that at least 
30% of patients who have had syphilis die of this 
malady, and that syphilis shortens the duration of 
life by four years. 

Audry * has proved that incomplete, contradictory, 
and doubtful results of syphilitic mortality are given 
by the statistics of insurance companies, the various 
statistics of mortality published and those of tertiary 
syphilis, and that inquiries into treatment in clinics 
and the impressions of syphilologists only give 
incomplete facts. He has, nevertheless, recognised 
that their comparison yields interesting results. The 
impression obtained is that the mortality, in round 
figures, of syphilis, specific and deuteropathic, approxi- 
mates to 14 or 15%. It is believed that in France 
the mortality of syphilitic subjects regularly treated, 
young and sober, should not exceed 4 to 5%, whereas 
there can be no hesitation in multiplying this pro- 
portion tenfold for old men, drunkards, and certain 
decrepid individuals. 

These causes of sickness and death enter but rarely 
into play during actual war, but their weight will be 
felt more severely by syphilitics during the following 
years, all the more heavily as fatigue, war emotions, 
preoccupations of all kinds, which will follow peace, 
facilitate the development and localise the disease on 
an organism, which, healthy and immune from syphilis, 
would have been able to resist it. 

The consequence is a waste, of which it is impossible 
to estimate the importance. It is hoped, however, that 
the energetic treatment of primary syphilis will greatly 
diminish its proportions, although they cannot be 
ignored. Further, this waste, the direct consequence 
of war syphilis, will occur during the years in which 
the nation has the greatest need of the energy, the 

* Ch. Audry, " Essay on the Mortality of Acquired Syphilis" 
(Semaine medicate, June 26th, 1906). 



SYPHILIS AS A NATIONAL DANGER 25 

physical and intellectual vigour of its children, in order 
to repair the disasters caused by the war, and recon- 
struct the frame-work of industry, instruction, and 
scientific personnel. 

Inauspicious Influence upon the Birth-rate and Future 
Generations. It seems a commonplace remark , and yet 
it is one that must be repeated, that, after the war, 
it will be necessary for the French to produce many 
children : not only must the birth-rate fill up the gaps 
in the nation made by war, but, further, those which 
are the result of many years' voluntary restriction of 
births. The lessons taught by this war have been 
so cruel that a new mentality will spring up, quite 
opposed to the old order, as regards the procreation 
of children. 

It is imperative that the classes 1935, 1936, and the 
following years should exceed in numbers the classes 
1915, 1916, and, even if they cannot attempt to surpass 
them in heroism, then they must do so in physical 
vigour, so that they may have the maximum qualities 
of resistance and of physical and intellectual develop- 
ment, which will result in a high proportion of men fit 
for military service. 

But, with the propagation of syphilis, precisely the 
opposite result will be obtained. What is the value 
of a syphilitic as a procreator ? Nothing for several 
years. Not very much during subsequent ones ; so 
much so that nearly all sy philologists * are of opinion 
that marriage should be forbidden for four years at 
least, no matter how intense and active f treatment 
may have been, or what the serum reaction may be. 

Alfred Fournier { for many years has made a study 
of the influence of syphilis upon future generations. 

* Civatte, " Under what Condition can the Marriage of Syphilitics 
be permitted?" (General review, Annales de dermatologie, 1907, 
p. 734). 

f Brocq, " The Question of the Marriage of Syphilitics" (Bulletin 
medicate, February 21st and 24th, 1914, pp. 183 and 197). 

J A. Fournier, Syphilitic Heredity, Paris, 1891, p. 89. 



26 SYPHILIS AND THE ARMY 

He has based his conclusions upon 500 observations, in 
which he has been able to distinguish paternal heredity, 
maternal heredity, and mixed heredity (father and 
mother), and considers that these three kinds of 
heredity have the following influence on the morbidity 
and mortality of the child : 

Indications of Indications of 
Morbidity. Mortality. 

Exclusive paternal heredity . 37% 28% 

maternal . . 84% 60% 

Mixed heredity . . . 92% 68 '5% 

These statistics show that maternal heredity has a 
much greater noxious influence than paternal heredity : 
the contamination of a woman by her syphilitic hus- 
band may take place several years after his infection, 
thus pushing further back the period during which 
the pair can have healthy children. 

The noxious influence of syphilis certainly becomes 
more attenuated as the years roll by ; not only do the 
number of abortions diminish, but the mortality of 
children born at term also decreases rapidly. 

Alfred Fournier * has recorded the deaths of 176 
children out of 239 pregnancies in syphilitic families, 
and has noted the date of these pregnancies in connec- 
tion with maternal infection : 

First year 88 

Second year ..... 34 

Third year 17 

Fourth year ..... 7 

Fifth year ..... 5 

Sixth year ..... 6 

Seventh year ..... 5 

Eighth year ..... 5 

Ninth year ..... 1 

Tenth year ..... 1 

Eleventh year ..... 2 

* A. Fournier, Syphilitic Heredity, Paris, 1891, p. 104. 



SYPHILIS AS A NATIONAL DANGER 27 

Twelfth year 3 

Eighteenth year .... 1 
Twentieth year ..... 1 

Total . 176 



Out of 103 pregnancies, the issue of a syphilitic 
father and healthy mother, and in which the paternal 
influence was noxious, the same author has noted the 
manner in which the noxious effect was exercised.* 

Children born alive, then immediately or soon affected 
by congenital syphilis . . . . .17 

Children born alive, then showing symptoms of re- 
tarded congenital syphilis .... 2 

Abortions or premature confinements of dead children 4 1 

Children dead after varying periods (but generally 
after a short period), without any evident specific 
manifestations ....... 43 

Total 103 



Bar has kindly shown me the observations made on 
syphilitic women confined in the Tarnier clinic from 
January 1st, 1915, to August 31st, 1916. 

Those women are regarded as syphilitic who present 
active syphilitic troubles, proved syphilitic antecedents, 
or whose blood (mother's venous blood or from the 
cord) gives a positive Wassermann Reaction. 

These statistics are interesting, as they enable us to 
appreciate the injurious effects of syphilis upon the 
offspring of women mostly subjected to the modern 
methods of treatment. 

Out of a total of 118 pregnancies, the number of 
children living at the time the mother left the clinic 
after her last confinement is 40, i.e. 34%. 

But this is taking a round number, which, in order 
to indicate the real influence of syphilis, should be 

* A. Fournier, Syphilitic Heredity, p. 75. 



28 



SYPHILIS AND THE ARMY 



RESULTS OF PREGNANCIES OF 53 SYPHILITIC WOMEN CONFINED IN 
THE TABNIEB CLINIC FBOM JANUABY IST, 1915 TO AUGUST 
31ST, 1916. 

Last Previous 

Pregnancy. Pregnancies. 
1. Pregnancies prior to syphilitic infection : 

Miscarriages .... 3 15 

Children macerated or still-born 20 18 

Exencephalus ... 1 

Children dead before mother lef ; 

hospital .... 3 

Children died within first year 10 

Living children ... 15 5 

2. Pregnancies appearing after syphilitic 
infection : 

Living children (certain or very prob- 
able contamination of mother during 
pregnancy) 9 

Dead children (contamination of mother 

during pregnancy) ... 2 

Living children born after series of mis- 
carriages or still-born babies . 11 

Still-born children (albuminuria of 
mother before a series of mis- 
carriages or still- births). . . 5 

Condition of child not known . 1 



Total . 



53 



65 



subjected to an important correction, for a certain 
number of these pregnancies were anterior to the 
woman's contamination. 

Counting all the pregnancies as such, where this 
anteriority is probable, we find that out of 90 preg- 
nancies certainly posterior to the syphilis, there are 
20 living children, i.e. 22%. 

By taking an average, we come to the conclusion 
that 28% at the most of pregnancies of syphilitic 
women yield a child likely to live. 

Further, it must be noticed that for children of 
the last pregnancy, observations cease 8 to 10 days 
after birth. How many are there still living at 20 
years of age ? 

Like time, anti-syphilitic treatment attenuates the 
noxious action of heredity. So, for a very long time, 
which is longer still if treatment has been inadequate, 



SYPHILIS AS A NATIONAL DANGER 29 

or if syphilitic symptoms have a tendency to reappear, 
the syphilitic man begets a child unlikely to live, which 
will either not come to term, or will die in a few days. 
And, further, not only will the child not live, but, 
according to doctrine still under discussion, it will 
have an injurious effect upon the woman who bore it ; 
it will infect her, render her syphilitic, will be the cause 
of her bearing no healthy children for several years, 
and thus prolong the duration of sterility in the family. 

But that is not all : the syphilitic man, who for 
years has been unable to beget living children, will 
for some years longer be unable to beget healthy or 
well-formed ones. His first child having been, 
vulgarly speaking, " rotten," his later ones will be, 
at any rate, " tainted." True, they live, but are 
often born prematurely, and are small and pallid- 
looking. At the end of some days or weeks, their 
syphilitic tendency is revealed, their nostrils and lips 
become covered with scabs and fissures, mucous plaques 
develop on their lips and tongues ; if breast-fed, the 
discharge from these lesions often causes a syphilitic 
chancre to develop on the nipple of the nurse, with 
resultant troubles of all kinds for the parents. 

Later children may be born at term, and reveal 
syphilitic troubles neither at birth nor in the following 
weeks ; for some months their development may be 
almost normal, but later on they show signs of retarded 
congenital syphilis, so ably described by Alfred Fournier. 
They may be apparently healthy, with the exception 
of some accident which indicates their disease (gumma, 
exostosis, lesion of palate, testicular atrophy, etc.) ; 
but, as a rule, they are sickly, badly formed children, 
with weak bones, subject to chronic scrofulous 
ulcerations ; their genital organs are imperfectly 
developed, their cerebral functions affected in varying 
degrees, from intellectual debility or simple arrested 
development to complete imbecility with or without 
hydrocephalus. 



30 SYPHILIS AND THE ARMY 

Black as this description of syphilitic degeneration 
appears to be, it is but too true and too frequently 
realised. 

Syphilis is one of the most dangerous enemies of the 
race and its preservation, as well as the preservation of 
its physical and intellectual qualities ; with alcoholism, 
and much more than tuberculosis, it deteriorates, if 
it does not radically inhibit, reproduction. 

The disastrous influence of war syphilis will be felt 
throughout the whole country, not only in towns, where 
for a long time syphilis has been one of the causes 
of the decadence of the population, but also in country 
places, where previously it was not very prevalent. 
Therefore, the danger is perhaps greater in the country 
than in towns : for one reason, as experience has 
shown me, family contaminations are more frequent 
and numerous, owing to the ignorance and habits of 
the patients, and medical instructions are less regularly 
followed. On the other hand, the country may, so to 
speak , be regarded as the conservator of racial vigour ; 
the best military contingents, from a physical point 
of view, come off the land, and, after the terrible 
bleeding of the war, it will be more than ever necessary 
to safeguard its population, which is even now barely 
sufficient for agricultural purposes. 

True, all syphilitics are not destined to die without 
issue, or to leave behind them offspring without value 
in the defence or enrichment of their country. Energetic 
and sufficiently prolonged anti-syphilitic treatment, 
combined with the attenuating action of time, will 
enable them to procreate living children, well developed 
both physically and intellectually : all medical men are 
acquainted with syphilitics who, after having been 
treated by the older methods, have been allowed to 
marry after a reasonable time, and whose children, born 
under good conditions, are at the present time serving 
with the colours. We have all seen and I could 
cite several the children of syphilitic parents who 






SYPHILIS AS A NATIONAL DANGER 31 

showed undoubted manifestations in their early days, 
but, as the result of active and careful treatment, 
developed physically and intellectually enough to be 
regarded as fit for military service. There is reason 
to believe that the intensive treatment in use at the 
present day will yield even more satisfactory results. 

It must be emphasised, however, that this is the lot 
of patients who have been well advised, carefully 
treated, and have regularly followed the orders of their 
medical attendants. 

Amongst the legions of syphilitics infected since war 
began, it is easy to imagine that, after the cessation of 
hostilities, many of them, removed from the supervision 
of the medical man who attended them in the early 
stages, and seeing no further syphilitic manifestations 
appear especially after intensive arsenical treatment 
will consider themselves definitely cured, and take 
no further trouble, with subsequent inability to beget 
healthy children. To prove that these fears are nc 
exaggerated, it is only necessary to see, at a hospital 
consultation, the carelessness of old syphilitics, the 
number of those seen for the first time and treated 
properly who never return and follow no treatment 
at all until some grave symptom appears. In an 
artisan population, and still more in a rural one, it is 
the exception to see syphilis properly treated ; mis- 
carriages, as the result of carelessly tended specific 
disease, being the rule. Medical and administrative 
propaganda for regular and prolonged treatment 
have still much to do before erasing this culpable 
negligence. 

Syphilitics recruited into the Army belong for the 
most part to men of marrying age, or who have been 
recently married, whose procreative faculties are in 
full development, and who are destined to repopulate 
the country. From a national point of view, it is 
of very little importance that a man of 50 or over 
should contract syphilis ; his procreative work is 



32 SYPHILIS AND THE ARMY 

done. But a man of 25 to 35 who becomes syphilitic 
has forfeited his reproductive power. As a rule, 
a man who develops syphilis between 35 and 45 is 
lost for reproduction ; the period during which he 
should deny himself extending to an age when he will 
have no desire, or when his posterity would be alto- 
gether undesirable, the syphilitic influence being 
combined with that of age. 

Taking into account the prolificness that will be 
necessary to bring the population of France back to 
its indispensable rate on the one hand, and the varied 
ages of the men who contract syphilis in the Army 
and in munition works on the other hand, there is no 
exaggeration in estimating that each syphilitic infec- 
tion of a mobilised man will be the means of depriving 
France of at least one soldier and one mother of a 
family during the decennial period 1936 to 1945. 

Pautrier expresses the same idea in the report, 

^ which I have already quoted, on the organisation of 

military venereal hospitals, when he says, after having 

attempted to specify the exact number of cases of 

syphilis in the A rmy : 

" If one accepts the mean figure of 200,000, which, 
while hypothetical, is quite possible, and attributes to 
each of these cases the production of two miscarriages 
only, it is evident that treponemic infection will cost 
us 400,000 births, i.e. the equivalent of two classes. 

" Thus, the word ' national peril ' is not too strong." 

Surely this consideration is of a nature to justify 
the most energetic measures, even the most drastic, 
to prevent the propagation of syphilis. 

And now, when on all sides voices are being raised 
in denunciation of the peril of depopulation and 
demanding the repopulation of France, when leagues 
and associations are being proposed with the object 
of encouraging large families and protecting the life 
and health of children, is it not urgent to dry up the 
source of such a waste of life ? 



SYPHILIS AS A NATIONAL DANGER 33 

All that is done to protect the Army from syphilis 
will necessarily rebound favourably on the population. 

In the following chapters I shall show how, from 
the military side, most rational measures have been 
taken under the inspiration of Medical Inspector 
General Vaillard. Mr. Justin Godart, Under-Secretary 
of State of the Health Service of the War Office, in 
prescribing these measures and attacking what he 
also, in his circular of January 5th, 1916, has called 
a national peril, has engaged in a more active struggle 
against syphilis than any minister has ever done 
before, and by the instructions issued on September 2 5th, 
1916, has responded to the recommendations of the 
Academy of Medicine at the meeting of June 13th, 
1916. 



CHAPTER IV 

SYMPTOMS AND DIAGNOSIS OF THE SYPHILITIC LESIONS 
MOST COMMONLY OBSERVED IN THE ARMY 

THIS book is not a treatise on syphilis, nor is this the 
place to give a complete description of its various 
manifestations. Nevertheless, it seems advisable to 
refer, with necessary details, to the characteristics and 
diagnostic elements of the main syphilitic lesions likely 
to be observed amongst soldiers, especially primary 
and secondary symptoms. Owing to their frequency 
in the Army, and of their contagiousness, the military 
surgeon ought to be acquainted with their diagnosis. 

SYPHILITIC CHANCRE 

Developed at the site of inoculation of the syphilitic 
virus, the infective chancre in soldiers is nearly always 
found on the genital organs or in their immediate 
neighbourhood. More rarely, it is situated on the 
tongue, lips or tonsils, but it is then the result of 
accidental and not venereal contamination. It is 
quite exceptional for it to be found on the limbs. 

After having cited the symptoms and explained the 
diagnosis of syphilitic chancre on the genital organs, I 
shall give a description of the extra-genital localisations 
of chancre most frequently observed. 

Period of Incubation of the Chancre. Its Duration. 
Syphilitic chancre this is a characteristic of the 
utmost importance from the point of view of its diag- 

34 



SYMPTOMS AND DIAGNOSIS 35 

nosis from simple chancre does not appear imme- 
diately after the infective contact, but is separated from 
it by a very clearly defined period of incubation. The 
duration of this period is from 25 to 30 days, accord- 
ing to proved clinical observations, the confirmation 
of the patients and those who have infected them, 
and the experimental inoculations made on man ; 
it is rarely less than 14 to 17 days ; but may 
extend to 40 days, and very exceptionally even 
beyond that period. 

Owing to the conditions of military service, espe- 
cially at the front, it is often possible for the man 
to fix the date of the infective intercourse, when he 
is willing to do so. Thus, by means of careful ques- 
tions, and having regard to the intelligence of the 
man and the conditions which may influence the 
veracity of his statements, it is possible to make a 
presumptive diagnosis from the duration of the 
incubation. On the other hand, comparison of the 
age of a chancre with the dates of leave may some- 
times show the inexactitude of his statements. 

In order to make use, for diagnostic purposes, of the 
information supplied by the soldier suffering from 
a chancre, it is necessary to weigh his statements very 
carefully, and check them in every way possible. 

Causes of Localisation of the Chancre. Syphilitic 
inoculation takes place through a solution in con- 
tinuity of the integument, a traumatic excoriation 
at the moment of infective intercourse, a lesion from 
scratching induced by the presence of pediculosis 
pubis or scabies, etc. At the moment the chancre 
appears this lesion has nearly always disappeared, 
leaving no trace, and often even no recollection of 
it. The concomitant lesions of itch or the presence 
of crab-lice may still be in existence and explain 
certain particularities of the syphilitic infection : this 
is why chancres following itch are often multiple, 
and sometimes very numerous, the points of entry 



36 SYPHILIS AND THE ARMY 

made by the acarus being also multiple. This also 
explains why chancres which have appeared on persons 
affected with pediculi are frequently situated on 
excoriations due to scratching in the pubic region, 
inside the thighs and scrotum, regions on which a 
syphilitic chancre is localised more rarely than on the 
penis. 

Commencement of the Chancre. A chancre develops 
in healthy skin ; it commences as a rounded papule, 
bleeding easily, of firm consistency, with a slight 
erosion in the centre ; but at this stage it has no 
pathognomonic characteristic. It must be added, 
further, that the chancre is rarely observed by the 
medical man at this stage, and indeed can only be 
noticed in patients who are scrupulously careful or 
nervous, who consult a doctor the moment there is 
anything abnormal on their genital organs. 

During the following days the lesion progresses, 
becomes larger and more defined, the induration 
increases, and the ulceration extends. 

Stage of Maturity. When the syphilitic chancre 
has developed it is possible to define it as an ulcera- 
tion situated upon a hard base. I ought rather to 
say ex-ulceration, for the loss of substance is very often 
superficial. 

Smooth, with a regular surface, presenting neither 
depressions nor projections, such as are seen on the 
irregular base of simple chancre, the ex-ulceration is 
ordinarily on a level with the neighbouring skin, 
sometimes it projects above it ; occasionally it is 
depressed and saucer-shaped ; more rarely still, it is 
excavated. 

The surface of this ulceration is generally glazed 
of a special red colour, which has been compared by 
all classical writers to that of muscular tissue ; if 
observed carefully under a magnifying glass, it is 
found that it is not uniform, but very finely granulated, 
sprinkled with little specks of deeper red, which are 



SYMPTOMS AND DIAGNOSIS 37 

nothing but fine vascular dilatations. Some chancres 
are of a different colour ; they are covered by a greyish 
layer, almost diphtheroid, which, although not thick, 
is very adherent. This coloration often does not 
cover the whole surface of the chancre, but forms a 
concentric circle around its border ; the result is a 
peculiar appearance, which goes by the description 
chancre in rosette. 

Syphilitic chancre of the genital organs does not 
suppurate ; here it differs completely from simple 
chancre : all it does is to exude a very small quantity 
of serous fluid, which keeps up a slight moisture on 
the surface and aids in giving it its glazed appearance. 
J. Nicolas * has called attention to the facility with 
which this discharge can be induced. It is only 
necessary, when the chancre has come to a head, to 
execute slight friction with a hard body such as a 
platinum spatula or vaccination needle, to see the 
surface covered over by a clear, transparent serum : 
this discharge, if the friction is continued, becomes 
abundant enough to be collected with the spatula or 
needle. 

This characteristic is very important from the 
point of view of diagnosis of the chancre, because it 
is in this exudation resulting from serous drainage of 
the superficial layers of the chancre that it is most 
easy to detect the presence of the spirochsete. I shall 
refer again later to this point, when discussing the 
bacteriological diagnosis of chancre. 

On the skin, or more accurately in the regions 
where the nature of the integument does not allow 
of a certain degree of constant moisture, the secretion 
of the chancre forms into more or less thick scabs 
(scabous chancre) ; but these scabs always remain 
dry, and no layer of pus is found below them, such 
as happens with simple chancre or with ecthyma. 

* J. Nicolas, " Schaudinn and Hoffmann's Spirochtcta Pallida and 
Syphilis" (Lyon medical, October 1st, 1905, p. 497). 



38 SYPHILIS AND THE ARMY 

Syphilitic chancre is nearly always of regular 
formation, extremely regular, geometrical, rounded or 
oval. In certain regions, like the anus, it may take 
on a fissure-like form, or be disposed like the leaves 
of a book. 

The dimensions are variable. It may remain small 
through its whole evolution, in a state of dwarf chancre, 
resembling a herpetic erosion. The average size is 
about the size of a sixpence. It is altogether excep- 
tional, especially on the genital organs, for it to 
attain the size of a shilling or over : it is only on the 
body that larger dimensions may be attained, meriting 
the name of giant chancre. 

The ulceration of a syphilitic chancre rests upon an 
indurated base ; this is the main characteristic, which 
is of great importance from a diagnostic point of 
view, and has gained for it the name of indurated 
chancre. As a matter of fact, it is altogether excep- 
tional for the induration to be absent, especially in 
man ; but it varies in intensity. 

In order to appreciate this clearly, it is necessary to 
proceed methodically : the thumb and index finger, 
covered by a rubber finger-stall, or protected by 
lint,* and opposite to each other, are placed one at 
each of the extremities of one of the diameters of the 
ulceration and at a centimetre or demi-centimetre 
outside it ; approaching one to the other, the base 
of the chancre is slightly raised by means of moderate 

* It cannot be urged too strongly on medical men to take pre- 
cautions, when called upon to examine patients suffering from 
ulcerous lesions of the genital organs or other regions. They should, 
first of all, see that there is neither sore nor excoriation on any of 
the parts likely to come in contact with the suppurating lesions of 
their patients, and, if they have any, these should be covered up 
with plaster. 

At a consultation, at which a certain number of venereal patients 
are present, it is a good thing to have rubber finger-stalls at hand, 
which should be put on before manipulating the chancres. 

A compress, or even a thin tuft of wadding, can be used instead 
of gloves. 

After touching an ulceration, the doctor should wash his hands 



SYMPTOMS AND DIAGNOSIS 39 

pressure ; it is then easy to feel, between the two 
fingers, the existence of a firm plaque of regular con- 
sistency, but varying in one case from another. It 
is more like the sensation that would be given by a 
sheet of thick paper or parchment (papyraceous 
induration), rather than that of cartilage, or even 
of a piece of wood (ligneous induration). There is 
always a certain elasticity in this induration. Unless 
it is very large, it can be distorted slightly by pre sure, 
and the surface of the chancre, from being level, 
becomes slightly convex, like a sheet of flexible card- 
board. 

The degree of induration is often, but not always, 
in relation to the dimensions of the chancre : dwarf 
chancres may have a very indurated base, voluminous 
chancres may rest upon a papyraceous induration. 

The induration always extends beyond the limits of 
the ulceratioii. When it has reached a certain degree 
it forms, as it were, a pastille with an ulcerated centre. 

The induration of some chancres is obvious : situ- 
ated upon convex or cylindrical parts, they do not 
conform to the contour, but their two extremities 
project from the adjacent tissues, thus proving that 
their base is hard and unyielding. The induration 
gives rise to a particularly curious phenomenon in 
chancres occupying the internal surface of the prepuce 
near its insertion : if the prepuce is retracted, at the 
moment its folds reach the lower border of the chancre, 



with soap and water, or, simpler still, dip the fingers into alcohol, 
as they may have been soiled by the secretions. 

Further, I cannot recommend too strongly that the genital organs 
of a patient should never be examined without having exposed 
the entire region, and ordered the patient to remove his hands : 
these, which have often touched the dressings or ulcerations, may be 
soiled by contagious pus, and the doctor risks contamination from 
the scratch of a finger-nail, should the patient move suddenly. 

Finally, the medical man should always see that the dressings 
which have been in contact with the ulcerations are not, under any 
pretext, placed on a chair or on the floor, but are put by the patient 
himself into a receptacle, or on a paper to be burned. 



40 SYPHILIS AND THE ARMY 

it is lifted abruptly on to the corona of the glana, 
executing exactly the same movement as the tarsal 
cartilage does during the eversion of the eyelid. In 
these cases, it is almost unnecessary to feel the indura- 
tion with the ringers : it reveals itself to sight, and 
cannot be mistaken for anything else. 

Besides the induration, the base of a syphilitic chancre 
may be the seat of more or less pronounced infiltration 
and of tumefaction, which cause considerable deformity. 
Thus certain chancres of the prepuce produce very 
marked phimosis, with enormous increase in the volume 
of the prepuce, giving rise to distortion, described as 
" bell-clapper penis," which is almost pathognomic of 
syphilitic chancre. Through the cedematous and 
tumified prepuce, it is possible to feel one or more 
indurated plaques, indicative of chancres of the 
prepuce concealed by the intensity of the phimosis. 

Contrary to simple chancre, the syphilitic chancre is 
painless, spontaneously, under the influence of pressure, 
or of exterior contact. Nevertheless, chancres situated 
on the preputial orifice, or on the urinary meatus, 
are painful during micturition. External irritation 
may occasionally render chancres painful, no matter 
where situated, by inducing inflammation. 

Habitual Unicity of Syphilitic Chancre ; its Frequent 
Multiplicity. Although a syphilitic chancre is generally 
single, this is not the case as much as is currently 
believed from the schedule of Ricord. It is multiple 
in one case out of four ; but it is rare to observe more 
than three or four in the same subject. Multiple 
chancres may be situated on the same region, or on 
different parts of the body : in this way, one may see a 
chancre of the genital organs and one of the anus or 
cephalic extremity developing simultaneously, accord- 
ing to the hazards of inoculation. 

Results of the Inoculation of Syphilitic Chancre on the 
Bearer of the Chancre. It has long been considered an 
important characteristic of syphilitic chancre that it 



SYMPTOMS AND DIAGNOSIS 41 

was impossible for it to inoculate its bearer. The 
researches of Queyrat have recently shown that, under 
this form, the proposition was not correct, and that, at 
any rate during the first weeks of its evolution, it was 
possible to obtain a lesion of a chancrous nature at 
the point of an inoculation ; this lesion becomes more 
and more attenuated, in proportion to the age of the 
chancre, but is always characterised by more or less 
pronounced induration, with or without ulceration. 

The old opinion, therefore, cannot be regarded as 
strictly accurate. It is none the less true that the 
syphilitic chancre differs from simple chancre, from the 
point of view of inoculation. Whereas the latter, up 
to an advanced period of its evolution, reproduces by 
inoculation a lesion at the end of about forty-eight 
hours, characterised by a pustule and leading on the 
fourth day to the development of a deep ulceration 
with detached borders, inoculation of the secretion or 
tissue of a syphilitic chancre produces nothing in this 
time, and gives rise, after ten to fifteen days, to a lesion 
characterised by an infiltrative papule which may 
afterwards become ulcerated, but never becomes an 
ulcer with detached borders. In short, inoculation 
of the infecting chancre never gives rise to the inocula- 
tion lesion made known by Hunter and Ricord ; the 
law of Bassereau remains always true. 

Evolution of the Syphilitic Chancre. When left to 
itself, the syphilitic chancre lasts about four weeks ; 
parchment-like chancres evolve more rapidly, while 
extensive ones with much induration last longer. 
Treatment, especially with arsenobenzol, hastens the 
cicatrisation of the chancre. 

Healing is evidenced by diminished induration ; 
the diphtheroid membrane, if it existed, falls ; the 
surface becomes less red, granulates, and heals up ; 
the ulcer gradually contracts. 

After healing, a level, soft cicatrix remains, which is 
pigmented for a long time and often retains a certain 



42 SYPHILIS AND THE ARMY 

degree of infiltration and induration appreciable to 
careful palpation for several weeks, especially if the 
chancre has not been treated with arsenobenzol. 

Effect of the Chancre on the Vessels and Lymphatic 
Glands (Lymphitis and Adenopathy}. The syphilitic 
chancre rapidly implicates the vessels and lymphatic 
glands, more than any other cutaneous or mucous 
lesion. 

A few hours after its appearance, it is frequently 
accompanied by lymphitis ; this is specially appreciable 
with chancres of the prepuce and glans, on the dorsal 
surface of the penis, in the form of one or two slightly 
moniliform or smooth indurated cords, which have 
often been taken for phlebitis. This lymphitis persists 
for the duration of the chancre, and disappears at the 
moment of its cicatrisation. 

The lymphatic glands corresponding to the region 
of the chancre are also affected at an early date. The 
satellite adenopathy of the chancre, which, at first single, 
rapidly becomes multiglandular ; hard, enlarged, 
isolated from each other, the glands are painless on 
pressure, and movement. Sometimes, however, under 
the influence of traumatic irritation and secondary 
infection, they may become inflamed, increase still 
further in volume, become surrounded by periadenitis, 
and painful, but they practically never suppurate. 

According to E/icord, a more voluminous gland is 
often seen in the midst of smaller ones, which is some- 
times harder and corresponds, according to classical 
teaching, to the lymphatics coming directly from the 
chancre. 

The adenopathy of a syphilitic chancre, however, is 
not always in direct anatomical relationship with the 
seat of the chancre itself ; it is not unusual, with a 
chancre clearly on one side of the glans or prepuce, 
to see adenopathy develop in both groins ; nor, 
with a chancre similarly situated, to find the lym- 
phatic glands on the same side immune, whereas those 



SYMPTOMS AND DIAGNOSIS 43 

on the opposite one are the seat of very pronounced 
adenopathy. 

It is well to note that, in exceptional cases, the 
regional adenopathy is absent during the whole of the 
evolution of the chancre. 

The adenopathy persists after the chancre for 
some weeks, often for months ; it disappears more 
rapidly with patients who have been treated with 
arsenical preparations. 

Diagnostic Elements of Syphilitic Chancre 

The diagnosis of syphilitic chancre depends on four 
factors : the objective signs ; its evolution ; signs 
drawn from the patient's antecedents and the appear- 
ance of symptoms of secondary syphilis ; lastly on 
laboratory researches. 

Diagnostic Importance of the Objective Signs 

Of all the objective signs already described, the most 
important are : the slight depth of the ulceration ; 
absence of detachment of the borders, this sign enabling 
one to recognise that it is not a question of simple 
chancre ; induration of the base. 

This last characteristic is of the utmost importance : 
a clearly denned induration, limited to the base of the 
syphilitic chancre, is almost a pathognomonic sign. But 
it is also necessary that the induration belongs to the 
lesion it accompanies, and is not superimposed. 

It often happens that a simple ulceration, an ex- 
coriation occurring during coitus, herpetic ulcera- 
tion, etc., has been subjected to irritant treatment, 
covered with unsuitable remedies, and has become sur- 
rounded by an inflammatory inflammation simulating 
the characteristics of basal induration. 

Various remedies, sometimes the most improbable 
ones, may cause this condition. It is frequently 
noticed after the application of ashes from a pipe, a 



44 SYPHILIS AND THE ARMY 

very favourite remedy among the people. Some 
patients, haunted by the fear of syphilis, directly they 
notice an ulceration of the genital organs, hasten to 
heap upon it all the antiseptic liquids they have to 
hand : tincture of iodine, concentrated carbolic acid, 
permanganate of potash, peroxide of hydrogen, sub- 
limate, nitrate of silver, etc., and to cover it with all the 
powders of the pharmacopoeia. The result is that, 
when they consult a doctor, it is impossible for him to 
diagnose the cause of the induration, which might 
equally well belong to the lesion itself, or be the con- 
sequence of unsuitable treatment. 

A much more frequent cause of induration is the use 
of calomel on ulcerations of the genital organs, either 
in the form of powder or of ointment. These two 
remedies have for long been advised by famous syphilo- 
logists in the treatment of syphilitic chancre : experi- 
ence has long shown, however, that they are of no 
special value, and should be abandoned. But, above 
all, they must never, under any pretext whatever, be 
applied to an ulceration not yet properly diagnosed. 

Under these conditions, calomel, either as powder or 
ointment, must be prohibited in the treatment of ulcera- 
tions of the genital organs. 

Inflammatory infiltration differs from true induration 
by having less firmness, less regularity, and less clearly 
defined limitation. When the infiltrated base of a 
simple ulceration is pressed between two fingers, this 
base can be depressed and modelled, so to speak, 
instead of becoming tense, and raised with a certain 
convexity, like the syphilitic chancre ; when pressed on 
the two extremities of one of its diameters, its surface 
seems to double up under the fingers. If doubt still 
persists after examination and the other diagnostic 
elements are uncertain, the patient should be told to 
apply a dressing of boiled water for two or three days 
to the exclusion of any other remedy : an inflammatory 
infiltration generally becomes modified or disappears 



SYMPTOMS AND DIAGNOSIS 45 

at the end of this time, whereas a syphilitic chancre 
persists. 

Diagnostic Value of the Signs drawn from the Evolution 
of the Chancre 

I have already indicated (see page 34) the 
existence and duration of the incubation period of 
syphilis. It is necessary to revert to this here, in order 
to show that, in certain cases, this factor is of great 
importance in diagnosis. A simple chancre has no 
incubation, or at least the period is very short, not 
exceeding two or three days, so that, in every case 
where an ulceration develops more than four or five 
days after the last coitus, the diagnosis of simple 
chancre is untenable. 

On the other hand, the fact of recent coitus is not 
sufficient to eliminate the possibility of syphilitic 
chancre, contamination possibly extending to an earlier 
one. It is only in the case where, the patient's state- 
ments appearing to be perfectly truthful, no possibility 
of syphilitic infection can be found for several months, 
apart from the recent coitus, that, relying on these 
statements alone, one might admit with certainty the 
existence of a simple chancre. 

Deductions drawn from the statements of the patient, 
as I have already remarked, have but a relative value, 
depending on his truthfulness and intelligence. 

Signs drawn from the Patient's Antecedents, or from the 
Appearance of Symptoms of Secondary Syphilis 

Syphilis only recurs exceptionally ; the certain 
knowledge of previous syphilis should put one on one's 
guard against the diagnosis of syphilitic chancre. To 
tell the truth, it is a dangerous postulate to reject this 
diagnosis, for the sole reason that the patient states he 
has previously had syphilis or a chancre. In the first 
place, the patient's statements may be incorrect, con- 



46 SYPHILIS AND THE ARMY 

fusion existing in his mind between all venereal dis- 
eases : what he had previously called syphilis may have 
been nothing but gonorrhoea, an error which can be 
overcome by making the patient specify the symptoms 
he has experienced. 

In the second place, the diagnosis of the first affec- 
tion may have been incorrectly made by the prac- 
titioner consulted at that time, a mistake more difficult 
to eliminate. 

Finally, rare as they are, syphilitic re-infections 
do take place, contrary to the opinion of Ricord and 
Alfred Fournier; but these must not be admitted 
unless the diagnosis of the first attack, and that of 
the second, are based on undoubted facts. 

Thus, if in a patient the antecedents of former 
acquired syphilis seem certain, it will be necessary, 
before diagnosing infective chancre, to be doubly 
sure and to have this confirmed by the most accurate 
methods I am not now speaking of hereditary 
syphilis, or at least of hereditary antecedents of 
syphilis, for it is demonstrated by numerous observa- 
tions that the descendants of syphilitics may contract 
the disease like others. 

The development of secondary syphilitic affections 
appears, under normal conditions, after an ulceration 
which has presented more or less marked characteris- 
tics of syphilitic chancre, and may help in the diagnosis 
of the latter. We shall see, as a matter of fact, after 
having recourse to all methods of examination, that 
a doubt may still persist as to the nature of a genital 
ulceration : this can only be determined by the 
appearance of roseola or of mucous plaques. But, as 
secondary symptoms only develop six weeks after the 
appearance of the chancre, this is the slowest method 
to which one can have recourse, a final one, a make- 
shift one for which one would only decide to wait 
under very exceptional and specially embarrassing 
circumstances. 



SYMPTOMS AND DIAGNOSIS 47 

Indications supplied by Laboratory Researches 

Experimental bacteriological researches, since 1905, 
have brought an aid to syphilitic diagnosis, which 
cannot to-day be ignored in doubtful cases. 

Without discussing the laboratory inoculations of 
animals, which in certain limited cases may render 
first-class help, but are totally impracticable in the 
laboratories improvised in sanitary centres, there are 
two methods which can be utilised for general syphilitic 
diagnosis : research for the parasite of syphilis and 
complement-fixation . 

Research for the Parasite of Syphilis. The spiro- 
chsete of Schaudinn and Hoffmann, to-day generally 
called Treponema pallidum in France, if definitely 
found, is sufficient to classify as syphilitic the lesion 
in which it has been demonstrated, and if this lesion 
presents the objective or evolutionary characteristics 
of a chancre, it can be stated definitely that it is a 
syphilitic chancre. 

It is easy to look for this parasite : it can be done 
with any microscope, with the aid of staining methods, 
if the microscope used is only an ordinary one, or 
by direct examination of the preparations on a dark 
field, if the observer possesses a so-called ultra- 
microscope. 

The first rule to be observed, in searching for this 
parasite, is to examine the preparations in which it 
is possible to find it, if it is present. 

Indeed, infective suppurating chancres supply secre- 
tions full of microbes of all kinds, in the midst of 
which the spirochsete is unperceived, or confused with 
the innumerable series of non-pathogenic spirillae. 

Further, the various antiseptic remedies used 
wrongly or rightly in the treatment of ulcerations of 
the genital organs have the effect of destroying this 
very vulnerable parasite, at any rate in the super- 
ficial layers of the ulceration. 



48 SYPHILIS AND THE ARMY 

Hence, if the treponema is to be searched for in 
an ulcer of the genital organs, whether suppurative, 
infective, or treated by some antiseptic, it is necessary 
to put a dressing of boiled water only on the ulcer 
for at least forty-eight hours, which should be kept 
on permanently and renewed twice daily, and bathe 
it also with pure boiled water; every antiseptic, no 
matter how weak, being absolutely excluded. 

Chancres covered with a diphtheroid layer should 
also be subjected for forty-eight hours to dressings 
of boiled water. 

To collect the material for examination : the best 
method consists in applying superficial friction to the 
surface of the ulcer, by means of a hard body, a 
platinum spatula or vaccination needle, which should 
be first sterilised by heating in a flame. The ulcer 
will soon be covered by an abundant serum. 

Nevertheless, in chancres of long standing this 
serum is only obtained with difficulty, and not in 
adequate quantities for examination purposes ; it is 
necessary to scarify the surface lightly and collect 
the mixture of blood and serum which flows from the 
scarifications. 

The fluid is spread on a slide in a thin layer. If the 
examination is to be made with an ultra-microscope 
it is simply covered with a cover-glass and examined 
direct. In the absence of the ultra-microscope, re- 
course must be had to staining methods. 

The classical method of microscopic examination of 
the spirochsete is that of Giemsa, which has the 
advantage of supplying a fairly characteristic coloured 
reaction. This method consists in diluting Giemsa's 
solution (which is composed of 3 grammes of Azur II 
Eosin, 0'8 gramme of Azur II in 250 grammes of 
glycerine, evaporated to dryness, and added to 250 
grammes of Methyl Alcohol in the proportion of 1 drop 
to 1 cubic centimetre of distilled water. The pre- 
paration is dried in air, then fixed for ten minutes 



SYMPTOMS AND DIAGNOSIS 49 

in absolute alcohol, or it may be fixed, before drying, 
by osmic acid vapour ; it is then immersed for one or 
more hours in the colouring solution. For a rapid 
diagnosis, the same solution may be used, rather 
more concentrated and with, or without, the addition 
of |% glycerine ; staining is then produced by heating 
until steam is produced, renewing the fluid 3 to 5 
times ; staining is complete as soon as the blood- 
corpuscles appear vividly pink under a low magni- 
fication. 

With Giemsa's method of preparation, the microbes 
are coloured bluish-violet, as well as the non-patho- 
genic spirilla and the cell nuclei, the blood-corpuscles 
are pink, and the treponema pallidum reddish-pink. 
It is seen best in the neighbourhood of the blood- 
corpuscles. 

In default of Giemsa's * reagent, one can have 
recourse to silver staining, already made by Ravaut 
with largine, and which Fontana carries out in the 
following manner : the preparation is fixed and 
decolorised, by means of an aqueous solution of acetic 
acid (1%) and of formol (2%), then heated for 30 
seconds in a 5% solution of tannic acid, and, after 
washing, treated with an ammoniacal solution of 
5% nitrate of silver, also for 30 seconds. 

The Chinese ink method has been employed more 
abroad than in France. Owing to the facility of its 
use, and in default of an ultra-microscope, it may 
be of service in army laboratories. It consists in the 
employment of a dilution of Chinese ink, which forms 
a dark ground on which the treponemas appear colour- 
less. 

As a general rule, however, the favourite method 
of seeking for the spirochsete is examination on a 
dark ground, called the ultra-microscope method. I 
think it has been adopted by all sy philologists, on 

* Giemsa's solution, being the monopoly of a German firm before 
the present war, is now being prepared by French manufacturers. 

4 



60 SYPHILIS AND THE AEMY 

account of its rapidity and simplicity ; but it neces- 
sitates special apparatus, which is not provided in 
many of the army laboratories and medical centres. 
With the illumination obtained from this apparatus, 
the ground-work of the preparation remains dark, 
whereas the corpuscles immersed therein are vividly 
illuminated and show up very clearly. 

The examination is made either with a dry or an 
oil-immersion lens, in fresh preparations, in which 
the spirochsetes are seen living, moving from place to 
place, thus facilitating research and their identification. 

In fixed and stained preparations, the spirochsete 
appears as an extremely fine thread, tapering at its 
two extremities and twisted into a spiral like a cork- 
screw, with many turns (6 to 12 on an average). 
The turns of the spiral are narrow, regular, and deep. 
The total length of the parasite is from 5 to 20 /u; 
its width from i to /* ; on an average its length 
slightly exceeds the diameter of a blood corpuscle. 

Examined with the ultra-microscope, it is mobile. 
It can move round its longitudinal axis, advancing 
or retreating by jerks and in a straight line ; or, while 
remaining in the same place, it performs undulations 
or makes movements of flexion and torsion ; some- 
times its two extremities unite so as to form a circle. 

The Treponema pallidum is distinguished from 
other spirilla by its regularity, the multiplicity and 
permanence of its spirals, its mobility in the living 
state, and its reaction to staining media. 

The Spirochcete refringens, which frequently exists 
on the surface of ulcerous lesions of the genital 
organs, and with which it might be confused, has 
not so many spirals. These are irregular, very 
elongated, and not deep ; it changes but little under 
the influence of reagents or in its movements ; it is 
thicker than the treponema, and is deeply stained by 
the usual stains. 

In ulcerations of the mouth, and even of the lips, 



SYMPTOMS AND DIAGNOSIS 51 

there is a possibility of confusion with other micro- 
organisms, difficult to avoid, even by an expert 
observer. The greatest precautions must be taken, 
therefore, when the diagnosis of syphilitic chancre of 
the mouth has to be determined by bacteriological 
examination. The following is a list of the special 
characteristics of buccal spirilla, which might be 
confused with the Treponema pallidum. 

The Spirillum dentium is like the treponema as 
regards its slimness and the regularity of its spirals, 
but differs as to length (4 to 10 //. at the maximum), 
and especially in the slighter depth of its undulations. 

The Spirochceta buccalis is, on the other hand, easy 
to recognise on account of its great length, its thick- 
ness, the irregularity of its spirals, and its extreme 
mobility. 

Vincent's Spirillum is longer and thicker than the 
Treponema pallidum, its spirals are irregular and not 
deep ; it is associated with the fusiform bacillus. 

The Spirochcete refringens is almost the only spirillum 
which may be confounded with the Treponema pal- 
lidum in the scrapings obtained from ulcerations of 
the genital organs. 

The presence of the treponema in the scrapings of 
an ulceration of chancrous appearance enables one 
to prove that this ulceration is a syphilitic chancre ; 
but its absence would not definitely exclude such a 
diagnosis. 

Indeed, it is by no means exceptional for it to be 
absent in undoubted cases of chancre. 

In the first place, it may have been dispersed by 
the use of antiseptics, to which it is very sensitive. 
Secondly, the surface of the ulceration may be 
the seat of various secondary infections, the patho- 
genic agents of which have caused the treponema to 
disappear, or prevented the verification of its presence 
in the scrapings. I have already shown that these 
two causes of error might be prevented by using 



52 SYPHILIS AND THE ARMY 

dressings and bathings of boiled water for forty-eight 
hours. 

Finally, there are chancres in the scrapings of 
which it is impossible to distinguish the presence of 
the treponema, no matter what care is taken. These 
chancres are nearly always of long standing, extending 
beyond fifteen or twenty days, in which the tissue is 
more or less sclerosed, the scrapings yielding but the 
slightest exudation, and in which even deep scari- 
fications do not succeed in reaching the foci of tre- 
ponemae. 

In these cases it would be possible to obtain evidence 
of the treponema from sections of the chancre, 
hardened in alcohol and impregnated with silver after 
Bertarelli's method ; but it would be necessary to 
make a partial excision of the chancre, and the patients 
might refuse to submit to this ; further, this method 
of examination can only be accomplished in a well- 
appointed laboratory. It could not, therefore, be 
recommended in army practice. 

Researches for the Fixation of the Complement (Wasser- 
mann Reaction). Many medical men believe that 
the complement-fixation test, by means of the 
method of Bordet and Gengou called the Wassermann 
Reaction, is of the highest importance in the diagnosis 
of syphilitic chancre. Every day soldiers are sent to 
the bacteriological laboratories with a note, containing 
the following statement : " Probable syphilitic chancre; 
kindly make a Wassermann Reaction." 

This belief is wrong, and if one relied upon the 
result of the Wassermann Reaction for determining 
the diagnosis of chancre, it would be erroneous nine 
times out of ten. 

The views of medical men in general, and even of 
experts in the Wassermann Reaction, are very vague, 
as I have taken the opportunity of finding out, and, 
in plain words, absolutely false. Many medical men 
practically believe that, on the one hand, the existence 



SYMPTOMS AND DIAGNOSIS 



53 



of this reaction is sufficient to establish the syphilitic 
nature of any lesion borne by the patient who has 
supplied the serum examined, and, on the other hand, 
the absence of this reaction is sufficient to prove that 
the same lesion is not syphilitic. 

Without speaking of the intrinsic value of a Wasser- 
mann test, which depends upon the competence of the 
biologist who made it,* and with the quality of the anti- 
gen provided, it has been definitely established that 
this reaction does not appear at the same time as the 
chancre. It does not become positive until the end 
of a certain time and, when it is positive, the charac- 
teristics of the chancre are, as a rule, so clear that it 
brings no support to the diagnosis. 

Blumenthal's statistics, which are already old, will 
give some idea of the variations of the frequency of 
the Wassermann Reaction, in accordance with the age 
of the chancre. 



Infections dating from 


Number 
of cases 
studied. 


Positive 
Reactions. 


Negative 
Reactions. 


Proportion 
per 100 of the 
Positive 
Reactions. 


3 weeks 


, 


11 


1 


10 


9 per 100 


4 


. 




17 


2 


15 


11 , 






5 


. 




13 


6 


7 


46 , 






6 






23 


12 


11 


52 , 






7 






16 


11 


5 


68 , 






8 






13 


8 


5 


61 , 







* The Wassermann Reaction is in no way comparable to present 
chemical reactions : the substances used for the examination 
(antigen, complement) are of variable composition, and absolutely 
unknown dosage; the results themselves, i.e. the production or 
not of haemolysis, are often difficult to read and appreciate. 

Further, it is not rare, with the same serum, to see one observer 
obtain a negative, and another a positive, reaction; sometimes, 
indeed, the same observer will obtain a positive reaction one day 
and, a few days later, a negative one. 

It must be added that the different methods employed for the 
performance of this reaction give results very different from each 
other. 

Under these conditions, in estimating the reliance to be placed 
on a reaction, not only must one know the technique followed, but 
also by whom the examination was made. 



54 SYPHILIS AND THE ARMY 

These statistics show that it is only in the fifth week 
that the proportion of positive reactions is high enough 
for the results to be of any diagnostic importance in 
doubtful cases ; and at this period there is not long 
to wait before secondary symptoms appear. Even in 
the eighth week there are only two chances out of three 
of obtaining a positive reaction. 

According to the researches of Jeanselme and 
Vernes, the intensity of the Wassermann Reaction grows 
progressively during the course of the evolution of the 
syphilitic chancre. Comparison of the coloration 
obtained in several successive Wassermann Reactions 
might furnish an important element in the diagnosis 
of chancre. 

Unfortunately, these comparative colorimetric tests 
presuppose, at the same time, the use of an antigen 
of exact dosage and absolute constancy, with great 
expertness and constant experience of the Wassermann 
Reaction on the part of the operator. Even in civil 
practice, in times of peace, they are so difficult that I do 
not believe they have been followed up by any other 
observer. 

A last reflection on the value of the Wassermann 
Reaction in diagnosing syphilitic chancre. Being 
produced with the serum of old syphilitics, this reaction 
.occurs when they are affected by tertiary ulcerous 
syphilides of the genital organs, which simulate the 
chancre and have merited the name of chancriform 
syphilides. But chancriform syphilides admit of 
neither the same prognosis nor the same treatment, 
nor the same prophylactic measures of isolation as 
syphilitic chancre. One sees to what an error a medical 
man would expose himself in the presence of such 
lesions if he relied solely upon the Wassermann Re- 
action, without interpreting it by means of clinical 
indications and the patient's previous history. 

Therefore, interesting as this reaction is for the 
diagnosis of secondary syphilitic lesions, and more 



SYMPTOMS AND DIAGNOSIS 55 

especially of tertiary ones, it has but few applications 
in the diagnosis of syphilitic chancre. 

Differential Diagnosis of Syphilitic Chancre 

The affections most often confused with syphilitic 
chancre of the genital organs are : genital herpes, 
simple chancre, ecthyma, scabies, traumatic ulcerations, 
balanitis, gangrene of the genital organs, ulcerations 
caused for the purpose of simulation, epithelioma of 
the penis, secondary and tertiary syphilides, and 
certain ulcerations which appear after arsenical treat- 
ment of syphilis. 

Genital Herpes is characterised by circular ulcera- 
tions generally covered by a whitish coating, isolated 
from each other, frequently multiple, with polycyclic 
contours. These ulcerations are deeper than those of 
syphilitic chancre and have been preceded by fine 
transparent ephemeral vesicles, which the patients 
sometimes remember, but not always. The lesions 
appear in successive crops, and in some cases it is 
possible to find intact vesicles near the ulcerations. 
The irritation caused by dirty dressings may induce a 
certain amount of basal infiltration, which may simulate 
the induration of syphilitic chancre, but it is softer, and 
not so circumscribed as in the chancre. 

The lymphatic glands, despite what Ricord and 
Fournier have said, are influenced by genital herpes ; 
but the adenitis accompanying it, unlike that of a 
syphilitic chancre, is slight and painful on pressure 
and nearly always limited to one gland. 

The UULU.OO ux LUC two affections is different : 
herpetic ulceration heals rapidly. In a few days, in 
regions in which there is no moisture, such as the penis, 
it is replaced by a dry scab, which becomes detached 
and leaves a simple macule, which disappears in fifteen 
to twenty days, without apparent cicatrix. In moist 
regions it gradually shrinks up, its borders disappear, 



56 SYPHILIS AND THE AEMY 

and for some days it remains a simple reddish spot, 
then disappears without leaving any trace. 

Under the name of herpetiform chancres, a variety 
of syphilitic chancres have been described, charac- 
terised by their small dimensions and multiplicity ; 
but, no matter how small they are, they are always 
more extensive than herpetic ulcerations, and without 
their poly cyclic contours. 

Genital herpes is essentially a recurrent affection : 
its outbreaks, sometimes accompanied by pain in the 
course of the nerves of the genital organs, or of the 
thigh (Mauriac's neuralgic herpes), recur at varied 
intervals. The fact of relapse is important for diag- 
nostic purposes. Nevertheless, one must not rely on 
the existence of numerous previous attacks of herpes 
for eliminating syphilitic chancre ; the more so, as the 
syphilitic virus may be inoculated in the herpetic 
erosions. 

A first attack of herpes, occurring in a young man, 
and especially in one of thirty to thirty-five, no 
matter how characteristic it may be, must cause 
reserve as to the possibility of the later appearance 
of chancre. As a matter of fact, syphilitic chancre 
is sometimes seen to develop after and in the same 
place as a group of herpes (prechancrous herpes). 
Therefore, it is indispensable, in the case of a first 
attack of herpes, to keep the patient under observa- 
tion during fifteen to twenty days. 

Simple Chancre differs from syphilitic chancre in its 
irregular configuration and irregular surface, by the 
pus or yellowish coating which covers it, and especially 
by its characteristic edges. These are detached to a 
varying depth, but always enough at some spot to 
enable the point of a probe or edge of a spatula to 
be passed under them ; they are thin, and marked by 
a fine yellow border, similar to fresh butter. Moreover 
the base, even if infiltrated, is not indurated like that 
of the syphilitic chancre. 



SYMPTOMS AND DIAGNOSIS 57 

Simple chancre is rarely single ; the lesions, becoming 
easily inoculated, multiply and become much greater 
in number than in the case of syphilitic chancre. 

The condition of the lymphatic glands varies ; some- 
times they are painless and hardly perceptible, having 
retained their normal consistency ; at others they are 
often painful on movement and pressure, voluminous 
and suppurating (chancrous buboes). 

The secretory products of multiple chancre contain 
a more or less abundant quantity of Ducrey's bacillus. 
The elements of this bacillus, measuring I//, 5 in length 
by 0/Lt 5 in width, are isolated or united in fine chains 
of 2 or 3, with rounded extremities, resembling the 
figure 8 ; they are easily stained by Nicolle's method 
(gentian violet and tannin). Their demonstration is 
not easy, and can only be done satisfactorily by an 
expert bacteriologist. 

A very important characteristic of simple chancre 
is the possibility of indefinite inoculation on the bearer, 
as long as the healing process is not advanced. Inocula- 
tion is made by means of a lancet or vaccination 
needle, intra-epidermically, or by superficial and slight 
scarification. Care must be taken to avoid both 
accidental contamination of the inoculated spot and 
reinoculations of the experimental chancre, by covering 
the inoculated region with a watch-glass held in position 
by a strip of diachylon plaster. At the end of the first 
day a red inflammatory areola appears at the inocu- 
lated point, having nothing characteristic about it ; 
but on the third day, in the centre of the areola, the 
epidermis is raised in a small pustule filled with turbid 
fluid ; on the fourth day, the fluid has become clearly 
purulent ; the small pustule bursts and leaves a cup- 
shaped depression, with well-defined borders ; during 
the following days, the chancre increases in size and 
depth, its borders become detached, and there is basal 
suppuration. Naturally, directly the experimental 
lesion has acquired sufficiently clear characteristics 



58 SYPHILIS AND THE ARMY 

that is to say, on the third day, or at latest on the 
fourth or fifth its progress should be arrested, which 
can easily be done by cauterising it fairly deeply with 
the ther mo-cautery. 

Another characteristic of simple chancre is its short 
incubation period. I have already stated that a 
syphilitic chancre is the result of intercourse fifteen to 
twenty days previously at a minimum, whereas simple 
chancre appears two or three days after coitus. There- 
fore, if it can be proved that no sexual relations have 
taken place within the five or six days preceding the 
development of ulceration of the genital organs, this 
cannot be a simple chancre. 

In fact, there are rarely many difficulties in diag- 
nosing simple chancre ; but the proof of its presence 
does not mean that the patient has escaped syphilis. 
Indeed, as Rollet has shown, the difference in the 
duration of the incubation periods of simple and 
syphilitic chancres produces consequences of consider- 
able importance from the theoretical, as well as from 
the practical, point of view, which are as follows : the 
two viruses having been inoculated simultaneously 
during the course of a single coitus, may give rise to 
mixed infection ; the simple chancre appears first at 
its normal time, and develops in the usual way, but at 
the end of the syphilitic incubation period, the syphilitic 
chancre develops in its turn, blends its characters with 
those of the simple chancre, and gives rise to general 
syphilitic infection. 

In such a case, the simple chancre does not at first 
differ in any way from that which results from inocula- 
tion of its own virus. Very naturally, therefore, the 
medical man diagnoses simple chancre ; then, at the 
end of fifteen to twenty days, the ulcerative char- 
acteristics become modified, the base becomes hard, 
without any error of treatment or secondary infection 
the surface dries up, and its borders are less detached 
sometimes being completely levelled. 






SYMPTOMS AND DIAGNOSIS 59 



A mixed chancre, according to the happy expression 
of Rollet, is thus formed ; the lymphatic glands, 
which have been immune up to then, become hard, 
but not painful. 

It is not always easy to observe the transformation ; 
this can only be done by careful and repeated ex- 
aminations ; sometimes, at the end of several days, 
there is no further doubt ; at other times, the diagnosis 
remains uncertain. As these chancres are generally 
much infected, it is difficult to search for the spirochsete. 

As long as any doubt persists, anti-syphilitic treat- 
ment should be postponed, and sometimes it is only 
the appearance of roseola and secondary symptoms 
which enable the diagnosis to be settled. 

Ecthyma of the genital organs is rare, but not 
absolutely exceptional. It generally affects the penis, 
most frequently in the form of scabs. The scab, 
thick, greyish, often adherent, covers a regularly 
rounded ulceration, with well-defined edges, occasion- 
ally detached. The most noticeable characteristic is 
the existence of abundant suppuration under the 
crust, forming a more or less adherent layer over the 
whole surface of the ulcer ; below this, the base of 
the ulcer is bright red, bleeding easily, and a little 
uneven. It is not indurated. Ecthyma of the genital 
organs is often accompanied by swelling of the inguinal 
glands, which are painful on pressure. It coincides 
most frequently with ecthymatous lesions of other 
regions, especially of the legs, the existence of which 
may aid diagnosis. 

Scabies, which has a predilection for the human 
genital organs, generally causes small papules covered 
with greyish scabs. These lesions cannot be con- 
founded with chancre, as they are generally elongated, 
raised, and non-ulcerous. When, exceptionally, they 
develop into large pustules, these and the ulcerations 
which succeed them have all the characteristics of 
ecthyma. 



60 SYPHILIS AND THE ARMY 

The existence of indubitable signs of scabies does 
not imply that all co-existent ulcerations of the genital 
organs are of the same origin. There is risk of syphili- 
tic inoculation with scabies, on account of the solution 
of continuity it causes, and, in patients suffering from 
itch, syphilitic chancres are often multiple, owing to 
the multiplicity of these solutions of continuity. 

Common Excoriations of the Genital Organs, infected 
as the result of uncleanliness, may become sur- 
rounded by an inflammatory infiltration simulating 
chancrous induration ; careful examination, however, 
will show that there is no true induration. Wet 
dressings applied for two or three days, and the 
suppression of all causes of irritation, will induce all 
trace of inflammation to disappear, and show that it is 
merely a simple lesion, without genuine induration. 

Gangrene of the Genital Organs begins with appar- 
ently simple ulcerous lesions, often with basal infiltra- 
tion, but is soon revealed by the presence of a greyish 
or blackish plaque, surrounded by an infiltrated zone 
which is liable to spread. At the same time, there 
are usually general symptoms and often high fever. 
There is no possibility of confusion with syphilitic 
chancre. There are cases, however, iri which the 
gangrene situated on the gland is accompanied by 
intense oedematous inflammation of the prepuce as 
in concealed chancres of the prepuce. The existence 
of the eschar is only manifested by a discharge of sero- 
purulent or sanious fluid from the preputial orifice, 
resembling the secretion of an ulcerous balanitis. If 
this fluid is collected, its gangrenous odour attracts 
attention and aids in determining the presence of a 
sub-preputial eschar. 

Gangrenous lesions of the genital organs may 
develop with syphilitic chancre ; hence the diagnosis 
of gangrene does not exclude that of chancre. As 
chancre, when complicated by gangrene, loses all its 
objective characteristics, and further, as the presence 



SYMPTOMS AND DIAGNOSIS 61 

of various micro-organisms, and specially of spirilla, 
on the surface, prevents the discovery of any trepon- 
ema which might exist there, there may be doubt as 
to the presence of a chancre. In a case of gangrene 
of the genital organs, when prolonged observation did 
not enable me to detect any secondary syphilitic 
manifestation, the Wassermann Reaction, made on 
several occasions, was positive once, partially positive 
another time, and finally became and remained 
negative. I was told of another altogether similar 
case by Dr. Ristitch. There is, thus, reason to sup- 
pose that gangrene of the genital organs may cause a 
temporary Wassermann Reaction, and, until the most 
complete study has been made of the case, the diagnosis 
of syphilis should be suspended till the secondary 
manifestations have appeared to corroborate it. 

Ulcerations induced with the Object of Simulation may 
present objective characteristics resembling those 
of syphilitic chancre. All the same, it is rare for the 
resemblance to be close. In the few cases I have 
observed it was generally a question of burns from 
a lighted cigarette, a traumatism which produces 
regular rounded ulceration resembling simple, more 
than syphilitic, chancre. Even when, as the result 
of repeated irritations, the simulator succeeds in 
inducing a certain degree of infiltration of the ulcera- 
tive base, this is more diffuse than that of syphilitic 
chancre, and the absence of treponema is against this 
diagnosis. 

As a rule, the imitation is rougher and more 
clumsy still. I recently saw a dry, adherent, and 
circular eschar on a soldier, who stated that it 
was due to sexual intercourse some days before, and 
hoped that, thanks to this lesion, he would be passed 
as syphilitic and sent to hospital for some time. Even 
the character of the eschar, which was adherent and 
impossible to detach, as well as its almost circular 
configuration with an angular prolongation at one 



62 SYPHILIS AND THE ARM? 

peripheral point, testified to its artificial origin. I 
could not get an acknowledgment of trickery, nor a 
demonstration of the caustic employed, but I have 
reason to believe that it was produced by oxalic acid. 

Erosive and Ulcerous Balanitis is manifested by 
sero-purulent secretion and erosions : these erosions 
are multiple, irregular, often confluent, without basal 
induration, and can hardly be confused with syphilitic 
chancre. Their acute course, rapid cure by simple 
means, and the absence of enlargement of the inguinal 
glands, are points which settle the diagnosis. 

Epithelioma is rare on the genital organs. It may 
be observed there, however, even in men called up 
for military service. 

It commences either as a smooth, projecting tume- 
faction, or as a wart-like growth, which evolves slowly. 
It is only at the end of several months that ulcer ation 
appears : this is of variable extent, is often covered 
by a sanious secretion, has an irregular base of wood- 
like hardness. The prolonged duration of the affection, 
and, in default of a precise history from the patient 
or confidence in his assertions, the characteristics of 
the basal ulceration and extreme hardness of the 
edges should remove any suspicion of syphilitic chancre 
from the diagnosis. 

Syphilitic lesions may sometimes be confused with 
infective chancre. 

Erosive Mucous Plaques of the glans and prepuce 
consist, like the chancre, of superficial and circular 
loss of substance ; but they are even more superficial 
than the chancre, while their border, on the contrary, 
is often more defined, the limit between the healthy 
tegument and erosion, even if the plaque is not 
depressed, is abrupt, and marked by a more or less 
definite raised border. By means of careful palpation, 
it can be shown that their base is of firmer consistency 
than the adjacent parts, but it is nothing like that of 
chancrous induration. Sometimes, however, in the 



SYMPTOMS AND DIAGNOSIS 63 

midst of the erosive plaques with hardly any infiltra- 
tion, one will be encountered which is generally larger, 
with a slightly raised border and a firm base ; this is a 
mucous plaque developed on the site of the chancre, 
and by its direct transformation before complete 
cicatrisation. 

Certain tertiary ulcerations of the prepuce and 
especially of the glans simulate chancres so much 
that they have been regarded as recurrences. Alfred 
Fournier has called attention to them under the 
name of chancriform syphilides, and has made use of 
their existence as an argument in support of his too 
absolute opinion, that a chancre never recurs. 

Appearing always several years after the initial 
chancre, sometimes on the site of the cicatrix, these 
syphilides generally begin as a rounded projecting 
tumefaction, which softens and ulcerates at the centre. 
In a few days, the ulceration attains the average size 
of a small hazel-nut ; its form is rounded, its surface 
depressed, sometimes deeply excavated, often irregular 
and mammillated, its borders project, clearly marked, 
not detached ; it rests upon a firm infiltrated base ; 
the infiltration projects beyond the ulceration and 
forms a rounded nodule below it, differing from the 
induration of a chancre. 

On the whole, the ulcerative characteristics are 
those of a gumma rather than a chancre, and the 
histological structure, in two cases I was able to 
study, was that of gumma. 

The absence of treponemas in the scrapings from 
the ulceration, the positive Wassermann Reaction from 
the beginning of the lesion, the tendency to persistence 
until treatment is begun, and the rapid cicatrisation 
under its influence, indeed all the biological and 
evolutive characteristics, as well as the details of the 
clinical aspect, are those of ulcero-gummatous tertiary 
lesions. 

A certain number of the male bearers of these 



64 SYPHILIS AND THE ARMY 

ulcerous lesions blame a suspicious coitus as the cause 
of their appearance. Finger and Landsteiner inocu- 
lated tertiary syphilitics with the products of recent 
syphilitic lesions and produced at the point of inocula- 
tion, not a chancre, but a tertiary lesion, thus seeming 
to give some probability to the assertions of these 
patients. This is a question requiring investigation, 
which we need not consider further at present. It 
is none the less true that these lesions differ pro- 
foundly from chancre, and that, contrary to genuine 
chancrous recurrences, they do not give origin to a 
fresh attack of syphilis with secondary symptoms. 

The Pseudo-chancre of Syphilitics treated by Arseno- 
benzol. It is not unusual to see an ulcerous lesion 
appear in syphilitics, who have been subjected to 
arsenical injections, at the same point at which the 
initial chancre was situated and somewhat resembling 
the syphilitic chancre. Some too zealous partisans 
of arsenical medication have, without hesitation, 
regarded it as a second chancre, and a proof of the 
sterilisation of syphilis by arsenobenzol. 

The following is what occurs with this lesion, accord- 
ing to facts I have observed. 

Some variable time after the initial chancre and 
the arsenical treatment, often some days after inter- 
course with a syphilitic or non-syphilitic woman, an 
ulceration appears at the site of the chancre, which 
in a few days spreads and attains the dimension of a 
sixpence, a shilling, or more ; sometimes in the neigh- 
bourhood of the first, one, or more rarely two, other 
ulcerations appear within the space of a few days. 

When it has come to a head, the round or slightly 
oval, but always regular and clearly defined ulceration 
presents a regular or slightly mammillated base, 
covered with exudation or a whitish-grey detritus, 
rather creamy, and fairly easy to detach. When this 
exudation is removed the base appears red and some- 
times bleeds easily. The borders are often slightly 



SYMPTOMS AND DIAGNOSIS 65 

raised, clearly cut out, and sometimes slightly detached 
in places. 

The lymphatic glands are of normal size or slightly 
enlarged, unless they have remained enlarged after 
the healing of the initial chancre. 

The ulceration tends to persist for several days, 
rarely for some weeks ; it heals sometimes under 
moist dressings of boiled water, but at others only 
responds to mercurial treatment. 

Research for the treponema in the ulceration scrap- 
ings gives uncertain results, even after cleansing the 
surface. 

The Wassermann Reaction may be either positive 
or negative. 

If the patient is left without treatment, there is no 
evidence of secondary symptoms during the following 
weeks, as there would be if it were a case of syphilitic 
reinfection. 

Such is the ulceration which has been erroneously 
regarded as a recurrent syphilitic chancre : it differs 
from a chancre in all its objective characteristics, by 
its appearance a very few days after coitus, the usual 
absence of treponemas, and, finally, by the absence 
of secondary symptoms at the end of the classical 
period of secondary incubation. 

On the other hand, it was unknown before the use of 
arsenobenzol, and is only observed in syphilitics 
treated by the arsenical method. It cannot be attri- 
buted either to insufficient or excessive doses of arseno- 
benzol, for I have seen it appear in patients who had 
only received two injections of arsenobenzol, repre- 
senting about 1 gr. of this substance, and in others 
who had received 7, 8, or even 12 injections of 2, 4, 
or 5 grammes. 

This lesion requires further study. At present, it 

may be considered as one of the consequences of 

arsenical treatment, a consequence without any great 

clinical importance or apparent gravity, and of which 

5 



66 SYPHILIS AND THE ARMY 

the pathogenesis and conditions of development are 
not yet completely determined. But it should not be 
considered as a morphological deviation of chancre, nor 
as a recurrence of syphilitic infection. Its existence, 
without denying the possibility of a syphilitic reinfec- 
tion after treatment by arsenobenzol, should make one 
very cautious in interpreting cases of second chancre, 
and permits one to challenge a certain number of the 
observations published in support of the occurrence 
of this reinfection. 



EXTRA-GENITAL CHANCRES 

The syphilitic chancre may occupy all regions of the 
body without exception. The frequency of extra- 
genital chancres, their aspect even, which is unusual 
or at least deceptive in many of them, and especially 
the anomalous manner of contamination they generally 
show, give a special interest to their study. 

Extra-genital chancres do not appear to be very 
frequent in the Army, according to Carle's statistics. 

Nevertheless, despite their infrequency, owing to the 
difficulties of diagnosis they sometimes present, it is 
necessary to give an adequate account of their two 
most usual localisations, these being the only places 
in which, up to the present, I have observed them in 
soldiers.* 

The first, chancre of the lips, is important, because 
of its frequency ; the other, chancre of the tonsils, on 
account of the diagnostic errors to which it is liable. 

Chancre of the lips is not necessarily non-venereal 

* Mention must, however, be made of chancre of the beard 
(cheek and especially chin), usually the result of inoculation by the 
barber, by means of a razor or shaving-brush which has been used 
to shave a syphilitic. This chancre is often extensive and covered 
with scabs, below which is found a vegetating or oozing surface; 
its base is sometimes red, of inflammatory aspect, but manifestly 
indurated. The most important diagnostic characteristic is the 
adenopathy (sub- maxillary or sub- mental, according to the position), 
often enormous, which accompanies it. 



SYMPTOMS AND DIAGNOSIS 67 

any more than chancre of the tonsils ; both may be, 
and often are, transmitted by kisses or the projection 
into the mouth of saliva charged with syphilitic 
products. 

Still, the mere fact of the localisation is sufficient 
index for admitting the possibility of contamination by 
accidental non-venereal contact (tumbler, fork, pipe, 
end of cigarette, dentist's instrument, etc.) ; an 
inquiry is the only way of determining whether this 
presumption is well founded. This inquiry, however, 
is often extremely difficult, especially with subjects 
whose interest it is to disguise the real cause of con- 
tamination and attribute their malady to " innocent " 
contact. 

Chancre of the Lips. A syphilitic chancre may occupy 
both lips, but is much more frequent on the lower 
than on the upper lip ; its most usual position is in 
the centre involving both cutaneous and mucous por- 
tions. 

Of round shape, it projects from the free border of 
the lip in the shape of a pastille, the fore part of which 
is covered by a brownish, adherent scab ; removal of 
the scab is painful and sometimes causes bleeding. 
The surface is generally bright red, firm, smooth, 
regular, and clearly defined. 

If the patient's mouth is opened, the posterior part 
of the ulceration, which continues the contour of the 
anterior part and completes the circumference, appears 
moist and red, or covered by a whitish-grey coating, 
often resembling that of mucous plaques. 

The ulceration, of variable extent, from the size of 
a lentil to that of a sixpence or larger, rests on a tume- 
fied base ; the lip is deformed by this tumefaction and 
everted. 

On palpation, the base of the chancre is hard. The 
induration must be looked for in the same way as that 
of chancre of the genital organ and is easy to perceive, 
but often surrounded by an infiltrated zone, which 



68 SYPHILIS AND THE ARMY 

must be pressed upon in order to distinguish the 
induration itself. 

The adenopathy of chancre of the lips is always con- 
siderable and can be observed from a distance. It 
affects the sub-maxillary or sub-mental glands, forming 
a rounded eminence, often the size of a pigeon's egg. 
Palpation enables one to recognise one or more of 
the glands surrounded by an inflammatory zone of 
periadenitis, which sometimes seem to be adherent 
to the maxillary bone. 

The diagnosis of chancres of the lips is easy. Its 
development within a few days, often following an 
excoriation which has been present for some time, 
and which has rapidly become " festered," the eversion 
of the lip, basal induration, and considerable enlarge- 
ment of the glands, prevent all confusion with cancerous 
or other ulcerations of the region. Simple lesions, 
inflamed by local irritation and especially by unsuit- 
able dressings, may deceive, but their form is rarely 
as regular as that of chancre, and they are accompanied 
neither by marked basal induration nor by voluminous 
adenopathies. 

Microscopic examination of the scrapings is of little 
value in these cases, for the lips harbour a large number 
of different parasites, especially spirilla, which dissimu- 
late the presence of the treponema or may be confused 
with it. 

Chancre of the Tonsil. Tonsillar chancre is rare, 
but is liable to such frequent diagnostic errors that 
the syphilis to which it gives origin is generally not 
recognised until the secondary symptoms appear. 

It occupies one tonsil only, covering it almost 
entirely, but rarely extends beyond it. Its usual size 
is that of a sixpenny piece ; its shape is round, oval, 
or irregular. It sometimes appears as an erosion 
of a greyish, opaline, or red coloration, regular and 
smooth at the base, or made uneven by the irregularities 
of the tonsillar surface ; at other times it may be 



SYMPTOMS AND DIAGNOSIS 69 

ulcerous, even deeply so, of a reddish-brown or grey 
coloration ; occasionally it is covered by a pseudo- 
membranous exudation, white, thick, adherent, re- 
sembling that of diphtheria. 

Whatever its clinical form, tonsillar chancre always 
has two important characteristics : 

(1) Basal induration, appreciable with the ringer 
(covered for precautionary measures with a rubber 
finger-stall), or with a rigid instrument, tongue-depres- 
sor, etc., which should be handled gently and not 
pressed on its circumference, as in the examination of 
chancre of the genital organs, but on the surface itself. 

(2) Enlargement and induration of the lymphatic 
glands in the region of the angle of the jaw are often 
appreciable to sight and always to palpation. 

Contrary to most other localisations of syphilitic 
chancre, tonsillar chancre is frequently painful, owing 
both to its seat upon a mobile region and to the 
secondary infection of its surface. While often slight 
at the onset, within a few days the pain becomes acute, 
and persists for several weeks. 

The diagnosis of chancre of the tonsil depends more 
on the basal induration and sub-maxillary adenopathy 
than on the characters of the ulceration, which vary in 
different cases and may simulate the most diverse 
affections : simple tonsillitis, Vincent's angina, diph- 
theria, tonsillar abscess, tertiary syphilides, tuber- 
culous ulcerations, even epithelioma of the tonsil and 
gangrene of the pharynx. 

It is impossible here to enter into the differential 
diagnosis of these different affections, a diagnosis 
which is often difficult, even for skilled specialists, 
sy philologists, or laryngologists. I consider that, 
whenever a medical man has the slightest suspicion of 
chancre of the tonsil, he should, without delay, send the 
patient for examination by a syphilologist or laryn- 
gologist. I cannot emphasise too much the difficulties 
encountered in the bacteriological examination of such 



70 SYPHILIS AND THE ARMY 

lesions : it is practically impossible to discover the 
treponema in the scrapings of tonsillar chancre ; on 
the other hand, numerous spirilla may resemble it 
and deceive an observer who is not sufficiently wary ; 
finally the existence in the scrapings of clearly 
differentiated micro-organisms, even Loeffler's bacillus, 
is not sufficient to eliminate the possibility of a 
chancre evolving at the same time as another tonsillar 
infection. 

SECONDARY SYPHILIS 

Syphilitic chancre, with its satellite adenopathy, 
constitutes the whole symptomatology of primary 
syphilis ; it may even be already cicatrised before 
any clinical sign reveals general infection of the 
economy. 

But after a period, called that of second incubation, 
which from the beginning of the chancre is generally 
forty-two to forty-five days, roughly six weeks, 
general syphilitic symptoms begin to appear in cases 
which have not been modified by intensive treatment, 
constituting the secondary period of the disease. 

In this chapter I shall limit myself to summarising 
the principal manifestations of secondary syphilis. 
For the military surgeon, they are relatively less 
important than the chancre, not because they are less 
frequent in the Army, but because diagnosis is gener- 
ally easier, owing to the history of the initial chancre, 
generally easy to obtain, because their clinical forms 
are less varied than those of chancre, and also, because 
the Wassermann Reaction is almost constantly positive. 

General Phenomena 

The secondary period is accompanied by general 
phenomena : fever of variable type, which, in rare cases, 
may simulate typhoid, more or less marked general 
malaise, anaemia, the hsematological characters of which 




SYMPTOMS AND DIAGNOSIS 71 

are still indefinite, emaciation, often headache varying 
in intensity, generally nocturnal, sometimes continuing 
during the night and preventing sleep ; the lymphatic 
glands become enlarged and can be felt in all regions 
accessible to palpation, especially at the nape of the 
neck, in the neck, and above the olecranon. The 
viscera are subjected more or less to the action of the 
pathogenic agent of syphilis ; they react sometimes 
in the form of clinically appreciable disturbances ; 
as a rule, however, no symptoms reveal their implica- 
tion. 

Cutaneous Lesions 

The secondary period is especially that of cutaneous 
lesions. 

These lesions (secondary syphilides] have the follow- 
ing general characteristics : rounded form ; a tendency 
to form circles or semicircles when grouped on neigh- 
bouring points; red coloration, due to the combination 
of cutaneous congestion with a certain degree of dermic 
infiltration and pigmentation, a coloration which has 
been compared to that of copper, or lean ham ; some- 
times, but less often than is generally believed, there is, 
at the periphery, a slight epidermic elevation (Biett's 
collar) ; the tendency to generalisation or at least to 
very considerable extension, contrasts with the regional 
limitation of tertiary lesions ; the tendency of the 
lesions to polymorphism, is very great in certain 
papular forms ; the absence of pruritus ; finally, the 
tendency an exception being made to a particular 
form of syphilides occurring in malignant syphilis to 
heal without cicatrisation, but often leaving a cutaneous 
pigmentation which persists for some time. 

The co-existence of a positive Wassermann Reaction 
may aid diagnosis. 

The cutaneous lesions of secondary syphilis present 
the most varied dermatological types. 

Roseola, The erythematous type, or roseola, is 



72 SYPHILIS AND THE ARMY 

the most simple and the most frequent of all secondary 
syphilides. Generally appearing towards the forty-fifth 
day after the beginning of the chancre, syphilitic 
roseola first appears on the abdomen, then the internal 
surface of the thighs and trunk, afterwards extending 
to the neck and upper arms. The first pale, round 
elements may be difficult to recognise, and should be 
looked for carefully ; they soon multiply from day 
to day, till in a few days the eruption is complete. 
The medical man, who has been obliged to await the 
appearance of roseola before determining the diagnosis 
of an ulceration of the genital organs, should look 
out for it about the fortieth day after the commence- 
ment of the chancre ; when he has detected a few 
red spots all doubt will be removed by their rapid 
multiplication. 

Roseola consists of round spots, sometimes with 
ill-defined borders, the size of a lentil to that of a 
threepenny piece, isolated from each other ; these 
spots are sometimes flat (macular roseola), sometimes 
raised (papular roseola), or sprinkled with small pro- 
jections (granular roseola), sometimes raised and of a 
paler colour (Alfred Fournier's urticarial roseola). 

The colour of roseola disappears under pressure, 
leaving a slight yellowish macule. 

If not treated, syphilitic roseola persists for several 
weeks ; whereas, under the influence of treatment, 
it quickly fades and disappears gradually, without 
causing desquamation or leaving any trace beyond 
a very minute macule, faintly pigmented, which dis- 
appears in its turn in a few days. 

Along with this form of generalised roseola with 
round elements of small dimensions, which appears 
towards the seventh week of syphilis and is never 
reproduced during the whole course of the disease, 
another erythematous syphilide must be mentioned, 
known under the name of recurrent or delayed roseola. 
This appears at varying times, from three months 




SYMPTOMS AND DIAGNOSIS 73 



to fifteen months, rarely later, and may recur once 
or twice ; it consists of rose-coloured spots, paler 
than those of early roseola, and of larger dimensions, 
reaching the size of a two-shilling piece. These spots, 
like those of early roseola are sometimes nummular 
and of uniform coloration over their whole surface ; 
they are often circinate, their rose contour forming 
a more or less complete crown around a zone of normal 
skin. The spots disappear on pressure ; they are 
much less numerous than those of early roseola, and 
are often limited to one region of the body, principally 
the abdomen, but sometimes to the limbs. 

This recurrent roseola may develop in patients who 
had previously presented early roseola at the normal 
date ; but it is observed much more frequently in 
subjects who have been given arsenobenzol at the 
beginning of syphilis, and, not having followed regular 
treatment, have never had roseola. The interval 
between treatment and the commencement of delayed 
roseola is most variable, being three to four months 
most frequently. It appears that arsenobenzol, in 
inhibiting the appearance of the symptoms, has merely 
retarded the eruption, which, at the period at which 
it eventually appears, no longer does so under the 
form of generalised early roseola. 

Diagnosis of Syphilitic Roseola. Roseola, whether 
early or delayed, can hardly be confounded with any 
of the great exanthems, morbilli, rubella, which are 
easy to recognise by their exanthematous characteris- 
tics, rapid appearance, and general concomitant 
phenomena. 

Medicamental Erythemas, induced by various drugs 
(quinine, antipyrine, chloral, etc.), may appear in the 
form of isolated spots, resembling roseola ; their 
rapid development and especially the sensations of 
heat and pruritus which accompany them, distinguish 
them from this form of syphilide. 

Giberfs Pityriasis rosea is frequently mistaken for a 



74 SYPHILIS AND THE ARMY 

syphilitic roseola. It is only necessary to bear in 
mind the existence of this affection and the possibility 
of confusion in order to avoid it. Pityriasis rosea is 
characterised by a more or less abundant eruption of 
rose spots, of very varied dimensions, round when 
small, more frequently irregularly oval as soon as 
they attain the size of a sixpence, with rose-coloured 
contour, and bright chamois yellowish centre. The 
epidermis, which is always intact in syphilitic roseola, 
is slightly creased in pityriasis rosea, and, when the 
skin is stretched in the direction of the long axis of 
the plaque, it takes on the appearance of crepon ; 
moreover, without actually desquamating, it is often 
raised at the periphery of the chamois-coloured zone 
forming a fine white border. Pityriasis rosea gener- 
ally commences with a large oval patch (Blocq's 
" mother plaque "), which may attain the size of a 
two- to five-shilling piece ; this may appear on any 
part, usually the upper portion of the thorax, from 
whence other spots extend progressively to the abdo- 
men. The former existence of syphilitic chancre and 
the co-existence of mucous plaques are not sufficient 
to exclude the presence of pityriasis rosea, for this 
disease sometimes develops during the course of se- 
condary syphilis, without any accountable reason. 

Papular Syphilides. The cutaneous papular lesions 
of secondary syphilis are frequent and of varied aspect. 

Several very different kinds must be described : 

1. The syphilitic plaques of Bazin and Legendre, 
characterised by circular prominences, with sharp 
contours, round or oval, and red or brownish periphery ; 
the slightly depressed centre, generally of a brown 
colour, often shows superficial desquamation. These 
lesions appear at a variable date of the secondary 
period, sometimes before the roseola, but more fre- 
quently during its course and decline, and are often 
situated on the neck and upper part of the trunk. 

Lesions of the palms of the hands, frequent during 




SYMPTOMS AND DIAGNOSIS 75 

the secondary period, generally under the defective 
name of palmar psoriasis, must be included amongst 
syphilitic plaques. They consist of a central zone 
stripped of its epidermic covering and surrounded by 
a circular squamous elevation of variable thickness. 
They are situated symmetrically on both hands in 
varying numbers, sometimes being very numerous. 
They may appear at any time in the secondary period, 
and are cured completely by syphilitic treatment. 

In the folds (axillae, umbilicus, inguino-crural 
region, inter-gluteal fold, commissures of toes), the 
plaques become exudative or ulcerated, and their 
appearance is absolutely identical with that of plaques 
of the external genital organs ; like them, they may 
become hypertrophic. 

In the beard and scalp, they are covered by raised 
scabs, sometimes forming thick and oozing patches of 
varying size. 

Syphilitic plaques are frequent on the genital organs, 
and sometimes remarkably recurrent. Of erosive 
form on the prepuce and glans, where they resemble 
mucous lesions (hence the name of mucous plaques), 
on the scrotum they are erosive or ulcerous, often 
hypertrophic, prominent, and of papillomatoua appear- 
ance. 

2. Papular syphilides with large papules, which 
often begin before the disappearance of the roseola, 
are characterised by flat papules, rarely very pro- 
minent ; their dimensions may reach and exceed 
those of a large pea or a small hazel-nut ; generally 
well defined, surrounded by a collar of epidermic 
desquamation, they are of a more or less deep reddish- 
brown colour and of firm consistency. After a 
duration which is only limited by treatment, they 
subside and their colour fades, but a brown pigmented 
patch remains for several weeks, or months ; some- 
times wheals, when the eruption is situated on the trunk. 

Scales of varying thickness may develop on the 



76 SYPHILIS AND THE ARMY 

papules, resembling sometimes those of pityriasis, 
sometimes these of psoriasis ; the syphilides then take 
the name of papulo-squamous syphilides. 

The large papular syphilides may be situated on 
any region of the body, but have a certain predilection 
for the body, and, in alcoholics, for the face. 

They are indicative of grave syphilis, and nearly 
always coincide with an abundant lymphocytosis of 
the cerebro-spinal fluid (Ravaut). 

3. Syphilides with small papules always appear after 
roseola, sometimes at the moment of its disappearance 
and on the spots of the roseola. They have a tendency 
to form irregular groups, reminding one of constella- 
tions of stars, the groups being irregularly distributed 
over the trunk, but rarely on the limbs. 

Their elements, developed around the hair-follicles 
(hence the name of follicular syphilides) vary in appear- 
ance in different cases, often indeed in different groups 
of elements in the same patient, even in different 
elements of the same group ; thus exhibiting a 
polymorphism more pronounced than in any other 
syphilide. 

Some are prominent, acuminated, or smooth, 
covered by adherent epidermis, sometimes shining 
(lichenoid syphilides, still erroneously called syphilitic 
lichen) ; others have a slight central desquamation 
corresponding to the orifice of the hair-follicle, or a 
very small pustule, which dries up and is replaced by 
a thin scab (acneiform syphilide), also wrongly called 
syphilitic acne). 

These elements do not exceed a grain of millet- 
seed in size, hence the name miliary syphilides which 
has been given them. 

Small papular syphilides are often very resistant 
to treatment, even to an intensive course of arseno- 
benzol. 

They may be confused with Wilson's lichen, from 
which they differ essentially, besides their objective 



SYMPTOMS AND DIAGNOSIS 77 

characteristics, in the absence of pruritus, and especially 
with follicular tuberculide or lichen scrofulosorum, of 
which the elements occupy the same positions, and 
are disposed in the same way, but are larger and 
tend to suppurate ; moreover, lichen scrofulosorum 
is only found in patients with active tubercular lesions, 
specially adenitis and suppurative osteo-arthritis. 

Vesicular, Bullous, and Pustular Syphilides. These 
are rare ; the diagnosis rests upon the co-existence 
of syphilitic lesions in other situations, and on the 
previous existence of chancre. 

Ulcerative Syphilides. Ulcerative lesions are rare 
during the secondary period. They constitute a 
special form of syphilis, known under the name of 
malignant syphilis, which some authors have wrongly 
wished to separate from syphilis. 

They commence with flat nodules of a red or brownish 
colour which rapidly soften, forming round ulcers 
with sharply cut borders and an irregular base, covered 
by pus or by dry grey scabs, often limpet-shaped ; 
at the circumference of the ulcer is a red zone of 
infiltration of variable extent. These ulcers may 
reach three to four centimetres in diameter or more. 
They leave behind them deep circular cicatrices, often 
surrounded by a pigmented zone. 

The ulcers may be irregularly distributed all over 
the body ; they have, however, a predilection for the 
lower limbs. On the face, where they are seen but 
rarely, they sometimes cause extensive destruction 
and leave considerable deformity behind them. 

Malignant syphilis occurs in patients debilitated by 
privations, serious illnesses, and in " lymphatic " 
subjects. It appears to be but rarely observed in the 
Army. 

Pigmentary Syphilide. The pigmentary syphilide 
is much more common in a woman than a man, but 
it frequently attains a size and intensity in the latter 
which is altogether exceptional in a woman. 



78 SYPHILIS AND THE ARMY 

Contrary to the teaching of Alfred Fournier, who 
regarded it as a lesion sui generis, it is to-day well estab- 
lished that the pigmentary syphilide always follows 
in situ a previous cutaneous lesion, most frequently 
roseola, more rarely syphilitic plaques of the skin or 
papular syphilides. It is characterised by a greyish- 
brown coloration, of varying intensity, occupying the 
neck symmetrically ; on this pigmented and patchy 
surface are disseminated round areas, the colour of 
which, by contrast with the surrounding pigmentation, 
seems paler than that of the normal skin ; these areas, 
of a round or oval form, are of variable dimensions, 
generally on an average that of a large pea ; their 
boundaries are well defined ; their site and dimensions 
correspond exactly to that of the eruptive element, 
which preceded the pigmentary syphilide. 

In another variety of the pigmentary syphilide 
the pigmentation forms a border to the less dark 
zones. 

Tfce favourite site of the pigmentary syphilide is the 
neck, principally on the anterior and lateral surf aces ; 
from there it may extend to the upper part of the 
thorax and on to the back. 

In very extensive forms, which are relatively frequent 
in man, it is not limited to the cervical region, but 
occupies the periaxillary regions in front and behind, 
sometimes the groins, and may even extend to the 
trunk. 

The pigmentary syphilide, once established, persists 
for several months, and only disappears very slowly, 
no matter how intense the antisyphilitic treatment. 
It is of great value in diagnosis. 

The co-existence of cerebro-spinal lymphocytosis, 
established by Eavaut, gives a certain prognostic 
importance to the pigmentary syphilide, and is an 
indication for energetic treatment, in order to prevent 
the later development of serious lesions of the nervous 
centres. 



SYMPTOMS AND DIAGNOSIS 79 

Syphilitic Alopecia 

Alopecia is frequently a symptom of secondary 
syphilis, especially in cases not treated at all, or 
imperfectly treated. 

It appears without any apparent previous lesion of 
the scalp, without desquamation, as well as without 
objective phenomena, such as pain or pruritus ; the 
fall of hair, which becomes more and more abundant, 
leads to the production of areas of alopecia scattered 
irregularly over the scalp, resembling the empty 
spaces in a badly planted wood. 

It may be observed exceptionally in the beard. It 
frequently coincides with a pigmentary syphilide of 
the neck. 

This form of alopecia is almost pathognomonic of 
syphilis, for it is altogether exceptional in other general 
conditions (tuberculosis, convalescences from severe 
illnesses, etc.) which cause diffuse loss of hair. The 
bald areas of alopecia areata are larger and smoother 
than those of syphilis. 

It may, therefore, aid in the diagnosis of syphilis, 
and is worthy of attention as it may be the first syphili- 
tic manifestation noticed by the patient. Indeed, it is 
not rare to see it appear in subjects who have had a 
dwarf chancre which healed in a few days and was not 
noticed, who, probably, have not had any cutaneous 
syphilide, and in whom the most careful examination 
has only revealed a few slightly enlarged lymphatic 
glands and one or two small syphilitic plaques of the 
mouth. 

The presence of this alopecia is an indication for the 
most careful search for all the signs of syphilis, even 
the slightest, and, in the absence of any other sign, 
examination by the Wassermann Reaction. 

Syphilitic alopecia generally begins during the 
third month of syphilis ; it always heals without 
leaving any trace behind. It may heal spontaneously, 



80 SYPHILIS AND THE ARMY 

but cure is hastened by mercurial, and especially by 
arsenical treatment, which is sometimes followed by a 
regrowth of hair more abundant than before the 
syphilis. 

Lesions of the Nails 

The nails may be attacked during the course of 
secondary syphilis, become cracked, detached, or 
hypertrophied. More frequently, after periungual 
syphilides, swelling of the bed of the nail (perionyxis) 
may develop. 

Lesions of the Mucous Membranes 

All lesions developed during the course of secondary 
syphilis on the visible mucous membranes may be 
reduced to two ; diffuse erythematous inflammations, 
often transient, seen usually on the pharynx, and the 
mucous plaque. 

Wherever situated, the mucous plaque begins as a 
round lesion with slightly raised edges and an eroded, 
slightly depressed centre. The erosion, of variable 
extent, is red and exudative. The border is red on 
mucous membranes that are simply moist ; on those 
of the digestive tracts, its constant impregnation by 
saliva gives it whitish or opaline colour. 

The configuration of the parts which are the seat of 
mucous plaques modifies their form, and makes them 
irregular or fissured, especially on the lips. 

Local irritations and infections may modify their 
appearance and cause deep ulceration, or on the 
other hand, hypertrophy and a papillomatous appear- 
ance (hypertrophic mucous plaque, condyloma latum). 

Lesions of the Buccal Mucous Membrane. Mucous 
plaques may occupy different regions of the buccal 
cavity. On the lips they are situated either on the 
commissures, in the form of round erosions with a 
raised border ; they are rarely hypertrophic, except 
in patients who smoke much and place the cigarette 



SYMPTOMS AND DIAGNOSIS 81 

or pipe at the corner of the mouth : or on the free 
border, in the form of round erosions, with a white 
margin, a deep red and flat base, exudative and some- 
times covered with a scab ; this last localisation occurs 
almost exclusively in smokers. 

On the internal surface of the cheeks the plaques are 
usually erosive, round, or slightly irregular, red in the 
centre ; the border and a more or less extensive por- 
tion of the centre is often white, sometimes like silver, 
resembling leucoplakia. 

Mucous plaques must not be confused with mercurial 
stomatitis, the lesions of which first affect the gums 
but may also occur on the cheeks ; with aphthae 
(thrush) which consist of round plaques, covered with a 
white creamy or slightly yellow deposit and evolving 
rapidly ; with lesions artificially induced (burns from 
a cigarette, acid, etc.), which are round, regular, and 
covered with a white deposit, sometimes detached at 
one part (rupture of the phlyctenule) and healing 
rapidly ; with the plaques of leucoplakia, which are 
more irregular, more extensive, and occupy principally, 
either the neighbourhood of the labial commissure, or 
that of the large molars. This last diagnosis is of real 
importance, a certain number of soldiers attacked 
by leucoplakia, due to former syphilis, exploit their 
lesions to gain admittance to hospital, when there is no 
reason for this, the lesion being non-contagious. 

On the tongue, mucous plaques often assume a 
special aspect, owing to the papillary structure of the 
mucous membrane : they are round or oval, clearly 
defined, flat, with no trace of papillae (depapillated 
plaques). Sometimes they are erosive, regular or 
irregular, surrounded by a white or opaline border. 

Mucous plaques may be confused with marginate 
exfoliative glossitis. This differs in the irregularity 
and variability of its contour, which has been com- 
pared with that of a geographical map, and by its 
white, slightly raised, clearly marked border, the 

6 



82 SYPHILIS AND THE ARMY 

eccentric and irregular progression of which extends 
from day to day ; with leucoplakia, which has been 
referred to above ; with Wilson's lichen, a much rarer 
and more persistent affection, the lingual lesions of 
which coincide with the white spots on the mucous 
membrane of the inner surface of the cheeks, and 
with very pruriginous cutaneous lesions. 

Lesions of the Pharynx 

These are of great frequency, more so perhaps than 
those of the mouth. 

On the soft palate, they consist in mucous plaques of 
regular or irregular form, generally opaline, as if a 
slight coating of pale grey paint had been spread over 
the mucous membrane ; they are rarely erosive. They 
often attain considerable dimensions, forming a large 
surface of vivid or deep red on one or both of the 
anterior pillars, limited by a semicircular, slightly 
projecting border, forming a kind of large arcade 
(giant plaques of the soft palate). 

Sometimes, at the beginning of syphilis, a diffuse 
bright redness is observed. 

The tonsils may be the seat of various lesions : they 
are very often hypertrophied, voluminous, irregular, of 
almost normal or reddish colour, and firm consistency, 
more pronounced than in common tonsillar hyper- 
trophy. The mucous plaques, sometimes opaline, 
sometimes erosive, are often very numerous, sometimes 
small and difficult to discover. 

In certain cases the lesions attain very considerable 
development : the plaques occupy almost the entire 
tonsil, and are covered by a thick, greyish white, 
adherent deposit, beneath which the tonsillar tissue is 
ulcerated and bleeds easily. This diphtheroid form of 
syphilitic angina may be confused with diphtheria, 
and with Vincent's angina. 

The last confusion is the easier because Vincent's 




SYMPTOMS AND DIAGNOSIS 83 

spirillar infection may be grafted on syphilitic lesions 
of the tonsil, or coincide with secondary syphilis. 

Visceral Affections 

Secondary syphilis may attack all the viscera and 
tissues ; I shall only describe the most important of 
the deep localisations. 

Nervous Affections of varying intensity and gravity 
are frequent during the course of secondary syphilis. 

Headache is extremely frequent, practically constant 
in untreated syphilis : sometimes frontal, sometimes 
occipital, in some patients it is so severe as to prevent 
sleep ; it is characterised by its occurrence or exacerba- 
tion in the evening or at night. It is often, but not 
always, accompanied by hypertension and lymphocy- 
tosis of the cerebro-spinal fluid, even if the headache is 
not very violent ; it is sometimes, but not always, 
relieved by lumbar puncture. In certain cases it is 
due to endo-cranial periostoses, and is then both intense 
and persistent. 

Grave cerebro-meningeal symptoms maybe observed 
during the course of secondary syphilis. 

These symptoms assume various clinical types. 

Hemiplegia, either preceded or not by premonitory 
signs, such as difficulty in speech, cerebral fatigue, or 
headache, occasionally commences suddenly. It is 
established progressively within a few hours, soon be- 
coming complete, and at the same time intellectual 
obnubilation ends in more or less complete coma. It 
may be followed by death in some hours ; more 
frequently the patient recovers, but is often left with 
paralysis and contractures. 

When affecting the right side of the body, it is often 
accompanied by aphasia, which is generally curable. 

Of all the nervous manifestations of syphilis, hemi- 
plegia is the one most likely to appear at an early 
date. It may precede other secondary symptoms and 



84 SYPHILIS AND THE ARMY 

occur even in the first days of syphilitic evolution : 
in a case of Millard's, which terminated fatally, the 
chancre had only been in existence eleven days. 

At the post mortem, special lesions of the arteries 
at the base of the brain are found, as well as meningeal 
changes. 

Facial paralysis, of peripheral type, is more frequent 
than hemiplegia ; it generally occurs in the second 
or third month. 

Paralysis of the oculo-motor muscles is more rare, but 
may accompany facial paralysis. 

These paralyses are the result of basal meningitis, 
causing compression of the corresponding nerves, as 
it produces compression of the optic and auditory 
nerves. 

The spinal meninges participate in the process of 
basal meningitis. 

Along with rare cases, manifested by definite symp- 
toms of spinal meningitis and acute meningo-myelitis, 
there are other more common cases, in which the 
meningeal changes are not revealed by appreciable 
objective symptoms ; in these cases lumbar puncture 
shows the presence of lymphocytosis of the cerebro-spinal 
fluid and albumen in this fluid. Ravaut has shown 
the frequency of cerebro-spinal lymphocytosis in 
secondary syphilis and proved that it may indicate the 
later development of serious cerebro-spinal lesions. 

The sensory organs may be attacked during secondary 
syphilis. 

Deafness, tinnitus, and vertigo may be caused by 
lesions of the auditory nerve and labyrinth. These 
affections, to which attention has been directed since 
the use of arsenical preparations, were known of before 
the discovery of arsenobenzol, but appear to be par- 
ticularly frequent in patients treated with this substance. 

Optical lesions are much more common. 

Iritis is the easiest to recognise, and the most apparent 
of all ocular lesions ; it generally develops between the 



SYMPTOMS AND DIAGNOSIS 85 

fifth to the tenth month after the chancre, usually 
about the sixth month, sometimes earlier, and must be 
regarded as indicative of particularly severe syphilis. 

Generally unilateral, it is manifested by periorbital 
pains of varying intensity, often slight, by photophobia 
and more or less pronounced diminution of visual 
acuteness as well as by objective symptoms which any 
medical man, even if not versed in practical ophthal- 
mology, must know and cannot fail to recognise : more 
or less marked pericorneal injection, change in the 
colour of the iris, which loses its brilliant appearance 
and takes on a greyish tint, contraction and immobility 
of the pupil, due to congestion of the iris or adhesions. 
Atropine dropped into the eye induces dilatation of 
the pupil ; but if adhesions are present, the dilatation 
is unequal and the pupil irregular. 

Syphilitic iritis assumes various clinical forms 
(serous iritis, gummous iritis, etc.) into the details of 
which I cannot enter here. It is sufficient for me to 
point out the signs by which it can be recognised, for 
its gravity is such that every syphilitic patient suffer- 
ing from iritis should be subjected to examination by 
an ophthalmic surgeon. 

Again, iritis frequently accompanies lesions of the 
deeper portions of the eye, such as cyclitis and choroi- 
ditis. 

Optic neuritis and retinitis are frequent during the 
secondary period of syphilis, even at the beginning. 
They are often unrevealed by any functional symptom, 
and can only be recognised by examination of the 
fundus of the eye. In default of the systematic 
examination of all syphilitics by an ophthalmologist, a 
large number of these complications pass unnoticed. 
I may add that they are accompanied by lymphocytosis 
of the cerebro-spinal fluid. 

Secondary Syphilitic Icterus is characterised by its 
appearance in conjunction with generalised eruptions ; 
it is accompanied by phenomena of biliary retention, but 



86 SYPHILIS AND THE ARMY 

the gastric troubles of catarrhal icterus are generally 
absent. It usually terminates in recovery without 
any complication, within fifteen to twenty days ; a 
few rare cases of grave icterus in secondary syphilis 
have been reported, presenting the ordinary sympto- 
matology of this syndrome. 

Secondary syphilitic icterus would appear to belong 
to the class of hsemolytic icteri, according to recent 
researches, particularly those of Gaucher and Giroux. 

Secondary Syphilitic Nephritis, apart from any former 
renal taint, generally occurs in the third and eighth 
month of syphilis. It is revealed most frequently by 
sudden and considerable dropsy, and by albuminuria, 
which frequently reaches 10 to 15 grammes daily, some- 
times even 50 grammes. More or less pronounced 
signs of uraemia may accompany the dropsy : vomiting, 
headache, etc. Recovery is the rule, provided the patient 
is energetically treated, and as soon as possible after 
the beginning of the disease ; it is often slow, and the 
albuminuria may persist for several months. 

Finally, I must mention Phlebitis, which is frequent 
during the secondary period and often coincides with 
the roseola. It affects the superficial veins of the 
lower limbs, and nearly always several of them simul- 
taneously, often those of both legs. It is characterised 
by the development of hard cords, neither voluminous 
nor painful, often indeed painless, and never gives rise 
to oedema or embolism. 

GENERALITIES OF TERTIARY SYPHILIS 

There is no necessity to describe the tertiary lesions 
of syphilis ; they are met with relatively seldom in 
military practice, and have no special indications, 
apart from the question, not without importance, of 
the invaliding they may bring about. Their treat- 
ment offers no particular indication, beyond the neces- 
sity, always important in the army, of carrying out as 




SYMPTOMS AND DIAGNOSIS 87 

actively as possible the cure of soldiers who, after 
recovery, may be again sent to their unit. Although 
certain localisations of tertiary syphilis may be con- 
tagious, this is so exceptional that there is never any 
necessity to send a tertiary syphilitic to hospital when 
the lesions by which he is affected do not interfere 
with the performance of his military duty, or do not 
necessitate energetic treatment incompatible with the 
obligations of service. 

I must insist upon this last point, because I have 
too frequently seen men sent to hospital who were 
suffering from tertiary lesions of the skin or tongue, 
neither ulcerated nor painful, which did not in any way 
prevent them from carrying out their duties, and 
only required treatment which could easily be carried 
out with the unit. Men often take advantage of their 
disease to impose on the medical man. 

I shall only briefly summarise the principal localisa- 
tions of tertiary syphilis. 

As regards the skin, syphilides of various types are 
observed, papular, papulo-tubercular, ulcerous, gum- 
matous, always characterised by : (1) their form, which 
is nearly always round, or reniform, and their dis- 
position in groups of more or less rounded configuration, 
and by centrifugal extension when they are multiple ; 
(2) the small number of their elements, and their 
habitual limitation to one region of the body or to a 
small number of regions, contrary to secondary syphi- 
lides, which are usually generalised ; (3) the tendency 
to ulceration, or, if they do not ulcerate, to interstitial 
absorption of the invaded tissues ; hence the usual 
persistence of indelible cicatrices, often, but not always, 
surrounded by a zone of pigmentation ; (4) the absence 
of functional phenomena, pruritus, and pain, except 
when there is ulceration, and often even when they are 
situated in the neighbourhood of orifices and in very 
mobile regions. 

The diagnosis of tertiary syphilitic lesions rests on 



88 SYPHILIS AND THE ARMY 

these characteristics : on the former existence of 
recognised syphilitic affections (it must be borne in 
mind that syphilitic antecedents are frequently absent, 
less often, however, in a man than a woman), on the 
verification of syphilitic stigmata, cutaneous cica- 
trices, Argyll Robertson sign, abolition of the tendon 
reflexes, on the existence of a positive Wassermann 
Reaction ; in doubtful cases, rapid recovery by mer- 
curial, arsenical, or iodide treatment may settle the 
diagnosis. 

The most frequent lesions of the accessible mucous 
membranes areulcerationsandsclero-gummatous lesions 
of the tongue, with or without leucoplakia, or at least 
certain of its forms, for it would be, at the present time, 
excessive to state that leucoplakia is always caused by 
syphilis ; ulcerous lesions of the soft palate, leading 
generally to rapid perforation, and which it is neces- 
sary to treat very actively from the beginning. 

The visceral, arterial, cardiac, nervous, hepatic, and 
other lesions, which constitute an important part of 
internal pathology, need not be described here. 



CHAPTER V 

TREATMENT OF SYPHILIS 

THE SPECIAL CONDITIONS OF THE TREATMENT 
OF SYPHILIS IN THE ARMY 

THE anti-syphilitic medicaments may be reduced to 
three substances mercury, iodine, arsenic ; but the 
methods of administration and the preparations of these 
three substances are numerous. Each syphilologist 
has made a choice amongst these preparations, and laid 
down special rules for their application, which seem to 
him to respond best to the therapeutic indications of 
syphilis. Thus, he has evolved an elective type of 
syphilitic treatment which he habitually employs ; but, 
if he has the medical spirit, he knows how to deviate 
from this type and modify it, according to the indica- 
tions of each case, as well as to the social condition 
of the patients. 

The conditions of military He, more especially those 
of the present war, introduce special indications and 
choice of treatment, which military surgeons and 
syphilologists must take into account. In default of 
this adaptation to military conditions, the doctor will 
meet with great difficulties, sometimes the formal 
opposition of the staff to the execution of the treat- 
ment he prescribes : indeed, he may cause a useless 
reduction of effectives and cripple the necessities of 
national defence. 

89 



90 SYPHILIS AND THE ARMY 

Let us first consider the special indications in the 
army during the present war. 

In the case of combatant soldiers at the Front, men 
remaining at the depots, or employed in the interior, 
especially men in munition works, attacked by a con- 
tagious disease of any kind, it is necessary, in the first 
place, to put them out of the way of doing harm to 
others by transmission of their disease. On the other 
hand, they must be rendered fit for service in their 
companies or workshops as soon as possible, and the 
evil effects resulting from their disease must be re- 
reduced to a minimum. 

In the case of syphilis, these necessities indicate 
two precepts : 

(1) Cause the disappearance, by the most energetic 
treatment possible of contagious lesions, which, for- 
tunately, develop on surfaces accessible to direct 
examination, and may, consequently, be recognised 
and watched. 

(2) When the contagious lesions are healed, the 
treatment should be continued, less energetically than 
at first, but sufficiently to protect the man from later 
contagious lesions and the different manifestations of 
the disease, by processes which do not hinder his mili- 
tary duties from being carried out. 

Certainly, the problem would be solved in its entirety, 
if one knew of a sure and rapid method of sterilising 
syphilis by medicamental or biotherapeutic treatment. 
Despite the somewhat incautious pretensions held out 
by Ehrlich on the action of arsenobenzol, the problem 
has not been solved ; I shall show later what one must 
think about this subject. 

We must, therefore, content ourselves with the 
measures at our disposal to do the best we can, under 
somewhat contradictory conditions, to deal with the 
problem of the treatment of syphilis in the Army. 

In order to determine these measures and their 
application, it is necessary to find out what can be 



TREATMENT OF SYPHILIS 91 

expected of the different antisyphilitic agents and their 
various modes of employment. 

I will first of all eliminate iodine and its different com- 
pounds, iodide of potassium and of sodium, tincture of 
iodine, organic preparations of iodine, etc. All these 
agents have their proper place in the antisyphilitic 
arsenal ; but, with the exception of mercurial iodides, 
which will be studied with the mercurial compounds, 
their place is in the background. They are almost 
entirely without action on the sterilisation of syphilis, 
on its first manifestations, or its various contagious 
lesions, and, in any case, cannot be considered in the 
primary or secondary periods, either as active agents 
of treatment or as having a prophylactic action on 
subsequent complications. It is during the course of 
the tertiary manifestations that they have a real value 
in the treatment of gummatous or ulcero-gummatous 
syphilides of the skin and mucous membranes, or on 
the cardio-vascular lesions, so common in syphilis. 
But tertiary lesions are beyond the scope of this 
study. 

There remain, then, mercury and arsenic. 

MERCURY 

As regards syphilitic therapy in the Army, there is 
one point of great importance. This is the mode of 
administration of medicaments. 

The conditions for supplying bodies of troops and 
medical centres with drugs, for distributing these to the 
patients, and, in the case of prolonged treatment for 
which the soldier cannot present himself daily at the 
hospital, the necessity of his being able to take his 
supply of drugs with him ; the advantage there is in 
men, and especially officers, being treated in more or 
less secrecy, are some of the principal considerations 
which must guide the military surgeon in his selection 
of the method of treatment apart from the special 
action and form of the drugs. 



92 SYPHILIS AND THE ARMY 

I shall, therefore, consider successively : 

(1) Mercurial medication by ingestion (solution, 
syrups, pills, tabloids, cachets) ; 

(2) Mercurial medication per rectum (suppositories) ; 

(3) So-called endermic mercurial medication (rub- 
bings) ; 

(4) Intramuscular mercurial medication (injections 
of soluble and insoluble preparations) ; 

(5) Intravenous mercurial medication. 

Mercurial Medication by Ingestion 

(a) Solutions and Syrups. These two pharmaceu- 
tical forms are absolutely inapplicable at the front, by 
reason of the difficulties there would be in supplying 
the regimental hospitals, and the impossibility of 
transporting the liquids. 

In medical centres in the interior there would still 
be the inconvenience of manipulation of large quanti- 
ties of liquids. 

Although the absorption of a drug in solution is 
more regular than in the form of pills, these or tabloids 
completely replace the solutions. 

However, in some cases especially of tertiary 
lesions, which are rarely observed in the Army and are 
beyond the scope of this study van Swieten's* 
Liquor in small doses, according to Brocq's method 
(five cubic centimetres administered four to six times 
daily) is better than treatment by pills. 

With regard to mercurial syrups, of whatever kind, 
there is no reason to use them in the Army. Gibert's 
syrup, the best known and most used among them, 
is a bad preparation, often causing gastralgia ; its 
dosage in iodide of potassium is insufficient for 

* Van Swieten's Liquor, a solution of sublimate in a thousandth 
part, is given in the Formulaire pharmaceutique des hopitaux mili- 
taires, and the preparation is prescribed without alcohol. ( j 



TREATMENT OF SYPHILIS 93 

carrying out mixed treatment with iodide and 
mercury.* 

(b) Pills, tabloids, cachets. For a long time, pills 
have been the form in which drugs are most used in the 
treatment of syphilis : " Treatment, easy to carry out 
in secret, even when travelling," according to the well- 
known formula. 

They have the great advantage of being easily taken 
about and of keeping a fairly long time, and are con- 
sequently capable of being stocked in all hospitals 
and medical centres. They can be given to men for 
continuous and prolonged treatment without obliging 
them to report frequently to the doctor. They must 
be well prepared, the pill mass should be soft, with a 
sufficient quantity of glycerine added to prevent desic- 
cation. When hard as stones, as they are sometimes, 
they pass through the digestive tract undissolved and 
are rejected without doing more than simulate treat- 
ment. 

The Formulaire pharmaceutique des hopitaux mill- 
taires mentions no other mercurial pills, except those of 
protoiodide of mercury. 

The formula is as follows : 

Protoiodide of mercury . . . . 2 gr. 50 

Powdered opium . . . . 1 ,, 

Powdered liquorice . . . . . . 2 

Extract of juniper . . . . . Q.a. 

D. in 100 pills. 

Each pill contains 25 milligrammes of protoiodide of 
mercury, a very judicious dosage, which enables the 

* Gibert's Syrup is given in the Formulaire pharmaceutique dea 
hopitaux militaires under the name of mercuric iodide. Its com- 
position is as follows : 

Mercuric iodide . . . . . . 1 gr. 

Iodide of potassium . . . . 50 ,, 

Distilled water . . . . . . 50 ,, 

Simple syrup ...... 900 ,, 

Therefore, per 20 gr. it contains a centigramme of mercuric iodide 
and 50 centigrammes of iodide of potassium. 



94 SYPHILIS AND THE ARMY 

daily dose to be graduated according to the tolerance 
of the patients, and far preferable to the dosage of 
5 centigrammes in Ricord's pills. 

The difficulty of this formula is to supply pills which 
dissolve easily when they have been prepared a 
certain time. Medical men must, therefore, be careful 
to renew their supplies at sufficiently short intervals, 
without waiting for the period of quarterly supply for 
drugs. 

When patients wish to pay themselves for their 
supply of protoiodide pills, it will be better to give 
them the following prescription for a soft pill : 

Protoiodide of mercury . . . . .25 mgr. 
Extract of thebaine ..... 1 cgr. 
Glycerine excipient . . . . Q.a. 

Protoiodide of mercury is, par excellence, the drug 
for secondary syphilis : its renown for this period is 
universal. It has the advantage of being tolerated 
by the stomach, but produces salivation more easily 
than sublimate. 

The usual dose of protoiodide to be prescribed daily 
is 10 centigrammes ; this represents four pills to be 
taken four times daily, after meals. 

Certain patients cannot tolerate protoiodide well, 
in which case another mercurial salt must be given. 
The best is sublimate, the basis of Dupuytren's famous 
pills. 

Sublimate pills do not figure in the Formulaire des 
hopitaux militaires, and so are not supplied in quanti- 
ties to regimental hospitals : they can only be made 
up in medical centres provided with a chemist, or from 
prescriptions made up by a civil chemist. 

The simplest formula is the following : 

Corrosive sublimate . . . . \ 

Extract of thebaine .... /one centigramme 
Glycerine excipient . Q-s. 

for a soft pill. 



TREATMENT OF SYPHILIS 95 

Usual daily dose : 2 pills, i.e. 2 centigrammes of 
sublimate. 

Sublimate is generally tolerated well by the gums, but 
often causes gastric pains or diarrhoea ; it may be useful 
then to increase thedoseof extractof thebaine in the pills. 

Compressed tabloids are used too rarely for the 
administration of mercury. They have the advant- 
age of pills, in dissolving easily and completely. 

The Central Pharmacy for Military Hospitals sup- 
plies tabloids containing 0'025 gr. of protoiodide of 
mercury for the use of regimental infirmaries and medical 
centres, which can be used in the place of pills. I 
believe that these tabloids are now being supplied. 

Cachets are rarely employed as a medium for the 
administration of mercury. A few years ago, Alex. 
Renault recommended them for this purpose, and they 
constitute an improvement on mercurial pills : the 
rapid and complete absorption of the drug is assured 
by this form, which can be easily transported and 
only necessitates more careful packing. 

Mercurial cachets are not entered in the nomencla- 
ture of drugs supplied by the Central Pharmacy for 
Military Hospitals. 

All men in a position to bear the expense, especially 
officers, who prefer them to pills because they are less 
compromising, can procure them at their own cost. 

Protoiodide of mercury is the only mercurial salt 
suitable for administration in cachets ; if sublimate 
were introduced undissolved into the stomach there 
would be a risk of causing erosions or chemical ulcera- 
tions ; calomel is unsuitable, owing to its somewhat 
irregular action, and its transformation into sublimate 
under the influence of certain foods. 

The following is Alex. Renault's formula for cachets : 

Protoiodide of mercury . . 5 cgr. 

Powdered opium . . . . 1 or 2 cgr. 

Powdered cinchona ..... Q.a. 

to fill a small 25 centigrammes cachet. 



96 SYPHILIS AND THE ARMY 

He prescribes 4 per day, i.e. 20 centigrammes of 
protoiodide of mercury. 

I prefer using cachets with a dosage of half the 
quantity, i.e. 25 milligrammes of protoiodide, and not to 
exceed the daily amount of 10 centigrammes of this salt. 

The various modes of administration of mercury by 
the mouth, together with mercurial inunction, were for 
a long time the only means of treating syphilis. 

Although they have a real action on syphilis, and 
especially on secondary troubles, it is acknowledged 
that this action is weak and in no way comparable to 
that of the drugs which will be considered later on. 

They cannot in any way be used to attack the 
disease at its onset, bring about the abrupt cicatrisa- 
tion of chancre, or the rapid cure of mucous plaques. 

They must, therefore, never enter into the initial 
treatment of syphilis, in the intensive treatment given 
in hospital for sterilising contagious symptoms. 

But they have a real value as a means of continuous 
and prolonged mercurialisation, after cure of the 
contagious troubles, as a means of maintaining treat- 
ment by Fournier's " intermittent cure." 

As men can carry them easily, or renew their stock 
when exhausted, pills, tabloids, and cachets should 
be prescribed for them when they are leaving the 
hospital, after they have been subjected to intensive 
treatment, and when they require treatment for some 
non-contagious manifestation, compatible with the 
continuation of their military service. 

If the various ways of buccal mercurial administra- 
tion have the advantage of avoiding the necessity of 
the patient's frequent visits to the doctor, they have, 
on the other hand, the disadvantage of removing him 
from direct medical supervision. Here, it is necessary 
to rely on the patient to attend to himself regularly. 
The doctor must warn him not to neglect the ingestion 
of the pills or cachets. 



TREATMENT OF SYPHILIS 97 

With regard to the general cure of syphilis, I shall 
indicate the progress of treatment by pills later (see 
page 146). 

Mercurial Medication per Rectum 

Rectal mercurial medication by means of suppositories 
is but rarely used, too seldom in fact. 

Recommended by Charles Audry (Toulouse) it is well 
borne, and but rarely gives rise to local trouble ; it has 
the great advantage of protecting the upper digestive 
tracts in patients, numerous amongst colonial troops, 
whose stomach and small intestine cannot tolerate 
mercury administered by ingestion. With these 
patients, as with gastropaths in general, it replaces 
subcutaneous and intramuscular injections of mercury 
which, as we shall see, are not often applicable to 
syphilis in the army. 

Mercurial suppositories cannot be kept as long as 
pills, necessitate more careful preparation, much more 
complicated packing, take up a little more room, are 
more expensive than pills, and finally are not included 
in the Pharmaceutical Formulary for Military Hospitals ; 
so that they can only be used by soldiers under treat- 
ment in certain medical centres, or who are able to 
buy them. 

Their indications are almost similar to those of 
mercurial cachets, with this difference that they are 
suitable for patients suffering from lesions or gastric 
troubles, but their use is not always compatible with 
the promiscuousness of camp life. 

It would be well, however, under suitable conditions, 
to employ them more largely than has hitherto been the 
case, especially for officers, and I have sometimes 
found them beneficial. 

Audry * recommends suppositories prepared with 

* Ch. Audry : " Preliminary note on the administration of 

mercury per rectum," Annalea de dermatologie, October 9th, 1905, 

p. 703 ; " Treatment of syphilis per rectum," Annales de derma- 
tologie, March 1906, p. 231. 

7 



98 SYPHILIS AND THE ARMY 

40% grey oil. The daily dose of metallic mercury suit- 
able for the treatment of syphilis in an adult per rectum 
being 3 centigrammes, the suppositories are prepared 
in the following way : 

Grey oil, 40% gr. 0'075 

Cacao butter . . . . . 4 gr. 

Melt the cacao butter, let it cool again, and when it 
begins to lose its transparency mix rapidly with the 
grey oil and pour into the mould. 

Endermic Administration 

Mercurial inunction, for long the classical process, is 
to-day practically abandoned. This is not the place 
to discuss whether it should be re-established. 
Indeed, it appears to me to be completely useless in 
army practice. The difficulty the men would have in 
carrying it out in camp, the impossibility of their 
taking baths, the dirtiness of mercurial ointment and 
soiling of their clothes prohibit its employment in 
the army zone. In the medical centres the difficulties 
are almost the same, and inexperienced orderlies are 
often entrusted with the rubbings, which require a 
certain amount of practice to be done well, and are 
liable to cause severe stomatitis. 

Moreover, whatever one's opinion may be of the 
therapeutic value of mercurial inunction, it is unsuitable 
both for the intensive treatment at the onset of syphilis 
and the continuation of treatment afterwards, and, 
even in times of peace, its indications are limited. 

Intramuscular Administration of Mercury * 

Two ^series of mercurial preparations may serve 
for the intramuscular treatment of syphilis ; the one 

* I say intentionally intramuscular and not subcutaneous, because 
I consider that all mercurial injections, whether of soluble or in- 
soluble preparations, should be made into the muscle, and not in 
the subcutaneous tissue as some authors advise. 



TREATMENT OF SYPHILIS 99 

insoluble, the other soluble. The frequency of the 
injections, their effects, and administration differ 
essentially, according to which series is employed.* 

(a) Injections of Insoluble Preparations. Insoluble 
mercurial injections have the advantage of introducing 
into the muscular tissue a relatively large quantity of 
mercury which, under the influence of chemical re- 
actions produced by substances in solution in the blood 
and plasma, dissolve gradually and, by therapeutic 
action taking place at regular intervals, really con- 
stitute a continuous and regular treatment. The 
mercurial reserve deposited in the muscles is calculated 
in such a way that its solution and absorption are 
sufficiently advanced at the moment the next injection 
is given. 

In practice, the injections are made at intervals of 
a week, which enables the patient to regulate his 
visits to the doctor. 

As a corollary to this advantage, there is the incon- 
venience, more theoretical than real, of exposing the 
patient to an overdose of mercury, when the solution 
of the mercury is too rapid. 

If certain rules are ignored, the injections might 
cause the deposit of too large a quantity of mercury 
in the tissues ; the patient could not be relieved of 
this surplus of mercury, or only with difficulty by 
surgical intervention, if the phenomena of mercurial 
intoxication developed ; hence the possibility of grave 
accidents, even death. 

As a matter of fact, the dangers of insoluble mer- 
curial injections, of which some medical men have un- 
justly made a scare, are practically non-existent : in 
all, or nearly all, the fatal cases, reported in their 

* Some soldiers may be tempted, on account of the pain, to 
escape treatment by intramuscular or intravenous injections. A 
judgment of the War Council, dated September 7th, 1916, con- 
demned a soldier to three months' imprisonment for having refused 
to submit to an intramuscular injection prescribed by the medical 
man in attendance. 



100 SYPHILIS AND THE ARMY 

entirety, some error is revealed : the doses of mercury 
have been too high, the injections too close together, 
and, above all, these have been continued when signs 
of mercurial intoxication, especially stomatitis, have 
already appeared. These phenomena should have 
caused the suspension of the injections. 

These accidents have been observed specially with 
grey oil. Now, for twenty-five years I have made, or 
caused to be made, more than 60,000 injections of grey 
oil and have only seen two of my patients succumb. 
In one of these the injections had been continued by 
error, after the appearance of stomatitis. The other 
died after the untimely extraction of twelve or fourteen 
dental stumps at one sitting, during the course of treat- 
ment, which was followed by extensive necrosis of the 
jaw. 

A more justifiable objection may be raised to in- 
soluble intramuscular injections the pain they some- 
times cause. This is often severe after injections of 
calomel, but is generally absent after injections of grey 
oil, provided it is well prepared and a sufficiently fine 
needle is used. Nevertheless, pain may be produced 
after piercing a nervous filament, and, as the injection 
is made in the gluteal muscles, this may impede 
walking. Sometimes the pain following injections of 
grey oil may result from the development of an inflam- 
matory nodule in the subcutaneous cellular tissue or 
in the muscle ; it then appears on the third or fourth 
day and subsides in about a week. It is altogether 
exceptional for the nodules to suppurate, and, when 
suppuration appears, spontaneous opening or an 
incision results in rapid recovery. 

The sole possibility of pain, of the unfitness of the 
man pain which may be more or less real, which some 
soldiers may exaggerate and even make a pretext for 
discharge from duty suffices to show that insoluble 
injections cannot be used in the treatment of syphilis 
at the Front. 



TREATMENT OF SYPHILIS 101 

Grey oil has an activity inferior to that of cyanide 
of mercury in intravenous injections, but equal or 
superior to that of the majority of soluble intramuscular 
injections ; it is of very practical use in the continuation 
of treatment. The injections, made in doses which will 
be indicated later on, once a week in a series of six to 
eight, every three or four months, constitute sufficient 
medication, after intensive treatment at the onset. 
The doctor is sure an injection has been made, he is 
not always sure that a pill has been taken and swallowed; 
neither he nor the patient is too busy for a weekly 
injection. 

Calomel in intramuscular injections is one of the 
most active mercurial preparations ; it is specially 
indicated in refractory localisations of tertiary syphilis 
in the tongue or brain. But the injection often 
causes acute pain ; appearing on the third or fourth 
day, it reaches its maximum on the fifth or sixth, and 
is often sufficient to prevent the patient walking. It 
persists for three or four days, leaving behind it pain- 
fulness in the gluteal region. 

Injections of basic salicylate of mercury and yellow 
oxide of mercury, less used than calomel, have the same 
inconveniences. 

Finally, these three preparations, as well as grey oil, 
are not suitable for the treatment of syphilis at the 
Front. They may be employed in medical centres, 
on patients suffering from grave lesions, removed from 
active service for some time by illness or wounds. 

The grey oil mentioned in the Formulaire pharma- 
ceutique des hopitaux militaires is that of the Codex, 
containing 40% of mercury ; 100 cubic centimetres 
contain : 

Purified mercury . . . . . 40 gr. 

Sterilised anhydrous lanoline . . . 26 ,, 

Sterilised oil of vaseline .... about 60 

Prepared with the necessary care, on which I need 



102 SYPHILIS AND THE ARMY 

not insist here, it should be homogeneous in appearance, 
and, under the microscope, only reveal minute grains 
of mercury. 

The weekly injection of grey oil is made with a dose 
of seven to eight centigrammes of mercury, which 
corresponds to three and a half or four divisions of a 
Pravaz syringe of one cubic centimetre capacity. 
When making injections of grey oil, it is necessary to 
use very accurately marked syringes ; the rod of the 
piston should have an index, so as to avoid the correct 
dose being exceeded. 

Calomel oil appears in the Formulaire pharmaceutique 
des hopitaux militaires with the following composition : 

Calomel ....... 5 gr. 

Sterilised anhydrous lanoline . . . . 16 ,, 

Sterilised vaseline oil 100 com. 

I prefer the following formula, which causes less 
pain : 

Calomel washed in alcohol . . . 5 or 10 gr. 
Sterilised sweet oil of almonds . . 100 gr. 

The oil should be thoroughly shaken before being 
introduced into the syringe. 

The quantity of liquid injected must be calculated in 
such a way as to introduce 5 to 10 centigrammes of 
calomel into the muscle. 

The injections are repeated once a week, not exceed- 
ing four or six injections in a series. 

Insoluble injections must be made in the muscle, 
with the precautions which will be indicated later 
when describing the technique of intramuscular injec- 
tions (see p. 105). 

(6) Injections of Soluble Preparations. Numerous 
soluble mercurial preparations have been proposed for 
the treatment of syphilis by means of injections. A 
few only, which I shall enumerate farther on, have 



TREATMENT OF SYPHILIS 103 

been retained, owing to their activity and tolerance 
by the tissues. 

In a general way, the activity of these preparations 
does not vary very considerably from one to another, 
on condition that they are employed in comparable 
doses. This activity is inferior, on the one hand, to 
that of intravenous injections, and, on the other, to 
that of calomel injections. It is still more inferior 
to that of arsenical preparations. 

Therefore it is impossible, with any of these soluble 
preparations, to carry out the intensive cure of syphilis, 
which, at the present time, is a strict obligation at the 
period of chancre or of secondary symptoms. I myself 
have seen too many syphilitics who, after being in 
hospital for a chancre for two or three months, and 
having received from forty to ninety soluble mercurial 
injections during this time, have hardly been discharged 
before they are admitted to another hospital with an 
eruption of generalised syphilides, or a crop of mucous 
plaques on the mouth. 

Soluble intramuscular injections have the advantage 
over insoluble injections of not exposing the patient 
to the danger of mercurial accumulation. I have 
already shown that these dangers are in reality very 
small with a careful technique. 

They are not often painful, but here again distinc- 
tion must be made between the preparations : those 
which have the reputation of being painless, like 
mercuric benzoate, are painful if the needle touches a 
nerve ; they may even, if not injected deeply and with 
care, produce nodules and abscesses, which are often 
very painful. 

Compared with injections of insoluble preparations, 
those of soluble preparations have the disadvantage of 
requiring the patient to attend for treatment three to 
six times a week, whereas an injection of grey oil is 
only made once a week. 

In short, intramuscular injections of soluble prejjara,- 



104 SYPHILIS AND THE ARMY 

tions are unsuitable for the intensive treatment of 
syphilis, and in later treatment they require too 
frequent visits to the doctor. The pain they may 
cause, moreover, renders them unsuitable for men 
engaged in active service, especially those who are 
serving at the Front. 

Hence, their applications in war practice are very 
limited ; they are reduced to the treatment of syphili- 
tics who, in hospital for some cause, apart from syphilis, 
nevertheless require mercurial treatment more active 
than by pills, or those who do not tolerate these, or 
men whose veins are not prominent enough for intra- 
venous injections. 

The solutions for intramuscular injections, given in the 
Formulaire pharmaceutique des hopitaux militaires, 
are the following : 

(1) Solution of benzoate of mercury. 

Benzoate of mercury . . . . . 1 gr. 
Pure chloride of sodium . . . . 0'75 gr. 
Sterilised distilled water .... 100 com. 

This solution contains 1 centigramme of benzoate of 
mercury per cubic centimetre. 

It is injected in a dose of 1 cubic centimetre daily or 
every other day. 

(2) Aqueous solution of biniodide of mercury. 



Biniodide of mercury . 
Iodide of sodium 
Neutral phosphate of sodium 
Pure chloride of sodium 
Sterilised distilled water 



0-50 gr. 
0'50 gr. 
1 gr. 
0-35 gr. 
50 ccm. 



This solution contains one centigramme of biniodide 
of mercury per cubic centimetre, corresponding to 
0'044 gr. of metallic mercury. 

(3) Oily injection of biniodide of mercury. 

Iodide of mercury 0'20 gr. 

Guaiacol O'lO gr. 

Purified and distilled olive oil ... 46 gr. 



TREATMENT OF SYPHILIS 105 

Cyanide of mercury, which has been recommended, 
has to be discarded, owing to the pain caused by its 
injection into the tissues. 

Oxycyanide of mercury in an isotonic solution, or with 
the addition of its weight in stovaine, is not painful. 
It is injected in a dose of 1 centigramme. 

Neutral salicylate of mercury in an aqueous 2% 
solution is well tolerated. 

Technique of Intramuscular Injections. Intra- 
muscular injections must be made with needles of 
sufficient length to reach the muscular tissue, i.e. 4 to 
5 centimetres. I specially recommend that steel 
needles should be used, as they pierce better than 
platinum ones, and, for the same inside calibre, have 
a smaller external diameter than the latter. This last 
point is of importance for injection of grey oil ; it often 
happens that, when the needle is withdrawn, a certain 
quantity of the liquid injected runs back along the 
track ; the larger the passage left by the needle, the 
greater this reflux, and the more chance is there of its 
going into the cellular tissue. Now, it is the penetra- 
tion of grey oil into the superficial fascia which causes 
the formation of subcutaneous nodules after injections. 
Another reason has caused me to discard platinum 
needles : these are manufactured by rolling and solder- 
ing a platinum plate, and are often perforated after a 
certain number of sterilisations in the flame ; the result 
is that a small drop of grey oil may escape through one 
of these perforations, penetrate into the cellular tissue 
and cause the development of a nodule there, or in the 
dermis, thus producing an eschar which takes a long 
time to heal. 

Intramuscular injections of preparations dissolved in 
water can be made almost without inconvenience in 
the buttock ; care must be taken, however, to avoid 
the neighbourhood of the sciatic notch. This pre- 
caution is still more necessary with injections of in- 
soluble preparations ; the penetration of fluid into the 



106 SYPHILIS AND THE ARMY 

vessels which run through the sciatic notch might give 
rise to embolism and cause death. 

In order to avoid this dangerous zone and, if nodules 
do develop, to prevent their inconveniencing walking 
or dorsal decubitus, the injections should be made in 
an area the width of two fingers in height and of three 
fingers in width, the external border of which is 3 
centimetres behind the great trochanter and the lower 
border 2 centimetres above the lower border of the 
trochanter ; or in the upper third of the buttock. 

When an oily fluid is injected, or insoluble substances 
are held in suspension, I cannot warn too strongly 
that the injection should never be made without the 
needle having first been introduced alone, to be sure 
that no blood appears, the flow of blood indicating 
penetration of a vessel. 

The Intravenous Administration of Mercury 

Baccelli introduced intravenous injection for the 
administration of a certain number of drugs. It was 
employed by Abadie for the treatment of ocular syphilis, 
and entered into the practice of syphilologists long 
before colloidal substances were used in general medicine. 

The only mercurial salt commonly used in syphilis 
is cyanide of mercury. The number of mercurial com- 
pounds suitable for intravenous injection is singularly 
restricted by the conditions to be fulfilled. These are 
as follows : the drug must be soluble, stable, have a 
fixed and determined mercurial content, be easily 
prepared, sterilisable, and, finally, must not precipitate 
the blood albuminoids. 

Now, cyanide of mercury practically fulfils all these 
conditions. The radical cyanogen is, as it were, dis- 
simulated in the same way as arsenic in organic arsenical 
compounds and, from the point of view of toxicity, no 
relation can be established between it and cyanide of 
potassium, 




TREATMENT OF SYPHILIS 107 

Aqueous solution of biniodide, which has been re- 
commended by some authors, has not been admitted 
into current practice. 

The advantages of intravenous injections are multiple : 
complete absence of pain when the injection is made 
correctly ; rapid absorption and elimination of the 
mercury which, at the end of an hour, appears in the 
urine, presenting its maximum at the end of three to 
six hours, hence the absence of accumulative effects 
and the possibility of renewing the injections at short 
intervals ; total absorption, and absence of all cause 
of error in dosage ; finally, rapid and energetic 
therapeutic action. I shall refer to this point again 
later. 

The inconveniences and accidents are real, but may be 
nearly always avoided, given good technique. They 
consist in the possible introduction of the fluid into the 
wall of the vein and subcutaneous cellular tissue, with 
resulting venous indurations and dermo-hypodermic 
eschars ; in the action of the drug on the digestive tube, 
with dysenteriform and hsemorrhagic colitis. Seeing 
the importance of the question of the technique of 
intravenous injections in general in the treatment of 
syphilis, I have grouped together in a special chapter 
all that concerns technique, injection accidents and the 
means of preventing such accidents (see p. 148). 

An objection raised with regard to intravenous 
injections is the complicated and difficult technique : 
I repeat that with a very small amount of skill and 
attention every medical man should soon learn how 
to make an intravenous injection correctly. In 
hospital, my pupils succeed at the end of a few days in 
acquiring sufficient dexterity. For several months 
many military surgeons have come to my clinic to 
learn the operative technique of intravenous injec- 
tions, and have been able to perform these perfectly 
after two or three days at the most. 

Another objection raised to intravenous injections 



108 SYPHILIS AND THE ARMY 

is the time they require ; it is certain that, in a doctor's 
practice, an intravenous injection and its preparation 
demand an appreciable time ; but this does not sensibly 
exceed that taken by an intramuscular injection and 
its preparation. In a hospital treating a number of 
syphilitics and provided with a staff of well-trained 
dressers, the time of preparation is distributed amongst 
the total number of patients ; it is reduced in propor- 
tion to the number of injections made at the same 
sitting, and what might be termed the therapeutic 
yield becomes considerable. 

As against the inconveniences, one must put the 
therapeutic value of intravenous injections of cyanide of 
mercury. This value, I can say without hesitation, 
is enormous and superior to that of all other forms of 
mercurialisation ; it can only be compared to that of 
injections of calomel in tertiary syphilitic lesions of the 
mucous membranes. 

It is not rare to see syphilitic chancres dating from 
eight to ten days cicatrise after two or three intra- 
venous injections of cyanide of mercury ; syphilitic 
lesions of all sites, secondary or tertiary, mucous 
plaques of the pharynx, hypertrophic cutaneous 
syphilides become cicatrised or healed in a few days. 
One cannot pretend that these results are constant, and 
I have seen syphilitic lesions resist this mode of treat- 
ment ; I consider that, when a series of ten to twelve 
intravenous injections of cyanide of mercury has not 
effected the cure of the syphilitic lesion, it is not worth 
while continuing this treatment and better to have 
recourse to another. 

It is none the less true that in the generality of 
cases, especially primary and secondary lesions, intra- 
venous injections constitute a very active treatment, 
an attacking treatment for which no mercurial prepara- 
tion, and above all no mercurial preparation suited for 
the treatment of syphilis hi soldiers, can be substituted. 
I shall show later the practice I have devised for the 



TREATMENT OF SYPHILIS 109 

purpose of associating intravenous injections of mercury 
and those of novarsenobenzol. 

Intravenous injections of cyanide of mercury are 
made with a 1 % solution of this salt in sterilised dis- 
tilled water. 

In the centres where injections of cyanide of mercury 
are of current use, this solution may be kept in glass- 
stoppered bottles ; they must be replaced every two 
or three days. 

When there is only a small consumption of cyanide, 
the provision must be kept in sealed ampoules of 1 or 
2 cubic centimetres capacity. 

The injections are repeated every day, or every two 
days, according to the rapidity with which the treatment 
is to be carried out. They may be given daily without 
inconvenience for twelve to fifteen days ; but must be 
suspended if they produce either stomatitis, which is 
rare, colitis, or hsemorrhagic stools, which are more 
frequent. 

The ordinary dose of cyanide to be injected at one 
time is 1 centigramme, say 1 cubic centimetre of 
the 1 % solution. It is prudent to commence with 
an injection of 5 milligrammes only, say a half cubic 
centimetre, in debilitated or aged subjects, or in 
those in whom intestinal troubles are suspected ; but 
if the first injection is tolerated well, the normal dose 
of one centigramme may be given after the second or 
third injection. 

When it is necessary to push the treatment very 
actively, for example, in patients whose military 
duties do not permit more than a short sojourn in 
hospital, or when one has to deal with grave syphilitic 
lesions, such as iritis, meningitis, etc., two centi- 
grammes of cyanide (i.e. two cubic centimetres) may 
be injected every day, or one day out of two, in which 
case there should be an injection of one centigramme 
on the intermediate days! 

In a word, the medical man must vary the doses 



110 SYPHILIS AND THE ARMY 

according to the indications given by each patient 
from day id day. 

ARSENIC 

For some considerable time arsenic has been used 
in the treatment of syphilis, as an accessory medica- 
tion. Donovan's solution, which dates from 1839, 
contains it in association with iodide of potassium and 
mercury ; numerous medical men add arsenic, either 
to mercury or iodide of potassium, and use it for 
combating the anaemia and asthenia of syphilitics, or 
prescribe thermal baths for these patients, where the 
waters contain arsenic, especially at Bourboule. 

From the time that Armand Gautier introduced 
arsenical derivatives with an organic base into thera- 
peutics, these have been employed largely in anti- 
syphilitic therapy. Brocq obtained good results with 
io do-mercuric cacodylate ; arrhenate of mercury, 
salicylar senate of mercury have been used. Anilar- 
sinate of sodium, which was discovered by Bechamp in 
1863, reappeared in Germany in 1907, under the name 
of atoxyl, and enjoyed an ephemeral vogue, but was 
soon abandoned owing to the numerous and serious 
accidents it caused (blindness, death). 

In 1909, Balzer obtained good results with benzo-sul- 
phono-para-amidophenylarsinate of sodium, discovererd 
by Mouneyrat and sold under the name of hectine ; 
associated with mercury in a special preparation, 
under the name of hectargyre, it had a certain vogue, 
which rapidly diminished upon the appearance of 
arsenobenzol. 

Arsenobenzol 

Dichlorhydrate of dioxydiamido-arsenobenzol was dis- 
covered by Ehrlich, in 1909, when experimenting with 
arsenical compounds on the spirilloses. It is commonly 



TREATMENT OF SYPHILIS 111 

known by the name of " 606," which indicates its 
number in the series of Ehrlich's experiments. It 
has been patented under the name of Salvarsan by the 
Hoechst Chemical Manufacturing Dye-works of Meister, 
Lucius, and Br lining . The name arsenobenzol, a 
simplification of its chemical denomination, under 
which it has been manufactured and sold everywhere, 
should be the only 1 one 1 used. 

Arsenobenzol is a canary yellow powder, impalpable 
to the touch, of an astringent and acid taste, with a 
slightly sulphurous odour ; it changes under contact 
with the air, and must be kept in hermetically sealed 
phials, in nitrogen. 

In water, it gives a solution, with an acid reaction. 

It was at first used for intramuscular injections, in 
the form of an acid oily suspension, but this method 
of employment was soon abandoned owing to the 
severe pain it caused. Arsenobenzol was then adminis- 
tered solely by intravenous injection : its aqueous 
solution, being acid, has been abandoned, on account 
of the painful reactions it caused ; recourse has been 
had to neutralised solutions, or those rendered alkaline 
by the addition of solution of soda. 

The quantity of solution of soda to be added varies 
in accordance with the doses injected. 

The addition of solution of soda to the aqueous 
solution of arsenobenzol produces a precipitate, which 
dissolves on the addition of more alkaline solution. 

Arsenobenzol solution, rendered alkaline by soda, 
cannot be injected unless diluted by a certain quantity 
of physiological serum, so that the volume injected 
shall reach 150 to 200 cubic centimetres. 

Each operator prefers his special method, the pre- 
paration of the solution, and the instruments necessary 
for the injection having been subjected to numerous 
modifications. It is not possible here to give details 
of these different techniques, the more so because, as 
I shall state later on, I do not consider arsenobenzol 



112 SYPHILIS AND THE ARMY 

can be utilised in the treatment of syphilis in the 
Army. 

When first used, arsenobenzol gave rise to the 
greatest hopes. Ehrlich did not hesitate to say that 
it enables one to effect, by means of a few injections, 
the " sterilisatio magna " of syphilis. Experience 
quickly showed that, even granting that these injec- 
tions given at the onset of syphilis were indeed followed 
in a short time by cicatrisation of the chancre, if the 
secondary symptoms did not appear at their ordinary 
date, they were simply delayed and were frequently 
seen later. In an attempt to stop the secondary 
symptoms, it was necessary to increase the number of 
injections. True, when the disease was more advanced, 
active troubles certainly disappeared, most frequently 
in a marvellous way, but these also reappeared at the 
end of some weeks, and sometimes then resisted 
arsenobenzol, even in large doses frequently repeated. 

Thus the initial enthusiasm was damped ; injections 
were multiplied, and doses increased. 

Moreover, accidents happened, even deaths being 
reported. Many of these accidents were due to errors 
of technique or the use of excessive doses and could 
not be attributed to the drug. As regards the deaths, 
the majority were due to the general condition of the 
patients. Ehrlich soon announced that there were 
contra-indications to the use of arsenobenzol, and 
advised its non-employment in cardiac affections, 
aortic aneurisms, and general paralysis. 

Nevertheless, disastrous results were still observed 
sometimes ; it had to be acknowledged that, granting 
they were more frequent in old age, and in cardiac, 
albuminuric, hepatic, and cachectic patients, they were 
also observed in young, apparently healthy subjects. 
It was soon noticed that they rarely appeared with 
the first injection, but most often with the second, 
diminishing in frequency with the third and subsequent 
ones. 



TREATMENT OF SYPHILIS 113 

Further, nervous troubles such as paralysis of the 
cranial nerves sometimes appeared in patients treated 
by arsenobenzol ; their frequency aroused distrust of 
thd drug I 

I shall revert again later to the question of accidents. 

Arsenobenzol caused accidents, independent of the 
doses of the drug injected, as well as of the technique ; 
it necessitated a complicated technique, and, despite 
improvements, few medical men were persuaded to 
use it. 

The discovery by Ehrlich of a substance, of closely 
allied chemical composition, easily giving a perfect 
solution with neutral reaction, rendered the arsenical 
medication of syphilis practicable. 

Novarsenobenzol 

Dioxydiamido arsenobenzolmonomethylene sulphoxy- 
late of sodium was called " 914 " by Ehrlich, in accord- 
ance with its position in his experiments ; it was sold 
by the firm of Meister, Lucius, and Briining, under the 
name of Neosalvarsan. By way of analogy with 
arsenobenzol, it is generally designated under the name 
of Novarsenobenzol. Like arsenobenzol, it can be 
prepared and sold by all manufacturers of chemical 
products. 

It is a bright yellow * powder, of impalpable con- 
sistency ; when placed on water it floats, but melts 
with extreme rapidity, making a clear solution, of 
neutral reaction, which can be injected into the -veins 
direct. 

The perfect and rapid solubility of novarsenobenzol 
in water in every proportion, or in physiological serum, 

* When novarsenobenzol changes, its colour becomes brown. 
Before making the solution, care should always be taken to see 
that the product has retained its normal colour. It is well to know 
that the density of novarsenobenzol is not always constant, so that 
the volume in the ampulla occupied by the same dose of the drug 
may vary considerably. 

8 



114 SYPHILIS AND THE ARMY 

has caused this substance to obtain a well-merited 
renown. 

Novarsenobenzol changes rapidly when in contact 
with the air : like arsenobenzol, it must also be pre- 
served in hermetically sealed ampoules. This is the 
form in which it is put on the market and delivered 
to medical centres, by the Central Pharmacy of Military 
Hospitals and the local pharmacies, in ampoules con- 
taining doses of 0'15 gr., 0'30 gr., 0'45 gr., 0'60 gr., 
0'75 gr., 0'90 gr., the doses usually employed for 
the treatment of syphilis. The ampoules have a 
uniform capacity of 4 to 5 cubic centimetres. 

The activity of novarsenobenzol is lower than that 
of arsenobenzol ; both from the point of view of 
toxicity and of therapeutic effects, it may be regarded 
as equal to two-thirds of that of arsenobenzol. Thus, 
the doses should be half as much again as those of the 
latter drug. 

Novarsenobenzol solution should be prepared the 
moment it is to be used ; its effect changes on contact 
with the air, and this becomes more accelerated the 
higher the temperature. Further, these solutions 
should be used with cold water. 

The Vehicle for Injections of Novarsenobenzol 

Amongst the causes of accidents due to the use of 
arsenobenzol, great importance has been attributed 
to the liquids used in preparing the solutions ; the 
question of the water has been the subject of numerous 
investigations, and, in the production of toxic accidents, 
all impurities of the water, both chemical and microbial, 
have been incriminated ; salts of lead, alkaline silicates, 
bicarbonate of lime or magnesia, derived from the 
glass of the distilling apparatus, copper if this was in 
metal. Chloride of sodium was also blamed if the 
injection was made with physiological serum. It was 
not sufficient for the water to be distilled, it was 




TREATMENT OF SYPHILIS 115 



necessary that it should be distilled at least twice, 
the last time being on the day itself, or the evening 
preceding, its use ; further, it was imperative that it 
should be distilled in an apparatus made of special 



When novarsenobenzol was first used it was dissolved 
in 150 to 200 cubic centimetres of fluid, like arseno- 
benzol. 

Ravaut * made a great advance in the technique of 
treatment by novarsenobenzol when he showed that 
the question of water could be solved in a very simple 
fashion, by reducing the quantity of the vehicle ; by 
injecting less liquid, and thus injecting a smaller 
quantity of toxic substances contained in it. 

But when a liquid is injected into the veins it must 
not alter the blood corpuscles and cause haemolysis. 

Traditionally, to avoid haemolysis, it was customary 
to dissolve the novarsenobenzol in physiological serum. 
Ravaut showed that solutions of novarsenobenzol 
respect the integrity of the blood corpuscles provided 
a certain content of arsenobenzol is maintained : this 
content, in his opinion, is 0'45 gr. for 10 cubic centi- 
metres of distilled water. Therefore for the injection 
of a full dose of novarsenobenzol, 0*45 gr. or more, only 
10 cubic centimetres of distilled water need be used, 
with a proportionate volume for smaller doses, say 
3 cubic centimetres for 0'15 gr. of novarsenobenzol. 

Later, Ravaut f showed that the quantity of liquid 
injected could be still further diminished. The solu- 
bility of novarsenobenzol in water is such that two 
cubic centimetres of water will dissolve 0'90 gr. These 

* Ravaut, " New Process of Intravenous Injection of Neosal- 
varsan" (Bulletin de la Societe francaise de Dermatologie, Feb- 
ruary 7th, 1913, p. 118). Ravaut and Scheikevitch, "Study on 
the New Process of Injection of Neosalvarsan in Concentrated Solu- 
tions" (Annales de Dermatologie, April 1913, p. 208). 

| Ravaut, " New Simplification of the Technique of Concentrated 
Intravenous Injections of Arsenobenzol" (Presse medicale, October 
1915, p. 398). 



116 SYPHILIS AND THE ARMY 

concentrated solutions do not alter the blood ; they 
cause no inconvenience, except that they may be pain- 
ful if, by accident, the fluid is injected outside the 
vein (see "The Technique of Intravenous Injections," 
p. 148). It is wise, however, to make the injection 
more slowly than with larger quantities of solutions. 

The water problem is solved by the method of 
concentrated injections, and to such a point that it is 
no longer even necessary to use distilled water for these 
injections. In a hospital at the front, Ravaut has 
performed injections with water that had been simply 
boiled and filtered through absorbent wool, without 
causing any accident. 

I have myself proved on several occasions that 
injections of novarsenobenzol, dissolved in ordinary 
water, which had been sterilised by boiling for some 
minutes, do not cause accidents of any kind, and no 
greater febrile reaction than those made with freshly 
distilled water. 

Nevertheless, one must not use water too highly 
charged with calcareous salts, as they would react on 
the novarsenobenzol. When it is impossible to obtain 
any other, calcareous water may be used, if it is boiled 
a long time, in order to precipitate the calcareous salts, 
and then sterilised afresh by boiling after decanting. 

To summarise, injections of novarsenobenzol may 
be made with physiological serum, distilled water which 
has been prepared less than three months, preserved 
aseptically or recently boiled, and in case of urgency 
with ordinary water boiled and filtered through cotton- 
wool, in a volume of two cubic centimetres per injection, 
whatever the dose of novarsenobenzol. 

This method of highly concentrated injections is 
recommended on account of its simplicity, and the 
facility with which the necessary material and appro- 
priate syringes can be obtained. It is also recom- 
mended because of its innocuousness, by reducing the 
accidents due to the drug to a minimum. It is the 



TREATMENT OF SYPHILIS 117 

only method I have used in my hospital work for the 
past year ; it responds better than any other to the 
requirements of antisyphilitic therapy in the Army and 
at the medical centres. 

Balzer and Dumouthiers have recommended intra- 
muscular injections of novarsenobenzol. This method, 
which may be compared to injections of insoluble 
mercurial preparations, has the advantage of not 
introducing a high dose of arsenic into the circulation ; 
it is therefore less dangerous than the method of intra- 
venous injections. 

Injections, in doses of 0'25 gr., are made twice a 
week. 

As a rule, they are painless, but sometimes painful. 

But, as with intramuscular mercurial injections, the 
possibility of painful local reaction prohibits the 
adoption of this method for the army. Moreover, its 
therapeutic action appears to be both less intense and 
less rapid than that of intravenous injections. 

The Effects of Novarsenobenzol on Syphilitic Manifestations 

Like arsenobenzol, but in higher doses, novarseno- 
benzol has a very rapid action on the cicatrisation of 
syphilitic chancre, even in its early stages, and no 
matter what its extent. From the very first days, the 
chancre becomes of a paler colour, its borders are less 
marked, the basal induration diminishes, its appear- 
ance resembles that of simple ulceration, its surface 
contracts, and, within the space of 6 to 12 days, it 
has completely cicatricised ; the satellite glands, once 
treatment has begun, cease to increase in size, become 
less hard, and within a few days again resume their 
normal dimensions. 

The effects are no less remarkable on secondary 
lesions. The mucous plaques of the genital organs, 
anus and mouth are very rapidly influenced by the 
drug. If they are of the erosive form they heal in 



118 SYPHILIS AND THE ARMY 

4 to 6 days ; hypertrophic plaques, even the most 
voluminous, subside from the first 2 or 3 days follow- 
ing the first injection, lose their papillomatous appear- 
ance, and in 12 to 15 days, i.e. after the second injection, 
they have completely disappeared, without any local 
treatment. 

Cutaneous lesions are also influenced rapidly by 
novarsenobenzol ; as with all active treatment, mer- 
curial, as well as arsenical, they are often the seat of 
a more or less local congestion, known under the name 
of Herxheimer's Reaction, during the first hours 
following the injection. After this temporary con- 
gestion, they fade rapidly and disappear ; roseola in 

5 to 8 days, papular syphilides with large papules in 
the space of 6 to 8 days, syphilitic plaques of the skin 
a little more rapidly ; papular syphilides with small 
papules resist treatment more and do not always 
disappear after the third or even the fourth injection ; 
ulcerous syphilides heal fairly rapidly, and their cica- 
trisation may be complete in 8 to 15 days, even if 
they are extensive and deep. 

The rapid influence of arsenobenzol on cutaneous 
lesions of syphilis, especially on ulcerous syphilides, 
has led some authors to state that the principal effect 
of this drug is to hasten cicatrisation, and some have 
denied that it had any other quality. 

It is incontestable, however, that it has an action 
on the visceral manifestations of syphilis, which is as 
rapid as that which it exercises on the cutaneous 
lesions. 

Secondary syphilitic headache is nearly always 
influenced by it. It is not unusual for patients suffer- 
ing from violent headache and consequent insomnia 
for several days to regain sleep the night or following 
night, after the first injection. The same thing applies 
to the pains in the limbs, which are sometimes so 
distressing in secondary syphilis. 

More serious troubles, such as hemiplegia of the 



TREATMENT OF SYPHILIS 119 

face and limbs and medullary lesions of secondary 
syphilis, are also influenced rapidly. 

Iritis and Irido-choroiditis are very quickly modified 
by novarsenobenzol ; the preorbital pain yields in a 
few days, sometimes in a few hours, the iris regaining 
its contractility and coloration ; no more adhesions 
are produced, and in fifteen to twenty days the iris 
has resumed its normal aspect, with the exception of 
a slight sluggishness and some tendency to dilatation, 
and, of course, the cicatrised remains of adhesions 
prior to treatment. 

The general condition of the patient responds very 
rapidly to the influence of arsenical medication ; the 
febrile condition common in secondary syphilis subsides 
in two or three days, the sensation of fatigue so frequent 
in the early stages, the pallor or earthy colour of the 
face, rapidly give place to a sensation of well-being, 
normal coloration of the skin, and renewed vigour. 
Many syphilitics declare that their health is far better 
since treatment with arsenobenzol than it was before 
the onset of syphilis : they soon put on flesh to a 
noticeable extent, their appetite returns, and often 
the growth of hair is more abundant than it was before. 
The above are the effects of any active arsenical 
medication, at the maximum of intensity and rapidity, 
owing to the richness of the drug in arsenic. 

With patients who had previously been subjected 
to mercurial medication and in whom this drug had 
reacted on the buccal mucous membrane, a very rapid 
modification of the mercurial gingivitis must be added 
to these favourable effects : the ulcerations become 
clean and heal, salivation ceases and mercurial treat- 
ment can be renewed later on without bringing about 
a return of the stomatitis. 

To sum up, in the great majority of cases, excepting 
the rare instances of intolerance or resistance to the 
drug, novarsenobenzol, like arsenobenzol, rapidly causes 
the disappearance of the lesions of primary and secon- 



120 SYPHILIS AND THE ARMY 

dary syphilis, and at the same time improves the 
general condition of the patient to a degree not attained 
by mercury. 

This is undoubted, and evidence would have to be 
repudiated if it were not acknowledged. 

The question is, whether the action of arsenobenzol 
is symptomatic a rapid and energetic action on the 
lesions only, or fundamental a curative action on the 
disease itself. In a word, does novarsenobenzol 
"whitewash" the syphilitics, or does it cure syphilis ? 

I have already said that the sterilisatio magna an- 
nounced by Ehrlich has not been realised by a small 
number of injections of arsenobenzol. Can this result 
be obtained by multiplying the injections, and using 
higher doses of the drug ? 

Opinions vary. Some hold that sufficiently energetic 
treatment will cure syphilis radically and definitely. 
According to others, this result is never attained. 

One fact seems now to be established, i.e. that, in 
order to hope to sterilise syphilis by arsenobenzol or by 
novarsenobenzol, the disease must be attacked from 
the primary period, preferably from the second or 
third weeks of the chancre, and that, once the secondary 
troubles have appeared, one can no longer expect such 
& result. 

In what proportions has this sterilisation been 
realised in cases of syphilis treated from the onset ? 
This is difficult to ascertain. Some authors claim 
results which are truly marvellous. But their statistics 
are generally based on the experience of a few months, 
and their statement that syphilis has been sterilised 
rests on the fact that no symptoms have been seen 
during the period of observation, and that the Wasser- 
mann rection became and remained negative. 

This last argument is inadequate, no matter what 
has been said, to justify one in asserting that the 
syphilis has been cured. Prolonged observation during 
several years would alone authorise this conclusion. 



TREATMENT OF SYPHILIS 121 

In fact, syphilis, treated either by mercury or not at 
all, may remain for many years without any external 
signs, and yet manifest more or less serious symptoms 
at the end of 12, 15 years and more I have even seen 
a case after 54 years. 

An apparently more weighty argument has been 
supplied by the fairly numerous observations of several 
medical men, who, after treating a syphilitic chancre 
by arsenobenzol, have seen a new one develop later. 
In virtue of the axiom that an infective disease which 
recurs is one in which the first attack has been cured, 
one must conclude that the first attack of syphilis had 
been cured. 

I have already shown, with regard to the diagnosis 
of syphilitic chancre (see page 64) the probable ex- 
planation of some lesions the majority, in my opinion 
regarded as reinfection chancres in patients treated 
by arsenobenzol. 

Apart from the pseudo-chancre of reinfection, later 
syphilitic manifestations are often seen in patients 
treated by arsenobenzol. 

After a latent period of several months, lesions 
of the mucous membranes, simple or hypertrophic 
plaques, may appear, often accompanied by a circulate 
erythematous eruption, of the type of recurrent roseola 
(see p. 72) which respond again to treatment with 
arsenobenzol or mercury, sometimes to again reappear 
after d variable period. 

Other syphilitic manifestations of different kinds 
and varied locations may also appear, especially 
nervous affections, and these I shall mention again. 

What is remarkable is that the most characteristic 
symptoms of the secondary period are usually absent ; 
the typical roseola is not observed in patients treated 
with arsenobenzol. Again, delayed lesions of the 
tertiary type often occur at a period at which they 
would not have had time to appear in untreated syphilis 
or that treated by mercury. Arsenical medication 



122 SYPHILIS AND THE ARMY 

seems both to retard or inhibit the appearance of 
early lesions and hasten the appearance of the later 
manifestations of syphilis. 

Detractors of arsenical medication have taken 
advantage of the appearance of these delayed lesions, 
and have cited cases in which they appeared after 
arsenical treatment of varying intensity and duration. 

It is impossible to deny that patients treated by 
high and repeated doses of arsenobenzol, from the 
first days of the chancre, have presented indubitable 
syphilitic lesions, of a more or less serious character, 
at the end of a few monthsi 

On the other hand, trustworthy observers have cited 
cases treated from the first days of chancre with 
arsenobenzol, in which the Wassermann Reaction has 
become negative and remained so for two or three 
years, without the appearance of any syphilitic trouble. 

It is, therefore, justifiable to conclude that arseno- 
benzol may definitely cure syphilis, when it is employed 
at the initial period,* but also that definite cures 
obtained with this drug are rare, no matter at what 
period of syphilis it is instituted or what dose is given. 

With regard to the Army, this conclusion should 
lead medical men to regulate the use of arsenical 
medication in the hope of attenuating syphilis, and 
curing it if possible. It does not justify them, how- 
ever, in endeavouring to obtain a result which is 
always exceptional, by means of extremely energetic 
and prolonged medication which would prevent the 
patient from performing his military duties and 
diminish the number of efficient soldiers. 

This consideration is of importance, owing to the 
fact that it is not certain whether very high doses 
and prolonged use of arsenobenzol may not have a 
noxious effect. During the six years in which arseno- 

* See specially Brocq' s memoire (" How to administer Salvarsan," 
Annales de dermalologie, December 1912, p. 669) in which this 
question is handled with the greatest caution. 



TREATMENT OF SYPHILIS 123 

benzol has been used, we cannot pretend to be 
acquainted yet with its remote effects. When the 
nervous system frequently responds to arsenobenzol 
by a reaction which ends in grave disorders, it is 
possible that too energetic initial treatment may lead 
to more or less pronounced inflammatory conditions, 
and perhaps predispose to terminal localisations of 
the treponema in the grey matter. 

There is a risk, of which the civil surgeon should 
warn his patient, when proposing an energetic abortive 
treatment, but which the army surgeon does not 
appear to have the right of imposing upon the men 
who are confided to his care. 



In what Doses should Novarsenobenzol be injected? 

The most varied and contradictory opinions have 
been stated as to the suitable doses of the arsenical 
compound to be injected. 

Ehrlich, relying on his experimental researches, fixed 
the dose of arsenobenzol at one centigramme per 
kilogramme of body weight, and stated that this 
should never be exceeded at one injection. Assuming 
that the toxicity of novarsenobenzol is two-thirds that 
of arsenobenzol, the maximum dose for a man of aver- 
age weight of the new compound is 1 '5 centigramme per 
kilogramme. 

The great majority of authors agree that it is never 
necessary to give this dose, and no one advises it for 
the first injection. 

All agree that the first injections or at least the 
first one should be made with smaller doses than the 
succeeding ones. By a massive dose at the beginning, 
too great a number of the treponemas are destroyed 
at one stroke, and the products of bacteriolysis add 
their noxious action to those of the drug, and cause 
intense reactions. Further, as experience has proved, 
the organism has to become accustomed to the toxicity 



124 SYPHILIS AND THE ARMY 

of the arsenic, so that a dose, which at the first injection 
would cause toxic troubles, does not do so if the ground 
has already been prepared by previous injections. 
This tolerance disappears, or is at least attenuated 
by time, so that if medication by arsenobenzol or 
novarsenobenzol is resumed after a period of rest, 
the first injection must be made with a smaller dose 
than the last of the preceding series. 

Finally, it seems evident that the susceptibility of 
all patients to the toxicity of arsenobenzol is not the 
same ; the first injection enables one to feel one's 
way, and reduce the dose of this drug in subjects 
who are intolerant. 

For all these reasons, it is rational, and experience 
has shown it necessary, not to give the highest dose of 
the drug at the beginning of treatment. 

But with what dose should one commence ? Some 
authors, alarmed by the accidents observed, have 
proposed that one should start with very small doses, 
0'30 gr., or even 0'15 gr. of novarsenobenzol, and in- 
crease this progressively by 0'15 gr. at each injection. 

Others, not less expert in therapeutic matters, 
commence with 0'60 gr. of novarsenobenzol, reach 
0'75 gr. at the second injection, and often keep to this 
dose for the following ones ; they do not seem to have 
had more accidents with this method than others who 
are more cautious. 

Every one has been guided in his line of conduct by 
the facts observed and the theories he has evolved. 

As far as I myself am concerned, I was struck by 
two fatal cases in young women after small doses 
of novarsenobenzol. In one case, the first injection 
had been made with a dose of 0'20 gr., the second of 
0'15 gr. ; in the other case, the injections were respec- 
tively 0*30 gr. and 0*45 gr. As I constantly use larger 
doses without accident, I do not consider that weak 
initial doses are free from risk, and think there is no 
danger in commencing with a dose of 0'45 gr. in healthy 



TREATMENT OF SYPHILIS 125 

men. In women I generally reduce the initial dose 
to 0'30 gr., and even in men who are anaemic, or 
nervous subjects upset by the idea of the danger of 
arsenobenzol, or presenting some taint or suspected 
history (albuminuria, cardiac disturbance, etc.). 

With young and healthy subjects, like most men 
serving in the Army, the initial dose of 0'45 gr. never 
shows any centra-indication. By beginning with an 
active dose, one has the advantage of reducing the 
duration of treatment and hospitalisation, an advant- 
age which, in time of war, must always be aimed at, 
if it is not purchased too dearly. 

When the first injection has been badly borne and 
has caused a febrile reaction, arsenic intolerance must 
be suspected. It is, therefore, prudent to suspend 
the use of the drug, at any rate for a time, and, if 
imperative to again resort to it, the weakest doses 
must be given, 0'15 gr. for example, and its effects 
carefully watched. 

In the following injections, the dose should be in- 
creased to 0'60 gr. and 0'75 gr. In the majority of 
cases, contagious lesions are cicatrised after the second 
injection, given in a dose of 0*60 gr., and if necessary 
we can limit ourselves to these, on condition, as I 
shall show later on, that mercurial treatment is con- 
tinued. Many of my patients, who were given two 
injections only, before being subjected to mercurial 
treatment, did not later present any syphilitic 
symptoms. 

Nevertheless, I consider that it is more efficacious 
to begin with a dose of 0'45 gr., which is fairly high ; 
the therapeutic effect of two successive doses of 0'45 gr. 
and 0'60 gr. is at least equal to that of these two doses 
preceded by one injection of 0'15 gr. or of 0'30 gr. 

If the cure of the contagious troubles is delayed, a 
fresh injection will generally have the desired effect. 

Some authors consider that a cure is more certain 
and durable, and the chances of the return of syphilitic 



126 SYPHILIS AND THE ARMY 

symptoms more remote, if the treatment is continued. 
They also advise that the injections should be continued 
until a total dose of about 3 grammes has been reached, 
which represents an injection of 0'45 gr. and four 
injections of 0'60 gr. or one injection of 0'45 gr., one 
of 0'60 gr., one of 0'75 gr., and one of 0'90 gr. 

The utility of such doses is not evident to me ; I do 
not think that they have an absolutely prophylactic 
action against later troubles, and I consider that this 
action is obtained more certainly by the association 
of mercury! 

Periodicity of the Injections 

It is necessary to have intervals between the in- 
jections, in order to permit the organism to eliminate 
the drug, which requires four to five days, and to recover 
from the shock induced, and the humoral and visceral 
troubles that have been provoked. It is admitted 
almost unanimously that the interval between two 
injections should be a week. Even if small doses of 
the drug are injected, it is not wise to have them closer 
together. 

The After-effects of Concentrated Injections of 
Novarsenobenzol 

AsRavaut has shown, the after-effects of concentrated 
injections of novarsenobenzol are generally very slight. 

If the patient's temperature is taken carefully 
every three hours, it will frequently be found that a 
rise begins six to eight hours after the injection. 
This rise of temperature, which is quite as high after 
dilute injections, is more intense after the first injec- 
tion than after subsequent ones ; it is specially 
marked in patients suffering from secondary symp- 
toms, who have been recently subjected to mercurial 
or arsenical treatment. It is generally absent after 
subsequent injections. 



TREATMENT OF SYPHILIS 127 

The temperature may rise to 40 C., but as a rule does 
not exceed 38, and falls at the end of 6 to 8 hours. 

This early febrile reaction, due to the effect of the 
drug on the treponema, must be distinguished from 
a delayed reaction, occurring the day after, or two 
days after, the injection, which rarely exceeds 39'5, 
does not last beyond twenty-four hours, and seems 
due to toxic phenomena. 

With certain patients, the injection of novarseno- 
benzol is followed by a slight fall of temperature, 
below 37, some hours after the injection. This is 
much more frequent after the third and following in- 
jections than after the first. 

In many patients the rise of temperature is not 
accompanied by any noticeable malaise. In others 
there is headache, usually mild. This headache is 
of little importance unless it increases with subse- 
quent injections of larger doses. 

Also, nausea and vomiting are not exceptional after 
the first injection, which they follow almost immedi- 
ately, but are rare after subsequent ones. 

Some patients suffer from diarrhoea on the night 
following the injection, but this is rarely severe, al- 
though sometimes sanguinolent. 

The following are the after-effects of injections 
observed in my clinic, where the injections are always 
made in concentrated solutions. 

The injections are made between 10 a.m. and noon, 
the patient resting quietly afterwards and only taking 
a small quantity of liquid. The temperature taken 
in the axilla every 3 hours from 3 p.m. did not exceed 
37'5. i.e. a figure which may be regarded as normal 
in 80% of the cases ; in 32% it remained below 37. 
With certain patients it rose to 37'2 or 37'3 at 3 p.m., 
reaching its maximum at 6 p.m., then falling to 37 
at 9 p.m., and remaining at that figure during the 
night. With other patients it reached its maximum 
at 3 p.m. ; then fell to 37 at 9 p.m. and remained 



128 SYPHILIS AND THE ARMY 

below 37 during the night or at 6 p.m. These patients 
experienced no trouble or discomfort of any kind. 

In 18% of the cases the temperature rose above 
37'5 but did not exceed 38'5 ; this rise was generally 
of short duration, and reached its maximum at 3 p.m. 
or 6 p.m. ; the patients often had no malaise, but 
some had a slight rigor, passing headache, or some 
nausea. These febrile attacks were observed especially 
in patients who had intense secondary cutaneous 
manifestations. In one patient I saw a generalised 
scarlatiniform eruption ; in another an urticarial 
eruption a few minutes after the injection. 

In 2% of the cases there was marked rise of tem- 
perature, reaching 40 C. at the same time that the 
patients suffered from rigors, headache, and nausea, 
which were more intense than in the preceding cases, 
but only of short duration. 

Such are the reactions, which may be called normal, 
after concentrated injections of no varsenobenzol : they 
have no real importance, and the fear of them should 
not prevent recourse to the drug. The attenuating 
influence that previous mercurial treatment has on 
them should make one precede the injections of nov- 
arsenobenzol by mercurial treatment whenever pos- 
sible. I shall again revert to this point. 

Other accidents may, however, result from this 
medication. They are similar to those observed with 
other methods of treatment by arsenobenzol or nov- 
arsenobenzol. These are the accidents which have so 
frightened certain medical men, and compromised the 
arsenical treatment of syphilis. They are much more 
rare with concentrated injections than with other 
methods. All the same, they must b6 described here. 

The Serious Accidents of Arsenobenzol and Novarsenobenzol 

It is impossible to separate the accidents caused 
by novarsenobenzol from those produced by arseno- 



TREATMENT OF SYPHILIS 129 

benzol ; although much less frequent with novar- 
senobenzol, they are of the same order and may be of 
equal gravity. 

The conditions of development of these accidents 
are multiple, their pathogeny is complex, and still a 
matter of dispute. Their interpretation has given 
rise to discussions, sometimes acrimonious, into the 
details of which I cannot enter without exceeding the 
limits of this book. I shall content myself with giving 
a brief summary of the most important of them. 

It must be remarked, first of all, that certain of 
these accidents cannot be attributed to the drug, but 
to ignorance of its contra-indications. It would be 
impossible to-day to include, amongst accidents of 
the medication, the serious consequences which may 
result from its use, especially in high doses, in subjects 
suffering from grave lesions of the heart, liver, kidneys, 
and in cachectic patients. In these pathological con- 
ditions, the administration of arsenic is contra-indi- 
cated. 

Again, the method cannot be blamed for the fatal 
results of injections made with arsenobenzol, the 
composition of which has changed from contact with 
the atmosphere, or with solutions prepared in advance, 
the toxicity of which results from chemical trans- 
formations of the arsenobenzol. 

The reduction of the amount of liquid injected has 
eliminated the noxious action of the water and of its 
chemical impurities ; the substitution of novarseno- 
benzol for arsenobenzol has done away with the 
accidents produced by the insufficiency of alkalinisation 
of the solutions of the original product. 

The uncertainties of dosage which always occur on 
the first appearance of any new drug have long 
ceased ; the excessive doses preferred by some authors 
have been the cause of accidents, which no longer 
happen with those in use at the present time. 

The number of serious accidents, and especially of 
9 



130 SYPHILIS AND THE ARMY 

deaths, tends to diminish more and more, and is 
infinitely less, especially with the method of con- 
centrated injections, than during the first years in 
which arsenobenzol was employed. 

The serious accidents caused by arsenobenzol and 
novarsenobenzol specially affect the nervous system. 

The gravest of these accidents takes the form of 
acute encephalitis ; it appears sometimes after the first 
injection, more often after the second, and rarely 
after the subsequent ones ; it generally begins in the 
three first days following the injection, rarely later. 

It is characterised by severe headache, rise of 
temperature, facial congestion, delirium, followed by 
coma, repeated epileptiform attacks, and vomiting, 
generally leading to death within a few hours. 

At the post-mortem, intense hypersemia of most of 
the organs is found, and particularly punctiform 
haemorrhages in the cerebral substance ; at the same 
time lesions of acute nephritis are often present. 

The great majority of deaths following the adminis- 
tration of arsenobenzol, and more rarely novarseno- 
benzol, belong to this type. It occurs not only in 
patients suffering from visceral troubles, but also 
sometimes in healthy, young, and vigorous subjects, 
in whom there was absolutely no warning of what 
was about to happen, and this after moderate doses 
of the drug. It must be recognised, however, that 
inexplicable deaths from arsenobenzol have become the 
exception. 

Encephalitis appears more frequently after the 
second injection of arsenobenzol than after the first. 
Its development must be specially suspected in subjects 
who, after the first injection, presented an intense 
febrile reaction, facial congestion, the phenomena 
described by Milian under the name of nitritoid crises, 
and especially morbillif orm or scarlatinif orm cutaneous 
eruptions. 

It is advisable with patients who have suffered from 



TREATMENT OF SYPHILIS 131 

reactions of this kind, after the first injection, to sus- 
pend treatment, or at least only to employ moderate 
doses. 

Besides this grave form, there is a series of pheno- 
mena, of a less tragic character, described under the 
name of neuro-r elapses . These consist chiefly in paraly- 
sis of the cranial nerves. 

They appear some weeks after treatment is finished, 
and are preceded, during some days or weeks, by head- 
ache of varying intensity, diffuse or predominating on 
the side of which the paralysis is situated, and pains 
in the nape of the neck, the back, or limbs. According 
to the statistics of Benario, this paralysis affects the 
auditory nerve in 44*5% of the cases, the optic nerve 
in 30'2% ,the oculomotor nerve in 7'4% and the facial 
nerve in 7%. 

Affection of the auditory nerve is manifested by 
tinnitus, auditory hallucinations, unilateral or bilateral 
deafness, which may be accompanied or not by slight 
vertigo and rarely by vomiting. 

Lesions of the optic nerve result in optic neuritis, 
neuro-retinitis or retinitis with stasis of the pupil, often 
without very pronounced functional troubles. 

Lesions of the oculomotor and facial nerves give 
rise to paralysis of the corresponding muscles. 

The unilateral or bilateral lesions sometimes affect 
several cranial nerves simultaneously ; hence the variety 
of clinical syndromes, sometimes rendered more 
complex by the co-existence of lesions of the spinal 
nerves : paralysis of the type of Landry's disease, 
polyneuritis, intercostal neuralgia, etc. 

Lumbar puncture reveals abundant lymphocytosis 
of the cerebro-spinal fluid. 

Functional disorders generally recover after a 
variable period ; but auditory affections may persist 
indefinitely. 

These different lesions result from compression of 
the cranial nerves by basilar meningitis, often associated 



132 SYPHILIS AND THE ARMY 

with latent spinal meningitis, which is only revealed 
by lumbar puncture. 

These facts have been the subject of various inter- 
pretations. When arsenobenzol was first used, their 
frequency caused them to be attributed solely to the 
toxic action of the drug. It was soon remarked, how- 
ever, that lesions of the same kind were observed in 
syphilitics before the use of arsenobenzol, only less 
frequently ; and, on the other hand, that they were 
only observed amongst syphilitics and never appeared 
in patients treated with arsenobenzol for affections 
independent of syphilis. Attributed to the neuro- 
trophic action of arsenobenzol, they were soon put 
down to the action of the pathogenic agent of syphilis, 
hence the name of neuro-relapses, which has been given 
them. This denomination is disputable because it is 
not a question of the recurrence of previously existing 
lesions, but it has entered into current language. It 
is recognised to-day almost unanimously that, if the 
lesions are of a syphilitic nature, arsenobenzol may 
favour their development. 

As Ravaut has shown, syphilis frequently causes 
meningeal lesions, which remain latent clinically, and 
are only revealed by changes in the cerebro-spinal 
fluid (lymphocytosis, albumin), which are exacerbated 
by arsenobenzol, resulting in neuro-recurrent pheno- 
mena. The neurotropism of arsenobenzol, which has 
been invoked to explain the production of these 
accidents, does not exist, according to Ravaut, unless 
the nervous system is already invaded by the treponema. 
This explains why these lesions are observed especially 
in syphilitics treated too late with arsenobenzol, at a 
period when the treponema has already reached the 
nervous system, and do not occur in patients sub- 
mitted to arsenical injections from the very onset of 
the chancre. 

The frequency of these lesions is diminished by 
associating mercury with arsenobenzol, especially 



TREATMENT OF SYPHILIS 133 

when the arsenobenzol treatment is preceded by a 
course of mercury. 

The various organs may present more or less acute 
reactions under the influence of arsenobenzol. 

Icterus is sometimes observed ; it appears to be 
favoured by renal insufficiency. It often accompanies 
fatal encephalitis, but may also exist alone. It is 
presented under very variable aspects, from a rapidly 
curable form to a fatal one, with symptoms of grave 
icterus (acute cirrhosis, yellow atrophy of the liver). 
The pathogenesis of the icterus of arsenobenzol has 
not been definitely elucidated. 

Albuminuria appears in some cases to be provoked 
by arsenobenzol. It often happens that long-standing 
albuminuria may be exaggerated or reappear ; it may 
persist and be accompanied by ursemic troubles'; it 
ceases if arsenical treatment is at once interrupted. 

Gastro-intestinal disorders which are usually hardly 
noticeable, sometimes attain a certain intensity : 
repeated vomiting, copious diarrhoea. 

Cardiac disturbance rarely becomes pronounced, 
except in the case of a lesion of the heart, and especially 
of aortic aneurism, which forms a contra-indication 
to the use of the drug. It is usually limited to palpita- 
tions, or at most lipothymia, which forms part of the 
nitritoid crises. 

Cutaneous eruptions of an erythematous, rubeoli- 
form, or more frequently scarlatinifcrm type may 
occur after injections of arsenobenzol, usually about 
the second day ; they constitute a sign of severe 
intoxication. Some cases of generalised exfoliative 
erythrodermia have occurred from the use of arseno- 
benzol. 

To sum up, multiple, grave, even fatal lesions may 
follow injections of arsenobenzol and of novarseno- 
benzol. The pathogenesis of some of these seems to 
be established ; in the case of nervous lesions, the 
phenomena are comparable to Herxheimer's Reaction, 



134 SYPHILIS AND THE ARMY 

and are probably due to the action of the arsenical 
products on tissues already inhabited or altered by 
the spirochaete. In others, the pathogenesis remains 
obscure. 

One fact has been established, namely, that these 
disturbances are less frequent and not so grave with 
novarsenobenzol as they are with arsenobenzol, and 
that concentrated injections still further reduce their 
number and gravity. 

It is none the less true that they may exceptionally 
follow injections made quite correctly, and without 
there being anything to indicate their approach. 

Fear of these disturbances must, nevertheless, not 
prevent recourse to arsenical medication, especially 
in the case of young patients ; for indeed this some- 
times protects the patient from syphilitic manifesta- 
tions, which are often graver and in any case more 
frequent. 

Other Arsenical Preparations 

Various other products with an arsenical basis 
have been proposed for the treatment of syphilis. 

I may recall the fact that, before Ehrlich's discovery, 
benzo-sulpho-para-aminophenylarsinate of sodium, sold 
under the name of hectine, had a certain vogue ; its 
activity being much lower than that of arsenobenzol 
and novarsenobenzol, preference has been given to 
these two last substances. It has no special indica- 
tion in army medicine and cannot replace novarseno- 
benzol. The same applies to its combination with 
mercury, under the name of hectargyre. 

Mouneyrat discovered another arsenical compound, 
tetraoxydiphosphaminodiarsenobenzene, described by 
the number 1116, which is sold under the name of 
galyl. This substance is presented in the form of a 
yellow powder, without either smell or taste, insoluble 
in water and the majority of neutral solvents. When 
placed in a weak solution of carbonate of soda, it 



TREATMENT OF SYPHILIS 135 

dissolves instantly and yields a brown or yellowish 
brown fluid. According to its promoters, galyl is 
less toxic than arsenobenzol, causes no congestive 
phenomena, and is tolerated well. They say, it should 
be used for man in a total dose of 1'50 gr. spread over 
three injections with an interval of eight days between 
each. ' 

Whatever its activity or innocuousness, this product, 
like the original arsenobenzol, Ehrlich's " 606," has the 
inconvenience of not dissolving, except in an alkaline 
medium. If the dosage of carbonate of soda is not 
absolutely accurate, and this seems to offer some 
difficulty, either an imperfect solution is obtained or 
a hyperalkaline fluid, which irritates the walls of the 
veins and causes painful indurations, independently 
of any operative unskilfulness. For this reason, this 
drug does not seem to me to be suitable for army 
medicine. 

More recently, Danysz proposed a complex arsenical 
compound for the treatment of syphilis, containing 
antimony and silver, stibico-argentic sulphate of dioxy- 
diaminoarsenobenzol, described by the number 102, 
and placed on the market under the name of luargol. 

The compound is presented in the form of a yellowish- 
orange powder, which, like other products of the 
arsenobenzol series, has to be preserved in hermetically 
sealed vacuum tubes. It is insoluble in water, but 
soluble in dilute alkaline fluids, forming a very dark 
brown solution, which changes rapidly in a bright 
light, and more slowly in the dark. This solution must 
be filtered before use. Its toxicity appears to be lower 
than that of arsenobenzol, and its greater activity 
enables one to obtain therapeutic effects comparable 
to those of novarsenobenzol, with smaller doses. 
Owing to its weak toxicity, it seems to me to be very 
useful in the treatment of syphilis in exhausted, over- 
worked, and elderly patients. 

Luargol has the inconvenienrco of all substances 



136 SYPHILIS AND THE ARMY 

which only dissolve in an alkaline medium ; even in 
the hands of experts, it sometimes produces venous 
changes, distension of the vein at the moment of 
injection, with subsequent pain and induration of the 
vein ; it cannot, therefore, be recommended as a 
suitable drug for the Army at present. 

To sum up, the different agents of arsenical medica- 
tion, in experienced hands, may give satisfactory results 
in the treatment of syphilis. Those who have had 
much experience with one of these substances may 
prefer it to the others. In army practice, where it 
is necessary to treat patients actively, rapidly, and 
with the least possible risk of local and general disturb- 
ances, in my opinion, with the limited material at our 
disposal in the medical centres, one can only recom- 
mend novarsenobenzol for the routine administration 
of arsenical treatment! 

Association of Mercury and Arsenic 

When intensive arsenical medication was first com- 
menced, Ehrlich announced that syphilis was sterilised 
by arsenobenzol ; one might have believed that mer- 
cury was going to be removed from the list of anti- 
syphilitic drugs. 

To-day, even, some medical men believe that 
arsenobenzol suffices for the treatment of syphilis 
from its onset to its latest periods. Their number 
has never been very large, and I believe that it is 
diminishing more and more. 

As a matter of fact, all medical men, even those who 
have retained the greatest belief in arsenobenzol, have 
seen patients thus treated not only with novarseno- 
benzol, which may be less active, but also Ehrlich's 
salvarsan with high doses and repeated injections, 
who have, nevertheless, shown grave syphilitic mani- 
festations, often a short time after the last injections. 
Patients, having first received 3 to 5 grammes of 




TREATMENT OF SYPHILIS 137 

arsenobenzol in 6 to 8 injections, then one or two 
series of similar injections, who had had no lesion 
beyond a chancre, have come to consult me for roseola 
of the type of recurrent roseola, or for a papulo- 
tubercular syphilide. I repeat, every one has seen 
similar facts, the reproduction of which has become 
significant. 

No doubt syphilitics have shown grave syphilitic 
disturbances directly after mercurial treatment, even 
during its course, and after it had been followed 
carefully for what was regarded as an adequate period. 

But, having regard to the relative number of patients 
treated intensively with arsenobenzol, the cases are 
much more frequent in which this drug has not pre- 
vented later disturbances. 

Hence, the majority of sy philologists are of opinion 
that it is at least advantageous most say a necessity 
to complete the arsenical treatment of syphilis by 
a course of mercury. 

By means of this combined method the patient 
benefits, on the one hand, by the quickness of action 
of the arsenobenzol, the rapid healing of lesions, and, 
in cases of primary or secondary syphilis, by its 
markedly retarding action of secondary manifesta- 
tions ; on the other hand, by the greater security offered 
by mercurial treatment as a prophylactic measure 
against later manifestations. 

The association of mercury and arsenobenzol has 
another advantage, upon which Ravaut has rightly 
insisted. If administered before the arsenical treat- 
ment, mercury kills a certain number of treponemas ; 
the first injection of arsenobenzol will therefore destroy 
a smaller quantity of treponemas, and consequently 
the proportion of bacteriolytic products distributed 
in the circulation will be sensibly diminished. The 
result is that the fever, the intensity of which is directly 
due to intoxication by the bacteriolytic products of 
the treponema, is less in patients first treated by large 



138 SYPHILIS AND THE ARMY 

doses of mercury.* This result is particularly im- 
portant to obtain in the secondary period, with 
cutaneous and mucous manifestations which are rich 
in treponemas. 

For these reasons there is almost complete unanimity 
amongst syphilologists as to the necessity of combining 
mercurial and arsenobenzol treatment. 

But how are these two drugs to be combined ? 
Must they be prescribed simultaneously, alternatively 
or successively ? Here, as for the dosage of the drugs, 
all kinds of opinions are expressed ; each syphilologist 
has his own method, derived from his theoretical 
conceptions of the effects of the drugs and from the 
good or bad results he 1 has witnessed. 

Some authors are afraid of using mercury at the 
same time as giving arsenical treatment, and dreading 
accidents, especially with secondary syphilitics, do 
not begin arsenobenzol until after a prolonged mercurial 
treatment, stopping the mercury directly they com- 
mence using arsenobenzol. 

The majority of syphilologists consider that these 
fears are exaggerated, and that the two drugs may 
be alternated and combined without danger. 

For my own part, I have interposed injections of 
cyanide of mercury between injections of arsenobenzol 
in hundreds of cases, and have not seen any bad effects. 
I have, therefore, no scruple in preferring this method 
of treatment. 

In military practice it has the advantage over the 
successive or alternative use of the two drugs of reducing 
the duration of treatment, the intervals between the 
injections of arsenobenzol being made use of for the 
mercurial treatment, or at least for a considerable part 
of this treatment. During the primary and secondary 
periods, when contagious lesions compel the patient 
to be sent to hospital, it is then possible, without loss 
of time, to combine the arsenical treatment simul- 

* Ravaut and Scheikevitch, loc. cit. 



TREATMENT OF SYPHILIS 139 

taneously with the most active mercurial treatment. 
In this way, the whole weight of the attack is at once 
brought to bear upon the syphilitic infection from its 
onset. 



SCHEME FOR THE TREATMENT OF SYPHILIS IN 
THE ARMY AT THE DIFFERENT PERIODS OF 
INFECTION 

After describing the different methods of treatment 
of syphilis, their advantages, disadvantages, and 
dangers, it is necessary to consider the course to be 
followed in the treatment of syphilis in the Army. 

Here, again, it is only a question of formulating 
routine treatment of syphilis, which the medical man 
must modify, according to the particular conditions of 
the patients and of their disease. With regard to 
military patients collectively, relatively few differences 
are found in general conditions of age, health, physical 
resistance, etc. Syphilitic manifestations being gener- 
ally observed in them at an early stage and under fairly 
similar forms, this routine treatment will have more 
chance of responding to the indications of the great 
majority of cases than it would in the case of any 
other group of patients. 

I again repeat, that the treatment must be instituted 
in such a way that it will reduce to a minimum the 
ineffectiveness of the soldier. In order to do this, 
every soldier suffering from contagious syphilitic lesions 
sent to hospital on account of contagion and neces- 
sarily isolated should, while in hospital, be subjected 
to energetic treatment capable at the same time of 
causing rapid cicatrisation of the contagious lesions 
and of combating the general infection, and preventing, 
or at any rate attenuating, subsequent manifestations : 
treatment by attack and barrage against syphilis. 

Further, when the syphilitic patient has left hospital, 
he should continue treatment when with his unit, in 



140 SYPHILIS AND THE AEMY 

order to prevent relapses of the disease at a more or 
less distant date : continued treatment, prevention of 
later disturbances. 

I shall only describe the treatment of syphilis at the 
chancral period and at the secondary period ; tertiary 
disturbances and the sequelse of syphilis play only a 
small part in war syphilology. 

Period of the Chancre. Once the diagnosis of 
chancre has been undoubtedly established, the syphilitic 
should be subjected to injections of novarsenobenzol 
with as little delay as possible, and sent to hospital for 
that, as well as to put him out of the way of doing 
any harm. 

It is useful, but not absolutely indispensable, to 
precede the arsenical treatment by two or three intra- 
venous injections of mercury : I say useful, because 
I have often seen the chancre partly cicatrise under the 
influence of these injections alone, and also because a 
febrile reaction is sometimes produced after the in- 
jection of arsenobenzol, and this reaction is attenuated 
by the initial injections of mercury. 

After these injections, one of novarsenobenzol in 
a dose of 45 centigrammes is given ; eight days later, 
an injection of 60 centigrammes of novarsenobenzol. 
// imperative, arsenical treatment can be left at that. 

Nevertheless, when the chancre has not completely 
cicatrised 4 or 5 days after the second injection of 
arsenobenzol, or if the initial dimensions of the chancre 
were considerable, or accompanied by pronounced 
adenopathy, or had not been treated until after 15 
to 20 days, it is necessary to make a third injection 
8 days after the second, of 0'60 gr. of novarseno- 
benzol. In any case, if military duties do not prevent 
it, it is advisable to make this third injection. 

In the intervals between the novarsenobenzol in- 
jections, an intravenous injection of cyanide of mercury 
(1 centigramme) is given daily or every other day ; 
12 to 15 injections in all. 




TREATMENT OF SYPHILIS 141 

As it is preferable not to make the cyanide injection 
on the day following the injection of arsenobenzol, 
treatment lasts altogether 18 to 24 days. 

On condition that it is followed by regular treatment 
)y mercurial pills, in the way that will be described 
later on, this is sufficient, in the great majority of cases, 
to protect the man from secondary disturbances : I 
had practised this method some time before the war 
with a certain number of syphilitics, and have been 
able to observe the results. 

In any case, if syphilitic manifestations appear later, 
they are hardly likely to be of any considerable in- 
tensity. 

As regards tertiary affections, I cannot affirm that 
they need no longer be feared, but is there any other 
method of treatment by arsenobenzol in larger and 
oftener repeated doses that is a certain protection ? 

I must mention that, before subjecting the patient 
to injections of cyanide of mercury, his teeth must be 
examined, and attended to, if necessary. 

At the same time as this internal treatment, it is 
almost unnecessary to prescribe local treatment of 
the chancre : washing in boiled water, dressings of 
wool dipped in boiling water, or, if desired, applica- 
tions of powder of sub-nitrate of bismuth are sufficient 
to guarantee its cleanliness and prevent infection. 
Calomel powder or calomel ointment should not be 
used, as they cause irritation. Touching or painting 
with nitrate of silver should also be avoided; it is 
useless and does not visibly hasten the cure of chancres 
treated by arsenobenzol, and, in a general way, the 
use of antiseptics should be dispensed with. 

In chancres of the urethra local treatment also consists 
in washing with boiled water. I do not advise that 
any dressings should be introduced into the canal ; 
the patient should drink large quantities of fluid to 
dilute the urine and render it less irritating. 

Chancres of the lips should be dressed with boiled 



142 SYPHILIS AND THE ARMY 

water, or covered with a piece of thin and clean paper 
(cigarette paper, for instance) ; the lips should be 
washed with boiled water after each meal. 

In chancres of the tonsils the throat should be irrigated 
with physiological serum ; emollient, carbolic, or iodine 
gargles may be used. 

The Secondary Period. Not only in cases with 
active secondary symptoms, but also in those where 
the chancre is present, but has been untreated, general 
treatment is almost identical with that of the period 
of the chancre. 

Here, for the reason already indicated attenuation 
of the febrile reaction induced by arsenobenzol it is 
highly important to precede the novarsenobenzol in- 
jections by two, three (even four if cutaneous eruptions 
and mucous plaques are abundant) intravenous in- 
jections of cyanide of mercury. Then at weekly inter- 
vals, two or more, often three injections of novarsenobenzol 
are made in the doses already recommended (0*45, 
0'60, and 0' 60), with interpolated injections of cyanide 
of mercury, so that 15 to 20 centigrammes of cyanide 
are given during the period of treatment, which lasts 
from 18 to 25 days. 

Once this treatment is over, the patient must con- 
tinue treatment in his unit with pills of protoiodide of 
mercury. 

While under treatment in hospital, secondary 
ulcerous manifestations are attended to by local treat- 
ment : washing of the mucous plaques in the genital 
region with Labarraque's solution (solution of hypo- 
chlorite of sodium) in the proportion of two to three 
tablespoons per litre of water ; cauterisation of the 
hypertrophic plaques every two days with acid nitrate 
of mercury,* or, failing that, touching with a nitrate of 

* Acid nitrate of mercury is, without doubt, the most active and 
efficacious caustic for ulcerous lesions of secondary syphilis, especi- 
ally for hypertrophic plaques. It must be handled with care, 
otherwise large and deep eschars may be caused. The following 
technique will guard against any accident : dip a piece of cotton- 



TREATMENT OF SYPHILIS 143 

silver pencil ; touching the buccal mucous plaques 
with nitrate of silver or with a 50% solution of methy- 
lene blue, slight touches of acid nitrate of mercury on 
the hypertrophic plaques of the lips, tongue, etc. 

In severe ulcerous lesions of the skin (malignant 
syphilides), which are very rare, however, in military 
practice, arsenical treatment must be pushed still 
further both as regards dosage and duration, and must 
be continued after the ulcerations are all healed. One 
should make 5 to 6 injections of arsenobenzol in doses 
of 0'45, 0'60, 0'60, 0'75, 0'90. At the same time, syrup 
of iodide of iron should be prescribed, together with a 
nourishing diet and fresh air. 

Certain forms of cutaneous lesions of the secondary 
period often resist arsenical medication, even if in- 
tensive ; papulous syphilides with small papules (folli- 
cular, miliary, lichenoid, and acneiform syphilides). 
It is necessary in these forms to repeat the injections 
of novarsenobenzol and combine them with intravenous 
injections of cyanide of mercury. It is sometimes an 
advantage to make one or two injections of calomel, 
and, when the resources of the medical centre permit 
this, to let the patient have some sulphur baths. 
But, as these lesions are of slow evolution, neither 
ulcerated nor contagious, the man is not prevented 
from performing his military duties, and I do not 
think it advisable to prolong his stay in hospital. If, 
at his depot, he can obtain the necessary attention, is 
doing sedentary work, or is engaged in munition works, 
from which he can attend, once a week, for an injection 
of novarsenobenzol, he can be discharged from hospital 
at the end of 15 to 20 days. 

wool rolled tightly around a wooden stick into the solution of acid 
nitrate, press the stick against the side of the bottle to express any 
superfluous fluid, gently touch the affected surface with the stick, 
and, as soon as it becomes blenched, pass a thick plug of wadding full 
of pure water over the sxirface. Contact with the water will at once 
stop the pain caused by the acid nitrate, so that cauterisation is 
much less painful with it than it is with nitrate of silver. 



144 SYPHILIS AND THE ARMY 

In the case of a syphilitic with secondary lesions, 
who has already been treated with arsenobenzol, 
there need be no hesitation in continuing the same 
drug under the form indicated above, and even in 
pushing the doses still further, providing that this 
treatment has not caused symptoms of intolerance. 

Some visceral manifestations demand special medica- 
tion, even contra-indicating the above treatment. 

Syphilitic headache at the beginning of the disease, 
with nocturnal predominance, does not often appear 
to be very severe amongst soldiers, apart from those 
who exaggerate it in the hope of escaping either from 
treatment or from their military duties. 

Treatment, according to the foregoing rules, generally 
causes it to disappear rapidly ; very frequently it 
yields after the first injection of arsenobenzol. Should 
it persist and prevent sleep, iodide of potassium may 
be given (1 to 2 grammes daily) or a mild hypnotic 
(opium). 

Should the headache be really intense and persistent, 
it may be well to make a lumbar puncture, the value 
of which would be twofold. In the first place, it 
often relieves the headache ; secondly, examination 
of the cerebro-spinal fluid enables one to find out 
the condition of the nervous centres ; if there is 
abundant lymphocytosis present, more prolonged 
treatment should be instituted, especially with arseno- 
benzol. 

Facial paralysis, appearing in the secondary period, 
with or without previous arsenical treatment, in itself 
reveals affection of the nervous system, and requires 
energetic treatment. I consider it is wiser, when it 
appears during the course of arsenical treatment, to 
keep to mercury, in the form of intravenous injections 
of the cyanide, or intramuscular injections of calomel. 
Treatment should be prolonged till the disappearance 
of the headache which often accompanies it, and 
until the paralytic symptoms have become attenuated. 




TREATMENT OF SYPHILIS 145 



Later, the patient should be kept under prolonged 
medical supervision and treatment. 

Early syphilitic hemiplegia also demands energetic 
treatment, similar to that I have just described for 
facial paralysis. Although it may be completely 
cured, without sequelae, it may lead to temporary or 
permanent disablement. 

The same applies to early meningitis. 

Iritis is much more frequent than paralysis, and 
also necessitates active treatment, both arsenical and 
mercurial. There should be no hesitation in giving 
4, 5, or even 6 injections of novarsenobenzol, until 
a total dose of 2'50 gr. to 3'25 gr. has been reached, 
and at the same time large doses of mercury should be 
administered and continued during the arsenical cure. 
Local treatment should also be instituted, and consists 
in the use of atropine, alternating or not with that 
of eserine. In a case where the patient cannot be 
rapidly subjected to examination by an ophthalmic 
surgeon, in order to prevent the formation of iritic 
adhesions, 4 to 5 drops of the following eye-lotion 
should be used daily by instillation : 

Neutral sulphate of atropine . . . . 0*10 gr. 
Distilled water 10 gr. 

Icterus of the secondary period of syphilis should 
be treated with mercury : intravenous injections of 
cyanide are nearly always tolerated well, but all the 
same their effects must be watched carefully, on 
account of intestinal haemorrhage. In default of these 
injections, recourse may be had to intramuscular in- 
jections of soluble salts, and the internal use of calomel 
in small doses. Opinions differ as to treatment with 
arsenical compounds. Owing to the eclective toxicity 
of arsenic for the liver, I consider that it is better not 
to have recourse to it during the presence of icterus, 
nor till the liver has regained its normal volume. 
Also the diet must be attended to very carefully. 

10 



146 SYPHILIS AND THE ARMY 

Syphilitic nephritis, manifested by hsematuria and 
albuminuria, which is often considerable, requires 
great care in the administration of active anti-syphilitic 
drugs. 

If it is evident that the albuminuria is due to syphilis, 
and is not of long standing and due to pathological 
conditions prior to syphilitic infection, anti-syphilitic 
drugs are indicated ; but, as these medicaments are 
more or less toxic for the kidney, and may add their 
action to that of the syphilitic virus to form a chronic 
and incurable lesion, rapid but not too intensive 
action is required. 

Intravenous injections are followed by rapid elimina- 
tion of mercury by the kidneys ; it is dangerous, there- 
fore, to give too high doses, especially at the beginning 
of treatment. In such cases, it is my custom to give 
the injections every day in small doses, beginning with 
0'0025 gr. increased gradually to 0'005 gr. and 0'0075, 
and, if the albuminuria does not increase, up to a 
centigramme at the end of eight to ten days. The 
albuminuria has then generally decreased slightly 
and the use of novarsenobenzol may be commenced ; 
but only in small doses, 0'15 gr. or 0'30 gr. at the maxi- 
mum. While carefully watching the urine, the doses 
of novarsenobenzol are raised to 0*30 gr., 0'45 gr., 
0'60 gr., the last being repeated until a total of 2 '50 
gr. to 3 gr. has been reached. 

At the same time, the patient is kept in bed until 
the albuminuria has disappeared, and put on milk 
diet. 

Lesions of the muscles and bones rarely attain any 
very considerable degree in secondary syphilis, and 
only exceptionally necessitate any special treatment. 
Nevertheless, osteitis causes osteocopic pains which 
may prevent sleep. Mercurial, and especially arsenical, 
treatment acts very effectively on these pains. 
Sometimes, however, it is preferable to administer 
iodide of potassium ( 1 to 3 grammes daily) at the same 



TREATMENT OF SYPHILIS 147 

time as mercury. Local applications, especially mer- 
curial plasters, combine the resolvent action resulting 
from their composition and the slight absorption of 
mercury with an analgesic action of occlusion. Some- 
times it may be necessary to have recourse to hyp- 
notics : opiates, bromide, and even chloralj at least 
during the early days of treatment, and until this has 
acted on the lesions. 

Continued Treatment. The preceding treatment is 
destined to combat active syphilitic manifestations, 
to hasten the disappearance of contagious lesions, and 
check syphilitic infection so as to attenuate later 
manifestations. It is insufficient to prevent the return 
of syphilis, or its hereditary influence. 

It is necessary, therefore, that it should be followed 
by complementary treatment, and prolonged during 
several years. 

On leaving hospital, the syphilitic must be informed 
that it is imperative for him to continue treatment 
during an adequate period. To be realised practic- 
ally, this continued treatment must be simple, and not 
interfere with the performance of his duties. 

In the Army several conditions have to be considered. 

At the Front there is only one method of treatment 
which is suitable, the use of pills, tabloids, or cachets 
of protoiodide of mercury, in the dose of 10 centi- 
grammes of protoiodide daily, in 4 pills. The periods 
of treatment, as a general rule, will be regulated in 
the way to be described later. 

Should any contagious disturbance appear, the 
patient will be again sent to a venereal centre. 

Should a non-contagious manifestation appear, 
which does not prevent military service, the patient 
should take a larger dose of protoiodide (five to six pills 
daily) and during a longer period, while on duty. 

Sometimes, however, when the regiment is resting 
and in the proximity of a venereal centre, or is provided 
with a competent medical man, the patient may be 



148 SYPHILIS AND THE ARMY 

given one or two injections of arsenobenzol, or some 
soluble mercurial injections. 

In the depots and sedentary services preparations of 
protoiodide are also the most suitable for continued 
treatment ; but it is more feasible to make use of 
injection. Whenever indicated, injections of arseno- 
benzol may be made ; these only necessitate a day, or 
half a day's, absence from duty. If the doctor is 
accustomed to making intravenous injections, it will 
be easy to arrange it. As to intramuscular injections, 
soluble or insoluble, these should be reserved for men 
whose duty will not be interfered with by a slight and 
temporary pain on walking. 

For munition workers, whose mode of life differs 
but little from that of workmen in times of peace, 
treatment is easier to carry out. 

Whenever possible, it is advantageous to make 
two or three injections of novarsenobenzol in doses of 
60 centigrammes, at intervals of eight days, about two 
months after the initial treatment in hospital. Each 
of these injections only necessitates rest for a day or 
half a day, and could be made either at the end of 
the day or at the time of the half- weekly rest. 

Mercurial treatment can be carried out by means 
of pills, as with the soldiers at the front ; but, in any 
case, it is preferable to give injections, either intra- 
venous of cyanide, or intramuscular of soluble prepai 
tions, when the medical service allows patients 
submit, without loss of time, to an injection evei 
second day, or to injections of grey oil when it is 
possible to give them once a week. 

Continued mercurial treatment, no matter whal 
preparations are used for it, should be carried out, 
far as possible, on the following lines, from the poii 
of view of periodicity and duration : First, 20 da] 
per month during the 3 months following hospil 
treatment. 

For the next 9 months, 12 to 15 days per month, 




TREATMENT OF SYPHILIS 149 

and during the following year 12 to 15 days every two 
months/ 

Later on, mercurial treatment should be repeated 
during 2 or 3 years, twice a year for 40 to 50 days. 

It must be again emphasised that, during the course 
of this treatment, the patient must take care of his 
teeth, and brush them every day ; that treatment 
must be suspended if troubles attributable to the 
mercury occur salivation, stomatitis, diarrhoea to 
be again resumed later with precautions ; that, if 
syphilitic symptoms appear, mercurial treatment must 
be reinforced or completed by injections of arsenobenzol 
according to the nature and gravity of the disturb- 
ances ; in a word, it must be adapted to the indications 
presented. 

It may be remarked that, in the regulation of this 
treatment, I give no place to the indications furnished 
by the Wassermann Reaction. Besides being difficult 
to carry out regularly with all the patients during 
the course of their disease, I consider, with many 
authors, that this reaction is of no value from the 
point of view of indication and regulation of treatment. 
It is an excellent diagnostic method within the limits 
where its accuracy can be relied on ; but, whatever 
one may say, it does not furnish a single precise fact 
as to the possibility of the return of syphilitic disturb- 
ances. It may be negative in patients who, a few 
days previously, presented severe symptoms ; again, 
it may be positive at a given moment, and then become 
negative without the patient having received any treat- 
ment. 

Having regard, on the one hand, to this uncertainty, 
and, on the other hand, to the well-known preventive 
action of mercury employed in the form of successive 
treatments during the first years of infection, patients 
should be given the benefit of repeated intermittent 
mercurial treatment without paying any attention to 
the results of the serum-reaction. 



CHAPTER VI 

TECHNIQUE OF INTRAVENOUS INJECTIONS 

As we have seen in the preceding chapter, intravenous 
injections play an important part in the modern treat- 
ment of syphilis. Although they do not constitute a 
method reserved exclusively for syphilis, and are 
to-day largely used in therapeutics, it seems neces- 
sary that I should here give details of the technique. 
The following description will, I believe, enable any 
medical man, who will follow it regularly, to perform 
the injections without any great difficulty. 

Nothing is so good, however, for perfecting the 
technique of injections as frequenting a hospital 
where they are performed constantly. 

Instruments 

The apparatus required for intravenous injection is 
very simple. All the essentials are found in every 
medical centre, and, being constantly used for the 
most varied diseases, they are always kept in stock. 

It includes : 

(1) An all-glass syringe, with a capacity of 1 or 2 
cubic centimetres, for injection of cyanide of mercury, 
and 2 cubic centimetres for concentrated injections 
of novarsenobenzol. In case of urgency, one might 
use a syringe of 1 cubic centimetre for the latter, when 
30 centigrammes of arsenobenzol are injected, and fill 
it twice for higher doses. Syringes holding 5, 10, and 
20 cubic centimetres may also be used for injecting 

150 



INTRAVENOUS INJECTIONS 



151 



2 cubic centimetres of the solution, but they necessitate 
the use of an intermediary nozzle, which may get 
lost, and, owing to the size of the piston, this requires 
a greater effort of pressure ; it is therefore, preferable 
to use a syringe with a small capacity. 

(2) The needle. Any needle that pierces well and is 
not too large is good, on condition that the operator 
knows how to use it. 

The bevel of the needle should be as slight as possi- 
ble, so as to avoid an accident, to which I shall refer 




JT IG> i. Apparatus required for the Intravenous Injection of 
Novarsenobenzol. 

later on ; but it must not be too flat-nosed, because 
needles of this kind pierce badly. 

I much prefer needles of steel to those of either 
platinum or nickel, as they pierce better ; if they are 
well taken care of, i.e. are kept greased, they do not 
become oxidised and last for a long time ; further, 
they can be easily sharpened, and are not expensive. 
There is no advantage in a platinum needle, especially 
as for intravenous injections it has always to be 
sterilised in an autoclave or in boiling water ; if 
sterilised in a flame, there is always danger of the 



152 SYPHILIS AND THE ARMY 

formation of carbon concretions in the bore of the 
needle. 

Some medical men have suggested various devices, 
such as the use of a rubber attachment to the 
syringe. Clement Simon * has devised a bent at- 
tachment to the syringe, in order to facilitate the 
introduction of the needle into the vein, and allow of 
its being directed almost parallel to the skin. When 
it is only necessary to inject a small quantity of fluid 
(1 or 2 cubic centigrammes), these arrangements have 
the inconvenience of making the amount of drug 
injected uncertain. They have no practical advantage ; 
they are easy to lose, and difficult to replace. 

(3) A rubber tube for a tourniquet. 

(4) If the medical man works alone, or with a some- 
what inexperienced assistant, he must have a pair of 
pressure forceps to fix the tourniquet. 

(5) Absorbent wool. 

(6) An antiseptic fluid for disinfecting the skin. I 
advise the use of alcohol or ether for asepsis before 
making the injection, because they are colourless, 
and do not cover up the vein, and tincture of iodine for 
aseptic purposes after the injection. 

(7) The product to be injected. 

Also, if novarsenobenzol is to be injected : 

(8) Distilled or boiled water for making the solu- 
tion f ; and 

(9) A small receptacle (porcelain or glass) for making 
the solution, although the ampoule containing the 
drug may be sufficient. 

* Clement Simon, " Technique of Intravenous Injections " 
(Journal de Medecine et de Ckirurgie pratiques, June 10th, 1918). 

f As novarsenobenzol is completely soluble in water, it is not 
necessary to filter the solution, and the expensive and fragile appara- 
tus provided for filtration is useless if care is taken not to aspirate 
the very last drops of the solution into the syringe. 

When boiled water is used, one must be certain of its filtration 
without risking contamination. Kavaut has proposed a very 
simple device for this purpose. This consists in applying the 
extremity of the syringe against the wall of the receptacle in which 



INTRAVENOUS INJECTIONS 153 

The syringe, needle, and receptacle intended for 
preparing the novarsenobenzol solution must of course 
be sterilised, either in a steriliser or by prolonged 
boiling in pure water. In places where the water is 
very chalky, in order to avoid precipitation of carbonate 
of lime in the needle, syringe, or receptacle, sterilisation 
must be effected either by distilled water, or water 
which has already been boiled, and decanted. 

Mode of Operation 

The liquid to be injected having been prepared and 
aspirated into the syringe ; this, armed with the needle, 
is placed on a table close to the operator ; it rests on a 
sterilised compress, or simply on the edge of the table 
in such a way as to avoid contact with any non- 
sterilised object. The table should by preference be 
to the right of the operator. 

He places the patient opposite to him, seated on a 
chair, or sits down beside the bed in the exceptional 
cases in which the patient cannot get up. The 
patient's arm, bare to the middle of the biceps, rests 
either on the knee of the operator, on the edge of the 
table, or, more preferably, is held by the operator's left 
hand. The rubber tourniquet is applied at the 
junction of the middle and lower third of the patient's 
arm, stretching it before encircling the arm. If the 
operator is alone, he clips the band by means of 
pressure forceps, taking care not to catch up the skin. 
If he has an assistant, the latter holds the tourniquet 

the water has been boiled, interposing a tampon of wool, which has 
also been boiled, and aspirating slowly ; the wadding acts as a 
filter, which the fluid is compelled to pass through in order to pene- 
trate into the syringe. 

A glass tube, open at the end, can also be immersed in the recep- 
tacle while the water is boiling ; for example, the body of a large-sized 
syringe, at the bottom of which a tampon of wool has been carefully 
placed : the water passes through the wool filter before flowing 
perfectly clear into the upper part of the tube, or it can be aspirated 
with the needle. 



154 SYPHILIS AND THE ARMY 

tight until the needle has been inserted into the 
vein. 

At the same time, if the veins are not very prominent, 
the patient is told to close the fist or flex and extend 
the fingers, so as to make the veins swell. The operator, 
or his assistant, rubs alcohol or ether over the bend of 
the elbow. 

The next step is to select the vein into which the 
injection is to be made ; all veins at the bend of the 
elbow, of the lower part of the arm, and upper part 
of the forearm, may be utilised. With the majority 




FIG. 2. First stage of the injection. Position of fingers of the 
right hand holding the syringe. Position of left thumb holding the 
vein. The syringe is directed in the axis of the vein and almost 
parallel to the surface of the limbs. 

of vigorous men, all veins are equally apparent and 
may be used with equal propriety ; with patients 
who have already had injections, there may be venous 
indurations, which limit the extent of utilisable vessels. 
The operator chooses preferably not from amongst the 
most visible and most distended veins, but from 
those which are most swollen and most perceptible to 
the touch. In patients whose veins are but slightly 
apparent, or in whom the development of subcutaneous 
adipose tissue is similar to that of a woman, the veins 
can be felt by palpation. 

The operator then takes the syringe armed with the 
needle in his right hand, holding it between the thumb 



INTRAVENOUS INJECTIONS 155 

and fingers, the little finger being left free to act as a 
support on the patient's arm. He traces the vein with 
the index finger of the left hand ; then, having clearly 
determined its position and direction, grasps the 
patient's arm with the left hand in the following 
manner : the palm and four last fingers are applied 
to the posterior surface, while the thumb, placed on 
the anterior surface, draws down the skin along the 
selected vein, so as to fix it and prevent its slipping 
from under the needle (see Fig. 2, page 154). 

The needle is held with its bevel turned up at an 




FIG. 3. The needle has been inserted into the vein, while being 
held parallel to the skin. Blood has flowed into the body of the 
syringe. New position of the fingers of right hand : the thumb 
holds the extremity of the syringe before injecting the solution. The 
left thumb has not been moved. 

acute angle almost parallel to the surface of the limb. 
The operator introduces it in the direction of the vein, 
puncturing the skin, then pressing forward almost 
immediately to penetrate the vein ; in this second 
movement it is necessary to further reduce the angle 
of the needle with the skin and direct the needle almost 
parallel with it (see Fig. 3). 

The penetration of the needle into the vein is signalled 
at the same time by a feeling of void at its extremity, 
and by the penetration of blood into the body of the 
syringe. Sometimes, however, blood does not at 
once flow into the syringe, although one is convinced 



156 SYPHILIS AND THE ARMY 

that the syringe is in the vein ; it is only necessary 
to make slight traction on the piston with the left hand 
to see blood flow into the syringe. 

If the needle has not penetrated the vein at the first 
attempt, it should be withdrawn gently and a fresh 
attempt made to introduce it. In the case of failure, 
make a fresh puncture of the skin at a different place, 
where the position of the vein appears more favourable. 
Care must be taken, however, in the event of the 
puncture of the skin having drawn blood, to make 
the fresh attempt on the other arm. 

It sometimes happens that the needle is blocked by 
a small clot of blood, which prevents the blood from 
flowing into the syringe ; therefore, before attempting 
to make a fresh injection, it is well to convince oneself 
of the permeability of the needle, by pressing the 
piston. 

When the operator is certain that the needle has 
penetrated the vein, the rubber tourniquet is loosened. 
He now has only to push the contents of the syringe 
into the vein ; for that he exercises continuous pressure 
on the piston, either by means of the right thumb, the 
syringe being held in position between the index and 
second and third fingers, the little finger still serving 
as a support (see Fig. 4, page 157), or by means of the 
left hand. 

At this stage it is necessary to be certain that the 
fluid is flowing into the vein, and has not been intro- 
duced either into its wall or into the perivenous 
cellular tissue. The penetration of fluid into the 
tissues causes immediate pain, both with cyanide of 
mercury and novarsenobenzol ; directly the patient 
experiences any pain other than the very slight one 
of piercing the skin which moreover is caused at the 
beginning and not during the course of the injection 
itself the operation must be stopped at once, an 
attempt made to place the needle more correctly, or, 
better still, recommence the injection at another place. 



INTRAVENOUS INJECTIONS 157 

Another indication of this escape of fluid is the pro- 
duction of oedema at the seat of puncture. The operator 
must keep his eye on the operative zone during the 
whole course of the injection : at the slightest swelling 
of this region he must suspend all pressure of the piston. 

Any abnormal resistance of the piston to the thumb 
must give rise to fear that the fluid has passed into 
the venous wall. When this is felt the piston must be 
gently withdrawn ; if the needle is in a good position, 
blood flows into the syringe ; if it does not, the needle 
must be immediately withdrawn. 




FIG. 4. The tourniquet has been removed. The right thumb 
pushes the injection into the vein. The left hand supports the 
forearm. 

If a little air has got into the syringe, it is best to 
stop the injection before the piston has got to the 
end of its course, although the introduction of air 
into the veins is not so dangerous as was formerly 
supposed. 

Once the injection has been made, it is well to draw 
back the piston and withdraw a few drops of blood, 
to relieve the extremity of the needle from the caustic 
fluid which, by drying on the venous wall or in the 
cellular tissue, might cause an inflammatory reaction. 

It only remains to withdraw the needle and put 
a tampon of wool soaked in alcohol, or, better, in 
tincture of iodine, on the puncture. 

After the injection is finished the patient may go 



158 SYPHILIS AND THE ARMY 

back to his work, except after injections of novarseno- 
benzol, when he must rest for a while. 

If a few drops of blood issue from the little wound, 
this haemorrhage can be easily overcome by putting 
a tampon of wool on the puncture and telling the 
patient to flex his elbow strongly for some minutes. 

After the injection, the syringe must always be care- 
fully washed in cold water, and the needle must be 
syringed through several times to prevent any blood 
remaining and coagulating. If a steel needle is used, 
it must be dried by air, injected with vaseline and 
greased with the latter. 

Intravenous injection, despite the minute technical- 
ities I have just described, is nearly always a simple 
and easy operation which can be performed by any 
careful and fairly skilful surgeon. After a few days' 
practice it can be made very rapidly, in fact, quite 
as quickly as a simple subcutaneous injection. In 
my hospital clinic, with one assistant compressing the 
arm, and another cleaning the syringes and needles, 
and having them boiled, my pupils succeed in making 
sixty injections in an hour, including the time necessary 
for charging the syringes. I have even seen pupils 
make as many as thirty injections, without accident, 
in a quarter of an hour. It is, therefore, not difficult 
in a venereological section on active service to treat 
the majority of patients by this process, on condition 
that the assistants are intelligent, careful, and well 
trained. 

It must be recognised, however, that with certain 
subjects an intravenous injection presents certain 
difficulties. This is rarely the case with vigorous 
adult men, with whom alone we have to deal here. 
Sometimes, however, the veins at the bend of the elbow 
are small, buried in adipose subcutaneous tissue, 
and difficult to find, even on palpation. If none can 
be felt in this region, the injection must be made in 
the forearm, where it is rare not to find a sufficiently 



INTRAVENOUS INJECTIONS 159 

large vein on the outer side ; the position the patient 
is obliged to assume to present it to the operator is 
uncomfortable for both, but the injection is possible. 
It is only as a last resource that an injection should be 
made in a vein of the lower limbs, because, owing to 
the frequency of varicose veins, infection is easier and 
more serious than in the upper limbs. 

One difficulty may arise, not from the smallness, 
but from the mobility of the veins, which sometimes 
causes inconvenience to beginners : the vein slips 
away and cannot be perforated by the needle. To 
prevent this, the best method consists in holding the 
vein in position by means of the left thumb, in the 
way I have recommended above. It has also been 
proposed that, instead of piercing the vein in its 
prominent part, it should be approached laterally, by 
introducing the needle into the skin a little outside 
the vessel, and then pushing it slowly towards the 
vein ; the limit of its elasticity is soon reached, it 
ceases to escape from the point, and can be perforated 
by the needle ; when penetrated, the vein becomes 
distended and resumes its normal position. 

Operative Accidents 

The only operative accidents which may result from 
an intravenous injection are the introduction of the 
injected fluid into the venous wall, and its penetration 
into the peri venous cellular tissue. 

Intraparietal penetration may occur when the 
orifice of the needle is too elongated. It may happen 
that the orifice is partly in the internal tunica of the 
vein and partly communicates with the lumen ; when 
the operator aspirates the syringe, blood flows into 
it, and the operator consequently believes that he 
is in the lumen of the vein, but the remainder of the 
orifice of the needle draws the injection fluid into the 
vascular wall itself. This causes immediate pain, 



160 SYPHILIS AND THE ARMY 

followed by an inflammatory reaction with painful 
induration which persists for several weeks, and may 
hinder the continuation of treatment. 

The penetration of the fluid into the perivenous 
cellular tissue may occur either from the side or front 
of the vein, or behind, when the needle has been 
introduced roughly or at too wide an angle, and has 
passed through the vein from one side to the other. 
This penetration, as I have already stated, may be 
avoided or arrested at once, if care is taken to watch 
closely the injection zone, and the patient is advised 
to at once report any unusual pain. With cyanide 
of mercury and novarsenobenzol, which are very 
irritating substances, there is acute pain, the production 
of a more or less extensive inflammatory nodule, and 
often an eschar which may attain the dimension of a 
shilling, become detached slowly, leave a loss of sub- 
stance, and ultimately an adherent cicatrix. 

When this accident is observed, the intensity 
inflammation and subsequent dimensions of 
eschar may be notably reduced by immediately per- 
forming massage of the region, so as to cause reflux 
of the greatest possible quantity of noxious fluid 
by the track of the needle. Further, compresses 
soaked in fresh water should be applied at once and 
renewed frequently. 

It is not rare, even after an injection which has been 
properly performed, for a subcutaneous ecchymosis to 
appear, due to infiltration of blood from the passage 
of the needle into the cellular tissue : this is an incident 
of no importance. 

Some patients complain of acute pain the moment 
the skin is pierced, which persists for some minutes 
extending down the forearm. This occurs when a 
nerve filament has been injured by the needle, but 
this pain never lasts long. 

Finally, with the exception of eschars, which may 
be avoided almost entirely, given careful technique, 




INTRAVENOUS INJECTIONS 161 

there are never any accidents of importance caused 
as the result of intravenous injections. I do not 
know of a single case of subsequent embolism, even if 
venous indurations have developed. 



Precautions to be taken after Intravenous Injections of 
Cyanide of Mercury 

Mercury, injected into the veins in the form of 
cyanide, is absorbed very rapidly, much more so than 
with any other form of mercurialisation. This is one 
of the advantages of the method, but it may result in 
the possibility of an accident, which must be recognised 
and warned against mercurial colitis. 

Certain subjects, the majority having previously 
suffered from digestive disorders, some hours, or 
perhaps even within an hour, of the intravenous in- 
jection of cyanide of mercury, are suddenly seized 
with acute pain in the region of the colon, violent 
rectal tenesmus, more or less copious diarrhoaa, with 
first sanguinolent, than hsemorrhagic stools. These 
symptoms may last one, two, or three days, and, owing 
to the loss of blood, cause pronounced anaemia. Treat- 
ment consists in the internal use of opium in adequate 
doses, the administration of emollient enemas, and 
application on the abdomen of wool soaked in laudanum 
or large linseed poultices with laudanum. 

These accidents may be prevented almost certainly 
if, at the time of injection, the patient is given an 
opium pill of two or five centigrammes, as I have made 
a rule of doing in my hospital clinic. 

It may be mentioned that these accidents are 
produced almost exclusively after the first or second 
injection of cyanide. With subjects who seem pre- 
disposed to intestinal troubles and with elderly or 
exhausted patients, I have, therefore, made it a rule 
to give the first injection of cyanide in a dose of half 

11 



162 SYPHILIS AND THE ARMY 

a centigramme, or even of a quarter, and increase 
this' gradually. 

When the patient has had an attack of colitis after 
the first injection of cyanide, treatment may be resumed 
with this method later, after waiting a few days and 
recommencing with small doses of cyanide. 

Injections of cyanide of mercury must also be used 
with circumspection in the case of albuminuric patients. 
Some patients have a recrudescence of their albumi- 
nuria after the injections, resulting from the irritative 
action of mercury on the kidneys. Treatment must 
not be continued with these patients. With others, 
no disturbing effects at all are noticed, but both urine 
and diet must be under constant supervision. 

As with all mercurial treatment, the teeth and gums 
must be examined before giving cyanide of mercury 
injections, and kept under observation during treat- 
ment. However, owing to the rapid elimination of 
the drug, stomatitis is rare in patients treated by this 
method. 

All the same, if only by way of precaution and to 
accustom the patients to take the necessary care of 
their mouth and teeth during mercurial treatment, 
they must be ordered to wash out the mouth twice 
daily with white soap or with a tooth-powder contain- 
ing a sufficient proportion of soap. 

Precautions to be taken after Intravenous Injections of 
Novarsenobenzol 

As I have shown above, the after-effects of arseno- 
benzol injections are generally mild. Especially with 
the method of concentrated injections, these are 
nearly always reduced, when they do occur, to tran- 
sient rise of temperature, of which the patient has 
sometimes no knowledge. 

But, in order to obtain this result, it is necessary 
that the patient should have only had light food, not 



INTRAVENOUS INJECTIONS 163 

less than three hours before the injection, and that, 
afterwards, he should keep quiet and be dieted. 

For hospital patients, rest in bed immediately after 
the injection, and for the whole day, is the rule. 

When patients only come into hospital for the 
injection, they can return home at once on foot, if 
they live near, otherwise drive, and go to bed for 
the day. They can resume their ordinary work the 
following day. 

During the day following the injection, they must 
be kept on a strict diet ; water and liquids are alone 
permitted ; at most they may be allowed some soup 
or an egg five hours at least after the injection. 

I have seen patients seized with rigors, intense fever, 
profuse sweating, and repeated vomiting, after having 
disobeyed these orders and taken even a light meal. 



CHAPTER VII 

HYGIENE OF SYPHILITIC SOLDIERS 

HYGIENIC measures, although often neglected, are of 
the utmost importance in syphilis. 

A considerable number of these measures are super- 
fluous, or impracticable, in the case of soldiers. There 
is no need, in the Army, to recommend rest, fresh air, 
moderate exercise and no late hours, such as are 
prescribed for civilians. 

Useful advice, which can be put into practice when 
the men are in camp or at the base, is to keep the 
body clean, especially the genital organs, by means 
of washing, baths, or douches ; these are precautions 
all soldiers should take whenever they have the 
opportunity. 

The following advice is specially suitable for syphi- 
litics. 

(1) Suppression of Tobacco. This should be pro- 
scribed for all syphilitics, at any rate during the first 
year of the disease. Tobacco, no matter under what 
form, pipe, cigarette, cigar, or quid, is the principal 
exciting cause of buccal mucous plaques. A syphilitic, 
who is well treated, and neither smokes nor chews, 
is almost certain to escape them. In hospital, the 
doctor must insist upon total abstinence from tobacco 
for all syphilitics. 

When the man has returned to his unit he often 
ignores this prescription ; it is the duty of the medical 
man to remind him of it. When a patient has had 

164 









HYGIENE OF SYPHILITIC SOLDIERS 165 

numerous recurrences of buccal mucous plaques, and 
continues to smoke despite repeated orders to the con- 
trary, he should be threatened with military punish- 
ment. 

(2) Hygiene of the Mouth. After the use of mercury, 
stomatitis often develops in patients whose buccal 
mucous membrane is not in good condition, especially 
in the region of the gums and teeth. It is indispensable 
that all syphilitics should take particular care of the 
mouth. 

The patient's teeth must be examined before treat- 
ment is commenced, and, if necessary, they must be 
cleaned by a dentist, and all bad teeth stopped. During 
mercurial treatment this examination should be 
repeated. 

Further, every day during mercurial treatment, the 
teeth and gums should be cleansed twice or even thrice 
with a brush, soap and water, or with a powder con- 
taining soap. 

Salol, frequently recommended for cleansing the 
mouth, has an irritant action on the skin, and often 
causes eczema of the labial commissures ; any prepara- 
tions containing it should be severely avoided. 

Many medical men prescribe mouth washes of 
chlorate of potash for their syphilitic patients. This 
solution has merely a detergent action and has no 
advantage over simple boiled water. As a prophy- 
lactic measure against mercurial stomatitis, it is far 
inferior to a soap-wash. Hence, I see no reason for 
recommending it. 

(3) Drinks. Syphilitics must avoid the abuse of 
alcohol, take wine moderately, and refrain from all 
liqueurs and spirits. 

(4) Clothing. Mercury easily induces diarrhoea ; 
syphilitic patients should, therefore, avoid getting 
cold in the abdomen, and a flannel cummerbund is 
recommended. 

(5) Sexual Relations. Syphilitics should refrain from 



166 SYPHILIS AND THE ARMY 

sexual intercourse during the first months, even where 
no contagious lesion is to be found on the genital 
organs. As a matter of fact, the blood is contagious 
at this period, and there is always risk of an excoriation 
being produced during the sexual act. 

The patient must be advised as to the dangers of 
contagion, of the lengthy period during which it may 
exercise its influence, and of the necessity for consulting 
a medical man before marriage, or, in the case of 
married men, of resuming marital relations. 



CHAPTER VIII 

PROPHYLAXIS 

THE prophylaxis of syphilis concerns not only the 
military, but also the civil population, more than any 
other contagious disease which may attack the Army, 
owing to its conditions of transmission. It constitutes 
a social danger, against which every competent and 
authorised effort should be directed, for it can only 
be combated by measures carried out by the combined 
action of the military and civil authorities. 

These measures, of unequal importance and variable 
scope, should be carried out with vigilance, energy, 
and perseverance if satisfactory results are to be 
obtained. They concern men who are infected with 
syphilis, men who are not infected, and women who 
may contract and transmit the disease. They may 
be classified in two main groups : 

1 . Measures intended to prevent infected men from 
transmitting syphilis ; 

2. Measures intended to prevent healthy men from 
contracting syphilis. 

NECESSARY PRECAUTIONS FOR PREVENTING THE 
TRANSMISSION OF SYPHILIS BY INFECTED MEN 

These measures are all within the province of the 
military authorities ; they are given in simple rules 
or circulars emanating from headquarters, and can 
be easily applied. 

The majority of these measures were already in 
167 



168 SYPHILIS AND THE ARMY 

force in peace time ; the increased frequency of 
syphilis as the result of the war renders their execution 
much more urgent : the circulars of the Under- 
secretary of State of the Army Medical Service, dated 
January 5th and September 25th, 1916, set these out 
officially. 

The carrying out of these measures really depends 
less on the officer in command than upon the doctor, 
whose duty it is to see that they are performed in each 
particular case. 



Isolation of Syphilitic Carriers of Contagious Lesions 

Syphilis is transmitted exclusively by direct contact 
of the secretion product from one of the lesions. Thus, 
it can only be transmitted by open syphilitic lesions, 
and then only during the early stages ; later ulcerative 
lesions are only exceptionally contagious.* 

On the other hand, these open lesions become cica- 
trised, either spontaneously, or under the influence 
of treatment in a relatively short time. As regards 
treatment, I have shown that the cicatrisation of a 
chancre, or of mucous plaques, subjected to energetic 
medication at once is a question of fifteen to twenty 
days at the utmost. 

Therefore, to prevent a syphilitic patient from doing 
any harm, it is necessary, and in all probability suffi- 
cient, to isolate him during fifteen to twenty days, 
both in the case of infective chancre, and mucous 
plaques of the genital organs, anus, mouth, or pharynx. 

As a rule, these symptoms attract the attention of 
the patient sufficiently to induce him to consult the 
doctor! 

All the same, it is imperative that all syphilitic 
patients should be examined by the medical officers 
of their company : many pay little attention to a 

* Transmission by blood does exist, but it is so rare that it need 
not be taken into account in prophylactic practice. 



PROPHYLAXIS 169 

small, painless sore, causing no inconvenience, of 
which they suspect neither the nature nor danger, 
especially if it be a dwarf chancre or single mucous 
plaque. Some are afraid of being sent to hospital, or 
deprived of leave, if they complain of a lesion of the 
genital organs, while others, again, dread treatment or 
fear to divulge their malady. 

In short, despite the recommendations and good 
intentions of the medical officers, many syphilitics 
escape examination and remain in the regiments, 
unless the doctors have permission to search for them 
and succeed in running them to earth. 

Medical Inspection 

Even in times of peace, regimental orders provide 
for the medical inspection of the men, especially as 
regards venereal disease, at the time of enlisting, and 
when going on leave and returning. 

These visits include examination of the genital 
organs, anus, and buccal cavity. In order to be 
really efficacious in the discovery of the great majority, 
if not of the total number, of syphilitics, the medical 
man must bring to bear on the case careful attention, 
and genuine knowledge of syphilitic disturbances of 
the skin and mucous membranes. 

Two conditions are demanded, which are not always 
forthcoming : 

( 1 ) Sufficient time for the examination of each man, 
which is not possible in many circumstances, especially 
at the departure for, and return from, leave. 

(2) Proper lighting arrangements and instruments 
necessary for the effective examination of the patients. 
These requirements are far from being satisfactorily 
fulfilled in a hut or tent where the light is often bad. 
As to instruments, these are nearly always rudimentary, 
and the doctor has to make the most strenuous efforts 
to see the different parts of the buccal cavity. 



170 SYPHILIS AND THE ARMY 

It is hardly necessary to mention that all men 
should be compelled to attend the visit of inspection. 
Control by the commanding officer and supervision 
by the non-commissioned officers are indispensable, 
when certain men who, knowing they are syphilitic, 
try all they can to evade detection. 

The order which, in time of peace, releases non- 
commissioned officers from medical inspection, does 
not hold good during war, and should be abolished. 
It is necessary owing to the conditions of common 
life in camp, the fact of N.C.O.'s being often younger 
than their men, and especially on account of the great 
frequency of syphilis. 

It seems difficult, but should be legitimate never- 
theless, to compel officers to submit to medical inspec- 
tion : it is due to medical men attached to the Army 
to use their influence with officers, and persuade them 
to consult them on the slightest suspicious manifesta- 
tion. 

The ministerial circular of April 7th, 1912, advises 
monthly medical visits of inspection. This periodicity 
is inadequate. The circular issued on September 25th, 
1916, was right in advising that they should be made 
twice a month. To be really efficacious the visit should 
be a surprise one. 

Regulations order the medical inspection of all men 
starting on leave and forbid that any soldier carrying 
contagious symptoms should be allowed to go, and 
another inspection when the men return from furlough. 
I doubt whether this second order, which is quite 
rational, is often put into practice. 

The visits are made in the companies of the regiment, 
the depots, and the majority of the services in a more 
or less regular manner, and too much pressure cannot 
be brought to bear on the doctors as to their importance. 
In any case, it is imperative that they should also be 
made in munition works and on all mobilised workmen, 
whether French or belonging to Colonial contingents, 



PROPHYLAXIS 171 

who are working there. These men are under military 
control, but have more opportunities and facilities 
than soldiers at the front for contracting and dis- 
seminating syphilis, and do not neglect them ; more- 
over, they are very often infected, and in a higher 
proportion than occurs in soldiers at the front. They 
should, therefore, be compelled to submit to medical 
inspection, which should be as rigorous as that of the 
latter. It would be easy for some arrangement to 
be made between the medical men and managers of 
munition works, in order that the inspection could 
be made at an hour when it would not interfere with 
work. 

Similarly, in the medical centres inspection should be 
made of men who, while under treatment, are given 
leave to go out, even if only for a few hours. In small 
localities, as in large towns, a great number of them 
contract syphilis. The majority, whose manifestations 
are very evident, cannot dissimulate their condition 
to the doctor in charge, who takes the necessary 
precautions ; but a certain number of them escape 
medical control and treatment. Very justly, the 
circular of September 25th, 1916, prescribes that all 
wounded under treatment at the different centres 
should be subjected to bi-monthly inspection, and, in 
case of venereal infection, treated whenever possible 
like the men in the depots. I have reason to believe 
that this inspection is often neglected; it would be 
invaluable in places where the wounded are kept long, 
but have frequent leave, particularly in physio-thera- 
peutic, mechano-therapeutic, and neurological centres. 

Syphilitics and Hospital Treatment 

Every syphilitic patient, who is a recognised carrier 
of one or more contagious manifestations, should be sent 
to hospital, at any rate until these symptoms disappear. 
This is the absolute rule laid down in the circular of 



172 SYPHILIS AND THE ARMY 

September 25th, 1916, which orders that any patients 
suffering from chancre or the slightest suspicious erosion 
must be sent to a venereal hospital. No exception 
can be allowed, at any rate as concerns soldiers and 
non-commissioned officers, no matter what their 
position or employment. 

The same rule should be established for officers, but 
it might be difficult to get it accepted : it is due to the 
medical officer to decide in each particular case what 
is best to be done, having regard to the usefulness of 
the officer in his position, and the precautions he is 
able to take against disseminating the disease. If 
hospital treatment is necessary, the medical officer 
should assert his authority, in order to get this effected ; 
otherwise, he must carry out energetic treatment him- 
self. 

The hospital should be made an absolute rule for 
all men mobilised in munition works, because they 
are the most dangerous to the civil population in which 
they live. Some doctors, in charge of the medical 
inspection of munition works, when consulted by a 
workman with chancre, give him a fortnight's rest, 
so that he may be treated. This practice is deplorable. 
In the majority of cases, the workman waits some 
days before going to a hospital, receives a prescription, 
which is often inadequate, uses it badly, and when the 
fortnight is over, during which he has rarely failed to 
contaminate some woman, his chancre has not healed. 
Every time a mobilised workman has consulted me 
I have refused to give him a prescription and am- 
bulatory treatment, and have sent him to the doctor 
of his works with a note indicating the necessity for 
his being sent to hospital, and I must acknowledge 
that he has always sent the patient back to me with 
this object. 

Similarly when, from physio-therapeutical or neuro- 
logical centres, a wounded soldier under treatment has 
been sent to me with a syphilitic chancre or mucous 



PROPHYLAXIS 173 

plaque, the medical man in charge arranges to send 
him to me every day, if necessary, for an injection. 

Sending a patient to hospital implies really that he 
will get active syphilitic treatment in order to reduce 
internment to a minimum. I have insisted upon this 
sufficiently when describing the treatment of syphilis 
and need not revert to it. The mere fact of being 
in hospital, in the majority of cases, allows energetic 
anti-syphilitic therapy. The Under-Secretary of State 
has insisted upon this very rightly since January 5th, 
1916. 

In the case of contagious syphilis, the patient, when 
in hospital, must be isolated ; that is to say, during 
his whole sojourn he must not be allowed to go out, 
on any pretext whatever. That is evident. In 
exceptional cases, permission may be given to patients 
to go out, if their time in hospital has been prolonged 
by more or less grave general symptoms, or intercurrent 
diseases; but only on the strict condition that there 
are no longer any active contagious lesions.* 

On leaving hospital, there is no reason for sending 
syphilitic patients on furlough, as is usually the case 
with wounded and sick soldiers evacuated from the 
Front. There is no medical reason why they should 
not at once go back to duty ; their general condition 
is seldom changed by the disease, and even intensive 
arsenical medication improves nutrition so much that 
syphilitics are often in a better condition of health 
when leaving hospital than they were on admission. 

On the other hand also, the concession of leave 
when discharged from hospital would constitute a 
sort of premium on the reproduction of syphilitic 
symptoms, and, if syphilitics are not to be punished 

* As refusal of leave is not intended as a disciplinary measure, the 
remnants of the old-fashioned ideas with regard to " secret " or 
" shameful " diseases, but merely as a hygienic precaution, it is not 
well to refuse permission to syphilitics suffering from tertiary 
lesions, whether ulcerous or not, as there need be no fear of their 
spreading contagion. 



174 SYPHILIS AND THE ARMY 

for having contracted the disease, it would be a pity 
for them to obtain a benefit from it, in the form of 
leave. 

There is justice, therefore, in the circulars of January 
5th and September 25th, 1916, having ordained that, 
on principle, neither leave nor convalescence should 
be granted to venereal patients when discharged from 
hospital. 

Locality of Hospitalisation for Syphilitics. As a 
general rule, they should be sent into hospital as near 
their military post as possible. 

A syphilitic soldier should never be evacuated from 
the Front to the interior, except in the case of serious 
complications. It is important to keep him close 
his regiment, so that, directly the treatment is finished, 
he can rejoin ; instructions are positive on this point, 
and there is no necessity to justify them. 

Even in the interior, the patient should be kept as 
near his centre or depot as possible. 

But, along with this rule, another element must 
taken into consideration : the necessity of seeing that 
the patient is given thorough treatment, i.e. he should 
be placed in a medical centre supplied with all requisite 
resources, not only in material installations, but also 
as regards a competent medical star!. 

No matter what one may think, the diagnosis and 
treatment of syphilis necessitate an adaptation of 
material and staff in order to be carried out with a 
minimum of expense, time, and risk. 

The creation of venereological centres, or dermato- 
syphiligraphic centres, has been realised very happily, 
in the army zone, as well as in the interior. 

There is no doubt that expert medical men, under- 
standing syphilis and its treatment, may be found in 
all the centres, and I am acquainted with a fair number 
of doctors attached to regiments, ambulances, and 
temporary hospitals, who are capable of guaranteeing 
the treatment and recovery of their syphilitic patients 



PROPHYLAXIS 175 

under the best conditions, and in whom one may have 
confidence. In certain cases, there may be an advant- 
age in not removing the patient from his unit and 
centre, but this is applicable only in particular cases. 
The general rule, to which one must bow in the majority 
of cases, is to send syphilitic patients to hospital, or 
to a centre specialised for the treatment of syphilis : 
in the army zone, to a hospital placed in an important 
medical centre ; in the interior, to a special hospital 
clinic, or dermato-syphiligraphic centre of the region. 
The number of these clinics and centres cannot and 
should not be very considerable ; it must vary accord- 
ing to the regions, and may even vary at different 
periods, increasing if the number of syphilitics suddenly 
becomes visibly augmented. They should be situated 
in the neighbourhood of large military and hospital 
agglomerations, so as to reduce simultaneously the 
number and length of movements of the patients. 
Their position, however, has been judiciously settled 
by the military authorities, who have created sub- 
centres of varying number, where they appeared to 
be necessary. 

Beyond the fact that the creation of centres and 
special services permits of the utilisation of competent 
medical men, reduces the number of similar installa- 
tions and, consequently, enables them to be endowed 
with the material necessary for the diagnosis and 
treatment of syphilis, these clinics and centres have 
the advantage of grouping together syphilitic patients. 
They facilitate supervision, which must be more 
active than for ordinary patients, on account of the 
contagiousness of the disease, as well as the suppression 
of leave and inter diction of tobacco. In all respects, 
they give a far superior curative and prophylactic 
result than that obtained when syphilitic patients are 
placed in an ordinary hospital. I may add that, 
owing to their position near the principal places of 
the region, the venereological centres are able more 



176 SYPHILIS AND THE ARMY 

rapidly and completely to enlighten the medical 
officer of health and the commanding officer as to the 
variations of syphilis, the foci of contagion, and 
precautions to be taken in conjunction with the civil 
authorities for arresting their progress. 

Advice to be given to Syphilitic Patients in Hospital. 
The time in hospital must serve, not only for treating 
the patient, but also for educating him with regard 
to his disease and its after-effects, on the precautions 
he must take while in the Army and on his return to 
civil life. 

The discussions held with the men on venere* 
diseases from the moment of their admission to the 
Army are intended to teach them how to avoid venereal 
diseases and learn what to do when suffering from 
them ; but they are often forgotten when the man has 
become syphilitic. It is necessary now to complel 
and develop these, no longer by ex cathedra addres 
but by personal conversations with the men : in a 
words, the doctor must make the patient realise th< 
real gravity of his disease and the precautions h< 
should take, rectifying false or incomplete ideas, 
frightening men who are too indifferent, and reassuring 
those who have got an exaggerated idea of the gravity 
of syphilis and its after-effects. The medical man 
in attendance is thus endowed with a duty of the 
highest importance, both from a humanitarian and 
social point of view, which belongs to him alone, and 
in which he can give full play to his concern for the 
welfare of his patients and of the public. 

In order to facilitate this individual instruction, and 
at the same time impress it upon the patient's memory, 
the majority of sy philologists have for a long time 
written and distributed among their patients a short 
pamphlet, giving the general rules for the treatment 
of syphilis, and the precautions to be taken to avoid 
transmission. The circular of September 25th, 1916, 
advises that these pamphlets should be given to 



PROPHYLAXIS 177 

syphilitics leaving special centres, and discussed with 
them. They are printed on a sheet of strong paper 
and can be kept in the pocket-book as a guide for 
patients. It is my custom to give one to the patient 
when I examine him for the first or second time ; I 
ask him to read it, and, at a subsequent examination, 
it is discussed and explained to him either by me or 
by one of my students. 

It is useful, when discharging the patient, to give 
him a written statement indicating the symptoms from 
which he has been suffering, the treatment he has 
received (drugs used and doses), and the dates of ad- 
mission and discharge. These data may be put on a 
simple sheet of strong paper, which the patient is 
asked to keep and show whenever he has to consult a 
doctor. Further, they ought to be reproduced on 
his hospital card and on his medical case-sheet. 

At the time of leaving hospital the doctor must not 
fail to remind each patient individually of the necessity 
of continuing treatment, of reporting to his regimental 
doctor the moment he notices a symptom of any kind, 
and, even if there are no symptoms, to consult him 
from time to time, so that his condition may be over- 
hauled and the necessary drugs given. 

The circular of September 25th, 1916, advises, 
further, that cutaneous patients should be ordered to 
have ambulatory treatment, which they must follow, 
and recommends that only drugs should be prescribed 
which soldiers are certain of obtaining easily, especially 
at the Front. 

Post-hospital Treatment and Supervision 

The syphilitic who returns to his unit after hospital 
treatment must be kept under observation by the 
regimental doctor. 

In order to do this, it is necessary that the latter 
should have precise knowledge given by the medical 

12 



178 SYPHILIS AND THE ARMY 

man in attendance. In times of peace, military 
doctors, instead of giving the diagnosis of syphilis, 
merely write on the hospital card the number which, 
in the nomenclature of diseases established by the 
public health service, corresponds to syphilis (No. 45) : 
45 a primary syphilis ; 45 b secondary syphilis ; 45 c 
tertiary syphilis. 

The order given on September 25th, 1916, prescribes 
that, when leaving any venereal hospital after am- 
bulatory treatment or after a consultation, a sealed 
copy of the medical report shall be sent to the medical 
officer of the patient's depot, or of the establishment 
where he is employed. This must be carefully com- 
pleted, brought up to date, and classified in the report 
of the venereal patients of the depot. According to 
these instructions, the report should follow the patient 
in his changes of situation, by direct and confidential 
transmission from one medical officer to another. As 
far as possible, the hospital letter must bear nothing 
beyond the indication of a lesional diagnosis, without 
etiological precision. 

These orders answer one of their purposes well, that 
of respecting medical secrets. Indeed, in the majority 
of cases, they respond so well that, after the patient 
has left the hospital, no one has any notion of the 
malady for which he has been treated, least of all his 
company doctor. Confidential reports are misleading, 
and get lost in their multitudinous peregrinations. 

I consider that, in the Army, where the command- 
ing officer is responsible for the health of his men, 
and must take measures to prevent the propagation 
of venereal diseases, medical secrecy is not opposed 
to the fact that, at any rate in war-time, the heads 
of companies should be aware of the cases of venereal 
disease contracted by their men, and this can only be 
effected by the hospital card. It is their duty, as with 
the superintendents of hospitals in times of peace, to 
take precautions so that their employees shall not 



PROPHYLAXIS 179 

divulge this secret. And, further, is this a secret, 
having regard to the promiscuity of camp life and of 
hospitals, where men confide so much to each other ? 

Some men at once request the medical men not to 
inscribe the diagnosis on their cards : there are nearly 
always men who are trying to disguise their disease, 
so as not to be deprived of leave, who wish to obtain 
sick-leave, or escape later from the supervision of 
their company doctor. 

It is indispensable that the regimental doctor should 
receive the instructions given in the circular of Sep- 
tember 25th, 1916, and that no syphilitic should rejoin 
his company without his being advised of his disease 
and the treatment already received. 

The doctor must, according to the order of September 
25th, 1916, make " a special periodical examination of 
all venereal patients, and specially of those who have 
recently left hospital, so that contagious symptoms 
may not pass unnoticed, and the patients may be 
benefited by continuity of treatment " ; and, at the 
time of any change of station, the new medical officer 
should be given information as to all venereal patients, 
especially the syphilitics. 

The instructions do not provide for restrictions as 
to leave granted to syphilitics. It would be necessary 
to deprive all syphilitics, especially those who are 
married, of leave during the whole period when con- 
tagious symptoms are most liable to recur, that is to 
say, during the first six months at least, of syphilis. 

Munition workers should be subjected to the same 
regulations as soldiers in the regiments, as regards 
the obligation of reporting the fact to the doctor, 
when they have been under treatment for contagious 
syphilitic lesions. If there is any difficulty in getting 
them to submit to this visit outside working hours, it 
would be quite simple to replace it by a visit to one 
of the town hospitals or to a venereal centre. Control 
could easily be established. 



180 SYPHILIS AND THE ARMY 

Measures for the Purpose of preventing Healthy Men from 
contracting Syphilis 

These measures are intended for the instruction of 
men on venereal dangers, on the individual precautions 
to be taken for avoiding contamination ; for the in- 
stallation of establishments for the treatment of civil 
syphilitic patients, and finally for the supervision of 
prostitution. 

The Instruction of Men with regard to Venereal Danger 

Lectures on Venereal Diseases. " If I had only 
known that I might contract syphilis, and what it 
means, I should not have run the risk of catching it ! " 
This is what every medical man has more than once 
heard a patient say when told that he had syphilis, 
or who one day showed some grave syphilitic symptom, 
no matter whether this was an adult who had contracted 
the disease in some extra-conjugal intercourse, or an 
adolescent affected the first time he had connection 
with a woman. 

As a result of this ignorance of many men with 
regard to syphilis and the sources of its infection, 
anti-venereal prophylactic measures have been urged, 
to which more and more importance has been attached 
of recent years. Before the war, army doctors had 
received instructions to institute periodical lectures 
for the men, in which venereal diseases, their dangers 
and precautionary measures, were discussed; it has 
even been proposed that such lectures should be 
included in the educational programmes of schools and 
colleges. 

For my own part, I doubt the efficacy of these 
lectures. I have seen too many men expose them- 
selves to infection and become infected, despite the 
fact that serious cases of syphilis had come under their 
notice ; I have seen too many young men, who had 



PROPHYLAXIS 181 

been educated in the most judicious manner as regards 
venereal diseases, contract syphilis or gonorrhoea. 
Finally, I have seen too many medical students and 
doctors become syphilitic during their student days, 
or when in practice, not to be somewhat sceptical as 
to the results of educating young people on the subject 
of anti-venereal prophylaxis. 

It is a particularly delicate matter to give this 
instruction. In an audience of young people, even 
when belonging to a class socially homogeneous, all 
have not similar ideas on sexual questions, and, in order 
to be both understood and useful, the teaching should 
be adapted to the previous knowledge of the subject, 
as well as to the moral tendencies of each of the 
audience. In an audience in which some unruly 
subjects may turn some expression or other of the 
lecturer into derision during or after the lecture, this 
is sufficient to destroy entirely the good effect. 

Individual sexual instruction, given by a highly 
conscientious man with sufficient medical knowledge 
capable of adapting himself to the special conditions 
of each adolescent, such as is given in certain secondary 
schools, and which can be given by the father of a 
family, or the family doctor, is of real value in warning 
young people against venereal diseases ; but this can 
only be carried out with great reserve, and, no matter 
how tactfully done, does not always attain its object. 

In the Army it is obviously impossible to realise 
this individual instruction, as it means unlimited 
leisure on the part of the doctor. Nevertheless, the 
regimental doctor should interest himself in the 
matter. I understand, from several young doctors, 
that they have had the opportunity of discussing 
venereal diseases with their men, and, having gained 
their confidence, have been able to impress them 
with ideas from which they have derived benefit. 
Amongst the services which a regimental doctor may 
render to the Army, if he understands his work well 



182 SYPHILIS AND THE ARMY 

and knows how to mix with the men and gain their 
confidence, while at the same time keeping up the 
prestige of his authority and of his science, not the 
least is the prevention of venereal disease. By means 
of private conversations, the doctor can increase the 
efficacy of the lectures given to units, according to 
regulation orders. Often, too, when talking with 
subalterns at mess, it will be easy for him to educate 
them on venereal matters, showing them the dangers 
and preventive methods, and also how to take care 
of themselves. Thanks to the confidence he has 
inspired in them, they may rely on him sufficiently 
to come to him for treatment at once, should they 
happen to contract syphilis. Further, he will show 
them how eminently important it is to take the pre- 
cautions designed to prevent contamination. 

Finally, it is not as a military authority due to his 
position, but by moral authority, owing to the character 
of his scientific knowledge, that the doctor must play 
his part in the individual instruction of the men and 
the staffs on venereal diseases. This, if I may say so, 
is in his private capacity. 

There remains his part as public instructor. Al- 
though, as I have already stated, public lectures on 
venereal diseases do not seem to me to be as efficacious 
as is generally supposed, they must be given, never- 
theless, because they are according to regulation, and 
also may have a certain modified influence on the 
propagation of these diseases. All useful measures, 
no matter how limited their influence, must be resorted 
to against the scourge of syphilitic infection. 

The object of these lectures, as determined by 
ministerial instruction, is to show men the dangers of 
venereal diseases, the means of avoiding them, and 
the necessity, if contracted, of treating and curing them. 

The lecturer must show briefly, but sufficiently 
clearly that all may understand, the symptoms of 
venereal disease, their manner of onset, the signs by 



PROPHYLAXIS 183 

which they are recognised, or by which their existence 
may be suspected, and also their after-effects and later 
consequences. He must show them that syphilis may 
bring in its train formidable diseases : tabes, general 
paralysis, arteriosclerosis, that it affects future genera- 
tions, kills children before birth, and causes grave 
degeneration in them*. 

These diseases are generally transmitted by direct 
contact, and are nearly always of venereal origin, 
but they may be due to accidental contagion. Conse- 
quently, they would be almost certainly avoided if 
sexual intercourse were abstained from. Here the 
lecturer should show, especially if he is addressing 
recruits, that continence is never the cause of any ill- 
ness or disorder, and that a man may abstain from 
sexual relations without any danger, contrary to the 
general opinion amongst the young. 

He must show how dangerous women are who give 
themselves up to uncontrolled clandestine prostitution, 
such as waitressses in restaurants, etc., but at the 
same time he must not guarantee that controlled 
prostitutes can be absolutely relied upon. 

He should also recommend that, no matter what 
women a man has intercourse with, he should use a 
rubber protector, or applications of ointments, etc. 
(see p. 186). 

If, in default of these precautions, or even in spite 
of them, symptoms of venereal disease develop, the 
soldier must at once consult the regimental doctor. 
By doing this, he will be certain of not being pun- 
ished as he would be if he waited until the disease 
was discovered ; he will also be sure of being properly 
treated ; whereas, if he follows the advice of a comrade, 
he runs the risk of being badly looked after, and of 
suffering all the consequences of the disease ; and if 
he goes to a quack, or to some pretended anti-venereal 
institute, he will, at the same time, be badly treated 
and spend a lot of money. 



184 SYPHILIS AND THE AEMY 

It is well to add that the treatment of syphilis 
should be prolonged, in order to avoid evil consequences 
both for the patient himself and for future generations. 

Of course, the lecture must conclude with a patriotic 
note on the dangers of syphilis for the race, and 
the soldier should be told that, if he wishes to avoid 
giving the disease to his wife, or the sweetheart who is 
waiting to marry him after the war, if he wishes to 
have a healthy family, whose future is secured by his 
bravery, he must keep clear of venereal diseases. 

Such are the chief points in these lectures. Accord- 
ing to the different military centres in which they are 
held, recruits, units already formed, the territorial 
army, munition workers, etc., certain paragraphs may 
be amplified or cut down to suit the occasion. 

There can be no question here of giving the medical 
men appointed for delivering these lectures more 
than general indications. According to the centre, 
the intelligence of the audience, and the knowledge 
he has of any local danger of contamination, the 
lecturer will know how to vary his effects. He must 
never forget, above all, that his audience is a very 
mixed one, completely ignorant of medical terms, and 
that he must use expressions capable of being under- 
stood by all, even if they are defective from a medical 
point of view, and, if possible, they must be graphic. 
Without becoming trivial, he must not forget that 
he must speak the language of the people who are 
listening to him, to a certain extent ; he must call 
gonorrhoea " clap," and syphilis " pox " or " great 
pox " and must not fail to mention that it has nothing 
in common with small-pox and should call simple 
chancre " soft chancre." 

If the lecturer can get some drawings, prints, 
photographs, or models representing the principal 
forms of venereal disease, he should not miss showing 
them to his audience. Whenever possible, they should 
be thrown upon a screen, a mode which specially 



PROPHYLAXIS 185 

impresses the masses. All these illustrations must be 
very simple, and clear. 

The sexual and anti-venereal education of men is 
not done only by word of mouth. In order that oral 
instruction remains fixed in the memory, it must be 
corroborated by some printed matter. 

After the lectures, it will be necessary, if this distri- 
bution has not already been made, to give to each 
of the audience a brief account of venereal diseases 
and their prophylaxis. This should be in the form 
of a summary of the lectures as much as possible ; it 
should be enlarged more or less, in the form of a leaflet, 
which should be typed and copied in the office of the 
battalion. In default of this summary by the medical 
lecturer, which has the advantage of being better 
adapted to the needs of the unit before whom the 
lectures have been given, some of the pamphlets 
published on this subject may be distributed. 

Distribution to the Troops of Pamphlets on Venereal 
Diseases. Since the beginning of the war, pamphlets 
on contagious diseases have been printed for the use 
of soldiers.* 

These pamphlets, which the men can read at leisure, 
or ask their officers or doctors to explain to them, are 
very useful, and the Public Health Authorities have 
rendered a great service by printing them. 

With regard to venereal diseases, one pamphlet has 
been brought out by the Academy of Medicine, and 
another printed by the Public Health Service in a 
small leaflet distributed to the troops at the beginning 
of 1916. These instructions constitute an important 
weapon, and their distribution should be encouraged 
in every way possible. I consider that they form an 
indispensable complement to the lectures, and may 
have even a greater influence than the latter on serious 

* Following out the same idea, pictorial anti- venereal propaganda 
are recommended, the tentative efforts already made in France 
deserving to be encouraged. 



186 SYPHILIS AND THE ARMY 

men with reasoning power, capable of seeking the 
explanation of the prophylactic measures, and may 
aid the doctors as an excuse and subject of conversation 
with the different men. 

In Italy, where the anti-venereal struggle began 
several months before the declaration of war, and 
was organised with extreme care, similar notices were 
distributed on a large scale.* The Committee of 
Medical Propaganda of Milan caused them to be left 
in public places, in military refreshment bars at the 
railway stations, under cover of an envelope bearing 
this inscription : " Italian soldiers, if your health is 
dear to you, if you wish for the welfare of your family 
and country, read, mark, and observe the instructions 
contained in this envelope." 

Personal Precautions 

A large number of syphilitic contaminations would 
be avoided if the men took simple and well-known 
precautions at the time of sexual intercourse. 

The first of these precautions consists in careful 
examination of the genital organs, so as to be certain 
that there are no excoriations or sores through which 
contamination might occur. 

The use of a rubber protector of good quality, which 
is neither perforated nor has been used before, is a 
very great, if not an absolute, guarantee against 
syphilitic infection. But it is also essential that there 
should be neither sore, excoriation from scratching, 
nor parasite, such as the pediculus pubis, on any of 
the adjoining regions not covered by the protector 
(pubis, inside of thighs). 

Failing a rubber protector, it is nearly always 
possible to rub an ointment into the whole of the 

* Pasini, " Cio che si fa nella sede del III. Corpo d'armata per 
la profilassi della malattie veneree" (Giornale italiano delle malattie 
veneree e della pelle, 1915, fasc. v.); 



PROPHYLAXIS 187 

surface of the genital organs, vaseline by preference, 
which, by preventing direct contact with the virulent 
secretions, resists contagion to a certain extent. 

After coitus, washing with soap and water is a useful 
prophylactic measure. This should be done as quickly 
as possible, using plenty of soap, especially over the 
glans and frenum. Soap is a well-known antiseptic 
for various kinds of parasites ; the treponema of 
syphilis, which is easily vulnerable, does not seem able 
to resist it any more than Ducrey's bacillus.* 

More or less concentrated alcohol may also serve for 
sterilising virulent syphilitic products ; this is known 
to be the most certain and practical way of disin- 
fecting a doctor's hands after examining syphilitic 
patients. 

In default of soap and alcohol, continued washing 
with pure water or with the addition of sublimate may 
be done. 

As the result of experiments on apes, in which 
inoculation of syphilitic products, followed by energetic 
friction with calomel ointment, remained negative, 
Metchnikoff recommended friction with an ointment 
containing 33% of calomel, as a means of preventing 
syphilis. 

A certain number of patients having developed 
syphilitic chancres after using this ointment, Metchni- 
koff's preventive method has been denounced by the 
majority of medical men. Probably it merited neither 
this reprobation nor the value attributed to it by 
Metchnikoff . If used, it should be preceded by wash- 



* The experiments of Giovannini (" Tentativi di disinfezione di fer- 
ite infette con pus di ulceri veneree per mezzo del sapone comune" 
(Gazzetta medico, di Torino, 1898, Nos. 45 and 46) have shown that 
washing with soap and water acts very energetically on the bacillus 
of simple chancre : out of twenty- one experiments, a chancre only 
developed ten times. The most favourable conditions for success 
in washing are the superficial character of the sore (sore by abrasion) 
the small quantity of virus on its surface, the short time that has 
elapsed between infection and soaping, and prolongation of soaping. 



188 SYPHILIS AND THE ARMY 

ing with soap, of which it strengthens the action and 
should follow immediately upon suspected coitus.* 

Ministerial circulars, dating from September 23rd, 
1907, and November 16th, 1907, order that calomel 
ointment should be supplied to the regimental hospitals. 

Creation of Centres for the Treatment of Syphilis amongst 
the Civil Population 

For the last fifteen years, the staffs of special hospitals 
have treated patients suffering from syphilis as out- 
patients, without interning them. 

In Paris, drugs are distributed on a large scale for 
the treatment of syphilis by the special hospitals (Saint 
Louis, Broca, Cochin). 

The general use of mercurial injections has greatly 
facilitated the ambulatory treatment of syphilis. 
Since 1902, my colleague Brocq and I, at the Broca 
Hospital, have given out-patient treatment to syphilitic 
women on a large scale ; since then, nearly all special 
hospitals have added polyclinics to their departments 
for syphilitic treatment, by means of mercurial in- 
jections. 

More recently, the use of arsenical compounds has 
enabled these polyclinics to render still more help, by 
realising the energetic treatment of syphilis, especially 
during the primary periods, without sending the 
patient to hospital. The dispensaries t attached to 
certain services consist of the old polyclinics, enlarged, 
brought up to date, and supplied with a complete staff. 

Consultations on a Sunday, as well as in the evening, 
have made it possible for all patients, especially work- 
men, to be treated in an efficacious manner. 

* Syphilis is not the only venereal disease against which pre- 
cautions should be taken after coitus. I shall not go into details 
with regard to gonorrhoea, as I am only concerned with syphilis here. 

f Jeanselme and Hudelo, " The Part played by the Dispensaries 
at the Broca Hospital in the Campaign against Syphilis" (Bulletin 
de I'Academie de Medecine, March 28th, 1916, p. 364). 




PROPHYLAXIS 189 

Alfred Fournier specially recommended the gener- 
alisation of these centres for treatment, having demon- 
strated their share in the prophylaxis of syphilis, and 
devoted several publications to what he called Prophy- 
laxis by means of treatment. 

What has been done in Paris has also taken place in 
the majority of the large centres. 

It is certain that the more establishments there are 
for patients, where they can be treated gratuitously, 
the more chance is there of their being treated. The 
better these establishments are organised for treatment, 
the more rapid will be the cure of contagious syphilitic 
lesions, and consequently the fewer the number of 
patients capable of transmitting the disease and the 
less the chances of contamination. 

The polyclinics and dispensaries for patients who 
cannot, or will not, be treated in hospital, and the 
hospital services open to syphilitics, especially con- 
tagious cases which cannot be treated at home or 
whose symptoms require special attention, constitute 
two complementary organisations. The first is recom- 
mended, owing to the small expense it incurs, both for 
public money and for the patients themselves, who 
can continue work while under treatment ; the second 
has the great advantage that, while giving more ener- 
getic treatment than the first, it withdraws from circu- 
lation patients men and women during the period 
they are contagious. 

These two can be created by the hospital adminis- 
tration without difficulty or large expense, and without 
legal intervention. Subjected to the same freedom 
of action as the hospitals, they receive the patients 
who come spontaneously, without any coercion from 
the police. 

The difficulties with regard to working them are 
more trouble to overcome, especially in time of war. 

Both military and civil authorities have realised the 
importance of increasing hospital resources for the 



190 SYPHILIS AND THE ARMY 

treatment of venereal patients. Their union has been 
genuinely fruitful, and their combined initiative has 
given all syphilitics both men and women the 
facility for treatment they desire, and will do so still 
more in the future. 

Under the inspiration of two eminent hygienists, 
Medical Inspector General Vaillard and M. Brisac, 
Director of Public Assistance and Hygiene to the 
Minister of the Interior, M. Malvy, Minister of the 
Interior, and M. Justin Godart, Under-Secretary of 
State for the Military Medical Service, came to a perfect 
agreement, in March 1916, as to the necessary measures 
to be taken for the creation, extension, and working 
of the special services and of dermato-venereological 
consultations. 

The Minister of the Interior decided on the creation 
of special services with dispensaries, called additional 
hospital services, in all the localities where the number 
of venereal patients rendered it necessary, and where 
it was possible. These offer all facilities to patients 
who have contracted these diseases, so that they may 
be treated gratuitously and with absolute secrecy. 

These additional services, established principally in 
localities depending upon the hospital establishments 
themselves, are set up in all localities where regional 
military authority, in conjunction with the local civil 
authorities, indicate the necessity. 

Owing to the paucity of civil surgeons in many 
localities, the medical service, when necessary, is 
assisted by military surgeons. 

A certain number of additional services were soon 
organised, and enable one to establish, at the same 
time, their important part and the conditions of their 
organisation and working. 

By a circular, dated May 21st, 1916, the Minister 
of the Interior advised the prefects to generalise the 
creation of these services, and, in conjunction with 
the Regional Direction of the Medical Service, to use 




PROPHYLAXIS 191 

their authority with the administrative commissions 
of the hospitals and asylums, so that they should be 
set up in all necessary localities. As it concerned a 
service of general interest, it was announced that 
the State would share in the expense caused by their 
organisation and working. 

The additional services have been created in a large 
number of localities outside large towns, where they 
have extended the services of venereology and dermat- 
ology of peace times. Their extent and resources vary 
in accordance with the importance of the civil and mili- 
tary populations. 

Their working is carried out nearly everywhere by 
military doctors, especially by the medical men who 
are heads of dermato-syphiligraphic centres and sub- 
centres, or by others, not mobilised, in charge of 
prostitutes. 

In some districts, the local authorities offered some 
opposition to the formation of these dispensaries ; but, 
as a rule, they have taken an active interest in the 
Army Medical Service. 

The results appear to have been remarkable, the 
number of consultations having increased rapidly ; 
thanks to the activity of the doctors, and despite 
the defectiveness of certain localities, the treatment 
of syphilis has been installed under good conditions. 
It is only right here to mention that the zeal of some 
medical chiefs of centres, amongst whom I have 
pleasure in citing Dr. Pautrier, Head of the Dermato- 
syphiligraphic Centre at Bourges, has soon given tone 
and example to these assistant services. 

From experience acquired, in order to facilitate the 
entrance of patients to the additional dispensaries, 
it is advisable not to confine them exclusively to 
venereal diseases, but to use them for both dermato- 
logical and venereal cases. 

For reasons easy to understand, the additional 
services must be separated from the localities in 



192 SYPHILIS AND THE ARMY 

which diseased prostitutes are detained. On the other 
hand, however, they are suitable for the treatment of 
women who have given themselves up to clandestine 
prostitution, and having been arrested and found 
to be diseased, cannot, under the terms of the present 
law, be kept under arrest, because they do not live 
solely by prostitution, but to whom the police are 
compelled to recommend treatment. 

Beyond this recruiting by administrative agency, 
syphilitics can only be led to the additional dispen- 
saries by persuasion, or attracted there by the reputa- 
tion of these services. Medical men may institute 
a useful propaganda by getting their poor patients 
to go there ; but, above all, it is necessary that the 
civil authorities should make known their existence 
by discrete publicity ; and the managers of work- 
shops and industrial concerns should persuade their 
workpeople to go there, when attacked by venereal 
diseases. 

These additional services will obtain their recruits 
by their work ; patients who have recovered will 
gradually tell their fellow-workmen suffering from 
cutaneous or venereal disease. 

It is to be hoped that, after the war, these additional 
dispensaries, established through necessity, will con- 
tinue to carry out the treatment of venereal patients 
in a certain number of towns, outside large centres, 
where they have been generally neglected, and dissipate 
certain prejudices with regard to these patients. 

The Supervision of Prostitution 

Essentially, the additional dispensaries and gratuit- 
ous consultations only receive patients who have come 
voluntarily and nearly always spontaneously. They 
apply solely to syphilitics who know they are ill and 
want to be cured ; they do not protect society either 
against syphilitics, who are ignorant of their disease, 




PROPHYLAXIS 193 

nor against those who, knowing they are ill, do not 
hesitate to transmit their disease, rather than be treated 
and abandon all sexual intercourse. 

The expression prophylaxis by treatment, which 
has gained renown from Founder's great authority, 
is somewhat unfortunate, because it has seemed to 
some to constitute the only formula of the prophylaxis 
of syphilis. In reality, prophylaxis by treatment, so 
much praised by Fournier, is a very incomplete prophy- 
laxis, realised solely by patients of good intention ; it 
does not reach those whose intentions are evil or who 
are weak-willed. 

In order that a woman suffering from contagious 
syphilis will consult a doctor, it is necessary : (1) that 
she knows she needs treatment and that she can be 
treated at a hospital or dispensary ; (2) that she is 
willing to be treated. 

Many women who at the present time abandon them- 
selves to prostitution have only the vaguest notions 
of venereal diseases ; many of those who have gone 
on to the streets since the beginning of hostilities, or 
have yielded themselves to men at the back of a shop, 
have but little idea of what may happen to them in the 
future. 

The majority are ignorant of the dangers they are 
running and of those they continue to run until the day 
when, owing to some serious or painful affection, they 
are unable to continue their business or are accused by 
one of their clients of having transmitted a disease to 
him. 

Medical men in special hospitals know that it is 
rare to see an infective chancre in a woman. At the 
Broca Hospital, where the patients consist of women 
living a free life, as at the St. Louis Hospital, not one 
syphilitic woman out of twenty comes for consultation 
owing to chancre ; most of them do not think of having 
a doctor unless they have mucous plaques, and some- 
times what a quantity of these! On hearing that 

13 



194 SYPHILIS AND THE ARMY 

even the previous day they have had sexual intercourse, 
the number of men they may have infected during 
the last six weeks is terrible. 

Despite the circulation among the people of in- 
structions as to venereal diseases, and the multi- 
plicity of places for treatment, the spectacle of our 
consultations has not changed. 

The efforts made by the medical authorities in spread- 
ing these ideas and making known the existence and 
working conditions of these establishments intended 
for the treatment of venereal diseases, no matter how 
admirable and energetic they may be, run foul of 
impossibilities and only succeed in reaching some 
factory girls. 

Therefore, we cannot count absolutely on the good- 
will of diseased women with regard to treatment. In 
order to thoroughly realise the prophylaxis of syphilis 
by the treatment of syphilitic women, persuasion, 
together with the spontaneous entry into hospital, is 
insufficient. Something more is necessary. 

Since the authorities have considered the subject of 
the propagation of venereal diseases, they have tried, 
by means of police measures, to withdraw from circu- 
lation women who are affected. From this originated 
supervision of prostitution, leading to the arrest of 
prostitutes, to medical inspection, to registration of 
those known to ply the trade of prostitution, or who, 
in order to take advantage of certain immunities 
resulting from registration, ask to have their names 
inscribed on the register of official prostitution, and 
finally to the periodical inspection of registered women 
to see if they are suffering from contagious diseases, 
in which case they are sent to hospital. 

To this must be added the opening of licensed 
houses, under police supervision, where the occupants 
are subjected to repeated medical inspection. 

These different measures have aroused numerous 
and diverse protests, in the name of morality, of 



PROPHYLAXIS 195 

individual liberty, often the result of an exaggerated 
sensitiveness. 

There is no doubt that there have been abuses in 
the repression of prostitution, that the officials charged 
with the investigations have often made mistakes, 
and that unjustifiable arrests have sometimes been 
made. All this, however, is not sufficient to prevent 
society from protecting itself against a disease which 
has a disastrous influence upon public health and the 
race, which has become a social danger, and, at the 
present time, constitutes a national peril. 

It is not a question of confining women who lead 
an immoral life as a punishment, as if they were lepers, 
but of treating women who give themselves up to 
prostitution, and are diseased, and are liable to in- 
fect every day the men to whom they yield them- 
selves. It is necessary that prostitutes should be 
subjected to medical inspection, and that all those 
found to be diseased should be treated, at least during 
the contagious stages. After these symptoms have been 
cured, and they have been shown how to look after 
themselves, they should be subjected to repeated 
examinations and again treated, if they are found to 
have symptoms. 

Such, from the medical point of view, is the postulate 
of the prophylaxis of syphilis. 

As Balzer says,* the supervision of prostitution is the 
only measure which can give the immediate results which 
it is necessary to obtain in the matter of venereal 
prophylaxis in the Armies. 

The supervision should apply not only to the women 
known by the police to practise prostitution, the 
registered women, but also to those who solicit in the 
streets and public places, and to those who are declared 
by the soldiers to be the origin of undoubted con- 
taminations. 

* " Prophylaxis and Treatment of Venereal Diseases in Time of 
War" (Preaae medicate, October 14th, 1915, p. 401). 



196 SYPHILIS AND THE ARMY 

The Academy of Medicine was justified when, at 
the meeting on June 13th, 1916, it demanded that 
there should be police supervision, not only with regard 
to street prostitution, but also to that in public places. 

For a long time there have been rules ordering a 
soldier to report the woman who has contaminated 
him. This measure has often been criticised, and the 
remark has been made that the statements of men are 
often erroneous, either voluntarily or involuntarily, 
that sometimes they knowingly denounce women 
who have nothing to do with their disease. Despite 
these mistakes, which are less frequent than has been 
stated, the men's declarations are often most useful 
in acquainting the police with women who disseminate 
syphilis. These declarations are made under the 
control of the regimental doctor, who must himself 
question the soldiers and specify the disease from which 
they are suffering, as was again ordered in the circular 
of September 25th, 1916. They must be transmitted 
to the local police, who must supervise and, whenever 
possible, cause the incriminated women to be examined. 

In the army zone syphilitic contaminations occur, as 
I have shown, from nearly all classes of women who 
are there, especially those who trade with the soldiers 
in some form or another. 

To be efficacious, supervision should apply to all 
women who may be suspected of yielding to men. This 
is the easier because there are but few women living 
in this zone, and all are known to the military authori- 
ties. It is due, not only to the military authorities, 
but also to the police of the zone, to take the necessary 
measures, and the medical department must see that 
they are carried out by the military doctors. 

In the rest zone, contamination originates with 
women who live habitually in the country, as well as 
numbers of others attracted there by the presence 
of the soldiers. Prophylactic action should apply 
to one as much as to the others. It is the duty of 



PROPHYLAXIS 197 

both military and civil authorities, and can only be 
efficacious on condition that there is a close under- 
standing between the two authorities. Here, again, 
the military doctors are the ones who have most 
frequently to guarantee the medical part of the service. 

At the base, the great majority of contaminations 
are due to women on the streets and servants in restaur- 
ants and public-houses. Supervision should be given 
in the streets, especially around the stations and 
near the factories when the workmen are leaving ; 
but not only on the large boulevards, as in peace time, 
and at night-fall, but at all times and in a very large 
number of streets. This supervision must not be 
exercised solely on women known to the police. 

Borne * says, with regard to police supervision in 
Paris since the war : " The public authorities have 
moved, and the prefecture of police has given orders, 
to arrest girls and their bullies around the stations ; 
but, as figures would be necessary to satisfy public 
opinion, special brigades have assembled the registered 
women well known to them. These, according to 
the authority of the prefecture of police whom we 
consulted, are contagious in the proportion of 10% 
only, for the inspection and prophylaxis of licensed 
women have continued to be enforced rigorously and 
regularly during the war, so that there are 90% of 
healthy women subjected to each drive." 

Two words only on the question of licensed houses. 

Although the security they give to their clients is 
only relative, and syphilitic infection is not rare in 
them, these establishments, when well supervised, 
play an important part in the prophylaxis of venereal 
diseases. 

It is necessary that they should be visited frequently 
and unexpectedly. With the afflux of clients the war 

* Borne, " Hygiene of the Soldier on Leave in Paris. Prophy- 
laxis of Contagious Diseases" (Paris medicate, August 12th, 1916, 
p. 133). 



198 SYPHILIS AND THE ARMY 

brings them, both in the army zone and at the base, 
these visits must be made daily, as required by the 
Academy of Medicine. It is imperative that the 
medical men in charge should have at their disposal 
a sufficiently lighted place for examination, and the 
necessary instruments. The co-operation of the mili- 
tary doctors is to be counted on in all localities where 
the absence of competent civil surgeons renders it 
useful. 

In the Manchurian War the Japanese installed free 
licensed houses, subjected to regular medical visits, and 
attributed to this the very small venereal morbidity 
of their Army ; whereas, with the Russians, the 
number of venereal patients was very high. 

In the Italian Army, which was supplied with 
licensed houses during the Syrian War, the Powers 
have organised licensed houses even in the localities 
near the Austro-Italian Front. 

To return to free prostitution. 

When a woman is known to be a regular prostitute, 
has been arrested several times, and is suffering from 
contagious lesions, when, above all, these lesions have 
recurred after a preliminary treatment, or she has 
not been treated after being warned, she should no 
longer be advised, but compelled to have treatment. In 
these conditions, according to the custom in Paris, 
she must have her name inscribed on the list of pros- 
titutes, and be subjected to all the obligations neces- 
sitated by registration. 

Registered women, at their own request, or as an 
administrative measure, must be subjected to regular 
and frequent medical examination. In Paris they 
are expected to present themselves at the Prefecture 
of Police for a medical inspection twice a month, on 
dates of their own selection. This periodicity is 
altogether inadequate : the security given men who 
have relations with women of this class is never more 
than relative ; it is almost nil with bi-monthly visits. 



PROPHYLAXIS 199 

These should take place at least twice a week if real 
prophylactic results are to be obtained. Any woman 
found to be affected when examined should be at 
once sent to the place where prostitutes are treated, 
and, as I have already mentioned, this should be inde- 
pendent of the additional hospital services, There 
she will be treated actively, and not discharged until 
the contagious symptoms have disappeared. 

The "registered" women, known to be syphilitic, 
are given a card of a special colour in Paris, and obliged 
to submit, during two years, to a weekly inspection. 
All facilities for being treated should be given them, 
by means of consultations at the additional hospitals. 

For the execution of such measures, the collabora- 
tion of both civil and military authorities is necessary. 
In all localities where the paucity of civil surgeons 
does not allow regular examination of prostitutes, 
instructions were given on September 25th, 1916, 
ordering the army doctors to participate in this service. 
In the army zone, by regulation, the commanding 
officer may order a military doctor to assist in 
examining the women in question, when this examina- 
tion is made by a civil surgeon. 

In the army zone, the majority of these measures 
relative to the supervision of prostitutes are carried 
out, owing to the power vested in the commanding 
officer. 

The same applies to a certain number of inland 
towns, where the collaboration of a venereal specialist, 
an energetic medical officer of health, a prefect under- 
standing his hygienic mission, and a municipality 
stripped of prejudice, has enabled all desirable 
measures to be taken, and the result, in all these towns, 
has always been a reduction of venereal contamination. 
In very many localities in the rest zones and in the 
interior, there is still much to be done, and it is necessary 
that measures should be taken. 

They can only be effected, at the present time, by 



200 SYPHILIS AND THE ARMY 

the good-will of the municipalities, who hold the 
necessary powers for the order and execution of the 
medical regulations. 

Consequently, for local reasons, some municipalities, 
not having sufficient understanding of the present 
necessities and of the interest of the whole nation, 
hesitate or refuse to regulate the supervision of pros- 
titution. 

Some have judicial scruples and do not consider 
that they are authorised to make the necessary arrests. 
The question of legality appears to be decided by 
jurisprudence. 

As a matter of fact, in February 1915, the Minister 
of the Interior announced to the prefects and mayors 
that the Court of Appeal recognised that the municipal 
authority had the right to enter the names of clandes- 
tine prostitutes on the police register and to compel 
them to submit to medical inspection, including the 
interdiction of soliciting, or even of gathering around 
certain public establishments. 

The mayors may, therefore, take the most important 
of the necessary measures ; in default of their initiative, 
or in the presence of their inertia, the public authorities 
must not remain disinterested, and it is urgent that, 
wherever this is necessary, the prefects may take this 
problem in hand and, with the authority they possess, 
enforce the necessary regulation. 

In Italy,* where for years the relative liberty of 
prostitution, due to the " Crispi regulations," favoured 
the considerable extension of syphilis, and where 
rational measures were taken at the beginning of the 
campaign, the Minister of the Interior, supported by a 
decree of the Lieutenant-General of the Kingdom, did 

* Balzer, " Anti-venereal Prophylaxis by Civil and Military 
Administration" (Presae medicale, January 13th, 1916, p. 10). 
Clement Simon, " Report presented to the Minister of the Interior 
and the Under- Secretary of State for Medical Services on the Anti- 
venereal Prophylactic Organisation in Italy" (Annalea des maladies 
veneriennes, October 1916, p. 677). 



PROPHYLAXIS 201 

not hesitate to write on September llth, 1915 : " Pre- 
fects henceforth may adopt the strictest and most 
rigorous measures, even sacrifice of the principle of 
individual liberty, in the public interest." 

If administrative authority does not consider itself 
sufficiently armed for the combat against the pro- 
pagation of syphilis by repressing prostitution, it is 
necessary that it should be reinforced. 

The superior interest of public health has already 
caused the intervention of legislation, by ordering 
anti-variolic vaccination, and, a short time before the 
war, anti-typhoid inoculation, measures the efficacy 
of which has been happily demonstrated by the 
disappearance of small-pox and the considerable 
diminution of the number of cases of typhoid fever. 
This interest is no less compromised by the propagation 
of syphilis, which, as I showed at the beginning of this 
book, is a present, as well as a future, menace to the 
country. It is time that measures were taken to check 
this propagation. It is the duty of the public authori- 
ties, the legislators if necessary, to take all the requisite 
measures, even should they require, for the benefit of 
the community, the restriction of individual liberty. 
The regular super vision of prostitution and its repression 
are necessities, both at the present time, and after the 
war. Every one must bear his responsibility in this 
question, without any regard to secondary considera- 
tions, political or otherwise. 



INDEX 



Abadie, 106 
Absorbent wool, 152 
Academy of Medicine, 33, 196, 198 
Accidental Insurance Company, 18 
Accidents, intravenous injection, 
109 

operative, 159 

Acid nitrate of mercury, 142, 143 
Acne, syphilitic, 76 
Acneiform syphilide, 76, 143 
Active syphilic treatment, 173 
Acute cirrhosis, 133 

encephalitis, 133 

meningo-myelitis, 84 
Additional hospital services, 190, 

191, 192 
Adenitis, 55 
Adenopathy, 42 

of chancre of lip, 68 

satellite, 42 
Administration, endermic, 98 

of mercury intramuscular, 98 
objections to, 100 

of mercury, intravenous, 106, 107 
Advantages of intravenous in- 
jections, 107 
Advice as to hygiene, 164 

to hospital patients, 176 
Affection of auditory nerve, 131 
Affections, arsenobenzol and sen- 
sory, 84 

nervous, 83 

statistics of cutaneous and 
venereal, 3, 4 

treatment and tertiary, 141 

visceral, 83 

After-effect of novarsenobenzol in- 
jections, 126, 127, 128 
Agents, antiseptic, 91 
Albuminuria, 22, 86, 146 

and arsenobenzol, 133 

and cyanide of mercury, 162 
Alopecia, 19 

syphilitic, 79, 80 
Ambulatory treatment, 188 
Aneurism, aortic, 133 
Angina, Vincent's, 69, 82 
Anilarsinate of sodium, 110 
Antecedents and secondary syphilis, 

patient's, 45 
Antiseptic agents, 91 

fluid, 152 

soap as, 187 
Anti-venereal struggle, Italy and, 

186 

Aortic aneurism, 133 
Apes, experiments on, 187 
Aphasia, 83 
Aphthae, 81 
Apparatus, intravenous injection 

(Fig. 1), 151 

Appearance of spirochsete, 50 
Aqueous solution of biniodide of 

mercury, 104, 107 
Army, frequency of syphilis in the, 1 

origin of contagion in the, 7 

treatment at the front, 147 



Army, treatment in depots and se- 
dentary services, 148 
scheme for, 139 
special conditions of, 89, 90, 91 

zone contaminations, 12, 13, 196 
Arrhenate of mercury, 110 
Arsenic, 89, 91, 110 

association of mercury and, 136, 

137, 138, 140, 141 
Arsenical compounds, 110 

preparations, 134 

treatment, ulcerations due to, 55 
Arsenobenzol, 41, 136, 137 

and albuminuria, 133 

cutaneous eruptions and, 133 

deaths from, 130 

description of, 110, 111, 112, 113 

mercury and, 132, 133 

nervous system and, 130 

neurotropism of, 132 

pseudo-chancre and, 64, 65 

sensory affections and, 84 

serious accidents of, 128, 129, 130 
Arthritis, gonorrhoeal, 18 
Artificially induced lesions, 81 
Atoxyl, 110 
Atrophy of liver, yellow, 133 

testicular, 29 
Attachment, rubber, 152 
Attack and barrage, treatment by, 

139 

Attacking treatment, 108 
Auditory hallucinations, 131 

nerve labyrinth, lesions of, 84 
Audry, Charles, 24-97 

and insurance statistics, 24 
Audry's suppositories, 97, 98 
Baccelli, 106 
Bacillus, Ducrey's, 57 

Loeffler's, 70 
Balanitis, 55 

erosive and ulcerous, 62 
Balzer, 1, 110, 117, 195, 200 
Bar, 27 
Barrage, treatment by attack and, 

139 
Basal infiltration, 60 

meningitis, 84 

Base zone and contamination, 13, 14 
Basilar meningitis, 131 
Baths, sulphur, 143 
Bazin and Legendre's syphilitic 

plaques, 74, 75 
B6champ, 110 
Bell-clapper penis, 40 
Benario, 131 
Benzo-sulphono-para-aminophenyl- 

arsinate of sodium, 110, 134 
Benzoate of m ercury , solution of , 1 04 
Bergeron and Letulle, 22 
Bertarelli's method of examination, 

52 

Bevel, The, 151 
Biett's collar, 71 
Biliary retention, 85 
Biniodide of mercury, aqueous 
solution of, 104, 107 



203 



204 



INDEX 



Biniodide, oily solution of, 104 

Bismuth, sub-nitrate of, 141 

Bizard, 3 

Blaschko, 23 

Blumenthal's statistics of Wasser- 

mann Reaction, 52, 53 
Bones, lesions of muscles and, 146, 

147 

Borne, 197 
Bordet, 52 
Brisac, M., 190 
Broca Hospital, 188, 193 
Brocq, 17, 25, 92, 110, 188 
Brocq's mother plaque, 74 
Buccal mucous membrane, lesions 
of, 80 

spirillse, list of, 51 
Bullous syphilides, 77 
Burns and ulceration, cigarette, 61 
Butter, cacao, 98 
Cacao butter, 98 
Cachets, 92, 93 

mercurial, 95 

protoiodide of mercury, 95 

Renault's formula, 95, 96 
Calomel, 44, 141, 143 

intravenous injections of, 101 

oil, intramuscular injections of, 
102 

ointment, 187 

unsuitability of, 44 
Carbolic acid, concentrated, 44 

gargles, 142 

Cardiac disturbance, 133 
Care in administration of drugs, 146 
Carle, 7, 8, 66 

Carle's statistics, 7, 8, 10, 12, 13 
Carrier of contagion, 21 
Carriers, isolation of syphilitic, 168, 

171, 173 

Cauterisation, 142 
Central pharmacy for Military 

Hospitals tabloids, 95 
Centres, dermato-syphilographic, 
174, 175 

for treating civilians, 188 

inspection in medical, 171 

venereological, 174, 175 

paralysis of cranial, 131 
Cerebro-meningeal symptoms, 83 

spinal lymphocytosis, 78, 84 
Chancre, characteristics of ,35, 36,43 

diagnotic importance of, 43 

dwarf, 38 

effect of, 42 

giant, 38 

incubation period of, 34, 35, 58 

indurated, 38 

infective, 62 

infiltration and tumefaction of, 40 

in rosette, 37 

mixed, 59 

multiple, 40, 57 

of beard, etc., 66 

of lip, 66, 67, 141, 142 

of lip, adenopathy of, 68 

of tonsil, 68, 69, 142 

prostitutes and, 193 

scabous, 37 

simple, 55, 56, 57, 58 
inoculation of, 57 



Chancre, syphilitic, 34 

diagnostic elements of, 43 
differential diagnosis, 55 
evolution of, 41 
novarsenobenzol and, 117 
recurrent, 65 
results of inoculation, 40 
treatment, 140, 141 
unsuitable remedies applied to, 

Chancres, extragenital, 66 

in children, 20 

of the urethra, 141 
Chancrous induration, 60 
Chancriform syphilides, 63 
Characteristics of secondary sy- 
philides, 71 

Chinese ink method, 49 
Chlorate of potash solution, 165 
Choroiditis, 85 

Chronic scrofulous ulcerations, 29 
Cigarette burns and ulceration, 61 
Circulars on precautionary 
measures, 168, 170, 171, 177, 
178, 179, 190 
Cirrhosis, acute, 133 
Civatte, 25 
Civilians and syphilis, 16 18 

centres for treating 188 
Clandestine prostitutes and public 
register 200 

and treatment 192 
Clinic, Tarnier, 27, 28 

table of confinements in, 28 
Clothing, 165 
Cochin hospital, 188 
Codex formula, 101 
Colitis, mercurial, 161, 162 
Complement, fixation of, 52 
Compounds, arsenical, 110 

mercurial, 91 
Compromise of race, 21 
Compressed tabloids, 95 
Confinements in Tarnier Clinic, 28 
Condyloma latum, 80 
Congenital syphilis, retarded, 29 
Contagion in the Army, origin of, 7 

isolation in, 173 

munition works and, 15 
Contamination of children, 20 

depots and, 14 

of women by their husbands, 19 

sedentary services and, 14 

statistics showing source of, 10 
Contaminations, army zone, 12, 13, 
196 

base zone, 13, 14, 197 

non-venereal, 15 

rest zone, 197 

statistics of venereal, 5, 6 
Consultations, Sunday, 188 
Continued treatment, 140, 147, 148, 

149 

Crises, nitritoid, 130, 133 
Cummerbund, 165 
Cure, Fournier's intermittent, 96 
Cutaneous affections, statistics of, 
3, 4 

eruptions and arsenobenzol, 133 

lesions of secondary syphilis, 71, 
118 



INDEX 



205 



Cutaneous affections, pruriginous, 

82 

ulcerative, 22 
Cyanogen, 106 

Cyanide of mercury, 105, 106 
albuminuria and, 162 
injections of, 138, 140 
precautions after, 161, 162 
intravenous injections of, 106, 

108, 109, 142 
dose, 109 
of potassium, 106 
Cyclitis, 85 
Danger, instruction as to venereal, 

180 

syphilis as a national, 16 
Dangers of insoluble injections, 98, 

99, 100 
Danysz, 135 
Deafness, 84, 131 
Deaths from arsenobenzol and 

novarsenobenzol, 130 
Delayed roseola, recurrent or, 72, 73 
Depapillated plaques, 81 
Depots, Army treatment in, 148 

and contamination, 14 
Dermato-syphilographic centres, 

Description of arsenobenzol, 110, 

111, 112, 113 

of novarsenobenzol, 113, 114 
Diagnosis and Wassermann Re- 
action, 52, 53, 54 
of syphilitic chancre, differential, 

of tertiary lesions, 87, 88 
lesions, 34 

syphilitic roseola, 73 
Diagnostic importance of chancre, 

43, 45 

Diarrhoea, 133, 149 
Dichlorhydrate of dioxydiamino- 

arsenobenzol, 110 
Diminution of duration of life, 22 

of effectives, 21 
Difficulties of intravenous injection, 

159 

Dioxydiamido arsenobenzolmono- 
methylene sulphoxylate of so- 
dium, 113 
Disastrous influence of war syphilis, 

30, 31, 32 
Disease, Landry's, 131 

discussions on venereal, 176 
lectures on, 180, 181, 182, 183, 

184, 185 

war and venereal, 1 
Diseases with which mucous 

plaques may be confused, 81 
Disorders, gastro-intestinal, 133 
Dispensaries, 188 
Distilled water, 152 

and novarsenobenzol, 114, 115, 

116 

Disturbance, cardiac, 133 
Donovan's solution, 110 
Dose of novarsenobenzol, 123, 124, 

125, 126 

of protoiodide of mercury, 94 
Dressings, water, 141 
Drinks, 165 



Dropsy, 86 
Drugs, care in giving, 
7 



146 



Ducrey's bacillus, 5 

Dumouthiers, 117 

Dupuytren's pills, 94 

Dwarf chancre, 38 

Ecthyma, 37, 55, 59 

Effect of chancre, 42 

Effects of novarsenobenzol, 117 

Effectives, diminution of, 21 

Ehrlich, 90, 110, 111, 112, 113, 120, 

123, 134, 135, 136 
Embolism, 161 
Encephalitis, acute, 130 
Endermic administration, 98 

mercurial medication, 92 
Energetic treatment, 139 
Epithelioma, 62 

of penis, 55 

Erosive and ulcerous balanitis, 62 
Eruptions and arsenobenzol, cuta- 

neous, 133 
syphilitic, 18 

Erythemas, medicamental, 73 
Evolution of syphilitic chancre, 41 
Examination, Bertarelli's method 

of, 52 

Giemsa's method of, 48, 49 
of patients, precautions in, 38 
Excoriations of genital organs, 60 
Exfoliative erythrodermia, general- 

ised, 133 

glossitis, marginate, 81 
Exostosis, 29 

Experiments on apes, 187 
Extra-genital chancres, 68 
Eye lotion, 145 
Facial paralysis, 84, 144 
nerves, lesions of, 131 
Female labour and syphilitic mor- 

bidity, 17 
Fig. 1, 151 ; Fig. 2, 154 ; Fig. 3, 

155 ; Fig. 4, 157 
Finger, 64 

First stage of injection, 154 
Fixation of complement, 52 
Fluid, antiseptic, 152 
Follicular syphilides, 76, 143 

tuberculide, 77 
Fontana, 49 

Forceps, pressure, 152, 153 
Formula, Renault's, 95, 96 
Formulaire pharmaceutique des hd- 

pitaux militaires, 92, 93, 94, 

101, 102, 104 
Fournier, Alfred, 23, 25, 26, 29, 46, 

55, 63, 78, 189, 193 
Fournier's statistics, 26, 27 
table of tertiary symptoms, 23 
urticarial roseola, 72, 73 
Free prostitution and treatment, 198 
Frequency of syphilis in the 

Army, 1 

Front, army treatment at the, 147 
Furlough, syphilitic patients and, 

1/3, 174 
Galyl, 134, 135 
Gangrene of genital organs, 55, 60, 

61 

Gargles, 142 
Gastralgia, 92 



206 



INDEX 



Gastro-intestinal disorders, 133 

Gaucher, 3, 86 

Gautier, Armand, 110 

General phenomena of secondary 

syphilis, 70 
Generalised exfoliative erythro- 

dermia, 133 
Gengou, 52 
Genital herpes, 55, 56 

organs excoriations of, 60 
Giant chancre, 38 

plaques, 82 
Gibert's Pityriasis rosea, 73, 74 

.syrup, 92, 93 

Giemsa's method of examination, 
48, 49 

solution, 49 
Giroux, 86 
Glass syringe, 150 
Glossitis, marginate exfoliative, 81 
Godart, M. Justin, 4, 33, 190 
Gonorrhoea, increase of, 2 
Gonorrhoea! arthritis, 18 
Govaerts, Mme., 8 
Grave icterus, 86 
Granular roseola, 72 
Grey oil, injections of, 98, 100, 101 
Gumma, 29 
Gummatous iritis, 85 
Haematuria, 146 
Haemolytic icterus, 86 
Hallucinations, auditory, 131 
Headache, 22, 83, 118 

and lumbar puncture, 83 

treatment of, 144 
Hectargyre, 110 
Hectine, 110, 134 
Hemiplegia, 83, 84, 119, 145 
Heredity, maternal, mixed and 

paternal, 26 
Herpes, genital, 55, 56 

Mauriac's neuralgic, 56 

prechancrous, 56 
Herxheimer's Reaction, 118, 133 
Hoechst Chemical Dye Works, 111, 

Hoffmann, 47 

Hospital patients, advice to, 176 
and syphilitics, 171 
munition workers and, 172 
services, additional, 190, 191, 192 
treatment and officers, 172 

Hospitalisation, locality of, 174 

Hospitals, Broca, Cochin and St. 
Louis, 188, 193 

Houses, licensed, 194, 195, 197, 198 

Hydrogen, peroxide of, 44 

Hygiene, advice as to, 164, 165 

Hypertrophied lesions, 82 

Hypochlorite of sodium solution, 
142 

Hudelo and Jeanselme, 188 

Icteri, haemolytic, 86 

Icterus, 133, 145 
gravis, 86 

Inconveniences of intravenous in- 
jections, 107 

Increase of gonorrhoea, 2 
of syphilis, 2 

Incubation period of simple chancre, 
34, 35, 58 



Incubation of syphilis, 70 

second, 70 

Indications for laboratory re- 
searches, 47 

Individual instruction, 176, 177 
Indurated chancre, 38 
Induration, chancrous, 60 

papyraceous, 39 
Infection and pregnancy, maternal, 

26,27 

Vincent's spirillar, 83 
Infective chancre, 62 
Infiltration and tumefaction of 

chancre, 40 
basal, 60 

Influence upon birth-rate, 25, 32 
Ingestion, mercurial medication by, 

92 ' 
Injection, mode of, 153, 154, 155, 

156, 157, 158, 159 
stages of, 151, 154, 155, 157 
Injections, soluble and insoluble, 98, 

99, 100, 102, 103 
of cyanide of mercury, 138, 140 

precautions after, 161, 162 
of grey oil, 98, 100, 101 
of novarsenobenzol, 142, 143 
periodicity of, 126 
precautions after, 162, 163 
vehicle for, 114, 115 
Injury of nerve filament, 160 
Inoculation of simple chancre, 57 

of syphilitic chancre, 40 
Inspection, medical, 2, 169, 170, 171 
Instruction as to venereal danger, 

180 

Instruments, 150 
Insurance statistics, 24 
Intercostal neuralgia, 131 
Intermittent cure, Fournier's, 96 
Intramuscular injections of calomel 

oil, 102 

of mercury, 98, 100 
of novarsenobenzol, 117 
mercurial medication, 92 
Intraparietal penetration, 159 
Intravenous administration, tech- 
nique of, 105, 106 
of mercury, 106, 107 
injections, advantages of, 107 
apparatus for, 151 
difficulties of, 158, 159 
inconveniences of, 107 
of cyanide of mercury, 106, 

108, 109, 142 
dose for, 109 
technique of, 150 
Iodide of potassium, 91, 92 

of sodium, 91 
Iodides, 91, 92 
Iodine, 89, 91 
gargle, 142 
Iodines, 91, 142 
lodo-mercuric cacodylate, 110 
Iritis, 84, 85, 86 
and irido choroiditis, 119 
treatment, 145 

Isolation in contagious syphilis, 173 
of syphilitic carriers, 168, 171, 173 
Italian licensed houses, 198 
Italy and anti- venereal struggle, 186 



INDEX 



207 



Jaundice, 22 

Jeanselme and Hudelo, 188 

and Vernes, 54 
Labarraque's solution, 142 
Landouzy, 16 
Landry's disease, 131 
Landsteiner, 64 
Largin, 49 

Latent spinal meningitis, 132 
Leave and venereal disease, 11 
Lectures on venereal disease, 180, 

181, 182, 183, 184, 185 
Legendre and Bazin, plaques of, 74, 

75 

Lesions, artificially induced, 81 
cutaneous, 71, 118 
pruriginous, 83 
ulcerative, 22 
diagnosis of tertiary, 87, 88 

of syphilitic, 34 
of auditory nerve and labyrinth, 

84 

of lips, 80 

of mucous membranes, 80, 81 
of muscles and bones, 146, 147 
of nails, 80 
of oculo-motor, optic, and facial 

nerves, 131 
of palate, 29 
of pharynx, 82 
of skin, ulcerous, 143 
of spinal nerves, 131 
of tonsils, 82 
optical, 84 
secondary, 117 
ulcerous, 60 

Letulle and Bergeron, 22 
Leucoplakia, 81, 82, 88 
Licensed houses, 194, 195, 197, 198 
Italian, 198 
Japanese, 198 
Lichen scrofulosum, 77 
syphilitic, 76 
Wilson's, 76, 82 
Lichenoid syphilides, 76, 143 
Lipothymia, 133 
Lips, chancre of, 66, 67, 141, 142 

adenopathy of, 68 
Liquor, van Swieten's, 92 
List of buccal spirillae, 51 
Liver, yellow atrophy of, 133 
Locality of hospitalisation, 174 
Local treatment, 142 
Lotion, 145 
Lceffler's bacillus, 70 
Luargol, 135, 136 
Lumbar puncture, 131, 132 
Lymphitis, 42 
Lymphocytosis, 131 

cerebro-spinal, 78, 84 
Macular roseola, 72 
Malignant syphilides, 143 

syphilis, 77 
Malvy, M., 190 
Manchurian War, 198 
Manifestations, visceral, 144 
Married women and syphilis, 18, 19 
Maternal heredity, 26 

infection and pregnancy, 26, 27 
Mauriac, 2 
Mauriac's neuralgic herpes, 56 



Medical inspection, 169, 170 

and munition works, 2 

of mobilised workmen, 170, 171 
Medicamental erythemas, 73 
Medicine, Academy of, 33, 196, 198 
Meister, Lucius and Bruning, 111, 

Men, frequency of syphilis in young, 

20 

Meningitis, basal, 84 
basilar, 131 
spinal, 84 
treatment, 145 
Meningp-myelitis, 84 
Mercurial cachets, 95 
colitis, 161, 162 
compounds, 91 
inunction, 98 
iodides, 91 

medication, endermic, 92 
by ingestion, 92 
intramuscular and intravenous, 

92, 98, 100, 106, 107 
per rectum, 92, 97 
stomatitis, 81 
syrups, 92 
Mercury, 89, 91 

and arsenobenzol, 132, 133 
and arsenic, association of, 136, 

137. 138, 140, 141 
Metchnikofl, 187 
Method, Chinese ink, 49 

of examination, Bertarelli's, 52 

Giemsa's, 48, 49 
ultra-microscope, 49, 50 
Methylene blue, 143 
Millard, 84 
Mi Man, 130 

Miliary syphilides, 76, 143 
Mixed chancre, 59 

heredity, 26 
Mode of injection, 153, 154, 155, 

156, 157, 158, 159 
Morbidity, venereal, 1 
Mortality, syphilitic, 23, 24 
Mouneyrat, 110, 134 
Mouth washes, 165 
Mucous membranes, lesions of 80, 
plaques, 18, 62, 63, 80, 81, 117 

118 
diseases with which they may 

be confused, 81 
Multiple chancres, 40 
Munition workers and hospital 

treatment, 172 
and supervision, 179 
and syphilis, 2, 20, 21 
treatment of, 148 
works and contagion, 15 
Muscles and bones, lesions of, 146, 

147 

Nails, lesions of, 80 
National peril, 32 
Needle, 151, 153 

steel, 151 
Neosalvarsan, 113 
Nephritis, 86, 146 
Nerve, affection of auditory, 131 

filament, injury of, 160 
Nervous affections, 83 
Neuralgia, intercostal, 131 



208 



INDEX 



Neuritis, optic, 85, 131 
Neuro-relapses, 131, 132 
Neuro-retinitis, 131 
Neurotropism of arsenobenzol, 132 
Neutral salicylate of mercury, 105 
Nicolas, J., 37 

Nicolle's method of staining, 57 
Nitrate of silver, 44, 142, 143 
Nitritoid crises, 130, 133 
No. " 102," 135 ; No. " 606," 111, 
135 ; No. " 914," 113 ; No. 
"1116," 134 

Non- venereal contaminations, 15 
Novarsenobenzol, 113, 136, 140 

and nervous system, 130 

deaths from, 130 

description of, 113, 114 

distilled water and, 114, 115, 116 

dose of, 123, 124, 125, 126 

effects of, 117 

injections, 140, 142, 143 

after effects of, 126, 127, 128 
intramuscular, 117 
periodicity of, 126 
vehicle for, 114, 115 

serious accidents of, 128, 129 

solution, 152, 153 
Noxious influence of syphilis, 26, 27 
Oculomotor optic and facial nerves, 

lesions of, 131 

Oily solution of biniodide of mer- 
cury, 104 

Ointment, calomel, 187 
Operative accidents, 159 
Optical lesions, 84 
Optic neuritis, 85, 131 
Organs, excoriations of genital, 60 

gangrene of, 55, 60, 61 
Origin of contagion in the Army, 7 
Oxycyanide of mercury, 105 
Palate, lesion of, 29 
Palmar psoriasis, 75 
Palpitations, 133 
Pamphlets for troops, 185 
Papular syphilides, 74 

with large papules, 75, 76 

with small papules, 76, 143 
Papulo-squamous syphilides, 76 
Papyraceous induration, 39 
Paralysis, facial, 84, 144 

of cranial centres, 131 

of oculo-motor nerves, 84 
Parasite of syphilis, research for, 

47, 48 

Paternal heredity, 26 
Patient's antecedents and secondary 

syphilis, 45 
Pautrier, 6, 32 
Pautrier's Report, 32 
Penetration, intraparietal, 159 
Penis, epithelioma of, 55 
Period, secondary, 70 
Periodicity of injections of novarse- 

nobenzol, 126 
Perionyxis, 80 
Periungual syphilides, 80 
Perivenous cellular tissue, penetra- 
tion of fluid into, 160 
Permanganate of potash, 44 
Peroxide of hydrogen, 44 
Personal precautions, 186, 187 



Pharmaceutical Formulary for 

Military Hospitals, 97 
Pharynx, lesions of, 82 
Phlebitis, 86 
Photophobia, 85 
Physiological serum, 142 

and novarsenobenzol, 116 
Pigmentary syphilide, 77, 78 
Pill, soft, 94 
Pills, 92, 93 

Dupuytren's, 94 
Ricord's, 94 
sublimate, 94, 95 
Pityriasis rosea, Gibert's, 73, 74 
Plaques, depapillated, 81 
giant, 82 
mucous, 18, 62, 63, 80, 81, 117, 

118 

of Bazin and Legendre, 74, 75 
Police supervision, 197 
Polyclinics, 188, 189 
Polyneuritis, 131 

Post-hospital treatment and super- 
vision, 177, 178 

Precautionary measures and sy- 
philis, 168 
circulars on, 168, 170, 171, 177, 

178, 179, 190 

Precautions after cyanide of mer- 
cury injections, 161, 162 
after novarsenobenzol injections, 

162, 163 

in examination of patients, 38 
Prechancrous herpes, 56 
Pregnancy, maternal infection and, 

26, 27 

Preparations, arsenical, 134 
Pressure forceps, 152, 153 
Prophylaxis, 167 

by treatment, 189, 193 
Prostitutes and chancre, 193 
and treatment, 192, 193, 194 
clandestine, and public register, 

200 
registered, and supervision, 199, 

200, 201 

Prostitution and treatment, clan- 
destine, 192 
free, 198 

supervision of, 192, 193, 194, 195 
Protoiodide of mercury cachets, 95 
Pruriginous cutaneous lesions, 82 
Pseudo-chancre and arsenobenzol, 

64,65 

Puncture, lumbar, 131, 132 
Pustular syphilides, 77 
Queyrat, 41 

Race, compromise of, 21 
Ravaut, 49, 76, 78, 84, 115, 126, 132, 

137 

and Schlikevitch, 138 
Reaction, Herxheimer's, 118, 133 
Wassermann, 22, 27, 52, 53, 54, 
61, 63, 65, 70, 71, 79, 88, 120 
and diagnosis, 52, 53, 54 
Receptacle, 152, 153 
Rectum, mercurial medication per, 

92, 97 

Recurrent syphilitic chancre, 65 
Registered prostitutes and super- 
vision, 198, 199, 200, 201 



INDEX 



209 



Relations, sexual, 165, 166 

Renault. Alex, 95 

Renault s Formula, 95, 96 

Report, Pautrier's, 32 

Research for parasite of syphilis, 
47,48 

Researches, laboratory, indications 
for, 47 

Rest zone contaminations, 196 

Retarded congenital syphilis, 29 

Retention, biliary, 85 

Retinitis, 85, 131 

Ricord, 42, 46, 55 

Ricord's pills, 94 

Ristitch, Dr., 61 

Rollet, 58, 59 

Roseola, 19, 71, 72, 137 

Alfred Fournier's urticarial, 72 
granular, macular, and papular, 

72 
recurrent or delayed, 72, 73 

Rousseau, 4 

Routine treatment, 139 

Rubber attachment and tube, 152 

Rubbings, 92 

Salicylarsenate of mercury, 110 

Salicylate of mercury, 101 

Salivation, 149 

Salol, 165 

Salvarsan, 111, 136 

Satellite adenopathy, 42 

Scabies, 55, 59, 60 

Scabous chancre, 37 

Schaudinn, 47 

Scheme for treatment in the Army, 
139 

Schlikevitch and Ravaut, 138 

Second incubation, 70 

Secondary and tertiary syphilides, 

disturbances and treatment, 141 

lesions, 117 

period, 70 

syphilis, 70 

entary services and contamina- 
tion, 14 

Sensory affections and arsenoben- 
zol, 84 

organs and secondary syphilis, 84 
Serum and arsenobenzol, physio- 

logical, 116, 142 
Sexual relations, 165, 166 
Silver staining, 49 
Simon, Clement, 152, 200 
Simple chancre, 55, 56, 57, 58 

inoculation of, 57 
Simulation, ulcerations induced for, 

55 

Skin, ulcerous lesions of the, 143 
Soap as antiseptic, 187 

wash, 165 

Social consequences of syphilis, 21 
Soft pill, 94 
Soluble and insoluble injections, 92, 

102, 103 
Solution, Donovan's, 100 

hypochlorite of sodium, 1 42 

Giemsa's, 49 

Labarraque's, 142 

novarsenobenzol, 152, 153 

of benzoate of mercury, 104 

14 



sy 
Sede 



Solutions, 92 

Sore throat, 19 

Special conditions of treatment in 

the Army, 89, 90, 91 
Spick, 1 

Spillmann, L., 13, 19 
Spinal meningitis, latent, 132 

nerves, lesions of, 131 
Spirillar injection, Vincent's, 83 
Spirillum dentium, 51 

Vincent's, 51 
Spirochssla buccalis, 51 

refringens, 50, 51 
St. Louis' Hospital, 188, 193 

statistics, 8, 10 
Staining, Nicolle's method of, 59 

silver, 49 
Statistics, Audry and insurance, 24 

Blumenthal's, 52, 53 

Carle's, 7, 8, 10, 12, 13 

Fournier's, 26, 27 

of cutaneous and venereal affec- 
tions, 3, 4 

showing source of contamination, 

St. Louis' Hospital, 8, 10 

Tzanck's, 11 
Steel needle, 151 
Stibico-argentic sulphate of dioxy- 

diamino-arsenobenzol, 135 
Stomatitis, 149, 165 

mercurial, 81 
Sublimate, 44 

pills, 94, 95 

Subnitrate of bismuth, 141 
Sulphur baths, 143 
Sunday consultations, 188 
Supervision and munition workers, 
179 

and post-hospital treatment, 177, 

of prostitution, 192, 193, 194, 195 
registered prostitutes and, 198, 

199, 200, 201 
Suppositories, 92, 97 

Audry's, 97, 98 
Suppression of tobacco, 164 
Syphilide, acneiform, 76, 143 



pigmentary, 77, 78 
^philid 



Syphilides, acneiform, lichenoid and 

miliary, 76, 143 
bullous, pustular and ulcerative, 

77 

chancriform, 63 
characteristics of secondary, 71 
follicular, 76, 143 
malignant, 143 
papular, 74 

with large papules, 75, 7H 

with small papules, 76, 143 
papulo-squamous, 76 
periungual, 80 
secondary and tertiary, 55 
Syphilis, a national danger, 16 
and precautionary measures, 167, 

168, 180 

cerebro-meningeal, 83 
civilians and, 16, 18 
disastrous influence of war, 30, 

31, 32 
in the Army, frequency of , 1 , 2, 20 



210 



INDEX 



Syphilfs, incubation period of, 45 
isolation in contagious, 173 
malignant, 77 
married women and, 18, 19 
munition workers and, 2, 20, 21 
noxious influence of, 26, 27 
retarded congenital, 29 
secondary, 70 

and patient's antecedents, 45 
tertiary, 86, 87 
workmen's accidents and, 23 
wounds and, 22 
Syphilitic acne, 76 
alopecia, 79, 80 

carriers, isolation of, 168, 171, 173 
chancre, 34 

differential diagnosis of, 55 

evolution o,f 41 

inoculation of, 40 
eruptions, 18 
lesions, diagnosis of, 34 
morbidity and female labour, 17 
mortality, 23, 24 
patients and furlough, 173, 174 
roseola, diagnosis of, 73 
treatment, active, 173 



Syringe, glass, 150 
Syrup, Gibert's, 



OQ QO 

Syrups, mercurial, *92 

Table of confinements in Tarnier 

Clinic, 28 
of tertiary symptoms, Fournier's, 

Tabloids, 92, 93 

compressed, 95 

of Central Pharmacy for Military 

Hospitals, 95 
Tarnier Clinic. 27, 28 
Technique of intramuscular in- 
jections, 105, 106 

of intravenous injections, 150 
Tertiary lesions, diagnosis of, 87, 88 

syphilides, 55 

ulcerations, 63 
Testicular atrophy, 29 
Tetraoxydiphosphaminodiarseno- 

benzene, 134 
Throat, sore, 19 
Thrush, 81 

Tincture of iodine, 91 
Tinnitus, 84, 131 
Tobacco, suppression of, 164 
Tonsil, chancre of, 68, 69, 142 
Tonsils, lesions of, 82 
Tourniquet, 152, 153 
Traumatic ulcerations, 55 
Treatment, ambulatory, 188 

attacking, 108 

Army, 147, 148 

by attack and barrage, 139 

clandestine prostitution and, 192 

continued, 140, 147, 148, 149 

energetic, 139 

free prostitution and, 198 

local, 142 

of munition workers, 168 

prostitutes and, 192, 193, 194 

routine, 139 

secondary disturbances and, 141 



Treatment, ulcerations due to ar- 
senical, 55 

Wassermann Reaction and, 149 
Treponema pallidum, 47, 50, 51 
Troops and pamphlets, 158 
Tube, rubber, 152 
Tuberculosis, 16 

follicular, 77 

Tumefaction of chancre, 40 
Ulceration, cigarette burns and, 61 
Ulcerations, chronic scrofulous, 29 

due to arsenical treatment, 53 

induced for simulation, 55 

tertiary, 63 

traumatic, 55 
Ulcerative syphilides, 77 
Ulcerous balanitis, 62 

lesions, 60 

of the skin, 143 

Ultra-microscope, method of, 49, 50 
Unicity of chancre, 40 
Unsuitable remedies, 43, 44 
Unsuitability of calomel, 44 
Uraemia, 86 

Urethra, chancres of, 141 
Vaillard, General, 33, 190 
Van Swieten's Liquor, 92 
Vehicle for injections of novarseno- 

benzol, 114, 115 

Venereal contaminations, statistics 
of, 5, 6 

danger, instructions as to, 180 

disease, discussions on, 176 

leave and, 11 

lectures on, 180, 181, 182, 183, 
184,185 

morbidity, 1 

war and, 1 

Venereological centres, 174, 175 
Vernes and Jeanselme, researches 

of, 54 

Vertigo, 84, 131 
Vincent's angina, 69, 82 

spirillar infection, 83 

spirillum, 51 
Visceral affections, 83 

manifestations, 144 
Vomiting, 131 
War, Manchurian, 198 

syphilis, disastrous influence of, 

30, 31, 32 
Wash, soap, 163 
Washes, mouth, 165 
Wassermann Reaction, 22, 27, 52, 
53, 54, 61, 63, 65, 70, 71, 79, 
88, 120 

and diagnosis, 52, 53, 54 

Blumenthal's statistics of, 52, 53 

treatment and, 149 
Water, distilled, 152 

dressings, 141 
Wilson's lichen, 76, 82 
Women, contamination by their 

husbands, 19 
Wool, absorbent, 152 
Yellow oxide of mercury, 101 
Zones, contaminations of Army, 
base and rest, 12, 13, 14, 196, 
197 



Printed in Great Britain by Hazell, Watson & Viney, Ld., 
London and Aylesbury. 



o 

LQ 



ctf 
0) 

CO -P 
0) 



O cti 

(D 



Q) -H 
bOXl 
fn D< 



University of Toronto 
Library 




Acme Library Card Pocket 

Under Pat. "Ref. Index File" 
Made by LIBRARY BUREAU 



