



1 


1 





Digitized by the Internet Archive 

in 2007 with funding from 

IVIicrosoft Corporation 



http://www.archive.org/details/economyinfoodOOwellrich 



ECONOMY IN FOOD 



ECONOMY IN FOOD 



BY 



MABEL THACHER WELLMAN 

ASSOCIATE PROFESSOR AND HEAD OF DEPARTMENT OF HOME 
ECONOMICS IN INDIANA UNIVERSITY ; FORMERLY 
ASSISTANT PROFESSOR OF DOMESTIC ECON- 
OMY IN LEWIS INSTITUTE, CHICAGO 

AUTHOR OF "FOOD STUDY '% A TEXTBOOK IN HOME ECONOMICS 




BOSTON 

LITTLE, BROWN, AND COMPANY 

1918 



A 



^^' 



Copyright, 1918, 
By Little, Brown, and Company 



All rights reserved 



ECONOMY IN FOOD 



The war is making us realize as never before how wasteful we have 
been in our use of food materials. Here are some of the points 
that we have found need of emphasizing. 

A. ECONOMY IN BUYING 

I. Cost and Food Value. 

Examination of the Table of the Cost of One-hundred Calorie 
Portions of foods shows at once that it is possible to pay widely 
varying prices for amounts of food having the same fuel value. It 
is entirely possible, then, to take this into account in selecting food. 

Meat, for example, is costly, as is most protein food. The United 
States Food Administration tells us that we eat, as a nation, 80 
per cent more protein than we need. It is true that, except for 
Australia, we have a larger per capita consumption of meat than 
any other people.^ It also tells us that too much protein is not 
only unnecessary but probably distinctly injurious. Here is one 
point to remember. Do not spend money foolishly in buying 
protein it is unwise for us to have. For suggestions in cutting 
down the use of meat, see the topic, " Economy in Planning 
Meals ", on page 10. 

Again, many vegetables and fruits are high in price compared 
to their actual fuel value. Consider, then, how much they are 
actually needed, and select as far as possible those which are less 
costly and supply the same elements. Include either a vegetable 
or a fruit in each meal, but not necessarily both. 

Remember, however, that a certain amount of protein ^ and 
mineral salts,^ as well as vitamines/ are absolutely essential to 
health, and that to buy food solely from the standpoint of cost 

1 See Wellman's " Food Study", pp. 181, 187. 

2 See Wellman : '' Food Study ", pp. 155, 186, and 298. 

3 See Wellman : '' Food Study", pp. 65-66 and 298-299. 
* See WeUman : " Food Study", p. 157. 

1 



3820SS 



2 KCONC/ilt :iN FOOD 

would be a 'f at^' imi.^take, P-emember that, while the amount of 
these necessary substances required* is not very great, the need for 
them is absolute. 

Do not forget that whole milk is very necessary for children,^ 
if they are to grow and develop properly, and that a liberal amount 
should be included in their diet. 

II. Marketing. 

Go to the market and grocery yourself, if possible, especially for 
perishable goods. But first look over your ice-box and supplies, and 
have a general plan in mind. Be prepared to change it if market 
conditions make it desirable to do so. 

III. Amount to Buy. 

A. Ask for definite amounts by weight or measure. A bag, 
bottle, pail or bucket, jar, basket, or " five cents* worth ", are all in- 
definite terms. Make your butcher give you price per pound and 
weight of meat bought. Buy package goods which are clearly 
marked with the quantity they contain. 

B. Buy only in quantities that you can use before deterioration. 
Buy, however, in as large quantities as you can plan to use without 
monotony, especially where by so doing you save a few cents or 
even a fraction of a cent; but it is not economy to buy an extra 
amount and have some to throw away. Non-perishable goods 
are cheaper bought in quantity. Note the net weight of package 
goods in relation to cost. A larger package is often much better 
value than a smaller. 

IV. Buy Seasonable Food. 

Some people use canned goods when they can buy fresh foods 
actually at less cost. Others buy hot-house products out of season. 

V. Food Sold in Bulk instead of in package form is usually 
cheaper. If the food is to be reheated it is economy to buy it in 
the cheaper form. If it cannot be sterilized or properly cleaned by 
washing, it is true economy to buy the package form. 

VI. Cooked Foods bought at delicatessen stores, etc., are usually 
expensive, as both fuel and labor are included in the price. 

VII. Checking up Quantities Bought. 

Housewives should see that tliey get the amount of material paid 
for. It is necessary to have a pair of scales and weigh often enough 
to be sure that your dealer is not sending you short weight. If he 
is careless and gives you now too little, now too much, tell him 

1 See Wellman : *' Food Study/^ pp. 275 and 278. 



ECONOMY IN BUYING 3 

you prefer to deal with some one who is more accurate. Don't be 
afraid of your store man. 

If you buy by measure there are definite weights you should 
receive. You can obtain a table showing the weight of a bushel 
of various food commodities by applying to your State department 
of weights and measures. Divide those weights by 4, to find the 
weight of a peck. If the housewife prefers, she can keep standard 
measures and measure such goods as are not sold by weight. Re- 
member that the liquid pint and quart are smaller than the cor- 
responding dry measures. 

VIII. Specific Suggestions in Buying. 

1. Meats. 

Learn the cuts of meat,^ the price paid per pound, and also the 
price per pound of edible meat. Apparent cheapness is often 
deceiving. Cheaper cuts are often more nutritious than more ex- 
pensive ones. 

Here are some figures given in Bulletin 158, University of Illi- 
nois Agricultural Experiment Station, 1912. While the present 
prices are not the same, nevertheless the figures show relative values. 



Beef 



Steaks : 

Porterhouse .... 

Club or short . . . 

Sirloin 

Flank 

Round 

Chuck 

Roasts : 

Prime rib, 1st cut . . 

Prime rib, last cut . . 

Chuck 

Rump 

Boiling and stewing prices 

Round, pot roast . . 

Shoulder, pot roast 

Brisket 

Vane 

Flank, stew .... 

Fore shank, stew . . 

Neck 



Retail Price 


Cost of Edible 


Per Pound 


Meat Per Pound 


25 


27.2-28.9 


20 


22.6 


20 


20.6-24.2 


16 


16 


15 


15.3-16.0 


12 


13.1-14.1 


20 


22.9 


16 


18.8 


15 


17.3 


12 


12.8 


10 


10.1 


10 


11.6 


8 


8.7 


7 


7.7 


7 


7.1 


7 


7.0 


6 


7.0 



1 See Wellman's "Food Study", pp. 171 and 176-179. 



4 ECONOMY IN FOOD 

2. Eggs. 

Many people are prejudiced against cold-storage eggs.^ At 
certain times of the year it is necessary to use them in order to 
have a sufficient egg-supply. While their flavor may not be so 
delicate for eating, they are good food, and at such seasons should 
be preferred for use in cooking, for they are much less expensive. 

3. Milk. 

Sour milk is valuable for making cottage cheese, or in baking, 
and should never be thrown away. Use it before it molds. 

Skimmed milk and buttermilk, if they can be bought, cost less 
than whole milk. However, children need whole milk to drink, 
for they need the fat in the milk which contains a vitamine neces- 
sary to growth. 

Canned milk keeps well and is sometimes cheaper for a small 
family. 

Milk powder may also be used in cooking. It is made from 
skimmed milk. 

Money spent for milk ^ gives a good return, for milk contains 
all the food principles as well as valuable mineral salts and 
vit amines. 

4. Tea, Coffee, and Cocoa. 

Tea and coffee have no fuel value except for the milk, cream or 
sugar added. Do not serve them oftener than necessary, and never 
to children. Black tea is probably less harmful than green. Coffee 
and tea bought in bulk are less expensive than in a carton or can. 

Cocoa is cheaper bought in bulk than in tin. Unsweetened 
cocoa is better value than cocoa containing much sugar. 

5. Sugar. 

Sugar often sells for a certain number of cents and a fraction of 
a cent. It is economy to buy a number of pounds which will make 
the cost an even number of cents. 

6. Cereals. 

Flour usually costs the same in twenty-five pound sacks as by 
the barrel. Bought in ten-pound packages or less, the price is 
higher. 

Bulk cereals, macaroni, and spaghetti, are less expensive than the 
package goods. Broken rice is as nutritious as whole rice, and 
less expensive. 

1 See Wellman's " Food Study", p. 48. 

2 See Wellman's '' Food Study^', p. 275. 



ECONOMY IN BUYING 5 

Ready-to-eat cereals are more expensive than those which have 
not been cooked. If fuel must be burned merely to cook the cereal, 
that is another matter. However, a fireless cooker will solve that 
difficulty. 

Home-made bread, if the baking or making is not included, is 
cheaper than baker's bread. Weight for weight, they are about 
equally nutritious. 

7. Yeast. 

Dried yeast is much cheaper than compressed. Liquid yeast 
is still less expensive ; see p. 26. 

8. Fats. 

Butter is an expensive form of fat. Substitute other fats for it 
whenever possible. Keep all meat fats (ask the butcher to send 
home the trimmings) and try them out. This may readily be done 
by chopping them fine, putting them through a meat-grinder 
and heating them over water. When the fat has melted, pour it 
off. Strong fats may be made less strong by heating with a little 
milk, about a cup to a pound. Sour milk may be used. Strong 
fats may be flavored with onions, apples, bay leaves, sage, thyme, 
etc. 

Butter can be made to go farther by churning it with milk. Put 
the butter into the milk, allowing a pint of milk and about one- 
half a teaspoonful of salt for a pound of butter. 

Place the churn containing the milk in a pan of rather warm water, 
not too hot. Add the salt and the butter cut in thin slices. When 
the butter is thoroughly soft (but not melted), remove the churn 
from the warm water and beat until the butter has absorbed the 
milk. This should take only two or three minutes. Then place the 
churn in a pan of cold water and beat a minute or two longer. To 
mold the butter, pack it in a cake-pan lined with buttered paper 
and put it in a cold place to harden. 

The butter should double in bulk. However, as a family tends 
to use rather more of this mixture than of the butter alone, it does 
not save half of the butter. Of course, the food value is not the 
same. 

9. Vegetables and Fruits. 

Fresh vegetables ^ and fruits should be bought in small quantities 
only ; otherwise there is much waste from spoilage. 

1 See Wellman's *' Food Study ", p. 147. 



ECONOMY IN FOOD 



B. ECONOMY IN STORING FOOD 

Keep food in a cool cellar or in a refrigerator to avoid dust. Do 
not allow it to stand around in the dining-room or kitchen. 

1. Meat. 

Meat requires constant care as it spoils easily. It should be 
kept in a cool place, and not left wrapped in paper. If it is placed 
directly on the ice, much juice is lost. 

Meat in danger of spoiling can be kept longer if it is even partially 
cooked; or it may be saved by canning,^ smoking or salting. In 
many cold climates meat may be preserved by freezing. 

Cooked meat keeps rather better than its gravy; therefore it 
is best, especially in warm weather, not to put it away in the gravy. 

2. Eggs. 

Eggs should not be washed until they are about to be used, be- 
cause the natural mucilaginous substances in the outside of the 
shell help to preserve them. They should not be kept with strong- 
smelling foods because they absorb odors. 

To keep the yolk of an opened egg^ cover it with cold water. To 
keep the white, cover closely and put in the ice-box. 

Eggs, when cheap, should be " put down " in water glass ^ to 
preserve them for future use. One gallon of water glass will make 
enough solution to cover fifty dozen eggs. Boil and cool the water 
used before mixing. Scald the jars used in storing, and cover 
them tightly. Keep in a cool place. The eggs selected should be 
clean and fresh, but they should not be washed. 

3. Milk. 

Milk will readily absorb odors and should be kept away from 
other foods. 

The souring of milk can be delayed by heating, and cooling 
rapidly. Milk may be pasteurized by placing it in the capped bottle 
on a rack in a kettle full of cold water deep enough to surround the 
milk entirely. Heat until the water is 140° F., and keep it at this 

^ Use cold-pack method. See p. 10, Wellman's " Food Study." 
Omit cold and hot dip. Allow J tsp. salt to each pint. Do not add 
water. Sterilize 4-5 hours after water begins to boil, if raw meat is 
used. Or meat may be cooked and stock used to fill up jar. Steri- 
lize three hours. Examine carefully before using canned meats, and 
discard if there is any sign of the materials having spoiled. 

2 See WeUman's " Food Study ", p. 49. 



ECONOMY IN STORING FOOD 7 

temperature for twenty minutes. Remove the bottle, cool 
quickly, and put in cold water. 

Milk may be kept cool by wrapping it completely in a wet cloth 
and letting it stand in a draft. The cloth must be kept wet. 

4. Coffee and Tea. 

Both coffee and tea retain their flavor better if packed in tightly- 
covered cans or jars rather than in paper bags. 

Coffee bought unground in reasonably small amounts keeps 
satisfactorily. Only a little of it should be ground at a time. 

5. Sugar. 

Sugar keeps well. Molasses and syrups will ferment if kept in 
too warm a place. 

6. Cereals. 

Cereals and flour keep well except in warm weather, when there 
is danger of weevils developing. Buy them in smaller quantities 
during the summer. 

7. Fats. 

To keep fats, store them in a cool place, away from light and air. 
Stone crocks or tin cans are good containers. 

Meat fats should be rendered before storing because they keep 
better than the animal tissue. 

Butter that must be kept a long time should be melted slowly 
until it ceases to sputter and the fat separates from sediment and 
scum. If used in this form its flavor is not so good, but it keeps 
much better. It may later be churned with fresh milk before using. 

Butter that is strong can be re-worked or washed in cold water, 
or it can be melted with a little soda (J tsp. of soda to the pound). 
Churning with milk, so as to double the volume, also improves the 
flavor of poor butter. See p. 5. 

8. Vegetables and Fruits. 

Vegetables or fruits, in danger of spoiling, should be cooked. 
Corn, peas, and other vegetables which lose their sweetness on 
standing, should be cooked at once. They can be reheated in a 
double boiler, and are much better then than when cooked after 
standing. 

Celery, lettuce, cucumbers, radishes, etc., should be kept wrapped 
wet in paper, or put in tightly-covered jars in a cool place. 



8 



ECONOMY IN FOOD 



Many winter vegetables can be kept in a cool cellar, buried in 
sand. 

To prevent lemons from drying, keep immersed in cold water. 

Vegetables and fruits may be canned for later use. This may 
be carried out by any of the three following methods : 

1. Open-kettle Method. 

For process, see Wellman's " Food Study'*, p. 7. This method 
is quicker than the second, but must be carefully carried out or the 
materials will spoil. It must be used for making preserves, jellies, 
etc., which require long cooking and condensing. Vegetables 
canned by this method must be cooked until tender in salted water. 
It is fairly satisfactory for acid vegetables. 

2. Hot-water Bath Method. 

For this process, see Wellman's " Food Study ", p. 8. If vege- 
tables are being canned, blanching (or scalding) in hot water first 
is necessary to clean, soften skins, or shrink material. The length 
of time depends upon the vegetables used (see time of sterilization 
below). They are next plunged in cold water. This is supposed 
to set the color. One tsp. salt to 1 quart jar is allowed ; the jar 
is packed tightly and filled up with water. The time of steriliza- 
tion varies with the fruit or vegetable. Intermittent sterilization is 
safer than a single long period. 

Such goods should be emptied from the jar and reheated before 
using. Discard if they appear to be spoiled. 

3. Pressure-cooker Method. 

This is the same as the hot-water method except that a pressure 
cooker is used instead of the water bath. It saves time and fire, 
but the pressure cooker is expensive. 





Time of Sterilization 




Hot-water Bath 
Method 


Five Pounds Steam 
Pressure Method 


Fruits 

1. Berries 

2. Larger fruits . . . 
Vegetables 

1. Acid 

2. Non-acid .... 


20-30 minutes 
30-60 minutes 

20-30 minutes 
1^4 minutes 


8-10 minutes 
10-20 minutes 

10-15 minutes 
40-90 minutes 



ECONOMY IN STORING FOOD 9 

4. Cold-water Method. 

This appUes only to very acid fruits, such as cranberries, rhubarb, 
tomatoes, etc. The washed fruit is packed tightly in a jar, which 
is then put under a faucet and the cold water is allowed to run in 
for a few minutes. The jar should be inmiersed in water while it 
is sealed, to exclude all air. 

JARS OR CANS 

In any of these methods tin cans may be used in place of glass 
jars without, danger if the contents are emptied as soon as the cans 
are opened. The first cost of the tins is less, but since glass jars 
can be re-used an unlimited number of times, the glass is really 
more economical. Of course, tin cans are more easily shipped 
than glass jars, and so are more often used commercially. 

DRYING 

Fruits and vegetables may also be preserved by drying. They 
should be absolutely fresh, young and clean, to give satisfactory 
results. After washing, put vegetables into a wire basket or cheese- 
cloth bag and plunge into boiling water ; drain, and dry with a 
towel as well as possible. Spread in a thin layer ; stir or turn several 
times during the drying. If heat is used, be careful not to scorch. 
Begin drying at 110° F., increased gradually to 145° F. If an oven 
is used, have the door open. Open trays made of wire are ex- 
cellent for this use. They should be protected by cheesecloth or 
paper, if acid fruits are dried. 

Dried fruits and vegetables should be carefully stored. Paper 
bags with necks twisted and tied with string make good containers. 
They should be brushed over with melted paraffin. Air-tight tins 
or buckets are more easily used. 

Dried fruits and vegetables should be soaked in cold water before 
cooking. 

SALTING 

Greens, like spinach, kale, dandelions, beet greens, and string 
beans, as well as corn, may be preserved by salting. Use fine salt, 
one-third to one-fourth the weight of the vegetables. Pack in a 
clean bag or stone crock in layers about 1 inch thick, sprinkling 
each layer heavily with salt. Cover with a clean cloth and use a 
cover or a board on the top. Freshen before use. Corn preserved 



10 ECONOMY IN FOOD 

in this way should be cooked on the cob and cut off before packing. 
It has a finer flavor than canned corn. 

Salted vegetables should be freshened by soaking in water before 
cooking. 

C. ECONOMY IN SERVING FOOD 

In general it is more economical to pass food at table and let 
people serve themselves to what they want. Make children under- 
stand that they may have more later if they desire it, but that all 
they take must be eaten. It is perhaps better to serve sugar than to 
pass it, if leaving sugar in the bottom of cups is to be avoided. 

It is economy to cut bread only as needed. The loaf on the table 
is an old-fashioned custom, worthy of preservation. 

D. ECONOMY IN PLANNING MEALS i 

Dr. Langworthy has made the suggestion that a well-balanced 

meal should include one food representing each of the following 

groups : 

Group I. Foods rich in Protein. Dried beans, peas, eggs, nuts, 
meat, poultry, oysters, fish, milk, cheese, bread. 

Group II. Foods rich in Starch. Cereals, potatoes, tapioca, maca- 
roni, crackers, bread. 

Group III. Foods rich in Sugar. Sweet cakes and desserts, honey, 
molasses, syrups, jellies, dried fruits, grapes, candy. 

Group IV. Foods rich in Fat. Butter, oleomargarine ; nut butter, 
cream, chocolate, nuts, olive and cotton-seed oils, lard, salt 
pork, suet and other cooking fats, rich cake and cookies. 

Group V. Foods rich in Regulators. Mineral salts and acids. 
Fruits, vegetables, salads, milk. 

PROTEINS IN THE DIET 

Protein in the form of meat is expensive, so it is wise to know 
just how far from necessary it is. 

Mistaken Notion of Value of Meat in the Diet. 

Most people regard meat as an indispensable article of diet. 
They think that meat is necessary to make people strong and well. 
We read of the vigor of the old English yeomanry and how their 
sturdiness was due to the beef and ale of England. We have surely 
dropped the notion of ale or beer as strengthening, so we believe 

1 See WeUman's " Food Study ", pp. 293-296. 



ECONOMY IN PLANNING MEALS 11 

perhaps more firmly than ever in the meat. But any one who 
studies the real conditions of English life during the Middle Ages, 
knows that the poorer classes were fortunate if they had meat once 
a week. Doctors and others who are experimenting on the subject 
say that many of the ills which were formerly believed to be due to 
insuflScient protein in the diet, were really due to lack of mineral 
salts and vitamines. 

Vegetarian Notions. 

Scientists are ready to admit that the vegetarians are right to 
this extent, we can live and thrive without meat. However, to do 
so means most careful planning to include sufiicient proteins in the 
diet, and as meat is admittedly a source of easily-digested protein 
we probably do well to use it in moderate amounts. 

How Much Meat Do We Need? 

A meat meal once a day is enough for a man at hard manual labor. 
It is a maximum amount for an ordinary adult or business man. 
The ordinary adult will not be at all harmed by omitting meat for 
several days a week, even if no special " protein " meat substitute 
is provided. As the people of the United States eat more meat per 
capita than the people of any other civilized nation except Australia, 
it surely will not hurt us to reduce our use of meat. What is needed 
is a hearty dish to take its place. 

Do Growing Children Need Meat? 

Mrs. Rose in " Feeding the Family " advises against giving 
meat to children until they are seven or eight years old. She says 
they not only do not need meat earlier, but that if they are given 
meat at an early age they are likely to acquire a taste for it and 
refuse to drink milk, which is much more necessary to them. Most 
authorities do not forbid meat to children, and perhaps withholding 
it to this age is extreme, but the opinion is cited to show that meat 
is not the absolute necessity so many people believe. 

Why Too Much Meat is Bad. 

It is claimed that the undue eating of protein is a strain on the 
kidneys which must excrete the nitrogenous products from the 
body. This cannot be proved, perhaps, but we know that certain 
diseases, either the result of uric acid production or of putrefaction 
in the intestines, seem to occur more often in the people who have 
eaten large amounts of protein in meat. We also know that eating 
meat tends to reduce the alkalinity of the blood, and that if meat 
replaces too much fruit and vegetables this may be a source of 



12 ECONOMY IN FOOD 

danger. People who eat less protein seem to show more endm*ance 
than those who eat large amounts of protein; they tire less easily 
and do not get nearly so stiff and sore after severe exercise. 

Other Advantages in Using only Moderate Amounts of Meat. 

Meat is a very expensive part of our diet. A large share of the 
total amount which is spent for food is paid for meat. In normal 
times, they tell us, this should not be more than one-sixth of the total 
expenditure for food. 

At the present time meat is usually high and scarce because of 
the recent epidemic of foot-and-mouth disease which destroyed 
so many cattle. Without the war, we are told, it would take from 
seven to ten years to get our herds into condition and back to normal 
size again. With the Argentine in the same condition from the 
same cause it is evident that we must reduce our consumption of 
meat. Now it is very probable that we shall never have very cheap 
meat again, because, as the large ranges of western land are brought 
under cultivation, there is less area for free feeding, and food for 
cattle becomes expensive. 

Make Changes Slowly. 

People who are used to meat like its flavor and miss it if suddenly 
deprived of it; therefore, in reducing the meat in this diet, make 
changes slowly. Work first to supply the flavor with less actual 
meat. 

Making a Little Meat Go a Long Way. 

Every housewife knows what to do if the chicken she buys for 
dinner is too small to roast. Cut up and stewed, with plenty of 
rice and gravy, the "flavor is extended" with the use of less meat. 
Such devices are one way of being economical in the use of meat. 

Suggestions. 

1. Stews and Fricassees and Casserole Dishes made with 
plenty of rice or hominy or dumplings or baking-powder biscuits 
or vegetables. If made of meat already cooked, chop and add just 
long enough before the rest is done to warm thoroughly, otherwise 
meat is toughened. 

2. Meat-loaf, and Meat Cakes when mixed with plenty of bread 
crumbs. Moisten with water before cooking or meat will be dry. 
These may be served with white, brown, onion or tomato sauce 
which will make them still more appetizing. Use tried-out meat fat 
for the fat in these sauces. 

3. Hash made with potatoes and sauted in meat fat ; or hash 
warmed and served on toast without or with gravy. 



ECONOMY IN PLANNING MEALS 13 

4. Creamed Meat served in white, brown, or tomato sauce, 
made with meat fat. Serve on toast, in toast boxes, or patty shells, 
or in nests of potato, rice, hominy, or spaghetti, etc. ; then meat will 
go still further. 

5. Meat Piss made either with pie crust or mashed potato crust. 
Vegetables may be added. 

6. Scalloped Meat, that is, chopped and baked, covered with 
" buttered " crumbs. Use beef fat or butterine for the crumbs. 
Meat may be mixed with chopped vegetables and go still farther, 
or put in alternate layers with rice, macaroni, or spaghetti. Gravy 
or tomato sauce may replace the white sauce. 

7. Meat Souflfle. Meat chopped and mixed with thick white 
sauce and beaten egg, then baked in moderate oven. The meat 
may be mixed with chopped vegetables of all kinds, or with rice. 

8. Stuffed Meat, as stuffed heart, veal birds, etc. Thin slices 
of meat may be spread with stuffing, rolled, and baked in casserole. 

9. Meat served with Yorkshire Pudding, or Southern " Spoon 
Bread." i 

Yorkshire Pudding. 

1 c. milk or water ^ 2 tsp. baking powder 

^ c. corn meal 1 egg beaten slightly 

I c. flour i tsp. salt 

Grease a very hot shallow pan with beef fat ; baste with fat from 
the pan in which beef is roasting. Cut in squares for serving. 

10. Croquettes. Rice, hominy, etc., may be mixed with chopped 
meat, rolled in " buttered " crumbs and baked in oven instead of 
being fried. Or chopped meat may be added to fritter batter and 
fried in deep fat. 

1 1 . Meat Salads made with a little meat and plenty of vegetables. 

12. Scrambled Eggs and Omelets, with chopped meat stirred or 
folded in. 

13. Meat Soups made with cereal, (rice, hominy, oatmeal, barley, 
etc. ; left-over breakfast foods of all kinds may be added) and almost 
aiiy vegetables. 

14. Cream Soups and Chowders. Cream soups made with half 
milk, half water in which a vegetable has been cooked, containing 
some fat and thickened with flour, or milk chowders, are very 
hearty dishes with which to begin a meal and make it possible 
to serve much smaller portions of meat following them. Almost 
any vegetable or combination of vegetables can be used. If the 
flavor is not strong enough merely from using the water, a little of 
the vegetable chopped up fine or rubbed through a sieve may 

1 See Wellman's '' Food Study", p. 183. 

2 If sour milk is used, substitute J tsp. soda for all the baking 
powder. 



14 ECONOMY llNT FOOD 

be added. This is an excellent way to use up small amounts of 
vegetables. For example, a good cream-of-pea soup can be made by 
boiling the pods in water and adding a few cooked peas, milk, 
etc. Water in which vegetables are cooked should be saved 
and used in soup, because of the salts which are extracted from 
the vegetables and which would otherwise be wasted. The liquid 
in which vegetables are canned may also be used in soup. 

For each cup of soup allow 1 tbsp. of flour if the vegetable itself 
(cabbage, onion, cauhflower, etc.) has not thickening power, but 
only i tbsp. if much of a starchy vegetable is used (potato, corn, peas, 
beans, etc.). Be sure the soup actually boils after the flour is added 
or its full thickening power will not be given and there will be a raw 
taste. 

These dishes have an additional advantage because cheaper cuts 
of the meat or left-overs may be used in their preparation, or even 
meat already used for soup. The latter is still nutritious but needs 
flavor to make it palatable. If properly made, any of these dishes 
will be delicious. They furnish scope for originality and skill in 
the cooking, and add greatly to the variety of the diet. 

Use Every Scrap of Meat, Fat, and Bone. 

Bones of uncooked meat, of roasts and chops, etc., after cooking, 
bits of gristle, etc., can all be utilized to afford flavor and gelatine 
for soups and gravies. Any meat used in making soups should 
be eaten afterwards, for very little of anything but its flavor is given 
to the soup. Remember that the fat in meat stock should be 
removed and used in other ways, also that all the '* trimmings " 
cut off after the meat is weighed at the butcher's belong to the 
purchaser. 

Meat bought in larger quantities is cheaper. If you use in- 
genuity in preparing it in various ways, the same kind of meat 
can be used for some time without monotony. In cities, the butcher 
will sometimes corn a portion of the beef you buy and keep it back 
for you until asked to deliver it. 

Cheaper cuts of meat are often better flavored and more nutri- 
tious. Good cooks can make cheaper meat appetizing. This is 
where French cooks excel. 

We have unjustified prejudices against certain cuts of meat, 
or certain kinds of meat. Kidneys are in little demand here, but 
are considered a delicacy in England. Try broiled beef kidneys 
and fried heart, as well as the new kinds of fish coming in the market. 
Many people will not eat rabbit, a cheap and really delicious dish. 
We have grown used to the idea of pork and veal and chicken, but 
if we eat pigs we siirely have no excuse for being squeamish. 



ECONOMY IN PLANNING MEALS 15 

Let us learn to be citizens of the world and eat what the world 
eats. It is usually the provincial person who is finicky. 

MEAT SUBSTITUTES 

Most people who are used to eating a great deal of meat declare 
that they are hungry if they try to do with less. They fail to realize 
that this is always the result of any sudden change of diet. Even 
when some men who had been vegetarians all their lives were 
induced to begin eating meat, their complaint was that it was not 
satisfying and they felt hungry. All changes, then, must be made 
gradually. If your family is used to meat three times a day, don't 
expect them to be satisfied if they are suddenly cut down to meat 
only once or twice a week. 

Going without meat is often popularly understood to mean no 
change in the meal except the omission of the meat. Of course, 
to be satisfying, something else must be provided to take its place. 
This should be what is known as a hearty dish, — one that "stays 
by " you. It need not necessarily be protein, or even largely protein, 
because in an ordinary mixed diet, such as we Americans eatj the 
proportion of protein is usually very high anyway. 



MEAT SUBSTITUTES HIGH IN PROTEIN 
I. Eggs 

Eggs make a good substitute for meat, and are often cheaper. 
Since their value will be discussed under the heading " Economy 
in Recipes", only ways of using them directly as a substitute for 
meat will be listed here. 

1. Eggs !' boiled " or " dropped " — easily digested dishes. 

2. Eggs fried, especially when served with bacon or salt pork. 

3. Eggs as omelets. These may be flavored in a great many ways. 
Try using orange- juice with a little lemon in place of the liquid, and 
folding in sliced orange. Add sugar as desired. Sweetened omelet, 
with jelly folded in, is delicious. Omelet may be made with fewer 
eggs if either flour or bread crumbs are added. Omelet will go 
farther if served with a medium white sauce, a cheese white sauce, 
or a tomato sauce folded in and poured around. 

o. Omelet with Bread Crumbs. 

Add bread crumbs soaked in milk or water. 

For each egg allow 3 tbsp. bread crumbs and 2 tbsp. milk. 



16 ECONOMY IN FOOD 

b. Omelet with Flour. 

Use a medium white sauce or a tomato sauce. 

For each egg allow one cup of white sauce. 

4. Scrambled Eggs. 

One tablespoon of water or milk, or J c. white sauce or tomato 
sauce or canned tomato for each egg, may be added before cooking, 
or grated cheese may be mixed with it. 

5. Eggs in Potato Nests. 

Eggs dropped, without breaking, into mashed potato (this may be 
beaten with pimento rubbed through a strainer). 

Season with salt and pepper and place in oven imtil cooked to suit 
taste. 

6. Baked Eggs. 

Break an egg in a buttered cup, cover with " buttered " crumbs 
or white sauce seasoned with cheese and pepper, and bake till firm. 

Eggs may also be placed in small tomatoes scooped out from the 
stem end, seasoned with " buttered crumbs ", and baked. 

7. Stuffed Eggs. 

Cut hard-cooked eggs in haK. Remove yolk, season with J tsp. 
vinegar, a little salt, pepper, and mustard. Mold into ball with J 
tsp. melted butter or oleo, and replace. May be served with white 
sauce poured over, or mixed with white sauce and ^'buttered crumbs" 
and baked until crumbs brown. 

8. Creamed Eggs. 

Hard-boiled eggs cut and served in white sauce. 
Cheese may be added, or cooked macaroni, rice, etc. The whole 
may be covered with " buttered crumbs '^ and baked. 

9. Hard-Cooked Eggs on Toast. 

Slice eggs lengthwise and put on toast. Pour over a white sauce 
to which have been added boiled onions rubbed through a sieve. 

10. Egg Croquettes. 

Chop hard-cooked eggs and add enough white sauce to shape. 
Dip in egg and crumbs and fry in deep fat. Serve with this white 
sauce, cheese sauce, or tomato sauce. 

II. Cheese 
Nviritive Valvs and Cost 

Cheese is a very nutritious food,^ and very cheap when compared 
with meat. An inch cube of American cream cheese is more than 
equal in total food value to an egg, or to an ounce of porterhouse 

1 See Wellman's " Food Study", p. 284. 



ECONOMY IN PLANNING MEALS 17 

or sirloin steak, and supplies as much protein as the latter. To 
put it in another way, one pound of cheese is equal to almost two 
pounds of such meat, and costs less than half as much. 

How to Cook Cheese 

Cheese should never be exposed to extremely high temperatures. 
Therefore, it is better to grate it, or break it up, and stir it with 
white sauce just as the latter is taken from the fire, or to cook it 
over water. If a dish is to be scalloped with cheese, the cheese 
should be mixed through, rather than sprinkled over the top where 
it is exposed to the full heat of the oven. The hard crust will be 
prevented from forming on top of such dishes as macaroni and 
cheese, if the dish is covered with " buttered crumbs.^^ 

1. White Sauce Welsh Rabbit. 

Stir into a medium white sauce which is still very hot, some cheese, 
grated or cut ^ in small pieces. Pour on toasted bread or crackers 
and serve at once. 

2. Cheese and Cereal. 

Cooked cereals, such as hominy, rice, macaroni, etc., may be 
stirred with milk in a saucepan. When hot, add cheese grated or 
cut ^ into small pieces. Serve as soon as cheese is melted. For one 
cup of cereal allow J lb. cheese, add milk as needed. Thin white 
sauce may be used in place of the milk. 

The cereal, cheese, milk, or white sauce, may be placed in alter- 
nate layers in a greased dish, and covered with ^' buttered crumbs," 
then baked until crumbs are brown. 

3. English Monkey. 

Heat bread crumbs in milk in a sauce pan. When hot, stir in 
cheese and season to taste. May be served on toast. Use 1 tbsp. 
cheese to each cup of crumbs. 

4. Creamed Potatoes and Cheese. 

Heat boiled, or baked potatoes cut in cubes, in white sauce. 
Just before serving, stir in a little cheese. Allow 1 or 2 tbsp. cheese 
for each cup of potatoes. 

5. Cheese Pudding.^ 

This is a delicious lunch or supper dish, and is very hearty. It 
is an excellent way to use up stale bread. 

1 Fresh cheese may be easily broken up by rubbing it through a 
poarse strainer or frying-basket. 

2 See Wellman's '' Food Study ", p. 281, 



18 ECONOMY IN FOOD 

6. Cheese SoujgU. 

To each third cup of thick white sauce add 3 tbsp. grated cheese 
and the yolk of one egg. Fold in the white, beaten stiff, pour in a 
greased dish and bake in a slow oven until firm. Test with a knife ; 
when the knife comes out clean it is done. Serve at once. 

Egg and Cheese Dishes are given under Eggs as Meat Substitutes. 

III. Fish 
NiUritive Value and Cost ^ 

Fish ^ is somewhat, but as a usual thing not much, cheaper than 
meat pound for pound, and is only slightly less nutritious. How- 
ever, its use is to be recommended because it makes an acceptable 
meat substitute and it spares the demand on meat. Moreover, 
our supply of fish can be more easily increased than our supply of 
meat. If the cheaper fish is purchased, considerable saving can 
be made. Most shellfish are expensive. Oysters are costly for the 
amount of nutrition or protein obtained from them, but flavor 
often makes them welcome in place of meat. 

Cheaper Fish 

There are many fish being put upon the market now for which 
there was little demand a few years ago. Remember that demand 
usually means acquaintance, and let us not be afraid to try new 
kinds. Tuna fish was once scorned. Try carp and shark and all 
the rest, and see for yourself how good they are. Remember how 
many things children learn to eat. 

No general recipe for fish, oysters, etc., will be given, except a 
few suggestions of how to make a little go a long way. 

1. Fish Hash. 

Left-over fish may be mixed with cooked potato, seasoned, and 
sauted in suet or pork fat until brown on both sides. 

2. Creamed Fish and Scalloped Fish. 

Left-over fish may be served in white sauce on toast, or in 
toast boxes, or the fish may be mixed with "buttered crumbs." 
Chopped parsley may be stirred in for flavoring. If the fish is 
at all rich, no fat need be used in making the white sauce if whole 
nriilk is used; or skimmed milk with fat will be good. If the fish 
is strong flavored, as salmon or tima fish, it can be mixed with 

I See WeUman's " Food Study ", pp. 203-208. 



ECONOMY IN PLANNING MEALS 19 

a generous amount of bread crusts. Chopped hard-boiled egg may 
be added. 

3. Fish Balls, 

Fish mixed with equal parts of potato. Season, add beaten egg 
and fry in deep fat. 

4. Fish Croquettes, 

Mix fish with thick white sauce. Allow about twice as much 
flaked fish as sauce. Dip in eggs and crumbs and fry, or roll in 
''buttered crumbs" and bake. If fish is strongly flavored, add 
bread crumbs. 

5. Scalloped Oysters, 

Oysters go farthest served scalloped. That is, placed in a greased 
baking-dish in alternate layers with " buttered crumbs ", soaked and 
moistened with the liquid and a little added milk. Do not have more 
than two layers of oysters and do not over-bake. 

6. Oyster Stew and Creamed Oysters. 

The oysters used in making an oyster stew may be warmed and 
served next day as creamed oysters on toast. Make by adding 
oysters at the last moment to an equal amount of oysters creamed in 
the usual way. 

7. Fish Salad. 

Salmon and tuna fish, bought canned, are often served as salads. 
But almost any fish is excellent served in this way. It may be mixed 
with chopped celery, or chopped cucumber, or chopped tomato, or 
with a combination of them. It is good served in a nest of chopped 
spinach or other greens, or mixed with chopped hard-boiled eggs. 

8. Fish Chowder. 

This is a dish too often considered a shore dish, but it can be deli- 
ciously made from fish to be obtained in any part of the country. 

To make, cut some salt pork into cubes and fry. Then in the 
tried-out fat, fry some onions. Add water (or if fish used furnishes 
head, tail, and backbone, put these into cold water, bring to boil, 
and simmer twenty minutes ; use this stock in place of the water) 
and diced potatoes and cook until nearly soft. Then add fish cut 
in small pieces, and milk. Simmer ten minutes to cook the fish. 
Season and add the pork cubes, and crackers if desired. 

IV. Peas and Beans 

Peas and beans are high in protein and are hearty foods as well, 
so that they make good substitutes for meat. Bought dry they are 
usually inexpensive food even when the fuel necessary to cook them 
is counted. Various kinds of dried legumes are to be had, all 



20 ECONOMY IN FOOD 

inexpensive; white beans, lima beans, navy beans, kidney beans, 
black beans ; lentils, split white, yellow, or split green peas, whole 
green peas, and black-eyed peas, are all common. 

One pound of these dried legumes is more nutritious than a 
pound of most meat. Lima beans are the least likely to cause 
digestive disturbances. 

People who have gas stoves can often cook such foods as this on 
the ledge inside the furnace. If placed in a fireless cooker without 
a soapstone, it usually takes two heatings to get them thoroughly 
done. 

To prepare the dried legumes, soak them overnight, and start 
cooking them in plenty of cold water. Usually about three hours 
of cooking is necessary to make them tender. Split peas cook in 
a little less time, and navy beans take half an hour longer. 

1. Boiled Beans with Tomato. 

Beans of any variety — white, navy, kidney — and black-eyed 
peas are good boiled, with canned tomato added during the last part 
of the cooking. Onion may be used for seasoning if desired. Rice 
or macaroni may be added. 

2. Creamed Beans. 

Lima beans and kidney beans are good served with white sauce, 
or tomato sauce. 

3. Bean Loaf. 

Cooked beans of any variety, mashed and mixed with grated 
cheese, with enough bread crumbs added to make a roll, should be 
baked in a moderate oven, basting with hot water and fat. Allow J lb. 
cheese for 1 pint cooked beans. Serve with tomato or onion sauce. 

Kidney beans are especially good prepared in this way. 

4. Lima Bean or Pea Salad. 

Cold beans, if not sweetened in cooking, make excellent salad, as 
do cold peas. Lima beans, alone or with chopped celery, and French 
dressing, are especially good. 

5. Baked-bean Soup. 

Allow 1 c. baked beans for each pint of water. 

Bring to boihng, then simmer 30 minutes. Thicken with 1 tbsp. 
flour stirred in a little cold water. More fat may be added, and 
tomato or onions may be used for seasoning. 

6. Legume Soups. 

Any of the legumes, or combinations of them, make excellent 
hearty soups. Corn, tomatoes, or onions may also be combined with 
them. The vegetables may be left whole or rubbed through a 
strainer. 



ECONOMY IN PLANNING MEALS 21 

Soak dried legumes for 8 to 10 hours. Drain and boil in twice 
their bulk of water until soft. Thicken with flour. Allow about 
I c. of dried legumes for each cup of soup. 

V. Oth$:r Hearty Dishes 

Since it is not at all necessary that the protein needed in the diet 
be supplied by meat, it is entirely possible to use substitutes which 
are not especially high in protein and to supply the protein in other 
ways, as, for example, in desserts to serve at dinners furnishing meat 
substitutes which are not markedly high in protein. 

1. Vegetable Souffle. 

Allow 2 eggs and J c. of chopped vegetables to each cup of thick 
white sauce, mix the beaten yolks with the white sauce, and chopped 
cooked vegetable; then fold in whites, beaten stiffly. Bake in 
greased baking-dish, set in a pan of water. It may be covered 
with '' buttered crumbs." Cut with knife to test when done. Knife 
should come out clean. 

This is an excellent way to use small amounts of vegetables. Mix- 
tures of vegetables may be used. 

2. Scalloped Vegetables. 

Mix canned corn, boiled macaroni, cooked cabbage, or almost any 
other vegetable, with white sauce. Place in a greased baking-dish 
and cover with "buttered crumbs.'^ Heat in oven until crumbs are 
brown. Cheese may be added to the white sauce and increase its 
food value as well as its protein. 

3. Meatless Stew. 

Fry onions in a little meat fat — beef drippings, salt pork, or 
bacon. Add diced potatoes, carrots, and turnips. Simmer until all 
the vegetables are tender. This may be thickened with flour. 
More fat may be added and small pieces of crisp bacon or salt pork. 
This has a delicious flavor and avoids the tough stringy pieces of meat 
usually found in stew. It may be served with dumplings. Maca- 
roni may be added, or any other cereals. 

4. Jungle Stew. 

A similar stew may be made with beans, macaroni or rice, and 
tomatoes. Fry onion as before, add beans (already cooked) with 
cereal and tomato (which may be canned). 

5. Turkish Pilaf without Stock. 

Wash rice, cook in a little fat until brown, add boiling water, and 
steam. When water is absorbed add canned tomato and cook until 
rice is soft. Onion may be added. 

To I c. rice allow 1 c. boiling water and 1| c. of tomato. 



22 ECONOMY IN FOOD 

6. Bacon. 

With the advanced price, this is often considered a high-priced 
food. While this is true if the bacon is used as an accessory, it does 
not follow if it is used as a meat substitute. Even when a pound of 
bacon costs forty cents, it is only twice as expensive, say, as round 
steak costing perhaps twenty cents, but it furnishes over five times 
as much nutrition, pound for pound. Since in serving it goes a good 
deal further than meat, it should be considered a cheap substitute 
for expensive meat, and a possible one for cheaper meat. However, 
it is probable that war prices will make it necessary to buy little bacon 
of any type. Bacon ''strips", the odd-shaped pieces cut from the 
side in trimming, are less expensive than regular bacon. 

Bacon should be shced very thin. If it is too salt, dip the slices 
for a moment in warm water. Bacon is most easily cooked on a 
rack placed in a pan in the oven. If no rack is used, pour off the 
melted fat as it accumulates during the cooking. 

7. Salt Pork and Gravy. 

Salt pork, fried crisp, served with gravy made from the tried-out 
fat, flour and milk, makes an unusual meat substitute, and a very 
cheap one. 

8. Baked Bananas. 

Remove skin, sHce lengthwise. Dot with fat and sprinkle lightly 
with sugar. Bake until brown. Lemon juice may be added. 

9. Fried Bananas. 

Cut in quarters and fry. Sugar may be added. 

10. Banana Salad. 

Cut in half lengthwise. Serve on lettuce with boiled dressing. 
Sprinkle with ground peanuts. 

11. Banana Fritters. 

Cut in pieces, sprinkle with sugar, add lemon, if desired, drop in 
fritter batter and fry in deep fat. For batter, for 1 c. liquid use | c. 
flour, I egg, and J tsp. salt. 

12. Corn Fritters. 

Sift flour, baking-powder, salt and pepper, together. Add 
canned corn, preferably chopped. Add beaten egg, and drop by 
spoonfuls in a hot greased frying-pan or griddle. Turn when brown. 

For one can of corn, allow 1 c. flour, 2 tsp. baking-powder and 
1 egg. 

13. Fried Cereal Mush. 

Pack warm cereal mush in a pan or can. When cold, cut in slices, 
dip in flour, or in flour and egg, and fry. Serve with syrup. 

Hominy, corn meal, oat meal, etc., are all suitable for use in this 
way. 



USES OF LEFT-OVERS 23 

14. Cereal Cutlets. 

Mold cereal and slice as for frying. Roll in '^ buttered crumbs " 
and bake in quick oven until brown. Serve with butter or syrup. 

STARCHES AND SUGARS 

Starchy food should make up the bulk of the diet if the whole 
is to be inexpensive. Cereals and starchy vegetables are excellent 
food and cheap. 

Sugars/ while desirable, are not necessary in the diet because 
starch, in digestion, is changed into sugar and so supplies the body 
with the same material. However, sugar is quickly digested and 
is usually not expensive. 

VEGETABLES 

Vegetables should be used somewhat freely, if possible. Pota- 
toes are inexpensive and valuable food. Too often the housewife 
prepares these in only one or two ways. Variety should be secured 
by using more methods.^ 

Much valuable mineral matter is lost ^ if vegetables are boiled and 
the water is discarded. Such water should be used in making sauces 
or soups, or added to gravy. 

If the water cannot be used, the vegetables should be baked, 
steamed, or sauted for variety. 

FAT 

The Federal Food Administration tells us that we eat and waste 
about 240 per cent more fat than we need. Saving this waste is 
one way of economizing. Another consists in not using expensive 
fats where cheaper ones will serve. So far as we know, all pure 
fats have equal food value. 

E. USES OF LEFT-OVERS 

With skill, left-overs may be made as pleasing as the original dish. 
Too often they are put away in the ice-box until they spoil and are 
then thrown out. This is not economy. 

1 Wellman's " Food Study ", pp. 160-161, 163-167. 

2 Fannie M. Farmer: Boston Cooking School Cook Book, Re- 
vised ed., pp. 30^321. 

8 WeUman's " Food Study ", p. 149. 



24 ECONOMY IN FOOD 

Almost anything, except left-over desserts, can be used in soups ; 
undesirable, gristly meat, left-over portions, vegetables, water in 
which vegetables or meats have been cooked, hot water that has 
been used to rinse out the pans in which meat has been cooked or 
vegetables served, grains, cereals, even the well-washed parings 
of vegetables, may be added for flavor and for their mineral 
salts. 

Left-over meat and fish may make chowder, stews, pies, hash, 
souffles or salads, or they may be served minced or creamed. Rind 
of bacon and salt pork may be cooked with green vegetables or 
used to flavor soups. 

Left-over vegetables make delicious salads, or may be mixed 
with each other to appear again as a " vegetable." For example, 
peas and carrots may be mixed, etc. 

Soft-boiled eggs, left over, can be cooked hard and used for cream- 
ing, or garnishing; or they may be chopped fine and added to 
vegetables or chopped meat. 

Left-over cereals may be fried, made into griddlecakes, added 
to muffins, put into soups or gravies, mixed with meat or vegetables 
for pies, or scalloped dishes, stews and soufiles. They may also 
be sweetened, mixed with fruit and spice, and appear as puddings. 

SUghtly dry bread or biscuits may be freshened by moistening 
the crust and reheating in a covered pan. Toast, milk toast, cream 
toast, tomato sauce toast, fried toast and croutons may all be made 
out of dry bread. Scalloped dishes all call for bread crumbs. Finely 
ground bread or cracker crumbs may be used in place of flour 
in making griddlecakes, muflSns, cake, etc., or as thickening in 
soups. 

Unless bread has been thoroughly dried in the oven it should not 
be kept in a closed jar or tin. Store it in an open bowl or paper bag 
in a cupboard away from dust. If stored while it still contains 
moisture, it will acquire a stale, musty taste. 



F. ECONOMY IN RECIPES 

Many people do not realize that is it often possible to use an 
expensive or a cheap recipe for the same dish with little difference 
in result. Otherwise desirable recipes that are extravagant can 
readily be modified by a Httle thought. Of course, if we have less 
rich concentrated food, we shall need more food, but the probability 
is that this will be all the better for our digestions. Here are some 
suggestions : 



ECONOMY IN RECIPES 25 



Fat 

Do not use butter in cakes, cookies, and pies. Try cutting down 
the amount of fat used in a recipe until you are sure you have used 
as Kttle as possible. If pure fats are substituted for butter use 
four-fifths of the amount of the butter to get the same result. 

Fat from stock or from cooking meats should be saved. Beef and 
chicken fat, tried out, may be used in cakes, cookies, gravies, soups, 
etc. ; bacon fat is good in corn cakes, meat sauces, and soups 
made from legumes, and meatless stews; sausage fat is useful for 
spiced cookies, gingerbread, and poultry stuffing. Any of these 
can be used in sauteing vegetables, or in basting. Fat unusable in 
cooking should be sold or made into soap, not thrown away. 

Eggs 

The number of eggs in a recipe can usually be cut materially or 
even omitted entirely. For eggs used as leavening, substitute a 
teaspoon of baking powder for each egg omitted, but here some 
egg must be used. The egg may often be omitted if a food is to 
be dipped in crumbs or meal, and fried. If the egg is used, allow 
two to three tablespoons of water to each egg. 

Dried egg powders are sold. They may be used in baking, in 
muffins, griddle cakes, etc., or whenever they are not depended 
upon for leavening. They are a great saving. 

Milk 

Water may be used as the liquid in place of milk in all muffin 
and cake mixtures. Skimmed milk may also be used. 

Cream 

Cream, whipped, goes farther than plain cream. Stiffly-beaten 
white of egg, when eggs are cheap, may be beaten into whipped cream. 
Some kinds of cream-whips will whip thin cream. It is more eco- 
nomical to use one than to beat heavy cream with an egg-beater. 

Salad-dressing 

Olive oil is expensive, cotton-seed and corn oils less so. The latter 
make a good substitute in mayonnaise if too much salt is not added. 
These are, however, more expensive than boiled dressings thickened 
partly with flour, partly with egg. Sour cream, sweetened with 
sugar and flavored with vinegar, makes an excellent dressing. 



26 ECONOMY IN FOOD 



Sugar 

Very sour fruits may be sweetened with less sugar if a little soda 
is added. Fruit preserves may be made with far less sugar if salt 
is used. They must be kept a few days before using, so that the 
salty taste is no longer distinguishable. Allow three-fourths of a 
cup of sugar and one and one-fourth of a teaspoon of salt to one 
pound of fruit. 

Jellies and Jams 

The more expensive fruits may be used for flavor, and the bulk 
of a preserve or jelly made out of less expensive material. For 
example, rhubarb may be added to blackberry, strawberry, or rasp- 
berry jam; carrots may be added to conserve, and apples used 
in fruit jellies. 

If only one extraction for jelly is made, the pulp makes good 
marmalade. 

Watermelon rind makes excellent pickle; orange and grape- 
fruit peel are good candied. 

Yeast 

Dry yeast is cheaper than compressed. If dry yeast is used, 
bread must be made by the " long process." 

If bread is frequently made in large quantities, it is economy to 
make liquid yeast. 

Liquid Yeast 

4 medium-sized potatoes 1 cake dry yeast, softened in i cup of 

warm water, or 
1 quart hot water 1 cake of compressed yeast 

1 teaspoon salt J cup sugar 

Wash, pare and cook the potatoes in the water. Drain, mash 
and return to the water. Make up to one quart. Add the sugar 
and salt and allow the mixture to cool. When lukewarm add the 
yeast. Keep at room temperature (65° to 70° F.) for 24 hours before 
using. If kept for a longer time it should be poured into a sterihzed 
jar and put in a dark, cool place. 

J c. Uquid yeast may be used in place of | compressed yeast cake 
and J c. of water in a bread recipe if the " short process " is followed. 
If the bread is made by the " long process " use 2 tbsp. of the liquid 
yeast for J compressed yeast cake. 



ECONOMY IN FUEL 27 

G. ECONOMY IN FUEL 

Economy in fuel is also worthy of consideration. Unless the 
cook stove is also used for heating, it is costly to run it unnecessarily. 
A fireless cooker soon pays for itself under such circumstances, 
especially if gas or electricity is used for cooking. A serviceable 
one may be made at home.^ 

With a gas stove, if the family is small, it pays to use a small 
portable oven ^ over a burner on the top of the stove. 

In general, care should be taken that a burner is not lighted before 
one is ready to use it, and that it is turned out as soon as possible ; 
also that the flame be turned as low as possible in boiling vegetables 
after actual boiling has begun. 

Much can be done by planning to bake several things at once 
when the oven must be used. 

* A free bulletin may be obtained from U. S. Dept. of Agriculture, 
Farmers' Bulletin, 100, 298, '' The Fireless Cooker." 
2 See Wellman's " Food Study", p. 113. 



28 



ECONOMY IN FOOD 



TABLE OF COST 



loo-CALORIE PORTIONS OF FOODS 

AND FACTORS FOR CALCULATING THEM 

The prices used in this table are those that foods were sold for 
during 1916 or 1917, and are intended to show the usual relative 
cost of food from the fuel-value standpoint. 

To bring up to date, multiply the factor given in column III by 
the present price per pound (or per dozen, quart, etc., if so stated) 
and use the result obtained in place of the one given in column IV. 

The foods are grouped to bring out the comparative cost of 
like foods. 

If the commodity is sold by the pound the factor in column III 
is obtained by dividing one cent by the number of 100-calorie portions 
in one pound. This is equivalent to dividing 100 by the full value 
per pound. 

When the commodity is not sold by the pound, the factor is ob- 
tained by dividing one by the weight, expressed in pounds, of the 
quart, peck, or dozen, and then dividing that by the number of 100- 
calorie portions in a pound. 



I 


II 


III 


IV 


v 


Name op Food 


Fuel 
Value 

PER 

Pound 


Factor 

TO BE 

Multiplied 
BY Price to 
Obtain V 


Special Price 

Used to 
Obtain Cost 
Given in V 


Cost of 
100-Calorib 
Portion at 
Price Given 
IN IV. Ex- 
pressed in 
Cents and 
Fractions of 
A Cent 


Berries : 

Blackberries . . 

Cranberries . . 

Currants . . . 

Raspberries, red 

Strawberries . . 
Bread : 

Boston Brown . 

Graham . . . 

Rye .... 

White .... 

Whole wheat 
Butter (see Fats) 


262 
212 

259 

247 
168 

1026 
1189 
1153 
1174 
1113 


0.2781 

0.472 

0.2801 

0.2941 

0.4321 

0.097 
0.084 
0.087 
0.085 
0.090 


180 per qt. 
150 per lb. 
180 per qt. 
200 per qt. 
12j0perqt. 

50 per lb. 
50 per lb. 
50 per lb. 
50 per lb. 
50 per lb. 


5.00 
7.08 
5.04 

5.88 
5.40 

0.49 
0.42 
0.44 
0.43 
0.45 



^ Calculated on the basis that one quart of berries weighs 22 ounces. 



TABLE OF COST OF 100-CALORIE PORTIONS OF FOODS 29 



I 


II ' 


III 


IV 


V 










Cost of 










100-Calorib 


Name of Food 


Fuel 
Value 

per 
Pound 


Factor 

TO BE 

Multiplied 
BY Price to 
Obtain V 


Special Price 

Used to 
Obtain Cost 
Given in V 


Portion at 
Price Given 
in IV, Ex- 
pressed IN 
Cents and 
Fractions of 
A Cent 


Cereals (see also 










Bread) : 










Barley, Pearl 


1615 


0.062 


10^ per lb. 


0.62 


Corn meal . . 


1620 


0.062 


6^ per lb. 


0.37 


Corn flakes . . 


1631 


0.061 


20^ per lb. 

[10^5 for 8 oz. 

pkg.] 


1.22 


Cornstarch . . 


1632 


0.061 


10^ per lb. 


0.61 


Cream of wheat 


1641 


0.061 


15,2^ per lb. 


0.91 


Flour, barley 


1603 


0.062 


8f^per lb. 


0.50 


Flour, buckwheat 


1577 


0.063 


10^ per lb. 


0.63 


Flour, Graham . 


1628 


0.061 


4(2^ per lb. 


0.24 


Flour, rye . . 


1588 


0.063 


4:^ per lb. 


0.25 


Flour, white . . 


1603 


0.062 


4^ per lb. 


0.25 


Flour, whole 










wheat . . . 


1630 


0.061 


4^ per lb. 


0.24 


Grapenuts . . 


1683 


0.059 


20f^per lb. 

[15^ for 12 oz. 

pkg.] 


1.18 


Hominy, un- 










cooked . . . 


1608 


0.062 


6^ per lb. 


0.37 


Macaroni . . . 


1625 


0.062 


10^ per lb. 


0.62 


Noodles . . . 


1625 


0.062 


lO^^perlb. 


0.62 


Oatmeal, Rolled 










Oats .... 


1803 


0.056 


6.7^ per lb. 
[lO^forlilb. 
pkg.] 


0.38 


Oatmeal, steel cut 


1811 


0.055 


6^ per lb. 


0.33 


Popcorn . . . 


1826 


0.055 


10^ per lb. 


0.55 


Rice .... 


1591 


0.063 


10^ per lb. 


0.63 


Shredded wheat 


1660 


0.060 


16^ per lb. 
[12^ for 12 oz. 
pkg.] 


0.96 


Tapioca, Minute 


1608 


0.062 


20^ per lb. 
[lOjiforSoz. 
pkg.] 


1.24 


Cheese (see Dairy 










Products) 











30 



ECONOMY IN FOOD 



I 


II 


III 


IV 


V 










Cost op 










100-Calorie 


Namk op Food 


Fuel 
Value 

per' 
Pound 


Factor 

TO BE 

Multiplied 
BY Price to 
Obtain V 


Special Price 

Used to 
Obtain Cost 
Given in V 


Portion at 
Price Given 
IN IV, Ex- 
pressed IN 
Cents and 
Fractions op 
A Cent 


Chocolate and Co- 










coa (see Sweets) 










Crackers : 










Boston crackers 


1837 


0.054 


8f^perlb. 


0.43 


Graham crackers 


1904 


0.052 


15 p per lb. 


0.78 


Oatmeal crackers 


1920 


0.052 


lOfiperlb. 


0.52 


Oyster crackers . 


1914 


0.052 


10^ per lb. 


0.52 


Saltines . . . 


1952 


0.051 


10^ per lb. 


0.51 


Soda crackers . 


1875 


0.053 


8^ per lb. 


0.42 


Water crackers . 


1790 


0.056 


15^ per lb. 


0.84 


Cream (see Dairy- 










Products) 










Dairy Products 










Butter (see Fats) 










Buttermilk . . 


166 


0.2781 


6^ per qt. 


1.67 


Cheese, American 


1994 


0.050 


'25fiper lb. 


1.25 


Condensed, 










sweetened . . 


1480 


0.068 


40ffperlb. 
[20^ for 8 oz.] 


2.72 


Condensed, 










unsweetened 


757 


0.132 


20^ per lb. 
[10f^for8oz.] 


2.64 


Cream, thin 










(18%) . . . 


880 


0.058 2 


40 fi per qt. 


2.32 


Cream, thick 










(40%) . . . 


1727 


0.029 3 


60^ per qt. 


1.74 


Skimmed milk . 


166 


0.278^ 


50 per qt. 


1.39 


Whole milk . . 


314 


0.148 5 


100 per qt. 


1.48 



1 Calculated on the basis that 1 qt. of buttermilk weighs 2 lb. 
2.6 oz. or 980 g. 

2 Calculated on the basis that 1 qt. of thin cream weighs 1 lb. 
15.6 oz. or 896 g. 

3 Calculated on the basis that 1 qt. of thick cream weighs 1 lb. 
15 oz. or 880 g. 

^ Calculated on the basis that 1 qt. of skimmed milk weighs 2 lb. 
2.6 oz. or 980 g. 

^ Calculated on the basis that 1 qt. of whole pijilk weighs 2 lb- 
24 oz. or 976 g. 



TABLE OF COST OF 100-CALORIE PORTIONS OF FOODS 31 



I 


II 


III 


IV 


V 










Cost of 










100-Calorie 


Name of Food 


Fuel 
Value 

per 
Pound 


Factor 

to be 

Multiplied 

BY Price to 

Obtain V 


Special Price 

Used to 
Obtain Cost 
Given in V 


Portion at 
Price Given 
IN IV, Ex- 
pressed in 
Cents and 
Fractions of 
A Cent 


Eggs without shell 


672 


0.1141 


r50ff per doz. 
^35^ per doz. 
[25^ per .doz. 


r5.70 

3.99 

[2.85 


Fats (seeOils) : 






[60^ per lb. 


ri.74 


Butter .... 


3488 


0.029 


<45?^ per lb. 
[35^ per lb. 


h.31 
[1.02 


Cottolene . . . 


4082 


0.024 


18^ per lb. 


0.43 


Cotton-seed oil . 


4082 


0.132 2 


50^ per qt. 


6.60 


Lard .... 


4082 


0.024 


20^ per lb. 
'50^ per lb. 


0.48 
ri.45 


Oleomargarine . 


3410 


0.029 


35^ per lb. 
25^ per lb. 


{1.02 
[0.73 


Olive oil . . . 


4082 


0.132 2 


lOOji per qt. 


13.32 


Salt pork . . . 


3575 


0.028 


25|6perlb. 


0.70 


Suet, beef . . . 


3425 


0.029 


15iiperlb. 


0.44 


Fish: 










Bluefish . . . 


206 


0.485 


23^ per lb. 


11.16 


Codfish, steaks . 


329 


0.304 


120 per lb. 


3.65 


Codfish, salt . . 


515 


0.194 


20f5perlb. 


3.88 


Halibut . . . 


457 


0.219 


300 per lb. 


6.57 


Herring, smoked 


731 


0.137 


250 per lb. 


3.43 


Lobster, canned 


382 


0.262 


700 per lb. 


18.34 


Oysters . . . 


222 


0.300 3 


400 per qt. 


12.00 


Salmon, fresh 


582 


0.172 


200 per lb. 


3.44 


Salmon, canned . 


660 


0.152 


100 per lb. 


1.52 


Sardines . . . 


924 


0.108 


400 per lb. 


4.32 


Tuna .... 


560 


0.179 


34.30 per lb. 

[300 for 14 oz. 

can] 


6.14 


Whitefish . . . 


315 


0.314 


150 per lb. 


4.71 


Flour (see Cereals) 










Fruit (see Berries) : 










Apples, fresh . . 


214 


0.037^ 


600 per pk. 


2.22 



1 Calculated on basis that 1 dz. eggs without shell weighs 1 lb. 
^ oz. or 50 g. per egg. 

2 Calculated on the basis that 1 qt. of oil weighs 1 lb. 13.7 oz. 

3 Calculated on basis that 1 qt. of oysters weighs 1 lb. 8 oz. 
,'* Calculated on basis that 1 pk. of apples weighs 12f lb. 



32 



ECONOMY IN -POOD 



I 


II 


III 


IV 


V 










Cost of 










100-Calorie 


Name of Food 


Fuel 
Value 

PER 


Factor 

to BE 

Multiplied 


Special Price 

Used to 
Obtain Cost 


Portion at 
Price Given 
IN IV, Ex- 




Pound 


BY Price to 
Obtain V 


Given in V 


pressed in 

Cents and 

Fractions of 

A Cent 


Fruit — Cont. 










Apples, dried 


1318 


0.076 


lOf^perlb. 


0.76 


Apricots, dried . 


1260 


0.079 


25^ per lb. 


1.98 


Bananas . . . 


290 


0.345 


7if^per lb. 


2.59 


Cherries, candied 


1578 


0.063 


50^ per lb. 


3.15 


Cherries, canned 


407 


0.246 


16^ per lb. 
[40^for2ilb.] 


3.94 


Citron .... 


1487 


0.067 


30f^per lb. 


1.41 


Currants, dried . 


1459 


0.069 


15^ per lb. 


1.04 


Dates, dried . . 


1416 


0.071 


10^ per lb. 


0.71 


Figs, dried . . 


1437 


0.070 


20^ per lb. 


1.40 


Grapes. . . . 


328 


0.051 


200 per bas- 
ket [6 lbs.] 


1.02 


Lemons . . . 


140 


0.2861 


25 fi per doz. 


7.15 


OUves .... 


993 


0.067 2 


40 f^ per qt. 


2.68 


Oranges . . . 


169 


0.148 3 


40f^per dz. 


5.92 






[0.013 


r200<iper bu. 


[2.60 


Peaches, fresh . 


153 




{ [50 lb.] 








[0.217 4 


[ 300 per doz. 


[6.51 


Peaches, canned 


213 


0.469 


100 per lb. 

[250 for 2i lb. 

can] 


4.69 


Pears, fresh . . 


245 


0.408 


1.50 per lb. 

[750 a bu. 
(50 lb.)] 


0.61 


Pears, canned . 


344 


0.290 


100 per lb. 

[250 for 2 J lb. 

can] 


2.90 


Pineapple, canned 


696 


0.144 


100 per lb. 

[250 for 2i lb. 

can] 


1.44 


Prunes .... 


1161 


0.086 


150 per lb. 


1.29 


Raisins, seeded . 


1563 


0.064 


120 per lb. 


0.77 


Raisins, layer 


1407 


0.071 


300 per lb. 


2.13 



1 Calculated on basis that 1 doz. lemons weigh 2 lb. 8 oz. 

2 Calculated on basis that 1 qt. ohves weighs 1 lb. 8 oz. 

3 Calculated on the basis that 1 doz, medium oranges weigh 4 lb. 
f Calculated on the basis that 1 doz. peaches weigh 3 lb. 



TABLE OF COST OF 100-CALORIE PORTIONS OF FOODS 33 



I 


II 


III 


IV 


V 










Cost of 










100-Calorie 


Name op Food 


Fuel 
Value 

PER 

Pound 


Factor 

TO BE 

Multiplied 
BY Price to 
Obtain V 


Special Price 

Used to 
Obtain Cost 
Given in V 


Portion at 
Price Given 
IN IV. Ex- 
pressed in 
Cents and 
Fractions of 
A Cent 


Fruit— Cont. 










Rhubarb . . . 


62 


1.613 


5^ per lb. 


8.07 


Watermelon . . 


57 


1.754 


Sf^perlb. 


5.26 


Gelatine . . . . 


1662 


0.060 


240^ per lb. 

[15^ per 1 oz. 

pkg.] 


14.40 


Meats : 










Bacon .... 


2597 


0.039 


25^ per lb. 


0.98 


Beef, dried . . 


760 


0.132 


40^ per lb. 


5.28 


Beef, heart . . 


1277 


0.078 


12i^perlb. 


0.98 


Beef, liver . . 


539 


0.186 


10^ per lb. 


1.86 


Porterhouse 










steak . . . 


1075 


0.093 


28^ per lb. 


2.60 


Beef, rib, roast . 


1078 


0.093 


25^ per lb. 


2.33 


Beef, round, lean 


652 


0.153 


22^ per lb. 


3.37 


Beef, sirloin . . 


960 


0.104 


25^ per lb. 


2.60 


Beef, tenderloin . 


1290 


0.078 


75^ per lb. 


5.85 


Beef, tongue 


530 


0.189 


15^ per lb. 


2.84 


Chicken, young . 


289 


0.346 


35^ per lb. 


12.11 


Fowl .... 


751 


0.133 


25ff per lb. 


3.33 


Ham, fresh . . 


1302 


0.077 


25f;fperlb. 


1.93 


Ham, smoked . 


1621 


0.062 


35ff perlb. 


2.17 


Ham, deviled 


1738 


0.057 


105ff per lb. 
[18^for2|oz.] 


5.99 


Lamb, loin chops 


1274 


0.078 


25^ per lb. 


1.95 


Lamb, leg . . 


844 


0.118 


25)6 per lb. 


2.95 


Mutton, leg . . 


874 


0.114 


20^ per lb. 


2.28 


Pork, chops . . 


1231 


0.081 


22?^ per lb. 


1.78 


Pork, tenderloin 


874 


0.114 


30^ per lb. 


3.42 


Sausage, pork . 


1642 


0.061 


22^ per lb. 


1.34 


Sausage, beef . 


525 


0.190 


18^ per lb. 


3.42 


Sausage, Wiener- 










wurst . . . 


1439 


0.069 


15^ per lb. 


1.04 


Turkey . . . 


1043 


0.096 


30)6 per lb. 


2.88 


Veal, cutlets . . 


671 


0.149 


25)6 per lb. 


3.72 


Veal, leg . . . 


569 


0.176 


300 per lb. 


5.28 


Milk (see Dairy 










Products) 











34 



ECONOMY IN FOOD 



I 


II 


III 


IV 


V 










Cost of 










100-Calorie 


Name of Food 


Fuel 
Value 

PER 

Pound 


Factor 

TO BE 

Multiplied 
BY Price to 
Obtain V 


Special Price 

Used to 
Obtain Cost 
Given in V 


Portion at 
Price Given 
in IV, Ex- 
pressed IN 
Cents and 
Fractions op 
A Cent 


Molasses (see 










Sweets) 










Nuts: 










Almonds, shelled 


1615 


0.062 


70^ per lb. 


4.34 


Butternuts . . 


417 


0.240 


20^ per lb. 


4.80 


Chestnuts . . . 


920 


0.109 


150 per lb. 


1.64 


Cocoanuts, fresh 


1369 


0.073 


20 f* per lb. 

[lO^ffor Jib. 

nut] 


1.46 


Cocoanuts, pre- 










pared . . . 


3028 


0.033 


800 per lb. 
[100 for 2 oz.] 


2.64 


Peanuts, butter . 


2741 


0.036 


200 per lb. 


0.72 


Peanuts, shelled 


2487 


0.040 


300 per lb. 


1.20 


Peanuts, 










unshelled . . 


1877 


0.053 


200 per lb. 


1.06 


Wahiuts . . . 


859 


0.116 


200 per lb. 


2.32 


Oils (see Fats) 










Soups, canned : 










Celery, cream of 


243 


0.412 


100 per lb. 


4.12 


Chicken gumbo . 


191 


0.524 


100 per lb. 


5.24 


Com, cream of . 


265 


0.377 


100 per lb. 


3.77 


Pea, cream of . 


261 


0.383 


100 per lb. 


3.83 


Tomato . . . 


179 


0.559 


100 per lb. 


5.59 


Vegetable . . . 


62 


1.613 


100 per lb. 


16.13 


Sweets : 










Chocolate . . . 


2772 


0.036 


. 450 per lb. 


1.62 


Cocoa powder . 


2256 


0.044 


450 per lb. 


1.98 


Doughnuts . . 


1942 


0.0691 


100 per doz. 


0.69 


Fig bars . . . 


1619 


0.062 


200 per lb. 


1.24 


Gingersnaps . . 


1848 


0.054 


150 per lb. 


0.81 


Honey .... 


1480 


0.068 


22.90 per lb. 
[200 for 14 oz.] 


1.56 


Marmalade, 










orange . . . 


1550 


0.065 


500 per lb. 
[250 for 8 oz.] 


3.25 



J Calculated on the basis that 1 doz. doughnuts weigh 12 oz. 



TABLE OF COST OF 100-CALORI^' 'POiR'llOk^.'Oi; >iF6o'l)8^ 



I 


II 


III 


IV 


V 










Cost of 










100-Calorib 


Name of Food 


Fuel 
Value 

PER 

Pound 


Factor 

TO BE 

Multiplied 
BY Price to 
Obtain V 


Special Price 

Used to 
Obtain Cost 
Given in V 


Portion at 
Price Given 
IN IV, Ex- 
pressed IN 
Cents and 
Fractions of 
A Cent 


Sweets — Cont. 










Molasses, cane . 


1300 


0.077 


6.30 per lb. 

[150 for 2 lb. 

6 oz.] 


0.49 


Sugar, white . . 


1814 


0.055 


90 per lb. 


0.50 


Sugar, brown 


1724 


0.058 


60 per lb. 


0.35 


Syrup, maple 


1160 


0.031 1 


35 per qt. 


1.09 


Vanilla wafers . 


1990 


0.050 


250 per lb. 


1.25 


Vegetables : 










Asparagus, fresh 


101 


0.990 


100 per lb. 


9.90 


Asparagus, 










canned . . . 


82 


1.220 


250 per lb. 


30.50 


Beans, balked 










canned . . . 


583 


0.172 


120 per lb. 
[150forUlb. 
can] 


2.06 


Beans, dried . . 


1564 


0.064 


100 per lb. 


0.64 


Beans, Lima, 










fresh . . . 


250 


0.400 


150 per lb. 


6.00 


Beans, Lima, 










dried . . . 


1586 


0.063 


100 per lb. 


0.63 


Beans, Tiima, 










canned . . . 


350 


0.286 


120 per lb. 

[150forlHb. 

can] 


3.43 


Beans, string, 










fresh .... 


176 


0.568 


80 per lb. 


4.54 


Beans, string. 










canned . . . 


93 


1.075 


120 per lb. 


12.90 


Beets .... 


167 


0.599 


20 per lb. 


1.20 


Cabbage . . . 


121 


0.826 


50 per lb. 


4.13 


Carrots . . . 


159 


0.629 


40 per lb. 


2.52 


Cauliflower . . 


138 


0.725 


100 per lb. 


7.25 


Celery .... 


68 


1.470 


100 per lb. 


14.70 


Corn, canned 


445 


0.225 


120 per lb. 


2.70 


Cucumbers . . 


68 


1.470 


100 per lb. 


14.70 


Lentils .... 


1581 


0.063 


150 per lb. 


0.95 



1 Calculated on the ba^is that 1 qt. of maple syrup weighs 2f lb. 



mj 



3S%lU'l, 



EqdNOMT IN FOOD 



I 


II 


III 


IV 


V 










Cost op 










100-Calorib 


Name op Food 


Fuel 
Value 

PER 


Factor 

TO BE 

Multiplied 


Special Price 

Used to 
Obtain Cost 


Portion at 

Price Given 

IN IV, Ex- 




Pound 


BY Price to 
Obtain V 


Given in V 


pressed IN 

Cents and 

Fractions op 

A Cent 


Vegetables — Cont. 










Lettuce . . . 


72 


1.389 


lOfiperlb. 


13.89 


Mushrooms . . 


203 


0.493 


75^ per lb. 


36.98 


Onions .... 


200 


0.500 


4^ per lb. 


2.00 


Parsnips . . . 


236 


0.424 


4^ per lb. 


1.70 


Peas, fresh . . 


251 


0.398 


5ff perlb. 


1.99 


Peas, canned . . 


251 


0.398 


12^ per lb. 


4.78 


Peas, dried, split 


1612 


0.062 


lOffperlb. 


0.62 


Potato, chips . . 


2596 


0.039 


60^ per lb. 

[15 jf for 

4oz.] 


2.34 


Potato, sweet . 


447 


0.224 


5fiperlb. 


1.12 


Potato, white . 


302 


0.331 


3^ per lb. 


0.99 


Pumpkins . . , 


59 


1.694 


li^perlb. 


2.54 


Spinach . . . 


109 


0.917 


6f^perlb. 


5.50 


Squash. . . . 


103 


0.971 


lifiperlb. 


1.46 


Tomatoes, fresh 


104 


0.962 


/I5^perlb. 
\ 50 per lb. 


/ 14.43 
\ 4.81 


Tomatoes, canned 


103 


0.971 


7iff perlb. 


7.28 


Turnips . . . 


124 


0.806 


30 per lb. 


2.42 



THIS BOOK IS DUE ON THE LAST DATE 
STAMPED BELOW 



AN INITIAL FINE OF 25 CENTS 

WILL BE ASSESSED FOR FAILURE TO RETURN 
THIS BOOK ON THE DATE DUE. THE PENALTY 
WILL INCREASE TO SO CENTS ON THE FOURTH 
DAY AND TO $1.00 ON THE SEVENTH DAY 
OVERDUE. 



/!r 



^93:^ 



JUN 9 1941 
JUN 23 1941 



r\c~> 



LD 21-50m-l,'33 



c36 



YB 67814 



382088 



UNIVERSITY OF CAUFORNIA LIBRARY 



