
.m 



p-? 



TX 749 
.M5 
Copy 1 



NIVERSITY 



Vol. XV 



OF ILLINOIS 

Issued Weekly 
JUNE 24, 1918 



BULLETIN 



No. 43 



[Entered as second-class matter December ii, 1912, at the post office at Urbana, Illinois 
under the Act of August 24, 1912] 



MEAT 



By 



a- 



LUCILE \y HEELER 
Associate in Household Science 




<^3 







'^^Jy 






PUBLISHED BY THE UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS 

Under the Direction of the War Committee 

URBANA 

Only strict economy in the consumption of meat at home will allow 
meat for the Allies and our soldiers abroad. 

Meat cannot be kept indefinitely. Therefore, a condition may arise 
which will alter the meat situation temporarily. 

Watch the rules issued by the Food Administration. 



MEAT 

WHAT TO USE— HOW TO USE IT 

The necessity for a meatless day has not disappeared. A 
different plan is to reduce the amount of meat purchased and pre- 
pared each and every day. 

]\Ieat must he saved now more than ever. 

Before the war, less than 15,000,000 pounds of meat a week 
were exported ; now, 75,000,000 pounds a week are called for. 

If the meat is consumed here it cannot be sent abroad. If each 
one will eat less, it can be done. 

Fewer animals are being shipped to the meat centers. The 
meat supply cannot be increased rapidly, for it requires time and 
extensive acreage. W^e cannot spare the land, for land in potatoes 
produces nearly forty times as much fool value as medium grass 
land. One acre yields six tons of potatoes or one hundred pounds 
of meat. 

No increase in the meat supply but an increase in the de- 
mands from abroad means that strict economy in meats is the role for 
each to play to help zvin the war. 

THE PROBLEM 

1. To conserve the meat supply. 

2. To save the meats best for export for the allies and our 
own soldiers. 

3. To utilize in the best way the perishable meats and those 
not requisitioned by the government. 

4. To vary and extend the consumption and to prevent waste 
of all meats and fats. 

WAYS TO SOLVE IT 

1. See meat before buying it. Telephone orders often prove 
disappointing. 

2. If previously you have used expensive cuts, steaks, and 
roasts from heavy beef, use these sparingly now. A demand for only 
the cheaper cuts from the rich, the well-to-do, and the poor, causes a 
rise in price o^f cheap meats. Equalize the demand. 

3. Save all meat trimmings, gristle, bones, left overs from 
choice cuts, and cook in stews and soups as tougher cuts of meat are 
used. The tireless cooker helps here. 






<^ 



i 



A^ 



4. Learn the value of small quantities of meat. Use it as a 
flavor to a dish rather than as the main ingredient. Stews and cas- 
serole dishes are meat extenders as they give meat flavor to a larger 
amount of food ; they conserve the meat juices and all the nutrients 
of the vegetables; and they save dishes by cooking meat and 
vegetables together. Vary them by using different meats and vege- 
tables. • Meats with gravy go farther and increase the amount of 
potatoes used. Omit bread at dinner. 

5. Use more lamb and mutton as you use fish to save beef. 

6. Use the shoulder and sides of pork, any uncured cuts, and 
ground sausage. Use ham occasionally. 

7. Buy only triangular pieces of bacon and trimmings from the 
army bacon. The boys over there get the square cut. Bacon is the 
ideal army meat ration. It is fuel for fighting. 

8. Save all fats — chicken, beef, mutton, pork; render and 
clarify them. Use them in frying, in spice cakes, cookies, and bread- 
making. Fats are valuable not only for food for the soldier but as 
the source of glycerine used in explosives. 

POSSIBILITIES IN MEAT COOKERY 

Meat Cooked to Furnish Gravies and Sauces 

Swiss steak Pot roast 

Beef a la mode Braised tongue 

Meat Extenders 

Shepherd's pie Croquettes 

Tamale pie L'mb stew 

Hash Scrapple 

Meats Which Should be Used More Often 

Liver Creamed calves' brains 

Tripe Chipped beef 

Stuffed beef heart Sausage 

Minced kidneys 

RECIPES 
Swiss Steak 
Use round steak cut one to one and one-half inches thick. Cut off fat 
from the sides of the meat and put in frying pan to try out. Season meat 
with salt and pepper and place on a meat board. Dredge thoroly with flour 
on one side and cut this in by pounding with the edge of a plate or saucer. 
Turn meat and repeat. Brown a few slices of onion in the frying pan with 
the fat, then add the floured meat. Brown on each side. Cover with water 
and simmer slowly two hours or put in oven and continue slow cooking. 
Thicken the liquid for gravy. 



Beef a la Mode 

Take a two pound rump cut and remove bone (bone may be used for soup). 
Sear meat in a little fat to improve flavor. Put it in boiling salted water so 
that it is covered ; simmer until tender ; keep covered with water. When 
tender, draw off part of broth and use for gravy. Then put in one-half sweet 
pepper chopped fine, one carrot cubed, one can tomatoes, and allow to cook 
down until brown and serve with sauce that covers meat. 

Casserole or Pot Roast 

Brown a piece of rump of beef in a little fat. Place in casserole with 
chopped carrot, turnip, onion, and celery. Add water to cover and cook 
three hours in hot oven, basting if necessary. The roast may be cooked in a 
pot on top of the stove for part of the time and then transferred to the 
oven when potatoes are added. Serve with thickened gravy. 

Braised Tongue 

I beef tongue Ys cup celery, diced 

V2 cup carrots, diced • i sprig parsley 

]/3 cup onion, diced V2 cup peas 

Cook tongue slowly in water for two liours. Take out and remove skin. 
Place in baking dish with vegetables. Add four cups of sauce. Cover close- 
ly and bake two hours, turning after first hour. If canned peas are used, do 
not add at first with uncooked vegetables. 

Sauce for Tongue 

Brown one-fourth cup butter or other fat. Add one-fourth cup 
corn flour or other substitute flour and stir till well browned. Add gradually 
four cups of hot water in which tongue was cooked. Season with salt and 
pepper and one teaspoon of Worcestershire Sauce if desired. 

Shepherd's Pie 

^ cup cold meat — lamb or beef 3 tablespoons drippings 

1 cup or more mashed potato 3 tablespoons flour 

Salt I pint liquid — water or stock 

Pepper Few drops of onion juice 

Cut meat in small pieces; season. Melt fat. add flour, and gradually 
the liquid, stirring constantly till it boils. Gravy can be used and flour 
omitted. Add meat and pour in baking dish or casserole. Cover with mashed 
potato and brown in oven. 

Tamale Pie 

2 cups corn meal i pound liamburger or lamb 
2V^ teaspoons salt 2 cups tomatoes 

6 cups boiling water V2 teaspoon cayenne pepper or 

I onion i small, chopped sweet pepper 

I tablespoon fat i teaspoon salt 

Make mush by stirring corn meal into boiling salted water. Cook in a 
double boiler or fireless cooker one and one-half hours. Brown onion in 
fat, add meat, and stir until red color disappears. Add tomato, pepper, and 

4 



£alL Grease a baking dish ; put in a layer of mush, then the seasoned meat, 
then another layer of mush on top. Bake thirty minutes. 

Meat Hash 

Combine equal quantities of cold, chopped boiled potatoes and chopped 
meat containing some fat. Season with salt and pepper, and moisten with 
meat stock, gravy, or milk. Spread evenly in a hot greased frying pan. Heat 
slowly until brown underneath. Hash may also be baked. Vary recipe by 
adding vegetables, such as cooked beets. 

Baked Croquettes and Meat Loaf 

Meat may be combined with an equal amount of mashed potato or in 
the proportion of one-third meat and two-thirds potato. Various seasonings, 
such as onion and celery salt, may be added. Moisten with milk or water ; 
add egg slightly beaten. Bake in a bread tin or shape as croquettes. If 
croquettes are fried in deep fat, shape and roll in egg and crumbs. 

Lamb Stew 

Wipe and cut in pieces two pounds of lamb from shoulder, flank, or 
breast. Cover in kettle with boiling water, cook slowly till tender, about two 
hours. Add diced vegetables — carrot, turnip, and slices of onion — after cook- 
ing one and one-half hours. Twenty or twenty-five minutes before serving, 
add potato cut in small pieces. Make a thickening of three tablespoonsful of 
flour and cold water to form a smooth paste and add to stew, stirring till it 
boils. Serve with more potatoes than usual and omit dumplings. 

Casserole of Lamb 

Line a casserole, slightly greased, with steamed rice. Fill center with 
cooked m.utton finely chopped. Season highly with salt, pepper, celery salt, 
and onion juice. Cover with rice. Heat in oven with casserole covered. If 
desired to have firm enough to turn out on a platter, remove cover and brown. 
Serve with tomato sauce. If served in the casserole, add water, stock, or 
gravy to mutton and rice when filling dish. Tomatoes may also be added 
instead of using them as a sauce. 

Scrapple 

7 cups water 3 teaspoons salt 

2^ cups cornmeal 2 cups chopped meat 

Make a mush of cornmeal. Add meat and cook two to thrcf liours 
in a double boiler or fireless cooker. Put in a mold to cool. Slice and 
saute in hot fat. Cracklings from fat rendering may be used in place of 
meat. 

Sausage and Bananas 

Shape bulk sausage as croquettes or use link sausages. Cut bananas in 
two crosswise. Place in frying pan alternately with sausage. Cook slowly 
on top of stove or in oven, basting occasionally till bananas are done and 
slightly browned. 



Beef Heart 

Wash heart, remove veins and arteries. Stuff with dressing and sew or 
tie. Roll in flour, sprinkle with salt, and brown in hot fat. Place in casserole, 
add water to half cover, and cook slowly two hours. Turn once or twice 
during cooking. When done, thicken liquid and season for gravy. The 
heart may be cut in small pieces and cooked with rice or potatoes as a 
casserole dish. Other vegetables, such as onion, carrot, green pepper, celery, 
may be added. 

Dressing 

1 cup stale Victory bread crumbs • Vs teaspoon pepper 

2 tablespoons fat Few drops onion juice 
1/4 teaspoon salt %-^ cup hot water 

Calves' Brains 

Soak one hour in cold water. Remove membrane and parboil twenty 
minutes in salted water to which a little vinegar or lemon juice has been 
added. Drain and put in cold water. When cold, separate in small pieces. 
Use as sweetbreads in various ways as follows : 

1. Add chopped celery, green pepper, pimiento, and mix with mayonnaise. 
Serve on lettuce. 

2. Reheat in medium thick white sauce and serve in timbale cases or with 
mashed potato rosettes. Mushrooms may be added. 

3. Mix in a fritter batter. Fry by dropping by spoonfuls in deep fat 
or saute in greased muflfin rings arranged in a frying pan. 

Fritter Batter 

V2 cup flour V4-./3 cup milk 

I teaspoon baking powder i egg 

Vs teaspoon salt 

Minced Kidney on Toast 

Trim kidneys, removing white fat from center, cut in thin slices, dredge 
with flour, and saute with a thinly sliced onion. Other seasonings, such as 
green pepper and celery salt, may be added to the gravy. When brown, 
add one pint water or stock. Simmer gently for five minutes. More flour 
may be needed to thicken the gravy. Serve on Victory bread toast or with 
mashed potatoes. Kidneys should be cooked only a short time, or they be- 
come toughened. 

Jellied Veal 

Have a knuckle of veal divided into small pieces (bone should be sawed). 
Put in kettle and cover with boiling water. For seasonings, add onion, a bit 
of bay leaf, summer savory, thyme, and marjoram. Cook slowly until tender. 
Strain off liquid and concentrate to about one to one and one-half cups, 
depending upon the amount of meat. Separate meat from any gristle and cut 
into small pieces. Put slices of hard cooked egg in the bottom of a mold. 
Put over them a little liquid and allow to set to hold in place. Add a layer of 

6 



seasoned veal, mixed with celery and chopped parsley, alternately with a 
layer of hard cooked eggs. Press meat, pour over liquid, and chill. If 
meat containing little bone and connective tissue is used, gelatin may be added 
to liquid to insure its forming a firm loaf when chilled. 

Mutton Fat for Cooking^ 

2 parts mutton fat V2 pint whole milk to every 

I part lard 2 pounds mixed fat 

Heat mutton fat and leaf lard, which have been put thru a meat grinder, 
together in a double boiler with the milk. The fat is rendered and when 
allowed to cool, forms a cake which is removed from the surface of the 
liquid. When small amounts are rendered, the liquid may be lost thru 
evaporation. 

Savory Fat' 

I pound mutton fat i teaspoon ground thyme or 

I onion mixed herbs tied in small cloth 

I sour apple 

Heat at low temperature until apple and onion are thoroly browned. 
Strain oflf fat. This may be used in place of butter or fat in frying or on 
vegetables. 

Use of Mutton Fat 

In making gravies, it is more satisfactory to combine flour and mutton 
fat and then add the liquid than to add flour to the liquid for thickening. 
Mutton fat is useful in white sauces for combining croquette ingredients or 
in tomato sauces. 

INDIVIDUAL WEEKLY CONSUMPTION OF MEAT 

United States, 191 5, average consumption, 3^ pounds 
England and the allies, 1918, compulsory ration, 1% pounds 
Germany, 191 8, compulsory ration, jA pound 

Can we do as well as England and France? Can we, on a volun- 
tary ration, find one and one-fourth pounds of meat, not including 
fish and poultry, per person per week enough ? 

SUGGESTIONS FOR SAVING MEAT 

Buy smaller quantities 
Prepare smaller quantities 
Eat smaller quantities 

Use more milk and milk products 
Use more vegetables 
Use meat substitutes 
Use meat extenders 



^Bulletin 526, "Mutton and its value in the diet," United States Department of Agriculture. 



LIBRARY OF CONGRESS 



014 524 274 5 



REFERENCES 



Published by the United States Department of Agriculture, Washington, D. C. 

Bulletin 526; Mutton and its value in the diet 

Bulletin 391, Economical use of meat in the home 

Leaflet 5, Make a little meat go a long way 
Published by the Agricultural Experiment Station, University of Illinois, 

Urbana 

Circular 206, Essentials in the selection of beef 
Published by the State Council of Defense, 120 West Adams Street, Chicago 

Official recipe book, price ten cents 



If we don't like potato without meat at home, would we in the 
trenches? Let us be sure the soldiers have meat. 



LOYALTY Dl^.MANDS THAT WE ALL 

Save ! Loan ! Give ! Work ! Fight 

Save food ! Save fuel ! Save money ! 

We must feed the allies as well as ourselves. The ships and 
munitions factories need the coal. The Government needs the 
money. 

Loan! Loan your money to the Government. A Liberty Bond 
is a certificate of your faith in the justice of the cause for which we 
are fighting. 

Give! Give generously to relieve the sufferings of Ihe destitute 
and to add to the comforts and happiness of the victims of the war, 
and to make things as easy as possible in cam.p for our own boys. 
Give to as many of the authorized organizations and causes as you 
can. They are too numerous to mention separately, but some are 
known to us all, so 

Give to the Red Cross ! 

Give to the Army Y. M. C. A. ! 

Give to the Knights of Columbus ! 
and to all other authorized worthy organizations and movements for 
the cause. 

Work! Work in the Red Cross! Work in the field or the 
garden ! Work at whatever you can find to do to help win the war ! 

Fight! Fight if you can. It is in man's cause and God's. 



LIBRARY OF CONGRESS 



014 524 274 5 



Hollinger Corp. 
r.H ft "^ 



