^% 




*•■ * 



*"^ — 



■K^ 



'^*-. 



;§^^^^ 






*^^J' 



.*^: 



IaS 




^# ^ 






1^ • •^^r.^ 1 




rF 



.6 /^ 



^/ /y^ 









^ 



t 



^ 



. ■ . I J 

NEUFCHATEL AND CREAM CHEESE; 
FARM MANUFACTURE AND USE 

K. J. INIATHESON and F. R. CAMMACK 

Of the Dairy Division 




FARMERS' BULLETIN 960 
UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE 



Contribution from the Bureau of Animal Industry 
JOHN R. MOHLER, Chief 



Washington, D. C 



July, 1918 



Show this b ji'ei^iil "16 4 neighbor, ^ Aiditjipal cpp5rs p^iy. be obtained free from the 
Ditrisioli of PuiMicatvjJ-s, LSii»,eL<l StaSPS riei(ar?iEi*ipi of Agriculture 



WASHINQTON ; QOVERNMENT PRINTINQ OFFICIt : 1918 



NEUFCHATEL CHEESE is named after the town 
of that name in northwestern France. Cream 
cheese is usually made from milk having about 6 
per cent fat, while Neufchatel is made from ordinary 
4 per cent milk. Cream cheese is also marketed in a 
number of combinations or flavorings, a popular 
form containing pimiento peppers. 

This group of soft cheeses can be made with little 
trouble and at small expense for equipment. Al- 
though now largely produced in factories, they can 
be manufactured at home for family use. Fre- 
quently also the surplus milk of a small dealer can 
be marketed advantageously as Neufchatel, cream, 
or pimiento-cream cheese. 



While these varieties of soft cheese are highly re- 
garded, their real food value is often unappreciated. 
When served alone or in any one of a multitude of 
dishes they are palatable and appetizing as well as 
nourishing. 



NEUFCHATEL AND CREAM CHEESE: 
FARM MANUFACTURE AND USE. 



CONTENTS. 



Page. 
Chaxaeteristics of the Neufchatel group of 

cheeses 3 

The manufacture of Neufchatel and cream 

cheese 4 

Quahty of milk 4 

Clean utensils i 

Ripening the milk 4 

The use of starters 5 

Standardizing the milk 5 

Pasteurization 6 

Making t he cheese 6 

Cost of manufacture 15 

Cost of making cream cheese 15 



Cost of manufacture — Continued. 

Cost of making pimiento-oream cheese ... 16 

Cost of making Neufchatel cheese. 17 

Marketing... 17 

Returns from 100 pounds of milk 17 

Possibilities 17 

Keeping qualities of the cheese 18 

Equipment for making Neufchatel and cream 

cheese 18 

Summary of directions 23 

The use of Neufchatel and cream cheese in the 

diet 24 



CHARACTERISTICS OF THE NEUFCHATEL GROUP OF CHEESES. 

CHEESES of the Neufchatel group have been produced in the 
United States ahiiost exclusively by a very few factories whose 
methods were not readily available to the public and whose extensive 
and high-priced equipment created the mistaken notion that it is not 
practicable to make these cheeses except upon a factory scale. The 
methods of manufacture of Neufchatel and cream cheese and their 
modifications are, however, simple, and the equipment needed for 
making them in small quantities is not elaborate ; therefore an excel- 
lent opportunity is offered to produce at low cost a fresh, wholesome, 
and attractive food for home use. Since Neufchatel and cream cheese 
may be marketed upon a small scale, they often offer to dairymen an 
exceptional opportunity for the disposal of surplus milk. 

The cheeses of this group are perishable, and their selling prices are 
somewhat higher, pound for pound, than the harder cheeses. They 
are coming more and more into common use, however, because, in 
addition to their rich flavor and high nutritive value, they may be 
used with other foods to form many appetizing dishes. When 
cheeses of this group are to be sent to market, special, though inex- 
pensive, equipment is necessary in order to obtain the greatest effi- 
ciency of time and labor in molding them into marketable form. 

3 



4 FARMERS BULLETIN 960. 

An expenditure of from $10 to $25 will provide proper equipment 
for handling the cheese from several hundred pounds of milk. Such 
equipment should enable the dairyman to make and market cheese 
directly to the consumer at less cost and in fresher condition than 
that shipped from a more distant point. The fact that fresh cheese 
can be obtained readily will tend to increase its consumption. 

THE MANUFACTURE OF NEUFCHATEL AND CREAM CHEESE. 

In this bulletin the production of the Neufchatel group of cheese 
is considered from two points of view, (1) for home consumption 
and (2) for marketing on a small scale. 

QUALITY OF MILK. 

The quality of milk is the first consideration in the production of 
good Neufchatel or cream cheese. Milk which is sour or has under- 
gone any abnormal fermentation should not be used. By the use of 
fresh, unripened milk without any perceptible change in the acidity, 
the normal fermentations which are necessary for cheese of high 
quality can be controlled. Milk for cheesemaking should not be 
allowed to absorb any odors or taints, and the garlic flavor, especially, 
should be guarded against. 

CLEAN UTENSILS. 

Cleanliness of utensils is another essential in producing cheese of 
high quality. The following system is advised in washing milk and 
cheese utensils: 

1. After using, rinse with cold water. 

2. Wash with hot water to which a washing powder has been added. Always 
use a brush. 

3. Rinse in hot water at a temiierature above 150° F. 

4. Steam or immerse in boiling water for five minutes. 

.5. Do not dry the utensils with a cloth but place them in a clean place free 
from dust. 

RIPENING THE MILK. 

The cheese is made by allowing the acid and rennet, or other curd- 
ling agent, to act simultaneously upon the milk. If great care has 
been used in the production and subsequent handling of the milk, 
the cheese may be made by adding rennet and allowing the milk to 
sour normally. A rather rapid development of acid is most desirable, 
as this tends to eliminate undesirable flavors, hastens the making 
process, and prevents losses of the curd. The lack of uniformity in 
ripening often requires a more definite means of controlling the acid 
fermentation, which may be accomplished by the use of a " starter." 



NEUFCHATEL AND CEEAM CHEESE. 5 

THE USE OF STARTERS. 

A " starter " is a quantity of niilk that has soured and which con- 
tains large numbers of acid-forming bacteria. If the cheese is made 
in small quantities for home consumption, a starter is probably not 
advisable. The advantages of a starter over the natural souring are : 

1. It hastens the coaguhTtion of the milk. 

2. It suppresses undesirable fermentations that may cause excessive losses 
of fat and curd. 

3. It aids in suppressing undesirable flavors and produces more uniform 
cheese. 

A starter of Bacillus hulgm'icus may be used instead of the ordi- 
nary lactic-acid starter, but it is recommended only when there is a 
special demand for it. 

STANDARDIZING THE MILK. 

In making cream cheese for the market, milk testing about 6 per 
cent butterfat is most satisfactory. With 4 per cent milk available, 
if one-third of the quantity is run through a cream separator and the 
cream added to the remaining two-thirds, milk testing approximately 
6 per cent is obtained. If the milk tests only 3 per cent it will be 
necessary to separate one-half of the quantity and add the cream to 
the remaining half. This method gives satisfactory results for home 
manufacture, but for more extensive operations it is advisable to use 
a Babcock tester in order to standardize the milk accurately. 

The following diagram illustrates an easy method of determining 
the proportions of milk and cream of different per cent of fat needed 
to make up 6 per cent milk : 



Cream and milk on hand. 
34 per cent cream. 

4 per cent milk. 



6 per cent 
milk desired. 



Proportions to be used. 
2 parts cream. 

28 parts milk. 



The desired per cent of fat in the milk, in this case 6, is placed in 
the center of the square. At the upper left-hand corner the per 
cent of fat in the available cream is placed, in this instance 34. 
Immediately below, in the lower left-hand corner, the per cent of 
fat in the available milk is placed, which in the instance cited is 4. 
Next subtract diagonally across the square the smaller from the 
larger numbers and place the differences in the upper and lower 
right-hand corners respectively. In the upper right-hand corner 2 
represents the number of parts of 34 per cent cream, and in the lower 
right-hand corner 28 represents the number of parts of 4 per cent 
milk necessary to make 6 per cent milk. If it is desired to make up 
a definite quantity of 6 per cent milk, for example, 60 pounds, the pro- 



6 FARMERS BULLETIN" 960. 

cedure is as follows: 2 added to 28 makes a total of 30 parts of 6 per 

2 
cent milk. The quantity of 34 per cent cream necessary is —X GO, or 4 

oU 

28 
pounds, while the quantity of 4 per cent milk is ot. X 60, or 56 pounds. 

PASTEURIZATION. 

It is not always practicable to pasteurize the milk to mqke cheese 
for home use, but if the cheese is to be marketed it is very desirable 
to do so. When milk is pasteurized for cheesemaking it becomes ab- 
solutely essential to use a " starter " to obtain uniform results. It is 
advisable, also, to use the milk as soon as possible after pasteuriza- 
tion. Ordinarily, pasteurization is accomplished by heating the milk 
in a pail, can, or vat to a temperature of 145° F., and holding at that 
temperature for 30 minutes, after which it should be quickly cooled 
to 80° F. before adding the starter for ripening. The advantages of 
pasteurization are as follows: 

1. It destroys disease-producing organisms. 

2. It tends to reduce losses and increase tlie yield. 

3. It aids in eliminating undesirable flavors. 

4. Quality of cheese is more nearly uniform from day to day. 

MAKING THE CHEESE. 

The process described is identical for Neufchatel and cream cheese, 
except for a few minor differences which will be mentioned. 

Setting. — Unless otherwise noted, 30 pounds, or about 3| gallons of 
milk, is the unit used in these directions; that quantity can be handled 
conveniently in a shotgun can. For smaller quantities any enameled 
or heavily tinned pail is satisfactory. 

If a starter is added, it is advisable to use a quantity equal to 1 or 
1^ per cent of the milk; while smaller quantities may be used, the 
proportions suggested are usually the most satisfactory. 

Neufchatel is made from ordinary milk, while the cream cheese 
requires milk containing about 6 per cent of butterfat. Milk for 
Neufchatel is warmed to 80° F., and one-half pint of starter is added 
and thoroughly stirred in with a long-handled spoon or milk agitator. 
Then 8 or 10 drops of commercial liquid rennet, diluted in half a 
cupful of cold water, is added to the mixture, thoroughly stirred, 
and the can of milk set away to coagulate at 80° F. Powdered pep- 
sin, which is cheaper than rennet, may be used instead, in which case 
a quantity equal to one-half of a medium-sized pea, dissolved in a 
cupful of cold water, is used. Fresh junket tablets also may be sub- 
stituted for rennet. One tablet is dissolved in 10 tablespoonfuls of 
cold water and 3 tablespoonfuls of the solution used. For cream 
cheese a slightly larger quantity of the curdling agent is desirable. 



NEUFCHATEL AND CREAM CHEESE. 



For cream cheese the milk is warmed to 83° F., the process being 
the same in other respects. When starter is not used in making 
either kind of cheese, the process is unchanged except, that after 
thoroughly stirring the milk it is set away, at the temperature de- 
scribed, for several hours before the rennet or other curdling agent is 

added. 

After the milk has been set away to coagulate it should be kept as 
nearly as possible at the same temperature. Under normal condi- 
tions, after about 15 or 18 hours, about one-half inch of whey collects 
upon the surface of 
the curd oi coagu- 
lum; on the top of 
the whey a scum of 
fine white curd par- 
ticles sometimes col- 
lects. This forma- 
tion of whey indi- 
cates a normal fer- 
mentation. W h e n 
the fermentation is 
abnormal, the coag- 
ulum is more or less 
convex, puffed, or 
inflated, and there is 
little, if any, whey 
on the surface. 

A gassy fermenta- 
tion of the curd does 
not necessarily ren- 
der a cheese unfit for 
consumption ; but 
for best results, both 
as to flavor and 
economy in han- 
dling, that condition 
should be prevented. 
Under ideal conditions the milk usually begins to coagulate in the 
course of a few hours, but is allowed to stand undisturbed for from 
15 to 18 hours. It is advisable to set it so that the curdling occurs 
during the night, and if the cans are not provided w^ith covers they 
should be covered with a close-meshed cheesecloth in order to exclude 
dirt. 

Draining. — After the setting period, when whey has collected upon 
the surface of the coagulum, or when the milk is firmly clabbered, the 
contents of the can or pail are poured upon a strong drain cloth. 
(See fig. 1.) The can may be shaken slightly before pouring, in order 




Fig. 1. — Pouring the curd into the drain cloth. 



8 



FARMEES BULLETIN 960. 



to loosen any cnrd ^Yhicl^ has a tendency to adhere to the sides or 
bottom. Unbleached cotton sheeting, which can be obtained in yard 
widths, has proved to be the most satisfactor}^ material for drain 
cloths. For a small-scale operation the cloth may be thrown over a 
pail, can, or wash boiler and the ends tied securely about the draining 
receptacle. The curd or coagulum should remain undisturbed in the 
cloth for 3 or 4 hours, after which it should be worked toward the 
center of the cloth in-order to hasten the draining and get it in better 

condition for han- 
dling. Drainage is 
allowed to continue 
until most of the 
visible whey has es- 
caped and the curd 
appears rather dry 
as compared with its 
former mushy con- 
dition. Then the 
four corners of the 
cloth should be 
drawn diagonally 
across and tied. For 
home consumption, 
and especially when 
it is not cooled, the 
curd should be al- 
lowed to drain for a 
longer time before 
pressing. 

Cooling the curd. — ■ 
While the cooling of 
the curd is very de- 
sirable, it is not ab- 
solutely necessary. 
Tlje object of cool- 
ing is to facilitate the more rapid expulsion of whey .during pressing. 
Cooling also seems to hardp the curd so that it does not pass so 
readily into the meshes of the drain cloth and thereby interfere with 
and retard the expulsion of the whey. The bags of curd are placed 
on ice, or cracked ice is placed about them and left for a few hours. 
Pressing. — After cooling, several bags of the curd are piled to- 
gether between two boards and a weight of 50 pounds placed on top. 
(See fig. 2.) Frequent rearrangement of the bags will hasten the 
process. After this weight has been left on the cheese overnight, 
the curd should be in flat cakes. For Neufchatel it is preferable 




Fig. 2. — An improvised cheese press. 



NEUFCHATEL AND CREAM CHEESE, 9 

to press the curd from 30 pounds of milk until the pressed curd 
weighs 4:^2 pounds, while for cream cheese it should weigh about 5^ 
pounds. Special care should be taken in determining the yield of 
cheese in order to obtain a uniform quality from day to day, which 
can be done bj" weighing the curd. The manner and length of time 
of pressing determines, in a large measure, the texture of the cheese. 
By using a screw 
press the curd may 
become too dry and 
gummy, but under 
ordinary conditions 
there is little danger 
if improvised equip- 
ment is used. (See 
lig. 3.) ^ 

Woilhif/ (ind saJt- 
hig.- — After having 
been properly 
pressed the cakes of 
curd are salted and 
worked with a po- 
tato masher or but- 
terworker, or rur 
thro u g h a f ooc 
chopper to produce 
a smooth, buttery 
consistence. 

Fine, dry salt is 
sprinkled over the 
curd at the rate of 
about 2 or 2-i- ounces 
to 10 pounds of 
curd, or about two 
level tablespoonfuls 
to the curd from 30 
pounds of milk. 
(See fig. -i.) The 
quantity of salt may be varied to suit the individual taste ; the quanti- 
ties recommended, however, usually give the best satisfaction. If the 
curd is worked with a potato masher the addition of salt aids in 
obtaining the projoer smoothness of the cheese. 

"When cheese is made for home consumption it may be placed m 
a glazed crock or porcelain dish immediately after salting and held 
53801°— IS— Bull. 960 2 




Fig. 3. — A screw press. 



10 



FARMERS BULLETIN 960. 



at a temperature as near 50° F. as possible until consumed. Under 
favorable conditions it will keep in good condition for from 6 to 
12 days. When cheese is kept a few clays at a temperature of 60° 
to 70° F., it will become disagreeably sour. It is most palatable 






Fig. 4. — Salting and working the cheese. 

immediately after it is made, for then it is fresh, soft, and sweet. 
When very cold, or after having been kept for some time, it does not 
have so fine a flavor. 

C omhiTiatioTis with Neufchdtel and cream cheeses. — Finely chopped 
pimiento peppers may be mixed with either' Neufchatel or cream 



NEUFCHATEL AND CREAM CHEESE. 11 

cheese at the time of salting. Such cheese has a mild though pro- 
nounced flavor and is very popular for sandwiches and salads. The 
pimientos seem to have a certain preservative effect and tend to 
cover up " off flavors " that may develop. About 1 pound of the 
chopped pimientos is added to 12 pounds of cheese, or about one- 
half pound for the cheese from 30 pounds of milk. 

While there are numerous other cream -cheese combinations, there 
are two that are worthy of especial note — olive-pimiento cream and 
Roquefort cream cheese. Both of these flavoring ingredients should 
be added at the rate of 1 part to 10 parts of cream cheese. When 
Roquefort cheese is uniformly incorporated with cream cheese it 
gives to the combination a rich and pleasing flavor very similar to 
Roquefort cheese, though milder. 

Molding. — Cheese for home consumption need not be molded. 
When marketed a special device is necessary in order to shape the 
cheese into a commercial package. Neufchatel, cream, and pimiento 
cheeses require a special style of package. While there are numerous 
devices for molding, many of them are not suited for meeting market 
demands. As a result of considerable experimenting the attach- 
ments described below were devised to fit the ordinary food chopper 
and proved to be very satisfactory for handling the several kinds 
of cheese. 

For molding small quantities of cheese the following equipment is 
desirable: (See figs. 8 to 12.) 

1. A food chopper. 

2. A hopper. 

3. Two molding attachments for chopper. 

4. A cheese conveyer. 

5. A cheese cutter. 

When used for molding, both the knives and the plate should be 
removed from the chopper ; otherwise the cheese will go through with 
great difficulty. The cheese hopper is a boxlike arrangement clamped 
to the top of the food chopper to prevent the scattering of particles 
of cheese upon the worktable. The cheese is poured into the hopper 
at short intervals, since it is not advisable to keep the hopper more 
than half full, or the feed screw will not force the cheese so readily 
through the hopper. If the hopper is full the cheese may become 
too " gummy " and will not only be difficult to force through the chop- 
per, but will adhere to the long-handled spoon used to push the lumps 
of curd into the machine. It is advisable to use a spoon in order to 
keep one corner of the hopper free of the cheese and, by allowing 
the escape of air, facilitate the grinding of the cheese. 

The lips of the molding attachment are fastened to the chopper 
by means of a ring. The attachment for molding Neufchatel cheese 
is cylindrical and is about 1^ inches in diameter at its delivery end. 



12 



FARMEES BULLETIN 960. 



The cheese, forced tliioiigh this attachment, comes out in the form 
of a roll or cylinder. 

Pimiento cheese is forced into a special glass jar smaller than a 
jelly glass or a paraffined wood-fiber container held horizontally over 
the end of the Xeufchatel attachment so that the cheese reaches the 
end of the container and flattens out without difficulty. (See fig. 5.) 
If the pimiento cheese is to be used in a short time, the wood-fiber 
containers are especially recommended, as they are less expensive 
than glass jars. If the cheese is marketed directly to the consumer, 
the glass jars may be returned and used again. 




Fig. 5. — Filling jars with pimiento-cream cheese. 

The attachment for cream cheese is rectangular at its delivery end. 
B}" its use the cheese may be molded into smooth, ribbonlike bands 
which, as in the case of Xeufchatel cheese, ma}'^ be cut with a Avire 
into pieces of the desired size. 

The cheese is delivered from the attachment on a canvas conveyer, 
sui^ported b}' rollers, which turn with sufficient friction to cause the 
plastic curd to be firmly pressed together as the cheese is automati- 
call}?^ pushed forward. (See fig. 6.) The first cheese that passes 
through the attachment often "frills"; that is, it presents an irregu- 
lar surface, but later the difficultv be;'omes loss marked, and the 



NEUFCHATEL AND CREAM CHEESE. 



13 



cheese comes out with a surface well defined and smooth. " Frill- 
ing " occurs more often in molding cream cheese than in Neuf chatel. 

Cutting the cheese. — Cream cheese and Xeufchatel cheese may be 
cut into cakes of the desired size by means of fine wires drawn over a 
I'ectangular-shaped framework. (See fig. 11.) The use of this simple 
equipment makes it possible to cut half a dozen cheeses simul- 
taneously and prevents delay, so that one person may do the grind- 
ing while another cuts and wraps the cakes. 

Wrapping the cheese. — After cutting the cakes they are slowly 
carried along by the carrier and eventually fall upon a flat form 
upon which tin-foil wrapping papers are laid. These papers may be 




nM 



Fu,. •;. — M<il(iiug aud wrapping cream cheese. 

held in place by a cleat or clamp. In many cases it is more con- 
venient to take the cheese directly from the carrier, but when the 
person who does the wrapping is kept very busy the platform may 
serve as a place where several cakes may accumulate, thus allowing 
the grinding operations to be continued. While one person is en- 
gaged in filling the hopper and molding the cheese another is kept 
l)usy cutting and wrapping. In wrapping, the cheese is placed in 
the center of the paper, each side of the paper folded over, and the 
ends turned down, to coAer the cheese completely. (See fig. 10.) 

Yield. — One hundred pounds of milk containing 4 per cent fat 
should yield from 11 to 16 pounds of Xeufchatel cheese, while 6 
per cent milk should give an average yield of from 17 to 19 pounds 



14 



FARMERS BULLETIN 960. 



of cream cheese. With milk testing less than the above, a smaller 
yield and a lower grade of cheese will be obtained. Although there 
may be slight seasonal fluctuations in the solids of milk, yet for the 
most part the yield of cheese, other conditions being equal, is almost 
directly proportional to the per cent of fat. There may be varia- 
tions in yield of cheese, however, due to mechanical factors, such as 
longer pressing. 

Xeufchatel cheese is sometimes made from skim milk, in which 
case it is used for cooking and baking purposes. Commercially, 
there are other grades of Xeufchatel made from one-half or two- 
thirds skim milk. Such cheeses are labeled as made from " partially 
skimmed milk "' or '' skimmed milk "" as the case may be. 




Fig. 7. — Types of packages. 

Packages. — Tin-foil or alummum-foil wrapping paper which has 
a parchment paper inside is generally used in wrapping cream and 
Neufchatel cheeses, since it gives each package a bright, uniform, and 
attractive appearance. (See fig. 7.) Great care should be taken to 
wrap each cake neatly and securely in order to exclude the air as 
much as possible. Any " frilling " or other irregularities may be 
corrected by drawing the foil tightly about the cheese. Careful and 
skillful wrapping tends to increase the length of time the cheese is 
salable. The 3'ellow or amber-colored mold which often spreads 
over the cheese should be prevented as much as possible, not because 
it may render the food harmful or poisonous, but because it causes 
deterioration and renders the cheese less appetizing. 

The standard Neufchatel package is cylindrical, about 1^ inches 
in diameter bv 2^ inches long, and weighs about 2^ ounces net. 



NEUFCHATEL AND CREAM CHEESE. 15 

Standard packages of cream clieese are about 3 by 2 inches and 
1 inch thick, and have a net weight of about 3 ounces. The pimiento 
cheese is marketed in 3 or 4 ounce ghiss jars, each packed full and 
covered with a disk of paraffined paper and screw cap. 

COST OF MANUFACTURE. 

When made upon a small scale the cost of the various items of 
making these kinds of cheese for market purposes is difficult to as- 
certain. The cost of manufacturing them on a farm scale would 
probably be quite different from the cost of manufacturing them 
on a factory scale. The figures given are based upon the use of 
200 pounds of 4 per cent milk, valued at $2.40 a hundredweight, 
which is made into cheese twice weekly with equipment costing about 
$25. The cost of the equipment depends, of course, upon that 
already available and that which may readilj^ be improvised. Under 
average conditions the approximate cost of the various items of ex- 
pense involved in making ihe three kinds of cheese is enumerated 
as follows: 

COST OF MAKING CREAM CHEESE. 

With 200 pounds of 4 per cent milk a dairyman should be able to 
make 24 pounds of cream cheese, and with the skim milk 12 pounds 
of cottage cheese in addition. At present cream cheese is marketed 
in 3-ounce packages. Figuring conservatively, the yield from 200 
pounds of milk, then, would be about 120 packages of cream cheese 
and 12 pounds of cottage cheese. Assigning a value of 6 cents a 
pound for the latter, and subtracting the amount received for it, 
the cost of the milk used for cream cheese would be reduced from 
$4.80 to $4.08. The cost of milk for each package of cream cheese, 
then, would be $0,034. 

The cost of special equipment necessary for handling the cheese 
may be proportioned as follows : 

1 food chopper ^8. 50 

6 shotgun cans ,5. lo 

^ drain racks 4. 50 

2 mokling attachments 2. 00 

1 carrier 1. 25 

1 thermometer . 60 

1 liopper 1 . 50 

1 cheese cutter L .50 

6 yards of cloth for draining . 75 

1 pail . 85 

1 agitator or stirrer-^ .25 

2 spoons, long-handled . 20 

25.00 



16 FAEMEES BULLETIN 960. 

A good food chopper should last 10 years, a drain rack 5 years, 
and a shotgun can about 3 years. Figuring a yearly depreciation 
of about 20 per cent, the depreciation charges would be $5. The 
interest at 6 per cent on the investment would be $1.50, and the in- 
terest and depreciation charges per cheese would be 1/12000 of $6.50, 
or $0.00054. 

The labor would require half an hour to pasteurize the milk, about 
IJ hours to make the cheese, and another half hour to mold it, or 
about 2^ hours, actual time for the various operations. However, 
while in pressing it would require but a few minutes to handle the 
cheetSe, the entire pressing operations would extend over several hours. 
It is assumed, therefore, that the time not used in working with the 
cheese could be utilized in some other manner. The total labor charge 
would be 50 cents, figuring labor at 20 cents an hour. The labor 
charges would then be 1/120X50, or $0.00116 for each cheese. 

Figuring the cost of pasteurization and separation as 1 cent a 
gallon, the charge for each cheese would be $0.00192. It would 
require about 50 pounds of ice for the 24 pounds of cheese, which 
would make the ice cost about $0.00016. Figuring the rennet at $10 
a gallon and the salt at 1 cent a pound, the charge would be $0.0000 "^», 
and $0,004 for tin foil at 90 cents a pound : 

Milk - $0.03400 

Interest and depreciation . 00054 

Labor .00416 

Pasteurization and separation . 00192 

Ice - .00016 

Salt and rennet .00005 

Tin-foil wrapping paper — . . 00400 

Per cheese 0. 04483 

COST OF MAKING PIMIENTO-CREAM CHEESE. 

Pimiento-cream cheese is made practically the same as cream 
cheese, with the single exception that pimiento peppers are added. 
The cheese is usually marketed in 4-ounce glass jars, which may be 
obtained in gross lots for about 2 cents each. Pimiento peppers cos# 
about 40 cents a pound and are added to the cheese at the rate of 
1. pound to from 10 to 20 pounds of curd, as some people prefer a 
higher proportion of the peppers. The figures given are on the 
basis of 1 pound of peppers to 12 pounds of cheese. The labor charge 
will be somewhat greater for pimiento cheese than for cream cheese; 
the labor charges are figured at 3^ hours instead of 2J, as in the case 
of cream cheese. There would then be a yield of 26 pounds of cheese, 
costing $4.08. A^Hien pimiento cheese is produced under the condi- 
tions outlined the cost for each jar may be summarized as follows: 



NEUFCHATEL AND CEEAM CHEESE. 17 

Milk $0.03457 

Interest anil depreciation , .00055 

Labor .00593 

Pasteui-ization and separation .00196 

ice ^ . 00016 

Salt and rennet .00005 

Glass jar ^ . 02000 

Peppers . 006GG 

Per jar . 06988 

COST OF MAKING NEUFCHATEL CHEESE. 

Figuring a yield of 15 pounds of cheese per 100 pounds of milk 
and each package weighing 2^ ounces, the cost of making one 
Xeufchatel cheese may be summarized as follo^\'s : 

Milk $0. 02500 

Depreciation and interest ^ .00033 

Ice . 00013 

Labor . 00260 

Pasteurization . 00120 

Salt and rennet .00005 

Tin-foil wra))pins paper .00400 

Per cheese . 03331 

MARKETING. 

Xeufchatel, cream, and pimiento-cream cheeses are sold by the box. 
The wholesale price of a cheese is usuall}^ 2 or 3 cents less than the 
retail price. Cream cheese retails for about 15 cents a package, 
Xeufchatel for 7 cents, and pimiento cream at 15 cents a jar. 

RETURNS FROM 100 POUNDS OF MILK. 

Upon the basis of the calculated cost of manufacturing and at 
current prices for the cheese, the following returns should be ob- 
tained per 100 pounds of 4 per cent milk, viz, for cream cheese $9, 
for Xeufchatel $8.40, and for pimiento cream $8.85. After subtract- 
ing the estimated cost of making the cheese from 4 per cent milk, 
valued at $2.40 a hundredweight, there should be a net profit of $6.14 
for cream cheese, $6.22 for Xeufchatel. and $4.45 for pimiento cream. 
Rent and cost of marketing are not considered. 

POSSIBILITIES. 

The desirability of making these varieties of cheese upon a small 
scale and successfully marketing them depends upon the skill of the 
maker and his ability to obtain a direct and ready market for his 
product. When cheese is made and delivered once or twice a Aveek, a 
dairyman is in far better position to serve the public by selling a 
perfectlv fresh product than the larger manufacturers, working at a 

.53301°— 18— Bull. 960 3 



18 farmers' bulletin 960. 

distance, who are obliged to dispose of their cheese several days after 
it is made, and who must pay the additional expense of boxing and 
shipping. If the cheese is marketed directly upon a small scale it is 
not necessary to put it into the flat boxes, as is the case if it is han- 
dled commercially. The cheeses may be disposed of satisfactorily by 
placing them in one large box and piling one cheese upon another. 
When cheese of this type is delivered upon a milk route the use of a 
special box provided with two compartments, one for ice and the 
other for cheese, is advisable during the warm periods of the year. 
Pimiento-cream cheese, because of its keeping quality, is particularly 
adaptable to small-scale operations. When sold in glass jars it is 
sold as readily as the product of the larger manufacturers. With a 
direct outlet, arrangements may be made to use the jars again and 
thereby reduce the cost of marketing. 

When suitably situated it should be practicable for many dairymen 
to supply cheese to a neighboring town at good prices for their milk 
and extra trouble. It should be especially feasible for the milk dealer 
to dispose of his surplus milk in the form of cheese; in fact, in some 
cases for some of these kinds of soft cheese he would receive as much 
as or more than for the milk. By beginning in a small way the milk 
dealer should be able to develop a trade in fancy cheeses, such as 
cottage, Neufchatel, cream, and pimiento cream, and by selling direct 
to the consumer he could compete successfully with larger manufac- 
turers. 

KEEPING QUALITIES OF THE CHEESE. 

When wrapped in foil and put into a cold place immediately after 
making, cream and Neufchatel cheeses should keep from 6 to 12 
days without developing objectionable flavors; usually cream cheese 
seems to keep somewhat better than Neufchatel. If pimiento-cream 
cheese is placed in the customary jars and held at 50° F. or below, it 
should be still palatable at the end of a month. These products de- 
velop a sourish taste rather quickly when held at a high tempera- 
ture. The temperature, therefore, is by far the most important fac- 
tor concerned in regulating the keeping qualities of the cheese. 
There may be considerable variation in both the salt and water con- 
tent of the cheese without causing much deterioration. 

EQUIPMENT FOR MAKING NEUFCHATEL AND CREAM CHEESES. 

Little equipment is needed for making these cheeses for home con- 
sumption, and many satisfactory substitutes may be found for that 
mentioned. "V^Tien the cheese is marketed on a large scale a greater 
outlay is desirable in order to handle it efficiently. 

Floating dairy thermometer. — The use of a reliable and accurate 
thermometer is imperative if uniform results are to be obtained. A 



NEUFCHATEL AND CREAM CHEESE. 19 

thermometer of this kind is not expensive, and when not in use 
shoukl always be kept in tlie case. 

Starter hottles. — Pint milk bottles, which may be covered with 
glass tumblers, are needed for holding the starter, although the size 
of the containers depends, of course, upon the quantity of cheese 
made. Pint fruit jars also can be used; and may be covered with 
bowls. 

Shotgun cans. — These cans are usually 9 inches in diameter, 20 
inches high, and hold about 4 gallons of milk. For work on a small 
scale a 10-quart, heavily tinned or enameled pail may be used satis- 
factorily. 

Rennet and feys'in. — Commercial liquid rennet and powdered pep- 
sin have been found to be satisfactory curdling agents. Fresh junket 
tablets also j)roduce good results. 

Milk agitator. — A stirrer is desirable to cause a uniform distribu- 
tion of rennet oi" starter and to aid in preventing a too rapid rising 
of the cream. A long-handled spoon may be used if only a small 
quantity of cheese is made. 

Draining rack. — The rack shown in figure 1 is rectangular, 13 
inches wide, 36 inches long, and 10 inches deep. The corner posts 
extend 1| inches beyond the strips at top and bottom, with the top 
rounded, so that a ring may fit over them. The bottom slats fit 
loosely into notches and are removable for washing purposes. The 
materials required are 4 corner posts 1| by IJ by 10 inches, 9 strips 1 
by § by 36 inches, and 6 strips 1 by f by 12^ inches, notched to receive 
bottom slats, all made of pine. A cloth is fastened upon each frame 
and the contents of one can poured upon each cloth. For small- 
scale operations an orange crate or a boiler or pail may serve the 
same purpose. 

Drain cloth. — Unbleached cotton sheeting is recommended for this 
purpose. A fine-meshed cloth gives strength and aids in preventing 
losses of fat and casein. The size of the cloth depends upon the 
nature of the draining rack. Each cloth shoukl be 45 inches long 
and a j^ard wide, with the ends hemmed. After use each should be 
quickly and carefully washed and dried in order to increase the 
period of its usefulness. 

Press. — If a screw press is available, its use is to be recommended. 
A 50 or 60 pound weight, such as a can of water or bucket of stones, 
left upon the curd overnight usually proves to be satisfactory. (See 
figs. 2 and 3.) 

Curd toorker. — For small-scale operations a bread mixer or a 
potato masher may be used to give the curd proper consistence and 
to incorporate the salt. When working on a larger scale a butter- 
worker or food chopper will serve the same purpose. 



20 



farmers' bulletin 960. 



Food cho'p'peT. — A food chopper with special attachments and a 
hopper are essential for molding the cheese into the desired forms. 
Depending upon the quantity of cheese handled, satisfactory food 
choppers maj^ be obtained in three sizes, costing about $2, $5, and 
$8.50. (See fig. 8.) The smaller machines may be used in handling 
Xeufchatel and pimiento-cream cheese, but cream cheese requires the 
large size for making the customarj^ flat packages. The large machine 
is to be recommended if the weekly output of cheese amounts to a 
few hundred pounds, although the medium-sized machine would 
2)robably do the work as effectively, only more slowly and with more 
labor. 

Cheese hopper. — The hopper consists of an open box 3 inches deep, 
made of maple, Avith sides sloping outward about half an inch. The 




Fig. S. — Grinding and molding equipment. 

box has a hole in the bottom 3^ b}'^ 3g inches. To the bottom of the 
box a board five-eighths of an inch thick is screwed, which has a hole 
corresponding to that of the box. The hopper is fastened to the 
food chopper by means of a beveled strip of wood and button, as 
indicated in figure 9. The base of the box will probably have to be 
grooved in order to allow the Avheel to turn without friction. The 
materials required are (1) two quadrangular-shaped pieces of wood 3 
inches high, five-eighths of an inch in thickness, and whose tops meas- 
ure 9f inches and the bottoms 8 inches; (2) two pieces of similar 
shape, except that the tops measure 11^ inches and the bases 10| 
inches; (3) one piece 10| inches long, 10^ inches wide, and three-quar- 
ters of an inch thick; (4) one piece 9| inches long, 7 inches wide, and 
three-quarters of an inch thick: and (5) one piece 7 inches long, 4f 
inches wide, and five-eighths of an inch thick. 



NEUFGHATEL AND CREAM CHEESE, 



21 



NeufcMtel attachment. — The attachment for molding Neufchatel 
and pimiento-cream cheeses consists of a tin form having a conical 
shape with a tube attached. The cone has a 2|-inch base which 
gradually tapers down 
to a tube whose diam- 
eter is 1^ inches. 
(See fig. 10.) The 
distance from the base 
of the cone to the tube 
attached is 3^ inches: 
the tube is about 5 
inches long. A verti- 
cal lip about one-quar- 
ter of an inch across 
makes it possible to 
connect the tube to 
the food chopper; the 
attachment fits into 
the ring of the chop- 
per. 

Creain-cheese attach- 
ment. — The cream- 
cheese attachment con- 
sists of a ring to which a rectangular-shaped molding tube is soldered. 
(See fig. 10.) . The base of the tube is 2^ inches wide and fifteen- 




FiG. 9. 



-Under view of cheese hopper, showiuj 
attachment. 



method of 




Fig. 10. — Molding attachments for Neufchatel and cream cheese. 

sixteenths of an inch thick. The delivery end of the tube, which is 2-J- 
inches wide and three-quarters of an inch thick, is cut back one- 
third of an inch at each corner and V-shaped pieces of tin removed. 



22 



FARMEES BULLETIN 960. 



The lips of the tube are then drawn together until there is about one- 
sixteenth of an inch of free space at each corner. 

Belt conveyer. — The belt conveyer used in removing the cheese as 
it leaves the attachment is .shown in fig. 11. It is a rectangular- 
shaped box, 20 inches long, 6 inches wide, and 4f inches deep, with 
the ends and top removed. Five bearings fit into the notches on one 
side and holes on the other side in two strips of iron fastened to the 
upper edges of the two open ends of the box. A 3i-inch canvas belt 
runs snugly though not tightly upon the rollers. The materials re- 
quired are two pieces of maple 4f inches wide, one-half inch thick and 
20 inches long ; four oak rollers 4f inches long and If inches in diam- 
eter; one oak roller 4f inches long and 1^ inches in diameter. The 
rollers have a one-sixteenth-inch clearance and are beveled one-eighth 
of an inch from bearing to outer face. In addition, two 20-inch stri])s 




Belt convej'er. 



of galvanized iron 1 inch wide and one-eighth of an inch thick are 
needed. In both ends of one of these strips of iron there are four 
outward-slanting notches which are one-half inch deep and one-eighth 
inch wide, and evenly spaced between the ends there are three addi- 
tional vertical notches of the same size. There are 11 one-eighth-inch 
hojes in the second iron strip, corresponding to, parallel with, and of 
the same height as the bottom of the notches of the first strip. The 
boards and strips of iron are joined together by means of screws. 

Cheese cutter. — A cheese cutter consists of a rectangular frame- 
w^ork of poplar over which 7 fine wires are drawn. (See fig. 12.) 
The wires are fastened by means of iron pegs or screws to the outer 
edge of two half-inch strips 15 inches long. The strips are 5 inches 
apart, parallel, and are supported by 3 vertical pieces of wood 
5 inches long, 3 inches wide, and one-half inch thick. Each of these 



NEUFCHATEL AND CREAM CHEESE. 



23 



supports is hollowed out in order to give plenty of space for cutting 
the cheese. The vertical supports are held in place by means of a 
single flat strip 13f inches long, seven -eighths inch wide, and one- 
quarter inch thick. The wires are placed 2| inches apart and the 
supports 6f inches apart. All connections are made wdth 1-inch 
screws. 

Tin-foil paper. — Tin foil covered with parchment paper is gen- 
erally used to wrap the cheese (cream or Neufchatel), although of late 
aluminum foil has been used quite extensively. The dimensions of 
the foil are 4^ by 6 inches, and it is purchased by the pound. 




Pig. 12. — Cheese cutter. 



SUMMARY OF DIRECTIONS. 



The following outline for making the Neufchatel group of cheeses 
is based on 30 pounds or 3-J gallons of milk. 

Except as noted, the process is the same for Neufchatel as for 
cream cheese. For Neufchatel cheese use whole milk that tests 4 per 
cent, and for cream cheese use milk standardized to 6 per cent. 

If it is desired to pasteurize, heat the milk to 145° F., hold at that 
temperature for 30 minutes, then cool to 80° F. for Neufchatel and 
83° F. for cream cheese. If the milk is pasteurized, a starter must 
be added. 

Add half a pint of a good starter or clean-flavored sour milk and 
stir well. Rennet is then added at the rate of one-third of a cubic 
centimeter (about eight drops), diluted in a cup of cold water, 
stirred in thoroughly, and the milk set aside to curdle. In place of 
rennet, powdered pepsin (one-half the size of a pea) dissolved in a 
cup of cold water, or one-third of a junket tablet dissolved in a like 
quantity of water, may be added. In making cream cheese it is ad- 



24 farmers' bulletin 960. 

visable to use a very slightly larger quantity of the curdling agent 
than for Xeufchatel. 

If the milk is not pasteurized, warm or cool it to the temperatures 
mentioned aboyp, add starter and rennet as described, and set ny\ny 
to curdle. 

If starter is not used, the milk is set away for seyeral hours, at the 
temperature described, before the rennet or other curdling agent is 
added. After thoroughly stirring, the milk is set away at the same 
temperature to curdle. In either process the time necessary for 
proper curdling is from IG to 18 hours. It is often conyenient to set 
the milk to curdle oyernight. 

Pour the €oagulum or curdled milk upon the drain cloth and allow 
it to drain from 2 to -t hours, or until practically no whey drips from 
the cloth and the curd is comparatiyeh' dry. 

Scrape the curd toward the center of the cloth and tie the diagonal 
corners of the cloth together to facilitate handling. 

If ice is ayailable place the bag or curd in crushed ice and leaye it 
for 3 hours or longer. If ice is not ayailable allow the curd to 
drain an extra hour or more. 

Place the bag of curd between two clean boards, put a 50-pound 
weight upon it, and let it stand. Pressing should cease when there is 
a yield of about 4| pounds of Neufchatel or about 5| pounds of cream 
cheese. This will take about G or 8 hours. If a cider or other screw 
press is ayailable the time required for pressing is about li hours. 

Remoye the curd from the cloth into a pail, sprinkle two leyel 
tablespoonfuls of fine salt over the curd, and thoroughly mix w^ith a 
potato masher until it has a smooth, buttery consistence. Running 
the cheese through a food chopper or working it with a butterworker 
produces the same result. 

Place the cheese in a crock or enameled dish until ready for use. 

Mold the cheese into conmiercial packages by means of the food 
chopper, special attachment, and cheese cutter. 

Wrap in tin foil or aluminum foil, or pack in glass jars. 

Keep the cheese at a temperature of 50° F. or below until con- 
sumed. At that temperature Neufchatel and cream cheese should 
keep from 6 to 12 days, and pimiento-cream cheese should keep nearly 
a month. 

THE USE OF NEUFCHATEL AND CREAM CHEESE IN THE DIET. 

In nutritiye yalue these cheeses compare favorably with other 
staple foods, especially meat. They are easily digested when taken 
in moderate quantities and in combinations with other foods, and. 
being rich in protein and fat, they easily replace such foods as meat, 
fish, and eggs. There are many foods with which they combine to 



NEUFCHATEL AND CREAM CHEESE. 25 

form appetizing and attractive dishes that are easily and quickly 
prepared. These cheeses may be used in a greater number of ways 
than other varieties because they are soft in texture, blend well with 
most foods, and are rich in protein and fat. Perhaps the most de- 
sirable ways to serve them are in the forms of salads, sandwiches, 
and similar dishes. 

The Office of Home Economics, States Relations Service, in co- 
operation with the Dairy Division, has made the following studies of 
cheese cookery : 

Either cream or Neufchatel cheese ma}' be combined with such 
foods as olives, green peppers, pimientos, pickles, different kinds of 
nuts, various vegetables, and nearly all fruits. In addition to the 
desirable blending of the flavors of cheese and the other ingredients, 
the combinations gi^^e spice, color, and attractiveness, increase the 
food value, and afford a varietj^ of dishes easily and quickly pre- 
pared. 

The follo^Ving recipes illustrate a few of the many ways of serving 
these cheeses. Cream or Neufchatel cheese may be used in each of 
the following recipes unless otherwise noted: 

SALADS. 

PLAIX CHEESE SALAD. 

Cut the cheese into small pieces and scatter tliem over lettuce leaves. Serve 
with French or mayonnaise dressing. 

CHEESE AND PIMIENTO SALAD. 

Stuff canned pimientos with the cheese and cut in slices. Serve on lettuce 
leaves with French or mayonnaise dressing. 

OLIVE AXD PliflENTO-CHEESE SALAD OR SANDWICH. 

Add cream or Neufchatel cheese, chopped olives, and pimientos in equal parts. 
Salt to taste and form into a roll or mold. Cut into slices and serve on lettuce 
leaves with French or mayonnaise dressing. 

CHEESE AND LETTUCE SALAD. 

3 leaves of lettuce (chopped). i teaspoon salt. 

1 cheese or 4 tablespoons. s teaspoon paprika. 

Mix ingredients, roll into balls, and cover with toasted bread crumbs. Serve 
plain or on lettuce leaves with dressing. 

TOMATO AND CHEESE S.\LAD NO. 1. 

Choose medium-sized tomatoes, peel, and slice very thick. Drain well and 
wipe each slice. On top of each put a thick layer of cheese, mixed with chopped 
green peppers. Cover all with French or mayonnaise dressing and serve on let- 
tuce. Pimiento iieppers may be used instead of or with green peppers. 

TOMATO AND CHEESE SALAD NO. 2. 

Stuff cold tomatoes with cream, pimiento-cream or Neufchatel cheese. Serve 
on lettuce leaves with French or mayonnaise dressing. 



26 farmers' bulletin 960. 

TOMATO AND CHEESE SALAD NO. 3. 

Mix with the cheese chopped pimientos, celery, and olives. Season with salt 
and paprika. Wash and remove centers from fresh, medium-sized tomatoes, 
r.nd till the cavity with the seasoned cream cheese. Serve on lettuce leaf v>4th 
salad dressing. 

BLANCHED GREEN PEPPERS AND CHEESE SALAD. 

Blanch peppers, cut off large end, then remove centers and put peppers on 
ice. Mix with the cheese: 

i teaspoon salt, 1 dash paprika, 6 stuffed olives, chopped fine. 

While soft, press into the hollowed peppers, chill, and cut into slices. Serve 
on lettuce leaves with mayonnaise, or use as a garnish. 

RADISH AND CHEESE SALAD. 

Select medium-sized radishes, wash and scrape out the centers, adding the 
part removed to cream cheese to which pimientos or nuts have been added. 
Mis well and fill radishes with mixture and serve on lettuce leaves with 
dressing. This cheese combines well with almost any vegetable or fruit to 
make salads and sandwiches. 

CHEESE AND VEGETABLE SALAD. 

Slice thin some peeled tomatoes and cucumbers. Make a quantity of cheese 
balls, heap them on lettuce hearts in the middle of a flat dish, and put little 
piles of cucumbers and tomatoes alternately around them. Cover with French 
or mayonnaise dressing and serve. 

POTATO AND CHEESE SALAD. 

Salad dressing. i cup of water, 

1 egg. Mustard or curry powder. 

i teaspoon of salt. 1 cheese or 4 tablespoons. 

i cup of vinegar. Diced potatoes. 

Add to well-beaten egg the other ingredients and cook over water until tliick, 
then add the cheese and stir until melted and smooth. Pour over the potatoes, 
which have been cubed or diced, and mix well. Chopped celery, sweet peppers, 
or celex'y seed change the taste and give variety. 

CHEESE AND CELERY SALAD. 

1 Stalk celery. i tablespoon of paprika. 

2 cheeses or § cup. 2 tablespoons of finely cut celery tops 

1 teaspoon of salt. and lettuce leaves. 

2 tablespoons of ground pecan nuts. 

Separate the celery, clean thoroughly, and place on ice until crisp. IMaeh 
cheese until soft, and add salt, paprika, and ground nut meats. Dry the celery, 
fill the hollow part with the cheese mixture, and roll in finely chopped parsley 
or celery tops. Cut into 2-inch pieces and serve on crisp lettuce leaves with 
French dressing. 

PRUNE AND CHEESE SALAD. 

Cream the cheese with mayonnaise and to each half cup of the mixture add 
one-quarter cup of English walnut meats, broken. Roll into tiny balls and 
place inside seeded prunes which have been cooked for 10 minutes In lei-ic.i 
juice and water. Serve on lettuce leaves with mayonnaise. 



NEUPCHATEL AND CREAM CHEESE. 27 

PINEAPPLE AND CHEESE SALAD. 

Place slices of pineapple ou lettuce leaves, cover with slices or pieces of 
cheese, and serve vrith mayonnaise dressing. 

PEACH AND CHEESE SALAD. 

Peel large peaches and cut into halves ; remove stones and put on ice ; place 
on lettuce and add a spoonful of mayonnaise. In center of each place a ball of 
cheese. 

ASTORIA SALAD. 

4 large figs. 8 large dates. 

1 teaspoon lemon juice. J cup almonds. 

1 cup of cheese, creamed. 

Add the lemon juice to the cheese, salt to taste, and beat thoroughly. Remove 
stones from dates. Add figs and almonds, chopping all together and beating to 
a smooth paste. Add cheese mixture and mix well together, form into molds or 
balls, and serve on lettuce leaves with salad dressing mixed with an equal 
quantity of whipped cream. Maraschino cherries may be used instead of figs. 

HONOLULU SALAD. 

Put a slice of raw or canned pineapple on a nest of lettuce leaves. Mix one- 
half cup of cheese with a pimiento pepper ; add a dash of salt and cayenne or 
tabasco. Form into balls and place one in the center of each slice of pineapple. 
Serve with mayonnaise dressing. 

CHEESE SALAD AND PRESEEVES. 

Place pieces of the cheese on. lettuce leaves and cover with French or mayon- 
naise dressing. Serve with currants or other fruits, preserved in honey or 
sugar. 

NUT AND CHEESE SALAD. 

Cover whole blanched almonds with cheese and form in egg shapes. Roll in 
finely ground almonds. Pile in nests of lettuce leaves. Serve with mayonnaise 
dressing. Peanuts and many other nuts may be used equally satisfactorily. 

PEAR AND CHEESE SALAD NO. 1. 

Mix chopped pecans with the cheese, form into balls, roll them in finely 
chopped nuts, and place in cavities of California white pears. Serve on lettuce 
leaves with mayonnaise. 

PEAR AND CHEESE SALAD NO. 2. 

Wash ripe pears and cut in two (crosswise). Scoop out the center from one 
half and fill the pear cup thus made with the cheese, to which chopped nuts, 
salt, and paprika have been added. Cover with the other half, chill, and serve 
V\uth mayonnaise. 

CHEESE AND FRUITS. 

CHEESE AND CHERRIES. 

Select large whole cherries ; wash, drain, and stone. Fill the centers with 
cheese and serve on lettuce leaves with mayonnaise. The cheese may be pre- 
pared with nut meats or pimientos before filling the cherries. 



28 farmers' bulletin 960. 



CHEESE AND DATES. 

Select large, firm dates ; wash, drain, and stone. Stuff with cream cheese 
seasoned with salt and paprika. Chill and serve on a nest of lettuce loaves 
v,'ith mayonnaise or special cheese dressing. 

CHEESE SURPRISE. 

Select tart apples of uniform size ; core, pare, and steam in a sirup of 1 cup 
of sugar to 2 cups of boiling water until soft. When cool place on the ice to 
chill thoroughly. Season cream cheese with salt and paprika and mix together 
until soft. Cover the apples with the cheese mixture. Chill again before serv- 
ing. Serve on lettuce. 

CHEESE AND APPLES. 

Mix with one cheese 12 dates (seeded and chopped) and 1 tablespoon of 
chopped pecan nuts. Wash and core good eating apples and fill the centers 
with the cheese mixture. Chill and serve on crisp lettuce leaves with French 
or mayonnaise dressing. 

FROZEN CHEESE WITH FIGS. 

Mash two cheeses and beat them with half a cup of stiffly beaten cream 
until smooth; flavor, and sweeten to taste. Put into covered pail or moid and 
bury in ice and salt for 4 hours. Slice in pieces 2 inches thick and cut round 
with biscuit cutter. In the side of each piece put a preserved fig or some other 
fruit. 

TOMATO RABBIT. 

2 tablespoons of butter. 'i cup of milk. 

2 tablespoons of flour. i teaspoon of soda. 

I cup of stewed and drained tomatoes. 
5 cheeses, or 1§ cups. 

Cook the butter ami flour together, add milk, and as soon as the mixture 
thickens add tomatoes and soda. Then add cheese and seasoning. Serve on 
toast, whole wheat, or Graham bread. 

BAKB:D CHEESE AND TOMATO. 

Select good whole tomatoes, remove part of contents, stuff with cheese, and 
bake. Green peppers may be used in the same way. Serve hot. 

CHEESE SANDWICHES. 

CUBAN SANDWICH. 

Between two slices of bread place lettuce witli a little salad dressing or salt 
on it, then a slice of cheese, and finally tliin slices of dill pickles or a little 
chopped pickle. 

TOASTED CHEESE SANDWICHES. 

Plain bread and butter sandwiches with fairly thick slices of cheese between 
are toasted, and on picnics or at chafing-dish suppers are often browned in a 
pan in which liacon has been fried. 

CHEESE AND JELLY SANDWICH. 

Spread slices of bread with a layer of cream cheese, then a layer of jelly. 
Place another layer of bread on top to form a sandwich, then toast. 



XEUFCHATEL AND CEEAM CHEESE. 29 

(HEESE-UATE-XUT. SANDWICH. 

Seasuu cream cheese with cliopped dates and nuts and serve as sandwich 
filling for graham crackers. 

CHEESE FOR SANDWICHES. 

Add salt, a few dx'ops of vinegar, paprika, and a speck of mustard to one 
cream or Neufchatel cheese. Mix thoroughly and spread between thin slices 
of bread. Anchovy essence may be added to the mixture if desired. 

CHEESE PASTE FOR SANDWICHES. 

i cup of tomato ketchup. 1 teaspoon onion juice. 

2 tablespoons chopped pecans. 1 teaspoon of salt. 

2 cheeses or § caip. i teaspoon paprika. 

Cream the cheese and mix with the other ingredients. Spread between 
thinly cut .slices of bread. This will make sufficient paste for abcmt 24 ordinary 
sandwiches. 

CHEESE AND JAM SANDWICHES. 

Brown bread. Cheese with jam, marmalade, or pre- 

Cheese. served ginger. 

Slice bread thin and spread with layer of jam or marmalade ; strawberry and 
peach flavors give best results. Spread a layer of cheese over jam and cover 
with another slice of bread. Press and serve. 

CHEESE AND VEGETABLES. 

CHEESE AND POTATO PUFFS. 

1 cheese or 4 tablespoons. i teaspoon of salt. 

1 cup hot seasoned mashed potatoes. 1 dash of paprika. 

1 egg. A teaspoon pai-sley chopped fine. 

Mix cheese and potatoes, add salt, parsley, paprika, and yolk of egg well 
beaten. Fold in the stiffly beaten white of egg, place by .spoonfuls on a greased 
pan, and bake until a golden brown. 

CHEESE-POTATO CAKES- 

Mix one cheese with 2i cups of cold mashed potatoes; season with salt, pep- 
per, or a little paprika. Form into cakes and fry quickly in a little fat. 

CHEESE ROLLS. 

A large variety of rolls may l)e made by combining legumes — beans of dif- 
ferent kinds, cowpeas, lentils, or peas — with cheese, and adding bread crumbs 
to make the mixture thick enough to form into a roll. Beans are usually 
mashed, but peas or small Lima beans may be combined whole with bread 
crumbs and cheese, and enough of the liquor in which the vegetables have 
been cooked may be added to get the right consistence. Chopped spinach, beet 
tops, or head lettuce may be used instead of the legumes. 

CHEESE AND BEAN ROAST. 

1-pound can kidney beans or equiva- Bread crumbs, 
lent of other cooked beans. Salt. 

3 chee.ses or 1 cup. 



30 FARMEES' BULLETIN 960. 

Mash the beans or put through a meat grinder. Add cheese and bread 
crumbs enough to make the mixture sufficiently stiff to be formed into a roll. 
Bake in a moderate oven, basting occasionally with fat and water. Serve with 
tomato sauce. This dish may be flavored with onions, chopped and cooked in 
butter and water. 

CHEESE AND CELERY RELISH. 

Cut stalks of deep-grooved celery into pieces about 2 inches long. Fill 
grooves with Neufchatel, cream, or pimiento cheese and serve with bread and 
butter as a salad course or serve as a relish. 

TOMATOES AND CHEESE. 

Broil slices of tomatoes, season with salt and paprika, place on slices of bread, 
cover the broiled tomatoes with seasoned cheese, and place in oven until cheese 
is melted. Serve at once. 

CHEESE AND PARSLEY BALLS. 

Season the cheese and mold into balls, chill, and roll in finely chopped parsley. 
Serve as garnish or on lettuce leaves with French or mayonnaise dressing. 

CHEESE AND CEREALS. 

Cheese may be combined with many breakfast foods. It can be melted 
with the " ready-to-serve " breakfast foods or simply served with them, and it 
may be cooked with the home-cooked kinds. This is a very rational dish as 
regards the proportion of nutrients and may be served as the principal item 
of a breakfast menu, thereby eliminating the meat. It may be served with- 
out milk and sugar. 

OATMEAL WITH CHEESE. 

2 cups of oatmeal. 1 tablespoon of butter. 

1 cup of cheese. 1 level teaspoon of salt. 

Cook the oatmeal as ususal. Shortly before serving stir in the butter and 
add the cheese. Stir until cheese is melted and blended with oatmeal. The 
cheese flavor may be increased or decreased by the quantity added. Wheat 
breakfast foods (parched or unparched), corn meal, and hominy may be pi-e- 
pared in the same way. 

CHEESE WITH MUSH. 

Cheese may be added to corn-meal mush or to mush made from any of the 
corn or wheat preparations now on the market. The addition of cheese is 
particularly desirable when the mush is to be fried. Simply put the cheese 
in with the meal and cook until well blended. It fries much more satisfac- 
torily and has a rich, desirable flavor. 

BAKED CHEESE AND RICE. 

1 cup of rice. 3 cheeses or 1 cup milk as needed. 

Cook the rice in salted water, and put into a buttered baking dish alternate 
layers of rice and cheese. Pour over them milk enough to come halfway to 
the top, cover with bread crumbs, and brown in the oven. 



NEUFCHATEL AND CREAM CHEESE. 31 

CHEESE AND EGGS. 

DEVILED EGGS WITH CHEESE, 

Deviled eggs are very much improved by the use of cream or Nejifchatel 
cheese mixed with the egg yollv. The cheese prevents the crumbling of the yolk, 
as is usually the case with deviled eggs. Beat the eggs slightly, mix them with 
the other ingredients, and cook over a very slow tire, stirring constantly so as 
to melt the cheese by the time the eggs are cooked. 

BAKED EGGS WITH CHEESE. 

4 eggs. 1 teaspoon of salt. 

2 or 3 cheeses or from § to 1 cup. Few grains cayenne pepper. 
1 cup of fine, soft, stale bread crumbs. 

Break the eggs into a buttered baking dish or into ramekins, and cook in 
a hot oven until they begin to turn white around the edges. Cover the mixture 
with crumbs, cheese, and seasoning. Brown in a very hot oven so that the 
cheese is brown without tlie eggs being cooked too much. White sauce may be 
put over eggs before the clieese mixture is added, 

CREAMED CHEESE AND EGGS. 

3 hard-boiled eggs. Speck of cayenne. 
1 tablespoon of flour. 4 slices of toast. 

1 cup of milk. 2 or 3 cheeses or from § to 1 cup. 
^ teaspoon of salt. 

Make a thin white sauce with the flour, milk, and seasoning. Add the cheese 
and stir until melted. Chop the whites of the eggs and add them to the sauce. 
Pour over the toast, then cut the yolks in small pieces and sprinkle over the 
whole. 

CHEESE OMELET. 

2 eggs. 2 tablespoon of butter. 

2 teaspoons of milk. i teaspoon salt. 
1 cheese or 4 tablespoons. Dash of pepper, 

Cceam the cheese until soft, add milk, then the well-beaten yolks of the eggs, 
and then the stiffly beaten whites. Place a little butter in an iron skillet and 
when hot pour in the omelet. Cook until brown, then place under flame in an 
oven until slightly dried out on top, turn, and serve on hot platter. Season 
with salt, pepper, and butter. 

SCRAMBLED EGGS WITH CHEESE. 

3 eggs. 2 teaspoon of salt. 

3 cheeses, or 1 cup. Pinch of nutmeg if desired. 

1 tablespoon of chopped parsley. 

CHEESE SOUFFLE. 

3 eggs. 5 tablespoons of honey. 

i teaspoon of salt. i cup of sour cream. 

1 cheese, or 4 tablespoons. 

Beat cream and cheese until smooth. Add honey so that it is well blended, 
add yolks, then beaten whites. Fill pastry cases and bake 25 minutes. They 
will puff over the cases. If preferred, they may be baked in custard cups 
instead of cases. Serve with cheese sauce made by heating thick cream and 
cheese, blending with spoon and beater. 



32 farmers' bulletin 960. 

miscellaneous cheese dishes. 

Cream or Neufchatel cheese may be used in preparing many dislies wiiich may 
take the place of or supplement meat dishes, as well as in the recipes given 
below. It is not recommended to use them instead of American Cheddar or 
other cheese, but to show the many ways of using them satisfactorily. Since 
these cheeses are not ripened, they have a mild-cheese flavor in contrast to 
the strong-flavored cheese. The Cheddar cheese is often cheaper, has a more 
pronounced flavor, and when obtainable should be used in the regular way. 

When these cheeses are made in the home, and are therefore not so expensive, 
or when a mild-cheese flavor is desired, or when the other cheeses are not easily 
obtainable, they will be found very acceptable in preparing many dishes, a 
number of which are given below. The nutritive value of the menu and the 
number of palatable dishfes which may be served will be greatly increased by 
their use. 

In many recipes calling for cheese the omission of butter and the substitu- 
tion of a smaller quantity of skim milk or water for whole milk is very desir- 
able and more wholesome because of the high fat and water content of the 
cheese. 

PIMIENTO AND CHEESE ROAST. 

2 cups of Lima beans, cooked. Bread crumbs. 

2 canned pimientos, chopped. Salt and pepper. 

2 cheese or § cup. 

l^it the cheese, beans, and peppers through a meat grinder. Mix well and 
add bread crumbs until stiff enough to form into a roll. Brown in oven, basting 
occasionally with fat and water. 

nUED BREAD WITH CHEESE. 

Cut Stale bread into thin pieces and put two pieces together with cheese 
between them. Dip in a mixture of egg and milk and fry in butter or other fat. 

CHEESE SAUCE. 

1 cup of milk. From 1 to 3 cheeses or from 4 table- 

2 tablespoons of flour. spoons to 1 cup. 

Salt and pepper. 

Thicken the milk with flour and add cheese just before serving, stirring until 
melted. 

This sauce may be used in preparing creamed eggs, to pour over toast, with 
macaroni, rice, Welsh rabbit, or for baking with crackers soaked in milk. 

CHEESE AND MACARONI. 

1 cup of macaroni broken into small 1 teaspoon of onion juice. 

pieces. 1 teaspoon of chopped parsley. 

1 tablespoon of chopped green peppers. 3 cheeses or 1 cup. 
1 tablespoon of butter. Salt and pepper. 

Cook the macaroni in boiling water until tender; rinse in cold water, and 
cook parsley, onion, and green peppers in a little water with butter. Mix all 
ingredients together with the cheese and bake in a moderate oven about 15 
minutes. 

PLAIN CHEESE AND MACARONI. 

Cook macaroni until done, drain water off. add salt and pepper and cheese, 
stirring until cheese is melted. Serve at once. 



NEUFCHATEL AND CREAM CHEESE. 33 

CHEESE, RICE, AND TOMATO. 

1 cup of cooked rice. 2 of medium-sizecl green jiepper. 

1 teaspoon of salt. ? of medium-sized onion. 

1 cheese or 4 tablespoons. 3 medium-sized tomatoes. 

Cook tomatoes, onion, and green pepper 20 minutes. Add cooked rice and 
seasoning, then the cheese. When melted, i)our over heated crackers or toast. 

SAVOBY CHEESE. 

3 slices of bacon. 1 tablespoon of milk. 

1 cheese or 4 tablespoons. i teaspoon of salt. 

i teaspoon onion juice. Dash of paprika. 

Crisp the bacon and break it into small pieces. Mix cheese seasoning and 
milk with bacon. Heat thoroughly and serve on toast or crackers. 

CHEESE FONDUE. 

1 cheese. 3 teaspoons of milk. 

i cup of tine bread crumbs. i cup of hot water. 

i teaspoon of salt. 2 eggs. 

Cream the cheese and add salt, hot water, bread crumbs, and milk, then the 
well-beaten yolks of the eggs. The well-beaten whites are then gently added. 
Pour the fondue into a greased baking dish and place in a pan surrounded by 
hot water. Cook in a slow oven about 30 minutes or until firm. Test in center 
with knife. 

BERMUDA RELISH. 

Arrange slices of Bermuda onion on toast with salt, pepper, and a drop of 
tabasco sauce on each; tlien add a thin layer of cream cheese. Bake long 
enough to melt the cheese. 

CHEESE TOAST. 

1 cheese, or 4 tablespoons. i teaspoon paprika, 

i teaspoon of salt. 

Slice bread thin and cut into round pieces with l^iseuit cutter. Cream the 
* cheese, add salt and paprika, spread evenly on bread, and brown in oven. 

CHEESE CRUSTS. 

Cut some stale bread in slices 2 inches thick. Trim crusts and spread with 
one tablespoon of cheese. Season with salt and paprika. Lay in baking pan 
and brown in oven. 

CHEESE BALLS, FRIED. 

i cup of dry brown or victory l)read i teaspoon of salt. 

crumbs. - i teaspoon of mustard. 

1 cup of cheese. A few grains of cayenne pepper. 

1 egg. 

Mix ingredients, shape in small balls, and fry in deep fat. 



34 farmers' bulletin 960. 

FBOZEN CHEESE. 

4 cheeses, or IJ cups. 2 eggs. 

1 quart of milk. 1^ cups of sugar. 

1 pint of cream. 

Beat the cream and cheese together until smooth. To the well-beaten yolks of 
the eggs add the sugar and vanilla to taste, and the milk. Strain and freeze. 
When partly frozen add the well-beaten whites of the eggs. 

CHEESE RELISH. 

1 cheese, or 4 tablespoons. 1 tablespoon of butter, 

2 tablespoons of Roquefort cheese. 2 green peppers. 

i stalk celery. i tablespoon of paprika. 

1 large Bermuda onion. 

Rub the cheese and butter to a smooth paste, then add the paprika and the 
onion, celery, and pepper, chopped fine. Chill and serve with hot , toasted 
cracker. 

CHEESE DRESSING. 

1 cheese, or 4 tal)lespoons. i teaspoon mustard, 

i egg. i teaspoon salt, 

i cup cold water. 1 teaspoon sugar. 
1 tablespoon vinegar. 

Beat the egg until light, add salt, sugar, and mustard, then water and vin- 
egar, and cook over boiling water until thick. Then add cheese and beat until 
light and smooth. Serve when cold. A variety of salads may be served with 
this dressing. Chopped hard-boiled eggs, shredded pepper, and chopped olives, 
mixed and served on lettuce leaves with this dressing, make an excellent salad. 

Whole tomatoes, with centers removed and the center filled with chopped 
cabbage, make a good salad with this dressing. 

CHEESE SPOON BREAD. 

1 egg. 2 cup of corn meal (white). 

1 cheese, or 4 tablespoons. i teaspoon of baking powder. , 

1 cup of luilk. i teaspoon of salt. 

Heat milk, salt, and corn meal in double boiler for .5 minutes. Add cheese, 
and when melted and cool stir in the baking powder, then adtl the beaten egg. 
Bake in greased muffin rings or bread pan about 20 minutes. 

CRACKERS AND CHEESE. 

1 cheese, or 4 tablespoons. 2 tablespoons of milk. 

1 egg. 5 teaspoon of salt. 

3 drops of onion juice. 

Soften the cheese, add milk, seasoning, and the yolk beaten until lemon col- 
ored, and lastly fold in the stiffly beaten white of the egg. Place spoonful on 
toast or crackers, heat thoroughly, and serve. 



NEUFCHATEL AND CREAM CHEESE. 35 

GINGEKBEEAD. 

Make a gingerbread, reducing the quantity of sugar. Wlien cold cut in two 
and put in a layer of the following between the two halves : 
2 cheeses or § cup. i tablespoon of salt. 

2 tablespoons of chopped dates. Rub to a paste. 

2 tablespoons of pecan nuts (chopped 

fine). 

CHEESE FRITTERS. 

1 cheese or 4 tablespoons. i teaspoon of onion .iuice, if desired. 

1 cup of cooked rice. i teaspoon of salt. 

i cup of milk. Dash of paprika. 

1 egg. 

Mix rice, cheese, milk, paprika, salt, and onion juice. Beat the egg well and 
mix with the other ingredients. Drop by spoonfuls on lightly greased skillet 
and turn when brown. Serve plain or with jelly. 

CHEESE CROQUETTES. 

Prepare the same as for cheese fritters. Chill the mixture thoroughly, mold 
into shape, roll in fine bread crumbs, then in diluted egg (1 tablespoon of milk 
or water to an egg), and again in bread crumbs. Place in greased pan and 
brown in oven. Serve with tart jelly. 



o 



BOSTON PUBLIC LIBRARY 



3 9999 05987 765 2 



Boston Public Library 
Central Library, Copley Square 

Division of 
Reference and Research Services 



The Date Due Card in the pocket indi- 
cates the date on or before which this 
book should be returned to the Library. 

Please do not remove cards from this 
pocket. 




WM 



rpr 






w 







'^Wn 



'm^; 



H^ 



i 






.»4^. ?Kr 








^.^^ 



