
THE COOK'S 

ECONOMICAL 
BOOK 





Class JTXiuJl 
Book .V.ZfC 



GoiiyiiglitU?. 



COnffilGKT DEPOSIT. 



THE COOK'S 
ECONOMICAL BOOK 



Compiled and Edited 

BY 

MRS. MARY C. DAVIS 



WILL BE FOUND A RELIABLE GUIDE 
TO THE YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER AND 
A REFERENCE BOOK HELPFUL TO ALL 



r 



W. A. BUTTERFIELD 

59 BROMFIELD STREET : : : : BOSTON 






1^ 



&< 



Copyright, 1918 

BY 

Mrs. Mary C. Davis 



OEC 30 ISIS 



•CLAfii 1 109 



\\* 



-^c \ 













PAGE 


Weights and Measures . . . . . . 6 


Soups 










7 


Fish .... 










10 


Meats 










16 


Vegetables . 










27 


Salads 










32 


Bread and Rolls . 










37 


Croquettes, Fritters and Patties . 








44 


Breakfast and Luncheon Dishes . 








47 


Puddings ..... 








53 


Pudding Sauces , . . 








59 


Pastry ..... 








61 


Frozen Desserts .... 








64 


Beverages ..... 








67 


Cakes ..... 








71 


Cookies, Doughnuts and Gingerbread 








76 


Icings and Fillings 








79 


Chafing Dishes .... 








81 


Canning ..... 








83 


Jelly Making .... 








88 


Pickles 








91 


Diet for the Sick 








94 


Sandwiches .... 








97 


Confectionery .... 








99 


Food and Food Materials 








101 


General Suggestions 


. 








105 



Weights and Measures 

1 quart sifted flour weighs 1 lb. 

1 quart Indian meal weighs 1 lb. 2 oz. 

1 quart powdered sugar weighs 1 lb. 1 oz. 

1 quart best brown sugar weighs 1 lb. 2 oz. 

1 quart soft butter weighs 1 lb. 1 oz. 

1 pint granulated sugar weighs 1 lb. 

1 pint closely packed butter weighs 1 lb. 
Butter size of an egg, equals }i cup, weighs 2 oz. 
10 eggs average 1 lb. 

3 tablespoonfuls liquid weigh 1 oz. 

4 saltspoonfuls of liquid equals 1 teaspoonful. 
4 teaspoonfuls of liquid equal 1 tablespoonful. 

3 teaspoonfuls of dry material equal 1 tablespoonful. 

4 tablespoonfuls of liquid equal 1 wineglass, 1 gill or }i cupful, 
16 tablespoonfuls of liquid equal 1 cupful. 

8 heaping tablespoonfuls of dry material equal 1 cupful. 

2 gills equal 1 cupful or J^ pint. 

4 cupfuls of liquid equal 1 quart. 

1 pint of milk or water equals 1 pound. 

1 pint chopped meat solidly packed equals 1 pound. 

1 teaspoonful soda to 1 pint of sour milk. 

1 teaspoonful soda to 1 cupful of molasses. 

A pinch of salt or spice is about a saltspoonful. 



SOUPS 

Soup, by some people mistakenly thought to be an expensive 
luxury, is generally a means of economy since the most tempting 
and nutritious soups can be made of the most inexpensive 
materials. 

Soup stock is the basis of all meat soups. It consists of the 
soluble portions of meat, vegetables, and sometimes other ingre- 
dients, dissolved in water. For stock-making a deep kettle with 
a tight cover has been found to be the best. 

Soup Stock 

Wash four pounds of lean beef and put it into four quarts of 
cold unsalted water. Let it come to a boil slowly and skim well. 
Add a little salt and a dash of cold water to assist the skum to 
rise. Skim again, and set it back and let it boil gently for six 
or eight hours, or until the meat is in shreds. Add a little pepper 
and strain through two thicknesses of cheese-cloth into a stone 
jar. Cool and remove all grease. This stock will keep for many 
days if kept in a cool place. 

Mixed Vegetable Soup 

To one quart of stock add two heaping tablespoon fuls each 
of chopped onion (fried), chopped celery, and turnip either 
chopped or cut with a vegetable cutter, one tablespoon ful of 
carrot prepared like the turnip, and one cupful of cooked strained 
tomato. 

Summer Vegetable Soup 

Prepare as for mixed vegetable soup. Omit the onion and 
tomato and add small green peas and flowerets of cauliflower, 
asparagus tips, or all three. 

Tomato Soup 

Add one pint of stock to one half can of tomatoes, stewed 
and strained, and one half teaspoonful of sugar. 

Tomato soups must be made with great care to prevent the 
acid in the tomatoes from curdling the milk. Adding a little soda 
helps to neutralize the acid. Draw the saucepan away from the 
heat before adding the soda ; otherwise the tomato may foam 
over. Pour the tomato slowly into the milk ; if the milk is poured 
into the tomato, it will curdle. Take care not to combine milk 
and tomato till just before serving as milk heated with acid is 
almost sure to curdle. 



Tomato Soup 

To 2 quarts of stock add 1 quart tomatoes, 4 medium-sized 
onions, 1 dozen cloves, ^4 teaspoon mace, a few stalks of celery, 
a little cayenne pepper, and 1 teaspoon salt. Boil 2 hours. Put 
through a sieve to remove seeds, and add 2 tablespoons of rice. 
Boil one half hour or until rice is tender. 

Tomato Bisque 
One quart tomatoes stewed and strained. Let the juice come 
to a boil and add 1 heaping teaspoon soda ; stir until it foams, 
then add 3 pints of milk. When it comes to a boil remove from 
fire, add pepper and salt to taste, and butter the size of an egg. 
Thicken with very fine cracker crumbs. 

Cream of Tomato Soup 

5^ can tomatoes 1 quart milk 

2 tbsp. butter 1 tsp. salt 

2 tbsp flour %. tsp. pepper 

few grains soda 
Scald the milk and thicken with the flour and butter. Cook 
the tomatoes 10 minutes or until soft, add the soda and strain. 
Stir the tomato slowly into the thickened milk, taking care that it 
does not cook after being mixed, and serve at once. 

Tomato Soup 
Cook 5 good sized tomatoes and strain. Then add ^ teaspoon 
soda, 1 pint milk, butter, salt, and pepper. 

Cream of Asparagus 

1 bunch asparagus 2 tbsp. butter 

1 quart water 2 tbsp. flour 

1 pint milk Salt and pepper 

Break oflf the heads and cook them with the stalks in the water. 
Take out the heads as soon as they are tender and either serve 
them on toast or put them in the tureen before turning in the soup. 

Cream of Celery Soup 

3 roots or 3 stalks celery with 2 tbsp. butter 

leaves 2 tbsp. flour 

1 pint hot water Salt and pepper 

1 quart milk 
Wash the celery, cut in short pieces, and simmer until tender. 

Corn Chowder 
Cut 2 medium slices salt pork into very small bits. Fry until 
very well browned. Add 2 onions sliced thin and cook until 
tender. To this add 1 quart milk and the corn cut from 5 or 6 
medium ears. Let boil until corn is thoroughly cooked. Thicken 
slightly if desired and serve with crackers or toast. 

8 



Cream of Turnip or Carrot Soup 

1 to 2 cups mashed carrots or 2 tbsp. butter 

turnip 2 tbsp. floiu" 

1 pt. water Salt 

1 pt. milk Pepper 

If a left-over mashed vegetable is used, heat the milk and water 
together and pour them on it. Strain and bind as usual. 

Split Pea Soup 

1 cup split peas 1 tsp. salt 

3 pts. cold water }i tsp. pepper 

Milk to thin properly 1 ham bone 

2 tbsp. butter Slice of onion 

2 tbsp flour 

Soak peas over night. Drain them and simmer two hours or 
more, adding more water as the first boils away. When very 
soft, rub peas and water through a strainer. 

Potato Soup 

3 large potatoes 1 tsp. salt 

1 qt. milk % tsp. pepper 

2 tbsp. butter 1 slice onion 

2 tbsp. flour Celery root or 
Bit of bay leaf 1 stalk celery 

Boil potatoes and mash them through a strainer into a sauce- 
pan. Cook the onion in the milk. When the milk scalds, remove 
the onion and stir the milk into the potato. Bind with the flour 
and butter. Season, strain into a tureen and sprinkle with parsley. 

Bean Soup 
1 pt. beans 1 tsp. salt 

1 cup milk Pepi)er to taste 

1 tbsp. flour 
1 tbsp. butter 

Parboil the beans. Drain oflf water and add fresh and boil till 
perfectly tender. Strain through a colander and add the salt, 
pepper, butter and milk and let come to a boil. 

Buttercup Soup 

1 qt. milk 1 cup squash 

3 tbsp. flour % tsp. celery salt 
1 slice onion 2 tbsp. butter 

1 tsp. salt Few grains pepper 

Scald the milk with the onion. Remove the onion and add a 
cup of cooked squash that has been rubbed through a sieve. Add 
the butter and flour and cook all together. 

9 



FISH 

In food value and digestibility, fish is much like lean meat. As 
it is less stimulating, it is especially suited to the needs of brain 
workers who take little exercise. It is more desirable as means 
of varying the diet than as a staple food. Fish is hurt more by 
keeping than meat and if kept too long it is watery when cooked. 

Information about Fish 

Cod: Color light green with white stripe down side; spotted 
with darker color, 2 to 6 ft. long ; weighs from 3 to 100 lbs. 
Sold whole or by the pound. May be boiled baked or fried. 

Haddock : Color silvery ; one black spot on either side of head. 
2 to 3 ft. long ; weighs about 5 lbs. Sold like cod. May be boiled, 
baked or fried. 

Mackerel: Silvery belly with blue back; body slender. 12 in. 
long ; weighs 1 lb. Sold whole and is cooked by broiling. 

Bluefish : Back blue ; belly light. Broader than mackerel. 2 ft. 
long ; weighs 4 lbs. Sold whole. Baked, boiled, fried, broiled. 

Halibut : Flat fish with white belly and brown back. Both eyes 
on same side of head. 3 to 6 ft. long; weighs about 125 lbs. Sold 
by the pound. May be boiled or fried. 

Weak fish : White belly ; yellow breast fins. About 2 ft. long ; 
weighs 4 lbs. Sold by the pound. May be boiled or baked. 

Smelts : Back silvery. 6 in. long ; weighs 1 to 2 ounces. Sold 
by the pound. Fried. 

Fresh Water Fish 

Whitefish: White except narrow stripe on back. 2 ft. long; 
weighs 3 lbs. May be boiled or baked. 

Perch: Silvery with dark lines along back; yellow fins. 9 
inches long; weighs yi lb. Sold whole. Broiled or fried. 

Black Bass: Body broad; back green. 18 inches long; weighs 
1 to 2 lbs. May be broiled, baked or fried. 

Fish Found in Both Fresh and Salt Water 

Salmon: Silvery, dark line along back, spots near head; flesh, 
pink. 2 to 3 ft. long; weighs 9 to 10 lbs. Sold by the pound. 
May be boiled or smoked. 

Shad : Back dark : scales large and silvery. 2 ft. long ; weighs 
5 lbs. Sold whole. May be broiled or baked. 

How TO Clean a Fish 
Wash the fish inside and out with a cloth wet in cold water, 
and dry with a clean towel kept for this purpose. If the fish is 
to be broiled or fried, cut off head and tail and split it down the 
back ; if to be boiled, cut off the head only ; if to be baked, leave 
whole. 

10 



Stuffing for Baked Fish 

1 cup bread crumbs Few grains pepper 

1 tbsp, melted butter Few drops onion juice 

Yz tsp. salt 1 tbsp. parsley cut fine 

Mix the ingredients in the order given. This recipe makes 
stuffing for a four-pound fish. 

Directions for Baking a Fish Whole 

Fill the cavity with stuffing, allowing it room to swell slightly. 
Sew the slit over and over with strong thread, taking stitches deep 
enough not to tear out. If the fish is a dry one, cut gashes cross- 
wise and put in them strips of fat salt pork about one inch long. 
Skewer and tie the fish in the shape of the letter S, and set up- 
right surrounded by bits of salt pork, on a greased fish sheet on 
a baking pan. Bake until brown (45 to 60 min.), basting often. 
Serve with drawn butter or Hollandaise sauce. 

If you have no fish sheet, lay two strips of cloth across the 
pan and lift the fish out, when done, by these. 

Directions for Broiling a Fish 

Use a close-barred double wire broiler. Grease it when hot 
with salt pork rind. See that the fish is wiped dry, sprinkle it 
with salt and pepper, and if not oily, rub it with melted butter. 

Broil split fish, flesh side to the heat, turning occasionally. Turn 
slices of fish often. When cooked, carefully loosen both sides of 
the fish from the broiler, and slip oflf on to a hot platter. Spread 
with butter, salt and pepper, or with tartar sauce, and garnish 
with parsley and slices of lemon. 

Directions for Boiling a Fish 

To the water in which the fish is to be boiled add the juice 
of half a lemon, or one-fourth cup of vinegar. Place the fish on 
a fish rack or a plate or coil it in a wire basket. If on a plate, 
tie fish and plate in a piece of clean cheese-cloth. When the water 
boils, lower the fish into it and let it simmer until the flesh separates 
from the bones. When nearly done, add a tablespoonful of salt. 
Garnish with parsley and slices of lemon and serve on a platter 
with drawn butter or tartar sauce. 

Drawn Butter 

Yi cup butter V/i cups water 

3 tbsp. flour Salt and pepper 

Mix flour, salt and pepper with one-half the butter, pour on 
water and stir over the fire until the sauce boils. Add rest of 
butter in bits, stirring until it is absorbed. For &g% sauce, add 2 
hard-boiled eggs chopped to drawn butter. 

11 



Tartar Sauce 
1 tsp. lemon juice 1 tbsp. Worcestershire sauce 

%. tsp. salt 1 tbsp. vinegar 

Heat the vinegar, lemon juice, salt and Worcestershire. Brown 
the butter in a frying pan and strain into the mixture. 

Creamed Fish 

Remove skin and bone; pick fish into flakes with a fork and 
heat it in drawn butter or white sauce. 

Creamed Fish 

Boil 3 lbs. haddock for ^ hr. in salted water; pick into large 
flakes. 

Sauce. One quart milk, ^^ cup cream, thicken with J4 cup of 
flour. Salt and pepper to taste. Cook thoroughly, and when done 
add the yolks of 2 eggs and ^ lb. butter. 

Fill a baking dish with alternate layers of fish and sauce. 
Cover with buttered crumbs and bake until brown. 

Creamed Shrimps 

One pint cream (can use part milk), 1 can shrimps, yi cup 
boiled rice, ^^ cup strained tomatoes, salt and pepper and piece 
of butter. 

Salmon L^oaf 
1 can salmon 4 tbsp. melted butter 

^ cup bread crumbs 1 tbsp. parsley cut fine 

4 eggs Salt and cayenne pepper 

Mix salmon and butter well. Beat eggs separately. Add bread 
crumbs to beaten yolks. Mix salmon with other ingredients. 
After all is well mixed, add 1 large tablespoon lemon juice and 1 
of onion extract and the whites of the eggs. Steam in a mold 
or a deep pan an hour or more. Serve with a thin white sauce 
to which has been added a can of peas. 

Salmon and Lemon Jelly 

Make a plain unsweetened lemon jelly and stir in a good amount 
of salmon. Let harden and serve on lettuce leaves with a good 
salad dressing. 

Salmon Croquettes 

Mash and drain 1 can of salmon. And 1 tsp. salt, 1 tbsp. 
chopped parsley, 1 tbsp. onion juice, a grating of nutmeg and a 
dash of pepper. Make a white sauce of 1 cup of milk, 1 tbsp. 
butter, 2 tbsp. flour. Add 3 beaten tgg yolks and cook a minute 
longer. Mix meat and white sauce. Turn out to cool. Form 
into cylinders, dip in beaten ^gg, roll in crumbs and fry in deep 
smoking hot fat. 

13 



Creamed Lobsters 
1 pt. lobsters 1 tbsp. flour 

Yi pt. milk Juice of half a lemon 

Yt. pt, cream 1 tsp. salt 

1 tbsp. butter Pinch of cayenne 

Make a sauce by cooking, over boiling water, the butter and 
flour, the milk and half the cream. Put the lobsters into the 
sauce, add salt and pepper, and stir until smoking hot; then add 
rest of cream and cook long enough to heat ; add lemon juice and 
sauce. 

Fish and Macaroni Scallop 

Take equal parts of cold boiled macaroni and fish and put in 
baking dish in layers. Fry 1 tsp. minced onion in 1 tbsp. butter, 
adding 1 tbsp. flour and 1 cup stewed tomatoes. Salt and pepper 
to taste and pour over the fish. Cover with butter crumbs and 
bake until brown. 

Scalloped Fish 

Flake left-over boiled fish and mix with white sauce and minced 
parsley. Cover with buttered crumbs and bake until brown. 

Scalloped Fish 

For a 2-quart dish boil 3 pounds haddock in salted water and 
flake with a fork. 

Boil 1 onion in V/2 pints milk 20 minutes, take out onion and 
thicken milk with 2 tbsp. flour. When thick add 1 large table- 
spoon butter, salt and pepper to taste. Mix with fish and pour into 
a buttered dish. Cover with buttered crumbs and bake until 
brown. 

Fried Frogs' Legs 

Dip in milk to which has been added a little salt and pepper and 
onion juice. Roll in flour and fry brown in very hot lard. Gar- 
nish with parsley. 

Scalloped Salmon 

1 can salmon 1 cup buttered crumbs 

1 cup milk Salt and pepper 

Take can salmon. Pick to pieces with a fork and remove all 
skin and bones. In a buttered baking dish place a layer of salmon, 
then a layer of crumbs, the remaining salmon and the rest of the 
crumbs, and pour the milk over this. Bake until brown in a 
quick oven. 

Clam Chowder 

1 can clams 1 onion 

6 large potatoes 3 slices salt pork 

Cut the pork up fine and fry to a dark brown. Add the sliced 
onion and fry a light brown. Add the potatoes, sliced thin, and 
cover with water and cook until the potatoes are soft. Lastly add 
the clams and enough milk to make two quarts, season with salt 
and pepper. Let come to a boil and serve. 

13 



OYSTERS 

To clean oysters, drain off the liquor, straining it through a 
wire strainer if it is to be used. Rinse the oysters in a colander, 
using only half a cup of water to a quart of oysters to avoid 
washing away the flavor. Examine the gills to see that there are 
no bits of shell left clinging to them. Raw oysters are served 
with lemon juice or vinegar and red or black pepper as a first 
course at dinner or luncheon or for invalids. 

Oyster Stew 

1 pint oysters 2 tbsp. butter 

1 cup hot milk Salt and pepper 

Drain and rinse the oysters, strain the liquor and heat the 
oysters in it till their edges curl, remove the scum and turn the 
oysters and the liquid into the hot milk. Add butter and season- 
ing and serve with oyster crackers. 

Scalloped Oysters 

1 qt. oysters Salt and pepper 

Yz cup melted butter 5 or 6 tbsp. oyster liquor or 

2 cups crumbs oyster liquor and milk 

Mix crumbs with salt, pepper and butter. Put half the oysters 
in the bottom of a baking dish and cover with crumbs, then the 
remaining oysters and the rest of the crumbs. Pour the liquid 
over this and bake 20 minutes or until brown. 

Fried Oysters 

Select large oysters. Drain, roll in fine cracker crumbs, dip in 
beaten ^g^ and again in crumbs and fry in hot butter and lard. 

Creamed Oysters 

Scald the oysters in their own liquor. Skim out oysters and 
pour in some cream and scald. Thicken with a little flour and add 
salt and pepper to taste. 

Oyster Cocktail 

1 pint small oysters 4 tsp. lemon juice 

2 tsp. horse radish 4 drops tabasco sauce 
2 tsp. catsup Yz tsp. salt 

2 tsp. vinegar Serve in glasses or on the 

half shell 

14 



Oyster Rolls 

Pour a quart of water over a pint of oysters. Drain and dry 
with a clean cloth. Chop the oysters very fine and add 1 cup of 
soft bread crumbs, 1 saltspoon salt, a dusting of white pepper 
and of celery salt and a pinch of nutmeg. Mix to a stiff paste 
with the yolks of 2 eggs. Shape into small rolls and fry in hot 
butter. Serve with lemon in quarters. 

Oyster Pie 

Make a good rich paste, and with it line a deep pudding dish. 
Roll another sheet of paste nearly one-half inch thick and cut it a 
little larger round than the top of the dish. Butter the edges of 
the dish and fill the crusts with dry bread. Lay the cover on 
lightly. Bake. 
Filling : 

2 tbsp. butter 1 cup oyster liquor 

2 tbsp. flour % cup cream 

2 eggs beaten light 4 oysters to each person 

1 tsp, salt % tsp. vdiite pepper 

Cook the butter and the flour together till they bubble, then 
add the oyster liquor and the cream. Stir until smooth and then 
drop in the oysters. Cook till they begin to ruffle, then slowly 
add the eggs, the salt, and the pepper. Time the cooking of the 
crusts and filling so they will be done at the same time. Remove 
the bread crusts, fill the pie, replace the top, and serve at once. 

Creamed Fish 

% cup cold cooked flaked fish % cup milk 

1 tsp. butter Few drops onion juice 

1 tsp. flour Salt 

Make sauce of butter, flour and milk, add onion juice, salt 
and fish, then reheat. Serve in croustades of bread. 

Fish Chowder 

1 lb. haddock or cod 1 onion 

6 large potatoes 3 slices salt pork 

Cut the pork and onions fine and fry to a dark brown. Add 
the potatoes, sliced thin, cover with water and cook until potatoes 
are soft. Add shredded fish and hquid in which it has been 
cooked and enough heated milk to made two quarts, season with 
salt and pepper. Let come to a boil and serve. 

For lobster chowder, use lobster in place of fish. 



15 



MEATS 

When you roast beef, first rub it with salt and pepper, place it 
in a dripping pan and cook in a hot oven; baste occasionally, 
leaving the door open a few moments. 

In boiling meat, if it is fresh put it in hot water. Salt meats 
should be put in cold water. In both cases they should be kept 
boiling slowly and skimmed well. 

When buying beef to roast, by having the butcher take out the 
bones and putting the meat in shape with skewers, a good soup 
may be made of the bones. 

Should you have a roast that has become a little old, put 2 or 3 
tablespoons of vinegar in the dripping pan and sprinkle a little 
sugar on the bottom of the oven. The fumes will work wonders. 

In cooking steaks it is better to turn them several times on a 
platter containing a little olive oil than it is to hammer them. The 
object is not to force the juice out, but to soften the fiber. 

Meat that is frozen should always be thawed by placing in 
cold water. 

Keep a basin of water in the oven; the steam from the hot 
water not only prevents scorching but makes the meat look better. 

In boiling meat or fowl that is tough, put a tablespoon of vine- 
gar in the water you boil it in. It will make it very tender. 

Lamb and mutton chops are broiled like beefsteak; mutton 
chops may be slightly red in the middle. Lamb chops should be 
less rare. 

For a brown stew, the meat and sometimes the vegetables are 
browned in hot fat before being simmered. A brown stew without 
vegetables is a fricassee. 

The lean of good beef is firm and elastic, and, when first cut, 
purplish red, the surface becoming bright red and moist after 
exposure to the air. The best cuts for broiling are the steaks 
from the loin of beef (short, porterhouse, sirloin). 

In a chicken or young fowl the scales on the legs are yellow and 
soft and the breast bone yielding. 

In a young duck or goose the windpipe is brittle enough to snap 
readily between the thumb and finger, and the feet are soft and 
yellow. Neither ducks nor geese are good if more than one year 
old. 

16 




DIAGRAM SHOWING CUTS OF BEEF 



1 


& 2. Loin 


5. 


Top sirloin 


9. 


Neck 


13. 


Navel 


1. 


Sirloin 


6. 


Prime ribs 


10. 


Brisket 


14. 


Flank 


3. 


Rump 


7. 


Blade 


11. 


Cross-rib 


15. 


Shoulder 


4. 


Round 


8. 


Chuck 


12. 


Plate 


16. 


Leg (shin) 




DIAGRAM SHOWING CUTS 
OF VEAL 

A. Loin, best end for roasting 

B. Loin, chump end, for roasting 

C. Fillet, for baking or roasting 

D. Knuckle, for stewing 

E. Fore-knuckle, for stewing 

F. Neck, best end for roasting 

G. Neck, scrag end, for stewing 
H. Blade bone 

I. Breast, for stewing 
K. Brisket, for stewing 




DIAGRAM SHOWING CUTS 
OF MUTTON 

A. Leg, for boiling piece 

B. Loin, for roast 

C. Rump piece, for roast 

D. Chops, frying or broiling 

E. Fore-shoulder, for boiling 

F. Neck, for stewing or roasting 

G. Brisket, for stewing 




DIAGRAM SHOWING CUTS 
OF PORK 

A. Back, lean part for roast 

B. Loin, for roast 

C. Bacon, to be cured 

D. Shoulder, to be cured 

E. Ham, to be cured 

17 



Time Table for Cooking Meat 

Beef, filet, rare, 20 to 30 min. to the pound. 

Beef, sirloin, rare, 13 to 15 min. to the pound. 

Beef, sirloin, well done, 20 to 25 min. to the pound. 

Beef, corned, 30 min. per pound. 

Chicken, 1 hr. to 1^ hrs. per 3 or 4 pounds. 

Duck, 40 to 60 min. 

Duck, wild, 15 to 20 min. 

Goose, steam 1 hr. ; roast 2 hrs. 

Turkey, 3 hrs. per 10 pounds. 

Lamb, 15 min. per pound. 

Mutton, leg, boiled, 3^4 to 4 hrs. 

Pork, well done, 30 min. per pound. 

Veal, well done, 20 min. per pound. 

Broiled Steak 

Have the coals glowing hot, without flame or smoke. Grease 
a double broiler with steak fat. Put steak in and hold it near the 
coals for a few seconds. Turn the broiler, and hold the other 
side down for the same length of time. When well seared, hold 
it farther away from the fire, turning occasionally until the meat 
is browned. Just before taking it from the fire sprinkle with 
salt and pepper turning each side to the heat once more to cook 
in the seasoning. Lift to a warm platter, spread sides with butter, 
garnish if preferred and serve at once. For quick and efficient 
service use gas for broiling. 

Roast Beef 

Wipe beef with a clean cloth, skewer and place in a dripping 
pan with the skin side down, dredge meat and pan with flour. 
In the pan put 1 tbsp. salt and ^ tsp. pepper. If the meat is very 
lean, put in a few bits of fat. When the beef is seared and the 
flour brown, reduce the heat, and baste the meat about once in 
ten minutes till done. After the meat has been in the oven half 
an hour turn over to brown the skin side. 

After removing the roast to a plate, pour or skim ofif most of 
the fat from the liquid. Set the pan on the stove, and dredge 
with flour (about 3 tbsp.). Add 1^^ cups boiling water, and boil 
5 minutes stirring constantly. Add salt and pepper to taste and 
strain into a gravy boat. 

Pot Roast of Beef 

4 slices of salt pork cut in small pieces and fried till brown. 2 
small onions, fried till brown. Fry the pork in a kettle. Then the 
onions. Sear beef on both sides in the fat until brown. Pour on 
boiling water until the meat is well covered. Add more as this 
boils away. At dinner time let the water boil down till the meat 
fries once more. Take out the meat before it burns, then pour 
in water and thicken to make a rich brown gravy. 

18 



Dry Panned Steak 

Place pan on stove and heat it very hot. Rub with suet and put 
in the steak ; when seared, turn and. sear the other side. Cook at 
a high heat for 5 minutes, turning every minute. 

Hamburg Steak Loaf 

Put thin slices of bacon in the bottom of a bread tin and over 
this a layer an inch thick of hamburg steak which has been sea- 
soned with salt, pepper and onion. Put an equal amount of dress- 
ing over this that has been prepared like the dressing for stuffed 
chicken, then another layer of steak, then more bacon and lastly 
pour a little milk over all. Bake rare or well done according to 
taste. It will draw away from the sides of the pan and come out 
in the shape of a loaf. 

Beef Loaf 

2 lbs. lean beef Yi cup milk 

^ lb. salt port 1 ^gg 

1 cup cracker crumbs Salt and pepper to taste 

Put in a bread pan and bake 1 hour. 

Beef Loaf 

3 lbs. chopped raw beef 4 tbsp. milk 

1 cup cracker crumbs 1 tsp. sage 

3 well beaten eggs Yz tsp. pepper 

1 tbsp. salt Few bits of butter on crumbs 

Bake in a tin for 1^ or 2 hours. 

Beef RoU 

1 lb. beef steak chopped fine Yz cup bread crumbs 

1 ^gg Salt, pepper and sage 

Form into a roll and bake 45 minutes. 

Hamburg Steak 

2 lbs. hamburg steak 1 tsp. salt 

Y2 cup crumbs Ya tsp. pepper 

Ya cup milk 1 ^gg 

Bake 1 hour. This makes 1 loaf. 

Cottage Pie 

Chop cold meat of any kind. To every cup add Ya cup gravy 
and salt and pepper to taste. Cover the meat with a mashed 
potato crust and bake to a light brown. 

19 



Veal Stew 

Boil 33^ pounds of the breast of veal 1 hour in water enough 
to cover. Add a dozen potatoes and cook half an hour or until 
the potatoes are done. Before taking from the stove add 1 pint 
of milk and flour enough to thicken and season to taste. 

Veal Pie 

Make a crust as for chicken pie, bake in two pie pans. Place 
one of the crusts on a platter, pour the stew over this and place 
the other on top. 

Veal Loaf 
1 lb. veal Pinch of black pepper 

y^ lb. salt pork Salt to taste 

%. tsp. parsley 1 small onion 

Dash red pepper 1 tbsp. crumbs 

Cover top with bacon and bake 1 hour. 

Breaded Veal Cutlets 

Fry the cutlets until nearly done. Take out and dip into beaten 
tgg and then in crumbs with a little salt stirred in. Fry again 
turning often so as to get an even brown on both sides. Season 
if not salted enough. 

Cutlets may be served with tomatoes if desired. 

Veal Scallops 

Cut lean veal into pieces the size of oysters. Salt and pepper 
and add a little mace. Dip in tgg then in cracker crumbs and fry 
the same as oysters. 

Veal vvith Oysters 

Fry 2 lbs. veal cut in thin bits and dredged with flour in suffi- 
cient hot lard to prevent sticking. When nearly done add 1^ 
pints oysters, thicken with flour; salt and pepper to taste and 
cook until done. 

Roast Pork 
Small loin of pork ^ tsp. pepper 

3 tbsp. bread crumbs 1 oz. chopped suet 

1 onion tchopped 
y2 tsp. salt 

Separate each joint of the loin with a chopper and make a deep 
incision into the thick part of the pork for the stuffing. Prepare 
the stuffing by mixing the crumbs with the onion, add the sage, 
pepper, salt, and suet, and when all is well mixed press the mix- 
ture into the pork. Sew edges together and bake in a dry baking 
pan in a brisk oven, basting occasionally. Bake 30 minutes for 
each pound and then 30 minutes more. 

20 



Roast Sparerib 

Trim off the rough ends. Crack the ribs across the middle. 
Rub with salt and sprinkle with pepper ; fold over and stuff with 
turkey dressing. Sew up tightly and place in a dripping pan with 
a pint of water. Baste frequently, turning over once so both 
sides will be brown. 

Boiled Leg of Mutton 

Cover mutton leg with boiling water and let come to a boil. 
Boil 5 minutes. Skim and simmer until meat is tender. This may 
be served with a caper sauce made by adding V/i cups drained 
capers to lj!/2 cups drawn butter made with mutton liquor. 

Roast Lamb 

Let lamb heat through slowly in a moderate oven. Dredge with 
flour, then quicken fire. Put a pint of water into the dripping pan 
with a teaspoon of salt. Baste the meat occasionally. Roast 15 
or 20 minutes to each pound. Make a gravy as for any roast, 
add a mint or bay leaf if desired. 

Lamb Stew with Peas 

Cut neck or breast veal in pieces and place in a stew pan with 
some salt pork sliced thin and enough water to cover it. Let stew 
till tender. Skim and add a quart of green shelled peas, more 
hot water, if necessary, and cover till the peas are tender. Add 
a bit of butter rolled in flour and pepper to taste. Let simmer a 
few moments and serve. 

Lamb Scallop 

Chop cold lamb and add any gravy that may have been left 
over, seasoning to taste. In a dish put a layer of meat, a layer 
of crumbs and a layer of cooked tomatoes until all is used. Cover 
with buttered crumbs, and bake until brown. 

Boiled Ham 

For a 10 pound ham wash and boil gently for 3 hours. Remove 
the skin and put the ham in a large pan in a moderate oven until 
brown. It improves it if whole cloves are placed in it before 
baking. 

Ham and Eggs 

Fry % lb, fresh ham cut in small cubes and 1 small onion sliced 
fine. Add 6 slightly beaten eggs and scramble the eggs and ham 
together. Cubes of boiled ham may be used instead of the fresh 
ham. 

21 



Chicken. Pie 

Cook fowl in salted water till tender. Take out largest bones, 
place meat in baking dish in layers with butter, salt and pepper 
until the pan is 7^ full. Pour in chicken broth and cover with 
the following crust. 

Chicken Pie Crust 

Sift 4 tsp. cream tartar and 2 tsp. soda with 1 large quart flour. 
Rub in butter the size of a large egg and mix with sweet milk to 
make a stiff batter. Wet the edge of a baking dish, cover chicken 
with batter and cut slit in center for the steam to escape. Bake 
30 minutes. 

Jellied Chicken 

To 3 pints of cold chicken stock add beaten whites of 2 eggs 
and 1 box gelatine which has been soaked in a cup of water 1 
hour. Heat all together and skim ; add chicken, cooked and cut 
up fine, season with onion, celery salt, salt and pepper, and when 
the gelatine begins to harden, pour all into a mold. 

Fried Chicken 

Cut up a young chicken ; season with salt and pepper and dip 
each piece in a beaten egg, then in cracker crumbs. Mix butter 
and lard enough to fry the chicken in and heat boiling hot. Fry 
the chicken slowly till both sides are well browned. Place the 
chicken in a covered dish and thicken the gravy with a large 
tablespoon flour and add a cup of sweet cream, salt, and pepper. 
Pour over the chicken and serve very hot. If the chicken is old 
simmer in a little water until tender before frying. 



Broiled Chickens 

Split spring chickens down through the breast. Wash and wipe 
thoroughly and rub both sides with salt; dredge with flour, and 
put in a baking pan with a little water. When nearly cooked, 
remove to a buttered broiler and brown over hot coals. 



Poultry and Game 

In market terms, chicken not more than five months old is 
"spring chicken"; chicken over a year is fowl. Full grown 
poultry is finer in flavor than young chickens. In a chicken or 
young fowl the scales on the legs are yellow and soft and the 
breastbone yielding. Pin feathers are usually an indication that 
the chicken is young. 

22 



In a young duck or goose the windpipe is brittle enough to snap 
readily between the thumb and finger, and the feet are soft and 
yellow. Neither ducks nor geese are good if more than one year 
old. 

Chicken Fricassee 

1 fowl 2 tsp. salt 

1 qt. boiling water 2 tsp. parsley cut fine 

1 small onion Sprigs of parsley for garnish- 

ing 

Cut the chicken in pieces. Brown the onion in a little fat and 
put with chicken meat and bones. Add water and let simmer till 
nearly evaporated. (About 1 hr.) Take out the bone, pour off 
the liquid and let the meat and sediment brown delicately, stirring 
and turning the pieces. Then pour back the liquid with enough 
water to make 2 or 3 cupfuls in all. Add salt and simmer for 
another hour. Arrange the pieces on a platter, neck and tail in 
the center, breast pieces and wishbone on top of these, second 
joints at one end of the dish, legs crossed at the other, and wings 
and side pieces at either side. Thicken the gravy with flour 
and pour over the chicken. Sprinkle and garnish with parsley. 
The fricassee may be served in a border of rice. 

Chicken Stew 

Prepare like chicken fricassee, except do not brown the chicken. 
Reduce the liquid to 1^ cupfuls and add 1 cup milk and thicken 
with 4 tbsp. flour. Stewed chicken, lacking the flavor of browned 
meat, is better served on toast than with the comparatively taste- 
less rice. 

Creamed Chicken 

Melt 1 tbsp. butter, add 1 tbsp. flour, pour in slowly 1 cup hot 
milk or cream. Add salt and pepper and 1 cup chicken meat cut 
into small pieces. 

Roast Turkey 

After singeing the turkey, plump it by plunging it quickly three 
times in boiling water and three times in cold, holding it by the 
legs. Drain and dress. Prepare the stuffing by taking pieces of 
dry bread and crust (not too brown). Place in a pan and pour 
on a little boiling water, cover tightly with a cloth and let stand 
until soft ; add a large lump of butter, salt and pepper, and one 
or two fresh eggs and the bread from which the crust was cut 
so as not to have it too moist. Mix well and season to suit taste 
with salt, pepper and sage. Rub the inside of the turkey with 
salt and a little pepper, and stufif. Sew up each slit with a strong 

23 



thread ; tie the legs down firmly, and press the wings closely to the 
sides, securing them with a cord tied around the body or with 
skewers. Steam from one to three hours or until easily pierced 
with a fork. Place the turkey in a pan with water from the drip- 
ping pan in which the turkey was steamed ; butter the turkey, 
sprinkle with salt and pepper, dredge with flour, and if there is 
not enough water in the pan, keep adding boiling water, basting 
often. Cook until a nice brown and perfectly tender. Remove to 
a hot platter and serve with cranberry sauce. 

Skim off most of the fat of the gravy, and add water if neces- 
sary. Chop the heart, gizzard, and liver (previously boiled in 
water for 2 hours) and add to the gravy with the water in which 
they were boiled. Season with salt and pepper and add a smooth 
thickening of flour and water and stir constantly until the flour 
is well cooked. 

Roast Goose 

Take a 10 pound goose and wash thoroughly. After cleaning, 
put it in a large kettle with a little water and steam till tender. 
While steaming, prick with a fork every little while to let out 
the oil. When ready, take out and stuff the same as turkey and 
set in oven. Cook slowly 2 hours, basting every few minutes. 

Carving 

To carve well, a good knife of moderate size and great sharp- 
ness is a necessity. Fowls are easily carved. In roasts such as 
loins, breasts, fore-quarters, etc., the butcher should always have 
instructions to separate the joints. The platter should be placed 
so near to the carver that he has full control over it; if far off 
nothing can prevent an ungraceful appearance. In carving a tur- 
key, place the head to the right, cut off the wing nearest you first, 
then the leg and second joint; then slice the breast until a round 
ivory-shaped piece appears ; insert the knife between that and the 
bone and separate them ; this part is the nicest bit of the breast ; 
next comes the "merry thought." After this, turn over the bird 
a little, and just below the breast you will find the "oyster," which 
you can separate as you did the inner breast. The side bone lies 
beside the rump, and the desired morsel can be taken out without 
separating the whole bone. Proceed in the same way upon the 
other side. The fork need not be removed during the whole pro- 
cess. An experienced carver will dissect a fowl as easily as you 
can break an egg or cut a potato. He retains his seat, manages 
his hands and elbows artistically, and is perfectly at his ease. 

A fillet of veal is cut in thin, smooth slices off the top, and por- 
tions of the stuffing and fat are served to each. In cutting a 
breast of veal, separate the breast and brisket, and then cut them 
up. 

24 




Ham 

A ham may be carved three ways : First, by cutting long deli- 
cate slices, through the thick fat from 1 to 2, down to the bone ; 
secondly, by running the point of the knife in the middle, and cut- 
ting thin circular slices, thus keeping the ham moist ; and last, and 
most economically, by beginning at the knuckle, 4 to 5, and slic- 
ing upward. 




Leg of Mutton 

In carving a leg of mutton the best slices are obtained from the 
center, by cutting from 1 to 2 ; and some very good cuts are found 
on the broad end from 5 to 6. Some epicures prefer slices nearer 
the knuckle, but they are dry. The cramp bone is a delicacy, and 
is obtained by cutting down to the bone at 4, and running the 
knife under it in a semicircular direction to 3. The fat so 
esteemed by many lies on the ridge 5. By turning over the meat 
some excellent slices are found, and can be cut lengthwise. 




Tongue 

A tongue may be carved as "thin as a wafer," its deiicacy de- 
pending in a great degree upon that. A well-cut tongue tempts 
the most fastidious ; and this applies, in fact, to all kinds of roast 
and boiled meats. A chunk of beef we turn from with disgust ; 

25 



an artistic slice we enjoy. The center slices of the tongue are 
considered the best, and should be cut across at the line 1, and 
the slices taken from each side, with a portion of the fat which 
is at the root, if it is liked. The question should be asked. 




Sirloin of Beef 

In carving beef, mutton, lamb, and veal, thin, smooth, and neat 
slices are desirable — cut across the grain, taking care to pass the 
knife through to the bones of the meat. There are two modes 
of helping a sirloin of beef ; either by carving long, thin slices 
from 3 to 4, and helping it with a bit of the fat underneath the 
ribs, or by cutting thicker slices, from 1 to 2, through the tender- 
loin. 




Shoulder of Mutton 

A shoulder of mutton should be cut down to the bone, in the 
direction of the line 1, and then thin slices of lean taken from 
each side. The best fat is found at 2, and should be cut in thin 
slices in that direction. Several tempting slices can be cut on 
either side of the line 3, and there are nice bits on the under side 
near the flap. 



86 



VEGETABLES 

Vegetables, like fruits, contain mineral salts important to 
health. Too many cooks think only of getting vegetables soft, 
without regard to retaining their juices and salts. Vegetables 
cooked in water lose a large proportion of their foodstuffs. 

When selecting vegetables in the market, choose only those that 
are in season. Choose medium sized or small vegetables. Large 
vegetables are usually old and woody ; they require more fuel to 
cook them and are less nutritious than younger ones. Large 
squashes and cucumbers are seedy ; corn with large kernels is 
tough. Stale or wilted vegetables are never economical and are 
unwholesome. 

If you get your vegetables from the garden, gather them when 
the dew is on them. 

Cook vegetables whole when practicable, or cut them into as 
large pieces as convenient. Use only as much water as is neces- 
sary to cover the vegetable. For small or cut-up vegetables, that 
can be stirred, use just enough to keep them from burning, adding 
more as this cooks away. 

Green vegetables keep their color better if cooked uncovered. 
Cook onions and cabbage uncovered ; their odor is less noticeable. 

The time required to cook any vegetable depends on its age, 
size and freshness. Old beets may be woody so that they cannot 
be cooked tender. 

Asparagus 

Stalks should be green; the ends should show that they have 
been recently cut. To keep for a short time, stand ends in cold 
water. 

Cut stalks off as far down as they are brittle. Untie the 
bunches, wash stalks and retie them in bunches right to serve to 
one person. Tie these into one bunch again and stand in cold 
water till put on to cook. 

Stand the asparagus in a deep kettle and pour in boiling water 
to cover all but the tips. Let it boil tightly covered till the stalks 
are tender. The steam will cook the heads. Cook for about 45 
minutes. Drain, butter, and. serve on strips of buttered toast. 

Lima Beans 

Buy green, with juicy pods and small veined beans. Wash and 
shell. Cook uncovered in barely enough water to cover them. 
Let the water boil down when nearly done and add salt to taste. 

27 



Cook from ] to 13^ hours and serve without draining. Season 
with butter and pepper. 

Potatoes 

Potatoes must be cooked till soft all through. Rapidly boiling 
water wears off the outside of the potato before the inside is 
cooked. Let it bubble gently. Potatoes baked in a slow oven 
become dry and hard. Quickly baked potatoes are more easily 
digested than boiled potatoes. 

Mashed Potato 

Mash in the kettle in which the potatoes were cooked. When 
free from lumps, add for each pint of mashed potato : 

1 tbsp. melted butter ^4 to ^ tsp. salt 

3 tbsp. scalded milk Pinch of pepper " 

Beat all together till light and creamy. Heap in a dish without 
smoothing the top; or put in a baking dish, brush the top with 
milk and brown in a hot oven. 

Stuffed Potatoes 

Roast large potatoes (one to each person). Cut in halves 
lengthwise and take out the pulp, being careful not to break 
the skins. Mash in a bowl and mix with salt and pepper and a 
little milk or cream. Put the pulp back in the skins, score with 
a fork or put it back with a potato ricer. Brush with milk or 
egg, set in the oven and brown on top. 

Stuffed Peppers 

Cut green peppers in two lengthwise. Remove every seed 
carefully and soak the peppers in cold water for half an hour. 
Dry them and fill with a stuffing made from bread crumbs, sea- 
soned with sage, onion juice, pepper and salt. Chopped meat may 
be added if desired. Place in buttered pan and bake till brown 
on top, moistening once or twice with melted butter. 

Baked Beans 

Soak 3 cups white beans over night in cold water. Pour off 
water in the morning and cover with cold water. Boil until skins 
pop open when blown upon ; pour off that water and cover with 
boiling water; add 3 tablespoons molasses, 1 teaspoon salt, 54 
teaspoon soda, % teaspoon mustard and a piece of pork. Bake all 
day in a slow oven, being sure not to let bake dry. 

Baked Tomatoes 

Wipe and remove a thin slice from the stem end of 6 ripe 
tomatoes. Take out seeds and pulp and drain off most of the 
liquid. Add an equal quantity of cracker crumbs with the pulp 

28 



and season with salt and pepper and a little onion juice. Refill 
the tomatoes with the mixture and bake in a buttered pan for 20 
minutes in a hot oven. Sprinkle tomatoes with buttered crumbs 
before baking. 

Stuffed Tomatoes and Rice 

Select firm, ripe tomatoes of even size, cut a slice from the top 
of each and scoop out the center. Boil 2 tablespoons of rice in 1 
quart of boiling water for 10 minutes, then drain ; melt 2 table- 
spoons butter in a small pan, add a few bits of chopped onion, 
also 1 or 2 green peppers, (according to size and taste after the 
seeds have been removed). After frying the onion and pepper 
in the butter for about 5 minutes add the scooped part of the 
tomato and rice; season with salt and pepper. Fill the tomatoes 
with this mixture and place in a buttered pan with the open tops 
of the tomatoes down. Brush over with melted butter and bake 
about 25 minutes. 

Cauliflower 

Select a close, white cauliflower, trim off decayed leaves and cut 
stalk off flat at bottom. Open the flower a little in places to re- 
move insects which are generally found near the stalk. Let lie 
with head downward in salted water for about 2 hours to remove 
all vermin. Then put in boiling water, salted and boil briskly 
for 15 or 20 minutes, keeping the sauce pan uncovered. The 
water should be well skimmed. When the cauliflower is tender, 
take up, drain, and stand upright in a dish. Pour a thin white 
sauce over it or it may be served with plain melted butter. Cauli- 
flower makes a good garnish for chicken or sweetbreads. 

Dandelions 

They are fit for use until they blossom. Cut off the leaves, pick 
over carefully and wash in several waters. Put in boiling water 
and boil one hour. Drain well and boil two hours in salted boiling 
water. Drain, season with butter and more salt if needed and 
cut with a knife ; or boil with a piece of salt pork and omit the 
butter in the dressing. 

String Beans 

The pod should be brittle, the string should be delicate and the 
beans very small. Wash, pull off the strings and snap or cut the 
pods into inch pieces. Cook in barely enough water to cover, 
letting this boil down when the beans are nearly cooked. Salt 
when nearly done. For young beans cook 1 hour; for old ones, 
3 to 3 hours. Serve without draining and season with butter and 
pepper. 

Com 

The silk should be brown. Remove outer husks as soon as it 
comes from the market. Cook as soon as possible as corn is 

29 



injured by keeping. Cook in boiling water from 5 to 15 minutes. 
If cooked in salted water the corn will become wrinkled and 
hardened. 

Beets 

Choose those with dirty roots and fresh, green, leaves. If the 
roots are clean, the beets have probably wilted and been freshened 
by soaking. Wash, taking care not to break the skin. Cut tops 
off about 2 inches above the root. If cut short the beets will lose 
color and sweetness. Cook in boiling water 1 hour for young 
beets, 4 or 5 hours for old ones. Rub off the skins with a dry 
cloth. Slice large beets, quarter small ones. Season with butter, 
salt, and pepper. 

Cabbage 

Choose a hard, heavy one with crisp, white, leaves, and stalk 
cut close to the head. Remove outer leaves, cut out stalk, and 
separate inner leaves, removing any insects found. Cook un- 
covered in boiling salted water for about 20 minutes or until tender 
but not sodden. Drain, and season with butter, salt and pepper 
or mix with a thin white sauce. 

Summer Carrots 

Wash and scrape, and drop into cold water. Cook in boiling 
water from 30 minutes to an hour. Serve in a thin white sauce 
or with green peas. 

Winter Carrots 

Wash and scrape and cut into half-inch cubes. Cook in a small 
quantity of boiling water for 20 or 30 minutes and serve in a 
thin white sauce. Peas and carrot cubes are a good garnish for 
meat. 

Peas 

See that the pods are green and brittle and the peas green. 
Cook as soon as possible. Peas are injured by keeping. Wash 
the pods before shelling and cook in barely enough water to cover 
them, adding salt 15 minutes before taking from the fire. Let 
the water boil down when peas are nearly cooked. Serve without 
draining; season with butter and pepper. Should the peas lack 
sweetness, add ^^ to 1 teaspoon sugar to each half peck of peas 
while cooking. 

Spinach 

Choose spinach with leaves that are fresh and dirty. If clean 
they have wilted and been soaked to revive them. Cut off roots, 
stems and poor leaves; wash by lifting from one pan of cold 
water to another till water is free from sand. Cook in its own 
juices, heating it gradually till these are drawn out. Cook for 
about 15 minutes. Rather old spinach may be better cooked in 
water and dramed. Season with butter, salt and pepper. 

80 



Summer Squash 

The shell should be tender enough to be broken with the finger 
nail. Wash, cut into pieces and pare. Cook in a steamer or a 
strainer over boihng water fo-r 30 minutes. Mash, season with 
butter, salt and pepper. If very watery, press out juice by 
squeezing between the colander and the plate* 

Winter Squash* 

Choose sound ones with no- soft spots. If you buy a quantity, 
keep spread out in a dry place. Break into pieces, take out shreds 
and seeds ; and steam like summer squash for about 40 minutes. 
Scoop out inner part. Rub through a colander, and season with 
butter, salt and pepper. 

Tomatoes 

The best ones are firm, smooth and evenly red, with no decayed, 
bruised or green spots. Let them stand in boiling water for one 
minute to loosen the skins. Peel and cut into pieces. Simmer 
them for about 20 minutes and add for each pint of tomatoes, 
1 tbsp. butter, 14 tsp. salt, a few grains of pepper, and 1 or 3 tsp. 
sugar. To thicken, stir in 2 tbsp. of sifted cracker crumbs, or 
omit the crumbs and serve on buttered toast. 

Macaroni 

Break macaroni into inch pieces. Boil until soft in salted water. 
Drain and rinse in cold water over a colander to separate the 
macaroni and to prevent sticking together. Place in a dish and 
pour hot white sauce over it. Season with butter, salt, and pepper, 

Italian, Spaghetti 

1 lb. spaghetti 1 Spanish onion 1 tbsp. sugar 

1 can tomato 1 green pepper with seeds 1 dash red pepper 
1 crumb garlic removed Butter size of walnut 

Boil spaghetti until tender. Make sauce of above ingredients, 
pour over spaghetti, and bake for 30 minutes. 

Time Table for Cooking Vegetables 

Asparagus 30 min. Oyster plant 1 hr. 

Beans (string, shelled) 1 hr. Parsnips 45 min. 

Beans, lima 45-60 min. Peas, dried (baked) 6-8 hrs. 

Beans, dried (baked) 6-8 hrs. Peas (green) 30 min. 

Beets (young) 45 min. Potatoes, med, 30 min. 

Beets (old) 2 hrs. Potatoes, med. (baked) 

Brussels sprouts 15-20 min, 60 min. 

Cabbage (young) ) 30 min. Sweet potatoes, boiled 45 min. 

Cabbage (old) 45-60 min. Squash, summer 30 min. 

Carrots (young) 45 min. Squash winter, steamed or 

Carrots (old) 2 hrs. baked 1 hr. 

Cauliflower 1 hr. Spinach and other greens 

Celery 20-30 min. 30-45 min. 

Corn (sweet, young) 12 min. Tomatoes 30 min. 

Lentils, dried (baked) 6-8 hrs. Turnips (young) 1 hr. 

Onions 45 min. Turnips (old) 2 hrs, 

31 



SALADS 

While the food value of a green salad is not large, the salts it 
supplies, and its appetizing qualities, make it a very wholesome 
food. The oil or butter used in dressing it furnishes fat in a 
digestible form. The acid vinegar is a great aid to digestion. 
If you cannot have salad every day, have it as often as you can. 
Some people now have salad instead of dessert, and if you cannot 
have both at the same dinner it is well to substitute salad for a 
pudding two or three times a week at least. 

By using originality and invention, one can produce many a 
salad not described in cook books, but delightful to eye and taste. 

Cooked Salad Dressing (without oil) 

^ tsp. mustard 1 tsp. sugar 

Yi. tsp. salt Yoke of one ^gg 

Few grains of cayenne ^ cup milk 

2 tsp. flour 2 tsp. melted butter 

y^ cup hot vinegar 

Mix the dry ingredients in a saucepan, stir in the yolk of ^gg, 
butter and milk. Stir the mixture over hot water until it begins 
to thicken, then stir in the vinegar, a few drops at a time. When 
as thick as cream, strain and cool. 

Cream Salad Dressing 

2 eggs well beaten 1 tsp. salt 

1 tbsp. sugar ^ cup of vinegar 

1 tsp. mustard 1 tbsp. melted butter 

Cook in a double boiler until creamy. Cool and add Yt. cup of 
whipped cream. 

Emergency Salad Dressing 

1 tsp. dry mustard Y^ tsp. pepper 

Yz tsp. salt 1 or 2 tsp. sugar 

Add very slowly 1 cup of cream, working it gradually with the 
dry ingredients. Now add, also by degrees, 1 tablespoon vinegar 
or more if liked, stirring well. Make just before using. 

Mayonnaise Dressing 

Yolk of one ^gg, beat, adding all the while a few drops of oil 
at a time. When it grows thick and stiff the oil may be added 
faster till desired amount of dressing is obtained. Add lemon 
juice and salt to taste. 

38 



Mayonnaise Dressing 

Yolks of 2 eggs well beaten, 1 teaspoon yellow mustard, 1 tea- 
spoon salt, 1 tablespoon flour, pinch of sugar, and a pinch of cay- 
enne pepper. Rub all together until light. Add ^ cup of sour 
cream or sweet milk will do and ^ cup of vinegar. Put over a 
fire until it comes to a boil. Stir constantly. Take from fire and 
add butter the size of an egg and beat well. When cold, add 
olive oil to taste for chicken salad ; for salmon or fish salad, add 
lemon juice, and for vegetable salad add equal parts of whipped 
cream. 

Mayonnaise Dressing for Two 

Break the yolk of a fresh egg into a small deep bowl and add 
4 tablespoons salad oil, 1 tablespoon vinegar, ^ teaspoon salt. 
Whip with an egg beater 1 minute. 

French Dressing 

4 tbsp. salad oil /^ tsp. salt 

1 tbsp. lemon juice ^ tsp. pepper 

Put salt and pepper in a bowl and stir oil into it until it is 
dissolved. Add lemon juice and stir until it thickens. This 
dressing must be used at once. 

Tomato and Cheese Salad 

Mash cream cheese and moisten with sweet cream, season with 
salt and pepper and chopped green peppers. Roll into small 
balls, put inside of ripe tomatoes, and pour a French dressing over 
all. 

Tomato Jelly Salad 

1 quart can of tomatoes, boiled 30 minutes, flavored with one 
bay leaf, 3^ teaspoon sugar, a little salt and pepper and 5 cloves. 
Soak Ys box of silver white gelatine in cold water and add, stirr- 
ing until dissolved; add 2 tablespoons of vinegar and strain. 
Pour into small wet molds and harden, serve individually on 
lettuce leaves with mayonnaise dressing. 

Salad of Salmon 

Buy a slice of salmon 4 inches thick ; fold in a cloth, put in a 
kettle of cold water and cook slowly for 10 or 15 minutes. Re- 
move from kettle and when cold place the fish in a deep platter 
surrounded with crisp lettuce leaves. Cover with mayonnaise 
dressing and garnish with capers, pitted olives, hard-boiled eggs 
cut in quarters and lemons cut in the same way. 

33 



Lobster Salad 

Cut lobster meat in small pieces, mix with oil dressing and 
place on ice. When ready to serve, place a tablespoonful of the 
lobster meat on a leaf of lettuce, cover with mayonnaise dressing, 
and garnish with hard boiled eggs. 

Fruit Salad 

Yz can pineapple 3 apples 

3 oranges Yz head celery 

Cut all in small pieces. Add Yz cup of walnut meats, juice of 
a lemon and salt to taste. Mix with a thick cream dressing and 
serve immediately. 

Salmon Salad 

1 can salmon flaked fine ^ tbsp. vinegar 

1 tbsp. lemon juice Salt and pepper to taste 

Form into parts and set away. When ready to serve, place on 
lettuce leaves and cover with cream dressing. 

Potato Salad 

Cut potatoes in half-inch cubes. Season with salt and pepper 
and mix with salad dressing. Place in a salad bowl, on lettuce 
leaves, garnish with hard-boiled eggs sliced, or with radishes 
cut in rose shape, or with sprigs of parsley, or all three may be 
used. 

Beet Salad 

Take 6 cold boiled beets and chop fine. Add 3 hard-boiled eggs 
chopped, and mix with salad dressing. Line a salad bowl with 
chilled leaves of lettuce and place the salad in the bowl. Garnish 
with rings made of the whites of 3 hard-boiled eggs and put the 
yokes through the potato ricer and place on top. 

Cabbage Salad 

Soak one-half of a small, hard cabbage in cold water for 30 
minutes. Shred it fine with a sharp knife or vegetable shredder, 
and mix a cupful of hot salad dressing with it. Serve cold. 

Rice Salad 

To 3 cups cold boiled rice add 1 cup finely diced beets, 1 cup 
chopped celery and a sliced cucumber. Green peas, lima beans, or 
any fresh vegetable may be used with rice for a foundation. Add 
dressing enough to moisten well. 

84 



Banana Salad 

Peel as many bananas as you have people to serve. Roll in 
nuts which have been chopped fine. Place in a lettuce leaf a 
banana which has been rolled, cover with salad dressing and 
sprinkle on a few more nuts. 

Tomato Salad 

Scoop out the tops of as many good sized tomatoes as you have 
people to serve, and fill the cavity with chopped walnut meats. 
Put each on a lettuce leaf, add salad dressing to your taste and 
sprinkle over all chopped green peppers. 

Waldorf Salad 

Clean a bunch of celery and a head of lettuce, and keep fresh 
in a wet napkin on ice. When ready to serve, cut the celery in 
crescent-shaped pieces and mix with diced apple and crumpled 
pecans or walnuts. Mix with mayonnaise dressing. Line a glass 
salad bowl with the lettuce and arrange salad in a mound in the 
center, cover with mayonnaise dressing and garnish with thin 
rings or crescents of red-skinned apple, celery tips, and whole 
nut meats. 

Tunny Fish Salad 

To one can of tunny fish add an equal amount of chopped 
celery. Mix well with salad dressing. If tomatoes are in season, 
this may be served in a tomato shell and garnish with a sprig of 
parsley. 

Vegetable Salad 

Place crisp lettuce leaves on a flat dish. Slice raw tomatoes, 
add a layer of sliced cucumbers, then another layer of tomatoes. 
Serve with an oil dressing and garnish with hard-boiled eggs. 

Chicken Salad 

Cut cold chicken into small pieces, add ^ amount of chopped 
celery, 3 hard-boiled eggs, salt and pepper. Mix with dressing 
and serve on crisp lettuce leaves. 

Mock Chicken Salad 

Chop cold roast pork or veal, mix with equal part of chopped 
celery, and 2 hard-boiled eggs. Add salt and pepper and cover 
with y^ can of green peas. Serve with dressing. 

35 



Nut Salad 

Chop nuts and mix with an equal quantity of chopped celery. 
Add baby pitted olives and serve on lettuce with mayonnaise 
dressing. 

Watermelon Salad 

Cut the heart of a thoroughly chilled watermelon into cubes and 
put in a salad bowl. Sprinkle with 1 cup sugar, Yz teaspoon salt, 
^ grated nutmeg, and pour over all the juice of 3 large oranges. 

Macedoine Salad 

Cold cooked peas, carrots, beets, string beans ; almost any cold 
vegetables may be combined in this salad. 

Cut beets and carrots in half-inch cubes, string beans and celery 
in short lengths, mix each vegetable separately with French or 
cream dressing, and arrange them in sections, forming a circular 
mound. Let vegetables of contrasting color come next each 
other. Garnish with radishes, celery tips, lettuce leaves, etc. 

Stuffed Tomato Salad 

Scald and peel tomatoes ; slice off the tops and scrape out their 
seeds. Fill the cavities heaping full with sliced celery or cucum- 
ber mixed with mayonnaise dressing. Arrange on a platter or 
on separate plates in nests of tender lettuce leaves. 

Stuffed Banana Salad 

Take firm, smooth-skinned bananas and remove the skin care- 
fully. Dice the pulp and mix with chopped nuts and salad dress- 
ing. Replace the pulp in the skins and garnish with celery tips 
and serve on lettuce leaves. 



Tutti-Frutti Salad 

Arrange on a platter in any tasteful manner sliced pineapple, 
bananas, oranges, grapes, and any other fruits in season. Make 
a syrup and pour over it. The syrup, in a few hours, penetrates 
the juice and absorbs the flavor of each in a measure and is 
delicious. 

Pineapple Salad 

Slice pineapple, remove the center and place a slice on a lettuce 
leaf. Fill the center with cream dressing. Serve on individual 
plates. 

36 



BREAD AND ROLLS 

White Bread 

3 or 3)^2 cups flour 2 tbsp. lukewarm water 

Yi cup cold water ^ cake compressed yeast 

Yz cup milk Yz tsp, salt 

Scald the milk; sift and measure the flour; put the salt in a 
bowl and pour the milk on it. Add the cold water, then the yeast 
mixed thoroughly and smoothly with the warm water. After 
stirring all together, stir in enough flour to make a drop batter. 
Beat this batter until it is full of bubbles ; then beat in gradually 
enough more flour to make a rather soft dough. When too stiff 
to beat, rub a little flour on the molding board, and turn the dough 
out. 

Dust a little flour on the dough and on the palms of the hands. 
Fold the edge of the dough farthest from you toward the center 
of the mass, immediately pressing the dough down and away 
from you with a gentle rolling motion with the palms of the hands, 
twice repeated. Turn the dough so that what was the right-hand 
part of it will be farthest away from you ; fold over and knead 
as before ; continue to do this, turning the dough and flouring the 
hands, the board, and the dough, to keep the batter from sticking. 
Should it stick to the board, scrape it free with a dull knife, and 
flour the board anew. Knead the dough until it does not stick 
to your hands or the board, and is smooth on the surface and 
feels spongy and elastic. It should rise quickly after being in- 
dented. 

Replace the dough ball in the bowl, brush the top with water, 
cover the bowl with several thicknesses of cloth and set it near 
the stove or in a pan of warm water, turning another pan over it. 

When the dough has risen to twice its original bulk, lift it on 
the board and shape into small loaves, handling lightly and using 
little or no flour. Put into pans, and let it stand in a warm place 
covered with a thick, clean cloth, until it has again doubled in bulk. 

When nearly risen, test the oven ; it should be hot enough to 
turn a piece of writing paper brown in 6 minutes. Bake small 
French loaves 35 minutes ; brick loaves, 4 inches thick, 50 to 60 
minutes. Turn the pans if the bread does not bake evenly. 

Entire Wheat Bread 

1 pt. warm water 2 tsp. salt 

Yz cup sugar ^ yeast cake 

3 pts. sifted flour 

Put to rise at night. In the morning mold into 2 loaves, let 
rise till twice the size of the original loaf and bake in a moderate 
oven 1^ hours. 

37 



Graham Bread 

1 cup sour milk ^ cup molasses 

1 cup sweet milk 1 tsp. salt 

1 tsp. soda ^ cup wheat flour 

yi cup sugar 

Add enough graham flour to make a batter a little thicker than 
for cake. 









Graham Bread 




2 

1 


cupj 
cup 
tsp. 


> sour milk 1 
molasses 1 
soda 3 


tsp. salt 

cup pastry flour 

cups graham flour 



Mix, and let rise about half an hour before baking. 

Nut Bread 

3 cups flour ^2 cup sugar 

3 tsp. baking powder ^ cup chopped nut meats 

1 tsp. salt 1% cups milk 
Bake at once. 

Nut Bread 

1 t^gg ^ cup milk 

^ cup sugar 2 cups flour 

% cup cream 2 tsp. baking powder 

(with flour) 

Add 1 cup peanuts or 1 cup of walnut meats that have been put 
through the food chopper. Beat well, pour into well-buttered tins, 
let rise 25 minutes and bake in a moderate oven. 

Brown Bread 

2^ cups sour milk % cup molasses 

2 cups rye meal and 2 cups 3 tsp. soda 

Indian meal sifted together 
Steam 3 hours. 

Klondike Brown Bread 

1 tsp. salt 2 cups sweet milk 

2 eggs (beaten) 1 cup corn meal 
y2 cup molasses 3 cups flour 

Mix all together and add at least 1 teaspoon baking soda dis- 
solved in a little boiling water. Put in buttered tins and steam 
4 hours. 

Oatmeal Bread 

1 cup rolled oats 1 tbsp. shortening (lard) 

3 cups boiling water 1 tsp. salt 

Yi cup molasses Yz cake yeast 

38 



Add boiling water to oats, shortening and molasses, and let 
stand an hour, or until cool. Add yeast and mix stiff, with bread 
flour. In the morning knead into loaves and bake 1 hour. This 
recipe makes 3 loaves. 

Rye Bread 

Make sponge as for wheat bread, let rise over night, then mix 
it with rye flour (not so stiff as wheat bread), and bake in a 
moderate oven. 

Plain Bread Rolls, Finger Rolls and Bread Sticks 

Shape from white bread dough after its first rising. Cut or 
pull off pieces the size of an egg; draw up and pinch the edges 
together, forming balls; then with your hand roll each into a 
cylindrical shape on the board. Put into French roll pans, let 
rise until more than doubled in bulk, and bake from 12 to 15 
minutes. Or, put the balls on a flat pan, and when they have risen, 
cut a cleft nearly an inch deep across the top of each one. Bake 
12 to 15 minutes. For finger rolls, roll pieces of dough half the 
size of an egg into cylinders five inches long. For bread sticks, 
roll out sticks about half an inch thick and five or six inches long. 
Bake these and finger rolls 10 minutes. The oven may be a little 
hotter for rolls than for loaves. 

Hot Cross .Buns 

1 1 cup scalded milk -)4 tbsp cinnamon 
%. cup sugar 3 cups flour 

2 tbsp shortening 1 egg 

1 tbsp. salt J4 cup raisins 

5^ yeast cake dissolved in % cup warm water 

Cover and let rise over night. Make into biscuits and cut a 
cross on each. 

Rusks 

2 cups raised dough j^ cup butter 

1 cup sugar 2 eggs well beaten 

Flour to make a stiff dough 

Set to rise and when light mold into high biscuit, and let rise 
again ; sift sugar and cinnamon over the top, and place in oven. 

Italian Rolls 

1 pound bread dough }i pound butter 

Work the butter into the dough and roll out half an inch thick. 
Cut in strips nearly an inch wide and seven or eight inches long; 
sift fine corn meal over them and place apart in a buttered tin 
and when light bake in a quick oven. 

39 



Coffee Rolls 

Work 1 rounded tablespoon of butter and Yz cup of sugar into 
1 quart of bread dough. Add some dried currants (well washed 
and dried in the oven), sift some flour and sugar over them, work 
into the other ingredients, and make into small rolls. Dip into 
melted butter, place in tins, let rise a short time and bake. 

Entire Wheat Muffins 

1 cup entire wheat 4 tsp. baking powder 

1 cup white flour 1 t.gg 

Yi cup sugar V/^ cups milk 

34 tsp, salt 4 tbsp. melted butter 

Bake in hot muffin tins 20 minutes. 

Popovers 
1 cup flour J4 tsp. salt 

1 cup milk 2 eggs 

(Set popover cups on the stove to heat). Put the flour in a 
bowl ; make a well in the center of it ; drop in salt and then the 
unbeaten eggs. Add the milk gradually, stirring in widening 
circles from the center. Bake in buttered muffin pans or in 
earthen cups, in a hot oven for 30 minutes. 

Tea Biscuit 

2 cups flour Yz tsp. salt 

3 tsp. baking powder 1 tbsp. butter 

^ cup milk (or milk and water.) 

Sift the flour, baking powder and salt together. Rub in the 
butter (which should be cold and firm) with the tips of the fin- 
gers, or cut with a knife, until the mixture looks like meal. Pour 
in milk slowly, cutting, not stirring, the mass with a knife. As 
soon as one portion of the flour becomes slightly moistened, push 
it aside. When all is moist, turn out on a floured board. Knead 
it for a minute with the hands. Pat and roll it lightly with a 
rolling pin to a thickness of ^4 of an inch. Cut into biscuit with 
a small biscuit cutter dipped in flour. Bake on a pan for 12 or 
15 minutes in a hot oven. 

Plain Muffins 

2 cups flour J^ tsp. salt 

3 tsp. baking powder 1 tbsp. butter 

y^ cup milk 

Mix and sift the flour, baking powder and salt. Stir in enough 
milk to make a drop batter, beat well, and add the butter melted. 
Bake about 20 minutes, 

40 



Egg Muffins 

1^ cups flour 1 cup milk 

2 tsp. baking powder 1 egg 

Yi tsp. salt 1 tbsp. melted butter 

Mix and sift dry ingredients. Separate the egg; beat the yolk 
slightly and the white to a stiff froth. Stir the milk, beaten yolk, 
and melted butter in the order named, into the dry ingredients. 
Lastly, fold in the beaten whites. Bake in muffin pans 25 minutes. 

Com Meal Muffins 

^ cups corn meal Yz tsp. salt 

1 cup flour 1 cup milk 

2 tsp. baking powder 1 tbsp. butter 

Scald half the milk. Separate the egg, and beat the white to a 
stiff froth. Put the corn meal in a bowl, make a well in the center, 
into the well put the salt and butter. Stir in the scalded milk. 
Add the yolk unbeaten, the cold milk and the flour and baking 
powder sifted together. Beat well and fold in the beaten whites. 
Bake in a hot oven 30 minutes. 

Singing Corn Cake 

Two cups of Indian meal one cup of wheat, 
One cup sour milk, one cup of sweet, 
One good egg that you will beat, 
One half cup of molasses, too, 
One half cup sugar add thereto, 
With one spoon of butter new. 
Salt and soda, each a spoon. 
Mix it quickly, bake it soon. 

Sponge Corn Cake 

2 eggs Yi tsp, each of soda and salt 

1 tbsp. melted butter 1 cup flour 

1 cup sour milk J4 cup corn meal 

Bake intern pans. 

Griddle Cakes 

2 cups flour Y^ tsp. salt 

1 tsp. baking soda 2 cups sour milk 

1 ^gg 

Put the griddle where it will be hot by the time the cakes are 

mixed. Sift the flour, salt and soda together. Beat the egg well. 

Stir the milk into the flour. Add the beaten egg, and beat it all 

together until well mixed. Bake by spoonfuls on a hot griddle. 

41 



When the cakes are full of bubbles on top, and brown on one side, 
turn them over with a broad knife or cake turner. If large 
bubbles rise in the top at once, the griddle is too hot. If the top 
of the cake stiffens before the under side is brown, the griddle is 
not hot enough. Never turn a cake twice ; a twice turned cake 
will be heavy. 

Serve the cakes as soon as they are baked, piled (not more than 
six to eight together) on a hot plate. Serve with butter and 
syrup, or butter and sugar. 

In making griddle cakes with sweet milk, omit the soda, and add 
2 teaspoons of baking powder and 1 tablespoon of melted butter. 

Rice Griddle Cakes 



% cups flour 


Ys cup sugar 


% cup cold cooked rice 


1^ cups milk 


1 tbsp. baking powder 


1 ^gg 


% tsp. salt 


2 tbsp. melted butter 



Old-Fashioned Buckwheat Cakes 

In an earthen jar or deep dish put 1 pint of warm water, 1 tea- 
spoon salt, y2 cake yeast dissolved in warm water, 3 tablespoons 
molasses and enough buckwheat flour to make a batter as thick 
as cream. Stir until free from lumps. Let rise over night and 
in the morning add a scant teaspoon soda dissolved in a little 
warm water. Fry in small cakes and serve with butter and syrup. 

Gluten Bread 

1 cake compressed yeast 1 tbsp. lard or butter, melted 

1 cup milk, scalded and cooled 3 cups gluten flour 

1 cup lukewarm water 1 tsp. salt 

Dissolve yeast and sugar in lukewarm liquid. Add lard or 
butter, then flour gradually, and salt. Knead until smooth and 
elastic. Place in well-greased bowl, cover and set in a warm 
place, free from draft, to rise until light, about 2 hours. Mould 
into loaves, place in greased pans, filling them half full. Cover, 
let rise again, and when double in bulk, which should be in about 
1 hour, bake in moderate oven 45 minutes. Makes two one- 
pound loaves. For diet use all water and omit shortening and 
sugar. 

White Bread 

Quick Method 

2 cakes compressed yeast 2 tbsp. lard or butter, melted 

1 quart lukewarm water 3 quarts sifted flour 

2 tbsp. sugar 1 tbsp. salt 

42 



Dissolve yeast and sugar in lukewarm water, add lard or 
butter, and half the flour. Beat until smooth, then add salt and 
balance of the flour, or enough to make dough that can be 
handled. Knead until smooth and elastic. Place in greased bowl, 
cover and set aside in a moderately warm place, free from draft, 
until light — about 1^?^ hours. Mould into loaves. Place in well- 
greased bread pans, filling them half full. Cover and let rise 
1 hour, or until double in bulk. Bake 45 to 60 minutes. If a 
richer loaf is desired, use milk in place of part or all of the 
water. 

Sally Lunn 

1 cake compressed yeast 4 tbsp. butter, melted 

2 cups milk, scalded and 4 cups sifted flour 

cooled 2 eggs 

1 tbsp. sugar 1 tsp, salt 

Dissolve yeast and sugar in lukewarm milk. Add butter, then 
flour, eggs well beaten, and the salt. Beat until perfectly smooth. 
Pour into well-greased pans. Cover and let rise in a warm 
place, free from draft, until double in bulk — about 1% hours. 
Sprinkle 1 tbsp. granulated sugar over top and bake 20 minutes 
in hot oven. Serve hot. Break apart with fork. This recipe 
will fill two medium cake pans. 

Oatmeal Muffins 

1 cake compressed yeast 1 cup rolled oats 

y^ cup lukewarm water % cup whole wheat flour 

3 tbsp. sugar % cup sifted white flour 

2 tbsp. butter 1 tsp. salt 
1 cup hot milk 

Boil oats and butter in milk 1 minute. Let stand until luke- 
warm. Dissolve yeast and sugar in lukewarm water, and com- 
bine the two mixtures. Add flour and salt, and beat well. The 
batter should be thick enough to drop heavily from the spoon. 
Cover and let rise until light, about 1 hour, in a moderately warm 
place. Fill well-greased muffin pans two-thirds full. Let rise 
about 40 minutes, bake 25 minutes in a moderately hot oven. 

Waffles 

4 tbsp. melted butter % tsp. salt 

2 tsp. baking powder 2 eggs 

2 cups flour 1^ cups milk 

Mix flour with baking powder. Beat the yolks of eggs, add 
butter and milk. Add this mixture gradually to dry ingredients, 
beating thoroughly. When well mixed fold in stiffly beaten 
whites of eggs. Pour from a pitcher into center of hot, well- 
greased waffle iron. Serve with maple syrup. 

43 



CROQUETTES, FRITTERS AND 
PATTIES 

Articles of food to be fried are usually covered with egg and 
crumbs, flour or meal, to protect them from absorbing the fat. 
Use a deep frying pan or kettle. A wire frying basket to hold 
the articles to be fried, hung on a long handle fork, is convenient ; 
but they may be lowered into the fat with a wire egg beater. Put 
the fat into a cold kettle and bring it to the right degree of heat. 
Have several sheets of soft paper ready on a pan, also a pan to 
hold under the food as it is taken from the fat. When the fat 
begins to smoke, drop into it an inch cube of white bread. If 
this becomes a golden brown in forty seconds, it is right for cro- 
quettes and other articles of cooked material, and for fish and 
oysters. If it takes sixty seconds, it is right for fritters and most 
other uncooked articles. Three croquettes can be fried at once 
in a three-quart saucepan. More will cool the fat below the 
soaking point. When all the grease has been absorbed by the 
paper, arrange the food on a platter, and garnish with parsley; 
in the case of fish or oysters, with parsley and lemon. 

Chicken Croquettes 

2 cups chicken, chopped fine 1 tsp. onion juice 
1 cup thick white sauce Few grains grated nutmeg 

Salt and pepper to taste 

Add seasoning to the chicken, mix with hot white sauce, and 
turn on to a platter to cool. When cold, form into cylinders or 
cones, roll in egg and bread crumbs, and fry in deep fat. Stick 
a small sprig of parsley in each one. They may be served with 
white sauce poured around them. 

Potato Croquettes 

2 cups mashed potato Pinch of pepper 

2 tbsp. butter % tsp. celery salt 

5^2 tsp. salt 10 drops onion juice 

1 egg 
Beat the egg, mix it with the potato and add the other ingredi- 
ents. Heat the mixture in a saucepan, stirring, and when it 
cleaves from the sides of the pan turn out on a flat dish. When 
cold, shape into cylinders 3 inches long. Roll in egg and crumbs 
and fry. 

44 



Rice Croquettes 

Mix 1 cup of cooked rice with 1 beaten egg, and 1 tablespoon 
flour. Fry in hot lard and take up on paper. These croquettes 
are to be eaten with meat. 

Salmon Croquettes 

To 1 can of salmon take 1 egg and 3 icrackers rolled fine, add 
2 tablespoons cream and 2 tablespoons of melted butter. Mix 
till smooth, roll in crumbs and fry till brown. 

Salmon Croquettes 

1 can salmon >2 cup fine bread crumbs 

1 egg beaten Part of 1 lemon 

Salt and pepper 

Drain the fish and mince. Melt and work in the butter, season, 
and if too dry moisten with the liquor of fish. Add crumbs. 
Form into rolls, flour and roll in crumbs. Put on ice for an hour. 
Fry in hot fat and garnish with parsley. 

Ham Croquettes 

1 cup ham chopped fine 2 cups mashed potato 

1 egg 1 cup bread crumbs 

1 tbsp. butter 

Make into rolls, dip in beaten egg, then in bread crumbs, and 
fry in hot fat. 

Fritters 

Mix and sift 1 pint of flour, 1 teaspoon sugar, >4 teaspoon soda, 
and 1 teaspoon cream tartar. Beat 1 egg very lightly and add J^ 
pint of milk, Stir this into the flour and add 1 tablespoon of 
olive oil. Drop pieces of fruit into the batter. (Apples, peaches, 
bananas, or pineapple may be used.) Drop spoonfuls of the 
batter with fruit in hot fat and fry till brown. Remove from fat 
and drain on paper. Sprinkle with powdered sugar and serve 
with syrup or with a sauce made of the fruit juice. 

Com Fritters 

1 can corn J4 tsp. paprika 

1 tsp. salt 1 tsp. baking powder 

1 cup flour 2 eggs 

Chop corn. Add dry ingredients mixed and sifted, then add 
yolks of eggs beaten, until thick and fold in whites of the eggs 
beaten stiff. Cook in a frying pan in »hot fat. 

45 



Chicken Patties 

Make a rich pie crust, line patty pans and bake in a moderate 
oven. Cut cold cooked chicken in bits and cream in a rich white 
sauce. Pour into patties and serve after seasoning with salt and 
pepper to taste. 

Dresden Patties 

Cut stale bread or biscuit into 2 inch slices, shape with a round 
cutter and remove center, making cases. Dip cases in egg slightly 
diluted with milk and seasoned with salt. When the bread is 
soaked, drain and fry in deep fat. Fill with creamed oysters, 
chicken, or creamed vegetable. 

Oyster Patties 

Make patty cups of rich pie crust and bake. Just before serv- 
ing fill with creamed oysters. Vegetable patties may be made in 
the same way by creaming them in a rich white sauce and serving 
in patty cups. 

Cheese Balls 

3 eggs (whites) 1% cups grated dairy cheese 

% tsp. salt Cayenne (dash) 

1 tbsp. flour Bread crumbs 
1 tsp. Parmesan cheese 

Beat eggs until stiff, add other ingredients and roll in crumbs. 
Form into %-inch balls. Fry in deep fat. Serve with salad, 2 
balls on a plate. Makes 18 balls. 



46 



BREAKFAST AND LUNCHEON 
DISHES 

Cereals 

Cereals are the most important of vegetable foods. Oatmeal 
and cornmeal, having more fat than other grains, are good winter 
foods. On account of its strong and indigestible fiber, oatmeal 
is less nutritious than other grains except for strong, hard-work- 
ing people. 

Cereals should absorb all the water they are cooked in. If too 
moist when nearly done, cook uncovered for a time. 

To improve rice, farina, or hominy, stir in ^4 cup of milk about 
15 minutes before taking from the fire and leave the cover off 
during the rest of the time. 

It is better not to eat cereals at all than to eat them under 
cooked. Sugar, a heat giver, is not needed with cereals ; milk and 
cream, on the other hand, supply fat and substances, of which 
cereals have little. 

Whole Oatmeal 

1 cup oatmeal 4 cups water 

1 tsp. salt 
Put the water with the salt in the upper part of the double 
boiler and set it directly over the heat. When it boils, stir in the 
oatmeal, put the parts of the boiler together and cook over night 
or 6 hours by a day fire. Reheat in the morning. 

Steamed Oatmeal 

Soak the oatmeal in the water for several hours, add the salt 
and steam 3 hours. 

Hominy 

1 cup hominy 4 cups water 

1 tsp. salt 
Put the water and the salt together and bring to a boil. Stir 
in the hominy and steam 4 hours. 

Rice Omelet 

3 eggs 1 tbsp. butter 

1 cup milk 1 tbsp. flour 

^ tsp. salt 1 pt. cooked rice 

Beat yolks and whites separately, add milk, flour and salt. Add 
this to a pint of cooked rice. Bake 30 minutes. 

47 



Glorified Eggs 

4 eggs 1 cup milk 

1 tsp. salt Butter size of walnut 

Beat the eggs until light, add the other ingredients and put in 
a double boiler. Do not stir. When mixture is firm it is ready 
to serve. Turn on a hot platter and serve at once. 

French Omelet 

4 eggs Yi tsp. salt 

4 tbsp. water Few grains pepper 

1 tbsp. butter 

Beat the eggs lightly, add water, salt and pepper. Melt the 
butter in a hot omelet pan without letting it brown. Turn in the 
eggs, shake the pan gently, and as the ^gg thickens, lift it lightly 
with a fork or knife letting the uncooked part run underneath. 
The omelet should slip on the pan without sticking anywhere. 
When creamy all through roll it up, rolling toward the left side 
of the pan. Hold a hot platter over the edge of the pan and turn 
the pan and the platter over so that the omelet will fall in the 
center of the platter. Garnish with parsley and serve at once. 

Omelet 

5 eggs, yokes and whites 1 tbsp. flour mixed smoothly 

beaten separately with a little milk 

1 cup sweet milk 1 tsp. salt 

Beat thoroughly. Add the whites last. Pour into a buttered 
spider and when partly done turn over. Cook a light brown. 

Baked Omelet 

6 eggs 1 cup milk 

1 tbsp. butter 1 tsp. salt 

1 tbsp. flour 

Melt the butter. Add the flour and when smooth add the milk 
and stir until thickened and creamy. Remove from fire and set 
aside to cool. Separate the eggs, beating the yolks until light and 
the whites stiff. Fold the yolks into the sauce and then the 
whites. Put into a baking dish and bake in a moderate oven 20 
minutes. Serve immediately in the dish in which it was baked. 

Macaroni with Boiled Ham 

Boil 1 cup of macaroni broken in inch pieces in salted water 
until soft. Drain and dash cold water over it to separate the 
pieces. Make a sauce of 1 cup of scalded milk, 2 tbsp. butter, and 
3 tbsp. flour. Put a layer of macaroni in a baking dish,, cover 

48 



with sauce and sprinkle liberally with cold boiled ham which has 
been chopped and grated cheese. Continue until the materials 
are used, cover the top with buttered crumbs and bake until 
brown. 

Macaroni and Tomatoes 

Boil macaroni in salted water until soft. Add the same amount 
of tomatoes as macaroni and let simmer on the back of the stove. 
Just before serving add 1 cup of sweet cream and let heat for 
3 minutes and serve. 

Macaroni and Tomatoes 

Boil Yz pound of macaroni until soft. Rinse in cold water 
and place a layer of macaroni on the bottom of a buttered baking 
dish. Salt and pepper, add a layer of tomatoes and continue 
until the materials are all used. Pour a thin white sauce over all, 
cover with buttered crumbs and bake until brown. 

Macaroni and Cheese 

Boil Y^ cup of macaroni in salted water until soft. Drain in 
a strainer and rinse in cold water. Put a layer of macaroni in a 
buttered baking dish and sprinkle with grated cheese. Repeat 
until the materials have been used. Pour 1 cup of white sauce 
over the top, cover with buttered crumbs and bake until brown. 

"Cleave to that which is Good" 

1 cup Mark 8:8. 

1 cup Genesis 49 : 13, mixed with 1 tbsp. I Kings 4 : 23. 

3 Isaiah 10:14 (Genesis 37:40 and Job 6:6, Prov. 33:14, 

Genesis 13 : 9). Lev. 3 : 13 to taste. 
20 minutes of I Sam. 38 : 34. 

Eggs Vermicelli 

Separate the whites and yokes of 4 hard-boiled eggs. Chop the 
whites and rub yolks through a sieve. Melt a tablespoon of butter 
and when bubbling add a tablespoon of flour gradually, a cup of 
milk, stirring well, and salt and pepper to season. Add the whites 
to this sauce and spread thickly on buttered toast, then sprinkle 
the yolks over the top. 

Scrambled Eggs 

Toast thin slices of bread, moisten the edges with hot salted 
water or milk, arrange on hot plates and butter slightly. Beat 
the yolks of 4 eggs, add 4 tbsp. thin cream, ^ tsp. salt, then fold 
in the well-beaten whites. Melt a little butter in a saucepan, add 
the mixture and as it cooks draw the thickened portion toward 
the center. Take up by the spoonful and lay on the toast. 

49 



Dropped Eggs 

Have a pan of hot water ready. Salt the water that the eggs 
may keep round and even. Drop in as many eggs as desired and 
cook till the whites are firm. Lift out carefully and serve on toast 
or on a hot platter garnished with parsley. 

Bird's Nests 

Beat the white of an egg stiff and heap it on a slice of buttered 
toast in the shape of a nest. Drop the yolk in the center, add a 
little salt and brown in a quick oven. 

Stuffed Eggs 

Boil eggs hard. Cut in halves lengthwise, remove yolks and 
mash fine. Mix with cream salad dressing and refill the whites. 
Serve on lettuce leaves. 

Tomato and Egg 

Place tomato from which pulp has been removed in ramekin 
dish ; sprinkle with salt and pepper and drop egg into the cup in 
the tomato. Bake in a moderate oven with ramekin covered with 
buttered paper and set in a pan of hot water. 

Bread and Cheese 

Line a baking dish with slices of dry bread and butter, cover 
with 1 cup of dairy cheese cut up fine, a little mustard, salt and 
pepper. Pour over this 1 cup of milk to which have been added 
2 well-beaten eggs, and as much more milk as the bread will 
soak up. Bake in a quick oven until it rises and seems firm. 
(About y2 hour.) 

Cheese Fondue 

1 cup scalded milk 1 tbsp. butter 

1 cup soft stale bread crumbs 3^ tsp. salt 

34 lb. mild cheese cut in small 3 eggs, yolks and whites 
pieces beaten separately 

Mix the cheese and the crumbs with the milk. Add the butter 
and salt and the yolks of the eggs. Fold in the whites and pour 
into a buttered baking dish. Bake 20 minutes. 

Cheese Ramekin 

4 tbsp. grated cheese Yolks of 2 eggs 

2 tbsp. butter Whites of 3 eggs beaten stiff 
1 gill milk j^ tsp. mustard 

4 tbsp. bread crumbs Salt and pepper to taste 

Put the bread and milk on and boil until smooth. Add cheese 
and butter. Cook over fire 1 minute, remove and add seasoning 

50 



and the yolks of the eggs. Stir the whites in carefully. Pour in 
a buttered dish and bake 15 minutes in a quick oven. Serve im- 
mediately. 

Cheese Souffle 

Put 2 tablespoons of butter in a saucepan, add 1 heaping table- 
spoon flour. When smooth add ^ cup milk, }^ teaspoon salt, and 
a few grains of cayenne. Cook 2 minutes. Add the yolks of 3 
eggs well beaten and 1 cup grated cheese. Set away to cool. 
When cold add the whites beaten to a stifif froth. Turn into a 
buttered dish and bake 25 or 30 minutes. Serve at once. 

Potato PufiF 

2 cups hot or cold mashed 3 tbsp. cream 

potatoes Salt and pepper to taste 

2 eggs 

Put the potatoes in a frying pan, add yolks of eggs, cream and 
seasoning, stir until well mixed. Take from fire, add the egg 
whites (beaten stiff), heap in a buttered baking dish or gem pans 
and bake in a quick oven until nicely browned. 

Cold Meat and Potatoes 

Pare and boil G good sized potatoes. Mash light and fine, add 
butter the size of an egg, 1 cup of hot milk, and salt and pepper 
to taste. Beat up light and spread on a hot platter. Place on 
this slices of cold meat with a tablespoon of gravy on each slice. 
Put a little gravy around the dish and set it in a hot oven for 5 
minutes. 

Rice and Cheese 

Cook 1 cup of rice and strain off the water if any. Make a 
white sauce of 1 tbsp. butter, 1 tbsp. flour, 1 cup of milk and cook 
until thick. Add ^ pound of cheese grated fine. Put a layer of 
rice in a buttered dish, then a layer of sauce until all is used. 
Season with a bit of red pepper and salt to taste. Bake 20 
minutes. 

Fish Balls 

1 cup codfish, 1 quart raw potatoes cut in slices. Put in cold 
water and boil. Drain and mash fine. Add butter the size of an 
egg, a dash of red pepper and 2 well-beaten eggs. Mix with a 
large spoon and fry brown in boiling fat. 

Meat Popovers 

1 cup of any kind cold meat finely chopped. Make a batter of 
2 eggs, 1 cup of flour, 1 cup of milk, a little salt and a pinch of 
cayenne. Beat well and stir into the meat. Bake in hot gem pans 
15 minutes. 

51 



Lamb Scallop 

Chop cold lamb and add any gravy that may have been left 
over, seasoning to taste. In a dish put a layer of the meat, then 
a layer of bread crumbs and a layer of cooked tomatoes, until all 
is used. Add a small lump of butter to the top layer of bread 
crumbs and bake. 

Walnut Lioaf 

2 cups walnut meats ground 1 egg 

fine Salt and pepper to taste 

2 cups bread crumbs Onion if liked 

Add a mixing spoon of butter. Mix dry ingredients, add milk 
to make moist, put in a buttered tin and cover with bread crumbs 
and dot with butter. Bake 1 hour and serve as meat with tomato 
sauce or plain if preferred. 

Celery Sauce for Nut Loaf 

Brown 3 tablespoons flour in 3 tablespoons butter, add 1% 
cups of meat stock or cream in which bits of celery have been 
cooked. Season and strain. 

Scalloped Haddock 

Boil 4 pounds of haddock in salted water with 1 tablespoon vin- 
egar for 15 minutes, then pick apart and flake. Make a white 
sauce of 1 pint of milk, 1 pint of cream and 4 tablespoons flour. 
Cook until it thickens and add a little salt. Butter a baking dish 
and put in a layer of fish, then one of sauce until both are used 
up, adding a little pepper each time. Cover the top with buttered 
crumbs and bake until brown. 

Pigs in a Blanket 

Take very thinly sliced bacon, roll an oyster up in each piece, 
pin together with a toothpick and bake in a hot oven until brown. 
Arrange on a platter, garnish with parsley and serve at once. 

Baked Eggs with Cheese 

Break 4 eggs into buttered ramekin and pour 1 tablespoon of 
cream over each egg. Place ramekin in a pan of water and cook 
in the oven until whites begin to thicken. Sprinkle with cheese 
and bread crumbs and continue cooking until brown. 

Cheese Potato Puff 

To 1 cup baked mashed potato add 2 to 3 tablespoons milk, 1 
egg' y2 teaspoon salt, ^ cup grated cheese. Beat until light. 
Refill skins and brown. 

52 



PUDDINGS AND SAUCES 

Plain Bread Pudding 

1 qt. scalded milk 3 cups stale bread crumbs 
Yi cup sugar without crust, grated or 

2 eggs rubbed 

y^ tsp. salt or 

1 cup dried crumbs 

Beat the eggs slightly; beat into them the sugar and add the 
milk, spice, and salt. When the crumbs become soft, turn into a 
buttered dish, and bake until a knife inserted in the pudding 
comes out clean. 

Variations of Bread Pudding. — 1. Add one cupful of boiled 
raisins, citron and currants mixed. 

2. Separate the eggs, add only the yolks to the pudding. Beat 
the whites stiflf ; beat into them two and a half tablespoonf uls of 
powdered sugar, spread them roughly over the pudding, and 
return it to the oven for two minutes, or till a deHcate brown. 

3. Queen of puddings. Like variation 2, except omit spice, 
flavor with one and a half tablespoonf uls of lemon juice and 
spread it over with jam or jelly before covering it with the mer- 
ingue. 

Bread Puddings are baked custards thickened with bread 
crumbs. They should be soft, like custard. 

Plain Soft Custard 

2 cups scalded milk 6 tbsp. sugar 

3 tgg yolks Vs tsp. salt 

y2 tsp. vanilla 

Beat the eggs slightly, beat into them the sugar and salt, and 
stir in slowly the hot milk. Pour into a double boiler, and cook, 
stirring constantly, until the custard is thick enough to coat the 
spoon. Strain at once through a fine strainer into a cold pitcher. 
When cool stir in the vanilla, and pour into a glass dish or glass 
custard cups for serving. 

Apple Tapioca 

4 tbsp. pearl or granulated ^ cup sugar 

tapioca /4 tsp. cinnamon or nutmeg 

6 tart apples Few grains salt 

1 pint boiling water 

Soak the tapioca over night in a cupful of cold water. Core 

and pare the apples, slice one of them, and cook it with the tapioca 

in the boiling water till the latter is translucent. Place the rest of 

the apples upright in a buttered baking-dish, sprinkle over them 

63 



the sugar and spice, pour over them the tapioca mixture, and bake 
till they are tender. Serve with sugar and cream. 

Cup Custard (For three) 

1^ cups milk, warmed, 1 egg beaten light with 2 tbsp. sugar. 
Beat all together until very light, sprinkle nutmeg on top or add 
vanilla ; then put in ramekins and bake in oven in pan of boiling 
water until firm. 

Delmonico Pudding 
3 cups milk ^ cup desiccated cocoanut 

3 crackers >4 cup sugar 

3 eggs well beaten 5^ tsp. salt 

Pour into a buttered pudding dish. Sprinkle some of the cocoa- 
nut on top and some grated nutmeg. Bake about 5^ hour, stand- 
ing dish in a pan of hot water. Use large cup in measuring. 

English Plum Pudding 



j/2 lb. suet chopped fine 


3 tbsp. allspice 


^ lb. cracker crumbs 


2 tbsp. mace 


1 lb. seeded raisins 


6 eggs 


2 lbs. currants 


1 nutmeg 


^ lb. orange peel 


1 cup sugar 


^2 lb. lemon peel 


3 cups molasses 


3 tbsp. cloves 


1 pint milk 


1 lb. flour 




Boil for 5 hours. 





Aunt Nellie Plum Pudding 

22 crackers ^ tbsp. cinnamon 

ly^ quarts milk j4 tbsp. nutmeg 

3 eggs }i pound citron 

lj4 cups sugar 1 pound raisins 

j4 tsp. salt 1 tsp. soda 

Put the crackers in one quart of milk let stand over night, beat 
in the eggs and other ingredients with one pint of milk, put in the 
pudding dish and bake four hours in a slow oven. 

Fruit Pudding 

1 cup cider 1 cup raisins 

1 cup molasses 1 tsp. soda 

1 cup suet 
Add flour enough to stiflfen about like cake, spice to taste and 
steam 2 hours. Serve with hard sauce. 

Orange Pudding 

4 oranges peel and slice. Cover with J^ cup sugar. Let stand 
}^ hour. Beat together yolks of 3 eggs, 1 tbsp. cornstarch, 1^ 

54 



cups sugar, 1 pint sweet milk. Cook this like thick custard and 
when cold pour over the oranges. Beat the whites of eggs with 
Yz cup sugar and brown in the oven. 

Cornstarch Meringue 

1 quart milk ^ cup granulated sugar 

54 cup cornstarch 1 tsp. vanilla extract 

3 eggs 6 tbsp. powdered sugar 

Scald the milk in a double boiler, and stir into it the cornstarch 
just moistened with cold water. Cook directly over the heat till 
it comes to a boiling point; then remove at once. Separate the 
eggs ; beat the yolks slightly by themselves, then with the granu- 
lated sugar; stir these into the thickened milk, cook all together 
for one minute, add the vanilla, and pour into a baking dish. 

For the Meringue. Beat the whites till frothy, add the 
powdered sugar, and beat again. When stiff enough to hold its 
shape, spread the meringue over the pudding, heaping it in the 
middle, sprinkle with powdered sugar, and brown slightly in a 
warm oven. Serve cold. 

Creamy Rice Pudding 

1 quart milk Yz cup sugar 

Yi cup rice Grated nutmeg few grains 

54 tsp. salt 

Wash the rice. Mix the ingredients in a pudding dish and bake 
for three or four hours, stirring in a brown crust as it forms. Or 
cook slowly for a shorter time in a saucepan on the stove, stirring 
often. Serve cold. 

Half a cupful of raisins may be added to this recipe. 

Chocolate Cocoanut Pudding 

2 cups bread crumbs soaked 1 tbsp. butter 

1 hour in 2 cups milk 1 square chocolate melted 

1 t.gg and 1 yolk 3 tbsp. cocoanut 

Yi. cup sugar 
Cook in a double boiler 1 hour. 

Sauce. One cup powdered sugar, Y^- cup butter ; cream together 
and add the beaten white of 1 t%%. 

Chocolate Pudding 

1 pt. strong boiling coffee 3 tbsp. cornstarch 

strained 1 dessert spoon cocoa 

1 cup sugar 

Mix cocoa and cornstarch in a little cold water. Last add 5^ 
teaspoon vanilla. Turn in small molds and serve with whipped 
cream. 

56 



Chocolate Pudding without Eggs 

2 cups scalded milk 2 tbsp, cocoa or 

2 cups bread crumbs soaked 2 squares chocolate 

until soft 1 tsp. vanilla 

Yz cup sugar 

Bake about 1 hour. Serve with hard sauce or vi^hipped cream. 

Pineapple Cream. 

1 can pineapple, grated or Yz cup cold water 

chopped fine V/2 cups boiling water 

1 cup sugar 1 pint cream 
3^ box gelatine 

Soak the gelatine in the cold water ; stir the pineapple into the 
boiling water and add the sugar and gelatine. Let it stand till it 
thickens and cools, then beat until it looks white, stir in the 
whipped cream and mold. 

Prune Whip 

Soak 1 cup prunes in warm water and cook until tender. After 
removing pits cut up in fine pieces and when cold add Yi cup sugar 
and Yz cup hot water, in which is dissolved 1 envelope minute 
gelatine. Whip into this the well-beaten whites of 3 eggs. Serve 
with cream. 

Raspberry Pudding 

Yolks of 2 eggs 1 cup flour 

1 cup sugar 1 tsp. cream of tartar 

1 cup sweet milk Y^ tsp. soda 
A little salt 

When baked spread with raspberry jam and frost with whites 
of eggs beaten stiff with 3 tablespoons sugar. Eat with cream 
and sugar. 

Raisin Puffs 

2 eggs 1 cup sweet milk 

1 tsp. butter 1 tsp. baking powder 

2 tsp. sugar ^ cup raisins chopped fine 
2 cups flour 

Fill cups half full. Steam Y^ hour. To be eaten with sauce. 

Revere Pudding 

1 cup molasses 1 cup raisins 

1 cup sweet milk 1 tsp. soda 

3 cups flour 2 tsp. mixed spices 
Y2 cup melted butter 

Mix thoroughly together and steam 3 hours. 

56 



Rice Pudding 

y2 cup uncooked rice ^ cup sugar 

2 eggs 1 large cup seeded raisins 

3 pints milk Salt, nutmeg and cinnamon to 
Butter size of small ^g% taste 

Bake 3^^ hours, stirring frequently until it begins to boil. Do 
not put in the raisins until the pudding begins to thicken. 

Snow Pudding 

1 cup boiling water 1 tbsp. cornstarch dissolved in 

3^ cup sugar a little water 

2 beaten whites of eggs 

Cook together water and cornstarch in double boiler till it looks 
like starch. Add sugar and whites of eggs. Flavor with lemon. 
Turn into custard cups and cool. 

Sauce. One cup of milk, pinch of salt, beaten yolks of 2 eggs, 
Yi. cup sugar. Cook in a double boiler till like a custard. Flavor 
with vanilla. 

Steamed Suet Pudding 

2 cups milk 4 cups flour 

1 cup molasses 1 tsp. soda 

1 cup suet or butter 1 saltspoon salt 

1 cup raisins 
Steam 3 hours. Serve with sugar and cream or some sauce. 

Walnut Cream 

Soak ^ box gelatine in J4 cup cold water for 30 minutes. Beat 
the yolks of 3 eggs ; add a little salt, j^ cup sugar, and 1 cup of 
hot milk. Cook until it thickens. Add gelatine and strain. Then 
add Yi. cup walnut meats pounded pretty fine. When it begins to 
thicken add another half cup walnut meats, 1 tablespoon wine and 
Yz pint whipped cream. Turn into a mold to cool and serve with 
whipped cream. 

Fig Pudding 

Cook 1 cup graham flour in 1 pint salted water, one hour or 
more. Then add ^ pound of figs cut in small pieces and Yi. pound 
walnut meats. Cook ^ hour and serve cold with whipped cream. 

Charlotte Russe 

Y2 envelope Knox sparkling gelatine, 1 cup sugar, Y^ doz. rolled 
stale macaroons, 1 pint heavy cream, 1 doz. marshmallows in small 
pieces, vanilla, 2 tbsp. chopped candied cherries, ^4 cup cold water, 
Ya lb. blanched and chopped almonds, ^ cup boiling water. Soak 
the gelatine in cold water, dissolve in boiling water, and add sugar. 
When the mixture is cold, add cream beaten until stiff, almonds, 

57 



macaroons, marshmallows and candied cherries. Flavor with 
vanilla. Turn into a mold first dipped in cold water, and chill. 
Remove from mold and serve with angel cake. 

Dutch Apple Cake 

2 cups flour 2 tsp. cream of tartar 

^2 tsp. salt J4 cup butter 

y2 tsp. soda 
Sift together dry ingredients and work butter in. Add 1 egg 
beaten and 1 cup of milk. Turn into a buttered pan and press 
into the top apples which have been pared and quartered. Sift 
3 tablespoons of sugar and 1 tablespoon of cinnamon on top. 
Bake and serve with butter or hard sauce. 

Suet Pudding 
1 cup molasses 1 cup milk 

1 cup chopped suet ^ tsp. soda 

Rub suet into 2}^ cups of flour, add 1 cup raisins and a little 
salt. Bake, and serve with sour sauce. 

English Pudding 



1 


cup 


molasses 


^'A 


• cups flour 


/2 


cup 


butter 


1 


tsp 


. soda 


1 


cup 


milk 


1 


tsp 


1. all kinds of 


1 


cup 


raisins 




spices 


Steam for 2 


or 3 hours. 












Sponge 


Pudding 






1 


cup 


molasses 


1 


tsp. 


soda 


/2 


cup 


butter 


1 


tsp. 


cloves 


1 


cup 


milk 


1 


tsp. 


cinnamon 


3 


cupj 


; flour 


1 


tsp. 


nutmeg 


1 


cup 


raisins 








Steam 2^ hours. 









Rice Pudding 

3 pints cold milk 1 small cup raisins 

4 tbsp. rice, well washed Salt, cinnamon, nutmeg to 
1 cup sugar taste 

Stir all into milk, add a small piece of butter, pour into a 
buttered dish, bake 3 hours in a slow oven. Stir occasionally to 
prevent the rice from settling. 

Cottage Pudding 

1 cup sugar 1 tsp. soda 

25^ tsp. melted butter 2 tsp. cream tartar 

1 egg 2 cups flour 

1 cup milk Flavor to taste 

58 



PUDDING SAUCES 

Hot Chocolate Sauce 

1 cup chocolate, grated 1 cup white sugar 

1 cup milk or cream 1 cup brown sugar 

Melt chocolate, add cream and when smooth and thick add 

sugar and cook for a minute or two. Serve hot. This may be 

used for vanilla ice cream. 

Foam Sauce 

1 cup sugar 7 tbsp boiling milk 

1 ^gg 
Stir the egg and sugar together until almost white. Just before 
serving stir the milk in slow. Flavor to taste. Excellent for 
apple pudding. 

Pudding Sauce 

% cup butter 1 cup powdered sugar 

Cream the above ingredients together, add a small tablespoon 
of boiling water and beat it until it is foamy. Flavor with vanilla. 



9 



Cocoanut Sauce 

tbsp. butter }^ cup milk 

1 cup sugar 2 tbsp. cocoanut 

1 tbsp. flour 

Lemon Sauce 

1 cup sugar Juice and rind of 1 lemon 

1 egg 
Beat all together, and just before serving add ^ pint of boiling 
water ; set on stove, and when at boiling point, serve. Never boil 
sauce after adding lemon, as it makes it bitter. Some add ys 
of a cup of butter and a tablespoon of cornstarch. 

Strawberry Sauce 
^2 cup butter 1 pint strawberries, mashed 

1^ cups sugar until juicy 

Beat the butter and sugar to a cream ; then stir in the berries 
and the beaten white of an egg. 

Vinegar Sauce 

13^ cups sugar 2 tbsp. vinegar 

13^ tbsp. flour, in a little Quarter of a grated nutmeg 

water A pinch of salt 

Pour over this 1 3^ pints of boiling water, and boil 10 minutes ; 
just before taking from stove add 1 dessert spoon of butter. 

59 



Whipped Cream Sauce 

1 pint cream (thick and Whites of 2 eggs 

sweet) 

Whip the cream and add the beaten whites of the eggs ; sweeten 
to taste ; place pudding in center of dish, and surround with the 
sauce; or pile up in the center and surround with molded blanc- 
mange, or fruit puddings. 

Hard Sauce 

1 cup confectionery sugar 34 cup butter 

Cream the above ingredients together. Flavor with vanilla. 
Make into shape and slice off when cold. 

Orange Hard Sauce 

Select a thin orange, cut the skin into six equal parts, by cutting 
through the skin at the stem end and passing the knife around the 
orange to nearly the blossom end; loosen and turn each piece 
down and remove the orange. Extract juice and mix it with 
butter and sugar till a ball can be formed, which place inside the 
orange peel and serve. Lemon sauce may be made in the same 
way. 

White Sauce 

1 tbsp. flour y2 tsp. salt 

1 tbsp. butter Few grains pepper 

1 cup milk 

Melt butter, add flour, salt and pepper, and stir until well 
blended ; add % milk and stir until boiling point is reached, add 
remainder of milk and cook 2 minutes. 

Birown Sauce 

2 tbsp. butter 1 cup brown stock 
y2 sliced onion % tsp. salt 

3 tbsp. flour Ys tsp. pepper 

Cook onion in butter until slightly browned, remove onion, stir 
butter constantly until well browned. Add flour mixed with 
seasoning and brown the butter and flour. Then add liquid 
gradually. 

Spanish Sauce 

4 stalks celery 4 drops pepper chili sauce 

5 ripe tomatoes % tsp. salt 

2 green peppers ^4 tsp. black pepper 

4 slices of good-sized onion 1% cups any rich stock 

Cook together 5 minutes. This is excellent over any kind of 
baked fish. 

60 



PASTRY 

Pie Crust for One Pie 

1 cup flour 1 tbsp. lard 

1 tsp. salt y^ cup cold water 

To make pie crust flaky spread on a little lard on the top crust 
and sprinkle a little flour on it. Roll and wet with water just 
before putting in the oven. 

Pie Crust. No. 2 

Yz cup lard 1 tsp. baking powder 

1 cup flour Ys cup cold water 
Y2 tsp. salt 

Apple Lemon Pie 

1 cup chopped apple 1 tgg 

1 cup sugar Juice and grated rind of 1 

lemon 

Chocolate Pie 

1 pint milk 1 tgg 
IY2 cups sugar Little salt 

2 tbsp. corn starch Chocolate to taste 

After baking, frost with whipped cream or meringue. 

Banana Pie 

Line a deep pie plate with a rich pie crust and bake. When cold 
fill with thin slices of bananas, sprinkle with powdered sugar and 
cover with whipped cream. 

Lemon Pie 

1 cup sugar Pinch of salt 

Juice and rind of 1 lemon Yolks of 2 eggs 

']/4 cup butter 1 cup milk 

3 tbsp. flour 

Beat the tgg yolks, butter, sugar and flour together, add the 
lemon, then the milk and the whites of the eggs. Bake with 1 crust. 

Mock Cherry Pie 

1 cup cranberries 1 cup water 

1 cup raisins 1 tbsp. flour stirred in dry 

1 cup sugar 

Stew until the cranberries crack open. Cool and flavor with 
vanilla. This will not keep. 

61 



Raisin Pie 

1 cup chopped raisins 1 cup sugar 

1 cup boiling water Pinch of salt 

1 tsp. corn starch Vanilla to flavor 

Bake with 2 crusts. 

Custard Pie 

4 eggs 1 tsp. vanilla 

1 pint milk Little nutmeg grated on top 

1 cup sugar Pinch of salt 

Bake with 1 crust. 

Hint for Berry Pies. In using canned fruit, use 1 cup sugar to 
a pie. Do not use all the juice in making a pie. Pour it in after 
the pie is baked. 

Date Pie 

>2 lb, dates Ys cups sugar 

3 eggs Milk enough to make pie as 

for custard 

Stew the dates until they can be mashed with a spoon. Sift 
through a colander to remove stones. Then stew all the water out 
and bake with 1 crust. 

Cranberry Pie 

1 cup cranberries cut in half, 3^ cup seeded raisins, 1 cup water. 
Cook together 5 minutes, then mix 1 tbsp. flour or cornstarch with 
1 cup sugar. Add to the other mixture ^ teaspoon vanilla. 

Lemon Pie 

Dissolve 1 tbsp. cornstarch in a little cold water and add 1 cup 
boiling water. Cook until it thickens. Beat together 1 cup sugar, 

1 tbsp. butter, 1 Ggg, juice and grated rind of 1 lemon. Bake with 

2 crusts. 

Cream Pie 

1 cracker rolled fine 1 cup cream 

1 egg beaten light Salt and sugar to taste 

Pumpkin Pie 

1 Ggg 2 tbsp. molasses 

1 cup sifted pumpkin sugar to taste 

1 tbsp. flour % tsp. ginger 

Add milk enough to fill a deep plate. Sprinkle cinnamon on top 
of pie when ready for the oven. 

62 



Maple Sugar Pie 



1 cup maple sugar scraped 

fine 
^ cup milk 

Bake with 2 crusts. 



1 egg 

1 tbsp. flour, heaping 

1 tbsp. butter 



Marlborough Pie 
1 cup sifted stewed apple 



1 cup sugar 
1 cup milk 

Bake with 1 crust. 



% cup butter 
2 well beaten eggs 
Nutmeg to taste 



Squash Pie 



2 cups boiled sifted squash 3 eggs 

1 tbsp. flour 1 qt. milk 

2 cups sugar Butter size of Ggg 

Mix the flour with the squash. Scald the milk and dissolve the 
butter in it. Add cinnamon and nutmeg to taste. This recipe will 
make 2 pies. 



Rhubarb Pie 



1 egg beaten 
1 cup sugar 

Bake with 2 crusts. 



1 tbsp. flour 
1 cup rhubarb 



Grape Pie 

iy2 cups grapes (Concord) 3^6 tsp. salt 

1 cup sugar 1 tbsp. butter 

1 cup hot water 1 tbsp. cornstarch 

Separate skins from pulp. Cook pulp until the seeds remove 
easily. Then add skins and above ingredients and cook together 
10 minutes. Bake with 2 crusts. 

Lremon Sponge Pie 



1 cup milk 

1 pinch salt 

Juice and rind of 1 lemon 



1 tbsp. flour 

Butter Yo size of egg 

1 cup sugar 

2 eggs 

Cream butter, flour and sugar, separate eggs and add beaten 
yolks to above, with juice and rind of lemon and salt. Beat 
whites of eggs and fold into above ingredients. Bake with 1 
crust in moderate oven. 

63 



FROZEN DESSERTS 

Ice Cream 

1 quart milk 1 cup sugar 

1 pint cream Flavor to taste 

4 eggs 

Freeze in a 2-quart freezer. 

Cooked Ice Cream 

3 pints milk 1 pint cream 

4 eggs 3 tbsp. cornstarch 
2^ cups sugar 

Put the milk on stove and heat; wet the cornstarch and 
thoroughly cook m milk ; beat sugar and yolks of eggs and cook in 
milk ; when cool add cream which has been whipped, and beaten 
whites of eggs ; flavor and freeze. 

Ice Cream without Eggs 

1 quart milk 1 tbsp. vanilla 

1 pint cream 3 tbsp. cornstarch 

1 large cup sugar 

Heat the milk in a double boiler, thicken with cornstarch ; after 
it is cooked add the sugar, after it is cold the vanilla, and just 
before freezing add cream. 

Spanish Cream 

1 envelope Knox sparkling 3 eggs 

gelatine 8 tbsp. sugar 

1 quart milk 1 tbsp. vanilla 

Soak the gelatine in milk. Put on the fire and stir until dis- 
solved. Add the yolks of eggs and 4 tablespoonfuls of sugar well 
beaten. Stir until it comes to the boiling point. Remove from 
the stove and have whites of eggs well beaten with 4 tbsp. of 
sugar. Add whites, stirring briskly until thoroughly mixed 
Flavor and turn into mold. If desired, serve with whipped cream. 
This will separate and form a jelly in the bottom with a custard 
on the top. 

Milk Sherbet 

1 quart milk Juice of 3 lemons and the 

1 pint sugar grated peel of 1 

Juice of 1 orange 

Mix all together in the freezer and let it dissolve to a syrup. 
Pour in the milk without stirring and freeze. 

G4 



Coffee Sponge 

2 tbsp. granulated gelatine 2 cups coffee (strong) 

yi cup water 1 cup sugar 

Whites of 3 eggs or 1 cup of thick whipped cream. Soak the 
gelatine, add hot coffee and sugar. Strain and beat until quite 
stiff. Add the whites beaten stiff or whipped cream. Mold. 

Frozen Dessert 

1 pint whipped cream Juice of 1 lemon 

1 cup sugar 1 cup chopped nuts 

Juice of 3 oranges 

Pack in salt and ice 4 hours. 

Maple Mousse 

Yolks of 4 eggs, beaten 1 cup maple syrup 

Beat the yolks of the eggs and add maple syrup and boil about 
3 minutes. Then add when cold 1 pint of whipped cream and 
lastly add the whites beaten stiff. Pack in ice and salt 3 or 4 
hours before serving. 

Trifle 
1 cup strawberries or rasp- 1 cup powdered sugar 

berries crushed White of 1 tgg 

Beat together until stiff. Put on the ice and chill. Serve with 
cake. Enough for four people. 

Lemon Ice 

4 large lemons 1^ pounds sugar 

1 orange 1 quart water 

Make a syrup of the sugar and water by boiling them together 
for five minutes. Add the grated rind of the orange and lemons. 
Add the juice of the orange and lemons. When the syrup is cool, 
strain and freeze. 

Ices — Nut Frappe 

^ envelope Knox sparkling ^^ cup sugar 

gelatine 1 cup chopped nuts 

1 pint cream 1 cup pineapple 

% cup cold water Strawberries 
White of an egg 

Soak the gelatine in the cold water five minutes and dissolve 
over hot water. Add dissolved gelatine to cream and sugar and 
stir in beaten whites of the egg. When cold, add the pineapple 
and strawberries which have been chopped in small pieces ; also, 
the chopped nuts. Serve ice cold in sherbet dishes. 

65 



Frozen Coffee 
1 cup coffee 1 tsp. vanilla 

% cup sugar 1 pint cream 

Beat the yolks of 2 eggs and add to coffee while warm. Cool 
and then add sugar and vanilla. Add cream beaten stiff. Put in 
freezer and pack in salt and ice and let it stand 4 hours. 

Lemon Sherbet 

Juice of 5 lemons 2^4 quarts milk 

3 cups sugar 
Get the freezer all ready with salt and ice, then turn the milk 
into the can, then the syrup, which has stood until the sugar has 
dissolved. Use one-half the quantity for a small family. 

Ames Hill Ice Cream 

1 small quart milk 1 cup sugar 

1 pint cream 
Y) pound candied fruit cut in small pieces and soaked in the 
milk, 1 wineglass sherry or brandy, 2 teaspoons of vanilla. 

Banana Snow 

Cut in small pieces 3 bananas, sprinkle with 1 teaspoon lemon 
juice and ^4 cup of sugar. Mash all together and add stiffly 
beaten whites of 2 eggs and 1 cup cream beaten stiff. Beat all 
until light and foamy. Pile in sherbet glasses and serve very cold. 

Cafe Frappe 
1 pint coffee 1^ cups sugar 

1 pint whipped cream 2 tbsp. gelatine 

Soak the gelatine 2 hours in a little water. Pour hot coffee 
on gelatine, add the sugar, let it cool after mixing well, then add 
the cream. Freeze about 15 minutes. 

Frozen Strawberries 

3 quarts strawberries well 3 cups sugar 

mashed 1 pint cold water 

Let stand one-half hour, stirring occasionally ; then put in 
freezer and when mostly frozen add one pint of whipped cream ; 
finish freezing. All kinds of berries can be used this way. 

Marshmallow Pudding 

1 heaping tbsp. powdered 1 cup granulated sugar 

gelatine Whites of 3 eggs 

2 tbsp. cold water 1 tsp. vanilla 

Dissolve gelatine in the cold water, and fill cup with boiling 
water ; thoroughly dissolve. Into sugar break the whites of eggs 
and over this pour gelatine. Add vanilla and beat constantly for 
20 minutes. Serve with whipped cream in sherbet glasses, with 
cherry in center of top. 



BEVERAGES 

Value of Tea 

While not nutritious, tea is a useful food adjunct, because it 
prevents tissue from wearing out. 

1. Buy good tea ; cheap tea is likely to be adulterated with 
used tea leaves and leaves of other plants. 2. Keep it in a closely 
covered glass jar or tin canister ; if exposed to the air it loses 
flavor. 3. Use a china, or silver, or earthen teapot ; never a tin 
one. 4. Have the water freshly drawn, and bring it quickly to 
the boiling point, water deprived of its air by standing or by 
boiling gives tea a flat taste. 5. Steep it not over five minutes ; 
Never let it boil. 

Directions for Making Tea 

Allow from 1 to 3 teaspoons of tea to 3 cups of water, using 
less of close-rolled than of coarse, loose teas. When the water 
boils, scald the pot, put in the tea, and pour in the boiling water, 
and let it stand covered from 3 to 5 minutes on the side of the 
stove or under a cosy on the table. 

Iced Tea, made weak, is a wholesome summer drink. Serve it 
strained, with lemon and powdered sugar. 

French Tea 

Add % teaspoon of brandy to each cup of tea and serve with 
lemon. 

Russian Tea 

To 1 quart of cold tea add the juice of 2 large lemons ; pour in 
glasses supplied with cracked ice and sugar to taste. This is a 
very cooling drink for hot weather, and satisfies the thirst as few 
beverages do. 

Value of Coffee 

Coffee, like tea, contains tannin and theine (generally called 
caffeine in coffee) ; it acts, therefore, much as tea does upon the 
body, and requires similar preparation. The difference in flavor 
and odor between coffee and tea is caused by a difference in the 
aromatic oils they contain. Moderately strong coffee in moderate 
quantities seems to be not harmful to grown persons in good 
health, but it is unsuitable for boys and girls for the same reasons 
that tea is. 

1. Buy freshly roasted, unground coffee, and grind it at home 
as needed ; or buy it freshly ground every two or three days. 2. 
Keep it in an airtight can or jar. 3. Use an enameled or earthen 

67 



coffeepot that is scoured clean, not omitting the spout, after each 
using. 4. Either filter the coffee, or boil it not longer than three 
minutes. 5. Have coffee powdered for filtering, finely ground for 
boiling. Serve with hot, but not scalded, milk. 

Directions for Making Coffee 

Use 2 heaping tablespoons of coffee to 1 pint of boiling water. 
Put the coffee into the pot, pour on the water, and let it come again 
to the boihng point. Set it away from the heat, and stir in 2 
tablespoons of slightly beaten egg. Let it boil for 1 minute to 
clear it; then keep it hot, where it will not boil, for 5 minutes 
before serving 

Filtered Coffee 

Use a French coffee-pot. Put 2 heaping tablespoons of 
powdered coffee into the bag. Pour over it 1 pint of boiling 
water. Cover the pot and let it stand in hot water till the water 
poured in has filtered through. Pour it out, and turn it through 
the filter again. This makes black coffee, suitable for serving in 
small cups after dinner. Make breakfast coffee less strong. 

Value of Cocoa 

Linnseus, the great botanist, named cocoa theobroma, "food of 
the Gods." Roasted cocoa contains about 50 per cent of fat, 15 
to 16 per cent of nitrogenous compounds, and 10 to 13 per cent 
of starch. For children and young people, it is the best of hot 
drinks. 

Breakfast Cocoa 

1 pint scalded milk 2 tbsp. prepared cocoa 

2 to 4 tbsp. sugar 1 pint boiling water 

Mix the cocoa and sugar in a saucepan ; stir in the water 
gradually, and boil 5 minutes ; add the milk and cook for 5 minutes 
longer, or until smooth and free from any raw taste. Beat well 
to prevent albuminous skin from forming. 

Chocolate 

2 squares chocolate 1 cup boiling water 

4 tbsp. sugar 3 sups scalded milk 

Put the chocolate cut in bits into a saucepan set into hot water ; 
when melted, add the sugar and water, stirring till smooth. Pour 
into this part of the milk, then pour the chocolate back into the 
rest of the milk, and stir until it comes to the boiling point. Beat 
till frothy with an egg-whisk. 

For luncheon or for afternoon tea, serve in tall cups with a 
spoonful of whipped cream on the top of each cup. 



Lemonade 

1 pint sugar 1 quart water 

Boil and skim. Add the juice of 1 dozen lemons. This is for 
1 gallon of water. Put in a jar and it is ready for use whenever 
you wish. 

Egg- Lemonade 

2 large lemons 1 pint boiling water 
1 ^g 

Remove the juice from the lemons, and mix with 3 tablespoons 
of sugar; pour on a pint of boiling water. Stir in the egg well 
beaten and serve. 

Orangeade 

4 oranges 5 tbsp. sugar 

1 lemon 1 pint boiling water 

To the juice of the oranges and the lemon add the sugar and 
pour on the boiling water. Serve while hot. 

Grandmother's Wine 

Take some fine raspberries, bruise them with the back of a 
spoon then strain through a flannel bag into a stone jar; to each 
quart of juice put a pound of double-refined sugar, stir well to- 
gether and cover it close ; let it stand 3 days, then pour it off clear ; 
to 1 quart of juice put 2 quarts of white wine and bottle it. It 
will be fit to drink in a week. 

Grandfather's Nightcap 

Yolk of 1 egg 1 tsp. sugar 

1 tsp. allspice 1 cup boiling water 

1 gill rum 

Beat the yolk of the egg with the allspice and rum; melt the 
sugar in the boiling water. Whisk this well and stir ; strain into 
a hot glass, placing the beaten white on top ; dust with nutmeg. 

Wedding Punch 

Yellow rind of 2 oranges 2 pounds sugar 

3 lemons 

Grate the rind of the oranges and lemons into a quart of water. 
Add the sugar and stir until sugar is dissolved and boil 10 minutes. 
Strain. Return to the fire and add a tumbler each of blackberry, 
currant and raspberry jelly. Strain again and when cold add 1 pint 
of grated pineapple, 1 pint of grape juice. Cover and set aside 
over night, At serving time add juice of 6 oranges and 1^ dozen 

69 



lemons, and 1 quart of cherries or strawberries. To 1 pint of this 
mixture add 3 pints of water or 1 pint of ginger ale and 2 pints 
of water. Pour over ice. 

Osgood's Punch 

Juice of 6 oranges 1 pint can pineapple 

Juice of 6 lemons 1 quart apollinaris water 

1 pint can cherries 

Sweeten to taste. A pint of raspberries improves it. 

Ambrosia 

1 pineapple 1 quart strawberries 

1 shredded grape fruit (or any fruit in season) 

4 oranges 

Remove the pulp of the oranges with an orange spoon. Pare 
and shred thin 2 lemons. Sugar each kind of fruit as prepared. 
Mix fruit in a large bowl and let it stand for several hours, then 
add 3 quarts af water and more sugar if desired. 

Dandelion Wine 

Pour a gallon of boiling water over 3 quarts of dandelion 
flowers. Let stand 24 hours. Strain and add 5 pounds of light 
brown sugar, juice and rind of 2 lemons, juice and rind of 2 
oranges. Let boil 10 minutes and strain. When cold, add half 
a cake of compressed yeast. Put in crock and let stand until it 
commences to work. Then bottle and put corks in loose to let it 
work. After it stops working, cork tight. 

Root Beer 

1 cake compressed yeast 5 gallons fresh water, not too 

1 bottle root beer extract cold 

4 pounds granulated sugar 

In extremely hot weather use one-half cake of yeast. Dis- 
solve the sugar in the water, add the extract, then the yeast thor- 
oughly dissolved in a little water, mix well and bottle imme- 
diately, using strong bottles or jugs, and tie the corks in securely. 
Set in a warm place 36 to 48 hours ; in cold weather, a little 
longer. Remove to cellar or other place of even temperature, 
but do not put it on ice until a few hours before using. 

Cocoa from Shells 

1 cup cocoa shells 34 tsp. salt 

1 quart boiling water 

Cook ingredients together 1 to 1% hours, adding more water 
as it evaporates. Serve with an equal volume of hot milk, and 
sugar to taste. 

70 



CAKES 

"With weights and measures just and true. 
With stoves of even heat; 
Well buttered tins, and quiet nerves, 
Success will be complete." 

Cake is rich bread, some cakes being richer than others, that 
is, having more butter, sugar, and eggs, in proportion to the flour. 
All cakes belong to one of two classes, butter cakes and sponge 
cakes. Several kinds of cake can easily be made from one recipe, 
by varying the flavorings, spices, and fruits, by baking the mix- 
ture in pans of dififerent shapes, by frosting the cake, or by leav- 
ing it plain. In mixing butter cakes, cream the butter and sugar 
thoroughly ; unless they become partially liquefied before the 
other ingredients are added, the cake will be coarse grained, per- 
haps heavy. Add the yolks of the eggs, beaten slightly, then a 
little of the milk, then part of the flour with the other dry ingredi- 
ents sifted with it, a little more milk, and so on until all the flour 
and milk is stirred in, taking care to keep the mixture the same 
degree of stiffness. Fold in the whites beaten very stiff. Add 
the flavoring and beat the mixture well. If fruit is to be added, 
fold it in, well floured, last of all. 

In mixing sponge cakes, beat the yolks till thick and lemon 
colored. Beat the sugar into them, add the flavoring (and other 
liquid if the recipe calls for any). Beat the whites till stiff and 
dry ; slip them into the mixing bowl ; sift the flour over them and 
fold all together. Sponge cake beaten after the flour is added will 
be close and tough. 

In mixing molasses cakes, mix milk and molasses and stir them 
into the flour. Add soda last, sifted with a little flour reserved for 
this purpose. Fruit must be well floured and added last or it 
will sink to the bottom of the loaf. 

The oven should be less hot for cake than for bread. When 
a cake is done, it shrinks from the pan and a small tooth pick run 
in it comes out clean. Take it at once from the pan and set it 
on a clean towel or sieve to cool. 

Use only the best materials in making cake. Otherwise the 
cake will not pay for the trouble of making it. See that the fire 
is arranged so that the oven will be hot by the time the cake is 
mixed. Cake containing molasses burns easily. Bake such cakes 

71 



and any thick loaves requiring long baking in tins lined with 
greased paper. If the cake browns in 15 minutes, the heat is too 
great. Reduce it or make a tent of brown paper over the pan. A 
pan of water put in the oven will reduce the heat. 

Standard Cake 

% cup butter 3^ cup milk 

y^ cup sugar 1^^ tsp. baking powder 

2 eggs, yolks and whites 1^ cups flour 
separately 3^ tsp. vanilla 

Mix according to rule for butter cakes. 

Spice Cake 

1 scant cup butter 3 eggs, yolks and whites 

1 cup brown sugar beaten separately 

%. cup molasses ^ cup water 

% tsp. baking powder 3 cups flour 

1 tsp. cinnamon 5^ cup raisins 

3^ tsp. allspice ^ cup currants 

^ tsp. clove 54 cup citron 

^ tsp. nutmeg 

Mix according to the directions for butter cake, adding the 
molasses to the butter and sugar. Remember to add the soda last. 

Gold Cake 

^ scant cup butter 2 tsp. baking powder 

lyi cups sugar 2 cups flour 

Yolks of 4 eggs % tsp. grated nutmeg 
Yz cup milk 

Make gold and silver cake at the same time, to use both parts of 
the eggs. 

Silver Cake 

^ cup butter, scant 2 tsp. baking powder 

1^ cups sugar 2 cups flour 

Whites of 4 eggs Yz tsp. almond extract 
Yi cup milk 

Mix according to rule for butter cake. 

Sponge Cake 

1^4 cups sugar, powdered or granulated, 5 eggs, yolks and 
whites beaten separately, 1^4 cups flour, juice and grated rind of 
Yi lemon, Ya tsp. salt. Mix according to rule for sponge cakes. 

72 



sponge Cake 

1^ cups sugar 2 tsp. baking powder 

3 eggs, yolks and whites 1^ cups flour 

separate % tsp. salt 

^2 cup water ^ tsp. lemon extract 

Apple Sauce Cake 

Cream 1 cup sugar and ^2 cup butter, and add 1 cup of floured 
raisins, pinch each of salt, cloves, nutmeg, and cinnamon. Dis- 
solve 1 teaspoon soda in a bit of warm water and stir it into a 
cup of sour apple sauce letting it foam over the ingredients in the 
bowl. Beat all thoroughly and add 1^ cups of pastry flour. 
Bake 45 minutes. 





Fruit Cake 


6 eggs 

1 coffee cup butter 




1 cup molasses 
j4 tsp. soda 


2 cups sugar 
2 lbs. raisins 




2 tsp. allspice 
2 lbs. currants 


1 ounce citron 




5 cups flour 


Bake 2 hours in a slow 


oven. 





Fudge Cake 
2 squares chocolate 1 tbsp. butter 

^ cup milk ^2 cup milk 

1 egg yolk 1 tsp. vanilla 

1 scant tsp. soda 1^4 cups flour 

1 cup sugar 
Cook the chocolate, the milk and the egg yolk until thick ; cool 
and add the sugar and the butter creamed, then the other ingre- 
dients. 

Layer Cake 

1 egg 3 tbsp. melted butter 

1 cup sugar 2 tsp. cream tartar 

1 cup milk 1 tsp. soda 

2 cups flour 

Filling. Use 1 egg, 1 cup water, grated rind and juice of 1 
lemon ; pour this slowly on 1 cup sugar mixed with 2 tbsp. flour ; 
cook in a double boiler until smooth like cream. 

Devil Cake 

2 cups brown sugar 2 squares chocolate 

^2 cup butter 1 tsp. soda 

^ cup sweet milk ly^ cups flour 

^ cup sour milk 3 eggs or 6 egg yolks 
Boil sweet milk and chocolate until smooth; add to the sugar 
and butter ; flavor to taste. 

73 



Small Angel Cake 

Whites of 4 eggs beaten stiff ^ cup bread flour 

1 cup granulated sugar ^ tsp. cream tartar 

Sift flour and sugar together 4 or 5 times and fold lightly into 
the beaten egg whites. Bake in a moderate oven about 20 minutes. 

Spanish Cake 

^ cup butter Yolks of 2 eggs 

l}i cups flour 1 tsp. cinnamon 

1 cup sugar }4 cup milk 

3 tsp. baking powder Whites of 2 eggs beaten 

Bake in a shallow tin and spread with a caramel frosting. 

Date Cake 

1 cup sugar 1^4 cups flour 

^ cup butter 1 tsp. baking powder 

5^ cup milk ^2 lb. dates stoned and 

2 eggs yolks and whites chopped 

separate 

Cream Cake 

Break 2 eggs in a cup and fill the cup with thick sour cream. 
Add 1 cup sugar, lj4 cups flour, 1 tsp. salt, and 1 tsp. soda dis- 
solved in 1 tbsp. hot water. Flavor with nutmeg or vanilla and 
for variety, add ^ cup chopped walnuts. 

Scripture Cake 

4 cups I Kings 4: 22, 1 cup Judges 5 : 25 (last clause), 2 cups 
Jeremiah 6:20 (sugar), 2 cups I Sam. 30:12 (raisins), 2 cups 
Nahum 3 : 12, 1 tbsp. Numbers 17, 1 large tbsp. I Sam. 14 : 25, 
season to taste of II Chron. 9 : 9, 6 of Jeremiah 17 : 11, Pinch Lev. 
2:13, ^ cup Gen. 24:20, 2 tsp. Amos 4:5 (baking powder), 
Follow Solomon's advice for making good boys and you will have 
a good cake. Prov. 23 : 14. 

Marble Cake 

2 eggs ^ tsp. salt 

1 cup sour cream 1 tsp. soda dissolved in water 

1 cup white sugar 2 cups flour 

Take 5'^ of the mixture and add 2 tbsp. molasses, 3^ teaspoon 
cloves, cinnamon and nutmeg ; add a pinch of soda and a rounding 
spoonful of flour. 



War Cake 

1 cup cold water ^ tsp. salt 

% cup raisins % tsp. ground cloves 

1 cup brown sugar Vi tsp. cinnamon 

Boil above 5 minutes, let cool, then add iVi cups flour, 1 tea- 
spoon soda, walnuts, if desired. Beat well, and bake in slow oven 
% hour. 

Chocolate Marble Cake 
1 cup sugar 1 tsp. cream tartar 

1 egg y^ tsp. soda 

2 tbsp. melted butter V-k cups flour 
y^y cup sweet milk 

Add 2 teaspoons of chocolate or cocoa to one-third of the mix- 
ture and flavor to taste. 

Raised Cake 

1 large cup of soft bread dough, 1 cup sugar, y^ cup of butter 
creamed. Add to the bread dough a little cinnamon and nutmeg 
and knead thoroughly. Add y. cup milk, 2 tsp. cream tartar, 1 
tsp. soda, 1 cup raisins, and flour to make a soft dough but not 
stiff. Lastly add 1 egg. Bake in a slow oven immediately. 

Layer Cake 

2 eggs S tsp. baking powder 

\y2 cups sugar 2^^ cups flour 

% cup butter 1 tsp. flavonng 

1 cup milk 
Cream sugar and butter, add eggs, beaten, then flour and baking 
powder mixed. Bake in moderate oven. 

Molasses Pound Cake 

1 cup molasses 2 tsp. soda 

1 cup sugar 1 tsp. cinnamon 

11/^ cups milk 2 tsp. ginger 

1 cup butter 1 tsp. cloves or allspice 

3 eggs Raisins if desired 

4 cups flour % tsp. salt 

Cream butter and sugar, add eggs, milk and other ingredients. 
Bake in slow oven. 

Lightning Cake 

Xy-y cups flour 1 ^g% 

1 tsp. baking powder 1 cup milk 

1 cup granulated sugar 1 tsp. vanilla 

34 tsp. salt Butter size of walnut 

Sift together flour, baking powder, sugar and salt. Melt 
butter in cup, break in egg and fill cup with milk. Mix this into 
dry ingredients. Bake in quick oven. 

75 



COOKIES, DOUGHNUTS AND 
GINGERBREAD 

Brownies 

}^ cup butter 1 egg well beaten 

^ cup powdered sugar ^ cup bread flour 

ys cup Porto Rico molasses 1 cup pecans chopped 

Mix the ingredients in the order given. Bake in small, shallow, 
fancy cake tins using a teaspoon, or less, of batter to each cake. 

Brownies 

J4 cup butter Salt to taste 

1 cup sugar 1 tsp. vanilla 

2 eggs well beaten 2 squares melted chocolate 
^ cup flour 1 cup chopped walnuts 

Drop by teaspoons on a buttered tin. Bake 10 or 15 minutes. 

Filled Cookies 

1 cup sugar 3j4 cups flour 

J^ cup shortening 2 tsp. cream tartar 

1 egg 1 tsp. soda 

}i cup milk 
Roll thin. Place cookies in a pan, put 1 teaspoon of filling on 
each and place another cooky on top. 
Filling. 

1 cup raisins 1 tsp. flour 

^ cup sugar Juice of 1 lemon 

}4 cup water 
Cook in a double boiler until thick. 

Mother's Cookies 

1 cup thick sour cream 1 egg 

1 cup sugar 1 tsp. soda dissolved in as 

1 tsp. vanilla little milk as possible 
Flour to roll 

Handle as soft as possible, sprinkle with sugar and bake in a 
quick oven. 

Molasses Drop Cookies 

1 cup sugar 1 cup hot water 

1 cup molasses 1 tsp. soda 

3^ cup butter and lard 1 tsp. cinnamon 

mixed 5 cups flour 
1 egg 
Drop on buttered tin and bake quickly. Place 1 raisin on each 
cooky before baking. 

76 



Cream Cookies 

1 cup sour cream 1 tsp. soda 

1 cup sugar Taste of nutmeg 

1 egg Little salt 

Dissolve the soda in the cream, add sugar and egg and use only 
flour enough so that the dough can be dropped from the spoon. 

Vanilla Wafers 
1 cup sugar ^ cup butter, scant 

1 egg 4 tbsp. milk 

1 tsp. soda 2 tsp. cream tartar 

1 tsp. vanilla Flour to stiffen 

Roll very thin (about ^ inch thick). Bake in a hot oven not 
more than 5 minutes. 

Oatmeal Cookies 

1 cup sugar 1 cup chopped raisins 
^ cup lard and butter mixed 2 cups oatmeal, dry 

2 eggs 2 cups flour, scant 
6 tbsp. milk 1 tsp. cinnamon 

Little salt }i tsp. soda 

Drop in teaspoon fuls on buttered tins. 

Doughnuts. No. 1. 

1 egg Little ginger 

ys cup sugar Little nutmeg 

1 cup sweet milk 2 tsp. cream tartar 

Pinch of salt 1 tsp. soda 
Add bread flour enough to roll out. 

Doughnuts. No. 2 

1 egg 2 tbsp. shortening 

3/2 cup sugar J/2 tsp. soda 

1 cup sour milk Salt and a little nutmeg 

Add flour enough to roll soft. After frying dip each one 
quickly in a basin of hot water. 

Crullers. No. 1 

2 eggs Pinch of salt 

2 tbsp. sugar Flour to make stiff 

1 tbsp. butter 

Roll to about 3^2 inch thick. Cut in strips eight or ten inches 
long and one-half inch wide. Hold one end of strip firmly and 
roll the other end to make a twist ; wind over the fingers into a 
lover's knot. Fry like doughnuts. 

77 



Crullers. No. 2. 

1 coffee cup sugar 3 tsp. lard 

2 eggs 1 tsp. cream tartar 
y^ coffee cup milk % tsp. soda 

Add flour enough to roll out and fry in hot lard. 

Raised Doughnuts 

1 pint milk % yeast cake 

1 tbsp. melted butter Flour to make a soft batter 

Pinch of salt 

Mix as for biscuit without kneading and let rise over night. In 
the morning add 2 eggs well beaten, 1 cup sugar and a little nut- 
meg. Mold, roll out, let rise, and when light, fry in hot lard. 

Soft Gingerbread 

1 egg % tsp. cinnamon 

y? cup sugar 3*^ tsp. ginger 

y cup molasses 3 tbsp. melted shortening 

% cup boiling water 1% cups of flour 

% tsp. soda 

Sour Milk Gingerbread 

1 cup molasses % tsp. salt 

1 cup sour milk 2 tsp. ginger 

2% cups flour % cup melted butter 

1% tsp. soda 

Cheese Gingerbread 

1 cup molasses 34 cup milk or water 

34 lb. soft cheese 2 cups flour 

1 tsp. soda 2 tsp. ginger 

1 egg y tsp. salt 

Rub cheese and flour together, add soda, ginger and salt, then 
milk and molasses. Beat until smooth, add well-beaten egg. 

Nut Drop Cakes 



23^ cups flour 


1 tsp. cloves 


1 tsp, soda 


1 cup sugar 


1 tsp. salt 


2 cups sour milk 


1 tsp. cinnamon 


2 tbsp. butter (melted) 


% cup each raisins and 


34 cup molasses 



walnuts 

Mix and sift dry ingredients, add milk, butter and molasses, 
lastly raisins and nuts. Drop in small spoonfuls on buttered tins 
and bake. 

78 



ICINGS AND FILLINGS 

Boiled Icing 

1 cup sugar and 2 tablespoons cold water boiled until it strings. 
Add the white of one egg well beaten to the hot syrup and beat 
until thick. Flavor with vanilla. 

Caramel Frosting 

Boil ys cup of sugar, j/s cup milk and a small piece of butter 
until it will hair from the spoon. Stir until right consistency. 
Flavor with vanilla and spread. 

Maple Sugar Frosting 

y2 cup maple sugar 4 tbsp. milk 

y cup granulated sugar 
Boil until it will harden in water. 

Maple Sugar Frosting 

Boil 1 cup of maple syrup and ^ cup grated maple sugar until 
it will hair. Cool and add the beaten whites of 2 eggs. 

Mocha Icing 

Cream 1 cup powdered sugar, y^ cup butter, and add 1 tsp. 
vanilla and 2 tsp. cocoa. Add 2 tsp. hot coffee (a little at a time) 
and beat until creamy. 

Chocolate Filling 

2 heaping tablespoons cocoa. ^ cup powdered sugar (or more 
if liked) 1 cup cold water, and 1 heaping tablespoon cornstarch 
dissolved in 3.^ cup cold water, a small piece of butter. Cook in 
a double boiler until thick and flavor with vanilla. 

Raisin Filling 

y cup chopped raisins 5 tbsp. sweet milk 

1 cup sugar 
Boil sugar and milk together for 5 minutes and then add raisins. 

Custard Filling 

Heat 1 cup of milk in a double boiler and stir into it 1 beaten 
egg, Yz cup sugar, 1 tbsp. butter and 1 tbsp. cornstarch. Cook 
until thick like custard. Remove from fire and flavor with lemon 
extract. 

79 



Tutti-Frutti Frosting 

34 cup figs 34 cup cocoanut 

34 cup walnuts 34 cup raisins 

Chop figs, walnuts, and raisins ; make a boiled frosting and add 
the ingredients. 

Marshmallow Paste 

% cup sugar 2 tbsp. hot water 

34 cup milk 3^ tsp. vanilla 

34 lb. marshmallows 
Boil the sugar and milk together six minutes. Melt the marsh- 
mallows and add the water. Combine the two mixtures, add the 
vanilla and beat until stiff enough to spread. 

Chocolate Frosting 

% cup sugar 3 tbsp. milk 

2 squares chocolate 1 egg yolk 

Melt the chocolate, add sugar and milk and cook in a double 
boiler until smooth. Add the egg yolk and cook one minute. 
Spread on the cake. 

Quick White Frosting 

Place the white of one egg in a bowl and add enough powdered 
sugar to make a smooth paste. Beat all up together and flavor 
with vanilla. 

Quick Chocolate Icing 

Wet enough powdered sugar with a little milk and stir until it is 
a smooth paste. Add a little cocoa and beat all together well. 
When of the right consistency, spread on the cake. 

Peanut Filling 

1 qt. peanuts chopped fine 34 cup milk 

2 cups powdered sugar Pinch of salt 
1 tbsp. vinegar 

Mix sugar and milk. Add vinegar, salt and peanuts. 

Cream Filling 

1 pt. milk 3^ cup sugar 

2 tsp. cornstarch 34 tsp. salt 

1 egg 1 tsp. vanilla 

Boil the milk, add the other ingredients, mixed with a little 
milk. When cooked, add piece of butter size of an egg. 

Chocolate Filling 

3^ cake chocolate 1 cup milk 

34 cup sugar 3 tsp. cornstarch 

Shave ofif chocolate. Add just enough hot water to dissolve 
it. Then add sugar and cornstarch to thicken it. 

80 



CHAFING DISHES 

Welsh Rarebit 

Yz lb. cheese 1 tsp. mustard 

2 eggs y^ tsp. salt 

One speck of cayenne Yz cup sweet cream 

1 tbsp. butter 
Break the cheese in small pieces, put in with the other ingredi- 
ents in a bright saucepan and set over boiling water. Stir until 
the cheese melts, then spread the mixture on slices of crisp toast; 
serve immediately. 

Oyster Rarebit 

1 lb. cheese, chopped fine 1 tsp. dry mustard 
1 ^ZZ yolk Pinch of salt, dash of red, 

1 tbsp. butter two of black pepper 

1 cup cream 
Put the butter into the chafing dish, also the cheese ; let it sim- 
mer. After it is melted gradually add the following : to the yolk 
of tgg broken into the cup add the mustard, red and black pepper, 
pour into cheese, stir constantly. Heat again and serve on toast 
or soda crackers. 

Dropped Eggs in Cream 

Yz cup sweet cream 6 eggs 

Heat the cream and break the eggs into the cream one by one. 
Sprinkle each ^g% with salt and pepper. Cook slowly ten minutes 
and serve on toast. Delicious for either breakfast or tea dish. 

Chicken Wiggle 

5 level tbsp. butter 1 cup chicken cut in pieces 

3 level tbsp. flour 1 cup canned peas 

] Yz cups milk Salt and pepper 

Serve on crackers or nicely toasted bread. 

Ham Rechauffee 

Put in chafing dish 1 tumbler currant jelly. When warm add 
1 coffee cup of boiled ham cut in squares ; when thoroughly heated 
serve on toast. 

English Monkey 

1 cup stale bread crumbs 1 tbsp. butter 

1 cup milk Y2 cup mild cheese 

Soak the bread crumbs in the milk for about 15 minutes. IVIelt 
the butter and add the ^ cup of cheese cut in small pieces : when 

81 



cheese is melted add the soaked bread crumbs. 1 egg slightly 
beaten, }'2 teaspoon salt and a few grains of cayenne. Cook until 
smooth and thickened and serve poured over toasted crackers. 

Italian Monkey 
1 pint milk 1 tbsp. flour 

Thicken the milk with the flour : add slowly 2 ounces of cheese 
cut fine. 1 ounce of butter. 1 teaspoon salt and 1 egg well beaten 
and mixed with 2 tablespoons of cold water or milk. Simmer 5 
minutes and serve hot. Should be eaten with dry toast. 

Cheese Rarebit 

1 tbsp. flour H tsp. salt 

1 tbsp. butter 1 cup milk 

^ tsp. mustard 34 lb. cheese 

Rub flour and melted butter together w-ith seasonings. Then 
pour over it hot milk, stirring vigorously until thickened. Cut 
cheese into it. When melted pour over bread or crackers toasted 
on one side, the mixture being poured on the untoasted side. 
Cost, 16 cents ; food value equals % pound beef. 

Salmon Wiggle 

2 tbsp. butter 1^4 cups milk 
2 tbsp. flour % cup cream 

Yg tsp. salt 1 can salmon 

Pinch of paprika 1 can peas 

Melt butter, then slowly add flour until creamy, stir constantly 
to avoid getting limipy. Then add milk and cream, and stir until 
this becomes thick like cream. Add salmon cut fine and last 
the peas. Then pinch of salt and paprika. Serve on saltines 
or toast. 

Cheese Rice Fondu 

1 cup boiled rice 1 cup grated cheese 

2 tbsp. milk % tsp. salt 

4 ^gs 1 tsp. meat flavoring 

Heat rice in milk, add other ingredients and cook slowly until 
cheese is melted. Serve on crackers or toast. 



82 



CANNING 

We do well to take a lesson from the bees, and in the long 
summer days to store up food for the winter. If we can kill the 
bacteria in food, and then seal it up so that no more can get in, it 
will keep indefinitely. This we do in canning. 

Canning 

Can each fruit in its season, when it is best and cheapest. Select 
it under-ripe rather than over-ripe. To insure success in preserv- 
ing it observe carefully the following directions. 

Preparing the Jars 

For a small family use the pint jars. Buy jars with tight-fitting 
covers, and fit them each year with new rubber rings. Old rubber 
becomes porous, and lets in the air. Fit each jar with a ring and a 
cover ; pour water into them, and invert them to see if they are 
airtight. If not, do not use them. Sterilize jars and covers by 
placing them in a dishpan of cold water and letting this slowly 
come to the boiling point, and boil fifteen minutes. 

Preparing for Cooking Fruit 

Strawberries. Wash and hull the berries ; weigh them, and add 
one-third of a pound of sugar for every pound of fruit. Let them 
stand for 45 minutes or longer. Cook the berries slowly until the 
juice is thick and syrupy, and the berries soft. Remove the scum 
as it rises. 

Peaches. Pare the peaches, dropping them into cold water. 
Make a syrup, allowing 1 cup of water and 1 pound of sugar to 3 
pounds of peaches ; boil it 15 minutes. Cut peaches in two, stone 
them, and put peaches and stones into the syrup. The flavor of 
peaches is improved by cooking the stones with them. Cook the 
fruit until, when tried with a knitting needle, it is found to be 
soft. 

Pears, Cherries, Apples and Plums may be canned like peaches. 

Directions for filling jars 

Remove the jars from the boiling water, and stand them on a 
cloth wet in boiling water. Place a silver spoon in the jar to be 
filled first. Silver, being a good conductor of heat, absorbs heat 
from the fruit, thus further lessening the risk of the jar's break- 
ing. Dip a rubber ring into the boiling water (to sterilize it), and 
place it on the jar. Dip a silver spoon into boiling water, and with 
it filled the jar with fruit; then fill the jar to overflowing with 
syrup. With the handle of the spoon press the fruit away from 
the side of the jar, that any air-bubbles between may escape. Put 



on the cover, and screw it tight. Turn the jar upside down; if 
syrup oozes out, remove cover and rubber, put on another rubber, 
refill with boiling syrup, and again screw down the cover. The 
jars must be sealed airtight. 

Spiced Currants with Raisins 

3 lbs. sugar 5 lbs. currants 

1 pint vinegar 1 lb. seeded raisins 

Make a syrup of the sugar and vinegar and skim. Boil J^ hour 
and add 1 tablespoon cinnamon and y^ tablespoon each of cloves, 
allspice and nutmeg. 

Tomato Butter 

7 lbs. ripe tomatoes 1 oz. ground cinnamon 

3 lbs. sugar J^ oz. ground cloves 

1 pint cider vinegar 

Boil 3 hours, or until rich and thick. It should keep without 
sealing. 

For Canning Blackberries, Blueberries, Red Raspberries, 
and Strawberries. 

Prepare the jars the same as for other preserves. Pick over 
the fruit very carefully. Fill each can with the fruit ; add one cup 
of sugar to each can. Be sure that the sugar is dissolved in hot 
water or it will settle in the bottom of the jar. Fill each can with 
water, placing the cover on and seal without rubber. Put little 
blocks of wood in the bottom of the boiler setting the jars on them. 
Let them boil for about Yz hour. After they have boiled remove 
covers, put on the rubbers and seal tight. 

Peaches may be canned in this way also. Tomatoes may be 
canned in this way without any sugar. 

For Canning Cranberries 

Pick the berries over very carefully and see that the jars are 
clean. Fill the jars with berries and fill with cold water. After 
this is done set the jars away. 

Rhubarb may be canned in the same way. 

Canning Tomatoes 

Select small, round, smooth tomatoes : scald and peel them. 
Pack them in sterilized jars and fill the jars with boiling water. 
Sterilize the covers and put them on without screwing down. 
Set the jars on small blocks of wood in a kettle of cold water, 
and let the water heat slowly for 15 minutes. Remove the covers, 
fill the jars to overflowing with boiling water, put on the rubber 
rings, and screw the covers down. 

84 



Canned Beets 

To 1 quart of vinegar use 1 cup of sugar. Fill can with hot 
sliced beets and cover with the hot vinegar and seal. If the 
vinegar is too strong use a little water. 

Canned S'weet Corn- 
Take 9 cups of sweet corn cut from the cobs, H cup sugar, % 
cup salt, 1 pint of water. Boil hard for 5 minutes. Put up m air- 
tight cans. The corn should soak before using or rinse 3 or 3 
times while cooking. 

To Prepare Pineapple 
Pare and slice lengthwise. Cover parings and cores with hot 
water, cook slowly 1 hour. Add 1 cup of sugar to each piece. 
Strain juice and let boil, then pour over pineappl^. Set away to 
cool. This improves by standing a day. 
Spiced Rhubarb 
3 lbs. rhubarb 1 tbsp. ground cloves 

2 lbs. sugar 1 tbsp. cinnamon 

1 cup vinegar 
Cut the rhubarb in inch pieces, mix other ingredients with it 
and bring slowly to a boil. Boil fast for 30 minutes, pour into 
jelly glasses. 

Grape Conserve 
5 lbs. grapes 3 oranges 

5 lbs. sugar 1 lemon 

1 lb. seeded raisins Grated rind and juice 

y2 lb. walnut meats 
Pulp grapes, cook pulp to remove seeds, then strain. Add skins 
and cook 15 minutes. To this add sugar, oranges, lemon and 
raisins. Boil 1 hour. Add chopped nuts 1/2 hour before it is done. 
Put the raisins and oranges through the food chopper. 

Canning Fruit without Sugar 

Rhubarb and gooseberries may be canned without cooking 
because they are so acid. 

Rhubarb. Wash and peel the rhubarb if tough (if tender, do 
not remove the skins), and cut into inch-length pieces. Pack the 
sterilized and cooled jars full of the fruit and place each under 
the cold water spigot. Let the water run into the jars with as 
much force as possible for 10 to 15 minutes to expel the air, then 
cover and fasten as tightly as possible. Be sure that the jar is 
filled to the very brim with water to drive out all air bubbles. 
Let the jars stand for a few hours, then tighten again, and put 
away in the preserve closets. 

Gooseberries should be topped and tailed before canning, but 
are canned in exactly the same way as rhubarb. 

Cranberries, which are so plentiful in the late fall and winter, 
may be kept in the same way as rhubarb and gooseberries. 

85 



Reviving an Ancient Custom — Drying Viegetables 
and Fruits 

In the days of our foremothers, the drying of vegetables and 
fruits was a much more common process than canning and pre- 
serving, and in these times, when every possible means of con- 
servation of food is being urged, it is well for housewives to 
understand the method of drying. 

Vegetables lend themselves especially well to drying because 
of the small percentage of moisture. By the removing of this 
small amount of water, vegetables may be kept almost indefi- 
nitely. 

Drying vegetables require air. If not dried in a current of 
air, at least give them as much as possible during the process. 
Place the vegetables on small meshed wire trays, or in large 
shallow tin pans. Place trays in a cold oven. When the ther- 
mometer registers 120 degrees F., open the door half an inch, 
and keep the oven at not more than 125 degrees for two hours. 
Then raise it gradually to 140 degrees, and finish drying. Turn 
the vegetables once or twice during the drying process. Peas will 
be dry enough in about seven hours. It is far better to accom- 
plish the work slowly and gradually than to attempt to hurry it. 
Small vegetables like peas and lima beans will dry more quickly 
than potatoes and carrots. The latter should be sliced before 
drying. Apples and peaches, also sweet potatoes, are excellent 
when sliced and dried. 

When finished place the vegetables in airtight receptacles and 
keep in a dry place. 



Quinces 

Wash and wipe the quinces, pare and core, saving the peel. 
Then cut into quarters. Drop each piece into cold water to pre- 
vent discoloration. When all are ready, place them in a preserv- 
ing kettle and cover with cold water. Simmer very gently till 
tender. Lift from the water with a skimmer, and add the parings 
to the water. Cook them for half an hour, keeping them closely 
covered. Then strain and measure the liquid. Allow a pound 
of sugar to a pint and cook 10 minutes, skimming often. Add 
the quinces and simmer them until they are clear and tender and 
a rich red. By keeping the kettle covered the quinces will be a 
much brighter color. When clear and transparent, lift carefully 
from the syrup and place in jars. Boil the syrup a few moments 
longer and pour over the fruit. 

86 



Canning Corn on the Cob 

Pack corn on cob in two-quart jars and fill with cold water, 
shaking until no bubbles rise, add 1 teaspoon salt, fill the jars to 
running over with cold water, put on rubber and cover but do 
not screw tight. Set the jars on a rack in a boiler of cold water 
and boil five hours, adding more water as it boils away. Seal 
tight, and set away in cool dry place. 

String beans, whole, may be canned the same way. Choose 
small tender ones. 

Canned Asparagus 

Wash it well, scrape stocks, and cut off tough ends, and can 
same as corn. 

Canned Spinach 

Wash the spinach, rinse it thoroughly in several waters, then 
cook it in a very small quantity of salted water as for the table. 
When tender, pack into sterilized hot jars, and force down with 
a spoon. Pour the water from the spinach, or boiling water, into 
the jar until it overflows, then adjust rubbers, seal and cook for 
1% hours, in jars. Fasten tops and set away. 

Canned dandelions, beet greens and szviss chard are prepared 
as above. 

Canned Beets, Carrots and Turnips 

Choose young vegetables, wash well but do not peel them. 
Cover with boiling unsalted water, cook 30 minutes, then remove 
skin and pack into glass jars. For beets, pour three tablespoons 
of vinegar in each jar, then fill with cold water. Place the rubber 
in position and the tops lightly on the jars, stand in boiler and 
cook for 1 hour. Then tighten the tops of the jars as quickly 
as possible. 

For carrots and turnips do not put vinegar in jar. Fill with 
cold water. 

Canned Peas, Lima Beans and Com 

Green peas and lima beans are shelled and washed. Corn is 
husked and freed from every particle of silk, and the pulp cut 
from the ears with a sharp knife. Sterilize jars, place the corn 
pulp, lima beans or peas in them, cool. Sterilized water must 
be poured in to fill the jars containing the peas and beans, but no 
water is necessary with the corn. Add % teaspoon of salt to 
pint of water. This will keep the vegetables green. Place the 
tops on lightly, then stand the jars in the boiler as in foregoing 
recipe. Pour tepid water around them. Cover and boil without 
stopping 2^ hours for peas or Hma beans, 3^^ hours for corn. 
Then finish as in above directions. 

87 



JELLY MAKING 

Before the principles of sterilizing were understood, fruit was 
preserved by cooking it with its weight of sugar. Only jellies 
are commonly done in this way, now. 

The juice of fruits that contain considerable pectin can be made 
into jelly. Pectin, although a carbohydrate, in some ways re- 
sembles gelatine. It dissolves in boiling water, and stiffens on 
cooling. It is most abundant in the harder parts of the fruit, the 
core and skin. 

Apples, quinces, crab apples, currants, and grapes make the 
best jellies. 

General Directions for Making Jelly 

Wash the fruit, and remove stems and imperfections. Cut 
large fruit into pieces. With watery fruits, such as grapes and 
currants, use no water. With apples and quinces use enough 
water to cover them. Cook the fruit until the juice flows, crush- 
ing it with a spoon. Remove it from the fire and strain it through 
a pointed bag hung from the ceiling or between two chairs. Do 
not squeeze the bag at first ; when nearly all has strained through, 
the bag may be squeezed. Keep this last juice by itself ; the jelly 
made from it will not be clear, but can be used for jelly cake, etc. 
Measure the juice, and measure out an equal quantity of sugar. 
Reheat the juice, add the sugar, and let boil. As scum forms 
remove it. When a little of the jelly dropped on a cold plate 
thickens slightly, pour into jelly glasses and set aside till firm. 

Quince Jelly 

Cut the quinces into quarters without paring or coring, cover 
with water, and cook until soft. Strain, and proceed according 
to "General Directions for Making Jelly." 

Jelly must be covered to protect it from mold. Paraffin is con- 
venient for this purpose. 

To Cover Jelly with Paraffin 

Melt the paraffin in a saucepan and pour it over the jelly to the 
depth of about one-eighth of an inch. If, on cooling, any bubbles 
form, exposing the surface of the jelly add another coat of paraf- 
fin. 

After filling fruit jars let them stand upside down over night. 
In the morning, screw the tops down as tightly as possible, wipe 
the jars carefully, label them and put them away in a cool, dark 
place. 

88 



Spiced Apple Jell 

1 quart apple juice 1 tbsp. each of clove, allspice 

1 quart sugar and cinnamon 

1 cup vinegar 

Cook it until it w^ill jell and then put in tumblers. When cold 
cover with a thin coating of paraffin. 

Spiced Grapes 

5 lbs. grapes 2 tsp. cinnamon and allspice 

3 lbs. sugar % tsp. cloves 
1 cup vinegar 

Pulp the grapes, boil skins until tender ; cook pulp and strain 
through a sieve, and add it to the skins ; put in the sugar, spices 
and vinegar. Boil until it becomes thick like marmalade and turn 
into glasses. 

Nut Marmalade 

6 lbs. sugar 2 lemons 

4 lbs. rhubarb 1 lb. English walnut meats 
4 oranges 

Remove the bitter rind of the oranges and lemons, slice them 
thin, cover with water and let stand all night. Boil till soft in the 
same water. Cut the rhubarb, add the sugar, lemons, oranges 
and lastly the nuts cut fine. Boil till thick and clear. Make early 
in the season when the rhubarb is tender. 

Orange Marmalade 

6 large navel oranges 3 large lemons 

Slice these about % inch thick. Measure and to every pint of 
fruit add 3 pints of water. Put in a jar and let it stand 24 hours. 
Then boil until tender and let stand 24 hours. Measure and add 
the sugar pint for pint. Let it come to a boil and boil furiously 
25 minutes. This will make 15 or 20 glasses. A grape fruit may 
be added. 

Conserves 

Pineapple Conserve is especially delicate. Peel and grate 
coarsely or run through the food chopper, three ripe pineapples, 
and add to them the grated rind and pulp of two lemons and three 
oranges, rejecting the seeds. Cook together for half an hour, 
then add an equal quantity of sugar and boil gently till thick as 
marmalade. 

Mixed Print Conserve. Pare twenty-four ripe peaches, ten 
pears and fifteen blue plums, cut the fruit in quarters and add 

89 



two pounds of white grapes, halved and freed from the seeds. 
Cook all together with an equal quantity of sugar until the syrup 
is thick and heavy, then place in sterilized jars and when cool 
seal. 

Carrot Conserve. The children will enjoy this on their bread 
or cakes. It is easily made and inexpensive. Select young car- 
rots, scrape and wash them, then slice thin. Cover with cold 
water and cook till soft enough to press through a sieve. Meas- 
ure the pulp and add the strained juice of two lemons, and the 
grated rind of one lemon and one orange, also three-fourths the 
quantity of light brown sugar. Cook till thick, and pour into 
tumblers. 

Ginger Pear. One peck hard pears, peel and cut in %, remove 
core, slice 4 lemons thin, add % pound preserved ginger cut in 
small pieces, 5 pounds granulated sugar, layer of pears, lemon 
and ginger, sprinkle thickly with sugar, add more fruit, have 
sugar at to.p ; let it stand over night, set over slow fire, bring to 
boiling point very slowly, let it simmer until the pears are done; 
will be dark red in color ; seal very hot. 

Currant Jelly. Free the currants from the leaves and stems ; 
wash them in a sieve. Put a small quantity into an agate pre- 
serving kettle and crush them gently. This makes a little juice 
in the kettle to start with so when placed over the heat the fruit 
will not stick. Let the currants simply heat slowly and not cook. 
When they are hot, crush them. Put a sieve over a large bowl 
and over this spread a double square of cheese-cloth. Turn the 
fruit and juice into the cheese-cloth and let it drain as long as it 
will drip ; never use any pressure, for that would make the jelly 
"cloudy." Measure the juices. To every pint of juice may be 
added one pint of granulated sugar. Let the juice boil 15 minutes 
before adding the sugar, which should be heated first. Then, as 
soon as the sugar is dissolved, pour a spoonful into a dish and 
place on the ice, and if it "jellies" it is ready to put into glasses. 

Oriental Jelly is novel and very delicious. It is made by cook- 
ing rose geranium leaves and two lemon verbena leaves in 2 
quarts of apple juice for a few moments, then proceed as in other 
jellies. 



90 



PICKLES 

Small Cucumber Pickles 

Fill a quart can with small cucumbers after washing, add a 
tablespoonful of salt, a few small pieces horse-radish, fill up with 
cold vinegar; seal. 

Sweet Pickle 

7 cucumbers 1 quart vinegar 

4 lbs. sugar 
Pare the cucumbers, soak in salt water over night; drain 
thoroughly ; cook in water with a small piece of alum ; cook a few 
at a time, drain well before putting into the vinegar. Spice to 
suit yourself. 

Mustard Pickle 

1 qt. cucumbers, cut small 2 heads cauliflower 

1 qt. green tomatoes 3 heads celery 

6 peppers tender string beans 

Cut small, remove all seeds from peppers, cover with 1 cup of 
salt and allow it to stand 24 hours. Drain off water, cover with 
fresh hot water and scald 10 minutes or until tender. 

Dressing. Mix 6 tablespoons of dry mustard with a little vine- 
gar, Yz cup flour, 1 cup sugar, a little cayenne pepper, 1 tablespoon 
tumeric. Stir all into a quart of boiling vinegar. When per- 
fectly smooth pour over the vegetables. 

Piccalilli 

1 peck green tomatoes 1 tsp. all kinds of spice and 

black pepper 

Chop the tomatoes and sprinkle on them 1 cup of salt let stand 
3 hours; then drain over night; partly cook in weak vinegar 
enough to cover ; add the spices and pepper ; when cooked enough 
and partly cold, add 1 pint of maple molasses and 1 cup of horse- 
radish. 

French Mustard 

3 tbsp. mustard 1 ^%g 

1 tbsp. white sugar 1 cup vinegar 

Work the mustard and sugar together; beat the zgg until 
smooth and add the vinegar, a little at a time, working it all 
smooth ; cook in a double boiler, stirring all the time until thick. 
Will last many weeks. Very good with cold meats. 

91 



Chow Chow 

1 head cabbage 2 red peppers 

34 peck small onions J^ pint grated horse-radish 

15 good sized cucumbers 34 lb. white mustard seed 

1 head cauliflower 34 teacup tumeric 

4 green peppers 

Chop the cabbage, slice the cucumbers ; break the cauliflower 
in pieces, chop the peppers with some of the cabbage; throwing 
away the seeds. Add a teacup of salt and pack in a jar and let it 
stand over night. 

In the morning drain off the brine, take 1 part vinegar and 2 
parts water and pour on hot, letting it cook a little ; let stand 
2 days in this vinegar, then drain off and throw away ; add spices 
tumeric and other ingredients ; boil 3 quarts of vinegar with 1 
pound of sugar and pour scalding hot over the pickles for three 
mornings. 

Pickled Pears 

Wash the pears good and clean and put 3 cloves in each one. 
Boil in the following syrup : 

1 quart vinegar 1 tsp. each of cloves, cinna- 

6 cups brown sugar mon and allspice 

Boil the vinegar and sugar together, skim, then add the spices. 
Cook the pears in this syrup until tender. Put away in a jar. 

Chili Sauce. No. 1 
6 large tomatoes 3^ cup sugar 

2 green peppers 2 cups vinegar 

1 tbsp. salt 

Chop fine, simmer until well cooked. 

Chili Sauce. No. 2 

5 large onions 8 cups vinegar 
8 green peppers 5 tbsp. sugar 

30 ripe tomatoes 3 tbsp. salt 

Boil all together about 23^ hours and bottle for use 

Cold Catsup 

3^ peck ripe tomatoes }i teacup white mustard seed 

2 red peppers 1 teacup grated horse-radish 
2 onions 1 tsp. black pepper 

3/2 teacup salt 1 quart vinegar 

3/2 teacup brown sugar 

Chop tomatoes fine and drain ; rub through a colander ; chop 
onions and pepper fine ; mix all together and bottle. 

92 



Cold Tomato and Celery Sauce 

14 peck ripe tomatoes peeled, 1 cup white mustard 

chopped and drained 4 tbsp. bottled horseradish 

through a colander 2 doz. stalks celery 

% cup salt 2 tbsp. white pepper 

1 cup sugar 1 quart cold vinegar 

Mix well and put in a jar. It will keep a year or more. 

Pepper Hash 

14 onions 12 green sweet peppers 

12 red sweet peppers 

Chop not very fine. Take 1 quart of vinegar, 2% cups of sugar, 
2 even tablespoons of salt. Pour boiling water over the chopped 
ingredients, let stand 5 minutes, then drain. Pour more boiling 
water over, let stand 10 minutes, drain. Then boil the whole a 
good half-hour, in the sugar, salt and vinegar. 

Pickled Peaches 

1 qt. sugar 1 stick cinnamon 

1 qt. vinegar Cloves 

Pare peaches and in each insert two or more cloves. Bofl 
sugar, vinegar and cinnamon, add peaches and boil until soft. 
When all the peaches are cooked, place in a jar. Pour liquid 
over them. This should cover the peaches. 

Pepper Relish 

Five red peppers, 5 green peppers, take out seeds and stems, 
chop peppers with 5 onions fine, pour boiling water over them and 
when it has stood 10 minutes strain and add cup sugar, 1 cup 
vinegar, 1% tbsp. salt; boil slowly about 15 minutes and bottle. 

Cucumber Pickles 

Fill a stone jar with medium-sized cucumbers. Add a cup of 
salt, cover with cold vinegar. It is well to change the vinegar in 
about two months. 



93 



DIET FOR THE SICK 

Preparing and administering the patient's food is an important 
part of the nurse's work. 

The Invalid's Tray 

Use a large tray just large enough for the dishes it is to hold. 
Cover it with a spotlessly clean napkin. Arrange it as if you were 
setting a place at the table. Use the prettiest dishes you have. 

Three Kinds of Diet 

Diets for the sick are classified as liquid, light, and convales- 
cent. Liquid diet consists entirely of liquid food. 

Oatmeal Gruel 

%. cup oatmeal 3 tbsp. salt 

1 quart cold water 
Cook these together in a double boiler for two hours. Press 
through a strainer, dilute with milk or cream, reheat, and serve. 
The well-beaten white of an egg stirred into the gruel makes it 
more nutritious. 

Corn Meal Gruel 

2 tbsp. corn meal ^ tsp. salt 

1 tbsp. flour ^ cup cold water 

3 cups boiling water or hot milk 

Mix the meal, flour, and salt ; stir into them enough cold milk 
or water to make a thin paste, and pour this into the hot milk or 
water. If water is used, cook 1 hour in a saucepan ; if milk is 
used 3 hours in a double boiler. Serve hot, dilute with milk or 
cream. 

Shredded Wheat Gruel 

1 shredded wheat biscuit 1 pint boiling water 
1 tsp. salt 1 cup milk 

Cook biscuit, salt and water together for 20 minutes, stirring 
occasionally. After adding the milk, strain. 

Irish Moss Jelly 

y^ cup Irish Moss A few grains salt 

2 cups milk Sugar to suit patient's taste 
After washing the moss, let it soak in the milk in a double boiler 

one hour ; then cook until the milk steams, sweeten and strain 
into molds. When cold, turn out on a colored plate and serve with 
cream and sugar. Vanilla may be used to flavor either jelly or 
cream if the doctor prescribes. 

94 



Meat Preparations 

Beef Juice 
Cut into small bits one pound of lean beef from the top round. 
Put in a glass jar, put on the cover, and set the jar wrapped in 
cloth, or supported on a trivet, in a kettle of cold water. Heat 
the water slowly to about 130 F., or till it steams, let it remain 
at this temperature four or five hours, then strain, pressing the 
meat to obtain all the juice. Reheat, season and serve like beef 
tea. 

Mutton Broth 
2 lbs. neck of mutton Small sprig of parsley 

1 quart cold water Salt 

Bit of bay leaf 
Cut the meat into small pieces, soak it with the herbs 1 hour, 
then simmer 3 hours. Strain, cool, and remove fat. Reheat and 
salt a portion when required. Three tablespoons of rice may be 
boiled and served in the strained broth. 

Clam Broth 
6 or 8 large clams 34 cup water 

Scrub the clams well with a brush and cold water. Heat them 
with one-fourth cupful of water in a covered saucepan till their 
shells open. Boil for one minute after this, and strain through 
fine wire. Serve undiluted, or add a little hot water. 

Wine Jelly 

1% tbsp. granulated gelatine ^ cup sugar 
% cup cold water ^ cup wine (sherry or 

1 cup boiling water Madeira) 

1}2 tbsp. lemon juice 
Make the same as lemon jelly. 

Egg Preparations 
Egg Gruel 

1 egg, 1 tsp. sugar, 1 cup hot milk (not scalded), nutmeg or 
lemon juice to flavor. While the milk heats, beat the yolk of the 
egg till thick and light colored, the white till stiff. Stir into the 
yolk the other ingredients in the following order; sugar, milk, 
beaten white, flavoring. Serve hot in a glass placed on a plate 
covered with a doily. 

Eggnog 

1 egg 1 to 2 tbsp. wine or 

2 tbsp. sugar 1 tsp. brandy 
V/i tbsp. lemon juice or Nutmeg 

Beat the yolk till thoroughly foamy ; stir in the other ingredi- 
ents. Nutmeg may be omitted. 

95 



Shirred Egg 

Break an egg into a buttered cup or egg shirer ; let this stand 
in a pan of hot water in the oven till the white jellies. Season 
and serve in the same dish placed on a plate. 

Milk Preparations 
Albuminized Milk 

Put the white of an egg and half a cupful of milk into a glass 
jar, cover tightly, and shake until well mixed. 

Peptonized Milk 

1 tube Fairchild's peptonizing ^ cup cold water 

powder 1 pint fresh cold milk 

Shake the water and powder together in a quart glass jar or 
bottle, add the milk, and shake again. Set the jar into warm 
water, and keep it as near 130 F., as you can for 20 minutes. 
Then put it at once on ice. Serve with grated nutmeg, sugar, or 
mineral water, as the patient may prefer or the doctor prescribe. 

Irish Moss Lemonade 

% cup Irish Moss 2 cups cold water 

Lemon juice and sugar to suit the patient's taste. 

Soak the moss in cold water till soft. Pick out dark bits and 
foreign matter. Cook it in the 2 cups of water in a double boiler 
for 20 minutes. Strain, flavor and sweeten. Use hot or cold for 
patients with throat or bronchial inflammation. 

Lemon Whey 

1 pint hot milk (not scalded) juice of 2 lemons or 6 tbsp. Add 
the lemon juice to the milk ; when the latter has curdled, strain 
it through cloth. Serve the whey hot or cold in a glass. 

Liquid Diet for One Day 

}i cup hot milk 
}i cup chicken broth 
Eggnog 

^ cup hot milk 
A glass milk punch or Kumiss 
% cup chicken broth 
8 p.m. }i cup cocoa 



8 


a.m. 


10 


a.m. 


12 


a.m. 


2 


p.m. 


4 


p.m. 


6 


p.m. 



SANDWICHES 

Bread for sandwiches should be one day old. Use white, gra- 
ham, or brown bread. Cut the bread as thin as possible and have 
the butter soft enough not to tear the bread. Remove the crusts 
and cut in squares or triangles. 

Anchovy Sandwiches 

Rub yolks of hard-boiled eggs to a paste, moisten with oil or 
butter and anchovy essence to taste. 

Chicken Sandwiches 

Cold boiled chicken may be sliced thin and sprinkled with 
pepper and salt, or cold chicken may be chopped and mixed with 
mayonnaise. 

Cheese Sandwiches 

Mix equal parts of cream cheese and chopped walnuts with 
French dressing. 

Cucumber Sandwiches 

Chop medium sized cucumbers rather fine, add a little salt, 
drain and mix with mayonnaise. 

Egg Sandwiches 

Chop hard-boiled eggs with a silver knife, mix with French 
dressing or mayonnaise. 

Ham Sandwiches 

Chop the ham very fine and season with mustard, make into a 
paste with melted butter. 

Lettuce Sandwiches 
Shred lettuce and mix with mayonnaise. 

Nut Sandwiches 

Peanuts or walnuts chopped very fine are an addition to almost 
any sandwiches. The chopped nuts may be mixed with French 
dressing or mayonnaise. 

Olive Sandwiches 

Pimola olives are most used ; chop quite fine and mix with 
mayonnaise. 

97 



Sardine Sandwiches 

Mash sardines with salt, cayenne and lemon juice. 

Tongue Sandwiches 
Use thin slices of boiled tongue and spread with mustard. 

Club Sandwiches 

On a slice of bread put a lettuce leaf, next slices of thin crisp 
bacon, next slices of chicken and mayonnaise, cover with slice of 
bread, and toast lightly on either side. 

Watercress Sandwiches 

Cut thin slices of bread and butter and spread them evenly 
with picked watercress and some chopped chives. Then spread 
thickly with the hard-boiled yolks of eggs which have been rubbed 
through a sieve. Place another piece of bread on the top and 
press together. 

May Day Sandwiches 

Chop together fine 5 lettuce leaves, Yz pint stuffed olives, Yz 
cup walnuts, add 4 tablespoons salad dressing and spread between 
thin slices of bread, either brown or white. 



CONFECTIONERY 

Peanut Butter Fudge 

2 cups powdered sugar 3 tbsp. peanut butter 

Yi. cup milk 
Boil 5 or 6 minutes. 

Molasses Candy 

1 cup molasses 1 tbsp. vinegar 

2 cups sugar Vanilla and small piece butter 
Boil 10 minutes, then cool enough to pull. 

Penoche 

2 cups brown sugar 1 cup granulated sugar 

Moisten the sugar with cream or rich milk and put on the stove 
to boil. Let it boil until it hardens when dropped into cold water. 
Then add a cup of chopped nuts, a lump of butter and a few 
drops of vanilla. Stir until creamy enough to pour mto well 
buttered pans. 

Peppermint Creams 

2 cups granulated sugar 1 tsp. peppermint 

Yz cup boiling water Yz tsp. cream tartar when 



taken from fire 



Drop quickly on waxed paper. 



Maple Nut Fudge 

% cups maple sugar 1 cup sweet eream 

1 cup white sugar 1 cup chopped nuts 

Boil sugar and cream until it forms a very soft ball in cold 

water. Add nuts and beat until creamy. Pour into buttered tms. 

Before quite cold cut in squares. 

Chocolate Cream Candy 
2 cups sugar 2 squares chocolate 

Yz cup milk 1 tsp. vanilla 

1 tbsp. butter 
Put the butter into a granite saucepan and when it is melted 
add the sugar and milk. Heat this to a boiling point, then add the 
chocolate and stir constantly until chocolate is melted. Boil 1^ 
minutes then remove from fire. Add the vanilla and stir until 
creamy, and until the mixture begins to sugar a little around the 
edge of the saucepan. 

99 



Walnut Creams 

White of an egg Any desired flavoring 

2 tbsp. cold water 

Add the water to the beaten white of the egg. Work in con- 
fectionery sugar until mixture can be molded with hands. Make 
into small balls and press a walnut on each side. This cream can 
also be used for chocolate creams, stuffed dates, etc. 

Plain Fudge 

3 cups sugar 1 tbsp. butter 
2 squares chocolate Vanilla 

y2 cup milk 

Boil until it is stringy. Take off, beat until it becomes grainy. 
Pour into a well-buttered pan. Just before cold cut into squares. 

Divinity Fudge 

2 cups white sugar 1 cup walnut meats 

% cup Karo corn syrup White of one egg beaten stiff 

% cup water 

Boil the sugar, water and syrup until a thread spins from the 
spoon. Pour on the beaten white of an egg and beat until thick 
and white. Add walnuts before pouring in buttered pans. 

Pop Com Balls 

Pop corn without salting it. Shake out the hard kernels. Boil 
1 cup sugar, 1 cup of syrup, 1 teaspoon vanilla and 1 teaspoon 
soda. After it has boiled pour over the corn and make into balls. 
This also makes a good cracker] ack by putting in some peanuts 
and putting the corn in a buttered pan and pressing it down while 
warm. When cold cut in squares. 

Ice Cream Cones 

1 lb. sugar (powdered best) 1 tbsp. sweet oil 

5 lbs. sifted flour About 3 qts. water 

2 tsp. vanilla 1 egg may be added if desired 

First dissolve sugar in water, add flour slowly, stirring until 
there are no lumps, then other ingredients. Stir well. 



100 



CHEMICAL COMPOSITION OF AMERICAN FOODS AND FOOD MATERIALS 

From Bulletin No. 28, issued by United States Department of Agriculture 

The food value of any food or food material is estimated by finding out how 
much energy it yields in the form of heat when burned. Heat is measured by 
calories. One calorie is the amount of heat required to raise one pound of 
water four degrees Fahrenheit. The figures in the right-hand column thus 
show what the food value of a pound of each food or food material would be if 
every bit of it were perfectly digested and assimilated. 



Pood and Food Materials 























ID 








5d 












•a M 
<« 2 




o 








Ol ^ 




ca 




4) 


^_ 


it^ 




U 


A 


5 


(U 


m o 




•3 


?. 










o 


51) 



2 > 



It 



fe.S. 



BEEF 

Chuck 

As purchased 

Edible portion . . . 

Flank 

As purchased 

Edible portion . . . 

Porterhouse Steak 

As purchased 

Edible portion , . . 

Ribs 
As purchased. . . . 
Edible portion . . . 

Round 

As purchased 

Edible portion . , . 

Plate (corned) 
As purchased. . . . 
Edible portion . . . 



VEAL 

Cutlets (legs) 
As purchased. . . , 
Edible portion . . , 



LAMB 

Loin 

As purchased 

Edible portion . . , 



% % 



17.3 



5.5 



12.7 



20.1 



8.5 



14.5 



3.4 



14.8 



54.0 
65.0 



56.1 
59.3 



52.4 
60.0 



45.3 
57.0 



62.5 
67.8 



34.3 
40.1 



68.3 
70.7 



45.3 
53.1 



% 



15.5 
18.7 



17.7 
18.7 



19.1 
21.9 



14.4 
17.8 



19.2 
20.9 



11.7 
13.7 



20.1 
20.3 



16.0 
18.7 



% 



12.5 
15.4 



19.9 
21.1 



17.9 
20.4 



20.0 
24.6 



9.2 
10.6 



35.8 
41.9 



7.5 
7.7 



24.1 
28.3 



% 



% 



% 



% 



% 


Calo- 
ries 


.7 
.9 


820 
1005 


.8 
.9 


1185 
1255 


.8 
1.0 


1110 

1270 


.7 
.9 


1110 
1370 


1.0 
1.1 


754 
835 


4.0 
4.7 


1730 
2025 


1.0 
1.1 


690 
750 


.8 
1.0 


1315 
1540 



101 



Food and Food Materials 



« 5 

a! O 

« C 
«> o 

oi: 






.3 R 

tST3 

> Is 

fc.S 



LAMB, Cooked 

Chops, broiled 

As purchased 

Edible portion 

Leg roast 

Edible portion 



MUTTON 



Hmd leg 
As purchased. . 
Edible portion . 

Shoulder 
As purchased . . 
Edible portion . 



MUTTON, Cooked 

Leg roast 
Edible portion 



PORK 

Loin Chops 

As purchased 

Edible portion .... 

Ham, smoked 

As purchased 

Edible portion .... 

Ham, smoked, fried 
As purchased 

Salt pork, clear fat 
As purchased 



POULTRY 

Chickens 

As purchased 

Edible portion 

Fowl 

As purchased 

Edible portion 



% 



13.5 



40.1 
47.6 



67.1 



17.7 



51.9 
63.2 



7o 



18.4 

21.7 



19.7 



15.4 
18.7 



22.1 



46.8 
60.2 



50.9 



19.3 



12.2 



40.8 
50.7 



35.8 
39.8 



36.6 
7.9 



13.7 
17.5 



25.0 



13.2 
16.4 



14.5 
16.5 



22.2 
1.9 



% 



26.7 
29.9 



12.7 



14.5 
17.5 



17.1 

21.8 



22.6 



26.0 
32.0 



33.2 
38.8 



33.2 
86.2 



% 



% 



% 



% 



Calo- 
ries 



41.6 



25.9 



43.7 
74.8 



47.1 
63.7 



12.8 
21.5 



1.4 
2.5 



13.7 
19.3 



12.3 
16.3 



1.2 
1.3 



1.0 



1.2 



.9 



4.2 
4.7 



5.8 
3.9 



1470 
1665 



900 



900 
1085 



975 
1245 



1420 



1340 
1655 



1670 
1945 



1815 
3670 



.7 
1.1 



295 
505 



.7 
1.0 



775 
1045 



103 



Food and Food Materials 



t. 




u <u 
















•a tt 




c n 




oi o 




■a '1' 




4) O 
















0.'^ 


fc 







o 
















<u 


u 






H 








p 


tS 






o 


s 






n 


•s 












d 


+-> 




fl 


5 




.g 


fo 


p 


s 






5 ^.S 



5'2 



FISH 

Striped Bass 
Whole, as purchased 
Edible portion 



(fo 



55.0 



Bluefish 
As purchased, entrails re- 
moved 

Edible portion 

Cooked 



48.6 



Cod 
As purchased, dressed 
Edible portion 



29.9 



Mackerel 
As purchased, entrails re- 
moved 

Edible portion 



40.7 



Salmon 
As purchased, entrails re- 
moved 

Edible portion 

Shad 

As purchased 

Edible portion 



29.5 



50.1 



Salt Cod 

As purchased 

Edible portion 

Oysters 

Solid, as purchased. 

EGGS 

Edible portion 

BUTTER 
Butter 



24.9 



% 



35.1 
77.7 



40.3 
78.5 
68.2 



58.5 
82.5 



43.7 
73.4 



48.1 
64.6 



35.2 
70.6 



40.2 
53.5 



CHEESE 



Full Cream 

Partly Skimmed milk , 



73.7 



11.0 



34.2 
38.2 



% 


ofo 


8.4 
18.6 


1.1 

2.8 


10.0 
19.4 
25.9 


.6 
1.2 
4.5 


11.1 
16.7 


.2 
.3 


11.6 
18.7 


3.5 
7.1 


13.8 
22.0 


8.1 
12.8 


9.4 
18.8 


4.8 
9.5 


16.0 

21.5 


.4 
.3 


6.0 


1.3 


14.8 


10.5 


1.0 


85.0 


25.9 
25.4 


33.7 
29.5 



% 



% 



% 



2.4 
3.6 



% 



% 



.5 
1.2 



.7 
1.3 
1.2 



.9 



.7 
1.2 



1.4 



.7 
1.3 



18.5 
24.7 



1.1 



1.0 



3.0 



3.8 
3.3 



Calo- 
ries 



20 
465 



210 
410 
670 



215 
325 



365 
645 



600 
950 



380 
750 



315 
410 



230 



720 



3605 



1950 
1785 



103 



Food and Food Materials 



■Sis 



fclz; 






Ph.S 



MILK 



Whole .... 
Skimmed. . 
Condensed 



MEAL, FLOUR AND BREAD 

Corn Meal 

Hominy 

Hominy, cooked 

Oatmeal 

Oatmeal, cooked 

Rice 

Rice, boiled 



Wheat Flour 

Entire wheat 

High grade spring wheat 

Macaroni, cooked 

Graham bread 

Biscuit 

White bread 

Crackers 



VEGETABLES AND FRUIT 



Beets, cooked 

Cabbage 

Lettuce 

Carrots 

Onions 

Onions, cooked 

Peas, dried 

Peas, green, cooked 

Potatoes, raw, edible portion. 

Potatoes, boiled 

Tomatoes 

Apples, edible portion 

Bananas, edible portion 

Dates, dried 



Chocolate 
Cocoa 



% 



87.0 
90.5 
26.9 



3.3 
3.4 
8.8 



12.5 
11.8 
79.3 
7.3 
84.5 
12.3 
72.5 



11.4 
12.3 

78.4 
35.7 
32.9 
35.3 
6 



9.2 
8.3 
2.2 
16.1 
2.8 
8.0 
2.8 



13.8 
11.7 

3.0 
8.9 
8.7 
9.2 
10.7 



15.0 
15.0 
20.0 
10.0 



10.0 



77 
80 
70 
78 
91 
9 
73 
78 
75 
94 
84 
75 
13 

5.9 
4.6 



2.3 

1.4 

1.0 

.9 

1.4 

1.2 

24.6 

6.7 

2.2 

2.5 

.9 

.4 

1.3 

1.9 

12.9 
21.6 



4.0 

.3 

8.3 



1.9 
1.1 

1.5 
1 

2.6 
1.3 



5.0 

5.1 

54.1 



75.4 
79.0 
17.8 
67.5 
11.5 
79.0 
24.4 



71.9 

74.5 

15.8 
52.1 
55.3 
53.1 
71.9 



% 



^0 



1.0 
.9 



.9 
.1 

i!i 

.7 
.5 
.5 



.1 
.2 
.2 
.2 
.3 

1 

1.0 

3.4 
.1 
.1 
.4 
.5 
.6 

2.5 

48.7 
28.9 



7.4 

4.8 

2.5 

7.4 

8.9 

4.9 

62.0 

14.6 

18.4 

20.9 

3.9 

14.2 

22.0 

70.6 

30.3 
37.7 



17. 



ojo 



12. 



.7 

.7 

1.9 



Calo- 
ries 

325 

170 

1520 



1.0 
.3 
.5 

1.9 
.7 
.4 
.3 



1.0 

.4 

1.3 
1.5 
.5 
1.1 
1.8 



1.6 
.9 
.8 
.9 
.5 
.9 

2.9 



1.2 

2.2 
7.2 



1655 
1650 

380 
1860 

285 
1630 

535 



1675 
1650 

415 
1210 
1300 
1215 
1905 



185 
125 
75 
160 
205 
190 

1655 
540 
385 
440 
105 
290 
460 

1450 

2860 
2320 



104 



GENERAL SUGGESTIONS 

Home Furnishing 

1. Start with an idea. 

2. Buy each thing with reference to everything else. 

3. Carry color of one room into the next, where it may be 
combined with one which is to be repeated in a third. 

4. Warm colors (yellow, brown, red) could be used in north 
rooms. 

5. Care should be taken not to have too many visible figured 
things in a room. 

6. It is well to have plain paper in one room and a figured 
in the next. 

7. Striped papers give apparent height to a room. 

8. Plain papers make the best background for pictures. 

9. Whenever possible have no picture wires visible. 

10. "A mantel is the altar on which you place the gods of 
your taste." 

11. A general fault is too much furniture in a single room. 

The Home Medicine Chest 



1 pair scissors 

1 roll of adhesive plaster 

1 eye cup 

2 rolls bandages 
1 roll gauze 

1 cake soap 

1 box absorbent cotton 

1 bottle of alcohol 


1 bottle of olive oil 

1 bottle boracic acid 

1 bottle hydrogen peroxide 

1 bottle of ammonia 

1 box bicarbonate of soda 

1 tube vaseline, carbolated 

1 tube vaseline, white 

1 tube unguentine 


Label all bottles. Best to keep 


under lock and key. 


Sick Room 


Supplies 


Bandages 

Syringe 

Hot water bag and a cover 

Bed-pan 

Thermometer 


Feeding cup 
Tray 

Rubber pad 
Bed supports 


Disinfectants 



T'O per cent alcohol for sporeless germs. 

Yiooo bichloride of mercury (corrosive sublimate) 

1 tablet dissolved in 1 pint water will make %ooo solution. 

Good for skin and glass utensils. 



lYoQ carbolic acid. 

For white material or metals. 
Chlorinated lime. 

For disinfecting excreta, water closets, sinks. 

Use only perfectly fresh. 
Formaldehyde is an excellent deodorant. 
Antiseptics : Boric acid — 2 to 4 per cent solution ; peroxide 

of hydrogen ; salt solution. 

Care and Feeding of Children 

General Remarks 

The largest meal in the middle of the day. 

No eating between meals, except plain bread and butter, or a 
glass of milk given in the morning or the afternoon. 

Much water should be taken. 

Quantity should be regulated according to size, activity and 
age. 

Certain large quantities are to be prohibited, like meat, sweets 
and desserts. 

Food carefully prepared, palatable, digestible. 

When child first goes to school is very important time. Child 
is apt to be nervous and food should be of abundant quantity, 
of right quality. Breakdown more apt to be due to too small 
quantity than from overeating. 

Training of children to eat at specified time important. 

Pure candy may be given at the end of a meal, not between 
meals. 

Suggestions for School Lunches 

Materials for Packing 
A fresh box 

Waxed paper for wrapping 
Paper napkin 
Individual cup. 

To Pack Box 
Line with paper 

Wrap each kind of food in separate paper 
Whenever possible, pack so that things to be eaten first are 
On top. 



