TX 747 
.R3 
Copy 1 



DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE 

BUREAU OF FISHERIES 



Economic Circular No. 35 



Issued April 29 



SHARKS AS FOOD." 
With Thirty Recipes. 

Dr. Samuel Johnson's dictionary of the EngHsh language, pub- 
lished in 1755, defines oats as a cereal eaten by people in Scotland 
and by horses elsewhere. The tomato, formerly known as the love 
apple, was as late as the middle of the nineteenth century regarded 
with suspicion because of its relationship to poisonous herbs. Lack 
of familiarity with their merits and thoughtless prejudice have 
retarded the use of products of the sea as well as those of the land. 
With the more frequent appearance of new sea foods in our markets, 
the truth of the old saying, "There are as ^ood fish in the sea as have 
ever been caught," is acquiring a new application. This is especially 
true of a large family of fishes, representatives of which occur on all 
shores of the sea and in all chmes — the sharks, strong, active, grace- 
fully shaped fishes, varying in length from a few inches to 50 feet or 
more, which offer a wholesome, palatable, and nutritious food, com- 
paring favorably in dietary qualities with many of the highly prized 
sea foods. 

Many people, indeed, have recognized their value and have utilized 
them extensively for food. In the countries bordering on the Medi- 
terranean, and in Great Britain, Norway, and Sweden they are well 
known as valuable and nutritious foods. At Folkestone, England, 
the flesh of one of the small sharks, salted and dried, is marketed 
as "Folkestone beef." Until recently their use as food in the United 
States has been limited principally to seafaring people in scattered 
locaUties and to the fish markets of some of our larger cities, but 
Vvith. late interest aroused in new sea foods they are finding a place in 
our largest fish-distributing centers and have appeared on the menus 
of some of the leading hotels in several cities. 

As already intimated, sharks are of wide distribution, occurring in 
all seas from the Equator to polar waters, but in greatest abundance 
in the Tropics. Those, however, taken in the cooler waters of the 
temperate zones are among the^most desirable species for food, and it 
is from these that the principalsupply for the markets of this country 
is obtained. 

Like the cod, squetea^ue, bluefish, and other well-lmown fishes, 
sharks feed mainly on fishes, crabs, mollusks, and other small forms 
living in the sea, their methods of foraging and capture in many cases 
being unusual and interesting. The thresher shark uses its w^hip- 
iike tail, which is as long as its body, to splash the water as it swims 
round and round a school of fish in ever narrowing circles, crowding 

a By Lewis Radcliflo, Assistant in Charge of Statistics and Methods, United States Bureau of Fisheries. 
49034''-18 /i>/^., _ 



Mono 



'j^Taim 



the fish closer and closer together until the moment of attack. The 
grayfish, sand sharks, and some other species work in schools and do 
not hesitate to attack the fish taken in the fishermen's nets, the 
larger forms tearing the nets and liberating the catch. Others, as 
the smooth grayfish and the blue shark, are noted for their keen sense 
•bf smell. 'Swimming lazily along until it scents its prey, perhaps 
a crab hidden in a tuft of seaweed, the smooth grayfish turns and 
rapidly moving its head from side to side begins a systematic search 
over the bottom, circling closer and closer to the hidden prey, which 
it seizes with a rush and quickly swallows. The basking shark of 
temperate waters and the whale shark of the Tropics are the largest 
of our fishes and at the same time among the most helpless and inof- 
fensive. Their teeth are of httle use, food being obtained in the same 
manner as with the baleen whales, by straining the small plant and 
animal forms living in the waters of the sea through their highly 
developed gillrakers. At certain seasons, the first of these — the 
basking shark — is gregarious, the schools swimming lazily along or 
lying motionless at the surface of the water with their backs awash. 
The most serious charge that has been made against the second — 
the rare whale shark — is that it sometimes rubs itself against the 
passing small boat, upsetting it, though it makes no attempt to 
molest the occupants thus unceremoniously cast into the sea. 

The economic uses to which these forms anay be put are somewhat 
varied. At one time large quantities of the hides, cleaned, but not 
tanned, were used for polishing wood, ivory, metal, and the like. 
With improvements in methods of preparation of sandpaper and 
emery, these have largely replaced animal hides. However, small 
quantities of certain classes are still in demand among cabinetmakers, 
and for other special uses, as in optical fittings. PecuHarity of mark- 
ings and character of the small, close set, variously sculptured, 
calcareous particles which cover the skin have adapted some to uses 
for sword grips, card cases, jewel boxes, and other novelties. The 
demand for sword grips is at present unusually large and diflicult to 
supply with satisfactory material. Within the last year the Bureau 
has interested American tanners to experiment in the production of 
leathers from these hides with excellent results, and there now exists 
a demand for large quantities of raw materials. In tensile strength 
leatliers tested compare favorably with those made from mammal 
hides, and the market for these products appears assured. In addi- 
tion, the livers are rich in a marketable oil, which is of value in dress- 
ing leather, soap making, paints, and for medicinal purposes. The 
yield varies from less than a pint in some of the smaller sharks to 
about 125 gallons in some of the larger sizes. 

The meat of sharks is white, slightly gelatinous, resembling halibut, 
but somewhat less firm, and compares favorably in food value with 
other staple food fishes and meats. Russel J. Coles, who has eaten 
the flesh of many of our sharks, states that the flesh in freshly killed 
examples of some species has a peculiar odor which can readily be 
removed by salting. After several hours the meat should be freshened, 
then parboiled and cooked as any other fish. The flesh of the young 
sharks and such small forms as the gi'ayfishes is particularly good 
fresh, but it is as a preserved product that the meat of sharks es- 
pecially conmiends itself. vSalted and smoked or Idppered it is excel- 
lent. It may also be salted and di'ied, flaked or shredded. In some 

P. of ^* 
MAY -18 1918 



parts of the meat the layers of connective tissue are quite close 
together. These parts may conveniently be run tlirough a meat 
chopper and the meat used for fish balls, chowders, and the like. 
V Persons in position to smoke the fish as needed will find the mild- 
cured, hot-smoked product particularly appetizing. Of its qualities, 
one who has tested it says, "One may compare it with halibut, had- 
dock, cod, and salmon only to record its essential superiority in every 
particular of tenderness and flavor. In the matter of light smoking, 
1 regard the shark as enormously superior to any fish for this process, 
for in the samples from which I partook, there was a complete absence 
of the strong fish flavor which is so hard to eliminate from light- 
smoked halibut and salmon." 

The housekeeper is not restricted to the use of the accompanying 
recipes, but may employ any method of cooking applicable to large 
fishes, whether i'resh, salt, or smoked. Bacon and salt-pork fats may 
be substituted for butter in many cases. By some methods of preser- 
vation the fish -will bo found to be so salt as to require considerable 
soaking; by others so fresh as to require little or none. To freshen 
salt fish, place them, flesh side down in a large volume of water and 
leave them there for 12 to 48 hours, according to taste and the size 
and thicloicss of the fish. Change the water several times. The 
extraction of the salt may be hastened if the fish be raised above the 
bottom of tile containei:^by placing it on a wire tray or several clean 
sticks of wood and, if the fish be tliick, by making deep incisions in 
the flesh. Less freshening is required if the fish be boiled or otherwise 
cooked in liquid than if used for broUing or frying. Recipes given 
for canned shark may be used for fresh shark, provided the latter 
is first boiled until thoroughly done. The cook should use her own 
discretion with the particular material at hand. 

RECIPES. 
fresh shark. 

1. Shark Chowder. 



2 pounds shark. 

h jwiind salt pork. 

2 small onions. 

1 quart sliced raw potatoes. 



1 quart milk. 

Salt and jjepper to taste. 

Few sprigs of parsley. 



Wash the shark thoroughly, cover with cold water, and boil until tender. Flake the 
fish or cut it into small pieces. Save the water. Cut the salt pork into small pieces 
and fry until crisp, then remove the pork scraps. In the fat fry the sliced onions, then 
add the potatoes and a little parsley and cook until done, adding a little water if 
necessary. When potatoes are soft, add the hot milk and flaked fish, salt and pepper, 
and heat through. Split Boston crackera or pieces of pilot bread may be placed in the 
chowder, or served with it. 



2. Shark Marseillaise. 



2 pounds shark. 

2 large onions. 

2 tablespoonfuls olive oil. 

4 tomatoes. 



1 clove of garlic. 

1 pinch saffron. 

Salt and pepper to taste. 

-1- glass water or fish stock. 



Chop the onions fine and fry them in the olive oil. Add the tomatoes, cut into small 
pieces, garlic, saffron, salt and pepper, and the water or fish stock. Placo the fish 
cut aa usual, in the mixture and allow to boil fast for 15 to 20 minutes. Keep the kettle 
covered tightly. Remove the fish and place on some slices of French bread, which 
have been browned in the oven. Boil the liquid down a few minutes so it will not be 
watery, rectify the seasoning, and pour over the fish. 



3. Boiled Shark. 



3 pounds shark. 

1 onion. 

1 carrot. 

i glass vinegar. 



1 tablespoonful salt. 
Few <zTains of pepper. 
Little thyme. 
1 bay leaf. 
1 clove. 



Cut the shark into 5 pieces and place in a kettle with the onion and carrot, both 
sliced. Add the vinegar and seasoning. Cover with water, bring to a boil, and keep 
boiling slowly for 20 minutes. Drain and place on a platter. Serve with either a 
cream sauce or any other sauce, such as caper, hoUandaise, anchovies, etc. 

4. Broilkd Shark Ma!tre d'Hotel. 

2 pounds shark. Little nutmeg. 

3 ounces butter. Juice 1 lemon. 
1 tablespoonful parsley. 

Cut the shark into steaks, dip into sweet butter or cooking oil, and cook on broiling 
irons. "When well done remove and place on hot platter. 

maJtre d'hotel sauce. 

Melt the butter, add the chopped parsley, nutmeg, and lemon juice. Pour over the 
fish just before serving. 



5. Fried Shark, New England Style. 



2 pounds shark. 

^ cupful fine corn meal. 

i pound fat salt pork. 



1 lemon. 

Few sprigs parsley. 

Salt and pepper to taste. 



Cut the fish as usual, season well with salt and pepper, and roll in the corn meal. 
Fry the fat salt pork in a shallow frying pan, and when crisp remove and keep hot. 
Place the fish in the pan and fry a nice brown on both sides. Serve on hot platter, 
with the salt pork over it, and garnish with parsley and slices of lemon. 



6. Fried Fillets op Shark Orly. 

1 lemon. 

Few sprigs parsley. 



2 pounds shark. 
h cupful flour. 

Cut the fish into fillets, season well, and roll in flour; dip in beaten eggs and roll 
in bread crumbs. Fry in deep fat to a nice brown color. Drain and serve garnished 
with parsley and slices of lemon; a sauce boat of tomato sauce on the side. 



Shark Saute Meuniere. 

2 lemons. 

Few sprigs parsley. 



2 pounds shark. 
2 ounces butter. 
^ cupful flour. 

Cut the fish into slices one-half inch thick, season well with salt and pepper roll in 
flour, and fry in butter. Remove from the pan and place on a hot platter, squeeze 
the juice of 1 lemon over it add a little more butter in the pan, and when it stops 
foaming and is a light brown color, pour over the fish. Sprinkle with chopped parsl , y 
and serve very hot with quartered lemon. 



smoked shark. 

8. Shark Chowder.^ 



2 pounds smoked shark. 
4 cupfuls raw potatoes. 
1 onion, 
i teaspoonful pepper. 



ll-inch cube fat salt pork. 
2 tablespoonfuls butter. 
4 cupfuls scalded milk. 
8 soda crackers. 



Cut the firh into one-half inch pieces and soak 1 hour in warm water. Change 
water and bcil one-half hour. Cut pork into small pieces and fry out in the pan m 
which the chowder is to be made; add onion and cook 5 minutes. Then add the 

a Eecipe furnished by Domestic Science Department of Salem College, Winston-Salem, N. C. 



potatoes, cut in dice, and 2 cupfuls boiling water and cook 5 minutea. Put in fish, 
cover and simmer 20 minutes, or until potatoes and fish are tender. Add milk, 
seasoning, and butter, and bring to boiling point. Place crackers in ser%dng dish and 
pour chowder over them. 

9. Shark Cutlets.^ 



3 tablespoonfuls shortehlng. 

J cupful flour. 

I tablespoonful salt. 

\ tablespoonful paprika. 



1| cupfuls flaked smoked shark. 
i tablespoonful chopped onion. 
2 tablespoonfuls finely chopped red pep- 
pers. 
1 cupful milk. 

Wash the smoked shark and boil for 20 minutes. Flake it. Cook onion and red 
pepper with butter for 5 minutes, stimng constantly. Add Soiw. mixed with salt 
and paprika, and stir until blended. Add the milk gradually, bring to the boiling 
point, add the flaked shark, and spread on platter to cool. Shape, dip in egg and 
crumbs, and fry in deep fat, and drain on brown paper. Arrange on serving dish, 
garnish with sprigs of parsley, and serve with Epicurean sauce. 

EPICUREAN SAUCE. 



Few grains cayenne. 
1 cupful whipped cream. 
3 tablespoonfuls mayonnaise. 



1 tablespoonful Tarragon vinegar. 

2 tablespoonfuls grated horseradish. 

1 teaspoon ful mustard. 

2 teaspoonful salt. 

Mix together the vinegar, horseradish, mustard, salt, and cayenne; add the whipped 
cream and mayonnaise dressing. Beat thoroughly. 

10. Shark Balls. « 

1 cupful smoked shark. j 1 egg. 

2 cupfuls potato or corn-meal mush. 1 tablespoonful butter. 

1 teaspoonful jaepper. | 

Wash the fish and shred fine in cold water. Wash, pare, and cut potatoes into 
pieces of uniform size. Cook fish and potatoes in boiling water to cover 20 minutes, 
or until potatoes are soft. Drain, add the butter and pepper, and mash fine with a 
fork. As soon as cool, add the egg, well beaten, and salt if necessary. Shape into 
balls by tablespoonfuls, leaving outside rough, and fry in deep fat. 

11. Shark Cakes. & 

2 cupfuls smoked shark. j 1 tablespoonful chopped onion. 
1 cupful mashed potatoes. I Salt and pejiper to taste. 

Wash the smoked shark and boil for 15 minutes. Shred and mix with the i^otatoes 
and onion. Make into small cakes, dredge with flour, and fry in drippings. 



12. Sn.-VRK A LA Newberg. 



] pound smoked shark. 
\ cupful J:iutter. 
Dash of pepper. 
Few gratings of nutmep 



2 tablespoonfuls lemon juice. 
§ cupful thin cream. 
2 yolks of eggs. 



Soak fish in warm water one-half hour, then slowly bring to boil and boil 1 minute. 
Drain and add to melted butter and cook 3 minutes. Add seasonings, lemon juice 
with cream and yolks stirred into it, and cook until thickened, stirring constantly. 

13. Creole Shark. « 



1 green pepper. 

1 cupful cold cooked potato. 

^ cupful buttered crumbs. 



1 cupful flaked smoked shark. 
Ih cupfuls tomato sauce.- 
1^ pimentos. 

Soak the smoked shark, after flaking, for 1 hour in warm water. Then place in a 
baking dish in layers with potato cut in small cubes and sprinkle each layer with 
nyuced green pepper. Place pimentos, cut in small strips on top, pour tomato sauce 
(see p. 6) over it, and cover with buttered crumbs. Bake until well browned. 



o Recipe fijfnished by Domestic .Science Department of f-'a!em College, Wiiisl 
6 Recipe furnished by Mrs. Kate B. Vaughn. 



oii-.'^aleir.N. C, 



TOMATO SAUCE. 

1^ cupfuls tomato. I 1^ tablespoonfuls corn starch, 

1 slic'! onion. \ teaspoonfu.l salt. 

3 tablespoonfuls butter or meat drippings. | J- teaspoonful pepper. 

Cook onion with tomato 15 minutes, strain and add to butter and cornstarch, cooked 
together; add seasoning, and let boil 3 minutes. 

14. Shark Puff/'- 

^ cupful smoked shark. 1 tablespoonful butter. 

1 cupful (heaping) potato. 2 eggs. 

4 tablespoonfuls milk. 

Wash and shred fish and cook with peeled and quartered potato in boiling water 
until tender. Beat with a fork until thoroughly mixed, add eggs, whipped light, 
and beat into tho mixture. Spread evenly, about one-half inch thick, on frying pan 
greased with salt pork, and cook slowly until a brown crust has been formed. Fold 
over like omelet and serve. 

15. Baked Smoked Suark.« 



1-^ tablespoonfuls butter. 
I teaspoonful pepper. 



2 pounds smoked shark. 

2 cupfuls milk. 

1 tablespoonful flour. 

Wash the smoked shark and soak overnight in cold water. Place in a sliallow 
baking pan, and pour the milk over it. Bake 20 minutes in a moderate oven, stirring 
into tiie milk, at the end of 15 minutes, the flour, butter, and pepper, UTien thor- 
oughly done, place fish on platter and pour sauce around it. 



16. Shark Salad. 



2 cupfuls smoked shark. 
2 cupfuls potatoes. 
1 tablespoonful onion, 
1 cupful celery. 



2 tablesiioonfuls green peppers. 
2 cupfuls mayonnaise. 
Salt and pepper to taste. 



Wash the smoked shark and boil until tender. Shred when cold, and add to the 
potatoes, which have been diced. Then put in the minced onion, celery, and green 
pepperei. Mix thoroughly and add the mayonnaise, stirring slightly. 

The addition of 3 hard-boiled eggs gives a more nutritious and palatable salad. 



SALT SHARK. 

17, Salt Shark Chowder. 



J pint picked salt shark, 
1 pint raw potatoes. 
1 large white onion. 



Salt and cayenne pepper to taste. 

1 pint milk. 

Few tablespoonfuls rich cream. 



Pare and thinly slice the potatoes and onion. Place the fish, onion, potatoes, and 

1 cracker, crushed fine, in a hot. buttered baking dish. Add the seasoning, cover 
with hot water, and boil gently for 20 minutes. Add the hot milk and cream and let 
boil up. Serve with crackers or toasted bread. 

18. Salt Shark Hash. 

2 cupfuls salt shark. I 1 egg. _ 

2 cupfuls boiled potatoes, | Few slices bacon or pork. 

Freshen the fish by soaking overnight and chop fine, or run it through a meat 
grinder; add tho potatoes, which have been minced; mix and moisten with milk 
in which an egg has been thoroughly whipped. Fry some bacon or pork and use the 
fat for greasing the frying pan in which the hash is fried brown. Now and then 
add sufficient fat to keep hash from burning, but not enough to make it greasy. It 
may be tiu-ned like an omelet. Serve hot on platter with strips of bacon or pork. 

Recipe furnisned by Domestic Science Department of Salem College, Winston-Salem, N. C. 



19. Creamed Salt Shark in Pepper Cases. 



Dash cayenne pepper. 
1 pint milk. 



^ pound salt shark. 

2 tablespoonfuls butter. 

2 tablespoonfuls flour. 

Soak the salt shark overnight, and shred into fine pieces. Blend the butter, flour, 
and pepper; add the hot milk, little at a time; cook 2 minutes. Then add the fish 
and cook until creamy. Select large green peppers of uniform size, cut lengthwise, 
and remove seeds and veins; pour boiling water over them and scald a few minutes to 
bring out and preserve their gi-een color. Fill the pepper shells with the creamed 
shark and cover with the yolk of a hard-boiled egg, rubbed through a sieve or vegetable 
press. Bake until pepper cases are tender. 



20. Salt Shark en Casserole. 



1 cupful shark. 

1 tablespoonful butter. 



1 tablespoonful flour. 
1 cupful milk. 



Pick into small pieces 1 cupful shark, which has been soaked overnight. Melt the 
butter, add the flour, and pour in gradually the milk, which has been made hot. 
Cook until creamy consistency and add the fish. Spread crumbed breacl on bottom of 
casserole, dot with little pieces of butter, add a dash of pepper and possibly a little 
salt, and pour in the creamed fish while hot. Cover ^\ith broad crumbs, dot with 
butter, and bake in a hot oven until brown. 

21. Baked Salt Shark. 



1 cupful picked or shredded shark. 

2 cupfuls cold mashed potatoes. 

1 pint milk. 

2 eggs. 



Lump of butter size of an egg. 
Seasoning of pepper. 
Pinch of salt, if necessary. 



Stew the picked shark gently \nitil tender. Mix the potatoes with the milk, eggs, 
butter, and seasoning, and stir the shark in lightly. Turn into a buttered pudding 
dish and bake about half an hour. 



22. Salt Shark au Gratin. 



1 pound shark. 

1 tablespoonful butter. 

1 tablespoonful fiom'. 



2 tablespoonfids grated cheese. 
1 cupful boiling water. 



Boil the fish gently for 2 hours, putting it over the fire in tepid water; let cool and 
mince fine. Make a drawn-butter sauce by cooking together a tablespoonful each of 
butter and flour and stirring them into a cupful of boiling water luitil the sauce is 
thick and smooth. Stir the fish into this, add pepper to taste, and mix with the 
cheese. Turn into a baking dish, strew with crumbs, bits of butter, and a little more 
grated cheese, and brown in the oven. 



23. Baked Salt Shark with Cheese. 



2 cupfuls flaked shark. 
1 cupful mashed potatoes. 

1 cupful milk. 

2 eggs. 



1 tablespoonful melted butter. 

Salt and pepper to taste 

3 tablespoonfuls Parmesan cheese. 



Boil for 20 minutes enough shark to make 2 cupfuls of flaked fish; drain and set 
away until cold. Add the potatoes to the fish and mix well with the milk and the 
egg yolks, well whipped. Add the melted butter, salt and pepper to taste, and the 
cheese, which has been grated. Turn into a greased baking dish, sprinkle with 
grated cheese over the top, and bake to a golden brown. Serve imm.ediately. 



CANNED SHARK. 

24. Shark Hash. 



1 pound can of shai'k. 
1 pint boiled potatoes. 



1 teaspoonful butter. 
Salt and pepper to taste. 



Flake the fish and mix with the potatoes, cut in small pieces. Add the butter, 
salt and pepper, and turn into a buttered frying pan. Stir imtil thoroughly heated 
throughout, then leave long enough to browTi on the bottom. Turn out on a platter, 
brown side up. 



'w'>w'i^vjn[^oo 



25. SiiAKK Cakes 



014 484 483 A 

1 egg. 

Salt pork and parsley for gaxuisli. 



1 pound can of shark. 
1 pint mashed potatoes. 
Salt and pepper to taste. 

Drain and flake 1 can of shark. Season the ma«hed potatoes with butter, pepper, 
salt, and a little cream; work the fish into this, add a beaten egg, a dusting of flour, 
and shape the mixture into cakes of the usual size. Fry the cakes in hot fat and servo 
garnished with a thin slice of fried salt pork on top of each and sprays of parsley. 



20. Shark Loaf. 

1 pound can of shark. I ^ cupful milk. 

1 cupful cracker crumbs. Paprika and salt. 

1 egg. 1 

Flake the shark, mix with the cracker crumbs and egg, well beaten, and season to 
taste. Bake for 15 minutes in a buttered dish. 

27. ESCALLOPED SUARK. 



1 pound can of shark. 

3 cupfuls stale bread crumbs or 3 cupfuls 

boiled rice. 
1 tablespoonful finely chopped onion. 



2 tablespoonfuls butter or other cooking 

fat. 
1 tablespoonful finely chopped sour pickle. 
Few grains cayenne pepper. 



In the bottom of a baking dish i^lace a layer of bread crumbs or rice, spread over it 
a small amoimt of chopped pickle, onion, and fat. Add a layer of fish and another 
layer of crumbs or rice, and so on. Reserve about half of the fat for a final layer of 
bread crumbs on top of the dish. Bake until the crumbs are brown. 



28. Shark Tuebot. 



1 pomid can of shark. 
1 cupful milk or cream, 
i cupful bread crumbs. 



2 table "poonfuls butter. 

1 tablespoonful minced onion. 

Salt and pepper to taste. 



Drain and flake the shark. Butter a baking dish and spread a layer of the fish on 
the bottom. On top of this place a layer of bread crumbs, dust with a little popper 
and salt, dot with small lumps of butter, and sprinkle with onion, finely minced. 
Proceed in this way until the dish is full, being siu'o that the top layer is of crumbs. 
Pour the milk or cream over top and dot with lumps of butter. Bake for 30 minutes 
in a rising oven — an oven in which the intensity of the heat is gradually increased. 

29. Shark Salad. 



1 tablespoonful tomato catsup. 
1 teaspoonful prepared mustard. 
Dash of red pepper. 



I pound can of shark. 

1 cupful finely chopped celery. 

2 teaspoonfuls lemon juice. 

3 largo tablespoonfuls mayonnaise. 

Mix together the mayonnaise, catsup, mustard, lemon juice, and red pepper. Add 
liglitly to the fish and celery and serve on lettuce. A boiled dressing might be used 
in place of the mayonnaise. One cupful diced cucumbers may be substituted for 
the celery. 

30. Shark Salad. 



i pound can of shark. 
1 cupful celery. 
1 red pepper. 
1 cucumber, sliced. 



1 head chicory. 
1 lemon. 
1 onion. 
Mayonnaise. 



Drain and flako the shark and add to the other ingredients. Mix all lightly with 
the mayonnaise and garnish with olives. 



WASHINGTON : GOVERNMENT TKIXTING OFFICK : 1918 



■V 



|_XDIM-irvi v/r 



014 484 483 A 



