I CD 
(0 



-CD 



no 



^oo 



UNW. 



N, Y. STATE 



I IN iv. 



( IM/SRY 



U8TMAR 2 



6 



'Volume XVII 



August, 1918 Number 27 



CIRCULAR NO. 21 
THE NEW YORK STATE COLLEGE OF FORESTRY 

AT 

SYRACUSE UNIVERSITY 

HUGH P. BAKER, Dean 

The Relation of Shellfish to Fish in 
Oneida Lake, New York 



BY 
FRANK COLLINS BAKER 

Investigator in Forest Zoology, 1915-1917 
Prepared under the direction of Chas. C. Adams 




Published Quarterly by the University 
Syracuse, New York 

Entered at the Postoffice at Syracuse as second-class mail matter 



TRUSTEES 

OF 
THE NEW YORK STATE COLLEGE OF FORESTRY 

AT 

SYRACUSE UNIVERSITY 



Ex OFFICIO 

Dr. JAMES K. DAY, Chancellor Syracuse University. 

Dr. JOHN HUSTON FIXLEY, Commissioner of Edu- 
cation Albany, X. Y. 

Hon. GEORGE D. PRATT, Conservation Commis- 
sioner Xew York City. 

Hon. EDWARD SCHOENECK, Lieutenant-Governor. . Syracuse, N. Y. 

APPOINTED BY THE GOVERNOR 

Hon. CHARLES ANDREWS Syracuse, X. Y. 

Hon. ALEXANDER T. BROWN Syracuse, X. Y. 

Hon. JOHN R. CLANCY Syracuse, X. Y. 

Hon. HAROLD D. CORNWALL Lowville, X. Y. 

Hon. GEORGE W. DRISCOLL Syracuse, X. Y. 

Hon. FRANCIS HENDRICKS Syracuse, X. Y. 

Hon. HENDRICK S. HOLDEN Syracuse, X. Y. 

Hon. Louis MARSHALL Xew York City. 

Mr. EDWARD H. O'HARA .Syracuse, X. Y. 

OFFICERS OF THE BOARD 

Hon. Louis MARSHALL President. 

Hon. JOHN R. CLANCY Vice-President. 

Hon. HENDRICK S. HOLDEN.. . Treasurer. 



[2] 



FACULTY 

OF 

THE NEW YORK STATE COLLEGE OF FORESTRY 

AT 
SYRACUSE UNIVERSITY 



JAMES ROSC'OE DAY, S. T. D., I). C. L., LL.D., 
Chancellor of the University. 

HUGH POTTER BAKER, M. F., 1904 (Yale) ; D. Oec., 1910 (Munich), 
Dean of the College; Professor of Silviculture. 

FRANK F. MOON, B. A., 1901 (Amherst) ; M. F., 1909 (Yale), 
Professor of Forest Engineering; Acting Dean. 

MAULSBY WILLETT BLACKMAN, A. B., 1901; A. M., 1902 (Uni- 
versity of Kansas); Ph. D., 1905 (Harvard), 
Professor of Forest Entomology. 

EDWARD F. MCCARTHY, B. S., 1911 (University of Michigan), 
Professor of Forestry at The New York State Ranger School. 

"NELSON COURTLANDT BROWN, B. A., 1906 (Yale); M. F., 1908 

(Yale), 
Professor of Forest Utilization. 

J. FRED BAKER, B. S., 1902 (Michigan Agricultural College) ; M. F., 

1905 (Yale), 
Director of Forest Investigations. 

LEIGH H. PENNINGTON, A. B., 1907; Ph. D., 1909 (University of 

Michigan) , 
Professor of Forest Patliology. 

SEWARD D. SMITH, A. B., 1907; M. S. F., 1909 (University of 

Michigan) , 
Director of The New York State Ranger School. 

JOHN WALLACE STEPHEN, B. A., 1907; M. S. F., 1909 (University 

of Michigan); M. Pd., 1915 (Michigan Normal College), 

Professor of Silviculture. 

* On leave of absence. 

[3] 



4- College of Forestry 

CHARLES CHRISTOPHER ADAMS, B. S., 1895 (Illinois Wesleyan) ; 

M. S., 1808 (Harvard); Ph. D., 1908 (Chicago), 

Professor of Forest Zoology. 

*SHIRLEY W. ALLEN, B. S., 1909 (Iowa State College), 
Professor of Forest Extension. 

HARRY P. BROWN", A. B., 1909; A. M., 1910; Ph. D., 1914 (Cornell 

University) , 
Professor of Dendrologi/. 

SOLOMON F. AGREE, B. S., 1896; M. S., 1897 (University of Texas) ; 

Ph. D., 1902 (Chicago), 
Professor of Forest Chemistry. 

"REUBEN PARKER PRICHARD, B. S., 1907 (Dartmouth) ; M. F., 1909 

(Yale), 
Assistant Professor of Dendrology. 

LAURIE D. COX, A. B., 1903 (Arcadia College) ; S. B. in Landscape 

Architecture, 1909 (Harvard), 
Assistant Professor of Landscape Engineering. 

HOWARD ELAINE WAHA, B. S., 1909 (Pennsylvania State College), 
Assistant Professor of Forest Utilization. 

HARRY HARRINGTON TRYON, A. B., 1912; M. F., 1913 (Harvard), 
Assistant Professor of Forest Utilization. 

ERNEST G. DUDLEY, A. B., 1908 (Leland Stanford Jr. University) ; 

1908-1909 (Yale Forest School), 
Assistant Professor of Forest Extension. 

WILLIAM A. GRUSE, A. B., 1913 (Johns Hopkins); A. M., 1915; 

Ph. D., 1916 (University of Wisconsin), 

Assistant Professor of Dendrological Chemistry. 

(Fuller Fund.) 

*ALFRED HUBERT WILLIAM POVAH, A. B., 1912; Ph. D., 1916 

(University of Michigan), 
Assistant Professor of Forest Mycology. 

HIRAM LEROY HENDERSON, B. S., 1915 (University of Michigan), 
Assistant Professor of Forest Utilization. 

CARL JOHN DRAKE, B. S., B. Ped., 1912 (Baldwin- Wallace) ; A. M., 

1914 (Ohio State University), 
Assistant Professor of Forest Entomology. 

* On leave of absence. 



The Relation of Shellfish to Fish in Oneicla Luke 5 

*ALAN F. ARNOLD (Harvard), 
Instructor in Landscape Engineering. 

"CARL CHESWELL FORSAITH, A. B., 1913 (Dartmouth) ; A. M.. 
1914; Ph. D., 1917 (Harvard), 
Instructor in Forest Technology. 

HAROLD CAHILL BELYEA, A. B., 1908 (Mount Allison University) ; 

M. F., 1916 (Yale), 
Instructor in Forest Engineering. 

MERLE R. MEACHAM, B. S., 1913 (Hiram College) ; B. S. in Ch. E., 
1914; Ch. E., 1916 (Purdue University); Ph. D. (New York 

State College of Forestry), 

Research Assistant in Dendrological Chemistry. 
(Fuller Fund.) 

ALVIN G. SMITH, B. S. (New York State College of Forestry), 
Field Assistant in Forest Investigations. 

WILFORD E. SANDERSON, B. S., 1917 (New York State College of 

Forestry) , 
Field Assistant in Forest Investigations. 

DON. M. BENEDICT, B. S., 1917 (University of Michigan), 
Laboratory Assistant in Botany. 

C. F. CURTIS RILEY, A. B., 1901 (Doane College) ; B. S., 1905 (Uni- 
versity of Michigan) ; A. M., 1911 (Doane College) ; M. S., 

1913 (University of Illinois), 
Special Lecturer in Animal Behavior. 

ELEANOR CHURCH, B. L. E., 1916 (Syracuse University), 
Librarian. 

LILLIAN M. LANG, 

Secretary to the Dean. 

WALTER W. CHIPMAN, B. S., 1893; A. M., 1904 (Wabash College), 
Assistant Treasurer. 

EDNA E. WHITELEY, B. L. E., 1916 (Syracuse University), 
Recorder. 



* On leave of absence. 



CONTENTS 



PAGI; 

Physical Characters of Om-ida Lake 11 

Plant and Animal Habitats 13 

Invertebrate Animal Life in Oneida Lake 14 

Oneida Lake Shellfish 1(5 

Shellfish as Food for Fish IS 

Food Fishes Feeding upon Shellfish 1!) 

Game Fishes that Feed upon Mollusk-eating Fish 20 

Oneida Lake Fish that Feed upon Shellfish 21 

Food of Young Fisli 22 

Enemies of Fresh-water Shellfish 23 

Parasites. . 23 

Predatory Enemies 23 

Shellfish as Parasites of Fish 24 

The Supply of Fish Food Available in Oneida Lake, etc 27 

Quantitative Studies in Oneida Lake 28 

Abundance of Animals in Shallow Water 29 

Animals on Different Kinds of Bottom 30 

Herbivorous and Carnivorous Animals 30 

Production of Fish 31 

Conclusions 32 

[6] 



ILLUSTRATIONS 




General view of the west end of Oneicla Lake, including Big 

Bay. 

Milton Point looking east. Frenchman Island in the distance. 
A bouldery point with only Water Willow and Bulrush for 
vegetation. 

Fig. 3. A bay-like habitat north of Long Point, looking north. The 
bottom is very sanely. 

Fig. 4. Xickerson Bay, on the north shore near the outlet at Brewer- 
ton. An example of a habitat with abundant vegetation. 

Fig. 5. A mussel fisherman on the Mississippi River with his flat- 
bottomed boat rigged with two crowfoot dredges, each 12 
feet long, and used to catch mussels for the pearl button 
industry. 

Fig. 6. The larger snails living in Oneida Lake. 

Fig. 7. Snails and finger-nail shells of special value as the food of fish. 

Fig. 8. Seining fish on Long Island, a habitat favorable for shellfish. 

Fig. 0. Collecting shellfish on the rocky shore of Frenchman Island. 

Fig. 10. Four common clams or mussels living in Oneida Lake. 

Fig. 11. Invertebrate animals on sand bottom, water four feet deep. 

Fig. 12. Invertebrate animals on clay bottom, water four feet deep. 

Fig. 13. Invertebrate animals on mud bottom, water ten feet deep. 

Fig. 14. Invertebrate animals on boulder bottom, water 20 inches deep. 

Fig. 15. A good habitat for fish and shellfish near Fitzgerald Point, 
north shore of Oneida Lake, near Brewerton. 

Fig. 16. Field laboratory at Brewerton, N. Y., at the west end of 
Oneida Lake. 



RELATION OF FISH AND OTHER WILD LIFE TO 
FORESTRY 



" Forestry means not alone the growing of a crop of trees from the 
soil for the production of wood, but it includes as well the conservation 
of water by the forest and the perpetuation of the animal life of the 
forest where it is beneficial. Therefore, in all of its plans for investi- 
gative work in forestry in the State, the College has considered not only 
the value of the non-agricultural soils for the production of forests but 
the life of the forests and the forest waters and the use of the forests 
and the forest waters in the most reasonable and effective way. In con- 
sidering the question of forestry in this broad, constructive way, the 
College is 'not original but is merely using the same vision for the future 
which has been used during the past century in such European countries 
as Germany and France, who have made their forests so important a 
part of their industrial and commercial development." 

HUGH P. BAKER, Dean, 

The New York State College of Forestry. 



" Forests are more than trees. They are rather land areas on which 
are associated various forms of plant and animal life. The forester 
must deal with all. Wild life is as essentially and legitimately an 
object of his care as are water, wood, and forage. Forest administra- 
tion should be planned with a view to realizing all possible benefits from 
the land areas handled. It should take account of their indirect value 
for recreation and health as well as their value for the production of 
salable material; and of their value for the production of meat, hides 
and furs of all kinds as well as for the production of wood and the 
protection of water supplies." 

H. S. GRAVES, Chief Forester, 

U. S. Forest Service. 



[8] 



PREFACE 



The quotations 011 the opposite page state briefly the 
relation of fish to the use of non-agricultural, forest lands 
and waters, as expressed by representative foresters, and this 
clearly outlines the policy of this College on such matters. 

In addition to timber, forest lands and waters may be 
used to produce fish, game and other plant and animal crops, 
for which the region is suited, and in addition they may be 
used for recreation. The diversified use of such forests is a 
natural development which accompanies intelligent use of 
natural resources. The proper management of waters is a 
problem similar to that of the proper management of a farm, 
of a business, or the care of forest trees, and each must be 
based upon a detailed knowledge of the subject. The public 
has not yet taken up very seriously the relation of fish pro- 
duction to food, to recreation, and to the general economic 
welfare of the community. There are conflicting interests 
here which can only be justly disposed of, in part, after 
careful, impartial investigation. It is to the solution of such 
State problems that the College is devoting its energies. 

The present publication by Frank C. Baker, Investigator 
in Forest Zoology of the College of Forestry, who since the 
completion of these studies has become Curator of the Nat- 
ural History Museum of the University of Illinois, Urbana, 
Illinois, has here summarized two detailed studies which he 
made on the fish food in Oneida Lake during the years of 
1915, 1916 and 1917. His investigations show the kind of 
food eaten by fish, particularly the molluscan or shellfish 
food, and the conditions and relative abundance of this food 
in certain parts of the lake. Plants are shown to have much 
influence upon the fish food, and the depth of water has also 
a great influence. In general, the amount of fish food 
declines with increasing depth of water, and sand bottom 

[9] 



10 Col ley? of Forexfri/ 

was found harboring the largest amount of such food. 
Shallow waters are thus the most productive of fish food. 

Upon studies of this character the College hopes to 
accumulate evidence which will be a surer guide for increas- 
ing the amount of fish in the forest lakes, ponds and streams 
of the State, as well as for a better utilization of this 
natural resource. 

CHARLES C. ADAMS, 
Professor of Forest Zoology. 

DEPARTMENT OF FOREST ZOOLOGY. 



THE RELATION OF SHELLFISH TO FISH IN 
ONEIDA LAKE, NEW YORK 

Bv FRANK COLLIXS BAKER 



PHYSICAL CHARACTERS OF ONEIDA LAKE 

The State of Xew York is justly notable for. its beautiful 
lakes, which interest alike the tourist, the summer vaca- 
tionist, and the fisherman. To the latter they are of peculiar 
interest because of their large size and the abundance and 
variety of the fish which they contain. The value of fish, 
both for sport and as a food of great economic value, has 
not been fully appreciated by either fisherman or the public 
at large. There is apparently need for much education on 
the possibilities of more, intelligent fish culture among the 
public in general. 

Much has been done for agriculture through many agencies 
organized for the solution of its problems. The study of 
the conditions governing the production of animals and 
plants living in the water, especially fresh water, has not 
been given as much attention as the subject deserves, so that 
we are still ignorant of many important facts which are 
necessary before the subject of aquatic culture can be prac- 
ticed in a manner comparable to that of agriculture. In 
aquatic studies it is of first importance that detailed infor- 
mation be available concerning all of the fish of a body of 
water, its plants, its animals, their relation to each other 
and to the water in which they live, and the physical char- 
acter of the body of water, including its surroundings. 

Realizing that our present knowledge of this subject is 
incomplete, the Department of Forest Zoology of The ISTew 
York State College of Forestry, under the direction of Dr. 
Charles C. Adams, has made detailed studies during the 
summers of 1915, 1910 and 1917 of the relation of the mol- 

[ HI 



12 College of Forestry 

luscaii food supply to the fish in the largest of the inland 
lakes wholly within the Empire State Oiieida the 
results of which are embodied in two reports by the author : 
Technical Publication Xo. 4, " The Relation of Mollusks to 
Fish in Oiieida Lake" (1916). and Xo. 9, "The Produc- 
tivity of Fish Food 011 the Bottom of Oiieida Lake, with 
Special Reference to Mollusks" (1918). 

Oiieida Lake (Fig. 1) lies near the center of Xew York 
State and is 27 miles east of Lake Ontario and 11 miles 
north of Syracuse. It is easily reached from that city by 
either steam railroad or trolley, the latter maintaining hourly 
schedules between Brewerton and South Bay during the 
summer months. The lake extends in an east and west direc- 
tion and is 21 miles in length and 5.5 miles in greatest 
width. Its maximum depth is 55 feet, which occurs near 
Cleveland 011 the north side, the lake deepening very notably 
toward the eastern end. The lake has an approximate area 
of 80 square miles or 51,200 acres, and a shore line of about 
65 miles. The areas bordering the shore are always shallow, 
usually deepening gradually and forming submerged ter- 
races. The points are usually bouldery or gravelly, while 
the bays are sandy. Mud and clay are found in the deeper 
bays and in the deeper parts of the open lake. The shallow 
area bordering the shore and extending to a depth of six or 
more feet is covered with a luxuriant growth of vegetation. 
This fact is very significant when it is remembered that it 
is this area with the vegetation that affords food and lodge- 
ment for the snails, clams, insects, crawfish and other ani- 
mals upon which the fish and other aquatic animals depend 
in an important degree for food. Below a depth of twelve 
feet little vegetation is found. Within a depth of twelve 
feet there is an area equal to thirteen square miles or 8,343 
acres, which affords feeding and breeding grounds for the 
fish of this large lake. This body of water does not appear 
to belong in the same class as the deep finger lakes, such as 
Cayuga and Seneca, which lie in old river valleys formed 
before the last glacial epoch, but seems to be a rather shallow 
body of water left in a depression in the old post-glacial out- 



Tlie Relation of Shellfish to Fish in Oneida Lake !> 

let, when the Great Lakes emptied into the Hudson river by 
way of the Mohawk river. 

PLAXT AXD AXIMAL HABITATS 

To support a large plant and animal population a body of 
water must provide varied and suitable conditions, and these 
are found in Oneida Lake in abundance. Detailed studies 
of the lake indicate that there are three primary types or 
kinds of these habitats which are more or less distinct. The 
first includes the points or headlands (Fig. 2) and some 
portions of the shore which are shallow and have been swept 
clean of the fine sand and clay, leaving the stones and small 
boulders as a stony pavement, the stones ranging in size 
from large gravel to huge boulders several feet hi diameter. 
This type of habitat affords lodgement for many mussels, 
which live in the sand between the stones, for a multitude 
of snails which live on the rocks, and for crawfish, insect 
larvse and leeches which live on, under and between the 
rocks. The vegetation of such habitats consists of Water 
Willow and Bulrush. 

The second kind of habitat is found in sheltered bays and 
in other partly protected spots where the force of the \vaves 
is somewhat arrested. (Fig. 3.) The bottom is composed 
of fine sand; the vegetation is abundant, consisting of 
Pickerel-weed, Bulrush, Swamp Loosestrife, Bur-reed, the 
Water Lilies, and a few Pond-weeds (Potamogeton). Many - 
mussels live here, but the most important life is made up o__ 
small clams, snails, insects, and small animal life which form 
such a large proportion of the food of fish. 

The third kind of habitat (Fig. 4) is found in the well 
protected bays, where there is a mass of vegetation consist- 
ing of submerged plants such as Pond-weeds, ITornworts, 
Milfoils, Water Lilies, Pickerel-weed, Cat-tails, and Bur- 
reed. The bottom is usually of fine clay or mud. Many 
fragile snails as well as insect larvse inhabit this kind of a 
habitat, which provides excellent food for fish and other 
aquatic animals. 



14 College of Forexfri/ 

The striking- feature of the plant life in many habitats is 
the presence of large quantities of the water plants known 
as filamentous alga-, which cover the bottom as well as the 
higher plants like a thick blanket, and greatly modify the 
natural character of the bottom. It seems probable that the 
great wealth of animal life in pails of this lake is largely 
due to the presence of this lowly plant, which provides a rich 
food supply for the invertebrate animals. 

Below a depth of twelve feet the bottom of the lake, as far 
as examined, is covered with soft, black mud on which little 
or no vegetation grows excepting a few species of alga>. and 
animal life is consequently reduced in both number and 
kind. 

LSTVEBTEBKATE AxiMAL LlVK IX OxKIDA LAKI-; 

The floor of this beautiful lake, in the bays and the 
shallow areas bordering the shore, is carpeted with a great 
variety of plants, many of which, like the feathery Water 
Milfoil (Myrioplii/lhun), form miniature aquatic forests in 
the bays and other sheltered places. The rocks, the plants 
and the whole bottom in many places is covered with masses 
of the delicate green water plants, the filamentous alga\ 

Among this wealth of plant growth many kinds of animals 
live in great abundance. The alga 1 are inhabited by the 
young or larvte of flies, and small-jointed worms related to 
the earthworms (Oligocha?tes), whose bodies are as green as 
the color of the alga 1 which they have eaten. Myriads of 
little crustaceans, called Scuds or Water Fleas (Amphipods 
and (Tadocera) dart about and thousands of fresh-water 
Sowbugs (Isopods) crawl over the filmy masses of alga?. 
The little spider-like mites (Ilydrachnids) actively search 
the alga 1 and weeds to prey upon the smaller animals. The 
young or nymphs of Dragon-flies (Odonata) lie in ambush 
among the alga* or bury themselves in the muddy bottom : 
the young of May-flies, with their feathery gills attached to 
the outside of their bodies, and the Caddis-fly larvae, with 
their curious houses or cases made of grains of sand, snail 



The Relation of Shellfish to Fish in Oneidu- Lttke 15 

shells, bits of sticks, plants, etc., crawl over the bottom, the 
caddis-fly larvae dragging with them the houses that protect 
their soft bodies. Water bugs. Water Boatmen, beetles, both 
adult and young, and many kinds of small snails complete 
the variety of this wealth of animal life on the bottom (see 
Figures 11-13). 

On the rocky shores the clams live between the stones, 
partly buried in the sand or gravel, and crawfishes of many 
ages and sizes hide beneath the rocks ready to retreat from 
foe or to pursue some prey ; on the stones many snails live, 
associated with the young of May-flies (Heptagenia) , the 
flat, disc-like larva or young of a beetle (Psephenus), and 
the Spiral Caddis-fly larva (Helicopsi/clie) which makes its 
case of sand grains so nearly in the form of a spiral snail 
shell as to confuse, many years ago, one of America's fore- 
most students of mollusks (see Figure 1-i). The stones on 
many points of land are coated with sponges, which look 
like great patches of green velvet through the water. 

The plants, too, afford a resting place as well as a foraging 
ground for many animals, and we find on the leaves of the 
\vater-lilies the small limpit-like snails (Ancylus), the round 
shells of the Orb Snails (Planorbis) and the Tadpole Snails 
(Physa), associated with young and full-grown beetles, 
aphids or plant lice, and the curious caterpillars of moths 
(Nymphula) which make cocoons on the surface of the lily 
leaves. If we examine the leaves of the bulrush, even in 
water six feet deep, we find them covered w r ith the little 
brown Hydras, the long tentacles of which are outstretched 
to catch unwary protozoans or other minute animals that 
may chance to drift that way. Many of the bulrush stems, 
as well as the other plants, are encrusted with the little cases 
of the moss-animals or bryozoans, appearing indeed as though 
a brow r n moss. Amid this great wealth of animal life it is 
not strange that fish find an attractive environment where 
food is 'plentiful and conditions are favorable for their 
growth and breeding. 



16 College of Forestry 

OXEIDA LAKE SHELLFISH 

The class of animals known as mollusks or shellfish (snails 
and clams) are widely distributed and in many lakes and 
rivers form a large and conspicuous part of the animal popu- 
lation. Though popularly considered of little value except 
as curiosities, this class of animals is of real economic 
importance and value. On the Mississippi river, and other 
streams of the Central West, the clams or mussels are sys- 
tematically sought for their shells, from which much of the 
pearl button material of commerce is obtained. In Illinois 
and Iowa there are many factories which manufacture pearl 
buttons and depend upon these clams for their raw material, 
and the fishing of these shells furnishes occupation for many 
men. Ixeceiitly, the supply of mussels has been threatened 
with exhaustion owing to the unbusiness-like methods of fish- 
ing and to conserve these animals the United States Bureau 
of Fisheries has established, in part, a laboratory at Fair- 
port, Iowa, for the study and artificial propagation of these 
mussels. In addition to their shells the clams have fur- 
nished many pearls of great beauty and large value. The 
clams are usually obtained by means of a crowfoot dredge 
which is a long bar of iron to which are fastened a number 
of ropes bearing several four-pronged hooks made of heavy 
wire. A fisherman's boat rigged up with two of these dredges 
is an interesting sight (Fig. 5). 

The shellfish of Oiieitla Lake, however, are at present of no 
particular value for the manufacture of pearl buttons, nor 
do they, as far as known, afford pearls of value. They do, 
however, form a part of the food of such fish as the Channel 
Cat, as well as of such mammals as the Muskrat, Mink and 
Otter. 

One of the most interesting and important discoveries 
brought out in the investigations is that the shellfish or mol- 
lusks greatly outnumber in individuals all of the other 
(macroscopic) kinds of invertebrate animals living on the 
bottom. In the quantitative computations to be described 
later, it was estimated, 011 the basis of counting the animals 



The Relation of Shellfish to Fish in Oneida Lake 17 

on many small sample areas, that the shellfish of Lower South 
Bay and vicinity numbered 4,70-i million individuals, and 
that the other associated animals numbered 3,062 million 
individuals. The shellfish, therefore, are 30 per. cent greater 
in number of individuals, showing that the shellfish are a 
very important group of aquatic animals. 

Shellfish are mostly flesh producers, eating plant tissue 
and plant debris, which is thus converted into animal tissue 
which can be used by fish as food. The large clams or mus- 
sels eat minute plants called diatoms and desmids, besides 
the small particles of partly disintegrated vegetable matter 
floating in the water, which the Danish naturalist, Dr. Peter- 
sen, has called " dust-fine detritus.'*' Some small animals, 
like the protozoans, are also included in the food. 

As just stated, snails (Fig. 6) are for the most part vege- 
tarians, feeding upon algse and the soft tissues of plants, usu- 
ally the outer part or epidermis. Snails may be frequently seen 
browsing over the rocks which are covered with long strings 
of green algae (filamentous alga?) much as cows browse over 
a pasture. The peculiar rasping file-like tongue is covered 
with many hundred minute teeth which enable the animal 
to scrape off the algse and to cut, with the aid of a horny jaw, 
the soft covering of larger plants. Only a very few snails 
are carnivorous and these include for the most part the pond 
snails or Lymncea. Some of these have been known to eat 
other snails, leeches, and small fish as well as other dead 
animals, and they may thus be regarded in a measure as 
useful scavengers. Careful records have shown that as many 
as thirteen different kinds of plants in Oneida Lake are used 
by snails as a food supply, and twenty-two kinds of snails 
were observed to use these plants for food. A very few snails 
seem to prefer dead or decaying vegetation, as the little 
limpet snails, Ancylus, but the majority of snails prefer 
living plant food. 

Of the 197 species of fresh-water shellfish listed as living 
in the State of New York, 92, or nearly one-half of the 
species inhabiting the State, have been collected from Oneida 
Lake. This number of species is believed to be greater than 



18 College of Forestry 

has been found in any similar body of fresh-water in 
America. Of the 92 species found in the lake, fully 50, or 
about one-half, are known to be eaten by fish. 

The shellfish that are of the greatest value are the small 
species that live among the vegetation or on the sandy 
bottom, and are to the average person considered of no value 
whatever. These include the little wheel-like Orb Snails 
(Planorbis") which may be seen crawling over the plants 
with their round shell carried perpendicularly on the back 
of the animal, the little spiral snails (Amnicola) and the 
broadly spiral shells, called Valva-ta. The young of the 
Tadpole Snails (PJiysci) with their shiny shells, long-pointed 
tentacles and pointed foot, and the young of the Pond Snails, 
or Lymncca, with spiral shells and broad, flat feet, are also 
favorite food for fish. The little clams or " finger nail " 
shells, Sphcerium and Pisidium, are especially sought after 
by many fish. A quarter of the food of such fish as suckers, 
Dog-fish and Carp consists of the little bivalve shellfish 
known as Sphcerium. The small snails and clams are shown 
in Figure 7. 

SHELLFISH AS FOOD FOR FISH 

The examination of the stomach contents of fish has shown 
that shellfish, snails and clams, form a large part of the food 
of many species. Compared with their other kinds of food, 
we find that shellfish bear an interesting relation to the com- 
plete diet. Thus we find that on the average, fish consume 
40 per cent of insects, 14 per cent of Crustacea (crawfish, 
fresh-water sowbugs, scuds, fresh-water fleas, etc.), 20 per 
cent of fish, 20 per cent of plants and mud, and 6 per cent of 
shellfish. While the percentage of shellfish food is small for 
the total number of fresh-water fish, it rises to large propor- 
tions (24 per cent) when only the mollusk-eating species are 
considered. In the different species the percentage of shell- 
fish food ranges from 1 to 100 per cent, or from a trace to the 
total food. 

A study of the fish of Oneida Lake, together with what 
is already known concerning the food of our freshwater fish, 



The Relation of Shellfish to Fish in Oneicla Lake 19 

indicates that of 225 species inhabiting the fresh waters of 
the states of Illinois and Xew York, 4(5, or about one-fifth, 
are eaters of shellfish to a greater or less degree. The average 
amount of molluscan footl eaten by these 4G fish is about 
one-fourth, or 24 per cent. 

Among those fish that eat a large percentage of shellfish 
food may be mentioned such common species as the Sheeps- 
head, which eats 100 per cent, the Lake Sturgeon and 
Spotted Sucker, which consume upwards of 90 per cent, the 
Common Red-horse which is credited with G2 per cent, and 
the Pumpkinseed Sunfish which eats about half mollusks. 
or 51 per cent. The Common Sucker eats 30 per cent while 
the valuable Whitefish consumes 26 per cent. The Bullhead, 
a common bottom feeder, is credited with but 20 per cent. 
Many of the fish mentioned are provided with especially 
modified mouths containing, in some species, crushing appa- 
ratus of more or less perfection, which appear as if they had 
been modified by nature to include a diet of shellfish. 

Some fish confine their diet to a few kinds of shellfish but 
the majority of mollusk-eaters devour any shellfish available 
that is of the right size. The large number of different 
species or kinds of shellfish eaten by a single species of fish 
is, however, interesting. Thus, the Pumpkinseed is known 
to eat 18 different kinds of shellfish, the Whitefish, 17 kinds, 
the Yellow Perch and the common Red-horse, each eight 
kinds, and the common Bullhead, 11 kinds. Upwards of 
50 different kinds of shellfish are now known to be eaten by 
fish and this number w y ill probably be greatly increased with 
further study (Fig. 8). 

FOOD FISHES FEEDING rroisr SHELLFISH 

There are about twenty-five food fishes inhabiting the 
waters of Xew York State that feed upon shellfish. These 
include a majority of this class of fish and indicate the value 
and importance of the shellfish as a source of food supply. 
If we divide these fish into four classes, in the order of their 
importance economically, we see at once the significance of 



20 College of Forestry 

the molluscaii diet. In the species of the first class, includ- 
ing the most valuable fish, we find that the Whitefish eats 
26 per cent, the Channel Cat, 15 per cent, and the Bluegill. 
16 per cent. In the fishes of the second class, which are the 
most numerous, the Round Whitefish consumes 26 per cent 
of shellfish, the Red-mouth Buffalo, 3 per cent, the Round 
Buffalo, 12 per cent, the Small-mouth Buffalo, 30 per cent, 
the European Carp, 15 per cent, the Long-eared Sunfish, 
16 per cent, the Pumpkinseed, 51 per cent, the Yellow 
Perch, 8 per cent, and the White Perch, 90 per cent. In 
the third class, which includes many valuable fish, we find 
the Lake Sturgeon eating 90 per cent of shellfish, the Com- 
mon Red-horse, 62 per cent, the Short-headed Red-horse. 50 
per cent, the Yellow Bullhead, 5 per cent, the Common Bull- 
head and the Black Bullhead, each 20 per cent, and the 
Sheepshead, 100 per cent. In the fish of the fourth class 
we find the Dogfish eating 25 per cent of shellfish, the 
Spotted Sucker, 90 per cent, the Common Sucker, 30 per 
cent, and the Toothed Herring and the Gizzard Shad, each 
1 per cent. The general averages for these four classes are 
19, 28, 50 and 29 per cent respectively. 

GAME FISH THAT FEED UPON MOLLUSK-EATING FISH 

Shellfish are not only of direct value as fish food, but are 
also perhaps of even greater value indirectly. They are 
food for certain other fish, which we may call " culls," 
which of themselves are of little or no recognized direct 
importance as food, but which are of great value as food 
for game and food fish. The shellfish eaten by these " culls ''* 
thus become of food value second only to the larger fish. 
In addition to these " culls " the game fish feed upon dragon- 
fly nymphs, frogs, and other amphibians whose food includes 
snails (Fig. 9). 

Six game fish are especially noteworthy as eaters of 
mollusk-eating fish. Pike and Pickerel head the list, the 
Pickerel feeding upon Carp, Suckers, Carp minnows, etc., 
which consume 15 per cent of shellfish, and the Wall-eyed 



The Relation of Shellfish to Fish in Oneida Lake 21 

Pike feeding upon Carp minnows, Gizzard Shad, etc., which 
are known to eat 7 per cent of shellfish. The Sand Pike, on 
the other hand, feeds upon Catfish, White Perch, etc., which 
consume upwards of 30 per cent of shellfish, this being the 
largest amount of indirect molluscan food. The much es- 
teemed game fish, the Large- and Small-mouthed Black Bass, 
feed on Yellow Perch, Catfish, etc., which consume about 
8 per cent of shellfish. The valuable Great Lake Trout feeds 
largely on Whitefish, which eats 26 per cent of shellfish. 
It is seen, therefore, that these six important game fish eat 
indirectly 15 per cent of shellfish food, indicating again the 
value of this class of animals in the economy of fish. 

OXEIDA LAKE FISH THAT FEED TTPOX SHELLFISH 

Of the fish inhabiting Oneida Lake eight are eaters 
directly of shellfish the ratios being from 1 to 66 per cent. 
The most voracious eater of shellfish is the Pumpkinseed 
which has the largest percentage of those of any waters yet 
examined, 66 per cent. This is 15 per cent higher than the 
general average, which is 51 per cent. Next to the Pumpkin- 
seed, the Common Sucker is the largest eater, consuming 30 
per cent of shellfish. The Common Bullhead eats 10 per 
cent while the Yellow Bullhead appropriates but 1 per cent 
and the Yellow Perch 10 per cent. As stated above, the 
basses and pikes should be credited' with a considerable 
amount of shellfish food eaten secondarily, in their case 
probably as much as 13 per cent. 

It is of interest to compare the detailed food studies made 
upon New York fish with those made by Forbes some years 
ago. Forbes examined 1,221 specimens representing 87 
species, of which 917 were adult and 307 were young. Of 
the 87 species, 39 were shellfish eaters more or less, or 
nearly one-half. Needham and the writer have made care- 
ful examinations of 298 specimens representing 19 species 
of New York fish, of which 10, or over half, are shellfish 
eaters. In New York the sunfish appear to be large con- 
sumers of shellfish, the Pumpkinseed eating 66 per cent, as 



99 



College- of Forestry 



already stated, and the Long-eared Sunfish 05 per cent, as 
recorded by Needham. The small number of Xew York 
fish examined indicates that there is yet much to be done 
before the food of the fish of this great State is well known. 
The examination of waters abounding in fish, and the 
examination of the stomach contents of fish caught in such 
waters, indicates that there is a close relationship between 
the conditions favorable for shellfish and the food of the 
fish. From a knowledge of the animals of the body of water 
one should be able to predict, within reasonable limits, what 
the food of a fish in a given habitat will be. In other words, 
we should expect a definite relation between the shellfish. 
the fish, and the environment. The accuracy of such expec- 
tation was shown by the examination of a specimen of the 
Pumpkinseed which was caught on a sanely bottom on which 
lived ten species of shellfish. When dissected, the fish was 
found to contain in its stomach the shells of eight species of 
these shellfish. Studies of this kind will ultimately give 
information which will be of great value and importance in 
the culture of food and game fish. 

FOOD OF Yorxo Fisir 

Fish in general vary their food with age. Thus the 
Common Perch passes through stages which may be called 
infancy, youth, and adult. During the first stage only the 
smallest kind of food is taken, and this consists of the 
minute animals known as Water Fleas (Entomostraca), and 
the larvae of small flies. During the second stage the water 
fleas are eaten at first but this diet soon gives place to the 
larvae of insects. In the last or adult stage, the food consists 
of shellfish, crawfish, insects and their larvae, and a few 
fishes. Many of our fish pass through these stages and it 
will easily be understood that a knowledge of the food of all 
stages is necessary before the species can be thoroughly 
understood. 



Tlie Relation of Shellfish to Fish in Oneida Lake 23 

EXEMIES OF FEESH-\VATER SIIELLFISIE 

Parasites. Since the snails and clams are an important 
element in the food of fish, it is of importance to know how 
they can be protected and increased in number. We have 
seen that the environment is favorable and that food is abun- 
dant for them in Oneida Lake. Of unfavorable agencies we 
know but little. Parasites are known to infest both clams 
and snails to a marked degree but just how much mortality 
is produced by this means is not known. Many of these 
parasites spend but a part of their lives in shellfish while 
the adult stage of the parasite is passed in birds, fish or other 
vertebrate animals. The parasites may be worms and infu- 
sorians. The Sheep Liver-fluke, which causes the death of 
many sheep, lives for a time as a parasite in the respiratory 
cavity of a small pond snail (Lymncea^). These parasites 
are mostly confined to the liver, respiratory cavity, or genital 
organs of the shellfish. It is probable that upwards of 20 
per cent of mollusks are affected by these parasites. 

Another agency affecting more or less seriously the life of 
shellfish is the boring algae which perforate the shell, destroy- 
ing the protective horny -outer covering or epidermis and 
permitting the carbon dioxide in the water to dissolve the 
substance of the shell (carbonate of lime). The effect of 
such action by algse is usually indicated by a roughened or 
worn condition of the shell. It is more apparent in clams 
than in snails, in which the apex of the shell is usually 
attacked. The constant effort on the part of shellfish to 
repair the damage caused by this erosion is a drain upon 
their vitality, and probably causes the ultimate death of 
many. 

Predatory Enemies. A number of animals prey upon 
shellfish. These animals thus come into competition with 
the mollusk-eating fish. This is compensated for, in a meas- 
ure, by the fact that many fishes live on these animals 
and thereby receive the benefit of the mollusks, though 
secondarily. Among the animals feeding on shellfish may 
be mentioned dragon-fly nymphs, horse-fly larvse, water bugs, 



24 College of Forestry 

the larvae of large water beetles, and crawfishes. Leeches 
and the larger pond snails are large consumers of mollusks. 
Frogs, salamanders, newts, the painted, snapping, and other 
turtles, as well as many ducks and other water birds also 
obtain a part of their daily food from this class of animals. 
The Muskrat is a well-known depredator of the mussel beds, 
and it is said that the Mink and Otter also eat clams 
occasionally. 

The amount of molluscan food eaten by these animals is 
not definitely known, though in some cases it is probably 
large. The nymph of one dragon-fly (Anax junius) has been 
known to eat 15 per cent of snails (Amnicola). In the case 
of the leeches, several are known to eat largely of snails,' and 
one (Glossiphonia complanata) is called the Snail Leech, 
and feeds largely on small snails. 

Shellfish as Parasites of Fish. The .intimate relation 
existing between the fresh-water clams (Fig. 10) and fishes 
has but recently become understood, principally through 
studies carried on by naturalists at the United States Bio- 
logical Laboratory at Fairport, Iowa. The young of these 
clams are known as glochidia and pass a part of their exist- 
ence attached to some part of a fish. 

The metamorphosis or transformation of the fresh-water 
mussels or clams is quite as wonderful and as interesting as 
that of the butterfly or beetle, and also quite as complicated. 
In the female mussel the gills or breathing organs are modi- 
fied to form a broad pouch or marsupium into which the eggs 
are carried soon after being fertilized by the sperm, which 
is taken in with the water through the lower siphon. After 
a period of development the eggs become purse-shaped and 
the gills are swollen and distended by the mass of young or 
embryos. After the lapse of time, the length varying in 
different kinds of mussels, the young are discharged into the 
water and fall to the bottom where they lie with their two 
shell valves widely open. The next stage is passed in a fish 
or amphibian (usually the former) which becomes infected 
by brushing or stirring up water currents at the bottom, 
which enables the young to come into contact with the gills, 



The Relation of Shellfish to Fish in Oneida Lake 25 

fins, or tail, and upon which the young clam immediately 
fastens itself. On this fish or other host the young clams 
become imbedded in the skin, which entirely covers the 
mussel embryo. After the lapse of a certain time (varying 
from nine to 74 days in different species) the young, having 
completed their transformation, break the cyst and fall to 
the bottom, usually shaped, though very small, like mature 
mussels. There are therefore four distinct stages in the 
growth of a mussel: 1, the fertilized egg; 2, the glochidium 
living in the brood pouch of a mussel; 3, the parasitic stage, 
encysted in the skin of a fish or salamander; and 4, post- 
glochidial development, with fully formed shell. Subse- 
quent growth is principally in size. Unless the young mussel 
drops from the fish to a suitable habitat it will not long 
survive. A rocky or pebbly bottom seems to be the most 
favorable to the growth of the young mussel and it is also 
upon such locations that many adult clams are found. 

Several interesting facts are now known concerning the 
subject of mussel propagation. Two principal kinds of young 
or glochidia occur: one, hooked, the other bookless. The 
former attach themselves by these hooks to the fins or other 
external parts of the fish, while the latter become encysted 
in the gills of the fish. It is believed that the hookless type 
are fixed to the gill by a fluid produced by the irritation of 
the gill by the young clam. 

It has also been ascertained that there is a long and a short 
period of reproduction, the former having the eggs fertilized 
from the middle of July to the middle of August and the 
glochidia being carried in the brood pouch until the follow- 
ing spring or early summer. In the short period the entire 
breeding season is confined to about four months, extending 
from the end of April to the middle of August, and the 
glochidia are discharged as soon as they are fully developed. 
The clams of Oneida Lake represent both long and short 
periods, two species of clams representing the latter and 
13 the former period. 

This relation between fish and mussels is very significant 
when we remember that such fish as the bullheads and other 



2(3 College of Forestry 

catfish feed upon clams or mussels. In Oneida Lake, nine 
fish are known to lie susceptible to infection by mussel glo- 
chidia. These are Green Sunfish, Bluegill, Strawberry Bass, 
White Bass, Catfish, Yellow Perch, Large-mouth Black Bass, 
Rock Bass, and Pumpkinseed. This subject has not the 
economic significance in Oneida Lake, or, indeed, in Xew 
York State, that it has in the Middle West, where the button 
factories are dependent upon, the mussels for their raw 
material. 

Recent studies (C. B. Wilson, Bull. U. S. Bureau of Fish- 
eries, Vol. 34, pp. 329-374,' 1916) on the small crustacean 
parasites, known as copepods, which infest the gills and fins 
of many fish, have shown that there is a definite relation 
between these parasites, which are harmful to the fish, and 
the young mussels or glochidia which apparently do the fish 
no harm. It was found that where the gills were already 
infected with young mussels they are practically immune 
from attacks by the harmful copepod parasites, showing that 
the presence of the glochidia is of advantage to the fish. At 
the United States Biological Station at Fairport, Iowa, 
where experiments on the artificial infection of fish by glo- 
chidia have been conducted on a large scale, it has been 
found that by infecting fish with the glochidia they may be 
rendered immune for a time from the attacks of the copepod 
parasites. It was also observed that where a fish w r as carry- 
ing the parasitic copepods it could not be infected with glo- 
chidia. Parasitic copepods have been observed on the gills 
of several species of Oneida Lake fish, and of the 50 species 
of fish inhabiting this lake, 17 are known to carry copepod 
parasites and 11 mussel glochidia, in other localities, and it 
is apparent that the mussels, of which 12 species have been 
found in Oneida Lake, are of considerable importance to the 
fish life of these waters. It is possible that the presence of 
these young mussels or glochidia has made the fish of this 
lake more or less immune to the attacks of parasitic copepods. 



The Relation of Shellfish to Fish in Oneida Lake 27 

THE SUPPLY OF FISH FOOD AVAILABLE ix OXEIDA LAKE 

The scientific study of the food relations of fresh water 
animals is of comparatively recent date. One of the fore- 
most students of the food of fish has stated that of all the 
circumstances of life none affect it so powerfully and so 
vitally as its food supply. A study of the food of any ani- 
mal soon develops into a consideration of all the animals, 
plants, and general agencies which affect the life of the 
animal in any manner. Another noted student has said that 
" barring enemies and artificial hinderances to increase, such 
as overfishiiig, fish will multiply up to the limit of the food 
supply, but can never overstep that limit. If the food supply 
can be increased, an increase in the number of fish will 
naturally follow." Failure to realize this law has probably 
caused many failures in attempts to stock bodies of water 
with fish. 

But few studies of limited areas have been carried 011 in 
this country for the purpose of ascertaining rather precisely 
the amount of fish food in a body of water. In Europe, 
however, the floating microscopic food in inland and marine 
waters has been studied, but only one quantitative study of 
the bottom animals of a lake has been seen. The most nota- 
ble study of marine bottom food has been carried 011 at the 
Danish Biological Station, under the direction of Dr. C. G. 
Joh. Petersen, who realized that to understand fully the 
conditions governing the habits of fish, especially as regards 
their food, a knowledge must be gained of the variety and 
amount of the possible food supply. In other words, a bio- 
logical survey of the fish habitat is necessary. For the pur- 
pose of carrying on this work, Dr. Petersen devised an in- 
strument which he called a " bottom sampler." With this 
apparatus it was possible to bring up from the bottom of the 
sea a small sample of the bottom one-tenth of a meter square 
(about four inches) with the bottom layers one to two milli- 
meters (1/25 to 1/13 inch) thick, in their natural position. 
A large number of these bottom samples were obtained, and 
the animals in each were counted. By this .means it was 
possible to find the average amount of food present in an 



28 College of Forestry 

area. In addition, the dried animal matter contained in this 
Tinit area was weighed, so that it was also possible to deter- 
mine the amount of animal matter in one square meter 
(10%. square feet) of bottom. Petersen was able to ascer- 
tain, by these studies and by the examination of the stomachs 
of fish and other animals, that the fish consumed about one- 
tenth of an ounce (three grams) per square meter and the 
whelks (snails) and starfishes, predaceous animals, about one- 
fifth of an ounce (six grams) dry weight per square meter, 
lie estimated that the total amount of dry matter on the 
bottom was about one ounce (30 grams) per square meter and 
that the bottom inhabiting animals consumed several times 
their own weight in a year. The food supply was found to 
reproduce itself several times during the year. 

The fine material on the bottom in the area studied by 
Dr. Petersen was found to be rich in organic matter, and 
was found to be used as food by both fish and other bottom 
inhabiting animals. This material is called " dust-fine 
detritus " by Dr. Petersen, and is believed by him to form 
a large part of the food of bottom-feeding animals. A con- 
siderable amount of the same material is held in suspension, 
and with the other floating minute animals and plants, called 
the plankton, constitutes a food supply of large proportions. 
This dust-fine detritus is largely the product of disintegra- 
tion and decay of a marine plant called Sea Wrack 
(Zostera). 

Quantitative Studies in Oneida Lake. Investigations 
comparable to those carried on by Dr. Petersen have not 
previously been conducted in America, and the results ob- 
tained by a similar study of Lower South Bay in Oneida 
Lake is therefore of much interest. A somewhat similar 
study has been made in the Swedish lake Vetter. This is 
the only study of this character of the bottom of inland 
waters of the world previous to those of Oneida Lake. An 
area of 1,164 acres, including the bay and its immediate 
vicinity, was carefully studied. A dredge was attached to a 
long handle which scraped up an area about four inches 
square or 16 square inches, in water up to six feet depth. 



The Relation of Shellfish to Fish in Oneida Lake 29 

For the deeper water, a larger dredge 16 inches wide was 
used which was dragged over an area carefully estimated to 
cover 64 square feet. The deeper water dredgings were 
reduced and averaged to the equivalent of the small 16 square 
inch unit scraped up in shallow water; each large dredging 
equalling 48 of these smaller units. Upwards of 600 sepa- 
rate samples of the bottom were collected and the contents 
carefully sorted, the animals and plants counted and the 
different species named by specialists. By collecting such a 
large number of samples it was possible to reduce the prob- 
able error made in taking samples and to calculate with a 
considerable degree of accuracy the total number of indi- 
vidual animals living in the bottom on the different kinds 
of bottom in Lower South Bay and vicinity. 

Abundance of Animals in Shallow Water. Many inter- 
esting and significant features were brought out during this 
investigation of lake bottom animals. It was computed that 
over seven billion individual animals lived in the area of 
1,164 acres. Of this life 88 per cent occurred in water 
one to six feet deep; and only 12 per cent in all the water 
deeper than six feet, or in round numbers, 6,786 million 
individuals lived in water six feet deep, and 983 million 
individuals in water more than six feet deep. From the 
standpoint of area, it was found that a population of almost 
seven billion individuals lived in 205 acres, in water six 
feet deep, and beyond this depth a population of less than 
one billion animals lived in 959 acres. Reducing this popu- 
lation to acres we find that 33 million individuals live in one 
acre in water less than six feet deep while but one million 
individuals live in one acre in water more than six feet. 
This decrease in density of population is striking, showing' 
that the greatest development of plant and animal life on 
the bottom is found in water six feet or less in depth. When 
we remember that fish are more abundant in this shallow 
water, and that this is where most adult fish breed and the 
young fish live, the significance of this richness of bottom 
life is at once realized, and indicates that this is the most 
important depth for the culture of fish even in large lakes. 



30 CoUrge of Forestry 

Animals on Different Kinds of Bottom. Another feature 
brought out by the investigation was the relative abundance 
of animal life on the different kinds of bottom. Sand bottom 
(Fig. 11) was found to be the richest in number of indi- 
viduals and boulders the poorest. If the sand be valued at 
100 per cent, the other kinds of habitats will stand as fol- 
lows: Sandy clay, 87 per cent; clay (Fig. 12), 66 per 
cent: gravel, 57 per cent; mud (Fig. 13), 42 per cent; and 
boulder. 36 per cent. Of the areas examined in the vicinity 
of Lower South Bay, the sandy bottom between Frenchman 
and Dunham Islands was computed to be the richest of all 
the shallow areas examined, averaging about 110 million 
individuals per acre. The poorest area in the vicinity of the 
bay in animal life was found to be the boulder bottom (Fig. 
14) along the shore, which averaged but four million indi- 
viduals to the acre, or less than 4 per cent of the population 
of the sand bottom. The reason for this paucity of the ani- 
mals is the exposed character of the environment and the 
small amount of plant food present. 

Herbivorous and Carnivorous Animals. The great pre- 
ponderance in number of animals feeding on plants (herbiv- 
orous) and 011 fine ^particles of decaying plant material 
(dust-fine detritus) on the bottom and suspended in the 
water, over those animals that feed upon other animals 
(carnivorous) is strikingly shown by these lake studies. 
The herbivorous animals number about 7,743 million indi- 
viduals while the carnivorous animals are calculated to 
number not more than 23 million individuals, or about 3/10 
of one per cent. This fact is important when it is remem- 
bered that the herbivorous or plant-eating animals are 
producers of flesh from vegetation and debris and the, 
carnivorous animals are consumers of materials used more 
extensively as fish food. But few fish (aside from the Carp) 
feed extensively on vegetation. One of the significant facts 
brought out in these investigations is that the presence of 
filamentous algse in abundance profoundly affects the inver- 
tebrate animals, providing a food supply of sufficient amount 
to meet the requirements of a large population of small 



The Relation of Shellfish to Fish in Oneida Lake 31 

herbivorous animals, which in their turn, provide an abun- 
dant food supply for the predaceous or carnivorous animals, 
which are to a large extent fish. 

Production of Fish. An attempt has been made to deter- 
mine the number of fish that this rich store of animal life 
will feed. To do this it was necessary to know the amount 
of food eaten in a period of time, as in a day or twenty-four 
hours. Studies of such marine fish as the Plaice indicated 
that its digestive canal is emptied about once in twenty-four 
hours. The Goby, a small European fish, is found to empty 
its alimentary canal in about six hours, the fish seeking its 
food in the daytime. These marine fish, however, may not 
be altogether comparable to our fresh-water species and these 
fish are principally suggestive of methods for work which 
should be done on fresh-water fish. 

During an investigation of the diseases of Oneida Lake fish, 
many fish were caught in trap-nets, from which fish were 
removed after intervals of 24, 48 and 72 hours. The results 
of these studies suggested that the stomach may be emptied 
in 24 hours, and the intestine in 48 hours. The percentage 
of fish with empty stomachs increased rapidly with the time 
interval of removing the fish from the net; 50 per cent 
having full stomachs in the 24-hour interval, and about 13 
per cent in the 48-hour interval. All had empty stomachs 
in the 72-hour interval. 

It is known that the digestive powers of fish become 
slower in cold weather, and it is probable that between the 
months of November and March fish eat about two-thirds or 
less of the amount of food eaten during the warmer months 
of spring, summer and fall. In the examination of the 
stomach and intestines of Oneida Lake fish it was found that 
011 the average a fish with a full stomach contained about 
115 invertebrate animals. If we assume that this amount 
is a daily average, and that fish eat this amount for nine 
months of the year, then the invertebrate animal life on the 
bottom of the 1,164 acres examined in Lower South Bay and 
vicinity are calculated to furnish food for 337,500 bottom 
feeding fish. Predatory fish like the Pike Perch consume 



32 College of Forestry 

a large number of fish. By using Illinois and Oneida Lake 
data, a single individual of this game fish is calculated to 
eat from 250 to 600 small fish in a year. When we remem- 
ber that there are hundreds of individuals of the Pike Perch, 
as well as other predatory fish, in Oneida Lake, it is at once 
seen that the number of small fish in this lake must be very 
large to supply these fish with food. It also follows that a 
large number of invertebrate animals as well as an abun- 
dance of vegetation for these smaller animals to feed upon 
is necessary to provide food for these small fish. It has 
been shown by these investigations that Oneida Lake meets 
all of these conditions favorable for fish in full measure, 
and these provide the essentials for a large and varied 
population of food and game fish (Fig. 15). 

Conclusions. A fresh water pond or lake has been com- 
pared to a microcosm or miniature world. It is isolated 
from the rest of the world and the animal life of the sur- 
rounding country might be shut off without greatly modify- 
ing the life of the water. This life has not reached the high 
state of complexity that the life on the land has attained. 
The life of the w r ater is intimately related and bound together 
so that it is quite likely that any agency that tends to influ- 
ence any group would sooner or later upset the balance of the 
whole community of animals. 

It is when we come to study the natural history of a single 
water animal that we realize how closely related this is to 
all the other animals and to the environment in which it 
lives. Thus if we wish to learn what we can concerning the 
Yellow Perch we soon find it necessary to consider the other 
animals that the Perch preys upon, as well as those which 
prey upon the Perch. We learn that this fish feeds upon 
insects, crustaceans, shellfish, and small fish. These animals- 
in turn feed upon other insects, crustaceans, and plants, and 
these in turn feed upon plants, mostly algse. The plants 
feed upon the mineral and organic matter in the water and 
soil. The physical environment, also, must be favorable in 
order that the plants may find a suitable place in which to> 
grow. And so in our study of this familiar fish we have 



The Relation of Shellfish to Fisli in Oneida Lake 33 

to consider the lives of the other inhabitants of the water in 
which the Perch lives, as well as the whole physical and 
plant environment, before we are able to understand the 
natural history of this common fish thoroughly. 

The studies carried on at Oneida Lake and elsewhere have 
shown that the group of animals known as mollusks or shell- 
fish have a vital relation to the fish fauna as well as to many 
other animals, some of which bear an intimate relation to 
fish. Recognizing the value of shellfish, it is evident that 
the time is not far distant when these, as well as other ani- 
mals of value as a food supply, w r ill be artificially introduced 
into waters where they were previously wanting or insufficient 
in number. If the environment and other factors are favor- 
able there will be 110 difficulties not surmountable that will 
hinder this procedure. The day is evidently not far distant 
when the fresh waters will be cultivated to the extent that 
the land areas are now r worked, as has been the case in 
France and Germany, where ponds have been made artifi- 
cially and stocked with fishes and their food. Food in the 
form of plants, shellfish, insects, crustaceans, etc., will be 
introduced where needed before the fish are planted, paral- 
leling in a way the preparation of the land before the crop 
is sown. Given a species of fish whose life history and 
natural history is known, it is comparatively easy to prepare 
the right kind of a habitat and the natural and suitable food. 
Thus in the course of time we may hope to have a flourish- 
iiif water culture or aquaculture, so that the streams, lakes 
and ponds of forest lands may be made as productive in their 
way of food, recreation and income as the forests are of 
lumber, game and recreation (Fig. 16). 

NOVEMBER 15, 1917. 
Department of Forest Zoology. 

2 



COMMON AND SCIENTIFIC NAMES OF FISH 
USED IN THIS CIRCULAR 



Lake Sturgeon 

Dogfish 

Toothed Herring 

(<i/zard Shad 

(Jreat Lake Trout 

Common \Vhitefish 

Round Whitefisli 

American Eel 

Red-mouthed Buffalo 

Round Buffalo 

Small-mouthed Buffalo 

Spotted Sucker 

Common Sucker 

Common Red-horse 

Short headed Red-horse 

Carp 

Channel Cat 

Yellow Bullhead 

Common Bullhead 

Black Bullhead 

Chain Pickerel 

Common Pike 

Rock Bass 

Strawberry or Calico Bass 

Bluegill 

Long-eared Sunfish 

Pumpkinseed 

Small-mouthed Black Bass 

Large-mouthed Black Bass 

Pike or Pike Perch 

Sand Pike 

Yellow Perch 

White Perch; Sheepshead 



Acclpenser rubicundus LeSueur 
Amiatus calv-us (Linnaeus) 
Hiodon teryisus LeSueur 
Dorosoma ccpedianum (LeSueur) 
Crist ivomer namycush (Walbaum) 
Coregonus clupeaformis (Mitchill) 
Coregonus quaclrilateralis Richardson 
Anguilla chryso-pa Rafinesque 
Ictiobus cyprinella (Cuvier & Valenciennes) 
Ictiobus urus (Agassiz) 
Ictiobus bubalus (Rafinesque) 
M'inytrema melanops (Rafinesque) 
Catostonnis commcrsonii (Lacepede) 
Moxostoma aureolum (LeSueur) 
Moxostoma, breviccps (Cope) 
(hfprinus carpio (Linnaeus) 
Ictalurus punctatiis (Rafinesque) 
Ameinrus natalis (LeSueur) 
AmeinniK ncbulositx (LeSueur) 
Antciiinifi melas (Rafinesque) 
ESO.T reticula t us ( LeSueur ) 
Eftox Indus (Linnaeus) 
Ambloplites rupcstris (Rafinesque) 
Pomoxis sparoides (Lacepede) 
Lepomis pallid us (Mitcliill) 
Lepomis megalotis (Rafinesque) 
Eupomotis gibbosus (Linnaeus) 
Micropterus dolomieu (Lacepede) 
Micropterus salmoides (Lacepede) 
Stizostedion vitreum (Mitchill) 
Stizostedion cana dense (Smith) 
Perca flavescens (Mitchill) 
Aplodinotiis grunnicns (Rafinesque) 



31 






Fig. 1. General view of the west end of Oneida Lake, including 
Big Bav. 




Fig. 2. Milton Point looking east, Frenchman Island in the distance. 
A bouldery point with only Water Willow and Bulrush for vegetation. 




Fig. 3. A bay-like habitat, north of Long Point, looking northwest. 
The bottom is verv sandv. 




Fig. 4. Xickerson Bay, on the north shore near the outlet at 
Brewerton. An example of a habitat with abundant vegetation. 







Fig. 5. A mussel fisherman on the Mississippi River with his flat- 
bottomed boat rigged with two crowfoot dredges, each 12 feet long, and 
used to catch mussels for the pearl button industry. 




n 



Fig. 6. The larger snails* living in Oneida Lake. 1 and 5. Viviparous 
Apple Snail ( 1 iri/xirii contectoides) ; jJ-S. Apple Snails (Cnmpcloma 
inti'f/nini and Campelcma decision); !)-12, large Pond Snails ( Li/mmra 
staynalis lilliaii(r) ; 13-20, Orb-snails (I'lanorbix Iricolris and I'lnnorbifi 
binneyi) ; when young, these Orb-snails are eaten by several species of fish. 
Campeloma and Vivipara furnish food for such fish as bullheads and catfish. 



I 

& 

4 



13 











17 18 



441 



19 io 



10 II 



J2 



26 





4 44 



IS 2Z 2.3 24 

' * 

27 28 

Z9 3 








35 



37 38 






39 40 



43 



FIG. 7. 
(For description, see next pajre. ) 



Fig. 7. Snails and finger-nail shells of special value as the food of fish. 
Xos. 1-9, small Orb-snails (Planorbis defiectus, Planorbis parvus, and Planorbis 
exactions) ; 1015, Valvata Snails (Yalvata tricarinata and Valvata bicarinata 
normalis) ; 16-18, fresh-water Limpet Snails (Ancylus fuscus, Ancylus paral- 
lelus, and Ancylus tardus) ; 19-21, Amnicola Snails (Amnicola limosa and 
Amnicola lustrica) ; 22-23, Bythinia Snails (Bythinia tentaculata) ; 24, Amber 
Snail (Succinca avara) ; 25-28, Pisidium Clams (Pisidium variabilc, Pisidium 
compressum Icevigatum, Pisidium compressum, and Pisidium cequllaterale) ; 
29-30, Musculium Clams (Musculium securis and Musculium rosaceum) ; 31-33, 
Sphffirium Clams ( Splicer ium striatinum and Sphcerium vermontanum) ; 3436. 
Tadpole Snails (Physa ancillaria warreniana and Physa Integra) ; 37-38, Pond 
Snails (Lymncea columella chalybca and Lymncua columclla) ; 39-40, Snails 

(Gillia altilis and Somatogyrus subglobosus) ; 41, Tadpole Snail (Physa 
gyrina) ; 42, Slender Pond Snail (LymncKa haldemani) ; 43. Pond Snail (Lym- 
n(Ka palustris) ; 44, the larva of a Caddis-fly which resembles a snail in form 

(Helicopsyclie borealis) . 




Fig. 8. Seining fish on Long Island, a habitat favorable for shellfish. 




Fig. 9. Collecting shellfish on the rocky shore of Frenchman Island. 







C\| 




Fig. 11. Invertebrate animals on sand bottom, water four feet deep. Area 
dredged (54 square feet. The principal animals are ' ; finger-nail " shells (ttplid- 
riitm, 1, Pisidium, 2) ; pond snails (Galba catascopium, 3) ; and small snails 
(Amnicola, 4). Caddis-fly cases, mostly without the animal, are numerous 
(Molanna and Lrptocell-a. 5). Head of Short Point Bay. 




Fig. 12. Invertebrate life on clay bottom, a 16 square inch unit, water 
4 feet deep. The principal animals are fresh-water sowbugs (Ascllus, 1) ; 
Caddis-fly larvae (Ar/rai/lca,2, Phryganeidac, 3) ; snails (Amnicola, 4) and 
Scuds (Hyalella, 5). Southwest corner of Lower South Bav. 






Fig. 13. Invertebrate life on mud bottom, water 10 feet deep. Dredged from 
area of 64 square feet. The principal animals are May-fly larvae (Hexagenia, 1) ; 
Midge-fly larva; (Chironomus, 2); finger-nail clams (Pisidium, 3); snail shells 
(Amnicola, 4) ; many empty cases of caddis-fly larvae are present (Molanna, 5, 
Leptocella, 6). Middle of Short Point Bay. 




Fig. 14. Invertebrate life on a boulder measuring 6 x 4Vo * '^/2 inches, 
water 20 inches deep. The characteristic animals are the snail (Gonio- 
basis, 1) ; the beetle larva (Psephenus, 2) ; the spiral caddis-fly (Heli- 
copsi/clie, 3) , and the May-fly larva (Heptayenia, 4) . Short Point. Lower 
South Bav. 




Fig. 15. A good habitat for fish and shellfish near Fitzgerald 
Point, north shore of Oneida Lake, near Bre\verton. 




Fig. 16. Field Laboratory at Brewerton, N. Y., at the west end of 
Oneida Lake. The crowfoot dredge (at left of picture on the .door) 
and other apparatus for collect ing shellfish are shown. 



to 
to 
H 



w 
H 



CQ 



(O ,kj 
CO f-4 

C *- O 
H O M 

rH 

" C ^ 
O O 0) 

2* 

C H dT 

a o> 4j 

^ ^ 05 



^ E-i TJ 

<1> fH 

vd O 

^ CJ 

ffi O 



H 
O 



06 




M 




O 




O 




CO 




fa 




O 




M 




Z 




DATE. 





PQ 




DO NOT 

REMOVE 

THE 

CARD 

FROM 

THIS 

POCKET 




Acme Library Card Pocket 
LOWE-MARTIN CO. LIMITED 



