K^^ 



NYPL RESEARCH LIBRARIES 



3 3433 07736271 7 




MICAL 



COOKERY 



MARIOl^ HARRIS 
NEIL 




Neil 



V 



Digitized by the Internet Archive 

in 2007 with funding from 

IVIicrosoft Corporation 



http://www.archive.org/details/economicalcookerOOneil 



ECONOMICAL COOKERY 



XOxNiaT 'HOXSV 



AHYHen onand 

/A ■: A 3111 




Vk<;i: PA i;i \ \ IJo v-t. P( 




Creamki) ('iikkkx in- Bread IVviiii:-. Pa<.l& ^-'-'^ 




Meat wiiii (Jnkjn and liAKD-cuuivti* KG(_r>. Fmje J^O. 
Frontispiece. 



ECONOMICAL COOKERY 



BY 

MARION HARRIS NEIL 

FORMERLY COOKERY EDITOR, THE LADIEB' 
HOME JOURNAL 



WITH ILLUSTRATIONS 
FROM PHOTOGRAPHS 




BOSTON 

LITTLE, BROWN, AND COMPANY 

1918 



THE NEW YORK | 
PUBLIC LIBRARY 

837205 

ASTOR. LENOX AND 
TILDEN FOUNDATIONS 
R I9!8 L 



Copyright, 1918, 
By Little, Brown, and Company. 



All rights reserved 



Nortoooti ^re20 

Set up and electrotyped by J. S. Gushing Co., Norwood, Mass., U.S.A. 

Presswork by S, J, Parkhill & Co., Boston, Mass., U.S.A. 



PREFACE 

The present volume has been prepared with great care ; every 
recipe has been tested and tried, and will be found to meet the 
requirements of housekeepers of all classes. Young housewives 
who are novices in the culinary art will find it of service as a 
book of reference, while older house mothers who are experts, 
and who have been cooks for years to their family circle, may 
discover in its pages some helpful hint or serviceable recipe 
hitherto unknown. I have confined my attention strictly 
and exclusively to Economical Cookery, for I believe it is in this 
direction that improvement is chiefly needed. I have not 
sought to furnish an array of dishes requiring in their preparation 
costly ingredients, and an acquaintance with the art — for 
cookery is an art, and a very fine art too — far beyond that 
which may be readily gathered from a little experience and the 
exercise of a little common sense. 

Those who have accustomed themselves to " fare sumptuously 
every day" would perhaps find it to their advantage to think 
rather less of extravagant living than they now do. It is the 
everyday food of everyday people which needs to be chosen 
more judiciously, cooked more skillfully, and served more in- 
vitingly than it now is. 

Marion Harris Neil. 



CONTENTS 

;hapter page 

Preface v 

I How TO Choose Our Food .... 1 

II The Processes of Cookery . . . .10 

III Beverages 17 

IV Bread, Biscuits, Muffins, Rolls, etc. . 28 
V Cereals 43 

VI Eggs and Omelets 53 

VII Stocks and Soups 64 

VIII Fish 81 

IX Meats 93 

X Poultry and Game 108 

XI Vegetables 123 

XII Salads and Salad Dressings .... 138 

XIII Puddings 151 

XIV Sweet and Savory Sauces .... 163 
XV Ice Creams and Ices 174 

XVI Pastries, Pies, and Tartlets. . . . 183 

XVII Cakes, Fillings, and Frostings . . . 198 

XVIII Toasts and Sandwiches 213 

XIX Chafing-Dish Cookery 223 

XX Cold Meat Cookery 233 

XXI Breakfast, Luncheon, and Supper Dishes . 243 

XXII Vegetarian Dishes 253 

XXIII Invalid Cookery 266 

XXIV Candies 275 

XXV Preserving and Pickling .... 287 

XXVI Miscellaneous 302 

vii 



Vlll 

CHAPTER 

XXVII 
XXVIII 



XXIX 

XXX 

XXXI 



CONTENTS 

PAOB 

Wrinkles 312 

What to Serve with Fish, Meats, and Vege- 
tables 318 

Menus 321 

Time-Table for Cooking 326 

Weights and Measures 329 

Index 331 



LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS 

Vegetarian Roast; Creamed Chicken in Bread Patties; 

Meat with Onion and Hard-Cooked Eggs . Frontispiece 

Facing Page 

A Place for Everything. Everything in Its Place . . 16 

Making Cocoa 17 

Choca 17 

Hot Chocolate . .26 

Coffee for Breakfast 26 

Tea with a Russian Samovar 27 

Graham Biscuits ........ 27 

Brown Bread 34 

Raisin Bread 34 

Bread Cutters 35 

Whole Wheat Gems 35 

Farina Mush .52 

Cereal with Dates .52 

Eggs in Nests 52 

Making Egg Dishes 53 

Making an Omelet 53 

Making Stocks for Soups 53 

Dumplings in Japanese Casserole 80 

Soup Maigre, served " en Marmite " 80 

Making Strawberry Soup 80 

Filleting a Flounder 81 

Planked Fish 81 

Fish Cakes 81 

Ham Baked in Pastry 106 

Loin of Veal, Roasted 106 

Removing the Tendons from Turkey .... 107 

Rabbit en Casserole 107 

Stuffed Egg Plant with Eggs 136 

Stewed Endive 136 

Stuffed Tomatoes 136 

Cauliflower and Brussels Sprouts Salad . . . .137 

Marshmallow Fruit Salad 137 

iz 



X LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS 

Facing Page 

Cabbage, Apple, and Nut Salad 137 

Rice and Date Pudding 1(;0 

Strawberry Ring . . . . , . . .160 

Steamed Meat Pudding 161 

Making Tough Meat Tender 161 

Making Piquante Sauce 174 

Making Molasses Sauce 174 

Apple Ice Cream 174 

Peach Ice Cream 175 

Maple Nut Ice Cream 175 

Rolling Out Pastry 175 

Raisin and Apple Pie 198 

Rhubarb Pie 198 

Peach Pie 198 

Cocoanut Birthday Cake 199 

Eggless, Milkless, and Butterless Cake .... 199 

Quick Coffee Cake 212 

Assorted Cakes 212 

Afternoon Tea Sandwiches 213 

Using Electric Chafing Dish 213 

Assorted Sandwiches 213 

Deviled Bananas 230 

Potted Salmon 230 

Savorj^ Peppers with Onion 230 

Cornish Pasty 231 

Celery and Oysters 231 

Marrow Bones Ready for the Oven 258 

Curried Vegetables 258 

Split Peas and Onions 258 

Stewed Fish 259 

Cabbage and Ham 259 

Invalid Dishes . . .259 

Making Candy with Aid of Thermometer .... 286 

Assorted Candies 286 

For Pickling Time 287 

Apple and Orange Marmalade 287 

A Canner for Canning Fruits and Vegetables . . . 300 

A Spring Luncheon Table 301 

A St. Valentine Table 301 



ECONOMICAL COOKERY 

CHAPTER I 

HOW TO CHOOSE OUR FOOD 

Money can be spent to infinitely better advantage in the store 
than by giving orders at the door, by mail, or telephone. Every 
housekeeper knows how large a proportion of the housekeeping 
money is swallowed by the butcher's bill, so that with the meat 
item careful selection is most necessary in order to keep the bills 
within bounds. 

In choosing meat of any kind, the eye, the nose, and the 
touch are really required, although it is not appetizing to see 
the purchaser use more than the eye. 

FISH 

Any fish intended for cooking purposes must be in season and 
must be fresh. Fish is out of season and therefore not so good 
during the period of spawning, the flesh being watery, flabby, 
and without much flavor. 

Fresh fish are hard when pressed by the finger, the eyes full 
and the gills red. If the flesh is flabby and the eyes sunken, the 
fish are stale and inferior. Plenty of scales on scaly fish usually 
indicate freshness. The spots or marks on such fish as mackerel 
should be clear and bright, but one of the best tests is the smell, 
which should be fresh and not unpleasant. The girth of a fish 
should be large in comparison to its length. In choosing cut 
fish, such as cod, halibut, and salmon, the flesh should have a 
fine appearance with a close grain ; if it looks fibrous, loose, and 
watery, it is not good. Never choose fish that is bruised or has 
the skin broken, as it will not keep well. Fish that is frozen 

1 



2 ECONOMICAL COOKERY 

should be thawed by letting it lie in cold water before it is used. 
Do not allow it to remain in the water longer than is necessary. 

Salmon should have a small head and tail, full thick shoulders, 
clean silvery scales, and flesh of a bright rich yellowish red. 

When quite fresh there is a white curd between the flesh, 
which is stiff and hard; but if kept, this melts, softening the 
flesh and rendering it richer, but at the same time less digestible. 

Trout, in spite of the diJTerence in size, may be judged by the 
same rule as salmon. It will not, however, bear keeping, 
deteriorating rapidly. 

Cod should have a large head and thick shoulders, a small tail, 
the flesh white and clear, and the skin silvery and clean. 

Skate should be white, thick, broad, and creamy. 

Mackerel must be very fresh when eaten, or it is not whole- 
some. The fish should be pearly white underneath, and the 
markings very bright and distinct. Small or medium-sized fish 
are the best. 

Smelts should be silvery and stiff, with a delicate odor faintly 
suggestive of a cucumber newly cut. 

Eels are best bought alive to insure absolute freshness. They 
should be soaked in salt and water some time before cooking. 
Eels are valuable on account of their nutritive properties, and 
as they are rich in themselves, they are best cooked and served 
very simply. 

To skin an eel. First cut off the head. Then turn back the 
skin at the top, and draw it downwards, turning it outside in. 
Eels about two pounds in weight are usually preferred. 

Herrings must be absolutely fresh to be good, and when in this 
state their scales shine like silver. If kept overlong, their eyes 
become suffused with blood, a sure sign that the fish is stale. 

Halibut is a wholesome fish. It should be moderate-sized, 
thick, and of a white color, the skin tight and unwrinkled. 

Shrimps, Prawns, Crabs, and Lobsters should be hea\y for their 
size. The tails should clip tightly against the bodies, and spring 
back quickly into position when pulled out straight and then 
loosened. Lobsters having thick shells, broad tails, with a few 
black markings, are usually the best. Crabs are bad if they are 
light and limp. 



HOW TO CHOOSE OUR FOOD 3 

Oysters must be eaten only when in season and they must be 
very fresh. The shell should close sharply on the knife when it 
is inserted. If the shell is a little open, the fish is not in its 
primary freshness, and if it remains open, the oyster should not 
be consumed. 

MEATS 

Beef. In selecting beef, choose that of a fine smooth grain, of a 
rich red color, with cream-colored or pale yellow fat. If the lean 
portion is of a pale color, then it is probably cut from a diseased 
or a poorly nourished animal, while if of a very dark color, then 
the animal was not in good condition when killed, or had not 
been slaughtered. The best beef has a mottled appearance with 
fat, little odor, and that not unpleasant. Meat should not be 
moist and watery, and if properly cooked it should not shrink 
or waste greatly. 

One test of the good quality of meat is the condition of the 
tongue ; if this be clean skinned, plump, with the fat at the root 
inclining to a pinky white, the flesh will be tender and in con- 
dition ; but if, on the contrary, it be rough, dark, and with dead 
white fat the meat will be tasteless and hard. 

Veal is the flesh of the calf. It is at its best when the calf is 
three to four months old, when the meat should be of a close 
fine grain, white in color, with the fat inclining to a pinkish 
tinge. The kidney should be small, free from discoloration, and 
wrapped in plenty of firm white fat. Like all young meat, veal 
very rapidly turns sour, so must be cooked speedily. The head 
should be firm and clean skinned, the eyes clear and full, the 
liver a dark rich clear color, free from any spots, while the 
sweetbreads should be plump, of a delicate color, and free from 
strings. Veal is not considered to be very digestible, and if it 
is very young it contains little nourishment. 

It stands lowest among heat producing meat, and for that 
reason requires to be eaten with rice, potatoes, bacon, etc.; 
these also help to redeem its lack of flavor. If veal is cooked 
slowly and thoroughly, it is a most useful meat, and will furnish 
quite a variety of tasty dishes. 

Mutton. The lean should be finely grained and a clear, dark 
red, with the bones small. The fat should be clear, white, and 



4 ECONOMICAL COOKERY 

very hard. Mutton stands next to beef in nutritive qualities, 
and for some people it is of more value as food because it is more 
easily digested, its fibers being shorter and more tender. It has, 
however, a strong flavor. Age has a great deal to do with the 
quality of the mutton. From four to five years old is the best 
age for killing, but the sheep are generally killed between two and 
three years of age. 

Lamb is immature meat, needs thorough cooking, and does not 
keep well. It is paler in color than mutton, and the fat is pearly 
white and should have no tinge of yellow. When lamb is fresh, 
the veins in the neck end of the forequarter have a bluish tinge, 
and when stale these develop a greenish hue. In the hind- 
quarters the kidneys and the fat round them should be ex- 
amined ; if they are flabby, with an unpleasant smell, the meat 
is stale. 

Pork. To be delicate, pork must be small and not too fat. 
The fat should be very firm and white, the lean a delicate brown- 
ish pink, close grained, firm textured, and free from any kind of 
spots or kernels, these always denoting the presence of one or 
other of the parasites with which the flesh of pigs is specially 
liable to become infested. Pork contains an excess of fat, and 
is the one meat which is rendered more wholesome with salting. 
Never buy it in warm weather ; an old but wise rule is to permit 
it on the table only in those months that have an '' R " in 
their spelling. The skin must not be too thick, and it must be 
elastic and smooth. 

Sucking pigs should be small, and are at their best when about 
four weeks old. A sucking pig should be cooked as soon as pos- 
sible after it is killed, as it taints quickly ; unless very fresh, no 
care in the cooking will make the crackling crisp and delicious 
as it should be. 

Bacon must be fresh and free from any unpleasant odor. The 
grain should be fine, the lean of a bright pink, and the fat firm 
and white. There should be as little gristle as possible. Bacon 
varies much in price, according to cut and quality. 

Ham. Choose a short thick leg with a moderate amount of 
fat. The rind should be rather thin and the bone fine. In 
selecting a' ham always run a pointed Icnife or skewer in close 



HOW TO CHOOSE OUR FOOD 5 

to the bone ; when withdrawn it should not be greasy nor have 
a disagreeable strong smell but, on the contrary, be clean and 
have a good flavor. Hams vary in price according to the man- 
ner of curing and special reputation. 

Suet. This must be very fresh and of the best quality. The 
solid fat which surrounds the kidney, either beef or mutton, is 
considered the best. Beef suet should be cream colored or pale 
yellow, not deep yellow, or it will be oily and difficult to chop fine. 
Mutton suet should be of waxy whiteness, and very firm, hard, 
and dry. Veal suet is particularly delicate. Any kernels which 
show themselves when suet is cut through should be removed 
immediately, as well as any parts discolored with blood, as these, 
if left, will decompose and taint the rest. 

Livers and Kidneys and all inside meats such as tripe, sweet- 
breads, etc., must be chosen carefully and used at once. Livers 
and kidneys should be fresh, firm textured, and free from smell, 
and from all specks or discoloration. All kinds of kidneys must 
be skinned before cooking, and the white inside tube removed. 

Venison is the flesh of the deer. The lean should be finely 
grained and dark in color ; this depends on its being well hung, 
as it should be. The fat should be plentiful, firm, and of a clear, 
creamy white color. The age of the animal can be judged by 
the hoof; in the young animal the flesh is small and smooth, 
while in the older one it has become deeper and rougher. Deer 
should be from four to five years old to be in first-class condition. 
The finest joint for roasting is the haunch. The loin and neck 
are also good roasting pieces. The shoulder and breast are bet- 
ter stewed or made into a ragotit or pasty. Steaks are cut from 
the leg and chops from the neck or loin. 

POULTRY AND GAME 

In choosing poultry and game, regard must be had to : Color 
and skin of legs; condition and shape; age; freshness. All 
poultry when young should have smooth and pliable legs, with 
the scales overlapping very slightly. The spurs of male birds 
under a year old are represented only by scaly knobs, through 
which the true spur later pushes itself. The spur on the leg of 
the male bird must be short and not prominent, and the feet 



6 ECONOMICAL COOKERY 

should be soft and rather moist. If the spur is large and the legs 
hard and dry, the bird is no longer young. The flesh should be 
smooth and without long hairs. The breast should be plump, 
and both the breastbone and the beak soft and pliable. 

Be careful to note that the birds are free from all discoloration, 
and that the eyes are full and clear. Long thin necks with a 
purplish tint denote age, so also does a purplish tint on the 
thigh. 

The weight should be great in proportion to size, but an over- 
fat bird is not economical, and owing to the flesh being greasy, 
it is less digestible and delicate in flavor. 

White-skinned birds are considered best for boiling, while 
yellow ones will do well enough for roasting. 

For roasting choose a fowl with black or yellow legs, as they 
are more juicy and possess a better flavor. 

For boiling, grilling, roasting, and frying, fowls of the first 
year are best ; but for braising or stewing, old ones, which are 
both cheaper and larger, will do very well, because long slow 
cooking makes them tender. 

Ducks and Geese. Young ducks have yellow feet and bills ; 
as they become older these turn darker and redder. The wild 
duck is an exception, as it has small reddish feet even when 
young. The under bill should be soft and pliable and easily 
broken when bent. The legs should be smooth, and the webbing 
of the feet soft and easily torn. The breast should be plump, 
but not overfat. 

The legs of geese should be pliable and yellow, and the webbing 
of the feet easily torn. The bill should also be pliable and 
yellow and with few bristles, and the under bill easily broken 
when bent. The breast should be plump and rounded, but 
without too much fat, and the skin smooth. A goose should 
always be eaten young. When over a year old, it is not good 
for table use. 

Turkeys. When fresh and in good condition, the skin of a 
turkey should look clear and unwrinkled, and the flesh firm and 
plump. The wattles should be a bright red. Beware of birds 
with long hairs and flesh of a violet hue. Moderate-sized birds 
should be chosen. A hen is preferable for boiling on account of 



HOW TO CHOOSE OUR FOOD 7 

the whiteness of the flesh, but the cock is usually chosen for 
roasting. If freshly killed, a turkey should be kept for at least 
three or four days before cooking, or it will be neither white 
nor tender. 

Pigeons. A.dark-colored pigeon is thought to have the highest 
flavor, and a light-colored one the most delicate. Pigeons should 
have the flesh on the breast a light red, with the legs a pinkish 
color ; when they are large and deeply colored, the bird is old. 
The breast should be fat and plump. Squabs are young tame 
pigeons. 

Rabbits and Hares. When rabbits and hares are young, the 
claws are smooth, sharp, and pointed, the cleft in the jaws is 
narrow, the teeth white and small, and the ears soft and easily 
torn. They have large knee joints ui comparison to their size. 
If old, they will have grayish fur, thick blunt claws, and tough 
ears. Rabbits should be used fresh. Choose one that is plump 
and short-necked, and with the flesh stiff and fresh, and without 
discoloration. Hares require to be well hung, and with these, 
as with other game, the condition of the eye will show approxi- 
mately how long it is since the animal has been killed. The 
cleft in the lip should be narrow. A hare under a year old is 
best for roasting purposes. 

Game Birds. In the young game birds the legs should be 
smooth, and the feet moist and supple ; the beak so brittle that 
the under portion snaps across easily if it is bent backwards. 
The breasts should be plump, firm, and hard, and the long quills 
in the wings soft and not fully developed. The feathers help 
to indicate the age of the bird ; when young there are soft and 
downy ones under the wing and on the breast. The plumage of 
the young bird is even and soft, the long feathers of the wing 
are pointed, while in the older bird these become round, and the 
colors are usually brighter. The bird should weigh heavily for 
its size. Do not choose a bird that has been badly shot, as when 
much shattered, some parts will become uneatable before the 
rest is tender. 

Vegetables. Vegetables should be fresh to the eye, crisp to 
the touch, and have a cool refreshing odor. Withered or de- 
cayed vegetables are extremely unwholesome. The pods, leaves, 



8 ECONOMICAL COOKERY 

and stalks of many varieties begin to lose bulk and flavor as soon 
as cut. Pods and stalks should snap across easily when they are 
bent by the fingers. 

Cucumbers should be very stiff and thick. Cauliflowers should 
be very firm, close, and a creamy white, the leaves round the 
flower being green and crisp. 

The pods of peas should be crisp and bright green with no 
sign of yellow. They should be full, but if very large they are 
apt to be old. If the peas be heard to rattle in the pods, they 
are worthless. 

Potatoes with rough skins are usually the most floury when 
boiled. Select those free from "eyes", and remember large 
ones will be the most economical, as there is less waste in peeling 
them. New potatoes must have rough ragged looking skins, 
easily scraped off with the finger nail. 

MISCELLANEOUS 

Flour must have no musty or unpleasant smell, or acid taste. 
Good wheat flour should be soft and silky to the touch, not 
greasy or gritty, and when a little is squeezed together in the 
hand, it should adhere together, not lose its shape when the 
pressure is relaxed. The color should be a creamy white for 
ordinary household purposes ; if very fine and white it contains 
but little nutriment. 

Eggs should be heavy and have rough dull shells ; when stale 
these become quite shiny as if poHshed. When held in front of 
a strong light they should have a transparent look and no dark 
spots should be visible. A common method of testing the fresh- 
ness of eggs is to place them in water, when a new-laid egg will 
be nearly submerged, and an old egg wiU project above the 
surface, the reason being that eggs lose their specific gravity by 
keeping. 

Butter should be firm in texture and free from moisture or 
any rancid smell. It should be rich, but not too deep in color, 
and the flavor should be mild. Butter is frequently adulterated 
with water, and its undue presence may be detected by melting, 
when the water will remain at the bottom. The water is added 
to increase the weight. 



HOW TO CHOOSE OUR FOOD 9 

Lard. The best lard is very white, close, and has little or no 
odor. If it sputters furiously when heated, it indicates the 
presence of water, due either to careless '' trying out " of the raw 
fat, or to its having been added to the melted fat, to give in- 
creased weight. 

Milk. Allow milk to stand for some hours and note the 
depth of cream which rises to the top ; if it be very slight, the 
milk has been previously skimmed and is of a poor quality ; if 
it be very thin and slightly bluish looking, it is not worth buying. 
Skim milk is milk separated from its fat or cream by allowing 
the latter to rise to the surface of the liquid and being then 
" skimmed " off. Skimmed milk contains some fat and all 
the other natural constituents of milk. 

Buttermilk is the residue after removing the butter from milk 
by churning. It is most nutritious, as the casein of the milk is 
still retained in great quantities, but the milk sugar has become 
converted into lactic acid, giving it a slightly sour flavor. It is 
a most refreshing drink, and it is easily digested. 



CHAPTER II 

THE PROCESSES OF COOKERY 

"Pray you, take note of it." 

ROASTING AND BAKING 

The actual differences between roasting and baking are not 
great, the terms being frequently interchanged. Roasting 
proper is cooking before the fire. It is one of the oldest methods 
of cooking on record, and still remains the favorite form of pre- 
paring poultn,', game, and meats. Roasting is cooking by the 
direct action of radiating heat, and roasted meat is, strictly 
speaking, meat which has been placed in such a position that the 
radiation of a fire affects the whole surface equally, while at the 
same time a current of fresh air passes around it. Meat thus 
cooked will retain more of the juices and develop more flavor 
than by any other process. Should the heat be iosufficient to 
harden the surface albumen quickly, the waten,- juices evapo- 
rate, and the meat becomes dry and tasteless. The heat must 
not be so intense that the albumen is hardened all through the 
meat ; after the preliminary- ten or fifteen minutes, it must be 
reduced, or the meat will be tough and charred. The meat 
should be basted every ten minutes, as this helps to cook it, keeps 
it juicy, and improves the flavor. The time allowed is fifteen 
minutes for everj' pound, and twenty minutes over for beef and 
mutton; for veal and pork, twenty minutes for everv' pound 
and thirty mi n utes over. Boned and rolled or stuffed meats 
require longer cooking than the same joints would if neither 
rolled nor stuffed. 

Roasting may be performed id a properly ventilated oven. 
This is considered to give less excellent results than roastuig 
before a fire, the flavor being frequently less dehcate, but this 

10 



THE PROCESSES OF COOKERY 11 

will depend largely on the perfect cleanliness of the oven and 
the system of its ventilation. The proper time and process of 
roasting mast be left to the good judgment of the cook, who 
should be guided by circumstances and conditions. Sprinkle 
meat with pepper and salt when nearly ready, as salt sprinkled 
on before the meat is brown will draw out the juice and toughen 
the fiber. 

Baking is cooking in close hot air, and hot air plays a very 
important part in cooking. Although baking in an oven is not 
done by radiating heat, there is a large amount of heat radiated 
from the top and bottom and sides of the oven. Meat loses 
rather less weight when baked than when roasted, but the flavor 
of baked meat is inferior and less developed. The heat of an 
oven being steady, baking takes somewhat less time than 
roasting. 

For baking bread, cakes, pastry, puddings, custards, vege- 
tables, and farinaceous dishes, the oven will always remain in 
favor. In baking, especially puff pastry and souffles, it is well 
to know that opening the door of an oven is detrunental to fine 
pastry in process of baking. Baked custards and milk puddings 
require a more moderate oven than pastrj-, and a longer time in 
baking, for if they are baked too quick the milk will turn watery 
in the dish, while the top will bum. The difference between 
baking and boiling is that by the former method the food is 
cooked bj^ dry heat, while the latter is cooked by liquid heat. 
Baking, as compared with other cooking processes, such as 
broiling and roasting, differs in this : while by broiling and roast- 
ing the food is cooked hy full exposure to the hot air, baking is 
performed in ovens, more or less close structures, whereby the 
action of dry heat is modified by the presence of the steam that 
comes from the food which is being baked. 

BRAISING 

Braising is a combination of two methods of cooking — roast- 
ing and stewing — usually applied to small joints of meat. 
This process decreases loss by evaporation, and is one of the 
best ways of cooking the cheaper cuts of meat. The saucepan 
should be deep, and the lid must fit securely. 



12 ECONOMICAL COOKERY 

First place a little butter substitute at the bottom of the 
saucepan and allow it to melt. Then put in a layer of vegetables 
cut in dice — the bed of vegetables should be about one and one 
half inches in depth — add seasonings, and on top place the meat. 
Cook over the fire twenty minutes, shaking the pan occasionally 
to prevent the contents sticking. Next pour in enough water 
or stock to cover the vegetables and just touch the meat, cover 
with a piece of well greased paper, and put the lid on the pan, 
and cook until the meat is tender. The liquid is slowly reduced, 
forming a rich gravy. 

The cooking may be done either on top of the stove or in the 
oven, where it is surroimded by uniform heat, and will need 
very little attention. Occasional basting during the process of 
this method of cooking is essential. When done, the meat is 
taken up, the fat removed from the vegetables and gravy, which 
latter is then reduced, strained, and blended with some kind of 
gravy or sauce. The most stubborn pieces of tough meat will 
yield to the persuasion of the braising pan and become tender, 
especially if a little vinegar or lemon juice be added to the gravy 
in the pan. Plenty of time must be allowed for cooking. 

BROILING OR GRILLING 

Broiling, sometimes called grilling, is one of the quickest 
methods of cooking. It is cooking on a hot grill or gridiron 
either over or in front of a hot fire. When a gas stove is used 
it is done under the griller. It is a similar process to roasting, 
with the same results and the same drawbacks ; namely, it is an 
extravagant method, as much fuel and the best cuts of meat are 
essential to success. This method can only be applied to small 
pieces of meat which will cook quickly, such as chops, steak, 
kidneys, small pieces of vegetables, joints of game and poultry, 
etc. 

The fire for broiling must be clear and intensely hot. The 
outer surface of the meat is burned or seared, the albumen 
hardens, and the juices, which have a tendency to escape on the 
side turned from the heat, are retained in the meat by frequent 
turning. The meat must be turned at short intervals, before the 
juices have been driven from the fire to the opposite surface. 



THE PROCESSES OF COOKERY 13 

If once allowed to reach the surface, they will be thrown off in 
turning and wasted. The meat must not be pierced with a 
fork, or the juices will escape, and much of the flavor will be 
lost. Arrange the food on the griller so that the thickest part 
of it will be just in the center of the fire, where it will obtain the 
greatest heat ; also should there be any fat on the meat, it should 
be placed at the top, so that, as it melts, the drippings trickle 
down and baste the meat. It is essential that the griller be 
clean, well heated, and greased. The time for grilling must be 
regulated by the thickness, rather than by the weight of the 
meat, and experience alone can teach when a steak or chop is 
done. When cut, broiled meat should look moist and red, and 
the gravy should run from it. 

BOILING 

Boiling is cooking food by moist heat, by immersing it in boil- 
ing liquid for a certain time. 

Boiling is one of the simplest, most economical, most generally 
used methods of cooking, and when correctly done, it renders 
food both digestible and wholesome. In most cases the article 
itself does not boil, but is immersed in boiling water or stock; 
but the term is also applied correctly to vegetables, cereals, 
puddings, and in cases where evaporation is required, or the 
reduction of sauces, stocks, etc. Meat loses less weight by boil- 
ing and steaming than by any other process. The^object in boiling 
meat is to retain as much as possible of the juices in the flesh, 
and for this end it should be put into a pan of fast boiling water. 
This closes up the pores on the outside of the meat, and these 
close and harden ; a skin is formed which both prevents the es- 
cape of the nutritive juices and excludes the water. Aiter a 
few minutes the purpose of the fast boiling water is effected, and 
the cooking must be continued at a lower temperature, namely, 
by simmering. By this is meant the state of heat at which little 
bubbles appear from time to time at the edges of the pan. 

Should the liquid evaporate, sufficient boiling water or stock 
should be added to cover the meat — but the possibility of evapo- 
ration must be kept in view when placing the meat in the pan, 
and sufficient water should be supplied at first to allow for this. 



14 ECONOMICAL COOKERY 

The time allowed for boiling meat varies so much that it is 
impossible to give a definite rule. Experience will guide one 
according to the weight and kind of meat. Twenty minutes to 
the pound and twenty minutes over is the standard time for 
boiling, but this rule is only possible when the meat weighs three 
pounds or over. It is impossible to simmer meat on a fierce 
fire, so the heat must be properly regulated. 

Salt meat should be put into cold water in order to soften it 
and draw out some of the salt, then brought slowly to the boil, 
boiled for a few minutes only, and the cooking continued as 
with fresh meat. If very salt or highly smoked, it should be 
soaked in cold water for some time before cooking. The liquor 
in which salt meat has been cooked should not be put in the stock 
pot, but it can be used for making pea, lentil, bean, or potato 
soup. Salt meat takes longer to cook than fresh meat, and the 
saltness may be much qualified by boiling vegetables with 
the meat. 

STEAMING 

Food is said to be steamed when it is cooked by moist heat in 
the vapor arising from boiling water. Steaming is the most 
gi'adual of all the methods of cooking, and though this necessi- 
tates the use of more fuel, yet, as many different articles of food 
can be steamed over one utensil containing boiling water, it is 
really economical, and is largely adopted in hotels, hospitals, 
etc. There must be plenty of steam, or the process will not be 
a success. The gradual heat renders the food more digestible, 
hence its special value for invalid cookery. 

None of the nutritious elements of fish, meat, fruit, or veg- 
etables are lost in the water, thus all foods retain their full flavor 
and food value. Small pieces of meat or fish may be steamed 
in a jar placed in a saucepan of boiling water, or even on a plate 
placed on the top of a saucepan of boiling water. 

FRYING 

Frying is cooking foods by contact with fat at a high temper- 
ature, and is the quickest of all cooking methods. It may be 
considered under three heads, generally known as wet frying, 



THE PROCESSES OF COOKERY 15 

dry frying, and sauteing. A deep pan is used for wet frying, and 
should contain enough hot fat to cover the food to be fried. This 
method is used for croquettes, fritters, etc. Foods fried thus 
are usually, though not always, protected from the intense heat 
with some material that will harden instantly when heated, and 
so prevent the juice or flavor passing into the fat and the entrance 
of the fat into the food. The substances generally used for 
coating are eggs, bread crumbs, batters, pastry, etc. 

A great help for deep frying is a frying basket to fit the pan, 
as by this the food can be removed at once and without danger 
of breaking. Do not put too many articles into the pan at one 
time, or they will cool the fat too much ; and always reheat the 
fat before putting in a second lot. The heat of the fat before 
using is a most important point. As a rule, the correct heat 
for frying is reached when a blue vapor rises from the surface of 
the fat ; or the heat may be tested by putting in a small crust 
of bread; if this frizzles freely, the fat is ready for use. For 
uncooked articles such as doughnuts, the fat should be hot 
enough to brown a piece of bread in forty seconds. For cooked 
articles such as croquettes, the fat should be hot enough to 
brown a piece of bread in twenty seconds. The average tem- 
perature of fat for frying is about 380° F. The fat should not 
be left on the range when the cooking is finished with, as it will 
quickly get overheated and burn. It should be allowed to cool, 
then strained through cheesecloth or muslin. It may then be 
put aside for future use. If care is taken of the fat in this way, 
it will keep good for many weeks, and it will not be found an 
extravagance, as but little is consumed each time. It may seem 
extravagant to the uninitiated to talk about using abundance of 
fat for frying, but this method of wet frying is to be preferred 
for most foods rather than dry frying or sauteing. If the fat 
becomes dark colored, heat slowly and drop in a few slices of 
raw potato. They will absorb various impurities from the fat 
and thus clarify it. 

For dry frying only a very small amount of fat is used, just 
enough to prevent the food from sticking to the frying pan. It 
is employed for eggs, omelets, bacon, cutlets, sausages, pan- 
cakes, etc. The fat must be made quite hot, and then the food 



16 ECONOMICAL COOKERY 

placed in it and cooked on both sides. It is seldom possible to 
use the fat from dry frying a second time except for dishes of 
the same kind, as the fat is always more or less flavored by the 
food cooked in it. All fried foods must be drained carefully on 
soft paper. 

Saut6ing is best described as '' tossing." It is also a form of 
dry frying, for just enough fat is used to toss the food about in 
to prevent it from sticking to the pan. A quick fire is needed, 
and the contents of the pan kept continuously in motion either 
by moving it back and forth or skillfully tossing the food over. 

STEWING 

Stewing is allowing food to simmer in a small amount of hot 
liquid for a long time. A simmering heat is that just below 
boiling point. This is the most economical way of cooking food, 
as all the juices and nutriment are retained, while the food 
being cooked is softened and rendered entirely digestible. Stew- 
ing is often spoiled by being done too rapidly. The meat is 
really fried over a hot fire to begin with, and after this very slow 
cooking is absolutely necessary. There is a true saying that 
" to boil a stew is to spoil a stew." If a stew boils one observes 
large bubbles on the top of it ; if it simmers, the bubbles are tiny 
and rise only here and there on the stew. There are two vari- 
eties of stews made from meat : the white stew or fricassee, and 
the brown stew or ragotit. 

A close covered casserole or saucepan is best for making stews, 
which may be cooked in the oven, on top of the stove, or in 
the fireless cooker. Stewing is specially suitable for the coarse 
and therefore cheaper parts of meat, which are thus rendered 
tender without loss of their juices. The slow cooking in moist 
heat softens the hard fiber and gelatinous substances. Meat 
loses but little weight if stewed. Vegetables being usually 
added to the meat, the bulk of the stew is economically increased, 
and it is rendered more savory and wholesome. Stews are con- 
venient for family use, as they can be easily reheated or kept hot 
without spoiling them. 




Makixg Cocoa. Page 19. 




Choc A. Page IS. 



CHAPTER III 

BEVERAGES 

" One sip of this 
Will bathe the drooping spirits in delight 
Beyond the bliss of dreams." 

Under this heading are classed all liquids such as tea, coffee, 
cocoa, chocolate, water, mineral waters, and other liquors, which 
are consumed more for the purpose of quenching thirst than 
relieving hunger. The chief constituent of them all is water, 
and their nutritive properties vary considerably. Few beverages 
are satisfactory as food, but their consumption is necessary to 
life to replace the water excreted by the body in the performance 
of its various functions, as a solvent of food, to keep the albumens 
absorbed in a state of solution, and to regulate the temperature 
of the body. Water forms sixty per cent, of the weight of the 
human body and requires about fifty ounces each day, either 
alone or combined in food. For the physiological purposes 
referred to, pure water is the best beverage. 

A Palatable Rhubarb Beverage 

3 pounds rhubarb 12 oranges 

Boiling water 3 grapefruit 

6 lemons 1 cup (| pt.) grape juice 
Sugar 

Wash and cut rhubarb in small pieces, place in granite sauce- 
pan, and barely cover with water. Cook until tender, drain 
through a colander, add strained juice of lemons, oranges, and 
grapefruit, and add grape juice. Measure juice and add one 
third its weight in sugar. Bring juice and sugar to boiling point, 
cool, and bottle. Keep in refrigerator. Reduce with water at 
serving time. 

17 



18 ECONOMICAL COOKERY 

Capillaire 

7 pounds lump sugar 6 cups (Iw qts.) water 

2 eggs 4 tablespoons orange-flower water 

4 drops vanilla extract 

Put sugar into a saucepan, break in eggs with shells, stir in 
water gradually, set over fire and boil, take off scum until 
only a light froth rises. Strain, and when cool add orange- 
flower water and vanilla, bottle, and cork tight to keep. 

One wineglass of this in a tumbler of ice water is very refresh- 
ing. Slice of lemon, or orange, or pineapple may be added to it, 
also a glass of wine. 

Cherry Shrub 

2 quarts ripe cherries 8 cups (2 qts.) water 

4 cups (2 lbs.) sugar or honey 2 lemons 
1 orange 

Pit cherries and mash thoroughly. Bring sugar and water 
to boiling point and boil sirup eight minutes. Add cherries, 
lemon and orange juices. Strain and chill. 

Choca — A Combination of Chocolate and Coffee 

For Chocolate 

2 cups (1 pt.) milk 2 cups (1 pt.) cold water 

3 tablespoons chocolate, grated 

Mix milk and water and bring to a boil; add chocolate 
moistened with a little cold water and cook three to five minutes. 

For Coffee 
2 cups (1 pt.) strong clear coffee 2 cups (1 pt.) hot milk 

Put coffee and milk into a saucepan ; make very hot but do 
not boil. 

Pour both hot beverages slowly into hot vessel at the same 
time, holding each at an elevation of eighteen inches. Pour 
into hot cups, sweeten to taste, and serve at once with crackers 
or cakes. 



BEVERAGES 19 



Cider Cup 

4 cups (1 qt.) cider i lemon 

5 cup (1 gill) fruit juice i cup (2 ozs.) sugar or honey 

2 pint bottles soda water 

Mix cider with fruit juice, strained lemon juice, and sugar, and 
let stand on ice two or three hours. At serving time add one 
pint broken ice and soda. If liked, a little chopped mint may- 
be added. 

Cocoa 

4 cups (1 qt.) scalded milk | cup (2 ozs.) sugar 

4 tablespoons cocoa I teaspoon salt 

1 cup (^ pt.) boiling water 

In saucepan mix cocoa, sugar, and salt ; add gradually water 
and cook four minutes. Pour in milk and beat two minutes 
with egg beater. If liked, this cocoa may be served with 
whipped and sweetened cream flavored with vanilla extract. 

To Make Cocoa from Nibs. Slightly crush two ounces cocoa 
nibs and put them into a pitcher with four cups cold water. 
Cover and let stand overnight. Pour into a saucepan and 
simmer gently four hours. Add more water if necessary and 
strain when ready. Allow to cool, remove any fat from top, and 
reheat as required. Serve with milk and sugar if liked. 

For Iced Cocoa. To every two cups cocoa, add one half cup 
whipped cream. Beat it into cocoa, sweetened to taste, add 
one half teaspoon vanilla extract, and allow to stand until cold. 
Serve in glasses one third filled with crushed ice. 

Coffee 
Freshly ground coffee Water, boiling 

Use an earthenware or china pitcher and heat it in the oven. 
Put in one ounce of freshly roasted and freshly ground coffee 
for each pint of liquid desired, fill the pitcher one half full of 
boiling water, then stir thoroughly. Fill pitcher full with water 
and stir again. The stirring is most important, so as to extract 
the full strength from the coffee. Place in oven or on top of 



20 ECONOMICAL COOKERY 

range five minutes, then strain off grounds and serve with cream. 
Coffee is a much finer drink with cream than with milk, whether 
hot or cold. 

Another good way of making coffee is to stretch loosely over 
a pitcher a piece of muslin or cheesecloth, and put on it the 
coffee. Pour boiling water over it very gradually, letting the 
water in the kettle go on boiling while the other is dripping 
through the grounds, for only a little can be poured on at a time. 
Then when all has passed through, bring it nearly to boiling 
point before pouring it into the cups. 

A tiny pinch of salt will cause the grounds to settle almost at 
once if it is found necessary to '' clear " the coffee. Pouring 
from one pitcher to another has the same effect, but is apt to 
cool it, and coffee must be served hot. 

For Caf(§ au Lait use equal quantities of strong coffee and 
scalded milk, or two thirds milk to one third of coffee. A pinch 
of mustard added to the coffee before the water is poured on it 
brmgs out the flavor of the coffee. 

For Iced Coffee, allow caf6 au lait to become cold. Fill 
tumblers one half full of crushed ice; add sugar to taste and 
pour in coffee. Or, make strong boiled coffee, sweeten to taste, 
chill. When ready to serve, it may be diluted with milk, or it 
may be diluted with water, and served with cracked ice. 

Cream Nectar 

2 ounces tartaric acid 1 egg white, beaten 

2 pounds lump sugar 1 teaspoon lemon extract 

3 cups (H pts.) boiUng water 1 teaspoon orange extract 

Baking soda 

Dissolve tartaric acid and sugar in boiling water, then allow 
to simmer thirty minutes. When cold add egg white and extracts, 
and bottle. For a cooling drink put one half wineglass of nectar 
into a tumbler, fill three fourths full with ice water, and stir in a 
saltspoon of baking soda. 

Another Nectar is Made as Folloius. Wash and peel two 
lemons; pour four quarts boiling water over rinds and allow 
to cool. Add strained lemon juice, one half pound seeded and 



BEVERAGES 21 

chopped raisins, and one pound lump sugar. Cover and let 
preparation remain five days, stirring four times daily; then 
strain mto bottles. 

Delicious Chocolate 

4 cups (1 qt.) milk 2 egg whites 

2 squares (2 ozs.) bitter chocolate 2 bananas, mashed 

1 cup (^ lb.) sugar 2 tablespoons powdered sugar 

Heat milk to boiling pouit. Grate chocolate and mix with 
enough boiling water to make thin paste. Pour this into milk 
and add sugar. Keep very hot. 

Beat up whites to stiff froth, add bananas a little at a time, 
and powdered sugar. Fill hot cups three fourths full of chocolate 
and fill up with egg-white mixture. Serve at once, sufficient 
for six persons. 

Iced Chocolate is Refreshing. Grate two squares bitter 
chocolate, add sufficient cold water to cover and one third cup 
sugar; bring to boiling point and simmer five minutes, take 
from fire and cool. Add two cups milk and pour over finely 
chopped ice in tall glasses. If liked, chocolate may be topped 
with a spoonful of whipped and sweetened cream, flavored with 
one half teaspoon vanilla extract. 

Effervescing Fruit Drink 

Ripe peaches or apricots 1 ounce tartaric acid 

1 cup (I lb.) sugar or honey Baking soda 

Bruise sufficient peaches or apricots to make two cups of 
juice, pass through hot jelly bag to clear, boil with sugar to a 
sirup, add acid, bottle, and cork well. For a tumbler three 
parts full of water add two tablespoons of above sirup and a 
pinch of soda, stir, and drink while effervescing. 

Ginger Beer 

I5 pounds lump sugar U ounces whole ginger 

4 quarts (1 gal.) boiUng water 2 lemons 

I ounce cream of tartar 1 yeast cake 

2 tablespoons granulated sugar 



22 ECONOMICAL COOKERY 

Put into a large stone- ware jar the sugar, cream of tartar, 
ginger crushed small, rinds of lemons cut thin, strained juice of 
lemons, and boiling water. Stand until lukewarm and add 
yeast mixed with granulated sugar. Stir well, cover jar, and 
stand in a warm place twenty-four hours. Skim well, strain 
into another vessel, and bottle at once, using new corks, and 
tie down securely. In three or four days it will be ready for use. 

Ginger Wine 

Pour twelve pints boiling water over two tablespoons ginger 
extract, one teaspoon red pepper, one half ounce tartaric acid, 
one half ounce burnt sugar, and five pounds lump sugar. When 
cold put in slice toasted bread spread with one yeast cake, 
allow to stand overnight, remove bread, and put in stone jars. 
Allow to ferment three days, filling them as they flow over. 
Stand in a warm place three weeks, cork lightly at first, and 
lastly knock in corks tight. Allow to stand two months, then 
bottle carefully so as not to disturb the sediment. 

Ginger Beer Powder 

Put three fourths pound sugar, one and one half ounces 
tartaric acid, and one and one half ounces baking soda into 
a bowl and pound well together. Mix with them ten drops 
ginger extract, then store in a dry, well-corked bottle. 

Gingerade 

4 cups (2 lbs.) sugar 2 teaspoons ginger extract 

2 cups (1 pt.) water 1 teaspoon lemon extract 

I oimce citric acid 

Dissolve sugar in water and boil ten minutes. Take from 
fire, add extracts and acid. Strain into a pitcher and bottle 
when cold. 

Use a tablespoonful to a glassful of boiling water. 

Grated lemon rind can be substituted for lemon extract, and 
a little grated orange rind added to the boiling sirup is an im- 
provement. 



BEVERAGES 23 



Grapeade 

1 lemon 1 cup (^ pt.) grape juice 

2 oranges 1| cups (12 ozs.) sugar or honey 
1 banana Cold water 

Grate rinds and add strained juice of lemon and oranges. 
Mash banana and add it with grape juice, sugar, and enough 
water to make at least six glasses full. Strain, chill, and serve 
in dainty glasses. This is excellent when frozen with two stiffly 
beaten whites of eggs. 

Honey Beer 

2 gallons boiling water 4 cups (2 pts.) honey 

3 cups (1^ pts.) yeast 

Pour boiling water over honey, add yeast, and let stand thirty 
hours; strain, bottle, and cork tightly. The next day it will 
be ready for use. 

Another Method. Mix fourteen pounds honey with seven 
gallons water and one half pound hops, and boil gently one hour, 
strain into a clean cask; allow to stand overnight, then add 
two tablespoons yeast or one yeast cake dissolved with a little 
lul^ewarm water ; let this ferment ten days, then gradually stop 
by placing a piece of brown paper over hole, then lightly put 
in bung and knock it a little closer every second day until quite 
tight. Stand six weeks. While beer is working, add a little 
honey and water every morning to keep cask full. 

Hot Chocolate 

1 ounce (1 square) chocolate 1 cup (| pt.) boiling water 

2 tablespoons (1 oz.) sugar 3 cups (1| pts.) milk, scalded 
1 teaspoon cornstarch i teaspoon vanilla extract 

I teaspoon salt Marshmallows 

Melt chocolate, add sugar mixed with cornstarch, salt, and 
water; boil five minutes, stirring constantly, then add milk 
and vanilla. Beat well before serving. Place a marshmallow in 
each cup and pour over the chocolate. 



24 ECONOMICAL COOKERY 



Koumiss 



2 cups (1 pt.) buttermilk 8 cups (4 pts.) sweet milk 

6 pieces lump sugar 

Mix buttermilk, sweet milk, and sugar together. Pour the 
whole from one pitcher to another until sugar is thoroughly 
dissolved. It takes fifteen to twenty minutes. Cover with 
muslin or cheesecloth and allow to stand in a warm part of the 
kitchen twelve hours. Pour into pint bottles, tie down corks, 
and in four daj^s it is ready for use. The bottles should be 
left lying on their sides in a cool place. 

Another Method. Warm four cups milk to blood heat, add 
one tablespoon sugar, one fourth teaspoon salt, and one fourth 
yeast cake dissolved in a little lukewarm water. Bottle tightly 
at once. Stand the bottle in a warm place twelve hours, then 
place on ice twelve hours, when it is ready for serving. 

Do not allow milk to heat above 98° F., or 100° F. 

Lemonade 

3 lemons 4 cups (1 qt.) water, boiling 

1 cup (^ lb.) sugar 

Scrub lemons perfectly clean, then cut two thin slices from 
center of each and lay aside. Pare off some of the thin yellow 
rind from lemons and squeeze out all juice. Put juice, lemon 
rinds, and sugar in jar or bowl, and then add water. Stand 
until cold, chill, and when ready to serve, fill glasses one third 
full of chipped ice or cold water ; add lemonade and a slice of 
the cut lemon. 

If liked, a beaten white of egg may be added. 

Lemon Sirup 

2 pounds lump sugar | ounce citric acid 

1| cups (I pt.) water 4 lemons 

Boil sugar and water to thick sirup, add acid and strained 
lemon juice, and bottle. This sirup can be used for various 
iced drinks, or alone with plain or aerated water. 



BEVERAGES 25 

Making Tea 

Tea Water 

Tea making is an art, but one which may be easily acquired 
by observing the following rules : 

Do not use water which has boiled a long time in brewing tea. 

Do not use water which has not reached the boiling point. 

Do not allow the tea to brew for more than five minutes. 

Do not make tea in a cold teapot ; rinse with hot water before 
placing leaves in pot. 

Do not pour a second water over leaves when first brew is 
exhausted. 

Do not buy too cheap a quality of tea and expect perfect 
results. 

Always use a porcelain or earthenware teapot ; tea experts 
tell us that the fragrant leaf should never touch metal. Put 
in the tea in the proportion of one ounce to six or seven persons, 
or a teaspoonful for each person and a teaspoonful for the teapot. 
Pour on freshly boiling water and allow to stand for a few 
moments to draw. As to the kind of tea to be used, that must 
be left to one's personal preference. 

For Iced Tea. Make tea of rather stronger quality than usual ; 
pour from leaves, after standing five minutes, directly upon the 
cracked ice in glasses. Or serve in glasses with crushed ice 
and one slice lemon in each glass, or add a few whole cloves to 
hot tea, let stand two minutes, strain, allow to become cold, 
and serve in glasses with sugar to taste and cracked ice. 

Hardly any well-regulated household is without its afternoon 
tea apparatus. All sorts of novelties are on the market now 
for those who have taken up this pretty fad. The old-fashioned 
tea ball has been superseded by a new percolator in the form of a 
basket hung on a silver chain. The tea urn is being ousted by 
the Russian samovar, which is a metal utensil standing about 
two feet high. The urn is filled with water, which is heated by 
charcoal placed in a pipe, which passes through the urn, and 
which has a chimney attached. 

To Make Russian Tea. Pour just enough boiling water over 
three generous tablespoonfuls of English breakfast tea to cover 



26 ECONOMICAL COOKERY 

it. Let it stand a minute, then draw the water off. Now pour 
in two pints boiling water from the samovar. Let it steep four 
minutes. Serve in cups with thin shces of lemon and powdered 
sugar. 

Oatmeal and Cocoa Cooler 

I cup (4 ozs.) fine oatmeal ^ cup (4 ozs.) sugar or honey 

I cup (3 ozs.) cocoa 12 cups (3 qts.) boihng water 

1 teaspoon vanilla extract 

Mix oatmeal, cocoa, and sugar, add boiling water and stir 
well. Add vanilla and serve when very cold. 

Another Method. Put three fourths cup oatmeal, one fourth 
ounce powdered ginger, one fourth cup brown sugar or honey, 
grated rind and strained juice two lemons, and two quarts 
boiling water into a saucepan. Stir well, and boil five minutes, 
then leave to get cold. 

Orgeat Water 

^ pound sweet almonds | cup (1 gill) orange-flower water 

12 bitter almonds 4 cups (1 qt.) water 

^ cup (4 ozs.) sugar 

Blanch almonds and pound them, adding gradually orange- 
flower water, then add water and sugar and mix well. Strain 
and chill when ready to serve. 

Pineapple Lemonade 

1 large pineapple, grated 6 cups (3 pts.) water 

6 lemons 1 cup (i lb.) sugar or honey 

Bring water and sugar to boiling point and boil ten minutes, 
cool, add pineapple and strained lemon juice, and pour over 
cracked ice. More water and sugar may be used if desired. 

Prune Water 

^ pound prunes 1 lemon 

6 cups (3 pts.) water Sugar or honey to taste 

Peel lemon very thin, and put rinds and prunes into a saucepan 
with water, bring to a boil, and simmer forty minutes. Add 




Hot Chocolate. Page 23. 



V 



\ : 



m 




-• -==5-.v_.(l. 



'-7' 






CoFFJiE FOR Breakfast. Fage 19. 




Tea with a Russian Samovar. Page 25. 



I 




Graham Biscuits. Page SI 



BEVERAGES 27 

strained lemon juice, and sugar or honey to taste. Strain into 
a cold pitcher and serve very cold. This drink is very wholesome 
for children and does not require much sugar or honey. 

Apple Water 

Slice six large apples without peeling or coring them, and put 
them into a pan with six cups water and two tablespoons sugar 
or honey. Bring to boiling point and boil ten minutes. Add 
juice one lemon, and when quite cold, strain and use. 

Raspberry Vinegar 

24 cups (6 qts.) raspberries 4 cups (1 qt.) vinegar 

Sugar 

Put three quarts of the raspberries into a large bowl or jar 
and over them pour vinegar ; allow to stand twenty-four hours. 
Press and strain out liquor, add remainder of raspberries, and 
stand again twenty-four hours. Strain all juice thoroughly, 
and to each pint add one pound heated sugar and boil twenty 
minutes. Seal and cork in bottles when cold. To use the rasp- 
berry vinegar, dilute it with three parts water. 

Tea Punch 

Tea 1 lemon 

Sugar 1 cup (| pt.) orange or fruit juice 

Make strong infusion of English breakfast tea, allowing two 
teaspoons to each cup boiling water. For four cups tea, add 
one half cup sugar with two tablespoons water and cook until 
it spins a thread, or reaches 218° F. on candy thermometer. 
Remove from fire and add strained juice of lemon. When chilled, 
add orange or fruit juice. 

There is no precise rule for making punch, no two persons 
agreeing in the exact proportions of the ingredients. The great 
secret is that the mixture should be so happily compounded 
that nothing predominates. 



CHAPTER IV 
BREAD, BISCUITS, MUFFINS, ROLLS, ETC. 

" I won't quarrel with my bread and butter." 

In selecting flour choose not onlj^ that which is rich in albumi- 
noids, but see that the gluten is of first quality. To test, 
make a piece of dough from one half a cup of flour and sufficient 
water to moisten ; knead and work well ; form it into a biscuit ; 
then quickly break it into halves. If strong, it will break with a 
crack ; and this is good flour. If soft, poor flour, it will stretch 
apart and break without a sound. If it is impossible to make a 
ball of dough to test the flour, take a portion of flour in the 
hand and press it firmly; if, when the hand is opened, it falls 
apart, is rather '^ grainy " or granulated, and does not pack, it is 
good bread, muffin, or biscuit flour. 

A rich creamy yellow flour should be used for bread, rolls, and 
biscuits of all kinds, and a lighter tint for pastry. Avoid flours 
of a grayish tint ; they are poor and cheap. 

Genuine pastry flour is a pale yellowish-white, fine and starchy, 
easily retaining the form of a hand upon pressure. In making 
fine pastries and cakes, the best results are obtained from real 
pastry flour. It is cheaper to make bread than to purchase it. 
The prime object in bread making is to secure a nutritious, 
attractive and palatable form of food. Various changes are 
wrought in converting wheat into flour and flour into bread. 
The process of bread making is accomplished by the addition of 
a liquid — water, milk, or milk and water — and yeast to the 
flour. Usually salt, sugar, and fat are added also. The flour, 
by the addition of the liquid, is converted into dough. Yeast 
is a vegetable organism, a mysterious little plant, which lives 

28 



BKEAD, BISCUITS, MUFFINS, ROLLS, ETC. 29 

and grows in the presence of suitable nourishment, moisture, 
and moderate heat ; extreme heat kills it. When yeast is added 
to dough, the cells are separated and distributed throughout 
the mass. The yeasts multiply and grow, and in the process of 
their growth some of the starch of the flour is changed into 
sugar; alcohol and carbon dioxide are formed from the sugar. 
This gas (carbon dioxide), forms bubbles in the dough, thus 
increasing it in size and making it light and spongy. This 
growth, and consequent formation of gas, must be checked at 
the right time, or the dough will become too light, and later sour. 

When the loaf is baked, the heat of the oven causes the gas 
to expand, the alcohol to be driven off, the proteins to set and 
coagulate, forming a framework for the loaf. Some of the 
starch is changed into dextrin. Thus the crust is formed. It is 
the dextrin which gives the crust its glazed appearance. 

The oven temperature and time required for baking depend 
upon the size of the loaf. A loaf should begin to brown after 
it has been in the oven fifteen minutes ; continue browning for 
twenty minutes, the heat then being reduced for a final fifteen 
minutes. Small loaves can be more perfectly baked, and are 
therefore preferable to large. If the loaf, on being knocked, 
sounds hollow, it is said to be well baked ; if the sound is heavy 
and leaden, it is underbaked. A crust that is elastic and springs 
back after pressure is considered another sign of well-baked 
bread. 

There are several excellent bread mixers on the market. 

Baking Powder Biscuits 

3 tablespoons (1| ozs.) lard, or 1 teaspoon salt 

butter substitute 1 teaspoon sugar 

2 cups (^ lb.) flour 4 teaspoons baking powder 

2 cups (^ lb.) barley flour 1^ cups (f pt.) water 

Put lard into pan in which you intend to bake biscuits and 
set on stove to heat. Into a bowl sift flours, salt, sugar, and 
baking powder. Make well in center of flour, pour in water and 
hot lard, and work flour in gradually. Mix to soft dough, make 
into biscuits without rolling, place in the greased tin, and bake 
in hot oven ten to twelve minutes. 



30 ECONOMICAL COOKERY 

Another Method. Into a bowl sift one cup flour, one cup 
barley flour, four teaspoons baking powder, one teaspoon sugar, 
and half a teaspoon salt; add three tablespoons butter sub- 
stitute, cut and rub it into dry ingredients, and add gradually 
three fourths cup milk. The dough should be as soft as can be 
handled without sticking. Turn out on a floured baking board, 
roll or pat lightly until three fourths of an inch thick, and cut 
with a floured biscuit cutter. Lay on greased tins and bake in 
hot oven for twelve to fifteen minutes. 

Boston Brown Bread 

1 cup (6 ozs.) corn meal f teaspoon soda 

2 cups (10 ozs.) graham flour 1^ teaspoons salt 

I cup (1^ ozs.) brown sugar f cup (10| ozs.) molasses 

11 cups (3 J gills) cold water 

Mix dry ingredients, add molasses and water, and stir all 
together until thoroughly mixed. Pour into greased mold, 
cover with lid, and steam steadily eight hours. 

This mixture may be steamed in two baking-powder cans. 

Another Method. Mix one cup each flour and corn meal, add 
two cups Graham flour, two teaspoons baking powder, one 
teaspoon salt, one and one half teaspoons soda, one cup sour 
milk, one cup molasses, and one well-beaten egg. Beat well, 
turn into greased mold, cover, and steam steadily four hours. 
Bake twenty minutes. 

Bran Muffins 

1 cup (6 ozs.) brown sugar 1 cup (4 ozs.) potato or corn flour 

1 tablespoon (| oz.) butter or lard 1 teaspoon baking powder 

2 eggs, beaten J teaspoon salt 

I cup (1 gill) milk ^ cup (2 ozs.) chopped nut meats 

1 cup (3 ozs.) bran ^ cup (3 ozs.) Sultana raisins 

Cream shortening, and add eggs, milk, bran, flour sifted with 
baking powder and salt ; add nuts and raisins. Mix well and 
divide into twelve greased and floured muffin pans, and bake in 
moderate oven fifteen minutes. 

Another Method. Mix two cups bran, three fourths cup flour, 
and one and one half tablespoons sugar in a bowl. Add one 
egg well beaten, one and one half cups sour milk, and one tea- 



BREAD, BISCUITS, MUFFINS, ROLLS, ETC. 31 

spoon soda. Stir well and drop into greased and floured muffin 
pans, and bake thirty minutes in hot oven. 

These muffins are good for constipation if eaten daily. Few 
housekeepers appreciate the value of bran, either uncooked or 
in bread and gems or buns. Bran is highly laxative, and in 
nine out of ten families there is a need for laxative food. Seden- 
tarj^ habits and meat eating are constipation causes ; when this 
trouble exists, two or thi-ee tablespoons of sterilized bran should 
be eaten at least once a day. 

Bread Griddlecakes 

2 cups (8 ozs.) stale bread, diced § teaspoon salt 

1 cup (4 ozs.) flour or potato flour 1 tablespoon (^ oz.) lard, melted 

2 teaspoons baking powder 1 egg, beaten 

1 tablespoon (| oz.) sugar 1| cups (| pt.) milk 

1 cup (^ pt.) water 

Cover bread with cold water and soak till soft ; then squeeze 
out all superfluous water. Put bread into a bowl, add flour, 
baking powder, sugar, salt, lard, egg, mill^, and water. Mix 
and allow to stand ten minutes. Drop in spoonfuls on 
hot greased griddle ; when full of bubbles, turn, and when cooked 
on both sides serve hot. 

Breakfast Puffs without Eggs 

2 cups (^ lb.) flour or Graham flour 1 cup (| pt.) cold water 

1 cup (I pt.) milk 

Sift flour into a bowl and gradually add water and milk and beat 
together ten minutes with egg beater ; divide into well-greased 
gem pans and bake in moderate oven fifteen to twenty minutes. 

Do not use salt. Serve hot with butter or sirup. 

Stale puffs or rolls hollowed out, heated, and filled with 
creamed left-over meat, fish, or chicken make a very good dish 
for breakfast or luncheon. 

Brown Bread 

1 cake yeast 2 tablespoons (1 oz.) butter or 
4 tablespoons brown sugar, mo- lard, melted 

lasses, or sirup 3 teaspoons salt 

1 cup (I pt.) lukewarm water If cups (7 ozs.) flour 

1 cup (I pt.) scalded milk, cooled 5 cups (1 j lbs.) whole wheat flour 



32 ECONOMICAL COOKERY 

Mix yeast with sugar, add water, milk, butter, salt, and 
flours gradually. Turn out on to baking board and knead 
thoroughly. The dough should be a soft one. Allow to rise 
until double in bulk, turn out and divide into two loaves, place 
in well-greased bread pans, and allow to rise until light. Brush 
over with hot milk or water and bake in moderate oven one hour. 

Whole wheat flour is of a dark brown color, rather coarse, and 
should be free from bran ; in other words the outside coat of 
bran is peeled off, and the remaining portion of the grain ground 
into flour. This flour contains albuminoids and the nutritive 
mineral matter. While the bran which is peeled off may contain 
some mineral matter, its greater portion is woody fiber, which is 
indigestible ; consequently it is unfit for food, and should not be 
taken by persons who have a weak digestion, or whose intestines 
are easily irritated. This flour contains all the necessary ele- 
ments for the building of bone and teeth structure. It supplies 
the alkaline phosphates which contribute to the formation of 
the required salts in the body. 

Buckwheat Gems 

2 cups ( 12 ozs.) buckwheat flour 3 tablespoons soy bean flour 

^ teaspoon salt 1^ cups (f pt.) milk 

4 teaspoons baking powder 3 tablespoons honey or sirup 

1 egg, beaten 1 tablespoon (| oz.) butter sub- 

stitute, melted 

Mix flours, salt, and baking powder, add egg, milk, honey or 
sirup, and butter substitute. Turn into greased and floured 
gem pans and bake forty minutes in moderate oven. 

Cocoa Mufllns 

2 cups (^ lb.) flour or Graham flour 1 tablespoon (| oz.) butter 
2 teaspoons baking powder I cup (4 ozs.) sugar or honey 
2 teaspoons cocoa 1 egg, beaten 

I teaspoon salt 1 teaspoon vanilla extract 

I cup (1 gill) water 

Sift together flour, baking powder, cocoa, and salt. Cream 
butter and sugar, add egg, vanilla, water, and flour mixture. 
Beat until light and divide into eight greased and floured gem 
pans and bake in quick oven ten to twelve minutes. 



BREAD, BISCUITS, MUFFINS, ROLLS, ETC. 33 

Most Graham flour sold in our markets is composed of a little 
white flour and a goodly quantity of bran, mixed with a certain 
proportion of " shorts 'V' middlings ", or fine farina, whichever 
you choose to call them, as they all mean one and the same thing. 

Cocoa Gems 

1 cup (4 ozs.) sugar or honey 1 cup (4 ozs.) flour 

2 tablespoons (1 oz.) butter ^ cup (2 ozs.) barley flour 
substitute 2 teaspoons cocoa 

1 cup (1 gill) water 1 teaspoon baking powder 

2 eggs, beaten 

Cream sugar and butter substitute together, add water and 
flours, and beat well. Now add cocoa, baking powder, and eggs, 
mix well and divide into greased gem pans. Bake in hot oven 
twenty minutes. 

Corn Bread 

2 cups (12 ozs.) yellow corn meal 2 tablespoons brown sugar 

I cup (2 ozs.) flour 2 tablespoons (1 oz.) butter sub- 

I cup (2 ozs.) barley flour stitute 

1 teaspoon salt 1 egg, beaten 

2 teaspoons baking powder 1 cup (^ pt.) milk 

Into a bowl put meal, flours, salt, baking powder, and sugar, 
rub in butter substitute with finger tips, add egg and milk. 
Mix well and turn into a greased large square pan. Spread a 
little butter substitute evenly over the top and bake in moderate 
oven twenty minutes. 

Another Method. Put one cup corn meal into a bowl, add two 
cups flour, one cup barley flour, and one teaspoon salt. Mix 
one yeast cake with one cup lukewarm water and one tablespoon 
sirup. Combine mixtures, cover, and allow to rise. When 
light knead down, form into loaves, allow to rise again, and bake 
in moderate oven. 

Corn Meal Doughnuts 

1 cup (6 ozs.) corn meal 1 tablespoon (| oz.) butter 

3 cups (f lb.) barley or corn substitute 

flour 4 tablespoons (2 ozs.) grated 

I teaspoon salt maple sugar 

3 teaspoons baking powder 2 eggs, beaten 

1 cup (^ pt.) milk 



34 ECONOMICAL COOKERY 

Into a bowl sift corn meal, flour, salt, and baking powder. 
Beat butter substitute and sugar until creamy, add eggs, and 
beat three minutes ; add milk and meal mixture. Turn out on 
floured baking board and roll out one fourth inch thick; cut 
with a floured doughnut cutter and fry in plenty smoking hot 
fat. Drain and sprinkle with powdered sugar. 

Another Method. Beat one cup sugar with two eggs until 
light, add one tablespoon melted butter, one cup milk, and two 
cups flour sifted with one half cup soy bean flour, three teaspoons 
baking powder, one half teaspoon each powdered nutmeg and 
salt. Mix well and drop by teaspoonfuls into smoking hot fat. 
Fry and drain on paper. 

Two tablespoons corn meal may be adc^d if liked. 

Com Meal Rolls 

1^ cups (6 ozs.) flour 1 teaspoon salt 

1 cup (4 1 ozs.) corn meal 2 tablespoons (1 oz.) shortening 
4 teaspoons baking powder 1 egg, beaten 

2 teaspoons sugar I cup (1| gills) milk 

Into a bowl sift flour, corn meal, baking powder, sugar, and 
salt, cut and rub in shortening, add egg and milk. Mix to a 
soft dough, turn out on floured board, roll out one half inch, and 
cut with a round cutter. Put a tiny piece of butter on each 
round, wet edges, and fold over so that edges meet. Brush over 
with milk ; place on greased tins and bake in a hot oven twelve 
to fifteen minutes. Sufficient for fifteen rolls. 

Fairy Corn Bread 

1| cups (9 ozs.) corn meal ^ teaspoon salt 

I cup (2 ozs.) flour or barley 1 egg, beaten 

flour 2 tablespoons (1 oz.) shortening, 

2^ teaspoons baking powder melted 

f cup (1| giUs) milk 

Sift corn meal, flour, baking powder, and salt into a bowl, 
add egg, shortening, and milk. Mix well and turn into a large, 
well-greased shallow pan, spreading thin with a knife or spoon. 
It should be barely one fourth of an inch thick and will come 
out of the oven crisp and delicious. Bake in a moderately hot 
oven fifteen minutes. 




Brown Bread. Page 31. 




Kaimn Bread. Faye 




Bread Cutters. 




AVhole \yHEAT Ctems. Pa(je 41- 



BREAD, BISCUITS, MUFFINS, ROLLS, ETC. 35 

Ginger Pancakes 

2 tablespoons flour Pinch salt 

1 egg h teaspoon powdered ginger 

^ cup (1 gill) milk Lemon juice 

Sugar 

Beat all the ingredients well together five minutes. Have 
ready some hot fat in a frying pan, and put mixture into it, 
a tablespoonful at a time. Fry quickly and turn when brown. 
The proper way to do this is to toss the pancake by shaking the 
pan, not to turn the pancake with a knife, though a novice will 
probably require to do it this way at first. When the second 
side is brown, remove pancake from pan and cook another, 
keeping the first hot meantime. When ready to serve roll 
each up, squeeze over a little lemon juice, and sprinkle with 
sugar. Serve with lemon and sugar. 

Pancakes without Eggs 

Sift two tablespoons flour and a pinch of salt into a bowl, and 
mix slowly into a batter with one half cup milk, add one table- 
spoon brown sugar, and a little powdered nutmeg. This batter 
must be beaten fifteen minutes, and each pancake will take about 
ten minutes to cook. If you have a large frying pan, two or 
three cakes can be cooked at the same time. These are delicious 
if eaten with brown sugar and butter. 

Savory Pancakes 

Few people realize how good savory pancakes are. They 
are easily made, of course substituting seasonings for sugar and 
flavoring, and stirring into batter chopped parsley, mushrooms, 
ham, or grated cheese as preferred ; these can be spread when 
ready with any mixture of cooked fish, meat, or chicken, and 
served dusted with salt and paprika, or with any gravy or sauce 
to taste. 

Graham Biscuits 

2 cups (10 ozs.) Graham flour 2 tablespoons (1 oz.) butter sub- 

3 teaspoons baking powder stitute 

1 teaspoon salt 1 cup (| pt.) milk or water 



36 ECONOMICAL COOKERY 

Put Graham flour into a bowl, add baking powder and salt. 
Cut and rub butter substitute into flour. Mix milk or water 
into flour with a knife, adding milk gradually. Turn out on 
to floured board and roll until one half inch thick. Cut in 
small rounds and bake in hot oven ten minutes. 

Graham Wafers 

2 cups (12 ozs.) brown sugar 1 cup (l pt.) milk 

1 cup (8 ozs.) butter substitute 2 teaspoons soda 

2 eggs beaten 1 teaspoon salt 

6| cups (I5 lbs.) Graham flour 

Cream sugar and butter substitute together, add eggs, milk, 
soda, salt, and flour. If not stiff add more flour. Turn out 
on floured baking board and roll out very thin, using white flour 
on board. Cut out with square cutter, lay on greased tins 
and bake in moderate oven ten minutes. 

Health Bread 

4 cups (12 ozs.) bran 1^ teaspoons baking powder 

^ cup (2 ozs.) flour or potato flour 1 teaspoon soda 
1 cup (4 ozs.) barley flour 1 tablespoon salt 

1 cup (6 ozs.) corn meal 2 cups (1 pt.) milk 

1 cup (I pt.) molasses 

Mix dry ingredients thoroughly, add milk and molasses. Stir 
well, turn into floured and greased pan, cover with a greased 
paper, steam two hours, then bake one hour. 

Liberty Bread 

1 yeast cake 1 cup (^ pt.) cooked oatmeal 

1 cup (I pt.) lukewarm water 1 cup (| pt.) mashed potatoes 

1 teaspoon salt 1 cup (4 ozs.) barley flour 

1 cup (6 ozs.) corn meal 1 cup (4 ozs.) flour 

Dissolve yeast in water, add salt, corn meal, oatmeal, potatoes, 
and flours. Turn out on to floured board and knead until 
bubbles begin to show on the dough. Allow to rise until doubled 
in bulk, knead down again, divide into greased pans, allow to 
rise until it again doubles in bulk, and bake in moderate oven 
fifty minutes. 



BREAD, BISCUITS, MUFFINS, ROLLS, ETC. 37 

Oatmeal Bread 

2 cups (1 pt.) rolled oats 1 tablespoon salt 

2 tablespoons (I oz.) butter sub- 1 yeast cake, or | cup liquid 

stitute yeast 

I cup (1^ gills) molasses 1 cup (4 ozs.) barley flour 

4 cups (1 qt.) boiling water Wheat flour 

Into a bowl put oats, add butter substitute, molasses, boiling 
water, and salt ; let stand until lukewarm, then add yeast cake 
dissolved in a little lukewarm water, barley flour, and seven 
cups wheat flour. Mix well and allow to rise until light. Add 
sufficient flour to knead, and knead well on floured board, divide 
into three greased bread pans, allow to rise until light, and 
bake one and one half hours in moderate oven. 

This bread is excellent. 

Raisin Bread 

i cup (1 gill) milk 2 cups (^ lb.) flour 

^ cup (1 gill) water 1 cup (5 ozs.) Graham flour 

1 teaspoon salt 1 yeast cake 

1 tablespoon sirup 2 cups (12 ozs.) seedless raisins 

4 tablespoons tepid water 

Put milk and water into warm bowl and add salt, sirup, yeast 
cake dissolved in tepid water ; then add flours, mix thoroughly, 
and knead to smooth dough. Let rise to double in bulk, beat 
in raisins, shape, and place in well-greased bread pan, allow to 
rise again, brush over with milk, and bake in hot oven one hour. 

The raisin is one of the most important of the energy-producing 
foods of man because of its high percentage of carbohydrates. 
Its protein value is 2.6 per cent., and the percentage of its 
acids, which are important in the process of digestion and 
assimilation, 2.7 per cent. The value of the raisin is by no 
means confined to its percentage of carbohydrates, for analysis 
of the ash shows that it is rich in many of the elements essential 
to health. 

The following comparison of food values is supplied by the 
U.S. Department of Agriculture: 

1 lb. of Raisins equals 1| lbs. of beef. 

1 lb. of Raisins equals 4f lbs. of fish. 



38 ECONOMICAL COOKERY 

1 lb. of Raisins equals 1 lb. of bread. 
1 lb. of Raisins equals 4j lbs. of potatoes. 
1 lb. of Raisins equals 4 lbs. of milk. 
1 lb. of Raisins equals 2 lbs. of eggs. 
1 lb. of Raisins equals 6 lbs. of apples. 
1 lb. of Raisins equals 5 lbs. of bananas. 

Rye Griddlecakes 

2 cups (11 ozs.) ryo flour ^ teaspoon salt 

1 cup (5 ozs.) Graham flour 4 teaspoons baking powder 

1 cup (4 ozs.) flour 1 egg 

1 tablespoon (f oz.) sugar 2 cups (1 pt.) milk 

Sift together flours, sugar, salt, and baking powder. Add 
egg and milk mixed to a smooth batter. Bake brown on both 
sides on a hot greased griddle and serve with sirup or butter. 

Sour Cream Waffles 

1 cup (§ pt.) sour cream 1 egg, beaten 

1 teaspoon soda 1 cup (4 ozs.) whole wheat flour 
^ teaspoon salt 1 cup (4 ozs.) flour 

2 teaspoons sugar f cup (1^ gills) milk 

1 teaspoon baking powder 

Pour cream into a bowl, add soda, salt, sugar, egg, flours sifted 
with baking powder and milk. Mix well, and bake on well- 
greased wafl3e iron. Serve with sirup or honey. 

Southern Waffles 

2 cups (Hb.) flour 2 tablespoons (1 oz.) butter 
1 cup (l lb.) barley flour substitute, melted 

1 teaspoon salt 2 eggs, beaten 

2 teaspoons baking powder 2 cups (1 pt.) milk 

Maple sirup or powdered sugar 

Into a bowl sift flours, salt, and baking powder, add butter 
substitute, eggs, and milk, and mix carefully. Cook on well- 
heated and greased waffle irons, and serve with maple sirup or 
powdered sugar. 



BKEAD, BISCUITS, MUFFINS, ROLLS, ETC. 39 



Nut and Raisin Brown Bread 

1 teaspoon soda 1 cup (4 ozs.) chopped English 
^ cup (7 ozs.) molasses walnut meats 

2 cups (1 pt.) sweet or sour milk 1 cup (4 ozs.) flour or barley 
^ cup (3 ozs.) brown sugar flour 

1 teaspoon salt 2 cups (10 ozs.) Graham flour 

1 cup (I lb.) seeded raisins 

Stir soda into molasses, add milk, sugar, salt, nuts, flours, and 
raisins. Mix and turn into greased and floured narrow pan, and 
bake one horn- in moderate oven. 



Nut Bread 

2 cups (1 11^) ^ouT I cup (4 ozs.) grated maple sugar 

2 cups (12 ozs.) buckwheat flour 1 egg, beaten 
4 teaspoons baking powder 2 cups (1 pt.) milk 

1 teaspoon salt 1 cup (4 ozs.) chopped English 

walnut meats 

Into a bowl sift flours, baking powder, salt, and sugar, add egg, 
milk, and nuts. Mix well, divide into two greased and floured 
cake tins, allow to rise twenty minutes, then bake in moderate 
oven fifty minutes. 

When sliced thin, buttered, and made into sandwiches, 
this bread is dehcious for afternoon tea. 

When using buckwheat flour in bread recipes, use the plain 
buckwheat flour, not self-rising buckwheat flour. 

Pulled Bread 

New loaves bread 

Remove crusts from bread and pull out pieces of the crumb 
with two forks. Place these pieces on a baking tin and bake in 
moderate oven until they are crisp and biscuit-colored. These 
are good with coffee, chocolate, soups, or cheese. The dried 
pieces keep well in an air-tight tin. The crumb of fresh biscuits 
left over can be treated in the same way. They should be 
heated in the oven when served. 



40 ECONOMICAL COOKERY 

Raisin Scones 

2 cups (I lb.) flour 6 tablespoons (3 ozs.) sugar or honey 

1 cup (4 ozs.) barley flour ^ cup (3 ozs.) Sultana raisins 

i teaspoon salt 1 teaspoon grated lemon rind 

4 teaspoons baking powder 2 eggs, beaten 

I cup (4 ozs.) butter or lard f cup (l^ gills) milk 

Into a bowl .-ift flours, salt, and baking powder, cut and rub 
in butter or lard, add sugar, raisins, rind, eggs, and milk. Mix 
and turn out on to a floured baking board, divide into three pieces, 
make each portion into a smooth round, roll out and cut into four 
scones. Lay on greased tins, brush over with a little milk, and 
bake in a moderate oven for twelve to fifteen minutes. 

Rye Bread 

Lukewarm water 1 1 teaspoons salt 

1 teaspoon sugar 2 teaspoons caraway seeds 

1 yeast cake Rye flour 

In one fourth cup lukewarm water dissolve sugar and yeast 
cake, turn into a bowl, add pint lukewarm water, salt, caraway 
seeds, and two cups rye flour. Stir well and let rise in warm 
place two hours. It should be full of bubbles when ready. Now 
add sufficient rye flour — about four and one half cups — to 
make stiff dough, work well ten minutes, and again let rise two 
hours. Turn out on to floured board and knead well. Divide 
into two loaves, place in greased pans, and allow to rise until they 
begin to crack on surface, brush over with cold water, and put in 
oven. Bake one hour and do not open door until bread has 
been in ten minutes. The oven should be very hot at first. 
Cover bread with greased paper as soon as it is brown on top. 

Another Method. Scald three fourths pint milk in a double 
boiler, add two tablespoons butter substitute, one third cup 
sirup, and one teaspoon salt. When lukewarm add one yeast 
cake dissolved in one fourth cup lukewarm water, and mix with 
one cup buckwheat flour and two cups flour. Allow to rise until 
light, then add enough rye meal to make stiff dough and knead 
five minutes. Cover and allow to rise overnight and early in 
the morning cut dough down, knead it a little, and place it in a 



BREAD, BISCUITS, MUFFINS, ROLLS, ETC. 41 

large greased round pan. Let dough rise until doubled in size ; 
brush over with water and bake in moderate oven one hour. 

Tea Scones 

2 eggs, beaten ^ cup (3 ozs.) brown sugar 

i teaspoon salt 1 cup (§ pt.) milk 

2 tablespoons (1 oz.) butter 4 teaspoons baking powder 

substitute 2 cups (Hb.) flour 

2 cups (^ lb.) barley flour 

Beat eggs with salt. Cream butter substitute and sugar 
together, add eggs and milk. Sift baking powder with flours 
and stir in one half and beat well; then stir in rest of flour. 
Turn on to a floured baking board and roll to one half inch in 
thickness, cut in triangles, brush tops with milk, put on greased 
pans, and bake in a hot oven ten to twelve minutes. 

Wheat Bread 

1 yeast cake 2 tablespoons (1 oz.) butter sub- 

3 cups (1| pts.) lukewarm water stitute, melted 

10| cups (2 lbs. 10 ozs.) flour 2 tablespoons (1 oz.) sugar 

1 tablespoon salt 

Dissolve yeast in one and one half cups of the water, add two 
and one half cups of the flour, and beat well. Allow to rise 
until top of batter is covered with large bubbles, then add re- 
mainder of flour, remainder of water, butter substitute, sugar, 
and salt. Knead well on a lightly floured board, allow to rise 
until it doubles its bulk, and divide into two greased bread 
pans ; let rise again, brush over with warm milk, and bake in 
moderate oven one hour. 

Whole Wheat Gems 

i cup (2 ozs.) drippings 1 teaspoon soda 

I cup (4 1 ozs.) brown sugar 1 teaspoon salt 

1 egg ^ cup (2 ozs.) flour 

1^ cups (f pt.) buttermilk or sour 1| cups (6 ozs.) whole wheat 
milk flour 

Cream drippings and sugar, break in egg and beat well, add 
soda dissolved in milk, add salt sifted with white flour, and stir 



42 ECONOMICAL COOKERY 

in whole wheat flour. Mix well and divide into twelve greased 
and floured muffin or gem tins and bake in hot oven fifteen 
minutes. Serve hot or cold. 



Virginia Corn Bread 

2 cups (12 ozs.) corn meal 1 cup (2 pt.) milk 

1 teaspoon salt 2 eggs, beaten 

2 cups (1 pt.) boihng water 1 tablespoon (^ oz.) lard, melted 

4 teaspoons baking powder 

Into a bowl sift corn meal and salt, add water, milk, eggs, lard, 
and baking powder. Mix well and turn into a well-greased 
pan and bake in moderate oven forty minutes. 



CHAPTER V 
CEREALS 

" The more the fire eats starch, the less we have to eat it/' 

In considering cereals one rarely thinks of them as seeds or 
fruits of grasses, but such they are. In these seeds, cultivated 
for food supply, are secured the various nutritive ingredients ; 
and when reduced to a form readily digestible, which means 
thoroughly cooked, and used with milk, cream, butter, cheese 
or eggs, they form a perfect diet. 

Cereals include oats, wheat, rye, barley, corn, rice, and buck- 
wheat. Hominy, samp, and farina are unfamiliar cereals which 
should be more often served. The first is a fine grain 
made from white corn. Samp is also made from corn, but 
coarsely broken. Farina is a meal composed of wheat and corn. 

The necessity of modern conditions among people has produced 
a variety of patented preparations, partially or wholly cooked 
or prepared in such a maimer that the shortest possible time is re- 
quired for their serving. Some are the transposition of the whole 
wheat into shreds, others are granular preparations, while still 
others are in the form of flakes. Then there are the unnumbered 
sorts of biscuits and cakes made from cereals, thoroughly cooked ; 
and so the housewife is presented with the entire grain in a more 
digestible form for food than can be produced by the average 
cook. 

When unpatented cereals are cooked, a rehable rule is that 
the coarser the grain the more water will be required and the 
longer will be the time of cooking. Whole grains are much 
improved by soaking in cold water to soften before cooking. 
Finely ground preparations, such as corn meal, ground rice, 
etc., should be mixed with cold water first to prevent the forma- 

43 



44 ECONOMICAL COOKERY 

tion of lumps, while flaked preparations must be sprinkled 
through the fingers into boiling water, one teaspoon of salt 
being used for every four cups of water. Scotch oatmeal needs 
four times its bulk of water, cracked wheat requires four and 
one half times its bulk, while rolled grains require but twice 
their bulk. The uncrushed oatmeal and cracked wheat require 
long cooking, and even the rolled cereals are not injured by 
cooking longer than directions call for. All starches must be 
thoroughly cooked. 

Cereal breakfast foods of different kinds are used to a greater 
or less extent in the preparation of made dishes. Thus, a 
steamed fruit pudding may be made with oatmeal, and very 
dainty little cakes can be made from some of the dry flaked 
cereals. Fried hominy and fried corn meal mush are standard 
foods sometimes served with fried chicken and some other 
dishes, and boiled rice is a common substitute for potatoes or 
other starchy foods. Cereals should be bought in small quanti- 
ties, and kept in glass jars, tightly covered and labeled. 

Arrowroot Porridge 

1 teaspoon arrowTOot Pinch salt 

1 cup (^ pt.) boiUng water 1 cup (| pt.) milk 

2 teaspoons sugar or honey 

Mix arrowroot into a smooth paste with a little cold water 
and add it, with salt, to water. Stir constantly until it becomes 
clear. Pour in milk, add sugar or honey, and boil fifteen 
minutes. Keep stirring all the time and serve hot. 

Barley and Prunes 

1 cup (^ pt.) barley 1 teaspoon salt 

4 cups (1 qt.) water 24 prunes, stoned 

1 tablespoon (| oz.) sugar or honey 

Wash barley, cover it with cold water, bring to the boil, and 
drain well. Put it into a saucepan with the quart of water and 
salt. Bring slowly to boiling point, then simmer two and one 
half hours. 

Wash prunes, cover with cold water, and soak two hours. 
One hour before barley is ready add prunes and water in which 



CEREALS 45 

they were soaked. Also add sugar or honey. If barley is too 
thick add a little more water. 
Serve with milk or cream. 

Boiled Hominy 

1 cup (^ pt.) coarse hominy 10 cups (5 pts.) boiling water 

2 teaspoons salt 



Stir hominy and salt into water, and cook eight to ten hours, 
or, soak hominy overnight and boil two hours. Serve with 
milk. Cook one cup fine hominy in six cups boiling water, 
add salt to taste, stirring occasionally, one and one half hours. 
Serve with milk, or with maple sirup. 

Fried Hominy 

Take left-over cold hominy and cut it in slices above three 
fourths of an inch thick. Flour them well on both sides. Melt 
some butter substitute in a small saucepan, put in a few slices 
of hominy at a time and fry until browned on both sides. Drain 
and serve hot. Fried hominy may be served either as a separate 
course or as an accompaniment to cooked kidneys, or fish, etc. 
The slices may be brushed over with milk or egg and tossed in 
corn meal or bread crumbs if preferred. 

Another Method. Grease fireproof dish, put in layer of cooked 
hominy, then layer of minced steak, season with salt and pepper, 
add one tablespoon tomato catchup, or chopped tomato will 
do; make alternate layers until dish is full, bake one hour. 
Serve hot. Cooked macaroni or spaghetti may be used in 
place of hominy. 

Boiled Rice 

1 cup (I lb.) rice 4 cups (1 qt.) boiUng water 

1 teaspoon salt 

Sprinkle rice and salt into water, and cook it at a gallop till 
grains are tender. Drain it, saving water for soup. Hold it in 
a colander under cold tap, and let cold water flow freely on it 
just for a minute. Then put it back into pan, and set it at the 



46 ECONOMICAL COOKERY 

side of fire in a gentle heat, so that it may warm up again, 
shaking pan every now and then to keep grains from sticking 
to the bottom. 

Do not let colander stay under tap more than a minute. Do 
not warm up rice too fast, or it will burn. Serve with milk. 

Or, steam one cup rice with three cups boiling water, adding 
teaspoon salt, in greased fireproof dish four hours. Cooked in 
this way, every grain will be separate. Serve with milk, sirup, 
or honey. 

To Boil Rice Soft. This process makes rice into a thick 
creamy paste. Put rice into cold salted water and bring it to 
the boil. Then draw it to the side of the fire, and simmer one 
and one half hours, stirring it now and then to keep it from 
sticking, and taking care that it does not cook dry. If at the 
end of that time there is any liquid left, drain it off, but unless you 
put in a great deal of water at first, there won't be any — the 
rice will have absorbed it all. Serve with milk, preserves, honey, 
or sirup. One half cup raisins added to boiled rice impart a 
fine flavor. Left-over cooked rice may be made into a pudding 
by the addition of milk and eggs; this, too, is improved by 
addition of raisins, figs, or cut-up dates. A pudding such as 
this requires less baking than one made of uncooked rice. 

Brewis 

1 cup (4 ozs.) bread crumbs i teaspoon salt 

3 cups (1^ pts.) milk 2 tablespoons (1 oz.) butter sub- 

stitute 

Heat milk in double boiler, add bread crumbs, salt and butter 
substitute, and cook, beating steadily until milk is absorbed. 
This may be varied by adding a little chopped onion, or chopped 
parsley, or a Uttle celery salt, or powdered herbs. Serve hot 
with milk. Brewis may be served in place of mush for breakfast 
and is an appetizing way of using stale bread. 

Cereal Croquettes 

2 cups (1 pt.) cooked cereal | teaspoon salt 

1 tablespoon milk 3 tablespoons chopped dates, or 

1 egg, separated raisins 

Fine bread crumbs 



CEREALS 47 

Reheat cereal with milk, add yolk of egg, salt, and fruit, and 
turn out to cool. Form into neat croquettes, brush over with 
beaten white of egg, toss in bread crumbs, and fry in plenty of 
smoking hot fat. Drain and serve hot with sirup. These 
croquettes are excellent served with a little crisped bacon for a 
breakfast dish. 

Cereal Mush 

2 cups (1 pt.) fine cereal 2 cups (1 pt.) boiling water 

3 teaspoons flour 1 teaspoon salt 

Maple sirup, honey, or molasses 

Mix cereal and flour together, stir into water and add salt; 
stir and cook until it is as thick as can be stirred with a wooden 
spoon. Drop by spoonfuls on to a hot greased griddle and mash 
down so that cakes will be one fourth inch in thickness. Fry 
brown on both sides and serve with maple sirup, honey, or 
molasses. 

The flavor is far superior to mush fried after it has been 
allowed to become cold. This dish is light and easily digested. 

Cereal with Dates 

1 cup (^ lb.) fine cereal 1 teaspoon salt 

4 cups (1 qt.) boihng water | cup (2 ozs.) stoned dates 

Stir cereal into boiling water, add salt, and cook in double 
boiler one hour ; add dates and cook ten minutes longer. Serve 
hot with milk. This will mold well. 

Figs, raisins, or stoned primes may be used instead of dates. 

Corn Meal Mush 

4 cups (1 qt.) boihng water 1 cup (6 ozs.) corn meal 

1 teaspoon salt Molasses, or sirup, or honey 

Put boiling water into double boiler, add salt, and stir in corn 
meal, stir well every few minutes to prevent lumping, and cook 
one hour. Pour into greased mold. When cold, slice and fry 
in hot fat until a golden color. Serve with molasses, or sirup, 
or honey, or crushed or sweetened fruits which have been allowed 
to stand until juice is extracted. One half cup chopped nut 



48 ECONOMICAL COOKERY 

meats, or one half cup chopped figs, or raisins, or dates may be 
added to above mixture. Stir in nuts or fruit thirty minutes 
before serving. Serve with milk. 

To make savor}'- mush, add one half teaspoon powdered herbs 
and one half tablespoon chopped parsley, and omit nuts or fruit. 
Fry a few slices of bacon and brown the mush in the hot 
drippings. Serve hot together. Milk may be used instead of 
boiling water ; skim milk will do. 

Each slice of mush may be dipped in beaten egg or milk and 
then in cracker or bread crumbs and fried as above. 

The secret of good mush is long, slow cooking. 

Another Method. About eight o'clock in the morning make a 
rather thin mush of coarse yellow corn meal and boiling water 
well salted, with one tablespoon sugar to each quart of mush. 
Boil ten minutes, stirring constantly. Then put saucepan where 
it will boil slowly and let it cook all day, adding a httle boiling 
water from time to time. Stir gently every few minutes. All 
day long it must be watched and stirred. Serve at six o'clock in 
dainty bowls with milk or cream. 

Com meal contains about four and one half times as much fat 
as wheat, and three times as much mineral matter. Wheat flour 
contains a httle more protein, or muscle-making material, than 
corn meal, and a very small amount of starch. 

Country Porridge 

1 cup (^ lb.) rice 1 cup (^ pt.) milk 

1 cup (^ lb.) barley 1 teaspoon salt 

Wash rice and barley thoroughly in boiling water, then simmer 
gently five hours, keeping grains well covered with boiling water. 
When cooked, strain off any superfluous water, and set this 
aside for soup. Next morning add milk to rice and barley, 
bring it to the boil, add salt, and serve very hot. 

Cracked Wheat 

4 cups (1 qt.) boiling water 1 cup (2 pt.) cracked wheat 

1 teaspoon salt 

Put water into a saucepan, stir in cracked wheat and salt, 
and cook two and one half hours. Serve with milk, maple 



CEREALS 49 

simp, or honey. Left-over cracked wheat may be made into a 
pudding. Into one cup of left-over cracked wheat, add two 
beaten eggs, one cup milk, three tablespoons honey, one teaspoon 
vanilla extract, and one half cup chopped dates, or figs, or 
raisins. Turn into greased fireproof dish and bake forty minutes 
in a moderate oven. Serve hot or cold with milk. 

Farina Flummery 

1^ cups (f lb.) farina 4 teaspoons sugar or honey 

I teaspoon salt 2 tablespoons fruit juice 

Cover farina with cold water and allow to stand twenty-four 
hours, drain off water, cover again, and stand again twenty-four 
hours. Add salt, and boil until very thick, stirring all the time, 
then add sugar or honey and fruit juice, mix well, pour into 
plates or saucers, and serve hot or cold with cream or sugar. 

Oatmeal may be used instead of farina. 

Farina Mush 

4 cups (1 qt.) boihng milk 2 tablespoons (1 oz.) butter sub- 

f cup (l lb.) farina stitute 

1 teaspoon salt 

Into milk stir slowly farina, add butter substitute and salt, 
and cook in double boiler forty minutes. Serve hot or cold with 
cream and sugar. Or, cook as above, pour into greased shallow 
dish, allow it to become cold, cut into sHces and fry in hot fat. 

Or, season two cups cooked farina with a little salt, a dash of 
pepper, and a few drops onion juice. Shape into small balls, 
dip in melted fat, and bake in hot oven ; or roll in egg or milk 
and then in crumbs or crushed vermicelli, and brown in smoking 
hot fat. Serve with meat in place of potatoes. 



Frumenty 

4 cups (1 qt.) cracked wheat 1 cup (j lb.) currants 

4 cups (1 qt.) hot milk 1 teaspoon salt 

1 cup (I lb.) seeded raisins 4 tablespoons honey or sirup 

i teaspoon powdered nutmeg 



50 ECONOMICAL COOKERY 

Soak cracked wheat in cold water overnight ; then cook in 
the water until very soft, adding more boiling water if necessary. 
Now add milk, raisins, currants, salt, honey or sirup, and nutmeg, 
and cook ten minutes longer. 

Mixed Breakfast Cereal 

i cup (1 gill) rolled oats ^ cup (1 gill) hominy grits 

I cup (1 gill) barley 6 cups (3 pts.) warm water 

Soak overnight rolled oats, barley, and hominy grits in water. 
Next morning cook one hour and fifteen minutes. Serve with 
milk. 

If liked, sprinkle over with a httle powdered nutmeg. 

Oatmeal and Cheese 

2| cups (1 lb.) fine oatmeal 1 tablespoon (^ oz.) butter sub- 

4 cups (1 qt.) boiling water stitute 

1 teaspoon salt 2 cups (| lb.) grated cheese 

Cook oatmeal in water, add salt, and before serving stir in 
butter, and cheese. The cheese should be mild in flavor and 
soft in texture, and the stirrmg be continued until cheese is 
thoroughly melted and incorporated with cereal. 

Oats contain all the constituents necessary for the maintenance 
of high bodily vigor. It is one of those foods, especially with the 
addition of milk, capable of supporting life for an indefinite 
period. Oatmeal is a highly nutritious food, and its assimilating 
properties are unsurpassed. Oatmeal should be taken often in 
place of meat and potatoes at breakfast. 

Oatmeal Porridge 

1| cups (^ lb.) oatmeal 4 cups (2 pts.) boiUng water 

1 teaspoon salt 

Sprinkle oatmeal into water, stir and cook until porridge is 
smooth and beginning to thicken, add salt, and allow porridge 
to cook one hour. The porridge must be stirred occasionally 
during cooking, and if it becomes too thick, add a little more 



CEREALS 51 

boiling water. Pour into plates and serve with milk. Or, 
put oatmeal and water into a bowl, cover, and stand overnight. 
Turn into a saucepan, stir over fire until boiling, add salt to 
taste, and allow to cook forty minutes. Or, meal and water 
may be soaked in a double boiler overnight and boiHng water 
put in outer pan next day, cooking it a longer time, but it re- 
quires Uttle attention beyond an occasional stir and attention 
so that the water underneath boils all the time and does not 
reduce too much. There need be no fear of porridge burning. 
Sirup, brown sugar, or milk may be served with porridge if 
liked. Oatmeal and barley, or hominy, in equal parts, may be 
used for porridge with good results. 

To Make Porridge Cakes. Form left-over cold cooked por- 
ridge into a paste by placing it in a bowl and kneading in enough 
flour to make it thick. Flour a bakmg board and roll out porridge 
to three fourths inch in thickness. Cut into three-cornered 
pieces and bake twenty minutes on a griddle or in a quick oven. 
When cooked, split cakes open, butter them, and serve hot. 
They form a dish that is just as tempting for tea as for breakfast. 

Rolled Oats Porridge 

1 cup (I pt.) rolled oats 4 cups (1 qt.) boiling water 

1 teaspoon salt 

Stir rolled oats into boiling water, add salt, and cook in double 
boiler one hour. Serve with milk. 

For left-over cereal put it into greased molds, scoop out 
inside, fill with stewed, canned, or fresh fruit cut into dice and 
sweetened, cover top with cereal, and stand in refrigerator two 
hours. 

A plate of cooked cereal which has a little hot gravy poured 
over it, is often hked by children who do not care for it when 
it is served with mi\k and sugar. 

A nice way of serving porridge is to make a well in the center 
. of the porridge on the plate, fill it up with maple sirup or honey, 
either hot or cold, and cover surface of porridge with milk or 
cream, or pour over baked apples. 

Left-over porridge may be used for soup. 



52 ECONOMICAL COOKERY 

Rye Meal Mush 

1 cup (2- pt.) rye meal 1 cup (^ pt.) cold water 

1 teaspoon salt 4 cups (1 qt.) boiling water 

Mix meal and salt together and beat in cold water to make 
a smooth batter. Then add boiling water and cook thirty 
minutes, stirring constantly until thick, then stir occasionally 
and cook one hour and fifteen minutes. Serve with milk or 
sirup. 




Farina Mush. Page 49. 




Cereal avith Datks. J'aqe 4'. 








£(..,'. IN' Ne>ts. l\uie 56. 



I 




Making Egg Dishes. 




Making ax Omelet. Pane 6";i 




Making Stocks for Soups. Page Go. 



CHAPTER VI 
EGGS AND OMELETS 

" A dish fit for the gods." 

The yolk of an egg is popularly supposed to be of a different 
nature from the white. But it is only oil that makes the yolk 
different and its proportion of yellow coloring matter. The 
white is merely albumen mixed with water; it contains a due 
proportion of saline matter which renders this natural water not 
at all insipid. All the potashes, sulphurs, sodas, magnesias, and 
acids found in the human system are in the egg-stuff, ready in 
proper form for due absorption when the egg, rightly cooked, is 
eaten. Of actual protein, there is only about fourteen per cent. 
in the white ; the rest of it is egg-liquid, i.e., water enriched with 
saline matter. The yolk, identical with the white in its base, 
the building stuff, protein or proteid, has yet a slightly higher 
percentage of it, viz., fifteen per cent. In addition, it holds 
more sulphur and the j^ellow pigment so rich in tint in a good 
egg. The yolk depends upon its protein for its building attri- 
butes and on its oil for its warmth-making power. There is as 
much as thirty per cent, of this egg oil in the yolk and none in 
the white. The oil contains an acid as all oils do, and is the 
cause of the thickening of the yolk portion of the matter within 
the shell. 

In egg cookery most people know that great heat is enduring 
because it coagulates the albumen, making the egg what is known 
as hard. Hard-cooked eggs cannot be digested save with great 
difficulty and disturbance. Gentle cooking is essential for eggs. 

Omelets are of two kinds, according to the way they are mixed 
and cooked : 

53 



54 ECONOMICAL COOKERY 

1. 'Plain omelets, sweet or savory. 

2. Omelet souffles, sweet or savory. 

When making omelets, have everything needed ready at 
hand. Chop all seasonmgs and flavorings fine. Break the 
eggs into a bowl ; beat well with a fork, and stir in seasonings 
and one third of the butter, cut in small pieces ; season with salt 
and pepper. 

Melt a little fat in omelet or frying pan, and then, when fat is 
smoking hot, pour away and rub out with white paper — this 
prevents the omelet from sticking to the pan later. Melt rest 
of butter until it froths, then pour in egg mixture and stir lightly 
with a fork until just setting, then quickly scrape into a half- 
moon shape in the side of the pan, and leave for two or three 
seconds to set hghtly. Place a hot dish against the side of the 
pan, and with a quick movement, invert the omelet on to it. 
Serve immediately. 

When making omelet souffles have everything ready before 
commencing. Chop all seasonings and flavorings fine. Separate 
yolks and whites of eggs, and mix former with seasonings. Beat 
whites to a stiff froth and fold lightly into mixture with a metal 
spoon. Prepare omelet pan as above and melt butter until it 
froths. Pour in mixture, and cook lightly till slightly brown 
on under side, shaking pan and keeping edges free. Brown top, 
fold over quickly, and turn out on to hot dish. 



Alpine Eggs 

i small onion 2 eggs 

2 tablespoons (1 oz.) butter sub- I teaspoon salt 

stitute I teaspoon pepper 

I cup (2 ozs.) cheese 1 teaspoon chopped parsley 



Peel and slice onion. Melt one tablespoon of the butter 
substitute, add onion, and fry a light brown. Put fried onion 
in a small, well-greased fireproof dish, add cheese cut in very 
thin slices, break eggs on top, add seasonings, dot with remainder 
of butter substitute, and bake in quick oven ten minutes. 
Sprinkle with parsley and serve at once. 



EGGS AND OMELETS 55 

Eggs k La Creole 

Eggs 1 tablespoon capers 

Butter 2 tablespoons chopped mushrooms 

Chopped parsley 3 drops onion juice 

§ can tomatoes 5 teaspoon salt 

5 teaspoon pepper 

Take as many small molds as are required, grease them, and 
sprinkle with parsley. Break into each one a new-laid egg. 
Stand molds in a little boiling water, cover, and let steam ten 
minutes. 

Into saucepan put tomatoes, add capers, mushrooms, season- 
ings, and tablespoon butter. Simmer ten minutes. Turn eggs 
out on to a hot dish and pour sauce round them. 

Eggs k La Frankford 

3 tablespoons chopped cooked meat 2 eggs, beaten 

or chicken ^ cup (1 gill) milk 

1 tablespoon chopped parsley | teaspoon salt 
I teaspoon pepper 

Mix meat and parsley together, grease small molds, and line 
them with meat mixture. Beat up eggs, add milk and season- 
ings, three parts fill molds, stand in pan of boiling water to 
come within one half inch of top, simmer slowly until set. 
Turn out on hot dish and pour around base a sauce made as 
follows : Beat up one egg, add one half cup milk, seasoning of 
salt and pepper, and stir over the fire until slightly thickened, 
pour into dish and serve. 

Egg Charlotte 

Butter substitute Chopped parsley 

Bread Salt and pepper 

Mild cheese Eggs 

Take a flat earthenware dish, and grease it well with butter 
substitute. Lay in it some very thin slices of bread and cover 
these with thin slices of soft, mild cheese. Sprinkle with 
parsley, salt, and pepper. Then break some eggs — one for 
each person — and drop them carefully, side by side, on cheese. 
Bake in moderate oven until eggs are set. Serve hot. 



56 ECONOMICAL COOKERY 

Egg Croquettes 

2 hard-cooked eggs, chopped | cup (1 gill) water 

2 tablespoons (1 oz.) butter sub- | cup (2 ozs.) grated cheese 
stitute i cup (1 oz.) bread crumbs 

1 tablespoon flour 1 teaspoon salt 

^ teaspoon pepper 

Melt butter substitute in a saucepan, add flour and when 
smooth, pour in water and mix to a thick sauce, add eggs, 
cheese, bread crumbs and seasonings. Mix well together and 
turn out to get cold. Divide into equal parts, form into neat 
croquettes, brush over with milk or beaten egg, toss in bread 
crumbs or crushed vermicelli, and fry in smoking hot fat to a 
golden color. Drain and serve hot. 

Eggs in Nests 

Rounds toasted bread Eggs 

Deviled ham or meat Salt and pepper 

Parsley 

Spread rounds of bread with contents of one small can deviled 
ham or meat. Beat up egg whites to a stiff froth, season lightly 
with salt and pepper, pile on top of ham, make well in center 
and drop in egg yolks. Bake in moderate oven until eggs 
are set. Garnish with parsley and serve hot. 

Another Method. Make tv/o cups mashed potato very hot, 
add three tablespoons butter substitute, two tablespoons hot 
milk, one half teaspoon salt, and one fourth teaspoon pepper. 
Form into nest shapes on a hot greased baking dish, break an egg 
into each, and bake in hot oven till set. Serve hot. A little 
grated cheese may be sprinkled over each egg. 

Griddled Eggs 

Eggs 4 tablespoons (1 oz.) flour or 

Bacon cornstarch 

4 tablespoons (2 ozs.) butter sub- 2 cups (1 pt.) milk 

stitute 2 teaspoons chopped parsley 

§ teaspoon salt J teaspoon pepper 

Heat a griddle, grease it well, also grease as many muffin 
riags as there are eggs to cook, and break an egg into each ring ; 



EGGS AND OMELETS 57 

when white is set, turn carefully with a turner, and cook other 
side for a few seconds, then put each egg on to slices of grilled 
bacon and cover with the sauce made as follows : Blend butter 
substitute and flour in a saucepan, stir m milk, bring to boiling 
point, cook eight minutes, add seasonings, and pour over eggs. 
Serve hot. 

Indian Eggs 

2 hard-cooked eggs 1 pinch powdered nutmeg 

1 tablespoon chutney i teaspoon paprika 

1 teaspoon lemon juice 1 tablespoon (§ oz.) butter sub- 

1 gherkin, chopped fine stitute 

Shredded lettuce 

Cut eggs in halves, take out yolks, mix them with chutney, 
lemon juice, gherkin, seasonings, and butter substitute. Mix 
well and pack into eggs as neatly as possible. Serve on lettuce. 



Poached Eggs in Milk 

2 eggs Milk 

1 pinch salt Rounds of buttered toast 

Poaching an egg practically means boiling it in water or milk 
without the shell. To poach eggs in milk, three parts fill a 
small frying pan with milk, add salt, break eggs into a saucer, 
taking care not to break the yolks, and slip them into milk 
when boiling. Cook gently five minutes. Take up with a 
slice, and trim off rough edge of each egg, place them on toast, 
pour a little of the milk on the plate or dish, and serve at once. 

An egg poacher or small muffin rings placed in the pan will 
help to keep the eggs in better shape. 



Scrambled Eggs with Tomatoes 

2 tablespoons (1 oz.) butter sub- 1 teaspoon salt 

stitute ^ teaspoon pepper 

2 tomatoes, peeled and chopped 2 eggs, beaten 
1 teaspoon chopped onion 3 tablespoons chopped cooked 

meat or ham 



58 ECONOMICAL COOKERY 

Melt butter substitute, add tomatoes, onion, seasonings, and 
meat, and cook ten minutes. Take pan from fire, add eggs, 
return to fire, and stir until mixture thickens. Serve hot. 

Stir one tablespoon grated cheese into an egg before scrambling 
it. This gives a very delicious flavor, and makes it nourish- 
ing. 

Steamed Eggs 

Eggs Bacon 

Chopped parsley Buttered toasted bread 

For each egg grease a small cup and sprinkle in a little chopped 
parsley. Break eggs in carefully, place cups side by side in a 
saucepan containing boiling water to one half their depth, and 
keep water barely simmering until they set. Pass a knife 
around them before turning them out on to broiled slices of 
bacon or rounds of buttered toast. 

Another Method. This is considered one of the most digestible 
ways of cooking eggs. Place the required number of new-laid 
eggs in a warm fireproof dish, large enough to hold the eggs and 
water to well eover them. Pour boiling water over, using one 
half cup to each egg. Allow the dish to stand at the side of 
the range or in the oven for six or eight minutes. They are 
then ready for serving. 

Stanley Eggs 

2 eggs Salt and pepper to taste 

3 tablespoons bread crumbs 1 tablespoon chopped parsley 
3 tablespoons milk Toast 

2 tablespoons (1 oz.) butter substitute 

This is a very economical edition of scrambled eggs, and I 
find that it is quite as much appreciated. The great thing is 
not to cook the eggs beyond the point when they are a soft, 
creamy mass. 

Beat eggs until frothy, add milk, bread crumbs, and seasonings. 
Trim the toast, then butter it ; don't butter first and trim after- 
wards, as to do this wastes tablespoons of butter in a year. 

Melt butter substitute in a small saucepan ; when it is bubbling 
sharoly, pour in egg mixture and stir over gentle heat until it is a 



EGGS AND OMELETS 59 

soft, creamy mass. Be very careful that you do not overcook 
it, or it will be too stiff, and it will also be indigestible. Next 
heap it on neat pieces of toast, sprinkle surface with parsley, 
and serve hot. 

Tomato Eggs 

4 tomatoes 2 eggs, beaten 

2 tablespoons (1 oz.) butter sub- 1 tablespoon chopped parsley 
stitute J teaspoon paprika 

§ teaspoon salt 

Halve tomatoes and take out pulp from center. Put halves 
on greased baking tin, sprinkle in salt and paprika, and place a 
small piece butter substitute in each. Cover them with greased 
paper and bake in moderate oven fifteen minutes. 

Beat eggs very thoroughly, and mix them with tomato 
pulp, and season highly. Melt remainder of butter substitute 
in a saucepan, put in egg and pulp, and stir over gentle heat 
until egg sets. Take care it does not come to boiling point. 
Fill halves of tomato with mixture, piled up roughly, and scatter 
over them chopped parsley. Serve at once on a very hot dish. 

Asparagus Omelet 

1 can asparagus tips 2 eggs, beaten 

1 tablespoon (^ oz.) butter sub- ^ teaspoon salt 
stitute J teaspoon pepper 

Turn tips from can and drain well. Put butter substitute 
in a pan over a hot fire. Beat eggs, add seasonings and asparagus 
tips cut in small pieces, mix carefully, and pour into the hot 
pan. As soon as the bottom commences to set, shake the 
pan vigorously, then let the contents settle flat again (for only 
a few moments), roll into an omelet, and serve hot. 

Baked Sweet Omelet 

2 eggs i cup (1 gill) milk 

2 teaspoons flour | tablespoon butter 

I teaspoon salt Honey or marmalade 

Beat eggs lightly, stir in flour and salt. Heat milk and into 
it put butter. Pour milk on to eggs, stir quickly, and pour 



60 ECONOMICAL COOKERY 

into a small, hot, well-buttered fireproof dish, and bake in 
moderate oven fifteen minutes. Spread with honey or mar- 
malade and serve at once. 

Another Method. Peel, core, and stew eight cooking apples, 
rub through a sieve, and add one fourth teaspoon powdered 
ginger or nutmeg. When cold, add two beaten eggs and three 
tablespoons sugar. Pour into a greased fireproof dish and bake 
until brown. Serve hot. 

Or, beat two eggs with one tablespoon honey, add pinch salt, 
and one tablespoon cream. Grease a hot omelet pan, pour in 
mixture, and cover. When it begins to thicken, spread over 
it a layer of hot apple sauce, fold, turn out on to hot platter, and 
serve sprinkled over with sugar. 

Bread Crumb Omelet 

^ cup (1 gill) milk Salt and white pepper to taste 

f cup (3 ozs.) bread crumbs 2 teaspoons chopped parsley 

2 tablespoons (1 oz.) butter sub- 2 or 3 eggs 
stitute 

Boil milk, put bread crumbs and butter substitute in a bowl, 
and when milk is hot pour it over them. Mix well, add salt 
and pepper, stiffly beaten egg yolks, and stiffly beaten whites 
of eggs. Pour into a small well-greased frying pan, and cook 
until set and lightly browned. Fold over in half and serve 
at once. 

Cheese Omelet 

2 eggs, beaten J teaspoon pepper 

4 tablespoons milk 2 tablespoons (1 oz.) butter sub- 

I teaspoon salt stitute 

1 cup (j lb.) grated cheese 

Beat eggs, add milk and seasonings. Melt butter substitute 
in small frying pan ; when hot pour in omelet. Let cook 
slowly and when ready to fold, sprinkle over cheese, fold in half, 
and turn on to a hot platter. Sprinkle with chopped parsley 
and a little more cheese and place in hot oven until cheese is 
melted. 



EGGS AND OMELETS 61 



Corn Omelet 

2 eggs, separated ^ cup (1 gill) milk 

1 can corn i teaspoon salt 

I teaspoon pepper 

Beat up yolks of eggs, add corn, milk, and seasonings, pour 
into a hot, well-greased pan, and fry until it browns and forms a 
corn cake. Beat up whites of eggs to a stiff froth and spread 
them over half of cake, turning other half over this with pancake 
turner. Serve at once on hot platter. 

Ham Omelet 

2 tablespoons (1 oz.) butter sub- ? cup (2 ozs.) ham, chopped 

stitute 2 eggs, beaten 

I teaspoon pepper 

Melt butter substitute in omelet or small frying pan, add ham 
and stir thoroughly, then add eggs and pepper, and stir gently 
over a clear fire until mixture thickens. Fold over, allow it to 
brown in the oven, and serve on a very hot dish. This is deli- 
cious surrounded with stewed tomatoes. 

Omelet Souffle 

2 e^s ^ lemon 

1 tablespoon sugar Jam or stewed fruit 

Put yolks into bowl with sugar, grated lemon rind, or other 
flavoring, and mix well together ; fold in stiffly beaten whites of 
eggs. Pour mixture into greased omelet pan and cook lightly 
until set. When firm to the touch, turn omelet out on to hot 
plate, put spoonful of jam or stewed fruit in center, and fold 
over. Brown lightly and serve hot. One square of melted 
chocolate with two tablespoons milk added, allowed to cool 
and then added to egg mixture, may be added. Or, prepare 
mixture as above, turn part of it on to flat greased fireproof 
dish, and with a knife make depression in center, put a little 
jam or preserve in center, put remaining mixture in bag with 
tube and force out in stars round the mixture. Sprinkle with 
sugar and bake in hot oven until browned. Serve hot in dish 
it was cooked in. 



62 ECONOMICAL COOKERY 

Plain Omelet 

2 eggs, beaten 1 tablespoon milk 

1 tablespoon (5 oz.) butter sub- i teaspoon salt 

stitute I teaspoon pepper 

Beat up eggs, add milk and seasonings. Dissolve shortening 
in an omelet or small frying pan; when quite hot, but not 
burning, pour in the mixture, stir over a quick fire, shake the 
pan ; when set, roll the omelet into the shape of a cushion, on 
one side of the pan, allow it to take color, then turn it quickly 
on to a hot plate, and serve. Two teaspoons of sugar may be 
used instead of the seasonings. Or, make plain omelet, using 
water instead of milk, and when cooked, pour melted honey over 
top until omelet is covered, fold quickly, and serve hot. 

Picnic Omelet 

2 to 3 large eggs, beaten ^ teaspoon pepper 

2 tablespoons cream ^ cup (4 ozs.) butter substitute 

1 teaspoon salt 1 cup (4 ozs.) cooked meat 

I teaspoon mixed mustard 

Beat up eggs until light and frothy, add cream and salt and 
pepper to taste. Melt one half of the butter substitute in small 
omelet pan or frying pan, when hot pour in mixture and cook 
imtil set. When ready, slide omelet (not fold over) on to a 
plate. Pound meat with remaining butter substitute, adding 
mustard, salt, and pepper to taste. Spread this on cold omelet, 
fold over like a pancake, wrap in waxed paper, and when required, 
cut in thick sHces. 

Salmon Omelet 

2 cups (1 pt.) milk ^ teaspoon salt 

1| cups (6 ozs.) bread crumbs j teaspoon pepper 

2 eggs, separated 2 tablespoons (1 oz.) butter sub- 

1 can salmon stitute 

Heat milk and bread crumbs to boiling point, then stir in egg 
yolks well beaten, salmon, seasonings, and beaten egg whites. 
Melt butter substitute in a frying pan, pour in mixture, and cook 
until it boilsj then bake in oven twelve to fifteen minutes. 



EGGS AND OMELETS 63 

Serve hot. The bones must be taken out of salmon, and salmon 
mashed with a fork before adding it to other ingredients. 

Savory Omelet 
2 eggs, separated | teaspoon salt 

1 teaspoon chopped onion | teaspoon pepper 

2 teaspoons chopped parsley 2 tablespoons (1 oz.) butter sub- 

stitute 

Separate yolks from whites of eggs, add to yolks seasonings, 
onion, and parsley, then add stiffly beaten whites of eggs. Dis- 
solve butter substitute in an omelet or small frying pan, but do 
not brown it ; pour in the mixture, place over a gentle heat, and 
fry a light brown, drawing it on one side of the pan, turn over 
and brown the other side. Turn on a hot dish and serve at 
once. 

Spinach Omelet 

1 cup (i pt.) spinach, cooked 2 eggs, beaten 

1 teaspoon chopped parsley 4 tablespoons (1 oz.) flour 

I teaspoon chopped onion 4 tablespoons milk 

I cup (2 ozs.) drippings, melted 1 teaspoon salt 

^ teaspoon pepper 

Rub spinach through a sieve, add parsley, onion, drippings, 
eggs, flour, milk, and seasonings, and mix well together. Pour 
into a greased fireproof dish and bake in a hot oven ten minutes. 
Serve hot. 



CHAPTER VII 
STOCKS AND SOUPS 

" First catch your clams ; along the ebbing edges 
Of saline coves you'll find the precious wedges." 

Few people succeed in making good tasty soups, for the reason 
that few understand the making of stock, the foundation of 
soups. To make a good soup it is essential the stock be well 
flavored. 

Stock is a necessity in every well-ordered kitchen, forming, as 
it does, the foundation for soups, sauces, gravies, stews, and 
made-up dishes. It is the liquid into which the juice and flavor 
of various nutritive substances have been drawn by means of 
long, slow cooking. 

An explanation of the principle underlying aU stock-making, 
together with the rules to be observed, will be found useful by 
every housewife. Since it is a fact that stock partakes more of 
the nature of a stimulant than of a food, the value of good stock 
depends upon the amount of '' extractives " that have been 
obtained during its cooking, these " extractives " being that part 
of animal food which gives distinctive flavor, acting as the stim- 
ulant to appetite and an aid to digestion. 

The principle in stock-making is extraction — to obtain the 
" extractives " contained in meat and bones. 

The aims in stock-making are : 

1. To obtain strong, weU-flavored stock. 

2. To make it a good color for the purpose required. 

3. To keep as clear and free from grease as possible. 

All rules for making stock are formed to carry out the prin- 
ciple of extraction and the aims set forth above. 

64 



STOCKS AND SOUPS 65 

Stock, and especially stock made with meat of any kind, 
should always be made the day before it is required, as a good 
result can only be obtained by long, slow cooking ; it is only by 
this means, too, that the fat can be successfully removed from 
the top of the stock. 

KINDS OF STOCK 

First Stock. This stock is carefully made from uncooked 
bones and meat, suitably and nicely flavored, and is used for 
consommes, and all high-class soups. 

Second Stock. This is made from the meat and bones from 
which the first stock has been strained, then recooked with fresh 
water and vegetables. It is used for soups that do not depend 
on the stock for their principal flavoring. 

Household Stock. This stock is made from scraps of cooked 
or uncooked meat and bones, vegetables, and such other ma- 
terials as the careful cook saves for the stock pot. It is used for 
everyday soups, and for sauces, or made-up dishes. 

Vegetable Stock. This stock is made from vegetables alone, 
either fresh or dried, or a mixture of the two. It is much used 
in vegetarian and Lenten cookery. 

Fish Stock. This stock is made from fish or fish trimmings, 
with vegetables added to give flavor. The addition of a few 
pieces of shellfish is an improvement. The stock is used for 
fish soup or sauces. 

Game Stock. This is made from any kind of game bones and 
trimmings, with vegetables added to give flavor. It is used for 
game soups or sauces served with reheated dishes made with 
cold game. 

Brown Stock. This is made principally from beef bones and 
beef, with sometimes a little veal or some poultry or game bones 
added, and usually flavored with vegetables. 

White Stock. This is made principally from white meat, 
such as mutton, poultry, rabbit, or veal, with sometimes a 
calf's foot added, and usually flavored with vegetables and 
herbs. 

Bone Stock is made from bones alone, with vegetables added 
to give flavor. 



66 ECONOMICAL COOKERY 

Glaze is stock which is so much reduced in quantity that when 
cold it forms ahnost a soHd substance. 

Cold water should be used for making stocks, as it extracts the 
juices better. Allow one quart to every pound of bones, meat, 
or vegetables. Do not add anything greasy, starchy, or highly 
colored. After cooking, strain into clean basins and allow to 
cool before setting away. When cold, remove all fat from the 
surface ; this crust of fat, if allowed to remain over the top, is 
apt to turn it sour, as it excludes the air. 

SOUPS 

The principle underlying the making of soups, as in the case of 
stock, is extraction. Soups depend for their success on the 
flavors and goodness extracted from the materials used in their 
manufacture, and this is especially the case when water has to be 
used instead of good stock. The value of soup is chiefly as a 
stimulator of appetite, except in cases where the food value has 
been increased, as in lentil soup. A well-flavored soup, made 
from stock containing " extractives " and gelatine from bones and 
meat respectively, especially if it is served hot, has the effect of 
inducmg an increased flow of the gastric juices, and therefore it 
aids in the digestion of the meal that follows. For this reason 
soups are served at the beginnmg of a meal, and are essentially 
stimulative rather than satisfiers of appetite. 

The aims in soup-making are: 

1. To produce a well-flavored soup. 

2. To keep the soup a good color. 

3. To make it clear, or of the right consistency, according 

to the character of the soup. 

4. To keep it free from grease. 

The rules for making soup vary with the character of the soup 
to be made, and before dealing with these rules, it is necessary to 
know something of the various classes of soup. These, though 
so numerous, can, roughly speaking, be divided into two great 
classes, clear and thick. 

Clear. Under the heading of clear soups are included con- 
sommes, or " cleared " soups, broths, and bouillons. 



STOCKS AND SOUPS 67 

Thick. This class includes thick soups, purees, bisques, 
cream soups, cosmopolitan, and fruit soups. 

Consommes are made from carefully prepared first stock, 
cleared with lean beef and the whites and shells of eggs ; a char- 
acteristic flavoring or garnish is added at the end to give the 
soup its distinguishing name, such as Consomm^ Julienne (with 
shreds of vegetables). 

Broths are made from first stock, seasoned to taste, and with 
the addition of pearl barley or rice, and vegetables. They may 
be prepared from lean mutton, beef, chicken, rabbit, or veal. 

Bouillon is a broth made from beef. It is simply unclarified 
stock, to which are added various grains such as rice, barley, 
sago, etc., and vegetables either cooked in the broth or separately, 
and served in small pieces. This depends for its food value 
principally on the stock, which must be strong and well flavored. 
Frequently there is served as another course the meat from which 
the broth has been prepared. 

Thick Soup is stock which is thickened by some foreign sub- 
stance such as cornstarch, arrowroot, bread, cereals, eggs, etc. 
This stock must be of good quality, for the thickening substance 
cannot be used in sufficient quantity to increase perceptibly the 
food value. 

Purees are thick soups, but the thickening is due to the sub- 
stance of which the puree is composed, which is sieved and 
incorporated with the soup. A certain amount of starch, such 
as flour or cornstarch, or other binding material, is needed, not 
to thicken but to bind the Hquid and solid parts of the soup 
together and prevent the heavy substance from separating or 
settling at the bottom. Frequently the material of which the 
puree is composed is of such a nature as not to require the 
addition of meat, such as lentils, beans, peas, etc. ; others are 
improved by being made of second stock, while others require 
as good stock as can be made, there being little or no nutriment 
in the substance itself. 

Bisques are cream soups made with shellfish, such as oysters, 
lobsters, shrimps, prawns, clams, etc. They are made as for 
cream soups, and some small pieces of the fish used in making are 
added as a garnish. 



68 ECONOMICAL COOKERY 

Cream Soups partake of the nature of purees, but their dis- 
tinguishing feature is that the binding agent is cream and yolks 
of eggs, instead of flour or cornstarch. 

The same rules as for purees apply mitil after sieving, and 
then the cream and yolks of eggs must be added carefully, and 
the soup must on no account be allowed to boil during reheating, 
or the albumen in the eggs will harden or coagulate, causing 
curdling. 

Cosmopolitan Soups are soups which are peculiar to different 
countries, such as Scotch Broth, 011a Podrida, and Pot-au-feu. 
They are made according to the rules for the kind of soup upon 
which they are based. 

Fruit Soups are specially recommended for use in summer, 
when they will be found refreshing and cooling. They can be 
made with either fresh or dried fruit, and the method for all is 
very similar. The fruit is stewed until soft and reduced to a 
pulp with water and sugar, and then strained or sieved. A little 
spice, such as nutmeg, ginger, or cinnamon, or the grated rind of 
a lemon or orange, is generally added to give flavor. Some 
fruit soups require a little thickening to be added. Red or 
white wine may also be used for flavoring. These soups are 
served either hot or cold with rusks, zwieback, toast, crackers, 
puffed rice or wheat, etc., according to fancy. 

Apricot Soup 

I pound dried apricots J teaspoon powdered nutmeg 

6 cups (2 qts.) cold water 4 tablespoons (2 ozs.) sugar 

1 orange 3 tablespoons (^ oz.) cornstarch 

Rusks or fried bread 

Wash apricots and soak them overnight in one half of the 
water. Next day put them into a saucepan with their water, 
grated rind of orange, and nutmeg, and stew until tender. Then 
rub as much as possible through a fine sieve, add sugar, remainder 
of water and strained orange juice. Return this puree to a clean 
saucepan and bring it to boiling point. Add cornstarch mois- 
tened with a little cold water and cook five minutes, stirring all 
the time. If too thick add more water or fruit .j.uice.. Sery^ 



STOCKS AND SOUPS 69 

either hot or cold, and hand separately rusks or fried and sweet- 
ened crotitons of bread. 

A few stewed and stoned prunes may be added to the soup, 
or a few chopped nut meats. If liked, some whipped cream may 
be piled on the top. 

This recipe is sufficient for one and one half quarts. 

Bean Puree with Grated Cheese 

1 cup (I pt.) dried beans 1 teaspoon salt 

1 large onion, sliced ^ teaspoon pepper 

6 cups (3 pts.) water 1 teaspoon meat extract 

1 cup (I pt.) milk . Grated cheese 

Wash beans and soak them overnight in plenty of cold water. 
Drain beans and put them into a soup pot with onion and water. 
Bring to the boil, and cook slowly until beans are soft. Rub 
through a sieve, add milk, return this puree to the pan, add 
seasonings, and boil up. Serve grated cheese with this soup. 

Beef Soup with Savory Dumplings 

1 bone, chopped in six pieces 1 carrot, sliced 

f pound beef, cut small 1 turnip, sUced 

4 potatoes, shced 3 onions, sUced 

12 cups (3 qts.) water 1 beet, sliced 

Put bone, meat, and water into soup pot, bring to the boil, then 
let it simmer one hour, add vegetables, salt and pepper to taste. 
Then cook two hours, remove bones, add dumplings, and suffi- 
cient hot water to make soup up to two quarts. Serve hot. 

Dumplings 

2 cups (I lb.) flour 1 cup (4 ozs.) suet, chopped 

2 teaspoons baking powder I teaspoon salt 

1 teaspoon chopped parsley 1 teaspoon powdered herbs 

Sift flour, baking powder, and salt into a bowl, add parsley 
and seasoning, rub in suet, and add sufficient water to make into 
stiff paste. Roll into balls, and steam two and one half hours. 
Serve in soup. 



70 ECONOMICAL COOKERY 



Black Bean Soup 

4 cups (1 qt.) black beans 2 bay leaves 

1 piece beef shank 7 cloves 

1 veal knuckle 1 teaspoon mustard 

1 can tomatoes 2 teaspoons salt 

2 onions, sliced | teaspoon pepper 
2 carrots, sliced ^ teaspoon paprika 

1 unpeeled potato, sliced Hard-cooked eggs 

2 stalks celery, sliced Lemon 

Wash beans, cover with plenty of cold water and soak over- 
night. Next morning add to water and beans the shank and 
veal which have been seared in a pan, vegetables, bay leaves, and 
seasonings ; now add enough more water to cover soup meat and 
cook slowly eight hours. Pour soup through colander, mashing 
through beans. 

Reheat next day and to each plate of soup add one half hard- 
cooked egg, chopped fine, and two thin slices of lemon. 

Bone Stock 

4 pounds bones 3 stalks celery 

12 cups (6 pts.) water 1 onion 

12 white peppercorns 1 bunch herbs 

1 carrot 1 teaspoon salt 

1 turnip 1 blade mace 

1 bay leaf 

Wash bones well, removing all fat and marrow. Place them 
in a large saucepan with salt and water, bring to the boil, remove 
scum and cook three hours. Add vegetables cut into neat 
pieces and herbs tied in cheesecloth bag. Simmer two hours. 
Strain into a bowl. Remove fat from top when cold, and use. 

To Make Weak Stock from Bones. If the bones are large, chop 
them as small as possible ; and to every pound of bones and odd 
pieces allow a generous quart of liquor in which vegetables have 
been boiled, making up with plain water if not sufficient — or, of 
course, all water may be used. A whole onion stuck with three 
cloves may be added, a teaspoon of salt, and a teaspoon of flour 
sprinkled over the top. Simmer for three or four hours, remov- 
ing, as it rises, the scum which the flour will help to bring up. 



STOCKS AND SOUPS 71 

By attending to this the stock will be much clearer than it 
would otherwise be. When done, strain; and if not used the 
next day boil up again, and every day until required, or it will 
turn sour. 

Cabbage Soup 

1 firm cabbage 1 teaspoon salt 

4 tablespoons (2 ozs.) butter substitute ^ teaspoon pepper 
8 cups (2 qts.) water | teaspoon celery salt 

2 cups (1 pt.) milk Small squares toasted bread 

Wash cabbage, slice it into soup pot, add butter substitute, 
cover and cook ten minutes over a gentle heat, add water, 
simmer one hour, then add milk and seasonings, bring to boiling 
point ; serve hot with toasted bread. 

Canned Corn Soup 

1 can corn 2 tablespoons (^ oz.) flour 

2 cups (1 pt.) cold water 1| teaspoons salt 

2 cups (1 pt.) scalded milk ^ teaspoon celery salt 

1 tablespoon chopped onion | teaspoon white pepper 

2 tablespoons (1 oz.) butter 1 cup {h pt.) whipped cream 

Cook corn in water thirty minutes, add milk. Cook onion in 
butter for a few minutes, but do not allow it to brown ; stir in 
flour, then add seasonings and corn mixture, cook eight minutes, 
add cream, and serve hot. 

Clear Soup with Rice 

Bones 6 white peppercorns 

4 tablespoons (2 ozs.) drippings 3 slices bacon 

8 cups (2 qts.) water 2 carrots 

1 onion 1 turnip 

3 cloves 1 leek 

1 tablespoon salt 1 clove garlic 
Rice 

Take any bones that you may happen to have, whether they 
be poultry, pork, veal, mutton, or beef; carefully remove all 
meat, and put this on one side for croquettes or hash, being care- 
ful to get rid of all gristle or skin which is attached to bones. Now 
put bones broken up small, say three pounds of them, into a soup 
pot with drippings, and fry a few minutes ; add water, onion stuck 



72 ECONOMICAL COOKERY 

with cloves, salt, poppv-^rcorns, and bacon, and cook until liquid 
is reduced to half. Skim carefully, add vegetables and garlic 
cut in small pieces, simmer thirty minutes; now pass through 
sieve, return to saucepan, bring it to boiling point, add one 
tablespoon of well-washed rice for each cup of liquid ; bring to 
boiling point, then cover, and leave at side of fire sixty minutes. 
Serve hot. 

Corn Chowder 

3 slices fat pork 4 cups (1 qt.) milk, scalded 

2 onions, sliced 1 cup (| pt.) tomato puree 

2 cups (1 pt.) diced potatoes 1 teaspoon salt 

1 can corn ^ teaspoon pepper 

Cut pork in small pieces and fry in saucepan until quite brown. 
Add onions and fry but do not brown, stir in potatoes, cover with 
water and let potatoes cook until almost done. Then add corn, 
milk, tomato pur^e, and seasonings. Serve hot. The tomato 
puree is obtained by rubbing fresh or canned tomatoes through 
a sieve. 

Cream of Leek Soup 

6 large leeks 2 cups (1 pt.) milk or cream 

2 tablespoons (1 oz.) drippings I teaspoon pepper 
1 teaspoon salt I teaspoon paprika 

8 cups (2 qts.) water 2 tablespoons (1 oz.) butter 

Slices thin brown toast 

Wash and skin leeks, split lengthwise and cut in pieces one 
inch long. Melt drippings, add leeks and fry, stirring constantly 
that they do not brown, then add salt and water. Simmer three 
fourths of an hour or until liquor has been reduced to one quart, 
add milk, seasonings, and butter. Have toast in hot tureen and 
pour soup over this. 

Emergency Soup 

6 tablespoons (3 ozs.) lard or margarine 1 teaspoon salt 

3 tablespoons (f oz.) flour -3 teaspoon pepper 

3 cups (1| pts.) boiling water Thin sHces bread 

4 teaspoons beef extract Melted butter 
1 tablespoon cream Grated cheese 

Red pepper 



STOCKS AND SOUPS 73 

Brown fat in saucepan, add flour and brown that also. Now 
add water mixed with beef extract, cream, and seasoning. Serve 
hot with bread sHces prepared as follows : Remove crusts and 
cut bread in squares, brush them on each side with melted butter, 
sprinkle over with cheese seasoned with red pepper, and brown 
in oven. 

Fish Chowder 

5 pounds cod or haddock 6 potatoes, parboiled 

2 onions, sHced 1 tablespoon savory herbs 

4 tablespoons (2 ozs.) butter or lard 1 teaspoon salt 
I pound fat pickled pork, diced ^ teaspoon pepper 

4 cups (1 qt.) milk 

Skin and bone fish. Cut fish into pieces about two inches 
square and put it aside in a cool place. Put bones and trim- 
mings into a saucepan, cover with cold water and allow to boil. 
Fry onions in two tablespoons of butter or lard with pork. 
When onions are cooked to golden brown, strain into a saucepan. 
SHce potatoes one eighth of an inch thick, place layer on top of 
onions, lay pieces of fish upon these with another layer of po- 
tatoes on top ; strain liquor in which bones were boiled and add 
to contents of pan with seasonings, remainder of butter and 
milk, and let all simmer until cooked. Serve hot. 

Fish Soup 

I cup (2 ozs.) drippings 4 tablespoons (1 oz.) cornstarch 

1 filleted fish 1 teaspoon salt 

4 cups (1 qt.) fish stock ^ teaspoon pepper 

2 onions, sliced I teaspoon paprika 

Crotitons toasted bread 

Melt drippings in a saucepan, put in onions, and fry 
until browned. Sprinkle in cornstarch, mix well, then add 
stock by degrees, bring to the boil, add seasonings, and cook 
twenty minutes. Then strain and return to clean saucepan, 
add fish cut in small pieces and allow to cook fifty minutes. 
Put bread crotitons in soup tureen and pour boiling soup 
over them. 



74 ECONOMICAL COOKERY 

Giblet Soup 

2 sels Riblets 1 large carrot, sliced 

4 tablespoons (2 ozs.) butter or lard 1 turnip, sliced 

1 bay leaf 4 sprigs parsley 

1 blade mace h cup (2 ozs.) flour 

1 bunch herbs 8 cups (2 qts.) stock or water 

^ small cabbage, sliced 1 teaspoon pepper 

1 large onion, shced 2 teaspoons salt 

5 lemon 

Clean and trim giblets thoroughly, drop them into boiling 
water one minute, lift out into cold water to blanch them ; divide 
them into inch pieces. Put lard into saucepan with vegetables, 
bay leaf, mace, herbs, and fry five minutes ; add flour, stock, and 
giblets, bring to the boil and skim, simmer two hours, or until 
giblets are tender ; pour through sieve, Hft out giblets and rub 
vegetables through sieve, put back into pan with giblets and 
seasonings, reheat, and serve. 

Good Brown Stock 

4 pounds shin of beef Any poultry or game bones 

10 cups (2^ qts.) water 1 carrot 

3 cloves 2 onions, browned 

2 bay leaves 1 bunch herbs 

1 teaspoon peppercorns 2 stalks celery 

Cut meat into small squares, break up bones and remove 
marrow; cover with water and bring gently to the boil; skim 
well, then add all the other ingredients and simmer four hours ; 
pour through a fine sieve, and when cold remove fat. The 
bones, etc., may be boiled again for inexpensive soups. 

To make an everyday ^ock, cut up some meat or meat trim- 
mings and chop up bones ; put them into a large saucepan and 
fill up with cold water, allowing four cups to each pound of meat 
and bones ; add a little salt, and bring to boiling point slowly. 
Add a few stock vegetables, such as onion, turnip, carrot, celery 
and parsley, all of which must be thoroughly cleaned. Simmer 
for three or four hours, then strain into a basin, and be sure that 
every particle of grease is removed. Almost any kind of meat, 
cooked or uncooked, bones, and gravy from meat may be used 
for stock-making, so long as they are fresh and sweet. 



STOCKS AND SOUPS 75 

Good White Stock 

4 pounds shin of veal An old fowl or a rabbit 

10 cups (2^ qts.) water 3 stalks celery 

Any poultry bones 1 onion, sliced 

1 blade mace 

Cut meat into small pieces, and break up bones, put them into 
soup pot with cold water and bring gently to the boil; skim 
thoroughly, add other ingredients, and simmer four hours; 
pour through a fine sieve, and when cold remove the fat. The 
bones may be boiled down again. 

A very economical white stock may be made by using bones 
only in making the stock, and no meat ; use a ham bone, if pos- 
sible, with the other bones as this gives a nice flavor. 

To Remove Fat from Stock. Have in readiness two kitchen 
spoons, a bowl of boiling water, a clean cloth, and a small dish 
into which to put the fat. Heat the spoons in the boiling water, 
and use first one and then the other to skim off the grease. The 
spoons, being hot, melt the fat, and make it much more easily 
removed. When as much as possible has been taken off with 
the spoons, dip the end of the cloth into boiling water and wipe 
the stock over with this until free from grease. If the stock has 
not jellied, pieces of tissue or any absorbent paper must be 
passed over the surface instead of the cloth. 

If the fat is good it should be clarified and used for drippings. 

m 

Lentil Soup 

2 cups (1 pt.) lentils 2 stalks celery 

1 carrot 4 tablespoons (2 ozs.) butter substitute 

3 potatoes 1 teaspoon salt 

1 small turnip | teaspoon pepper 

2 onions 10 cups (2^ qts.) water 

Wash lentils in several waters. Wash and prepare vegetables, 
and cut them into small pieces. Melt butter substitute in a 
soup pot and when hot, put in onions and fry them a nice brown. 
Add lentils and remainder of vegetables, pour in water, and 
simmer two and one half hours, stirring from time to time. 
When lentils are quite soft, rub soup through a colander, adding 



76 ECONOMICAL COOKERY 

a little boiling water if necessary. Wash out soup pot, pour 
soup back into it, then season to taste and heat well before 
serving. 

Mutton Broth 

2 pounds neck of mutton 1 carrot 

8 cups (2 qts.) water 1 turnip 

1 tablespoon barley 1 tablespoon chopped parsley 

2 leeks 1 teaspoon salt 

^ teaspoon pepper 

Wipe meat, cut it in small pieces and remove all superfluous 
fat. Prepare vegetables and cut them into small pieces. Put 
bones, meat, and water into a saucepan, put on lid, and bring 
slowly to the boil, skim well, add washed barley, vegetables and 
simmer three hours. Remove bones, add parsley, and season- 
ings. Serve hot. 

If preferred, the meat may be kept whole, and served as a 
separate course, with parsley sauce poured over it. 

Onion Soup 

4 Spanish onions, chopped 1 teaspoon sugar 

2 red peppers, chopped 8 cups (2 qts.) stock or water 

4 tablespoons (2 ozs.) butter or 1 teaspoon salt 
drippings I teaspoon pepper 

Thin toast sUces 

Fry onions and pepper in butter or drippings three minutes, 
add sugar, and when onions are slightly browned pour in stock 
or water, and add seasonings. Cook slowly until the pieces of 
onion are very tender and pour into a tureen over toast. Serve 
hot. 

Oyster Soup 

2 cups (1 pt.) oysters | teaspoon salt 

2 cups (1 pt.) milk | teaspoon paprika 

1 onion, chopped 1 tablespoon (^ oz.) butter 

1 green pepper, chopped ^ cup (1 gill) hot water 

Crackers 

Cook oysters in their liquor and water until edges crinkle, then 
add butter and remove from fire. Boil milk, add onion, green 



STOCKS AND SOUPS 77 

pepper and seasonings, and when onion and pepper are soft pour 
over oysters. Serve hot with crackers. 

Parsnip Soup 

1§ pounds parsnips I cup (1 gill) milk 

4 cups (1 qt.) stock or water 1 teaspoon salt 

I cup (i lb.) drippings h teaspoon pepper 

1 tablespoon flour 1 teaspoon chopped parsley 

Cut parsnips into thin slices, and cook in drippings fifteen 
minutes, put cover on pan. Add stock and seasonings, bring to 
the boil, then simmer one and one half hours. Rub through a 
sieve, reheat, add flour mixed with milk, and parsley ; cook iBve 
minutes, and serve with tiny squares of fried bread. 

Pea Soup 

1 cup (Hb.) dried peas 1 turnip 

8 cups (2 qts.) water 1 bunch herbs 

1 tablespoon (| oz.) drippings 1 cup (| pt.) milk 

1 onion 1 teaspoon salt 

1 carrot I teaspoon pepper 
Cubes toast 

Wash peas and then pour over the water and let them soak 
overnight. Next day stram off liquid and reserve it for the soup. 
Prepare vegetables and cut them m thin sHces. Melt drippings 
in a saucepan, add peas and vegetables, and stir over fire until 
fat is absorbed. Add reserved liquid and herbs and allow to 
simmer slowly three hours. Stir soup occasionally to prevent 
sticking, then rub through a sieve. Rinse out saucepan and 
return soup to it to reheat ; add milk, seasonings, bring to the 
boil and simmer five minutes. Serve with toast cubes. 

A ham bone may be boiled in the soup to give it flavor. 



Potato Soup 

2 pounds potatoes, cut in slices 1 teaspoon salt 

2 onions, cut in slices i teaspoon pepper 

i cup (2 ozs.) drippings 1 cup (^ pt.) milk 

8 cups (2 qts.) water 1 tablespoon sago or tapioca 



78 ECONOMICAL COOKERY 

Put potatoes and onions into saucepan, add drippinj^s and 
heat over the fire ten minutes, shake pan occasionally so that 
they will not stick, add water and cook until vegetables are 
tender, then rub through a sieve, put back into saucepan with 
seasonings, milk, and sago, boil twenty minutes and serve. 

Rice Soup 

1 cup (6 ozs.) rice (unpolished) 8 cups (2 qts.) vegetable stock or 

3 tablespoons (I-2 ozs.) butter sub- skimmed milk 

stitutc 1 teaspoon salt 

2 large onions, sliced 5 teaspoon pepper 

^ teaspoon celery salt 

Wash and drain rice. Melt fat, add onions, and fry them until 
soft. Pour in stock and bring it to the boil. Now sprinkle in 
rice and let cook gently until quite soft. Season and serve hot. 

Many persons like two tablespoons of grated stale cheese 
added to this soup just before serving, but this is a matter of 
taste. 

St. Germain Soup 

1 can peas 1 leek, diced 

7 cups (3§ pts.) water 1 bay leaf 

1 ham bone 1 tablespoon chopped parsley 

2 carrots, diced 1 teaspoon salt 

1 onion, sliced I teaspoon pepper 

Put into, a saucepan peas, water, bone, vegetables, bay leaf, 
parsley, and seasonings, and allow to simmer three hours, stirring 
occasionally. Strain and rub vegetables through a sieve. Re- 
turn to saucepan and let it boil up, adding to it some whole peas 
and one tablespoon of chopped mint. Serve hot. 

The chopped mint may be omitted as some people may not 
care for the flavor. 

Soup Maigre 

3 leeks 2 tablespoons (1 oz.) butter substitute 

4 potatoes i teaspoon salt 

2 stalks celery I teaspoon pepper 

4 cups (1 qt.) water 2 cups (1 pt.) milk 

1 tablespoon sago or tapioca 



STOCKS AND SOUPS 79 

Prepare vegetables and let them lie in water one hour. Cut 
them into small pieces, using only the white of leeks. Put into 
a clean saucepan ; add water, butter substitute, and seasonings. 
Bring to the boil without the lid, then stir and skim. Cover 
with lid, and cook until vegetables are soft enough to press 
through a sieve. Return to pan with milk, and stir in gradually 
tapioca, and continue stirring until tapioca is clear. Boil quickly 
ten minutes. Serve very hot. A little cream or an egg may be 
added before serving. A little chopped parsley may be added if 
liked. 

Tomato Soup 

4 cups (1 qt.) canned tomatoes | teaspoon pepper 

1 Spanish onion, sliced i teaspoon powdered nutmeg 
4 cups (1 qt.) stock or water 1 teaspoon sugar 

2 teaspoons salt ^ cup (2 ozs.) tapioca or sago 

4 tablespoons (2 ozs.) butter substitute 

Into soup pot put tomatoes, onion, water, seasonings, and 
sugar, cook twenty minutes, add tapioca and butter, and simmer 
forty minutes, strain and serve. 

Vegetable Soup 

1 carrot, shredded 1 bay leaf 

1 turnip, shredded 4 tablespoons (1 oz.) flour 

1 onion, shredded 2 teaspoons salt 

1 stalk celery, shredded ^ teaspoon pepper 

1 lettuce, shredded 3 cups (1| pts.) stock 

1 small cucumber, shredded 1 cup (* pt.) milk 

4 tablespoons (2 ozs.) butter substitute Crotltons of fried bread 

Prepare vegetables, and cut fine into lengths about one inch, 
putting them in water as done to keep them a g^ood color. Melt 
butter substitute, add drained vegetables, bay leaf, and season- 
ings. Cook slowly ten or fifteen minutes with lid on, shaking and 
stirring frequently. Bring stock to boiling point and add it to 
other ingredients; now add flour dissolved in milk. Boil six 
minutes and serve hot with croutons of fried bread. 

Vegetable stock is made by boiling such vegetables as onions, 
carrots, turnip, celery, and beans in water with seasonings, and 
herbs. It is then drained and used instead of plain water fo» 
soups. 



80 ECONOMICAL COOKERY 

Strawberry Soup 

1 box strawberries ^ tablespoon cornstarch 

1 cup (^ lb.) sugar | lemon 

6 cups (3 pts.) water Rusks, or toast, or puffed rice 

Wash and pick strawberries. Take one cup of the smaller 
ones and sprinkle a little of the sugar over them and set aside in 
a cool place. Now mash remaining strawberries with a silver 
spoon, and add strained juice of lemon. Mix sugar with corn- 
starch, dissolve in w^ater and bring to boiling point, pour it over 
mashed fruit, stand forty minutes, and then strain through a 
sieve. Put whole strawberries into a soup tureen, pour soup 
over them and serve cold. Hand rusks, toast or puffed rice 
separately. Raspberry or cherry soup can be madp in the same 
way. 




l)UMPLiN<iS IN Japanese Cassekolk. l'a<je 09. 




Soup Maigre, served "en Marmite."' Page 7S. 




\ 



4^ii^'^-'*^-jk\' 





Making Strawhekry Soup. Page SO. 




FiLLETIM. A Fl.OlNDKK. I'ClCje cV^. 




Plamvli) 1"i>h. Page 6'7. 




Fish Cakes. Page 85. 



CHAPTER VIII 

FISH 

" 'Tis very fresh and sweet, sir, 
The fish was taken but this night." 

Fish may be divided into three classes — white, oily, and shell 
fish. The first two, " white " and " oily ", may be served in 
the place of meat for breakfast or luncheon, and in a dinner of 
several courses follow the soup. 

" White " fish is not so nourishing as the '' oily ", as in the 
former class nearly all the oil is contained in the liver, but fish 
belonging to this class are more easily digested, and therefore 
more suitable for invalids. Oily fish, as salmon, mackerel, 
etc., are very nourishing but not suitable for people with weak 
digestions. All fish must be perfectly fresh, as the flesh de- 
composes very rapidly, giving rise to danger of poisoning and 
even death. When choosing fish see that the eyes are bright 
and prominent, the gills red, the flesh firm, and the smell good. 
If the fish is decomposing, the bones on being removed leave a 
red mark, and the flesh on the underside, if strongly pressed 
between the thumb and finger, will easily crush, leaving only 
the skin in the fingers. Bloodshot eyes show the fish is either 
stale or out of condition. Fish may be boiled, baked, steamed, 
stewed, fried, grilled, or planked. Almost the same rules apply 
to the cooking of fish as to that of meat, namely : To keep in 
the juices, to develop the flavor, and to make the dish pleasing 
to the eye and appetite. 

Fish is most useful in the dietary of the convalescent, or those 
leading sedentary lives, who suffer from indigestion. 

81 



bZ ECONOMICAL COOKERY 

Baked Herrings 

4 herrings 1 teaspoon onion juice 

4 tablespoons (2 ozs.) bread crumbs 1 teaspoon salt 

2 tablespoons (1 oz.) drippings | teaspoon pepper 

1 tablespoon chopped parsley 1 tablespoon flour 
2 tablespoons milk 

Cut herrings down back, remove bones, cut off heads, wash 
them in salt and water, dry and dip each fish in flour. Grease 
baking tin, lay in two of the fish, skin downwards. Mix bread 
crumbs, drippings, parsley, seasonings, and milk together and 
spread this mixture over herrings. Lay other herrings on with 
skin uppermost. Cover with a greased paper and bake in 
moderate oven thirty minutes. 

Baked Salmon 

1 pound cooked or canned salmon ^ cup (1 gill) milk 

2 tablespoons mashed potatoes ^ teaspoon salt 

2 tablespoons bread crumbs | teaspoon pepper 

2 tablespoons (1 oz.) butter, melted | teaspoon paprika 

2 eggs, beaten 1 teaspoon lemon juice 

Pick over salmon, remove bones and skin. Chop salmon, add 
potatoes, bread crumbs, butter, eggs, milk, and seasonings. Mix 
well and turn into greased baking dish, sprinkle with bread 
crumbs, and dot with a few small pieces of butter. Bake in 
moderate oven three fourths of an hour, or until set. 

Boiled Fish with Sauce 

2 1 pounds codfish 8 gingersnaps 

4 medium-sized onions, sliced 12 whole allspice 

1 lemon 1 tablespoon (^ oz.) butter 

Prepare fish and boil in boiling salted water until it is tender, 
using only enough water to cover. Take out fish and lay on 
platter. Now add onions to water and cook until tender, add 
strained lemon juice, gingersnaps grated, allspice, and butter. 
Let this boil six minutes, then lay in fish and let heat thoroughly. 
Serve on hot dish. 



FISH 83 



Canned Salmon and Tomatoes 

1 can tomatoes ^ teaspoon pepper 

1 onion, sliced fine 1 tablespoon (§ oz.) butter 

1 tablespoon chopped parsley 1 tablespoon flour 

1 teaspoon salt 1 tablespoon (^ oz.) sugar 

1 can salmon 

Pour tomatoes into a pan, add onion and parsley, cook until 
onion is tender. Rub through a sieve, return to pan, add 
seasonings, butter, flour mixed with three tablespoons of cold 
water; add sugar and cook until mixture thickens. Pour over 
salmon which has been heated and flaked. Serve hot. 

Curried Cod 

1^ pounds cod 4 tablespoons (2 ozs.) drippings 

1 onion 1 tablespoon curry powder 

1 cup (I pt.) gravy or stock 1 teaspoon sugar 

1 tablespoon lemon juice 3 tablespoons chopped cocoanut 

1 teaspoon salt Rice, boiled 

Fry fish in one tablespoon of the drippings. Put remaining 
drippings in a saucepan, brown in it the onion, add stock, lemon 
juice, salt, curry powder, cocoanut, and sugar, cook twenty 
minutes, then add the fish divided into flakes, and cook ten 
minutes. Serve with rice. 



Deviled Oysters 

1 tablespoon (^ oz.) butter 1 egg, beaten 

2 tablespoons (f oz.) flour J 

1 cup (I pt.) hot milk 2 teaspoons chopped parsley 

2 cups (1 pt.) oysters 1 teaspoon salt 

2 tablespoons bread crumbs | teaspoon pepper 

^ teaspoon paprika 

Blend butter and flour in saucepan over the fire, add milk and 
cook until smooth, add oysters drained, and bread crumbs. 
Cook five minutes^ take from fire, add egg, and seasonings. Pour 
into greased baking dish, sprinkle with crumbs, and bake in 
hot oven six minutes. Serve hot. 



84 ECONOMICAL COOKERY 

Filleted Fish Baked in Batter 

1 flounder 1 tablespoon chopped parsley 

1 teaspoon salt 2 tablespoons (1 oz.) butter substitute 

5 teaspoon pepper melted 

Wash flounder and cut off fins. Lay it on a board with tail 
end nearest you and dark side uppermost. Make a cut across 
skin just above tail, slip a knife under it and raise skin slightly 
from flesh. Then with right thumb loosen skin all the way up 
right side, then loosen up other side in same way, this time using 
left thumb. Then hold tail of fish firmly down on board ; take 
hold of loosened skin with a cloth, and pull it off quickly, drawing 
it towards head. The white skin may be removed in the same 
way, but this is frequently left on. 

To Fillet Flounder, Cut down center of back and gently raise 
fillets, pressmg knife close to bone. Tw^o fillets are taken from 
each side. It will be found easier to raise first fillet from left- 
hand side of fish, working from head towards tail; then turn 
fish round, and raise second fillet, v/orkmg from tail towards 
head. Turn fish right over, and do other side in the same 
manner. 

Cut fillets into neat pieces, and put them into greased fireproof 
dish, sprinkle over seasonings and melted butter substitute, pom- 
over batter, made as below, and bake in moderate oven forty 
minutes. Serve hot. 

Batter 

1 cup (i lb.) flour 1 cup (I pt.) milk 

2 eggs 1 teaspoon lemon juice 

Sift flour into bowl, break one egg into it, add one half of 
milk by degrees, then add other egg and remaining milk. Beat 
well until it is perfectly smooth and full of air bubbles. Allow 
to stand thirty minutes, add lemon juice, and use. 

Allowing a batter to stand thirt}^ minutes makes starch grains 
swell, so that they burst more rapidly when placed in hot oven, 
and are thus more thoroughly cooked. Also the standing allows 
the air that is entangled during the process of beating to cool 



FISH 85 

down to a lower temperature, so that when brought in contact 
with heat its capacity for expansion is greater, thus making 
the batter lighter. 

Fish Cakes 

2 cups (1 pt.) cooked fresh 1 tablespoon (^ oz.) butter sub- 

or salt codfish stitute 

2 cups (1 pt.) hot mashed po- j teaspoon pepper 

tatoes Salt to taste 

4 tablespoons hot milk 1 egg, beaten 

Chop fish, add potatoes, butter, seasonings, and hot milk; 
beat well and when cool, shape into round cakes. Brush over 
with egg, toss in bread crumbs or corn meal, and fry in plenty of 
smoking hot fat until nicely browned. Drain and serve hot. 
To cook salt codfish, soak fish three hours, drain, cover with 
cold water, bring to the boil, then simmer until fish is tender. 
Drain and chop fine. 

Another Method. To two cups of cooked fish, add one cup 
very thick white sauce, salt, pepper, and paprika to taste, one 
teaspoon each chopped parsley and lemon juice, and allow to 
cool. Shape into neat cakes, balls, or croquettes, brush over 
with milk or beaten egg, toss in bread crumbs or com meal, or 
crushed vermicelli, and fry in smoking hot fat. Drain and serve 
hot. Garnish with parsley. 

Fish Kromeskies 

1 pound chopped cooked fish ^ teaspoon pepper 

2 tablespoons (1 oz.) drippings 2 teaspoons chopped parsley 
4 tablespoons (1 oz.) flour 1 teaspoon lemon juice 

I cup (I gill) milk 1 egg 

1 teaspoon salt Thin sHces bacon 

Frying batter 

Blend drippings and flour in a saucepan, add milk, and bring 
to the boil, then add seasonings, parsley, lemon juice, egg, and 
fish, mix well, and turn out on a plate to cool. When firm, divide 
the mixture into ten pieces, and form into neat rounds, using a 
little flour to prevent mixture sticking to hands. Wrap each 
round in slice of bacon, dip each into frying batter, coating them 
well, lift out and drop into smoking hot fat. Fry until brown, 
and drain on paper. Serve hot garnished with parsley. 



86 ECONOMICAL COOKERY 

Fish Pudding 

1 pound cod or haddock 2 tablespoons cream or milk 
4 large potatoes 1 egg, beaten 

2 tablespoons (1 oz.) butter sub- ^ teaspoon salt 
stitute ^ teaspoon paprika 

1 teaspoon lemon juice 

Wash fish and boil until tender in boiling salted water. Boil 
potatoes, drain and mash with butter, cream, and egg. Bone 
and flake fish, mix with potatoes, adding seasonings. Fill greased 
fireproof dish with mixture and bake thirty minutes in moderate 
oven. 

Haddock ^ La Cr§me 

1 fresh haddock 4 tablespoons (1 oz.) flour 

1 tablespoon chopped parsley 1 cup (| pt.) milk or cream 

2 tablespoons (1 oz.) butter sub- 1 teaspoon salt 
stitute ^ teaspoon pepper 

Remove all bones and skin from haddock and cut fleshy part 
into neat lengths about two inches wide by three inches long. 

Sprinkle parsley into greased fireproof dish, and place in the 
pieces of fish. Blend butter substitute and flour together in 
saucepan, add milk and stir until boiling, then pour over fish. 
Stand dish in pan containing some boiling water, and put in hot 
oven ten minutes. Sprinkle over with seasonings and chopped 
parsley and serve hot. Kippers, smoked salmon, or other dried 
fish are good done in a similar way. 

The skins and bones can be used for fish stock. 

Kedgeree of Fish 

1 smoked haddock or 1 pound 4 tablespoons (2 ozs.) drippings 
cold cooked fish | teaspoon salt 

1 cup (4 ozs.) rice | teaspoon pepper 

2 hard-cooked eggs | teaspoon nutmeg 

2 tablespoons chopped parsley 

Free fish from skin and bones, and break it up into small 
pieces. Wash rice and boil in plenty of boiling salted water 
until tender; dram and cool. Melt drippings in a saucepan; 
put in fish, rice, seasonings, and whites of eggs cut in small 
pieces ; mix well and stir over fire for five minutes, and keep hot. 



FISH 87 

Dish up in the form of a pyramid on hot plate or platter. Gar- 
nish with parsley and yolks of eggs rubbed through a coarse 
sieve. Return to oven for a few minutes, and serve hot for 
breakfast or luncheon. 

Mackerel au Gratin 

3 mackerel 1 tablespoon vinegar 

1 tablespoon chopped parsley Bread crumbs 

1 teaspoon salt 2 tablespoons (1 oz.) butter sub- 

I teaspoon pepper stitute 

1 onion, chopped 1 teaspoon lemon juice 

Grease a fireproof dish, scatter over it a layer of parsley, 
seasonings, and onion. Fillet mackerel and put fillets on top of 
mixture, pour over vinegar and cover fish with bread crumbs, 
dot with butter substitute, and bake until well browned over 
top. Just before serving sprinkle over lemon juice. 

Planked Fish 

4-pound shad, or whitefish | cup (4 ozs.) drippings, melted 

Olive oil 1 teaspoon lemon juice 

1 teaspoon salt ^ lemon, sliced 

I teaspoon white pepper Parsley 

Mashed potatoes 

Split shad down the back. Heat plank very hot, lay fish upon 
it, skin side down, brush fish with oil, and sprinkle with season- 
ings. Bake forty minutes in hot oven, basting with drippings. 
It may be cooked under flame in gas range. Serve with lemon 
juice sprinkled over, lemon slices, and parsley. Garnish with 
mashed potatoes put through pastry bag and star tube. The 
fish should be sent to the table on plank. 

Haddock or whitefish may be cooked in the same way. 

Salmon Roll with Egg Sauce 

1 can salmon j teaspoon paprika 

1 cup (4 ozs.) bread crumbs 1 pinch powdered nutmeg 

2 eggs, beaten 2 tablespoons milk 

I teaspoon salt ^ cup (2 ozs.) cracker crumbs 

I teaspoon pepper 2 tablespoons (1 oz.) butter, 

melted 



88 ECONOMICAL COOKERY 

Mix salmon, bread crumbs, eggs, seasonings, and milk. Mix 
and form into a roll and place on greased tin. Mix cracker 
crumbs with butter, and spread over top and sides of roll. 
Bake thirty minutes in moderate oven. 

Egg Sauce 

1 tablespoon (| oz.) butter 2 hard-cooked eggs, chopped 

1 tablespoon flour 1 tablespoon tomato catchup 

2 cups (1 pt.) milk | teaspoon salt 

I teaspoon pepper 

Blend butter and flour in a saucepan over the fire, add milk 
and stir until boiling, cook five minutes, and stir in eggs, 
catchup, and seasonings. Pour over roll and serve hot or cold. 

Scallops on Skewers 

24 large scallops ^ teaspoon paprika 

3 tablespoons flour Broiled bacon 

1 teaspoon salt Strips buttered toast 

i teaspoon pepper Lemon 

Parsley- 
Scald scallops in boiling water three minutes ; drain and wipe 
dry. Roll in flour seasoned with salt, pepper, and paprika, and 
fry a few at a time in smoking hot fat. Have ready some 
wooden or metal skewers, put scallops on these, either alone 
or alternating with pieces of broiled bacon, and lay each skewer 
on toast. Garnish with lemon slices and sprigs of parsley and 
serve hot. 

Shrimp Croquettes 

1 can shrimp | teaspoon red pepper 

1 cup (I pt.) stock or milk 2 tablespoons (1 oz.) butter 

I teaspoon pepper 4 tablespoons (1 oz.) flour 

1 teaspoon salt 1 egg, beaten 

Bread crumbs 

Blend butter and flour in a saucepan over the fire, add stock 
and boil eight minutes, then add seasonings, and shrimp slightly 
chopped ; reheat but do not boil. Spread on a plate and when 
cold form into neat croquettes. Brush over ^ lAi egg, toss in 
bread crumbs and fry in smoking hot fat. Dram and serve hot. 



FISH 89 

Few people realize the high food value of the shrimp. The 
constituents of this shellfish rank with those found in cheese, 
meat, and eggs. Nearly all the edible portion of the shrimp is 
protein. The refuse can be turned into an excellent land 
fertilizer, containing over eleven per cent, nitrogen calculated 
as ammonia. 

Soused Mackerel 

4 mackerel 1 teaspoon salt 

3 bay leaves I teaspoon pepper 

3 cloves Vinegar 
Water 

Clean fish and arrange them closely in fireproof baking dish. 
Sprinkle bay leaves, cloves, salt, and pepper over fish. Cover 
with equal quantities of vinegar and water, and bake two hours 
in slow oven. Serve cold in liquor in which they have been 
cooked. 

Stuffed Flounder 

1 flounder 1 egg, beaten 

^ teaspoon pepper 3 tablespoons bread crumbs 

1 tablespoon chopped parsley 2 tablespoons (1 oz.) butter sub- 

1 teaspoon salt stitute 

I teaspoon grated lemon rind 1 tablespoon chopped, cooked, or 

1 cup (I pt.) brown stock or gravy canned lobster, or shrimp 

Skin flounder on both sides, and cut down center ; raise fillets 
one inch on each side of the bone, but do not remove them. 
Mix seasonings, egg, bread crumbs, and butter substitute in a 
bowl, lay mixture under each fillet, place in well-greased tin, 
and pour stock or gravy around, and bake thirty minutes, basting 
occasionally. Serve on hot platter, stram around gravy, and 
dust over fish a few browned bread criunbs. 

To Bake a Flounder. Remove all dark skin from fish, flour 
it, dip in beaten egg or milk, and roll in bread crumbs or corn 
meal with salt and pepper to taste. Put flounder into greased 
fireproof dish, dot with butter substitute, and bake in moderate 
oven thirty-five minutes, basting occasionally with melted fat. 
Just before serving sprinkle over one tablespoon chopped parsley 
and two teaspoons lemon juice. 



90 ECONOMICAL COOKERY 

Stewed Lobster 

1 can lobster | teaspoon mustard 
3 tablespoons (1| ozs.) butter sub- | teaspoon pepper 

stitute 5 teaspoon salt 

2 teaspoons cornstarch 3 cups (1^ pts.) milk, hot 

If a good brand of lobster is selected, it is almost as good as 
the freshly caught crustacean. Open lobster can and turn out 
contents into a china bowl one hour before using. Pick meat 
into small pieces, then heat them in butter substitute, add corn- 
starch, mustard, pepper, salt, and milk. Simmer ten minutes 
and serve at once on hot plates. 

Stuffed Smelts 

14 smelts 1 teaspoon salt 

8 oysters I teaspoon pepper 

1 cup (4 ozs.) bread crumbs 1 teaspoon lemon juice 

1 tablespoon drippings, melted Parsley 

1 egg, beaten Fish sauce 

Wipe, clean, and trim smelts. Chop oj^sters, add bread 
crumbs, seasonings, lemon juice, and strained oyster liquor, mix 
well together and stuff smelts. Fasten edges together over stuff- 
ing, either sewing them or using little wooden skewers. Brush 
fish over with egg and roll in bread crumbs. Bake on a greased 
tin in moderate oven fifteen minutes. Then remove thread 
or skewers and serve on a hot dish garnished with parsley. 
Hand fish sauce separately. 

Salmon Fricassee 

1^ pounds salmon 3 lumps sugar 

1 cup (^ pt.) water 1 shallot, sliced 

1 teaspoon salt 2 teaspoons mustard 

^ teaspoon white pepper 4 tablespoons vinegar 

1 clove 6 tomatoes, peeled 

1 blade mace 1 tablespoon chopped parsley 
Triangles of toast 

Cut salmon into pieces one inch square ; put pieces into sauce- 
pan with water, seasonings, sugar, shallot, and mustard mixed 
with vinegar. Bring to boiling point, add tomatoes cut in small 
pieces, and simmer three fourths of an hour. Add parsley and 
serve very hot, garnished with toast. 



FISH 91 

Sweet and Sour Fish 

4 pounds trout or other fish 1 lemon, sHced 

1 onion I cup (2 ozs.) almonds, blanched 

1 tablespoon mixed spices and chopped 

1 cup (3 ozs.) Sultana raisins 5 gingersnaps, grated 

2 bay leaves 1 cup (^ lb.) sugar 

1 cup (I pt.) vinegar 

Clean fish and cut in small pieces. Cut onion in fine pieces 
and mix with spices ; add raisins, bay leaves, lemon, and cover 
with water. Bring to boiling point, add fish, almonds, ginger- 
snaps, sugar, and vinegar. Cook slowly one and one half 
hours and serve hot. 

Scalloped Oysters 

24 oysters 1 teaspoon flour 

I blade mace J teaspoon salt 

1 tablespoon (^ oz.) butter I teaspoon pepper 

Bread crumbs 

Put oysters and liquor into a saucepan, place it over fire and, 
when they are slightly cooked, drain them upon a sieve, catching 
liquor into another pan; remove beards and put oysters into 
liquor, add mace and place pan again upon fire ; when it boils 
add butter blended with flour, and seasonings. Shake pan over 
fire until sauce thickens. Have scallop shells ready, well 
buttered and crumbed, place oysters in them with sauce, sprinkle 
bread crumbs over them, dot with tiny pieces of butter, and 
bake in moderate oven from twelve to fifteen minutes. 

Tuna Fish Souffle 

1 can tuna fish | teaspoon paprika 

1 tablespoon (^ oz.) butter 1 cup (^ pt.) milk 

1 tablespoon flour 1 teaspoon chopped onion 

i teaspoon salt 1 tablespoon chopped parsley 

5 teaspoon pepper 2 eggs, separated 

2 tablespoons bread crumbs 

Turn tuna fish on to a plate, and drain off liquor. Remove 
skin and bones, and break into flakes. Blend butter and flour 
in a saucepan over fire, add milk and stir until thick and smooth. 



92 ECONOMICAL COOKERY 

add seasonings, onion, and parsley and stir over fire a few minutes. 
Set aside and when cooled stir in egg yolks and fold in stiffly 
beaten whites. Turn into greased fireproof dish, sprinkle 
crumbs on top and bake in hot oven ten to fifteen minutes. 
Serve hot. This amount, using a fairly large can of tuna fish, 
will serve five or six persons. 

Tuna fish, which is a comparatively new addition to the list 
of canned fish, is called the poultry of the sea, for its flaky, white 
meat resembles in appearance and taste the breast meat of 
chicken and turkey. 



CHAPTER IX 
MEATS 

" A plain leg of mutton, my Lucy, 
I prithee get ready at three ! 
Have it smoking, and tender, and juicy, 
And what better meat can there be? " 

The term meat is, commonly speaking, applied only to beef, 
mutton, lamb, veal, and pork. 

Soon after an animal has been killed, rigor mortis sets in, which 
lasts for a varying number of days. During this period, meat, 
if cooked, is usually tough, and not of such a good flavor; it 
is customary to let it hang until this toughness passes off. 
During this stage, an acid forms in the meat which acts upon 
the hardening matter, redissolves it, renders the meat tender 
and juicy, and often improves the flavor. 

A full-grown animal is richer in extractives than a young 
animal. The extractives are the chief flavoring matters in meat, 
of no actual value as body-building food, but the sapid properties 
of extractives make the meat more stimulating, and thus they 
aid digestion. 

Meat consists of muscle fiber, bone, and fat. The part of 
meat that is usually cooked and eaten is the muscle fiber. The 
bone and fat form but a small part of the meat as it is prepared 
for the table, though they are purchased with it at the market. 

The cheaper cuts of meat contain more nutriment than the 
expensive ones, but are cheaper because they are not so tender. 
They must be cooked by a long slow process to make them tender 
and palatable. A fireless cooker is excellent for this purpose. 

An ox from four to five years of age yields the fullest flavored 
joints; in older animals the fibers tend to become coarse and 

93 



94 ECONOMICAL COOKERY 

tough ; in young animals like the calf the flesh is immature, and 
not so rich in flavoring matters ; for this reason gravies or 
sauces are served with veal. 

The time occupied in the digestion of meat depends greatly 
upon its condition and the method of cooking. A tender, 
juicy, rare steak should not require more than two and one 
half hours, whereas boiled salted beef will require over four hours, 
roast beef about three and one half hours, and fresh boiled beef 
about three hours. Ox liver and kidneys require about four 
hours for digestion. Pork is more difficult of digestion than most 
meats on account of the excess of fat, although this fat melts 
at a lower temperature than that of beef or mutton. Roast 
pork requires over five hours for digestion, boiled pork about 
four hours, and salt pork a little over three. Pork contains 
about ten per cent, of albumens and twenty per cent, fat, and 
nearly seventy per cent, water. 

Baked Pork Chops 

Pork chops Pepper 

Flour Tomato catchup 

Salt Water 

Take as many chops as necessary, dredge them with flour, salt, 
and pepper, and place them in a baking pan or iron spider. Put 
one teaspoon of tomato catchup on each chop. Pour in enough 
water to nearly cover the chops, then place in moderate oven and 
bake two hours, turning them when nearly done to brown on 
other side. 

Beef Heart, Stuffed and Roasted 

1 beef heart 1 egg, beaten 

2 tablespoons (1 oz.) butter sub- 2 tablespoons milk 
stitute ^ teaspoon salt 

1 tablespoon chopped onion i teaspoon pepper 

3 tomatoes, skinned and chopped i teaspoon celery salt 
1 cup (l lb.) bread crumbs ^ cup (4 ozs.) drippings 

1 cup (I pt.) stock or water 

Beef heart is considered coarse and indigestible, but it can 
be made palatable by being stuffed and carefully roasted or 



MEATS 95 

braised. Remove lobes and all pieces of gristle. Wash heart 
in several waters, allow it to lie in cold salted water thirty- 
minutes, and then wash again. Cut away membrane which 
divides the two cavities, and be careful that inside is quite free 
from blood. Melt butter substitute, add onion, cook three 
minutes, add tomatoes, and cook ten minutes. Cool, and add 
bread crumbs, egg, milk, and seasonings ; place this stuffing in 
heart, tying piece of greased paper over to keep forcemeat in. 
Melt drippings in roasting tin, place in heart, and roast in hot 
oven two hours, basting frequently. Remove paper, place 
heart on hot platter, and make a gravy in pan with stock or 
water. Serve with red currant jelly. 

Prepare sheep's hearts in same way as above, cook eighty 
minutes and serve like beef heart. 

Beef Olives 

1^ pounds lean steak 1 small onion, chopped 

3 tablespoons bread crumbs 1 egg, beaten 

1 teaspoon salt 4 tablespoons (2 ozs.) drippings 

i teaspoon pepper 1 tablespoon flour 

1 tablespoon chopped suet 2 cups (1 pt.) stock or water 

1 tablespoon chopped parsley 

Cut meat into thin strips, four and one half inches long and 
two inches wide, and beat them with a rolling pin. Put trim- 
mings of meat through a food chopper, add to them bread 
crumbs, seasonings, suet, onion, and mix together with egg. 
Spread a little of this mixture on each length of meat, roll it 
up, and skewer or tie it. Melt drippings in a saucepan and 
brown olives in it ; then remove them from pan, add flour and 
brown it also, add stock or water gradually, and when boiling, 
put back olives and simmer one and one half hours. Dish meat 
in a ring and strain over gravy. Sprinkle with parsley and serve 
hot. 

Boiled Lamb's Head 

1 lamb's head 6 bacon slices, fried 

2 teaspoons salt 3 slices lemon 

1 onion, sliced 2 cups (1 pt.) white sauce 

1 carrot, sliced 2 tablespoons chopped parsley 



96 ECONOMICAL COOKERY 

If carefully prepared in the following manner a lamb's head 
makes a delicate dish almost equal to calf's head. Wash 
head thoroughly, cut open, place in a saucepan, cover with cold 
water and bring to the boil. Pour off water, and substitute 
fresh hot water ; bring to boiling point ; skim well and add salt, 
onion, and carrot. Simmer two and one half to three hours. 
Drain and place on hot dish. Add parsley and one tablespoon 
lemon juice to white sauce, bring to a boil, and pour over head. 
Garnish with bacon and lemon slices. 

Brain sauce may be served separately, but it is not necessary. 

Boiled Neck or Shoulder of Mutton 

1 shoulder or neck mutton 2 leeks, diced 

Salt 1 turnip, diced 

1 bunch celery, diced 1 bunch herbs 

1 carrot, shced 1 teaspoon whole white peppers 

Tie meat in clean cloth, place in saucepan with enough boiling 
water to well cover it, add salt to taste, vegetables, and whole 
white peppers ; bring to the boil, skim well, and then simmer 
very gently for two and one half to three hours, according to 
size of meat. Take up meat and remove cloth, place meat on 
hot platter, strain a little of the gravy round and garnish with the 
vegetables. Serve hot with caper sauce in a sauceboat. 

The liquor can be used for soups. 

Leg of mutton may be cooked in the same way. 

Braised Steak 

3 pounds steak or top of round 1 tablespoon flour or cornstarch 

1 teaspoon salt 2 cups (1 pt.) stock or water 
Red pepper 1 bunch herbs 

2 tablespoons (1 oz.) butter sub- 2 onions, chopped 
stitute 2 carrots, sliced 

1 turnip, sliced 

Season meat with salt and red pepper, and put it into a sauce- 
pan with butter substitute, cover pan, and fry fifteen minutes ; 
then sprinkle in flour or cornstarch, and shake pan well to 
prevent steak sticking to the bottom, add water or stock, bring 



MEATS 97 

to the boil, skim well, add herbs and onions. Cook one hour, 
then add vegetables, and cook thirty minutes longer. Replenish 
by more boiling water or stock as it reduces. When cooked, dish 
on hot platter, strain gravy round, and serve hot. One peeled 
and sHced tomato is a good addition. 

Boston Stew 

1 cup (^ pt.) dried beans ^ teaspoon pepper 

1| pounds pickled pork 3 tomatoes, skinned and sliced 

2 tablespoons (^ oz.) flour or 3 onions, sHced 
potato flour 

Wash beans, cover with cold water, and soak overnight. Next 
day drain and put them into a saucepan with fresh cold water, 
cook them gently one hour, then place half of them ui a greased 
fireproof dish. On top lay pork and cover with remainder of 
beans. Thicken water in which beans were cooked with flour, 
add pepper, and pour over pork and beans, which should be 
just covered. On top place slices of tomato, and on these lay 
very thin slices of onion. Cover closely and cook in oven or on 
top of stove for about three hours. When space permits, pota- 
toes in quarters may be laid on top forty minutes before serving. 
When flavor of tomato is disliked, a bouillon cube should be 
mixed with the liquid before thickening it with flour. 

Crown Roast of Lamb 

1 crown roast 4 cups (2 pts.) cooked peas 

4 cups (2 pts.) mashed potatoes Salt and pepper 

Mint sauce 

Select parts from two loins of mutton or lamb containing 
ribs, scrape flesh from bone between ribs, as far down as the 
lean meat, and trim off backbone. Keep ribs on the outside, 
shaping each piece in a semicircle, and sew together to form a 
crown. Trim ends of bones evenly and do not leave them too 
long. Cover bone ends with pieces of fat salt pork, or wrap each 
rib with bacon to prevent bones from burning. Dust with flour, 
salt, and pepper, place on a rack, cover with greased paper, and 
cook in hot oven for one and one fourth hours, basting frequently 



98 ECONOMICAL COOKERY 

with hot fat. Remove to hot platter, take off pork, cover bones 
with paper frills, garnish with potatoes and peas, and serve with 
mint sauce. 

Dutch Stew 

2 tablespoons (1 oz.) drippings 6 potatoes 

2 onions, sliced 1 teaspoon salt 

Ij pounds neck of mutton | teaspoon pepper 

1 cabbage § teaspoon celery salt 

Melt drippings, add onions, and fry. Wash mutton, put it 
in pot with water which clings to it, cover with lid, and cook 
gently forty-five minutes. Trim, wash, and slice cabbage into 
eight pieces and put these in water ; peel potatoes and cut into 
slices one half inch thick, place these also in water. Lift cabbage 
and potatoes dripping with water and pack them round meat, add 
seasonings, cover with lid, and simmer forty-five minutes longer. 
This stew must be cooked very slowly, or it will burn ; but it is 
delicious if properly treated. 

Ham Baked in Pastry 

1 medium-sized ham 4 cups (1 lb.) barley flour 

2 cups (I lb.) flour Cold water 

^ cup (4 ozs.) drippings 

Wash ham and soak it in lukewarm water six hours. Then 
saw off knuckle bone, and if ham is very large, boil it carefully 
one hour. Into a bowl sift flours and make into stiff paste with 
water. Roll out on floured baking board. Drain and dry ham, 
place it on pastry, wet edges of paste with water, and wrap up 
ham in it. Place it in roasting pan with drippings and bake in 
moderate oven, basting frequently. The time will depend upon 
size and thickness of ham ; about three hours should be allowed 
for a medium-sized ham, or twenty minutes to the pound and 
twenty minutes over. When ready, remove crust and skin. 
If served hot, a wine sauce may be served separately. If served 
cold, sprinkle it thickly with browned bread crumbs. Place 
ham in oven a few minutes in order to make crumbs adhere. 

If only a half ham is being baked, the preliminary boiling 
may be dispensed with. 



MEATS 99 

A Simple Way to Bake a Ham. Scrub a medium-sized ham 
well and let soak in cold water overnight. Place ham meat side 
down in a roaster or deep pan and fill nearly to top with cold 
water. Cover with lid, place in oven, and cook two hours with- 
out turning. Turn and bake two hours longer or until a fork 
will pierce it easily. Remove from oven, skin, stick in a few 
cloves, and cover with plenty of brown sugar. Return to oven 
and let remain until browned. Serve with spinach, Brussels 
sprouts, or green peas. 

Hungarian Goulash 

2 pounds flank steak Cold water 

Salt, pepper, and paprika Fresh or canned tomatoes 

Sliced onions Small peeled potatoes 

This Hungarian dish is inexpensive and appetizing. Cut 
steak into cubes and arrange on the bottom of a saucepan or 
casserole. Season with salt, pepper, and paprika, and cover 
with a layer of onions and so on, until dish is as full as desired. 
Add water just to show above meat, then place over fire, and 
let come to a boil. Allow two cups of tomatoes to each four 
cups of meat and potatoes. Put these on top of meat, but do 
not stir. Simmer two hours or until meat is tender. Add 
potatoes, pushing meat to one side to make room for them, cook 
twenty minutes longer, and serve. 

Irish Stew 

2 or 3 pounds neck or breast of 1 teaspoon salt 

mutton or lamb | teaspoon pepper 

16 potatoes, sliced | teaspoon paprika 

4 onions, sliced 4 teaspoons chopped parsley 

Wipe meat and cut it in small pieces, removing all skin and 
superfluous fat. Put meat into a saucepan, add seasonings, 
and cover with warm water. Bring to boiling point and remove 
all scum, then add vegetables and more seasonings if necessary. 
Put lid on pan and simmer slowly one and three fourths hours. 
Shake pan occasionally while stew is cooking, but remove lid 
as little as possible. If liquid dries up, add a very little hot water, 



R.'^vSOS 



100 ECONOMICAL COOKERY 

but do not make stew watery. Arrange on hot platter and 
sprinkle over parsley. 

Other vegetables may be added if liked, and one tablespoon 
of tomato or mushroom catchup or Worcestershire sauce may be 
poured in at the last. Serve hot. 

Kabab 

1| pounds lean veal 1 small onion, shced 

Salt and pepper I lemon 

Bruised caraway seeds Sour cream 

4 tablespoons (2 ozs.) butter Parsley 

substitute Crotitons toasted bread 

Remove all skin and fat from veal, cut it into strips two and 
one half inches long by one inch wide, and not exceeding three 
fourths inch in thickness, and sprinkle with a mixture of salt, 
pepper, and caraway seeds to taste. Melt butter substitute 
in saucepan, add onion, fry slowly, add strained lemon juice, 
place in veal, and brown nicely over brisk heat. Pour over 
sufficient sour cream to thoroughly moisten it, turn whole into 
fireproof dish, cover, and stand in moderate oven ; let cook gently 
until tender, and serve garnished with parsley, slices of lemon, 
and crotitons of toasted bread. 

Kol Dolmer 

1 pound sirloin steak ^ teaspoon paprika 

I pound pork tenderloin 1 onion, grated 

1 cup (^ lb.) rice Cabbage leaves 

2 teaspoons salt Butter substitute 

^ teaspoon pepper 1 cup (^ pt.) milk or cream 

Put meats through chopper. Wash and boil rice in boiling 
salted water until tender, then drain and add to meat with 
seasonings and onion. Wilt some cabbage leaves by pouring 
hot water over them. Roll a tablespoon of mixture in a cabbage 
leaf, and when all are finished place them in a greased baking pan, 
spread a little butter substitute over each, add cup of hot water, 
and bake forty minutes. Turn and bake till done. Pour over 
milk or cream, make hot, and serve at once. 



MEATS 101 

Lamb en Casserole 

2 pounds shoulder lamb, cut in 1 can corn 

pieces 1 teaspoon salt 

2 onions, sliced | teaspoon pepper 

4 tomatoes, sliced j teaspoon paprika 

3 potatoes, sliced 1 cup (| pt.) water 

Put layer of lamb in bottom of large casserole, place on this 
layer of onions, tomatoes, and layer of potatoes, next layer of 
lamb, and so on, until dish is three fourths full. Season each 
layer with salt, pepper, and paprika, then cover with corn, and 
pour over water. Cover and bake two and one half hours. 

Loin of Veal Roasted 

5 pounds loin veal 4 tablespoons (2 ozs.) butter sub- 
1 teaspoon salt stitute 

I teaspoon pepper 1 cup (^ pt.) stock or water, hot 

Lemon slices 

Wipe meat, and sprinkle with salt and pepper and a little 
flour. Place on rack in roasting pan and place around meat 
strips of salt pork or bacon. Cook four and one half hours, 
basting often with butter substitute melted in water. Serve 
hot, garnished with lemon slices and brown gravy separately. 

Marinaded Cutlets 

1 pound neck of mutton 1 onion, chopped 

6 teaspoons vinegar 1 bay leaf 

1 tablespoon vegetable oil 1 egg, beaten 

I teaspoon pepper Mashed potatoes 

1 teaspoon salt Green peas, or string beans 

Cut mutton into cutlets, allowing two cutlets for each bone, 
beat, and trim neatly. Let them soak one hour in vinegar, oil, 
and seasonings ; drain and dredge with flour. Brush each one 
with egg and roll it in bread crumbs ; repeat egging and crumbing 
a second time, and, if possible, leave them one hour. Fry 
them in plenty of smoking hot fat and drain well before serving 
on mound of mashed potatoes, peas, or beans. 

Veal cutlets, fillets of beef, and fillets of white fish are excellent 
when prepared by same method. 



102 ECONOMICAL COOKERY 

Another Method. Flatten six mutton cutlets from the loin, 
put them in a frying pan, add one onion sliced, one carrot sliced, 
one bunch herbs, and two cups water or stock, cook thirty 
minutes, turning cutlets several times. Boil and mash eight 
potatoes, add two tablespoons hot milk, and salt and pepper to 
taste. Remove cutlets from pan. Take a piece of the potato 
and flatten it out, envelop a cutlet in this, leaving a piece 
of bone sticking out at top, and repeat until all are finished. 
Place them on a greased tin, brush over with milk, and bake 
in hot oven until browned. Serve with gravy. 

Mutton Hot Pot with Dumplings 

2 pounds mutton 1 cup (I lb.) flour or potato flour 

3 slices fat bacon 4 tablespoons (2 ozs.) butter sub- 
1 bunch herbs stitute 

Salt and pepper 2 teaspoons baking powder 

1 teaspoon chopped parsley 

Wipe mutton and cut it in small pieces free from skin and bone ; 
cut bacon also in small pieces and put them into an earthenware 
dish with hot water to cover; add herbs, salt, and pepper to 
taste. One tablespoon chopped onion or a clove of garlic may 
also be added. Put lid on dish and cook slowly on stove or in 
oven one hour, then add dumplings and cook thirty minutes 
longer. 

Sift flour, one half teaspoon salt and baking powder into a bowl, 
cut and rub in butter substitute, add parsley, then mix very 
lightly with water or milk into a softish dough, and put in 
spoonfuls on top of mutton. Serve hot in the same dish. 

Ox Tail with Vegetables 

1 ox tail 1 bay leaf 

4 tablespoons (2 ozs.) butter sub- 4 tablespoons (1 oz.) flour or 
stitute potato flour 

1 carrot, sliced 2 cups (1 pt.) brown stock or 

1 onion, sliced gravy 

1 turnip, sliced Salt and pepper 

1 bunch herbs 2 teaspoons lemon juice 

Cut ox tail in neat joints, put pieces into a saucepan with cold 
water to cover, add one fourth teaspoon salt, and bring to the 



MEATS 103 

boil. Boil eight minutes, drain, and wipe dry. Put butter into 
a saucepan, add vegetables, and place pieces of ox tail on top ; 
cover pan and fry twenty minutes, sprinkle in flour, and add 
stock, seasonings, lemon, and cook gently four hours, adding a 
little hot stock as liquid reduces and removing any fat that may 
rise to surface. Take up pieces of ox tail and place on hot 
platter. Rub vegetables and liquid through a sieve, then 
reheat it and pour over and round ox tail. Garnish with parsley 
and serve hot. 

Pig's Feet with Sauce 

2 pairs pig's feet 1 bay leaf 

Sausage meat 1 carrot, sliced 

Bacon 1 onion, sHced 

1 blade mace 3 cloves 
1 bunch herbs 

Scald pig's feet, slit each foot down, then bone them and 
parboil feet in salted water, drain, and let cool. Spread cut 
side with a little sausage meat^nd wrap each half m slice of 
bacon; tie up with thin twme. Place feet in a saucepan one 
third filled with stock or water, add seasonings, onion, and 
carrot. Brmg to boiluig point and then simmer until quite 
tender. Drain and cool and remove string, then brush over 
with beaten egg or milk and toss in bread crumbs; fry to a 
golden brown in plenty of smoking hot fat. Drain and place 
on hot dish, garnish with parsley, and serve with the following 
sauce : 

Into a saucepan put four tablespoons of vinegar and reduce 
it to one half over the fire ; add one cup brown sauce and three 
finely chopped gherkins. 

Roasted Beef, VUginia Style 

1 medium-sized roast of beef 6 slices bacon 

Salt and white pepper 4 tablespoons stock or water 

Flour 1 bouillon cube 

1 onion, sliced Sweet potatoes 

1 carrot, sliced Brown sugar 

Wipe beef and dredge with mixture of flour, salt, and pepper. 
In roasting pan lay onion, bacon, carrot, and bouillon cube dis- 



104 ECONOMICAL COOKERY 

solved in stock or water. Place roast on this and surround with 
sweet potatoes which have been peeled, salted, peppered, and 
sprinkled over with sugar. Cook in moderate oven, allowing 
twenty minutes for every pound of meat. Baste occasionally 
with hot drippings. The beef and potatoes should be ready 
about the same time. Serve on a hot platter. 

Shoulder of Mutton 

1 good-sized shoulder mutton 4 tablespoons (2 ozs.) drippings 

1 garlic clove 1 teaspoon salt 

1 onion, peeled I teaspoon pepper 

1 carrot, sliced 1 cup (| pt.) stock or water 

Trim superfluous fat from mutton and remove blade bone; 
put cut clove of garlic inside meat, then roll up, and tie with thin 
twine. Remove portion of knuckle bone. Cut onion in quarters 
and place it in a roasting pan with carrot, drippings, seasonings, 
and meat on top. Roast in moderately hot oven two hours or 
longer, according to weight and thickness of mutton. Baste 
meat frequently with hot drippings. Place meat on platter 
and keep it hot. 

Pour off fat from roasting pan, add stock or water to vegetables, 
boil five minutes, season to taste, and strain. Pour gravy round 
mutton and serve. 

Cooked beans or lentils and baked potatoes go well with this 
dish. 

Spiced Beef 

10 to 12 pounds beef 1 teaspoon powdered nutmeg 

2 cups (12 ozs.) coarse brown 1 ounce saltpeter 
sugar 1 cup (| lb.) fine salt 

1| teaspoons powdered mace 4 cups (2 pts.) stock or water 

1| teaspoons black pepper 1 small onion, sliced 

^ teaspoon red pepper 2 carrots, sliced 

2 teaspoons powdered cloves 1 bunch herbs 

Choose beef from round or thick flank, rub sugar well into it, 
and let stand two days. Mix spices with saltpeter and a little 
more sugar, then rub well into beef and allow to stand three 
days. 



MEATS 105 

Add salt to pickle that has formed and rub it again into beef, 
turning and rubbing it with this pickle daily twelve days. Now 
hang up to dry. When wanted, wash but do not soak it, tie it 
into shape with tape, and place in a pan that will hold it ; pour 
over hot stock or water, bring to the boil, then add vegetables 
and herbs and bring this again just to the boil ; draw pan to side 
of fire and simmer four and one half hours. Lift meat out on 
to platter, place another platter on top, weight heavily but 
evenly, and leave till cold. Wipe over with a warm cloth. 
Reduce gravy by rapid boiling and strain it over meat. 

Sucking Pig, Roasted 

1 sucking pig Tart apple sauce 

Sage and onion stuffing Parsley 

Lemon and watercress 

Sucking pig is an excellent old-fashioned dish. The little 
pig should be small, and is best at three or four weeks old. 
It should be cooked as soon as it is killed, as its flesh taints 
quickly, and, unless it is fresh, nothing will render the crackling 
as crisp as it should be. Wash pig thoroughly in cold water and 
wipe dry. Season inside with salt, pepper, and a little powdered 
sage. Fill body of pig with stuffing, then draw skin together 
with a coarse needle and thread. Roll legs and ears in greased 
paper, bending forefeet under body and hind feet backwards, 
skewering them in place. Put piece of wood between jaws to 
keep them open. Put pig in roasting pan, rub skin with oil, 
sprinkle with salt and pepper, and dredge with flour. Bake in 
brisk oven, basting frequently. When pig seems tender and 
nice golden yellow, which will be from two to two and one half 
hours, remove paper from legs and ears and cook fifteen minutes 
longer. Arrange watercress, celery, baked apples, or whatever 
garnishing is desired on hot platter, place pig on top, remove 
wood from mouth, replacing it with an apple or lemon, and serve 
with gravy and apple sauce. 

Bread stuffing, potato stuffing, or a chestnut and sausage 
stuffing may be used. Cranberry jelly, Brussels sprouts, and 
sweet potatoes are all excellent with roast pig. 



106 ECONOMICAL COOKERY 



Sweetbreads, in Gravy 

3 heart sweetbreads 1 onion, sliced 

1 bunch herbs 1 turnip, shced 

1 cup (i pt.) stock 4 tablespoons (1 oz.) flour or 

1 cup (^ lb.) bacon or salt pork potato flour 

Salt and pepper 2 tablespoons (1 oz.) butter 

1 carrot, sliced substitute 

Soak sweetbreads in cold water two hours, changing water 
several times ; drop them in boiling water for three minutes, lift 
out into cold water with few drops lemon juice added, leave 
fifteen minutes^ drain, remove skin and fat, press thirty minutes 
between two plates, cut bacon into long strips, and lard sweet- 
breads with them. Put vegetables at bottom of baking pan, lay 
sweetbreads on top, pour round stock, simmer slowly thirty 
minutes. Melt butter substitute in another pan, add flour, and 
when smooth, stir in stock from sweetbreads ; cook five minutes, 
adding seasonings to taste. Dish sweetbreads and strain sauce 
over. Serve hot. Sweetbreads are exceedingly light and easily 
digested, and much less stimulating than other meat. 



Tongue en Casserole 

1 fresh beef tongue 1 cup (^ lb.) butter substitute 

4 cups |2 pts.) cooking apples 1 teaspoon powdered allspice 

1 cup (6 ozs.) brown sugar ^ teaspoon powdered mace 

I teaspoon salt 

Wash and trim tongue carefully, roll it round, and keep it in 
shape with tape, then boil it the day before you wish to use it, so 
that it may become cold and firm. Core, peel, and quarter 
apples ; spread them in large greased casserole, sprinkle over with 
sugar, dot with butter substitute, dust with salt and spices. 
Cook one hour, stirring and basting frequently. Pick out apples 
carefully so that they do not break, and pile in center of 
hot platter. Slice tongue and cook in hot sirup ten minutes. 
Place tongue in border round apples and serve hot. 

When choosing an ox tongue select one with a smooth skin, as 
a very rough skin is a sign of age. 



If- 



.m m^- 




Ham Baked ix Pastry. Page 98. 





Kemoving the Tendoxs from Turkey. Page 111. 




Kabkit en Casserole. Page 117. 



MEATS 107 

Tripe en Casserole 

3 pounds tripe 1 onion, sliced 

1 teaspoon salt 1 turnip, sliced 

I teaspoon pepper 1 bay leaf 

1 carrot, sliced Cider or water 

Plain paste 

Cut tripe into square pieces and season with salt and pepper. 
Line a casserole with the vegetables and add bay leaf, then pour 
on sufficient cider to cover tripe. Have ready a plain paste made 
of flour and water, roll it out and place over tripe, put on lid, 
and then place pot in the oven, and cook two and one half hours. 
To serve, remove crust, put pieces of tripe into hot casserole, 
remove fat from liquor, boil up, season to taste, and strain over 
tripe. Serve hot. 



CHAPTER X 
POULTRY AND GAME 

" One likes the pheasant's wing and one the leg." 

The dressing of poultry has everything to do with its delicacy 
as an article of food. When properly dressed, the skin is of a 
clear color and free from blotches and pin feathers. The flesh 
is firm, yet yields easily to pressure, never tight and drawn. 

The surest way to test the age of a dressed fowl is to bend the 
point of the breast bone to one side. If the fowl is very young, 
it will respond to little pressure. At medium age the point is 
brittle ; in an old fowl it is very hard and tough. The older the 
fowl, the harder and rougher its feet and blunter its claws. On 
the other hand, young fowls have soft, smooth feet and sharp 
claws. 

When birds are intended for immediate use it is just as well to 
have them prepared by the poulterer, otherwise they should be 
bought untrussed and undrawn, and hung up until required. 
They keep so much better when not drawn that it is always 
advisable to postpone the operation as long as possible. In 
drawing a fowl, begin by cutting a long slit in the back of the 
neck, then cut off the neck close to the body, leaving three inches 
of skin to cover the opening. Remove the crop, then insert two 
fingers and tear away the skin which connects the various in- 
ternal organs of the bird. Now cut a small opening just above 
the tail, insert the fingers as before, detach the skin adhering to 
the body, take firm hold of the gizzard, which is situated under 
the breast bone, and remove it. The other internal parts, being 
indirectly attached to it, will be withdrawn at the same time. 

108 



POULTRY AND GAME 109 

Care must be taken not to break the gall bladder, the dark green 
bag between the lobes of the liver, for the gall would impart a 
bitter flavor to the bird that no amount of washing would com- 
pletely remove. 

Game may be correctly described as anything that has been 
hunted by sportsmen. Any bird or animal which is shot or 
snared for amusement should by right be classed as game, 
but the term now is applied to a select few only. The flesh of 
game is believed to possess strengthening qualities superior to 
that of poultry; it also contains less fat and is tender. It 
forms a valuable diet for the invaUd by reason of its easy 
digestibility. 

Until cooked, game has little or no flavor, and very little smell ; 
when cooked the " game flavor ", as it is termed, is to be dis- 
tinguished and is modified to style of cooking. 

The flesh of all kinds of game undergoes changes after death. 
The supple muscles stiffen with rigor, after which putrefaction 
sets in very slowly. During these successive changes various 
substances are formed. The " fumet " of game shows the de- 
velopment of certain substances which not only give it its 
special characteristic flavor, but render the flesh more easy of 
digestion. On this account game that is well hung makes appe- 
tizing and digestible fare for invalids. 

Game that has hung too long develops an acrid flavor. It 
is termed " high " ; this means that it is decomposing. Birds 
that are becoming soft-fleshed, gelatinous, flabby, even green, 
should be thrown away, because it is dangerous to eat them. 
Cooking may change the flavor of " high game ", making the 
flesh more wholesome, but there is great risk of ptomaine poison- 
ing if a " turned " bird be eaten. 

With well-hung game, washing must be avoided. Wiping it 
inside and out with a damp cloth is the most that should be 
attempted, and when the bird is served, the gravy should be 
served in a tureen and not poured over the bird, since the aim 
is to conserve the flavor of the bird as much as possible. 

All game requires careful cooking, with frequent bastings, or 
otherwise it eats dry and deficient in flavor. Most game re- 
quires to be well cooked. 



110 ECONOMICAL COOKERY 



Baked Chicken 



1 spring chicken ^ cup (4 ozs.) butter substitute 

4 cups (1 qt.) parsnips, sliced 3 sHces salt pork 
1 teaspoon salt Hot water 

5 teaspoon pepper Baked potatoes 

Draw, singe, and clean chicken, slit it down the back and lay it in 
greased dripping pan, skin side up. Wash, parboil, and scrape 
parsnips. Arrange these around chicken, sprinkle with salt and 
pepper, dot with bits of butter, and top with pork cut in very 
thin slices. Pour enough hot water in pan to prevent burning, 
and bake until chicken and parsnips are done to a delicate brown. 
Then place chicken on hot platter and arrange parsnips around 
it. Make a cream gravy from drippings in pan and serve with the 
potatoes. 

Boiled Turkey, Celery Sauce 

1 turkey I teaspoon pepper 
Slices fat bacon or pork 1 tablespoon lemon juice 

2 cups (8 ozs.) bread crumbs 1 saltspoon powdered herbs 
1 tablespoon chopped parsley 1 egg, beaten 

i teaspoon salt 4 tablespoons milk 

Singe, draw, and truss turkey, rub it over with cut lemon. 
Make stuffing of suet, bread crumbs, seasonings, egg, and milk, 
put it into breast of turkey, fasten skin loosely over it, cover 
breast with bacon. Then tie bird in clean cloth, put it into 
saucepan with sufficient boiling water to cover it, bring quickly 
to the boil and then sunmer until done. A ten-pound turkey 
requires two hours, a fifteen-pound bird two and one half hours. 
It should only simmer all the time. Take turkey out of cloth, 
remove bacon and skewers. Put it on hot platter, pour one cup 
of the sauce over breast and serve rest in a sauceboat. 

To Make the Sauce. Wash one small head of celery, cut it into 
shreds, and put it into a saucepan with cold water to cover, 
bring to the boil and drain off water. Pour in two cups of stock 
or water, cook slowly imtil tender, and rub through a sieve. 
Melt two tablespoons butter substitute in a saucepan, stir in four 
tablespoons of flour and when well blended add celery pur^e and 
stir until boiling ; add two tablespoons milk, salt and pepper to 
taste, and cook for a few minutes longer. 



POULTRY AND GAME 111 

Broiled Partridges 

Partridges Melted butter 

Salt and pepper Bread sauce 

Split each prepared bird down the back, rub with salt and 
pepper, and brush over with melted butter. Place on greased 
broiler and turn frequently to avoid burning. Allow half a 
partridge to each portion. Spread bread sauce under each half, 
surround with coarse buttered bread crumbs and spoonfuls of 
red currant jelly. 

Bread Sauce 

2 cups (1 pt.) milk ^ teaspoon salt 

^ cup (2 ozs.) bread crumbs i teaspoon pepper 

1 white onion j teaspoon paprika 

4 cloves 1 tablespoon butter substitute, 

melted 

Pour milk into upper pan of double boiler, add crumbs and 
onion stuck with cloves, and cook twenty minutes. Add sea- 
sonings and butter substitute. Remove onion and use. 

To Make Buttered Bread Crumbs. Brown one cup of coarse 
stale bread crumbs in two tablespoons of melted butter sub- 
stitute and use with game. 

Braised Turkey 

1 turkey 3 carrots 
Slices fat bacon or pork 1 parsnip 

2 onions 1 bunch herbs 

3 cloves 2 teaspoons salt 

1 teaspoon pepper 

Pick, singe, remove tendons, and draw turkey, save heart, 
liver and gizzard, cut off neck and legs ; cover bird with bacon 
and tie it round with tape to keep it in shape. Line bottom of 
deep casserole with bacon, place turkey on these, add giblefts, 
trimmings of turkey, onion stuck with cloves, vegetables, herbs, 
and seasonings. Lay more bacon over turkey and cover with 
boiling stock. Put lid on casserole and cook slowly five to six 
hours. Serve turkey on hot platter with vegetables around it, 
and gravy, strained and freed from fat, poured over it. 



112 ECONOMICAL COOKERY 

Chicken Pie 

1 large fowl or two chickens Salt and white pepper 

1 onion, sliced 3 tablespoons (1^ ozs.) butter 

3 celery stalks substitute 

3 carrots sliced 2 tablespoons (| oz.) jQour 

Boiling water 1 cup (§ pt.) cream or milk 

Pastry- 
Singe, draw, and clean fowl. Pull tendons from legs with a 
skewer. If there is considerable fat, remove so that the pie will 
not be too greasy. Lay fowl breast down in a saucepan with 
vegetables. Just cover with water and simmer until tender. 
About thirty minutes before chicken is done, season to taste. 
When done, lift pan from fire and without removing fowl, set in 
cold place where it w^ill cool rapidly. Then cover and set away 
until next day. Next morning skim off fat from top, take out 
the fowl, and skin and cut in pieces. Melt butter substitute, 
stir in flour, and when smooth add two and one half cups of the 
chicken stock. Stir until it thickens, season with salt and pepper, 
add cream and simmer a few moments. If liked, the yolks of two 
eggs mixed with a little of the hot gravy may be added just be- 
fore taking from fire. Season pieces of iowl with salt and pepper, 
and pack them in fireproof dish, having an inverted cup in 
center to hold up top crust. Pour in the sauce and cover with 
pastry. 

Cut one or two holes in crust to allow for the escape of the 
steam. Brush over with milk and bake in a hot oven for forty 
minutes. 

Alternate layers of chicken and oysters, making the sauce of 
equal parts of chicken gravy and oyster broth, is also an ap- 
proved way of making chicken pie. 

Chicken Pilau 

2 onions, sliced 2 cups (1 pt.) stock 

2 tablespoons (1 oz.) butter sub- ^ teaspoon whole white peppers 

stitute 1 blade mace 

1 chicken 2 cloves 

^ cup (i lb.) rice 1 teaspoon salt 

2 hard-cooked eggs 



POULTRY AND GAME 113 

Fry onions in butter substitute, and when sufficiently browned 
take out and place aside for future use. Cut up chicken into 
ten pieces and fry it in butter in which onions were cooked, and 
when colored take out and place by the onions. Now fry well- 
washed rice in butter, stirring frequently to prevent burning, 
and when fat is absorbed make a well in center and put in onions 
and chicken. Add stock, peppers, mace, cloves, and a few 
cardamons if obtainable, all tied in a piece of muslin or cheese- 
cloth, and simmer one hour, add salt, and, if rice becomes too dry, 
add a small quantity of boiling stock. When cooked take out 
spice bag. Place on dish and garnish with eggs cut in quarters. 

Pilau means an oriental combination of rice cooked with 
spices and butter ; almonds and raisins, usually fried, often being 
added. Most pilau dishes involve meat boiled in stock, but fish 
pilau and sweet pilau, the latter containing no flesh food, are 
used in some parts of India by Europeans who employ native 
cooks. Pilau dishes require skill and care in preparation, or 
they will be unpalatable. 

Duck with Turnips 

1 tender duck 4 tablespoons (1 oz.) flour 

3 tablespoons (1| ozs.) butter 2 cups (1 pt.) stock or water 

substitute 1 bunch herbs 

I teaspoon salt 1 onion 

J teaspoon pepper 2 cloves 

12 young turnips 

Truss duckling with legs folded back and close to sides, and 
pinions tucked under ; fasten with fine twine. Melt butter in a 
saucepan, add seasonings and duck. Brown it, turning it over 
so that it gets evenly colored. Take it out, and place in oven 
in deep dish. Put flour in saucepan and stir till smooth and 
brown. Add water, mix well and boil up, and cook five minutes. 
Strain sauce into a saucepan, put in duck, herbs, and onion 
stuck with cloves. Simmer thirty minutes. Add turnip 
(prepared as below) and simmer until turnips are done. Place 
duck on hot platter, arrange turnips round it, take fat off sauce 
and strain it over duck. 

Peel turnips, wash and drain, and boil them five minutes in 



114 ECONOMICAL COOKERY 

water to which a little salt has been added ; drain again. Melt 
three tablespoons drippings in saucepan, add turnips and fry 
them, shaking pan to color them evenly. Drain and add to duck. 

Fricassee of Chicken 

1 chicken (just about 4 lbs.) 1 cup (^ lb.) rice 

5 cups (2^ pts.) boiling water 2 tablespoons (1 oz.) butter 

4 tablespoons (1 oz.) flour 2 tablespoons chopped red pepper 

2 teaspoons salt 2 tablespoons chopped green 
1 teaspoon pepper pepper 

Parsley 

Prepare chicken and cut it into neat joints, place in a sauce- 
pan, cover with water, and simmer until tender. Skim out 
pieces of chicken, cool, roll in flour which has been seasoned with 
salt and pepper, and fry brown in hot lard. 

Wash rice and cook it in chicken liquor until almost tender, 
and drain thoroughly ; then fry it in butter with red and green 
peppers, season nicely, and turn out on to hot platter. Arrange 
chicken on top of rice and garnish with parsley. 

Fricassee of Guinea Fowl 

1 guinea fowl J pound fat bacon or pork 

2 tablespoons (5 oz.) flour 1 tablespoon chopped onion 
1 teaspoon salt ^ tablespoon lemon juice 

^ teaspoon pepper 1 tablespoon red currant jelly 

I teaspoon nutmeg 2 croiitons bread 

Cut guinea fowl in small joints, removing as much of skin as 
possible and any unnecessary bone. Mix flour with seasonings. 
Dip pieces of guinea fowl into this, coating them well. Cut 
bacon in small pieces, put it into hot frying pan, and cook a few 
minutes without allowing it to become too brown. Now lift it 
out, draining it from gravy, and place it in saucepan. Put 
guinea fowl, a few pieces at a time, into hot bacon fat and fry 
ujitil brown on all sides. Then place them beside bacon in 
saucepan. Put any remaining flour or add one tablespoon to 
frying pan, stir it until brown, pour in two cups of stock or 
water, and stir until boiling. Strain this sauce over guinea fowl, 



POULTRY AND GAME 115 

add onion, red currant jelly and lemon juice, and stew slowly 
until bird is tender. Garnish with crotitons of fried bread and 
serve with an orange or celery salad. 

Goose with Chestnuts 

1 young goose 1 carrot 

Salt and pepper 1 onion 

Flour 1 tablespoon lemon juice 

4 tablespoons (2 ozs.) butter sub- Brown stock or water 

stitute 36 chestnuts 

Prepare and truss goose, dusting it with salt, pepper, and flour. 
Melt butter in saucepan, and when hot put in goose and turn it 
over and over until brown on all sides. Add carrot and onion 
cut in thin slices, lemon juice, and seasoning of salt and pepper. 
Add enough stock to half cover goose. Place lid on pan and 
cook slowly at back of range or in oven until goose is tender. 
Baste bird occasionally with stock, adding more if necessary, 
but amount of liquid should be kept rather low. Serve goose on 
hot platter with some gravy poured round and chestnuts as a 
garnish. 

To Prepare Chestnuts. Roast chestnuts and when very tender 
remove shells and under skins. Put chestnuts into a saucepan 
with just enough brown stock to cover them, add one teaspoon 
each of sugar and salt. Simmer until stock is reduced and 
chestnuts glazed. 

Hare Haricot 

1 hare § teaspoon pepper 

4 tablespoons (2 ozs.) butter sub- 1 tablespoon lemon juice 

stitute 1 tablespoon red currant jelly 

2 cups (1 pt.) brown sauce 12 mushrooms 

1 teaspoon salt 12 small button onions 

Skin and clean hare, and cut it into neat joints. Melt butter 
in a saucepan, put in pieces of hare, and fry a nice brown color. 
Drain away fat, and add brown sauce and half a cup of boiling 
water. Bring to boiling point, and simmer for one hour. Ten 
minutes before serving add seasonings, lemon juice, and currant 
jelly. 



116 ECONOMICAL COOKERY 

Cook mushrooms in a little biittor, pcarboil onions, and finish 
the latter in a little butter. Place hare on hot dish, pour sauce 
over, and serve hot, garnished with mushrooms and onions. 

Jugged Hare 

1 hare 1 sprig thyme 

1 pound round steak 1 teaspoon grated lemon rind 

2 pound fat bacon 1 bay leaf 

3 cups (1^ pts.) stock or water 1 carrot, sliced 
1 onion Forcemeat balls 

4 cloves 1 teaspoon salt 

1 small bunch parsley ^ teaspoon pepper 

Cut hare into joints and put them into deep earthenware dish, 
with alternate layers of steak and bacon cut into pieces. Pour 
in stock, add onion stuck with cloves, parsley, thyme, lemon rind, 
bay leaf, and carrot. Put cover on dish, then cook slowly two 
and one half hom's. Add forcemeat balls durmg last half hour, 
and ten minutes before serving add seasonings. Serve in same 
dish. 

Forcemeat Balls. Parboil liver of hare, and chop it small with 
one fourth pound suet and three slices lean bacon, add one and 
one half cups bread crumbs, one half tablespoon chopped pars- 
ley, one half teaspoon salt, one fourth teaspoon pepper, pinch of 
thyme and nutmeg, and one well-beaten egg. Shape into balls 
and use. 

Pigeons en Casserole 

4 pigeons 3 cups (1^ pts.) stock or water 

I pound lean ham, diced 1 bunch herbs 

1 small onion 1 lemon 

4 tablespoons (1 oz.) flour Salt and white pepper 

4 tablespoons (2 ozs.) butter sub- 2 hard-cooked eggs, diced 
stitute 

Truss birds and cut them through in halves. Fry ham and 
onion in butter substitute to a pale brownish color in a casserole. 
Remove ham and carefully bro^sm flour. Pour in stock and stir 
over slow fire until gravy boils. Add pigeons, ham, herbs, 
grated lemon rind, salt and pepper to taste. Cover casserole, and 
simmer until birds are tender. When finished, remove herbs, and 
add eggs and more seasonings if required. Serve hot in casserole. 



POULTRY AND GAME 117 



Pigeons with Spaghetti 

4 pigeons 1 bunch herbs 

J pound ham or bacon Stock or water 

1 carrot 1 teaspoon salt 

1 turnip 5 teaspoon pepper 

1 onion 4 tablespoons (2 ozs.) butter 

3 stalks celery ^ package spaghetti 

Singe, draw and clean pigeons, and truss them as for roasting. 
Clean vegetables and cut them into small pieces, place them in 
saucepan, add ham or bacon cut into small pieces, herbs, and 
enough stock or water to cover. Bring this to the boil and lay 
pigeons on top. Cover with greased paper and lid and cook on 
top of stove or in oven until pigeons are nearly ready. Then 
remove them, cut in halves, and place on greased tin. Strain 
stock in stewpan, remove grease, and pour over pigeons. Set in 
moderate oven and continue cooking, basting frequently, until 
pigeons are brown and liquid reduced to a glaze. 

Boil spaghetti in plenty of boiling salted water until tender and 
drain well ; add to it butter and seasonings. Place pigeons on 
hot dish and put spaghetti round. 

Macaroni may be used instead of spaghetti if more convenient. 

Rabbit en Casserole 

1 rabbit 2 cups (1 pt.) boiling water or 

1 onion, sliced stock 

1 cup (4 ozs.) bacon, diced 1 strip lemon rind 

1 bunch herbs 1 tablespoon flour 

1 teaspoon salt i teaspoon pepper 

Wash rabbit in tepid salted water to free it from blood, then 
cut in neat joints. Dry joints and dip them in flour. Put bacon 
in frying pan and fry a light brown, add rabbit and onion, and 
fry for a few minutes. Put all into a casserole, add herbs, stock, 
and seasonings, cover, bring to the boil, then simmer one hour. 
Take out herbs and lemon rind. Skim off all grease. Thicken 
gravy with two teaspoons flour, allow to boil, and serve in 
casserole. 



118 ECONOMICAL COOKERY 



Rabbit Pie 

1 large rabbit, or two small ones I teaspoon mace 

2 tablespoons (2 oz.) flour 2 hard-cooked eggs, sliced 
1 teaspoon salt ^ pound ham or bacon 

§ teaspoon pepper Pastry 

Cut rabbit into joints, and remove top bone from legs. Mix 
flour with seasonings on a plate, roll in this the rabbit, and cut 
ham in slices; arrange alternately layers of rabbit, eggs, and 
ham in fireproof dish ; sprinkle a little salt and pepper over, and 
add one cup hot water. Cover with pastry, brush over with 
milk or beaten egg, and bake in hot oven one and one half 
hours. Stew rabbit bones with a little water, one small onion, 
blade of mace, a few herbs, and seasonings of salt and pepper, 
and pour into pie. Serve hot or cold. 

Rabbit with Rice 

1 rabbit 2 cups (1 pt.) stock or water 
4 tablespoons (2 ozs.) drippings 1^ cups (f pt.) tomato pur6e 

2 tablespoons chopped onion 1 teaspoon salt 

1 cup (I lb.) rice § teaspoon pepper 

Parsley 

Wash and clean rabbit, and cut it in neat joints. Melt drip- 
pings in a casserole, add onion and rice well washed and dried, 
and cook ten minutes without browning. Then put in rabbit 
and cook a few minutes longer, stirring constantly. Add stock 
and tomato pur^e, season to taste, cover with lid, and simmer in 
oven or one side of the range until rice and rabbit are tender and 
nearly dry. Garnish with parsley and serve hot. 

Tomato pur^e is made by rubbing fresh or canned tomatoes 
through a sieve. 

Roast Capon with Piquante Stuffing 

1 capon 3 gherkins, chopped 

3 cups (f lb.) bread crumbs 1 small green pepper, chopped 
I cup (1 gill) mild vinegar ^ teaspoon poultry seasoning 
i cup (4 ozs.) butter substitute, 1 teaspoon salt 

melted 5 teaspoon pepper 

1 cup (^ pt.) ohves, stoned and Giblet sauce 

chopped Cranberry jelly 



POULTRY AND GAME 119 

Singe, draw, and truss bird same as chicken. Rub over with 
drippings, dust with salt, pepper, and flour. Mix crumbs with 
vinegar, add butter, olives, gherkins, green pepper, and season- 
ings. Place in the capon, put in a hot oven, basting frequently. 
When breast meat is tender the bird is sufficiently cooked. 
Serve on a hot plate garnished with parsley and accompany with 
giblet sauce and cranberry jelly. 



Roast Chicken with Oyster Stuffing 

1 chicken 1 tablespoon chopped parsley 

1 cup (I lb.) bread or cracker 2 teaspoons lemon juice 

crumbs 1 teaspoon salt 

\ cup (2 ozs.) butter substitute, ^ teaspoon pepper 

melted 2 cups (1 pt.) oysters 

3 tablespoons oyster liquor 

Select a dry picked chicken, remove all pin feathers, singe well, 
wash inside and out, reject tips of wings, and cut off neck close 
to body. Dust inside of chicken with a little pepper, salt, and 
poultry seasoning. In a bowl put crumbs, add butter, parsley, 
seasonings, oysters cut in quarters, and oyster liquor. Mix 
and place in breast of chicken. Rub chicken over with olive 
oil or fat, dust with salt and pepper, and sprinkle thickly 
with flour. 

To truss the fowl for roasting : If a chicken, leave on the feet, 
which should be scalded and skinned ; if an older bird, cut off 
legs half-way to first joint, turn back pinions, rim a skewer 
through them, catching the top part of the legs ; tie the bottom 
part of the legs together with white twine. Lay fowl breast 
down in dripping pan, set in hot oven, and cook from three 
fourths to one and one fourth hours, according to size; baste 
frequently with hot drippings, and about fifteen minutes before 
it is finished dredge with flour and brown nicely. Remove 
skewers and twine, place chicken on hot platter, and strain gravy 
over, or serve it in a gravy boat. To make the gravy, pour from 
roasting pan the fat, sprinkle in two teaspoons browned flour, 
add one cup boiling water, salt and pepper to taste, boil three 
minutes. 



120 ECONOMICAL COOKERY 

Roast Goose 

1 goose 2 apples, peeled 

Salt and pepper ^ cup (2 ozs.) bread crumbs 

1 small onion, chopped ^ teaspoon salt 

1 tablespoon chopped celery ^ teaspoon pepper 

1 teaspoon chopped parsley 4 tablespoons milk or cream 

2 tablespoons bacon fat Baked apples 

Currant jelly 

Singe goose, remove pin feathers, draw, and wash thoroughly 
in hot water. Remove all the fat that can be reached from under 
skin or inside. This may be saved and tried out. Season goose 
inside and out with salt and pepper. Chop heart and liver. 
Melt bacon fat, add heart, liver, onion, celery, and parsley. Add 
apples cut in cubes, crumbs, seasonings, and milk. Stuff this 
into goose and truss. Dredge with salt, pepper, and flour. Roast 
in hot oven, basting frequently, and allowing twenty minutes to 
the pound. When well done and nicely browned, place on hot 
platter. Skim off fat in pan, stir in tablespoon of browned flour, 
add one cup hot water or stock, and boil five minutes. Strain 
and serve with baked apples and currant jelly. 

Roast Guinea Chicken 

1 guinea chicken 1 cup (| pt.) white grapes 

Drippings 2 cups (^ lb.) bread crumbs 

Flour § cup (4 ozs.) butter substitute, 

Salt and pepper melted 

Truss bird in shape, dust with flour, salt and pepper, and 
spread with plenty of drippings. Halve and seed grapes, add 
bread crumbs, butter, and seasonings to taste. Stuff bird with 
this forcemeat, then roast it for one and one half hours, basting 
frequently. 

Cook giblets in water to cover. When fowl is roasted season 
gravy with onion juice and parsley, add chopped giblets, and 
thicken with browned flour. Serve guinea chicken hot with 
grape jeUy. 

To Broil a Young Guinea Fowl. Wash carefully and split 
down back. Wipe dry, flatten slightly, brush over with olive 



POULTRY AND GAME 121 

or cottonseed oil, dust with salt and white pepper, dredge with 
flour, and broil over a clear fire. Cook fifteen minutes, and place 
in a hot dish, pour over a brown gravy, and garnish with little 
mounds of mashed potatoes and watercress. 

Salmi of Duck 

1 large duck 1 onion, sliced 

4 tablespoons (2 ozs.) butter sub- 3 cups (Ih pts.) stock or water 

stitute 1 teaspoon salt 

4 tablespoons (1 oz.) flour ^ teaspoon pepper 

Prepare duck, then roast it, and cook it rare. Cut it into 
joints and chop meat into pieces. Melt two tablespoons of the 
butter substitute, put in pieces of meat and onion, and fry 
brown. Then add stock, and simmer one hour; then strain it. 
Melt remainder of butter substitute in a saucepan, stir in flour, 
and add two cups of stock made from duck, season with salt and 
pepper, and simmer fifteen minutes. Add to it gravy from pan in 
which duck was roasted. Put joints of duck into this sauce and 
simmer twenty minutes. Place duck on hot platter and strain 
sauce over. Serve hot. 

Stewed Rabbit 

I pound fat bacon 3 cups (H pts.) milk or water 

1 rabbit 1 small bunch herbs 

1 onion, sliced 1 teaspoon salt 

4 tablespoons (1 oz.) flour ^ teaspoon pepper 

Cut bacon into squares, fry a nice brown color ; remove bacon 
from pan, leaving the fat ; joint rabbit, and fry quickly in fat ; 
remove rabbit and fry onion a light brown. Draw this to one 
side and brown flour, now gradually add water, and stir quite 
smooth; when boiling, add rabbit, bacon, and seasonings; 
simmer for one to one and one fourth hours or until rabbit is 
tender. Place pieces of rabbit on hot platter and strain gravy 
over. Serve hot. 

Venison Cutlets, Grilled 

8 venison cutlets Salt and pepper 

Butter 8 baked potatoes 



122 ECONOMICAL COOKERY 

Cut cutlets, one inch thick, from a well-hung neck of venison. 
Trim cutlets, but do not remove all fat. Season them with salt 
and pepper, and place them on a greased grill over a bright, clear 
fire. Turn them constantly while cooking, so as to retain gravy. 
The cutlets will take from twenty to twenty-five minutes to cook. 
Serve cutlets in a circular row on a hot dish with small piece of 
butter under each. Have potatoes ready and serve with the 
cutlets. 



CHAPTER XI 

VEGETABLES 

" The common growth of Mother Earth suffices me." 

The cooking of vegetables is often undertaken with confidence 
by the most amateur and ignorant of cooks, because of a mistaken 
idea that " any one can cook vegetables." If those words 
wore altered to " any one with care and a little knowledge can 
cook vegetables," they would be true enough, as vegetables are 
really not difficult to cook, provided that a few rules are strictly 
adhered to. These rules are well worth learning, as there are 
few things more often spoiled by careless cooking and serving. 

Vegetables may be divided into two principal classes: 

1. Root vegetables, or those that grow below the ground; 
this class may include those which are not roots in the botanical 
sense, such as the potato, the onion, and the leek ; 

2. Green vegetables, or those that grow above the ground; 
this class includes those which are not actually green — leafy 
vegetables, such as marrow, beans, or peas. 

As a class, root vegetables are more nutritious, satisfying and 
starchy than green vegetables; they generally contain starch, 
the potato being the richest in this; or sugar, of which beets 
and carrots contain the largest proportion. They may be 
cooked and served as a separate vegetable, but a good many 
of them, especially onions, shallots, carrots, and turnips, are 
used as flavoring agents and added to such dishes as soups or 
stews. 

Scrub root vegetables well to remove earth and dirt. If 
young and thin skinned, scrape well; if older or with thick 
skins, peel. Place in water after peeling, until ready to be 
cooked, to keep a good color. Onions and leeks are exceptions ; 

123 



124 ECONOMICAL COOKERY 

they must not be soaked in water, as some of their valuable oil 
is lost, but they should be covered and kept from the air. All 
root vegetables, except old potatoes, are cooked in boiling salted 
water in a covered saucepan, till tender. The mature starch 
grains in old potatoes are rendered softer if they are placed 
in just sufficient cold salted water to cover them, brought slowly 
to the boil, and then cooked gently till floury and unbroken. 
After draining, potatoes should be placed on the side of the fire 
in a saucepan with the lid tilted, to steam and dry. 

Green vegetables, with the exception of the pulses (peas, 
beans, lentils, etc.), are not so nourishing as root vegetables; 
their value lies in the fact that they contain valuable blood- 
purifying salts, and that the cellulose w^hich forms their bulk is 
a preventive of constipation. 

Spinach and cabbage are especially rich in these salts. Peas, 
beans, and lentils are more nourishing than other green vege- 
tables, because they contain a higher proportion of flesh-form- 
ing food. 

Green vegetables should be prepared according to the kind of 
vegetable. 

Spinach should be picked over, the stem and back rib of each 
leaf removed, and then thoroughly washed in several waters. 
It is the only vegetable that is not cooked in plenty of water ; 
it requires only a tablespoon of water at the bottom of the pan, 
which, with the water that clings to the leaves, is sufficient to 
cook it in, as so much comes out of the spinach during cooking. 
Spinach should be thoroughly drained, chopped, or rubbed 
through a sieve, and then served with a garnish of hard-cooked 
eggs. Almost all green vegetables are cooked fast in plenty of 
boiling salted water, in a large uncovered saucepan till tender- 
Drain the water thoroughly from green vegetables; cabbage 
and other greens should be pressed in a colander with a saucer tO' 
squeeze away all moisture. Peas may be tossed in melted butter 
after draining. Cauliflower is served very hot with a white 
coating sauce. " 

Asparagus k L'ltalienne 

1 bunch asparagus Buttered toast, or fried bread 

Italian sauce 



VEGETABLES 125 

Cut stalks of asparagus all one length, and scrape white 
part with a knife from tip downwards, then wash in cold water, 
being careful not to break green tips. Tie asparagus in bundles 
with tape, throw these into a saucepan with plenty of boiling 
water containing one teaspoon salt to each quart and boil 
twenty minutes; lift out and drain on a towel. Serve on a 
fried crouton of bread or a thick slice of buttered toast. Pour 
over stalk ends a little Italian sauce, and serve remainder in a 
tureen. The asparagus may also be served with a white or 
melted butter sauce. 

The asparagus may be served cold with mayonnaise dressing. 
Some cooks reverse this and serve it hot with cold sauce, and 
cold with hot white sauce. White sauce to which the strained 
juice of one orange has been added is a delicious accompaniment. 

Baked Cabbage 

1 cabbage Batter 

Salt Fresh cracker crumbs 

Pepper Milk 

Slice cabbage thin as for salad, omitting all the heart. Put 
few small pieces of butter into bottom of greased baking dish, 
place in layer of cabbage, seasoning to taste, pieces of butter, 
and generous layer of cracker crumbs. Then add more cabbage, 
and so on, until desired amount is in dish ; then add milk until 
it is one half inch from top of cabbage. Bake in moderate oven 
one and one half hours. 

Baked Beets 

6 beets Lemon juice 

Olive oil ^ teaspoon salt 

I teaspoon pepper 

While the beet is not rich in nitrogen or fat, it contains nearly 
eight per cent, of sugar and affords a welcome addition to our 
dietary. 

Clean beets carefully. They will not bear hard rubbing, 
which bruises the skin and makes them bleed and lose their 
pretty red color. Neither must the rootlets be cut or broken^ 
and the top leaves, must be cut above the crown. 



126 ECONOMICAL COOKERY 

Place beets in a fireproof dish, cover with hot water, put in 
oven and bake, basting frequently. To know when they are 
done, press them with the finger instead of piercing them with a 
fork. When soft, rub off the skins. If plunged at once into a 
little cold water before peeling, the operation will be easier. 
Slice and serve the beets with a little oil, lemon juice, and 
seasonings. 

Summer beets will cook in one hour. 

Beets as a garnish are always effective unless used in com- 
bination with carrots, when a clash of color results. With the 
cool green of cucumbers, lettuce or endive, or the white of 
potato, they are exceedingly attractive. 

Boiled Cauliflower 

1 cauliflower Boiling milk 

Boiling water Salt 

Cook cauliflower in water and milk, a little more than one 
half water, adding salt to taste. The vegetable will come out 
beautifully white and have a much richer flavor than when cooked 
in water alone. Cauliflower thus cooked and dressed with 
drawn butter, pepper, salt, paprika, and a dash of lemon juice 
makes a very palatable dish. Cooked as above and then chilled, 
cauliflower makes a very nice salad, served with crisp lettuce 
and sprinkled over with oil, lemon juice, pepper, and salt. 

Boiled Leeks 

1 bunch leeks Boiling water 

Salt and pepper to taste 

Leeks are excellent in soups, broths, etc., but they are also 
particularly good as a vegetable with or without sauce. 

They are also very little trouble to cook, though the cleansing 
of them is rather a difficult matter, as sometimes they are very 
gritty. 

Cut off the roots and trim off all but about one inch of the 
green tops. Wash them thoroughly. This is best done by 
allowing the cold water from the faucet to flow between the 
leaves, moving and opening them so that no part is missed. Put 



VEGETABLES 127 

them in a saucepan with boiling water to well cover them and 
add one teaspoon of salt to each pint of water. Boil gently 
until they can be easily pierced with a skewer, which should 
be run in at the top of the root end. They will probably take 
from twenty to thirty mmutes, according to their size. Drain 
them well and arrange on a slice of toast in a vegetable dish, 
sprinkle with salt and pepper to taste, and serve with them 
plain melted butter sauce or egg sauce. 

Boiled Red Cabbage 

1 red cabbage 1 teaspoon salt 

1 cup (i pt.) boiling water 5 cup (1 gill) vinegar 

4 tablespoons (2 ozs.) drippings 1 hard-cooked egg, cut in strips 

^ teaspoon white pepper 3 lemon sHces 

Cut cabbage in halves, removing outer leaves, and place in 
cold water ten minutes. Drain and cut out stalk and chop 
leaves fine. Put them into saucepan with water, drippings, 
seasonings, and vinegar, and cook slowly until cabbage is ready 
and water is cooked away from it. Have it as dry as it can be 
without burning. Garnish with egg and lemon. 

Broiled Eggplant 

1 eggplant 1 tablespoon vinegar 

3 tablespoons (1^ ozs.) butter, ^ teaspoon salt 
melted | teaspoon paprika 

Peel eggplant, cut in thin slices, put into ice water, adding 
vinegar, and let stand five minutes. Take up, drain, wipe dry, 
dip in melted butter, sprinkle with salt and paprika, and broil 
over a clear fire. Serve hot. 

Another Method. Prepare eggplant in usual way, making 
slices twice the thickness for frying. Pare, drain, and place in 
clean towel under a weight until ready to cook. Dip in melted 
butter and broil under a clear flame, seasoning with salt and 
white pepper. Grill on both sides until tender, cover with 
melted butter sauce, and serve hot with quarters of lemon. 

Candied Sweet Potatoes 

4 sweet potatoes 2 tablespoons (1 oz.) butter 
I cup (6 ozs.) sugar or honey 1 cup (^ pt.) water, hot 



128 ECONOMICAL COOKERY 

Boil potatoes until tender ; keep them hot. Put sugar into a 
saucepan and brown it, stirring constantly so that it will not 
burn; add butter and stir until mixed. Then add water and 
boil three minutes. Add potatoes and let cook until sirup is 
thick. Lift potatoes out carefully into serving dish, pour sirup 
over them, and serve hot. 

Sugared Sweet Potatoes 

Cut cold baked sweet potatoes into quarter-inch slices and 
measure one pint. Melt two tablespoons butter in a baking 
dish, and when hot lay potatoes in ; sprinkle the top with two 
tablespoons sugar or honey ; pour over two tablespoons vinegar 
and cook until brown and hot. Sweet potatoes are always better 
twice baked. 

Carrots H la Flamande 

1 bunch young carrots I teaspoon pepper 

2 tablespoons (1 oz.) butter sub- 1 pinch sugar 
stitute 1 egg, beaten 

^ cup (1 gill) stock or water 2 tablespoons cream or milk 

1 teaspoon salt 1 teaspoon chopped parsley 

Trim, wash, and scrape carrots, cut them into halves or quarters 
and blanch them in slightly salted water, drain them and put 
them into a saucepan with butter substitute, toss over fire for 
a few minutes without allowing to get brown, add stock and 
seasonings, and cook until tender. Mix egg with cream and 
pour over carrots, add parsley, mix thoroughly and serve very 
hot. 

Carrots Braised 

10 carrots 1 bouillon cube, or little meat 

2 cups (1 pt.) brown stock, extract 
boiling 1 teaspoon salt 

1 tablespoon brown sugar ^ teaspoon pepper 

Trim carrots and scrape them and put into a saucepan with 
stock and sugar ; boil imtil tender, drain, and keep hot. Add 
bouillon cube or meat extract to gravy in pan, add seasonings, 
and reduce to one half. Dish carrots, pour gravy around them, 
and sejve hot. 



VEGETABLES 129 

Dressed Spinach 

2 quarts (8 cups) spinach, cut 1 teaspoon salt 

fine ^ teaspoon paprika 

2 tablespoons (1 oz.) butter sub- | cup (1 gill) milk 

stitute 1 egg, beaten 

Wash and drain spinach and measure after cutting. Melt 
butter substitute in a saucepan, stir in spinach, add seasonings 
and milk, and simmer thirty minutes. At serving time stir in 
egg, let stand a minute, and serve hot. 

Fried Cauliflower 

1 cauliflower 1 gill (| cup) bread crumbs 

1 egg 1 gill (^ cup) grated cheese 

3 tablespoonfuls milk | teaspoonful curry powder 

Hot fat 

Trim, wash, and drain a cauliflower and cook it in boiling 
salted water until tender. Drain again and allow to get cold. 
Divide it into small portions. Beat up egg with milk, dip 
cauliflower in this, then toss in bread crumbs mixed with cheese, 
and fry in smoking hot fat to a golden color. Drain on white 
paper, sprinkle over with curry powder, put on to a hot platter, 
and serve hot. 

Kohl-rabi 
Kohl-rabi Cream sauce 

Kohl-rabi, or kale turnip, is a wholesome vegetable, and if 
cooked properly is much lilced by all who are fond of cabbage or 
turnip. It belongs to the kale family, which was about the 
only vegetable in use among the early Saxons. The stem of the 
kale turnip swells out above the ground to the size of a large 
turnip, from which the leaves spring. The bulbous part is 
used for food. To cook it, trim off all the leaves, peel, cut into 
quarters, and boil in plenty of boiling salted water twenty 
minutes, or until tender. Drain and serve with cream sauce 
or one made as follows : Fry a small piece of bacon with a slice 
of onion until brown. Remove bacon and onion, add one cup 
hot water, salt and pepper to taste, and thicken with browned 
flour. 



130 ECONOMICAL COOKERY 

Parsnips Boiled 
2 pounds parsnips Salt and pepper 

Wash and scrape parsnips from thick end downwards; if 
old, it may be necessary to peel them thin. Throw them into 
cold water as they are prepared, to prevent discoloration. Then 
cut them into quarters and put them into plenty of boiling 
salted water, bring to boiling point, and cook slowly one hour, 
or until tender. Drain, sprinkle over with salt and pepper to 
taste, and serve hot. 

Parsnips are usually served as an accompaniment to salt fish 
or salt meat. 

For Mashed Parsnips. Cook parsnips as above, and mash 
free from lumps or put them through a vegetable press or food 
chopper. Reheat this pur^e in a saucepan, add one tablespoon 
butter substitute and one tablespoon hot milk, and make 
thoroughly hot. Serve hot. 

Peas k Maitre d'Hdtel 

2 cups (1 pt.) green peas | teaspoon pepper 

Salt 2 tablespoons (1 oz.) butter sub- 

1 tablespoon chopped parsley stitute 

1 bunch mint, chopped | teaspoon lemon juice 

Shell peas and throw into plenty of boiling water containing 
teaspoon of salt to each quart; boil fast imtil tender, then 
drain. Mix butter substitute, parsley, mint, pepper, lemon 
juice, and salt to taste ; stir into this peas, reheat them, shaking 
occasionally, dish, and serve hot. 

Some cooks recommend that, instead of the laborious work 
of shelling peas, after they have been washed and carefully 
picked over, the peas, while still in pods, be thrown into boiling 
water and cooked in that way. When the peas are done, the 
pods will rise to the surface of the water, while the peas will 
remain at the bottom of the pan. Peas cooked in this manner 
are said to have a much finer flavor than when cooked without 
the pods. 



VEGETABLES 131 

Potatoes and Turnips 

1^ cups (I pt.) mashed potatoes 2 tablespoons (1 oz.) butter sub- 
li cups (I pt.) mashed turnips stitute 

1 teaspoon salt 3 tablespoons hot milk 

^ teaspoon pepper 1 cup (^ pt.) boiled rice 

§ cup (2 ozs.) grated cheese 

Mix potatoes, turnips, seasonings, butter substitute, and hot 
milk together; turn into a greased fireproof dish, smooth the 
top, cover with rice, sprinkle over with cheese, and bake until 
thoroughly hot. Serve on hot plates. 

Potatoes au Gratin 

8 potatoes 2 cups (1 pt.) milk 

1 tablespoon (^ oz.) butter sub- | teaspoon salt 

stitute i teaspoon pepper 

1 tablespoon flour | cup (2 ozs.) grated cheese 

Peel potatoes, cut into dice and boil until tender in boiling 
salted water, and drain. Blend butter and flour in a saucepan 
over the fire, add milk and seasonings, and bring to boiling point 
and cook two minutes. Place potatoes in greased fireproof dish, 
pom* over sauce, sprinkle over with cheese, dot with tiny pieces 
of butter substitute, and brown in oven. Serve hot. 

The word gratin comes from the verb gratiner — to make 
brown — and implies a shallow dish, so that the whole contents 
shall be exposed to baking. All vegetables served au gratin 
should first be boiled, then placed in a shallow dish, covered 
with fine bread crumbs and butter, or with a sauce, and then 
baked in a hot oven until brown. Cauliflowers, carrots, parsnips, 
artichokes, salsify, and celery all lend themselves well to treat- 
ment au gratin. Tomatoes sliced, laid in a gratin dish, covered 
with a layer of bread crumbs, chopped herbs, and seasonings, 
with pats of butter on top, also make one of the very nicest of 
gratins. 

Potato Souffle 

2 cups (1 pt.) mashed potatoes 1 teaspoon salt 

2 e.G:G:s, separated | teaspoon pepper 

3 tablespoons cream or milk i teaspoon celery salt 



132 ECONOMICAL COOKERY 

Put potatoes into a bowl, add yolks of eggs mixed with cream, 

and beat well together, then add seasonings and fold in stiffly 

beaten whites of eggs. Pour into a greased baking dish and 

bake in hot oven until top is browned and puffy. Serve very 

hot. 

Savory Greens 

1 peck greens 3 medium-sized potatoes, grated 

BoiUng water 2 slices bacon 

1 tablespoon salt i teaspoon pepper 

3 tablespoons vinegar 

Prepare greens, such as dandelions, beet tops, chard, etc., by 
washing carefully in salted water. Remove all tough parts. 
Put greens in a large saucepan half full of boiling water with salt. 
Boil steadily until tender; this will be in from five to twenty 
minutes, according to the maturity of vegetables. As soon as 
they are tender, drain, chop slightly, and return to fire. Now 
add potatoes. Fry bacon which has been cut in small squares, 
mix with other ingredients, and stir to keep from sticking. 
Season with salt, pepper, and vinegar, and simmer ten minutes. 
Serve piping hot. 

You will be surprised how delicious greens are when served 

in this way. 

Scalloped Celery 

1 bunch celery I cup (2 ozs.) grated cheese 

^ cup (4 ozs.) butter substitute 1 teaspoon salt 

4 tablespoons milk 5 teaspoon pepper 

Browned bread crumbs 

Wash and scrape celery, cut in half-inch pieces, and cook un- 
covered in boiling, slightly salted water fifteen minutes ; drain, 
add butter substitute, milk, cheese, and seasonings, and mix 
well together. Divide mixture into greased scallop shells, or into 
a greased fireproof dish, sprinkle with bread crumbs, dot with 
butter substitute, and bake in a moderate oven twenty minutes. 

Serve hot. 

Stuffed Globe Artichokes 

8 globe artichokes 1 egg, beaten 

3 tablespoons chopped cooked 1 cup (^ pt.) stock or water 

meat 1 tablespoon chopped parsley 

^ teaspoon salt 1 small onion, chopped 

5 teaspoon pepper I teaspoon grated lemon rind 



VEGETABLES 133 

Trim artichokes and put them into a saucepan with plenty 
of boiling salted water; boil forty minutes, then drain. Put 
meat, seasonings, onion, and parsley into small pan and fry 
five minutes, remove from fire, and add egg. Remove centers 
from artichokes with a small knife, fill with mixture, put them 
into a pan, pour stock around them, and simmer fifteen minutes. 
Dish carefully, reduce gravy to one third by fast boiling, strain 
artichokes, and serve hot. The gravy may be thickened with a 
little flour if liked. 

Scalloped Salsify or Oyster Plant 

8 roots salsify 1 teaspoon lemon juice or vinegar 

1 cup (^ pt.) white sauce i teaspoon celery salt 

I cup (2 ozs.) butter substitute 1 tablespoon grated cheese 
Bread crumbs 

Choose salsify not too large, wash it well, and soak for thirty 
minutes in cold water. Cut off one inch from end of stalk and 
scrape the rest lightly. Tie in bundles with tape and throw into 
cold water to which a little vinegar or lemon juice has been added 
— to prevent discoloration. Put them into a saucepan with 
enough boiling water to cover, add a little salt and a good squeeze 
of lemon juice. Drain well, cut in thin slices, and mix with 
celery salt, or a small piece of fresh celery finely chopped. 
Grease some scallop shells and sprinkle them with bread crumbs, 
put in a layer of prepared salsify, then a layer of sauce, then 
more salsify and more sauce. Sprinkle tops with bread crumbs 
and cheese, dot with butter substitute, and bake in a hot oven 
until browned on top. Serve hot with lemon slices. 

When salsify is cooked, it has a distinct flavor of oyster, hence 
the name oyster plant. It is like the parsnip in appearance, only 
much longer and thinner. 

Spinach Timbale 

l^cup (^ pt.) cooked spinach ^ teaspoon paprika 

4 tablespoons (2 ozs.) butter sub- 2 egg yolks 

stitute 1 carrot, diced 

I cup (1 gill) cream or milk 1 turnip, diced 

I teaspoon salt ^ cup (1 gill) cooked peas 



134 ECONOMICAL COOKERY 

Boil enough spinach to fill a cup when it is passed through a 
wire sieve. Put it while hot into a saucepan with butter sub- 
stitute, cream, seasonings, and egg yolks. Turn into greased 
mold, cover with greased paper, and steam one hour. Boil 
carrot and turnip until tender and toss with peas in a little 
melted butter. Turn spinach out on to hot dish and garnish 
with the cooked vegetables. 

Spinach is good in cases of stomach and kidney troubles, for 
dyspepsia and anaemia. It is an excellent vegetable ; it purifies 
the blood and produces a healthy condition of the system. 

Stewed Endive 

2 heads endive 2 teaspoons butter substitute 

1 cup (^ pt.) stock or milk 1 teaspoon salt 

1 tablespoon cornstarch ^ teaspoon pepper 

1 squeeze lemon juice 

Wash endive carefully, separating the leaves and removing 
stalks and any discolored parts. Then put them in boiling 
salted water and cook fifteen minutes. Drain and cut across in 
small pieces. Put endive into a saucepan, add stock or milk, 
sprinkle in the cornstarch, and stew slowly fifteen minutes. Add 
butter substitute and seasonings and serve hot. 

Stuffed Eggplant 

1 eggplant Butter 

Seasoned bread crumbs 2 poached eggs 

One eggplant is enough for a good-sized family. Do not cook 
eggplant in any way without first removing its acridity by 
cooking in boiling salted water, which draws out the injurious 
principle solanina. To stuff, boil in salted water, just as it comes 
from the market, then drain and cut open lengthwise, scoop out 
center, mix with an equal quantity of nicely seasoned bread 
crumbs, divide into the two shells, dot with bits of butter, and 
bake in hot oven fifteen minutes. 

Place eggs on top and serve hot. If liked, a little grated 
cheese may be sprinkled over the top. 

Or, cut a good-sized eggplant in six slices, leaving skin on one 



VEGETABLES 135 

side of each piece to hold slices together. Cook in boiling salted 
water ten minutes, then lay in iced water thirty minutes. 

Make an incision in each slice and fry all in smoking hot fat. 
Scoop out fleshy part of plant, stuffing pieces with a forcemeat of 
bread crumbs and sausage, or bread crumbs and chopped boiled 
ham, parsley, onion juice, salt, and pepper. Make these into a 
paste with one beaten egg or a little cream. Sprinkle soft bread 
crumbs and a little vegetable oil over the eggplant, then place 
it in a hot oven and bake until browned. 

Stuffed Onions 

6 medium-sized onions 2 hard-cooked eggs 

1 slice bread 1 tablespoon chopped parsley 
Milk 1 teaspoon salt 

4 tablespoons (1 oz.) grated ^ teaspoon pepper 

cheese 3 tablespoons cream 

White or brown sauce 

Remove centers from onions with a cutter, Blanch onions 
in boiling water, drain, and stuff them. Soak bread in milk, 
squeeze out milk, and mix bread with cheese, yolks rubbed 
through sieve, parsley, seasonings, and cream. Mix and divide 
into onions, dip in flour, and fry in smoking hot fat. Drain, pour 
sauce over, and garnish with chopped egg whites. 

Stuffed Peppers 

6 good-sized green peppers 1 egg, beaten 

4 cups (1 qt.) water I teaspoon salt 

2 tablespoons (1 oz.) drippings, J teaspoon made mustard 
melted 1 cup (4 ozs.) chopped cooked 

1 cup (4 ozs.) bread crumbs meat 

3 tablespoons milk or gravy 

Remove seeds and pith from peppers. Boil peppers in water 
fifteen minutes, then drain. Pour drippings over bread crumbs, 
add egg, seasonings, meat, and gravy. Mix well and divide 
into peppers. Bake in moderate oven until tender, serve hot. 

Another Method. Cut tops from eight green peppers, remove 
seeds, and fill with following mixture. Mix one cup boiled rice 
with one half pound each of beef and salt pork chopped fine, one 



136 ECONOMICAL COOKERY 

chopped onion, one beaten egg, one half teaspoon salt, one half 
teaspoon pepper, and use. Tie tops on with string and cook in 
tomato sauce until tender, serve hot. 

Stuffed Tomatoes 

7 tomatoes i teaspoon white pepper 

2 cups (1 pt.) cooked rice 4 tablespoons (2 ozs.) butter sub- 

1^ teaspoons salt stitute 

^ teaspoon paprika 1 cup (^ pt.) milk or cream 

Cut slices off stem ends of tomatoes and remove pulp. Mix 
pulp with rice, seasonings, butter substitute, and milk. Fill 
tomato shells with mixture, replace " covers ", place on greased 
tins, and bake in hot oven thirty minutes. Serve garnished 
with parsley. If liked, a little chopped, cold, cooked chicken 
may be added to mixture. Corn or macaroni may be used in the 
same way. 

Squash Puff 

1 cup (^ pt.) boiled mashed 1 tablespoon butter substitute 

squash ^ teaspoon salt 

1 cup (2 pt.) boiled mashed sweet | teaspoon pepper 

potatoes 2 eggs, beaten 

1 cup (I pt.) milk 

Mix squash and potatoes, add butter substitute softened, 
seasonings, eggs, and milk. Mix well, divide into greased, 
individual serving dishes, and bake in a hot oven until mixture 
is puffed and firm. Serve at once. 

Baked Squash Is Delicious. Cut large squash in quarters and 
remove seeds. Place in moderate oven and bake until tender. 
Scrape into a bowl, add two tablespoons butter, one half tea- 
spoon salt, one half teaspoon pepper, and two tablespoons 
cream; mash and beat until light. Put into greased fireproof 
dish, dot with small pieces of butter, reheat, and serve. 

Pumpkin may be cooked in the same way. 

Tomatoes and Brussels Sprouts 

4 ripe tomatoes, peeled 1 teaspoon salt 

^ cup (4 ozs.) drippings ^ teaspoon paprika 

1 pound cooked Brussels sprouts 6 sHces fried bacon 




Stuffed Egg Plant with Eggs. Page 134- 




Stewed Endive. Page 134- 




Stuffed Tomatoes. Page 136. 




Cailiflowku and BurssKLs Si'itouTS Salad. Ihuie 141- 



( 




Marshmallow FunT Salad, /'rtf/e 14-^- 




Cabbage, Apple, and Nut Salad. Page I40. 



VEGETABLES 137 

Slice tomatoes and fry them in frying pan with one half of 
drippings. AVhen done, remove to platter and keep hot. Melt 
remainder of drippings in same pan, add Brussels sprouts well 
drained, and fry them a few minutes. Add seasonings, turn on 
to hot dish, and garnish with tomatoes and bacon. 

Turnips Mashed 

Turnips Salt and pepper 

Drippings 

Wash the required number of turnips, then peel and boil in 
plenty of boiling salted water until tender. Drain and return 
turnips to pan, mash them with a fork until free from lumps, 
add salt and pepper to taste, a little drippmgs, and, if liked, a 
pinch of nutmeg. Mix thoroughly and serve hot. One table- 
spoon hot cream added at the last will be found an improvement. 

Turnips are generally served with mutton. 



CHAPTER XII 
SALADS AND SALAD DRESSINGS 

'' An olive, capers or some better salad." 

There are not many pleasant er dishes than salads when served 
in a pretty salad bowl or in individual dishes. For the benefit 
of the thrifty housewife it may be added that few things are more 
economical, as they utilize all sorts of scraps. 

Many people declare that the liking for salads is an acquired 
taste. It is an excellent taste to acquire! Salad greens have 
but little nutriment, but they are valuable, nevertheless, for the 
potash salts that they contain, as well as for their cooling prop- 
erties. 

Many housewives make but one kind of salad dressing to 
answer for each and all salads, forgetting that mayonnaise or a 
boiled salad dressing is much too heavy for many of the more 
delicate greens. Watercress especially demands a French dress- 
ing, and lettuce, endive, celery, and cucumber are equally good 
with it. 

In making a salad only the best oil and vinegar should be 
used, and the greens must not be soused with water, but, after 
washiQg, they should be thoroughly well drained, and tossed 
well in dry cloths or in a salad drainer to get rid of all the mois- 
ture. Never on any account cut up lettuce, but break the leaves 
into pieces of the desired size, and remember that the salad 
should not be drenched with the dressing, but just lightly tossed 
in it. It is a great improvement to plain salads to sprinkle 
them with some finely chopped herbs, such as parsley, chives, 
tarragon, etc. 

Fruit salads are always popular. A good fruit salad always 

138 



SALADS AND SALAD DRESSINGS 139 

makes a pleasant change from the plain, ripe fruit itself. It is a 
way of taking mixed things, with the maximum of benefit to the 
system. 

The gums, pectins, and fruit sugars contained in the natural 
fruits, their innate sulphur, most helpful of salts when in mixture 
with the different acids; their quantities of iron, citrates, tar- 
trates, and other good saline constituents, make a proper mixture 
of them a very desirable matter. 

Nothing but the best fruit in perfect condition should be 
allowed to enter the salad bowl. No amount of disguise can do 
away with the permeating flavor of an inferior article. Fruit is 
plentiful, cheap, and good ; therefore there should be no tempta- 
tion to practice false economy by purchasing a poor quality. 

Orange, banana, and apple are excellent, as are also orange, 
banana, and pineapple, fresh or canned. The flavor of fruit 
salads may be improved by rubbing on the rind of a lemon one 
or two lumps of sugar, crushing these, and using them with a 
little powdered sugar. Bananas combine well with any kind 
of juicy fruit, and the following may be recommended : Bananas 
and apricots, both sliced, with a little chopped pineapple; 
bananas and stoned cherries, with orange flavored sugar; 
bananas and raspberries, with or without some red currants; 
bananas and strawberries, divided in halves or quartered, if 
very large. A greater number of fruits may be combined success- 
fully, such as bananas, stoned cherries, sliced pineapple, melon, 
peaches, apricots, seeded and skinned grapes, and apples and 
pears in thin slices. Red currants and strawberries, red and 
white currants and red raspberries mix well with thinly cut 
slices of apples, or with the ever useful banana. 

Banana Salad 

Bananas Chopped celery 

Crisp lettuce leaves Chopped nut meats 

Mayonnaise dressing 

Cut each banana in five lengthwise strips and place each on 
lettuce leaves in shape of a star. Sprinkle with celery and nut 
meats and cover lightly with mayonnaise. 



140 ECONOMICAL COOKERY 

Beet and Cabbage Salad 

1 cup (5 pt.) cooked beets, 1 cup (i pt.) cabbage, chopped 
chopped 1 small onion, chopped 

Mix beets, cabbage, and onion together thoroughly, cover 
with dressing, and garnish with crisp watercress and whites of 
eggs cooked hard and chopped. 

Salad Dressing 

1 teaspoon salt 2 egg yolks 

1 teaspoon mustard I5 tablespoons melted butter 

1| teaspoons sugar 6 tablespoons (f cup) evapo- 

^ tablespoon flour , rated milk 

5 teaspoon red pepper 12 tablespoons (| cup) water 

4 tablespoons (| cup) vinegar 

For Dressing. Mix seasonings with flour, add yolks slightly 
beaten, butter, milk, water, and vinegar. Cook over slow fire 
until it thickens; strain and cool. 

Bungalow Salad 

I5 cups (I pt.) apples, chopped 1 teaspoon mustard 

fine 1 teaspoon flour 

1^ cups (f pt.) cabbage, chopped 1 tablespoon water 

fine 1 cup (I pt.) vinegar 

^ cup (2 ozs.) peanuts, chopped 1 tablespoon (| oz.) butter 

5 teaspoon celery salt 2 tablespoons (1 oz.) sugar 

2 egg yolks | teaspoon salt 

Mix apples, cabbage, nuts, and celery salt. Beat up yolks of 
eggs, add mustard and flour mixed with water. Pour vinegar 
into a saucepan, add butter, sugar, and salt, and bring to boiling 
point ; then add egg mixture and again bring to boiling point. 
Take from fire and let cool. Pour over salad and garnish with 
sprigs of parsley. 

Cabbage, Apple, and Nut Salad 

1 firm cabbage 5 apples, peeled and sliced 

1 cup (4 ozs.) walnut meats, 2 tablespoons lemon juice 

broken Boiled or mayonnaise dressing 

Parsley 



SALADS AND SALAD DRESSINGS 141 

Remove center and outside leaves from cabbage, leaving a 
neat shell. Sprinkle lemon juice over apples, mix with nut 
meats, and fill into cabbage. Garnish with parsley and serve with 
boiled or mayonnaise dressing. 

Carrot Salad 

8 carrots ^ teaspoon salt 

1 egg 8 tablespoons vinegar 

1 pinch soda I teaspoon paprika 

4 tablespoons ohve oil | cup (1 gill) whipped cream 

Parsley 

Wash carrots, put them in saucepan, cover with cold salted 
water, and cook slowly until tender. Drain and cover with cold 
water. Remove skins and serve covered with the dressing and 
garnished with parsley. Beat egg in upper pan of double boiler, 
add soda and oil slowly, beating constantly until egg thickens. 
Now add salt, vinegar, and paprika and cook over hot water 
until thick as cream, stirring constantly. Take from fire and set 
aside to cool. Mix with cream at serving time. 

Cauliflower and Brussels Sprouts Salad 

1 cooked cauliflower 1 cup (§ pt.) cooked beans 

1 box Brussels sprouts, cooked A few radishes 

French dressing Boiled or mayonnaise dressing 

Break cauliflower into flowerets and marinade these and 
Brussels sprouts with French dressing. Drain and arrange them 
in a salad dish, garnish with beans and radishes, and serve 
with boiled or mayonnaise dressing. 

Celery and Cheese Salad 

8 stalks celery Crisp lettuce leaves 

^ cup (2 ozs.) grated cheese Mayonnaise dressing 

2 pimientoes, canned red peppers Lemon slices 

Cleanse stalks of celery and cut four inches long. Chop 
pimientoes, mix with cheese, and fill into celery. Serve cold 
on lettuce leaves with mayonnaise and garnish with lemon. 
Small blocks of cranberry jelly are an improvement to celery 
salads. 



142 ECONOMICAL COOKERY 



Codfish Salad 



1 thick slice codfish I teaspoonful pepper 

1 bunch herbs I teaspoonful mustard seeds 

6 tablespoonfuls olive oil Crisp lettuce leaves 

4 tablespoonfuls vinegar Tomatoes 

1 teaspoonful salt Mayonnaise sauce 

1 peeled and chopped cucumber 

Steam the fish with the herbs for thirty minutes, or until the 
flesh separates from the bones. Remove the skin and bones and 
flake the fish. Beat up the oil, vinegar, and seasonings together 
and pour this dressing over the fish and cool. Arrange nests of 
lettuce leaves on a salad dish and fill with the fish. Have small 
chilled tomatoes or halves of larger ones scooped out and filled 
with the cucumber and mayonnaise sauce. Place a tomato cup 
at the top of each portion and serve. 

Cold Meat Salad 

2 cups (1 lb.) cold meat 1 green pepper 

5 cup (2 ozs.) chopped celery 2 teaspoons chopped parsley 

1 cooked beet 5 tablespoons French dressing 

2 boiled potatoes Bermuda onions 

Cut potatoes, beet, meat, and green pepper into small, neat 
pieces. Mix them with parsley, celery, and] French dressing 
and serve very cold, garnished with thinly sliced Bermuda 
onions. 

Egg and Cabbage Salad 

1 white firm cabbage 1 sour orange 

6 cold potatoes 4 hard-cooked eggs 

1 cooked beet 1 cup (f pt.) tartare sauce 

1 onion, chopped Salt and pepper 

Boil cabbage until tender ; drain carefully, and press between 
two heavy platters until quite cold, then slice and mix with 
potatoes, beet, onion, orange cut in small pieces, and eggs cut 
in quarters. Place in a salad bowl, pour over the sauce, season 
to taste with salt and pepper, mix gently, and serve with any 
kind of cold roasted or boiled meats. 



SALADS AND SALAD DRESSINGS 143 

Individual Cherry Salads 

Lettuce leaves Peppermint extract 

Watercress Nut meats 

Mayonnaise dressing Crystallized ginger 

Red, white, green cherries Marshmallows 

Place lettuce leaf on salad plate. Make small nest of water- 
cress by winding it together and set nest in center of plate. 
Drop in next a tablespoon of mayonnaise. Take cover from 
bottle of green cherries and drop six drops peppermint extract 
into sirup the day before wanted. Drain the three kinds of 
cherries. Stuff green ones with small pieces of nuts, white 
ones with ginger, red ones with marshmallows cut. Place two of 
each color in each nest and chill before serving. 

Another Method. Take equal quantities of stoned white 
cherries and cooked and chilled string beans. Serve with 
dressing made of two tablespoons olive or vegetable oil, one half 
teaspoon salt, one fourth teaspoon each pepper and paprika, 
pinch of sugar, and four tablespoons of liquor from cherries. 
Blend well and pour over salad. 

Jenny Lind Salad 

6 bananas, diced h cup (2 ozs.) English wahiut 

1 cucumber, diced meats, chopped fine 

1 cup (^ pt.) seeded white grapes Mayonnaise dressing 
Crisp lettuce leaves 

Mix bananas, cucumber, grapes, and nuts, moisten with 
mayonnaise, and serve on lettuce leaves with a few seeded 
grapes on top. 

Marshmallow Fruit Salad 

40 (Hb.) marshmallows i cup (2 ozs.) chopped nut meats 

Mayonnaise dressing 1 can pineapple, chopped 

1 can white cherries, stoned § cup (2 ozs.) chopped preserved 

ginger 

Mix marshmallows with mayonnaise and let stand twenty 
minutes. Just before serving add fruit and nuts and a little more 
mayonnaise. The mayonnaise should be made with less vinegar 
and more cream than usual. Or use following dressing instead 



144 ECONOMICAL COOKERY 

of mayonnaise : Beat up one egg white to a stiff froth, add two 
bananas rubbed through a sieve, add two tablespoons each lemon 
and orange juice, three tablespoons sugar or honey, and four 
tablespoons whipped cream. Mix lightly and use. 

Orange and Date Salad 

Crisp lettuce leaves 1 package dates, stoned 

5 oranges French or mayonnaise dressing 

Line salad dish with lettuce leaves. Peel and slice oranges, 
lay slices on lettuce, add dates, and serve with salad dressing. 

Orange Salad 

An Orange Salad that is delicious is made as follows: Cut 
six oranges in halves and remove pulp and sections. To pulp 
add four tablespoons sugar or honey, three tablespoons chopped 
mint, four tablespoons orange juice, and two tablespoons lemon 
juice. Chill and divide into glasses and serve with a candied 
cherry on top of each. 

Oyster and Celery Salad 

24 large oysters Crisp lettuce leaves 

Diced celery Stiff mayonnaise dressing 

3 chopped sweet pickles 

Cook oysters in their juice till edges curl; drain and chill; 
cut each oyster in two, without cutting into soft part ; measure 
an equal quantity of celery and set on ice to crisp ; mix the two, 
lay on lettuce leaves, cover with mayonnaise, and garnish with 
pickles. 

Pea and Sardine Salad 

1 can peas Mayonnaise dressing 

1 can sardines Crisp lettuce leaves 

2 hard-cooked eggs, sHced 

Turn out peas and sardines and leave in cool place one hour. 
Drain well, mash fine, mix with mayonnaise, serve on lettuce, 
and garnish with eggs. 

The pea and sardine mixture is excellent for sandwiches. 



SALADS AND SALAD DRESSINGS 145 

Pepper, Nut, and Cheese Salad 

3 medium-sized sweet green 1 package cream cheese 
peppers Crisp lettuce leaves 

1 cup (4 ozs.) English walnuts or Mayonnaise dressing 

pecans 

Seed peppers and allow to lie in cold water fifteen minutes, 
then drain and dry. Put nut meats through food chopper, 
mix with cheese, and stuff peppers. Cut peppers in thin slices 
and serve on lettuce leaves with mayonnaise. 

Pineapple Salad 

1 can pineapple, sHced and 3 tablespoons (1^ ozs.) sugar 

chopped 5 tablespoons vinegar 

1 cup (j lb.) chopped nut meats ^ tablespoon butter 

1 cup (I pt.) celery, chopped fine 1 pinch salt 

1 egg f cup (1| gills) milk 

1 tablespoon flour Lettuce leaves 

Mix pineapple, nuts, and celery together and chill. Beat 
egg in upper pan of double boiler, add flour mixed with sugar, 
vinegar, butter, salt, and milk, and cook over hot water until 
thick. Take from fire, cool, and mix with salad. Serve on 
lettuce leaves. 

Potato and Cauliflower Salad 

2 cups (1 pt.) cold boiled potatoes 1 tablespoon celery salt 

2 cups (1 pt.) cold boiled cauli- 2 tablespoons (1 oz.) butter sub- 
flower stitute 

4 tablespoons vinegar 1 tablespoon made mustard 

Watercress 
Cut potatoes and cauliflower into small pieces and mix them 
well. Melt butter substitute in small saucepan, add vinegar, 
celery salt, and mustard ; heat to boiling point, pour hot over 
the salad, and serve very cold on a bed of cress. 

Potato Salad 

10 medium-sized potatoes, I lb. fat bacon 

cooked 4 tablespoons vinegar 

1 medium-sized onion, cut fine 1 cup (^ pt.) cream 

1 stalk celery, cut fine 1 teaspoon salt 
5 teaspoon pepper 



146 ECONOMICAL COOKERY 

Cut potatoes in slices, mix with onion and celery. If celery 
is not available use celery salt. Cut bacon in dice and brown, 
add vinegar, cream, and seasonings, and mix well. Pour over 
potatoes, onion, and celery and toss lightly together. 

Prune Salad 

5 pound prunes 1 teaspoon lemon juice 

I cup (2 ozs.) sugar ^ teaspoon salt 

1 cream cheese I teaspoon paprika 

5 cup (2 ozs.) chopped nut meats Crisp lettuce leaves 
French dressing 

Wash prunes and soak them in cold water four hours. Cook 
until tender, add sugar, and cool. Remove stones. Mix cheese, 
nuts, lemon juice, and seasonings and fill prunes with this 
mixture. Chill and serve on lettuce with French dressing. 

Red Cabbage and Celery Salad 

1 red cabbage I teaspoon sugar 

1 head celery 5 teaspoon mustard 

1 egg § teaspoon salt 

1 tablespoon olive oil I teaspoon pepper 

1 tablespoon wine vinegar 2 gherkins, shced 

Trim outside leaves off cabbage, cut inner portion mto 
quarters, and remove from centers all stalks. Cut the rest into 
fine shreds, put into salad bowl, and add celery stalks cut in 
inch pieces. Beat up egg, stir in gradually oil, vinegar, and 
seasonings. Pour over cabbage and celery and garnish with 
gherkins. 

Tuna Fish Salad 

1 can tuna fish 2 hard-cooked eggs, cut in small 

1 small bottle stuffed olives pieces 

^ cup (2 ozs.) celery, chopped | teaspoon salt 
fine § teaspoon paprika 

2 green onions, cut fine 1 cup (^ pt.) salad dressing 

Lettuce leaves 

Flake fish, add olives, celery, onions, eggs, seasonings, and 
salad dressing. Mix and serve on lettuce. 



SALADS AND SALAD DRESSINGS 147 

Winter Salad 

1 cup (^ pt.) cold cooked turnips, 1 cup (? pt.) cold cooked pota- 
diced toes, diced 

1 cup (I pt.) cold cooked carrots, 1 tablespoon chopped parsley- 
diced i cup (1 gill) French dressing 
1 teaspoon grated horse-radish 

Arrange vegetables in salad bowl and sprinkle over parsley. 
Mix French dressing with horse-radish and pour over vegetables. 
Chill before serving. 

Buttermilk Dressing 

1 cup (f pt.) buttermilk ^ teaspoon salt 

2 1 tablespoons vinegar or lemon § teaspoon paprika 

juice i teaspoon white pepper 

Into a bowl pour buttermilk, add vinegar and seasonings, 
and beat until thick. Serve with peeled and thinly sliced 
cucumbers. If served on whole or peeled and sliced tomatoes, 
add one teaspoon grated fresh horse-radish. 

Sour Cream Dressing 

Beat one cup sour cream until light, add two tablespoons 
vinegar, one tablespoon lemon juice, one teaspoon each salt 
and sugar, and one fourth teaspoon each white pepper and 
made mustard. Beat until thick and serve with salads. If liked, 
six tablespoons mushroom or tomato catchup may be added 
to dressing. 

French Dressing 

6 tablespoons ohve oil or vege- I teaspoon pepper 

table oil 2 tablespoons vinegar or lemon 

^ teaspoon salt juice 

Set a small bowl in dish of crushed ice and pour in oil, beat 
in seasonings, a little at a time, until well mixed, then add 
gradually vinegar or lemon juice and beat until thoroughly 
blended. Serve at once. 

This may be varied by adding a little onion juice, or by rubbing 
the bowl with a cut clove of garlic, or by adding a little grated 



148 ECONOMICAL COOKERY 

cheese, or yolks of hard-cooked eggs run through a sieve. A 
little prepared mustard or tomato puree is sometimes used to 
vary the flavor. 

Roquefort Dressing is made by mixing in one half ounce of 
Roquefort cheese. 

Chutney Dressing is made by addmg two tablespoons chopped 
chutney. 

Chiffonade Dressing is made by mixing two tablespoons each 
chopped parsley and chopped red peppers, one teaspoon chopped 
shallot, two hard-cooked eggs, — yolks and whites chopped 
separately, — one teaspoon salt, one half teaspoon black pepper, 
one fourth teaspoon paprika, five tablespoons olive oil, and two 
tablespoons vinegar. Chill and shake well before using on any 
green salad. 

Italian Dressing 

1 clove garhc 1 teaspoon salt 

^ teaspoon paprika 1 tablespoon thick tomato 

^ cup (1 gill) olive or vegetable catchup 

table oil 2 tablespoons tarragon vinegar 

Chop garhc and mash it with salt, paprika, and tomato 
catchup, then stir in, a few drops at a time, the oil. Beat until 
smooth and add vinegar, a little at a time. 

This, like French dressing, should be made over cracked ice 
and served at once. 

Mayonnaise Dressing 

1 teaspoon dry mustard 2 egg yolks 

^ teaspoon fine salt 1 cup (^ pt.) ohve oil 

I teaspoon paprika Lemon juice 

I teaspoon onion juice 

The eggs and oil must be thoroughly chilled, and the bowl in 
which the mixing is done should be set in a pan of cracked ice. 

Mix mustard, salt, and paprika, drop in eggs, and beat with 
wooden spoon until mixed. Add oil, a drop at a time, beating 
steadily. When it becomes thick, add a little lemon juice, then 
alternate oil and lemon juice until all the oil is in. Two cups 
of oil may be worked in if enough lemon juice is used. Add 
onion juice and set. on ice until required. 



SALADS AND SALAD DRESSINGS 149 

If this is to be used on fruits, the mustard and onion juice 
should be left out, and when ready to serve combine equal parts 
of whipped cream and mayonnaise. 

Good vinegar may be used in place of the lemon juice. 

A tartare sauce for fish and salads can be made by adding to 
some of this dressing a little finely chopped onion, pickles, or 
olives, one teaspoon chopped parsley, a little tarragon, and 
capers to suit one's taste. 

If the dressing curdles, start again with a clean bowl and an- 
other egg yolk. Add a small quantity of fresh oil, teaspoonful 
by teaspoonful, stirring all the while and adding the curdled 
dressing. In this way it need not be wasted, and the final results 
will *be good. 

Russian Dressing 

2 egg yolks I teaspoon paprika 

1 cup (^ pt.) olive or vegetable 1 tablespoon finely chopped green 
oil pepper 

2 tablespoons lemon juice 1 chopped pimiento (canned red 
1 teaspoon mustard pepper) 

I teaspoon salt ^ teaspoon onion juice 

1 tablespoon chili sauce 

Beat eggs and add a few drops of oil at a time until mixture 
begins to thicken, then alternate oil and lem.on juice, continue 
beating until all is used, and mix the seasonings and add. Chill 
and when ready to serve beat in the peppers, onion juice, and 
chili sauce. 

Salad Dressing That Will Keep 

1 teaspoon mustard 1 tablespoon (| oz.) butter, 

3 teaspoons sugar melted 

1 teaspoon salt 2 egg yolks, beaten 

1 teaspoon celery salt 1 tablespoon vinegar 

Mix dry ingredients in a saucepan, add butter, eggs, and 
vinegar, heat over hot water until it thickens, stirring all the 
time. Do not allow to boil. Bottle when cold, and it will keep 
some weeks. 

Another Method. Take one egg, two tablespoons vinegar, 
four tablespoons milk, two teaspoons oil or melted butter, 



150 ECONOMICAL COOKERY 

one half teaspoon each of salt and mustard, and one fourth 
teaspoon pepper. If butter is used instead of oil, it is added 
just before taking from the fire. If oil is used, mix it thoroughly 
with the dry ingredients, then add the egg and beat for three 
minutes, then beat in the vinegar for a minute. Add the milk 
and put the whole into a double boiler, cooking until thick and 
stirring all the while. Cook for nearly ten minutes. This 
dressing can be bottled and kept in a cool place for one week or 
more. 



CHAPTER XIII 
PUDDINGS 

' " Variety is the mother of enjoyment." 

1A.LL ingredients for puddings should be fresh and of good 
quality. It is a false economy to use for them any materials 
that have been too long stored, as the slightest degree of musti- 
ness in any one of the articles will spoil all that are combined with 
it. Eggs should always be broken separately into a cup before 
they are added to the other ingredients, as a single bad one will 
occasion the loss of many when this precaution is neglected. 
The perfect sweetness of suet and milk should be especially at- 
tended to before they are mixed into a pudding, as nothing can 
be more offensive than the first when it is kept too long, nor 
worse in its effect than the curdling of the milk, which is the 
certain result of its being soured. 

Fruits should be cleaned with great care ; the rinds of oranges 
and lemons grated lightly off, that the bitter part of the skin may 
be avoided ; if pared, they should be cut as thin as possible. 

A very little salt improves all sweet puddings, taking off the 
insipidity and bringing out the full flavor of the other ingre- 
dients, but its presence should not be perceptible. 

Puddings are as a rule either boiled, steamed, or baked. When 
boihng puddings, the mold or bowl must be quite full, or the 
water will get in. Cover with a greased paper, then tie a cloth 
over the top, and tie the four corners of the cloth across. Place 
the pudding in a saucepan with boiling water to well cover, and 
keep the water boiling the whole time. If more water be added, 
it must be boiling. 

For pudding cloths, use material such as linen or cheesecloth. 
Puddings are li";hter when steamed than when boiled, but a 
longer time must then be allowed for cooking, from one third to 

151 



152 ECONOMICAL COOKERY 

twice the time. In steaming puddings, have them at a uniform 
heat all the time, and be careful not to lift the lid off the pan for 
the first thirty mmutes. When steaming a pudding, the mold 
need not be quite full, but it must be covered with a greased 
paper or lid to keep the water out. Very light puddmgs, such 
as custards or souffles, should be placed in a steamer. Puddings 
made of suet may stand in a saucepan with boiling water to 
come about a third the depth of the mold, taking care that the 
water does not boil over into the pudding. Most of the suet 
puddings, mixed a little softer, are excellent baked in a pudding 
dish. Cornstarch for puddings must be well cooked, from eight 
to ten minutes. Batters must be well beaten and allow^ed to 
stand for thirty minutes or longer before cooking, because the 
starch in the flour swells. Batter puddings should be put into a 
quick oven. Puddings composed principally of eggs and milk 
should be gently cooked, as strong heat will cause them to curdle. 
When a pudding is served it should round out the meal, 
furnishing something that is lacking. If the meal has not con- 
tained enough starchy food, use a pudding made of bread, 
tapioca, rice, or corn meal. 

Apple Custards 

2 cups (1 pt.) milk 1 pinch salt 

2 eggs, separated I2 cups (4) apples, grated 

3 tablespoons (H ozs.) sugar 1 teaspoon lemon extract 

1 tablespoon cornstarch 1 tablespoon powdered sugar 

Heat milk to boiling point, then pour over sugar mixed 
with cornstarch, salt, and yolks of eggs. Let boil up just 
once. Into this stir apples and lemon extract. Divide into 
seven greased custard cups, cover with whites of eggs beaten 
to a stiff froth and sweetened with powdered sugar, and 
brown lightly in a quick oven. 

Apple Rolls and Sauce 

1 cup (I lb.) potato flour 1 tablespoon (^ oz.) butter 

1 cup (I lb.) flour 1 teaspoon powdered nutmeg 

2 teaspoons baking powder 1 teaspoon powdered cinnamon 
2 tablespoons (1 oz.) lard 2 tablespoons brown sugar 

I cup m gills) milk 4 tart apples, diced 



PUDDINGS 153 

Sift flours and baking powder into a bowl, cut and rub in 
lard, and make into soft dough with milk. Roll out on 
floured baking board, spread with butter, spices, and brown 
sugar mixed together, sprinkle over apples, wet edges with 
water, and roll up like jelly roll. Cut in slices, place them in 
a greased tin, cover with the sauce, and bake in a moderate 
oven thirty-five minutes. 

Sauce 

1 cup (^ lb.) sugar or honey I teaspoon salt 

1 tablespoon (^ oz.) butter 1 cup (^ pt.) boiling water 

1 tablespoon potato flour ^ lemon and juice 

Put all ingredients into a saucepan, stir until boiling, and 
pour over apples. 

Baked Apples and Rice 

Good cooking apples Cream 

Boiled rice Nutmeg 

Salt Sugar 

Butter Ice cream 

Pare and remove core from required amount of apples, 
place in greased fireproof dish, and fill centers with rice, 
season to taste with salt, butter, cream, and nutmeg. Sprinkle 
apples over with sugar. Pour in four tablespoons of boiling 
water and bake in slow oven till apples are tender. Serve 
with ice cream. Cold cooked tapioca may be used in place 
of rice. 

Baked Rice Pudding 

4 cups (1 qt.) milk 1 cup (I lb.) seeded raisins 

5 tablespoons (21 ozs.) sugar or 1 teaspoon powdered cinnamon 
honey | teaspoon powdered mace 

3 tablespoons uncooked rice 2 tablespoons (1 oz.) butter sub- 

stitute 

Put milk into a bowl, add sugar, rice, butter substitute, 
raisins, and spices, and mix well together. Pour into a 
greased baking dish and bake one hour in a moderate oven. 



154 ECONOMICAL COOKERY 

Another Method. Add to one cup cooked rice, two beaten 
eggs, and one half cup honey or sirup. Fill serving dish one 
half full of fresh fruit, cover with rice, and bake in moderate 
oven twenty minutes. Serve hot or cold with milk. 

Cherry Dumplings 

1 can cherries 2 teaspoons baking powder 

2 tablespoons (1 oz.) butter ^ teaspoon salt 

J cup (I5 ozs.) cornstarch f cup (1| gills) milk 

2 cups (^ lb.) flour 

Empty cherries into a saucepan, put on the range, then 
thicken with butter and cornstarch, adding a little sugar, if 
needed, until it has consistency of rich cream. Sift flour, 
baking powder, and salt into a bowl, stir in milk, and drop by 
spoonfuls into hot cherries. Cover and cook twelve to fifteen 
minutes. Serve hot. 



Chocolate Pudding 

1 cup (I lb.) sugar 1 egg, separated 

1 teaspoon flour 2 cups (1 pt.) milk 

3 teaspoons cocoa 1 teaspoon butter 

^ teaspoon vanilla extract 

Mix together sugar, flour, and cocoa in a small saucepan, add 
yolk of egg, and milk. Cook slowly ten minutes, stirring 
occasionally, take from fire, and stir in lightly well-beaten white 
of egg, butter, and vanilla. Pour into glass dish and serve cold. 



Dandy Orange Pudding 

Sauce 

3 cups (I5 pts.) boiling water 1 tablespoon (^ oz.) butter sub- 

f cup (6 ozs.) sugar or honey stitute 

2 large oranges 

Pour water into a saucepan, add sugar, butter, strained 
juice, and pulp of oranges. Boil ten minutes. 



PUDDINGS 155 



Batter 



f cup (4 ozs.) sugar or honey 2 teaspoons baking powder 

l|tablespoons(fozs.) butter sub- If cups (6 ozs.) flour or Graham 

stitute flour 

I cup (1 gill) milk I teaspoon powdered mace 

Cream sugar and butter together, add milk, flour sifted 
with baking powder, and mace. Beat well and drop by spoon- 
fuls into hot sauce. Bake twenty-five minutes; serve hot. 
Sufficient for six persons. This pudding is economical and 
delectable. 

Ginger Pudding with Vanilla Sauce 

1 cup (4 ozs.) butter or lard 3f teaspoons baking powder 
5 cup (\ ozs.) sugar or honey j teaspoon salt 

2 cups (I lb.) flour or Graham 2 teaspoons powdered ginger 
flour 1 cup (f pt.) milk 

1 egg, beaten 

Cream butter and sugar, add flour sifted with baking powder, 
salt, and ginger, then add milk, and egg. Mix well and turn 
into greased mold, cover with greased paper, and steam steadily 
two hours. Serve hot with sauce. 

Vanilla Sauce 

I cup (4 ozs.) sugar or honey 2 tablespoons (1 oz.) butter sub- 

1 tablespoon cornstarch stitute 

1 cup (I pt.) boiling water 1 teaspoon vanilla extract 

Mix sugar and cornstarch in pan, add water, and boil five 
minutes; take from fire, add butter substitute, vanilla, and 
serve. 

Individual Pineapple Trifles 

Sliced canned pineapple Whipped and sweetened cream or 

Slices stale white or sponge cake whipped evaporated milk 
f cup (2 ozs.) chopped nut meats Seeded raisins or preserved cher- 
ries 

Put rounds of cake on serving dish, place pineapple slices on 
top, fill centers of pineapple with nut meats mixed with a little 
pineapple sirup, top with cream, and decorate with raisins or 
cherries. 



156 ECONOMICAL COOKERY 

Jelly sponge 

2 cups (1 pt.) boiling water 2 egg whites 

1 package jelly powder j cup (2 ozs.) sugar 

Pour water over powder and set aside to cool. Beat up 
whites of eggs to a stiff froth, beat in sugar, and gradually add 
cooled jelly. Beat fifteen minutes and serve in dainty glasses. 

Mountain Dew Pudding 

2 cups (1 pt.) milk 2 tablespoons cocoanut 

J cup (2 ozs.) sugar or honey ^ cup (2 ozs.) cracker crumbs 

2 eggs, separated | teaspoon lemon extract 

Mix milk with sugar, yolks of eggs, cocoanut, crumbs, and 
extract. Turn into greased pudding dish and bake in moderate 
oven thirty minutes. Beat up whites of eggs to stiff froth, beat 
in tablespoon of sugar, and spread over top. Serve hot with 
sauce. 

Sauce 

I cup (3 ozs.) brown sugar Hot water 

^ cup (4 ozs.) sugar or honey ^ teaspoon lemon extract 

1 tablespoon cornstarch | teaspoon vanilla extract 

Mix sugars with cornstarch in a saucepan and cook with 
enough water to make thick sauce. Flavor with lemon and 
vanilla. 

Oatmeal Pudding 

2 cups (1 lb.) left-over oatmeal | teaspoon salt 
porridge 1^ cups (f pt.) milk 

^ cup (2 ozs.) bread crumbs ^ teaspoon powdered nutmeg 

5 cup (3 ozs.) Sultana raisins 2 eggs, beaten 

1 apple, chopped | cup (4 ozs.) sugar or honey 

Mix oatmeal with bread crumbs, add raisins, apple, salt, milk, 
nutmeg, eggs, and sugar. Bake in a well-greased fireproof dish 
in a moderate oven twenty minutes. Serve with hot milk, or 
sweet sauce. 

Old-fashioned Indian Pudding 

4 cups (1 qt.) milk ^ cup (7 ozs.) molasses 

4 cups (1 qt.) skimmed milk 1 teaspoon salt 

1 cup (8 ozs.) sugar, brown or 1 teaspoon powdered ginger 

white 2 cup (3 ozs.) corn meal, scant 



PUDDINGS 157 

Pour one half of each kind of milk into a saucepan and place 
on the stove. When milk is hot, add sugar mixed with molasses, 
salt, ginger, corn, and a little of the cold milk, stirring steadily 
until it is well thickened. Turn into a well-greased pudding dish 
or casserole and bake in a slow oven. Add remainder of milk at 
two periods, two hours apart during the baking of eight hours. 
Whipped cream sweetened, flavored, and chilled adds to the 
pudding when served. 



Persimmon Pudding 

1 quart ripe persimmons 4 cups (1 qt.) milk 

1 cup (I lb.) sugar or honey 2 teaspoons baking powder 

2 eggs 1| cups (6 ozs.) flour 

1^ cups (6 ozs.) potato flour 

Pick over and steam persimmons, rub through a colander, and 
to pulp add sugar and eggs, beat three minutes, then add alter- 
nately milk and flours sifted with baking powder. Mix thoroughly 
and pour into a well-greased pudding dish or pan. Bake in 
moderate oven one and one half hours. This pudding will 
keep like fruit cake. 

Plum Pudding 

1 cup (4 ozs.) flour 1 cup (4 ozs.) chopped candied 

2 cups (I lb.) currants citron peel 

2 cups (^ lb.) chopped suet 1 teaspoon baking powder 

2 cups (12 ozs.) brown sugar 2 teaspoons ginger 

2 cups (I lb.) bread crumbs 1 teaspoon cinnamon 

1 cup (^ lb.) seeded raisins 1 teaspoon nutmeg 

1 cup (6 ozs.) Sultana raisins 1 teaspoon salt 

1 lemon 2 eggs, beaten 
1 cup a pt.) milk 

Sift flour into a bowl, add fruits, suet, sugar, crumbs, grated 
rind and strained juice of lemon, baking powder, spices, salt, 
eggs, and milk. Mix well, pour into greased mold, cover with 
greased paper, and steam steadily six hours. If divided into 
two puddings, five hours will be long enough to steam. Turn 
out and serve with hot milk or hard sauce. 



158 ECONOMICAL COOKERY 

Prune Roll 

21 cups (10 ozs.) flour or whole 2 tablespoons (1 oz.) shortening 

wheat flour Cold water 

2 tablespoons (1 oz.) sugar 1 pound prunes, cooked and 

2 teaspoons baking powder sweetened 

i teaspoon salt 1 teaspoon grated lemon rind 

Milk or cream 

Into a bowl sift flour, sugar, baking powder, and salt ; cut and 
rub in shortening and mix to soft dough with cold water. Divide 
into two equal parts and roll out to about one half inch in thick- 
ness. Spread stoned prunes on dough, sprinkle with lemon rind, 
roll up like jelly roll, and moisten edges with cold water. Have 
juice of prunes boiling in good-sized pan, place in the two rolls 
side by side, and bake in moderate oven three fourths of an hour. 
Slice and serve with milk or cream. 

Prune Whip 

2 cups (1 lb.) prunes 2 egg whites 

I cup (4 ozs.) sugar or honey i teaspoon salt 

1 cup (4 ozs.) chopped English 1 teaspoon lemon juice 

walnut meats Thin custard 

Wash prunes and boil until tender, then stone and chop fine, 
add sugar and nuts, and fold in stiffly beaten whites of eggs, add 
lemon juice and salt. Turn into greased pudding dish and bake 
in slow oven twenty-five minutes. Serve with thin custard made 
from yolks of eggs. 

Dates may be used instead of prunes. 

Rhubarb Shortcake 

I cup (4 ozs.) shortening 1 cup (^ lb.) sugar or honey 

1 egg, beaten § teaspoon salt 

1 cup (^ pt.) sour cream or | teaspoon soda 

buttermilk 2 cups (8 ozs.) flour 

Rhubarb sauce 1 cup (4 ozs.) corn flour 

Cream shortening and sugar together, add egg, salt, cream, 
soda, and flours. Turn out on floured baking board, divide in 
two pieces, roll out, and lay on greased tins. Bake in hot oven 
twenty minutes. Split open and fill with rhubarb, stewed. 



PUDDINGS 159 

Rice and Date Pudding 

§ cup (4 ozs.) rice 2 eggs, beaten 

4 cups (1 qt.) milk 1 cup (l lb.) dates, stoned 

1 tablespoon (| oz.) butter sub- 3 tablespoons sirup or honey 
stitute Cocoanut 

Put rice into a double boiler with milk and butter substitute 
and cook until all the milk is absorbed. Add eggs, dates chopped, 
and sirup or honey. Pour into a greased mold, cover with 
greased paper, and steam gently two hours. Turn out, cover 
with cocoanut, and serve with milk. 

Rolled Oats Pudding 

2 cups (1 pt.) cooked rolled oats 1 egg, beaten 

1 cup (i pt.) milk I teaspoon salt 

1 cup (4 ozs.) sugar or honey 1 teaspoon vanilla extract 

2 teaspoons cornstarch J cup (3 ozs.) Sultana raisins 

2 tablespoons cream { cup (2 ozs.) cocoanut, chopped 

Mix oats with milk, add sugar, cornstarch dissolved in cream, 
egg, salt, extract, and raisins. Turn into greased pudding dish, 
sprinkle over with cocoanut and bake in slow oven forty-five 
minutes. Serve hot with hot milk or cream. 

Strawberry Shortcake 

2 cups (^ lb.) flour 4 tablespoons (2 ozs.) butter sub- 

2 cups (^ lb.) corn flour stitute 

4 teaspoons baking powder 1| cups (f pt.) milk 

i teaspoon salt Strawberries 

Sweetened cream 

Sift flours, baking powder, and salt into a bowl, cut and rub 
in butter substitute, and make into soft dough with milk. 
Divide into two pieces, pat or roll out, and place in two greased 
pie tins and bake in hot oven twelve to fifteen minutes. When 
done, slit with a fork, butter both halves, cover lower half with 
generous layer of perfectly ripe, fresh strawberries, which should 
be plentifully sweetened and allowed to stand fifteen minutes 
before using. I consider it a decided improvement to crush 
berries enough to let juices escape so that they mingle with 
sugar. Place other half of shortcake on top of this, in an in- 



160 ECONOMICAL COOKERY 

verted position, crust down, cover with berries, adding a generous 
sprinkling of sugar at last. Serve with cream. Raspberries 
may be used in the same way. 

Strawberry Ring 

1 box ripe strawberries 6 ozs. (f- cup) sugar 

1| tablespoons (| oz.) powdered ^ lemon 

gelatine 1 cup (^ pt.) whipped cream or 

1 cup (f pt.) hot water whipped evaporated milk 

Dissolve gelatine in water, add strained lemon juice, sugar, 
and one half of strawberries rubbed through a sieve. Pour into 
wet ring mold and place in refrigerator until firm. Turn out, 
fill center with cream, and decorate with remaining strawberries. 

Sliced Peach Shortcake 

2 cups (§ ib.) flour or Graham 6 tablespoons (3 ozs.) butter sub- 
flour stitute 

1 cup (2 ozs.) sugar ^ cup (1 gill) milk 

^ teaspoon salt 2 cups (1 pt.) sliced peaches 

4 teaspoons baking powder Meringue or whipped and 

^ teaspoon powdered mace sweetened cream 

Into a bowl sift flour, sugar, salt, baking pow^der, and mace. 
Sift twice, then cut and rub in shortening. Stir in milk, 
turn out on well-floured board, and divide in two pieces. Roll 
out and place one layer on greased pie tin, dot with butter, place 
second layer over it, and bake in hot oven twenty to twenty- 
five minutes. Split and butter cake, put together, and cover 
with meringue and peaches. 

Steamed Shortcake 

1^ cups (6 ozs.) flour or Graham 3 tablespoons (If ozs.) shortening 

flour 1 egg, beaten 

^ teaspoon salt f cup (1 gill) water 

2 teaspoons baking powder 1 tablespoon (^ oz.) sugar 

Fresh or canned fruit 

Sift flour once, then measure and sift again with salt and 
baking powder. Cut and rub in shortening, then add egg and 



^4 _ •. -•^.'.-; 



ik^ 



>^ 



','' -^^ '^f^ #- ■^*'.' v"^^' 



KiCE AND Date Pudding. Paye 1-59. 




% . .^ 



Straavberry King. Page 160. 




> 



i 



f~'" ''^^ 







PUDDINGS 161 

water. Mix and turn into a small, well-greased pan, sprinkle 
over sugar, and steam one hour. Split open, fill, and cover 
with any kind of fresh or canned fruit. 

Wildwood Pudding 

6 apples 1 cup (4 ozs.) flour or Graham 

1 cup (4 ozs.) chopped nut meats flour 

1| cups (10 ozs.) sugar, brown or 1 teaspoon baking powder 

white 1 tablespoon (^ oz.) butter 

2 tablespoons lemon juice i cup (1 gill) orange juice 
2 eggs, beaten | cup (1 gill) honey 

1 cup (I pt.) boiling water 

Core, peel, and slice apples into buttered pudding dish. Over 
them sprinkle one half of the nuts, three fourths cupful of the 
sugar, and half of lemon juice. Beat butter with remainder of 
sugar, add one egg, orange juice, and flour sifted with baking 
powder. Pour this batter over apples and bake in moderate 
oven thirty-five minutes or until brown. Serve with sauce made 
as follows : 

Into small saucepan put honey, remainder of nuts, lemon juice, 
and egg ; add boiling water and bring to boiling point, stirring 
constantly. 

Steamed Meat Pudding 

1 pound beef 6 tablespoons stock or water 

4 sheep's kidneys 1 teaspoon salt 

1 tablespoon flour § teaspoon pepper 

Suet pastry 

Trim away all skin and superfluous fat and cut meat into 
strips. Split kidneys, remove skin and inside fat, and cut into 
small cubes. Line greased mold or basin with suet pastry which 
has been rolled out to one fourth inch thickness. Fill up with 
meat, kidneys, seasonings, flour, and stock ; cover with a lid of 
suet pastry, then cover with a greased paper and steam steadily 
four hours. One chopped onion may also be added for flavoring. 
When pudding is ready, turn out and serve with hot gravy. 

This dish is one that commends itself especially to the busy 
housewife, for if the pudding is made directly after breakfast 



162 ECONOMICAL COOKERY 

there is a long morning free for household duties, for the steamer 
needs no attention beyond the addition of a little boiling water 
now and then. Meat puddings need not necessarily be made of 
beef. Mutton puddings are excellent — neck of mutton can be 
utilized in the same way, and is particularly good when layers of 
sliced onions and potatoes alternate with meat. Rabbit cooked 
in a pudding is the most economical way of serving it. Onions 
and herbs make excellent flavoring, or it can be varied by rolling 
the joints in mixture of curry powder and flour before adding 
water. Old poultry which is too tough for anything but soup 
making can be rendered eatable in a pudding. 



CHAPTER XIV 
SWEET AND SAVORY SAUCES 

'' It provoketh a fine appetite if sauce your meat be by." 

It is an art to make a really good sauce — an art not sufficiently 
cultivated by the majority of cooks, yet one worthy of cultivation, 
for by means of a good sauce many ordinary dishes can often 
be redeemed from the commonplace. 

A smooth, well-flavored sauce is not so very difficult to manu- 
facture if a little care and thought are bestowed upon it. It 
need not be rich and elaborate, but it must be thoroughly blended 
and cooked; one seasoning must not unduly predominate 
over another, and it must be suitable for the dish with which 
it is to be served. 

Sauces have several uses : They may supply some food defi- 
ciency in the dish; they may help to counteract the extreme 
richness of a dish ; and they may simply act as an appetizer to 
an otherwise somewhat insipid dish. Sauces are economical, 
for they make whatever they are served with go farther. A 
little rather expensive fish, served in plenty of comparatively 
inexpensive sauce, will go a long way, and at the same time taste 
a great deal better for the addition. The same is true of meat, 
vegetables, and puddmgs. Left-overs can be heated up in 
fresh sauce, and will become hot and tempting dishes. The 
aims in sauce makmg are: to produce a well-flavored sauce, 
to make it of the right consistency, and to keep a good color. 

Sauces are qualified as follows : 

1. Sauces thickened with butter and flour cooked together 
to form a roux, either white or brown. Plain white and brown 
sauces, known as foundation sauces, and all the variations of 

163 



164 ECONOMICAL COOKERY 

the above obtained by the addition of extra, distinctive season- 
ings, such as parsley, onion, capers, eggs, etc. 

2. Sauces thickened with eggs, either cooked or uncooked. 

3. Sauces thickened with a httle blended flour or cornstarch, 
after the flavor of various ingredients has been extracted by 
long simmering. 

4. Vinegar combined with oil, eggs, or cream. 

5. Miscellaneous sauces. 

Apple Sauce 

1 cup (h pt.) apples, chopped 1 cup (^ pt.) water 

4 tablespoons (2 ozs.) sugar or 1 tablespoon lemon juice 
honey i teaspoon powdered nutmeg 

Cook apples in water until soft, add sugar and flavorings, and 
cook until sugar is dissolved ; rub through a sieve and use. 

If liked, one tablespoon potato flour, or cornstarch, or arrow- 
root may be added to above mixture. 

Another Method. Cook one cup brown sugar and one cup 
water until it is a sirup, then add ten chopped apples and one 
tablespoon lemon juice, and cook until apples are soft. 

Bread Sauce 

2 cups (1 pt.) milk 1 teaspoon salt 

I cup (2 ozs.) bread crumbs § teaspoon pepper 

1 onion j teaspoon paprika 

4 cloves 2 tablespoons (1 oz.) butter sub- 

stitute 

Put milk into double boiler, add bread crumbs, and cook forty 
minutes ; add onion stuck with cloves, seasonings, and butter 
substitute, and cook until onion is tender ; then remove onion 
and rub sauce through a sieve. Reheat and serve hot with 
roast fowl or roast game. 

Brown Sauce 

4 tablespoons (2 ozs.) butter sub- 4 tablespoons (1 oz.) flour or 

stitute cornstarch 

1 tomato, shced 1 cup (| pt.) brown stock or 
1 carrot, shced water 

1 onion, shced Salt and pepper 



SWEET AND SAVORY SAUCES 165 

Melt butter substitute, add tomato, carrot and onion, and 
fry until well browned, then stii' in flour and cook until well 
browned also ; add salt and pepper to taste and stock or water, 
and stir and cook eight minutes ; rub through a sieve, and it is 
ready for use. 

Caper Sauce 

2 tablespoons (1 oz.) butter sub- 1 cup (| pt.) boiling water 

stitute 3 tablespoons chopped capers 

2 tablespoons (^ oz.) flour 1 tablespoon vinegar 

2 tablespoons (| oz.) barley flour | teaspoon salt 

Blend butter substitute and flours in saucepan until smooth, 
stir in water, and when boiling, add capers, vinegar, and salt, 
cook eight minutes, and use. 

Chocolate Sauce 

2 squares (2 ozs.) chocolate 2 cups (1 pt.) hot water 

4 tablespoons (2 ozs.) sugar or 4 tablespoons (1 oz.) cornstarch 
honey Cold milk 

Melt chocolate with one half cup of the hot water, then add 
sugar or honey and remainder of hot water. Moisten cornstarch 
with sufficient milk to make it thickness of thin cream, add this 
to chocolate, and stir till sauce boils and thickens. 

Another Method. Into upper pan of a double boiler put one 
fourth cup sugar or honey, one egg yolk, one cup milk, pinch of 
salt, one teaspoon butter, one half teaspoon vanilla extract, and 
two squares of chocolate or three tablespoons cocoa. Cook 
over hot water, stirring constantly until spoon is coated. Serve 
hot or cold. 

Cranberry Sauce 

4 cups (1 qt.) cranberries | teacup (i gill) water 

2 cups (1 lb.) sugar 

Pick over and wash berries. To these add water and cook 
until broken to pieces, stirring often to prevent scorching. When 
berries are done add sugar, stir until it is dissolved, take from 
fire immediately, and rub through strainer into wet chilled mold. 
Put into a cool place until serving time. 



166 ECONOMICAL COOKERY 

Another Method. Put one pint sugar and one cup water into a 
saucepan and allow it to boil five minutes, remove from fire and 
stand five minutes. Wash one quart cranberries^ add them, and 
boil five minutes with lid on pan ; remove from fire and stand 
five minutes, keeping lid on pan. 

Jellied Cranberries 

Take four cups cranberries, two cups sugar, and one cup water. 
Wash cranberries, removing any that are imperfect. Put them 
into a porcelain-lined pan, sprinkle sugar over them, and pour 
water gently over. Cook slowly, and when they reach boiling 
point, cover few moments, then uncover and cook gently 
until tender. Pour into a wet mold. 

Cucumber Sauce 

1 cucumber 1 tablespoon cooked spinach 

2 tablespoons (1 oz.) butter sub- 1 cup (| pt.) white sauce 
stitute Salt and white pepper to taste 

2 tablespoons cream 

Peel cucumber and cut it into thin slices. Put these into a 
small saucepan with butter substitute and spinach, and stew 
slowly fifteen minutes, stirring frequently. Then rub as much 
as possible through a sieve and return to a clean saucepan. Add 
sauce, seasonings, and cream and stir until hot. 

Custard Sauce 

1 egg, beaten 1 pinch salt 

I cup (1 gill) milk ^ teaspoon vanilla or lemon 

1 tablespoon sugar extract 

Beat up egg, add milk, sugar, and salt, pour into a pitcher, 
stand in boiling water, and stir with a wooden spoon until it 
thickens ; then add flavoring, rub through a sieve, and use. 

Foamy Sauce 

1 cup (I pt.) milk ^ cup (i lb.) sugar 

2 egg whites, beaten 1 orange rind and strained juice 



SWEET AND SAVORY SAUCES 167 

Heat milk. Beat egg whites until stiff, beat in sugar, and 
continue beating until smooth; add milk, rind, and juice of 
orange, continue beating until foamy, then use with puddings. 

Another Method. Cream four tablespoons butter substitute 
with three fourths cup sugar in a saucepan, pour over them one 
half cup boiling water, stir until sugar is dissolved, remove from 
fire, and when cool fold in stiffly beaten whites of two eggs, 
strained juice of two oranges, and one tablespoon lemon juice. 
Beat until light and foamy. 

Fresh Berry Sauce 

I5 cups (f pt.) strawberries, 1 cup (§ lb.) sugar 

peaches, or apricots i cup (4 ozs.) butter substitute 

1 egg white, beaten 

When cooked puddings or boiled dumplings are used in hot 
weather, they can be given a summery touch by serving with a 
fresh berry sauce. These berry sauces are also good when 
poured over slices of sponge cake and topped with whipped 
and sweetened cream. 

Mash fruit. Beat butter substitute and sugar to a cream, 
add white of egg ; beat until very light, then stir in fruit, and 
serve immediately. 

Hard Sauce 

4 tablespoons (2 ozs.) butter | teaspoon vanilla extract 

^ cup (4 ozs.) sugar 1 tablespoon brandy or fruit juice 

Beat butter until creamy, add sugar, and beat until frothy. 
Flavor with vanilla and brandy or fruit juice or any other pre- 
ferred flavoring. Chill and serve, lightly sprinkled with 
powdered nutmeg. 

If liked, the stiffly beaten white of one egg may be added to 
the sauce. 

Lobster Sauce 

2 tablespoons (1 oz.) butter sub- | cup (1 gill) white stoek or hot 

stitute water 

4 drops onion juice 2 egg yolks 

I bay leaf Pounded lobster coral 

I teaspoon pepper 2 tablespoons chopped lobster 

^ lemon meat 



168 ECONOMICAL COOKERY 

Lobster sauce is delicious with any white-fleshed fish. Stir 
together one tablespoon of the butter substitute with onion, 
bay leaf, pepper, and strained lemon juice. Add stock or water 
and stir over hot water until butter melts. As soon as very hot, 
take from fire and stir a little of the mixture into beaten yolks, 
add rest of sauce and return to fire. Stir constantly five minutes, 
add remainder of butter, lobster meat, and one half pounded 
coral of a lobster. 

Marmalade Sauce 

1 cup (I pt.) boiling water 2 tablespoons cold water 

2 teaspoons cornstarch 1 tablespoon sugar or honey 

3 tablespoons marmalade 

Have boiling water in a small saucepan, add cornstarch 
moistened with cold water, stir over fire until it boils, then add 
sugar and marmalade, and use when very hot. 

Horse-radish Sauce 

4 tablespoons grated horse-radish | teaspoon pepper 

1 teaspoon salt 1 teaspoon mustard 

I teaspoon sugar 2 teaspoons vinegar 

4 tablespoons cream 

Mix horse-radish with vinegar, and let stand thirty minutes ; 
then stir in gradually the other ingredients, adding cream last. 



Italian Sauce 

2 tablespoons (1 oz.) butter sub- 1 onion, chopped 

stitute 1 bunch herbs 

2 tablespoons (^ oz.) flour 1 bay leaf 

2 tablespoons (i oz.) barley flour 2 button mushrooms, chopped 
1 cup (I pt.) white stock 2 tablespoons cream 

Salt and pepper 

Melt butter substitute, stir in flours and when smooth add 
stock and stir until boiling; then add onion, herbs, bay leaf, 
mushrooms, cream, salt and pepper to taste, and simmer slowly 
twenty minutes. Rub through a sieve and use. 



SWEET AND SAVOKY SAUCES 169 



Lemon Sauce 

1 cup (^ pt.) water 2 lemons 

2 tablespoons (^ oz.) cornstarch 2 tablespoons (1 oz.) sugar or 

honey- 
Pour water into a small saucepan, add grated rinds of lemons, 
and bring to boiling point. Mix cornstarch smoothly with 
strained juice of lemons, stir into the boiling water, then add 
sugar or honey, and let sauce simmer six minutes. Serve hot 
with puddings. 

Mint Sauce 

3 tablespoons chopped mint 1 tablespoon sugar 
^ cup (1 gill) vinegar 1 pinch salt 

Put mint into a tureen with sugar and salt and pour over 
vinegar, stirring it well. The sauce should be made two hours 
before it is wanted. If the vinegar is very acid, one third of 
water may be used to dilute it. 

Another Method. Drop one tablespoon olive oil on to three 
tablespoons freshly chopped mint, add one tablespoon sugar and 
one half cup vinegar. Serve with lamb. 

Molasses Sauce 

1 tablespoon flour I cup (1 gill) milk 

2 tablespoons molasses i cup (1 gill) water 

Mix flour with molasses in small saucepan, add milk and 
water, stir until sauce boils, and cook two minutes. This sauce 
goes well with a boiled pudding in which there is not much 
sugar. 

Another Method. Pour one cup water into a saucepan, add one 
tablespoon lemon juice and three tablespoons molasses or sirup. 
Bring to boiling point, boil five mmutes, and strain. A little 
ginger or other spice may be added if liked. 

Mustard Sauce 

1 tablespoon flour or cornstarch ^ cup (1 gill) milk 
I cup (1 gill) water 2 teaspoons thick-made mustard 

I teaspoon vinegar 



170 ECONOMICAL COOKERY 

Put flour into small saucepan, add gradually milk and water, 
and stir until boiling. Add mustard and vinegar, stir carefully, 
and beware of curdling. 

Another Method. Melt two tablespoons butter substitute 
in small saucepan, add one teaspoon each flour and dry mustard, 
and mix smooth. Pour in three fourths cup stock or water, stir 
until boiling, and cook three minutes. Add pinch of salt, two 
teaspoons vinegar, and one tablespoon cream. Serve hot with 
grilled fish. 

Piquante Sauce 

4 tablespoons vinegar 1 tablespoon chopped gherkin 

1 teaspoon chopped onion 1 cup (^ pt.) brown sauce 

1 tablespoon chopped capers 2 teaspoons chopped parsley 

Into small saucepan put vinegar, onion, capers, and gherkin 
and simmer until vinegar is reduced to half the quantity. Pour 
in brown sauce, bring to the boil, add more seasoning if necessary 
and parsley. Serve with boiled mutton, veal, calf's head, or 
any meat that is lacking in taste. 

Rose Sauce 

1 large red beet 1 lemon 

2 cups (1 pt.) water 2 cups (1 lb.) sugar or honey 

1 teaspoon rose extract 

Peel beet and cut into thin slices ; put it into saucepan with 
water and thinly pared rind of lemon. Simmer thirty minutes ; 
strain, return liquid to pan, add sugar and strained juice of 
half lemon. Cook five minutes and add rose extract. When 
cold, put it into small bottles and seal. This sauce keeps well 
and may be used with all kinds of sweet puddings and ice creams. 

Savory Jelly Sauce 

1 tumbler red currant jelly 1 tablespoon mushroom or to- 

1 teaspoon Worcestershire sauce mato catchup 
\ teaspoon salt \ teaspoon pepper 

Melt jelly in small saucepan, add sauce, catchup, and season- 
ings, and mix thoroughly. Serve hot with chops or other meats. 



SWEET AND SAVORY SAUCES 171 

Another Method. Melt one half tumbler wild grape jelly, add 
one half cup brown gravy or sauce, and season with catchup, 
salt, pepper, and red pepper. 

Sour Cream Sauce 

2 tablespoons (1 oz.) butter sub- 1 cup (^ pt.) sour cream 
stitute I teaspoon salt 

4 tablespoons (1 oz.) flour or I teaspoon pepper 

potato flour 

Melt butter substitute in small saucepan, smoothly stir in 
flour, pour in cream, stir imtil boiling, and cook three minutes ; 
add seasonings, and, if liked, a dash of vinegar, a suitable addition 
of lemon juice, chopped gherkins or capers, grated cheese or 
anything else preferred. 

This sauce is suitable for serving with fish or vegetables. 

Another Method. Bring one cup sour cream almost to boiling 
point, then add four tablespoons flour moistened with one half 
cup cold water, and stir until mixture cooks five minutes ; season 
to taste with salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg, take from fire, 
and stir in beaten yolk of one egg. This latter may be omitted 
if liked, while the nutmeg may always be replaced by vinegar, 
lemon juice, or whatever else may be deemed advisable. 

Sweet Melted Butter Sauce 

3 tablespoons (1| ozs.) butter sub- 2 cups (1 pt.) milk 
stitute 2 tablespoons (1 oz.) sugar 

4 tablespoons (1 oz.) flour or 1 teaspoon lemon juice 
potato flour 

Melt butter substitute in a small saucepan, add flour, and stir 
with wooden spoon imtil smooth. Then add milk and stir over 
fire until sauce thickens and boils eight minutes. Add sugar and 
lemon juice and strain before using. 

Thickened Gravy 

2 tablespoons (1 oz.) drippings 1 cup (| pt.) water or stock 
4 tablespoons (1 oz.) flour or 1 teaspoon salt 

cornstarch i teaspoon celery salt 

f teaspoon pepper 



172 ECONOMICAL COOKERY 

Pour away fat from roasting pan, leaving two tablespoons, 
add flour or cornstarch, and mix it over fire until smooth and 
brown ; next draw pan to side of fire and pour in water or stock, 
and stir over fire again until boiling. Simmer eight minutes, 
skim well, and add seasonings. Strain before using. This 
gravy is generally preferred for roast game, poultry, or rabbit. 

Clear Gravy 

For all simple roasts a clear unthickened gravy is the best. 
Pour away fat from pan and reserve it for future use. Add one 
half cup water and with an iron spoon rub down any glaze which 
adheres to side of pan. Boil five minutes, add salt and pepper 
to taste, and remove any grease from surface with white paper. 
Strain a little of gravy over joint, and pour remainder into sauce- 
boat. It is awkward for the carver if the dish is made too full. 
Serve hot. 

Brown Gravy 

Melt four tablespoons butter substitute in a saucepan, add one 
chopped onion, and fry until brown ; then add two tablespoons 
flour and one tablespoon soy bean flour and fry until nicely 
browned ; add salt and pepper to taste, one cupful boiling water, 
or stock, or water in which vegetables were boiled, stir and cook 
five minutes, and it is ready. Strain if desired. 

Tomato Gravy 

1 can or 4 tomatoes, sliced 1 teaspoon salt 

2 tablespoons (1 oz.) butter sub- § teaspoon pepper 
stitute 2 teaspoons flour 

1 slice onion 1 clove 

1 cup (I pt.) water 

Fry tomatoes in butter substitute with onion eight minutes, 
add seasonings, flour, clove, and water, boil fifteen minutes, rub 
through a sieve and use. 

For cooking purposes there is perhaps no vegetable which will 
lend itself to such a variety of treatment as the tomato. 



SWEET AND SAVORY SAUCES 173 

Tomato Sauce 

1 tablespoon (^ oz.) butter sub- 1 bunch herbs 
stitute 3 large tomatoes or ^ can to- 

1 tablespoon chopped ham or matoes 

bacon 1 tablespoon cornstarch 

^ small onion, chopped 2 cups (1 pt.) stock or water 

2 teaspoons chopped parsley 1 teaspoon salt 

^ teaspoon white pepper 

Melt butter substitute, add ham and onion, and fry a few 
minutes; now add parsley, herbs, tomatoes, cornstarch 
moistened with water, and seasonings. Simmer fifteen minutes, 
strain and use. If fresh tomatoes are used, they must be cut 
in, small pieces. 

White Sauce 

2 tablespoons (1 oz.) butter sub- 1| cups (3 gills) milk 

stitute 1 teaspoon salt 

4 tablespoons (1 oz.) flour or ^ teaspoon pepper 
cornstarch 

Melt butter substitute in a saucepan, add flour, and mix with 
a wooden spoon until perfectly smooth. Cook for a few minutes 
over the fire but take care that it does not brown, then draw 
pan to one side, add milk and seasonings, and return to fire; 
stir constantly until boiling and cook five minutes longer. 

If liked, two tablespoons cream and one teaspoon lemon juice 
may be added just before using. 

To make a sweet sauce, omit seasonings and add one table- 
spoon sugar or honey and one half teaspoon of vanilla or lemon 
extract, or a little powdered nutmeg or ginger. 



CHAPTER XV 
ICE CREAMS AND ICES 

'' A thousand different shapes it bears, 
Comely in thousand shapes appears." 

Ice cream is one of the simplest dishes to prepare, providing 
always that one has a good freezer. Another advantage ice 
cream has over a large number of desserts is that it is very easily 
digested, and with few exceptions the most delicate invalid 
can partake of it with impunity. Ice cream is not a luxury. It 
costs no more to make than the everyday puddings and pies 
and is much more healthful. 

An infinite variety of desserts can be easily made with a 
freezer. Almost anything agreeable to the taste and adapted 
for a drink or a dessert, if frozen, has an added delicacy. Ices, 
sherbets, and frapp^s are very refreshing, inexpensive, and easily 
prepared. 

A good general rule for water ices is to boil together two cups 
sugar or honey and one and one half pints water five minutes, 
then stand aside to cool. When cold, fruit juice may be added 
in the proportion of a pint of the juice to above of sugar, or 
honey, and water. 

A water ice is a fruit juice sweetened, diluted with water, and 
frozen. One measure of salt to three of ice. Be sure to pound 
the ice very fine. 

A sherbet is a water ice to which is added a small quantity of 
dissolved gelatine or stiffly beaten egg whites. One measure 
of salt to three of ice. 

AfrappS is a water ice frozen to the consistency of mush. Use 
equal parts of salt and ice. 

174 




MAKIN(r TloUANIE fc>Ai;cL, 7 '(((/S 170. 




^Making Molasses Sauce. Page 169. 




Apple Ice Cream. Page 175. 




-^" 



<k 




;. 


j_ ■ 


..- — 


: '- ~ .z ^---'--^^r-: t-^'-- 












Peach Ice Ckeam. Page 180. 




Maplk Nut Ice Cream. Paqe 179. 




KOLLIXG OUT Pastkv. J''i-je lb 



ICE CREAMS AND ICES 175 

A punch is a water ice to which is added spirit and spices. One 
measure of salt to three of ice. 

A sherbet, strictly speaking, is frozen punch, though the name 
is often given to a water ice where several kinds of fruit are 
used. One measure of salt to three of ice. For ice cream, one 
measure of salt to three of ice. For a mousse equal parts of salt 
and ice. Rock salt should be used in all cases. 

If you wish to mold ices, have mold ready when you remove 
dasher from freezer can. Rinse mold in cold water, fill quickly 
with mixture, filling every part of mold and pressing down well 
with a wooden spoon. Lay piece of waxed paper over mixture, 
large enough to project beyond edges when lid is on, then place 
mold in ice and salt. Four parts of ice to one part of salt. 
Cover well, and let ripen for two hours or more. 

The following is a novel way of serving ice cream : Place a 
small tin mold full of cold water to freeze, by placing in a pan 
of cracked ice and salt, so that the cold approaches from the 
sides and bottom. Then, when a thin frozen shell is formed, the 
mold is removed, and a perfect glass of ice remains, to be filled 
with ice cream or fruit ices. 

Apple Ice Cream 

2 pounds apples 1 lemon 
1 cup (^ pt.) water 1 orange 

1 inch cinnamon stick 2 cups (1 pt.) cream or evapo- 

I cup (I lb.) sugar or honey rated milk 

2 cups (1 pt.) custard 

Core, peel, and cut up apples and put them into saucepan with 
water, ciimamon, sugar, grated rinds and juice of orange and 
lemon. Cool until perfectly soft, rub through a sieve, and when 
cool, add cream and custard. Freeze and serve in dainty glasses. 

Brown Bread Ice Cream 

II cups (5 ozs.) dried brown I teaspoon salt 

bread crumbs f cup (6 ozs.) sugar or honey 

3 cups (1| pts.) evaporated milk ^ teaspoon lemon extract 
3 cups (1| pts.) water 1 teaspoon vanilla extract 

Soak bread criunbs in milk and water twenty minutes, then 
rub through a sieve, add salt, sugar, and extracts, and freeze. 



176 ECONOMICAL COOKERY 



Cafe Frappe 

4 cups (1 qt.) strong black coffee 2 cups (1 pt.) double cream or 

1 cup (I lb.) sugar or honey whipped evaporated milk 

1 teaspoon vanilla extract 

Strain and cool coffee and add whipped cream, sugar, and 
vanilla. Turn into a freezer, pack in ice and salt, and let 
ripen two hours. Serve in tall glasses with lady fingers. If 
liked, whipped and sweetened cream may be piled on top of 
each glass. 

Coffee Mousse 

2 eggs 4 cups (1 qt.) cream whipped, or 
^ cup (i lb.) sugar or honey evaporated milk whipped 

1 cup (I pt.) strong coffee 1 teaspoon vanilla extract 

Beat eggs and sugar or honey until thick, put them with coffee 
into a double boiler, and cook until mixture thickens. When 
cold, add cream and extract. Pack in mold and allow to ripen 
four hours. 

Chocolate Ice Cream 

1^ squares (1^ ozs.) chocolate, 1 cup (^ pt.) water 

unsweetened 4 cups (1 qt.) cream or evapo- 

1 cup (^ lb.) sugar or honey rated milk 

1 pinch salt 2 teaspoons vanilla extract 

Put chocolate into upper pan of a double boiler over hot water, 
add water, and stir until mixture is smooth. Remove from fire, 
and add cream, sugar, salt, and vanilla. Dissolve and freeze, 
using three parts crushed ice to one of rock salt. Serve in dainty 
glasses with a spoonful of whipped and sweetened cream on top. 

Cereal Ice Cream 

2 cups (1 lb.) sugar or honey 4 cups (2 pts.) milk, lukewarm 
2 eggs, beaten 1 teaspoon lemon extract 

2 cups (1 pt.) cooked cereal ^ teaspoon powdered nutmeg 

Beat sugar and eggs until light, add cereal and milk, strain and 
cool, then add extracts. Freeze and serve in dainty ice-cream 
cups. 



ICE CREAMS AND ICES 177 



Cranberry Frappe 

4 cups (1 qt.) cranberries 1| cups (f pt.) whipped and 

i teaspoon baking soda sweetened cream 

1| cups (12 ozs.) sugar or honey 1 cup (| lb.) finely chopped nut 

2 egg whites, beaten meats 

Cook cranberries in just sufficient water to prevent burning. 
Crush fruit, and when quite tender take from the fire and stir 
in soda and sugar. Cook until sugar is dissolved, then strain 
into a bowl. When cold add whites of eggs and freeze to the 
consistency of a soft snow. Then mix in cream and nut meats 
and continue to freeze until smooth and firm. Allow to ripen 
one hour. Serve in sherbet glasses. 



Frozen Banana Custard 

4 bananas 2 eggs, beaten 

2 teaspoons powdered gelatine 1 cup (^ pt.) whipped cream or 
4 tablespoons sugar evaporated milk 

3 tablespoons boihng water 1 teaspoon lemon extract 
3 cups (1| pts.) milk Nut meats 

Put gelatine into a saucepan, add eggs, water, sugar, and milk, 
stir until they thicken, but do not allow to boil, then cool. 
Add bananas rubbed through a sieve, cream, and extract. 
Freeze and serve in glasses, with a nut meat on top of each 
portion. 

Frozen Rice Pudding 

^ cup a lb.) rice 1 cup (| pt.) cream 

2 cups (1 pt.) milk 1 teaspoon lemon extract 

1 cup (3 ozs.) brown sugar 1 teaspoon vaniUa extract 

2 eggs, beaten Stewed fruit 

Wash rice and cook in boiling salted water fifteen minutes, 
drain and put in double boiler with milk and sugar, cook until 
rice has absorbed milk. Add cream, eggs, and extracts and 
cook for a few minutes without allowing it to boil. When 
cold, freeze and allow to ripen one hour. Serve with stewed 
fruit. 



178 ECONOMICAL COOKERY 



Fruit Sherbet 

3 lemons 2 cups (1 lb.) sugar or honey 

1 orange 4 cups (1 qt.) water 

^ cup (1 gill) shredded pineapple 1 egg white 

Bring sugar and water to boiling point with several thin 
pieces of lemon and orange rinds and boil ten minutes; cool 
and add strained lemon and orange juice, and pineapple. When 
almost frozen, add egg white stiffly beaten. 



Grape Juice Water Ice 

1 tablespoon powdered gelatine 2 cups (1 lb.) sugar or honey 

1 cup (^ pt.) hot water 2 cups (1 pt.) grape or currant 

2 cups (1 pt.) cold water juice 

1 lemon 

Dissolve gelatine with hot water, add cold water, sugar, grape 
or currant juice, and strained lemon juice. Freeze and serve 
with cake or sandwiches. 

Another MetJiocl. Boil one cup water and one half cup sugar 
five minutes, remove from fire and beat until cold, add stiffly 
beaten whites of two eggs, grated rind one orange, one fourth 
cup strained orange juice, and one tablespoon lemon juice 
and freeze. 

Lemon Ice Cream 

3 lemons 1 can condensed milk 

1 orange 2 cups (1 pt.) water 

2 tablespoons cornstarch 

Grate rinds from lemons and orange, strain juices into milk, 
and add one cup of the water. Dissolve cornstarch with remain- 
ing water and pour into lemon mixture, cook eight minutes, and 
allow to become cold. Freeze and serve in glasses. 

Maple Mousse 

I cup (1| gills) maple sirup 2 eggs, separated 

1 cup (I pt.) double cream 



ICE CREAMS AND ICES 179 

Reduce maple sirup to one half cup by boiling and cool 
slightly. Pour over beaten yolks of eggs, beating constantly. 
Beat up cream and whites of eggs, bind them with custard, and 
pour into wet mold. Cover and bury in ice and salt five hours. 

Sufficient for one quart. 

Maple Nut Ice Cream 

1 cup (3 ozs.) brown sugar 1 tablespoon cold water 

2 eggs, separated 3 cups (1§ pts.) cream or whipped 
8 tablespoons maple sirup evaporated milk 

f teaspoon vanilla extract 8 cups (2 qts.) milk 

1 junket tablet 1 cup (4 ozs.) chopped nut meats 

Beat up yolk of eggs, add whites beaten to a stiff froth, cream, 
milk, sugar, maple sirup, vanilla, and tablet dissolved in water. 
Put in a warm place until junket thickens mixture, then turn 
into freezer, and when slightly frozen add the nut meats. Freeze 
and let ripen one hour. 

Milk Sherbet 

6 cups (3 pts.) milk 2| cups (18 ozs.) sugar or honey 

5 lemons 

Strain lemon juice on to sugar and freeze ten minutes, add 
milk, and finish freezing. Milk will curdle if added to juice 
and sugar before it is ice-cold. Serve in sherbet glasses decorated 
with pieces of preserved cherries or preserved ginger. 

Orange Ice Cream 

2 eggs, separated 4 oranges 

I cup (4 ozs.) sugar 1 cup (| pt.) cream 

Beat up egg yolks, add sugar and strained orange juice, cook 
over hot water until thick; remove, and when cool, fold in 
stiffly beaten whites of eggs, and cream whipped. Freeze. 

Orange Parfait 

1 cup (^ lb.) sugar or honey 2 cups (1 pt.) cream, whipped 

1 cup (^ pt.) water 1 cup (| pt.) strained orange 

2 egg whites, beaten juice 

Orange sections 



180 ECONOMICAL COOKERY 

Boil sugar and water until it threads, or at 218° F. on candy 
thermometer. Pour on to stiffly beaten egg whites, fold in cream, 
and add orange juice. Turn into mold, cover and pack in 
crushed ice and salt, and allow to stand four hours. Remove 
from mold and decorate with orange sections. 

Or, to four cups whipped cream, add one cup sugar dissolved in 
one cup strained orange juice. Fill into mold, cover, and pack in 
ice and salt two and one half hours. 

Oswego Ice Cream 

1 cup (^ pt.) milk 2 cups (1 pt.) double cream, 
1 teaspoon arrowroot whipped 

1 tablespoon cream ^ teaspoon almond extract 

f cup (6 ozs.) sugar or honey ^ teaspoon rose extract 

Scald milk, add arrowroot dissolved in tablespoon of cream, 
cook ten minutes, add sugar. Stir well and let cool, fold in 
whipped cream, add extracts, and freeze. 

Another way to serve ice cream is as follows: Any color or 
flavor of ice cream can be served in this manner. Form cream 
into balls and then roll in chopped cocoanut until well covered. 
Serve on paper doilies on plates, with a pretty blossom laid by 
each snowball for contrast. 

Peach Ice Cream 

1 can peaches 2 eggs, beaten 

1 cup (^ pt.) milk J teaspoon salt 

2 cup (i lb.) sugar 1 teaspoon lemon juice 

1 cup (^ pt.) whipped cream 

Rub enough of the peaches through a sieve to make two cups. 
Make a custard with milk, sugar, eggs, and salt. When cool, 
add peaches, lemon juice, and cream. Freeze and serve in ice- 
cream cups with one peach half on top of each portion. 



Peppermint Stick Ice Cream 

8 cups (2 qts.) cream or evapo- 1 pound red striped peppermint 
rated milk stick candy 

Cakes or wafers 



ICE CREAMS AND ICES 181 

Heat cream in a double boiler and add to it peppermint candy 
that has been thoroughly crushed. Stir well, let cool, and then 
freeze. Serve with cakes or wafers. Half quantities may be 
used. 

Plum Ice Cream 

2 cups (1 pt.) ripe plums 8 tablespoons sugar or honey 

1 cup (^ pt.) water ^ cup (f pt.) grape or fruit juice 

2 cups (1 pt.) whipped cream 

Put fruit, water, and sugar into a saucepan and cook until 
soft, rub through a sieve, add grape or fruit juice, and cream. 
Freeze and pack in a mold, cover tightly, and pack in ice and 
salt three hours. Unmold on to a pretty platter and cut into 
slices for serving. 

Pineapple Sherbet 

2 cups (1 lb.) sugar or honey 2 cups (1 pt.) boiling water 

1 lemon 2 cups (1 pt.) grated canned pine- 

2 cups (1 pt.) white grape juice or apple 

any other fruit juice 2 egg whites, stiffly beaten 

Into a saucepan put sugar, water, strained lemon juice, and 
pineapple, bring to boiling point, and boil five minutes. Let 
cool, then add fruit juice and freeze in the usual way. When 
mixture begins to freeze, add eggs and finish freezing. This is 
one of the finest of frozen dainties. 

Raspberry Junket Ice Cream 

4 cups (1 qt.) lukewarm milk, 2 teaspoons raspberry extract 

100° F. 1 cup (I pt.) whipped cream 

1 cup (I lb.) sugar i teaspoon salt 

1 junket tablet 1 box ripe raspberries 

1 tablespoon cold water 6 tablespoons powdered sugar 

Crush junket tablet with cold water. Mix milk, sugar, salt, 
extract, and cream, add junket tablet, and allow to cool. 
Freeze. Mold if desired. Garnish with raspberries mixed 
with powdered sugar. Strawberries may be used in the same 
way. 



182 ECONOMICAL COOKERY 

Strawberry Sherbet 

8 cups (2 qts.) strawberries 2 cups (1 pt.) cream 

3 cups (If lbs.) sugar or honey 2 egg whites, beaten 

6 cups (3 pts.) water Few drops red color 

Wash and mash strawberries with sugar and let stand one 
hour. Rub through a sieve, add water and cream, and freeze 
until mushy; then add eggs and color and finish freezing. 
Serve in sherbet glasses. 

Raspberries may be used in the same way. 

Tea Frappe 

1 cup i^lh.) sugar 3 oranges 

2 cups (1 pt.) water, cold 1 cup (f pt.) grated pineapple 
2 lemons 2 cups (1 pt.) boiling water 

4 teaspoons tea 

Boil cold water and sugar eight minutes, add grated rinds and 
strained juices of lemons and oranges, add pineapple. Pour 
boiling water over tea and allow to infuse five minutes ; cool 
and mix with fruit, strain and freeze to consistency of sherbet. 

Vanilla Ice Cream 

2 eggs, separated 1 cup (f pt.) cream 

4 cups (1 qt.) milk 1 teaspoon vanilla extract 

1 cup (I lb.) sugar or honey | teaspoon rose extract 

Beat up egg yolks, add milk and sugar, stir in whites stiffly 
beaten, add cream and extracts. Freeze and serve. 

Half quantities may be used. The rose extract may be 
omitted. 

Vanilla Ice Cream Sandwiches 

Bake sponge cakes in square pans the size of ice-cream bricks. 
Cut two slices of cake and place slice of ice cream between. 
Cut diagonally in two pieces and serve. If one half pint of 
oatmeal be added to each quart of vanilla ice cream, beaten 
thoroughly in, the mixture will taste almost exactly like macaroon 
ice cream. 



CHAPTER XVi 
PASTRIES, PIES AND TARTLETS 

" Carved like an apple tart." 

Pastry is a combination of fat and flour, and may be short, 
flaky, or puff pastry, according to the materials used and the 
method by which they are combined. The fat used is known by 
the general name of shortening. Butter and butter substitutes 
are sometimes used in combination to reduce expense. All 
shortenings should be as free as possible from water and from 
salt, and very sweet and fresh. The proportion of fat to flour 
varies according to the richness required, from less than half to 
nearly, and in the case of rich puff paste to quite, equal weights. 
Where the shortening is less than half the weight of flour, a small 
quantity of baking powder is used to give crispness and shortness 
to the crust, but pastry in which it is used should be eaten while 
quite fresh. 

Good pastry is the pride of a good cook, but though its success 
depends to a great extent on skill and manipulation, it depends 
even more on the using of the right proportions in making and 
the correct heat in cooking; these points once mastered, the 
novice has gone a long way towards succeeding in the art of 
making pastry. 

The principles underlying the making of light pastry are the 
introduction of cold air during the making, and the expansion of 
the air so introduced by the heat of the oven while the pastry is 
cooking. 

The cook should aim to make the pastry light and short, or 
light and flaky according to the character of the pastry made. 

Pastry requires a hot oven and a cool, light hand in the making. 
Baked pastry should be mixed as dry as possible ; boiled pastry 

183 



184 ECONOMICAL COOKERY 

rather moist. The quantity of liquid necessary to mix the 
pastry varies according to the richness of the crust, plain pastry 
requiring more liquid than a crust rich with a larger proportion 
of fat. 

In making pastry, the colder the hands of the maker, the water, 
and the room, the better. A marble slab is the best thing on 
which to make it : otherwise a hard board which is kept for pastry 
only should be used. 

Use iced water for mixing, when possible. Pastry will be 
flakier if placed in the ice box for a short time before it is finally 
rolled out for use. The flour should be very dry and should be 
sifted w4th a little salt. Never knead pastry. Use the hands 
as little as possible. Mix with a knife unless otherwise specified. 

The excellency of pastry depends very much upon its being 
properly baked. The best pastry that ever was mixed would be 
spoilt if the oven were not exactly right. If an oven is not hot 
enough, the pastry will shrink away from the edges of the dish 
and will be heavy. If the oven is too hot, the pastry will be 
burnt or will stiffen without rising. 

Bake pastry in a moderate or quick oven. A good way to test 
the oven is to have in readiness some pieces of white kitchen 
paper and try the oven by putting in a piece of this paper every 
six minutes or so. If the oven is too hot, the paper will blacken 
or blaze up immediately ; if it turns a deep brown, the oven is 
ready for patties, individual mince pies, etc. If it turns a cigar- 
brown, tartlets, vol-au-vent, etc., may be put in; if it simply 
becomes a light brown, the oven is fit for bread, pound cake, or 
meat pie ; if it turns a very pale yellow, or hardly colors at all, it 
is a slow oven just fit for sponge cakes, etc., which require but 
little color and light baking. One of the surest ways of testing 
the heat of the oven is to bake a small piece of pastry before put- 
ting the pie or tartlet into it. Another way is to sprinkle a little 
flour upon the oven shelf. If it turns a bright brown in a few 
seconds, the oven is hot enough. If it turns black, the oven is 
too hot ; if it remains pale in color, the oven is too slow. 

The heat of the oven may be tested with a thermometer. For 
puff pastry the oven should register about 340° F. to begin with, 
and when the pastry is well risen the heat may be reduced to 



PASTRIES, PIES AND TARTLETS 185 

about 325° F. For meat pies about 300^ F. will be hot enough, 
and for the plainer kinds of pastry the temperature may be still 
a little lower. 

Puff pastry, when well made, is light and tender, and so delicate 
that it cannot be touched without crumblmg or crushing. It 
should be thoroughly baked, and is therefore suitable for patties, 
the upper crust of pies, and tartlets. Pastry that is light, dry 
and flaky is more easily separated by the gastric fluids and is 
more digestible than that which is heavy. 

Pastry which is to be boiled is lighter when made with suet 
than it is when butter or butter substitutes are used. Beef suet 
is generally used for this purpose, but mutton suet is more whole- 
some and can be chopped the more easily of the two. Measure 
four cups of flour, and four, six, eight, or ten ounces of suet may 
be used, according to the degree of richness required. The suet 
should be skmned, and the fibers and suiews should be removed ; 
it should then be chopped imtil it is quite fine and rubbed into the 
flour ; water or buttermilk should be added gradually to make a 
very stiff paste. The pastry should be rolled out once ; it is then 
ready for use. The water used in mixing pastry should be added 
gradually and mixed thoroughly. If a large quantity is poured 
in at once the pastry may be made over moist, and then an undue 
proportion of flour will have to be added before the pastry can be 
rolled. It should be remembered that it is scarcely possible to 
give the exact measure of water that will be needed in making 
pastry, because some flours absorb more moisture than others. 
An experienced cook can tell in a moment by touching the pastry 
whether or not it is of the right consistency. All one can say to 
the inexperienced cook is that pastry should be smooth and stiff, 
but not too stiff. When properly mixed, the dough can be 
gathered into a ball, and used to wipe the mixing bowl out, like 
a cloth. 

Never allow pastry to stick to the board, but lift it occasionally 
on the rolling pin and dust a very little flour miderneath. 

Avoid as much as possible rolling dry flour into the pastry, as 
it will give it a pasty and white appearance. 

Pastry is sometimes glazed before being put into the oven. 
When a rich deep color is wanted on a pie, brush the pastry over 



186 ECONOMICAL COOKERY 

with the beaten yolk of egg mixed with a little cold water. For 
a lighter brown use a whole egg beaten ; or egg and milk, or milk 
alone, may be used on the plainer kinds of pastry. Sweet 
pastry is generally glazed with slightly beaten white of egg and 
sugar, or with milk or water and sugar. 

The digestibility of pies has been called into question, but when 
properly made pies are as easily digested as anything else. 

Choux Pastry 

1 cup (4 ozs.) flour 2 tablespoons (1 oz.) sugar 

1 cup (i pt.) water 1 pinch salt 

4 tablespoons (2 ozs.) butter 2 large eggs 

^ teaspoon vanilla extract 

Sift flour and put it into a cool part of oven to dry. Pour 
water into saucepan, add butter, sugar, and salt, and bring mix- 
ture to the boil, but do not let it reduce in quantity. Add flour 
quickly, and stir over the fire with a wooden spoon until the 
paste is compact, and does not adhere to the sides of the saucepan. 
This is called a " panada." Take the pan from the fire, and add 
eggs, one at a time, beating each one in thoroughly. Keep the 
paste at a medium thickness, not too soft, yet not too stiff, and 
using only a third large egg if necessary. If the paste is too stiff, 
it will not rise properly ; and if too soft, it will spread in the oven 
and lose its shape. Add flavoring and cool before using. This 
pastry is suitable for Eclairs, cream puffs, and various fritters and 
cakes. 

To Make Cream Puffs. Put mixture into forcing bag with a 
tube and force on to a floured baking tin in small rounds, brush 
over with milk, and bake in hot oven thirty minutes. When 
cold split them open on one side and fill them with whipped, 
sweetened, and flavored cream. Sprinkle powdered sugar on 
top and serve. 

Another Method. Grease well some tartlet or gem pans that are 
rather deep. Drop a tablespoon of choux pastry into each, and 
bake in hot oven thirty minutes. When cold, make a slit in each 
and fill with whipped cream, thick custard, or preserves. 

Eclairs are made in the same way, but baked in Eclair- 
shaped tins. 



PASTRIES, PIES AND TARTLETS 187 



Cornstarch Pastry 

1 cup (2 ozs.) butter Pinch salt 

i cup (2 ozs.) butter substitute 1| cups (5 ozs.) flour 

2 tablespoons (1 oz.) sugar 1 cup (6 ozs.) cornstarch 
1 teaspoon baking powder 1 egg yolk 

Milk 

Mix butter, butter substitute, sugar, baking powder, and salt, 
and cut and rub them into flour and cornstarch sifted together. 
Add beaten yolk of egg and sufficient milk to mix to stiff paste. 
Roll out and use. This pastry is suitable for lining dishes and 
for pies and tartlets. 

Cream Pastry 

4 cups (1 lb.) flour or potato flour 1 tablespoon (| oz.) sugar 
^ cup (4 ozs.) butter or lard ^ teaspoon salt 

1 cup (^ pt.) cream 

Sift flour into a bowl, cut in shortening with a knife, then rub 
it in lightly with tips of the fingers ; add sugar, salt, and mix to 
a stiff paste with cream. Chill and use for pies, tartlets, and 
fancy cakes. 

Everyday Puff Pastry 

2 cups (i lb.) flour 1 teaspoon lemon juice 

i teaspoon salt Cold water 

I cup (6 ozs.) butter substitute 

Into a bowl sift flour and salt and make a well in the center. 
Pour lemon juice mixed with a little water into this, and mix in 
sufficient water to make a stiff dough. Roll the pastry on a 
floured board lightly into a strip a little over one fourth of an 
inch thick. Place the shortening in a lump about halfway down 
on it, and fold over the pastry in three. Press the edges together, 
and turn it so that the rough edges are towards the right. Roll 
it out lightly, and again fold in three ; do this once more, and set 
aside in a cold place twenty minutes. Repeat the same process 
until it has been rolled twice more. After standing in a cool 
place or in the refrigerator twenty minutes, it is then ready for 
use. 



188 ECONOMICAL COOKERY 

Flaky Pastry 

2 5 cups (10 ozs.) flour 1 teaspoon lemon juice 

1 cup (8 ozs.) butter substitute 1 egg white, beaten 

I teaspoon salt Cold water 

Let butter substitute lie in cold water some time before using 
it. Sift flour and salt into a bowl, and add lemon juice. Lift 
butter substitute out of the water, and squeeze it dry in a clean 
floured cloth. Divide it into four equal pieces. Take one of 
these pieces and rub it into flour with tips of the fingers until free 
from lumps. Then add white of egg and sufficient cold water to 
form all into one lump. Mix as lightly as possible, and turn out 
on to floured board. Roll out into a long narrow strip about 
one fourth inch in thickness. Take one of the remaining por- 
tions of shortening, and with the point of a knife place it on in 
small pieces all over the pastry, leaving an inch margin without 
shortening around edges. Now flour the surface lightly and 
fold paste in three. Turn pastry half round, bringing edges to 
right-hand side. Press down the folds quickly with the rolling 
pin, roll out pastry again into narrow strip, and proceed as before 
until remaining portions of shortening have been used. The 
last time roll out pastry to desired thickness, and if it requires 
widening, turn it across the board and roll across. 

This pastry keeps well in cold weather if wrapped in greased 
paper or cheesecloth. It is suitable for pies, tartlets, and 
various fancy dishes. 

Plain Pastry 

1 cup (^ lb.) flour 1 tablespoon (^ oz.) butter 

^1 pinch salt 1 tablespoon (^ oz.) lard 

Ice water 

Sift flour and salt into a bowl, add shortening and rub in with 
tips of fingers until well mixed. Make a hole in the center, pour 
in two tablespoons of ice water, and with a broad knife work until 
mixed. Roll cut pastry on floured board and line a greased deep 
pie plate with it. 

If the crust is to be baked first, perforate the bottom and sides 
to prevent puffing. 



PASTRIES, PIES AND TARTLETS 189 

Potato Pastry 
Cold potatoes Flour 

Drippings 

Take equal parts potatoes and flour and one half the same 
quantity of drippings. Rub potatoes thi'ough a sieve, mix with 
flour, cut and rub in fat, and make into stiff paste with a very 
little water. Use for meat pies, or fruit tarts. 

This is a very wholesome pastry. 

Another Method. Into a bowl sift two cups self-rising flour 
and one half teaspoon salt, cut and rub in one half cup butter 
substitute, then add one cup cold mashed potatoes and sufficient 
milk to make a stiff paste. Roll out and use. 

Rich Short Crust Pastry 

2 cups (Hb.) flour 1 teaspoon sugar 

f cup (6 ozs.) butter substitute 1 egg yolk 

1 teaspoon salt Cold water 

Sift flour into a bowl, cut in shortening with a knife, and rub 
it in lightly with finger tips ; add salt and sugar. 

Beat up yolk of egg with two tablespoonfuls of water and mix 
gradually with flour mixture. The paste should be stiff. It 
may be necessary to add a little more water. 

This pastry is suitable for fruit pies, tartlets, puffs, and other 
sweet dishes. It is one of the most wholesome kinds of pastry. 

Short Pastry 

2 cups (^ lb.) flour 1 teaspoon baking powder 
I cup (4 ozs.) butter substitute I teaspoon salt 

1 teaspoon sugar Cold water 

Sift flour into a bowl, and cut and rub in shortening till mix- 
ture looks like fine bread crumbs. Now add sugar, baking 
powder, and salt, and make a well in the center. Pour a very 
little water — not more than a tablespoonful — into this, and 
with the blade of a broad knife stir thoroughly into the flour. 
The stiff er you keep this paste the better, so add just sufficient 
more water to make a stiff paste. Make smooth on a floured 
baking board and roll it out, using it for pies, tartlets, and 
puddings. 



190 ECONOMICAL COOKERY 

Suet Pastry 

1 cup (4 ozs.) flour 1 teaspoon baking powder 

1 cup (4 ozs.) whole wheat flour | teaspoon salt 

1 cup (4 ozs.) suet, shredded Cold water 

Sift flours into a bowl, add suet, baking powder, and salt, and 
mix thoroughly together, rubbing the ingredients lightly to- 
gether with tips of the fingers. Add sufficient water to make a 
stiflSsh dough, and turn out on floured board, leaving the bowl 
clean. Knead lightly until free from cracks, then roll out to 
thickness required. A larger proportion of suet may be used if 
the pastry is desired richer. Buttermilk or sweet milk can be 
used instead of water for mixing. Half the quantity of flour 
may be omitted and one half cup of bread crumbs used in its 
place. 

This pastry is suitable for dumplings, suet puddings, roly-poly 
pudding, fruit and meat puddings. 

Whole Wheat Puff Paste 

4 cups (1 lb.) whole wheat flour 1 small lemon 

1 egg yolk Iced water 

2 cups (1 lb.) butter or butter substitute 

Make a bay in center of flour, add egg, mixed with strained 
lemon juice ; mix with the hand to a flexible paste, using a little 
water. Knead lightly until the paste is smooth and elastic and 
set it in a cold place. Roll out this paste until it forms an ob- 
long about twice the size of the butter. Squeeze all moisture out 
of butter by wringing it in a clean cloth; bring it to the same 
consistency as pastry, upon w^hich place it upon one end. Fold 
pastry over so as to hide butter, roll out till one fourth inch thick 
and about two feet long. Fold the pastry in three, press edges 
together, and lay pastry in a cool place fifteen minutes. This is 
called giving the pastry one " turn ", and seven of these is the 
number usually required for puff pastry. The next time the 
pastry is rolled, place it with the open ends towards you. Now 
give it two " turns " and place it in the refrigerator fifteen 
minutes. Repeat this until the pastry has had seven rolls in all, 
one turn the first time, and after that, two each time with an 



PASTRIES, PIES AND TARTLETS 191 

interval between. The idea in puff pastry is to have the shorten- 
ing and the paste separate, so that the pastry will form a kind of 
sandwich, in which very thin, light layers of paste shall be 
separated from each other by layers of fat, and the lighter and 
thinner these layers can be made, the better the puff paste is. It 
is for the purpose of keeping the pastry films perfect and separate 
that the pastry is cooled between the " turns." If the paste 
were to be sticky and the butter hot, the films could not be kept 
distinct; therefore, between the rollings or turns, puff paste is 
put in the ice box or in a cool place that the layers may become 
firm and not mix together in a mass. 

Each time the pastry is folded over, a small amount of air is 
inclosed and retained, if the edges are evenly folded and placed 
together. These bubbles of air may be seen when the paste is 
rolled out, and care must be taken not to break the blisters thus 
formed. The more air inclosed, the lighter and puffier the 
pastry will be, as the air expands with the heat and sends up the 
layers. When rolling, keep the pressure of the two hands as 
equal as possible. After the pastry has received its last roll, it 
should be placed in the refrigerator for two or three hours before 
using it, then rolled to the thickness required. This pastry will 
keep for several days in cold weather, if wrapped in a piece of 
cheesecloth or a piece of waxed paper. 

If very salt butter has to be used, wash it first by kneading it 
in ice water. 

A very hot oven is required for puff pastry. If too slow, the 
fat will ooze out, and the pastry spread ; if too hot, it will burn 
before it has risen. 

Banbury Tartlets 

4 tablespoons (2 ozs.) butter sub- 1 cup (6 ozs.) Sultana raisins 

stitute 1 lemon 

I cup (4 ozs.) sugar ^ teaspoon powdered nutmeg 

1 cup (i lb.) currants 1 cup (4 ozs.) cake crumbs 

Pastry 

Cream butter substitute and sugar, add fruits, grated rind, 
and strained juice of lemon, nutmeg, and cake crumbs ; mix well 
and chill. Roll out some pastry to about one fourth inch thick, 



192 ECONOMICAL COOKERY 

cut out with oval cutter four inches in length and three inches 
wide. Place a tablespoon of the mixture in the center of each 
piece of paste, bring edges together to center, press together and 
flatten ends to about one half inch thick. Sprinkle with sugar, 
lay on a baking tin, and bake in moderate oven thirty minutes. 
Sufficient for six persons. 

Cherry Tartlets 

1 cup (I pt.) ripe cherries, stoned ^ cup (I lb.) sugar or honey 

1 teaspoon lemon extract I cup (| gill) water 

Pastry 

Line twelve tartlet tins with pastry, and bake them in a hot 
oven until the pastry is just set. Before bakmg line them with 
a little piece of white paper and fill up with rice or small dried 
beans to prevent the pastry losing its shape during the baking. 
Both beans and rice used in this way v/ill serve over and over 
again for the same purpose. When tartlets arc ready, remove 
filling, and if the pastry underneath seems soft, return them to 
the oven for a few minutes to dry. 

Stone the cherries. Put lemon extract, sugar, and water into 
a saucepan, and boil them for eight minutes, pour this sirup over 
fruit, and stand in a warm place thirty minutes. Then lift out 
fruit carefully, place it in ready cooked tartlet cases, and pour 
over it three teaspoons of the sirup. Serve either hot or cold. 

Strawberries or raspberries may be used in the same way. 

Chocolate Pie 

4 tablespoons (2 ozs.) butter sub- 1 tablespoon cornstarch 

stitute 3 squares (3 ozs.) chocolate, 

1 cup (2 ozs.) sugar grated 

2 eggs, separated I cup (| gill) milk 

1 cup (4 ozs.) bread crumbs ^ teaspoon vanilla extract 

Pie crust 

Beat butter substitute and sugar until creamy; add yolks of 
eggs, bread crumbs, and cornstarch. Mix chocolate with milk 
and stir over the fire until chocolate is dissolved, then add to other 
ingredients ; lastly add vanilla and rtifHy beaten Vv'hites of eggs. 

Line pie plate with pastry, pour in chocolate filling, and bake 
three fourths of an hour. 



193 



Cranberry Pie 



1 cup (i pt.) cranberries f cup (1^ gills) boiling water 

1 cup (I lb.) seeded raisins, 1 tablespoon flour 

chopped 1 teaspoon vanilla extract 

1 cup (^ lb.) sugar or honey Pie crust 

Cut cranberries in halves and wash in cold water to remove 
seeds. Now add raisins, sugar, water, flour, and extract. Mix 
and bake between two crusts. 

Cream Cinnamon Pie 

1 cup (I lb.) sugar or honey 2 eggs, separated 

1 tablespoon flour 1 cup (J pt.) boiling water 

1 tablespoon (^ oz.) butter Pastry 

1 teaspoon powdered cinnamon 1 tablespoon powdered sugar 

Mix sugar, flour, butter, cinnamon, and yolks of eggs, then add 
water, slowly stirring until smooth. Turn into pastry lined pie 
plate and bake in moderate oven twenty to twenty-five minutes. 
Beat up whites of eggs to a stiff froth, add powdered sugar, and 
beat again and spread on top of pie. Brown lightly in oven. 

Crumb Pies 

Pie crust | cup (4 ozs.) butter substitute 

2 cups (^ lb.) flour 2 teaspoons baking powder 
1| cups (12 ozs.) sugar or honey 2 eggs, beaten 

^ cup (1 gill) milk 

Line three deep pie plates with pastry. Mix flour, sugar, 
butter substitute, and baking powder together and rub them into 
criunbs. Take out one cup of these crumbs to sprinkle over top 
of pie and to remainder add eggs and milk. Divide into the 
prepared plates, sprinkle over with reserved crumbs, and bake in 
moderate oven twenty to twenty-five minutes. 

Currant Tartlets 

Pastry 1 tablespoon ground rice 

^ cup (1 giH) milk 2 tablespoons (1 oz.) butter sub- 

1 tablespoon (I oz.) sugar stitute 

1 tablespoon fruit juice 3 tablespoons currants 

1 egg, beaten 



194 ECONOMICAL COOKERY 

Line twelve tartlet tins with pastry, but do not bake them. 
Mix ground rice with milk, and put this into a saucepan with 
butter substitute, stir over the fire until boiling, simmer five 
minutes, and remove the pan from the fire. Add sugar, fruit 
juice, currants, and egg. Mix all together, cool slightly, and fill 
into tartlet cases. Bake in a moderate oven twenty minutes. 

Custard Tartlets 

1 cup (^ pt.) milk ^ teaspoon lemon extract 

1 egg, beaten 2 tablespoons (1 oz.) sugar 

2 teaspoons cornstarch Pastry 

Line greased gem pans with pastry and then half cook it. Put 
in the custard mixture and finish cooking. 

Mix cornstarch with a little of the milk. Put the remaining 
milk into a saucepan, and bring slowly to the boil, then pour it 
over the cornstarch, return to the saucepan, and stir until it has 
cooked eight minutes. Whip up egg, sugar, and flavoring to- 
gether, then pour over the cornstarch mixture and stir until 
sugar is dissolved. When cool, it is ready for use. 

Grated Pineapple Pie 

1 cup (I lb.) sugar or honey 1 pinch salt 

2 tablespoons (^ oz.) flour 2 eggs, separated 

1 cup (^ pt.) grated pineapple I5 cups (| pt.) milk 

Pie crust 

Mix sugar, flour dissolved in a little milk, pineapple, salt, and 
beaten yolks mixed with remainder of milk. Pour into pastry- 
lined pie plate and bake in moderate oven twenty to twenty-five 
minutes. Beat up whites of eggs to stiff froth, spread on top of 
pie, sprinkle with sugar, and return to oven to brown. 

Lemon Tarts 

Pastry 2 tablespoons (1 oz.) chopped nut 

2 eggs, beaten meats or cocoanut 

1 cup (§ lb.) sugar or honey 4 tablespoons (2ozs.) butter sub- 

1 lemon stitute, melted 

Line ten tartlets with pastry. Add eggs to sugar and beat 
well, add grated rind and strained juice of lemon, nuts, and 



PASTRIES, PIES AND TARTLETS 195 

butter substitute. Divide into prepared tins and bake in 
moderate oven twenty minutes, or until mixture is firm in 
center. 
These tarts are delicious if served warm. 

Molasses Pie 

1 cup (14 ozs.) molasses 2 cups (^ lb.) flour 

2 cups (1 pt.) hot water 1 cup (| lb.) lard 

1 teaspoon soda 1 cup (^ lb.) sugar 

2 cups (^ lb.) corn flour Pie crust 

Line three pie plates with crust. Mix molasses, hot water, 
and soda together and divide into pie plates. Mix flour, lard, 
and sugar, cut and rub into crumbs. Divide this mixture and 
sprinkle over top of molasses mixture. Bake in a moderate oven 
thirty minutes. 

These pies are deHcious served with milk. 

Peach Pie 

Pie crust 2 eggs, beaten 

1 quart canned peaches f cup (1^ gills) milk 

I cup (4 ozs.) sugar or sirup 

Line pie plate with pastry and fill with peaches which have 
been drained. Mix eggs, milk, and sugar and pour over peaches. 
Bake in moderate oven twenty to twenty-five minutes. This is 
very good served with whipped cream. 

Perfection Pie 

Pastry 1 teaspoon powdered cinnamon 

1| cups (f pt.) apples, chopped f cup (6 ozs.) sugar or honey 

I cup (l lb.) seeded raisins ^ cup (2 ozs.) chopped nut meats 

1 tablespoon vinegar 1 cream cheese 

Line pie plate with pastry. Mix apples, raisins, vinegar, 
cinnamon, and sugar, turn into prepared plate, and bake in a 
moderate oven thirty minutes. Brush top with sweetened milk 
or beaten egg and sprinkle with nut meats. Return to oven six 
minutes. Serve hot with cheese. 



196 ECONOMICAL COOKEKY 

Raisin and Apple Pie 

Pie crust 4 teaspoons fruit juice 

1 cup (2 lb.) seeded raisins 1 teaspoon butter 

2 cups (1 pt.) water | cup (4 ozs.) sugar or sirup 

3 large green apples, chopped ^ teaspoon flour 

2 teaspoons mixed spice 1 tablespoon currants 

1 teaspoon vinegar 

Line pie plate with crust and bake in hot oven five minutes. 
Soak raisins in one cup of the water for several hours. Cook 
apples with the remainder of water until tender ; add spices, fruit 
juice, butter, sugar, flour, and one half of juice from raisins and 
cook until slightly thickened. Now add raisins and currants, 
bring to boiling point, remove from fire, and add vinegar. Pour 
into pie plate, cover with top crust, pinch edges together, brush 
over with milk, bake in hot oven twenty minutes. 

Raisin Pie 

Pie crust 1 cup (^ pt.) milk 

1 cup (^ lb.) seeded raisins 2 eggs, separated 

1 cup (^ lb.) sugar or honey 1 tablespoon powdered sugar 

Line pie plate with pastry and place cleaned raisins around in 
it. Mix sugar, milk, and beaten yolks of eggs together and pour 
over raisins. Bake thirty minutes in moderately hot oven. 
Beat up whites of eggs, add powdered sugar and beat again, pile 
on top of pie, and brown lightly in oven. 

Rhubarb Pie 

Pastry 1 tablespoon (| oz.) butter 

1 egg, beaten 1^ cups (9 ozs.) rhubarb 

1 cup (I lb.) sugar or honey 4 tablespoons cold water 

3 tablespoons (| oz.) flour ^ teaspoon powdered ginger 

Line a pie plate with pastry. Mix egg with sugar and flour, 
add butter, rhubarb, water, and ginger. Mix and turn into 
lined pie plate, cover with pastry, brush over with milk, and bake 
in a hot oven twenty minutes. 

Paste for pies should be kept cold and rolled quite thin. 
Always brush around the edge of the under crust with cold water 
and press the upper one down on it. 



PASTRIES, PIES AND TARTLETS 197 

When baking a jiiicj^ fruit pie, make an incision in the center 
and place a small funnel-shaped piece of paper in it. This will 
keep the juice from escapmg. 

Sour Cream Pie 

1 cup (I pt.) thick sour cream | teaspoon powdered cloves 

1 cup (I lb.) sugar, scant I teaspoon powdered nutmeg 

2 small eggs, beaten I teaspoon powdered ginger 

I teaspoon salt I teaspoon powdered cinnamon 

Pie crust 

Mix cream and sugar together, add eggs, salt, and spices. 
Pour into pastry-lined pie plate, cover with pastry, and bake in 
moderate oven thirty minutes. 

Strawberry Custard Pie 

1| cups (f pt.) milk 1 tablespoon cornstarch 

1 cup (^ lb.) sugar 1 baked pie crust 

2 eggs, separated Fresh ripe strawberries 

Mix one cup of the milk with sugar and yoUvs of eggs and bring 
to boiling point ; then add cornstarch dissolved in remainder of 
milk and cook five minutes. Cover bottom of pie crust with 
strawberries cut in halves, pour over custard, and cover with 
meringue made of whites of eggs stiffly beaten and mixed with a 
little powdered sugar. Brown lightly in oven. 

Tyler Pie 

Pie crust 2 eggs, separated 

I cup (4 ozs.) butter | cup (1 gill) milk 

I cup (6 ozs.) sugar ^ teaspoon vanilla extract 

I cup (3 ozs.) brown sugar ^ teaspoon powdered nutmeg 

Line pie plate with pastry. Beat butter and sugar until 
creamy ; add yolks beaten and milk. Now cook over hot water 
until clear. Take from fire, add egg whites stiffly beaten and 
vanilla. Turn into pastry, sprinkle with nutmeg, and bake in 
hot oven twenty to twenty-five minutes. Serve cold. 



CHAPTER XVII 
CAKES, FILLINGS, AND FROSTINGS 

" Never slam the oven door, 
Cakes will fall to rise no more." 

Cakes form pleasant adjuncts to the food necessities of the 
household, and are of only secondary importance to bread- 
making. 

There are four principal ways of making cakes. 

The first method is used for plain cakes. The fat is rubbed 
into the flour in the same way as for short pastry ; then the dry 
ingredients, such as sugar, fruit, and spice, are added, and lastly 
the eggs and milk. All are then well mixed together. 

The second way is used for fruit, pound, and seed cakes. The 
fat and sugar are creamed together, the eggs beaten in one at a 
time, and the fruit and flour stirred in quickly and lightly at the 
last. 

In the third way the eggs and sugar are beaten together until 
thick and creamy ; then the flour is stirred in lightly and quickly. 
This is used chiefly for sponge cakes and cakes of that texture. 

For the fourth way the sugar, fat, milk, and sirup or molasses 
are melted together, then cooled slightly and added to the dry 
ingredients. This method is used for gingerbreads. 

Care must be taken to insure the right consistency of cakes. 
The mixture should be fairly stiff. If too moist, the fruit will 
sink to the bottom. Good cakes can never be made with in- 
different materials. The greatest care in cleanliness must be 
exercised in all cake making ; and accuracy in proportioning the 
materials to be used is indispensable. 

The flour should be thoroughly dried and sifted, and lightly 
stirred in. Always sift flour before measuring, then sift it 

198 




Raisin axd Apple Pie. Page 196. 




Rhubarb Pie. Pcuje 196. 




Peach Pie. Paqe 195. 




CoooAxrr Birthdvy Cakk. /'(?'/e ^^03. 




Egoless, Milkless, axp Butterless Cake. Page -206. 



CAKES, FILLINGS, AND FROSTINGS 199 

again with the baking powder to insure a thorough blending. 
Always buy the best fruits for cake making as they are the 
sweetest and cleanest. Candied peels should be of good color 
and flavor. They should not be added to cake mixtures in chunks, 
as is often done, but should be in long shredded pieces. Large 
pieces of peel are sometimes the cause of a cake cutting badly. 
Eggs are used both as an aerating agent and as one of the 
" wetting " materials. It is not economy to buy cheap eggs, 
for such eggs are small, weak, colorless, and often very stale. 

If a cake cracks open while baking, the recipe contains too 
much flour. When a cake batter curdles, the texture will 
not be so even as if curdling has not taken place. Sometimes 
the mixture will curdle through the eggs being added too quickly, 
or if the butter contains too much water. This forms a sirup 
with the sugar, and after a certain quantity of eggs have been 
added the batter will slip and sUde about, and will not amalga- 
mate with the other ingredients. 

When baking cakes, if no sweet milk can be procured, the 
same amount of water can be used with good results. 

Cake tins should always be prepared before the mixing of 
the ingredients is commenced ; as many cakes wfll spoil if the 
mixture is allowed to stand and wait because the tins are not 
ready. For inexpensive cakes the tins should be greased and 
dusted out with flour or potato flour. For rich cakes the tins 
should be lined with paper, the paper coming a short distance 
above the tins, so that the cake is protected as it rises. For 
very rich fruit cakes, experience has shown that it is best not 
to grease the paper or tins. The cake is not so liable to bum, 
and the paper can be removed easily when the cake is done with- 
out injuring it. On the other hand, if tins are lined for sponge 
cakes or jelly roll, the paper should be greased. 

For small cakes have a quick oven, so that they set right 
through, and the inside is baked by the time the outside is 
browned. For all large cakes have a quick oven at first, to 
raise them nicely and prevent the fruit from sinking to the 
bottom. The oven should then be aUowed to become slower 
to fire the cakes thoroughly. Cakes should not be hurried. 
Keep the oven steady, though slow, and after putting a large 



200 ECONOMICAL COOKERY 

cake into it do not open the oven door for at least twenty minutes. 
If the door must be opened, special care should be taken to close 
it gently ; if it is slammed carelessly, the shock may make the 
cake fall, and a (quantity of cold air will be shut in which will 
check the baking. 

A very light cake put into a quick oven rises rapidly round 
the sides, but leaves a hollow in the middle. An excess in fat 
and sugar may also cause this ; but there are other causes. If 
a cake is made too light with eggs or powder, and an insufficient 
quantity of flour is added, it will sink in the middle. Another 
frequent cause is the moving of cakes while in the oven before the 
mixture has properly set. The same defect is produced if the 
cakes are removed from the oven before being baked sufficiently. 

Before turning out a cake, allow it to remain in the tin for a 
few minutes. It is best to lay it on a wire cake stand, or lay it 
on a sieve ; but if these things are not handy, a loosely made 
basket turned upside down will do. Do not place cakes in a 
cold place or at an open window, or the steam will condense and 
make them heavy. 

Apple-sauce Cake 

2 eggs, beaten 1 cup (j lb.) barley flour 

1 cup (8 ozs.) sugar I teaspoon salt 

^ cup (4 ozs.) shortening, melted 1 teaspoon soda 

1 teaspoon powdered allspice 1 cup (^ pt.) hot apple sauce 

1 teaspoon powdered cinnamon ^ cup (3 ozs.) Sultana raisins 

^ teaspoon powdered ginger ^ cup (2 ozs.) currants 

^ teaspoon powdered nutmeg i cup (2 ozs.) English walnut 

1 cup (j lb.) flour meats, chopped 

Beat eggs, add sugar, shortening, spices sifted with flours 
and salt, soda dissolved in apple sauce, fruit, and nuts. Mix 
well, pour into greased pan, and bake in slow oven one hour 
and fifteen minutes. 

Barm Brack 

1 yeast cake 1 teaspoon salt 

1 cup (1 gill) milk 2 tablespoons (1 oz.) sugar 

2 tablespoons (1 oz.) butter sub- ^ cup (j lb.) seeded raisins 
stitute 4 tablespoons chopped candied 

1 cup (i lb.) flour citron peel 



CAKES, FILLINGS, AND FROSTINGS 201 

Mix yeast with one tablespoon of the sugar. Make milk 
and butter substitute lukewarm, add this with remaining sugar 
to yeast. Heat bowl and flour, make well in center of flour, 
sprinkle salt round edges, pour yeast, etc., into center, make into 
a batter and beat well with a wooden spoon five minutes, next 
beat in the fruits. Pour into a greased cake tin and leave to 
rise in a warm place one and one half hours. It should rise 
double its own bulk. Bake in hot oven twenty to thirty minutes. 

Boiled Fruit Cake 

I cup (2 ozs.) drippings | teaspoon powdered cloves 

1 cup (8 ozs.) seeded raisins | teaspoon powdered ginger 

1 cup (4 ozs.) currants I teaspoon salt 

I cup (2 ozs.) stoned dates, 1 cup (6 ozs.) brown sugar or 

chopped honey 

I cup (2 ozs.) figs, chopped 1^ cups (f pt.) water 

1 cup (4 ozs.) shredded candied 1 teaspoon baking powder 

citron peel 2 cups (8 ozs.) flour 

1 teaspoon powdered cinnamon ^ cup (2 ozs.) barley flour 

1 teaspoon powdered nutmeg 1 teaspoon baking soda 
Caramel frosting 

Into saucepan put drippings, fruits, spices, salt, sugar, and 
water. Bring to boiling point and boil eight minutes. Turn 
into a bowl, and when cool add baking powder, and soda sifted 
with flour. Mix and pour into greased and floured cake tin 
and bake in moderate oven one hour and fifteen minutes. When 
cold cover with frosting. 

Caramel Frosting 
Boil one cup grated maple or brown sugar and one half cup 
cream or milk until it forms soft baU when tried in cold water, 
add one teaspoon vanilla extract and four tablespoons caramel- 
ized sugar, beat a few minutes, and spread on cake. 

Buttermilk Cake 

1 cup (^\h.) seeded raisins 2 eggs 

1 cup (i lb.) currants 2 teaspoons soda 

2 cups (I lb.) flour 2 cups (1 pt.) buttermilk 

2 cups (I lb.) corn flour 1 teaspoon powdered cloves 

2 cups (1 lb.) sugar 1 teaspoon powdered cinnamon 

I cup (4 ozs.) butter or lard 1 teaspoon powdered ginger 



202 ECONOMICAL COOKERY 

Clean raisins and currants and mix dry with one cup of the 
flour. Cream sugar and butter together, add one egg and beat 
one minute, then add second egg and beat one minute, pour in 
buttermilk, remainder of flours sifted with soda and spices, add 
fruit. Mix thoroughly and quickly, divide into two well- 
greased bread pans, and bake one and one half hours in slow 
oven. 

This cake is inexpensive and improves with age. 

Chess Cake 

Pastry f cup (6 ozs.) sugar or honey 

Watermelon or canteloupe pre- 2 eggs, separated 

serves 2 tablespoons cream 

^ cup (4 ozs.) butter substitute 1 teaspoon powdered cinnamon 

Line individual deep tart pans with pastry, and in each place 
one tablespoon preserves. Cream butter substitute and sugar 
together, add yolks well beaten, cream, and cinnamon. Place 
over fire for a minute or two to melt slightly and divide into 
crusts. Bake in moderate oven thirty minutes, take from oven 
and top with whites of eggs stifily beaten and sweetened with a 
tablespoon of sugar, and return to oven to brown lightly. Serve 
hot or cold. 

Chocolate Cake 

2 eggs, beaten 1 cup (^ pt.) hot water 

1^ cups (12 ozs.) sugar 1 cup (i lb.) flour 

^ cup (4 ozs.) butter substitute 1 cup (I lb.) barley flour 

§ cup (1 gill) sour milk 1 teaspoon baking powder 

J teaspoon soda 1 pinch salt 

1 square (1 oz.) chocolate, grated 1 teaspoon vanilla extract 

Beat eggs and sugar ten minutes, add butter substitute, and 
beat well together. Then add milk and soda mixed together. 
Put chocolate into a cup, dissolve with hot ^vater, and then fill 
cup with hot water and add. Sift in flours, baking powder, 
and salt, add vanilla, and mix carefully. Turn into a square 
greased and papered tin and bake in moderate oven. 



CAKES, FILLINGS, AND FROSTINGS 203 

Chocolate Icing 

1 square (1 oz.) chocolate, grated 2 cups (10 ozs.) confectioners' 

2 tablespoons (1 oz.) butter, sugar 

melted 2^ tablespoons strong coffee 

Mix chocolate with sugar, add butter and sufficient coffee 
to make it spread easily. Beat until creamy and spread on 
cake. 

Cocoanut Birthday Cake 

1 cup (I lb.) butter substitute 2 teaspoons baking powder 

1 cup (^ lb.) sugar J teaspoon salt 

2 eggs 2 cups (I lb.) cocoanut, chopped 

1 cup (I pt.) milk or cream ^ cup (2 ozs.) shredded candied 

2 cups (i lb.) flour citron peel 

2 cups (I lb.) entire wheat flour 1 teaspoon grated orange rind 
Boiled frosting 

Beat butter substitute and sugar until creamy, beat in eggs 
one by one, add milk, flours sifted vv^ith baking powder and salt, 
cocoanut, peel, and orange rind. Mix and turn into a large 
greased and papered cake tin ; bake in a slow oven four hours. 
Cool, cover with frosting, cocoanut, and candles. 



Custard Spice Cakes 

2 eggs, separated 1 teaspoon salt 

I cup (4 ozs.) sugar | teaspoon powdered nutmeg 

1 cup (14 ozs.) molasses 1 teaspoon powdered ginger 

1 teaspoon soda 2 cups (8 ozs.) flour 

1 cup (^ pt.) sour cream ^ cup (2 ozs.) corn flour 

Beat up whites of eggs, add sugar, molasses, soda dissolved 
in cream, salt, and spices sifted with flours. Divide into three 
greased and floured layer-cake tins and bake in moderately 
hot oven twenty minutes. 



Custard Filling 

1 cup (^ lb.) sugar or honey 1 cup (^ pt.) milk 

1 tablespoon cornstarch 1^ teaspoons lemon extract 



204 ECONOMICAL COOKERY 

Into upper part of double boiler put yolks of eggs, sugar 
mixed with cornstarch, milk, and extract. Cook until thick and 
turn out to cool. Spread between cakes. 

Cup Cakes 

1 cup (^ pt.) sour cream I teaspoon powdered nutmeg 

^ teaspoon baking soda | teaspoon powdered cinnamon 

1 cup (I lb.) sugar 1 cup (j lb.) flour 

2 eggs, separated 1 cup (j lb.) corn flour 

1 teaspoon baking powder 

Pour cream mto a bowl, add soda and stir well, add sugar, 
yolks of eggs, spices, flours sifted with baking powder, and 
whites of eggs beaten to a stiff froth. Mix and divide into 
twelve greased muffin pans, and bake in moderately hot oven 
fifteen to twenty minutes. Turn out and serve hot. 

Economical Chocolate Cake 

2 squares (2 ozs.) chocolate 1 cup (4 ozs.) flour 

1 cup (^ pt.) boiling water | cup (2 ozs.) barley flour 

1 cup (^ lb.) sugar or honey 1 teaspoon baking powder 

1 tablespoon (| oz.) butter 1 pinch salt 

1 egg, separated 1 teaspoon vanilla extract 

I teaspoon soda Boiled maple frosting 

Grate chocolate and boil with one half the water until as thick 
as cream. Remove to back of range and add sugar, butter, 
and beaten yolk of egg mixed together. Dissolve soda in 
remainder of water and add to chocolate mixture. Add vanilla 
and sift in flours, baking powder, and salt. Turn into greased 
and floured cake tin and bake in moderate oven thirty minutes. 
Cool and cover with frosting. 

Three tablespoons of cocoa may be used in place of chocolate. 

Boiled Maple Frosting 
Boil one cup grated maple sugar, one tablespoon maple sirup, 
and one cup boiling water until it forms soft ball when tried in 
cold water, or reaches 240° F. by candy thermometer. Pour 
on to stiflfly beaten egg white and continue beating until thick 
enough to spread. 



CAKES, FILLINGS, AND FROSTINGS 205 

Economical Gingerbread 

1 cup (4 ozs.) sugar, brown or 1 teaspoon soda 

white 1 teaspoon powdered ginger 

i cup (7 ozs.) molasses 1 teaspoon powdered cinnamon 

^ cup (4 ozs.) lard ^ teaspoon powdered mace 

^ cup (1 gill) boiling water 1 cup (4 ozs.) flour 

2 tablespoons sour cream | cup (3 ozs.) whole wheat flour 
1 egg, beaten 1 cup (| lb.) currants 

Put sugar in cup, fill up with molasses, and pour into bowl. 
Measure lard and fill up with boiling water, add to molasses, 
then add cream, egg, soda, spices, flours, and currants. Mix 
and turn into a shallow greased and floured tin, and bake in 
moderate oven thirty minutes. 

Another Method. Beat one egg, add three fourths cup brown 
sugar, three fourths cup molasses, three fourths cup butter 
substitute softened, one cup sweet milk, one teaspoon soda 
dissolved in milk, one teaspoon cream of tartar sifted with two 
cups flour, and one half cup cornstarch, one teaspoon each 
powdered nutmeg and allspice, and one tablespoon vinegar. 
Mix well and turn into greased and floured shallow cake tin 
and bake in moderate oven. 

Eggless and Milkless Gingerbread 

1 cup (14 ozs.) molasses or 1 cup (8 ozs.) sugar 

honey 1 cup G pt.) boihng water 

1 teaspoon soda 2 tablespoons (1 oz.) butter sub- 

3 teaspoons powdered ginger stitute 

I teaspoon powdered nutmeg 2 cups (^ lb.) flour 

1 cup (i lb.) corn flour | teaspoon salt 

Into a bowl pour molasses, add sugar, soda dissolved in boiling 
water, butter substitute melted, and flours sifted with spices 
and salt. Mix carefully, turn into a greased and floured shallow 
cake tin, and bake fifty minutes in a moderate oven. 
If liked, cover with following Coffee Frosting : 
Cream one half cup butter substitute with one cup con- 
fectioner's sugar. Beat one egg, add one cup brown sugar or 
honey, one fourth cup cornstarch or potato flour, one eighth 
teaspoon salt, one half cup hot, strong coffee, one and one half 
cups scalded milk, and two squares bitter chocolate. Cook in 



206 ECONOMICAL COOKERY 

double boiler twenty minutes, cool, add one teaspoon vanilla 
extract, and add slowly to creamed butter. This mixture may 
be used for fillings as well as for frosting. 

Eggless, Milkless, and Butterless Cake 

1 cup (14 ozs.) molasses or honey 1 teaspoon soda 

1 cup (8 ozs.) sugar 3 cups (15 ozs.) coarse Graham 

1 teaspoon powdered ginger flour or meal (unsifted) 

1 teaspoon powdered allspice ^ cup (2 ozs.) flour 

^ teaspoon salt 1 cup (I lb.) dates, stoned and 

1 cup (i pt.) water cut small 

Mix molasses, sugar, spices, and salt, add water in which soda 
has been dissolved, flours, and dates. Mix and divide into two 
well-greased and floured cake tins and bake in moderate oven 
three fourths of an hour. This cake is simple, healthful, and 
easily digested. 

English Pork Cake 

1 pound fat pork, chopped fine 1 tablespoon powdered allspice 

2 cups (1 pt.) boiling water 1 tablespoon powdered nutmeg 

1 cup (14 ozs.) molasses or honey 3 cups (f lb.) flour 

2 cups (1 lb.) seeded raisins 2 cups (^ lb.) barley flour 
2 cups (12 ozs.) Sultana raisins 1 tablespoon soda 

4 cups (1 lb.) currants 1 tablespoon baking powder 

1 tablespoon powdered cinnamon 2 cups (12 ozs.) brown sugar 

1 tablespoon powdered cloves ^ teaspoon salt 

Dissolve pork in water, allow to cool, add molasses, fruit, 
flours sifted with spices, soda, baking powder, salt, and sugar. 
Mix well, turn into greased and papered cake pan, and bake in 
moderate oven three and one half hours. This cake keeps well. 

If liked, one half pound each of chopped dates and figs, one 
fourth pound each shredded citron, chopped nuts, and candied 
cherries may be added. 

Fruit Cake without Eggs 

2 cups (^ lb.) flour 1| teaspoons baking soda 

2 cups (I lb.) corn flour 2 cups (1 lb.) seeded raisins 

f cup (6 ozs.) butter substitute 1 teaspoon powdered cinnamon 
2 cups (12 ozs.) brown sugar 1 teaspoon powdered cloves 

li cups (f pt.) sour milk 1 teaspoon powdered nutmeg 

1 teaspoon powdered allspice 



CAKES, FILLINGS, AND FROSTINGS 207 

Sift flours into a bowl, cut and rub in butter substitute, add 
soda, sugar, milk, raisins, and spices. Mix and turn into a 
greased and floured cake tin. Bake one hour in moderate oven. 

If liked, cover with boiled frosting. 

Boiled Frosting 

Boil one cup sugar with one half cup water until it forms soft 
ball when tried in cold water, or reaches 240° F. on candy ther- 
mometer; pour on to stiffly beaten white of one egg, pouring 
in a steady stream ; add, while beating, one teaspoon vanilla 
extract. Beat until thick and spread over cold cake. 

Layer Cake with Filling 

I cup (4 ozs.) butter substitute I teaspoon salt 

1 cup (^ lb.) sugar, brown or 2 eggs, separated 
white I cup (1 gill) milk 

2 teaspoons baking powder 1 cup (I lb.) potato flour 

1 cup (I lb.) flour 

Beat shortening and sugar to a cream, add yolks of eggs well 
beaten, milk, whites of eggs beaten to a stiff froth, and flours 
sifted with baking powder and salt. Mix well, divide into two 
greased and floured layer tins, and bake in moderate oven for 
twenty to twenty-five minutes. Turn out to cool. 

Filling 

^ cup (H ozs.) powdered sugar 1^ tablespoons butter substitute, 

2 tablespoons cocoa melted 

2 tablespoons boiling coffee | teaspoon vanilla extract 

Into a bowl sift powdered sugar and cocoa, add coffee, butter 
substitute, and extract, and beat five minutes. Spread between 
layers and sift powdered sugar over top laj^er. 

Another Method. Put one cup maple sugar, one cup brown 
sugar, and one cup milk into a saucepan, heat slowly, stirring 
constantly until boiling point is reached, boil steadily without 
stirring imtil a soft ball is formed when tested in cold water, 
remove from fire, and stir in one cup chopped nut meats and 
one teaspoon lemon extract. 

Spread between layers and on top of cake. 



208 ECONOMICAL COOKERY 

Lightning Mocha Cake 

1 cup (4 ozs.) flour j teaspoon salt 

1 cup (8 ozs.) sugar, brown or i cup (2 ozs.) butter substitute 

white 2 eggs 

1 teaspoon baking powder Milk 

I teaspoon almond extract 

Into a bowl sift flour, sugar, bakmg powder, and salt. Melt 
shortening in a cup, into this break eggs, fill to top with milk, 
add to dry ingredients with extract, mix well, and bake. This 
mixture will fill three six-inch pans, or two eight-inch pans. 

Mocha Filling 

1 cup (6 ozs.) sugar, brown or 1 tablespoon (5 oz.) butter sub- 
white stitute 

3 teaspoons cocoa 2 tablespoons strong coffee 

Mix sugar, butter, cocoa, and coffee, cream together thor- 
oughly, and spread between cakes. 

Luncheon Cakes 

2 cups (12 ozs.) fight brown sugar | cup (2 ozs.) barley flour 

5 cup (4 ozs.) butter substitute 2 teaspoons baking powder 

2 eggs, beaten 1 teaspoon vanilla extract 

1 cup (I pt.) milk I teaspoon almond extract 

2 cups (8 ozs.) flour Powdered sugar 

Cream sugar and butter substitute together, add eggs, milk, 
flours sifted with baking powder, and extracts. Mix and divide 
into well-greased and floured gem or patty pans and bake in 
moderate oven fifteen minutes. Turn out and roll in powdered 
sugar. 

Old-Fashioned Dried Apple Cake 

2 cups (6 ozs.) dried apples ^ teaspoon powdered cloves 

2 cups (1 lb.) prunes, stoned 1 cup (^ lb.) shortening, creamed 

2 cups (28 ozs.) molasses or honey 2 cups (1 lb.) sugar 

1 cup (^ pt.) water 4 cups (1 lb.) currants 

1 teaspoon powdered cinnamon 1| cups (f lb.) seeded raisins 

1 teaspoon powdered ginger 2 teaspoons soda 

1 teaspoon powdered nutmeg 2 cups (i lb.) flour 

1 teaspoon powdered mace 2 cups (10 ozs.) Graham flour 

I teaspoon powdered allspice ^ teaspoon salt 



CAKES, FILLINGS, AND FROSTINGS 209 

Cook apples, prunes, molasses, water, and spices one hour. 
Then add shortening, sugar, currants, raisins, soda, flours, and 
salt. Mix well and turn into a greased and floured loaf tin and 
bake in slow oven one and one half hours. This cake improves 
with age. 

Premier Cake 

1 cup (I pt.) sour cream 1 cup (| lb.) corn flour 

1 cup (^ lb.) sugar 1 cup (4 ozs.) currants, cooked 

1 cup (6 ozs.) butter substitute 1 teaspoon baking soda 

2 cups (I lb.) flour 1 teaspoon powdered mace 

Beat sugar and butter substitute ten minutes, add cream, flours 
sifted with soda and mace, and add currants. Turn into greased 
and floured cake tin and bake in slow oven one hour. Do not 
ice this cake. 

Quick Coffee Cake 

2 cups (^ lb.) flour 2 tablespoons honey or sirup 
^ cup (2 ozs.) barley flour 1 egg, beaten 

1 teaspoon salt 1| cups (f pt.) milk 

3 teaspoons baking powder Melted butter substitute 

Powdered cinnamon and sugar 

Sift flours, salt, and baking powder into a bowl, add honey 
or sirup, egg, and milk. Beat well and turn into a greased and 
floured shallow cake pan ; brush over with melted butter sub- 
stitute and sprinkle with cinnamon and sugar. Bake in moderate 
oven thirty minutes. 

Another Method. Add to two cups bread dough, one beaten 
egg, one half cup sirup or honey, and one tablespoon melted 
butter substitute. Add no more flour. Put it into shallow 
greased pan to rise, and when light, brush over with melted 
butter substitute, then spread over a mixture of one tablespoon 
each brown sugar, butter substitute, and corn flour. Lastly 
dust with sugar and powdered cinnamon and bake thirty minutes 
in moderate oven. 

Russian Cake 

2 eggs, separated 1 tablespoon cornstarch 

5 cup (4 ozs.) sugar § cup (2 ozs.) flour 

2 tablespoons cold water 1 teaspoon baking powder 

1 teaspoon vanilla extract Orange frosting 



210 ECONOMICAL COOKERY 

Beat yolks and white separately, then combine and beat with 
sugar ; add water, vanilla, cornstarch, flour, and bakmg powder 
sifted together. Mix carefully and turn into greased and 
papered tin. Bake in moderate oven thirty minutes. When 
cold cover with orange frosting made as follows : Put strained 
juice of one orange into a bowl, add enough sifted confectioner's 
sugar to thicken, beat well, and spread over cake. 

School Cake 

1 cup (^ lb.) drippings 1 teaspoon powdered cinnamon 

1 cup (^ lb.) sugar 1 teaspoon powdered ginger 
1 cup (I pt.) molasses or honey 1 teaspoon powdered cloves 

1 egg, beaten 1 teaspoon baking powder 

1 teaspoon salt 1 cup (^ pt.) cold coffee 

1 teaspoon vanilla extract 2 cups (1 lb.) seeded raisins 
11 teaspoons soda Flour 

Cream drippings, add sugar and beat agam; add molasses, 
egg, salt, baking powder, vanilla, soda, spices, coffee, raisins, 
and enough sifted flour to make a batter that will drop in chunks 
from mixing spoon. The amount of flour will vary with the 
kind used, but the egg will prevent any danger of falling. Turn 
into well-greased and floured cake tin and bake in slow oven 
two hours. Take from oven, allow to cool in pan, then turn 
out. Cover with frosting and decorate with nut meats. 

Scotch Cakes 

2 cups (Hb.) flour 1 cup (Hb.) butter substitute 

1 cup (I lb.) barley flour 1 teaspoon powdered cinnamon 

2 cups (1 lb.) sugar, brown or 1 teaspoon powdered ginger 
white 2 eggs, beaten 

Mix flours and sugar, cut and rub in butter substitute, add 
spices and eggs, and mix to soft dough. Lift small lumps of 
dough with a knife and spread them out in the shape of a small 
round cookie on greased pan. Bake in moderate oven from ten 
to twelve minutes. 

Scotch Shortbread 

3 cups (I lb.) flour | cup (o ozs.) sugar 

1 cup (4 ozs.) rice flour 1 cup (8 ozs.) butter or butter 

substitute 



CAKES, FILLINGS, AND FROSTINGS 211 

Mix flours and sugar and sift on to baking board. Press 
moisture out of butter, using a clean towel for purpose, and 
place in center of flours and sugar. Many people are of opinion 
that only sweet butter should be used. This is not so ; butter 
slightly salted makes the best flavored shortbread. Proceed 
to work dry ingredients into butter by kneading ; keep plenty 
of flour between the hands and butter. When all is worked in, 
continue to knead, rubbing the paste well out across the baking 
board. This gives shortness. The paste should be smooth and 
free from cracks. Divide into two pieces, form into round 
cakes, pinch edges, and perforate center with a fork. Lay 
on a papered tin and bake in moderate, steady heat to a nice 
golden color from thirty to forty minutes. 

Allow to stand a little before attempting to lift. 

If liked, the cake may be ornamented with strips of candied 
peel, or smooth white candies, or may be left perfectly plain and 
thickly dusted with powdered sugar on being taken from the 
oven. 

This paste may also be used for cookies by rolling out to 
thickness required for such and by cutting into neat fancy 
shapes. 

Spice Cake 

1 cup (^ lb.) sugar 2 teaspoons baking powder 

1 cup (h lb.) lard, or shortening 1 teaspoon powdered cinnamon 

1 cup (I pt.) molasses or honey 1 teaspoon powdered ginger 

1 cup (^ pt.) milk I teaspoon powdered nutmeg 

3 cups (12 ozs.) flour | teaspoon powdered cloves 

i cup (2 ozs.) corn flour 2 eggs 

Cream sugar and lard, add molasses, milk, flours sifted with 
baking powder, and spices. Drop in eggs without beating and 
mix well into batter. Pour into well-greased and floured cake 
tin and bake in moderate oven forty minutes. 

If liked, cover cake with following chocolate frosting: Put 
ten-cent cake of milk chocolate into upper pan of double boiler 
and melt over hot water, then pour over cake, and sprinkle over 
with a few chopped nut meats. 

If desired, a few caraway seeds may be added. 



212 ECONOMICAL COOKERY 

Somerset Gingerbread 

1 cup (14 ozs.) molasses 1 teaspoon powdered cinnamon 

2 tablespoons (1 oz.) butter sub- ^ teaspoon powdered nutmeg 
stitute 1 egg, beaten 

1^ teaspoons soda ^ cup (1 gill) sour milk or cream 

1 tablespoon sugar 1 cup (4 ozs.) flour 

1 teaspoon powdered ginger | cup (2 ozs.) barley flour 

I teaspoon salt 

Into saucepan put molasses and butter substitute and bring 
them slowly to a boil, stirring so that butter substitute will 
dissolve and mix evenly with molasses. Mix soda, sugar, and 
spices and stir them into molasses and butter substitute. Mix 
egg and milk, add warm mixture to them, and stir in flours and 
salt. Pour into two warm buttered cake pans and bake slowly 
twenty-five minutes. The oven must be very moderate. 

Suffrage Gingerbread 

1 cup (i lb.) ground rice f cup (1| gills) honey or molasses 

2 cups (^ lb.) flour ^ cup (1 gill) milk or cream 
1 cup (4 ozs.) w^hole wheat flour 1 egg, beaten 

4 teaspoons baking powder 1 cup (4 ozs.) ground almonds 

1 tablespoon ginger 1 cup (| lb.) butter substitute 

1 teaspoon mace 1 lemon 

I teaspoon salt 

Into a bowl sift rice, flours, baking pow^der, and spices. Melt 
molasses, add milk and butter substitute, and when dissolved 
pour among flours ; add grated lemon rind, egg, and salt. Pour 
into a greased and floured flat tin and bake in moderate oven 
forty-five minutes. Turn out and cool and cut into slices. If 
liked, the gingerbread may be frosted before it is cut. 

It is not generally loiown that gingerbread has been used 
since the fourteenth century. It was made then, and sold in 
Paris — so Monteil affirms, in his " Historie des Francais." It 
was prepared with rye meal, made into a dough, and ginger and 
other spices, with honey, were kneaded into it. It was intro- 
duced into England by the Court of Henry IV. for their festivals, 
and soon brought into general use. Since then it has retained 
its popularity, and contributed much to the pleasures of young 
and old. A great change was made in its composition after a 
while, and particularly after it was introduced into this country. 




Quick Coffke C'akk. Pacje '09. 





„-.-.3?%^.' _ -r 4 



A— ;u;r!;i) Cakes. 






1 1 I pWKlii 



">,A 



B^^ 



Afternoon- Tea Sandwiches 



/ 



-^i 





Using Electric Chafing Dish. 




Assorted Sandwiches. 



CHAPTER XVIII 
TOASTS AND SANDWICHES 

" With dainty chicken, snow-white bread." 

Sandwich is one of the most useful and appetizing forms of 
food. Most people can manage to eat a sandwich when other 
foods fail to appeal to them. The word " sandwich " originated 
in this wise: One Lord Sandwich, many years ago, was an 
ardent politician, and when Parliament was sitting used to 
spend the greater part of the evening at Westminster. Lady 
Sandwich, a wise wife and careful of her husband's health, was 
distressed at his going so long without a meal, so devised the 
plan of puttmg pieces of meat between bread for her spouse to 
eat without having the trouble of detaching himself from his 
duties. After a time the word became applied to other things 
so disposed besides meat and bread. 

Sandwiches are very tasty and relishing when made with 
tempting fillings. One of the most important things to be 
considered is the bread. New bread is best, but for inexpert 
cutters loaves just one day old are the best. A close-made 
bread should be chosen, or thin sandwiches will be a failure. 
The crust of the bread should be pared off before the slices 
are cut, and the slices cut into the very thinnest possible slices. 
The usual way of cutting sandwiches is square, in long fingers, 
or as crescents. Sandwiches for picnics should be wrapped 
in waxed paper to keep them moist or placed in a tin box lined 
with waxed paper. The butter should be creamed and it must 
be spread on evenly and thmly. 

Baked French Toast 

2 eggs, beaten 4 slices bread 

\ teaspoon salt Butter 

1 cup (^ pt.) milk Sugar 

Powdered cinnamon 
213 



214 ECONOMICAL COOKERY 

Beat eggs with salt and add milk. Spread bread thickly with 
butter, place in greased baking pan and pour over them the 
custard. Place in hot oven until bread is lightly browned and 
egg is firm. Sprinkle with sugar and cinnamon and serve imme- 
diately. 

Another Method. Cut rounds of bread rather thick, about one 
inch. Brown nicely on both sides, then split in two, spread with 
butter on the soft sides. Sprinkle with pepper and celery 
salt. Beat up one egg, add salt and pepper to taste, spread on 
the toast and put in the oven until the egg sets and no longer. A 
little fish and white sauce, or egg sauce, could be used in this 
way. 

Cheese Toast 

4 sHces bread, buttered 2 cups (| lb.) grated cheese 

1 cup (^ pt.) boiUng milk J teaspoon salt 

^ cup (1 gill) cream i teaspoon paprika 

Toast bread, remove crusts, and cut in squares; butter 
while hot and plunge for an instant into hot milk, then place 
on hot plate and keep warm. Heat cream to boiling point, 
add cheese and seasonings and stir constantly until cheese is 
melted. Pour over toast and serve. 

Rolled Cheese Toast is delicious. Take a loaf of fresh bread, 
and spread cut end with soft butter and then cut in thm slices. 
Remove crusts, sprinkle each piece with grated cheese of any 
kind, then roll cornerwise, pinning each with small wooden tooth- 
pick. Arrange on a pan and brown in oven just before serving. 

Com Toast 

2 tablespoons (1 oz.) butter sub- { teaspoon pepper 

stitute 1 cup (5 pt.) canned or fresh 
2 tablespoons (| oz.) flour corn 

1 cup (I pt.) milk or cream 1 pimiento, chopped fine 

5 teaspoon salt Toast 

Blend butter and flour in a saucepan over the fire, add milk 
and stir until boiling; add seasonings, corn and pimiento. 
Make very hot and serve on slices of toast. 



TOASTS AND SANDWICHES 215 



Crab Toast 



2 tablespoons (1 oz.) butter sub- i cup (^ gill) milk 

stitute 1 teaspoon salt 

1 tablespoon bread crumbs I teaspoon pepper 

1 tablespoon chopped parsley i teaspoon paprika 

1 cup (^ pt.) crab meat, cooked 1 teaspoon lemon juice 

Toast biscuits, or thin slices toast 

Melt butter in a saucepan, add bread crumbs, parsley, crab 
meat and mix well ; then add milk and stir over the fire for a 
few minutes, and add seasonings. Spread on hot toasted bis- 
cuits or toast. Serve hot. 

Egg Toast 

Bread slices 2 eggs, beaten 

Milk Sugar 

Powdered nutmeg 

Dip stale bread in milk, just to moisten and remove at once. 
Beat eggs, dip slices of bread in egg, then fry in smoking hot fat. 
When browned, drain, place on hot platter, sprinkle with sugar 
and nutmeg. Serve hot. 

Herring Roe Toast 

6 herring roes 1 egg, beaten 

1 tablespoon flour 4 tablespoons (2 ozs.) lard or 

1 teaspoon salt drippings 

1 teaspoon chopped parsley Hot buttered toast 

1 cup (4 ozs.) bread crumbs Paprika 

Lemon slices 

Wipe roes on a soft cloth, dust with flour and season with salt. 
Brush over with egg, toss in bread crumbs mixed with parsley, 
Heat fat in frying pan, and fry roes in it until brown color. Lay 
a roe on each finger-shaped piece of toast, sprinkle with paprika, 
and serve hot, garnished with small lemon slices. 

Kidney Toast 

2 sheep's kidneys 2 tablespoons milk or stock 

3 teaspoons butter 1 teaspoon salt 

5 teaspoon flour | teaspoon pepper 

1 teaspoon chopped onion Hot buttered toast 

1 tablespoon chopped parsley 



216 ECONOMICAL COOKERY 

Remove skin and fat from kidneys and chop finely. Melt 
butter in a saucepan, add onion and fry for a few minutes, 
then add kidney and stir five minutes, sprinkle in flour and 
seasonings, and moisten with milk or stock. Cook two minutes, 
then arrange mixture on toast and cut into pieces, sprinkle with 
parsley, and serve very hot. 

Tongue Toast 

1 cup (4 ozs.) cooked tongue 1 tablespoon chopped parsley 

1 egg yolk Fingers buttered toast 

2 tablespoons white sauce Bread crumbs 

Remove all skin and gristle from tongue, and chop fine. Put 
it into a saucepan with yolk of egg, sauce, parsley, and heat over 
fire without allowing mixture to boil. Pour it on to toast, 
sprinkle thickly with bread crumbs and brown in oven. Serve 
hot. 

Veal Toast 

Slices hot buttered toast 1 tablespoon chopped onion 

Cooked veal, cut in small pieces 1 tablespoon chopped parsley 

1 tablespoon (^ oz.) butter sub- 1 pinch soda 

stitute 1 teaspoon salt 

1 tablespoon cornstarch | teaspoon pepper 

1^ cups (f pt.) milk, hot J teaspoon paprika 
2 hard-cooked eggs, sHced 

Fill platter with toast and keep hot in oven. Blend butter 
substitute and cornstarch in a saucepan over fire, add milk and 
stir until boiling ; add onion, parsley, soda, and seasonings and 
cook five minutes, then add veal and when all is smoking hot, 
pour over toast. Garnish with eggs and serve immediately. 

Tomato and Cheese Toast 

^ can tomatoes 1 teaspoon mustard 

I pound cheese I teaspoon salt 

4 tablespoons (2 ozs.) sugar 2 eggs, slightly beaten 

Toast 

Heat tomatoes, add cheese, and when it has melted, add 
seasonings and eggs. Serve on hot buttered toast. 



TOASTS AND SANDWICHES 217 

Finnan Haddie Toast 

1 large finnan haddie 1 egg yolk 

1 tablespoon cornstarch 1 hard-cooked egg, chopped 

1 tablespoon (I oz.) butter sub- | teaspoon salt 

stitute ^ teaspoon pepper 

1^ cups (I pt.) milk, hot 1 tablespoon grated cheese 

Buttered toast 

Cut finnan haddie in small pieces, free from skin and bones. 
Blend cornstarch and butter in a saucepan over the fire, add 
milk and stir to boiling point, add yolk of egg, hard-cooked egg, 
and seasonings. Cook fish for a few minutes in a little hot 
dripping and add to sauce. Now add cheese and serve hot on 
toast. 

We toast bread, not merely to browTi it, but to take out all the 
moisture possible, that it may be more easily moistened with 
the saliva and thus easily digested; then we brown it to give 
it a better flavor. If the slice be thick and carelessly exposed 
to a blazing fire, the outside is blackened before the heat can 
reach the inside. The moisture is not evaporated and maJies the 
inside doughy ; and butter, when spread upon the bread, cannot 
penetrate it, but floats on the surface in the form of oil; the 
result is one of the most indigestible compounds. The correct 
way is to have the bread stale and cut into thin uniform slices 
and dried thoroughly before browning. Such toast moistened 
with milk or water may be easily and thoroughly acted upon by 
digestive fluids. 

Baked Bean Sandwiches 

1 cup (I pt.) baked beans 1 teaspoon made mustard 

1 tablespoon tomato catchup 1 teaspoon grated horse-radish 

1 teaspoon onion juice Slices buttered bread 

Rub beans through a sieve or colander, add catchup, onion 
juice, mustard, and horse-radish. Spread between bread. Cut 
into triangles. Or, mash one hard-cooked egg with two tablespoons 
melted butter, add one cup cooked sieved beans, season to taste 
with salt, paprika, and made mustard. Spread between buttered 
bread slices and cut in two across the slice. 



218 ECONOMICAL COOKERY 



Beef and Egg Sandwiches 

1 cup (I lb.) cold chopped beef 2 tablespoons tomato catchup 

1 tablespoon butter, melted 1 teaspoon salt 

5 teaspoon pepper 1 tablespoon Worcestershire 

2 hard-cooked eggs, chopped sauce 

1 tablespoon butter substitute 2 gherkins, chopped 

5 teaspoon salt i teaspoon paprika 

Brown and white bread 

Mix together beef, catchup, butter, and seasonings. Pound 
eggs with butter substitute and gherkins, and add seasonings. 
Spread egg mixture on buttered slices of white bread, and beef 
filling on buttered slices of brown bread. Start first with the 
white bread, then the brown bread, and so on until you have five 
slices. Cut in squares and serve. 



Cheese and Olive Sandwiches 

1 cup (j lb.) grated cheese | tablespoon flour 

2 dozen olives, chopped fine 1 tablespoon sugar 

3 pimientoes, chopped fine | teaspoon mustard 
1 egg ^ teaspoon salt 

i cup (1 gill) sour cream Crisp lettuce leaves 

5 cup (1 gill) vinegar Slices buttered brown bread 

Mix cheese, olives, and pimientoes together. Put egg, cream, 
vinegar, flour, sugar, and seasonings into a saucepan, stir and 
boil until it thickens, then add cheese mixture and cool. Spread 
on bread, put a lettuce leaf between, and press sUces together. 

Cheese and Peanut Butter Sandwiches 

1 cup (5 pt.) cottage cheese Crisp lettuce leaves 

1 cup (I pt.) peanut butter Whole wheat bread 

Mix cheese with peanut butter and spread on buttered slices 
of bread, placed together with crisp lettuce leaf between. 

If there are left-over sandwiches on hand, try using them in 
this way. Dip each sandwich in a thick fritter batter, and fry 
a golden brown in plenty of smoking hot fat. Drain and serve 
hot, piled up on a pretty dish. 



TOASTS AND SANDWICHES 219 



Cheese, Olive, and Nut Sandwiches 

1 dill pickle, chopped 1 small bottle stuffed olives, 

I cup (2 ozs.) chopped English chopped 

walnut meats 1 cup (i lb.) grated or cottage 

I cup (1 gill) mayonnaise dressing cheese 

Buttered sUces brown bread Crisp lettuce leaves 

Into a bowl put pickle, olives, nuts, cheese, and dressing. 
Mix and spread between liberally buttered slices of brown bread. 
Before placing together, lay a lettuce leaf between the slices, 
cut with a biscuit cutter, and serve at once. 

A cheese and nut sandwich that is novel is made as follows : 
Into one cup of green-apple sauce, stir sufficient finely chopped 
nut meats to make a paste thick enough to spread upon well 
buttered brown or gluten bread which has already been spread 
with cream cheese. Cut into triangles and serve at once. 



Deviled Ham and Egg Sandwiches 

1 can deviled ham or tongue 2 hard-cooked eggs, chopped 

i cup (1 gill) French or mayon- J teaspoon salt 
naise dressing I teaspoon pepper 

Thin bread slices 

Mix ham and eggs well, add dressing and seasonings. Mix 
again and spread on thin slices of bread which have had all 
crusts removed. 

Exchange Sandwiches 

1 pound boiled ham 4 sour pickles 

2 bell peppers 2 hard-cooked eggs 

1 small onion § cup (1 gill) mayonnaise dressing 

2 stalks celery Crisp lettuce leaves 

Thin slices buttered bread 

Put ham, peppers, onion, celery, and pickles through food 
chopper, mix with eggs cut in small pieces, and mayonnaise. 
Spread on lettuce leaves between bread slices. Cut into desired 
shapes. 



220 ECONOMICAL COOKERY 

Ham and Almond Sandwiches 

Mix equal parts ground ham and ground almonds, season to 
taste and moisten with thick sweet cream. Serve between thin 
slices of whole wheat bread. 

Fruit Sandwiches 

1 cup (i lb.; stoned dates 2 cups (^ lb.) chopped nut meats 

1 cup (j lb.) preserved cherries 1 tablespoon preserved ginger 

2 cups Q lb.) figs Crackers, buttered 

Put dates, cherries, figs, nut meats, and ginger through food 
chopper. Place in greased baking-powder cans and press down 
well. Stand overnight, and when wanted for use dip cans in 
hot water and loosen contents with a knife. Cut into thin slices 
and place between crackers. Decorate each sandwich with a 
cherry. 

Lobster Sandwiches 

1 cup (^ pt.) cooked or canned Anchovy essence 

lobster meat Chopped pickled gherkins or 
Mayonnaise or boiled dressing olives 

Salt and red pepper Buttered rolls or bread 

Chop lobster meat, moisten with salad dressing, season with 
salt, pepper, and anchovy, and spread on buttered rolls, or be- 
tween slices of buttered bread. Sprinkle over with gherkins or 
olives. If liked, one chopped, hard-cooked egg may be added to 
mixture. 

Nut Sandwiches 

1 cup (4 ozs.) chopped nut meats i cup (2 ozs.) sugar or honey 
^ cup (1 gill) vinegar i teaspoon salt 

1 egg, beaten h lemon 

1 cup (§ pt.) thick sour cream White or Graham bread 
Crisp lettuce leaves 

Bring vinegar to boiling point. Mix egg with sour cream, add 
sugar (or honey) and salt, and pour into hot vinegar. Stir until 
it reaches boiling point, remove from fire, and cool; then add 
strained lemon juice and pour over nuts. This filling is better 



TOASTS AND SANDWICHES 221 

if allowed to stand several hours before using. Spread between 
slices of buttered bread. A lettuce leaf may be placed between 
slices if desired. 

Rolled Sandwiches 
Loaves bread Softened butter 

To make Rolled Sandwiches, cut bread in thin slices, having 
first shaved off all the crust from loaf. Pack slices one on 
another, and wrap in wet table napkin and leave one hour. 
Brush each slice of bread with softened butter, then roll and 
wrap firmly in waxed paper. Set rolls of paper in refrigerator 
and just before serving remove papers. The sandwiches will 
retain their roUed-up shape. 

Rolled Celery Sandwiches 

Rolled Celery Sandwiches are delicious. Take loaf of fresh 
bread, cut off crusts, and spread before slicing with creamed 
butter; dust with salt and pepper, and roll tightly around 
three small stalks of celery. The celery should be crisp and 
tender and cut in small strips of suitable length and dusted with 
fine salt while damp. 

Sausage and Pickle Sandwiches 

Left-over cooked sausages Salad dressing 

Pickles cut in small pieces Slices whole wheat bread, buttered 

Heat left-over sausages and cut fine, then mix with a few 
pickles, and moisten with salad dressing. Spread on bread and 
place two slices together. These sandwiches are excellent for 
picnics. 

Sweet Chocolate Sandwiches 

2 squares (2 ozs.) chocolate 1 cup (| lb.) sugar 

2 tablespoons cream f cup (2 ozs.) nut meats, chopped 

1 tablespoon (^ oz.) butter fine 

Shces buttered bread 

Melt chocolate over slow fire, add cream, butter, and sugar, 
and cook five minutes over hot water ; add nuts and mix. Let 
cool before spreading on bread. Cut in neat shapes and serve. 



222 ECONOMICAL COOKERY 

Tomato Sandwiches 

1^ tablespoons (| oz.) sugar 1 cup (| pt.) water 

1 tablespoon flour 1 tablespoon (§ oz.) butter 

1 teaspoon salt | teaspoon red pepper 

1 teaspoon mustard Thick cream 

2 eggs, beaten Ripe tomatoes, peeled and sliced 
^ cup (1 gill) vinegar thin 

Thin shces buttered bread 

In upper pan of double boiler mix sugar, flour, salt, and mus- 
tard; add eggs, vinegar, water, butter, pepper and cook over 
hot water until thick. Cool, and to every tablespoon of dressing 
add equal quantity of cream. Dip tomato slices into dressing 
and place between bread slices. Cut any shape desired. 

Cold Broiled Tomatoes make excellent sandwiches. Cut rounds 
of rye or oatmeal bread and butter them. Take firm, thick 
slices ripe tomatoes, brush over with beaten egg, toss in fine 
bread crumbs and fry in hot fat. Drain and brush over with 
melted butter and season to taste. Serve between the rounds of 
bread. 



CHAPTER XIX 
CHAFING-DISH COOKERY 

" How many things by season seasoned are 
To their right praise and true perfection." 

The chafing dish was introduced to the fashionable world as a 
fad, but has remained as a fact. A desire to become an adept in 
tossing up various savory repasts has unconsciously led many 
a novice into the mysteries of cookery, bounded by broader 
realms than that occupied by the modest chafing dish. 

For impromptu collations what is so suggestive of congenial 
camaraderie as a steaming delicacy brought to perfection by the 
host and hostess and the friendly assistance of their guests ? 

The chafing dish is invaluable for a hasty breakfast, a dainty 
luncheon, late supper, or Sunday-night tea. And nowhere does 
it give better service than in the sick room, where small quantities 
quickly prepared and served hot will often tempt a whimsical 
appetite. 

The ultimate success of cooking with a chafing dish depends 
largely upon the cook's familiarity with its various details. One 
need but put into operation certain common-sense rules. Cul- 
tivate the instinct of knowing how to make the most of the 
lamp, work quickly and with deft fingers, and have at hand the 
requisite utensils and condiments, so that time and the savori- 
ness of the repast need not be lost. 

Have the water pan about one third full of hot water — hot 
when convenient, as this saves time. Put blazer or food pan 
over it while water is heating. Use hot-water pan only when 
preparation requires slow cooking or one that burns easily. 

When great heat is called for, as in broiling, remove hot-water 
pan and put blazer directly over flame. To cook quickly, use 
only the blazer and have it well heated before beginning to cook, 

223 



224 ECONOMICAL COOKERY 

It is well to keep on hand for serving a luncheon or supper such 
useful accessories as canned soups, lobster, salmon, shrimp, 
sardines, tongue, peas, corn, mushrooms, tomatoes, cheese, 
crackers, pickles, olives, and various relishes for fish and meat, 
besides canned milk. 

Absolute cleanliness is essential in keeping a chafing dish and 
its various parts in good order. Be sure not to allow any mois- 
ture to remain, as rust speedily follows. After finishing with the 
chafing dish, place it and the utensils into hot water to soak ; 
when allowed to dry overnight, the attendant scouring and 
scraping the next day will scratch and remove the finish either 
on nickel or silver. 

Apricot Custard 

6 preserved apricots 2 tablespoons sugar 

2 cups (1 pt.) milk 1 tablespoon potato flour or corn- 

2 eggs, separated starch 

1 teaspoon lemon extract 

Cut apricots into small pieces and put them in a glass dish. 
Put milk, yolks of eggs, sugar, and potato flour, or cornstarch in 
blazer of chafing dish ; place blazer over boiling water and stir 
mixture until it thickens, then add extract, remove, and cool. 
When cold pour over fruit and place whites of eggs stiffly beaten 
with tablespoon sugar on top. Serve with cake. 

Barbecue of Poultry or Game 

2 cups (I lb.) cooked poultry or 4 tablespoons (2ozs.) butter sub- 
game stitute 

2 tablespoons vinegar 4 tablespoons tomato sauce 

2 tablespoons oil Salt and pepper 

1 small chopped shallot Pieces dry toast 

Cut poultry or game into thin slices. Mix oil, vinegar, shallot, 
and a little salt and pepper on a plate, and allov/ poultry or game 
to soak in this mixture thirty minutes. Melt butter substitute 
in chafing dish, add tomato sauce, and if liked two tablespoons 
sherry wine. Drain poultry and lay it in sauce. Season to 
taste, and heat thoroughly, but without boiling. Serve with 
dainty pieces of dry toast. 



CHAFING-DISH COOKERY 225 



Bread Slices with Cheese 

4 slices bread 3 tablespoons grated cheese 

2 tablespoons (1 oz.) butter sub- ^ cup (1 gill) stock or milk 
stitute 1 teaspoon salt 

3 tablespoons chopped cooked | teaspoon pepper 
meat 

Remove crusts from bread, and cut into finger-shaped pieces. 
Melt butter substitute in blazer of chafing dish, fry bread brown 
on both sides and drain. Now put meat, cheese, stock, and 
seasonings into blazer, stir over lamp until very hot and then 
spread on the bread. Serve hot. 

Cake Surprises 

1 egg, well beaten Sponge or white cake 

1 cup (I pt.) milk 2 tablespoons (1 oz.) butter 

1 teaspoon vanilla extract Preserves 

Mix egg, milk, and extract together. Dip slices of sponge or 
white cake in batter and allow to soften. Melt butter in chafing 
dish and when hot fry cake brown on both sides. Spread a layer 
of preserves on each slice and place two together. Serve with 
any sweet sauce, or hot milk, or whipped and sweetened cream. 

Chicken S la Creole 

2 cups (1 pt.) canned tomatoes ^ teaspoon sugar 

1 small green pepper, chopped I teaspoon celery salt 

fine 2 cups (| lb.) cooked chicken, 
1 tiny white onion, chopped diced 

I teaspoon salt 1 tablespoon (^ oz.) butter 

In upper half of chafing dish put tomatoes, add pepper, onion, 
and seasonings, and simm.er, stirring frequently, until tomato 
sauce is quite thick. Add chicken and butter and serve as soon 
as chicken is heated through. 

Cod Tongues with Tomato Sauce 

12 cod tongues Flour 

Milk Hot fat 

Tomato sauce 



226 ECONOMICAL COOKERY 

Wash tongues, dip in milk, then toss one by one in flour. Have 
hot vegetable oil or drippings in chafing-dish — enough to cover 
the bottom. Lay in tongues, keeping them separate, and cook 
three minutes on each side. When browned, drain carefully, 
and serve with hot tomato sauce. 

Another Method. Fry tongues, keep them hot, and to fat 
remaining in pan add enough flour to thicken, add enough milk 
or cream to make a nice sauce and season with salt, pepper, and 
powdered nutmeg. Cook five minutes, add tongues, and heat ; 
then add one half tablespoon chopped parsley and pour over hot 
buttered toast. 

Cod Sounds. Soak sounds in warm water several hours. 
Scrape off skin, boil and serve with egg sauce on toast, or after 
heating slowly in milk pour thin white sauce over them and serve 
on toast with garnish of sliced hard-cooked egg, or fry, and serve 
with tomato sauce and parsley. 

Com Fritters 
1 can sweet corn ^ teaspoon salt 

5 tablespoons (1| ozs.) flour | teaspoon pepper 

f tablespoon sugar Cracker or bread crumbs 

Mix corn with flour, add sugar and seasonings. Have ready 
a plate of crumbs and into these drop a tablespoon of the corn 
mixture, turn with a knife and spoon (it requires both in handling 
as the batter should be quite soft) until well coated. Drop into 
the chafing-dish which is one half filled with hot fat. Flatten 
with a knife so that the fritters will be round and fairly thin. 
Fry and brown thoroughly en both sides and serve hot. 

Another Method. Drain moisture from one can corn. Chop 
com and add one cup flour sifted with one teaspoon baking 
powder, one half teaspoon salt, and one fourth teaspoon each 
pepper and paprika. Add beaten yolks two eggs and whites 
beaten to stiff froth. Fry in hot vegetable oil in chafing dish, 
drain and serve hot. 

Creamed Codfish 
1 glass shredded codfish 2 cups (1 pt.) milk 

4 tablespoons (2 ozs.) butter sub- ^ teaspoon pepper 
stitute I teaspoon paprika 

4 tablespoons (1 oz.) flour 2 egg whites, beaten 



CHAFING-DISH COOKERY 227 

Rinse codfish in cold water and drain well. Melt butter 
substitute in chafing dish, stir in flour, and when smooth and 
bubbling, add milk, seasonings, and codfish. Simmer ten 
minutes and just before serving fold in egg whites. Serve at 
once on buttered toast, or in hot individual dishes. 

Creamed Crab Flakes 

2 hard-cooked eggs 1 cup (^ pt.) cream 

3 tablespoons bread crumbs 1 cup (| pt.) crab meat 
1| tablespoons pimientoes | teaspoon salt 

(canned red peppers), chopped j teaspoon powdered nutmeg 

4 tablespoons (2 ozs.) butter sub- 1 teaspoon lemon juice 
stitute 

Chop whites of eggs and mash yolks, add bread crumbs and 
pimientoes. Melt butter in chafing dish, stir in egg mixture, 
add cream, crab meat, and seasonings. Stir until smooth and 
hot and serve at once in hot individual dishes. 

Deviled Bananas 

6 bananas | teaspoon salt 

2 tablespoons (1 oz.) butter sub- | teaspoon paprika 

stitute 1 tablespoon chopped olives 

1 tablespoon chopped pimento Toast fingers 

Peel and scrape bananas, and cut them in halves. Melt 
butter substitute in chafing dish, add bananas, pimento, season- 
ings, and olives, and cook ten minutes. Serve hot on buttered 
fingers of toasted bread. 

Fish k la Reine 

2 cups (I lb.) boiled or canned 1 tablespoon (| oz.) butter 
fish 1 tablespoon flour 

1 cup (I pt.) milk or cream 2 tablespoons finely chopped 

^ teaspoon salt mushrooms 

^ teaspoon paprika 1 egg yolk 

1 tablespoon chopped parsley 1 teaspoon lemon juice 

Flake fish and remove bones and skin. Melt butter in chafing 
dish, stir in flour, add milk, and bring to boiling point. Now add 
mushrooms, seasonings, and fish, and heat carefully over hot 
water. Add egg yolk, parsley, and lemon juice. Serve very hot. 



228 ECONOMICAL COOKERY 



Fried Beans 

2 cups (1 pt.) cooked beans 1 teaspoon salt 

1 onion, chopped I teaspoon pepper 

1 teaspoon chopped parsley 2 tablespoons (1 oz.) butter sub- 

stitute 

Mix beans with onion, parsley, and seasonings. Melt butter 
substitute in chafing dish, add bean mixture, cover chafing dish, 
and cook fifteen minutes. Stir occasionally and serve beans hot. 

Or melt two tablespoons butter substitute in blazer and when 
very brown add one tablespoon vinegar, one teaspoon salt, and 
one fourth teaspoon pepper. When hot pour over two cups of 
hot cooked beans. 

Fried Tomatoes 

Ripe or green tomatoes Salt and pepper 

Flour Hot fat 

Select large tomatoes of uniform size, cut them in slices one 
half inch thick, dip in flour seasoned with salt and pepper, and 
fry in hot fat in chafing dish until tender and brown. Serve with 
or without white sauce. If liked, tomatoes may be garnished 
with broiled bacon. 

Golden Buck 

^ cup (1 gill) milk I teaspoon paprika 

2 cups (1 pt.) grated cheese Buttered toast 

i teaspoon made mustard Poached eggs 

Pour milk into upper pan of chafing dish and heat over hot 
water, then add cheese and seasonings. Stir constantly until 
cheese melts. Pour over toast, place poached eggs on top, dust 
lightly with salt, and serve at once. 

Macaroni, Cheese, and Tomatoes 

2 cups (1 pt.) cooked macaroni i cup (1 gill) tomatoes, canned 
1 green pepper, chopped | cup (1 oz.) grated cheese 

1 small onion, chopped ^ teaspoon salt 

4 tablespoons vegetable oil | teaspoon pepper 

Cut macaroni into neat pieces and then measure it. Heat oil 
in blazer of chafing dish, add pepper and onion, and cook twelve 



CHAFING-DISH COOKERY 229 

minutes, stirring constantly. Add tomatoes, cheese, and season- 
ings, and serve in hot ramekins when cheese is melted. 

Cooked spaghetti or vermicelli may be used instead of 
macaroni. 

Mushrooms with Eggs 

1 pound mushrooms | teaspoon pepper 

2 tablespoons (1 oz.) butter 2 tablespoons cream 

2 large eggs, beaten Small rounds buttered toast 

I teaspoon salt Parsley 

Wash, dry, and chop mushrooms ; melt butter in chafing dish, 
add mushrooms, fry four minutes, add eggs, seasonings, and 
cream ; stir until set, then pile a small heap on each piece of toast. 
Garnish with parsley and serve hot. 

Mussels k la Mariniere 

26 to 36 mussels | cup (1 gill) mussel liquor 

3 tablespoons (1| ozs.) butter f cup (1^ gills) milk 

1 small onion, chopped fine 2 teaspoons chopped parsley 

2 tablespoons (| oz.) flour | teaspoon salt 

J teaspoon pepper 

Wash mussels and lift them out of water. Those that float 
on surface of water are not sound. Put mussels into hot water 
compartment of chafing dish, add small quantity water, cover 
and cook until mussels open. Drain and reserve liquor. Cut 
away the '' beard ", the little black frill, with a pair of scissors, 
and mussels are ready for use. Melt butter in chafing dish, add 
onion, and cook slowly for a few minutes. Stir in flour, add 
mussel liquor and milk, and stir till boiling. Simmer eight 
minutes, add parsley, seasonings, and mussels, and serve hot. 

Mussels are richer in protein than practically any other sea 
food and have the distinct advantage of being the most easily 
digestible. They are nutritious, wholesome, and inexpensive. 

Oysters k la Francesca 

30 oysters ^ teaspoon salt 

2 tablespoons (1 oz.) butter | teaspoon pepper 

4 tablespoons (1 oz.) flour I teaspoon powdered nutmeg 
1 cup (I pt.) milk or cream 2 egg yolks, beaten 

Croutons fried bread 



230 ECONOMICAL COOKERY 

Scald oysters in their liquor until plump, drain, and strain juice. 
Blend together in chafing dish butter and flour; when smooth, 
add one cup o^^ster juice, milk, and seasonmgs, and cook five 
minutes. Add egg yolks and oysters, and stir until creamy. 
Serve hot on croMons of fried bread. 

Sardines with Chili Sauce 

1 cup (I pt.) chiU sauce 1 box sardines 

Strips buttered toast 

Heat chili sauce in chafing dish, add sardines, and when very 
hot serve on buttered toasted bread. 

Thin slices of bacon fried in chafing dish and placed on hot 
buttered toast may be served with hot chili sauce poured over. 

Savory Peppers with Onion 

2 tablespoons (1 oz.) butter sub- 1 egg, beaten 

stitute 1 teaspoon salt 

I cup (2 ozs.) grated cheese | teaspoon pepper 

1 chopped green or red pepper I teaspoon paprika 

1 onion, chopped Buttered toast fingers 

Melt butter substitute in chafing dish, add cheese, green or 
red pepper, onion, egg, and seasonings. Stir and cook until well 
blended and serve on buttered toasted bread fingers. 

Shad Roes 

Shad roes Flour 

1 teaspoon vinegar 2 tablespoons (1 oz.) butter 

Lemon slices 

Boil roes ten minutes in lower compartment of chafing dish in 
boiling salted water to which vinegar has been added. Drain 
and place in cold water ten minutes, then drain again, cut in neat 
pieces and dip in flour. Melt butter in blazer, lay in roes, and 
cook them evenly and quickly. Pour over a little melted butter 
and serve with lemon shces. 




^r^, ^..rt^ 



Deviled Bananas. Page 227. 




Potted Salmon. J^oie J41- 





Cornish Pasty. Page 245. 




Celery and Oysters. Page 244- 



CHAFING-DISH COOKERY 231 

Tomato Sauce and Eggs 

^ can tomatoes 1 tablespoon (^ oz.) butter sub- 

I teaspoon salt stitute 

J teaspoon pepper 1 teaspoon flour 

1 teaspoon chopped onion 2 eggs 

2 teaspoons chopped parsley Hot buttered toast 

2 tablespoons grated cheese 

Heat tomatoes in chafing dish with seasonings, then thicken 
with butter rubbed with flour, simmer five minutes and strain. 
Heat this sauce, then slip into it the eggs and let them poach ; 
remove to toast, pour sauce around toast on a hot dish, and 
sprinkle with cheese. Serve hot. 

Tomato Wiggle 

1 can (2 cups) tomatoes I cup (2 ozs.) sugar 

2 cups (i lb.) cheese, grated J teaspoon salt 
2 eggs, beaten Toasted bread 

Heat tomatoes in chafing dish, add cheese, and when melted, 
add eggs slightly beaten, sugar, and salt. Stir with a wooden 
spoon and cook three minutes. Serve at once on buttered toast. 

Tripe and Oysters 

1 pound honeycomb tripe I cup (1 giU) milk 

2 tablespoons (1 oz.) butter 25 oysters 

1 small onion, chopped fine ^ teaspoon salt 

1 tablespoon flour | teaspoon pepper 

Boil tripe until perfectly tender and cut into neat, narrow 
strips. Melt butter in chafing dish ; add onion, then cover and 
cook until soft but not browned. Stir in flour and milk, and 
when boiling add tripe and oysters. As soon as gills of oysters 
curl, add seasonings and serve very hot. 

Welsh Rarebit 

3 tablespoons (1^ ozs.) butter J teaspoon paprika 

6 tablespoons (H ozs.) flour 3| cups (If pts.) milk, scant 

i teaspoon mustard 1 cup {{ lb.) American cheese, 

J teaspoon salt cut fine 

Toasted bread 



232 ECONOMICAL COOKERY 

Melt butter in chafing dish, stir in flour, add seasonings and 
milk slowly. Cook five minutes, stirring constantly, then add 
cheese and continue stirrmg mitil cheese is melted. Serve hot 
with toasted bread, or on toasted bread. 



CHAPTER XX 
COLD MEAT COOKERY 

" Cut and come again." 

Twice-cooked meat is not injurious unless it is heated in such 
a fashion as to render it hard and leathery, in which case undue 
strain is thrown on the digestive organs. This is especially 
unfortunate when it occurs with individuals who are physically 
or mentally fatigued. Cold meat reheated is less nourishing, 
because no matter how careful the cooking process, a certain 
amount, however small, of the nutritive juices escapes during 
the first cooking, though retained and served as gravy. When 
the meat is reheated, this gravy having been used, and the juices 
which have escaped from the cut surfaces into the dish having 
dried, the meat contains not only less flavor, but also less nourish- 
ment. The cook, if she be wise, adds, to recompense these losses, 
various piquant flavorings, extra sauces, and so forth, producing 
finally a very savory and easily digested concoction, but still one 
actually less nourishing than a freshly cooked steak or cut from 
a joint, supposing them to have been correctly prepared in the 
widest sense of the term. In cases where meat has in the first 
instance been stewed to rags or badly over-roasted it has but a 
low food value, even when first served. It is necessary to bear 
in mind that meat should never be actually twice cooked; it 
requires not cooking, but, if possible, merely reheating. It is 
the faulty method of utilizing cold meat that has given it a bad 
name. 

Beef and Potato Cutlets 

2 cups (^ lb.) cold cooked meat 1 teaspoon salt 

6 cooked potatoes, mashed ^ teaspoon pepper 

2 tablespoons (1 oz.) butter sub- 1 cup (| pt.) stock or water 

stitute 1 tablespoon chopped parsley 

4 tablespoons (1 oz.) flour 1 egg, beaten 

1 teaspoon Worcestershire sauce Bread crumbs 

233 



234 ECONOMICAL COOKERY 

Blend butter substitute and flour in a saucepan, add seasonings 
and stock, and stir until boiling ; boil five minutes, then add meat, 
parsley, and potatoes, and mix thoroughly together. Allow to 
cool, form into neat cutlets, brush over with egg, toss in bread 
crumbs and fry in smoking hot fat, drain, and serve hot. 

Beef au Gratin 

1 cup (4 ozs.) cooked beef 1 tablespoon flour 

1 cup (4 ozs.) bread crumbs 1 cup (| pt.) stock or water, hot 

1 teaspoon chopped onion 1 teaspoon salt 

1 tablespoon (| oz.) butter sub- ^ teaspoon pepper 
stitute 1 teaspoon vinegar 

Put meat through food chopper, or chop it finely, add crumbs, 
and mix well. Lightly brown onion in butter, sprinkle in flour, 
and when browned add stock, stir until smooth, add seasonings, 
and mix in meat and crumbs. Pour into greased shallow fire- 
proof dish, cover lightly with crumbs (or mashed potatoes), dot 
with butter substitute, and brown in a hot oven. Serve hot. 

Beef Charlotte 

Stale bread Pepper and salt 

Gravy or stock Butter substitute 

Chopped cooked meat 1 onion, chopped 

Cut fairly thin slices from a stale loaf of bread, lay them on a 
platter, and pour over sufficient gravy or stock to moisten without 
exactly soaking them. Grease a fireproof dish, line it with the 
bread, put in layer of cooked meat, onion, and seasonings, 
arrange second layer of bread on top, and repeat until dish is 
almost full, using a good layer of bread crumbs to roof in the 
charlotte. Dot with butter substitute, bake in moderate oven 
one hour, serve hot in the same dish. 

Cold Meat Patties 

2 cups (8 ozs.) cold meat, I teaspoon pepper 
chopped ^ cup (1 gill) stock or gravy 

1 teaspoon salt 1 teaspoon chopped parsley 

Pastry 



COLD MEAT COOKERY 235 

Grease gem pans, and line them with rounds of pastry. Mix 
meat with seasonings, stock, and parsley. Fill pans with mixture, 
cover with rounds of pastry, trun edges neatly, brush over with 
milk or beaten egg, and bake thirty minutes in moderate oven. 

The meat mixture may be put into timbale cases made as 
follows: Beat up one egg, add one cup flour, sifted with one 
half teaspoon each salt and baking powder, then add one table- 
spoon oil, and three fourths cup of milk, and beat well. Leave 
in cool place one hour. Heat timbale iron in hot fat, then dip 
into batter, turn into hot fat, and fry. Drain, fill with mixture, 
and heat in oven until thoroughly hot. 

Cooked Meat en Casserole 

2 pounds cooked meat | teaspoon pepper 

10 potatoes, peeled and sliced 2 carrots, sliced 

2 tablespoons (| oz.) flour 1 turnip, sliced 

1 teaspoon salt 1 onion, shced 

Water or stock 

Cut meat into small pieces and roll in flour mixed with season- 
ings. Place alternate layers of vegetables and meat in a casse- 
role with a final layer of potatoes well sprinkled with salt. Fill 
with water or stock, cover closely, and cook four hours. Thirty 
minutes before serving remove cover so that potatoes may brown. 

The addition of one cup of cooked peas, either fresh or 
preserv^ed, adds greatly to the flavor of this excellent dish. 
Dried peas soaked overnight and carefully cooked are also very 
good. 

Cottage Pie 

2 cups (8 ozs.) cold chicken 6 potatoes, shced 

1 carrot, sliced 1 teaspoon salt 

1 turnip, sliced I teaspoon pepper 

1 onion, sliced 1 tablespoon soy bean flour 

2 cups (1 pt.) stock or water 

Line a greased pudding or fireproof dish with a layer of cold 
chicken cut in strips or slices, then put in a layer of the vege- 
tables, sprinkle a little of the flour on each layer, and season with 
salt and pepper. Now pour in stock or water and cover dish 



236 ECONOMICAL COOKERY 

with lid, bake slowly until vegetables are quite soft. Remove 
lid a short time before it is ready so as to brown nicely. 

Coquilles of Chicken 

6 tablespoons chopped cooked 1 tablespoon flour 

chicken 1 cup (^ pt.) milk, hot 

2 tablespoons rice, cooked | teaspoon powdered mace 

2 tablespoons (1 oz.) drippings 1 teaspoon salt 

I teaspoon pepper 

Melt drippings, stir in flour and when smooth, add milk and 
stir until boiling, add seasonings, stir five minutes, add chicken 
and rice, and cook slowly with lid on pan fifteen minutes. Pour 
into hot ramekins, put in the oven for a few minutes, and serve 
hot. A poached egg is often placed in the center of each little 
dish of mince. 

Creamed Chicken in Bread Patties 

3 or 4 bread patties 1^ cups (f pt.) white sauce 
1| cups (I pt.) cooked chicken, | teaspoon celery salt 

diced Salt and pepper 

To Make Patties. Use three rounds of bread for each patty, 
removing centers from the two upper layers. Moisten each slice 
with a little beaten white of egg and brown patties in moderate 
oven. Season sauce nicely and heat it with chicken ; divide into 
patties, garnish with parsley, and serve very hot. 

Curried Meat 

1 onion, sHced 1 cup (J pt.) stock or water 

2 tablespoons (1 oz.) drippings, 1 apple, chopped 
melted 1 teaspoon salt 

1 tablespoon flour 1 cup {\ lb.) cooked meat, sliced 

2 teaspoons curry powder 1 teaspoon lemon juice or vinegar 

Lightly brown onion in drippings, stir in flour and curry 
powder, and cook slowly twenty minutes, stir in stock or water, 
add apple and salt ; when boiling allow to simmer thirty minutes. 
Add meat and lemon juice and allow to cook thirtj'' minutes. 

Boiled rice and chutney are usually served with curry. 



COLD MEAT COOKERY 237 

Haricot Mutton 

1| pounds cold cooked mutton 4 tablespoons (2 ozs.) butter sub- 

3 cups (1| pts.) stock or water stitute 

1 carrot, diced 4 tablespoons (1 oz.) flour 

1 turnip, diced 1 bunch herbs 

3 potatoes, diced 1 teaspoon salt 

1 onion, diced I teaspoon pepper 

This dish can be made with fresh meat just as well as with 
cooked. Cut meat into fairly thick slices, trimming off all but 
a tiny piece of fat. Put all bones and rough pieces of meat into 
a saucepan with stock or water, and let them simmer while 
vegetables are being prepared. Put vegetables into plenty of 
boiling salted water, cook until tender, and drain well. Melt 
butter substitute in a pan, put in carrot, turnip, and onion, and 
fry until slightly browned, lift them out, and put them in a fire- 
proof dish. Sprinkle flour into fat, and brown carefully, add 
two cups of stock and stir until boiling. Strain it into fireproof 
dish, add herbs, cover with lid, and simmer ten minutes. Add 
meat, potatoes, and seasonings, remove herbs, make meat very 
hot, and serve hot in the same dish. 

If liked, one cup cooked beans may be added. 



Hashed Meat 

2 cups (8 ozs.) cold meat, cut in 1 teaspoon salt 

thin slices | teaspoon pepper 

1 tomato, sUced 1 carrot, chopped 

1 onion, chopped 1 turnip, chopped 

2 tablespoons (1 oz.) butter sub- 1 tablespoon flour 

wstitute 2 cups (1 pt.) stock or water 

Put butter substitute into a saucepan, and when quite hot, 
brown in it onion and flour; add stock or water, and boil 
up, then add tomato, carrot, turnip, and seasonings., simmer 
slowly one hour, lay in the meat, and cook gently thirty 
minutes. Dish meat neatly and strain over the gravy. Garnish 
with parsley and toast points, or in a border of hot mashed 
potatoes. 



238 ECONOMICAL COOKERY 

Lamb with Peppers and Potatoes 

2 cups (1 pt.) cooked lamb, diced 1 teaspoon chopped onion 
1 cup (j pt.) boiled potatoes, 1 teaspoon salt 

diced I teaspoon pepper 

5 cup (1 gill) scalded green I teaspoon paprika 

peppers, diced 1 cup (| pt.) gravy 

1 eggplant, grilled 

Mix meat with potatoes, peppers, seasonings, and gravy left 
from roast — more gravy may be added if liked — and heat 
carefully. Serve on a hot platter covered with slices of nicely 
grilled eggplant. 

Macaroni Ragoiit 

i package macaroni 4 tablespoons (1 oz.) flour 

1 cup (j lb.) cold cooked meat 1 cup (^ pt.) milk 
^ cup (2 ozs.) grated cheese 1 teaspoon salt 

2 tablespoons (1 oz.) drippings | teaspoon pepper 

Boil macaroni in plenty of boiling salted water mitil tender, 
drain and cut it into lengths of two inches ; put it into a saucepan 
with the meat cut in strips, and add seasonings and reheat. 

Melt drippings in another pan, add flour, stir until smooth, 
season to taste, add milk and cheese, bring to the boil and simmer 
eight minutes. Pile macaroni on a hot dish and pour over sauce. 
Garnish with pieces of buttered toast. Serve hot. 

Meat and Rice Balls 

1| cups (6 ozs.) chopped cooked i teaspoon paprika 

meat 2 eggs, beaten 

1 cup (7 ozs.) cooked rice I cup (1 oz.) bread crumbs 

1 small onion, grated Hot fat 

In a bowl mix meat, rice, onion, paprika, one of the eggs, and 
bread crumbs, make into small balls with floured hands, roll in 
remaining egg, toss in bread crumbs, and fry in smoking hot fat. 
Drain and serve hot. 

Meat and Spaghetti au Gratin 

2 cups (8 ozs.) cooked meat, 2 tomatoes, sliced 

chopped 1 teaspoon salt 

I package spaghetti I teaspoon pepper 

1 cup (^ pt.) brown or white j teaspoon paprika 

sauce I cup (1 oz.) bread crumbs 



COLD MEAT COOKERY 239 

Boil spaghetti in plenty of boiling salted water until quite 
tender, then drain and cut in small pieces. Grease a fireproof 
dish, put in meat, sauce, spaghetti, tomatoes, and seasonings, 
cover with bread crumbs, dot with butter substitute, and bake in 
moderate oven until well browned and well cooked, about three 
fourths of an hour. Serve hot. 

Meat and Turnip Croquettes 

1 cup (I lb.) cold meat, chopped 1 cup (4 ozs.) bread crumbs 

1 onion, chopped ^ teaspoon salt 

2 cups (1 pt.) cooked mashed | teaspoon pepper 
turnips 1 egg, beaten 

Mix meat with onion, turnips, bread crumbs, seasonings, and 
egg. Form into neat croquettes, roll in fine bread crumbs, dip 
in milk or beaten egg diluted with cold water, roll again in 
crumbs, and fry in plenty of smoking hot fat. Drain on paper 
and serve hot, garnished with parsley. 

Meat Chartreuse 

2 cups (I lb.) cooked meat 1 cup (4 ozs.) bread crumbs 

1 teaspoon salt 4 tablespoons (2 ozs.) drippings 

I teaspoon pepper 1 cup (| pt.) stock or water 

1 tablespoon chopped onion 1 egg, beaten 

2 cups (14 ozs.) boiled rice 

Into a bowl put meat, seasonings, onion, crumbs, drippings, 
stock, and egg. Line greased mold with one cup of the rice, pour 
in mixture, cover with remaining rice, cover with greased paper, 
and steam one hour. Turn out on hot platter and serve with hot 
tomato sauce. 

Meat Fritters 

Thin slices cold cooked meat Salt and pepper to taste 

1 teaspoon Worcestershire sauce 1 egg, beaten 
1 tablespoon vinegar 1 cup (4 ozs.) flour 

Milk 

Pour vinegar into deep plate, add sauce and seasonings, and 
lay meat in this mixture. Mix flour with egg and enough milk 



240 ECONOMICAL COOKERY 

to make it a fairly stiff batter. Beat well and set aside twenty 
minutes. Dip slices of meat into this batter and fry, a few at a 
time, in plenty of smoking hot fat. Drain and serve hot. 

Meat Souffle 

1 tfblespoon (| oz.) butter sub- \ teaspoon pepper 

stitute I tablespoon chopped parsley 

1 tablespoon flour I teaspoon onion juice 

1 cup (^ pt.) milk 2 eggs, separated 

1 teaspoon salt 1 cup (j lb.) cold meat, chopped 

Melt butter substitute, stir in flour, add milk, and stir until 
smooth, add seasonings, and cook one minute. Take from fire, 
stir in beaten yolks of eggs, and meat. Stir over fire until eggs 
have thickened a little and set aside to cool. Rub a little butter 
over the top. Beat up whites of eggs to a stiff froth and stir 
them lightly into cold mixture. Turn into greased fireproof 
dish and bake in moderate oven twenty minutes. Serve at once. 

Meat with Onion and Hard-Cooked Eggs 

2 onions, sliced 3 tablespoons grated cheese 

1 cup (I pt.) white or brown I cup (1 oz.) bread crumbs 
sauce 2 hard-cooked eggs, chopped 

2 cups (8 ozs.) cold cooked meat. Parsley 
chopped 

Boil onions in boiling salted water fifteen minutes, then drain. 
Put them into a saucepan with sauce and let simmer five min- 
utes, add meat, cheese, salt, and pepper to taste, and allow to heat 
thoroughly, but do not boil again. Pour mixture into greased 
fireproof dish, sprinkle over with crumbs and eggs, dot with 
butter substitute and brown in oven. Garnish with parsley and 
serve hot. 

Potted Cooked Meat 

2 cups (§ lb.) cooked meat Salt and pepper 

6 sHces cooked bacon or Grated nutmeg 

2 tablespoons (1 oz.) butter ^ bouillon cube 

Small amount meat gravy 

Weigh meat after fat and gristle have been removed. Cut 
meat and bacon into dice ; then chop them well and pound them 



COLD MEAT COOKERY 241 

until they have become a smooth paste. If bacon is not handy, 
divide butter into small pieces and pound these into meat. Add 
seasonings, a little of each at a time, being careful that thej^ are 
well distributed. It is difficult to give the exact quantities of 
seasonings, for tastes differ, and the potted meat maker must use 
discretion in this matter. A little gravy or meat jelly improves 
the pulp, but it must be remembered that moist meat turns sour 
very quickly. 

When seasonings have been worked into the paste, place it in 
a small jar, cover with a saucer, and stand in a saucepan half full 
of boiling water. As soon as the meat is heated through, lift 
out the jar, stir until contents are cold, and press into shallow 
jars, smoothing the top with a wet knife. If for immediate use 
the meat need not be covered, but a layer of clarified butter or 
melted mutton fat will preserve it for several days. 

Potted Salmon 

2 cups (^ lb.) cooked salmon 1 teaspoon vinegar 

4 tablespoons (2 ozs.) butter, 1 teaspoon salt 

melted | teaspoon pepper 

1 teaspoon anchovy essence | teaspoon powdered mace 

I teaspoon red pepper 

Remove all skin and bones from salmon and put it into a bowl 
or mortar, add three tablespoons of the butter, anchovy, vinegar, 
and seasonings. Pound until smooth and then rub it through a 
sieve. Pack mixture into small jars or pots, and run remaining 
butter over the top. This paste makes delicious sandwiches, 
especially if used with salad or a slice of cucumber or tomato. 

Any kind of cooked fish may be potted in the same way. 

Steamed Salt Fish Mold 

2 cups (^ lb.) cooked salt fish 1 cup (^ pt.) milk, hot 
6 potatoes, boiled and mashed 2 eggs, separated 

2 tablespoons (1 oz.) butter sub- I teaspoon pepper 
stitute I teaspoon paprika 

Flake fish and mix with potatoes, add butter substitute, milk 
and yolk of eggs slightly beaten ; season with salt if needed and 
add paprika, pepper, and whites of eggs stiffly beaten. Mix well, 



242 ECONOMICAL COOKERY 

and pour into a greased mold, cover with a greased paper and 
steam steadily thirty minutes. Turn out and serve hot. 

Scalloped Ham 

3 large slices cooked ham ^ teaspoon salt 

4 potatoes, sliced | teaspoon pepper 
1 carrot, chopped 1 tablespoon flour 

1 onion, chopped 2 cups (1 pt.) milk 

2 tablespoons (1 oz.) butter sub- ^ tablespoon parsley, chopped 
stitute 

Uncooked ham can be used equally well. Cut ham into large 
squares. Mix potatoes, carrot, and onion with flour and parsley. 
Spread butter substitute in a fireproof dish. Put vegetables, 
ham, and seasonings into dish in layers. Pour over milk, and 
bake in moderate oven until vegetables are tender. Serve hot. 



CHAPTER XXI 
HREAKFAST, LUNCHEON, AND SUPPER DISHES 

'' The true essentials of a feast are only fun and feed." 

Baked Finnan Haddie 

1 finnan haddie § teaspoon made mustard 

1 cup (I lb.) cheese, grated ^ teaspoon paprika 

4 tablespoons milk 1 egg, beaten 

Wash haddie and boil it in boiling water for eight minutes, 
then skin and cut it into small pieces. Place these in a well- 
greased fireproof dish and keep hot. Place cheese in a small 
saucepan, with milk and seasonings, and stir over fire until 
mixture is smooth, add egg, and pour over fish. Sprinkle over 
two teaspoons of brown bread crumbs and bake until brown. 
Serve hot. 

Baked Liver 

1 pound fiver 1 onion, chopped 

J pound bacon, cut in pieces 1 teaspoon chopped parsley 

1 cup (4 ozs.) bread crumbs 2 cold potatoes, sliced 

1 teaspoon powdered herbs 2 tablespoons (1 oz.) drippings 

1 cup (^ pt.) water or stock 

Wash liver well and cut it into thin slices. Put a layer of 
this at bottom of greased baking dish. Mix together bacon, 
bread crumbs, herbs, onion, and parsley. Spread layer of this 
mixture over liver, and repeat the layers alternately until 
ingredients are used up. Pour in water, then put in layer of 
potatoes, dot here and there with drippings, and bake in moderate 
oven one hour. Serve hot. 

243 



244 ECONOMICAL COOKERY 

Baked Marrow Pudding 

Slices bread 2 eggs, beaten 

Marrow, chopped i cup (1| ozs.) brown sugar 

1 cup (^ lb.) seeded raisins ^ teaspoon powdered nutmeg 

2 cups (1 pt.) milk 

Cut some stale bread, freed from crust, into thin slices, and 
line the bottom of a greased fireproof dish with them. Over 
this put a layer of marrow, sprinkle over with raisins, then 
laj^er of bread, and continue until dish is nearly filled. Beat 
eggs with sugar, add nutmeg and milk, pour this slowly over 
ingredients, and bake in a moderate oven for fifty minutes. 
Serve hot with hot milk. 

Celery and Oysters 

1 cup (^ pt.) celery, chopped 1 tablespoon (| oz.) butter 

2 cups (1 pt.) oysters § lemon 

I teaspoon salt 4 tablespoons thick cream 

I teaspoon pepper Buttered toast 

Cook celery in oyster liquor; if not sufficient add a little 
water. Add seasonings, butter, and strained lemon juice. 
When celery is transparent, add oysters and cook until edges 
curl, then add cream and serve on toast in a heated glass bell. 

Cheese and Potato Puffs 

1 cup (I pt.) boiled mashed 1 egg, beaten 

potatoes ^ teaspoon salt 

^ cup (1 gill) hot milk ^ teaspoon paprika 

1 cup (4 ozs.) grated cheese 

Beat up potatoes with milk until thoroughly mixed, add egg 
and seasonings, and beat well together. Finally add cheese. 
Divide into greased gem pans, bake fifteen minutes, and serve 
very hot. 

Cheese and Potato Savory 

7 or 8 potatoes 4 tablespoons hot milk 

1 cup ll lb.) grated cheese i teaspoon pepper 

1 tablespoon (I oz.) butter sub- ^ teaspoon salt 

stitute 1 egg, beaten 



BREAKFAST, LUNCHEON, AND SUPPER DISHES 245 

Boil potatoes, drain, and mash them. Add to them cheese, 
butter substitute, milk, seasonings, and egg ; turn into a greased 
fireproof dish and smooth over with a knife or spoon. Bake in a 
quick oven fifteen minutes and serve hot. 

Cheese Custard 

2 eggs, beaten | teaspoon paprika 

I teaspoon mustard 1 pinch red pepper 

1 teaspoon salt 2 cups (1 pt.) milk, hot 

i teaspoon pepper 1 cup (I lb.) grated cheese 

Beat eggs with seasonings, pour over milk, stirrmg all the time, 
then add cheese and pour into a greased pudding dish, sprinkle a 
little cheese over top, and bake in a moderate oven thirty-five 
minutes. Serve hot with toast or crackers, or serve with hot 
tomato sauce. 

Cornish Pasties 

2 cups (^ lb.) barley flour ^ pound steak, diced 

2 cups (^ lb.) flour 1 onion, chopped 

1 cup (^ lb.) butter substitute 2 potatoes, diced 
1 teaspoon salt ^ teaspoon pepper 

Cold water 

Mix meat, potatoes, onion, and seasonings and add four 
tablespoons water. Into a bowl sift flours and salt, cut and rub 
in butter substitute, and make into stiff paste with cold water. 
Roll out one fourth inch thick on a baking board, cut into squares 
six inches across, place some of meat mixture in center of each 
piece of pastry, wet edges with cold water, fold over, and press 
together. Place on greased baking tins and bake in moderate 
oven three fourths of an hour. Serve hot. 

Another Method. Take a few slices cold cooked meat, one 
slice onion, salt and pepper to taste, one skinned tomato, two or 
three cooked potatoes, and some pastry. Roll pastry out into 
large rounds; chop meat, onion, and tomato together, season 
to taste, and place in centers of pasties; mash potatoes and 
pile them on top ; fasten edges of pastry together on top, and 
bake in hot oven twenty minutes. Make a small hole in top of 
each pasty, pour in a little good gravy, and return to oven for a 
few minutes. Serve hot. 



246 ECONOMICAL COOKERY 

A Chicken Pasty is made of chopped cooked chicken with 
sHces of hard-cooked eggs, flavored with salt, pepper, and parsley. 

In Cornwall clotted cream is used for moistening the contents, 
and the result is delicious. 

Bacon and Potato Pasty is made from slices of parboiled pota- 
toes and cold fat bacon; or, potatoes and odds and ends of 
cooked ham or tongue moistened with milk and seasoned with 
salt and pepper may be used. 

Onion Pasty is made in much the same way, except that 
sliced onions or shallots are substituted for the bacon. 

Apple Pasty is made with raw apples — a soft cooking kind is 
the best. Peel, core, and slice them and sprinkle slices thickly 
with brown sugar. No water is necessary for this pasty, as 
juice of apples gives all that will be required. 

Deviled Kidneys 

3 sheep's kidneys § teaspoon salt 

2 tablespoons (1 oz.) butter sub- | teaspoon mustard 

stitute ^ cup (1 gill) stock or water 

1 onion, chopped 1 teaspoon lemon juice 

1 teaspoon curry powder 1 egg, beaten 

Bread crumbs 

Split kidneys and cut them in small pieces, removing white 
center and skin. Melt butter substitute in saucepan, add onion 
and fry a few minutes, then add kidney and seasonings, mix well 
and pour in stock. Cover and cook slowly thirty minutes, 
draw pan to one side, and stir in egg. Fill greased individual 
dishes with mixture, sprinkle over crumbs, and dot with butter 
substitute. Brown them in a hot oven and serve hot. 

Farina Cakes with Cheese 

1 cup (3 ozs.) farina 2 eggs, separated 

2 cups (I lb.) cheese Bread crumbs 

1 teaspoon salt 1 cup (f pt.) milk 

^ teaspoon pepper 2 tablespoons (1 oz.) butter sub- 

1 bay leaf stitute 

Put milk into a saucepan, add bay leaf and butter substitute ; 
when it boils stir in farina and let it cook ten minutes, stirring 



BREAKFAST, LUNCHEON, AND SUPPER DISHES 247 

all the time. Add seasonings, yolks of eggs, and one tablespoon 
of the cheese grated, stir over the fire until it thickens, turn out 
on a plate, and allow to cool. Cut cheese into rounds about 
three fourths inch in diameter. When mixture is cold, stamp 
out rounds same size as the cheese ; fasten four rounds of the 
latter with alternate rounds of cheese on a skewer, and proceed 
thus until all the mixture and cheese is used up. Beat up whites 
of eggs, add a little water, dip each prepared roll in the egg, 
cover with bread crumbs, and fry in smoking hot fat to a golden 
brown. Drain and remove skewers. Garnish with parsley 
and serve hot. 

Fish Rarebit 

1 tablespoon (| oz.) butter 1 cup (^ pt.) milk 

I teaspoon onion juice | cup (3 ozs.) chopped cheese 

1 tablespoon cornstarch 1 cup (4 ozs.) cold cooked fish 

I teaspoon salt 1 egg, beaten 

^ teaspoon paprika I tablespoon lemon juice 

Crackers or toast 

Melt butter, add onion juice, coi'nste.rch, and seasonings. 
Pour on gradually milk, add cheese and fish, and stir carefully 
over fire. When cheese is melted, add egg and lemon juice. 
Serve very hot on crackers or toast. 

Fresh Herring Pie 

3 fresh herrings 1 tablespoon chopped onion 

Browned bread crumbs 4 tablespoons (2 ozs.) butter sub- 

3 tomatoes, skinned and sliced stitute 

1 tablespoon chopped parsley Salt and pepper 

1 cup (I pt.) stock or water 

Split open herrings, take out backbones, and remove heads. 
Cut each fish into three or four pieces. Grease a fireproof dish 
and coat it well with browned crumbs; then put in layer of 
fish, next one of tomatoes, and on these sprinkle parsley, onion, 
salt, pepper, and a few crumbs. Then another layer of fish and 
so on, until dish is full. Pour in stock or water and cover top 
thickly with crumbs. Dot with butter substitute and bake in 
moderate oven thirty minutes. 



248 ECONOMICAL COOKERY 



Haddock and Tomatoes 

1 haddock, fresh or dried 2 large tomatoes, skinned and 

1 cup (2 ozs.) rice shced 

2 tablespoons (1 oz.) butter sub- 1 teaspoon chopped onion 
stitutc ^ tablespoon chopped parsley 

^ teaspoon salt | teaspoon pepper 

Wash fish and cook it in a hot oven or over fire five minutes. 
Then remove bones and dark skin. Cook rice in plenty of boiling 
salted water until tender. Drain off water and wash rice by 
pouring over it some boiling water. Melt butter substitute in 
saucepan, put in onion, and fry a light yellow, add tomatoes and 
fish. Simmer fifteen minutes, or until all ingredients seem well 
cooked. Season to taste. Put rice on one side of hot platter 
and fish mixture on other side, sprinkle with parsley, and serve 
hot. 

Ham Breakfast Loaf 

3 cups (f lb.) bread crumbs | cup (3^ ozs.) boiled rice 

1 tablespoon onion juice 1 tablespoon chopped parsley 

1 egg, beaten 1 teaspoon salt 

2 cups (8 ozs.) chopped ham ^ teaspoon pepper 

1 tablespoon Worcestershire | cup (1 gill) white sauce 

sauce 

Mix bread crumbs, onion, egg, ham, Worcestershire sauce, 
rice, parsley, seasonings, and sauce. Press it into greased 
mold, bake in moderate oven forty minutes. Serve hot. 

This may be served cold, cut in slices, or dipped in beaten egg 
and bread crumbs, fried, and served hot. 

Ham Patties and Eggs 

^ cup (2 ozs.) chopped cooked I teaspoon salt 

ham I teaspoon pepper 

I oup (2 ozs.) bread crumbs ^ cup (1 gill) milk 

1 teaspoon chopped parsley Eggs 

1 tablespoon (^ oz.) butter 

Mix ham with bread crumbs, add seasonings, and milk. Form 
into nests, break an egg into each, sprmkle with bread crumbs, 
dot with butter, and bake in moderate oven until white of egg 
is firm. Serve hot. If liked, a little mustard may be added. 



BREAKFAST, LUNCHEON, AND SUPPER DISHES 249 

Marrow Bones 

Marrow bones Flour and water pastry- 

Hot toasted bread 

Many consider marrow bones a great delicacy. They may 
be either boiled or baked. If the latter, the bones are merely 
sawn into pieces about six inches long, the ends covered with a 
piece of paste made of flour and water — this is to prevent the 
marrow from melting out — and baked in a moderate oven in 
a deep dish for two hours. 

If boiled, cut bones in six-inch lengths, cover ends with flour 
and water paste, then tie up each bone in a small floured cloth ; 
stand bones upright in pan of fast boiling water, taking care to 
see that water covers them. Boil them two hours, then remove 
cloths and paste. Whether baked or boiled, have ready some 
neat squares of toasted bread, then either place a bone on each 
piece, having first pinned a clean table napkin around it; or 
spread marrow on toast, sprinkle it with salt, pepper, and a little 
chopped parsley. This must be done very quickly, as this dish 
will be considered a failure unless it is thoroughly hot. 

Minced Steak Pie 

1 pound lean steak, minced 1 egg, beaten 

1 teaspoon salt | cup (1 gill) milk 

^ teaspoon paprika I cup (2 ozs.) butter substitute 

J teaspoon celery salt 1 cup (4 ozs.) flour 

Cold water 

Mix steak with seasonings, egg, and milk and turn into a 
fireproof dish. Cut and rub butter substitute into flour, add 
one fourth teaspoon salt and sufficient water to make a stiff, 
smooth paste. Roll out, place on top of meat, brush over with 
milk, and bake in moderate oven thirty minutes. Serve hot 
with any preferred vegetable. 

Noodles with Cheese 

2 cups (^ lb.) flour ^ cup (1 gifl) hot white sauce 

1 tablespoon (^ oz.) butter 2 tablespoons grated cheese 

1 egg, beaten I teaspoon pepper 

J teaspoon salt i teaspoon nutmeg 



250 ECONOMICAL COOKERY 

Sift flour into a bowl, add butter and rub it in, add egg, salt, 
and^enough cold water to make a very stiff paste. Roll out 
very thin, fold it and then cut fine, and let it stand loose two 
hours. Sprinkle these noodles into fast boiling salted water and 
cook ten minutes ; drain and reheat in a little melted drippings. 
Add sauce, cheese, and seasonings and turn into greased fireproof 
dish. Sprinkle over with grated cheese and a few browned 
bread crumbs, and pour over a little melted butter substitute 
on top. Bake until hot and serve at once. 



Salt Codfish Balls 

1 cup (i lb.) salt codfish ^ teaspoon pepper 

2 cups (1 pt.) boiling water 3 tablespoons (1^ ozs.) butter 

3 cups (H pts.) hot mashed 3 tablespoons cream 
potatoes 1 egg, beaten 

5 teaspoon salt Bread or cracker crumbs 

Pick up codfish, put it into a saucepan, and pour over boiling 
water. Bring to boiling point and simmer fifteen minutes. 
Drain thoroughly. Have potatoes ready, add to them season- 
ings, butter, cream, and codfish. Form into balls or small cakes, 
dip in egg, and toss in crumbs. Fry in plenty of smoking hot 
fat and serve hot with corn bread. 



Sardines with Sauce 

1 can sardines 1 teaspoon vinegar 

^ cup (1 gill) brown sauce 4 tablespoons milk 

J cup (11 ozs.) Sultana raisins | teaspoon salt 
I teaspoon made mustard j teaspoon pepper 

Fried bread slices 



Take sardines from can, scrape them carefully, remove bones, 
and heat sardines in oil from can. Warm sauce in small saucepan, 
add raisins, mustard, vinegar, milk, and seasonings ; make very 
hot, but do not boil. Cut bread shape of sardines, place on 
hot dish, then place a sardine on each, pour over sauce, and serve 
hot for luncheon. 



BREAKFAST, LUNCHEON, AND SUPPER DISHES 251 

Sausages in Potatoes 

1 pound pork sausages 1 egg, separated 

2 cups (1 pt.) mashed potatoes ^ teaspoon salt 

1 tablespoon milk i teaspoon pepper 

Grilled tomatoes 

Parboil sausages ten minutes, then, when they are cool, 
skin and cut them in halves lengthwise. Beat up potatoes with 
milk and egg yolk, then season carefully and reheat. Lightly 
flour a baking board, take a small piece of potato, flatten it, and 
lay a piece of sausage on it. Fold over potato to hide sausage, 
smoothing it with a knife dipped in flour. Roll croquettes thus 
obtained in bread crumbs, brush with white of egg beaten to a 
stiff froth, and cover a second time with crumbs. Fry in plenty 
of smoking hot fat, drain, and serve hot with tomatoes. 

Sausage Loaf with Brown Sauce 

1 pound pork sausages 3 tablespoons milk or cream 

1 cup (i lb.) bread crumbs 2 teaspoons chopped parsley 

1 egg, beaten ^ teaspoon salt 

3 tablespoons chopped bacon or I teaspoon pepper 
ham Browned bread crumbs 

Brown sauce 

Grease a mold and dust it over with the browned bread crumbs. 
Skin sausages, put meat into a bowl, add bread crumbs, bacon, 
egg, milk, parsley, and seasonings. Mix well and place in 
prepared mold. Cover with greased paper, stand mold in 
baking tin, pour in a little boiling water, and bake in moderate 
oven thirty minutes. Turn out and serve with hot brown sauce. 

Savory Potatoes 

5 cups (2^ pts.) chopped cold 2 tablespoons finely chopped 
boiled potatoes parsley 

2 tablespoons finely chopped 2 teaspoons salt 
onion ^ teaspoon pepper 

2 tablespoons chopped pimen- 3 tablespoons (H ozs.) butter 
toes (canned red peppers) substitute 

Into a bowl put potatoes, add onion, pimentoes, parsley, 
seasonings, and butter substitute. Turn into hot frying pan, 



2)2 ECONOMICAL COOKERY 

spiead evenly, cook slowly until well browned underneath. 
Fold and turn like an omelet and serve hot. The pimentoes 
may be omitted. 

Tomatoes with Cheese 

3 tomatoes 1 egg, beaten 

I cup (2 ozs.) grated cheese 1 cup (4 ozs.) bread crumbs 

1 tablespoon (^ oz.) butter sub- 1 teaspoon salt 
stitute ^ teaspoon pepper 

Toast 

Peel tomatoes and cut them into slices; put them into a 
saucepan with butter and cook until soft, add egg and stir until 
mixture is thick, add seasonings, cheese, and crumbs. Serve 
hot on buttered toast. This makes a tasty supper or luncheon 
dish. Or the mixture may be put into small jars, covered with 
melted butter, and used for sandwiches. 

Tripe, Parisienne Style 

1 pound tripe, diced 1 can tomatoes 

2 medium-sized onions, sliced fine 1 clove garlic, sliced 
2 green peppers, cut small 1| teaspoons salt 

i teaspoon paprika 

Into saucepan put tripe, add onions, peppers, tomatoes, and 
garlic, mix and cook slowly one hour or longer, taking care the 
mixture does not burn. When tripe is almost ready, add season- 
ings. Serve hot or cold. If eaten cold, it will be found to be a 
thick jelly, a dehcious dish. A little water may be added, but 
no thickening should be used. 



CHAPTER XXII 
VEGETARIAN DISHES 

" Give us a taste of your quality." 

Before making vegetarian dishes it is necessary to know some- 
thing about the kinds of food required by the body, and whether 
the vegetable dishes we are going to substitute for meat will 
supply these needs. The body, to be kept in health, requires food 
containing the following elements : 

1 . Proteids, or flesh-forming substances, which build up the 
body and repair waste in the tissues. Too little of these in the 
food causes debility and wasting; and excess gives rise to 
rheumatism, gout, and kidney trouble. 

2. Carbohydrates (starches and sugars), the energy producers, 
giving capacity for work to the muscles and organs. Too little 
causes a condition in which the proteids or flesh formers are 
diverted from their work of repairing waste in order to supply 
energy, and wasting results. Too much of these foodstuffs 
causes clogging of the body and the formation of adipose tissue. 

3. Fats, which give heat. A suflicient quantity is very 
necessary, but an excess causes dyspepsia and biliousness. 

4. Salts and vegetable acids, which purify the blood. Too 
little causes irritation, " heated " blood, and various skin 
diseases. 

5. Water, a very necessary element essential to form the 
medium in which all the other foodstuffs are dissolved and made 
able to be absorbed ; to keep the tissues moist, the saliva flowing, 
and the other glands and excretions in working order. All food 
contains a certain amount of water, in various proportions accord- 
ing to its character, but plain water to drink is necessary as well. 

253 



254 ECONOMICAL COOKERY 

Vegetables contain these principles of food necessary for the 
body, but on a purely vegetable diet it is a difficult matter to 
get them in the right proportions, as usually there is an excess 
of the sugars and starches. 

When such animal foods as milk, butter, cheese, and eggs are 
permitted, a perfectly balanced diet can be planned, and these 
foods are used by all but the strictest vegetarians, because they 
are not flesh foods, and, therefore, are permissible from the 
humanitarian point of view. 

The difficulty with most people is to know how much of the 
necessary elements are contained in various foods, or how much 
is needed to keep the body in health. 

As a rough guide to the amount, a man doing ordinary work 
requires about twenty-three ounces of food that is free of water. 
As all food contains an average of fifty to sixty per cent, of water, 
just over double this amount must be allowed to get the full 
amount of nourishment — about forty-eight ounces, or three 
peunds, in twenty-four hours. 

This quantity is subject to various conditions — age, sex, 
climate, the kind of work to be done, and the nature of the food 
chosen. A child naturally needs much less than a man or 
woman ; hot countries require a dietary that differs from that 
suitable for cold climates ; hard manual workers need more food, 
especially those that supply heat and energy, than do sedentary 
workers. Some foods are more concentrated than others — 
contain less water than the average — and go further for their 
weight, such as cheese; some contain a large amount of fat, 
as butter. 

Fresh vegetables and fruits are watery or " bulky ", and supply 
some of the moisture needed by the body. 

All these considerations modify the actual amount, but within 
a little, about forty-eight ounces of solid food and three pints 
of liquids should be allowed for each adult. 

The food chosen must " balance " well, that is, supply not 
only the quantity but the right kinds of food in correct propor- 
tions; one rich in proteids should be served with others rich 
in the remaining food elements — rice with curry. 

Proteids or flesh formers should form, roughly, about one part 



VEGETARIAN DISHES 255 

to every eight of ordinary solid food containing an average 
amount of water. Thus, in one pound of food the proportions, 
omitting very small fractions, would be about : Proteids one 
and two thirds ounces, fats one ounce, carbohydrates five ounces, 
salts one third ounce, water eight ounces. 



Baked Peanut Pudding 

1 cup (^ lb.) barley 1 cup Q pt.) tomatoes 

1 cup (i lb.) peanuts, chopped 1 egg, beaten 
1 cup (i lb.) bread crumbs 1 teaspoon salt 

1 onion, chopped I teaspoon pepper 

1 tablespoon (| oz.) butter substitute 

Cook barley thirty minutes in boiling salted water, drain, 
and keep liquor for stock. To barley add nuts, bread crumbs, 
onion, tomatoes, egg, and seasonings. Mix well and pour into a 
greased fireproof dish, sprinkle over a few crumbs, dot with 
butter substitute, and bake in moderate oven one hour. Serve 
hot. 



Beans and Potatoes en Casserole 

1 cup (^ pt.) cooked beans 1 cup (| pt.) white sauce 
6 cooked potatoes | teaspoon salt 

2 onions, sliced I teaspoon pepper 

4 tablespoons (2 ozs.) butter sub- 3 tablespoons hot milk 
stitute 

Rub one half of potatoes through a sieve, add two tablespoons 
of the butter substitute, seasonings, and milk, and heat thor- 
oughly over the fire. Grease a fireproof dish and line sides and 
bottom with potato mixture. Fry onions in remainder of butter 
substitute until they are a golden brown color. Place layer of 
beans in prepared dish, then layer onions, add seasonings, cover 
with sauce; repeat layers until dish is full. Cut remaining 
potatoes into thin slices, cover top with these, dot top well with 
butter substitute, place in oven, and bake until browned. 
Serve hot. 

Peas may be used in place of beans. 



256 ECONOMICAL COOKERY 

Bean Pies 

3 cups (I5 pts.) cooked beans 2 large eggs, beaten 

^ cup (4 ozs.) butter substitute, 1 square chocolate, grated 

melted 1 tablespoon flour 

1 cup (Hb.) sugar or honey Pastry 

Rub beans through a sieve, add butter substitute, sugar, eggs, 
chocolate, and flour. Beat five minutes and divide into two 
pastry-lined pie plates and bake in moderate oven twenty to 
twenty-five minutes. 

Bread Souffle 

2 cups (^ lb.) stale bread | teaspoon salt 

2 eggs, separated | teaspoon pepper 

1 cup (I pt.) tepid water | teaspoon paprika 

^ cup (1 giU) tepid milk 1 tablespoon (^ oz.) butter sub- 

1 cup (4 ozs.) grated cheese stitute 

Cut bread in small pieces, removing crusts. Soak bread in 
water and milk twenty minutes, then drain it, and pound or rub 
through a sieve. Add yolks of eggs, cheese, seasonings, and 
whites of eggs stiffly beaten. Pour into a well-greased fireproof 
dish, sprinkle with grated cheese, dot with butter substitute, 
and bake in moderate oven twenty-five minutes. Serve hot. 

Carrot and Rice Croquettes 

2 cups (1 pt.) boiled carrots 2 eggs, beaten 
2 cups (14 ozs.) boiled rice 1 teaspoon salt 

2 medium-sized onions, chopped ^ teaspoon pepper 

2 tomatoes, skinned and chopped ^ teaspoon celery salt 

Put carrots through food chopper into a bowl, add rice, onions, 
tomatoes, eggs, and seasonings. Form into neat croquettes, egg 
and bread crumb, fry in smoking hot fat, drain, and serve hot. 

Cheese and Tomato Savory 

1 cup (^ pt.) canned or fresh 1 cup (4 ozs.) cheese, cut small 

tomatoes ^ teaspoon salt 

^ tablespoon chopped onion ^ teaspoon paprika 

Toast fingers, buttered 

Stew tomatoes and onion ten minutes, add cheese and cook 
until it is soft, add seasonings, and serve on toast. 



VEGETARIAN DISHES 257 

Cheese and Vermicelli Patties 

1 pound pastry 4 tablespoons grated cheese 
^ cup (4 ozs.) vermicelli i teaspoon salt 

2 tablespoons (1 oz.) butter or oil | teaspoon pepper 

2 teaspoons flour I teaspoon made mustard 

f cup (1^ gills) milk Brown or tomato sauce 

Roll out pastry very thin and cut it into rounds a little larger 
than tartlet tins to be used. Allow two rounds for each tin. 
Line tins with pastry and let bottom rounds be thinner than top 
ones. Boil vermicelli in plenty of boiling salted water twelve 
minutes. Do not salt water so much that it cannot be used 
afterwards. It is excellent as a foundation for a sauce or soup. 
Drain vermicelli and break it with a fork. Melt butter, stir in 
flour, add milk or vermicelli water, and stir until sauce boils, and 
cook five minutes. Add vermicelli, cheese, and seasonings, and 
mix well. Divide into pastry-lined tins, moisten edges of pastry, 
lay on upper rounds, press together, brush over with milk, and 
bake m hot oven for about twenty minutes. Serve hot with 
tomato or brown sauce, and, if possible, with spinach or some 
other nicely-prepared green vegetable. 

Chestnut Fritters 

24 chestnuts 1 teaspoon salt 

i cup (1 oz.) bread crumbs i teaspoon pepper 

1 tablespoon (| oz.) butter sub- 1 egg, beaten 

stitute Tomato sauce 

Boil chestnuts until tender, then peel and mash well. Add 
bread crumbs, butter substitute, seasonings, and most of the egg. 
Shape into small cakes, brush with remainder of egg, toss in 
browned crumbs, and fry in smoking hot fat. Serve with tomato 
sauce. 

Chestnut Custard 

26 chestnuts I cup (2 ozs.) sugar or honey 

I cup (1 gill) water 2 eggs, beaten 

1 cup (^ pt.) milk, hot 

Wash chestnuts and make a slit in shell of each with a sharp 
knife^ then put them into a saucepan of boiling water ; boil ten 



258 ECONOMICAL COOKERY 

minutes, drain, and peel off both shell and inner skin. Put 
chestnuts thus prepared into a saucepan with the water, and 
cook gently until very soft, then rub them through a sieve. 

Caramel 

3 ounces lump sugar I cup (1 gill) water 

1 teaspoon lemon juice 

Put ingredients for caramel into a small saucepan and allow to 
cook until a light brown color ; pour into a heated mold, turning 
mold round and round until caramel coats it uniformly. Beat 
up eggs with sugar or honey, pour milk over, stirring all the time, 
and allow to cool, then add chestnut puree and pour into prepared 
mold, cover with greased paper, and steam gently one and one 
half hours. Turn out and serve with sweet sauce or stewed fruit. 

Chestnuts are very nourishing and should be eaten as much 
as possible while they are cheap. But to get their full value 
they must be well cooked. 

Curried Vegetables 

3 onions, chopped ^ lemon 

4 tablespoons (2 ozs.) butter 2 cups (1 pt.) stock or water 
substitute 4 cups (1 qt.) cut cooked vege- 

1 tablespoon curry powder or tables 

paste Boiled rice 

1 tablespoon flour 1 pimento, shredded 

1 tablespoon chopped parsley 2 hard-cooked eggs, quartered 

Peel onions and fry them in butter substitute to a nice brown 
color; add curry powder, flour, parsley, strained lemon juice, 
and stock. Simmer twenty minutes, add vegetables, such as 
turnip, peas, carrot, cauliflower, string beans, etc. Mix carefullj^, 
and cook slowly ten minutes. Arrange rice in a border on hot 
platter, put vegetables and sauce in center. Garnish with 
pimento, or lemon slices, and eggs. Serve hot. 

Dried Pea Kedgeree 

1 cup (^ pt.) dried or split peas 1 teaspoon salt 

^ cup ("4 pt.) barley, cooked \ teaspoon pepper 

i cup (2 ozs.) butter substitute 1 hard-cooked egg, chopped 

2 tablespoons tomato pulp Fried onion rings 




Z^Iaukoav Bones ready for the Oven. Page 24O. 




CuRKiKi) Vi;(;ktables. I'ajje 258, 



S^..rj^C^ 




Split Peas axi> Onions, i'age 262. 



.Cabbage axd Ham. Page 303. 




Invalid Dishes. 



VEGETARIAN DISHES 259 

Soak peas overnight in cold water, drain, and place in cold 
salted water to cover; bring to the boil, then simmer until 
peas are tender, then drain. Put peas and barley in greased 
fireproof dish, add butter substitute, tomato pulp, and season- 
ings ; allow to heat in the oven. Serve garnished with egg and 
onion rings. 

Rice may be used in place of the barley. 

Or, add to one cup cooked peas, one chopped onion, three 
tablespoons melted butter substitute or vegetable oil, one half 
teaspoon sugar, one teaspoon salt, one half teaspoon pepper, 
and three tablespoons milk or stock ; allow to heat thoroughly 
and serve hot in a hot vegetable dish. 

Dried peas, like dried beans and lentils, contain a very great 
amount of nourishment; but they must be well cooked, and 
previous soaking is a necessity. 

How to Make and Use Cottage Cheese 

4 quarts skim milk Salt 

This quantity of milk will make about one and one half pounds 
of cheese. Pour milk into a clean saucepan and allow to remain 
in a warm place at a temperature of about 75° F. until it clabbers. 
This will take aboi^t thirty hours, and if the process ha^ to be 
hastened, a small quantity of sour milk may be mixed with the 
sweet milk. As soon as the milk has firmly clabbered, cut it 
into pieces two inches square, then stir curd with a spoon. 
Place pan of curd in a vessel of hot water so as to raise tempera- 
ture to 100° F. Cook at that temperature for about thirty 
minutes, during which time stir gently with a spoon for one 
minute at five-minute intervals. Pour curd and whey into 
cheesecloth bag and hang up to drain'. After ten minutes, work 
curd toward the center with a spoon. Stop draining when whey 
ceases to flow in a steady stream. Now work curd w4th a 
wooden spoon until it becomes fine and smooth in grain. Sour 
or sweet cream may be added to improve flavor. Add one tea- 
spoon salt to every pound of curd. If liked, add a little melted 
butter, form into neat balls, and serve very cold. The balls may 
be rolled in bread crumbs, browned in hot butter, and served hot, 



260 ECONOMICAL COOKERY 

Cottage Cheese Sandwiches Are Excellent. To every cup of 
cheese add two tablespoons cream, one half cup chopped stuffed 
olives, and one fourth cup chopped nut meats. Spread between 
thin shces of bread. 



Jerusalem Artichoke Pudding 

1 cup (^ pt.) artichoke puree 1 teaspoon salt 

1 cup (^ pt.) milk ^ teaspoon pepper 

2 eggs, separated 1 teaspoon grated lemon rind 

Mix artichoke pur^e with milk and beaten yolks of eggs, add 
seasonings, and fold in stiffly beaten whites of eggs. Pour into 
greased pudding dish and bake in moderate oven thirty minutes. 
Serve hot in the same dish. If preferred, the mixture may be 
baked in small molds. 

To prepare the artichoke pur^e. First wash and brush arti- 
chokes, then peel them, and as each one is done, throw it into a 
bowl of clean cold water to which a few drops of vinegar have 
been added. Drain artichokes and throw into a saucepan of 
boiling salted water ; boil with lid on pan until they are tender 
or easily pierced with a skewer. They may be boiled in milk, 
or milk and water, instead of plain water, and this can after- 
wards be used for soup or sauces. Or the artichokes may be 
steamed, but they will require a longer time to cook. Then 
take some of the cooked artichokes, rub through a sieve, and 
measure one cup ; this makes the pur^e. 

Lentil Rolls 

1 cup (i pt.) lentils | teaspoon pepper 

2 cups (^ lb.) bread crumbs I teaspoon powdered nutmeg 
1 teaspoon salt 1 egg, beaten 

Tomato or brown sauce 

Wash lentils and then tie in cloth, leaving room to swell. 
Boil four hours in plenty of water and turn into a bowl, add 
bread crumbs, seasonings, and egg. Form into neat rolls, flour 
well, and fry in smoking hot fat. Drain and serve hot with 
tomato or brown sauce, 



VEGETARIAN DISHES 261 



Macaroni with Sauce 

I lb. macaroni 1 cup (| pt.) tomato sauce 

1 cup (i pt.) brown gravy 1 cup (j lb.) grated cheese 

Boil macaroni in plenty of boiling salted water for three 
fourths of an hour. Drain and put into a saucepan, add gravy 
and sauce. Make very hot, turn into a hot dish, sprinkle 
cheese over top, and serve at once. 

Oatmeal and Apple Pudding 

1 cup (3 ozs.) fine oatmeal j cup (1| ozs.) brown sugar 

^ cup (2 ozs.) flour or potato 1 teaspoon grated lemon rind 

flour 2 tablespoons cream 

1 teaspoon salt l^ cups (| pt.) stewed apples 
2^ cups (If pts.) milk Honey or sirup 

Mix together oatmeal, flour, salt, and one half cup of the 
milk. Into a saucepan pour remainder of milk, add sugar and 
lemon rind ; bring to boiling point and stir in oatmeal mixture. 
Continue to stir until it boils, then simmer ten minutes. Stir 
in cream. Pour half of mixture into greased fireproof dish, 
next put in apples, then pour in remainder of mixture. Bake 
in moderate oven thirty minutes. Serve hot, with honey or 
sirup. 

Okra with Corn and Tomatoes 

2 cups (1 pt.) okra, sliced 1 tablespoon (| oz.) butter sub- 
2 cups (1 pt.) corn, cut from cob stitute 

1 cup (I pt.) milk or w^ater 1 onion, chopped 

2 teaspoons flour 1 teaspoon salt 

2 cups (1 pt.) tomatoes, sliced | teaspoon pepper 

Wash and remove stem ends of okra pods, cut into thin slices, 
and fry ten minutes in butter substitute; add corn, milk, or 
water mixed with flour, tomatoes, onion, and seasonings. Mix 
well and pour into greased pudding dish and bake in moderate 
oven thirty minutes. Serve hot. 

Potted Beans 

1 cup (I pt.) beans ^ teaspoon pepper 

1 teaspoon salt 2 tablespoons (1 oz.) butter 

^ teaspoon powdered nutmeg 



262 ECONOMICAL COOKERY 

Soak beans overnight in cold water, pour off water, pick them, 
and put into a saucepan covered with water. Let them cook 
in the oven six hours. Strain off liquid and keep it for stock, 
then mash or pound beans, add seasonings and butter. Put 
into small pots or jars and cover with clarified butter. 

This mixture makes a fine sandwich filling. 

Savory Lentils 

4 cups (1 qt.) lentils 1 tablespoon chopped parsley 

4 tablespoons (2 ozs.) butter sub- 2 cups (1 pt.) gravy or stock 

stitute 1 teaspoon salt 

1 small onion, chopped ^ teaspoon pepper 

Wash and soak lentils overnight, then drain them. Melt 
butter substitute in a saucepan, put in lentils, onion, seasonings, 
parsley, and stock, and cook gently with lid on pan until lentils 
are a soft mass. Take off lid and stir over fire until any liquid 
not already absorbed by lentils has evaporated. Beat well 
together, heap it in a hot dish, and serve at once. 

Savory Nut Loaf 

1 cup (j lb.) chopped nut meats 2 teaspoons butter 

1 cup (7 ozs.) hot boiled rice 1 tablespoon chopped parsley 

1 cup (^ pt.) mashed potatoes 2 tablespoons bread crumbs 

2 eggs, beaten 1 teaspoon salt 

1 lemon, grated | teaspoon pepper 

1 onion, chopped I teaspoon paprika 

2 tablespoons (1 oz.) lard, melted 

Mix in a bowl nuts, rice, potatoes, eggs, grated lemon rind, 
onion, butter, parsley, bread crumbs, and seasonings ; mold 
into a loaf, put into greased pan, pour over lard, and bake in a 
moderate oven forty minutes. 

Split Peas and Onions 

1 cup (^ pt.) split or dried peas 4 tablespoons stock or water 
Salt and pepper to taste 2 tablespoons (1 oz.) butter sub- 

3 cloves stitute 

1 bunch herbs 1 teaspoon brown sugar 

4 cooked and sliced onions 



VEGETARIAN DISHES 263 

The dried peas make a very good winter vegetable when 
fresh peas are not obtainable. Soak overnight in cold water, 
then drain and rinse them in fresh cold water. Put peas in 
saucepan, cover well with cold water, and bring slowly to the 
boil; add cloves and herbs and continue cooking three hours. 
More water must be added from time to time if peas become too 
dry. Drain and return peas to saucepan, add stock, butter 
substitute, seasonings, and sugar; mix well, pour into center 
of hot dish, and arrange onions cut in rings on top. 

Sweet Potato and Nut Croquettes 

6 large sweet potatoes 1 egg, beaten 

1 teaspoon salt | cup (1 oz.) blanched and 

2 tablespoons (1 oz.) butter chopped almonds 

3 tablespoons hot cream 

Wash potatoes and bake until tender. Scoop out pulp and 
force through a ricer into a bowl. Add salt, butter, egg, almonds, 
and cream. Mix and mold into balls. Roll in fine bread crumbs, 
brush over with beaten egg or milk, and again in bread crumbs. 
Fry in smoking hot fat and drain on paper. Serve hot. 

Succotash 

2 cups (1 pt.) cooked beans 1 cup (| pt.) cooked or canned 

2 tablespoons (1 oz.) butter sub- corn 

stitute 1 teaspoon salt 

I teaspoon pepper 

To prepare beans, soak overnight two cups Lima beans, drain, 
smd add boiling water to well cover and cook until tender; 
add seasonings, butter substitute, and allow to reheat. Serve 
hot. 

To prepare corn, remove silk but not husks until it is to be 
boiled. Place corn in saucepan of boiling water, not salted, 
cover pan to prevent steam escaping. Do not use a large 
quantity of water and boil fifteen minutes; drain and cut 
corn from cob. 

Corn may be served on cob with salt, pepper, and butter. 



264 ECONOMICAL COOKERY 



Vegetable Pie 

^ package macaroni, cooked 3 tomatoes, skinned and sliced 

1 large onion 3 tablespoons bread crumbs 

1 carrot 1 tablespoon chopped parsley 

3 stalks celery Vegetable stock or gravy 

1 cup (I pt.) green peas Salt and pepper to taste 

Pastry 

Cut macaroni into short lengths. Cut onion, carrot, and 
celery into small cubes and boil until tender in boiling salted 
water. Drain and mix them with macaroni, tomatoes, bread 
crumbs, parsley, and seasonings. Moisten well with stock or 
gravy, or the water in which vegetables have been boiled. Turn 
mixture into a greased fireproof dish and cover neatly with 
pastry. Bake in a moderate oven thirty minutes, or until 
pastry is cooked. 

If pastry is not convenient, cover top of pie with mashed 
potatoes, or with thin slices of tomato, or with a layer of bread 
crumbs and tiny bits of butter. 

The vegetables may be varied with the season. 



Vegetarian Roast 

1 cup (I pt.) soy beans 2 eggs, beaten 

1 pound spaghetti, cooked 1 cup (4 ozs.) chopped coconut 

2 onions, chopped 1 teaspoon chopped parsley 
2 tablespoons (1 oz.) butter sub- ^ teaspoon celery salt 

stitute J teaspoon pepper 

1 cup (4 ozs.) bread crumbs 

Soak beans twelve hours. Cover with boiling water and cook 
three hours. Drain and put them through a food chopper, add 
bread crumbs, onions cooked in butter substitute, eggs, coconut, 
parsley, and seasonings. Mix well and press into a well-greased 
tin. Bake in moderate oven one hour, basting frequently. 
This is nice served with brown gravy hot from the oven ; but 
it is also good cold cut into slices like meat and eaten with 
salad, or pickled beets. Any kind of nuts may take the place 
of the coconut. 



VEGETARIAN DISHES 265 

Vermicelli with Tomato Sauce 

1 package vermicelli, crushed 3 tablespoons grated cheese 

2 tablespoons (1 oz.) butter sub- 1 teaspoon salt 
stitute h teaspoon paprika 

1 cup (I pt.) tomato sauce I teaspoon pepper 

Fingers fried bread 

Boil vermicelli in plenty of boiling salted water fifteen minutes, 
then drain. Melt butter substitute in a saucepan, and when hot 
put in vermicelli, tomato sauce, cheese, and seasonings; stir 
over the fire until cheese is melted, cook gently five minutes, then 
turn out on to a hot dish, garnish with bread, and serve very 
hot. 



CHAPTER XXIII 
INVALID COOKERY 

" Whate'er is best administer'd is best." 

The preparation and cooking of food for invalids deserves far 
greater attention than is usually bestowed. Not only should 
the amount and quality vary according to the nature of the 
disease, but every little detail in its subsequent arrangement 
and serving is of vast importance to sick people, the aim in 
invalid meals comprising not only the due repair of wasted 
tissues, but the aesthetic value of appearances in the invalid's 
capricious eye. 

Apart from the special diets appointed by medical men in such 
cases as diabetes, gout, corpulence, and similar diseases, an 
invalid approaching the convalescence stage from any other 
direction is usually permitted a fairly wide latitude in the ques- 
tion of food. But even then restrictions must always be com- 
plied with: First, the food should be of a really nourishmg, 
or, at any rate, refreshing nature ; and, second, it must be pre- 
sented in easily digestible form. 

Apple Custards 

1 cup (^ pt.) apple pulp 2 tablespoons (1 oz.) butter, 

1 cup (I pt.) milk melted 

4 tablespoons (2 ozs.) sugar 2 eggs, beaten 

Few preserved cherries 

Prepare apple pulp by rubbing stewed or baked apples through 
a sieve. Mix purde with milk, sugar, butter, and eggs. Divide 
into four greased fireproof dishes and bake in moderate oven 

266 



INVALID COOKERY 267 

twenty minutes. Decorate with cherries cut in halves and 
serve hot or cold. Other fruit purees may be used in the same 
way. 

Baked Fish 

1 filleted flounder, fresh haddock, 2 tablespoons (1 oz.) butter sub- 

or whiting stitute 

Salt and pepper | lemon 

Grease a plate, and lay fish on it with skin side upwards. Put 
it in the oven five minutes, and then you will be able to pull the 
skin off quite easily. 

Melt butter substitute in a flat dish, lay fish on it, and put 
dish into brisk oven eight to ten minutes, according to thickness 
of fish. 

Baste fish twice in the course of cooking. Take out, sprinkle 
it with salt and pepper, and squeeze juice of lemon over. Serve 
hot. 

Baked Smelts 

4 smelts ^ cup (1 gill) stock 

Lemon slices 

Clean smelts and cut off heads. Place them in buttered fire- 
proof dish with stock and salt and pepper to taste. Cover with 
lid and cook twenty minutes. Serve in same dish garnished 
with lemon slices. 

Barley Water 

3 tablespoons (2 ozs.) pearl 1 tablespoon (I oz.) sugar 

barley 1 lemon 

2 cups (1 pt.) boiling water 

Wash barley in several waters, put it with sugar and lemon 
rind into a pitcher, pour water over, and keep infusion covered 
as tightly as possible. When cold, strain and serve. This is 
thin barley water. 

Thick Barley Water. Proceed in the same way, but allow 
barley to simmer in three cups water for at least one hour. Then 
strain and serve. The barley can be used a second time, but it 
is then not so nourishing. 



268 ECONOMICAL COOKERY 

Barley water is often mixed with milk, the lemon in this case 
being omitted. This is considered a very light and nourishing 
drink, and having no decided taste, is usually a favorite with 
invalids. 

To Serve Barleij Water with Fruit. Make one cup thick barley 
water, flavor it with one teaspoon lemon juice, add two table- 
spoons sugar or honey, and one tablespoon gelatine dissolved in 
one half cup hot water, and stir over fire for a few minutes. Pour 
into a wet ring mold, and when firm turn out and put stewed 
fruit or preserves in center, and serve. 

Beef Tea 

Steak Water 

1 pinch salt 

Buy the best steak. Take a sharp pointed knife, and holding 
it closely by the pointed end, shred meat fine, and mix it with an 
equal quantity of cold water in an earthenware jar or dish. Heat 
of any kind coagulates the juices, and if possible the water 
should be soft as well as cold. Add salt, which will help in ex- 
tracting the juices more quickly from the meat. Cover jar, and 
set away in a cool place overnight. 

Place jar at bottom of moderately hot oven, where it must 
remain from one to three hours, according to amount. Two 
cups of beef tea usually take two hours to cook slowly through. 
The oven should remain at the same temperature throughout the 
cooking. The best test is by the color of tea when removed from 
oven. It should be of a rich, brown color, with no red or raw 
traces. The substance is usually strained from the liquor, 
though in cases where an invalid is able and allowed to digest it, 
a portion of the meat particles may be permitted to pa^ through. 
Some substance will always pass through even the finest strainer, 
but if the beef tea be cooked satisfactorily, this substance should 
not easily separate nor sink to bottom of cup. 

All suspicion of fat globules must be removed from surface 
with pieces of grease-proof paper, and if the tea appears to be 
greasy even after this application, it will be found safer to leave 
it to get cold, and then remove all fat after it has solidified. 
Serve tea piping hot with dry toast cut in dice. 



INVALID COOKERY 269 

Brains in Batter 

2 sets brains 2 egg yolks 

Salt, pepper, vinegar 1 egg white 

1 onion, sliced 1 tablespoon (| oz.) butter, 

I carrot, sliced melted 

1 bay leaf 4 tablespoons milk or cream 

^ cup (2 ozs.) flour Chopped parsley 

This recipe will do equally well for calf's, sheep's, or pig's 
brains. The first is considered the best, but the other two may 
be used with good results. Soak brains in salted cold water 
several hours, changing water occasionally. Now put them in 
a pan with boiling water, add onion, carrot, salt, bay leaf, and a 
little salt and vinegar. Cook gently twenty minutes. Drain 
and cut into convenient sized pieces. Beat up egg yolks, add 
flour, butter, a very little salt and pepper, and beat well ; then 
add milk and white of egg beaten stiff. Have ready a pan of 
smoking hot fat, dip each piece of brain into batter, drop it into 
fat, and fry it a golden brown. Drain and serve hot, sprinkled 
with parsley. 

Chicken Broth 

1 small chicken 1 crust bread 

1 blade mace 6 cups (3 pts.) water 

1 sprig parsley Toasted bread squares 

Skin and chop up a small chicken or half a large fowl, put it 
into a saucepan, add mace, parsley, crusts of bread, and water, 
and simmer two hours. Strain and serve with toasted bread 
squares. 

Another Method. Divide one chicken into joints, put it into 
a saucepan with six cups water, one fourth teaspoon peppercorns, 
pinch of salt, and one tablespoon pearl barley ; bring slowly to the 
boil, and skim thoroughly ; simmer very slowly two hours, strain 
and serve. 

Cream of Chicken for Diabetics 

1 cup (4 ozs.) raw chicken meat 1 egg 

5 tablespoons whipping cream Salt and white pepper 



270 ECONOMICAL COOKERY 

A diabetic patient is allowed plenty of cream, butter, eggs, 
bacon, ham, meat, poultry, fish, cheese, nuts, and green vege- 
tables. The chief point is to remember that all sugar and foods 
which supply sugar must be avoided. Starch and starchy foods 
are changed into sugar during digestion, therefore they too must 
be abstained from. 

Saccharin must be used in place of sugar, but this must be 
added with care, for too much of it gives quite a disagreeable 
flavor. 

Put chicken through food chopper, then pound it ; while 
doing so, add to it egg and seasonings. Rub mixture through 
a sieve. Whip cream and stir it in lightly. Pour into a 
buttered mold, cover with buttered paper, and steam gently 
until it is just firm. It will take about thirty minutes. Turn 
out on to a hot dish and pour cream sauce over it. 

Cream Sauce 

I cup (1 gill) white stock 2 eggs, beaten 

^ cup (1 gill) cream 

Boil stock, then let it cool for a minute. Beat up eggs, mix 
them with cream, then strain both into stock, stirring over fire 
until it is hot ; do not let it boil. Season carefully and it is 
ready. 

Evaporated Milk Jelly 

2| tablespoons (f oz.) powdered 2 cups (1 pt.) hot water 

gelatine 6 tablespoons sugar 

1 cup (5 pt.) cold water 1 teaspoon vanilla extract 
8 tablespoons evaporated milk 1 teaspoon lemon extract 

Mix gelatine with cold water and dissolve over hot water. 
Put milk and hot water into upper pan of a double boiler, add 
sugar, and bring to boiling point, then add dissolved gelatine 
and extracts. Strain into a wet mold and place in refrigerator 
overnight. Turn out and serve with milk or custard. 

Invalid Soup 

2 teaspoons sago 1 cup (| pt.) strong beef tea or 
2 egg yolks mutton broth 

Salt and pepper 



INVALID COOKERY 271 

Boil sago until it is clear in a small quantity of boiling water. 
Make beef tea hot, then add drained sago. Beat up yolks and 
strain them into soup ; reheat it carefully, but on no account let 
it boil. Season to taste and serve very hot. 

/ Irish Moss Pudding 

1 ounce Irish moss 4 tablespoons (2 ozs.) sugar 

4 cups (1 qt.) milk | teaspoon vanilla extract 

Wash moss thoroughly in warm water. Put it into an 
enameled pan with milk, place over a gentle heat, and stir con- 
stantly till it boils, then strain through a hot strainer, add sugar 
and extract. When sugar is dissolved, pour into a wet mold. 
Turn out when firm and serve with milk. Wine may be added 
if wished. 

Irish moss is a seaweed. Its nutritive value is considerable ; 
and, from the amount of mucilage it contains, it is used as a 
remedy in diseases of the chest. It also contains iodine and 
sulphur. 

Nourishing Pudding 

Thin shces stale brown bread Boiled custard or milk 
Stewed fruit, apples, prunes, etc. 

Line buttered bowl evenly with bread. Cut a round of bread 
size of top of bowl. Cut up crusts and some small pieces of 
bread very small. Stand bowl on a plate, then fill it with layers 
of hot stewed fruit and bread, allowing sufficient fruit to com- 
pletely saturate bread. When well filled, put round of bread on 
top, press it well down by placing a plate on top, and leave until 
set. 

To serve hot, stand bowl in oven twenty minutes to heat, or 
it may be served cold. Turn out of bowl carefully on to a dish. 
Serve with boiled custard or milk. 

Raw Beef Sandwiches 

Raw beef Butter 

Bread Salt and pepper 



272 ECONOMICAL COOKERY 

Shred some raw beef very fine, then spread it on thin sHces of 
buttered bread. Season well. Place another piece of bread on 
top. Cut into dainty squares, or stamp into rounds and serve. 

Another Method. Shred and pound four ounces of lean, juicy 
beef. Add any seasonings that may be allowed and rub through 
a sieve. Spread between thin slices of lightly buttered bread 
and cut into neat strips. These sandwiches are generally 
ordered for special cases. 

Rice Water 

2 tablespoons rice 3 cups (U pts.) cold water 

Salt 

Wash rice in several waters. Put it into a saucepan, add 
water, soak thirty minutes, then heat gradually to boiling point, 
and cook until rice is soft. Strain, reheat rice water, season to 
taste with salt, and if too thick dilute with a little boiling water. 
Milk may also be added if desired. 

Sago in Gravy 

1 cup (I pt.) gravy or beef tea ^ teaspoon salt 
1 tablespoon sago 5 teaspoon pepper 

Bring gravy to boiling point, sprinkle in sago and stir until it 
boils again, then allow to simmer until it becomes thick and 
transparent; add seasonings. 

It may be served at once as a very thick soup or put into a wet 
mold and allowed to set into a jelly. 

Ground rice may be used in place of sago. It is best eaten hot. 

Stewed Fish 

1 filleted flounder, or haddock ^ cup (1 gill) milk 

2 tablespoons bread crumbs 1 tablespoon butter 
I cup (1 gill) water 1 teaspoon salt 

I teaspoon pepper 

Cut fish into small pieces, then place it in a saucepan, add 
water, milk, and seasonings; put lid on pan and cook fifteen 
miQutes. Lift out fish into a greased fireproof dish and keep 



INVALID COOKERY 273 

it hot. Add bread crumbs and butter to water and milk and 
stir over fire until bread crumbs swell and thicken sauce, pour 
sauce over fish, sprinkle over with a few more bread crumbs, dot 
with butter, and brown in oven. Serve hot. Garnish with 
lemon points. 

Steamed Fish 

1 flounder or sole 1 teaspoon lemon juice 

Parsley or cut lemon 

Take the fillets of flounder or sole, wash and wipe them very 
dry, lay them between two buttered dishes, sprinkle over lemon 
juice, place dishes over a pan of boiling water, and steam twenty 
minutes, until fillets look quite white. Dish and garnish with 
parsley or lemon. White sauce may be served with this, if liked. 
Any kind of fish steak may be cooked in this manner. 

The lemon juice helps to whiten the fillets. 

Strawberry Jam Jelly 

1 cup (I pt.) milk I tablespoon powdered gelatine 

2 tablespoons strawberry jam 

Warm milk but do not let it boil, and dissolve gelatine in it. 
Mix strawberry jam with a few drops of boiling water and rub 
it through a sieve into the milk. Pour all into a wet mold and 
allow it to become firm. 

Spaghetti and Fruit Pudding 

I pound spaghetti 1| cups (f pt.) boiled custard 

1| cups (f pt.) stewed fruit 2 tablespoons finely chopped nut 

meats or coconut 

Break spaghetti into pieces an inch long and boil until tender 
in plenty of boiling salted water. Put stewed fruit into a serving 
dish. When spaghetti is tender, drain well and put it on fruit, 
pour custard over top, and sprinkle nuts or coconut on top. 
Serve hot or cold. 

Steamed Custard 
1 egg 4 tablespoons beef tea or stock 



274 ECONOMICAL COOKERY 

Beat egg, add beef tea, or stock, and more seasoning if re- 
quired. Pour into greased cup, cover with greased paper, and 
steam gently fifteen minutes. Serve hot or cold. 

This custard may be baked instead of steamed. 

Vanilla Sponge Dainties 

1 egg 1 tablespoon milk 

2 drops vanilla extract Sponge cake 

1 teaspoon sugar Honey or preserves 

1 tablespoon (^ oz.) butter 

Beat egg slightly with vanilla, sugar, and milk. Melt butter 
in small saucepan, pour in egg mixture, and stir until it begins to 
thicken, moving spoon so that egg does not stick in the least to 
bottom of pan. Spread slice of sponge cake with honey or jam, 
put egg mixture on top, and serve hot. 



CHAPTER XXIV 
CANDIES 

" With such imitation 
Of form and color 't will deceive the eye 
Until the taste be ravish 'd." 

With the materials found in the cupboard or pantry of the 
average family, delicious and easily made candies may be made, 
which, when used as dessert, are by no means a waste or an 
extravagance. The wise housemother knows that homemade 
sweets have a few advantages over the store kinds. They are 
more wholesome and much cheaper. It takes less to satisfy the 
appetite, as there are no trashy materials in their composition. 
The making of them gives the children a charming vacation task. 

Always select a clear, cold day on which to make candy, as 
many varieties do not turn out as well when made on a damp 
day. This is especially true when making crystallized nuts, 
leaves, and fruits. It is well to have a confectioner's ther- 
mometer for candy making, so that the sirup may be removed 
from the fire at exactly the right degree. 

Successful candy makmg depends upon boiling the sirup to 
the proper degree, a bright day, pure cane sugar, and working 
when properly cooled. 

The following confectioner's terms and their accompanying 
degrees of heat will be found very useful for the inexperienced 
candy maker : 

'' Thread ", 216° to 218° F. 

" Soft Ball ", 240° F. 

" Hard Ball ", 250° to 252° F. 

" Crack ", 290° to 300° F. 

Candies containing milk or molasses will not boil over if the 
top edge of the pan or kettle is greased with butter or butter 

275 



276 ECONOMICAL COOKERY 

substitute. Always pour the sirup (juickly from the pan, never 
allow it to drip, and do not scrape the pan into the batch of candy. 

Many delicious candies have as their basis a cooked fondant. 
With this an almost endless variety of sweets is possible. 
Candied fruits, raisins, dates, figs, prunes, and chopped nut meats 
are all excellent when mixed with fondant. Different flavorings 
and colorings may be added to suit the individual taste. 

Plenty of popcorn should be used in the making of candies, for 
it is both wholesome and nourishing. The Government analysis 
shows that it is 10.7 per cent, protein, 5 per cent, fat, 1.3 per 
cent, mineral matter, and about 78 per cent, carbohydrates, and 
that its energy value per pound is 1S75 calorics, which last is 
proportionately higher than that supplied by any other grain 
except parched hominy. 

Butterscotch Candy 

3 cups (18 ozs.) brown sugar 6 tablespoons (3 ozs.) butter 

1 cup (I pt.) water 1 teaspoon lemon extract 

Put sugar, water, and butter into a saucepan and cook without 
stirring until it snaps when tried in cold water, or reaches 300° by 
candy thermometer ; add extract and pour into greased tins and 
mark into squares. A nice way to use this is to dip marsh- 
mallows in it, or dip nut meats in it. 

Ariother Method. Boil three cups sugar, one half cup water, 
one half cup vinegar, two tablespoons butter without stirring 
until it will snap when tried in cold water ; add one fourth tea- 
spoon soda, one teaspoon lemon extract, and pour into greased 
tins. Mark off into squares when partly cold. 

Buttermilk Candy 

1 cup (6 ozs.) brown sugar 2 tablespoons (1 oz.) butter 

1 cup (I lb.) sugar 1 teaspoon vanilla extract 

1 cup (I pt.) buttermilk | teaspoon lemon extract 

Put into a saucepan sugars, buttermilk, and butter, stir until 
mixture reaches 240° F., or forms a soft ball when tried in cold 
water. Remove from fire, add extracts, and beat until creamy. 
Pour into greased tins and mark into squares when half cold. 



CANDIES 277 

Chocolate Chips 

1 cup (6 ozs.) brown sugar 1 pinch baking soda 

1 cup (I pt.) molasses 1 teaspoon vanilla extract 

2 teaspoons butter Melted sweet chocolate 

Put into a saucepan sugar, molasses, butter, and soda and stir 
until sugar is thoroughly dissolved ; then boil until sirup forms a 
hard ball when tested in cold water, or reaches 254° F. on candy 
thermometer. Remove from fire, add vanilla, and allow to 
cool, then pull to a light brown color. Cut into small squares, 
and, while they are warm, roll with buttered rolling pin into very 
thin strips. When firm dip each strip of taffy into melted 
chocolate. Place on waxed paper to cool and harden. 

Another Method. Put into saucepan one cup molasses, one 
half cup honey, one fourth pound chocolate cut fine, one half cup 
evaporated milk, and two tablespoonfuls butter. Boil, stirring 
all the time, until it forms a hard ball when tested in cold water ; 
add one teaspoon vanilla extract. Pour into greased shallow 
pans, and as it cools, cut into small pieces. 

Chocolate Covering 

f lb. chocolate 

Put chocolate in a bowl in a pan containing warm water over 
gentle heat, stir all the time until chocolate is quite smooth, then 
stand bowl on a table and stir well ; when cooled sufficiently and 
chocolate shows signs of becoming thick, stand bowl in larger 
bowl containing warm water. Dip in centers, take them out 
with fork or dipping fork, and place on a clean sheet of tin, or on 
a marble slab covered with waxed paper, and decorate top with a 
twisted strand of chocolate. They should be dry, bright, and 
glossy. Chocolate covering should be done in a cold, dry room. 
If chocolate sets in bowl, melt again over slow heat, stirring well ; 
but on no account should chocolate become hot, or the chocolates 
will be streaky. If any water gets into the chocolate it will be- 
come thick, and cannot be used for coating purposes; then 
make the mixture into centers, either leaving plain, or adding 
a little extract, chopped nuts, or fruits. 

Balls or squares, or rounds of fondant of various colors and 
flavors, may be dipped into above melted chocolate. 



278 ECONOMICAL COOKERY 

To Make Chocolate Nut Drops 

Chop one half cup nut moats, mix into a httle melted chocolate, 
and drop on to tin sheet in small heaps. When firm they can 
easily be removed from tin. 

Chocolate Peppermints, Ginger, or Dates 

Oil peppermint Dates 

Preserved ginger Fondant 

Melt fondant, add a few drops oil of peppermint ; when cold 
dip in melted chocolate. Cut preserved ginger into squares or 
cubes, then dip in melted chocolate. Stone dates, fill with 
flavored fondant, and coat with chocolate. Preserved cherries 
may also be filled with fondant, then dipped in chocolate. 

Dried Apricot Squares 

1| cups (4 ozs.) dried apricots Confectioner's sugar 
2 teaspoons lemon juice | teaspoon cornstarch 

Granulated sugar 

Soak apricots overnight in cold water, then drain. Cover 
apricots with fresh water, simmer until soft, and rub through a 
sieve. To each one and one half tablespoons pulp, add one 
tablespoon confectioner's sugar, and put both into a saucepan ; 
add lemon juice mixed with cornstarch, and stir over fire until 
paste is smooth and stiff. When cool, roll on a sugared board, 
and cut into rounds or squares, covering each side well with 
sugar. By coloring one half paste with a few drops red or green 
or orange color, alternate layers of different colors may be formed. 
Wrap in waxed paper, and keep in air-tight tins or jars. Dried 
peaches or apples may be used in the same way. 

Everton Candy 

f cup (6 ozs.) butter ^ cup (1 gill) sirup 

2f cups (1 lb.) brown sugar 1 teaspoon lemon extract 

2 tablespoons water 

Melt butter in a saucepan, add sugar, sirup, and water, allow 
sugar to dissolve thoroughly, then boil to 300° F., or until it will 
snap when tried in cold water ; add extract and pour into deep 



CANDIES 279 

greased plate. Mark into bars before quite cold, and, when it 
hardens, wrap each bar in waxed paper, and keep in air-tight tins. 

Fondant 

4 cups (2 lbs.) sugar 4 teaspoons glucose, or 

2 cups (1 pt.) water 1 pinch cream of tartar 

Put sugar and water in a saucepan and dissolve over gentle 
heat, stirring until thoroughly melted; then add glucose or 
cream of tartar, place thermometer in pan, and boil to 240° F., 
or until mixture makes a soft ball when tried in cold water. 
During boiling, brush round sides of pan with clean pastry brush 
dipped in water to prevent crystallization. Remove pan, let it 
stand one minute, then very gently pour sirup into a flat wet 
platter. Sprinkle a little water on top and leave until slightly 
cooled. Then with scraper or knife bring sirup to center of 
platter and work with wooden spoon or spatula till it becomes 
white and opaque. Knead until smooth and free from lumps 
and rub in the hands until creamy. Put it in a jar and keep well 
covered with waxed paper. 

To Mold Fondant. Put two cups fondant into small pan, put 
pan over hot water, heat gently, stirring all the time, add color 
and flavoring to taste, and when liquid pour into dry rubber mats, 
or in starch impressions. When set and quite cold, turn them 
out. 

If the melted fondant is too thick to pour easily, add a few 
drops of simple sirup or warm water. 

Maple fondant and caramel fondant are made in the same way 
as plam fondant. The only difference is the use of maple 
sugar instead of granulated sugar in maple fondant, and that you 
caramelize one cup of the sugar before using when making 
caramel fondant. 

Fruit and Nut Squares 

1 cup {\ lb.) dates, stoned and \ cup (2 ozs.) preserved ginger, 

chopped chopped 

1 cup {\ lb.) figs, chopped 2 cups (^ lb.) nut meats, chopped 

1 cup {\ lb.) seeded raisins 1 teaspoon vanilla extract 

f cup (2 ozs.) coconut, chopped 



280 ECONOMICAL COOKERY 

Mix dates, figs, raisins, and ginger, put them through food 
chopper, and then pack into a small buttered mold. Mix nut 
meats, vanilla, and coconut and put them through food chopper, 
and then pack into a buttered mold. Turn out, cut thin slices 
of the fruit paste and thin slices of the nut paste, put one slice 
of fruit paste between two slices of the nut paste, and cut into 
neat squares. Wrap in waxed paper and keep in air-tight tins. 

Ginger Cream Candy 

1 cup (4 ozs.) preserved ginger 1 tablespoon ginger sirup 
1 egg white 3^ cups (1 lb.) confectioner's 

sugar 

Cut ginger into small neat pieces. Beat up white of egg with 
ginger sirup. Into this stir sifted confectioner's sugar, adding 
it gradually until mixture is sufficiently pliable to be molded into 
balls with fingers. Press a small piece of ginger on each side 
and then set away to harden. 

Honey Fruit Candy 

1 cup (^ pt.) honey 2 cups (| lb.) chopped raisins 

2 cups (1 lb.) sugar 20 (i lb.) shredded marshmallows 
^ cup (1 gill) fruit juice 2 egg whites, beaten 

Boil honey, sugar, and fruit juice without stirring until it 
forms a soft ball when tried in cold water, or reaches 240° F. on 
candy thermometer. Remove from fire and pour on the stiffly 
beaten egg whites; beat until thick, add raisins and marsh- 
mallows, and pour into buttered tins. Cut into squares before 
it hardens. 

Honey Nut Fudge 

1 cup (I lb.) sugar 1 cup (| pt.) honey 

1 cup (6 ozs.) brown sugar 2 tablespoons (1 oz.) butter 

1 cup (i pt.) milk 1 tablespoon vinegar 

1 cup (4 ozs.) chopped nut meats 

'Into saucepan put sugars, add milk and boil until sirup forms 
a soft ball when tried in cold water, or reaches 240° F. by candy 



CANDIES 281 

thermometer. Add honey, and boil again to soft ball stage, 
when drop in butter and add vinegar. Boil up again, add nuts, 
and pour into a greased tin. Cut into squares when firm. 

Lemon Taffy 

2 cups (1 lb.) sugar I cup (4 ozs.) golden sirup 

^ cup (i lb.) butter 1 tablespoon lemon juice 

1 tablespoon cold water 

Put into a saucepan sugar, butter, lemon juice, and water, and 
when melted boil quickly until a little dropped into cold water 
snaps briskly, or registers 300° F. by thermometer. Pour into 
buttered tins, and before it is quite cold, mark into squares. 

Marshmallows 

2 cups (1 lb.) sugar 8 tablespoons lukewarm water 

1 cup (i pt.) water, cold, or fruit 1 teaspoon lemon extract 

juice 1 teaspoon vanilla extract 

1 envelope (| oz.) powdered Cornstarch 

gelatine Powdered sugar 

Dissolve sugar in cold water or fruit juice, then boil until it 
forms hard ball when tried in cold water, or reaches 258° F. on 
candy thermometer. Dissolve gelatine in lukewarm water; 
when sirup is ready, pour it over gelatine, then add extracts and 
beat twenty minutes. Powder deep pan with mixture of three 
teaspoons powdered sugar and one of cornstarch, pour in candy 
and allow to stand one day and one night, then cut into rounds 
or squares and roll in more sugar and cornstarch. Pack between 
layers of waxed paper. 

Molasses Caramels 

1 cup (^ pt.) molasses ^ teaspoon baking soda 

1 cup (6 ozs.) brown sugar § cup (2 ozs.) chopped nut meats 

^ cup {j lb.) butter 1 teaspoon vanilla extract 

Boil molasses, sugar, butter, and soda, stirring all the time until 
it forms a hard ball when tested in cold water, or reaches 252° F. 
on candy thermometer ; add nut meats and vanilla. Pour into 



282 ECONOMICAL COOKERY 

greased tin, mark into squares before it is cold, and wrap in 
waxed paper. 

Another Method. Melt four tablespoons butter in saucepan, 
add one cup milk, one cup brown sugar, and one cup molasses or 
sirup ; boil fom- minutes, add four squares unsweetened melted 
chocolate and one tablespoon coffee. Continue boiling slowly 
without stirring, until hard ball forms in cold water. Pour into 
greased tins and when half cold mark into squares or oblong 
pieces. When cold, cut into pieces, wrap in waxed paper, and 
keep in air-tight boxes. 

Nut Penuche 

2 tablespoons (1 oz.) butter 1 cup (4 ozs.) chopped nut meats 

2 cups (1 lb.) maple sugar, grated ^ cup (2 ozs.) chopped dates 
1 cup (I pt.) evaporated milk 1 teaspoon vanilla extract 

Melt butter in chafing dish, add sugar and milk, and stir until 
sugar is thoroughly dissolved, then boil without stirring to 240° F. 
on candy thermometer, or until a soft ball will form in cold water. 
Remove from fire,'leave undisturbed until cool, add nuts, dates, 
and extract, and stir until sugary. Press quickly into buttered 
tin and mark in neat pieces. Figs may be used instead of dates. 



Nut and Raisin Fudge 

4 tablespoons grated unsweet- 2 tablespoons (1 oz.) butter 

ened chocolate i cup (\ lb.) seeded raisins 

2 cups (1 lb.) sugar ^ cup (2 ozs.) chopped nut meats 

1 cup (I pt.) milk 1 teaspoon vanilla extract 

Mix chocolate with sugar in a saucepan, add milk and butter, 
and stir continually until it forms a soft ball when tried in cold 
water, or reaches 240° F. by thermometer. Remove from fire, 
add raisins, nuts, and vanilla, beat until thick, and pour into a 
buttered pan. Cut into neat squares when cool. 

Another Method. Stir two cups light brown sugar and one 
half cup milk in saucepan, then place pan on fire, add four table- 
spoons butter, pinch of salt, and two squares of unsweetened 
chocolate ; stir all the time and when it hardens in cold water, or 
reaches 250° F. add one teaspoon vanilla extract and remove 



CANDIES 283 

from fire; beat until it begins to thicken, then add one table- 
spoon milk and one half cup chopped nut meats, and beat a few 
seconds longer ; pour into greased pan and when cool mark into 
neat pieces. 

Orange Fondants 

1 pound lump sugar 2 teaspoons glucose, or 

2 oranges 1 pinch cream of tartar 

1 cup {h pt.) water 1 tablespoon orange juice 

Rub lump sugar on orange rinds till all the zest is rubbed off. 
Put orange, sugar, and water into a pan and dissolve, add glucose 
and orange juice, boil to 240° F., or until it makes a soft ball 
when tried in cold water, pour on platter, and work with spatula, 
as described in fondant. When kneaded smooth, return to pan 
and melt down with a little sirup, pour into rubber mat, and 
when cold turn out. When quite dry, the creams may be dipped 
into melted chocolate. 

Lemon fondants are prepared in the same way, using lemons 
instead of oranges. 

Peanut Butter Candy 

2 tablespoons peanut butter 1 cup (^ pt.) milk 

2 cups (1 lb.) sugar or brown 1 cup (I lb.) chopped nut meats 
sugar 1 pinch salt 

1 teaspoon vanilla extract 

Cook peanut butter, sugar, and milk imtil it forms soft ball 
when tried in cold water, or reaches 240° F. on candy thermom- 
eter, stir in nut meats, salt, and extract, remove from fire and 
beat until creamy. Pour into greased pan and when cool mark 
into squares. 

Another Method. Cook one and one half cups brown sugar, 
four tablespoons butter, two tablespoons peanut butter, pinch of 
salt, one cup milk, one tablespoon grated chocolate or cocoa 
until it forms soft ball in cold water. Pour into greased tin and 
when cool mark into squares. 

Peanut Tafify 

4 cups (1 qt.) molasses | teaspoon baking soda 

2 tablespoons (1 oz.) butter 1 cup (i lb.) peanuts, roasted 



284 ECONOMICAL COOKERY 

Pour molasses into a saucepan, add butter, and cook mixture 
until it becomes brittle when dropped into cold water, or reaches 
300° F. by candy thermometer. Then add soda, stir in chopped 
peanuts, and pour into greased pans. Mark in squares. 

Peppermint Milk Drops 

2 cups (1 lb.) sugar 2 tablespoons (1 oz.) butter 

^ cup (1 gill) milk Few drops peppermint extract 

Dissolve sugar in milk in a saucepan and bring to the boil; 
simmer until it forms a hard ball when tested in cold water, or 
reaches 250° F. on candy thermometer. Remove from fire, add 
butter and peppermint, and stir until mixture grains. Pour 
mixture on to a greased tin and mark into small squares. When 
cold cut up and pack in boxes. 

Popcorn Candy 

About 10 cups popcorn 1 cup (^ pt.) maple or corn sirup 

2 tablespoons (1 oz.) butter ^ cup (\ lb.) sugar 

1 teaspoon lemon extract 

Melt butter in a saucepan, add sirup and sugar, and when 
dissolved allow to boil until it registers 300° F. on candy ther- 
mometer, or when tried in cold water it is quite brittle, then add 
extract. Pour mixture over popcorn, shape into balls, then roll 
these in more popcorn until no more will adhere to balls. Keep 
in air-tight boxes. 

Another Method. Boil together one cup honey, one cup brown 
sugar, one tablespoon butter, and one cup water until it forms a 
soft ball when tried in cold water. Put five quarts popcorn into 
a bowl, add one teaspoon vanilla extract, and pour over hot 
sirup. Rub hands with oil, and after stirring candy well, make 
it into small balls. Wrap in waxed paper. To make chocolate 
popcorn balls add one square of unsweetened chocolate to the 
hot sirup. One cup chopped nut meats may be added if liked. 

Raisin Candy 

2 cups (1 lb.) sugar | cup (1 gill) water 

6 tablespoons sirup, golden or 1 egg white, beaten 
corn sirup 1 cup (l lb.) raisins 

1 teaspoon vanilla extract 



CANDIES 285 

Put sugar and water in a saucepan and when it reaches boiling 
point add sirup. Allow to boil again and pour four tablespoons 
of it over egg white. Allow remaining sirup to boil until it forms 
soft ball when tried in cold water, or reaches 240° by candy 
thermometer, then pour over egg mixture and beat until thick, 
add raisins and extract. Turn into greased pan and when cool 
mark into neat pieces. 

Stuffed Dates 

4 pounds dates ^ lemon 

1 cup (i lb.) figs 3 tablespoons sugar or honey 

I cup (2 ozs.) cherries 3 tablespoons apple or quince 

f cup (2 ozs.) nut meats jelly 

J cup (2 ozs.) seeded raisins § teaspoon powdered nutmeg 

Put figs, cherries, nut meats, and raisins through food chopper, 
add grated lemon rind, strained juice of lemon, sugar, or honey, 
apple or quince jelly and nutmeg, and beat well together. Re- 
move stones from dates and fill each with a little of the mixture. 
Press sides together and roll in sugar. Stuffed dates keep well. 

Another Method. Stone a quantity of dates and fill with 
following mixture. Mold some cooked rice or barley with an 
equal amount of flavored fondant, dip in white of egg, and use. 
Fill into dates and roll in sugar and place on waxed paper to 
harden. 

Prunes may be used instead of dates. 

Squash, or Pumpkin, Candy 

1 cup (^ pt.) cooked and sifted 2 tablespoons (1 oz.) butter 

squash or pumpkin 1 orange 

1 cup (^ pt.) corn sirup 1 lemon 

2 cups (1 lb.) sugar I teaspoon powdered nutmeg 

1 cup (I lb.) chopped nut meats 

Put squash, sirup, sugar, butter, grated rinds, and strained 
juices of orange and lemon into a saucepan; stir over a gentle 
heat until it forms a hard ball when tested in cold water, or until 
it reaches 254° F. ; then add nutmeg and nut meats and pour 
into greased tins. When cool, mark off into squares. 



286 ECONOMICAL COOKERY 



Trench Fudge 

2 cups (1 lb.) sugar 1 cup (4 ozs.) chopped nuts or 

1 cup (^ pt.) evaporated milk almonds 

6 tablespoons water 4 tablespoons cocoa 

2 tablespoons (1 oz.) butter 1 teaspoon vanilla extract 

1 teaspoon lemon extract 

Put sugar, three fourths cup of the evaporated milk, and 
water into a saucepan, and stir until boiling; add butter and 
boil without stirring until it forms a soft ball when tried in 
cold water, or 240° F. by thermometer. Remove from fire, 
and pour, one half into a bowl, add nuts and lemon extract and 
beat until creamy, then pour into a buttered pan. To other half 
add cocoa and remainder of evaporated milk and allow to heat ; 
add vanilla and beat imtil creamy, then pour over nut mixture. 
Cut into squares when cold. 

Turkish Delight 

1 envelope (f oz.) powdered ^ cup (1 gill) fruit juice, boiling 
gelatine 1 orange 

^ cup (1 gill) hot water 1 lemon 

2 cups (1 lb.) sugar 1 cup (i lb.) chopped nut meats 

Few drops red color 

Dissolve gelatine in hot water. Boil sugar and fruit juice 
ten minutes, add dissolved gelatine and cook ten minutes, add 
grated rinds and strained juice of orange and lemon, stir well, 
and add nut meats and color. Pour into a wet pan and allow 
to stand overnight in refrigerator. Cut in squares or cubes, 
roll in powdered sugar, and keep in air-tight boxes. If liked, 
a few chopped preserved cherries may be added to mixture. 



]MAKiN(r Caxhv with aid of Thermometer. Pcifje 275. 







:4 



\ 






r -^ 



m 




..^-~~~ 



Assorted Candies. 



\ 




^"-^ 






k 



11^ 






^, 



For Tk klino Time 



^^ I 




Apple and Orange Marmalade. Page 28S. 



CHAPTER XXV 
PRESERVING AND PICKLING 

" When the time comes the latest fruits also ripen." 

For preserving use the best sugar and avoid that of a bluish 
cast. The utensils used should be kettles, colanders, and ladles 
of porcelain-lined or granite ware, spoons of wood or silver, 
earthenware bowls, and glass tumblers. The jelly bag may be 
made of felt, thin flannel, coarse linen, or fine cheesecloth. It 
is better shaped like a cone, with strong tapes run around the 
neck for suspending it to drip. Do not squeeze the dripping 
fruit. The boiling sirup may be poured directly into glasses 
without danger of their cracking if they are rolled in hot water 
and then left standing on a damp cloth. A silver spoon left in 
the glass will also prevent cracking, as the silver is a good con- 
ductor of heat. The jelly should be allowed to remain un- 
disturbed, as moving about is apt to disturb the process of 
solidifying. 

In making jelly it must be borne in mind that the less stirring 
the better. If stirred too much, the jelly will not be clear, while 
the tendency of sugar to granulate is also increased by stirring. 

A good test for the consistency of jelly when boiling is when 
two drops form on the edge of a spoon held side wise. 

In the case of most fruits, canning with a little sugar is to be 
preferred to canning with a large quantity of sugar. There are, 
however, some fruits that are only good when preserved with a 
great deal of sugar. Of course, such preparations of fruit are 
desirable only for occasional use. The fruits best adapted for 
preserving are strawberries, sour cherries, sour plums, and 
quinces. Such rich preparations should be put up in small 
glasses or jars. 

The method of canning fruit has superseded that of preserving. 

287 



288 ECONOMICAL COOKERY 

This is due not only to the fact that it is more economical, 
requiring less or no sugar, but because many tastes prefer fruit 
which is not too highly sweetened. Fruits for canning should 
be solid and not overripe. 

Vegetables should be as fresh as possible. Fruits canned 
without the use of sugar will require the addition of sugar when 
served and will probably take more of it in the end, but the 
products will keep just as well when canned in water as in sirup, 
if twenty per cent, is added to the time requirement for sterili- 
zation. Use jars of clear white glass. Wide-mouthed jars are 
better than narrow-mouthed ones, because the fruits may be 
put in place so easily. Good rubbers are also essential. These 
should stretch and come back into position and be bent sharply 
back and forth without cracking or breaking. Label the jars and 
store them in a cool, dry place. 

Drying fruits and vegetables is an important adjunct to 
canning. Practically all vegetables and fruits may be dried. 

Pickles are classed in two general ways — sweet and sour. For 
the latter pure cider vinegar is always used, while for the former, 
any good pure vinegar answers admirably. 

Pickles are like all other preserves ; the best materials alone 
should be used, the vegetables chosen should be sound, ripe, but 
not overripe, and freshly gathered on a dry, and if possible warm 
day. 

Metal spoons and copper pans must be carefully avoided ; un- 
glazed stoneware is the safest for anything connected with vine- 
gar, and clean, wooden spoons only should be used. The brine 
in which pickles are to be stored should be strong enough to float 
an egg. Two cups coarse salt to four quarts water is the usual 
proportion. 

Apple and Orange Marmalade 

Apples Water 

Oranges Sugar or maple sugar 

Lemon juice 

Use an equal amount of apples and oranges. To prepare 
apples, wash and cut into eighths without paring. Cover with 
cold water and cook until tender. Drain through a jelly bag, 
pressing out juice. 



PRESEUVING AND PICKLING 289 

To prepare oranges, wash them well. Remove the peel in 
quarters and cook until soft in boiling water. Strain and remove 
part of white from peel by scraping with a knife or spoon. Cut 
thin yellow rind into strips, using scissors. Sterilize jars in 
boiling water. Break orange pulp into small pieces, removing 
tough membranes if necessary. Combine this pulp with apple 
juice and add an equal amount of sugar, peel, and tablespoon 
of lemon juice. Cook until thick. Divide into jars and cover. 

Apple Butter 

4 quarts (1 gal.) apples, pared 2 cups (1 pt.) boiled cider 

and sliced 1 teaspoon powdered cinnamon 

1 cup (14 ozs.) molasses ^ teaspoon powdered nutmeg 

^ teaspoon powdered mace 

Use cooking apples, put them into preserving kettle with 
molasses, cider, and spices, and cook slowly until reduced to 
about one fifth the original quantity of apples. Store in closely 
covered crock and set in a cool, dark place. 

Banana and Pear Jam 

6 pounds bananas 2 oranges 

2 lemons 2 pounds ripe pears 

5 pounds lump sugar 

Peel bananas, cut them into dice, and weigh them. Into 
preserving pan put strained lemon and orange juices, pears 
peeled and diced, and one pound of the sugar. Bring to boiling 
point, then add gradually bananas and remainder of sugar; 
stir gently; skim carefully and cook one hour. Divide into 
jars and seal. 

Barberry Jelly 

Barberries Water 

Sugar 

Barberries need touching with the frost to give the jelly the 
dark crimson color and '' tang " that make it so acceptable. 
Free berries from stems, wash, and allow to every two quarts 
of berries one half cup water. Cook until juice will press out 



290 ECONOMICAL COOKERY 

easily, take from fire, mash well, strain, and measure juice. To 
each pint juice use one pound sugar, which, as for all jellies, 
should be heated in the oven with door open, while juice is 
cooking. Boil juice twenty mmutcs, add sugar, cook three or 
four minutes longer, and turn into glasses, and cover. 

Barberries combine well with apples, pears, or raisins. They 
are often put up with the latter, using one pound raisins to every 
five pounds of fruit, and one pound sugar to one pound of the 
whole. With apples allow twelve sour apples to each four 
quarts of berries. A cluster of barberries dropped in vinegar 
makes an effective garnish for meat or game. 

Blackberry and Apple Jelly 

5 pounds blackberries 5 pounds apples 

10 cups (5 lbs.) sugar or honey 

Put required amount of blackberries into preserving pan, 
place in upper pan of double boiler, cover, and cook until 
berries are perfectly soft. Now strain juice. 

Wash, core, and cut up required amount of acid and juicy 
apples, put them into preserving pan with sufficient water to keep 
from burning. Cover with lid, boil slowly until quite soft, and 
strain thi'ough hot jelly bag. Use equal quantities blackberry 
juice, apple juice, and sugar. Pour strained juice into porcelain- 
lined pan and boil twent}^ minutes. Heat sugar, add it to boiling 
juice, and stir with wooden spoon until sugar is dissolved, then 
allow to boil again five minutes. Pour into sterilized glasses 
and seal. 

A good recipe for jelly is to mash fruit desired with a potato 
masher, add two cups of water, and boil five minutes. Strain, 
add two more cups water, and two cups maple or white sugar to 
every pint of liquid. Boil three minutes and skim well. 

Black Currant Jam 

Black currants Sugar 

Pick and weigh fruit, and to each pound of fruit allow three 
fourths pound of sugar. Bring the fruit very gently to the boil, 



PRESERVING AND PICKLING 291 

add the sugar a little at a time, bring once more to the boil, and 
boil fast twelve minutes. 

Pour into sterilized jars, cover while hot. Let the jars stand 
without being moved until quite cold. 

Canned Apples, Cold Pack Method 

Apples Salted cold water 

Hot sirup 

Canning by cold pack method is not difficult. Wash jars and 
rubbers and test rubbers for quality. Set empty jars and rubbers 
in pan of water to heat to boiling point and boil ten minutes. 
Fill a wash boiler to cover jars two inches with water and heat 
this water. Pare, core, and slice sound apples, and drop them 
into slightly salted cold water. Put apples into wire basket or 
piece of cheesecloth and dip for one and one half minutes into 
plenty of boiling water. Plunge immediately into cold water and 
then pack into hot jars. Fill up jars with hot sirup or boiling 
water; put rubbers and tops in position and partially tighten 
tops. Place jars on rack in wash boiler and submerge them two 
inches. Place cover on boiler and let water boil twenty minutes. 
Lift out jars and make tops air-tight. Invert jars to discover 
leaks. If leaks are found, change rubbers and boil again five 
minutes. 

To Make Sirup. Put three quarts sugar into a saucepan, add 
three quarts water, and boil until sugar is thoroughly dissolved. 
Skim off impurities and keep sirup hot. 

Carrot Marmalade 

12 large carrots, grated 3 lemons 

Sugar 1 orange 

Measure carrots and allow one cup to one cup of sugar ; mix 
and let stand overnight. In morning add strained lemon and 
orange juices and cook slowly one hour. 

If liked, one teaspoon each of cinnamon, cloves, and allspice 
may be added. Divide into glasses and cover. 



292 ECONOMICAL COOKERY 

Dried Peaches or Apples 

Apples or peaches 

Pare and core apples, then slice or cut them in quarters. 
They dry faster when sliced, as more surface is exposed. Steam 
pieces of apples three minutes. Now spread them on a drier 
and dr}^ until leathery and tough, and when pressed between 
fingers no soft places can be detected. This requires, on a hot- 
air drier, on a good drying day, about three hours at 180° F. One 
peck of apples at one time may be dried on three oven racks. 

Tliis recipe will answer for peaches, apricots, and pears. 

A hot-air drier is a commercial device, and hot-air drying can 
be recommended as the best method for drying fruits and 
vegetables. A slow oven may also be used for drying. 

To Dry Pears. Pare, core, and slice pears into rings. To 
prevent discoloration, dip fruit as it is prepared into cold water 
with one ounce of salt to each gallon of water. Place in a 
colander and set over pan of hot water ; place cover on pan and 
steam ten minutes. Dry fruit between clean towels or in sun, to 
remove surface moisture ; spread on plates or trays and dry in 
sun, or in oven, over stove or before an electric fan until pears 
are tough and leathery. Stir from time to time, so they will 
dry evenly. Store in cloth or paper bags or in tight pasteboard 
boxes. All dried products should be examined occasionally, 
and upon the first appearance of insects they should be spread 
in thin layers in the sun until insects disappear, then heated to a 
temperature of 160° F. and stored again. 

Elderberry and Apple Jelly 

8 cups (4 pts.) elderberries 4 pounds cooking apples 

4 cups (2 pts.) water Lump sugar 

Stalk elderberries, place them in preserving pan with water, 
and let simmer slowly one hour. Quarter and core but do not 
pare apples, mix with elderberries, and cook more quickly until 
apples begin to break. Strain through hot jelly bag, measure 
resulting juice into clean preserving pan, and, after adding to 



PRESERVING AND PICKLING 293 

each pint from one pound to one and one fourth pounds of heated 
lump sugar, according to degree of sweetness liked, boil gently 
until jelly stiffens when tested. 

Golden Marmalade 

8 cups (2 qts.) rhubarb 3 oranges 

1 pineapple Sugar 

Wash and dry rhubarb, cut in small pieces, and cook fifteen 
minutes. Put pineapple and oranges through food chopper, 
add them, and cook fifteen minutes. Measure mixture and 
add same amount of sugar. Boil twenty minutes and seal in 
glasses. 

Orange and Pineapple Marmalade 

4 oranges 1 lemon 

1 pineapple 11 cups (5^ pts.) water 

8 cups (4 lbs.) sugar 

Slice oranges and lemon very thin and chop pineapple not too 
fine. Pour over water, cover, and stand aside twenty-four 
hours; then boil slowly one hour, after which add sugar and 
stand aside again twenty-four hours. Then boil from one hour 
and twenty minutes to one and one half hours. Pour into glasses 
and seal. 

Orange Marmalade 

8 oranges 24 cups (6 qts.) water 

4 lemons 22 cups (11 lbs.) sugar, heated 

Wash and dry oranges and lemons, slice very thin, picking 
out seeds. Add water and let stand thirty-six hours. Turn 
into a preserving pan and cook steadily one hour. Now add 
sugar and boil slowly until it jellies when tested on a plate. 
Pour into glasses and cover. This marmalade is excellent. 

Preserved Strawberries 

4 cups (2 lbs.) sugar, scant 1 cup (f pt.) water 

2 1 pounds strawberries 

Bring sugar and water to boiling point and skim. Add straw- 
berries, which have been washed, capped, and stemmed. Boil 



294 ECONOMICAL COOKERY 

fruit until sirup is about as thick as molasses or reaches 220° F. 
on candy thermometer. Remove scum from preserves. Fill 
sterilized jars with hot berries ; pour in enough hot sirup to fill 
jar, leaving as little air space as possible. Put sterilized rings 
and caps on at once, but do not fasten tightly. Stand sealed 
jars in tepid water up to their necks, and bring this water to a 
boil. Let pint jars stay in the boiling water fifteen minutes, 
and quart jars twenty-five minutes, then close caps tightly at 
once. 

Rhubarb Marmalade 

Rhubarb, chopped Lemon juice 

Oranges Sugar 

Orange peel, grated Almonds, blanched and chopped 

To one cup of rhubarb add pulp and juice of one orange, one 
teaspoon grated orange rind, one tablespoon lemon juice, and 
one and one half cups sugar. Let mixture stand until sugar is 
dissolved. Boil quickly until transparent, then add one cup 
almonds. Boil up once more, pour into glasses, and seal. 

Sugarless Jam 

1 package stoned dates 2 cups (^ lb.) preserved ginger 

6 cups (14 ozs.) dried apricots 5 cups (2| pts.) water 

Wash apricots thoroughly and soak overnight in the water; 
add dates and ginger cut in pieces and cook slowly until dates 
are soft. Seal in jars. 

Three-fruit Marmalade 

1 large orange 1 heavy, juicy grapefruit 

1 large lemon Sugar 

Water 

This marmalade is delicious, and this amount will make ten 
glasses. Wash fruit and run it through a food chopper, using 
the coarser blade, and saving all juice. Measure juice and 
fruit and add three times its quantity of water. Let it stand 
for thirty hours, then cook thirty minutes. Cool and measure, 
then add an equal amount of sugar. Let mixture stand again 



PRESERVING AND PICKLING 295 

in a cool place twenty-four hours, then simmer until thick. 
Divide into glasses and seal with melted parafiin. 

Tomato Marmalade 

Ripe tomatoes Lemon juice 

Sugar 

Cut up desired quantity of tomatoes and add small amount of 
water. Cook until quite soft, then strain through fine sieve, 
allowing no skin or seeds to pass through. Boil this pulp fifteen 
minutes and add one cup of sugar for each cup of pulp. Boil 
this mixture until as thick as desired. The addition of the 
juice of one lemon to every ten cups of the marmalade will give 
a decidedly rich flavor. Add strained lemon juice while boiling. 
Divide marmalade into jelly tumblers and cover. 

Canned Fish 
Cod, salmon, haddock, or halibut Brine 

Be sure that fish is very fresh, then clean and remove bones. 
Make strong salt and water brine and place cleaned fish in this 
thirty minutes. Drain from brine, cut into convenient sized 
pieces, and pack with skin towards outside in clean jars. Put 
rubbers and tops in position lightly, and sterilize in a water- 
seal canner, or in a hot-water canner three hours. When canning 
by steam pressure, sterilize two and one half hours under five 
poimds, or one and one half hours under fifteen pounds of 
pressure. 

Another Method. Parboil the fish, then cool and pack in clean 
glass jars, adjust rubbers and tops, partially seal, and sterilize 
in a hot- water bath four hours. Entirely seal and store ia 
cool place. 

Canned Green or Red Peppers 
Green or red peppers Water 

Thoroughly wash large sweet peppers, green or red; cut off 
the tops, remove all seeds, pack in glass jars, then fill with cold 
water and screw the tops on loosely, wathout the rubbers. Then 
put a rack in bottom of boiler and set jars on board. Fill boiler 



296 ECONOMICAL COOKERY 

halfway to top of jars, place over fire, and cook three fourths of 
an hour after water begins to boil. Then remove tops and if 
peppers have settled, take contents of one or more jars and fill 
others, add boiling water mitil jars overflow, put on rubbers, 
screw tops on tight, and boil five minutes ; remove from fire and 
allow to cool in boiler. 

Another Method. Remove seeds from green or red peppers 
and soak in brme two hours and fifteen minutes; then boil in 
unsalted water until tender. Pack tightly in small sterilized 
jars and cover with boiling sirup made of one cup brown sugar 
and one half cup vinegar. Seal. 

Chili Sauce 

20 tomatoes 3 cups (1| pts.) vinegar 

12 onions I cup (2 ozs.) salt 

6 red peppers 3 teaspoons powdered ginger 

6 green peppers 3 teaspoons powdered cloves 

1 cup (6 ozs.) brown sugar 1 teaspoon powdered cinnamon 

Peel tomatoes and onions and remove seeds and cores from 
peppers. Chop all very fine or put through food chopper, add 
sugar, vinegar, salt, and spices, and cook in a preserving kettle 
until sauce becomes thick. Pour into sterilized jars and seal 
at once. 

Another Method. Mix seven cups vinegar, two chopped 
red peppers, two chopped green peppers, one teaspoon allspice, 
one half teaspoon each mace, ginger, cloves, and cinnamon, one 
teaspoon black pepper, two ounces mustard seeds, one teaspoon 
celery seeds, one chopped clove garlic, two cups chopped celery, 
one half cup salt, one and one half cups chopped onions, one 
half teaspoon turmeric powder, and one peck chopped ripe 
tomatoes. When well blended divide into jars and seal ; allow 
jars to stand upside down overnight. Do not cook. 

Cucumber Relish 

12 large cucumbers 1 cup (Hb.) sugar or honey 

4 large green peppers 1 tablespoon mustard seeds 

4 large onions 1 teaspoon celery seeds 

^ cup (4 ozs.) salt ^ teaspoon powdered mace 

1 cup (I pt.) horse-radish Cold vinegar 



PRESERVING AND PICKLING 297 

Peel and seed cucumbers ; put them through a food chopper 
with peppers and onions, add salt, mix well, and let stand over- 
night. Drain and add horse-radish, which has been put through 
food chopper, and other ingredients. Mix all thoroughly with 
cold vinegar, pack tightly in sterilized jars, and seal at once. 

Mixed Pickle 

2 cups (1 pt.) cooked corn 2 cups (1 pt.) cooked beans 

4 cooked cauliflower heads 6 cucumbers, chopped 

4 green peppers, chopped 3 red peppers, chopped 
4 tablespoons nasturtium seeds, I cup (1§ ozs.) brown sugar 

chopped 3 teaspoons salt 

6 tablespoons mustard 3 tablespoons mixed spices 

1 teaspoon celery salt 8 cups (4 pts.) vinegar 

Mix corn, beans, cauliflower flowerets, peeled cucumbers, 
peppers, and nasturtium seeds; drain thoroughly and pack in 
wide-mouthed sterilized jars. Put sugar, salt, and seasoning 
into a saucepan, add vinegar, and boil fifteen minutes. Pour 
into the jars and seal at once. Care should be taken to have the 
jars well filled, so that no air space remains at the top. Other- 
wise pickle will not keep. 

Pepper Hash 

12 sweet green peppers 3 cups (1§ pts.) vinegar 

12 red peppers 1| cups (10 ozs.) sugar, brown or 

10 large onions white 

Boiling water 3 tablespoons salt 

Wash peppers and remove seeds. Chop peppers and onions 
together, cover with boiling water five minutes; drain and 
cover with more boiling water. After ten minutes drain again. 
Novv^ add vinegar, sugai', and salt, and cook fifteen minutes. 
Divide into bottles and seal. 

Another Method. Put through food chopper two cabbages, ten 
onions, twenty sweet peppers, seeds included, and let stand in 
weak salt water overnight. Drain and cover with vinegar, add 
eight tablespoons sugar, two tablespoons celery seeds, four 
tablespoons mustard seeds, and two hot peppers. Stir well and 
allow to stand two days. Pack into jars, Keeps without seal- 
ing, and no cooking is required, 



298 ECONOMICAL COOKERY 

Pickled Green Tomatoes 

9 pounds green tomatoes 8 cups (4 pts.) brown sugar 

4 cups (1 qt.) diluted vinegar 2 sticks cinnamon 

Cloves 

Peel tomatoes and boil in salted water mitil tender. Drain 
and stick a whole clove in each tomato. Pom- vinegar into a 
saucepan, add sugar and cinnamon, and bring to boiling point. 
Drop tomatoes into this sirup and boil a few minutes, or until 
they look clear. Put tomatoes into jars, pour sirup over, and 
seal. 

Pickled Brains 

Calf's brains Vinegar 

1 teaspoon salt ^ teaspoon black pepper 

Brains must be kept on ice until ready to prepare for cooking, 
and the sooner cooked after coming from market, the better. 
Wash in tepid water, then drop into a saucepan of boiling water 
in which salt has been dissolved. Boil quickly ten minutes, 
lift out brains with a skimmer, drain free of water, and place 
in a bowl. Cover with cold vinegar, sprinkle with pepper, and 
set aside two hours, when they are ready to serve. A little more 
salt may be added if liked. 

Pickled Pumpkin 

6 cups (3 pts.) pumpkin 2 teaspoons powdered cinnamon 

5 cups (2| lbs.) sugar or honey 1 teaspoon powdered mace 
1 cup (^ pt.) vinegar 1 teaspoon powdered cloves 

Peel pumpkin and cut into pieces one inch long and one half 
inch thick. Cover with boiling water and boil until slightly 
tender. Pour off water, add sugar and vinegar, and cook fifteen 
minutes, add spices and boil up until thoroughly mixed. Seal 
in jars while hot. 

Pickled Tongues 

4 pounds pigs' or calves' tongues 1 tablespoon whole black peppers 

4 pigs' feet 2 tablespoons salt 

3 cups (H pts.) vinegar 4 cloves 

1 large onion 1 bay leaf 



PRESERVING AND PICKLING 299 

Wash tongues and feet in warm water and put them into a 
large pot; add vinegar and enough cold water to cover well; 
bring to boiling point quickly and remove all scum as soon as it 
rises. When liquor is clear, add onion, peppers, salt, cloves, and 
bay leaf, and simmer until tongues are tender. Lift out meat, 
skin, and trim, but leave tongues whole and place in a deep 
jar or earthenware bowl. Boil down liquor to three fourths 
pint and strain it over tongues. Chill and use only as much as 
will be required for one meal. Serve cut in slices, garnished with 
some of the jelly and parsley. 

Rhubarb Relish 

4 cups (1 qt.) rhubarb, sHced 1 teaspoon powdered cinnamon 

4 cups (1 qt.) onions, sUced 1 teaspoon powdered cloves 

4 cups (1 qt.) vinegar 1 teaspoon powdered allspice 

5 cups (2^ pts.) brown sugar 1 teaspoon pepper 

1 tablespoon salt 

Peel rhubarb and onions. Heat vinegar, add rhubarb, onions, 
sugar, spices, pepper, and salt. Cook slowly one and one fourth 
hours, then divide into bottles and seal while warm. 

Sweet Cucumber Pickles 

7 pounds ripe cucumbers 8 cups (4 pts.) brown sugar 

4 cups (1 qt.) vinegar 1 tablespoon pickling spices 

Cut cucumbers in slices, remove seeds, and soak in salt water 
overnight. Drain and boil until tender in boiling water and 
drain again thoroughly. Pour vinegar into a saucepan, add 
sugar and spices, brmg to boiling point, boil fifteen minutes, and 
pour over cucumbers. Seal in jars. 

Another Method. Soak cucumbers in brine overnight; in 
the morning rinse well and cook slowly till tender in a sirup 
of six cups sugar to four cups vinegar, and two inches cinnamon 
stick, one tablespoon mace, one tablespoon ginger, and one 
tablespoon mixed spices. Seal in jars. 

To Cure Tongues 

H gallons (6 qts.) water 1 ounce saltpeter 

Coarse and fine salt 4 cups (2 pts.) brown sugar 

2 tongues 



300 ECONOMICAL COOKERY 

Add sufficient coarse salt to water to make a brine that will 
float an egg. Rub fine salt on tongues and let lie two 
days. Wash well, put them in the brine; add saltpeter and 
brown sugar. Cover and tie securely. Let remain three weeks 
or longer. Wash in cold water when ready for use. Put on to 
boil in cold water. Boil slowly and when well cooked remove 
from fire, then let cool and skin. Slice thin. Put the end 
and unsightly portions through a food chopper and use with 
salad dressing as filling for sandwiches. 

To Dry Corn 

Corn ears Warm water 

Select juicy, milky ears of corn which are not too old. With 
sharp knife, remove just tops of kernels, then scrape out rest of 
corn with a downwards stroke of the knife. Be careful not to 
get any of the cob. Spread on plates or pie tins and place in 
oven three or four hours to dry. When completely dry, turn 
into a pail and cover well. When ready to use, soak in warm 
water three hours, then bring to boiling point and cook two 
minutes, and serve seasoned with salt, pepper, and butter. 

Tomato Catchup 

1 peck ripe tomatoes, peeled 1 teaspoon celery seeds 

2 long red peppers I cup (U gills) white mustard 
2 large onions, peeled seeds 

i cup (2 ozs.) salt 1 cup (| pt.) grated horse-radish 

1 cup (i lb.) sugar or honey 1 tablespoon black pepper 

4 cups (1 qt.) best vinegar 

Grind tomatoes, peppers, and onion through food chopper; 
add salt, sugar, seeds, horse-radish, pepper, and vinegar. Mix 
together, but do not cook. Seal in air-tight jars. 

Tomato Conserve 

Ripe sound tomatoes Mixed spices 

Salt 

Put into an enameled saucepan as many tomatoes as are 
required, cook over slow fire until tomatoes become detached 





A CaxxePv for Canning Fruits and Vkgetaijles. 




A Spring Luncheon Table. 




A St. Valentine Table. 



PRESERVING AND PICKLING 301 

from skins, strain through a fine sieve, pressing with a wooden 
spoon, and throw away the first watery Hquor that passes through 
sieve. Return to pan with a little mixed spices (one half table- 
spoon to each pound), and add salt to taste ; stir over slow fire 
until pulp is condensed, turn into earthenware dish, and let cool. 
When cold fill into sterilized bottles and allow to stand over hot 
water fifteen minutes. Cork when perfectly cold and keep in 
cool place. 



CHAPTER XXVI 
MISCELLANEOUS 

" Variety alone gives joy." 
Baked and Fried Bananas 



Bananas 


Lemon juice 


Sugar 


Salt 


Melted butter 


Batter 



Cut abouv one fourth of an inch from each end, but do not 
peel bananas. Lay them in a greased baking dish, and bake 
in hot oven fifteen minutes. When done the skin should burst 
open like that of a baked apple. Then turn bananas over, and 
bake five minutes on other side. Serve very hot. 

Another Method. Remove a strip of the skin, cutting off 
each end as before, and place in a shallow pan with exposed 
side up. Melt two tablespoons of sugar, two of butter melted, 
and two of lemon juice with pinch of salt, and baste bananas 
with this while they are baking for fifteen minutes. Serve very 
hot. 

Slice ripe bananas lengthwise, and fry in hot lard. Eat 
with meat, or serve sprinkled with sugar. A squeeze of lemon 
juice is an improvement. 

Peel ripe bananas, dip them whole or sliced in batter, and fry 
in smoking hot fat until crisp and brown. 

Peel ripe bananas, and place in a pudding dish, sprinkle a 
little lemon juice and sugar on them, half cover with water, and 
bake for twenty minutes. When cool serve with custard, cream, 
or milk. 

302 



MISCELLANEOUS 303 



Cabbage and Ham 

1 cabbage 1 tablespoon (^ oz.) butter'sub- 

Salt stitute 

Sugar 1 slice cooked ham 

Pepper Parsley 

Remove outside leaves from cabbage and soak in cold water 
forty minutes and drain well. Cook in boiling salted water 
until tender, drain and reheat in butter substitute, add salt and 
pepper to taste and pinch of sugar. Serve on hot platter with 
cooked ham on one side and garnish with parsley. 

Cheese Cutlets 

3 tablespoons (1^ ozs.) butter 1 cup (4 ozs.) grated cream 
substitute cheese 

2 tablespoons (5 oz.) cornstarch 2 eggs, separated 
2 tablespoons (| oz.) flour ^ teaspoon salt 

f cup (1§ gills) milk j teaspoon pepper 

i teaspoon paprika 

Blend butter substitute, cornstarch, and flour in a saucepan, 
add milk and stir until boiling. Add cheese, yolks beaten, and 
seasonings. Cook until cheese is melted, turn into greased 
plate and cool. Form into cutlets, dip in flour, brush over with 
beaten egg whites, toss in bread crumbs, and fry in smoking hot 
fat. Drain and serve hot. 

This mixture is excellent for sandwiches. 

French Pancakes 

4 tablespoons (2 ozs.) butter sub- 2 tablespoons (1 oz.) ground rice 

stitute 4 tablespoons (1 oz.) flour 

4 tablespoons (2 ozs.) sugar 1 cup (^ pt.) milk 

2 eggs, beaten Strawberry or raspberry jam 

Cream butter substitute and sugar, add eggs, rice, flour, and 
milk, and mix well. Allow to remain in a cool place one and 
one half hours, so that the rice swells ; divide into well-greased 
saucers and bake in moderate oven fifteen to twenty minutes. 
Spread with jam and place one on another, or spread jam on one 
half and turn over like an omelet. 



304 ECONOMICAL COOKERY 

An Economical French Egg-pancake may be made as follows : 
Take one or more eggs, and beat them well ; add one table- 
spoon of milk to each egg, salt and pepper to taste. Melt a 
little fat in a small fr3dng pan, and cook half the egg mixtuie 
until set. Turn out on to a hot plate, and spread the top with 
jam. Fry the remainder of the egg mixture, and lay on toj) 
of first one. If this is placed between thin buttered slices of 
bread, the children will be able to take it to school. 

Fried Gnocchi 

1 cup {\ pt.) milk I teaspoon pepper 

1 cup (4 lb.) flour \ teaspoon paprika 

2 eggs 4 tablespoons (2 ozs.) butter 
1 teaspoon salt substitute 

2 tablespoons grated cheese 

Boil milk, put in flour all at once, and stir vigorously until 
mixture leaves sides and bottom of pan clean ; remove from fire 
and beat in eggs, one at a time, until smooth, then add season- 
ings, and turn out to cool. When cold, divide into squares, 
dredge with flour or corn meal. Melt butter substitute in small 
frying pan, and, when hot, put in gnocchi and fry until nicely 
browned. When cooked, drain on paper, dish on hot platter, 
sprinkle over wath cheese, and serve hot. 

Green Tomato Mincemeat 

1 peck green tomatoes 1 cup (^ pt.) vinegar 
10 cups (5 lbs.) sugar 2 lemons 

2 tablespoons salt 2 teaspoons powdered cloves 

4 cups (2 lbs.) seeded raisins, 2 teaspoons powdered cinnamon 

chopped 2 teaspoons powdered allspice 

1 cup (4 ozs.) suet, chopped 1 teaspoon powdered nutmeg 

1 teaspoon powdered mace 

Chop tomatoes, drain, and scald them by pouring boiling 
water over and allowing to stand until cold. Put them into 
preserving kettle, add sugar, salt, raisins, and suet, and cook 
slowly until tender. Cool and add vinegar, strained lemon juice, 
and spices. Store in jars and use for pies. 



MISCELLANEOUS 305 

Hopping John 

2 cups (1 pt.) field peas 2 cups (1 lb.) rice 

I pound bacon ] teaspoon salt 

1 small onion, cut fine I teaspoon pepper 

i teaspoon paprika 

Wash peas and soak overnight. Drain and put them into 
saucepan, cover with boiling water, add onion, and cook thirty 
minutes. Wash bacon, add it, and continue to cook two hours, 
adding hot water if it boils low. Wash and drain rice, add it to 
peas with seasonings, and when rice is cooked set pan on back of 
stove to steam contents fifteen minutes. Use a fork to stir, 
as it is apt to stick. Place peas and rice in hot dish with bacon 
on top. If this dish is reheated next day, it is called Limping 
Kate. 

Hygienic Mincemeat 

4 cups (1 lb.) suet, chopped by 1 cup (j lb.) candied citron peel, 

hand chopped 

4 cups (1 lb.) bread crumbs 6 cups (3 pts.) apples, chopped 

8 cups (2 lbs.) currants 1 tablespoon powdered cinnamon 

4 cups (2 lbs.) seeded raisins 1 tablespoon powdered cloves 

5 cups (2 1 lbs.) sugar 1 teaspoon powdered ginger 
1 cup (j lb.) candied lemon peel, 1 teaspoon powdered mace 

chopped 1 teaspoon powdered nutmeg 

1 cup (j lb.) candied orange peel, 1 tablespoon salt 

chopped 4 cups (1 qt.) boiled cider 

Mix all ingredients thoroughly together and seal in sterilized 
jars. Do not cook mixture. Use for pies. 



Inexpensive Lemon Butter 

1 lemon 1 egg 

1 cup (I lb.) sugar 2 tablespoons (1 oz.) butter, 

2 tablespoons water 

Into the upper pan of a double boiler put grated rind and 
strained juice of lemon, sugar, and egg. Beat well, add butter 
and water. Place over boiling water and cook three minutes, 
stirring constantly. Use as a filling for layer cakes or tartlets. 



306 ECONOMICAL COOKERY 

Norfolk Dumplings 

4 cups (1 lb.) flour 1 teaspoon salt 

1 compressed yeast cake 1 cup (I pt.) warm water 

1 teaspoon sugar 

These dumplings are delicious to serve with any kind of 
boiled meat, or with stews or braised meat. 

Sift flour and salt into a large bowl. Mix yeast and sugar 
together until they become liquid. Mix these with the tepid, 
but not hot, water, and use only half the water, in case all of it is 
not required. Make a well in the flour, strain in yeast and water, 
and with a wooden spoon stir flour in smoothly and gradually. 
Then work it all in with a spoon, adding more water as it is 
needed until the flour is all worked into a soft, smooth, but not 
sticky dough. Knead for a few minutes on a floured baking 
board, place it back in the bowl, cover with a clean cloth, and 
set to rise until doubled in bulk. Then form dough into small 
balls, put these into a large saucepan of fast-boiling salted water, 
and cook quickly fifteen minutes. Draiu well and serve at once. 

These dumplings are also excellent to serve as a pudding, and 
can be eaten with sirup, preserves, or butter and sugar. 

Or take any bread dough left over from baking, and divide 
it into small balls. Drop these into a saucepan of boiling water, 
slightly salted, and boil thirty minutes, or until dumplings are 
well cooked. Serve lM)t with honey, sirup, or preserves. 

Nut Croquettes 

1 small onion, chopped | teaspoon pepper 

2 tablespoons (1 oz.) butter 1 teaspoon lemon juice 

1 tablespoon flour 1 cup (4 ozs.) English walnut 
1 cup (^ pt.) milk meats, chopped 

1 cup (4 ozs.) bread crumbs 1 cup (4 ozs.) peanuts, chopped 

2 eggs, beaten Hot fat 

1 teaspoon salt White or tomato sauce 

Fry onion in butter. When lightly browned stir in flour, milk, 
bread crumbs, eggs, seasonings, and nuts. Cook five minutes, 
then turn out on platter to cool. Form mixture into neat 
croquettes, brush over with beaten egg, toss in bread crumbs, 
and fry in smoking hot fat. Drain and serve with sauce. 



MISCELLANEOUS 307 

Nut Stuffing 

4 tablespoons (2 ozs.) butter sub- 1 tablespoon chopped parsley 

stitute 1 teaspoon salt 

1 cup (j lb.) chopped nut meats ^ teaspoon pepper 

1 slice onion, chopped 1 egg, beaten 

^ cup (2 ozs.) bread crumbs 1 tablespoon milk 

Melt butter substitute in small saucepan, add nuts and onion, 
and fry until lightly browned, mix well, add bread crumbs, 
parsley, seasonings, egg, and milk. Mix together and use for 
stuffing poultry or game, and certain vegetables. 

Or, mix one and one half cups chopped nut meats with one 
cup mashed potatoes, add four tablespoons melted butter substi- 
tute, one chopped onion, one teaspoon powdered herbs, one half 
teaspoon pepper, one teaspoon salt and milk or water to moisten. 

A Fine Peanut Stuffing. Mix three fourths cup of moistened 
cracker crumbs with two tablespoons butter substitute, melted, 
one half teaspoon each onion juice and salt, one fourth teaspoon 
each pepper and paprika, one half cup chopped roasted peanuts 
and one half cup cream. This mixture is used for stuffing ducks. 

Onion and Sage Stuffing 

2 Spanish onions, peeled ^ teaspoon pepper 

1 cup (4 ozs.) bread crumbs | teaspoon powdered mace 

1| teaspoons powdered sage f teaspoon sugar 

1 teaspoon salt 2 tablespoons vegetable oil or 

melted butter substitute 

Cut onions in thick slices, put them into a saucepan, cover with 
boiling salted water, and bring to the boil and strain off this 
water. Cover again with boiling, slightly salted water and 
boil thirty minutes, drain, press onions dry as possible and chop, 
put them into a bowl, add bread crumbs, seasonings, and vege- 
table oil. Mix well together and use. This stuffing is used 
for roast duck, goose, or roast pork. If fresh sage is used, boil 
leaves a few minutes, dry well, and then chop finely. 

Oyster Shortcake 

4 cups (1 qt.) oysters 1 teaspoon salt 

3 tablespoons (1| ozs.) butter ^ teaspoon pepper 

1 tablespoon flour 3 tablespoons cream 



308 ECONOMICAL COOKERY 

Drain and clean oysters, scald and strain liquor and cook 
oysters in liquor until edges curl. Blend butter and flour in 
saucepan over fire, add seasonings, cream, and oysters. Stir 
over fire one half minute and fill shortcake and serve at once. 

Shortcake 
2 cups (2 lb.) flour I cup (2 ozs.) shortening 

1 teaspoon salt f cup (1| gills) milk 

2 teaspoons baking powder 1 egg, beaten 

Mix and sift dry ingredients foui' times, cut and rub in shorten- 
ing, add milk and egg. Mix and spread on greased tin and 
bake in hot oven twenty minutes. Split apart at edges, cool 
five minutes, spread with butter, add oyster mixture. 

Oyster Stuffing 

2 cups (1 pt.) oysters ^ teaspoon pepper 

1 cup (i lb.) bread crumbs | teaspoon paprika 

2 teaspoons chopped parsley 4 tablespoons (2 ozs.) butter sub- 
1 teaspoon salt stitute, melted 

Drain oysters and cut them into small pieces, add bread 
crmnbs, parsley, seasonings, melted butter substitute, and 
enough of the oyster liquor to make stuffing of a softish con- 
sistency. This may be used for stuffing fish or poultry. 

Shrimp stuffing may be made in the same way, adding one 
beaten egg or a little milk in place of oyster liquor. 

Potato and Oyster Pie 

Short pastry Salt 

6 large potatoes Pepper 

20 oysters Melted butter 
Hot milk 

Line a pie dish with short crust. Pare and slice potatoes and 
drain oysters. Into pastry-lined dish put a layer of potatoes, 
one of oysters, until there are three layers of potatoes and two 
layers of oysters. Season each layer with salt, pepper, and 
melted butter. Pour in oyster liquor and place on a top crust. 
Bake in moderate oven one hour and serve with or without milk. 



MISCELLANEOUS 309 

Potted Cheese 

2 cups (^ lb.) cheese Powdered mace 

3 tablespoons (1| ozs.) butter Vinegar 

Red pepper Made mustard 

Any scraps of good cheeee may be used for potting; it is a 
good way to use up remnants. Remove rind, and either 
chop or grate the pieces, which will make the pounding easier. 
Pound cheese with butter. Sometimes olive oil is used instead 
of butter. Season to taste and pound until a smooth paste is 
formed. Pack this into small jars and cover with clarified butter. 

Raisin Dumplings 

1 cup (i lb.) flour I cup (2 ozs.) seeded raisins 

^ cup (2 ozs.) rice flour 1 cup (^ pt.) milk 

4 tablespoons corn meal 2 teaspoons baking powder 

1 cup (2 ozs.) butter substitute | teaspoon salt 

Sift flours into a bowl, add corn meal, cut and rub in butter 
substitute, add raisins, baking powder, salt, and milk. Knead 
lightly until free from cracks, form into small balls with the 
hands, using a little flour to prevent dough sticking. Drop 
into a saucepan of boiling water, and boil thirty minutes, or 
until well cooked. Lift out with drainer, and serve hot in hot 
casserole, with hot milk or any preferred sweet sauce. 

Savory Bread Pudding 

To Accompany Roast Pork or Goose 

§ pound pieces stale bread 1 teaspoon powdered sage 

2 cups (1 pt.) boihng milk 1 teaspoon powdered thyme 
1 cup (i lb.) suet, chopped 1 teaspoon chopped parsley 
1 tablespoon fine oatmeal 2 eggs, beaten 

4 onions, chopped 1 teaspoon salt 

i teaspoon pepper 

Put bread into a bowl, pour over milk, cover with plate, and 
allow to remain until bread has taken up as much of milk as it 
will. Drain away superfluous liquid, mash bread to a pulp, 
removing any hard lumps; add suet, oatmeal, onions, season- 
ings, and eggs. If too dry add a little milk. Bake in a large 



310 ECONOMICAL COOKERY 

flat pan, which has been liberally greased and not more than 
half filled with mixture, one and one half hours in moderate 
oven. Baste now and then with a spoonful of hot drippings. 

Self-raising Flour 

6 pounds flour I ounce salt 

I cup (1| 0Z8.) cornstarch 3 ounlces cream of tartar 

11 ounces baking soda 

Mix ingredients and sift them four times. Keep in large jar 
or can closely covered. When keeping self-raising flour or 
similar preparations, it is important to observe that a very dry 
place should be used for the storage. Damp or any moisture 
is apt to severely affect the raising property. Also, when using 
self-raising flour, it is well to bear in mind that as soon as liquid 
is added to the mixture, be it for cakes or pastry, it should be 
baked as quickly as possible, else the value of the raising agents 
will be lost. 

Spanish Rice 

f cup (6 ozs.) rice 2 medium-sized sweet green 

^ medium-sized onion, chopped peppers, cut fine 

4 shces bacon, cut small 1 teaspoon salt 

I can tomatoes I teaspoon pepper 

Boil rice in boiling salted water until tender and drain. 
Brown onion and bacon in saucepan, add tomatoes and peppers, 
and cook thirty minutes. Add rice and seasonings and serve 
very hot. 

Suet Dumplings 

i cup (2 ozs.) suet, chopped | teaspoon pepper 

1 cup (4 ozs.) flour I teaspoon paprika 

^ teaspoon salt 1 teaspoon baking powder 

Cold water 

Chop suet fine, add flour, seasonings, and baking powder, and 
moisten with water, being careful not to make paste too wet. 
Form into small dumplings, using a little flour. Drop into 
boiling salted water or stock and boil gently fifteen minutes. 
Drain, put them in hot soup tureen, and pour hot soup over. 



MISCELLANEOUS 311 



Sweet Potatoes and Marshmallows 

12 sweet potatoes 4 tablespoons (2 ozs.) butter 

4 tablespoons (2 ozs.) sugar ^ teaspoon salt 

Marshmallows 

Boil potatoes until tender, peel and mash them, add sugar, 
butter, and salt, and mix well. Turn into greased baking dish, 
cover top with marshmallows, and place in moderate oven long 
enough for marshmallows to swell and brown. Serve hot. 

Tomato Hot Pot 

1 pound mutton 1 onion 

1 cup (I pt.) stock or water 1 tablespoon flour 

1 can tomatoes 1 teaspoon salt 

4 potatoes I teaspoon pepper 

J teaspoon paprOia 

Remove all skin, fat, and gristle from meat, and cut it into 
small pieces. Peel and dice potatoes and shred onion. Add 
seasonings to flour and dip meat into it piece by piece. Put 
layer of potatoes into casserole, then layer of onion and tomatoes, 
then layer of meat, until dish is full. A layer of potatoes should 
come last. Pour over stock, put on cover, cook in moderate 
oven three hours. Serve in dish it was cooked in. 



CHAPTER XXVII 
WRINKLES 

" Pray you, take note of it/* 
Raisins with Oil 

Wash and dry one package of seeded raisins, put them into a 
china dish, add one half cup of the best olive oil, cover and place 
it in a warm oven for two or three hours, stirring raisins occa- 
sionally ; when raisins are soft and swollen and oil is absorbed, 
they are ready for use. If raisins are greasy, use less oil, as 
the absorption varies with the quality of fruit. 

Six to eight raisins may be taken before breakfast or between 
meals. They are excellent for children, and being a nourishing 
food, will not weaken the body like an ordinary aperient. 

Browning for Gravies, Soups, Stews, etc. 

Put one half pound brown or white sugar into an old iron pan, 
stir with an iron spoon until it melts and turns a dark brown 
color, then add one half cup water, taking care to prevent it 
boiling over, boil until sugar is quite dissolved and bottle when 
cold. A small quantity of this gives a very rich color. 

Brown Glaze for Coating Tongues, Ham, Etc. 

Put two cups aspic jelly into a saucepan, add one sliced tomato, 
one teaspoon salt, one half teaspoon pepper, one teaspoon meat 
extract, and a few drops red color and boil until reduced to 
one half the quantity ; rub through a sieve, and when it com- 
mences to set, use for coating hams, tongues, galantines, pressed 
beef, etc. This is usually applied with a brush. 

312 



WRINKLES 313 

To Clarify Fat 

Cut up into small pieces any scraps of cooked or uncooked 
fat, put into an iron saucepan, cover with cold water, bring 
slowly to the boil, and skim off the thick scum thoroughly; 
then allow it to boil slowly until all the water has evaporated 
and the pieces of fat are crisp. When a little cool, strain, and 
it is ready for fryuig, or for recipes where shortening is stated. 

To Cover a Pudding with Paper 

Take a piece of paper, twice folded, about one and one half 
inches larger than the pudding mold, all round ; grease the center, 
hold it firmly on the top of mold with the left hand, and roll 
edge firmly under the right hand. This mode will be found to 
answer the purpose as well as a pudding cloth, and is much 
more convenient. 

To Make Bread Crumbs 

Take crumbly part of stale bread, and rub it through a wire 
sieve with the palm of the hand. 

To Make Brown Bread Crumbs. Take stale bread, put it 
into a slow oven to dry, and bake a golden brown shade, crush 
with a rolling pin, pass through a fine sieve, or put through food 
chopper. Keep in air-tight jars or bottles. 

Eggs for Breakfast or Luncheon 

Put a small quantity of butter in small frying pan, break in 
the eggs, and season with salt and pepper to taste. Place on 
moderate fire, add three tablespoons of water, and cover. Cook 
imtil eggs are firm. These eggs are delicious with a thin wliite 
covering over the yellow. They are much like poached eggs 
without the inconvenience of trimming and the watery flavor 
which poached eggs usually have, and are quite as digestible. 
A small sprinkling of onion salt may be used if liked. 

Cream as Food 

Cream is superior to butter as a food, for by permitting the 
gastric juices to mix with it in the natural state, it assists 



314 ECONOMICAL COOKERY 

digestion. For invalids it serves as a nutrient in the most easily 
available form. It is superior to butter, as it contains more 
volatile oil in that state than after the process of churning. 
People often have an impression that they are unable to digest 
milk; the richer the milk the easier of digestion, therefore 
many people can take a tumbler of milk that has a wineglass of 
cream in it when they could not digest milk alone. 

Frying Bacon or Ham 

When frying ham or bacon for breakfast always place it in the 
pan before putting it on the fire. It cooks and browns much 
quicker and better than if put on in a warm pan. 

Why Batter is Beaten 
Correct beating introduces air into the mixture ; air expands 
with heat. As it expands, it lifts up — raises — the batter, and 
so makes it light. After the beating is finished, stir in the rest 
of the milk, but there must be no more beating, for now the batter 
is thin, and blows from the spoon would break the bubbles, 
and permit air to escape. Let batter stand one hour, if possible, 
in order to permit the starch grains to swell. 

For Creamy Fudge 

To have fudge of a creamy texture, place the pan in cold water 
immediately on taking pan from the fire and stir — not beat — 
the mixture with a wooden spoon. Slightly warm pans into 
which fudge or peanut brittle is to be poured. The candy 
will be of a more uniform thickness, and peanut brittle can be 
made thinner than when pans are cold. 

How to Make Tough Meat Tender 

Many persons do not care for stews, or at least grow tired 
of them in time. Here is a plan which might be tried with 
advantage. First, steam a joint of meat for two hours, then 
finish cooking by roasting in the oven. To steam, place it in a 
large saucepan upon a trivet or anji^hing that will raise it from 
bottom of pan. Fill up with boiling water almost as far as 



WRINKLES 315 

meat, but not touching it. Cover pan and steam steadily for 
required time. Be careful that water does not boil away during 
cooking, or pan will burn. Replenish with boiling water when 
water seems to be getting low. When well steamed, take up 
meat, rub it over with drippings, and put some drippings also 
in roasting pan. Bake in hot oven thirty minutes, basting fre- 
quently. Gravy may be made in pan as for any other roast 
meat. 

Potato Parings 

Potato parings should not be wasted. Dried, they form ex- 
cellent kindling for a fire ; and boiled and added to barley meal 
or bran they make very good food for ducks and chickens. 

To Remove Smell of Onions 

To remove smell of onions from knives, place them in the 
earth for a few minutes. Earth will also sweeten pickle jars 
that washing seems powerless to render fit for use, but in this 
case the jars should be filled with earth and allowed to remain 
twenty-four hours or so. 

Lemonade Powder 

To make lemonade powder, take one half ounce citric acid, 
four ounces sugar, and ten drops lemon extract. Mix all thor- 
oughly, and rub twice through a clean sieve. Two teaspoons of 
this powder will make a good glass of lemonade. 

To Freshen Pastry 

To freshen pastry, sprinkle it well with cold water, put it in the 
oven, and reheat. Puff pastry is the only kind that cannot be 
freshened in this way. 

To Keep Lemons 

Lemons will keep indefinitely in a cool place if covered with 
water. This should be changed every second day. They may 
also be stored in dry sand. 



316 ECONOMICAL COOKERY 

To Soften Hard Candied Peel 

Candied peel tliat has become dry and hard should be separated 
from the rest, then sliced or chopped and put into a dish with 
enough wine to moisten it. It is then ready for use in puddings 
which are cooked in an hour or two — and there are many 
such — for this preliminary soaking not only softens and flavors 
the peel, but renders it more digestible. As all know, candied 
peel is one of those ingredients that can hardly be cooked too 
long, hence, in carrying out this hint, one is certain to improve 
the dish to which the peel is added. 

To Thicken Stews 

Crusts of bread put into a stew at the commencement may be 
used to thicken it instead of flour. When dishing up pass the 
liquor, together with the bread and vegetables, through a fine 
sieve. This makes an excellent thickening for a sauce. 

Boiling Beans 

In boiling dried beans, do not put in the salt until the beans 
are nearly cooked, otherwise they are apt to split and crack. 

About Orange Marmalade 

Orange marmalade may with great advantage be substituted 
for candied peel for boiled pudding when the latter is not at 
hand, ^ndeed, if anything, a little marmalade added to suet 
puddings is a decided improvement. 

To Make a Spice Bag 

A spice bag filled with the following ingredients will be found a 
great time saver. It can just be dropped into soup and boiled 
until enough of the flavor is extracted, then rinsed in hot water, 
and it is ready for use again. Tie up together one teaspoon 
peppercorns, one teaspoon cloves, one blade mace, three bay 
leaves, six allspice berries, one saltspoon celery seed, and a small 
bunch of herbs. 



WKINKLES 317 

To Make Croutons for Soup 

Cut bread one fourth inch thick, stamp out in small rounds or 
squares. Put one half cup butter substitute into a saucepan 
and allow to melt ; when hot, throw in bread and fry a golden 
color. Drain on paper and use. Or the crotitons may be soaked 
for a short time in stock or milk and browned on a greased tin 
in a hot oven. 

To make croMons for garnishing, cut bread in slices not more 
than one half inch in thickness, then cut in fancy shapes, such 
as crescents, triangles, etc. Fry as above. 

To make pastry croutons, roll out some scraps of pastry very 
thin and cut it in shreds one inch in length, and bake or fry 
these until browned. Drain and serve hot. To make fleurons 
of pastry, roll out scraps of pastry one fourth inch in thickness, 
and cut out with fancy cutters. Place these on a greased baking 
tin, brush over with milk or beaten egg, and bake in hot oven until 
browned. These are used as a garnish for hash, etc. 



CHAPTER XXVIII 

WHAT TO SERVE WITH FISH, MEATS, AND 
VEGETABLES 

'' With ease, 
Or with a Httle shuffling you may choose/* 

With Boiled Fish 

Serve with boiled fish, rich white sauce, drawn butter sauce, 
egg, Hollandaise, or Bechamel sauces. Boiled potato balls 
may be served on the same dish. Garnish with slices of lemon, 
or slices of hard-cooked eggs. 

Serve with baked fish, brown sauce. Garnish with lemon and 
parsley. 

With Meats 

Serve with roast beef, Yorkshire pudding, baked white 
potatoes, or mashed potatoes, gravy, hot or cold horse-radish 
sauce, boiled or brown sweet potatoes, corn, tomatoes, spinach, 
or carrots. 

Serve with cold beef, pickles, aspic jelly, salad with French 
dressing, or relishes. 

Serve with boiled beef, cabbage and other vegetables boiled, 
or dumplings, or boiled potatoes, string beans, or browned 
parsnips. 

Serve with boiled mutton, caper sauce, boiled rice, or vege- 
tables. 

Serve with roast mutton, red currant jelly, brown sauce, gravy. 

Serve with cold mutton, sliced tomatoes with French dressing. 

Serve with lamb, mint sauce, gravy, cucumbers with cream 
sauce, peas. 

318 



ETC. 319 

Serve with cold lamb, lettuce and mint salad, with French 
dressing. 

Serve with corned beef, boiled cabbage, turnips, boiled 
potatoes. 

Serve with tongue, carrots, raisin sauce, or rice. 

Sei've with mmced steak, hashed browned potatoes, lettuce 
or celery salad. 

Serve with rolled steak, brown or tomato sauce, potato puffs, 
and vegetables. 

Serve with beef hearty mashed potatoes, buttered beets, 
carrots, or parsnips. 

Serve with roast veal, gravy, grilled bacon, or ham. 

Serve with veal cutlets, tomato sauce, rice balls, peas. 

Serve with stewed veal, dumplings, baked potatoes. 

Serve with boiled veal, parsley sauce. 

Serve with cold veal, celery mayoimaise, lettuce or tomato 
salad. 

Serve with roast pork, apple sauce, gravy, dried beans, peas, 
or lentils. 

Serve with cold pork, apple sauce, cabbage or celery salad. 

Serve with braised ham, brown sauce. 

Serve with baked ham, or boiled ham, cider sauce, or currant 
jelly, sweet potatoes, cabbage salad with French dressing. 

Serve with boiled rabbit, pickled pork, onion sauce. 

Serve with roast rabbit, sage stuffing, brown tomato sauce, 
fried potato chips. 

Serve with roast fowl, bread sauce, gravy, grilled bacon, 
watercress, fried potatoes. 

Serve with boiled fowl, egg or parsley sauce. 

Serve with roast or braised duck, gravy, apple sauce, orange 
sauce, fried potatoes. 

Serve with roast turkey, cranberry sauce, bread sauce, gravy, 
grilled sausages. 

Serve with boiled turkey, celery, oyster or egg sauce. 

Serve with squabs, gravy, toasted bread, and watercress. 

Serve with roast goose, apple sauce, gravy, or chestnut pur^e, 
or fried potatoes. 

Serve with guinea fowl, bread sauce, watercress, gravy. 



320 ECONOMICAL COOKERY 

Serve with hare, red currant jelly, forcemeat balls. 
Serve with every meat course one starchy and one green 
vegetable. The green vegetable may be a salad. 

With Vegetables 

Serve with asparagus or artichokes, melted butter, Hollan- 
daise sauce. 

Serve with Jerusalem artichokes, cauliflower or beans, white, 
parsley, or tomato sauce. 

Serve with peas, sweet butter, mint flavor. 

Serve with celery or onions, white, brown, or parsley sauce. 



CHAPTER XXIX 

MENUS 

" On hospitable thought intent." 

Breakfast 

Cereal with Dates Parsley Omelet Bran Muffins 

Coffee 



Luncheon or Supper 

Risotto Oatmeal Bread and Butter Raisin Pie 

Tea or Cocoa 



Dinner 

Irish Stew Lettuce Salad, French Dressing 

Apple Snow Coffee 



Breakfast 

Farina with Raisins Codfish Balls Buckwheat Cakes 

Coffee 



Luncheon or Supper 

Cold Baked Bean Salad 

Brown Bread Rhubarb Stewed with Raisins 

Cocoa or Tea 



Dinner 

Corned Beef Potatoes Cabbage 

Cottage Pudding, Chocolate Sauce Coffee 

321 



322 ECONOMICAL COOKERY 



Breakfast 

Cornmeal Mush, Sauted Soft-Boiled Eggs Popovers 

Cereal Coffee 



Luncheon or Supper 

Potato Cassolettes Baked Apples 

Ginger Cookies Cocoa or Tea 



Dinner 

Onion Soup 

Pilaff of Mutton Sweet Potato Croquettes Spinach 

Cheese Crackers Coffee 



Breakfast 

Cereal Creamed Dried Beef Griddle Cakes, Sirup or Honey 

Coffee 



Luncheon or Supper 

Salmon Croquettes, Tomato Sauce Celery Salad 

Rolls Tea or Cocoa 



Dinner 

Rolled Flank of Beef, Braised 
Potatoes on the Half Shell Molded Spinach 

Pineapple Junket Coffee 



Breakfast 

Oatmeal with Figs Fried Oysters Eggless Corn Bread 

Coffee 



Luncheon or Supper 

Cheese Croquettes Stewed Tomatoes 

Oatmeal Drop Cakes Cocoa or Tea 



MENUS 323 



Dinner 



Boiled Fish, Egg Sauce 

Boiled Potatoes Green Peas 

Canned Peach Sherbet 

Cofifee 



Breakfast 

Berry Mush Creamed Finnan Haddie 

Raisin Bread, Toasted Coffee 



Luncheon or Supper 

Oyster Stev/ 

Crackers Cold Slaw Date Pie 

Cocoa or Tea 



Dinner 

Baked Beef Loaf, Brown Gravy 
Peppers Boiled Rice 

Honeycomb Pudding Coffee 



Breakfast 

Boiled Barley Kippered Herrings Creamed Potatoes 

Dry Toast Coffee 



Luncheon or Supper 

Deviled Sardines Potato Salad, Boiled Dressing 

Raisin Cookies Cocoa or Tea 



Dinner 

Chicken Pie 

Browned Potatoes Creamed Carrots 

Orange Jelly Coffee 



Breakfast 

Cereal with Apples Tripe Fried in Batter 

Graham Rolls Coffee 



324 



ECONOMICAL COOKERY 



Cheese Pudding 



Luncheon or Supper 

Pockc'tbook Rolls 
Cocoa or Tea 



Fruit Salad 



Dinner 

Baked Stuffed Fish 
Potatoes au Gratin Creamed Cauliflower 

Lettuce Salad, Boiled Dressing 
Fig Puffs Coffee 



Hominy with Prunes 



Breakfast 

Lamb Chops 
Coffee 



Potato Biscuits 



Kedgeree 



Luncheon or Supper 



Cocoa or Tea 



Apple Tart 



Sweet Potatoes 
Celery Salad 



Dinner 

Chicken en Casserole 

Coffee 



Spiced Currants 
Cheese Crackers 



Baked Apples 



Breakfast 

Liver and Bacon 
Coffee 



Corn Muffins 



Luncheon or Supper 



Cottage Cheese 
Nut and Raisin Bread 



Sliced Pineapple 

Tea or Cocoa 



Dinner 

Boiled Tongue Boiled Spinach Fried Potatoes 

Vanilla Ice Cream Coffee 



MENUS 325 



Breakfast 



Stewed Apples Cereal with Milk Eggs in Potato Cases 

Baking-powder Biscuits Coffee 



Luncheon or Supper 

Curried Fish with Rice Cheese Fingers 

Tea or Cocoa 



Dinner 

Roast Leg of Mutton 

Potatoes Cauliflower Shaved Cabbage, Boiled Dressing 

Pineapple Jelly Coffee 



Breakfast 

Cereal with Milk Scrambled Eggs 

French Toast, Marmalade Coffee 



Luncheon or Supper 

Rice Croquettes, Cheese Sauce 

Onion and Celery Salad Whole Wheat Bread 

Tea or Cocoa 



Dinner 

Bean Soup 
Macaroni Cutlets, Tomato Sauce Fruit Whip 

Coffee 



CHAPTER XXX 
TIME-TABLE FOR COOKING 

" The youthful housekeeper is not so very wise, 
So let not the older these few hints despise." 

Baking 

Beef, loin or ribs, rare, per pound 8 to 10 minutes 

Beef, loin or ribs, well done, per pound . . . . 12 to 16 minutes 

Beef, ribs, rolled, rare 12 to 15 minutes 

Beef, ribs, rolled, well done 15 to 18 minutes 

Beef, fillet, rare 20 to 30 minutes 

Beef, fillet, well done 60 minutes 

Mutton, leg, rare, per pound 10 minutes 

Mutton, leg, well done, per pound 14 minutes 

Mutton, forequartcr, stuffed, per pound . . . 15 to 25 minutes 

Lamb, well done, per pound 15 to 20 minutes 

Pot roast, per pound 10 minutes 

Veal, well done, per pound 20 to 25 minutes 

Pork, well done, per pound 20 to 25 minutes 

Venison, rare, per pound 40 minutes 

Chicken, per pound 15 to 20 minutes 

Turkey, 9 pounds 3 hours 

Goose, 9 pounds 2^ hours 

Duck, domestic 1 to IJ hours 

Duck, wild 20 to 30 minutes 

Ham 4 to 6 hours 

Fish, 3 or 4 pounds 45 to 60 minutes 

Small fish and fillets 20 minutes 

Beans with pork 6 to 8 hours 

Bread, white loaf 45 to 60 minutes 

Graham loaf 40 to 60 minutes 

Baking-powder Biscuits 12 to 15 minutes 

Popovers 30 to 35 minutes 

Gems 25 to 30 minutes 

Quick doughs 8 to 15 minutes 

326 



TIME-TABLE FOR COOKING 327 

Cookies 8 to 10 minutes 

Gingerbread 20 to 30 minutes 

Sponge cake 45 to 60 minutes 

Cake, layer 20 to 30 minutes 

Cake, loaf 40 to 60 minutes 

Fruit cake 2 to 4 hours 

Cake, wedding 3 to 5 hours 

Cakes, small 15 to 30 minutes 

Batter puddings 35 to 45 minutes 

Pies 30 to 50 minutes 

Tarts 15 to 20 minutes 

Patties 15 to 25 minutes 

Vol-au-vent 50 to 60 minutes 

Muffins, yeast 30 minutes 

Muffins, baking-powder 20 to 25 minutes 

Indian pudding 2 to 3 hours 

Rice or tapioca pudding 1 hour 

Bread puddings 45 to 60 minutes 

Scallop dishes 15 to 20 minutes 

Custard 35 to 45 minutes 

Custard in cups 20 to 30 minutes 

Boiling 

Meats 2 to 6 hours 

Corned meat 4 to 6 hours 

Ox tongue 3 to 4 hours 

Ham, 12 to 14 pounds 4 to 5 hours 

Turkey, 10 pounds 3 to 4 hours 

Fowl, 4 to 5 pounds 2 to 3 hours 

Chicken, 3 pounds 1 to 1^ hours 

Fish, 2 to 5 pounds 30 to 45 minutes 

Lobster 25 to 30 minutes 

Cod, 3 to 5 pounds 20 to 30 minutes 

Halibut, thick piece 15 minutes 

Asparagus 20 to 40 minutes 

Beans, shell or string 1 to 3 hours 

Beets 2 to 4 hours 

Corn 5 to 20 minutes 

Macaroni 20 to 40 minutes 

Rice 20 to 30 minutes 

Broiling 

Steak, 1 inch thick 4 to 10 minutes 

Steak, 1^ inches 8 to 12 minutes 



328 ECONOMICAL COOKERY 

Lamb or mutton chops 6 to 10 minutes 

Chicken 20 minutes 

Squabs 10 to 12 minutes 

Kidneys 3 to 6 minutes 

Shad, whitefish, and bluefish 15 to 20 minutes 

Fish shces 12 to 15 minutes 

Liver 4 to 5 minutes 

Frying 

Smelts and other small fish 3 to 5 minutes 

Breaded chops 5 to 8 minutes 

Potatoes, raw 4 to 10 minutes 

Fish balls and croquettes 1 minute 

Doughnuts and fritters 3 to 6 minutes 



CHAPTER XXXI 
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES 

" With weights and measures just and true 
With stoves of even heat 
Well buttered tins and quiet nerves 
Success will be complete." 

27i grains 1 dram 

16 drams 1 ounce 

16 ounces 1 pound 

60 drops 1 teaspoon 

3 teaspoons 1 tablespoon 

4 tablespoons 1 wineglass, 

h gill, or I 
cup 

16 tablespoons 1 cup 

2 gills 1 cup 

i pint 1 cup 

1 pint 2 cups 

2 pints 1 quart 

4 quarts 1 gallon 

2 tablespoons butter 1 ounce 

2 tablespoons salt 1 ounce 

2 tablespoons sugar 1 ounce 

4 tablespoons flour 1 ounce 

1 square chocolate 1 ounce 

4 cups flour 1 pound 

2 cups sugar 1 pound 

2 cups butter 1 pound 

1 cup chopped suet i pound 

1 cup crumbs I pound 

1 cup chopped nut meats I pound 

1 cup currants I pound 

2 tablespoons cake crumbs 1 ounce 

1 cup chopped cooked meat | pound 

329 



330 ECONOMICAL COOKERY 

1 cup bran 3 ounces 

1 cup seeded raisins 8 ounces 

1 cup Sultana raisins 6 ounces 

40 marshmallows 6 ounces 

1 cup Graham flour 5 ounces 

10 or 9 medium eggs 1 pound 

3 1 cups confectioners' sugar 1 pound 

1 cup corn meal 6 ounces 

-} cup ground rice 2 ounces 

1 cup brown sugar 1^ ounces 

2 cups grated cheese 8 ounces 

1 cup rice 8 ounces 

I cup fine oatmeal 3 ounces 

All materials are measured level, i.e., by filling spoon or cup 
more than full and leveling with a case knife. 

To measure meal, flour, sugar, and similar ingredients, sift 
lightly into the measure, then level. 

Standard measuring cups made of tin, aluminum, or glass, 
holding one half pint, always should be used. Coffee and tea 
cups vary so much that correct proportions cannot be obtained 
by using them. 

To measure a spoonful of dry material, fill the spoon heaping, 
then level. To measure one half spoonful, fill and level the 
spoon, then divide in half lengthwise; for quarter spoonfuls, 
divide the halves crosswise. 

Use level measurements in all recipes in this book. 



INDEX 



Acids, Vegetable, 253 

Alpine eggs, 54 

Amount of food required, 254 

Apple and orange marmalade, 288- 

289 
Apple butter, 289 

custard, 152, 266 

ice cream, 175 

pastry, 246 

rolls and sauce, 152 

sauce, 164 

water, 27 
Apples and rice. Baked, 153 
Apples, Canned, cold pack method, 
291 

Dried, 292 
Apple-sauce cake, 200 
Apricot custard, 224 

soup, 68 

squares (dried), 278 
Arrowroot porridge, 44 
Artichokes, Stuffed, 132 
Asparagus k I'ltalienne, 124-125 

omelet, 59 

Bacon and potato pastry, 246 
Bacon, How to choose, 4 
Bacon or ham. Frying, 314 
Baked and fried bananas, 302 
Baked apples and rice, 153 

bean sandwiches, 217 

beets, 125 

cabbage, 125 

chicken, 110 

finnan haddie, 243 

fish, 267 

French toast, 213-214 

ham, 98-99 

herrings, 82 

marrow pudding, 153-154 

peanut pudding, 255 

pork chops, 94 

rice pudding, 153-154 



Baked salmon, 82 

smelts, 267 

squash, 136 

sweet omelet, 59-60 
Baking, Process of, 11 

Time-table for, 326-327 
Baking-powder biscuits, 29-30 
Banana and pear jam, 289 

salad, 139 
Bananas, Baked and fried, 302 

Deviled, 227 
Banbury tartlets, 191-192 
Barbecue of poultry or game, 224 
Barberry jelly, 289-290 
Barley and prunes, 44 
Barley water, 267 
Barm brack, 200-201 
Batter (for fish), 84-85 
Bean pies, 256 

puree with grated cheese, 69 
Beans, Boiling, 316 

Fried, 228 

Potted, 261-262 
Beans and potatoes en casserole, 

255 
Beef and egg sandwiches, 218 

and potato cutlets, 233-234 

How to choose, 3 

olives, 95 

roasted in Virginia style, 103-104 

sandwichea^(raw) , 271-272 

soup with savory dumplings, 69 

spiced, 104-105 

tea, 268 
Beef heart, Stuffed and roasted, 94- 

95 
Beet and cabbage salad, 140 
Beets, Baked, 125-126 
Berry sauce (fresh), 167 
Beverages : Apple water, 27 

Cafe au lait, 20 

Capillaire, 18 

Cherry Shrub, 18 



331 



332 



INDEX 



Beverages: Choca, 18 

Chocolate, Hot, 23 

Cider cup, 19 

Cocoa, 19 

Coffee, 19 
Iced, 20 

Cream nectar, 20 

Delicious chocolate, 21 

Fruit drink, 21 

Gingerade, 22 

Ginger beer, 21-22 

Ginger beer powder, 22 

Ginger wine, 22 

Grapeade, 23 

Honey beer, 23 

Koumiss, 24 

Lemonade, 24 

Lemon sirup, 24 

Oatmeal and cocoa cooler, 26 

Orgeat water, 26 

Pineapple, 26 

Prune water, 26 

Raspberry vinegar, 27 

Rhubarb, 17 

Tea, 25-26 
punch, 27 
Birds, Game, 7 
Biscuits, baking-powder, 29-30 

Graham, 35-36 
Black currant jam, 290-291 
Blackberry and apple jelly, 290 
Boiled cauliflower, 126 

fish with sauce, 82 

frosting, 207 

fruit cake, 201 

hominy, 45 

lamb's head, 95-C6 

leeks, 126-127 

maple frosting, 204 

neck or shoulder of mutton, 96 

parsnips, 130 

red cabbage, 127 

rice, 45-46 

turkey, 110 
Boiling, Methods of, 13-14 

Time-table for, 327 
Boiling beans, 316 
Bone stock, 65, 70-71 
Bones, Marrow, 249 
Boston brown bread, 30 

stew, 97 
Bouillon, 67 



Brains, in batter, 269 

Pickled, 298 
Braised carrots, 128 

steak, 96-97 

turkey. 111 
Braising, Method of, 11-12 
Bran muffins, 30 
Bread crumb omelet, 60 
Bread crumbs, To make, 313 
Bread griddlecakes, 31 

pudding, 309-310 

sauce, 111, 164 

slices, with cheese, 225 

souffle, 256 
Bread making, 28-29 
Breads : Boston brown, 30 

Brown, 31 

Corn, 33 

Fairy corn, 34 

Health, 36 

Liberty, 36 

Nut, 39 

Nut and raisin 39 

Oatmeal, 37 

Pulled, 39 

Raisin, 37 

Rye, 40 

Virginia corn 42 

Wheat 41 
Breakfast puffs without eggs, 31 
Brewis, 46 
Broiled eggplant, 127 

guinea fowl, 120-121 

partridges, 111 

tomatoes, 222 
Broiling Method of, 12 

Time-table for, 327-328 
Broth, Chicken, 269 

Mutton, 76 
Broths, 67 
Brown bread, 31 

Boston, 30 

ice cream, 175 
Brown gravy, 172 

sauce, 164-165 

stock, 65 
Browning for gravies, soup, stews, 

etc., 312 
Brussels sprouts and tomatoes, 136- 

137 
Buckwheat gems, 32 
Bungalow salad, 140 



INDEX 



333 



Butter, How to judge, 8 

Lemon, 305 
Buttermilk, 9 

cake, 201-202 

candy, 276 

dressing, 147 
Butterscotch candy, 276 

Cabbage and ham, 303 

Baked, 125 

Boiled (red), 127 

nut and apple salad, 140-141 

soup, 71 
Cafe au lait, 20 

frappe, 176 
Cakes, How to bake, 199-200 

How to mix, 198-199 
Cakes : Apple-sauce, 200 

Barm brack, 200-201 

Boiled fruit, 201 

Buttermilk, 201-202 

Chess, 202 

Chocolate, 202 

Cocoanut birthday, 203 

Cup, 204 

Custard spice, 203 

Economical chocolate, 204 

Eggless, milkless, butterless, 206 

English pork, 206 

Fruit, without eggs, 206-207 

Layer, with filling, 207 

Lightning mocha, 208 

Luncheon, 208 

Old-fashioned dried apple, 208- 
209 

Premier, 209 

Quick coffee, 209 

Russian, 209-210 

School, 210 

Scotch, 210 

Scotch shortbread, 210-211 

Spice, 211 
Cake surprises, 225 
Candied sweet potatoes, 127-128 
Candy: Buttermilk, 276 

Butterscotch, 276 

Chocolate chips, 277 

Chocolate covering for. 277 

Chocolate nut drops, 278 

Chocolate peppermint, ginger, or 
dates, 278 

Everton, 278-279 



Candy : Fondants for, 279, 283 

Fruit and nut squares, 279-280 

Ginger cream, 280 

Honey fruit, 280 

Honey nut fudge, 280-281 

Lemon taffy, 281 

Marshmallows, 281 

Molasses caramels, 281-282 

Nut and raisin fudge, 282-283 

Nut penuche, 282 

Peanut butter, 283 

Peanut taffy, 283-284 

Peppermint-milk drops, 284 

Popcorn, 284 

Raisin, 284-285 

Squash or Pumpkin, 285-286 

Trench fudge, 286 

Turkish delight, 286 
Candy-making, Directions for, 275- 

276 
Canned apples, cold pack method, 
291 

corn soup, 71 

fish, 295 

green or red peppers, 295-296 

salmon and tomatoes, 83 
Canning, Directions for, 287-288 
Caper sauce, 165 
Capillaire, 18 
Capon, Roast, 118-119 
Caramel, 258 

frosting, 201 
Carbohydrates, 253 
Carrot and rice croquettes, 256 

marmalade, 291-292 

salad, 141 
Carrots a la Flamande, 128 

Braised, 128 
Catchup, Tomato, 300 
Cauliflower and Brussels sprouts 
salad, 141 

Boiled, 126 

Fried, 129 
Celery and cheese salad, 141 

and oysters, 244 

sauce, 110 

Scalloped, 132 
Cereal croquettes, 46-47 

ice cream, 176 

Mixed breakfast, 50 

mush, 47 

with dates, 47 



334 



INDEX 



Cereals, How to cook, 43-44 
Chafing dish. How to use, 223-224 
Cheese and olive sandwiches, 218 

and peanut butter sandwiches, 
218 

and potato puffs, 244 

and potato savory, 244-245 

and tomato savory, 256 

and vermicelli patties, 257 

custard, 245 

cutlets, 303 

olive and nut sandwiches, 219 

omelet, 60 

Potted, 309 

toast, 214 
Cherry dumplings, 154 

salad, 143 

shrub, 18 

tartlets, 192 
Chess cake, 202 
Chestnut custard, 257-258 

fritters, 257 
Chestnuts, Roast (for goose), 116 
Chicken k la Creole, 225 

Baked, 110 

broth, 269 

Coquilles of, 236 

for diabetics. Cream of, 269-270 

fricassee, 114 

in bread patties, Creamed, 236 

pastry, 246 

pie, 112 

pilau, 112-113 
Chiflfonade dressing, 148 
Chili sauce, 296 
Choca, 18 
Chocolate cake, 202 

chips, 277 

covering, 277 

Delicious, 21 

frosting, 211 

Hot, 23 

ice cream, 176 

icing, 203 

nut drops, 278 

peppermints, ginger, or dates, 278 

pie, 192 

pudding, 154 

sauce, 165 
Chops, Baked pork, 94 
Choux pastry, 186 
Chowder, Corn, 72 



Chowder, Fish. 73 
Chutney dressing, 148 
Cider cup, 19 
Clear gravy, 172 

soups, 66 

with rice, 71-72 
Cocoa, 19 

gems, 33 

muffins, 32 
Cocoanut birthday cake, 203 
Cod, How to choose, 2 

Curried, 83 

sounds, 226 

tongues with tomato sauce, 225- 
226 
Codfish balls, 250 

Creamed, 226-227 

salad, 142 
Coffee, 19-20 

Iced, 20 
Coffee frosting, 205-206 

mousse, 176 
Cold broiled tomatoes, 222 

meat patties, 234-235 

salad, 142 
Conserve, Tomato, 300-301 
Consomme, 67 

Cooked meat en casserole, 235 
Coquilles of chicken, 236 
Corn bread, 33 

chowder, 72 

fritters, 226 

omelet, 61 

toast, 214 

To dry, 300 
Corn meal doughnuts, 33-34 

rolls, 34 
Cornish pasties, 245 
Cornstarch pastry, 187 
Cosmopolitan soup, 68 
Cottage cheese. How to make and 
use, 259 

sandwiches, 260 
Cottage pie, 235-236 
Country porridge, 48 
Crab flakes. Creamed, 227 

toast, 215 
Crabs, How to choose, 2 
Cracked wheat, 48 
Cranberry frappe, 177 

pie, 193 

sauce, 165-166 



INDEX 



335 



Cream as food, 313 

cinnamon pie, 193 

nectar, 20 

of chicken, for diabetics, 269-270 

of leek soup, 72 

pastry, 187 

puJBfs, 182 

sauce, 270 

soups, 68 
Creamed chicken in bread patties, 
236 

codfish, 226-227 

crab flakes, 227 
Croquettes, Carrot and rice, 256 

Cereal, 46 

Egg, 56 

Meat and turnip, 239 

Nut, 306 

Shrimp, 188 

Sweet potato and nut, 263 
Croutons for soup, 317 
Crown roast of lamb, 97-98 
Crumb pie, 193 
Cucumber relish, 296-297 

sauce, 166 
Cup cakes, 204 
Currant tartlets 193-194 
Curried cod, 83 

meat, 236 

vegetables, 258 
Custard, Apple, 266 

Apricot, 224 

Cheese, 245 

Chestnut, 257-258 

filHng, 203-204 

sauce, 166 

spice cake, 203 

Steamed, 273-274 

tartlets, 194 
Cutlets, Beef and potato, 233- 
234 

Cheese, 303 

Marinaded, 101-102 

Venison, 121-122 

Dates, Stuffed, 285 
Deviled bananas, 227 

ham and egg sandwiches, 219 

kidneys, 246 

oysters, 83 
Digestion of meats, Time required 
for, 94 



Doughnuts, Corn meal, 33-34 
Dressing, Buttermilk, 147 

Chiffonade, 148 

Chutney, 148 

French, 147-148 

Italian, 148 

Mayonnaise, 148-149 

Roquefort, 148 

Russian, 149 

Salad, 140, 149-150 

Sour cream, 147 
Dried pea kedgeree, 258-259 

peaches or apples, 292 
Drying fruits and vegetables, 288 
Duck, Salmi of, 121 

with turnips, 113-114 
Ducks, How to choose, 6 
Dumplings (for soup), 69 

Cherry, 154 

Norfolk, 306 

Raisin, 309 

Suet, 310 
Dutch stew, 98 

Eclairs, 186 

Economical chocolate cake, 204 

gingerbread, 205 
Eels, How to choose, 2 
Egg and cabbage salad, 142 

sauce (for fish), 88 

toast, 215 
Eggless and milkless gingerbread, 

205-206 
Eggless, milkless, and butterless 

cake, 206 
Eggplant, Broiled, 127 

Stuffed, 134-135 
Eggs : Alpine, 54 

k la Creole, 55 

a la Frankford, 55 

Charlotte, 55 

croquettes, 56 

Griddled, 56-57 

Indian, 57 

in nests, 56 

Poached, in milk, 57 

Scrambled, with tomatoes, 57-58 

Stanley, 58-59 

Steamed, 58 

Tomato, 59 
Eggs, Composition of, 53 

Cooking of, 53 



336 



INDEX 



Eggs, How to test, S 

for breakfast or luncheon, 313 ■ 
Elderberry and apple jelly, 292- 

293 
Emergency soup, 72-73 
Endive, Stewed, 134 
English pork cake, 206 
Evaporated milk jelly, 270 
Everton candy, 278-279 
Everyday pufT pastry, 187 
Exchange sandwiches, 219 

Fairy corn bread, 34 

Farina cakes with cheese, 246-247 

flummery, 49 

mush, 49 
Fat, To clarify, 313 
Fats, 253 
Filling, Custard, 203-204 

for layer cake, 207 

Mocha, 208 
Finnan haddie. Baked, 243 

toast, 217 
First stock, 65 
Fish a la Reine, 227 

Baked, 267 

Boiled, with sauce, 82 

cakes, 85 

Canned, 295 

chowder, 73 

Classes of, 81 

Filleted, baked in batter, 84 

How to choose, 1-3, 81 

Kedgeree of, 86-87 

kromeskies, 85 

Planked, 87 

pudding, 86 

rarebit, 247 

soup, 73 

Steamed, 273 

Steamed salt, 241-242 

Stewed, 272-273 

stock, 65 

Sweet and sour, 71 

What to serve with boiled, 318 
Flaky pastry, 188 
Flounders, Stuffed, 89 

To bake, 89 

To fillet, 84 
Flour, How to test, 8, 28 

Self-raising, 310 
Foamy sauce, 166-167 



Fondant, 279 
Lemon, 283 

Orange, 283 
Food, Amount required, 254-255 

necessities, 253-254 
For creamy fudge, 314 
Frappe, 174 

Cafe, 176 

Cranl)erry, 177 

Tea, 182 
French dressing, 147-148 

pancakes, 303-304 
Fresh herring pie, 247 
Fricassee of chicken, 114 

of guinea fowl, 114-115 

of salmon, 90 
Fried beans, 228 

cauliflower, 129 

gnocchi, 304 

hominy, 45 

tomatoes, 228 
Fritters, Chestnut, 257 

Corn, 226 

Meat, 239-240 
Frosting, Boiled, 207 

Boiled maple, 204 

Caramel, 201 

Chocolate, 203 
Frozen banana custard, 177 

rice pudding, 177 
Fruit and nut squares, 279-280 

cake without eggs, 206-207 

drink, 21 

sandwiches, 220 

sherbet, 178 

soups, 68 
Fruits, Drying, 288 

for salads, 139 
Frumenty, 49 
Frying, Methods of, 14-16 

Time-table for, 328 
Frying bacon or ham, 314 
Fudge, Honey nut, 280-281 

Nut and raisin, 282-283 

To make creamy, 314 

Trench, 286 

Game, How to prepare, 109 

Qualities of, 107 

stock, 65 
Geese, How to choose, 6 
Gems, Buckwheat, 32 



INDEX 



337 



Gems, Cocoa, 33 

Whole wheat, 41 
Gingerade, 22 
Ginger beer, 21 

powder, 22 
Gingerbread, Economical, 205 

Eggless and milkless, 205-20G 

Somerset, 212 

Suffrage, 212 
Ginger cream candy, 280 

pancakes, 35 

pudding with vanilla sauce, 155 

wine, 22 
Glaze (stock), 66 

for coating tongues, ham, etc., 312 
Gnocchi, Fried, 304 
Golden buck, 228 

marmalade, 293 
Goose, Roast, 120 

with chestnuts, 115 
Goulash, Hungarian, 99 
Graham biscuits, 35-36 

wafers, 36 
Grapeade, 23 
Grape juice water ice, 178 
Grated pineapple pie, 194 
Gravy, Brown, 172 

Clear, 172 

Thickened, 171-172 

Tomato, 172 
Green tomato mincemeat, 304 
Green vegetables, How to cook, 

123-124 
Greens, Savory, 132 
Griddlecakes, Bread, 31 

Rye, 38 
Griddled eggs, 56-57 
Grilled venison cutlets, 121-122 
Grilling, see Broiling 
Guinea chicken. Roast, 120 
Guinea fowl. Broiled, 120-121 

Fricassee of, 114-115 

Haddock a la Creme, 86 

and tomatoes, 248 
Halibut, How to choose, 2 
Ham and almond sandwiches, 220 
Ham, baked, 99 

baked in pastry, 98 

breakfast loaf, 248 

How to choose, 4-5 

omelet, 61 



Ham, patties and eggs, 248 

Scalloped, 242 
Hard sauce, 167 
Hares, How to choose, 7 

Jugged, 114 
Hare haricot, 115-116 
Haricot, Hare, 115-116 

Mutton, 237 
Hash, Pepper, 297 
Hashed meat, 237 
Health bread, 36 
Herring roe toast, 215 
Herrings, Baked, 82 

How to choose, 2 
Honey beer, 23 

fruit candy, 280 

nut fudge, 280-281 
Hopping John, 305 
Horse-radish sauce, 168 
Household stock, 65 
How to bake cake, 199-200 
How to choose fish, 1-3, 81 

meat, 3-5 

poultry and game, 5-7 

vegetables, 7-8 
How to cook cereal, 43-44 

vegetables, 123-124 
How to dress poultry and game, 108 
How to judge butter, 8 

lard, 9 

milk, 9 

poultry and game, 106 
How to make cottage cheese, 259 

salads, 138-139 

sandwiches, 213 

soups, 66 

stock, 64-66, 66 

tough meat tender, 314-315 
How to mix cakes, 198-199 

pastry, 183-186 
How to mold ices, 175 
How to prepare poultry and game, 
108-109 

water ice, 174 
How to test eggs, 8 

flour, 8, 28 
How to use a chafing dish, 223-224 
Hungarian goulash, 99 
Hygienic mincemeat, 305 

Ice cream, Apple, 175 
Brown bread, 175 



338 



INDEX 



Ice cream, Cereal, 176 

Chocolate, 176 

Lemon, 178 

Maple nut, 179 

Orange, 179 

Oswego, 180 

Peach, 180 

Peppermint stick, 180-181 

Plum, 181 

Raspberry junket, 181 

Vanilla, 182 

see also under Frappe, Mousse, 
Parfait, Sherbet, Water Ices 
Ices, Kinds of, 174-175 

How to mold, 175 
Icings, see Frosting 
Indian eggs, 57 

pudding (old-fashioned), 156-157 
Invalid soup, 270-271 
Irish moss pudding, 271 

stew, 99-100 
Italian dressing, 148 

sauce, 168 

Jam, Banana and pear, 289 

Black currant, 290-291 

Sugarless, 294 
Jellied cranberries, 166 
Jelly, Barberry, 289-290 

Elderberry and apple, 292-293 

Evaporated milk, 270 

Making of, 287 

Sponge, 156 

Strawberry jam, 273 
Jenny Lind salad, 143 
Jerusalem artichoke pudding, 260 
Jugged hare, 116 

Kabab, 100 

Kedgeree, Dried pea, 258-259 

of fish, 86-87 
Kidney toast, 215-216 
Kidneys, Deviled, 246 

How to choose, 5 
Kohl-rabi, 129 
Kol Dolmer, 100 
Koumiss, 24 

Lamb, Crown roast of, 97-98 

en casserole, 101 

How to choose, 4 

with peppers and potatoes, 238 
Lamb's head, boiled, 95-96 



Lard, How to judge, 9 
Layer cake with filling, 207 
Leeks, Boiled, 126-127 
Lemonade, 24 

Pineapple, 26 

powder, 315 
Lemon butter, 305 

fondant, 283 

ice cream, 178 

sauce, 109 

sirup, 24 

taffy, 281 

tarts, 194-195 
Lemons, To keep, 315 
Lentil rolls, 260 

soup, 75-76 
Lentils, Savory, 262 
Liberty bread, 36 
Lightning mocha cake, 208 
Livers, How to choose, 5 
Loaf, Ham breakfast, 248 

Savory nut, 262 
Lobster sandwiches, 220 

sauce, 167-168 
Lobsters, How to choose, 2 

Stewed, 90 
Loin of veal roasted, 101 
Limcheon cakes, 208 

Macaroni, cheese, and tomatoes, 
228-229 

ragodt, 238 

with cheese, 261 
Mackerel, How to choose, 2 

au gratin, 87 

Soused, 89 
Maple mousse, 178-179 

nut ice cream, 179 
Marinaded cutlets, 101-102 
Marmalade, Apple and orange, 
288-289 

Carrot, 291 

Golden, 293 

Orange, 293, 316 

Orange and pineapple, 293 

Rhubarb, 294 

sauce, 168 

Three-fruit, 294-295 

Tomato, 295 
Marrow bones, 249 
Marshmallow fruit salad, 143 
Marshmallows, 281 



INDEX 



339 



Mashed turnips, 137 
Mayonnaise dressing, 14S-149 
Measures, 329-330 
Meat and rice balls, 238 

and spaghetti au gratin, 238-239 

and turnip croquettes, 239 

chartreuse, 239 

cooked en casserole, 235 

Curried, 236 

fritters, 239-240 

Hashed, 237 

How to make tough, tender, 314- 
315 

Potted cooked, 240-241 

Reheated cold, 233 

souffle, 240 

with onion and hard-cooked 
eggs, 240 
Meats, Extractives in, 93 

Composition of, 93 

Digestion of, 94 

How to choose, 3-5 

What to serve with, 318-320 
Melted butter sauce (sweet), 171 
Menus, 321-325 
Milk, How to judge, 9 

sherbet, 179 
Minced steak pie, 249 
Mincemeat, Green tomato, 304 

Hygienic, 305 
Mint sauce, 169 
Mixed breakfast cereal, 50 
Mixed pickle, 297 
Mocha filling, 208 
Molasses caramels, 281-282 

pie, 195 

sauce, 169 
Mountain dew pudding, 156 
Mousse, 175 

Cofifee, 176 

Maple, 178-179 
Muffins, Bran, 30 

Cocoa, 32 
Mush, Cereal, 47 

Corn meal, 47 

Farina, 49 

Rye, 52 
Mushrooms with eggs, 229 
Mussels a la Marinilre, 229 
Mustard sauce, 169-170 
Mutton, Boiled neck or shoulder of, 
96 



Mutton broth, 76 
haricot, 237 

hot pot with dumpling, 102 
How to choose, 3-4 
Shoulder of, 104 

Noodles with cheese, 249-250 
Norfolk dumplings, 306 
Nourishing pudding, 271 
Nut and raisin brown bread, 39 
Nut and raisin fudge, 282-283 
Nut'bread, 39 

croquettes, 306 

loaf, 262 

penuche, 282 

sandwiches, 220-221 

stuffing, 307 

Oatmeal and apple pudding, 261 
Oatmeal and cheese, 50 

porridge, 50 
Oatmeal and cocoa cooler, 26 

bread, 37 

pudding, 156 
Okra with corn and tomatoes, 261 
Old-fashioned dried apple cake, 208 
Olives, Beef, 95 
Omelet, Asparagus, 59 

Baked sweet, 59-60 

Bread crumb, 60 

Cheese, 60 

Corn, 61 

Ham, 61 

Picnic, 62-63 

Plain, 62 

Salmon, 62-63 

Savory, 63 

souffle, 61 

Spinach, 63 
Omelets, Making of, 54 

Kinds of, 54 
Onion and sage stuffing, 307 

pastry, 246 

soup, 76 
Onions, Stuffed, 135 
Orange and date salad, 144 

and pineapple marmalade, 293 

fondant, 283 

ice cream, 179 

marmalade, 293, 316 

parfait, 179-180 

pudding, 154 

salad, 144 



340 



INDEX 



OrRcat water. 2fi 
Oswego ice cream, 180 
Oyster and celery salad, 144 

shortcake, 307-308 

soup, 76 

stuffing, 308 
Oyster plant, see Salsify, 131 
Oysters i\ la Francesca, 229-230 

How to choose, 3 

Deviled, 83 

Scalloped, 91 
Ox tail with vegetables, 102-103 

Pancakes, French, 303-304 

Ginger, 35 

Savory, 35 

without eggs, 35 
Parfait, Orange, 179-180 
Parsnip soup, 77 
Parsnips, Boiled, 130 
Partridges, Broiled, 111 
Pasties, Apple, 246 

Bacon and potato, 246 

Chicken, 246 

Cornish, 245 

Onion, 246 
Pastry : Choux, 186 

Cornstarch, 187 

Cream, 187 

Everyday puff, 187 

Flaky, 188 

Plain, 188 

Potato, 189 

Rich short crust, 189 

Short, 189 

Suet, 190 

Whole wheat puff, 190-191 
Pastry, Boiled, 185 

Heat for cooking, 184-185 

How to mix, 183-186 

Kinds of, 183 

To freshen, 315 
Patties, Cheese and vermicelli, 257 

Cold meat, 234-235 
Pea and sardine salad, 144 
Pea soup, 77 
Peas k Maitre d'Hdtel. 130 

To dry, 292 
Peach ice cream, 180 

pie, 195 

shortcake (sliced), 160 
Peaches, Dried, 292 



Peanut butter candy, 283 
Peanut pudding, Baked, 255 

taffy, 283-284 
Peel, To soften hard candied, 316 
Penuche, Nut, 282 
Pepper hash, 297 

nut and cheese salad, 145 
Peppers, Canned green or red, 295- 
296 

Stuffed, 135-136 
Peppermint milk drops, 284 

stick ice cream, 180 
Perfection pie, 195 
Persimmon pudding, 157 
Pickled brains, 298 

green tomatoes, 298 

pumpkin, 298 

tongues, 298 
Pickle, Mixed, 297 
Pickles, Directions for making, 288 

Sweet cucumber, 299 
Picnic omelet, 62 
Pies : Bean, 256 

Chicken, 112 

Chocolate, 192 

Cottage, 235-236 

Cranberry, 193 

Cream cinnamon, 193 

Crumb, 193 

Fresh herring, 247 

Grated pineapple, 194 

Minced steak, 249 

Molasses, 195 

Peach, 195 

Perfection, 195 

Potato and oyster, 309 

Rabbit, 118 

Raisin, 196 

Raisin and apple, 196 

Rhubarb, 196-197 

Sour cream, 197 

Strawberry custard, 197 

Tyler, 197 

Vegetable, 264 
Pigeons, How to choose, 7 

en casserole, 116 

with spaghetti, 117 
Pigs (sucking). Roasted, 105 
Pigs' feet with sauce, 103 
Pilau, Chicken, 112-113 
Pineapple lemonade, 26 

salad, 145 



INDEX 



341 



Pineapple sherbet, 181 

trifles, 155 
Piguante sauce, 170 
Planked fish, 87 

pastry, 188 
Plum ice cream, 181 

pudding, 157 
Poached eggs in milk, 57 
Pork chops. Baked, 94 
Pork, How to choose, 4 
Porridge, Country, 48 

cakes, 51 

Oatmeal, 50 

Rolled Oats, 51 
Popcorn, 276 

candy, 284 
Potato, 145-146 

and cauliflower salad, 145 

and oyster pie, 308 

parings, 315 

pastry, 189 

souffle, 131-132 

soup, 77 
Potatoes and turnips, 131 

au gratin, 131 

Savory, 251-252 

Sweet, candied, 127-128 
sugared, 128 
Potted beans, 261-262 

cheese, 309 

cooked meat, 240-241 

salmon, 241 
Poultry and Game, How to choose, 
5-7 

How to dress, 108 

How to judge, 106 

How to prepare, 106 
Poultry or game, Barbecue of, 224 
Prawns, How to choose, 2 
Premier cake, 209 
Preserved strawberries, 293-294 
Preserving, Fruits for, 287 

Utensils for, 287 
Proteids, 253, 254-255 
Prune roll, 158 

salad, 146 

water, 26 

whip, 158 
Puddings : Apple custard, 152 

Apple roll and sauce, 152-153 

Baked apple and rice, 153 

Baked marrow, 244 



Puddings: Baked peanut, 255 

Baked rice, 153-154 

Cherry dumplings, 154 

Chocolate, 152 

Dandy orange, 154-155 

Fish, 86 

Ginger, with vanilla sauce, 155 

Indian (old-fashioned), 156-157 

Irish moss, 155, 271 

Jelly sponge, 156 

Jerusalem artichoke, 260 

Mountain dew, 156 

Nourishing, 271 

Oatmeal, 156 

Oatmeal and apple, 261 

Persimmon, 157 

Pineapple trifles, 155 

Plum, 157 

Prune roll, 158 

Prune whip, 158 

Rhubarb shortcake, 158 

Rice and date, 159 

Rolled oats, 159 

Savory bread, 309 

Sliced peach shortcake, 160 

Spaghetti and fruit, 273 

Strawberry ring, 160 

Strawberry shortcake, 159-160 

Steamed meat, 161-162 

Steamed shortcake, 160-161 

Wild wood, 161 
Puddings, Cooking of, 151-152 

Ingredients for, 151 
PuUed bread, 39 
Pumpkin, Pickled, 298 
Punch, Tea, 27 
Puree, 67 

Bean, with grated cheese, 69 

Tomato, 118 

Quick coffee cake, 209 

Rabbit en casserole, 117 

pie, 118 

Stewed, 121 

with rice, 118 
Rabbits, How to choose, 7 
Rago<it, Macaroni, 238 
Raisin and apple pie, 196 

bread, 37 

candy, 284-285 

dumplings, 309 



342 



INDEX 



Raisin pie, 196 

scones, 40 

with oil, 312 
Rarebit, Fish, 247 

Welsh, 231-232 
Raspberry junket ice cream, 181 

vinegar, 27 
Raw beef sandwiches, 271-272 
Red cabbage and celery salad, 146 
Rhubarb beverage, 17 

marmalade, 294 

pie, 196-197 

relish, 299 

shortcake, 158 
Rice and date pudding, 159 

Boiled, 45-46 

soup, 78 

Spanish, 310 

water, 272 
Rich short crust pastry, 189 
Roast capon with Piquante stuffing, 
118-119 

chicken \\ath oyster stuffing, 119 

goose, 120 

guinea chicken, 120 

Vegetarian, 264 
Roasted beef, Virginia style, 103- 

104 
Roasting, Process of, 10-11 
Roes, Shad, 230 
Rolled oats porridge, 51 

pudding, 159 

sandwiches, 221 
Rolls, Corn meal, 34 

Lentil, 260 
Root vegetables, 123 

How to cook, 123-124 
Roquefort dressing, 148 
Rose sauce, 170 
Russian cake, 209-210 

dressing, 149 
Rye bread, 40 

griddlecakes, 38 

meal mush, 52 

Sago in gravy, 272 

Salad dressing, 140, 149-150 

Salad, Banana, 139 

Beet and cabbage, 140 

Bungalow, 140 

Cabbage, apple and nut, 140-141 

Carrot, 141 



Salad, Cauliflower and Brussels 
sprouts, 141 

Celery and cheese, 141 

Codfish, 142 

Cold meat, 142 

Egg and cabbage, 142 

Individual cherry, 143 

Jenny Lind, 143 

Marshmallow fruit, 143-144 

Orange, 142 

Orange and date, 144 

Oyster and celery, 144 

Peas and sardine, 144 

Pepper, nut, and cheese, 145 

Pineapple, 145 

Potato and cauliflower, 145 

Potato, 145-146 

Prune, 146 

Red cabbage and celery, 146 

Tuna fish, 146 

Winter, 147 
Salads, Fruits for, 139 

How to make, 138-139 
Salmi of duck, 121 
Salmon, Baked, 82 

Canned, and tomatoes, 83 

fricassee, 90 

How to choose, 2 

omelet, 62-63 

Potted, 241 

roll, with egg sauce, 87 
Salsify, scalloped, 133 
Salts and vegetable acids, 253 
Sandwiches, How to make, 213 
Sandwiches : Baked bean, 217 

Beef and egg, 218 

Cheese and olive, 218 

Cheese and peanut butter, 218 

Cheese, olive, and nut, 219 

Cottage cheese, 260 

Deviled ham and egg, 219 

Exchange, 219 

Fruit, 220 

Ham and almond, 220 

Lobster, 220 

Nut, 220-221 

Raw beef, 271-272 

Rolled, 221 

Rolled celery, 221 

Sausage and pickle, 221 

Sweet chocolate, 221 

Tomato, 222 



INDEX 



343 



Sardines with chili sauce, 230 

with sauce, 250 
Sauces, Uses of, 163 

Kinds of, 163-164 
Sauces : Apple, 164 

Bread, 111, 164 

Brown, 164-165 

Caper, 165 

Celery, 110 

Chocolate, 165 

Cranberry, 165 

Cranberries (jellied), 166 

Cream, 270 

Cucumber, 166 

Custard, 166 

Egg, 88 

Foamy, 166-167 

for apple rolls, 153 

Fresh berry, 167 

Gravy, see under Gravy 

Hard, 167 

Horse-radish, 168 

Italian, 168 

Lemon, 169 

Lobster, 167-168 

Marmalade, 168 

Mint, 169 

Molasses, 169 

Mustard, 169 

Piquante, 170 

Rose, 170 

Savory jelly, 170 

Sour cream, 171 

Sweet melted butter, 171 

Tomato, 173 

White, 173 
Sausage and pickle sandwiches, 221 

loaf with brown sauce, 251 

in potatoes, 251 
Sauteing, Process of, 16 
Savory bread pudding, 309-310 

Cheese and tomato, 256 

greens, 132 

jelly sauce, 170-171 

lentils, 262 

nut loaf, 262 

omelet, 63 

pancakes, 35 

peppers with onion, 230 

potatoes, 251-252 
Scalloped celery, 132 

salsify or oyster plant, 133-134 



Scalloped ham, 242 

oysters, 91 
Scallops on skewers, 88 
School cake, 210 
Scones, Raisin, 40 

Tea, 41 
Scotch cakes, 210 

shortbread, 210-211 
Scrambled eggs with tomatoes, 57-58 
Second stock, 65 
Self-raising flour, 310 
Shad roes, 230 
Sherbet, 174, 175 

Fruit, 178 

MUk, 179 

Pineapple, 181 

Strawberry, 182 
Shortbread, Scotch, 210-211 
Shortcake, Oyster, 307-308 

Peach, 160 

Rhubarb, 158 

Steamed, 160-161 

Strawberry, 159-160 
Short pastry, 189 
Shoulder of mutton, 104 
Shrimp croquettes, 88-89 
Shrimps, How to choose, 2 

Food value of, 89 
Skate, How to choose, 2 
Smelts, Baked, 267 

How to choose, 2 

Stuffed, 90 
Sommerset gingerbread, 212 
Souffle, Bread, 256 

Meat, 240 

Omelet, 61 

Potato, 131-132 

Tuna fish, 91-92 
Soup, Apricot, 68 

Beef, with savory dtunpling, 69 

Black bean, 70 

Cabbage, 71 

Canned corn, 71 

Clear, with rice, 71-72 

Cream of leek, 72 

Emergency, 72-73 

Fish, 73 

Giblet, 74 

Invalid, 270-271 

Lentil, 75-76 

Maigre, 78-79 

Onion, 76 



344 



INDEX 



Soup, Oyster, 76-77 

Parsnip, 77 

Pea, 77 

Potato, 77-78 

Rice, 78 

St. Germain, 78 

Strawberry, 80 

Tomato, 79 

Vegetable, 79 
Soups, How to make, 66 

Kinds of, 66-68 
Soups : Clear, 66 
Broths, 67 
Bouillon, 67 
Consomme, 67 

Thick, 67 
Bisques, 67 
Cream, 68 
Cosmopolitan, 68 
Fruit, 68 
P\irees, 67 
Sour cream dressing, 147 

pie, 197 

sauce, 171 

waffles, 38 
Soused mackerel, 89 
Southern waffles, 38 
Spaghetti and fruit pudding, 273 
Spanish rice, 310 
Spice bag. To make, 316 
Spice cake, 211 
Spiced beef, 104-105 
Spinach, Dressed, 129 

omelet, 63 

timbale, 133-134 
Split peas and onions, 262-263 
Squash, Baked, 136 

or pumpkin candy, 285 

puff, 136 
Stanley eggs, 58 
Steak, Braised, 96-97 
Steamed custard, 273-274 

eggs, 58 

fish, 273 

meat pudding, 161-162 

salt fish mold, 241-242 

shortcake, 160-161 
Steaming, Method of, 14 
Stew, Boston, 97 

Dutch, 98 

Irish, 99-100 
Stewed endive, 134 



Stewed fish, 272-273 

lobster, 90 

rabbit, 121 
Stewing, Methods of, 16 
Stews, To thicken, 316 
St. Germain soup, 78 
Stock, Bone, 70-71 

Brown, 74 

How to make, 64-65, 66 

Kinds of, 65-66 

To remove fat from, 75 

White, 75 
Strawberries, Preserved. 293-294 
Strawberry custard pie, 197 

jam jelly, 273 

ring, 160 

sherbet, 182 

shortcake, 159-160 

soup, 80 
Stuffed and roasted beef heart, 94-95 
Stuffed dates, 285 

eggplant, 134-135 

flounders, 89 

Globe artichokes, 132-133 

onions, 135 

peppers, 135-136 

smelts, 90 

tomatoes, 136 
Stuffing, Nut, 307 

Onion and sage, 307 

Oyster, 308 
Succotash, 263 
Sucking pig roasted, 105 
Suet, How to choose, 5 

dumplings, 310 

pastry, 190 
Suffrage gingerbread, 212 
Sugared sweet potatoes, 128 
Sugarless jam, 294 
Sweet and sour fish, 91 
Sweetbreads in grav3^ 106 
Sweet chocolate sandwiches, 221 
Sweet cucumber pickles, 299 
Sweet potato and nut croquettes, 

263 
Sweet potatoes and marshmallows, 
311 

Tartlets, Banbubt, 191-192 
Cherry, 192 
Currant, 193-194 
Custard, 194 



INDEX 



345 



Tarts, Lemon, 194-195 
Tea, 25-26 
Beef, 268 
{rapp6, 182 
punch, 27 
scones, 41 
Thickened gravy, 171-172 
Three-fniit marmalade, 294-295 
Timbale, Spinach, 133-134 
Time-table for baking, 326-327 
for boiling, 327 
for broiling, 327-328 
for frying, 328 
Toast, Baked French, 213-214 
Cheese, 214 
Corn, 214 
Crab, 215 
Egg, 215 

Finnan haddie, 217 
Herring roe, 215 
Kidney, 215-216 
Tomato and cheese, 216 
Tongue, 216 
Veal, 216 
To clarify fat, 313 
To cover a pudding with paper, 313 
To cure tongues, 299-300 
To dry corn, 300 

peas, 292 
To freshen pastry, 315 
To keep lemons, 315 
To make a spice bag, 316 
bread crumbs, 313 
crotitons for soup, 317 
tough meat tender, 314-315 
Tomato and cheese toast, 216 
catchup, 300 
conserve, 300-301 
eggs, 59 
gravy, 172 
hot pot, 311 
marmalade, 295 
puree, 118 
sandwiches, 222 
sauce, 173 
sauce and eggs, 231 
Boup, 79 
wiggle, 231 
Tomatoes and Brussels sprouts 
136-137 
Cold broiled, 222 
Fried, 228 



Tomatoes, Pickled green, 298 

Stuffed, 136 

with cheese, 252 
Tongue en casserole, 106 

Pickled, 298-299 

toast, 216 

To cure, 299-300 

with tomato sauce. Cod, 225- 
226 
To remove smell of onions, 315 
To soften hard candied peel, 316 
To thicken stews, 316 
Trench fudge, 286 
Tripe and oysters, 231 

en casserole, 107 

Parisienne style, 252 
Trout, How to choose, 2 
Tuna fish salad, 146 

souffl§, 91-92 
Tiu-key, Boiled, 110 

Braised, 111 
Turkeys, How to choose, 6-7 
Turkish delight, 286 
Turnips, Mashed, 137 
Tyler pie, 197-198 

Vanilla ice cream, 182 

sandwiches, 182 

sponge dainties, 274 
Veal, How to choose, 3 

Loin of, roasted, 101 

toast, 216 
Vegetable diet, 254 

pie, 264 

soup, 79 

stock, 65 
Vegetables, Classes of, 123 

Curried, 258 

Drying, 288 

How to choose, 7-8 

How to cook, 123-124' 

What to serve with, 320 
Vegetarian roast, 264 
Venison, How to choose, 5 

cutlets, grilled, 121-122 
Vermicelli with tomato sauce, 265 
Virginia corn bread, 42 

Wafers, Graham, 36 
Waffles, Sour cream, 38 
Southern, 38 



346 



INDEX 



Water, 253 

Barley, 267-268 

to serve with fruit, 268 

Rice, 272 
Water ice, How to prepare, 174 

Grape juice, 178 
Weights, 329-330 
Welsh Rarebit, 231-232 
What to serve with boiled fish, 318 

with meats, 318-320 



What to serve with vegetables, 

320 
Wheat bread, 41 
White sauce, 173 

stock, 65 
Whole wheat gems, 41-42 

pufiF paste, 190-191 
Why batter is beaten, 314 
Wild wood pudding, 161 
Winter salad, 147 



IRON-REFERt 




CAROLINE KING'S COOK BOOK 



By CAROLINE B. KING 

MRS. KING has approached the science of cookery from 
a new angle. She has gone to the very root of the 
principles of cookery, and presented them in a way 
entirely novel. 

Mrs. King's intention has been to supply a systematic 
knowledge of how foods are prepared for the table, instead of 
an analysis of food values or a list of recipes. From this book 
the housewife with little experience will learn the essential 
rudiments of cookery, and comprehend how to build upon a 
basic formula so that any dish, however elaborate it may 
sound, or any combination of food materials may be under- 
taken confidently and successfully. 

Illustrated. 31.50 net. 



THE BOSTON COOKING-SCHOOL 
COOK BOOK 



By FANNIE MERRITT FARMER 

CONTAINS 2,117 thoroughly tested recipes, from the 
simple and economical to the elaborate and expensive. 
It contains the classification and correct proportions 
of food, tables of measurement and weights, time-table for 
cooking, menus and much information not to be found else- 
where. 

"The best cook book on the market." — Woman's Worlds 
New York. 

"The recipes are compounded with a knowledge of the 
science of cooking." — 'The Outlook^ New York. 

"The most complete book for general knowledge to the ex- 
perienced as well as the inexperienced housewife." — Chicago 
Evening Post. 



130 illustrations. 648 pages. 32.00 net. 

LITTLE, BROWN & CO., Publishers, Boston 



PRACTICAL FOOD ECONOMY 



By ALICE GITCHELL KIRK 

IN WORDS that all, young or old, experienced or inex- 
perienced, may understand, a widely known lecturer on 
home economics here presents practical truths on economy 
in foods, shows how to have well-balanced meals and gives 
helpful suggestions for buying, preparing and cooking with- 
out waste. Particular emphasis is laid on the value of various 
foods in relation to the body, their purpose, and the quantities 
needed for the average family of four. The book answers the 
questions which women have asked Mrs. Kirk many times 
as she has lectured for the past eleven years before them. 

With illustrations. 31.25 net. 



MARKETING AND HOUSEWORK 
MANUAL 



ByS. AGNES DONHAM 
Instructor in Household Management, Garland School 
of Homemaking, Boston 

THIS book deals with marketing, and contains sets of 
marketing charts for meat, fish, groceries, fruit and 
vegetables, with directions for the choice, purchase 
and care of common foodstuffs. Methods of planning meals 
are indicated, and there is a form for menu sheets for house- 
keepers who wish to keep their food records systematically. 

The book also gives brief rules for the care of the house, 
with directions for each process, and lists of necessary ma- 
terials and utensils. 

Any woman wanting to run her house in an orderly, busi- 
nesslike way will find this book invaluable. 

31.50 net, 

LITTLE, BROWN & CO., Publishers, Boston 



THE NEW 

REF 

This book is 
tak 


r YORK PUBLIC LIBRARY 
ERHNGB DEPARTMENT 


under no circumstances to be 
en from the Building 


' 






■^--.i 








. 




er, p 




?ii,r A. ■■■ •■ ■ • 


































































foilM 410 


m^.. 



Google 



This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on Hbrary shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 

to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 

to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 

are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other maiginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 

publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing this resource, we liave taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 
We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain fivm automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attributionTht GoogXt "watermark" you see on each file is essential for informing people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liabili^ can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 

at |http : //books . google . com/| 



I 



uSdcuffe comcE ubraBJ 

Arthur and Elizabeth 
schlesinger library 

ON THE 

History of Women in America 



GIFT OF 

Mri. H«rtiert B. H««mar 




/ 



^ 



ECONOMICAL COOKERY 



CBBAURn Chickbn 1 



I Koos. Fwje 2i0. 



ECONOMICAL COOKERY 



MARION HARRIS NEIL 



WITH ILLUSTRATIOyS 
FROM FEOTOasAFSS 



BOSTON 

LITTLE, BROWN, AND COMPANY 

1918 



VauV-V- 

G4I.5 



Copyright^ 1918, 
Bt Littlb, Bsowv, akd Gompaitt. 



All righU reserved 



Set up and clectrotTped by J. S. Curiimg Co., Norwood, Mass., U.S.A. 
Pivaswork by S. J. Parkhill & Co., Boston, Mass., U.S.A, 



117 



PREFACE 

Thb present volume has been prepared with great care ; every 
recipe has been tested and tried, and will be found to meet the 
requirements of housekeepers of all classes. Young housewives 
^o are novices in the culinary art will find it of service as a 
book of reference, while older house mothers who are experts, 
and who have been cooks for years to their family circle, may 
discover in its pages some helpful hint or serviceable recipe 
hitherto unknown. I have confined my attention strictly 
and exclusively to Economical Cookery, for I believe it is in this 
direction that improvement is chiefly needed. I have not 
sought to furnish an array of dishes requiring in their preparation 
costly ingredients, and an acquaintance with the art — for 
cookery is an art, and a very fine art too — far beyond that 
which may be readily gathered from a little experience and the 
exercise of a little common sense. 

Those who have accustomed themselves to " fare sumptuously 
every day'' would perhaps find it to their advantage to think 
rather less of extravagant living than they now do. It is the 
everyday food of everyday people which needs to be chosen 
more judiciously, cooked more skillfully, and served more in- 
vitingly than it now is. 

Marion Habbib Nbil. 



I 

II 

III 

IV 

V 

VI 

vn 

VIII 

IX 

X 

XI 

XII 

XlII 

XIV 

XV 

XVI 

XVII 

XVIII 

XIX 

XX 

XXI 

XXII 

XXIII 

xxrv 

XXV 
XXVI 



CONTENTS 

PAOB 

Pbeface V 

How TO Choose Our Food .... 1 
The Processes of Cookery . . • .10 

Beverages 17 

Bread, Biscuits, Muffins, Rolls, etc. . 28 

Cereals 43 

Eggs and Omelets 53 

Stocks and Soups 64 

Fish 81 

Meato 93 

Poultry and Game 108 

Vegetables 123 

Salads and Salad Dressings .... 138 

Puddings 151 

Sweet and Savory Sauces .... 163 

Ice Creams and Ices 174 

Pastries, Pies, and Tartlets. . . . 183 
Cakes, Fillings, and Frostings . • . 198 

Toasts and Sandwiches 213 

Chafing-Dish Cookery 223 

Cold Meat Cookery ..... 233 
Breakfast, Luncheon, and Supper Dishes . 243 

Vegetarian Dishes 253 

Invalid Cookery 266 

Candies 275 

Preserving and Pickling .... 287 

Miscellaneous 302 

vu 



*•• 



VIU CONTBNTB 

CHAFTBB PAOa 

XXVII Wrinkles 312 

XXVIII What to Sbbvb with Fish, Mbatb, and Vbob- 

TABLBB 318 

XXIX Menus 321 

XXX Time-Tablb for Cooking 326 

XXXI Weights and Measures 329 

Index 331 



LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS 

Vogetarian Roaet; Creamed Chicken in Bread Pattfes; 
Meat with Onion and Hard-Cooked Eggs . Frontispiece 

Fadng Poo* 

A Place for Everything. Everything in Its Place 16 

Making Cocoa 17 

Choca 17 

Hot Chocolate 26 

CofFee for Breakfast 26 

Tea with a Russian Samovar 27 

Qraham Biscuits 27 

Brown Bread 34 

Raisin Bread 34 

Bread Cutters 35 

Whole Wheat Gems 35 

Farina Mush 52 

Cereal with Dates 52 

Eggs in Nests 52 

Making Egg Dishes 53 

Making an Omelet 53 

Making Stocks for Soups 53 

Dumplings in Japanese Casserole 80 

Soup Maigre, served "en Marmite" 80 

Making Strawberry Soup 80 

looting a Flounder 81 

Planked Fish 81 

Fish Cakes 81 

Ham Baked in Pastry 106 

Loin of Veai, Roasted 106 

Removing the Tendons from Turkey .... 107 

Rabbit en Casserole 107 

Stuffed Egg Plant with Eggs 136 

Stewed Endive 136 

Stuffed Tomatoes 136 

Cauliflower and Brussels Sprouts Salad .... 137 

Marshmallow Fruit Salad 137 



X LIST OP ILLUSTRATIONS 

Facing Page 

Cabbage, Apple, and Nut Salad 137 

Rice and Date Pudding 160 

Strawberry Ring 160 

Steamed Meat Pudding 161 

Making Tough Meat Tender 161 

Making Piquante Sauce 174 

Making Molasses Sauce 174 

Apple Ice Cream 174 

Peach Ice Cream 175 

Maple Nut Ice Cream 175 

Rolling Out Pastry 175 

Raisin and Apple Pie 198 

Rhubarb Pie 198 

Peach Pie 198 

Cocoanut Birthday Cake 199 

Eggiess, Milkless, and Butterless Cake . . . .199 

Quick Coffee Cake 212 

Assorted Cakes 212 

Afternoon Tea Sandwiches 213 

Using Electric Chafing Dish 213 

Assorted Sandwiches 213 

Deviled Bananas 230 

Potted Sahnon 230 

Savory Peppers with Onion 230 

Cornish Pasty 231 

Celery and Oysters 231 

Marrow Bones Ready for the Oven 258 

Curried Vegetables 258 

Split Peas and Onions 258 

Stewed Fish . . 259 

Cabbage and Ham 259 

Invahd Dishes 259 

Making Candy with Aid of Thermometer .... 286 

Assorted Candies 286 

For PickHng Time 287 

Apple and Orange Marmalade 287 

A Canner for Canning Fruits and Vegetables . . . 300 

A Spring Luncheon Table 301 

A St. Valentine Table 301 



ECONOMICAL COOKERY 

CHAPTER I 

HOW TO CHOOSE OUR FOOD 

Monet can be spent to infinitely better advantage in the store 
than by giving orders at the door, by mail, or telephone. Every 
housekeeper knows how large a proportion of the housekeeping 
money is swallowed by the butcher's bill, so that with the meat 
item careful selection is most necessary in order to keep the bills 
within bounds. 

In choosing meat of any kind, the eye, the nose, and the 
touch are really required, although it is not appetizing to see 
the purchaser use more than the eye. 

FISH 

Any fish intended for cooking purposes must be in season and 
must be fresh. Fish is out of season and therefore not so good 
during the period of spawning, the flesh being watery, flabby, 
and without much flavor. 

Fresh fish are hard when pressed by the finger, the eyes full 
and the gills red. If the flesh is flabby and the eyes simken, the 
fish are stale and inferior. Plenty of scales on scaly fish usually 
indicate freshness. The spots or marks on such fish as mackerel 
should be clear and bright, but one of the best tests is the smell, 
which should be fresh and not unpleasant. The girth of a fish 
should be large in comparison to its length. In choosing cut 
fish, such as cod, halibut, and salmon, the flesh should have a 
fine appearance with a close grain ; if it looks fibrous, loose, and 
watery, it is not good. Never choose fish that is bruised or has 
the skin broken, as it will not keep well. Fish that is frozen 

1 



2 ECONOMICAL COOKEBT 

should be thawed by letting it lie in cold water before it is used. 
Do not aUow it to remain in the water longer than is necessary. 

Salmon should have a small head and tail, full thick shoulders, 
dean silvery scales, and flesh of a bright rich yellowish red. 

When quite fresh there is a white curd between the flesh, 
which is stiff and hard ; but if kept, this melts, softening the 
flesh and rendering it richer, but at the same time less digestible. 

Trout, in spite of the difference in size, may be judged by the 
same rule as salmon. It will not, however, bear keeping, 
deteriorating rapidly. 

Cod should have a large head and thick shoulders, a small tail, 
the flesh white and clear, and the skin silvery and clean. 

Skate should be white, thick, broad, and creamy. 

Mackerel must be very fresh when eaten, or it is not whole- 
some. The fish should be pearly white underneath, and the 
markings very bright and distinct. Small or medium-^ized fish 
are the best. 

Smelts should be silvery and stiff, with a delicate odor faintly 
suggestive of a cucumber newly cut. 

Eels are best bought alive to insure absolute freshness. They 
should be soaked in salt and water some time before cooking. 
Eels are valuable on account of their nutritive properties, and 
as they are rich in themselves, they are best cooked and served 
very simply. 

To skin an eel. First cut off the head.. Then turn back the 
skin at the top, and draw it downwards, turning it outside in. 
Eels about two pounds in weight are usually preferred. 

Herrings must be absolutely fresh to be good, and when in this 
state their scales shine like silver. If kept overlong, their eyes 
become suffused with blood, a sure sign that the fish is stale. 

Halibut is a wholesome fish. It should be moderate-6ized, 
thick, and of a white color, the skin tight and unwrinkled. 

Shrimpt, Prawns, Crabs, and Lobsters should be heavy for their 
size. The tails should clip tightly against the bodies, and spring 
back quickly into position when pulled out straight and then 
loosened. Lobsters having thick shells, broad tails, with a few 
black markings, are usually the best. Crabs are bad if they are 
light and limp. 



HOW TO CHOOSE OUB FOOD 3 

Oysteiti must be eaten only when in season and they must be 
very fresh. The shell should close sharply on the knife when it 
is inserted. If the shell is a little open, the fish is not in its 
primary freshness, and if it remains open, the oyster should not 
be consumed. 

MBATS 

Beef. In selecting beef, choose that of a fine smooth grain, of a 
rich red color, with cream-colored or pale yellow fat. If the lean 
portion is of a pale color, then it is probably cut from a diseased 
or a poorly nourished animal, while if of a very dark color, then 
the animal was not in good condition when killed, or had not 
been slaughtered. The best beef has a mottled appearance with 
fat, little odor, and that not unpleasant. Meat should not be 
moist and watery, and if proi)erly cooked it should not shrink 
or waste greatly. 

One test of the good quality of meat is the condition of the 
tongue ; if this be clean skinned, plimip, with the fat at the root 
inclining to a pinky white, the flesh will be tender and in con- 
dition ; but if, on the contrary, it be rough, dark, and with dead 
white fat the meat will be tasteless and hard. 

Veal is the flesh of the calf. It is at its best when the calf is 
three to four months old, when the meat should be of a close 
fine grain, white in color, with the fat inclining to a pinkish 
tii^^. The kidney should be smaU, free from discoloration, and 
wrapped in plenty of firm white fat. Like all young meat, veal 
very rapidly turns sour, so must be cooked speedily. The head 
should be firm and clean skinned, the eyes clear and full, the 
liver a dark rich clear color, free from any spots, while the 
sweetbreads should be plump, of a delicate color, and free from 
strings. Veal is not considered to be very digestible, and if it 
is very young it contains little nourishment. 

It stands lowest among heat producing meat, and for that 
reason requires to be eaten with rice, potatoes, bacon, etc.; 
these also help to redeem its lack of flavor. If veal is cooked 
slowly and thoroughly, it is a most useful meat, and will furnish 
quite a variety of tasty dishes. 

Mutton. The lean should be finely grained and a clear, dark 
red, with the bones small. The fat should be dear, white, and 



4 BCONOMICAL COOKEBT 

very hard. Mutton stands next to beef in nutritive qualities, 
and for some people it is of more value as food because it is more 
easily digested, its fibers being shorter and more tender. It has, 
however, a strong flavor. Age has a great deal to do with the 
quality of the mutton. From four to fiv^ years old is the best 
age for killing, but the sheep are generally killed between two and 
three years of age. 

Lamb is immature meat, needs thorough cooking, and does not 
keep well. It is paler in color than mutton, and the fat is pearly 
white and should have no tinge of yellow. When lamb is fresh, 
the veins in the neck end of the f orequarter have a bluish tinge, 
and when stale these develop a greenish hue. In the hind- 
quarters the kidneys and the fat round them should be ex- 
amined ; if they are flabby, \dth an unpleasant smell, the meat 
is stale. 

Pork. To be delicate, pork must be small and not too fat. 
The fat should be very firm and white, the lean a delicate brown- 
ish pink, close grained, firm textured, and free from any kind of 
spots or kernels, these always denoting the presence of one or 
other of the parasites with which the flesh of pigs is specially 
liable to become infested. Pork contains an excess of fat, and 
is the one meat which is rendered more wholesome with salting. 
Never buy it in warm weather ; an old but wise rule is to permit 
it on the table only in those months that have an " R " in 
their spelling. The skin must not be too thick, and it must be 
elastic and smooth. 

Sucking pigs should be small, and are at their best when about 
four weeks old. A sucking pig should be cooked as soon as pos- 
sible after it is killed, as it taints quickly ; unless very fresh, no 
care in the cooking will make the crackling cnsp and delicious 
as it should be. 

Bacon must be fresh and free from any unpleasant odor. The 
grain should be fine, the lean of a bright pink, and the fat firm 
and white. There should be as little gristle as possible. Bacon 
varies much in price, according to cut and quality. 

Ham. Choose a short thick leg with a moderate amount of 
fat. The rind should be rather thin and the bone fine. In 
selecting a[ ham always run a pointed knife or skewer in close 



HOW TO CHOOSE OUR POOD 6 

to the bone ; when withdrawn it should not be greasy nor have 
a disagreeable strong smell but, on the contrary, be clean and 
have a good flavor. Hams vary in price according to the man- 
ner of curing and special reputation. 

Saet. This must be very fresh and of the best quality. The 
solid fat which surroimds the kidney, either beef or mutton, is 
considered the best. Beef suet should be cream colored or pale 
yellow, not deep yellow, or it will be oily and difficult to chop fine. 
Mutton suet should be of waxy whiteness, and very firm, hard, 
and dry. Veal suet is particularly delicate. Any kernels which 
show themselves when suet is cut through should be removed 
immediately, as well as any parts discolored with blood, as these, 
if left, will decompose and taiut the rest. 

Livers and I^idneys and all inside meats such as tripe, sweet- 
breads, etc., must be chosen carefully and used at once. Livers 
and kidneys should be fresh, firm textured, and free from smell, 
and from all specks or discoloration. All kinds of kidneys must 
be skinned before cooking, and the white inside tube removed. 

Venison is the flesh of the deer. The lean should be finely 
grained and dark m color ; this depends on its being well hung, 
as it should be. The fat should be plentiful, firm, and of a clear, 
creamy white color. The age of the animal can be judged by 
the hoof; in the young animal the flesh is small and smooth, 
while in the older one it has become deeper and rougher. Deer 
should be from four to five years old to be in first-class condition. 
The finest joint for roasting is the haunch. The loin and neck 
are also good roasting pieces. The shoulder and breast are bet- 
ter stewed or made mto a ragoiit or pasty. Steaks are cut from 
the leg and chops from the neck or loin. 

POULTRY AND GAME 

In choosing poultry and game, regard must be had to : Color 
and skin of legs; condition and shape; age; freshness. All 
poultry when young should have smooth and pliable legs, with 
the scales overlapping very slightly. The spurs of male birds 
under a year old are represented only by scaly knobs, through 
which the true spur later pushes itself. The spur on the leg of 
the male bird must be short and not prominent, and the feet 



6 BGONOmCAL COOKSBY 

should be soft and rather moist. If the spur is large and the leg? 
hard and dry, the bird is no longer young. The flesh should be 
smooth and without long hairs. The breast should be plump, 
and both the breastbone and the beak soft and pliable. 

Be careful to note that the birds are free from all discoloration, 
and that the eyes are full and clear. Long thin necks with a 
purplish tint denote age, so also does a purplish tint on the 
thi^. 

The weight should be great in proportion to size, but an over- 
fat bird is not economical, and owing to the flesh being greasy, 
it is less digestible and delicate in flavor. 

White-skinned birds are considered best for boiling, while 
yellow ones will do well enough for roasting. 

For roasting choose a fowl with black or yellow legs, as they 
are more juicy and possess a better flavor. 

For boiling, grilling, roasting, and frying, fowls of the first 
year are best ; but for braising or stewing, old ones, which are 
both cheaper and larger, will do very well, because long slow 
cooking makes them tender. 

Ducks and Geese. Young ducks have yellow feet and bills ; 
as they become older these turn darker and redder. The wild 
duck is an exception, as it has small reddish feet even when 
young. The under bill should be soft and pliable and easily 
broken when bent. The legs should be smooth, and the webbing 
of the feet soft and easily torn. The breast should be plump, 
but not overfat. 

The legs of geese should be pliable and yellow, and the webbing 
of the feet easily torn. The bill should also be pliable and 
yellow and with few bristles, and the under bill easily broken 
when bent. The breast should be plump and rounded, but 
without too much fat, and the skin smooth. A goose should 
always be eaten young. When over a year old, it is not good 
for table use. 

Turkeys. When fresh and in good condition, the skin of a 
turkey should look clear and unwrinkled, and the flesh firm and 
plump. The wattles should be a bright red. Beware of birds 
with long hairs and flesh of a violet hue. Moderate-sized birds 
should be chosen. A hen is preferable for boiling on account of 



HOW TO CHOOSB OT7B FOOD 7 

the whiteness of the flesh, but the cock is usually chosen for 
roasting. If freshly lolled, a turkey should be kept for at least 
three or four days before cooking, or it will be neither white 
nor tender. 

Pigeons. A.dark-colored pigeon is thought to have the highest 
flavor, and a light-colored one the most delicate. Pigeons should 
have the flesh on the breast a light red, with the legs a pinkish 
color; when they are large and deeply colored, the bird is old. 
The breast should be fat and plump. Squabs are young tame 
pigeons. 

Rabbits and Hares. When rabbits and hares are young, the 
claws are smooth, sharp, and pointed, the cleft in the jaws is 
narrow, the teeth white and small, and the ears soft and easily 
torn. They have large knee joints in comparison to their size. 
If old, they will have grayish fur, thick blunt claws, and tough 
ears. Rabbits should be used fr^. Choose one that is plump 
and short-necked, and with the flesh stiff and fresh, and without 
discoloration. Hares require to be well himg, and with these, 
as with other game, the condition of the eye will show approxi- 
mately how long it is since the animal has been killed. The 
cleft in the lip should be narrow. A hare under a year old is 
best for roasting purposes. 

Game Birds. In the young game birds the legs should be 
smooth, and the feet moist and supple ; the beak so brittle that 
the under portion snaps across easily if it is bent backwards. 
The breasts should be pliunp. Arm, and hard, and the long quills 
in the wings soft and not fully developed. The feathers help 
to indicate the age of the bird ; when young' there are soft and 
downy ones under the wing and on the breast. The plumage of 
the young bird is even and soft, the long feathers of the wing 
are pointed, while in the older bird these become round, and the 
colors are usually brighter. The bird should weigh heavily for 
its size. Do not choose a bird that has been badly shot, as when 
much shattered, some parts will become uneatable before the 
rest is tender. 

Vegetables. Vegetables should be fresh to the eye, crisp to 
the touch, and have a cool refreshing odor. Withered or de- 
cayed v^etables are extremely unwholesome. The pods, leaves, 



8 EOONOIUCAL COOKBBT 

and stalks of many varieties begin to lose bulk and flavor as soon 
as cut. Pods and stalks should snap across easily when they are 
bent by the fingers. 

Cucumbers should be very stiff and thick. Cauliflowers should 
be very firm, close, and a creamy white, the leaves round the 
flower being green and crisp. 

The pods of peas should be crisp and bright green with no 
sign of yellow. They should be full, but if very large they are 
apt to be old. If the peas be heard to rattle in the pods, they 
are worthless. 

Potatoes with rough skins are usually the most floiuy when 
boiled. Select those free from "eyes", and remember large 
ones will be the most economical, as there is less waste in peeling 
them. New potatoes must have rough ragged looking skins, 
easily scraped off with the finger nail. 

MISCELLANEOUS 

Flour must have no mujsty or unpleasant smell, or acid taste. 
Grood wheat flour should be soft and silky to the touch, not 
greasy or gritty, and when a little is squeezed together in the 
hand, it should adhere together, not lose its shape when the 
pressure is relaxed. The color should be a creamy white^for 
ordinary household purposes ; if very fine and white it contains 
but little nutriment. 

Eggs should be heavy and have rough dull shells ; when stale 
these become quite shiny as if polished. When held in front of 
a strong light they should have a transparent look and no dark 
spots should be visible. A common method of testing the fresh- 
ness of eggs is to place them in water, when a new-laid egg will 
be nearly submerged, and an old egg will project above the 
surface, the reason being that eggs lose their specific gravity by 
keeping. 

Butter should be firm in texture and free from moisture or 
any rancid smell. It should be rich, but not too deep in color, 
and the flavor should be mild. Butter is frequently adulterated 
with water, and its undue presence may be detected by melting, 
when the water will remain at the bottom. The water is added 
to increase the weight. 



HOW TO CHOOSE OUB FOOD 9 

Lard. The beet lard is very white, close, and has little or no 
odor. If it sputters furiously when heated, it indicates the 
presence of water, due either to careless ** trying out " of the raw 
fat, or to its having been added to the melted fat, to give in- 
creased weight. 

Milk. Allow milk to stand for some hours and note the 
depth of cream which rises to the top ; if it be very slight, the 
milk ha£ been previously skimmed and is of a poor quality ; if 
it be very thin and slightly bluish looking, it is not worth buying. 
Skim milk is milk separated from its fat or cream by aUowing 
the latter to rise to the surface of the liquid and being then 
''skimmed" off. Skimmed milk contains some fat and all 
the other natiual constituents of milk. 

Buttermilk is the residue after removing the butter from milk 
by churning. It is most nutritious, as the casein of the milk is 
still retained in great quantities, but the milk sugar has become 
converted into lactic acid, giving it a slightly sour flavor. It is 
a most refreshiog drink, and it is easily digested. 



CHAPTER II 

THE PROCESSES OF COOKERT 

"Pray you, take note of it." 

ROASTING AND BAKING 

Thb actual differences between roasting and baking are not 
great, the terms being frequently interchanged. Roasting 
proper is cooking before the fire. It is one of the oldest methods 
of cooking on record, and still remains the favorite form of pre- 
paring poultry, game, and meats. Roasting is cooking by the 
direct action of radiating heat, and roasted meat is, strictly 
speaking, meat which has been placed in such a position that the 
radiation of a fire affects the whole surface equally, while at the 
same time a current of fresh air passes around it. Meat thus 
cooked will retain more of the juices and develop more flavor 
than by any other process. Should the heat be insufficient to 
harden the surface albumen quickly, the watery juices evapo- 
rate, and the meat becomes dry and tasteless. The heat must 
not be so intense that the albumen is hardened all through the 
meat ; after the preliminary ten or fifteen minutes, it must be 
reduced, or the meat will be toi^h and charred. The meat 
should be basted every ten minutes, as this helps to cook it, keeps 
it juicy, and improves the flavor. The time allowed is fifteen 
minutes for every pound, and twenty minutes over for beef and 
mutton; for veal and pork, twenty minutes for every poimd 
and thirty minutes over. Boned and rolled or stuffed meats 
require longer cooking than the same joints would if neither 
rolled nor stuffed. 

Roasting may be performed in a properly ventilated oven. 
This is considered to give less excellent results than roasting 
before a fire, the flavor being frequently less delicate, but this 

10 



THB PB0C1BSSE8 OF GOOKBBT 11 

win depend largely on the perfect cleanliness of the oven and 
the system of its ventilation. The proper time and process of 
roasting must be left to the good judgment of the cook, who 
should be guided by circumstances and conditions. Sprinkle 
meat with pepper and salt when nearly ready, as salt sprinkled 
on before the meat is brown will draw out the juice and toughen 
the fiber. 

Baking is cooking in close hot air, and hot air plays a very 
important part in cooking. Although baking in an oven is not 
done by radiating heat, there is a large amount of heat radiated 
from the top and bottom and sides of the oven. Meat loses 
rather less weight when baked than when roasted, but the flavor 
of baked meat is inferior and less developed. The heat of an 
oven being steady, baking takes somewhat less time than 
roasting. 

For baking bread, cakes, pastry, puddings, custards, vege- 
tables, and farinaceous dishes, the oven will always remain in 
favor. In baking, especially puff pastry and souffle, it is well 
to know that opening the door of an oven is detrimental to fine 
pastry in process of baking. Baked custards and milk puddings 
require a more moderate oven than pastry, and a longer time in 
baking, for if they are baked too quick the milk will turn watery 
in the dish, while the top will bum. The difference between 
baking and boiling is that by the former method the food is 
cooked by dry heat, while the latter is cooked by liquid heat. 
Baking, as compared with other cooking processes, such as 
broiling and roasting, differs in this : while by broiling and roast- 
ing the food is cooked by full exposure to the hot air, baking is 
performed in ovens, more or less close structures, whereby the 
action of dry heat is modified by the presence of the steam that 
comes from the food which is being baked. 

BRAISING 

Brabing is a combination of two methods of cooking — roajst- 
ing and stewing — usually applied to small joints of meat. 
This process decreases loss by evaporation, and is one of the 
best ways of cooking the cheaper cuts of meat. The saucepan 
should be deep, and the lid must fit securely. 



12 ECONOMIGAL GOOEBBT 

First place a little butter substitute at the bottom of the 
saucepan and allow it to melt. Then put in a layer of vegetables 
cut in dice — the bed of vegetables should be about one and one 
half inches in depth — add seasonings, and on top place the meat. 
Cook over the fire twenty minutes, shaking the pan occasionally 
to prevent the contents sticking. Next pour in enough water 
or stock to cover the vegetables and just touch the meat, cover 
with a piece of well greased paper, and put the lid on the pan, 
and cook until the meat is tender. The liquid is slowly reduced, 
forming a rich gravy. 

The cooking may be done either on top of the stove or in the 
oven, where it is surroimded by uniform heat, and will need 
very little attention. Occasional basting during the process of 
this method of cooking is essential. When done, the meat is 
taken up, the fat removed from the vegetables and gravy, which 
latter is then reduced, strained, and blended with some kind of 
gravy or sauce. The most stubborn pieces of tough meat will 
yield to the persuasion of the braising pan and become tender, 
especially if a little vinegar or lemon juice be added to the gravy 
in the pan. Plenty of time must be allowed for cooking. 

BROILING OR GRILLING 

Broiling, sometimes caUed grilling, is one of the quickest 
methods of cooking. It is cooking on a hot griU or gridiron 
either over or in front of a hot fire. When a gas stove is used 
it is done under the griller. It is a similar process to roasting, 
with the same results and the same drawbacks ; namely, it is an 
extravagant method, as much fuel and the best cuts of meat are 
essential to success. This method can only be applied to small 
pieces of meat which will cook quickly, such ajs chops, steak, 
kidneys, small pieces of vegetables, joints of game and poultry, 
etc. 

The fire for broiling must be clear and intensely hot. The 
outer surface of the meat is burned or seared, the albumen 
hardens, and the juices, which have a tendency to escape on the 
side turned from the heat, are retained in the meat by frequent 
turning. The meat must be turned at short intervals, before the 
juices have been driven from the fire to the opposite surface. 



THE PROCESSES OF COOKERY 13 

If once allowed to reach the surface, they will be thrown off in 
turning and wasted. The meat must not be pierced with a 
fork, or the juices will escape, and much of the flavor will be 
loit. Arrange the food on the griller so that the thickest part 
of it will be just in the center of the fire, where it will obtain the 
greatest heat ; also should there be any fat on the meat, it should 
be placed at the top, so that, as it melts, the drippings trickle 
down and baste the meat. It is essential that the griller be 
clean, well heated, and greased. The time for grilling must be 
regulated by the thickness, rather than by the weight of the 
meat, and experience alone can teach when a steak or chop is 
done. When cut, broiled meat should look moist and red, and 
the gravy should run from it. 

BOILING 

Boiling is cooking food by moist heat, by inmiersing it in boil- 
ing liquid for a certain time. 

Boiling is one of the simplest, most economical, most generally 
used methods of cooking, and when correctly done, it renders 
food both digestible and wholesome. In most cases the article 
itself does not boil, but is immersed in boiling water or stock ; 
but the term is also applied correctly to vegetables, cereals, 
puddings, and in cases where evaporation is required, or the 
reduction of sauces, stocks, etc. Meat loses less weight by boil- 
ing and steaming than by any other process. The]object in boiling 
meat is to retain as much as possible of the juices in the flesh, 
and for this end it should be put into a pan of fast boiling water. 
This closes up the pores on the outside of the meat, and these 
close and harden ; a skin is formed which both prevents the es- 
cape of the nutritive juices and excludes the water. After a 
few minutes the purpose of the fast boiling water is effected, and 
the cooking must be continued at a lower temperature, namely, 
by simmering. By this is meant the state of heat at which little 
bubbles appear from time to time at the edges of the pan. 

Should the liquid evaporate, sufficient boiling water or stock 
should be added to cover the meat — but the possibility of evapo- 
ration must be kept in view when placing the meat in the pan, 
and sufficient water should be supplied at first to allow for this. 



14 ECONOMIGAL COOKIBBY 

The time allowed for boiling meat varies so much that it is 
impossible to give a definite rule. Experience will guide one 
according to the weight and kind of meat. Twenty minutes to 
the pound and twenty minutes over is the standard time tor 
boiling, but this rule is only possible when the meat weighs three 
pounds or over. It is impossible to simmer meat on a fierce 
fire, so the heat must be properly regulated. 

Salt meat should be put into cold water in order to soften it 
and draw out some of the salt, then brought slowly to the boil, 
boiled for a few minutes only, and the cooking continued as 
with fresh meat. If very salt or highly smoked, it should be 
soaked in cold water for some time before cooking. The liquor 
in \diich salt meat has been cooked should not be put in the stock 
pot, but it can be used for making pea, lentil, bean, or potato 
soup. Salt meat takes longer to cook than fresh meat, and the 
saltness may be much qualified by boiling vegetables with 
the meat. 

STEAMING 

Food is said to be steamed when it is cooked by moist heat in 
the vapor arising from boiling water. Steaming is the most 
gradual of all the methods of cooking, and though this necessi- 
tates the use of more fuel, yet, as many different articles of food 
can be steamed over one utensil containing boiling water, it is 
really economical, and is largely adopted in hotels, hospitals, 
etc. There must be plenty of steam, or the process will not be 
a success. The gradual heat renders the food more digestible, 
hence its special value for invalid cookery. 

None of the nutritious elements of fish, meat, fruit, or veg- 
etables are lost in the water, thus all foods retain their full flavor 
and food value. Small pieces of meat or fish may be steamed 
in a jar placed in a saucepan of boiling water, or even on a plate 
placed on the top of a saucepan of boiling water. 

FRYING 

Frying is cooking foods by contact with fat at a high temper- 
ature, and is the quickest of all cooking methods. It may be 
considered under three heads, generally known as wet frying, 



THE PROCESSES OF COOKERT 15 

dry frying, and saut^ing. A deep pan is used for wet frying, and 
should contain enough hot fat to cover the food to be fried. This 
method is used for croquettes, fritters, etc. Foods fried thus 
are usually, though not always, protected from the intense heat 
with some material that will harden instantly when heated, and 
80 prevent the juice or flavor passing into the fat and the entrance 
of the fat into the food. The substances generally used for 
coating are eggs, bread crumbs, batters, pastry, etc. 

A great help for deep frying is a frsdng basket to fit the pan, 
as by this the food can be removed at once and without danger 
of breaking. Do not put too many articles into the pan at one 
time, or they will cool the fat too much ; and always reheat the 
fat before putting in a second lot. The heat of the fat before 
using is a most important point. As a rule, the correct heat 
for frying is reached when a blue vapor rises from the surface of 
the fat ; or the heat may be tested by putting in a small crust 
of bread; if this frizzles freely, the fat is ready for use. For 
uncooked articles such as doughnuts, the fat should be hot 
enough to brown a piece of bread in forty seconds. For cooked 
articles such as croquettes, the fat should be hot enough to 
brown a piece of bread in twenty seconds. The average tem- 
perature of fat for frying is about 380** F. The fat should not 
be left on the range when the cooking is finished with, aa it will 
quickly get overheated and bum. It should be allowed to cool, 
tiien strained through cheesecloth or muslin. It may then be 
put aside for future use. If care is taken of the fat in this way, 
it will keep good for many weeks, and it will not be found an 
extravagance, as but little is consumed each time. It may seem 
extravagant to the uninitiated to talk about using abundance of 
fat for frying, but this method of wet frying is to be preferred ^ 
for most foods rather than dry frying or saut^ing. If the fat 
becomes dark colored, heat slowly and drop in a few slices of 
raw potato. They will absorb various impurities from the fat 
and thus clarify it. 

For dry frying only a very small amoimt of fat is used, just 
enough to prevent the food from sticking to the frying pan. It 
18 employed for eggs, omelets, bacon, cutlets, sausages, pan- 
cakes, etc. The fat must be made quite hot, and then the food 



16 BGONOMICAL COOKBBT 

placed in it and cooked on both sides. It is seldom possible to 
use the fat from dry frying a second time except for dishes of 
the same kind, as the fat is always more or less flavored by the 
food cooked in it. All fried foods must be drained carefully on 
soft paper. 

Saut^ing is best described as " tossing." It is also a form of 
dry frjring, for just enough fat is used to toss the food about in 
to prevent it from sticking to the pan. A quick fire is needed, 
and the contents of the pan kept continuously in motion either 
by moving it back and forth or skillfully tossing the food over. 

STEWING 

Stewing is allowing food to simmer in a small amount of hot 
liquid for a long time. A siounering heat is that just below 
boiling point. This is the most economical way of cooking food, 
as all the juices and nutriment are retained, while the food 
being cooked is softened and rendered entirely digestible. Stew- 
ing is often spoiled by being done too rapidly. The meat is 
really fried over a hot fire to begin with, and after this very slow 
cooking is absolutely necessary. There is a true saying that 
" to boil a stew is to spoil a stew." If a stew boils one observes 
large bubbles on the top of it ; if it simmers, the bubbles are tiny 
and rise only here and there on the stew. There are two vari- 
eties of stews made from meat : the white stew or fricass6e, and 
the brown stew or ragoAt. 

A close covered casserole or saucepan is best for making stews, 
which may be cooked in the oven, on top of the stove, or in 
the fireless cooker. Stewing is specially suitable for the coarse 
and therefore cheaper parts of meat, which are thus rendered 
tender without loss of their juices. The slow cooking in moist 
heat softens the hard fiber and gelatinous substances. Meat 
loses but little weight if stewed. Vegetables being usually 
added to the meat, the bulk of the stew is economically increased, 
and it is rendered more savory and wholesome. Stews are con- 
venient for family use, as they can be easily reheated or kept hot 
without spoiling them. 



MiKiNO Cocoa. Page 19. 



.4- 



7 



CHAPTER III 

BEVERAGBS 

** One sip of this 
Will bathe the drooping spirits in delight 
Beyond the bliss of dreams." 

ITndbb this heading are classed aU liquids such as tea, cofFee, 
cocoa, chocolate, water, mineral waters, and other liquors, which 
are consimied more for the purpose of quenching thirst than 
relieving hunger. The chief constituent of them all is water, 
and their nutritive properties vary considerably. Few beverages 
are satisfactory as food, but their consumption is necessary to 
life to replace the water excreted by the body in the performance 
of its various functions, as a solvent of food, to keep the albumens 
absorbed in a state of solution, and to regulate the temperature 
of the body. Water forms sixty per cent, of the weight of the 
human body and requires about fifty ounces each day, either 
alone or combined in food. For the physiological purposes 
referred to, pure water is the best beverage. 

A Palatable Rhubarb Beverage 

3 pounds rhubarb 12 oranges 

Boiling water 3 grapefruit 

6 lemons 1 cup (i pt.) grape juioe 

Sugar 

Wash and cut rhubarb in small pieces, place in granite sauce- 
pan, and barely cover with water. Cook until tender, drain 
through a colander, add strained juice of lemons, oranges, and 
grapefruit, and add grape juice. Measure juice and add one 
third its weight in sugar. Bring juice and sugar to boiling point, 
cool, and bottle. Keep in refrigerator. Reduce with water at 
serving time. 

17 



18 BCONOMICAL COOEBBY 



Capillaire 

7 pounds lump sugar 6 cups (1} qts.) water 

2 eggs 4 tablespoons orange-flower water 

4 drops vanilla extract 

Put sugar into a saucepan, break in eggs with shells, stir in 
water gradually, set over fire and boil, take off scum until 
only a light froth rises. Strain, and when cool add orange- 
flower water and vanilla, bottle, and cork tight to keep. 

One wineglass of this in a tumbler of ice water is very refresh- 
ing. Slice of lemon, or orange, or pineapple may be added to it, 
also a glass of wine. 

Cherry Shrub 

2 quarts ripe cherries 8 cups (2 qts.) water 

4 cups (2 lbs.) sugar or honey 2 lemons 

1 orange 

Pit cherries and mash thoroughly. Bring sugar and water 
to boiling point and boil sirup eight minutes. Add cherries, 
lemon and orange juices. Strain and chill. 



Choca — A Combination of Chocolate and Coffee 

Far Chocolate 

2 cups (1 pt.) milk 2 cups (1 pt.) cold water 

3 tablespoons chocolate, grated 

Mix milk and water and bring to a boil; add chocolate 
moistened with a little cold water and cook three to five minutes. 

For Cofee 
2 cupe (1 pt.) strong clear coffee 2 cups (1 pt.) hot milk 

Put coffee and milk intx) a saucepan ; make very hot but do 
not boil. 

Pour both hot beverages slowly into hot vessel at the same 
time, holding each at an elevation of eighteen inches. Pour 
into hot cups, sweeten to taste, and serve at once with crackers 
or cakes. 



BEVERAGES 19 

Cider Cop 

4 cups (1 qt.) cider i lemon 

I cup (1 gQl) fruit juice i cup (2 ozs.) sugar or honey 

2 pint bottles soda water 

Mix cider with fruit juice, strained lemon juice, and sugar, and 
let stand on ice two or three hours. At serving time add one 
pint broken ice and soda. If liked, a little chopped mint may 
be added. 

Cocoa 

4 cups (1 qt.) scalded milk } cup (2 ozs.) sugar 

4 tablespoons cocoa i teaspoon salt 

1 cup (i pt.) boiling water 

In saucepan mix cocoa, sugar, and salt ; add gradually water 
and cook four minutes. Pour in milk and beat two minutes 
with egg beater. If liked, this cocoa may be served with 
whipped and sweetened cream flavored with vanilla extract. 

To Make Cocoa from Nibs. Slightly crush two ounces cocoa 
nibs and put them into a pitcher with four cups cold water. 
Cover and let stand overnight. Pour into a saucepan and 
simmer gently four hours. Add more water if necessary and 
strain when ready. Allow to cool, remove any fat from top, and 
reheat as required. Serve with milk and sugar if liked. 

For Iced Cocoa, To every two cups cocoa, add one half cup 
whipped cream. Beat it into cocoa, sweetened to taste, add 
one half teaspoon vanilla extract, and allow to stand until cold. 
Serve in glasses one third filled with crushed ice. 

Coffee 
Freshly ground coffee Water, boiling 

Use an earthenware or china pitcher and heat it in the oven. 
Put in one ounce of freshly roasted and freshly ground coffee 
for each pint of liquid desired, fill the pitcher one half full of 
boiling water, then stir thoroughly. Fill pitcher full with water 
and stir again. The stirring is most important, so as to extract 
the full strength from the coffee. Place in oven or on top of 



20 ECONOMICAL COOKERY 

range five minutes, then strain off grounds and serve with cream. 
Coffee is a much finer drink with cream than with milk, whether 
hot or cold. 

Another good way of making coffee is to stretch loosely over 
a pitcher a piece of muslin or cheesecloth, and put on it the 
coffee. Pour boiling water over it very gradually, letting the 
water in the kettle go on boiling while the other is dripping 
through the grounds, for only a little can be poured on at a time. 
Then when aU has passed through, bring it nearly to boiling 
point before pouring it into the cups. 

A tiny pinch of salt will cause the grounds to settle almost at 
once if it is found necessary to " clear " the coffee. Pouring 
from one pitcher to another has the same effect, but is apt to 
cool it, and coffee must be served hot. 

For Caf6 au Lait use equal quantities of strong coffee and 
scalded milk, or two thirds milk to one third of coffee. A pinch 
of mustard added to the coffee before the water is poured on it 
brings out the flavor of the coffee. 

For Iced Coffee, allow caf6 au lait to become cold. Fill 
tumblers one half full of crushed ice; add sugar to taste and 
pour in coffee. Or, make strong boiled coffee, sweeten to taste, 
chill. When ready to serve, it may be diluted with milk, or it 
may be diluted with water, and served with cracked ice. 

Cream Nectar 

2 ounces tartaric acid 1 egg white, beaten 

2 pounds lump sugar 1 teaspoon lemon extract 

3 cups (1} pts.) boiling water 1 teaspoon orange extract 

Baking soda 

Dissolve tartaric acid and sugar in boiling water, then allow 
to simmer thirty minutes. When cold add egg white and extracts, 
and bottle. For a cooling drink put one half wineglass of nectar 
into a tumbler, fill three fourths full with ice water, and stir in a 
saltspoon of baking soda. 

Another Nedar is Made as Follows. Wash and peel two 
lemons; pour four quarts boiling water over rinds and allow 
to cool. Add strained lemon juice, one half pound seeded and 



BEVERAGBS 21 

chopped raisins, and one pound lump sugar. Cover and let 
preparation remain five days, stirring four times daily; then 
strain into bottles. 

Delicious Chocolate 

4 capa (1 qt.) milk 2 egg whites 

2 squares (2 ess.) bitter chocolate 2 bananajEi, mashed 

1 cup (i lb.) sugar 2 tablespoons powdered sugar 

Heat milk to boiling point. Grate chocolate and mix with 
enough boiling water to make thin paste. Pour this into milk 
and add sugar. Keep very hot. 

Beat up whites to stiff froth, add bananas a little at a time, 
and powdered sugar. Fill hot cups three fourths full of chocolate 
and fill up with egg-white mixture. Serve at once, sufficient 
for six persons. 

Iced Chocolate is Refreshing. Grate two squares bitter 
chocolate, add sufficient cold water to cover and one third cup 
sugar; bring to boiling point and simmer five minutes, take 
from fire and cool. Add two cups milk and pour over finely 
chopped ice in tall glasses. If liked, chocolate may be topped 
with a spoonful of whipped and sweetened cream, flavored with 
one half teaspoon vanilla extract. 

Effervescing Fruit Drink 

Ripe peaches or apricots 1 ounce tartaric acid 

1 cup (i lb.) sugar or honey Baking soda 

Bruise sufficient peaches or apricots to make two cups of 
juice, pass through hot jelly bag to clear, boil with sugar to a 
sirup, add acid, bottle, and cork well. For a tumbler three 
parts full of water add two tablespoons of above sirup and a 

pinch of soda, stir, and drink while effervescing. 

ft 

Ginger Beer 

1} pounds lump sugar 1} ounces whole ginger 

4 quarts (1 gal.) boiling water 2 lemons 

i ounce cream of tartar 1 yeast cake 

2 tablespoons granulated sugar 



22 ECONOMICAL COOKBBT 

Put into a large stone-ware jar the sugar, cream of tartar, 
ginger crushed small, rinds of lemons cut thin, strained juice of 
lemons, and boiling water. Stand until lukewarm and add 
yeast mixed with granulated sugar. Stir well, cover jar, and 
stand in a warm place twenty-four hours. Skim well, strain 
into another vessel, and bottle at once, using new corks, and 
tie down securely. In three or four days it will be ready for use. 

Ginger Wine 

Pour twelve pints boiling water over two tablespoons ginger 
extract, one teaspoon red pepper, one half oimoe tartaric acid, 
one half ounce burnt sugar, and five pounds lump sugar. When 
cold put in slice toasted bread spread with one yeast cake, 
allow to stand overnight, remove bread, and put in stone jars. 
Allow to ferment three days, filling them as they flow over. 
Stand in a warm place three weeks, cork lightly at first, and 
lastly knock in corks tight. Allow to stand two months, then 
bottle carefully so as not to disturb the sediment. 

Ginger Beer Powder 

Put three fourths pound sugar, one and one half ounces 
tartaric acid, and one and one half ounces baking soda into 
a bowl and pound well together. Mix with them ten drops 
ginger extract, then store in a dry, well-corked bottle. 

Gingerade 

4 cupe (2 lbs.) sugar 2 teaspoons ginger extract 

2 cups (1 pt.) water 1 teaspoon lemon extract 

i ounce citric acid 

Dissolve sugar in water and boil ten minutes. Take from 
fire, add extracts and acid. Strain into a pitcher and bottle 
when cold. 

Use a tablespoonful to a glassful of boiling water. 

Grated lemon rind can be substituted for lemon extract, and 
a little grated orange rind added to the boiling sirup is an im- 
provement. 



BEV1BRAGB8 23 

Grapeade 

1 lemon 1 cup (i pt.) grape juice 

2 oranges li cups (12 ozs.) sugar or hon^y 
1 banana Ck)ld water 

Grate rinds and add strained juice of lemon and oranges. 
Mash banana and add it with grape juice, sugar, and enough 
water to make at least six glasses full. Strain, chill, and serve 
in dainty glasses. This is excellent when frozen with two sti£9y 
beaten whites of egg?. 

Honey Beer 

2 gallons boiling water 4 cups (2 pts.) honey 

3 cups (li pts.) yeast 

Pour boiling water over honey, add yeast, and let stand thirty 
hours; strain, bottle, and cork tightly. The next day it will 
be ready for use. 

Another Method. Mix fourteen pounds honey with seven 
gallons water and one half pound hops, and boil gently one hour, 
strain into a clean cask; allow to stand overnight, then add 
two tablespoons yeast or one yeast cake dissolved with a little 
lukewarm water ; let this ferment ten days, then gradually stop 
by placing a piece of brown paper over hole, then lightly put 
in bung and knock it a little closer every second day until quite 
tight. Stand six weeks. While beer is working, add a little 
honey and water every morning to keep cask full. 

Hot Chocolate 

1 ounce (1 square) chocolate 1 cup (} pt.) boiHng water 

2 tablespoons (1 02.) sugar 3 cups (H pts.) milk, scalded 
1 tea^xwn cornstarch i teaspoon vanilla extract 

} teaspoon salt Marshmallows 

Melt chocolate, add sugar mixed with cornstarch, salt, and 
water; boil five minutes, stirring constantly, then add milk 
and vanilla. Beat well before serving. Place a marshmallow in 
each cup and pour over the chocolate. 



24 ECONOMICAL COOKEBT 



Koumiss 



2 cups (1 pt.) buttennilk 8 cups (4 pts.) sweet milk 

6 pieces lump sugar 

Mix buttermilk, sweet milk, and sugar together. Pour the 
whole from one pitcher to another until sugar is thoroughly 
dissolved. It takes fifteen to twenty minutes. Cover with 
muslin or cheesecloth and allow to stand in a warm part of the 
kitchen twelve hours. Pour into pint bottles, tie down corks, 
and in four days it is ready for use. The bottles should be 
left lying on their sides in a cool place. 

Another Method. Warm four cups milk to blood heat, add 
one tablespoon sugar, one fourth teaspoon salt, and one fourth 
yeast cake dissolved in a little lukewarm water. Bottle tightly 
at once. Stand the bottle in a warm place twelve hours, then 
place on ice twelve hours, when it is ready for serving. 

Do not allow milk to heat above 98^ F., or 100'' F. 

Lemonade 

3 lemons 4 cups (1 qt.) water, boiling 

1 cup (i lb.) sugar 

Scrub lemons perfectly clean, then cut two thin slices from 
center of each and lay aside. Pare off some of the thin yellow 
rind from lemons and squeeze out all juice. Put juice, lemon 
rinds, and sugar in jar or bowl, and then add water. Stand 
imtil cgld, chill, and when ready to serve, fill glasses one third 
f uU of chipped ice or cold water ; add lemonade and a slice of 
the cut lemon. 

If liked, a beaten white of egg may be added. 

Lemon Sirup 

2 pounds liunp sugar } ounce citric acid 

1| cups (i pt.) water 4 lemons 

Boil sugar and water to thick sirup, add acid and strained 
lemon juice, and bottle. This sirup can be used for various 
iced drinks, or alone with plain or aerated water. 



BEVERAGES 25 

Making Tea 
Tea Water 

Tea making is an art, but one which may be easily acquired 
by observing the following rules : 

Do not use water which has boiled a long time in brewing tea. 

Do not use water which has not reached the boiling point. 

Do not allow the tea to brew for more than five minutes. 

Do not make tea in a cold teapot ; rinse with hot water before 
placing leaves in pot. 

Do not pour a second water over leaves when first brew is 
exhausted. 

Do not buy too cheap a quality of tea and expect perfect 
results. 

Always use a porcelain or earthenware teapot ; tea experts 
tell us that the fragrant leaf should never touch metal. Put 
in the tea in the proportion of one ounce to six or seven persons, 
or a teaspoonful for each person aad a teaspoonful for the teapot. 
Pour on freshly boiling water and allow to stand for a few 
moments to draw. As to the kind of tea to be used, that must 
be left to one's personal preference. 

For Iced Tea, Make tea of rather stronger quality than usual ; 
pour from leaves, after standing five minutes, directly upon the 
cracked ice in glasses. Or serve in glasses with crushed ice 
and one slice lemon in each glass, or add a few whole cloves to 
hot tea, let stand two minutes, strain, allow to become cold, 
and serve in glasses with sugar to taste and cracked ice. 

Hardly any well-regulated household is without its afternoon 
tea apparatus. All sorts of novelties are on the market now 
for those who have taken up this pretty fad. The old-fashioned 
tea ball has been superseded by a new percolator in the form of a 
basket hung on a silver chain. The tea urn is being ousted by 
the Russian samovar, which is a metal utensil standing about 
two feet high. The urn is filled with water, which is heated by 
charcoal placed in a pipe, which passes through the urn, and 
which has a chimney attached. 

To Make Russian Tea. Pour just enough boiling water over 
three generous tablespoonfuls of English breakfast tea to cover 



26 ECONOMICAL COOKEBT 

it. Let it stand a minute, then draw the water off. Now pour 
in two pints boiling water from the samovar. Let it steep four 
minutes. Serve in cups with thin slices of lemon and powdered 
sugar. 

Oatmeal and Cocoa Cooler 

I cup (4 OSS.) fine oatmeal i cup (4 ozs.) sugar or honey 

} cup (3 ozs.) cocoa 12 cups (3 qts.) boiling water 

1 teaspoon vanilla extract 

Mix oatmeal, cocoa, and sugar, add boiling water and stir 
well. Add vanilla and serve when very cold. 

Another Method, Put three fourths cup oatmeal, one fourth 
ounce powdered ginger, one fourth cup brown sugar or honey, 
grated rind and strained juice two lemons, and two quarts 
boiling water into a saucepan. Stir well, and boil five minutes, 
then leave to get cold. 

Orgeat Water 

i pound sweet almonds ) cup (1 gill) orange-flower water 

12 bitter almonds 4 cups (1 qt.) water 

i cup (4 ozs.) sugar 

Blanch almonds and pound them, adding gradually orange- 
flower water, then add water and sugar and mix well. Strain 
and chill when ready to serve. 

Pineapple Lemonade 

1 large pineapple, grated 6 pups (3 pts.) water 

6 lemons 1 cup (i lb.) sugar or honey 

Bring water and sugar to boUing point and boil ten minutes, 
cool, add pineapple and strained lemon juice, and pour over 
cracked ice. More water and sugar may be used if desired. 

Prone Water 

i pound prunes 1 lemon 

6 cups (3 pts.) water Sugar or honey to taste 

Peel lemon very thin, and put rinds and prunes into a saucepan 
with water, bring to a boil, and simmer forty minutes. Add 



Hot CHOcoLiiE. Page iS. 






CofFEE FUR BRBAKCAdT. tOgS 1 



Tea with * Rdssian Sasiovah. Page tS. 



Ghahau BiBcuiTS. Page .!S, 



BEVBBAOBS 27 

strained lemon juice, and sugar or honey to taste. Strain into 
a cold pitcher and serve very cold. This drink is very wholesome 
for children and does not require much sugar or. honey. 

Apple Water 

Slice six large apples without peeling or coring them, and put 
them into a pan with six cups water and two tablespoons sugar 
or honey. Bring to boiling poiat and boil ten minutes. Add 
juice one lemon, and when quite cold, strain and use. 

Raspberry Vinegar 

24 cups (6 qts.) raspberries 4 cups (1 qt.) vinegar 

Sugar 

Put three quarts of the raspberries into a large bowl or jar 
and over them pour vinegar ; allow to stand twenty-four hours. 
Press and strain out liquor, add remainder of raspberries, and 
stand again twenty-four hours. Strain all juice thoroughly, 
and to each pint add one pound heated sugar and boil twenty 
minutes. Seal and cork in bottles when cold. To use the rasp- 
berry vinegar, dilute it with three parts water. 

Tea Punch 

Tea 1 lemon 

Sugar 1 cup (i pt.) orange or fruit Juice 

Make strong infusion of English breakfast tea, allowing two 
teaspoons to each cup boiling water. For four cups tea, add 
one half cup sugar with two tablespoons water and cook untU 
it spins a thread, or reaches 218^ F. on candy thermometer. 
Remove from fire and add strained juice of lemon. When chilled, 
add orange or fruit juice. 

There is no precise rule for making punch, no two persons 
agreeing in the exact proportions of the ingredients. The great 
secret is that the mixture should be so happily compounded 
that nothing predominates. 



CHAPTER IV 

BREAD, BlSCXnXS, MUFFINS, ROLLS, ETC. 

" I won't quarrel with my bread and butter." 

In seleddng flour choose not only that which is rich in albumi- 
noids, but see that the gluten is of first quality. To test, 
make a piece of dough from one half a cup of flour and sufficient 
water to moisten ; knead and work well ; form it into a biscuit ; 
then quickly break it into halves. If strong, it will break with a 
crack ; and this is good flour. If soft, poor flour, it will stretch 
apart and break without a sound. If it is impossible to make a 
ball of dough to test the flour, take a portion of flour in the 
hand and press it firmly ; if, when the hand is opened, it falls 
apart, is rather " grainy " or granulated, and does not pack, it is 
good bread, muffin, or biscuit flour. 

A rich creamy yellow flour should be used for bread, rolls, and 
biscuits of all kinds, and a lighter tint for pastry. Avoid flours 
of a grayish tint ; they are poor and cheap. 

Genuine pastry flour is a pale yellowish-white, fine and starchy, 
easily retaining the form of a hand upon pressure. In making 
fine pastries and cakes, the best results are obtained from real 
pastry flour. It is cheaper to make bread than to purchase it. 
The prime object in bread making is to secure a nutritious, 
attractive and palatable form of food. Various changes are 
wrought in converting wheat into flour and flour into bread. 
The process of bread making is accomplished by the addition of 
a liquid — water, milk, or milk and water — and yeast to the 
flour. Usually salt, sugar, and fat are added also. The flour, 
by the addition of the hquid, is converted into dough. Yeast 
is a vegetable organism, a mysterious little plant, which lives 

28 



BREAD, BISCUITS, MUFFINS, ROLLS, ETC. 29 

aad grows in the presence of suitable nourishment, moisture, 
and moderate heat ; extreme heat kills it. When yeast is added 
to dough, the cells are separated and distributed throughout 
the mass. The yeasts multiply and grow, and in the process of 
their growth some of the starch of the flour is changed into 
sugar; alcohol and carbon dioxide are formed from the sugar. 
This gas (carbon dioxide), forms bubbles in the dough, thus 
increasing it in size and making it light and spongy. This 
growth, and consequent formation of gas, must be checked at 
the right time, or the dough will become too light, and later sour. 

When the loaf is baked, the heat of the oven causes the gas 
to expand, the alcohol to be driven off, the proteins to set and 
coagulate, forming a framework for the loaf. Some of the 
starch is changed into dextrin. Thus the crust is formed. It is 
the dextrin which gives the crust its glazed appearance. 

The oven temperature and time required for baking depend 
upon the size of the loaf. A loaf should begin to brown after 
it has been in the oven fifteen minutes ; continue browning for 
twenty minutes, the heat then being reduced for a final fifteen 
minutes. Small loaves can be more perfectly baked, and are 
therefore preferable to large. If the loaf, on being knocked, 
sounds hollow, it is said to be well baked ; if the sound is heavy 
and leaden, it is underbaked. A crust that is elastic and springs 
back after pressure is considered another sign of well-baked 
bread. 

There are several excellent bread mixers on the market. 

Baking Powder Biscuits 

3 tablespoons (1} ozs.) lard, or 1 teaspoon salt 

butter substitute 1 teaspoon sugar 

2 cups (} lb.) flour 4 teaspoons baking powder 

2 cups (} lb.) barley flour li cups (1 pt.) water 

Put lard into pan in which you intend to bake biscuits and 
set on stove to heat. Into a bowl sift flours, salt, sugar, and 
baking powder. Make well in center of flour, pour in water and 
hot lard, and work flour in gradually. Mix to soft dough, make 
into biscuits without rolling, place in the greased tin, and bake 
in hot oven ten to twelve minutes. 



30 BGONOMICAL COOKEBT 

Another Method, Into a bowl sift one cup flour, one cup 
barley flour, four teaspoons baking powder, one teaspoon sugar, 
and half a teaspoon salt; add three tablespoons butter sub- 
stitute, cut and rub it into dry ingredients, and add gradually 
three fourths cup milk. The dough should be as soft as can be 
handled without sticking. Turn out on a floured baking board, 
roll or pat lightly until three fourths of an inch thick, and cut 
with a floured biscuit cutter. Lay on greased tins and bake in 
hot oven for twelve to fifteen minutes. 

Boston Brown Bread 

1 cup (6 OSS.) com meal 1 teaspoon soda 

2 cups (10 0Z8.) graham flour 1} teaspoons salt 

i cup (1} 0Z8.) brown sugar 1 cup (10} ozs.) molaaMB 

li cups (3i gills) cold water 

Mix dry ingredients, add molasses and water, and stir all 
together until thoroughly mixed. Pour into greased mold, 
cover with lid, and steam steadily eight hours. 

This mixture may be steamed in two baking-powder cans. 

Another Method, Mix one cup each flour and com meal, add 
two cups Graham flour, two teaspoons baking powder, one 
teaspoon salt, one and one half teaspoons soda, one cup sour 
milk, one cup molasses, and one well-beaten egg. Beat well, 
turn into greased mold, cover, and steam steadily four hours. 
Bake twenty minutes. 

Bran MufOns 

1 cup (6 ozs.) brown sugar 1 cup (4 ozs.) potato or com flour 

1 tablespoon (i oz.) butter or lard 1 teaspoon baking powder 

2 eggSy beaten } teaspoon salt 

i cup (1 gill) milk i cup (2 ozs.) chopped Dut meats 

1 cup (3 ozs.) bran } cup (3 ozs.) Sultana raisins 

Cream shortening, and add eggs, milk, bran, flour sifted with 
baking powder and salt ; add nuts and raisins. Mix well and 
divide into twelve greased and floured muffin pans, and bake in 
moderate oven fifteen minutes. 

Another Method, Mix two cups bran, three fourths cup flour, 
and one and one half tablespoons sugar in a bowl. Add one 
egg well beaten, one and one half cups sour milk, and one tea- 



BREAD, BISCUITS, MUFFINS, BOLLS, ISTC. 31 

spoon soda. Stir well and drop into greased and floured muffin 
pans, and bake thirty minutes in hot oven. 

These muffins are good for constipation if eaten daily. Few 
housekeepers appreciSE^te the value of bran, either uncooked or 
in bread and gems or buns. Bran is highly laxative, and in 
nine out of ten families there is a need for laxative food. Seden- 
tary habits and meat eating are constipation causes ; when this 
trouble exists, two or three tablespoons of sterilized bran should 
be eaten at least once a day. 

Bread Giiddlecakes 

2 cups (8 ozs.) stale bread, diced } teaspoon salt 

1 cup (4 ozs.) flour or potato floiir 1 tablespoon H oz.) lard, melted 

2 teaspoons baking powder 1 egg, beaten 

1 tablespoon (i oz.) sugar 1} cups (f pt.) milk 

1 cup (i pt.) water 

Cover bread with cold water and soak till soft ; then squeeze 
out all superfluous water. Put bread into a bowl, add flour, 
baking powder, sugar, salt, lard, egg, milk, and water. Mix 
and allow to stand ten minutes. Drop in spoonfuls on 
hot greased griddle ; when full of bubbles, turn, and when cooked 
on both sides serve hot. 

Breakfast PufFs without Eggs 

2 cups (i lb.) flour or Graham flour 1 cup (i pt.) cold water 

1 cup a pt.) milk 

Sift flour into a bowl and gradually add water and milk and beat 
together ten minutes with egg beater ; divide into well-greased 
gem pans and bake in moderate oven fifteen to twenty minutes. 

Do not use salt. Serve hot with butter or sirup. 

Stale puffs or rolls hollowed out, heated, and filled with 
creamed left-over meat, fish, or chicken make a very good dish 
for breakfast or luncheon. 

Brown Bread 

1 cake yeast 2 tablespoons (1 oz.) butter or 
4 tablespoons brown sugar, mo- lard, melted 

lasses, or sirup 3 teaspoons salt 

1 cup () pt.) lukewarm water If cups (7 ozs.) flour 

1 cup (i pt.) scalded milk, cooled 5 cups (IJ lbs.) whole wheat flour 



32 BCONOBilCAL COOKEBY 

Mix yeast with sugar, add water, milk, butter, salt, and 
flours gradually. Turn out on to baking board and knead 
thoroughly. The dough should be a soft one. Allow to rise 
until double in bulk, turn out and divide into two loaves, place 
in well-greased bread pans, and allow to rise untU light. Brush 
over with hot milk or water and bake in moderate oven one hoiu*. 

Whole wheat flour is of a dark brown color, rather coarse, and 
should be free from bran; in other words the outside coat of 
bran is peeled off, and the remaining portion of the grain ground 
into flour. This flour contains albiuninoids and the nutritive 
mineral matter. While the bran which is peeled off may contain 
some mineral matter, its greater portion is woody fiber, which is 
indigestible ; consequently it is unfit for food, and should not be 
taken by persons who have a weak digestion, or whose intestines 
are easily irritated. This flour contains all the necessary ele- 
ments for the building of bone and teeth structure. It supplies 
the alkaline phosphates which contribute to the formation of 
the required salts in the body. 

Buckwheat Gems 

2 cups ( 12 ozs.) buckwheat flour 3 tablespoons soy bean flour 

i teaspoon salt 1} cups (1 pt.) milk 

4 teaspoons baking powder 3 tablespoons honey or sirup 

1 egg, beaten 1 tablespoon (} oz.) butter sub- 

stitute, melted 

Mix flours, salt, and baking powder, add egg, milk, honey or 
sirup, and butter substitute. Turn into greased and floured 
gem pans and bake forty minutes in moderate oven. 

Cocoa Muflins 

2 cups (i lb.) flour or Graham flour 1 tablespoon (i oz.) butter 
2 teaspoons baking powder i cup (4 ozs.) sugar or honey 
2 teaspoons cocoa 1 egg, beaten 

i teaspoon salt 1 teaspoon vanilla extract 

} cup (1 gill) water 

Sift together flour, baking powder, cocoa, and salt. Cream 
butter and sugar, add egg, vanilla, water, and flour mixture. 
Beat imtil light and divide into eight greased and floured gem 
pans and bake in quick oven ten to twelve minutes. 



BBBAD, BISCUITS, BfXTFFINS, BOLLS, BTG. 33 

Most Graham flour sold in our markets is composed of a little 
white flour and a goodly quantity of bran, mixed with a certain 
proportion of " shorts ", " middlings ", or fine farina, whichever 
you choose to call them, as they all mean one and the same thing. 

Cocoa Gems 

} cup (4 ozs.) sugar or honey 1 cup (4 ozs.) flour 

2 tablespooDS (1 oz.) butter ) cup (2 ozs.) barley flour 

substitute 2 teaspoons cocoa 

} cup (1 gill) water 1 teaspoon baking powder 

2 eggs, beaten 

Cream sugar and butter substitute together, add water and 
flours, and beat well. Now add cocoa, baking powder, and eggs, 
mix well and divide into greased gem pans. Bake in hot oven 
twenty minutes. 

Com Bread 

2 cups (12 ozs.) yellow com meal 2 tablespoons brown sugar 

} cup (2 ozs.) flour 2 tablespoons (1 oz.) butter sub- 

i cup (2 ozs.) barley flour stitute 

1 teaspoon salt 1 egg, beaten 

2 teaspoons baking powder 1 cup (i pt.) milk 

Into a bowl put meal, flours, salt, baking powder, and sugar, 
rub in butter substitute with finger tips, add egg and milk. 
Mix well and turn into a greased large square pan. Spread a 
little butter substitute evenly over the top and bake in moderate 
oven twenty minutes. 

Another Method. Put one cup com meal into a bowl, add two 
cups floiu", one cup barley flour, and one teaspoon salt. Mix 
one yeast cake with one cup lukewarm water and one tablespoon 
sirup. Combine mixtiu'es, cover, and allow to rise. When 
light knead down, form into loaves, allow to rise again, and bake 
in moderate oven. 

Com Meal Doughnuts 

1 cup (6 ozs.) com meal 1 tablespoon (i oz.) butter 

3 cups (i lb.) barley or com substitute 

flour 4 tablespoons (2 ozs.) grated 

i teaspoon salt maple sugar 

3 teaspoons baking powder 2 eggs, beaten 

1 cup () pt.) milk 



34 BCONOBilCAL COOKBRT 

Into a bowl sift com mea], flour, salt, and baking powder. 
Beat butter substitute and sugar until creamy, add ^gs, and 
beat three minutes ; add milk and meal mixture. Turn out on 
floured baking board and roll out one fourth inch thick; cut 
with a floured doughnut cutter and fry in plenty anoking hot 
fat. Drain and sprinkle with powdered sugar. 

AnoOier Method. Beat one cup sugar with two ^gs until 
light, add one tablespoon melted butter, one cup milk, and two 
cups flour sifted with one half cup soy bean flour, three teaspoons 
baking powder, one half teaspoon each powdered nutm^ and 
salt. Mix well and drop by teaspoonfuls into smoking hot fat. 
Fry and drain on paper. 

Two tablespoons com meal may be added if liked. 

Com Meal Rolls 

1} cups (6 ozs.) flour 1 teaspopn salt 

} cup (4i ozB.) com meal 2 tablespoons (1 oz.) shortening 

4 teaspoons baking powder 1 egg, beaten 

2 teaspoons sugar } cup (1} gills) milk 

Into a bowl sift flour, com meal, baking powder, sugar, and 
salt, cut and rub in shortening, add egg and milk. Mix to a 
soft dough, tum out on floured board, roll out one half inch, and 
cut with a round cutter. Put a tiny piece of butter on each 
round, wet edges, and fold over so that edges meet. Brush over 
with nulk ; place on greased tins and bake in a hot oven twelve 
to fifteen minutes. Sufficient for fifteen rolls. 

Fairy Com Bread 

li cups (9 ozs.) com meal i teaspoon salt 

i cup (2 ozs.) flour or barley 1 e^, beaten 

flour 2 tablespoons (1 oz.) shortening, 

2} teaspoons baking powder melted 

i cup (1} gills) milk 

Sift com meal, flour, baking powder, and salt into a bowl, 
add egg, shortening, and milk. Mix well and tum into a large, 
well-greased shallow pan, spreading thin with a knife or spoon. 
It should be barely one fourth of an inch thick and will come 
out of the oven crisp and delicious. Bake in a moderately hot 
oven fifteen minutes. 



Bbowk Bread. Page SI. 



Biisiy Bbeid. Page 37. 



BBELiD, BISCTITB, MUFFINSy ROLLS, ETC. 35 

. Ginger Pancakes 

2 tablespoons flour Pinch salt 

1 egg I teaspoon powdered ginger 

i cup (1 gill) milk Lemon juice 

Sugar 

Beat all the ingredients well together five minutes. Ebve 
ready some hot fat in a fr3ring pan, and put mixture into it, 
a tablespoonful at a time. Fry quickly and turn when brown. 
The proper way to do this is to toss the pancake by shaking the 
pan, not to turn the pancake with a knife, though a novice will 
probably require to do it this way at first. When the second 
side is brown, remove pancake from pan and cook another, 
keeping the first hot meantime. When ready to serve roll 
each up, squeeze over a little lemon juice, and sprinkle with 
sugar. Serve with lemon and sugar. 

Pancakes without Eggs 

Sift two tablespoons flour and a pinch of salt into a bowl, and 
mix slowly into a batter with one half cup milk, add one table- 
spoon brown sugar, and a little powdered nutmeg. This batter 
must be beaten fifteen minutes, and each pancake will take about 
ten minutes to cook. If you have a large frying pan, two or 
three cakes can be cooked at the same time. These are delicious 
if eaten with brown sugar and butter. 

Savory Pancakes 

Few people realize how good savory pancakes are. They 
are easily made, of course substituting seasonings for sugar and 
flavoring, and stirring into batter chopped parsley, mushrooms, 
ham, or grated cheese as preferred ; these can be spread when 
ready with any mixture of cooked fish, meat, or chicken, and 
served dusted with salt and paprika, or with any gravy or sauce 
to taste. 

Graham Biscuits 

2 cups (10 OSS.) Graham flour 2 tablespoons (1 oz.) butter sub- 

3 teaspoons baldng powder stitute 

1 teaspoon salt 1 cup (i pt.) milk or water 



36 ECONOMICAL COOKEBT 

Put Graham flour into a bowl, add baking powder and salt. 
Cut and rub butter substitute into flour. Mix milk or water 
into flour with a knife, adding milk gradually. Turn out on 
to floured board and roll until one half inch thick. Cut in 
small rounds and bake in hot oven ten minutes. 

Graham Wafers 

2 cupe (12 0Z8.) brown sugar 1 cup (} pt.) milk 

1 cup (8 0Z8.) butter substitute 2 teaspoons soda 

2 eggs beaten 1 teaspoon salt 

6} cups (1} lbs.) Graham flour 

Cream sugar and butter substitute together, add eggs, milk, 
soda, salt, and flour. If not stiff add more flour. Turn out 
on floured baking board and roll out very thin, using white flour 
on board. Cut out with square cutter, lay on greased tins 
and bake in moderate oven ten minutes. 

Health Bread 

4 cups (12 ozs.) bran 1} teaspoons baking powder 

} cup (2 ozs.) flour or potato flour 1 teaspoon soda 
1 cup (4 ozs.) barley flour 1 tablespoon salt 

1 cup (6 ozs.) com meal 2 cups (1 pt.) milk 

1 cup (} pt.) molasses 

Mix dry ingredients thoroughly, add milk and molasses. Stir 
well, turn uito floured and greased pan, cover with a greased 
paper, steam two hours, then bake one hour. 

Liberty Bread 

1 yeast cake 1 cup (} pt.) cooked oatmeal 

1 cup (I pt.) lukewarm water 1 cup (i pt.) mashed potatoes 

1 teaspoon salt 1 cup (4 ozs.) barley flour 

1 cup (0 ozs.) com meal 1 cup (4 ozs.) floiur 

Dissolve yeast in water, add salt, com meal, oatmeal, potatoes, 
and flours. Turn out on to floured board and knead imtil 
bubbles begin to show on the dough. Allow to rise until doubled 
in bulk, knead down again, divide into greased pans, allow to 
rise until it again doubles in bulk, and bake in moderate oven 
fifty minutes. 



BBBADy BI8GUITB, HXTFFINS^ BOLLS, BTC. 37 

Oatmeal Bread 

2 cups (1 pt.) rolled oats 1 tablespoon salt 

2 tablespoons (1 oz.) butter sub- 1 yeast cake, or } cup liquid 

stitute yeast 

f cup (li gills) molasses 1 cup (4 oxs.) barley flour 

4 cups (1 qt.) boiling water Wheat flour 

Into a bowl put oats, add butter substitute, molasses, boiling 
water, and salt ; let stand until lukewarm, then add yeast cake 
dissolved in a little lukewarm water, barley flour, and seven 
cups wheat flour. Mix well and allow to rise until light. Add 
suflicient flour to knead, and knead well on floured board, divide 
into three greased bread pans, allow to rise until light, and 
bake one and one half hours in moderate oven. 

This bread is excellent. 

Raisin Bread 

i cup (1 gill) milk 2 cups (i lb.) flour 

} cup (I gill) water 1 cup (5 ozs.) Graham flour 

1 teaspoon salt 1 yeast cake 

1 tableq)Oon sirup 2 cups (12 ozs.) seedless raisins 

4 tablespoons tepid water 

Put milk and water into warm bowl and add salt, sirup, yeast 
cake dissolved in tepid water ; then add flours, mix thoroughly, 
and knead to smooth dough. Let rise to double in bulk, beat 
in raisins, shape, and place in well-greased bread pan, allow to 
rise again, brush over with milk, and bake in hot oven one hour. 

The raisin is one of the most important of the energy-producing 
foods of man because of its high percentage of carbohydrates. 
Its protein value is 2.6 per cent., and the percentage of its 
acids, which are important in the process of digestion and 
assimilation, 2.7 per cent. The value of the raisin is by no 
means confined to its percentage of carbohydrates, for analysis 
of the ash shows that it is rich in many of the elements essential 
to health. 

The following comparison of food values is supplied by the 
U. S. Department of Agriculture : 

1 lb. of Raisins equals 1} lbs. of beef. 

1 lb. of Raisiiis equals 4} lbs. of fiah. 



38 BCONOiaCAL COOKBBT 

1 lb. of Raisins equals 1 lb. of bread. 
1 lb. of Raisins equals 4^ lbs. of potatoes. 
1 lb. of Raisins equals 4 lbs. of milk. 
1 lb. of Raisins equals 2 lbs. of eggs. 
1 lb. of Raisins equals 6 lbs. of apples. 
1 lb. of Raisins equals 5 lbs. of bananas. 

Rye Griddlecakes 

2 cups (11 ozs.) rye flour } teaspoon salt 

1 cup (5 ozs.) Graham flour 4 teaspoons baking powder 

1 cup (4 ozs.) flour 1 egg 

1 tablespoon (i oz.) sugar 2 cups (1 pt.) milk 

Sift together flours, sugar, salt, and baking powder. Add 
egg and milk mixed to a smooth batter. Bake brown on both 
sides on a hot greased griddle and serve with sirup or butter. 

Sour Cream Waflles 

1 cup (} pt.) soiur cream 1 egg, beaten 

i teaspoon soda 1 cup (4 ozs.) whole wheat flour 

} teaspoon salt 1 cup (4 ozs.) flour 

2 teasi>oons sugar } cup (1} gills) milk 

1 teaspoon baking powder 

Pour cream into a bowl, add soda, salt, sugar, egg, flours sifted 
with baking powder and milk. Mix well, and bake on well- 
greased waffle iron. Serve with sirup or honey. 

Southern Waflles 

2 cups (i lb.) flour 2 tablespoons (1 oi.) butter 

1 cup (i lb.) barley flour substitute, mdted 
} teaspoon salt 2 eggs, beaten 

2 teaspoons baking powder 2 cups (1 pt.) milk 

Maple sirup or powdered sugar 

Into a bowl sift floiu^, salt, and baking powder, add butter 
substitute, eggs, and milk, and mix carefully. Cook on well- 
hea.ted and greased waffle irpns, and serve with maple sirup or 
powdered sugar. 



BREAD, BISCUITS, MUFFINS, BOLLS, BTC. 39 



Nut and Raisin Brown Bread 

1 teaspoon soda 1 cup (4 ozs.) chopped English 
i cup (7 ozs.) molasses waJnut meats 

2 cups (1 pt.) sweet or sour milk I cup (4 ozs.) flour or barley 
} cup (3 ozs.) brown sugar flour 

1 teaspoon salt 2 cups (10 ozs.) Graham flour 

1 cup (i lb.) seeded raisms 

Stir soda into molasses, add milk, sugar, salt, nuts, flours, and 
raisins. Mix and turn into greased and floured narrow pan, and 
bake one hour in moderate oven. 



Nut Bread 

2 cups (i lb.) flour i cup (4 ozs.) grated maple sugar 

2 cups (12 ozs.) buckwheat flour 1 egg, beaten 
4 teaspooDs baking powder 2 cups (1 pt.) milk 

1 teaspoon salt 1 cup (4 ozs.) chopped English 

walnut meats 

Into a bowl sift flours, baking powder, salt, and sugar, add egg, 
milk, and nuts. Mix well, divide into two greased and floured 
cake tins, allow to rise twenty minutes, then bake in moderate 
oven fifty minutes. 

When sliced thin, buttered, uad made into sandwiches, 
this bread is delicious for afternoon tea. 

When using buckwheat flour in bread recipes, use the plain 
buckwheat flour, not self-rising buckwheat flour. 

Polled Bread 

New loaves bread 

Remove crusts from bread and puU out pieces of the crumb 
with two forks. Place these pieces on a baking tin and bake in 
moderate oven until they are crisp and biscuit-colored. These 
are good with coffee, chocolate, soups, or cheese. The dried 
pieces keep well in an air-tight tin. The crumb of fresh biscuits 
left over can be treated in the same way. They should be 
heated in the oven when served. 



40 ESCONOMICAL COOKERY 

^ Raisin Scones 

2 cups (i lb.) flour 6 tablespoons (3 ozs.) sugar or honey 

1 cup (4 ozs.) barley flour i cup (3 ozs.) Sultana raisins 

} teaspoon salt 1 teaspoon grated lemon rind 

4 teaspoons baking powder 2 eggs, beaten 

} cup (4 ozs.) butter or lard } cup (1) gills) milk 

Into a bowl sift flours, salt, and baking powder, cut and rub 
in butter or lard, add sugar, raisins, rind, eggs, and milk. Mix 
and turn out on to a floured baking board, divide into three pieces, 
make each portion into a smooth round, roll out and cut into four 
scones. Lay on greased tins, brush over with a little milk, and 
bake in a moderate oven for twelve to fifteen minutes. 

Rye Bread 

Lukewarm water 1} teaspoons salt 

1 teaspoon sugar 2 teaspoons caraway seeds 

1 yeast cake Rye flour 

In one fourth cup lukewarm water dissolve sugar and yeast 
cake, turn into a bowl, add pint lukewarm water, salt, caraway 
seeds, and two cups rye flour. Stir well and let rise in warm 
place two hours. It should be full of bubbles when ready. Now 
add sufl&cient rye flour — about four and one half cups — to 
make stiff dough, work well ten minutes, and again let rise two 
hours. Turn out on to floured board and knead well. Divide 
into two loaves, place in greased pans, and allow to rise until they 
begin to crack on surface, brush over with cold water, and put in 
oven. Bake one hour and do not open door until bread has 
been in ten minutes. The oven should be very hot at first. 
Cover bread with greased paper as soon as it is brown on top. 

Another Method, Scald three fourths pint milk in a double 
boiler, add two tablespoons butter substitute, one third cup 
sirup, and one teaspoon salt. When lukewarm add one yeast 
cake dissolved in one fourth cup lukewarm water, and mix with 
one cup buckwheat flour and two cups flour. Allow to rise imtil 
light, then add enough rye meal to make stiff dough and knead 
five minutes. Cover and allow to rise overnight and early in 
the morning cut dough down, knead it a little, and place it in a 



BBBAD, BISCUITS, MUFFINS, ROLLS, ETC. 41 

large greased round pan. Let dough rise until doubled in size ; 
brush over with water and bake in moderate oven ope hour. 

Tea Scones 

2 eggs, beaten } cup (3 ozs.) brown sugar 

i teaspoon salt 1 cup (i pt.) milk 

2 tablespoons (1 oz.) butter 4 teaspoons baking powder 

substitute 2 cups (} lb.) flour 

2 cups (i lb.) barley flour 

Beat eggs with salt. Cream butter substitute and sugar 
together, add eggs and milk. Sift baking powder with flours 
and sUr in one half and beat well ; then stir in rest of flour. 
Turn on to a floured baking board and roll to one half inch in 
thickness, cut in triangles, brush tops with milk, put on greased 
pans, and bake in a hot oven ten to twelve minutes. 

Wheat Bread 

1 yeast cake 2 tablespoons (1 oz.) butter sub- 

3 cups (1} pts.) lukewarm water stitute, melted 

lOi cups (2 lbs. 10 ozs.) flour 2 tablespoons (1 oz.) sugar 

1 tablespoon salt 

Dissolve yeast in one and one half cups of the water, add two 
and one half cups of the flour, and beat well. Allow to rise 
until top of batter is covered with large bubbles, then add re- 
mainder of flour, remainder of water, butter substitute, sugar, 
and salt. Knead well on a lightly floured board, allow to rise 
until it doubles its bulk, and divide into two greased bread 
pans ; let rise again, brush over with warm milk, and bake in 
moderate oven one hour. 

Whole Wheat Gems 

} cup (2 ozs.) drippings 1 teaspoon soda 

) cup (4i ozs.) brown sugar 1 teaspoon salt 

1 egg i cup (2 ozs.) flour 

1} cups (} pt.) buttermilk or sour li cups (6 ozs.) whole wheat 
milk flour 

Cream drippings and sugar, break in egg and beat well, add 
soda dissolved in milk, add salt sifted with white flour, and stir 



42 ECONOMICAL COOKERY 

in whole wheat flour. Mix well and divide into twelve greased 
and floured mufSn or gem tins and bake in hot oven fifteen 
minutes. Serve hot or cold. 

Virginia Com Bread 

2 cups (12 ozs.) com meal 1 cup (i pt.) milk 

1 teaspoon salt 2 eggs, beaten 

2 cups (1 pt.) boiling water 1 tablespoon (i oz.) lard, melted 

4 teaspoons baking powder 

Into a bowl sift com meal and salt, add water, milk, eggs, lard, 
and baking powder. Mix well and tiun into a well-greased 
pan and bake in moderate oven forty minutes. 



CHAPTER V 

CER£ALS 

''The more the fire eats starch, the less we have to eat it/' 

In considering cereals one rarely thinks of them as seeds or 
fruits of girasses, but such they are. In these seeds, cultivated 
for food supply, are secured the various nutritive ingredients ; 
and when reduced to a form readily digestible, which means 
thoroughly cooked, and used with milk, cream, butter, cheese 
or eggs, they form a perfect diet. 

Cereals include oats, wheat, rye, barley, com, rice, and buck- 
wheat. Hominy, samp, and farina are unfamiliar cereals which 
should be more often served. The first is a fine grain 
made from white com. Samp is also made from com, but 
coarsely broken. Farina is a meal composed of wheat and com. 

The necessity of modem conditions among people has produced 
a variety of patented preparations, partially or wholly cooked 
or prepared in such a manner that the shortest possible time is re- 
quired for their serving. Some are the transposition of the whole 
wheat into shreds, others are granular preparations, while still 
others are in the form of flakes. Then there are the unnumbered 
sorts of biscuits and cakes made from cereals, thoroughly cooked ; 
and so the housewife is presented with the entire grain in a more 
digestible form for food than can be produced by the average 
cook. 

When unpatented cereals are cooked, a reliable rule is that 
the coarser the grain the more water will be required and the 
longer will be the time of cooking. Whole grains are much 
improved by soaking in cold water to soften before cooking. 
Finely ground preparations, such as com meal, groimd rice, 
etc., should be mixed with cold water first to prevent the forma- 

43 



44 ECONOiaCAL COOEBBT 

tion of lumps, while flaked preparations must be sprinkled 
through the fingers into boiling water, one teaspoon of salt 
being used for every four cups of water. Scotch oatmeal needs 
four times its bulk of water, cracked wheat requires four and 
one half times its bulk, while rolled grains require but twice 
their bulk. The uncrushed oatmeal and cracked wheat require 
long cooking, and even the roUed cereals are not injured by 
cooking longer than directions call for. AU starches must be 
thoroughly cooked. 

Cereal breakfast foods of different kinds are used to a greater 
or less extent in the preparation of made dishes. Thus, a 
steamed fruit pudding may be made with oatmeal, and very 
dainty little cakes can be made from some of the dry flaked 
cereals. Fried hominy and fried com meal mush are standard 
foods sometimes served with fried chicken and some other 
dishes, and boiled rice is a conmion substitute for potatoes or 
other starchy foods. Cereals should be bought in small quanti- 
ties, and kept in glass jars, tightly covered and labeled. 

Arrowroot Porridge 

1 teaspoon arrowroot Pinch salt 

1 cup (i pt.) boiling water 1 cup (} pt.) milk 
2 teaspoons sugar or honey 

Mix arrowroot into a smooth paste with a little cold water 
and add it, with salt, to water. Stir constantly until it becomes 
clear. Pour in milk, add sugar or honey, and boil fifteen 
minutes. Keep stirring all the time and serve hot. 

Barley and Prunes 

1 cup (I pt.) barley 1 teaspoon salt 

4 cups (1 qt.) water 24 prunes, stoned 

1 tablespoon {i oz.) sugar or honey 

Wash barley, cover it with cold water, bring to the boil, and 
drain well. Put it into a saucepan with the quart of water and 
salt. Bring slowly to boiling point, then simmer two and one 
half hours. 

Wash prunes, cover with cold water, and soak two hours. 
One hour before barley is ready add prunes and water in which 



GBREALS 49 

they were soaked. Also add sugar or honey. If barley is too 
thick add a little more water. 
Serve with milk or cream. 

Boiled Hominy 

1 cap (i pt.) ooaise hominy 10 cups (5 pts.) boiling water 

2 teaspoons salt 

Stir hominy and salt into water, and cook eight to ten hours, 
or, soak hominy overnight and boil two hours. Serve with 
milk. Ck)ok one cup fine hominy in six cups boiling water, 
add salt to taste, stirring occasionally, one and one half hours. 
Serve with milk, or with maple sirup. 

Fried Hominy 

Take left-over cold hominy and cut it in slices above three 
fourths of an inch thick. Floiu: them well on both sides. Melt 
some butter substitute in a small saucepan, put in a few slices 
of hominy at a time and fry until browned on both sides. Drain 
and serve hot. Fried hominy may be served either as a separate 
course or as an accompaniment to cooked kidneys, or fish, etc. 
The slices may be brushed over with milk or egg and tossed in 
com meal or bread crumbs if preferred. 

Another Method, Grease fireproof dish, put in layer of cooked 
hominy, then layer of minced steak, season with salt and pepper, 
add one tablespoon tomato catchup, or chopped tomato will 
do; make alternate layers until dish is full, bake one hour. 
Serve hot. Cooked macaroni or spaghetti may be used in 
place of hominy. 

Boiled Rice 

1 cup (} lb.) rice 4 cups (1 qt.) boiling water 

1 teaspoon salt 

Sprinkle rice and salt into water, and cook it at a gallop till 
grains are tender. Drain it, saving water for soup. Hold it in 
a colander under cold tap, and let cold water flow freely on it 
just for a minute. Then put it back into pan, and set it at the 



46 ECONOMICAL COOKERY 

side of fire in a gentle heat, so that it may wann up again, 
shaking pan every now and then to keep grains from sticking 
to the bottom. 

Do not let colander stay under tap more than a minute. Do 
not warm up rice too fast, or it will bum. Serve with milk. 

Or, steam one cup rice with three cups boiling water, adding 
teaspoon salt, in ^greased fireproof dish four hom^. Cooked in 
this way, every grain will be separate. Serve with milk, sirup, 
or honey. 

To Boil Bice Soft. This process makes rice into a thick 
creamy paste. Put rice into cold salted water and bring it to 
the boil. Then draw it to the side of the fire, and simmer one 
and one half hours, stirring it now and then to keep it from 
sticking, and taking care that it does not cook dry. If at the 
end of that time there is any liquid left, drain it off, but imless you 
put in a great deal of water at first, there won't be any — the 
rice will have absorbed it all. Serve with milk, preserves, honey, 
or sirup. One half cup raisins added to boiled rice impart a 
fine flavor. Left-over cooked rice may be made into a pudding 
by the addition of milk and eggs; this, too, is improved by 
addition of raisins, figs, or cut-up dates. A pudding such as 
this requires less baking than one made of uncooked rice. 

Brewis 

1 cup (4 ozB.) bread crumbs } teaspoon salt 

3 cups (1} pts.) milk 2 tablespoons (1 oz.) butter sub- 

stitute 

Heat milk in double boiler, add bread crumbs, salt and butter 
substitute, and cook, beating steadily until milk is absorbed. 
This may be varied by adding a little chopped onion, or chopped 
parsley, or a little celery salt, or powdered herbs. Serve hot 
with milk. Brewis may be served in place of mush for breakfast 
and is an appetizing way of using stale bread. 

Cereal Croquettes 

2 cups (1 pt.) cooked cereal } teaspoon salt 

1 tablespoon milk 3 tablespoons chopped dates, or 

1 egg, separated raisins 

Fine bread crumby 



CEREALS . 47 

Reheat cereal with milk, add yolk of egg, salt, and fruit, and 
turn out to cool. Fonn into neat croquettes, brush over with 
beaten white of egg, toss in bread crumbs, and fry in plenty of 
smoking hot fat. Drain and serve hot with sirup. These 
croquettes are excellent served with a little crisped bacon for a 
breakfast dish. 

Cereal Mush 

2 cups (1 pt.) fine cereal 2 cups (1 pt.) boiling water 

3 teaspooDB flour 1 teaspoon salt 

Maple sirup, honey, or molasses 

Mix cereal and flour together, stir into water and add salt ; 
stir and cook imtil it is as thick as can be stirred with a wooden 
spoon. Drop by spoonfuls on to a hot greased griddle and mash 
down so that cakes will be one fourth inch in thickness. Fry 
brown on both sides and serve with maple sirup, honey, or 
molasses. 

The flavor is far superior to mush fried after it has been 
allowed to become cold. This dish is light and easily digested. 

Cereal with Dates 

1 cup (} lb.) fine cereal 1 teaspoon salt 

4 cups (1 qt.) boiling water } cup (2 ozs.) stoned dates 

Stir cereal into boiling water, add salt, and cook in double 
boiler one hour ; add dates and cook ten minutes longer. Serve 
hot with milk. This will mold well. 

Figs, raisins, or stoned prunes may be used instead of dates. 

Com Meal Mush 

4 cups (1 qt.) boiling water 1 cup (6 ozs.) com meal 

1 teaspoon salt Molasses, or sirup, or honey 

Put boiling water into double boiler, add salt, and stir in com 
meal, stir well every few minutes to prevent Imnping, and cook 
one hoiu*. Poiu* into greased mold. When cold, slice and fry 
in hot fat until a golden color. Serve with molasses, or sirup, 
or honey, or crushed or sweetened fruits which have been allowed 
to stand until juice is extracted. One half cup chopped nut 



48 ECONOMICAL COOKEBY 

meats, or one half cup chopped figs, or raisins, or dates may be 
added to above mixture. Stir in nuts or fruit thirty minutes 
before serving. Serve with milk. 

To make savory mush, add one half teaspoon powdered herbs 
and one half tablespoon chopped parsley, and omit nuts or fruit. 
Fry a few slices of bacon and brown the mush in the hot 
drippings. Serve hot together. Milk may be used instead of 
boiling water ; skim milk will do. 

Each shce of mush may be dipped in beaten egg or milk and 
then in cracker or bread crumbs and fried as above. 

The secret of good mush is long, slow cooking. 

Another Method. About eight o'clock in the morning make a 
rather thin mush of coarse yellow com meal and boiling water 
well salted, with one tablespoon sugar to each quart of mush. 
Boil ten minutes, stirring constantly. Then put saucepan where 
it will boil slowly and let it cook all day, adding a little boiling 
water from time to time. Stir gently every few minutes. All 
day long it must be watched and stirred. Serve at six o'clock in 
dainty bowls with milk or cream. 

Com meal contains about four and one half times as much fat 
as wheat, and three times as much mineral matter. Wheat flour 
contains a little more protein, or muscle-making material, than 
com meal, and a very small amoimt of starch. 

Country Porridge 

1 cup (} lb.) rice 1 cup (} pt.) milk 

1 cup (} lb.) barley 1 teaspoon salt 

Wash rice and barley thoroughly in boiling water, then simmer 
gently five hours, keeping grains well covered ¥^th boiling water. 
When cooked, strain off any superfluous water, and set this 
aside for soup. Next morning add milk to rice and barley, 
bring it to the boU, add salt, and serve very hot. 

Cracked Wheat 

4 cups (1 qt.) boiling water 1 cup (i pt.) cracked wheat 

1 teaspoon salt 

Put water into a saucepan, stir in cracked wheat and salt, 
and cook two and one half hours. Serve with milk, maple 



CBRBALS ^ 49 

drup, or honey. Left-over cracked wheat may be made into a 
pudding. Into one cup of left-over cracked wheat, add two 
beaten eggs, one cup milk, three tablespoons honey, one teaspoon 
vanilla extract, and one half cup chopped dates, or figs, or 
raisins. Turn into greased fireproof dish and bake forty minutes 
in a moderate oven. Serve hot or cold with milk. 

Farina Flummery 

1} cups (i lb.) farina 4 teaspoons sugar or hon^ 

i teaspoon salt 2 tablespoons fruit juice 

Cover farina with cold water and allow to stand twenty-foiu* 
hours, drain gR water, cover again, and stand again twenty-four 
hours. Add salt, and boil imtil very thick, stirring all the time, 
then add sugar or honey and fruit juice, mix well, pour into 
plates or saucers, and serve hot or cold with cream or sugar. 

Oatmeal may be used instead of farina. 

Farina Mush 

4 cups (1 qt.) boiling milk 2 tablespoons (1 os.) butter sub- 

i cup (i lb.) farina stitute 

1 teaspoon salt 

Into milk stir slowly farina, add butter substitute and salt, 
and cook in double boiler forty minutes. Serve hot or cold with 
cream and sugar. Or, cook as above, poiu* into greased shallow 
dish, allow it to become cold, cut into slices and fry in hot fat. 

Or, season two cups cooked farina with a httle salt, a dash of 
pepper, and a few drops onion juice. Shape into small balls, 
dip in melted fat, and bake in hot oven ; or roll in egg or milk 
and then in crumbs or crushed vermicelli, and brown in smoking 
hot fat. Serve with meat in place of potatoes. 

Frumenty 

4 cups (1 qt.) cracked wheat 1 cup (} lb.) currants 

4 cups (1 qt.) hot milk 1 teaspoon salt 

1 cup (i lb.) seeded raisins 4 tablespoons honey or sirup 

i teaspoon powdercxl nutmeg 



50 BCONOiaCAL GOOKHBY 

Soak cracked wheat in cold water overnight; then cook in 
the water until very soft, adding more boiling water if necessary. 
Now add milk, raisuis, currants, salt, honey or sirup, and nutmeg, 
and cook ten minutes longer. 

Mixed Breakfast Cereal 

i cup (1 gill) rolled oats } cup (1 gill) hominy grits 

i cup (1 gill) barley 6 cups (3 pts.) warm water 

Soak overnight rolled oats, barley, and hominy grits in water. 
Next morning cook one hour and fifteen minutes. Serve with 
milk. 

If liked, sprinkle over with a little powdered nutmeg. 

Oatmeal and Cheese 

2} cups (1 lb.) fine oatmeal 1 tablespoon (} oz.) butter sub- 

4 cups (1 qt.) boiling water stitute 

1 teaspoon salt 2 cups (i lb.) grated cheese 

Cook oatmeal in water, add salt, and before serving stir in 
butter, and cheese. The cheese should be mild in flavor and 
soft in texture, and the stirring be continued until cheese is 
thoroughly melted and incorporated with cereal. 

Oats contain all the constituents necessary for the maintenance 
of high bodily vigor. . It is one of those foods, especially with the 
addition of milk, capable of supporting life for an indefinite 
period. Oatmeal is a highly nutritious food, and its assimilating 
properties are imsurpassed. Oatmeal should be taken often in 
place of meat and potatoes at breakfast. 

Oatmeal Porridge 

1} cups (i lb.) oatmeal 4 cups (2 pts.) boiling water 

1 teaspoon salt 

Sprinkle oatmeal into water, stir and cook until porridge is 
smooth and beginning to thicken, add salt, and allow porridge 
to cook one hour. The porridge must be stirred occasionally 
during cooking, and if it becomes too thick, add a little more 



CERBAL6 51 

boiling water. Pour, into plates and serve with milk. Or, 
put oatmeal and water into a bowl, cover, and stand overnight. 
Turn into a saucepan, stir over fire until boiling, add salt to 
taste, and allow to cook forty minutes. Or, meal and water 
may be soaked in a double boiler overnight and boiling water 
put in outer pan next day, cooking it a longer time, but it re- 
quires little attention beyond an occasional stir and attention 
80 that the water underneath boils all the time and does not 
reduce too much. There need be no fear of porridge burning. 
Sirup, brown sugar, or milk may be served with porridge if 
liked. Oatmeal and barley, or hominy, in equal parts, may be 
used for porridge with good results. 

To Make Porridge Cakes. Form left-over cold cooked por- 
ridge into a paste by placing it in a bowl and kneading in enough 
flour to make it thick. Flour a baking board and roU out porridge 
to three fourths inch in thickness. Cut into three-cornered 
pieces and bake twenty minutes on a griddle or in a quick oven. 
When cooked, split cakes open, butter them, and serve hot. 
They form a dish that is just as tempting for tea as for breakfast. 

Rolled Oats Porridge 

1 cup (i pt.) rolled oats 4 cups (1 qt.) boiling water 

1 teaspoon salt 

Stir rolled oats into boiling water, add salt, and cook in double 
boiler one hour. Serve with milk. 

For left-over cereal put it into greased molds, scoop out 
inside, fill with stewed, canned, or fresh fruit cut into dice and 
sweetened, cover top with cereal, and stand in refrigerator two 
hours. 

A plate of cooked cereal which has a little hot gravy poured 
over it, is often liked by children who do not care for it when 
it is served with milk and sugar. 

A nice way of serving porridge is to make a well in the center 
of the porridge on the plate, fill it up with maple sirup or honey, 
either hot or cold, and cover surface of porridge with milk or 
cream, or pour over baked apples. 

Leftover porridge may be used for soup. 



52 ECONOMICAL COOKERY 

Rye Meal Mush 

1 oup pt.) rye meal 1 cup (i pt.) cold water 

1 teaspoon salt 4 cups (1 qt.) boiling water 

Mix meal and salt together and beat in cold water to make 
a smooth batter. Then add boiling water and cook thirty 
minutes, stirring constantly until thick, then stir occasionally 
and cook one hour and fifteen minutes. Serve with milk or 
sirup. 



Farina Hush. Page 49. 



Cebea^ «-:th Datk-1. Page 47. 



EoGs in NesTs. Page 5 



Makinu Eqg Dibheb. 



CHAPTER VI 

BGGS AND OMELETS 

" A dish fit for the gods." 

Thb yolk of an egg is popularly supposed to be of a different 
nature from the white. But it is only oil that makes the yolk 
different and its proportion of yellow coloring matter. The 
white is merely albumen mixed with water; it contains a due 
proportion of saline matter which renders this natural water not 
at all insipid. All the potashes, sulphurs, sodas, magnesias, and 
acids found in the human system are in the egg-«tuff, ready in 
proper form for due absorption when the egg, rightly cooked, is 
eaten. Of actual protein, there is only about fourteen per cent. 
in the white ; the rest of it is egg-liquid, i,e., water enriched with 
saline matter. The yolk, identical with the white in its base, 
the building stuff, protein or proteid, has yet a slightly higher 
percentage of it, viz., fifteen per cent. In addition, it holds 
more sulphur and the yellow pigment so rich in tint in a good 
egg. The yolk depends upon its protein for its building attri- 
butes and on its oil for its warmth-making power. There is as 
much as thirty per cent, of this egg oil in the yolk and none in 
the white. The oil contains an acid as all oils do, and is the 
cause of the thickening of the yolk portion of the matter within 
the shell. 

In egg cookery most people know that great heat is endtuing 
because it coagulates the albimien, making the egg what is known 
as hard. Hard-cooked eggs cannot be digested save with great 
difficulty and disturbance. Gentle cooking is essential for eggs. 

Omelets are of two Unds, according to the way they are mixed 

and cooked : 

53 



54 ECONOMICAL COOKBBT 

1. Plain omelets, sweet or savory. 

2. Omelet soiiffl^, sweet or savory. 

When making omelets, have everything needed ready at 
hand. Chop all seasonings and flavorings fine. Break the 
eggps into a bowl ; beat well with a fork, and stir in seasoning? 
and one third of the butter, cut in small pieces ; season with salt 
and pepper. 

Melt a Uttle fat in omelet or frying pan, and then, when fat is 
smoking hot, pour away and rub out with white paper — this 
prevents the omelet from sticking to the pan later. Melt rest 
of butter until it froths, then pour in egg mixture and stir lightly 
with a fork until just setting, then quickly scrape into a half- 
moon shape in the side of the pan, and leave for two or three 
seconds to set Hghtly. Place a hot dish against the side of the 
pan, and with a quick movement, invert the omelet on to it. 
Serve immediately. 

When making omelet souffles have eversrthing ready before 
commencing. Chop all seasonings and flavorings fine. Separate 
yolka and whites of eggs, and mix former with seasonings. Beat 
whites to a stiff froth and fold lightly into mixture with a metal 
spoon. Prepare omelet pan as above and melt butter until it 
froths. Pour in mixture, and cook lightly till sUghtly brown 
on under side, shaking pan and keeping edges free. Brown top, 
fold over quickly, and turn out on to hot dish. 



Alpine Eggs 

} small onion 2 eggs 

2 tablespoons (1 oz.) butter sub- i teaspoon salt 

stitute } teaspoon pepper 

i cup (2 ozs.) cheese 1 teaspoon chopped parsley 

Peel and slice onion. Melt one tablespoon of the butter 
substitute, add onion, and fry a light brown. Put fried onion 
in a small, well-greased fireproof dish, add cheese cut in very 
thin slices, break eggs on top, add seasonings, dot with remainder 
of butter substitute, and bake in quick oven ten minutes. 
Sprinkle with parsley and serve at once. 



BOGS AND OMELETS 55 

. Eggs k La Creole 

1 tablespoon capers 
Butter 2 tablespoons chopped mushrooms 

Chopped parsl^ 3 drops onion juice 

} can tomatoes } teaspoon salt 

} teaspoon pepper 

Take bs many small molds as are required, grease them, and 
sprinkle with parsley. Break into each one a new-laid egg. 
Stand molds in a little boiling water, cover, and let steam ten 
minutes. 

Into saucepan put tomatoes, add capers, mushrooms, season- 
ings, and tablespoon butter. Simmer ten minutes. Turn eggs 
out on to a hot dish and pour sauce round them. 

Eggs k La Frankf ord 

3 tablespoons chopped cooked meat 2 eggs, beaten 

or chicken } cup (1 gill) milk 

1 tablespoon chopped parsley } teaspoon salt 

i teaspoon pepper 

Mix meat and parsley together, grease small molds, and line 
them with meat mixture. Beat up eggs, add milk and season- 
ings, three parts fill molds, stand in pan of boiling water to 
come within one half inch of top, simmer slowly until set. 
Turn out on hot dish and pour around base a sauce made as 
follows : Beat up one egg, add one half cup milk, seasoning of 
salt and pepper, and stir over the fire until slightly thickened, 
pour into dish and serve. 

Egg Charlotte 

Butter substitute Chopped parsley 

Bread Salt and pepper 

Mild cheese Eggs 

Take a flat earthenware dish, and grease it well with butter 
substitute. Lay in it some very thin slices of bread and cover 
these with thin slices of soft, mild cheese. Sprinkle with 
parsley, salt, and pepper. Then break some eggs — one for 
each person — and drop them carefully, side by side, on cheese. 
Bake in moderate oven until eggs are set. Serve hot. 



56 ECONOBfiCAL COOKERT 

Egg Croquettes 

2 hard-cooked eggis, chopped i cup (1 gill) water 

2 tablespoons (1 oz.) butter sub- i cup (2 ozs.) grated cheese 
stitute } cup (1 oz.) bread crumbs 

1 tablespoon flour 1 teaspoon salt 

i teaspoon pepper 

Melt butter substitute in a saucepan, add flour and when 
smooth, pour in water and mix to a tJiick sauce, add eggs, 
cheese, bread crumbs and seasonings. Mix well together and 
turn out to get cold. Divide into equal parts, form into neat 
croquettes, brush over with milk or beaten egg, toss in bread 
crumbs or crushed vermicelli, and fry in smoking hot fat to a 
golden color. Drain and serve hot. 

Eggs in Nests 

Rounds toasted bread Eggs 

Deviled ham or meat Salt and pepper 

Parsley 

Spread rounds of bread with contents of one small can deviled 
ham or meat. Beat up egg whites to a stiff froth, season lightly 
with salt and pepper, pile on top of ham, make well in center 
and drop in egg yolks. Bake in moderate oven until eggs 
are set. Garnish with parsley and serve hot. 

Another Method. Make two cups mashed potato very hot, 
add three tablespoons butter substitute, two tablespoons hot 
milk, one half teaspoon salt, and one fourth teaspoon pepper. 
Form into nest shapes on a hot greased baking dish, break an egg 
into each, and bake in hot oven till set. Serve hot. A little 
grated cheese may be sprinkled over each egg. 

Griddled Eggs 

Eggs 4 tablespoons (1 oz.) flour or 

Bacon cornstarch 

4 tablespoons (2 ozs.) butter sub- 2 cups (1 pt.) milk 

stitute 2 teaspoons chopped parsley 

i teaspoon salt } teaspoon pepper 

Heat a griddle, grease it well, also grease as many muffin 
rings as there are eggs to cook, and break an egg into each ring; 



BGGS AND OMELETS 57 

when white is set, turn carefully with a turner, and cook other 
side for a few seconds, then put each egg on to sUces of grilled 
bacon and cover with the sauce made as follows : Blend butter 
substitute and flour in a saucepan, stir in milk, bring to boiling 
point, cook eight minutes, add seasonings, and pour over eggs. 
Serve hot. 

Indian Eggs 

2 hard-cooked eggs 1 pinch powdered nutmeg 

1 tablespoon chutney } teaspoon paprika 

1 teaspoon lemon juice 1 tablespoon (i oz.) butter sub- 
1 gherkin, chopped fine stitute 

Shredded lettuce 

Cut eggs in halves, take out yolks, mix them with chutney, 
lemon juice, gherkin, seasonings, and butter substitute. Mix 
well and pack into eggs as neatly as possible. Serve on lettuce. 



Poached Eggs in Milk 

2 eggs Milk 

1 pinch salt Rounds of buttered toast 

Poaching an egg practically means boiling it in water or milk 
without the sheU. To poach eggs in milk, three parts fill a 
small frying pan with miUc, add salt, break eggs into a saucer, 
taking care not to break the yolks, and slip them into milk 
when boiling. Cook gently five minutes. Take up with a 
slice, and trim off rough edge of each egg, place them on toast, 
pour a little of the milk on the plate or dish, and serve at once. 

An egg poacher or small muffin rings placed in the pan will 
help to keep the eggs in better shape. 

Scrambled Eggs with Tomatoes 

2 tablespoons (1 oz.) butter sub- 1 teaspoon salt 

stitute i teaspoon pepper 

2 tomatoes, peeled and chopped 2 eggs^ beaten 
1 teaspoon chopped onion 3 tablespoons chopped cooked 

meat or ham 



58 ECONOMICAL COOKERT 

Melt butter substitute, add tomatoes, onion, seasoningSy and 
meat, and cook ten minutes. Take pan from fire, add eggs, 
return to fire, and stir until mixture thickeDs. Serve hot. 

Stir one tablespoon grated cheese into an egg before scrambling 
it. This gives a very delicious flavor, and makes it nourish- 
ing. 

Steamed Eggs 

ESggs Baoon 

Chopped parsley Buttered toasted bread 

For each egg grease a small cup and sprinkle in a little chopped 
parsley. Break eggs in carefully, place cups side by side in a 
saucepan containing boiling water to one half their depth, and 
keep water barely simmering until they set. Pass a knife 
around them before turning them out on to broiled slices of 
bacon or rounds of buttered toast. 

Another Method. This is considered one of the most digestible 
ways of cooking eggs. Place the required number of new-laid 
eggs in a warm fireproof dish, large enough to hold the egg? and 
water to well «over them. Pour boiling water over, using one 
half cup to each egg. Allow the dish to stand at the side of 
the range or in the oven for six or eight minutes. They are 
then ready for serving. 

Stanley Eggs 

2 eggs Salt and pepper to taste 

3 tablespoons bread crumbs 1 tablespoon chopped parsley 
3 tablespoons milk Toast 

2 tablespoons (1 oz.) butter substitute 

This is a very economical edition of scrambled eggs, and I 
find that it is quite as much appreciated. The great thing is 
not to cook the eggs beyond the point when they are a soft, 
creamy mass. 

Beat eggs imtil frothy, add milk, bread crumbs, and seasonings. 
Trim the toast, then butter it ; don't butter first and trim after- 
wards, as to do this wastes tablespoons of butter in a year. 

Melt butter substitute in a small saucepan ; when it is bubbling 
sharoly, pour in egg mixture and stir over gentie heat until it is ft 



BGGS AND OMELETS 59 

fiott, creamy mass. Be very careful that you do not overcook 
it, or it will be too stiff, and it will also be indigestible. Next 
heap it on neat pieces of toast, sprinkle surface with parsley, 
and serve hot. 

Tomato Eggs 

4 tomatoes 2 eggs, beaten 

2 tablespoons (1 02.) butter sub- 1 tablespoon chopped parsley 
sUtute i teaspoon paprika 

i teaspoon salt 

Halve tomatoes and take out pulp from center. Put halves 
on greased baking tin, sprinkle in salt and paprika, and place a 
small piece butter substitute in each. Cover them with greased 
paper and bake in moderate oven fifteen minutes. 

Beat eggs very thoroughly, and mix them with tomato 
pulp, and season highly. Melt remainder of butter substitute 
in a saucepsto, put in egg and pulp, and stir over gentle heat 
until egg sets. Take care it does not come to boiling point. 
Fill halves of tomato with mixture, piled up roughly, and scatter 
over them chopped parsley. Serve at once on a very hot dish. 

Asparagus Omelet 

1 can asparagus tips 2 eggs, beaten 

1 tablespoon (i oz.) butter sub- i teaspoon salt 
stitute } teaspoon pepper 

Turn tips from can and drain well. Put butter substitute 
in a pan over a hot fire. Beat eggs, add seasonings and asparagus 
tips cut in small pieces, mix carefully, and pour into the hot 
pan. As soon as the bottom commences to set, shake the 
pan vigorously, then let the contents settle flat again (for only 
a few moments), roll into an omelet, and serve hot. 

Baked Sweet Omelet 

2 eggs ) cup (1 gill) milk 

2 teaspoons flour i tablespoon butter 

i teaspoon salt Honey or marmalade 

Beat eggs lightly, stir in flour and salt. Heat milk and into 
it put butter. Pour mOk on to egg?, stir quickly, and pour 



60 ECONOHnCAL COOKEBT 

into a small, hot, well^buttered fireproc^ dish, and bake in 
moderate oven fifteen minutes. Spread with honey or mar- 
malade and serve at once. 

Another Method, Peel, core, and stew eight cooking apples, 
rub through a sieve, and add one fourth teaspoon powdered 
ginger or nutmeg. When cold, add two beaten egg9 and three 
tablespoons sugar. Pour into a greased fireproof dish and bake 
until brown. Serve hot. 

Or, beat two eggs with one tablespoon honey, add pinch salt, 
and one tablespoon cream. Grease a hot omelet pan, pour in 
mixture, and cover. When it begins to thicken, spread over 
it a layer of hot apple sauce, fold, turn out on to hot platter, and 
serve sprinkled over with sugar. 

Bread Crumb Omelet 

i cup (1 gill) milk Salt and white pepper to taste 

} cup (3 0Z8.) bread crumbs 2 teaspoons chopped parsley 

2 tablespoons (1 oz.) butter sub- 2 or 3 eggis 
stitute 

Boil milk, put bread crumbs and butter substitute in a bowl, 
and when milk is hot pour it over them. Mix well, add salt 
and pepper, stiffly beaten egg yolks, and stiffly beaten whites 
of eggs. Pour into a small well-greased frying pan, and cook 
until set and lightly browned. Fold over in half and serve 
at once. 

Cheese Omelet 

2 eggs, beaten } teaspoon pepper 

4 tablespoons milk 2 tablespoons (1 oz.) butter sub- 

} teaspoon salt stitute 

1 cup (} lb.) grated cheese 

Beat eggs, add milk and seasonings. Melt butter substitute 
in small frying pan; when hot pour in omelet. Let cook 
slowly and when ready to fold, sprinkle over cheese, fold in half, 
and turn on to a hot platter. Sprinkle with chopped parsley 
and a little more cheese and place in hot oven until cheese is 
melted. 



EGGS AND OMELETS 61 



Com Omelet 



2 egg?, separated i cup (1 gill) milk 

1 can oom i teaspoon salt 

i teaspoon pepper 

Beat up yolks of eggs, add com, milk, and seasonings, pour 
into a hot, well-greased pan, and fry until it browns and forms a 
com cake. Beat up whites of eggs to a stiff froth and spread 
them over half of cake, turning other half over this with pancake 
turner. Serve at once on hot platter. 

Ham Omelet 

2 tablespoons (1 oz.) butter sub- i cup (2 ozs.) ham, chopped 

stitute 2 eggs, beaten 

i teaspoon pepper 

Melt butter substitute in omelet or small frjong pan, add ham 
and stir thoroughly, then add egg? and pepper, and stir gently 
over a clear fire until mixture thickens. Fold over, allow it to 
brown in the oven, and serve on a very hot dish. This is deli- 
cious surrounded with stewed tomatoes. 

Omelet Souffl6 

2 eggs i lemon 

1 tablespoon sugar Jam or stewed fruit 

Put yolks into bowl with sugar, grated lemon rind, or other 
flavoring, and mix well together ; fold in stiffly beaten whites of 
eggs. Pour mixture into greased omelet pan and cook lightly 
until set. When firm to the touch, turn omelet out on to hot 
plate, put spoonfid of jam or stewed fruit in center, and fold 
over. Brown lightly and serve hot. One square of melted 
chocolate with two tablespoons milk added, allowed to cool 
and then added to egg mixture, may be added. Or, prepare 
mixture as above, tum part of it on to flat greased fireproof 
dish, and with a knife make depression in center, put a little 
jam or preserve in center, put remaining mixture in bag with 
tube and force out in stars round the mixture. Sprinkle with 
sugar and bake in hot oven until browned. Serve hot in dish 
it was cooked in. 



62 ECONOMICAL COOKERY 

Plain Omelet 

2 eggi9, beaten 1 tablespoon milk 

1 tablespoon (} oz.) butter sub- } teaspoon salt 

stitute i teaspoon pepper 

Beat up eggs, add milk and seasonings. Dissolve shortening 
in an omelet or small frying pan; when quite hot, but not 
burning, pour in the mixture, stir over a quick fire, shake the 
pan ; when set, roll the omelet into the shape of a cushion, on 
one side of the pan, allow it to take color, then turn it quickly 
on to a hot plate, and serve. Two teaspoons of sugar may be 
used instead of the seasonings. Or, make plain omelet, using 
water instead of milk, and when cooked, pour melted honey over 
top until omelet is covered, fold quickly, and serve hot. 

Picnic Omelet 

2 to 3 large eggs, beaten i teaspoon pepper 

2 tablespoons cream } cup (4 ozs.) butter substitute 

1 teaspoon salt 1 cup (4 ozs.) cooked meat 

i teaspoon mixed mustard 

Beat up eggs until light and frothy, add cream and salt and 
pepper to taste. Melt one half of the butter substitute in small 
omelet pan or frying pan, when hot pour in mixture and cook 
until set. When ready, slide omelet (not fold over) on to a 
plate. Pound meat with remaining butter substitute, adding 
mustard, salt, and pepper to taste. Spread this on cold omelet, 
fold over like a pancake, wrap in waxed paper, and when required, 
cut in thick slices. 

Salmon Omelet 

2 cups (1 pt.) milk ) teaspoon salt 

li cups (6 ozs.) bread cnunbs } teaspoon pepper 

2 eggs, separated 2 tablespoons (1 oz.) butter sub- 

1 can salmon stitute 

Heat milk and bread crumbs to boiling point, then stir in egg 
yolks well beaten, salmon, seasonings, and beaten egg whites. 
Melt butter substitute in a frying pan, pour in mixture, and cook 
until it boilSj then bake in oven twelve to fifteea minutes. 



BOGS AND OMELETS 63 

Serve hot. The bones must be taken out of sahnon, and sahnon 
mashed with a fork before adding it to other ingredients. 

Savory Omelet 

2 eggs, separated } teaspoon salt 

1 teaspoon chopped onion } teaspoon pepper 

2 teaspoons chopped parsley 2 tablespoons (1 oz.) butter sub- 

stitute 

Separate yolks from whites of eggs, add to yolks seasonings, 
onion, and parsley, then add stiffly beaten whites of eggs. Dis- 
solve butter substitute in an omelet or small frying pan, but do 
not brown it ; pour in the mixture, place over a gentle heat, and 
fry a light brown, drawing it on one side of the pan, turn over 
and brown the other side. Turn on a hot dish and serve at 
once. 

Spinach Omelet 

1 cup (i pt.) spinach, cooked 2 eggs, beaten 

1 teaspoon chopped parsley 4 tablespoons (1 oz.) flour 

i teaspoon chopped onion 4 tablespoons milk 

i cup (2 ozB.) dnppings, melted 1 teaspoon salt 

i teaspoon pepper 

Rub spinach through a sieve, add parsley, onion, drippings, 
^gs, flour, milk, and seasonings, and mix well together. Pour 
into a greased fireproof dish and bake in a hot oven ten minutes. 
Serve hot. 



CHAPTER VII 
STOCKS AND SOUPS 



First catch your clams; along the ebbmg edges 
Of saline coves youll find the precious wedges." 



Few people succeed in making good tasty soups, for the reason 
that few understand the making of stock, the foundation of 
soups. To make a good soup it is essential the stock be well 
flavored. 

Stock is a necessity in every well-ordered kitchen, forming, as 
it does, the foundation for soups, sauces, gravies, stews, and 
made-up dishes. It is the liquid into which the juice and flavor 
of various nutritive substances have been drawn by means of 
long, slow cooking. 

An explanation of the principle underl3dng all stock-making, 
together with the rules to be observed, will be found useful by 
every housewife. Since it is a fact that stock partakes more of 
the nature of a stimulant than of a food, the value of good stock 
depends upon the amount of ** extractives " that have been 
obtained during its cooking, these " extractives '' being that part 
of animal food which gives distinctive flavor, acting ejb the stim- 
ulant to appetite and an aid to digestion. 

The principle in stock-making is extraction — to obtain the 
" extractives " contained in meat and bones. 

The aims in stock-making are : 

1. To obtain strong, well-flavored stock. 

2. To make it a good color for the purpose required. 

3. To keep as clear and free from grease as po&sible. 

All rules for making stock are formed to carry out the prin- 
ciple of extraction and the aims set forth above. 

64 



STOCKS AND SOUPS 66 

Stock, and especially stock made with meat of any kind, 
should always be made the day before it is required, as a good 
result can only be obtained by long, slow cooking ; it is only by 
this means, too, that the fat can be successfully removed from 
the top of the stock. 

KINDS OF STOCK 

First Stock. This stock is carefully made from uncooked 
bones and meat, suitably and nicely flavored, and is used for 
consomm^, and all high-class soups. 

Second Stock. This is made from the meat and bones from 
which the first stock has been strained, then recooked with fresh 
water and vegetables. It is used for soups that do not depend 
on the stock for their principal flavoring. 

Household Stock. This stock is made from scraps of cooked 
or uncooked meat and bones, vegetables, and such other ma- 
terials as the careful cook saves for the stock pot. It is used for 
everyday soups, and for sauces, or made-up dishes. 

Vegetable Stock. This stock is made from vegetables alone, 
either fresh or dried, or a mixture of the two. It is much used 
in vegetarian and Lenten cookery. 

Fish Stock. This stock is made from fish or fish trinmiing?, 
with vegetables added to give flavor. The addition of a few 
pieces of shellfish is an improvement. The stock is used for 
fish soup or sauces. 

Game Stock. This is made from any kind of game bones and 
trimmingp, with vegetables added to give flavor. It is used for 
game soups or sauces served with reheated dishes made with 
cold game. 

Brown Stock. This is made principally from beef bones and 
beef, with sometimes a little veal or some poultry or game bones 
added, and usually flavored with vegetables. 

White Stock. This is made principally from white meat, 
such as mutton, poultry, rabbit, or veal, with sometimes a 
calf's foot added, and usually flavored with vegetables and 
herbs. 

Bone Stock is made from bones alone, with vegetables added 
to give flavor. 



66 ECONOMICAL COOKERlt 

Glaze is stock which is so much reduced in quantity that when 
cold it forms almost a solid substance. 

Cold water should be used for making stocks, as it extracts the 
juices better. Allow one quart to every poimd of bones, meat, 
or vegetables. Do not add anjrthing greasy, starchy, or highly 
colored. After cooking, strain into clean basins and allow to 
cool before setting away. When cold, remove all fat from the 
surface ; this crust of fat, if allowed to remain over the top, is 
apt to turn it sour, as it excludes the air. 

SOUPS 

The principle underlying the making of soups, as in the case of 
stock, is extraction. Soups depend for their success on the 
flavors and goodness extracted from the materials used in their 
manufacture, and this is especially the case when water has to be 
used instead of good stock. The value of soup is chiefly as a 
stimulator of appetite, except in cases where the food value has 
been increased, as in lentil soup. A well-flavored soup, made 
from stock containing " extractives " and gelatine from bones and 
meat respectively, especially if it is served hot, has the effect of 
inducing an increased flow of the gastric juices, and therefore it 
aids in the digestion of the meal that follows. For this reason 
soups are served at the beginning of a meal, and are essentially 
stimulative rather than satisfiers of appetite. 

The aims in soup-making are: 

1. To produce a well-flavored soup. 

2. To keep the soup a good color. 

3. To make it clear, or of the right consistency, according 

to the character of the soup. 

4. To keep it free from grease. 

The rules for making soup vary with the character of the soup 
to be made, and before dealing with these rules, it is necessary to 
know something of the various classes of soup. These, though 
so numerous, can, roughly speaking, be divided into two great 
classes, clear and thick. 

Clear. Under the heading of clear soups are included con- 
somme, or ** cleared " soups, broths, and bouillons. 



STOCKS AND SOUPS 67 

Thick. This class includes thick soups, purees, bisques, 
cream soups, cosmopolitan, and fruit soups. 

Consommes are made from carefully prepared first stock, 
cleared with lean beef and the whites and shells of eggs ; a char- 
acteristic flavoring or garnish is added at the end to give the 
soup its distinguishing name, such as Consomm6 Julienne (with 
shreds of vegetables). 

Broths are made from first stock, seasoned to taste, and with 
the addition of pearl barley or rice, and vegetables. They may 
be prepared from lean mutton, beef, chicken, rabbit, or veal. 

Bouillon is a broth made from beef. It is simply unclarified 
stock, to which are added various grains such as rice, barley, 
sago, etc., and vegetables either cooked in the broth or separately, 
and served in small pieces. This depends for its food value 
principally on the stock, which must be strong and well flavored. 
Frequently there is served as another course the meat from which 
the broth has been prepared. 

Thick Soup is stock which is thickened by some foreign sub- 
stance such as cornstarch, arrowroot, bread, cereals, eggs, etc. 
This stock must be of good quality, for the thickening substance 
cannot be used in sufficient quantity to increase perceptibly the 
food value. 

Purees are thick soups, but the thickening is due to the sub- 
stance of which the pur^ is composed, which is sieved and 
incorporated with the soup. A certain amount of starch, such 
as flour or cornstarch, or other binding material, ia needed, not 
to thicken but to bind the liquid and solid parts of the soup 
together and prevent the heavy substance from separating or 
settling at the bottom. Frequently the material of which the 
pur6e is composed is of such a nature as not to require the 
addition of meat, such as lentils, beans, peas, etc.; others are 
improved by being made of second stock, while others require 
as good stock as can be made, there being little or no nutriment 
in the substance itself. 

Bisques are cream soups made with shellfish, such as oysters, 
lobsters, shrimps, prawns, clams, etc. They are made as for 
cream soups, and some small pieces of the fish use4 in mckking arQ 
added as a garnish, 



68 ECONOMICAL COOKERY 

Cream Soups partake of the nature of pur^, but their dis- 
tinguiahing feature is that the binding agent is cream and yolks 
of eggs, instead of flour or cornstarch. 

The same rules as for pur6es apply until after sieving, and 
then the cream and yolks of eggs must be added carefully, and 
the soup must on no accoimt be allowed to boil during reheating, 
or the albumen in the eggs will harden or coagulate, causing 
curdling. 

Cosmopolitan Soups are soups which are peculiar to different 
coimtries, such as Scotch Broth, 011a Podrida, and Pot-au-feu. 
They are made according to the rules for the kind of soup upon 
which they are based. 

Fruit Soups are specially recommended for use in sunmier, 
when they will be found refreshing and cooling. They can be 
made with either fresh or dried fruit, and the method for all is 
very similar. The fruit is stewed until soft and reduced to a 
pulp with water and sugar, and then strained or sieved. A little 
spice, such as nutmeg, ginger, or cinnamon, or the grated rind of 
a lemon or orange, is generally added to give flavor. Some 
fruit soups require a little thickening to be added. Red or 
white wine may also be used for flavoring. These soups are 
served either hot or cold with rusks, zwieback, toast, crackers, 
puffed rice or wheat, etc., according to fancy. 

Apricot Soup 

i pound dried apricots } teaspoon powdered nutmeg 

6 cups (2 qts.) cold water 4 tablespoons (2 ozs.) sugar 

1 orange 3 tablespoons (} oz.) cornstarch 

Rusks or fried bread 

Wash apricots and soak them overnight in one half of the 
water. Next day put them into a saucepan with their water, 
grated rind of orange, and nutmeg, and stew until tender. Then 
rub as much as possible through a fine sieve, add sugar, remainder 
of water and strained orange juice. Return this piu*6e to a clean 
saucepan and bring it to boiling point. Add cornstarch mois- 
tened with a little cold water and cook five minutes, stirring all 
the time. If too thick add more water or fruit iuice. Serve 



STOCKS AND SOT7PS 69 

either hot or cold, and hand separately rusks or fried and sweet- 
ened croutons of bread. 

A few stewed and stoned prunes may be added to the soup, 
or a few chopped nut meats. If liked, some whipped cream may 
be piled on the top. 

This recipe is sufficient for one and one half quarts. 

Bean Pur6e with Grated Cheese 

1 cup (} pt.) dried beans 1 teaspoon salt 

1 large onion, sliced i teaspoon pepper 

6 cups (3 pts.) water 1 teaspoon meat extract 

1 cup (i pt.) milk Grated cheese 

Wash beans and soak them overnight in plenty of cold water. 
Drain beans and put them into a soup pot with onion and water. 
Bring to the boil, and cook slowly until beans are soft. Rub 
through a sieve, add milk, return this pur6e to the pan, add 
seasonings, and bofl up. Serve grated cheese with this soup. 

Beef Soup with Savory Dumplings 

1 bone, chopped in six pieces 1 carrot, sliced 

i pound beef, cut small 1 turnip, sliced 

4 potatoes, sliced 3 onions, sliced 

12 cups (3 qts.) water 1 beet, sliced 

Put bone, meat, and water into soup pot, bring to the boO, then 
let it simmer one hour, add vegetables, salt and pepper to taste. 
Then cook two hours, remove bones, add dumplings, and suffi- 
cient hot water to make soup up to two quarts. Serve hot. 

Dumplings 

2 cups (} lb.) flour 1 cup (4 ozs.) suet, chopped 

2 teaspoons baking powder } teaspoon salt 

1 teai^)oon chopped parsley 1 teaspoon powdered herbs 

Sift flour, baking powder, and salt into a bowl, add parsley 
and seasoning, rub in suet, and add sufficient water to make into 
8ti£f paste. Roll into balls, and steam two and one half hours. 
Serve in soup. 



70 ECONOMICAL COOEERT 

Black Bean Soup 

4 cups (1 qt.) black beans 2 bay leaves 

1 piece beef shank 7 doves 

1 veal knuckle 1 teaspoon mustard 

1 can tomatoes 2 teaspoons salt 

2 onions, sliced i teaspoon pepper 
2 carrots, sliced } teaspoon paprika 

1 unpeeled potato, sliced Hard-cooked eggs 

2 stalks celery, sliced Lemon 

Wash beans, cover with plenty of cold water and soak over- 
night. Next morning add to water and beans the shank and 
veal which have been seared in a pan, vegetables, bay leaves, and 
seasonings ; now add enough more water to cover soup meat and 
cook slowly eight hours. Pour soup through colander, mashing 
through beans. 

Reheat next day and to each plate of soup add one half hard- 
cooked egg, chopped fine, and two thin slices of lemon. 

Bone Stock 

4 pounds bones 3 stalks celery 

12 cups (6 pts.) water 1 onion 

12 white peppercorns 1 bunch herbs 

1 carrot 1 teaspoon salt 

1 turnip 1 blade mace 

1 bay leaf 

Wash bones well, removing all fat and marrow. Place them 
in a large saucepan with salt and water, bring to the boil, remove 
scum and cook three hours. Add vegetables cut into neat 
pieces and herbs tied in cheesecloth bag. Sinmier two hours. 
Strain into a bowl. Remove fat from top when cold, and use. 

To Make Weak Stock from Bones. If the bones are large, chop 
them as small as possible ; and to every pound of bones and odd 
pieces allow a generous quart of liquor in which vegetables have 
been boiled, making up with plain water if not sufficient — or, of 
course, all water may be used. A whole onion stuck with three 
cloves may be added, a teaspoon of salt, and a teaspoon of flour 
sprinkled- over the top. Simmer for three or four hours, remov- 
ing, as it rises, the scum which the flour will help to bring up. 



STOCKS AND SOUPS 71 

By attending to this the stock will be much clearer than it 
would otherwise be. When done, strain; and if not used the 
next day boil up again, and every day until required, or it will 
turn sour. 

Cabbage Sottp 

1 firm cabbage 1 teaspoon salt 

4 tablespoons (2 ozs.) butter substitute i teaspoon pepper 
8 cups (2 qts.) water i teaspoon celery salt 

2 cups (1 pt.) milk Small squares toasted bread 

Wash cabbage, slice it into soup pot, add butter substitute, 
cover and cook ten minutes over a gentle heat, add water, 
simmer one hour, then add milk and seasoning?, bring to boiling 
point ; serve hot with toasted bread. 

Canned Com Soup 

1 can com 2 tablespoons (} 02.) flour 

2 cups (1 pt.) cold water 1} teaspoons salt 

2 cups (1 pt.) scalded milk i teaspoon celery salt 

1 tablespoon chopped onion ) teaspoon white pepper 

2 tablespoons (1 oz.) butter 1 cup (i pt.) whipped cream 

Cook com in water thirty minutes, add milk. Cook onion in 
butter for a few minutes, but do not allow it to brown ; stir in 
flour, then add seasoning? and com mixture, cook eight minutes, 
add cream, and serve hot. 

Clear Soup with Rice 

Bones 6 white peppercorns 

4 tablespoons (2 ozs.) drippings 3 slices bacon 

8 cups (2 qts.) water 2 carrots 

1 onion 1 turnip 

3 cloves 1 leek 

1 tablespoon salt 1 clove garlic 

Rice 

Take any bones that you may happen to have, whether they 
be poultry, pork, veal, mutton, or beef; carefully remove aU 
meat, and put this on one side for croquettes or hash, being care- 
ful to get rid of all gristle or skin which is attached to bones. Now 
put bones broken up small, say three pounds of them, into a soup 
pot with drippings, and fry a few minutes ; add water, onion stuck 



72 BCONOinCAL COOKERY 

with cloves, salt, peppercorns, and bacon, and cook untfl liquid 
is reduced to half. Skim carefully, add vegetables and garlic 
cut in small piece?, simmer thirty minutes ; now pass through 
sieve, return to saucepan, bring it to boiling point, add one 
tablespoon of well-washed rice for each cup of liquid ; bring to 
boiling point, then cover, and leave at side of fire sixty minutes. 
Serve hot. 

Com Chowder 

3 slices fat pork 4 cups (1 qt.) milk, scalded 

2 onions, slioed 1 cup (i pt.) tomato purge 

2 cups (1 pt.) diced potatoes 1 teaspoon salt 

1 can com } teaspoon pepper 

Cut pork in small pieces and fry in saucepan imtil quite brown. 
Add onions and fry but do not brown, stir in potatoes, cover with 
water and let potatoes cook until ahnost done. Then add com, 
milk, tomato pur6e, and seasonings. Serve hot. The tomato 
pur^e is obtained by rubbing fresh or canned tomatoes through 
a sieve. 

Cream of Leek Soup 

6 large leeks 2 cups (1 pt.) milk or cream 

2 tablespoons (1 oz.) drippings i teaspoon pepper 
1 teaspoon salt } teaspoon paprika 

8 cups (2 qts.) water 2 tablespoons (1 oz.) butter 

Slices thin brown toast 

Wash and skin leeks, split lengthwise and cut in pieces one 
inch long. Melt drippings, add leeks and fry, stirring constantly 
that they do not brown, then add salt and water. Simmer three 
fourths of an hour or imtil liquor has been reduced to one quart, 
add milk, seasoning?, and butter. Have toast in hot tureen and 
pour soup over this. 

Emergency Soup 

6 tablespoons (3 ozs.) lard or margarine 1 teaspoon salt 

3 tablespoons (} oz.) flour } teaspoon pepper 

3 cups iH pts.) boiling water Thin slices bread 

4 teaspoons beef esctract Melted butter 
1 tablespoon cream Grated cheese 

Red pepper 



STOCKS AND SOUPS 73 

Brown fat in saucepan, add flour and brown that also. Now 
add water mixed with beef extract, cream, and seasoning. Serve 
hot with bread slices prepared as follows : Remove crusts and 
cut bread in squares, brush them on each side with melted butter, 
sprinkle over with cheese seasoned with red pepper^ and brown 
in oven. 

Fish Chowder 

5 pounds cod or haddock 6 potatoes, parboiled 

2 onions, sliced 1 tablespoon savory herbs 

4 tablespoons (2 ozs.) butter or lard 1 teaspoon salt 
I pound fat pickled pork, diced i teaqx)on pepper 

4 cups (1 qt.) milk 

Skin and bone fish. Cut fish into pieces about two inches 
square and put it aside in a cool place. Put bones and trim- 
mings into a saucepan, cover with cold water and allow to boil. 
Fry onions in two tablespoons of butter or lard with pork. 
When onions are cooked to golden brown, strain into a saucepan. 
Slice potatoes one eighth of an inch thick, place layer on top of 
onions, lay pieces of fish upon these with another layer of po- 
tatoes on top ; strain liquor in which bones were boiled and add 
to contents of pan with seasonings, remainder of butter and 
milk, and let aU simmer until cooked. Serve hot. 

FishSonp 

i cup (2 oas.) drippings 4 tablespoons (1 os.) cornstarch 

1 filleted fish 1 teaspoon salt 

4 cups (1 qt.) fish stock i teaspoon pepper 

2 onions, sliced } teaspoon paprika 

Cro(ltons toasted bread 

Melt drippings in a saucepan, put in onions, and fry 
until browned. Sprinkle in cornstarch, mix well, then add 
stock by degrees, bring to the boil, add seasonings, and cook 
twenty minutes. Then strain and return to clean saucepan, 
add fish cut in small pieces and allow to cook fifty minutes. 
Put bread croAtons in soup tureen and pour boiling soup 
over them. 



74 ECONOMICAL COOKERY 

Giblet Soup 

2 sets giblets 1 large carrot, slioed 

4 tablespoons (2 ozs.) butter or lard 1 turnip, slioed 

1 bay leaf 4 sprigs parsley 

1 blade mace i cup (2 ozs.) flour 

1 bunch herbs 8 cups (2 qts.) stock or water 

i small cabbage, sliced 1 teaspoon pepper 

1 large onion, sliced 2 teaspoons salt 

i lemon 

Clean and trim giblets thoroughly, drop them into boiling 
water one minute, lift out into cold water to blanch them ; divide 
them into inch pieces. Put lard into saucepan with vegetables, 
bay leaf, mace, herbs, and fry five minutes ; add flour, stock, and 
giblets, bring to the boil and skim, simmer two hours, or imtil 
giblets are tender ; pour through sieve, lift out giblets and rub 
vegetables through sieve, put back into pan with giblets and 
seasonings, reheat, and serve. 

Good Brown Stock 

4 pounds shin of beef Any poultry or game bones 

10 cups (2} qts.) water 1 carrot 

3 cloves 2 onions, browned 

2 bay leaves 1 bunch herbs 

1 teaspoon peppercorns 2 stalks celery 

Cut meat into small squares, break up bones and remove 
marrow; cover with water and bring g^tly to the boil; skim 
well, then add all the other ingredients and simmer four hours ; 
pour through a fine sieve, and when cold remove fat. The 
bones, etc., may be boiled again for inexpensive soups. 

To make an everyday sjbock, cut up some meat or meat trim- 
mings and chop up bones ; put them into a large saucepan and 
fill up with cold water, allowing four cups to each pound of meat 
and bones ; add a little salt, and bring to boiling point slowly. 
Add a few stock vegetables, such as onion, turnip, carrot, celery 
and parsley, all of which must be thoroughly cleaned. Simmer 
for three or four hours, then strain into a basin, and be sure that 
every particle of grease is removed. Almost any kind of meat, 
cooked or uncooked, bones, and gravy from meat may be used 
for stock-making^ so long as they are fresh and sweet. 



STOCKS AND SOUPS 75 

Good White Stock 

4 pounds shin of veal An old fowl or a rabbit 

10 cups (2} qts.) water 3 stalks celery 

Any poultry bones 1 onion, sliced 

1 blade mace 

Cut meat into small pieceSy and break up bones, put them into 
soup pot with cold water and bring gently to the boil; skim 
thoroughly, add other ingredients, and simmer four hours; 
pour throu^ a fine sieve, and when cold remove the fat. The 
bones may be boiled down again. 

A very economical white stock may be made by using bones 
only in making the stock, and no meat ; use a ham bone, if pos- 
sible, with the other bones as this gives a nice flavor. 

To Remove Fat from Stock. Have in readiness two kitchen 
spoons, a bowl of boiling water, a clean cloth, and a small dish 
into which to put the fat. Heat the spoons in the boiling water, 
and use first one and then the other to skim off the grease. The 
spoons, being hot, melt the fat, and make it much more easily 
removed. When as much as possible has been taken off with 
the spoons, dip the end of the cloth into boiling water and wipe 
the stock over with this untO free from grease. If the stock has 
not jellied, pieces of tissue or any absorbent paper must be 
passed over the sinrface instead of the doth. 

If the fat is good it should be clarified and used for drippings. 

Lenta Sottp 

2 oups (1 pt.) lentils 2 stalks celery 

1 carrot 4 tablespoons (2 ozs.) butter substitute 

3 potatoes 1 teaspoon salt 

1 small turnip | teaspoon pepper 

2 onions 10 cups (2i qts.) water 

Wash lentils in several waters. Wash and prepare vegetables, 
and cut them into small pieces. Melt butter substitute in a 
soup pot and when hot, put in onions and fry them a nice bzown. 
Add lentils and remainder of vegetables, pour in water, and 
sinmier two and one half hours, stirring from time to time. 
When lentils are quite soft, rub soup through a colander, adding 



76 BCONOinCAL COOKERY 

a little boiling water if necessary. Wash out soup pot, pour 
soup back into it/ then seajson to taste and heat well before 
serving. 

Mutton Broth 

2 pounds neck of mutton 1 oanot 

8 cups (2 qts.) water 1 turnip 

1 tablespoon barley 1 tablespoon chopped parsley 

2 leeks 1 teaspoon salt 

i teaspoon pepper 

Wipe meaty cut it in small pieces and remove all superfluous 
fat. Prepare vegetables and cut them into small pieces. Put 
bones, meat, and water into a saucepan, put on lid, and bring 
slowly to the boil, skim well, add washed barley, vegetables and 
simmer three h^urs. Remove bones, add parsley, and season- 
ing^. Serve hot. 

If preferred, the meat may be kept whole, and served as a 
separate course, with parsley sauce poured over it. 

Onion Soup 

4 Spanish onions, chopped 1 teaapoon sugar 

2 red peppers, choppcKl 8 cups (2 qts.) stock or water 

4 tablespoons (2 ozs.) butter or 1 teaspoon salt 
drippings } teaspoon pepper 

Thin toast slices 

Fry onions and pepper in butter or drippings three minutes, 
add sugar, and when onions are slightly browned pour in stock 
or water, and add seasonings. Cook slowly until the pieces of 
onion are very tender and pour into a tureen over toast. Serve 
hot. 

Oyster Soup 

2 cups (1 pt.) oysters i teaspoon salt 

2 cups (1 pt.) milk i teaspoon paprika 

1 onion, chopped 1 tablespoon (i oz.) butter 

1 green pepper, chopped i cup (1 gill) hot water 

Crackers 

Cook oysters in their liquor and water until edges crinkle, then 
add butter and remove from fire. Boil milk, add onion, green 



STOCKS AND SOUPS 77 

pepper and seasonings, and when onion and pepper are soft pour 
over oysters. Serve hot with crackers. 

Parsnip Soup 

1} pounds parsnips i cup (1 gill) milk 

4 cups (1 qt.) stock or water 1 teaspoon salt 

i cup (i lb.) drippings i tes^spoon pepper 

1 tablespoon flour 1 teaspoon chopped parsley 

Cut parsnips into thin slices, and cook in drippings fifteen 
minutes, put cover on pan. Add stock and seasoningiB, bring to 
the boil, then simmer one and one half hours. Rub through a 
sieve, reheat, add flour mixed with milk, and parsley ; cook five 
minutes, and serve with tiny squares of fried bread. 

Pea Soup 

1 cup a lb.) dried peas 1 turnip 

8 cups (2 qts.) water 1 bimch herbs 

1 tablespoon (} oz.) drippings 1 cup (i pt.) milk 

1 onion 1 teaspoon salt 

1 carrot i teaspoon pepper 

Cubes toast 

Wash peas and then pour over the water and let them soak 
overnight. Next day strain off liquid and reserve it for the soup. 
Prepare vegetables and cut them in thin slices. Melt drippings 
in a saucepan, add peas and vegetables, and stir over fire until 
fat is absorbed. Add reserved liquid and herbs and allow to 
simmer slowly three hours. Stir soup occasionally to prevent 
sticking, then rub through a sieve. Rinse out saucepan and 
return soup to it to reheat ; add milk, seasonings, bring to the 
boil and simmer five minutes. Serve with toast cubes. 

A ham bone may be boiled in the soup to give it flavor. 

Potato Soup 

2 pounds potatoes, cut in slices 1 teaspoon salt 

2 onions, cut in slices i teaspoon pepper 

i cup (2 ozs.) drippings 1 cup (} pt.) ndlk 

8 cups (2 qts.) water 1 tablespoon sago or tapioca 



78 ECONOMICAL COOKERY 

Put potatoes and onions into saucepan, add drippings and 
heat over the fire ten minutes, shake pan occasionally so that 
they will not stick, add water and cook until vegetables are 
tender, then rub through a sieve, put back into saucepan with 
seasonings, milk, and sago, boil twenty minutes and serve. 

Rice Soup 

i cup (6 ozB.) rice (impolished) 8 cups (2 qts.) vegetable stock or 

3 tablespoons (li ozs.) butter sub- skunmed milk 

stitute 1 teaspoon salt 

2 large onions, sliced i teaspoon pepper 

i teaspoon celery salt 

Wash and drain rice. Melt fat, add onions, and fry them until 
soft. Pour in stock and bring it to the boil. Now sprinkle in 
rice and let cook gently until quite soft. Season and serve hot. 

Many persons like two tablespoons of grated stale cheese 
added to this soup just before serving, but this is a matter of 
taste. 

St. Germain Soup 

1 can peas 1 leek, diced 

7 cups (3} pts.) water 1 bay leaf 

1 ham bone 1 tablespoon chopped parsley 

2 carrots, diced 1 teaspoon salt 

1 onion, sliced } teaspoon pepper 

Put into a saucepan peas, water, bone, vegetables, bay leaf, 
parsley, and seasonings, and allow to simmer three hours, stirring 
occasionally. Strain and rub vegetables through a sieve. Re- 
tiun to saucepan and let it boil up, adding to it some whole peas 
and one tablespoon of chopped mint. Serve hot. 

The chopped mint may be omitted as some people may not 
care for the flavor. 

Sottp Maigre 

3 leeks 2 tablespoons (1 oz.) butter substitute 

4 potatoes i teaspoon salt 

2 stalks celery } teaspoon pepper 

4 cups (1 qt.) water 2 cups (1 pt.) milk 

1 tablespoon sago or tapioca 



STOCKS AND SOUPS 79 

Prepare vegetables and let them lie in water one hour. Cut 
them into small pieces, using only the white of leeks. Put into 
a clean saucepan ; add water, butter substitute, and seasonings. 
Bring to the boil without the lid, then stir and skim. Cover 
with lid, and cook untU vegetables are soft enough to press 
through a sieve. Return to pan with milk, and stir in gradually 
tapioca, and continue stirring until tapioca is clear. Boil quickly 
ten minutes. Serve very hot. A little cream or an egg may be 
added before serving. A little chopped parsley may be added if 
liked. 

Tomato Soup 

4 cups (1 qt.) canned tomatoes | teaspoon pepper 

1 Spanish onion, sliced i teaspoon powdered nutmeg 
4 cups (1 qt.) stock or water 1 teaspoon sugar 

2 teaspoons salt } cup (2 o2s.) tapioca or sago 

4 tablespoons (2 ozs.) butter substitute 

Into soup pot put tomatoes, onion, water, seasonings, and 
sugar, cook twenty minutes, add tapioca and butter, and sinuner 
forty minutes, strain and serve. 

Vegetable Soup 

1 carrot, shredded 1 bay leaf 

1 turnip, shredded 4 tablespoons (1 oz.) flour 

1 onion, shredded 2 teaspoons salt 

1 stalk celery, shredded i teaepoon pepper 

1 lettuce, shredded 3 cups (1} pts.) stock 

1 small cucumber, shredded 1 cup (i pt.) milk 

4 tablespoons (2 ozs.) butter substitute Croiitons of fried bread 

Prepare vegetables, and cut fine into lengths about one inch, 
putting them in water as done to keep them a good color. Melt 
butter substitute, add drained vegetables, bay leaf, and season- 
ings. Cook slowly ten or fifteen minutes with lid on, shaking and 
stirring frequently. Bring stock to boiling point and add it to 
other ingredients; now add flour dissolved in milk. Boil six 
minutes and serve hot with crofttons of fried bread. 

Vegetable stock is made by boiling such vegetables as onions, 
carrots, turnip, celery, and beans in water with seasonings, and 
herbs. It is then dndned and used instead of plain water to^ 
soups. 



80 ECONOMICAL COOKERY 

Strawbeny Soup 

1 box strawberries } tablespoon oomstarch 

1 cup (i lb.) sugar } lemon 

6 cups (3 pts.) water Rusks, or toast, or puffed lioe 

Wash and pick strawberries. Take one cup of the smaller 
ones and sprinkle a little of the sugar over them and set aside in 
a cool place. Now mash remaining strawberries with a silver 
spoon, and add strained juice of lemon. Mix sugar with corn- 
starch, dissolve in water and bring to boiling point, pour it over 
mashed fruit, stand forty minutes, and then strain through a 
sieve. Put whole strawberries into a soup tureen, pour soup 
over them and serve cold. Hand rusks, toast or puffed rice 
separately. Raspberry or cherry soup can be made in the same 
way. 



E Casverole. J'age G 



r Soui'. I'age .10. 



CHAPTER Vm 
FISH 



Tis very fresh and sweet, sir, 
The fish was taken but this nightJ 



Fish may be divided into three classes — white, oily, and sheU 
fish. The first two, " white " and " oily ", may be served in 
the place of meat for breakfast or Imicheon, and in a dinner of 
several courses follow the soup. 

" White " fish is not so nourishing as the " oily ", as in the 
former class nearly all the oil is contained in the liver, but fish 
belonging to this class are more easily digested, and therefore 
more suitable for invalids. Oily fish, as salmon, mackerel, 
etc., are very nourishing but not suitable for people with weak 
digestions. All fish must be perfectly fresh, as the flesh de- 
composes very rapidly, giving rise to danger of poisoning and 
even death. When choosing fish see that the eyes are bright 
and prominent, the gills red, the flesh firm, and the smell good. 
If the fish is decomposing, the bones on being removed leave a 
red mark, and the flesh on the underside, if strongly pressed 
between the thumb and finger, will easily crush, leaving only 
the skin in the fingers. Bloodshot eyes show the fish is either 
stale or out of condition. Fish may be boiled, baked, steamed, 
stewed, fried, grilled, or planked. Almost the same rules apply 
to the cooking of fish as to that of meat, namely : To keep in 
the juices, to develop the flavor, and to make the dish pleasing 
to the eye and appetite. 

Fish is most useful in the dietary of the convalescent, or those 
leading sedentary lives, who suffer from indigestion. 

81 



82 ECONOMICAL COOKEBY 

Baked Herrings 

4 herrings 1 teaspoon onion Juice 

4 tablespoons (2 ozs.) bread crumbs 1 teai^xwn salt 

2 tablespoons (1 oz.) drippings } teaspoon pepper 

1 tablespoon chopped parsley 1 tablespoon flour 

2 tablespoons milk 

Cut herrings down back, remove bones, cut off heads, wash 
them in salt and water, dry and dip each fish in flour. Grease 
baking tin, lay in two of the fish, skin downwards. Mix bread 
crumbs, drippings, parsley, seasonings, and milk together and 
spread this mixture over herrings. Lay other herrings on with 
skin uppermost. Cover with a greased paper and bake in 
moderate oven thirty minutes. 

Baked Salmon 

1 pound cooked or canned salmon } cup (1 gill) milk 

2 tablespoons mashed potatoes } teaspoon salt 

2 tablespoons bread crumbs \ tea£^)Oon pepper 

2 tablespoons (1 oz.) butter, melted } teaspoon paprika 

2 eggs, beaten 1 teaspoon lemon juice 

Pick over salmon, remove bones and skin. Chop salmon, add 
potatoes, bread crumbs, butter, eggs, milk, and seasonings. Mix 
well and turn into greased baking dish, sprinkle with bread 
crumbs, and dot with a few small pieces of butter. Bake in 
moderate oven three fourths of an hour, or until set. 

Boiled Fish with Sauce 

2\ pounds codfish 8 gingersnaps 

4 medium-sized onions, sliced' 12 whole allspice 

1 lemon 1 tablespoon (} oz.) butter 

Prepare fish and boil in boiling salted water until it is tender, 
using only enough water to cover. Take out fish and lay on 
platter. Now add onions to water and cook until tender, add 
strained lemon juice, gingersnaps grated, allspice, and butter. 
Let this boil six minutes, then lay in fish and let heat thoroughly. 
Serve on hot dish. 



FISH 83 



Canned Salmon and Tomatoes 

1 can tomatoes i teaspoon pepper 

1 onion, sliced fine 1 tablespoon (i os.) butter 

1 tablespoon chopped parsley 1 tablespoon flour 

1 teaspoon salt 1 tablespoon () oz.) sugar 

1 can salmon 

Pour tomatoes into a pan, add onion and parsley, cook until 
onion is tender. Rub through a sieve, return to pan, add 
seasonings, butter, flour mixed with three tablespoons of cold 
water ; add sugar and cook until mixture thickens. Pour over 
salmon which has been heated and flaked. Serve hot. 



Curried Cod 

1} pounds ood 4 tablespoons (2 ozs.) drippings 

1 onion 1 tablespoon curry powder 

1 cup (} pt.) gravy or stock 1 teaspoon sugar 

1 tablespoon lemon juice 3 tablespoons chopped cocoanut 

1 teaspoon salt Rice, boiled 

Fry fish in one tablespoon of the drippings. Put remaining 
drippings in a saucepan, brown in it the onion, add stock, lemon 
juice, salt, curry powder, cocoanut, and sugar, cook twenty 
minutes, then add the fish divided into flakes, and cook ten 
minutes. Serve with rice. 



Deviled 03r8ter8 

1 tablespoon (} os.) butter 1 egg, beaten 

2 tablespoons (i oz.) flour } teaspoon powdered nutmeg 

1 cup (i pt.) hot milk 2 teaspoons chopped parsley 

2 cups (1 pt.) oysters 1 teaspoon salt 

2 tablespoons bread crumbs i tea^xx>n pepper 

} teaspoon paprika 

Blend butter and flour in saucepan over the fire, add milk and 
cook until smooth, add ojrsters drained, and bread crumbs. 
Ck)ok five minutes, take from fire, add egg, and seasonings. Pour 
into greased baking dish, sprinkle with crumbs, and bake in 
hot oven six minutes. Serve hot. 



84 ECONOMICAL COOKEBT 

Filleted Fish Baked in Batter 

1 flounder 1 tablespoon chopped parsley 

1 teaspoon salt 2 tablespoons (1 oz.) butter substitute 

i teaspoon pepper melted 

Wash flounder and cut off fins. Lay it on a board with tail 
end nearest you and dark side uppermost. Make a cut across 
skin just above tail, slip a knife under it and raise skin slightly 
from flesh. Then with right thumb loosen skin all the way up 
right side, then loosen up other side in same way, this time using 
left thumb. Then hold tail of fish firmly down on board ; take 
hold of loosened skin with a cloth, and pull it off quickly, drawing 
it towards head. The white skin may be removed in the same 
way, but this is frequently left on. 

To FiUet Flounder. Cut down center of back and gently raise 
fillets, pressing knife close to bone. Two fillets are taken from 
each side. It wiU be found easier to raise first fillet from left- 
hand side of fish, working from head towards tail; then turn 
fish roimd, and raise second fillet, working from tail towards 
head. Turn fish right over, and do other side in the same 
manner. 

Cut fillets into neat pieces, and put them into greased fireproof 
dish, sprinkle over seasonings and melted butter substitute, pour 
over batter, made as below, and bake in moderate oven forty 
minutes. Serve hot. 

Batter 

1 cup (} lb.) flour 1 cup (} pt.) milk 

2 eggs 1 teaspoon lemon juice 

Sift flour into bowl, break one egg into it, add one half of 
milk by degrees, then add other egg and remaining milk. Beat 
well until it is perfectly smooth and full of air bubbles. Allow 
to stand thirty minutes, add lemon juice, and use. 

Allowing a batter to stand thirty minutes makes starch grains 
swell, so that they burst more rapidly when placed in hot oven, 
and are thus more thoroughly cooked. Also the standing allows 
the air that is entangled during the process of beating to cool 



FISH 85 

down to a lower temperature, so that when brought in contact 
with heat its capacity for expansion is greater, thus making 
the batter lighter. 

Fishcakes 

2 cups (1 pt.) cooked fresh 1 tablespoon (i 02.) butter sub- 

or salt codfish stitute 

2 cups (1 pt.) hot mashed po- } teaspoon pepper 

tatoes Salt to taste 

4 tablespoons hot milk 1 egg, beaten 

Chop fish, add potatoes, butter, seasonings, and hot milk; 
beat well and when cool, shape into round cakes. Brush over 
with egg, toss in bread crumbs or com meal, and fry in plenty of 
smoking hot fat until nicely browned. Drain and serve hot. 
To cook salt codfish, soak fish three hours, drain, cover with 
cold water, bring to the boil, then simmer until fish is tender. 
Drain and chop fine. 

Another Method. To two cups of cooked fish, add one cup 
very thick white sauce, salt, pepper, and paprika to taste, one 
teaspoon each chopped parsley and lemon juice, and allow to 
cool. Shape into neat cakes, balls, or croquettes, brush over 
with milk or beaten egg, toss in bread crumbs or com meal, or 
crushed vermicelli, and fry in smoking hot fat. Drain and serve 
hot. Garnish with parsley. 

Fish Kromeskies 

} pound chopped cooked fish } teaspoon pepper 

2 tablespoons (1 oz.) drippings 2 teaspoons chopped parsley 

4 tablespoons (1 oz.) flour 1 teaspoon lemon juice 

\ cup (i gUl) milk 1 egg 

1 teaspoon salt Thin slices bacon 

Frying batter 

Blend drippings and flour in a saucepan, add milk, and bring 
to the boil, then add seasonings, parsley, lemon juice, egg, and 
fish, mix well, and turn out on a plate to cool. When firm, divide 
the mixture into ten pieces, and form into neat rounds, using a 
little flour to prevent mixture sticking to hands. Wrap each 
round in slice of bacon, dip each into frying batter, coating them 
well, lift out and drop into smoking hot fat. Fry until brown, 
and drain on paper. Serve hot garnished with parsley. 



86 ECONOMICAL COOKERY 

Fish Pudding 

1 pound cod or haddock 2 tablespoons cream or milk 
4 large potatoes 1 egg, beaten 

2 tablespoons (1 oz.) butter sub- } teaspoon salt 
stitute I teaspoon paprika 

1 teaspoon lemon juice 

Wash fish and boil until tender in boiling salted water. Boil 
potatoes, drain and mash with butter, cream, and egg. Bone 
and flake fish, mix with potatoes, adding seasonings. Fill greased 
fireproof dish with mixture and bake thirty minutes in moderate 
oven. 

Haddock ft La Crteie 

1 fresh haddock 4 tablespoons (1 oz.) flour 

1 tablespoon chopped parsley 1 cup (} pt.) milk or cream 

2 tablespoons (1 oz.) butter sub- 1 teaspoon salt 
stitute i teaspoon pepper 

Remove all bones and skin from haddock and cut fleshy part 
into neat lengths about two inches wide by three inches long. 

Sprinkle parsley into greased fireproof dish, and place in the 
pieces of fish. Blend butter substitute and flour together in 
saucepan, add milk and stir until boiling, then pour over fish. 
Stand dish in pan containing some boiling water, and put in hot 
oven ten minutes. Sprinkle over with seasoning? and chopped 
parsley and serve hot. Kippers, smoked sahnon, or other dried 
fish are good done in a similar way. 

The skins and bones can be used for fish stock. 

Kedgeree of Fish 

1 smoked haddock or 1 pound 4 tablespoons (2 ozs.) drippings 
cold cooked fish i teaspoon salt 

} cup (4 ozs.) rice i teaspoon pepper 

2 hajd-cooked eggs i teaspoon nutmeg 

2 tablespoons chopped parsley 

Free fish from skin and bones, and break it up into small 
pieces. Wash rice and boil in plenty of boiling salted water 
until tender; drain and cool. Melt drippings in a saucepan; 
put in fish, rice, seasonings, and whites of eggs cut in small 
pieces ; mix well and stir over fire for five minutes, and keep hot. 



FISH 87 

Dish up in the form of a pyramid on hot plate or platter. Gar- 
nish with parsley and yolks of eggs rubbed through a coarse 
sieve. Eetum to oven for a few minutes, and serve hot for 
breakfast or luncheon. 

Mackerel au Gratin 

3 mackerel 1 tablespoon vinegar 

1 tablespoon chopped parsley Bread crumbs 

1 teaspoon salt 2 tablespoons (1 oz.) butter sub- 

i teaspoon pepper stitute 

1 onion, chopped 1 teaspoon lemon juice 

Grease a fireproof dish, scatter over it a layer of parsley, 
seasonings, and onion. Fillet mackerel and put fillets on top of 
mixture, pour over vinegar and cover fish with bread crumbs, 
dot with butter substitute, and bake until well browned over 
top. Just before serving sprinkle over lemon juice. 

Planked Fish 

4-pound shad, or whitefish i cup (4 ozs.) drippings, melted 

OhvG oil 1 teaspoon lemon juice 

1 teaspoon salt i lemon, sliced 

i teaspoon white pepper Parsley 

Mashed potatoes 

Split shad down the back. Heat plank very hot, lay fish upon 
it, skin side down, brush fish with oil, and sprinkle with season- 
ings. Bake forty minutes in hot oven, basting with dripping^. 
It may be cooked under flame in gas range. Serve with lemon 
juice sprinkled over, lemon slices, and parsley. Garnish with 
mashed potatoes put through pastry bag and star tube. The 
fish should be sent to the table on plank. 

Haddock or whitefish may be cooked in the same way. 

Salmon Roll with Egg Sauce 

1 can salmon } teaspoon paprika 

1 cup (4 ozs.) bread crumbs 1 pinch powdered nutmeg 

2 eggs, beaten 2 tablespoons milk 

i teaspoon salt } cup (2 ozs.) cracker crumbs 

I teaspoon pepper 2 tablespoons (1 oz.) butter, 

melted 



88 BCONOMICAL COOKSBY 

Mix salmon, bread crumbs, eggs, seasonings, and milk. Mix 
and form into a roll and place on greased tin. Mix cracker 
crumbs with butter, and spread over top and sides of roll. 
Bake thirty minutes in moderate oven. 

Bgg Sattce 

1 tablespoon (} oz.) butter 2 hard-cooked eggs, chopped 

1 tablespoon flour 1 tablespoon tomato catchup 

2 cups (1 pt.) milk I teaspoon salt 

} teaspoon pepper 

Blend butter and floiu: in a saucei)an over the fire, add milk 
and stir until boiling, cook five minutes, and stir in eggs, 
catchup, and seasonings. Pour over roll and serve hot or cold. 

Scallops on Skewers 

24 large scallops i teaspoon paprika 

3 tablespoons flour Broiled bacon 

1 teaspoon salt Strips buttered toast 

I teaspoon pepper Lemon 

Parsley 

Scald scallops in boiling water three minutes ; drain and wipe 
dry. Roll in flour seasoned with salt, pepper, and paprika, and 
fry a few at a time in smoking hot fat. Have ready some 
wooden or metal skewers, put scallops on these, either alone 
or alternating with pieces of broiled bacon, and lay each skewer 
on toast. Gramish with lemon slices and sprigs of parsley and 
serv^ hot. 

Shrimp Croquettes 

1 can shrimp | teaspoon red pepper 

1 cup (} pt.) stock or milk 2 tablespoons (1 oz.) butter 

} teaspoon pepper 4 tablespoons (1 oz.) flour 

1 teaspoon salt 1 egg, beaten 

Bread crumbs 

Blend butter and flour in a saucepan over the fire, add stock 
and boil eight minutes, then add seasonings, and shrimp slightly 
chopped ; reheat but do not boil. Spread on a plate and when 
cold form into neat croquettes. Brush over ^ xh egg, toss in 
bread crumbs and fry in smoking hot fat. Drain and serve hot. 



FISH 89 

Few people realize the high food value of the shrimp. The 
constituents of this shellfish rank with those found in cheese, 
meat, and eggs. Nearly all the edible portion of the shrimp is 
protein. The refuse can be turned into an excellent land 
fertilizer, containing over eleven per cent, nitrogen calculated 
as ammonia. 

Soused Mackerel 

4 mackerel 1 teaspoon salt 

3 bay leaves } teaspoon pepper 

8 cloves Vinegar 

Water 

Clean fish and arrange them closely in fireproof baking dish. 
Sprinkle bay leaves, cloves, salt, and pepper over fish. Cover 
with equal quantities of vinegar and water, and bake two hours 
in slow oven. Serve cold in liquor in which they have been 
cooked. 

Stuffed Flounder 

1 flounder 1 egg, beaten 

I teaspoon pepper 3 tablespoons bread crumbs 

1 tablespoon chopped parsley 2 tablespoons (1 oz.) butter sub- 

1 teaspoon salt stitute 

i teaspoon grated lemon rind 1 tablespoon chopped, cooked, or 

1 cup (i pt.) brown stock or gravy canned lobster, or shrimp 

Skin flounder on both sides, and cut down center ; raise fillets 
one inch on each side of the bone, but do not remove them. 
Mix seasonings, egg, bread crumbs, and butter substitute in a 
bowl, lay mixture under each fillet, place in well-greased tin, 
and pour stock or gravy aroimd, and bake thirty minutes, basting 
occasionally. Serve on hot platter, strain aroimd gravy, and 
dust over fish a few browned bread cnunbs. 

To Bake a Flounder, Remove all dark skin from fish, flour 
it, dip in beaten egg or milk, and roll in bread crumbs or com 
meal with salt and pepper to taste. Put flounder into greased 
fireproof dish, dot with butter substitute, and bake in moderate 
oven thirty-five minutes, basting occasionally with melted fat. 
Just before serving sprinkle over one tablespoon chopped parsley 
and two teaspoons lemon juice. 



90 ECONOMICAL COOKERY 

Stewed Lobster 

1 can lobster } teaspoon mustard 
3 tablespoons (1} ozs.) butter sub- i teaspoon pepper 

stitute i teaspoon salt 

2 teaspoons cornstarch 3 cups (li pts.) milk, hot 

If a good brand of lobster is selected, it is almost as good as 
the freshly caught crustacean. Open lobster can and turn out 
contents into a china bowl one hour before using. Pick meat 
into small pieces, then heat them in butter substitute, add corn- 
starch, mustard, pepper, salt, and milk. Simmer ten minutes 
and serve at once on hot plates. 

Stuffed Smelts 

14 smelts 1 teaspoon salt 

8 oysters i teaspoon pepper 

1 cup (4 ozs.) bread crumbs 1 teaspoon lemon juice 

1 tablespoon drippings, melted Parsley 

1 egg, beaten Fish sauce 

Wipe, clean, and trim smelts. Chop oysters, add bread 
crumbs, seasonings, lemon juice, and strained oyster liquor, mix 
well together and stuff smelts. Fasten edges together over stuff- 
ing, either sewing them or using little wooden skewers. Brush 
jQsh over with egg and roll in bread crumbs. Bake on a greased 
tin in moderate oven fifteen minutes. Then remove thread 
or skewers and serve on a hot dish garnished with parsley. 
Hand fish sauce separately. 

Salmon Fricassee 

1} pounds salmon 3 lumps sugar 

1 cup (i pt.) water 1 shallot, sliced 

1 teaspoon salt 2 teaspoons mustard 

i teaspoon white pepper 4 tablespoons vinegar 

1 clove 6 tomatoes, peeled 

1 blade mace 1 tablespoon chopped parsley 

Triangles of toast 

Cut salmon into pieces one inch square ; put pieces into sauce- 
pan with water, seasonings, sugar, shallot, and mustard mixed 
with vinegar. Bring to boiling point, add tomatoes cut in small 
pieces, and sinmier three fourths of an hour. Add parsley and 
serve very hot, garnished with toast. 



FISH 91 

Sweet and Sour Fish 

4 pounds trout or other fish 1 lemon, sliced 

1 onion i cup (2 ozs.) almonds, blanched 

1 tablespoon mixed spices and chopped 

i cup (3 ozs.) Sultana raisins 5 gingersnaps, grated 

2 bay leaves 1 cup (i lb.) sugar 

1 cup (} pt.) vinegar 

Clean fish and cut in small pieces. Cut onion in fine pieces 
and mix with spices ; add raisins, bay leaves, lemon, and cover 
with water. Bring to boiling point, add fish, almonds, ginger- 
snape, sugar, and vinegar. Cook slowly one and one half 
hours and serve hot. 

Scalloped Oysters 

24 oysters 1 teaspoon flour 

i blade mace } teaspoon salt 

1 tablespoon (} oz.) butter i teaspoon pepper 

Bread crumbs 

Put oysters and liquor into a saucepan, place it over fire and, 
when they are slightly cooked, drain them upon a sieve, catching 
liquor into another pan ; remove beards and put oysters into 
liquor, add mace and place pan again upon fire ; when it boils 
add butter blended with flour, and seasonings. Shake pan over 
fire until sauce thickens. Have scallop shells ready, well 
buttered and crumbed, place oysters in them with sauce, sprinkle 
bread crumbs over them, dot with tiny pieces of butter, and 
bake in moderate oven from twelve to fifteen minutes. 

Tuna Fish Soufll6 

1 can tuna fish } teaspoon paprika 

1 tablespoon (J oz.) butter 1 cup (i pt.) milk 

1 tablespoon floiur 1 teaspoon chopped onion 

i teaspoon salt 1 tablespoon chopped parsley 

i teaspoon pepper 2 eggs, separated 

2 tablespoons bread crumbs 

Turn tuna fish on to a plate, and drain off liquor. Remove 
skin and bones, and break into flakes. Blend butter and flour 
in a saucepan over fire, add milk and stir until thick and smoovh. 



02 BCONOinCAL COOKBBT 

add seasonings, onion, and parsley and stir over fire a few minutes. 
Set aside and when cooled stir in egg yolks and fold in stiffly 
beaten whites. Turn into greased fireproof dish, sprinkle 
crumbs on top and bake in hot oven ten to fifteen minutes. 
Serve hot. This amount, using a fairly large can of tuna fish, 
will serve five or six persons. 

Tuna fish, which is a comparatively new addition to the list 
of canned fish, is called the poultry of the sea, for its flaky, white 
meat resembles in appearance and taste the breast meat of 
chicken and turkey. 



CHAPTER IX 

MEATS 

" A plain leg of mutton, my Lucy, 
I prithee get ready at three ! 
Have it smoking, and tender, and juicy. 
And what better meat can there be? " 

Thb term meat is, oonunonly speaking, applied only to beef, 
mutton, lamb, veal, and pork. 

Soon after an animal has been killed, rigor mortis sets in, which 
lasts for a varying number of days. During this period, meat, 
if cooked, is usually tough, and not of such a good flavor; it 
is customary to let it hang until this toughness passes off. 
During this stage, an acid forms in the meat which acts upon 
the hardening matter, redissolves it, renders the meat tender 
and juicy, and often improves the flavor. 

A full-grown animal is richer in extractives than a young 
animal. The extractives are the chief flavoring matters in meat, 
of no actual value as body-building food, but the sapid properties 
of extractives make the meat more stimulating, and thus they 
aid digestion. 

Meat consists of muscle fiber, bone, and fat. The part of 
meat that is usually cooked and eaten is the muscle fiber. The 
bone and fat form but a small part of the meat as it is prepared 
for the table, though they are purchased with it at the market. 

The cheaper cuts of meat contain more nutriment than the 
expensive ones, but are cheaper because they are not so tender. 
They must be cooked by a long slow process to make them tender 
and palatable. A fireless cooker is excellent for this purpose. 

An ox from four to five years of age yields the fullest flavored 
joints ; in older animals the fibers tend to become coarse and 

93 



94 ECONOMICAL COOKERY 

tough ; in young animals like the calf the flesh is immature, and 
not so rich in flavoring matters; for this reason gravies or 
sauces are served with veal. 

The time occupied in the digestion of meat depends greatly 
upon its condition and the method of cooking. A tender, 
juicy, rare steak should not require more than two and one 
half hours, whereas boiled salted beef will require over four hours, 
roast beef about three and one half hours, and fresh boiled beef 
about three hours. Ox liver and kidneys require about four 
hours for digestion. Pork is more difficult of digestion than most 
meats on account of the excess of fat, although this fat melts 
at a lower temperature than that of beef or mutton. Roast 
pork requires over five hours for digestion, boiled pork about 
four hours, and salt pork a little over three. Pork contains 
about ten per cent, of albumens and twenty per cent, fat, and 
nearly seventy per cent, water. 

Baked Pork Chops 

Pork chops Pepper 

Flour Tomato catchup 

Salt Water 

Take as many chops ajs necessary, dredge them with flour, salt, 
and pepper, and place them in a baking pan or iron spider. Put 
one teaspoon of tomato catchup on each chop. Pour in enough 
water to nearly cover the chops, then place in moderate oven and 
bake two hours, turning them when nearly done to brown on 
other side. 

Beef Heart, Stuffed and Roasted 

1 beef heart 1 egg, beaten 

2 tablespoons (1 oz.) butter sub- 2 tablespoons milk 
stitute i teaspoon salt 

1 tablespoon chopped onion i teaspoon pepper 

3 tomatoes, skinned and chopped i teaspoon celery salt 
1 cup (i lb.) bread crumbs ) cup (4 ozs.) drippings 

1 cup (} pt.) stock or water 

Beef heart is considered coarse and indigestible, but it can 
be made palatable by being stuffed and carefully roasted or 



MBATS 95 

braised. Remove lobes and all pieces of gristle. Wash heart 
in several waters, allow it to lie in cold salted water thirty 
minutes, and then wash again. Cut away membrane which 
divides the two cavities, and be careful that inside is quite free 
from blood. Melt butter substitute, add onion, cook three 
minutes, add tomatoes, and cook ten minutes. Cool, and add 
bread crumbs, egg, milk, and seasonings ; place this stufSng in 
heart, tying piece of greased paper over to keep forcemeat in. 
Melt drippings in roasting tin, place in heart, and roast in hot 
oven two hours, basting frequently. Remove paper, place 
heart on hot platter, and make a gravy in pan with stock or 
water. Serve with red currant jelly. 

Prepare sheep's hearts in same way as above, cook eighty 
minutes and serve like beef heart. 

Beef Olives 

li pounds lean steak 1 small onion, chopped 

3 tablespoons bread crumbs 1 egg, beaten 

1 teaspoon salt 4 tablespoons (2 ozs.) drippings 

i teaspoon pepper 1 tablespoon flour 

1 tablespoon chopped suet 2 cups (1 pt.) stock or water 

1 tablespoon chopped paisley 

Cut meat into thin strips, four and one half inches long and 
two inches wide, and beat them with a rolling pin. Put trim- 
mings of meat through a food chopper, add to them bread 
crumbs, seasonings, suet, onion, and mix together with egg. 
Spread a little of this mixture on each length of meat, roll it 
up, and skewer or tie it. Melt drippings in a saucepan and 
brown olives in it ; then remove them from pan, add floiur and 
brown it also, add stock or water gradually, and when boiling, 
put back olives and sinmier one and one half hours. Dish meat 
in a ring and strain over gravy. Sprinkle with parsley and serve 
hot. 

Boiled Lamb's Head 

1 lamb's head 6 bacon slices, fried 

2 teaspoons salt 3 slices lemon 

1 onion, sliced 2 cups (1 pt.) white sauce 

1 carrot, sliced 2 tablespoons chopped parsley 



96 ECONOMICAL COOKBRT 

If carefully prepared in the following manner a lamb's head 
makes a delicate dish almost equal to calf's head. Wash 
head thoroughly, cut open, place in a saucepan, cover with cold 
water and bring to the boil. Pour off water, and substitute 
fresh hot water ; bring to boiling point ; skim well and add salt, 
onion, and carrot. Simmer two and one half to three hours. 
Drain and place on hot dish. Add parsley and one tablespoon 
lemon juice to white sauce, bring to a boil, and pour over head. 
Garnish with bacon and lemon slices. 

Brain sauce may be served separately, but it is not necessary. 

Boiled Neck or Shoulder of Mutton 

1 shoulder or neck mutton 2 leeks, diced 

Salt 1 turnip, diced 

1 bunch celery, diced 1 bunch herbs 

1 carrot, sliced 1 teaspoon whole white peppers 

Tie meat in clean cloth, place in saucepan wil^ enough boiling 
water to well cover it, add salt to taste, vegetables, and whole 
white peppers ; bring to the boil, skim well, and then simmer 
very gently for two and one half to three hours, according to 
size of meat. Take up meat and remove cloth, place meat on 
hot platter, strain a little of the gravy round and garnish with the 
vegetables. Serve hot with caper sauce in a sauceboat. 

The liquor can be used for soups. 

Leg of mutton may be cooked in the same way. 

Braised Steak 

3 pounds steak or top of round 1 tablespoon flour or cornstarch 

1 teaspoon salt 2 cups (1 pt.) stock or water 
Red pepper 1 bunch herbs 

2 tablespoons (1 oz.) butter sub- 2 onions, chopped 
stitute 2 carrots, slic^ 

1 turnip, sliced 

Season meat with salt and red pepper, and put it into a sauce- 
pan with butter substitute, cover pan, and fry fifteen minutes ; 
then sprinkle in flour or cornstarch, and shake pan well to 
prevent steak sticking to the bottom, add water or stock, bring 



MEATS 97 

to the boO, skim well, add herbs and onions. Cook one hour, 
then add vegetables, and cook thirty minutes longer. Replenish 
by more boiling water or stock as it reduces. When cooked, dish 
on hot platter, strain gravy round, and serve hot. One peeled 
and sliced tomato is a good addition. 

Boston Stew 

1 cup (} pt.) dried beans } teaspoon pepper 

1) pounds pickled pork 3 tomatoes, skinned and sliced 

2 tablespoons (} oz.) flour or 3 onions, sliced 
potato flour 

Wash beans, cover with cold water, and soak overnight. Next 
day drain and put them into a saucepan with fresh cold water, 
cook them gently one hour, then place half of them in a greased 
fireproof dish. On top lay pork and cover with remainder of 
beans. Thicken water in which beans were cooked with flour, 
add pepper, and pour over pork and beans, which should be 
just covered. On top place slices of tomato, and on these lay 
very thin slices of onion. Cover closely and cook in oven or on 
top of stove for about three hours. When space permits, pota- 
toes in quarters may be laid on top forty minutes before serving. 
When flavor of tomato is disliked, a bouillon cube should be 
mixed with the liquid before thickening it with flour. 

Crown Roast of Lamb 

1 crown roast 4 cups (2 pts.) cooked peas 

4 cups (2 pts.) mashed potatoes Salt and pepper 

Mint sauce 

Select parts from two loins of mutton or lamb containing 
ribs, scrape flesh from bone between ribs, as far down as the 
lean meat, and trim off backbone. Keep ribs on the outside, 
shaping each piece in a semicircle, and sew together to form a 
crown. Trim ends of bones evenly and do not leave them too 
long. Cover bone ends with pieces of fat salt pork, or wrap each 
rib with bacon to prevent bones from burning. Dust with flour, 
salt, and pepper, place on a rack, cover with greased paper, and 
cook in hot oven for one and one fourth hours, basting frequently 



98 XCONOMICAL COOKERY 

with hot fat. Remove to hot platter, take off pork, cover bones 
with paper frills, garnish with potatoes and peas, and serve with 
mint sauce. 

Dutch Stew 

2 tablespoons (1 oz.) drippings 6 potatoes 

2 onions, sliced 1 teaspoon salt 

1} pounds neck of mutton i teaspoon pepper 

1 cabbage } teaspoon celery salt 

Melt drippings, add onions, and fry. Wash mutton, put it 
in pot with water which clings to it, cover with lid, and cook 
gently forty-five minutes. Trim, wash, and slice cabbage mto 
eight pieces and put these in water ; peel potatoes and cut into 
slices one half inch thick, place these also in water. Lift cabbage 
and potatoes dripping with water and pack them round meat, add 
seasonings, cover with lid, and simmer forty-five minutes longer. 
This stew must be cooked very slowly, or it will bum ; but it is 
delicious if properly treated. 

Ham Baked in Pastry 

1 medium-sized ham 4 cups (1 lb.) barley flour 

2 cups a lb.) flour Cold water 

i cup (4 ozs.) drippings 

Wash ham and soak it in lukewarm water six hoiu^. Then 
saw off knuckle bone, and if ham is very large, boil it carefully 
one hour. Into a bowl sift flours and make into stiff paste with 
water. Roll out on floured baking board. Drain and dry ham, 
place it on pastry, wet edges of paste with water, and wrap up 
ham in it. Place it in roasting pan with drippings and bake in 
moderate oven, basting frequently. The time will depend upon 
size and thickness of ham ; about three hours should be allowed 
for a medium-sized ham, or twenty minutes to the pound and 
twenty minutes over. When ready, remove crust and skin. 
If served hot, a wine sauce may be served separately. If served 
cold, sprinkle it thickly with browned bread crumbs. Place 
ham in oven a few minutes in order to make crumbs adhere. 

If only a half ham is being baked, the preliminary boiling 
may be dispensed with. 



HEATS 99 

A Simple Way to Bake a Ham, Scrub a medlumHsized ham 
well and let soak in cold water overnight. Place ham meat side 
down in a roaster or deep pan and fill nearly to top with cold 
water. Cover with lid, place in oven, and cook two hours with- 
out turning. Turn and bake two hours longer or until a fork 
will pierce it easily. Remove from oven, skin, stick in a few 
cloves, and cover with plenty of brown sugar. Return to oven 
and let remain until browned. Serve with spinach, Brussels 
sprouts, or green peas, 

Hungarian Goolash 

2 pounds flank steak Cold water 

Salt, pepper, and paprika Fresh or canned tomatoes 

Sliced onions Small peeled potatoes 

This Hungarian dish is inexpensive and appetizing. Cut 
steak into cubes and arrange on the bottom of a saucepan or 
casserole. Season with salt, pepper, and paprika, and cover 
with a layer of onions and so on, until dish is as full as desired. 
Add water just to show above meat, then place over fire, and 
let come to a boil. Allow two cups of tomatoes to each four 
cups of meat and potatoes. Put these on top of meat, but do 
not stir. Simmer two hours or until meat is tender. Add 
potatoes, pushing meat to one side to make room for them, cook 
twenty minutes longer, and serve. 

Irish Stew 

2 or 3 pounds neck or breast of 1 teaspoon salt 

mutton or lamb i teaspoon pepper 

16 potatoes, sliced } teaspoon paprika 

4 onions, sliced 4 teaspoons chopped parsley 

Wipe meat and cut it in small pieces, removing all skin and 
superfluous fat. Put meat into a saucepan, add seasonings, 
and cover with warm water. Bring to boiling point and remove 
all scum, then add vegetables and more seasonings if necessary. 
Put lid on pan and simmer slowly one and three fourths hours. 
Shake pan occasionally while stew ia cooking, but remove lid 
as little as possible. If liquid dries up, add a very little hot water. 



loo ECONOMICAL COOKERY 

but do not make stew watery. Arrange on hot platter and 
sprinkle over parsley. 

Other vegetables may be added if liked, and one tablespoon 
of tomato or mushroom catchup or Worcestershire sauce may be 
poured in at the last. Serve hot. 

Kabab 

1} pounds lean veal 1 small onion, slioea 

Salt and pepper i lemon 

Bruised caraway seeds Sour cream 

4 tablespoons (2 oas.) butter Pcundey 

substitute CrodtoDS toasted bread 

Remove all skin and fat from veal, cut it into strips two and 
one half inches long by one inch wide, and not exceeding three 
fourths inch in thickness, and sprinkle with a mixture of salt, 
pepper, and caraway seeds to taste. Melt butter substitute 
in saucepan, add onion, fry slowly, add strained lemon juice, 
place in veal, and brown nicely over brisk heat. Pour over 
sufficient sour cream to thoroughly moisten it, turn whole into 
fireproof dish, cover, and stand in moderate oven ; let cook gently 
until tender, and serve garnished with parsley, slices of lemon, 
and croutons of toasted bread. 

Kol Dolmer 

1 poimd sirloin steak i teaspoon paprika 

} pound pork tenderloin 1 onion, grated 

1 cup (i lb.) rice Cabbage leaves 

2 teaspoons salt Butter substitute 

i teaspoon pepper 1 cup (} pt.) milk or cream 

Put meats through chopper. Wash and boil rice in boiling 
salted water until tender, then drain and add to meat with 
seasonings and onion. Wilt some cabbage leaves by pouring 
hot water over them. Roll a tablespoon of mixture in a cabbage 
leaf, and when all are finished place them in a greased baking pan, 
spread a little butter substitute over each, add cup of hot water, 
and bake forty minutes. Turn and bake till done. Pour over 
milk or cream, make hot, and serve at once. 



BfEATB 101 

Lamb en Casserole . 

2 pounds shoulder lamb, cut in 1 can com 

pieces 1 teaspoon salt 

2 onions, sliced i teaspoon pepper 

4 tomatoes, sliced i teaspoon paprika 

3 potatoes, sliced 1 cup (} pt.) water 

Put layer of lamb in bottom of large casserole, place on this 
layer of onions, tomatoes, and layer of potatoes, next layer of 
lamb, and so on, imtil dish is three fourths full. Season each 
layer with salt, pepper, and paprika, then cover with com, and 
pour over water. Cover and bake two and one half hours. 

Loin of Veal Roasted 

5 pounds loin veal 4 tablespoons (2 ozs.) butter sub- 
1 teaspoon salt stitute 

} teaspoon pepper 1 cup (} pt.) stock or water, hot 

Lemon slices 

Wipe meat, and sprinkle with salt and pepper and a little 
flour. Place on rack in roasting pan and place aroimd meat 
strips of salt pork or bacon. Cook four and one half hours, 
basting often with butter substitute melted in water. Serve 
hot, garnished with lemon slices and brown gravy separately. 

Marinaded Cutlets 

1 pound neck of mutton 1 onion, chopped 

6 teaspoons vinegar 1 bay leaf 

1 tablespoon vegetable oil 1 egg, beaten 

} teaspoon pepper Mashed potatoes 

1 teaspoon salt Green peas, or string beans 

Cut mutton into cutlets, allowing two cutlets for each bone, 
beat, and trim neatly. Let them soak one hour in vinegar, oil, 
and seasonings ; drain and dredge with flour. Brush each one 
with egg and roll it in bread crumbs ; repeat egging and crumbing 
a second time, and, if possible, leave them one hour. Fry 
them in plenty of smoking hot fat and drain well before serving 
on moimd of mashed potatoes, peas, or beans. 

Veal cutlets, fillets of beef, and fillets of white fish are excellent 
when prepared by same method. 



102 ECONOMICAL COOKEBY 

Another Method. Flatten six mutton cutlets from the loin, 
put them in a frying pan, add one onion sliced, one carrot sliced, 
one bunch herbs, and two cups water or stock, cook thirty 
minutes, turning cutlets several times. Boil and mash eight 
potatoes, add two tablespoons hot milk, and salt and pepper to 
taste. Remove cutlets from pan. Take a piece of the potato 
and flatten it out, envelop a cutlet in this, leaving a piece 
of bone sticking out at top, and repeat until all are finished. 
Place them on a greased tin, brush over with milk, and bake 
in hot oven until browned. Serve with gravy. 

Mutton Hot Pot with Dumplings 

2 pounds mutton 1 cup (i lb.) flour or potato flour 

3 slices fat bacon 4 tablespoons (2 ozs.) butter sub- 
1 bunch herbs stitute 

Salt and pepper 2 teaspoons baking powder 

1 teaspoon chopped parsley 

Wipe mutton and cut it in small pieces free from skin and bone ; 
cut bacon also in small pieces and put them into an earthenware 
dish with hot water to cover; add herbs, salt, and pepper to 
taste. One tablespoon chopped onion or a clove of garlic may 
also be added. Put lid on dish and cook slowly on stove or in 
oven one hour, then add dumplings and cook thirty minutes 
longer. 

Sift flour, one half teaspoon salt and baking powder into a bowl, 
cut and rub in butter substitute, add parsley, then mix very 
lightly with water or milk into a softish dough, and put in 
spoonfuls on top of mutton. Serve hot in the same dish. 

Oz Tail with Vegetables 

1 ox tail 1 bay leaf 

4 tablespoons (2 ozs.) butter sub- 4 tablespoons (1 oz.) flour or 
stitute potato flour 

1 carrot, sliced 2 cups (1 pt.) brown stock or 

1 onion, sliced gravy 

1 turnip, sliced Salt and pepper 

1 bunch herbs 2 teaspoons lemon juice 

Cut ox tail in neat joints, put pieces into a saucepan with cold 
water to cover, add one fourth teaspoon salt, and bring to the 



MEATS 103 

boil. Bo3 eight minutes, drain, and wipe dry. Put butter into 
a saucepan, add vegetables, and place pieces of ox tail on top ; 
cover pan and fry twenty minutes, sprinkle in flour, and add 
stock, seasonings, lemon, and cook gently four hours, adding a 
little hot stock as liquid reduces and removing any fat that may 
rise to surface. Take up pieces of ox tail and place on hot 
platter. Rub vegetables and liquid through a sieve, then 
reheat it and pour over and round ox tail. Garnish with parsley 
and serve hot. 

Pig's Feet with Saoce 

2 pairs pig's feet 1 bay leaf 

Sausage meat 1 carrot, sliced 

Baocxi 1 onion, sliced 

1 blade mace 3 cloves 

1 bunch herbs 

Scald pig's feet, slit each foot down, then bone them and 
parboil feet in salted water, drain, and let cool. Spread cut 
side with a little sausage meat and wrap each half in slice of 
bacon ; tie up with thin twine. Place feet in a saucepan one 
third filled with stock or water, add seasonings, onion, and 
carrot. Bring to boiling point and then simmer until quite 
tender. Drain and cool and remove string, then brush over 
with beaten egg or milk and toes in bread crumbs; fry to a 
golden brown in plenty of smoking hot fat. Drain and place 
on hot dish, garnish with parsley, and serve with the following 
sauce: 

Into a saucepan put four tablespoons of vinegar and reduce 
it to one half over the fire; add one cup brown sauce and three 
finely chopped gherkins. 

Roasted Beef, Vlrgiiiia Style 

1 mediumHMed roast of beef 6 slices bacon 

Salt and white pepper 4 tablespoons stock or water 

Flour 1 bouillon cube 

1 onion, sliced Sweet potatoes 

1 carrot, sliced Brown sugar 

Wipe beef and dredge with mixture of flour, salt, and pepper. 
In roasting pan lay onion, bacon, carrot, and bouillon cube dis- 



104 ECONOmCAL COOKEBT 

solved in stock or water. Place roast on this and surround with 
sweet potatoes which have been peeled, salted, peppered, and 
sprinkled over with sugar. Cook in moderate oven, allowing 
twenty minutes for every pound of meat. Baste occasionally 
with hot drippings. The beef and potatoes should be ready 
about the same time. Serve on a hot platter. 

Shoulder of Mutton 

1 good-sized shoulder mutton 4 tablespoons (2 ozb.) drippings 

1 garlic clove 1 teaspoon salt 

1 onion, peeled i teaspoon pepper 

1 carrot, sliced 1 cup (} pt.) stock or water 

Trim superfluous fat from mutton and remove blade bone; 
put cut clove of garlic inside meat, then roll up, and tie with thin 
twine. Remove portion of knuckle bone. Cut onion in quarters 
and place it in a roasting pan with carrot, drippings, seasonings, 
and meat on top. Roast in moderately hot oven two hours or 
longer, according to weight and thickness of mutton. Baste 
meat frequently with hot drippings. Place meat on platter 
and keep it hot. 

Pour off fat from roasting pan, add stock or water to vegetables, 
boil five minutes, season to taste, and strain. Pour gravy roimd 
mutton and serve. 

Cooked beans or lentils and baked potatoes go well with this 
dish. 

Spiced Beef 

10 to 12 pounds beef 1 teaspoon powdered nutmeg 

2 cups (12 ozs.) coarse brown 1 ounce saltpeter 
sugar 1 cup (} lb.) fine salt 

li teaspoons powdered mace 4 cups (2 pts.) stock or water 

1} teaspoons black pepper 1 small onion, sliced 

} teaspoon red pepper 2 carrots, sliced 

2 teaspoons powdered cloves 1: bunch herbs 

Choose beef from round or thick flank, rub sugar well into it, 
and let stand two days. Mix spices with saltpeter and a little 
more sugar, then rub weU into beef and allow to stand three 
days. 



KEATB 105 

Add salt to pickle that has formed and rub it again into beef, 
turning and nibbing it with this pickle daily twelve da3rs. Now 
hang up to dry. When wanted, wash but do not soak it, tie it 
into shape with tape, and place in a pan that will hold it ; pour 
over hot stock or water, bring to the boil, then add vegetables 
and herbs and bring this again just to the boil ; draw pan to side 
of fire and simmer four and one half hours. Lift meat out on 
to platter, place another platter on top, weight heavily but 
evenly, and leave till cold. Wipe over with a warm cloth. 
Reduce gravy by rapid boiling and strain it over meat. 



Sucking Pig, Roasted 

1 sucking pig Tart apple sauce 

Sage and onion stuffing Parsley 

Lemon and watercress 

Sucking pig is an excellent old-fashioned dish. The little 
pig should be small, and is best at three or four weeks old. 
It should be cooked as soon as it is killed, as its flesh taints 
quickly, and, unless it is fresh, nothing will render the crackling 
as crisp as it should be. Wash pig thoroughly in cold water and 
wipe dry. Season inside with salt, pepper, and a little powdered 
sage. Fill body of pig with stujQSng, then draw skin together 
with a coarse needle and thread. Roll legs and ears in greased 
paper, bending forefeet under body and hind feet backwards, 
skewering them in place. Put piece of wood between jaws to 
keep them open. Put pig in roasting pan, rub skin with oil, 
sprinkle with salt and pepper, and dredge with flour. Bake in 
brisk oven, basting frequently. When pig seems tender and 
nice golden yellow, which will be from two to two and one half 
hoMiB, remove paper from legs and ears and cook fifteen minutes 
longer. Arrange watercress, celery, baked apples, or whatever 
garnishing is desired on hot platter, place pig on top, remove 
wood from mouth, replacing it with an apple or lemon, and serve 
with gravy and apple sauce. 

Bread stuffing, potato stuffing, or a chestnut and sausage 
stuffing may be used. Cranberry jelly, Brussels sprouts, and 
sweet potatoes are all excellent with roast pig. 



106 BCONOMICAL COOKBBT 



Sweetbreads, in Gravy 

3 heart sweetbreadB 1 onioDi sliced 

1 bunch herbs 1 turnip, sliced 

1 cup a pt.) stock 4 tablespoons (1 os.) flour or 

1 cup (} lb.) bacon or salt pork potato flour 

Salt and pepper 2 tablespoons (1 os.) butter 

1 carrot, sliced substitute 

Soak sweetbreads in cold water two hours, changing water 
several times ; drop them in boiling water for three minutes, lift 
out into oold water with few drops lemon juice added, leave 
fifteen minutes^ drain, remove skin and fat, press thirty minutes 
between two plates, cut bacon into long strips, and lard sweet- 
breads with them. Put vegetables at bottom of baking pan, lay 
sweetbreads on top, pour round stock, simmer slowly thirty 
minutes. Melt butter substitute in another pan, add flour, and 
when smooth, stir in stock from sweetbreads ; cook five minutes, 
adding seasonings to taste. Dish sweetbreads and strain sauce 
over. Serve hot. Sweetbreads are exceedingly light and easily 
digested, and much less stimulating than other meat. 



Tongne en Casserole 

1 fresh beef tongue 1 cup (} lb.) butter substitute 

4 cups (2 pts.) cooking apples 1 teaspoon powdered allspice 
1 cup (6 oiB.) brown sugar } teai^poon powdered mace 

i teaspoon salt 

Wash and trim tongue carefully, roll it round, and keep it in 
shape with tape, then boil it the day before you wish to use it, so 
that it may become cold and finn. Ck)re, peel, and quarter 
apples ; spread them in large greased casserole, sprinkle over with 
sugar, dot with butter substitute, dust with salt and spices. 
Cook one hour, stirring and basting frequently. Pick out apples 
carefully so that th^ do not break, and pile in center of 
hot platter. Slice tongue and cook in hot sirup ten minutes. 
Place tongue in border round apples and serve hot. 

When choosing an ox tongue select one with a smooth skin, as 
a very rough skin is a sign of age. 



Hah Baked im Pahtry. Page S 



Loin of Veai,, Kuastkd. J'age 101. 



KuHOviNo THB Tusuosa FROM TuHKEv. Page lit. 



Kabbit en Cassekole. I> 



HEATS 107 

Tripe en Casserole 

3 pounds tripe 1 onion, sliced 

1 teaspoon salt 1 turnip, sliced 

i teaspoon pepper 1 bay leaf 

1 carrot, sliced Cidor or water 

Plain paste 

Cut tripe into square pieces and season with salt and pepper. 
Line a casserole with the vegetables and add bay leaf, then pour 
on sufficient cider to cover tripe. Have ready a plain paste made 
of flour and water, roll it out and place over tripe, put on lid, 
and then place pot in the oven, and cook two and one half hours. 
To serve, remove crust, put pieces of tripe into hot casserole^ 
remove fat from liquor, boil up, season to taste, and strain over 
tripe. Serve hot. 



99 



CHAPTER X 
POULTRY AND GAME 

" One likes the pheasant's wmg and one the leg.' 

Thb dressing of poultry has everything to do with its delicacy 
as an article of food. When properly dressed, the skin is of a 
clear color and free from blotches and pin feathers. The flesh 
is firm, yet yields easily to pressure, never tight and drawn. 

The surest way to test the age of a dressed fowl is to bend the 
point of the breast bone to one side. If the fowl is very young, 
it will respond to little pressure. At medium age the point is 
brittle ; in an old fowl it is very hard and tough. The older the 
fowl, the harder and rougher its feet and blunter its claws. On 
the other hand, young fowls have soft, smooth feet and sharp 
claws. 

When birds are intended for immediate use it is just as well to 
have them prepared by the poulterer, otherwise they should be 
bought untrussed and undrawn, and himg up until required. 
They keep .so much better when not drawn that it is always 
advisable to postpone the operation as long as possible. In 
drawing a fowl, begin by cutting a long slit in the back of the 
neck, then cut off the neck close to the body, leaving three inches 
of skin to cover the opening. Remove the crop, then insert two 
fingers and tear away the skin which connects the various in- 
ternal organs of the bird. Now cut a small opening just above 
the tail, insert the fingers as before, detach the skin adhering to 
the body, take firm hold of the gizzard, which is situated under 
the breast bone, and remove it. The other internal parts, being 
indirectly attached to it, will be withdrawn at the same time. 

108 



POULTRT AND GAliB 109 

Care must be taken not to break the gall bladder, the dark green 
bag between the lobes of the liver, for the gall would impart a 
bitter flavor to the bird that no amount of washing would com- 
pletely remove. 

Game may be correctly described as anything that has been 
hunted by sportsmen. Any bird or animal which is shot or 
snared for amusement should by right be classed as game, 
but the term now is applied to a select few only. The flesh of 
game is believed to possess strengthening qualities superior to 
that of poultry; it also contains less fat and is tender. It 
forms a valuable diet for the invalid by reason of its easy 
digestibility. 

Until cooked, game has little or no flavor, and very little smell ; 
when cooked the *J game flavor '', as it is termed, is to be dis- 
tinguished and is modified to style of cooking. 

The flesh of all kinds of game undergoes changes after death. 
The supple muscles stiffen with rigor, after which putrefaction 
sets in very slowly. During these successive changes various 
substances are formed. The " fumet " of game shows the de- 
velopment of certain substances which not only give it its 
special characteristic flavor, but render the flesh more easy of 
digestion. On this account game that is well hung makes appe- 
tizing and digestible fare for invalids. 

Game that has hung too long develops an acrid flavor. It 
is termed " high " ; this means that it is decomposing. Birds 
that are becoming soft-fleshed, gelatinous, flabby, even green, 
should be thrown away, because it is dangerous to eat them. 
Cooking may change the flavor of " high game ", making the 
flesh more wholesome, but there is great risk of ptomaine poison- 
ing if a '' turned " bird be eaten. 

With well-hung game, washing must be avoided. Wiping it 
inside and out with a damp cloth is the most that should be 
attempted, and when the bird is served, the gravy should be 
served in a tureen and not poured over the bird, since the aim 
is to conserve the flavor of the bird as much as possible. 

All game requires careful cooking, with frequent bastings, or 
otherwise it eats dry and deficient in flavor. Most game re- 
quires to be well cooked. 



110 ECONOMICAL COOKBBT 

Baked Chicken 

1 spring chicken i cup (4 on.) butter substitute 

4 cups (1 qt.) parsnips, slioed 3 slices salt pork 

1 teaspoon salt Hot water 

i tea^)oon pepper Baked potatoes 

Draw, singe, and clean chicken, slit it down the back and lay it in 
greased dripping pan, skin side up. Wash, parboil, and scrape 
parsnips. Arrange these around chicken, sprinkle with salt and 
pepper, dot with bits of butter, and top with pork cut in very 
thin slices. Pour enough hot water in pan to prevent burning, 
and bake until chicken and parsnips are done to a delicate brown. 
Then place chicken on hot platter and arrange parsnips around 
it. Make a cream gravy from drippings in pan and serve with the 
potatoes. 

Boiled Torkey, Celery Sauce 

1 turkey } teaspoon pepper 
Slices fat bacon or pork 1 tablespoon lemon {nice 

2 cups (8 ozs.) bread crumbs 1 saltspoon powdered herbs 
1 tablespoon chopped parsley 1 egg, beaten 

i teaspoon salt 4 tablespoons milk 

Singe, draw, and truss tiirkey, rub it over with cut lemon. 
Make stuffing of suet, bread crumbs, seasonings, egg, and milk, 
put it into breast of turkey, fasten skin loosely over it, cover 
breast with bacon. Then tie bird in clean cloth, put it into 
saucepan with sufficient boiling water to cover it, bring quickly 
to the boil and then simmer until done. A ten-pound turkey 
requires two hours, a fifteen-pound bird two and one half hours. 
It should only simmer all the time. Take turkey out of cloth, 
remove bacon and skewers. Put it on hot platter, pour one cup 
of the sauce over breast and serve rest in a sauceboat. 

To Make the Sauce. Wash one small head of celery, cut it into 
shreds, and put it into a saucepan with cold water to cover, 
bring to the boil and drain off water. Pour in two cups of stock 
or water, cook slowly imtil tender, and rub throu^ a sieve. 
Melt two tablespoons butter substitute in a saucepan, stir in four 
tablespoons of flour and when well blended iadd celery pur^ and 
stir until boiling ; add two tablespoons milk, salt and pepper to 

taste, and eook for a few miQutee longer, 



POULTBT AND GAICE 111 

BroUed Partridges 

Partridges Melted batter 

Salt and p^per Bread sauoe 

Split each prepared bird down the back, rub with salt and 
pepper, and brush over with melted butter. Place on greased 
broiler and turn frequently to avoid burning. Allow half a 
partridge to each portion. Spread bread sauce under each half, 
surround with coarse buttered bread crumbs and spoonfuls of 
red currant jelly. 

Bread Sattce 

2 cups (1 pt.) milk I teaspoon salt 

i cup (2 ofls.) bread crumbs i teaspoon pepper 

1 white onion } teaspoon paprika 

4 cloves 1 tablespoon butter substitute, 

melted 

Pour milk into upper pan of double boiler, add crumbs and 
onion stuck with cloves, and oook twenty minutes. Add sea- 
sonings and butter substitute. Remove onion and use. 

To Make Buttered Bread Cnanbe, Brown one cup of coarse 
stale bread crumbs in two tablespoons of melted butter sub- 
stitute and use with game. 

Braised Turkey 

1 turkey 3. carrots 
Slices fat bacon or pork 1 parsnip 

2 onions 1 bunch herbs 

3 cloves 2 teaspoons salt 

1 teaspoon pepper 

Pick, singe, remove tendons, and draw turkey, save heart, 
liver and gizzard, cut off neck and legs; cover bird with bacon 
and tie it round with tape to keep it in shape. Line bottom of 
deep casserole with bacon, place tiurkey on these, add giblets, 
trimmings of turkey, onion stuck with cloves, vegetables, herbs, 
and seasonings. Lay more bacon over turkey and cover with 
boiling stock. Put lid on casserole and cook slowly five to six 
hoiurs. Serve turkey on hot platter with vegetables around it, 
and gravy, strained and freed from fat, poured oyer iti 



112 ECONOMICAL COOKEBT 

Chicken Pie 

1 large fowl or two chickens Salt and white pepper 

1 onion, sliced 3 tablespoons (IJ ozs.) butter 
3 celery stalks substitute 

3 carrots sliced 2 tablespoons (} oz.) flour 

Boiling water 1 cup (} pt.) cream or milk 

Pastry 

Singe, draw, and clean fowl. Pull tendons from legs with a 
skewer. If there is considerable fat, remove so that the pie will 
not be too greasy. Lay fowl breast down in a saucepan with 
vegetables. Just cover with water and simmer until tender. 
About thirty minutes before chicken is done, season to taste. 
When done, lift pan from fire and without removing fowl, set in 
cold place where it will cool rapidly. Then cover and set away 
until next day. Next morning skim off fat from top, take out 
the fowl, and skin and cut in pieces. Melt butter substitute, 
stir in flour, and when smooth add two and one half cups of the 
chicken stock. Stir until it thickens, season with salt and pepper, 
add cream and simmer a few moments. If liked, the yolks of two 
eggs mixed with a little of the hot gravy may be added just be- 
fore taking from fire. Season pieces of fowl with salt and pepper, 
and pack them in fireproof dish, having an inverted cup in 
center to hold up top prust. Pour in the sauce and cover with 
pastry. 

Cut one or two holes in crust to allow for the escape of the 
steam. Brush over with milk and bake in a hot oven for forty 
minutes. 

Alternate layers of chicken and oysters, making the sauce of 
equal parts of chicken gravy and oyster broth, is also an ap- 
proved way of making chicken pie. 

Chicken Pilau 

2 onions, sliced 2 cups (1 pt.) stock 

2 tablespoons (1 oz.) butter sub- i teaspoon whole white peppen 

stitute 1 blade mace 

1 chicken 2 cloves 

} cup (i lb.) rice 1 teaspoon salt 

2 hard-cooked eggs 



POULTRY AND GAME 113 

Fry onions in butter substitute, and when sufficiently browned 
take out and place aside for future use. Cut up chicken into 
ten pieces and fry it in butter in which onions were cooked, and 
when colored take out and place by the onions. Now fry well- 
washed rice in butter, stirring frequently to prevent burning, 
and when fat is absorbed make a well in center and put in onions 
and chicken. Add stock, peppers, mace, cloves, and a few 
cardamons if obtainable, all tied in a piece of muslin or cheese- 
cloth, and simmer one hour, add salt, and, if rice becomes too dry, 
add a small quantity of boiling stock. When cooked take out 
spice bag. Place on dish and garnish with eggs cut in quarters. 

Pilau means an oriental combination of rice cooked with 
spices and butter ; almonds and raisins, usually fried, often being 
added. Most pilau dishes involve meat boOed in stock, but fish 
pilau and sweet pilau, the latter containiag no flesh food, are 
used in some parts of India by Europeans who employ native 
cooks. Pilau dishes require skill and care in preparation, or 
they will be impalatable. 

Duck with Turnips 

1 tender duck 4 tablespoons (1 oz.) flour 

3 tablespoons (1} ozs.) butter 2 cups (1 pt.) stock or water 

substitute 1 bunch herbs 

i teaspoon salt 1 onion 

i teaspoon pepper 2 cloves 

12 yoimg turnips 

Truss duckling with legs folded back and close to sides, and 
pinions tucked under ; fasten with fine twine. Melt butter in a 
saucepan, add seasonmg^ and duck. Brown it, turning it over 
so that it gets evenly colored. Take it out, and place in oven 
in deep dish. Put flour in saucepan and stir till smooth and 
brown. Add water, mix well and boil up, and cook five minutes. 
Strain sauce into a saucepan, put in duck, herbs, and onion 
stuck with cloves. Simmer thirty minutes. Add turnip 
(prepared as below) and simmer until turnips are done. Place 
duck on hot platter, arrange turnips round it, take fat off sauce 
and strain it over duck. 

Peel turnips, wash and drain, and boil them five minutes in 



114 BCONOMICAL COOKBBT 

water to which a little salt has been added; drain again. Melt 
three tablespoons dripping? in saucepan, add turnips and fry 
them, shaking pan to color them evenly. Drain and add to duck. 

Fdcasste of Chicken 

1 chicken (Just about 4 lbs.) 1 cup (i lb.) rice 

5 cups (2} pts.) boiling water 2 tablespoons (1 os.) butter 

4 tablespoons (1 oi.) flour 2 tablespoons chopped red pepper 

2 teaspoons salt 2 tablespoons chopped green 
1 teafi^XNm pepper pepper 

Parsley 

Prepare chicken and cut it into neat joints, place in a sauce- 
pan, cover with water, and simmer until tender. Skim out 
pieces of chicken, cool, roll in flour which has been seasoned with 
salt and pepper, and fry brown in hot lard. 

Wash rice and cook it in chicken liquor until almost tender, 
and drain thoroughly ; then fry it in butter with red and green 
peppers, season nicely, and turn out on to hot platter. Arrange 
chicken on top of rice and garnish with parsley. 

Fxica886e of Guinea Fowl 

1 guinea fowl } pound fat bacon or pork 

2 tablespoons (} os.) flour 1 tablespoon chopped onion 
1 teaspoon salt i tablespoon lemon juice 

i teaspoon pepper 1 tablespoon red currant jeUy 

i teaqpoon nutmeg 2 croiitons bread 

Cut guinea fowl in small joints, removing as much of skin as 
possible and any unnecessary bone. Mix flour with seasonings. 
Dip pieces of guinea fowl into tUs, coating them well. Cut 
bacon in small pieces, put it into hot frying pan, and cook a few 
minutes without allowing it to become too brown. Now lift it 
out, draining it from gravy, and place it in saucepan. Put 
guinea fowl, a few pieces at a time, into hot bacon fat and fry 
until brown on all sides. Then place them beside bacon in 
saucepan. Put any remaining flour or add one tablespoon to 
frying pan, stir it until brown, pour in two cups of stock or 
water, and stir until boiling. Strain this sauce over guinea fowl, 



POULTBT AND QAMB 115 

add onion, red currant jelly and lemon juioe, and stew slowly 
until bird is tender. Garnish with croAtons of fried bread and 
serve with an orange or celery salad. 

Goose wiHi Chestnuts 

1 young goose 1 carrot 

Bait and pepper 1 onion 

Flour 1 tablespoon lemon Juice 

4 tablespoons (2 on.) butter sub- Brown stock or water 

stitute 86 chestnuts 

Prepare and truss goose, dusting it with salt, pepper, and flour. 
Melt butter in saucepan, and when hot put in goose and turn it 
over and over until brown on all sides. Add carrot and onion 
cut in thin slices, lemon juice, and seasoning of salt and pepper. 
Add enough stock to half cover goose. Place lid on pan and 
cook slowly at back of range or in oven until goose is tender. 
Baste bird occasionally with stock, adding more if necessary, 
but amount of liquid should be kept rather low. Serve goose on 
hot platter with some gravy poured round and chestnuts as a 
garnish. 

To Prepare CJiestntds. Roast chestnuts and when very tender 
remove shells and under skins. Put chestnuts into a saucepan 
with just enough brown stock to cover them, add one teaspoon 
each of sugar and salt. Simmer until stock is reduced and 
chestnuts glazed. 

Hare Haricot 

1 hare } teaspoon pepper 

4 tablespoons (2 on.) butter sub- 1 tablespoon lemon juice 

stitute 1 tablespoon red currant jelly 

2 cups (1 pt.) brown sauce 12 mushrooms 

1 teaspoon salt 12 small button onions 

Skin and dean hare, and cut it into neat joints. Melt butter 
in a saucepan, put in pieces of hare, and fry a nice brown color. 
Drain away fat, and add brown sauce and half a cup of boiling 
water. Bring to boiling point, and simmer for one hour. Ten 
minutes before serving add seasonings, lemon juice, and currant 
jeUy; 



116 ECONOMICAL COOKERY 

Cook mushrooms in a little butter, parboil onions, and finish 
the latter in a little butter. Place hare on hot dish, pour sauce 
over, and serve hot, garnished with mushrooms and onions. 

Jugged Hare 

1 hare 1 sprig thjmie 

1 pound round steak 1 teaspoon grated lemon rind 

} pound fat bacon 1 bay leaf 

3 cups (li pts.) stock or water 1 carrot, sliced 
1 onion Forcemeat balls 

4 cloves 1 teaspoon salt 

1 small bunch parsley } teaspoon pepper 

Cut hare into joints and put them into deep earthenware dish, 
with alternate layers of steak and bacon cut into pieces. Pour 
in stock, add onion stuck with cloves, parsley, thyme, lemon rind, 
bay leaf, and carrot. Put cover on dish, then cook slowly two 
and one half hours. Add forcemeat balls during last half hour, 
and ten minutes before serving add seasonings. Serve in same 
dish. 

Forcemeat Balls, Parboil liver of hare, and chop it small with 
one foiu*th pound suet and three slices lean bacon, add one and 
one half cups bread crumbs, one half tablespoon chopped pars- 
ley, one half teaspoon salt, one fourth teaspoon pepper, pinch of 
th3rme and nutmeg, and one well-beaten egg. Shape into balls 
and use. 

Pigeons en Casserole 

4 pigeons 3 cups (1} pts.) stock or water 

} pound lean ham, diced 1 bunch herbs 

1 small onion 1 lemon 

4 tablespoons (1 oz.) flour Salt and white pepper 

4 tablespoons (2 ozs.) butter sub- 2 hard-<;ooked eggs, diced 
stitute 

Truss birds and cut them through in halves. Fry ham and 
onion in butter substitute to a pale brownish color in a casserole. 
Remove ham and carefully brown flour. Pour in stock and stir 
over slow fire until gravy boils. Add pigeons, ham, herbs, 
grated lemon rind, salt and pepper to taste. Cover casserole, and 
simmer until birds are tender. When finished, remove herbs, and 
add eggs and more seasonings if required. Serve hot in casserole. 



POULTBT AND QAMB 117 



. Pigeons with Spaghetti 

4 pigeons 1 bunch herbs 

} pound ham or bacon Stock or water 

1 carrot 1 teaspoon salt 

1 turnip i teai^)oon pepper 

1 onion 4 tablespoons (2 oas.) butter 

3 stalks celery } package spaghetti 

Singe, draw and clean pigeons, and truss them as for roasting. 
Clean vegetables and cut them into small pieces, place them in 
saucepan, add ham or bacon cut into small pieces, herbs, and 
enough stock or water to cover. Bring this to the boil and lay 
pigeons on top. Cover with greased paper and lid and cook on 
top of stove or in oven until pigeons are nearly ready. Then 
remove them, cut in halves, and place on greased tin. Strain 
stock in stewpan, remove grease, and pour over pigeons. Set in 
moderate oven and continue cooking, basting frequently, until 
pigeons are brown and liquid reduced to a glaze. 

Boil spaghetti in plenty of boiling salted water until tender and 
drain well ; add to it butter and seasoning?. Place pigeons on 
hot dish and put spaghetti round. 

Macaroni may be used instead of spaghetti if more convenient. 

Rabbit en Casserole 

1 rabbit 2 cups (1 pt.) boiling water or 

1 onion, sliced stock 

1 cup (4 02S.) bacon, diced 1 strip lemon rind 

1 bunch herbs 1 tablespoon flour 

1 teaspoon salt } teaspoon pepper 

Wash rabbit in tepid salted water to free it from blood, then 
cut in neat joints. Dry joints and dip them in flour. Put bacon 
in frying pan and fry a light brown, add rabbit and onion, and 
fry for a few minutes. Put all into a casserole, add herbs, stock, 
and seasonings, cover, bring to the boil, then simmer one hour. 
Take out herbs and lemon rind. Skim off all grease. Thicken 
gravy with two teaspoons flour, allow to boil, and serve in 
casserole. 






118 aCONOHICAL COOKSBT 



Rabbit Pie 

I 

1 large rabbit, or two small ones } teaspoon mace 

2 tablespoons (} os.) flour 2 hard-cooked eggf^ sliced 
1 teaspoon salt i pound ham or bacon 

i teai^x)on pepper Pastry 

Cut rabbit into joints, and remove top bone from 1^03. Mix 
flour with seasonings on a plate, roll in this the rabbit, and cut 
ham in slices; arrange alternately layers of rabbit, eggp, and 
ham in fireproof dish ; sprinkle a little salt and pepper over, and 
add one cup hot water. Cover with pastry, brush over with 
milk or beaten egg, and bake in hot oven one and one half 
hours. Stew rabbit bones with a little water, one small onion, 
blade of mace, a few herbs, and seasoning? of salt and pepper, 
and pour into pie. Serve hot or cold. 

Rabbit with Rice 

1 rabbit 2 cups (1 pt.) stock or water 
4 tablespoons (2 oss.) drippings 1} cups (f pt.) tomato pur6e 

2 tablespoons chopped onion 1 teaspoon salt 

1 oup (i lb.) rice i tea4>oon pepper 

Parsley 

Wash and clean rabbit, and cut it in neat joints. Melt drip- 
pings in a casserole, add onion and rice well washed and dried, 
and cook ten minutes without browning. Then put in rabbit 
and cook a few minutes longer, stirring constantly. Add stock 
and tomato pur^, season to taste, cover with lid, and simmer in 
oven or one side of the range until rice and rabbit are tender and 
nearly dry. Garnish with parsley and serve hot. 

Tomato purte is made by rubbing fresh or canned tomatoes 
through a sieve. 

Roast Capon with Piquante Staffing 

1 capon 3 c^ierkins, chopped 

3 cups (f lb.) bread crumbs 1 small green pepper, chopped 
i cup (1 giU) mild vinegar i teaspoon poultiy seasoning 
i cup (4 OSS.) butter substitute, 1 teaspoon salt 

melted ) teaspoon pepper 

1 cup (i pt.) olives, stoned and Giblet sauce 
chopped Cranberry jelly 



POTTLTBT AND GAMB 119 

Singe, draw, and truss bird same as chicken. Rub over with 
drippings, dust with salt, pepper, and flour. Mix crumbs with 
vinegar, add butter, olives, gherkins, green pepper, and season- 
ings. Place in the capon, put in a hot oven, basting frequently. 
When breast meat is tender the bird is sufficiently cooked. 
Serve on a hot plate garnished with parsley and accompany with 
giblet sauce and cranberry jelly. 



Roast Chicken with Oyster Stuffing 

1 chicken 1 tablespoon chopped pandey 

1 cup (i lb.) bread or cracker 2 teaspoons lemon juice 

cnunbfl 1 teaspoon salt 

i cup (2 on.) butter substitute, } teaspoon pepper 

melted 2 cups (1 pt.) oysters 

3 tablespoons oyster liquor 

Select a dry picked chicken, remove all pin feathers, singe well, 
wash inside and out, reject tips of wings, and cut off neck close 
to body. Dust inside of chicken with a little pepper, salt, and 
poultry seasoning. In a bowl put crumbs, add butter, parsley, 
seasonings, oysters cut in quarters, and oyster liquor. Mix 
and place in breast of chicken. Rub chicken over with olive 
oil or fat, dust with salt and pepper, and sprinkle thickly 
with flour. 

To truss the fowl for roasting : If a chicken, leave on the feet, 
which should be scalded and skinned ; if an older bird, cut off 
legs half-way to first joint, turn back pinions, run a skewer 
through them, catching the top part of the legs ; tie the bottom 
part of the legs together with white twine. Lay fowl breast 
down in dripping pan, set in hot oven, and cook from three 
fourths to one and one fourth hours, according to size; baste 
frequently with hot drippings, and about fifteen minutes before 
it is finished dredge with flour and brown nicely. Remove 
skewers and twine, place chicken on hot platter, and strain gravy 
over, or serve it in a gravy boat. To make the gravy, pour from 
roasting pan the fat, sprinkle in two teaspoons browned flour, 
add one cup boiling water, salt and pepper to taste, boil three 
minutee. 



120 BCONOMICAL COOKERY 

Roast Goose 

1 goose 2 apples, peeled 

Salt and pepper i cup (2 ozs.) bread crumbs 

1 small onion, chopped i teaspoon salt 

1 tablespoon chopped celery i teaspoon pepper 

1 teaspoon chopped parsley 4 tablespoons milk or cream 

2 tablespoons bacon fat Baked apples 

Currant jelly 

Singe goose, remove pin feathers, draw, and wash thoroughly 
in hot water. Remove all the fat that can be reached from under 
skin or inside. This may be saved and tried out. Season goose 
inside and out with salt and pepper. Chop heart and liver. 
Melt bacon fat, add heart, liver, onion, celery, and parsley. Add 
apples cut in cubes, crumbs, seasoningei, and milk. Stuff this 
into goose and truss. Dredge with salt, pepper, and flour. Roast 
in hot oven, basting frequently, and allowing twenty minutes to 
the pound. When well done and nicely browned, place on hot 
platter. Skim off fat in pan, stir in tablespoon of browned flour, 
add one cup hot water or stock, and boil five minutes. Strain 
and serve with baked apples and currant jelly. 

Roast Guinea Chicken 

1 guinea chicken 1 cup (i pt.) white grapes 

Drippings 2 cups (} lb.) bread crumbs 

Flour } cup (4 ozs.) butter substitute, 

Sidt and pepper melted 

Truss bird in shape, dust with flour, salt and pepper, and 
spread with plenty of drippings. Halve and seed grapes, add 
bread crumbs, butter, and seasonings to taste. Stuff bird with 
this forcemeat, then roast it for one and one half hours, basting 
frequently. 

Cook giblets in water to cover. When fowl is roasted season 
gravy with onion juice and parsley, add chopped giblets, and 
thicken with browned flour. Serve guinea chicken hot with 
grape jelly. 

To Broil a Young Guinea Fowl, Wash carefully and split 
down back. Wipe dry, flatten slightly, brush over with olive 



POULTRY AND «AME 121 

or cottonseed oil, dust with salt and white pepper, dredge with 
flour, and broil over a clear fire. Cook fifteen minutes, and place 
in a hot dish, pour over a brown gravy, and garnish with little 
mounds of mashed potatoes and watercress. 

Salmi of Duck 

1 large duck 1 onion, sliced 

4 tablespoons (2 ozb.) butter sub- 3 cups (1} pts.) stock or water 

stitute 1 teaspoon salt 

4 tablespoons (1 oz.) flour } teaspoon pepper 

Prepare duck, then roast it, and cook it rare. Cut it into 
joints and chop meat into pieces. Melt two tablespoons of the 
butter substitute, put in pieces of meat and onion, and fry 
brown. Then add stock, and sinmier one hour ; then strain it. 
Melt remainder of butter substitute in a saucepan, stir in flour, 
and add two cups of stock made from duck, season with salt and 
pepper, and simmer fifteen minutes. Add to it gravy from pan in 
wUch duck was roasted. Put joints of duck into this sauce and 
simmer twenty minutes. Place duck on hot platter and strain 
sauce over. Serve hot. 

Stewed Rabbit 

} pound fat bacon 3 cups (1) pts.) milk or water 

1 rabbit 1 smaJl bunch herbs 

1 onion, sliced 1 teaspoon salt 

4 tablespoons (1 oz.) flour } teaspoon pepper 

Cut bacon into squares, fry a nice brown color ; remove bacon 
from pan, leaving the fat ; joint rabbit, and fry quickly in fat ; 
remove rabbit and fry onion a light brown. Draw this to one 
side and brown flour, now gradually add water, and stir quite 
smooth; when boiling, add rabbit, bacon, and seasonings; 
simmer for one to one and one fourth hours or until rabbit is 
tender. Place pieces of rabbit on hot platter and strain gravy 
over. Serve hot. 

Venison Cutlets, Grilled 

8 venison cutlets Salt and pepper 

Butter 8 baked potatoes 



122 ECONOMICAL COOKIBBT 

Cut cutlets, one inch thick, from a well*hung neck of venison. 
Trim cutlets, but do not remove all fat. Season them with salt 
and pepper, and place them on a greased grill over a bright, dear 
fire. Turn them constantly while cooking, so as to retain gravy. 
The cutlets will take from twenty to twenty-five minutes to cook. 
Serve cutlets in a circular row on a hot dish with small piece of 
butter under each. Have potatoes ready and serve with the 
cutlets. 



CHAPTER XI 

VEGETABLES 

" The common growth of Mother Earth suffices me/' 

Thb cooking of vegetables is often undertaken with confidence 
by the most amateur and ignorant of cooks, because of a mistaken 
idea that "any one can cook vegetables." If those words 
were altered to '' any one with care and a little knowledge can 
cook vegetables," they would be true enough, as vegetables are 
really not difficult to cook, provided that a few rules are strictly 
adhered to. These rules are well worth learning, as there are 
few things more often spoiled by careless eooking and serving. 

Vegetables may be divided into two principal classes: 

1. Root vegetables, or those that grow below the ground; 
this class may include those which are not roots in the botanical 
sense, such as the potato, the onion, and the leek ; 

2. Green vegetables, or those that grow above the ground; 
this class includes those which are not actually green — leafy 
vegetables, such as marrow, beans, or peas. 

As a class, root vegetables are more nutritious, satisfying and 
starchy than green vegetables; they generally contain starch, 
the potato being the richest in this; or sugar, of which beets 
and carrots contain the largest proportion. They may be 
cooked and served as a separate vegetable, but a good many 
of them, especially onions, shallots, carrots, and turnips, are 
used as flavoring agents and added to such dishes as soups or 
stews. 

Scrub root vegetables well to remove earth and dirt. If 
young and thin skinned, scrape well; if older or with thick 
skins, peel. Place in water after peeling, until ready to be 
cooked, to keep a good color. Onions and leeks are exceptions ; 

123 



124 ECONOMICAL COOKBBT 

they must not be soaked in water, as some of their valuable oil 
is lost, but they should be covered and kept from the air. All 
root vegetables, except old potatoes, are cooked in boiling salted 
water in a covered saucepan, till tender. The mature starch 
grains in old potatoes are rendered softer if they are placed 
in just sufficient cold salted water to cover them, brought slowly 
to the boil, and then cooked gently till floury and unbroken. 
After draining, potatoes should be placed on the side of the fire 
in a saucepan with the lid tilted, to steam and dry. 

Green vegetables, with the exception of the pulses (peas, 
beans, lentils, etc.), are not so nourishing as root v^etables; 
their value lies in the fact that they contain valuable blood- 
purifying salts, and that the cellulose which forms their bulk is 
a preventive of constipation. 

Spinach and cabbage are especially rich in these salts. Peas, 
beans, and lentils are more nourishing than other green vege- 
tables, because they contain a higher proportion of flesh-form- 
ing food. 

Green vegetables should be prepared according to the kind of 
vegetable. 

Spinach should be picked over, the stem and back rib of each 
leaf removed, and then thoroughly washed in several waters. 
It is the only vegetable that is not cooked in plenty of water ; 
it requires only a tablespoon of water at the bottom of the pan, 
which, with the water that clings to the leaves, is sufficient to 
cook it in, as so much comes out of the spinach during cooking. 
Spinach should be thoroughly drained, chopped, or rubbed 
through a sieve, and then served with a garnish of hard-cooked 
eggi9. Almost all green vegetables are cooked fast in plenty of 
boiling salted water, in a large uncovered saucepan till tender. 
Drain the water thoroughly from green vegetables; cabbage 
and other greens should be pressed in a colander with a saucer to 
squeeze away all moisture. Peas may be tossed in melted butter 
after draining. Cauliflower is served very hot with a white 
coating sauce, j 

Asparagus k L'ltalienne 

1 bunch asparagus Buttered toast, or fried bread 

Italian sauce 



VEGETABLES 125 

Cut stalks of asparagus all one length, and scrape white 
part with a knife from tip downwards, then wash in cold water, 
being careful not to break green tips. Tie asparagus in bundles 
with tape, throw these into a saucepan with plenty of boiling 
water containing one teaspoon salt to each quart and boil 
twenty minutes; lift out and drain on a towel. Serve on a 
fried croiiton of bread or a thick slice of buttered toast. Pour 
over stalk ends a little Italian sauce, and serve remainder in a 
tureen. The asparagus may also be served with a white or 
melted butter sauce. 

The asparagus may be served cold with mayonnaise dressing. 
Some cooks reverse this and serve it hot with cold sauce, and 
cold with hot white sauce. White sauce to which the strained 
juice of one orange has been added is a delicious accompaniment. 

Baked Cabbage 

1 cabbage Butter 

Salt Fresh cracker crumbs 

Pepper Milk 

Slice cabbage thin as for salad, omitting all the heart. Put 
few small pieces of butter into bottom of greased baking dish, 
place in layer of cabbage, seasoning to taste, pieces of butter, 
and generous layer of cracker crumbs. Then add more cabbage, 
and so on, imtil desired amount is in dish ; then add milk untO 
it is one half inch from top of cabbage. Bake in moderate oven 
one and one half hours. 

Baked Beets 

6 beets Lemon Juice 

Olive oil I teaspoon salt 

} teaspoon pepper 

While the beet is not rich in nitrogen or fat, it contains nearly 
eight per cent, of sugar and a£Fords a welcome addition to our 
dietary. 

Clean beets carefully. They will not bear hard rubbing, 
which bruises the skin and makes them bleed and lose their 
pretty red color. Neither must the rootlets be cut or broken^ 
and the top leaves myst be cut above the crown., 



126 BCONOMICAL GOOKfiBT 

Place beets in a fireproof dish, cover with hot water, put in 
oven and bake, basting frequently. To know when they are 
done, press them with the finger instead of piercing them with a 
fork. When soft, rub off the skins. If plunged at once into a 
little cold water before peeling, the operation will be easier. 
Slice and serve the beets with a little oil, lemon juice, and 
seasonings. 

Summer beets will cook in one hour. 

Beets as a garnish are always effective unless used in com- 
bination with carrots, when a clash of color results. With the 
cool green of cucumbers, lettuce or endive, or the white of 
potato, they are exceedingly attractive. 

Boiled Cauliflower 

1 cauliflower * Boiling milk 

Boiling water Salt 

Cook cauliflower in water and milk, a little more than one 
half water, adding salt to taste. The vegetable will come out 
beautifully white and have a much richer flavor than when cooked 
in water alone. Cauliflower thus cooked and dressed with 
drawn butter, pepper, salt, paprika, and a dash of lemon juice 
makes a very palatable dish. Cooked as above and then chilled, 
cauliflower makes a very nice salad, served with crisp lettuce 
and sprinkled over with oil, lemon juice, pepper, and salt. 

Boiled Leeks 

1 bunch leeks Boiling water 

Salt and pepper to taste 

Leeks are excellent in soups, broths, etc., but they are also 
particularly good as a vegetable with or without sauce. 

They are also very little trouble to cook, though the cleansing 
of them is rather a difSlcult matter, as sometimes they are very 
gritty. 

Cut off the roots and trim off all but about one inch of the 
green tops. Wash them thoroughly. This is best done by 
allowing the cold water from the faucet to flow between the 
leaves, moving and opening them so that no part is missed. Put 



yi:aBTABLs» 127 

them in a saucepan with boiling water to well cover them and 
add one teaspoon of salt to each pint of water. Boil gently 
until they can be easily pierced with a skewer, which phould 
be run in at the top of the root end. They will probably take 
from twenty to thirty minutes, according to their size. Drain 
them well and arrange on a slice of toast in a vegetable dish, 
sprinkle with salt and pepper to taste, and serve with them 
plain melted butter sauce or egg sauce. 

Boiled Red Cabbage 

1 red cabbage 1 teaspoon salt 

1 cup a pt.) boiling water i cup (1 gill) vinegar 

4 tablespoons (2 ozs.) drippingps 1 haxd-cooked egg, cut in strips 

i teaspoon white pepper 3 lemon slices 

Cut cabbage in halves, removing outer leaves, and place in 
cold water ten minutes. Drain and cut out stalk and chop 
leaves fine. Put them into saucepan with water, drippings, 
seasoningB, and vinegar, and cook slowly untfl cabbage is ready 
and water is cooked away from it. Have it as dry as it can be 
without burning. Garnish with egg and lemon. 

Broiled Eggplant 

1 eggplant 1 tablespoon vinegar 

3 tablespoons (1) ozs.) butter, } teaspoon salt 
melted i teaspoon paprika 

Peel eg^lant, cut in thin slices, put into ice water, adding 
vinegar, and let stand five minutes. Take up, drain, wipe dry, 
dip in melted butter, sprinkle with salt and paprika, and broil 
over a clear fire. Serve hot. 

Another Method. Prepare eggplant in usual way, making 
slices twice the thickness for frying. Pare, drain, and place in 
clean towel under a weight until ready to cook. Dip in melted 
butter and broil under a clear flame, seasoning with salt and 
white pepper. Grill on both sides until tender, cover with 
melted butter sauce, and serve hot with quarters of lemon. 

Candied Sweet Potatoes 

4 sweet potatoes 2 tablespoons (1 os.) butter 
I cup (6 oas.) sugar or honey 1 cup (i pt.) water, hot 



128 ECONOMICAL COOKERT 

Boil potatoes until tender ; keep them hot. Put sugar into a 
saucepan and brown it, stirring constantly so that it will not 
bum; add butter and stir until mixed. Then add water and 
boil three minutes. Add potatoes and let cook until sirup is 
thick. Lift potatoes out carefully into serving dish, pour sirup 
over them, and serve hot. 

Sugared Sweet Potatoes 

Cut cold baked sweet potatoes into quarter-inch slices and 
measure one pint. Melt two tablespoons butter in a baking 
dish, and when hot lay potatoes in ; sprinkle the top with two 
tablespoons sugar or honey ; pour over two tablespoons vinegar 
and cook until brown and hot. Sweet potatoes are always better 
twice baked. 

Carrots k la Flamande 

1 bunch young carrots } teaspoon pepper 

2 tablespoons (1 oz.) butter sub- 1 pinch sugar 
stitute 1 egg, beaten 

i cup (1 gill) stock or water 2 tablespoons cream or milk 

i teaspoon salt 1 teaspoon chopped parsley 

Trim, wash, and scrape carrots, cut them'into halves or quarters 
and blanch them in slightly salted water, drain them and put 
them into a saucepan with butter substitute, toss over fire for 
a few minutes without allowing to get brown, add stock and 
seasoningp9, and cook until tender. Mix egg with cream and 
pour over carrots, add parsley, mix thoroughly and serve very 
hot. 

Carrots Braised 

10 carrots 1 bouillon cube, or little meat 
2 cups (1 pt.) brown stock, extract 

boiling 1 teaspoon salt 

1 tablespoon brown sugar i teaspoon pepper 

Trim carrots and scrape them and put into a saucepan with 
stock and sugar ; boO until tender, drain, and keep hot. Add 
bouillon cube or meat extract to gravy in pan, add seasonings, 
and reduce to one half. Dish carrots, pour gravy around them, 
and serve hot. 



VBGETABLfid 129 

Dressed Spinach 

2 quarts (8 cupe) spinach, cut 1 teaspoon salt 

fine } teaspoon paprika ' 

2 tablespoons (1 oz.) butter sub- i cup (1 gill) milk 

stitute 1 egg, beaten 

Wash and drain spinach and measure after cutting. Melt 
butter substitute in a saucepan, stir in spinach, add seasonings 
and milk, and simmer thirty minutes. At serving time stir in 
egg, let stand a minute, and serve hot. 

Fried Cauliflower 

1 cauliflower 1 gill (i cup) bread crumbs 

1 egg 1 gill a cup) grated cheese 

3 tablespoonfuls milk i teaspoonf ul curry powder 

Hot fat 

Trim, wash, and drain a cauliflower and cook it in boiling 
salted water until tender. Drain again and allow to get cold. 
Divide it into small portions. Beat up egg with milk, dip 
cauliflower in this, then toss in bread crumbs mixed with cheese, 
and fry in smoking hot fat to a golden color. Drain on white 
paper, sprinkle over with curry powder, put on to a hot platter, 
and serve hot. 

Kohl-rabi 

Kohl-rabi Cream sauce 

Kohl-rabi, or kale turnip, is a wholesome vegetable, and if 
cooked properly is much liked by all who are fond of cabbage or 
turnip. It belongs to the kale family, which was about the 
only vegetable in use among the early Saxons. The stem of the 
kale turnip swells out above the ground to the size of a large 
turnip, from which the leaves spring. The bulbous part is 
used for food. To cook it, trim off all the leaves, peel, cut into 
quarters, and boil in plenty of boiling salted water twenty 
minutes, or until tender. Drain and serve with cream sauce 
or one made as follows : Fry a small piece of bacon with a slice 
of onion until brown. Remove bacon and onion, add one cup 
hot water, salt and pepper to taste, and thicken with browned 
flour. 



130 fiCOKOMICAL OOOK&BT 

Parsnips Boiled 
2 pounds parsnips Salt and pepper 

Wash and scrape parsnips from thick end downwards; if 
old, it may be necessary to peel them thin. Throw them into 
cold water as they are prepared, to prevent discoloration. Then 
cut them into quarters and put them into plenty of boiling 
salted water, bring to boiling point, and cook slowly one hour, 
or until tender. Drain, sprinkle over with salt and pepper to 
taste, and serve hot. 

Parsnips are usually served as an accompaniment to salt fish 
or salt meat. 

F&r MoBhed Parsnips. Cook parsnips as above, and mash 
free from lumps or put them through a vegetable press or food 
chopper. Reheat this pur^ in a saucepan, add one tablespoon 
butter substitute and one tablespoon hot milk, and make 
thoroughly hot. Serve hot. 

Peas a Mattre d'H6tel 

2 cups (1 pt.) green peas i teaspoon pepper 

Salt 2 tablespoons (1 oz.) butter sub- 

1 tablespoon chopped parsley stitute 

1 bimch mint, chopped i teaspoon lemon juice 

Shell peas and throw into plenty of boiling water containing 
teaspoon of salt to each quart; boil fast until tender, then 
drain. Mix butter substitute, parsley, mint, pepper, lemon 
juice, and salt to taste ; stir into this peas, reheat them, shaking 
occasionally, dish, and serve hot. 

Some cooks reconmiend that, instead of the laborious work 
of shelling peas, after they have been washed and carefully 
picked over, the peas, while still in pods, be thrown into boiling 
water and cooked in that way. When the peas are done, the 
pods will rise to the surface of the water, while the peas will 
remain at the bottom of the pan. Peas cooked in this manner 
are said to have a much finer flavor than when cooked without 
the pods. 



YSGBTABLES 131 

Potatoes and Tuniipa 

1} cups (i pt.) mashed potatoes 2 tablespoons (1 os.) butter sub- 
1} cups (i pt.) mashed turnips stitute 

1 teaspoon salt 3 tablespoons hot milk 

i teaspoon pepper 1 cup (i pt.) boiled rice 

} cup (2 o».) grated cheese 

Mix potatoes, turnips, seasonings, butter substitute, and hot 
milk together ; turn into a greased fireproof dish, smooth the 
top, cover with rice, sprinkle over with cheese, and bake until 
thoroughly hot. S^rve on hot plates. 

Potatoes an Gratin 

8 potatoes 2 cups (1 pt.) milk 

1 tablespoon (} os.) butter sub- i teaspoon salt 

stitute i teaspoon pepper 

1 tablespoon flour i cup (2 oss.) grated cheese 

Peel potatoes, cut into dice and boil until tender in boiling 
salted water, and drain. Blend butter and flour in a saucepan 
over the fire, add milk and seasonings, and bring to boiling point 
and cook two miautes. Place potatoes in greased fireproof dish, 
poiir over sauce, sprinkle over with cheese, dot with tiny pieces 
of butter substitute, and brown in oven. Serve hot. 

The word gratin comes from the verb gratiner — to make 
brown — and implies a shallow dish, so that the whole contents 
shall be exposed to baking. All vegetables served au graUn 
should first be boiled, then placed in a shallow dish, covered 
with fine bread crumbs and butter, or with a sauce, and then 
baked in a hot oven until brown. Cauliflowers, carrots, parsnips, 
artichokes, salsify, and celery all lend themselves well to treat- 
ment au gratin. Tomatoes sliced, laid in a gratiin dish, covered 
with a layer of bread crumbs, chopped herbs, and seasomngs, 
with pats of butter on top, also make one of the very nicest of 
groHns. 

Potato Souffle 

2 cups (1 pt.) mashed potatoes 1 teaspoon salt 

2 eggs, separated } teaspoon pepper 

3 tablespoons cream or milk } teaspoon celery salt 



132 ECONOMICAL COOKBBT 

Put potatoes into a bowl, add yolks of eggs mixed with cream, 

and beat well together, then add seasonings and fold in stiffly 

beaten whites of eggs. Pour into a greased baking dish and 

bake in hot oven until top is browned and puffy. Serve very 

hot. 

Savory Greens 

1 peck greens 3 mediumnsized potatoes, grated 

Boiling water 2 slices bacon 

1 tablespoon salt } teaspoon pepper 

3 tablespoons vinegar 

Prepare greens, such as dandelions, beet tops, chard, etc., by 
washing carefully in salted water. Kemove all tough parts. 
Put greens in a large saucepan half full of boiling water with salt. 
Boil steadily until tender ; this will be in from five to twenty 
minutes, according to the maturity of vegetables. As soon as 
they are tender, drain, chop slightly, and return to fire. Now 
add potatoes. Fry bacon which has been cut in small squares, 
mix with other ingredients, and stir to keep from sticking. 
Season with salt, pepper, and vinegar, and simmer ten minutes. 
Serve piping hot. 

You will be surprised how delicious greens are when served 

in this way. 

Scalloped Celeiy 

1 bimch celery } cup (2 ozs.) grated cheese 

i cup (4 ozs.) butter substitute 1 teaspoon salt 

4 tablespoons milk } teaspoon pepper 

Browned bread crumbs 

Wash and scrape celery, cut in half-inch pieces, and cook un- 
covered in boiling, slightly salted water fifteen minutes ; drain, 
add butter substitute, milk, cheese, and 8easoning^, and mix 
well together. Divide mixture into greased scallop shells, or into 
a greased fireproof dish, sprinkle with bread crumbs, dot with 
butter substitute, and bake in a moderate oven twenty minutes. 

Serve hot. 

Stuffed Globe Artichokes 

8 globe artichokes 1 egg, beaten 

3 tablespoons chopped cooked 1 cup (i pt.) stock or water 

meat 1 tablespoon chopped parsley 

i teaspoon salt 1 small onion, chopped 

i teaspoon pepper I teaspoon grated lemon rind 



VEGETABLES 133 

Trim artichokeB and put them into a saucepan with plenty 
of boiling salted water; boil forty minutes, then drain. Put 
meat, seasonings, onion, and parsley into small pan and fry 
five minutes, remove from fire, and add egg. Remove centers 
from artichokes with a small knife, fill with mixture, put them 
into a pan, poiur stock around them, and simmer fifteen minutes. 
Dish carefidly, reduce gravy to one third by fast boiling, strain 
artichokes, and serve hot. The gravy may be thickened with a 
little flour if liked. 

Scalloped SaUdfy or Oyster Plant 

8 roots salsify 1 teaspoon lemon juice or vinegar 

1 cup H pt.) white, sauce i teaspoon celery salt 

i cup (2 oas.) butter substitute 1 tablespoon grated cheese 

Breadcrumbs 

Choose salsify not too large, wash it well, and soak for thirty 
minutes in cold water. Cut off one inch from end of staJk and 
scrape the rest lightly. Tie in bundles with tape and throw into 
cold water to which a little vinegar or lemon juice has been added 
— to prevent discoloration. Put them into a saucepan with 
enough boiling water to cover, add a little salt and a good squeeze 
of lemon juice. Drain well, cut in thin slices, and mix with 
celery salt, or a small piece of fresh celery finely chopped. 
Grease some scallop shells and sprinkle them with bread crumbs, 
put in a layer of prepared salsify, then a layer of sauce, then 
more salsify and more sauce. Sprinkle tops with bread crumbs 
and cheese, dot with butter substitute, and bake in a hot oven 
until browned on top. Serve hot with lemon slices. 

When salsify is cooked, it has a distinct flavor of oyster, hence 
the name oyster plant. It is like the parsnip in appearance, only 
much longer and thinner. 

Spinach Timbale 

l^cup (} pt.) cooked spinach i teaspoon paprika 

4 tablespoons (2 oseb.) butter sub- 2 egg yolks 

stitute 1 carrot, diced 

i cup (1 gill) cream or milk 1 turnip, diced 

i teaspoon salt } cup (1 gill) cooked peas 



134 BGONOMICAL COOKBBT 

Boil enough spinach to fill a cup when it is passed through a 
wire sieve. Put it while hot into a saucepan with butter sub- 
stitute, cream, seasonings, and egg yolks. Turn into greased 
mold, cover with greased paper, and steam one hour. Boil 
carrot and turnip until tender and toss with peas in a little 
melted butter. Turn spinach out on to hot dish and garnish 
with the cooked veget{tblee. 

Spinach is good in cases of stomach and kidney troubles, for 
djTspepeia and anemia. It is an excellent vegetable ; it purifies 
the blood and produces a healthy condition of the system. 

Stewed Endive 

2 heads endive 2 teaspoons butter substitute 

1 cup H pt.) stock or milk 1 teaspoon salt 

1 tablespoon cornstarch ) teaspoon pepper 

1 squeeze lemon juice 

Wash endive carefully, separating the leaves and removing 
stalks and any discolored parts. Then put them in boiling 
salted water and cook fifteen minutes. Drain and cut across in 
small pieces. Put endive into a saucepan, add stock or milk, 
sprinkle in the cornstarch, and stew slowly Mteen minutes. Add 
butter substitute and seasonings and serve hot* 

Stuffed Eggplant 

1 eggplant Butter 

Seasoned bread crumbs 2 poached eggi 

One eggplant is enough for a goodnsized family. Do not cook 
eggplant in any way without first removing its acridity by 
cooking in boiling salted water, which draws out the injurious 
principle solanina. To stuff, boil in salted water, just as it comes 
from the market, then drain and cut open lengthwise, scoop out 
center, mix with an equal quantity of nicely seasoned bread 
crumbs, divide into the two shells, dot with bits of butter, and 
bake in hot oven fifteen minutes. 

Place eggs on top and serve hot. If liked, a little grated 
cheese may be sprinkled over the top. 

Or, cut a good-sized eggplant in six slices, leaving skin on one 



VBGETABLB8 135 

side of each piece to hold slices together. Cook in boiling salted 
water ten minutes, then lay in iced water thirty minutes. 

Make an incision in each slice and fry all in smoking hot fat. 
Scoop out fleshy part of plant, stuffing pieces with a forcemeat of 
bread crumbs and sausage, or bread crumbs and chopped boiled 
ham, parsley, onion juice, salt, and pepper. Make these into a 
paste with one beaten egg or a little cream. Sprinkle soft bread 
crumbs and a little vegetable oil over the eggplant, then place 
it in a hot oven and bake until browned. 

Stuffed Onions 

6 medium-sized onions 2 hard-cooked eggs 

1 slice bread 1 tablespoon chopped paisley 
Milk 1 teaspoon salt 

4 tablespoons (1 02.) grated } teai^xwn pepper 

cheese 3 tablespoons cream 

White or brown sauce 

Remove centers from onions with a cutter. Blanch onions 
in boiling water, drain, and stuff them. Soak bread in milk, 
squeeze out milk, and mix bread with cheese, yolks rubbed 
through sieve, parsley, seasonings, and cream. Mix and divide 
into onions, dip in flour, and fry in smoking hot fat. Drain, pour 
sauce over, and garnish with chopped egg whites. 

Stuffed Peppers 

6 good-sized green peppers 1 egg, beaten 

4 cups (1 qt.) water } teaspoon salt 

2 tablespoons (1 oz.) drippings, } teaspoon made mustard 
melted 1 cup (4 ozs.) chopped cooked 

1 cup (4 ozs.) bread crumbs meat 

3 tablespoons milk or gravy 

Remove seeds and pith from peppers. Boil peppers in water 
fifteen minutes, then drain. Pour drippings over bread crumbs, 
add egg, seasonings, meat, and gravy. Mix well and divide 
into peppers. Bake in moderate oven until tender, serve hot. 

Another Method, Cut tops from eight green peppers, remove 
seeds, and fill with following mixture. Mix one cup boiled rice 
with one half pound each of beef and salt pork chopped fine, one 



136 ECONOMICAL COOKERY 

chopped onion, one beaten egg, one half teaspoon salt, one half 
teaspoon pepper, and use. Tie tops on with string and cook in 
tomato sauce until tender, serve hot. 

Stuffed Tomatoes 

7 tomatoes i teaspoon white pepper 

2 cups (1 pt.) cooked rice 4 tablespoons (2 ozs.) butter sub- 

1} teaspoons salt stitute 

i teaspoon paprika 1 cup (} pt.) milk or cream 

Cut slices off stem ends of tomatoes and remove pulp. Mix 
pulp with rice, seasonings, butter substitute, and milk. Fill 
tomato shells with mixture, replace " covers *\ place on greased 
tins, and bake in hot oven thirty minutes. Serve garnished 
with parsley. If liked, a little chopped, cold, cooked chicken 
may be added to mixture. Com or macaroni may be used in the 
same way. 

Squash Puff 

1 cup a pt.) boiled mashed 1 tablespoon butter substitute 
squash i teaspoon salt 

1 cup (i pt.) boiled mashed sweet } teaspoon pepper 
potatoes 2 eggs, beaten 

1 cup (} pt.) milk 

Mix squash and potatoes, add butter substitute softened, 
seasonings, eggs, and milk. Mix well, divide into greased, 
individual serving dishes, and bake in a hot oven until mixture 
is puffed and firm. Serve at once. 

Baked Squash Is Ddicious, Cut large squash in quarters and 
remove seeds. Place in moderate oven and bake until tender. 
Seraph into a bowl, add two tablespoons butter, one half tea- 
spoon salt, one half teaspoon pepper, and two tablespoons 
cream ; mash and beat until light. Put into greased fireproof 
dish, dot with small pieces of butter, reheat, and serve. 

Pumpkin may be cooked in the same way. 

Tomatoes and Brussels Sprouts 

4 ripe tomatoes, peeled 1 teaspoon salt 

i cup (4 ozs.) drippings i teaspoon paprika 

1 pound cooked Brussels sprouts 6 slices fried bacon 



1 Eaas. Page ISf. 



SrewEfi Endive. Page 134. 



R AND BiiresBL-i Sprodts S*lai>. Page I 



MtBsitMAr.i.r>w Friit Salai.. Par/e 143. 



Cabbage, Apple, ani> Nbt Salah. Pane 140. 



VEGETABLES 137 

Slice tomatoes and fry them in frying pan with one half of 
drippings. When done, remove to platter and keep hot. Melt 
remainder of drippings in same pan, add Brussels sprouts well 
drained, and fry them a few minutes. Add seasonings, turn on 
to hot dish, and garnish with tomatoes and bacon. 

Turnips Mashed 

Turnips Salt and pepper 

Drippings 

Wash the required number of turnips, then peel and boil in 
plenty of boiling salted water until tender. Drain and return 
turnips to pan, mash them with a fork until free from lumps, 
add salt and pepper to taste, a little dripping?, and, if liked, a 
pinch of nutmeg. Mix thoroughly and serve hot. One table- 
spoon hot cream added at the last will be found an improvement. 

Turnips are generally served with mutton. 



u 



CHAPTER Xn 

SALADS AND SALAD DRESSINGS 

An olive, capers or some better salad." 

Thbbjb are not many pleasanter dishes than salads when served 
in a pretty salad bowl or in individual dishes. For the benefit 
of the thrifty housewife it may be added that few things are more 
economical, as they utilize all sorts of scraps. 

Many people declare that the liking for salads is an acquired 
taste. It is an excellent taste to acquire! Salad greens have 
but little nutriment, but they are valuable, nevertheless, for the 
potash salts that they contain, as well as for their cooling prop- 
erties. 

Many housewives make but one kind of salad dressing to 
answer for each and all salads, forgetting that mayonnaise or a 
boiled salad dressing is much too heavy for many of the more 
delicate greens. Watercress especially demands a French dress- 
ing, and lettuce, endive, celery, and cucumber are equally good 
with it. 

In making a salad only the best oil and vinegar should be 
used, and the greens must not be soused with water, but, after 
washing, they should be thoroughly well drained, and tossed 
well in dry cloths or in a salad drainer to get rid of all the mois- 
ture. Never on any account cut up lettuce, but break the leaves 
into pieces of the desired size, and remember that the salad 
should not be drenched with the dressing, but just lightly tossed 
in it. It is a great improvement to plain salads to sprinkle 
them with some finely chopped herbs, such as parsley, chives, 
tarragon, etc. 

Fruit salads are always popular. A good fruit salad always 

J38 



8ALA.DS AND SALAD DBESSINGS 139 

makes a pleasant change from the plain, ripe fruit itself. It is a 
way of taking mixed things, with the maximum of benefit to the 
system. 

The gums, pectins, and fruit sugars contained in the natural 
fruits, their innate sulphur, most helpful of salts when in mixture 
with the different acids ; their quantities of iron, citrates, tar- 
trates, and other good saline constituents, make a proper mixture 
of them a very desirable matter. 

Nothing but the best fruit in perfect condition should be 
allowed to enter the salad bowl. No amount of disguise can do 
away with the permeating flavor of an inferior article. Fruit is 
plentiful, cheap, and good ; therefore there should be no tempta- 
tion to practice false economy by purchasing a poor quality. 

Orange, banana, and apple are excellent, as are also orange, 
banana, and pineapple, fresh or canned. The flavor of fruit 
salads may be improved by rubbing on the rind of a lemon one 
or two lumps of sugar, crushing these, and using them with a 
little powdered sugar. Bananas combine well with any kind 
of juicy fruit, and the following may be reconmiended : Bananas 
and apricots, both sliced, with a little chopped pineapple; 
bananas and stoned cherries, with orange flavored sugar; 
bananas and raspberries, with or without some red currants; 
bananas and strawberries, divided in halves or quartered, if 
very large. A greater number of fruits may be combined success- 
fuUy, such as bananas, stoned cherries, sliced pineapple, melon, 
peaches, apricots, seeded and skinned grapes, and apples and 
pears in thin slices. Red currants and strawberries, red and 
white currants and red raspberries mix well with thinly cut 
slices of apples, or with the ever useful banana. 

Banana Salad 

Bananas Chopped celery 

Crisp lettuce leaves Chopped nut meats 

Mayonnaise dressing 

Cut each banana in five lengthwise strips and place each on 
lettuce leaves in shape of a star. Sprinkle with celery and nut 
meats and cover lightly with mayonnaLse. 



140 ECONOMICAL COOKERY 

Beet and Cabbage Salad 

1 cup (} pt.) cooked beets, 1 cup (} pt.) cabbage, chopped 
chopped 1 sinall onion, chopped 

Mix beets, cabbage, and onion together thoroughly, cover 
with dressing, and garnish with crisp watercress and whites of 
eggs cooked hard and chopped. 

Salad Dressing 

1 teaspoon salt 2 egg yolks 

1 teaspoon mustard 1} tablespoons melted butter 

1} teaspoons sugar 6 tablespoons (} cup) evapo- 

i tablespoon flour rated milk 

} teaspoon red pepper 12 tablespoons (} cup) water 

4 tablespoons (i cup) vinegar 

For Dressing. Mix seasonings with flour, add yolks slightly 
beaten, butter, milk, water, and vinegar. Cook over slow fire 
until it thickens ; strain and cool. 

Bungalow Salad 

1} cups (1 pt.) apples, chopped 1 teaspoon mustard 

fine 1 teaspoon flour 

1} cups (i pt.) cabbage, chopped 1 tablespoon water 

fine 1 cup (} pt.) vinegar 

\ cup (2 ozs.) peanuts, chopped 1 tablespoon (} oz.) butter 

\ teaspoon celery salt 2 tablespoons (1 oz.) sugar 

2 egg yolks } teaspoon salt 

Mix apples, cabbage, nuts, and celery salt. Beat up yolks of 
eggs, add mustard and flour mixed with water. Pour vinegar 
into a saucepan, add butter, sugar, and salt, and bring to boiling 
point ; then add egg mixture and again bring to boiling point. 
Take from fire and let cool. Pour over salad and garnish with 
sprigs of parsley. 

Cabbage, Apple, and Nut Salad 

1 firm cabbage 5 apples, peeled and sliced 

1 cup (4 ozs.) walnut meats, 2 tablespoons lemon juice 

broken Boiled or mayonnaise dressing 

Parsley 



SALADS AND SALAD DBESSSIN08 141 

Remove center and outside leaves from cabbage, leaving a 
neat shell. Sprinkle lemon juice over apples, mix with nut 
meats, and fill into cabbage. Garnish with parsley and serve with 
boiled or mayonnaise dressing. 

Carrot Salad 

8 carrots i teaspoon salt 

1 egg 8 tablespoons vinegar 

1 pinch soda i teaspoon paprika 

4 tablespoons olive oil i cup (1 gill) whipped cream 

Parsley 

Wash carrots, put them in saucepan, cover with cold salted 
water, and cook slowly until tender. Drain and cover with cold 
water. Remove skins and serve covered with the dressing and 
garnished with parsley. Beat egg in upper pan of double boiler, 
add soda and oil slowly, beating constantly until egg thickens. 
Now add salt, vinegar, and paprika and cook over hot water 
until thick as cream, stirring constantly. Take from fire and set 
aside to cool. Mix with cream at serving time. 

Catxliflower and Bnsssels Sprouts Salad 

1 cooked cauliflower 1 cup (i pt.) cooked beans 

1 box Brussels sprouts, cooked A few radishes 

French dressing Boiled or mayonnaise 



Break cauliflower into flowerets and marinade these and 
Brussels sprouts with French dressing. Drain and arrange them 
in a salad dish, garnish with beans and radishes, and serve 
with boiled or mayonnaise dressing. 

Celery and Cheeae Salad 

8 stalks celery Crisp lettuce leaves 

} cup (2 ozB.) grated cheese Mayonnaise dressing 

2 pimientoes, canned red peppers Lemon slices 

Cleanse stalks of celery and cut four inches long. Chop 
pimientoes, mix with cheese, and fill into celery. Serve cold 
on lettuce leaves with mayonnaise and garnish with lemon. 
Small blocks of cranberry jelly are an improvement to celery 
salads. 



142 ECONOMICAL COOKEBT 

Codfish Salad 

1 thick slice codfish } teaspoonful pepper 

1 bunch herbs i teaspoonful mustard seeds 
6 tablespoonfuls olive oil Crisp lettuce leaves 

4 tablespoonfuls vinegar Tomatoes 

i teaspoonful salt Mayonnaise sauce 

1 peeled and chopped cucumber 

Steam the fish with the herbs for thirty minutes, or until the 
flesh separates from the bones. Remove the skin and bones and 
flake the fish. Beat up the oil, vinegar, and seasonings together 
and pour this dressing over the fish and cool. Arrange nests of 
lettuce leaves on a salad dish and fill with the fish. Have small 
chilled tomatoes or halves of larger ones scooped out and filled 
with the cuciunber and mayonnaise sauce. Place a tonoato cup 
at the top of each portion and serve. 

Cold Meat Salad 

2 cups (1 lb.) cold meat 1 green pepper 

I cup (2 ozs.) chopped celery 2 teaspoons chopped parsley 

1 cooked beet 5 tablespoons French dressing 

2 boiled potatoes Bermuda onions 

Cut potatoes, beet, meat, and green pepper into small, neat 
pieces. Mix them with parsley, celery, and] French dressing 
and serve very cold, garnished with thinly sliced Bermuda 
onions. 

Egg and Cabbage Salad 

1 white firm cabbage 1 sour orange 

6 cold potatoes 4 hard-cooked eggs 

1 cooked beet 1 cup (} pt.) tartare sauce 

1 onion, chopped Salt and pepper 

Boil cabbage until tender ; drain carefully, and press between 
two heavy platters imtil quite cold, then slice and mix with 
potatoes, beet, onion, orange cut in small pieces, and eggs cut 
in quarters. Place in a salad bowl, pour over the sauce, season 
to taste with salt and pepper, mix gently, and serve with any 
kind of cold roasted or boiled meats. 



SALADS AND SALAD DBES8INOS 143 

Individual Cheny Salads 

Lettuce leaves Peppermint extract 

WatercreBS Nut meats 

Mayomiaise dresBing GrystaUised ginger 

Red, white, green cherries Maishmallows 

Place lettuce leaf on salad plate. Make small nest of water- 
cress by winding it together and set nest in center of plate. 
Drop in next a tablespoon of mayonnaise. Take cover from 
bottle of green cherries and drop six drops peppermint extract 
into sirup the day before wanted. Drain the three kinds of 
cherries. Stuff green ones with small pieces of nuts, white 
ones with ginger, red ones with marshmallows cut. Place two of 
each color in each nest and chill before serving. 

Another Method. Take equal quantities of stoned white 
cherries and cooked and chilled string beans. Serve with 
dressing made of two tablespoons olive or vegetable oil, one half 
teaspoon salt, one fourth teaspoon each pepper and paprika, 
pinch of sugar, and four tablespoons of liquor from cherries. 
Blend well and pour over salad. 

Jenny Lind Salad 

6 bananas, diced i cup (2 on.) English walnut 

1 cucumber, diced meats, chopped fine 

1 cup (i pt.) seeded white grapes Mayonnaise dressiDg 

Crisp lettuce leaves 

Mix bananas, cucmnber, grapes, and nuts, moisten with 
mayonnaise, and serve on lettuce leaves with a few seeded 
grapes on top. 

Marahmallow Fruit Salad 

40 lb.) marshmallows i cup (2 on.) chopped nut meats 

Mayonnaise dressing 1 can pineapple, chopped 

1 can white cherries, stoned | cup (2 ozs.) chopped preserved 

ginger 

Mix marshmallows with mayonnaise and let stand twenty 
minutes. Just before serving add fruit and nuts and a little more 
mayonnaise. The mayonnaise should be made with less vinegar 
and more cream than usual. Or use following dressing instead 



144 ECONOiaCAL COOKERY 

of mayonnaise : Beat up one egg white to a stiff froth, add two 
bananas rubbed through a sieve, add two tablespoons each lemon 
and orange juice, three tablespoons sugar or honey, and four 
tablespoons whipped cream. Mix lightly and use. 

Orange and Date Salad 

Crisp lettuce leaves 1 package dates, stoned 

6 oranges French or mayonnaise dressing 

Line salad dish with lettuce leaves. Peel and slice oranges, 
lay slices on lettuce, add dates, and serve with salad dressing. 

Orange Salad 

An Orange Sahid that is delicious is made as follows: Cut 
six oranges in halves and remove pulp and sections. To pulp 
add four tablespoons sugar or honey, three tablespoons chopped 
mint, four tablespoons orange juice, and two tablespoons lemon 
juice. Chill and divide into glasses and serve witii a candied 
cherry on top of each. 

Oyster and Celery Salad 

24 large oysters Crisp lettuce leaves 

Diced celery Stiff mayonnaise dressing 

3 chopped sweet pickles 

Cook oysters in their juice till edges curl; drain and chill; 
cut each oyster in two, without cutting into soft part ; measure 
an equal quantity of celery and set on ice to crisp; mix the two, 
lay on lettuce leaves, cover with mayonnaise, and garnish with 
pickles. 

Pea and Sardine Salad 



1 can peas Mayonnaise dressing 

1 can sardines Crisp lettuce leaves 

2^ hard-cooked eggs, sliced 

Turn out peas and sardines and leave in cool place one hour. 
Drain well, mash fine, mix with mayonnaise, serve on lettuce, 
and garnish with eggs. 

The pea and sardine mixture is excellent for sandwiches. 



BALADS AND SALAD DRESSINGS 145 

Pepper, Nut, and Cheese Salad 

3 mediumndsed sweet green 1 package cream cheese 
peppers Crisp lettuce leaves 

1 cup (4 ozs.) English walnuts or Mayonnaise dressing 

pecans 

Seed peppers and allow to lie in cold water fifteen minutes, 
then drain and dry. Put nut meats through food chopper, 
mix with cheese, and stuff peppers. Cut peppers in thin slices 
and serve on lettuce leaves with mayonnaise. 

Pineapple Salad 

1 can pineapple, sliced and 3 tablespoons (li ozs.) sugar 

chopped 5 tablespoons vinegar 

1 cup (i lb.) chopped nut meats } tablespoon butter 

1 cup (i pt.) celery, chopped fine 1 pinch salt 

1 egg i cup (H gills) milk 

1 tablespoon flour Lettuce leaves 

Mix pineapple, nuts, and celery together and chill. Beat 
egg in upper pan of double boiler, add flour mixed with sugar, 
vinegar, butter, salt, and milk, and cook over hot water until 
thick. Take from fire, cool, and mix with salad. Serve on 
lettuce leaves. 

Potato and Cauliflower Salad 

2 cups (1 pt.) cold boiled potatoes 1 tablespoon celery salt 

2 cups (1 pt.) cold boiled cauli- 2 tablespoons (1 oz.) butter sub- 
flower stitute 

4 tablespoons vinegar 1 tablespoon made mustard 

Watercress 

Cut potatoes and cauliflower into small pieces and mix them 
well. Melt butter substitute in small saucepan, add vinegar, 
celery salt, and mustard ; heat to boiling point, pour hot over 
the salad, and serve very cold on a bed of cress. 

Potato Salad 

10 medium-sized potatoes, } lb. fat bacon 

cooked 4 tablespoons vinegar 

1 medium-sized onion, cut fine 1 cup (i pt.) cream 

1 stalk celery, cut fine 1 teaspoon salt 

} teaspoon pepper 



146 ECONOMICAL COOKERT 

Cut potatoes in slices, mix with onion and celery. If celery 
IS not available use celery salt. Cut bacon in dice and brown, 
add vinegar, cream, and seasonings, and mix well. Pour over 
potatoes, onion, and celery and toss lightly together. 

Prune Salad 

} pound prunes 1 teaspoon lemon juice 

} cup (2 ozs.) sugar { teaspoon salt 

1 cream cheese i teaspoon paprika 

} cup (2 ozs.) chopped nut meats Crisp lettuce leaves 

French dressing 

Wash prunes and soak them in cold water four hours. Cook 
until tender, add sugar, and cool. Remove stones. Mix cheese, 
nuts, lemon juice, and seasonings and fill prunes with this 
mixture. Chill and serve on lettuce with French dressing. 

Red Cabbage and Celery Salad 

1 red cabbage } teaspoon sugar 

1 head celery } teaspoon mustard 

1 egg i tea^)oon salt 

1 tablespoon olive oil } teaspoon pepper 

1 tablespoon wine vinegar 2 gherkins, shced 

Trim outside leaves off cabbage, cut inner portion into 
quarters, and remove from centers all stalks. Cut the rest into 
fine shreds, put into salad bowl, and add celery stalks cut in 
inch pieces. Beat up egg, stir in gradually oil, vinegar, and 
seasonings. Pour over cabbage and celery and garnish with 
gherkins. 

Tuna Fish Salad 

1 can tuna fish 2 hard-cooked eggs, cut in small 

1 smaU bottle stuffed olives pieces 

i cup (2 ois.) celery, chopped } teaspoon salt 
fine i teaspoon paprika 

2 green onions, out fine 1 cup (i pt.) salad dressing 

Lettuce leaves 

Flake fish, add olives, eelery, onions, eggs, seasonings, and 
salad dressing. Mix and serve on lettuce. 



QAJJLDQ AND SALAD DRESSINaS 147 

Winter Salad 

1 cup (} pt.) cold cooked turnips, 1 cup (} pt.) cold cooked pota- 

diced toes, diced 

1 cup (i pt.) cold cooked carrots, 1 tablespoon chopped parsley 

diced i cup (1 gUl) French dressing 

1 teaspoon grated horse-radish 

Arrange vegetables in salad bowl and sprinkle over parsley. 
Mix French dressing with horse-radish and pour over vegetables. 
Chill before serving. 

Buttermilk Dressing 

1 cup (i pt.) buttermilk } teaspoon salt 

2i tablespoons vinegar or lemon } teaspoon paprika 

juice i tea^xx)n white pepper 

Into a bowl pour buttermilk, add vinegar and seasonings, 
and beat until thick. Serve with peeled and thinly sliced 
cucumbers. If served on whole or peeled and sliced tomatoes, 
add one teaspoon grated fresh horse-radish. 

Sour Cream Dressing 

Beat one cup sour cream until light, add two tablespoons 
vinegar, one tablespoon lemon juice, one teaspoon each salt 
and sugar, and one fourth teaspoon each white pepper and 
made mustard. Beat untU thick and serve with salads. If liked, 
six tablespoons mushroom or tomato catchup may be added 
to dressing. 

French Dressing 

6 tablespoons olive oil or vege- } teaspoon pepper 

table oil 2 tablespoons vinegar or lemon 

i teaspoon salt juice 

Set a small bowl in dish of crushed ice and pour in oil, beat 
in seasonings, a little at a time, until well mixed, then add 
gradually vinegar or lemon juice and beat until thoroughly 
blended. Serve at once. 

This may be varied by adding a little onion juice, or by rubbing 
the bowl with a cut clove of garlic, or by adding a little grated 



148 ECONOMICAL COOKERT 

cheese, or yolks of hard-cooked eggs run through a sieve. A 
little prepared mustard or tomato pur6e is sometimes used to 
vary the flavor. 

Roquefort Dressing is made by mixing in one half ounce of 
Roquefort cheese. 

Chuiney Dressing is made by adding two tablespoons chopped 
chutney. 

Chiffonade Dressing is made by mixing two tablespoons each 
chopped parsley and chopped red peppers, one teaspoon chopped 
shallot, two hard-cooked eggs, — yolks and whites chopped 
separately, — one teaspoon salt, one half teaspoon black pepper, 
one fourth teaspoon paprika, five tablespoons olive oil, and two 
tablespoons vinegar. Chill and shake well before using on any 
green salad. 

Italian Dressing 

1 clove garlic 1 teaspoon salt 

} teaspoon paprika 1 tablespoon thick tomato 
} cup (1 giU) olive or vegetable catchup 

table oil 2 tablespoons tarragon vinegar 

Chop garUc and mash it with salt, paprika, and tomato 
catchup, then stir in, a few drops at a time, the oil. Beat until 
smooth and add vinegar, a little at a time. 

This, like French dressing, should be made over cracked ice 
and served at once. 

Mayonnaise Dressing 

1 teaspoon dry mustard 2 egg yolks 

i teaspoon fine salt 1 cup (i pt.) olive oil 

} teaspoon paprika Lemon juice 

} teaspoon onion juice 

The eggs and oil must be thoroughly chilled, and the bowl in 
which the mixing is done should be set in a pan of cracked ice. 

Mix mustard, salt, and paprika, drop in eggs, and beat with 
wooden spoon until mixed. Add oil, a drop at a time, beating 
steadily. When it becomes thick, add a little lemon juice, then 
alternate oil and lemon juice untfl all the oil is in. Two cups 
of oil may be worked in if enough lemon juice is used. Add 
onion juice and set on ice until required. 



SALADS AND SALAD DRESSINGS 149 

If this is to be used on fruits, the mustard and onion juice 
should be left out, and when ready to serve combine equal parts 
of whipped cream and mayonnaise. 

Good vinegar may be used in place of the lemon juice. 

A tartare sauce for fish and salads can be made by adding to 
some of this dressing a little finely chopped onion, pickles, or 
olives, one teaspoon chopped parsley, a little tarragon, and 
capers to suit one's taste. 

If the dressing curdles, start again with a clean bowl and an- 
other egg yolk. Add a small quantity of fresh oil, teaspoonful 
by teaspoonful, stirring all the while and adding the curdled 
dressing. In this way it need not be wasted, and the final results 
will be good. 

Rassian Dressing 

2 egg yolks } teaspoon paprika 

1 cup (i pt.) olive or vegetable 1 tablespoon finely chopped green 
oil pepper 

2 tablespoons lemon juice 1 chopped pimiento (canned red 
1 teaspoon mustard pepper) 

i teaspoon salt i teaspoon onion juice 

1 tablespoon chili sauce 

Beat eggs and add a few drops of oil at a time until mixture 
begins to thicken, then alternate oil and lemon juice, continue 
beating until all is used, and mix the seasonings and add. Chill 
and when ready to serve beat in the peppers, onion juice, and 
chili sauce. 

Salad Dressing That Will Keep 

1 teaspoon mustard 1 tablespoon (| oz.) butter, 

3 teaspoons sugar melted 

1 teaspoon salt 2 egg yolks, beaten 

1 teac^)Oon celery salt 1 tablespoon vinegar 

Mix dry ingredients in a saucepan, add butter, eggs, and 
vinegar, heat over hot water until it thickens, stirring all the 
time. Do not allow to boil. Bottle when cold, and it will keep 
some weeks. 

Another Method. Take one egg, two tablespoons vinegar, 
four tablespoons milk, two teaspoons oil or melted butter, 



150 BCONOMICAL COOKBBT 

one half teaspoon each of salt and mustard, and one fourth 
teaspoon pepper. If butter is used instead of oil, it is added 
just before taking from the fire. If oil is used, mix it thoroughly 
with the dry ingredients, then add the egg and beat for three 
minutes, then beat in the vin^ar for a minute. Add the milk 
and put the whole into a double boiler, cooking until thick and 
stirring all the while. Cook for, nearly ten minutes. This 
dressing can be bottled and kept in a cool place for one wedc or 
more. 



CHAPTER XIII 

PUDDINGS 

' " Variety is the mother of enjoyment." 

^All ingredients for puddingis should be fresh and of good 
quality. It is a false economy to use for them any materials 
that have been too long stored, as the slightest degree of musti- 
ness in any one of the articles will spoil all that are combined with 
it. Eggs should always be broken separately into a cup before 
they are added to the other ingredients, as a single bad one will 
occasion the loss of many when this precaution is neglected. 
The perfect sweetness of suet and milk should be especially at- 
tended to before they are mixed into a pudding, as nothing can 
be more offensive than the first when it is kept too long, nor 
worse in its effect than the curdling of the milk, which is the 
certain result of its being soured. 

Fruits should be cleaned with great care ; the rinds of oranges 
and lemons grated lightly off, that the bitter part of the skin may 
be avoided ; if pared, they should be cut as thin as possible. 

A very little salt improves all sweet puddings, taking off the 
insipidity and bringing out the full flavor of the other ingre- 
dients, but its presence should not be perceptible. 

Puddings are as a rule either boiled, steamed, or baked. When 
boiling puddings, the mold or bowl must be quite full, or the 
water will get in. Cover with a greased paper, then tie a cloth 
over the top, and tie the four comers of the cloth across. Place 
the pudding in a saucepan with boiling water to well cover, and 
keep the water boiling the whole time. If more water be added, 
it must be boiling. 

For pudding cloths, use material such as linen or cheesecloth. 
Puddings are ]i<;hter when steamed than when boiled, but a 
longer time must then be allowed for cooking, from one third to 

151 



152 ECONOMICAL COOKBRT 

* 

twice the time. In steaming puddings, have them at a miiform 
heat all the time, and be careful not to lift the lid off the pan for 
the first thirty minutes. When steaming a pudding, the mold 
need not be quite full, but it must be covered with a greased 
paper or lid to keep the water out. Very light puddings, such 
as custards or souffle, should be placed in a steamer. Puddings 
made of suet may stand in a saucepan with boiling water to 
come about a third the depth of the mold, taking care that the 
water does not boil over into the pudding. Most of the suet 
puddings, mixed a little softer, are excellent baked in a pudding 
dish. Cornstarch for puddings must be well cooked, from eight 
to ten minutes. Batters must be well beaten and allowed to 
stand for thirty minutes or longer before cooking, because the 
starch in the floiu' swells. Batter puddings should be put into a 
quick oven. Puddings composed principally of eggs aad milk 
should be gently cooked, as strong heat wiU cause them to curdle. 
When a pudding is served it should round out the meal, 
furnishing something that is lacking. If the meal has not con- 
tained enough starchy food, use a pudding made of bread, 
tapioca, rice, or com meal. 

Apple Custards 

2 cups (1 pt.) milk 1 pinch salt 

2 eggs, separated 1} cups (4) apples, grated 

3 tablespoons (1} ozs.) sugar 1 teaspoon lemon extract 

1 tablespoon cornstarch 1 tablespoon powdered sugar 

Heat milk to boiling point, then pour over sugar mixed 
with cornstarch, salt, and yolks of eggs. Let boil up just 
once. Into this stir apples and lemon extract. Divide into 
seven greased custard cups, cover with whites of eggs beaten 
to a stiff froth and sweetened with powdered sugar, and 
brown lightly in a quick oven. 

Apple Rolls and Sauce 

1 cup (} lb.) potato flour 1 tablespoon (} oz.) butter 

1 cup (} lb.) flour 1 teaspoon powdered nutmeg 

2 teaspoons baking powder 1 teaspoon powdered cinnamon 
2 tablespoons (1 oz.) lard 2 tablespoons brown sugar 

i cup (1} gills) milk 4 tart apples, diced 



PX7DDIN<)S 153 

Sift flours and baking powder into a bowl, cut and rub in 
lard, and make into soft dough with milk. Roll out on 
floured baking board, spread with butter, spices, and brown 
sugar mixed together, sprinkle over apples, wet edges with 
water, and roll up like jelly roll. Cut in slices, place them in 
a greased tm, cover with the sauce, and bake in a moderate 
oven thirty-five minutes. 

Sattce 

1 cup (} lb.) sugar or honey } teaspoon salt 

1 tablespoon (i oz.) butter 1 cup (} pt.) boiling water 

1 tablespoon potato flour } lemon and juice 

Put all ingredients into a saucepan, stir imtil boiling, and 
pour over apples. 

Baked Apples and Rice 

Good cooking apples Cream 

Boiled rice Nutmeg 

Salt Sugar 

Butter loe cream 

Pare and remove core from required amount of apples, 
place in greased fireproof dish, and fill centers with rice, 
season to taste with salt, butter, cream, and nutmeg. Sprinkle 
apples over with sugar. Pour in four tablespoons of boiling 
water and bake in slow oven till apples are tender. Serve 
with ice cream. Cold cooked tapioca may be used in place 
of rice. 

Baked Rice Padding 

4 cups (1 qt.) milk 1 cup (i lb.) seeded raisins 

5 tablespoons (2} ozs.) sugar or 1 teaspoon powdered cinnamon 
honey } teaspoon powdered mace 

3 tablespoons uncooked rice 2 tablespoons (1 oz.) butter sub- 

stitute 

Put milk into a bowl, add sugar, rice, butter substitute, 
raisins, and spices, and mix well together. Pour into a 
greased baking dish and bake one hour in a moderate oven. 



154 ECONOMICAL COOKEBT 

Another Method, Add to one cup cooked rice, two beaten 
eggs, and one half cup honey or sirup. Fill serving dish one 
half full of fresh fruit, cover with rice, and bake in moderate 
oven twenty minutes. Serve hot or cold with milk. 



Cherry Dumplings 

1 can cherries 2 teaspoons baking powder 

2 tablespoons (1 oz.) butter i teaspoon salt 

} cup (li ozs.) cornstarch } cup (1} gills) milk 

2 cups (i lb.) floiur 

Empty cherries into a saucepan, put on the range, then 
thicken with butter and cornstarch, adding a little sugar, if 
needed, imtil it has consistency of rich cream. Sift flour, 
baking powder, and salt into a bowl, stir in milk, and drop by 
spoonfuls into hot cherries. Cover and cook twelve to fifteen 
minutes. Serve hot. 



Chocolate Pudding 

1 cup (i lb.) sugar 1 egg, separated 

1 teaspoon flour 2 cups (1 pt.) milk 

3 tea^)oons cocoa 1 teaspoon butter 

i teaspoon vanilla extract 

Mix together sugar, flour, and cocoa in a small saucepan, add 
yolk of egg, and milk. Cook slowly ten minutes, stirring 
occasionally, take from fire, and stir in lightly well-beaten white 
of egg, butter, and vanilla. Pour into glass dish and serve cold. 

Dandy Orange Pudding 

Saucis 

3 cups (1} pts.) boiling water 1 tablespoon (} oz.) butter sub- 
I cup (6 ozs.) sugar or honey stitute 

2 large oranges 

Pour water into a saucepan, add sugar, butter, strained 
juice, and pulp of oranges. Boil ten minutes. 



PUDDINGS 155 



Batter 



} cup (4 ozB.) sugar or honey 2 teaspoons baking powder 

li;tablespoons(}oz8.) butter sub- 1} cups (6 ozs.) flour or Graham 

stitute flour 

} cup (1 gill) milk i teaspoon powdered mace 

Cream sugar and butter together, add milk^ flour sifted 
with baking powder, and mace. Beat well and drop by spoon- 
fuls into hot sauce. Bake twenty-five minutes; serve hot. 
Sufficient for six persons. This pudding is economical and 
delectable. 

Ginger Pudding witli Vanilla Sauce 

i cup (4 ozs.) butter or lard 3} teaspoons baking powder 

} cup f A ozs.) sugar or honey } teaspoon salt 

2 cups (} lb.) flour or Graham 2 teaspoons powdered ginger 
flour 1 cup (i pt.) milk 

1 egg, beaten 

Cream butter and sugar, add flour sifted with baking powder, 
salt, and ginger, then add milk, and egg. Mix well and turn 
into greased mold, cover with greased paper, and steam steadily 
two hours. Serve hot with sauce. 

Vanilla Saucb 

) cup (4 ozs.) sugar or honey 2 tablespoons (1 oz.) butter sub- 

1 tablespoon cornstarch stitute 

1 cup (i pt.) boiling water 1 teaspoon vanilla extract 

Mix sugar and cornstarch in pan, add water, and boil five 
minutes; take from fire, add butter substitute, vanilla, and 
serve. 

Individual Pineapple Trifles 

Sliced canned pineapple Whipped and sweetened cream or 

Slices stale white or sponge cake whipped evaporated milk 
i cup (2 ozs.) chopped nut meats Seeded raisins or preserved cher- 
ries 

Put rounds of cake on serving dish, place pineapple slices on 
top, fill centers of pineapple with nut meats mixed with a little 
pineapple sirup, top with cream, and decorate with raisins or 
cherries. 



156 ECONOMICAL COOKERY 

Jelly sponge 

2 cup8 (1 pt.) boiling water 2 egg whites 

1 package jeUy powder i cup (2 ozs.) sugar 

Pour water over powder and set aside to cool. Beat up 
whites of eggs to a stiff froth, beat in sugar, and gradually add 
cooled jelly. Beat fifteen minutes and serve in dainty glasses. 

Mountain Dew Pudding 

2 cups (1 pt.) milk 2 tablespoons cocoanut 

i cup (2 ozs.) sugar or honey i cup (2 ozs.) cracker crumbs 

2 eggs, separated i teaspoon lemon extract 

Mix milk with sugar, yolks of eggs, cocoanut, crumbs, and 
extract. Turn into greased pudding dish and bake in moderate 
oven thirty minutes. Beat up whites of eggs to stiff froth, beat 
in tablespoon of sugar, and spread over top. Serve hot with 
sauce. 

Satice 

i cup (3 ozs.) brown sugar Hot water 

} cup (4 ozs.) sugar or honey i teaspoon lemon extract 

1 tablespoon cornstarch i teaspoon vanilla extract 

Mix sugars with cornstarch in a saucepan and cook with 
enough water to make thick sauce. Flavor with lemon and 
vanilla. 

Oatmeal Pudding 

2 cups (1 lb.) leftover oatmeal i teaspoon salt 
porridge 1} cups (} pt.) milk 

} cup (2 ozs.) bread crumbs } teaspoon powdered nutmeg 

i cup (3 ozs.) Sultana raisins 2 eggs, beaten 

1 apple, chopped } cup (4 ozs.) sugar or honey 

Mix oatmeal with bread crumbs, add raisins, apple, salt, milk, 
nutmeg, eggs, and sugar. Bake in a well-greased fireproof dish 
in a moderate oven twenty minutes. Serve with hot milk, or 
sweet sauce. 

Old-fashioned Indian Pudding 

4 cups (1 qt.) milk } cup (7 ozs.) molasses 

4 cups (1 qt.) skimmed milk 1 teaspoon salt 

1 cup (8 ozs.) sugar, brown or 1 teaspoon powdered ginger 

white } cup (3 ozs.) com meal, scant 



PUDDINGS 167 

Pour one half of each kind of milk into a saucepan and place 
on the stove. When milk is hot, add sugar mixed with molasses, 
salt, ginger, com, and a little of the cold milk, stirring steadily 
until it is well thickened. Turn into a well-greased pudding dish 
or casserole and bake in a slow oven. Add remainder of milk at 
two periods, two hours apart during the baking of eight hours. 
Whipped cream sweetened, flavored, and chilled adds to the 
pudding when served. 



Persimmon Pudding 

1 quart ripe persimmons 4 cups (1 qt.) milk 

1 cup a lb.) sugar or honey 2 teaspoons baking powder 

2 eggs 1} cups (6 ozs.) flour 

1} cups (6 ozs.) potato flour 

Pick over and steam persimmons, rub through a colander, and 
to pulp add sugar and eggSj beat three minutes, then add alter- 
nately milk and flours sifted with baking powder. Mix thoroughly 
and pour into a well-greased pudding dish or pan. Bake in 
moderate oven one and one half hours. This pudding will 
keep like fruit cake. 

Plum Pudding 

1 cup (4 ozs.) floiur 1 cup (4 ozs.) chopped candied 

2 cups (} lb.) currants citron peel 

2 cups (i lb.) chopped suet 1 teaspoon baking powder 

2 cups (12 ozs.) brown sugar 2 teaspoons ginger 

2 cups (i lb.) bread crumbs 1 teaspoon cinnamon 

1 cup (i lb.) seeded ndsins 1 teaspoon nutmeg 

1 cup (6 ozs.) Sultana raisins 1 teaspoon salt 

1 lemon 2 eggs» beaten 

1 cup (} pt.) milk 

Sift flour into a bowl, add fruits, suet, sugar, crumbs, grated 
rind and strained juice of lemon, baking powder, spices, salt, 
eggs, and milk. Mix well, pour into greased mold, cover with 
greased paper, and steam steadily six hours. If divided into 
two puddings, five hours will be long enough to steam. Turn 
out and serve with hot milk or hard sauce. 



158 ECONOMICAL COOEEBT 

Pnine Roll 

2i cupe (10 OZ8.) flour or whole 2 tablespoons (1 os.) shortening 

wheat flour Cold water 

2 tablespoons (1 oz.) sugar 1 pound prunes, cooked and 

2 teaspoons baidng powder sweetened 

i teaspoon salt 1 teaspoon grated lemon rind 

Milk or cream 

Into a bowl sift flour, sugar, baking powder, and salt ; cut and 
rub in shortening and mix to soft dough with cold water. Divide 
into two equal parts and roll out to about one half inch in thick- 
ness. Spread stoned primes on dough, sprinkle with lemon rind, 
roll up like jelly roll, and moisten edges with cold water. Have 
juice of prunes boiling in goodnsized pan, place in the two rolls 
side by side, and bake in moderate oven three fourths of an hour. 
Slice and serve with milk or cream. 

Prune Whip 

2 cups (1 lb.) prunes 2 egg whites 

i cup (4 ozs.) sugar or honey i teaspoon salt 

1 cup (4 ozs.) chopped English 1 teaspoon lemon juice 

walnut meats Thin custard 

Wash prunes and boil imtil tender, then stone and chop fine, 
add sugar and nuts, and fold in stiffly beaten whites of eggs, add 
lemon juice and salt. Turn into greased pudding dish and bake 
in slow oven twenty-five minutes. Serve with thin custard made 
from yolks of eggs. 

Dates may be used instead of prunes. 

Rhubarb Shortcake 

} cup (4 ozs.) shortening 1 cup () lb.) sugar or honey 

1 egg, beaten i teaspoon salt 

1 cup a pt.) sour cream or i teaspoon soda 

buttermilk 2 cups (8 ozs.) flour 

Rhubarb sauce 1 cup (4 ozs.) com flour 

Cream shortening and sugar together, add egg, salt, cream, 
soda, and flours. Turn out on floured baking board, divide in 
two pieces, roll out, and lay on greased tins. Bake in hot oven 
twenty minutes. Split open and fill with rhubarb, stewed. 



PUDDINGS 169 

Sice and Date Pudding 

} cop (4 ozB.) rioe 2 eggs, beaten 

4 cups (1 qt.) milk 1 cup (i lb.) dates, stoned 

1 tablespoon (} os.) butter sub- 3 tablespoons sirup or honey 
stitute Cocoanut 

Put rioe into a double boiler with milk and butter substitute 
and cook until all the milk is absorbed. Add eggs, dates chopped, 
and sirup or honey. Pour into a greased mold, cover with 
greased paper, and steam gently two hours. Turn out, cover 
with cocoanut, and serve with milk. 

Rolled Oats Pudding 

2 cups (1 pt.) cooked rolled oats 1 egg, beaten 

1 cup (i pt.) milk } teaspoon salt 

i oup (4 02S.) sugar or honey 1 tea8|x)on vanilla extract 

2 teaspoons cornstarch i cup (3 ozs.) Sultana raisins 

2 tablespoons cream } cup (2 ozs.) cocoanut, chopped 

Mix oats with milk, add sugar, cornstarch dissolved in cream, 
egg, salt, extract, and raisins. Tiun into greased pudding dish, 
sprinkle over with cocoanut and bake in slow oven forty-five 
minutes. Serve hot with hot milk or cream. 

Strawbeny Shortcake 

2 cups (i lb.) flour 4 tablespoons (2 ozs.) butter sub- 

2 cups (i lb.) com flour stitute 

4 teaspoons baking powder 1} cups (} pt.) milk 

i teaspoon salt Strawberries 

Sweetened cream 

Sift flours, baking powder, and salt into a bowl, cut and rub 
in butter substitute, and make into soft dough with milk. 
Divide into two pieces, pat or roll out, and place in two greased 
pie tins and bake in hot oven twelve to fifteen minutes. When 
done, slit with a fork, butter both halves, cover lower half with 
generous layer of perfectly ripe, fresh strawberries, which should 
be plentifully sweetened and allowed to stand fifteen minutes 
before using. I consider it a decided improvement to crush 
berries enough to let juices escape so that they mingle with 
sugar. Place other half of shortcake on top of this, in an in- 



160 ECONOMICAL COOKBRT 

verted position, crust down, cover with berries, adding a generous 
sprinkling of sugar at last. Serve with cream. Raspberries 
may be used in the same way. 



Strawberry Ring 

1 box ripe strawberries 6 ozs. (i cup) sugar 

1} tablespoons (i oz.) powdered i lemon 

gelatine 1 cup (i pt.) whipped cream or 

1 cup (} pt.) hot water whipped evaporated milk 

Dissolve gelatine in water, add strained lemon juice, sugar, 
and one half of strawberries rubbed through a sieve. Pour into 
wet ring mold and place in refrigerator until firm. Turn out, 
fill center with cream, and decorate with remaining strawberries. 

Sliced Peach Shortcake 

2 cups a lb.) flour or Graham 6 tablespoons (3 ozs.) butter sub- 
flour stitute 

} cup (2 ozs.) sugar i cup (1 gill) milk 

} teaspoon salt 2 cups (1 pt.) sliced peaches 

4 teaspoons baking powder Meringue or whipped and 

i teaspoon powdered mace sweetened cream 

Into a bowl sift flour, sugar, salt, baking powder, and mace. 
Sift twice, then cut and rub in shortening. Stir in milk, 
turn out on well-floured board, and divide in two pieces. Roll 
out and place one layer on greased pie tin, dot with butter, place 
second layer over it, and bake in hot oven twenty to twenty- 
five minutes. Split and butter cake, put together, and cover 
with meringue and peaches. 

Steamed Shortcake 

1} cups (6 ozs.) flour or Graham 3 tablespoons (li ozs.) shortening 

flour 1 egg, beaten 

} teaspoon salt i cup (1 gill) water 

2 teaspoons baking powder 1 tablespoon (} oz.) sugar 

Fresh or canned fruit 

Sift flour once, then measure and sift again with salt and 
bakmg powder. Cut and rub in shortening, then add egg and 



Hick *«d Date Pdddinc. Page 139. 



\ 



StBAwnKUBT Kisi;. Page 1 



hi 



PUDDINGS 161 

water. Mix and turn into a small, well-greased pan, sprinkle 
over sugar, and steam one hour. Split open, fill, and cover 
with any kind of fresh or canned fruit. 

Wildwood Pudding 

6 apples 1 cup (4 ozs.) flour or Graham 

1 cup (4 ozs.) chopped nut meats flour 

1} cups (10 ozs.) sugar, brown or 1 teaspoon baking powder 

white 1 tablespoon (} 0£.) butter 

2 tablespoons lemon juice i cup (1 gill) orange juice 
2 eggs, beaten } cup (1 gill) honey 

1 cup (i pt.) boiling water 

Gore, peel, and slice apples into buttered pudding dish. Over 
them sprinkle one half of the nuts, three fourths cupful of the 
sugar, and half of lemon juice. Beat butter with remainder of 
sugar, add one egg, orange juice, and flour sifted with baking 
powder. Pour this batter over apples and bake in moderate 
oven thirty-five minutes or until brown. Serve with sauce made 
as follows : 

Into small saucepan put honey, remainder of nuts, lemon juice, 
and egg ; add boilmg water and bring to boiling point, stirring 
constantiy. 

Steamed Meat Padding 

1 pound beef 6 tablespoons stock or water 

4 sheep's kidneys 1 teaspoon salt 

1 tablespoon flour } teaspoon pepper 

Suet pastry 

Trim away all skin and superfluous fat and cut meat into 
strips. Split kidneys, remove skin and inside fat, and cut into 
small cubes. Line greased mold or basin with suet pastry which 
has been rolled out to one fourth inch thickness. Fill up with 
meat, kidneys, seasonings, flour, and stock ; cover with a lid of 
suet pastry, then cover with a greased paper and steam steadily 
four hours. One chopped onion may also be added for flavoring. 
Wlien pudding is ready, turn out and serve with hot gravy. 

This dish is one that commends itself especially to the busy 
housewife, for if the pudding is made directly ^ter breakfast 



162 ECONOMICAL COOKEBT 

there is a long morning free for household duties, for the steamer 
needs no attention beyond the addition of a little boiling water 
now and then. Meat puddings need not necessarily be made of 
beef. Mutton puddings are excellent — neck of mutton can be 
utilised in the same way, and is particularly good when layers of 
sliced onions and potatoes alternate with meat. Rabbit cooked 
in a pudding is the most economical way of serving it. Onions 
and herbs make excellent flavoring, or it can be varied by rolling 
the joints in mixture of cuny powder and flour before adding 
water. Old poultry which is too tough for anything but soup 
making can be rendered eatable in a pudding. 



CHAPTER XIV 

SWBBT Ain> SAVORT SAUCES 

" It provoketh a fine appetite if sauce your meat be by.'' 

It IS an art to make a really good sauce — an art not sufficiently 
cultivated by the majority of cooks, yet one worthy of cultivation, 
for by means of a good sauce many ordinary dishes can often 
be redeemed from the commonplace. 

A smooth, well-flavored sauce is not so very difficult to manu- 
facture if a little care and thought are bestowed upon it. It 
need not be rich and elaborate, but it must be thoroughly blended 
and cooked; one seasoning must not unduly predominate 
over another, and it must be suitable for the dish with which 
it is to be served. 

Sauces have several uses : They may supply some food defi- 
ciency in the dish; they may help to counteract the extreme 
richness of a dish ; and they may simply act as an appetiser to 
an otherwise somewhat insipid dish. Sauces are economical, 
for they make whatever they are served with go farther. A 
little rather expensive fish, served in plenty of comparatively 
inexpensive sauce, will go a long way, and at the same time taste 
a great deal better for the addition. The same is true of meat, 
vegetables, and puddings. Left-overs can be heated up in 
fresh sauce, and will become hot and tempting dishes. The 
aims in sauce making are: to produce a weU-flavored sauce, 
to make it of the right consistency, and to keep a good color. 

Sauces are qualified as follows : 

1. Sauces thickened with butter and flour cooked together 
to form a roux, either white or brown. Plain white and brown 
sauces, known as foundation sauces, and all the variations of 

163 



164 ECONOMICAL COOKEBY 

the above obtained by the addition of extra, distinctive season- 
ings, such as parsley, onion, capers, egg?, etc. 

2. Sauces thickened with eggs, either cooked or uncooked. 

3. Sauces thickened with a little blended flour or cornstarch, 
after the flavor of various ingredients has been extracted by 
long simmering. 

4. Vinegar combined with oil, ^ggs, or cream. 

5. Miscellaneous sauces. 

Apple Sauce 

1 cup a pt.) apples, chopped 1 cup (i pt.) water 

4 tablespoons (2 ozs.) sugar or 1 tablespoon lemon juice 
honey } teaspoon powdered nutmeg 

Cook apples in water imtil soft, add sugar and flavorings, and 
cook until sugar is dissolved ; rub through a sieve and use. 

If liked, one tablespoon potato flour, or cornstarch, or arrow- 
root may be added to above mixture. 

Another Method. Cook one cup brown sugar and one cup 
water imtil it is a sirup, then add ten chopped apples and one 
tablespoon lemon juice, and cook until apples are soft. 

Bread Sauce 

2 cups (1 pt.) milk 1 teaspoon salt 

i cup (2 ozs.) bread crumbs i teaspoon pepper 

1 onion } teaspoon paprika 

4 cloves 2 tablespoons (1 os.) butter sub- 

stitute 

Put milk into double boiler, add bread crumbs, and cook forty 
minutes; add onion stuck with cloves, seasonings, and butter 
substitute, and cook until onion is tender ; then remove onion 
and rub sauce through a sieve. Reheat and serve hot with 
roast fowl or roast game. 

Brown Sauce 

4 tablespoons (2 ozs.) butter sub- 4 tablespoons (1 oz.) flour or 

stitute cornstarch 

1 tomato, sliced 1 cup (i pt.) brown stock or 

1 carrot, sliced water 

1 onion, sliced Salt and pepper 



SWEET AND 8AV0BT SAUCES 165 

Melt butter substitute, add tomato, carrot and onion, and 
fry until well browned, then stir in flour and cook until well 
browned also ; add salt and pepper to taste and stock or water, 
and stir and cook eight minutes ; rub through a sieve, and it is 
ready for use. 

Caper Sauce 

2 tablespoons (1 oz.) butter sub- 1 cup (} pt.) boiling water 

Btitute 3 tablespoons chopped capers 

2 tablespoons (} oz.) flour 1 tablespoon vinegar 

2 tablespoons (i oz.) barley flour } teaspoon salt 

Blend butter substitute and flours in saucepan until smooth, 
stir in water, and when boiling, add capers, vinegar, and salt, 
cook eight minutes, and use. 

Chocolate Sauce 

2 squares (2 ozs.) chocolate 2 cups (1 pt.) hot water 

4 tablespoons (2 ozs.) sugar or 4 tablespoons (1 oz.) cornstarch 
honey Cold milk 

Melt chocolate with one half cup of the hot water, then add 
sugar or honey and remainder of hot water. Moisten cornstarch 
with sufficient milk to make it thickness of thin cream, add this 
to chocolate, and stir till sauce boils and thickens. 

Ariother Method. Into upper pan of a double boiler put one 
fourth cup sugar or honey, one egg yolk, one cup milk, pinch of 
salt, one teaspoon butter, one half teaspoon vanilla extract, and 
two squares of chocolate or three tablespoons cocoa. Cook 
over hot water, stirring constantly until spoon is coated. Serve 
hot or cold. 

Cranberry Sauce 

4 cups (1 qt.) cranberries } teacup (} gill) water 

2 cups (1 lb.) sugar 

Pick over and wash berries. To these add water and cook 
until broken to pieces, stirring often to prevent scorching. When 
berries are done add sugar, stir until it is dissolved, take from 
fire immediately, and rub through strainer into wet chilled mold. 
Put into a cool place until serving time. 



166 BCONmilCAL COOKBBT 

Another Method. Put one pint sugar and one cup water into a 
saucepan and allow it to boil five minutes, remove from fire and 
stand five minutes. Wash one quart cranberries^ add them, and 
boil five minutes with lid on pan ; remove from fire and stand 
five minutes, keeping lid on pan. 

Jellied Cranberries 

Take four cups cranberries, two cups sugar, and one cup water. 
Wash cranberries, removing any that are imperfect. Put them 
into a porcelain-lined pan, sprinkle sugar over them, and pour 
water gently over. Cook slowly, and when they reach boiling 
point, cover few moments, then imcover and cook gently 
until tender. Pour into a wet mold. 

Cucumber Sauce 

1 cucumber . 1 tablespoon cooked spinach 

2 tablespoons (1 ok.) butter sub- 1 cup (i pt.) white sauce 
stitute Salt and white pepper to taste 

2 tablespoons cream 

Peel cucumber and cut it into thin slices. Put these into a 
small saucepan with butter substitute and spinach, and stew 
slowly fifteen minutes, stirring frequently. Then rub as much 
as possible through a sieve and return to a clean saucepan. Add 
sauce, seasonings, and cream and stir until hot. 

Custard Sauce 

1 egg, beaten 1 pinch salt 

i cup (1 gill) milk i teaspoon vanilla or lemon 

1 tablespoon sugar extract 

Beat up egg, add milk, sugar, and salt, pour into a pitcher, 
stand in boiling water, and stir with a wooden spoon imtil it 
thickens ; then add flavoring, rub through a sieve, and use. 

Foamy Sauce 

1 cup (i pt.) milk i cup (} lb.) sugar 

2 egg whitw, beaten 1 orange rind and strained juice 



SWSET AND SAVORY SAUCES 167 

Heat milk. Beat egg whites unt3 stiff, beat in sugar, and 
continue beating until smooth; add milk, rind, and juice of 
orange, continue beating until foamy, then use with puddings. 

Another Method. Cream four tablespoons butter substitute 
with three fourths cup sugar in a saucepan, pour over them one 
half cup boiling water, stir until sugar is dissolved, remove from 
fire, and when cool fold in stiffly beaten whites of two egg?, 
strained juice of two oranges, and one tablespoon lemon juice. 
Beat until light and foamy. 

Fresh Beixy Sauce 

1} cups (i pt.) starawberries, 1 cup (i lb.) sugar 

peaches, or apricots | cup (4 ois.) butter substitute 

1 egg white, beaten 

When cooked puddings or boiled diunpUngs are used in hot 
weather, they can be given a summery touch by serving with a 
fresh berry sauce. These berry sauces are also good when 
poured over slices of sponge cake and topped with whipped 
and sweetened cream. 

Mash fruit. Beat butter substitute and sugar to a cream, 
add white of egg; beat until very light, then stir in fruit, and 
serve immediately. 

Hard Sauce 

4 tablespoons (2 ozs.) butter } teaspoon vanilla extract 

i cup (4 ois.) sugar 1 tablespoon brandy or fruit juice 

Beat butter until creamy, add sugar, and beat until frothy. 
Flavor with vanilla and brandy or fruit juice or any other pre- 
ferred flavoring. Chill and serve, lightly sprinkled with 
powdered nutmeg. 

If liked, the stiffly beaten white of one egg may be added to 
the sauce. 

Lobster Sauce 

2 tablespoons (1 oz.) butter sub- i cup (1 gill) white stock or hot 

stitute water 

4 drops onion juice 2 egg yolks 

i bay leaf Pounded lobster coral 

} teaspoon pepper 2 tablespooas shopped lobster 

i lemon meat 



168 ECONOMICAL COOKERY 

Lobster sauce is delicious with any white-fleshed fish. Stir 
together one tablespoon of the butter substitute with onion, 
bay leafy pepper, and strained lemon juice. Add stock or water 
and stir over hot water until butter melts. As soon as very hot, 
take from fire and stir a little of the mixture into beaten yolks, 
add rest of sauce and return to fire. Stir constantly five minutes, 
add remainder of butter, lobster meat, and one half pounded 
coral of a lobster. 

Mannalade Sauce 

1 cup (} pt.) boiling water 2 tablespoons cold water 

2 teaspoons cornstarch 1 tablespoon sugar or honey 

3 tablespoons marmalade 

Have boiling water in a small saucepan, add cornstarch 
moistened with cold water, stir over fire until it boils, then add 
sugar and marmalade, and use when very hot. 

Horse-radish Sauce 

4 tablespoons grated horse-radish } teaspoon pepper 

1 teaspoon salt 1 teaspoon mustard 
} teaspoon sugar 2 teaspoons vinegar 

4 tablespoons cream 

Mix horse-radish with vinegar, and let stand thirty minutes ; 
then stir in gradually the other ingredients, adding cream last. 

Italian Sauce 

2 tablespoons (1 oz.) butter sub- 1 onion, chopped 
stitute 1 bimch herbs 

2 tablespoons (i oz.) flour 1 bay leaf 

2 tablespoons (i oz.) barley flour 2 button mushrooms, chopped 
1 cup (i pt.) white stock 2 tablespoons cream 

Salt and pepper 

Melt butter substitute, stir in flours and when smooth add 
stock and stir until boiling; then add onion, herbs, bay leaf, 
mushrooms, cream, salt and pepper to taste, and simmer slowly 
twenty minutes. Rub through a sieve and use. 



SWEET AND SAVORY SAUCES 169 



Lemon Sauce 

1 cup (i pt.) water 2 lemons 

2 tablespoons (i oz.) cornstarch 2 tablespoons (1 oz.) sugar or 

honey 

Pour water into a small saucepan, add grated rinds of lemons, 
and bring to boiling point. Mix cornstarch smoothly with 
strained juice of lemons, stir into the boiling water, then add 
sugar or honey, and let sauce simmer six minutes. Serve hot 
with puddings. 

Mint Saace 

3 tablespoons chopped mint 1 tablespoon sugar 
i cup (1 gill) vinegar 1 pinch salt 

Put mint into a tureen with sugar and salt and pour over 
vinegar, stirring it well. The sauce should be made two hours 
before it is wanted. If the vinegar is very acid, one third of 
water may be used to dilute it. 

Another Method. Drop one tablespoon olive oil on to three 
tablespoons freshly chopped mint, add one tablespoon sugar and 
one half cup vinegar. Serve with lamb. 

Molasses Sauce 

1 tablespoon flour I cup (1 gill) milk 

2 tablespoons molasses } cup (1 gill) water 

Mix flour with molasses in small saucepan, add milk and 
water, stir until sauce boils, and cook two minutes. This sauce 
goes well with a boiled pudding in which there is not much 
sugar. 

Another Method, Pour one cup water into a saucepan, add one 
tablespoon lemon juice and three tablespoons molasses or sirup. 
Bring to boiling point, boil five minutes, and strain. A little 
ginger or other spice may be added if liked. 

Mustard Sauce 

1 tablespoon flour or cornstarch } cup (1 gill) milk 
) cup (1 gill) water 2 teaspoons thick-made mustard 

) teaspoon yine^ 



170 ECONOMICAL COOKERY^ 

Put flour into small saucepan, add gradually milk and water, 
and stir until boiling. Add mustard and vinegar, stir carefully, 
and beware of curdling. 

' Another Method. Melt two tablespoons butter substitute 
in small saucepan, add one teaspoon each flour and dry mustard, 
and mix smooth. Pour in three fourths cup stock or water, stir 
until boiling, and cook three minutes. Add pinch of salt, two 
teaspoons vinegar, and one tablespoon cream. Serve hot with 
grilled fish. 

Piquante Sauce 

4 tablespoons vinegar 1 tablespoon chopped gherkin 

1 teaspoon chopped onion 1 cup (i pt.) brown sauce 

1 tablespoon chopped capers 2 teaspoons chopped parsley 

Into small saucepan put vinegar, onion, capers, and gherkin 
and simmer until vinegar is reduced to half the quantity. Pour 
in brown sauce, bring to the boil, add more seasoning if necessary 
and parsley. Serve with boiled mutton, veal, calf's head,, or 
any meat that is lacking in taste. 

Rose Sauce 

1 large red beet 1 lemon 

2 cups (1 pt.) water 2 cups (1 lb.) sugar or honey 

1 teaspoon rose extract 

Peel beet and cut into thin slices ; put it into saucepan with 
water and thinly pared rind of lemon. Sinmier thirty minutes ; 
strain, return liquid to pan, add sugar and strained juice of 
half lemon. Cook five minutes and add rose extract. When 
cold, put it into small bottles and seal. This sauce keeps well 
and may be used with all kinds of sweet puddings and ice creams. 

Savory Jelly Sauce 

1 tumbler red currant jelly 1 tablespoon mushroom or to- 

1 teaspoon Worcestershire sauce mato catchup 
i teaspoon salt } teaspoon pepper 

Melt jelly in small saucepan, add sauce, catchup, and season- 
ings, and mix thoroughly. Serve hot with chops or other meats. 



8W1BBT AND fiAVOBT fiAUCOB 171 

AnMer Method. Melt one half tumbler wild grape jelly, add 
one half cup brown gravy or sauce, and season with catchup, 
salt, pepper, and red pepper. 

Sour Cream Sauce 

2 tablespoons (1 os.) butter sub- 1 cup (} pt.) sour cream 
stitute } teaspoon salt 

4 tablespoons (1 oz.) flour or } tesspoon pepper 

potato flour 

Melt butter substitute in small saucepan, smoothly stir in 
flour, pour in cream, stir until boiling, and cook three minutes ; 
add seasonings, and, if liked, a dash of vinegar, a suitable addition 
of lemon juice, chopped gherkins or capers, grated cheese or 
anything else preferred. 

This sauce is suitable for serving with fish or v^;etables. 

Another Method. Bring one cup sour cream almost to boiling 
point, then add four tablespoons flour moistened with one half 
cup cold water, and stir until miicture cooks five minutes ; season 
to taste with salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg, take from fire, 
and stir in beaten yolk of one egg. This latter may be omitted 
if liked, while the nutmeg may always be replaced by vinegar, 
lemon juice, or whatever else may be deemed advisable. 

Sweet Melted Butter Sauce 

3 tablespoons (1} ozs.) butter sub- 2 cuiw (1 pt.) milk 
stitute 2 tablespoons (1 os.) sugar 

4 tablespoons (1 oz.) flour or 1 teaspoon lemon juice 
potato flour 

Melt butter substitute in a small saucepan, add flour, and stir 
with wooden spoon until smooth. Then add milk and stir over 
fire until sauce thickens and boils eight minutes. Add sugar and 
lemon juice and strain before using. 

Ttiickened Gravy 

2 tablespoons (1 oz.) drippings 1 cup (| pt.) water or stock 
4 tablespoons (1 oz.) flour or 1 teaspoon salt 

cornstarch } tea^)oon celery salt 

i teaspoon pepper 



172 ECONOMICAL COOKERY 

Pour away fat from roasting pan, leaving two tablespoons, 
add flour or cornstarch, and mix it over fire until smooth and 
brown ; next draw pan to side of fire and pour in water or stock, 
and stir over fire again until boiling. Simmer eight minutes, 
skim well, and add seasonings. Strain before using. This 
gravy is generally preferred for roast game, poultry, or rabbit. 

Clear Gravy 

For all simple roasts a clear imthickened gravy is the best. 
Pour away fat from pan and reserve it for future use. Add one 
half cup water and with an iron spoon rub down any glaze which 
adheres to side of pan. Boil five minutes, add salt and pepper 
to taste, and remove any grease from surface with white paper. 
Strain a little of gravy over joint, and pour remainder into sauce- 
boat. It is awkward for the carver if the dish is made too full. 
Serve hot. 

Brown Gravy 

Melt four tablespoons butter substitute in a saucepan, add one 
chopped onion, and fry until brown ; then add two tablespoons 
flour and one tablespoon soy bean flour and fry until nicely 
browned ; add salt and pepper to taste, one cupful boiling water, 
or stock, or water in which vegetables were boiled, stir and cook 
five minutes, and it is ready. Strain if desired. 

Tomato Gravy 

1 can or 4 tomatoes, sliced 1 teaspoon salt 

2 tablespoons (1 oz.) butter sub- i teaspoon pepper 
stitute 2 teaspoons flour 

1 slice onion 1 clove 

1 cup () pt.) water 

Fry tomatoes in butter substitute with onion eight minutes, 
add seasonings, flour, clove, and water, boil fifteen minutes, rub 
through a sieve and use. 

For cooking purposes there is perhaps no vegetable which will 
lend itself to such a variety of treatment as the tomato. 



SWBBT AND SAVORY SAUCES 173 

Tomato Sauce 

1 tablespoon (j 02.) butter sub- 1 bunch herbs 
stitute 3 large tomatoes or i can to- 

1 tablespoon chopped ham or matoes 

bacon 1 tablespoon cornstarch 

i small onion, chopped 2 cups (1 pt.) stock or water 

2 teaspoons chopped parsley 1 teaspoon salt 

i teaspoon white pepper 

Melt butter substitute, add ham and onion, and fry a few 
minutes; now add p^arsley, herbs, tomatoes, cornstarch 
moistened with water, and seasonings. Simmer fifteen minutes, 
strain and use. If fresh tomatoes are used, they must be cut 
in small pieces. 

White Sauce 

2 tablespoons (1 oz.) butter sub- 1) cups (3 gills) milk 

stitute 1 teaspoon salt 

4 tablespoons (1 oz.) flour or , } teaspoon pepper 
cornstarch 

Melt butter substitute in a saucepan, add flour, and mix with 
a wooden spoon until perfectly smooth. Cook for a few minutes 
over the fire but take care that it does not brown, then draw 
pan to one side, add milk and seasonings, and return to fire; 
stir constantly imtil boiling and cook five minutes longer. 

If liked, two tablespoons cream and one teaspoon lemon juice 
may be added just before using. 

To make a sweet sauce, omit seasonings and add one table- 
spoon sugar or honey and one half teaspoon of vanilla or lemon 
extract, or a little powdered nutmeg or ginger. 



99 



CHAPTER XV 

ICE CREAMS AND ICES 

" A thousand different shapes it bears, 
Comely in thousand shapes appeaisJ 

Icm GRSAM is one of the simplest dishes to prepare, providing 
always that one has a good freezer. Another advantage ioe 
cream has over a large number of desserts is that it is very easily 
digested, and with few exceptions the most delicate invalid 
can partake of it vnith impunity. Ice cream is not a luxury. It 
costs no more to make than the everyday puddings and pies 
and is much more healthftd. 

An infinite variety of desserts can be easily made with a 
freeser. Almost anything agreeable to the taste and adapted 
for a drink or a dessert, if frozen, has an added delicacy. Ices, 
sherbets, and frappds are very refreshing, inexpensive, and easily 
prepared. 

A good general rule for vfoier ices is to boil together two cups 
sugar or honey and one and one half pints water five minutes, 
then stand aside to cool. When cold, fruit juice may be added 
in the proportion of a pint of the juice to above of sugar, or 
honey, and water. 

A water ice is a fruit juice sweetened, diluted with water, and 
frozen. One measure of salt to three of ice. Be sure to pound 
the ice very fine. 

A sherbet is a water ice to which is added a small quantity of 
dissolved gelatine or sti£9y beaten egg whites. One measure 
of salt to three of ice. 

A frappi is a water ice frozen to the consistency of mush. Use 
equal parts of salt and ice. 

174 



MiKiNi; PiQuiNTB Hauc-e. I'oge 170. 



MlKINli MOLASShS SAUCt. I'illje !IJ9. 



Apple Ice Ckeau. Pd'je 



Feacu ICB Cbeaj 



ICB CREAMS AND ICB8 175 

A punch is a water ice to which is added spirit and spices. One 
measure of salt to three of ice. 

A sherbet, strictly speaking, is frozen punch, though the name 
is often given to a water ice where several kinds of fruit are 
used. One measure of salt to three of ice. For ice cream, one 
measure of salt to three of ice. For a numsae equal parts of salt 
and ice. Bock salt should be used in all pases. 

If you wish to mold ices, have mold ready when you remove 
dasher from freezer can. Rinse mold in cold water, fiU quickly 
with mixture, filling every part of mold and pressing down well 
with a wooden spoon. Lay piece of waxed paper over mixture, 
large enough to project beyond edges when lid is on, then place 
mold in ice and salt. Four parts of ice to one part of salt. 
Cover well, and let ripen for two hours or more. 

The following is a novel way of serving ice cream : Place a 
small tin mold full of cold water to freeze, by placing in a pan 
of cracked ice and salt, so that the cold approaches from the 
sides and bottom. Then, when a thin frozen shell is formed, the 
mold is removed, and a perfect glass of ice remains, to be filled 
with ice cream or fruit ices. 

Apple Ice Cream 

2 pounds apples 1 lemon 
1 cup a pt.) water 1 orange 

1 inch cinnamon stick 2 cups (1 pt.) cream or evapo- 

1 cup (i lb.) sugar or honey rated milk 

2 cuiw (1 pt.) custard 

Cor6, peel, and cut up apples and put them into saucepan with 
water, cinnamon, sugar, grated rinds and juice of orange and 
lemon. Cool untfl perfectly soft, rub through a sieve, and when 
cool, add cream and custard. Freeze and serve in dainty glasses. 

Brown Bread Ice Cream 

li cups (5 ozs.) dried brown } teaspoon salt 

bread crumbs i cup (6 ozs.) sugar or hon^ 

3 cups (li pts.) evaporated milk i teaspoon lemon extract 
3 cups (li pts.) water 1 teaspoon vanilla extract 

Soak bread crumbs in milk and water twenty minutes, then 
rub through a sieve, add salt, sugar, and extracts, and freeze. 



176 ECONOMICAL COOKERY 

Caf 6 Frapp6 

4 cups (1 qt.) strong black coffee 2 cups (1 pt.) double cream or 

1 cup (i lb.) sugar or honey whipped evaporated milk 

1 teaspoon vanilla extract 

Strain and cool coffee and add whipped cream, sugar, and 
vanilla. Turn into a freezer, pack in ice and salt, and let 
ripen two hours. Serve in tall glasses with lady fingers. If 
liked, whipped and sweetened cream may be piled on top of 
each glass. 

Coffee Mousse 

2 eggs 4 cups (1 qt.) cream whipped, or 
i cup (} lb.) sugar or honey evaporated milk whipped 

1 cup (i pt.) strong coffee 1 teaspoon vanilla extract 

Beat eggs and sugar or honey until thick, put them with coffee 
into a double boiler, and cook until mixture thickens. When 
cold, add cream and extract. Pack in mold and allow to ripen 
four hours. 

Chocolate Ice Cream 

1} squares (1} ozs.) chocolate, 1 cup (} pt.) water 

unsweetened 4 cups (1 qt.) cream or evapo- 
1 cup (i lb.) sugar or honey rated milk 

1 pinch salt 2 teaspoons vanilla extract 

Put chocolate into upper pan of a double boiler over hot water, 
add water, and stir until mixture is smooth. Remove from fire, 
and add cream, sugar, salt, and vanilla. Dissolve and freeze, 
using three parts crushed ice to one of rock salt. Serve in dainty 
glasses with a spoonful of whip(ped and sweetened cream on top. 

Cereal Ice Cream 

2 cups (1 lb.) sugar or honey 4 cups (2 pts.) milk, lukewarm 
2 eggs, beaten 1 teaspoon lemon extract 

2 cups (1 pt.) cooked cereal } teaspoon powdered nutmeg 

Beat sugar and eggs until light, add cereal and milk, strain and 
cool, then add extracts. Freeze and serve in dainty ice-cream 
cups. 



IGB CREAMS AND ICES 



177 



Cranbeny Frapp6 



4 cups (1 qt.) cranberries 
} teaspoon baking soda 
H cups (12 ozs.) sugar or honey 
2 egg whites, beaten 



li cups (i pt.) whipi)ed and 

sweetened cream 
1 cup (i lb.) finely chopped nut 

meats 



Cook cranberries in just sufficient water to prevent burning. 
Crush fruit, and when quite tender take from the fire and stir 
in soda and sugar. Cook until sugar is dissolved, then strain 
into a bowl. When cold add whites of eggs and freeze to the 
consistency of a soft snow. Then mix in cream and nut meats 
and continue to freeze until smooth and firm. Allow to ripen 
one hour. Serve in sherbet glasses. 



Frozen Banana Custard 



4 bananas 

2 teaspoons powdered gelatine 
4 tablespoons sugar 

3 tablespoons boiling water 
3 cups (1} pts.) milk 



2 eggs, beaten 

1 cup (i pt.) whipped cream or 

evaporated milk 
1 teacqMon lemon extract 
Nut meats 



Put gelatine into a saucepan, add egg^, water, sugar, and milk, 
stir until they thicken, but do not allow to boil, then cool. 
Add bananas rubbed through a sieve, cream, and extract. 
Freeze and serve in glasses, with a nut meat on top of each 
portion. 

Frozen Rice Padding 



} cup a lb.) rice 

2 cups (1 pt.) milk 

i cup (3 ozs.) brown sugar 

2 eggs, beaten 



1 cup (i pt.) cream 
1 teaspoon lemon extract 
1 teaspoon vanilla extract 
Stewed fruit 



Wash rice and cook in boiling salted water fiifteen minutes, 
drain and put in double boiler with milk and sugar, cook until 
rice has absorbed milk. Add cream, eggs, and extracts and 
cook for a few minutes without allowing it to boil. When 
cold, freeze and allow to ripen one hour. Serve with stewed 
fruit 



178 ECONOMICAL COOKERY 



Fruit Sherbet 

3 lemons 2 cups (1 lb.) sugar or honey 

1 orange 4 cups (1 qt.) water 

} cup (1 gUl) shredded pineapple 1 egg white 

Bring sugar and water to boiling point with several thin 
pieces of lemon and orange rinds and boil ten minutes; cool 
and add strained lemon and orange juice, and pineapple. When 
almost frozen, add egg white stiffly beaten. 

Grape Juice Water Ice 

1 tablespoon powdered gelatine 2 cups (1 lb.) sugar or honey 

1 cup (i pt.) hot water 2 cups (1 pt.) grape or currant 

2 cups (1 pt.) cold water juice 

1 lemon 

Dissolve gelatine with hot water, add cold water, sugar, grape 
or currant juice, and strained lemon juice. Freeze and serve 
with cake or sandwiches. 

Another Method. Boil one cup water and one half cup sugar 
five minutes, remove from fire and beat until cold, add stiffly 
beaten whites of two eggs, grated rind one orange, one fourth 
cup strained orange juice, and one tablespoon lemon juice 
and freeze. 

Lemon Ice Cream 

3 lemons 1 can condensed milk 

1 orange 2 cups (1 pt.) water 

2 tablespoons cornstarch 

Grate rinds from lemons and orange, strain juices into milk, 
and add one cup of the water. Dissolve cornstarch with remain- 
ing water and pour into lemon mixture, cook eight minutes, and 
allow to become cold. Freeze and serve in glasses. 

Maple Mousse 

I cup (1} gills) maple sirup 2 eggs, separated 

1 cup (i pt.) double cream 



ICE CREAMS AND ICES 179 

Reduce maple sirup to one half cup by boiling and cool 
slightly. Pour over beaten yolks of eggs, beating constantly. 
Beat up cream and whites of eggs, bind them with custard, and 
pour into wet mold. Cover and bury in ice and salt five hours. 

Sufficient for one quart. 

Maple Not Ice Cream 

1 cup (3 OSS.) brown sugar 1 tablespoon cold water 

2 eggB, separated 3 cups (1} pts.) cream or whipped 
8 tablespoons maple sirup evaporated mUk 

} teaspoon vanilla extract 8 cups (2 qts.) milk 

1 junket tablet 1 cup (4 oss.) chopped nut meats 

Beat up yolk of eggs, add whites beaten to a stiff froth, cream, 
milk, sugar, maple sirup, vanilla, and tablet dissolved in water. 
Put in a warm place until junket thickens mixture, then turn 
into freezer, and when slightly frozen add the nut meats. Freeze 
and let ripen one hour. 

Milk Sherbet 

6 cups (3 pts.) milk 2} cups (18 ozs.) sugar or honey 

5 lemons 

Strain lemon juice on to sugar and freeze ten minutes, add 
milk, and finish freezing. Milk will ciurdle if added to juice 
and sugar before it is ice-cold. Serve in sherbet glasses decorated 
with pieces of preserved cherries or preserved ginger. 

Orange Ice Cream 

2 eggs, separated 4 oranges 

i cup (4 ozB.) sugar 1 cup (} pt.) cream 

Beat up egg yolks, add sugar and strained orange juice, cook 
over hot water until thick; remove, and when cool, fold in 
stiffly beaten whites of eggs, and cream whipped. Freeze. 

Orange Parf ait 

1 cup (} lb.) sugar or honey 2 cups (1 pt.) cream, whipped 

1 cup (i pt.) water 1 cup (i pt.) strained orange 

2 egg whites, beaten juice 

Orange sections 



180 ECONOMICAL COOKERT 

Boil sugar and water until it threads, or at 218^ F. on candy 
thermometer. Pour on to stiffly beaten egg whites, fold in cream, 
and add orange juice. Turn into mold, cover and pack in 
crushed ice and salt, and allow to stand four hours. Remove 
from mold and decorate with orange sections. 

Or, to four cups whipped cream, add one cup sugar dissolved in 
one cup strained orange juice. Fill into mold, cover, and pack in 
ice and salt two and one half hours. 

Oswego Ice Cream 

1 cup (} pt.) milk 2 cups (1 pt.) double cream, 
1 teaspoon arrowroot whipped 

1 tablespoon cream i teaspoon almond extract 

} cup (6 ozs.) sugar or honey } teaspoon rose extract 

Scald milk, add arrowroot dissolved in tablespoon of cream, 
cook ten minutes, add sugar. Stir well and let cool, fold in 
whipped cream, add extracts, and freeze. 

Another way to serve ice cream is as follows : Any color or 
flavor of ice cream can be served in this manner. Form cream 
into balls and then roll in chopped cocoanut until well covered. 
Serve on paper doilies on plates, with a pretty blossom laid by 
each snowball for contrast. 

Peach Ice Cream 

1 can peaches 2 eggs, beaten 

1 cup (i pt.) milk i teaspoon salt 

} cup (i lb.) sugar 1 teaspoon lemon juice 

1 cup ii pt.) whipped cream 

Rub enough of the peaches through a sieve to make two cups. 
Make a custard with milk, sugar, eggs, and salt. When cool, 
add peaches, lemon juice, and cream. Freeze and serve in ice- 
cream cups with one peach half on top of each portion. 

Peppennint Stick Ice Cream 

8 cups (2 qts.) cream or evapo- 1 pound red striped peppermint 
rated milk stick candy 

Cakes or wafers 



ICE CREAMS AND ICES 181 

Heat cream in a double boiler and add to it peppermint candy 
that has been thoroughly crushed. Stir well, let cool, and then 
freeze. Serve with cakes or wafers. Half quantities may be 
used. 

Plum Ice Cream 

2 cups (1 pt.) ripe plums 8 tablespoons sugar or honey 

1 cup (i pt.) water i cup (i pt.) grape or fruit juice 

2 cups (1 pt.) whipped cream 

Put fruit, water, and sugar into a saucepan and cook imtil 
soft, rub through a sieve, add grape or fruit juice, and cream. 
Freeze and pack in a mold, cover tightly, and pack in ice and 
salt three hours. Unmold on to a pretty platter and cut into 
slices for serving. 

Pineapple Sherbet 

2 cups (1 lb.) sugar or honey 2 cups (1 pt.) boiling water 

1 lemon 2 cups (1 pt.) grated canned pine- 

2 cups (1 pt.) white grape juice or apple 

any other fruit juice 2 egg whites, stiffly beaten 

Into a saucepan put sugar, water, strained lemon juice, and 
pineapple, bring to boiling point, and boil five minutes. Let 
cool, then add fruit juice and freeze in the usual way. When 
mixture begins to freeze, add eggs and finish freezing. This is 
one of the finest of frozen dainties. 



Raspberry Junket Ice Cream 

4 cups (1 qt.) lukewarm milk, 2 teaspoons raspberry extract 

100^ F. 1 cup (i pt.) whipped cream 

1 cup (i lb.) sugar f teaspoon salt 

1 junket tablet 1 box ripe raspberries 

1 tablespoon cold water 6 tablespoons powdered sugar 

Crush junket tablet with cold water. Mix milk, sugar, salt, 
extract, and cream, add junket tablet, and aUow to cool. 
Freeze. Mold if desired. Garnish with raspberries mixed 
with powdered sugar. Strawberries may be used in the same 
way. 



182 ECONOMICAL COOKEBT 

Strawberry Sherbet 

8 cups (2 qtB.) Btrawberries 2 cups (1 pt.) cream 

3 cups (li lbs.) sugar or honey 2 egg whites, beaten 

6 cups (3 pts.) water Few drops red color 

Wash and mash strawberries with sugar and let stand one 
hour. Rub through a sieve, add water and cream, and freeie 
until mushy; then add eggs and color and finish freezing. 
Serve in sherbet glasses. 

Rafipberries may be used in the same way. 

Tea Frapp6 

1 cup (} lb.) sugar 3 oranges 

2 cups (1 pt.) water, cold 1 cup (} pt.) grated pineapple 
2 lemons 2 cups (1 pt.) boiling water 

4 teaspoons tea 

Boil cold water and sugar eight minutes, add grated rinds and 
strained juices of lemons and oranges, add pineapple. Pour 
boiling water over tea and allow to infuse five minutes; cool 
and mix with fruit, strain and freeze to consistency of sherbet. 

Vanilla Ice Cream 

2 eggs, separated 1 cup (i pt.) cream 

4 cups (1 qt.) milk 1 teaspoon vamlla extract 

1 cup (I lb.) sugar or honey } teaspoon rose extract 

Beat up egg yolks, add milk and sugar, stir in whites slafily 
beaten, add cream and extracts. Freeze and serve. 

Half quantities may be used. The rose extract may be 
omitted. 

VaniUa Ice Cream Sandwiches 

Bake sponge cakes in square pans the me of ice-cream bricks. 
Cut two slices of cake and place slice of ice cream between. 
Cut diagonally in two pieces and serve. If one half pint of 
oatmeal be added to each quart of vaniUa ice cream, beaten 
thoroughly in, the mixture will taste ahnost exactly like macaroon 
ice cream. 



CHAPTER XVi 

PASTRIES, PIES AND TARTLETS 

" Carved like an apple tart." 

Pastbt is a combination of fat and flour, and may be short, 
flaky, or pitff pastry, according to the materials used and the 
method by which they are combined. The fat used is known by 
the general name of shortening. Butter and butter substitutes 
are sometimes used in combination to reduce expense. All 
shortenings should be as free as possible from water and from 
salt, and very sweet and fresh. The proportion of fat to flour 
varies according to the richness required, from less than half to 
nearly, and in the case of rich puff paste to quite, equal weights. 
Where the shortening is less than half the weight of flour, a small 
quantity of baking powder is used to give crispness and shortness 
to the crust, but pastry in which it is used should be eaten while 
quite fresh. 

Good pastry is the pride of a good cook, but though its success 
depends to a great extent on skiD and manipulation, it depends 
even more on the using of the right proportions in making and 
the correct heat in cooking; these points once mastered, the 
novice has gone a long way towards succeeding in the art of 
making pastry. 

The principles underl3ring the making of light pastry are the 
introduction of cold air during the making, and the expansion of 
the air so introduced by the heat of the oven while the pastry is 
cooking. 

The cook should aim to make the pastry light and short, or 
light and flaky according to the character of the pastry made. 

Pastry requires a hot oven and a cool, light hand in the making. 
Baked pastry should be mixed as dry as possible ; boiled pastry 

183 



184 ECONOMICAL COOKEBT 

rather moist. The quantity of liquid necessary to mix the 
pastry varies according to the richness of the crust, plain pastry 
requiring more liquid than a crust rich with a larger proportion 
of fat. 

In making pastry, the colder the hands of the maker, the water, 
and the room, the better. A marble slab is the best thing on 
which to make it : otherwise a hard board which is kept for pastry 
only should be used. 

Use iced water for mixing, when possible. Pastry will be 
flakier if placed in the ice box for a short time before it is finally 
rolled out for use. The flour should be very dry and should be 
sifted with a little salt. Never knead pastry. Use the hands 
as little as possible. Mix with a knife imless otherwise specified. 

The excellency of pastry depends very much upon its being 
properly baked. The best pastry that ever was mixed would be 
spoilt if the oven were not exactly right. If an oven is not hot 
enough, the pastry will shrink away from the edges of the dish 
and will be heavy. If the oven is too hot, the pastry will be 
burnt or will stiffen without rising. 

Bake pastry in a moderate or quick oven. A good way to test 
the oven is to have in readiness some pieces of white kitchen 
paper and try the oven by putting in a piece of this paper every 
six minutes or so. If the oven is too hot, the paper will blacken 
or blaze up immediately ; if it turns a deep brown, the oven is 
ready for patties, individual mince pies, etc. If it turns a cigar- 
brown, tartlets, vol-au-vent, etc., may be put in ; if it simply 
becomes a light brown, the oven is fit for bread, pound cake, or 
meat pie ; if it turns a very pale yellow, or hardly colors at all, it 
is a slow oven just fit for sponge cakes, etc., which require but 
little color and light baking. One of the surest ways of testing 
the heat of the oven is to bake a small piece of pastry before put- 
ting the pie or tartlet into it. Another way is to sprinkle a little 
flour upon the oven shelf. If it turns a bright brown in a few 
seconds, the oven is hot enough. If it turns black, the oven is 
too hot ; if it remains pale in color, the oven is too slow. 

The heat of the oven may be tested with a thermometer. For 
puff pastry the oven should register about 340° F. to begin with, 
and when the pastry is well risen the heat may be reduced to 



PASTRIES, PIES AND TARTLETS 185 

about 325** F. For meat pies about 300° F. will be hot enough, 
and for the plainer kinds of pastry the temperature may be still 
a little lower. 

Puff pastry, when well made, is light and tender, and so delicate 
that it cannot be touched without crumbling or crushing. It 
should be thoroughly baked, and is therefore suitable for patties, 
the upper crust of pies, and tartlets. Pastry that is light, dry 
and flaky is more easily separated by the gastric fluids and is 
more digestible than that which is heavy. 

Pastry which is to be boiled is lighter when made with suet 
than it is when butter or butter substitutes are used. Beef suet 
is generally used for this purpose, but mutton suet is more whole- 
some and can be chopped the more easily of the two. Measure 
four cups of floiu*, and four, six, eight, or ten ounces of suet may 
be used, according to the degree of richness required. The suet 
should be skinned, and the fibers and sinews should be removed ; 
it should then be chopped imtil it is quite fine and rubbed into the 
flour ; water or buttermilk should be added gradually to make a 
very stiff paste. The pastry should be rolled out once ; it is then 
ready for use. The water used in mixing pastry should be added 
gradually and mixed thoroughly. If a large quantity is poured 
in at once the pastry may be made over moist, and then an imdue 
proportion of flour will have to be added before the pastry can be 
rolled. It should be remembered that it is scarcely possible to 
give the exact measure of water that will be needed in making 
pastry, because some flours absorb more moisture than others. 
An experienced cook can tell in a moment by touching the pastry 
whether or not it is of the right consistency. All one can say to 
the inexperienced cook is that pastry should be smooth and stiff, 
but not too stiff. When properly mixed, the dough can be 
gathered into a ball, and used to wipe the mixing bowl out, like 
a cloth. 

Never allow pastry to stick to the board, but lift it occasionally 
on the rolling pin and dust a very little flour underneath. 

Avoid as much as possible rolling dry flour into the pastry, as 
it will give it a pasty and white appearance. 

Pastry is sometimes glazed before being put into the oven. 
When a rich deep color is wanted on a pie, brush the pastry over 



186 BCONOMICAL COOKERY 

with the beaten yolk of egg mixed with a little cold water. For 
a lighter brown use a whole egg beaten ; or egg and milk, or milk 
alone, may be used on the plainer kinds of pastry. Sweet 
pastry is generally glazed with slightly beaten white of egg and 
sugar, or with milk or water and sugar. 

The digestibility of pies has been called into question, but when 
properly made pies are as easily digested as anything else. 

Chooz Pastiy 

1 cup (4 028.) flour 2 tablespoons (1 oi.) sugar 

1 cup (} pt.) water 1 pinch salt 

4 tablespoons (2 oss.) butter 2 large eggs 

i teaspoon vanilla extract 

Sift flour and put it into a cool part of oven to dry. Pour 
water mto saucepan, add butter, sugar, and salt, and bring mix- 
ture to the boil, but do not let it reduce in quantity. Add flour 
quickly, and stir over the fire with a wooden spoon until the 
paste is compact, and does not adhere to the sides of the saucepan. 
This is called a " panada." Take the pan from the fire, and add 
eggs, one at a time, beating each one in thoroughly. Keep the 
paste at a medium thickness, not too soft, yet not too stiff, and 
using only a third large egg if necessary. If the paste is too stiff, 
it will not rise properly ; and if too soft, it will spread in the oven 
and lose its shape. Add flavoring and cool before using. This 
pastry is suitable for Eclairs, cream puffs, and various fritters and 
cakes. 

To Make Cream Puffs. Put mixture into forcing bag with a 
tube and force on to a floured baking tin in small rounds, brush 
over with milk, and bake in hot oven thirty minutes. When 
cold split them open on one side and fill them with whipped, 
sweetened, and flavored cream. Sprinkle powdered sugar on 
top and serve. 

Another Method. Grease well some tartlet or gem pans that are 
rather deep. Drop a tablespoon of choux pastry into each, and 
bake in hot oven thirty minutes. When cold, make a slit in each 
and fill with whipped cream, thick custard, or preserves. 

ficlairs are made in the same way, but baked in £clair« 
shaped tins. 



PA8TRIB8, PIfiS AKD tABHiirrd 187 

Comstardi Pastiy 

} cup (2 0Z8.) butter Pinch salt 

} cup (2 02B.) butter substitute H cups (5 ozs.) flour 

2 tablespoons (1 oz.) sugar 1 cup (6 ozs.) cornstarch 

1 teaspoon baking powder 1 egg yolk 

Milk 

Mix butter, butter substitute, sugar, baking powder, and salt, 
and cut and rub them into flour and cornstarch sifted together. 
Add beaten yolk of egg and sufficient milk to mix to stiff paste. 
Roll out and use. This pastry is suitable for lining dishes and 
for pies and tartlets. 

Cream Pastry 

4 cups (1 lb.) flour or potato flour 1 tablespoon (i os.) sugar 
i cup (4 028.) butter or lard i teaspoon salt 

1 cup (i pt.) cream 

Sift flour into a bowl, cut in shortening with a knife, then rub 
it in lightly with tips of the fingers ; add sugar, salt, and mix to 
a stiff paste with cream. Chill and use for pies, tartlets, and 
fancy cakes. 

Bveiyday Puff Pastry 

2 cups (i lb.) flour 1 teaspoon lemon juice 

i teaspoon salt Gold water 

I cup (6 ozs.) butter substitute 

Into fl bowl sift flour and salt and make a well in the center. 
Pour lemon juice mixed with a little water into this, and mix in 
sufficient water to make a stiff dough. Roll the pastry on a 
floured board lightly into a strip a little over one fourth of an 
inch thick. Place the shortening in a lump about halfway down 
on it, and fold over the pastry in three. Press the edges together, 
and turn it so that the rough edges are towards the right. Roll 
it out lightly, and again fold in three ; do this once more, and set 
aside in a cold place twenty minutes. Repeat the same process 
until it has been rolled twice more. After standing in a cool 
place or in the refrigerator twenty minutes, it is then ready for 
use. 



188 ECONOMICAL COOKEBT 

Flaky Pastry 

2 1 cups (10 OZ8.) flour 1 teaspoon lemon juice 

1 cup (8 ozs.) butter substitute 1 egg white, beaten 

i teaspoon salt Cold water 

Let butter substitute lie in cold water some time before using 
it. Sift flour and salt into a bowl, and add lemon juice. Lift 
butter substitute out of the water, and squeeze it dry in a clean 
floured cloth. Divide it into four equal pieces. Take one of 
these pieces and rub it into flour with tips of the fingers until free 
from lumps. Then add white of egg and sufficient cold water to 
form all into one lump. Mix as lightly as possible, and turn out 
on to floured board. Roll out into a long narrow strip about 
one fourth inch in thickness. Take one of the remaining por- 
tions of shortening, and with the point of a knife place it on in 
small pieces all over the pastry, leaving an inch margin without 
shortening around edges. Now flour the surface lightly and 
fold paste in three. Turn pastry half round, bringing edges to 
right-hand side. Press down the folds quickly with the rolling 
pin, roll out pastry again into narrow strip, and proceed as before 
until remaining portions of shortening have been used. The 
lajst time roll out pastry to desired thickness, and if it requires 
widening, turn it across the board and roll across. 

This pastry keeps well in cold weather if wrapped in greased 
paper or cheesecloth. It is suitable for pies, tartlets, and 
various fancy dishes. 

Plain Pastry 

1 cup (} lb.) flour 1 tablespoon (i oz.) butter 

^1 pinch salt 1 tablespoon (i oz.) lard 

loe water 

Sift flour and salt into a bowl, add shortening and rub in with 
tips of fingers until well mixed. Make a hole in the center, pour 
in two tablespoons of ice water, and with a broad knife work until 
mixed. Roll cut pastry on floured board and line a greased deep 
pie plate with it. 

If the crust is to be baked first, perforate the bottom and sides 
to prevent puffing. 



PASTRIES, PIES AND TABTLETS 189 

Potato Pastry 

Cold potatoes Flour 

DrippingB 

Take equal parts potatoes and flour and one half the same 
quantity of drippmgs. Rub potatoes through a sieve, mix with 
flour, cut and rub in fat, and make into stiff paste with a very 
little water. Use for meat pies, or fruit tarts. 

This is a very wholesome pastry. 

Another Method. Into a bowl sift two cups self-rising flour 
and one half teaspoon salt, cut and rub in one half cup butter 
substitute, then add one cup cold mashed potatoes and sufficient 
milk to make a stiff paste. Roll out and use. 

Rich Short Crust Pastry 

2 cups (} lb.) flour 1 teaspoon sugar 

} cup (6 ozs.) butter substitute 1 egg yolk 

i teaspoon salt Cold water 

Sift flour into a bowl, cut in shortening with a knife, and rub 
it in lightly with finger tips ; add salt and sugar. 

Beat up yolk of egg with two tablespoonf uls of water and mix 
gradually with flour mixture. The paste should be stiff. It 
may be necessary to add a little more water. 

This pastry is suitable for fruit pies, tartlets, puffs, and other 
sweet dishes. It is one of the most wholesome kinds of pastry. 

Short Pastry 

2 cups a lb.) flour 1 teaspoon baking powder 

i cup (4 ozs.) butter substitute } teaspoon salt 

1 teaspoon sugar Cold water 

Sift flour into a bowl, and cut and rub in shortening till mix- 
ture looks like fine bread crumbs. Now add sugar, baking 
powder, and salt, and make a well in the center. Pour a very 
little water — not more than a tablespoonful — into this, and 
with the blade of a broad knife stir thoroughly into the flom*. 
The stiffer you keep this paste the better, so add just sufficient 
more water to make a stiff paste. Make smooth on a floured 
baking board and roll it out, using it for pies, tartlets, and 
puddings. 



190 ECONOMICAL COOBLBBT 

Suet Pastiy 

1 cup (4 OS8.) flour 1 teaspoon baking powder 

1 cup (4 ozB.) whole wheat flour i teaspoon salt 

1 cup (4 OSS.) suet, shredded Cold water 

Sift flours into a bowl, add suet, baking powder, and salt, and 
mix thoroughly together, rubbing the ingredients lightly to- 
gether with tips of the fingers. Add sufficient water to make a 
stiffish dough, and turn out on floured board, leaving the bowi 
clean. Knead lightly until free from cracks, then roll out to 
thickness required. A larger proportion of suet may be used if 
the pastry is desired richer. Buttermilk or sweet milk can be 
used instead of water for mixing. Half the quantity of flour 
may be omitted and one half cup of bread crumbs used in its 
place. 

This pastry is suitable for dumplings, suet puddings, roly-poly 
pudding, fruit and meat puddings. 

Whole Wlieat Puif Paste 

4 cups (1 lb.) whole wheat flour 1 small lemon 

1 egg yolk Iced water 

2 cups (1 lb.) butter or butter substitute 

Make a bay in center of flour, add egg, mixed with strained 
lemon juice ; mix with the hand to a flexible paste, using a little 
water. Knead lightly until the psjste is smooth and elastic and 
set it in a cold place. Roll out this paste until it forms an ob- 
long about twice the size of the butter. Squeeze all moisture out 
of butter by wringing it in a clean doth ; bring it to the same 
consistency as pastry, upon which place it upon one end. Fold 
pastry over so as to hide butter, roll out till one fourth inch thick 
and about two feet long. Fold the pastry in three, press edges 
together, and lay pastry in a cool place fifteen minutes. This is 
called giving the pastry one " turn ", and seven of these is the 
nmnber usually required for puff pastry. The next time the 
pastry is roUed, place it with the open ends towards you. Now 
give it two ''turns" and place it in the refrigerator fifteen 
minutes. Repeat this until the pastry has had seven rolls in all, 
one turn the first time, and after that, two each time with an 



PASTRIES, PIES AND TARTLETS 191 

interval between. The idea in pufF pastry is to have the shorten- 
ing and the paste separate, so that the pastry will form a kind of 
sandwich, in which very thin, light layers of paste shaU be 
separated from each other by layers of fat, and the lighter and 
thinner these layers can be made, the better the puff paste is. It 
is for the purpose of keeping the pastry films perfect and separate 
that the pastry is cooled between the '^ turns." If the paste 
were to be sticky and the butter hot, the films could not be kept 
distinct ; therefore, between the rollings or turns, puff paste is 
put in the ice box or in a cool place that the layers may become 
firm and not mix together in a mass. 

Each time the pastry is folded over, a small amount of air is 
inclosed and retained, if the edges are evenly folded and placed 
together. These bubbles of air may be seen when the paste is 
rolled out, and care must be taken not to break the blisters thus 
formed. The more air inclosed, the lighter and puffier the 
pastry will be, as the air expands with the heat and sends up the 
layers. When rolling, keep the pressure of the two hands as 
equal as possible. After the pastry has received its last roll, it 
should be placed in the refrigerator for two or three hours before 
using it, then rolled to the thickness required. This pastry will 
keep for several days in cold weather, if wrapped in a piece of 
cheesecloth or a piece of waxed paper. 

If very salt butter has to be used, wash it first by kneading it 
in ice water. 

A very hot oven is required for puff pastry. If too slow, the 
fat wiU ooze out, and the pastry spread; if too hot, it will bum 
before it has risen. 

Banbury Tartlets 

4 tablespoons (2 oss.) butter sub- 1 cup (6 oss.) Sultana raisins 

stitute 1 lemon 

} cup (4 ozs.) sugar ) teaspoon powdered nutmeg 

1 cup (} lb.) currants 1 cup (4 ozs.) cake crumbs 

Pastry 

Cream butter substitute and sugar, add fruits, grated rind, 
and strained juice of lemon, nutmeg, and cake crumbs ; mix well 
and chill. Roll out some pastry to about one fourth inch thick, 



192 ECONOMICAL COOKERY 

cut out with oval cutter four inches in length and three inches 
wide. Place a tablespoon of the mixture in the center of each 
piece of paste, bring edges together to center, press together and 
flatten ends to about one half inch thick. Sprinkle with sugar, 
lay on a baking tin, and bake in moderate oven thirty minutes. 
Sufficient for six persons. 

Cheny Tartlets 

1 cup a pt.) ripe cherries, stoned i cup ({ lb.) sugar or honey 

1 teaspoon lemon extract i cup (i gill) water 

Pastry 

Line twelve tartlet tins with pastry, and bake them in a hot 
oven until the pastry is just set. Before baking line them with 
a little piece of white paper and fill up with rice or small dried 
beans to prevent the pastry losing its shape during the baking. 
Both beans and rice used in this way will serve over and over 
again for the same purpose. When tartlets are ready, remove 
filling, and if the pastry underneath seems soft, return them to 
the oven for a few minutes to dry. 

Stone the cherries. Put lemon extract, sugar, and water into 
a saucepan, and boil them for eight minutes, poiu- this sirup over 
fruit, and stand in a warm place thirty minutes. Then lift out 
fruit carefully, place it in ready cooked tartlet cases, and pour 
over it three teaspoons of the sirup. Serve either hot or cold. 

Strawberries or raspberries may be used in the same way. 

Chocolate Pie 

4 tablespoons (2 ozs.) butter sub- 1 tablespoon cornstarch 

stitute 3 squares (3 ozs.) chocolate, 
} cup (2 ozs.) sugar grated 

2 eggs, separated i cup (i gill) milk 

1 cup (4 ozs.) bread crumbs i teaspoon vanilla extract 

Pie crust 

Beat butter substitute and sugar imtil creamy ; add yolks of 
eggs, bread crumbs, and cornstarch. Mix chocolate with milk 
and stir over the fire until chocolate h dissolved, then add to other 
ingredients ; lastly add vanilla and stiffly beaten whites of eggs. 

Line pie plate with pastry, pour in chocolate filling, and bake 
three fourths of an hour. 



PASTRIES; PI&S AND TARTLETS 193 

Cranberry Pie 

1 cup (i pt.) cranberries ) cup (1} gills) boiling water 

1 cup (i lb.) seeded raisins, 1 tablespoon flour 

chopped 1 teaspoon vanilla extract 

1 cup a lb.) sugar or honey Pie crust 

Cut cranberries in halves and wash in cold water to remove 
seeds. Now add raisins, sugar, water, flour, and extract. Mix 
and bake between two crusts. 

Cream Cinnamon Pie 

1 cup (i lb.) sugar or honey 2 eggs, separated 

1 tablespoon flour 1 cup (i pt.) boiling water 

1 tablespoon (^ oz.) butter Pastry 

1 teaspoon powdered cinnamon 1 tablespoon powdered sugar 

Mix sugar, flour, butter, cinnamon, and yolks of egg9, then add 
water, slowly stirring until smooth. Turn into pastry lined pie 
plate and bake in moderate oven twenty to twenty-five minutes. 
Beat up whites of eggs to a stiff froth, add powdered sugar, and 
beat again and spread on top of pie. Brown lightly in oven. 

Crumb Pies 

Pie crust } cup (4 ozs.) butter substitute 

2 cups (i lb.) flour 2 teaspoons baking powder 
1} cups (12 ozs.) sugar or honey 2 eggs, beaten 

i cup (1 gill) milk 

Line three deep pie plates with pastry. Mix flour, sugar, 
butter substitute, and baking powder together and rub them into 
crumbs. Take out one cup of these cnunbs to sprinkle over top 
of pie and to remainder add eggs and milk. Divide into the 
prepared plates, sprinkle over with reserved crumbs, and bake in 
moderate oven twenty to twenty-five minutes. 

Currant Tartlets 

Pastry 1 tablespoon ground rice 

} cup (1 gill) milk 2 tablespoons (1 oz.) butter sub- 

1 tablespoon (} oz.) sugar stitute 

1 tablespoon fruit juice 3 tablespoons currants 

1 egg, beaten 



194 ECONOMICAL COOKBBT 

Line twelve tartlet tins with pastry, but do not bake them. 
Mix ground rice with milk, and put this into a saucepan with 
butter substitute, stir over the fire until boiling, simmer five 
minutes, and remove the pan from the fire. Add sugar, fruit 
juice, currants, and egg. Mix all together, cool slightly, and fill 
into tartlet cases. Bake in a moderate oven twenty minutes. 

Custard Tartleta 

1 cup (} pt.) milk } teaspoon lemon extract 

1 egg, beaten 2 tablespoons (1 os.) sugar 

2 teaspoons cornstarch Pastry 

Line greased gem pans with pastry and then half cook it. Put 
in the custard mixture and finish cooking. 

Mix cornstarch with a little of the milk. Put the remaining 
milk into a saucepan, and bring slowly to the boil, then pom* it 
over the cornstarch, return to the saucepan, and stir until it has 
cooked eight minutes. Whip up egg, sugar, and flavoring to- 
gether, then pour over the cornstarch mixture and stir until 
sugar is dissolved. When cool, it is ready for use. 

Grated Pineapple Pie 

1 cup (i lb.) sugar or honey 1 pinch salt 

2 tablespoons (i oz.) flour 2 eggs, separated 

1 cup (i pt.) grated pineapple 1} cups (} pt.) milk 

Pie crust 

Mix sugar, flour dissolved in a little milk, pineapple, salt, and 
beaten yolks mixed with remainder of milk. Pour into pastry- 
lined pie plate and bake in moderate oven twenty to twenty-five 
minutes. Beat up whites of eggs to stiff froth, spread on top of 
pie, sprinkle with sugar, and return to oven to brown. 

Lemon Tarts 

Pastry 2 tablespoons (1 os.) chopped nut 

2 eggs, beaten meats or cocoanut 

1 cup a lb.) sugar or honey 4 tablespoons (2 oss.) butter sub- 

1 lemon stitute, melted 

Line ten tartlets with pastry. Add eggs to sugar and beat 
well, add grated rind and strained juice of lemon, nuts, and 



PASTRIBS, PIES AND TARTLETS 195 

butter substitute. Divide into prepared tins and bake in 
moderate oveH twenty minutes, or until mixture is firm in 
center. 
These tarts are delicious if served warm. 

Molasses Pie 

1 cup (14 CIS.) molasses 2 cups (} lb.) flour 

2 cups (1 pt.) hot water 1 cup (} lb.) laid 

1 teaspoon soda 1 cup (i lb.) sugar 

2 cups (i lb.) com flour Pie crust 

Line three pie plates with crust. Mix molasses, hot water, 
and soda together and divide into pie plates. Mix flour, lard, 
and sugar, cut and rub into crumbs. Divide this mixture and 
sprinkle over top of molasses mixture. Bake in a moderate oven 
thirty minutes. 

These pies are delicious served with milk. 

Peach Pie 

Pie crust 2 eggs, beaten 

1 quart canned peaches f cup (li giUs) milk 

} cup (4 OSS.) sugar or sirup 

Line pie plate with pastry and fill with peaches which have 
been drained. Mix eggs, milk, and sugar and pour over peaches. 
Bake in moderate oven twenty to twenty-five minutes. This is 
very good served with whipped cream. 

Perfection Pie 

Pastry 1 teaspoon powdered cinnamon 

li cups (f pt.) apples, chopped } cup (6 ozs.) sugar or honey 

i cup (i lb.) seeded raisins i cup (2 ozs.) chopped nut meats 

1 tablespoon vinegar 1 cream cheese 

Line pie plate with pastry. Mix apples, raisins, vinegar, 
cinnamon, and sugar, turn into prepared plate, and bake in a 
moderate oven thirty minutes. Brush top with sweetened milk 
or beaten egg and sprinkle with nut meats. Return to oven six 
minutes. Serve hot mth cheese. 



196 ECONOMICAL COOKERY 

Raisin and Apple Pie 

Pie crust 4 teaspoons fruit juice 

1 cup (i lb.) seeded raisins 1 teaspoon butter 

2 cups (1 pt.) water i cup (4 ozs.) sugar or sirup 

3 large green apples, chopped i teaspoon flour 

2 teaspoons mixed spice 1 tablespoon currants 

1 teaspoon vinegar 

line pie plate with crust and bake in hot oven five minutes. 
Soak raisins in one cup of the water for several hours. Cook 
apples with the remainder of water until tender ; add spices, fruit 
juice, butter, sugar, flour, and one half of juice from raisins and 
cook until slightly thickened. Now add raisins and currants, 
bring to boiling point, remove from fire, and add vinegar. Pour 
into pie plate, cover with top crust, pinch edges together, brush 
over with milk, bake in hot oven twenty minutes. 

Raisin Pie 

Pie crust 1 cup (} pt.) milk 

1 cup (i lb.) seeded raisins 2 eggs, separated 

1 cup (i lb.) sugar or honey 1 tablespoon powdered sugar 

Line pie plate with pastry and place cleaned raisins around in 
it. Mix sugar, milk, and beaten yolks of eggs together and pour 
over raisins. Bake thirty minutes in moderately hot oven. 
Beat up whites of eggs, add powdered sugar and beat again, pile 
on top of pie, and brown lightly in oven. 

Rhubarb Pie 

Pastry 1 tablespoon (i oz.) butter 

1 egg, beaten 1} cups (9 ozs.) rhubarb 

1 cup (} lb.) sugar or honey 4 tablespoons cold water 

3 tablespoons (1 oz.) flour } teaspoon powdered ginger 

Line a pie plate with pastry. Mix egg with sugar and flour, 
add butter, rhubarb, water, and ginger. Mix and turn into 
lined pie plate, cover with pastry, brush over with milk, and bake 
in a hot oven twenty minutes. 

Paste for pies should be kept cold and rolled quite thin. 
Always brush around the edge of the under crust with cold water 
and press the upper one down on it. 



PASTRIES, PIES AND TARTLETS 197 

When baking a juicy fruit pie, make an incision in the center 
and place a small funnel-shaped piece of paper in it. This will 
keep the juice from escaping. 

Sour Cream Pie 

1 cup (\ pt.) thick sour cream } teaspoon powdered cloves 

1 cup (} lb.) sugar, scant } teaspoon powdered nutmeg 

2 small eggs, beaten \ teaspoon powdered ginger 

} teaspoon salt i teaspoon powdered cinnamon 

Pie crust 

Mix cream and sugar together, add eggs, salt, and spices. 
Pour into pastry-lined pie plate, cover with pastry, and bake in 
moderate oven thirty minutes. 

Strawberry Custard Pie 

\\ cups (} pt.) milk 1 tablespoon cornstarch 

1 cup {\ lb.) sugar 1 baked pie crust 

2 eggs, separated Fresh ripe strawberries 

Mix one cup of the milk with sugar and yolks of egg3 and bring 
to boiling ]X)int ; then add cornstarch dissolved in remainder of 
milk and cook five minutes. Cover bottom of pie crust with 
strawberries cut in halves, pour over custard, and cover with 
meringue made of whites of eggs stiffly beaten and mixed with a 
little powdered sugar. Brown lightly in oven. 

Tyler Pie 

Pie crust 2 eggs, separated 

} cup (4 ozs.) butter } cup (1 gill) milk 

I cup (6 ozs.) sugar \ teaspoon vanilla extract 

\ cup (3 ozs.) brown sugar } teaspoon powdered nutmeg 

Line pie plate with pastry. Beat butter and sugar imtil 
creamy ; add yolks beaten and milk. Now cook over hot water 
until clear. Take from fire, add egg whites stiffly beaten and 
vanilla. Turn into pastry, sprinkle with nutmeg, and bake in 
hot oven twenty to twenty-five minutes. Serve cold. 



CHAPTER XVn 

CAKES, FILLINGS, AIVD FROSTINGS 

" Never dam the oven door. 
Cakes will fall to rise no more." 

Cakbb form pleasant adjmicts to the food necessities of the 
household, and are of only secondary importance to bread- 
making. 

There are four principal ways of making cakes. 

The first method is used for plain cakes. The fat is rubbed 
into the flour in the same way as for short pastry; then the dry 
ingredients, such as sugar, fruit, and spice, are added, and lastly 
the eggs and milk. All are then well mixed together. 

The second way is used for fruit, pound, and seed cakes. The 
fat and sugar are creamed together, the eggs beaten in one at a 
time, and the fruit and flour stirred in quickly and lightly at the 
last. 

In the third way the eggs and sugar are beaten together until 
thick and creamy ; then the flour is stirred in lightly and quickly. 
This is used chiefly for sponge cakes and cakes of that texture. 

For the fourth way the sugar, fat, milk, and sirup or molasses 
are melted together, then cooled slightly and added to the dry 
ingredients. This method is used for gingerbreads. 

Care must be taken to insure the right consistency of cakes. 
The mixture should be fairly stiff. If too moist, the fruit will 
sink to the bottom. Good cakes can never be made with in- 
different materials. The greatest care in cleanliness must be 
exercised in all cake making ; and accimicy in proportioning the 
materials to be used is indispensable. 

The flour should be thoroughly dried and sifted, and lightly 
stirred in. Always sift flour before measuring, then sift it 

198 



KAiaiH AMD Apple Pii. Page 196. 



RnLHARB Fie. I'ltge 196. 



CocoANUT BiRTHDAv CiKE. Page S 



EOOLESH, MlLKI-ESS, « 



CAEESy FILLINGS, AND FROSTINGS 199 

again with the baking powder to insure a thorough blending. 
Always buy the best fruits for cake making as they are the 
sweetest and cleanest. Candied peels should be of good color 
and flavor. They should not be added to cake mixtures in chunks, 
as is often done, but should be in long shredded pieces. Large 
pieces of peel are sometimes the cause of a cake cutting badly. 

Eggs are used both as an aerating agent and as one of the 
" wetting " materials. It is not economy to buy cheap eggs, 
for such eggs are small, weak, colorless, and often very stale. 

If a cake cracks open while baking, the recipe contains too 
much flour. When a cake batter curdles, the texture will 
not be so even as if curdling has not taken place. Sometimes 
the mixture will curdle through the eggs being added too quickly, 
or if the butter contains too much water. This forms a sirup 
with the sugar, and after a certain quantity of eggs have been 
added the batter will slip and slide about, and will not amalga- 
mate with the other ingredients. 

When baking cakes, if no sweet milk can be procured, the 
same amount of water can be used with good results. 

Cake tins should always be prepared before the mixing of 
the ingredients is conmienced ; as many cakes will spoil if the 
mixture is allowed to stand and wait because the tins are not 
ready. For inexpensive cakes the tins should be greased and 
dusted out with flour or potato flour. For rich cakes the tins 
should be lined with paper, the paper coming a short distance 
above the tins, so that the cake is protected as it rises. For 
very rich fruit cakes, experience has shown that it is best not 
to grease the paper or tins. The cake is not so liable to bum, 
and the paper can be removed easily when the cake is done with- 
out injiuing it. On the other hand, if tins are lined for sponge 
cakes or jelly roll, the paper should be greased. 

For small cakes have a quick oven, so that {hey set right 
through, and the inside is baked by the time the outside is 
browned. For all large cakes have a quick oven at first, to 
raise them nicely and prevent the fruit from sinking to the 
bottom. The oven should then be allowed to become slower 
to fire the cakes thoroughly. Cakes should not be hurried. 
Keep the oven steady, though slow, and after putting a large 



200 ESCONOMICAL COOKERY 

cake into it do not open the oven door for at least twenty minutes. 
If the door must be opened, special care should be taken to close 
it gently ; if it is slammed carelessly, the shock may make the 
cake fall, and a quantity of cold air will be shut in which will 
check the baking. 

A very light cake put into a quick oven rises rapidly round 
the sides, but leaves a hollow in the middle. An excess in fat 
and sugar may also cause this ; but there are other causes. If 
a cake is made too light with eggs or powder, and an insufficient 
quantity of flour is added, it will sink in the middle. Another 
frequent cause is the moving of cakes while in the oven before the 
mixture has properly set. The same defect is produced if the 
cakes are removed from the oven before being baked sufficiently. 

Before turning out a cake, allow it to remain in the tin for a 
few minutes. It is best to lay it on a wire cake stand, or lay it 
on a sieve ; but if these things are not handy, a loosely made 
basket turned upside down will do. Do not place cakes in a 
cold place or at an open window, or the steam will condense and 
make them heavy. 

Apple-sauce Cake 

2 eggs, beaten 1 cup (i lb.) barley flour 

1 cup (8 0Z8.) sugar i teaspoon salt 

} cup (4 ozs.) shortening, melted 1 teaspoon soda 

1 teaspoon powdered allspice 1 cup (i pt.) hot apple sauce 

1 teaspoon powdered cinnamon } cup (3 ozs.) Sultana raisins 

} teaspoon powdered ginger i cup (2 ozs.) cmrants 

} teaspoon powdered nutmeg i cup (2 ozs.) English walnut 

I cup (i lb.) flour meats, chopped 

Beat eggs, add sugar, shortening, spices sifted with flours 
and salt, soda dissolved in apple sauce, fruit, and nuts. Mix 
well, pour into greased pan, and bake in slow oven one hour 
and fifteen minutes. 

Barm Brack 

1 yeast cake 1 teaspoon salt 

i cup (1 giU) milk 2 tablespoons (1 oz.) sugar 

2 tablespoons (1 oz.) butter sub- } cup (i lb.) seeded raisins 
stitute 4 tablespoons chopped candied 

1 cup (i lb.) flour citron peel 



CAKES, FILLINGS, AND FROSTINGS 201 

Mix yeast with one tablespoon of the sugar. Make milk 
and butter substitute lukewarm, add this with remaining sugar 
to yeast. Heat bowl and flour, make well in center of flour, 
sprinkle salt round edges, pour yeast, etc., into center, make into 
a batter and beat well with a wooden spoon five minutes, next 
beat in the fruits. Pour into a greased cake tin and leave to 
rise in a warm place one and one half hours. It should rise 
double its own bulk. Bake in hot oven twenty to thirty minutes. 

Boiled Fruit Cake 

i cup (2 028.) drippings } teaspoon powdered doves 

1 cup (8 OZ8.) seeded raisins } teaspoon powdered ginger 

1 cup (4 ozB.) currants i teaspoon salt 

i cup (2 OZB.) stoned dates, 1 cup (6 ozs.) brown sugar or 

chopped honey 

i cup (2 ozs.) figs, chopped 1) cups (} pt.) water 

1 cup (4 ozs.) shredded candied 1 teaspoon baking powder 

citron peel 2 cups (8 ozs.) flour 

1 teaspoon powdered cinnamon i cup (2 ozs.) barley flour 

1 teaspoon powdered nutmeg 1 teaspoon baking soda 

Caramel frosting 

Into saucepan put drippings, fruits, spices, salt, sugar, and 
water. Bring to boiling point and boil eight minutes. Turn 
into a bowl, and when cool add baking powder, and soda sifted 
with flour. Mix and pour into greased and floured cake tin 
and bake in moderate oven one hour and fifteen minutes. When 
cold cover with frosting. 

Caramel Frosting 

Boil one cup grated maple or brown sugar and one half cup 
cream or milk until it forms soft ball when tried in cold water, 
add one teaspoon vanilla extract and four tablespoons caramel- 
ized sugar, beat a few minutes, and spread on cake. 

Buttermilk Cake 

1 cup (} lb.) seeded raisins 2 eggs 

1 cup (} lb.) currants 2 teaspoons soda 

2 cups (J lb.) flour 2 cups (1 pt.) l)uttermilk 

2 cups (i lb.) com flour 1 teaspoon powdered cloves 

2 cups (1 lb.) sugar 1 teaspoon powdered cinnamon 

i cup (4 ozs.) butter or lard 1 teaspoon powdered ginger 



202 ECONOMICAL COOKERY 

Clean raisins and currants and mix dry with one cup of the 
flour. Cream sugar and butter together, add one egg and beat 
one minute, then add second egg and beat one minute, pour in 
buttermilk, remainder of flours sifted with soda and spices, add 
fruit. Mix thoroughly and quickly, divide into two well- 
greased bread pans, and bake one and one half hours in slow 
oven. 

This cake is inexpensive and improves with age. 

Chess Cake 

Pastry } cup (6 ozs.) sugar or honey 

Watermelon or canteloupe pre- 2 eggs, separated 

serves 2 tablespoons cream 

i cup (4 ozs.) butter substitute 1 teaspoon powdered cinnamon 

« 

Line individual deep tart pans with pastry, and in each place 
one tablespoon preserves. Cream butter substitute and sugar 
together, add yolks well beaten, cream, and cinnamon. Place 
over fire for a minute or two to melt slightly and divide into 
crusts. Bake in moderate oven thirty minutes, take from oven 
and top with whites of eggs stiffly beaten and sweetened with a 
tablespoon of sugar, and return to oven to brown lightly. Serve 
hot or cold. 

Chocolate Cake 

2 eggs, beaten 1 cup (i pt.) hot water 

li cups (12 ozs.) sugar 1 cup (} lb.) flour 

i cup (4 ozs.) butter substitute 1 cup (i lb.) barley flour 

} cup (1 gill) sour milk 1 teaspoon baking powder 

i teaspoon soda 1 pinch salt 

1 square (1 oz.) chocolate, grated 1 teaspoon vanilla extract 

Beat eggs and sugar ten minutes, add butter substitute, and 
beat well together. Then add milk and soda mixed together. 
Put chocolate into a cup, dissolve with hot water, and then fill 
cup with hot water and add. Sift in flours, baking powder, 
and salt, add vanilla, and mix carefully. Turn into a square 
greased and papered tin and bake in moderate oven. 



CAKES, FILLINGS, AND FROSTINGS 203 

Chocolate Idng 

1 square (1 oz.) chocolate, grated 2 cups (10 ozs.) confectioners' 

2 tablespoons (1 oz.) butter, sugar 

melted 2} tablespoons strong coffee 

Mix chocolate with sugar, add butter and sufficient coffee 
to make it spread easily. Beat until creamy and spread on 
cake. 

Cocoanut Birthday Cake 

1 cup (} lb.) butter substitute 2 teaspoons baking powder 

1 cup (i lb.) sugar } teaspoon salt 

2 eggs 2 cups a lb.) cocoanut, chopped 

1 cup (i pt.) milk or cream } cup (2 ozs.) shredded candied 

2 cups (} lb.) flour citron peel 

2 cups (i lb.) entire wheat flour 1 teaspoon grated orange rind 

Boiled frosting 

Beat butter substitute and sugar until creamy, beat in eggs 
one by one, add milk, flours sifted with baking powder and salt, 
cocoanut, peel, and orange rind. Mix and turn into a large 
greased and papered cake tin ; bake in a slow oven four hours. 
Cool, cover with frosting, cocoanut, and candles. 



Custard Spice Cakes 

2 eggs, separated 1 teaspoon salt 

} cup (4 ozs.) sugar } teaspoon powdered nutmeg 

1 cup (14 ozs.) molasses 1 teaspoon powdered ginger 

1 teaspoon soda 2 cups (8 ozs.) flour 

1 cup (i pt.) sour cream i cup (2 ozs.) com flour 

Beat up whites of eggs, add sugar, molasses, soda dissolved 
in cream, salt, and spices sifted with flours. Divide into three 
greased and floured layer-cake tins and bake in moderately 
hot oven twenty minutes. 



Custard FOHng 

1 cup a lb.) sugar or honey 1 cup (} pt.) milk 

1 tablespoon cornstarch 1} teaspoons lemon extract 



204 ECONOMICAL COOKERY 

Into upper part of double boiler put yolks of eggs, sugar 
mixed with cornstarch, milk, and extract. Cook until thick and 
turn out to cool. Spread between cakes. 

Cup Cakes 

1 cup H pt.) sour cream i teaspoon powdered nutmeg 

} teaspoon baking soda i teaspoon powdered cinnamon 

1 cup (i lb.) sugar 1 cup (} lb.) flour 

2 eggs, separated 1 cup (i lb.) com flour 

1 teaspoon baking powder 

Pour cream into a bowl, add soda and stir well, add sugar, 
yolks of eggs, spices, flours sifted with baking powder, and 
whites of eggs beaten to a stiff froth. Mix and divide into 
twelve greased muffin pans, and bake in moderately hot oven 
fifteen to twenty minutes. Turn out and serve hot. 

Economical Chocolate Cake 

2 squares (2 ozs.) chocolate I cup (4 ozs.) flour 

1 cup (I pt.) boiling water i cup (2 ozs.) barley flour 

1 cup (} lb.) sugar or honey 1 teaspoon baking powder 

1 tablespoon (i oz.) butter 1 pinch salt 

1 egg, separated 1 teaspoon vanilla extract 

} teaspoon soda Boiled maple frosting 

Grate chocolate and boil with one half the water until as thick 
as cream. Remove to back of range and add sugar, butter, 
and beaten yolk of egg mixed together. Dissolve soda in 
remainder of water and add to chocolate mixture. Add vanilla 
and sift in flours, baking powder, and salt. Turn into greased 
and floured cake tin and bake in moderate oven thirty minutes. 
Cool and cover with frosting. 

Three tablespoons of cocoa may be used in place of chocolate. 

Boiled Maple Frosting 

Boil one cup grated maple sugar, one tablespoon maple sirup, 
and one cup boiling water imtil it forms soft ball when tried in 
cold water, or reaches 240° F. by candy thermometer. Pour 
on to stiffly beaten egg white and continue beating until thick 
enough to spread. 



CAKES, FILLINGS, AND FB08TINGS 205 

Economical Gingerbread 

i cup (4 OZ8.) sugar, brown or 1 teaspoon soda 

white 1 teaspoon powdered ginger 

i cup (7 ozs.) molasses 1 teaspoon powdered cinnamon 

i cup (4 ozs.) lard | teaspoon powdered mace 

i cup (1 gill) boiling water 1 cup (4 ozs.) flour 

2 tablespoons sour cream } cup (3 ozs.) whole wheat flour 
1 egg, beaten 1 cup (} lb.) currants 

Put sugar in cup, fill up with molasses, and pour into bowl. 
Measure lard and fill up with boiling water, add to molasses, 
then add cream, egg, soda, spices, flours, and currants. Mix 
and turn into a shallow greased and floured tin, and bake in 
moderate oven thirty minutes. 

Another Method, Beat one egg, add three fourths cup brown 
sugar, three fourths cup molasses, three fourths cup butter 
substitute softened, one cup sweet milk, one teaspoon soda 
dissolved in milk, one teaspoon cream of tartar sifted with two 
cups flour, and one half cup cornstarch, one teaspoon each 
powdered nutmeg and allspice, and one tablespoon vinegar. 
Mix well and turn into greased and floured shallow cake tin 
and bake in moderate oven. 

Eggless and Milldess Gingerbread 

1 cup (14 ozs.) molasses or 1 cup (8 ozs.) sugar 

honey 1 cup {\ pt.) boihng water 

1 teaspoon soda 2 tablespoons (1 oz.) butter sub- 

3 teaspoons powdered ginger stitute 

i teasix>on powdered nutmeg 2 cups (i lb.) flour 
1 cup (i lb.) com flour \ teaspoon salt 

Into a bowl pour molasses, add sugar, soda dissolved in boiling 
water, butter substitute melted, and flours sifted with spices 
and salt. Mix carefully, turn into a greased and floured shallow 
cake tin, and bake fifty minutes in a moderate oven. 
If liked, cover with following Cofifee Frosting : 
Cream one half cup butter substitute with one cup con- 
fectioner's sugar. Beat one egg, add one cup brown sugar or 
honey, one fourth cup cornstarch or potato flour, one eighth 
teaspoon salt, one half cup hot, strong coffee, one and one half 
cups scalded milk, and two squares bitter chocolate. Cook in 



206 ECONOMICAL COOKEBY 

double boiler twenty minutes, cool, add one teaspoon vanilla 
extract, and add slowly to creamed butter. This mixture may 
be used for fillings as well as for frosting. 

Eggless, Milkless, and Butterless Cake 

1 cup (14 OZ8.) molasses or honey 1 teaspoon soda 

1 cup (8 ozs.) sugar 3 cups (15 ozs.) coarse Graham 

1 teaspoon powdered ginger flour or meal (unsifted) 

1 teaspoon powdered allspice i cup (2 ozs.) flour 

i teaspoon salt 1 cup (i lb.) dates, stoned and 

1 cup (i pt.) water cut small 

Mix molasses, sugar, spices, and salt, add water in which soda 
has been dissolved, flours, and dates. Mix and divide into two 
well-greased and floured cake tins and bake in moderate oven 
three fourths of an hour. This cake is simple, healthful, and 
easily digested. 

English Pork Cake 

1 pound fat pork, chopped fine 1 tablespoon powdered allspice 

2 cups (1 pt.) boiling water 1 tablespoon powdered nutmeg 

1 cup (14 ozs.) molasses or honey 3 cups (f lb.) flour 

2 cups (1 lb.) seeded raisins 2 cups (i lb.) barley flour 
2 cups (12 ozs.) Sultana raisins 1 tablespoon soda 

4 cups (1 lb.) currants 1 tablespoon baking powder 

1 tablespoon powdered cinnamon 2 cups (12 ozs.) brown sugar 

1 tablespoon powdered cloves i teaspoon salt 

Dissolve pork in water, allow to cool, add molasses, fruit, 
flours sifted with spices, soda, baking powder, salt, and sugar. 
Mix well, turn into greased and papered cake pan, and bake in 
moderate oven three and one half hours. This cake keeps well. 

If liked, one half poimd each of chopped dates and figs, one 
fourth pound each shredded citron, chopped nuts, and candied 
cherries may be added. 

Fruit Cake without Eggs 

2 cups (i lb.) flour 1} teaspoons baking soda 

2 cups (i lb.) com flour 2 cup>s (1 lb.) seeded raisins 

i cup (6 ozs.) butter substitute 1 teaspoon powdered cinnamon 
2 cups (12 ozs.) brown sugar 1 teaspoon powdered cloves 

1} cups (f pt.) sour milk 1 teaspoon powdered nutmeg 

1 teaspoon powdered allspice 



CAKES, FILLINGS, AND FBOSTINGS 207 

Sift flours into a bowl, cut and rub in butter substitute, add 
soda, sugar, nlilk, raisins, and spices. Mix and turn into a 
greased and floured cake tin. Bake one hour in moderate oven. 

If liked, cover with boiled frosting. 

Boiled Frosting 

Boil one cup sugar with one half cup water until it forms soft 
ball when tried in cold water, or reaches 240^ F. on candy ther- 
mometer; pour on to stiffly beaten white of one egg, pouring 
in a steady stream ; add, while beating, one teaspoon vanilla 
extract. Beat until thick and spread over cold cake. 

Layer Cake with Filling 

} cup (4 ozB.) butter substitute } teaspoon salt 

1 cup (i lb.) sugar, brown or 2 eggs, separated 
white i cup (1 gill) milk 

2 teaspoons baking powder 1 cup (i lb.) potato flour 

1 cup (i lb.) flour 

Beat shortening and sugar to a cream, add yolks of eggs well 
beaten, milk, whites of eggs beaten to a stiff froth, and flours 
sifted with baking powder and salt. Mix well, divide into two 
greased and floured layer tins, and bake in moderate oven for 
twenty to twenty-five minutes. Turn out to cool. 

FDling 

i cup (li ozs.) powdered sugar li tablespoons butter substitute, 

2 tablespoons cocoa melted 

2 tablespoons boiling coffee i teaspoon vanilla extract 

Into a bowl sift powdered sugar and cocoa, add coffee, butter 
substitute, and extract, and beat five minutes. Spread between 
layers and sift powdered sugar over top layer. 

Another Method. Put one cup maple sugar, one cup brown 
sugar, and one cup milk into a saucepan, heat slowly, stirring 
constantly until boiling point is reached, boil steadily without 
stirring until a soft ball is formed when tested in cold water, 
remove from fire, and stir in one cup chopped nut meats and 
one teaspoon lemon extract. 

Spread between layers and on top of cake. 



208 ECONOMICAL COOKEBT 

Lightning Mocha Cake 

1 cup (4 ozs.) flour } teaspoon salt 

1 cup (8 ozs.) sugar, brown or i cup (2 ozs.) butter substitute 

white 2 eggs 

1 teaspoon baking powder Milk 

i teaspoon almond extract 

Into a bowl sift flour, sugar, baking powder, and salt. Melt 
shortening in a cup, into this break eggis, fill to top with milk, 
add to dry ingredients with extract, mix well, and bake. This 
mixture will fill three sbc-inch pans, or two eight-inch pans. 

Mocha Filling 

i cup (6 ozs.) sugar, brown or 1 tablespoon (} oz.) butter sub- 
white stitute 
3 teaspoons cocoa 2 tablespoons strong coffee 

Mix sugar, butter, cocoa, and coffee, cream together thor- 
oughly, and spread between cakes. 

Luncheon Cakes 

2 cups (12 ozs.) light brown sugar i cup (2 ozs.) barley flour 

i cup (4 ozs.) butter substitute 2 teaspoons baking powder 

2 eggs, beaten 1 teaspoon vanilla extract 

1 cup (} pt.) milk i teaspoon almond extract 

2 cups (8 ozs.) flour Powdered sugar 

Cream sugar and butter substitute together, add eggs, milk, 
flours sifted with baking powder, and extracts. Mix and divide 
into well-greased and floured gem or patty pans and bake in 
moderate oven fifteen nunutes. Turn out and roU in powdered 
sugar. 

Old-Fashioned Dried Apple Cake 

2 cups (6 ozs.) dried apples } teaspoon powdered cloves 

2 cups (1 lb.) prunes, stoned 1 cup (i lb.) shortening, creamed 

2 cups (28 ozs.) molasses or honey 2 cups (1 lb.) sugar 

1 cup (i pt.) water 4 cups (1 lb.) currants 

1 teaspoon powdered cinnamon 1} cups (f lb.) seeded raisins 

1 teaspoon powdered ginger 2 teaspoons soda 

1 teaspoon powdered nutmeg 2 cups (i lb.) flour 

1 teaspoon powdered mace 2 cups (10 ozs.) Graham flour 

i teaspoon powdered allspice i teaspoon salt 



CAKES, FILLINGS, AND FR08TIN0S 209 

Cook apples, prunes, molasses, water, and spices one hour. 
Then add shortening, sugar, currants, raisins, soda, flours, and 
salt. Mix well and turn into a greased and floured loaf tin and 
bake in slow oven one and one half hours. This cake improves 
with age. 

Premier Cake 

1 cup (i pt.) sour cream 1 cup (} lb.) com fioxu' 

1 cup H lb.) sugar 1 cup (4 ozs.) currants, cooked 
i cup (6 ozs.) butter substitute 1 teaspoon baking soda 

2 cups (i lb.) flour 1 tea£J>oon powdered mace 

Beat sugar and butter substitute ten minutes, add cream, flours 
sifted with soda and mace, and add currants. Turn into greased 
and floured cake tin and bake in slow oven one hour. Do not 
ice this cake. 

Quick Coffee Cake 

2 cups (} lb.) flour 2 tablespoons honey or sirup 
i cup (2 ozs.) barley flour 1 egg, beaten 

1 teaspoon salt 1} cups (} pt.) milk 

3 teaspoons baking powder Melted butter substitute 

Powdered cinnamon and sugar 

Sift flours, salt, and baking powder into a bowl, add honey 
or sirup, egg, and milk. Beat well and turn into a greased and 
floured shallow cake pan ; brush over with melted butter sub- 
stitute and sprinkle with cinnamon and sugar. Bake in moderate 
oven thirty minutes. 

Another Method. Add to two cups bread dough, one beaten 
egg, one half cup sirup or honey, and one tablespoon melted 
butter substitute. Add no more flour. Put it into shallow 
greased pan to rise, and when light, brush over with melted 
butter substitute, then spread over a mixture of one tablespoon 
each brown sugar, butter substitute, and com flour. Lastly 
dust with sugar and powdered cinnamon and bake thirty minutes 
in moderate oven. 

Russian Cake 

2 eggs, separated 1 tablespoon cornstarch 

} cup (4 ozs.) sugar } cup (2 ozs.) floxu' 

2 tablespoons cold water 1 teaspoon baking powder 

1 teaspoon vanilla extract Orange frosting 



210 ECONOMICAL COOKEBT 

Beat yolks and white separately, then combine and beat with 
sugar ; add water, vanilla, cornstarch, flour, and baking powder 
sifted together. Mix carefully and turn into greased and 
papered tin. Bake in moderate oven thirty minutes. When 
cold cover with orange frosting made as foUows : Put strained 
juice of one orange into a bowl, add enough sifted confectioner's 
sugar to thicken, beat well, and spread over cake. 

School Cake 

1 cup a lb.) drippings 1 teaspoon powdered cinnamon 

1 cup (i lb.) sugar 1 teaspoon powdered ginger 
1 cup (i pt.) molasses or honey 1 teaspoon powdered cloves 

1 egg, beat^i 1 teaspoon baking powder 

1 teaspoon salt 1 cup (} pt.) cold coffee 

1 teaspoon vanilla extract 2 cups (1 lb.) seeded raisins 
1} teaspoons soda Flour 

Cream drippings, add sugar and beat again; add molasses, 
egg, salt, baking powder, vanilla, soda, spices, coffee, raisins, 
and enough sifted flour to make a batter that will drop in chunks 
from mixing spoon. The amount of flour will vary with the 
kind used, but the egg will prevent any danger of falling. Turn 
into well-greased and floured cake tin and bake in slow oven 
two hours. Take from oven, allow to cool in pan, then turn 
out. Cover with frosting and decorate with nut meats. 

Scotch Cakes 

2 cups (} lb.) flour 1 cup (} lb.) butter substitute 

1 cup (} lb.) barley flour 1 teaspoon powdered cinnamon 

2 cups (1 lb.) sugar, brown or 1 teaspoon powdered ginger 
white 2 eggs, beaten 

Mix flours and sugar, cut and rub in butter substitute, add 
spices and eggs, and mix to soft dough. Lift small lumps of 
dough with a knife and spread them out in the shape of a small 
roimd cookie on greased pan. Bake in moderate oven from ten 
to twelve minutes. 

Scotch Shortbread 

3 cups (} lb.) flour } cup (d ozs.) sugar 

1 cup (4 oass.) rice flour 1 cup (8 ozs.) butter or butter 

substitute 



CAKSS, FILLINGS, AND FROSTINGS 211 

Mix flours and sugar and sift on to baking board. Press 
moisture out of butter, using a clean towel for purpose, and 
place in center of flours and sugar. Many people are of opinion 
that only sweet butter should be used. This is not so ; butter 
slightly salted makes the best flavored shortbread. Proceed 
to work dry ingredients into butter by kneading ; keep plenty 
of flour between the hands and butter. When all is worked in, 
continue to knead, rubbing the paste well out across the baking 
board. This gives shortness. The paste should be smooth and 
free from cracks. Divide into two pieces, form into round 
cakes, pinch edges, and perforate center with a fork. Lay 
on a papered tin and bake in moderate, steady heat to a nice 
golden color from thirty to forty minutes. 

Allow to stand a little before attempting to lift. 

If liked, the cake may be ornamented with strips of candied 
peel, or smooth white candies, or may be left perfectly plain and 
thickly dusted with powdered sugar on being taken from the 
oven. 

This paste may also be used for cookies by rolling out to 
thickness required for such and by cutting into neat fancy 
shapes. 

Spice Cake 

1 cup (} lb.) sugar 2 teaspoons baking powder 

1 cup (i lb.) lard, or shortening 1 teaspoon powdered cinnamon 

1 cup (i pt.) molasses or honey 1 teai^K)on powdered ginger 

1 cup (} pt.) milk i teaspoon powdered nutmeg 

3 cups (12 ozs.) flour i teaspoon powdered cloves 

i cup (2 ozs.) com flour 2 eggs 

Cream sugar and lard, add molasses, milk, flours sifted with 
baking powder, and spices. Drop in eggs without beating and 
mix well into batter. Pour into well-greased and floured cake 
tin and bake in moderate oven forty minutes. 

If liked, cover cake with following chocolate frosting: Put 
ten-cent cake of milk chocolate into upper pan of double boiler 
and melt over hot water, then pour over cake, and sprinkle over 
with a few chopped nut meats. 

If desired, a few caraway seeds may be added. 



212 ECONOMICAL COOEERT 

Somerset Gingerbread 

1 cup (14 ozs.) molasses 1 teaspoon powdered cinnamon 

2 tablespoons (1 oz.) butter sub- i teaspoon powdered nutmeg 
stitute 1 egg, beaten 

li teaspoons soda } cup (1 gill) sour milk or cream 

1 tablespoon sugar 1 cup (4 ozs.) flour 

1 teaspoon powdered ginger i cup (2 ozs.) barley flour 

i teaspoon salt 

Into saucepan put molasses and butter substitute and bring 
them slowly to a boil, stirring so that butter substitute will 
dissolve and mix evenly with molasses. Mix soda, sugar, and 
spices and stir them into molasses and butter substitute. Mix 
egg and milk, add warm mixture to them, and stir in flours and 
salt. Pour into two warm buttered cake pans and bake slowly 
twenty-five minutes. The oven must be very moderate. 

Suffrage Gingerbread 

1 cup (i lb.) groimd rice f cup (1} gills) honey or molasses 

2 cups (i lb.) flour i cup (1 ^) milk or cream 
1 cup (4 ozs.) whole wheat flour 1 egg, beaten 

4 teaspoons baking powder 1 cup (4 ozs.) groimd almonds 

1 tablespoon ginger 1 cup (i lb.) butter substitute 

1 teaspoon mace 1 lemon 

i teaspoon salt 

Into a bowl sift rice, flours, baking powder, and spices. Melt 
molasses, add milk and butter substitute, and when dissolved 
pour among flours ; add grated lemon rind, egg, and salt. Pour 
into a greased and floured flat tin and bake in moderate oven 
forty-five minutes. Turn out and cool and cut into slices. If 
liked, the gingerbread may be frosted before it is cut. 

It is not generally known that gingerbread has been used 
since the fourteenth century. It was made then, and sold in 
Paris — so Monteil afltens, in his " Historic des Francais." It 
was prepared with rye meal, made into a dough, and ginger and 
other spices, with honey, were kneaded into it. It was intro- 
duced into England by the Court of Henry IV. for their festivals, 
and soon brought into general use. Since then it has retained 
its popularity, and contributed much to the pleasures of young 
and old. A great change was made in its composition after a 
while, and particularly after it was introduced into this country. 



Of 



J '/^ 



Usinii Elbotric Chafiku Uihh. 



Assorted Sandwich 



t( 



CHAPTER XVTII 

TOASTS AND SANDWICHSS 

With dainty chicken, snow-white bread.'' 



Sandwich is one of the most useful and appetizing forms of 
food. Most people can manage to eat a sandwich when other 
foods fail to appeal to them. The word " sandwich " originated 
in this wise: One Lord Sandwich, many years ago, was an 
ardent politician, and when Parliament was sitting used to 
spend the greater part of the evening at Westminster. Lady 
Sandwich, a wise wife and careful of her husband's health, was 
distressed at his going so long without a meal, so devised the 
plan of putting pieces of meat between bread for her spouse to 
eat without having the trouble of detaching himself from his 
duties. After a time the word became applied to other things 
so disposed besides meat and bread. 

Sandwiches are very tasty and relishing when made with 
tempting fillings. One of the most important things to be 
considered is the bread. New bread is best, but for inexpert 
cutters loaves just one day old are the best. A close-made 
bread should be chosen, or thin sandwiches will be a failure. 
The crust of the bread should be pared off before the slices 
are cut, and the slices cut into the very thinnest possible slices. 
The usual way of cutting sandwiches is square, in long fingers, 
or as crescents. Sandwiches for picnics should be wrapped 
in waxed paper to keep them moist or placed in a tin box lined 
with waxed paper. The butter should be creamed and it must 
be spread on evenly and thinly. 

Baked French Toast 

2 eggs, beaten 4 slices bread 

} teaspoon salt Butter 

1 cup (i pt.) milk Sugar 

Powdered cinnamon 

213 



214 BCONOMICAL COOKEBT 

Beat eggs with salt and add milk. Spread bread thickly with 
butter, place in greased baking pan and pour over them the 
custard. Place in hot oven until bread is lightly browned and 
egg is firm. Sprinkle with sugar and cinnamon and serve imme- 
diately. 

Another Method. Cut rounds of bread rather thick, about one 
inch. Brown nicely on both sides, then split in two, spread with 
butter on the soft sides. Sprinkle with pepper and celery 
salt. Beat up one egg, add salt and pepper to taste, spread on 
the toast and put in the oven imtil the egg sets and no longer. A 
little fish and white sauce, or egg sauce, could be used in this 
way. 

Cheese Toast 

4 slices bread, buttered 2 cups (} lb.) grated cheese 

1 cup a pt.) boiling milk i teaspoon salt 

1 cup (1 gill) cream } teaspoon paprika 

Toast bread, remove crusts, and cut in squares; butter 
while hot and plunge for an instant into hot milk, then place 
on hot plate and keep warm. Heat cream to boiling point, 
add cheese and seasoning? and stir constantly until cheese is 
melted. Pour over toast and serve. 

Rolled Cheese Toast is delicious. Take a loaf of fresh bread, 
and spread cut end with soft butter and then cut in thin slices. 
Remove crusts, sprinkle each piece with grated cheese of any 
kind, then roll comerwise, pinning each with small wooden tooth- 
pick. Arrange on a pan and brown in oven just before serving. 

Com Toast 

2 tablespoons (1 oz.) butter sub- i teaspoon pepper 

stitute 1 cup (i pt.) canned or fresh 
2 tablespoons (} oz.) flour com 

1 cup a pt.) milk or cream 1 pimiento, chopped fine 

} teaspoon salt Toast 

Blend butter and flour in a saucepan over the fire, add milk 
and stir untU boiling; add seasonings, com and pimiento. 
Make very hot and serve on slices of toast. 



TOASTS AND SANDWICHES 215 

Crab Toast 

2 tablespoons (1 oz,) butter sub- } cup (i gill) milk 

stitute 1 teaspoon salt 

1 tablespoon bread crumbe i teaspoon pepper 

1 tablespoon chopped parsley i teaspoon paprika 

1 cup (i pt.) crab meat, cooked 1 teaspoon lemon juice 

Toast biscuits, or thin slices toast 

Melt butter in a saucepan, add bread crumbs, parsley, crab 
meat and mix well ; then add milk and stir over the fire for a 
few minutes, and add sea8oning0. Spread on hot toasted bis- 
cuits or toast. Serve hot. 

Egg Toast 
Bread slices 2 eggfi, beaten 

Milk Sugar 

Powdered nutmeg 

Dip stale bread in milk, just to moisten and remove at once. 
Beat eggs, dip slices of bread in egg, then fry in smoking hot fat. 
When browned, drain, place on hot platter, sprinkle with sugar 
and nutmeg. Serve hot. 

Herring Roe Toast 

6 herring roes 1 egg, beaten 

1 tablespoon flour 4 tablespoons (2 ozs.) lard or 

1 teaspoon salt drippings 

1 teaspoon chopped parsley Hot buttered toast 

1 cup (4 ozs.) bread crumbs Paprika 

Lemon slices 

Wipe roes on a soft cloth, dust with flour and season with salt. 
Brush over with egg, toss in bread crumbs mixed with parsley. 
Heat fat in frying pan, and fry roes in it imtil brown color. Lay 
a roe on each finger-shaped piece of toast, sprinkle with paprika, 
and serve hot, garnished with small lemon slices. 

Kidney Toast 

2 sheep's kidnesrs 2 tablespoons milk or stock 

3 teaspoons butter 1 teaspoon salt 

i teaspoon flour } teaspoon pepper 

1 teaspoon chopped onion Hot buttered toast 

1 tablespoon chopped parsley 



216 ECONOMICAL COOKERY 

Remove skin and fat from kidneys and chop finely. Melt 
butter in a saucepan, add onion and fry for a few minutes, 
then add kidney and stir five minutes, sprinkle in flour and 
seasonings, and moisten with milk or stock. Cook two minutes, 
then arrange mixture on toast and cut into pieces, sprinkle with 
parsley, and serve very hot. 

Tongue Toast 

1 cup (4 ozs.) cooked tongue 1 tablespoon chopped parsley 

1 egg yolk Fingers buttered toast 

2 tablespoons white sauce Bread crumbs 

Remove all skin and gristle from tongue, and chop fine. Put 
it into a saucepan with yolk of egg, sauce, parsley, and heat over 
fire without allowing mixture to boil. Pour it on to toast, 
sprinkle thickly with bread crumbs and brown in oven. Serve 
hot. 

Veal Toast 

Slices hot buttered toast 1 tablespoon chopped onion 

Cooked veal, cut in small pieces 1 tablespoon chopped parsley 

1 tablespoon (} oz.) butter sub- 1 pinch soda 

stitute 1 teaspoon salt 

1 tablespoon cornstarch i teaspoon pepper 

1} cups (i pt.) milk, hot } teaspoon paprika 

2 hard-cooked eggs, sliced 

Fill platter with toast and keep hot in oven. Blend butter 
substitute and cornstarch in a saucepan over fire, add milk and 
stir until boiling ; add onion, parsley, soda, and seasonings and 
cook five minutes, then add veal and when all is smoking hot, 
pour over toast. Garnish with eggs and serve inunediately. 

Tomato and Cheese Toast 

i can tomatoes 1 teaspoon mustard 

i pound cheese } teaspoon salt 

4 tablespoons (2 ozs.) sugar 2 eggs, slightly beaten 

Toast 

Heat tomatoes, add cheese, and when it has melted, add 
seasonings and eggs. Serve on hot buttered toast. 



TOASTS AND SANDWICHES 217 

Finnan Haddie Toast 

1 large finnan haddie 1 egg yolk 

1 tablespoon oomstarch 1 hard-cooked egg, chopped 

1 tablespoon (i oz.) butter sub- i teaspoon salt 

stitute } teaspoon pepper 

1} cups (} pt.) milk, hot 1 tablespoon grated cheese 

Buttered toast 

Cut finnan haddie in small pieces, free from skin and bones. 
Blend cornstarch and butter in a saucepan over the fire, add 
milk and stir to boiling poiat, add yolk of egg, hard-cooked egg, 
and seasonings. Cook fish for a few minutes in a little hot 
dripping and add to sauce. Now add cheese and serve hot on 
toast. 

We toast bread, not merely to brown it, but to take out all the 
moisture possible, that it may be more easily moistened with 
the saliva and thus easily digested; then we brown it to give 
it a better flavor. If the slice be thick and carelessly exposed 
to a blazing fire, the outside is blackened before the heat can 
reach the inside. The moisture is not evaporated and makes the 
inside doughy ; and butter, when spread upon the bread, cannot 
penetrate it, but floats on the surface in the form of oil; the 
result is one of the most indigestible compounds. The correct 
way is to have the bread stale and cut into thin uniform slices 
and dried thoroughly before browning. Such toast moistened 
with milk or water may be easily and thoroughly acted upon by 
digestive fluids. 

Baked Bean Sandwiches 

1 cup (} pt.) baked beans 1 teaspoon made mustard 

1 tablespoon tomato catchup 1 teaspoon grated horse-radish 

1 teaspoon onion juice Slices buttered bread 

Rub beans through a sieve or colander, add catchup, onion 
juice, mustard, and horse-radish. Spread between bread. Cut 
into triangles. Or, mash one hard-oooked egg with two tablespoons 
melted butter, add one cup cooked sieved beans, season to taste 
with salt, paprika, and made mustard. Spread between buttered 
bread slices and cut in two across the slice. 



218 ECONOMICAL COOKEBT 



Beef and Egg Sandwiches 

1 cup (i lb.) cold chopped beef 2 tablespoons tomato catchup 

1 tablespoon butter, melted 1 teaspoon salt 

i teaspoon pepper 1 tablespoon Worcestershire 

2 hard-cooked eggs, chopped sauce 

1 tablespoon butter substitute 2 gherkins, chopped 

i teaspoon salt i teaspoon paprika 

Brown and white bread 

Mix together beef, catchup, butter, and seasonings. Pound 
eggs with butter substitute and gherkins, and add seasonings. 
Spread egg mixture on buttered slices of white bread, and beef 
filling on buttered slices of brown bread. Start first with the 
white bread, then the brown bread, and so on until you have five 
slices. Cut in squares and serve. 

Cheese and Olive Sandwiches 

1 cup (} lb.) grated cheese i tablespoon flour 

2 doaen olives, chopped fine 1 tablespoon sugar 

3 pimientoes, chopped fine i teaspoon mustard 
1 egg i teaspoon salt 

i cup (1 gill) sour cream Crisp lettuce leaves 

i cup (1 gill) vinegar SUces buttered brown bread 

Mix cheese, olives, and pimientoes together. Put egg, cream, 
vinegar, flour, sugar, and seasonings into a saucepan, stir and 
boil until it thickens, then add cheese mixture and cool. Spread 
on bread, put a lettuce leaf between, and press slices together. 

Cheese and Peanut Butter Sandwiches 

1 cup a pt.) cottage cheese Crisp lettuce leaves 

1 cup (i pt.) peanut butter Whole wheat bread 

Mix cheese with peanut butter and spread on buttered slices 
of bread, placed together with crisp lettuce leaf between. 

If there are left-over sandwiches on hand, try using them in 
this way. Dip each sandwich in a thick fritter batter, and fry 
a golden brown in plenty of smoking hot fat. Drain and serve 
hot, piled up on a pretty dish. 



TOASTS AND SANDWICHES 219 



Cheese, Olive, and Nut Sandwiches 

1 dill pickle^ chopped 1 small bottle stuffed olives, 

i cup (2 0Z8.) chopped English chopped 

weJnut meats 1 cup (i lb.) grated or cottage 

i cup (1 gill) mayonnaise dressing cheese 

Buttered slices brown bread Crisp lettuce leaves 

Into a bowl put pickle, olives, nuts, cheese, and dressing. 
Mix and spread between liberally buttered slices of brown bread. 
Before placing together, lay a lettuce leaf between the slices, 
cut with a biscuit cutter, and serve at once. 

A cheese and nut sandwich that is novel is made as follows : 
Into one cup of green-apple sauce, stir sufficient finely chopped 
nut meats to make a paste thick enough to spread upon well 
buttered brown or gluten bread which has already been spread 
with cream cheese. Gut into triangles and serve at once. 



Deviled Ham and Egg Sandwiches 

1 can deviled ham or tongue 2 hard-cooked eggs, chopped 

i cup (1 gill) French or mayon- } teaspoon salt 
naise dressing i teaspoon pepper 

Thin bread sUces 

Mix ham and egg|9 weQ, add dressing and seasonings. Mix 
again and spread on thin slic^ of bread which have had all 
crusts removed. 

Exchange Sandwiches 

1 pound boiled ham 4 sour pickles 

2 bell peppers 2 hard-cooked eggs 

1 small onion } cup (1 giU) mayonnaise dressing 

2 stalks celery Crisp lettuce leaves 

Thin slices buttered bread 

Put ham, peppers, onion, celery, and pickles through food 
chopper, mix with eggs cut in small pieces, and mayonnaise. 
Spread on lettuce leaves between bread slices. Cut into desired 
shapes. 



220 ECONOMICAL COOKERY 

Ham and Almond Sandwiches 

Mix equal parts ground ham and ground ahnonds, season to 
taste and moisten with thick sweet cream. Senre between thin 
slices of whole wheat bread. 

Fruit Sandwiches 

1 cup (} Ib.j stoned dates 2 cups (} lb.) chopped nut meats 

1 cup (i lb.) preserved cherries 1 tablespoon preserved ginger 

2 oups li lb.) figs Crackers, buttered 

Put dates, cherries, figs, nut meats, and ginger through food 
chopper. Place in greased baking-powder cans and press down 
well. Stand overnight, and when wanted for use dip cans in 
hot water and loosen contents with a knife. Cut into thin slices 
and place between crackers. Decorate each sandwich with a 
cherry. 

Lobster Sandwiches 

1 cup (i pt.) cooked or canned Anchovy essence 

lobster meat Chopped pickled gherkins or 

Mayonnaise or boiled dressing olives 

Salt and red pepper Buttered rolls or bread 

Chop lobster meat, moisten with salad dressing, season with 
salt, pepper, and anchovy, and spread on buttered rolls, or be- 
tween slices of buttered bread. Sprinkle over with gherkins or 
olives. If liked, one chopped, hard-cooked egg may be added to 
mixture. 

Nut Sandwiches 

1 cup (4 ozs.) chopped nut meats } cup (2 ozs.) sugar or honey 
} cup (1 gill) vinegar i teaspoon salt 

1 egg, beaten } lemon 

1 cup (} pt.) thick sour cream White or Graham bread 

Crisp lettuce leaves 

Bring vinegar to boiling point. Mix egg with sour cream, add 
sugar (or honey) and salt, and pour into hot vinegar. Stir until 
it reaches boiling point, remove from fire, and cool ; then add 
strained lemon juice and pour over nuts. This filling is better 



TOASTS AND SANDWICHES 221 

if allowed to stand several hours before using. Spread between 
slices of buttered bread. A lettuce leaf may be placed between 
slices if desired. 

Rolled Sandwiches 

Loaves bread Softened butter 

To make Rolled Sandwiches, cut bread in thin slices, having 
first shaved off all the crust from loaf. Pack slices one on 
another, and wrap in wet table napkin and leave one hour. 
Brush each slice of bread with softened butter, then roll and 
wrap firmly in waxed paper. Set rolls of paper in refrigerator 
and just before serving remove papers. The sandwiches will 
retain their roUed-up shape. 

Rolled Celery Sandwiches 

Rolled Celery Sandwiches are delicious. Take loaf of fresh 
bread, cut off crusts, and spread before slicing with creamed 
butter; dust with salt and pepper, and roll tightly around 
three small stalks of celery. The celery should be crisp and 
tender and cut in small strips of suitable length and dusted with 
fine salt while damp. 

Sausage and Pickle Sandwiches 

Left-over cooked sausages Salad dressing 

Pickles cut in small pieces Slices whole wheat bread, buttered 

Heat left-over sausages and cut fine, then mix with a few 
pickles, and moisten with salad dressing. Spread on bread and 
place two slices together. These sandwiches are excellent for 
picnics. 

Sweet Chocolate Sandwiches 

2 squares (2 029.) chocolate 1 cup (} lb.) sugar 

2 tablespoons cream i cup (2 oass.) nut meats, chopped 

1 tablespoon (} oz.) butter fine 

Slices buttered bread 

Melt chocolate over slow fire, add cream, butter, and sugar, 
and cook five minutes over hot water ; add nuts and mix. Let 
cool before spreading on bread. Cut in neat shapes and serve. 



222 ECONOMICAL COOKEBT 

Tomato Sandwiches 

li tablespoons (} os.) sugar 1 cup (i pt.) water 

1 tablespoon flour 1 tablespoon (} oz.) butter 

1 teaspoon salt } teaspoon red pepper 

1 teaspoon mustard Thick cream 

2 eggs, beaten Ripe tomatoes, peeled and sliced 
} cup (1 gill) vinegar thin 

Thin slices buttered bread 

In upper pan of double boiler mix sugar, flour, salt, and mus- 
tard; add eggs, vinegar, water, butter, pepper and cook over 
hot water until thick. Cool, and to every tablespoon of dressing 
add equal quantity of cream. Dip tomato slices into dressing 
and place between bread slices. Cut any shape desired. 

Cold Broiled Tomatoes make excellent sandwiches. Cut rounds 
of rye or oatmeal bread and butter them. Take firm, thick 
slices ripe tomatoes, brush over with beaten egg, toss in fine 
bread crumbs and fry in hot fat. Drain and brush over with 
melted butter and season to taste. Serve between the rounds of 
bread. 



CHAPTER XIX 

CHAFING-DISH COOKERY 

" How many thing^ by season seasoned are 
To their right praise and true perfection." 

Thb chafing dish was introduced to the fashionable world as a 
fad, but has remained as a fact. A desire to become an adept in 
tossing up various savory repasts has unconsciously led many 
a novice into the mysteries of cookery, bounded by broader 
realms than that occupied by the modest chafing dish. 

For impromptu collations what is so suggestive of congenial 
camaraderie as a steaming delicacy brought to perfection by the 
host and hostess and the friendly assistance of their guests? 

The chafing dish is invaluable for a hasty breakfast, a dainty 
luncheon, late supper, or Sunday-night tea. And nowhere does 
it give better service than in the sick room, where small quantities 
quickly prepared and served hot will often tempt a whimsical 
appetite. 

The ultimate success of cooking with a chafing dish depends 
largely upon the cook's familiarity with its various details. One 
need but put into operation certain common-sense rules. Cul- 
tivate the instinct of knowing how to make the most of the 
lamp, work quickly and with deft fingers, and have at hand the 
requisite utensils and condiments, so that time and the savori- 
ness of the repast need not be lost. 

Have the water pan about one third full of hot water — hot 
when convenient, as this saves time. Put blazer or food pan 
over it while water is heating. Use hot-water pan only when 
preparation requires slow cooking or one that bums easily. 

When great heat is called for, as in broiling, remove hot-water 
pan and put blazer directly over flame. To cook quickly, use 
only the blazer and have it well heated before beginning to cook. 

223 



224 ECONOMICAL COOKEBY 

It is well to keep on hand for serving a luncheon or supper such 
useful accessories as canned soups, lobster, salmon, shrimp^ 
sardines, tongue, peas, com, mushrooms, tomatoes, cheese, 
crackers, pickles, olives, and various relishes for fish and meat, 
besides canned milk. 

Absolute cleanliness is essential in keeping a chafing dish and 
its various parts in good order. Be sure not to allow any mois- 
ture to remain, as rust speedily follows. After finishing with the 
chafing dish, place it and the utensils into hot water to soak ; 
when allowed to dry overnight, the attendant scouring and 
scraping the next day will scratch and remove the finish either 
on nickel or silver. 

Apricot Custard 

6 preserved apricots 2 tablespoons sugar 

2 cups (1 pt.) milk 1 tablespoon potato flour or com- 

2 eggs, separated starch 

1 teaspoon lemon extract 

Gut apricots into small pieces and put them in a glass dish. 
Put milk, yolks of eggs, sugar, and potato flour, or cornstarch in 
blazer of chafing dish ; place blazer over boiling water and stir 
mixture until it thickens, then add extract, remove, and cool. 
When cold pour over fruit and place whites of eggs stiffly beaten 
with tablespoon sugar on top. Serve with cake. 

Barbecue of Poultry or Game 

2 cups (i lb.) cooked poultry or 4 tablespoons (2 02s.) butter sub- 
game stitute 

2 tablespoons vinegar 4 tablespoons tomato sauce 

2 tablespoons oil Salt and pepper 

1 small chopped shallot Pieces dry toast 

Cut poultry or game into thin slices. Mix oil, vinegar, shallot, 
and a little salt and pepper on a plate, and allow poultry or game 
to soak in this mixture thirty minutes. Melt butter substitute 
in chafing dish, add tomato sauce, and if liked two tablespoons 
sherry wine. Drain poultry and lay it in sauce. Season to 
taste, and heat thoroughly, but without boiling. Serve with 
dainty pieces of dry toast. 



CHAFING-DISH COOKEBY 225 

Bread Slices with Cheese 

4 slices bread 3 tablespoons grated cheese 

2 tablespoons (1 oz.) butter sub- i cup (1 gill) stock or milk 
stitute 1 teaspoon salt 

3 tablespoons chopped cooked i teaspoon pepper 
meat 

Remove crusts from bread, and cut into finger-shaped pieces. 
Melt butter substitute in blazer of chafing dish, fry bread brown 
on both sides and drain. Now put meat, cheese, stock, and 
seasonings into blazer, stir over lamp until very hot and then 
spread on the bread. Serve hot. 

Cake Surprises 

1 egg, well beaten Sponge or white cake 

1 cup (} pt.) milk 2 tablespoons (1 oz.) butter 

1 teaspoon vanilla extract Preserves 

Mix egg, milk, and extract together. Dip slices of sponge or 
white cake in batter and allow to soften. Melt butter in chafing 
dish and when hot fry cake brown on both sides. Spread a layer 
of preserves on each slice and place two together. Serve with 
any sweet sauce, or hot milk, or whipped and sweetened cream. 

Chicken k la Creole 

2 cups (1 pt.) canned tomatoes i teaspoon sugar 

1 small green pepper, chopped i teaspoon celery salt 

fine 2 cups (i lb.) cooked chicken, 
1 tiny white onion, chopped diced 

i teaspoon salt 1 tablespoon (} oz.) butter 

In upper half of chafing dish put tomatoes, add pepper, onion, 
and seafionmgs, and simmer, stirring frequently, until tomato 
sauce is quite thick. Add chicken and butter and serve as soon 
as chicken is heated through. 

Cod Tongues with Tomato Sauce 

12 cod tongues Flour 

Milk Hot fat 

Tomato sauce 



226 BOONOMICAL COOKBBT 

Wash tongues, dip in milk, then toss one by one in flour. Have 
hot vegetable oil or drippings in chafing-dish — enough to cover 
the bottom. Lay in tongues, keeping them separate, and cook 
three minutes on each side. When browned, draiu carefully, 
and serve with hot tomato sauce. 

Another Method, Fry tongues, keep them hot, and to fat 
remaining in pan add enough flour to thicken, add enough milk 
or cream to make a nice sauce and season with salt, pepper, and 
powdered nutmeg. Cook five minutes, add tongues, and heat ; 
then add one half tablespoon chopped parsley and pour over hot 
buttered toast. 

Cod Sounds. Soak sounds in warm water several hours. 
Scrape off skin, boil and serve with egg sauce on toast, or after 
heating slowly in milk pour thin white sauce over them and serve 
on toast with garnish of sliced hard-cooked egg, or fry, and serve 
with tomato sauce and parsley. 

Com Fritters 

1 can sweet com } teaspoon salt 

5 tablespoons (1} ozs.) flour } tea^x>on pepper 

i tablespoon sugar Cracker or bread crumbs 

Mix com with flour, add sugar and seasonings. Have ready 
a plate of crumbs and into these drop a tablespoon of the com 
mixture, tum with a knife and spoon (it requires both in handling 
as the batter should be quite soft) until well coated. Drop into 
the chafing-dish which is one half filled with hot fat. flatten 
with a knife so that the fritters will be round and fairly thin. 
Fry and brown thoroughly on both sides and serve hot. 

Another Method, Drain moisture from one can com. Chop 
com and add one cup flour sifted with one teaspoon baking 
powder, one half teaspoon salt, and one fourth teaspoon each 
pepper and paprika. Add beaten yolks two eggis and whites 
beaten to stiff froth. Fry in hot vegetable oil in chafing dish, 
drain and serve hot. 

Creamed Codfish 

1 glass shredded codfish 2 cups (1 pt.) milk 

4 tablespoons (2 ozs.) butter sub- i teaspoon pepper 

stitute i teaspoon paprika 

4 tablespoons (1 oz.) flour 2 egg whites, beaten 



CHAFING-DISH COOKBRY 227 

Rinse codfish in cold water and drain well. Melt butter 
substitute in chafing dish, stir in flour, and when smooth and 
bubbling, add milk, seasonings, and codfish. Simmer ten 
minutes and just before serving fold in egg whites. Serve at 
once on buttered toast, or in hot individual dishes. 

Creamed Crab Flakes 

2 hard-cooked eggs 1 cup (i pt.) cream 

3 tablespoons bread crumbs 1 cup (} pt.) crab meat 
1} tablespoons pimientoes i teaspoon salt 

(canned red peppers), chopped i teaspoon powdered nutmeg 

4 tablespoons (2 ozs.) butter sub- 1 teaspoon lemon juice 
stitute 

Chop whites of egg? and mash yolks, add bread crumbs and 

pimientoes. Melt butter in chafing dish, stir in egg mixture, 

add cream, crab meat, and seasonings. Stir until smooth and 

hot and serve at once in hot iadividual dishes. 

Deviled Bananas 

6 bananas } teaspoon salt 

2 tablespoons (1 02.) butter sub- } teaspoon paprika 

stitute 1 tablespoon chopped olives 

1 tablespoon chopped pimento Toast fingers 

Peel and scrape bananas, and cut them in halves. Melt 
butter substitute in chafing dish, add bananas, pimento, season- 
ings, and olives, and cook ten minutes. Serve hot on buttered 
fingers of toasted bread. 

Fish k la Reine 

2 cups (i lb.) boiled or canned I tablespoon (} oz.) butter 
fish 1 tablespoon flour 

1 cup H pt.) milk or cream 2 tablespoons finely chopped 

i teaspoon salt mushrooms 

} teaspoon paprika 1 egg yolk . 

1 tablespoon chopped parsley 1 teaspoon lemon juice 

Flake fish and remove bones and skin. Melt butter in chafing 
dish, stir in flour, add milk, and bring to boiling point. Now add 
mushrooms, seasonings, and fish, and heat carefully over hot 
water. Add egg yolk, parsley, and lemon juice. Serve very hot. 



228 ECONOMICAL COOKSBY 

Fried Beans 

2 cups (1 pt.) cooked beaos 1 teaspoon salt 

1 onion, chopped i tea^xx>n pepper 

1 teaspoon chopped parsley 2 tablespoons (1 02.) butter sub- 

stitute 

Mix beans with onion, parsley, and seasonings. Melt butter 
substitute in chafing dish, add bean mixture, cover chafing dish, 
and cook fifteen minutes. Stir occasionally and serve beans hot. 

Or melt two tablespoons butter substitute in blazer and when 
very brown add one tablespoon vinegar, one teaspoon salt, and 
one fourth teaspoon pepper. When hot pour over two cups of 
hot cooked beans. 

Fried Tomatoes 

Ripe or green tomatoes Salt and pepper 

Flour Hot fat 

Select large tomatoes of uniform size, cut them in slices one 
half inch thick, dip in flour seasoned with salt and pepper, and 
fry in hot fat in chafing dish until tender and brown. Serve with 
or without white sauce. If liked, tomatoes may be garnished 
with broiled bacon. 

Golden Buck 

i cup (1 gill) milk } teaspoon paprika 

2 cups (1 pt.) grated cheese Buttered toast 

i teaspoon made mustard Poached eggs 

Pour milk into upper pan of chafing dish and heat over hot 
water, then add cheese and seasonings. Stir constantly until 
cheese melts. Pour over toast, place poached eggs on top, dust 
lightly with salt, and serve at once. 

Macaroni, Cheese, and Tomatoes 

2 cups (1 pt.) cooked macaroni i cup (1 gill) tomatoes, canned 
1 green pepper, chopped } cup (1 oz.) grated cheese 

1 small onion, chopped i teaspoon salt 

4 tablespoons vegetable oil i teaspoon pepper 

Cut macaroni into neat pieces and then measm^ it. Heat oil 
in blazer of chafing dish, add pepper and onion, and cook twelve 



CHAFING-DISH COOKEBT 220 

minutes, stirring constantly. Add tomatoes, cheese, and season- 
ings, and serve in hot ramekins when cheese is melted. 

Cooked spaghetti or vermicelli may be used instead of 
macaroni. 

Mttshrooms with Eggs 

i pound muBhrooms } teaspoon pepper 

2 tablespoons (1 oz.) butter 2 tablespoons cream 

2 large eggs, beaten Small rounds buttered toast 

i teaspoon salt Parsley 

Wash, dry, and chop mushrooms ; melt butter in chafing dish, 
add mushrooms, fry four minutes, add eggfs, seasonings, and 
cream ; stir untiTset, then pile a small heap on each piece of toast. 
Garnish with pansley and serve hot. 

Mussels k la Marinidre 

26 to 36 mussels } cup (1 gill) mussel liquor 

3 tablespoons (1^ ozs.) butter f cup (1} gills) milk 

1 small onion, chopped fine 2 teaspoons chopped parsley 

2 tablespoons (i oz.) flour i teaspoon salt 

i teaspoon pepper 

Wash mussels and lift them out of water. Those that float 
on surface of water are not sound. Put mussels into hot water 
compartment of chafing dish, add small quantity water, cover 
and cook until mussels open. Drain and reserve liquor. Cut 
away the " beard ", the little black frill, with a pair of scissors, 
and mussels are ready for use. Melt butter in chafing dish, add 
onion, and cQok slowly for a few minutes. Stir in flour, add 
mussel liquor and milk, and stir till boiling. Simmer eight 
minutes, add parsley, seasonings, and mussels, and serve hot. 

Mussels are richer in protein than practically any other sea 
food and have the distinct advantage of being the most easily 
digestible. They are nutritious, wholesome, and inexpensive. 

Oysters k la Francesca 

30 oysters i teaspoon salt 

2 tablespoons (1 oz.) butter i teaspoon pepper 

4 tablespoons (1 oz.) flour } teaspoon powdered nutmeg 
1 cup (i pt.) milk or cream 2 egg yolks, beaten 

Croutons fried bread 



230 ECONOMICAL . COOKBBY 

Scald oysters in their liquor until plump, drain, and strain juice. 
Blend together in chafing dish butter and flour ; when smooth, 
add one cup oyster juice, milk, and seasonings, and cook five 
minutes. Add egg yolks and oysters, and stir until creamy. 
Serve hot on croiitons of fried bread. 



Sardines with Chili Sauce 

1 cup (i pt.) chili sauce 1 box sardineB 

Strips buttered toast 

Heat chili sauce in chafing dish, add sardines, and when very 
hot serve on buttered toasted bread. 

Thin slices of bacon fried in chafing dish and placed on hot 
buttered toast may be served with hot chili sauce poured over. 



Savory Peppers with Onion 

2 tablespoons (1 oz.) butter sub- 1 egg, beaten 

stitute 1 teaspoon salt 

i cup (2 ozs.) grated cheese ^ teaspoon pepper 

1 chopped green or red pepper i teaspoon paprika 

1 onion, chopped Buttered toast fingers 

Melt butter substitute in chafing dish, add cheese, green or 
red pepper, onion, egg, and seasonings. Stir and cook until well 
blended and serve on buttered toasted bread fingers. 



Sliad Roes 

Shad roes Flour 

1 teaspoon vinegar 2 tablespoons (1 oe,) butter 

Lemon slices 

Boil roes ten minutes in lower compartment of chafing dish in 
boiling salted water to which vinegar has been added. Drain 
and place in cold water ten minutes, then drain again, cut in neat 
pieces and dip in flour. Melt butter in blazer, lay in roes, and 
cook them evenly and quickly. Pour over a little melted butter 
and serve with lemon slices. 



POTTBD SaLMOK. PoffS S41- 



I Okioh. Page ISO. 



CoRKi-iii P*HTr. Page Si5. 



CHAFING-DISH COOILEBT 231 

Tomato Sauce and Eggs 

i can tomatoes 1 tablespoon (i os.) butter sub- 

} teaspoon salt stitute 

i teaspoon pepper 1 teaspoon flour 

1 teaspoon chopped onion 2 eggs 

2 teai^)oons chopped parsley Hot buttered toast 

2 tablespoons grated cheese 

Heat tomatoes in chafing dish with seasonings^ then thicken 
with butter rubbed with flour, simmer five minutes and strain. 
Heat this sauce, then slip into it the eggs and let them poach ; 
remove to toast, pour sauce around toast on a hot dish, and 
sprinkle with cheese. Serve hot. 

Tomato Wiggle 

} can (2 cups) tomatoes i cup (2 ozs.) sugar 

2 cups (} lb.) cheese, grated i teaspoon salt 

2 eggs, beaten Toasted bread 

Heat tomatoes in chafing dish, add cheese, and when melted, 
add eggs slightly beaten, sugar, and salt. Stir with a wooden 
spoon and cook three minutes. Serve at once on buttered toast. 

Tripe and Oysters 

1 pound honeycomb tripe i cup (1 gill) milk 

2 tablespoons (1 oz.) butter 25 oysters 

1 small onion, chopped fine i teaspoon salt 

1 tablespoon flom* } teaspoon pepper 

Boil tripe until perfectly tender and cut into neat, narrow 
strips. Melt butter in chafing dish ; add onion, then cover and 
cook until soft but not browned. Stir in flour and milk, and 
when boiling add tripe and oysters. As soon as gills of oysters 
curl, add seasoning? and serve very hot. 

Welsh Rarebit 

3 tablespoons (1} ozs.) butter i teaspoon paprika 

6 tablespoons (1} ozs.) flour 3} cups (1} pts.) milk, scant 

i teaspoon mustard I cup (} lb.) American cheese, 

i tea^x>on salt cut fine 

Toasted bread 



232 ECONOMICAL COOKEBY 

Melt butter in chafing dish, stir in flour, add seasonings and 
milk slowly. Cook five minutes, stirring constantly, then add 
cheese and continue stirring until cheese is melted. Serve hot 
with toasted bread, or on toasted bread. 



CHAPTER XX 

COLD MEAT COOKERT 

Cut and come again." 



u 



TwidhCOOKBD meat is not injurious unless it is heated in such 
a fashion as to render it hard and leathery, in which case undue 
strain is thrown on the digestive organs. This is especially 
unfortunate when it occiurs with individuals who are physically 
or mentally fatigued. Cold meat reheated is less nourishing, 
because no matter how careful the cooking process, a certain 
amount, however small, of the nutritive juices escapes during 
the first cooking, though retained and served as gravy. When 
the meat is reheated, this gravy having been used, and the juices 
which have escaped from the cut surfaces into the dish having 
dried, the meat contains not only less flavor, but also less nourish- 
ment. The cook, if she be wise, adds, to recompense these losses, 
various piquant flavorings, extra sauces, and so forth, producing 
finally a very savory and easily digested concoction, but still one 
actually less nourishing than a freshly cooked steak or cut from 
a joint, supposing them to have been correctly prepared in the 
widest sense of the term. In cases where meat has in the first 
instance been stewed to rags or badly over-roasted it has but a 
low food value, even when first served. It is necessary to bear 
in mind that meat should never be actually twice cooked; it 
requires not cooking, but, if possible, merely reheating. It is 
the faulty method of utilizing cold meat that has given it a bad 

name. 

Beef and Potato Cutlets 

2 cups (} lb.) cold cooked meat 1 teaspoon salt 

6 cooked potatoes, mashed i teaspoon pepper 

2 tablespoons (1 oz.) butter sub- I cup (} pt.) stock or water 

stitute 1 tablespoon chopped parsley 

4 tablespoons (1 oz.) flour 1 egg, beaten 

1 teaspoon Worcestershire sauce Bread crumbs 

233 



234 ECONOMICAL COOKERY 

Blend butter substitute and flour in a saucepan, add seasoning? 
and stocky and stir until boiling ; boil five minutes, then add meat, 
parsley, and potatoes, and mix thoroughly together. Allow to 
cool, form into neat cutlets, brush over with egg, toss in bread 
crumbs and fry m smoking hot fat, drain, and serve hot. 

Beef au Gratin 

1 cup (4 0K8.) cooked beef 1 tablespoon flour 

1 cup (4 ozs.) bread crumbs 1 cup (i pt.) stock or water, hot 

1 teaspoon chopped onion 1 teaspoon salt 

1 tablespoon (| oz.) butter sub- i teaspoon pepper 
stitute 1 teaspoon vinegar 

Put meat through food chopper, or chop it finely, add crumbs, 
and mix well. Lightly brown onion in butter, sprinkle in flour, 
and when browned add stock, stir untfl smootii, add seasonings, 
and mix in meat and crumbs. Pour into greased shallow fire- 
proof dish, cover lightly with crumbs (or mashed potatoes), dot 
with butter substitute, and brown in a hot oven. Serve hot. 

Beef Charlotte 

Stale bread Pepper and salt 

Gravy or stock Butter substitute 

Chopped cooked meat 1 onion, chopped 

Cut fairly thin slices from a stale loaf of bread, lay them on a 
platter, and poiur over sufficient gravy or stock to moisten without 
exactly soaking them. Grease a fireproof dish, line it with the 
bread, put in layer of cooked meat, onion, and seasonings, 
arrange second layer of bread on top, and repeat until dish is 
almost full, using a good layer of bread crumbs to roof iu the 
charlotte. Dot with butter substitute, bake in moderate oven 
one hour, serve hot in the same dish. 

Cold Meat Patties 

2 cups (8 ozs.) cold meat, } teaspoon pepper 
chopped , i cup (1 gill) stock or gravy 

1 tea^>oon salt 1 teaspoon chopped pamsley 

Pastry 



COLD MEAT COOKERY 235 

Grease gem pans, and line them with rounds of pastry. Mix 
meat with seasonings, stock, and parsley. Fill pans with mixture, 
cover with rounds of pastry, trim edges neatly, brush over with 
milk or beaten egg, and bake thirty minutes in moderate oven. 

The meat mixture may be put into timbale cases made as 
follows : Beat up one egg, add one cup flour, sifted with one 
half teaspoon each salt and baking powder, then add one table- 
spoon oil, and three fourths cup of milk, and beat well. Leave 
in cool pla.ce one hour. Heat timbale iron in hot fat, then dip 
into batter, turn into hot fat, and fry. Drain, fill with mixture, 
and heat in oven until thoroughly hot. 

Cooked Meat en Casserole 

2 pounds cooked meat i teaspoon pepper 

10 potatoes, peeled and sliced 2 carrots, sliced 
2 tablespoons (i oz.) flour 1 turnip, sliced 

1 teaspoon salt 1 onion, sliced 

Water or stock 

Cut meat into small pieces and roll in flour mixed with season- 
ings. Place alternate layers of vegetables and meat in a casse- 
role with a final layer of potatoes well sprinkled with salt. Fill 
with water or stock, cover closely, and cook four hours. Thirty 
minutes before serving remove cover so that potatoes may brown. 

The addition of one cup of cooked peas, either fresh or 
preserved, adds greatly to the flavor of this excellent dish. 
Dried peas soaked overnight and carefully cooked are also very 
good. 

Cottage Pie 

2 cups (8 028.) cold chicken 6 potatoes, sliced 

1 carrot, sliced 1 teaspoon salt 

1 turnip, sliced i teaspoon pepper 

1 onion, sliced 1 tablespoon soy bean flour 

2 cups (1 pt.) stock or water 

Line a greased pudding or fireproof dish with a layer of cold 
chicken cut in strips or slices, then put in a layer of the vege- 
tables, sprinkle a little of the flour on each layer, and season with 
salt and pepper. Now pour in stock or water and cover dish 



236 ECONOMICAL COOKSRT 

with lid, bake slowly UDtil vegetables are quite soft. Remove 
lid a short time before it is ready so as to brown nicely. 

Coquilles of Chicken 

6 tablespoons chopped cooked 1 tablespoon flour 

chicken 1 cup (i pt.) milk, hot 

2 tablespoons rice, cooked i teaspoon powdered mace 

2 tablespoons (1 oz.) drippings 1 teaspoon salt 

} teaspoon pepper 

Melt drippings, stir in flour and when smooth, add milk and 
stir until boiling, add seasonings, stir five minutes, add chicken 
and rice, and cook slowly with lid on pan fifteen minutes. Pour 
into hot ramekins, put in the oven for a few minutes, and serve 
hot. A poached egg is often placed in the center of each little 
dish of mince. 

Creamed Chicken in Bread Patties 

3 or 4 bread patties 1} cups (i pt.) white sauce 
li cups (} pt.) cooked chicken, i teaspoon celery salt 

diced Salt and pepper 

To Make PaUies, Use three roimds of bread for each patty, 
removing centers from the two upper layers. Moisten each slice 
with a little beaten white of egg and brown patties in moderate 
oven. Season sauce nicely and heat it with chicken ; divide into 
patties, garnish with parsley, and serve very hot. 

Curried Meat 

1 onion, sliced 1 cup (} pt.) stock or water 

2 tablespoons (1 os.) drippings, 1 apple, chopped 
melted 1 teaspoon salt 

1 tablespoon flour 1 cup (} lb.) cooked meat, sliced 

2 teaspoons curry powder 1 teaspoon lemon juice or vmegar 

Lightly brown onion in drippings, stir in flour and curry 
powder, and cook slowly twenty minutes, stir in stock or water, 
add apple and salt ; when boiling allow to simmer thirty minutes. 
Add meat and lemon juice and allow to cook thirty minutes. 

Boiled rice and chutney are usually served with curry. 



COLD MBAT COOKEBT 237 

Haricot Mutton 

H poundB cold cooked mutton 4 tablespoons (2 ozs.) butter sub- 

3 oups (1} pts.) stock or water stitute 

1 carrot, diced 4 tablespoons (1 oz.) flour 

1 turnip, diced 1 bunch herbs 

3 potatoes, diced 1 teaspoon salt 

1 onion, diced i teasixwn pepper 

This dish can be made with fresh meat just as well as with 
cooked. Cut meat into fairly thick slices, trimming off all but 
a tiny piece of fat. Put all bones and rough pieces of meat into 
a saucepan with stock or water, and let them simmer while 
vegetables are being prepared. Put vegetables into plenty of 
boiling salted water, cook until tender, and drain well. Melt 
butter substitute in a pan, put in carrot, turnip, and onion, and 
fry until slightly browned, lift them out, and put them in a fire- 
proof dish. Sprinkle flour into fat, and brown carefully, add 
two cups of stock and stir until boiling. Strain it into fireproof 
dish, add herbs, cover with lid, and simmer ten minutes. Add 
meat, potatoes, and seasonings, remove herbs, make meat very 
hot, and serve hot in the same dish. 

If liked, one cup cooked beans may be added. 



Hashed Meat 

2 cups (8 ozs.) cold meat, cut in 1 teaspoon salt 

thin slices i teaspoon pepper 

1 tomato, sliced 1 carrot, chopped 

1 onion, chopped 1 turnip, chopped 

2 tablespoons (1 oz.) butter sub- 1 tablespoon flour 

fltitute 2 cups (1 pt.) stock or water 

Put butter substitute into a saucepan, and when quite hot, 
brown in it onion and flour; add stock or water, and boil 
up, then add tomato, carrot, turnip, and seasonings^ simmer 
slowly one hour, lay in the meat, and cook gently thirty 
minutes. Dish meat neatly and strain over the gravy. Garnish 
with parsley and toast points, or in a border of hot mashed 
potatoes. 



238 ECONOMICAL COOKEBY 

Lamb wifh Peppers and Potatoes 

2 oup6 (1 pt.) cooked lamb, diced 1 teaspoon chopped onion 
1 cup a pt.) boiled potatoes, 1 teaspoon salt 

diced i teaspoon pepper 

i cup (1 gill) scalded green I teaspoon paprika 

peppers, diced 1 cup (i pt.) gravy 

1 eggplant, grilled 

Mix meat with potatoes, peppers, seasonings, and gravy left 
from roast — more gravy may be added if liked — and heat 
carefully. Serve on a hot platter covered with slices of nicely 
grilled ^gplant. 

Macaroni Ragodt 

i package macaroni 4 tablespoons (1 oz.) flour 

1 cup (} lb.) cold cooked meat 1 cup (i pt.) milk 
i cup (2 ozs.) grated cheese 1 teaspoon salt 

2 tablespoons (1 oz.) drippings i teaspoon pepper 

Boil macaroni in plenty of boiling salted water until tender, 
drain and cut it into lengths of two inches ; put it into a saucepan 
with the meat cut in strips, and add seasonings and reheat. 

Melt dripping? in another pan, add flour, stir until smooth, 
season to taste, add milk and cheese, bring to the boU and simmer 
eight minutes. Pile macaroni on a hot dish and pour over sauce. 
Garnish with pieces of buttered toast. Serve hot. 

Meat and Rice Balls 

1) cups (6 ozB.) chopped cooked } teaspoon paprika 

meat 2 eggs, beaten 

1 cup (7 OSS.) cooked rice } cup (1 oz.) bread crumbs 

1 small onion, grated Hot fat 

In a bowl mix meat, rice, onion, paprika, one of the eggs, and 
bread crumbs, make into small balls with floured hands, roll in 
remaining egg, toss in bread crumbs, and fry in smoking hot fat. 
Drain and serve hot. 

Meat and Spaghetti au Gratin 

2 cups (8 ozs.) cooked meat, 2 tomatoes, sliced 

chopped 1 teaspoon salt 

} package spaghetti } teaspoon pepper 

1 cup (i pt.) brown or white i teaspoon paprika 

sauce i cup (1 oz.) bread crumbs 



COU> MBAT COOKEBT 239 

Boil spaghetti in plenty of boiling salted water until quite 
tender, then drain and cut in small pieces. Grease a fireproof 
dish, put in meat, sauce, spaghetti, tomatoes, and seasonings, 
cover with bread crumbs, dot with butter substitute, and bake in 
moderate oven until well browned and well cooked, about three 
fourths of an hour. Serve hot. 

Meat and Turnip Croquettes 

1 cup (} lb.) cold meat, chopped 1 cup (4 ozs.) bread crumbs 

1 onion, chopped i teaspoon salt 

2 cups (1 pt.) cooked mashed i teaspoon pepper 
turnips 1 egg, beaten 

Mix meat with onion, turnips, bread crumbs, seasonings, and 
^g. Form into neat croquettes, roll in fine bread crumbs, dip 
in milk or beaten egg diluted with cold water, roll again in 
crumbs, and fry in plenty of smoking hot fat. Drain on paper 
and serve hot, garnished with parsley. 

Meat Chartreuse 

2 cups (} lb.) cooked meat 1 cup (4 ozs.) bread crumbs 

1 teaspoon salt 4 tablespoons (2 ozs.) drippings 

} teaspoon pepper 1 cup (i pt.) stock or water 

1 tablespoon chopped onion 1 egg, beaten 

2 cups (14 ozs.) boiled rice 

Into a bowl put meat, seasonings, onion, crumbs, drippings, 
stock, and egg. Line gr^ised mold with one cup of the rice, pour 
in mixture, cover with remaining rice, cover with greased paper, 
and steam one hour. Turn out on hot platter and serve with hot 
tomato sauce. 

Meat Fritters 

Thin slices cold cooked meat Salt and pepper to taste 

1 teaspoon Worcestershire sauce 1 egg, beaten 
1 tablespoon vinegar 1 cup (4 ozs.) flour 

Milk 

Pour vinegar into deep plate, add sauce and seasoning?, and 
lay meat in this mixture. Mix flour with egg and enough milk 



240 ECONOMICAL COOKERY 

to make it a fairly stiff batter. Beat well and set aside twenty 
minutes. Dip slices of meat into this batter and fry, a few at a 
time, in plenty of smoking hot fat. Drain and serve hot. 

Meat Souffle 

1 te.blespoon (i oz.) butter sub- } teaspoon pepper 

stitute i tablespoon chopped parsley 

1 tablespoon flour } teaspoon onion juice 

1 cup H pt.) milk 2 eggs, separated 

i teaspoon salt 1 cup (i lb.) cold meat, chopped 

Melt butter substitute, stir in flour, add milk, and stir until 
smooth, add seasonings, and cook one minute. Take from fire, 
stir in beaten yolks of eggs, and meat. Stir over fire until eggs 
have thickened a little and set aside to cool. Rub a little butter 
over the top. Beat up whites of eggs to a stiff froth and stir 
them lightly into cold mixture. Turn into greased fireproof 
dish and bake in moderate oven twenty minutes. Serve at once. 

Meat with Onion and Hard-Cooked Eggs 

2 onions, sliced 3 tablespoons grated cheese 

1 cup (} pt.) white or brown } cup (1 oz.) bread crumbs 
sauce 2 hard-cooked eggs, chopped 

2 cups (8 ozs.) cold cooked meat, Parsley 
chopped 

Boil onions in boiling salted water fifteen minutes, then drain. 
Put them into a saucepan with sauce and let simmer five min- 
utes, add meat, cheese, salt, and pepper to taste, and allow to heat 
thoroughly, but do not boil again. Pour mixture into greased 
fireproof dish, sprinkle over with crumbs and eggs, dot with 
butter substitute and brown in oven. Garnish with parsley and 
serve hot. 

Potted Cooked Meat 

2 cups H lb.) cooked meat Salt and pepper 

6 slices cooked bacon or Grated nutmeg 

2 tablespoons (1 oz.) butter } bouillon cube 

Small amount meat gravy 

Weigh meat after fat and gristle have been removed. Cut 
meat and bacon into dice ; then chop them well and pound them 



COLD MEAT COOKEBT 241 

until they have become a smooth paste. If bacon is not handy, 
divide butter into small pieces and pound these into meat. Add 
seasonings, a little of each at a time, being careful that they are 
well distributed. It is difficult to give the exact quantities of 
seasonings, for tastes differ, and the potted meat maker must use 
discretion in this matter. A little gravy or meat jelly improves 
the pulp, but it must be remembered that moist meat twms sour 
very quickly. 

When seasonings have been worked into the paste, place it in 
a small jar, cover with a saucer, and stand in a saucepan half f uU 
of boiling water. As soon as the meat is heated through, lift 
out the jar, stir imtil contents are cold, and press into shallow 
jars, smoothing the top with a wet knife. If for inmiediate use 
the meat need not be covered, but a layer of clarified butter or 
melted mutton fat will preserve it for several days. 

Potted Salmon 

2 cups (i lb.) cooked salmon 1 teaspoon vinegar 

4 tablespoons (2 ozs.) butter, 1 teaspoon salt 

melted } teaspoon pepper 

1 teaspoon anchovy essence i teaspoon powdered mace 

i teaspoon red pepper 

Remove all skin and bones from salmon and put it into a bowl 
or mortar, add three tablespoons of the butter, anchovy, vinegar, 
and seasonings. Pound until smooth and then rub it through a 
sieve. Pack mixture into small jars or pots, and run remaining 
butter over the top. This paste makes delicious sandwiches, 
especially if used with salad or a slice of cucumber or tomato. 

Any Idnd of cooked fish may- be potted in the same way. 

Steamed Salt Fish Mold 

2 cups (} lb.) cooked salt fish 1 cup (} pt.) milk, hot 
6 potatoes, boiled and mashed 2 eggs, separated 

2 tablespoons (1 oz.) butter sub- } teaspoon pepper 
stitute i teaspoon paprika 

Flake fish and mix with potatoes, add butter substitute, milk 
and yolk of eggs slightly beaten ; season with salt if needed and 
add paprika, pepper, and whites of eggs stiffly beaten. Mix well, 



242 ECONOMICAL COOKEBY 

and pour into a greased mold, cover with a greased paper and 
steam steadily thirty minutes. Turn out and serve hot. 

Scalloped Ham 

3 large slices cooked ham } teaspoon salt 

4 potatoes, sliced i teaspoon pepper 
1 carrot, chopped 1 tablespoon flour 

1 onion, chopped 2 cups (1 pt.) nulk 

2 tablespoons (1 os.) butter sub- } tablespoon parsley, chopped 
stitute 

Uncooked ham can be used equally well. Cut ham into large 
squares. Mix potatoes, carrot, and onion with flour and parsley. 
Spread butter substitute in a fireproof dish. Put vegetables, 
ham, and seasonings into dish in layers. Pour over milk, and 
bake in moderate oven until vegetables are tender. Serve hot. 



C5HAPTER XXI 

BREAKFAST, LUNCHEON, AND SUPPER DISHES 

" The true essentials of a feast are only fun and feed." 

Baked Finnan Haddie 

1 finnan haddie i teaspoon made mustard 

1 cup (} lb.) cheese, grated i teaspoon paprika 

4 tablespoons milk 1 egg, beaten 

Wash haddie and boil it in boiling water for eight minutes, 
then skin and cut it into small pieces. Place these in a well- 
greased fireproof dish and keep hot. Place cheese in a small 
saucepan, with milk and seasonings, and stir over fire until 
mixture is smooth, add egg, and pour over fish. Sprinkle over 
two teaspoons of brown bread crumbs and bake until brown. 
Serve hot. 

Baked Liver 

1 pound liver 1 onion, chopped 

i pound bacon, cut in pieces 1 teaspoon chopped parsley 

1 cup (4 OES.) bread crumbs 2 cold potatoes, sliced 

1 teaspoon powdered herbs 2 tablespoons (1 oz.) drippings 

1 cup (} pt.) water or stock 

Wash liver well and cut it into thin slices. Put a layer of 
this at bottom of greased baking dish. Mix together bacon, 
bread crumbs, herbs, onion, and parsley. Spread layer of this 
mixture over liver, and repeat the layers alternately until 
ingredients are used up. Pour in water, then put in layer of 
potatoes, dot here and there with drippings, and bake in moderate 
oven one hour. Serve hot. 

243 



244 ECONOMICAL COOKEBT 

Baked Marrow Pudding 

Slices bread 2 eggs, beaten 

Marrow, chopped i cup (1} ozs.) brown sugar 

1 cup (i lb.) seeded raisins } tecuspoon powdered nutmeg 

2 cups (1 pt.) milk 

Cut some stale bread, freed from crust, into thin slices, and 
line the bottom of a greased fireproof dish with them. Over 
this put a layer of marrow, sprinkle over with raisins, then 
layer of bread, and continue until dish is nearly filled. Beat 
eggs with sugar, add nutmeg and milk, pour this slowly over 
ingredients, and bake in a moderate oven for fifty minutes. 
Serve hot with hot milk. 

Celery and Oysters 

1 cup (} pt.) celery, chopped 1 tablespoon (i oz.) butter 

2 cups (1 pt.) oysters i lemon 

} teaspoon salt 4 tablespoons thick cream 

i teaspoon pepper Buttered toast 

Cook celery in ojrster liquor; if not sufficient add a little 
water. Add seasonings, butter, and strained lemon juice. 
When celery is transparent, add ojrsters and cook until edges 
curl, then add cream and serve on toast in a heated glass bell. 

Cheese and Potato Puffs 

1 cup (i pt.) boiled mashed 1 egg, beaten 

potatoes i teaspoon salt 

i cup (1 gill) hot milk i teaspoon paprika 

1 cup (4 ozs.) grated cheese 

Beat up potatoes with milk until thoroughly mixed, add egg 
and seasonings, and beat well together. Finally add cheese. 
Divide into greased gem pans, bake fifteen minutes, and serve 
very hot. 

Cheese and Potato Savory 

7 or 8 potatoes 4 tablespoons hot milk 

1 cup (i lb.) grated cheese J teaspoon pepper 

1 tablespoon (} oz.) butter sub- i teaspoon salt 

stitute 1 egg, beaten 



BBBAKFAST, LUNCHEON, AND 8UPPEB DISHES 245 

Boil potatoes,, drain, and mash them. Add to them cheese, 
butter substitute, milk, seasonings, and egg ; turn into a greased 
fireproof dish and smooth over with a knife or spoon. Bake in a 
quick oven fifteen minutes and serve hot. 

Cheese Custard 

2 eggs, beaten } teaspoon paprika 

i teaspoon mustard 1 pinch red pepper 

1 teaspoon salt 2 cups (1 pt.) milk, hot 

i teaspoon pepper 1 cup (} lb.) grated cheese 

Beat eggs with seasonings, pour over milk, stirring all the time, 
then add cheese and pour into a greased pudding dish, sprinkle a 
little cheese over top, and bake in a moderate oven thirty-five 
minutes. Serve hot with toast or crackers, or serve with hot 
tomato sauce. 

Cornish Pasties 

2 cups (} lb.) barley flour } pound steak, diced 

2 cups (i lb.) flour 1 onion, chopped 

1 cup (i lb.) butter substitute 2 potatoes, diced 
1 teaspoon salt i teaspoon pepper 

Cold water 

Mix meat, potatoes, onion, and seasonings and add four 
tablespoons water. Into a bowl sift floius and salt, cut and rub 
in butter substitute, and make into stiff paste with cold water. 
Roll out one fourth inch thick on a baking board, cut into squares 
six inches across, place some of meat mixture in center of each 
piece of pastry, wet edges with cold water, fold over, and press 
together. Place on greased baking tins and bake in moderate 
oven three fourths of an hour. Serve hot. 

Another Method. Take a few slices cold cooked meat, one 
slice onion, salt and pepper to taste, one skinned tomato, two or 
three cooked potatoes, and some pastry. Roll pastry out into 
large rounds; chop meat, onion, and tomato together, season 
to taste, and place in centers of pasties; mash potatoes and 
pile them on top ; fasten edges of pastry together on top, and 
bake in hot oven twenty minutes. Make a small hole in top of 
each pasty, pour in a little good gravy, and return to oven for a 
few minutes. Serve hot. 



246 BGONOHICAL COOKBBT 

A Chicken Pasty is made of chopped oooked chicken with 
slices of hard-cooked eggs, flavored with salt, pepper, and paisley. 

In Ck>mwall clotted cream is used for moistening the contents, 
and the result is delicious. 

Bacon and Potato Pasty is made from slices of parboiled pota- 
toes and cold fat bacon; or, potatoes and odds and ends of 
cooked ham or tongue moistened with milk and seasoned with 
salt and pepper may be used. 

Onion Pasty is made in much the same way, except that 
sliced onions or shallots are substituted for the bacon. 

Apple Pasty is made with raw apples — a soft cooking kind is 
the best. Peel, core, and slice them and sprinkle slices thickly 
?7ith brown sugar. No water is necessary for this pasty, as 
juice of apides gives all that will be required. 

Deviled Kidneys 

3 sheep's kidne3ni } teaspoon salt 

2 tablespoons (1 oi.) butter sub- i teaspoon mustard 

stitute } cup (1 gUl) stock or water 

1 onion, chopped 1 teaspoon lemon Juice 

1 teaspoon curry powder 1 egg, beaten 

Bread crumbs 

Split kidneys and cut them in small pieces, removing white 
center and skin. Melt butter substitute in saucepan, add onion 
and fry a few minutes, then add kidney and seasoningis, mix well 
and pour in stock. Cover and cook slowly thirty minutes, 
draw pan to one side, and stir in ^g. Fill greased individual 
dishes with mixture, sprinkle over crumbs, and dot with butter 
substitute. Brown them in a hot oven and serve hot. 

Farina Cakes with Cheese 

i cup (3 on.) farina 2 eggs, separated 

2 cups (i lb.) cheese Bread crumbs 

1 teaspoon salt 1 cup (i pt.) milk 

i teaspoon pepper 2 tablespoons (1 oz.) butter sub- 

1 bay leaf stitute 

Put milk into a saucepan, add bay leaf and butter substitute ; 
when it boils stir in farina and let it cook ten minutes, stirring 



BBBAKFA8T, LUNCHEON, AND SUPPEB DISHES 247 

all the time. Add seasonings, yolks of eggs, and one tablespoon 
of the cheese gratied, stir over the fire until it thickens, turn out 
on a plate, and allow to cool. Cut cheese into rounds about 
three fourths inch in diameter. When mixture is cold, stamp 
out rounds same size as the cheese ; fasten four rounds of the 
latter with alternate roimds of cheese on a skewer, and proceed 
thus until all the mixture and cheese is used up. Beat up whites 
of eggs, add a little water, dip each prepared roll in the egg, 
cover with bread crumbs, and fry in smoking hot fat to a golden 
brown. Drain and remove skewers. Garnish with parsley 
and serve hot. 

Fish Rarebit 

1 tablespoon (| ox.) butter 1 cup () pt.) milk 

i teaspoon onion juice 1 cup (3 ozs.) chopped cheese 

1 tablespoon cornstarch 1 cup (4 ozs.) cold cooked fish 

i teaspoon salt 1 egg, beaten 

i teaspoon paprika } tablespoon lemon juice 

Crackers or toast 

Melt butter, add onion juice, cofnslarch, and seasonings. 
Pour on gradually milk, add cheese and fish, and stir carefuUy 
o^^r fire. When cheese is melted, add egg and lemon juice. 
Serve very hot on crackers or toast. 

Fresh Herring Pie 

3 fresh herrings 1 tablespoon chopped onion 

Browned bread crumbs 4 tablespoons (2 ozs.) butter sub- 

3 tomatoes, skinned and sliced stitute 

1 tablespoon chopped parsley Salt and pepper 

1 cup (i pt.) stock or water 

Split open herrings, take out backbones, and remove heads. 
Cut each fish into three or four pieces. Grease a fireproof dish 
and coat it well with browned crumbs; then put in layer of 
fish, next one of tomatoes, and on these sprinkle parsley, onion, 
salt, pepper, and a few crumbs. Then another layer of fish and 
so on, until dish is fuU. Pour in stock or water and cover top 
thickly with crumbs. Dot with butter substitute and bake in 
moderate oven thirty minutes. 



248 BCONOMICAL COOKBBT 

Haddock and Tomatoes 

1 haddock) fresh or dried 2 large tomatoes, skinned and 
i cup (2 ozs.) rice sliced 

2 tablespoons (1 oz.) butter sub- 1 teaspoon chc^^)ed onion 
stitute i tablespoon chopped parsley 

i teaspoon salt i teaspoon pepper 

Wash fish and cook it in a hot oven or over fire five minutes. 
Then remove bones and dark skin. Cook rice in plenty of boiling 
salted water until tender. Drain off water and wash rice by 
pouring over it some boiling water. Melt butter substitute in 
saucepan, put in onion, and fry a light yellow, add tomatoes and 
fish. Simmer fifteen minutes, or until all ingredients seem well 
cooked. Season to taste. Put rice on one side of hot platter 
and fish mixture on other side, sprinkle with parsley, and serve 
hot. 

Ham Breakfast Loaf 

3 cups (i lb.) bread crumbs i cup (3§ oas.) boiled rice 

1 tablespoon onion juice 1 tablespoon chopped parsley 

1 egg, beaten 1 teaspoon salt 

2 cups (8 ozs.) chopped ham i teaspoon pepper 

1 tablespoon Worcestershire i cup (1 gill) white sauce 

sauce 

Mix bread crumbs, onion, egg, ham, Worcestershire sauce, 
rice, parsley, seasonings, and sauce. Press it into greased 
moid, bake in moderate oven forty minutes. Serve hot. 

This may be served cold, cut in slices, or dipped in beaten egg 
and bread crumbs, fried, and served hot. 

Ham Patties and Eggs 

i cup (2 ozs.) chopped cooked } teaspoon salt 

ham i teaspoon pepper 

} cup (2 ozs.) bread crumbs i cup (1 gill) niilk 

1 teaspoon chopped parsley Eggs 

1 tablespoon (} oz.) butter 

Mix ham with bread crumbs, add seasonings, and milk. Form 
into nests, break an egg into each, sprinkle with bread crumbs, 
dot with butter, and bake in moderate oven imtil white of egg 
is firm. Serve hot. If liked, a little mustard may be added. 



BBEiLKFAST, LUNCHEON, AND SUPPER DISHES 249 



Marrow bones 



Marrow Bones 

Flour and water pastry 
Hot toasted bread 



Many consider marrow bones a great delicacy. They may 
be either boiled or baked. If the latter, the bones are merely 
sawn into pieces about six inches long, the ends covered with a 
piece of paste made of flour and water — this is to prevent the 
marrow from melting out — and baked in a moderate oven in 
a deep dish for two hours. 

If boiled, cut bones in six-inch lengths, cover ends with flour 
and water paste, then tie up each bone in a small floured cloth ; 
stand bones upright in pan of fast boiling water, taking care to 
see that water covers them. Boil them two hours, then remove 
cloths and paste. Whether baked or boiled, have ready some 
neat squares of toasted bread, then either place a bone on each 
piece, having first pinned a dean table napkin around it; or 
spread marrow on toast, sprinkle k with salt, pepper, and a little 
chopped parsley. This must be done very quickly, as this dish 
wiU be considered a failure unless it is thoroughly hot. 



Minced Steak Pie 



1 pound lean steak, minced 
1 teaspoon salt 
i teaspoon paprika 
i teaspoon celery salt 



1 egg, beaten 
i cup (1 gill) milk 
} cup (2 ozB.) butter substitute 
1 cup (4 ozs.) flour 
Gold water 



Mix steak with seasonings, egg, and milk and turn into a 
fireproof dish. Cut and rub butter substitute into flour, add 
one fourth teaspoon salt and sufficient water to make a stiff, 
smooth paste. Boll out, place on top of meat, brush over with 
milk, and bake in moderate oven thirty minutes. Serve hot 
with any preferred vegetable. 

Noodles with Cheese 



2 cups (} lb.) flour 

1 tablespoon (i oz.) butter 

1 egg, beaten 

} teaspoon salt 



i cup (1 gill) hot white sauce 
2 tablespoons grated cheese 
i teaspoon pepper 
i teaspoon nutmeg 



250 ECONOMICAL COOKERY 

Sift flour into a bowl, add butter and rub it in, add egg, salt, 
and]]^enough cold water to make a very stiff paste. Roll out 
very thin, fold it and then cut fine, and let it stand loose two 
hours. Sprinkle these noodles into fast boiling salted water and 
cook ten minutes ; drain and reheat in a little melted dripping?. 
Add sauce, cheese, and seasoningis and turn into greased fireproof 
dish. Sprinkle over with grated cheese and a few browned 
bread crumbs, and pour over a little melted butter substitute 
on top. Bake until hot and serve at once. 



Salt Codfish Balls 

1 cup (} lb.) salt codfish } teaspoon pepper 

2 cups (1 pt.) boiling water 3 tablespoons (H ozs.) butter 

3 cups (1} pts.) hot mashed 3 tablespoons cream 
potatoes 1 egg, beaten 

i teaspoon salt Bread or cracker crumbs 

Pick up codfish, put it into a saucepan, and pour over boiling 
water. Bring to boiling point and simmer fifteen minutes. 
Drain thoroughly. Have potatoes ready, add to them season- 
ings, butter, cream, and codfish. Form into balls or small cakes, 
dip in egg, and toss in crumbs. Fry in plenty of smoking hot 
fat and serve hot with com bread. 



Sardines with Sauce 

N 

1 can sardines 1 teaspoon vinegar 

} cup (1 gill) brown sauce 4 tablespoons milk 

} cup (1) OEB.) Sultana raisins } teaspoon salt 
i teaspoon made mustard } teaspoon pepper 

Fried breaid slices 



Take sardines from can, scrape them carefully, remove bones, 
and heat sardines in oil from can. Warm sauce in small saucepan, 
add raisins, mustard, vinegar, milk, and seasonings ; make very 
hot, but do not boil. Cut bread shape of sardines, place on 
hot dish, then place a sardine on each, pour over sauce, and serve 
hot for luncheon. 



 



BB£A£FAST, LUNCHEON, AND SUPPER DISHES 251 

Sausages in Potatoes 

1 pound pork sausages 1 egg, separated 

2 cups (1 pt.) mashed potatoes } teaspoon salt 

1 tablespoon milk i tea^Kwn pepper 

Grilled tomatoes 

Parboil sausages ten minutes, then, when they are cool, 
skin and cut them in halves lengthwise. Beat up potatoes with 
milk and egg yolk, then season carefully and reheat. Lightly 
flour a baking board, take a small piece of potato, flatten it, and 
lay a piece of sausage on it. Fold over potato to hide sausage, 
smoothing it with a knife dipped in flour. Roll croquettes thus 
obtained in bread crumbs, brush with white of egg beaten to a 
stiff froth, and cover a second time with crumbs. Fry in plenty 
of smoking hot fat, drain, and serve hot with tomatoes. 

Sausage Loaf with Brown Sauce 

1 pound pork sausages 3 tablespoons milk or cream 

1 cup (i lb.) bread crumbs 2 teaspoons chopped parsley 

1 egg, beaten } teaspoon salt 

3 tablespoons chopped bacon or } teaspoon pepper 
ham Browned bread crumbs 

Brown sauce 

Grease a mold and dust it over with the browned bread crumbs. 
Skin sausages, put meat into a bowl, add bread crumbs, bacon, 
egg, milk, parsley, and seasonings. Mix well and place in 
prepared mold. Cover with groused paper, stand mold in 
baking tin, pour in a little boiling water, and bake in moderate 
oven thirty minutes. Turn out and serve with hot brown sauce. 

Savory Potatoes 

5 cups (2i pts.) chopped cold 2 tablespoons finely chopped 
boiled potatoes parsley 

2 tablespoons finely chopped 2 teaspoons salt 
onion i teaspoon pepper 

2 tablespoons chopped pimen- 3 tablespoons (1} oss.) butter 
toes (canned red peppers) substitute 

Into a bowl put potatoes, add onion, pimentoes, parsley, 
seasonings^ and butter substitute. Turn into hot frying pan^ 



252 fiCONOMlCAL COOKERY 

spread evenly, cook slowly until well browned underneath. 
Fold and turn like an omelet and serve hot. The pimentoes 
may be omitted. 

Tomatoes with Cheese 

3 tomatoes 1 egg, beaten 

} cup (2 OSS.) grated cheese 1 cup (4 ozs.) bread crumbs 

1 tablespoon (i oz.) butter sub- 1 teaspoon salt 
stiiute i tea^x>on pepper 

Toast 

Peel tomatoes and cut them into slices; put them into a 
saucepan with butter and cook until soft, add egg and stir until 
mixture is thick, add seasonings, cheese, and crumbs. Serve 
hot on buttered toast. This makes a tasty supper or luncheon 
dish. Or the mixture may be put into small jars, covered with 
melted butter, and used for sandwiches. 

Tripe, Parisienne Style 

1 pound tripe, diced 1 can tomatoes 

2 mediumnsized onions, sliced fine 1 clove garlic, sUced 
2 green peppers, cut small 1} teaspoons salt 

} teaspoon paprika 

Into saucepan put tripe, add onions, pepp^«, tomatoes, and 
garlic, mix and cook slowly one hour or longer, taking care the 
mixture does not bum. When tripe is almost ready, add season- 
ing9. Serve hot or cold. If eaten cold, it will be found to be a 
thick jelly, a delicious dish. A little water may be added, but 
no thickening should be used. 



CHAPTER XXII 

VEGBTARIAN DISHES 

" Give us a taste of your quality." 

BsfOBB making vegetarian dishes it is necessary to know some- 
thing about the kinds of food required by the body, and whether 
the vegetable dishes we are going to substitute for meat wiU 
supply these needs. The body, to be kept in health, requires food 
containing the following elements : 

1. Proteids, or flesh-forming substances, which build up the 
body and repair waste in the tissues. Too little of these in the 
food causes debility and wasting; and excess gives rise to 
rheumatism, gout, and kidney trouble. 

2. Carbohydrates (starches and sugars), the energy producers, 
giving capacity for work to the muscles and organs. Too little 
causes a condition in which the proteids or flesh formers are 
diverted from their work of repairing waste in order to supply 
energy, and wasting results. Too much of these foodstuffs 
causes doggmg of the body and the formation of adipose tissue. 

3. Fats, which give heat. A sufficient quantity is very 
necessary, but an excess causes dyspepsia and biliousness. 

4. Salts and vegetable acids, which purify the blood. Too 
little causes irritation, ^'heated" blood, and various skin 
diseases. 

5. Water, a very necessary element essential to form the 
medium in which all the other foodstuffs are dissolved and made 
able to be absorbed ; to keep the tissues moist, the saliva flowing, 
and the other glands and excretions in working order. All food 
contains a certain amoimt of water, ia various proportions accord- 
ing to its character, but plain water to drink is necessary as well. 

253 



254 ECONOMICAL COOKERY 

Vegetables contain these principles of food necessary for the 
body, but on a purely v^^table diet it is a difficult matter to 
get them in the right proportions, as usually there is an excess 
of the sugars and starches. 

When such animal foods as milk, butter, cheese, and eggs are 
permitted, a perfectly balanced diet can be planned, and these 
foods are used by all but the strictest vegetarians, because they 
are not flesh foods, and, therefore, are permissible from the 
humanitarian point of view. 

The difficulty with most people is to know how much of the 
necessary elements are contained in various foods, or how much 
is needed to keep the body in health. 

As a rough guide to the amount, a man doing ordinary work 
requires about twenty-three ounces of food that is free of water. 
As all food contains an average of fifty to sixty per cent . of water, 
just over double this amount must be allowed to get the full 
amount of nourishment — about forty-eight ounces, or three 
pounds, in twenty-four hours. 

This quantity is subject to various conditions — age, sex, 
climate, the kind of work to be done, and the nature of the food 
chosen. A child natiu^y needs much less than a man or 
woman ; hot countries require a dietary that differs from that 
suitable for cold climates ; hard manual workers need more food, 
especially those that supply heat and energy, than do sedentary 
workers. Some foods are more concentrated than others — 
contain less water than the average — and go further for their 
weight, such as cheese ; some contain a large amount of fat, 
as butter. 

Fresh vegetables and fruits are watery or " bulky ", and supply 
some of the moisture needed by the body. 

All these considerations modify the actual amount, but within 
a little, about forty-eight ounces of solid food and three pints 
of liquids should be allowed for each adult. 

The food chosen must " balance " well, that is, supply not 
only the quantity but the right kinds of food in correct propor- 
tions; one rich in proteids should be served with others rich 
in the remaining food elements — rice with curry. 

Proteids or flesh formers should form, roughly, about one part 



VEGETARIAN DISHES 255 

to every eight of ordinary solid food containing an average 
amount of water. Thus, in one pound of food the proportions, 
omitting very small fractions, would be about: Proteids one 
and two thirds ounces, fats one ounce, carbohydrates five ounces, 
salts one third ounce, water eight ounces. 



Baked Peanut Pudding 

1 cup (i lb.) barley 1 cup (i pt.) tomatoes 

1 cup (1 lb.) peanuts, chopped 1 egg, beaten 
1 cup (i lb.) bread crumbs 1 teaspoon salt 

1 onion, chopped \ teaspoon pepper 

1 tablespoon (} oz.) butter substitute 

Cook barley thirty minutes in boiling salted water, drain, 
and keep liquor for stock. To barley add nuts, bread crumbs, 
onion, tomatoes, egg, and seasonings. Mix well and pour into a 
greased fireproof dish, sprinkle over a few crumbs, dot with 
butter substitute, and bake in moderate oven one hour. Serve 
hot. 

Beans and Potatoes en Casserole 

1 cup {\ pt.) cooked beans 1 cup (} pt.) white sauce 
6 cooked potatoes } teaspoon salt 

2 onions, sliced } teaspoon pepper 

4 tablespoons (2 ozs.) butter sub- 3 tablespoons hot milk 
stitute 

•Rub one half of potatoes through a sieve, add two tablespoons 
of the butter substitute, seasonings, and milk, and heat thor- 
oughly over the fire. Grease a fireproof dish and line sides and 
bottom with potato mixture. Fry onions in remainder of butter 
substitute until they are a golden brown color. Place layer of 
beans in prepared dish, then layer onions, add seasonings, cover 
with sauce; repeat layers until dish is full. Cut remaining 
potatoes into thin slices, cover top with these, dot top well with 
butter substitute, place in oven, and bake until browned. 
Serve hot. 

Peas may be used in place of beans. 



256 ECONOMICAL COOKEBT 

Bean Pies 

3 cups (U ptB.) cooked beans 2 large egg|9, beaten 

i cup (4 oasB.) butter subetitutei 1 square chocolate, grated 

melted 1 tablespoon flour 

1 cup (} lb.) sugar or honey Pastry 

Rub beans through a sieve, add butter substitute, sugar, eggs, 
chocolate, and flour. Beat five minutes and divide into two 
pastry-lined pie plates and bake in moderate oven twenty to 
twenty-five minutes. 

Bread Sooffl6 

2 cups (i lb.) stale bread i teaspoon salt 

2 eggs, separated i teaspoon pepper 

1 cup (i pt.) tepid water } teaspoon papiika 

i cup (1 gill) tepid milk 1 tablespoon (i oz.) batter sub- 

1 cup (4 ozs.) grated cheese stitute 

Cut bread in small pieces, removing crusts. Soak bread in 
water and milk twenty minutes, then drain it, and pound or rub 
through a sieve. Add yolks of eggs, cheese, seasonings, and 
whites of eggB stiffly beaten. Pour into a well-greased ^teproot 
dish, sprinkle with grated cheese, dot with butter substitute, 
and bake in moderate oven twenty-five minutes. Serve hot. 

Carrot and Rice Croquettes 

2 cups (1 pt.) boiled carrots 2 eggs, beaten 
2 cups (14 on.) boiled rice 1 teaspoon salt 

2 mediumnsized onions, chopped i teaspoon pepper 

2 tomatoes, skinned and chopped } teac^xxin celery salt 

Put carrots through food chopper into a bowl, add rice, onions, 
tomatoes, ^gs, and seasonings. Form into neat croquettes, egg 
and bread crumb, fry in smoking hot fat, drain, and serve hot. 

Cheese and Tomato Savory 

1 cup (i pt.) canned or fresh 1 cup (4 ozs.) cheese, cut small 

tomatoes } teaspoon salt 

i tablespoon chopped onion } teaspoon paprika 

Toast fingers, buttered 

Stew tomatoes and onion ten minutes, add cheese and cook 
until it is soft, add seasonings, and serve on toast. 



VEGETARIAN DISHES 257 

Cheese and VenniceUi Patties 

i pound pastry 4 tablespoons grated cheese 

i cup (4 ozs.) vennioelli i teaspoon salt 

2 tablespoons (1 oz.) butter or oil i teai^xx>n pepper 

2 teaspoons flour i teaspoon made mustard 

f cup (li gills) milk Brown or tomato sauce 

Roll out pastry very thin and cut it into rounds a little larger 
than tartlet tins to be used. Allow two rounds for each tin. 
Line tins with pastry and let bottom rounds be thinner than top 
ones. Boil vermicelli in plenty of boiling salted water twelve 
minutes. Do not salt water so much that it cannot be used 
afterwards. It is excellent as a foundation for a sauce or soup. 
Drain vermicelli and break it with a tork. Melt butter, stir in 
flour, add milk or vermicelli water, and stir until sauce boils, and 
cook five minutes. Add vermicelli, cheese, and seasonings, and 
mix well. Divide into pastry-lined tins, moisten edges of pastry, 
lay on upper rounds, press together, brush over with milk, and 
bake in hot oven for about twenty minutes. Serve hot with 
tomato or brown sauce, and, if possible, with spinach or some 
other nicely-prepared green vegetable. 

Chestnut Fritters 

24 chestnuts 1 teaspoon salt 

i cup (1 oz.) bread crumbs i teaspoon pepper 

1 tablespoon (i oz.) butter sub- 1 egg, beaten 

stitute Tomato sauce 

Boil chestnuts until tender, then peel and mash well. Add 
bread crumbs, butter substitute, seasonings, and most of the egg. 
Shape into small cakes, brush with remainder of egg, toss in 
browned crumbs, and fry in smoking hot fat. Serve with tomato 
sauce. 

Chestnut Custard 

26 chestnuts } cup (2 ozs.) sugar or honey 

i cup (1 gill) water 2 eggs, beaten 

1 cup (} pt.) milk, hot 

Wash chestnuts and make a slit in shell of each with a sharp 
knif e« then put them into a saucepan of boiling water ; boil ten 



258 ECONOMICAL COOKEBT 

minutes, drain, and peel off both shell and inner skin. Put 
chestnuts thus prepared into a saucepan with the water, and 
cook gently until very soft, then rub them through a sieve. 

Canunel 
3 ounces lump sugar i cup (1 gill) water 

1 teaspoon lemon juice 

Put ingredients for caramel into a small saucepan and allow to 
cook until a light brown color ; pour into a heated mold, turning 
mold round and round until caramel coats it uniformly. Beat 
up eggs with sugar or honey, pour milk over, stirring all the time, 
and allow to cool, then add chestnut pur^ and pour into prepared 
mold, cover with greased paper, and steam gently one and one 
half hours. Turn out and serve with sweet sauce or stewed fruit. 

Chestnuts are very nourishing and should be eaten as much 
as possible while they are cheap. But to get their full value 
they must be well cooked. 

Curried Vegetables 

3 onions, chopped i lemon 

4 tablespoons (2 ozs.) butter 2 cups (1 pt.) stock or water 
substitute 4 cups (1 qt.) cut cooked vege- 

1 tablespoon curry powder or tables 

paste Boiled rice 

1 tablespoon flour 1 pimento, shredded 

1 tablespoon chopped parsley 2 hard-cooked eggs, quartered 

Peel onions and fry them in butter substitute to a nice brown 
color; add curry powder, flour, parsley, stramed lemon juice, 
and stock. Simmer twenty minutes, add vegetables, such as 
turnip, peas, carrot, cauliflower, string beans, etc. Mix carefully, 
and cook slowly ten minutes. Arrange rice in a border on hot 
platter, put vegetables and sauce in center. Garnish with 
pimento, or lemon slices, and eggs. Serve hot. 

Dried Pea Kedgeree 

1 cup (} pt.) dried or split peas 1 teaspoon salt 

} cup (} pt.) barley, cooked } teaspoon pepper 

i cup (2 ozs.) butter substitute 1 hard-cooked egg, chopped 

2 tablespoons tomato pulp Fried onion rings 



iixuuovr Bo!IE^< 



CUHHIKU VK<^tT*Ul.t9. /'(If/E ~'SS. 



SrLiT Fkas ash Onwks. J'age iD-3. 



Steh-eu Ki9ii. Page i72. 



Cabbauu and IIai 



VEGETARIAN DISHES 259 

Soak peas overnight in cold water, drain, and place in cold 
salted water to cover; bring to the boU, then simmer until 
peas are tender, then drain. Put peas and barley in greased 
fireproof dish, add butter substitute, tomato pulp, and season- 
ings ; allow to heat in the oven. Serve garnished with egg and 
onion rings. 

Rice may be used in place of the barley. 

Or, add to one cup cooked peas, one chopped onion, three 
tablespoons melted butter substitute or vegetable oil, one half 
teaspoon sugar, one teaspoon salt, one half teaspoon pepper, 
and three tablespoons milk or stock ; allow to heat thoroughly 
and serve hot in a hot vegetable dish. 

Dried peas, like dried beans and lentils, contain a very great 
amount of nourishment; but they must be well cooked, and 
previous soaking is a necessity. 

How to Make and Use Cottage Cheeee 
4 quarts skim milk Salt 

This quantity of milk will make about one and one half poimds 
of cheese. Pour milk into a clean saucepan and allow to remain 
in a warm place at a temperature of about 75° F. until it clabbers. 
This will take about thirty hours, and if the process has to be 
hastened, a small quantity of sour milk may be mixed with the 
sweet milk. As soon as the milk has firmly clabbered, cut it 
into pieces two inches square, then stir curd with a spoon. 
Place pan of curd in a vessel of hot water so as to raise tempera- 
ture to 100° F. Cook at that temperature for about thirty 
minutes, during which time stir gently with a spoon for one 
minute at five-minute intervals. Pour curd and whey into 
cheesecloth bag and hang up to drain. After ten minutes, work 
curd toward the center with a spoon. Stop draining when whey 
ceases to flow in a steady stream. Now work curd with a 
wooden spoon until it becomes fine and smooth in grain. Sour 
or sweet cream may be added to improve flavor. Add one tea- 
spoon salt to every pound of curd. If liked, add a little melted 
butter, form into neat balls, and serve very cold. The balls may 
be rolled in bread crumbs, browned in hot butter, and served hot. 



260 ECONOMICAL COOKEBT 

Cottage Cheese Sandwiches Are ExceUerU. To every cup of 
cheeee add two tablespoons cream, one half cup chopped stuffed 
olives, and one fourth cup chopped nut meats. Spread between 
thin slices of bread. 

Jerusalem Articlioke Pudding 

1 cup (i pt.) artichoke pui6e 1 teaspoon salt 

1 cup (i pt.) milk } teaspoon pepper 

2 eggB, separated 1 teae^xwn grated lemon rind 

Mix artichoke pur6e with milk and beaten yolks of eggs, add 
seasonings, and fold in stiffly beaten whites of eggs. Pour into 
greased pudding dish and bake in moderate oven thirty minutes. 
Serve hot in the same dish. If preferred, the mixture may be 
baked in smaU molds. 

To prepare the artichoke pur^. First wash and brush arti- 
chokes, then peel them, and as each one is done, throw it into a 
bowl of clean cold water to which a few drops of vinegar have 
been added. Drain artichokes and throw into a saucepan of 
boiling salted water ; boil with lid on pan until they are tender 
or easily pierced with a skewer. They may be boiled in milk, 
or milk and water, instead of plain water, and this can after- 
wards be used for soup or sauces. Or the artichokes may be 
steamed, but they will require a longer time to cook. Then 
take some of the cooked artichokes, rub through a sieve, and 
measure one cup ; this makes the pur6e. 

Lenta Rolls 

1 cup (} pt.) lentils i teaspoon pepper 

2 cups (i lb.) bread crumbs } teaspoon powdered nutmeg 
1 teaspoon salt 1 egg, beaten 

Tomato or brown sauce 

Wash lentils and then tie in cloth, leaving room to swell. 
Boil four hoims in plenty of water and turn into a bowl, add 
bread crumbs, seasonings, and egg. Form into neat rolls, flour 
weU, and fry in smoking hot fat. Drain an4 serve hot with 
tomato or brown sauce, 



VEGETABIAN DISHES 261 

Macaroni with Sauce 

1 lb. macaroni 1 cup (} pt.) tomato sauce 

1 cup (} pt.) brown gravy 1 cup (i lb.) grated cheese 

Boil macaroni in plenty of boiling salted water for three 
fourths of an hour. Drain and put into a saucepan, add gravy 
and sauce. Make very hot, tiun into a hot dish, sprinkle 
cheese over top, and serve at once. 

Oatmeal and Apple Pudding 

1 cup (3 ozs.) fine oatmeal i cup (1} ozs.) brown sugar 

1 cup (2 ozs.) flour or potato 1 teaspoon grated lemon rind 
flour 2 tablespoons cream 

} teaspoon salt li cups (} pt.) stewed apples 

2} cups (li pts.) milk Honey or sirup 

Mix together oatmeal, flour, salt, and one half cup of the 
milk. Into a saucepan pour remainder of milk, add sugar and 
lemon rind ; bring to boiling point and stir in oatmeal mixture. 
Continue to stir until it boils, then simmer ten minutes. Stir 
in cream. Pour half of mixture into greased fireproof dish, 
next put in apples, then pour in remainder of mixture. Bake 
in moderate oven thirty minutes. Serve hot, with honey or 
sirup. 

Okra with Com and Tomatoes 

2 cups (1 pt.) okra, sliced 1 tablespoon (} oz.) butter sub- 
2 cups (1 pt.) com, cut from cob stitute 

1 cup (i pt.) milk or water 1 onion, chopped 

2 teaspoons flour 1 teaspoon salt 

2 cups (1 pt.) tomatoes, sliced i teaspoon pepper 

Wash and remove stem ends of okra pods, cut into thin slices, 
and. fry ten minutes in butter substitute ; add com, milk, or 
water mixed with flour, tomatoes, onion, and seasonings. Mix 
well and pour into greased pudding dish and bake in moderate 
oven thirty minutes. Serve hot. 

Potted Beans 

1 cup (i pt.) beans } teaspoon pepper 

1 teaspoon salt 2 tablespoons (1 oz.) butter 

i teaspoon powdered nutmeg 



262 ECONOMICAL COOKERY 

Soak beans overnight in cold water, pour off water, pick them, 
and put into a saucepan covered with water. Let them cook 
in the oven six hours. Strain off liquid and keep it for stock, 
then mash or pound beans, add seasonings and butter. Put 
into small pots or jars and cover with clarified butter. 

This mixture makes a fine sandwich filling. 

Savory Lentils 

4 cups (1 qt.) lentils 1 tablespoon chopped parsley 

4 tablespoons (2 ozs.) butter sub- 2 cups (1 pt.) gravy or Stock 

stitute 1 teaspoon salt 

1 small onion, chopped i teaspoon pepper 

Wash and soak lentils overnight, then drain them. Melt 
butter substitute in a saucepan, put in lentils, onion, seasonings, 
parsley, and stock, and cook gently with lid on pan until lentils 
are a soft mass. Take off lid and stir over fire until any liquid 
not already absorbed by lentils has evaporated. Beat well 
together, heap it in a hot dish, and serve at once. 

Savory Nut Loaf 

1 cup (} lb.) chopped nut meats 2 teaspoons butter 

1 cup (7 ozs.) hot boiled rice 1 tablespoon chopped parsley 

1 cup (i pt.) mashed potatoes 2 tablespoons bread crumbs 

2 eggs, beaten 1 teaspoon salt 

1 lemon, grated } teaspoon pepper 

1 onion, chopped } teaspoon paprika 

2 tablespoons (1 oz.) lard, melted 

Mix in a bowl nuts, rice, potatoes, eggs, grated lemon rind, 
onion, butter, parsley, bread crumbs, and seasonings; mold 
into a loaf, put into greased pan, pour over lard, and bake in a 
moderate oven forty minutes. 

Split Peas and Onions 

1 cup (} pt.) split or dried peas 4 tablespoons stock or water 
Salt and pepper to taste 2 tablespoons (1 oz.) butter sub- 

3 cloves stitute 

1 bunch herbs 1 teaspoon brown sugar 

4 cooked and sliced onions 



VEGETARIAN DISHES 263 

The dried peas make a very good winter vegetable when 
fresh peas are not obtainable. Soak ovenxight in cold water, 
then drain and rinse them in fresh cold water. Put peas in 
saucepan, cover well with cold water, and bring slowly to the 
boil ; add cloves and herbs and continue cooking three hours. 
More water must be added from time to time if peas become too 
dry. Drain and return peas to saucepan, add stock, butter 
substitute, seasonings, and sugar ; mix well, pour into center 
of hot dish, and arrange onions cut in rings on top. 

Sweet Potato and Nut Croquettes 

6 large sweet potatoes 1 egg, beaten 

1 teaspoon salt } cup (1 oz.) blanched and 

2 tablespoons (1 oz.) butter chopped abnonds 

3 tablespoons hot cream 

Wash potatoes and bake until tender. Scoop out pulp and 
force through a ricer into a bowl. Add salt, butter, egg, almonds, 
and cream. Mix and mold into balls. Roll in fine bread crumbs, 
brush over with beaten egg or milk, and again in bread crumbs. 
Fry in smoking hot fat and drain on paper. Serve hot. 

Succotash 

2 cups (1 pt.) cooked beans 1 cup (} pt.) cooked or canned 

2 tablespoons (1 oz.) butter sub- com 
stitute 1 teaspoon salt 

i teaspoon pepper 

To prepare beans, soak overnight two cups Lima beans, drain, 
and add boiling water to well cover and cook until tender; 
add seasonings, butter substitute, and allow to reheat. Serve 
hot. 

To prepare com, remove silk but not husks until it is to be 
boiled. Place com in saucepan of boiling water, not salted, 
cover pan to prevent steam escaping. Do not use a large 
quantity of water and boil fifteen minutes; drain and cut 
com from cob. 

Com may be served on cob with salt, pepper, and butter. 



264 ECONOMICAL COOKEBT 



Vegetable Pie 

i package macaroni, cooked 3 tomatoes, skimied and diced 

1 large onion 3 tablespoons bread crumbs 

1 carrot 1 tablespoon chopped parsley 

3 stalks celery Vegetable stock or gravy 

1 cup (i pt.) green peas Salt and pepper to taste 

Pastry 

Cut macaroni into short lengths. Cut onion, carrot, and 
celery into small cubes and boil until tender in boiling salted 
water. Drain and mix them with macaroni, tomatoes, bread 
crumbs, parsley, and seasonings. Moisten weU with stock or 
gravy, or the water in which vegetables have been boUed. Turn 
mixture into a greased fireproof dish and cover neatly with 
pastry. Bake in a moderate oven thirty minutes, or until 
pastry is cooked. 

If pastry is not convenient, cover top of pie with mashed 
potatoes, or with thin slices of tomato, or with a layer of bread 
crumbs and tiny bits of butter. 

The vegetables may be varied with the season. 



Vegetarian Roast 

1 cup (i pt.) soy beans 2 eggs, beaten 

i pound spaghetti, cooked 1 cup (4 ozs.) chopped coconut 

2 onions, chopped 1 teaspoon chopped parsley 
2 tablespoons (1 os.) butter sub- i teaspoon celery salt 

stitute i teaspoon pepper 

1 cup (4 oas.) bread crumbs 

Soak beans twelve hours. Cover with boiling water and cook 
three hours. Drain and put them through a food chopper, add 
bread crumbs, onions cooked in butter substitute, eggs, coconut, 
parsley, and seasonings. Mix well and press into a well-greased 
tin. Bake in moderate oven one hour, basting frequently. 
This is nice served with brown gravy hot from the oven ; but 
it is also good cold cut into slices like meat and eaten with 
salad, or pickled beets. Any kind of nuts may take the place 
of the coconut. 



VEGETARIAN DISHES 265 

Vennicelli with Tomato Sauce 

i package vennicelli, crushed 3 tablespoons grated cheese 
2 tablespoons (1 ox.) butter sub- 1 teaspoon salt 

stitute i teaspoon paprika 

1 cup (i pt.) tomato sauce i teaspoon pepper 

Fingers fried bread 

Boil vermicelli in plenty of boiling salted water fifteen minutes, 
then drain. Melt butter substitute in a saucepan, and when hot 
put in vermicelli, tomato sauce, cheese, and seasonings; stir 
over the fire until cheese is melted, cook gently five minutes, then 
turn out on to a hot dish, garnish with bread, and serve very 
hot. 



CHAPTER XXra 

INVALID COOKERY 

" Whate'er is best administered is best.'' 

The preparation and cooking of food for invalids deserves far 
greater attention than is usually bestowed. Not only should 
the amount and quality vary according to the nature of the 
disease, but every little detail in its subsequent arrangement 
and serving is of vast importance to sick people, the aim in 
invalid meals comprising not only the due repair of wasted 
tissues, but the esthetic value of appearances in the invalid's 
capricious eye. 

Apart from the special diets appointed by medical men in such 
cases as diabetes, gout, corpulence, and similar diseases, an 
invalid approaching the convalescence stage from any other 
direction is usually permitted a fairly wide latitude in the ques- 
tion of food. But even then restrictions must always be com- 
plied with: First, the food should be of a really nourishing, 
or, at any rate, refreshing nature ; and, second, it must be pre- 
sented in easily digestible form. 

Apple Custards 

1 cup (} pt.) apple pulp 2 tablespoons (1 oz.) butter, 

1 cup (i pt.) milk melted 

4 tablespoons (2 ozs.) sugar 2 eggs, beaten 

Few preserved cherries 

Prepare apple pulp by rubbing stewed or baked apples through 
a sieve. Mix piur^ with milk, sugar, butter, and eggs. Divide 
into four greased fireproof dishes and bake in moderate oven 

26Q 



INVALID COOKERY 267 

twenty minutes. Decorate with cherries cut in halves and 
serve hot or cold. Other fruit purto may be used in the same 
way. 

Baked Fish 

1 filleted flounder, fresh haddock, 2 tablespoons (1 ob.) butter sub- 

or whiting stitute 

Salt and pepper i lemon 

Grease a plate, and lay fish on it with skin side upwards. Put 
it in the oven five minutes, and then you will be able to pull the 
skin off quite easily. 

Melt butter substitute in a flat dish, lay fish on it, and put 
dish into brisk oven eight to ten minutes, according to thicknesB 
of fish. 

Baste fish twice in the course of cooking. Take out, sprinkle 
it with salt and pepper, and squeeze juice of lemon over. Serve 
hot. 

Baked Smelts 

4 smelts } cup (1 gill) stock 

Lemon slices 

Clean smelts and cut off heads. Place them in buttered fire- 
proof dish with stock and salt and pepper to taste. Cover with 
lid and cook twenty minutes. Serve in same dish garnished 
with lemon slices. 

Barley Water 

3 tablespoons (2 ozs.) pearl 1 tablespoon (} os.) sugar 
barley 1 lemon 

2 cups (1 pt.) boiling water 

Wash barley in several waters, put it with sugar and lemon 
rind into a pitcher, pour water over, and keep infusion covered 
as tightly as possible. When cold, strain and serve. This is 
thin barley water. 

Thick Barley Water. Proceed in the same way, but allow 
barley to sinmier in three cups water for at least one hour. Then 
strain and serve. The barley can be used a second time, but it 
is then not so nourishing. 



268 BCONOMICAL COOKERY 

Barley water is often mixed with milk, the lemon in this case 
being omitted. This is considered a very light and nourishing 
drink, and having no decided taste, is usuaUy a favorite with 
invalids. 

To Serve Barley Water with Fruit. Make one cup thick barley 
water, flavor it with one teaspoon lemon juice, add two table- 
spoons sugar or honey, and one tablespoon gelatine dissolved in 
one half cup hot water, and stir over fire for a few minutes. Pour 
into a wet ring mold, and when firm turn out and put stewed 
fruit or preserves in center, and serve. 

Beef Tea 

Steak Water 

1 pinch salt 

Buy the best steak. Take a sharp pointed knife, and holding 
it closely by the pointed end, shred meat fine, and mix it with an 
equal quantity of cold water in an earthenware jar or dish. Heat 
of any kind coagulates the juices, and if possible the water 
should be soft as well as cold. Add salt, which will help in ex- 
tracting the juices more quickly from the meat. Cover jar, and 
set away in a cool place overnight. 

Place jar at bottom of moderately hot oven, where it must 
remain from one to three hours, according to amount. Two 
cups of beef tea usually take two hours to cook slowly through. 
The oven should remain at the same temperature throughout the 
cooking. The best test is by the color of tea when removed from 
oven. It should be of a rich, brown color, with no red or raw 
traces. The substance is usually strained from the liquor, 
though in cases where an iavalid is able and allowed to digest it, 
a portion of the meat particles may be permitted to pass through. 
Some substance will always pass through even the finest strainer, 
but if the beef tea be cooked satisfactorily, this substance should 
not easily separate nor sink to bottom of cup. 

All suspicion of fat globules must be removed from surface 
with pieces of grease-proof paper, and if the tea appears to be 
greasy even after this application, it will be found safer to leave 
it to get cold, and then remove all fat after it has solidified. 
Serve tea piping hot with dry toast cut in dice. 



INVALID COOKERY 269 

Brains In Batter 

2 sets brains 2 egg yolks 

Salty pepper, vinegar 1 egg white 

1 onion, sliced 1 tablespoon (i oz.) butter, 

) canot, slioed melted 

1 bay leaf 4 tablespoons milk or cream 

i cup (2 osB.) flour Chopped parsley 

This recipe will do equally well for calf's, sheep's, or pig's 
brains. The first is considered the best, but the other two may 
be used with good results. Soak brains in salted cold water 
several hours, changing water occasionally. Now put them in 
a pan with boiling water, add onion, carrot, salt, bay leaf, and a 
little salt and vinegar. Cook gently twenty minutes. Drain 
and cut into convenient sized pieces. Beat up egg yolks, add 
flour, butter, a very little salt and pepper, and beat well ; then 
add milk and white of egg beaten stiff. Have ready a pan of 
smoking hot fat, dip each piece of brain into batter, drop it into 
fat, and fry it a golden brown. Drain and'serve hot, sprinkled 
with, parsley. 

Chicken Broth 

1 small chicken 1 crust bread 

1 blade mace 6 cups (3 pts.) water 

1 sprig parsley Toasted bread squares 

Skin and chop up a small chicken or half a large fowl, put it 
into a saucepan, add mace, parsley, crusts of bread, and water, 
and simmer two hours. Strain and serve with toasted bread 
squares. 

Another Mdhod, Divide one chicken into joints, put it into 
a saucepan with six cups water, one fo\u*th teaspoon peppercorns, 
pinch of salt, and one tablespoon pearl barley ; bring slowly to the 
boO, and skim thoroughly ; simmer very slowly two hours, strain 
and serve. 

Cream of Chicken for Diabetics 

1 cup (4 ozs.) raw chicken meat 1 egg 

5 tablespoons whipping cream Salt and white pepper 



270 ECONOMICAL COOKEBT 

A diabetic patient is allowed plenty of cream, butter, e^s, 
bacon, ham, meat, poultry, fish, cheese, nuts, and green vege- 
tables. The chief point is to remember that all sugar and foods 
which supply sugar must be avoided. Starch and starchy foods 
are changed into sugar during digestion, therefore they too must 
be abstained from. 

Saccharin must be used in place of sugar, but this must be 
added with care, for too much of it gives quite a disagreeable 
flavor. 

Put chicken through food chopper, then pound it; while 
doing so, add to it egg and seasonings. Rub mixture through 
a sieve. Whip cream and stir it in lightly. Pour into a 
buttered mold, cover with buttered paper, and steam gently 
until it is just firm. It will take about thirty minutes. Turn 
out on to a hot dish and pour cream sauce over it. 

Cream Sauce 

i cup (1 gill) white stock 2 eggs, beaten 

} cup (1 gill) cream 

Boil stock, then let it cool for a minute. Beat up eggs, mix 
them with cream, then strain both into stock, stirring over fire 
until it is hot; do not let it boil. Season carefully and it is 
ready. 

Evaporated Milk Jelly 

2} tablespoons (} oz.) powdered 2 cups (1 pt.) hot water 

gelatine 6 tablespoons sugar 

1 cup (i pt.) cold water 1 teaspoon vanilla extract 
8 tablespoons evaporated milk 1 teaspoon lemon extract 

Mix gelatine with cold water and dissolve over hot water. 
Put milk and hot water into upper pan of a double boiler, add 
sugar, and bring to boiling point, then add dissolved gelatine 
and extracts. Strain into a wet mold and place in refrigerator 
overnight. Turn out and serve with milk or custard. 

Invalid Soup 

2 teaspoons sago 1 cup (i pt.) strong beef tea or 
2 egg yolks mutton broth 

Salt and pepper 



INVALID COOKERY 271 

Boil sago until it is clear in a small quantity of boiling water. 
Make beef tea hot, then add drained sago. Beat up yolks and 
strain them into soup ; reheat it carefully, but on no account let 
it boil. Season to taste and serve very hot. 

/ Irish Moss Pudding 

1 ounce Irish moss 4 tablespoons (2 oxs.) sugar 

4 cups (1 qt.) milk i teaspoon vanilla extract 

Wash moss thoroughly in warm water. Put it into an 
enameled pan with milk, place over a gentle heat, and stir con- 
stantly till it boils, then strain through a hot strainer, add sugar 
and extract. When sugar is dissolved, pour into a wet mold. 
Turn out when firm and serve with milk. Wine may be added 
if wished. 

Irish moss is a seaweed. Its nutritive value is considerable ; 
and, from the amount of mucilage it contains, it is used as a 
remedy in diseases of the chest. It also contains iodine and 
sulphur. 

Noorisliing Pudding 

Thin slices stale brown bread Boiled custard or milk 
Stewed fruit, apples, prunes, etc. 

Line buttered bowl evenly with bread. Cut a roimd of bread 
size of top of bowl. Cut up crusts and some small pieces of 
bread very smaU. Stand bowl on a plate, then fill it with layers 
of hot stewed fruit and bread, allowing sufficient fruit to com- 
pletely saturate bread. When well filled, put round of bread on 
top, press it well down by placing a plate on top, and leave until 
set. 

To serve hot, stand bowl in oven twenty minutes to heat, or 
it may be served cold. Turn out of bowl carefully on to a dish. 
Serve with boiled custard or milk. 

Raw Beef Sandwiches 

Raw beef Butter 

Bread Salt and pepper 



272 ECONOMICAL COOKERY 

Shred some raw beef very fine, then spread it on thin slices of 
buttered bread. Season well. Place another piece of bread on 
top. Cut into dainty squares, or stamp into rounds and serve. 

Another Method. Shred and pound four ounces of lean, juicy 
beef. Add any seasonings that may be allowed and rub through 
a sieve. Spread between thin slices of lightly buttered bread 
and cut into neat strips. These sandwiches are generally 
ordered for special cases. 

Rice Water 

2 tablespoons rice 3 cups (1) pts.) cold water 

Salt 

Wash rice in several waters. Put it into a saucepan, add 
water, soak thirty minutes, then heat gradually to boiling point, 
and cook until rice is soft. Strain, reheat rice water, season to 
taste with salt, and if too thick dilute with a little boiling water. 
Milk may also be added if desired. 

Sago in Gxavy 

1 cup a pt.) gravy or beef tea } teaspoon salt 
1 tablespoon sago i teaspoon pepper 

Bring gravy to boiling point, sprinkle in sago and stir untO it 
boils again, then allow to simmer until it becomes thick and 
transparent; add seasonings. 

It may be served at once as a very thick soup or put into a wet 
mold and allowed to set into a jelly. 

Groimd rice may be used in place of sago. It is best eaten hot. 

Stewed Fish 

1 filleted flounder, or haddock } cup (1 gill) milk 

2 tablespoons bread cnunbs 1 tablespoon butter 
} cup (1 gill) water 1 teaspoon salt 

i teaspoon pepper 

Cut fish into small pieces, then place it in a saucepan, add 
water, milk, and seasonings; put lid on pan and cook fifteen 
minutes. lift out fish into a greased fireproof dish and keep 



INVALID COOKiaBT 273 

it hot. Add bread crumbe and butter to water and milk and 
stir over fire until bread crumbs swell and thicken sauce, pour 
sauce over fish, sprinkle over with a few more bread crumbs, dot 
with butter, and brown in oven. Serve hot. Garnish with 
lemon points. 

Steamed Fish 

1 flounder or sole 1 teaspoon lemon juice 

Parsley or cut lemon 

Take the fillets of flounder or sole, wash and wipe them very 
dry, lay them between two buttered dishes, sprinkle over lemon 
juice, place dishes over a pan of boiling water, and steam twenty 
nunutes, until fillets look quite white. Dish and garnish with 
parsley or lemon. White sauce may be served with this, if liked. 
Any kind of fish steak may be cooked in this manner. 

The lemon juice helps to whiten the fillets. 

Strawbeny Jam Jelly 

1 cup (i pt.) milk i tablespoon powdered gelatine 

2 tablespoons strawberry jam 

Warm milk but do not let it boil, and dissolve gelatine in it. 
Mix strawberry jam with a few drops of boiling water and rub 
it through a sieve into the milk. Pour all into a wet mold and 
allow it to become firm. 

Spaghetti and Fruit Pudding 

} pound spaghetti 1} cups (i pt.) boOed custard 

li cups (i pt.) stewed fruit 2 tablespoons finely chopped nut 

meats or coconut 

Break spaghetti into pieces an inch long and boil until tender 
in plenty of boiling salted water. Put stewed fruit into a serving 
dish. When spaghetti is tender, drain well and put it on fruit, 
pour custard over top, and sprinkle nuts or coconut on top. 
Serve hot or cold. 

Steamed Custard 
1 egg 4 tablespoons beef tea or stock 



274 ECONOMICAL COOKERT 

Beat egg, add beef tea, or stock, and more seasoning if re- 
quired. Pour into greased cup, cover with greased paper, and 
steam gently fifteen minutes. Serve hot or cold. 

This custard may be baked instead of steamed. 



Vanilla Sponge 

1 egg 1 tablespoon milk 

2 drops vanilla extract Sponge cake 

1 teaspoon sugar Honey or preserves 

1 tablespoon (i oz.) butter 

Beat egg slightly with vanilla, sugar, and milk. Melt butter 
in small saucepan, poiu* in egg mixture, and stir until it begins to 
thicken, moving spoon so that egg does not stick in the least to 
bottom of pan. Spread slice of sponge cake with honey or jam, 
put egg mixture on top, and serve hot. 



CHAPTER XXIV 

CANDIES 

" With such imitation 
Of form and color 't will deceive the eye 
Until the taste be ravish'd." 

With the materials found in the cupboard or pantry of the 
average family, delicious and easily made candies may be made, 
which, when used as dessert, are by no means a waste or an 
extravagance. The wise housemother knows that homemade 
sweets have a few advantages over the store kinds. They are 
more wholesome and much cheaper. It takes less to satisfy the 
appetite, as there are no trashy materials in their composition. 
The making of them gives the children a charming vacation task. 

Always select a clear, cold day on which to make candy, as 
many varieties do not tmn out as well when made on a damp 
day. This is especially true when making crystallized nuts, 
leaves, and fruits. It is well to have a confectioner's ther- 
mometer for candy making, so that the sirup may be removed 
from the fire at exactly the right degree. 

Successful candy making depends upon boiling the sirup to 
the proper degree, a bright day, pure cane sugar, and working 
when properly cooled. 

The following confectioner's terms and their accompanying 
degrees of heat will be found very useful for the inexperienced 
candy maker : 

" Thread ", 216^ to 218** F. 

" Soft BaU ", 24(f F. 

" Hard BaU ", 25(f to 252** F. 

" Crack ", 290** to 30(f F. 

Candies containing milk or molasses will not boil over if the 
top edge of the pan or kettle is greased with butter or butter 

275 



276 BCONoiacAL cookbbt 

substitute. Always pour the sirup quickly from the pan, never 
allow it to drip, and do not scrape the pan into the batch of candy. 

Many delicious candies have as their basis a cooked fondant. 
With this an almost endless variety of sweets is possible. 
Candied fruits, raisins, dates, figs, prunes, and chopped nut meats 
are all excellent when mixed with fondant. Different flavorings 
and colorings may be added to suit the individual taste. 

Plenty of popcorn should be used in the making of candies, for 
it is both wholesome and nourishing. The Government analysis 
shows that it is 10.7 per cent, protein, 5 per cent, fat, 1.3 per 
cent, mineral matter, and about 78 per cent, carbohydrates, and 
that its energy value per pound is 1875 calories, which last is 
proportionately higher than that supplied by any other grain 
except parched hominy. 

Butterscotch Candy 

3 cups (18 oa.) brown sugar 6 tablespoons (3 oss.) butter 

1 cup (} pt.) water 1 teaspoon lemon extract 

Put sugar, water, and butter into a saucepan and cook without 
stirring imtil it snaps when tried in cold water, or reaches SOCT by 
candy thermometer ; add extract and pour into greased tins and 
mark into squares. A nice way to use this is to dip marsh- 
mallows in it, or dip nut meats in it. 

Another Method, Boil three cups sugar, one half cup water, 
one half cup vinegar, two tablespoons butter without stirring 
until it will snap when tried in cold water ; add one fourth tea- 
spoon soda, one teaspoon lemon extract, and pour into greased 
tins. Mark off into squares when partly cold. 

Buttermilk Candy 

1 cup (6 ozs.) brown sugar 2 tablespoons (1 oz.) butter 

1 cup (i lb.) sugar 1 teaspoon vanilla extract 

1 cup (i pt.) buttermilk } teaspoon lemon extract 

 

Put into a saucepan sugars, buttermilk, and butter, stir untfl 
mixture reaches 240° F., or forms a soft ball when tried in cold 
water. Remove from fire, add extracts, and beat until creamy* 
Pour into greased tins and mark into squares when half cold. 



CANDIES 277 

Chocolate Chips 

1 cup (6 0Z8.) brown sugar 1 pinch baking soda 

1 cup (i pt.) molaaaeB 1 teajspoon vanilla extract 

2 teaspooDfl butter Melted sweet chocolate 

Put into a saucepan sugar, molasses, butter, and soda and stir 
until sugar is thoroughly dissolved ; then boil until sirup forms a 
hard ball when tested in cold water, or reaches 254° F. on candy 
thermometer. Remove from fire, add vanilla, and allow to 
cool, then pull to a light brown color. Cut into small squares, 
and, while they are warm, roll with buttered rolling pin into very 
thin strips. When firm dip each strip of tafify into melted 
chocolate. Place on waxed paper to cool and harden. 

Another Method, Put into saucepan one cup molasses, one 
half cup honey, one fourth pound chocolate cut fine, one half cup 
evaporated milk, and two tablespoonfuls butter. Boil, stirring 
all the time, until it forms a hard ball when tested in cold water ; 
add one teaspoon vanilla extract. Pour into greased shallow 
pans, and as it cools, cut into small pieces. 

Chocolate Covering 
; 1 lb. chocolate 

Put chocolate in a bowl in a pan containing warm water over 
gentle heat, stir all the time until chocolate is quite smooth, then 
stand bowl on a table and stir well ; when cooled sufficiently and 
chocolate shows signs of becoming thick, stand bowl in larger 
bowl containing warm water. Dip in centers, take them out 
with fork or dipping fork, and place on a clean sheet of tin, or on 
a marble slab covered with waxed paper, and decorate top with a 
twisted strand of chocolate. They should be dry, bright, and 
glossy. Chocolate covering should be done in a cold, dry room. 
If chocolate sets in bowl, melt again over slow heat, stirring well ; 
but on no account should chocolate become hot, or the chocolates 
will be streaky. If any water gets into the chocolate it will be- 
come thick, and cannot be used for coating purposes; then 
make the mixture into centers, either leaving plain, or adding 
a little extract, chopped nuts, or fruits. 

Balls or squares, or rounds of fondant of various colors and 
flavors, may be dipped into above melted chocolate. 



278 ECONOMICAL COOKERT 

To Make Chocolate Nut Drops 

Chop one half cup nut meats, mix into a little melted chocolate, 
and drop on to tin sheet in small heaps. When firm they can 
easily be removed from tin. 

Chocolate Peppermints, Ginger, or Dates 

Oil peppermint Dates 

Preserved ginger Fondant 

Melt fondant, add a few drops oil of peppermint ; when cold 
dip in melted chocolate. Cut preserved ginger into squares or 
cubes, then dip in melted chocolate. Stone dates, fill with 
flavored fondant, and coat with chocolate. Preserved cherries 
may also be filled with fondant, then dipped in chocolate. 

Dried Apricot Squares 

1{ cups (4 028.) dried apricots Confectioner's sugar 
2 teaspoons lemon juice i teaspoon cornstarch 

Granulated sugar 

Soak apricots overnight in cold water, then drain. Cover 
apricots with fresh water, simmer until soft, and rub through a 
sieve. To each one and one half tablespoons pulp, add one 
tablespoon confectioner's sugar, and put both into a saucepan ; 
add lemon juice mixed with cornstarch, and stir over fire until 
paste is smooth and stiff. When cool, roll on a sugared board, 
and cut into rounds or squares, covering each side well with 
sugar. By coloring one half paste with a few drops red or green 
or orange color, alternate layers of different colors may be formed. 
Wrap in waxed paper, and keep in air-tight tins or jars. Dried 
peaches or apples may be used in the same way. 

Bverton Candy 

i cup (6 on.) butter } cup (1 gill) sirup 

2} cups (1 lb.) brown sugar 1 teaspoon lemon extract 

2 tablespoons water 

Melt butter in a saucepan, add sugar, sirup, and water, allow 
sugar to dissolve thoroughly, then boil to 300^ F., or until it wiQ 
snap when tried in cold water ; add extract and pour into deep 



 



CANDIES 279 

greased plate. Mark into bars before quite cold, and, when it 
hardens, wrap each bar in waxed paper, and keep in air-tight tins. 

Fondant 

4 cups (2 lbs.) sugar 4 teaspoons glucose, or 

2 cups (1 pt.) water 1 pinch cream of tartar 

Put sugar and water in a saucepan and dissolve over gentle 
heat, stirring until thoroughly melted; then add glucose or 
cream of tartar, place thermometer in pan, and boil to 240^ F., 
or until mixture makes a soft ball when tried in cold water. 
During boiling, brush round sides of pan with clean pastry brush 
dipped in water to prevent crystallization. Remove pan, let it 
stand one minute, then very gently pour sirup into a flat wet 
platter. Sprinkle a little water on top and leave until slightly 
cooled. Then with scraper or knife bring sirup to center of 
platter and work with wooden spoon or spatula till it becomes 
white and opaque. Knead until smooth and free from lumps 
and rub in the hands until creamy. Put it in a jar and keep well 
covered with waxed paper. 

To Mold Fondant. Put two cups fondant into small pan, put 
pan over hot water, heat gently, stirring all the time, add color 
and flavoring to taste, and when liquid pour iato dry rubber mats, 
or in starch impressions. When set and quite cold, turn them 
out. 

If the melted fondant is too thick to pour easily, add a few 
drops of simple sirup or warm water. 

Maple fondant and caramel fondant are made in the same way 
as plain fondant. The only difference is the use of maple 
sugar instead of granulated sugar in maple fondant, and that you 
caramelize one cup of the sugar before using when making 
caramel fondant. 

Fruit and Nut Squares 

1 cup (i lb.) dates, stoned and i cup (2 ozs.) preserved ginger, 

chopped chopped 

1 cup (i lb.) figs, chopped 2 cups (i lb.) nut meats, chopped 

1 cup (i lb.) seeded raisins 1 teaspoon vanilla extract 

} cup (2 ozs.) coconut, chopped 



280 ECONOMICAL COOKERY 

Mix dates, figp, raisins, and ginger, put them through food 
chopper, and then pack into a small buttered mold. Mix nut 
meats, vanilla, and coconut and put them through food chopper, 
and then pack into a buttered mold. Turn out, cut thin slices 
of the fruit paste and thin slices of the nut paste, put one slice 
of fruit paste between two slices of the nut i>aste, and cut into 
neat squares. Wrap in waxed paper and keep in air-tight tins. 

Ginger Cream Candy 

1 cup (4 oas.) preserved ginger 1 tablespoon ginger sirup 
1 egg white 3} cupe (1 lb.) confectioner's 

sugar 

Cut ginger into small neat pieces. Beat up white of egg with 
ginger sirup. Into this stir sifted confectioner's sugar, adding 
it gradually imtil mixture is sufficiently pliable to be molded into 
balls with fingers. Press a small piece of ginger on each side 
and then set away to harden. 

Honey Fruit Candy 

1 cup (i pt.) honey 2 cups (} lb.) chopped raisins 

2 cups (1 lb.) sugar 20 (} lb.) shredded marshmallows 
i cup (1 gill) fruit juice 2 egg whites, beaten 

Boil honey, sugar, and fruit juice without stirring until it 
forms a soft ball when tried ia cold water, or reaches 240^ F. on 
candy thermometer. Remove from fire and pour on the stiffly 
beaten egg whites; beat until thick, add raisins and marsh- 
mallows, and pour into buttered tins. Cut iuto squares before 
it hardens. 

Honey Nut Fudge 

1 cup (i lb.) sugar 1 cup (} pt.) honey 

1 cup (6 02S.) brown sugar 2 tablespoons (1 oz.) butter 

1 cup (i pt.) milk 1 tablespoon vinegar 

1 cup (4 ozs.) chopped nut meats 

*Into saucepan put sugars, add milk and boil until sirup forms 
a soft ball when tried in cold water, or reaches 240^ F. by candy 



CANDIES 281 

thermometer. Add honey, and boil again to soft ball stage, 
when drop in butter and add vinegar. Boil up again, add nuts, 
and pour into a greased tin. Cut into squares when firm. 

Lemon Taffy 

2 cups (1 lb.) sugar i cup (4 ozs.) golden sirup 

} cup (} lb.) butter 1 tablespoon lemon juice 

1 tablespoon cold water 

Put into a saucepan sugar, butter, lemon juice, and water, and 
when melted boil quickly until a little dropped into cold water 
snaps briskly, or registers 300^ F. by thermometer. Pour into 
buttered tins, and before it is quite cold, mark into squares. 

Marshmallows 

2 cups (1 lb.) sugar 8 tablespoons lukewarm water 

1 cup (i pt.) water, cold, or fruit 1 teaspoon lemon extract 

juice 1 teaspoon vanilla extract 

1 envelope (1 oz.) powdered Cornstarch 

gelatine Powdered sugar 

Dissolve sugar in cold water or fruit juice, then boil until it 
forms hard ball when tried in cold water, or reaches 258^ F. on 
candy thermometer. Dissolve gelatine in lukewarm water; 
when sirup is ready, pour it over gelatine, then add extracts and 
beat twenty minutes. Powder deep pan with mixture of three 
teaspoons powdered sugar and one of cornstarch, pour in candy 
and allow to stand one day and one night, then cut into rounds 
or squares and roll in more sugar and cornstarch. Pack between 
layers of waxed paper. 

Molasses Caramels 

1 cup (} pt.) molasses } teaspoon baking soda 

1 cup (6 ozs.) brown sugar i cup (2 02s.) chopped nut meats 

i cup (} lb.) butter 1 teaspoon vanilla extract 

Boil molasses, sugar, butter, and soda, stirring all the time until 
it forms a hard ball when tested in cold water, or reaches 252^ F. 
on candy thermometer ; add nut meats and vanilla. Pour into 



282 ECONOMICAL COOKEBT 

greased tin, mark into squares before it is cold, and wrap in 
waxed paper. 

Another MeUiod. Melt four tablespoons butter in saucepan, 
add one cup milk, one cup brown sugar, and one cup molasses or 
sirup ; boil four minutes, add four squares unsweetened melted 
chocolate and one tablespoon coffee. Ck)ntinue boiling slowly 
without stirring, until hard ball forms in cold water. Pour into 
greased tins and when half cold mark uito squares or oblong 
pieces. When cold, cut into pieces, wrap in waxed paper, and 
keep in air-tight boxes. 

Nut Penuche 

2 tablespoons (1 oz.) butter 1 cup (4 ozs.) chopped nut meats 

2 cups (1 lb.) maple sugar, grated i cup (2 ozs.) chopped dates 

1 cup (i pt.) evaporated milk 1 tea^xx>n vanilla extract 

Melt butter in chafing dish, add sugar and milk, and stir until 
sugar is thoroughly dissolved, then boil without stirring to 240^ F. 
on candy thermometer, or until a soft ball will form in cold water. 
Remove from fire,;leave undisturbed until cool, add nuts, dates, 
and extract, and stir until sugary. Press quickly into buttered 
tin and mark in neat pieces. Figs may be used instead of dates. 

Nut and Raisin Fudge 

4 tablespoons grated unsweet- 2 tablespoons (1 oz.) butter 

ened chocolate i cup (} lb.) seeded raisins 

2 cups (1 lb.) sugar i cup (2 ozs.) chopped nut meats 
1 cup (i pt.) milk 1 teaspoon vanilla extract 

Mix chocolate with sugar in a saucepan, add milk and butter, 
and stir continually until it forms a soft ball when tried in cold 
water, or reaches 240** F. by thermometer. Remove from fire, 
add raisins, nuts, and vanilla, beat until thick, and pour into a 
buttered pan. Cut into neat squares when cool. 

Another Method, Stir two cups light brown sugar and one 
half cup mUk in saucepan, then place pan on fire, add four table- 
spoons butter, piach of salt, and two squares of unsweetened 
chocolate ; stir all the time and when it hardens in cold water, or 
reaches 250^ F. add one teaspoon vanilla extract and remove 



CANDIES 283 

from fire; beat until it begins to thicken, then add one table- 
spoon milk and one half cup chopped nut meats, and beat a few 
seconds longer ; pour into greased pan and when cool mark into 
neat pieces. 

Orange Fondants 

1 pound lump sugar 2 teaspoons g}ucose, or 

2 oranges 1 pinch cream of tiurtar 

1 cup (i pt.) water 1 tablespoon orange juice 

Rub lump sugar on orange rinds till all the zest is rubbed off. 
Put orange, sugar, and water into a pan and dissolve, add glucose 
and orange juice, boil to 24(f F., or until it makes a soft ball 
when tried in cold water, pour on platter, and work with si)atu]a, 
as described in fondant. When kneaded smooth, return to pan 
and melt down with a little sirup, pour into rubber mat, and 
when cold turn out. When quite dry, the creams may be dipped 
into melted chocolate. 

Lemon fondants are prepared in the same way, using lemons 
instead of oranges. 

Peanut Butter Candy ' 

2 tablespoons peanut butter 1 cup (i pt.) milk 

2 cups (1 lb.) sugar or brown 1 cup (} lb.) chopped nut meats 
sugar 1 pinch salt 

1 teaspoon vanilla extract 

Cook peanut butter, sugar, and milk until it forms soft ball 
when tried in cold water, or reaches 240° F. on candy thermom- 
eter, stir in nut meats, salt, and extract, remove from fire and 
beat imtil creamy. Pour into greased pan and when cool mark 
into squares. 

Another Method. Cook one and one half cups brown sugar, 
four tablespoons butter, two tablespoons peanut butter, pinch of 
salt, one cup milk, one tablespoon grated chocolate or cocoa 
until it forms soft ball in cold water. Pour into greased tin and 
when cool mark into squares. 

Peanut Taffy 

4 cups (1 qt.) molasses .} teaspoon baking soda 

2 tablespoons (1 oz.) butter 1 cup (} lb.) peanuts, roasted 



284 ECONOMICAL COOKEBT 

Pour molasses into a saucepan, add butter, and cook mixture 
until it becomes brittle when dropped into cold water, or reaches 
300^ F. by candy thermometer. Then add soda, stir in chopped 
peanuts, and pour into greased pans. Mark in squares. 

Peppermint Milk Drops 

2 cups (1 lb.) sugar 2 tablespoons (1 oz.) butter 

i cup (1 gill) milk Few drops peppermint extract 

Dissolve sugar in milk in a saucepan and bring to the boil ; 
sinmier until it forms a hard ball when tested in cold water, or 
reaches 250*^ F. on candy thermometer. Remove from fire, add 
butter and peppermint, and stir until mixture grains. Pour 
mixture on to a greased tin and mark into small squares. When 
cold cut up and pack in boxes. 

Popcorn Candy 

About 10 cups popcorn 1 cup (} pt.) maple or com sirup 

2 tablespoons (1 oz.) butter } cup (\ lb.) sugar 

1 teaspoon lemon extract 

Melt butter in a saucepan, add sirup and sugar, and when 
dissolved allow to boil until it registers 300^ F. on candy ther- 
mometer, or when tried in cold water it is quite brittle, then add 
extract. Pour mixture over popcorn, shape into balls, then roll 
these in more popcorn until no more will adhere to baUs. Keep 
in air-tight boxes. 

Another Method, Boil together one cup honey, one cup brown 
sugar, one tablespoon butter, and one cup water until it forms a 
soft ball when tried in cold water. Put five quarts popcorn into 
a bowl, add one teaspoon vanilla extract, and pour over hot 
sirup. Rub hands with oil, and after stirring candy well, make 
it into small balls. Wrap in waxed paper. To make chocolate 
popcorn balls add one square of unsweetened chocolate to the 
hot sirup. One cup chopped nut meats may be added if liked. 

Raisin Candy 

2 cups (1 lb.) sugar } cup (1 gill) water 

6 tablespoons sirup, golden or 1 egg white, beaten 

com sirup 1 cup (} lb.) raisins 

1 teaspoon vanilla extract 



CANDIES 285 

Put sugar and water in a saucepan and when it reaches boiling 
point add sirup. Allow to boil again and pour four tablespoons 
of it over egg white. Allow remaining sirup to boil until it forms 
soft ball when tried in cold water, or reaches 240° by candy 
thermometer, then pour over egg mixture and beat until thick, 
add raisins and extract. Turn into greased pan and when cool 
mark into neat pieces. 

Stuffed Dates 

4 pounds dates i lemon 

1 cup (fib.) figs 3 tablespoons sugar or honey 

i cup (2 ozs.) cherries 3 tablespoons apple or quince 

) cup (2 ozs.) nut meats jelly 

i cup (2 ozs.) seeded raisins i teaspoon powdered nutmeg 

Put figs, cherries, nut meats, and raisins through food chopper, 
add grated lemon rind, strained juice of lemon, sugar, or honey, 
apple or quince jelly and nutmeg, and beat well together. Re- 
move stones from dates and fill each with a little of the mixture. 
Press sides together and roll in sugar. Stuffed dates keep well. 

Another Method, Stone a quantity of dates and fill with 
following mixture. Mold some cooked rice or barley with an 
equal amount of flavored fondant, dip in white of egg, and use. 
Fill into dates and roll in sugar and place on waxed paper to 
harden. 

Prunes may be used instead of dates. 

Sqaashy or Pompkiii, Candy 

1 cup (} pt.) cooked and sifted 2 tablespoons (1 oz.) butter 

squash or pumpkin 1 orange 

1 cup (i pt.) com sirup 1 lemon 

2 cups (1 lb.) sugar } teaspoon powdered nutmeg 

1 cup (} lb.) chopped nut meats 

Put squash, sirup, sugar, butter, grated rinds, and strained 
juices of orange and lemon into a saucepan ; stir over a gentle 
heat imtil it forms a hard ball when tested in cold water, or until 
it reaches 254° F. ; then add nutmeg and nut meats and pour 
into greased tins. When cool, mark off into squares. 



286 ECONOMICAL COOKERY 

Trench Fudge 

2 cups (1 lb.) sugar 1 cup (4 ozs.) chopped nuts or 

1 cup ii pt.) evaporated milk almonds 

6 tablespoons water 4 tablespoons cocoa 

2 tablespoons (1 oz.) butter 1 teaspoon vanilla extract 

1 teaspoon lemon extract 

Put sugar, three fourths cup of the evaporated milk, and 
water into a saucepan, and stir until boiling; add butter and 
boil without stirring until it forms a soft ball when tried in 
cold water, or 240** F. by thermometer. Remove from fire, 
and pour, one half into a bowl, add nuts and lemon extract and 
beat until creamy, then pour into a buttered pan. To other half 
add cocoa and remainder of evaporated milk and allow to heat ; 
add vanilla and beat until creamy, then pour over nut mixture. 
Cut into squares when cold. 

Turkish Delight 

1 envelope () oz.) powdered i cup (1 gill) fruit Juice, bailing 
gelatine 1 orange 

i cup (1 gill) hot water 1 lemon 

2 cups (1 lb.) sugar 1 cup (i lb.) chopped nut meats 

Few drops red color 

Dissolve gelatine in hot water. Boil sugar and fruit juice 
ten minutes, add dissolved gelatine and cook ten minutes, add 
grated rinds and strained juice of orange and lemon, stir well, 
and add nut meats and color. Pour iato a wet pan and allow 
to stand overnight in refrigerator. Cut in squares or cubes, 
roll in powdered sugar, and keep in air-tight boxes. If liked, 
a few chopped preserved cherries may be added to mixture. 



For rccKLCNo Tm 



Apple and Orah<:e Marjui-aue. Pagt X8S. 



CHAPTER XXV 

PRESERVING AND PICKLING 

" When the time comes the latest fruits also ripen." 

For preserving use the best sugar and avoid that of a bluish 
cast. The utensils used should be kettles, colanders, and ladles 
of porcelain-lined or granite ware, spoons of wood or silver, 
earthenware bowls, and glass tumblers. The jelly bag may be 
made of felt, thin flannel, coarse linen, or fine cheesecloth. It 
is better shaped like a cone, with strong tapes run around the 
neck for suspending it to drip. Do not squeeze the dripping 
fruit. The boiling sirup may be poured directly into glasses 
without danger of their cracking if they are rolled in hot water 
and then left standing on a damp cloth. A silver spoon left in 
the glass will also prevent cracking, as the silver is a good con- 
ductor of heat. The jelly should be allowed to remain un- 
disturbed, as moving about is apt to disturb the process of 
solidifying. 

In making jelly it must be borne in mind that the less stirring 
the better. If stirred too much, the jelly will not be clear, while 
the tendency of sugar to granulate is also increased by stirring. 

A good test for the consistency of jelly when boiling is when 
two drops form on the edge of a spoon held sidewise. 

In the case of most fruits, canning with a little sugar is to be 
preferred to canning with a large quantity of sugar. There are, 
however, some fruits that are only good when preserved with a 
great deal of sugar. Of course, such preparations of fruit are 
desirable only for occasional use. The fruits best adapted for 
preserving are strawberries, sour cherries, sour plums, and 
quinces. Such rich preparations should be put up in small 
glasses or jars. 

The method of canning fndt has superseded that of preserving. 

287 



288 ECONOMICAL COOKERY 

This is due not only to the fact that it is more economical, 
requiring less or no sugar, but because many tastes prefer fruit 
which is not too highly sweetened. Fruits for canning should 
be solid and not overripe. 

Vegetables should be as fresh as possible. Fruits camied 
without the use of sugar will require the addition of sugar when 
served and will probably take more of it in the end, but the 
products will keep just as well when canned in water as in sirup, 
if twenty per cent, is added to the time requirement for sterili- 
zation. Use jars of clear white glass. Wide-mouthed jars are 
better than narrow-mouthed ones, because the fruits may be 
put in place so easily. Good rubbers are also essential. These 
should stretch and come back into position and be bent sharply 
back and forth without cracking or breaking. Label the jars and 
store them in a cool, dry place. 

Drying fruits and vegetables is an important adjunct to 
canning. Practically all vegetables and fruits may be dried. 

Pickles are classed in two general ways — sweet and soiu:. For 
the latter pure cider vinegar is always used, while for the former, 
any good pure vinegar answers admirably. 

Pickles are like all other preserves ; the best materials alone 
should be used, the vegetables chosen should be sound, ripe, but 
not overripe, and freshly gathered on a dry, and if possible warm 
day. 

Metal spoons and copper pans must be carefully avoided ; un- 
glazed stoneware is the safest for anything connected with vine- 
gar, and clean, wooden spoons only should be used. The brine 
in which pickles are to be stored should be strong enough to float 
an egg. Two cups coarse salt to four quarts water is the usual 
proportion. 

Apple and Orange Marmalade 

Apples Water 

Oranges Sugar or maple sugar 

Lemon juice 

Use an equal amount of apples and oranges. To prepare 
apples, wash and cut into eighths without paring. Cover with 
cold water and cook until tender. Drain through a jelly bag, 
pressing out juice. 



PRBSEaVING AND PICKLING 289 

To prepare oranges, wash them well. Remove the peel in 
quarters and cook until soft in boiling water. Strain and remove 
part of white from peel by scraping with a knife or spoon. Cut 
thin yellow rind into strips, using scissors. Sterilize jars in 
boiling water. Break orange pulp into small pieces, removing 
tough membranes if necessary. Combine this pulp with apple 
juice and add an equal amount of sugar, peel, and tablespoon 
of lemon juice. Cook until thick. Divide into jars and cover. 

Apple Batter 

4 quarts (1 gal.) apples, pared 2 cups (1 pt.) boiled cider 

and sliced 1 teaspoon powdered cinnamon 

1 cup (14 028.) molasses i teaspoon powdered nutmeg 

i teaspoon powdered mace 

Use cooking apples, put them into preserving kettle with 
molasses, cider, and spices, and cook slowly until reduced to 
about one fifth the original quantity of apples. Store in closely 
covered crock and set in a cool, dark place. 

Banana and Pear Jam 

6 pounds bananas 2 oranges 

2 lemons 2 pounds ripe pears 

5 pounds lump sugar 

Peel bananas, cut them into dice, and weigh them. Into 
preserving pan put strained lemon and orange juices, pears 
peeled and diced, and one pound of the sugar. Bring to boiling 
point, then add gradually bananas and remainder of sugar; 
stir gently; skim carefully and cook one hour. Divide into 
jars and seal. 

Barberry Jelly 

Barberries Water 

Sugar 

Barberries need touching with the frost to give the jelly the 
dark crimson color and " tang " that make it so acceptable. 
Free berries from stems, wash, and allow to every two quarts 
of berries one half cup water. Cook until juice will press out 



290 ECONOMICAL COOKERT 

easfly, take from fire, mash well, strain, and measure juice. To 
each pint juice use one poimd sugar, which, as for all jeUies, 
should be heated in the oven with door open, while juice is 
cooking. Boil juice twenty minutes, add sugar, cook three or 
four minutes longer, and turn into glasses, and cover. 

Barberries combine well with apples, pears, or raisins. They 
are often put up with the latter, using one pound raisins to every 
five pounds of fruit, and one pound sugar to one pound of the 
whole. With apples allow twelve sour apples to each four 
quarts of berries. A cluster of barberries dropped in vinegar 
makes an effective garnish for meat or game. 

Blackberry and Apple Jelly 

5 pounds blackberries 5 poimds apples 

10 cupe (5 lbs.) sugar or honey 

Put required amoimt of blackberries into preserving pan, 
place in upper pan of double boiler, cover, and cook untfl 
berries are perfectly soft. Now strain juice. 

Wash, core, and cut up required amount of acid and juicy 
apples, put them into preserving pan with sufficient water to keep 
from burning. Cover with lid, boil slowly until quite soft, and 
strain through hot jelly bag. Use equal quantities blackberry 
juice, apple juice, and sugar. Pour strained juice into porcelain- 
lined pan and boil twenty minutes. Heat sugar, add it to boiling 
juice, and stir with wooden spoon until sugar is dissolved, then 
allow to boil again five minutes. Pour iato sterilized glasses 
and seal. 

A good recipe for jelly is to mash fruit desired with a potato 
masher, add two cups of water, and boil five minutes. Strain, 
add two more cups water, and two cups maple or white sugar to 
every pint of liquid. Boil three minutes and skim well. 

Black Currant Jam 

Black currants Sugar 

Pick and weigh fruit, and to each pound of fruit allow three 
fourths pound of sugar. Bring the fruit very gently to the boil, 



PBESBBVINQ AND PICKUNG 291 

add the sugar a little at a time, bring once more to the boil, and 
boil fast twelve minutes. 

Pour into sterilized jars, cover while hot Let the jars stand 
without being moved until quite cold. 

Canned Apples, Cold Pack Method 

Apples Salted cold water 

Hot sirap 

Canning by cold pack method is not difficult. Wash jars and 
rubbers and test rubbers for quality. Set empty jars and rubbers 
in pan of water to heat to boiling point and boil ten minutes. 
Fill a wash boiler to cover jars two inches with water and heat 
this water. Pare, core, and slice sound apples, and drop them 
into slightly salted cold water. Put apples into wire basket or 
piece of cheesecloth and dip for one and one half minutes into 
plenty of boiling water. Plunge immediately into cold water and 
then pack into hot jars. Fill up jars with hot sirup or boiling 
water ; put rubbers and tops in position and partially tighten 
tops. Place jars on rack in wash boiler and submerge them two 
inches. Place cover on boiler and let water boU twenty minutes. 
Lift out jars and make tope air-tight. Invert jars to discover 
leaks. If leaks are found, change rubbers and boil agam five 
minutes. 

To Make Sirup. Put three quarts sugar into a saucepan, add 
three quarts water, and boU until sugar is thoroughly (Ussolved. 
Skim off impurities and keep sirup hot. 

Carrot Marmalade 

12 large carrots, grated 3 lemons 

Sugar 1 orange 

Measure carrots and allow one cup to one cup of sugar ; mix 
and let stand overnight. In morning add strained lemon and 
orange juices and cook slowly one hour. 

If liked, one teaspoon each of cinnamon, cloves, and allspice 
may be added. Divide into glasses and cover. 



292 ECONOMICAL COOKEBT 

Dried Peaches or Apples 

Apples or peaches 

Pare and core apples, then slice or cut them in quarters. 
They dry faster when sliced, as more surface is exposed. Steam 
pieces of apples three minutes. Now spread them on a drier 
and dry until leathery and tough, and when pressed between 
fingers no soft places can be detected. This requires, on a hot- 
air drier, on a good drying day, about three hours at 180° F. One 
peck of apples at one time may be dried on three oven racks. 

This recipe wiQ answer for peaches, apricots, and pears. 

A hot-air drier is a conmiercial device, and hot-air drying can 
be reconmiended as the best method for drying fruits and 
vegetables. A slow oven may also be used for drying. 

To Dry Pears, Pare, core, and slice pears into rings. To 
prevent discoloration, dip fruit as it is prepared into cold water 
with one ounce of salt to each gallon of water. Place in a 
colander and set over pan of hot water ; place cover on pan and 
steam ten minutes. Dry fruit between clean towels or in sun, to 
remove surface moisture ; spread on plates or trays and dry in 
sun, or in oven, over stove or before an electric fan until pears 
are tough and leathery. Stir from time to time, so they will 
dry evenly. Store in cloth or paper bags or in tight pasteboard 
boxes. All dried products should be examined occasionally, 
and upon the first appearance of insects they should be spread 
in thin layers in the sun until insects disappear, then heated to a 
temperature of 160° F. and stored again. 



Elderbeny and Apple Jelly 

8 cups (4 pts.) elderberries 4 pounds cooking apples 

4 cups (2 pts.) water Lump sugar 

Stalk elderberries, place them in preserving pan with water, 
and let simmer slowly one hour. Quarter and core but do not 
pare apples, mix with elderberries, and cook more quickly until 
apples begin to break. Strain through hot jelly bag, measure 
resulting juice rnto clean preserving pan, and, after adding to 



PRSSERVING AND PICKLINO 293 

each pint from one pound to one and one fourth pounds of heated 
lump sugar, according to d^ree of sweetness liked, boil gently 
until jelly stiffens when tested. 

Golden Marmalade 

8 cups (2 qts.) rhubarb 3 oranges 

1 pineapple Sugar 

Wash and dry rhubarb, cut in small pieces, and cook fifteen 
minutes. Put pineapple and oranges through food chopper, 
add them, and cook fifteen minutes. Measure mixture and 
add same amount of sugar. Boil twenty minutes and seal in 



Orange and Pineapple Mannalade 

4 oranges 1 lemon 

1 pineapple 11 cups (5i pts.) water 

8 cups (4 lbs.) sugar 

Slice oranges and lemon very thin and chop pineapple not too 
fine. Pour over water, cover, and stand aside twenty-four 
hours; then boil slowly one hour, after which add sugar and 
stand aside again twenty-four hours. Then boil from one hour 
and twenty minutes to one and one half hoiuis. Pom* into glasses 
and seal. 

Orange Mannalade 

8 oranges 24 cups (6 qts.) water 

4 lemons 22 cups (11 lbs.) sugar, heated 

Wash and dry oranges and lemons, slice very thin, picking 
out seeds. Add water and let stand thirty-six hours. Turn 
into a preserving pan and cook steadily one hour. Now add 
sugar and boil slowly imtil it jellies when tested on a plate. 
Pour into glasses and cover. This marmalade is excellent. 

Preserved Strawberries 

4 cups (2 lbs.) sugar, scant 1 cup (i pt.) water 

2i pounds strawberries 

Bring sugar and water to boiling point and skim. Add straw- 
berries, which have been washed, capped, and stemmed. Boil 



294 ECONOMICAL COOKEBY 

fruit until sirup is about as thick as molasses or reaches 22Xf F. 
on candy thermometer. Remove scum from preserves. FiD 
sterilized jars with hot berries ; pour in enough hot sirup to fill 
jar, leaving as little air space as possible. Put sterilized ring? 
and caps on at once, but do not fasten tightly. Stand seal^l 
jars in tepid water up to their necks, and bring this water to a 
boil. Let pint jars stay in the boiling water fifteen minutes, 
and quart jars twenty-five minutes, then close caps tightly at 
once. 

Rhubarb Marmalade 

Rhubarb, chopped Lemon juice 

Oranges Sugar 

Orange peel, grated Almonds, blanched and chopped 

To one cup of rhubarb add pulp and juice of one orange, one 
teaspoon grated orange rind, one tablespoon lemon juice, and 
one and one half cups sugar. Let mixture stand until sugar is 
dissolved. Boil quickly until transparent, then add one cup 
almonds. Boil up once more, pour into glasses, and seal. 

Sugarless Jam 

1 package stoned dates 2 cups (} lb.) preserved ginger 

6 cups (14 ozB.) dried apricots 5 cups (2} pts.) water 

Wash apricots thoroughly and soak overnight in the water; 
add dates and ginger cut in pieces and cook slowly until dates 
are soft. Seal in jars. 

Three-fruit Marmalade 

1 large orange 1 heavy, Juicy grapefruit 

1 large lemon Sugar 

Water 

This marmalade is delicious, and this amount will make ten 
glasses. Wash fruit and run it through a food chopper, using 
the coarser blade, and saving all juice. Measure juice and 
fruit and add three times its quantity of water. Let it stand 
for thirty hours, then cook thirty minutes. Ck)ol and measure, 
then add an equal amount of sugar. Let mixture stand ag^ 



PRESERVING AND PICKLING 295 

ID a cool place twenty-four hours, then simmer until thick. 
Divide into glasses and seal with melted paraffin. 

Tomato Mannalade 

Ripe tomatoes Lemon juice 

Sugar 

Cut up desired quantity of tomatoes and add small amount of 
water. Cook until quite soft, then strain through fine sieve, 
allowing no skin or seeds to pass through. Boil this pulp fifteen 
minutes and add one cup of sugar for each cup of pulp. Boil 
this mixture until as thick as desired. The addition of the 
juice of one lemon to every ten cups of the marmalade will give 
a decidedly rich flavor. Add strained lemon juice while boiling. 
Divide marmalade into jelly tumblers and cover. 

Canned Fish 
Cod, salmon, haddock, or halibut Brine 

Be sure that fish is very fresh, then clean and remove bones. 
Make strong salt and water brine and place cleaned fish in this 
thirty minutes. Drain from brine, cut into convenient sized 
pieces, and pack with skin towards outside in clean jars. Put 
rubbers and tops in position lightly, and sterilize in a water- 
seal canner, or in a hot-water canner three hours. When canning 
by steam pressure, sterilize two and one half hours under five 
pounds, or one and one half hours under fifteen pounds of 
pressure. 

Another Method, Parboil the fish, then cool and pack in clean 
glass jars, adjust rubbers and tops, partially seal, and sterilize 
in a hot-water bath four hours. Entirely seal and store in 
cool place. ' 

Canned Green or Red Peppers 
Green or red peppers Water 

Thoroughly wash large sweet peppers, green or red ; cut off 
the tops, remove all seeds, pack in glass jars, then fill with cold 
water and screw the tops on loosely, without the rubbers. Then 
put a rack in bottom of boiler and set jars on board. Fill boiler 



296 ECONOMICAL COOEEBT 

halfway to top of jars, place over fire, and cook three fourths of 
an hour after water begins to bo3. Then remove tops and if 
peppers have settled, take contents of one or more jars and fill 
others, add boiling water until jars overflow, put on rubbers, 
screw tops on tight, and boil five minutes ; remove from fire and 
allow to cool in boiler. 

Another Method. Remove seeds from green or red peppers 
and soak in brine two hours and fifteen minutes ; then boU in 
unsalted water until tender. Pack tightly in small sterilized 
jars and cover with boiling sirup made of one cup brown sugar 
and one half cup vinegar. Seal. 

Chili Sauce 

20 tomatoes 3 cups (1} pts.) vinegar 

12 onions } cup (2 ozs.) salt 

6 red peppers 3 teaspoons powdered ginger 

6 green peppers 3 teaspoons powdered cloves 

1 cup (6 ozs.) brown sugar 1 teaspoon powdered cinnamon 

Peel tomatoes and onions and remove seeds and cores from 
peppers. Chop all very fine or put through food chopper, add 
sugar, vinegar, salt, and spices, and cook in a preserving kettle 
imtil sauce becomes thick. Pour into sterilized jars and seal 
at once. 

Another Method, Mix seven cups vinegar, two chopped 
red peppers, two chopped green peppers, one teaspoon allspice, 
one half teaspoon each mace, ginger, cloves, and cinnamon, one 
teaspoon black pepper, two oimces mustard seeds, one teaspoon 
celery seeds, one chopped clove garlic, two cups chopped celery, 
one half cup salt, one and one half cups chopped onions, one 
half teaspoon turmeric powder, and one peck chopped ripe 
tomatoes. When well blended divide into jars and seal ; allow 
jars to stand upside down overnight. Do not cook. 

Cucumber Relish 

12 large cucumbers 1 cup (} lb.) sugar or honey 

4 large green peppers 1 tablespoon mustard seeds 

4 large onions 1 teaspoon celery seeds 

} cup (4 ozs.) salt } teaspoon powdered mace 

1 oup (} pt.) horse-radish Cold vinegar 



PRESERVING AND PICKLING 297 

Peel and seed cucumbers ; put them through a food chopper 
with peppers and onions, add salt, mix well, and let stand over- 
night. Drain and add horse-radish, which has been put through 
food chopper, and other ingredients. Mix all thoroughly with 
cold vinegar, pack tightly in sterilized jars, and seal at once. 

Mixed Pickle 

2 cups (1 pt.) cooked com 2 cups (1 pt.) cooked beans 

4 cooked cauliflower heads 6 cucumbers, chopped 

4 green peppers, chopped 3 red peppers, chopped 
4 tablespoons nasturtium seeds, } cup (1} ozs.) brown sugar 

chopped 3 teaspoons salt 

6 tablespoons mustard 3 tablespoons mixed spices 

1 teaspoon celery salt 8 cups (4 pts.) vinegar 

Mix com, beans, cauliflower flowerets, peeled cucumbers, 
peppers, and nasturtium seeds; drain thoroughly and pack in 
wide-mouthed sterilized jars. Put sugar, salt, and seasoning 
into a saucepan, add vinegar, and boil fifteen minutes. Pour 
into the jars and seal at once. Care should be taken to have the 
jars well filled, so that no air space remains at the top. Other- 
wise pickle will not keep. 

Pepper Hash 

12 sweet green peppers 3 cups (H pts.) vinegar 

12 red peppers 1} cups (10 ozs.) sugar, brown or 

10 large onions white 

Boiling water 3 tablespoons salt 

Wash peppers and remove seeds. Chop peppers and onions 
together, cover with boiling water five minutes; drain and 
cover with more boiling water. After ten minutes drain again. 
Now add vinegar, sugar, and salt, and cook fifteen minutes. 
Divide into bottles and seal. 

Another Method. Put through food chopper two cabbages, ten 
onions, twenty sweet peppers, seeds included, and let stand in 
weak salt water overnight. Drain and cover with vinegar, add 
eight tablespoons sugar, two tablespoons celery seeds, four 
tablespoons mustard seeds, and two hot peppers. Stir well and 
allow to stand two days. Pack into jars. Keeps without seal* 
ing, and no cooking is required. 



2§8 ECONOMICAL COOKEBT 

Pickled Green Tomatoes 

9 pounds green tomatooB 8 cups (4 pts.) brown sugsr 

4 cups (1 qt.) diluted vinegar 2 sticks cinnamon 

Cloves 

Peel tomatoes and boil in salted water until tender. Drain 
and stick a whole clove in each tomato. Pour vinegar into a 
saucepan, add sugar and cinnamon, and bring to boiling point. 
Drop tomatoes iuto this sirup and boil a few minutes, or untfl 
they look clear. Put tomatoes into jars, pour sirup over, and 
seal. 

Pickled Brains 

Calf's brains Vinegar 

1 teaspoon salt i teaspoon black pepper 

Brains must be kept on ice until ready to prepare for cooking, 
and the sooner cooked after coming from market, the better. 
Wash in tepid water, then drop into a saucepan of boiling water 
in which salt has been dissolved. Boil quickly ten minutes, 
lift out brains with a skimmer, drain free of water, and place 
in a bowl. Cover with cold vinegar, sprinkle with pepper, and 
set aside two hours, when they are ready to serve. A little more 
salt may be added if liked. 

Pickled Pumpkin 

6 cups (3 pts.) pumpkin 2 teaspoons powdered cinnamoii 

5 cups (2i lbs.) sugar or honey 1 teaspoon powdered mace 
1 cup (i pt.) vinegar 1 teaspoon powdered cloves 

Peel pumpkin and cut iato pieces one inch long and one half 
inch thick. Cover with boUing water and boil until slightly 
tender. Pour off water, add sugar and vinegar, and cook fifteen 
minutes, add spices and boil up until thorou^y mixed. Seal 
in jars while hot. 

Pickled Tongttes 

4 pounds piga' or calves' tongues 1 tablespoon whole black peppers 

4 pigs' feet 2 tablespoons salt 

3 cups (1} pts.) vinegar 4 cloves 

1 large onion 1 bay leaf 



PBESBRVIN6 AND PICKLING 299 

Wash tongues and feet in warm water and put them into a 
large pot; add vin^ar and enough cold water to cover well; 
bring to boiling point quickly and remove all scum as soon as it 
rises. When liquor is clear, add onion, peppers, salt, cloves, and 
bay leaf, and simmer until tongues are tender. Lift out meat, 
skin, and trim, but leave tongues whole and place in a deep 
jar or earthenware bowl. Boil down liquor to three fourths 
pint and strain it over tongues. Chill and use only as much as 
will be required for one meal. Serve cut in slices, garnished with 
some of the jelly and parsley. 

Rhubarb Relish 

4 cups (1 qt.) rhubarb, sliced 1 teaspoon powdered cinnamoii 

4 cups (1 qt.) onions, sliced 1 tea^)oon powdered cloves 

4 cups (1 qt.) vinegar 1 teaspoon powdered allspice 

5 cups (2i pts.) brown sugar 1 teaspoon pepper 

1 tablespoon salt 

Peel rhubarb and onions. Heat vinegar, add rhubarb, onions, 
sugar, spices, pepper, and salt. Cook slowly one and one fourth 
hours, then divide into bottles and seal while warm. 

Sweet Cocumber Pickles 

7 pounds ripe cucumbers 8 cups (4 pts.) brown sugar 

4 cups (1 qt.) vinegar 1 tablespoon pickling spioes 

Cut cucumbers in slices, remove seeds, and soak in salt water 
overnight. Drain and boil until tender in boiling water and 
drain again thoroughly. Pour vinegar into a saucepan, add 
sugar and spices, bring to boiling point, boil fifteen minutes, and 
pour over cucumbers. Seal in jars. 

Another Method. Soak cucumbers in brine overnight; in 
the morning rinse well and cook slowly till tender in a sirup 
of six cups sugar to four cups vinegar, and two inches cinnamon 
stick, one tablespoon mace, one tablespoon ginger, and one 
tablespoon mixed spioes. Seal in jars. 

To Cure Tongues 

li gallons (6 qts.) water 1 ounce saltpeter 

Come and fine salt 4 cups (2 pts.) brown sugar 

2 tongues 



300 ECONOMICAL COOKERY 

Add sufficient coarse salt to water to make a brine that will 
float an egg. Rub fine salt on tongues and let lie two 
dajrs. Wash well, put them in the brine; add saltpeter and 
brown sugar. Cover and tie securely. Let remain three weeks 
or longer. Wash in cold water when ready for use. Put on to 
boil in cold water. Boil slowly and when well cooked remove 
from fire, then let cool and skin. Slice thin. Put the end 
and unsightly portions through a food chopper and use with 
salad dressing as filling for sandwiches. 

To Dry Com 
Com ears . Warm water 

Select juicy, milky ears of com which are not too old. With 
sharp knife, remove just tops of kernels, then scrape out rest of 
com with a downwards stroke of the knife. Be carefiii not to 
get any of the cob. Spread on plates or pie tins and place in 
oven three or four hours to dry. When completely dry, turn 
into a pail and cover well. When ready to use, soak in warm 
water three hours, then bring to boiling point and cook two 
minutes, and serve seasoned with salt, pepper, and butter. 

Tomato Catchup 

i peck ripe tomatoes, peeled 1 teaspoon celery seeds 

2 long red peppers i cup (1} gills) white mustard 

2 large onions, peeled seeds 

i cup (2 ozs.) salt 1 cup (} pt.) grated horse-radish 

1 cup (i lb.) sugar or honey 1 tablespoon black pepper 

4 cups (1 qt.) best vinegar 

Grind tomatoes, peppers, and onion through food chopper; 
add salt, sugar, seeds, horse-radish, pepper, and vinegar. Mix 
together, but do not cook. Seal in air-tight jars. 

Tomato Conserve 

Ripe sound tomatoes Mixed spices 

Salt 

Put into an enameled saucepan as many tomatoes as are 
required, cook over slow fire until tomatoes become detached 



PBBSEBVING AND PICKLINQ 301 

from skins, strain through a fine sieve, pressing with a wooden 
spoon, and throw away the first watery liquor that passes through 
sieve. Return to pan with a little mixed spices (one half table- 
spoon to each pound), and add salt to taste ; stir over slow fire 
until pulp, is condensed, turn into earthenware dish, and let cool. 
When cold fill into sterilized bottles and allow to stand over hot 
water fifteen minutes. Cork when perfectly cold and keep in 
cool place. 



CHAPTER XXVI 

MISCELLANEOUS 

" Variety alone gives joy." 

Baked and Fried Bananas 

Bananas Lemon juice 

Sugar Salt 

Melted butt^ Batter 

Cut aboui one fourth of an inch from each end, but do not 
peel bananas. Lay them in a greased baking dish, and bake 
in hot oven fifteen minutes. When done the skin should burst 
open like that of a baked apple. Then turn bananas over, and 
bake five minutes on other side. Serve very hot. 

Another Method. Remove a strip of the skin, cutting off 
each end as before, and place in a shallow pan with exposed 
side up. Melt two tablespoons of sugar, two of butter melted, 
and two of lemon juice with pinch of salt, and baste bananas 
with this while they are baking for fifteen minutes. Serve very 
hot. 

Slice ripe baoonas lengthwise, and fry in hot lard. E^t 
with meat, or serve sprinkled with sugar. A squeeze of lemon 
juice is an improvement. 

Peel ripe bananas, dip them whole or sliced in batter, and fry 
in smoking hot fat until crisp and brown. 

Peel ripe bananas, and place in a pudding dish, sprinkle a 
little lemon juice and sugar on them, half cover with water, and 
bake for twenty minutes. When cool serve with custard, creamy 
or milk. 

3Q2 



MlBOELLANBOnS 303 

Cabbage and Ham 

1 cabbage 1 tablespoon (i 08.) butter^sub- 

Salt stitute 

Sugar 1 elioe oooked bam 

Pepper Parsley 

Remove outside leaves from cabbage and soak in cold water 
forty minutes and drain well. Cook in boiling salted water 
until tender, drain and reheat in butter substitute, add salt and 
pepper to taste and pinch of sugar. Serve on hot platter with 
cooked ham on one side and garnish with parsley. 

Cheese Cutlets 

3 tablespoons (1| oss.) butter 1 cup (4 oza.) grated cream 
substitute cheese 

2 tablespoons (i oz.) cornstarch 2 eggs, separated 
2 tablespoons (i os.) flour i teaspoon salt 

i cup (H gills) milk i teaspoon pepper 

i teaspoon paprika 

Blend butter substitute, cornstarch, and flour in a saucepan, 
add milk and stir until boiling. Add cheese, yolks beaten, and 
seasonings. Cook until cheese is melted, turn into greased 
plate and cool. Form into cutlets, dip in flour, brush over with 
beaten egg whites, toss in bread crumbs, and fry in smoking hot 
fat. Drain and serve hot. 

This mixture is excellent for sandwiches. 

French Pancakes 

4 tablespoons (2 ozs.) butter sub- 2 tablespoons (1 os.) ground rice 
stitute 4 tablespoons (1 os.) flour 

4 tablespoons (2 on.) sugar 1 cup (i pt.) mUk 

2 eggs, beaten Strawberry or raspberry jam 

Cream butter substitute and sugar, add eggs, rice, flour, and 
milk, and mix well. Allow to remain in a cool place one and 
one half hours, so that the rice swells ; divide into well-greased 
saucers and bake in moderate oven fifteen to twenty minutes. 
Spread with jam and place one on another, or spread jam on one 
half and turn over like an omelet. 



304 ECONOMICAL COOKERY 

An Economical French Egg-pancake may be made as follows: 
Take one or more eggs, and beat them well ; add one table- 
spoon of milk to each egg, salt and pepper to taste. Melt a 
little fat in a small fr3ring pan, and cook half the egg mixture 
until set. Turn out on to a hot plate, and spread the top with 
jam. Fry the remainder of the egg mixture, and lay on top 
of first one. If this is placed between thin buttered slices of 
bread, the children wiU be able to take it to school. 

Fried Gnocchi 

1 cup (} pt.) milk i tea0poon pepper 

1 cup (i lb.) flour i teaspoon paprika 

2 eggs 4 tablespoons (2 osB.) butter 
1 teaspoon salt substitute 

2 tablespoons grated cheese 

Boil milk, put in flour all at once, and stir vigorously until 
mixture leaves sides and bottom of pan clean ; remove from fire 
and beat in egg?, one at a time, until smooth, then add season- 
ings, and tmn out to cool. When cold, divide into squares, 
dredge with flour or com meal. Melt butter substitute in small 
frying pan, and, when hot, put in gnocchi and fry imtO nicely 
browned. When cooked, drain on paper, dish, on hot platter, 
sprinkle over with cheese, and serve hot. 

Green Tomato Mincemeat 

1 peck green tomatoes 1 cup (i pt.) vinegar 
10 cups (5 lbs.) sugar 2 lemons 

2 tablespoons salt 2 teaspoons powdered cloves 

4 cups (2 lbs.) seeded raisins, 2 teaspoons powdered cinnamon 

chopped 2 teaspoons powdered allspice 

1 cup (4 ozs.) suet, chopped 1 tea^K)on powdered nutmeg 

1 teaspoon powdered mace 

Chop tomatoes, drain, and scald them by pouring boiling 
water over and allowing to stand until cold. Put them into 
preserving kettle, add sugar, salt, raisins, and suet, and cook 
slowly until tender. Cool and add vinegar, strained lemon juice, 
and spices. Store in jars and use for pies. 



MISCELtANEOUS 305 

Hopping John 

2 cups (1 pt.) field peas 2 cups (1 lb.) rice 

} pound bacon ] teaspoon salt 

1 small onion, cut fine } teaspoon pepper 

i teaspoon paprika 

Wash peas and soak ovemight. Drain and put them into 
saucepan, cover with boiling water, add onion, and cook thirty 
minutes. Wash bacon, add it, and continue to cook two hours, 
adding hot water if it boils low. Wash and drain rice, add it to 
peas with seasonings, and when rice is cooked set pan on back of 
stove to steam contents fifteen minutes. Use a fork to stir, 
as it is apt to stick. Place peas and rice in hot dish with bacon 
on top. If this dish is reheated next day, it is called Limping 
Kate. 

Hygienic Mincemeat 

4 cups (1 lb.) suet, chopped by 1 cup (} lb.) candied citron peel, 

hand chopped 

4 cups (1 lb.) bread crumbs 6 cups (3 pts.) apples, chopped 

8 cups (2 lbs.) currants 1 tablespoon powdered cinnamon 

4 cups (2 lbs.) seeded raisins 1 tablespoon powdered cloves 

6 cups (2i lbs.) sugar 1 teaspoon powdered ginger 

1 cup (i lb.) candied lemon peel, 1 teaspoon powdered mace 

chopped 1 teaspoon powdered nutmeg 

1 cup (i lb.) candied orange peel, 1 tablespoon salt 

chopped 4 cups (1 qt.) boiled cider 

Mix all ingredients thoroughly together and seal in sterilized 
jars. Do not cook mixture. Use for pies. 



Inexpensive Lemon Butter 

1 lemon 1 egg 

1 cup (i lb.) sugar 2 tablespoons (1 oz.) butter ] 

2 tablespoons water 

Lito the upper pan of a double boiler put grated rind and 
strained juice of lemon, sugar, and egg. Beat well, add butter 
and water. Place over boiling water and cook three minutes, 
stirring constantly. Use as a filling for layer cakes or tartlets. 



306 ECONOMICAL COOKEBT 

Norfolk Dumplings 

4 cups (1 lb.) flour 1 teaspoon salt 

1 compresBed yeast cake 1 cup (i pt.) warm water 

1 teaspoon sugar 

These dumplings are delicious to serve with any kind of 
boiled meaty or with stews or braised meat. 

Sift flour and salt into a large bowl. Mix yeast and sugar 
together until they become liquid. Mix these with the tepid, 
but not hot, water, and use only half the water, in case all of it is 
not required. Make a well in the flour, strain in yeast and water, 
and with a wooden spoon stir flour in smoothly and gradually. 
Then work it all in with a spoon, adding more water as it k 
needed until the flour is all worked into a soft, smooth, but not 
sticky dough. Knead for a few minutes on a floured baking 
board, place it back in the bowl, cover with a clean cloth, and 
set to rise until doubled in bulk. Then form dough into small 
balls, put these into a large saucepan of fast-boiling salted water, 
and cook quickly fifteen minutes. Drain well and serve at onoe. 

These dumplings are also excellent to serve as a pudding, and 
can be eaten with sirup, preserves, or butter and sugar. 

Or take any bread dough left over from baking, and divide 
it iato small balls. Drop these into a saucepan of boiling water, 
slightly salted, and boil thirty minutes, or imtil dumplings are 
well cooked. Serve hot with honey, sirup, or preserves. 

Nttt Croquettes 

1 small onion, chopped i teaspoon pepper . 

2 tablespoons (1 oa.) butter 1 teaspoon lemon juice 

1 tableepoon flour 1 cup (4 ozs.) KngJiwh walnut 
1 cup (i pt.) milk meats, chopped 

1 cup (4 ozs.) bread crumbs 1 cup (4 oses.) peanuts, ch<^ped 

2 eggSy beaten Hot fat 

1 teaspoon salt White or tomato sauce 

Fry onion in butter. When lightly browned stir in flour, milk, 
bread crumbs, eggs, seasoning?, and nuts. Cook five minutes, 
then turn out on platter to cool. Form mixture into neat 
croquettes, brush over with beaten egg, toss in bread crumbs, 
and fry in smoking hot fat. Drain and serve with sauce. 



MISCELLANEOUS 307 

Nut Stuffing 

4 tablespoons (2 oss.) butter sub- 1 tablespoon chopped parsley 

stitute 1 teaspoon salt 

1 cup (i lb.) chopped nut meats } teaspoon pepper 

1 slice onion, chopped 1 egg, beaten 

i cup (2 ozs.) bread crumbs 1 tablespoon milk 

Melt butter substitute in small saucepan, add nuts and onion, 
and fry until lightly browned, mix well, add bread crumbs, 
parsley, seasonings, egg, and milk. Mix together and use for 
stuffing poultry or game, and certain vegetables. 

Or, mix one and one half cups chopped nut meats with one 
cup mashed potatoes, add four tablespoons melted butter substi- 
tute, one chopped onion, one teaspoon powdered herbs, one half 
teaspoon pepper, one teaspoon salt and milk or water to moisten. 

A Fine Peanut Stuffing. Mix three fourths cup of moistened 
cracker crumbs with two tablespoons butter substitute, melted, 
one half teaspoon each onion juice and salt, one fourth teaspoon 
each pepper and paprika, one half cup chopped roasted peanuts 
and one half cup cream. This mixture is used for stuffing ducks. 

Onion and Sage Stuffing 

2 Spanish onions, peeled i teaspoon pepper 

1 cup (4 OSS.) bread crumbs i teaspoon powdered mace 

li teaspoons powdered sage i teaspoon sugar 

1 teaspoon salt 2 tableqxx)ns vegetable oil or 

melted butter substitute 

Cut onions in thick slices, put them into a saucepan, cover with 
boiling salted water, and bring to the boil and strain off this 
water. Cover again with boiling, slightly salted water and 
boil thirty minutes, drain, press onions dry as possible and chop, 
put them into a bowl, add bread crumbs, seasonings, and vege- 
table oil. Mix well togisther and use. This stuffing is used 
for roast duck, goose, or roast pork. If fresh sage is used, boil 
leaves a few minutes, dry well, and then chop finely. 

Oyster Shortcake 

4 cups (1 qt.) oysters 1 teaspoon salt 

3 tablespoons (li o».) butter } teaspoon pepper 
1 tableQ)oon flour 3 tablespoons cream 



308 ECONOMICAL COOKERY 

Drain and clean oysters, scald and strain liquor and cook 
oysters in liquor until edges curl. Blend butter and flour in 
saucepan over fire, add seasonings, cream, and oysters. Stir 
over fire one half minute and fill shortcake and serve at onoe. 

Shortcake 

2 cups (} lb.) flour } cup (2 ozs.) shortenins 

i teaspoon salt } cup (1} gills) milk 

2 teaspoons baking powder 1 egg, beaten 

Mix and sift dry ingredients four times, cut and rub in shorten- 
ing, add milk and egg. Mix and spread on greased tin and 
bake in hot oven twenty minutes. Split apart at edges, cool 
five minutes, spread with butter, add oyster mixture. 

Oyster Stuffing 

2 cups (1 pt.) oysters } teaspoon pepper 

1 cup (i lb.) bread crumbs } teaspoon paprika 

2 teaspoons chopped parsley 4 tablespoons (2 ozs.) butter sub- 
1 teaspoon salt stitute, melted 

Drain oysters and cut them into small pieces, add bread 
crumbs, parsley, seasonings, melted butter substitute, and 
enough of the oyster liquor to make stuffing of a softish con- 
sistency. This may be used for stuffing fish or poultry. 

Shrimp stuffing may be made in the same way, adding one 
beaten egg or a little milk in place of oyster liquor. 

Potato and Oyster Pie 

Short pastry Salt 

6 large potatoes Pepper 

20 oysters Melted butter 

Hot milk 

Line a pie dish with short crust. Pare and slice potatoes and 
drain oysters. Into pastry-lined dish put a layer of potatoes, 
one of ojTsters, until there are three layers of potatoes and two 
layers of 03r8ters. Season each layer with salt, pepper, and 
melted butter. Pour in oyster liquor and place on a top crust. 
Bake in moderate oven one hour and serve with or without milk. 



MISCELLANEOUS 309 

Potted Cheese 

2 eupe (i lb.) cheese Powdered maoe 

3 tablespoons (1) ozs.) butter Vinegar 

Red pepper Made mustard 

Any scraps of good cheese may be used for potting ; it is a 
good way to use up remnants. Remove rind, and either 
chop or grate the pieces, which will make the poimding easier. 
Pound cheese with butter. Sometimes olive oil is used instead 
of butter. Season to taste and pound until a smooth paste is 
formed. Pack this into small jars and cover with clarified butter. 

Raisin Dumplings 

1 cup (i lb.) flour i cup (2 ozs.) seeded raisins 
i cup (2 ozs.) rice flour 1 cup (} pt.) milk 

4 tablespoons com meal 2 teaspoons baking powder 

} cup (2 ozs.) butter substitute i tea^)oon salt 

Sift flours into a bowl, add com meal, cut and rub in butter 
substitute, add raisins, baking powder, salt, and milk. Knead 
lightly until free from cracks, form into small balls with the 
hands, using a little flour to prevent dough sticking. Drop 
into a saucepan of boiling water, and boil thirty minutes, or 
until well cooked. Lift out with drainer, and serve hot in hot 
casserole, with hot milk or any preferred sweet sauce. 

Savory Bread Pudding 

To Accompany Roast Pork or Ooose 

} pound pieces stale bread 1 teaspoon powdered sage 

2 cups (1 pt.) boiling milk 1 teaspoon powdered thyme 
1 cup (i lb.) suet, chopped 1 teaspoon chopped parsley 
1 tablespoon fine oatmeal 2 eggs, beaten 

4 onions, chopped 1 teaspoon salt 

i teaspoon pepper 

Put bread into a bowl, pour over milk, cover with plate, and 
allow to remain until bread has taken up as much of milk as it 
will. Drain away superfluous liquid, mash bread to a pulp, 
removing any hard lumps ; add suet, oatmeal, onions, season- 
ings, and eggs. If too dry add a little milk. Bake in a large 



310 ECONOMICAL COOKEBT 

flat pan, which has been liberally greacied and not more than 
half fillod with mixture, one and one half hours in modoate 
oven. Baste now and then with a spoonful of hot 



Self-raising Flour 

6 pounds flour i ounce salt 

i cup (1} ozs.) cornstarch 3 ouiioes cream ci tartar 

1} ounces baking soda 

Mix ingredients and sift them four times. Keep in large jv 
or can closely covered. When keeping self-raising flour or 
similar preparations, it is important to observe that a very dry 
place should be used for the storage. Damp or any moisture 
is apt to severely affect the raising property. Also, when using 
self-raising flour, it is well to bear in mind that as soon as liquid 
is added to the mixture, be it for cakes or pastry, it should be 
baked as quickly as possible, else the value of the raising agents 
will be lost. 

Spanish Rice 

} cup (6 ozs.) rice 2 medium-sised sweet green 

} medium-siced onion, chopped peppers, cut fine 

4 shoes bacon, cut small 1 tea^x>on salt 

i can tomatoes } teaspoon pepper 

Boil rice in boiling salted water until tender and drain. 
Brown onion and bacon in saucepan, add tomatoes and peppers, 
and cook thirty minutes. Add rice and seasonings and serve 
very hot. 

Suet Dumplings 

} cup (2 OES.) suet, chopped } teaspoon pepper 

1 cup (4 ozs.) flour i teaspoon paprika 

i teaspoon salt 1 teaspoon baking powder 

Cold water 

Chop suet fine, add flour, seasonings, and baking powder, and 
moisten with water, being careful not to make paste too wet. 
Form into small dumplings, using a little flour. Drop into 
boiling salted water or stock and boil gently fifteen minutes. 
Drain, put them in hot soup tureen, and poiu: hot soup ovar. 



laSCELLANlfiOtJS 311 



Sweet Potatoes and MarshmaUows 

12 sweet potatoes 4 tablespoons (2 ois.) butter 

4 tablespoons (2 ozs.) sugar } teaspoon salt 

MarshmaUows 

Boil potatoes until tender, peel and mash them, add sugar, 
butter, and salt, and mix well. Turn into greased baking dish, 
cover top with marshmallows, and place in moderate oven long 
enough for marshmallows to swell and brown. Serve hot. 

Tomato Hot Pot 

1 pound mutton 1 onion 

1 cup (i pt.) stock or water 1 tablespoon flour 

1 can tomatoes 1 teaspoon salt 

4 potatoes i teaspoon pepper 

i teaspoon paprika 

Remove all skin, fat, and gristle from meat, and cut it into 
small pieces. Peel and dice potatoes and shred onion. Add 
seasonings to floiu: and dip meat into it piece by piece. Put 
layer of potatoes into casserole, then layer of onion and tomatoes, 
then layer of meat, until dish is full. A layer of potatoes should 
come last. Pour over stock, put on cover, cook in moderate 
oven three hours. Serve in dish it was cooked in. 



CHAPTER XXVn 

WRINKLES 

" Pray you, take note of it." 

Raisins with Oil 

Wash and dry one package of seeded raisins, put them into a 
china dish, add one half cup of the best olive oil, cover and place 
it in a warm oven for two or three hours, stirring raisins occa- 
sionally ; when raisins are soft and swollen and oil is absorbed, 
they are ready for use. If raisins are greasy, use less oil, aa 
the absorption varies with the quality of fruit. 

Six to eight raisins may be taken before breakfast or between 
meals. They are excellent for children, and being a nourishing 
food, will not weaken the body like an ordinary aperient. 

Browning for Gravies, Soups, Stews, etc. 

Put one half pound brown or white sugar into an old iron pan, 
stir with an iron spoon until it melts and turns a dark brovm 
color, then add one half cup water, taking care to prevent it 
boiling over, boil until sugar is quite dissolved and bottle when 
eold. A small quantity of this gives a very rich color. 

Brown Glaze for Coating Tongues, Ham, Etc. 

Put two cups aspic jelly into a saucepan, add one sliced tomato, 
one teaspoon salt, one half teaspoon pepper, one teaspoon meat 
extract, and a few drops red color and boil until reduced to 
one half the quantity ; rub through a sieve, and when it com- 
mences to set, use for coating hams, tongues, galantines, pressed 
beef, etc. This is usuaUy applied with a brush. 

312 



WRINKLES 313 

To Clarify Fat 

Cut up into small pieces any scrape of cooked or uncooked 
fat, put into an iron saucepan, cover with cold water, bring 
slowly to the boil, and skim ofif the thick scum thoroughly; 
then allow it to boil slowly until all the water has evaporated 
and the pieces of fat are crisp. When a little cool, strain, and 
it is ready for frying, or for recipes where shortening is stated. 

To Cover a Padding with Paper 

Take a piece of paper, twice folded, about one and one half 
inches larger than the pudding mold, all round ; grease the center, 
hold it firmly on the top of mold with the left hand, and roll 
edge firmly under the right hand. This mode will be found to 
answer the purpose as well as a pudding cloth, and is much 
more convenient. 

To Make Bread Cnimbs 

Take crumbly part of stale bread, and rub it through a wire 
sieve with the palm of the hand. 

To Make Brown Bread Crumbs. Take stale bread, put it 
into a slow oven to dry, and bake a golden brown shade, crush 
with a rolling pin, pass through a fine sieve, or put through food 
chopper. Keep in air-tight jars or bottles. 

Bggs for Breakfast or Luncheon 

Put a small quantity of butter in small frying pan, break in 
the egffs, and season with salt and pepper to taste. Place on 
moderate fire, add three tablespoons of water, and cover. Cook 
until eggs are firm. These eggs are delicious with a thin white 
covering over the yellow. They are much like poached eggs 
without the inconvenience of trimming and the watery flavor 
which poached eggs usually have, and are quite as digestible. 
A small sprinkling of onion salt may be used if liked. 

Cream as Food 

Cream is superior to butter as a food, for by permitting the 
gastric juices to mix with it in the natural state, it assists 



314 ECONOMICAL COOKEBT 

digestion. For invalids it serves as a nutrient in the most eajsily 
available form. It is superior to butter, as it contains more 
volatile oil in that state than after the process of churning. 
People often have an impression that they are unable to digest 
milk; the richer the milk the easier of digestion, therefore 
many people can take a tumbler of milk that has a wineglass of 
cream in it when they could not digest milk alone. 

Flying Bacon or Ham 

When frying ham or bacon for breakfast always place it in the 
pan before putting it on the fire. It cooks and browns much 
quicker and better than if put on in a warm pan. 

Why Batter is Beaten 

Correct beating introduces air into the mixture ; air expands 
with heat. As it expands, it lifts up — raises — the batter, and 
80 makes it light. After the beating is finished, stir in the rest 
of the milk, but there must be no more beating, for now the batter 
is thin, and blows from the spoon would break the bubbles, 
and permit air to escape. Let batter stand one hour, if possible, 
in order to pennit the starch grains to swell. 

For Creamy Fudge 

To have fudge of a creamy texture, place the pan in cold water 
immediately on taking pan from the fire and stir — not beat — 
the mixture with a wooden spoon. Slightly warm pans into 
which fudge or peanut brittle is to be poured. The candy 
will be of a more uniform thickness, and peanut brittle can be 
made thinner than when pans are cold. 

How to Make Tough Meat Tender 

Many persons do not care for stews, or at least grow tired 
of them in time. Here is a plan which might be tried with 
advantage. First, steam a joint of meat for two hours, then 
finish cooking by roasting in the oven. To steam, place it in a 
large saucepan upon a trivet or anything that will raise it from 
bottom of pan. Fill up with boiling water almost as far as 



WBINKLES 315 

meat, but not touching it. Cover pan and steam steadily for 
required time. Be careful that water does not boil away during 
cooking, or pan will bum. Replenish with boiling water when 
water seems to be getting low. When well steamed, take up 
meat, rub it over with dripping?, and put some dripping? also 
in roasting pan. Bake in hot oven thirty minutes, basting fre- 
quently. Gravy may be made in pan as for any other roast 
meat. 

Potato Parings 

Potato parings should not be wasted. Dried, they form ex- 
cellent kindling for a fire ; and boiled and added to barley meal 
or bran they make very good food for ducks and chickens. 

To Remove Smell of Onions 

To remove smell of onions from knives, place them in the 
earth for a few minutes. Earth will also sweeten pickle jars 
that washing seems powerless to render fit for use, but in this 
case the jars should be filled with earth and allowed to remain 
twenty-four hours or so. 

Lemonade Powder 

To make lemonade powder, take one half ounce citric acid, 
four ounces sugar, and ten drops lemon extract. Mix all thor- 
oughly, and rub twice through a clean sieve. Two teaspoons of 
this powder will make a good glass of lemonade. 

To Freshen Pastry 

To freshen pastry, sprinkle it well with cold water, put it in the 
oven, and reheat. Puff pastry is the only kind that cannot be 
freshened in this way. 

To Keep Lemons 

Lemons will keep indefinitely in a cool place if covered with 
water. This should be changed every second day. They may 
also be stored in dry sand. 



316 ECONOMICAL COOKEBT 

To Soften Hard Candied Peel 

Candied peel that has become dry and hard should be separated 
from the rest, then sliced or chopped and put into a dish with 
enough wine to moisten it. It is then ready for use in puddings 
which are cooked in an hour or two — and there are many 
such — for this preliminary soaking not only softens and flavors 
the peel, but renders it more digestible. As all know, candied 
peel is one of those iagredients that can hardly be cooked too 
long, hence, in carrying out this hint, one is certain to improve 
the dish to which the peel is added. 

To Thicken Stews 

Crusts of bread put into a stew at the commencement may be 
used to thicken it instead of flour. When dishing up pass the 
liquor, together with the bread and vegetables, through a fine 
sieve. This makes an excellent thickening for a sauce. 

Boiling Beans 

In boiling dried beans, do not put in the salt until the beans 
are nearly cooked, otherwise they are apt to split and crack. 

About Orange Marmalade 

Orange marmalade may with great advantage be substituted 
for candied peel for boiled pudding when the latter is not at 
hand. Indeed, if anything, a little marmalade added to suet 
puddings is a decided improvement. 

To Make a Spice Bag 

A spice bag filled with the following ingredients will be found a 
great time saver. It can just be dropped into soup and boiled 
until enough of the flavor is extracted, then rinsed in hot water, 
and it is ready for use again. Tie up together one teaspoon 
peppercorns, one teaspoon doves, one blade mace, three bay 
leaves, six allspice berries, one saltspoon celery seed, and a small 
bunch of herbs. 



WRINKLES 317 

To Make Crodtons for Sottp 

Cut bread one fourth inch thick, stamp out in small rounds or 
squares. Put one half cup butter substitute into a saucepan 
and allow to melt ; when hot, throw in bread and fry a golden 
color. Drain on paper and use. Or the croAtons may be soaked 
for a short time in stock or milk and browned on a greased tin 
in a hot oven. 

To make croAtons for garnishing, cut bread in slices not more 
than one half inch in thickness, then cut in fancy shapes, such 
as crescents, triangles, etc. Fry as above. 

To make pastry crodtons, roll out some scraps of pastry very 
thin and cut it in shreds one inch in length, and bake or fry 
these until browned. Drain and serve hot. To make fleurona 
of pastry, roll out scrape of pastry one fourth inch in thickness, 
and cut out with fancy cutters. Place these on a greased baking 
tin, brush over with milk or beaten egg, and bake in hot oven until 
browned. These are used as a garnish for hash, etc. 



^/ 



CHAPTER XXVIII 

WHAT TO SERVE WITH FISH, MEATS, AND 

VEGETABLES 



" With ease, 
Or with a little shuffling you may choose. 



t» 



With Boiled Fish 

Serve with boiled fish, rich white sauce, drawn butter sauce, 
^g, Hollandaise, or Bechamel sauces. Boiled potato balls 
may be served on the same dish. Garnish with slices of lemon, 
or slices of hard-cooked egg?. 

Serve with baked fish, brown sauce. Garnish with lemon and 
parsley. 

With Meats 

Serve with roast beef, Yorkshire pudding, baked whit« 
potatoes, or mashed potatoes, gravy, hot or cold horse-radish 
sauce, boiled or brown sweet potatoes, com, tomatoes, spinach, 
or carrots. 

Serve with cold beef, pickles, aspic jelly, salad with French 
dressing, or relishes. 

Serve with boiled beef, cabbage and other vegetables boiled, 
or dumplings, or bofled potatoes, string beans, or browned 
parsnips. 

Serve with boiled mutton, caper sauce, boiled rice, or vege- 
tables. 

Serve with roast mutton, red currant jelly, brown sauce, gravy. 

Serve with cold mutton, sliced tomatoes with French dressing. 

Serve with lamb, mint sauce, gravy, cucumbers with cream 
sauce, peas. 

318 



WHAT TO SERVE WITH FISH, ETC. 319 

Serve with cold lamb, lettuce and mint salad, with French 
dressing. 

Serve with corned beef, boiled cabbage, turnips, boiled 
potatoes. 

Serve with tongue, carrots, raisin sauce, or rice. 

Serve with minced steak, hashed browned potatoes, lettuce 
or celery salad. 

Serve with rolled steak, brown or tomato sauce, potato puffs, 
and vegetables. 

Serve with beef hearty mashed potatoes, buttered beets, 
carrots, or parsnips. 

Serve with roast veal, gravy, grilled bacon, or ham. 

Serve with veal cutlets, tomato sauce, rice balls, peas. 

Serve with stewed veal, dumplings, baked potatoes. 

Serve with boiled veal, parsley sauce. 

Serve with cold veal, celery mayonnaise, lettuce or tomato 
salad. 

Serve with roast pork, apple sauce, gravy, dried beans, peas, 
or lentils. 

Serve with cold pork, apple sauce, cabbage or celery salad. 

Serve with braised ham, brown sauce. 

Serve with baked ham, or boiled ham, cider sauce, or currant 
jelly, sweet potatoes, cabbage salad with French dressing. 

Serve with boiled rabbit, pickled pork, onion sauce. 

Serve with roast rabbit, sage stufOng, brown tomato sauce, 
fried potato chips. 

Serve with roast fowl, bread sauce, gravy, grilled bacon, 
watercress, fried potatoes. 

Serve with boiled fowl, egg or parsley sauce. 

Serve with roast or braised duck, gravy, apple sauce, orange 
sauce, fried potatoes. 

Serve with roast tiu'key, cranberry sauce, bread sauce, gravy, 
griUed sausages. 

Serve with boiled turkey, celery, oyster or egg sauce. 

Serve with squabs, gravy, toasted bread, and watercress. 

Serve with roast goose, apple sauce, gravy, or chestnut purfe, 
or fried potatoes. 

Serve with guinea fowl, bread sauce, watercress, gravy. 



320 ECONOMICAL COOKBBY 

Serve with hare, red currant jelly, forcemeat balls. 
Serve with every meat course one starchy and one greeD 
vegetable. The green vegetable may be a salad. 

With Vegetables 

Serve with asparagus or artichokes; melted butter, HoUan- 
daise sauce. 

Serve with Jerusalem artichokes, cauliflower or beans, white, 
parsley, or tomato sauce. 

Serve with peas, sweet butter, mint flavor. 

Serve with celery or onions, white, brown, or parsley sauce. 



tt 



CHAPTER XXrX 

MBiniS 

On hospitable thought intent." 

Breakfast 

Cereal with Dates Parsley Omelet Bran Muffins 

CofiFee 

Luncheon or Supper 

Risotto Oatmeal Bread and Butter Raisin Pie 

Tea or Cocoa 

Dinner 

Irish Stew Lettuce Salad, French Dressing 

Apple Snow CofiFee 

Breakfast 

Farina with Raisins Codfish Balls Buckwheat Cakes 

Cofifee 



Luncheon or Supper 

Cold Baked Bean Salad 
Brown Bread Rhubarb Stewed with Raisins 

Cocoa or Tea 



Dinner 

Corned Beef Potatoes Cabbage 

Cottage Pudding, Chocolate Sauce CofiFee 

321 



322 ECONOMICAL COOKBBT 



Breakfast 

Commeal Mush, Sauted Soft-Boiled Eggs Popoven 

Cereal Coffee 



Luncheon or Sapper 

Potato Cassolettes Baked Apples 

Ginger Cookies Coooa or Tea 

Dinner 

Onion Soup 

Pilaff of Mutton Sweet Potato Croquettes Spinach 

Cheese Crackers Coffee 



Breakfast 

Cereal Creamed Dried Beef Griddle Cakes, Sirup or Honey 

Coffee 



Luncheon or Supper 

l^almon Croquettes, Tomato Sauce Celery Salad 

Rolls Tea or Cocoa 



Dmner 

Rolled Flank of Beef, Braised 
Potatoes on the Half Shell Molded Spinach 

Pineapple Junket Coffee 



Breakfast 

Oatmeal with Figs Fried Oysters Eggless Com Bread 

Coffee 



Luncheon or Supper 

Cheese Croquettes Stewed Tomatoes 

Oatmeal Drop Cakes Cocoa or Tea 



MENUS 



323 



Boiled Potatoes 



Dinner 
Boiled Fishy Egg Sauoe 

Canned Peach Sherbet 
Coffee 



Green Peas 



Breakfast 



Berry Mush 

Raisin Bread, Toasted 



Creamed Finnan Haddie 
Coffee 



Crackers 



Luncheon or Supper 

Oyster Stew 

Cold Slaw 

Cocoa or Tea 



Date Pie 



Dinner 

Baked Beef Loaf, Brown Gravy 
Peppers Boiled Rice 

Honeycomb Pudding 



Coffee 



Breakfast 

Boiled Barley Kippered Herrings 

Dry Toast 



Creamed Potatoes 
Coffee 



Luncheon or Supper 
Deviled Sardines Potato Salad, Boiled Dressing 



Raisin Cookies 



Cocoa or Tea 



Dinner 

Chicken Pie 



Browned Potatoes 

Orange Jelly 



Creamed Carrots 
Coffee 



Breakfast 



Cereal with Apples 

Graham RoUs 



Tripe Fried in Batter 
Coffee 



324 



ECONOMICAL COOKBBT 



Cheese Pudding 



Luncheon or Supper 

Pocketbook Rolls 
Cocoa or Tea 



Fruit Salad 



Dinner 

Baked Stuffed Fish 
Potatoes au Gratin Creamed Cauliflower 

Lettuce Salad, Boiled Dressing 
Fig Puffs Coffee 



Hominy with Prunes 



Breakfast 

Lamb Chops 
Coffee 



Potato Biseuite 



Kedgeree 



Luncheon or Supper 



Cocoa or Tea 



Apple Tart 



Sweet Potatoes 
Celery Salad 



Dinner 

Chicken en Casserole 

Coffee 



Spiced Currants 
Cheese Cracken 



Baked Apples 



Breakfast 

Liver and Bacon 
Coffee 



Com Muffins 



Luncheon or Supper 
Cottage Cheese Sliced Pineapple 



Nut and Raisin Bread 



Tea or Cocoa 



Dinner 

Boiled Tongue Boiled Spinach 

Vanilla Ice Cream 



Fried Potatoes 
Coffee 



BIBNUS 325 



Breakfast 



Stewed Apples Cereal with Milk Eggs in Potato Cases 

BaJdng-powder Biscuits Coffee 



Luncheon or Supper 

Curried Fish with Rice Cheese Fingers 

Tea or Cocoa 



Dinner 

Roast Leg of Mutton 

Potatoes Cauliflower Shaved Cabbage, Boiled Dressing 

Pineapple Jelly Coffee 



Breakfast 

Cereal with Milk Scrambled Eggs 

French Toast, Marmalade Coffee 



Luncheon or Supper 

Rice Croquettes, Cheese Sauce 
Onion and Celery Salad Whole Wheat Bread 

Tea or Cocoa 



Dinner 

Bean Soup 
Macaroni Cutlets, Tomato Sauce Fruit Whip 

Coffee 



« 



CHAPTER XXX 

TIME-TABLE FOR COOKING 

The youthful housekeeper is not so very wise. 
So let not the older these few hints despise." 



Beef, loin or ribs, rare, per pound 8 to 10 minutes 

Beef, loin or ribs, well done, per pound . . . . 12 to 16 minutes 

Beef, ribs, rolled, rare 12 to 15 minutes 

Beef, ribs, rolled, well done 15 to 18 minutes 

Beef, fiUet, rare 20 to 30 minutes 

Beef, fillet, well done 60 minutes 

Mutton, leg, rare, per pound 10 minutes 

Mutton, leg, well done, per pound 14 minutes 

Mutton, forequarter, stufTod, per pound . . . 15 to 25 minutes 

Lamb, well done, per pound 15 to 20 minutes 

Pot roast, per pound 10 minutes 

Veal, well done, per poimd 20 to 25 minutes 

Pork, well done, per pound 20 to 25 minutes 

Venison, rare, per poimd 40 minutes 

Chicken, per pound 15 to 20 minutes 

Turkey, 9 poimds 3 hours 

Goose, 9 pounds 2} hoiuis 

Duck, domestic 1 to 1} hours 

Duck, wild 20to30 minutes 

Ham 4to6 hours 

Fish, 3 or 4 pounds 45 to 60 minutes 

Small fish and fillets 20 minutes 

Beans with pork 6to8 hours 

Bread, white loaf 45 to 60 minutes 

Graham loaf 40to60 minutes 

Baking-powder Biscuits 12 to 15 minutes 

Popovers 30 to 35 minutes 

Gems 25 to 30 minutes 

Quick doughs 8 to 15 minutes 

326 



TIME-TABLE FOR COOKING 327 

Cookies 8 to 10 minutes 

Gingerbread 20to30 minutes 

Sponge cake 45to60 minutes 

Cake, layer 20to30 minutes 

Cake, loaf 40to60 minutes 

Fruit cake 2to4 hours 

Cake, wedding 3to5 hours 

Cakes, small 15 to 30 minutes 

Batter puddings 35to45 minutes 

Pies 30to60 minutes 

Tarts 16 to 20 minutes 

Patties 16 to 25 minutes 

Vol-au-vent 60 to 60 minutes 

Muifins, yeast 30 minutes 

Muffins, baking-powder 20 to 26 minutes 

Indian pudding 2to3 hours 

Rice or tapioca pudding 1 hour 

Bread puddings 46 to 60 minutes 

Scallop dishes 15 to 20 minutes 

Custard 36 to 46 minutes 

Custard in cups 20to30 minutes 

Boiling 

Meats 2to6 hours 

Corned meat 4to6 hours 

Ox tongue 3to4 hours 

Ham, 12 to 14 pounds 4to6 hours 

Turkey, 10 pounds 3to4 hours 

Fowl, 4 to 5 pounds 2to3 hours 

Chicken, 3 pounds 1 to li hours 

Fish, 2 to 6 pounds 30to46 minutes 

Lobster 26to30 minutes 

Cod, 3 to 6 pounds 20to30 minutes 

Halibut, thick piece 15 minutes 

Asparagus 20 to 40 minutes 

B^ms, shell or string lto3 hours 

Beets 2to4 hours 

Com 6tO'20 minutes 

Macaroni 20to40 minutes 

Bice 20to30 minutes 

Broiling 

Steak, 1 inch thick 4 to 10 minutes 

Steak, li inches 6 to 12 minutes 



328 BCONOMICAL COOKlfiBT 

Lamb or mutton chops 6 to 10 niinuteB 

Chicken 20 minateB 

Squabs 10 to 12 minutes 

Kidneys 3to6 minutes 

Shad, whitefish, and bluefish 15 to 20 minuts 

Fish slices 12 to 15 minutes 

Liver 4to5 minutes 

Flying 

Smelts and other small fish 3 to 5 minutes 

Breaded chops 5to8 minutes 

Potatoes, raw 4 to 10 minutes 

Fish balls and croquettes 1 minute 

Doughnuts and fritters 3to6 minutes 



CHAPTER XXXI 



WEIGHTS ANB^MSASURES 

" With weights and measures just and true 
With stoves of even heat 
Well buttered tins and quiet nerves 
Success will be complete." 



27i grains . 
16 drams . 
16 ounces . 
60 drops . 

3 teaspoons 

4 tablespoons 



16 tablespoons .... 

2gill8 

i pint 

1 pint 

2 pints 

4 quarts 

2 tablespoons butter . . 
2 tablespoons salt . . . 
2 tablespoons sugar . . . 
4 tablespoons flour . . . 

1 square chocolate . . . 
4 cups flour 

2 cups sugar 

2 cups butter 

1 cup chopped suet . . . 

1 cup crumbs 

1 cup chopped nut meats . 

1 cup currants .... 

2 tablespoons cake crumbs 
1 cup chopped cooked meat 



329 



dram 
ounce 
pound 
teaspoon 
tablespoon 
wineglass, 
i giU, or i 
cup 
cup 
cup 
cup 
cups 
quart 
gallon 
ounce 
ounce 
ounce 
ounce 
ounce 
pound 
pound 
pound 
pound 
pound 
pound 
pound 
ounce 
pound 




330 ECONOMICAL COOKERY 

1 cup bran 3 ounces 

1 cup seeded raisins 8 ounces 

1 cup Sultana raisins 6 ounces 

40 marshmallows 6 ounces 

1 cup Graham flour 5 oimces 

10 or 9 mediiun eggs 1 pound 

Si cups confectioners' sugar 1 pound 

1 cup com meal 6 ounces 

i cup ground rice 2 ounces 

} cup brown sugar 1} otmces 

2 cups grated cheese 8 ounces 

1 cup rice 8 ounces 

i cup fine oatmeal 3 ounces 

All materials are measured level, t.e., by filling spoon or cup 
more than full and leveling with a case knife. 

To measure meal, flour, sugar, and similar ingredients, sift 
lightly into the measure, then level. 

Standard measuring cups made of tin, aluminum, or glass, 
holding one half pint, always should be used. Coffee and tea 
cups vary so much that correct proportions cannot be obtained 
by using them. 

To measure a spoonful of dry material, fill the spoon heaping, 
then level. To measure one half spoonful, fill and level the 
spoon, then divide in half lengthwise; for quarter spoonfuls, 
divide the halves crosswise. 

Use level measurements in all recipes in this book. 









^ 



INDEX 



AciDfl, Vboetablb, 253 

Alpine eggB« 54 

Amount .of food required, 254 

Apple and orange marmalade, 288^ 

289 
Apple butter, 289 

custard, 152, 266 

ioe cream, 175 

pastry, 246 

rolls and sauce, 152 

sauce, 164 

water, 27 
Apples and rice. Baked, 153 
Apples, Canned, cold pack method, 
291 

Dried. 292 
Apple-sauce cake, 200 
Apricot custard, 224 

soup, 68 

squares (dried), 278 
Arrowroot porridge, 44 
Artichokes, Stuffed, 132 
Asparagus k ritalienne, 124-125 

omelet, 59 

Bacok and potato pastry, 246 
Bacon, How to choose, 4 
Bacon or ham. Frying, 314 
Baked and fried bananas, 302 
Baked apples and rice, 153 

bean sandwiches, 217 

beets, 125 

cabbage, 125 

chicken, 110 

finnan haddie, 243 

fish, 267 

French toast, 213-214 

ham, 98-99 

herrings, 82 

marrow pudding, 153-154 

peanut pudding, 255 

pork chops, 94 

rice pudding, 153-154 



Baked salmon, 82 

smelts, 267 

squash, 136 

sweet omelet, 59-60 
Baking, Process of, 11 

Time-table for, 326-327 
Baking-powder biscuits, 29-30 
Banana and pear jam, 289 

salad. 139 
Bananas, Baked and fried, 302 

Deviled, 227 
Banbury tartlets, 191-192 
Barbecue of poultry or game, 224 
Barberry jeUy, 289-290 
Barley and prunes, 44 
Barley water, 267 
Barm brack, 200-201 
Batter (for fish), 84-85 
Bean pies, 256 

pur6e with grated cheese, 69 
Beans, Boiling, 316 

Fried, 228 

Potted, 261-262 
Beans and potatoes en casserole, 

255 
Beef and egg sandwiches, 218 

and potato cutlets, 233-234 

How to choose, 3 

olives, 95 

roasted in Virginia style, 103-104 

sandwiches (raw), 271-272 

soup with savory dumplings, 69 

spiced, 104-105 

tea, 268 
Beef heart. Stuffed and roastdd, 94- 

95 
Beet and cabbage salad, 140 
Beets, Baked, 125-126 
Berry sauce (fresh), 167 
Beverages : Apple water, 27 

Caf6 au lait, 20 

Capillaire, 18 

Cherry Shrub, 18 



331 



332 



INDBZ 



Beverages: Chooa, 18 

ChoooUte, Hot, 23 

Cider oup, 19 

Cocoa, 19 

Coffee, 19 
loed, 20 

Cream neotar, 20 

Delidoua chocolate, 21 

Fruit drink, 21 

Gingerade, 22 

Ginger beer, 21-22 

Ginger beer powder, 22 

Ginger wine, 22 

Grapeade, 23 

Qoney beer, 23 

KoumisB, 24 

Lemonade, 24 

Lemon sinip, 24 

Oatmeal and cocoa cooler, 26 

Orgeat water, 26 

Pineapple, 26 

Prune water, 26 

Raspberry vinegar, 27 

Rhubarb, 17 

Tea,25>26 
punch, 27 
Birds, Game, 7 
BiKuits, baking-powder, 29-30 

Graham, 35-36 
Black currant jam, 290-291 
Blackberry and apple jelly, 290 
Boiled cauliflower, 126 

fish with sauce, 82 

frosting, 207 

fruit cake, 201 

hominy, 45 

lamb's head, 95-96 

leeks. 126-127 

maple frosting, 204 

neck or shoulder of mutton, 96 

parsnips, 130 

red cabbage, 127 

rice, 45-^16 

turkey, 110 
Boiling, Methods of, 13-14 

Time-table for, 327 
Boiling beans, 316 
Bone stock, 65, 70-71 
Bones, Marrow, 249 
Boston brown bread, 30 

stew, 97 
Bouillon, 67 



, in batter, 209 

Pickled, 298 
Braised carrots, 128 

steak, 96-97 

turkey. 111 
Braising, Method of, 11-12 
Bran muffins, 30 
Bread crumb omelet, 60 
Bread crumbs. To make, 313 
Bread griddlecakes, 31 

pudding, 309-310 

sauce, 111, 164 

slices, with cheese, 225 

BOuffl6, 256 
Bread making, 28-29 
Breads : Boston brown, 30 

Brown, 31 

Com, 33 

Fairy com, 34 

Health, 36 

Liberty, 36 

Nut, 39 

Nut and raisin 39 

Oatmeal, 37 

PuUed, 39 

Raisin, 37 

Rye, 40 

Virginia com 42 

Wheat 41 
Breakfast puffs without eggs* 31 
Brewis, 46 
Broiled eggplant, 127 

guinea fowl, 120-121 

partridges. 111 

tomatoes, 222 
Broiling. Method of, 12 

Time-table for, 327-^28 
Broth, Chicken, 269 

Mutton, 76 
Broths, 67 
Brown bread, 31 

Boston, 30 

ice cream, 175 
Brown gravy, 172 

sauce, 164-165 

stock, 65 
Browning for gravies, soup, stewa, 

etc., 312 
Brussels sprouts and tomatoes, 136- 

137 
Buckwheat gems, 32 
Bungalow salad, 140 



>.^ 



INDEX 



333 



Butter, How to judgBi 8 

Lemon, 305 
Buttermilk, 9 

cake, 201-202 

candy, 276 

dresBing, 147 
Butterscotch candy, 276 

Cabbaqb ani> ham, 303 

Baked, 125 

Boiled (red). 127 

nut and apple ealad, 140-141 

soup, 71 
Caf6 au lait, 20 

frapp6, 176 
Cakes, How to bake, 109-200 

How to mix, 198-190 
Cakes : Apple-sauce, 200 

Barm brack. 200-201 

Boiled fruit. 201 

Buttermilk, 201-202 

Chess, 202 

Chocolate, 202 

Cocoanut birthday, 203 

Cup, 204 

Custard spice, 203 

Economical chocolate, 204 

Eggless. milkless, butterless, 206 

English pork, 206 

Fruit, without eggs, 206-207 

Layer, with filling, 207 

Lightning mocha, 208 

Luncheon, 208 

Old-fashioned dried apple, 208- 
209 

Premier, 209 

Quick coffee, 209 

Russian, 209-210 

School, 210 

Scotch, 210 

Scotch shortbread, 210-211 

Spice, 211 
Cake surprises, 225 
Candied sweet potatoes, 127-128 
Candy: Buttermilk, 276 

Butterscotch, 276 

Chocolate chips, 277 

Chocolate covering for, 277 

Chocolate nut drops, 278 

Chocolate peppermint, ginger, or 
dates, 278 

Everton, 278-270 



Candy : Fondants for, 279, 283 

Fruit and nut squares, 279-280 

Ginger cream, 280 

Honey fruit, 280 

Honey nut fudge, 280-281 

Lemon taffy, 281 

Marshmallows, 281 

Molasses caramels. 281-282 

Nut and raisin fudge, 282-283 

Nut i>enuche. 282 

Peanut butter. 283 

Peanut taffy, 283-284 

Peppermintrmilk drops, 284 

Popcorn, 284 

Raisin, 284-285 

Squash or Pumpkin, 285-286 

Trench fudge. 286 

Turkish delight, 286 
Candy-making, Directions for, 275- 

276 
Canned apples, cold pack method, 
291 

com soup, 71 

fish, 295 

green or red peppers, 295-296 

salmon and tomatoes, 83 
Canning, Directions for, 287-288 
Caper sauce, 165 
Capillaire, 18 
Capon, Roast, 118-119 
Caramel, 258 

frosting. 201 
Carbohydrates, 253 
Carrot and rice croquettes, 256 

marmalade, 291-292 

salad, 141 
Carrots k la Flamande, 128 

Braised, 128 
Catchup, Tomato. 300 
Cauliflower and Brussels sprouts 
salad. 141 

Boiled, 126 

Fried. 129 
Celery and cheese salad, 141 

and oysters, 244 

sauce, 110 

Scalloped, 132 
Cereal croquettes, 46-^7 

ice cream, 176 

Mixed breakfast, 50 

mush, 47 

with dates, 47 



334 



INDEX 



Cereals, How to cook, 43-44 
Chafing dish. How to use. 223-224 
Cheese and olive sandwiches, 218 

and peanut butter sandwiches, 
218 

and potato puffs, 244 

and potato savory, 244-245 

and toniato savory, 256 

and vermicelli patties, 257 

custard, 245 

cutlets, 303 

olive and nut sandwiches, 219 

omelet, 60 

Potted, 309 

toast, 214 
Cherry dumplings, 154 

salad, 143 

shrub, 18 

tartlets, 192 
Chess cake, 202 
Chestnut custard, 257-258 

fritters, 257 
Chestnuts, Roast (for goose), 116 
Chicken k la Creole, 225 

Baked, 110 

broth, 269 

CoQuilles of, 236 

for diabetics. Cream of. 269-270 

fricassfie, 114 

in bread patties. Creamed, 236 

pastry, 246 

pie. 112 

piUu, 112-113 
Chiffonade dressing, 148 
Chili sauce, 296 
Choca, 18 
Chocolate cake, 202 

chips, 277 

covering, 277 

Delicious, 21 

frosting, 211 

Hot, 23 

ice cream, 176 

icing, 203 

nut drops, 278 

peppermints, ginger, or dates, 278 

pie, 192 

pudding. 154 

sauce, 165 
Chops, Baked pork, 94 
Chouz pastry, 186 
Chowder, Com, 72 



Chowder, Fish, 73 
Chutney dressing, 148 
Cider cup, 19 
Clear gravy, 172 

soups, 66 

with rice. 71-72 
Cocoa, 19 

gems, 33 

muffins, 32 
Cocoanut birthday cake, 203 
Cod, How to choose, 2 

Curried, 83 

sounds, 226 

tongues with tomato sauoe, 225- 
226 
Codfish balls, 250 

Creamed, 22^227 

salad, 142 
Coffee, 19-20 

Iced, 20 
Coffee frosting, 205-206 

mousse, 176 
Cold broiled tomatoes, 222 

meat patties, 234-235 

salad, 142 
Conserve, Tomato, 300-301 
Con8omm6, 67 

Cooked meat en casserole, 235 
Coquilles of chicken, 236 
Com bread, 33 

chowder, 72 

fritters, 226 

omelet, 61 

toast, 214 

To dry, 300 
Com meal doughnuts, 33-34 

rolls, 34 
Cornish pasties, 245 
Cornstarch pastry, 187 
Cosmopolitan soup, 68 
Cottage cheese, How to make and 
use, 259 

sandwiches, 260 
Cottage pie, 235-236 
Coimtry porridge. 48 
Crab flakes. Creamed, 227 

toast, 215 
Crabs, How to choose, 2 
Cracked wheat, 48 
Cranberry frapp6, 177 

pie, 193 

sauce, 165-166 



^^ 



INDEX 



335 



Cream as food, 313 

cinnamon pie, 103 

nectar, 20 

of chicken, for diabetics, 26&-270 

of leek soup, 72 

pastry, 187 

puffs, 182 

sauce, 270 

soups, 68 
Creamed chicken in bread patties, 
236 

codfish, 226-227 

crab flakes, 227 
Croquettes, Carrot and rice, 256 

Cereal, 46 

Egg, 56 

Meat and turnip, 239 

Nut, 306 

Shrimp, 188 

Sweet potato and nut, 263 
Crotktons for soup, 317 
Crown roast of lamb, 07-98 
Crumb pie, 193 
Cucumber relish, 296-297 

sauce, 166 
Cup cakes, 204 
Currant tartlets lOa-194 
Curried cod, 83 

meat, 236 

vegetables, 258 
Custard, Apple, 266 

Apricot, 224 

Cheese, 245 

Chestnut, 257-258 

filling, 203-204 

sauce, 166 

spice cake, 203 

Steamed, 273-274 

tartlets, 194 
Cutlets, Beef and potato, 233- 
234 

Cheese, 303 

Marinaded, 101-102 

Venison, 121-122 

Dates, Stuftbd, 285 
Deviled bananas, 227 

ham and egg sandwiches, 219 

kidneys, 246 

oysters, 83 
Digestion of meats. Time required 
for, 94 



Doughnuts, Com meal, 33-34 
Dressing, Buttermilk, 147 

Chiffonade, 148 

Chutney, 148 

French. 147-148 

Italian, 148 

Mayonnaise, 148-149 

Roquefort, 148 

Russian, 149 

Salad. 140, 149-150 

Sour cream, 147 
Dried pea kedgeree, 258-259 

peaches or apples, 292 
'Drying fruits and vegetables, 288 
Duck, Salmi of, 121 

with turnips, 113-114 
Ducks, How to choose, 6 
Dumplings (for soup), 69 

Cherry, 154 

Norfolk, 306 

Raisin, 309 

Suet, 310 
Dutch stew, 98 

Eclairs, 186 

Economical chocolate cake, 204 

gingerbread, 205 
Eels, How to choose, 2 
Egg and cabbage salad, 142 

sauce (for fish), 88 

toast, 215 
Eggless and milkless gingerbread, 

205-206 
Eggless, milkless, and butterless 

cake, 206 
Eggplant, Broiled, 127 

Stuffed, 134-135 
Eggs: Alpine, 54 

k la Creole, 55 

k la Frankford, 56 

Charlotte, 55 

croquettes, 56 

Griddled, 56^7 

Indian, 57 

in nests, 56 

Poached, in milk, 57 

Scrambled, with tomatoes, 57-58 

Stanley, 58^9 

Steamed, 58 

Tomato, 59 
Eggs, Composition of, 63 

Cooking of, 53 



^ 



336 



INDEX 



£gg8. How to test, 8 

for breakfast or luncheon, 313  
Elderberry and apple jelly, 292- 

293 
Emergency soup, 72-73 
Endive, Stewed, 134 
English pork cake, 206 
Evaporated milk jelly, 270 
Everton candy, 27^-279 
Everyday puff pastry, 187 
Exchange sandwiches, 219 

Fairt corn bread, 34 

Farina cakes with cheese, 246-247 

flummery, 49 

mush, 49 
Fat, To clarify. 313 
Fats, 253 
Filling. Custard, 203-204 

for layer cake, 207 

Mocha, 208 
Finnan haddie, Baked, 243 

toast, 217 
First stock. 65 
Fish h, la Reine. 227 

Baked, 267 

Boiled, with sauce, 82 

cakes, 85 

Canned, 295 

chowder. 73 

Classes of, 81 

Filleted, baked in batter, 84 

How to choose, 1-3, 81 

Kedgeree of, 86-87 

kromeskies, 85 

Planked, 87 

pudding. 86 

rarebit. 247 

soup. 73 

Steamed, 273 

Steamed salt, 241-242 

Stewed. 272-273 

stock, 65 

Sweet and sour, 71 

What to serve with boiled, 318 
Flaky pastry, 188 
Flounders, Stuffed. 89 

To bake. 89 

To fillet, 84 
Flour, How to test, 8, 28 

Self-raising, 310 
Foamy sauce, 166-167 



Fondant, 279 

Lemon, 283 

Orange, 283 
Food, Amount required, 254-255 

necessities, 253-254 
For creamy fudge, 314 
Frapp6, 174 

Caf6. 176 

Cranberry, 177 

Tea, 182 
French dressing, 147-148 

pancakes, 303-304 
Fresh herring pie, 247 
Frica886e of chicken, 114 

of guinea fowl, 114-115 

of salmon. 90 
Fried beans, 228 

cauliflower, 129 

gnoochi, 304 

hominy, 45 

tomatoes, 228 
Fritters, Chestnut, 257 

Com, 226 

Meat. 239-240 
Frosting, Boiled. 207 

Boiled maple, 204 

Caramel. 201 

Chocolate, 203 
Frosen banana custard, 177 

rice pudding, 177 
Fruit and nut squares, 279-280 

cake without eggs, 206-207 

drink. 21 

sandwiches, 220 

sherbet, 178 

soups, 68 
Fruits, Drying, 288 

for salads, 139 
Frumenty. 49 
Frying. Methods of, 14-16 

Time-table for, 328 
Frying bacon or ham, 314 
Fudge. Honey nut, 280-281 

Nut and raisin, 282-283 

To make creamy, 314 

Trench, 286 

GaMB. How TO PRBPABE, 109 

Qualities of, 107 

stock, 65 
Geese, How to choose, 6 
Gems, Buckwheat, 32 



■N.' 



INDBX 



337 



Gemst Cocoa, 33 

Whole wheat, 41 
Giiigerade, 22 
Ginger beer, 21 

powder, 22 
Gingerbread, Economical, 205 

EgglesB and milUefls, 205-206 

Somerset, 212 

Suffrage, 212 
Ginger cream candy, 280 

pancakes, 35 

pudding with vanilla sauce, 155 

wine, 22 
Glace (stock), 66 

for coating tongues, ham, etc., 312 
Gnocchi, Fried, 304 
Golden buck, 228 

marmalade, 293 
Goose, Roast, 120 

with chestnuts, 115 
Goulash, Hungarian, 99 
Graham biscuits, 35-36 

wafers, 36 
Grapeade, 23 
Grape juice water ice, 178 
Grated pineapple pie, 194 
Gravy, Brown, 172 

Clear, 172 

Thickened, 171-172 

Tomato, 172 
Green tomato mincemeat, 304 
Green vegetables, How to cook, 

123-124 
Greens, Savory, 132 
Griddleoakes, Bread, 31 

Rye, 38 
Griddled eggs, 56-^57 
Grilled venison cutlets, 121-122 
Grilling, Bee Broiling 
Guinea chicken. Roast, 120 
Guinea fowl, Broiled, 120-121 

Fricas86e of, 114-115 

Haddock 1 la CbAmb, 86 

and tomatoes, 248 
Halibut, How to choose, 2 
Ham and almond sandwiches, 220 
Ham, baked, 99 

baked in pastry, 98 

breakfast loaf, 248 

How to choose, 4-^ 

omelet, 61 



Ham, patties and eggs, 248 

Scalloped, 242 
Hard sauce, 167 
Hares, How to choose, 7 

Jugged, 114 
Hare haricot, 115-116 
Haricot, Hare, 115-116 

Mutton, 237 
Hash, Pepper, 297 
Hashed meat, 237 
Health bread, 36 
Herring roe toast, 215 
Herrings, Baked, 82 

How to choose, 2 
Honey beer, 23 

fruit candy, 280 

nut fudge, 280-281 
Hopping John, 305 
Horse-radish sauce, 168 
Household stock, 65 
How to bake cake, 199-200 
How to choose fish, 1-3, 81 

meat, 3-5 

poultiy and game, 5-7 

vegetables, 7-8 
How to cook cereal, 43-44 

vegetables, 123-124 
How to dress poultry and game, 108 
How to judge butter, 8 

lard, 9 

milk, 9 

poultry and game, 106 
How to make cottage cheese, 259 

salads, 138-139 

sandwiches, 213 

soups, 66 

stock, 64-66, 66 

tough meat tender, 314-315 
How to mix cakes, 198-199 

pastry. 183-186 
How to mold ices, 175 
How to prepare poultry and game, 
108-109 

water ice, 174 
How to test eggs, 8 

flour, 8, 28 
How to use a chafing dish, 223-224 
Hungarian goulash, 99 
Hygienic mincemeat, 305 

ICS CBBAM, ApPLS, 175 

Brown bread, 175 



338 



INDEX 



loe eream. Cereal, 170 

Chocolate, 176 

Lemon, 178 

Maple nut, 179 

Orange, 179 

Oswego, 180 

Peach, 180 

Peppermint stick. 180-181 

Plimi, 181 

Raspberry junket, 181 

VaniUa, 182 

M0 also under Frapp6, Mousse, 
Parfait, Sherbet, Water Ices 
Ices, Kinds of, 174-175 

How to mold, 176 
Icings, see Frosting 
Indian eggs, 57 

pudding (old-fashioned), 156-157 
Invalid soup, 270-271 
Irish moss pudding, 271 

stew, 99-100 
Italian dressing, 148 

sauce, 168 

Jam, Banana and pbab, 289 

Black currant, 290-291 

Sugarless, 294 
Jellied cranberries, 166 
Jelly, Barberry, 289-290 

Elderberry and apple, 292-293 

Evaporated milk, 270 

Making of, 287 

Sponge, 156 

Strawberry jam, 273 
Jenny lind salad, 143 
Jerusalem artichoke pudding, 260 
Jugged hare, 116 

Kabajb, 100 

Kedgeree, Dried pea, 258-259 

of fish, 86-87 
Kidney toast, 215-216 
Kidneys, Deviled, 246 

How to choose, 5 
Kohl-rabi, 129 
Kol Dohner, 100 
Koumiss, 24 

Lamb, Cbown boabt of, 97-98 

en casserole, 101 

How to choose, 4 

with peppers and potatoes, 238 
Lamb's head, boUed, 95-96 



Lard, How to judge, 9 
Layer cake with filling, 207 
Leeks, Boiled, 126-127 
Lemonade, 24 

Pineapple, 26 

powder, 315 
Lemon butter, 305 

fondant, 283 

ice cream, 178 

sauce, 169 

sirup, 24 

taffy, 281 

tarts, 194-195 
Lemons, To keep, 315 
Lentil rolls. 260 

soup, 75-76 
Lentils, Savory, 262 
Liberty bread, 36 
liightning mocha cake, 208 
Livers, How to choose, 5 
Loaf, Ham breakfast, 248 

Savory nut, 262 
Lobster sandwiches, 220 

sauce, 167-168 
Lobsters, How to choose, 2 

Stewed, 90 
Loin of veal roasted, 101 
Luncheon cakes, 208 

Magaboni, chebbb, and tomatobb, 
228-229 

ragoiit, 238 

with cheese, 261 
Mackerel, How to choose, 2 

au gratin, 87 

Soused, 89 
Maple mousse, 178-179 

nut ice cream, 179 
Marinaded cutlets. 101-102 
Marmalade, Apple and oranse, 
288-289 

Carrot, 291 

Golden, 293 

Orange, 293, 316 

Orange and pineapple, 293 

Rhubarb, 294 

sauce, 168 

Three-fruit, 294-295 

Tomato, 295 
Marrow bones, 249 
Marshmallow fruit salad, 143 
MarshmallowB, 281 




^ 



INBBX 



339 



Mashed turnips, 137 
Mayonnaise dressing, 148-^149 
Measures, 329-330 
Meat and rice balls, 238 

and spaghetti au gratin, 238-239 

and turnip croquettes, 239 

chartreuse, 239 

cooked en casserole, 235 

Curried, 236 

fritters, 239-240 

Hashed, 237 

How to make tough, tender, 314- 
315 

Potted cooked, 240-241 

Reheated cold, 233 

souffle, 240 

with onion and hard-cooked 
eggs, 240 
Meats, Extractives in, 93 

Composition of, 93 

Digestion of, 94 

How to choose, 3-5 

What to serve with, 318-320 
Melted butter sauce (sweet), 171 
Menus, 321-^25 
Milk, How to judge, 9 

sherbet, 179 
Minced steak pie, 249 
Mincemeat, Green tomato, 304 

Hygienic, 305 
Mint sauce, 169 
Mixed breakfast cereal, 50 
Mixed pickle, 297 
Mocha filling, 208 
Molasses caramels, 281-282 

pie, 195 

sauce, 169 
Mountain dew pudding, 156 
Mousse, 175 

Coffee, 176 

Maple, 178-179 
Muffins, Bran, 30 

Cocoa, 32 
Mush, Cereal, 47 

Com meal, 47 

Farina, 49 

Rye, 52 
Mushrooms with eggs, 229 
Mussels k la Mariniftre, 229 
Mustard sauce, 169-170 
Mutton, Boiled neck or shoulder of, 
96 



Mutton broth, 76 
haricot, 237 

hot pot with dumpling, 102 
How to choose, 3-4 
Shoulder of, 104 

NOODLSB WITH CHEESE, 249-250 

Norfolk dumplings, 306 
Nourishing pudding, 271 
Nut and raisin brown bread, 39 
Nut and raisin fudge, 28^283 , 
Nutl^read, 39 

croquettes, 306 

loaf, 262 

penuche, 282 

sandwiches, 220-221 

stuffing, 307 

Oatmeal aivd apple pudding, 261 
Oatmeal and cheese, 50 

porridge, 50 
Oatmeal and cocoa cooler, 26 

bread, 37 

pudding, 156 
Okra with corn and tomatoes, 261 
Old-fashioned dried apple cake, 208 
Olives, Beef, 95 
Omelet, Asparagus, 59 

Baked sweet, 59-60 

Bread crumb, 60 

Cheese, 60 

Com, 61 

Ham, 61 

Picnic, 62-63 

Plain, 62 

Salmon, 62-63 

Savory, 63 

souffl6, 61 

Spinach, 63 
Omelets, Making of, 54 

Kinds of, 54 
Onion and sage stuffing, 307 

pastry, 246 

soup, 76 
Onions, Stuffed, 135 
Orange and date salad, 144 

and pineapple marmalade, 293 

fondant, 283 

ice cream, 179 

marmalade, 293, 316 

parfait, 17&-180 

pudding, 154 

salad, 144 



340 



INDBX 



Orgeat water, 26 
Oswego ice cream, 180 
Oyster and celery aalad, 144 

ehortoake, 307-308 

soup, 76 

stuffing, 308 
Oyster plant, see Salsify, 131 
Oysters k la Francesca, 22^230 

How to choose, 3 

Deyiled, 83 

Scalloped, 01 
Ox tail with vegetables, 102-103 

Pancakbs, Fbench, 303-304 

Ginger, 35 

Savory, 35 

without eggs, 35 
Parfait, Orange, 179-180 
Parsnip soup, 77 
Parsnips, Boiled, 130 
Partridges, Broiled, 111 
Pasties, Apple, 246 

Bacon and potato, 246 

Chicken, 246 

Cornish, 245 

Onion, 246 
Pastry : Choux, 186 

Cornstarch, 187 

Cream, 187 

Everyday puff, 187 

Flaky, 188 

Plain, 188 

Potato, 189 

Rich short crust, 189 

Short, 189 

Suet, 190 

Whole wheat puff, 190-191 
Pastry, Boiled, 185 

Heat for cooking, 184-185 

How to mix, 183-186 

Kinds of, 183 

To freshen, 315 
Patties, Cheese and vermicelli, 257 

Cold meat, 234-235 
Pea and sardine salad, 144 
Pea soup, 77 
Peas k Maitre d'H6tel, 130 

To dry, 292 
Peach ice cream, 180 

pie, 195 

shortcake (sliced), 160 
Peaches, Dried, 292 



Peanut butter candy. 283 
Peanut pudding. Baked, 255 

taffy, 283-284 
Peel, To soften hard candied, 316 
Penuche, Nut, 282 
Pepper hash, 297 

nut and cheese salad, 145 
Peppers, Canned green or red, 296- 
296 

Stuffed, 135-136 
Peppermint milk drops, 284 

stick ice oream, 180 
Perfection pie, 195 
Persinmion pudding, 157 
Pickled brains, 298 

green tomatoes, 298 

pumpkin, 298 

tongues, 298 
Pickle. Mixed, 297 
Pickles, Directions for making, 

Sweet cucumber, 299 
Picnic omelet, 62 
Pies : Bean, 256 

Chicken, 112 

Chocolate, 192 

Cottage, 235-236 

Cranberry, 193 

Cream cinnamon, 193 

Crumb, 193 

Fresh herring, 247 

Grated pineapple, 194 

Minced steak, 249 

Molasses, 195 

Peach, 195 

Perfection, 195 

Potato and oyster, 300 

Rabbit, 118 

Raisin, 196 

Raisin and apple, 196 

Rhubarb, 196-197 

Sour cream, 197 

Strawberry custard, 107 

Tyler, 197 

Vegetable, 264 
Pigeons, How to choose, 7 

en casserole, 116 

with spaghetti, 117 
Pigs (sucking). Roasted, 106 
Pigs' feet with sauce, 103 
PiUu, Chicken, 112-113 
Pineapple lemonade, 26 

salad, 145 



kN 



INDBX 



341 



Pineapple aherbet, 181 

triflest 156 
Piquante aauoe, 170 
Flanked fish, 87 

pastry, 188 
Plum ioe cieam, 181 

pudding, 167 
Poached eggfi in milk, 67 
Pork chops, Baked, 94 
Pork, How to choose, 4 
Porridge, Country, 48 

cakes, 61 

Oatmeal, 60 

Rolled Oats, 61 
Popcorn, 276 

candy, 284 
Potato, 145-146 

and cauliflower salad, 146 

and oyster pie, 308 

parings, 316 

pastry, 189 

souffl6, 131-132 

soup, 77 
Potatoes and turnips, 131 

au gratin, 131 

Savory, 261-262 

Sweet, candied, 127-128 
sugared, 128 
Potted beans, 261-262 

cheese, 309 

cooked meat, 240-241 

salmon, 241 
Poultry and Game, How to choose, 
6-7 

How to dress, 108 

How to judge, 106 

How to prepare, 106 
Poultry or game. Barbecue of, 224 
Prawns, How to choose, 2 
Premier cake, 209 
Preserved strawberries, 293-294 
Preserving, Fruits for, 287 

Utensils for, 287 
Proteids, 263. 264-266 
Prune roll, 168 

salad, 146 

water, 26 

whip, 168 
Puddings : Apple custard, 162 

Apple roll and sauce, 152-163 

Baked apple and rice, 163 

Baked marrow, 244 



Puddings: Baked peanut, 266 

Baked rice, 163-164 

Cherry dumplings* 164 

Chocolate, 162 

Dandy orange, 164-166 

Fish, 86 

Ginger, with vanilla sauce, 165 

Indian (old-fashioned), 156-157 

Irish moss, 155, 271 

Jelly sponge, 156 

Jerusalem artichoke, 260 

Mountain dew, 156 

Nourishing, 271 

Oatmeal, 156 

Oatmeal and apple, 261 

Persimmon, 157 

Pineapple trifles, 156 

Plum, 157 

Prune roll, 168 

Prune whip, 158 

Rhubarb shortcake, 168 

Rice and date, 159 

Rolled oats, 159 

Savory bread, 309 

Sliced peach shortcake, 160 

Spaghetti and fruit, 273 

Strawberry ring, 160 

Strawberry shortcake, 159-160 

Steamed meat, 161-162 

Steamed shortcake, 160-101 

Wildwood, 161 
Puddings, Cooking of, 151-152 

Ingredients for, 151 
Pulled bread, 39 
Pumpkin, Pickled, 298 
Punch, Tea, 27 
Pur€e, 67 

Bean, with grated cheese, 69 

Tomato, 118 

Quick coffbb cake, 209 

Rabbit bn gasserolb, 117 

pie, 118 

Stewed, 121 

with rice, 118 
Rabbits, How to choose, 7 
Rago<it, Macaroni, 238 
Raisin and apple pie, 196 

bread, 37 

candy, 284-285 

dumplings, 309 



342 



INDEX 



Raisin pie, 196 

scones, 40 

with oil, 312 
Rarobit, Fish, 247 

Welsh, 231-232 
Raspberry junket ice cream, 181 

vinegar, 27 
Raw beef sandwiches, 271-272 
Red cabbage and celery salad, 146 
Rhubarb beverage, 17 

marmalade, 294 

pie, 196-197 

relish, 299 

shortcake, 158 
Rice and date pudding, 159 

Boiled, 45-46 

soup, 78 

Spcuoish, 310 

water, 272 
Rich short crust pastry, 189 
Roast capon with Piquante stuflSng, 
118-119 

chicken with oyster stuflSng, 119 

goose, 120 

guinea chicken, 120 

Vegetarian, 264 
Roasted beef, Virginia style, 103- 

104 
Roasting, Process of, 10-11 
Roes, Shad, 230 
Rolled oats porridge, 51 

pudding, 159 

sandwiches, 221 
Rolls, Ck>rn meal, 34 

Lentil, 260 
Root vegetables, 123 

How to cook, 123-124 
Roquefort dressing, 148 
Rose sauce, 170 
Russian cake, 209-210 

dressing, 149 
Rye bread, 40 

griddlecakes, 38 

meal mush, 52 

Saoo in obavt, 272 

Salad dressing, 140, 149-160 

Salad, Banana, 139 

Beet and cabbage, 140 

Bungalow, 140 

Cabbage, apple and nut, 140-141 

Carrot, 141 



I Salad, Cauliflower and BnmselB 
sprouts, 141 

Celery and cheese, 141 

Codfish, 142 

Cold meat, 142 

Egg and cabbage, 142 

Individual cherry, 143 

Jenny land, 143 

Marshmallow fruit, 143-144 

Orange, 142 

Orange and date, 144 

Oyster and celery, 144 

Peas and sardine, 144 

Pepper, nut, and cfaeedB, 145 

Pineapple, 145 

Potato and cauliflower, 145 

Potato, 14^146 

Prune, 146 

Red cabbage and celery, 146 

Tuna fish, 146 

Winter, 147 
Salads, Fruits for, 139 

How to make, 138-139 
Sahni of duck. 121 
Salmon, Baked, 82 

Canned, and tomatoes, 83 

fricassee, 90 

How to choose, 2 

omelet, 62-63 

Potted. 241 

roll, with egg sauce, 87 
Salsify, scalloped, 133 
Salts and vegetable acids, 253 
Sandwiches, How to make, 213 
Sandwiches : Baked bean, 217 

Beef and egg, 218 

Cheese and olive, 218 

Cheese and peanut butter, 218 

Cheese, olive, and nut, 219 

Cottage cheese, 260 

Deviled ham and egg, 219 

Exchange, 219 

Fruit, 220 

Ham and almond, 220 

Lobster, 220 

Nut, 220-221 

Raw beef, 271-272 

RoUed, 221 

Rolled celery, 221 

Sausage and pickle, 221 

Sweet chocolate, 221 

Tomato, 222 



^ 



IMDBX 



343 



Sardines with duli sauoe, 230 

with eauoe, 250 
SauoM, Uses of, 163 

Kinds of. 163-164 
Sauoes: Apple, 164 

Broad, 111, 164 

Brown, 164-165 

Caper, 166 

Celery, 110 

Chocolate, 165 

Cranberry, 165 

Cranberries Qellied), 166 

Cream, 270 

Cucumber, 166 

Custard, 166 

Egg, 88 

Foamy, 166-167 

for apple rolls, 153 

Fresh berry, 167 

Qra^y, $ee under Gravy 

Hard, 167 

Horse-radish, 168 

Italian, 168 

Lemon, 169 

Lobster, 167-168 

Marmalade, 168 

Mint, 169 

Molasses, 169 

Mustard, 169 

Piquante, 170 

Rose, 170 

Savory jelly, 170 

Sour cream, 171 

Sweet melted butter, 171 

Tomato, 173 

White, 173 
Sausage and pickle sandwiches, 221 

loaf with brown sauoe, 251 

in potatoes, 251 
Saut6ing, Process of, 16 
Savoiy bread pudding, 309-810 

Cheese and tomato, 256 

greens, 132 

jeUy sauce, 170-171 

lentils, 262 

nut loaf, 262 

omelet, 63 

pancakes, 35 

peppers with onion, 230 

potatoes, 251-252 
Scalloped oeleiy, 132 

salsify or oyster plant, 133-184 



Scalloped ham, 242 

oysters, 91 
Scallops on skewers, 88 
School cake, 210 
Scones, Raisin, 40 

Tea, 41 
Scotch cakes, 210 

shortbread, 210-211 
Scrambled eggs with tomatoes, 57-58 
Second stock, 65 
Self-raising flour, 310 
Shad roes, 230 
Sherbet, 174, 175 

Fruit, 178 

Biilk, 179 

Pinei4>ple, 181 

Strawbeny, 182 
Shortbread, Scotch, 210-211 
Shortcake, Oyster, 307-308 

Peach, 160 

Rhubarb, 158 

Steamed, 160-161 

Strawberry, 159-160 
Short pastry, 189 
Shoulder of mutton, 104 
Shrimp croquettes, 88-89 
Shrimps, How to choose, 2 

Food value of, 89 
Skate, How to choose, 2 
Smelts, Baked, 267 

How to choose, 2 

Stuffed, 90 
Sommerset gingerbread, 212 
Souffl6, Bread, 256 

Meat, 240 

Omelet, 61 

Potato. 131-132 

Tuna fish, 91-92 
Soup, Apricot, 68 

Beef, with savory dumpling, 69 

Black bean, 70 

Cabbage, 71 

Canned com, 71 

Clear, with rice, 71-72 

Cream of leek, 72 

Emergency, 72-73 

Fish, 73 

Giblet, 74 

InvaUd, 270-271 

LentU, 75-76 

Maigre, 78-79 

Onion, 76 



r 



344 



INDEX 



SouD, Oyster, 76-77 

Pannip, 77 

Fte, 77 

Potato, 77-78 

Rioe. 78 

St. GermBin, 78 

Strawberry, 80 

Tomato, 79 

Vegetable, 70 
Soupe, How to make, 66 

Kinds of, 66-68 
Soupe : Clear, 66 
Broths, 67 
Bouillon, 67 
Consomm^, 67 

Thick, 67 
Bisques, 67 
Cream, 68 
Cosmopolitan, 68 
I^ruit.68 
Purees, 67 
Sour cream dreesins, 147 

pie, 197 

aauoe, 171 

waffles. 38 
Soused mackerel, 89 
Southern waffles, 38 
G^Mtghetti and fruit pudding, 273 
Spanish rioe, 310 
Spioe bag. To make, 316 
Spioe cake, 211 
Spiced beef, 104-105 
Spinach, Dressed, 129 

omelet, 63 

timbale, 133-184 
Split peas and onions, 262-268 
Squash, Baked, 136 

or pumpkin candy, 285 

pul!, 136 
Stanley eggs, 58 
Steak, Braised, 96-07 
Steamed custard, 273-274 

eggs, 58 

fish. 273 

meat pudding, 161-162 

salt fish mold, 241-242 

shortcake. 160-161 
Steaming, Method of, 14 
Stew, Boston, 97 

Dutch, 98 

Irish, 99-100 
Stewed endiye, 134 



Stewed fish. 272-273 

lobster. 90 

rabbit, 121 
Stewing, Methods of, 16 
Stews, To thicken. 316 
St. Qezmain soup, 78 
Stock, Bone, 70-71 

Brown, 74 

How to make, 64-65, 66 

Bands of. 65-^66 

To remove fat from. 75 

White, 75 
Strawberries, Preserved, 293-294 
Strawbony custard pie, 197 

jam jelly, 273 

ring, 160 

sherbet, 182 

shortcake, 159-160 

soup, 80 
Stuffed and roasted beef heart, 94-95 
Stu£Fed dates, 285 

eggplant, 134-135 

flounders, 89 

Qlobe artichokes, 132-133 

onions. 135 

peppers. 135-136 

smelts. 90 

tomatoes. 136 
Stuffing. Nut, 307 

Onion and sage, 307 

Oyster, 808 
Succotash, 263 
Sucking pig roasted, 105 
Suet, How to chooee. 5 

dumplings, 310 

pastry, 190 
Suffrage gingerbread, 212 
Sugared sweet potatoes, 128 
Sugarless jam, 294 
Sweet and sour fish, 91 
Sweetbreads in gravy, 106 
Sweet chocolate sandwiches, 221 
Sweet cucumber pickles, 299 
Sweet potato and nut croquettee, 

263 
Sweet potatoes and marshmallows, 
311 

Tabtlbts, Bambubt, 191-192 
Cherry, 192 
Currant, 193-194 
Custard, 194 



INDBX 



345 



Tarts, Lemon, lM-105 
Tea, 2&>26 
Beef, 208 
frapp6, 182 
punch, 27 
■oonee, 41 
Thickened gravy, 171-172 
Three-fruit maroialade, 294-205 
Timbale, Spinach, 133-134 
Time-taUe for baking, 326-327 

for boiling, 327 

for l»oiling, 327-^328 

for frying, 328 
Toast, Baked French, 213-214 

Cheese, 214 

Com, 214 

Crab, 215 

Egg, 215 

Finnan haddie, 217 

Herring roe, 215 

Kidney. 215-216 

Tomato and cheese, 216 

Tongue, 216 

Veal, 216 
To clarify fat, 313 
To cover a pudding with paper, 313 
To cure tongues, 299-300 
To dry com, 300 

peas, 292 
To freshen pastry, 315 
To keep lemons, 315 
To make a spice bag, 316 

brsad crumbs, 313 

oroiitons for soup, 317 

tou^ meat tender, 314-315 
Tomato and cheese toast, 216 

catchup, 300 

conserve, 300-^1 

eggs, 59 

gravy, 172 

hotpot, 311 

marmalade, 295 

pur6e, 118 

sandwiches, 222 

sauce, 173 

sauce and eggs, 231 

soup, 79 

wigde, 231 
Tomatoes and BrusselB sprouts, 
136-137 

Cold broiled, 222 

Fried, 228 



Tomatoes, Pickled green, 298 

Stuffed, 136 

with cheese, 252 
Tongue en casserole, 106 

Pickled, 298-299 

toast, 216 

To cure, 299-300 

with tomato sauce. Cod, 225- 
226 
To remove smell of onions, 315 
To soften hard candied peel, 316 
To thicken stews, 316 
Trench fudge, 286 
Tripe and oysters, 231 

en casserole, 107 

Parisienne style, 252 
Trout, How to choose, 2 
Tuna ilsh salad, 146 

souffl6, 91-92 
Turkey, Boiled, 110 

Braised, 111 
Turkeys, How to choose, 6-7 
Turkish delight, 286 
Turnips, Mashed, 137 
Tyler pie, 197-198 

Vamlla icb cbmam, 182 

sandwiches, 182 

sponge dainties, 274 
Veal, How to choose, 3 

Loin of, roasted, 101 

toast, 216 
Vegetable diet, 254 

pie, 264 

soup, 79 

stock, 65 
Vegetables, Classes of, 128 

Curried, 258 

Drying, 288 

How to choose, 7-8 

How to cook, 123-124' 

What to serve with, 320 
Vegetarian roast, 264 
Venison, How to choose, 5 

outlets, grilled, 121-122 
Vermicelli with tomato sauce, 265 
Virginia com brsad, 42 

Wafbbs, Graham, 36 
Waffles, Sour cream, 38 
Southern, 38 



346 



INDEX 



Water, 253 

Barley, 267-268 
to serve with fruit, 268 

lUoe, 272 
Water ioe. How to prepare, 174 

Grape juioe, 178 
Weights, 329-330 
Welsh Raiebit. 231-232 
What to serve with boiled fish, 318 

with meats, 318-^20 



What to serve with vegetables* 

320 
Wheat bread, 41 
White sauoe, 173 

Btook, 65 
Whole wheat gems, 41-42 

pufP paste, 190-191 
Why batter is beaten, 314 
Wildwood pudding, 161 
Winter salad, 147 



CAROLINE KING'S COOK BOOK 



] 



By CAROLINE B. KING 

MRS. KING has approached the sdence of cookery from 
a new angle. She has gone to the very root of the 
principles of cookery, and presented them in a way 
entirely noveL 

Mrs. King's intention has been to supply a s^tematic 
knowledge of how foods are prepared for the table, instead of 
an analysis of food values or a list of recipes. From this book 
the housewife with little experience will learn the essenrial 
rudiments of ccx>kery, and comprehend how to build upon a 
basic formula so that any dish, however elaborate it may 
sound, or any combination of food materials may be under- 
taken confidently and successfully. 

lUusirated. $1.50 net. 



THE BOSTON COOKING-SCHOOL 

COOK BOOK 



By FANNIE MERRTTT FARMER 

CONTAINS 2,117 thoroughly tested recipes, from the 
simple and economical to the elaborate and expensive. 
It contains the classification and correct proportions 
of food, tables of measurement and weights, time-table for 
cooking, menus and much information not to be found else- 
where. 

"The best cook book on the market." — WomatCs Wprld^ 
New York. 

"The recipes are compounded with a knowledge of the 
science of cooking." — The Outlook^ New York. 

"The most complete book for general knowledjge to the ex- 
perienced as well as the inexperienced housewife." — Chicsgo 
Evening Post. 

130 illustrations. 648 pages. 92.00 net. 

little; brown & CO., Publishers, Boston 



PRACTICAL FOOD ECONOMY 



By ALICE GITCHELL KIRK 

IN WORDS that ftll» young or old, experienced or inex- 
perienced, may understand, a widely known lecturer on 
nome economics here presents practical truths on economy 
in foods, shows how to nave well-balanced meals and gives 
helpful suggestions for buying^ preparing and cooking with- 
out waste. Particular emphasis is laid on the value of various 
foods in relation to the body^ their purpose, and the quantities 
needed for the average family of four. Tne book answers the 
questions which women have asked Mrs. Kirk many times 
as she has lectured for the past eleven years before them. 

With iUustrmHons. $1.25 net. 



MARKETING AND HOUSEWORK 

MANUAL 



ByS. AGNES DONHAM 

Instmctor in Householcl Management^ Garland Sehool 

of HomemaHngy Boston 

THIS book deab with marketing, and contains sets of 
marketing charts for meat, fish, groceries, fruit and 
vegetables, with directions for the choice, purchase 
and care of common foodstuffs. Methods of planning meals 
are indicated, and there is a form for menu sheets for house- 
keepers who wish to keep their food records systematically. 

The ,book also gives brief rules for the care of the house, 
with directions for each process, and lists of necessary ma- 
terials and utensils. 

Anv woman wanting to run her house in an orderly, busi- 
nesslike way will find this book invaluable. 

f 1.50 Hit. 

LITTLE, BROWN & CO., Publishers, Boston 



^^ 



J.:- • f ■■■.•.•■:■ ^ V 



. .v.'-' 



.V/^ 






MMteiiiHiilr 



P 



8 



ilL. 

>032 




