
C®(0)lkninii 



ILLINOIS FARMERS' INSTITUTE 
Springfield 



CONSERVATION 

Today, Tomorrow and in ^'>. \\ 
Years to Come ' \ 



Learn the value and qualities of all 
foods and make everything of the best 
you can get, whatever Its price, and 
then, every day, prepare some palatable 
dish without waste. 

Long before the world war was upon us, Illi- 
nois women, through the Department of Household 
Science, have been studying the lessons which would 
enable them to feed their families to produce healthy 
bodies. Out of Illinois homes have gone the vast 
number of young men — perfect types of manhood — 
who stand in the front ranks of the Army. 

Illinois' mothers have given MEN and given 
them to be gone until the final day of VICTORY. 

While the soldiers are fighting for world peace, 
Illinois women are doing a mighty work in Food 
Production and the Red Cross. They will go "over 
the top" in providing food for Victory. 

Many leaflets have been printed that home- 
makers may be better prepared to meet the real 
needs in setting the daily food upon the tables of 
Illinois. 

Lest we forget a further obligation in food con- 
servation and to make the task of preparation an 
easy one, some choice recipes have been culled from 
official Government guides ; to these are added a 
collection of "Originals" which have been tried and 
are presented as being economical, nutritious, simple 
and good SUBSTITUTES. 

DEPARTMENT OF HOUSEHOLD SCIENCE, 
Illinois Farmers' Institute, 

By Mrs. H. A. McKeene, Secretary. 

Springfield, 1918. 



n. of D. 

-ff I 19,3 



While the war is on and our boys must fight 
We here at home, with all our might 

Should cook war dishes all the time. 
For that's our work behind the line. 



SOME FOOD QUESTIONS WITH ANSWERS. 

What is Conservalion? 

"The preservation of our natural resources for economical use, so 
as to secure the greatest good to the greatest number." 

Why is the homemaker asked to conserve food? 

Because upon her shoulders rests the responsibility of handling 
and planning it for the life of the family and by serving her family well 
she renders patriotic service to the Nation at this time. 

Why will food help win the war? 

Because the army and navy cannot fight without food and the 
people behind the lines cannot support the army without it. 

What is a substitute food? 

A food similar in food value to the one we wish to save. 
What are meat substitutes? 

Poultry, fish, sea food, milk, cheese, eggs, nuts, cereals and legumes. 
What are substitutes for wheat? 
Corn, oats, rice, white and sweet potatoes, barley. 
What are sugar substitutes? 

Honey, maple syrup, corn syrup, sorghum molasses. 
What are substitutes for butter and lard? 
Olive oil, corn oil, cottonseed oil, meat drippings. 
How can we eliminate waste? 

By being careful in buying, preparing, cooking, serving and using 
food. 

Millions of American homemakers have taken the pledge to follow 
directions, as circumstances demand, for war service in the home. We 
cannot show patriotism by cheering the soldiers as they march by, 
waving flags at a patriotic meeting, or standing at attention when 
"The Star Spangled Banner"' is played with no thought or responsi- 
bility in helping to win Victory. 

The homemaker who answers every call made upon her in doing 
what the Government asks, in keeping up the food line, is a soldier 
at home as much as son, husband or brother, "over there." 









.m^): 









MEATLESS MEATS 



WHY USE POULTRY? 

Poultry contains practically the same amount of nourishment 
pound for pound as beef, pork, or mutton. It cannot be shipped as 
well so will not be sent to our allies and soldiers. 

Eat poultry. Make soup from the bones and tiny scraps. Make 
the meat go farther by combining it with rice, hominy, or vegetables 
in scalloped dishes and stews. Try out the fat from poultry and use it 
instead of lard and butter for shortening. French cooks consider 
poultry fat as a real delicacy in cookery. 

BUYING. 

In selecting poultry see that the flesh is firm, that there is a fair 
amount of fat underneath the skin, that the skin is whole and of a 
clear yellow color, and that the odor is good. Chickens and fowls 
have certain characteristics which make them readily distinguishable. 
Chickens have soft feet, a flexible breast bone, many pin feathers, and 
little fat, while fowls have hard scaly feet, a rigid breast bone, and 
long hairs over the body. 

ROAST TURKEY. 

Dress, wash, stuff, and truss a turkey. Rub the entire surface with 
salt, sprinkle with pepper and flour. Place in a covered roaster in a 
hot oven. When the skin begins to brown reduce the heat and add a 
cup of hot water to the fat that has fried out in the pan. Baste every 
15 minutes with the liquid in the pan. During cooking turn the turkey 
often that it may brown evenly. If it browns too fast, cover with oiled 
paper and a damp cloth. Remove string and skewers before serving. 
A 9 or 10 pound turkey will roast in 3 hours. 

GRAVY. 

6 tablespoons turkey fat with 3 cups stock from giblets 

browned flour from roast IV2 teaspoon salt 
6 tablespoons rice flour 14 teaspoon pepper 

Brown the flour in the fat, add the stock gradually, season and 
boil five minutes. Strain. 

CHICKEN BAKED IN MILK. 

Roll a disjointed chicken in flour, brown quickly in greased skillet 
and put in casserole. Blend two tablespoons flour with fat In skillet, 
add slowly 3 cups milk and cook until slightly thickened. Pour over 
chicken. If milk does not come to top of chicken add more. Cook in 
oven BELOW the boiling point until tender. Salt when half cooked. 
Length of cooking depends upon age of fowl but any age will be made 
tender cooked in this way. 

CHICKEN STEWED IN MILK. 

Put disjointed fowl in stew kettle, cook for a few moments in water 
enough to make steam. Add milk and cook at low temperature until 
tender. When about half done add a little more milk thickened with 
flour and use care that the fowl does not stick to bottom of pan. When 
done there should be just enough gravy to serve over the platter, or 
about same as a pot roast. 

GOOSE SCALLOPED WITH HOMINY. 

2 cups cooked goose l^^ cup gravy or white sauce 

2 cups cooked hominy Salt " 

14 cup crumbs browned in Pepper " \, 

goose fat. 
Cover the bottom of a baking dish with hominy. Add a layer of 
goose meat and half the gravy, another layer of hominy, meat, and 
gravy. Put crumbs over the top and bake until crumbs are brown. 



RABBIT EN CASSEROLE. 

Dress and disjoint a rabbit. Season pieces with salt and pepper, 
dredge in corn flour, sear to brown in corn oil or oleomargarine. Re- 
move and place in casserole and cover with hot soup stock, water or 
skim milk. Cook slowly for 2 hours or until tender. 

CREAMED RABBIT. 

(Left over rabbit may be used in this way). Dress and cut up 

rabbit. Cook the pieces until meat comes from bone. Remove from 

bone and cut in small pieces. For 2 cups cooked meat use about i/{. 

cup diced mushrooms (this may be omitted). Make a sauce by cooking 

3 tablespoons corn flour in 3 tablespoons oleomargarine and then adding 
2 cups stock in which rabbit was cooked. A bit of egg yolk may be 
used in place of a part of the corn flour as a thickening agent. Season 
with IVo teaspoons salt, pepper, 14 teaspoon chopped parsley, and 2 
teaspoons mushroom ketchup. Add meat and mushrooms and sauce. 
Heat and serve in pattie shells, in pie, or on corn dodgers. 

RABBIT MOULD. 

Dress and cut up a rabbit. Cook slowly in seasoned boiling water 
until meat falls from the bone. Remove rabbit. Concentrate soup 
stock to 2 cups. Strain and skim off fat. Decorate bottom of mold with 
parsley and slices of hard cooked eggs. Soak 1 tablespoon Knox gela- 
tine in cold water and add to hot liquid. To this add the diced meat, 
% cup diced celery, and 3 or 4 strips pimento. Pour all into a mould 
to set. Other diced vegetables may be added if desired. Serve with 
boiled salad dressing. 

HEAD CHEESE. 

Dress 1 hog's head or half a head if a smaller quantity is desired. 
Remove excess fat. Cover remainder with water and cook slowly until 
meat falls from the bone. Highly season the water during cooking with 
salt, celery salt, onion salt, a bit of bay leaf, and a bit of onion. Take 
from stock and concentrate the stock to % its original volume. Cut 
meat in small pieces, some of which may be reserved for scrapple. 
Reheat in stock. Put in mold to cool and set. 

BRAISED TONGUE. 

1 beef tongue l^ cup celery diced 
Vj cup carrots diced 1 sprig parsley 

% cup onion diced. 
Cook tongue slowly in boiling water 2 hours. Take out, remove 
skin and roots. Place in deep pan and surround with vegetables. Add 

4 cups of sauce. Cover closely and bake 2 hours, turning after the 
first liour. 

SAUCE FOR BRAISED TONGUE. 
Brown \i cup oleomargarine. Add 14 cup corn flour and stir 
together until well browned. Add gradually 4 cups of hot water in 
whicli the tongue was cooked. Season with salt and pepper and 1 
teaspoon Worcestershire sauce. lYz cups strained tomatoes may be 
substituted for part of the water. 

TAMALE PIE (MEAT EXTENDER). 

2 cups corn meal 1 lb. Hamburger steak 
2% teaspoons salt 2 cups tomatoes 

6 cups boiling water i^ teaspoon cayenne pepper or 

1 onion 1 small chopped sweet pepper 

1 tablespoon fat 1 teaspoon salt 

Make mush by stirring corn meal into boiling salted water. Cook 

in double boiler or fireless cooker 1% hours. Brown onion in fat, add 

Hamburger and stir until red color disappears. Add tomato, pepper, 

salt. Grease a baking dish, put in layer mush, then the seasoned 

meat, and then another layer of mush over the top. Bake 30 minutes. 



BEEF STEW. 

1 pound beef 1 cup carrots cut up small 

4 potatoes cut in quarters 1 teaspoon salt 

1/4 peck peas or 1 can 
Cut the meat in small pieces and brown in the fat from the meat. 
Simmer in 2 quarts of water for 1 hour. Add the peas and carrots and 
cook for one-half hour, then add the potatoes. If canned peas are 
used, add them 10 minutes before serving. Serve when potatoes are 
done. 

DIFFERENT STEWS. 

Here is the way you can change the stews to make them different 
and to suit tlie season: 

1. The meat. — This may be any kind and more or less than a 
pound may be used. Use the cheap cuts, the flank, rump, neck, or 
brisket. The long, slow cooking makes them tender. Game and 
poultry are good. 

2. Potatoes and barley may be used or barley alone, or rice, 
hominy, or macaroni. 

3. Vegetables.— Carrots, turnips, onions, peas, beans, cabbage, toma- 
toes are good, canned or fresh. Use one or more of these, as you wish. 

4. Parsley, celery tops, onion tops, seasoning herbs, or chopped 
sweet peppers add to the flavor. 

5. Many left-overs may be used — not only meat and vegetables, 
but rice or hominy. 

HOW TO COOK THE STEWS. 

All kinds of stews are cooked in just about the same way. Here 
are directions which will serve for making almost any kind. 

Cut the meat in small pieces and brown with the onion in the 
fat cut from the meat. Add the salt and pepper, seasoning vegetables 
(onion, celery tops, etc.), 2 quarts of water, and the rice, or other 
cereals, if it is to be used. Cook for an hour, then add the vegetables 
except potatoes. Cook the stew for half an hour, add the potatoes 
cut in quarters, cook for another half an hour, and serve. 

The tireless cooker may well be used, the meat and the veg- 
etables being put in at the same time. 

Left-overs or canned vegetables need only to be heated through. 
Add them 15 minutes before serving. 

Dried peas or ])eans should be soaked over night and cooked for 
3 hours before adding to the stew; or, better, cook them over night 
in a fireless cooker. 

MEAT PIES. 

Another good way to use a little meat. Have you ever used rice, 
corn-meal mush, or hominy for a crust? This is less ,vork than a 
pastry crust and saves wheat. 

4 cups cooked corn meal, rice, i/g teaspoon pepper, 

or hominy. 1 tablespoon fat. 

1 onion. 1 pound raw meat or left- 

2 cups tomato. over meat cut up small. 

% teaspoon salt 
Melt the fat, add the sliced onion, and, if raw meat is used, add 
it and stir until the red color disappears. Add the tomato and season- 
ing. If cooked meat is used, add it with the tomato and seasoning, 
after the onion is browned, and heat through. Grease a baking dish, 
put in a layer of the cereal, add the meat and gravy, and cover with 
the cereal dotted with fat. Bake for half an hour. 

COTTAGE PIE. 

(Use of left-over meat.) Cover the bottom of an oiled baking dish 
with seasoned maslied potatoes. Add a thick layer of creamed meat 
or bits of meat moistened with skim milk or meat stock. Cover with 
mashed potatoes. Bake long enough to heat through. 



CREAMED WIENERS. 

2 cups white sauce No. 2. 14 lb. wieners. 

Sauce: — 2 tablespoons flour, 2 tablespoons butter to one cup milk. 
Skin and dice wieners, add to white sauce and let stand on back ol 
stove ten minutes before serving. Good with baked potatoes. 

KIDNEY BEANS WITH MEAT. 
2 cups diced meat. 2 cups beans. 

2 cups brown sauce (usually Salt. 

called gravy). Heat and serve on toast. 

A SHEPHERD'S PIE. 
Grease a baking dish; cover the bottom with mashed potatoes. 
Afld a layer of cooked minced meat or fish, seasoned well and mixed 
r^ith meat stock or gravy. Cover with mashed potatoes. Bake long 
enough to heat through — 20 to 8(7 minutes. 

' IBERTY STEW. 

1 onion. 1 s^ice bacon. 

1 green pepper. 14 lb. Liberty steak (ground' 

2 cups spaghetti. li/^ teaspoon salt. 

2 cups tomato juice and pulp. % teaspoon thyme. 

Cut bacon in small pieces and fry out fat. Brown the sliced onion 
in bacon fat, then add the steak and cook until the meat has lost its 
red color. 

Cook spaghetti and pepper in tomato juice, adding water if needed. 
When the spaghetti is cooled combine it with the meat mixture and 
seasoning and simmer until ready to serve. Left over meat may be 
usea instead of Liberty Steak. Flake hominy is as satisfactory as 
spaghetti and saves wheat. 



*'OVER THE TOP" WITH BREAD 



THE STANDARD LOAF, 

1 cup liquid (milk or water). 3 cups flour. 

] teaspoon gait. V4 cake yeast in V4 cup hike 

1 tablespoon sugar. warm water. 

1 tablespoon fat. 

Heat liquid to the boiling point and put in mixing bowl. To 
this add sugar, salt and fat. When coo'ed to lukewarm add the 
yeast which has been soaking in the water. Add enough flour to 
make a stiff batter that will drop from a spoon, and beat thoroughly. 
Add remainder of flour to make a stiff dough. (Sometimes it re- 
quires a little more and sometimes less than 3 cups). 

Knead for about 10 minutes, or until dough is smooth and elastic. 
Cover the bowl and set to rise in warm place with even temperature, 
(about 78 to 86 degrees F. ). When double in bulk knead well to make 
even distribution of gas and good grain. 

Mold into loaf which will fill pan about half full and put in 
greased pan. Rub over top of loaf with a little melted fat. Let loaf 
rise until a light touch with the finger will make a dent in the dough 
or about double in size. Bake for 45 minutes to 1 hour in a moderate 
oven. This makes a loaf weighing about one pound. A good sized 
pan is 4x8x3. 

For war bread substitute rye flour, corn meal, oat meal, rice 
flour, potato flour, barley flour, bean flour, etc. 

USING SUBSTITUTES.— It is necessary to use part wheat flour 
with yeast breads for the substitutes have no gluten (stretch). One 
measure of substitute flour to 2 or 3 of wheat flour makes a very 
good loaf. Do not let the dough rise much more than three fourths 
Its volume. When put in pan to bake let rise a little more than 
three fourths. Bake 10 to 15 minutes longer to be sure there is no 
soggy center in the loaf. 



8 

CORN BREAD. 

(1) (2) 

2 cups corn meal. 2 cups corn meal. 

2 cups sweet milk (whole or 2 cups sour milk. 

skim). 1 teaspoon soda. 

4 teaspoons baking powder. 1 tablespoon sugar. 

1 tablespoon sugar. 2 tablespoons fat. 

2 tablespoons fat. 1 teaspoon salt. 

1 teaspoon salt. 1 egg (may be omitted). 

1 egg (may be omitted). 

Mix dry ingredients. Add milk, well-beaten egg. and melted fat. 
Beat well. Bake in shallow pan for about 30 minutes. 

SPOON CORN BREAD. 

1 cup corn meal. 1 teaspoon salt. 

1 teaspoon baking powder. 2 tablespoons shortening. 

1 cup milk. 2 eggs. 
11/^ cups water. 

Mix the meal with milk and boiling water, heat gradually, and 
simmer 5 minutes over fire or 10 minutes in double boiler. Remove 
from stove, add salt, shortening and well beaten yolks; then cool 
slightly and fold in the stiff whites of eggs and baking powder and 
pour into greased dish. Bake in rather hot oven 30 minutes and serve 
from dish at once. 

CEREAL GEMS. 

Even quantities of flour and softened cooked breakfast food. 1 
teaspoon baking powder to a cup of material and add enough milk to 
make batter which will just drop from spoon. Mix thoroughly and 
bake in hot greased gem pan 20 minutes. 

POTATO BISCUIT. 

2 cups flour (1 barley and 1 1 teaspoon salt. 

white). 2 tablespoons shortening. 

1 cup potato. 1 cup milk. 

4 teaspoons baking powder. 

Sift dry ingredients. Pass potato (cooked) through a ricer. 
Add potato, shortening and milk. Cut in with a knife. Toss on a 
floured board and pat out with hand to about one-half inch thickness. 
Cut out and bake in a hot oven 15 minutes. 

MUSH ROLLS. 
1 cake compressed yeast in 2 tablespoons corn syrup. 

1/4 cup lukewarm water. 1 cup corn meal mush. 
1 egg. Flour for stiff dough (about 

y2 cup milk. cup). 

1 teaspoon salt. 

Dissolve the yeast in the lukewarm water. Mix the dissolved 
yeast, salt, syrup, beaten egg, milk and mush. Add white flour to 
make a stiff bread dough. Knead well. Let rise in a warm place 
until double in bulk and knead again. When light, roll on floured 
board until dough is lA inch thick. Spread with butter, fold like 
Parkerhouse Rolls. When the rolls have risen to twice their size 
bake 25 to 30 minutes in moderately hot oven. (About 100 rolls.) 

COMBINATION MUFFINS. 

1 cup corn meal. 4 teaspoons baking powder. 

Vz cup rye flour. 1 teaspoon salt. 

V2 cup bran. 1 tablespoon sugar (or syrup). 

1 egg. 1 tablespoon melted fat. 

1 cup milk. 

Mix and sift dry ingredients. Add egg ana milk beaten together. 
Add shortening last. Bake in muffin tins 25 to 30 minutes This 
makes 16 muffins. 



CORN MEAL BREAD. 

IVi cups liquid. Vi yeast cake, dry or com- 

iy2 teaspoons salt. pressed, in V^ cup luke- 

% cup corn meal. warm water. 

2% cups flour. 
Pour liquid over the corn meal and salt. Heat to the boiling 
point. Cook 20 minutes in double boiler or over hot water. Cool, 
add yeast and flour. Knead, let rise until double in bulk. Knead 
again, shape into loaf and let rise in pan until the bulk has again 
doubled. Bake 50 minutes. 

OATMEAL BREAD. 

1 cup liquid. H cake yeast in V4, cup luke- 

1 teaspoon salt. warm water. 

1 cup rolled oats. 21/2 cups white flour. 

Scald the liquid, add salt and pour over the rolled oats. Cool 
slowly letting it stand V2 hour. Add yeast and sifted flour, knead 
and let rise until double in bulk. Knead again, let rise in pan until 
light. Bake in a moderate oven from 50 to 60 minutes. 

If long process bread is made, the rolled oats need not be scalded, 
but may be added directly to the sponge. 

OATMEAL MUFFINS. 
% cup rolled oats. 2 tablespoons melted fat. 

1 cup scalded milk. IV^ cups flour. 

3 tablespoons sugar. li^ tablespoons baking powder. 

% teaspoon salt. 1 well beaten egg. 

Add scalded milk to rolled oats and let stand 30 minutes. Add 
sugar, salt and melted fat, the flour sifted with the baking powder. ■ 
Mix ingredients. Add the well beaten egg and beat the mixture thor- 
oughly. Drop by spoonful into well greased muffin tins and bake 
from 25 to 30 minutes in a moderately hot oven. 

BARLEY COOKIES. 

1 cup corn syrup. V4 cup cold water. 

% cup shortening. 14 teaspoon salt. 

3 eggs. 1 cup raisins. 

1 teaspoon soda. Barley flour. 

Mix the corn syrup, shortening and salt. Add part of the flour 
the soda dissolved in cold water and the well beaten eggs. Add the 
raisins and just enough barley flour to make a drop cooky. Drop 
by teaspoonfuls in a greased pan. Bake 10-12 minutes in a moder- 
ately hot oven. (Abbott). 

AUNT MAG'S COOKIES. 

2 cups sugar. 2 eggs. 

1 cup butter. 1 teaspoon grated nutmeg 

1/^ cup sour milk. (or vanilla). 

1 teaspoon soda. 

Use enough flour to make a soft dough, handle lightly, roll very- 
thin and cut as other cookies. Bake in quick oven. 

OATMEAL DROP COOKIES. 

1% cups flour. 21/^ teaspoons baking powder. 

2 cups rolled oats. V2 cup corn syrup. 
14 cup brown sugar. % cup milk. 

% teaspoon cinnamon. ^/^ cup melted fat. 

% teaspoon salt. % cup raisins, seeded and cut 

y2 teaspoon cloves. into halves. 

% teaspoon nutmeg. 
Sift together the flour, salt, spices and baking powder; add 
raisins and oatmeal. To the corn syrup add melted fat, add milk 
and brown sugar. Add liquid mixture gradually to the dry ingred- 
ients. Stir well. Drop by small teaspoonsful on greased baking sheet. 



10 



^'^ -Sj = "? ~. '£ 



^ r 



r; 


-' 


Ti 


!: 


'-_ 


5. 


_i 


'•5 


> 




"^ 


.Jt:; 


' 




—■- 


— 


-" 


.... 


c 


'-i 




? 


i 


- 


= 


_ 


— 


r^ 





.■c 




- 


•; 


— 


^ 


■_, 


f-^ 


- 




— ' 






















-*— ' 


- 


"'^ 


r~ 


— 




-^ 






™ 


















t . 




^ V 


. 




^ 


05 


1. 


i- 


c 
,.2 


c 




, -< 


_j1; 


v~ 




— 


' 


-, 


'^ 







A. 


- 


- 


■- 


•- 









■J 


— 4 


















«=! 


I— 




QQ 


U- ^ 


X 


s 

1 . 1 


LU 


s 




11 

Bake about 15 minutes in a moderate oven (195° C to 210" C). This 
makes about 72 cookies. 

APPLE SAUCE CAKE. 

1 cup sugar. 1% cups flour. 

% cup shortening. li^ cup raisins. 

1 salt spoon salt. More fruit if desired. 

% teaspoon ground cloves. 1 teaspoon soda dissolved in 

% teaspoon grated nutmeg. a little water. 

Put soda in 1 cup unsweetened apple sauce and let foam. Bake 45 
minutes. This is a good and wholesome war cake. 



VEGETABLES 

Do you eat them every day, many kinds? Cook them so they will 
be refreshing and palatable, and your family will call for them over 
and over again. 

Use all kinds of vegetables — whatever is grown in your own gar- 
den or what can be bought in the market. Vegetables are plentiful 
this summer, for all over the country people have made war gardens. 
No one can afford to miss using vegetables; they mean vigor and 
health for the body. Use what you can while they are fresh and at 
their best and if you have more than you can use now, can, dry or 
preserve them in other ways for winter. 

Use lettuce, onions, cabbage, cauliflower, chard, spinach, Brus- 
sel's sprouts and others like them. These come along all through 
the summer and fall. They give iron, lime and other minerals to 
build the body and keep it in repair. They supply the substance to 
make children grow and keep healthy. 

If you live in the country gather wild greens, which are just 
as good as those grown in the garden. In the city, too, dandelion, 
wild mustard, lamb's quarter and wild lettuce can be found. 

Don't throw away tender beet tops, onion tops, turnip or radish 
tops. ' 

Use potatoes, sweet potatoes, Lima beans, green corn, green peas, 
onions, carrots, squash, green beans. Such vegetables give fuel, be- 
sides the minerals and some of them give protein. They are meat 
and wheat savers. With the right vegetables served less bread can 
be used. 

Remember the many good things vegetables do for the body: they 
help keep the blood pure, and the whole body in good condition, and 
besides all these, think how appetizing they are — crisp lettuce, sweet 
juicy beets, tender peas, celery, beans, corn, tomatoes — all sorts of 
flavors and textures to lend variety to meals. 

POINTS TO REMEMBER IN COOKING FRESH VEGETABLES. 

Vegetables just out of the garden taste best when simply cooked — 
steamed, boiled or baked — and served with a little salt, butter, milk 
or cream. Often a heavily-seasoned sauce covers up the more desir- 
able vegetable flavor. 

Overcooking of vegetables impairs their flavor. Very delicate fla- 
vors are destroyed, while vegetables with strong flavors, such as cab- 
bage or onions, become disagreeably strong if cooked too long. Over- 
cooking also destroys the attractive color of some vegetables. 

Cook summer vegetables as soon after they are gathered as you 
can, in order to preserve the flavor. If they must be kept over, 
keep in the ice box or some other cool place. 

Let wilted vegetables soak in cold water to freshen them. If 
vegetables must stand after paring, covering with cold water will 
prevent wilting and discoloration. 

Before cooking, put head vegetables and greens in cold water 
for an hour, with one tablespoon of vinegar, to remove insects, then 
wash very carefully. 



12 

jjrain all boiled vegetables as soon as tender — they become soggy 
if they are allowed to stand undrained after cooking. The water 
drained off may be saved for soup stock. 

Most vegetables should be cooked in a small amount of water, 
because a part of the mineral salts dissolves out into the water, and 
is lost if the water is thrown away. Cook whole when possible. 

Tender spinach or lettuce leaves require no added water for cook- 
ing. If thoroughly washed, enough water will cling to the leaves to 
prevent their burning. 

Delicately-flavored vegetables should be steamed or cooked slowly 
in a small amount of boiling water until tender and the water boils 
away. 

Strong-flavored vegetables may be cooked uncovered in a large 
amount of rapidly-boiling water, and the water changed several times 
during cooking. 

Starchy vegetables should be put on to cook in a sufficiently large 
amount of boiling water to cover them. Boil gently, and keep kettle 
covered. 

POTATOES FOR PATRIOTS. 

They are real Americans and serve here as home guards. They 
are good fuel. They furnish starch which burns in your muscles to 
let you work, much as the gasoline burns in an automobile engine to 
make the car go. 

POTATO SAUSAGES. 
1 cup mashed potatoes. 11/2 teaspoons salt. 

1 cup ground nuts, fish or Vs teaspoon pepper. 

meat. Salt pork, bacon or other 

1 egg, well beaten. fat. 

Mix the mashed potatoes and seasonings with the ground nuts, 
fish or meat. Add beaten egg. Form into little cakes or sausages, 
roll in flour and place in greased pan with a small piece of fat or salt 
pork on each sausage. Bake in a fairly hot oven until brown. 

POTATOES IN CHEESE SAUCE OR WALDORF POTATOES. 

To one-half cup white sauce, add two to four tablespoonsful of 
grated cheese, depending on cheese and flavor desired. To each one- 
half cup of sauce, add one cup boiled potatoes cut in cubes. Heat 
carefully without boiling. Cheese may be omitted and chopped parsley 
used. 

CREAMED POTATOES. 

2 cups white sauce. 6 medium-sized cooked pota- 

toes. 

Make white sauce by mixing 4 tablespoons flour with a little cold 
milk, add remainder of the milk, and cook until it boils, stirring con- 
stantly. 

Add 1 to 2 tablespoons fat, and % teaspoon of salt. Pour white 
sauce over potatoes, reheat and serve hot. 

NOTE — Almost any cooked vegetable may be creamed in this same 
way. 

Examples: Cauliflower, onion, cabbage and carrots. 

POTATO AU GRATIN. 

6 medium-sized boiled or 2 cups white sauce, 

steamed potatoes. V2 cup crumbs. 

J/^ cup grated cheese. 
Put a layer of boiled potatoes in a greased baking dish. Cover with 
% of white sauce and '3 cheese. Repeat, making three layers, cover 
with crumbs and bake Yz hour in moderate oven. 



13 

NOTE — Oak Hill potatoes are prepared by substituting slices of 
hard cooked eggs for the cheese in the above recipe for potatoes au 
gratin. 

POTATO NESTS. 

Make mashed potatoes into nests, brush with beaten egg and 
brown quickly. The nests may be filled with grated cheese or creamed 
fish, chicken, etc. Garnish and serve hot. 

POTATO FISH LOAF. 

1 pint mashed potato. Pepper. 

1 cup cooked fish, chopped. % cup milk. 
Salt. 2 tablespoons fat. 

2 eggs. 

Mix the potatoes, fish and seasonings. Add the milk, beaten eggs 
and melted fat. Place in a greased pan and bake in a moderate oven 
from twenty-five to thirty minutes. 

CARROTS AU OTTEN. 

6 good-sized carrots. 1 cracker. 

2 inch cube of cheese. V2 cup sauce. 

Scrape carrois and dice. Cook in salted boiling water until tender 
using enough water to have 1,4 cup of liquid left. 

Pour water off the cooked carrots, and make sauce by melting 
1 tablespoon each of butter and flour, then add the hot water from car- 
rots and stir constantly until thick. Put a layer of carrots in baking 
dish, grate part of the cheese over top, add another layer of carrots and 
cheese. Pour sauce over top of dish, sprinkle cracker crumbs last 
and bake in hot oven about 30 minutes. 

STUFFED PEPPERS. 

Cut peppers in half or cut a slice from the top. Remove seeds and 
parboil ten minutes. Stuff with a creamed vegetable, e. g., celery or 
corn, or a mixture of bread crumbs, cold meats, vegetables and sea- 
sonings. Bake in a moderate oven for thirty minutes. 

Egg plant, tomatoes, and other vegetables may be stuffed in the 
same way. 

EGG PLANT. 

Pare an egg plant, cut in one-fourth inch slices and soak in cold 
salted water. Drain, and dry between towels. Sprinkle with salt and 
pepper, dip in batter, or dip in flour, egg, and crumbs, and saute in hot 
pan. 

SCALLOPED CABBAGE. 

Put a layer cooked cabbage in a greased baking dish. Cover with 
a layer of white sauce. Repeat, making three layers of each. Cover 
with crumbs and bake 30 minutes in moderate oven. 

NOTE — Any cooked vegetable may be used instead of cabbage. 
Grated cheese may be added to the white sauce if desired. 

NOTE — Crumbs used on top of scalloped dishes will brown more 
satisfactorily if mixed with melted fat or oil in the proportion of 1 
teaspoon of fat to V2 cup of crumbs. 



EGG SUGGESTIONS 



CREAMED EGGS. 
3 hard boiled eggs. 1 cup cream sauce. 

Slice eggs on platter, cover with sauce. Garnish with very small 
bits of parsely and pimento strips. 



14 




15 



BAKED EGGS. 

6 eggs. 1/2 teaspoon salt. 

2 cups cheese sauce. 

Put half the sauce into greased baking dish, drop eggs into sauce, 
sprinkle with salt then cover with remainder of sauce. Set in pan 
of boiling water and bake until eggs are set. 

SCRAMBLED EGGS WITH MUSH. 

2 eggs. I4 cup milk. 

2 tablespoons mush. Salt. 

Beat eggs lightly, add mush and miix ana cook quickly as plain 
scrambled eggs. Serve immediately. 

DILLIFIFFI TOAST. 

2 cups white sauce, (No. 1). 1 teaspoon salt. 

3 hard cooked eggs. 

Add salt ana chopped whites of eggs to the sauce; pour over 
hot toast. Rub egg yolks through sieve and sprinkle over top of 
toast. Garnish with parsley. 

ESCALLOPED EGGS AND COTTAGE CHEESE. 

6 hard boiled eggs. 1 cup cream sauce. 

1/2 cup cottage cheese. 1 sweet red pepper in strips. 

Cut eggs in quarters and put about % of the amount in buttered 
baking dish. Cover with sauce into which the cottage cheese has 
been folded and sprinkle over it a layer of the sliced pepper. Re- 
peat until dish is full. Sprinkle crumbs on top, dot with butter sub- 
stitute and brov.'n in hot oven. 



The recipes upon this leaf 
Are not of such great cost, 

So try them when your day is brief 
There'll be no labor lost. 

WAR TIME SALADS 



FRENCH DRESSING. 

3 tablespoons oil. 1 teaspoon salt. 

1 tablespoon vinegar or I/2 teaspoon paprika. 

lemon juice. Onion juice (if desired). 

Have ingredients cold and mix thoroughly. 

COOKED DRESSING. 

1 teaspoon salt. 2 egg yolks or 1 whole egg. 

1 teaspoon mustard. 1% tablespoons melted butter 
cayenne. substitute or oil. 

% tablespoon cornstarch. i/^ cup milk. 

3 tablespoons vinegar. 
Mix dry ingredients. Add yolks of eggs slightly beaten, butter 
substitute, milk and vinegar, very slowly. Cook over hot water until 
mixture thickens. Strain and cool. 

LIMA OR KIDNEY BEAN SALAD. 

2 cups cold boiled beans. 1 shredded green pepper. 
14 cup diced celery. 1 small onion. 

1 cup broken nut meats. Salt. 

Pour over mixture French dressing or any cooked salad dressing. 
Let stand 30 minutes in cold place. Serve on lettuce. 



16 




17 

CARROT SALAD. 

1 cup ground raw carrots. i/i cup walnut meats (chopped 

1 cup finely diced celery. fine). 

Mix with cooked dressing, or serve on individual plates with 
dressing poured over. Serve on bed of green. 

COTTAGE CHEESE. 

Cottage cheese and pimentoes in green pepper rings. 

Cottage cheese and ground nuts on lettuce. 

Cottage cheese made into balls (bird eggs). Dot with paprika 
and serve three in nest of green, spinach, parsley or lettuce. 

Cottage cheese in balls and placed on slice tomato. Put on top 
a stiff salad dressing. Serve on lettuce leaf and garnish with stuffed 
olives and yolk of hard boiled egg. 

APPLE RINGS. 

Pare and core two apples. Put in salted cold water for a few 
moments. Slice apples and place three rings on each plate of lettuce. 
Put maraschino cherry in each center. Thin salad dressing over salad. 
(Serves four). 

PRUNE SALAD. 

Prunes. Nuts or cream cheese. 

Soak prunes and cook until soft. Remove stones and fill prune 
with nuts or cream cheese. Serve on lettuce with mayonnaise, 
cooked or French dressing. 



FRUITS 



Fruits, like vegetables, can and should form a considerable por- 
tion of the food of the American people. They furnish starch and 
sugar, as well as mineral salts. 

The general principles of vegetable cookery apply to the cooking 
of fruits. Custom has established the practice of using many fruits 
without cooking or of .serving them as sauce. Neither of these methods 
involves a loss of food material.s. 

STUFFED DATES. 

Use the best dates, remove the stones. Fill with peanuts, wal- 
nuts, hickory nuts, or any nuts available. Peanut butter makes a 
good filling, that is different. Press the dates in shape and roll in 
chopped nuts, cocoanut, mixture of cocoa and powdered cinnamon. 

STUFFED PRUNES. 

Steam 1 pound prunes and remove stones. Stuff part of the 
prunes, each with another prune, stuff other with chopped nuts, or 
stuff with mixture of 1 cup each raisins and walnuts and a few 
candied cherries. Another suggestion is to stuff prunes with stiff 
orange marmalade. 

APRICOT AND PRUNE MARMALADE. 

2 pounds prunes. 1 cup corn sirup. 

1 pound dried apricots. % cup sugar. 

Juice and rind of 1 orange. 

Cook aprTcots and prunes separately until soft. Remove prune 
stones and put fruit through meat grinder. Cook together with sugar 
until thickened, cool and add the orange. 

APRICOT AND PINEAPPLE MARMALADE. 

1 lb. dried apricots. 1 can grated pineapple (25c). 

Wash apricots thoroughly, soak in just enough water to cover. 
When soft put througji meat grinder or chop fine. Add grated pino 
apple and mix. To each cup of the mixture add i/^ cup corn sirup and 
Yz cup of sugar. Cook until it thickens. 



18 

APPLE-RAISIN MARMALADES. 

To one cup ground seeded raisins add one cup cliopped apples 
and one cup water. Cook until thickened. A little orange and lemon 
juice and grated rind may be added, if liked. Cooked dried fruits, as 
apricots, pears, peaches, or prunes may be used in combination with 
the ground raisins in any proportion desired, and three fruits com- 
bined as apricots, apples, and raisins. 



CANTEEN WORK 



BOILED DRESSING. 

8 tablespoons butter. Mix together in bowl the following: 

12 tablespoons flour blended 4 teaspoons salt, 

with butter. 4 teaspoons sugar. 

4 cups milk, boil five minutes 4 teaspoons mustard, 
stirring carefully. 2 teaspoons paprika. 

1 cup vinegar. 
Add to cooked mixture, allow to come to boiling point. Remove 
from fire (to reduce temperature). Add 4 well beaten eggs, put back 
on fire and cook at low temperature until thick. 

In using rice flour, or cornstarch, as substitute, 8 tablespoons flour. 
If corn oil in place of butter 6 tablespoons. Measurements all level 
and standard measuring cup. 

HAM SANDWICHES. 

6 ounces butter (% of a lb.). 2 tablespoons mustard. 
1 lb. thinly sliced ham. Cream butter and mustard. 

Cut 20 slices of bread on table, spread one side, divide mixture on 
20 slices, spread, arrange ham same way, cover and label. 
Wrap sandwich carefully in oiled paper. 

20 MINCED HAM SANDWICHES. 
40 slices bread. I/2 lb. boiled ham. 

6 ounces butter. % cup salad dressing (% cup 

is 12 tablespoons). 
Put butter and tiam through grinder together and add dressing 
to ground mixture. Divide entire mixture on 20 slices of bread, cover 
with other and wrap. 

20 MINCED CHEESE SANDWICHES. 

40 slices bread. % cup dressing. 

6 ounces butter. 

Mix cheese and butter through grinder, add dressing, finish as 
for minted ham sandwiches. 

20 NUT AND CHEESE SANDWICHES. 

40 slices bread. 1 cup dressing. 

1/4 lb. cheese. 
Put cheese, butter and nuts through grinder, spread as for other 
sandwiches. 

20 FRUIT AND NUT SANDWICHES. 
40 slices of bread. i/^ teaspoon salt. 

1 cup dates. 3 tablespoons lemon juice. 

% cup figs. % cup corn syrup. (Leave out 

1/4 cup raisins. syrup for home use). 

Vs cup peanut butter. 
Put figs, dates, raisins through grinder, add salt, butter, lemon 
/uice and syrup. Spread as other sandwiches. 

20 BEAN SANDWICHES. 

40 slices bread. 1 cup cooked beans. 

6 ounces butter. % cup dressing. 

Put beans and butter through grinder together. Add dressing 
and spread on 20 slices of bread, cover and wrap carefully. 



19 

20 EGG SANDWICHES. 

40 slices bread. tl hard boiled eggs. 

6 ounces butter. % cup dressing. 

Put eggs and butter through grinder and dressing. Finish as 
above. To cook the eggs put in hot Avater and let stand 40 minutes. 

CONCENTRATED COCOA SYRUP. 

1 lb. cocoa. % gallon boiling water. 
y^ cup sugar. Boil 10 minutes. 

LEMON SYRUP. 

2 lbs. sugar. .Juice and parings of 12 

1 pint water. lemons. 

Boil parings and water three minutes, then add juice of lemons. 

I GALLON COCOA. 

^2. llJ- dry cocoa. 1 quart boiling water. 

^4, lb. sugar. :\ quarts hot milk. 

Mix cocoa and sugar, add boiling water, boil .^> minutes. Add hot 
milk. 

10 GALLONS COCOA. 

.5 lbs. cocoa. 2V> gals, boiling water. 

I'Vo lbs. sugar. 1^2 gals, boiling milk. 

FOR 1 CUP COCOA. 

2 teaspoons cocoa. ^^4 cup hot water. 
'.J t('asi)ooM sugar. i/^ cup milk. 

10 GALLONS COFFEE. 

Ill lbs. coflee. .5 lbs. sugar. 

10 gals, cold water. 1^2 quarts hot milk. 

I'liice colTee in muslin bag to cook. 

1 GALLON TEA. 

2 ounces lea. V/2 pints milk or G cans evap- 

V2 pound sugar. orated milk. 

1 gal. freshly boiled water. 

Put tea in cheese cloth bag, add to boiling water, allow to stand 
3 or 4 minutes in covered vessel without heat. After 3 minutes 
remove bag, add sugar and milk. 



Note. — Tlie ('aiiteeii Work i-ecipe.s from the New Vork county chap- 
ter ai'o contribulfd tiy the Spring-field chapter and acknowledgment is 
made. 



LEFT OVERS 



"Scraps saved here will save the Scrap over there." 

"Some of the dishes made from meal 

From vegetables and meat, 
Are just a few things of our own 

Our goo-ya so to speak; 
Please try them for food substitutes 

And add your favorite, 
Then pass them on to new recruits 

Who'll cook to win the fight." 

AMERICAN RICE. 

4 cups cooked rice. i cup ground cooked ham 

1 green pepper or pimento. (coarsely ground). 

1/^ cup tomato. Salt. 

Heat all together (good). 



20 

CREOLE RICE WITH CHICKEN. 

2 cups cooked rice. 1 cup peas. 

2 cups chicken gravy. 1 minced onion. 

% cup tomato pulp. Cook all together ten min- 

2 cups diced, cooked chicken. utes. 

POULTRY WITH PEAS. 

1 cup cold chicken, duck, or 2 tablespoons rice flour, 
turkey. li/^ cups skimmed milk. 

1 cup canned peas. Salt, pepper. 

2 tablespoons fat. 

Melt fat, add the flour, beat until brown. Add the milk grad- 
ually until thick. Add the chicken with peas, seasoning. 

BEAN CROQUETTES. 

1 cup bean puree. li cup milk. 

1 tablespoon onion or green 1 cup bread crumbs. 

pepper. 1 egg. 

1 teaspoon fat. 
Make into croquettes and fry in deep fat. 

SCALLOPED SALMON AND MACARONI. 

Place alternate layers of salmon and cooked macaroni in a baking 
dish, cover with cream sauce and bake in hot oven 30 minutes. 

Cold boiled potatoes, hominy or noodles may be used in place 
of macaroni. 

VICTORY MUSH. 

1 cup corn meal. 1 teaspoon salt. 

3 cups boiling water. 

Sauce — 1 tablespoon butter (or substitute), 1 tablespoon flour, 1 
cup milk, 1 inch culse cheese. Make as ordinary cream sauce. 

Put water in double boiler and stir in corn meal slowly, stining 
until the mixture thickens and is smooth. Cook to very thick mush. 
Turn mush on platter and pour over it cream sauce with grated 
cheese. If desired a hard boiled egg may be chopped fine and used in 
the sauce without the cheese. Garnish with sprigs of parsley and 
small pieces of pimento. 

MACARONI SPECIAL OR "GOULASH." 

Cook 1 cup macaroni in boiling (salted) water 30 minutes. Re- 
move from fire, drain. To the cooked macaroni add 2 cups cooked 
kidney beans, 2 cups minced chicken, or beef, 2 tomatoes (or % cup) 
1 large mango pepper. Cook all fifteen minutes. 

FISH FLAKE ENCASSEROLE. 

2 cups flsh or fish flakes. i' cups cooked rice. 
2 cups tomato pulp and juice. ^4 cup fat. 

2 green peppers. Salt, pepper. 

1 small onion. 

Cut peppers and onion in small pieces. Mix all the ingredients 
thoroughly and bake 40 minutes in a well greased baking dish. 

SCALLOPED HOMINY. 

Arrange alternate layers of boiled coarse hominy and minceu 
meat or fish or grated cheese. Pour over all a cup of white sauce and 
bake for 30 minutes. 



LIBRARY OF CONGRESS 




i;i 



014 357 225 0# P 




■ 



« 



if! 

m 



m 

ill I: 



