
Good eou 



A Gift 



From 



The Merchants of Spokane 

whose names appear in this book 




Keep the 
remembrance 
of your 
Wedding Day 
with a picture 
from our Studio 




Phone us for an appointment. MAIN 1958 



The Nelson Studio 



824V 2 Riverside 

Near the Post Office 

Spokane 






Illllllllllllllllll 



Our Home 



= Strength 

and 
H Security 



w 

p 


P 


ft 


1 


!«**■*■ 


stfra 






i i 




JhJ 


^^^j^^^^^^Hb ' 


i 



Safety m 
First M 



Your Savings are 

Safe and Available 



Under State Supervision 



We 
Paid 



7 



1% 

2 



on Savings 
for 1921 



All directors of 

The National Savings & Loan Assn. 

are Spokane Business Men 



120 North Wall, Spokane 

minimi 



Confidence — 

Do you know that the 
foundation of our busi- 
ness is "Conf idence" — 
your confidence in us? 




We have built up our business by 
selling only merchandise of the 
best quality, merchandise that 
pleases and satisfies long after 
purchased. 

The name "HYDE" on the gift 
box adds much in prestige, but 
nothing in price. 



E. J. HYDE CO. 

MANUFACTURING JEWELERS 
WATCH MAKERS GEM CUTTERS 

Established 1889 



Phone 1751 



9 South Howard St. 



Spokane, Wash, 



CUPID'S BOOK 



ft 

GOOD COUNSEL 




rPHIS BOOK is presented free to the Bride 
A and Groom with the compliments of the 
ADVERTISERS therein, who make such 
presentation possible. We recommend them 
as the best in their respective lines and they 
will accord you the fairest kind of treatment. 
Your patronage will be highly appreciated by 
them. Please mention Cupid's Book. 



Compiled and Published by 

E. F. Kiessling & Son 

Box 557 
Oakland :•: California 




Ladies— 

Apparel with Style 



Your personal appearance may 
be greatly improved by the care- 
ful selection of well appearing 
clothes. 



Wolper's Ladies' Garments 

Are stylish, well made and reasonably priced. 
Visit our new, greatly enlarged store, now lo- 
cated in the heart of Spokane's new shopping 
district. 



"Watch Our Windows" 



AGRICULTURE 



OLPER' 

LADIES SHOP ^ 



510 Main Avenue 



Spokane, Wash. 





That life's sweetest offerings — to those who live and love 
and cherish the goodness and beauty of its being — may 
come to you and yours; that in the strength and sanctity 
of your union you may know the beginning of the achieve- 
ment of your destinies — such is our hope and wish in this 
wonder-hour of your life. 

. > ' '•■■■ 



49§ 




Uncharted 
Courses 

Just what experiences will 
be yours in the next fifty 
years, no one knows. Our 
wish is, of course, that they 
are always pleasant ones. 
Much of the joy of living 
comes from pleasant sur- 
roundings. Your immediate 
environment depends upon 
yourself. Make your home 
pleasant and attractive with 

FULLER'S 
PAINTS AND VARNISHES 

Fuller's Rubber Cement Floor Paint — 

A hard, durable, dependable floor paint. One of the oldest of 
the Fuller products. Dries hard over night. Washing and mop- 
ping hardens it. Obtainable in twelve colors. Gallons to pints. 

Fuller's Silken White Enamel 

is remarkable for its depth and intensity. If you don't know 
Fuller's Silken White Enamel you don't know enamels. Obtain- 
able in eight shades. Gallons to pints. 

Fuller's Washable Wall Finish 

gives the soft pastel effects so desirable for any room. Easily 
cleaned with a dampened cloth. Obtainable in fifteen colors. 
Gallons to pints. 

We Tell You How 

If you are unable to locate a master painter send for Fuller's 
"Home Service" Booklet, which tells you everything you will want 
to know about painting and varnishing. 

W. P. FULLER & CO. 

"Paints for Every Purpose" 




Corner Post St. and Trent Ave. 



Spokane, Washington 



Dear Friends: PLEASE DO THIS: Acknowledge receipt of this book by 
returning postal card and express your ideas of same. Kindly mention 
names of advertisers with whom you intend dealing, and food products, 
household specialties, etc., advertised therein and in which you arc 
interested. 

Yours for Prosperity and Happiness, 

PUBLISHERS. 




ANNIVERSARY GIFTS AND BIRTH GEMS 

We have a fine assortment to select from 
also 

STERLING SILVER PLATED SILVERWARE 

CLOCKS, ETC. 

E. J. HYDE CO. 

9 So. Howard St. Established 1889 Spokane 



BIRTH MONTH GEMS 
Their Sentiment and Flower 

Fanuary— Garnet: Constancy Wild Rose 

February — Amethyst: Contentment Pink 

March — Bloodstone or Aquamarine: Courage Violet 

\pril — Diamond : Innocence Easter Lily 

M ay — Emerald : Success in Love Lily of the Valley 

June — Pearl or Moonstone: Purity Daisy 

fuly — Ruby: Nobility of Mind Rose 

\ugust— Sardonyx or Peridot: Conjugal Felicity Pond Lily 

September — Sapphire: Chastity Poppy 

Dctober — Opal or Tourmaline : Hope Cosmos 

November— Topaz: Fidelity Chrysanthemum 

December — Turquoise or Lapis Lazuli: Success and Happiness '. Holly 

7 



Place 

One Cent 

Stamp 

Here 



E. F. Kiessling & Son 



PUBLISHERS 

CUPID'S BOOK 



Box 557 



OAKLAND, CAL. 



PAINTS AND VARNISHES 

Fuller 9 s Rubber Cement Floor Paint — 

A hard, durable, dependable floor paint. One of the oldest of 
the Fuller products. Dries hard over night. Washing and mop- 
ping hardens it. Obtainable in twelve colors. Gallons to pints. 

Fuller 9 s Silken White Enamel 

is remarkable for its depth and intensity. If you don't know 
Fuller's Silken White Enamel you don't know enamels. Obtain- 
able in eight shades. Gallons to pints. 

Fuller's Washable Wall Finish 

gives the soft pastel effects so desirable for any room. Easily 
cleaned with a dampened cloth. Obtainable in fifteen colors. 
Gallons to pints. 

We Tell You How 

If you are unable to locate a master painter send for Fuller's 
"Home Service" Booklet, which tells you everything you will want 
to know about painting and varnishing. 

W. P. FULLER & CO. 

"Paints for Every Purpose" 




Corner Post St. and Trent Ave. 



Spokane, Washington 



ZUPID'S BOOK 



WEDDING ANNIVERSARY 

First Year Cotton 

Second Year Paper 

Third Year Leather 

Fifth Year Wooden 

Seventh Year Woolen 

Tenth Year Tin 

Twelfth Year Silk and Linen 

Fifteenth Year Crystal 

Twentieth Year China 

Twenty-fifth Year Silver 

Thirtieth Year Pearl 

Fortieth Year Ruby 

Fiftieth Year Golden 

Seventy-fifth Year Diamond 




ANNIVERSARY GIFTS AND BIRTH GEMS 

We have a fine assortment to select from 
also 

STERLING SILVER PLATED SILVERWARE 

CLOCKS, ETC. 



E. J. HYDE CO. 

9 So. Howard St. Established 1889 



Spokane 



BIRTH MONTH GEMS 
Their Sentiment and Flower 

January — Garnet: Constancy Wild Rose 

February — Amethyst : Contentment Pink 

March — Bloodstone or Aquamarine: Courage Violet 

April — Diamond : Innocence Easter Lily 

M ay — Emerald : Success in Love Lily of the Valley 

June — Pearl or Moonstone: Purity Daisy 

July — Ruby : Nobility of Mind Rose 

August — Sardonyx or Peridot: Conjugal Felicity Pond Lily 

September — Sapphire: Chastity Poppy 

October — Opal or Tourmaline: Hope Cosmos 

November — Topaz : Fidelity Chrysanthemum 

December — Turquoise or Lapis Lazuli: Success and Happiness Holly 

7 



INDEX TO ADVERTISERS 



Page 
BAGGAGE, TRANSFER AND STORAGE— 

Childer's — Phone Main 1575 34 

CANNED FOODS — HAPPY HOME BRAND — 

Schwabacher Bros. Co., Inc., Seattle, Wash 107 

CHINA AND DINNERWARE — 

The China Shop, 524 Main Ave 78 

CHOCOLATE— "SAY GEAR-AR-DELLY" — 

Ghirardelli Co., San Francisco, Cal 25 

CLEANING AND DYEING— AT YOUR SERVICE— 

French Cleaners and Dyers, 333 3rd Ave 59 

COFFEE— GOLD SHIELD, "THE COFFEE THAT CHEERS"— 

Schwabacher Bros. & Co., Inc., Seattle, Wash 74 

CORSETS AND HOSIERY — "WE CAN PLEASE YOU" — 

Gossard Shop, N. 6 Wall St 32 

DRESSMAKING — LEARN TO MAKE YOUR OWN DRESSES — 

Spokane School of Dressmaking 50 

ELECTRIC — LABOR SAVING APPLIANCES — 

E. W. Murray Lighting Co., 313 Riverside Iniide Back Cover 

EXTRACTS — BAKING POWDER, SPICES — 

Buckeye Extract Co., Olympia, Wash 66 

FEATHERS — HEMSTITCHING, ETC. — 

Sampson's Feather & Button Works, Kuhn Bldg 36 

FLORISTS — "SAY IT WITH FLOWERS" — 

Albert Burt, Clemmer Theatre Bldg. 10 

FUEL — THE BEST GRADES — 

Diamond Ice & Fuel Co., Phone Maxwell 34 30 

FURNRITURE — "DIRECT FROM FACTORY TO YOU" — 

Harrild's Factory — 927 First St Outside Back Cover 

GAS APPLIANCES OF ALL KINDS— 

Spokane Gas & Fuel Co., N. 25 Monroe 60 

ICE— "SAVE YOUR FOODS WITH ICE"— 

Diamond Ice & Fuel Co., Phone Maxwell 34 30 

JEWELRY— THE DEPENDABLE KIND — 

E. J. Hyde Co., S. 9 Howard St 2 and 7 

LADIES' APPAREL— FASHIONABLE CLOTHING AT RIGHT PRICES— 

Wolper's Ladies' Shop, 510 Main Ave 4 

LUMBER AND BUILDING MATERIALS — 

Home Lumber Co., E. 2901 Trent 46a, 46b 

LAUNDRY — SERVICE AND SATISFACTION — 

Cascade Laundry Co., Phone Maxwell 1078 104 

LIGHT ON EVERY SUBJECT— 

Smith Electric Co., S. 203 Howard 88- 89 

MEATS — NONE BUT THE BEST — 

Plath's Market, 605 Sprague 38 

MAPLE PRODUCTS— "MADE IN SPOKANE" 

Frisbie's Maple Syrup & Maple Sugar Prod. Co., S. Ill Madison St 12 

MARSHMALLOWS— "SUNSHINE"— TRY THEM— 

Sunshine Candy Co., E. 110 3rd Ave 18 

PHONOGRAPHS — THE STRADIVARA. "On Easy Terms" — 

909 Riverside Ave 96 

PHOTOGRAPHS — OF MERIT — 

Nelson's Studio — 824£ Riverside Ave Inside Front Cover 

PIANOS — ON EASY TERMS — 

Oslund Piano House — 1216 Broadway 9 

PICTURE FRAMING— SPECIALISTS— 

The Lee Picture Frame Shop — 1003 Sprague Ave 90 

PAINTS — FOR EVERY PURPOSE— 

W. P. Fuller & Co., N. 229 Post St 6 and 14 

SALAD DRESSING— HOME PRODUCT EXTRAORDINARY— 

C.-R. Products Co., 503 E. Liberty St 52 

SEA FOODS — OF ALL KINDS — 

Victor Johnson Co., N. 124 Wall St 56 

SAVE AND HAVE — 

National Savings and Loan Ass'n., N. 120 Wall St 1 

S H ES — WA L K-0 V ER — 

Shuart's Walk-Over Boot Shop, 719 Riverside Ave 100 

TEA— GOLD SHIELD— EXCELLENT— 

Schwabacher Bros. Co., Inc., Seattle, Wash 76 

TAILORING— BETTER CLOTHES FOR LESS— 

Al Fries — Eagle Bldg., 2nd Floor 16 

YEAST— FLEISCHMANN'S — Booklets g<iven with Cupid's Book. 

8 




Your New Home will be incomplete 
without 

A PIANO 

and before purchasing we ask you to call and 
see our most complete stock of 

GRANDS 

UPRIGHTS 

PLAYERS 



Four Years To Pay For New Pianos' 



ALL LATEST RECORDS AT HALF PRICE 



HICH CRAPE PIANOS 

PLAyER PIANOS 

PHONOGRAPHS E<C. 




12 1 
BRQA DWAV AV ENUE 

SPOKANE, WASH. 




Flowers tell 



what the heart wants to say- 



so 



» 



"Say It With Flowers 

And you want the best — We have only the best 

Let us be your florist 

We are experts 

Try Us 

"FLOWERS FOR EVERY OCCASION" 

ALBERT BURTS 

"PALACE OF FLOWERS" 

Clemmer Theatre Building 
Spokane, Wash. 



Main 3899 



P. O. Box 1877 



10 



TABLE OF CONTENTS 



J 



Page 
ANIMAL CUTS — HOW TO SELECT AND BUY MEATS 42 

BEVERAGES 75 

BREAD, BISCUIT, MUFFINS, WAFFLES, ETC 13 

CAKES AND HOW TO MAKE THEM 19 

CHOCOLATE RECIPES . 26 

CONFECTIONS 37 

EGGS 45 

FILLINGS AND ICINGS 27 

FISH 57 

HOUSEKEEPING NOTES 97 

HOUSEHOLD HINTS 101 

ICE CREAM, ICES AND SHERBETS 31 

JELLIES, JAMS, PRESERVES, MARMALADES, ETC 67 

MEATS 39 

PICKLES 69 

PIES 28 

POULTRY AND GAME 47 

PUDDINGS 33 

PUDDING SAUCES 35 

RELISHES TO BE SERVED WITH MEATS 65 

SALADS 53 

SAUCES 49 

SHELL FISH 57 

SOUPS 43 

SPANISH AND ITALIAN DISHES 71 

SPECIAL RECIPES 55-73- 106 

STAINS — REMOVAL OF 98- 99 

STUFFINGS 51 

TABLE ETIQUETTE 91 

TABLE OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURES. . . 103 

THE TABLE AS IT SHOULD BE SET 79 

TIME-TABLE FOR COOKING 105 

VALUABLE COFFEE RECIPES 77 

VEGETABLES 61 

WORTH KNOWING 102 

• 11 




One of Spokane 1 's 
Finest Products 

Ask 

Your Grocer 

for 

Frisbie's 
Syrup 

"Remember This Label" 



Serve it with- 



Hot Cakes, Waffles, Muffins, Fritters, Gems, 
Biscuits, Rolls, Ice Cream, Puddings, Grape 
Fruit, and let the children try it on their Por- 
ridge and Breakfast Cereals. 

Manufactured and Guaranteed by 

The Frisbie Maple Sugar 

and 

Maple Syrup Co. 



Ill So. Madison St. 



Spokane, Wash. 



12 
Special Recipes on Page 73. Try them 



Bread hS Biscuits 



FRITTERS 



SOUTHERN METHOD 

Warm Flour in Oven Vz Cake Fleischmann's Yeast In Va 

1 Cup Milk, Scalded Cup Lukewarm Water 

1 Cup Potato Water Vz Teaspoon Salt 

1 Medium Potato, Mashed Vz Teaspoon Sugar 

Vz Teaspoon Lard 
Add flour until mixture has appearance of cake batter; beat with wooden spoon 
until very light; let stand; add flour and knead until smooth; brush butter over 
top of dough, cover and let raise 20 minutes; put in very hot oven for 10 minutes, 
then bake in slow oven 45 minutes. 

WHITE BREAD 
Quick Method 
1 Quart Flour. Sifted Vz Teaspoon Salt 

1 Cup Milk 2 Tablespoons Sugar 

1 Cake Fleischmann's Yeast 1 Tablespoon Melted Butter 

Dissolve yeast by breaking into a cup and adding a teaspoon sugar; mix and 
let stand 3 minutes; sift flour in a bowl, make well in center and add water, salt, 
sugar, butter and yeast; mix and knead well; put in a warm place to raise 1Y2 
hours or until light; turn out on moulding board, knead lightly, shape into loaves, 
out in well-buttered pans, let raise 45 minutes; bake 45 minutes. 

WHOLE WHEAT BREAD 
1 Pint Milk Vz Cup Sugar 

1 Teaspoon Salt 1 Cake Fleischmann's Yeast 

1 Pint Water Whole Wheat Flour 



FRISBIE MAPLE SUGAR AND MAPLE SYRUP CO. 
SPOKANE, WASH. 

Gentlemen: As I have just started housekeeping, please send 
me free of charge a 20-oz. can of Frisbie's Cane and Maple Syrup. 

My Name 

My Address 



My Grocer 

His Address 

Does he sell Frisbie's Cane and Maple Syrup? 

This offer good only to those listed as having received a copy of Cupid' 
Book of Good Counsel. 



pc«; maKe into two loaves, working very little; let it rise very light and bake 45 
minutes. 



minutes. 

13 




One of Spokane's 
Finest Products 

Ask 

Your Grocer 

for 

Frisbie's 
Syrup 

"Remember This Label" 



tt.j. n~ir~~ tx7~.p-pi^i i\/r„-P-P^o, TT^-M-^n n 



Place 
1 Cent 
Stamp 

Hers 



Frisbie Maple Sugar and Maple Syrup Co. 



Ill So. Madison St. 



Spokane, Wash, 



12 
Special Recipes on Page 73. Try them 



Bread WM™ Biscuits 



FRITTERS 



SOUTHERN METHOD 
Warm Flour in Oven Vz Cake Flelschmann's Yeast In Va 

1 Cup Milk, Scalded Cup Lukewarm Water 

1 Cup Potato Water Vz Teaspoon Salt 

1 Medium Potato, Mashed Vz Teaspoon Sugar 

Vz Teaspoon Lard 
Add flour until mixture has appearance of cake batter; beat with wooden spoon 
until very light; let stand; add flour and knead until smooth; brush butter over 
top of dough, cover and let raise 20 minutes; put in very hot oven for 10 minutes, 
then bake in slow oven 45 minutes. 

WHITE BREAD 
Quick Method 
1 Quart Flour. Sifted Vz Teaspoon Salt 

1 Cup Milk 2 Tablespoons Sugar 

1 Cake Fleischmann's Yeast 1 Tablespoon Melted Butter 

Dissolve yeast by breaking into a cup and adding a teaspoon sugar; mix and 
let stand 3 minutes; sift flour in a bowl, make well in center and add water, salt, 
sugar, butter and yeast; mix and knead well; put in a warm place to raise lVi 
hours or until light; turn out on moulding board, knead lightly, shape into loaves, 
out in well-buttered pans, let raise 45 minutes; bake 45 minutes. 

WHOLE WHEAT BREAD 
1 Pint Milk Vz Cup Sugar 

1 Teaspoon Salt 1 Cake Fleischmann's Yeast 

1 Pint Water Whole Wheat Flour 

Scald milk and add water; when lukewarm add salt, sugar, yeast (dissolved in 
2 tablespoons water) and sufficient whole wheat flour to make a batter that will 
drop from the spoon; beat continually for 5 minutes; cover and let stand in a 
warm place for 3 hours, then add sufficient whole wheat flour to make a dough; 
knead at once into loaves; put in small greased pans, cover and stand in warm 
place for an hour; bake in a moderately quick oven over 45 minutes. 

GRAHAM BREAD 
1 Quart Graham Flour Vz Tablespoon Salt 

1 Cup Potato Water Vz Cup Sugar or Molasses 

1 Cake Fleischmann's Yeast 1 Tablespoon Melted Lard 

Dissolve yeast cake in lukewarm water; mix all ingredients into as stiff a dough 
as can be stirred with a spoon, adding lukewarm water to make it the proper con- 
sistency; let it stand over night; in the morning stir it down with a spoon thor- 
oughly; have bread tins greased; fill each one about Y2 full and let rise to the 
top of the pans; bake in moderate oven over 1 hour for good-sized loaves. 

RAISIN BREAD 
1 Quart Flour 1 or 2 Eggs 

1 Cup Milk 1 Cup Raisins 

3 Tablespoons Sugar 1 Cup Currants 

1 Cake Fleischmann's Yeast Vz Tablespoon each Butter or Lard 

1 Teaspoon Salt Nutmeg, Caraway or Lemon Peel 

Dissolve butter and lard in cup of hot milk, then add cup of either cold water 
or milk to make it lukewarm; sift the flour with the salt and sugar; make a hole 
in center of flour and stir in cake of yeast, which has been dissolved in a little 
lukewarm water; add part of milk, stirring in flour; then break in 1 or 2 eggs 
and balance of milk; beat up the dough lightly, which must be a stiff batter; let 
it raise all night in a warm place and well covered; in the morning add raisins 
and currants, 2 tablespoons of sugar and either nutmeg, caraway seed or lemon 
peel; make into two loaves, working very little; let it rise very light and bake 45 
minutes. 

13 




hen 
strati 1 



When Shall J Paint? 

The answer is, whenever you have come to 
realize what Paints and Varnishes can do to 
make your home and its contents more at- 
tractive, more durable and more pleasing to 
the eye. 

When you know this, consult the W. P. 
Fuller Co., who welcome the opportunity to 
serve you, Spring, Summer, Fall and Winter. 



DECORET 

A richly tinted gloss finish, designed for 
refinishing in color any wood or metal sur- 
face. 

Light Oak, Dark Oak, Walnut, Weathered 

Oak, Mission Oak, Flemish, Cherry, 

Mahogany and Rosewood 

For floors, furniture, chairs, wickerware. 
They are mixed ready for use, stain and var- 
nish with one application, and do not cloud 
the natural grain of the wood. 



Fuller 9 s Fifteen for Floors 

Is the ultimate in floor varnishes. Unaffected by 
heel marks, scratches, wear and tear of rolling fur- 
niture. Gallons to pints. 



Cannot be excelled. In 



Fuller's Floor Wax 

For polishing floors, furniture, woodwork, tables, etc. 
V2 lb. to 8 lb. cans. 

Fuller's Hot Water Wall Finish 

A hot water kalsomine tint, easily applied. Does not show brush marks. Dries 
rapidly. Obtained in 5 lb. packages. 

We Tell Yon How 

If you are unable to locate a master painter send for Fuller's "Home Service 
Booklet,** which tells you everything you will want to know about painting and 
varnishing. 



W. P. FULLER & CO. 

"Paints for Every Purpose" 
Cor. Post St. and Trent Ave., Spokane, Wash 




14 



CUPID'S BOOK 

NUT BREAD 

4 Cups Flour 1 Cup Chopped Nuts 

1 Cup Sguar 1 Cup Chopped Raisins 

1 Cup Milk 2 Teaspoons Baking Powder 

1 Egg Vz Teaspoon Salt 

Beat eggs and sugar and stir in the milk; sift flour, salt and baking powder 
and pour into milk mixture, adding nuts and raisins; form into loaves when kneaded 
smooth; put in deep, well-greased pans, let raise 20 minutes in a warm place and 
bake 40 to 50 minutes. Either the nuts or raisins may be omitted. 

SOUTHERN CORN BREAD 
Cornmeal, White or Yellow 2 Tablespoons Melted Butter or 

2 Eggs, Salt Lard 

1 Quart Silk, Sour 1'/ 2 Teaspoons Soda 

2 Tablespoons Molasses 

Beat eggs, molasses and butter together thoroughly; dissolve soda in the sour 
milk and stir in enough meal to make a light batter; pour in pan about IY2 inches 
thick and bake in moderate oven for about V2 hour. 

CORN BREAD 

Quick Method 

1 Cup Fine Cornmeal 1 Teaspoon Sugar 

2 Eggs 2 Tablespoons Lard 
1'/ 2 Cups Milk 1'/ 2 Teaspoons Salt 

1 Heaping Teaspoon Baking Powder 
Beat eggs thoroughly, add to balance and bake. 

POP-OVER ROLLS 

2 Cups Flour 3 Eggs 

1 Cup Milk Pinch, Salt and Baking Powder 

Put the eggs, salt and flour into a bowl; mix in the milk and pour into deep 
moulds, which are fully 2 inches deep; fill half full and bake in a hot oven 25 
minutes. 

OLD-FASHIONED GINGER BREAD 
4 Cups Flour % Cup Melted Butter 

1 Cup Sugar 1 Teaspoon Each of Ginger, Cinna- 

1 Cup Milk mon and Soda 
% Cup Molasses 2 Eggs 

Mix dry ingredients; add molasses, milk, eggs and melted butter; beat smooth 
and bake in a sheet for about 1 hour. 

GENUINE PARKER HOUSE ROLLS 
6 Cups Flour 1 Cake Fleischmann's Yeast 

3 Tablespoons Butter 1 Teaspoon Salt 

2 Cups Milk 1 Tablespoon Sugar 

2 Egg Whites 1/2 Cup Lukewarm Water 

Scald milk, add sugar, salt and butter; let it stand until lukewarm, then add 3 
cups flour; beat for 5 minutes; add the dissolved yeast cake and let stand until 
very light and frothy; then add remaining flour; let it raise again until it is 
twice its original bulk; place on your moulding board, knead lightly and roll into 
a sheet % inch thick; take a large biscuit cutter and cut the dough into rounds; 
brush with melted butter, fold over and press the edges together; place in a but- 
tered pan 1 inch apart; let them raise until very light; bake in hot oven 15 minutes. 

CREAM BISCUITS — BAKING POWDER 
1 Pint Flour 1 Teaspoon Salt 

3 Tablespoons Baking Powder Cream 

Sift together flour, salt and baking powder; moisten with cream as soft as can 
be handled; roll out on well-floured board; cut in small biscuits and place in a 
pan, brushing over with melted butter or cream before baking; have oven very 
hot and bake 10 or 15 minutes, according to size. For milk biscuits use 2 table- 
spoons shortening. 

15 
Use "Buckeye" Flavoring Extracts, Baking Powder and Spices for Best Results 

At Your Grocer's 

SPokane-2 




When— 
Hubby 

needs a new 
Suit— 

Why not see 



"AL FRIES" 



The TAILOR 



First 



He will make a better one for less money 



"It is Economy to Buy Good Tailored Suits'' 






209 Eagle Bldg., Corner Stevens and Riverside 

Second Floor 

Phone, Main 4999 



Al Makes Dandy Overcoats, Too 



9? 



16 



CUPID'S BOOK 

MUFFINS 
2 Cups Flour 1 Tablespoon Each of Sugar and 

1 Egg Melted Butter 

1 Cup Milk !4 Teaspoon Salt 
2'/ 2 Tablespoons Baking Powder 

Mix and sift dry ingredients; mix beaten egg and milk, add to flour; add melted 
butter and beat to a smooth batter; bake in buttered gem pans in moderate oven. 

KENTUCKY WAFFLES 

2 Pints Flour 1 Pint Sour Cream 

3 Eggs 2 Tablespoons Lard 
1 Cup Milk 1 Teaspoon Soda 

Beat eggs, yolks and white separately; add to yolks sifted flour and sour cream; 
stir well and make batter thin with milk; add melted lard, soda dissolved in a 
little cold milk and lastly whites of eggs; bake quickly in hot irons. 

DANDY GRIDDLE CAKES 
1 Pint Flour 3 Teaspoons Baking Powder 

1 Cup Milk Vz Teaspoon Sugar 

Vz Teaspoon Salt 
These are the best plain hot griddle cakes without eggs and are light, tender 
and healthful. Sift well together and add milk to make into a soft batter; bake 
immediately on hot griddle. Should be % inch thick when baked. Smother with 
butter and maple syrup or honey. 

GRIDDLE CAKES WITH EGGS 

2 Cups Flour Vz Teaspoon Salt 

1 Cup Milk 2 Teaspoons Baking Powder 

Mix well together, add eggs and sufficient milk to make a thin drop batter; 
bake at once on a hot, well-greased griddle; make them thin. 

CINNAMON BUNS 
Flour 2 Tablespoons Sugar 

'/4 Lb. Butter 1 Cake Fleischmann's Yeast 

1 Cup Milk 2 Eggs 

1 Cup Water Currants 

Scald milk, add butter, sugar and yeast cake (dissolved), egg well beaten, and 
sufficient flour to make a soft dough; knead lightly; put aside in a warm place; 
when very light, roll into a sheet, spread with butter and dust with sugar and 
sprinkle with currants; cut into buns; stand them in a greased pan and when very 
light bake in a moderate oven 45 minutes. 

QUICK COFFEE CAKE 
1 Pint Flour 3 Teaspoons Baking Powder 

1/3 Cup Sugar 3 Tablespoons Melted Lard 

Vz Cup Milk Vz Teaspoon Salt 

1 Egg Vz Teaspoon Cinnamon 

Sift together twice, the flour, salt, baking powder and cinnamon; mix to a soft 
dough with milk stirred into a well-beaten egg; add melted lard; spread in a shal- 
low pan, sprinkle with sugar mixed with cinnamon and bake in a moderate oven. 

FRITTER BATTER 

2 Cups Flour Vz Teaspoon Salt 
1 Cup Milk 1 Egg 

(For frying fish, vegetables or fruits) 

Mix the above to a smooth batter and coat the article for frying; if for fruit, 
add a little sugar. 

BREAD GRIDDLE CAKES 

1 Cup Flour V/z Cups Stale Bread Crumbs 

2 Eggs 3 Teaspoons Baking Powder 
V/z Cups Milk, Scalded Vz Tablespoon Sugar 

2 Tablespoons Melted Butter Vz Teaspoon Salt 

Pour milk over bread crumbs; add butter and soak for 15 minutes; add eggs, 
well beaten, sugar, salt and baking powder; mix and drop by spoonfuls on a hot, 
greased griddle; cook on one side; when puffed full of bubbles and cooked on 
edges, turn and cook other side; serve with butter and maple syrup. 

17 



We all love sunshine- 



and all will love 



Sunshine Marshmallows 

if once tried — 

as there is nothing just like them — they are 

simply delicious. 



Ask your dealer for them— and also try the 
receipts on page 106 



SUNSHINE 
CANDY COMPANY 



Makers of 

Sunshine 
Marshmallows 

and 

Big Chief Prize 

Popcorn 

"Both Home Products 
of Quality" 

SPOKANE, WASH. 




18 



CAKES 



—and 
How to Make Them 



BRIDE'S LOAF CAKE 
2 Cups Flour 1 Cup Cornstarch 

2 Cups Sugar 2 Teaspoons Baking Powder 

1 Cup Milk 1 Teaspoon Vanilla 
Vz Cup Butter 8 Egg Whites 

Sift all dry ingredients before measuring. Cream the butter and sugar well, 
then add whites of 2 eggs, unbeaten, and beat well; add the flavoring, then a 
little of the milk; sift in a little of the flour, the baking powder and corn starch; 
beat; then add a little more milk and flour until all is used; lastly, fold in lightly 
the whites of remaining 6 eggs, which have been beaten light and dry; bake 1 hour 
in a moderate oven and when cold ice with marshmallow icing. 

WEDDING CAKE 
4 Cups Flour 2 Teaspoons Cinnamon 

2 Cups Sugar 2 Teaspoons Mace 

2 Cups Butter 1 Teaspoon Nutmeg 

12 Eggs 1 Teaspoon Allspice 

1 Lemon Vz Teaspoon Cloves 

1 Wineglass Cider 4 Cups Raisins 

1 Lb. Citron 4 Cups Almonds 

Line pan with three thicknesses of paper; butter top layer; seed and chop rais- 
ins; wash and dry the currants; cut the citron in uniform slices, about % inch 
thick; blanch the almonds and chop fine; mix all the fruit, but the citron, with 
the dough; insert pieces of citron after dough is poured into pan. 

SPONGE CAKE 

2 Cups Flour 1 Teaspoon Baking Powder 
2 Cups Sugar 1 Teaspoon Lemon Extract 
4 Eggs Pinch Salt 

Beat eggs separately, then beat together slowly, sugar, flour, baking powder 
and salt, lastly 1 cup boiling water and extract; heat the pan. 

POUND CAKE 
4 Cups Flour 10 Eggs 

2 Cups Sugar 1 Wineglass Boiled Cider 

2 Cups Butter Citron and Almonds 

Cream the butter; add sugar, egg yolks, whites and flour; place currants into 
hi of the dough and almonds, blanched and pounded in rose water, into another 
part; leave the remainder plain; fill very small, round tins % full; into half of 
those containing the plain dough put small pieces of citron, three in each, in- 
serting the citron upright a little way into the dough; sift sugar over the tops of 
those containing the citron and almond before putting them into the oven; bake 
20 minutes; frost the plain and currant cakes. Pound Cake is lighter when baked 
in small cakes than in loaves. 

ANGEL CAKE 
1 Cup Flour Vz Teaspoon Cream of Tartar 

V/a, Cups Sugar 1 Teaspoon Vanilla Extract 

9 Eggs (Whites) 
Beat whites of eggs and cream of tartar till stiff; fold in sugar very lightly, 
also flour and flavoring; bake in ungreased pan. 

DEVIL CAKE 

1% Cups Flour, Sifted Vanilla Extract 

1 Cup Sugar 2 Teaspoons Baking Powder 

Vz Cup Milk % Cup Powdered Sugar 

Vz Cup Butter 3 Ounces Chocolate, Melted 

3 Eggs Vz Teaspoon Cinnamon 

Va Teaspoon Cloves 
Cream the butter and add the cup sugar; beat yolks, add powdered sugar and 
beat the two mixtures together; add chocolate, then flour, sifted 3 times with bak- 
ing powder, and spices; then milk, extract and whites of eggs; bake in two layers; 
put together with fruit icing; spread white icing above. 

19 



CUPID'S BOOK 

SUNSHINE CAKE 

2i/ 2 Cups Flour 2 Teaspoons Baking Powder 

V/z Cups Sugar 1 Teaspoon Lemon 

Vz Cup Butter 9 Egg Yolks 

1 Cup Water Milk 

Cream butter and sugar thoroughly; beat yolks and add; sift flour, then sift 
with baking powder 3 times and add alternately with milk to other ingredients; 
bake in slow oven 50 to 60 minutes. 

WHITE CAKE 

3 Cups Flour % Cup Butter 

1'/ 4 Cups Sugar 4 Egg Whites 

1 Cup Milk 3 Teaspoons Baking Powder 

1 Teaspoon Salt 
Cream butter and sugar; add milk alternately to flour, baking powder and salt, 
sifted thoroughly; add tgg whites or fold in last, stirring gently; any flavor to 

&Ult * FUDGE CAKE 

2 Cups Flour (heaping) Va Cup Chocolate 
1 Cup Sugar Va Cup Walnuts 

1 Cup Milk 2 Eggs 

Vz Cup Butter 2 Teaspoons Baking Powder 

Sugar 
Melt butter in pan over steam; cream sugar and butter together; add eggs, 
beating well, then milk; sift in flour, baking powder and chocolate; put in broken 
nuts; stir batter quickly; bake in well-greased cake tins. 

LADY BALTIMORE CAKE 

31/2 Cups Flour 1 Cup Butter 

2 Cups Sugar 3 Teaspoons Baking Powder 

1 Cup Milk 1 Teaspoon Rosewater 

6 Eggs 

Cream the butter and beat in the sugar gradually; sift together flour and bak- 
ing powder; add to butter and sugar alternately with milk and rose water; lastly, 
add tgg whites, beaten dry; bake in 3 layer cake pans; put layers together with 
the following frosting: 

3 Cups Sugar 1 Cup Chopped Raisins 

3 Eggs 1 Cup Chopped Nut Meats 

5 Figs, Cut in Thin Slices 1 Cup Boiling Water 

Stir sugar in water until dissolved, then let boil without stirring until syrup 
from a spoon will spin long thread; pour upon tgg whites, beaten dry, constantly, 
meanwhile continue beating until frosting is cold; add fruit and spread upon cake. 

BROWNSTONE CAKE 

2 Cups Flour 4 Eggs 

V/z Cups Sugar 3 Tablespoons Chocolate 

Vz Cup Milk 1 Teaspoon Baking Powder 

Vz Cup Butter Vanilla Extract 

Cream sugar with butter, add milk, chocolate dissolved in Vo. cup warm water, 
eggs, well beaten, baking powder and extract; bake in long pan; cover with fol- 
lowing frosting: 

2 Teacups Powdered Sugar 1 Egg 

Butter (size of egg) 1 Cup Finely Chopped Walnut Meats 

Cream sugar with butter; thin with cream; add beaten tgg white and walnuts. 

WHIPPED CREAM CAKE 
2 Cups Flour 1 Cup Corn Starch 

2 Cups Sugar 8 Eggs 

1 Cup Milk 2 Teaspoons Baking Powder 

Vz Cup Butter 1 Teaspoon Lemon Extract 

Sift all dry ingredients; cream sugar and butter well; add gradually tgg yolks, 
well beaten, beating all until very light and creamy, then add flavoring; mix flour, 
cornstarch -nd baking powder; alternate with milk; bake in well-buttered layer 
pans; when cold put between layers rich, dry whipped cream and use as icing, 
allowing 2 hours to harden. 

20 



CUPID'S BOOK 

LAYER CAKE 

1% Cups Flour 3 Eggs 

1 Cup Sugar 1 Teaspoon Vanilla 

Vz Cup Milk or Lemon Extract 

Cream butter in a large bowl; when creamy add gradually sugar, beating con- 
stantly; then add egg yolks, beaten very light, and milk; beat well; mix flour 
and baking powder; sift and add; beat 3 minutes and fold in egg whites, beaten 
stiff and dry; add flavoring before folding in egg whites; bake in 3 layer cake 
pans that have been well buttered and floured; when cooled, spread with boiled 
frosting and sprinkle tops and sides with almonds which have been blanched, 
shredded and delicately browned in oven. 

SWEETHEART FRUIT AND NUT CAKES 
V/ 2 Cups Flour 2 Eggs ! I 

1 Cup Sugar 2'/ 2 Teaspoons Baking Powder 

Vz Cup Milk 1 Cup Chopped Raisins 

Vz Cup Butter 1 Cup Chopped Nuts 

Cream the butter; beat in sugar, raisins, nuts, eggs beaten light, not separated, 
milk and flour sifted with baking powder; bake in small tins; decorate with boiled 
frosting, small red candies, chopped pistachio nuts (green) and red candle in 
holder. 

CHOCOLATE LAYER CAKE 

Vz Cup Flour 2 Teaspoons Baking Powder 

1 Cup Sugar 5 Eggs 

1 Cake Chocolate, Unsweetened 

Grate chocolate; add flour, baking powder and eggs beaten with sugar; beat 
all 15 minutes and bake in layers. 

Filling 

1 Cup Milk 1 Teaspoon Cornstarch, heaping 

Vz Cup Sugar 3 Eggs 

Butter, Size Cherry 2 Teaspoons Vanilla 
Mix cornstarch smooth in cup of milk; beat eggs separately; add yolks to cup 

of milk and extract; warm; add butter and sugar; stir in egg whites, beater 
when cool. 

MOCHA LAYER CAKE OR TARTS ' 

1 Cup Flour \/z Cup Butter 
Vz Cup Sugar 6 Eggs 

Put eggs and sugar in a bowl; place over pot of hot water and heat until warm; 
beat until cold; beat eggs and sugar until very light; add flour; mix until light, 
then add melted butter, mixing in lightly; pour into a round pan about 10 inches 
in diameter and bake in moderate oven about 25 minutes; when baked, take out 
and let cool, then cut into 3 layers, putting the following filling between layers. 

MOCHA BUTTER CREAM FILLING 

Work 6 ounces sweet butter until creamy; beat 4 egg whites to stiff froth; 
place 5 ounces sugar in small saucepan with a little water; let boil until sugar 
forms a soft ball when dropped into cold water; when sugar is cooked pour it 
slowly into egg whites, stirring briskly; when cool add butter and some coffee 
extract, working together a few minutes; spread between cake layers. 

CARAMEL CREAM CAKE 

2 Cups Flour 4 Egg Whites 

* Cup Sugar 2 Teaspoons Baking Powdfr 

Vz Cup Milk 1 Teaspoon Vanilla 

Vz Cup Butter 
Sift flour, adding baking powder; sift again 3 times; cream sugar and butter 

thoroughly; add flavor, then flour and milk alternately; lastly add the stiffly 

beaten egg whites; bake in two layers 25 to 30 minutes. 

CARAMEL FILLING 

1 Cup Sour Cream 1 Cup Nut Meats, Chopped 

1 Cup Sugar 
Cook together until it forms a soft ball when tried in cold water; take from 
fire and stir until cool. 

21 
Use "Buckeye" Flavoring Extracts, Baking Powder and Spices for Best Results 

At Your Grocer's 



CUPID'S BOOK 

DEVIL'S FOOD 
1 Cup Flour '/ 2 Cup Melted Butter 

1 Cup Light Brown Sugar Vz Teaspoon Soda 

Vz Cup Milk Cocoa to Color 

1 Egg 
Mix together, being careful not to get too thick. 

FRUIT CAKE 

4 Cups Flour !4 Lb. Butter 

Vz Cup Molasses 4 Teaspoons Baking Powder 

1 Cup Milk % Lb. Citron 

3 Eggs 2 Lbs. Raisins 

1 Lb. Brown Sugar i/ 2 Nutmeg, Grated 

2 Lbs. Currants i/ 2 Teaspoon Allspice 

Cream butter, sugar and eggs; add molasses and milk and 2 cups flour; mix 
fruit with 1 cup flour and add spices and flavorings; lastly add cup of flour, well 
sifted with baking powder; bake in slow oven. 

STRAWBERRY SHORTCAKE 
Wz Tablespoons Shortening i/ 2 Teaspoon Salt 

1 Cup Milk ' strawberries 

2 Cups Flour 4 Teaspoons Baking Powder 

Mix flour, baking powder and salt and sift; into this mix well with knife or 
fingers the shortening; add milk, mixing with knife; toss the dough on a floured 
board, pat and divide dough in half; roll each half out to fit pan; place in two 
buttered pans and bake 15 minutes in hot oven; spread strawberries on top and 
between the two cakes; serve with whipped or plain cream. Any kind of berries 
or fruits may be used in the same way. 

CHRISTMAS NOVELTY 
1 Cup Sugar 2'/ 2 Teaspoons Baking Powder 

>4 Cup Butter y 2 Cup Grapefruit Juice 

V* Teaspoon Soda 1/3 Cup Grapefruit Pulp 

1%. Cups Flour 
Cream the butter, adding sugar gradually, beating all the time; add eggs, well 
beaten till light, then fruit juice, then flour sifted with baking powder and soda; 
beat well and then fold in fruit pulp, cut in small pieces; bake; when cool, split 
and fill with the following: Yolks of 3 eggs, beaten till thick, and 1 cup sugar, 
added gradually; add % cup grape fruit juice and stir in grated rind of 1 lemon 
and 1 tablespoon butter; cook until thick over hot water and cool before spreading; 
cut cake in small squares; frost with 2 tablespoons grape fruit juice and 1 table- 
spoon lemon juice made thick enough to spread with powdered sugar; before the 
frosting is firm, place a little tree, cut out of citron, in the center and drip bits 
of frosting, colored red, on the branches. 

TRUE LOVERS' KNOTS 

5 Cups Flour 1 Teaspoon Salt 
1 Cup Sugar 1 Egg 

% Cup Shortening 1 Teaspoon Vanilla, or 

1 Tablespoon Vinegar (Strong) V* Teaspoon Mace, as Preferred 
Cream shortening; add gradually sugar, then eggs, beaten very light, and V 2 

cup water, with vinegar added; sift flour with ^4 teaspoon mace and salt, unless 
butter is used; then use Vi teaspoon; when well mixed knead briskly on moulding 
board for 1 minute; cut off small piece of dough, roll with hands until size of 
lead pencil and 5 inches long; form this into ring, joining ends neatly; roll a 
second piece, loop into first ring, join as before; this forms a "true lovers' knot"; 
bake in very moderate oven till delicate brown; when cool cover with an orange 
icing made of grated rind of 1 large orange, soaked in 3 tablespoons cool water Vi 
hour and wrung through a piece of cheese cloth and made just stiff enough with 
powdered sugar to cover knots smoothly. 

APPLE CAKE 

2 Cups Flour 4 Sour Apples 

2 Tablespoons Butter 2 Teaspoons Baking Powder 

1 Cup Milk 1 Teaspoon Salt 

Sift together flour, baking powder and salt; cut in butter until it is a fine 

oowder; add milk and beaten egg; turn out on shallow, greased pan; pare, quarter 

and cut apples in thin slices; press sharp edges into dough; arrange in rows; 
sprinkle with sugar and cinnamon; bake about Vi hour. 

22 



CUPID'S BOOK 

DOUGHNUTS 

4 Cups Flour 2 Tablespoons Melted Butter 
1 Cup Sugar Vz Teaspoon Salt 

Vz Cup Milk 2 Eggs 

3 Teaspoons Baking Powder Vanilla or Cinnamon 

Mix flour, baking powder and salt; sift 3 times; rub sugar and butter together; 
add well-beaten eggs, then flour and milk alternately and flavor; turn out on a 
well-floured board and roll out Y2 inch thick; cut with doughnut cutter and fry in 
boiling fat. 

MAMMY BELDEN CAKE 
Zy 2 Cups Flour % Cup Butter 

1 Cup Sugar 4 Eggs 

V/z Cups Milk 2 Teaspoons Baking Powder 

Cream sugar with butter; add milk, egg yolks and flour; beat fully 20 minutes, 
then add baking powder, egg whites and flavor. Do not beat; fold in. Bake 40 
minutes as a whole or in layers. 

SUSIE'S DREAM CAKE 

3'/ 2 Cups Flour 2 Eggs (Beaten Separate or To- 

1 Pint Milk gether) 

% Cup Butter 1 Teaspoon Baking Powder 

2 Cups Sugar 

Sift flour and baking powder together 3 times: add other ingredients; bake in 
layers. 

KENTUCKY JAM CAKE 

3'/ 2 Cups Flour Vz Teaspoon Soda 

1 Cup Sugar J/2 Teaspoon Each Cinnamon, 

1 Cup Butter Cloves and Allspice 

3 Eggs, Beaten Separately 1 Cup Blackberry Jam 

5 Tablespoons Sour Cream 

Cream together butter and sugar; add eggs and soda, dissolved in the sour 
cream; then add other ingredients and bake. 

LOAF CAKE 
2'/ 2 Cups Flour 2 Eggs, Well Beaten 

1/2 Cup Milk 1 Teaspoon Cream of Tartar 

% Cup Butter Vz Teaspoon Soda 

1 Cup Raisins, Seeded 1 Nutmeg, Grated 

V/z Cups Sugar 
Cream together the butter and sugar; add eggs, alternate with flour, sifted, 
and milk, sifted cream of tartar and soda, adding spices and raisins; flour well. — 

WHITE CAKE 

1 Cup Flour 2 Egg Whites, Well Beaten 

2/3 Cup Milk 3 Teaspoons Baking Powder 

1 Heaping Tablespoon Butter 1 Teaspoon Vanilla 
Vz Cup Cornstarch 
Cream together butter and sugar; add egg whites; mix well; add baking powder 

and mix again; add other ingredients; bake in square tin. With chocolate frost- 
ing this is delicious. 

LIGHTNING CAKE 

1 Cup Flour, Heaping 1 Teaspoon Baking Powder, 

14 Cup Butter Heaping 

Vz Cup Milk 2/3 Cup Sugar 
1 Egg 

Sift flour, baking powder, sugar and pinch salt together; drop the egg into 
butter, slightly melted, and add milk and beat; add other ingredients; bake in 2 
layers or as cup cake. 

DATE CAKE 
4 egg yolks; beat well 1 tablespoon flour (heaping) 

1 cup sugar 1 teaspoon baking powder 

1 cup chopped dates (fine) Add V2 teaspoon salt 

1 cup chopped nuts (fine) Add beaten whites 

Beat and add to above 
Two layers. Cover with cream and lady fingers. Bake Vi hour in slow oven. 

23 

Use "Buckeye" Flavoring Extracts, Baking Powder and Spices for Best Results 

At Your Grocer's 



CUPID'S BOOK 

GINGER SNAPS 
1 Cup Flour 2 Teaspoons Soda 

1 Cup Molasses 1 Teaspoon Ginger, Heaping 

1 Cup Sugar 2 Eggs 

1 Cup Butter 

Heat the sugar, molasses and butter to boiling point; take from stove and 
stir in the flour while hot; let cool; add soda, dissolved in a little vinegar; add 
eggs; ginger in the flour; beat all the rest; knead enough flour in to roll out nicely. 

JUMBLES 

2 Cups Flour l A Teaspoon Nutmeg 

Vz Cup Butter Vz Teaspoon Vanilla or Lemon 

Vz Cup Sugar 3 Eggs 

Work butter into flour, sugar and eggs, well beaten; add nutmeg, vanilla or 
lemon extract; mix well; roll out to the thickness of about Vs inch thick; sprinkle 
powdered sugar over the dough; cut it with a biscuit or cake cutter, so that there 
will be a hole in center; lay them on flat tin plates and bake 10 minutes in 
quick oven. 

BILLY GOAT COOKIES 

3 Cups Flour 1 Cup Raisins, chopped fine 

1 Cup Butter 1 Cup Walnuts, chopped fine 

V/ 2 Cups Brown Sugar 1 Teaspoon Soda (scant), sifted in 

3 Eggs flour 
14 Cup Water (scant) 

PLAIN COOKIES 

2|/ 2 Cups Flour % Cup Butter 

1'/ 2 Cups Sugar 2 Teaspoons Baking Powder 

1 Tablespoon Milk 3 Eggs 

Cream butter and sugar; add beaten eggs, sifted flour with baking powder and 
milk; roll out thin and cut in circles. 

EXCELSIOR COOKIES 
Flour 2 Cups Sugar 

1 Cup Milk 3 Eggs 

1 Cup Butter 2 Teaspoons Baking Powder 
Cream together, adding enough flour to make a soft dough; roll thin, sprinkle 

with sugar and bake. 

COCOANUT DROP COOKIES 

2 Cups Flour 1 Teaspoon Soda 

1 Cup Brown Sugar 1 Teaspoon Baking Powder 

1/2 Cup Milk, Sour 1 Box ('/ 4 Lb.) Cocoanut 

Mix well and drop from spoon on greased pans. 

MOLASSES COOKIES 
Flour 2 Ounces Soda 

1 Quart Molasses 1 Gill Water 

1 Cup Lard 

Put molasses, water, soda and lard in a bowl; mix them together; add flour 
enough to make a nice dough suitable to roll out and cut; wash with milk or 
water on top. 

Molasses Cookies are very common, but they are not easy to make, the reason 
being that there is no rule you can work by which will answer in all cases. All 
molasses does not work alike. Some kinds will bear more water than others, 
and the weather has to be taken into consideration. You can use more water in 
cold weather than in warm, at times % water, Vi molasses. Be very careful and 
not get dough too stiff and do not work more than necessary to mix. 

SHAMROCKS 

2'/ 2 Cups Flour 2 Teaspoons Ginger 

1 Cup Sugar V/ 2 Teaspoons Baking Powder 

Vz Cup Milk 1 Teaspoon Salt 

1/3 Cup Shortening 1 Egg 

Cream shortening; add sugar gradually, then egg, well beaten, then the milk; 
mix flour, baking powder, salt and ginger and sift; chill thoroughly and roll out 
rather thick; cut with a cutter shaped to represent a three-leaved clover; bake in 
rather quick oven; cool and cover with frosting colored green, or cover with 
shredded cocoanut colored green; if cocoanut is used, brush over cookies very 
lightly with white of egg diluted with 1 tablespoon cold water and beaten together; 
to color cocoanut, dilute green coloring with a little water, turn into shallow dish, 
add cocoanut and stir with silver fork until cocoanut is evenly colored; dry 
before using. 

24 



Ghirardelli's 
Ground Chocolate 




In Every Home For 
Drinking and Desserts 



25 



Ghirardelli's Brown Stone Front Cake 

Three-fourths cup Ghirardelli's Ground Chocolate, % cup sweet 
milk, 2/3 cup brown sugar, yolk of 1 egg. Beat all together; soft 
boil until like a custard; set to cool. This is the cream: Take 1 
cup brown sugar; Y2 cup butter; Y2 cup sweet milk; 2 eggs; 2 cups 
sifted flour. After the cake is mixed then stir in the above cream; 
then add 1 teaspoon soda dissolved in a little warm water; spread 
white boiled icing over and between the layers. 

Chocolate Spanish Cream 

Take IY2 tablespoons gelatine, 2 eggs, IY2 teaspoons vanilla, 
2% cups milk, 4 tablespoons sugar, 3 tablespoons Ghirardelli's 
Ground Chocolate. Soak gelatine in milk; put on fire and stir 
until dissolved; add yolks of eggs, well beaten with two table- 
spoons of sugar; stir chocolate to smooth paste with a little cold 
water; add to milk; stir until it comes to boiling point; remove 
from stove; have whites of eggs beaten with 2 tablespoons of sugar; 
add whites, stirring briskly. Flavor and turn into mould. Serve 
with whipped cream or sauce. 

Devil Cake — All Chocolate 

Take 1 cup sugar, butter size of an egg; cream these ingre- 
dients together; 1 cup of sour milk, 1 egg. Sift 1 cup of flour, 1 
teaspoon of soda and 3 tablespoons of Ghirardelli's Ground Choco- 
late together four or five times; add the creamed butter and sugar, 
then the egg, well beaten, and the sour milk; stir well; bake in a 
moderate oven. When cool, cover with chocolate frosting. 

Ghirardelli's Chocolate Fudge 

Four rounded tablespoons of D. Ghirardelli's Ground Choco- 
late, 2 cups sugar, 1 cup milk, butter the size of a* small hen's 
egg, 1 teaspoon vanilla, 2 drops lemon extract. Boil sugar, butter 
and milk until thick and add chocolate; cook until thread spins 
when tried; then add extract and take from fire, stirring until 
nearly cold or becomes sugary. Turn on a well-buttered dish and 
cut in squares. 

Chocolate Bread Pudding 

Take 2 large cups of crumbled bread; let this stand Y2 hour, 
covered with 3 cups of boiling milk; beat 2 eggs and add Y2 cup 
sugar and 4 tablespoons of Ghirardelli's Ground Chocolate, butter 
the size of walnut and pinch of salt; add this to milk and bread 
crumbs; flavor with vanilla extract and bake 1 hour in a covered 
buttered dish, in a medium oven. Serve with hard sauce, whipped 
cream or vanilla sauce. 

Chocolate Sauce 

One egg, 1 cup milk, 1 teaspoon cornstarch, V2 cup sugar, 2 
teaspoons Ghirardelli's Ground Chocolate, 1 teaspoon vanilla. 
Scald milk and add the cornstarch, which has been dissolved in a 
little of the cold milk; beat egg and add to the mixture with the 
sugar, chocolate and vanilla. 



Chocolate Icing 



Place 2 ounces of Ghirardelli's Ground Chocolate in an enam- 
eled saucepan with a quarter pint of boiling water; set on the 
stove for a few minutes, stirring constantly; then remove, add 
Y2 pound of pulverized sugar and stir again until perfectly smooth. 



26 



Fillings and Icings 



CHOCOLATE FILLING 

114 Squares Chocolate 1 Cup Sugar 

3 Tablespoons Milk Vz Teaspoon Vanilla 

Melt chocolate; add Vi cup sugar and milk; stir until smooth; add remainder 
of sugar; cook over hot water 20 minutes, then add vanilla. 

CARAMEL FILLING 
1 Lb. Brown Sugar 2 Eggs 

1 Cup Milk Vanilla 

Boil sugar and milk until it will harden when dropped into cold water; beat 
yolks of eggs and whites separately, then combine them; gradually pour the hot 
syrup over them, beating all the time; add flavoring and beat until cool and 
quite thick. 

WHIPPED CREAM FILLING 
% Cup Cream 1 Egg White 

V* Cup Powdered Sugar "^Teaspoon Vanilla 

Set medium-sized bowl in pan of crushed ice, to which water has been added; 
olace cream in bowl and beat until stiff with wire whip or, if possible, use patent 
cream whipper; whip up well that air bubbles may not be too large; add sugar, 
egg white, beaten stiff, and vanilla; keep cool. 

CUPID'S FILLING 

2 Cups Sugar, Powdered % Cup Butter 

Beat thoroughly; use strong, black coffee for Mocha Cake. Use chocolate ii 
desired. 

BOILED NUT OR FRUIT FROSTING 
Vz Cup Fruit (Chopped Fine) Vz Cup Nuts (Chopped Fine) 

You may use walnuts, almonds, pecans, hickory or hazel nuts, figs, dates, rais- 
ins or selected prunes. Add to frosting separately or in combination. 

BOILED CHOCOLATE FROSTING 
2 Ounces Chocolate Vanilla 

• z Cup Milk Powdered Sugar 

2 Egg Whites 

Boil chocolate and cream; add vanilla when cool; beat whites to stiff froth; 
add the sugar until stiff enough to cut; combine the two mixtures; beat and spread. 

MARSHMALLOW FROSTING 
Vz Lb. Marshmallows 1 Teaspoon Vanilla 

Va Cup Milk or Water 2 Egg Whites 

Break marshmallows in pieces; add milk or water; put in double boiler over 
boiling water; stir until melted; take from fire and while hot pour into the well- 
beaten egg whites; add vanilla. 

BOILED ICING 
1 Cup Sugar 1 Teaspoon Flavoring 

1/3 Cup Water 1 Egg White (Large) 

Va Teaspoon Cream of Tartar 

Beat egg white until frothy; add cream of tartar; beat until stiff and dry; 
make syrup of sugar and water; when it has reached the honey stage, or drops 
heavily from spoon, add 5 tablespoons slowly to egg, beating in well; then cook 
remainder of syrup until it threads and pour over egg, beating thoroughly; add 
flavoring and beat until cool enough to spread. 

MOCHA ICING 
1 Cup Powdered Sugar V* Teaspoon Vanilla 

1 Teaspoon Cocoa About 2 Tablespoons Cold Cof- 

2 Tablespoons Butter fee — Very Strong 

Cream butter; add sugar and cocoa gradually; add vanilla, then coffee, gradually 
until mixture is smooth, creamy and thick enough to spread. 

ICING FOR WHITE CAKE 
V/ z Cups Sugar 2 Egg Whites 

1 Cup Water 
Boil sugar and water until it threads well; pour over the egg whites, well 
beaten, beating all the time; when partly cool add V2 cup chopped pineapple. 

27 



PIES 



PIE PASTE 

Sift together dry ingredients thoroughly; work in lard with knife or rounding 
edge of a tablespoon or spatula; moisten to a dough with cold water; put lightly 
on floured board and roll thin ready for use. 

APPLE PIE 
About 4 Tart Apples Vz Cup Sugar 

Peel, core and slice apples thin; line pie pan with paste; put in apples, sugar 
and a little water; wet edges, cover with paste rolled out very thin; bake in 
moderate, steady oven until apples are cooked. 

Note. — Any green fruit pies can be made in similar manner to above. 
Note. — To prevent juice of pies boiling out into over wet the edges when upper 
and lower crusts are joined with thin paste made of 1 teaspoon flour and 3 of 
water, instead of clear water. Adding cinnamon and butter will improve. 

LEMON PIE 
Vz Cup Sugar 2 Eggs 

2»/ 2 Cups Milk 1 Lemon 

V/z Tablespoons Cornstarch 

Mix cornstarch with a little milk; heat balance of milk and when it boils stir in 
cornstarch and boil 1 minute; let cool and add egg yolks, 2 heaping tablespoons sugar 
and grated rind and juice of lemon, all well beaten together; use a deep pie pan lined 
with paste and fill with mixture; bake slowly % hour; beat the egg whites to stiff 
froth and gradually beat in remainder of sugar; cover pie with this and brown 
slowly. 

LEMON CREAM PIE 
5 Teaspoons Flour V/z Cups Boiling Water 

1 Cup Sugar 1 Lemon 

4 Eggs 
Beat egg yolks and whites separately; add to yolks the sugar, flour, lemon 
juice and grated rind and lastly boiling water; cook in double boiler and when it 
begins to thicken add % of beaten egg whites; stir this thoroughly and cook it 
until thick as desired; use remainder of egg whites for meringue to top off pie; 
after custard has cooled fill a baked shell of pie paste, pile meringue on top 
and bake in a very slow oven until meringue is brown. 

CUSTARD PIE 
1/3 Cup Flour or Conrstarch 6 Eggs 

3 Cups Milk V/z Cups Sugar 

1 Cup Butter 

Mix and flavor to taste; sufficient for 3 pies; bake pie crust first. 

COCOANUT PIE 

1 Cup Butter Vz Cocoanut (Grated) 

2 Cups Powdered Sugar 6 Eggs 

Cream butter with sugar; beat in cocoanut; fold in lightly the stiffened egg 
whites; turn into a deep pie pan lined with puff paste; bake in quick oven. Eat 
cold with powdered sugar and cream. 

PUMPKIN PIE 
Vz Cup Sugar V* Teaspoon Allspice 

V/z Cups Milk Va Teaspoon Cloves 

1 Cup Stewed Pumpkin 2 Eggs 
Va Teaspoon Ginger 

Beat eggs; add sugar, pumpkin and spices; beat thoroughly; then add milk and 
mix thoroughly; bake in pie paste crust. 

SQUASH PIE 

2 Cups Squash 1 Teaspoon Cinnamon 
V/z Cups Milk Vz Tablespoon Ginger 

1 Tablespoon Melted Butter 2 Tablespoons Molasses 

1 Cup Brown Sugar 2 Eggs 

Mix in order given; strain into a deep plate lined with paste. 

28 



CUPID'S BOOK 

RAISIN PIE 

1 Cup Seeded Raisins 1 Tablespoon Sugar 

1 Tablespoon Butter 1 Teaspoon Vinegar 

Cook raisins in enough cold water for 1 pie; add butter; mix all together; bake 
in two crusts. 

RHUBARB PIE 

1 Teaspoon Flour 1 Cup Stewed Rhubarb 

1 Cup Sugar 1 Egg and Pinch Salt 

Stir flour into other ingredients; bake without top crust and frost. 

BERRY PIE 

2 Boxes Berries 1 Cup Cream (Small) 
V/ 2 Cups Powdered Sugar Vz Lemon 

Wash berires; add 1 cup sugar; let stand at least 2 hours in ice box, then put 
through cheese cloth; add balance of sugar, 1 cup water, juice of % lemon and 
cream; freeze. This mixture makes about a quart. 

Grate the rind of lemons into a bowl and squeeze in the juice; make a 
boiling syrup of sugar and half water and pour it hot on the lemon rind and 
juice; let it remain until cold, then add rest of water; strain the lemonade into 
a freezer and freeze as usual and at last add whites whipped to a firm froth; 
beat and freeze again. The scalding draws the flavor from the lemons. It should 
never be boiled and fewer lemons used when they are very large. This ice is 
perfectly white. 

Note. — Loganberry, raspberry, blackberry, gooseberry, elderberry or grape pie 
may be made as above, using more sugar with some. 

MINCE MEAT (ENGLISH) 
2 Lbs. Boiled Beef 2 Lbs. Sugar 

2 Lbs. Beef Suet 2 Ounces Ground Spices (equal 

2 Lbs. Currants proportions of Nutmeg, Cloves 

2 Lbs. Raisins and Cinnamon) 

1 Lb. Citron Grated Rind of 6 Oranges 

Vz Lb. Candied Lemon 6 Lemons 

Vz Lb. Orange Peel V/ 2 Pints Boiled Cider or Strong 

3 Lbs. Peeled Apples Grape Juice 

Thoroughly clean currants and raisins; cut citron in small pieces; remove skin 
from and cut suet up fine; place these with the lemon and orange peel, currants, 
raisins and candied lemons in an earthen jar; chop apples and add; trim meat 
lean and clear (see that it weighs 2 lbs. when trimmed); chop this and add to 
rest; then add sugar and spice; mix all together; then add cider or grape juice 
and cover jar; over it place a cloth and tie firmly to exclude the air and prevent 
evaporation. The mincemeat should be kept in a cold place. It is better to stand 
a week after being made. 




29 

Use "Buckeye" Flavoring Extracts, Baking Powder and Spices for Best Results 

At Your Grocer's 



Fuel 



Is one of the first things you will need in your 

new home 



Phone 



Max. 34 



And we will supply you with the best grades of either COAL 
or WOOD at prices that are reasonable. Prompt delivery to 
any part of city. 

We would be glad to make your acquaintance and discuss with 
you the most economical fuel for your needs* 



also for 



Ice 



Phone 

Max. 34 

Prompt and Regular Service by Courteous Drivers 

|j j^e. 7 _ - 

E. P. TWOHY, President C. A. GRAHAM, Manager 

ADDRESS 
Two Blocks East of North End of Division Street Bridge 




30 



Start With 

Carnation ! 



Use this rich milk in all your recipes and you will enjoy 
genuine culinary satisfaction and success. The "Carnation habit" 
will prove, as years roll on, one of the happiest features of your 
married life. 

Carnation is economical. But, economy alone is not a de- 
sirable guide. You must have quality. Carnation quality is 
famous — has been famous for years. 

Carnation is easy to cook with. You merely need to bear in 
mind to dilute it with water as directed, because Carnation is 
twice as rich as ordinary milk. 

If you have not received your copy of Mrs. Mary Blake's Cooking 
Lessons (which we sent to you with our compliments) please let us 
know. We want you to ha^ve for your own this interesting, helpful 
scries which long-experienced cooks have found valuable. 

On the reverse page are some plain recipes you will find good. 
But, remember, Carnation is better than ordinary milk in any recipe. 
Always use it. 

When you order butter and eggs from your grocer to make cake. 
tell him to send a good supply of Carnation, too. It is the valued 
friend of thousands of housewives. Make it your friend right from 
the start. 



Carnation Milk Products Co., Stuart Bldg., Seattle 



Carnation mm Milk 




'From Contented Cows" J^womo Jn Made in I A. 



46a 



CUPID'S BOOK 

Delicious Milk Dishes Every Bride Should Know! 

CREAM OF TOMATO SOUP 

2 Teaspoons Sugar 2 Cloves 

14 Teaspoon Soda 1 Teaspoon Salt 

1 Slice Onion 1 Cup Water 

1'/2 Cups Water 4 Tablespoons Flour 

4 Tablespoons Butter 1/8 Teaspoon Pepper 

1 Cup Carnation Milk 6 Pepper Corns 

Vz Can Tomato (2 Cups) Bit of Bay Leaf 

Cook tomatoes slowly for twenty minutes, \Vz cups of water, seasonings and sugar; 
strain; add salt and soda; melt butter; add flour, stirring constantly; add Carnation milk 
diluted with one cup of water; cook until thickened, stirring constantly; combine with the 
strained tomatoes, adding the tomatoes to the milk; serve at once. This recipe serves 
sjx people. 

CREAMED CHIPPED BEEF 
} A Teaspoon Salt 1 Cup Water 

2 Tablespoons Butter 2 Tablespoons Flour 
1/3 Cup Carnation Milk l A Teaspoon Pepper 

•/ 4 Lb. Chipped Beef 
Melt butter; add flour, stirring constantly until thoroughly blended; add the liquid, 
gait and pepper; let boil until thickened, stirring occasionally; add beef and continue 
cooking until beef is heated through; turn onto a hot platter and garnish with toast 
points. This recipe will serve four people. 

THIN WHITE SAUCE 
. 2 Tablespoons Flour Vz Teaspoon Salt 

2 Tablespoons Butter or Substitute 2/3 Cup Water 

1/3 Cup Carnation Milk 
Melt butter or butter substitute, add flour and stir until thoroughly mixed; add the 
milk and cook about five minutes or until the mixture thickens, and add seasonings. This 
recipe makes one cup of sauce. 

SCALLOPED POTATOES 

1 Tablespoon Salt 1 1/3 Cups Water 

4 Medium Sized Potatoes 2/3 Cup Carnation Milk 

Vz Tablespoon Butter 
Wash, pare and cut potatoes in thin slices; put a layer in buttered baking dish, 
eprinkle with salt and dredge with a small amount of flour. Add milk and butter and 
hake until potatoes are soft. This recipe serves six people. 

CARNATION MILK OMELET 
4 Eggs 1 Teaspoon Baking Powder 

4 Teaspoons Cornstarch 1 Teaspoon Salt 

1 Cup Carnation Milk Mixed with 4 Tablespoons Water 

Beat egg yolks until thick and lemon colored; mix cornstarch and salt, and add grad- 
ually the cold milk, then add to beaten yolks; beat egg whites stiff and add the baking 
powder, then cut and fold in the first mixture; butter sides and bottom of heated omelet 
pan; turn in mixture, place on range where it will cook slowly; when brown on bottom 
put in oven to finish cooking the top; the omelet is cooked when firm to the touch. This 
recipe serves four to six people. 

CARNATION BISCUIT 

2 Cups Flour Vz Teaspoon Salt 
4 Teaspoons Baking Powder Vz Cup Water 

2 Tablespoons Butter or Substitute V* Cup Carnation Milk 

Sift dry ingredients together; mix in butter or substitute with knife or fingers; add 
liquid, mixing to a soft dough; roll lightly to one-half inch in thickness, cut and bake in 
hot oven about 15 minutes. This recipe makes about eight biscuits. 

GINGERBREAD 

6 Tablespoons Water Va Teaspoon Salt 

2i/4 Cups Flour 3 A Teaspoon Soda 

1 Cup Molasses 1'/4 Teaspoons Ginger 

2 Tablespoons Carnation Milk '/ 4 Cup Butter or Lard 

Sift dry ingredients together; add liquid to molasses; combine mixtures, add short- 
ening and beet weD; pour into oiled shallow pan and bake in moderately hot oven about 
25 minutes. 

CARNATION COCOA 
4 Teaspoons Cocoa 3 Cups Boiling Water 

6 Teaspoons Sugar 1 Cup Carnation Milk 

Vz Teaspoon Salt 
Mix cocoa and sugar in a cup; have water boiling; heat cocoa pot by allowing hot 
water to stand in it for a few minutes; heat Carnation milk by standing cup of Carna- 
tion milk in basin of hot water for five minutes or more. Pour a little boiling water into 
cup of cocoa and sugar to dissolve them. Pour into cocoa pot, add remainder of water* 
boiling hot, then the hot Carnation milk and salt; serve at once. Makes four cups. 

CARNATION PUMPKIN PIE 

Vz Teaspoon Ginger 2 Eggs 

2/3 Cup Brown Sugar Vz Teaspoon Salt 

1 Tablespoon Cornstarch 1 Cup Water 

V/z Cups Cooked and Strained 1 Teaspoon Cinnamon 

Pumpkin 1 Cup Carnation Milk 

Mix in order given and bake in one crust until firm. This recipe makes one pie. 

46b 



ICE CREAM - ICES- SHERBETS 



STRAIGHT ICE CREAM 

2 Quarts Milk 1 Tablespoon Vanilla or 

3 Cups Sugar Lemon Extract 

Stir together and freeze, allowing plenty of room in freezer for expansion. 

VANILLA ICE CREAM 

4 Cups Milk 1 Tablespoon Vanilla or 
1'/ 2 Cups Sugar Lemon Extract 

4 Eggs 

Prepare and cook ingredients in the same general way as given in the follow- 
ing recipe: 

NEW YORK ICE CREAM 

5 Cups Milk 1 Tablespoon Vanilla or 
1 Cup Sugar Lemon Extract 

4 Egg Yolks 1 Pinch Salt 

1 Tablespoon Gelatine 
Make a custard of milk, sugar, eggs and salt; bring to a boil; remove from 
fire and add gelatine, melted in a little warm water; cool, strain and flavor; whip 
the cream; add it to custard and freeze after it has become cold. 

CARAMEL ICE CREAM 
1 Cup Sugar 1 Cup Boiling Water 

1 Quart Cream Vanilla 

Melt Vi cup sugar in frying pan and when brown add the water; let simmer 10 
minutes; strain; add cream and % cup sugar; flavor and freeze. 

CHOCOLATE ICE CREAM 

2 Squares Chocolate 2 Pints Milk 

3 Cups Sugar 2 Pints Water 

1/2 Pint Milk 1 Tablespoon Gelatine 

Vz Pint Water (Hot) 

Dissolve chocolate in 2 tablespoons boiling water; add this with the sugar to 
the hot milk; boil until it foams, stirring, as it burns quickly; add the 2 pints 
milk and water; when just lukewarm remove from fire and stir in quickly the gela- 
tine, dissolved in warm water; let stand in cool place until set firm and cool, then 
freeze. 

ORANGE ICE 
7 Oranges 4 Egg Whites 

2 Lemons 2'/ 2 Pints Sugar 

Boil sugar in 2Y2 quarts water about 15 or 20 minutes; cool; add strained 
juice and when almost frozen add beaten egg whites and freeze. This will make 
about 5 quarts of ice. Serve in sherbet glasses or orange cups. 

LEMON SHERBET 

1 Pint Lemon Juice 2 Ounces Gelatine 
l / 2 Glass Orange Juice 2 Cups Sugar 

Soak gelatine over night in % pint water; in the morning add 3 quarts of 
water and let it come to a boiling point; strain fruit juice, add sugar (to taste) 
and freeze. 

LEMON MILK SHERBET 

2 Pints Milk Juice of 3 Lemons 

2 Cups Sugar 

Dissolve sugar with milk; add lemon juice slowly and freeze. 

FRUIT SHERBET 

3 Lemons 2'/ 4 Cups Sugar 
1 Orange 1 Egg White 
Vz Cup Pineapple (Shredded) 1 Quart Water 

Boil water and several slices of lemon and orange peel 10 minutes; cool; add 
juice and pineapple; freeze; when almost frozen add egg white, beaten. 

31 

Spokane-3 



BRASSIERES 




HOSIERY 



THE GOSSARD SHOP 



Hazel Neely Pratt 



"Mavis" Custom Made Back Lace Corsets 



NORTH 

6 

WALL 

ST. 




Spokane, 
Wash. 



32 



PUDDINGS 



1 



2 Cups Flour 




Vz Cup Citron 




Vz Cup Milk 




</ 2 Cup Orange 


Marmelade 


4 Eggs 




V/z Cups Sugar 




1'/ 2 Cups Coffee 


(Liquid) 


V/z Cups Grated 


Bread 



COTTAGE PUDDING 
2 Cups Flour Va Cup Butter 

!/ 2 Cup Sugar 3 Tablespoons Baking Powder 

1 Cup Milk Vz Teaspoon Salt 

1 Egg, Well Beaten 
Cream the butter; add gradually sugar and egg; stir together thoroughly the 
flour, baking powder and salt and add alternately with milk to first mixture; 
bake in moderate oven 35 minutes; serve with vanilla or hard sauce, crushed ber- 
ries, juicy fruits, jellies or preserves. 

COCOANUT PUDDING 
Vz Cocoanut Vz Cup Sugar 

Va Loaf Bakers' Bread 1 Cup Butter 

1 Pint Milk 3 Eggs 

Grate cocoanut; stew slowly in milk; pour this on bread; when cool add sugar 
and butter beaten to a cream, then add eggs and bake. Bread Pudding— Leave out 
cocoanut. 

PLUM PUDDING 

V/z Cups Suet, Chopped Very Fine 

V/z Cups Raisins (Seeded) 

V/z Cups Currants (Mashed and 

Picked) 
1 Teaspoon Baking Powder 
1 Teaspoon Cinnamon 
1 Teaspoon Each Cloves and 
Nutmeg 
Mix all together in large bowl; put in well-buttered mould; set in saucepan 
with boiling water to reach half way up its sides; now steam 3 or 4 hours; turn 
out carefully on dish and serve with cider or hard sauce. 

PRUNE WHIP 
Vz Lb. Prunes 2 Eggs 

Va Cup Sugar i/ 2 Tablespoon Lemon Juice 

Wash prunes and soak over night; cook in same water until quite soft; remove 
stones and press prunes through a potato masher; add sugar and cook 5 minutes; 
beat egg whites to very stiff froth; add this, with lemon juice, to prune pulp, 
stirring in lightly with a fork; put all in a buttered shallow dish and bake 20 
minutes in a slow oven; serve with cream or custard made from egg yolks. 

BERRY ROLL 
1 Pint Flour 1 Teaspoon Baking Powder 

1 Teaspoon Butter Va Teaspoon Salt 

3/a Cup Milk Berries 

Sift flour with baking powder; mix into this the butter and salt; add milk and 
roll out 1/3 inch thick; spread plentifullv with any kind of berries; sift sugar over 
and roll; bake % hour and serve hot with sauce .(see page 35). 

NEWLYWEDS' APPLE DUMPLINGS 
1 Cup Sugar Tart Apples 

1 Tablespoon Flour (Large) 1 Pint Hot Water 

Make a fairly rich biscuit dough; pare and slice apples (a fluted potato slicer 
is fine for this): roll dough out V2 inch thick; cover with the sliced apples; roll 
up like jelly cake; cut slices from this roll % inch thick and place in a bake 
pan, not too close together; now mix together the sugar and flour in a saucepan; 
add gradually the hot water and cook until clear, stirring constantly; dip this 
same, flavored to taste, over dumplings and place at once in oven or steam cooker 
and cook 45 minutes; if steamed, place in oven few minutes to brown slightly. 

APRICOT CREAM 
1 Pound Dried Apricots 2 Cups Whipped Cream 

1 Cup Sugar 
Wash apricots and soak for several hours, or over night, in 2 cups water; pour 
off the water into a saucepan; add the sugar and cook for 5 minutes, or until a 
thick syrup is formed; pour this syrup over the apricots; cool and put through a 
sieve, using only enough syrup to make a soft pulp with the fruit; add to the 
whipped cream and serve very cold with whipped cream on top. 

33 



I^l^^^^^^^^^^^t^^^ 



MOVING? 



Call Main 1575 



^WKEtflT'oYOUR 
MOVE 




LET US KNOW! 



Local and Long Distance 

Large or Small Lots 

Service Guaranteed 



CttlLDERS TRANSFER 
*£> STORAGE 0-™»T« 




Household Goods and Piano Moving 
Our Specialty 



CHILDER'S TRANSFER 

and 

STORAGE 



Phone Main 1575 

11 North Bernard St. 



Spokane, Wash. 



34 



i PUDDING SAUCES I 

HARD SAUCE 
Va Cup Butter Vz Teaspoon Lemon or Vanilla 

Vz Cup Sugar, Powdered or a Little Nutmeg 

Rub butter to a cream in a warm bowl; add sugar gradually and flavor; pack 
it smoothly in a small dish; stamp it with a butter mould or the bottom of a 
figured glass; keep it on ice till very hard or pile it lightly on a fancy dish, like 
Snowdrift Sauce. 

HARD SAUCE 

1 Cup Sugar 2 Eggs 

Vz Cup Butter 1 Teaspoon Nutmeg 

Beat sugar and butter to white cream; add egg whites; beat few minutes; add 
boiled cider and nutmeg; put on ice until needed. 

CIDER SAUCE (formerly Brandy Sauce) 

Vz Tablespoon Flour 1 Teaspoon Vanilla 

2 Tablespoons Butter, Rounded Pinch Salt 

% Cup Sugar, Brown 2 Tablespoons Boiled Cider 

3 Tablespoons Cornstarch 

Melt % the butter; add flour, cornstarch and salt; when well blended, add 1 
pint hot water gradually and cook 5 or 6 minutes; then add sugar; cook a minute; 
add vanilla and cider; remove from fire; add balance of butter and beat until 
very smooth; strain if necessary; serve with steamed pudding. 

CARAMEL SAUCE 
1/3 Cup Sugar 1 Pint Cream 

Put sugar in spider, stir over fire until melted and light brown; add very grad- 
ually % cup boiling water and simmer 10 minutes; or melt sugar in saucepan; 
add cream and set over hot water until the caramel liquefies. 

LEMON SAUCE 

1 Cup Sugar 2 Tablespoons Cornstarch 

2 Cups Hot Water 2 Tablespoons Butter 
1 Lemon 

Mix sugar and cornstarch; add boiling water gradually, stirring it all the time; 
cook 8 or 10 minutes; add lemon juice and butter; serve hot. 

ORANGE SAUCE 

1 Teaspoon Cornstarch 3 Oranges 

2 Tablespoons Sugar 

Mix cornstarch and sugar; squeeze juice of oranges and heat it; when suffi- 
ciently hot add cornstarch and sugar and cook till clear. 

BERRY ROLL SAUCE 

Vz Cup Sugar 1 Teaspoon Cornstarch 

1 Cup Milk 1 Cup Berries, Mashed 

1 Tablespoon Butter 

Cream together sugar and butter, berries and milk; wet cornstarch in enough 
milk to dissolve it and stir in' slowly; let boil 3 minutes and serve. 

CHRISTMAS PUDDING SAUCE 

Use or not, as desired. Melt 2 tablespoons butter in small saucepan; add 1 
tablespoon cornstarch; mix well; add 1 cup water and bring to boiling point, stir- 
ring all the time; then add % cup brown sugar and % teaspoon vanilla. 

35 

Use "Buckeye" Flavoring Extracts, Baking Powder and Spices for Best Results 

At Your Grocer's 




Dear Brides! 



We wish you — 
Happiness, 
Contentment, 
and Prosperity. 



^>1ki 



"■ — d 



We, too, may be of assistance — 

as we specialize in 
HEMSTITCHING and PICOING 

and 
MAKE BUTTONS TO ORDER 

Feathers Cleaned, Dyed and Remodeled 

"Mail Orders Given Special Attention" 

SAMPSON'S 
FEATHER & BUTTON WORKS 



Phone 
Main 3258 



Spokane, Wash. 



524 Kuhn Bldg. 
over Wentworth's 



36 



CONFECTIONS 



"Sweets for the Sweet" 

FUDGE 

2 Cups Sugar 1 Cup Molasses 

1 Cup Milk 2 Squares Chocolate 
Butter (Size of Egg) Vanilla 

Cook until crisp; beat until it sugars; pour on buttered pan; cut into squares. 

DIVINITY CANDY 

2 Cups Sugar 1 Cup Nuts 
Vz Cup White Syrup »/ 2 Cup Water 
2 Egg Whites 

Cook together sugar, syrup and Y2 cup water until it hardens in cold water or 
cracks against the cup; beat egg whites to a stiff froth; when the syrup is ready 
pour slowly into the egg whites and beat hard until it is stiff; add nuts and 
flavoring before syrup gets cold; put in a deep dish, so as to slice it when cold. 
It is fine. 

PINOCHE 
2 Cups Brown Sugar 1 Cup Walnut Meats (Chopped) 

1 Cup Cream 1 Large Piece Butter 

Cook sugar and cream until done; add nuts; take off stove and let cool 5 
minutes; then beat till right consistency. 

BUTTER SCOTCH 

%. Cup Butter 1 Cup Molasses 

2 Cups Sugar 1/3 Cup Vinegar 

Cook all together, stirring until brittle when dropped in cold water; pour into 
butter tins and mark for breaking before cold. 

CREAM TAFFY CANDY 
2 Cups Sugar 1 Teaspoon Cream Tartar 

Butter, Size Walnut 1 Tablespoon Vinegar 

1 Cup Water Vanilla Extract I 

Boil until threads; cool and pull. 

PLAIN CARAMELS 

2 Cups Sugar 1/3 Cup Butter 

% Cup Milk 1 Teaspoon Vanilla or Lemon 

Stir until it begins to boil, but not again; cook until it turns a light brown 
(20 to 25 minutes); pour out on buttered tins; when partly cooled mark off in 
squares. 

COCOANUT CARAMELS 
1'/ 2 Lbs. Sugar 14 Cup Water 

V* Cup Cream 1 Pint Cocoanut (Grated) 

Boil together 10 minutes; add cocoanut; boil 10 minutes more; pour out on 
buttered dish; when cool cut into bars. 

ROSE HONEY 
Take 3 red roses, 3 cups honey, 1 cup water, put in saucepan over fire, bring- 
it gradually to the boiling point; add rock alum the size of a bean and continue 
boiling till syrup is thick. Strain through a cheese cloth while still hot. Put 
away in glasses or jars. Any other flower, not poisonous, can be used. Clover, 
lilac, lily of the valley or anything bees love to gather. In bulk as large as 3 
roses. This is wonderfully pleasing. 

37 

Use "Buckeye" Flavoring Extracts, Baking Powder and Spices for Best Results 

At Your Grocer's 




& Congratulations, 

§ Newlyweds — 

® Start married life right and keep your- 

^ selves in both good health and good 

:|( spirit, by purchasing your meats from 

$£ a reliable market. j|j 

#> -AS 

#} Our Policy &> 

# "To Sell the Best at Right Prices" $ 
® ® 
® The Choicest ® 

|S Fresh, Salted and Smoked £*> 

1 MEATS 1 

# Poultry and Sea Foods in Season # 

Nothing but the BEST of everything ® 




® 



We Specialize in 
Fancy Chops and Roasts for Party 

Lunches or Dinners )d 

PLATO'S MARKET I 

::: 
W. H. PLATH, Proprietor X 

66 Certainly We Deliver" ® 

Main 171 W. 605 Sprague Ave. <*} 

***** ***** ***** ***** ***** ***** ***** ***** ***** ■•••* ***** ••• ***** ***** ***** •■• ••■ •*• • ■• •*• 



38 



BROILING 

The rules for roasting meat apply to broiling except that instead of cooking it 
in the oven it is to be quickly browned, first on one side and then on the other, 
over a hot fire, and removed a little from the fire to finish cooking. Meat an 
inch thick will broil in about 4 minutes. Season after it is cooked. 

FRYING 

There are 2 methods of frying: One with very little fat in the pan, to practice 
which successfully the pan and the fat must be hot before the article to be fried 
is put into it. For instance, in frying chops, if the pan is hot, and only fat 
enough is used to keep the chops from sticking to it, the heat being maintained 
so that the chops cook quickly, they will be nearly as nice as if they were broiled. 
Frying by the other method consists in entirely covering the article to be cooked 
in smoking-hot fat and keeping the fat at that degre of heat until the food is 
brown. It should then be taken up with a skimmer and laid upon brown paper 
for a moment to free it from grease. 

BOILING AND STEWING 

Fresh meat for boiling should be put into boiling water and boiled very gently 
about 20 minutes for each pound. A little salt, spice or vegetables may be boiled 
in the water with the meat for seasoning. A little vinegar put in the water with 
tough meats makes it tender. The broth of boiled meat should always be saved 
to use in soups, stews and gravies. Stewing and simmering meats means to place 
them near enough to the fire to keep the water on them bubbling moderately, 
constantly and slowly. Salt meats should be put over the fire in cold water, 
which, as soon as it boils, should be replaced by fresh cold water, the water to be 
changed until it remains fresh enough to give the meat a palatable flavor when 
done. Salted and smoked meats require about 30 minutes very slowly boiling, from 
the time the water boils, to each pound. Vegetables and herbs may be boiled 
with them to flavor them. When they are cooked the vessel containing them 
should be set where they will keep hot without boiling until wanted, if they are 
to be served hot; if they are to be served cold, they should be allowed to cool in 
the pot liquor in which they were boiled. Very salt meats, or those much dried 
in smoking, should be soaked over night in cold water before boiling. 

ROASTING 

Wipe the meat with damp cloth. Trim and tie into shape, if necessaiy. In 
the bottom of pan put some pieces of fat from meat. Arrange meat on rack in 
pan. Sprinkle with salt, pepper and flour. Have oven very hot at first; when 
meat is half done reduce heat. Baste every 10 or 15 minutes. If there is danger 
of fat in pan being scorched, add a few spoons of boiling water. Allow trom 10 
to 20 minutes per pound of meat, acording as it is desired, rare or well done. 
When done remove to hot plate. Thicken gravy in pan with browned flour, adding 
more water as necessary and add seasoning. An onion may be laid on top of the 
roast to give it flavor, but should be removed before serving. 

In purchasing meat one should know how to select the best quality and the 
most useful pieces. 

Beef, which stands at the head of the list, as being most generally used and 
liked, should be of a bright, clear red, and fat white. It should be well clothed 
in fat, to insure it being tender and juicy. The finest pieces are the sirloin and 
the ribs, the latter making the best roasting piece in the animal. 

In cooking steaks remember it is far better to turn over 3 or 4 times on a 
platter containing a little olive oil than it is to hammer them to make them tender. 
The object is not to force out the juice, but to soften the fibre. 

In selecting pork, one cannot exercise too great care in examining it. Do not 
buy any that is clammy or has kernels in the fat. Remember, too, when the rind 
is hard it is old. 

39 
Buy Quality Meats from Plath's Market 



CUPID'S BOOK 

Veal should be fine in grain, of a delicate pink, with plenty of kidney fat. It 
should never be eaten under 2 months old. 

Mutton should be firm and juicy, the flesh close-grained, the fat hard and 
white. 

TO CLARIFY DRIPPINGS 

Drippings accumulated from different cooked meats (except mutton, which has 
a strong flavor) can be clarified by putting all into a basin and slicing into it 
raw potato, allowing it to boil long enough for the potato to brown, which causes 
all impurites to disappear. Remove from the fire, and when cool drain into basin 
and set in a cool place. 

HINT ON COOKING ROAST BEEF 

For roast beef to be juicy and tender when done, it should be basted every 
few minutes, so in order to save yourself this trouble, place a large piece of beef 
suet on top of the roast; have baking pan perfectly dry and oven very hot; place 
in the oven and let cook the allotted time — say Mj hour — according to size. You 
can be about your inside work and in the allotted time your roast is done to a 
beautiful brown and is very juicy, as it has been constantly basting itself all the 
while with the suet. Take roast out of pan, pour off drippings in a bowl and 
make a gravy on top of stove. A nice addition to this is to put % dozen or so 
peeled potatoes in the pan with roast when placing it in to cook, and they will 
be done to a nicety when the roast is. On taking up roast lay baked potatoes 
around same. 

POT ROAST 

Put a very little drippings in an iron kettle. When hot, lay the beef in. Add 
an onion chopped and fried till brown in butter; pour in water to half height of 
meat; add salt and pepper and cover as close as possible; thicken the gravy; 
simmer from 2 to 3 hours, according to weight. When done, take up, and pour 
the gravy over it and serve. 

BRAISED BEEF 

Wipe and trim 6 pounds round or rump of beef without bone; sear brown on 
all sides in very hot frying pan over hot fire. In braising pan or iron kettle put 
layers of sliced onions, turnips and carrots, sweet herbs, 1 teaspoon of salt, % 
teaspoon of pepper; on this lay meat, add pint boiling water (or water and stewed 
tomatoes); cover closely and cook 4 hours in moderate oven. If water evaporates 
rapidly, add more. Put meat on hot platter. Strain, thicken and season gravy. 
The vegetables may be served separately if desired. 

BEEFSTEAK PIE — FRENCH STYLE 
Take a nice piece of beef, rump or sirloin, cut in small slices; slice also a 
little raw ham; put both in a frying pan, with some butter and small quantity 
chopped onions; let them simmer together a short time on the fire or in the oven; 
add, a little flour and enough stock to make sauce; salt, pepper, chopped parsley 
and Worcestershire sauce; add some sliced potatoes, and cook together 20 minutes; 
put this into a pie-dish, with a few slices of hard-boiled eggs on top, and cover 
with a layer of common paste; bake from 15 to 20 minutes in a well-heated oven; 
all dark-meat pie can be treated precisely in the same way. 

CREAMED DRIED BEEF 
Pick in small pieces *4 pound of thinly-cut, rather moist dried beef and brown 
in a little butter; when brown pour it in a cup of milk; let it come to a boil and 
slightly thicken with a little butter and flour creamed together; when it boils pour 
it over a platter of brown toast and serve it at once. 

BEEF A LA MODE 
Take a piece of meat, cross-rib is best, put a slice of bacon or some lard 
in the bottom of pot, then the meat, and fill up with water till the meat is cov- 
ered; then take 2 onions, some pepper-corns, cloves, bay leaves, 1 carrot and a 
crust of brown bread, salt and some vinegar; put all this in over the beef; keep 
the pot well covered; fill up with more hot water if it boils down, and let it boil 
3 hours; then burn a tablespoon of flour, with some butter, a nice brown, thin 
with the gravy and let it boil up once more with the meat; then put the beef in 
a deep dish and strain the gravy over it; add more vinegar to taste. Serve with 
fried potatoes and red cabbage. 

40 
Buy Quality Meats from Plath's Market 



CUPID'S BOOK 

CORNED BEEF 

Should be cooked in plenty of cold water brought slowly to a boil; if very 
salt, the meat should be soaked over night; but if young and not too strongly 
brined this will not be necessary. It should be cooked long enough to make 
tender, so that in a brisket or plate piece the bones may be readily removed. 
Preserve the liquor in the pot, and if any of the meat remains after the first meal 
return it and let it stand over night in the liquor, so that it may absorb it. If 
no meat remains to be returned to the liquor, the latter will make a good soup 
for next day's dinner, if the beef was not too salt. 

BEEF'S HEART STUFFED 

After washing the heart thoroughly cut it into dice V2 inch long; put into a 
saucepan with water enough to cover; remove scum; when nearly done, add a 
sliced onion, a stalk of celery chopped fine, pepper and salt and a piece of butter; 
stew until the meat is very tender; stir up a tablespoon of flour with a small 
quantity of water and thicken the whole; boil up and serve. 

BOILED BEEF TONGUE 

Clean 3 fresh tongues and place in a kettle with just enough water to cover 
and 1 cup of salt; add more water as it evaporates, so as to keep the tongues 
covered until done, when they can be easily pierced with a fork; take out and if 
to be served at once remove the skin. If wanted for future use, do not peel 
until needed. If salt tongues are used, soak over night and omit the salt when 
boiling. 

HASH 

Take cold pieces of beef that have been left over and chop them fine; then 
add cold boiled potatoes chopped fine; add pepper and salt and a little warm 
water; put all in a frying pan and cook slowly for about 20 minutes. 

TO ROAST A LEG OF PORK 

Choose a small leg of fine young pork; cut a slit in the knuckle with a sharp 
knife and fill the space with sage and onions, chopped, and a little pepper and salt; 
when half done, score the skin in slices, but do not cut deeper than the outer 
rind. Apple sauce should be served with it. 

SALT PORK, CREAM GRAVY, SOUTHERN STYLE 

Cut sweet cured salt pork into ^-inch slices; put into saucepan, cover with 
cold water and bring to boiling point; drain off water, add cold water, stand a 
few minutes; roll in flour 2 parts, cornstarch 1 part, mixed and seasoned with 
white pepper; have 1 tablespoon of hot bacon fat in the frying pan to prevent 
pork from sticking; pour off fat as it melts while frying, brown and fry until 
reduced one-half. For 1Y2 cups cream gravy allow 3 spoons melted fat, add 2 
level tablespoons cornstarch; cook 3 minutes in the hot fat without browning, 
then add 1V1 cups milk, % teaspoon salt, and cook until smoothly thickened. Serve 
for breakfast with baked potatoes and hot biscuit. 

VEAL LOAF 

Three pounds chopped veal, 1 pound fresh pork chopped fine, 3 well-beaten 
eggs, butter size of an egg, 1 pint of bread crumbs, 1 tablespoon of salt, 1 tea- 
spoon black pepper, V2 teaspoon each of thyme and sage. Make into loaf; take 
piece of white muslin and wrap securely, also the ends; place in a baking pan 
with very little water; baste often; turn so as to brown both sides; leave in cloth 
until cold. 

CALVES LIVER AND "BACON 

Cut liver in %-inch slices; soak in cold water 20 minutes; drain, dry and roll in 
flour. Have pan very hot; put in bacon thinly sliced, turn until brown; put on 
hot platter; fry liver quickly in the hot fat, turning very often; when done, pour 
off all but 1 or 2 tablespoons fat, dredge in flour until it is absorbed, and stir till 
brown; add hot water gradually to make smooth gravy, season and boil 1 minute; 
serve separately. 

41 
Buy Quality Meats from Plath's Market 



CUPID'S BOOK 

CUTS OF MEAT AND THEIR USES 
Every housekeeper — in fact, everyone who has marketing to do — should 
know something of the cuts of all common meats, and the most desirable 
way of preparing each for the table. In the illustrations below are shown 
the location of these cuts: 



r~TT\\\ /\ • 
\ I 








1. 



5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 

10. 

11. 

12. 

13. 
14. 



BEEF 

Head — Not used for food. 

Sticking Piece. For Soups, Beef 
Tea, Stews, for making Corned 
Beef. 

Neck. For Soups, Stews, Beef Tea, 
Boiling and Corned Beef. 

Second and Third Chuck. Brown 
Stews, Braising, Steaks, poorer 
Roasts. 

First Chuck. For Roasts. 

First Cut of Ribs. For Roasts. 

Middle Cut of Ribs. For Roasts. 

Back Ribs. For Roasts. 

Plate (no bones). Stews, Soups, 
Corned Beef. 

Brisket. Stews, Brown Stews, 
Soups, Corning. 



Butt-End Brisket. 
Corning. 



Soups, Stews, 



Bolar (no bones). Corning^ Cheap 
Roasts. 

Bony end of Shoulder. For Soups, 

Shin. For Soups. 



15. Loin (including Tenderloin and 

Sirloin). For Roasts and Steaks. 
(A choice selection.) 

16. Flank or Skirt. Rolled Steaks, 

Braising, Boiling, Corned Beef. 

17. Rump. Roasts and Steaks. (This 

should be cut* across the grain.) 

18. Veiny Piece. For Stews and Soups. 

19. Round. Stews, Beef Tea, poorer 

Steak. 

20. Leg. Soups and Stews. 

21. Tail. For Soups. 

22. Pin Bone. For Roasts. 

The bones, gristle, tendons and other 
gelatinous portions are good for soup 
stock. 

MUTTON 

1. Shoulder. For Boiling. 

2. Breast. Roast, Stews and Chops. 

3. Loin. Best end for Roasts, Chops. 

4. Neck. Best end for Cutlets, Stews, 

Pies. 

5. Neck. For Stewing Pieces. 

6. Head. Not used. 

7. Loin. For Roasts, Chops. 

8. Leg. For Roasts, Boiling. 



This page contributed by Plath's Market, W. 605 Sprague Ave. 



42 



SOUPS 



CONSOMME OR PLAIN MEAT STOCK FOR SOUP 

Consomme or stock forms the basis of all meat soups, gravies and purees. 
The simpler it is made the longer it keeps. It is best made of fresh, uncooked 
beef and some broken bones, to which may be added the remnants of broken 
meats. In a home where meat forms part of the every-day diet, a good cook will 
seldom be without a stock-pot. 

Four pounds of beef and broken bones, 1 gallon of cold water and 2 teaspoons 
of salt. Put the meat and water on the back of the stove and let it slowly come 
to a boil, then simmer 3 or 4 hours, until the water is boiled away M>; add the 
salt, strain and set to cool in an earthenware dish well covered; when cold, take 
off the fat from the top and it is ready for use. To make soup for a family of 
6, take % of the stock, to which add % of boiling water and any vegetable desired; 
boil 3 hours; season with salt and pepper. 

BARLEY BROTH 

Put 12 pounds of shin beef in 1 gallon of water; add a cup of pearl barley, 
3 large onions and a small bunch of parsley minced, 3 potatoes sliced, a little 
thyme and pepper and salt to taste; simmer steadily 3 hours, and stir often, so 
that the meat will not burn. Do not let it boil. Always stir soup or broth with 
a wooden spoon. 

VEGETABLE SOUP WITH STOCK 

Cut 3 onions, 3 turnips, 1 carrot and 4 potatoes; put them into a stewpan with 
2 tablespoons of butter and a teaspoon of powdered sugar; after it has cooked 10 
minutes, add 2 quarts of stock, and when it comes to a boil put aside to simmer 
until the vegetables are tender, about % hour. 

CHICKEN GUMBO SOUP 

Fry 1 chicken; remove the bones; chop fine; place in kettle with 2 quarts of 
boiling water, 3 ears of corn, 6 tomatoes, sliced fine, 24 pods of okra; corn, toma- 
toes and okra to be fried a light brown in the gravy left from frying the chicken; 
then add to the kettle with water and chicken 2 tablespoons of rice, pepper and 
salt; boil slowly 1 hour. 

NOODLES FOR SOUP 

Take 2 eggs, butter the size of a walnut, 3 tablespoons sour cream, sufficient 
flour to make a rather stiff dough; knead, roll out very thin and cut in narrow 
strips; cook % hour or less. 

POTATO SOUP 

To 1 quart of water use 1 onion sliced fine and 10 large potatoes sliced fine; 
boil until tender, about 30 minutes, then add 1 cup milk, 1 tablespoon of flour stirred 
with a lump of butter the size of a walnut and salt and pepper to taste; serve hot. 

MACARONI SOUP — ITALIAN STYLE 

Put 4% sticks of macaroni into a saucepan with 1 tablespoon of butter and 
1 onion; boil until the macaroni is tender; when done, drain and pour over it 2 
quarts of good broth, beef, chicken or other kind; place the pan on the fire to 
simmer for about 10 minutes, watching lest it break or become pulpy; add a little 
grated Parmesan cheese and serve. 

CHICKEN SOUP 

Time, 4 hours. Boil 2 chickens with great care, skimming constantly, and 
keeping them covered with water; when tender, take out the chickens and remove 
every bone from the meat; put a large piece of butter into a frying pan and 
sprinkle the chicken meat well with flour; lay in the hot pan; fry a nice brown 
and keep it hot and dry; take a pint of the chicken water and stir in 2 large 
spoons of curry powder, 2 of butter and 1 of flour, 1 teaspoon of salt and a 
little cayenne; mix it with the broth in the pot; when well mixed, simmer 5 
minutes, then add the browned chicken; serve with rice. 

43 

Use "Buckeye" Flavoring Extracts, Baking Powder and Spices for Best Results 

At Your Grocer's 



CUPID'S BOOK 

CREAM OF TOMATO SOUP 

One can tomatoes (2 pounds), 2 small onions, 1 teaspoon salt, 1 teaspoon sugar, 
% teaspoon soda, ^4 teaspoon pepper, dash of cayenne pepper, small sprig of 
celery or dash of celery salt, 1 cup of milk diluted with equal amount of water. Boil 
all but the milk together for 20 minutes; strain through a colander; add the milk, 
which has first been warmed, and then let the mixture come to a boiling point; 
serve at once. 

CREAM OF CELERY SOUP 

In 5 pints of boiling water cook 3 cups of celery, cut fine, until tender enough 
to be rubbed through a sieve; Y2 pint of milk thickened with 1 tablespoon of but- 
ter and 1 tablespoon of flour; add celery salt or extract, salt and pepper; simmer 
10 minutes; a cup of scalded milk added just before serving is an addition. 

CLAM BROTH 

Wash thoroughly 6 large clams in shell; put in kettle with 1 cup of water; 
bring to boil and keep there 1 minute; the shells open, the water takes up the 
proper quantity of juice, and the broth is ready to pour off and serve hot. 

CLAM CHOWDER 

Twenty-five clams, chopped, not fine, Vi pound salt pork chopped fine, 6 pota- 
toes sliced thin, 4 onions sliced thin. Put pork in kettel; after cooking a short 
time add potatoes, onions and juice of clams; cook 2Y2 hours, then add clams; 15 
minutes before serving add 2 quarts milk. 

OX-TAIL SOUP 

One ox tail, 2 pounds lean beef, 4 carrots, 3 onions, parsley, thyme, pepper 
and salt to taste, 4 quarts cold water. Cut tail into joints, fry brown in good 
drippings; slice onions and 2 carrots and fry in the same, when you have taken 
out all of the pieces of tail; when done tie the thyme and parsley in lace bag 
and drop into the soup pot; put in the tail, then the beef cut into strips; grate 
over them 2 whole carrots; pour over all the water and boil slowly 4 hours; strain 
and season; thicken with brown flour wet with cold water; boil 15 minutes longer 
and serve. 

TURKEY SOUP 

Place the remains of a cold turkey and what is left of the dressing and gravy 
in pot and cover it with cold water; simmer slowly 4 hours and let stand until 
the next day; take off what fat may have arisen and take out with a skimmer 
nil the bits of bones; put the soup on to heat until at boiling point, then thicken 
slightly with flour stirred into a cup of milk and season to taste; pick off all the 
meat from bones, put it back into the soup, boil up and serve. 

MUTTON BROTH 

Place in a kettle 3 pounds of a neck of mutton from which the fat has been 
cut, and chopped into small pieces, with 6 pints of water; boil, skim 4 set the pan 
to the rear of the stove where it can simmer for an hour; add 3 ounces of washed 
rice, with a turnip and some celery; simmer for 2 hours; strain, free from 
fat and salt. 

BEEF TEA 

Take 2 pounds of lean rump beef, remove all fat, cut into small pieces and 
place in a tightly corked bottle; place the bottle in a deep saucepan of cold water, 
reaching two-thirds of the way to the top of the bottle; place over a slow fire 
and keep it boiling slowly for 15 minutes; take out the bottle, pour out the liquor 
and use as required. 

44 
Buy Quality Meats from Plath's Market 



HAM AND EGGS 

Fry the ham quickly; remove from the pan as soon as done; drop the eggs, 
one at a time, into the hot fat; be careful not to let the yolks break and run, and 
keep the eggs as much separated as possible, to preserve their shape. The ham 
should be cut in pieces the right size to serve and, when the eggs are done, one 
should be laid on each piece of ham. If any eggs remain, they can be placed 
uniformly on the edge of the platter. 

OMELET SOUFFLE 

Take 3 eggs, 2 ounces of butter, 1 dessertspoon of chopped parsley, 1 salt- 
spoon of chopped onions, 1 pinch of dried herbs. Beat the whites of the eggs to 
a very stiff froth; mix the yolks with the parsley and a little salt and pepper; 
stir the herbs gently into them and continue as in a plain omelet; fold the omelet 
and serve immediately. 

OMELET 

Six eggs, whites and yolks, beaten separately; 1/3 pint milk, teaspoon corn- 
starch, 1 teaspoon baking powder and a little salt; the whites, beaten to a stfif froth, 
last; cook in a little butter. 

SPANISH OMELET 

Chop 2 large onions fine, let brown; add garlic to taste or about 2 buttons, % 
can tomatoes, dash red pepper, 2 or 3 small chilis, salt to taste; cook all well done. 
Beat 6 eggs thoroughly and pour over; let brown and fold. 

SCRAMBLED EGGS 

Beat 3 eggs slightly, add % cup milk or water and sprinkle with pepper; cook 
in hot buttered frying pan, using 1 teaspoon butter, stirring constantly until thick; 
serve hot. 

OMELET AU NATURAL 

Break 8 or 10 eggs into a basin; add a, little salt and pepper, with a tablespoon 
of water; beat the whole well with a spoon or whisk; in the meantime put some 
fresh butter into an omelet pan, and when it is nearly hot, put in an omelet; 
while it is frying, with a skimmer spoon raise the edge from the pan that it may 
be properly done; when the eggs are set and one side is a fine brown, double 
it half over and serve hot. These omelets should be put quite thin in the pan; 
the butter required for each will be about the size of a small egg. 

EGGS A LA MODE 

Remove skin from 10 tomatoes, medium size; cut in a saucepan; add butter, 
pepper and salt; when sufficiently boiled beat up 5 or 6 eggs and just before you 
serve turn them into the saucepan with the tomatoes and stir them 1 way for 2 
minutes, allowing time to be well cooked. 

BUTTERED EGGS 

Melt 1 tablespoon butter, slip in an egg and cook until the white is firm; turn 
over once while cooking, and use just enough butter to keep it from sticking. 

BREAD OMELET 

Soak 2 tablespoons bread crumbs in 2 tablespoons milk for 15 minutes; add 
pinch each salt and pepper; separate egg yolk and white, beat until light; add yolk 
to bread and milk and cut in the white; turn in the heated buttered pan, using Y2 
teaspoon butter, and cook until set; fold and turn on heated dish. 

45 

Use "Buckeye" Flavoring Extracts, Baking Powder and Spices for Best Results 

At Your Grocer's 



CUPID'S BOOK 

FRIED EGGS 

Fried eggs are cooked as buttered eggs without being turned. They are usually- 
fried with bacon fat, which is taken by spoons and poured over the eggs. Do 
not have the fat too hot, as that will give the egg a hard, indigestible crust. 

EGGS AND BACON 

Cut 8 slices of bacon very thin and fry until crisp; take them out and keep 
hot in the oven; break 4 eggs separately into the boiling fat and fry until brown; 
serve with the eggs laid over the bacon, and small fried pieces of bread placed 
around. Hash may be used instead of bacon. 

POACHED EGGS 

Have the water boiling and the toast moistened in a little salt water and but- 
tered; break the eggs, one by one, carefully into the water; let them boil till the 
white sets; remove with an egg slice; pare off the ragged edges and lay each 
egg upon a slice of toast; put over bits of butter, salt and pepper. Eggs require 
to be quite fresh to poach nicely. 

EGGS A LA CARACAS 

Chop finely 2 ounces smoked dried beef freed from fat and outside skin; add 
1 cup tomatoes, % cup grated cheese, a few drops of onion juice and a few grains 
each of cinnamon and cayenne; melt 2 tablespoons butter; add mixture, and when 
heated add 3 eggs slightly beaten; cook until of a creamy consistency, stirring con- 
tinually and scraping from bottom of pan. 

CURRIED EGGS 

Boil 8 eggs hard and cut into thick slices; cook together in a saucepan a table- 
spoon of butter and a heaping tablespoon of flour into which has been stirred a 
teaspoon of curry powder; stir until smooth, then add a large cup of skimmed 
soup stock and cook, stirring all the time, to a smooth paste; if too thick, add 
more stock; when smooth and of the consistency of cream, add salt and pepper to 
taste and lay into the sauce the sliced eggs, sprinkled lightly with salt;" cook 
until very hot. 

EGGS AND TOMATOES 

Scrambled eggs with tomatoes make an appetizing luncheon dish. Take 2 
good-sized tomatoes, peel, cut them in pieces and fry them in a little hot olive oil; 
when cooked drain off the liquid and take 4 eggs, well beaten; add some milk and 
scramble; mix the tomatoes with the eggs, seasoning with salt and pepper to taste. 
Serve on thin slices of toast. 

EGGS AND SPAGHETTI 

Take spaghetti and cook it with a cup of grated cheese. When the spaghetti 
and cheese are cooked, add slices of hard-boiled eggs. Serve in a bowl garnished 
with pieces of soft toast. 

Among many other excellent dishes made with this paste are fried chicken 
with spaghetti and tomato jelly and macaroni au gratin in an Edam cheese case. 

EGGS IN BAKED POTATOES 

Six eggs; 6 potatoes, 6 tablespoons grated cheese, 6 tablespoons butter. Bake 
the potatoes; cut off the top and remove % of the inside of potato; in its place 
drop an egg raw; salt, cayenne pepper, 1 teaspoon cheese in each and 1 teaspoon 
butter; put back into a hot oven for 4 minutes. 



46 
Use "Buckeye" Flavoring Extracts, Baking Powder and Spices for Best Results 

At Your Grocer's 




The best investment on earth is a home. 
Its life is very great, the depreciation small. 
Its ownership improves a family's credit and 
moral and financial standing. 
Pew successful men live in rented homes. 
Any family with a fairly steady income and 
determination can acquire a home. Once ac- 
quired, no other pleasure on earth can equal it. 

Resolve Now to Own a Home 

Take the Home Lumber Company into your confidence. We 
specialize in the planning and furnishing of architecturally 
correct small homes, designed for economy and convenience. 
It will be a pleasure to talk with you. Phone High. 123, or 
call in person. 



Home Lumber Company 

Close in on the newly paved highway, East Trent, Spokane 



Yes— But What Will This Home Cost? 




^^SpEcIal Ho5> 



"There's a Man in Town Who Can Tell You" 

And he can tell you more than that. He knows 
the woods best adapted to your needs. He can 
show you an interesting variety of doors, win- 
dows, cabinets and built-in features. 
At his command are all of the latest designs of 
modern homes. Or he will help you develop 
plans of your own. 

Get Acquainted With This Man 

He is in the employ of the Home Lumber Com- 
pany. Whether it be a new home, an altera- 
tion, a new porch, an oak floor or a kitchen 
cabinet, he can offer suggestions and quote 
you a definite price. And his services are yours 
to command, without cost or obligation. He 
invites your inquiries. Phone High. 123. 



The "Home Folks" 

E. 2901 Trent Ave., Spokane On the newly paved Highway 



HOW TO SELECT POULTRY 
In selecting poultry full-grown fowls have the best flavor, provided they are 
j'oung. The age may be determined by turning the wing backward; if it yields, 
it is tender. The same is true if the skin on the leg is readily broken. Older 
poultry makes the best soup. The intestines should be removed at once, but 
frequently in shipping they are left in and hence, when removed, the fowl needs 
washing in several waters. The next to the last water should contain V2 tea- 
spoon of baking soda, which sweetens and renders all more wholesome. The 
giblets are the gizzard, heart, liver and neck. 

ROAST TURKEY 

Carefully pluck the bird and singe off the down with lighted paper; break the 
leg bone close to the foot, hang up the bird and draw out the strings of the 
thigh. Never cut the breast; make a small slit down the back of the neck and 
take out the crop that way, then cut the neck bone close, and after the bird 
is stuffed the skin can be turned over the back and the crop will look full and 
round. Cut around the vent, making the hole as small as possible, and draw 
carefully, taking care that the gall bag and the intestines joining the gizzard 
are not broken. Open the gizzard, take out the contents and detach the liver 
from the gall bladder. The liver, gizzard and heart, if used in the gravy, should 
be boiled 1*% hours and chopped as fine as possible. Wash the turkey and wipe 
thoroughly dry, inside and out; then fill the inside with stuffing, and sew the 
skin of the neck over the back. Sew up the opening at the vent, then run a long 
skewer into the pinion and thigh through the body, passing it through the opposite 
pinion and thigh. Put a skewer in the small part of the leg, close on the outside, 
and push it through. Pass a string over the points of the skewers and tie it 
securely at the back. 

Sprinkle well with flour, cover the breast with nicely-buttered white paper, 
place on a grating in the dripping pan and put in the oven to roast. Baste every 
15 minutes, a few times with butter and w?,ter, and then with the gravy in the 
dripping pan. Do not have too hot an ovjn. A turkey weighing 10 pounds will 
require 3 hours to bake. 

ROAST GOOSE 

Get a goose that is not more than 8 months old, and the fatter it is the more 
juicy the meat. The dressing should be made of 3 pints of bread crumbs, 6 ounces 
of butter, a teaspoon each of sage, black pepper and salt and chopped onions. 
Don't stuff very full, but sew very closely, so that the fat will not get in. Place 
in a baking pan with a little water and baste often with a little salt, water and 
vinegar. Turn the goose frequently so that it may be evenly browned. Bake 
about 2Y2 hours. When done, take it from the pan, drain off the fat and add the 
chopped giblets, which have previously been boiled tender, together with the water 
in which they were done. Thicken with flour and butter rubbed together; let 
boil, and serve. 

BAKED CHICKEN 
Take, a plump chicken, dress and lay in cold salt water for V2 hour; put in 
pan, stuff and sprinkle with salt and pepper; lay a few slices of fat pork over; 
cover and bake until tender, with a steady fire; baste often; turn so as to have 
uniform heat. 

BOILED CHICKEN 

Clean, wash and stuff as for roasting. Baste a floured cloth around each and 
put into a pot with enough boiling water to cover them well. The hot water 
cooks the skin at once and prevents the escape of the juices. The broth will not 
be so rich as if the fowls are put on in cold water, but this is proof that the 
meat will be more nutritious and better flavored. Stew very slowly, for the first 
half hour especially. Boil an hour or more, guiding yourself by size and tough- 
ness. Serve with egg or bread sauce. 

47 

Spokane-4 



CUPID'S BOOK 

CHICKEN FRICASSEE 

Clean and disjoint chicken; wipe each piece; put in pot, cover with boiling 
water and simmer till tender; to the liquor add ^4 cup or more hot diluted milk, 
thicken with flour dissolved in cold water; season well; boil up for a few minutes; 
serve with dumplings or biscuit. 

FRIED CHICKEN 

A chicken for frying should be very young, but if there are doubts as to its 
age, before cutting it up parboil it for 10 minutes in water that has been slightly 
salted. Sprinkle with salt and pepper and roll them in flour; fry in plenty of 
butter till done. It takes 20 minutes to fry them. Put the chicken on a platter, 
make a gravy by turning off some of the fat and adding % cup of milk and Y2 cup 
water that has been thickened with 1 tablespoon of flour; pour this gravy over it; 
or the gravy can be omitted and the platter can be garnished with crisp lettuce 
leaves. 

CHICKEN CROQUETTES 

Cut up fine any kind of cold fowl, season with salt, pepper and butter, a little 
onion; stir in 2 fresh eggs; make in cakes, dip in beaten egg, then in cracker 
crumbs and fry in boiling lard or lard and butter mixed. 

FRIED SPRING CHICKEN 

Clean and disjoint, then soak in salt water for about 2 hours; put in frying 
pan equal parts of lard and butter, enough to cover chicken; roll each piece in 
flour, dip in beaten tgg, then roll in cracker crumbs and drop into boiling fat; 
fry until browned on both sides; serve on flat platter garnished with sprigs of 
parsley; pour most of the fat from frying pan; thicken remainder with browned 
flour, add to it 1 cup of boiling milk; serve in gravy bowl. 

CHICKEN POT PIE 

Two large chickens disjointed and boiled in 2 quarts water; add a few slices 
salt pork; season; when nearly cooked, add crust made of 1 quart flour, 4 tea- 
spoons baking powder, 1 teaspoon salt; stir in stiff batter with water; drop into 
kettle while boiling; cover close and cook 25 minutes. 

CHICKEN — SOUTHERN STYLE 

Wash your chicken thoroughly in soda and water; dry and disjoint; put IV2 
cups of cold water in a porcelain pot (Dutch oven preferred); pack chicken in 
closely; mince 2 small onions, 1 kernel garlic, little parsley and sprinkle over 
chicken; cover closely and let simmer for 3 hours; }k hour before done season with 
salt and pepper. Don't lift cover during the cooking. When done remove chicken 
and thicken gravy with a little flour. 

WILD DUCKS 

Nearly all wild ducks are liable to have a fishy flavor, and when handled by 
inexperienced cooks, are sometimes uneatable from this cause. Before roasting 
them guard against this by parboiling them with a small carrot, peeled, put within 
each. This will absorb the unpleasant taste. An onion will have the same 
effect; but unless you mean to use onion in the stuffing, the carrot is preferable. 

ROAST WILD DUCKS 

Parboil as above directed; throw away the carrot or onion; lay in fresh water 
Y2 hour; stuff with bread crumbs, season with pepper, sage, salt and onion; roast 
until brown, basting for half the time with butter and water, then with drippings; 
add to the gravy, when you have taken up the ducks, a teaspoon of currant jelly 
and a pinch of cayenne pepper; thicken with browned flour and serve in a 
tureen. 

RABBIT PIE 

Cut a rabbit into 7 pieces, soak in salted water V* hour and stew until half 
done in enough water to cover it; lay slices of pork in the bottom of a pie dish 
and upon these a layer of rabbit; then follow slices of hard-boiled egg, peppered 
and buttered; continue until the dish is full, the top layer being bacon; pour in 
the water in which the rabbit was stewed, and adding a little flour, cover with 
puff paste; cut a slit in the middle and bake 1 hour, laying paper over the top 
should it brown too fast. 

48 



WHITE SAUCE 
2 Cups Milk 2 Tablespoons Butter 

2 Tablespoons Cornstarch Salt and Pepper to Taste 

Rub the butter and cornstarch together and add the cold milk. Place over a 
moderate fire and stir constantly till it boils; cook thoroughly. This sauce may be 
used for vegetables. For fish, add hard-boiled eggs, either chopped or sliced. 

CAPER SAUCE 
2 Tablespoons Butter 1 Teaspoon Vinegar 

2 Tablespoons Flour 3 Tablespoons Capers 

1 Tablespoon Cornstarch Salt and Pepper to Taste 

2 Cups Milk 

Rub butter, flour and cornstarch to a paste. Add the milk and stir over moderate 
fire till it thickens. Add vinegar, capers and seasoning. Serve with lamb or mutton. 

VELVET SAUCE 

4 Tablespoons Butter '/ 2 Cup Mushroom Liquor 

1'/ 2 Tablespoons Flour 6 Whole Peppers 

2 Tablespoons Cornstarch Salt and Dash of Nutmeg 

1 Quart Chicken or Veal Stock 
Combine as directed in white sauce, using stock in place of milk. Boil 20 minutes. 

Skim and simmer for 1 hour. Strain and season if necessary. Add a few drops of 

kitchen bouquet. 

TOMATO SAUCE 
1 Pint Tomatoes V/ 2 Tablespoons Cornstarch 

1 Large Slice Onion Salt and Pepper to Taste 

2 Tablespoons Butter 

Directions: Put the onion and bay leaf into the tomatoes and simmer gently 20 
minutes. Rub through a strainer and add to the butter and cornstarch previously 
rubbed together. Stir over a moderate fire till it boils and season to taste. Cook 
thoroughly. 

LOBSTER SAUCE 
1 Lobster 1 Pint Boiling Water 

VA Tablespoons Cornstarch Lemon Juice 

1/5 Teaspoon Cayenne Pepper 
Directions: Cut the lobster into dice; rub the "coral" to a paste with part of the 
butter. Make a sauce of the cornstarch, rest of butter and water; add the coral and 
season to taste with lemon juice and salt; simmer 5 minutes and strain over the diced 
lobster. Boil up once and serve. 

PARSLEY SAUCE 

Make a white sauce and add chopped parsley and a little lemon juice. Serve 
with fish. 

POULETTE SAUCE 

Add a cup of cream and the yolks of 2 eggs beaten together until they are light 
to cream sauce and a little paprika. 

NEWBURG SAUCE 

Make Poulette Sauce. As soon as you have removed it from the fire add a few 
tablespoons of white wine. 

CREAMED CHICKEN GRAVY 

Pour desired amount of milk into pan where chicken has been fried. Season with 
butter, salt and pepper, and thicken with cornstarch rubbed smooth with a little 
cold milk. 

ROAST BEEF SAUCE 

Remove roast from pan and pour off all the fat except one good tablespoon. Add 
one tablespoon of cornstarch. Put over the fire and cook, stirring constantly till 
well browned. Add gradually, stirring all the time, 1 pint of boiling water, and cook 
till thick and smooth. All brown gravies may be made from this recipe. 

HORSERADISH SAUCE 

A good-sized stick of horseradish is required, which should be grated into a bowl 
and a teaspoon of mustard, a little salt, % pint of cream and vinegar to taste added. 
Stir all well together. 

49 

Use "Buckeye" Flavoring Extracts, Baking Powder and Spices for Best Results 

At Your Grocer's 



Did it Ever Occur to You 
That — 



You can easily learn to make 
your own dresses and remodel 
the old ones? 

So why wear the old dress like 
it is when you can quickly make 
it "up - to - date" and "snappy" 
and that at a very small cost? 
We would be pleased to have 
you call for full particulars and 
invite you to join our classes. 



m* 



SPOKANE SCHOOL OF 
DRESSMAKING 



SARAH ALICE DURHAM 

"Formerly with The Crescent" 



Phone Main 3598 



417 Jamison Bldg. 



Spokane, Wash. 



illlllllllllllllllllllllllllllllM 



STUFFINGS 



illlllllllll!lllllll!llllill!lllllllllllllllllllllli 

CHESTNUT STUFFING FOR POULTRY 

One pint fine bread crumbs, 1 pint shelled and boiled French chestnuts chopped 
fine, salt, pepper and chopped parsley to season, Y2 cup melted butter. 

OYSTER STUFFING FOR POULTRY 
Substitute small raw oysters, picked and washed, for chestnuts in above recipe. 

CELERY STUFFING 

Substitute finely-cut celery for chestnuts. 

STUFFING FOR TOMATOES, GREEN PEPPERS, ETC. 

One cup dry bread crumbs, 1/3 teaspoon salt, % teaspoon pepper, 1 teaspoon 
onion juice, 1 tablespoon chopped parsley, 2 tablespoons melted butter. Hominy, 
rice or other cooked cereal may take the place of crumbs. 

LAMB AND VEAL STUFFING 
Three cups stale bread crumbs, 3 onions chopped fine, 1 teaspoon salt, % tea- 
spoon white pepper, 2 tablespoons chopped parsley, V2 cup melted butter or suet. 

STUFFING FOR PORK 
Three large onions parboiled and chopped, 2 cups fine bread crumbs, 2 table- 
spoons powdered sage, 2 tablespoons melted butter, or pork fat, salt and pepper 
to taste. 

SAGE STUFFING FOR GEESE AND DUCKS 
Two chopped onions, 2 cups mashed potatoes, 1 cup bread crumbs, salt, pepper 
and powdered sage to taste. 

POULTRY STUFFING 
One quart stale bread crumbs, salt, pepper and powdered thyme to season 
highly, % cup melted butter. 

BREAD STUFFING FOR MEAT OR POULTRY 

# Soak 1 quart stale bread (in pieces) in cold water and squeeze dry; season 
with 1 teaspoon salt, % teaspoon pepper, 1 teaspoon ginger, % teaspoon poultry 
seasoning and % teaspoon onion; add 2 tablespoons fat drippings, melted; mix 
thoroughly; add an egg, slightly beaten; add heart, liver and tender parts of giz- 
zard chopped fine and partially boiled. 

TURKEY STUFFING— ST. JAMES 

Chop together the liver of the turkey and 1 small onion; stir these in a sauce- 
pan over the fire, but do not brown, for about 10 minutes; then mix the contents 
into a pound of sausage meat; when thoroughly mixed, add about 2 dozen whole 
chestnuts which have been shelled, blanched and cooked until tender in boiling, 
salted water. 

DUMPLINGS FOR STEWS 

One and one-half cups flour, 3 teaspoons baking powder, 2 tablespoons .butter, 
cut through with a fork, % teaspoon salt and enough milk to make soft dough; drop 
small spoons into boiling stew; water just to the top of the meat; cover tightly and 
let boil slowly undisturbed for 15 minutes. Do not place dumplings on top of 
each other. 

51 

Use "Buckeye" Flavoring Extracts, Baking Powder and Spices for Best Results 

At Your Grocer's 



All Successful Housekeepers Demand — 

Mrs. Randall's Salad Dressing 




Here comes the bride = 

With arms stretched wide 

To receive her bridegroom's blessing. 

"What do I see? s 

Oh, can it be = 

A SALAD made with RANDALL'S DRESSING?" ■ 



Manufactured by the 



C. R. PRODUCTS CO. 

Spokane, Washington 

II 



52 



IDEAS IN SALADS 

Prepare celery stalks very carefully by removing the stringy fiber until entirely 
free from shreds; chop quite fine, and to 2 cups of celery add 2 cups of chopped 
lettuce, the latter crisp and fresh as possible; season with salt, pepper and thyme, 
vinegar, olive oil, bay leaf; if possible, add Vi teaspoon shoyu, or Japanese sauce, 
which greatly improves the flavor; mix all thoroughly and then add crab, shrimp, 
sardine, spiced mackerel or halibut filling. Boiled halibut, chilled in salt water, 
makes a good combination with crab, and when broken into small portions and 
allowed to stand for 1 hour or so, in the same salt water with crab, can with 
difficulty be distinguished from the crab itself. For sardine, potato and meat 
salads, a tablespoon of onion juice is desirable. 

Make mayonnaise dressing by using the yolks of 3 or 4 eggs, according to the 
quantity desired, and after beating add, drop by drop, pure olive oil, stirring con- 
stantly until the mixture begins to thicken; then a larger quantity of oil may be 
stirred in until the mixture becomes of proper consistency, about like heavy cream; 
do not season until thickened for fear of curdling. Salt very sparingly, and if 
desired sift in a little cayenne pepper, a few drops of lemon, 2 teaspoons of spiced 
mustard vinegar from mustard pickles. 

CHICKEN SALAD 

Cut cold roast or boiled chicken in small dice; add celery cut fine; season with 
salt and pepper; mix with French dressing and put aside for an hour or more; 
just before serving stir in some mayonnaise slightly thinned with lemon juice or 
French dressing; arrange on lettuce leaves and cover with thick mayonnaise. 

CRAB SALAD 

One pint of crab meat, 2 stalks of celery, cut fine, 1 hard-boiled egg, chopped 
fine, and 1 tomato cut into small pieces; season with salt, pepper and vinegar; 
mix in salad bowl, garnishing it with crisp leaves of lettuce; dress with mayon- 
naise dressing. 

LOBSTER SALAD 

Cut the lobster into small squares and season with 2 tablespoons of vinegar, 
2 of oil, 1 teaspoon of salt and pepper and let it stand in a cool place for an 
hour; when ready to serve line the salad bowl with crisp lettuce leaves, and after 
mixing the lobster thoroughly with mayonnaise place it on the lettuce; serve 
with toasted crackers and cheese. 

HOT SLAW 

Pick off the bad leaves from head of small cabbage; slice or cut the cabbage 
very thin; scald it 5 minutes in 2 quarts of boiling water and drain through a 
colander; mix it well with a sauce made of % cup of hot vinegar, 1 cup of sour 
cream, yolks of 2 eggs, 3 tablespoons of oil, salt and pepper to taste. 

COLD SLAW 

Chop or shred a small white cabbage; prepare a dressing in the proportion of 
1 tablespoon of oil to 4 of vinegar, 1 teaspo©n mustard, salt and sugar and pepper; 
pour over the salad, adding, if you choose, 3 tablespoons of minced celery; toss 
up well and put in a glass bowl. 

POTATO SALAD 

Four large potatoes, % a small onion, a little celery, chopped fine. If the pota- 
toes have been boiled in their skin they are better. The dressing consists of 1 
cup of cream, 1 tablespoon of cornstarch, 1 egg, 2 tablespoens of butter, 3 table- 
spoons of vinegar, % teaspoon of mustard, 1 of sugar, salt and pepper to taste. 

53 

Use "Buckeye" Flavoring Extracts, Baking Powder and Spices for Best Results 

At Your Grocer's 



CUPID'S BOOK 

EGG SALAD 

Cut hard-boiled eggs in half lengths, rub their yolks through a sieve, mix with 
equal weight of* Parmesan cheese, season wtih chopped chives, pepper and salt, 
and enough butter to moisten; fill the whites with this mixture, serve on lettuce 
and garnish with sliced tomatoes. 

CRAB MEAT A LA NEWBURG 

Clean and pick 2 nice large fresh crabs; place in a saucepan about 1 ounce of 
butter; when melted, add the picked crab meat; season with V2 pinch of cayenne 
pepper, 2 pinches of salt; let simmer slowly for 2 minutes, then add cream to just 
cover it; let come to a boil; place 3 yolks of eggs in a bowl with 1/3 cup milk; beat 
well together and add it to the crab; stir gently for a few minutes till it thickens, 
but do not boil; serve in a hot casserole or tureen. Serve thin slices of freshly-made 
hot toast en the side. 

Same recipe for Shrimp or Lobster a la Newburg. 

MAYONNAISE DRESSING 

Put the yolk of 1 egg into 1 cup with salt-spoon of salt and beat until light, 
% teaspoon of mustard and beat again; then add olive oil, drop by drop, then a 
few drops of vinegar and the same of lemon juice; continue this process until the 
egg has absorbed a little more than % a teacup of oil; finish by adding a very 
little cayenne pepper and sugar. 

FRENCH DRESSING 

Mix V± teaspoon of salt, dash of white pepper, 3 tablespoons olive oil; stir for 
few minutes, then gradually add 1 tablespoon vinegar, stirring rapidly until mix- 
ture is slightly thickened and vinegar cannot be noticed. Mixture will separate 
in about 20 minutes. 

FRUIT SALAD 

Mix Vi cup chopped walnuts, 2 apples, sliced thin, V2 cup chopped celery and 
lettuce leaves and serve with cooked salad dressing. 

NUT SALAD 

Take equal portions of English walnut, hickorynut and pecan meats; add twice 
as much chopped celery as nut meats; pour over all a good salad dressing and 
serve at once on lettuce leaves. 

THREE-MINUTE MAYONNAISE 
Mix V2 teaspoon salt, pinch cayenne or paprika and % teaspoon mustard in a 
bowl; add 2 teaspoons lemon juice or vinegar and carefully put in 1 whole egg 
and 1 egg yolk so as not to break yolk; pour in Y2 cup salad oil and beat with 
an egg beater until blended; continue until the oil is all added. 

CELERY SALAD 

Two bunches celery, 1 tablespoon salad oil, 4 tablespoons of vinegar, 1 tea- 
spoon of sugar, pepper and salt. Wash and scrape celery; lay in ice-cold water 
until dinner time; then cut into inch lengths, add above seasoning; stir well to- 
gether with fork and serve in salad bowl. 




54 

Use "Buckeye" Flavoring Extracts, Baking Powder and Spices for Best Results 

At Your Grocer's 



These recipes contributed by 

C. R. PRODUCTS COMPANY 

503 East Liberty Avenue Spokane, Wash. 

PINEAPPLE AND PEAR SALAD 

2 Cups Diced Pineapple </ 2 Cup Cheese cut in small pieces 
1 Cup Diced Pears Vz Cup Chopped Walnuts 

Mix with y% cup of Mrs. Randall's Cream Salad Dressing, to which has been 
added % cup whipped cream. Serve in orange baskets on lettuce leaves. 

BEET SALAD 

Boil 6 new beets of uniform size until tender; drain; cover with vinegar; let stand 
over night; drain from vinegar; rub off skins and scoop out the center, so as to 
form a cup; arrange in nests of crisp lettuce leaves. Chop fine 1 cucumber, 3 new 
onions and 2 radishes. Mix all lightly with Mrs. Randall's Mayonnaise Dressing; 
fill cups with mixture and garnish with mayonnaise and bits of beets. 

TUNA FISH SALAD 

Three cups tuna fish, picked to small pieces with fork, 1 cup celery, 1 cup finely 
chopped cabbage, Y2 cup shredded almonds. Combine with Mrs. Randall's Thousand 
Island Dressing and serve on lettuce leaves. Garnish with hard boiled eggs and 
strips of pimentos. 

ENDIVE AND GREEN PEPPER SALAD 

Separate the leaves of three heads of crisp endive; put these together in faggots; 
slip each faggot through a ring of green pepper; arrange on heart leaves of lettuce 
and pour over Mrs. Randall's Thousand Island Dressing. 

CHICKEN SALAD 
1 Pint Cold Diced Chicken Vz Teaspoon Salt 

1 Cup Finely Chopped Celery Dash Pepper 

1 Hard Boiled Egg 1 Cup Mrs. Randall's Mayonnaise 

Vz Cup Broken Walnut Meats 
Garnish with olive and sliced hard boiled eggs. Serve on lettuce leaves. 

SHRIMP SALAD 

3 Cups Finely Chopped Cabbage 1 Cup Shrimps, cut In pieces 
3 Cups Diced Celery 2 Hard Boiled Eggs 

1 Green Pepper, cut in shreds 
Combine with Mrs. Randall's Olive Salad Dressing. Serve on crisp lettuce leaves. 

MACARONI SALAD 

Cook until tender 1 cup macaroni in salt water; put in colander and run cold 
water over until chilled; drain and combine with 1 tablespoon minced onion, 1 cup 
finely chopped celery, V2 cup shredded cabbage, % cup pimentos; blend with 1 cup 
Mrs. Randall's Olive Salad Dressing. 

PINEAPPLE AND PRUNE SALAD 

Cook 18 large dried prunes until tender; drain and let stand until cold, then stuff 
with the following mixture: ^4 cup chopped walnut meats, % cup each minced dates 
and raisins. Arrange 3 prunes on ring of pineapple. Serve with Mrs. Randall's 
Cream Salad Dressing on heart leaves of lettuce. 

55 




Housewives! 

In preparing sea foods according to the recipes 
in this book, it is very important that you use 
none but the freshest and the best. 

We specialize in 

Fresh, Salted and Smoked Fish 

of all kinds 

Oysters, Crabs, Lobster, 
Shrimp, etc. 



IMPORTED SPECIALTIES 

Norway and Holland Herring, Sardines, Lutefisk, 
Anchovis, Cheese, Health Breads, etc. 



a 



Two Markets for Your Convenience 9, 



VICTOR-JOHNSON CO. 



Phone Main 1080 



Southwest Corner 
Post and Main 




124 
N. Wall St. 



56 



and 



rpTCTT and 

T lorl SHELL FISH 



TO FRY FISH 

After the fish is well cleansed, lay it on a folded towel and dry out all the 
water; when well wiped and dry, roll it in wheat flour, rolled crackers, grated 
stale bread or cornmeal, whichever may be preferred; have a thick-bottomed fry- 
ing pan with plenty of sweet lard salted (a tablespoon of salt to each pound^ of 
lard) for fresh fish which have not been previously salted; let it become boiling 
hot, then lay the fish in and let it fry gently until one side is a fine, delicate 
brown, then turn the other; when both are done take it up carefully and serve 
quickly, or keep it covered with a tin cover, and set the dish where it will keep hot. 

TO BROIL FISH 

Rub the bars of your gridiron with dripping or a piece of beef suet to prevent 
the fish from sticking. Put a good piece of butter into a dish, enough salt and 
pepper to season the fish; lay the fish on it when it is broiled, and with a knife 
put the butter over every part; serve very hot. 

TO BAKE FISH WHOLE 

Cut off the head and split the fish down nearly to the tail; prepare a dressing 
of bread, butter, pepper and salt; moisten with a little water; fill the dish with 
this dressing and bind it together with a piece of string; lay the fish on a bake- 
pan and pour round it a little water and melted butter; baste frequently. A good' 
sized fish will bake in an hour. Serve with the gravy of the fish, drawn butter. 
BROILED SALT MACKEREL 

Freshen by soaking it over night in water, being careful that the skin lies 
uppermost; in the morning dry it without breaking; cut off the head and tip of 
the tail; place it between the bars of a buttered fish-gridiron and broil to a light 
brown; lay it on a hot dish, and dress with a little butter, pepper and lemon 
juice and vinegar. CODFISH BALLS 

Put fish in cold water, set on back of stove; when water gets hot, pour off 
and put cold on again until fish is sufficiently fresh; then pick it up; boil potatoes 
and mash them; mix fish and potatoes together, while potatoes are hot, taking 2/3 
potatoes and 1/3 fish; put in plenty of butter; make into balls and fry in plenty 
of lard; have lard hot before putting in balls. Variation may be had by rolling 
each ball in beaten egg, then in dry bread crumbs before frying. 

BOILED SALMON 

Sew as many pounds as desired up in a cheese-cloth bag and boil for 15 minutes 
to the pound, in slightly salted water. When done, take out and lay upon a dish, 
being careful not to break the fish. 

CREAM SAUCE 
Prepare a small cup of cream sauce, in which has been stirred a teaspoon of 
minced parsley and the juice of % of a lemon. Pour over the salmon and serve. 
Garnish with parsley. The choicest portion of the salmon is that at the center and 
toward the tail. 

CREAMED FISH 
Pick (not shred) 1 cup of codfish; place in a spider and fill and cover with 
cold water: stir a moment over the fire and pour off the water; stand on the stove; 
cover the fish with 1Y2 pints of milk, also a large tablespoon of butter; stir into 1 cup 
milk 2 tablespoons of flour and when the milk on the stove is about to boil mix this 
with it; when the mixture has thickened stand where it will boil no longer and stir 
into it 1 egg. Serve at once. 

FISH BALLS 
The remnants of any cold fish can be used by breaking the fish to pieces with 
a fork, removing all the bones and skin and shredding very fine; add an equal 
quantity of mashed potatoes; make into a stiff batter with a piece of butter and 
some milk and a beaten egg; flour your hands and shape the mixture into balls; 
fry in boiling lard or drippings to a light brown. 

CHAFING DISH RECIPE 
. Skin the fish and lay on brown paper for a few minutes; then dip in beaten 
tgg and roll in finely powdered cracker crumbs; place butter in a chafing dish 

57 
Buy your Sea Foods from the Victor-Johnson Co. — "The House of Quality Sea Foods" 



CUPID'S BOOK 

so that when melted it will cover bottom of the dish to the depth of % of an 
inch; when hot, place the sardines in and cook until nicely browned, being careful 
not to let them burn. Serve on a lettuce leaf with mayonnaise dressing. 

FRIED OYSTERS 

Twenty-four large oysters, 1 teaspoon salt, V& teaspoon pepper, Y2 cup bread 
crumbs, 1 egg. Clean and drain select oysters; roll in bread crumbs, seasoned 
with salt and pepper; let stand 15 minutes or more, then dip in beaten egg, roll in 
crumbs again, let stand again 15 minutes or more in a cool place, and fry 1 minute 
or until golden brown in deep hot fat; drain on paper; serve on hot platter and 
garnish with parsley, sliced pickle or lemon. Serve with French fried potatoes. 

DEVILED CRAB 

One cup crab meat, picked from shells of well-boiled crabs; 2 tablespoons fine 
bread crumbs or rolled crackers, yolk 2 hard-boiled eggs, chopped, juice of a 
lemon, % teaspoon mustard, a little cayenne pepper and salt, 1 cup good drawn 
butter. Mix 1 spoon crumbs with chopped crab meat, yolks, seasoning, drawn 
butter; fill scallop shells — large clam shell will do — with mixture; sift crumbs 
over top, heat to slight brown in quick oven. 

CREAMED CRAB 

Melt % inch slice of butter, add V2 cup flour; stir all the time; to this add 
4 cups of milk; season with salt, red pepper and 1 tablespoon Worcestershire sauce; 
cook 10 minutes; add the picked meat of 3 crabs and a small bottle of mushrooms; 
let it come to a boil once. Serve in ramikins. 

BROILED HERRING WITH ANCHOVY SAUCE 

Take herrings, dip in oil or melted butter, season with salt and pepper and 
broil; while fish are broiling, take small jar of Anchovy paste, dissolve in pan with 
butter, chopped parsley and juice of 1 lemon till warm, then spread sauce on fish 
and serve. 

LOBSTER A LA LOUIE (For Eight Persons) 

Select a choice lobster or 2, about 4 pounds in all; cut it lengthwise, clean 
and wash, dry it weL in a towel; then cut into ^4 slices and put in cool place; 
prepare 3 heads of lettuce (the harder the better); remove the loose leaves and 
keep for garnishing; then shred up the solid heads, dip in water and take out 
right away and drain. 

Louie Dressing 

Six green spring onions, chopped very fine; the same amount of very tender 
celery, chopped very fine; twice the amount of green peppers, chopped very fine; 
Vz teaspoon of paprika, 1 cup of mayonnaise, 1 cup Chili sauce, 1 cup tomato 
catsup, 2 teaspoons Worcestershire sauce, salt to taste; mix well; arrange the let- 
tuce leaves on a large platter, lay the shredded lettuce in the center and arrange 
the sliced lobster upon it; garnish with a little mayonnaise, paprika and boiled 
eggs, quartered, olives, pickles and the legs of the lobster; serve the dresisng on 
a side dish and serve as cold as possible. 

Same recipe for Crab and Shrimp a la Louie. 

LOBSTER PATTIES 

Cut into small pieces tail part, 2 boiled lobsters; season well with pepper, salt 
and a little lemon juice; dissolve 2 tablespoons cornstarch in a little cold milk and 
turn into 1 pint of boiling milk; after it has thickened add butter and cook until 
quite thick; stir lobster into this mixture and heat through; fill patty shells which 
have been heated. 

FANCY FRY FOR BRIDE AND GROOM 

Fry 1 dozen Eastern oysters; beat 4 eggs, put in pan with oysters and cook 
together; serve on buttered toast. 

FANCY ROAST 

Cook 12 Eastern oysters in their own juice; add butter, pepper, salt and Vi 
teacup of catsup; let it come to a boil; serve in hot dish on buttered toast. 

PEPPER ROAST 

Follow recipe for Fancy Roast, adding to it a tablespoon of green peppers, 
chopped very fine. 

HANGTOWN FRY 
Spread flat omelette with thin broiled bacon; cover with fried oysters. 

58 
Buy your Sea Foods from the Victor-Johnson Co. — "The House of Quality Sea Foods" 




For Extra Careful 
Extra Thorough 



FRENCH 
DRY 
x ^ CLEANING 



and an Absolute 

Insurance Against Loss 

CALL THE ORIGINAL 

FRENCH CLEANERS & DYERS 

INCORPORATED 



Phone Riverside 335 

Corner Third and Washington Sts., 
Spokane, Wash. 



59 




No waste thru spoiled foods 

■ /*VERY time an un watched pot burns — 
-■--'VERY time a baking is ruined because you 
guessed at the heat of your oven, and guessed wrong — 
Your money is being thrown away in spoiled food. You 
can prevent this big waste of time and money by re- 
placing your old stove with a new, improved 



ANGLIRDN' 



GAS RANGE 



This fine range is equipped with the lamous Lorain Oven 
Heat Regulator. This attachment gives you measured and 
controlled oven heat, by a mere turn of the notched red wheel ! 
Read the free booklet on Lorain cooking, and see Lorain 
demonstrated at our store now ! 



LORAIN 

OVEN HEAT 
REGULATOR 




One easy turn of 
the Lorain red wheel 
gives you a choice 
of 44 measured and 
controlled oven 
heats for any kind 
of oven cooking or 
baking. 



Spokane Gas & Fuel Company 

Main 3485 25 Monroe Street 



\ 



60 



VEGETABLES 



HINTS ON COOKING AND SERVING 

Vegetables should be boiled in soft water, if obtainable. The water should only 
be allowed to come to a boil before putting in the vegetables. It is best to boil 
vegetables by themselves and to boil quickly. When done, take them up immediately 
and drain. 

In cooking all vegetables, a teaspoon of salt for each 2 quarts of water is 
allowed. Most vegetables are eaten dressed with salt, pepper and butter, but 
sometimes a piece of lean pork is broiled with them, which seasons them suffi- 
ciently. 

In stewing or boiling, always add vegtables to boiling water. 

Salt (1 teaspoon to each quart of water) may be added to the water in which 
all green vegetables, potatoes or onions are cooked. Do not add salt to parsnips, 
salsify, carrots or turnips or other underground vegetables until after cooking. Do 
not allow vegetables to boil too rapidly — it dissipates the flavor and spoils the 
color. Cook in a vessel without a cover. 

SWEET POTATOES — SOUTHERN STYLE 

Four boiled sweet potatoes, ^4 pound butter, 1 tablespoon water, lemon juice, 
^4 cup brown sugar. Skin boiled potatoes and quarter; place in baking dish, with 
butter on top; sprinkle with the brown sugar; add the water and a little lemon 
juice; brown in over and serve hot. 

GLAZED SWEET POTATOES 

Six medium-sized potatoes, V2 cup sugar, % cup water, 3 tablespoons butter. 
Wash and pare potatoes; cook 10 minutes in boiling, salted water; drain, cut in 
halves lengthwise and put in a buttered pan; make a syrup by boiling 3 minutes 
the sugar and water; add butter; brush potatoes with syrup and bake 15 minutes, 
beating twice with remaining syrup. 

SPINACH WITHOUT WATER 

The following method is very little known and has the advantage of preserving 
all the nutriment in the spinach and avoiding the use of boiling water: Having 
washed and drained the spinach very thoroughly, cut it up in coarse pieces and 
put it in a saucepan in which you have heated 3V2 ounces of butter to every 
pound of spinach; add salt, grated nutmeg and cook sharply. 

SPINACH "AU NATURAL" 

Having cooked the spinach in salt water as before, wash and drain the leaves 
carefully, then remove all water and give them a few strokes with the knife with- 
out chopping them up; put them into a frying pan in which you have heated 
some butter; salt to taste and serve very hot. This method of preparing spinach 
is very much appreciated in Italy, where they add filets of anchovies to it. 

DUCHESSE POTATOES 

Take freshly boiled and mashed potatoes or some that are left over; add to 
them the beaten yolk of egg; place in a greased tin and form in balls, hearts or 
flat cakes; brush with the beaten white and brown in oven. 

POTATOES WITH CHEESE 
Hash 8 cold boiled potatoes, mix them with V2 cup milk, Y2 ounce of good butter, 
a pinch of salt and pepper and a very small dash of grated nutmeg; place them in a 
dish, sprinkle over them 2 tablespoons of grated American cheese, 2 tablespoons of 
grated bread crumbs, a large teaspoon of melted butter and brown in the oven for 
10 minutes. 

BAKED PEPPERS 
Cold rice and stewed tomatoes can be made into a delicate filling for peppers 
by seasoning highly with spices and a little onion. These can either be baked 
directly* or can first be fried in hot butter or olive oil, then put in a baking dish 

61 

Use "Buckeye" Flavoring Extracts, Baking Powder and Spices for Best Results 

At Your Grocer's 



CUPID'S BOOK 

covered with a cup of white stock and baked for V2 hour or more. All baked 
peppers are better when cooked in stock. 

LYONNAISE POTATOES — NO. 1 

Cook 1 onion thickly sliced in 3 tablespoons butter until delicately browned; 
remove onion and keep in a warm place; add 3 cups cold boiled potatoes, cut in 
slices; sprinkle with salt, pepper and stir until well mixed with butter; press to 
one side of spider and let brown richly underneath, then -sprinkle onions over pota- 
toes; let heat thoroughly; turn on a hot serving platter, top side down; sprinkle 
with finely chopped parsley. Cooking the onion separately lessens the danger of 
burning. 

LYONNAISE POTATOES — NO. 2 

One pint boiled potatoes, cold, Y2 teaspoon salt, pinch of pepper, l teaspoon 
chopped onion, 2 tablespoons beef dripping or butter, 2 tablespoons chopped 
parsley. Cut the potatoes into slices, season with the salt and pepper; fry the 
onions in the dripping till light brown; put in the potato and cook till it has taken 
up the fat; add the chopped parsley and serve. 

ARTICHOKE SAUTE 

Cut 6 fine, green artichokes into quarters and remove the chokes; trim the 
leaves neatly and parboil them 5 minutes in salted water; drain; lay them in a 
casserole, season with salt, pepper and % cup butter; Y± cup mushrooms, chopped 
fine, may be added; cover and cook in a moderate oven 25 minutes. Serve with 
any desired sauce; Hollandaise is best. 

BAKED BEANS 

One quart navy beans, Y2 pound fat salt pork or 1Y2 pounds brisket of beef, 
Y2 tablespoon mustard, 1 tablespoon salt, 2 tablespoons molasses, 3 tablespoons 
sugar, 1 cup boiling water. Wash, pick beans over, cover with cold water and 
let soak over night; in the morning cover with fresh water, heat slowly and let 
cook just below the boiling point until the skins burst, which is best determined by 
taking a few on the tip of the spoon and blowing over them; if done, the skins 
will burst; when done, drain beans and put in pot with the brisket of beef; if 
pork is used, scald it, cut through the rind in ^-inch strips, bury in beans, leaving 
rind exposed; mix mustard, salt, sugar, molasses and water and pour over beans 
and add enough more water to cover them; cover pot and bake slowly 6 or 8 
hours; uncover pot the last hour so that pork will brown and crisp. 

BRUSSELS SPROUTS 
For Six Persons. Time of Preparation, Two Hours 
Three pounds Brussels sprouts, 3 ounces butter, 1 tablespoon flour, 1 pint 
stock, a pinch of nutmeg, a pinch of corbonate of soda, a pinch of pepper, salt, 
1 teaspoon chopped parsley, Y2 teaspoon chopped onion. Throw the sprouts, after 
removing the outer leaves, into 3 quarts boiling water, with salt and a pinch of 
carbonate of soda; after bringing up to the boil again, take the sprouts out and 
drain on a sieve and then on a dry cloth, so that no water remains in them; 
brown an ounce of butter with the flour and sugar, add the stock, chopped onion 
and parsley, pepper, nutmeg and the remaining butter; boil up well, then put in 
the sprouts and allow all to simmer gently for half an hour. 

SPINACH COOKED IN BUTTER 

Cook the spinach leaves in a pan with salted* water; wash them freely with 
water to remove the sand which they may contain completely; drain them, press 
out the moisture and chop them up very fine; heat some butter in a saucepan, 
add the chopped spinach; stir them up with a long wooden spoon, adding a little 
butter; this will work out all the moisture; season them to taste with salt and a 
little scraped nutmeg, finished by adding 1Y2 ounces of fine butter. 

BOILED GREEN CORN 

After removing husks and threads, boil from 10 to 20 minutes in clear water; 
take from water and place on platter covered with napkin, drawing corners of 
napkin over corn, or it may be cut from cob and seasoned with salt and butter. 

CORN A LA SOUTHERN 

To 1 can chopped corn add 2 eggs, slightly beaten, 1 teaspoon salt, % teaspoon 
pepper, 1Y2 tablespoons melted butter and 1 pint milk; put into a buttered baking 
dish and leave in a slow oven. 

62 



CUPID'S BOOK 

BAKED POTATOES 

Select smooth, medium-sized potatoes and wash with a brush; place in a 
dripping pan and bake in a hot oven 40 minutes, or until soft; remove from oven 
and serve while hot. 

BOILED POTATOES 

Select potatoes of uniform size; wash, pare and drop at once into cold water 
to prevent their being discolored; soak Y2 hour in fall and 1 to 2 hours in winter 
and spring; cook in salted water until soft. For 7 potatoes allow 1 tablespoon 
salt, and boiling water to cover. 

BOILED ASPARAGUS 

Cut off lower parts of stalks as far down as they will snap; untie bunches, 
wash, remove scales and tie again; cook in boiling salted water about 15 minutes 
or until soft, leaving the tips out of the water for the first 10 minutes; drain, re- 
move string and spread with butter, allowing 1Y2 tablespoons butter to each bunch 
of asparagus. This vegetable is often broken into small pieces for boiling, allow- 
ing the tips to cook a shorter time than the remainder of the stock. 

STRING BEANS 

Remove strings and break in 1-inch pieces; wash and cook in clear water, 
adding salt last Vvl hour; drain reasonably dry and add butter. 

BAKED CAULIFLOWER 

One and one-half pounds cauliflower, 2 ounces butter, 1 gill milk, V2 tablespoon 
meat extract, 2 tablespoons flour, a pinch of ground mace. Boil the cauliflower; heat 
1Y2 ounces butter and 2 tablespoons flour to a golden brown; add the milk and % 
pint of the water in which the cauliflower has been boiled with % teaspoon meat 
extract dissolved in it; boil this sauce till thick, then flavor with ground mace; strain 
and pour over the cauliflower, which has been placed in a deep dish; melt the re- 
maining Y2 ounce butter, pour it over, sprinkle with grated Parmesan cheese and 
bake in a hot oven, standing the dish in a pan of boiling water. 

ESCALLOPED CORN 

Six ears of cooked corn or 1 can of corn, V2 cup corn liquid, 3 tablespoons 
milk, 1 teaspoon sugar, 1 teaspoon salt, % teaspoon pepper, 2 tablespoons flour, 
1 cup bread crumbs, 1 tablespoon butter. Cut fresh boiled corn, too old to serve 
on cobs, from the cob, or use the pulp of 1 can of corn; mix corn with the salt, 
pepper, flour and sugar and add the liquids; melt the butter, mix with the bread 
crumbs and cover bottom of a pudding dish with half of the crumbs; add the corn 
mixture and cover with the rest of the crumbs; bake in a moderate oven about 20 
minutes and serve hot in pudding dish. 

MACARONI WITH TOMATOES AND MUSHROOMS 

One-half pound macaroni, 2 quarts boiling water, 2 teaspoons salt, 1 tablespoon 
butter, 1 small onion, cut fine, 1 teaspoon flour, cup of hot beef or chicken 
stock, 1 pint stewed tomatoes, 1 tablespoon finely chopped mushrooms, 1 teaspoon 
salt, cayenne pepper, 1 teaspoon parsley, chopped, 3 tablespoons grated Parmesan 
cheese. Add salt and then the macaroni to the boiling water; let boil 20 minutes, 
stirring to avoid sticking to the bottom of the kettle; drain in colander; pour 1 
cup of cold water through it, then return to cleared kettle. 

63 

Use "Buckeye" Flavoring Extracts, Baking Powder and Spices for Best Results 

At Your Grocer's 

Spokane-5 



CUPID'S BOOK 

POTATO PANCAKES 

Six raw grated potatoes, 3 whole eggs, a pinch of baking powder. 1 tablespoon 
flour, a little milk. Peel large potatoes and soak several hours in cold water; grate, 
drain and for every pint allow 2 eggs, about 1 tablespoon flour, % teaspoon salt, 
a little pepper; beat eggs well and mix with the rest of the ingredients; drop by 
spoons on a hot buttered spider in small cakes; turn and brown on both sides. 
Serve with apple sauce or catsup. 

O'BRIEN POTATOES 

Fry 3 cups potato cubes in deep fat; drain on brown paper, and sprinkle with 
salt; cook a slice of onion in lM$ tablespoon butter about 3 minutes; remove 
the onion and add to butter 3 pimentoes (canned), cut fine; when this is thor- 
oughly heated, add potatoes, stir well and serve hot with parsley. 

STUFFED PEPPERS 

Six green peppers, 1 onion, chopped fine, 2 tablespoons of butter, 4 tablespoons 
of chopped mushrooms, 1/3 cup brown sauce, 3 tablespoons bread crumbs, 4 table- 
spoons lean raw ham, chopped, salt, pepper and buttered bread crumbs. Cut a 
slice from stem end of each pepper, remove the seeds and parboil peppers about 
35 minutes; cook onion in butter 3 minutes, add mushrooms and ham, cook a 
minute, then add brown sauce and crumbs; cool the mixture; put into peppers, 
cover with buttered bread crumbs, salt and bake 10 minutes. Serve on toast 
with brown sauce. 

BAKED WINTER SQUASH 

Cut in 3-inch squares; remove seeds and stringy portion; place in a dripping 

pan; season with salt and pepper, and for each square add % teaspoon molasses 

and % teaspoon melted butter; bake about 1 hour, or until soft, in a moderate 

over, keeping covered the first Vz hour. Serve in the shell with dots of butter. 

CORN FRITTERS 

One can corn, 1 cup flour, 1 teaspoon of baking powder, 2 teaspoons salt, ^4 
teaspoon paprika, 2 eggs. Chop corn and add flour, baking powder, salt and 
paprika mixed and sifted, then add the yolks of eggs beaten thick, and fold in 
whites beaten stiff; cook in fresh, hot lard and drain. 

MEXICAN STUFFED CHILI 

Select even-sized green peppers and cut the stems, seed and core; make a 
stuffing of sardines and cheese, chopped fine; mix it with 1 egg; stuff the pep- 
pers with this; dip in thick butter and fry in deep, hot fat; drain in a colander; 
when done serve very hot. 

RICE CROQUETTES 

One teacup of rice; boil 1 quart milk; when boiled and hot add a piece of butter 
the size of an egg, 2 tablespoons of sugar, 2 eggs, juice and grated peel of 1 lemon; 
stir this up well; have ready the yolks of 2 eggs, beaten on a plate, cracker crumbs 
on another; make the rice in rolls and dip in the eggs and crumbs. Fry them in 
butter. Serve hot. 

FRIED PARSNIPS 

Boil until tender, scrape off the skin and cut in lengthwise slices; dredge with 
flour and fry in hot drippings, turning when one side is browned. 

LIMA BEANS 

Shell them in cold water; let them lie % hour or longer; put them into a 
saucepan with plenty of boiling water, a little salt and cook unti tender; drain 
and butter well and pepper to taste. 

64 
Use "Buckeye" Flavoring Extracts, Baking Powder and Spices for Best Results 

At Your Grocer's 



CUPID'S BOOK 

POTATO AU GRATIN 

Slice cold boiled potatoes; make a cream sauce from 2 tablespoons each of 
butter and flour, 1 level teaspoon of salt, Vs teaspoon of pepper; heat butter; add 
flour and seasoning; when hot, add milk gradually and cook smoothly; add potatoes; 
let heat through and put in buttered individual dishes or baking dish; fold lightly 
some finely chopped cheese and bake about 10 minutes in a moderate oven. 

POTATO CAKES 

Roast some potatoes in the oven; when done, skin and pound in a mortar with 
a small piece of butter, warmed in a little milk; chop a shallot and a little parsley 
very finely, mix well with the potatoes, add pepper, salt; shape into cakes, egg and 
bread crumb them and fry a light brown. 

CARROTS AND OTHER ROOT VEGETABLES 

Scrape or pare carrots, parsnips, turnips. Dice and cook gently in unsalted 
water till tender; drain and reheat in seasoned butter, 1 tablespoon to 1 pint, or 
in a drawn butter or white sauce. In early -summer, when roots are small, water 
should be salted. Onions should also be boiled in salted water, then finished as 
here directed. 

STEWED CORN 

Husk corn; draw sharp knife down center of each row of grain; press out pulp 
with back of knife; to 1 pint add % teaspoon each salt and sugar, dash pepper, 
V2 cup milk; heat and simmer 10 minutes. 

FRIED EGGPLANT 

Pare and slice the eggplant as desired and dip at once into tgg (previously 
seasoned with salt and pepper) and then into cornstarch, seeing to it that every 
part is well covered; fry in deep hot fat to a rich brown; lay on brown paper 
until served, to absorb any extra grease. Eggplant cooked in this way will be 
found very delicate and digestible. 

CREAMED CAULIFLOWER 

Remove leaves, cut off stock and soak about 30 minutes (head down) in cold 
water to cover; cook (head up) 20 minutes, or until soft, in boiling salted water; 
drain, separate and reheat in 1% cups white sauce. 



Relishes To Be Served With Meats 



Roast Veal 
Tomato Sauce 
Horseradish Sauce 

Roast Canvasback Duck 

Apple Bread 
Black Currant Jelly 

Roast Quail 
Currant Jelly 
Celery Sauce 

Roast Chicken 
Bread Sauce 

Fried Chicken 

Cream Gravy 
Corn Fritters 

Roast Duck 

Orange Salad 
Cold Boiled Tongue 

Sauce Tartare 

Olives stuffed with 
Peppers 
Pork Sausage 

Tart Apple Sauce 

Fried Apples 



Frizzled Beef 

Horseradish 
Pork Croquettes 

Tomato Sauce 
Corned Beef 

Mustard 
Lobster Cutlet 

Sauce Tartare 
Sweetbread Cutlet 

Caper Sauce 
Reed Birds 

Fried Hominy with 
Celery 
Cold Boiled Fish 

Sliced Lemon and 
Olives 
Roast Beef 

Tomato Catsup 

Grated Horseradish 

Currant Jelly 
Roast Mutton 

Stewed Gooseberries 
Roast Lamb 

Mint Sauce 

65 



Roast Pork 
Apple Sauce 

Roast Turkey 

Cranberry or Celery 
Plum, Grape Sauce 

Roast Chicken 
Currant Jelly 

Boiled Turkey 

Oyster Sauce 

Broiled Steak 

Mushrooms 

Fried Onions 
Pigeon Pie 

Mushroom Sauce 
Roast Goose 

Tart Apple Sauce 
Fried Salmon 

Egg Sauce 
Broiled Mackerel 

Stewed Gooseberries 
Boiled or Baked Fish 

White Cream Sauce 

Drawn Butter Sauce 



D RIDES! Be particular and use the BEST. 
" Use "Buckeye Food Products." There are 

none better 




Ask your grocer for "BUCKEYE FOOD PRODUCTS," as 
every package is guaranteed to please or money refunded. 

Buckeye Flavoring Extracts Buckeye Baking Powder 

Buckeye Ground Spices Buckeye Peanut Butter 

Buckeye Ammonia and Blueing, Etc., Etc. 

Made in Washington — Sold Everywhere 

BUCKEYE EXTRACT COMPANY 

OLYMPIA WASHINGTON 



ee 



JELLIES, JAMS, PRESERVES 
MARMALADE, Etc. 

IMPORTANT POINTS FOR JELLY MAKING 

To Prepare Glasses for Jelly 

Wash glasses and put in a kettle of cold water; place on range and heat water 
gradually to the boiling point; remove glasses and drain; place glasses while 
filling on a cloth wrung out of hot water. 

To Make a Jelly Bag 
Fold 2 opposite corners of a piece of cotton or wool flannel % yard long; 
sew up in the form of a cornucopia, rounding at the end; fell the seam to make 
more secure; bind the top with tape and finish with 2 or 3 heavy tape loops by 
which it may be hung. 

To Heat Sugar 
Put in a graniteware pan or dish and place in a moderate oven, leaving the 
oven door ajar; stir occasionally that sugar may heat evenly and not become 
brown. 

In Making Jelly 
If you get it too sweet and have no more juice put in a little pure cider vin- 
egar; the jelly will "jell" at once and the flavor will not be impaired. 

STRAWBERRY JAM 

To 6 pounds of strawberries allow 3 pounds of sugar; procure some fine scarlet 
strawberries, strip off the stalks and put them into a preserving pan over a mod- 
erate fire; boil them for half an hour, keeping them constantly stirred; break the 
sugar into small pieces and mix with the strawberries after they have been re- 
moved from the fire; then place it again over the fire and boil for another Ms 
hour very quickly; cover with paraffine. 

GRAPE MARMALADE 

Take sound grapes, heat and remove the seeds, then measure and allow meas- 
ure for measure of fruit and sugar; place all together in a preserving kettle 
and boil slowly 25 minutes; add the juice of 1 lemon to every quart of fruit; set 
away in jelly glasses. 

TO PRESERVE PLUMS 

To every pound of fruit allow % pound of sugar; divide the plums; take out 
the stones and put the fruit on a dish with pounded sugar strewed over; the 
next day put them into a preserving pan and let them simmer gently by the 
side of the fire for about 30 minutes, then boil them quickly, removing the scum 
as it rises, and keep them constantly stirred, or the jam will stick to the bottom 
of the pan; crack .the stones and add, the kernels to the preserve when it boils. 

QUINCE PRESERVES 

Pare and core the fruit and boil till very tender; make a syrup of 1 pound of 
sugar for each pound of the fruit and after removing the scum, boil the quinces 
in this syrup for M> hour. 

BLACKBERRY JAM 

Crush a quart of fully ripe blackberries with 1 pound of the best loaf sugar 
pounded very fine; put it into a preserving pan and set it over a gentle fire until 
thick; add a glass of boiled cider and stir it again over the fire for about }4 hour; 
then put into pots and when cold tie them over. 

ORANGE JELLY 

Grate the rind of 6 oranges and 3 lemons into a granite kettle; now squeeze 
in the juice, add 1 cup of water and % pound of sugar to each pint of juice; 
boil all together until a rich syrup is formed; have ready 1 ounce of gelatine 
dissolved in 1 pint of warm water; now add syrup; strain the jelly and pour 
into glasses. 

67 



CUPID'S BOOK 

LOVERS' MARMALADE 

Slice very thin 3 thin-skinned oranges, 2 grape fruit and 2 lemons; remove 
seeds; cover fruit with cold water; let stand 24 hours; bring to a boil and allow 
to simmer 15 minutes; place in stone crock and allow to stand 24 hours; measure 
and add equal quantity of sugar; boil until it jells; pour in glasses and cover 
with paraffine. 



APPLE JELLY 

Select sound, red, fine-flavored apples, not too ripe. Wash, wipe and core; 
place in a granite kettle, cover with water and let cook slowly until the apples 
look red; pour into a muslin bag and drain; return juice to a clean kettle and boil 
% hour;, skim; now measure and to every pint of juice allow 1 pound of sugar; 
boil quickly for 10 minutes. Red apples will give jelly the color of wine, while 
that from light fruit will be like amber. 



SPICED FRUITS 

These are also called sweet pickle fruits. For 4 pounds prepared fruit allow 
1 pint vinegar, 2 pounds brown sugar, %■ cup whole spices. — cloves, allspice, stick 
cinnamon and cassia -bude; tie spices in thin muslin bag, boil 10 minutes with 
vinegar and sugar; skim; add fruit; cook till tender; boil down syrup; pour over 
fruit in jars and seal. If put in stone pots, boil syrup 3 successive mornings and 
pour over fruit. Currants, peaches, grapes, pears and berries may be prepared in 
this way, also ripe cucumbers, muskmelons and watermelon rind. 

PLUM JELLY 
Take plums not too ripe, put in a granite pan and set in a pan of water over 
the fire; let the water boil gently till all the juice has come from the fruit; strain 
through a flanriel bag and boil with an equal weight of sugar 20 minutes. 

CRABAPPLE JELLY 

Select juicy apples; mealy ones are no good. Wash and quarter and put into 
a preserving kettle over the fire with a teacup of water; if necessary add more 
water as it evaporates^ when boiled to a pulp strain the apples through a flannel 
bag, then proceed as for other jelly. 

PRESERVED PEACHES 

Select the yellow, red-cheeked ones if possible; skin same as tomatoes, by 
pouring on boiling water, then thrusting them in cold water and separate in halves; 
proceed as for preserving cherries, only using % pound of sugar to every pound 
of fruit. 

PRESERVED CHERRIES 

Select the large cherries; remove the stems and stone them carefully; to each 
pound of sugar allow 1 pound of cherries; put fruit in granite pan and pour 
sugar over them; stir up and let stand over night to candy; in the morning put all 
into the preserving pan, place on the stove and boil gently until the cherries 
look clear, skimming off the scum as it rises; when the cherries have become 
quite clear, remove the pan from the stove and seal. Keep in dry, dark closet. 

PRESERVED TOMATOES 

A pound of sugar to a pound of tomatoes. Take 6 pounds of each; the peel 
and juice of 4 lemon and ^4 pound of ginger tied up in a bag; put on the side 
of the range and boil slowly for 3 hours. 

68 

Use "Buckeye" Flavoring Extracts, Baking Powder and Spices for Best Results 

At Your Grocer's 



| 

3 



PICKLES 



3 



FRENCH PICKLES 
Slice green tomatoes with onions; add salt; let stand over night; drain thor- 
oughly and let boil % hour with vinegar; sugar to taste; white mustard seed, all- 
spice, cloves, cinnamon, ginger and little mustard. 

GREEN PEPPER MANGOES 

Secure nice large peppers; cut a slit in them and take out the seed; slice a head 
of cabbage very fine; salt it as for slaw and mix very thick with black mustard seed; 
fill the peppers with this dressing and sew up the slit; lay them in a jar and pour 
over enough cold vinegar to cover them. 

GREEN TOMATO PICKLE 

Slice 1 peck of green tomatoes; add 1 cup of salt and let them stand over night; 
drain the water from them and add 1 gallon of vinegar, 1 large spoon of allspice, 
1 teaspoon of cloves, 1 tablespoon of cinnamon, Vi teaspoon of ground mustard, 4 
cups of sugar, 1 cup of grated horseradish and simmer together 10 minutes; add 
more sugar. 

SWEET TOMATO PICKLES 

Eight pounds of ripe tomatoes, 4 pounds of sugar, % ounce each of cloves, 
allspice and cinnamon; peel the fruit and boil 1% hours; when partly cold add Vi 
pint of vinegar. Put away in jars. 

PICCALILLI 

Mix tomatoes, chopped and drained, with chopped onions, red and green pep- 
pers and horseradish; add spices, sugar and a little curry powder; cover with vinegar 
and boil 1 hour. 

PICCALILLI 

Two cauliflowers, 2 quarts green tomatoes, 1 quart small onions, 24 medium- 
sized cucumbers, 3 green peppers. Chop all together and soak over night in a 
weak brine; next day scald for a few minutes, then drain through a colander; make 
a dressing with the following: % pound mustard, 4 teaspoons celery seed, 5 cups 
sugar, 1 cup flour, % ounce tumeric. Mix all of these ingredients to a smooth paste; 
then add them to 3 quarts of boiling vinegar and allow to boil for 2 minutes; pour 
it over the pickle and when cold bottle and seal with paraffine. This pickle will 
keep for a year. Salt may be used instead of the brine and cabbage instead of the 
cauliflower, if preferred. 

WATERMELON PICKLES 

Boil the melon until you can stick a fork through it readily. To 7 pounds of 
fruit take 3 pounds of sugar, 1 quart of vinegar and 1 ounce each of cinnamon, 
cloves and allspice; scald the vinegar, put sugar and spices in and pour over the 
melon. Do this for 3 mornings. 

BRINE FOR CUCUMBERS 

Wash them in clear water, lay them in a jar and sprinkle them well with salt; as 
you lay in fresh cucumbers, add more salt. They will make their own brine. 

CHOW CHOW 

Twenty-five young, tiny cucumbers, 15 onions sliced, 2 quarts of string beans, 
cut in halves, 4 quarts of green tomatoes, sliced and chopped coarsely, 2 large heads 
of white cabbage. Prepare these; articles and put them in a stone jar in layers with 
a slight sprinkling of salt between them; let them stand 12 hours, then drain off the 
brine; now put the vegetables in a kettle over the fire, sprinkling through them 4 
red peppers, chopped coarsely, 4 tablespoons of mustard seed, 2 tablespoons each 
of celery seed, whole allspice and whole cloves and a cup of sugar; pour on enough 
of the best cider vinegar to cover; cover tightly and simmer well until thoroughly 
cooked. Put in glass jars when hot. 

69 

Use "Buckeye" Flavoring Extracts, Baking Powder and Spices for Best Result" 

At Your Grocer's 



CUPID'S BOOK 

CHILI SAUCE 

One dozen ripe tomatoes, 4 large onions, 4 red peppers, all chopped fine, 4 cups 
vinegar, 2 tablespoons salt, 2 teaspoons each ground colves, cinnamon and ginger; 
boil 2 hours. 

DILL PICKLES 

Take medium-sized cucumbers, wash in cold water, then fill quart jars; put in 
each jar % cup vinegar, 1 tablespoon sugar, 2 tablespoons salt, pinch of pickling 
spices and spray of dill; fill rest of space in jars with cold water and seal. These 
pickles are very good and will keep indefinitely. 

EAST INDIA APPLE CHUTNEY 

Two dozen apples, 6 chili peppers, 3 onions, garlic to taste, 3 pounds seeded 
raisins, 1 quart cider vinegar, juice of 8 lemons, 4 cups brown sugar, 14 teaspoon 
cayenne pepper, 1 tablespoon ground ginger, salt to taste. Pare, core and chop 
apples, raisins, onions and peppers very fine;. add the vinegar and cook 1 hour; 
then add the other ingredients and cook 1 hour longer, stirring often with wooden 
spoon. This will keep indefinitely. A little of this chutney will improve all Spanish 
dishes, curried meats and stews. 

SOUR CUCUMBER PICKLES 

Select small cucumbers, wash, sprinkle with salt; cover with cold water, using 1 
cup of salt for each gallon water; allow to stand 12 to 14 hours; rinse and pack in 
fruit jars; add green or red peppers, also whole spices; cover with scalding vinegar. 
If stored in earthen crock, place a plate with weight on top to keep the pickles in 
the vinegar, then cover the jar. These pickles will keep indefinitely. 

SWEET CUCUMBER PICKLES 
Prepare as sour pickles except add sugar to taste in the hot vinegar; ginger root 
and horseradish may be added to vinegar. 




70 
Use "Buckeye" Flavoring Extracts, Baking Powder and Spices for Best Results 

At Your Grocer's 




^M^^^MSMMMSMSMMSMMmmSMSMMMma£ 



Spanish and Italian 



DISHES 



*^^r^;r^^[^rr8?if^rr^f^^i^ 



SPANISH DISH 

Take 1 cup boiled rice, then fry 2 tomatoes and V% onion together; season with 
pepper, salt, Y2 teaspoon sugar and Vi chili pepper; mix with rice, all together; 
then add 4 tablespoons of grated Swiss cheese and 1 cup of cooked shrimps; cook 
on back of stove Vi hour. Very good, eaten hot or cold. 

SPANISH BEANS 

Soak 2 cups pink beans over night; in the morning cover beans with water; add 
a small onion and boil until beans will mash between fingers; drain the liquid 
from the beans, but do not; throw it away; into a frying pan, not less than 2 inches 
deep, put a large cooking spoon of fresh lard; allow it to become quite clear; after 
laying in as many beans as will absorb lard, place the pan over a hot fire and mix 
beans and lard thoroughly together until the beans appear to have a coating of 
lard and begin to burst; add a cup of the liquid in! which the beans were boiled and 
gently crush the beans with a spoon, but do not mash; now add the remainder of 
the liquid and allow to simmer on the back of stove for % to 1 hour, or until the 
beans are of the consistency desired, either with considerable liquid (but thick) or 
quite dry. Success depends upon observing the following rules: Do not add salt 
until the beans are boiled soft. The onion is not perceptible after cooking, only 
gives the beans the characteristic Mexican taste, which no spice can produce. Have 
the lard at boiling point. Mexican chili may be added after the last portion of 
liquid is used. 

To prepare Mexican chili, take 6 dry chili peppers, remove seeds and cover with 
water and boil 10 minutes; chop fine and run through sieve to remove skins; put 
in as much or as little, according to how hot you like them. 

SPANISH RICE 

Take 3 onions, cut them up fine, and a small piece of garlic cut fine, and put 
them in a pan with 2 or 3 large green peppers; cut; small and fry not too brown; 
then add 1 can of tomatoes, salt and pepper to taste and a little prepared chili con 
carne; now have a small pan with hot lard; put in rice and fry not too brown; 
then take rice and mix together with the sauce and fry slowly for about 1 hour. 
You will find this a delicious dish, also a very fine vegetable. 

STRING BEANS SPANISH 
Boil 1 pound of string beans until tender; let them cool; beat the whites of 3 
eggs until thick; put in the yellow, beat 5 minutes more; take 6 or 7 string beans 
and roll them in the t,gg and fry them and serve with tomato sauce. 

SPANISH MEAT PIE 

Two pounds round steak; trim off fat, fry out over slow fire, adding other short- 
ening if not enough fat on meat; when hot, add 1 thick slice of onion, cut fine, 
and 2 tablespoons bell pepper (red or green), chopped fine; cook, stirring frequently, 
until onion is a yellow color; cut meat in small pieces, season with salt and pepper, 
dust well with flour; bring fat in pan to smoking point; add meat, stirr constantly 
until well browned; add water to cover; cook slowly until meat is tender; remove 
meat from liquid, put in deep earthen baking dish, add 2 cups white potatoes cut in 
thick slices and boiled 5 minutes in salted water; thicken liquid left in pan with 2 
tablespoons flour for every cup of liquid; add more seasoning if necessary; turn 
over the meat and potato; allow to cool while making crust. 

Crust 

Three cups flour, 2 tablespoons baking powder, 1Y2 teaspoons salt, 6 tablespoons 
shortening. Rub into flour with finger tips; wet to stiff dough with cold water; 
roll out in a round cake to fit top of baking dish; make 2 or 3 small openings in top 
to let out steam; place cover over meat; brush top with a little milk; put into oven, 
cook long enough to bake crust thoroughly, about 20 minutes. 

71 



CUPID'S BOOK 

SPAGHETTI IT^LIENNE 

Three-fourths pound spaghetti, 3 quarts boiling water, 1 tablespoon salt, 2 table- 
spoons butter, % teaspoon white pepper, a little nutmeg, 1 cup tomato sauce, 2 
ounces grated Parmesan or Swiss cheese or 1 ounce of each. Slide spaghetti with- 
out breaking it in the boiling water gradually and boil 25 minutes; drain; place butter 
in saucepan, salt, pepper and nutmeg; let cook a few minutes; add the hot tomato 
sauce; gently mix with a fork, then add cheese and mix well again with a fork 
for 1 minute or longer; dress on a hot dish and serve. 

ROYAL ITALIAN PASTE 

Chop fine, separately, 3 large onions, Y2 garlic, % stalk celery, Vi cup dried 
mushrooms (soaked in water Y2 hour), 1 can tomatoes, salt, black pepper, 3 or 4 
chili capinas, 2 bay leaves, 2 cloves, few sprigs of each, rosemary and parsley. Have 
a good-sized chicken (not too young), older one preferred, cut as for frying, wash 
and dry. Put into kettle with hot olive oil and brown thoroughly; add onions and 
brown, then garlic and celery, allowing to cook a few minutes; add tomatoes and 
flavorings, cooking all together about 3 hours; stir often to prevent burning. When 
chicken becomes tender, remove. Beef may be substituted, if desired. Take about 
2 pounds spaghetti, put in kettle of boiling water (salted); cook until done; then drain, 
dashing cold water over it to prevent sticking. Serve on hot dish, first a layer of 
spaghetti, sprinkle with Parmesan cheese, then a layer of sauce, repeating until 
dish is full. 

PAPRIKA CHICKEN 
Clean and prepare fat chicken as for roasting; make a good stuffing of bread 
crumbs, chopped onions, herbs to season to taste, binding together with the yolks 
of 2 or 3 eggs; stuff the fowl with it; tie on the breast slices of salt pork and lemon, 
then wrap and tie the whole in stout waxed paper; place in a casserole (or any tight- 
covered baking dish) ; add enough chicken or veal stock to cover it and 1 clove, a 
whole onion and some chopped parsley; put the lid on and cook in a hot oven 1 
hour; strain the sauce, then add 1 cup of hot cream, the yolk of 1 egg, 1 tablespoon 
of butter, 1 tablespoon of minced parsley and sufficient paprika to give not only 
a decided flavor, but to tinge it pink; when the chicken is quite done (cooking it 
with this sauce as much longer as necessary to make it tender), serve it with the 
sauce poured over it and bordered with hot boiled rice. 

CHILI CON CARNE 

One and one-half pounds of Mexican chili beans, 6 good-sized onions, 6 cloves, 
garlic, 1 can tomatoes, % teaspoon paprika, a bay leaf, \Vi pounds hamburger, 3 
tablespoons of Gebhardt's Eagle Chili Powder, salt to taste. Soak the beans over 
night, then cook until done; add can of tomatoes and paprika, bay leaf, salt, slice 
the onions and garlic; fry until done. Put the hamburger into a perfectly dry 
frying pan, no grease; cook until it is separated and dry; make a paste of the chili 
powder; add all to the beans and cook a little longer. 

POLENTI 

Ground meat, 1 medium sized chopped onion. 1 egg, 2 tablespoons bread crumbs, 
4 sprigs each of parsley and rosemary, salt and pepper. 

Mix well; make into small balls; drop into the sauce and boil for 40 minutes. 

Sauce: 1 quart tomatoes, 1 pint water, 1 onion, 1 clove garlic, 2 bay leaves. 
Boil one hour, rub through colander and return to stove; add heaping teaspoon lard, 
some salt and Chili powder to taste. When the balls have cooked sufficiently, place 
them around a mound of hot boiled rice or snaghetti, pour the tomato sauce over 
the whole and cover with a layer of finely chopped cheese. 




72 

Use "Buckeye" Flavoring Extracts, Baking Powder and Spices for Best Results 

At Your Grocer's 



These Extra-ordinary recipes contributed by the Frisbie Maple Sugar and 
Maple Syrup Co., Spokane, Wash. 



■* 



MAPLE PARFAIT 

Four eggs, 1 cup FRISBIE'S Cane and Maple Syrup, hot, 1 pint of 
thick cream. Beat eggs slightly and pour syrup on slowly; cook until 
mixture thickens; cool and add cream beaten until stiff; put in a melon- 
shaped or individual molds, pack in salt and ice and let stand 3 hours. 
Serves six. 

Frisbie's Cane and Maple Syrup contains no imitation flavoring 
or artificial coloring. 

MAPLE DIVINITY FUDGE 

One cup granulated sugar, % cup white corn syrup, 1/3 cup hot 
water, 2 whites of eggs, % teaspoon cream tartar, 1 pint FRISBIE'S 
Cane and Maple Syrup. Boil the sugar, syrups and hot water until it 
threads; whip the whites of eggs with the cream of tartar; into the stiffly 
beaten egg whites pour gradually the hot syrup, beating constantly; whip 
until cool. Drop by spoonfuls in buttered pans. 

Lots of pure Maple sugar in Frisbie's— note the flavor. 

MAPLE POPCORN DAINTY 

One pint FRISBIE'S Cane and Maple Syrup, % teaspoon cream of 
tartar, 2 cups ground popped corn, 2 whites of eggs. Put syrup and cream 
of tartar in pan and boil until it hairs. Just before removing from fire 
add the ground popcorn. Pour the mixture over the stiffly beaten whites 
of eggs and beat until light. Pour in 'buttered pans and cut in squares. 

MAPLE FUDGE 

Two cups sugar, 2 cups water, 1 pint of FRISBIE'S Cane and Maple 
Syrup, small can condensed milk, butter size of walnut. Mix water, 
sugar, syrup and milk; bring to a boil; boil it until it tests soft ball in 
cold water; beat mixture until it grains and pour in greased tin or platter. 
Chopped walnuts may be added. 

Frisbie's is packed full weight and rightly priced. 

HAM 

Cover ham with water and simmer gently, allowing 30 minutes to the 
pound. Bake the ham in a moderate oven V2 hour and baste with FRIS- 
BIE'S Cane and Maple Syrup. 

Frisbie's is a Spokane product and your money's worth — abso- 
lutely. 



* * 

At Your Grocer 9 s — Take no Substitute 

73 



CUPID'S BOOK 




HSCLD 



B'^> '■:":'> 'g.:' l | 



Roasted, Packed and Guaranteed by 



SCHWABACHER BROS. & Co., Inc. 

Seattle's Oldest Business House 

U 



PREPARATION OF COFFEE 

In the preparation of coffee the following rules should always be observed: 

1. To make coffee to perfection, you must use 1 tablespoon of good coffee 
for each cup and 1 for the pot. 

2. The water must be fresh drawn from the faucet and let come to a boil, be- 
cause water that has once been boiled has lost a large amount of the air or oxygen 
it contains. 

3. The percolation method is best; coffee, preferably, should not be boiled, but 
if you must boil it, do not boil it over 5 minutes or a bitter concoction of tannin 
results. 

4. The infusion must be drunk soon after making or its aroma and fine flavor 
are missed. 

5. Whatever pot is used, it must be strictly clean and scalded with hot water 
so that it is thoroughly heated throughout. 

6. To obtain the full aroma and flavor, the coffee must be freshly roasted and 
ground. 

LADIES' LUNCHEON COFFEE 

Put in strainer of a percolator a heaping tablespoon of finely ground coffee for 
every ordinary size cup of coffee; press the coffee down in the strainer slightly, 
and pour on your required amount of boiling water; put the lid on the strainer and 
leave the water to filter through; add to coffee, when serving, to 2 parts coffee 1 
part hot milk and a tablespoon of whipped cream, which will float on top of coffee, 
adding to it a rich flavor and a very inviting appearance. When you prepare coffee 
after this recipe you will have a very delicious coffee, such as served in all first-class 
cafes of Europe. 

FRENCH DRIP COFFEE — "CAFE NOIR" 

For every ordinary cup take 2 tablespoons of finely ground coffee, which press 
down slightly in the strainer; then pour on your boiling hot water; put lid on 
strainer and leave water to filter through; when the water is all filtered through 
you have "Cafe Noir," a very strong, black coffee, which was formerly drunk with 
brandy, the latter being poured in saucer with sugar and then ignited, leaving the 
spirits burn out. Sometimes it is diluted with hot water. 

COFFEE BOILED 

Take 1 tablespoon medium-ground coffee to a cup and 1 for the pot; draw fresh 
water from the faucet, boil in kettle for 5 minutes, pour the water on coffee in pot 
and allow it to steep for 5 minutes; then remove the grounds from the liquor, and 
you can use it several hours afterwards. 

DIRECTIONS FOR CLARIFYING COFFEE 

Egg shells may be saved and used for clearing coffee; 3 egg shells are sufficient 
to effect clearing where 1 cup of brown coffee is used; an egg broken and slightly 
beaten may be diluted with a little cold water and mixed with the coffee. This 
gives a particularly rich flavor. 

HOW TO MAKE TEA 
Scald an earthen or china teapot; put in 2 teaspoons tea and pour on 2 cups 
boiling water; let stand on back of range or in a warm place 5 minutes; strain and 
serve immediately with milk or without sugar and milk. Avoid second steeping of 
leaves with addition of a few fresh ones. If this is done, so large an amount of 
tannin is extracted that various ills are apt to follow. . 

75 



f 




Quality, Not Price, the Test of Good Tea 

Judge GOLD SHIELD TEA quality by its delicate 
flavor and fragrance — not by its moderate price. 
GOLD SHIELD sells for far less than its quality 
would warrant. If you are a lover of tea let not 
another day pass without permitting GOLD SHIELD 
to give you a new idea of tea excellence. 

In GOLD SHIELD Orange Pekoe the choice prod- 
ucts of both India and Ceylon are blended by special 
formula and packed in sealed cans. Full richness and 
flavor are ready to be released for your table or your 
afternoon affairs. 

All good grocers have GOLD SHIELD TEA at 85c 
the pound tin; 45c the half; 25c the quarter pound 

Blended, Packed and Guaranteed by 

SCHWABACHER BROS. & COMPANY, Inc. 

Importers and Blenders of Tea 
Seattle, Washington 

GOLD SHIELD TEA 



76 



^' 1 1 1 1 f i ' 1 1 1 1 1 1 « f 1 1 1 1 1 J 1 1 1 1 r 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 t I j 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 !! 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 » 1 1 1 i 1 1 1 1 r 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 ? 1 1 1 1 1 a 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 ; i < 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 r 1 1 1 1 < 1 1 1 1 r I r 1 1 1 < 1 1 1 1 1 1 ■ I r 1 1 1 1 r 1 1 1 f 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 r 1 1 r 1 1 1 1 1 r 1 1 1 r 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 r 1 1 1 1 1 1 t < 1 1 1 1 ! 1 1 1 r i i 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 L^ 

Regarding Coffee Making 

The most careful and conscientious manufacturer cannot insure 
the consumer of having a perfect cup of coffee, for the making of 
the beverage in the home depends entirely upon the user. It has 
been definitely determined that the most satisfactory way to prepare 
coffee is by the French Drip method. This is where boiling water is 
strained through the ground coffee. A good French Drip Pot can 
usually be obtained in any store carrying kitchen utensils. 



Although the French Drip Method is the best, very good coffee 
can be prepared by either of the following methods : 

BOILING 
In an ordinary coffee pot or saucepan, put the desired amount of 
ground coffee and add water • bring to a boil, then take from the fire. 
It is most important to do this for continued boiling causes the flavor 
or aroma to escape and leaves a drink that is bitter and unsatisfac- 
tory. A dash of cold water added at the time the coffee is removed 
from the fire helps to settle the grounds and clarify the liquid. 

STEEPING 
In this method follow the same procedure as in boiling except that 
instead of bringing the coffee to a boil, pour boiling water over the 
ground coffee. After the water has been added, stir thoroughly and 
then allow to stand for at least fifteen minutes on a part of the stove 
where it will keep warm without boiling. This will permit the full 
extraction of flavor and strength and allow the grounds to settle. 



In any method of making coffee the following rules must be con- 
scientiously adhered to: 

Do not guess at proportions, but carefully measure both coffee 
and water. Usually a heaping tablespoon of coffee to each cup of 
water will be found to produce the best results. 



Do not allow coffee to stand too long after making, serve fresh. 
1 o o o 

If coffee is not to be consumed black, it is desirable to serve fresh 
| cream with it if possible. 

o 6 o 1 

It is of great importance that utensils should be kept scrupulously 
clean, and to accomplish this a regular cleansing with a solution of 
boiling water, washing soda and ammonia, will be found most effect- 
ive. It is a good rule to do this once a month as it will remove the 
coffee oil that adheres to the lining of the utensil, which ordinary 
| washing fails to do. 

7IIMIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII Illlllllllllltllllllltllllllllllllllt Ill MllIIMMIHIMHIIIIIItllllllllllll 1 n 1 1 II 1 1 1 II 1 1 rill M II II II Mil 1 1 f Illlllllllll II tl 1 1 111 II 1 1 1 1 1 1 Mil 1 1 III II II II III 1 1I II II II I III 1 1 IIR 

77 




DEAR HOUSEWIFE: 

We wish to announce that we have 
a most complete line of the very 
latest patterns and designs in 
China and Dinnerware. 
We also specialize in Silverware, 
Glassware, Cut Glass, Electrical 
Goods, Kitchenware, Art Goods, 
Useful Gifts, Toys, etc. 

We most cordially invite you to 
our store and will be only too 
pleased to help you in the way of 
suggestions and making your se- 
lections. 



<< 



Let Our Store Be Your Store 



>> 



•AWHERJ2KA 



jm 



^3: 



CHIN AWARE- GLASSWARE 

SILVERWARE- ART-GOODS 

•KITCHENWARE- 

TOV4 




524 

MAIN AVE. 



M iiii i i ii iii i i iM i Miiiiiui ^ mTiTTmTTn i iiii i ii ii iiiirmTTTi i in i i i ii iiiiiiinii 




I 



a pie 

as it should 
he set 




n the following pages are presented 
a few suggestions with the hope that 
they may prove helpful to those who 
are interested in the effective setting 
of the table. 



79 



Spokane-6 




The Dinner Table 

In the setting of the table, as in all other artistic performances, 
there are certain defined rules for procedure which should be 
observed. 

It is well that every housewife should have a reasonably inti- 
mate knowledge of those fundamental rules, and it is to her, there- 
fore, that we dedicate the authoritative suggestions presented in 
the following: 



Setting the Table 

A "silence'-' cloth should always be used under the table cloth 
to protect the surface of the table, and to muffle the noise. 

The table cloth should be laid smoothly and evenly on the table. 
If the table top is finely polished, doilies may be used instead of a 
table colth for breakfast, luncheon or informal dinners. 

Twenty-five or thirty inches is allowed from plate to plate. 

Lace doilies should be ararnged on the service plates, and on 
these should be placed the cocktail glasses for fruit, oysters or 



80 

'The China Shop for Suggestions' 



r 



other fish cocktails. The bread and butter plate should go to the 
left of the place plate, above the forks. On the right of this, with 
the blade turned in, the dessert knife should be placed, followed 
m the order mentioned, by the meat knife (fish knife if used), 
soup spoon and oyster fork. 

On the left, nearest the plate, is the dessert fork, followed by 
the salad fork, meat fork and fish fork. This rule can best be 
remembered by observing that the silver is laid in the order of its 
use from the outside toward the plate. 

The napkin should be placed at the left of the silver, with 
the fold at the top, the open edges at the right toward the edge 
of the table. 

The number of glasses used will be determined by the kind of 
beverages to be served. There are special glasses for nearly every 
kind. The water goblet is always essential. 



Individual Cover for Dinner 



Consists of plates, glasses, silver and napkin 
to be used by one person. 

Any graceful arrangement of the glasses 
on the right at the head of the knives 
is proper. An individual salt seller 
and spoon to the left, with an 
individual almond dish on the 
right, completes each place. 

Salt and pepper shakers may 
be used if desired. They should 
be so arranged that they will be 
conveniently accessible to all guests. 




81 

The China Shop for Suggestions 9 



The Table Decorations 




The arrangements of flowers is al- 
ways one of personal taste. Complete 
color schemes and original decoration 
ideas are frequently fully carried out in 
flowers. The color schemes to be used 
are generally determined by the season, 

the flowers available and frequently by the event 

which has occasioned the dinner. 

A very popular custom is to place a single flower 
in a slender vase at each place. A low, green, center- 
piece is very pleasing. A single rose laid beside each 
plate makes an effective decoration. 



Methods of Serving 

There are three recognized methods of serving a meal — the 
English, the Russian and the Compromise. The Russian is more 
formal than the English and the Compromise combines points from 
both. 



In the English service all the food that is to be served in any 
given course is placed on the table in platters and other suitable 
dishes before the host, hostess or some member of the family. The 
number of plates necessary for the persons seated is placed before 
the carver, or they may be taken one by one from a side table and 
set before him. As each plate receives its portion the waiter car- 
ries it either to the person serving another article of food, such 
as vegetables, or sets it directly before the person for whom it is 
intended. When finger bowls are used, a plate bearing a doily 
upon which the bowl is placed should be placed in front of each 
person. 



We Specialize in Table Decorations — Albert Burts* "Palace of Flowers' 




In the Russian service serving is done 
from the serving table o. pantry. With 
the exception of candies, nuts and relishes, 
food is not placed on the table except as 
it is served to the individual. A portion 
of the main dish of the course and possi- 
bly one accessory are placed on each plate 
before it is brought from the pantry. All 
other dishes are passed. 



Sometimes the plates are all set down 
empty and the food is passed on daintily 
garnished platters. As the plates of one 
course are removed the plates of the next course 
should be immediately set in place. The table 
should at no time be without plates except that 
between the main course and dessert all dishes 
should be removed and the table crumbed. 



In the Compromise service portions of courses 
or the entire courses are sometimes served on the 
table in the English way and others are passed 
as in the Russian service. The soup, for instance, 
may be served in individual plates from the pan- 
try and meat carved at the table by the host, the 

vegetables and the salad course both passed by the maid and the 

dessert served at the table by the hostess. 



The Courses 



Oysters on the half shell may be served first, either on lunch- 
eon plates, surrounded by cracked ice or on special oyster plates. 
It is a matter of preference as to whether this is done before or 
after the guests are seated. 

The soup service follows. If the soup is served from the 
table it should be brought in by the servant in a tureen, with ladle, 



83 



Attention, Hubby: Remember, you can still Say it with Flowers 
— Albert Burts' "Palace of Flowers" 



and placed "before the hostess, whose duty it is to serve it. The 
soup plates are either rimmed or cup-shaped. As each service is 
rendered the servant takes it from .the hostess and passes it to 
the guests, always serving ladies first. 

When the soup is served from the pantry the tureen is dis- 
pensed with, the servant bringing in the soup in individual services 
on a suitable serving tray. 

Following the soup service comes the fish course. This re- 
quires a specially adapted service, including a long, narrow fish 
platter, with sauceboat, ladle and fish plates, which should be 
slightly warmed. The fish platter is either passed from person to 
person or it may be passed by the servant, and each guest is then 
expected to serve himself or herself. The sauceboat is not passed 
until the fish has been completely served. 

The service plate may be removed before the /oast course, al- 
thought if removed it should be returned to the table after the 
roast course for the remaining courses of the dinner. 

The meat course which follows, if the English custom is em- 
ployed, is brought in on a large covered silver platter or on a large 
china platter. The vegetables also may be brought in in appropri- 
ate covered dishes. The meat course is served on large, carefully 
heated dinner plates. 

Where steak is served a heavy wooden steak plank, with silver 
railing, simplifies the service and is very effective. 

With the meat course jello or jelly is frequently served. This 
is generally prepared in a special mould. These special moulds 
may be had in original designs to carry out almost any desired 
decoration. 

Vegetables may be served on the same plates, or, preferably, 
passed in small, deep dishes. 

84 
"The China Shop for Suggestions" 



The salad course comes next. It is served on small plates 
made especially for the purpose. 

Appointments, with the exception of the water, beverage glass 
and dessert knife and fork, are now removed from each place and 
the table is crumbed. 

The dessert service depends upon the dessert. If ice cream is 
served in individual moulds or brick, flat plates are used; other- 
wise it is served in deep dishes or in tall, stemmed glasses. An 
individual ice cream fork or ice cream spoon is used and may be 
placed on the table at the head of the service plate when the table 
is set, or it may be given with the course at the time of ice cream 
service. 

If the dessert consists of a frappe or 
a similar delicacy it should be served 
in a comport or tall, stemmed glass. If 
the heavier desserts, such as pie or pud- 
ding, dessert plates should be used. 

According to the English custom, it 
is perfectly permissible for pie to be 
served by the hostess at the table. In 
this event the pie plate is placed in a 
container with a silver railing or gallery. 



Small plates containing crackers and 
cheese are now served, being placed 
conveniently at several places on the 
table. Then follows the after - dinner 
black coffee or demi-tasse. The coffee 
should be served from a china or silver 
coffee pot by the hostess and should 
be passed to each person by a servant. 




Finger bowls of glass or metal, standing on a plate to match 
or otherwise, are now placed before each guest. 



L 



85 
"The China Shop for Suggestions 9 ' 



Special Decorations 

The setting of the table offers almost unlimited scope for the 
expression of the individuality of the hostess. 

There can be no cut and dried rule as to table decoration. This 
is entirely a matter for the originality of the hostess or the caterer. 

It is possible to create very effective settings without extrava- 
gant cost if some definite idea is first outlined and then suggested 
by the decoration. 

By way of suggestion, very clever table settings may be accom- 
plished, using special occasions, special days or original ideas as 
motives. For instance, betrothal announcements, showers, wed- 
dings, the recurrent anniversaries, birthdays, commencements, and 
other such events offer unlimited possibilities for original ex- 
pression. 

The West, with its romance, its scenic charms, and the beautiful 
colorings offered in the variety of its fruits and flowers, together 
with the ever-artistic and sentimental old mission effects, affords 
a wide field for decorative fantasies. 

There are also many patriotic days — Washington's Birthday, 
Lincoln Day, Independence Day, Decoration Day, and, of course, 
the good old holidays — St. Valentine's Day, Easter, Hallowe'en, 
Thanksgiving, Christmas, New Year's Day — each presenting its 
individual opportunities for effective table decoration. 

Other beautiful decoration schemes may be carried out by the 
use of maline and the liberal use of flowers, either in solid colors 
or in contrasting shades. For this purpose we suggest the many 
unusual flower centerpieces. 

Children's parties are also very susceptible to very clever table 
decoration. The ages of the children to be entertained, the occa- 
sion of their entertainment, and their particular inclinations, influ- 
ence to an important degree the character of the decorations. 

86 
We Specialize in Table Decorations — Albert Burts' "Palace of Flowers*' 



When Dinner is Announced 

The host, with his partner, leads the way to the dining room. 
At the table, cards are placed at each cover showing the seating 
arrangement. Each gentleman draws out the lady's chair, waits 
until the host and ladies are seated then seats himself. 



Order of Seating and Serving 
People at Table 

The guest of honor, if a man, should be seated at the right of 
the hostess, if a woman, at the right of the host. 

The order of serving is very largely a matter of individual 
inclination. 

All the women may be served before the men, beginning with 
the hostess or guest of honor. 

Or the guest of honor or the hostess may be served first and 
then the next person, irrespective of whether man or woman, con- 
tinuing thus around the table. It is advisable to serve one course 
around the table to the right and the other around the table to the 
left, so that the courtesies may be equally divided. 

When the hostess is served first it enables her to judge as to 
whether the dish is properly served and provided with necessary 
accessories. 



Individual Cover 

for Luncheon 

The illustration shows the set- 
ting for the serving of the meat 
course, also the position of the 
coffee cup, which should be placed 
after the remainder of the course 
has been served. 




87 

'The China Shop for Suggestions 9 




For Breakfast 

The development and the use of elec- 
tricity for table appliances has added 
wonderfully to the delights of breakfast 
serving. The electric toaster makes the 
toast right at the table, thus insuring 
economy and adding to the delight of 
the toast itself. 

The coffee likewise is made in the 
electric percolator, and even the bacon 
and eggs mav be shirred on the electric 
grill. 




SMITH ELCTRIC COMPANY 

S. 203 Howard Street Phone Riv. 272 Spokane, Wash. 

"Light on Every Subject" 

House Wiring, Convenience Outlets, Electrical Appliances, Fixtures and 
Mazda Lamps, Motors Sold and Repaired 



Cover for Breakfast 

On the tray are three pitchers, 
the smallest for cream, next in 
size for milk and the largest for 
hot water, which is provided to 
heat the cups. 

Before the coffee is served 
the water is poured into each 
cup, from which it is emptied 
into the bowl, which is also on 
the tray. 




88 
The China Shop for Suggestions' 



mil 



illinium 



I He 



will love you more if 
you are able to greet 
him with a happy 
smile after a day's 
work. 



Western Eh 

PORTABLE 

SEWING MACHINE 




Electricity's [ 
Latest 



i She 



will love you more if you use every means 
to lighten the drudgery of her housework. 



g Before risking future happiness, check over =j 
J this list of Electric Labor Savers in order of jjj 
H their importance: H 



| IRON 

I CLOTHES WASHER 

I VACUUM CLEANER 

1 GRILL and TOASTER 

1 PERCOLATOR 

I SEWING MACHINE 

| FAN 

I WARMING PAD 

I VIBRATOR 

1 RADIANT HEATER 

| CURLING IRON 

"Light on Every Subject" 

WE ALSO DO WIRING AND 
= CARRY FIXTURES 




You will find in our store a conv 
plctc stock of high grade electrical 
merchandise. 

It will give us much pleasure to 
show and demonstrate any of these 
articles to you at any time. 

SMITH ELECTRIC CO. 

S. 203 Howard St. 
Phone Riverside 272 




aii 



89 



ln= 




•HOME BUILDERS'* 



Of Course 

You will want that 
wedding picture 
nicely framed and 
you will also need 
some pictures and 
art goods for your 
new home. 



We will be glad to give you the latest ideas in 
framing at most moderate prices, as we spe- 
cialize in Correct Framing. 

PICTURES 

MIRRORS 

FRAMES 

ART GOODS 



THE LEE FRAME SHOP 



THOS. A. LEE, Prop. 
Phone Main 5459 



1003 W. Sprague 



Spokane, Wash. 



90 



Table Etiquette 

Whether it be a family dinner without guests or a formal occa- 
sion, a man shows courtesy and breeding by waiting until the ladies 
have been seated. At a luncheon or dinner a woman waits politely 
until her hostess is seated, and a young girl does not take her place 
until each older woman has taken hers. 

PROPER SEAT AT TABLE 

One should sit erect, and neither lounge nor bend forward while 
eating. A seat drawn too closely throws out the elbows, one too 
far away crooks the back. The proper compromise is a position in 
which the waist or chest is about eight inches from the table. 

While at the table it is not considered good manners to put 
one's elbows on the table, to trifle with the knives and forks, or 
to clink the glasses. When not occupied, the hands should lie 
quietly in the lap, for nothing so marks the well-bred gentleman 
or lady as repose at the table. 

USE OF NAPKIN 
This must not be spread out to its full extent over lap or chest, 
and none but the vulgarian tucks his napkin in the top of his 
waistcoat. To unfold it once and lay it across the knees is suffi- 
cient. At the conclusion of a meal in a restaurant or at the table 
of a friend it is not necessary to diligently fold the square of 
linen in its original creases and lay it by the plate. Since the 
napkin will not be used again until* it is washed, it is sufficient 
to place it unfolded on the table when arising. This rule is not 
followed when visiting for a few days in a friend's house. Then 
the guest should do as the host and hostess do, for not in every 
household is a fresh napkin supplied at every meal. 

KNIFE AND FORK 

The knife is invariably held in the right hand and is used 
exclusively for cutting and never for conveying food to the mouth. 
The fork is shifted to the right hand when the knife is laid aside, 
and save for small vegetables, such as peas, beans, etc., it is not 
used spoonwise for passing food to the mouth. 

It is an evidence of careless training in table manners to mash 
food in between the prongs of the fork, to turn the concave side 
of the fork up and, loading it with selections from different foods 
on the plate, to lift the whole, shovelwise, to the mouth. 

No less reprehensible is it to hold knife and fork together in 
the air when the plate is passed up to the host or hostess for 



91 



another helping, or, when pausing in the process of eating, to rest 
the tip of the knife and fork on the plate's edge and their handles 
on the cloth. When not in active service both these utensils must 
remain resting wholly on the plate, and at the conclusion of a 
course they should be placed together, their points touching the 
center of the plate, their handles resting on the plate's edge. 

Not only fish, meats, vegetables and made dishes, melons and 
salads, as well, are eaten with a fork. Oysters and clams, lobster, 
crab and terrapin are fork foods. It is a conspicuous error in good 
manners to cut salad with a knife. Lettuce leaves are folded up 
with the fork and lifted to the mouth. 

USE OF THE SPOON 

Never allow a spoon to stand in a coffee, tea or bouillon cup 
while drinking from it. For beverages served in cups and glasses 
it is enough to stir the liquids once or twice, to sip a spoonful or 
two to test the temperature and then, laying the spoon in the 
saucer, to drink the remainder directly from the cup. To dip 
up a spoonful of soup and blow upon it in order to reduce the 
temperature is a habit that should be confined to nursery days. 
Soup should be dipped up with an outward motion, never by draw- 
ing the spoon toward one. 

Liquids are imbibed from the side, not the end, of the spoon. 

The foods eaten with a spoon are grape fruit and its cousins, 
small and large fruits when served with cream, hot puddings and 
custards, jellies, porridges and preserves and hard or soft-boiled 
eggs. 

USE OF FINGER BOWL 

A finger bowl is the necessary adjunct to a fruit course. The 
bowl, half filled with water, is set upon a plate, on which a small 
doily lies. Unless a second plate is served with the fruit, that on 
which the bowl of water stands is intended to receive it. Then 
the bowl and doily must be removed slightly to one side and the 
former placed upon the latter. When the fruit is finished each 
hand in turn must be dipped in the water, not both together, as 
though the bowl were a wash basin. A little rubbing together of 
the finger tips, without stirring up or splashing the water about, 
cleanses them thoroughly and they must be dried with the napkin 
on the knees. 

NOISELESS AND DELIBERATE EATING 

To eat slowly and quietly is an evidence of respect for one's 
health and personal dignity. Only the underbred or uneducated 
bolt their food, strike their spoon, fork or glass rim against their 



92 



teeth, suck up a liquid from a spoon, clash knives and forks against 
their plates, scrape the bottom of a cup, plate or glass in hungry 
pursuit of a last morsel, and masticate with the mouth open, pat 
the top of a pepper pot to force out the contents and drum on a 
knife-blade, in order to distribute salt on meat or vegetables. 

Conversation and small mouthfuls are aids to digestion and it 
is a useless and ugly exertion to smack the lips together when 
chewing food. 

Individaul salt cellars are commonly used today. A well-ar- 
ranged dinner, breakfast or luncheon table is provided with one 
between each two covers. A helping from one of these should be 
taken with the small salt spoon which lies across or beside it and 
placed on the edge of the plate, not upon the cloth beside the plate. 
To thrust one's knife point into the salt dish is vulgar in the ex- 
treme. When distributing salt upon food, do not take a pinch be- 
tween thumb and forefinger ; a little taken up on the knife's point, 
or whatever will adhere to the fork prongs, is enough to savor the 
whole of any helping of food on the plate. 

A last and elusive morsel of food should never be pursued about 
a plate and finally pushed upon a fork by the assisting touch of a 
finger. A bit of bread may be utilized for this purpose or, better 
still, the knife if it is at hand. 

A mouthful of meat, vegetable or dessert should never be taken 
up by a fork or spoon and held in midair while conversation is car- 
ried on. As soon as food is lifted from the plate it should be put 
into the mouth. 

ACCIDENTS AT TABLE 

Mishaps happen even to the most careful person. When, how- 
ever, anything flies from the plate or lap to the floor, one should 
allow the servant to pick it up. Should grease or jelly drop from 
the fork to one's person, then to remove it with the napkin corner 
is the only remedy. 

Very often, however, the apparently well-conducted gentleman 
or lady, when such an accident befalls, gravely wipes his or her 
knife on a bit of bread or the plate's edge and headfully scrapes 
away the offending morsel. This is decidedly the wrong way to 
do it, just as it is a bad error thoughtfully to scrape up a bit of 
butter or fragment of fowl from the tablecloth where it has fallen 
beside the plate. At the family board this is well enough, but at 
a restaurant or a friend's table it is bad manners. 

If an unfortunate individual overturns a full water glass at a 
dinner table, profuse apologies are out of place. To give the 



93 



hostess an appealing glance and say, "Please forgive me; I am 
very awkward," or "I must apologize for my stupidity ; this is quite 
unforgiveable," is enough. 

Should a cup, glass or dish be broken through carelessness, 
then a quick, quiet apology can be made and within a few days 
sincere repentance indicated by forwarding to the hostess, if possi- 
ble, a duplicate of the broken article and a contrite little note. 

A serious and unpleasant accident is that of taking into the 
mouth half-done, burning hot or tainted foods. The one course 
to pursue, if it cannot be swallowed, is quickly and quietly to 
eject the morsel on the fork or spoon, whence it can quietly be 
laid on the plate. This can be so deftly accomplished that none 
need suspect the state of affairs. 

FOODS EATEN V* ITH THE FINGERS 

At luncheon, breakfast, high tea or supper a small plate and 
silver knife lie beside the larger plate and on this the breads of- 
fered must be laid — not on the cloth — and the small silver knife — 
not the large, steel-bladed ones — used for spreading the butter. 
At dinners the roll in the napkin is taken out and laid on the cloth 
at the right beside the plate. Never bite off mouthfuls of bread 
from a large piece nor cut it up. Break it as needed in pieces the 
size of a mouthful, spread on a bit of butter, if that is provided, 
and so transfer with the fingers to the mouth. 

Crackers are eaten in the same way. Celery, radishes, olives, 
pickles, salted nuts, crystallized fruits, bon bons and raw fruits 
(save berries, melons and grapefruit), artichokes and corn on the 
cob are all eaten with the fingers. 

Cake is eaten like bread, or with a fork. 

Peaches are quartered, the quarters peeled, then cut in mouth- 
fuls and these bits transferred with the fingers to the lips. Apples, 
pears and nectarines are similarly treated. Plums, apricots, grapes, 
etc., if small enough, are eaten one by one and when the pits are 
ejected they are dropped from the lips directly into the half-closed 
hand and so transferred to the plate. 

Burr artichokes are broken apart, leaf by leaf, the tips dipped 
in sauce and lifted to the mouth. The heart is cut and eaten with 
a fork. 

Cheese is cut in bits, sometimes placed on morsels of bread or 
biscuit and lifted in the fingers to the lips, but more often eaten 
with a fork. 

Oranges, like green corn on the cob, are hardly susceptible of 
graceful treatment unless served in halves and eaten with a spoon. 
An orange may be cut into four pieces, the skin then easily drawn 
off, the seeds pressed out, and each quarter severed twice, forms 
a suitable mouthful. Deliberately to peel and devour an orange, 
slice by slice, is a prolonged and ungraceful performance. 

Is it necessary to reiterate the warnings of most all writers on 
etiquette that chicken, game and chop bones may under no circum- 
stances be taken up with the fingers? 

Whoever is so unskillful as to fail to cut the larger part of the 



94 



meat from chop and fowl bones must suffer from their inadeptness 
and forego the enjoyment of these tempting morsels. 

Asparagus is not taken up in the fingers. All that is edible 
of the stalk can easily be cut from it with a fork. The sight of 
lengths of this vegetable dripping with sauce and hoisted to drop 
into the open mouth is not in keeping with decent behavior at the 
modern dinner table. 

THE SECOND HELPING 

At a large and formal dinner party, elaborate luncheon or cere- 
monious breakfast, a guest, no matter how intimately associated 
with the host or hostess, should not ask for a second helping of any 
of the dishes. At a small dinner party, when a guest is a rather 
intimate friend of host or hostess, the request for a second helping 
to a dish is accepted by the hostess as a compliment. At a formal 
dinner neither the host nor hostess should delay the progress of 
the courses by asking anyone to taste again of a dish that has 
been passed, but at a small dinner or a family dinner it displays a 
hospitable solicitude when a hostess invites her guests to take a 
second helping. At a small dinner party she could do this by 
directing the servant to pass the dish again to everyone at table, 
or, when herself helping an entree, salad or dessert, requesting her 
guests to accept a second serving of the dish before her. The host 
who carves does well to offer a little more of the meat to those 
who he sees have disposed of their first helping. To press a 
second slice of meat or second spoonful of dessert upon a guest 
who has politely refused is to exceed the bounds of civility. 

A guest is always privileged to ask for a second or third glass 
of water at a dinner that is formal or informal. This must be 
done by making the request quietly of the servant when next she 
approaches the diner's chair. 

AT THE CONCLUSION OF A MEAL 

When a meal is concluded it is most reprehensible to push 
away the last plate used and brush the crumbs on the cloth into 
little heaps. Leave the last plate in its place, lift the napkin from 
the lap and lay it on the table's edge, rise slowly and quietly, taking 
no precaution to push the chair back into place, unless dining at 
home or informally at a friend's house, where such is the rule. 
The ladies at a dinner or at the family table make the first motion 
to leave the table. A gentleman always stands aside to let a lady 
precede him, and it is only courteous to wait until everyone at a 
table has finished eating before hurrying away. This rule is, of 
course, not observed at a boarding house or small foreign hotel, 
where all the members of a promiscuous household gather at one 
long board, but it should be scrupulously observed in a private 
household. In the latter circumstances, when anyone is obliged 
to leave the table before others have finished, it is but polite to 
turn to the mother, or whoever occupies the head of the table, 
and say "Please excuse me," before rising, and "Thank you," when 
the permission is granted. None but the hopeless provincial and 
vulgarian uses a toothpick in public after his or her meal. 

Spokane-7 95 




Plays all makes 
of records. 



The Music 

of 

Wedding Bells 

is the most delightful music 
in all the World to a Happy 
Pair, but let us suggest that 
it need not be an isolated 
Musical Occasion in the new 
Home. 

Determine right at the start that yours will be 
a Musical Home, that you will enjoy at all times 
the best Music of all the World and of all time. 

Our splendid selection of the finest instruments 
and our wonderfully easy terms make this pos- 
sible to every couple. 

The wonderful 

STRADIVARA 

Phonograph 

has a sound board like a piano, radical depar- 
ture from the old style phonographs. There 
are no metallic, piercing or megaphonic tones. 

ALL INSTRUMENTS ON VERY EASY TERMS 

Sheet Music and Small Goods 

Van-Ausdle Hoffman Co. 

909 Riverside 



96 



CARE OF THE KITCHEN FLOOR 

A linoleum covered floor is the most easily kept clean. The hardwood floor is 
the next best. Anything spilled should be wiped up at once. Grease-spots on 
wood or stone should be covered with flour, starch or powdered chalk to absorb 
the grease. Or if you pour cold water on the grease as soon as it is spilled, to 
harden it, the greater part may then be scraped off. Sweep the floor thoroughly 
once a day. With care it will not need washing or scrubbing oftener than once 
a week. 

CARE OF HARDWOOD FLOOR 

Never use water on a hardwood floor. Wipe it with a cloth moistened with 
very little kerosene — a teaspoon or two to begin with, and as much more when 
that has evaporated. Rub hard with another cloth until the wood is perfectly dry. 
Window sills and all hardwood finish should be cleaned in the same way. 

CARE OF OIL CLOTH 

Wash oil cloth with warm water and milk. Use one cup of skim milk to one 
gallon of water. Wipe dry with a clean cloth. 

CLEANING PAINT 

Take a little whiting on a clean, damp cloth and rub it on the surface to be 
cleaned. Take care not to let drops of water trickle down the paint. Wash off 
with a second cloth and clean water. Wipe dry with a third cloth. Clean a little 
at a time, leaving the cleaned part dry before going on. 

CARE OF SINK 

Neglect of sink causes bad odors and attracts water-bugs and roaches. Keep 
it at all times free from scraps. When the dishes have been washed, scour it 
with a good scouring soap. Wipe the woodwork and tiling. Wash strainer, soap- 
dish and other sink utensils. Wash the cloth. Scrub the draining-board and rinse 
the sink. If it is of iron and is to be left for several hours, wipe it dry. If 
rusty, use kerosene, or grease it with mutton-fat or lard, sprinkle with lime, and 
leave over night. 

CARE OF FAUCETS 

Clean brass faucets with flannel dipped in vinegar or lemon juice and rub thor- 
oughly with rottenstone and oil, then polish with a dry cloth, or apply putz pomade 
or some similar preparation; rub it off with another cloth, and polish with a third 
one. If the faucets are greasy, wash them with soap-suds or sal-soda solution be- 
fore using anything else. Nickel faucets and trimmings need only to be wiped. 

SPECIAL INSTRUCTIONS 

Do not put knife-handles in water. Water discolors and cracks ivory and bone 
handles, and may loosen wooden ones. After washing knives, scour them with 
bath brick. Do not wash bread-board or rolling-pin at an iron sink. The iron will 
leave marks on them. Wash them at the table. Be careful not to wet the cogs 
of a Dover egg-beater. Wash the lower part, and wipe off the handles with a 
damp cloth. Water washes the oil from the cogs, making the beater hard to turn. 
Dry the seams of a double-boiler carefully. Do not waste time polishing tins. 
It is sufficient to have them clean and dry. Dip glasses into hot water, so that 
they will be wet inside and outside at the same time. Silver and glass are bright- 
est if wiped directly from clean, hot suds, without being rinsed. A damp towel 
makes dull spoons and glasses. Scald, i. e., rinse with boiling water, all vessels 
that have contained milk. Wash teapot and coffee-pot in clean, hot water without 
soap, and wipe dry. ^ Clean the spout carefully. Let them stand for awhile with 
covers off. Wash dishpan and rinsing-pan, and wipe dry with a towel, not with 
the dish-cloth. Where running hot water is plentiful, time and towels can be saved 

97 



CUPID'S BOOK . 

by placing the dishes as they are washed in a wire rack, rinsing them with very hot 
water. Wipe glasses and silver. China and other ware will need only a polish 
with towel or strip of paper toweling. For success with this method, the dishes 
must be washed in clean, hot suds, and rinsed quickly. If washed in greasy water, 
or allowed to cool before being rinsed, they will not dry clean. Caution: Gold- 
decorated china should not be washed in this way. Very hot water may injure it. 

REMOVAL OF TARNISH 

Acids dissolve tarnish. Oxalic acid, lemon-juice and vinegar may be used. 
But, except for spots, it is best to rely mostly upon powders in cleaning metals. 
A chemical that removes the tarnish may attack the metal. For example, any 
chemical that brightens zinc, eats into it. If acid is used on any metal, all traces 
of it must be removed by rubbing with powder, or the tarnish will quickly reap- 
pear. Oil or water, mixed with the powder, forms a paste easy to apply. Use 
chamois-skin or soft cloth for polishing. 

TO SCOUR STEEL KNIVES 

Scrape off a little bath brick with the back of the knife or with an old knife. 
Dip a cork in water or oil, and then in the brick-dust. Hold the knife firmly, 
with the blade resting flat upon a level surface, and rub both sides of the blade 
with the cork. Wash the knife. Scour steel forks in the same way. Never scour 
silver-plated knives or forks. 

CARE OF ALUMINUM WARE 

Aluminum should not be used for vegetables with strong acid or for boiling 
eggs. These discolor it. Otherwise it needs little care. Never use soda on alum- 
inum. Before using any polish fill with water and bring to a boil. For bad stains 
use oxalic acid diluted, one teaspoon of acid to two quarts of water. If the stain 
still remains, rub with a damp cloth dipped in whiting or Dutch Cleanser. 

TO CLEAN SILVERWARE 

The quickest way to brighten silver is by electrolysis, that is, by decomposing 
the tarnish by electricity. One device for this purpose is an aluminum pan with 
cross-bars of tin on the bottom. Fill the pan with water, and for every quart 
dissolve in it one teaspoon of baking-soda and one tablespoon of salt. The silver 
must rest on the bars and be covered with the solution. A mild current of elec- 
tricity is set up, which causes the tarnish quickly to disappear. No rubbing is 
needed, but embossed silver may need brushing to loosen the tarnish. Rinse in 
clear water and wipe dry with a soft cloth. The old way is to moisten a soft 
cloth with water or alcohol, dip it in fine whiting, and apply to the silver. When 
the whiting has dried, rub if off with another soft cloth, and polish with chamois- 
skin. To cleanse chasing or ornamental work, use an old tooth-brush. Rub egg- 
stained spoons and other badly tarnished articles with salt before washing them. 
The tarnish is not soluble, but with the chlorine in the salt it forms a soluble com- 
pound. Powders or cakes sold by silversmiths are good. Patent powders and 
polishes often remove some of the silver. 



REMOVAL OF STAINS 

Blood or Meat Juice. — Saturate the stained part with kerosene oil and then dip 
in boiling water. 

Chocolate or Coffee. — 1. Stretch the stained part over a bowl and pour boiling 
water through it. 2. Rub with pure glycerine, then wash in soft water. Do not 
use soap, as this will fix the stain. 

Candle Wax (colored). — Place blotting paper, French chalk or white talcum 
powder on each side of stain and apply a warm iron. Brush out chalk or powder 
and remove color by sponging with alcohol or ether. 

Fruit. — Use boiling water and salts of lemon, or boiling water and oxalic acid. 
Pour through stained part which is stretched over a bowl. 

98 



CUPID'S BOOK 

Grass. — 1. Soak the stain in alcohol and rub. 2. Wet with cold water and rub 
cream of tartar in well, then wash out. 

Grease. — Stretch stained part over a firm pad of toweling or other absorbent 
goods and rub with any of the following applied with woolen cloth: Turpentine, 
benzine, ether or chloroform. 

Ink. — Dampen in cold water, dip in a solution of boiling oxalic acid (two tea- 
spoons oxalic acid in one glass of water), rinse and wash in soap solution. 

Iron Rust. — Moisten stain with ammonia, then apply salts of lemon or oxalic 
acid; after effervercence appears, dip in boiling water. 

Mucus (Handkerchiefs). — Soak in salt water (two tablespoons to one quart of 
water), wash out and boil. 

Machine Oil. — 1. Soak in cold water, then wash out with soap. 2. Soak in cold 
water and borax, then wash. 

Milk. — Wash in cold water, then warm water and soap. 

Perspiration. — Immerse in soap solution and set in sunshine for several hours. 

Scorch. — Soft water and strong sunshine will remove a slight scorch. 

Shoe Stains on White Stockings. — Soak in a solution of oxalic acid, then wash 
out in ammonia water. 

Tea. — Cover stain with common salt, cover with lemon juice and set in sunshine. 

Vaseline. — Place two thicknesses of blotting paper beneath stain, and moisten 
with benzine. Cover with two thicknesses of blotting paper and press with a warm 
— not hot — iron. Use care in working with benzine, as it is inflammable. 

Egg. — Cold water, followed by hot water and soap, as in ordinary laundering. 

Ice Cream. — Sponge the stains thoroughly with water, followed by agents used 
in removing grease spots. 

Iodine. — Unstarched Materials: Sponge the stain with diluted ammonia. Then 
sponge with alcohol (if you can get it). Starched Materials: Soak the stains in 
diluted ammonia until they disappear, or boil the stained material for five or ten 
minutes. 

Leather. — Use an abundance of soap with thorough rubbing and proceed as in 
ordinary laundering. 

Removing Gum. — If the small son or daughter gets chewing gum on the best 
frock or suit, simply go over the gum with gasoline. It will crumble and can be 
brushed off. 

Paints.— Sponge the stains with pure turpentine. If stains are not fresh, soften 
by moistening with ammonia and sprinkling with turpentine. Roll articles up for 
fifteen minutes, then wash in warm water and soap. 

Water Color. — Dip stained portion in gasoline and rub vigorously. 

Salad Dressing. — Soap and lukewarm water for washable materials. 

Soot. — First brush the stain, then place on absorbent powders such as Fuller's 
earth, French chalk, cornstarch, corn meal or salt; work around until they be- 
come soiled and brush them away. Then wash or sponge the stain. 

Tomato Stain. — Wash stains carefully, then moisten with lemon juice and expose 
to sun for several days. Sponge the stain with alcohol, which removes the green 
part of the stain. This is good for stains on wool or silk. 

99 



Walk=Over 

The Shoe For You — It Meets All Needs 

There are just three things that every woman 
wants in her shoes — 

Style 

which means good "looks" 

Fit 

which means comfort, and 

Quality 

which means service. 

You may get some of these in almost any shoe, 
but to get all of them to the utmost degree you 
must year Walk-Overs. 

Exclusive designs, choice leathers and fabrics, 
wide range of sizes and widths — these are good 
reasons for the popularity of Walk-Overs. 

Let your next pair be Walk-Overs. 

Hosiery for Men and Women 

SHUART'S 
WALKOVER BOOT SHOP 

719 Riverside Avenue Spokane, Wash. 



100 



X8I^Mg^BI^MMMMMM£M%MM£M2S^WMM£B!£MMMM Z 



Household Hints 



r^iirKi^i?rKOTi?rrti^ 



Mildew in white clothes may be removed by soaking for a short time in a pail 
of water to which has been added a heaping teaspoon of chloride of lime. Then 
hang in sun. Repeat if necessary. 

When frying potatoes, etc., try chopping with empty baking powder can instead 
of knife. You will find it much more handy and quicker. 

Try greasing cake and bread pans with a small, five-cent paint brush. Keep 
grease in round tin can; cut hole in cover and insert handle of brush when not 
in use. It is then always ready for use and does not soil the hands. 

To prevent cake from burning when using new tins, butter the new tins well 
and place them in a moderate over for fifteen minutes. After this the cake may 
be cooked in them without danger of burning. 

When ironing with gas, place a lid of the coal stove over the gas burners and 
place the irons over this. The irons will always be clean and heat much better 
than if they are put directly over the gas flame. 

To clean plaster of paris figures, use toilet soapsuds and a shaving brush. 
Rinse well. Dipping them in a strong solution of alum water will give them the 
appearance of alabaster. 

To preserve gilt frames, cover them when new with a coat of white varnish. 
All specks can be washed off with water without injury. 

To keep lemons, put them in water. Change once a week. Will keep a long 
time. 



Try 



FLEISCHMANN'S 
YEAST 



For Your Health's Sake 



CUPID'S BOOK 

DO YOU KNOW— 

That a small piece of butter added to the water prevents vegetables, macaroni 
or rice from boiling over? 

That the water from macaroni or rice after they have been cooked should be 
saved for soup and gravies? 

That a teaspoon of vinegar added to boiled meat, while cooking, makes the 
meat tender? 

That after peeling onions if celery salt is rubbed over the hands before washing 
the odor will disappear? 

That if you add a pinch of salt to ground coffee before boiling it will improve 
the flavor? 

That if kid gloves are rubbed gently with bread crumbs after each time they 
are worn they will remain clean much longer than otherwise? 

That a poultice made of tobacco and warm water, put between two cloths and 
placed over the breast and pit of the stomach will relieve convulsions when nothing 
else will? It will do no harm. 

That any one who has aching feet, if the feet are placed in kerosene for about 
ten minutes each day will receive the greatest relief? If used regularly for a month 
is said to cure all corns and callous places on the feet. Will not blister or do any 
injury. 

To relieve burns get a small bottle of picric acid and with a feather paint the 
burned or scalded parts, allowing it to dry. In a few minutes \11 the pain will 
be gone and you will never feel it again. Where the burns are very severe more 
than one application is sometimes necessary. This is an invaluable remedy, espe- 
cially where there are children in the home, for they are getting burned continually. 

There is nothing better than sulphur tea for the hair. It cures dandruff, pro- 
motes the growth, makes the hair soft and glossy and is very good to keep the 
hair from turning gray. 

The whitish stain left on a mahogany table by a jug of boiling water or a very 
hot dish may be removed by rubbing in oil and afterward pouring a little spirits 
of wine on the spot and rubbing it dry with a cloth. 

Wash your weathered oak woodwork and furniture with milk. 

To rid your home of ants mix thoroughly two parts borax with one part pow- 
dered sugar and put around where the ants come. For two or three days the ants 
will come in swarms, but after that they will disappear. Leave the powder around 
for a week or two and you will never be bothered again with ants. 

If food becomes slightly burned in cooking, set the saucepan in cold water 
and it will take away burned taste. 

That silk stockings should be washed in water which is only warm, not hot? A 
soap solution is better for them than rubbing the soap itself on. Squeeze them out; 
don't wring them. 

That you can brighten your home, furniture, wickerware, chairs, floors, etc., 
with FULLER'S PAINTS and VARNISHES? (See page 14.) 

That SUNSHINE MARSHMALLOWS are better than cream when used with 
acid fruits, as they will not curdle? 

102 



CUPID'S BOOK 

Weights and Measures 



1 cup, medium size. % pt. or ^ lb. 

4 cups, medium size, of flour weigh 1 lb. 

1 pint flour weighs V2 lb. 

1 pint white sugar weighs lib. 



2 tablespoons of liquid weigh 1 oz. 

8 teaspoons of liquid weigh 1 oz. 

1 gill of liquid weighs 4 ozs. 

1 pint of liquid weighs 16 ozs. 



HOW TO MEASURE AN OUNCE 
Housekeepers are often confused by the mingling of weights and measures in 
a recipe, therefore an accurate schedule is a good thing to have around. The 
following of the most generally used articles will be found correct: 

1 oz. granulated sugar equals 2 level 1 oz. pepper, 4 level tablespoons. 

teaspoons. 1 oz. salt, 2 level tablespoons. 

1 oz. flour, 4 level teaspoons. 1 oz. mustard, 4 level tablespoons. 

1 oz. butter, 2 level teaspoons. 1 oz. cloves, 4 level tablespoons. 

1 oz. ground coffee, 5 level tablespoons. 1 oz. cinnamon, 4% level tablespoons. 

1 oz. cornstarch, 3 level tablespoons. 1 oz. mace, 4 level tablespoons. 

1 oz. thyme, 8 level tablespoons. 1 oz. curry, 4 level tablespoons. 

1 oz. grated chocolate, 3 level table- 1 oz. chopped suet, % of a cup. 

spoons. 1 oz. olive oil, 2 tablespoons. 

TABLE OF MEASURES 
€0 drops equals 1 teaspoon 1 solid cup butter, granulated sugar, 

3 teaspoons equals 1 tablespoon milk, chopped meat equals V2 lb. 

4 tablespoons equals % cup 2 cups flour equals % lb. 

1 cup equals Vi pint 9 large eggs equals 1 lb. 

1 round tablespoon butter. equals 1 oz. 

TABLE OF PROPORTIONS 

1 cup liquid, 3 cups flour for bread. % teaspoon salt to 1 quart custard. 

1 cup liquid, 2 cups flour for muffins. 1 teaspoon salt to 1 quart water. 

1 cup liquid, 1 cup flour for batters. % teaspoon salt is a pinch. 

1 teaspoon soda to 1 pint sour milk. *4 square inch pepper is a shake. 

1 teaspoon soda to 1 cup molasses. 

Remember that all cup and spoon measures mean full, except where fractions 
^re given. 




103 



CASCADE LAUNDRY COMPANY 




Start Your Married Life Right — 



by sending your laundry to the CASCADE. 
You will find our family laundry service de- 
lightful. 

TRY IT TODAY AND BE CONVINCED 

We will call for your bundle and wash your 
clothes in oceans of rain-soft water with the 
mildest of pure white soap. 

Just phone us when your bundle is ready. 
Glen. 772 Trent and Superior Streets 



SPOKANE, WASH. 

We do Rug and Carpet Cleaning Also 



CUPID'S BOOK 

Time Tables 



BAKING BREAD, CAKES, 
PUDDINGS, ETC. 

Loaf Bread 40 to 60 minutes 

Rolls, Biscuit 10 to 20 minutes 

Graham Gems 30 minutes 

Gingerbread 20 to 30 minutes 

Sponge Cake 45 to 60 minutes 

Plain Cake 30 to 40 minutes 

Fruit Cake 2 to 3 hours 

Cookies 10 to 15 minutes 

Bread Pudding 1 hour 

Rice and Tapioca 1 hour 

Indian Pudding 2 to 3 hours 

Plum Pudding 2 to 3 hours 

Custards 15 t© 20 minutes 

Steamed Brown-Bread 3 hours 

Steamed Puddings 1 to 3 hours 

Pie-crust about 30 minutes 

Potatoes 30 to 45 minutes 

Baked Beans 6 to 8 hours 

Braised Meat 3 to 4 hours 

Scalloped Dishes 15 to 20 minutes 



BAKING MEATS 

Beef, Sirloin, rare, per lb. .8 to 10 minutes 
Beef, Sirloin, well done, per lb. 12 to 15 m 
Beef, rolled, rib or rump, per lb. 12 to 15 m 
Beef, long or short, filet. 20 to 30 minutes 

Mutton, rare, per lb 10 minutes 

Mutton, well done, per lb. .. .15 minutes 

Lamb, well done, per lb 15 minutes 

Veal, well done, per lb 20 minutes 

Pork, well done, per lb 30 minutes 

Turkey, 10 lbs. wt 3 hours 

Chickens, 3 to 4 lbs. wt. . .1 to IY2 hours 

Goose, 8 lbs 2 hours 

Tame Duck 40 to 60 minutes 

Game Duck 30 to 40 minutes 

Grouse, Pigeons 30 minutes 

Small Birds 15 to 20 minutes 

Venison, per lb 15 minutes 

Fish, 6 to 8 lbs.; long, thin fish.. 1 hour 
Fish, 4 to 6 lbs.; thick Halibut. . .1 hour 
Fish, small 20 to 30 minutes 

FREEZING 
Tee Cream 30 minutes 



FRYING 

Croquettes, Fish Balls 1 minute 

Doughnuts, Fritters 3 to 5 minutes 

Bacon, Small Fish, Potatoes 2 to 5 m. 

Breaded Chops and Fish. .5 to 8 minutes 

BROILING 

Steak, 1 inch thick 4 minutes 

Steak, 1% inch thick 6 minutes 

Small, thin Fish 5 to 8 minutes 

Thick Fish 12 to 15 minutes 

Chops broiled in paper. .8 to 10 minutes 

Chickens 20 minutes 

Liver, Tripe, Bacon 3 to 8 minutes 

BOILING 

Coffee 3 to 5 minutes 

Tea, steep without boiling. .. .5 minutes 

Corn Meal 3 hours 

Hominy, fine 1 hour 

Oatmeal, rolled 30 minutes 

Oatmeal, coarse, steamed 3 hours 

Rice, steamed 45 to 60 minutes 

Rice, boiled 15 to 20 minutes 

Wheat Granules 20 to 30 minutes 

Eggs, soft boiled 3 to 6 minutes 

Eggs, hard boiled 15 to 20 minutes 

Fish, long, whole, per lb.. 6 to 10 minutes 

Fish, cubical, per lb 15 minutes 

Clams, Oysters 3 to 5 minutes 

Beef, corned and a la mode. .3 to 5 hours 

Soup Stock 3 to 6 hours 

Veal, Mutton 2 to 3 hours 

Tongue 3 to 4 hours 

Potted Pigeons 2 hours 

Ham 5 hours 

Sweetbreads 20 to 30 minutes 

Sweet Corn 5 to 8 minutes 

Asparagus, Tomatoes, Peas . . 15 to 20 m. 
Macaroni, Potatoes, Spinach, Squash, 

Celery, Cauliflower, Greens. 20 to 30 m. 
Cabbage, Beets, young. .30 to 45 minutes 

Parsnips, Turnips 30 to 45 minutes 

Carrots, Onions, Salsify. 30 to 60 minutes 
Beans, string and shelled. . .1 to 2 hours 

Puddings, 1 qt., steamed 3 hours 

Puddings, small 1 hour 

105 



CUPID'S BOOK 

These recipes are extraordinary and have been thoroughly tested and are con- 
tributed by the 

SUNSHINE CANDY COMPANY OF SPOKANE 



HOW TO USE SUNSHINE MARSHMALLOWS 

Serve a SUNSHINE Marshmallow in Cocoa, Chocolate and Coffee. Toast them 
at the fire or munch them plain. 



WITH SWEET POTATOES 

Boil potatoes until done. Peel while hot, season with butter, mash, put in cas- 
serole and cover with SUNSHINE MARSHMALLOWS and set in hot oven for a 
few minutes. 

STUFFED PRUNES 

Take large prunes, stew until done, pit and stuff with SUNSHINE MARSH- 
MALLOWS and serve with whipped cream. 

MARSHMALLOW CORNSTARCH PUDDING 

Make cornstarch pudding as usual; add chopped nuts or grated pineapple if 
desired; put SUNSHINE MARSHMALLOWS in serving dish and pour hot pud- 
ding over them. Let stand until set. 

MARSHMALLOW PUDDING 

Melt SUNSHINE MARSHMALLOWS in double boiler; add equal part whipped 
cream; stir in nut meats; pour in serving dish or mold. Let stand until pudding sets. 

MARSHMALLOW APPLE PIE 

Take good cooking apples; peel and cut as usual; put in pie with no top crust; 
bake in slow oven, the slower the better; when done, cover with SUNSHINE 
MARSHMALLOWS and let set in oven for a few minutes. 

MARSHMALLOW GINGERBREAD 
Make gingerbread; split while hot; add SUNSHINE MARSHMALLOWS be- 
tween the layers; cut into squares and serve with whipped cream. 

SUNSHINE MARSHMALLOWS 
And Acid Fruits, such as Rhubarb, Gooseberries, Raspberries, Etc. 
Pour the sauce when hot over the marshmallows; let set until cold, then serve. 
SUNSHINE MARSHMALLOWS are better than whipped cream for acid fruits, 
as they will not curdle. 



SUNSHINE MARSHMALLOWS are sold fresh, so don't accept any other. 

106 




Happy Home Brand 

HIGHEST GRADE OF CANNED FOODS 

Luscious Fruits 
Selected Vegetables 





The Best of Everything 
in Food Products 



Packed in Cans, Bottles and Cartons 

SOLD BY ALL BEST GROCERS 
Distributed and Guaranteed by 

Schwabacher Bros. Co., Inc., Seattle, Wash. 

"Seattle's Oldest Business House" 




107 



* 



5to Slj? 

Into nnb (jSmom 



Do you like this little book? 

Won't it help you over some of 
the Rough Places in the beginning 
of Housekeeping? 

Is the answer yes? 

Then, there is just one way to 
show your appreciation and that is 
to patronize the Advertisers who 
have made it possible for us to pre- 
sent it, and kindly mention 



CUPID'S BOOK 

Thanking you in advance, we are, 
Sincerely yours, 

E. F. KIESSLING & SON 

PUBLISHERS 
Box 557 Oakland, California 



108 



RETURN NATURAL RESOURCES LIBRARY 

TO— * 40Gianinni Hall Tel. No. 642-4493 


LOAN PERIOD 1 
" 7 DAYS 


2 


3 


4 


5 


6 


] 
ALL BOOKS MAY BE RECALLED AFTER 7 DAYS 


| DUE AS STAMPED BELOW 












! 
i 






1 






1 






















I 




< 






] 

....... r 












i 






► 




FORM NO. DDO, 50r 


UNIVtRbllYOELAl 
% 1/82 BERKELEY, 


JFORNIA, BERKELEY 

CA 94720 

®$ 



a 
ru 

l ru; 



You 

of sev- 
Elec- 
nces if 
A-B-C 
i Elec- 
r $150 
pur- 
in the 



>upon 



We can also offer you a complete Electric Range Service. 

Visit our show rooms. We'll show you how electricity can 
bring "Happiness in Every Room." 



E. W. Murray Lighting Co. 



313-315 Riverside Ave. 



Phone Main 897 



Illlilllllilllllll 

Start Right! J 

Buy your furniture 

Direct from the factory j 

and save the dealer's profits. 



$200.00 



Seven-piece Bedroom Suite — 
Factory price to you — 



$99.50 



"We will give you all the credit you want" 

THE SALES ROOM OF 

| HARRILD'S FACTORY | 

927 West First Ave. 
I| Factory, 1008 West First Ave. Spokane, Wash'. 

lllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll! 




Oakland 



try 

(^JO the young housekeeper Rhodes- 

Jamieson & Co. offers the facilities of three 

centrally located coal depots, affording immediate 

service on any quantity of fuel as the need 

arises. 



OAKLAND Foot of Broadway 
Telephone Oakland 770 



BERKELEY 284O Shattuck Avenue 
Telephone Berkeley 8O 

Thornwall 1900 

ALAMEDA Park and Blanding 
Telephone Alameda 440 




r wkk-o/%i*n. J A\H 

COAL 

RHODES -JAMIESON 







ijou come 




Make Your Dreams 

Come True 

You have dreamed of a home one that 
you could call your very own. 

You have dreamed of pleasures and 
more conveniences. 

You want money for investment 
money with which to, some day, start a 
business of your own. These are the 
things of which you dream. 

Begin saving money now, and save dili- 
gently and persistently, that your 
dreams may come true. 

You may open an account with an 
amount as small as $1. But start the 
savings habit even though you can put 
aside but a few dollars each month. 



CENTRAL SAVINGS BANK 

Affiliated with 

Central National Bank 

14th and Broadway 

Savings Branch 49th and Telegraph 

Agency: 3320 E. 14th. Street, Oakland, Calif. 







To the 

BRIDE 

and 

GROOM 

We wish to extend our 

Heartiest 
Congratulations 



You may need something in our lines and we invite 
you to our store, where you will find 

A Complete Line of Dependable 

HIGH-CLASS JEWELRY, DIAMONDS, WATCHES, 
CLOCKS, SILVERWARE, ETC. 



also do first-class repair work" 




A. SIGWART and SONS 

JEWELERS 

1226 Broadway Oakland, Cal. 



CUPID'S BOOK 



ft 

GOOD COUNSEL 




H^HIS BOOK is presented free to the Bride 
and Groom with the compliments of the 
ADVERTISERS therein, who make such 
presentation possible. We recommend them 
as the best in their respective lines and they 
will accord you the fairest kind of treatment. 
Your patronage will be highly appreciated by 
them. Please mention Cupid's Book. 



Compiled and Published by 

E. F. KIESSLING & SON 

Box 696, Oakland, California 
Office: 202 Blake-Havens Building 

BRANCHES: 

Los Angeles and San Diego, Cal.; Portland, Oregon 
Seattle and Spokane, Wash. 




Cupid's Book has the approval of 



. dcrrrge J. Ciross 

Clerk of Alameda County 

and is distributed by the courtesy of and 
through his office. 





in 




That life's sweetest offerings to those who live and love 
and cherish the goodness and beauty of its being may 
come to you and yours ; that in the strength and sanctity 
of your union you may know the beginning of the achieve- 
ment of your destinies such is our hope and wish in this 
wonder-hour of your life. 



VOGUE 

PLEATING AND BUTTON CO, 



Phone Oakland 145 




1444 San Pablo Ave. 
OAKLAND 



HEMSTITCHING 
PIQUOTING 

Our Specialty 

BUTTONS MADE 

from your 
own material 



FASHIONABLE 
PLEATING 

Skirts pleated to fit your 
hips 

also 

finished ready to wear if 
you desire. 

FANCY 
EMBROIDERY 

Silver Edging 

i 

BRAIDING 



Take Elevator to Second Floor 

Brides: By mentioning Cupid' s Book you will be 
entitled to Special Prices 



MAIL ORDERS GIVEN SPECIAL ATTENTION 



CUPID'S BOOK 



WEDDING ANNIVERSARY 

First Year Cotton 

Second Year Paper 

Third Year Leather 

Fifth Year Wooden 

Seventh Year Woolen 

Tenth Year Tin 

Twelfth Year Silk and Linen 

Fifteenth Year Crystal 

Twentieth Year China 

Twenty-fifth Year Silver 

Thirtieth Year Pearl 

Fortieth Year Ruby 

Fiftieth Year : Golden 

Seventy-fifth Year Diamond 



DIAMONDS 

JEWELRY 
AND 



SILVERWARE 



Gifts that are always welcome. Handed 
down from one generation to another 
and are eVerlasting. 



A. F. EDWARDS 

1227-29 Broadway 



Oakland's Jeweler 
Since 1879 



Forty-five Years 



. 




BIRTH MONTH GEMS 
Their Sentiment and Flower 

January Garnet: Constancy Wild Rose 

February Amethyst: Contentment Pink 

March Bloodstone or Aquamarine: Courage Violet 

April Diamond: Innocence Easter Lily 

May Emerald: Success in Love Lily of the Valley 

June Pearl or Moonstone: Purity Daisy 

July Ruby: Nobility of Mind Rose 

August Sardonyx or Peridot. Conjugal Felicity Pond Lily 

September Sapphire: Chastity Poppy 

October Opal or Tourmaline: Hope Cosmos 

November Topaz : Fidelity Chrysanthemum 

December Turquoise or Lapis Lazuli: Success and Happiness Holly 



My Mother has her 
Pictures and Mirrors Framed 



Saake s 




Index to Advertisers 



Page 
ARTISTIC GIFTS 

The Copper Shop 34 

BANK 

Central Savings Bank 1 

BUTTONS PLEATING 

Vogue Pleating and Button Co 6 

CHINA PAINTING 

Andrew J. Bloom, Ph. D 55 

CHOCOLATES MA BELLE 

Ma Belle Chocolates 38 

CHOCOLATE SAY "GEAR-AR-DELLY" 

Ghirardelli Co 86 

CLOROX "THE WHITE LINE IS THE CLOROX LINE" 

Clorox Chemical Corp 95- 98 

COAL 

Rhodes-Jamieson & Co Inside Front Cover 

COFFEE "NATIONAL CREST" 

Geo. W. Caswell Co 74- 77 

DIAMONDS SILVERWARE * 

A. F. Edwards 7- 57 

EGGS BUTTER CHEESE 

R. E. Biggs 18, 50 

FLOUR AND CEREALS 

Sperry Flour Co 12 

FOOD PRODUCTS "LAST BRAND" 

The J. E. Shoemaker Co 15, 23, 69, 72 

HEALTH BEVERAGE W-H-Y 

Bartlett Nu Products Corp 26- 42 

HEALTH FOODS 

Hygienic Health Food Co 27- 30 

HONEY 

J. A. Howard Apiaries 68 

HOME FURNISHINGS 

Breuner's 10, Outsids Back Cover 

JEWELRY WATCHES 

A. Sigwart & Sons 2 



LAUNDRY 

New Method Laundry 102 

PAINTS "FOR EVERY PURPOSE" 

W. P. Fuller & Co 65- 66 

PHOTOGRAPHS OF MERIT 

Fred Hartsook 17 

PICTURE FRAMING 

Saake's Inside Back Cover, 8 

SILVERWARE 

A. Sigwart & Sons 78- 88 

STOVES SPARK 

Jackson Furniture Co 58 

M. Stulsaft Co 58 

WICKER FURNITURE 

Falstaff Company . 100 




Furnish Your Own Home 

Whether it be an apartment or a house, make it a 
real home by furnishing it yourselves. An artistic 
home need not be expensive nor furnishing it a 
hardship if you select from Breuner's vast stocks 
and use Breuner's Easy Pay Plan. Ask about it! 




SOLD ON EASY TERMS 



"Everything 
for the 
Home" 




Clay at 15th St., Oakland 



10 



Table of Contents 



Page 

ANIMAL CUTS HOW TO SELECT AND BUY MEATS 46 

BEVERAGES 75 

BREAD, BISCUITS, MUFFINS, WAFFLES, ETC 13 

CAKES AND HOW TO MAKE THEM 19 

CONFECTIONS 39 

EGGS 49 

FILLINGS AND ICINGS 41 

FISH AND SHELL FISH 59 

HOUSEHOLD HINTS 96 

HOUSEKEEPING NOTES 97 

ICE CREAM, ICES AND SHERBETS 33 

JELLIES, JAMS, PRESERVES, MARMALADES, ETC 67 

MEATS 43 

PICKLES 70 

PIES 31 

POULTRY AND GAME 51 

PUDDINGS 35 

PUDDING SAUCES , 37 

RELISHES 71 

SALADS 56 

SAUCES 53 

SHELL FISH 59 

SOUPS 47 

SPANISH AND ITALIAN DISHES 72 

STAINS REMOVAL OF 99 

STUFFINGS 54 

TABLE ETIQUETTE 89 

TABLE OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURES 101 

TIME TABLE FOR COOKING 101 

THE TABLE AS IT SHOULD BE SET 79 

VEGETABLES . ............ 61 



CHOCOLATE RECIPES 87 

SPECIAL HYGIENIC RECIPES - - 28 

SPECIAL RECIPES 85 

11 




From Wedding Cake to Biscuits 

does not have to be "from the sublime to the ridiculous" 





will be more than an ingredient of your first bakings 
it will be their success. 

Your cakes and pies need not suffer by comparison 
with those that "Mother used to make." 




SPERRY 




You will always be sure of the very finest quality in 
Cereals, too, if you insist on the 

SPERRY RED PACKAGE LINE 

GERMEA ROLLED OATS FLAKED WHEAT 

ENCORE PANCAKE FLOUR, ETC. 

" Ask Your Grocer" 
Send for a "Cereal Story" It's Free 



12 






BREAD SKS- BISCUITS 



WHITE BREAD (Quick Method) 

3 Quarts Sifted Flour 2 Cakes Fleischmann's Yeast 
2 Tablespoons Lard or Butter, melted 1 Quart Lukewarm Water 

1 Tablespoon Salt 2 Tablespoons Sugar 

The best bread-makers use quick methods. One cake of yeast will suffice, but 
two cakes produce quicker, stronger fermentation and better bread. 

Dissolve yeast and sugar in lukewarm water, add lard or butter and half the 
flour. Beat until smooth, then add salt and balance of the flour, or enough to make 
dough that can be handled. Knead until smooth and elastic, or "throw and roll." 
Place in greased bowl, cover and set aside in a moderately warm place, free from 
draught, until light about one and one-half hours. 

Mould into loaves. Place in well-greased bread pans, filling them half full. Cover 
and let rise one hour, or until double in bulk. Bake forty-five to sixty minutes. 
If a richer loaf is desired, use milk in place of part or all of the water. 

This recipe makes three large loaves. 

GRAHAM OR WHOLE WHEAT BREAD 

1 Cup Sifted Flour 1 Cup Milk, scalded and cooled 

2 Tablespoons Lard or Butter, melted 4 Tablespoons Light Brown Sugar 

4 Cups Graham Flour or Molasses 

1 Teaspoon Salt 1 Cup Lukewarm Water 

1 Cake Fleischmann's Yeast 

This recipe gives bread of an excellent flavor and richness, which may well be 
served occasionally to give variety to the diet. Both graham and entire wheat are 
highly valuable in the dietary since they stimulate the process of digestion and give 
the digestive tract needed exercise. 

Dissolve yeast and sugar, or molasses, in lukewarm liquid. Add lard or butter, 
then flour gradually, or enough to make a dough that can be handled, and the salt. 
Knead thoroughly, or "throw and roll," being sure to keep dough soft. Cover and 
set aside in a warm place to rise for about two hours. When double in bulk, turn 
out on kneading board, mould into loaves and place in well-greased pans; cover and 
set to rise again about one hour, or until light. Bake one hour in a slower oven 
than for white bread. 

This recipe makes two loaves. 

RAISIN BREAD 

6 Cups Sifted Flour 1 Cake Fleischmann's Yeast 

4 Tablespoons Lard or Butter 1 Cup Lukewarm Water 

%. Cup Sugar 1 Cup Milk, scalded and cooled 

1 Cup Raisins 1 Tablespoon Sugar 

1 Teaspoon Salt 

Raisin bread stands for "queen quality" among breads. Made after this recipe 
it will give you bread enjoyment that you never knew before. Raisin bread makes 
delicious toast. Whole wheat or graham flour used in place of white flour affords 
a pleasing variety. 

Dissolve yeast and one tablespoonful sugar in lukewarm liquid, add two cups 
of flour, the lard or butter and sugar well creamed, and beat until smooth. Cover 
and set aside to rise in a warm place, free from draught, until light about one and 
one-half hours. When well risen, add raisins well floured, the rest of the flour, or 
enough to make a moderately soft dough, and the salt. Knead lightly, or "throw 
and roll." Place in a well-greased bowl, cover and let rise again until double in 
bulk about one and one-half hours. Mould into loaves, fill well-greased pans half 
full, cover and let rise until light about one hour. Glaze with egg diluted with 
water, and bake forty-five minutes. 

This recipe makes two loaves. 

SOUTHERN CORN BREAD 

Cornmeal, White or Yellow 2 Tablespoons Melted 

2 Eggs, Salt Butter or Lard 
1 Quart Milk, Sour 1'/2 Teaspoons Soda 

2 Tablespoons Molasses 

Beat eggs, molasses and butter together thoroughly; dissolve soda in the sour 
milk and stir in enough meal to make a light batter; pour in pan about 1% inches 
thick and bake in moderate oven for about Vz hour. 

13 
GERMEA for the baby 



CUPID'S BOOK 

NUT BREAD 

1/1 Cu P p S S F ugar' *""* ''? Ca^e^Reisthmann's Yeast 

2 Tablespoons Lard or Butter 1 Cup Milk, scalded and cooled 

White of 1 Egg 1 Tablespoon Sugar 

3 4 Cup Chopped Walnuts 

When you want bread-goodness plus, make a loaf of nut bread after this recipe. 
It is a treat that combines deliciousness and big food value. The ingredients speci- 
fied will make one medium-sized loaf or one dozen rolls. 

Dissolve yeast and one tablespoon sugar in lukewarm milk, add one and one- 
fourth cups flour and beat thoroughly. Cover and set aside in warm place fifty 
minutes, or until light. Add sugar and lard or butter, creamed white of egg beaten 
stiff nuts, remainder of flour, or enough to make a dough, and the salt. Knead 
well, or "throw and roll." Place in greased bowl. Cover and set aside for about 
two and one-half hours to rise, or until double in bulk. Mould into a loaf or small 
finger rolls, and place in well-greased pans. Protect from draught and let rise again 
until liht about one hour. Loaf should bake forty-five minutes; finger rolls six 
to eight minutes. 

POP-OVER ROLLS 

2 Cups Flour 3 Eggs 

1 Cup Milk Pinch Salt and Baking Powder 

Put the eggs, salt and flour into a bowl; mix in the milk and pour into deep 
moulds, which are fully 2 inches deep; fill half full and bake in a hot oven 25 minutes. 

OLD-FASHIONED GINGER BREAD 

4 Cups Flour % Cup Melted Butter 

1 Cup Sugar 1 Teaspoon each of Ginger, Cinna- 

1 Cup Milk nion and Soda 

% Cup Molasses 2 Eggs 

Mix dry ingredients; add molasses, milk, eggs and melted butter; beat smooth 
and bake in a sheet for about 1 hour. 

PARKER HOUSE ROLLS 

3 Pints Flour, sifted 1 Cake Fleischmann's Yeast 

4 Tablespoons Lard or Butter, melted 1 Pint Milk, scalded and cooled 
1 Teaspoon Salt 2 Tablespoons Sugar 

These delightful little "individual breads" are among the most popular of rolls. 
The name denotes the shape into which you mould them before the last lightening. 
Dissolve yeast and sugar in lukewarm milk, add lard or butter and one and one-half 
pints of flour. Beat until perfectly smooth. Cover and let rise in a warm place 
one hour, or until light. Then add remainder of flour, or enough to make a dough, 
and the salt. Knead well, or "throw and roll." Place in greased bowl. Cover and 
let rise in a warm place for about one and one-half hours, or until double in bulk. 
Roll out one-fourth inch thick. Brush over lightly with melted butter, cut with 
two-inch biscuit cutter, crease through center heavily with dull edge of knife and 
fold over in pocket-book shape. Place in well-greased, shallow pans one inch apart. 
Cover and let rise until light about three-quarters of an hour. Bake ten minutes 
add heaping teaspoon lard, some salt and Chili powder to taste. When the balls 
in hot oven. 

CREAM BISCUITS BAKING POWDER 

1 Pint Flour 1 Teaspoon Salt 

3 Tablespoons Baking Powder Cream 

Sift together flour, salt and baking powder; moisten with cream as soft as can 
be handled; roll out on well-floured board; cut in small biscuits and place in a pan, 
brushing over with melted butter or cream before baking; have oven very hot and 
bake 10 or 15 minutes, according to size. For milk biscuits use 2 tablespoons short- 
ening. 

BOSTON BROWN BREAD 

1 Cup Flour % Cup Molasses 

1 Cup Cornmeal 1 Cup Sour Milk 

Cup Rye or Graham Flour 2 Teaspoons Soda 

1 Teaspoon Salt 

Mix ingredients; pour into a small pail, about % full; place on rack in a large 
kettle, surrounded with boiling water; boil on flame stove 20 minutes; remove to 
cabinet for 5 hours or more. By adding % cup raisins you have fruit bread. 

14 
Your baby tcill like GERMEA 




BRAND 



FOOD PRODUCTS 

Start right by using the - 

"LAST BRAND FIRST" 

they are SUPERIOR and will not disappoint 
you. 

You will find that most all Grocers and Deli- 
catessens carry the Last Brand Food Products 
and recommend them. 

MAYONNAISE, GRATED CHEESE, MUSTARD, OLIVES, 

PICKLES, HORSERADISH, POTATO CHIPS, VINEGAR, 

SAUSAGES, CHEESE, FISH, OILS, SAUCES, ETC. 

Manufactured by 

The J. E. Shoemaker |Co. 

MANUFACTURERS ANP IMPORTERS 
Oakland San Francisco 



15 



Oakland 2 



CUPID'S BOOK 

MUFFINS 

2 CUDS Flour 1 Tablespoon each of Sugar and 

Melted Butter 

1 Cup Milk !4 Teaspoon Salt 
2'/2 Tablespoons Baking Powder 

Mix and sift dry ingredients; mix beaten egg and milk, add to flour; add melted 
butter and beat to a smooth batter; bake in buttered gem pans in moderate oven. 

KENTUCKY WAFFLES 

2 Pints Flour 1 pint Sour Cream 

3 Eggs 2 Tablespoons Lard 
1 Cup Milk J Teaspoon Soda 

Beat eggs, yolks and white separately; add to yolks sifted flour and sour cream; 
stir well and make batter thin with milk; add melted lard, soda dissolved in a little 
cold milk and lastly whites of eggs; bake quickly in hot irons. 

DANDY GRIDDLE CAKES 

1 Pint Flour '/2 Teaspoon Sugar 

1 Cup Milk '/2 Teaspoon Salt 

3 Teaspoons Baking Powder 

These are the best plain hot griddle cakes without eggs and are light, tender 
and healthful. Sift well together and add milk to make into a soft batter; bake 
immediately on hot griddle. Should be % inch thick when baked. Smother with 
butter and maple syrup or honey. 

CINNAMON BUNS 

Flour 2 Tablespoons Sugar 

!/i Lb. Butter 1 Cake Fleischmann's Yeast 

1 Cup Milk 2 Eggs 

1 Cup Water Currants 

Scald milk, add butter, sugar and yeast cake (dissolved), egg well beaten, and 
sufficient flour to make a soft dough; knead lightly; put aside in a warm place; 
when very light, roll into a sheet, spread with butter and dust with sugar and sprinkle 
with currants; cut into buns; stand them in a greased pan and when very light bake 
in a moderate oven 45 minutes. 

QUICK COFFEE CAKE 

1 Pint Flour 3 Teaspoons Baking Powder 

1/3 Cup Sugar 3 Tablespoons Melted Lard 

1/2 Cup Milk !/ 2 Teaspoon Salt 

1 Egg !/z Teaspoon Cinnamon 

Sift together twice, the flour, salt, baking powder and cinnamon; mix to a soft 
dough with milk stirred into a well-beaten egg; add melted lard; spread in a shallow 
pan, sprinkle with sugar mixed with cinnamon and bake in a moderate oven. 

FRITTER BATTER 

2 Cups Flour 1/2 Teaspoon Salt 
1 Cup Milk 1 Egg 

(For frying fish, vegetables or fruits) 

Mix the above to a smooth batter and coat the article for frying; if for fruit, 
add a little sugar. 

BREAD GRIDDLE CAKES 

1 Cup Flour 1!/ 2 Cups Stale Bread Crumbs 

2 Eggs 3 Teaspoons Baking Powder 
1'/ 2 Cups Milk, Scalded '/ 2 Tablespoon Sugar 

2 Tablespoons Melted Butter '/ 2 Teaspoon Salt 

Pour milk over bread crumbs; add butter and soak for 15 minutes; add eggs, 
well beaten, sugar, salt and baking powder; mix and drop by spoonfuls on a hot, 
greased griddle; cook on one side; when puffed full of bubbles and cooked on edges, 
turn and cook other side; serve with butter and maple syrup. 

GRIDDLE CAKES WITH EGGS 

2 Cups Flour 1/2 Teaspoon Salt 

1 Cup Milk 2 Teaspoons Baking Powder 

Mix well together, add eggs and sufficient milk to make a thin drop batter; bake 
at once on a hot, well-greased griddle; make them thin. 

16 
GERMEA ranks next to milk as a baby food 



if arisnok 



CALIFORNIA'S 

FAMOUS PHOTOGRAPHER 




OAKLAND STUDIO 

408 FOURTEENTH STREET 



STUDIOS IN 



Los Angeles, 636 S. Broadway 
San Francisco, 41 Grant Ave. 
Stockton, 531 East Main St. 



Pomona, 357 W. Second St. 

Fresno, 1228 J St. 

Santa Rosa, 523 Fourth St. 



San Diego, Cabrillo Theater Bldg. Pasadena, 33 W. Colorado St 



Visalia, 104 West Main St. 
San Jose, 285 So. First 81, 
Modesto, 908 Tenth St. 



Bakersfield, 1923 I St. 
Sacramento, 422 K St. 
Riverside 



Long Beach, 111 East Ocean Avenue 



17 




There will be no dis- 
appointments if you 
buy from us. 



We have 

Six 

Good 

Reasons 



First - 

Our Eggs are direct from producer and avoid two weeks' 
commission house routine. 

Second - 

Our High-Grade Butter is churned fresh daily in Oakland. 

Third - 

Our Pure Domestic Honey is packed by us. 

Fourth - 

Tuttle's Cottage Cheese is delivered to us daily. Try it. 
It is different. 

Fifth - 

Money Back Guarantee. 

Sixth - 

Three Stores for your convenience. 

R. E. BIGGS 



East Bay Market 
Nineteenth and Telegraph 



State Market 
Fourteenth and Webster 



18 



CAKES and how to make them 



BRIDE'S CAKE 

2 Cups Flour 1 cup Cornstarch 

i r^i^Vi? 31 " 2 Teaspoons Baking Powder 

1 Cup Milk 1 Teaspoon Vanilla 

c-r* 4i S" P Butter ;. 8 E 99 Whites 

bitt all dry ingredients before measuring. Cream the butter and sugar well then 
add whites of 2 eggs, unbeaten, and beat well; add the flavoring, then a little of the 
milk; sift in a little of the flour, the baking powder and corn starch; beat; then add 
a little more milk and flour until all is used; lastly, fold in lightly the whites of re- 
maining 6 eggs, which have been beaten light and dry; bake 1 hour in a moderate 
oven and when cold ice with marshmallow icing. 

WEDDING CAKE 

* Cups Flour 2 Teaspoons Cinnamon 

Cups each Butter and Sugar 2 Teaspoons Mace 

1 Teaspoon Nutmeg 
1 Teaspoon Allspice 
\ W u me 9. lass Clder !/ 2 Teaspoon Cloves 

4 Cups each Raisins and Almonds 

-Line pan with three thicknesses of paper; butter top layer; seed and chop raisins- 
wash and dry the currants; cut the citron in uniform slices, about % inch thick- 
blanch the almonds and chop fine; mix all the fruit, but the citron, with the dough- 
insert pieces of citron after dough is poured into pan. 

SPONGE CAKE 

2 Cups Flour 1 Teaspoon Baking Powder 

Cups Sugar -| Teaspoon Lemon Extract 

4 E 99S Pinch Salt 

Beat eggs separately, then beat together slowly, sugar, flour, baking powder and 
salt, lastly 1 cup boiling water and extract; heat the pan. 

POUND CAKE 

Cups Flour 10 Eggs 

2 Cups Sugar -\ wineglass Boiled Cider 

2 Cups Butter Citron and Almonds 

Cream the butter; add sugar, egg yolks, whites and flour; place currants into % 
of the dough and almonds, blanched and pounded in rose water, into another part; 
leave the remainder plain; fill very small, round tins % full; into half of those con- 
taining the plain dough put small pieces of citron, three in each, inserting the citron 
upright a little way into the dough; sift sugar over the tops of those containing the 
citron and almond before putting them into the oven; bake 20 minutes; frost the 
plain and currant cakes. Pound Cake is lighter when baked in small cakes than in 

ANGEL CAKE 

ii/ r, UP F L IOUr l/2 Te asP<>on Cream of Tartar 

9 Eaal fwlfites) 1 Teas P on Vanllla Extract 

Beat whites of eggs and cream of tartar till stiff; fold in sugar very lightly, also 
flour and flavoring; bake in ungreased pan. 

DEVIL CAKE 

13/ 4 Cups Flour, Sifted .2 Teaspoons Baking Powder 

?/ r- P iJ?-V,? ar % Cu P Powdered Sugar 

/ r , P n R ** 3 Oun <=es Chocolate, Melted 

Vz Cup Butter i/ 2 Teaspoon Cinnamon 

vSSma Extract /4 Teasp n C ' VeS 

Cream the butter and add the cup sugar; beat yolks, add powdered sugar and 
beat the two mixtures together; add chocolate, then flour, sifted 3 times with baking 
powder, and spices; then milk, extract and whites of eggs; bake in two layers- put 
together with fruit icing; spread white icing above. 

SUNSHINE CAKE 

Powder 



Cream butter and sugar thoroughly; beat yolks and add; sift flour, then sift with 
jaking powder 3 times and add alternately with milk to other ingredients- bake in 
slow oven 50 to 60 minutes. 

19 
Your baby will like GERMEA 



CUPID'S BOOK 
WHITE CAKE 

3 Cups Flour 4 Egg Whites 

1' 4 Cups Sugar 3 Teaspoons Baking Powder 

1 Cup Milk 1 Teaspoon Salt 
% Cup Butter 

Cream butter and sugar; add milk alternately to flour, baking powder and salt, 
if ted thoroughly; add egg whites or fold in last, stirring gently; any flavor to suit 

FUDGE CAKE 

2 Cups Flour (heaping) 

1 Cup Sugar 14 Cup Walnuts 

1 Cup Milk 2 Eggs 

y z Cup Butter 2 Teaspoons Baking Powder 

U Cup Chocolate Sugar 

Melt butter in pan over steam; cream sugar and butter together; add eggs, 
beating well, then milk; sift in flour, baking powder and chocolate; put in broken 
nnts; stir batter quickly; bake in well-greased cake tins. 

LADY BALTIMORE CAKE 

3'/2 Cups Flour 3 Teaspoons Baking Powder 

2 Cups Sugar 1 Teaspoon Rosewater 
1 Cup Milk 6 Eggs 

1 Cup Butter 

Cream the butter and beat in the sugar gradually; sift together flour and baking 
powder; add to butter and sugar alternately with milk and rose water; lastly, add 
egg whites, beaten dry; bake in 3 layer cake pans; put layers together with the fol- 
lowing frosting: 

3 Cups Sugar 1 Cup Chopped Raisins 

3 Eggs 1 Cup Chopped Nut Meats 

5 Figs, cut In Thin Slices 1 Cup Boiling Water 

Stir sugar in water until dissolved, then let boil without stirring until syrup from 
a spoon will spin long thread; pour upon egg whites, beaten dry, constantly, mean- 
while continue beating until frosting is cold; add fruit and spread upon cake. 

BROWNSTONE CAKE 

2 Cups Flour 4 Eggs 

1i/ 2 Cups Sugar 3 Tablespoons Chocolate 

1/2 Cup Milk 1 Teaspoon Baking Powder 

1/2 Cup Butter Vanilla Extract 

Cream sugar with butter, add milk, chocolate dissolved in % cup warm water, 
eggs, well beaten, baking powder and extract; bake in long pan; cover with following 
frosting: 

2 Teacups Powdered Sugar 1 Egg 

Butter (size of egg) 1 Cup Finely Chopped Walnut Meats 

Cream sugar with butter; thin with cream; add beaten egg white and walnuts. 

WHIPPED CREAM CAKE 

2 Cups Flour 1 Cup Cornstarch 

2 Cups Sugar 8 Eggs 

1 Cup Milk 2 Teaspoons Baking Powder 

1/2 Cup Butter 1 Teaspoon Lemon Extract 

Sift all dry ingredients; cream sugar and butter well; add gradually egg yolks, 
well beaten, beating all until very light and creamy, then add flavoring; mix flour, 
cornstarch and baking powder; alternate with milk; bake in well-buttered layer 
pans; when cold put between layers rich, dry whipped cream and use as icing, 
allowing 2 hours to harden. 

SWEETHEART FRUIT AND NUT CAKES 
1'/ 2 Cups Flour 2 Eggs 

1 Cup Sugar 2'/ 2 Teaspoons Baking Powder 

1/2 Cup Milk 1 Cup Chopped Raisins 

1/2 Cup Butter 1 Cup Chopped Nuts 

Cream the butter; beat in sugar, raisins, nuts, eggs beaten light, not separated, 
milk and flour sifted with baking powder; bake in small tins; decorate with boiled 
frosting, small red candies, chopped pistachio nuts (green) and red candle in holder. 

DEVIL'S FOOD 

1 Cup Flour !/ 2 Cup Melted Butter 

1 Cup Light Brown Sugar 1/2 Teaspoon Soda 

1/2 Cup Milk Cocoa to Color 

1 Egg 

Mix together, being careful not to get too thick. 

20 
GERMEA makes a healthy baby 



CUPID'S BOOK 

FRUIT CAKE 

4 Cups Flour !/ 4 Lb. Butter 

!/ 2 Cup Molasses 4 Teaspoons Baking Powder 

1 Cup Milk % Lb. Citron 

3 Eggs 2 Lbs. Raisins 

1 Lb. Brown Sugar !/ 2 Nutmeg, Grated 

2 Lbs. Currants !/2 Teaspoon Allspice 

Cream butter, sugar and eggs; add molasses and milk and 2 cups flour; mix 
fruit with 1 cup flour and add spices and flavorings; lastly add cup of flour, well 
sifted with baking powder; bake in slow oven. 

LAYER CAKE 

1% Cups Flour 
1 Cup Sugar 
!/ 2 Cup Milk 

Cream butter in a large bowl; when creamy add gradually sugar, beating con- 
stantly; then add egg yolks, beaten very light, and milk; beat well; mix flour and 
baking powder; sift and add; beat 3 minutes and fold in egg whites, beaten stiff and 
dry; add flavoring before folding in egg whites; bake in 3 layer cake pans that have 
been well buttered and floured; when cooled, spread with boiled frosting and sprinkle 
tops and sides with almonds which have been blanched, shedded and delicately 
browned in oven. 

CHOCOLATE LAYER CAKE 

1'/2 Cups Flour 2 Teaspoons Baking Powder 

1 Cup Sugar 5 Eggs 

1 Cake Chocolate, Unsweetened 

Grate chocolate; add flour, baking powder and eggs beaten with sugar; beat all 
15 minutes and bake in layers. 

Filling 

1 Cup Milk 1 Teaspoon Cornstarch, heaping 

Vz Cup Sugar 3 Eggs 

Butter, size Cherry 2 Teaspoons Vanilla 

Mix cornstarch smooth in cup of milk; beat eggs separately; add yolks to cup of 
milk and extract; warm; add butter and sugar; stir in egg whites, beaten when cool. 

MOCHA LAYER CAKE OR TARTS 

1 Cup Flour 1/2 Cup Butter 
!/ 2 Cup Sugar 6 Eggs 

Put eggs and sugar in a bowl; place over pot of hot water and heat until warm; 
jbeat until cold; beat eggs and sugar until very light; add flour; mix until light, then 
add melted butter, mixing in lightly; pour into a round pan about 10 inches in 
diameter and bake in moderate oven about 25 minutes; when baked, take out and 
let cool, then cut into 3 layers, putting the following filling between layers. 

MOCHA BUTTER, CREAM FILLING 

Work 6 ounces sweet butter until creamy; beat 4 egg whites to stiff froth; place 
5 ounces sugar in small saucepan with a little water; let boil until sugar forms a soft 
ball when dropped into cold water; when sugar is cooked pour it slowly into egg 
whites, stirring briskly; when cool add butter and some coffee extract, working 
together a few minutes; spread between cake layers. 

APPLE CAKE 

2 Cups Flour 4 Sour Apples 

2 Tablespoons Butter 2 Teaspoons Baking Powder 

1 Cup Milk 1 Teaspoon Salt 

Sift together flour, baking powder and salt; cut in butter until it is a fine powder; 
add milk and beaten egg; turn out on shallow, greased pan; pare, quarter and cut 
apples in thin slices; press sharp edges into dough; arrange in rows; sprinkle with 
sugar and cinnamon; bake about % hour. 

STRAWBERRY SHORTCAKE 

5'/2^Tablespoons Shortening !/ 2 Teaspoon Salt 

1 Cup Milk Strawberries 

2 Cups Flour 4 Teaspoons Baking Powder 

Mix flour, baking powder and salt and sift; into this mix well with knife or 
fingers the shortening; add milk, mixing with knife; toss the dough on a floured 
board, pat and divide dough in half; roll each half out to fit pan; place in two 
buttered pans and bake 15 minutes in hot oven; spread strawberries on top and 
between the two cakes; serve with whipped or plain cream. Any kind of berries or 
fruits may be used in the same way. 

21 
Doctors recommend GERMEA for the baby 



CUPID'S BOOK 

CARAMEL CREAM CAKE 

2 Cups Flour I ffa^o h ns e Baking Powder 

{4 III a" 1 Teaspoon V.nlll. 

'/2 Cup Butter , , 

Sift flour, adding baking powder; sift again 3 times; cream sugar and butte 
thoroughly; add flavor, then flour and milk alternately; lastly add the stiffly beate 
egg whites; bake in two layers 25 to 30 minutes. 

CARAMEL FILLING 

1 Cup Sour Cream 1 Cup Nut Meats, Chopped 

1 Cup Sugar 

Cook together until it forms a soft ball when tried in cold water; take 
fire and stir until cool. CRRISTMAS NOV ELTY 



i c c u u p p B 8 u tr p 

% C Te P as B p U oon er Sod a 1/3 Cu'p Grapefruit Pulp 

1% Cups Flour 

Cream the butter, adding sugar gradually, beating all the time; add eggs, wel 
beaten till light, then fruit juice, then flour sifted with baking powder and soda; 
beat well and then fold in fruit pulp, cut in small pieces; bake; when cool, split and 
fill with the following: Yolks of 3 eggs, beaten till thick, and 1 cup sugar, adc 
gradually add % cup grape fruit juice and stir in grated rind of 1 lemon and 
tablespoon butter; cook until thick over hot water and cool before spreading; cut 
cake in small squares; frost with 2 tablespoons grape fruit juice and 1 tablespoj 
lemon juice made thick enough to spread with powdered sugar; before the frostmi 
is firm, place a little tree, cut out of citron, in the center and drip bits of fros :mg, 
colored red, on the branches. 

TRUE LOVERS' KNOTS 

5 Cups Flour 1 Teaspoon Salt 

1 Cup Sugar 1 E 99 

% Cup Shortening 1 Teaspoon Vanilla, or 

1 Tablespoon Vinegar (strong) !/4 Teaspoon Mace, as preferred 

Cream shortening; add gradually sugar, then eggs, beaten very light, and % cup 
water, with vinegar added; sift flour with % teaspoon mace and salt, unless butter is 
used; then use % teaspoon; when well mixed knead briskly on moulding board for 1 
minute; cut off small piece of dough, roll with hands until size of lead pencil and 5 
inches long; form this into ring, joining ends neatly; roll a second piece, loop into 
first ring, join as before; this forms a "true lovers' knot"; bake in very moderate 
oven till delicate brown; when cool cover with an orange icing made of grated rind 
of 1 large orange, soaked in 3 tablespoons cool water % hour and wrung through a 
piece of cheese cloth and made just stiff enough with powdered sugar to cover knots 
smoothly. 

DOUGHNUTS 

4 Cups Flour 2 Tablespoons Melted Butter 

1 Cup Sugar !/2 Teaspoon Salt 

'/2 Cup Milk 2 Eggs 

3 Teaspoons Baking Powder Vanilla or Cinnamon 

Mix flour, baking powder and salt; sift 3 times; rub sugar and butter together; 
add well-beaten eggs, then flour and milk alternately and flavor; turn out on a well- 
floured board and roll out % inch thick; cut with doughnut cutter and fry in boiling 
fat. 

MAMMY BELDEN CAKE 

3'/2 Cups Flour 3 4 Cup Butter 

1 Cup Sugar 4 Eggs 

1'/ 2 Cups Milk 2 Teaspoons Baking Powder 

Cream sugar with butter; add milk, egg yolks and flour; beat fully 20 minutes, 
then add baking powder, egg whites and flavor. Do not beat; fold in. Bake 40 
minutes as a whole or in layers. 

SUSIE'S DREAM CAKE 

3'/ 2 Cups Flour 2 Cups Sugar 

1 Pint Milk 2 Eggs (beaten separate or together) 

% Cup Butter 1 Teaspoon Baking Powder 

Sift flour and baking powder together 3 times; add other ingredients; bake in 
layers. 

22 
The germ of the tcheat GERMEA is the most nutritious part 




TRADE 



MARK 




BRAND 



FOOD PRODUCTS 

Are Superior 

Mayonnaise Potato Chips 

Grated Cheese Vinegar 

Mustard Sausages 

Olives Cheese 

Pickles Fish 

Horseradish Oils 

Sausages, Etc., Etc. 

We aim to produce the best goods on the market 
and ask you to just try them 

At Your Dealer's 

The J. E. Shoemaker Co. 

MANUFACTURERS IMPORTERS WHOLESALERS 
Oakland San Francisco 



23 



CUPID'S BOOK 

KENTUCKY JAM CAKE 

3'A Cups Flour '/2 Teaspoon Soda 

CUD Sugar Vz Teaspoon each Cinnamon, Cloves 

1 Cuo Butter and Allspice 

5 Tablespoons Sour Cream 1 Cup Blackberry Jam 

3 Eggs, beaten separately 

Cream together butter and sugar; add eggs and soda, dissolved in the sour cream; 
then add other ingredients and bake. 

LOAF CAKE 

Cups Flour 2 Eggs, well beaten 

Cup Milk 1 Teaspoon Cream of Tartar 

Cup Butter !/2 Teaspoon Soda 

Cup Raisins, Seeded 1 Nutmeg, Grated 

1/2 Cups Sugar 

Cream together the butter and sugar; add eggs, alternate with flour, sifted, and 
milk, sifted cream of tartar and soda, adding spices and raisins; flour well. 

FILLING FOR CAKE, ETC. 

2 Cups Sugar, Powdered Vanilla or 

3 Tablespoons Milk Lemon Extract 

Whip till creamy, and flavor. 

DELICIOUS FILLING 

2 Cups Sugar, Powdered 3 Tablespoons Boiling Water 

Beat well; add small piece of butter. 

LIGHTNING CAKE 

1 Cup Flour, Heaping 1 Teaspoon Baking Powder, 

Vi Cup Butter Heaping 

'/2 Cup Milk 2/3 Cup Sugar 

1 Egg 

Sift flour, baking powder, sugar and pinch salt together; drop the egg into butter, 
lightly melted, and add milk and beat; add other ingredients; bake in 2 layers or as 
cup cake. 

DATE CAKE 

4 Egg Yolks (beat well) 1 Tablespoon Flour (heaping) 
1 Cup Sugar 1 Teaspoon Baking Powder 

1 Cup Chopped Dates (fine) Add '/ 2 Teaspoon Salt 

1 Cup Chopped Nuts (fine) Add Beaten Whites 

Beat and add to above 

Two layers. Cover with cream and lady fingers. Bake Vz hour in slow oven. 

GINGER SNAPS 

1 Cup Flour 2 Teaspoons Soda 

1 Cup Molasses 1 Teaspoon Ginger, Heaping 

1 Cup Sugar 2 Eggs 

1 Cup Butter 

Heat the sugar, molasses and butter to boiling point; take from stove and stir 
in the flour while hot; let cool; add soda, dissolved in a little vinegar; add eggs; 
ginger in the flour; beat all the rest; knead enough flour in to roll out nicely. 

JUMBLES 

2 Cups Flour \\ Teaspoon Nutmeg 

1/2 Cup Butter >/ 2 Teaspoon Vanilla or Lemon 

>/ 2 Cup Sugar 3 Eggs 

Work butter into flour, sugar and eggs, well beaten; add nutmeg, vanilla or 
lemon extract; mix well; roll out to the thickness of about % inch thick; sprinkle 
powdered sugar over the dough; cut it with a biscuit or cake cutter, so that there 
will be a hole in center; lay them on flat tin plates and bake 10 minutes in quick oven. 

BILLY GOAT COOKIES 

3 Cups Flour 1 Cup Raisins, Chopped Fine 
Cup Butter 1 Cup Walnuts, Chopped Fine 

1'/ 2 Cups Brown Sugar 1 Teaspoon Soda (scant), sifted In 
3 Eggs Flour 

' 4 Cup Water (scant) 

PLAIN COOKIES 

2/a Cups Flour 34 Cup Butter 

1|/a Cups Sugar 2 Teaspoc-ns Baking Powder 

1 Tablespoon Milk 3 Eggs 

Cream butter and sugar; add beaten eggs, sifted flour with baking powder and 
milk; roll out thin and cut in circles. 

24 
GERMEA makes strength for babies 



CUPID'S BOOK 
EXCELSIOR COOKIES 

1 Cup U Mllk I g"P s S "9 ar 

rr, 1 ^ B ,r er 2 T ""P'"' Baking Powd.r 

-wither Sfd e tak'e. addillg en Ugh fl Ur t0 makC a S ft d Ugh ' r thin ' 

COCOANUT DROP COOKIES 

1 Cup S Brown Sugar 1 T * as P on Soda 

,,. ' 1 Box ('/i Lb.) Cocoanut 

Mix well and drop from spoon on greased pans. 



Flour 

1 Quart Molasses 
1 Cup Lard 



MOLASSES COOKIES 



2 Ounces Soda 
1 Gill Water 



car < ful and not 



2 Teaspoons Ginger 

1'/2 Teaspoons Baking Powder 

Teaspoon Salt 

Egg 



SHAMROCKS 
2yi Cups Flour 
1 Cup Sugar 
!/ 2 Cup Milk 
1/3 Cup Shortening 

Cream shortening; add sugar gradually, then egg^e!! beaten then the milk- 
mix flour, baking powder, salt and ginger and sift? chill thoroughly and rolPout 
rather thick; cut with a cutter shaped to represent a three-leaved clover- bake 
rather quick oven; cool and cover with frosting colored green, or cover with shredded 
cocoanut colored green; if cocoanut is used, brush over cookies verjT lightly with 
white of egg diluted with 1 tablespoon cold water and beaten tSer- to cSS 
cocoanut, dilute green coloring with a little water, turn into shallow dish add cocoa 
nut and stir with silver fork until cocoanut is evenly colored; dry before using 

PRUNE SOUFFLE 

This is a delicious dessert, simple of ingredients and quickly prepared 
Pick over and wash 10 or 12 prunes; soak several hours in cold water'to cover- 
cook in same water until soft, then remove stones and either chop orbeat into tinv 
fragments or rub through a sieve. If the souffle is to serve six oeonfe ' ? 
whites of 4 eggs, which will be sufficient; beat until the eggs fly from the whin, 
then add 4 tablespoons of granulated sugar, 1 for each eg? beX agaTn and add 
prunes; pile lightly m a baking dish and bake until light b?own in f moderate oven 
This pudding falls easily unless the baking pan is set in a heaw ";*l r " 5 
a couple of inches of hot water, With thg precaution Tt may^en's" aS fo? "hbrt 
time after baking, provided it is left in an open oven. 

The same foundation of eggs and sugar can be used in compounding other souffles 
adding dried apricots which have been cooked according to the method for prunes 
and beaten into small fragments. Raspberries in season make a delicious '" 
stewed figs can be acceptably utilized, and, in fact, almost any fruit can 
pressed into service, unless it is very juicy, like pineapple 



Notice Please do this 

Acknowledge receipt of "Cupid's Book" by returning postal 
card found elsewhere herein. 

Publishers. 



GERMEA makes a happy baby 



Drink W-H-Y 

Now Js the Time to Start Right 
Use a Food and a Beverage 100 Per Cent Pure 



BY THIS SIGN 




YE SHALL KNOW IT IS GENUINE" 



W-H-Y is a very nutritious, energizing and healthful Food Beverage, 
should be in use daily by every member of the family. 

W-H-Y may be used either Hot or Cold. 

W-H-Y is more nutritious than meat, contains over 450 calories of 
food value per cup and is rich in Vitamines. 

W-H-Y is a thoroughly balanced food which regulates the bowels, aids 
digestion, enriches the blood and is quieting to the nerves. 

W-H-Y is a wonderful brain and nerve builder. 

W-H-Y contains the essential parts of the finest grade of selected and 
nutritious Raisins, Figs, Walnuts, Peanuts, Barley, Wheat and Celery, 
prepared in such a careful and scientific manner that they lose none of 
their valued health and body-building properties. 

Upon request and receipt of your name and address we shall be pleased 
to send you a bottle of 

W-H-Y FREE 

"Health and Happiness in Every Bottle" 



PREPARED BY 

BARTLETT NU PRODUCTS CORPORATION 
Pasadena, California, U. S. A. 



26 



A FEW PENNIES 

SAVE WILL SERVE A TASTY MEAL 

NOURISHING AND HEALTHFUL 

Hygienic Health Food Co. 

PRODUCTS 

SPECIALLY recommended and used by physicians for stom- 
^ ach ailments constipation, indigestion, sour stomach and 
sick headache, and as economical, staple foods 'for everybody. 




GRANTS HYGIENIC CRACKERS 

AND 
GRANTS HYGIENIC BREAKFAST FOOD 



Eaten Daily in Place of Bread will 
Keep the System in Perfect Order 

A WEEK'S TRIAL WILL CONVINCE YOU 



SPECIAL RECIPES ON FOLLOWING PAGES 
SAMPLES ON REQUEST 



For Sale 
By Leading Grocers 




LOOK GOOD? 

HYGIENIC HEALTH FOOD CO; 

STATION "A" 

Berkeley 3706 Berkeley, California 



27 



CUPID'S BOOK 



GRANTS HYGIENIC CRACKERS and GRANTS HYGIENIC 
BREAKFAST FOOD are every-day foods for everybody. If you are 
afflicted with constipation, indigestion, sour stomach, or sick headache, 

it is preferable and the best results will be secured by eating the Crack- 
ers dry, very slowly and masticating well. 



But 



TRY THESE RECIPES 



PAN CAKES 

Soak Grants Hygienic Crackers until 
soft (preferably over night). Fry. Salt 
and butter to taste, covering with honey 
or syrup. 

HAM OR BACON 
with Grants Hygienic Crackers 

Soak Crackers until soft. Fry ham or 
bacon. Fry Crackers in the grease. 
Place bacon or ham on Crackers. Serve, 
salting to taste. 

EGG 
on toasted Grants Hygienic Crackers 

Soak Crackers until soft. Toast Crack- 
ers on toaster or in oven (or fry). Poach, 
boil, fry or scramble eggs. Place eggs 
on toasted crackers. Serve, salting and 
peppering to taste. 

WELSH RAREBIT 
with Grants Hygienic Crackers 

Soak crackers until soft. Fry crackers 
on one side. Put heaping tablespoon 
grated cheese (Eastern) on each cracker. 
Turn over and fry. Serve hot and salt 
to taste. 

CREAMED PEAS 
with Grants Hygienic Crackers 

Soak crackers until soft. When ready 
to use place in oven to heat and toast. 
Cook peas and thicken with flour which 
has been stirred in milk. Add salt and 
butter. Cut crackers in strips and pour 
the creamed peas over them. Serve hot. 

ASPARAGUS 
with Grants Hygienic Crackers 

Soak crackers until soft. Have freshly 
cooked or hot canned asparagus and a 
cream sauce ready. Heat crackers in 
oven. Butter hot crackers. Cut aspar- 
agus into short pieces and place on 
crackers, covering with cream sauce. Salt 
and pepper to taste. 



FRUITED GRANTS HYGIENIC 
CRACKERS 

Break crackers into small pieces. Put 
berries or fruit (any kind) and juices at 
side of dish. Cover with whipped cream. 

HYGIENIC PATTIES 

Beat together 1 cup Grants Hygienic 
Breakfast Food, 2 cups milk (or water), 

1 egg, Vz teaspoon salt. Add more mlik 
if necessary. Fry. 

CHICKEN SALAD 

Mix together 2 tablespoons Grants 
Hygienic Breakfast Food, 2 tablespoons 
mayonnaise, 1 cup finely chopped chicken, 
V* cup finely ^chopped celery, and shred- 
ded lettuce. Add whipped cream until 
soft enough to bind. Lay on lettuce 
leaves, add dressing, chopped sweet 
pickle and a little parsley. 

PIMENTO CHEESE SALAD 

Beat to stand white of one egg. Add 

2 tablespoons Grants Hygienic Breakfast 
Food, and cream together. Add (a little 
at a time) a small pimento cheese. Add 
whipped cream until soft creamy balls 
can be formed. Shred a portion of head 
lettuce, mix with 2 tablespoons mayon- 
naise. Salt. Form the shredded lettuce 
and mayonnaise in 3-inch strips, lay in 
lettuce leaf, add ball on top, add more 
mayonnaise and sliced hard boiled egg. 
(Enough for 6 persons.) 

CRAB SALAD 

Beat to stand whites of 2 eggs, add 
2 tablespoons Grants Hygienic Breakfast 
Food, mixing well together. Add % cup 
chopped celery and salt to taste. Shred 
one can crab and add to mixture together 
with a little mayonnaise. Place on let- 
tuce leaves and cover with mayonnaise. 



BEWARE OF IMITATIONS 

28 



CUPID'S BOOK 



PLAIN OMELET 

Beat 4 eggs, add 2 tablespoons Grants 
Hygienic Breakfast Food, then 1 cup 
milk. Mix well, salt and fry. 

CHEESE OMELET 

Beat 3 eggs, add 2 tablespoons milk, 
and 1 tablespoon Grants Hygienic Break- 
fast Food. Salt and add }4 cup grated 
cheese. Serve as omelet or drop by 
spoonful and fry. 

STUFFED TOMATOES 

Take 6 firm ripe tomatoes, cut off tops 
(set tops aside). Remove portion of in- 
side of tomatoes and place in a bowl. 
Chop part removed from tomatoes, add 1 
tablespoon sugar, % teaspoon salt, }4 
teaspoon paprika, 2 tablespoons Grants 
Hygienic Breakfast Food. Mix well, add- 
ing enough water to form ball (make six 
balls to fit tomatoes). Put a piece of 
butter on top of ball, and place ball in- 
side tomato. Replace tops of tomatoes 
and bake. Serve hot. 

If desired, chopped onion or onion 
juice may be added and either Spanish 
dressing or mayonnaise may be served 
on top. 

(Stuffed Bell Peppers may be pre- 
pared in similar manner.) 

SALMON LOAF 

Take 2 cups Grants Hygienic Break- 
fast Food, add 1 cup water, % teaspoon 
salt, add can of salmon and mix together. 
Break 2 eggs and cut with knife until 
thoroughly mixed. Add this to salmon 
mixture and form into roll. Beat third 
egg and cover roll and bake. 

Make a sauce of milk (or half milk 
and half water). Thicken with flour. 
To 1 cup milk use 1 teaspoon flour. Salt 
to taste. When thickened, add chopped 
hard boiled egg. 

Pour sauce over baked salmon roll, and 
serve. 

PEACH PUDDING 

Mix together juice of 1 can peaches 
(or if fresh fruit is used, 1 cup water), 
1 cup Grants Hygienic Breakfast Food, 



~Vz cup sugar and 1 egg. Bake and serve 
with whipped cream. 

PLUM PUDDING 

Mix together 1 cup Grants Hygienic 
Breakfast Food, 2 beaten eggs, 2 cups 
raisins, 1 cup currants, citron shaved in 
small pieces, suet finely chopped (about 
tablespoonful), teaspoonful cinnamon and 
a dash of allspice. 

Bake or use double boiler. Serve with 
sherry sauce, or cream together pow- 
dered sugar and butter, adding any 
flavor desired. Sprinkle with chopped 
walnuts. 

PINEAPPLE PUDDING 

To 1% cups Grants Hygienic Break-* 
fast Food add 1 cup water, % cup sugar, 
and 1 can shredded pineapple. Mix well. 
Bake about 20 minutes. Serve with 
whipped cream. 

HYGIENIC CUSTARD 

Beat 2 eggs, add % teaspoonful salt, 
and sugar. Add 1 cup each of milk and 
Grants Hygienic Breakfast Food. But- 
ter tin or glass dish. Pour in ingredi- 
ents and bake as custard. When cool 
flavor, and serve with sweetened whipped 
cream. 

NUT SUNDAE 

Mix 1 quart cream, 1 pint milk, 1 
tablespoon vanilla, 1 cup sugar and a 
little salt. To this add 1 cup Grants 
Hygienic Breakfast Food. Mix well and 
freeze. 

Serve, pouring over each dish crushed 
strawberry syrup, and sprinkling with 
chopped nuts. 

HOT CHOCOLATE FUDGE 

Mix 1 pint cream, 1 cup milk, V* tea- 
spoon salt, 1 cup sugar, 1 cup crushed 
strawberries and 1 cup Grants Hygienic 
Breakfast Food. Freeze. Serve, pour- 
ing over same boiled hot chocolate. 

(Hot boiled chocolate may be made as 
follows: Take 2 cups sugar, one-half 
cup milk and 2 tablespoons chocolate 
Boil till thick.) 



If you cannot obtain our foods from your grocer, tell us his name and we will 
deliver same prepaid to you at the following prices: 

Grants Hygienic Crackers 30c per pkg. 

Grants Hygienic Breakfast Food 20c per pkg. 

Keepwell (Malt Syrup) Cracker _30c per pkg! 

Lotz "Sacchar" Cracker 25c per pkg! 

HYGIENIC HEALTH FOOD CO., Station "A", Berkeley, California 

29 



IN \v\ i i 

250 Doctors RECOMMEND 



A SWEET 

GLUTENOUS B^^2*ffiMfl WITHOUT 

fRAOKFR SUGAR 



CONSTIPATION 

INDIGESTION 

DYSPEPSIA SICK HEADACHE 

SOUR STOMACH 

Especially for 

DIABETICS 

AND THOSE WHO SHOULD ABSTAIN FROM THE USE OF SUGAR 




What the Editor of HEALTH Says: 
Hygienic Health Food Co., 

Berkeley, Cal. 

Gentlemen: I have made a test of the "Sacchar" Cracker 
and find it to be good for encouraging proper mastication and 
easily digested. It ought to prove a valuable staple for those 
suffering from diabetes, indigestion and constipation. 
Yours very truly, 

THOS. J. ALLEN, M.D.JXD. 



ARE YOU ONE OF THE SEVEN? 

Statistics show that seven out of ten persons are afflicted with some 
stomach ailment constipation, dyspepsia, sick headache, or sour 
stomach. 

RELIEF IS AT YOUR DISPOSAL 

Our foods have cured these ailments and have saved the lives of 
thousands. From one side of the continent to the other they are recom- 
mended and eaten by doctors and physicians. (We have their testi- 
monials.) 

WITHOUT MEDICINE 

Our foods are not Medicated, but are composed of a blend of coarse 
ground grains and vegetable oils so scientifically combined that their 
natural properties provoke the bowels to their normal healthy action. 

BUY THIS EVERY DAY FOOD 

Try eating our foods one meal a day for a week and see how much 
better you feel and how mu.-h you save Once tried not denied. 

Beware of Imitation*, oi Our Products 



Manufactured and Guaranteed by 

Hygienic Health Food Co, 

Seventh and Allston, Berkeley, Cal. 



30 



PIES 



PIE PASTE 

1'/2 Cups Flour Pinch Salt % Cup Lard 

Sift together dry ingredients thoroughly; work in lard with knife or rounding 
edge of a tablespoon or spatula; moisten to a dough with cold water; put lightly on 
floured board and roll thin ready for use. 

APPLE PIE 

About 4 Tart Apples !/2 Cup Sugar 

Peel, core and slice apples thin; line pie pan with paste; put in apples, sugar and 
a little water; wet edges, cover with paste rolled out very thin; bake in moderate, 
steady oven until apples are cooked. 

Note. Any green fruit pies can be made in similar'manner to above. 

Note. To prevent juice of pies boiling out into oven wet the edges when upper 
and lower crusts are joined with thin paste made of 1 teaspoon flour and 3 of water, 
instead of clear water. Adding cinnamon and butter will improve. 

LEMON PIE 

1/2 Cup Sugar 2 Eggs 

2'/ 2 Cups Milk 1 Lemon 

1'/2 Tablespoons Cornstarch 

Mix cornstarch with a little milk; heat balance of milk and when it boils stir in 
cornstarch and boil 1 minute; let cool and add egg yolks, 2 heaping tablespoons sugar 
and grated rind and juice of lemon, all well beaten together; use a deep pie pan lined 
with paste and fill with mixture; bake slowly % hour; beat the egg whites to stiff 
froth and gradually beat in remainder of sugar; cover pie with this and brown slowly. 

LEMON CREAM PIE 

5 Teaspoons Flour 1'/2 Cups Boiling Water 

1 Cup Sugar 4 Eggs 1 Lemon 

Beat egg yolks and whites separately; add to yolks the sugar, flour, lemon juice 
and grated rind and lastly boiling water; cook in double boiler and when it begins to 
thicken add % of beaten egg whites; stir this thoroughly and cook it until thick as 
desired; use remainder of egg whites for meringue to top off pie; after custard has 
cooled fill a baked shell of pie paste, pile meringue on top and bake in a very slow 
oven until meringue is brown. 

CUSTARD PIE 

1/3 Cup Flour or Cornstarch 6 Eggs 

3 Cups Milk 1!/2 Cups Sugar 

1 Cup Butter 

Mix and flavor to taste; sufficient for 3 pies; bake pie crust first. 

COCOANUT PIE 

1 Cup Butter !/2 Cocoanut (Grated) 

2 Cups Powdered Sugar 6 Eggs 

Cream butter with sugar; beat in cocoanut; fold in lightly the stiffened egg whites; 
turn into a deep pie pan lined with puff paste; bake in quick oven. Eat cold with 
powdered sugar and cream. 

PUMPKIN PIE 

1/2 Cup Sugar V* Teaspoon Allspice 

1/2 Cups Milk !/4 Teaspoon Cloves 

1 Cup Stewed Pumpkin 2 Eggs 
i/i Teaspoon Ginger 

Beat eggs; add sugar, pumpkin and spices; beat thoroughly; then add milk and 
mix thoroughly; bake in pie paste crust. 

SQUASH PIE 

2 Cups Squash 1 Teaspoon Cinnamon 
1'/2 Cups Milk '/2 Tablespoon Ginger 

1 Tablespoon Melted Butter 2 Tablespoons Molasses 

1 Cup Brown Sugar 2 Eggs 

Mix in order given; strain into a deep plate lined with paste. 

RHUBARB PIE 

1 Teaspoon Flour 1 Cup Stewed Rhubarb 

1 Cup Sugar 1 Egg and Pinch Salt 

Stir flour into other ingredients; bake without top crust and frost. 

31 
GERMEA makes a happy baby 



CUPID'S BOOK 
RAISIN PIE 

1 Cup Seeded Raisins 1 Tablespoon Sugar 

1 Tablespoon Butter 1 Teaspoon Vinegar 

Cook raisins in enough cold water for 1 pie; add butter; mix all together; bake in 
two crusts. 

BERRY PIE 

2 Boxes Berries 1 Cup Cream (Small) 
1i/ 2 Cups Powdered Sugar Vz Lemon 

Wash berries; add 1 cup sugar; let stand at least two hours in ice box, then put 
through cheese cloth; add balance of sugar, 1 cup water, juice of % lemon and cream; 
freeze. This mixture makes about a quart. 

Grate the rind of lemons into a bowl and squeeze in the juice; make a boiling 
syrup of sugar and half water and pour it hot on the lemon rind and juice; let it 
remain until cold, then add rest of water; strain the lemonade into a freezer and 
freeze as usual and at last add whites whipped to a firm froth; beat and freeze again. 
The scalding draws the flavdr from the lemons. It should never be boiled and fewer 
lemons used when they are very large. This ice is perfectly white. 

Note. Loganberry, raspberry, blackberry, gooseberry, elderberry or grape pie 
may be made as above, using more sugar with some. 



Lbs. Boiled 

Lbs. Beef Suet 

Lbs. Currants 

Lbs. Raisins 

Lb. Citron 

Lb. Candled Lemon 
!/2 Lb. Orange Peel 
3 Lbs. Peeled Apples 



MINCED MEAT (ENGLISH) 

Beef 2 Lbs. Sugar 

2 Ounces Ground Spices (equal 
proportions of Nutmeg, Cloves 
and Cinnamon) 
Grated Rind of 6 Oranges 
6 Lemons 

1'/ 2 Pints Boiled Cider or Strong 
Grape Juice 



Thoroughly clean currants and raisins; cut citron in small pieces; remove skin 
from and cut suet up fine; place these with the lemon and orange peel, currants, 
raisins and candied lemons in an earthen jar; chop apples and add; trim meat lean 
and clear (see that it weighs 2 Ibs. when trimmed); chop this and add to rest; then 
add sugar and spice; mix all together; then add cider or grape juice and cover jar; 
over it place a cloth and tie firmly to exclude the air and prevent evaporation. The 
mincemeat should be kept in a cold place. It is better to stand a week after being 
made. 



The 




Stands for the name 
of the firm 

The J. E. Shoemaker Co. 



TRADE 1MARK 



The 




stands for the name of 
the brand. The shoe- 
makers will stick to the 

last for the sole purpose 

of producing the best goods on the market. 

THE J. E. SHOEMAKER CO. 

Oakland "At Your Grocer's" San Francisco 



32 



ICE CREAM, ICES, SHERBETS 



STRAIGHT ICE CREAM 

2 Quarts Milk 1 Tablespoon Vanilla or 

3 Cups Sugar Lemon Extract 

Stir together and freeze, allowing plenty of room in freezer for expansion. 

VANILLA ICE CREAM 

4 Cups Milk 1 Tablespoon Vanilla or 
1!/ 2 Cups Sugar 4 Eggs Lemon Extract 

Prepare and cook ingredients in the same general way as given in the following 
recipe: 

NEW YORK ICE CREAM 

5 Cups Milk 1 Tablespoon Vanilla or 
1 Cup Sugar Lemon Extract 

4 Egg Yolks 1 Pinch Salt 

1 Tablespoon Gelatine 

Make a custard of milk, sugar, eggs and salt; bring to a boil; remove from fire 
and add gelatine, melted in a little warm water; cool, strain and flavor; whip the 
cream; add it to custard and freeze after it has become cold. 

CARAMEL ICE CREAM 

1 Cup Sugar 1 Cup Boiling Water 

1 Quart Cream Vanilla 

Melt % cup sugar in frying pan and when brown add the water; let simmer 10 
minutes; strain; add cream and % cup sugar; flavor and freeze. 

CHOCOLATE ICE CREAM 

2 Squares Chocolate 2 Pints Milk 

3 Cups Sugar 2 Pints Water 

!/2 Pint Milk 1 Tablespoon Gelatine 

'/a Pint Water (Hot) 

Dissolve chocolate in 2 tablespoons boiling water; add this with the sugar to the 
hot milk; boil until it foams, stirring, as it burns quickly; add the 2 pints milk and 
water; when just lukewarm remove from fire and stir in quickly the gelatine, dis- 
solved in warm water; let stand in cool place until set firm and cool, then freeze. 

ORANGE ICE 

7 Oranges 4 Egg Whites 

2 Lemons 2'/ 2 Pints Sugar 

Boil sugar in 2% quarts water about 15 or 20 minutes; cool; add strained juice 
and when almost frozen add beaten egg whites and freeze. This will make about 5 
quarts of ice. Serve in sherbet glasses or orange cups. 

LEMON SHERBET 

1 Pint Lemon Juice 2 Ounces Gelatine 
Vz Glass Orange Juice 2 Cups Sugar 

Soak gelatine over night in % pint water; in the morning add 3 quarts of water 
and let it come to a boiling point; strain fruit juice, add sugar (to taste) and freeze. 

LEMON MILK SHERBET 

2 Pints Milk 2 Cups Sugar Juice of 3 Lemons 
Dissolve sugar with milk; add lemon juice slowly and freeze. 

FRUIT SHERBET 

3 Lemons 2 "A Cups Sugar 
1 Orange 1 Egg White 
1/2 Cup Pineapple (Shredded) 1 Quart Water 

Boil water and several slices of lemon and orange peel 10 minutes; cool; add 
juice and pineapple; freeze; when almost frozen add egg white, beaten. 



33 




THE SHOP OF 

ARTISTIC GIFT AND ART OBJECTS 

Let us help you furnish the new home. Our lines of distinc- 
tive house decoration are new and moderately priced. Start 
right and have your home practically and beautifully dec- 
orated. 



LAMPS 
CARDS 
PICTURES 
PLAQUES 




CANDLESTICKS 
SCONCES 
POTTERY 
BOOK ENDS 



HAND - HAMMERED COPPER 

Baskets of every kind Incense and Incense Burners 

Pine Cone Flowers Antique Furniture 

SPECIALTIES for GIFTS 




be Copper Shop 



MRS. B. G. WHITAKER 
MRS. J. G. BRAGDON 



Telephone Lakeside 2427 
632 Fourteenth Street Oakland, California 



34 



PUDDINGS 



COTTAGE PUDDING 

2 Cups Flour !4 Cup Butter 

/2 Cup Sugar 3 Tablespoons Baking Powder 

1 Cup Milk /2 Teaspoon Salt 

1 Egg, Well Beaten 

Cream the butter; add gradually sugar and egg; stir together thoroughly the flour, 
baking powder and salt and add alternately with milk to first mixture; bake in mod- 
erate oven 35 minutes; serve with vanilla or hard sauce, crushed berries, juicy fruits, 
jellies or preserves. 

COCOANUT PUDDING 

/2 Cocoanut / 2 Cup Sugar 

/4 Loaf Bakers' Bread 1 Cup Butter 

1 Pint Milk 3 Eggs 

Grate cocoanut; stew slowly in milk; pour this on bread; when cool add sugar 
and butter beaten to a cream, then add eggs and bake. Bread Pudding Leave out 
cocoanut. 

PLUM PUDDING 

2 Cups Flour 1/ 2 Cups Suet, Chopped Very Fine 
/2 Cup Citron 1/ 2 Cups Raisins (Seeded) 

1/2 Cup Milk 1/2 Cups Currants (Mashed and 

/ 2 Cup Orange Marmalade Picked) 

4 Eggs 1 Teaspoon Baking Powder 

1/2 Cups Sugar 1 Teaspoon Cinnamon 

1/2 Cups Coffee (Liquid) 1 Teaspoon Each Cloves and 

1/2 Cups Grated Bread Nutmeg 

Mix all together in large bowl; put in well-buttered mould; set in saucepan with 
boiling water to reach half way up its sides; now steam 3 or 4 hours; turn out care- 
fully on dish and serve with cider or hard sauce. 

PRUNE WHIP 

i/ 2 Lb. Prunes 2 Eggs 

1/4 Cup Sugar / 2 Tablespoon Lemon Juice 

Wash prunes and soak over night; cook in same water until quite soft; remove 
stones and press prunes through a potato masher; add sugar and cook 5 minutes; 
beat egg whites to very stiff froth; add this, with lemon juice, to prune pulp, stirring 
in lightly with a folk; put all in a buttered shallow dish and bake 20 minutes in a 
slow oven; serve with cream or custard made from egg yolks. 

BERRY ROLL 

1 Pint Flour 1 Teaspoon Baking Powder 

1 Teaspoon Butter J4 Teaspoon Salt 

% Cup Milk Berries 

Sift flour with baking powder; mix into this the butter and salt; add milk and 
roll out l /3 inch thick; spread plentifully with any kind of berries; sift sugar over and 
roll; bake % hour and serve hot with sauce. 

NEWLYWEDS' APPLE DUMPLINGS 

1 Cup Sugar Tart Apples 

1 Tablespoon Flour (Large) 1 Pint Hot Water 

Make a fairly rich biscuit dough; pare and slice apples (a fluted potato slicer is 
fine for this); roll dough out % inch thick; cover with the sliced apples; roll up like 
jelly cake; cut slices from this roll % inch thick and place in a bake pan, not too close 
together; now mix together the sugar and flour in a saucepan; add gradually the hot 
water and cook until clear, stirring constantly; dip this same, flavored to taste, over 
dumplings and place at once in oven or steam cooker and cook 45 minutes; if 
steamed, place in oven few minutes to brown slightly. 

APPLE TAPIOCA 

4 Cups Tapioca Sugar and Salt 

4 Large Apples, Sound 

Soak tapioca over night in water; next morning add a small pinch of salt and 
set on back of range and cook until clear; select apples of cooking variety; scoop out 
the stem end and fill with sugar; sprinkle lightly with cinnamon; place in a casserole 
or granite baking dish; pour over them tapioca and bake in hot oven until apples are 
soft; serve hot with hard sauce. 

35 
GERMEA makes strength for babies 



CUPID'S BOOK 

APRICOT CREAM 

1 Lb. Dried Apricots 2 Cups Whipped Cream 

1 Cup Sugar 

Wash apricots and soak for several hours, or over night, in 2 cups water; pour 
off the water into a saucepan; add the sugar and cook for 5 minutes, or until a thick 
syrup is formed; pour this syrup over the apricots; cool and put through a sieve, 
using only enough syrup to make a soft pulp with the fruit; add to the whipped cream 
and serve very cold with whipped cream on top. 

PEACH COBBLER SOUTHERN STYLE 

4 Cups Flour 1 E9S 

1'/ 2 Cups Butter Fruit 

Sugar 

A large pie baked in shallow tins about 1% inches in depth, with bottom and top 
crusts, glazed and sugared on top and cut put in squares and triangular pieces. Fine 
puff paste is too rich for this purpose; ordinary pie crust made with butter and flour 
is best. Cover the bottom of pan with a sheet of paste rolled quite thin; fill with ripe 
peeled peaches; sprinkle over them half their weight of sugar and a little nutmeg; 
cover with another thin layer of paste and bake about 45 minutes; when half done 
brush over the top with egg and water and sprinkle sugar over; put back and bake to 
a rich color; if fruit is too dry make a sauce. All sorts of fruit, fresh or canned, may 
be used. Canned fruits should be stewed down until juice becomes thick. 

DATE PUDDING 

3 Cups Flour !/2 Teaspoon Salt 

1 Cup Molasses '/a Teaspoon Cloves 
!/2 Cup Milk '/2 Teaspoon Allspice 
1/3 Cup Butter !/2 Teaspoon Nutmeg 

4 Teaspoons Baking Powder % Lb. Dates, Cut in Pieces 

Melt butter; add to molasses and milk; sift together flour, baking powder, salt 
and spices and add with dates; put into a buttered mould and steam 2% hours; serve 
with cider sauce. 

RICE PUDDING 

1/2 Cup Rice 1 Tablespoon Lemon Rind (Chopped 

1/2 Cup Sugar Fine) 

1/2 Pints Milk Large Pinch Salt 

Put rice, washed and picked, sugar, salt and milk in quart pudding dish; bake in 
moderate oven 2 hours, stirring frequently for the first 1% hours, then allow it to 
finish cooking with light brown crust, disturbing it no more; eat cold with cream. 

THANKSGIVING PUDDING 

2 Cups Flour, Graham or Whole >/ 2 Teaspoon Salt 
Wheat !/2 Teaspoon Soda 

1/2 Cup Molasses '/4 Teaspoon Cloves 

1 Cup Milk V* Teaspoon Allspice 

1 Cup Raisins !4 Teaspoon Nutmeg 

2 Tablespoons Shortening 

Mix and sift flour, salt, soda and spices; add milk, molasses and melted short- 
ening; beat well and stir in raisins, seeded and cut in small pieces; turn into a well- 
greased mould; tie the cover on firmly and steam for 2% hours; serve with liquid or 
hard sauce. 

CHRISTMAS PUDDING 

!/2 Cup Flour 1 Cup Citron 

% Cup Suet 3 Eggs 

S'A Cups Stale Bread 1'/2 Cups Dark Sugar 

l'/4 Cups Raw Carrots V* Teaspoon Cloves 

1 Teaspoon Baking Powder ' 2 Teaspoon Nutmeg, Grated 

1 Lemon 1 Teaspoon Cinnamon 

1 Cup Raisins, Seeded 1'/ 2 Teaspoons Salt 

% Cup Currants 1 Tablespoon Vinegar (Strong) 

Cream in a warm bowl, with the hand, finely chopped suet; add grated carrot, 
fine stale bread crumbs from inside baker's loaf; mix these well and add grated lemon 
rind and vinegar; beat egg yolks very light and add gradually sugar; beat these two 
mixtures well together; sift flour with baking powder, salt and spices; mix seeded 
raisins, currants and citron cut in small pieces; stir this into other mixture; beat well 
and then lastly fold into it egg whites, beaten stiff; turn into a buttered mould and 
steam 3% hours; unfold on a hot dish and garnish with holly berries and leaves; 
serve with liquid sauce. 

36 



PUDDING SAUCES 



HARD SAUCE 

!/4 Cup Butter !/ 2 Teaspoon Lemon or Vanilla 

!/ 2 Cup Sugar, Powdered or a Little Nutmeg 

Rub butter to a cream in a warm bowl; add sugar gradually and flavor; pack it 
smoothly in a small dish; stamp it with a butter mould or the bottom of a figured 
glass; keep it on ice till very hard or pile it lightly on a fancy dish, like Snowdrift 
Sauce. 

HARD SAUCE 

1 Cup Sugar 2 Eggs 

!/ 2 Cup Butter 1 Teaspoon Nutmeg 

Beat sugar and butter to white cream; add egg whites; beat few minutes; add 
boiled cider and nutmeg; put on ice until needed. 

CIDER SAUCE (formerly Brandy Sauce) 

!/2 Tablespoon Flour 3 Tablespoons Cornstarch 

2 Tablespoons Butter, Rounded 1 Teaspoon Vanilla 
% Cup Sugar, Brown Pinch Salt 

2 Tablespoons Boiled Cider 

Melt % the butter; add flour, cornstarch and salt; when well blended, add 1 pint 
hot water gradually and cook 5 or 6 minutes; then add sugar; cook a minute; add 
vanilla and cider; remove from fire; add balance of butter and beat until very smooth; 
strain if necessary; serve with steamed pudding. 

CARAMEL SAUCE 

1/3 Cup Sugar 1 Pint Cream 

Put sugar in spider, stir over fire until melted and light brown; add very grad- 
ually % cup boiling water and simmer 10 minutes; or melt sugar in saucepan; add 
cream and set over hot water until the caramel liquefies. 

LEMON SAUCE 

1 Cup Sugar 2 Tablespoons Cornstarch 

2 Cups Hot Water 1 Lemon 2 Tablespoons Butter 

Mix sugar and cornstarch; add boiling water gradually, stirring it all the time; 
cook 8 or 10 minutes; add lemon juice and butter; serve hot. 

ORANGE SAUCE 

1 Teaspoon Cornstarch 3 Oranges 

2 Tablespoons Sugar 

Mix cornstarch and sugar; squeeze juice of oranges and heat it; when sufficiently 
hot add cornstarch and sugar and cook till clear. 

BERRY ROLL SAUCE 

'/a Cup Sugar 1 Teaspoon Cornstarch 

1 Cup Milk 1 Cup Berries, Mashed 

1 Tablespoon Butter 

Cream together sugar and butter, berries and milk; wet cornstarch in enough 
milk to dissolve it and stir in slowly; let boil 3 minutes and serve. 

CHRISTMAS PUDDING SAUCE 

Use or not, as desired. Melt 2 tablespoons butter in small saucepan; add 1 
tablespoon cornstarch; mix well; add 1 cup water and bring to boiling point, stirring 
all the time; then add % cup brown sugar and % teaspoon vanilla. 




37 



"MADE FOR THOSE WHO WANT THE BEST" 




BEFORE 



and 
EATING 



AFTER 





C HOCO\LATL5 



You have had Chocolates where you have looked through the 
box seeking another "like the last one." In the Ma Belle box 
all are equally delightful with the greatest assortment of 
dainty confections it is possible to give. Each succeeding 
"Ma Belle" Chocolate is not like the last one it is just a little 
better and the very last one makes you want another box. 
That is the secret of Ma Belle Individuality. 

"Keep Your Wife Your Sweetheart and let Her be the Judge" 



Ma Belle Chocolates 

are 
Made in Oakland 

at 
475 Nineteenth Street, near Broadway 

Phone Lakeside 536 



For sale at all first-class cigar stores, drug stores and candy stores 
who do not manufacture 



CONFECTIONS 



"Sweets for the Sweet" 

FUDGE 

2 Cups Sugar 1 Cup Molasses 

1 Cup Milk 2 Squares Chocolate 
Butter (Size of Egg) Vanilla 

Cook until crisp; beat until it sugars; pour on buttered pan; cut into squares. 

DIVINITY CANDY 

2 Cups Sugar 1 Cup Nuts 
'/ 2 Cup White Syrup Vz Cup Water 
2 Egg Whites 

Cook together sugar, syrup and Vz cup water until it hardens in cold water or 
cracks against the cup; beat egg whites to a stiff froth; when the syrup is ready pour 
slowly into the egg whites and beat hard until it is stiff; add nuts and flavoring before 
syrup gets cold; put in a deep dish, so as to slice it when cold. It is fine. 

PINOCHE 
2 Cups Brown Sugar 1 Cup Walnut Meats (Chopped) 

1 Cup Cream 1 Large Piece Butter 

Cook sugar and cream until done; add nuts; take off stove and let cool 5 minutes; 
then beat till right consistency. 

BUTTER SCOTCH 
% Cup Butter 1 Cup Molasses 

2 Cups Sugar 1/3 Cup Vinegar 

Cook all together, stirring until brittle when dropped in cold water; pour into 
butter tins and mark for breaking before cold. 

CREAM TAFFY CANDY 

2 Cups Sugar 1 Teaspoon Cream Tartar 

Butter, Size Walnut 1 Tablespoon Vinegar 

1 Cup Water Vanilla Extract 

Boil until threads; cool and pull. 

PLAIN CARAMELS 

2 Cups Sugar 1/3 Cup Butter 

% Cup Milk 1 Teaspoon Vanilla or Lemon 

Stir until it begins to boil, but not again; cook until it turns a light brown (20 to 
25 minutes); pour out on buttered tins; when partly cooled mark off in squares. 

COCOANUT CARAMELS 

1'/ 2 Lbs. Sugar !4 Cup Water 

'/4 Cup Cream 1 Pint Cocoanut (Grated) 

Boil together 10 minutes; add cocoanut; boil 10 minutes more; pour out on 
buttered dish; when cool cut into bars. 

ROSE HONEY 

Take 3 red roses, 3 cups honey, 1 cup water, put in saucepan over fire, bringing 
it gradually to the boiling point; add rock alum the size of a bean and continue boil- 
ing till syrup is thick. Strain through a cheese cloth while still hot. Put away in 
glasses or jars. Any other flower, not poisonous, can be used. Clover, lilac, lily of 
the valley or anything bees love to gather. In bulk as large as 3 roses. This is won- 
derfully pleasing. 

TRILBY CREAM 

1/2 Pint Cream '/ 2 Cup Walnut Meats 

1 Cup Marshmallows 2 Oranges (Pulp) 

Whip cream; beat egg whites stiff and fold together lightly; add marshmallows, 

nuts and orange pulp, a little powdered sugar if desired; serve in sherbet cups with 

a candied cherry on top. 

39 



Health and Happiness 

Why Candies and Cakes Are Good for Even the Children 

By DR. LEONARD K. HIRSHBERG, A. B., M. A., M. D. 
(Johns Hopkins University) 

Several alert, intelligent correspondents beg me to give the facts 
which make me disagree with the general statement that sugars, candies 
and sweets "are not good" for children and old persons. 

There are many facts to convince open-minded persons that sugary 
articles are not only beneficial, but decidedly necessary to children of the 
first as well as the second childhood. 

The intuitive and instinctive hunger of the tissues of youngsters for 
candies and cakes is theirs by virtue of necessity. It is "the call of the 
wild." 

Sugar is required by the muscles and spent muscles hunger for it. 
The muscular activity and play of little ones burns up the reservoirs of 
stored sweets. The mouth is then notified and the craving must be sat- 
isfied preferably after meals and between meals never immediately 
before the next meal. 

Experiments prove that sugar in the blood is, perchance, its main, 
essential nutriment. The heart is practically all muscle, and an insuf- 
ficient amount of sugar eaten by anyone who is active in a muscular 
way may make a deficit in the amount of sugar in the blood, a condition 
that can interfere with the growth and vitality of the heart. 

A sensation of oppression or of pain around the heart after exercise 
may often be relieved by eating candies and sweets. 

In elderly persons, sudden death has been known to occur, and in 
others has been diverted because of a paucity of sugar in the blood. 
Sugar given by the mouth is not reliable then. It must be infused in the 
form of grape sugar with the victim in bed. 

Commonly enough, in many with heart disorders, permanent im- 
provement in the general physical condition of those with certain types 
of heart disease takes place when a daily injection of half a pint of a 
20 per cent grape sugar mixture is infused. 

Finally it has been proved objectively and experimentally that nearly 
95 per cent of the infused sugar disappears at once from the blood and is 
taken up greedily by the muscles of the heart and the arteries, the liver 
and the muscles in general. 



Belle Chocolates Will Satisfy' 

MADE IN OAKLAND BY TWO MAIDS 



40 



FILLINGS and ICINGS 



CHOCOLATE FILLING 

11/2 Squares Chocolate 1 Cup Sugar 

3 Tablespoons Milk '/2 Teaspoon Vanilla 

Melt chocolate; add Vz cup sugar and milk; stir until smooth; add remainder of 
sugar; cook over hot water 20 minutes, then add vanilla. 

CARAMEL FILLING 
1 Lb. Brown Sugar 2 Eggs 

1 Cup Milk Vanilla 

Boil sugar and milk until it will harden when dropped into cold water; beat yolks 
of eggs and whites separately, then combine them; gradually pour the hot syrup over 
them, beating all the time; add flavoring and beat until cool and quite thick. 

WHIPPED CREAM FILLING 

% Cup Cream 1 Egg White 

l /4 Cup Powdered Sugar '/ 2 Teaspoon Vanilla 

Set medium-sized bowl in pan of crushed ice, to which water has been added; 
place cream in bowl and beat until stiff with wire whip or, if possible, use patent cream 
whipper; whip up well that air bubbles may not be too large; add sugar, egg white, 
beaten stiff, and vanilla; keep cool. 

CUPID'S FILLING 

2 Cups Sugar, Powdered % Cup Butter 

Beat thoroughly; use strong, black coffee for Mocha Cake. Use chocolate if 
desired. 

BOILED NUT OR FRUIT FROSTING 

1/2 Cup Fruit (Chopped Fine) \/ 2 Cup Nuts (Chopped Fine) 

You may use walnuts, almonds, pecans, hickory or hazel nuts, figs, dates, raisins 
or selected prunes. Add to frosting separately or in combination. 

BOILED CHOCOLATE FROSTING 

2 Ounces Chocolate Vanilla 

!/2 Cup Milk 2 Egg Whites Powdered Sugar 

Boil chocolate and cream; add vanilla when cool; beat whites to stiff froth; add 
the sugar until stiff enough to cut; combine the two mixtures; beat and spread. 

MARSHMALLOW FROSTING 

l/i Lb. Marshmallows 1 Teaspoon Vanilla 

>/ 4 Cup Milk or Water 2 Egg Whites 

Break marshmallows in pieces; add milk or water; put in double boiler over boil- 
ing water; stir until melted; take from fire and while hot pour into the well-beaten egg 
whites; add vanilla. 

BOILED ICING 

1 Cup Sugar 1 Teaspoon Flavoring 

1/3 Cup Water 1 Egg White (Large) 

!/4 Teaspoon Cream of Tartar 

Beat egg white until frothy; add cream of tartar; beat until stiff and dry; make 
syrup of sugar and water; when it has reached the honey stage, or drops heavily from 
spoon, add 5 tablespoons slowly to egg, beating in well; then cook remainder of syrup 
until it threads and pour over egg, beating thoroughly; add flavoring and beat unitl 
cool enough to spread. 

MOCHA ICING 

1 Cup Powdered Sugar !/4 Teaspoon Vanilla 

1 Teaspoon Cocoa About 2 Tablespoons Cold 

2 Tablespoons Butter Coffee (Very Strong) 

Cream butter; add sugar and cocoa gradually; add vanilla, then coffee, gradually 
until mixture is smooth, creamy and thick enough to spread. 

ICING FOR WHITE CAKE 

1'/ 2 Cups Sugar 1 Cup Water 2 Egg Whites 

Boil sugar and water until it threads well; pour over the egg whites, well beaten, 
beating all the time; when partly cool add % cup chopped pineapple. 

41 




W-H-Y Should Not- 



-Prosperity, Health and Happiness go With You 
All Through Life? 

HOW ARE YOU FEELING TODAY? 

Our wish is that you may always be as happy and your prospects as 
bright as on that long-to-be-remembered the happiest day in all your 
life "Your Wedding Day." 
One of the first things to standardize in the home is the table beverage. 



Drink W-H-Y 



not only as a beverage, but consider its food and medicinal values. While 
W-H-Y is the most highly concentrated food known today, it also con- 
tains wonderful medicinal values. 

Every woman should know how to live without pain, how to 
keep that charm, that youthful vigor and beautiful com- 
plexion. 

W-H-Y gives that pink tint to the cheeks, that sparkle to the eye 

which is so much coveted by young and old alike. 

W-H-Y cleans up that pimply, sallow skin and it becomes clean and 

rosy. 

W-H-Y is invigorating and at the same time quieting to the nerves. 

W-H-Y strengthens and builds both body and 
nerves by virtue of its being an Absolutely 
Balanced, Pure Food. 

W-H-Y is not a medicine, but an absolutely 
balanced, scientifically prepared Pure Food, 
which is recommended by Dietitians and Physi- 
cians in complaints such as stomach, bowel, 
liver and kindney trouble, nervousness and 
all complaints peculiar to women. 
Do you suffer pains, cramps, headache, etc., during the menstrual period ? 
W-H-Y removes all suffering at such time. 

W-H-Y may be used in place of coffee. Drink W-H-Y as a coffee 
substitute, as a Food and for its wonderful medicinal values. 

We guarantee W-H-Y to make good every claim or we stand ready to 
refund your money. 

Send today for a FREE bottle of W-H-Y. 

"Health and Happiness in Every Bottle" 
PREPARED BY 

BARTLETT NU PRODUCTS CORPORATION 

^ 
Pasadena, California, U. S. A. 




42 



MEATS 



BROILING 

The rules for roasting meat apply to broiling except that instead of cooking it in 
the oven it is to be quickly browned, first on one side and then on the other, over a 
hot fire, and removed a little from the fire to finish cooking. Meat an inch thick will 
broil in about 4 minutes. Season after it is cooked. 

FRYING 

There are 2 methods of frying: One with very little fat in the pan, to practice 
which successfully the pan and the fat must be hot before the article to be fried is 
put into it. For instance, in frying chops, if the pan is hot, and only fat enough is 
used to keep the chops from sticking to it, the heat being maintained so that the chops 
cook quickly, they will be nearly as nice as if they were broiled. Frying by the other 
method consists in entirely covering the article to be cooked in smoking-hot fat and 
keeping the fat at that degree of heat until the food is brown. It should then be 
taken up with a skimmer and laid upon brown paper for a moment to free it from 
grease. 

BOILING AND STEWING 

Fresh meat for boiling should be put into boiling water and boiled very gently 
about 20 minutes for each pound. A little salt, spice or vegetables may be boiled in 
the water with the meat for seasoning. A little vinegar put in the water with tough 
meats makes it tender. The broth of boiled meat should always be saved to use in 
soups, stews and gravies. Stewing and simmering meats means to place them near 
enough to the fire to keep the water on them bubbling moderately, constantly and 
slowly. Salt meats should be put over the fire in cold water, which, as soon as it 
boils, should be replaced by fresh cold water, the water to be changed until it remains 
fresh enough to give the meat a palatable flavor when done. Salted and smoked 
meats require about 30 minutes very slowly boiling, from the time the water boils, to 
each pound. Vegetables and herbs may be boiled with them to flavor them. When 
they are cooked the vessel containing them should be set where they will keep hot 
without boiling until wanted, if they are to be served hot; if they are to be served 
cold, they should be allowed to cool in the pot liquor in which they were boiled. Very 
salt meats, or those much dried in smoking, should be soaked over night in cold water 
before boiling. 

ROASTING 

Wipe the meat with damp cloth. Trim and tie into shape, if necessary. In the 
bottom of pan put some pieces of fat from meat. Arrange meat on rack in pan. 
Sprinkle with salt, pepper and flour. Have oven very hot at first; when meat is half 
done reduce heat. Baste every 10 or 15 minutes. If there is danger of fat in pan 
being scorched, add a few spoons of boiling water. Allow from 10 to 20 minutes per 
pound of meat, according as it is desired, rare or well done. When done remove to 
hot plate. Thicken gravy in pan with browned flour, adding more water as necessary 
and add seasoning. An onion may be laid on top of the roast to give it flavor, but 
should be removed before serving. 

In purchasing meat one should know how to select the best quality and the most 
useful pieces. 

Beef, which stands at the head of the list, as being most generally used and liked, 
should be of a bright, clear red, and fat white. It should be well clothed in fat, to 
insure it being tender and juicy. The finest pieces are the sirloin and the ribs, the 
latter making the best roasting piece in the animal. 

In cooking steaks remember it is far better to turn over 3 or 4 times on a platter 
containing a little olive oil than it is to hammer them to make them tender. The 
object is not to force out the juice, but to soften the fibre. 

In selecting pork, one cannot exercise too great care in examining it. Do not buy 
any that is clammy or has kernels in the fat. Remember, too, when the rind is hard 
it is old. 

Veal should be fine in grain, of a delicate pink, with plenty of kidney fat. It 
should never be eaten under 2 months old. 

Mutton should be firm and juicy, the flesh close-grained, the fat hard and white. 

43 



CUPID'S BOOK 

TO CLARIFY DRIPPINGS 

Drippings accumulated from different cooked meats (except mutton, which has a 
strong flavor) can be clarified by putting all into a basin and slicing into it raw 
potato, allowing it to boil long enough for the potato to brown, which causes all 
impurities to disappear. Remove from the fire, and when cool drain into basin and 
set in a cool place. 

HINT ON COOKING ROAST BEEF 

For roast beef to be juicy and tender when done, it should be basted every few 
minutes, so in order to save yourself this trouble, place a large piece of beef suet on 
top of the roast; have baking pan perfectly dry and oven very hot; place in the oven 
and let cook the allotted time say Vz hour according to size. You can be about 
your inside work and in the allotted time your roast is done to a beautiful brown and 
is very juicy, as it has been constantly basting itself all the while with the suet. Take 
roast out of pan, pour off drippings in a bowl and make a gravy on top of stove. A 
nice addition to this is to put % dozen or so peeled potatoes on the pan with the 
roast when placing it in to cook, and they will be done to a nicety when the roast is. 
On taking up roast lay baked potatoes around same. 

POT ROAST 

Put a very little drippings in an iron kettle. When hot, lay the beef in. Add an 
onion chopped and fried till brown in butter; pour in water to half height of meat; 
add salt and pepper and cover as close as possible; thicken the gravy; simmer from 
2 to 3 hours, according to weight. When done, take up, and pour the gravy over it 
and serve. 

BRAISED BEEF 

Wipe and trim 6 pounds round or rump of beef without bone; sear brown on all 
sides in very hot frying pan over hot fire. In braising pan or iron kettle put layer 
of sliced onions, turnips and carrots, sweet herbs, 1 teaspoon salt, % teaspoon 
of pepper; on this lay meat, add pint boiling water (or water and stewed tomatoes); 
cover closely and cook 4 hours in moderate oven. If water evaporates rapidly, add 
more. Put meat on hot platter. Strain, thicken and season gravy. The vegetables 
may be served separately if desired. 

BEEFSTEAK PIE FRENCH STYLE 

Take a nice piece of beef rump or sirloin, cut in small slices; slice also a little 
raw ham; put both in a frying pan, with some butter and small quantity chopped 
onions; let them simmer together a short time on the fire or in the oven; add a little 
flour and enough stock to make sauce; salt, pepper, chopped parsley and Worcester- 
shire sauce; add some sliced potatoes, and cook together 20 minutes; put this into a 
pie-dish, with a few slices of hard-boiled eggs on top, and cover with a layer of 
common paste; bake from 15 to 20 minutes in a well-heated oven; all dark-meat pie 
can be treated precisely in the same way. 

CREAMED DRIED BEEF 

Pick in small pieces % pound of thinly-cut, rather moist dried beef and brown in 
a little butter; when brown pour it in a cup of milk; let it come to a boil and slightly 
thicken with a little butter and flour creamed together; when it boils pour it over a 
platter of brown toast and serve it at once. 

BEEF A LA MODE 

Take a piece of meat, cross-rib is best, put a slice of bacon or some lard in the 
bottom of pot, then the meat, and fill up with water till the meat is covered; then 
take 2 onions, some pepper-corns, cloves, bay leaves, 1 carrot and a crust of brown 
bread, salt and some vinegar; put all this in over the beef; keep the pot well covered; 
fill up with more hot water if it boils down, and let it boil 3 hours; then burn a 
tablespoon of flour, with some butter, a nice brown, thin with the gravy and let it 
boil up once more with the meat; then put the beef in a deep dish and strain the gravy 
over it; add more vinegar to taste. Serve with fried potatoes and red cabbage. 

BEEF'S HEART STUFFED 

After washing the heart thoroughly cut it into dice Vz inch long; put into a 
saucepan with water enough to cover; remove scum; when nearly done, add a sliced 
onion, a stalk of celery chopped fine, pepper and salt and a piece of butter; stew 
until the meat is very tender; stir up a tablespoon of flour with a small quantity of 
water and thicken the whole; boil up and serve. 

44 



CUPID'S BOOK 

CORNED BEEF 

Should be cooked in plenty of cold water brought slowly to a boil; if very salt, 
the meat should be soaked over night; but if young and not too strongly brined this 
will not be necessary. It should be cooked long enough to make tender, so that in a 
brisket or plate piece the bones may be readily removed. Preserve the liquor in the 
pot, and if any of the meat remains after the first meal return it and let it stand over 
night in the liquor, so that it may absorb it. If no meat remains to be returned to 
the liquor, the latter will make a good soup for next day's dinner, if the beef was not 
too salt. 

BOILED BEEF TONGUE 

Clean 3 fresh tongues and place in a kettle with just enough water to cover and 
1 cup of salt; add more water, as it evaporates, so as to keep the tongues covered 
until done, when they can be easily pierced with a fork; take out and if to be served 
at once remove the skin. If wanted for future use, do not peel until needed. If salt 
tongues are used, soak over night and omit the salt when boiling. 

HASH 

Take cold pieces of beef that have been left over and chop them fine; then add 
cold boiled potatoes chopped fine; add pepper and salt and a little warm water; put 
all in a frying pan and cook slowly for about 20 minutes. 

TO ROAST A LEG OF PORK 

Choose a small leg of fine young pork; cut a slit in the knuckle with a sharp 
knife and fill the space with sage and onions, chopped, and a little pepper and salt; 
when half done, score the skin in slices, but do not cut deeper than the outer rind. 
Apple sauce should be served with it. 

SALT PORK, CREAM GRAVY, SOUTHERN STYLE 

Cut sweet cured salt pork into %-inch slices; put into saucepan, cover with cold 
water and bring to boiling point; drain off water, add cold water, stand a few min- 
utes; roll in flour 2 parts, cornstarch 1 part, mixed and seasoned with white pepper; 
have 1 tablespoon of hot bacon fat in the frying pan to prevent pork from sticking; 
pour off fat as it melts while frying, brown and fry until reduced one-half. For 1% 
cups cream gravy allow 3 spoons melted fat, add 2 level tablespoons cornstarch; 
cook 3 minutes in the hot fat without browning, then add 1% cups milk, Vs teaspoon 
salt, and cook until smoothly thickened. Serve for breakfast with baked potatoes 
and hot biscuit. 

VEAL LOAF 

Three pounds chopped veal, 1 pound fresh pork chopped fine, 3 well-beaten eggs, 
butter size of an egg, 1 pint of bread crumbs, 1 tablespoon of salt, 1 teaspoon black 
pepper, % teaspoon each of thyme and sage. Make into loaf; take piece of white 
muslin and wrap securely, also the ends; place in a baking pan with very little water; 
baste often; turn so as to brown both sides; leave in cloth until cold. 

VEAL CUTLETS, BREADED 

Trim and flatten the cutlets, add pepper and salt, and roll in beaten egg, then 
in cracker crumbs; fry in good dripping; turn when the lower side is brown; drain 
off the fat, squeeze a little lemon juice upon each and serve in a hot flat dish. 

CALVES LIVER AND BACON 

Cut liver in %-inch slices; soak in cold water 20 minutes; drain, dry and roll in 
flour. Have pan very hot; put in bacon thinly sliced, turn until brown; put on hot 
platter; fry liver quickly in the hot fat, turning very often; when done, pour off all but 
1 or 2 tablespoons fat, dredge in flour until it is absorbed, and stifl till brown; add 
hot water gradually to make smooth gravy, season and boil 1 minute; serve separately. 

FRIED BRAINS 

One nice calf's brain, beaten egg, sifted cracker crumbs, butter, parsley. Soak 
the brain in cold water, then scald for just 1 second; dip it in egg and crumbs 
and fry a light brown on both sides in butter; garnish with parsley and serve hot. 

BROILED MUTTON CHOPS 

Select chops cut from the loin; trim, season with salt and pepper; dip in melted 
butter and broil over a clear fire nearly 10 minutes, turning frequently; lay on 
warm platter and garn"'-* with parsley. 

45 



Cuts of Meat and Their Uses 



Every housekeeper in fact everyone who has marketing to do should know 
something of the cuts of all common meats, and the most desirable way of preparing 
each for the table. In the illustrations below are shown the location of these cuts: 



4. 

5. 
6. 
7. 



10. 



11. 



12. 



TVV\V7T7~> 

4 ' 5 \ *\7 \ 8 * '5 ti \ " 

\ \ \ fU 

5 \ f l f"" ". 18 \ 19 

L- ! *"" 9 I if. \ \ 




BEEF 

1. Head Not used for food. 

2. Sticking Piece. For Soups, Beef 

Tea, Stews, for making Corned 
Beef. 

3. Neck. For Soups, Stews, Beef Tea, 

Boiling and Corned Beef. 



Second and Third Chuck. Brown 
Stews, Braising, Steaks, Pot 
Roasts. 

First Chuck. For Roasts. 

First Cut of Ribs. For Roasts. 

Middle Cut of Ribs. Prime for 
Roasts. 

Back Ribs. For Roasts. 

Stews, Soups, 



Plate (no bones). 
Corned Beef. 



Brisket. Stews, Brown 
Soups, Corning. 



Butt-End Brisket. 
Corning. 

Bolar (no bones). 
Roasts. 



Stews, 
Soups, Stews, 
Corning, Pot 



13. Bony end of Shoulder. For Soups. 

14. Shin. For Soups. 




15. 

16. 
17. 

18. 
19. 

20. 
21. 



Loin (including Tenderloin and 
Sirloin). For Roasts and Steaks. 
(A choice selection.) 

Flank or Skirt. Rolled Steaks, 
Braising, Boiling, Corned Beef. 

Rump. Roasts and Steaks. (This 
should be cut across the grain.) 

Veiny Piece. For Stews and Soups. 

Round. Steaks, Beef Tea, Round 
Steak. 

Leg. Soups and Stews. 
Tail. For Soups. 



22. Pin Bone. For Roasts and Steaks. 
The bones, gristle, tendons and other 
gelatinous portions are good for soup 
stock. 

MUTTON 

Shoulder. For Boiling or Roast. 
Breast. Roast, Stews and Chops. 
Loin. Best end for Roasts, Chops. 
Neck. Best end for Cutlets, Stews, 



Pies. 

Neck. For Stewing Pieces. 
Head. Not used. 
Loin. For Roasts, Chops. 
Leg. For Roasts, Boiling. 



46 



SOUPS 



CONSOMME OR PLAIN MEAT STOCK FOR SOUP 

Consomme or stock forms the basis of all meat soups, gravies and purees. The 
simpler it is made the longer it keeps.. It is best made of fresh, uncooked beef and 
some broken bones, to which may be added the remnants of broken meats. In a 
home where meat forms part of the every-day diet, a good cook will seldom be 
without a stock-pot. 

Four pounds of beef and broken bones, 1 gallon of cold water and 2 teaspoons 
of salt. Put the meat and water on the back of the stove and let it slowly come to a 
boil, then simmer 3 or 4 hours, until the water is boiled away %; add the salt, strain 
and set to cool in an earthenware dish well covered; when cold, take off the fat from 
the top and it is ready for use. To make soup for a family of 6, take % of the stock, 
to which add J /i of boiling water and any vegetable desired; boil 3 hours; season with 
salt and pepper. 

BARLEY BROTH 

Put 12 pounds of shin beef in 1 gallon of water; add a cup of pearl barley, 3 
large onions and a small bunch of parsley minced, 3 potatoes sliced, a little thyme 
and pepper and salt to taste; simmer steadily 3 hours, and stir often, so that the meat 
will not burn. Do not let it boil. Always stir soup broth with a wooden spoon. 

VEGETABLE SOUP WITH STOCK 

Cut 3 onions, 3 turnips, 1 carrot and 4 potatoes; put them into a stewpan with 2 
tablespoons of butter and a teaspoon of powdered sugar; after it has cooked 10 
minutes, add 2 quarts of stock, and when it comes to a boil put aside to simmer 
until the vegetables are tender, about % hour. 

CHICKEN GUMBO SOUP 

Fry 1 chicken; remove the bones; chop fine; place in kettle with 2 quarts of 
boiling water, 3 ears of corn, 6 tomatoes, sliced fine, 24 pods of okra; corn, tomatoes 
and okra to be fried a light brown in the gravy left from frying the chicken; then 
add to the kettle with water and chicken 2 tablespoons of rice, pepper and salt; boil 
slowly 1 hour. 

NOODLES FOR SOUP 

Take 2 eggs, butter the size of a walnut, 3 tablespoons sour cream, sufficient 
flour to make a rather stiff dough; knead, roll out very thin and cut in narrow 
strips; cook % hour or less. 

POTATO SOUP 

To 1 quart of water use 1 onion sliced fine and 10 large potatoes sliced fine; 
boil until tender, about 30 minutes, then add 1 cup milk, 1 tablespoon of flour stirred 
with a lump of butter the size of a walnut and salt and pepper to taste; serve hot. 

MACARONI SOUP ITALIAN STYLE 

Put 4% sticks of macaroni into a saucepan with 1 tablespoon of butter and 1 
onion; boil until the macaroni is tender; when done, drain and pour over it 2 quarts 
of good broth, beef, chicken or other kind; place the pan on the fire to simmer for 
about 10 minutes, watching lest it break or become pulpy; add a little grated 
Parmesan cheese and serve. 

CHICKEN SOUP ' 

Time, 4 hours. Boil 2 chickens with great care, skimming constantly, and keeping 
them covered with water; when tender, take out the chicken and remove every bone 
from the meat; put a large piece of butter into a frying pan and sprinkle the chicken 
meat well with flour; lay in the hot pan; fry a nice brown and keep it hot and dry; 
take a pint of the chicken water and stir in 2 large spoons of curry powder, 2 of 
butter and 1 of flour, 1 teaspoon of salt and a little cayenne; mix it with the broth in 
the pot; when well mixed, simmer 5 minutes, then add the browned chicken; serve 
with rice. 

CLAM CHOWDER 

Twenty-five clams, chopped, not fine, % pound salt pork chopped fine, 6 potatoes 
sliced thin, 4 onions sliced thin. Put pork in kettle; after cooking a short time add 
potatoes, onions and juice of clams; cook 2% hours, then add clams; 15 minutes 
before serving add 2 quarts milk. 

47 

I 
Oakland 3 



CUPID'S BOOK 

CREAM OF TOMATO SOUP 

One can tomatoes (2 pounds), 2 small onions, 1 teaspoon salt, 1 teaspoon sugar, 
% teaspoon soda, % teaspoon pepper, dash of cayenne pepper, small sprig of celery 
or dash of celery salt, 1 cup of milk diluted with equal amount of water. Boil all 
but the milk together for 20 minutes; strain through a colander; add the milk, which 
has first been warned, and then let the mixture come to a boiling point; serve at once. 

CREAM OF CELERY SOUP 

In 5 pints of boiling water cook 3 cups of celery, cut fine, until tender enough to 
be rubbed through a sieve; % pint of milk thickened with 1 tablespoon of butter and 
1 tablespoon of flour; add celery salt or extract, salt and pepper; simmer 10 minutes; 
a cup of scalded milk added just before serving is an addition. 

CLAM BROTH 

Wash thoroughly 6 large clams in shell; put in kettle with 1 cup of water; bring 
to boil and keep there 1 minute; the shells open, the water takes up the proper 
quantity of juice, and the broth is ready to pour off and serve hot. 

OX-TAIL SOUP 

One ox tail, 2 pounds lean beef, 4 carrots, 3 onions, parsley, thyme, pepper and 
salt to taste, 4 quarts cold water. Cut tail into joints, fry brown in good drippings; 
slice onions and 2 carrots and fry in the same, when you have taken out all of the 
pieces of tail; when done tie the thyme and parsley in lace bag and drop into the soup 
pot; put in the tail, then the beef cut into strips; grate over them 2 whole carrots; 
pour over all the water and boil slowly 4 hours; strain and season; thicken with 
brown flour wet with cold water; boil 15 minutes longer and serve. 

TURKEY SOUP 

Place the remains of a cold turkey and what is left of the dressing and gravy 
in pot and cover it with cold water; simmer slowly 4 hours and let stand until the 
next day; take off what fat may have arisen and take out with a skimmer all the bits 
of bones; put the soup on to heat until at boiling point, then thicken slightly with 
flour stirred into a cup of milk and season to taste; pick off all the meat from bones, 
put it back into the soup, boil and serve. 

MUTTON BROTH 

Place in a kettle 3 pounds of a neck of mutton from which the fat has been cut, 
and chopped into small pieces, with 6 pints of water; boil, skim, set the pan to the 
rear of the stove where it can simmer for an hour; add 3 ounces of washed rice, with 
a turnip and some celery; simmer for 2 hours; strain, free from fat and salt. 

BEEF TEA 

Take 2 pounds of lean rump beef, remove all fat, cut into small pieces and place 
in a tightly corked bottle; place the bottle in a deep saucepan of cold water, reaching 
two-thirds of the way to the top of the bottle; place over a slow fire and keep it 
boiling slowly for 15 minutes; take out the bottle, pour out the liquor and use as 
required. 




48 



EGGS 



HAM AND EGGS 

Fry the ham quickly; remove from the pan as soon as done; drop the eggs one 
at a time, into the hot fat; be careful not to let the yolks break and run, and keep the 
eggs as much separated as possible, to preserve their shape. The ham should be cut 
in pieces the right size to serve and, when the eggs are done, one should be laid on 
each piece of ham. ' If any eggs remain, they can be placed uniformly on the edge of 
the platter. 

OMELET SOUFFLE 

Take 3 eggs, 2 ounces of butter, 1 dessertspoon of chopped parsley, 1 saltspoon 
of chopped onions, 1 pinch of dried herbs. Beat the whites of the eggs to a very stiff 
froth; mix the yolks with the parsley and a little salt and pepper; stir the herbs gently 
into them and continue as in a plain omelet; fold the omelet and serve immediately. 

OMELET 

Six eggs, whites and yolks, beaten separately; ^3 pint milk, teaspoon cornstarch, 
1 teaspoon baking powder and a little salt; the whites, beaten to a stiff froth, last; 
cook in a little butter. 

SPANISH OMELET 

Chop 2 large onions fine, let brown; add garlic to taste or, about 2 buttons; Vz 
can tomatoes, dash red pepper, 2 or 3 small chilis, salt to taste; cook all well done. 
Beat 6 eggs thoroughly and pour over; let brown and fold. 

SCRAMBLED EGGS 

Beat 3 eggs slightly, add ^4 cup milk or water and sprinkle with pepper; cook in 
hot buttered frying pan, using 1 teaspoon butter, stirring constantly until thick; 
serve hot. 

OMELET AU NATURAL 

Break 8 or 10 eggs into a basin; add a little salt and pepper, with a tablespoon of 
water; beat the whole well with a spoon or whisk; in the meantime put some fresh 
butter into an omelet pan, and when it is nearly hot, put in an omelet; while it is 
frying, with a skimmer spoon raise the edge from the pan that it may be properly 
done; when the eggs are set and one side is a fine brown, double it half over and 
serve hot. These omelets should be put quite thin in the pan; the butter required 
for each will be about the size of a small egg. 

EGGS A LA MODE 

Remove skin from 10 tomatoes, medium size; cut in a saucepan; add butter, 
pepper and salt; when sufficiently boiled beat up 5 or 6 eggs and just before you serve 
turn them into the saucepan with the tomatoes and stir them 1 way for 2 minutes, 
allowing time to be well cooked. 

BUTTERED EGGS 

Melt 1 tablespoon butter, slip in an egg and cook until the white is firm; turn 
over once while cooking, and use just enough butter to keep it from sticking. 

BREAD OMELET 

Soak 2 tablespoons bread crumbs in 2 tablespoons milk for 15 minutes; add pinch 
each salt and pepper; separate egg yolk and white, beat until light; add yolk to bread 
and milk and cut in the white; turn in the heated buttered pan, using % teaspoon 
butter, and cook until set; fold and turn on heated dish. 

FRIED EGGS 

Fried eggs are cooked as buttered eggs without being turned. They are usually 
fried with bacon fat, which is taken by spoons and poured over the eggs. Do not 
have the fat too hot, as that will give the egg a hard, indigestible crust. 

EGGS AND BACON 

Cut 8 slices of bacon very thin and fry until crisp; take them out and keep hot 
in the oven; break 4 eggs separately into the boiling fat and fry until brown; serve 
with the eggs laid over the bacon, and small fried pieces of bread placed around. 
Hash may be used instead of bacon. 

49 



CUPID'S BOOK 

POACHED EGGS 

Have the water boiling and the toast moistened in a little salt water and buttered; 
break the eggs, one by one, carefully into the water; let them boil till the white sets; 
remove with an egg slice; pare off the ragged edges and lay each egg upon a slice of 
toast; put over bits of butter, salt and pepper. Eggs require to be quite fresh to 
poach nicely. 

EGGS A LA CARACAS 

Chop finely 2 ounces smoked dried beef freed from fat and outside skin; add 1 
cup tomatoes, ^4 cup grated cheese, a few drops of onion juice and a few grains each 
of cinnamon and cayenne; melt 2 tablespoons butter; add mixture, and when 
heated add 3 eggs slightly beaten; cook until a creamy consistency, stirring con- 
tinually and scraping from bottom of pan. 

CURRIED EGGS 

Boil 8 eggs hard and cut into thick slices; cook together in a saucepan a table- 
spoon of curry powder; stir until smooth, then add a large cup of skimmed soup 
stock and cook, stirring all the time, to a smooth paste; if too thick, add more stock; 
when smooth and of the consistency of cream, add salt and pepper to taste and lay 
into the sauce the sliced eggs, sprinkled lightly with salt; cook until very hot. 

EGGS AND TOMATOES 

Scrambled eggs with tomatoes make an appetizing luncheon dish. Take 2 good- 
sized tomatoes, peel, cut them in pieces and fry them in a little hot olive oil; when 
cooked drain off the liquid and take 4 eggs, well beaten; add some milk and scramble; 
mix the tomatoes with the eggs, seasoning with salt and pepper to taste. Serve on 
thin slices of toast. 

EGGS AND SPAGHETTI 

Take spaghetti and cook it with a cup of grated .cheese. When the spaghetti and 
cheese are cooked, add slices of hard-boiled eggs. Serve in a bowl garnished with 
pieces of soft toast. 

Among many other excellent dishes made with this paste are fried chicken with 
spaghetti and tomato jelly and macaroni au gratin in an Edam cheese case. 

EGGS IN BAKED POTATOES 

Six eggs; 6 potatoes, 6 tablespoons grated cheese, 6 tablespoons butter. Bake the 
potatoes; cut off the top and remove Vz of the inside of potato; in its place drop an 
egg raw; salt, cayenne pepper, 1 teaspoon cheese in each and 1 teaspoon butter; put 
back into a hot oven for 4 minutes. 



Important! 



You will not be disappointed in the recipes of this book if you 
get your Eggs and Butter from the R. E. BIGGS STORES, as 
they are always fresh and the very best and sold on a Money 
Back Guarantee. 

Read the Advertisement on page 18 



50 



POULTRY and GAME 



HOW TO SELECT POULTRY 

In selecting poultry full-grown fowls have the best flavor, provided they are 
young. The age may be determined by turning the wing backward; if it yields it is 
tender. The same is true if the skin on the leg is readily broken. Older poultry 
makes the best soup. The intestines should be removed at once, but frequently in 
shipping they are left in and hence, when removed, the fowl needs washing in several 
waters. The next to the last water should contain % teaspoon of baking soda, 
which sweetens and renders all more wholesome. The giblets are the gizzard, heart, 
liver and neck. 

ROAST TURKEY 

Carefully pluck the bird and singe off the down with lighted paper; break the leg 
bone close to the foot, hang up the bird and draw out the strings of the thigh. 
Never cut the breast; make a small slit down the back of the neck and take out the 
crop that way, then cut the neck bone close, and after the bird is stuffed the skin 
can be turned over the back and the crop will look full and round. Cut around the 
vent, making the hole as small as possible, and draw carefully, taking care that the 
gall bag and the intestines joining the gizzard are not broken. Open the gizzard, 
take out the contents and detach the liver from the gall bladder. The liver, gizzard 
and heart, if used in the gravy, should be boiled 1% hours and chopped as fine as 
possible. Wash the turkey and wipe thoroughly dry, inside and out; then fill the 
inside with stuffing, and sew the skin of the neck over the back. Sew up the opening 
at the vent, then run a long skewer into the pinion and thigh through the body, 
passing it through the opposite pinion and thigh. Put a skewer in the small part of 
the leg, close on the outside, and push it through. Pass a string over the points of 
the skewers and tie it securely at the back. 

Sprinkle well with flour, cover the breast with nicely-buttered white paper, place 
on a grating in the dripping pan and put in the oven to roast. Baste every 15 min- 
utes, a few times with butter and water, and then with the gravy in the dripping pan. 
Do not have too hot an oven. A turkey weighing 10 pounds will require 3 hours to 
bake. 

ROAST GOOSE. 

Get a goose that is not more than 8 months old, and the fatter it is the more 
juicy the meat. The dressing should be made of 3 pints of bread crumbs, 6 ounces of 
butter, a teaspoon each of sage, black pepper and salt and chopped onions. Don't 
stuff very full, but sew very closely, so that the fat will not get in. Place in a baking 
pan with a little water and baste often with a little salt, water and vinegar. Turn the 
goose frequently so that it may be evenly browned. Bake about 2% hours. When 
done, take it from the pan, drain off the fat and add the chopped giblets, which have 
previously been boiled tender, together with the water in which they were done. 
Thicken with flour and butter rubbed together; let boil, and serve. 

BAKED CHICKEN 

Take a plump chicken, dress and lay in cold salt water for % hour; put in pan, 
stuff and sprinkle with salt and pepper; lay a few slices of fat pork over; cover and 
bake until tender, with a steady fire; baste often; turn so as to have uniform heat. 

BOILED CHICKEN 

Clean, wash and stuff as for roasting. Baste a floured cloth around each and 
put into a pot with enough boiling water to cover them well. The hot water cooks 
the skin at once and prevents the escape of the juices. The broth will not be so rich 
as if the fowls were put on in cold water, but this is proof that the meat will be more 
nutritious and better flavored. Stew very slowly, for the first half hour especially. 
Boil an hour or more, guiding yourself by size and toughness. Serve with egg or 
bread sauce. 

FRIED SPRING CHICKEN 

Clean and disjoint, then soak in salt water for about 2 hours; put in frying pan 
equal parts of lard and butter, enough to cover chicken; roll each piece in flour, dip 
in beaten egg, then roll in cracker crumbs and drop into boiling fat; fry until 
browned on both sides; serve on flat platter garnished with sprigs of parsley; pour 
most of the fat from frying pan; thicken remainder with browned flour, add to it 1 
cup of boiling milk; serve in gravy bowl. 

51 



CUPID'S BOOK 

CHICKEN FRICASSEE 

Clean and disjoint chicken; wipe each piece; put in pot, cover with boiling water 
and simmer till tender; to the liquor add % cup or more hot diluted milk, thicken 
with flour dissolved in cold water; season well; boil up for a few minutes; serve 
with dumplings or biscuit. FRIED CHICKEN 

A chicken for frying should be very young, but if there are doubts as to its age, 
before cutting it up parboil it for 10 minutes in water that has been slightly salted. 
Sprinkle with salt and pepper and roll them in flour; fry in plenty of butter till done. 
It takes 20 minutes to fry them. Put the chicken on a platter, make a gravy by 
turning off some of the fat and adding % cup of milk and % cup water that has been 
thickened with 1 tablespoon of flour; pour this gravy over it; or the gravy can be 
omitted and the platter can be garnished with crisp lettuce leaves. 

CHICKEN CROQUETTES 

Cut up fine any kind of fowl, season with salt, pepper and butter, a little onion; 
stir in 2 fresh eggs; make in cakes, dip in beaten egg, then in cracker crumbs and 
fry in boiling lard or lard and butter mixed. 

CHICKEN POT PIE 

Two large chickens disjointed and boiled in 2 quarts water; add a few slices salt 
pork; season; when nearly cooked, add crust made of 1 quart flour, 4 teaspoons 
baking powder, 1 teaspoon salt; stir in stiff batter with water; drop into kettle while 
boiling; cover close and cook 25 minutes. 

CHICKEN SOUTHERN STYLE 

Wash your chicken thoroughly in soda and water; dry and disjoint; put 1% cups 
of cold water in a porcelain pot (Dutch oven preferred); pack chicken in closely; 
mince 2 small onions, 1 kernel garlic, little parsley and sprinkle over chicken; cover 
closely and let simmer for 3 hours; J /4 hour before done season with salt and pepper. 
Don't lift cover during the cooking. When done remove chicken and thicken gravy 
with a little flour. WILD DUCKS 

Nearly all wild ducks are liable to have a fishy flavor, and when handled by 
inexperienced cooks, are sometimes uneatable from this cause. Before roasting them 
guard against this by parboiling them with a small carrot, peeled, put within each. 
This will absorb the unpleasant taste. An onion will have the same effect; but 
unless you mean to use*onion in the stuffing, the carrot is ^referable. 

ROAST WILD DUCKS 

Parboil as above directed; throw away the carrot or onion; lay in fresh water % 
hour; stuff with bread crumbs, season with pepper, sage, salt and onion; roast until 
brown, basting for half the time with butter and water, then with drippings; add to 
the gravy, when you have taken up the ducks, a teaspoon of currant jelly and a pinch 
of cayenne pepper; thicken with browned flour and serve in a tureen. 

RABBIT PIE 

Cut a rabbit into 7 pieces, soak in salted water Vz hour and stew until half done 
in enough water to cover it; lay slices of pork in the bottom of a pie dish and upon 
these a layer of rabbit; then follow slices of hard-boiled egg, peppered and buttered; 
continue until the dish is full, the top layer being bacon; pour in the water in which 
the rabbit was stewed, and adding a little flour, cover with puff paste; cut a slit in 
the middle and bake 1 hour, laying paper over the top should it brown too fast. 

ROAST TAME DUCK 

Take a young farmyard duck fattened at liberty, but cleansed by being shut 
up 2 or 3 days and fed barley meal and water. Pluck, singe and empty; scald the 
feet, skin and twist around on back of bird; head, neck and pinions must be cut off, 
the latter at first joint, and all skewered firmly to give the breast a nice plump 
appearance. For stuffing, 1 large onion, 1 teaspoon of powdered sage, 3 tablespoons 
of bread crumbs, the liver of a duck parboiled and minced with cayenne pepper and 
salt; cut fine onions, throwing boiling water over them for 10 minutes; drain through 
a gravy strainer, and add the bread crumbs, minced liver, sage, pepper and salt to 
taste; mix and put inside the duck. This amount is for 1 duck; more onion and 
more sage may be added, but the above is a delicate compound. Let the duck be 
hung a day or two, according to the weather, to make the flesh tender. Roast before 
a brisk, clear fire; baste often, and dredge with flour to make the bird look frothy; 
serve with a good brown gravy in the dish, and apple sauce in a tureen. It takes 
about an hour. 

52 



SAUCES 



WHITE SAUCE 

2 Cups Milk 2 Tablespoons Butter 

2 Tablespoons Cornstarch Salt and Pepper to Taste 

Rub the butter and cornstarch together and add the cold milk. Place over a 
moderate fire and stir constantly till it boils; cook thoroughly. This sauce may be 
used for vegetables. For fish, add hard-boiled eggs, either chopped or sliced. 

CAPER SAUCE 

2 Tablespoons Butter 1 Teaspoon Vinegar 

2 Tablespoons Flour 3 Tablespoons Capers 

1 Tablespoon Cornstarch Salt and Pepper to Taste 

2 Cups Milk 

Rub butter, flour and cornstarch to a paste. Add the milk and stir over moderate 
fire till it thickens. Add vinegar, capers and seasoning. Serve with lamb or mutton. 

VELVET SAUCE 

4 Tablespoons Butter !/ 2 Cup Mushroom Liquor 

1'/2 Tablespoons Flour 6 Whole Peppers 
2 Tablespoons Cornstarch Salt and Dash of Nutmeg 

1 Quart Chicken or Veal Stock 

Combine as directed in white sauce, using stock in place of milk. Boil 20 minutes. 
Skim and simmer for 1 hour. Strain and season if necessary. Add a few drops of 
kitchen bouquet. 

TOMATO SAUCE 
1 Pint Tomatoes 1'/2 Tablespoons Cornstarch 

1 Large Slice Onion Salt and Pepper to Taste 

2 Tablespoons Butter 

Directions: Put the onion and bay leaf into the tomatoes and simmer gently 20 
minutes. Rub through a strainer and add to the butter and cornstarch previously 
rubbed together. Stir over a moderate fire till it boils and season to taste. Cook 
thoroughly. 

LOBSTER SAUCE 

1 Lobster 1 Pint Boiling Water 

1'/2 Tablespoons Cornstarch Lemon Juice 

1/5 Teaspoon Cayenne Pepper 

Directions: Cut the lobster into dice; rub the "coral" to a paste with part of the 
butter. Make a sauce of the cornstarch, rest of butter and water; add the coral and 
season to taste with lemon juice and salt; simmer 5 minutes and strain over the diced 
lobster. Boil up once and serve. 

PARSLEY SAUCE 

Make a white sauce and add chopped parsley and a little lemon juice. Serve 
with fish. 

POULETTE SAUCE 

Add a cup of cream and the yolks of 2 eggs beaten together until they are light 
to cream sauce and a little paprika. 

NEWBURG SAUCE 

Make Poulette Sauce. As soon as you have removed it from the fire add a few 
tablespoons of white grape juice and dash vinegar. 

CREAMED CHICKEN GRAVY 

Pour desired amount of milk into pan where chicken has been fried. Season with 
butter, salt and pepper, and thicken with cornstarch rubbed smooth with a little 
cold milk. 

ROAST BEEF SAUCE 

Remove roast from pan and pour off all the fat except one good tablespoon. Add 
one tablespoon of cornstarch. Put over the fire and cook, stirring constantly till 
well browned. Add gradually, stirring all the time, 1 pint of boiling water, and cook 
till thick and smooth. All brown gravies may be made from this recipe. 

HORSERADISH SAUCE 

A good-sized stick of horseradish is required, which should be grated into a bowl 
and a teaspoon of mustard, a little salt, % pint of cream and vinegar to taste added. 
Stir all well together. 

53 



STUFFINGS 



CHESTNUT STUFFING FOR POULTRY 

One pint fine bread crumbs, 1 pint shelled and boiled French chestnuts chopped 
fine, salt, pepper and chopped parsley to season, V% cup melted butter. 

OYSTER STUFFING FOR POULTRY 

Substitute small raw oysters, picked and washed, for chestnuts in above recipe. 

CELERY STUFFING 
Substitute finely-cut celery for chestnuts. 

STUFFING FOR TOMATOES, GREEN PEPPERS, ETC. 

One cup dry bread crumbs, J/5 teaspoon salt, V teaspoon pepper, 1 teaspoon 
onion juice, 1 tablespoon chopped parsley, 2 tablespoons melted butter. Hominy, rice 
or other cooked cereal may take the place of crumbs. 

LAMB AND VEAL STUFFING 

Three cups stale bread crumbs, 3 onions chopped fine, 1 teaspoon salt, Vn tea- 
spoon white pepper, 2 tablespoons chopped parsley, Vz cup melted butter or suet. 

STUFFING FOR PORK 

Three large onions parboiled and chopped, 2 cups fine bread crumbs, 2 tablespoons 
powdered sage, 2 tablespoons melted butter, or pork fat, salt and pepper to taste. 

SAGE STUFFING FOR GEESE AND DUCKS 

Two chopped onions, 2 cups mashed potatoes, 1 cup bread crumbs, salt, pepper 
and powdered sage to taste. 

POULTRY STUFFING 

One quart stale bread crumbs, salt, pepper and powdered thyme to season highly, 
% cup melted butter. 

BREAD STUFFING FOR MEAT OR POULTRY 

Soak 1 quart stale bread (in pieces) in cold water and squeeze dry; season with 
1 teaspoon salt, % teaspoon pepper, 1 teaspoon ginger, % teaspoon poultry seasoning 
and % teaspoon onjon; add 2 tablespoons fat drippings, melted; mix thoroughly; add 
an egg, slightly beaten; add heart, liver and tender parts of gizzard chopped fine and 
partially boiled. 

TURKEY STUFFING ST. JAMES 

Chop together the liver of the turkey and 1 small onion; stir these in a saucepan 
over the fire, but do not brown, for about '10 minutes; then mix the contents into a 
pound of sausage meat; when thoroughly mixed, add about 2 dozen whole chestnuts 
which have been shelled, blanched and cooked until tender in boiling, salted water. 

DUMPLINGS FOR STEWS 

One and one-half cups flour, 3 teaspoons baking powder, 2 tablespoons butter, 
cut through with a fork, % teaspoon salt and enough milk to make soft dough; drop 
small spoons into boiling stew; water just to the top of the meat; cover tightly and 
let boil slowly undisturbed for 15 minutes. Do not place dumplings on top of each 
other. 



Start Right by using 

CLOROX 

an essential in the household 



54 




Andrew J. Bloom, Ph. D. 

HEALER, LECTURER, TEACHER, 
ARTIST AND PIANIST 

Authorized by Christian Philosophical Institute 

643 16th St., Oakland, Calif. 
Phone Oakland 9147 

Correspondence Course and Ph.D. Classes 
Taught. Private treatment per month, 
$10.00. Personal calls at residence, $3.00. 
Out of town calls, charge according to 
distance. 

Prosperity treatments in group, $1.00 per 

month. Hours, 9 A. M. to 5 P. M. or 

by appointment 



In connection with our healing department, we also have a 
large stock of White China and Statsuma. Finest stock of 
vitrifiable colors and lustres in America in any quantity. 
Hand Painted China, wholesale and retail. Foreign Stamps, 
Parchment Shades, etc. Firing. Designs furnished to order. 

Thursday Evening 8 o'clock 
LECTURE AND FREE HEALING MEETING 

Pacific Building (Ground Floor) 
Sixteenth and Jefferson Streets, Oakland 

Nature's Way, all Unity publications, Impersonal Life and a full line of 
Metaphysical and Occult books. Fine slock of Motto Cards 




55 



SALADS 



IDEAS IN SALADS 

Prepare celery stalks very carefully by removing the stringy fiber until entirely 
free from shreds; chop quite fine, and to 2 cups of celery add 2 cups of chopped 
lettuce, the latter crisp and fresh as possible; season with salt, pepper and thyme, 
vinegar, olive oil, bay leaf; if possible, add ^ teaspoon shoyu, or Japanese sauce, 
which greatly improves the flavor; mix all thoroughly and then add crab, shrimp, 
sardine, spiced mackerel or halibut filling. Boiled halibut, chilled in salt water, 
makes a good combination with crab, and when broken into small portions and 
allowed to stand for 1 hour or so, in the same salt water with crab, can with difficulty 
be distinguished from the crab itself. For sardine, potato and meat salads, a table- 
spoon of onion juice is desirable. 

Make mayonnaise dressing by using the yolks of 3 or 4 eggs, according to the 
quantity desired, and after beating add, drop by drop, pure olive oil, stirring con- 
stantly until the mixture begins to thicken; then a larger quantity of oil may be 
stirred in until the mixture becomes of proper consistency, about like heavy cream; 
do not season until thickened for fear of curdling. Salt very sparingly, and if desired 
sift in a little cayenne pepper, a few drops of lemon, 2 teaspoons of spiced mustard 
vinegar from mustard pickles. 

CHICKEN SALAD 

Cut cold roast or boiled chicken in small dice; add celery cut fine; season with 
salt and pepper; mix with French dressing and put aside for an hour or more; just 
before serving stir in some mayonnaise slightly thinned with lemon juice or French 
dressing; arrange on lettuce leaves and cover with thick mayonnaise. 

CRAB SALAD 

One pint of crab meat, 2 stalks of celery, cut fine, 1 hard-boiled egg, chopped 
fine, and 1 tomato cut into small pieces; season with salt, pepper and vinegar; mix 
in salad bowl, garnishing it with crisp leaves of lettuce; dress with mayonnaise 
dressing. 

EGG SALAD 

Cut hard-boiled eggs in half lengths, rub their yolks through a sieve, mix with 
equal weight of Parmesan cheese, season with chopped chives, pepper and salt, and 
enough butter to moisten; fill the whites with this mixture, serve on lettuce and 
garnish with sliced tomatoes. 

HOT SLAW 

Pick off the bad leaves from head of small cabbage; slice or cut the cabbage very 
thin; scald it 5 minutes in 2 quarts of boiling water and drain through a colander; 
mix it well with a sauce made of V cup of hot vinegar, 1 cup of sour cream, yolks of 
2 eggs, 3 tablespoons of oil, salt and pepper to taste. 

COLD SLAW 

Chop or shred a small white cabbage; prepare a dressing in the proportion of 1 
tablespoon of oil to 4 of vinegar, 1 teaspoon mustard, salt and sugar and pepper; pour 
over the salad, adding, if you choose, 3 tablespoons of minced celery; toss up well 
and put in a glass bowl. 

POTATO SALAD 

Four large potatoes, % a small onion, a little celery, chopped fine. If the potatoes 
have been boiled in their skin they are better. The dressing consists of 1 cup of 
cream, 1 tablespoon of cornstarch, 1 egg, 2 tablespoons of butter, 3 tablespoons of 
vinegar, % teaspoon of mustard, 1 of sugar, salt and pepper to taste. 
CRAB MEAT A LA NEWBURG 

Clean and pick 2 nice large fresh crabs; place in a saucepan about 1 ounce of 
butter; when melted, add the picked crab meat; season with % pinch of cayenne 
pepper, 2 pinches of salt; let simmer slowly for 2 minutes, then add cream to just 
cover it; let come to a boil; place 3 yolks of eggs in a bowl with Ys cup milk; beat 
well together and add it to the crab; stir gently for a few minutes till it thickens, 
but do not boil; serve in a hot casserole or tureen. Serve thin slices of freshly-made 
hot toast on the side. 

Same recipe for shrimp or lobster a la Newburg. 

56 



CUPID'S BOOK 



FRENCH DRESSING 

Mix % teaspoon of salt, dash of white pepper, 3 tablespoons olive oil; stir for 
few minutes, then gradually add 1 tablespoon vinegar, stirring rapidly until mixture 
is slightly thickened and vinegar cannot be noticed. Mixture will separate in about 
20 minutes. 

LOBSTER SALAD 

Cut the lobster into small squares and season with 2 tablespoons of vinegar, 2 of 
oil, salt and pepper to taste and let it stand in a cool place for an hour; when ready 
to serve line the salad bowl with crisp lettuce leaves, and after mixing the lobster 
thoroughly with mayonnaise place it on the lettuce; serve with toasted crackers and 
cheese. 

MAYONNAISE DRESSING 

Put the yolk of 1 egg into 1 cup with salt-spoon of salt and beat until light, % 
teaspoon of mustard and beat again; then add olive oil, drop by drop, then a few 
drops of vinegar and the same of lemon juice; continue this process until the egg has 
absorbed a little more than % a teacup of oil; finish by adding a very little cayenne 
pepper and sugar. 

FRUIT SALAD 

Mix % cup chopped walnuts, 2 apples, sliced thin, % cup chopped celery and 
lettuce leaves and serve with cooked salad dressing. 

NUT SALAD 

Take equal portions of English walnut, hickorynut and pecan meats; add twice 
as much chopped celery as nut meats; pour over all a good salad dressing and 
serve at once on lettuce leaves. 

THREE-MINUTE MAYONNAISE 

Mix % teaspoon salt, pinch cayenne or paprika and Vs teaspoon mustard in a 
bowl; add 2 teaspoons lemon juice or vinegar and carefully put in 1 whole egg and 1 
egg yolk so as not to break yolk; pour in % cup salad oil and beat with an egg beater 
until blended; continue until the oil is all added. 



DIAMONDS 

JEWELRY 
AND 



/ 



SILVERWARE 




Gifts that are always welcome. Handed 
down from one generation to another 
and are everlasting. 



A. F. EDWARDS 

1227-29 Broadway 



Oakland's Jeweler 
Since 1879 



Forty-five Years 



57 



For the Young Bride 



Start her out right by buy- 
ing a SPARK LIDTOP 
RANGE for her convenience 
and comfort. This will teach 
her true economy, as she can 
cook a whole meal with the 
aid of one burner. Ask 
about this feature. 



ALL QUALITY STOVES AND RANGES 




The SPARK LIDTOP RANGE will make her cooking hours easier. The 
smooth, flat top prevents vessels from tipping accommodates six pans 
and is as easily cleaned as a dish. The kitchen heater and warming 
oven are two extra big features which will win the young bride's favor. 

Sold in Oakland by 

JACKSON FURNITURE CO., 14th and Clay 
M. STULSAFT CO., 339 13th Street 



58 



FISH AND SHELL FISH 



TO FRY FISH 

After the fish is well cleansed, lay it on a folded towel and dry out all the water; 
when well wiped and dry, roll it in wheat flour, rolled crackers, grated stale bread or 
cornmeal, whichever may be preferred; have a thick-bottomed frying pan with plenty 
of sweet lard salted (a tablespoon of salt to each pound of lard) for fresh fish which 
have not been previously salted; let it become boiling hot, then lay the fish in it fry 
gently until one side is a fine, delicate brown, then turn the other; when both are 
done take it up carefully and serve quickly, or keep it covered with a tin cover, and 
set the dish where it will keep hot. 

TO BROIL FISH 

Rub the bars of your gridiron with dripping or a piece of beef suet to prevent the 
fish from sticking. Put a good piece of butter into a dish, enough salt and pepper to 
season the fish; lay the fish on it when it is broiled, and with a knife put the butter 
over every part; serve very hot. 

TO BAKE FISH WHOLE 

Cut off the head and split the fish down nearly to the tail; prepare a dressing 
of bread, butter, pepper and salt; moisten with a little water; fill the dish with this 
dressing and bind it together with a piece of string; lay the fish on a bake-pan and 
pour round it a little water and melted butter; baste frequently. A good-sized fish 
will bake in an hour. Serve with the gravy of the fish, drawn butter. 

BROILED SALT MACKEREL 

Freshen by soaking it over night in water, being careful that the skin lies upper- 
most; in the morning dry it without breaking; cut off the head and tip of the tail; 
place it between the bars of a buttered fish-gridiron and broil to a light brown; lay it 
on a hot dish, and dress with a little butter, pepper and lemon juice and vinegar. 

CODFISH BALLS 

Put fish in cold water, set on back of stove; when water gets hot, pour off and 
put cold on again until fish is sufficiently fresh; then pick it up; boil potatoes and 
mash them; mix fish and potatoes together, while potatoes are hot, taking 2/3 pota- 
toes and 1/3 fish; put in plenty of butter; make into balls and fry in plenty of lard; 
have lard hot before putting in balls. Variation may be had by rolling each ball in 
beaten egg, then in dry bread crumbs before frying. 

BOILED SALMON 

Sew as many pounds as desired up in a cheese-cloth bag and boil for 15 minutes 
to the pound, in slightly salted water. When done, take out and lay upon a dish, 
being careful not to break the fish. 

CREAM SAUCE 

Prepare a small cup of cream sauce, in which has been stirred a teaspoon of 
minced parsley and the juice of % of a lemon. Pour over the salmon and serve. 
Garnish with parsley. The choicest portion of the salmon is that at the center and 
toward the tail. 

CREAMED FISH 

Pick (not shred) 1 cup of codfish; place in a spider and fill and cover with cold 
water; stir a moment over the fire and pour off the water; stand on the stove; coyer 
the fish with 1% pints of milk, also a large tablespoon of butter; stir into 1 cup milk 
2 tablespoons of flour and when the milk on the stove is about to boil mix this with 
it; when the mixture has thickened stand where it will boil no longer and stir into it 
1 egg. Serve at once. 

FISH BALLS 

The remnants of any cold fish can be used by breaking the fish to pieces with a 
fork, removing all the bones and skin and shredding very fine; add an equal quantity 
of mashed potatoes; make into a stiff batter with a piece of butter and some milk 
and a beaten egg; flour your hands and shape the mixture into balls; fry in boiling 
lard or drippings to a light brown. 

CHAFING DISH RECIPE 

Skin the fish and lay on brown paper for a few minutes; then dip in beaten egg 
and roll in finely powdered cracker crumbs; place butter in a chafing dish so that 

59 



CUPID'S BOOK 

when melted it will cover bottom of the dish to the depth of % of an inch; when 
hot, place the sardines in and cook until nicely browned, being careful not to let them 
burn. Serve on a lettuce leaf with mayonnaise dressing. 

FRIED OYSTERS 

Twenty-four large oysters, 1 teaspoon salt, % teaspoon pepper, y> cup bread 
crumbs, 1 egg. Clean and drain select oysters; roll in bread crumbs, seasoned with 
salt and pepper; let stand 15 minutes or more, then dip in beaten egg, roll in crumbs 
again, let stand again 15 minutes or more in a cool place, and fry 1 minute or until 
golden brown in deep fat; drain on paper; serve on hot platter and garnish with 
parsley, sliced pickle or lemon. Serve with French fried potatoes. 

Fancy Fry for Bride and Groom 

Fry 1 dozen Eastern oysters; beat 4 eggs, put in pan with oysters and cook 
together; serve on buttered toast. 

Fancy Roast 

Cook 12 Eastern oysters in their own juice; add butter, pepper, salt and Vz tea- 
cup of catsup; let it come to a boil; serve in hot dish on buttered toast. 

Pepper Roast 

Follow recipe for Fancy Roast, adding to it a tablespoon of green peppers, 
chopped very fine. 

Hangtown Fry 
Spread flat omelette with thin broiled bacon; cover with fried oysters. 

ESCALLOPED OYSTERS 

Dip oysters in cornmeal; put back in shell, pour a little drawn butter over them 
and lay a small strip of bacon on top of each oyster; bake 3 minutes and serve 
in shell. 

DEVILED CRAB 

One cup crab meat, picked from shells of well-boiled crabs; 2 tablespoons fine 
bread crumbs or rolled crackers, yolk 2 hard-boiled eggs, chopped, juice of a lemon, 
% teaspoon mustard, a little cayenne pepper and salt, 1 cup good drawn butter; fill 
scallop shells large clam shell will do with mixture; sift crumbs over top, heat to 
slight brown in quick oven. 

CREAMED CRAB 

Melt Vz inch slice of butter, add % cup flour; stir all the time; to this add 4 cups 
of milk; season with salt, red pepper and 1 tablespoon Worcestershire sauce; cook 
10 minutes; add the picked meat of 3 crabs and a small bottle of mushrooms; let it 
come to a boil once. Serve in ramikins. 

LOBSTER A LA LOUIE (For Eight Persons) 

Select a choice lobster or 2, about 4 pounds in all; but it lengthwise, clean and 
wash, dry it well in a towel; then cut into % slices and put in cool place; prepare 3 
heads of lettuce (the harder the better); remove the loose leaves and keep for 
garnishing; then shred up the solid heads, dip in water and take out right away and 
drain. 

Louie Dressing 

Six green spring onions, chopped very fine; the same amount of very tender 
celery, chopped very fine; twice the amount of green peppers, chopped very fine; 
% teaspoon of paprika, 1 cup of mayonnaise, 1 cup Chili sauce, 1 cup tomato catsup, 
2 teaspoons Worcestershire sauce, salt to taste; mix well; arrange the lettuce leaves 
on a large platter, lay the shredded lettuce in the center and arrange the sliced 
lobster upon it; garnish with a little mayonnaise, paprika and boiled eggs, quartered, 
olives, pickles and the legs of the lobster; serve the dressing on a side dish and 
serve as cold as possible. 

Same recipe for Crab and Shrimp a la Louie. 

LOBSTER PATTIES 

Cut into small pieces tail part, 2 boiled lobsters; season well with pepper, salt 
and a little lemon juice; dissolve 2 tablespoons cornstarch in a little cold milk and 
turn into 1 pint of boiling milk; after it has thickened add butter and cook until quite 
thick; stir lobster into this mixture and heat through; fill patty shells which have 
been heated. 

60 



VEGETABLES 



HINTS ON COOKING AND SERVING 

Vegetables should be boiled in soft water, if obtainable. The water should only 
be allowed to come to a boil before putting in the vegetables. It is best to boil 
vegetables by themselves and to boil quickly. When done, take them up immediately 
and drain. 

In cooking all vegetables, a teaspoon of salt for each 2 quarts of water is allowed. 
Most vegetables are eaten dressed with salt, pepper and butter, but sometimes a 
piece of lean pork is broiled with them, which seasons them sufficiently. 

In stewing or boiling, always add vegetables to boiling water. 

Salt (1 teaspoon to each quart of water) may be added to the water in which all 
green vegetables, potatoes or onions are cooked. Do not add salt to parsnips, salsify, 
carrots or turnips or other underground vegetables until after cooking. Do not allow 
vegetables to boil too rapidly it dissipates the flavor and spoils the color. Cook in 
a vessel without a cover. 

SWEET POTATOES SOUTHERN STYLE 

Four boiled sweet potatoes, V pound butter, 1 tablespoon water, lemon juice, }4 
cup brown sugar. Skin boiled potatoes and quarter; place in baking dish, with butter 
on top; sprinkle with the brown sugar; add the water and a little lemon juice; brown 
in oven and serve hot. 

GLAZED SWEET POTATOES 

Six medium-sized potatoes, % cup sugar, % cup water, 3 tablespoons butter. 
Wash and pare potatoes; cook 10 minutes in boiling water; drain, cut in halves 
lengthwise and put in a buttered pan; make a syrup by boiling 3 minutes the sugar 
and water; add butter; brush potatoes with syrup and bake 15 minutes, beating 
twice with remaining syrup. 

SPINACH WITHOUT WATER 

The following method is very little known and has the advantage of preserving 
all the nutriment in the spinach and avoiding the use of boiling water: Having 
washed and drained the spinach very thoroughly, cut it up in coarse pieces and put 
it in a saucepan in which you have heated 3% ounces of butter to every pound of 
spinach; add salt, grated nutmeg and cook sharply. 

SPINACH "AU NATURAL" 

Having cooked the spinach in salt water as before, wash and drain the leaves 
carefully, then remove all water and give them a few strokes with the knife without 
chopping them up; put them into a frying pan in which you have heated some butter; 
salt to taste and serve very hot. This method of preparing spinach is very much 
appreciated in Italy, where they add filets of anchovies to it. 

DUCHESSE POTATOES 

Take freshly boiled and mashed potatoes or some that are left over; add to them 
the beaten yolk of egg; place in a greased tin and form in balls, hearts or flat cakes; 
brush with the beaten white and brown in oven. 

POTATOES WITH CHEESE 

Hash 8 cold boiled potatoes, mix them with Vz cup milk, % ounce of good butter, 
a pinch of salt and pepper and a very small dash of grated nutmeg; place them in a 
dish, sprinkle over them 2 tablespoons of grated American cheese, 2; tablespoons of 
grated bread crumbs, a large teaspoon of melted butter and brown in the oven for 
10 minutes. 

BAKED PEPPERS 

Cold rice and stewed tomatoes can be made into a delicate filling for peppers by 
seasoning highly with spices and- a little onion. These can either be baked directly or 
can first be fried in hot butter or olive oil, then put in a baking dish covered with a 
cup of white stock and baked for % hour or more. All baked peppers are better 
when cooked in stock. 

BAKED POTATOES 

Select smooth, medium-sized potatoes and wash with a brush; place in a dripping 
pan and bake in a hot oven 40 minutes, or until soft; remove from oven and serve 
while hot. 

61 



CUPID'S BOOK 

BOILED POTATOES 

Select potatoes of uniform size; wash, pare and drop at once into cold water to 
prevent their being discolored; soak Vz hour in fall and 1 to 2 hours in winter and 
spring; cook in salted water until soft. For 7 potatoes allow 1 tablespoon salt, and 
boiling water to cover. 

LYONNAISE POTATOES NO. 1 

Cook 1 onion thickly sliced in 3 tablespoons butter until delicately browned; 
remove onion and keep in a warm place; add 3 cups cold boiled potatoes, cut in 
Alices; sprinkle with salt, pepper and stir until well mixed with butter; press to one 
side of spider and let brown richly underneath, then sprinkle onions over potatoes; 
let heat thoroughly; turn on a hot serving platter, top side down; sprinkle with finely 
chopped parsley. Cooking the onion separately lessens the danger of burning. 

LYONNAISE POTATOES NO. 2 

One pint boiled potatoes, cold, Vz teaspoon salt, pinch of pepper, 1 teaspoon 
chopped onion, 2 tablespoons beef dripping or butter, 2 tablespoons chopped parsley. 
Cut the potatoes into slices, season with the salt and pepper; fry the onions in the 
dripping till light brown; put in the potato and cook till it has taken up the fat; add 
the chopped parsley and serve. 

ARTICHOKE SAUTE 

Cut 6 fine, green artichokes into quarters and remove the chokes; trim the leaves 
neatly and parboil them 5 minutes in salted water; drain; lay them in a casserole, 
season with salt, pepper and }4 cup butter; V cup mushrooms, chopped fine, may be 
added; cover and cook in a moderate oven 25 minutes. Serve with any desired sauce; 
Hollandaise is best. 

BAKED BEANS 

One quart navy means, % pound fat salt pork or 1% pounds brisket of beef, *fa 
tablespoon mustard, 1 tablespoon salt, 2 tablespoons molasses, 3 tablespoons sugar, 
1 cup boiling water. Wash, pick beans over, cover with cold water and let soak over 
night; in the morning cover with fresh water, heat slowly and let cook just below 
the boiling point until the skins burst, which is best determined by taking a few on 
the tip of the spoon and blowing over them; if done, the skins will burst; when done, 
drain beans and put in pot with the brisket of beef; if pork is used, scald it, cut 
through the rind in %-inch strips, bury in beans, leaving rind exposed; mix mustard, 
salt, sugar, molasses and water and pour over beans and add enough more water to 
cover them; cover pot and bake slowly 6 or 8 hours; uncover pot the last hour so 
that pork will brown and crisp. 

BRUSSELS SPROUTS 
For Six Persons. Time of Preparation, Two Hours 

Three pounds Brussels sprouts, 3 ounces butter, 1 tablespoon flour, 1 pint stock, 
a pinch of nutmeg, a pinch of carbonate of soda, a pinch of pepper, salt, 1 teaspoon 
chopped parsley, % teaspoon chopped onion. Throw the sprouts, after removing the 
outer leaves, into 3 quarts boiling water, with salt and a pinch of carbonate of soda; 
after bringing up to the boil again, take the sprouts out and drain on a sieve and then 
on a dry cloth, so that no water remains in them; brown an ounce of butter with the 
flour and sugar, add the stock, chopped onion and parsley, pepper, nutmeg and the 
remaining butter; boil up well, then put in the sprouts and allow all to simmer gently 
for half an hour. 

SPINACH COOKED IN BUTTER 

Cook the spinach leaves in a pan with salted water; wash them freely with water 
to remove the sand which they may contain completely; drain them, press out the 
moisture and chop them up very fine; heat some butter in a saucepan, add the 
chopped spinach; stir them up with a long wooden spoon, adding a little butter; this 
will work out all the moisture; season them to taste with salt and a little scraped 
nutmeg, finished by adding \Vz ounces of fine butter. 

BOILED ASPARAGUS 

Cut off lower parts of stalks as far down as they will snap; untie bunches, wash, 
remove scales and tie again; cook in boiling salted water about 15 minutes or until 
soft, leaving the tips out of the water for the first 10 minutes; drain, rtemove string 
and spread with butter, allowing 1% tablespoons butter to each bunch of asparagus. 
This vegetable is often broken into small pieces for boiling, allowing the tips to cook 
a shorter time than the remainder of the stock. 

62 



CUPID'S BOOK 

BOILED GREEN CORN 

After removing husks and threads, boil from 10 to 20 minutes in clear water; 
take from water and place on platter covered with napkin, drawing corners of napkin 
over corn, or it may be cut from cob and seasoned with salt and butter. 

CORN A LA SOUTHERN 

To 1 can chopped corn add 2 eggs, slightly beaten, 1 teaspoon salt, % teaspoon 
pepper, 1% tablespoons melted butter and 1 pint milk; put into a buttered baking dish 
and leave in a slow oven. 

STRING BEANS 

Remove strings and break in 1-inch pieces; wash and cook in clear water, adding 
salt last Vz hour; drain reasonably dry and add butter. 

BAKED CAULIFLOWER 

One and one-half pounds cauliflower, 2 ounces butter, 1 gill milk, % tablespoon 
meat extract, 2 tablespoons flour, a pinch of ground mace. Boil the cauliflower; heat 
1% ounces butter and 2 tablespoons flour to a golden brown; add the milk and % 
pint of the water in which the cauliflower has been boiled with % teaspoon meat 
extract dissolved in it; boil this sauce till thick, then flavor with ground mace; strain 
, and pour over the cauliflower, which has been placed in a deep dish; melt the rte- 
maining % ounce butter, pour it over, sprinkle with grated Parmesan cheese and 
bake in a hot oven, standing the dish in a pan of boiling water. 

ESCALLOPED CORN 

Six ears of cooked corn or 1 can of corn, Vi cup corn liquid, 3 tablespoons milk, 
1 teaspoon sugar, 1 teaspoon salt, % teaspoon pepper, 2 tablespoons flour, 1 cup 
bread crumbs, 1 tablespoon butter. Cut fresh boiled corn, too old to serve on cobs, 
from the cob, or use the pulp of 1 can of corn; mix corn with the salt, pepper, flour 
and sugar and add the liquids; melt the butter, mix with the bread crumbs and cover 
bottom of a pudding dish with half of the crumbs; add the corn mixture and cover 
with the rest of the crumbs; bake in a moderate oven about 20 minutes and serve 
hot in pudding dish. 

MACARONI WITH TOMATOES AND MUSHROOMS 

One-half pound macaroni, 2 quarts boiling water, 2 teaspoons salt, 1 tablespoon 
butter, 1 small onion, cut fine, 1 teaspoon flour, cup of hot beef or chicken stock, 1 
pint stewed tomatoes, 1 tablespoon finely chopped mushrooms, 1 teaspoon salt, 
cayenne pepper, 1 teaspoon parsley, chopped, 3 tablespoons grated Parmesan cheese. 
Add salt and then the macaroni to the boiling water; let boil 20 minutes, stirring to 
avoid sticking to the bottom of the kettle; drain in colander; pour 1 cup of cold water 
through it, then return to cleared kettle. 

POTATO PANCAKES 

Six raw grated potatoes, 3 whole eggs, a pinch of baking powder, 1 tablespoon 
flour, a little milk. Peel large potatoes and soak several hours in cold water; grate, 
drain and for every pint allow 2 eggs, about 1 tablespoon flour, % teaspoon salt, a 
little pepper; beat eggs well and mix with the rest of the ingredients; drop by spoons 
on a hot buttered spider in small cakes; turn and brown on both sides. Serve with 
apple sauce or catsup. 

O'BRIEN POTATOES 

Fry 3 cups potato cubes in deep fat; drain on brown paper, and sprinkle with 
salt; cook a slice of onion in 1% tablespoons butter about 3 minutes; remove the 
onion and add to butter 3 pimentoes (canned), cut fine; when this is thoroughly 
heated, add potatoes, stir well and serve hot with parsley. 

MEXICAN STUFFED CHILI 

Six green peppers, 1 onion, chopped fine, 2 tablespoons of butter, 4 tablespoons 
of chopped mushrooms, J^ cup brown sauce, 3 tablespoons bread crumbs, 4 table- 
spoons lean raw ham, chopped, salt, pepper and buttered bread crumbs. Cut a slice 
from stem end of each pepper, remove the seeds and parboil peppers about 15 min- 
utes; cook onion in butter 3 minutes, add mushrooms and ham, cook a minute, then 
add brown sauce and crumbs; cool the mixture; put into peppers, cover with buttered 
bread crumbs, salt and bake 10 minutes. Serve on toast with brown sauce. 

FRIED PARSNIPS 

Boil until tender, scrape off the skin and cut in lengthwise slices; dredge with 
flour and fry in hot drippings, turning when one side is browned. 

63 



CUPID'S BOOK 

BAKED WINTER SQUASH 

Cut in 3-inch squares; remove seeds and stringy portion; place in a dripping pan; 
season with salt and pepper, and for each square add Vz teaspoon molasses and % 
teaspoon melted butter; bake about 1 hour, or until soft, in a moderate oven, keeping 
covered the first Vz hour. Serve in the shell with dots of butter. 

CORN FRITTERS 

One can corn, 1 cup flour, 1 teaspoon of baking powder, 2 teaspoons salt, % 
teaspoon paprika, 2 eggs. Chop corn and add flour, baking powder, salt and paprika 
mixed and sifted, then add the yolks of eggs beaten thick, and fold in whites beaten 
stiff; cook in fresh, hot lard and drain. 

RICE CROQUETTES 

One teacup of rice; boil 1 quart milk; when boiled and hot add a piece of butter 
the size of an egg, 2 tablespoons of sugar, 2 eggs, juice and grated peel of 1 lemon; 
stir this up well; have ready the yolks of 2 eggs, beaten on a plate, cracker crumbs 
on another; make the rice in rolls and dip in the eggs and crumbs. Fry them in 
butter. Serve hot. 

LIMA BEANS 

Shell them in cold water; let them lie Vz hour or longer; put them into a sauce- 
pan with plenty of boiling water, a little salt and cook until tender; drain and butter 
well and pepper to taste. 

POTATO AU GRATIN 

Slice cold boiled potatoes; make a cream sauce from 2 tablespoons each of butter 
and flour, 1 level teaspoon of salt, % teaspoon of pepper; heat butter; add flour 
and seasoning; when hot, add milk gradually and cook smoothly; add potatoes; let 
heat through and put in buttered individual dishes or baking dish; fold lightly some 
finely chopped cheese and bake about 10 minutes in a moderate oven. 

POTATO CAKES 

Roast some potatoes in the oven; when done, skin and pound in a mortar with 
a small piece of butter, warmed in a little milk; chop a shallot and a little parsley 
very finely, mix well with the potatoes, add pepper, salt; shape into cakes, egg and 
bread crumb them and fry a light brown. 

CARROTS AND OTHER ROOT VEGETABLES 

Scrape or pare carrots, parsnips, turnips. Dice and cook gently in unsalted water 
till tender; drain and reheat in seasoned butter, 1 tablespoon to 1 pint, or in a drawn 
butter or white sauce. In early summer, when roots are small, water should be 
salted. Onions should also be boiled in salted water, then finished as here directed. 

STEWED CORN 

Husk corn; draw sharp knife down center of each row of grain; press out pulp 
with back of knife; to 1 pint add % teaspoon each salt and sugar, dash pepper, Vz cup 
milk; heat and simmer 10 minutes. 

FRIED EGGPLANT 

Pare and slice the eggplant as desired and dip at once into egg (previously 
seasoned with salt and pepper) and then into cornstarch, seeing to it that every part 
is well covered; fry in deep hot fat to a rich brown; lay on brown paper until served, 
to absorb any extra grease. Eggplant cooked in this way will be found very delicate 
and digestible. 

CREAMED CAULIFLOWER 

Remove leaves, cut off stock and soak about 30 minutes (head down) in cold 
water to cover; cook (head up) 20 minutes, or until soft, in boiling salted water; 
drain, separate and reheat in 1% cups white sauce. 



64 





Uncharted 
Courses 

Just what experiences will be 
yours in the next fifty years, no 
one knows. Our wish is, of 
course, that they are always 
pleasant ones. Much of the joy 
of living comes from pleasant 
surroundings. Your immediate 
environment depends upon your- 
self. Make your home pleasant 
and attractive with 



FULLER'S 

PAINTS AND VARNISHES 

FULLER'S RUBBER CEMENT FLOOR PAINT. A hard, dura- 
ble, dependable floor paint. One of the oldest of the Fuller 
products. Dries hard over night. Washing and mopping hard- 
ens it. Obtainable in twelve colors. Gallons to pints. 

FULLER'S SILKENWHITE ENAMEL is remarkable for its 
depth and intensity. If you don't know Fuller's Silkenwhite 
Enamel you don't know enamels. Obtainable in eight shades. 
Gallons to pints. 

FULLER'S WASHABLE WALL FINISH gives the soft pastel 
effects so desirable for any room. Easily cleaned with a damp- 
ened cloth. Obtainable in fifteen colors. Gallons to pints. 

We Tell You How 

If you are unable to locate a master painter, send for 
Fuller's "Home Service" Booklet, which tells you every- 
thing you will want to know about painting and varnishing. 

W. P. FULLER & CO. 

MANUFACTURERS 

"PAINTS FOR EVERY PURPOSE" 



AT YOUR DEALER'S 



65 





A FEW 

FULLER 

PRODUCTS 

Pure Prepared 

Paint 

Pure Colors in Oil 

Phoenix Pure Paint 

Fuller's Floor Wax 

Rubber Cement 

Floor Paint 

Porch and Step Paint 

Fullerwear Varnish 

Fifteen for Floors 

Varnish 
Washable Wall 

Finish 
Pioneer Shingle 

Stains 
Fuller's Hot Water 

Wall Finish 
Silkenwhite Enamel 
Pioneer White Lead 



FULLER 



Paints and 
Varnishes 

FOR EVERY PURPOSE 

Happiness is in a large measure 
dependent upon bright, cheerful 
surroundings. 

Increase your happiness by protect- 
ing and beautifying your property 
with Fuller's Paints and Varnishes. 

DECORET 

A richly tinted gloss finish de- 
signed for refinishing in color any 
wood or metal surface. 
Light Oak, Dark Oak, Walnut, Mis- 
sion Oak, Weathered Oak, Cherry, 
Flemish Oak, Mahogany and Rose- 
wood. 

Fuller's Fifteen for Floors 

Is the most perfect floor varnish 
made. Unaffected by heel marks, 
scratches, wear and tear of rolling 
furniture. Gallons to pints. 

Fuller's Floor Wax 

For polishing floors, furniture 
woodwork, tables, etc. Cannot be 
excelled. In %-lb. to 8-lb. cans. 

Fuller's Hot Water Wall Finish 

A hot water kalsomine tint, easily 
applied. Does not show brush 
marks. Dries rapidly. Obtained in 
5-lb. packages. 



We Tell You How 

If you are unable to locate a master painter, send for Fuller's "Home 
Service Booklet," which tells you everything you will want to know 
about painting and varnishing. 

W. P. FULLER & CO. 

MANUFACTURERS 
"Paints for Every Purpose" 

AT YOUR DEALER'S 



66 



Jellies, Jams, Preserves, Marmalades 



IMPORTANT POINTS FOR JELLY MAKING 

To Prepare Glasses for Jelly. Wash glasses and put in a kettle of cold water; 
place on range and heat water gradually to the boiling point; remove glasses and 
drain; place glasses while filling on a cloth wrung out of hot water. 

To Make a Jelly Bag. Fold 2 opposite corners of a piece of cotton or wool 
flannel % yard long; sew up in the form of a cornucopia, rounding at the end; fell 
the seam to make more secure; bind the top with tape and finish with 2 or 3 heavy 
tape loops by which it may be hung. 

To Heat Sugar. Put in a graniteware pan or dish and place in a moderate oven, 
leaving the oven door ajar; stir occasionally that sugar may heat evenly and not 
become brown. 

In Making Jelly. If you get it too sweet and have no more juice put in a little 
pure cider vinegar; the jelly will "jell" at once and the flavor will not be impaired. 

STRAWBERRY JAM 

To 6 pounds of strawberries allow 3 pounds of sugar; procure some fine scarlet 
strawberries, strip off the stalks and put them into a preserving pan over a moderate 
fire; boil them for half an hour, keeping them constantly stirred; break the sugar 
into small pieces and mix with the strawberries after they have been removed from 
the fire; then place it again over the fire and boil for another % hour very quickly; 
cover with paraffine. 

GRAPE MARMALADE 

Take sound grapes, heat and remove the seeds, then measure and allow measure 
for measure of fruit and sugar; place all together in a preserving kettle and boil 
slowly 25 minutes; add the juice of 1 lemon to every quart of fruit; set away in jelly 
glasses. 

TO PRESERVE PLUMS 

To every pound of fruit allow % pound of sugar; divide the plums; take out the 
stones and put the fruit on a dish with pounded sugar strewed over; the next day put 
them into a preserving pan and let them simmer gently by the side of the fire for 
about 30 minutes, then boil them quickly, removing the scum as it rises, and keep 
them constantly stirred, or the jam will stick to the bottom of the pan; crack the 
stones and add the kernels to the preserve when it boils. 

QUINCE PRESERVES 

Pare and core the fruit and boil till very tender; make a syrup of 1 pound of 
sugar for each pound of the fruit and after removing the scum, boil the quinces in 
this syrup for Vz hour. 

BLACKBERRY JAM 

Crush a quart of fully ripe blackberries with 1 pound of the best loaf sugar 
pounded very fine; put it into a preserving pan and set it over a gentle fire until 
thick; add a glass of boiled cider and stir it again over the fire for about % hour; 
then put into pots and when cold tie them over. 

ORANGE JELLY 

Grate the rind of 6 oranges and 3 lemons into a granite kettle; now squeeze in 
the juice, add 1 cup of water and % pound of sugar to each pint of juice; boil all 
together until a rich syrup is formed; have ready 1 ounce of gelatine dissolved in 1 
pint of warm water; now add syrup; strain the jelly and pour into glasses. 

APPLE JELLY 

Select sound, red, fine-flavored apples, not too ripe. Wash, wipe and core; place 
in a granite kettle, cover with water and let cook slowly until the apples look red; 
pour into a muslin bag and drain; return juice to a clean kettle and boil Vz hour; 
skim; now measure and to every pint of juice allow 1 pound of sugar; boil quickly for 
10 minutes. Red apples will give jelly the color of wine, while that from light fruit 
will be like amber. PLUM JELLY 

Take plums not too ripe, put in a granite pan and set in a pan of water over the 
fire; let the water boil gently till all the juice has come from the fruit; strain through 
a flannel bag and boil with an equal weight of sugar 20 minutes. 

67 



Eat Honey 



Nature's Own Sweet, 
Aids Digestion 




There is nothing more healthful and you should 
use it in your cooking also, as it goes farther and is 
better than sugar. 

In buying 

Howard's Pure Honey" 

you buy direct from the producer and are assured pur- 
ity, cleanliness and lowest price. Demand the above 
label. 

Put up in all sizes of containers 

J. A. HOWARD APIARIES 

PRODUCERS OF 

PURE SAGE, ORANGE, THISTLE AND ALFALFA HONEY 

Try recipes on page 85 

Sanitary Free Market 10th at Washington to Clay 
Stand 63 Oakland, Cal. 

Reg. 4076 Foothill Blvd. Phone Fruitvale 2925 



68 



CUPID'S BOOK 



SPICED FRUITS 

These are also called sweet pickle fruits. For 4 pounds prepared fruit allow 1 
pint vinegar, 2 pounds brown sugar, % cup whole spices cloves, allspice, stick 
cinnamon and cassia-bude; tie spices in thin muslin bag, boil 10 minutes with vinegar 
and sugar; skim; add fruit; cc-ok till tender; boil down syrup; pour over fruit in jars 
and seal. If put in stone pots, boil syrup 3 successive mornings and pour over fruit. 
Currants, peaches, grapes, pears and berries may be prepared in this way, also ripe 
cucumbers, muskmelons and watermelon rind. 

LOVERS' MARMALADE 

Slice very thin 3 thin-skinned oranges, 2 grape fruit and 2 lemons; remove seeds; 
cover fruit with cold water; let stand 24 hours; bring to a boil and allow to simmer 
15 minutes; place in stone crock and allow to stand 24 hours; measure and add equal 
quantity of sugar; boil until it jells; pour in glasses and cover with paraffine. 

CRABAPPLE JELLY 

Select juicy apples; mealy ones are no good. Wash and quarter and put into a 
preserving kettle over the fire with a teacup of water; if necessary add more water as 
it evaporates; when boiled to a pulp strain the apples through a flannel bag, then 
proceed as for other jelly. 

PRESERVED PEACHES 

Select the yellow, red-cheeked ones if possible; skin same as tomatoes, by 
pouring on boiling water, then thrusting them in cold water and separate in halves; 
proceed as for preserving cherries, only using % pound of sugar to every pound 
of fruit. 

PRESERVED CHERRIES 

Select the large cherries; remove the stems and stone them carefully; to each 
pound of sugar allow 1 pound of cherries; put fruit in granite pan and pour sugar 
over them; stir up and let stand over night to candy; in the morning put all into the 
preserving pan, place on the stove and boil gently until the cherries look clear, 
skimming off the scum as it rises; when the cherries have become quite clear, remove 
the pan from the stove and seal. Keep in dry, dark closet. 

PRESERVED TOMATOES 

A pound of sugar to a pound of tomatoes. Take 6 pounds of each; the peel and 
juice of 4 lemon and % pound of ginger tied up in a bag; put on the side of the range 
and boil slowly for 3 hours. 




TRADE MARK 




BRAND 



FOOD PRODUCTS 

Should be the FIRST in your new home 
"At All Leading Grocer's" 



69 



PICKLES 



FRENCH PICKLES 

Slice green tomatoes with onions; add salt; let stand over night; drain thoroughly 
and let boil % hour with vinegar; sugar to taste; white mustard seed, allspice, cloves, 
cinnamon, ginger and little mustard. 

GREEN PEPPER MANGOES 

Secure nice large peppers; cut a slit in them and take out the seed; slice a head 
of cabbage very fine; salt it as for slaw and mix very thick with black mustard seed; 
fill the peppers with this dressing and sew up the slit; lay them in a jar and pour 
over enough cold vinegar to cover them. 

GREEN TOMATO PICKLES 

Slice 1 peck of green tomatoes; add 1 cup of salt and let them stand over night; 
drain the water from them and add 1 gallon of vinegar, 1 large spoon of allspice, 
1 teaspoon of cloves, 1 tablespoon of cinnamon, % teaspoon of ground mustard, 4 
cups of sugar, 1 cup of grated horseradish and simmer together 10 minutes; add 
more sugar. 

SWEET TOMATO PICKLES 

Eight pounds of ripe tomatoes, 4 pounds of sugar, Vz ounce each of cloves, 
allspice and cinnamon; peel the fruit and boil \Vz hours; when partly cold add % 
pint of vinegar. Put away in jars. 

PICCALILLI 

Mix tomatoes, chopped and drained, with chopped onions, red and green peppers 
and horseradish; add spices, sugar and a little curry powder; cover with vinegar and 
boil 1 hour. 

PICCALILLI 

Two cauliflowers, 2 quarts green tomatoes, 1 quart small onions, 24 medium- 
sized cucumbers, green peppers. Chop all together and soak over night in a weak 
brine; next day scald for a few minutes, then drain through a colander; make a 
dressing with the following: % pound mustard, 4 teaspoons celery seed, 5 cups 
sugar, 1 cup flour, % ounce tumeric. Mix all of these ingredients to a smooth paste; 
then add them to 3 quarts of boiling vinegar and allow to boil for 2 minutes; pour 
it over the pickle and when cold bottle and seal with paraffine. This pickle will 
keep for a year. Salt may be used instead of the brine and cabbage instead of the 
cauliflower, if preferred. 

WATERMELON PICKLES 

Boil the melon until you can stick a fork through it readily. To 7 pounds of 
fruit take 3 pounds of sugar, 1 quart of vinegar and 1 ounce each of cinnamon, 
cloves and allspice; scald the vinegar, put sugar and spices in and pour over the 
melon. Do this for 3 mornings. 

BRINE FOR CUCUMBERS 

Wash them in clear water, lay them in a jar and sprinkle them well with salt; as 
you lay in fresh cucumbers, add more salt. They will make their own brine. 

CHOW CHOW 

Twenty-five young, tiny cucumbers, 15 onions sliced, 2 quarts of string beans, 
cut in halves, 4 quarts of green tomatoes, sliced and chopped coarsely, 2 large heads 
of white cabbage. Prepare these articles and put them in a stone jar in layers with 
a slight sprinkling of salt between them; let them stand 12 hours, then drain off the 
brine; now put the vegetables in a kettle over the fire, sprinkling through them 4 red 
peppers, chopped coarsely, 4 tablespoons of mustard seed, 2 tablespoons each of 
celery seed, whole allspice and whole cloves and a cup of sugar; pour on enough of 
the best cider vinegar to cover; cover tightly and simmer well until thoroughly 
cooked. Put in glass jars when hot. 

SWEET CUCUMBER PICKLES 

Prepare as sour pickles except add sugar to taste in the hot vinegar; ginger root 
and horseradish may be added to vinegar. 

70 



CUPID'S BOOK 

DILL PICKLES 

Take medium-sized cucumbers, wash in cold water, then fill quart jars; put in 
each jar % cup vinegar, 1 tablespoon sugar, 2 tablespoons salt, pinch of pickling 
spices and spray of dill; fill rest of space in jars with cold water and seal. These 
pickles are very good and will keep indefinitely. 

EAST INDIA APPLE CHUTNEY 

Two dozen apples, 6 chili peppers, 3 onions, garlic to taste, 3 pounds seeded 
raisins, 1 quart cider vinegar, juice of 8 lemons, 4 cups brown sugar, % teaspoon 
cayenne pepper, 1 tablespoon ground ginger, salt to taste. Pare, core and chop 
apples, raisins, onions and peppers very fine; add the vinegar and cook 1 hour; 
then add the other ingredients and cook 1 hour longer, stirring often with wooden 
spoon. This will keep indefinitely. A little of this chutney will improve all Spanish 
dishes, curried meats and stews. 

SOUR CUCUMBER PICKLES 

Select small cucumbers, wash, sprinkle with salt; cover with cold water, using 1 
cup of salt for each gallon water; allow to stand 12 to 14 hours; rinse and pack in 
fruit jars; add green or red peppers, also whole spices; cover with scalding vinegar. 
If stored in earthen crock, place a plate with weight on top to keep the pickles in the 
vinegar, then cover the jar. These pickles will keep indefinitely. 



RELISHES TO BE SERVED WITH MEATS 



Fried Chicken 
Cream Gravy 
Corn Fritters 



Roast Chicken 
Bread Sauce 
Currant Jelly 



Roast Duck 
Orange Salad 



Roast Canvasback Duck 

Apple Bread 
Black Currant Jelly 



Roast Goose 
Tart Apple Sauce 



Roast Quail 
Currant Jelly 
Celery Sauce 



Reed Birds 
Fried Hominy with 
Celery 



Roast Turkey 
Cranberry or Celery 
Plum, Grape Sauce 

Boiled Turkey 
Mushrooms 
Fried Onions 



Pigeon Pie 
Mushroom Sauce 



Boiled or Baked Fish 
White Cream Sauce 
Drawn Butter Sauce 



Cold Boiled Fish 
Sliced Lemon and 
Olives 



Broiled Mackerel 
Stewed Gooseberries 



Fried Salmon 
Egg Sauce 



Lobster Cutlet 
Sauce Tartare 




Frizzled Beef 
Horseradish 



Corned Beef 

Mustard 



71 



Roast Lamb 
Mint Sauce 



Roast Mutton 
Stewed Gooseberries 



Pork Sausage 
Tart Apple Sauce 
Fried Apples 



Pork Croquettes 
Tomato Sauce 



Roast Pork 
Apple Sauce 



Cold Boiled Tongue 
Sauce Tartare 
Olives stuffed with 
Peppers 



Sweetbread Cutlet 
Caper Sauce 



SPANISH and ITALIAN DISHES 



SPANISH DISH 

Take 1 cup boiled rice, then fry 2 tomatoes and % onion together; season with 
pepper, salt, % teaspoon sugar and Vz chili pepper; mix with rice, all together; then 
add 4 tablespoons of grated Swiss cheese and 1 cup of cooked shrimps; cook on 
back of stove Vz hour. Very good, eaten hot or cold. 

SPANISH BEANS 

Soak 2 cups pink beans over night; in the morning cover beans with water; add 
a small onion and boil until beans will mash between fingers; drain the liquid from 
the beans, but do not throw it away; into a frying pan, not less than 2 inches deep, 
put a large cooking spoon of fresh lard; allow it to become quite clear; after laying 
in as many beans as will absorb lard, place the pan over a hot fire and mix beans 
and lard thoroughly together until the beans appear to have a coating of lard and 
begin to burst; add a cup of the liquid in which the beans were boiled and gently 
crush the beans with a spoon, but do not mash; now add the remainder of the liquid 
and allow to simmer on the back of the stove for % to 1 hour, or until the beans are 
of the consistency desired, either with considerable liquid (but thick) or quite dry. 
Success depends upon observing the following rules: Do not add salt until the beans 
are boiled soft. The onion is not perceptible after cooking, only gives the beans the 
characteristic Mexican taste, which no spice can produce. Have the lard at boiling 
point. Mexican chili may be added after the last portion of liquid is used. 

To prepare Mexican chili, take 6 dry chili peppers, remove seeds and cover with 
water and boil 10 minutes; chop fine and run through sieve to remove skins; put in 
as much or as little, according to how hot you like them. 

SPANISH MEAT PIE 

Two pounds round steak; trim off fat, fry out over slow fire, adding other short- 
ening if not enough fat on meat; when hot, add 1 thick slice of onion, cut fine, and 
2 tablespoons bell pepper (red or green), chopped fine; cook, stirring frequently, 
until onion is a yellow color; cut meat in small pieces, season with salt and pepper, 
dust well with flour; bring fat in pan to smoking point; add meat, stir constantly 
until well browned; add water to cover; cook slowly until meat is tender; remove 
meat from liquid, put in deep earthen baking dish, add 2 cups white potatoes cut in 
thick slices and boiled 5 minutes in salted water; thicken liquid in pan with 2 table- 
spoons flour for every cup of liquid; add more seasoning if necessary; turn over the 
meat and potato; allow to cool while making crust. 

Crust 

Three cups flour, 2 tablespoons baking powder, 1% teaspoons salt, 6 tablespoons 
shortening. Rub into flour with finger tips; wet to stiff dough with cold water; 
roll out in a round cake to fit top of baking dish; make 2 or 3 small openings in top 
to let out steam; place cover over meat; brush top with a little milk; put into oven, 
cook long enough to bake crust thoroughly, about 20 minutes. 

CHILI CON CARNE 

One and one-half pounds of Mexican chili beans, 6 good-sized onions, 6 cloves, 
garlic, 1 can tomatoes, % teaspoon paprika, a bay leaf, 1% pounds hamburger, 3 
tablespoons of Gebhardt's Eagle Chili Powder, salt to taste. Soak the beans over 
night, then cook until done; add can of tomatoes and paprika, bay leaf, salt, slice 
the onions and garlic; fry until done. Put the hamburger into a perfectly dry frying 
pan, no grease; cook until it is separated and dry; make a paste of the chili powder; 
add all to the beans and cook a little longer. 

SPANISH RICE 

Take onions, cut them up fine, and a small piece of garlic cut fine, and put them 
in a pan with 2 or 3 large green peppers; cut small and fry not too brown; then add 
1 can of tomatoes, salt and pepper to taste and a little prepared chili con carne; now 
have a small pan with hot lard; put in rice and fry not too brown; then take rice and 
mix together with the sauce and fry slowly for about 1 hour. You will find this a 
delicious dish, also a very fine vegetable. 

72 



CUPID'S BOOK 

STRING BEANS SPANISH 

Boil 1 pound of string beans until tender; let them cool; beat the whites of 3 
eggs until thick; put in the yellow, beat 5 minutes more; take 6 or 7 string beans 
and roll them in the egg and fry them and serve with tomato sauce. 

CHILI SAUCE 

One dozen ripe tomatoes, 4 large onions, 4 red peppers, all chopped fine, 4 cups 
vinegar, 2 tablespoons salt, 2 teaspoons each ground cloves, cinnamon and ginger; 
boil 2 hours. 

SPAGHETTI ITALIENNE 

Three-fourths pound spaghetti, 3 quarts boiling water, 1 tablespoon salt, 2 table- 
spoons butter, % teaspoon white pepper, a little nutmeg, 1 cup tomato sauce, 2 ounces 
grated Parmesan or Swiss cheese or 1 ounce of each. Slide spaghetti without break- 
ing it into the boiling water gradually and boil 25 minutes; drain; place butter in 
saucepan, salt, pepper and nutmeg; let cook a few minutes; add the hot tomato 
sauce; gently mix with a fork, then add cheese and mix well again with a fork for 1 
minute or longer; dress on a hot dish and serve. 

POLENTA 

Ground meat, 1 medium-sized chopped onion, 1 egg, 2 tablespoons bread crumbs, 
4 sprigs of parsley, salt and pepper. Mix well; make into small balls; drop into the 
sauce and boil for 40 minutes. Sauce: 1 quart tomatoes. 1 pint water, 1 onion, 1 
clove, garlic, 2 bay leaves. Boil one hour, rub through colander and return to stove; 
add heaping teaspoon lard, some salt and Chili powder to taste. When the balls 
have cooked sufficiently, place them around a mound of hot boiled rice or spaghetti, 
pour the tomato sauce over the whole and cover with a layer of finely chopped cheese. 

ROYAL ITALIAN PASTE 

Chop fine, separately, 3 large onions, % garlic, % stalk celery, % cup dried 
mushrooms (soaked in water Vz hour), 1 can tomatoes, salt, black pepper, 3 or 4 
chili capinas, 2 bay leaves, 2 cloves, few sprigs of each, rosemary and parsley. Have 
a good-sized chicken (not too young), older one preferred, cut as for frying, wash 
and dry. Put into kettle with hot olive oil and brown thoroughly; add onions and 
brown, then garlic and celery, allowing to cook a few minutes; add tomatoes and 
flavorings, cooking all together about 3 hours; stir often to prevent burning. When 
chicken becomes tender, remove. Beef may be substituted, if desired. Take about 
2 pounds spaghetti, put in kettle of boiling water (salted); cook until done; then 
drain, dashing cold water over it to prevent sticking. Serve on hot dish, first a layer 
of spaghetti, sprinkle with Parmesan cheese, then a layer of sauce, repeating until 
dish is full. 

PAPRIKA CHICKEN 

Clean and prepare fat chicken as for roasting; make, a good stuffing of bread 
crumbs, chopped onions, herbs to season to taste, binding together with the yolks 
of 2 or 3 eggs; stuff the fowl with it; tie on the breast slices of salt pork and lemon, 
then wrap and tie the whole in stout waxed paper; place in a casserole (or any tight- 
covered baking dish); add enough chicken or veal stock to cover it and 1 clove, a 
whole onion and some chopped parsley; put the lid on and cook in a hot oven 1 
hour; strain the sauce, then add 1 cup of hot cream, the yolk of 1 egg, 1 tablespoon 
of butter, 1 tablespoon of minced parsley and sufficient paprika to give not only a 
decided flavor, but to tinge it pink; when the chicken is quite done (cooking it with 
this sauce as much longer as necessary to make it tender), serve it with the sauce 
poured over it and bordered with hot boiled rice. 



We may live without poetry, music and art; 
We may live without conscience and live 

without hearts. 
We may live without friends, we may live 

without books; 

But civilized man cannot live without cooks. 
Owen Meredith. 



73 



rare i 
aroma! 




W , J _-_^.-r- ._._-. __r-__-_ ,_r-___- -t 

Whet^ your appetite 
and as you qimff 
the coffee - - you 
sing the praises of 

(Swells 

^^^ NATIONAL CREST 

offee 




1,800,000 cups were served at the 
Panama-Pacific International Exposition 

GEO. W. CASWELL CO. 

Established 1884 

442-452 SECOND STREET 

Telephone Sutter 6654 

The proper methods of brewing coffee 
are described on the opposite page 



74 



BEVERAGES 



PREPARATION OF COFFEE 
Measure Carefully 

There is no set rule for the proper proportions of coffee and water. This will 
vary with the kind of coffee used, the way it is ground and the method of brewing 
and, above all, with individual taste. But once you have found the right proportion 
that is, the proportion best suited to your use stick to it. Don't guess. Measure 
carefully, both water and coffee. Remember that in brewing the coffee grounds 
absorb a certain amount of the water in the pot. Therefore, to make five cups of 
coffee, use, say, 5% cupfuls of water and in the same proportion with larger or smaller 
quantities. 

Extracting the Coffee Flavor 

Chemists have analyzed the coffee bean and told us that its delicious taste is due 
to certain aromatic oils. This aromatic element is extracted most efficiently only by 
fresh boiling water. The practice of soaking the grounds in cold water, therefore, is 
to be condemned. It is a mistake also to let the water and the grounds boil together 
after the real coffee flavor is once extracted. This extraction takes place very 
quickly, especially when the coffee is ground fine. The coarser the granulation the 
longer it is necessary to let the grounds remain in contact with the boiling water. 
Remember that flavor, the only flavor worth having, is extracted by the short contact 
of boiling water and coffee grounds and that after this flavor is extracted, the coffee 
grounds become valueless dregs. 

Use Grounds Only Once 

Although the above rules are absolutely fundamental to good coffee making, 
their importance is so little appreciated that in some households the lifeless grounds 
from the breakfast coffee are left in the pot and resteeped for the next meal, with 
the addition of a small quantity of fresh coffee. Used coffee grounds are of no more 
value in coffee making than ashes are in kindling a fire. 

Serve at Once 

After the coffee is brewed the true coffee flavor, now extracted from the bean, 
should be guarded carefully. When the brewed liquid is left on the fire or over- 
heated this flavor is cooked away and the whole character of the beverage is changed. 
It is just as fatal to let the brew grow cold. If possible, coffee should be served as 
soon as it is made. If service is delayed, it should be kept hot, but not overheated. 
For this purpose careful cooks prefer a double boiler over a slow fire. The cups 
should be warmed beforehand, and the same is true of a' serving pot, if one is used. 
Brewed coffee, once injured by cooling, cannot be restored by reheating. 

Scour the Coffee Pot 

Unsatisfactory results in coffee brewing frequently can be traced to a lack of 
care in keeping utensils clean. The fact that the coffee pot is used only for coffee 
making is no excuse for setting it away with a hasty rinse. Coffee making utensils 
should be cleaned after each using with scrupulous care. If a percolator is used 
pay special attention to the small tube through which the hot water rises to spray 
over the grounds. This should be scrubbed with the wire-handled brush that comes 
for the purpose. 

Don't Dry Filter Bags 

In cleansing drip or filter bags use cool water. Hot water "cooks in" the coffee 
stains. After the bag is rinsed keep it submerged in cool water until time to use it 
again. Never let it dry. This treatment protects the cloth from the germs in the 
air which cause souring. New filter bags should be washed before using to remove 
the starch or sizing. 

DRIP (OR FILTER) COFFEE 

The principle behind this method is the quick contact of water at full boiling 
point with coffee ground as fine as it is practical to use it. The filtering medium 
may be of cloth or paper, or perforated chinaware or metal. The fineness of the 
grind should be regulated by the nature of the filtering medium, the grains being 
large enough not to slip through the perforations. 

The amount of ground coffee to use may vary from a heaping teaspoonful to a 
rounded tablespoonful for each cup of coffee desired, depending upon the granula- 

75 



CUPID'S BOOK 

tion, the kind of apparatus used and individual taste. A general rule is the finer the 
grind the smaller the amount of dry coffee required. 

The most satisfactory grind for a cloth drip bag has the consistency of powdered 
sugar and shows a slight grit when rubbed between thumb and finger. Unbleached 
muslin makes the best bag for this granulation. For dripping coffee reduced to a 
powder, as fine as flour or confectioner's sugar, use a bag of canton flannel with 
the fuzzy side in. Powdered coffee, however, requires careful manipulation and 
cannot be recommended for everyday household use. 

Put the ground coffee in the bag or sieve. Bring fresh water to a full boil and 
pour it through the coffee at a steady, gradual rate of flow. If a cloth drip bag is 
used, with a very finely ground coffee, one pouring should be enough. No special 
pot or device is necessary. The liquid coffee may be dripped into any handy vessel 
or directly into the cups. Dripping into the coffee cups, however, is not to be recom- 
mended unless the dripper is moved from cup to cup so that no one cup will get more 
than its share of the first flow, which is the strongest and best. 

The brew is complete when it drips from the grounds, and further cooking or 
"heating up" injures the quality. Therefore, since it is not necessary to put the brew 
over the fire, it is possible to make use of the hygienic advantages of a glassware, 
porcelain or earthenware serving pot. 

STEEPED COFFEE 

For steeping use a medium grind. The recipe is a rounded tablespoonful for 
each cup of coffee desired or as some cooks prefer to remember it a tablespoonful 
for each cup and "one for the pot." Put the dry coffee in the pot and pour over it 
fresh water briskly boiling. Steep for 5 minutes or longer, according to taste, over 
a low fire. Do not boil. Settle with a dash of cold water or strain through muslin 
or cheesecloth and serve at once. 

PERCOLATED COFFEE 

Use a rounded tablespoonful of medium fine ground coffee to each cupful of 
water. The water may be poured into the percolator cold or at the boiling point. 
In the latter case, percolation begins, at once. Let the water percolate over the 
grounds for 5 to 10 minutes, depending upon the intensity of the heat and the flavor 
desired. 

HOW TO MAKE TEA 

Scald an earthen or china teapot; put in 1 teaspoon tea and pour on 2 cups 
boiling water; let stand on back of range or in a warm place 5 minutes; strain and 
serve immediately with milk or without sugar and milk. Avoid second steeping of 
leaves with addition of a few fresh ones. If this is done, so large an amount of 
tannin is extracted that various ills are apt to follow. 



Start Right By Using 



CaswelPs Coffee 



that rare delidousness 



76 



For that true coffee flavor that rare deliciousness 
use CasweWs Coffee 





HAVE COFFEE POT THOROUGHLY CLEANED DAILY 
USE A TABLESPOONFUL COFFEE FOR EACH CUP AND ONE FOR THE POT 

Follow any one of these 
THREE METHODS 

Boiling or Brewing Method A 

Use coffee ground medium. Pour boiling water on re- 
quired amount of coffee in order to bring out the rich- 
ness and strength. Let simmer slowly for fifteen 
minutes. 

Percolating Method B 

Use finely ground coffee. After the water begins 
bubbling over the coffee let continue so, percolating 
slowly from fifteen to twenty minutes until the rich, 
brown color and strength of the coffee are finally 
brought out. 

Filtration Method C 

Place coffee, ground very finely or pulverized, in bag 
suspended in coffee pot and pass the required amount 
of boiling water. 

The filtration method is the quickest way to make 
coffee, but a great deal of care must be given to the 
bag. It should at all times be kept absolutely clean 
and sweet. A good method to adopt is to start with a 

new bag every Sunday morning, and immediately after using the bag 

should be thoroughly cleaned in hot water and kept in a jar of fresh 

cold water. 

Do not use soap in cleaning the bag. 

N. B. Boiling water must be 212 degrees. 

Keep the brew hot. Chilling the brew destroys the affiliation of oils and 

water and therefore the flavor. 

The treasured secret of coffee roasting produces the wondrous flavor 

Our steel cut process used in grinding coffee eliminates 

the bitter chaff and the result is 





CaswelPs National Crest Coffee 

Families in the following cities may obtain our NATIONAL CREST 
brand by writing or telephoning to 

SAN FRANCISCO, CAL., 442-452 SECOND ST . ..Sutler 6654 

SACRAMENTO, CAL., 2031 15TH ST Main 4349W 

OAKLAND, CAL., 1920 GROVE ST Oakland 1017 

FRESNO, CAL., 479 FRESNO AVE. Fresno 2020 

LOS ANGELES, CAL., 2600 SO. SAN PEDRO ST ....South 1970 

PORTLAND, ORE., 25 E. 12TH ST East 7054 

SEATTLE, WASH, 2817 1ST AVE Main 4271 

TACOMA, WASH., 1623 SO. J ST. Main 3414 

SPOKANE, WASH., 2319 N. MONROE ST Maxwell 698 



77 




ORANGE BLOSSOM 



aJJ^ 




This "Orange Blossom" Pattern of Wallace Ster- 
line (Solid) Silver holds an everlasting charm. 
A rare pattern, indeed, and with just that touch 
of refinement that will win your heart as en- 
thusiastically and as permanently as the orange 
blossom has won and held its favor and its 
traditions. 

We hope you will give us the pleasure of showing you this Wallace 
"Orange Blossom" Pattern. 



1226 Broadway 



A. SIGWART & SONS 

JEWELERS 



Oakland 



78 



as it should 




I 



n the following pages are presented 
a few suggestions with the hope that 
they may prove helpful to those who 
are interested in the effective setting 
of the table. 



79 



Oakland -4 



THE DINNER TABLE 




In the setting of the table, as in all other artistic performances, there 
are certain defined rules for procedure which should be observed. 

It is well that every housewife should have a reasonably intimate 
knowledge of those fundamental rules, and it is to her, therefore, that we 
dedicate the authoritative suggestions presented in the following: 

SETTING THE TABLE 

A "silence" cloth should always be used under the table cloth to 
protect the surface of the table, and to muffle the noise. 

The table cloth should be laid smoothly and evenly on the table. If 
the table top is finely polished, doilies may be used instead of a table cloth 
for breakfast, luncheon or informal dinners. 

Twenty-five or thirty inches is allowed from plate to plate. 

Lace doilies should be arranged on the service plates, and on these 
should be placed the cocktail glasses for fruit, oysters or other fish cock- 
tails. The bread and butter plate should go to the left of the place plate, 
above the forks. On the right of this, with the blade turned in, the 
dessert knife should be placed, followed in the order mentioned, by the 
meat knife (fish knife, if used), soup spoon and oyster fork. 

On the left, nearest the plate, is the dessert fork, followed by the 
salad fork, meat fork and fish fork. This rule can best be remembered 
by observing that the silver is laid in the order of its use from, the out- 
side toward the plate. 

The napkin should be placed at the left of the silver, with the fold at 
the top, the open edges at the right toward the edge of the table. 

The napkin should be placed at the left of the silver, 
with the fold at the top, the open edges at the right toward 
the edge of the table. 

The number of glasses used will be determined by 
the kind of beverages to be served. There are 
special glasses for nearly every kind. The water 
goblet is always essential. 



INDIVIDUAL COVER FOR 
DINNER 

Consists of plates, glasses, silver 
and napkin to be used by one person. 

Any graceful arrangement of the 
glasses on the right at the head of 
the knives is proper. An individual 
salt cellar and spoon to the left with 




80 
,(. Sign-art & Sons for Suggestions in Silvenvare 



an individual almond dish on the right completes each place. Salt and 
pepper shakers may be used if desired. They should be so arranged that 
they will be conveniently accessible to all guests. 




THE TABLE DECORATIONS 

The arrangements of flowers is always 
one of personal taste. Complete color 
schemes and original decoration ideas are 
frequently fully carried out in flowers. The 
color schemes to be used are generally de- 
termined by the season, the flowers availa- 
ble and frequently by the event which has 
occasioned the dinner. 

A very popular custom is to place a single flower in a 
slender vase at each place. A low, green centerpiece is very 
pleasing. A single rose laid beside each plate makes an 
effective decoration. 

METHODS OF SERVING 

There are three recognized methods of serving a meal 
the English, the Russian and the Compromise. The Russian 
is more formal than the English and the Compromise com- 
bines points from both. 

In the English service all the food that is to be served in any given 
course is placed on the table in platters and other suitable dishes before 
the host, hostess or some member of the family. The number of plates 
necessary for the persons seated is placed before the carver, or they may 
be taken one by one from a side table and set before him. As each plate 
receives its portion the waiter carries it either 
to the person serving another article of food, 
such as vegetables, or sets it directly before 
the person for whom it is intended. When fin- 
ger bowls are used, a plate bearing a doily' 
upon which the bowl is placed should be placed 
in front of each person. 

In the Russian service serving is done from 
the serving table or pantry. With the exception 
of candies, nuts and relishes, food is not placed 
on the table except as it is served to the indi- 
vidual. A portion of the main dish of the 
course and possibly one accessory are placed 
on each plate before it is brought from the 
pantry. All other dishes are passed. 

Sometimes the plates are all set down 
empty and the food is passed on daintily gar- 
nished platters. As the plates of one course 
are removed the plates of the next course 
should be immediately set in place. The table 
should at no time be without plates except 
that between the main course and dessert all 
dishes should be removed and the table 
crumbed. 

In the Compromise service portions of 
courses or the entire courses are sometimes 
served on the table in the English way and 
others are passed as in the Russian service. The 
soup, for instance, may be served in individual 
plates from the pantry and meat carved at 
the table by the host, the vegetables and the 
salad course both passed by the maid and the 
dessert served at the table by the hostess. 




81 
A. Sigwart & Sons for Suggestions in Silverware 



THE COURSES 

Oysters on the half shell may be served first, either on luncheon 
plates, surrounded by cracked ice or on syecial oyster plates. It is a 
matter of preference as to whether this is done before or after the 
guests are seated. 

The soup service follows. If the soup is served from the table it 
should he brought in by the servant in a tureen, with ladle, and placed 
before the hostess, whose duty it is to serve it. The soup plates are 
either rimmed or cup-shaped. As each service is rendered the servant 
takes it from the hostess and passes it to the guests, always serving 
ladies first. 

When the soup is served from the pantry the tureen is dispensed 
with, the servant bringing in the soup in individual services on a suitable 
serving tray. 

Following the soup service comes the fish course. This requires a 
specially adapted service, including a long, narrow fish platter, with 
sauceboat, ladle and fish plates, which should be slightly warmed. The 
fish platter is either passed from person to person or it may be passed 
by the servant, and each guest is then expected to serve himself. The 
sauceboat is not passed until the fish has been completely served. 

The service plate may be removed before the roast course, although 
if removed it should be returned to the table after the roast course for 
the remaining courses of the dinner. 

The meat course which follows, if the English custom is employed, 
is brought in on a large covered silver platter or on a large china platter. 
The vegetables also may be brought in in appropriate covered dishes. 
The meat course is served on large, carefully heated dinner plates. 

Where steak is served a heavy wooden steak plank, with silver railing, 
simplifies the service and is very effective. 

With the meat course jello or jelly is frequently served. This is 
generally prepared in a special mould. These special moulds may be 
had in original designs to carry out almost any desired decoration. 

Vegetables may be served on the same plates, or preferably, passed 
in small, deep dishes. 

The salad course comes next. It is served on 
small plates made especially for the purpose. 

Appointments, with the exception of the water, 
beverage glass and dessert knife and fork, are 
now removed from each place and the table is 
crumbed. 

The dessert service depends upon the dessert. 
If ice cream is served in individual moulds or 
brick, flat plates are used; otherwise it is served 
in deep dishes or in tall, stemmed glasses. An 
individual ice cream fork or ice cream spoon is 
used and may be placed on the table at the head 
of the service plate when the table is set, or it may 
be given with the course at the time of ice 
cream service. 

If the dessert consists of a frappe or a 
similar delicacy it should be served in a 
comport or tall, stemmed glass. If the 
heavier desserts, such as pie or pudding, 
dessert plates should be used. 

According to the English custom, it is 
perfectly permissible for pie to be served by 
the hostess at the table. In this event the 
pie plate is placed in a container with a 
silver railing or gallery. 




82 



Small plates containing crackers and cheese are now served, being 
placed conveniently at several places on the table. Then follows the 
after-dinner black coffee or demi-tasse. The coffee should be served 
from a china or silver coffee pot by the hostess and should be passed 
to each person by a servant. 

Finger bowls of glass or metal, standing on a plate to match or 
otherwise, are now placed before each guest. 

SPECIAL DECORATIONS 

The setting of the table offers almost unlimited scope for the ex- 
pression of the individuality of the hostess. 

There can be no cut and dried rule as to table decoration. This is 
entirely a matter for the originality of the hostess or the caterer, 
for the originality of the hostess or the caterer. 

It is possible to create very effective, settings without extravagant 
cost if some definite idea is first outlined and then suggested by the 
decoration. 

By way of suggestion, very clever table settings may be accom- 
plished, using special occasions, special days or original ideas as motives. 
For instance, betrothal announcements, showers, weddings, the recurrent 
anniversaries, birthdays, commencements, and other such events offer 
unlimited possibilities for original expression. 

The West, with its romance, its scenic charms, and the beautiful 
colorings offered in the variety of its fruits and flowers, together with 
the ever-artistic and sentimental old mission effects, affords a wide field 
for decorative fantasies. 

There are also many patriotic days Washington's Birthday, Lin- 
coln Day, Independence Day, Decoration Day, and, of course, the good 
old holidays St. Valentine's Day, Easter, Hallowe'en, Thanksgiving, 
Christmas, New Year's Day each presenting its individual opportuni- 
ties for effective table decoration. 

Other beautiful decoration schemes may be carried out by the use 
of maline and the liberal use of flowers, either in solid colors or in con- 
trasting shades. For this purpose we suggest the many unusual flower 
centerpieces. 

Children's parties are also very susceptible to very clever table deco- 
ration. The ages of the children to be entertained, the occasion of their 
entertainment, and their particular inclinations, influence to an important 
degree the character of the decorations. 

WHEN DINNER IS ANNOUNCED 

The host, with his partner, leads the way to the dining room. At 
the table, cards are placed at each cover showing the seating arrange- 
ment. Each gentleman draws out the lady's chair, waits until the host 
and ladies are seated then seats himself. 

ORDER OF SEATING AND SERVING PEOPLE AT TABLE 

The guest of honor, if a man, should be seated at the right of the 
hostess; if a woman, at the right of the host. 

The order of serving is very largely a matter of individual incli- 
nation. 

All the women may be served before the men, beginning with the 
hostess or guest of honor. 

Or the guest of honor or the hostess may be served first and then 
the next person, irrespective of whether man or woman, continuing thus 
around the table. It is advisable to serve one course around the table 
to the right and the other around the table to the left, so that the 
courtesies may be equally divided. 

When the hostess is served first it enables her to judge as to whether 
the dish is properly served and provided with necessary accessories. 



83 




FOR BREAKFAST 

The development and the use of electricity for 
table appliances has added wonderfully to the de- 
lights of breakfast serving. The electric toaster 
makes the toast right at the table, thus insuring 
economy and adding to the delight of the toast 
itself. 

The coffee likewise is made in the electric per- 
colator, and even the bacon and eggs may be 
shirred on the electric grill. 

With the electric waffle iron you can enjoy 
making them right at the table. 




INDIVIDUAL COVER FOR 
LUNCHEON 

The illustration shows the setting 
for the serving of the meat course, also 
the position of the coffee cup, which 
should be placed after the remainder 
of the course has been served. 





COVER FOR BREAKFAST 

On the tray are three pitchers, the 
smallest for cream, next in size for 
milk and the largest for hot water, 
which is provided to heat the cups. 

Before the coffee is served the 
water is poured into each cup, from 
which it is emptied into the bowl, 
which is also on the tray. 



84 



SPECIAL HONEY RECIPES 



HONEY CARAMELS 

1 cup extracted honey of best flavor, 1 cup 
granulated sugar, 3 tablespoons sweet cream or 
milk. Boil to "soft crack," or until it hardens 
when dropped into cold water, but not too brittle 
just so it will form into a soft ball when taken 
in the fingers. Pour into a greased dish, stirring 
in a teaspoon extract of vanilla just before tak- 
ing off. Let it be % or %-inch deep in the dish ; 
and as it cools, cut in squares and wrap each 
square in paraffine paper, such as grocers wrap 
butter in. To make chocolate caramels, add to 
the foregoing 1 tablespoon melted chocolate, just 
before taking off the stove, stirring it in well. 
For chocolate caramels it is not so important that 
the honey be of best quality. C. C. Miller. 



WALNUT CREAMS 

Boil to the hard snap stage 1 cup of grated 
chocolate, 1 cup of brown sugar, 1 cup of ex- 
tracted honey and y 2 cup of sweet cream. When 
it hardens on being dropped in water, stir in but- 
ter the size of an egg. Just before removing from 
the fire, add 1 teaspoon of vanilla and 2 cups of 
finely chopped walnuts. Stir thoroughly and pour 
in buttered plates to cool, cutting it into squares. 
Other kinds of nuts may be substituted for wal- 
nuts. 



BUTTERSCOTCH 

1 cup butter, 2 cups of sugar, 2 cups of ex- 
tracted honey, 1 heaping teaspoon of cinnamon. 
Boil ten minutes, pour into a buttered pan and 
when cold cut into squares. 



HONEY NUT-CAKES 

8 cups sugar, 2 cups honey, 4 cups milk or 
water, 1 Ib. almonds, 1 Ib. English walnuts, 3 
cents' worth each of candied lemon and orange 
peel, 5 cents' worth citron (the last three cut 
fine), 2 large tablespoons soda, 2 teaspoons cin- 
namon, 2 teaspoons ground cloves. Put the milk, 
sugar and honey on the stove to boil 15 minutes ; 
skim off the scum, and take from the stove. 
Put in the nuts, spices and candied fruit. Stir 
in as much flour as can be done with a spoon. 
Set away to cool, then mix in the soda (don't 
make the dough too stiff). Cover up and let 
stand over night, then work in enough flour to 
make a stiff dough. Bake when you get ready. 
It is well to let it stand a few days, as it will not 
stick so badly. Roll out a little thicker than a 
common cooky, cut in any shape you like. 

This recipe originated in Germany, is old and 
tried and the cake will keep a year or more. 
Mrs. E. Smith. 



HONEY AND ALMOND CAKES 

Put into a saucepan 2 cups of liquid honey 
with "4 Ib. of powdered sugar. Cook 2 to 3 min- 
utes, add *4 Ib. of almonds (chopped) and cook 
5 minutes longer. Now add enough flour to make 
a stiff dough. Take from the fire, and when 
slightly cooled add eight ounces of candied 
orange peel, cut fine, the yellow rind of a lemon, 
% teaspoon each of ground cinnamon and grated 
nutmeg, % teaspoon of soda, a pinch of salt and 
a glass of grape juice. While the dough is still 
warm, roll thin and stamp into little rectangles. 
Bake in a moderate oven and when cold, ice. 



OBERLIN HONEY LAYER-CAKE 
Two-thirds cup of butter, 1 cup honey, 3 eggs 
beaten, y 2 cup milk. Cream the butter and honey 
together, then add the eggs and milk. Then add 2 
cups flour containing 1% teaspoons baking pow- 
der previously stirred in. Then stir in flour to 
make a stiff batter. Bake in jelly tins. When 
the cakes are cold, take finely flavored candied 
honey, and after creaming it, spread between the 
layers. 

HONEY JUMBLES 

Chop finely x /4 pound each of citron and can- 
died orange peel ; place in a nappy and just cover 
with warm strained honey and let stand over 
night in a warm place. Beat 2 eggs and 1 cup 
of white sugar until smooth ; add the fruit and 
honey, a little salt and 2% cups of flour. Knead 
to a smooth dough, roll thin, cut into fancy 
shapes and bake in a rather quick oven. 

OBERLIN HONEY FRUIT-CAKE 

One-half cup butter, % cup honey, 1/3 cup 
apple jelly or boiled cider, 2 eggs well beaten, 1 
teaspoon soda, 1 teaspoon each of cinnamon, 
cloves and nutmeg, 1 teacup each of raisins and 
dried currants. Warm the butter, honey and 
apple jelly slightly, add the beaten eggs, then 
the soda dissolved in a little warm water ; add 
spices and flour enough to make a stiff batter, 
then stir in the fruit and bake in a slow oven. 
Keep in a covered jar several weeks before using. 

HONEY SHORTCAKE 

Three cups of flour, 2 teaspoons baking pow- 
der, 1 teaspoon salt, % cup shortening, 1% cups 
sweet milk. Roll quickly and bake in a hot 
oven. When done, split the cake and spread the 
lower half thinly with butter, add the upper half 
with % pourid of the best flavored honey. (Can- 
died honey is preferred. If too hard to spread 
well, it should be slightly warmed or creamed 
with a knife.) Let it stand a few minutes and 
the honey will melt gradually and the flavor will 
permeate all through the cake. To be eaten with 
milk. 

HONEY AND TAR COUGH CANDY 

Boil a double handful of green hoarhound in 2 
quarts of water, down to 1 quart ; strain, and 
add to this tea 2 cups of extracted honey and a 
tablespoon each of lard and tar. Boil down to 
a candy, but not enough to make it brittle. Begin 
to eat this, increase from a piece the size of a 
pea to as much as can be relished. It is an ex- 
cellent cough candy and always gives relief in a 
short time. 

INDIAN PUDDING 

Five cups of milk, 1/3 cup of corn meal, % 
cup of honey, 1 teaspoon of salt, 1 teaspoon of 
sugar. 



Cook milk and meal in a double boiler 20 min- 
utes ; add honey, salt and ginger ; pour into a 
buttered pudding -dish and bake 2 hours in a slow 
oven ; serve with cream. 

FOR SUGAR-CURING 100 POUNDS OF MEAT 

Eight pounds of salt, 1 quart of honey, 2 
ounces of saltpeter and 3 gallons of water. Mix> 
and boil until dissolved, then pour it hot on th 
meat. 



Contributed by the J. A. Howard Apiaries. For best results use Howard's Pure Honeyl 



85 




Ghirardelli's 

GROUND CHOCOLATE 




Say "GEAR-AR-DELLY" 

The all-in-one chocolate as a beverage, 
for baking, for dessert making 



86 



Ghirardelli's Brown Stone Front Cake 

Three-fourths cup Ghirardelli's Ground Chocolate, Vz cup sweet milk. 
2/3 cup brown sugar, yolk of 1 egg. Beat all together; soft boil until 
like a custard; set to cool. This is the cream: Take 1 cup brown 
sugar, % cup butter, % cup sweet milk, 2 eggs, 2 cups sifted flour. After 
the cake is mixed then stir in the above cream; then add 1 teaspoon soda 
dissolved in a little warm water; spread white boiled icing over and be- 
tween the layers. 

Chocolate Spanish Cream 

Take iVz tablespoons gelatine, 2 eggs, iVz teaspoons vanilla, 2% cups 
milk, 4 tablespoons sugar, 3 tablespoons Ghirardelli's Ground Chocolate. 
Soak gelatine in milk; put on fire and stir until dissolved; add yolks of 
eggs, well beaten with two tablespoons of sugar; stir chocolate to smooth 
paste with a little cold water; add to milk; stir until it comes to boiling 
point; remove from stove; have whites of eggs beaten with 2 tablespoons 
of sugar; add whites, stirring briskly. Flavor and turn into mould. 
Serve with whipped cream or sauce. 

Devil's Cake - - All Chocolate 

Take 1 cup sugar, butter size of an egg; cream these ingredients to- 
gether; 1 cup of sour milk, 1 egg. Sift 1 cup of flour, 1 teaspoon of 
soda and 3 tablespoons of Ghirardelli's Ground Chocolate together four 
or five times; add the creamed butter and sugar, then the egg, well 
beaten, and the sour milk; stir well; bake in a moderate oven. When 
cool, cover with chocolate frosting. 

Ghirardelli's Chocolate Fudge 

Four rounded tablespoons of D. Ghirardelli's Ground Chocolate, 2 
cups sugar, 1 cup milk, butter the size of a small hen's egg, 1 teaspoon 
vanilla, 2 drops lemon extract. Boil sugar, butter and milk until thick 
and add chocolate; cook until thread spins when tried; then add extract 
and take from fire, stirring until nearly cold or becomes sugary. Turn 
on a well-buttered dish and cut in squares. 

Chocolate Bread Pudding 

Take 2 large cups of crumbled bread; let this stand Vz hour, covered 
with 3 cups of boiling milk; beat 2 eggs and add Vz cup sugar and 4 
tablespoons of Ghirardelli's Ground Chocolate, butter the size of walnut 
and pinch of salt; add this to milk and bread crumbs; flavor with vanilla 
extract and bake 1 hour in a covered buttered dish, in a medium oven. 
Serve with hard sauce, whipped cream or vanilla sauce. 

Chocolate Sauce 

One egg, 1 cup milk, 1 teaspoon cornstarch, % cup sugar, 2 tea- 
spoons Ghirardelli's Ground Chocolate, 1 teaspoon vanilla. Scald milk 
and add the cornstarch, which has been dissolved in a little of the cold 
milk; beat egg and add to the mixture with the sugar, chocolate and 
vanilla. 



Chocolate Icing 



Place 2 ounces of Ghirardelli's Ground Chocolate in an enameled 
saucepan with a quarter pint of boiling water; set on the stove for a few 
minutes, stirring constantly; then remove, add % pound of pulverized 
sugar and stir again until perfectly smooth. 



87 




Instant Appeal 

^ ~* * 

o f 

\J C// i/L/ 







Wallace Silver Plate lends 
an atmosphere of distinc- 
tion to any table it graces. 
The patterns possess the refine- 
ment and finish that one has been 
accustomed to associate only with 
the expensive Sterling ware. 
The discriminating public has discovered in 
Wallace Silver a plated ware that they are 
proud to present to their friends, proud to 
own and use, proud to hand down to their children. 
It will give us as much pleasure to show you our new 
"Hostess" pattern as you will experience in viewing it. 



1226 Broadway 



A. SIGWART & SONS 

JEWELERS 



Oakland 




88 



TABLE ETIQUETTE 



Whether it be a family dinner without guests or a formal occasion, 
a man shows courtesy and breeding by waiting until the ladies have been 
seated. At a luncheon or dinner a woman waits politely until her 
hostess is seated, and a young girl does not take her place until each 
order woman has taken hers. 

Proper Seat at Table 

One should sit erect, and neither lounge nor bend forward while 
eating. A seat drawn too closely throws out the elbows, one too far 
away crooks the back. The proper compromise is a position in which 
the waist or chest is about eight inches from the table. 

While at the table it is not considered good manners to put one's 
elbows on the table, to trifle with the knives and forks, or to clink the 
glasses. When not occupied, the hands should lie quietly in the lap, 
for nothing so marks the well-bred gentleman or lady as repose at the 
table. 

Use of Napkin 

This must not be spread out to its full extent over the lap or chest, 
and none but the vulgarian tucks his napkin in the top of his waistcoat. 
To unfold it once and lay it across the knees is sufficient. At the con- 
clusion of a meal in a restaurant or at the table of a friend it is not 
necessary to diligently fold the square of linen in its original creases and 
lay it by the plate. Since the napkin will not be used again until it is 
washed, it is sufficient to place it unfolded on the table when arising. 
This rule is not followed when visiting for a few days in a friend's house. 
Then the guest should do as the host and hostess do, for not in every 
household is a fresh napkin supplied at every meal. 

Knife and Fork 

The knife is invariably held in the right hand and is used exclusively 
for cutting and never for conveying food to the mouth. The fork is 
shifted to the right hand when the knife is laid aside, and save for small 
vegetables, such as peas, beans, etc., it is not used spoonwise for passing 
food to the mouth. 

It is an evidence of careless training in table manners to mash food 
in between the prongs of the fork, to turn the concave side of the fork 
up and, loading it with selections from different foods on the plate, to 
lift the whole, shovelwise, to the mouth. 

No less reprehensible is it to hold knife and fork together in the air 
when the plate is passed up to the host or hostess for another helping, 
or, when pausing in the process of eating, to rest the tip of the knife and 
fork on the plate's edge and their handles on the cloth. When not in 
active service both of these utensils must remain resting wholly on the 
plate, and at the conclusion of a course they should be placed together, 
their points touching the center of the plate, their handles resting on the 
plate's edge. 

Not only fish, meats, vegetables and made dishes, melons and salads, 
as well, are eaten with a fork. Oysters and clams, lobster, crab and 
terrapin are fork foods. It is a conspicuous error in good manners to 
cut salad with a knife. Lettuce leaves are folded up with the fork and 
lifted to the mouth. 

Use of the Spoon 

Never allow a spoon to stand in a coffee, tea or bouillon cup while 
drinking from it. For beverages served in cups and glasses it is enough 
to stir the liquids once or twice, to sip a spoonful or two to test the tem- 
perature and then, laying the spoon in the saucer, to drink the remainder 
directly from the cup. To dip up a spoonful of soup and blow upon it in 



89 



order to reduce the temperature is a habit that should be confined to 
nursery days. Soup should be dipped up with an outward motion, never 
by drawing the spoon toward one. 

Liquids are imbibed from the side, not the end, of the spoon. 
The foods eaten with a spoon are grape fruit and its cousins, small 
and large fruits when served with cream, hot puddings and custards, 
jellies, porridges and preserves and hard or soft-boiled eggs. 

Use of Finger Bowl 

A finger bowl is the necessary adjunct to a fruit course. The bowl, 
half filled with water, is set upon a plate, on which a small doily lies. 
Unless a second plate is served with the fruit, that on which the bowl 
of water stands is intended to receive it. Then the bowl and doily must 
be removed slightly to one side and the former placed upon the latter. 
When the fruit is finished each hand in turn must be dipped in the water, 
not both together, as though the bowl were a wash basin. A little rub- 
bing together of the finger tips, without stirring up or splashing the 
water about, cleanses them thoroughly and they must be dried with the 
napkin on the knees. 

Noiseless and Deliberate Eating 

To eat slowly and quietly is an evidence of respect for one's health 
and personal dignity. Only -the underbred or uneducation bolt their 
food, strike their spoon, fork or glass rim against their teeth, suck up a 
liquid from a spoon, clash knives and forks against their plates, scrape 
the bottom of a cup, plate or glass in hungry pursuit of a last morsel, 
and masticate with the mouth open, pat the top of a pepper pot to force 
out the contents and drum on a knife-blade, in order to distribute salt on 
meat or vegetables. 

Conversation and small mouthfuls are aids to digestion and it is a 
useless and ugly exertion to smack the lips together when chewing food. 

Individual salt cellars are commonly used today. A well-arranged 
dinner, breakfast or luncheon table is provided with one between each 
two covers. A helping from one of these should be taken with the small 
salt spoon which lies across or beside it and placed on the edge of the 
plate, not upon the cloth beside the plate. To thrust one's knife point 
into the salt dish is vulgar in the extreme. When distributing salt upon 
food, do not take a pinch between thumb and forefinger; a little taken 
up on the knife's point, or whatever will adhere to the fork prongs, is 
enough to savor the whole of any helping of food on the plate. 

A last and elusive morsel of food should never be pursued about a 
plate and finally pushed upon a fork by the assisting touch of a finger. 
A bit of bread may be utilized for this purpose or, better still, the knife 
if it is at hand. 

A mouthful of meat, vegetable or dessert should never be taken up 
by a fork or spoon and held in midair while conversation is carried on. 
As soon as food is lifted from the plate it should be put into the mouth. 

Accidents at Table 

Mishaps happen even to the most careful person. When, however, 
anything flies from the plate or lap to the floor, one should allow the 
servant to pick it up. Should grease or jelly drop from the fork to one's 
person, then to remove it with the napkin corner is the only remedy. 

Very often, however, the apparently well-conducted gentleman or 
lady, when such an accident befalls, gravely wipes his or her knife on a 
bit of bread or the plate's edge and headfully scrapes away the offending 
morsel. This is decidedly the wrong way to do it, just as it is a bad 
error thoughtfully to scrape up a bit of butter or fragment of fowl from 
the tablecloth where it has fallen beside the plate. At the family board 
this is well enough, but at a restaurant or a friend's table it is bad man- 
ners. 



90 



If an unfortunate individual overturns a full water glass at a dinner 
table, profuse apologies are out of place. To give the hostess an appeal- 
ing glance and say, "Please forgive me; I am very awkward," or "I must 
apologize for my stupidity; this is quite unforgiveable," is enough. 

Should a cup, glass or dish be broken through carelessness, then a 
quick, quiet apology can be made and within a few days sincere repent- 
ance indicated by forwarding to the hostess, if possible, a duplicate of the 
broken article and a contrite little note. 

A serious and unpleasant accident is that of taking into the mouth 
half-done, burning hot or tainted foods. The one course to pursue, if it 
cannot be swallowed, is quickly and quietly to eject the morsel on the 
fork or spoon, whence it can quietly be laid on the plate. This can be 
so deftly accomplished that none need suspect the state of affairs. 

Foods Eaten with the Fingers 

At luncheon, breakfast, high tea or supper a small plate and silver 
knife lie beside the larger plate and on this the breads offered must be 
laid not on the cloth and the small silver knife not the large, steel- 
bladed ones used for spreading the butter. At dinners the roll in the 
napkin is taken out and laid on the cloth at the right beside the plate. 
Never bite off mouthfuls of bread from a large piece nor cut it up. 
Break it as needed in pieces the size of a mouthful, spread on a bit of 
butter, if that is provided, and so transfer with the fingers to the mouth. 

Crackers are eaten in the same way. Celery, radishes, olives, pickles, 
salted nuts, crystallized fruits, bon bons and raw fruits (save berries, 
melons and grapefruit), artichokes and corn on the cob are all eaten 
with the fingers. 

Cake is eaten like bread, or with a fork. 

Peaches are quartered, the quarters peeled, then cut in mouthfuls 
and these bits transferred with the fingers to the lips. Apples, pears 
and nectarines a'e similarly treated. Plums, apricots, grapes, etc., if 
small enough, are eaten one by one and when the pits are ejected they are 
dropped from the lips directly into the half-closed hand and so trans- 
ferred to the plate. 

Burr artichokes are broken apart, leaf by leaf, the tips dipped in 
sauce and lifted to the mouth. The heart is cut and eaten with a fork. 

Cheese is cut in bits, sometimes placed on morsels of bread or biscuit 
and lifted in the fingers to the lips, but more often eaten with a fork. 

Oranges, like green corn on the cob, are hardly susceptible of grace- 
ful treatment unless served in halves and eaten with a spoon. An orange 
may be cut into four pieces, the skin then easily drawn off, the seeds 
pressed out, and each quarter severed twice, forms a suitable mouthful. 
Deliberately to peel and devour an orange, slice by slice, is a prolonged 
and ungraceful performance. 

Is it necessary to reiterate the warnings of most all writers on 
etiquette that chicken, game and chop bones may under no circumstances 
be taken up with the fingers? 

Whoever is so unskilled as to fail to cut the larger part of the meat 
from chop and fowl bones must suffer from their inadeptness and forego 
the enjoyment of these tempting morsels. 

Asparagus is not taken up in the fingers. All that is edible of the 
stalk can easily be cut from it with a fork. The sight of lengths of this 
vegetable dripping with sauce and hoisted to drop into the open mouth is 
not in keeping with decent behavior at the modern dinner table. 

The Second Helping 

At a large and formal dinner party, elaborate luncheon or cere- 
monious breakfast, a guest, no matter how intimately associated with the 
host or hostess, should not ask for a second helping of any of the dishes. 
At a small dinner party, when a guest is a rather intimate friend of host 
or hostess, the request for a second helping to a dish is accepted by the 



91 



hostess as a compliment. At a formal dinner neither the host nor hostess 
should delay the progress of the courses by asking anyone to taste again 
of a dish that has been passed, but at a small dinner or a family dinner 
it displays a hospitable solicitude when a hostess invites her guests to 
take a second helping. At a small dinner party she could do this by 
directing the servant to pass the dish again to everyone at table, or, 
when herself helping an entree, salad or dessert, requesting her guests 
to accept a second serving of the dish before her. The host who carves 
does well to offer a little more of the meat to those who he sees have 
disposed of their first helping. To press a second slice of meat or 
second spoonful of dessert upon a guest who has politely refused is to 
exceed the bounds of civility. 

A guest is always privileged to ask for a second or third glass of 
water at a dinner that is formal or informal. This must be done by 
making the request quietly of the servant when next she approaches the 
diner's chair. 

At the Conclusion of a Meal 

When a meal is concluded it is most reprehensible to push away the 
last plate used and brush the crumbs on the cloth into little heaps. Leave 
the last plate in its place, lift the napkin from the lap and lay it on the 
table's edge, rise slowly and quietly, taking no precaution to push the 
chair back into place, unless dining at home or informally at a friend's 
house, where such is the rule. The ladies at a dinner or at the family 
table make the first motion to leave the table. A gentleman always 
stands aside to let a lady precede him, and it is only courteous to wait 
until everyone at a table has finished eating before hurrying away. This 
rule is, of course, not observed at a boarding house or small foreign 
hotel, where all the members of a promiscuous household gather at one 
long board, but it should be scrupulously observed in a private house- 
hold. In the latter circumstances, when anyone is obliged to leave the 
table before others have finished, it is but polite to turn to the mother. 
or whoever occupies the head of the table, and say "Please excuse me," 
before rising, and "Thank you," when the permission is granted. None 
but the hopeless provincial and vulgarian uses a toothpick after his or 
her meal. 



ANCHORED ENTHUSIASM IS ADVISED FOR ALL 

Enthusiasm is fine. So is idealism. So is optimism. So Is faith. So is 
vision. So are a whole lot of other things. But always keep one foot on the 
ground. Too many of us are given to flying to extremes. We lack ballast. We 
often let our dreams run away with us. We lose all sense of perspective and 
proportion. When things are going well with us we conclude that they will 
always continue to do so. and we accordingly neglect to provide safeguards 
against a reversal of fortune. The business concerns which are in direct 
straits today are those that overshot the mark most during the boom. They 
failed to look ahead. They reckoned upon prosperity lasting forever. A good 
many of us do the same thing. 

After all, plain, ordinary gumption is the greatest asset in the world. 
Gumption embraces level-headedness, judgment, stability, power to hold on, 
rational but not blind optimism, reasonable but not unreasonable self-reliance, 
alertness to the value of looking before you leap and of counting the cost before 
you run up a bill. Let us phllsophize; yes. But let us not forget that before 
we can philosophize fruitfully we must first buckle down to the workaday task 
of earning a living. Forbes Magazine, New York. 



92 



Below is a copy of the indorsement received by the "Bride's Cook Book" 
in its effort to do its part in helping to win the war. Recipes in this 
booh have been changed to a pre-war basis, with many new and valuable 
additions. Cupid's Book is a continuation of the Bride's Cook Book. 



LACHMAN BUILDING Telephone Kearny 4100 

417 MARKET STREET 
San Francisco 



UNITED STATES FOOD ADMINISTRATION 

RALPH P. MERRITT 

Federal Food Commissioner for California 



July 18, 1918. 

Pacific Coast Publishing Company, 

560 Mission Street, 

San Francisco, California. 

Gentlemen : 

The recipes in The Bride's Cook Book have been 
carefully examined by the Home Economics Depart- 
ment of the United States Food Administration for 
California and found to be in accordance with its 
rulings. 

By following the Wheatless and Sugarless recipes 
contained therein the Housewife is performing a 
patriotic duty in the conserving of Food so necessary 
for our Allies and armies abroad. 

Great appreciation is given to the publishers of 
the book for its construction along the line of Food 
Conservation. 

Yours very truly, 

UNITED STATES FOOD ADMINISTRATION FOR 
CALIFORNIA 

(Signed) FREDERICK O'BRIEN, 

Director of Education. 



93 



To Recipients of this 
BOOK 



T 




HE Publishers request that you pat- 
ronize the advertisers listed herein 
who manufacture and distribute the 
best grades of food products and 
merchandise described in the va- 
rious advertisements. 



The free distribution of this Book 
is made possible through revenue 
received from the advertisements, and the pub- 
lishers request that when you receive this 
book, you in turn, whenever possible, patronize 
the advertisers. 

The publishers of this Book will only accept 
advertisements from firms and merchants of 
well-known reputation and whose products 
and goods are considered the best in quality. 

When dealing with the advertisers, kindly 
mention Cupid's Book. 

Use this little book as a Buyer's Guide. 




94 




Clorox Should Be In Every Home 

THE MOST WONDERFUL BLEACHER, DISINFEC- 
TANT GERMICIDE KNOWN TO SCIENCE 

A Few Good Uses for 

CLOROX 

Makes Washing Easy Bleaches Clothes 

White as Snow 
Bleaches and Cleanses Toilet, Bath Tubs, 

Drainboards, Sinks 
Removes Ink, Wine, Fruit, Coffee, Tea 

and other Stains, also Mildew 
Disinfects Drains, Garbage Cans, etc. 




HOUSEHOLD HINTS 



CARE OF THE KITCHEN FLOOR 

A linoleum covered floor is the most easily kept clean. The hardwood floor is 
the next best. Anything spilled should be wiped up at once. Grease-spots on wood 
or stone should be covered with flour, starch or powdered chalk to absorb the grease. 
Or if you pour cold water on the grease as soon as it is spilled, to harden it, the 
greater part may then be scraped off. Sweep the floor thoroughly once a day. 
With care it will not need washing or scrubbing oftener than once a week. 

CARE OF HARDWOOD FLOOR 

Never use water on a hardwood floor. Wipe it with a cloth moistened with 
very little kerosene a teaspoon or two to begin with, and as much more when that 
has evaporated. Rub hard with another cloth until the wood is perfectly dry. 
Window sills and all hardwood finish should be cleaned in the same way. 

CARE OF OIL CLOTH 

Wash oil cloth with warm water and milk. Use one cup of skim milk to one 
gallon of water. Wipe dry with a clean cloth. 

CLEANING PAINT 

Take a little whiting on a clean, damp cloth and rub it on the surface to be 
cleaned. Take care not to let drops of water trickle down the paint. Wash off with 
a second cloth and clean water. Wipe dry with a third cloth. Clean a little at a 
time, leaving the cleaned part dry before going on. 

CARE OF SINK 

Neglect of sink causes bad odors and attracts water-bugs and roaches. Keep it 
at all times free from scraps. When the dishes have been washed, scour it with a 
good scouring soap. Wipe the woodwork and tiling. Wash strainer, soapdish and 
other sink utensils. Wash the cloth. Scrub the draining-board and rinse the sink. 
If it is of iron and is to be left for several hours, wipe it dry. If rusty, use kerosene, 
or grease it with mutton-fat or lard, sprinkle with lime, and leave over night. 

CARE OF FAUCETS 

Clean brass faucets with flannel dipped in vinegar or lemon juice and rub thor- 
oughly with rottenstone and oil, then polish with a dry cloth, or apply putz pomade 
or some similar preparation; rub it off with another cloth, and polish with a third 
one. If the faucets are greasy, wash them with soap-suds or sal-soda solution before" 
using anything else. Nickel faucets and trimmings need only to be wiped. 

SPECIAL INSTRUCTIONS 

Do not put knife-handles in water. Water discolors and cracks ivory and bone 
handles, and may loosen wooden ones. After washing knives, scour them with bath 
brick. Do not wash bread-board or rolling pin at an iron sink. The iron will leave 
marks on them. Wash them at the table. Be careful not to wet the cogs of a Dover 
egg-beater. Wash the lower part, and wipe off the handles with a damp cloth. Water 
washes the oil from the cogs, making the beater hard to turn. Dry the seams of a 
double-boiler carefully. Do not waste time polishing tins. It is sufficient to have 
them clean and dry. Dip glasses into hot water, so that they will be wet inside and 
outside at the same time. Silver and glass are brightest if wiped directly from clean, 
hot suds, without being rinsed. A damp towel makes dull spoons and glasses. Scald 
and rinse with boiling water all vessels that have contained milk. Wash teapot and 
coffee-pot in clean, hot water without soap, and wipe dry. Clean the spout carefully. 
Let them stand for awhile with covers off. Wash dishpan and rinsing-pan, and wipe 
dry with a towel, not with the dish-cloth. Where running hot water is plentiful, 
time and towels can be saved by placing the dishes as they are washed in a wire rack, 
rinsing them with very hot water. Wipe glasses and silver. China and other ware 
will need only a polish with towel or strip of paper toweling. For success with this 
method, the dishes must be washed in clean, hot suds, and rinsed quickly. If washed 
in greasy water, or allowed to cool before being rinsed, they will not dry clean. 
Caution: Gold-decorated china should not be washed in this way. Very hot water 
may injure it. 

96 



CUPID'S BOOK 

REMOVAL OF TARNISH 

Acids dissolve tarnish. Oxalic acid, lemon-juice and vinegar may be used. But, 
except for spots, it is best to rely mostly upon powders in cleaning metals. A chemi- 
cal that removes the tarnish may attack the metal. For example, any chemical that 
brightens zinc, eats into it. If acid is used on any metal, all traces of it must be 
removed by rubbing with powder, or the tarnish will quickly reappear. Oil or water, 
mixed with the powder, forms a paste easy to apply. Use chamois-skin or soft cloth 

TO SCOUR STEEL KNIVES 

Scrape off a little bath brick with the back of the knife or with an old knife. 
Dip a cork in water or oil, and then in the brick-dust. Hold the knife firmly, with 
the blade resting flat upon a level surface, and rub both sides of the blade with the 
cork. Wash the knife. Scour steel forks in the same way. Never scour silver-plated 

CARE OF ALUMINUM WARE 

Aluminum should not be used for vegetables with strong acid or for boiling 
eggs. These discolor it. Otherwise it needs little care. Never use soda on aluminum. 
Before using any polish fill with water and bring to a boil. For bad stains use oxalic 
acid diluted, one teaspoon of acid to two quarts of water. If the stain still remains, 
rub mith a damp cloth dipped in whiting. 

TO CLEAN SILVERWARE 

The quickest way to brighten silver is by electrolysis, that is, by decomposing 
the tarnish by electricity. One device for this purpose is an aluminum pan with 
crcias-bars of tin on the bottom. Fill the pan with water, and for every quart dissolve 
in it one teaspoon of baking-soda and one tablespoon of salt. The silver must rest 
on the bars and be covered with the solution. A mild current of electricity is set up, 
which causes the tarnish quickly to disappear. No rubbing is needed, but embossed 
silver may need brushing to loosen the tarnish. Rinse in clear water and wipe dry 
with a soft cloth. The old way is to moisten a soft cloth with water or alcohol, dip 
it in fine whiting, and apply to the silver. When the whiting has dried, rub it off 
with another soft cloth, and polish with chamois-skin. To cleanse chasing or orna- 
mental work, use an old tooth-brush. Rub egg-stained spoons and other badly 
tarnished articles with salt before washing them. The tarnish is not soluble, but 
with the chlorine in the salt it forms a soluble compound. Powders or cakes sold by 
silversmiths are good. Patent powders and polishes often remove some of the silver. 

HOUSEKEEPING NOTES 

Mildew in white clothes may be removed by soaking for a short time in a pail of 
water to which has been added a heaping teaspoon of chloride of lime. Then hang 
in sun. Repeat if necessary. Use CLOROX as per directions. 

When frying potatoes, etc., try chopping with empty baking powder can instead 
of knife. You will find it much more handy and quicker. 

Try greasing cake and bread pans with a small, five-cent paint brush. Keep 
grease in round tin can; cut hole in cover and insert handle of brush when not in use. 
It is then always ready for use and does not soil the hands. 

To prevent cake from burning when using new tins, butter the new tins well and 
place them in a moderate oven for fifteen minutes. After this the cake may be 
cooked in them without danger of burning. 

When ironing with gas, place a lid of the coal stove over the gas burners and 
place the irons over this. The irons will always be clean and heat much better than 
if they are put directly over the gas flame. 

To clean plaster of paris figures, use toilet soapsuds and a shaving brush. Rinse 
well. Dipping them in a strong solution of alum water will give them the appearance 
of alabaster. 

To preserve gilt frames, cover them when new with a coat of white varnish. 
All specks can be washed off with water without injury. 

To keep lemons, put them in water. Change once a week. Will keep a long 
time. 

Do not use pins in tying up laundry bundles as it not only injures the fabrics but 
is dangerous. 

Do not use towels in wiping razor blades, but have a cloth for that purpose. 

Perspiration causes silk stockings to rot, so do not allow them to dry without 
first rinsing them. 

97 



HOUSEWIFE'S FRIEND 




ALL GROCERS SELL CLOROX 

98 



CUPID'S BOOK 

REMOVAL OF STAINS 
(For White and Fast Colors Only Otherwise Consult Your Cleaner) 

Blood or Meat Juice. Saturate the stained part with kerosene oil and then dip 
in boiling water. Use CLOROX as per directions. 

Chocolate or Coffee. 1. Stretch the stained part over a bowl and pour boiling 
water through it. 2, Rub with pure glycerine, then wash in soft water. Do not use 
soap, as this will fix the stain. Use CLOROX as per directions. 

Candle Wax (colored). Place blotting paper, French chalk or white talcum 
powder on each side of stain and apply a warm iron. Brush out chalk or powder and 
remove color by sponging with alcohol or ether. 

Fruit. Use boiling water and salts of lemon, or boiling water and oxalic acid. 
Pour through stained part which is stretched over a bowl. 

Grass. 1 Soak the stain in alcohol and rub. 2. Wet with cold water and rub 
cream of tartar in well, then wash out. Use CLOROX as per directions. 

Grease. Stretch stained part over a firm pad of toweling or other absorbent 
goods and rub with any of the following applied with woolen cloth: Turpentine, 
benzine, ether or chloroform. 

Ink. Dampen in cold water, dip in a solution of boiling oxalic acid (two tea- 
spoons oxalic acid in one glass of water), rinse and wash in soap solution. 

Use CLOROX as per directions. 

Iron Rust. Moisten stain with ammonia, then apply salts of lemon or oxalic 
acid; after effervescence appears, dip in boiling water. 

Mucus (Handkerchiefs). Soak in salt water (two tablespoons to one quart of 
water), wash out and boil. Use CLOROX as per directions. 

Machine Oil. 1. Soak in cold water, then wash out with soap. 2. Soak in cold 
water and borax, then wash. 

Milk. Wash in cold water, then warm water and soap. 

Perspiration. Immerse in soap solution and set in sunshine for several hours. 

Scorch. Soft water and strong sunshine will remove a slight scorch. 

Use CLOROX as per directions. 

Shoe Stains on White Stockings. Soak in a solution of oxalic acid, then wash 
out in ammonia water. 

Tea. Cover stain with common salt, cover with lemon juice and set in sunshine. 

Use CLOROX as per directions. 

Vaseline. Place two thicknesses of blotting paper beneath stain, and moisten 
with benzine. Cover with two thicknesses of blotting paper and press with a warm 
not hot iron. Use care in working with benzine, as it is inflammable. 

Egg. Cold water, followed by hot water and soap, as in ordinary laundering. 

Ice Cream, Sponge the stains thoroughly with water, followed by agents used 
in removing grease spots. 

Iodine. Unstarched Materials: Sponge the stain with diluted ammonia. Then 
sponge with alcohol (if you can get it). Starched Materials: Soak the stains in 
diluted ammonia until they disappear, or boil the stained material for five or ten 
minutes. 

Leather. Use an abundance of soap with thorough rubbing and proceed as in 
ordinary laundering. 

Removing Gum. If the small son or daughter gets chewing gum on the best 
frock or suit, simply go over the gum with gasoline. It will crumble and can be 
washed off. 

Paints. Sponge the stains with pure turpentine. If stains are not fresh, soften 
by moistening with ammonia and sprinkling with turpentine. Roll articles up for 
fifteen minutes, then wash in warm water and soap. 

Water Color. Dip stained portion in gasoline and rub vigorously. 

Salad Dressing. Soap and lukewarm water for washable materials. 

Soot. First brush the stain, then place on absorbent powders such as Fuller's 
earth, French chalk, cornstarch, corn meal or salt; work around until they become 
soiled and brush them away. Then wash or sponge the stain. 

Tomato Stain. Wash stains carefully, then moisten with lemon juice and expose 
to sun for several days. Sponge the stain with alcohol, which removes the green 
part of the stain. This is good for stains on wool or silk. 

99 




Companionable Furniture of Wicker 

A REAL HOME depends much upon the proper selection of 
furniture and neither quantity nor expensiveness is the 
test thereof. Furniture should express beauty and comfort 
and should be part of a harmonious whole. Falstaff Wicker 
Furniture measures fully up to this standard. It is carefully 
constructed of the best materials by expert craftsmen. 

We suggest for your home Daybeds, Chaise Longues, Break- 
fast and Dining Room Sets, Library Tables, Ferneries, Bird 
Cages and various other articles for your home needs. 

Our prices are low because we manufacture under the most 
economical conditions and sell direct. 



Falstaff Company" 

MANUFACTURERS OF 

ICCOTAN, REED and RATTAN 
FURNITURE 

3103 East Fourteenth Street Oakland, Cal. 



100 



CUPID'S BOOK 



TIME 
Baking Bread, Cakes, Puddings, Etc. 

Loaf Bread 40 to 60 minutes 

Rolls, Biscuit 10 to 20 minutes 

Graham Gems 30 minutes 

Gingerbread 20 to 30 minutes 

Sponge Cake 45 to 60 minutes 

Plain Cake 30 to 40 minutes 

Fruit Cake 2 to 3 hours 

Cookies 10 to 15 minutes 

Bread Pudding 1 hour 

Rice and Tapioca 1 hour 

Indian Pudding 2 to 3 hours 

Plum Pudding 2 to 3 hours 

Custards 15 to 20i minutes 

Steamed Brown Bread 3 hours 

Steamed Puddings 1 to 3 hours 

Pie Crust about 30 minutes 

Potatoes 30 to 45 minutes 

Baked Beans 6 to 8 hours 

Braised Meat 3 to 4 hours 

Scalloped Dishes 15 to 20 minutes 

Baking Meats 

Beef, Sirloin, rare, per Ib 8 to 10 minutes 

Beef, Sirloin, well done, per Ib. .12 to 15 min. 
Beef, rolled, rib or rump, per Ib. .12 to 15 min. 
Beef, long .or short, filet. .. .20 to 30 minutes 

Mutton, rare, per Ib 10 minutes 

Mutton, well done, per Ib 15 minutes 

Lamb, well done, per Ib 15 minutes 

Veal, well done, per Ib 20 minutes 

Pork, well done, per Ib 30 minutes 

Turkey, 10 Ibs. weight 3 hours 

Chickens, 3 to 4 Ibs. weight 1 to 1% hours 

Goose, 8 Ibs 2 hours 

Tame Duck 40 to 60 minutes 

Game Duck 30 to 40 minutes 

Grouse, Pigeons 30 minutes 

Small Birds 15 to 20 minutes 

Venison, per Ib 15 minutes 

Fish, 6 to 8 Ibs.; long, thin fish 1 hour 

Fish, 4 to 6 Ibs.; thick Halibut 1 hour 

Fish, small 20 to 30 minutes 

Freezing 
Ice Cream 30 minutes 



TABLE 

Doughnuts, Fritters 3 to 5 minutes 

Bacon, Small Fish, Potatoes. .2 to 5 minutes 
Breaded Chops and Fish 5 to 8 minutes 

Broiling 

Steak, 1 inch thick 4 minutes 

Steak, 1% inch thick 6 minutes 

Small, thin Fish 5 to 8 minutes 

Thick Fish 12 to 15 minutes 

Chops broiled in paper 8 to 10 minutes 

Chickens 20 minutes 

Liver, Tripe, Bacon 3 to 8 minutes 

Boiling 

Coffee 3 to 5 minutes 

Tea, steep without boiling 5 minutes 

Corn Meal 3 hours 

Hominy, fine l hour 

Oatmeal, rolled 30 minutes 

Oatmeal, coarse, steamed 3 hours 

Frying 

Croquettes, Fish Balls 1 minute 

Rice, steamed 45 to 60 minutes 

Rice, boiled 15 to 20 minutes 

Wheat Granules 20 to 30 minutes 

Eggs, soft boiled 3 to 6 minutes 

Eggs, hard boiled 15 to 20 minutes 

Fish, long, whole, per Ib 6 to 10 minutes 

Fish, cubical, per Ib 15 minutes 

Clams, Oysters 3 to 5 minutes 

Beef, corned and a la mode 3 to 5 hours 

Soup Stock 3 to 6 hours 

Veal, Mutton 2 to 3 hours 

Tongue 3 to 4 hours 

Potted Pigeons 2 hours 

Ham 5 hours 

Sweetbreads 20 to 30 minutes 

Sweet Corn 5 to 8 minutes 

Asparagus, Tomatoes, Peas. .15 to 20 minutes 
Macaroni, Potatoes, Spinach, Squash, Cel- 
ery, Cauliflower, Greens. . .20 to 30 minutes 

Cabbage, Beets, young 30 to 45 minutes 

Parsnips, Turnips 30 to 45 minutes 

Carrots, Onions, Salsify 30 to 60 minutes 

Beans, string and shelled 1 to 2 hours 

Puddings, 1 quart, steamed 3 hours 

Puddings, small 1 hour 



WEIGHTS AND MEASURES 



1 cup, medium size % pt. or *4 Ib. 

4 cups, medium size, or flour weigh....! Ib. 

1 pint flour weighs % Ib. 

1 pint white sugar weighs 1 Ib. 



2 tablespoons of liquid weigh 1 oz. 

8 teaspoons of liquid weigh 1 oz. 

1 gill of liquid weighs 4 ozs. 

1 pint of liquid weighs 16 ozs. 



How to Measure an Ounce 

Housekeepers are often confused by the mingling of weights and measures in a recipe, 
therefore an accurate schedule is a good thing to have around. The following of the most 
generally used articles will be found correct: 



1 oz. granulated sugar equals 2 level tea- 
spoons. 

1 oz. flour, 4 level teaspoons. 
1 oz. butter, 2 level teaspoons. 
1 oz. ground coffee, 5 level tablespoons. 
1 oz. cornstarch, 3 level tablespoons. 
1 oz. thyme, 8 level tablespoons. 
1 .oz. grated chocolate, 3 level tablespoons. 
1 oz. pepper, 4 level tablespoons. 



1 oz. salt, 2 level tablespoons. 

1 oz. mustard, 4 level tablespoons. 

1 oz. cloves, 4 level tablespoons. 

1 oz. cinnamon, 4% level tablespoons. 

1 oz. mace, 4 level tablespoons. 

1 oz. curry, 4 level tablespoons. 

1 oz. chopped suet, % of a cup. 

1 oz. olive oil, 2 tablespoons. 



Table of Measures 
1 solid 



cup butter, granulated sugar, milk, 

chopped meat equals % lb. 

2 cups flour equals % lb. 

9 large eggs equals 1 lb. 



60 drops equals 1 teaspoon 

3 teaspoons equals 1 tablespoon 

4 tablespoons equals % cup 

1 cup equals % pint 

1 round tablespoon butter equals 1 oz. 

Table of Proportions 

1 cup liquid, 3 cups flour for bread. % teaspoon salt to 1 quart custard. 



1 cup liquid, 2 cups flour for muffins. 
1 cup liquid, 1 cup flour for batters. 
1 teaspoon soda to 1 pint sour milk. 
1 teaspoon soda to 1 cup molasses. 



1 teaspoon salt to 1 quart water. 
% teaspoon salt is a pinch. 
^4 square inch pepper is a shake. 



Remember that all cup and spoon measures mean full, except where fractions are given. 

101 



"Send it 




to the 
jv Laundry 



BRIDES, NOTICE 

We Have Five Separate Departments in our Laundry for 
Your Convenience and Economy 

IN FAMILY LAUNDRY SERVICE 

(No. 1) WET WASH DEPARTMENT 

In this department we wash 17 Ibs. for 75c, each additional pound 4z. 
Flat pieces ironed if desired at following prices: Spreads or table- 
cloths, 7c each; sheets, slips, rollers, 2c each; towels, napkins, rags, 
Ic each. 

(No. 2) DRY WASH DEPARTMENT 

In this department all flat pieces are washed and ironed ready to 
use. Other pieces are dried, ready to dampen and starch at your 
convenience. The minimum charge is 11 Ibs. for 90c; each addi- 
tional pound 8c. 

( No. 3 ) ROUGH DRY DEPA R TMEN T 

In this department we wash and starch the pieces that have to be 
starched, and dry them ready to be dampened and ironed at home, 
for lOc per pound. We iron all flat pieces such as spreads, table- 
cloths, sheets, slips, towels, napkins, handkerchiefs and rags. The 
rough dry receives that same careful attention as the finished work. 
A trial will convince you. Minimum charge, $1.00. 

(No. 4) FINISHED WORK DEPARTMENT 

In this department everything is washed and ironed and delivered 
ready to use, such as ladies' and gents' fancy and silk wearing ap- 
parel, blankets, doilies and comforters. We also wash curtains at 
owner's risk. We darn stockings, sew on buttons and do some mend- 
ing free. 

(No. 5) BLANKET DEPARTMENT 

We have installed an up-to-date machine for cleaning and renovating 
cotton and wool blankets. We return blankets as clean and fluffy 
as when they were new. We also wash curtains at owner's risk. A 
trial will convince you. 
(We make our service to fit your income.) You take as much as 

you can afford to buy. We call and deliver in Oakland, Berkeley and 

Alameda. Give us a trial. 

"Aiming to please is our motto" 

NEW METHOD LAUNDRY COMPANY 

Phone Piedmont 97 



102 



CUPID'S BOOK 

DO YOU KNOW 

That a small piece of butter added to the water prevents vegetables, macaroni or 
rice from boiling over? 

That the water from macaroni or rice alter they have been cooked should be 
saved for soup and gravies? 

That a teaspoon of vinegar added to boiled meat, while cooking, makes the meat 
tender? 

That after peeling onions if celery salt is rubbed over the hands before washing 
the odor will disappear? 

That if you add a pinch of salt to ground coffee before boiling it will improve 
the flavor? 

That if kid gloves are rubbed gently with bread crumbs after each time they are 
worn they will remain clean much longer than otherwise? 

That a poultice made of tobacco and warm water, put between two cloths and 
placed over the breast and pit of the stomach will relieve convulsions when nothing 
else will? It will do no harm. 

That any one who has aching feet, if the feet are placed in kerosene for about ten 
minutes each day will receive the greatest relief? If used regularly for a month is 
said to cure all corns and callous places on the feet. Will not blister or do any injury. 

That to relieve burns get a small bottle of picric acid and with a feather paint the 
burned or scalded parts, allowing it to dry? In a few minutes all the pain will be 
gone and you will never feel it again. Where the burns are very severe more than 
one application is sometimes necessary. This- is an invaluable remedy, specially 
where there are children in the home, for they are getting burned continually. 

That there is nothing better than sulphur tea for the hair? It cures handruff, 
promotes the growth, makes the hair soft and glossy and is very good to keep the 
hair from turning gray. 

That the whitish stain left on a mahogany table by a jug of boiling water or a 
very hot dish may be removed by rubbing in oil and afterward pouring a little spirits 
of wine on the spot and rubbing it dry with a cloth? 

That you should wash your weathered oak woodwork and furniture with milk? 

That to rid your home of ants mix thoroughly two parts borax with one part 
powdered sugar and put around where the ants come? For two or three days the ants 
will come in swarms, but after that they will disappear. Leave the powder around 
for a week or two and you will never be bothered again with ants. 

That if food becomes slightly burned in cooking, set the saucepan in cold water 
and it will take away burned taste? 

That silk stockings should be washed in water which is only warm, not hot? A 
soap solution is better for them than rubbing the soap itself on. Squeeze them out; 
don't wring them. 

How to set colors in cotton materials? Test materials by allowing to stand in 
cold water to see if material bleeds. If so, for browns, blacks and pink, use two cups 
salt to one gallon of water. For blues use one-half cup of vinegar to one gallon of 
water. For lavenders one tablespoon of sugar of lead (poison) to one gallon of 
water. Allow to stand in solution for an hour. The water should be cold. Putting 
a little salt in the last rinsing water will tend to bring out the color in cotton 
materials. 

That you can brighten your home, furniture, wickerware, chairs, floors, etc., with 
FULLER'S PAINTS and VARNISHES? 

That CLOROX is the housewife's FRIEND? 



103 



CUPID'S BOOK 

FIRST WEDDING IN AMERICA 

In 1609, at Jamestown, Virginia, the first Christian marriage ceremony in 
America was performed according to English rites, when Anne Burras became Mrs. 
John Leyden. This was eleven years before Mary Chilton according to some his- 
torians arrived on the Mayflower and won the distinction of being the first person 
to set foot on Plymouth Rock. 



IT IS NOT ALWAYS EASY 

To apologize, To be considerate, 

To begin over, To keep on trying, 

To admit error, To think and then act, 

To be unselfish, To profit by mistakes, 

To take advice, To forgive and forget, 

To be charitable, To shoulder a deserved blame. 

BUT IT ALWAYS PAYS. 



IT'S TIME TO MOVE 

if you are living on Spendthrift Street. 

if you are still dwelling in Deep-in-Debt Row. 

if you are sojourning in Live-Beyond- Your-Means Mansion. 

if you are renting quarters on Keep-Up-Appearances Avenue. 

if you are hopelessly loitering in Can't-Save Anything Apartment. 



HOUSEHOLD FINANCE 

Some women are saving in the little things and forget the bigger ones. They 
fail to grasp their life and their profession of housekeeping as a whole. It is equally 
necessary to hold fast to the dollars as the pennies. How do you test out in that line? 

Do you: 

Budget your income, and do you make yourself stick to your budget? 
Pay your bills by bank checks? 
Save something every week? 

Read carefully the advertisements of special sales in your daily papers and 
thoughtfully anticipate your needs, your real needs? 
Pay cash and carry? 

Burn fifty cents worth of gasoline to save five cents? 
Check over every bill carefully? 
File your receipts? 

Have you a table in your house of the legal weights per bushel of foodstuffs in 
your state? 

Watch the markets on your household staples and buy accordingly? 

Observe the weights of the contents on all your cans and packages and read 
their guaranties? 

104 



CUPID'S BOOK 
FLAKED WHEAT MIXTURES 

Note: All measurements are level and flour is sifted once before measuring. 
One-half pint measuring cup is used. 

SPERRY FLAKED WHEAT CRISPS 

1/3 Cup Butter 1/2 Teaspoon Salt 

'/ 4 Cup Sugar 1 Cup Sperry Flaked Wheat 

!4 Cup Milk 1 Teaspoon Vanilla 

Cream butter well; add sugar gradually, milk, Sperry Flaked Wheat and salt; 
add enough Sperry Drifted Snow Flour to roll. Roll as thin as possible; cut in 
strips about 4 inches long by 1 inch wide and bake in a slow oven until brown 
and crisp. 

SPERRY FLAKED WHEAT COOKIES 
!/ 2 Cup Shortening !4 Teaspoon Soda 

1 Cup Brown Sugar 1 Teaspoon Baking Powder 

1 Egg 11/2 Cups Sperry Drifted Snow Flour 

1/3 Cup Milk 11/2 Cups Sperry Flaked Wheat 

1 Teaspoon Vanilla 1 Cup Cocoanut 

!/i Teaspoon Salt 

Cream shortening well; add sugar gradually, constantly stirring; add egg, well 
beaten, milk, Sperry Flaked Wheat, cocoanut and vanilla. Mix and sift dry ingre- 
dients and add to first mixture. Drop from tip of spoon on a well-greased pan, 
about 3 inches apart, and bake in a moderate oven about 15 minutes. 
SPERRY FLAKED WHEAT FRIED 

2 Cups Sperry Flaked Wheat y* Teaspoon Salt 

(cooked) 1 Tablespoon Cold Water 

1 Egg Bread or Cracker Crumbs 

Mould Sperry Flaked Wheat in a wet bread pan; when cold cut in 1-inch slices; 
beat egg; add cold water; dip Sperry Flaked Wheat slices in crumbs, then in egg, then 
in crumbs again. Fry in deep fat or saute in melted shortening. This is nice as ! a 
garnish for meat or served as a sweet course with jelly. 



GERMEA MIXTURES 

Note: All measurements are level. One-half pint measuring cup is used. 

SPERRY GERMEA PUDDING 

2 Cups Milk 2 Tablespoons Melted Butter 

!/ 2 Cup Sperry Germea 1 Cup Grated Pineapple 

'/ 2 Cup Sugar 1 Egg 

1 Teaspoon Salt 1 Inch Piece Stick Cinnamon 

Put cinnamon in milk and allow to become hot, then remove cinnamon; add 
Sperry Germea to hot milk, and when boiling add sugar, salt and butter; cook about 
30 minutes, then add pineapple and cook until thick. Add well-beaten egg, cook 
until egg is set. Serve hot or cold with cream or a pudding sauce. 

SPERRY GERMEA SPANISH 

1!/ 2 Cups Sperry Germea (cooked) 6 Olives, chopped fine 

'/a Can Corn Cayenne Pepper to taste 

1 Tablespoon Butter 1 Green Pepper, chopped fine 
1 Teaspoon Salt 1 Can Tomato Sauce 

2 Onions, chopped fine 

Mix all ingredients, put in casserole, cover and bake in medium oven 30 minutes, 
or put together and heat in a double boiler. 

SPERRY GERMEA CHARLOTTE 

2 Cups Milk >/2 Cup Sugar 

2 Tablespoons Sperry Germea !/ 2 Cup Grated Pineapple 

1 Egg, beaten separately 1 Teaspoon Vanilla 

Scald milk; add Sperry Germea and cook in a double boiler 15 minutes; add 
beaten egg yolk and sugar; cook until thick; remove from fire and fold in the stiffly 
beaten white of egg; chill, then add fruit and vanilla. Serve in individual dishes and 
garnish with whipped cream. 

When cooking cereals, measure the right amount of boiling water and put in 
the upper part of a double boiler. Allow % teaspoon of salt to each % pint measur- 
ing cup of water. When water is rapidly boiling, with a fork stir in the required 
amount of cereal, adding it very slowly, so that the liquid does not stop boiling, for 
if this happens the cereal is liable to fall to the bottom of the boiler and the grains 
cling together, causing lumps. Cook for a few minutes directly over the flame, 
then finish in the double boiler, allowing the cereal td cook the length of time 
called for on the package. Cereal is improved by long cooking. 

105 



cTWEMORANDUM 



106 



(^MEMORANDUM 



107 



Into anfc <fa0m 



* 



Do you like this little book? 

Won't it help you over some of 
the Rough Places in the beginning 
of Housekeeping? 

Is the answer yes? 

Then, there is just one way to 
show your appreciation and that is 
to patronize the Advertisers who 
have made it possible for us to pre- 
sent it, and kindly mention 



CUPID'S BOOK 

Thanking you in advance, we are, 
Sincerely yours, 

. E. F. KIESSLING & SON 

PUBLISHERS 
Oakland, California 



108 




My Mother has her 
Pictures and Mirrors Framed 



at 



Saake's 

Cor. 16th and Clay Sts. 
Oakland 




Furnish Your Own Home 

Whether it be an apartment or a house, make it a 
real home by furnishing it yourselves. An artistic 
home need not be expensive nor furnishing it a 
hardship if you select from Br'euner's vast stocks 
and use Breuner's Easy Pay Plan. Ask about it ! 

FURNITURE FLOOR COVERINGS 

DRAPERIES PHONOGRAPHS 

and HOUSEHOLD GOODS 

SOLD ON EASY TERMS 



"Everything 
for the 
Home" 




Clay at 15th St., Oakland 



