The Hampton Bulletin February Vol. 1 4, No. 1 

PRACTICAL PATRIOTIC 

RECIPES 

THE HAMPTON NORMAL AND 
AGRICULTURAL INSTITUTE 




1918 



Issued in February, March, April, May, October, and December by 
The Hampton Normal and Agricultural Institute 

Entered as second-class matter May 23, 1 9 1 7 at the Post Office at 
Hampton, Virginia, under the act of August 24, 1912 



Bbuogrfic 



Gift 

T T19tlttttt©& 












PRACTICAL PATRIOTIC RECIPES 

BY EDITH CHURCH 
Dietitian at Hampton Institute 

AND BERTINA A. LEETE 
In charge Domestic Science Department, Hampton Institute 

In the present World Crisis every man, woman, and child 
wants to do everything possible to help win the War. Some- 
times what one person can do seems too small to attempt, but 
when we realize that there are about twenty million families in 
the United States, and that if each one saved only a very little 
meat or wheat or fat or sugar each day, the amount saved 
would be enormous, then we are ready to do what we can. 

In many cases the ways in which we save will be those 
which our grandmothers practised — drying fruits and vege- 
tables, saving the stale bread to use in made dishes, sweeten- 
ing our food with honey or syrup instead of sugar, gathering 
all the wild fruits and nuts, and boiling for " salad " some of 
the things we have been accustomed to think of as weeds, 
such as purslane, sorrel, pig weed, etc. 

In some localities one food is abundant, in others another 
kind is more available. Use the food you find most plentiful 
and plan to raise a few new crops another year, or to raise 
more of the things you know will do well on your land. 

In this leaflet recipes are given for several kinds of bread, 
both yeast and quick breads. These will save wheat. We 
must also save wheat by eating less bread and more vege- 
tables and fruit. In place of meat, use more cheese, milk, 
nuts, peas, beans, fish, rabbits, and other game. 

The young children, from one to twelve years, must have 
milk and butter to insure proper materials for growth. A 
quart of milk a day for each child is a good standard. For 
older people butter for table use, and substitutes for butter for 
cooking, are more patriotic now. 

When trying new dishes, please remember that each dish 



should be judged on its own merits rather than by comparison 
with other foods. For instance, bread made with oatmeal will 
not taste nor look like wheat bread, but it is good in itself, in 
the same way that corn bread has its own particular flavor and 
texture. 

Note: All measurements are level. 

ABBREVIATIONS 

c. equals cupful qt. equals quart 

tb. " tablespoonful pt. " pint 

t. " teaspoonful lb. " pound 

WHOLE-WHEAT BREAD 

2 c. scalded milk 

i^ c. sugar or y$ q. molasses 

i y 2 t. salt 

% yeast cake, softened in ^ c. water 

3 ^ c. whole wheat flour 
White flour enough to knead 

Note: In all recipes for yeast bread, I cupful liquid yeast 
or "leaven " may be used in place of I yeast cake. Use less 
liquid in the bread. 

GRAHAM BREAD 

Make like whole-wheat bread; water and a little shorten- 
ing, about 2 tablespoonfuls, may be used in place of milk. 

RYE BREAD 

Make like whole-wheat bread, using one-half rye flour and 
one-half wheat flour. 

OATMEAL BREAD 

i c. rolled oats lj4 tb. shortening . 

2 c. boiling water }4 yeast cake softened in 

Y-2, c. molasses % c. water 

i t. salt flour to knead 

Pour boiling water over rolled oats and shortening ; allow 

to cool. Add other materials and mix according to usual 

method. Bake longer than wheat bread. 



RICE YEAST BREAD 
From "Ten Lessons on Food Conservation" 

y 2 c. milk and water, or water iy 2 t. salt 

2 tb. sugar or syrup 7 c. boiled rice 

4 tb. shortening 8 c. flour 

y 2 yeast cake softened in y c. lukewarm water 
Mix in ordinary manner. The dough will be very stiff at 
first, but much thinner after first rising. Probably you will 
have better results if you make a sponge with the rice, liquid, 
and a part of the flour, first, and, when risen, add the remain- 
ing ingredients. 

VICTORY PENNY BUNS 

Good for school lunches, or for sales or entertainments. 
They can be sold for a penny each. 

This recipe makes about 72 buns, weighing 1 and y 2 
ounces each. 

1 qt. water 1 c. rice flour or corn 

2 tb. salt flour or barley flour 

2 lb. ( about 8 c.) wheat flour 1 lb. raisins 

3 c. rye flour 1 tb. vegetable oil 
5 yeast cakes 1 or 2 t. cinnamon 

Make a sponge with 1 pt. of the water, 1 y lb. of the wheat 
flour and the yeast. When risen, add the remaining ingredi- 
ents, let rise, shape, let rise again, and bake. 

HAMPTON CORN BREAD 

2 c. bread flour 1 yeast cake 

4 c. white meal 2 t. salt 

$y c. warm water 2 tb. melted shortening 

1 tb. corn sugar or syrup 

Make a sponge of the flour and 1 c. of the water, add 
yeast cake dissolved in y c. water. Let stand until light, 
which should be within an hour. 

Add the remaining ingredients. Mix thoroughly. The 
mixture should be a little too soft to shape into loaves. Spread 
in shallow baking pan to a depth of one inch. Let rise an 
hour and bake thirty minutes in hot oven. Notice that the 
bread is put into the baking pans as soon as meal is added to 
the sponge, without waiting for it to become light. 



SWEET-POTATO BREAD 
From " Baker's Review " 

i lb. sweet potatoes 2 lbs. wheat flour 

% lb. peanut butter 1 qt. water or milk 

i l / 2 lbs. rye flour 1 tb. salt 

1 yeast cake 
Boil the sweet potatoes and rub them through a sieve ; 
add the water or milk, the peanut butter and salt, and, when 
lukewarm, the yeast and flour. 

POTATO YEAST BREAD 
From " Ten Lessons on Food Conservation " 

y 2 c. milk and water, or water 
2 tb. sugar or syrup 

4 tb. shortening i}4 t. salt 

4 c. boiled, mashed potatoes 8 c. flour 
y 2 yeast cake softened in y c. lukewarm water 
Make like Rice Bread. 

CORN-MEAL AND WHEAT BREAD 

\]/ 2 c. milk, water, or mixture of the two 

y 2 cake compressed yeast or use y> c. less of the 

liquid and y 2 c. liquid yeast 
y 2 t. salt 1 tb. sugar or syrup 

1 tb. shortening, if desired 
1 c. meal 2 c. wheat flour 

Pour i% c. of the water over the meal, salt, sugar, and 
shortening, if used; heat the mixture gradually to the boiling 
point or nearly to it; cook twenty minutes. This can be done 
best in a double boiler; the water is sufficient only to soften 
the meal a little. Allow the meal to cool to about room tem- 
perature, add the flour, and the yeast mixed with the rest of 
the water, or the y 2 c. of liquid yeast. Knead thoroughly, let 
rise until double its bulk, make into a loaf, let " rise in pan, 
bake 45 to 50 minutes. 

Note: When corn is added, less time is needed for the 
rising. 



THIRD BREAD 

i c. white flour i c. milk, scalded and cooled 

i c. rye flour or rye meal I t. salt 
i c. corn meal i tb. sugar or syrup 

y 2 c. yeast, or y 2 yeast cake in % c. lukewarm water. 
The dough should be stiff enough to be shaped. Add more 
flour or more liquid if needed. Let it rise, shape, let rise and 
bake. 

Note: Any bread containing a substitute for wheat should 
always be worked in one direction to make a finer grain. 

BREAD-CRUMB BREAD 

1 qt. lukewarm water 4 c. fine bread crumbs (not dry) 

4 t. salt 1 or 2 yeast cakes 

2 tb. molasses 8 c. flour 

Soften the yeast in % c. of water. Soak the bread 
crumbs in the rest of the water. When crumbs are soft, 
mash thoroughly, add salt, molasses, yeast, and flour enough 
to make a stiff dough. Proceed like ordinary bread. 

BEAN BREAD 

1 qt. water 

1 c. beans 

5 t. salt 

2 tb. molasses' 

1 or 2 yeast cakes, softened in y c. lukewarm water 

8 c. flour 

Soak the beans over night. Drain off this water and 
cook the beans in the 1 qt. of water until soft. Put through 
a potato ricer, or a sieve, cool, and when lukewarm add other 
ingredients and make and bake like ordinary bread. 

OATMEAL MUFFINS 
From " Ten Lessons on Food Conservation " 

yi c. milk \ x / 2 c. flour 

1 c. cooked oatmeal or rolled oats 2 tb. sugar or syrup 

1 egg y t. salt 

2 tb. shortening, melted 4 t. baking powder 
Cook oatmeal, using one part oatmeal to two parts water. 

A larger proportion of water makes gummy muffins. Mix' milk, 
oatmeal, egg, and melted shortening. Add dry ingredients 
after sifting them together. Bake 25 to 30 minutes. This 
makes 10 to 12 muffins. 



GRAHAM MUFFINS 



2 c. Graham flour y 2 t. salt 

3 tb. sugar or syrup i t. soda 

iy 2 c. sour milk 
Makes about 12 muffins 



BUCKWHEAT MUFFINS 

% c. sugar or syrup 1 c. buckwheat flour 

1 egg y 2 c. bread flour 

3 tb. butter 1 y 2 t. baking powder 

1 c. milk y 2 t. salt 

STEAMED BOSTON BROWN BREAD 
From Greer's " Textbook of Cooking " 

I c. rye meal or rye flour 1 t. baking soda 
1 c. corn meal 3 t. baking powder 

1 c. Graham flour y 2 c. molasses 

24 t. salt 2 c. sour milk 

Mix thoroughly, turn at once into a greased mold, add a 
greased cover or tie a greased paper over the top. Steam at 
least 4 hours, if all in one loaf. Remove from mold and dry 
in the oven a few minutes. 

BREAD BATTER CAKES 
From Greer's "Textbook of Cooking'* 

iy c. stale bread crumbs 2 eggs 

\y 2 c. hot milk y 2 c. flour 

3 tb. shortening y 2 t. salt 
3 t. baking powder 

GRAHAM NUT BREAD 

i t. baking soda 2 c. Graham flour 

x /i c. sugar y 2 c. molasses 

1 t. salt 2 c. sour milk 

1 c. white flour 1 c. walnut meats 

Bake in a moderate oven about 1 hour. 



CORN-AND RICE MUFFINS 

*/i c. hot milk 
i c. cooked rice 
( Work with a fork to separate the grains ) 
Add x /z c. corn meal 
2 tb. shortening 
y 2 t. salt 

i tb. brown sugar or molasses 
Let cool, then add ^ c. flour and 3 t. baking powder. 

CORNMEAL AND RAISIN MUFFINS 

1 c. cornmeal 1 x /z c. hot milk 

1 tb. sugar or syrup y 2 c seeded raisins 

1 t. salt 1 c. flour 

2 tb. butter 4 t. baking powder 

1 egg, well beaten 
Pour the hot milk on the meal, sugar, salt, and butter ; 
cool, add raisins, flour, baking powder, and egg. 

POTATO BISCUIT 

2 c. hot mashed potatoes 

2 t. salt 

2 tb. butter, or other shortening 

1 t. soda 

2 c. sour milk 

3 c. rye flour 

2 c. white flour, or enough to make a soft dough 
Cut out ; let stand 1 hour ; bake about 15 minutes. 

FARINA SPOON BREAD 

2 c. cooked farina (or any fine cereal ) 
2 eggs, beaten separately 
1 c. milk 

1 c. white corn meal 

2 t. baking powder 
y 2 t. salt 

CORN-FLOUR MUFFINS 

1 y 2 c corn flour or 1 egg 

1 c. corn flour and 2 t. baking powder 

y 2 c. wheat flour 1 tb. melted butter 

I t. salt V\ to 1 c. milk 



10 



BRAN BREAD 

i ?4 c. flour 3/i c. bran 

iy t. baking powder y c. molasses 

y t. baking soda \y 2 c. milk 

Va t. salt 3 eggs 

BRAN BREAD WITH SOUR MILK 

3 c. bran 2 t. soda 

3 c. white flour \y 2 t. salt 

Y% c. molasses ^ c. sugar 
3 c. sour milk 



FRUIT BRAN MUFFINS 

i 

From Miss Farmer 

i egg y> c. Graham or entire wheat flour 

2 tb. molasses y t. salt 

i c. milk 2 t. baking powder 

i c. bran y c. raisins 

y c. nut meats, if desired 

PEANUT BISCUIT 

i c. corn meal 2 t. salt 

i c. parched peanuts, crushed 4 t. baking powder 
2 c. flour 3 tb. shortening 

About iy c. liquid (milk, water, or rice water) 

GINGERBREAD 

y c. molasses 1}^ t. soda 

y, c. sugar 2 t. ginger 

y, c. melted shortening 1 t. salt 

1 c. hot water 2^2 c. flour 

1 c. white corn meal 

This recipe makes a good spice cake if the ginger is 
omitted and in place of it ground spices are added. For many 
tastes 1 t. cinnamon, y 2 t. nutmeg, and y t. cloves would be 
a good combination . 



11 



SCORE CARD FOR BREAD 

Outside : Color 

Shade 4 

Evenness 3 

Surface 6 

Shape 7 

Inside : Thoroughness of baking 20 

Appearance of crumb 

Quality 8 

Fineness 4 

Evenness 3 

Color 5 

Taste 

Sweetness 25 

Flavor 15 



100 
Shade — A beautiful golden brown 
Evenness — Entire surface same shade 
Surface — Smooth, free from wrinkles ; sides of loaves not 

broken just above top of pan, showing that crust was 

formed too soon 
Shape — Regular, and in such proportions that center will be 

thoroughly baked 
Thoroughness of baking — It should spring back to original 

shape after compression 
Quality — Velvety, waxy feeling ; not horny 
Fineness — Holes about size of head of common pin 
Evenness — All holes about same size from crust to crust and 

side to side 
Color — Creamy white 

Sweetness — Refers to natural sweetness of sound wheat ber- 
ries as opposed to acid or other bad taste generated by 

bad yeast or over-fermentation 
Flavor — Refers to amount of sweetness or salt or something 

added to loaf to produce pleasurable sensation 



12 

MEAT SAVERS 
PEANUT SOUP 

i pt. shelled peanuts, chopped fine 

i pt. water i qt. milk 

i small onion, grated 

3 tb. butter or butter substitute 

i tb. corn starch 

salt and pepper as needed 
Boil the peanuts in the water twenty minutes, or for five 
minutes if roasted nuts are used. Add milk, thickening, and 
seasoning. 

PEANUT-TOMATO SOUP 

2 c. water (if possible use water in which hominy 

or rice was cooked ) 
2 c. strained tomatoes 4 tb. peanut butter 
1 or 2 tb. corn starch 
(according to the consistency desired) 
1 t. salt y t. pepper 



PEANUT PUDDING 

2 c. stale bread crumbs or 1 c. of dried crumbs 
1 qt. scalded milk y, c. sugar 

1 egg y c. peanut butter 1 t. salt 

Soften the peanut butter with a little of the hot milk. 
Soak the bread crumbs in the remainder of the milk. Add 
the egg, beaten, with the sugar and salt, then the peanut 
butter. Mix thoroughly and bake about one-half hour in 
a moderate oven. 

PEANUT-BUTTER CHOPS 

y c. peanut butter y, t. celery salt 

1 c. hot cooked rice or hominy 3 tb. tomato catsup 
y? c. soft bread crumbs 1 egg 

y t. salt a little onion juice 

Mix and shape in the form of chops; put on a greased pan. 

Bake about 15 or 20 minutes, or put the mixture in a deep 

pan and bake in a loaf. 



13 



PEANUT LOAF 



i c. peanuts, chopped 
i c. dry bread crumbs 
2 tb. butter or butter substitute 
Yo. t. salt, a very little red pepper 
i egg milk to make moist 
Mix, pack in a baking dish, and bake. 

BAKED RICE AND NUTS 

]/ 2 c. rice, washed I y 2 c. water 

y 2 c. milk % t. salt 

y 2 c. broken nut meats, (any kind) 
Mix in a baking dish and bake until rice is soft. 

HAMPTON BAKED BEANS 

I qt. navy beans y lb. pork 

salt to taste 

Pick over beans, wash carefully, and put to soak in cold 
water over night or several hours. Drain. Put beans and 
pork over fire with plenty of water to cover. Cook slowly un- 
til soft, no definite time can be given as the beans differ in 
time required. It may be from one to four hours. When 
the beans are soft put in a deep baking pan and bake slowly at 
least four hours. Stir occasionally and add more water as 
needed. About an hour before serving add y cup cottolene, 
or other fat, and return to oven to brown. 

If sweetened beans are preferred add y c. syrup when 
beans are first put in. oven. 

BLACK-EYED PEAS AND CHEESE 

i tb. shortening 
i tb. finely chopped onion 
i tb. finely chopped peppers 
2 c. cooked peas, put through sieve 
y 2 c. pressed down, grated cheese 
Salt, pepper, and a little lemon juice or vinegar, if desired. 
If too stiff, moisten with milk. This may be used as a 
sandwich filling or the lemon juice or vinegar may be omitted 
and the mixture baked in a loaf. 



14 

BAKED OATMEAL AND NUTS 

From United States Food Leaflet, No. 6 

2 c. cooked oatmeal I t. vinegar 

i c. crushed nuts y 2 t. pepper 

\y 2 c. milk iy 2 t. salt 

Mix together and bake in a greased pan 1 5 minutes. 

TAMALE PIE 

From United States Food Leaflet, No. 2 
2 c. corn meal 1 tb. fat 

6 c. water 1 onion 

iy 2 t. salt 2 c. tomatoes 

1 lb. beef, chopped or ground fine 
Make a mush of the meal, salt, and water. Cook 45 min- 
utes. Brown onion in fat, add meat, and stir until red color dis- 
appears. Add salt, pepper, and tomato. A sweet pepper is 
an addition. Grease baking dish, put in a layer of mush, add 
seasoned meat, and cover it with mush. Bake y 2 hour. If 
any is left over, it may be packed in a deep pan and when cold 
sliced and fried. 

DRIED PEAS WITH RICE AND TOMATOES 
From United States Food Leaflet, No. 3 

iy 2 c. cooked rice 1 tb. salt 

2 c. dried peas }/ 2 t. pepper 

6 onions 2 c. tomatoes, fresh or canned 

Soak peas over night in two quarts of water. Cook until 
tender in water in which they were soaked. Add rice, onions, 
tomatoes, and seasoning, and cook about* 20 minutes. 

SAVORY HOMINY 

To 1 qt. cooked hominy (coarse) add 1 c. meat scraps 
finely ground. Moisten with gravy, stock, or tomato juice. 
Spread in a baking pan. Sprinkle with buttered crumbs and 
brown in oven. 

HOMINY WITH CHEESE 

i qt. cooked pearl hominy 2 tb. butter 
1 pt. milk y 2 c. cheese 

3 tb. flour 1 t. salt 

Make a sauce of the milk, flour, and butter. When it 
thickens add cheese cut fine. Remove from the fire and stir 



15 

carefully while the cheese melts. Too much heat will make 
it curdle. Mix with the hominy, that has been heated before 
mixing and serve at once, or if desired sprinkle with buttered 
crumbs and bake just enough to brown crumbs. 

BAKED HOMINY GRITS 

i c. hominy \y 2 t. salt 

i qt. milk 2 eggs 

Heat milk in double-boiler. When hot add hominy that 
has been washed and soaked in cold water. Stir for a few min- 
utes, then let cook for two hours. Take from the fire and when 
lukewarm add eggs well beaten and salt, mix and beat all to- 
gether. Turn into buttered baking dish and bake thirty min- 
utes. Serve hot. 

BAKED PEARL HOMINY 

Take any amount of cooked hominy required for a meal 
and spread in a buttered baking dish to a depth of about one 
inch. Sprinkle with a layer of buttered crumbs, then another 
layer of hominy with crumbs over top of dish. Add milk to 
nearly cover the hominy. Bake half an hour. 

gnocchi 

1 pt. milk y % lb. cheese 

% c. flour 24 Pt- one-inch blocks 

of left-over cereal, such as fine hominy, cream of 
wheat, or farina. 
Put the blocks of cereal in a baking dish, add the sauce to 
which the grated cheese has been added, and bake. 

CHEESE CUSTARD 

%. lb. cheese, grated 1 egg 

2 c. milk 1 tb. fat 

}i t. salt y t. mustard 

Cubes of stale bread to partly fill baking dish 
Bake in a moderate oven until it gives custard test. 

CHEESE PUDDING 

Use same ingredients as in Cheese Custard but break the 
bread in pieces, have about 1 c, and soak in the milk. Add 
cheese, egg, etc., and bake. 



16 



CORN CHOWDER 



LIBRARY OF CONGRESS 



1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 :: I ' 1 1 p 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 ' 1 1 1 ! : : | m j | ■ | , [ 
014 233 157 3 



i qt. fresh corn pulp, or canned corn or 

iyi c. dried corn, soaked 2 to 4 hours in 

3 c. cold water, and cooked about 1 hour 

1 qt. sliced potatoes, parboiled 

y A lb. fat salt pork or drippings 

y 2 t. salt 

1 pt. milk 

1 pt. water • 

1 onion, sliced 

6 or more crackers 

pepper, as needed 
Cut the pork in half-inch cubes and try out the fat. Add 
onion to fat and cook until tender. Add 1 pt. water to onion 
and fat, and simmer. When potatoes are parboiled, drain, and 
pour over them the strained water from the onion. Add corn 
and simmer until vegetables are tender. Add milk and sea- 
sonings. Add crackers just as the chowder is put in the serv- 
ing dish. 

hoppin' JOHN 

1 c. cowpeas % lb. bacon 

1 c. rice 1 large onion 

salt and pepper, as needed 
Cook the peas and rice separately. Cook the onion in the 
bacon fat. Add rice and peas and cook until dry. Add sea- 
soning. 

TOMATO CHOWDER 

1 can tomatoes 

1 c. corn 

1 c. cooked Lima beans 

1 c. diced white potatoes 

% lb. fat salt pork or drippings 

2 small onions 

enough stock or water to make about 3 qts. 
salt and pepper as needed 
about y 2 c. flour for thickening 
Make like corn chowder. Serve with crackers, or toast. 
This is substantial enough for a dinner, if sliced hard- 
cooked eggs are added just before serving, allowing one egg 
to a person. 



