










^<>.*T?^\/ \'^^'\o'> V'^^V ''^'^ *•' 


















'^V^^v \J*^^^**V^ ^V^'^^V \/^ 



\.<^^ 
**'% 



/.i^-\ '"/^ai."- y.2i^'\ ^° -^ 






^'• 






















Twentieth Century Club 



WAR TIME 

COOK BOOK 



PITTSBURGH 

PIERPONT. SIVITER & CO. 

1918 



^ 



Copyright 1918 

By the Twentieth Century Club 

of Pittsburgh 



APR 29i9l8 
©CI,A494940 



Dedicated to 

Mrs. William Watson Smith 

president of the 

Twentieth Century Club 

BY THE 
COOK BOOK COMMITTEI-: 

1918 



The women of Pennsylvania and the American 
Nation have contributed much and have sacriticed 
much to help win the war that is being waged to 
guarantee the safety of American homes and per- 
manency of American institutions, but more will be 
demanded before we can hope for victory, as much 
perhaps as has been demanded in England and 
France where the women of gentle birth are work- 
ing in the fields and factories to relieve men needed 
at the front. When our crisis comes, the patriotism 
of American women will prove them equally worthy 
of the sons and brothers who are fighting and dying 
to keep them safe ; but for the immediate present 
there is no more important war activity in which 
women may engage than the careful conservation of 
our food supply which is altogether inadequate to 
the needs of our own men and our allies at the fight- 
ing front unless we drastically modify our own use 
of such exportable staples as wheat, meat, sugar and 
animal fats. This is one of the ways by which our 
patriotic women may put love of country above all 
personal consideration. 

HOWARD HEINZ, 
Federal Food Administrator of Pennsylvania. 



A nation in war assumes for its women burdens 
just as great as those borne by its men. She is called 
into workshops, offices, and to the farm to do the 
work of the husband or son who is taken to bear 
arms in behalf of his country. She follows the army 
to care for the wounded and give comfort to the 
dying. Nowhere is her service more effective and 
indispensable in such critical times than in the con- 
servation and scientific planning of the food we eat. 

A serious shortage of food is one of the sure 
results of war. In this war we are called upon not 
only to feed our own people, but we have assumed 
the responsibility of providing that which is needed 
to be added to the greatly depleted supply of those 
engaged with us in the war. 

Our country possesses the most bountiful 
variety of foodstuffs. To us our allies turn — on 
the verge of starvation. Of our bounty we must 
so choose as to release for use abroad the urgently 
needed concentrated foodstuffs. The choosing is the 
task and privilege of our devoted women. 

I commend, therefore, the use of the conserva- 
tion recipes in this book and urge that in the other 
recipes a careful scientific substitution be practiced, 
at least in the present world emergency. By so 
doing you will furnish food for many an empty 
mouth and shivering body. 

W. D. GEORGE. 
Federal Food Administrator for Allegheny County. 

March 30. 1918. 



Today one rarely hears it said that "A woman's 
place is in the home," for if the women of England 
and France had practiced this old adage, the war 
would already be lost. However, there is no doubt 
that a woman's war work, whatever form it may 
take, should commence in the home, in conserving 
the health of her children, an-d conserving those 
foodstuffs which are most needed by our soldiers and 
allies. No matter how many days a week American 
women may give to selling Liberty Bonds or 
war saving stamps, to making bandages, sweaters 
or socks, their efforts will be in vain, if they have 
not done their part toward feeding those who fight 
for them. The time has passed when we can plead 
ignorance of the demands of the Food Administra- 
tion, and I think the time will come when the 
woman who, through laziness or selfishness, fails 
to obey those demands, will be considered (and 
rightly) just as much of a "slacker" as the man who 
tries to evade the call for service. 

Much has been done by the women of Pitts- 
burgh during the first year of the war, but far more 
must be done before we shall have won the war. 
The time is at hand when the great question for 
each of us must be, "How can I order my life to- 
day that I may be of service in shortening this con- 
flict?" How can I arrange my meals and manage 
my household so that I am using only such amounts 
of wheat, meat, sugar and animal fats as are a bare 
necessity?" To such a task we may well dedicate 
ourselves on this, the anniversary of our entrance 
into the war. 

MRS. ALEXANDER J. BARRON, 
Director of Food Conservation for Allegheny 
Co. Woman's Committee, Council of 
National Defense. 

April 6, 1918. 



A RECIPE FOR GOOD HUMOR. 

"Take twenty-four hours; mix thoroughly with the 
milk of human kindness; add spice of life to suit taste, 
a little discretion, some common sense; knead with the 
hand of friendship and bake in the open hearth of love; 
do not allow it to cool too quickly by trouble, or become 
sour by affliction ; serve with generous sauce and a bright 
smile." 



THE • NET PROCEEDS FROM 

THE • SALE • OF THIS BOOK 

ARE • FOR THE 

WAR WORK OF THE CLUB 

PLEASE DO NOT LEND IT, 

BUT ■ ASK ■ YOUR ■ FRIENDS 

TO. BUY ONE 



// is suggested that as far as possible 
the butter, sugar, animal fat and 
wheat given in these recipes be changed * 
to war time substitutes . 

The Cook Book Committee. 



WE MUST SUBSTITUTE. 





Corn 




Tapioca 




Oats 


WHEAT 


Barley 




Rye 




Rice 




Potato 




Cottonseed Oil 




Wesson Oil 


BUTTER 


Mazola 


LARD 


Peanut Oil 

1 




Drippings 




Nut Margarine 




■ Molasses 


SUGAR 


Honey 




Syrups — Corn and Maple 




Poultry 




1 Beans 


BEEF 


j Eggs 


PORK 


\ Cheese 


MUTTON 


1 Nuts 




1 Fish 




Milk 



Breads 



GENERAL SUGGESTIONS FOR THESE BREADS 

Use Molasses in Rolled Oats Bread to save sugar. 
Use hardened vegetable fat to save the butter, lard and lard 
substitutes needed abroad. 

Use 1,4 cake yeast when bread rises overnight 

Use y2 cake yeast when bread must be mixed, put to rise and 
baked in six hours. 

l-'ill greased pans a little less than l/z full. 

Bake in moderately hot oven — turn pan around after 5 minutes 
to prevent uneven shape. 

Use these breads in turn to give variety to your table. 
If possible buy skimmed milk for use in baking and cooking. 
U. S. FOOD ADMINISTRATION, 
ALLEGHENY COUNTY. 



CORN AND FLOUR BREAD 

1 cup of cornmeal and white 1 tablespoon lard 

flour 1 cake ye>ast (magic preferred) 

1 quart of water . soaked in y'j cup of warm 

2 teaspoons salt water 
^ cup molasses 

Mix cornmeal, water and salt together, making mush, and 
cook until very soft. 

Add other ingredients, making a stiff dough of white flour. 
In the morning work the dough again before baking bread. 

(Mrs. Eugene L. Messier.) 

CRACKLING CORN BREAD 

2 cups cornmeal pinch of salt 

\V2 cups milk V2 cup bacon cut in small 

2 teaspoons Royal baking pieces. 

l)owder. Bake 30 minutes 

(Mrs. J. M. Thorne) 
10 



CORN BREAD WITH MILK AND EGG 

y'i cup white cornmeal 1 tablespoon Crisco, melted 

J/2 cup yellow cornmeal 1 tablespoon sugar 

1 cup flour 1 rounded teaspoon salt 

1 cup milk }, teaspoons baking powder 

1 egg 

Bring cup of milk to a boil and pour over the cornmeal 
and salt; stir well and let stand Yz hour before stirring in 
the rest. Pour into a large pan and bake about 30 minutes in 
a moderate oven. (Mrs. P. J. Eaton) 

CORN BREAD, Without Milk 

2 cups white cornmeal 1 tablespoon butter 

lYz cups boiling water ^ teaspoon baking powder 

2 eggs 1 teaspoon salt 

Put the cornmeal in a Ijowl, make a hole in the center 
and add the salt and butter. Pour ^ cup boiling water over 
the butter and stir until it is melted. Then add ^ cup boiling 
water and stir it well into the meal. .Add a full cup boiling 
water, and when well mixed add the eggs, beating in one at 
a time; add baking powder and bake immediately. 

(Mrs. S. B. Ely) 

CORN BREAD Without Milk and Eggs 

2 cups white cornmeal 2 cups boiling water 

2 level teaspoons salt 2 cups cold water 

Scald meal and salt with boiling water and add cold water 
slowly; beat well and let stand over night. P>ake 1 hour in a 
moderate oven. (Mrs. Benjamin McKeen) 

BATTER BREAD 

1 ])int sweet milk 2 eggs 

1 pint cornmeal salt 

teaspoon lard 
Make mush with meal and hot water; cook a feu minutes; 
thin with milk; melt lard in pan for baking; pour in the batter; 
add eggs well beaten last. (Mrs. F. R. Babcock) 

SPOON BREAD 

1 quart milk 1 tablespoon melted butter 

1 cup cornmeal 1 tablespoon baking powder 

2 eggs salt 

Beat eggs, add milk, melted butter, salt, cornmeal and 
baking powder. Bake in moderate oven. This is soft when 
baked and served with a spoon. (Mrs. .\. G. Mitchell) 



Buy beef suet and render it carefully. You can use 
it in place of butter in making cake, bread and pastry 
and for frying. 



WAR BREAD 

2 yeast cakes di§so.lved in V2 cup luke warm water, 

1 teaspoon, sugar. 

Let them stand in warm place till light. 

2 oz. lard. 2 cups hot water 
;^ cup sugar or Karo syrup 1^ cups cold water 

4 level teaspoons salt 

Mix lard and hot water, add sugar, salt, and last, cold 
water'. 

When yeast is. foaming, beat these together and add: 
2 cups cornmeal 11 cups white flour sifted to- 

6 cups bran gether 

Knead well and when light make into loaves. W^ien 
double in size, bake 45 minutes. 

<'Can use 3 cups' cornmeal and 10 of flour.) 

(Mrs. Wni. Thaw. Sr.) 



SPOON CORN BREAD 

1 cup cornmeal ^ teaspoon salt 

2 cups boiling water 

Boil 2 hours in double boiler. Take from fire and add 
1 cup milk Lump of butter size of a walnut 

1 egg beaten very light 

.Bjeat mixture very light and put in a baking dish. Bake 
V2 hour. Serve, as: a vegetable. (Mrs. George L. Clifford) 

OATMEAL BREAD 

4 cups of uncooked rolled 2 tablespoons of salt 
oats (loose, not in pkg.)54 cups molasses 
. 6 cups of boiling <vater 1 yeast cake (dissolved) 

2 tablespoons Crisco 2^ to 3 qts. f^our 

Pour the boiling water over the rolled oats, adding the 
Crisco and salt. Let cool. Add (when luke warm) molasses 
and yeast cake which has been dissolved in a little luke warrn 
water. Add flour enough to make stiff (usually 2% to 3 qts.) 
Stir it well. Put to' rise over night. Put in pans in the morn- 
iiig" without adding flour or kneading and let rise for about 3 
hours. Bake for one hour. 

This makes five loaves, or four loaves and muffins. 



, Use every crumb of stale bread. You will find a num- 
ber of recipes in this book to help you. 

12 



BOSTON BROWN BREAD 

1 cup rye meal 34 teaspoon salt 

2 cups cornmeal 1 cup sour niilk 
1 teaspoon soda raisins 

J4 cup molasses 

Put into tightly covered mold which has been greased. 
Steam over 6 hours. Dry in oven a few minutes and serve, 
cutting loaf across mold. 

OATMEAL BREAD 

1 cup liquid 1 tal)lespoon sugar or_ 3 
y4^y2 cake yeast tablespoons Karo Corn 
\y2 cups oatmeal Syrup or Molasses 

2-3 cups wheat ilonr 1 teaspoon salt 

1 tablespoon fat 

Heat liquid to boiling and with it scald the oatmeal. 
Allow to cool, and proceed making batter as for ordinary 
bread sponge. 

Makes 13 oz. loaf, costs 9c. 

(Miss Pope) 

BUTTERMILK BROWN BREAD 

^ cup molasses 1 cup of graham flour 

2 large cups buttermilk ^ cup of rye flour 
1 level teaspoon of soda dis- 2 cups cornmeal 

solved in 1 large tablespoon white flour 

1 tablespoon hot water 1 tablespoon melted butter 

J^ teaspoon of salt 

Stir together and beat well. Steam 3 or 4 hours in well 
buttered can. 

Remove cover of can and place in oven about .5 minutes 
to dry off. 

(Miss Clara Johnson) 

BOSTON BROWN BREAD Without Milk 

1 cup cornmeal 1 pint hot water 

1 cup rye meal 1 teaspoon soda 

1 cup white flour salt 

1 cup molasses 

Mix dry ingredients together, steam 3 hours in an air-tiglit 
mold. Dry in oven half an hour. 

(Mrs. Chester 1'.. .Mbree) 

BOSTON BROWN BREAD 

1 cup cornmeal 1 teaspoon salt 

1 cup rye 1 heaping teaspoon soda 

1 cup white flour 1 pint sour milk 

y^ cup molasses 

Mix thoroughly the first five ingredients. Beat soda into 
the milk and add to mixture, making a thin batter as for cake, 
adding more milk if necessary. Steam for 4 hours. 

(Mrs. George E. House) 



Cut your bread at the table as it is wanted, 

13 



BARLEY BREAD 

\% cups barley flour 1 cup liquid 

% to 1/4 cake yeast softened inl teaspoon salt 
!4 cup lukewarm water 2Vr cups white flour 

Scald the liquid, cool to lukewarm, add the salt, the soft- 
ened yeast and half the flour, heat thoroughly, cover and let 
rise until very light. Then add the remainder of the flour. 
Knead, cover and let rise until double in bulk. Shape into a 
loaf, cover and let rise again until double in bulk. Bake. 

(War Food Bureau, Baltimore) 

BRAN BREAD (One Loaf) 

1 '4 cups liquid 1 tablespoon fat 

y^ to Yi yeast cake softened 1 cup bran 

in y^ cup lukewarm water 3 cups wheat flour (more or 

1 J/2 teaspoons salt less) 

2 tablespoons molasses 

Scald liquid, pour over salt, molasses and fat. When luk-:- 
warm add softened yeast. Beat well. Add bran and enough 
flour to make sponge. Let stand till light and foamv. Then 
add enough more flour to make a dough. Knead .until smooth 
and elastic. Let rise till slightly more than double in bulk. 
Shape into a loaf. When a little more than twice its original 
size, bake from 50 minutes to 1 hour. 

Xote — Xot so high in nutritive value as other breads, but 
has a s])ecial value owing to its laxative efi^ect. 

(The Pennsylvania State College) 

HOMINY BREAD (With Wheat Flour and Potatoes (Three 
Loaves) (From the Club Messenger) 

15^ cu])S cooked hominy 1 tablespoon sugar 

y^ cup potatoes 1 yeast cake 

1 tablespoon fat 8 cups flour (more or less) 
1^ teas]joons salt 

Cook together the cooked hominy and potatoes until the 
potatoes are tender. Put through a colander or potato ricer. 
Add the salt, sugar, fat. and enough water to make four cups, 
and when lukewarm, the yeast softened in a small amount of 
the liquid. Add enough wheat flour to make a sponge. Let 
stand till light and foamy. Add flour to make a dough. Knead 
until smooth and elastic. I^et rise till slightly more than 
double in bulk. Shape into loaves. When a little more than 
twice the original size, bake about 1 hour. 

(The Pennsylvania State College) 



Do not serve new bread — one eats more than is 
necessary, 

14 



PRUNE BREAD 

Take 2 dozen iiriiiies, v\ asli well, just cover with water 
and let stand over night. Cook in same water. 'I'hornughly 
cool and remove pits. Chop fine. 

Mix: Mix: 

4 cups Dr. Johnston's Edu- 1 cup molasses 

cator Bran 1 teaspoon soda, l)eat tocisther 

2 cuns Franklin Milk W'liole 2 cups fluid, sweet m'lk and 

Wheat Flour ])runc juice toi^ether 
1 scant teaspoon salt 

.Add prunes 

Mix all together. Hake in small loaves in moderate oven 

1 hour or more. 

NUT AND RAISIN BREAD 

2 cujjs pastry flour '/_. cuj) molasses 

1 cup graham flour 1 cup thick sour milk 

1 teaspoon salt J/i teaspoon soda, scant and 

3 slightly rounding teaspoons measured tevel. 

baking powder J/2 cup nut meats, chopped 

1 egg '/2 cup raisins, chopped 

Sift together the dry ingredients, put the soda in the sour 
;nilk and beat thoroughb^; add the molasses, beaten egg and 
stir into the dry ingredients. Stir in nuts and raisins and turn 
into a greased breadpan. Fet stand 13 minutes, then bake 
about 43 minutes. 

(Mrs. Chester I'., .\lbree) 

NUT BREAD 

Yz cup cornmeal 1^ cups rye flour 

% teasDOon salt 4 teaspoons baking powder 

1 level tsn. vegetable fat Vx cup milk 

% cup boiling water Y^ cup chopped nuts 

I'ut cornmeal into a bowl, add salt, fat and bo'Iin.g water, 
mix: let stand 20 minutes. .\dd flour mixed with baking pow- 
der and the milk and lastly the chopped nuts. Mix li.ghtlv, 
I)our into a well-greased bread pan; let stand in a warm place 
20 minutes. Bake in a moderately hot oven. Do not cut u:it 1 
cold. 

SPIDER BREAD 

\y> cups flour Yi teasjioon lard 

1 pint boiled holiiiny Yi teaspoon butter 

Yi pint milk 2 teaspoons baking powder 

1 tablespoon salt 1 egg 

Bake in shallow tins about half inch thick. 



Instead of hot cakes for breakfast, use your stale 
bread, cut in thin slices, toasted and dipped quickly in 
boiling water, buttered, add a spoonful of honey on top. 
Serve immediately. Can be best done at the table with 
water over an electric plate. 



POTATO BREAD 

11/2 cups mashed potatoes 4 cups flour (more or less) 

Yi cup liquid includint;- water 1 12 teaspoon salt 

in which yeast is softened 1 tablespoon fat 

J4 to 1 yeast cake 1 tablespoon sugar 

Add salt, fat and sugar to mashed potatoes. When luke- 
warm add liquid, also lukewarm, in which yeast has been soft- 
ened. Mix with enough flour to make a sponge. Let rise till 
light and foamy, add enough more flour to make a dough. 
Knead till smooth and elastic. Let rise till slightly more than 
double in bulk. Shape into a loaf. When a little more than 
twice its original size, bake for about 1 hour. 

(The Pennsylvania State College) 

RICE BREAD (One Loaf) 

1 cup steamed rice cooked IJ2 teaspoons salt 

very soft Yi tablespoon sugar 

1/2 cup liquid y2 tablespoon fat 

Yi, \o Vi yeast cake 3 cups flour (more or less) 

Scald liquid, then cool to lukewarm. Soften yeast in this. 
Add to rice with salt, sugar and fat. Beat well, add flour 
gradually till stifle enou.gh to knead. Knead till very smootli 
and elastic. Let rise till slightly more than double in bulk. 
Shape into a loaf. When a little more than twice its original 
size, bake from 50 n'linutes to 1 hour. 

(The I'ennsyhania State College) 

GRAHAM GEMS With Sour or Butter Milk 

\Ya cups graham flour (ienerous pinch of salt 

^ cup flour 1 cup sour, or butter milk 

3 tablespoons melted butter J/j teaspoon soda in milk 

1 egg ;/2 tablespoon sugar 

Bake in gem pans in moderate oven. Makes 1 dozen. 



WAR-TIME ECONOMY. 

1. Choose food wisely. 

2. Store it properly. 

3. Cook it carefully. 

4. Serve it attractively. 

Don't give the new dishes a black eye by having too 
many of them at once. Use all the ingenuity you have 
to make them both taste and look well. 

Food habits, like other habits, are not easily changed. 
Lead gently into the new realm. 

16 



RYE BREAD (One Loaf) 

1 cup liquid 1 tablespoon sut;ar or 

j4 to J^ yeast cake softened 2 tablespoons molasses 

in % cup hike warm 1 tablespoon fat 

water 3 cups wheat flour (more or 

11/2 teaspoons salt less) 

1 cup rye flour 

Scald liquid, pour over salt, sugar and fat. When luke- 
warm add softened yeast. Beat well. Add flour to make a 
sponge. Let rise till light and foamy. Then add remaining 
flour to make a dough. Knead until smooth and elastic. Let 
rise till slightly more than double in bulk. Shape into a loaf. 
When a little more than twice its original size, bake from 50 
minutes to 1 hour. 

(The Pennsylvania wState College) 



CORN MUFFINS 

2 cups cornmcal 14 cup sugar 

1 cup flour 1 cup sweet milk 

3 eggs (2 will do — use a 1 teaspoon salt 

little more milk) 3 teaspoons baking powder 

J/2 cup shortening 

Bake 15 minutes in moderate oven in gem pans. 

(Anna Dake McCague) 

PEANUT BUTTER BREAD OR MUFFINS 

1 cup flour y2 cup peanut butter mixed 

1 teaspoon baking powder with )4 cup milk 

% teaspoon salt 1 egg 

% cup sugar 1 teaspoon shortening 

Bake bread 40 minutes. Bake mulTins 12 to IS minutes. 



"EDUCATOR" BRAN MUFFINS 

1 cup Porto Rico molasses 1 cup sweet milk 

1 cup "Educator" bran flour V2 teaspoon baking soda, dis- 

1 cup white flour solved in a little hot water. 

First, mix the two flours together; then add soda; last, 
mix the molasses and sweet milk together. Mix all together. 

(Mrs. Frederick R. Babcock) 



Make your own peanut meaL Hull the peanuts and 
remove the thin red skin, place on thick parafine paper 
and crush fine with rolling pin. 



BUCKWHEAT MUFFINS 

1 cup wheat flour l.)4 cup milk 

1 cup buckwheat 1 egg- 

4 teaspoons baking powder 1 tablespoon mtlted fat 

Y^ teaspoon salt 2 tablespoons molasses 

Sift together dry ingredients. Combine milk, l)eaten eggs, 
melted fat and molasses. Add liquid and dry ingredients. 
Mix well. Bake half an hour in moderate oveji. Makes 10 or 12. 

(Mrs. Mortimer C. Miller) 

BUCKWHEAT BUNS 

1 cake yeqst in y^, cup water 1 tablespoon sugar or mo- 
1 cup milk lasses 

1 , , , r ^ lj6 cup buckwheat 

1 tablespoon tat i./ i •. i 

' lJ/2 cup white cornmeal 

^ teaspoon salt i cup wheat flour 

Beat well, let stand till light, about 3 hours. Beat again. 
Put in mufi'in pans. Raise at least 2 hours, until very light. 
Bake quickly. 

(Mrs. Fletcher Collins) 

BIRD'S NEST 

Bird's Nests are made for any kind of hot rolls, from 
yeast bread dough, rye, wheat, oatmeal, etc. Take a small 
amount and roll about the thickness of your thumb and 6 
inches long. Tie in a single knot, making head of one end 
and tail of the other. The tail can be marked with a fork and 
the beak formed into shape with the fingers. 

Let rise and bake as any other hot rolls. 

GRAHAM MUFFINS WITH SWEET MILK 

1 cup white flour ^4 teaspoon salt 

1 cup graham flour 1 teaspoon baking powder 

1 tablespoon butter 1 egg 

1/2 teaspoon sugar 1 scant cup sweet milk 

Rub butter into flour; add dry ingredients, mix well. Beat 
the egg, put it into a measuring-cup and fill with milk. Stir 
this into the flour; when thoroughly mixed fill buttered gem 
pans and bake in a quick oven until golden brown. This bat- 
ter is very stifif and the top of ,the mufi^in when baked should 
be rough. 



Avoid: L Sweet soft drinks. 

2. Leaving sugar in coffee cups. 

3. Frosting on cake unless made with honey 

or maple syrup. 

4. As much cake as formerly. 



BERKSHIRE MUFFINS 

V2 cu]) cornnieal Yz teaspoon salt 

Yz cup cooked rice 1 egrg 

Y2 cup flour 1 tablespoon melted fat 

2 tablespoons sugar 3 tablespoons baking powder 
% cup scalded milk 

Turn milk on to cornmeal and let stand 5 minutes; add 
rice and flour which has been sifted with salt and baking pow- 
der. Add egg yojk, fat, and l)caten white. Cook 20 to 30 
minutes in moderate oyen. 

GRAHAM MUFFINS 

1 cup graham flour 1 tablespoon sugar 

1 cup white flour 2 tablespoonsful melted buttei 

1 teaspoonful salt 1 egg 

3 teaspoonsful baking powder 1 cup milk 

Sift the dry ingredients together, except the graham flour; 
then add the graham flour. Then add the milk, egg yolk witli- 
out beating, melted butter and beat well. Then fold in the 
stiffly beaten white of egg. Bake in a moderate oven about 
20 minutes. (Mrs. Wm. Watson Smith) 

BRAN AND GRAHAM MUFFINS 

1 cup bran 1 cup sweet niilk 

2 cu])s grahain or wheat flour % cup melted butter 

4 teaspoons baking powder 1 tablespoon brown sugar 

1 scant teaspoon salt 

(Mrs. George I'earson) 

BRAN GEMS 

2 well beaten eggs 2 tablespoons melted butter 
4 tablespoons molasses 1 cup war flour 

1 cup milk 2 cups Kellogg's l)ran 

2 heaping tsp baking ])owder 1 cvli) seedless raisins 
% teaspoons salt 

Mix in order given and bake in hot gem pans. Quantity 
given makes fourteen gems. 

(Mrs. W. W. Wishart) 

BRAN MUFFINS Without Eggs 

Yz cup flour 2 cups bran 

1/4 cups milk 1 level teaspoon soda 

1 teaspoon salt Y^ cup molasses 

Mix dry ingredients, then add wet. I'ut in muffin ]ians. 
Bake 45 minutes. 

(Mrs. A. K. Grubbs) 



Cold rice can be added to muffins, cornbread, or 
griddle cakes, adding to their lightness, digestibility and 
food value. 

19 



HOT CROSS BUNS 

1 cup scalded milk 34 teaspoon c'lnnamon 

^ cup sugar Vi teaspoon salt 

3 cups flour 2 tablespoons butter 

J4 cup currants >^ yeast cake dissolved in \\ 

1 egg cup lukewarin water 

Add butter, sugar and salt to milk; when lukewarm add 
dissolved yeast cake, cinnamon and egg well beaten. When 
thoroughly mixed, add raisins; cover and let rise over night; 
in the morning form in large cakes or biscuits, place in pans 
one inch apart, let rise, brush over with egg and bake 20 min- 
utes. When cool, make cross with frosting on each cake. 

(Mrs. Wm. H. Latshaw) 

PLAIN MUFFINS 

1 tablespoon butter 1 cup sweet milk 

1 tablespoon sugar 2 cups flour, sifted 

1 egg I ' 2 teaspoons baking powder 

pinch salt 

Bake in gem pans in moderate oven. Makes 1 dozen. 

PARKER HOUSE ROLLS 

1 pint flour (sifted twice) ^4 cake yeast 

1 small pint cornmeal (scald- 1 even teaspoon sugar 
ed in hard boiling water) 1 even tablespoon lard 
i/^ pint cold boiled milk salt 

Mix flour and lard together. Make hole in center and add 
the cornmeal. Make hole in center of cornmeal and pour in 
milk, yeast and sugar. Let stand over night without mixing. 
In morning knead and leit rise 3 hours. 

Work into rolls, making 3 dozen. Let rise again until 
about 3 times their size, and bake in hot oven 20 minutes. 

(Miss Bissell) 

BLUEBERRY MUFFINS 

1 tablespoon butter or Crisco2 cups flour 

1 egg 2 tsp Royal baking powder 

Yi cup sugar 1 cup berries 

Yi cup milk 

(Mrs. H. A. Ross) 

RICE CAKES 

1 cup cold "boiled rice 1 scant tablespoon flour 

3 or 4 egg whites Season with salt 

Beat whites until very stiff; fold in the flour and rice. Bake 
on a soapstone griddle. Serve with butter, sugar and cinna- 
mon (Mrs. Wm. Watson Smith) 



Instead of having hot cakes for breakfast, serve them 
as a luncheon dessert. 



MUFFINS 

Take out one-fiftli of douLili ulicn mouldint!, the loaves 
and add 1 tablespoon Crisco and put it into ticm pans. Let it 
rise and bake when light enough. 

(Mrs. P. J. Eaton) 

RICE MUFFINS 

234 cups flour 5 teaspoons baking powder 

^ cup hot cooked rice 2 teaspoons sugar 

1 cup milk 2 tablespoons melted butter 

1 egg Yi teaspoon salt 

Mix and sift dry ingredients; add Yi the milk and the egg 
well beaten. The remainder of the milk mix with the rice; 
beat well and add melted lintter. liake in gem pans. 

(Mrs. P. J. Eaton) 



Other cooked cereals or mashed potatoes may be used in 
this recipe. If the dough is too soft, add a little more flour; 
if too thick, a little more liquid. 

CORN DODGERS 

2 cups cornmeal flinch salt 

1 pint cold water 2 tsp. Royal baking powder 

Bake on griddle. Tliese are excellent served with fish. 

(Mrs. S. R. Gallagher) 

RICE FLOUR MUFFINS 

1 pint rice flour 3 teaspoons baking powder 

3 tablespoons lard 1 teaspoon salt 

2 tablespoons sugai 2 eggs 

Milk to make a moderately stiff batter. 

(Mrs. James R. Mactarlane) 



"GO BACK TO THE SIMPLE LIFE." 

Be contented with simple food, simple pleasures, 
simple clothes. Work hard, pray hard, play hard. Work, 
eat, recreate, sleep. Do it all courageously. We have a 
victory to win. 

"Buy less; cook np more than necessary; serve smaller 
portions." 

"Use local and seasonable supplies.'' 

"Preach and practice the 'gospel of the clean plate.' " 

"Do not limit the plain food of growing children." 

21 



Griddle Cakes and Waffles 



CORN GRIDDLE CAKES 

1 CUD flour \y2 cups milk, or enough to 

1 cup cornmeal make right thickness 

1 egg Pinch salt 

hutter size of a walnut A little sugar if desired 

2 heaping tsps baking powder 

Melt butter; mix all ingredients but the last. Stir to- 
gether till smooth and proper thickness. Add baking ijowder 
just before baking. 

BUCKWHEAT CAKES 

2 cups buckwheat flour 1 tablespoon inolasses 
lA cup flour 1 scant teaspoon soda 

1 pint warm water 1 yeast cake 

14 teaspoon salt 

Mix all ingredients except soda, adding the yeast last. 
Beat well. Let rise over night; just before baking add soda 
dissolved in a little hot water. Do not beat after adding soda, 
but carefully stir. Bake on hot greased griddle. The left over 
batter can be used again by adding same amount of ingredients 
except yeast. Only add fresh yeast when latter becomes flat. 

CORN CAKES 

1 cup cornmeal (yellow and 1 teaspoon salt 

white) Ij/ cups boiling water 

1 tablespoon sugar 1 egg, beaten 

1 tablespoon butter 1 teaspoon baking powder 

Mix ingredients; add l)aking powder just before baking 
on hot griddle. 

(Mrs. Benjamin McKeen) 

BARLEY WAFFLES 

1 ■ cup milk . 14 teaspoon salt 

2 eggs 3 teaspoons baking powder 

3 tablespoons butter substitute2 cups barley flour 

Beat eggs and mix with other ingredients. Bake on hot 
wafifle iron. 



"KEEP A BUTTER CUP." 

Save the small amounts of butter left on plates. 
Scrape it into a cup kept for that purpose. Use it for 
"special" cooking. 

24 



OATMEAL GRIDDLE CAKES 

1 cup milk Yi cup flour 

1 egg Va, teaspoon salt 

1 talilespoon vegetable oil 4 level teaspoons l)aking 

1 Vz cups cooked oatmeal powder 

Combine milk, beaten egg, and fat, and beat into tbe 
cooked oatmeal: add flour, salt, and baking powder, which 
have been sifted together, and bake on a hot griddle. Other 
cooked cereals or mashed potatoes may be used instead of 
oatmeal. 



DELICIOUS CORN CAKES 

IK' pints sour or buttermilk 1 teaspoon salt 

2 eggs beaten separately 1 teaspoon soda 

1 ta])lespoon sugar Enough cornmeal to make 

2 tbsp. melted nut margarine thin batter, no flour 

Before putting in eggs add the melted margarine and soda 
mixed in a very little hot water; throughout the mixing beat 
thoroughly; use more fat than usual in frying. 

(Mrs. Wm. M. Hall) 

CORN MEAL WAFFLES 

1 cup cornmeal 2 tablespoons fat, melted 

1 cup flour 2 eggs 

2 teaspoons baking powder 1 scant cup milk 
K teaspoon salt 

Beat eggs separately and add yglks to flour, corn meal, 
baking powder, salt, and milk, into which' the melted fat is 
poured 

l-'oid in whites last and bake. 

This quan'tity makes about 16 walTles. 

(Mrs. W. II. R. Hilliard) 

To avoid smoke when baking cakes, do not use fats for 
greasing. Rub raw potato on the griddle each time before 
frying cakes 

VARYING THE BREAKFAST CEREAL 

When cooking the cereal, make double the amount needed, 
pouring the extra amount into a square pan; let cool, as when 
l)reparing cornmeal mush, cut in slices and fry for breakfasv 
the next day. 

.Add a cupful of chopped dates or figs to oatmeal al)out 1.^ 
minutes before taking from the fire 

Add heaping tablespoon chojiped salted peanuts to cream 
of wheat just before serving. 

Pinion nuts also are delicious used in this way. 

25 



Soups 

VEGETABLE SOUP WITHOUT MEAT 

14 cup onions 

14 cup celery 

Yi cup carrots 

Yz cup white turnips 

Yz cup leeks 

Yi cup cabbage 

Ya, cup barley soaked in water. 
Cut vegetables into small pieces and mix them. 
Fry in four tablespoons of oil until a light brown, 
stirring constantly. Then add lYz quarts of hot 
water and the soaked barley. Cook slowly for 4 
hours. Serve very hot. 

MRS. HERBERT C. HOOVER. 

MUSHROOM SOUP 

1 pint fresh mushoonis 1 tablespoon butter 

1 i)int cream 1 tablespoon flour 

Wash mushrooms and take off skins; cover with cold 
water; add a little salt and boil until soft; mash hard through 
collander and add liquid in which mushrooms were bo/ied. 
Boil butter and flour and add pint of cream slowly. I'ut alto- 
gether in double boiler. 

(Mrs, Geo. Irwin lloldship) 

CARROT SOUP 

1 cup cooked carrots, run Y^ teaspoon butter 
through ricer or grated 1^ pint milk 

fresh carrots V2 teaspoon cornstarch 

Melt butter and mix in the corn starch, add carrots, then 
milk. A little stock may be added. Cook in double boiler. 
Spinach may be substituted for carrots. 

FRENCH VEGETABLE SOUP 

2 ounces of parsnip.s 1 ounce leaks 
Zy2 ounces of potatoes 1 small tomato 

1 ounce peas (with shells) 1 small carrot (K' oz.) 
1 ounce string beans 

Put vegetables in four quarts of water, reduce to half the 
cuantity. boiling gently for six hours. Strain and serve hot. 

(Miss Rachel C. Aiken) 
27 



CREAM OF LIMA BEAN 

1 cup dried beans 1 cup milk 

3 pints cold water 2 tablespoons flour 

2 onions Salt to taste 
2 carrots (cut fine) 

Soak beans over night, drain and add cold water. Cook 
beans, vater, onions and carrots together, strain and rub 
tlirough a sieve. Stir milk, flour and salt into the boiling soup. 

^Irs. A. K. Grubbs) 

SPINACH SOUP 

^ peck spinach 5/2 teaspoon salt 

1 qt. milk ^ teaspoon paprika 

1 heaping teaspoon flour Butter size of walnu) 

Boil the spinach, wash through a sieve. Add this to the 
sauce made of the other ingredients. 

Mrs, T. W. Friend 



Use the water in which vegetables have been boiled 
in your soup stock. 

ASPARAGUS SOUP 

Liquid from 1 can asparagus 1 pint top milk 
5^ cup mashed potatoes 1 tablespoon whipped cream 

1 . tsp. olive oil, or butter Dash of paprika 

With the liquid front the can of asparagus, mix mashed 
potatoes for thickening. Add the olive oil (or butter) and 
milk. Before serving add a tablespoon of whipped cream 
and a dash of paprika pepper to each portion. 

(Mrs. Guy Stewart McCabe) 

STRING BEAN SOUP 

Use either one can or one good size quart of fresh string 
beans and make the sauce as spinach soup. 

(Mrs. T. W. Friend) 

ONION AND CHEESE SOUP 

2 tbsp. butter substitute 1 cup milk 

2 tbsp. flour y2 cup grated cheese 

2 cups water 5 onions 

Melt butter substitute, add flour and water in which the 
onions have been cooked. Stir until it boils. Add milk, and 
just before serving stir in cheese. Season to taste with salt 
and cayenne pepper and serve very hot. 

(Mrs. Joseph Burt) 
28 



CREAM OF VEGETABLE SOUP 

1 ((iiart milk (skim milk mayl teaspoon salt 

be used) 2 cups left-over vegetables 

2V^ tablespoons tlour or corn- warmed in a small quantity 

starch of water then pressed through 

2 tablespoons Initter sulistitute. a sieve. Spinach, peas, 
margarine, or other fat beans, potatoesj celery, oys- 
ter plant, or asparagus make 
good soups 

Stir flour into melted fat and mix with the cold milk. 
Add the cooked vegetables and stir over the fire until thickened. 
If soup is too thick, add a little water or milk. 

TOMATO BOUILLON WITH OYSTERS 

1 can tomatoes 6 cloves 

V/i quarts bouillon 1/2 teaspoon celery salt 

1 'tbsp. chopped onions J^ teaspoon pepper corn 
Yz bay leaf 1 pt. oysters 

Mix all ingredients except oysters, and boil 20 minutes. 
Strain, cool and clear, add par-boiled oysters and serve at once. 

(Mrs. Frederic I. Merrick) 

OX TAIL SOUP 

2 ox tails 6 carrots 

^ cup barley J^ teaspoon alspice 

4 large onions Salt and pepper 

Wash Ox Tail — Cover with 3 quarts cold water and boil 
gently one and one-half hours with salt to taste. Wash the 
barley and boil one hour with ox tails. Have ready the onions 
and carrots chopped fine and boil all together until the vege- 
tables and barley are cooked. Half an hour before removing 
from the fire add the pepper and alspice to taste. 

SUGGESTION— GARNISHED OX TAIL 

2 ox tails 3 carrots 

By removing the ox tail from which ithe soup has been 
cooked, before it is cooked to shreads, a very attractive and 
nourishing meal can be made. Slice or cut the carrots in 
long strips. Boil with salt. Have ready at the time of serv- 
ing and arrange around the joints of the ox tail on platter 
with watercress and parsley. If gravy is desired, which 
adds very much, take a cup and a half of stock before the 
vegetables are put in, straining out the barley. Thicken with 
browned flour or add a teaspoon or two of kitchen bouquet 
to give a rich brown color. Pour gravy over the joints of 
meat and serve very hot. 

(Mrs. John .A. MurtlancH 



In place of white flour use cornstarch for thickening 
soups, gravies and sauces. Use half the amount. 

29 



QUICK BOUILLON 

Drain the liquor from a can of peas, add to it one cup 
of milk, one cup of boiling water in wliich one beef cube 
has been dissolved, add pinch of salt, paprika, a little butter 
and teaspoon of cornstarch. Boil all one minute and serve in 
cups. 

LOBSTER BISQUE 

1 can lobster ] tablespoon butter 

2 cups milk J/^ cup fine cracker crumbs 

3 pts. boiling water 

Chop the lobster a little, put boiling water, salt, pepper 
and lobster in sauce pan, and cook gently 40 minutes. Strain 
through colander. Have ready scalding niillc and the bread 
crumbs and serve 



PEA SOUP 

Creamed Pea Soup can be made from pea pods boiled and 
strained. To this add white sauce. 



POTATO SOUP 

3 pints water 1 bunch celery greens 

4 potatoes 1 tablespoon butter 
1 bay leaf ;!> cup sweet cream 

1 slice of onion 

Boil potatoes in water with bay leaf, slice of onion and 
celery greens. When potatoes are soft mash throtigh a col- 
ander, season with pepper, salt, butter and cream. Cut bread 
in small squares, fry in butter and drop 5 or 8 in soup plate 
before serving. 

(Mrs. H. A. Ross) 

KIDNEY BEAN SOUP 

1 cup red beans 1 teaspoon flour 

1 quart water Pinch mustard 

1/2 onion Lemon juice 

1 teaspoon butter substitute V2 glass claret or 

Slices hard boiled egg 1 tsp. Worcestershire sauce 

Pick and soak beans over night. Drain and measure, using 
one cup of beans to above ingredients. Simmer beans and 
onion in water slowly until soft. Rub through sieve, return 
to fire, season with salt. Stir in butter and flour. Boil again 
for a few minutes. Add to this mustard, lemon juice, claret 
and slices of egg. 

Use milk to make the left-overs into satisfying and 
nourishing soups. 

30 



PEA SOUP 

3 cups of split peas (yellow) Ham or bacon ends 

3 leeks or onions Salt and pepper 

Do not throw away the ends of bacon or the ends of ham, 
both make very wholesome pea soup. Bones of beef, poultrv 
of lami) may also l)e added. After washing a medium sized 
bowl full of bacon ends or ham ends place in a large pan and 
cover with water. Add peas and onions or leeks. Boil until 
.'•oft and strain. Season before serving.' 

(Mrs. John .A. Murtland' 

MARROW BALLS 

1 cup marrow 1 cup bread crumbs 

1 egg 3 tablespoons hot water 

Pepper and salt to taste 

Render tlie marrow, then mix bread crumbs, add egg well 
beaten form into balls and drop in boiling soup. 

(Mrs. H. A. Ross) 

CORN CHOWDER 

1 tablespoon drippings or vege- 1 cup corn (fresh or canned) 
table oil 3 cups milk 

1 onion sliced V2 teaspoon salt 

2 cups cooked potato diced '4 teaspoon pepper 

Brown the sliced onion and i)otato in the fat; add corn, 
milk and seasoning. Do not cook too much, merely heat; 
chowder should be served hot. 



3. 



Fish 



SHAD ROE CROQUETTES 

2 shad roes 1 large tablespoon fat 

Yi pint cream 2 large tablespoons flour 

Yolks of 2 eggs 1 tablespoon chopped parsley 
y^ grated nutmeg Salt, cayenne and black 

1 teaspoon lemon juice pepper 

Wash shad roes, put in a saucepan of boiling water, add 
salt, cover and simmer slowly 15 minutes. Take out, remove 
the skin and mash. Put cream on to boil. Rub butter and 
flour together, add to boiling cream and stir mitil very thick. 
Add yoke of eggs. Take from the fire and add all other in- 
gredients. Mix well and turn out on a dish to cool. 

When cold form into croquettes, dip in egg and bread 
crumbs and fry in deep fat. Serve with Hollandaise sauce. 

(Mrs. J. J. Miller) 

HALIBUT CUTLETS 

1 lb. boiled halibut 1 teaspoonful salt 

1 cup creamed butter Dash of cayenne 

4 to 6 teaspoonfuls cream 

Put boiled halibut through chopper or pick in fine pieces. 
Work in the creamed butter and other ingredients. Shape into 
cutlets and fry in deep fat. 

FISH CHOWDER 

Canned salmon or fresh fish Bread crumbs 
Onions Butter 

Potatoes Pinch of salt 

1^ cups milk 

Brown several slices of onions in a casserole. Place a 
layer of potatoes partly cooked, sliced as for escallopes, over 
the onions. On this place a layer of canned salmon or fresh 
fish. Dots of butter should be used, little salt, as the 
salmon if used is already salted. Repeat until dish is full. 
Cover with bread crumbs. Put over all, one and one-half cups 
milk. Cook until potatoes can be pierced with a fork and top 
nicely browned. (Mrs. Thos. R. Robinson) 

CODFISH BALLS WITH RICE 

1 Va cups codfish 1 tablespoon vegetable fat 

1 cup hot mashed potatoes 1 well beaten egg 

1 cup hot boiled rice 3 teaspoons milk 

Mix together and make into balls. Fry in vegetable oil. 
Serve hot. 



The Big Four, a railroad |)hrase, now applies to the 
Food Administration — save Wheat, Meat. Fat, Sugar. 



34 



BAKED FISH 

Any large tish over tliree ))ouiuls. Clean and dry fish, 
rub with salt and flour; stuff with bread crumbs dressing, sea- 
soned with butter, salt, pepper and chopped pickle. Sew up 
opening and bake slowly, about one hour. Serve with IIol- 
landaise or any yellow sauce. 

RICE CODFISH PUDDING 

2 cups boiled rice Salt and ])epper 

IK' cups boiled and shredded l]/> cups milk 

codfish 2 tablespoons butter 

Grated cheese 

Stir in grated cheese and bake in baking dish thirty 
minutes. 

(Mrs. P. J. Eaton) 

GARNISH FOR FISH 

Slice cucumbers lengthwise rather than across, dip m 
]'"rench dressing and powder with chopped parsley. 

(Sweden) 

BAKED SALMON 

Put some fat in ])ottom of baking dish, add a layer of 
raw sliced onions. Fill the dish vvith alternate layers of raw 
potatoes and canned salmon ending with potatoes. Pour over 
all a cup and a half of milk with a little flour for thickening, 
also butter, salt and pepper. Bake half hour. 

(Mrs. W. H. Siviter) 

FISH SOUFFLE 

2 eggs 1 cup milk 

2 tablespoons nut margarine 2 teaspoons chopped parsley 

2 tablespoons flour 1 cup shredded fish 

1/2 teaspoon salt 

Make white sauce of margarine, flour, salt and milk; add 
fish, parsley and eggs beaten separately. Bake in ramikins 
until puffed and brown, about 20 minutes. Ramikin dishes 
should be placed in hot water. 

To the water in which fish is boiled add one-half lemon or 
a little vinegar. 

(Mrs. C. R. Peddle) 

CODFISH BALLS 

1 cup codfish boiled and 1 egg 

shredded 1 rounded tablespoon butter 

A little more than one cup Pepper and salt 
potatoes 

Mix all while hot. Drop from spoon into deep fat. 

(Mrs. A. G. Mitchell) 
35 



CREAMED SHAD ROE 

1 pair shad roe 1 saltspoonful cayenne 

1 tablespoon butter ^^ pint cream 

1 tablespoon flour Juice of ^ lemon 

1 teaspoon salt 3 hard boiled eggs 

Have shad roe parboiled, blanched, skinned and crumbled. 
Cream butter and flour together, put in chafingdish, when 
smooth, add cream, salt and cayenne. When a little thick 
add roe and lemon juice. Cook until it bubbles; add chopped 
whites of three hard-boiled eggs. Have yolks grated and 
sprinkle over the top. 

CORN MEAL FISH CAKES 

2 level cups of cornmeal mush 1 level teaspoon salt 

2 level cups shredded fish 1 level teaspoon baking powder 

1 egg, well beaten 

Mix shredded fish (cold cooked fresh cod or halibut are ex- 
cellent) with cornmeal mush; add egg well beaten, and baking 
powder. Drop by spoonsful into hot fat, on paper. 

li using salt fish, pick it over and soak two or three hours 
to remove salt, omitting salt from recipe. 

CLAM FRITTERS 

iVs cups flour 

2 teaspoons baking powder 
Salt and pepper 
Clean clams, drain and chop. Beat eggs until light, add milk 
and flour which has been mixed and sifted with baking powder. 
Season lightly with salt and pepper. Drop by teaspoonful and 
fry in deep fat. (Mrs. Walter C. Carroll) 

FISH PUDDING 

1 box salmon, or 1 to 2 lbs. Little chopped parsley, or 
fresh fish celery 

2 eggs 1 teaspoon lemon juice 
^ cup cold milk ^ cup cracker crumbs 

1 scant tablespoon baking 

powder 

Steam in individual molds 40 minutes. Keep liquor from can 
to make white sauce — with 1 cup milk add little lemon juice after 
cooking. 

"PLAN MEALS AND DO YOUR ORDERING 
AHEAD OF TIME." 

This helps your butcher, your baker and your grocery- 
man to have the right amount of material on hand. You 
avoid waste at home. 



1 


pint clams 


2 

2 


eggs 
cups milk 



LUNCHEON SARDINE DISH 

1 box sardines Sweitzer cheese 

Bread toasted on one side 
On the untoasted side of bread, spread the oil from the box 
of sardines. Place sardines on this side, and put under broiler 
until toast is brown. 

Serve with Sweitzer cheese — and jjarsley as a garnish. 

(Mrs. Guy Stewart McCabe) 

ESCALLOPED OYSTERS 

.As a change for sea.'^.onir.g in e.'-xalloped oysters, add a little 
mace, and jiour o\er the top either a glass of sherry or Mader.a 
wine. ( Mrs. Matjaw. Meadville. Penna.) 

PLANKED SHAD WITH CREAMED ROE 

Steam and split a roe shad. Put skin-side down on an oak 
plank 1 inch thick, sprinkle with salt and pepper and brush over 
with melted butter. Piake 25 minutes in a hot oven. 

Parboil roe in salted water (to which lemon juice has been 
added) for 20 minutes. Remove outsides membranes and mash. 
Melt 3 tablespoons of butter, add one teaspoon of linely chopped 
shallot and cook 5 minutes, add roe sprinkle with 1 tablespoon of 
flour, and pour on gradually Vs cup of cream. Cook slowly 5 
minutes, add yolks of 2 eggs, season highly with salt, pepper and 
lemon juice. Remove shad from the oven, spread thin ])art with 
roe mi.xture and cover with buttered crumbs. Garnish with 
mashed potatoes forced through a pastry bag and tube. Brush 
over with white of egg and return to oven to brown potato and 
crumbs. 

Garnish with tomato cucumber, parsley and lemon. 

(Mrs. Frederic Merrick) 

CRAB CROQUETTES 

4 cujjs boiled crab meat Cayenne pepper, salt 

1 cup rich milk 1 teaspoon cornstarch 

2 eggs Cracker dust 
2 teaspoons Worcestershire 

sauce 

Put milk in double lujiler, add corn starch and cook till thicK, 
add crab meat and seasoning, mould in balls dip in egg, roll in 
cracker dust and fry. 

LUNCHEON FISH DISH 

1 lb. halibut, white fish or 4 hard boiled eggs — cut in 
canned tuna fish, boiled eighths 

with a little chopped Teaspoon salt 

onion and salt Vj teaspoon paprika 

2 cups thick cream sauce 1 teaspoon finely chopped 

I)arsley 
Put lish and eggs with cream sauce in chafing dish, heat to 
rcalding point. Serve on slices of toast or toasted corn muffin^. 
Garnish with asparagus tips. (H. M. Dermitt) 

37 



Eggs 



EGGS AND CHEESE IN RAMIKINS 

Put in ramikin grated cheese on bottom, drop in egg (not 
beaten), pinch of salt, then layer of cheese. Sprinkle bread or 
cracker crumbs on top and a little butter. Bake until egg is 
cooked. 

HOMINY GRITS AND SCRAMBLED EGGS 

2 cups cold boiled hominy V2 cup milk 

4 eggs Pinch salt 

Mix and scramble in frying pan. 

(Mrs. J. M. Thorn and Mrs. Little) 

EGG TIMBALES 

3 well beaten eggs Salt and pepper 

Y4 cup milk A little grated onion 

1 teaspoon chopped parsley 

Bake 45 minutes in well buttered custard cups set in pan of 
hot water; when done, turn out on a chop-plate with cream 
sauce poured over and garnish with parsley. 

EGG CROQUETTES 

3 hard boiled eggs, chopped 1 tablespoon flour, milk 
1 teaspoon butter A little chopped parsley 

For sauce, blend butter and flour with milk" and a little 
chopped parsley ; add chopped eggs ; shape and set on ice for 
several hour^. Roll in egg and bread crumbs and fry in deep 
fat (Crisco). Makes only 4 or 5. (Mrs. M. E." Lee) 

EGG SOUFFLE 

5 eggs Pinch salt and pepper 
Yz cup cream 

Beat yolks and whites separately, add cream to yolks, then 
whites. Grease molds well and set in cold water in pan in oven. 
Bake about 5 minutes. Serve with tomato or cream sauce. Nice 
for individual molds. (Mrs. C. A. Rook) 

EGGS. 

Use left-over egg yolks for scrambled eggs for 
luncheon or breakfast ; add one whole egg and two tea- 
spoons milk for each yolk. 

Vegetables in small quantities left from dinner can 
be added to an omelette for breakfast, or used as flavor- 
ing for a meat sauce. 

40 



ITALIAN GNOCHI 

2 cups milk 4 eggs 

2 cups flour 1 tablespoon butter 

Let milk boil with butter, put flour in when boiling and stir 
until smooth; then take from the fire and put in the eggs, 
j'olks and whites beaten separately. Take a spoonful of this at 
a time and drop into boiling water: allow eacli to remain until 
it rises to the top of the water; then place them in a baking 
dish in which has been put a little white sauce; pour more over 
the top, sprinkle a little Parmesan cheese on the top and 
hake for \() or 15 minutes, and serve in baking dish. 

(Mrs. Frederic I. Merrick) 

BLOCKED EGGS 

8 eggs Salt and pepper 

1 cup sour cream Cream sauce 

For eight people, beat up eight eggs in a l)owl, add Vi 
cup cream just turned sour, and season well with salt and 
pepper. Fill some little baking dishes and bake in a slow 
oven, like souftles. 

Make a cream sauce of milk and flour, add Vz cup sour 
cream, tip the contents of the baking dishes into the sauce, 
and serve at once. They will flatten to an inch thick. 

EGG FOR AN INVALID 

Make a iiest of the stiffly beaten white, of an egg, on a 
.'square of toasted white or graham bread. Drop the yolk in 
the nest, pour over it a tablespoon of rich cream and set for 

3 minutes in a quick oven. (Mrs Frederic I. Merrick) 

KIDNEY OMELET 

2 lamb kidneys or two table- 6 eggs 

spoon calves' kidneys Pepper and salt 

Beat the eggs, adding seasoning. Cut the kidneys in very 
small pieces, toss in hot dripping in a frjnng pan for several 
minutes until quite cooked. In a second frying pan, put a 
tablespoon of hot butter into which pour the beaten eggs. 
Immediately put the ininced kidney over the eggs and as the 
omelette begins to set, roll the edges until it just meets but 
do not turn over. Have a garnished platter ready and serve 



OMELET 

4 eggs or more 1 pint white sauce 

Beat whites and yolks of eggs separately. Stir yolks to 
which a pinch of salt has been added into the hot wdiite sauce. 
Fold whites in carefully. Cook in skillet on top of stove. 
Put in oven a few minutes. 



CHEESE OMELET 

1 heaping talilespoon instan- J/^ teaspoon mustard 
taneous tapioca 1 cup hot milk 

V2 teaspoon salt IJ/2 tablespoons olive oil or other 

% teaspoon pepper or paprika cooking oil 

2 tablespoons grated cheese 2 eggs 

Cook the tapioca, salt, pepper, cheese and mustard in 
the hot milk for ten minutes, stirring frequently, then add 
J/2 tablespoon of the oil and the yolks of the eggs beaten 
until very light. Stir well, remove from the fire and fold 
into the stiffly beaten whites of the eggs. I^it the remainder 
of the oil into an omelet pan and when it bubbles pour in 
the prepared eggs. Shake the pan gently so that the omelet 
will not adhere to it and cook until it is a delicate brown 
(-n the bottom, then stand the pan in the oven for a few 
moments to cook the top. Score the center and fold over. 



Salt increases the intensity of cold. Add a pinch of 
salt when beating eggs. 



42 



Meats and Meat Substitutes 



GARNISH FOR COLD LAMB 

Tiny half tomatoes scooped and filled with cold green peas 
and finely diced potatoes that have been marinated either with 
cream or French dressing. (Savoy Hotel, London) 

GARNISH FOR HAM 

Cold boiled eggs. Remove yolks and fill with spinach 
which has been rubbed through a colander and mixed with 
whipped cream. (Savoy Hotel, London) 

MOCK DUCK 

Take large round steak, make poultry stuffing, spread on 
steak roll and tie, roast from V^ to ^ hours. 

(Mrs. A. M. Imbria) 

"CHEAP CUTS" OF STEAK 

r tablespoon butter (or substi- 2 cups cold water 

tute) Onion 

1 heaping tablespoon flour 

Make a smooth gravy of these ingredients, put steak into 
this, pour over it a little vinegar, sprinkle with salt and peppc. 
Cut onion in small pieces, put around steak, cover, cook in 
oven 1 hour. 

LIBERTY MEAT 

3 pints cooked cornmeal % cup peanut butter 

1 cup chopped English wal- 3 tablespoons any good oil 
nuts Season to taste 

Mold and cut into slices when cold. Fry in verv little 
fat. (Mrs. Robert Miller) 

BEAN LOAF 

2 cups, cold baked beans 2 teaspoons catsup 
1 egg, beaten Salt and pepper 

1 cup bread crumbs V2. red pepper, chopped 

1 teaspoon minced onion 

Combine ingredients and shape into a loaf. Bake ^/^ hour. 
Serve with strips of boiled bacon on top. ( L. B. M.) 



"LEARN TO USE THE VEGETABLE OILS." 

Use corn oil, cottonseed oil, peanut oil and olive oil 
for cooking and frying as well as in salad dressings. 

44 



BRAZILIAN TURKEY 

1 lb. dry war bread 6 tablespoons olive oil or sub- 

2 cups coarsely chopped cream stitute 

nuts 1 teaspoon sage 

1 large onion chopped fine 4 eggs 

Salt and pepper 

Moisten bread in milk, add nuts, onion, oil, sage and 
seasoning. Mix thoroughly, add 4 well beaten eggs and bake 
in well oiled dish for 2 hours. Garnish with parsley and serve 
This is delicious served cold. (Miss Margaretta Dihni) 

HOMINY AND CHIPPED BEEF 

5 cups cooked hominy 2 cups milk 

4 potatoes 2 tablespoons vegetable fat 

2 cups cooked carrots 2 tablespoons flour or corn- 

1 . teaspoon salt starch 
%. lb. dried beef 

Melt the fat, add the flour, then the cold milk and stir 
until it thickens. Cut the potatoes and carrots in dice, mix 
all the materials in a baking dish, and bake for one hour. 

CAMOUFLAGE ROAST 

2 cups bread crumbs 1 small grated onion 

1 cup peanuts (ground orl teaspoon butter substitute 

pounded fine) 1 egg 

Juice of half a lemon 1 cup milk 

A pinch of mace 1 teaspoon flour or cornstarch 

Stir flour into melted butter substitute, add milk and onion, 
and bring to a boil; add nuts and bread crumbs; remove from 
fire; add lemon juice, egg and mace. Bake in a buttered 
pudding dish till brown and serve with tomato sauce. 

CREAMED HAM 

3 tablespoons butter 1 gill cream 

3 tablespoons grated cheese Salt and Cayenne 

3 tablespoons grated ham 

Mix butter and cheese, let it melt, add ham, cream, salt 
and pepper. 



"MAKE THE NEW FOODS APPETIZING 

AND ATTRACTIVE." 

By means of garnishes, sauces and judicious seasoning 
and flavoring, the housewife can make her family vote 
themselves in favor of the new foods. Conversion in 
this case is patriotism. 



ROYAL ESCALLOP 

1 cup boiled ham, chopped 1 tablespoon butter 

6 hard Ijoiled e.s>gs. chop])ed 1 taldespoon flour 

1 pint milk 

Make ot these a white sauce. Season with paprika, mix 
yll together, place cracker crumbs on top, and bake one-half 
hou;. (Mrs. Wesley G. Carrj 

ONION SOUP AU GRATIN 
In Casserole. 

1 qt. stock seasoned with salt 1 full tablespoon Hour 

and pepper Parmesan cheese 

1 tablespoon butter Toasted bread 

3 onions, sliced thin 

Frv onions in the butter, add flour and stock and cook 
on stove for V2 hour or more. Sprinkle bottom of casserole 
with Parmesan cheese, pour in stock. Sprinkle more cheese, 
then place enough pieces of bread, thoroughly toasted or 
browned in oven, to cover stock. Sprinkle more cheese on 
toast and place casserole in oven for V2 hour or more. 

(Mrs. Wesley G. Carr) 

BEEF CROQUETTES 

1 lb. beef, boiled well (minced) 1 tablespoon parsley (powdered 

1 cup (coffee cup size) cold or minced) 

beef Dash Cayenne pepper 

2 slices onion 

Let 1 pint milk, or cream, come to boiling point, then 
add a tablespoon of cold butter, then the above mixture. 

Beat up two eggs and mix with large tablespoon of starch 
(or flour) and add to the rest. Cook it all, stirring with care 
until proper consistency. Remove from fire, spread on platter 
to cool: then miake into croquettes — roll in bread crumbs and 
try in wire basket — in hot fat. 

This amount makes 12 croquettes. 

(Miss Bertha Young) 

HAM MOUSSE 

2 cups cooked ham chopped V2 cup Aspic jelly, or 1 tea- 
fine spoon gelatine dissolved in 
1 teaspoon mustard V2 cup hot water 
^ teaspoon onion juice V2 cup whipped cream 

Dash red pepper 
Put on ice for 2 hours, serve cold. 

(Mrs. W\ C. Carroll) 

CORNMEAL AND MEAT 

Cornmeal is good combined with meats. Such a dish is 
a meal in itself. Trj^ this one. 



TAMALE PIE 

2 cups cornineal 1 onion 

6 cups boiling water 2 cups tomatoes 

1 tablespoon fat 1 pound hamburger steak 

Make a mush by stirring the corn meal and 1% teaspoons 
salt into boiling water. Cook 4t minutes. P.rown onion in 
fat. add hamburger and stir until red color disappears. Add 
salt, penper, and tomato. .A sweet pepper is an addition. 
Crease baking dish, put in layer of cornmeal nuish, add sea- 
';oned meat, and cover witli mush. I'ake one-half hour. Serves 
.six. (Original) 

YORKSHIRE PUDDING 

1 pt. milk 2 cups Hour 

4 eggs, beaten separately 1 teaspoon salt 

Note. — Be careful not to have the batter too stiff. 

34 of an hour before the roast of beef is done drain the 
*at out of the pan, leaving just enough to keep the batter from 
sticking. Bake ^ of an hour. This should be a golden brown. 

(Mrs. A. G. Mitchell) 



ITALIAN SPAGHETTI 

1 Ih. Hamburg steak 1 good-sized onion 

1 can tomatoes 

Jioil together slowly al)out three hours. 

1 lb. spaghetti 3 tablespoons olive oil 

Boil spaghetti in salt water. Put olive oil into meat, etc. 
Add spaghetti. C"ook a minute or two. Serve with grated 
cheese. 

BEEF OLIVES 

Have a round steak cut very thin, cut into pieces 6 or 8 
inches square. 

Make a poultry l)read stuffing, put a tablespoonful on eacli 
piece of meat, roll and tie with strong thread. 

Fry bacon in a skillet, add in meat, and fry I^rown. Place 
meat in sauce pan. Make enough gravy in the skillet to cover 
meat. Pour gravy over meat and cook slowly for 2 hours. 
A good way to use tough meat. (Mrs. S. .A. Brubaker) 



MOCK SAUSAGE 

Soak one cup lima beans over niglit, boil until very soft, 
drain and mash, season with salt, pepper and a half a tea- 
spoonful each of powdered sage, thyme and sweet marjoram: 
make into rolls ^about the size of a finger; roll in flour and 
frv a golden brown in corn or other vegetable oil. 



HOMINY AND TOMATO 

2 cups lye hominy or coarse 2 tablespoon? Hour 

cracked hominy, boiled V2 teaspoon f.alt 

1 cup canned tomatoes Few grains pepper 

2 tablespoons fat Dry bread crumbs 

Meat fat in a saucepan, .stir in the flour, and then the to- 
mato, strained, salt and pepper. Combine with the hominy, 
pour into a buttered baking disli, cover with bread crumbs 
mixed with a little melted butter, and bake 30 minutes in 
a moderate oven. A tablespoon of scraped onion may be 
added if desired. Enough for six small servings. 

(Good Housekeeping) 

TOMATO CAKES 

4 eggs about Z cups cracker 

2 cups canned tomatoes crumbs 

3 talilespoons shortening ^ teaspoon pepper 

2 teaspoons salt 

Beat eggs light, add tomatoes and shortening melted, pep- 
per and salt. Stir in cracker crumbs to make it stiff enough 
to drop liy the tablespoon on a hot griddle. Brown on both 
sides and serve at once. (Mrs. Edward J. House) 



GREEN PEA LOAF 

1% cups cooked peas rubbedl egg, slightly l)eaten 

through a sieve 1 slice chopped onion 

1 1/2 cups bread crumbs Salt and pepper to taste 

1 V2 cups milk 

Scald the milk, add the onion, bread crumbs, peas and 
egg. Season to taste. Bake in a l)uttered baking dish or 
timbale molds in a moderate oven until brown — about 20 min- 
utes. Beans, mashed carrots, fish or corn may be used in- 
stead of peas. 



BEAN OR PEA LOAF 

■34 cup dried beans or peas 1 egg 

1-!?^ cups milk ^ teaspoon salt 

1 chopped onion 14 teaspoon pepTre"r 

iy2 cups stale bread crumbs 

Soak dried beans or peas over night; in the morning sim- 
mer until tender in the water in which they have been soiaked, 
letting the water evaporate at the end of cooking, since, if 
ihrown away you will lose so)me of the' valuable mineral mat- 
ter in the vegetable. Rub cooked beans through sieve. Scaid 
milk and add finely chopped onion, bread crumbs, strained 
beans and egg. Season to taste. Fill greased baking dish two- 
thirds full or use individual molds. Bake in moderate oven 
until firm to touch (2!) minutes). Serve with pimento or to- 
mato sauce. 

48 



NUT SCRAPPLE 

2 quarts boiling water 1 tablespoon salt 

2 cups cornmeal 2 cups nut meats 
1 cup hominy grits 

Cook cornineal and homin\' together in water for 20 min- 
utes. Add salt and cook until all water has absorbed. Add 
chopped nuts, and pour into greased bread pan. When cool, 
cut in slices and fry in vegetable oil. Serve either with or 
without syrup. 

MOCK TERRAPIN 

1 teaspoon mustard lUitter size of an egg ■ 
Dash cayenne Cup water 

3 hard boiled eggs, chopped 

Season and fry brown, calves liver. When cooked hash 
fine and dust thick with flour. 

Cook a little then add liver and cook a few minutes longer. 

(Mrs. C. A. Cook) 

SHEPHERD'S PIE 

2 cups cold meat 1 large onion 

4 medium sized potatoes Pepper and salt 

Cut cold meat into small pieces. Place in dish with minced 
onion, seasoning to taste and barely covering with water. 
Cover and simmer on top of range for an hour. The addition 
of gravy left from a previous meal adds to the flavor, but a 
little flour thickening answers the same purpose. Twenty 
minutes before serving press the boiled potatoes through a 
ricer onto the meat and brown in the oven. Serve w-ith pickles 
or tomato catsup. 

MINCED LIVER WITH TOAST 

2 lbs. beef liver I'epper and salt 

I oz. butter Toast 

Boil the liver for half an hour with salt. When done re- 
move skin. Chop very fine. Put in frying pan and cover 
with water. Simmer gently for fifteen minutes, thicken slightly 
with flour, adding butter and seasoning. Serve on hot platter, 
garnished with parsley and triangles of toast. 

SPANISH RICE 

1 onion ':; cup rice 

1 pepper (mix until well J4 Ih- cheese 

heated over fire) 1 cup solid tomatoes 

1 tablespoon fat 1 teaspoon salt 

Boil the rice, mix with tomatoes and salt, then add the 
onions, pepper and fat. Bake 20 minutes, grating cheese on 
top. 

49 



WAR MEAT SUBSTITUTE 

1 cup lentils 1 ba}' leaf 

1 cup rice V2 tablespoon curry powder 

1 can tomatoes 1 tablespoon fat 

1 large onion Salt and iieiiper 

Soak lentils over night. Change the water and boil 
until soft. Cook rice well. Boil tomato, bay leaf, and onion 
until reduced one-half. Strain, add fat and curry powder, salt 
and pepper. Put lentils and rice in dish and mix with sauce. 
Serve very hot. (Mrs. J. J. Miller) 



MEAT LOAF 

1 lb. chopped meat (any cheap 1 cup thick white sauce 
cut) Salt and pepper 

2 cups soft bread crumbs (or 
less of dry ones) 

Mix ingredients thoroughly. Form into loaf. Bake ii 
moderate oven 2 hours. If you use left-over meat bake onl; 
45 minutes. 



FOR SAUCE 

1 cup milk or stock 2 tablespoons drippings 

3V2 tablespoons flour ^ teaspoon salt 



SCALLOPED BEEF OR LAMB 

1 teaspoon browned butter 

Cut cold meat in small pieces, put in baking pan. Make 
sauce from bones and gravy, add chopped parsley and 1 table- 
spoon Worcestershire sauce. Mix some bread crumbs with browned 
butter and sprinkle on top and bake. 



CROQUETTES WITHOUT EGGS 

1 cup finely cut meat or fish 2 teaspoons onion juice 

1 cup scalded milk V2 teaspoon salt 

1 tablespoon butter substitute yi teaspoon celery salt 

2 teaspoons flour (heaping) ^4 teaspoon pepper 

Cream flour and butter. Stir in milk, add seasoning and 
meat. Cook until thick. Set away in flat dish at least two 
hours. When firm form into croquettes. Roll in yolk of egg, 
then in bread crumbs. Fry in deep fat. 

50 



"LALLA ROOKH" 

A baked dish for luncheon or dinner in which may be 
used various left-overs to great advantage The blending of 
several flavors improves the taste. 

Butter a casserole or any baking dish, sprinkle into it a 
layer of any finely minced pieces of beef, lamb or fish, season 
well with salt and pepper, a dash of poultry seasoning, or a 
slice of onion and parsley as preferred. Over this pour a few 
spoonsful of gravy or stock and a little grated cheese, or better 
still, macaroni cooked with cheese, or in war times, use rice 
cooked with cheese. Then a layer of tomatoes, over which 
pour more gravy or stock, topping with a layer of dry crumbs, 
dotted over with butter or fat. and bake thoroughly until all 
is bubbling and the top is nicely browned. Serve in the dish 
in which it is cooked. 

This can also be baked in ramikins and can be varied by 
the use of different condiments to suit any taste. 

(Mrs. A. M. Kingsbury) 



CORN BEEF HASH 

1 pint cooked^ chopped meat 4 tablespoons butter 
^ pint cooked chopped po- 2 tablespoons chopped onions 
tatoes 

Turn hash and i)otatoes into I)Uttcr and onions and mix 
thoroughly; season well. Add V2 cup water, cover and cook 
slowly 1/2 hour in skillet or until brown crust has formed on 
bottom. Loosen, turn over like an omelet on hot plate gar- 
nished with parsley. (Mrs. Claude F. Pugh) 



RICE AND BREAD, MEAT SUBSTITUTE 

2 cups cooked rice 2 tablespoons white sauce 

2 cups bread crumbs 1 cup chopped walnuts 

2 eggs 

Form into loaf, cover with bread crumbs and bake. 
When ready to serve, insert well into center of loaf 2 hard- 
boiled eggs, (these may be omitted) 

(Mrs. T. D. Chantler) 



DELICIOUS STUFFED PEPPERS 

Cut tops off of green peppers. ])ar-boil until tender; fill 
with chopped meat onions, tomatoes and cracker crumbs. 
Sprinkle grated cheese over top and bake 20 minutes; have 
hot salted water in the pan and baste while cooking. 

Every particle of the pepper is eaten when cooked this 
waj^ (Mrs. \Vm. H. Latshaw) 

51 



BAKED HAM IN MILK 

vSlice of ham 1% inch, thick Brown sugar 
Must&rd 

Rub ham with dry mustard. Put in pan and sprinkle brown 
sugar over meat. Fill pan with milk. Cook slowly 1% hours. 
Serve without sauce. (Mrs. C. I. McKee) 

PORK CROQUETTE 

1 cup chopped roast pork 1 tablespoon mustard 

Yz cup mashed potatoes Nutmeg, parsley, red and 

1 tablespoon butter black pepper 

Yz tablespoon onion juice 

Mix with cream sauce and mold. 

(Mrs. C. I. McKee) 

ROLLED STEAK AND VEGETABLES 

XYi lbs. lean round steak (1 slice) 1 cup peas 

1 cup diced carrots 1 onion sliced and fried 

1 cup diced turnips 1 can tomatoes 

Lay meat fiat and cover Avith carrots, turnips, peas, and 
onion. Roll and tie. Place in pan, cover with tomato, adding 
enough water to make gravy. Bake one hour in a moderate 
oven. 



Have stews at least once a week. They can be made 
appetizing and in varied ways. Select some particular 
vegetable for the chief flavor, subordinating the others 
to it. Thicken it one week with rice, the next with 
barley, next with macaroni. 



52 



Vegetables 

POTATOES 

The free use of ]>otatoes in tlie diet will save bread and 
thus save wheat. 

SPINACH WITH MUSHROOMS 

Cook spinach; chop very fine and season. Prepare the 
mushrooms and cook until tender. Make a cream sauce. Place 
the spinach in a baking dish with mushrooms and cream sauce 
in the center. Sprinkle cracker crumbs over all. 

I'ut in oven for a moment and serve liot. 

POTATO CROQUETTES 

2 cui)s cold potatoes Yolks of 2 eggs 

1 talilespoon chopped parsley 1 teas])oon salt 
1 teaspoon onion juice, if de- 
sired 

Unless cold mashed potatoes are used, 1 tables])oon butter 
and 2 of cream. 

To potatoes add yolks of eggs, butter and cream (if used) 
and juice of an onion obtained b}' cutting the onion in halves 
and pressing on grater; add parsley, nutmeg (if desired) a 
sprinkling of cayenne pepper. Put on stove and cook until 
mixture leaves side of vessel. 

I'orm croquettes by rolling 1 tablespoon of the mixture 
in flour; to each white of egg add 1 tablespoon hot water. 
Roll croquettes in the egg and water; then bread or cracker 
cruml)s. Cook in hot lard. When croquette comes to the 
toj) it is done. 

RICE PUFFS 

1 pint cold cooked rice 1 tablespoon sugar 

1 cup milk 1 tal)lespoon baking ])o\vder 

?i well beaten eggs Pinch salt 

1 tal)Iespoon melted l)utter 

Flour to make batter stiflf enough to drop from spoon. 
Fry in deep fat. Serve with Maryland sauce. 

(Mrs. S. A. Pickering) 

STUFFED EGG PLANT 

Cut in lialves lengthwise; do not pare. Bake in moderate 
oven until soft. Remove center and season to taste. Have 
ready some cooked mushrooms; chop and mix with egg plant. 
Place mixture in egg plant shells, sprinkle with cracker crumbs. 
Return to oven until hot. Serve hot on garnished platter. 

Peel potatoes after cooking — valuable minerals and 
salts are wasted when pared raw. 



BEETS WITH CREAM DRESSING 

Boil about two bunches of beets without breaking ofif the 
roots and leaving good piece of stem to retain color and 
sweetness. Do not prick with fork. 

Peel, cut in squares, sprinkle with a little flour and pour 
over the following in order given: 

1 tablespoon vinegar Pepper 

1 tablespoon sugar % cup cream 

1 tablespoon salt 

Sugar is important as it prevents curdling of cream. 

(Mrs. W. H. R. Hilliard) 

HOMINY CROQUETTES 

1 cup hominy grits 1 egg 

3 cups boiling salted water 1 cup white sauce 

Boil hominy in water 5 minutes, then put in double boiler 
and cook for 2 hours. Add egg well beaten to white sauce. 
Form into croquettes; roll in egg and bread crumbs and fry 
in deep fat. This makes 12 croquettes. 

(Mrs. Joseph Burti 

VEGETABLE SOUFFLE 

% cup butter 1 cup cooked vegetables (car- 

54' cup flour rots, turnips or onions) 

Vs cup cream rul)bed through sieve 

% cup stock 3 eggs, yolks and whites 

Salt and pepper 

Melt butter, add flour and pour in gradually cream and 
water. Add vegetables, yolks of eggs beaten till thick and 
fold in whites beaten stiff. Add seasonings. Bake slowly in 
buttered baking dish. (Lyda Hanna Findley) 

BAKED CABBAGE 

3 heads cabbage 1 teaspoon dry mustard 
1 tablespoon flour -^^ cup cold water 

1>2 teaspoons salt 6 slices thin bacon 
Paprika to taste 

Shred or chop cabbage; stir into it flour, salt, paprika, 
water. Mix thoroughly. Put in baking dish or casserole. Lay 
over top the bacon, cover tightly, bake in hot oven about an 
hour with cover on. Remove cover for few minutes until 
brown. (Mrs. T. J. Gillespie) 



When cooking cauliflower do not discard tender 
leaves or stalk. Cut leaves in two, pare and slice the 
stock ; cook with cauliflower ; save these with the water 
in which they are cooked, and use next day for soup. 

55 



BAKED EGG PLANT 

] egg plant 3 hard-hoilcd eggs, chopped 

V2 cup butter fine 

Equal parts l)read crumbs .Salt and pepper 

and egg plant y, cup butter 

Pare egg plant, cut in quarters and boil in water without 
salt until tender. Drain and wash, seasoning well. Mix witli 
other ingredients chopped fine, put in baking dish, cover with 
bread crumbs that have been rubbed in melted butter. Bake 
until tender, about V2 hour. 



STUFFED EGG PLANT 

Cut lengthwise 1 egg plant; take out inside meat and grind 
through a meat grinder. 

3 or 4 slices bread A little butter 

Salt and pepper 

Mix all together, fill skins and place in a pan with a little 
hot water. Bake 1 hour. (Mrs. R. P. McChesney) 



BAKED HOMINY 

Cook coarse hominy in a double boiler about half a day. 
Put in baking dish and' bake as for macaroni au gratin. Make 
white sauce in which cheese has been melted: pour this over 
hominy, put grated cheese and buttered bread crumbs on top 
and bake. (Mrs. VVm. H. Siviter) 



SWEET FRIED CABBAGE 

Cut cabbage .as for cold slaw. Pour boiling water over 
it; let stand a few minutes; strain. Place in skillet some frying 
fat, then the cabbage. Cover and let steam V2 hour. 

Make a sauce of 1 tablespoon fat. 1 tablespoon brown 
sugar, 2 tablespoons vinegar. Sprinkle some flour, salt and 
pepper over cabbage. Pour over this the sauce, cover, let 
steam 10 minutes, adding a little water if necessarv. 



CORN FRITTERS 

To 1 cup grated corn, add 1 well beaten egg, 1 heapin"- 
tablespoon flour, 1 level teaspoon salt. Mix thoroughly and 
fry HI butter and lard in proportions of one to three, until light 
brown on both sides. 

When fresh corn is not in season, Cornlet makes a fair 
^"^stitute. (Mrs. J. C. Anderson) 



BAKED BERMUDA ONIONS 

5 Bermuda onions; boil in salted water about an bour; 
when cool, cut in balf, remove part of center, chop, mix with 
salt and pepper and a little chopped boiled ham; add the 
beaten yolk of an egg, 2 tablespoons cream and fill onions 
with the mixture; bake slowly and before serving pour over 
onions a cream sauce. (Mrs. C. R. Peddle l 



GREEN CORN FRITTERS 

8 ears green corn; score grain with sharp knife and press 
from husk with the blunt edge of a silver knife: add salt, 1 
teaspoon melted butter and 1 egg, white and yolk beaten to- 
gether. Drop by teaspoon on greased griddle and brown. 
Do not use any flour. (Mrs. C. R. Peddle) 



PARSNIP FRITTERS 

Parsnips About 3 tablespoons flour (or 

2 well beaten eggs until batter drops from 

1 teaspoon salt spoon ) 
1 cup milk 

Either grate the raw parsnips on a coarse grater, or boil 
until tender and rub fine, having taken out the heart before 
cooking. 

Make a batter of the eggs, salt, milk and tlour; beat the 
parsnips into this and fry in deep fat. 

(Mrs. T., Meadville) 



DUTCH POTATO CAKES 

6 good sized potatoes 1 teaspoon salt 

2 eggs 

Peel and grate potatoes, stir in eggs and salt. Pour into 
a hot, well-buttered spider. 'Purn and brown again. Make into 
small cakes. (L.B.M.) 



SPINACH MOULD 

3/2 peck s])inacli Ijoiled in salt 1 egg. beaten 

water, drained and chopped. Salt and pepper to taste 

or Juice of 1 lemon squeezed 

1 can spinach drained and into beaten egg 

chopped V2 cup milk 

1 tablespoon tlour, browned 

Mix all ingredients together, adding milk just before put- 
ting into oven. Butter mould; set in pan of water and bake V2 
hour. 

58 



MACARONI 

^ lb. macaroni Volk of egg 

Pinch of mace Butter, size of walnut 

Vi cup cream Pinch of salt 

1 teaspoon flour . Grated cheese 

Boil the macaroni y^ hour In water m which has heen 
added mace and salt. Have ready a sauce made of the other 
ingredients; put macaroni in baking dish. Pour sauce over 
it; grate cheese on top and brown in oven. 

(Dr. Green, Meadville) 

STUFFED ONIONS 

Onions Bread crumbs 

Hard boiled eggs Bacon 

Salt and pepper 

Parboil onions, remove insides, chop the insides of onions 
with hard boiled eggs, salt and pepper. Fill the shells, pour 
into each about a teaspoon of any soup stock. Bread crumbs 
on top. Place in a shallow pan with a little water in bottom. 
.\ piece of bacon on top of each onion adds to the flavor. 
I>ake until onions are tender. (Mrs. Walter C. Carroll) 

• 

STEWED MUSHROOMS 

1 qt. mushrooms Butter size of an egg 

Enough rich cream or milk Pepper and salt 
to float mushrooms Flour enough to thicken milk 

Carefully pick over mushrooms and skin. Boil in water 
10 minutes; pour off the liquor; add sauce made of the other 
ingredients. Let all boil for a few minutes and serve on toast. 

Always cook mushrooms with a silver spoon. If not the 
true article the silver w-ill tarnish. 

(Mrs. M. C. Thorp, Meadville) 



Always have baked vegetables (potatoes, tomatoes, 
macaroni, onions) when using the oven for roast meats. 
String beans, lima beans, beets and many other 
vegetables can be baked — with water to cover — in cas- 
seroles or covered pans. If onions are not included, a 
baked dessert can also be planned — apples, cottage pud- 
ding, custard, tapioca, etc. 



59 



Cheese 



MACARONI, CHEESE AND TOMATO 

4 oz. elbow macaroni V2 cup grated cheese 

1 small can tomato soup 1 large tablespoon butter 

Wash macaroni in cold water and put in double boiler, 
cover with hot water, let steam 20 minutes. Pour ofif this 
water, replace in boiler with V2 cup hot water and cook till 
tender. When nearly cooked, add cheese and butter to the 
tomato soup which has been heated in a separate sauce pan. 
When about to serve, pour tomato sauce over macaroni, toss 
lightly. Be sure the sauce is sufficiently seasoned with salt 
and pepper. Serve very hot. 

(Mrs. John .A. Murtland) 

CREOLE MACARONI 

4 oz. macaroni 2 onions 

J/2 can tomatoes Ham or bacon 

Wash macaroni, place in double boiler and steam until ten- 
der, with onions and salt to taste. (Sufficient water will re- 
main on macaroni to steam). 

When half cooked, add the Vz can of tomatoes and any 
pieces of fried ham or bacon that may have been left over from 
previous meals. Cut in dice. Be sure it is juicy. Do not allow 
the macaroni to cook until it is very soft. Season to taste. 

WAR FRENCH FRIED POTATOES 

First: Scrub the potatoes well. When peeling potatoes 
save the peels, put in cold water over night. Change water in 
the morning and treat as you would I'Vench fried potatoes. 
Drop in deep fat. These are delicious. 

(Mrs. E. S. Hulse) 

ONIONS ON TOAST 

Cut young onions a good length. Cook till tender. Serve 
on toast, with either butter or cream dressing. 

CHEESE SOUFFLE 

2 cups cheese finely crumbled 2 eggs 

2 cups bread crumbs Salt and pepper 

2 cups milk 1 tablespoon melted butter 

Heat milk in double boiler. Put into it the cheese and 
bread crumbs and place where it will keep hot until the cheese 
is melted. Add seasonings, beaten eggs and butter. Bake in 
a buttered dish about half hour. 

(Miss Anna Dake McCague) 

61 



ENGLISH MONKEY 

1 cup bread crumbs soaked in 1 egg, yolk 
milk 20 minutes 1 tablespoon butter 

1 cup cheese, cut fine 

Add egg to crumbs and milk. Melt butter in skillet and 
add cheese, and when melted smooth, add the bread crumbs, 
and stir. If too thick, add more milk. Serve on crisp salted 
crackers, or thin toast. Nice to serve with afternoon tea. 

(Mrs. Herbert Byram) 

BREAD AND CHEESE 

6 slices bread, buttered and 1 teaspoon salt 

diced I4 teaspoon mustard 

Cheese grated Speck Cayenne 

2 cups milk 3 beaten eggs 

Alternate bread and cheese in baking dish, beginning with 
bread and ending with cheese. 

Pour over top 1 cupful of milk and let stand half hour or 
more. 

In 1 cupful milk mix the other ingredients. Pour over top 
just before baking. 
Bake 20 minutes. 

(Mrs. Walter C. Carroll) 

BAKED HOMINY AND CHEESE 

1 tablespoon shortening (ba- Use either 1 cup or ^ cup 

con fat or lard) cheese (according to 

1 tablespoon corn starch cheese) 

1 cup milk 2 cups cooked hominy 

Salt % cup bread crumbs 

Make sauce of shortening, salt, corn starch and milk, add 
cheese and hominy. Place in dish, cover with crumbs, bake 
until brown. 

(Mrs. D. M. Buck) 

BAKED RICE AU GRATIN 

Rice Grated cheese 

1 cup beef stock 

Take well cooked rice, put into baking dish and cover en- 
tirely with beef stock, sprinkle with grated cheese and leave in 
moderate oven until well browned. 

(Miss Addah Gerdes) 

CHEESE ON TOAST 

1 tablespoon butter 1 cup grated cheese 

] tablespoon flour J^ teaspoon salt 

1 cup milk 54 teaspoon pepper 

Cook and serve on toast. (Mrs. A. G. Mitchell) 

62 



Salads 



FRUIT GELATINE SALAD 

1 envelope Knox granulated 5 slices cut pineapple 

gelatine 2 oranges 
1 cup cold water 1/2 grape fruit 

Juice from can of pineapple 1 lb. seeded and skinned 
^ cup sugar green grapes 

Dissolve gelatine in cold water, add enough water to pine- 
apple juice to make 1 pt. juice. Boil juice with sugar, add 
gelatine, set awa\' to cool. When it begins to stiffen add pulp 
of pineapple, oranges, grapefruit and grapes. Turn into ring 
mold. Serve with lettuce and oil mayonnaise. 

(Mrs. Claude F. Pugh) 

FROZEN TOMATO JELLY 

1 can tomatoes Mayonnaise 

Salt Whipped cream or whites of 

Some stalks of celery 2 eggs beaten stiff 

Onion 

Boil tomatoes, celery, onion, salt together, strain and cool. 
Put into freezer. When the consistency of w-ater-ice, fold in 
a little mayonnaise into which you have first added cream or 
eggs. Put into mould and freeze. 

(Mrs. T. D. Chantler) 

FROZEN FRUIT SALAD 

Sections of grape fruit, orange, canned peaches, pineapple 
and any other fruits desired. Sweet fruits prepared, also mar- 
aschino cherries. Mix with mayonnaise, that has been mixed 
half and half with very stiff whipped cream. Put in mould 
and pack in ice and rock salt for two hours, or more. 

(Louise M. Packard) 

TOMATO JELLY SALAD 

Strain liquor from can of tomatoes (about 2 cups). 

3 cloves 1 teaspoon salt 

1 Bay leaf 1 teaspoon sugar 

1/2 teaspoon thyme V2 teaspoon pepper 

% teaspoon onion juice 

boil five minutes, strain. 

Add y2 oz. gelatine that has been soaked in >< cup of 
water. Strain again and pour into individual molds. This 
salad is delicious if celery and olives are added when gelatine 
is partlv stiff. 

(Mrs. Walter C. Carroll) 

64 



APPLE AND DATE SALAD 

4 apples '/J cu]) chopped English vval- 

12 dates nuts 

Mayonnaise 

Cut apples and dates in small pieces, mix with oil mayon- 
naise, sprinkle nuts on top. Serve on lettuce. This amount 
will serve six. 

(Mrs. G. K. Grubbs) 

GRAPEFRUIT, ORANGE AND NUT SALAD 

Arrange sections of grapefruit and oranges like the petals 
of a flower, on a round dish, covered with lettuce. In the cen- 
ter put English walnuts meats that have been broken in quar- 
ters. Pour over a little French dressing, to which has been 
added a little sugar and tomato catsup. 

PINEAPPLE SALAD WITH GOLDEN DRESSING 

6 slices of canned jjincapple Cream or Xeuscliatel cheese 

6 large Maraschino cherries Lettuce heart 

.\rrange the salad individually; i)lace a slice of pdneapple 
on each nest of lettuce leaves. Sprinkle with cheese which has 
been put through a potato ricer, and fill the hole in the pine- 
apple slices with cherries. 

Serve with golden dressing. 

GOLDEN DRESSING 

J4 cup pineapple juice 2 eggs 

% cup orange juice ^ cup sugar 

% cup lemon juice V2 cup heavy cream 

Heat the fruit juices in double boiler. Beat eggs light, 
gradually adding sugar; combine wiith the hot juice and cook 
to the consistency of custard. Remove to a dish of cold water; 
i;eat until cool and then fold in cream whipped stiff. The 
aressing may be made beforehand, and the whipped cream 
added just before serving. This dressing is suitable to serve 
with almost any fruit salad. 

PERFECTION SALAD 

1 envelope gelatine Vz cup sugar 

1/2 cup cold water 1 cup finely chopped cabbage 

V2 cup mild vinegar 2 cups celery cut in small 

1 pt. boiling water pieces ' 

1 teaspoon salt %■ can pimentos, chopped 
Juice of 1 lemon 

Soak gelatine in cold water 5 minutes, add vinegar, lemon 
juice, sugar, salt, boiling water. When beginning to set add 
chopped vegetables. When cold serve on lettuce with mayon- 
naise. 

Use any left over fruit gelatine by cutting into cubes 
and adding to fruit salad. 



FROZEN FRUIT SALAD 

Canned pineapple- Oranges 

Cherries Tangerines 

Marrons Grape fruit 
Bananas 

Cut in very small cubes. Mix with dressing and put in 
mould. Pack in ecpial parts of ice and salt for two hours. 

DRESSING 

M'elt 1 tablespoon butter, add yolks of 2 well beaten eggs. 

3j/2 tablespoons flour Few grains cayenne 

3 tablespoons sugar % cup milk 

V2 teaspoon paprika % cup cider vinegar 

Boil until thick. When ready to mould, add 1 cup whipped 
cream for each Vs cup of dressing and 1 cup fruit. 

(Mrs. R. P. McChesney,; 

POTATO SALAD 

Cut cold boiled potatoes into small pieces. Place in a 

deep dish alternate layer of potato, chopped onion, celery and 

hard boiled eggs. Pour over this the hot dressing and mix 
thoroughly. 

DRESSING 

To l/i cup vinegar, add V2 teaspoon mustard, 2 tablespoons 
flour, a little salt, lump of butter and cup of milk. Boil, stir- 
ring constantly until a thick custard. 

(Mrs. W. C. Anderson) 

SALAD MODERNE 

Peel and cut 4 apples (Julienne) and prepare 2 stalks of 
celery in same manner, % apple to V3 celery; season with 
mixture salt, pepper and paprika; mix thoroughly with two 
spoons light mayonnaise, and serve in a cut-out apple with a 
sprinkle of chopped nuts on top. (Hotel Astor) 

SALAD MIAMI 

Garnish all around a heart of lettuce with slices of grape 
fruit and oranges and small quarters of tomato, cut in fancy 
shapes; in the mi'ddle of a heart put a Julienne of cut celery 
and apples; on top place a small bouquet of watercress; decor- 
ate all around dish on outside and on top with pieces of 
apples cut regularly with fancy vegetable cutter. Serve with 
French dressing separately. (Ritz-Carlton Hotel) 



Use gelatine often, in desserts and salads. Use it 
with scraps of meat and soup stock and make aspic loaf 
for luncheon. 



66 



ASPARAGUS SALAD 

Use a French dressing and sprinkle picklelily over the as- 
paragus. 

KING SALAD 

Arrange slices of tomatoes on a bed of lettuce (shredded). 
On half slices pile chopped celery, on the other half of the 
slices pile finely chopped watercress. Garnish with ribbons 
or green pep])er and serve with French dressing. 

PINEAPPLE AND MARSHMELLOW SALAD 

1 large can pineapple 1 pint whipping cream 

8 large slices Juice 1 lemon 

Vz lb. soft marshmellows 1 level teaspoon salt 

]/> teaspoon paprika 

Cut marshmellows in quarters and the pineapple in same 
size pieces, put in bowl and pour over juice from pineapple. 
Let stand in ice chest two hours. Near serving time — whip 
cream, add salt, paprika and lemon juice, mix well. Put 
lettuce on salad plates, drain pineapple and marshmellows, put 
large spoonful on lettuce, then cover with large spoonful 
whipped cream dressing. This will serve nine persons. 

(Mrs. D. L. Gillespie) 

OYSTER SALAD 

12 large oysters 1 cup celery 

1 cup cold chicken or turkey 

Scald oysters in their liquor. When ruffled, pour into a 
colander to drain. When quite cold, cut them in small pieces 
and mix with the chicken and celery. 

DRESSING 

3 hard boiled eggs 2 tablespoons good vinegar 

2 tablespoons mustard Pepper and salt to taste 

1 tablespoon butter 

Pour over oysters just before using. 

(Mrs. E. R. L., Meadville) 

TOMATO SALAD 

Whole tomatoes Celery 

15oiled chestnuts Olives 

Remove center of tomatoes, fill with chopped chestnuts, 
celery and olives mixed with PVench dressing. Put a bit of 
mayonnaise on top. 



To keep lettuce fresh: Wash without separating 
head, place in tightly covered bowl and put in refriger- 
ator. Early cabbage can be kept the same way — good 
for days. 



67 



SUMMER SALAD 

2 tablespoons granulated gela- 1 ran shredded pineapple 

tine soaked in y^. cup water Juice of 1 lemon 

2 large cucumbers 

Grind cucumbers. Drain juice from cucumbers and pine- 
apple. Heat with lemon juice and pour over gelatine. When 
cold, add cucumter and pineapple pulp. Put in individual 
molds and serve with rnavonnaise. 

(Mrs. C. R. Peddle) 

POTATO SALAD 

Use five medium sized fresh boiled potatoes. Slice them 
and pour over them 

1 tablespoon vinegar 1 teaspoon salt and a dash or 

1 tablespoon olive oil two of pepper 

Add mayonnaise dressing and garnish with large green 
olives. 

APPLE SURPRISE 

Make a hole about IVz inches wide at top of a red apple 
and scoop out apple up to the skin. Fill with a salad made of 
apple, celery, ham and chicken cut up in dice and mixed with 
mayonnaise seasoned with paprika. Put on "cover and serve 
on watercress. (Biltmore Hotel) 

PINEAPPLE SALAD 

1 fresh pineapple Spanish pimentos 
Celery 

Cut top of pineapple, scoop out fruit, leaving shell. To 
two cups of pineapple meat add 1 cup celery and mix with 
cream mayonnaise. Fill shell with fruit salad, lay on its side 
on the platter. Sprinkle over top of the salad finely chopped 
Spanish pimentos. Garnish with small lettuce leaves and 
strawberries, cherries, or fresh currants. Place top of pine- 
apple on one side of platter. Any combination of fruit may 
be used with the pineapple. A wide ribbon tied around pine- 
apple with biOw sticking up as the shell lays on the platter 
adds much to the attractiveness of the dish. 

GINGER ALE AND FRUIT SALAD 

2 tablespoons gelatine 1 apple 

2 tablespoons cold water Shredded pineapple 

Vz cup boiling water Celery 

1 cup ginger ale Preserved ginger 

2 tablespoons sugar 1 lemon 
A little salt 

Make a jelly using the gelatine soaked in the cold water, 
and dissolved in the boiling water; add the ginger ale, sugar, 
salt and juice of one lemon. When jelly begins to set fold 
in apples pared, cored and cut in thin slices; celery and pre- 
served ginger. Cut in small pieces; add the shredded pine- 
apple, turn into small moulds and chill. Serve on lettuce with 
cream mayonnaise. (Mrs. Frederic I. Merrick) 

68 



Accessories for Salads 



CHEESE ROLLS 

3 cakes Philadelphia cream 1 tablespoon Worchestershire 
cheese sauce 

1 cake Snappy cheese Butter size of walnut 

J/2 doz. stuffed olives % teaspoon soda in a table- 
A few chives spoon of water 

A little parsley Paprika 

V2 lb. un salted pecans 

MixL cheese and butter thoroughly, — add chopped olives, 
jiarsley, chives and other ingredients. Roll in chopped nuts. 
Serve with toasted crackers. 

CORNMEAL CRISP (Salad Wafers) 

>^ cup cornmeal 1 tablespoon fat 

y2 cup wheat flour 3 tablespoons milk 

V2 teaspoon salt 

Mix cornmeal, flour and salt, then add fat and milk. Roll 
this and cut into small wafers. Bake in hot oven. 

CHEESE BALLS 

One and one-half cups grated cheese, white of one egg, 
pinch of salt, dash of red pepper. 

Mix well, roll into small balls, ])ut in ice box for one hour 
or more and frv in deep fat. 

(Mrs. William Maclay Mall) 

CORN STICKS 

2 cups cornmeal 2 heaping .teaspoons Royal 
1>4 cups milk • baking powder 

Pinch of salt 

Bake in corn stick irons for 30 minutes. Grease irons well 
uith Crisco. (Mrs. S. R. Gallagher) 

CHEESE WAFERS 

2 oz. grated cheese 1 yolk of egg 

2 oz. flour Little Cayenne pepper and 

2 oz. butter salt. 

Few drops lemon juice 

First, cream cheese, flour and butter; add rest of recipe, 
work and roll out on board in plenty of flour. Cut in shapes. 

(Miss Lillian G. Dermitt) 
71 



Salad Dressings 

RUSSIAN DRESSING 

1 cup mayonnaise Yi doz. olives, chopped fine 

2 tablespoons chili sauce A little onion 

(Mrs. Columbus J. Wilson) 

WESSON OIL MAYONNAISE 

Wesson oil Dash cayenne 

Yolk 1 egg Mustard if desired 

1 teaspoon salt 2 dessertspoons lemon juice 
Paprika 

Mix egg slightly beaten, salt, paprika, mustard and cay- 
enne. Stir unto this mixture with Dover beater the lemon 
juice; add teaspoon at time of the oil, continually beating to the 
right consistency. 

Formula can baiollowcd using any good oil. 

CREAM DRESSING (For Cold Slaw) 

1 cup vinegar 1 tablespoon sugar 

1 teaspoon salt Butter, size of hickory nut 

Let come to boil; pour this mixture over two well beaten 
eggs, stirring all the time. Replace on stove and let come to 
boil; pour dressing over cut-cabbage and set aside to cool. 
Just before serving add- Yz cup cream. 

(Mrs. G. E. House) 

BOILED SALAD DRESSING 

3 yolks of eggs Cayenne 

1 cup milk 1 Vz tablespoon butter or 1 cup 

J/2 cup vinegar oil 

1 teaspoon mustard XYi tablespoon flour 

1 teaspoon salt 1>4 tablespoon sugar 

Mix all dry ingredients; add butter, eggs, then milk, then 
vinegar. (Mrs. H. A. Ross) 

SIMPLE SALAD DRESSING (Without Oil) 

1 teaspoon prepared mustard 2 tablespoons cream (sweet or 
1 teaspoon sugar sour) 

Pinch of salt 

Beat thorcniglily just before using. 

(Mrs. A. M. Imbrie) 



FRENCH DRESSING 

1 tablespoon lemon juice or 1 teaspoon salt 
vinegar 1 teaspoon paprika 

3 tablespoons Wesson oil 

Have oil and lemon cold; beat all together with Dover 
egg-beater. 

FRENCH DRESSING 

To V2 teacu]:) vinegar add: 

1 cup water Pepper 

4 tal)lespoons olive oil 1 teaspoon sugar 

V2 teaspoon salt A bit of onion juice 

Vary dressing by using any left-over pickle vinegar, horse- 
radish, Worcestershire sauce, catsup, etc., omitting the sugar. 

(Mrs. VV. H. R. Hilliard) 

FRENCH DRESSING 

yi cup oil Salt, red pepper 

1/2 teaspoon ice water Catsup 

vinegar Olives 

Beat thoroughly oil and water, add vinegar and salt, pep- 
per, according to taste. The catsup and chopped olives may 
lie omitted. 



When warming anything in the oven, place a pan of 
boiling water on bottom of oven. The steam will pre- 
vent the food from drying. 



74 



Sauces 



Especial attention must be given to seasoning of dishes 
which have as their fovmdation beans, rice, or other foods 
having little flavor of their own. 

Use peppers, onions, garlic, leek, celery, catsup, Worcester- 
shire sauce, etc., for increasing flavor. Bean and nut loaves 
should be served with highly seasoned sauces. 

ITALIAN TOMATO SAUCE 

2 cups cooked tomatoes Yz cup cut green peppers 

V^ cup finely cut onion 4 tablespoons butter substitute 
y2 cup grated or cut carrot or vegetable drippings 

% cup grated or cut turnip 2 tablespoons flour 

2 teaspoons salt 

Cook vegetables (except tomato) in the fat until tender. 
Add tomato and salt, cook 5 minutes. Put through strainer, 
return to fire, add flour mixed w^ith 2 tablespoons cold water, 
boil 5 minutes. 

(U. S. Food Administration) 

PIMENTO SAUCE 

Force canned pimento through a strainer. Add \A cup 
of this puree to 1 cup of white sauce. 

BROWN NUT SAUCE 

2 ~ tablespoons drippings or l^/^ cups meat or vegetable stock 

vegetable oil or milk 

2 tablespoons peanut butter % teaspoon salt 

3^/4 tablespoons flour Few grains pepper 

Brown the fat, add peanut butter and when well mixed 
add flour and continue browning. Pour in the stock gradually, 
stirring constantly. Bring to the boiling point and add salt 
and pepper. (U. S. Food Adnuinistration) 

MOCK HOLLANDAISE SAUCE 

2 tablespoons t)utter ^ teaspoon pepper 
2 tablespoons flour Few grains cayenne pepper 

>4 cup milk 2 eggs, yolks 

Vz teaspoon salt 1 tablespoon lemon juice 

Mix the butter with flour until well blended. Add milk 
and seasonings. Bring to boiling point. Stir in yolks beaten 
add butter, bit by bit, and lemon. 

76 



MUSTARD SAUCE A LA PLAZA HOTEL 

Take Y2 teaspoon mustard, rub into tablespoon butter, and 
stir into hot J^ollandaise sauce, highlj' seasoned. A good 
sauce for fish. 

NUTMEG SAUCE 

Serve with brown pudding. 

3 cups water 1 yrated nutmeg, sweeten to 

1 tablespoon butter taste 

Thicken with the cornstarch dissolved in water. Cook 
until it thickens. 

CORNSTARCH SAUCE 

One tablespoon cornstarch and add boiling water until 
thick. Sweeten with maple sugar, a little butter, nutmeg and 
brandy, and boil a few minutes. 

HARD SAUCE 

1 cup powdered sugar 1 egg well beaten 

Yj, cup butter 

Cream butter and sugar. Add egg and vanilla and before 
serving, grate a little orange peel over the top. 

(Mrs. Claude F. Pugh) 

COTTAGE PUDDING SAUCE 

Yi cup sugar 1 nutmeg and a small handful 

White of 2 eggs beaten of flour, stir like starch and 

Vz cup butter boil in double boiler 

1 pint of water 

(Mrs. Mortimer C. Miller) 

GOLDEN SAUCE 

Two tablespoons butter beaten to a cream, to which add 
% cup powdered sugar. Add the unbeaten yolks of 2 eggs 
and 2 tablespoons sherry wine. Have the whites of eggs beaten 
stiff and stir into mixture. Set bowl in a pan of boiling water 
and stir for 5 minutes. Serve at once 

(Miss Emma B. Suydam) 

VANILLA SAUCE 

Whites of 2 eggs Volk of 1 egg 

Y2 cup pulverized sugar 2 tablespoons milk 

Vanilla to taste 1 tablespoon cream 

Beat whites of eggs very stiff. Add pulverized sugar, beat 
well, then add yolk of egg, milk and cream. Serve immedi- 
ately. 



MARYLAND SAUCE (See Rice Puffs) 

V2 cup fruit juice 2 tablespoons butter or substi- 

4 tablespoons l)ro\vn sugar stute 

Yolks of 2 eggs 

Cream butter and sugar togetber. add well beaten yolks, 
add the fruit juice. Cook in double boiler until desired con- 
sistency. 

CREAM SAUCE WITH CHEESE 

Make a white sauce and when cooked, stir in grated cheese. 
Excellent for rice croquettes. 

SAUCE FOR BEETS 

1 tablespoon butter 1 tablespoon vinegar 

1 tablespoon sugar 1 cup water 

1 tablespoon flour 

Boil beets cut in dice, then boil in sauce for 15 luinutes. 

(Mrs. H. A. Ross) 

WHITE SAUCE 

2 tablespoons butter or substi- 1 cup scalded milk or cream 
stute 3^4 teaspoon salt 

Ij/S tablespoons flour Few grains pepper 

Put butter in sauce pan, stir until melted and bubbling. 
Add flour mixed with seasonings, and stir, until thoroughly 
blended. Pour on gradually the milk, adding about % at a 
time, stirring until well mixed, then beating until smooth and 
glossy. 



78 



Sandwiches 



UNEEDA BISCUIT CLUB SANDWICH 

Butter Uneeda Biscuit, put in a slice of fried bacon, 
a slice of onion and a very thin slice of tomato, also a little 
prepared mustard if desired. Very tasty. 



TOASTED GRAHAM SANDWICHES 

Mix Philadelphia cream cheese, with ground nuts, spread 
between buttered graham bread, toast quickly in hot oven. 

(Lillian G. Dermitt.) 



NORWEGIAN SANDWICHES 

% cup mayonnaise 2 teaspoons of anchovy paste 

3 hard boiled eggs Rye bread 

Chopped line 

Rose sandwiches served with Ginger Punch (see beve- 
rages). The bread is spread lightly with ])utter, then with 
cream cheese, and crushed raspberries. 



DELICIOUS SANDWICHES 

Have round slices cut from graham bread and in top 
slice of each sandwich have a hole the size of a quarter into 
which lay half an English walnut. 

billing — ^Mix a little olive oil with white cream cheese 
and then add some chopped stufifed olives and walnuts. 

(Mrs. T. D. Chantler.) 



CELERY SANDWICHES. 

1 cup finely shredded celery J4' cup chopped olives 
Yj^ cup finely chopped nuts 

Mix together, moisten with mayonnaise and spread be- 
tween thin slices of brown bread. 



CINNAMON TOAST 

Toast bread, s])read thickly with butter; add sugar and 
ground cinnamon mixed together and put in hot oven until 
sugar melts. 

80 



DATE SANDWICHES 

For filling: 
1 11). dates, cut smnll Vz cup water 

Vz cup suRar 

Boil to paste and cool 

y2 cup brown sugar 2 cui)s rolled oats or Hour to 
V2 cup butter make stiff douRh 

V2 cup lard or Crisco 2 teaspoons baking powder 
Yz cup milk ¥2 teaspoon salt 

Roll the dough out thin; spread half of it with filling mix- 
ture; place another layer of dough on top; cut in strips about 
1 1/2 by 4 inches and bake. 

(Miss Anna Dake McCague) 

SANDWICHES 

Any sandwiches that are dry except those made with 
fresh lettuce or tomatoes, are delicious if toasted and served 

hot. 

PEPPER HASH SANDWICHES (refer to pickles) 

Drain vinegar from pickles. Spread between thin slices 
of buttered bread. 

BEAN SANDWICHES 

Baked beans mashed to a paste, add mustard, a few drops 
of vinegar and finely chojjped celery leaves. Excellent served 
between slices of brown or white bread. 

Beans may be mixed with mayonnaise. 

CHEESE DREAMS 

Work together 1 cup grated yellow cheese and Vs cup 
Philadelphia cream cheese — with paprika to taste — to a smooth 
paste. Put between slices of bread cut in rounds or any- 
fancy shape and sautes in butter or butter substitute. Serve 
immediately with salad. Are very good toasted. 

(Mrs. S. B. McCormick) 

NUT AND CHEESE LOAF. 

2 large squares of Philaclel]jhia cream cheese — chop con- 
served fruits and nuts, mix all together, mould in loaf, roll 
in ground nuts. Cut in slices and serve with salad. 



Save all good wrapping paper, twine, paper boxes and 
paper bags. Keep them for use in a convenient place. 



SANDWICH FILLINGS 

1 cup cold roast chicken 1 tablespoon of capers 

6 olives 1 pickle 

Mince very fine and mix with mayonnaise. 
Cold roast chicken and finely shaved celery mixed with 
mayonnaise. 

Caviare mixed with lemon juice, grated onion and pap- 
rika. Use rye bread. 

Cucumber, grated onion and mayonnaise. 

Dutch cheese and finely chopped water cress. 

Dates chopped very fine, with one half the quantity of 
English walnuts, or pecans. 

Cream cheese and Bar Le Due mixed to a paste. 

Orange marmalade and English walnut meats chopped. 

Raisins chopped fine and worked to paste with sherry. 

Sardines made to a paste with lemon juice. 

Grind green and red peppers and hard boiled eggs, mince 
with mayonnaise. 

TUNA FISH 

Take canned tuna fish, add capers or chopped pickle, mix 
with mayonnaise and use as filling for sandwiches. 

(Miss Addah Gerdes.) 



82 



Cakes 



FRENCH ARMY CAKES 
as made in France 

Boil 5 minutes the following: 
2 cups brown sugar 1 teaspoon salt 

2 cups hot water 1 box raisins 

2 tablespoons shortening 

Cool, and add the following: 
1 teaspoon cloves 3 cups flour (or 2 cups wheat 

1 teaspoon cinnamon flour and 1 cup graham flour) 

Grated nutmeg 1 teaspoon soda in a teaspoon 

hot water 

Bake in slow oven for about 1 hour. Use a pan with 
center spout. This cake is better if not cut when fresh. 

(Mrs. A. W. McEldowney.) 

TEA CAKE 

1 large tablespoon butter or y2 cup sugar 
Crisco Vi cup milk 

2 eggs 1% teaspoons Royal baking pow- 
2 cups flour der 

Mix in the order given. Beat whites of eggs separately 
and put in last of all. Measure the flour after sifting and use 
just two even cups. Put in two cake pans and put sinall 
pieces of butter on top and sprinkle sugar and cinnamon 
over all. Bake in fairly hot oven. 

(Mrs. H. A. Ross.) 

ROSS LUNCH CAKE— WAR CAKE 

Boil together for about 4 or 5 minutes: 
1 cup raisins Yi cup lard 

1 cup currants 1 teaspoon cinnamon 

1 cup water 1 teaspoon cloves 

1 cup sugar 1 teaspoon nutmeg 

Let this cool. 

Mix — 1 cup chopped English walnut meats into 2 cups 
flour; 2 teaspoons baking powder and 1 level teaspoon bak- 
ing soda. Mix all together and bake in a moderate oven. 

(Mrs. H. A. Ross.) 



"USE OTHER FATS IN PLACE OF BUTTER 
AND LARD." 

Chicken fat makes good pastry. Solidified vegetable 
oils are valuable. Oleomargarine may often be used. 
Drippings and bacon fat are worth their weight in gold. 
Use these and any other substitutes. 

84 



"PRINCE OF WALES CAKE" 

V2 cup butter 1 teaspoon ground clover 

cup brown sugar V2 teaspoon alspice 

cup sour milk 2 tal)lespoons X. O. molasses 

eggs 2 cups flour 

.teaspoon soda 1 cup chopped raisins added 

teaspoon vanilla last 
teaspoon cinnamon 

(All measurements level) 

(Mrs. T. D. Chantler) 

WAR CHOCOLATE LAYER CAKE 

Cake 

1% cups of the clear white 3 cups of white or mixed flour 

Karo syrup 3 even teaspoons of baking 

V2 cup of Crisco powder 

3 eggs ^ cup of cocoa to the batter 

1 cup of milk may be added 

The flour used can be part white flour, with whole wheat, 
rye, or rice flour added in equal portions. One egg white 
can be retained for icing if desired. 

Chocolate Between Layers 

•}4 cup of Baker's cocoa Small piece of butter or 

1 cup of white Karo syrup Crisco 

Vz cup sugar Vanilla to flavor or not, as 

desired 
Small piece of butter or Crisco Vanilla to flavor or not, 
as desired. 

(Mrs. Albert Kingsbury.) 

DATE TEA CAKE 

1 lb. chopped dates 1 cup rice flour 

1 lb. English walnuts 2 teaspoons baking powder 

1 cup sugar (brown or maple) \^ teaspoon salt 

Yolks and \yhites of 4 eggs beaten separately, then to- 
gether, mix all together. Bake in small bread pan, in mod- 
erate oven. 

(Mrs. William Thaw, Jr.) 

NUT CAKE 

Vi lb. almonds 1 teaspoon vanilla 

'/4 lb. English walnuts 9 or 10 eggs 

V2 lb. granulated sugar 

Beat the sugar and egg yolks together for ^ hour (this 
is the most important part of the cake). Add the nuts rolled 
very fine; then the whites of eggs beaten stiff. Pour into but- 
tered cake tins and bake ^4 hour. 

(Mrs. C. A. Rook) 
85 



CHOCOLATE MOLASSES CAKE 

Va cup molasses Vs teaspoon soda 

% cup boiling water % teaspoon cinnamon 

1 tablespoon shortening % teaspoon salt 

5^ cup flour 1% squares melted chocolate 

J4 cup cornflour Vz teaspoon vanilla 

Mix molasses, water and shortening. Mix and sift flour, 

corn flour, soda, cinnamon and salt; add to first mixture with 

chocolate and vanilla. Beat thoroughly, and bake in small 

greased muffin pans. 

INEXPENSIVE CHOCOLATE CAKE 

1 egg yolk 1 cup sweet milk 

1 cup sugar 1 tablespoon butter 

lyi cups flour 4 small or 2 large squares un- 

1 teaspoon soda sweetened chocolate 

Cream egg and sugar; add milk with soda dissolved in it, 
then flour, and lastly, the chocolate and butter melted togetlier. 
Easily made. 

(Mrs. D. M. Buck) 

WHITE LOAF CAKE— Bake in Tube Pan 

1% cups sugar -}4 cup milk 

% cup butter cream together 3 cups sifted flour 

2 teaspoons Royal baking 
Pinch salt powder 

3 well beaten eggs lJ/2 teaspoon vanilla 

Makes a big loaf. 

WHITE LAYER CAKE— Two Thick Layers 

1^ cups sugar 2 teaspoons Royal 'baking 

V2 cup butter powder 

1 cup milk 1 teaspoon vanilla 

Cream together 

Put in last 3 beaten v^'hites of eggs with pinch of salt. 

POTATO CARAMEL CAKE 

1 cup sugar 1 teaspoon cinnamon 

Vs cup butter 1 teaspoon nutmeg 

1 cup hot mashed potatoes 1 cup flour 

1 cup grated chocolate 1 teaspoon Royal baking pow- 

V2 teaspoon cloves der 

1 cup chopped nuts 1 teaspoon vanilla 

Cream butter and sugar yolks of eggs. Then potatoes, 

spices and chocolate. Sift Royal baking powder in flour. Beat 

batter, add well beaten whites of eggs and nuts last. Bake one 

hour. Makes a large loaf. (Mrs. H. A. Ross) 

86 



ANGEL FOOD 

. Whites of 11 eggs Vz teaspoon cream of tartar 

1 V2 cups granulated sugar 1 teaspoon of vanilla 

1 cup bread flour 

•Do not heat hard, stir rather. 

(Mrs. Louise M. Packard) 

ANGEL CAKE 

Whites of 10 eggs, cold and well whipped. Put a good 
pinch of salt in eggs and when partly beaten add Vz teaspoon 
cream tartar and beat well; 1 teaspoon vanilla, gradually add 
1 cup granulated sugar that has been sifted five times, beat 
well; then carefully fold 1 cup flour sifted five times before 
measuring, and do not beat the batter after the flour is in. 

Bake in a tube loaf in moderate oven 40 or 45 minutes, 
liaking too long makes it dry. It must rise above the pan be- 
fore it begins to brown; if the oven is too hot, cool it by open- 
ing the door, it will not hurt the cake. 

GOLD CAKE, To Use 8 Yolks Left Over from Angel Cake 

8 yolks well beaten, add 2 teaspoons Royal baking 

1 cup sugar and powder 

Yi, cup butter creamed together 1 teaspoon vanilla 
% cup milk Pinch salt 

1 '/j full cups flour sifted 5 times 
before measuring 

Bake in moderate oven 40 or 45 minutes. Make 2 layers, 
or loaf. 

(Mrs. F. M. Fuller) 

LILLY CAKE 

Vz cup nut margarine 2% teaspoons baking powder 

1 cup sugar % teaspoon lemon extract 

V^ cup milk % teaspoon vanilla extract 

\V^, cups flour Whites of 3 eggs 

Use with maple icing. See icings. 

(Mrs. Walter C. Carroll) 

MT. HICKORY ONE-EGG CAKE 

1 egg 2 teaspoons baking powder 

1 tablespoon butter ^2 cup sugar 

Vx CUD milk Vanilla 

1 V/i, cup flour 

Cream, butter and sugar, add beaten egg. Mix baking pow- 
der in flour. Add milk and flour alternately. Add vanilla last. 

(Mrs. Frank Pierce) 
87 



MOTHER'S BLACK FRUIT CAKE 

1 cup molasses 4 tablespoons cloves 

1 lb. sugar 2 nutmegs 

1 lb. butter 9 teaspoons cinnamon 

1 lb. flour 2 lemons 

1 lb. citron 1 tumbler brandy 

3 lbs. currants 1 teaspoon soda 

4 lbs. raisins 1 doz. eggs 

Make in small cakes for mailing to soldiers. 
Bake 2 to 3 hours or until splint comes out perfectly dry. 

(Miss Helen Barclay) 

SWEDISH SPONGE CAKE 

4 eggs V2 cup Swedish potato flotir 
1 cup sugar pinch soda and 

1 teaspoon lemon juice Cream of tartar 

Beat the yolks very stiff and add the sugar gradually; 
then other ingredients. Fold in stiffly beaten whites last. Bake 
40 minutes in a slow oven. 

(Mrs. Wesley G. Carr) 

SPONGE CAKE 

5 large or 6 small eggs Juice of V2 and rind of whole 
1 cup sugar lemon ' 

1 cup sifted flour 

Beat eggs (without separating) and sugar together for 30 
minutes. Carefully fold in flour and bake 1 hour. 

Sponge cake should be served while fresh and broken 
apart rather than cut. 

(Mrs. Joseph H. Moore) 

TO MAKE SPONGE CAKE MORE DELICIOUS 

After scrubbing an orange grate the rind into the batter. 
Add also 2 tablespoons of the juice. 

(Mrs. T. D. Chantler) 

BARLEY SPONGE CAKE 

4 eggs V2 cup wheat flour 

1 cup sugar lj4 teaspoons baking powder 
1 tablespoon hot water ^4 teaspoon salt 

V2 cup barley flour 1 teaspoon lemon juice 

Beat yolks of eggs until stiff", add sugar very gradual!}'. 
Add the water and the flour, mixed and sifted with the baking 
powder and salt. Fold in the whites of the eggs beaten with 
lemon juice until stiff. Bake in a quick oven. 



Suet it the best fat for greasing cake pans. Cut a bit 
from each steak you buy, and keep in a cold place. 



• PIN WHEELS 

1 qt. flour 2 teaspoons butter 
'A teaspoon salt 1 cup milk 

2 teaspoons l)akin.L,' [)o\vdcr 2 eggs 
Sift 4 times 

Mix milk and eggs, then add to other ingredients, mix 
well, roll out ^/^ inch thick, sprinkle with currants, sugar, cin- 
namon. Roll like jelly cake and cut into slices. 

(Mrs. E. H. Dermitt.) 

SOUR CREAM GINGERBREAD 

I cup sugar I tablespoon each ginger, all- 

/2 cup butter spice, and cinnamon 

cup sour cream 2 teaspoons baking soda dis- 

1 cup molasses solved in V2 cup of boiiinu 

^ eggs water 

3H cups of sifted flour 

Mix all at once. The addition of thin strips of oran<'e 
peel imparts a delicious flavor. '^ 

(Mrs. Claude F. Pugh) 

SOFT GINGER BREAD 

1 cup butter and lard mixed 2 tablespoons cinnamon 

/2 cup brown sugar 1 teaspoon cloves 

1 I "/ ^ ^^^^ ^^^2 teaspoon allspice 

1 cup N O molasses 1 ' cup cold water 

2 teaspoons soda, dissolved in2V^ cups sifted flour 

2 tablespoon boiling water Whites of e^gs beaten stiff 

1/2 teaspoon salt 

(Mrs. Silas Benham) 

NO EGG MOLASSES GINGER BREAD 

1 cup molasses 1 teaspoon ginger 

1 teaspoon soda 1 pinch salt 

2 tablespoons .shortening 1 pint flour (no more) 
'A cup boiling water 

Add boiling water last. Dissolve soda in water and sea- 
son with ginger and cloves. This will spread stifif in the pan 
but is crisp and good. 

NEW ENGLAND COOKIES 

3 cups brown sugar Flour enough to mix 
1 cup lard 1 teaspoon cinnamon 

1 teaspoon soda dissolved in 1 1 teaspoo:i salt 
cup hot water 

Roll very thin and sprinkle with granulated sugar. 

(Mrs. E. F. Gerber) 



Y4 cup granulated sugar 1 

1 cup brown sugar 2 

1 cup butter 

V2 cup sweet milk 1 

1 level teaspoon soda 
Makes four dozen. 



SUGAR COOKIES 

teaspoon cream tartar 



Flour to stiffen and roll out 
teaspoon vanilla 
Pinch salt 



INEX'PENSIVE COOKIES 



2 cups flour 
% cup butter 



cup brown sugar 
egg 



Work sugar, butter and flour vv-ell together, then add egg 
These are better if let stand an hour before rolling out. -After 
cutting, place a half almond in the center of each cookie. 
Bake a delicate brown in oven. 

(Mrs. S. F. Read) 



GPONGE WAFERS 



5 eggs 

1 cup sugar 



cm rice flour 
Lc;;.on or vanilla 



Beat yolks of eggs and sugar together for half hour, add 
flavoring. Beat the whites and put on top of mixture, the;i 
the sifted flour folding all together lightly. 

Drop one teaspoon of mixture on baking pan, that has 
been greased and rubbed with flour. Place half blanched 
almond on each. Bake in slow oven 12 or 15 minutes. 

This will make. 4 or 5 dozen. 

(Mrs. S. A. Pickering) 



CHOCOLATE FRUIT COOKIES 

^4 cup fat sugar and 1 talilespoon hot 

V2 cup sugar water 

J/2 cup nuts V2. cup chopped rnisins 

1 teaspoon baking powder 1 cup rye flour 

2 tablespoons grated chocolate 1 egg 
mixed with 1 tablespoon 

Cream fat, add sugar slowly. Beat egg and combine mix- 
ture; add chocolate melted in hot v/ater with sugar. Add 
other ingredients and chill. Roll on board and cut out. Bake 
in moderate oven. Make 24 small cookies at cost of Ic each. 

(Miss Pope) 



Add one-half teaspoon ground ginger to all doughnut 
or cruller recipes. It will prevent the absorption of 
fats. 



heaping 
cornmeal 
heaping 
flour 



JOLLY BOYS 

tablespoons yellow 



1 



A little salt 
- teaspoon baking powder 
tablespoons whitel egg 

'/s teaspoon melted butter 



1 tablespoon sugar 

Sift thoroughly cornmeal, Hour, sugar, salt and baking 
powder: add to the dry mixture 1 egg with enough milk to 
make a drop batter; stir in quickly half teaspoon melted but- 
ter; beat well and drop by teaspoon in hot fat. 



CREAM SCONES 



4 tablespoons butter 
2 eggs 
% cup cream or mill 



2 cups flour 

4 teaspoons baking powder 
2 teaspoons sugar 
V2 teaspoon salt 

Mix and sift together flour, baking powder, salt and 
Rub in butter with tips of fingers and add eggs well 
then cream. Toss on floured board, "pat to M inch thi 
Cut and brush with white of eggs, sprinkle with sugar, 
in hot oven 15 minutes. 



sugar. 

beaten, 

ckuess. 

Bake 



DROP SPONGES 



li cup pulverized sugar 
/4 CUD flour 



Volks of 2 eggs 
Whites of 3 eggs 



Beat Vvhites of eggs stiff, add sugar; beat yolks very light. 
F'old in flour last. Drop on paper, not buttered, and bake 8 
minutes. 



FRUIT CAKE 



4-4 lb. brown sugar 
H Ih- "lit margarine 
4 eggs separately 
1 pint milk 
1 lb. flour 
M lb. cornmeal (thoroughly 
scalded with hot water 
about 2 cups) 



'/j lb. citron, cut fine 
2 lbs. small raisins 
2 lbs. large raisins 
^^ lb. English walnuts 

Sliced pineapple and mara 
schino cherries to taste 
2 teaspoops baking powder 



Mavor with mace and cinnamon; dredge fruit witli a small 
portion of the flour; line pan with dressed brown paper and 
decorate top with nuts and cherries. Bake very slowly. 

(Mrs. W.' M. Hall) 



Try putting a fev/ whole cloves in the fat when frying 
doujjhnuts. 



LAYER CAKE To Fill With Whipped Cream or a Custard 
Filling or Jelly 

1 cup sugar 2 cups sifted flour 

V2 cup butter scant 2 teaspoons Royal baking 
1/2 cup milk powder 

Cream together 1 teaspoon vanilla 

3 eggs well bcuten Pinch salt 

NOVELTY CAKE 

V2 cup butter creamed 28 graham crackers rolled to a 

1 cup sugar creamed dust 

3 eggs, whites and yolks beat-1 teaspoon baking powder 
en separately J/2 teaspoon vanilla 

^ cup sweet milk 

Mix like any other cake. Bake in layers or loaf. Ice with 
any kind of icing. Half cup walnut meats may be added if 
desired. 

CHOCOLATE CAKE 

6 eggs 2 tablespoons dri e d bread 

1 tablespoon powdered sugar crumbs rolled fine 

V2 lb. Maillard's single vanilla 

chocolate grated (no other 

will do) 

Beat egg yolks with sugar; add chocolate and bread 
crumbs and mix well. Fold in egg whites beaten stiff and 
bake in layers. 

Put chocolate icing on each layer and after it has set, p ut 
whipped cream on each layer and on top. This makes a rich 
dessert. 

(Mrs. C. .'\. Rook) 

HONEY PLUM CAKE 

V2 CTip shortening V2 teaspoon salt 

y2 cup brown sugar ]/> teaspoon ginger 

V2 cup honey V2 teaspoon, nutmeg 

1 egg V2 teaspoon cloves 

•)4 cup milk 1 teaspoon cinnamon 

2 cups pastry flour 1 cup raisins or mixed fruit 
1 teaspoon soda 

Cream the shortening and brown sugar together, add honey 
and egg well beaten. Mix and sift together all the dry in- 
gredients reserving a little of the flour to dust over the rais- 
ins. Add dry ingredients alternately with the milk to the 
first mixture. Beat well, add raisins, and bake in a well 
greased and floured loaf pan, in a moderate oven. Honey is 
unequaled for making small cakes for afternoon teas. Will 
keep indefinitely. 

92 



MARGUERITES 

V2 lb. dates measured after 1 teaspoon baking jjowdcr 

stoning. J/^ cup flour 
^/4 lb. nut meats chopped Salt 

Vz cup sugar X'anilla 

2 eggs 

Chop nuts and dates together; add sugar and stir well. 
Sift flour and baking powder together and add yolks of eggs. 
Cut in whites and add flavoring last. 

Bake in a loaf or muffin tins in moderate oven, about 45 
minutes or 1 hour. 



BROWNIES 



2 s(|uares chocolate, melted 
1 teaspoon vanilla 
1 cup broken walnuts 



2 eggs 

1 cup sugar 

V2 cup flour 

yi cup butter or substitute 

Beat eggs and sugar together; add melted butter, chocolate, 
vanilla, flour, and last of all the broken nuts rolled in a little 
flour. 

Bake in moderate oven 20 minutes in a long pan and cut 
into squares while hot. 

(Mrs. Albert Schultz) 



SPICE DROP CAKES— Baked in Gem Pans 



1 cup sugar 2 

y2 cup butter or substitute 
cream together 
Pinch of salt 

1 cup sour or buttermilk with 1 
1 level teaspoon soda beaten 
in milk 

Makes 15 to 18. 



cups .sifted flour with ^^^ tea- 

sixjon baking powder in 

flour 

Add a little grated nutmeg 

teaspoon cinnamon 

teaspoon vanilla 



(Mrs. F. M. Fuller) 



HONEY HERMITS 



I/4 cup sliorlening 

^ cup honey 

V2 teaspoon mixed spices 

14 teaspoon salt 



1 egg 

1 cup chopped raisins 

1 teaspoon soda 

3 cups pastry flour 



Heat the shortening and honey together until the. short- 
ening is melted, add the mixed spices using the cinnamon, 
cloves and nutmeg. Allow it to cool and then add the egg 
well beaten, raisins and 2 cupsful of flour in which the soda and 
salt have been sifted. Add more flour if need to make a dough 
stifle enough to roll out. Roll, cut in scjuarcs, and liake in a 
moderate oven. 

(Mrs. -A. C. Bane) 
93 



HERMITS 



2 cups brown sugar 

1 cup butter and drippings 
mixed 1 

3 eggs 2 
1 level teaspoon soda in a little 1 

boiling water 1 

V2 teaspoon ciniian.on 



A little grated ni^tmcg 
Pinch salt 
teaspoon vanilla 
cups flour 
cup chopped raisins 
cup chopped nuts 



Cream butter and suear together, add other ingredients, 
drop from a spoon on greased pans and bake in a moderate 
oven. 



DROP CAKES— Baked in Gem Pans 

I cup sugar Pinch salt 

Large tablespoon butter cream 2 cups sifted flour 

together 2 teaspoons baking powder 

1 egg 1 teaspoon vanilla 

1 cup milk 



Put in quick oven and bake 25 minutes. 



PEANUT COOKIES 



V2 cake chocolate 

V2 cup Crisco (or Irutter) 
1 cup brown sugar 
1 cup chopped peanuts 



2 eggs 

2 level teaspoons 

powder 
1 cup graham flour 



bakinc 



Melt the chocolate in half cup water. Beat sugar and 
crisco together, add to chocolate; then add the chopped nuts 
and last the beaten eggs. Mix baking powder in 1 cup of 
graham flour, or as much flour as will make a batter that will 
drop easily from a spoon. Drop one teaspoonful at a time on 
buttered pan and bake. 

(Mrs. S. B. Ely) 



GINGER SNAPS 



2 cups sugar 
2 cups molasses 

2 cups lard or butter 

3 eggs 

1 tablespoon soda dissolved 

hot water 
1 tablespoon cinnamon 



1 tablespoon cloves 
1 tablespoon ginger 
1 tablespoon salt 
1 tablespoon nutmeg 
inl tablespoon vanilla 
Flour enough to roll 



It is well to mix the night before. Set away in a cool 
place and roll out the next morning. 

(Mrs. E. M. Herr) 
94 



DROP GRAHAM CAKES 

cup sour cream 2]/^ cups graham Hour 
teaspoon soda Nutmeg 

cup sugar Pinch of salt 

tablespoons molasses 

Drop from spoon on buttered jjan and bake slowly. 

(Mrs. I'aul Sturtevant) 



TAYLOR CAKES 



1 pint milk 2 eggs 

1 cup shortening 1 tablespoon each ground cinna- 

1 cup cold water mon, cloves, ginger 

1 teaspoon salt 1 teaspoon baking powder 

1 teaspoon soda Hour for soft hatter 

1 cup brown sugar 

Mix as for gingerbread and drop on buttered pan. 

Note — Can leave out baking powder and use 1 teaspoon 
soda. 



POTATO CORNMEAL CAKES 



teaspoon cuinamon 

teaspoon nutmeg 

cup flour 

teaspoon leaking powder 

teaspoon \anilla 



1 cup sugar 

% cup butter 

1 cup hot mashed potatoes 

1 cup grated chocolate 

1 cup chopped nuts 

V2 teaspoon cloves 

Cream butt.er, sugar, yolks of eggs, potatoes, spices and 
chocolate Sift baking powder in flour, add butter, and well 
beaten whites of eggs and nuts last. 

Bake one hour. Makes a large loaf. 



OATMEAL COOKIES WITH GRAHAM FLOUR 



2 cups Mothers Oats 1 

1 cup sugar (white or brown) 
y^ to 1 cup Wesson Oil (ac- 1 
cording to desired richness) 1 
1^ cups (jraham Flour (or 
less) 

Drop small tablespoon of mixture on flat pans 



cup chopped raisins (or half 
raisins and half nuts) 
teaspoon cinnamon 
teaspoon soda dissolved in 
5 teaspoons hot water 



OAT MEAL COOKIES WITH SOUR MILK 



2 cups flour 1 

ZVi cups Rolled Oats 3 

1 cup sugar 2 

2 eggs 

Dro]) from s])()oii on buttered tins. Bake al)()ut 13 minutes. 

93 



cup shortening 
tal)!espoons som- milk 
teaspoons vanilla 
Raisins and nuts to taste 



LACE CAKE 

1 tablespoon butter 2 cups Rolled Oats 

2 eggs 1 teaspoonful baking powder 
1 cup sugar 

Beat the yolks ver}- light; add sugar and melted buttci, 
beat again, then stir in the well beaten whites. Add the rolled 
oats in which the baking powder has been well mixed. Let 
mixture stand a few minutes to have the butter mix well with 
other ingredients. Drop half a teaspoon about three inches 
apart on buttered tins. Bake slowly. 

Maple sugar can be substituted for cane sugar. 

(Mrs. H. A. Ross) 

WAR TIME MACAROONS WITH COCOANUT 

1 V2 cvips Mothers Oats 1 scant teaspoon baking pow- 

1/2 teaspoon salt der 

V2 cup sugar 1 egg well beaten 

1 cup cocoanut 1 teaspoon Almond Extract 

Mix in the order given and when well blended drop miK- 
ture from tip of spoon on pan lined with buttered wax paper, 
one-half inch apart. Bake 4 to 10 minutes according to thick- 
ness of cakes. Watch carefully to avoid burning. Makes 
about 18 macaroons. (Miss Cora Shallenberger) 



OATMEAL MACAROONS WITH CORN SYRUP 

1 tablespoon fat 2 teaspoons Almond Extract 
j/R cup corn syrup if desired 

2 tablespoons sugar % teaspoon salt 

1 egg 1/2 teaspoon baking powder 

\V2 cups oatmeal 1% tablespoons flour 

Combine the melted fat and the sugar and syrup, add the 
beaten eggs and stir in the other ingredients. Drop from a 
teaspoon on greased sheets or pans and bake in a moderate 
oven for 15 minutes. This makes 25 to 28 cookies about 2 
inches in diameter. (Y. VV. C. A.) 



NUTLETS 

1 cup shortening 2 scant teaspoons soda 

1 cup honey 1 teaspoon salt 

1 cup brown sugar 1 teaspoon cinnamon 

1 cup chopped mit meats 4 cups pastry flour 
1 egg 

Sift the dry ingredients together, beat egg well, and mix 
in order given. This will make a stiff batter; drop bv tea- 
spoon on a greased pan and bake in a moderate oven, as 
cakes made with honey burn easily. This recipe makes about 
8 dozen small cakes. 



NUT CAKES (Thin) 

1 egg, unbeaten 3 tablespoons flour 

1 cup maple syrup or brown 1 cup chopped nuts, preferably 
sugar pecans 

2 tablespoons butter or substi- ' \'anilla 
tute Salt 

Drop bj' half teaspoons on greased tins. If brown sugar 
is used, flavor with vanilla. 

(Mrs. Chester B. Albree) 

MAPLE JUMBLES 

1 cup Maple Syrup iVz cups flour 

1 egg 1 level teaspoon soda 

J/2 cup butter 

Beat eggs and butter together and add syrup, put so'la 
in flour and add last. Drop froni a spoon on well greased pan 
and bake about 20 minutes. 

(Mrs. Paul Sturtevant) 

DOUGHNUTS 

1 cup mashed potatoes 1 egg 

1 cup sour milk 1 teaspoon baking powder 

1 teaspoon soda nutmeg 

1 cup sugar Flour enough to make a soft 

dough 

Break egg in bowl, add sugar and beat well. Add some 
milk and soda, the mashed potato, nutmeg and flour. 



97 



Cake Icing 

CARAMEL ICING 

1% cups brown sugar % cup boiling water 

^ cup granulated sugar 2 eggs, whites 

Vanilla 

Boil sugar and water until it spins a thread. Pour syrup 
gradually on the beaten eggs and continue beating until mix- 
ture is nearly cool. Set mixture in boiling water and cook 
until it becomes granular around the edge of pan. Remove 
from pan of water and beat until mixture will hold its shape. 
Add vanilla and walnut meats. (Never fails) 

(Mrs. D. M. Buck) 



HONEY ICING 

y2 cup honey A few drops of lemon ex- 

2 eggs, whites tract 

Boil honey until it forms a firm ball when tried in cold 
water. Pour slowly over the beaten whites of eggs and beat 
until cold. Flavor with lemon extract. Set over hot water 
and fold over and over gently for 2 minutes. Spread V2 of 
this on the cake. Make a small funnel with a small piece of 
thin, tough writing paper, clip the point and use to decorate 
the cake with remaining icing. Flowers may be used in the 
center if desired. 

Honey or corn syrup may be substituted for syrup in the 
boiled frosting. Jloney needs a longer cooking than sugar. 
But the icing holds its shape and remains soft a long time. 



WHITE ICING 

1 cup sugar 4 teaspoon vinegar 

Vs cup boiling water ^ 

Cook until it spins a thread, pour slowly over beaten whites 
of 2 eggs, then beat until stiff, adding a little vanilla. 



NUT CARAMEL ICING 

154 cups brown sugar 34 cup white sugar 

V& cup water Whites of 2 eggs 

1 teaspoon vanilla '4 cup broken walnut meat 

Boil sugar and water without stirring, until it threads. 
Pour gradually while beating constantly, on beaten whites of 
eggs, and continue beating until thick. Set pan over hot water 
and cook until mixture becomes granidar on edge of pan. 
Remove from fire and beat in chopped nuts. Spread on layers 
and top of cake. (Mrs. Frederic I. Merrick) 

100 



MAPLE ICING 

\\ Iiites of 2 eggs beaten stiff 2 cups Maple Syrup 

I'oil syrup until it will roll into a ball after being dropped 
in cold water., Slowly stir syrup into the whites of the eggs 
beating all the time. Beat until thick enough to spread. This 
makes enough for a laver cake. 

(Mrs. Walter C. Carroll) 



Desserts 

DATE PUDDING 

1 cup chopped walnuts 4 tablespoons cracker crumbs 

1 cup chopped dates mixed with 1 tablespoon 

Baking Powder, yolks of 3 
eggs beaten with .)4 cup 
sugar 

To the eggs and sugar add the cracker crumbs and baking- 
powder, then the nuts and dates. Fold in tlie whites of eggs 
beaten stiff. 

Bake in a moderate oven about 35 minutes. Serve cold 
with whipped cream. 

GINGER BREAD WITH APPLES 

GINGER BREAD 

1 cup fat 2 teaspoons soda 

1 cup brown sugar (or Karo) 2 teaspoons cinnamon 

1 cup molasses 1 teaspoon cloves 

1 scant cup cold water, if ^ teaspoon allspice 
using Karo, -34 cup water 1 teaspoon ginger 

2 eggs 

2% cups flour and Yz cup r3'e 
or (li/4 cups barley and 
1 % cups flour) 

5 apples Y\ cup water 

Yi cup sugar 

Pare core and cut apples into eighths and cook in a syrup 
made by cooking sugar and water. When the apples are half 
done, drain well and put into a buttered pan, pour over this 
any ginger bread mixture and bake. Serve with a sauce made 
by pouring the syrup in which the apples were cooked over 
a well be.-.tc'.i egg. The syrup should be boiling when add'id 
to the c::; (Mrs. Jas. lUu-t) 

A SIMPLE CUSTARD 

2 cups milk 2 tablespoo'is cornstarch 

2 tablespoons sugar 2 eggs (yolks) 

Put sugar and corn starch in small pan with handle, drop 
in the egg yolks, blend, then p.dd milk gradually, place over 
the fire, stirring constantly until it boils up well. Flavor with 
vanilla. Divide in five sherbet glasses. 



Bake apples and pears in a little water long and 
slowly so as to form a rich syrup out of thenieslves. 
Long, slow cooking also develops a rich flavor in prunes. 



MERINGUE 

- ^Sgs 2 teaspoons of cocoa 

2 teaspoons of sugar 

Whip the whites of eggs until they are very stiff Mix 
the sugar and cocoa with a little of egg white th^n blend ill 
together and flavor with a few drops of vanilla. Put this in 
sherbet glasses, place glasses on a pan and put on the toast-^r 
trav until browned. (Mrs. \V. L. Davis) 



ST. JAMES PUDDING 

1 cup molasses 1 cup sweet milk 

% cup butter 1 level teaspoon soda in a 

1 teaspoon cinnamon and a little hot water 

pinch of various other 2^1 cups flour 
spices 

Put in mould greased with butter and steam 31/2 hours. 
.Serve hot with liard sauce. (See sauces) 



PRUNE PUDDING 

1 pt. milk 4 talilcspoons sugar 

V2 cup flour 1 teaspoon salt 

1 lemon 1 |l,. j, runes 
3 eggs 

Grate lemon and heat half the milk with the grated rind 
coming to a scald. Mix the rest of the milk w^ith flour, cook 
until thickened and pour into that the lemon, then add sugar. 
Take from the fire, and add w^ell beaten yolks of eggs. Let 
stand and cool. Have your prunes well cooked and ma«h 
through a colander. Add the juice. Have the whites of the 
eggs well "beaten. Mix prunes with the sauce and fold in the 
whites of the eggs. Put in baking dish, cook 15 minutes. 
Serve with hard sance. (Mrs. C. I. McKee) 



"DON'T WASTE FOOD BY SERVING TOO MUCH." 

Cook just enough for your family. Do not imagine 
you are going to have unexpected guests. The chances 
are that you will only waste good food. Serve smaller 
portions, so that none will be left on the plate." 

"Careless cooking must go." 

"Don't let perishable foods perish in your house. Buy 
only v/hat you need." 

103 



CHARLOTTE RUSSE 

1 tablespoon gelatine dissol(ved 1 pt. doul)Ie thick cream 
in ^ cup coffee Sugar to taste 

When whipping, gradually add your sugar, sifting it as 
you put i.t in. When cream is thoroughly whipped, gradually 
pour in the dissolved gelatine, rubbing it through a tea strainer. 
Have ladyfingers placed around the dish then pour this in the 
center. A delicious dessert is to place this in a mold, pack 
in ice for four or five hours and then turn out as you would 
ice cream. You can use wine for flavoring or fruit juices, dis- 
solving your gelatin first in water but only enough to soften, 
then add your flavoring to the gelatin. 

(Mrs. C. I. McKee) 

ORANGE BAVOISE 

Juice 3 oranges 1^ cups sugar 

1 lemon 1 pint whipped cream 

2 level teaspoons gelatine 

Dissolve gelatine in Vs cup cold water for 15 minutes, then 
place bowl in hot water. Add sugar to fruit and gelatine and 
when partly congealed add whipped cream. 

Mould and set on ice to chill. 

(Miss Helen Barclay) 

WAR PUDDING 

Take 5 or 6. stale muffins, cornmeal, rye or graham, cover 
with milk and when soft beat well and add: 

1 tablespoon brown sugar ^4 teaspoon salt 

1 tablespoon molasses 1 or 2 eggs 

little nutmeg 1 level teaspoon soda 

V2 teaspoon cinnamon J.^ cup raisins or currants 

Pour into a well greased dish or custard cups and steam 
for IV2 hours without lifting the cover. Serve in saine dish. 

(Mrs. A. W. McEldowney) 

WARTIME STEAMED PUDDING 

1% cups Graham Flour 1 cup chopped raisins 

1 cup milk V2 teaspoon salt 

3/2 cup molasses 1 level teaspoon soda 

Sift the graham flour, Init return bran to the sifted mix- 
ture. Dissolve soda in milk, add the molasses and s:ilt and 
pour all over flour. Beat well and add chopped raisins. But- 
ter well a double boiler and pour in mixture. Steam 4 hours 
with tight lid, keeping plenty of water boiling in lower ves- 
sel. Turn out on platter when done. Serve with hard or 
golden sauce. Forty minutes sufficient for steaming in indi- 
vidual moulds. (See golden sauce). 

(Miss Emma B. Suydam> 

104 



BAKED APPLES 

Apples • }^15utter 

Seedless raisins' Molasses 

Pare and core apples of uniiorm size, fill centers with 
seedless raisins. Place a small piece of butter and a teaspoon 
of molasses on each. Put enough water in pan to prevent 
burning. Mrs. W. W. Wishart) 

SPANISH CREAM 

Y2 oz. gelatine ^ eggs 

1% pt. cold milk 4 tablespoons sugar 

Flavor to taste 

Let gelatine stand in milk % hour, then let it come to 

l)oiling point. Stir in the beaten yolks of eggs with sugar. 

Pour this mixture over well beaten whites, put in moulds and 
serve with cream when cold 

GRAPE NUT PUDDING 

1 cup grape nuts 1 tablespoon butter or other 
■/J cup sugar fat 

2 cups milk Pinch salt 

1 teaspoon vanilla 

Scald milk and pour over grapenuts, let stand until cool. 
P^eat eggs,, add sugar and butter and pour into milk and gra-pe- 
nuts mixture. iJake mitil consistency of baked custard. Serve 
with cream. (Mrs. Robert Miller) 

FIG DESSERT 

y2. 11). stewing or layer figs % lb. ])aper shelled almonds 

y> li). seedless raisins K' P''it cream 

Stew figs until tender (about 1 hour to get a thick syrup). 
.Stew raisins also, 1 hour; put figs and syrup in center of round 
plate, about the size of a chop plate, then put the raisins 
around the figs, after that the nuts, adding the cream last, 
which should be beaten very stiff. 

PRUNE WHIP 

2 cups of prunes y^ pt. cream 

Vz package of Jello or gela- 
tine 

Boil prunes until they have a thick syrup; stone one-half 
of the prunes and beat hard, or until they are light; pour Vi 
ijt. boiling water on the Jello, add the beaten prunes when the 
Jello starts to cool; pour into a mold and set in a cold place. 

When the mold is set, turn out on center of round plate, 
put the whole prunes in their own heavy syrup around the 
molded whip; beat the cream very stiff and put on top. {\ 
lew nuts added to the whole prunes is suggested). 

10.S 



PRUNE PUDDING 

1 lb. prunes 3 eggs (whites only) 

Boil prunes 1 J/) hours, or until very little juice is left; 
seed and beat hard until very light. Beat the eggs stii'f and 
mix lightly into the beaten prunes. Bake in deep dish, 10 to 
15 minutes r.nd serve at once. (A custard sauce made from 
the vellovvs of the eggs is sometimes used- 

(Mrs. S, B. Ely) 

LEMON PUDDING 

I^eat the yolks of 3 eggs and m!:i Vv'ith -ji cup sugar, 1 
tablespoon of butter, and 1 scant tablespoon of flour. Beat 
thoroughly and add the juice of 3 good sized lemons and the 
rind of 1 and 4 tablespoons of chopped walnut msats. 

Fold in the whites of 3 eggs after being beaten very stiff. 
Put in pudding dish and bake until stii'f. 

MAPLE SAUCE TO BE SERVED WITH RICE 

2 eggs (yolks) V2 cup whipped cream 
14 cup maple syrup Pinch of salt 

Beat yollcs of eggs until thick. Heat maple syrup, while 
hot stir into yolks. Cook until spoon is coated. Strain and 
beat thoroughly until cooked. Acid whipped cream and salt. 
Serve very cold. (Mrs. J. J. Miller) 

APPLE SAUCE (Made with pineapple syrup) 

Cook as usual, using the syrup from canned or fresh pine- 
apple in place of sugar. (Mrs. W. C. Anderson) 



PRUNES COOKED WITHOUT SUGAR 

Sterilize with boiling water. Soak over night. l^ake in 
a slow oven in the water in which they are soaked. 

SURPRISE PUDDING 

1 cup sugar Juice and rind of half an 

5 eggs .. orange 

1 cup flour 

Cream yolk of eggs and sugar, add orange juice, then flour. 
Whip the wdiites stiff, fold in and bake in slow oven 30 minutes. 

When cold cut hole in center of cake. Whip one pint 
cream stiff, flavor with sherry wine, pour in center of cake. 
Make chocolate sauce and pour around cake and serve. 

(Mrs. W. J. Holland) 



4 apples 
V2 tablespoon flour 
J/4 cup water 



BAKED HONEY APPLES 

Vs cup hone>- 



tablespoon oleomargarine 
Cinnamon 



Score and core apples and arrange in baking dish. Mix 
flour, water and honey and pour over apples. Dot with oleo- 
margarine, sprinkle with cinnamon and bake until soft. 



PLUM PUDDING 



W-i cups finely chopped suet 

1 cup molasses 

1 cup milk 

1/4 cups raisins 

1 cup currants 

V2 cup citron 

Boil 3 hours an 



cups graham flour and 
cornnieal mixed (scald 
cornmeal before using) 
teaspoon soda 
Spice to taste 



ser\c with hot sauce. 

(Mrs. Wni. M. 



lain 



FIG TAPIOCA 



% cup pearl tapioca 
3 cups cold water 
1 H cups light brown sugar 



% cup figs, diced 
% cup walnut meats, cut fine 
luice V2 lemon 



Soak tapioca over night in water with a i)inch oi salt. In 
morning add sugar and figs and cook a full hour in double 
boiler, then sdd nuts and lemon iuice. When coH serve with 
whipped cream. (Miss Anna Dake McCague) 

DATE PUDDING 



small teaspoon baking pow- 
der 
egg 
Cinnamon 



J4 cup butter . 1 

3/ cup sugar 

V2 cup milk 1 

'/2 cup dates 

V2 cup English walnuts 
(chopped fine) 

Make in solid sheet, cut into squares, ])ut vv hipped cream 
and chopped nuts (in addition to half cup) on top. Bake in 
hot oven 20 minutes. 



PRUNE JELLY 



primes 

cup of sugar 



V2 box of Knox's gelatine 
2 cups of water 



Cook the prunes in 2 cups of water until tender. Dissolve 
the gelatine in one cup of water. Remove the seeds and skins 
of the prunes by putting, through colander. Return to the 
liquid, adding sugar. Cook fifteen minutes. Remove from 
fire. Add gelatine and put into individual moulds. Serve with 
cream and sugar. 

(Miss Rachel C. Aiken) 
107 



MARSHMALLOW PUDDING 



V2 pound marshmallows 
1 cup heavy cream 



f 1 tablespoon granulated gela- 
j tine 

Or -j J4 cup cold water 
I % cup scalded cream 

[ 1 cup thin cream 



y2 cup English walnuts 
2 tablespoons powdered sugar 



1 teaspoon vanilla 
y2, cup preserved cherries 

Cut walnut meats and marshmaliow into small pieces. Whip 
heavy (whipping) cream. Add sugar and vanilla, fold in re- 
maining ingredients. Mould and chill. 

For thin cream, soak gelatine in cold water, dissolve in 
scalded cream. Strain into a bowl and add sugar and vanilla. 
Set bowl in pan of ice water and stir constantly till it begins 
to thicken. Then fold in "whip" cream and other ingredients. 

Should gelatine mixture become too thick before adding 
whipped cream melt over hot water and again cool. 

(Miss Helen Heiner) 



BREAD PUDDING 



3 eggs 

1 taljlespoon sugar 
1 lemon 
Butter 



1 cup bread crumbs 
1 quart milk 
Salt 



To well beaten eggs add heaping taljlcsjjoon sugar, gralod 
rind of lemon, 1 tablespoon lemon juice, a little melted butter, 
1 cup bread crum])s rubbed through the hands, salt to taste. 
Add ni'ik. I^iuke in hot oven until brown. 

(Mrs. George E. House) 

CRUMB BREAD PUDDING 



^V2 cups dry bread crumbs 

V2. cup cornmeal 

1 cup (jraham Flour 

1 cup boiling water 



I cup milk 

^ cup molasses 

Yi, teaspoon salt 

1 V-i teaspoons soda 



Pour boiling water over the dried sifted crumbs and let 
stand for 10 mmutes. Sift the other dry ingredients and add 
to crumbs with molasses and milk. Pour into a greased mould 
and steam 3 hours. 

(Mrs. Wm. U. Follansbee) 



HINGHAM PUDDING 



Yi cup Orleans Molasses 

V^ cup water 

1^ cup flour 

;4 cup melted butter 



Vz teaspoon soda 

Y2 teas])oon cinnamon 

Yi, teaspoon ginger 

Yi, teaspoon salt 



Cho])ped nuts and raisins if desired. Steam 1 hour. Serve 
with liard sauce. 

(Mrs. E. 1'". Gcrber) 

108 



STEAMED CHOCOLATE PUDDING 

5 squares Maillard's Chocolate 5 eggs 
5 tablespoons butter 

Melt chocolate ami butter in double boiler, add first yolks 
and then whites of eggs beaten separately. Place in ring mould 
without lid and steam for 35 to 40 minutes. Serve with hot 
chocolate sauce or whipped cream. 

(Mrs. VVm. B. Trainor) 

COTTAGE PUDDING 

Vz cup butter 1 teaspoon soda 

1 cup milk Flour enough to make a 

^ oiks of 2 eggs, beaten stiff batter 

1 cup sugar 

CHOCOLATE BREAD PUDDING 

2 cups milk 2 eggs 

4 tablespoons grated choco- P/^ cups stale bread crumbs 
'^te 2 tablespoons powdered sugar 

2 tablespoons butter \'anilla 

% cup sugar 

Scald the milk, then add the chocolate which has first been 
melted over hot water, then butter and sugar. Stir w^ell and 
pour over soft bread crumbs and beaten egg yolks. Add 
vanilla and pour into buttered baking dish. Bake 30 minutes. 
Make a meringue of the whites of eggs beaten stiff; add ])Ow- 
dered sugar and vanilla. 

SPICED BREAD PUDDING 

1 cup dry bread crumbs % teaspoon salt 

2 cups hot milk 14 teaspoon cinnamon 

% cup seeded raisins % teaspoon each of powdered 

1 egg cloves, nutmeg, allspice, 

V2 cup molasses mace and ginger 

Pour hot milk over the bread crumbs and let stand for 

5 minutes. Steam the raisins at the same time. Then add to 
the milk and crumbs the seasonings, molasses, raisins and a 
well beaten egg. Pour into a buttered baking disli and ])ake 
in a moderate oven for one hour. 

N.'ote — Bread crumbs can be used for stuffing, filling and 
to replace flour in the making of sauces, hot cakes, pudding, 
etc. ■ (Mrs. VVm. U. Follansbee) 

FILLING FOR NUT CAKE 

1 pint whipped cream A little powdered sugar 

Vanilla 14 lb. chopped nuts 

Put this between layers of cake and spread a soft icing 
on top. .\ delicious dessert, but must be used when freshly 
made. (Mrs. C. .\. Rook) 

109 



MOLASSES PIE 

1 cui) liutter 2 eg^s (whites) 

1 cup sugar 1 cup New Orleans molasses 

5 egg;; (yolks) ' 1 teaspoon nutmeg 

Work sugar into softened butter. Add beaten yolks, mi)- 
lasses, nutmeg and slightly beaten whites. Mix all well and 
Lake in pastry. This makes two i>ies. 



ANGEL PUDDING 

Yi cup I'.nglish walnut n)eats 1 M; teaspoon leaking I'owdcr 
l.S dates -Y^ cup i)owdercd sugar 

5 eggs (whites; 

Chop nuts and dates. f5eat whites stiff and add sugar and 
baking pov/der. Mix in dates and nuts. I'fjur into small bak- 
ing dish, i'akc in a slow oven 20 minutes. Serve with whiji- 
ped cream. 

(.Mrs. (/illiFord I!. .Sweeny; 



SNOW PUDDING— CUSTARD SAUCE 

2 cups boiling water 3 tablesijoons cornstarch 

Yi cup sugar • Yz teaspoon vanilla 

Pinch salt 2 eggs (whites) beaten stiff 

Mix water, sugar, salt and vanilla, thicken witii cornstarch. 
While hot add 2 eggs. Whij^ and let cool. 

2 eggs (yolks) i'inch salt 

2 cups milk V2. teaspoon vanilla 

% cup sugar 

1 teasijoon cornstarcii mixed with <;ojrl water. Mix first 
milk, sugar, salt and vanilla and tliicki-ii v.illi cornslarch. Add 
slowly beaten yolks while lioi. 

(Mrs. 1'. M. bulb-r; 



CUSTARD SOUFFLE 

2 tablespoons butter 1 cup milk 

L tablespoons flour 4 eggs 

2 tal)les)jof;ns sugar 

I'.oil milk in double boiler, rujj butter and flour together, 
adil \i> boiliii^i, milk, boil 10 minutes. I'eat yolks of eggs and 
sugar together, add to mixture, set aside to cool. Heat whites. 
Mix all together, jjour into greased pudfling dish. Takes 30 
minnl<rs in ()uick oven. Serve at once with vanilla sauce. 

(Mrs. H. A. Ross; 
110 



DELICATE FRESH STRAWBERRY DESSERT 

-V4 cup tresh strawberries \\ liitc of one egg 

1 full cup granulated sugar 

I'ut all together and whippcu uium stiff. 

Drop fresh strawberries in each dish and SiTve. f^erves 7. 



BLUEBERRY STEAM PUDDING 

1 cup tlour '•_> cup milk 

1 tablespoon lard 2 teaspoons Royal baking 

1 egg powder 

Pinch* of salt 1 cup Idueberries 
1 tablespoon sugar 

lUitter dout)ie boiler, steam I'j hours, serve \v:th cream. 



BROWN PUDDING 

1'.- cups draham Flour 1 cup raisins 

1 cup sweet milk 1 teasroop soda 

H cup molasses Pinch of salt 

Steam .^ hom's and serve with nutnu-g since. (See s:uicesV 



ICED RICE PUDDING 

J cups boiled rice (, mashed 2 eggs and 4 tablespoons 

'me) powdered sugar 

1 lemon 1'.. pts. boiling milk 

.\dd the boiling milk, yolks of eggs well beaten and rind 
of lemon to the rice. Return to fire stirring all the time, and 
let boil until it thickens to a custard. Pour into shallow dish 
and spread with meringue made from well beaten whites of 
eggs, powdered sugar and juice from one-half lemon. I'ut in 
hot oven until putted and a delicate brown. Serve ice col.l 
with preserved cherries or strawberries if desired. 



ITALIAN CREAM 

's t>ox gelatine 2 eggs 

1 pt. milk ^2 cup sugar 

\ unilla 

Soak gelatine one-half hour in cold water, put milk in 
double boiler. When boiling, stir in yolks of eggs, well beaten, 
add sugar and gelatine. When custard begins to thicken take 
otY and i>our into a deep dish' in which the whites have been 
beaten to stilT froth, l-'lavor with vanilla. Put into mould an 1 
allow 4 hours to cool. 

>Mis r. W. l-riend> 



NEW ENGLAI'D INDIAN PUDDING 

1 quart milk (boiling) 1 teaspoon ginger and salt 

1 scant cup cornmeal 1 quart cold milk 

Butter (size of an egg) 2 eggs (well beaten) 
1 small cup molasses 

Add the cornmeal (which has been mixed with a little ot 
the cold milk) to the quart of milk, when nearlj' boiling. To 
this, while boiling, add butter, molasses, cold milk, eggs, gin- 
ger and salt. Bake two hours. 

(Mrs. Chester B. Albree) 

TROY PUDDING 

1/2 cup chopped suet V2 teaspoon soda 

V2 cup seeded raisins 5^ cup milk 

Vs cup molasses 2 cups flour 

5/2 teaspoon salt 

Dissolve soda in milk, after which mix all ingredients to- 
gether and steam three hours. Currants and citron if desired. 
(Serve with cornstarch sauce.) 



PEACH PUDDING 

2 eggs (beat yolks) 6 tablespoons granulated 

1 ■ cup of milk sugar 

V2 teaspoon salt 3 teaspoons baking powder 

1 tablespoon melted btUter 

Mix and beat in l^^^ cups of flour, into which has been 
sifted the baking powder. Stir in carefully well beaten whites 
of eggs and pour the batter into shallow, well greased pans. 
Put halves of canned (or fresh) peaches over the top and 
sprinkle with 6 tablespoons of granulated sugar. Bake in 
quick oven j4 hour. Serve warm with sauce. 

Sauce. Use liquor from canned peaches or whipped cream 
with thickened sauce. (Miss Bertha Young) 



RICE CUSTARD 

1 cup rice, boiled and still hot 2 eggs 

3 cups milk 1 tablespoon cornstarch 

•K cup sugar Flavor to taste 

Make a custard of milk and corn starch sugar and yolks 
of eggs. Stir into this the cup of rice, add flavoring (nutmeg) 
and orange or lemon peel). Turn into a pudding dish and 
bake until set. Make a meringue of the whites of the eggs. 
This pudding should be soft enough to eat without cream. 

(Mrs. Joseph H. Moore) 
112 



TAPIOCA CUSTARD 

3 tablespoons pearl tapioca 3 talilespoons sugar vanilla 

2 cups milk Orange juice or rind, grated 

2 eggs 

Soak tai)ioca 4 or 3 hours in half cup of water. Have milk 
boiling, stir in tapioca, let simmer. Stir often till tapioca 
is clear, then pour over yolks of 2 eggs whipped with the 
sugar. Return to the stove and let simmer till custard is thick. 
Turn in bowl, flavor with vanilla or orange juice or grated 
rind. Stir in lightly the whipped whites of eggs. 

RHUBARB 

A fair amount of pink skinned 1 cup honey 
rhubarb 1 cup water 

Stew slowly al)out 20 minutes. 

(Mrs. Taylor Allderdice) 

SUGGESTION FOR DESSERT 

Small quantities of lemon or coffee jelly or Spanish cream 
can be made presentable and utilized by placing a few spoons- 
ful in sherbet glasses and capping with a well flavored mer- 
ingue of white of eggs and sugar or whipped cream. 

(Mrs. Albert Kingsbury) 

RUSSIAN CASCELL 

Drain juice from any kind of canned fruit or mixture 
of fruits. Cut fruit into small pieces and put on a plate. 
Sprinkle with sugar and put in oven to dry. Strain the juice 
and put over the fire to boil. While boiling stir in corn starch 
mixed with cold water, allowing 2 tablespoons of corn starch 
to each pint of juice. Stir constantly until it boils and then 
beat until clear. Arrange in sherbet glasses with the pieces 
of fruit through it and serve cold with whipped cream or cream 
and sugar. This may be made with dried stewed fruits, dried 
peaches or apricots are especially nice. 

(Mrs. W. L. Davis) 

CHARLOTTE RUSSE FLUFF 

2J/2 teaspoons or ^ box gela- 1 tablespoon vanilla 
tine 1 pint cream 

1 cup sugar 4 grated macaroons or nuts or 

^4 cup water fruit 

1 egg 

Soak gelatine in J4 cup water for Yz hour. Set cup in boiling 
water until dissolved. Make a custard of milk, sugar and egg. 
Add gelatine and vanilla and set aside to cool. Whip cream and 
add custard to it with \vhip]:)er. Pour into mould. 

(Mrs. -Mexander .\imick) 



APPLE CUSTARD 

1 dozen apples 1 quart milk 

4 eggs Sugar and butter 

4 tablespoons flour 

Pare and core uniform apples. Place in shallow bake dish, 
fill center with sugar and put bit of butter on top. Beat eggs 
separately. Beat these ingredients 8 or 10 minutes and pour 
around the apples (not over them) and bake until apples are 



CARROT PUDDING 

1 cup grated potatoes J^ cup raisins 

1 cup grated carrots Vs cup butter 

1 cup sugar V2 teaspoon cloves 

1 cup flour yi teaspoon cinnamon 

y^ cup currants V2 teaspoon nutmeg 

Stir 1 teaspoon of soda into the potatoes, flour and raisins. 
Grease pail, cover tight, steam 3^ hours. Serve witli sauce. 

(Mrs. H. C. Torrance) 



GRAHAM AND FIG PUDDING 

4 tablespoons Graham Flour in Ij/; cup English walnuts 
1 pt. water — cook 15 min., add 1 cup sugar 
1 lb. bgs, chopped Pinch salt 

Boil 15 minutes, put in mold. Serve with whipped cream, 
a lemon, or hard sauce. Serves 10 portions. 

(Mrs. F. M. Fuller) 



ICE BOX PUDDING 

\V2 cakes sweet chocolatci 4 eggs 

melted 1 teaspoon vanilla 

2 tablespoons boiling water I5/ doz. lady fingers 

2 tablespoons pulverized su- 
gar 

To the melted chocolate add boiling water, pulverized su- 
gar, the yolks of eggs stirred in one at a time, teaspoon vanilla. 
Stir in beaten whites of eggs. 

I^ine a mould or pan with waxed paper. Separate ladv 
fingers. Lay a layer of cake and a layer of sauce until all 
is used. Put in ice box to settle, and serve with wliii)i)ed 
cream. ■ (Miss Alice G. McChesney) 

IN 



BANANA FLIP 

2 l)ananas 1 Ic-iium 

2 eggs, whites Salt 

S tablespoons pulverized sugar 

I'oat the whites of cgf:;s to a stilT troth with a pinch of salt 
and sugar. Add pulp of bananas which have been pressed 
through a potato ricer. Also the juice of lemon. 

Serve in sherbet cups with boiled custard or w]iipi)ed 
cream. 

Stewed apricots, rijjc jieachcs, prunes or any fruit of wliich 
pulp may l)e made. (Mrs. h'rcdcric 1. Merrick) 

BANANA CREAM 

2 tablespoons granulated V2 cu]) honey 
gelatine juice 1 lemon 

1^,^ cups hot niiHc 1 cup whipped cream 

3 ripe bananas 

Soften gelatini.- in '4 cup of cold water and dissolve it in 
the hot milk. .\dd the bananas mashed and put through a 
siev« with the lemon-juice. Add honey. When cold and be- 
ginning to stiffen whij) the cream. Pour into a cold, wet 
mold and place in the refrigerator to stifi'en. 

.Any other fruit may be used. 

(Mrs. Edward J. House) 



RASPBERRY SPONGE 

l\^ tablespoons granulated 1 cup raspberry juice 

gelatine Juice of 1 lemon 

J4' cup cold water Whites of 3 eggs 

V2 cup boiling water .1 pint cream 

1 cup sugar 

Soak gelatine in cold water and dissolve in the boiling 
water. Strain and add sugar, raspberry juice and lemon. 
Chill in pan of ice water. When quite thick, Leat with egg 
whisk mitil frothy, then add the whites of eggs beaten stiff 
and fold in the whipped cream. 

(Mrs. S. B. McCormick) 

CREAMED RICE WITH BRANDIED FIGS 

2 cups cold boiled rice \ anilla 

1 cup whipped cream llrandied figs 

Take rice aiul l)cat with it w Iiiijjjed cream Ihuored with 
vanilla. Arrange in individual portions, cover top witli 
brandied figs and serve with cream. 



RICE SOUFFLE 

y-2 cup rice 2 tablespoons butter 

% cup milk 1 teaspoon vanilla 

4 eggs 1 cup Sultana raisins 

2 tablespoons sugar Lemon or orange rind 

Boil rice in 3 cups salted water. Add milk and cook until 
milk is absorbed. Put in yolks of eggs beaten with sugar and 
butter. Cook a moment, remove from fire. Add raisins, vanilla 
and grated rind of a lemon or orange. Fold in the beaten 
whites of eggs and bake in buttered dish 30 minutes. Serve 
hot with a hard sauce. 



MARSHMALLOW CREAM 

Vz lb. marshmallows 1 tablespoon corn starch 

1 cup whipped cream Red raspberry juice. 

Y-2. cup chopped nuts 

Cut marshmallow in pieces; add whipped cream and nuts; 
stir together and let stand all night. Thicken with corn starch 
and serve with red raspberry juice. 

(Mrs. Edward J. House) 



MANHATTAN PUDDING 

1% cups orange juice ]^ cup powdered sugar 

Y\ cup lemon juice ^2. tablespoon vanilla 

Sugar to taste % cup chopped nuts 
1 pint whipping cream 

Mix fruit juices and sweeten to taste. 

Turn inixture into brick mould. Whip cream and add 
sugar, vanilla, and nut meats. Pour over first mixture to fill 
mould. Cover with greased paper. Fit on cover, pack in salt 
and ice, and let stand for three hours. 

(Mrs. W. J. Holland) 



FROZEN CHERRY PUDDING 

1 pint milk 1 quart whipped cream 
XYz cups sugar 1 large cup rich preserved 

2 eggs cherries 
Vanilla Wine 

2 tablespoons gelatine 

Make custard with milk, eggs, 1 cup sugar and vanilla. 
Add to this gelatine which has been soaked in cold water. 
When cold add whipped cream and J^ cup sugar. Flavor with 
wine and when mixture is partly frozen, add preserved cher- 
ries. (Miss Louise M. Richardson) 

116 



MAPLE MOUSSE 

1 cup maple sugar 1 pint cream 

4 eggs Salt 

Heat maple syrup. Let cool slightly and beat slowly 
into the beaten yolks of eggs and let cook until thick like 
candy. Beat stiffly the whites of the eggs and add to them a 
pinch of salt and cream, whipped. Let siyrup and yolks cool 
and then fold into the stiffly beaten cream and whites of eggs. 
Pour into mould and ])ack in ice and salt, 3 to 4 hours. 

(Mrs. C. R. Peddle) 



FROZEN APPLE FLOAT 

3 pints stewed apples Sugar 

1 pint cream Vanilla 

4 eggs 

Put apples through sieve, sweeten to taste and flavor with 
vanilla. Beat this light with egg, whip and add well beaten 
eggs. Before freezing add the cream. This makes three 
quarts when frozen. (Miss Louise M. Richardson) 



MAPLE ICE CREAM 

1 quart cream 5^4 lb. pecans 

1 cup maple sugar 

To 1 quart of rich cream add maple sugar, chopped pecans, 
and freeze. 



MAPLE PARFAIT 

1 cup maple syrup 1 pint cream 

4 eggs 

To maple syrup add beaten yolks of eggs. Stir until this 
comes to boil. Strain and cool. Whip cream and add beaten 
whites of eggs. Mix all together and freeze. 

(Mrs. Paul Sturtevant) 



APPLE DUMPLINGS 

Sauce — Make sauce first. 

2 cups sugar (brown and white 2 cups l)oiling water 

mixed 1 lemon cut thin and in small 

2 tablespoons flour pieces 

2 tablespoons butter 



PASTRY 

1 pint flour % cup milk 

2 teaspoons baking powder 1 tablespoon, each butter and 
Vz teaspoon salt lard 

Roll thin, sprinkle with butter, sugar and cinnamon. Spread 
over this 3 or 4 apples chopped fine and make into a roll. 
Cut into eight dumplings. Pour over them y2 the sauce and 
bake 40 minutes in moderate oven. Serve with the other half 
of sauce, heated. (Mrs. George M. House) 

COTTAGE CHEESE CUSTARD PIE 

!/2 cup cheese V^ cup sugar 

2 eggs 1 cup milk 

Drop piece of butter liere and there on top. Bake in pie 
crust. • (Mrs. II. A. Ross) 

RHUBARB PIE 

Crust Filling 

2 cups pastry flour \\'2 cups cut rhubarb 

J/4 cup butter 1 cup sugar 

% cup lard Mix and add to one beaten egg 

Chon brd and butter into flour, m'x with ice water. Roll 
lightly, fold three or four times, add filling and bake. 

CHERRY PUDDING 

To two tablespoons of cornstarch mixed to a smooth 
paste with a little cold milk, add two cups of milk and one 
tablespoon of sugar; flavor with the grated peel of one lemon, 
put into a double boiler and boil until it becomes thick; re- 
move from the fire, stir in a cup of canned cherries, let cool, 
then pour into a serving bowl and decorate with some of 
the cherries. Whipped cream is an addition. Other canned 
fruits may be used in place of cherries. 

STRAWBERRY SHORT CAKE 

1 cup sugar 2 cups flour 

Vz cup butter 2 teaspoons Royal baking pow- 

2 eggs der 
1 cup milk 

Mix butter and sugar, then well beaten eggs, then m Ik 
and flour and baking powder. Bake in 2 cake pans, J^^ pint of 
cream, 2 boxes berries. Keep best berries for top, crushing 
the remaining berries, sweetening to taste an hour or so be- 
fore serving. (Mrs. H. A. Ross) 

lis 



APPLE POPOVERS 

Vz cup flour Sweet milk, enough to 

1 teaspoon baking powder make soft dough 

1 teaspoon butter 

Slice apples or peaches and jnit in bottom of cui)S. Put 
a little sugar, butter and nutmeg on top of fruit. 

Drop mixture over fruit in cups and steam an hour. 

(Mrs. Paul Sturtevant) 

STEAM SUET PUDDING 

hot 





cup chopped 


suet 


1 


teaspoon soda in 




cup molasses 






water 


1 \A 


cups milk 




% 


teaspoon salt 




cup raisins 




2 


teaspoons cinnamon 




cup currants 




1 


teaspoon cloves 


V2 


cup citron 









Graham flour to thicken enough to pour off spoon (not too 
stiff); fill well greased mold and steam 3 hours. 

(Mrs. H. P. Allen) 



When fruit has fermented slightly, reheat it, add a 
small amount to light brown sugar, and use for pies. 



119 



Pie for War Time 



CRUSTS 

RYE PIE CRUST 

1% cups wheat flour 1 teaspoon salt 

I1/2 cups rye flour 1 scant cup Crisco 

Ice water to mix. It will take about 1% cups. 

Mix dry ingredients and cut shortening in with a knife- 
Add water gradually, using just enough to hold together. 

Roll out, handling as little as possible, 
for several days. (Mrs. Mary R. DeMotte) 

BARLEY 

2 cuiKs liarlcy flour Vs cud vegetable oil 

1 teaspoon salt V2 teaspoon baking powder 

(."ombine as for other pastry, adding enough water for 
a stiff dough. 

CORNMEAL AND WHEAT 

> V2 cup cornmeal V2 teaspoon salt 

1/2 cup wheat flour 2 tablespoons vegetable oil 

Combine ingredients, using encugh liquid to make a dough 
that can be rolled thin. Bake in quick oven. 

OATMEAL 

2 cups 'finely ground oatmeal 1 teaspoon salt 

1 cup boiling water 2 teaspoons vegetable oil 

Scald the oatmeal with the water. Add the oil and mix 
thoroughly. Roll ver}^ thin and line small pie or tart tins 
with the mixture. Bake in a hot oven. 

RICE 

IV2 cups rice flour V2 teaspoon ."-alt 

yi cup wheat flour Ice water 

V3 cup crisco 

Work shortening and flour well together, using the tips 
of the fingers or a knife. Moisten with ice water and keep 
•-n a cool place until ready to use. 

COTTAGE CHEESE RICE PIE CRUST 

V2 cup cottage cheese 1 cup rice flour 

6 tablespoons vegetable oil 6 to 8 tablespoons ice water 
}/2 teaspoon salt 

Cream shortening, salt and cheese very thoroughly to- 
gether, then add flour and blend well. 

(War Food Bureau, Women's Civic League, Baltimore) 

122 



MINCE MEAT WITHOUT MEAT 

1 pk. green tomatoes chopped 2 teaspoons cinnamon 
fine 2 teaspoons cloves 

2 qts. apples chopped fine 1 teaspoon grated nutmeg 

1 cup suet chopped fine 1 teaspoon salt 

2 lbs. raisins %teaspoon pepper 
4 lbs. brown sugar 

Mix all together and cook J/$ hour. Take from stove and 
add 1 large cup of boiled cider or vinegar. Seal in jars while 
hot. (Miss Mary O'Hara Darlington) 

SUGARLESS FILLINGS 

APPLE 

Make an apple sauce, using white syrup instead of sugar; 

fill shells made with war-time pie crust; sprinkle top with 

chopped nuts; place a square of currant jelly in the center of 
each. 

APPLE-RAISIN 

Wash and soak one cup seedless raisins over night; sim- 
mer in same water for an hour; add one quart peeled quartered 
apples and one-half cup white syrup; simmer together until 
done; fill tart shells made with war-time pie crust. 

ORANGE 

1 cup boiling water 3 eggs 

4 tablespoons cornstarch % cup white corn syrup 

1 large juicy orange 1 teaspoon lemon juice 

Rub cornstarch smooth with a little cold water, add the 
boiling water and cook for five minutes; add the pulp and 
part of the grated rind of the orange, the syrup and the lemon 
juice; heat thoroughly and pour slowly on the beaten yolks of 
the eggs; beat well; pour into tart shells made with war- 
time pie crust; cover with meringue made from the whites 
of the eggs and flavored with leinon juice; sprinkle with 
grated lemon peel; brown in oven; serve cold. 



"War Candy" 



NUT BALLS 

% lb. walnut meat V^ package Karo or Maple Syrup 

Yi lb. seedless raisins V^ package Puffed Rice 

Boil syrup until ready to candy. Chop nuts and raisins 
and add to syrup about 3 minutes before taking from fire. 
Add puffed rice the last thing before turning out on buttered 
platter. Roll into balls the size of a large marble. 

STUFFED FIGS 

Soak figs in sherry over night. Stuff with black walnut 
meats and cherries chopped together. Roll in maple sugar. 

HONEY CANDY 

1 cup strained honey 1 tablespoon butter 

2 cups brown sugar 34 cup milk 

Boil until it forms a soft ball when tried in cold water. 
Beat until it is thick. I'our into buttered pan. Cut in squares 
and w^ap in paraffin paper. 

KARO DIVINITY 

3 cups brown sugar 2 eggs (whites) 
Vt. cup Karo ^ teaspoon salt 

1 square chocolate 1 cup chopped nuts 

% cup water Vz teaspoon vanilla 

Cook the sugar, Karo and water, until it forms a soft ball 
when tried in water, having added the chocolate melted over 
hot water. Beat the whites of eggs very stiff, and add other 
ingredients. Pour on the hot syrup, beating all the time. 
When mixture will stand alone, drop from teaspoon on but- 
tered plates. The chocolate may be omitted. 

(Mrs. Frederic I. Merrick) 



"POPCORN HAS POWER." 

Popcorn is very valuable as a food. Give the chil- 
dren popcorn balls made with honey or corn syrup. The 
children will be happy and satisfied, and you will be help- 
ing your country by saving on other sweets. 

125 



PUFFED RICE WAR CANDY 

1 cup sugar 3 tal)lespoonsful molasses 

V2 cup water V2 teaspoon salt 

1 tablespoon vinegar Boil until drops hard in 

Boil for 5 minutes water. 

Add piece of butter size 

of egg 

Mix puffed rice previously heated in hot syrup, spread on 
buttered pans to cool. 

STUFFED DATES 

Select nice, solid dates. Seed and fill with any preferred 
nuts. Dip in maple sugar. 

MAPLE FONDANT 

l)oiI any desired cpiantity of maple sugar (1 pt. makes 
about ■)4 lb) until it rolls into a soft ball when dropi)ed in 
cold water. I'our out on large platter or marble slab. P>eat 
with spoon until it can be handled, then knead until it is soft 
and creamy. 

If the fondant is not to be used immediately, place it in 
a covered vessel and keep it in refrigerator or some cool place 
until needed. 

Maple fondant is made and used exactly like the regular 
fondant made from white sugar, and like the white, can be 
made up in numerous ways: 

Stuffed Figs — Dates, or any candied or preserved fruits. 

Loaf — Made by kneading into a small loaf or fondant 
chopped nuts, seedless raisins, or chopped dried or candied 
fruits and slicing it with sharp knife. 

Creams — Shape round or oval as desired and garnish with 
nuts, etc. 

Wafers — Ivemelt fondant in double boiler and drop on 
oiled jiajjcr. 

Cream Covered — Grapes, strawberries, nuts, etc., are made 
by dipping in the fondant that has been remelted in double 
boiler. 

Balls — ^Shape fondant in balls and roll in finely chopped 
nuts, cocoanut, etc. 

"EAT NATURAL SWEETS IN PLACE 
OF CANDY." 

Eat dates and figs and other sweet fruits. Eat maple 
sugar and honey, where you can get it, instead of candy. 



MAPLE COCOANUT BALLS 

1 fresh cocoamit (grated finely)! 11). Maple Sugar 

Cook maple sugar in tlie milk from tlie cocoanut (if milk 
does not measure a full cup add a little water). When the 
candy rolls into a soft ball when dropped in cold water, re- 
move from stove and beat until creamy. 

Add % of grated cocoanut and stir lightly until well nii\e>l 
with candy, pour immediatel,y on large i)latter or slab until it 
is cool enough to handle. Knead into soft uniform consistency 
and roll into balls about the size of a large marble. As each 
ball is linished roll it in the remaining grated cocoanut. Lav 
balls on i)lattcr or oiled i)aper to harden. 

Dry shredded cocoamit may ])e used if the fresh cannot 
be obtained (the flavor is not nearly so good) and the sng.ir 
cooked in a cu]) of water or milk. 

CHOCOLATE MAPLE FUDGE 

1 11). Maple Sugar b'ew drops of \anilla if de- 

1 cup milk sired 

K' cake Baker's Chocolate 

Boil milk and sugar tnitil candy rolls into soft ball, when 
dropped in cold water. W hen about half done add chocolate, 
stirring constantly to prevent burning. Just before removing 
from fire add vanilla. Beat until creamy and i)our out in 
greased pan to harden. When about half cooled cut into 
squares with a hot knife. 

These are just "'Alary Elizabetirs" recipes, simplified so 
as to be possible for tbe amateur who docs not have a candy 
thermometer or the many api)liances whicli the i)rofession;i'l 
candy maker uses. 

(Miss Letitia Hunter) 

BLACK WALNUT TAFFY 

1 quart New Orleans Molasses 1 cMip chopped black walnuts 
1 cup brown sugar rinch of soda 

1 tablespoon butter 

Boil molasses and brown sugar until it cracks in cold 
water. Add soda. While cooling add nuts and butter. I 'nil 
as long as possible. Cut as desired. 

HONEY ROLL 

V2 cup strained honey 1 cup of either raisins, dates 

1 cup chopped mixed nuts or ligs (or mixed) 

If raisins are used carefully remove all seeds. 

Thoroughly mix, put in a mould, placing a weight ui)on 
it, and let stand 4.S hours before cutting in s(iuarcs. 

127 



CARAMEL FUDGE 

2 cups lirown sugar 1 cup milk 

Stir constantliy until it forms a soft ball in cold water. 
Then beat until cold. I'our in pan and cut in squares. 

BROWN SUGAR FUDGE 

2 cups brown sugar 1 tablespoon butter 

1 cup milk 2 oz. chocolate 

,'4 teaspoon of cream of Tartar 

Boil together until it forms a soft ball in cold water. 

When cool add the butter and beat until very stiff. Then 

add 2 or 3 tablespoons of cream, pour in pan and cut in 
squares. 

SEA FOAM 

2 cups light brown sugar Whites of 2 eggs 

1 cup water 

Boil sugar and water together until it forms a soft ball. 
Beat the whites of the eggs very stiff and slowly add the 
boiled syrup. Beat until it will drop from the spoon. 

MOLASSES CANDY 

1 quart New Orleans Molasses 1 tablespoon butter 
1 cup brown sugar Pinch of soda 

Boil sugar and molasses until it will crack in cold water. 
Add butter and soda, cool and pull as long as possible. 

(Mrs. J. M. Thorne) 

POPCORN CANDY 

For making pop-corn candy either honey, maple syrup, 
molasses, white cane syrup or corn syrup may be used instead 
of sugar. To one cup of syrup allow one tablespoon of vine- 
gar. Boil together until syrup hardens when dropped in cold 
water. Pour over freshly pop_^ed corn and mold into balls or 
fancy shapes. 



108 



Beverages 

EGG NOG 

1 egg )4 cup milk 

Pinch of salt Vanilla or nutmeg 

Separate egg. Beat yolk, add sugar and salt and beat 
until creamy. Add milk and flavoring. Beat whites until 
foamy, but not dry. Fold in lightly and serve immediately. 

Note — Chill egg and ijiilk before blending. 

(Miss Rachel C. Aiken) 

MULLED CLARET 

Remove core from an apple, put into oven and bake. Take 
out of oven and fill with sugar and cloves. Tie apple in a 
piece of cheese cloth and drop into 1 quart of claret. Let 
simmer slowly for Yz hour and serve hot. 

A domestic claret may be used. 

(Miss Addah Gerdes) 

MULLED CIDER 

To 1 quart sweet cider, 4 tablespoons sugar, add 1 tea- 
spoon whole cloves and some stick cinnamon tied in piece of 
cheese cloth. Boil together for five minutes and serve steaming 
hot. 

GINGER ALE PUNCH 

1 orange Sprig of mint 

1 lemon 

To 1 bottle of ginger ale add the juice of 1 orange and 1 
lemon. Pour over crushed ice, add sprig of mint, and serve. 

WARTIME-ADE 

5 lemons (juice) 1 bunch mint (leaves) 

1^ cups sugar % cup water 

Allow to stand Vz hour. Strain over ice. Add 3 or 4 pints 
ginger ale. Garnis,b glasses with mint. 

HOT CHOCOLATE 

1 quart milk 2 tablespoons sugar 

1 block chocolate 1 teaspoon vanilla 

Heat milk • in double boiler. Dissolve grated chocolate 
and sugar with a little hot water. Add hot milk and beat 
with egg beater, adding vanilla if desired. 

130 



ICED CHOCOLATE 

1 cup corn syrup 2 tablespoons strong coffee 

1 cup warm water Cracked ice 

y^ cup cocoa Cream 

Mix over hot water until dissolved, then boil to a heavy 
syrup. 

When thoroughly chilled add coffee. For 1 glass use 2 
or 3 tablespoons of the mixture to the same amount of cracked 
ice and y^ cup of cream. Shake well. Can be kept on ice 
for several days. (Mrs. Mary R. DeMotte) 

GINGER PUNCH 

Candied ginger and rhubarb juice sweetened, are the chi^f 
ingredients. 



131 



Preserved Fruits 

FRESH PEACHES 

Wash and boil jars and lids. Peal peaches, cut in halves, 
place in jars. Boil syrup, proportion, 1 Va cups of sugar to 
3 cups of water. 

Pour syrup over fruit, filling jars. Put lids on without 
screwing tight. Set in boiler with water ito shoulder of jar. 
Boil until the peaches are tender. Have kettle of water boiling 
on the stove. Lift jars out of boiler, dip rubber bands in 
boiling water for a minute, put on jars, fill to overflowing 
with the boiling syrup and screw lids tight. Do not have 
more than 1 jar open at a time. 

In doing a small amount of fruit, or when working alone, 
it is better to do a few jars at a time. Then while filling 2 
jars the syrup is boiling. Before starting to fill the third jar 
set both kettles off the fire. By the time the third jar is filled, 
the syrup and cooked fruit are both cool enough to handle. 

Plums and small fruits, except blackberries, may be done 
this way. 

It is not necessary to place fruit in cold water to keep 
from discoloring as when hot syrup is poured on. it takes 
away any discoloration. 

PEARS AND QUINCES 

Sterilize jars and lids. 

Prepare fruit and boil in plenty of water until tender. 
Remove fruit from kettle, measure liquid and sweeten in pro- 
portion of 1 cup sugar to 3 cups liquid. Boil syrup 10 min- 
utes. Put fruit in syrup and boil 10 minutes. 

Fill jars and set in boiler with water to shoulder of jars. 
Rubber and lids must be on, but lids not screwed down. 

Cover jars with clean cloth (several thicknesses) and cook 
for an hour. Remove from boiler and tighten tops. 

(Mrs. II. C. McEldowney) 

STRAWBERRY PRESERVES 

1 cup strawberries 2 cups sugar 

Cook (> minutes after they start to boil. 

'PEACH AND PINEAPPLE PRESERVES 

5 lbs. peaches M lbs. sugar to each lb. fruit 

2 lbs. pineapple 

Pare the pineapple and put through the meat grinder. Put 
the sugar and pineapples on the stove and cook slowly. Pare 
the peaches and cut in small dice. Cook the sugar and pine- 
apple until clear aiid then add the peaches and cook until 
preserved. (Mrs. W. Seward B. Hays) 

132 



GRAPE MARMALADE 

Pick over, wash, drain and stem grapes. Separate pulp 
from skin. Put pulp in preserving kettle. Meat to boiling 
point and cook slowly until seeds separate from pulp, then 
rub through cheese cloth or hair sieve. Return to kettle with 
skins. Add an equal measure of sugar and cook slowly 30 
minutes, occasionally stirring to prevent burning. Put m 
tumblers or jars. (Mrs. H. A. Ross) 

GOOSEBERRY CHUTNEY 

4 lbs. gooseberries (green) 1 tablespoon ground cloves 

4 lbs. sugar 1 tablespoon cinnamon 

1 pint vinegar A little Cayenne Pepper 

Put the sugar and vinegar on until it boils, then add the 
berries and spices and boil half an hour. You can either put 
them in bottles or jelly cans and cover with paper, like pre- 
serves. (Mrs. H. C. Torrance) 

SPICED CURRANTS 

3 pints currants 1 tablespoon whole cloves 

2 pints sugar 1 tablespoon cinnamon 
1 small cup vinegar 

Cook currants with cloves and cinnamon until soft, 
and strain through cheese cloth. Then measure currants, sugar 
and vinegar. Cook with this several cloves and cinnamon tied 
in a little cheese cloth bag. Cook until it jellys. 

PICKELED PRUNES 

4 lbs. prunes 1 oz. each cloves and cinnamon 

2 lbs. sugar ]4 oz. ginger 

1 pt. vinegar 

Boil spices, sugar and vinegar together 10 minutes. Soak 
primes 24 hours and steam 15 minutes. Add spices, vinegar 
and sugar, and boil until clear and fruit tender. 

(Miss Helen Barclay) 

SPICED PEACHES 

9 lbs. peaches Whole cloves 

4 lbs. sugar Stick cinnamon 
1 i)t. vinegar 

Put sugar and vinegar in a kettle, boil and skim, after 
which throw in the peaches and cook soft. Lift them out 
and let the juice boil until thick. Put the cinnamon and 
cloves in a muslin bag and boil with the juice. 

(Mrs. Mortimer C. Miller) 
133 



KURNQUAT MARMALADE 

Let the Kurnquats stand in salted water, changing the 
water each morning for three mornings. Dry the fruit and 
slice thin, taking out the seeds, put in preserving kettle with 
enough water to almost cover them, cook twenty minutes, 
then add a scant cup of sugar to a full cup of Kurnquats and 
boil 10 minutes more. Put in glasses. Serve with ice cream 
or ices for dessert. (Mrs. Gilliford B. Sweeny) 

STRAWBERRIES 

Weigli fruit and take an equal weight of sugar. Put sugar 
in kettle with just a little water. Boil until syrup is thick 
as honey. Put strawberries in syrup. Cook until berries 
are clear. 

Wash and boil jars and lids while fruit is cooking. Fill 
jars to overflowing, di]> rul)bers in boiling water l)efore using. 
Screw lids tight. 

DELICIOUS STRAWBERRY JAM 

Equal measures, not weight, of strawberries and sugar. 
Mix and let stand over niglit. Put on to cook, witliout water. 
Cook 23 minutes from commencement of boding. Allow to 
cool in kettle. 

Wash and scald glasses just before using, rinse with 
cold water. 

(Mrs. H. C. McEldowney* 

STRAWBERRIES AND CHERRIES 

1 quart strawberries 1 pint water 

1 quart cherries 1 pound sugar (granulated) 

Make a syrup; mit fruit in and cook about 20 minutes. 

STRAWBERRIES AND PINEAPPLES 

1 quart strawberries, mashed 1 pineapple, grated 

Not quite the amount of sugar that you have fruit. Boil 
seven minutes and seal. 

(Mrs. D. M. Buck) 

RAISIN AND GRAPE MARMALADE 



8 


lbs. 


of ripe grapes 


11/2 lbs. raisins 


4 


lbs. 


sugar 


2 oranges 



Pulp grapes (saving the skins) put on to boil until seeds 
rise and can be strained through a colander. Add skins and 
boil 15 minutes. Add sugar, raisins and oranges (including 
peel). Boil three-quarters of an hour. 

(Mrs. E. S. Govdale) 
134 



GRAPE JUICE 

Wash and stem Concord grapes, cover with water, scald 
and strain. To each quart of juice, add one quart of water, 
one cup of sugar; let come to boiling jioint; bottle and seal. 
seal. 

GRAPE BUTTER 

^ Take remaining pul]) and wash tlirough sieve, about ^4 

cup water to 2 cups pulp. To each cup of pulp, add same 
amount of sugar. Mix well and cook slowly until thick, 
stirring often. Tliis butter requires much less cooking than 
peach or apple. 

I GRAPE JUICE FOR FREEZING 

I Take the pulp left in the sieve and add more water, boil 

I and strain. Add equal parts sugar. Roil about 5 nxinutes making 
[ a syrup for freezing. 

GRAPE JUICE 

Select fresh Concord grapes — wash, stem, and place in 
vessel with very little water, just enough to start grapes 
cooking. 

Cook until soft, strain tlirough cheese cloth and let 
stand until settled. Pour off, return to stove add small 
amount of sugar, taking care not to sweeten too much as 
more can be added as desired. Barely let come to boil. Pour 
into hot sterilized bottles or jars and seal. Serve with crushed 
ice. Water can be added. 

CANNED RHUBARB 

Prepare and stew as for ordinary table use, but cook a 
shorter time and use half as much sugar and a very small 
amount of water. Put in sterilized jars and seal. When used, 
sugar may be added to taste. 

CANNED PEACHES 

CANNED PEARS 

CANNED SWEET APPLES 

Pare and cut in halves, barely cover with hot water, 
cook until tender, place in sterilized jars standing in hot 
water. 

Strain water in which fruit was cooked. With this water 
ane one-half amount of svigar, make a sjTup and pour over 
fruit while hot. Seal. 

Note. — Prepare and cook enough for one jar at a time. 

135 



STUFFED PEACHES 

Select choice, large fruit. Prepare, cook and make ayrup 
as above. After removing from water, fill centers with can- 
died ginger, pineapple, cherries, raisins, etc., and nuts chopped 
fine. Tie halves together with coarse thread. Place in hot 
sterilized jars, pour hot syrup over peaches, filling jar. Place 
lid on jar, do not seal tight at first. Put jars in very slightly 
heated oven with oven door partly open. Leave for 1 hour. 
Remove and seal. 

CANNED YELLOW RASPBERRIES 

Make a rich syrup and keep hot. Select perfect berries, 
wash and stem. Place in sterilized jars, pour hot syrup 
over berries, filling jar. Place lid on jar, do not seal tight 
at first. Put jars in very slightly heated oven with oven 
door partly open. Leave for 2 or 3 hours. Remove and seal. 

Red raspberries and grapes may be canned in same way. 

'(Mrs. S. A. Pickering) 

CHERRIES FOR PIE 

Seed by hand and carefully prepare sour red cherries, 
in proportion of % fruit to J4 sugar. Let both simmer un- 
til they boil, then cook rapidly for about ten minutes. Put 
in sterilized jars and seal. 

ADDITION OF SALT TO PEACHES AND PLUMS 

The addition of salt to peaclies and plum preserves gives 
a richness of flavor that the fruit seems to lack when pre- 
served. 

TO TEST FRUIT FOR PECTIN 

Some fruits are lacking in pectin, the component which 
is necessary to make them "jell." To test fruit juices for 
the necessary amount of pectin, add a small amount of a 
15 per cent solution of grain alcohol to an equal amount of 
the fruit juice. If mixture remains clear, it will not "jell," 
but if it becomes murky when cooled, it has sufficient pectin. 
Fruits that lack it, very often are supplied with a sufficient 
amount of pectin by adding a medium sliced carrot to every 
quart of juice. The carrots do not affect the taste. 

(Mrs. D. M. Buck) 



136 



Canned Vegetables 

RECIPE FOR PUTTING UP CORN 

Cut corn from cob 2 cups of water 

9 cups of corn Cup of salt 
2 cups of sugar 

Put all in kettle on the fire. After it comes to boiling 
point, cook five minutes, stirring often. 

I^'ill the jars at once while hot. 

Before cooking for eating, wash the corn well in cold 
water. Let it soak in cold water three hours. Changing the 
water. Just before serving jnit on fire, let come to boiling 
point. Drain off water, dress with a little cream and butter. 
(No salt). 

PUTTING UP CORN 

10 cups corn 1 cup sugar 
1 cup sail 

Mix sugar and salt with the corn and ;)lace on back 
of stove until enough milk or juice is drawn to cook it. 
Then place on front of stove. Cook for 12 minutes after 
it has begun to boil. Then pack tight in jars which are 
sterilized. Screw lids tight after testing the rubber. 

W'hen ready to use boil off with one or two waters until 
just salt enough to suit taste. 

(Mrs. William Watson Smith) 

CANNED CORN 

10 cups corn 1 generous cup sugar 

1/ cup water 1 .-^cant cup of salt 

Let stand on low flame until heated, and draw water, 
then put over higher flame and boil ten minutes. Put in air 
tight jars. Before using soak 3 or 4 hours and dress with 
a cream sauce. 

(Mrs. H. A. Ross) 

CANNED GREEN PEPPERS 

Prepare by removing seeds. Cut in strips or leave wdiole. 
Blanch by dipping in hot water for 2 or 3 minutes, then 
immediately into cold water. Pack in jars — fill jar with boil- 
ing water, add a level teaspoon salt. 'Sterilize 90 minutes. 

(Mrs. Thos. J. Gillespie) 



Buy empty flour sacks by the dozen from your grocer, 
to use for dish towels. 



£38 



CANNED EGG PLANT 

Pare and cut in round slices egg plant. Place in cheese 
clotli and dip in boiling water for 2 or 3 minutes, then place 
immediately in cold water. Pack in jar, fill jar with boil- 
ing water, add 1 teaspoon salt. Place in steamer, steam for 
30 minutes. 

DRIED EGG PLANT 

Pare and cut the egg plant into slices about a quarter of 
an inch thick, lay over platters and place in a moderate oven 
until dry; keep in covered vessels. 

To Cook 

Soak in water for about 2 hours, then parboil 10 minutes 
with a little baking soda in the water, dry it with a towel, 
dip in eggs and in bread or cracker crumbs and fry. 

(Mrs. W. Seward B. Hays) 



139 



Putting up Vegetables 

THE SUCCESS LIES IN SANITARY PRECAUTIONS AND 
THOROUGH STERILIZING 

JARS 

Use Atlas or Ball Mason Jars. These should be in per- 
fect condition, no nicks around mouth, an even thread at 
neck, so that lid can screw perfectly tight. 

INSPECTION 

Should be thorough, and imperfect jars discarded. Many 
are rough around edge at opening; file, off parts extending 
over edge, which might prevent lid from screwing tight. 

WASHING 

Thoroughly cleanse by making a very hot soapy water. 
Put a little water in each jar, with a small amount of bak- 
ing soda to sweeten. Wash in the suds, rinse several times 
in clear hot water. Fill jar with clear cold water, place in 
boiler. Then fill boiler with cold water to half the depth of 
jar. When it starts to boil let it continue until jars are thor- 
oughly sterilized, about twenty minutes to a half hour. Turn 
out the fire, leaving jars in boiler until ready to use them. 
Take out a jar at a time to fill. 

WATER 

Distilled or boiled water should be used for cooking. 

TO BOIL OR STERILIZE WATER 

Place in clean vessel necessary amount of cold water. 
Let boil a few minutes; after which remove from the stove, 
cover, and let get cold. 

RUBBER BANDS 

Use thick white bands. These should be dipped in hot 
water and dried as used. 

LIDS 

Should be perfect, in most cases, new. Cleanse by wash- 
ing, same as jars. Place on stove in vessel of cold water, 
let boil, take from boiling water as used. Shake lids in order 
to get all the water out. Do not dry. 

140 



PREPARING VEGETABLES 

Beans, peas and carrots should be prepared as for the table. 

Beets should be pared like potatoes. If small, leave 
whole; if large, cut in two or four pieces. 

Corn should be cut oiT the ear. 

Tomatoes: Scald, remove skin, and quarter. 

String beans should not be cut. Snap or break. Very 
young beans can be put up whole. 

Beans too old to be tender left on the vine until ready 
to shell, should be put up like peas or lima beans. So pre- 
pared they are delicious and afford a good substitute for pota- 
toes. 

CORN 

Cut from cob. Take jar from l)oiling water, empty, put 
into it two tablespoons of corn. Take a large cob from 
which corn has been cut, press corn in jar with this until 
milk comes out. Keep putting in the corn and pressing it 
down in this manner until the jar is full, at which time the 
corn will be covered with its own milk. Place rubber band and 
lid on jar, put in boiler and steam the same as other vege- 
tables. Corn will sometimes steam out around the lid; -but 
this does no harm, it can be washed off after lid is screwed 
tight, just before applying sealing wax. 

TOMATOES 

Prepare, cook on top of stove from one to two hours, 
according to amount; after they have cooked some time, sea- 
son well with salt. Cook the water out. This makes them 
quite strong, but water can be added before using. 

PUTTING VEGETABLES IN JARS 

When prepared, wash thoroughly in two or three waters. 
Take jars from boiler one at a time, as required. Empty 
the water, and fill immediately with the thoroughly waslied 
vegetables. Put in the salt, then fill the jar with distilled 
oi: sterilized water, place rubber band on jar, then the lid. 
Do not screw too tight — just enough to keep in the steam 
when boiling. 

When all jars are removed from boiler, empty any water 
which may be left. Place filled jars back in boiler and fill it 
with cold water, within one inch of the rubber band. Put 
lid on boiler and steam the required time with just enough 
fire to keep an even boiling point. Time is counted from 
the moment the water in boiler begins to boil, not from 
the time it was put on the stove. When finished, turn out 
the fire, remove lid from boiler to let out the steam and 
screw lids as tight as possible while jars are still in the 
boiler. Lift out one at a time with perfectly sterile tea 
towels, place on table, screw lids still tighter. When all 
jars are removed from the boiler go over them again and 



again and make sure lids are tight.. Keep rubber band, which 
tiie heat has probably softened, well under lid all around so 
that it does not slip out, while the lid is being screwed. 
When lids are tight paste with red sealing wax as a further 
safeguard. 

"GOVERNMENT SUGGESTION" 

To retain natural color blanching ma<y be added to the 
process for putting up vegetables. 

To blanch: After vegetables are prepared and thoroughly 
washed, place in .cheese cloth. Dip into boiling water for 
2 or 3 minutes, then in ice cold water, after which place im- 
mediately into hot sterilized jar. 

Refer to "Putting Vegetables in Jar." 

SEALING WAX 

Place in a can red sealing wax, let melt and apply to 
jar while both are hot. Use an old casement knife for put- 
ting on the wax. Seal all around lid. covering both edges 
of the rubber band and the lid. 

BOILER 

Regular wash boiler, — new one used only for the pur- 
pose. Select one with a tight-fitting lid so as to keep in 
the steam. Have a wooden rack (slat or lattice) made to 
fit bottom of boiler.. In this way one can steam from twelve 
to sixteen jars at a time. It is preferable for this reason to 
the regular steamer. 

PUTTING JARS IN BOILER 

Place upon rack in boiler so that theiy do not touch each 
other. Otherwise they are likely to crack. 

LENGTH OF TIME FOR STEAMING 

*Peas, 2 to 2J^ hours 
*Lima Beans, 2^ to 3 hours 
^String beans, 3 hours 
*Shelled Beans, 3 hours 
**Carrots, 2^^ to 3 hours 
**Beets, 3 hours 
**rorn, 21/ to 3 hours 

*^4 teaspoonful of salt to pint jar 
**No salt 

142 



IMPORTANT 

When jars are filled and sealed, do not turn upside down 
or tip in the least. As far as possible keep contents from 
coming?' in contact with lid during process of applying sealing 
wax. marking, etc. 

When finished, wrap jars in paper, still keeping them up- 
right. Put away in cool, dark place. 

Please note that vegetables put up in this way are kept 
pure. No acids or foreign substances l)eing used, excejjt the 
salt, which is only used in those mentioned. 

These recipes have been successfully tried for several 
years with gratifying results. The writer does not hesitate 
to recommend them if followed to the letter. 

(Mrs. S. A. Pickering) 

DRIED CORN 

Cook on cob as for table. Cut from cob, spread rather thin 
on pie, biscuit or cake pans, set in oven which has been 
previously used and is still hot, but with no fire. It can also 
be placed on any part of the range where it will dry but not 
cook. Stir occasionally so that it will dry thoroughly. When 
perfectly dry place in clean muslin bag. Corn which has been 
boiled for the table can be utilized in this way. 

HOW TO COOK DRIED CORN 

Soak 1 cup of corn over night. i'lace in double boiler, 
cover with water, cook about 4 hours, season to taste. 

Corn soup is made in same manner by adding water, milk 
or cream. If made without milk or cream, season and thicken 
to taste. Serve with whipped cream and a sprinkling of pop 
corn. 

A corn 'pudding may be made with the corn after soup 
is strained off. 

Fruits may be dried in like manner, omitting cooking. 



143 



Relishes and Pickles 



CHOW CHOW 

2 qts. celery stalks cut up 2 heads cauliflower broken in 

2 qts. cucumbers cut fine small pieces 

2 qts. small white onions 10 red peppers, take out seeds 

2 qts. small pickles cut up and cut in fine pieces 

Put all above in following brine: 
2 cups salt 2 gals, water 

Let stand 24 hours. Scald thoroughly in same brine and 
drain. 

Dressing 

2 tablespoons Coleman mustard 2 cups flour 

2 tabjespoon^'' tumerit powder 8 cups brown sugar 

Mix with 3 quarts vinegar and scald until smooth. Add 
the pickle to dressing, red pepper and mustard seed. Seal while 
hot. 

CORN SAUCE 

1 doz. ears corn 5c worth celery seed 

2 small heads cabbage 5c worth tumeric powder 
2 cups sugar 5c worth mustard seed 

5 red peppers Yi gal wine vinegar 

2 large bunches celery 

Salt to taste. Cook until done. 

(Mrs. E. V. Babcock) 



SPANISH PICKLE 

2 doz. large cucumber pickles 3 small heads of cabbage 

(just yellow). Scrape out 8 large onions 

seeds 9 red peppers 
^ pk. green tomatoes 

Chop all fine. Put in split basket over night to drain, 
sprinkling with salt. In the morning, put in an iron pot and 
add: 

3 oz. mustard seed 1^4 oz. tumeric 

IV2 oz. celery seed Yi lb. mustard (Coleman) 

3 lbs. brown sugar 

Cover thoroughly with vinegar and let cook 4 or 5 hours. 

144 



SPICED PICKLE 

5 large sour pickles cut in Vi- 2 cups sugar 

inch slices 1 teaspoon whole cloves 

Place in glass jar and shake once a day for a week before 
ready for use. (Miss Helen Barclay) 

CUCUMBER SAUCE 

1 doz. large cucumbers 1 oz. ground mustard 
14 pk. onions 1 doz. red peppers 

2 oz. mustard seed 1 tablespoon celery seed 

Chop the cucumbers and onions fine. Put (alternately) a 
laiyer of cucumbers and 1 of onions, salting each. Drain over 
night with heavy weight to press out the water. In the morn- 
ing scald in good vinegar, enough to cover them. Add the 
red peppers chopped fine, mustard, etc., stirring thoroughly, 
and then add the following sauce: 

4 ego's 1 tablespoon mustard 
^ cup butter Pinch of red pepper 

Yi cuo sugar 1 cup cream 

'^k tablespoon salt 

Cream, butter. sug,ar and condiments. Then add 4 eggs, 
1 at a time. Lastly add 1 cup of cream. Have Va pints of 
vinegar. Stir all into it, allo^ving all to come just to the boiling 
point, then stir this into the hot cucumbers. It is then ready 
to put into jars. 

Do not pare the cucumbers. 

(Mrs. H. C. Torrance) 

SLICED CUCUMBER PICKLE 

SO small cucumbers 1 cup mustard seed 

% lb. small onions 2 tablespoons tumeric 

12 small red peppers sliced long 1 gallon cider vinegar 

6 tablespoons mustard Vt. pound brown sugar 
4 tablespoons flour 

Slice cucumbers and put in salt over night. Drain in 
morning. Boil dressing. Put in cucumbers, onions and peppers 
and boil until cucumbers are clear. 

COLD TOMATO CATSUP 

Vz peck ripe tomatoes (scald) 1 cup sugar 

and remove skins, draining 1 cup of mustard seeds 

water through a colander. 1 small cup salt 

3 roots of horse-radish grated 1 tablespoon of black pepper 
6 stalks of celery cut fine 1 tablespoon mace 

1 cup of onions cut fine 1 tablespon cloves 

4 or 6 red sweet peppers seed- 3 pts. of vinegar. If too thm 

ed and cut fine do not use all of vinegar 

Seal in air tiglit jars. Ready for use in a few weeks. 

(Mrs. II. A. Ross) 
I4S 



TOMATO CATSUP 

3 gal. tomatoes, skinned 1 small half-cup salt 

1 doz. onions 2 tablespoons allspice 

1% gal. vinegar 35^ cups brown sugar or more 

1 tablespoon cayenne pepper to taste 

1 small half-cup mustard 

Boil tomatoes and onions together until smooth and strain 
through a sieve. Then boil strained tomatoes and vinegar until 
thick enough to serve on meats. Add sugar and spices to taste, 
bottle and seal. This will keep for several years. 

(Mrs. Joseph H. Moore) 



PEPPER HASH 

1 doz. green peppers 3 tablespoons salt 

1 doz. red peppers 2 pints vinegar 

1 doz. medium onions 2 cups sugar 

Chop peppers and onions tine or put through meat chop- 
per. Cover with boiling water, let stand 10 minutes, drain, 
cover again, let come to boil, let stand 10 minutes, drain dry. 
Then add other ingredients. Cook 15 minutes and pack in 
small jars. (Mrs. W. L. Davis) 



CHOPPED PICKLE 

% pk. green tomatoes chopped 1 doz. large cucumbers, chopp- 
fine ed fme 

1 medium head cabbage chopp- 10 large onions, chopped line 

ed fine 

Put in stone jar together with 1 large cup of salt. Cover 
Vi^ith equal parts vinegar and water. Let stand over night, 
then drain all liquid and put back in jar. Then add: 

10 large sweet peppers (chopped 4 oz. mustard seed 
seeds and all) 4 oz. celery seed 

2 lb. granulated sugar 

Cover with good cider vinegar. It is ready for use the 
next day. (Mrs. James P. Silliman) 



HOME MADE VINEGAR 

3 gal. water 2 cakes yeast 

3 lbs. brown sugar 3 pieces toast 

Heat 1 gallon of water and sugar together until sugar is 
dissolved, then add the remaining 2 gallons of water and cool. 
Take the 3 pieces of toast and spread the yeast over them, 
then put the toast in the mixture and set away for 6 weeks, 
then use. Particularly good for salads. 

146 



CHILI SAUCE 

V2 pk. tomatoes yj teaspoon mace 

^ large onions ^2 teaspoon cinnamon 

4 large sweet peppers V2 teaspoon allspice 

3 cups sugar ,''2 teaspoon red pepper 

4 cups vinegar 2 tablespoons salt 
H teaspoon cloves 

Scald tomatoes, skin and quarter. Grind onions and pep- 
pers. Boil tomatoes, onions, peppers, sugar, salt and vinegar 
for 1 hour. Add spices and boil 1 hour or more until water 
does not collect around edges. 

(Airs. H. A. Ross) 



MIXED PICKLES IN MUSTARD DRESSING 

6 qts. cucumber, small ones, 1 qt. string beans 

whole large, large ones, cut 1 qt. carrots cut in halves, 
in dice quarters and dice 

6 qts. cauliHovver cut in good 5 large red peppers 
sized pieces 5 green peppers 

1 qt. lima beans A few nasturtium seeds 

1 qt. small onions 

A tiny ear or corn or any desired vegetable may be added. 

Prepare vegetables with care, separately. Put each in salt 
water over night. Drain and rinse in cold water. Scald the 
cucumbers in Vs vinegar and % water, to which has been added 
1/4 teaspoon powdered alum or a small piece of alum. The 
other vegetables should be cooked separately in weakened vine- 
gar until easily pierced with a fork. They must not be too 
soft. 



Mustard Dressing 

2 cups sugar 1 cup tlour 

2 tablespoons salt 1 qt. water 

2V^ cups Coleman's mustard 2 oz. whole mixed spices 

5 qts. vinegar tumeric . 

Mix sugar, salt and mustard into smooth paste with a 
little vinegar. Strain mixture through sieve into the cold vine- 
gar. Stir on top of stove until it boils. Mix flour and water 
very smooth. Stir into the vinegar mixture till consistency 
of heavy cream, add tumeric until a golden color. 

Put all the drained vegetables into a large vessel. Add 
spices. Pour mustard dressing over them. Set on stove and 
heat. Keep off bottom of vessel, but do not mash the vege- 
tables. Put in hot jars and seal. 

Pickles of cauliflower may be put up in like manner. 

(Mrs. Edwin D. Witt .Adams) 

147 



SLICED CUCUMBERS 

1 cup olive oil 1 tablespoon celery seed 

^ cup mustard seed 1 tablespoon whole pepper 

Select medium sized solid cucumbers. Pare and slice thin. 
Sprinkle with salt, let stand over night, then drain and put in 
sterilized jars. Cover them with strong cold cider vinegar, 
leaving a little space in jar to be filled with above mixture. 
Place 1 tablespoon ^of mixture in each jar. This serves as a 
seal as well as a dressing. Serve with fish. 

Use perfectly fresh cucumbers. 

(Mrs. S. A. Pickering) 

PICKLED ONIONS 

Prepare small white onions. Place in bowl, sprinkle a 
little salt over each layer of onion. Add a small amount of 
water, let stand over night. Drain, wash off with cold water. 
Cook in weakened vinegar to which has been added a lump of 
alum the size of a pea. Lift out with strainer and put into 
jars. Place 2 small red peppers in each jar, pour over all hot 
strong white vinegar spiced with ginger, mustard seed, etc. 
Use only whole white spices. 

COLD CUCUMBER PICKLES 

1 gallon of vinegar 1 cup salt 

1 cup sugar (brown is best) 1 cup Coleman's mustard 

Wash cucumbers in cold water, pack in jars. Spices may 

be added and fresh Dill if desired. Mix dry ingredients 

and vinegar together until smooth and pour over cucumbers. 

Keeps indefinitely. (Mrs. W. L. Davis) 



148 



Miscellaneous 



SUET (Rendered for Frying) 

3 lbs. kidney suet 2 cups boiling water 

Cut suet into small pieces, put in large frying pan, add 
water. Cover and let boil slowly until it stops bubbling and 
begins to smoke, then place over a very slow fire for about 
15 minutes. Strain in a kettle through several thicknesses of 
cheese cloth, stand away until wanted for use. This is better 
than lard for all deep frying as well as sauteing. 

(Mrs. D. L. Gillespie) 

BUTTER 

1 pt. milk 1 lb. of diced butter 

Place in churn, put on the top and let stand in luke warm 
water 5 minutes or until mixture feels slightly warm to the 
liand. Remove churn from the water and churn about 3 
minutes. This makes 2 pounds of sweet butter. 

If you i)refer, salt maiv be added. 

(Mrs. W. C. Carroll) 

PACKING BUTTER FOR WINTER USE 

Buy best creamery butter in early September. Knead 
about a pound or two at a time as you would bread in a 
wooden bowl, pouring water off as it is workt^d out. After 
all has been taken out pack a pound or pound and a half as 
you wish, in old muslin cloths about 12 inches square, put- 
ting butter in center, turning up opposite corners, being care- 
ful that butter is well covered. After all has been packed in 
cloths, make a salt brine strong enough to float an egg, of 
table salt and ice water. Then put an old plate on bottom of 
stone crock. Pack your squares of butter. Then a olate on 
top with a heavy stone on it. Then pour the salt brine over 
all and keep in cool place, well covered. Change br-ne every 
four weeks. (Mrs. H. A. Ross) 

PACKING EGGS FOR WINTER USE— No. 1 

^ pt. coarse salt ^' qts. of sterilized water 

V2 fresh slacked lime 

Mix the ingredients the day before, stirring occasionally 
so that the lime and salt are dissolved. Place a plate, bottom 
side up, on bottom of an 8 gallon stone crock and drop eggs 
as you wish, or all at a time, keeping well covered. This will 
take care of 15 dozens. 

No. 2 

One quart of silicate of soda or water glass, nine quarts 
of sterilized water. 

Mix and stir thoroughly before dropping eggs in crock, 
point down. Keep well covered. This will take care ol 15 
dozens in an 8 gallon crock. Any egg floating on top shoul 1 
be taken out as it is not absolutely fresh, and w 11 not kee;^. 

130 



BAKING POWDER 

1 lb. corn starch 1 lb. soda 

1 lb. cream of tartar 

Sift 25 times throu.t;!! Hour sifter. Kcej; air tij^ht. 

(Mrs. C. I. McKee) 

SILVER CLEANER 

L'se an enameled or granite pan with inner surface with- 
out a flaw exposing the metal, and of a size suitable for the 
silver to be cleaned in it. 

Have a. piece of pure zinc large enough to cover, or nearly 
cover, the bottom of the pan. To every 4 quarts of clear water 
add 3 tablespoons each of salt and of baking soda. 

Let this solution become hot and then lay in the silver, 
allowing it to remain about 10 minutes. Take out, rinse in 
clear water, and wipe with a soft towel. 

If the water is not deep enough to cover tlie large pieces 
they can be laid on one side for a few minutes, and then 
the other side submerged. 

(Mrs. n. C. Xewcomer) 

BRASS POLISH 

5c worth tripoli 1 qt. cold water 

5c worth oxalic acid 

Place in a quart bottle and shake. Apply witli flannel cloth. 

WHITE SOAP— No. 1 

Put 5 pounds of fat into large kettle with a gallon of 
water. Heat until grease is entirely melted. Set aside until 
cold, when grease will be hard. Take the grease cake from 
top of water, scrape ofi any brown particles, place into kettle 
to melt. Into a granite pan put 3 cups of cold water and stir 
into this 1 can Red Seal or Babbitt's Lye. Stir with wooden 
spoon until dissolved. Remove grease from fire and pour 
slowl}^ into the lye water, stirring constantly. Add 2 table- 
spoons ammonia and 2 tablespoons powdered borax. Stir mix- 
ture constantly until it begins to set about as thick as honey. 
Pour into pan lined with several thicknesses of wet paper. 
Cut into cakes when hard enough. 

This makes 12 cakes. Keep for a month or longer before 
using. 

WHITE SOAP— No. 2 

5 lbs. clarified fat Wz teaspoon borax 

1 'A qts. cold water ^ cu]) ammonia 

1 can lye 



TOILET SOAP 

1 lb. cottonseed oil 10 drops lavender and oil of 

y^ lb. white lard geranium 

10 teaspoons lye 

Melt lard in oil, add lye, and when cool, add the scent. 
Stir constantly to make soap smooth. 

MAKE SOAP OF FAT UNFIT FOR COOKING 

Use lye made by letting water drip slowly through wood 
ashes, or buy lye in cans. Use porcelain or enamel dish. 
Dissolve 1 can lye in 1 quart cold water. Melt 5 pounds fat 
in separate dish. Strain through 2 thicknesses of cheese cloth. 
Cool till luke warm. Add dissolved, cooled lye. Stir until 
mixture is like porrjdge. Pour quickly into shallow pasteboard 
boxes or dripping pan. When cool, crease into cakes. Cut 
when nearly cold. 

DON'T WASTE ANY SOAP 

Save pieces of soap too small to handle, melt them in a 
little wrater over a slow fire, use in washing dishes or boiling 
clothes. 



Put all bits of soap into a cheese cloth bag. It can 
be used like a cake of soap. 



HOUSEHOLD HINTS 

A little salt rubbed on the cups vvnll take out tea stains. 

When fish are fresh the skin and scales will be bright, the 
eyes full and clear, the fins stiflf, and the body firm. 

When making juicy fruit or berry pies, insert in the top 
crust a small funnel of paper, or a piece of macaroni, which 
allows the steam to escape and prevents the juice boiling over. 

Berry and fruit stains can be removed easily by holding 
the cloth tightly over the top of a bowl and pouring boiling 
water very slowly through the stains. Remove grease stains 
by saturating the spots with alcohol rather than benzine. Alco- 
hol does not leave a ring aroinid the spot when dry. Wash with 
cold water. 

To remove ink stains from the fingers moisten them with 
warm water, then rub the sulphur end of a match well over the 
stains and they will disappear. 

White spots on a 'varnished surface will disappear if a hot 
flat iron is held over them for a second. 

To clean wire screens dampen a cotton cloth with kerosene 
and rub on both sides. They will look like new and it also 
helps to keep the flies away. 

If you wish to keep your desserts right on the ice, place a 
newspaper over the ice, and the dishes will not slip off or tip 
over. 

Lemons that have become hard from long standing can be 
made usable by covering them with boiling water for a few 
minutes. 

Heat a lemon thoroughly before squeezing it and you will 
secure nearly double the quantity of juice that you would if 
it were not heated. 

Apples will not turn black when pared if dropped into water 
to which has been added a few drops of lemon juice. 

Remember when putting meat in the ice chest not to place 
it against the ice. as ice draws the flavor from meat. 

A few drops of lemon juice or vinegar added to the water in 
which cauliflower is to be cooked will greatly preserve its 
whiteness. 

To hasten the baking of potatoes let them stand a few 
minutes in warm water after washing them. 

If by mistake you get the soup too salty add a few slices 
of raw potatoes and cook a few minutes. The potatoes will 
take up much of the surplus salt. Small pieces of toasted bread 
will also have the same efifect. 

A few drops of lemon juice makes cake frosting white, 
and a little fiour put over the top of a cake will prevent the 
icing from running. 

Meringue should be browned in a slow oven, otherwise it 
will fall when exposed to the air. 

When frying chickens or fish, to avoid the grease spattering, 
sift in a tiny lot of flour just before putting them in. 

A bit of sugar dissolved in the water in which cut flowers 
are kept is an English way of keeping the blossoms fresh. 

153 



RULES FOR SUBSTITUTION 

The Food Administration of Allegheny County suggests 
the following general rules for use by those persons who wish 
to adapt the standard recipes to war time conditions by substi- 
tuting for the food elements which are desired for export the 
substitutes recommended by the Fo'od Administration. These 
substitutes fall in three general classes. 

(1) Corn syrup, molasses or soft sugars instead of granulated 
sugar. 

(2) Vegetable fats instead of butter or lard. 

(3) Cereal substitute flours and meals instead of wheat fiour. 

(1) In su'bstituting for granulated sugar in standard 
recipes, corn syrup may be substituted for one-half of the granu- 
lated sugar by measure, reducing the other liquids in the recipe 
by 14 to ^2 of the amount of corn syrup usee'. If syrup is used 
to furnish all the sweetening, it makes an undesirably heavy 
product. Raisins, citron and other fruits can be used to fur- 
nish a portion of the sweetness. In using molasses and maple 
syrup, follow the same rule. 

Soft light brown sugars may of course be used in the 
place of the granulated sugar in equal measure, making a slight 
allowance for the small liquid content in the soft sugars. 

(2) Vegetable fats may be substituted for butter in biscuits 
and muffins in the proportion of one to two tablespoons of 
vegetable oil or hardened vegetable fats for each 34 cup of 
butter. In substituting for lard, use an equal quantity of 
vegetable oil or hardened vegetable fats. 

(3) With some care and thought the various flour and 
cereal substitutes may be substituted for a large portion of the 
flour in the standard recipes. (Instead of endeavoring to change 
bread recipes, tested bread recipes containing the proper mix- 
tures should be secured. A higher percentage of the substitutes 
can properly be used in "Quick Breads," . particularly where 
eggs are used. In baking, the gluten in wheat hardens and 
makes the mass porous. To a certain extent, eggs in "Quick 
Breads," where substitutes are used for wheat, accomplish the 
same object.) 

Substitute cereal flours and meals may be substituted suc- 
cessfully, pound for pound, for most of the wheat flour in "Quick 
Bread" recipes, such as muffins, biscuits, griddle cakes, wafiiles, 
etc. As the housewife does not make her recipes by weight, 
however, but by measure, it is necessary to indicate the amount 
by measure of the cereal flours and meals which should be used. 
The following is an illustration of the proper proportion of 
substitution in a standard recipe calling for two cups of wheat 
flour. 

154 



INSTEAD OF TWO (2) CUPS OF WHEAT FLOUR USE 

(1) Barley muffins — V2 cup wheat flour, 214 cups barley flour. 

(2) Buckwheat muffins — J/2 cup wheat flour, 1% cups buck- 
wheat flour. 

(3) Corn muffins — V2 cup wheat flour, 1]/^ cups corn flour. 

(4) Cornmeal muffins — J/2 cup wheat flour, !}/> cups cornmeal 
(fine) 

Cornmeal muffins — V2 cup wheat flour. Wa cups corn- 
meal (coarse) 

(5) Rice muffins — ^ cup wheat flour, 1% cups rice meal 
(coarse ) 

The important thing is to observe the varying proportions 
of the different flours and meals. 

Xote that the amount of wheat flour plus the amount of 
substitute flour does not always equal the two cups of wheat 
flour in the Standard recipe on account of the varying weights 
■per cup of the suggested substitutes. 

If it is desired to use cooked cereals in making muffins, 
griddle cakes or waffles, it would be best to follow the recipes 
in anj- standard cook book with the proper substitution sug- 
gested above for butter and sugar. 

UNITED STATES FOOD ADMINISTRATION 

for Allegheny County. 



155 



WEIGHTS AND MEASURES 

16 drams 1 ounce 

16 ounces 1 pound 

1 teaspoon 60 drops 

3 teaspoons 1 tablespoon 

4 tablespoons. ..1 wine glass, Yi gill or 14 cup 

4 salt spoons 1 teaspoon 

16 tablespoons 1 cup 

2 gills 1 cup 

2 cups 1 pint 

2 pints 1 quart 

4 quarts 1 gallon 

2 tablespoons Crisco 1 ounce 

1 tablespoon butter 1 ounce 

2 tablespoons salt 1 ounce 

4 tables])oons pepper 1 ounce 

2 tablespoons sugar 1 ounce 

4 tablespoons flour 1 ounce 

2 tablespoons liquid 1 ounce 

1 square chocolate 1 ounce 

3 tablespoons grated chocolate 1 ounce 

% cup chopped nuts (blanched) 1 ounce 

1 cup currants ^ pound 

1 cup crumbs J4 pound 

4% cups coffee 1 pound 

2>y2 cups confectioners' sugar 1 pound 

4V^ cups graham flour 1 pound 

2 'k cups oatmeal 1 pound 

5 cups rolled oats 1 pound 

4% cups rye meal 1 pound 

1% cups rice 1 pound 

2% cups dry beans 1 pound 

2 cups granulated sugar 1 pound 

2 "'k cups brown sugar 1 pound 

2% cups powdered sugar 1 pound 

1 cup (volume) 8 ounces 

1 cup water 8% ounces 

1 pint butter 1 pound 

1 quart flour 1 pound 

9 medium or 10 small eggs 1 pound 

4% teaspoons cinnamon ' 1 ounce 

4 tablespoons cloves 1 ounce 

4 tablespoons mace 1 ounce 

4 tablespoons mustard 1 ounce 

2 tablespoons olive oil 1 ounce 

^ cup chopped suet 1 ounce 

TABLE OF PROPORTIONS 
cup liquid to 3 cups flour for bread 
cup liquid to 2 cups flour for muffins 
cup liquid to 1 cup flour for batters 
teaspoon soda to 1 pint sour milk 
teaspoon soda to 1 cup molasses 
14 teaspoon salt to 4 cups custard 
J teaspoons salt to 4 cups water 
Yi, teaspoon salt to 1 cup white sauce 
Vs teaspoon pepper to 1 cup white sauce 

! heaping teaspoons baking powder to 1 quart flour 
156 



I n dex 



ACCESSORIES FOR SALADS 

Page 

Cheese Balls 71 

Cheese Rolls 71 

Cheese Wafers 71 

Cornmeal Crisp (Salad Wafers) 71 

Corn Sticks ■ • • • 71 

BEVERAGES 

Egg Nog j30 

Ginger Punch j;?"^ 

Ginger Ale Punch \f/^ 

Hot Chocolate J^'J 

Iced Chocolate J:^^ 

Mulled Claret ]'^^ 

Mulled Cider ]f!^ 

Wartime-Ade ^■^^ 

BREADS 

Barley Bread ]| 

Patter Bread |^ 

Berkshire Muffins |^ 

Bird's Nest ;° 

Blueberry Muffins ^^ 

Boston Brown Bread J-^ 

Boston Brown Bread Without Milk |-^ 

Boston Brown Bread |^ 

Bran Bread (One Loaf) |^ 

Bran and Graham Muffins |^ 

Bran Gems |q 

Bran Muffins without Eggs |^ 

Buttermilk Brown Bread '^ 

Buckwheat Buns * |° 

Buckwheat Muffins |° 

Corn Bread without Milk j 

Corn Bread with Milk and Eggs j| 

Corn Bread with Milk and Egg V. 

Corn Dodgers ^1^ 

Corn and Flour Bread j^ 

Corn Muffins y 

Crackling Corn Bread |'^ 

"Educator" Bran Muffins }'. 

Graham Gems with Sour or Butter Milk !<' 

Graham Muffins with Sweet Milk |o 

Graham Muffins ^" 

Hominy Bread (With Wheat Flour and Potatoes (Three 

Loaves) (From the Club Messenger) 14 

Hot Cross Buns 20 

Muffins 21 

157 



Nut Bread 15 

Nut and Raisin Bread 15 

C'atmeal Bread 12 

Oatmeal Bread 13 

Parker House Rolls 20 

Peanut Butter Bread or Muffins 17 

Plain Muffins 20 

Potato Bread 16 

Prune Bread 15 

Rice Bread (One Loaf) 16 

Rice Cakes 20 

Rice Muffins 21 

Rice Flour Muffins 21 

Rye Bread (One Loaf) 17 

Spider Bread 15 

Spoon Bread 11 

Spoon Corn Bread 12 

War Bread 12 

CAKES 

Angel Cake ' 87 

Angel Food 87 

Barley Sponge Cake 88 

Brownies 93 

Chocolate Cake 92 

Chocolate Fruit Cookies 90 

Chocolate Molasses Cake 86 

Cream Scones 91 

Date Tea Cake 85 

Doughnuts 97 

Drop Cakes — Baked in Gem Pans ^_. 94 

Drop Sponges .- 91 

Drop Graham Cakes 95 

French Army Cakes (as made in France) 84 

Fruit Cake 91 

Ginger Snaps 94 

Gold Cake, to Use 8 Yolks Left Over from Angel Cake.. 87 

Hermits 94 

Honey Hermits 93 

Honey Plum Cake 92 

Inexpensive Cookies 90 

Inexpensive Chocolate Cake 86 

Jolly Boys 91 

Lace Cake 96 

Layer Cake to Fill with Whipped Cream or a Custard Filling 

or Jelly 92 

Lilly Cake 87 

Maple Jumbles 97 

Marguerites 98 

Mother's Black Fruit Cake 88 

Mt. Hickory One-Egg Cake 87 

New England Cookies 89 

No Egg Molasses Ginger Bread 89 

Novelty Cake 92 

Nut Cake 85 

Nut Cakes (Thin) 97 

158 



Nutlets 96 

Oatmeal Cookies with Graham Flour 95 

Oatmeal Cookies with Sour Milk 95 

Oatmeal Macaroons with Corn Syrup 96 

Peanut Cookies 94 

Pin Wheels 89 

Potato Caramel Cake 86 

Potato Cornmeal Cakes 95 

"Prmce of Wales Cake" 85 

Ross Lunch Cake — War Cake 84 

Soft Ginger Bread 89 

Sour Cream Gingerbread 89 

Spice Drop Cakes — Baked in Gem Pans 93 

Sponge Cake 88 

.Sponge Cake. To Make More Delicious 88 

Sponge W'afers 90 

Sugar Cookies 90 

Swedish Sponge Cake 88 

Tea Cake 84 

Taylor Cakes 95 

War Chocolate Layer Cake 85 

War Time Macaroons with Cocoanut 96 

White Layer Cake — Two Thick Layers 86 

White Loaf Cake — Bake in Tube Pan 86 



CAKE ICING 

Caramel Icing 100 

Honey Icing 100 

Maple Icing 101 

Nut Caramel Icing 100 

White Icing 100 



CANNED VEGETABLES 

Canned Corn .' 138 

Canned Egg Plant 139 

Canned Green Peppers 138 

Dried Egg Plant 139 

Putting up Corn 138 

Recipe for Putting up Corri 138 



CHEESE 

Bread and Cheese '62 

Baked Hominy and Cheese 62 

Baked Rice Au Gratin 62 

Cheese SoufTle 61 

Cheese on Toast 62 

Creole Macaroni 61 

English Monkey 62 

Macaroni, Cheese and Tomato 61 

Onions on Toast 61 

War French Fried Potatoes 61 



DESSERTS 

Angel Pudding 1 10 

Apple Custard 114 

Apple Dumplings 117 

Apple Sauce (Made with Pineapple Syrup) 106 

Apple Popovers 119 

A Simple Custard 102 

Baked Apples 105 

Baked Honey Apples 107 

Banana Cream 115 

Banana Flip 115 

Blueberry Steam Pudding Ill 

Bread Pudding 108 

Brown Pudding Ill 

Carrot Pudding 114 

Charlotte Russe 104 

Charlotte Russe-Fluff 113 

Cherry Pudding 118 

Chocolate Bread Pudding 109 

Cottage Cheese Custard Pie 118 

Cottage Pudding 109 

Creamed Rice with Brandied Figs 115 

Crumb Bread Pudding 108 

Custard Souffle 110 

Date Pudding 102 

Date Pudding 107 

Delicate Fresh Strawberry Dessert Ill 

Fig Dessert 105 

Fig Tapioca 107 

Filling for Nut Cake 109 

Frozen Apple Float 117 

Frozen Cherry Pudding 116 

Ginger Bread with Apples 102 

f^raham and Fig Pudding 114 

Grape Nut Pudding 105 

Hingham Pudding 108 

Ice Box Pudding 114 

Iced Rice Pudding Ill 

Italian Cream Ill 

Lemon Pudding 106 

New England Indian Pudding 112 

Manhattan Pudding 116 

Maple Ice Cream ".117 

Maple Mousse 117 

Maple Parfait 117 

Maple Snuce to Be Served with Rice 106 

Marshmallow Cream 116 

Marshmallow Pudding 108 

Meringue 103 

Molasses Pie 110 

Orange Bavoise 104 

Peach Pudding 112 

Pastry 118 

Prune Jelly 107 

Prune Pudding 103 

Prune Pudding 106 

ICO 



Prune Whip ]^ 

Prunes Cooked without Sugar ||^ 

Plum Pudding j'j'^ 

Raspberry Sponge J|^ 

Rhubarb \\^ 

Rhubarb Pie {{^ 

Rice Custard \\j. 

Rice Souffle j }^ 

Russian Cascell ji.^ 

Spanish Cream JY^ 

Spiced Bread Pudding JY^ 

Snow Pudding— Custard Sauce |1^ 

St. James Pudding JY^ 

Steam Suet Pudding |if 

Steamed Chocolate Pudding |Yo 

Strawberry Short Cake } Jo 

Suggestion for Dessert Jj*"^ 

Surprise Pudding 1^^ 

Tapioca Custard r};^ 

Troy Pudding | }^ 

War Pudding [^^ 

War Time Steamed Puddmg 1^ 

EGGS 

Blocked Eggs ^ 

Cheese Omelet ■ ^ 

Eggs and Cheese in Ramikins ^ 

Egg Croquettes ^V 

Egg for an Invalid j^\ 

^gg Souffle 40 

Egg Timbales • 7a 

Hominy Grits and Scrambled Eggs ^ 

Italian Gnochi jj 



Kidney Omelet 
Omelet 



41 
41 



FISH 



Baked Fish . . 
Baked Salmon 
Clam Fritters 
Codfish Balls 



35 

35 

36 

• 35 

Codfish Balls with Rice 34 

Corn Meal Fish Cakes ^o 

Crab Croquettes ^{. 

Creamed Shad Roe . . ^^ 

Escalloped Oysters ^' 

Fish Crowder ^^ 

Fish Pudding ^° 

Fisli Souffle ■^•^ 

Garnish fftr Fish ^^ 

Halibut Cutlets ^^ 

Luncheon Fish Dish ^^ 

Luncheon Sardine Dish ■^t^ 

Planked Shad with Creamed Roe -j/ 

Rice Codfish Pudding ^^ 

Shad Roe Croquettes •'* 

161 



GRIDDLE CAKES AND WAFFLES 

Barley Waffles 24 

Buckwheat Cakes 24 

Corn Cakes 24 

Corn Griddle Cakes 24 

Corn Meal Waffles 25 

Delicious Corn Cakes 25 

Oatmeal Griddle Cakes 25 



MEATS AND MEAT SUBSTITUTES 

Bean Loaf 44 

Bean or Pea Loaf 48 

Beef Croquettes 46 

Beef Olives 47 

Boiled Ham in Milk 52 

Brazilian Turkey 45 

Camouflage Roast 45 

"Cheap Cuts" of Steak 44 

Corn Beef Hash 51 

Cornmeal and Meat 46 

Creamed Ham 45 

Croquettes without Eggs 50 

Delicious Stuffed Peppers 51 

For Sauc^ 50 

Garnish for Cold Lamb 44 

Garnish for Ham 44 

Green Pea Loaf 48 

Ham Mousse 46 

Hominy and Chipped Beef 45 

Hominy and Toinato 48 

Italian Spaghetti 47 

"Lalla Rookh" 51 

Liberty Meat 44 

Meat Loaf 50 

Minced Liver with Toast 49 

Mock Duck 44 

Mock Sausage 47 

Mock Terrapin 49 

Nut Scrapple 49 

Onion Soup Au Gratin 46 

Pork Croquette 52 

Rice and Bread, Meat Substitute 51 

Rolled Steak and Vegetables 52 

Royal Escallop 46 

Scalloped Beef or Lamb 50 

Shepherd's Pie 49 

Spanish Rice 49 

Tamale Pie 47 

Tomato Cakes 48 

Yorkshire Pudding 47 

War Meat Substitute 50 

162 



MISCELLANEOUS 

Baking Powder • cq 



Butter 



,151 



Brass Polish , r2 

Don't Waste Any Soap j^ ^ 

1 lousehold Hints ^- ■ •,•.' i;? 

Make Soap of Fat Unfit tor Cooking |^^ 

Packing Butter for Winter Use j^J^ 

Packing Eggs for Winter Use J^^' 

Rules for Substitution i'^j' 

Silver Cleaner | ^f^ 

Suet (Rendered for Frying) j^^ 

Table of Proportions |^° 

Toilet Soap , c^ 

Weights and Measures !^" 

White Soap— No. 1 j^ J 

White Soap — No. 2 



PIE FOR WAR TIME 

CRUSTS 

123 
.\pple-Raisin -22 

Barley i ^^ 

Cottage Cheese Rice Pie Crust |^- 

Cornmeal and Wheat |^- 

Mince Meat without Meat jg 

Oatmeal ^^-i 

^j-^^ge ^22 

Rice , 2? 

Rve Pie Crust -^*: 

Sugarless F"illings — .Apple ^-"^ 

PRESERVED FRUITS 

Addition of Salt to Peaches and Plums 136 

Cherries for Pie ■ •••• >^? 

Canned Peaches, Canned Pears, Canned Sweet Apples 1^^ 

Canned Rhubarb {^^ 

Canned Yellow Raspberries {^^ 

Delicious Strawberry Jam j^^"^ 

Fresh Peaches |^~ 

Gooseberry Chutney j^-^ 

Grape Butter !.i^ 

Grape Juice j^- 

Grape Juice for Freezing |^^ 

Grape Marmalade j" ^ 

Kurnquat Marmalade 1^^ 

Peach and Pineapple Preserves |^^ 

Pears and Quinces |^^ 

x^ickeled Prunes {^^ 

Raisin and Grape Marmalade |-^^ 

Spiced Currants .-i 

Spiced Peaches j^^ 

Strawberries ,X_^ 

Strawberries and Cherries ^"^^ 

163 



Strawberry Preserves 132 

Strawberries and Pineapples 134 

Stufifed Peaches : 136 

To Test Fruit for Pectin 136 



PUTTING UP VEGETABLES 

Boiler 142 

Corn 141 

Dried Corn 143 

■'Government Suggestion" 142 

How to Cook Dried Corn 143 

Important 143 

Inspection 140 

Jars 140 

Length of Time for Steaming 142 

Lids 140 

Preparing Vegetables 141 

Putting Vegetables in Jars 141 

Putting Jars in Boiler 142 

Rubber Bands 140 

Sealing Wax 142 

To Boil or Sterilize Water 140 

Tomatoes 141 

Washing 140 

Water 140 

RELISHES AND PICKLES 

Chili Sauce 147 

Chopped Pickle 146 

Chow Chow 144 

Cold Cucumber Pickles 148 

Cold Tomato Catsup 145 

Corn Sauce 144 

Cucumber Sauce 145 

Home Made Vinegar 146 

Mixed Pickles in Mustard Dressing 147 

Pepoer Hash 146 

Pickled Onions 148 

Sliced Cucumber Pickle 145 

Soanish Pickle 144 

Sliced Cucumbers 148 

Sniced Pickle 145 

Tomato Catsup 146 

SALADS 

Apple and Date Salad 65 

Apple Surprise 68 

Asparagus Salad 67 

Dressing 66 

Dressing 67 

Frozen Fruit Salad 64 

Frozen Fruit Salad 66 

Frozen Tomato Jelly 64 

164 



Fruit Gelatine Salad 64 

Ginger Ale and Fruit Salad 68 

Golden Dressing 65 

Grapefruit, Orange and Nut Salad 65 

King Salad 67 

Oyster Salad 67 

Perfection Salad 65 

Pineapple and Marshmellow Salad 67 

Pineapple Salad 68 

Pineapple Salad with Golden Dressing 65 

Potato Salad 66 

Potato Salad 68 

Salad Miami » 66 

Salad Moderne 66 

Sv:mmer Salad 68 

Tomato Jelly Salad 64 

Tomato Salad 67 

SALAD DRESSINGS 

Boiled Salad Dressing 73 

Cream Dressing (For Cold Slaw) 73 

French Dressing 74 

Russian Dressing IZ 

Simple Salad Dressing (Without Oil) 12> 

Wesson Oil Mayonnaise 12> 

SANDWICHES 

Bean Sandwiches 81 

Celery Sandwiches 80 

Cheese Dreams '81 

Cinnamon Toast 80 

Date Sandwiches 81 

Delicious Sandwiches 80 

Norwegian Sandwiches 80 

Nut and Cheese Loaf 81 

Pepper Hash Sandwiches (refer to pickles) 81 

Sandwiches 81 

Sandwich Fillings 82 

Toasted Graham Sandwiches 80 

Tuna Fish 82 

Uneeda Biscuit Club Sandwich 80 

SAUCES 

Brown Nut Sauce 76 

Cottage Pudding Sauce 11 

Cornstarch Sauce 11 

Cream Sauce with Cheese 78 

Golden Sauce 11 

Hard Sauce 11 

Italian Tomato Sauce : . . 76 

Maryland Sauce (See Rice PufTs) 78 

Mock Hollandaise Sauce 76 

Mustard Sauce A La Plaza Hotel 11 

Nutmeg Sauce . . . : 11 

165 



Pimento Sauce 76 

Sauce for Beets 78 

Vanilla Sauce 11 

White Sauce , 78 



SOUPS 

Asparagus Soup 28 

Carrot Soup 27 

Corn Chowder 31 

Cream of Lima Bean •. 28 

Cream of Vegetable Soup 29 

French Vegetable Soup 27 

Kidney Bean Soup 30 

Lobster Bisque 30 

Marrow Balls 31 

Mushroom Soup 27 

Onion and Cheese Soup 28 

Ox Tail Soup 29 

Pea Soup 30 

Pea Soup 31 

Potato Soup 30 

Quick Bouillon 30 

Spinach Soup 28 

Suggestion — Garnished Ox Tail 29 

String Bean Soup 28 

Tomato Bouillon with Oysters 29 

Vegetable Soup without Meat 27 



VEGETABLES 

Baked Bermuda Onions 58 

Baked Cabbage b'6 

Baked Egg Plant 57 

Baked Hominy 57 

Beets with Cream Dressing 56 

Corn Fritters 57 

Dutch Potato Cakes 58 

Green Corn Fritters 58 

Hominy Croquettes 56 

Macaroni 59 

Parsnip Fritters 58 

Potatoes 55 

Potato Croquettes 55 

Rice Puffs 55 

Spinach Mould 58 

Spinach with Mushrooms 55 

Stuft'ed Egg Plant 55 

Stuffed Onions 59 

Stuffed Egg Plant 57 

Stewed Mushrooms 59 

Sweet Fried Cabbage 57 

Vegetable Souffle 56 

166 



"WAR CANDY" 

Black Walnut Taffy 127 

Brown Sugar Fudge 128 

Caramel Fudge 128 

Chocolate Maple l"\idge 127 

Honey Candy 125 

Honey Roll 127 

Karo Divinity 125 

Maple Cocoanut Balls 127 

Maple Fondant 126 

Molasses Candj^ 128 

Nut Balls 125 

Popcorn Candy 128 

Puffed Rice War Candy 126 

Sea Foam ^^ 128 

Stuffed Dates 126 

Stuffed Figs 125 



167 



11 44 









". -hi!' .-i 















-.- **'% 

















Google 



This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on Hbrary shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 

to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 

to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 

are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other maiginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 

publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing this resource, we liave taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 
We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain fivm automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attributionTht GoogXt "watermark" you see on each file is essential for informing people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liabili^ can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 

at |http : //books . google . com/| 



Schlesinger Library 
Radcliffe College 



Culinary Collection 

From the Collection of 
Sophie Coe 



e? 



c: 



Twentieth Century Club 

WAR TIME 

COOK BOOK 



\ ^ 
I 



PITTSBURGH 
PIERPONT. SIVITER & CO. 
1918 






^" •■•■ ■,, 



< > > 



Copyright 1018 

By the Twentieth Century Club 

of Pittsburgh 



Dedicated to 

Mrs. William Watson smith 

PRESIDENT OF THE 

TWENTIETH Century club 

BY THE 

Cook book committee 

1918 



A RECIPE FOR GOOD HUMOR. 

"Take twenty-four hours; mix thoroughly with the 
milk of human kindness; add spice of life to suit taste, 
a little discretion, some common sense; knead with the 
hand of friendship and bake in the open hearth of love; 
do not allow it to cool too quickly by trouble, or become 
sour by affliction ; serve with generous sauce and a bright 
smile/' 



THE NET PROCEEDS FROM 

THE*. SALE OF THIS BOOK 

AREFORTHE 

WAR WORK OF THE CLUB 

PLEASE • DO • NOT • LEND • IT, 

BUT • ASK . YOUR • FRIENDS 

TO BUY- ONE 




It is suggested that as far as possible 
the butter, sugar, animal fat and 
wheal given in these recipes he changed 
to war time substitutes. 

The Cook Book Committee. 



WE MUST SUBSTITUTE, 





' Corn 




Tapioca ^ 




Oats 


WHEAT 


Barley 




Rye 




Rice 




Potato 




' Cottonseed Oil 




Wesson Oil 


BUTTER 

4 


Mazola 


LARD 


Peanut Oil 


( 


Drippings 




Nut Margarine 


• 


' Molasses 


SUGAR 


Honey 


• 


Syrups — Corn and Maple 




Poultry 




Beans 


BEEF 


Eggs 


PORK 


Cheese 


MUTTON 


Nuts 




Fish 




Milk 



Breads 



GENERAL SUGGESTIONS FOR THESE BREADS 

.e Molasses in Rolled Oats Bread to save sugar, 
ie hardened vegetable fat to save the butter, 
substitutes needed abroad. 



Use '/i cake yeast whei 



■uight 



Kill greased patis a little 
Bake in moderately hot c 
to preveni uneven si- 
Use these breads in turn 
If possible buy skimmed 



nilk for use in baking 

i. FOOD administ: 

ALLEGHENY COU: 



CORN AND FLOUR BREAD 

nimeal and white 1 tablespoon larc 

1 cake yeast (ms 

later soaked In ^ 



Mix cornmeal. water and salt together, maki 

ok until very soft. 

Add other ingredients, making a stiff dough i 

In ihe ihorning work the dough again before 

(Mrs. Eugene L. 

CRACKLING CORN BREAD 



Bake 30 mini 
(Mrs. J. M 



CORN BREAD WITH MILK AND EGG 

Yz cup white cornmeal 1 tablespoon Crisco, melted 

Yi cup yellow cornmeal 1 tablespoon sugar 

1 cup flour 1 rounded teaspoon salt 

1 cup milk 3 teaspoons baking powder 

1 egg 

Bring cup of milk to a boil and pour over the cornmeal 
and salt; stir well and let stand Yz hour before stirring in 
the rest. Pour into a large pan and bake about 30 minutes in 
a moderate oven. (Mrs. P. J. Eaton) 

CORN BREAD, Without Milk 

2 cups white cornmeal 1 tablespoon butter 

lYi cups boiling water ^ teaspoon baking powder 

2 eggs 1 teaspoon salt 

Put the cornmeal in a bowl, make a hole in the center 
and add the salt and butter. Pour ^ cup boiling water over 
the butter and stir until it is melted. Then add ^ cup boiling 
water and stir it well into the meal. Add a full cup boiling 
water, and when well mixed add the eggs, beating in one at 
a time; add baking powder and bake immediately. 

(Mrs. S. B. Ely) 

CORN BREAD Without Milk and Eggs 

2 cups white cornmeal 2 cups boiling water 

2 level teaspoons salt 2 cups cold water 

Scald meal and salt with boiling water and add cold water 
slowly; beat well and let stand over night. Bake 1 hour in a 
moderate oven. (Mrs. Benjamin McKeen) 

BATTER BREAD 

1 pint sweet milk 2 eggs 

1 pint cornmeal salt 

teaspoon lard 
Make mush with meal and hot water; cook a few minutes; 
thin with milk; melt lard m pan for baking; pour in the batter; 
add eggs well beaten last. (Mrs. F. R. Babcock) 

* SPOON BREAD 

1 quart milk 1 tablespoon melted butter 

1 cup cornmeal 1 tablespoon baking powder 

2 eggs salt 

Beat eggs, add milk, melted butter, salt, cornmeal and 
baking powder. Bake in moderate oven. This is soft when 
baked and served with a spoon. (Mrs. A. G. Mitchell) 



Buy beef suet and render it carefully. You can use 
it in place of butter in making cake, bread and pastry 
and for frying. 

11 



WAR BREAD 

.2 yeast cakes dissolved in ^ cup luke warm water, 

1 teaspoon sugar. 

Let them stand in warm place till light. 

2 oz. lard.* , 2 cups hot water 
J/2 cup sugar or Karo syrup Ij/^ cups cold water 

4 level teaspoons salt 

Mix lard and hot water, add sugar, salt, and last, cold 
water. 

When yeast is foaming, beat these together and add: 
2 cups cornmeal 11 cups white flour sifted to- 

6 cups bran gether 

Knead well and when light make into loaves. When 
double in size, bake 45 minutes. 

(Can use 3 cups cornmeal and 10 of flour.) 

(Mrs. Wm. Thaw, Sr.) 



SPOON CORN BREAD 

1 cup cornmeal 3^^ teaspoon salt 

2 cups boiling water 

Boil 2 hours in double boiler. Take from fire and add 
1 cup milk Lump of butter size of a walnut 

1 egg beaten very light 

Beat mixture very light and put in a baking dish. Bake 
V2 hour. Serve as a vegetable. (Mrs. (George L. Clifford) 

OATMEAL BREAD 

4 cups of uncooked rolled 2 tablespoons of salt 

oats (loose, not in pkg.)^ cups molasses 
6 cups of boiling water 1 yeast cake (dissolved) 

2 tablespoons Crisco 2>^ to 3 qts. flour 

Pour the boiling water over the rolled oats, adding the 
Crisco and salt. Let cool. Add (when luke warm) molasses 
and yeast cake -which has been dissolved in a little luke warm 
water. Add flour enough to make stifl' (usually 2V2 to 3 qts.) 
Stir it well. Put to rise over night. Put in pans in the morn- 
ing without adding flour or kneading and let rise for about 3 
hours. Bake for one hour. 

This makes five loaves, or four loaves and muft'ins. 



Use every crumb of stale bread. You will find a num- 
ber of recipes in this book to help you. 

12 



BOSTON BROWN BREAD 

1 cup rye meal ^ teaspoon salt 

2 cups cornmeal 1 cup sour milk 
1 teaspoon soda raisins 

% cup molasses 

* 

Put into tightly covered mold which has been greased. 

Steam over 6 hours. Dry in oven a few minutes and serve, 
cutting loaf across mold. 

OATMEAL BREAD 

1 cup. liquid 1 tablespoon sugar or 3 
y4^y2 cake yeast tablespoons Karo Corn 
1^ cups oatmeal Syrup or Molasses 

2-3 cups wheat flour 1 teaspoon salt 

1 tablespoon fat 

Heat liquid to boiling and with it scald the oatmeal. 
Allow to cool, and proceed making batter as for ordinary 
bread sponge. 

Makes 13 oz. loaf, costs 9c. 

(Miss Pope) 

BUTTERMILK BROWN BREAD 

% cup molasses 1 cup of graham flour 

2 large cups buttermilk ^ cup of rye flour 
1 level teaspoon of soda dis- 2 cups cornmeal 

solved in 1 large tablespoon white flour 

1 tablespoon hot water 1 tablespoon melted butter 

y2 teaspoon of salt 

Stir together and beat well. Steam 3 or 4 hours in well 
buttered can. 

Remove cover of can and place in oven about 5 minutes 
to dry off. 

(Miss Clara Johnson) 

BOSTON BROWN BREAD Without Milk 

1 cup cornmeal 1 pint hot water 

1 cup rye meal 1 teaspoon soda 

1 cup white flour salt 

1 cup molasses 

Mix dry ingredients together, steam 3 hours in an air-tight 
mold. Dry in oven half an hour. 

(Mrs. Chester B. Albree) 

BOSTON BROWN BREAD 

1 cup cornmeal 1 teaspoon salt 

1 cup rye • 1 heaping teaspoon soda 

1 cup white flour , 1 pint sour milk 

Y^ cup molasses 

Mix thoroughly the first five ingredients. Beat soda into 
the milk and add to mixture, making a thin batter as for cake, 
adding more milk if necessary. Steam for 4 hours. 

(Mrs. George E. House) 



Cut your bread at the table as it is wanted. 

13 



BARLEY BREAD 

\]/(, cups barley flour 1 cup liquid 

% to %' cake yeast softened inl teaspoon salt 
%! cup lukewarm water 2% cups white flour 

Scald the liquid, cool to lukewarm, add the salt, the soft- 
ened yeast and half the flour, beat thoroughly, cover and let 
rise until very light. Then add the remainder of the flour. 
Knead, cover and let rise until double in bulk. Shape into a 
loaf, cover and let rise again until double in bulk. Bake. 

(War Food Bureau, Baltimore) 

BRAN BREAD (One Loaf) 

P/4 cups liquid 1 tablespoon fat 

% to y2 yeast cake softened 1 cup bran 

in % cup lukewarm water 3 cups wheat flour (more or 

1^ teaspoons salt less) 
2 tablespoons molasses 

Scald liquid, pour over salt, molasses and fat. When luke- 
warm add softened yeast. Beat well. Add bran and enough 
flour to make sponge. Let stand till light and foamv. Then 
add enough more flour to make a dough. Knead until smooth 
and elastic. Let rise till slightly more than double in bulk. 
Shape into a loaf. When a little more than twice its original 
size, bake from 50 minutes to 1 hour. 

Note — Not so high in nutritive value as other breads, but 
has a special value owing to its laxative effect. 

(The Pennsylvania State College) 

HOMINY BREAD (With Wheat Flour and 'Potatoes (Three 
Loaves) (From the Club Messenger) 



1^ cups cooked hominy 

5^2 cup potatoes 

1 tablespoon fat 

1^/2 teaspoons salt 



1 tablespoon sugar 

1 yeast cake 

8 cups flour (more or less) 



Cook together the cooked hominy and potatoes until the 
potatoes are tender. Put through a colander or potato ricer. 
Add the salt, sugar, fat, and enough water to make four cups, 
and when lukewarm, the yeast softened in a small amount of 
the liquid. Add enough wheat flour to make a sponge. Let 
stand till light and foamy. Add flour to make a dough. Knead 
until smooth and elastic. Let rise till slightly more than 
double in bulk. Shape into loaves. When a little more than 
twice the original size, bake about 1 hour. 

(The Pennsylvania State College) 



Do not serve new bread — one eats more than is 
necessary. 

14 



PRUNE BREAD 

Take 2 dozen prunes, wash well, just cover with water 
and let stand over night. Cook in same water. Thoroughly 
cool and remove pits. Chop fine. 

Mix: Mix: 

4 cups Dr. Johnston's Edu- 1 cup molasses 

cator Bran 1 teaspoon soda, beat toget'ier 

2 curs Franklin Milk Whole 2 cups fluid, sweet m'lk and 

Wheat Flour prune juice together 
1 scant teaspoon salt 

Add prunes 

Mix all together. Bake in small loaves in moderate oven 



1 hour or more. 



NUT AND RAISIN BREAD 

2 cups pastry flour Y^ cup molasses 

1 cup graham flour 1 cup thick sour milk 

1 teaspoon salt Yi teaspoon soda, scant and 

3 slightly rounding teaspoons measured level. 

baking powder Yi cup nut meats, chopped 

1 egg y^ cup raisins, chopped 

Sift together the dry ingredients, put the soda in the sour ' 
milk and beat thorougbbj^; add the molasses, beaten egg and 
stir into the dry ingredients. Stir in nuts and rais'.ns and turn 
into a greased breadpan. Let stand 15 mhiutes, then bake 
about 45 minutes. 

(Mrs. Chester B. Albree) 

NUT BREAD 

J/2 cup cornmeal XYz cups rye flour 

^^ teaspoon salt 4 teaspoons baking powder 

1 level tsn. vegetable fat Va cup milk 

% cup boiling water Y2 cup chopped nuts 

Put cornmeal into a bowl, add salt, fat an-^l bo'ling water, 
mix; let stand 20 minutes. Add flour mixed with baking pow- 
der and the milk and lastly the chopped nuts. Mix lightly, 
pour into a well-greased bread pan; let stand in a warm place 
20 minutes. Bake in a moderately hot oven. Do not cut unt 1 
cold. 

SPIDER BREAD 

XYi cups flour Y2 teaspoon lard 

1 pint boiled hominy Y2 teaspoon butter 

Y2 pint milk 2 teaspoons baking powder 

1 tablespoon salt 1 ^%% 

Bake in shallow tins about half inch thick. 



Instead of hot cakes for breakfast, use your stale 
bread, cut in thin slices, toasted«and dipped quickly in 
boiling water, buttered, add a spoonful of honey on top. 
Serve immediately. Can be best done at the table with 
water over an electric plate. 

15 



POTATO BREAD 

IVz cups mashed potatoes 4 cups flour Tinore or less) 

y2 cup liquid including water IV2 teaspoon salt 

in which yeast is softened 1 tablespoon fat 

54 to 1 yeast cake 1 tablespoon sugar 

Add salt, fat and sugar to mashed potatoes. When luke- 
warm add liquid, also lukewarm, in which yeast has been soft- 
ened. Mix with enough flour to make a sponge. Let rise till 
light and foamy, add enough more flour to make a dough. 
Knead till smooth and elastic. Let rise till slightly more than 
double in bulk. Shape into a loaf. When a little more than 
twice its original size, bake for about 1 hour, 

(The Pennsylvania State College) 

RICE BREAD (One Loaf) 

1 cup steamed rice cooked l]/2 teaspoons salt 
very soft ]/2 tablespoon sugar 

y2 cup liquid J^ tablespoon fat 

/4 to Yz yeast cake 3 cups flour (more or less) 

Scald liquid, then cool to lukewarm. Soften yeast in this. 
Add to rice with salt, sugar, and fat. Beat well, add flour 
gradually till stiff enough to knead. Knead till very smooth 
and elastic. Let rise till slightly more than double in bulk. 
Shape into a loaf. When a little more than twice its original 
size, bake from 50 minutes to 1 hour. 

(The Pennsylvania State College) 

GRAHAM GEMS With Sour or Butter Milk 

1% cups graham flour Generous pinch of salt 

^ cup flour 1 cup sour, or butter milk 

3 tablespoons melted butter 5^ teaspoon soda in milk 

1 egg y2 tablespoon sugar 

Bake in gem pans in moderate oven. Makes 1 dozen. 



WAR-TIME ECONOMY. 

L Choose food wisely. 

2. Store it properly. 

3. Cook it carefully. 

4. Serve it attractively. 

Don't give the new dishes a black eye by having too 
many of them at once. Use all the ingenuity you have 
to make them both taste and look well. 

Food habits, like other habits, are not easily changed. 
Lead gently into the new realm. 

16 



RYE BREAD (One Loaf) 

1 cup liquid 1 tablespoon sugar or 

j4 to 5/2 yeast cake softened 2 tablespoons molasses 

in % cup luke «warm 1 tablespoon fat 

water 3 cups wheat flour (more or 

\y2 teaspoons salt less) 

1 cup rye flour 

Scald liquid, pour over salt, sugar and fat. When luke- 
warm add softened yeast. Beat well. Add flour to make a 
sponge. Let rise till light and foamy. Then add remaining 
flour to make a dough. Knead until smooth and elastic. Let 
rise till slightly more than double in bulk. Shape into a loaf. 
When a little more than twice its original size, bake from 50 
minutes to 1 hour. 

(The Pennsylvania State College) 



CORN MUFFINS 

2 cups cornmeal J^ cup sugar 

1 cup flour 1 cup sweet milk 

3 eggs (2 will do — use a 1 teaspoon salt 

little more milk) 3 teaspoons baking powder 

J/2 cup shortening 

Bake 15 minutes in moderate oven in gem pans. 

(Anna Dake McCague) 

PEANUT BUTTER BREAD OR MUFFINS 

1 cup flour ]/2 cup peanut butter mixed 

1 teaspoon baking powder with ^ cup milk 

% teaspoon salt 1 egg 

V3 cup sugar 1 teaspoon shortening 

Bake bread 40 minutes. Bake muffins 12 to 15 minutes. 



**EDUCATOR" BRAN MUFFINS 

1 cup Porto Rico molasses 1 cup sweet milk 

1 cup "Educator" bran flour ^/^ teaspoon baking soda, dis- 

1 cup white flour solved in a little hot water. 

First, mix the two flours together; then add soda; last, 
mix the molasses and sweet milk together. Mix all together. 

(Mrs. Frederick R. Babcock) 



Make your own peanut meal. Hull the peanuts and 
remove the thin red skin, place on thick parafine paper 
and crush fine with rolling pin. 

17 



BUCKWHEAT MUFFINS 

1 cup wheat flour 1^ cup milk 

1 cup buckwheat 1 eg^ 

4 teaspoons baking powder 1 tablespoon melted fat 

}i teaspoon salt 2 tablespoons molasses 

Sift together dry ingredients. Combine milk, beaten eggs, 
melted fat and molasses. Add liquid and dry ingredients. 
Mix well. Bake half an hour in moderate oven. Makes 10 or 12. 

(Mrs. Mortimer C. Miller) 

BUCKWHEAT BUNS 

1 cake yeast in % cup water 1 tablespoon sugar or mo- 
1 cup milk lasses 

1 tablespoon fat \Yy *""" *'"<=.'^**^^^t , 

^ \y2 cup white cornmeal 

Yt teaspoon salt i cup wheat flour 

Beat well, let stand till light, about 3 hours. Beat again. 
Put in muffin pans. Raise at least 2 hours, until very light. 
Bake quickly. 

(Mrs. Fletcher Collins) 

BIRD'S NEST 

Bird's Nests are made for any kind of hot rolls, from 
yeast bread dough, rye, wheat, oatmeal, etc. Take a small 
amount and roll about the thickness of your thumb and 6 
inches long. Tie in a single knot, making head of one end 
and tail of the other. The tail can be marked with a fork and 
the beak formed into shape with the fingers. 

Let rise and bake as any other hot rolls. 



k 



GRAHAM MUFFINS WITH SWEET MILK 

1 cup white flour % teaspoon salt 

»-^' / 1 cup graham flour 1 teaspoon baking powder 

1 tablespoon butter '1 ^%^ . . 

J/2 teaspoon sugar 1 scant cup sweet milk ^'j 

Rub butter into flour; add dry ingredients, mix well. Beat 
the ^^gy put it into a measuring-cup and fill with milk. Stir 
this into the flour; when thoroughly mixed fill buttered gem 
pans and bake in a quick oven umtil golden brown. This bat- 
ter is very stiff and the top of the muffin when baked should 
be rough. 




Avoid: 1. Sweet soft drinks. 

2. Leaving sugar in coffee cups. 

3. Frosting on cake unless made with honey 
or maple syrup. 

4. As much cake as formerly. 

18 



BERKSHIRE MUFFINS 

Vt. cup cornmeal Vi teaspoon salt 

Yi cup cooked rice 1 egg 

Vz cup flour 1 tablespoon melted fat 

2 tablespoons sugar 3 tablespoons baking powder 
% cup scalded milk 

Turn milk on to cornmeal and let stand 5 minutes; add 
rice .and flour which has been sifted with salt and baking pow- 
der. Add t.z% yojk, fat, and beaten white. Cook 20 to 30 
minutes in moderate oyen. 

GRAHAM MUFFINS ^^Ca' >- > .' 

1 cup graham flour 1 tablespoon sug^r 

1 cup white flour 2 tablespoonsful melted buttei 

1 teaspoonful salt 1 ^%% 

3 teaspoonsful baking powder 1 cup milk 

Sift the dry ingredients together, except the graham flour; 
then add the graham flour. Then add the milk, egg yolk with- 
out beating, melted butter and beat well. Then fold in the 
stiffly beaten white of egg. Bake in a moderate oven al 
20 minutes. (Mrs. Wm. Watson Smith) 

BRAN AND GRAHAM MUFFINS' 

1 cup bran 1 cup sweet milk 

2 cups graham or wheat flour % cup melted butter 

4 teaspoons baking powder 1 tablespoon brown sugar 

1 scant teaspoon salt 

(Mrs. George Pearson) 

BRAN GEMS 

2 well beaten eggs 2 tablespoons melted butter 
4 tablespoons molasses 1 cup war flour 

1 cup milk 2 cups Kellogg's bran 

2 heaping tsp baking powder 1 cup seedless raisins 
% teaspoons salt 

Mix in order given and bake in hot gem pans. Quantity 
given makes fourteen gems. 

(Mrs. W. W. Wishart) 

BRAN MUFFINS Without Eggs 

y2 cup flour 2 cups bran 

1^ cups milk 1 level teaspoon soda 

1 teaspoon salt Vi cup molasses 

Mix dry ingredients, then add wet. Put in muffin pans. 
Bake 45 minutes. 

(Mrs. A. K. Grubbs) 



Cold rice can be added to muffins, cornbread, or 
griddle cakes, adding to their lightness, digestibility and 
food value. 

19 



HOT CROSS BUNS 

1 cup scalded milk ^ teaspoon cinnamon 

% cup sugar j^ teaspoon salt 

3 cups flour 2 tablespoons butter 

y^ cup currants Yz yeast cake cJissolved in Y^ 

1 egg cup lukewarm water 

Add butter, sugar and salt to milk; when lukewarm add 
dissolved yeast cake, cinnamon and egg well beaten. When 
thoroughly mixed, add raisins; cover and let rise over night: 
in the morning form in large cakes or biscuits, place in pans 
one inch apart, let rise, brush over with egg and bake 20 min- 
utes. When cool, make cross with frosting on each cake. 

(Mrs. Wm. H. Latshaw) 

PLAIN MUFFINS 

1 tablespoon butter 1 cup sweet milk 

1 tablespoon sugar 2 cups flour, sifted 

1 egg 2 teaspoons baking powder 

pinch salt 

Bake in gem pans in moderate oven. Makes 1 dozen. 

PARKER HOUSE ROLLS 

1 pint flour (sifted twice) Y\ cake yeast 
1 small pint cornmeal (scald- 1 even teaspoon sugar 
ed in hard boiling water) 1 even tablespoon lard 
Yi pint cold boiled milk salt 

Mix flour and lard together. Make hole in center and add 
the cornmeal. Make hole in center of cornmeal and pour in 
milk, yeast and sugar. Let stand over night without mixing. 
In morning knead and leit rise 3 hours. 

Work into rolls, making 3 dozen» Let rise again until 
about 3 times their size, and bake in hot oven 20 minutes. 

(Miss Bissell) 

BLUEBERRY MUFFINS 

1 tablespoon butter or Crisco2 cups flour 

1 Qg^ 2 tsp Royal baking powder 

Y2 cup sugar 1 cup berries 

^ cup milk 

(Mrs. H. A. Ross) 

RICE CAKES 

1 cup cold boiled rice 1 scant tablespoon flour 

3 or 4 tg^ whites Season with salt 

Beat whites until very stiff; fold in the flour and rice. Bake 
on a soapstone griddle. Serve with butter, sugar and cinna- 
mon (Mrs. Wm. Watson Smith) 



Instead of having hot cakes for breakfast, serve them 
as a luncheon dessert. 



20 



MUFFINS 

Take out one-fifth of dough when moulding the loaves 
and add 1 tablespoon Crisco and put it into gem pans. Let it 
rise and bake when light enough. 

(Mrs. P. J. Eaton) 

RICE MUFFINS 

2^4 cups flour 5 teaspoons baking powder 

^ cup hot cooked rice 2 teaspoons sugar 

1 cup milk 2 tablespoons melted butter 

1 egg ^ teaspoon salt 

Mix and sift dry ingredients; add J<2 the milk and the egg 
well beaten. The remainder of the milk mix with the rice; 
beat well and add melted butter. Bake in gem pans. 

(Mrs. P. J. Eaton) 



Other cooked cereals or mashed potatoes may be used in 
this recipe. If the dough is too soft, add a little more flour; 
if too thick, a little more liquid. 

CORN DODGERS 

2 cups cornmeal Pinch salt 

1 pint cold water 2 tsp. Royal baking powder 

Bake on griddle. These are excellent served with fish. 

(Mrs. S. R. Gallagher) 

RICE FLOl/R MUFFINS 

1 pint rice flour 3 teaspoons baking powder 

3 tablespoons lard 1 teaspoon salt 

2 tablespoons sugai 2 eggs 

Milk to make a moderately stiff batter. 

(Mrs. James R. Mactarlane) 



"GO BACK TO THE SIMPLE LIFE." 

Be contented with simple food, simple pleasures, 
simple clothes. Work hard, pray hard, play hard. Work, 
eat, recreate, sleep. Do it all courageously. We have a 
victory to win. 

"Buy less ; cook no more than necessary ; serve smaller 
portions." 

"Use local and seasonable supplies." 

"Preach and practice the 'gospel of the clean plate. 

"Do not limit the plain food of growing children." 



» j» 



21 



Griddle Cakes and Waffles 



CORN GRIDDLE CAKES 



/ 



1 CUD flour 

1 cup cornmeal 

butter size of a walnut 



1/^ cups milk, or enough to 
make right thickness 
Pinch salt 
A little sugar if desired 

2 heaping, tsps baking powder 



Melt butter; mix all ingredients but the last. Stir to- 
gether till smooth and proper thickness. Add baking powder 
just before baking. 

BUCKWHEAT CAKES 



2 cups buckwheat flour 

y2 cup flour 

1 pint warm water 

Yj teaspoon salt 



1 tablespoon molasses 
1 scant teaspoon soda 
1 yeast cake 



Mix all ingredients except soda, adding the yeast last. 
Beat well.. Let rise over night; just before baking add soda 
dissolved in a little hot water. Do not beat after adding soda, 
but carefully stir. Bake on hot greased griddle. The left over 
batter can be used again by adding same amount of ingredients 
except yeast. Only add fresh yeast when latter becomes flat. 

CORN CAKES 

1 cup cornmeal (yellow and 1 teaspoon salt 

white) IJ/^ cups boiling water 

1 tablespoon sugar 1 ^gg, beaten 

1 tablespoon butter 1 teaspoon baking powder 

Mix ingredients; add ])aking powder just before bakin:^ 
on hot griddle, 

(Mrs. Benjamin McKeen) 




BARLEY WAFFLES 

1 cup milk % teaspoon salt 

2 eggs 3 teaspoons baking powder 

3 tablespoons butter substitute2 cups barley flour 

Beat eggs and mix with other ingredients. Bake on h :)l 
waftle iron. 



"KEEP A BUTTER CUP.'' 

Save the small amounts of butter left on plates. 
Scrape it into a cup kept for that purpose. Use it for 
"special" cooking. 

24 



OATMEAL GRIDDLE CAKES 

1 cup milk Yz cup flour 

1 ^%% y^ teaspoon salt 

1 tablespoon vegetable oil 4 level teaspoons baking 
Wz cups cooked oatmeal powder 

Combine milk, beaten egg, and fat, and beat into the 
cooked oatmeal; add flour, salt, and baking powder, which 
have been sifted together, and bake on a hot griddle. Other 
cooked cereals or mashed potatoes may be used instead of 
oatmeal. 

DELICIOUS CORN CAKES 

lJ/2 pints sour or buttermilk 1 teaspoon salt 

2 eggs beaten separately 1 teaspoon soda 

1 tablespoon sugar Enough cornmeal to make 

2 tbsp. melted nut margarine thin batter, no flour 

Before putting in eggs add the melted margarine and soda 
mixed in a very little hot water; throughout the mixing beat 
thoroughly; use more fat than usual in frying. 

(Mrs. Wm. M. Hall) 

CORN MEAL WAFFLES 

1 cup cornmeal 2 tablespoons fat, melted 

1 cup flour 2 eggs 

2 teaspoons baking powder 1 scant cup milk 
^ teaspoon salt 

Beat eggs separately and add yolks to flpur, corn meal, 
baking poy/der, salt, and milk, into which the melted fat is 
poured 

Fold in whites last and bake. 

This quaiVtity makes about 16 waffles. 

(Mrs. W. H. R. Hilliard) 

To avoid smoke when baking cakes, do not use fats for 
greasing. Rub raw potato on the griddle each time before 
frying cakes 

VARYING THE BREAKFAST CEREAL 

When cooking the cereal, make double the amount needed, 
pouring the extra amount into a square pan; let cool, as when 
preparing cornmeal mush, cut in slices and fry for breakfasv 
the next day. 

Add a cupful of chopped dates or figs to oatmeal about 15 
minutes before taking from the fire. 

Add heaping tablespoon chopped salted peanuts to cream 
of wheat, just before serving. 

Pinion nuts also are delicious used in this way. 

25 



Soups 

VEGETABLE SOUP WITHOUT MEAT \ 

J4 cup onions \ 

y^ cup celery ' 

Yi cup carrots 

Yi cup white turnips 

Yz cup leeks 

Yz cup cabbage 

Y^ cup barley soaked in water. 
Cut vegetables into small pieces and mix them. 
Fry in four tablespoons of od until a light brown, 
stirring constantly. Then add 2 5^ quarts of hot 
water and the soaked barley. Cook slowly for 4 
hours. Serve very hot. 

MRS. HERBERT C. HOOVER. 

MUSHROOM SOUP 

1 pint fresh mushooms 1 tablespoon butter 

1 pint cream 1 tablespoon flour 

Wash mushrooms and take off skins; cover with cold 
water; add a little salt and boil until soft; mash hard through 
coUander and add liquid in. which mushrooms were boiled. 
Boil butter and flour and add pint of cream slowly. Put alto- 
gether in double boiler. 

^ (Mrs. Geo. Irwin Holdship) 

CARROT SOUP 

1 cup cooked carrots, run J^ teaspoon butter 
through ricer or grated V/z pint milk 
fresh carrots Vi teaspoon cornstarch 

Melt butter and mix in the corn starch, add carrots, then 
milk. A little stock may be added. Cook in double boiler. 
Spinach may be substituted for carrots. 

FRENCH VEGETABLE SOUP 

2 ounces of parsnips 1 ounce leaks 
3J^ ounces of potatoes 1 small tomato 
1 ounce peas (with shells) 1 small carrot {}/2 oz.) 
1 ounce string beans 

Put vegetables in four quarts of water, reduce to half the 
quantity, boiling gently for six hours. Strain and serve hot. 

(Miss Rachel C. Aiken) 

27 



CREAM OF LIMA BEAN 

1 cup dried beans 1 cup milk 

3 pints cold water 2 tablespoons flour 

2 onions Salt to taste 
2 carrots (cut fine) 

Soak beans over night, drain arid add cold water. Cook 
beans, ,vater, onions and carrots together, strain and rub 
through a sieve. Stir milk, flour and salt into the boiling soup. 

(Mrs. A. K. Grubbs) 

SPINACH SOUP 

y^ peck spinach Yz. teaspoon salt 

1 qt. milk Yz teaspoon paprika 

1 heaping teaspoon flour Butter size of walnut 

Boil the spinach, wash through a sieve. Add this to the 
sauce made of the other ingredients. 

Mrs. T. W. Friend 



Use the water in which vegetables have been boiled 
in your soup stock. 

ASPARAGUS SOUP 

Liquid from 1 can asparagus 1 pint top milk 
Yi. cup mashed potatoes 1 tablespoon whipped cream 

1 tsp. olive oil, or butter Dash of paprika 

With the liquid from the can of asparagus, mix mashed 
potatoes for thickening. Add the olive oil (or butter) and 
milk. Before serving add a tablespoon of whipped cream 

and a dash of paprika pepper to each portion. 

(Mrs. Guy Stewart McCabe) 

STRING BEAN SOUP 

• . 

Use either one can or one good size quart of fresh string 
beans and make the sauce as spinach soup. 

(Mrs. T. W. Friend) 

ONION AND CHEESE SOUP 

2 tbsp. butter substitute 1 cup milk 

2 tbsp. flour Yi. cup grated cheese 

2 cups water 5 onions 

Melt butter substitute, add flour and water in which the 
onions have been cooked. Stir until it boils. Add milk, and 
just before serving stir in cheese. Season to taste with salt 
and cayenne pepper and serve very hot. 

(Mrs. Joseph Burt) 
28 



CREAM OF VEGETABLE SOUP 

1 quart milk (skim milk mayl teaspoon salt 

be used) 2 cups, left-over vegetables 

2% tablespoons flour or corn- warmed in a small quantity 

starch of water then pressed through 

2 tablespoons butter substitute, a sieve. Spinach, peas, 
margarine, or other fat beans, potatoes, celery, oys- 
ter plant, or asparagus make 
good soups 

Stir flour into melted fat and mix with the cold milk. 
Add the cooked vegetables and stir over the fire until thickened. 
If soup is too thick, add a little water or milk. 

TOMATO BOUILLON WITH OYSTERS 

1 can tomatoes 6 cloves 

Ij^ quarts bouillon ^ teaspoon celery salt 

1 'tbsp. chopped onions Yt. teaspoon pepper corn 
5^ bay leaf 1 pt. oysters 

Mix -all ingredients except oysters, and boil 20 minutes. 
Strain, cool and clear, add par-boiled oysters and serve at once. 

(Mrs. Frederic I. Merrick) 
OX TAIL SOUP 

2 ox tails 6 carrots 

5^ cup barley J^ teaspoon alspice 

4 large onions Salt and pepper 

Wash Ox Tail — Cover with 3 quarts cold water and boil 

gently one and one-half hours with salt to taste. Wash the 
barley and boil one hour with ox tails. Have ready the onions 
and carrots chopped fine and boil all together until the vege- 
tables and barley are cooked. Half an hour before removing 
from the fire add the pepper ^and« alspice to taste. 

SUGGESTION— GARNISHED OX TAIL 

2 ox tails 3 carrots 

By removing the ox tail from which (the soup has been 
cooked, before it is cooked to shreads, a very attractive and 
nourishing meal can be made. Slice or cut the carrots in 
long strips. B'oil with salt. Have ready at the time of serv- 
ing and arrange around the joints of the ox tail on platter 
with watercress and parsley. If gravy is desired, which 
adds very much, take a cup and a half of stock before the 
vegetables are put in, straining out the barley. Thicken with 
browned fl'our or add a teaspoon or two of kitchen bouquet 
to give a rich brown color. Pour gravy over the joints of 
meat and serve very hot. 

(Mrs. John A. Murtland) 



In place of white flour use cornstarch for thickening 
soups, gravies and sauces. Use half the amount. 

29 



QUICK BOUILLON 

Drain the liquor from a can of peas, add to it one cup 
of milk, one cup of boiling water in which one beef cube 
has been dissolved, add pinch of salt, paprika, a little butter 
and teaspoon of cornstarch. Boil all one minute and serve in 
cups. 

LOBSTER BISQUE 

1 can lobster 1 tablespoon butter 

2 cups milk J^ cup fine cracker crumbs 

3 pts. boiling water 

Chop the lobster a little, put boiling water, salt, pepper 
and lobster in sauce pan, and cook gently 40 minutes. Strain 
through colander. Have ready scalding milk and the bread 
crumbs and serve 



PEA SOUP 

Creamed Pea Soup can be made from pea pods boiled and 
strained. To this add white sauce. 



POTATO SOUP 

3 pints water , 1 bunch celery greens 

4 potatoes 1 tablespoon butter 
1 bay leaf Yi cup sweet cream 

1 slice of onion 

Boil potatoes in water with bay leaf, slice of onion and 
celery greens. When potatoes are soft mash through a col- 
ander, season with pepper, salt, butter and cream. Cut bread 
in small squares, fry in butter and drop 5 or 8 in soup plate 
before serving. 

(Mrs. H. A. Ross) 

KIDNEY BEAN SOUP 

1 cup red beans 1 teaspoon flour 

1 quart water Pinch mustard 

Yi onion Lemon juice 

1 teaspoon butter substitute Yi glass claret or 

Slices hard boiled egg 1 tsp. Worcestershire sauce 

Pick and soak beans over night. Drain and measure, using 
one cup of beans to above ingredients. Simmer beans and 
onion in water slowly until soft. Rub through sieve, return 
to fire, season with salt. Stir in butter and flour. Boil again 
for a few minutes. Add to this mustard, lemon juice, claret 
and slices of egg. 



Use milk to make the left-overs into satisfying and 
nourishing soups. 

30 



PEA SOUP 

3 cups of split peas (yellow) Ham or bacon ends 

3 leeks or onions Salt and pepper 

Do not throw away the ends of bacon or the ends of ham, 
both make very wholesome pea soup. Bones of beef, poultrv 
of lamb may also be added. After washing a medium sized 
bowl full of bacon ends or ham ends place in a large pan and 
cover with water. Add peas and onions or leeks. Boil until 
soft and strain. Season before serving. . 

(Mrs. John A. Murtland'^ 

MARROW BALLS 

1 cup marrow 1 cup bread crumbs 

1 egg 3 tablespoons hot water 

Pepper and salt to taste 

Render the marrow, then mix bread crumbs, add egg well 
beaten form into balls and drop in bailing soup. 

(Mrs. H. A. Ross^ 

CORN CHOWDER 

1 tablespoon drippings or vege-1 cup corn (fresh or canned) 
table oil 3 cups milk 

! onion sliced V2 teaspoon salt 

2 cups cooked potato diced V^ teaspoon pepper 

Brown the sliced onion and potato in the fat; add corn, 
milk and seasoning. Do not cook too much, merely heat; 
chowder should be served hot. 



.). 



Fish 



SHAD ROE CROQUETTES 



2 shad roes 

Yi pint cream 

Yolks of 2 eggs 

54 grated nutmeg 
1 teaspoon lemon juice 



1 large tablespoon fat 

2 large tablespoons flour 

1 tablespoon chopped parsley 
Salt, cayenne and black 
pepper 



Wash shad roes, put in a saucepan of boiling water, add 
salt, cover and simmer slowly 15 minutes. Take out, remove 
the skin and mash. Put cream on to boil. Rub butter and 
flour together, add to boiling cream and stir until very thick. 
Add yoke of eggs. Take from the fire and add all other in- 
gredients. Mix well and turn out on a dish to cool. 

When cold form into croquettes, dip in egg and bread 
crumbs and fry in deep fat. Serve with Hollandaise sauce. 

(Mrs. J. J. Miller) 



HALIBUT CUTLETS 



1 teaspoonful salt 
Dash of cayenne 



1 lb. boiled halibut 

1 cup creamed butter 

4 to 6 teaspoonfuls cream 

Put boiled halibut through chopper or pick in fine pieces. 
Work in the creamed butter and other ingredients. Shape into 
cutlets and fry in deep fat. 



FISH CHOWDER 

Canned salmon or fresh fish Bread crumbs 
Onions Butter 

Potatoes Pinch of salt 

Ij^ cups milk 

Brown several slices of onions in a casserole. Place a 
layer of potatoes partly cooked, sliced as for escallopes, over 
the onions. On this place a layer of canned salmon or fresh 
fish. Dots of butter should be used, little Salt, as the 
salmon if used is already salted. Repeat until dish is full. 
Cover with bread crumbs. Put over all, one and one-half cups 
milk. Cook until potatoes can be pierced with a fork and top 
nicely browned. (Mrs. Thos. R. Robinson) 



CODFISH BALLS WITH RICE 



\}k cups codfish 1 

1 cup hot mashed potatoes 1 

1 cup hot boiled rice 3 

Mix together and make into balls. Fry in vegetable oil. 
Serve hot. 



tablespoon vegetable fat 
well beaten egg 
teaspoons milk 



The Big Four, a railroad x>hrase, now applies to the 
Food Administration — save Wheat, Meat, Fat, Sugar. 



34 



BAKED FISH 

Any large fish over three pounds. Clean and dry fish, 
rub with salt and flour; stuff with bread crumbs dressing, sea- 
soned with butter, salt, pepper and chopped pickle. Sew up 
opening and bake slowly, about one hour. Serve with Hol- 
landaise or any yellow sauce. 

RICE CODFISH PUDDING 

2 cups boiled rice Salt and pepper 

Ij/^ cups boiled and shredded Ij^ cups milk 

codfish 2 tablespoons butter 

Grated cheese 

Stir in grated cheese and bake in baking dish, thirty 
minutes. 

(Mrs. P. J. Eaton) 

GARNISH FOR FISH 

Slice cucumbers lengthwise rather than across, dip in 
French dressing and powder with chopped parsley. 

(Sweden) 

BAKED SALMON 

Put some fat in bottom of baking dish, add a layer of 
raw sliced onions. Pill the dish with alternate layers of raw 
potatoes and canned salmon ending with potatoes. Pour over 
all a cup and a half of milk with a little flour for thickening, 
also butter, salt and pepper. Bake half hour. 

(Mrs. W. H. Siviter) 

FISH SOUFFLE 

2 eggs 1 cup milk 

2 tablespoons nut margarine 2 teaspoons chopped parsley 

2 tablespoons flour 1 cup shredded fish 

Yi, teaspoon salt 

Make white sauce of margarine, flour, salt and milk; add 
fish, parsley and eggs beaten separately. Bake in ramikins 
until puffed and brown, about 20 minutes. Ramikin dishes 
should be placed in hot water. 

To the water in which fish is boiled add one-half lemon or 
a little vinegar. 

(Mrs. C. R. Peddle) 

CODFISH BALLS 

1 cup codfish boiled and 1 tz% 

shredded 1 rounded tablespoon butter 

A little more than one cup Pepper and salt 
potatoes 

Mix all while hot. Drop from spoon into deep fat. 

(Mrs. A. G. Mitchell) 

35 



CREAMED SHAD ROE 



1 


pair shad roe 


1 


saltspoonful cayenne 


1 


tablespoon butter 


Y^ 


\ pint cream 


1 


tablespoon flour 




Juice of y^ lemon 


1 


teaspoon salt 


3 


hard boiled eggs 



Have shad roe parboiled, blanched, skinned and crumbled. 
Cream butter and flour together, put in chafingdish, when 
smooth, add cream, salt and cayenne. When a little thick 
add roe and lemon juice. Cook until it bubbles; add chopped 
whites of three hard-boiled eggs. Have yolks grated and 
sprinkle over the top. 

CORN MEAL FISH CAKES 

2 level cups of cornmeal mush 1 level teaspoon salt 

2 level cups shredded fish 1 level teaspoon baking powder 

1 t,%^, well beaten 

Mix shredded fish (cold cooked fresh cod or halibut are ex- 
cellent) with cornmeal mush; add t^g'g well beaten, and baking 
powder. Drop by spoonsful into hot fat, on paper. 

If using salt fish, pick it over and soak two or three hours 
to remove salt, omitting salt from recipe. 

CLAM FRITTERS 

1 pint clams 1% cups flour 

2 eggs 2 teaspoons baking powder 
2 cups milk Salt and pepper 

Clean clams, drain and chop. Beat eggs until light, add milk 
and flour which has been mixed and sifted with baking powder. 
Season lightly with salt and pepper. Drop by teaspoonful and 
fry in deep fat. (Mrs. Walter C. Carroll) 

FISH PUDDING 

1 box salmon, or 1 to 2 lbs. Little chopped parsley, or 
fresh fish celery 

2 eggs 1 teaspoon lemon juice 
Yi cup cold milk ^ cup cracker crumbs 

1 scant tablespoon baking 
powder 

Steam in individual molds 40 minutes. Keep liquor from can 
to make white sauce — with 1 cup milk add little lemon juice after 
cooking. 

"PLAN MEALS AND DO YOUR ORDERING 

AHEAD OF TIME." 

This helps your butcher, your baker and your grocery- 
man to have the right amount of material on hand. You 
avoid waste at home. 

36 



LUNCHEON SARDINE DISH 

1 box- sardines Sweitzer cheese 

Bread toasted on one side 
On the untoasted side of bread, spread the oil from the box 
of sardines. Place sardines on this side, and put under broiler 
until toast is brown. 

Serve with Sweitzer cheese — and parsley as a garnish. 

(Mrs. Guy Stewart McCabe) 

ESCALLOPED OYSTERS 

As a change for seasoning in escalloped oysters, add a little 
mace, and pour over the top either a glass of sherry or Madera 
wine. , (Mrs. Magaw, Meadville, Penna.) 

PLANKED SHAD WITH CREAMED ROE 

Steam and split a roe shad. Put skin-side down on an oak 
plank 1 inch thick, sprinkle with salt and pepper and brush over 
with melted butter. Bake 25 minutes in a hot oven. 

Parboil roe in salted water (to which lemon juice has been 
added) for 20 minutes. Remove outsides membranes and mash. 
Melt 3 tablespoons of butter, add one teaspoon of finely chopped 
shallot and cook 5 minutes, add roe sprinkle with 1 tablespoon of 
flour, and pour on gradually % cup of cream. Cook slowly 5 
minutes, add yolks of 2 eggs, season highly with salt, pepper and 
lemon juice. Remove shad from the oven, spread thin part with 
roe mixture and cover with buttered crumbs. Garnish with 
mashed potatoes forced through a pastry bag and tube. Brush 
over with white of egg and return to oven to brown potato and 
crumbs. 

Garnish with tomato cucumber, parsley and lemon. 

(Mrs. Frederic Merrick) 

CRAB CROQUETTES 

4 cups boiled crab meat Cayenne pepper, salt 

1 cup rich milk 1 teaspoon cornstarch 

2 eggs Cracker dust 
2 teaspoons Worcestershire 

sauce 

Put milk in double boiler, add corn starch and cook till thick, 
add crab meat and seasoning, mould in balls dip in eggy roll in 
cracker dust and fry. 

LUNCHEON FISH DISH 

1 lb. halibut, white fish or 4 -hard boiled eggs — cut in 
canned tuna fish, . boiled eighths 

with a little chopped Teaspoon salt 

onion and salt ^ teaspoon paprika 

2 cups thick cream sauce 1 teaspoon finely chopped 

parsley 
Put fish and eggs with cream sauce in chafing dish, heat to • 
scalding point. Serve on slices of toast or toasted corn muffins. 
Garnish with asparagus tips. (H. M. Dermitt) 

37 



Eggs 



EGGS AND CHEESE IN RAMIKINS 

Put in ramikin grated cheese on bottom, drop in egg (not 
beaten), pinch of salt, then layer of cheese. Sprinkle bread or 
cracker crumbs on top and a little butter. Bake until egg is 
cooked. 

HOMINY GRITS AND SCRAMBLED EGGS 

2 cups cold boiled hominy % cup milk 

4 eggs Pinch salt 

Mix and scramble in frying pan. 

(Mrs. J. M. Thorn and Mrs. Little) 

EGG TIMBALES 

3 well beaten eggs Salt and pepper 

^ cup milk A little grated onion 

1 teaspoon chopped parsley 

Bake 45 minutes in well buttered custard cups set in pan of 
hot water; when done, turn out on- a chop-plate with cream 
sauce poured over and garnish with parsley. 

EGG CROQUETTES 

3 hard boiled eggs, chopped 1 tablespoon flour, milk 
1 teaspoon butter A little chopped parsley 

For sauce, blend butter and flour with milk and a little 
chopped parsley; add chopped eggs; shape and set on ice for 
several hours. Roll in egg and bread crumbs and fry in deep 
fat (Crisco). Makes only 4 or 5. (Mrs. M. E. Lee) 

EGG SOUFFLE 

5 eggs Pinch salt and pepper 
l4 cup cream 

Beat yolks and whites separately, add cream to yolks, then 
whites. Grease molds well and set in cold water in pan in oven. 
Bake about 5 minutes. Serve with tomato or cream sauce. Nice 
for individual molds. (Mrs. C. A. Rook) 

EGGS. 

Use left-over egg yolks for scrambled eggs for 
luncheon or breakfast; add one whole egg and two tea- 
spoons milk for each yolk. 

Vegetables in . small quantities left from dinner can 
be added to an omelette for breakfast, or used as flavor- 
ing for a meat sauce. 

40 • 



ITALIAN GNOCHI 

2 cups milk 4 eggs 

2 cups flour 1 tablespoon butter 

Let milk boil with butter, put flour in when boiling and stir 
until smooth; then take from the fire and put in the eggs, 
yolks and whites beaten separately. Take a spoonful of this at 
a time and drop into boiling water; allow each to remain until 
it rises to the top of the water; then place them in a baking 
dish in which has been put a little white sauce; pour more over 
the top, sprinkle a little Parmesan cheese on the top and 
bake for 10 or 15 minutes, and serve in baking dish. 

('Mrs. Frederic L Merrick) ' 

BLOCKED EGGS 

8 - eggs Salt and pepper 

1 cup sour cream Cream sauce 

For eight people, beat up eight eggs in a bowl, add V^ 
cup cream just turned sour, and season well with salt and 
pepper. Fill some little baking dishes and bake in a slow 
oven, like soufltles. 

Make a cream sauce of milk and flour, add % cup sour 
cream, tip the comtents of the baking dishes into the sauce, 
and serve at once. They will flatten to an inch thick. 

EGG FOR AN INVALID 

Make a nest of the stiffly beaten white of an egg, on a 
square of toasted white or graham bread. Drop the yolk in 
the nest, pour over it a tablespoon of rich cream and set for 

3 minutes in a quick oven. (Mrs- Frederic I. Merrick) 

KIDNEY OMELET • 

2 lamb kidneys or two table- 6 eggs 

spoon calves' kidneys Pepper and salt 

Beat the eggs, adding seasoning. Cut the kidneys in very 
small pieces, toss in hot dripping in a frying pan for several 
minutes until quite cooked. In a second frying pan, put a 
tablespoon of hot butter into which pour the beaten eggs. 
Immediately put the mlinced kidney over the eggs and as the 
omelette begins to set, roll the edges until it just meets but 
do not turn over. Have a garnished platter ready and serve 



OMELET 

4 eggs or more 1 pint white sauce 

Beat whites and yolks of eggs separately. Stir yolks to 
which a pinch of salt has been added into the hot white sauce. 
Fold whites in carefully. Cook in skillet on top of stove. 
Put in oven a few minutes. 

• ' 41 



CHEESE OMELET 

1 heaping tablespoon instan- % teaspoon mustard 
taneous tapioca 1 cup hot milk 

% teaspoon salt • V/2 tablespoons olive oil or other 

% teaspoon pepper or paprika cooking oil 

2 tablespoons grated cheese 2 eggs 

Cook the tapioca, salt, pepper, cheese and mustard in 
the hot milk for ten minutes, stirring frequently, then add 
y2 tablespoon of the oil and the yolks of the eggs beaten 
until very light. Stir w^ell, remove from the fire and fold 
into the stiffly beaten whites of the eggs. Put the remainder 
of the oil into an omelet pan and M^hen it bubbles pour in 
the prepared eggs. Shake ^the pan gently so that the omelet 
will not adhere to it and cook until it is a delicate brown 
c.n the bottom, then stand the pan in the oven for a few 
moments to cook the top. Score the center and fold over. 



Salt increases the intensity of cold. Add a pinch of 
salt when beating eggs. 



42 



Meats and Meat Substitutes 



GARNISH FOR COLD LAMB 

Tiny half tomatoes scooped and filled with cold green peas 
and finely diced potatoes that have been marinated either with 
cream or French dressing. (Savoy Hotel, London) 

GARNISH FOR HAM 

Cold boiled eggs. Remove yolks and fill with spinach 
which has been rubbed through a colander and mixed with 
whipped cream. (Savoy Hotel, London) 

MOCK DUCK 

Take large round steak, make poultry stuffing, spread on 
«steak roll and tie, roast from % to ^ hours. 

(Mrs. A. M. Imbria) 



"CHEAP CUTS" OF STEAK 

1 tablespoon butter (or substi- 2 cups cold water 

tute) Onion 

1 heaping tablespoon flour 

Make a smooth gravy of these ingredients, put steak into 
this, pour over it a little vinegar, sprinkle with salt and peppc. 
Cut onion in small pieces, put around steak, cover, cook in 
oven 1 hour. 

LIBERTY MEAT 

3 pints cooked cornmeal % cup peanut butter 

1 cup chopped English wal- 3 tablespoons any good oil 
nuts Season to taste 

Mold and cut into slices when cold. Fry in very little 
fat. (Mrs. Robert Miller) 

BEAN LOAF 

2 cups, cold baked beans 2 teaspoons catsup 
1 egg, beaten Salt and pepper 

1 cup bread crumbs % red pepper, chopped 

1 teaspoon minced onion 

Combine ingredients and shape into a loaf. Bake % hour. 
Serve with strips of boiled bacon on top. (L. B. M.) 



(< 



LEARN TO USE THE VEGETABLE OILS." 



Use corn oil, cottonseed oil, peanut oil and olive oil 
for cooking and frying as well as in salad dressings. 

44 



BRAZILIAN TURKEY 

1 lb. dry war bread 6 tablespoons olive oil or sub- 

2 cups coarsely chopped cream stitute 

nuts 1 teaspoon sage 

1 large onion chopped fine 4 eggs 

Salt and pepper 

Moisten bread in milk, add nuts, onion, oil, sage and 
seasoning. Mix thoroughly, add 4 well beaten eggs and bake 
in well oiled dish for 2 hours. Garnish with parsley and serve. 
This is delicious served cold. (Miss Margaretta Dihm) 

HOMINY AND CHIPPED BEEF 

5 cups cooked hominy 2 cups milk 

4 potatoes 2 tablespoons vegetable fat 

2 cups cooked carrots 2 tablespoons flour or corn- 

1 teaspoon salt starch 
% lb. dried beef 

Melt the fat, add the flour, then the cold milk and stir 
until it thickens. Cut the potatoes and carrots in dice, mix 
all the materials in a baking dish, and bake for one hour. 

CAMOUFLAGE ROAST 

2 cups bread crumbs 1 small grated onion 

1 cup peanuts (ground orl teaspoon butter substitute 

pounded fine) 1 tgg 

Juice of half a lemon 1 cup milk 

A pinch of mace 1 teaspoon flour or cornstarch 

Stir flour into melted butter substitute, add milk and onion, 
and bring to a boil; add nuts and bread crumbs; remove from 
fire; add lemon juice, egg and mace. Bake in a buttered 
pudding dish till brown and serve with tomato sauce. 

CREAMED HAM 

3 tablespoons butter 1 gill cream 

3 tablespoons grated cheese Salt and Cayenne 

3 tablespoons grated ham 

Mix butter and cheese, let it melt, add ham, cream, salt 
and pepper. 



"MAKE THE NEW FOODS APPETIZING 

AND ATTRACTIVE." 

By means of garnishes, sauces and judicious seasoning 
and flavoring, the housewife can make her family vote 
themselves in favor of the new foods. Conversion in 
this case is patriotism. 

45 



ROYAL ESCALLOP 

1 cup boiled ham, chopped 1 tablespoon butter 

6 hard boiled eggs, chopped 1 tablespoon flour 
1 pint milk 

Make ot these a white sauce. Season with paprika, mix 
all together, place cracker crumbs on top, and bake one-half 
houi. (Mrs. Wesley G. Carr) 

ONION SOUP AU GRATIN 
In Casserole. 

1 qt. stock* seasoned with salt 1 full tablespoon flour 

and pepper Parmesan cheese 

1 tablespoon butter Toasted bread 

3 onions, sliced thin 

Frv onions in the butter, add flour and stock and cook 
on stove for % hour or more. Sprinkle bottom of casserole 
with Parmesan cheese, pour in stock. Sprinkle more cheese, 
then place enough pieces of bread, thoroughly toasted or 
browned in oven, to cover stock. Sprinkle more cheese on 
toast and place casserole in oven for ^ hour or more. 

(Mrs. Wesley G. Carr) 

BEEF CROQUETTES 

1 lb. beef, boiled well (minced) 1 tablespoon parsley (powdered 

1 cup (coffee cup size) cold or minced) 

beef Dash Cayenne pepper 

2 slices onion 

Let 1 pint milk, or cream, come to boiling point, then 
add a tablespoon of cold butter, then the above mixture. 

Beat up two eggs and ntix with large tablespoon of starch 
(or flour) and add to the rest. Cook it all, stirring with care 
until proper consistency. Remove from fire, spread on platter 
to cool; then m^ake into croquettes — roll in bread crumbs and 
try in wire basket — in hot fat. 

This amount makes 12 croquettes. 

(Miss Bertha Young) 

HAM MOUSSE 

2 cups cooked ham chopped V2 cup Aspic jelly, or 1 tea- 
fine spoon gelatine dissolved in 
1 teaspoon mustard % cup hot water 
J/2 teaspoon onion juice -^ cup whipped cream 

Dash red pepper 
Put on ice for 2 hours, serve cold. 

(Mrs. W. C. Carroll) 

CORNMEAL AND MEAT 

Cornmeal is good combined with meats. Such a dish Is 
a meal in itself. Try this one. 

46 



TAMALE PIE 

2 cups cornmeal 1 onion 

6 cups boiling water 2 cups tomatoes 

1 tablespoon fat 1 pound hamburger steak 

Make a mush by stirring the corn meal and IV^ teaspoons 
salt into boiling water. Cook 45 minutes. Brown onion in 
fat. add hamburger and stir until red color disappears. Add 
.salt, pepper, and tomato. A sweet pepper is an addition. 
Grease baking dish, put in layer of cornmeal mush, add sea- 
**oned meat, and cover with mush. B'ake 'one-half hoiir. Serves 
six. (Original) 

YORKSHIRE PUDDING 

1 pt. milk 2 cups flour 

4 eggs, beaten separately 1 teaspoon salt 

Note. — Be careful not to have the batter too stiff. 

^ of an hour before the roast of beef is done drain" the 
fat out of the pan, leaving just enough .to keep the batter from 
sticking. Bake ^ of an hour. This should be a golden brown. 

(Mrs. A. G. Mitchell) 



ITALIAN SPAGHETTI 

1 lb. Hamburg steak 1 good-sized onion 

1 can tomatoes 

Boil together slowly about three hours. 

1 lb. spaghetti * 3 tablespoons olive oil 

Boil spaghetti in salt water. Put olive oil into meat, etc. 
Add spaghetti. Cook a minute or two. Serve with grated 
cheese. 

BEEF OLIVES 

Have a round steak cut very thin, cut into pieces i6 or 8 
inches square. 

Make a poultry bread stuffing, put a tablespoonful on each 
piece of meat, roll and tie with strong thread. 

Fry bacon in a skillet, add in meat, and fry brown. Place 
meat in sauce pan. Make enough gravy in the skillet to cover 
meat. Pour gravy over meat . and cook slowly for 2 hours. 
A good way to use tough meat. (Mrs. S. A. Brubaker) 



MOCK SAUSAGE 

Soak one cup lima beans over night, boil until very soft, 
drain and mash, season with salt, pepper and a half a tea- 
spoonful each of powdered sage, thyme and sweet marjoram; 
make into rolls ^about the size of a finger; roll in flour and 
fry a golden brown in corn or other vegetable oil. 

47 



HOMINY AND TOMATO 

2 cups lye hominy or coarse 2 tablespoon? flour 

cracked hominy, boiled % teaspoon salt. 

1 cup canned tomatoes Few grains pepper 

2 tablespoons fat Dry bread crumbs 

Heat fat in a saucepan, stir in the flour, and then the to- 
mato, strained, salt and pepper. Combine with the hominy, 
pour into a buttered baking dish, cover with bread crumbs 
mixed with a little melted butter, and bake 30 minutes in 
a moderate oven. A tablespoon of scraped onion may . be 
added if desired. Enough for six small servings. 

(Good Housekeeping) 



'J 



TOMATO CAKES 



4 
2 
3 



egga 

cups canned tomatoes 

tablespoons shortening 



about Z cups cracker 
crumbs 
% teaspoon pepper 
2 teaspoons salt 



Beat eggs light, add tomatoes and shortening melted, pep- 
per and salt. Stir in cracker crumbs to make it stiff enough 
to drop by the tablespoon on a hot griddle. Brown on both 
sides and serve at once. (Mrs. Edward J. House) 



GREEN PEA LOAF 



egg, slightly beaten 
slice chopped onion 
Salt and pej)per to taste 



1^ cups cooked peas rubbedl 

through a sieve 1 

1^ cups bread crumbs 
1^ cups milk 

Scald the milk, add the onion, bread crumbs, peas and 
egg. Season to taste. Bake in a buttered baking dish or 
timbale molds in a moderate oven until brown — about 20 min- 
utes. Beans, mashed carrots, fish or^ corn may be used in- 
stead of peas. 



BEAN OR PEA LOAF 

^ cup dried beans or peas 1 tgg 

1^ cups milk ^ teaspoon salt 

1 chopped onion % teaspoon peppef 
ly2 cups stale bread crumbs 

Soak dried beans or peas over night; in the morning sim- 
mer until tender in the water in which they have been soaked, 
letting the water evaporate at the end of cooking, since, if 
thrown away you will lose soime of the valuable mineral mat- 
ter in the vegetable. Rub cooked beans through sieve. Scald 
milk and add finely chopped onion, bread crumbs, strained 
beans and egg. Season to taste. Fill greased baking dish two- 
thirds full or use individual molds. Bake in moderate oven 
until firm to touch (20 minutes). Serve with pimento or to- 
mato sauce. 

48 



NUT SCRAPPLE 

2 quarts boiling water 1 tablespoon salt 

2 cups cornmeal 2 cups nut meats 
1 cup hominy grits 

Cook cornmeal and hominy together in water for 20 min- 
utes. Add salt and cook until all water has absorbed. Add 
chopped nuts, and pour into greased bread pan. When cool, 
cut in slices and friy in vegetable oil. Serve either with or 
without syrup. 

MOCK TERRAPIN 

1 teaspoon mustard Butter size of an -gg 
Dash cayenne Cup water 

3 hard boiled eggs, chopped 

Season and fry brown, calves liver. When cooked hash 
fine and dust thick with flour. 

Cook a little then add liver and cook a few minutes longer. 

(Mrs. C. A. Cook) 

SHEPHERD'S PIE 

2 cups cold meat 1 large onion 

4 medium sized potatoes Pepper and salt 

Cut cold meat into small pieces. Place in dish wUh minced 
onion, seasoning to taste and barely covering with water. 
Cover and simmer on top of range for an hour. The addition 
of gravy left from a previous meal adds to the flavor, but a 
little flour thickening answers the same purpose. Twenty 
minutes before serving press the boiled potatoes through a 
ricer onto the meat and brown in the oven. Serve with pickles 
or tomato catsup. 

MINCED T.IVER WITH TOAST 

2 lbs. beef liver Pepper and salt 

1 oz. butter Toast 

Boil the liver for half an hour with salt. When done re- 
move- skin. Chop very fine. Put in frying pan and cover 
with water. Simmer gently for fifteen minutes, thicken slightly 
with flour, adding butter and seasoning. Serve on hot platter, 
garnished with parsley and triangles of toast. 

SPANISH RICE 

1 onion % cup rice 

1 pepper (mix until well % lb. cheese 

heated over fire) 1 cup solid tomatoes 

1 tablespoon fat 1 teaspoon salt 

Boil the rice, mix with tomatoes and salt, then add the 
onions, pepper and fat. Bake 20 minutes, grating cheese on 
top. 

49 



WAR MEAT SUBSTITUTE 

1 cup lentils 1 bay leaf 

I cup rice % tablespoon curry powder 

1 can tomatoes 1 tablespoon fat 

1 large onion Salt and pepper 

Soak lentils over night. Change the water and boil 
until soft. Cook rice well. Boil tomato, bay leaf, and onion 
until reduced one-half. Strain, add fat and curry powder, salt 
and pepper. Put lentils and rice in dish and mix with sauce. 
Serve very hot. (Mrs. J. J. Miller) 



MEAT LOAF 

1 lb. chopped meat (any cheap 1 cup thick white sauce 
cut) Salt and pepper 

2 cups so-ft bread crumbs (or 
less of dry ones) 

Mix ingredients thoroughly. Form into loaf. Bake in 
moderate oven 2 hours. If you use left-over meat bake only 
45 minutes. 



FOR SAUCE 

1 cup milk or stock 2 tablespoons drippings 

3^ tablespoons flour Yi teaspoon salt 



SCALLOPED BEEF OR LAMB 

1 teaspoon browned butter 

Cut cold meat in small pieces, put in baking pan. Make 
sauce from bones and gravy, 'add chopped parsley and 1 table- 
spoon Worcestershire sauce. Mix some bread crumbs with browned 
butter and sprinkle on top and bake. 



CROQUETTES WITHOUT EGGS 

1 cup finely cut meat or fish 2 teaspoons onion juice 

1 cup scalded milk % teaspoon salt 

1 tablespoon butter substitute ^ teaspoon celery salt 

2 teaspoons flour (heaping) J4 teaspoon pepper 

Cream flour and butter. Stir in milk, add seasoning and 
meat. Cook until thick. Set away in flat dish at least two 
hours. When firm form into croquettes. Roll in yolk of ^%^, 
then in bread crumbs. Fry in deep fat. 

50 



ft 



"LALLA ROOKH 

A baked dish for luncheon or dinner in which may be" 
used various left-overs to great advantage. The blending of 
several flavors improves the taste. 

Butter a casserole or any baking dish, sprinkle into it a 
layer of any finely minced pieces of beef, lamb or fish, season 
well with salt and pepper, a dash of poultry seasoning, or a 
slice of onion and parsley as preferred. Over this pour a few 
spoonsful of gravy or stock and a little grated cheese, or better 
still, macaroni cooked with cheese, or in war times, use rice 
cooked with cheese. Then a layer of tomatoes, over which 
pour more gravy or stock, topping with a layer of dry crumbs, 
dotted over with butter or fat, and bake thoroughly until all 
is bubbling and the top is nicely browned. Serve in the dish 
in which it is cooked. 

This can also be baked in ramikins and can be varied by 
the use of different condiments to suit any taste. 

(Mrs. A. M. Kingsbury) 



CORN BEEF HASH 

1 pint cooked) chopped meat 4 tablespoons butter 
^/^ pint cooked chopped po- 2 tablespoons chopped onions 
tatoes 

Turn hash and potatoes into butter and onions and mix 
thoroughly; season well. Add ^ cup water, cover land cook 
slowly ^2 hour in skillet or until brown crust hj^s formed on 
bottom. Loosen, turn over like an omelet on hot plate gar- 

• 

nished with parsley. (Mrs. Claude F. Pugh) 



RICE AND BREAD, MEAT SUBSTITUTE 

2 cups cooked rice 2 tablespoons white sauce 

2 cups bread crumbs . 1 cup chopped walnuts 

2 eggs 

Form into loaf, cover with bread crumbs and bake. 
When ready to serve, insert well into center of loaf 2 hard- 
boiled eggs, (these may be omitted) 

(Mrs. T. D. Chantler) 



DELICIOUS STUFFED PEPPERS 

Cut tops off of green peppers, par-boil until tender; fill 
with chopped meat onions, tomatoes and cracker crumbs. 
Sprinkle grated cheese over top and bake 20 minutes; have 
hot salted water in the pan and baste while cooking. 

Every particle of the pepper is eaten when cooked this 

way. (Mrs. Wm. H. Latshaw) 

51 



BAKED HAM IN MILK 

Slice of ham 1% inch, thick Brown sugar 
Mustard 

Rub ham with dry mustard. Put in pan and sprinkle brown 
sugar over" meat. Fill pan with milk. Cook slowly 1% hours. 
Serve without sauce. (Mrs. C. I. McKee) 

PORK CROQUETTE 

1 cup chopped roast pork 1 tablespoon mustard 
Yi cup mashed potatoes Nutmeg, parsley, red and 

1 tablespoon butter black pepper 

Yt. tablespoon onion juice 

Mix with cream sauce and mold. 

(Mrs. C. I. McKee) 

ROLLED STEAK AND VEGETABLES 

Ij^ lbs. lean round steak (1 slice) 1 cup peas 

1 cup diced carrots 1 onion sliced and fried 

1 cup diced turnips 1 can tomatoes 

Lay meat flat and cover with carrots, turnips, peas, and 
onion. Roll and tie. Race in pan, cover with tomato, adding 
enough water to make gravy. Bake one hour in a moderate 
oven. 



Have stews at least once a week. They can be made 
appetizing and in varied ways. Select some particular 
vegetable for the chief flavor, subordinating the others 
to it. Thicken it one week with rice, the next with 
barley, next with macaroni. 



52 



Vegetables 

POTATOES 

The free use of potatoes in the diet will save bread and 
thus save wheat. 

SPINACH WITH MUSHROOMS 

Cook spinach; chop very fine and season. Prepare the 
mushrooms arid cook until tender. Make a cream sauce. Place 
the spinach in a baking dish with mushrooms and cream sauce 
in the center. Sprinkle cracker crumbs over all. 

Put in oven for a moment and serve hot. 



POTATO CROQUETTES 



2 cups cold potatoes 
1 tablespoon chopped parsley 1 
1 teaspoon onion juice, if de- 
sired 



Yolks of 2 eggs 
teaspoon salt 



Unless cold mashed potatoes are used, 1 tablespoon butter 
and 2 of cream. 

To potatoes add yolks of eggs, butter and cream (if used) 
and juice of an onion obtained by cutting, the onion in halves 
and pressing on grater; add parsley, nutmeg (if desired) a 
sprinkling of cayenne pepper. Put on stove and cook until 
mixture leaves side of vessel. 

Form croquettes by rolling 1 tablespoon of the mixture 
in flour; to each white of egg add 1 tablespoon hot water. 
Roll croquettes in the egg and water; then bread or cracker 
crumbs. Cook in hot lard. When croquette comes to the 
top it is done. 

RICE PUFFS 

I 

1 pint cold cooked rice 1 tablespoon sugar 

1 cup milk 1 tablespoon baking powder 

3 well beaten eggs Pinch salt 

1 tablespoon melted butter / 

Flour to make,, batter stiff enough to drop from spoon. 
Fry in deep fat. Serve with Maryland sauce. 

(Mrs. S. A. Pickering) 

'stuffed egg plant 

Cut in halves lengthwise; do not pare. Bake in moderate 
oven until soft. Remove center and seas6n to taste. Have 
ready some cooked mushrooms; chop and mix with egg plant. 
Place mixture in egg plant shells, sprinkle with cracker crumbs. 
Return to oven until hot. Serve hot on garnished platter. 

Peel potatoes after cooking — ^valuable minerals and 
salts are wasted when pared raw. 

55 



BEETS WITH CREAM DRESSING 

Boil about two bunches of beets without breaking off the 
roots and leaving good piece of stem to retain color and 
sweetness. Do not prick with fork. 

Peel, cut in squares, sprinkle with a little flour and pour 
over the following in order given: 

1 tablespoon vinegar Pepper 

1 tablespoon sugar % cup cream 

1 tablespoon salt 

Sugar is important as it prevents curdling of cream. 

(Mrs. W. H. R. Hilliard) 

HOMINY CROQUETTES 

1 cup hominy grits 1 egg 

3 cups boiling salted water 1 cup white sauce 

Boil hominy in water 5 minutes, then put in double boiler 
and cook for 2 hours. Add egg well beaten to white sauce. 
Form into croquettes; roll in egg and bread crumbs and fry 
in deep fat. This makes 12 croquettes. 

(Mrs. Joseph Burt; 

VEGETABLE SOUFFLE 

^ cup butter 1 cup cooked vegetables (car- 

%' cup flour rots, turnips or onions) 

% cup cream rubbed through sieve 

% cup stock 3 eggs, yolks and whites 

Salt and pepper 

Melt butter, add flour and pour in gradually cream and 
water. Add vegetables, yolks of eggs beaten till thick and 
fold in whites beaten stiff. Add seasonings. Bake slowly in 
buttered baking dish. (Lyda Hanna Findley) • 

BAKED CABBAGE 

3 heads cabbage 1 teaspoon dry mustard 

1 tablespoon flour ^ cup cold water 

l^^ teaspoons salt 6 slices thin bacon 
Paprika to taste 

Shre'd or chop cabbage; stir into it flour, salt, paprika, 
water. Mix thoroughly. Put in baking dish or casserole. Lay 
over top the bacon, cover tightly, bake in hot oven about an 
hour with cover on. Remove cover for few minutes until 
brown. (Mrs. T. J. Gillespie) 



When cooking cauliflower do not discard tender 
leaves or stalk. Cut leaves in two, pare and slice the 
stock; cook with cauliflower; save these with the water 
in which they are cooked, and use next day for soup. 

5j 



BAKED EGG PLANT 

] egg plant 3 hard-boiled eggs, chopped 

^ cup butter fine 

Equal parts bread crumbs Salt and pepper 

and egg plant y2 cup butter 

Pare egg plant, cut in quarters and boil in water without 
salt until tender. Drain and wash, seasoning well. Mix with 
other ingredients chopped fine,, put in baking dish, cover with 
bread crumbs that have been rubbed in melted butter. Bake 
until tender, about % hour. 



STUFFED EGG PLANT 

Cut lengthwise 1 egg plant; take out inside meat and grind 
through a meat grinder. 

3 or 4 slices bread A little butter 

Salt and pepper 

Mix all together, fill skins and place in a pan with a little 
hot water. Bake 1 hour. (Mrs. R. P. McChesney) 



BAKED HOMINY 

Cook coarse hominy in a double boiler about half a day. 
Put in baking dish and bake as for macaroni au gratin. Make 
white sauce in which cheese has been melted: pour this over 
hominy, put grated cheese and buttered bread crumbs on top 
and bake. (Mrs. Wm. H. Siviter) 



SWEET FRIED CABBAGE 

Cut cabbage -as for cold slaw. Pour boiling water over 
it; let stand a few minutes; strain. Place in skillet some frying 
fat, then the cabbage. Cover and let steam % hour. 

Make a sauce of 1 tablespoon fat, 1 tablespoon brown 
sugar, 2 tablespoons vinegar. Sprinkle some flour, salt and 
pepper over cabbage. Pour over this the sauce, cover, let 
steam 10 minutes, adding a little water if necessary. 



CORN FRITTERS 

To 1 cup grated corn, add 1 well beaten egg, 1 heaping 
tablespoon flour, 1 level teaspoon salt. Mix thoroughly and 
fry in butter and lard in proportions of one to three, until light 
brown on both sides. 

When fresh corn is not in season, Cornlet makes a fair 
substitute. (Mrs. J. C. Anderson) 

57 



BAKED BERMUDA ONIONS 

5 Bermuda onions; boil in salted water about an hour; 
when cool, cut in half, remove part of center, chop, mix with 
salt and pepper and a little chopped boiled ham; add the 
beaten yolk of an egg, 2 tablespoons cream and fill onions 
with the mixture; bake slowly and before serving pour over 
onions a cream sauce. (Mrs. C. R. Peddle) 



GREEN CORN FRITTERS 

8 ears green corn; score grain with sharp knife and press 
from husk with the bluut edge of a silver knife: add salt, 1 
teaspoon melted butter and 1. egg, white and yolk beaten to- 
gether. Drop by teaspoon on greased griddle and brown. 
Do not use any flour. (Mrs. C. R. Peddle) 

PARSNIP FRITTERS 

Parsnips About 3 tablespoons flour (or 

2 well beaten eggs until batter drops from 

1 teaspoon salt spoon) 

1 cup milk 

Either grate the raw parsnips on a coarse grater, or boil 
until tender and rub fine, having taken out the heart before 
cooking. 

. Make a batter of the eggs, salt, milk and flour; beat the 
parsnips into this and fry in deep fat. 

(Mrs. T., Meadville) 

DUTCH POTATO CAKES 

6 good sized potatoes 1 teaspoon salt 

2 eggs 

Peel and grate potatoes, stir in eggs and salt. Pour into 
a hot, well-buttered ^spider. Turn and brown again. Make into 
small cakes. (L.B.M.) 

SPINACH MOULD 

Yi peck spinach boiled in salt 1 egg, beaten 

water, drained and chopped, Salt and pepper to taste 

or Juice of 1 lemon squeezed 

1 can spinach drained and into beaten ^^^ 

chopped % cup milk 

1 tablespoon flour; browned 

' Mix all ingredients together, adding milk just before put- 
ting into oven. Butter mould; set in pan of water and bake V2, 
hour. 

58 



MACARONI 

Yi lb. macaroni Yolk of egg 

Pinch of mace Butter, size of walnut 

Yi cup cream Pinch of salt 

1 teaspoon flour Grated cheese 

Boil the macaroni ^ hour in water in which has been 
added mace and salt. Have ready a sauce made of the other 
ingredients; put macaroni in baking dish. Pour sauce over 
it; grate cheese on top and brown in oven. 

(Dr. Green, Meadville) 

STUFFED ONIONS 

Onions Bread crumbs 

Hard boiled eggs Bacon 

Salt and pepper 

Parboil onions, remove insides, chop the insides of onions 
with hard boiled eggs, salt and pepper. Fill the shells, pour 
into each about a teaspoon of any soup stock. Bread crumbs 
on top. Place in a shallow pan with a little water in bottom. 
A piece of bacon on top of each onion adds to the flavor. 
Bake until onions are tender. (Mrs. Walter *C. Carroll) 

STEWED MUSHROOMS 

1 qt. mushrooms Butter size of an egg 

Enough rich cream or milk Pepper and salt 
to float mushrooms Flour enough to thicken milk 

Carefully pick over mushrooms and skin. Boil in water 
10 minutes; pour off the liquor; add sauce made of the other 
ingredients. Let all boil for a few minutes and serve on toast. 

Always cook mushrooms with a silver spoon. If not the 
true article the silver will tarnish. 

(Mrs. M. C. Thorp, Meadville) 



Always have baked vegetables (potatoes, tomatoes, 
macaroni, onions) when using the oven for roast meats. 
String beans, lima beans, beets and many other 
vegetables can be baked — ^with water to cover — ^in cas- 
seroles or covered pans. If onions are not included, a 
baked dessert can also be planned — apples, cottage pud- 
ding, custard, tapioca, etc. 



59 



Cheese 



MACARONI, CHEESE AND TOMATO 

4 oz. elbow macaroni % cup grated cheese 

1 small can tomato soup 1 large tablespoon butter 

Wash macaroni in cold water and put in double boiler, 
cover with hot water, let steam 20 minutes. Pour off this 
water, replace in boiler with % cup hot water and cook till 
tender. When nearly cooked, add cheese and butter to the 
tomato soup which has been heated in a separate sauce pan. 
When about to serve, pour tomato sauce over macaroni, toss 
lightly. . Be sure the sauce is sufficiently seasoned with salt 
and pepper. Serve very hot. 

(Mrs. John A. Murtland) 

CREOLE MACARONI 

4 oz. macaroni 2 onions 

Yt. can tomatoes Ham or bacon 

Wash macaroni, place in double boiler and steam until ten- 
der, with onions an.d salt to taste. (Sufficient water will re- 
main on macaroni to steam). 

When half cooked, add the Vz can of tomatoes and any 
pieces of fried ham or bacon that may have been left over from 
previous meals. Cut in dice. Be sure it is juicy. Do not allow 
the macaroni to cook until it is very soft. Season to taste. 

WAR FRENCH FRIED POTATOES 

First: Scrub the potatoes well. When peeling potatoes 
save the peels, put in cold water over night. Change water in 
the morning and treat as you would French fried potatoes. 
Drop in deep fat. These are delicious. 

(Mrs. E. S. Hulse) 

ONIONS ON TOAST 

Cut young onions a good length. Cook till tender. Serve 
on toast, with either butter or cream dressing. 

CHEESE SOUFFLE 

2 cups cheese finely crumbled 2 eggs 

2 cups bread crumbs Salt and pepper 

2 cups milk 1 tablespoon melted butter 

Heat milk in double boiler. Put into it the cheese and 
bread crumbs and place where it will keep hot until the cheese 
is melted. Add seasonings, beaten eggs and butter. Bake in 
a buttered dish about half hour. 

(Miss Anna Dake McCague) 

61 



ENGLISH MONKEY 

1 cup bread crumbs soaked in 1 egg, yolk 
milk 20 minutes 1 tablespoon butter 

1 cup cheese, cut fine 

Add egg to crumbs and milk. Melt butter in skillet and 
add cheese, and when melted smooth, add the bread crumbs, 
and stir. If too thick, add niore milk. Serve on crisp salted 
crackers, or thin toast. Nice to serve with afternoon tea. 

(Mrs. Herbert Byram) 

BREAD AND CHEESE 

6 slices bread, buttered and 1 teaspoon salt 

diced % teaspoon mustard 

Cheese grated vSpeck Cayenne 

2 cups milk 3 beaten eggs 

Alternate bread and cheese in baking dish, beginning with 
bread and ending with cheese. 

Pour over top 1 cupful of milk and let stand half hour or 
more. 

In 1 cupful milk mix the other ingredients. Pour over top 
just before baking. 
Bake 20 minutes. 

(Mrs. Walter C. Carroll) 

BAKED HOMINY AND CHEESE 

1 tablespoon shortening (ba- Use either 1 cup or 5/2 cup 

con fat or lard) cheese (according to 

1 tablespoon corn starch cheese) 

I cup milk 2 cups cooked hominy 

Salt % cup bread crumbs 

Make sauce of shortening, salt, corn starch and milk, add 
cheese and hominy. Place in dish, cover with crumbs, bake 
until brown. 

(Mrs. D. M. Buck) 

BAKED RICE AU GRATIN 

Rice Grated cheese 

1 cup beef stock 

Take well cooked rice, put into baking dish and cover en- 
tirely with beef stock, sprinkle with grated cheese and leave in 
moderate oven until well browned. 

(Miss Addah Gerdes) 

CHEESE ON TOAST 

1 tablespoon butter 1 cup gloated cheese 

1 tablespoon flour J^ teaspoon salt 

1 cup milk % teaspoon pepper 

Cook and serve on toast. (Mrs. A. G. Mitchell) 

62 



Salads 



FRUIT GELATINE SALAD 

1 envelope Knox granulated 5 slices cut pineapple 

gelatine 2 oranges 
1 cup cold water Yz grape fruit 

Juice from can of pineapple 1 lb. seeded and skinned 
Y^ cup sugar green grapes 

Dissolve gelatine in cold water, add enough water to pine- 
apple juice to make 1 pt. juice. Boil juice with sugar, add 
gelatine, set away to cool. When it begins to stiffen add pulp 
of pineapple, oranges, grapefruit and grapes. Turn into ring 
mold. Serve with lettuce and oil mayonnaise, 

(Mrs. Claude F. Pugh) 

FROZEN TOMATO JELLY 

1 can tomatoes Mayonnaise 

Salt Whipped cream or whites of 

Some stalks of celery 2 eggs beaten stiff 
Onion 

Boil tomatoes, celery, onion, salt together, strain and cool. 
Put into freezer. When the consistency of water-ice, fold ni 
a little mayonnaise into which you have first added cream or 
eggs. Put into mould and freeze. 

(Mrs. T. D. Chantler) 

FROZEN FRUIT SALAD 

Sections of grape fruit, orange, canned peaches, pineapple 
and any other fruits desired. Sweet fruits prepared, also mar- 
aschino cherries. Mix with mayonnaise, that has been mixed 
half and half with very stiff whipped cream. Put in mould 
and pack in ice and rock salt for two hours, or more. 

(Louise M. Packard) 

TOMATO JELLY SALAD 

Strain liquor from can of tomatoes (about 2 cups). 

3 cloves 1 teaspoon salt 

1 Bay leaf 1 teaspoon sugar 

Yi teaspoon thyme % teaspoon pepper 

J4 teaspoon onion juice 

boil five minutes, strain. 

Add ^ oz. gelatine that has been soaked in Y^ cup of 
water. Strain again and pour into individual molds. This 
salad is delicious if celery and olives are added when gelatine 
is partlv stiff. 

(Mrs. Walter C. Carroll) 

64 



APPLE AND DATE SALAD 

4 apples Vi. cup chopped English wal- 

12 dates nuts 

Mayonnaise 

Cut apples and dates in small pieces, mix with oil mayon- 
naise, sprinkle nuts on top. Serve on lettuce. This amount 
will serve six. 

H (Mrs. G. K. Grubbs) 

GRAPEFRUIT, ORANGE AND NUT SALAb 

Arrange sections of grapefruit and oranges like the petals 
of a flower, on a round dish, covered with lettuce. In the cen- 
ter put English walnuts meats that have been broken in quar- 
ters. Pour over a little French dressing, to which has been 
added a little sugar and tomato catsup. 

PINEAPPLE SALAD WITH GOLDEN DRESSING 

6 slices of canned pineapple Cream or Neuschatel cheese 

6 large Maraschino cherries Lettlice heart 

Arrange the salad individually; place a slice of piineapple 
on each nest of lettuce leaves. Sprinkle with cheese which has 
been put through a potato ricer, and fill the hole in the pine-, 
apple slices with cherries. 

Serve with golden dressing. 

GOLDEN DRESSING 

^ cup pineapple juice 2 eggs 

54 cup orange juice Yi cup sugar 

54 cup lemon juice % cup heavy cream 

Heat the fruit juices in double boiler. Beat eggs light, 
gradually adding sugar; combine wiith the hot juice and cook 
to the consistency of custard. Remove to a dish of cold water; 
beat until cool and then fold in cream whipped stiff. The 
aressing may be made beforehand, and the whipped cream 
added just before serving. This dressing is suitable to serve 
with almost any fruit salad. 

PERFECTION SALAD 

1 envelope gelatine Vz cup sugar 

Yz cup cold water 1 cup finely chopped cabbage 

Vz cup mild vinegar 2 cups celery cut in small 

1 pt. boiling water pieces > 

1 teaspoon salt 54- can pimentos, chopped 
Juice of 1 lemon 

Soak gelatine in cold water 5 minutes, add vinegar, lemon 
juice, sugar, salt, boiling water. When beginning to set add 
chopped vegetables. When cold serve on lettuce with mayon- 
naise. 

Use any left over fruit gelatine by cutting into cubes 
and addijig to fruit salad. 

65 



FROZEN FRUIT SALAD 

Canned pineapple Oranges 

Cherries Tangerines 

Marrons Grape fruit 
Bananas 

Cut in very small cubes. Mix with dressing and put in 
mould. Pack in equal parts of ice and salt for two hours. 

DRESSING 

Melt 1 tablespoon butter, add yolks of 2 well beaten eggs. 

35^ tablespoons flo.ur Few grains cayenne 

3 tablespoons sugar % cup milk 

V^ teaspoon paprika % cup cider vinegar 

Boil until thick. When ready to mould, add 1 cup whipped 
cream for each % cup of dressing and 1 cup fruit. 

(Mrs. R. P. McChesney) 

POTATO SALAD 

Cut cold boiled potatoes into small pieces. Place in a 
deep dish alternate layer of potato, chopped onion, celery and 
hard boiled eggs. Pour over this the hot dressing and mix 
thoroughly. 

DRESSING 

To yi cup vinegar, add % teaspoon mustard, 2 tablespoons 
flour, a little salt, lump of butter and cup of milk. Boil, stir- 
ring constantly until a thick custard. 

(Mrs. W. C. Anderson) 

SALAD MODERNE 

Peel and cut 4 apples (Julienne) and prepare 2 stalks of 
celery in same manner, % apple to % celery; season with 
mixture salt, pepper and. paprika; mix thoroughly with two 
spoons light mayonnaise, and serve in a cut-out apple with a 
sprinkle of chopped nuts on top. (Hotel Astor) 

SALAD MIAMI 

Garnish all around a heart of lettuce with slices of grape 
fruit and oranges and small quarters of tomato, cut in fancy 
shapes; in the middle of a heart put a Julienne of cut celery 
and apples; on top place a small bouquet of watercress; decor- 
ate all around dish on outside and on top with pieces of 
apples cut regularly with fancy vegetable cutter. Serve with 
French dressing separately. (Ritz-Carlton Hotel) 



Use gelatine often, in desserts and salads. Use it 
with scraps of meat and soup stock and make aspic loaf 
for luncheon. 



66 



ASPARAGUS SALAD 

Use a French drejsing and sprinkle picklelily over the as- 
paragus. 

KING SALAD 

Arrange slices of tomatoes on a bed of lettuce (shredded). 
On half slices pile chopped celery, on the other half of the 
slices pile finely chopped watercress. Garnish with ribbons 
or green pepper and serve with French dressing. 

PINEAPPLE AND MARSHMELLOW SALAD 

1 large can pineapple 1 pint whipping cream 
8 large slices Juice 1 lemon 

% lb. soft marshmellows 1 level teaspoon salt 

y2 teaspoon paprika 

Cut marshmellows in quarters and the pineapple in same 
size pieces, put in bowl and pour over juice from pineapple. 
Let stand in ice chest two hours. Near serving time — whip 
cream, add salt, paprika and lemon juice, mix well. Put 
lettuce on salad plates, drain pineapple and marshmellows, put 
large spoonful on lettuce, then cover with large spoonful 
whipped cream dressing. This will serve nine persons. 

(Mrs. D. L. Gillespie) 

OYSTER SALAD 

12 large oysters 1 cup celery 

1 cup cold chicken or turkey 

Scald oysters in their liquor. When ruffled, pour into a 
colander to drain. When quite cold, cut them in small pieces 
and mix with the chicken and celery. 

DRESSING 

3 hard boiled eggs 2 tablespoons good vinegar 

2 tablespoons mustard Pepper and salt to taste 
1 tablespoon butter 

Pour over oysters just before using. 

(Mrs. E. R. L., Meadville) 

TOMATO SALAD 

Whole tomatoes Celery 

Boiled chestnuts Olives 

Remove center of tomatoes, fill with chopped chestnuts, 
celery and olives mixed with French dressing. Put a bit of 
mayonnaise on top. 



To keep lettuce fresh: Wash without separating 
head, place in tightly covered bowl and put in refriger- 
ator. Early cabbage can be kept the same way — good 
for days. 

67 



SUMMER SALAD 

2 tablespoons granulated gela- I can shredded pineapple 

tine soaked in ^ cup water Juice of 1 lemon 

2 large cucumbers 

Grind cucumbers. Drain juice from cucumbers and pine- 
apple. Heat with lemon juice and pour over gelatine. When 
cold, add cucumber and pineapple pulp. Put in individual 
molds and serve with mayonnaise. 

(Mrs. C. R. Peddle) 

POTATO SALAD 

Use five medium sized fresh boiled potatoes. Slice them 
and pour over them 

1 tablespoon vinegar 1 teaspoon salt and a dash or 

1 tablespoon oHve oil two of pepper 

Add mayonnaise dressing and garnish with large green 
olives. 

APPLE SURPRISE 

Make a hole about 1% inches wide at top of a red apple 
and scoop out apple up to the skin. Fill with a salad made of 
apple, celery, ham and chicken cut up in dice and mixed with 
mayonnaise seasoned with paprika. Put on cover and serve 
on watercress. (Biltmore Hotel) 

PINEAPPLE SALAD 

1 fresh pineapple Spanish pimentos 
Celery 

Cut top of pineapple, scoop out fruit, leaving shell. To 
two cups of pineapple meat add 1 cup celery and mix with 
cream mayonnaise. Fill shell with fruit salad, lay on its side 
on the platter. Sprinkle over top of the salad finely chopped 
Spanish pimentos. Garnish with small lettuce leaves and 
strawberries, cherries, or fresh currants. Place top of pine- 
apple on one side of platter. Any combination of fruit may 
be used with the pineapple. A wide ribbon tied around pine- 
apple with how sticking up as the shell lays on the platter 
adds much to the attractiveness of the dish. 

GINGER ALE AND FRUIT SALAD 

2 tablespoons gelatine 1 apple 

2 tablespoons cold water Shredded pineapple 

% cup boiling water Celery 

1 cup ginger ale Preserved ginger 

2 tablespoons sugar 1 lemon 
A little salt 

Make a jelly using the gelatine soaked in the cold water, 
and dissolved in the boiling water; add the ginger ale, sugar, 
salt and juice of one lemon. When jelly begins to set fold 
in apples pared, cored and cut in thin slices; celery and pre- 
served ginger. Cut in small pieces; add the shredded pine- 
apple, turn into small moulds and chill. Serve on lettuce with 
cream mayonnaise. (Mrs. Frederic I. Merrick) 

68 



Accessories for Salads 



CHEESE ROLLS 

3 cakes Philadelphia cream 1 tablespoon Worchestershire 
cheese sauce 

1 cake Snappy cheese Butter size of walnut 

^ doz. stuffed olives % teaspoon soda in a table- 
A few chives spoon of water 

A little parsley Paprika 

% lb. unsalted pecans 

Mix cheese and butter thoroughly, — add chopped olives, 
parsley, chives and other ingredients. Roll in chopped nuts. 
Serve with toasted crackers. 

CORNMEAL CRISP (Salad Wafers) 

^ cup cornmeal 1 tablespoon fat . 

^ cup wheat flour 3 tablespoons milk 

% teaspoon salt 

Mix cornmeal, flour and salt, then add fat and milk. Roll 
this and cut into small wafers. Bake in hot oven. 

CHEESE BALLS 

One and one-half cups grated cheese, white of one egg, 
pinch of salt, dash of red pepper. 

Mix well, roll into small balls, put in ice box for one hour 
or more and fry in deep fat. 

(Mrs. William Maclay Hall) 

CORN STICKS 

2 cups cornmeal 2 heaping teaspoons Royal 
1/^ cups milk baking powder 

Pinch of salt 

Bake in corn stick irons for 30 minutes. Grease irons well 
with Crisco. (Mrs. S. R. Gallagher) 

CHEESE WAFERS 

2 oz. grated cheese 1 yolk of egg 

2 oz. flour Little Cayenne pepper and 

2 oz. butter salt. 
Few drops lemon juice 

First, cream cheese, flour and butter; add rest of recipe, 
work and roll out on board in plenty of flour. Cut in shapes. 

(Miss Lillian G. Dermitt) 
71 



i 



z*"^ 



Sauces 



Especial attention must be given to seasoning of dishes 
which have as their foundation beans, rice, or other foods 
having little flavor of their own. 

Use peppers, onions, garlic, leek, celery, catsup, Worcester- 
shire sauce, etc., for increasing flavor. Bean and nut loaves 
should be served with highly seasoned sauces. 

ITALIAN TOMATO SAUCE 

2 cups cooked tomatoes Yi. cup cut green peppers 

Vz cup finely cut onion 4 tablespoons butter substitute 
Yi cup grated or cut carrot or vegetable drippings 

Vz cup grated or cut turnip 2 tables]2pons flour 

2 teaspoons salt 

Cook vegetables (except tomato) in the fat until tender. 
Add tomato and salt, cook 5 minutes. Put through strainer, 
return to fire, add flour mixed with 2 tablespoons cold water, 
boil 5 minutes. 

(U. S. Food Administration) 

PIMENTO SAUCE 

Force canned pimento through a strainer. Add Vi cup 
of this puree to 1 cup of white sauce. 

BROWN NUT SAUCE 

2 tablespoons drippings or lJ/2 cups meat or vegetable stock 

vegetable oil or milk 

2 tablespoons peanut butter Vz teaspoon salt 

TiVz tablespoons flour Few grains pepper 

Brown the fat, add peanut butter and when well mixed 
add flour and continue browning. Pour in the stock gradually, 
stirring constantly. Bring to the boiling point and add salt 
and pepper. (U. S. Food Administration) 

MOCK HOLLANDAISE SAUCE 

2 tablespoons "butter Y^ teaspoon pepper 
2 tablespoons flour Few grains cayenne pepper 

Yi. cup milk 2 eggs, yolks 

^/z teaspoon salt 1 tablespoon lemon juice 

Mix the butter with flour until well blended. Add milk 
and seasonings. ' Bring to boiling point. Stir in yolks beaten 
add. butter, bit by bit, and lemon. 

76 



MUSTARD SAUCE A LA PLAZA HOTEL 

Take ^ teaspoon mustard, rub into tablespoon butter, and 
stir into hot Hollandaise sauce, highly seasoned. A good 
sauce for fish. 

NUTMEG SAUCE 

Serve with brown pudding. 

3 cups water 1 grated nutmeg, sweeten to 

1 tablespoon butter taste 

Thicken with the cornstarch dissolved in water. Cook 
until it thickens. 

CORNSTARCH SAUCE 

One tablespoon cornstarch and add boiling water until 
thick. Sweeten with maple sugar, a little butter, nutmeg and 
brandy, and boil a few minutes. 

HARD SAUCE 

1 cup powdered sugar 1 egg well beaten 

^ cup butter 

Cream butter and sugar. Add egg and vanilla and before 
serving, grate a little orange peel over the top. 

(Mrs. Claude F. Pugh) 

COTTAGE PUDDING SAUCE 

^ cup sugar 1 nutmeg and a small handful 

White of 2 eggs beaten of flour, stir like starch and 

% cup butter boil in double boiler 



1 pint of water 



(Mrs. Mortimer C. Miller) 



GOLDEN SAtJCE 



Two tablespoons butter beaten to a cream, to which add 
% cup powdered sugar. Add the unbeaten yolks of 2 eggs 
and 2 tablespoons sherry wine. Have the whites of eggs beaten 
stiff and stir into mixture. Set bowl in a pan of boiling water 
and stir for 5 minutes. Serve at once 

(Miss Emma B. Suydam) 

VANILLA SAUCE 

Whites of 2 eggs Yolk of 1 egg 

Yi cup pulverized sugar 2 tablespoons milk 

Vanilla to taste 1 tablespoon cream 

Beat whites of eggs very stiff. Add pulverized sugar, beat 
well, then add yolk of egg, milk and cream. Serve immedi- 
ately. 

77 



MARYLAND SAUCE (See Rice Puffs) 

% cup fruit juice 2 tablespoons butter or substi- 

4 tablespoons brown sugar stute 

Yolks of 2 eggs 

Cream butter and sugar together, add well beaten yolks, 
add the fruit juice. • Cook in double boiler until desired con- 
sistency. 

CREAM SAUCE WITH CttEESE 

Make a white sauce and when cooked, stir in grated cheese. 
Excellent for rice croquettes. 

SAUCE FOR BEETS 

1 tablespoon butter 1 tablespoon vinegar 

1 tablespoon sugar 1 cup water 

1 tablespoon flour 

Boil beets cut in dice, then boil in sauce for 15 minutes. 

(Mrs. H. A. Ross) 

WHITE SAUCE 

2 tablespoons butter or substi- 1 cup scalded milk or cream 
stute % teaspoon salt 

\y2 tablespoons flour Few grains pepper 

Put butter in sauce pan, stir until melted and bubbling. 
Add flour mixed with seasonings, and stir until thoroughly 
blended. Pour on gradually the milk, adding about % at a 
time, stirring until well mixed, then beating until smooth and 
glossy. 



78 



Sandwiches 



UNEEDA BISCUIT CLUB SANDWICH 

Butter Uneeda Biscuit, put in a slice of fried bacon, 
a slice of onion and a very thin slice of tomato, also a little 
prepared mustard if desired. Very tasty. 



TOASTED GRAHAM SANDWICHES 

Mix Philadelphia cream cheese, with ground nuts, spread 
between buttered graham bread, toast quickly in hot oven. 

(Lillian G. Dermitt.) 



NORWEGIAN SANDWICHES 

% cup mayonnaise 2 teaspoons of anchovy paste 

3 hard boiled eggs Rye bread 

Chopped fine 

Rose sandwiches served with Ginger Punch (see beve- 
rages). The bread is spread lightly with butter, then with 
cream cheese, and crushed raspberries. 



DELICIOUS SANDWICHES 

Have round slices cut from graham bread and in top 
slice of each sandwich have a hole the size of a quarter into 
which lay half an English walnut. 

Filling — 'Mix a little olive oil with white cream cheese 
and then add some chopped stuffed olives and walnuts. 

(Mrs. T. D. Chantler.) 



CELERY SANDWICHES. 

1 cup finely shredded celery ^' cup chopped olives 
54 cup finely chopped nuts 

Mix together, moisten with mayonnaise and spread be- 
tween thin slices of brown bread. 



CINNAMON TOAST 

Toast bread, spread thickly with butter; add sugar jamd 
ground cinnamon mixed together and put in hot oven until 
sugar melts. 

80 



DATE SANDWICHES 

For filling: 
1 lb. dates, cut small % cup water 

% cup sugar 

Boil to paste and cool 

^ cup brown sugar 2 cups rolled oats or flour to 

% cup butter make stiff dough 

% cup lard or Crisco 2 teaspoons baking powder 

y^ cup milk Vz teaspoon salt 

•Roll the dough out thin; spread half of it with filling mix- 
ture; place another layer of dough on top; cut in strips about 
Ij^ by 4 inches and bake. 

(Miss Anna Dake McCague) 

SANDWICHES 

Any sandwiches that are dry except those made with 
fresh lettuce or tomatoes, are delicious if toasted and served 
hot. 

PEPPER HASH SANDWICHES (refer to pickles) 

Drain vinegar from pickles. Spread between thin slices 
of buttered bread. 



BEAN SANDWICHES 

Baked beans mashed to a paste, add mustard, a few drops 
of vinegar and finely chopped celery leaves. Excellent served 
between slices of brown or white bread. 

Beans may be mixed with mayonnaise. 

CHEESE DREAMS 

Work together 1 cup grated yellow cheese and % cup 
Philadelphia cream cheese — with paprika to taste — to a smooth 
paste. Put between slices of bread cut in rounds or any 
fancy shape and sautes in butter or butter substitute. Serve 
immediately with salad. Are very good toasted. 

(Mrs. S. B. McCormick) 

NUT AND CHEESE LOAF. 

• 2 large squares of Philadelphia cream cheese — chop con- 
served fruits and nuts, ' mix all together, mould in loaf, roll 
in ground nuts. Cut in slices and serve with salad. 



Save all good wrapping paper, twine, paper boxes and 
paper bags. Keep them for use in a convenient place. 

81 



SANDWICH FILLINGS 

1 cup cold roast chicken 1 tablespoon of capers 

6 olives 1 pickle 

Mince very fine and" mix with mayonnaise. 
Cold roast chicken and finely shaved celery mixed with 
mayonnaise. 

Caviare mixed with lemon juice, grated onion and pap- 
rika. Use rye bread. 

Cucumber, grated onion and mayonnaise. 

Dutch cheese and finely chopped water cress. 

Dates chopped very fine, with one half the quantity of 
English walnuts, or pecans. 

Cream cheese and Bar Le Due mixed to a paste. 

Orange marmalade and English walnut meats chopped. 

Raisins chopped fine and worked to paste with sherry. 

Sardines made to a paste with lemon juice. 

Grind green and red peppers and hard boiled eggs, mince 
with mayonnaise. 

TUNA FISH 

Take canned tuna fish, add capers or chopped pickle, mix 
with mayonnaise and use as filling for sandwiches. 

(Miss Addah Gerdes.) 



82 



Cakes 



FRENCH ARMY CAKES 
as made in France 

Boil 5 minutes the following: 

2 cups brown sugar 1 teaspoon salt 

2 cups hot water 1 box raisins 

2 tablespoons shortening 

Cool, and add the following: 

1 teaspoon cloves 3 cups flour (or 2 cups wheat 

1 teaspoon cinnamon flour and 1 cup graham flour) 

Grated nutmeg 1 teaspoon soda in a teaspoon 

hot water 

Bake in slow oven for about 1 hour. Use a pan with 
center spout. This cake is better if not cut when fresh. 

(Mrs. A. W. McEldowney.) 

TEA CAKE 

1 large tablespoon butter or ^ cup sugar 
Crisco % cup milk 

2 eggs 1% teaspoons Royal baking pow- 
2 cups flour der 

Mix in the order given. Beat whites of eggs separately 
and put in last of all. Measure the flour after sifting and use 
just two even cups. Put in two cake pans and put small 
pieces of butter on top and sprinkle sugar and cinnamon 
over all. Bake in fairly hot oven. 

(Mrs. H. A. Ross.) 

ROSS LUNCH CAKE— WAR CAKE 

Boil together for about 4 or 5 minutes: 

1 cup raisins ^ cup lard 

1 cup currants 1 teaspoon cinnamon 

1 cup water 1 teaspoon cloves 

1 cup sugar 1 teaspoon nutmeg 

Let this cool. 

Mix — 1 cup chopped English walnut meats into 2 cups 
flour; 2 teaspoons baking powder and 1 level teaspoon bak- 
ing soda. Mix all together and bake in a moderate oven. 

(Mrs. H. A. Ross.) 



"USE OTHER FATS IN PLACE OF BUTTER 

AND LARD." 

Cfaicken fat makes good pastry. Solidified vegetable 
oils are valuable. Oleomargarine may often be used. 
Drippings and bacon fat are worth their weight in gold. 
Use these and any other substitutes. 

84 



"PRINCE OF WALES CAKE" 

% cup butter 1 teaspoon ground clover 
1 cup brown sugar % teaspoon alspice 

1 cup sour milk 2 tablespoons N. O. molasses 

2 eggs 2 cups flour 

1 teaspoon soda 1 cup chopped raisins added 

1 teaspoon vanilla last 

1 teaspoon cinnamon 

(All measurements level) 

(Mrs. T. D. Chantler) 

WAR CHOCOLATE LAYER CAKE 

Cake 

1% cups of the. clear white 3 cups of white or mixed flour 

Karo syrup 3 even teaspoons of baking 

^^ cup of Cnsco powder 

3 eggs ^ cup of cocoa to the batter 
1 cup of milk may be added 

The flour used can be part white flour, with whole wheat, 
rye, or rice flour added in equal portions. One egg white 
can be retained for icing if desired. 

Chocolate Between Layers 

^ cup of Baker's cocoa Small piece of butter or 

1 cup of white Karo syrup Crisco 

^ cup sugar Vanilla to flavor or not, as 

desired 

Small piede of butter or Crisco Vanilla to flavor or not, 
as desired. 

('Mrs. Albert Kingsbury.) 

DATE TEA CAKE 

1 lb. chopped dates 1 cup rice flour 

1 lb. English walnuts 2 teaspoons baking powder 

1 cup sugar (brown or maple) ^ teaspoon salt 

Yolks and whites of 4 eggs beaten separately, then to- 
gether, mix all together. Bake in small bread pan, in mod- 
erate oven. 

(Mrs. William Thaw, Jr.) 

NUT CAKE 

14 lb. almonds 1 teaspoon vanilla » 

J4 lb. English walnuts 9 or 10 eggs 

V2 lb. granulated sugar 

Beat the sugar and egg yolks together for ^ hour (this 
is the most important part of the cake). Add the nuts rolled 
very fine; then the whites of eggs beaten stiff. Pour into but- 
tered cake tins and bake ^ hour. 

(Mrs. C. A. Rook) 

85 



CHOCOLATE MOLASSES CAKE 

% cup molasses % teaspoon soda 

Ye cup boiling water •% teaspoon cinnamon 

1 tablespoon shortening % teaspoon salt 

^ cup flour 1 % squares melted chocolate 

% cup cornflour % teaspoon vanilla 

Mix molasses, water and shortening. Mix and sift flour, 

corn flour, soda, cinnamon and salt; add to first mixture with 

chocolate and vanilla. Beat thoroughly, and bake in small 

greased muffin pans. 

INEXPENSIVE CHOCOLATE CAKE 

* 

1 egg yolk 1 cup sweet milk 

1 cup sugar 1 tablespoon butter 

\y2 cups flour * 4 small or 2 large squares un- 

1 teaspoon soda sweetened chocolate 

Cream egg and sugar; add milk with soda dissolved in it, 
then flour, and lastly, the chocolate and butter melted together. 
Easily made. 

(Mrs. D. M. Buck) 

WHITE LOAF CAKE— Bake in Tube Pan 

« 

1% cups sugar ^ cup milk 

^ cup butter cream together 3 cups sifted flour 

2 teaspoons Royal baking 
Pinch salt powder 

3 well beaten eggs 1}4 teaspoon vanilla 

Makes a big loaf. 

WHITE LAYER CAKE—Two Thick Layers 

lJ/2 cups sugar 2 teaspoons Royal (baking 
^ cup butter powder 

1 cup milk 1 teaspoon vanilla 
Cream together 

Put in last 3 beaten whites of eggs with pinch of salt. 

POTATO CARAMEL CAKE 

1 cup sugar 1 teaspoon cinnamon 

% cup butter 1 teaspoon nutmeg 

1 cup hot mashed potatoes 1 cup flour 

1 cup grated chocolate 1 teaspoon Royal baking pow- 

Va teaspoon cloves der 

1 cup chopped nuts 1 teaspoon vanilla 

Cream butter and sugar yolks of eggs. Then potatoes, 

spices and chocolate. Sift Royal baking powder in flour. Beat 

batter, add well beaten whites of eggs and nuts last. Bake one 

hour. Makes a large loaf. (Mrs. H. A. Ross) 

86 



PIN WHEELS 

1 qt. flour 2 teaspoons butter 
Yi teaspoon salt 1 cup milk 

2 teaspoons baking powder 2 eggs 
Sift 4 times 

Mix milk and eggs, then add to other ingredients, mix 
well, roll out Vz, inch thick, sprinkle with currants, sugar, cin- 
namon. Roll like jelly cake and cut into slices. 

(Mrs. E. H. Dermitt.) 

SOUR CREAM GINGERBREAD 

1 cup sugar I tablespoon each ginger, all- 

Vz cup butter spice, and cinnamon 

1 cup sour cream ' 2 teaspoons baking soda dis- 

1 cup molasses solved in % cup of boiling 

2 eggs water 

ZYz cups of sifted flour 

Mix all at once. The addition of thin strips of orange 
peel imparts a delicious flavor. 

(Mrs. Claude F. Pugh) 

SOFT GINGER BREAD 

1 cup butter and lard mixed 2 tablespoons cinnamon 
Vz cup brown sugar 1 teaspoon cloves 

Yolks of 2 eggs ^ teaspoon allspice 

1 cup N O molasses 1 cup cold water 

2 teaspoons soda, dissolved in2% cups sifted flour 

2 tablespoon boiling water Whites of eggs beaten stiff 

Yi teaspoon salt 

(Mrs. Silas Benham) 

NO EGG MOLASSES GINGER BREAD 

1 cup molasses 1 teaspoon ginger 

1 teaspoon soda 1 pinch salt 

2 tablespoons shortening 1 pint flour (no more) 
5^2 cup boiling water 

Add boiling water last. Dissolve soda in water and sea- 
son with ginger and cloves. This will spread stiff in the pan, 
but is crisp and good. 

NEW ENGLAND COOKIES 

3 cups brown sugar Flour enough to mix 
1 cup lard 1 teaspoon cinnamon 

1 teaspoon soda dissolved in 1 1 teaspoon salt 
cup hot water 

Roll very thin and sprinkle with granulated sugar. 

(Mrs. E. F. Gerber) 

89 



SUGAR COOKIES 

3^ cup granulated sugar 1 teaspoon cream tartar 

1 cup brown sugar 2 eggs 
1 cup butter Flour to stiffen and roll out 

^k cup sweet milk 1 teaspoon vanilla 

1 level teaspoon soda Pinch salt 

Makes four dozen. 

INEXPENSIVE COOKIES 

2 cups flour 1 cup brown sugar 
3^ cup butter 1 egg 

Work sugar, butter and flour well together, then add egg 
These are better if let stand an hour before rolling out. After 
cutting, place a half almond in the center of each cookie. 
Bake a delicate brown in oven. 

(Mrs. S. F. Read) 



SPONGE WAFERS 

5 eggs 1 cup .rice flour 

1 cup sugar Lcn on or vanilla 

Beat yolks of eggs and sugar together for half hour, add 
flavoring. Beat the whites and put on top of mixture, thevi 
the sifted flour folding all together lightly. 

Drop one teaspoon of m.'xture on baking pan, that has 
been greased and rubbed with flour. Place half blanched 
almond on each. Bake in slow oven 12 or 15 minutes. 

This will make 4 or 5 dozen. 

(Mrs. S. A. Pickering) 



CHOCOLATE FRUIT COOKIES 



H 



cup fat sugar and 1 tablespoon hot 

V2 cup sugar water 

14 cup nuts V2 cup chopped raisins 

1 teaspoon baking powder 1 cup rye flour 

2 tablespoons grated chocolate 1 egg 
mixed with 1 tablespoon 

Cream fat, add sugar slowly. P>eat egg and combine mix- 
ture; add chocolate melted in hot water* with sugar. Add 
other ingredients and chill. Roll on board and cut out. Bake 
in moderate oven. Make 24 small cookies at cost of Ic cacli. 

(Miss Pope) 



Add one-half teaspoon ground ginger to all doughnut 
or cruller recipes. It will prevent the absorption of 
fats. 



90 



JOLLY BOYS 

2y2 heaping tablespoons yellow A little salt 

cornmeal 1 teaspoon baking powder 

2 heaping tablespoons whitel ^%g 

flour ^/^ teaspoon melted butter 

1 tablespoon sugar 

Sift thoroughly cornmeal, flour, sugar, salt and baking 
powder; add to the dry mixture 1 egg with enough milk to 
make a drop batter; stir in quickly half teaspoon melted but- 
ter; beat well and drop by teaspoon in hot fat. 

CREAM SCONES 

2 cups flour 4 tablespoons butter 
4 teaspoons baking powder 2 eggs 

2 teaspoons sugar % cup cream or milk 

^A teaspoon salt 

Mix and sift together flour, baking powder, salt and sugar. 
Rub in butter with tips of fingers and add eggs well beaten, 
then cream. Toss on floured board, pat to ^ inch thickness. 
Cut and brush with white of eggs, sprinkle with sugar. Bake 
in hot oven 15 minutes. 

DROP SPONGES 

34 cup pulverized sugar Yolks of 2 eggs 

y^ cup flour Whites of 3 eggs 

Beat whites of eggs stiff, add sugar; beat yolks very light. 
Fold in flour last. Drop on paper, not buttered, and bake 8 
minutes. 

FRUIT CAKE 

•Vt lb. brown sugar ^ lb. citron, cut fine 

^'\ lb. nut margarine . 2 lbs. small raisins 

4 eggs separately 2 lbs. large raisins 

1 pint milk ^ lb. English walnuts 

1 lb. flour Sliced pineapple and niara- 

y^ lb. cornmeal (thoroughly schino cherries to taste 

scalded with hot water 2 teaspoons baking powder 
about 2 cups) 

Flavor with mace and cinnamon; dredge fruit with a small 
portion of the flour; line pan with dressed brown paper and 
decorate top with nuts and cherries. Bake very slovvlv. 

(Mrs. W. M. Hall) 



Try putting a few whole cloves in the fat when frying 
doughnuts. 

91 



LAYER CAKE To Fill With Whipped Cream or a Custard 

Filling or Jelly 

1 cup sugar 2 cups sifted flour 

% cup butter scant 2 teaspoons Royal baking 
Yi cup milk powder 

Cream together 1 teaspoon vanilla 

3 eggs well be^iten Pinch salt 

NOVELTY CAKE 

% cup butter creamed 28 graham crackers rolled to a 

1 fup sugar creamed dust 

3 eggs, whites and yolks beat-1 teaspoon baking powder 
en separately ^ teaspoon vanilla 

y^ cup sweet milk 

Mix like any other cake. Bake in layers or loaf. Ice with 
any kind of icing. Half cup walnut meats may be added if 
desired. 

CHOCOLATE CAKE 

• 

6 eggs 2 tablespoons dri e d bread 

1 tablespoon powdered sugar crumbs rolled fine 

% lb. Maillard's single vanilla > 

chocolate grated (no other 

will do) 

Beat egg yolks with sugar; add chocolate and bread 
crumbs and mix well. Fold in egg whites beaten stiff and 
bake in layers. 

Put chocolate icing on each layer and after it has set, put 

whipped cream on each layer and on top. This makes a rich 

dessert. 

(Mrs. C. A. Rook) 

HONEY PLUM CAKE 

Vi cup shortening ^k teaspoon salt 

Yi cup brown sugar . ^ teaspoon ginger 
Vz cup honey % teaspoon nutmeg 

1 egg Vz teaspoon cloves 

y^ cup milk . 1 teaspoon cinnamon 

2 cups pastry flour 1 cup raisins or mixed fruit 
1 teaspoon soda 

Cream the shortening and brown sugar together, add honey 
and egg well beaten. Mix and sift together all the dry in- 
gredients reserving a little of the flour to dust over the rais- 
ins. Add dry ingredients alternately with the milk to the 
first mixture. Beat well, add raisins, and bake in a well 
greased and floured loaf pan, in a moderate oven. Honey is 
unequaled for making small cakes for afternoon teas. Will 
keep indefinitely. 

92 



MARGUERITES 

^^ lb. dates measured after 1 teaspoon baking powder 

stoning J^ cup flour 

% lb. nut meats chopped Salt 

Mi cup sugar Vanilla 
2 eggs 

Chop nuts and dates together; add sugar and stir well. 
Sift flour and baking powder together and add yolks of eggs. 
Cut in whites and add flavoring last. 

Bake in a loaf or muffin tins in moderate oven about 45 
minutes or 1 hour. 



BROWNIES 



2 eggs 

1 cup sugar 

% cup flour 

^^ cup butter or substitute 



2 squares chocolate, melted 
1 teaspoon vanilla 
.. 1 cup broken walnuts 



Beat eggs and sugar together; add melted butter, chocolate, 
vanilla, flour, and last of all the broken nuts rolled in a little 
flour. 

Bake in moderate oven 20 minutes in a long pan and cut 
into squares while hot. 

(Mrs. Albert Schultz) 



SPICE DROP CAKES— Baked in Gem Pans 



substitute 



1 cup sugar 
l^ cup 'butter or 

cream together 

Pinch of salt 
1 egg 1 

1 cup sour or buttermilk with 1 
1 level teaspoon soda beaten 

in milk 

Makes 15 to 18. 



cups sifted flour with ^ tea- 
spoon baking powder in 
flour 

Add a little grated nutmeg 
teaspoon cinnamon 
teaspoon vanilla 



(Mrs. F. M. Fuller) 



HONEY HERMITS 



1 
1 

1 
3 



egff 

cup chopped raisins 
teaspoon soda 
cups pastry flour 



% cup shortening 

^ cup honey 

% teaspoon mixed spices 

}A teaspoon salt 

Heat the shortening and honey together until the short- 
ening is melted, add the mixed spices using the cinnamon, 
cloves and nutmeg. Allow it to Cool and then add the egg 
well beaten, raisins and 2 cupsful of flour in which the soda and 
salt have been sifted. Add more flour if need to make a dough 
stiff enough to roll out. Roll, cut in squares, and bake in a 
moderate oven. 

(Mrs. A. C. Bane) 

93 



HERMITS 

2 cups brown sugar A little grated nutmce: 
1 cup butter and drippings Pinch salt 

mixed 1 teaspoon vanilla 

3 eggs 2J^ cups flour 

1 level teaspoon soda in a little 1 cup chopped raisins 
boiling water 1 cup chopped nuts 

Mi teaspoon cinnamon 

Cream butter and suear together, add other ingredients, 
drop from a spoon on greased pans and bake in a moderate 
oven. 



DROP CAKES— Baked in Gem Pans 

1 cup sugar Pinch salt 

Large tablespoon butter cream 2 cups sifted flour 

together 2 teaspoons baking powder 

1 ^gg 1 teaspoon vanilla 

1 cup milk 

Put in quick oven and bake 25 minutes. 



PEANUT COOKIES 



2 eggs 
2 level 

powder 
1 cup graham flour 



teaspoons 



baking 



J/2 cake chocolate 

^ cup Crisco (or butter) 
1 cup brown sugar 
1 cup chopped peanuts 

Melt the chocolate in half cup water. Beat sugar and 
crisco together, add to chocolate; then add the chopped nuts 
and last the beaten eggs. Mix baking powder in 1 cup of 
graham flour, or as much flour as will make a batter that will 
drop easily from a spoon. Drop one teaspoonful at a time on 
buttered pan and bake. 

(Mrs. S. B. Ely) 



GINGER SNAPS 



2 cups sugar 
2 cups molasses 

2 cups lard or butter 

3 eggs 

1 tablespoon soda dissolved 

hot water 
1 tablespoon cinnamon 



1 tablespoon cloves 
1 tablespoon ginger 
1 tablespoon salt 
1 tablespoon nutmeg 
inl tablespoon vanilla 
Flour enough to roll 



It is well to mix the night before. Set away in a cool 
place and roll out the next morning. 

(Mrs. E. M. Herr) 

94 



DROP GRAHAM CAKES 

1 cup sour cream 2% cups graham flour 

1 teaspoon soda Nutmeg 

1 cup sugar Pinch of salt 

2 tablespoons molasses 

Drop from spoon on buttered pan and bake slowly. 

(Mrs. Paul Sturtevant) 



pint milk - 
cup shortening 
cup cold water 
teaspoon salt 
teaspoon soda 
cup brown sugar 



TAYLOR CAKES 



2 eggs 

1 tablespoon each ground cinna- 
mon, cloves, ginger 

1 teaspoon baking powder 
Flour for soft batter 



soda. 



Mix as for gingerbread and drop on buttered pan. 

Note — Can leave out baking powder and use 1 teaspoon 



POTATO CORNMEAL CAKES 



teaspoon cinnamon 

teaspoon nutmeg 

cup flour 

teaspoon baking powder 

teaspoon vanilla 



1 cup sugar 

% cup butter 

1 cup hot mashed potatoes 

1 cup^ grated chocolate 

1 cup' chopped nuts 

% teaspoon cloves 

Cream butter, sugar, tyolks of eggs, potatoes, spices and 
chocolate Sift baking powder in flour, add butter, and well 
beaten whites of eggs and nuts last. 

Bake one hour. Makes a large loaf. 



OATMEAL COOKIES WITH GRAHAM FLOUR 



2 cups Mothers Oats 1 

1 cup sugar (white or brown) 
^ to 1 cup Wesson Oil (ac- 1 
cording to desired richness) 1 
1^ cups Graham Flour (or 
less) 



cup chopped raisins (or half 
raisins and half nuts) 
teaspoon cinnamon 
teaspoon soda dissolved in 
5 teaspoons hot water 



Drop small tablespoon of mixture on flat pans. 



OAT MEAL COOKIES WITH SOUR MILK 



1 cup shortening 

3 tablespoons sour milk 

2 teaspoons vanilla 
Raisins and nuts to taste 



2 cups flour 

2^ cups Rolled Oats 

1 cup sugar 

2 eggs 

Drop from spoon on buttered tins. Bake about 15 minutes. 

93 



LACE CAKE 

1 tablespoon butter 2 cups Rolled Oats 

2 eggs 1 teaspoon ful baking powder 
1 cup sugar 

Beat the yolks very light, add sugar and melted buttci, 
beat again, then stir in the well beaten whites. Add the rolled 
oats in which the baking powder has been well mixed. Let 
mixture stand a few minutes to have the butter mix well with 
other ingredients. Drop half a teaspoon about three inches 
apart on buttered tins. Bake slowly. 

Maple sugar can be substituted for cane sugar. 

(Mrs. H. A. Ross) 

i 

WAR TIME MACAROONS WITH COCOANUT 

1% cups Mothers Oats 1 scant teaspoon baking pow- 

y^ teaspoon salt der 

^ cup sugar 1 egg well beaten 

1 cup cocoanut 1 teaspoon Almond Extract 

Mix in the order given and when well blended drop mix- 
ture from tip of spoon on pan lined with buttered wax paper, 
one-half inch apart. Bake 4 to 10 minutes according to thick- 
ness of cakes. Watch carefully to avoid burning. Makes 
about 18 macaroons. (Miss Cora Shallenberger) 



OATMEAL MACAROONS WITH CORN SYRUP 

1 tablespoon fat 2 teaspoons Almond Extract 
^ cup corn syrup if desired 

2 tablespoons sugar ^^ teaspoon salt 

1 egg ]/i teaspoon baking powder 

1^ cups oatmeal 1^ tablespoons flour 

Combine the melted fat and the sugar and syrup, add the 
beaten eggs and stir in the other ingredients. Drop from a 
teaspoon on greased sheets or pans and bake in a moderate 
oven for 15 minutes. This makes 25 to 28 cookies about 2 
inches in diameter. (Y. W. C. A.) 



NUTLETS 

1 cup shortening • 2 scant teaspoons soda 

1 cup honey 1 teaspoon salt 

1 cup brown sugar 1 teaspoon cinnamon 

1 cup chopped nut meats 4 cups pastry flour 
1 egg 

Sift the dry ingredients together, beat egg well, and mix 
in order given. This will make a stiff batter; drop by tea- 
spoon on a greased pan and bake in a moderate oven, as 
cakes made with honey burn easily. This recipe makes about 
8 dozen small cakes. 

96 



NUT CAKES (Thin) 

1 ^SSf unbeaten 3 tablespoons flour 

1 cup maple syrup or brown 1 cup chopped nuts, preferably 
sugar pecans 

2 tablespoons butter or substi- Vanilla 
tute Salt 

Drop by half teaspoons on greased tins. If brown sugar 
is used, flavor with vanilla. 

(Mrs. Chester B. Albree) 

MAPLE JUMBLES 

1 cup Maple Syrup 2% cups flour 

1 egg 1 level teaspoon soda 

]/2 cup butter 

Beat eggs and butter together and add syrup, put soda 
in flour and add last. Drop from a spoon on well greased pan 
and bake about 20 minutes. 

(Mrs. Paul Sturtevant) 

DOUGHNUTS 

1 cup mashed potatoes 1 egg 

1 cup sour milk 1 teaspoon baking powder 

1 teaspoon soda nutmeg 

1 cup sugar Flour enough to make a soft 

dough 

Break egg in bowl, add sugar and beat well. Add some 
milk and soda, the mashed potato, nutmeg and flour. 



97 



5>. 



MAPLE ICING 

Whites of 2 eggs beaten stiff 2 cups Maple Syrup 

Boil syrup until it will roll into a ball after being dropped 
in cold water. Slowly stir syrup into the whites of the eggs 
beating all the time. Beat until thick enough to spread. This 
makes enough for a layer cake. 

(Mrs. Walter C. Carroll) 



101 



Desserts 

DATE PUDDING 

1 cup chopped walnuts 4 tablespoons cracker crumbs 

1 cup chopped dates mixed with 1 tablespoon 

Baking Powder, yolks of 3 
eggs beaten with ^ cup 
sugar 

To the eggs and sugar add the cracker crumbs and baking 
powder, then the nuts and dates. Fold in the whites of eggs 
beaten stiff. 

Bake in. a moderate oven about 35 minutes. Serve cold 
with whipped cream. 

GINGER BREAD WITH Af>PLES 

GINGER BREAD 

1 cup fat • 2 teaspoons soda 

1 cup brown sugar (or Karo) 2 teaspoorfs cinnamon 

1 cup molasses 1 teaspoon cloves 

1 scant cup cold water, if J/2 teaspoon allspice 
using Karo, ^ cup water 1 teaspoon ginger 

2 eggs 

2^ cups flour and ' J/2 cup rye 
or (lJ/2 cups barley and 
IMi cups flour) 

5 apples li cup water 

^ cup sugar 

Pare core and cut apples into eighths and cook in a syrup 
made by cooking sugar and water. When the apples are half 
done, drain well and put into a buttered pan, pour over this 
any ginger bread mixture and bake. Serve with a sauce made 
by pournig the syrup in which the apples were cooked over 
a well beaten egg. The syrup should be boiling when add'jJ 
to the egg. " (Mrs. Jas. Burt) 

A SIMPLE CUSTARD 

2 cups milk 2 ta')le:,]:oo''? cornstarch 

2 tablespoons sugar 2 eggs (yolks) 

I'ut sugar and corn starch in small pan with handle, dro]) 

in the egg yolks, blend, then add milk gradually, place over 

the fire, stirring constantly until it boils up well. IHavor with 
vanilla. Divide in five sherbet glasses. 



Bake apples and pears in a little water long ancj 
slov/ly so as to form a rich syrup out of themeslves. 
Long, slow cooking also develops a rich flavor in prunes. 

102 



MERINGUE 

2 eggs 2 teaspoons of cocoa 

2 teaspoons of sugar 

Whip the whites of eggs until they are very stiff. Mix 
the sugar and cocoa with a little of egg white then blend all 
together and flavor with a few drops of vanilla. Put this in 
sherbet glasses, place glasses on a pan and put on the toaster 
trav until browned. (Mrs. W. L. Davis) 



ST. JAMES PUDDING 

* 

1 cup molasses 1 cup sweet milk 

% cup butter 1 level teaspoon soda in a 

1 teaspoon cinnamon and a little hot water 

pinch of various other 2J/2 cups flour 
spices 

Put in mould greased with butter and steam 3^ hours. 
Serve hot with hard sauce. (See sauces) 



PRUNE PUDDING 

1 pt. milk 4 tablespoons sugar 

^/^^cup flour 1 teaspoon salt 

1 lemon 1 lb. prunes 
3 eggs 

Grate lemon and heat half the milk with the grated rind 
coming to a scald. Mix the rest of the milk with flour, cook 
until thickened and pour into that the lemon, then add sugar. 
Take from the fire, and add well beaten yolks of eggs. Let 
stand and cool. Have your prunes well cooked and mash 
through a colander. Add the juice. Have the whites of the 
eggs well beaten. Mix prunes with the sauce and fold in the 
whites of the eggs. Put in baking dish, cook 15 minutes. 
Serve with hard sauce. (Mrs. C- I- McKee) 



"DON'T WASTE FOOD BY SERVING TOO MUCH." 

Cook just enough for your family. Do not imagine 
you are going to have unexpected guests. The chances 
are that you will only waste good food. Serve smaller 
portions, so that none will be left on the plate." 

"Careless cooking must go." 

"Don't let perishable foods perish in your house. Buy 
only what you need." 

103 



CHARLOTTE RUSSE 

1 tablespoon gelatine dissolved 1 pt. double thick cream 
in ^ cup coffee Sugar to taste 

When whipping, gradually add your sugar, sifting it as 
you put it in. When cream is thoroughly whipped, gradually 
pour in the dissolved gelatine, rubbing it through a tea strainer. 
Have ladyfingers placed around the dish then pour this in the 
center. A delicious dessert is to place this in a mold, pack 
in ice for four or five hours and then turn out as you would 
ice cream. You can use wine for flavoring or fruit juices, dis- 
solving your gelatin first in water but only enough to soften, 
then add 'your flavoring to the gelatin. 

(Mrs. C. I. McKee) 

ORANGE BAVOISE 

Juice 3 oranges 1^ cups sugar 

1 lemon , 1 pint whipped cream 

2 level teaspoons gelatine 

Dissolve gelatine in ^^ cup cold water for 15 minutes, then 
place bowl in hot water. Add sugar to fruit and gelatine and 
when partly congealed add whipped cream. 

Mould and set on ice to chill. 

(Miss Helen Barclay) 

WAR PUDDING 

Take 5 or 6 stale mutTins, cornmeal, rye or graham, cover 
with milk and when soft beat well and add: 

1 tablespoon brown sugar % teaspoon salt 

1 tablespoon molasses 1 or 2 eggs 

little nutmeg 1 . level teaspoon soda 

% teaspoon cinnamon J^ cup raisins or currants 

Pour into a well greased dish or custard cupS and steam 
for 1^ hours without lifting the cover. Serve in same dish. 

(Mrs. A. W. McEldowney) 

WARTIME STEAMED PUDDING 

1% cups Graham Flour 1 cup chopped raisins 

1 cup milk % teaspoon salt 

5^ cup molasses 1 level teaspoon soda 

Sift the graham flour, but return bran to the sifted mix- 
ture. Dissolve soda in milk, add the molasses and salt and 
pour all over flour. Beat well and add chopped raisins. But- 
ter well a double boiler and pour in mixture. Steam 4 hours 
with tight lid, keeping plenty of water boiling in lower ves- 
sel. Turn out on platter when done. Serve with hard or 
golden sauce. Forty minutes sufficient for steaming in indi- 
vidual moulds. (See golden sauce). 

(Miss Emma B. Suydam) 

104 



BAKED APPLES 

Apples Butter 

Seedless raisins Molasses 

Pare and core apples of uniform size, fill centers with 
seedless raisins. Place a small piece of butter and a teaspoon 
of molasses on each. Put enough water in pan to prevent 
burning. Mrs. W. W. Wishart). . 

SPANISH CREAM 

Yt. oz. gelatine 3 eggs 

1% pt. cold milk 4 tablespoons sugar 

Flavor to taste 

Let gelatine stand in milk Vz hour, then let it come to 
boiling point. Stir in the beaten yolks of eggs with sugar. 
Pour this mixture over well beaten whites, put in moulds and 
serve with cream wh«D cold 

GRAPE NUT PUDDING 

1 cup grape nuts 1 tablespoon butter or other 
Vi cup sugar fat 

2 cups milk Pinch salt 

1 teaspoon vanilla 

Scald milk and pour over grapenuts, let stand until cool. 
Beat eggs, add sugar and butter and pour into milk and grape- 
nuts mixture. Bake until consistency of baked custard. Serve 
with cream. (Mrs. Robert Miller) 

FIG DESSERT 

Vi lb. stewing or layer figs Vz lb. paper shelled almonds 

^ lb. seedless raisins Yz pint cream 

Stew figs until tender (about 1 hour to get a thick syrup). 
Stew raisins also, 1 hour; put figs and syrup in center of round 
plate, about the size of a chop plate, then put the raisins 
around the figs, after that the nuts, adding the cream last, 
which should be beaten very stiff. 

PRUNE WHIP 

2 cups of prunes ^ pt. cream 

Vi package of Jello or gela- 
tine 

Boil prunes until they have a thick syrup; stone one-half 
of the prunes and beat hard, o? until they are light; pour % 
pt. boiling water on the Jello, add the beaten prunes when the 
Jello starts to cool; pour into a mold and set in a cold place. 

When the mold is set, turn out on center of round plate, 
put the whole prunes in their own heavy syrup around the 
molded whip; beat the cream very stiff and put on top. (A 
few nuts added to the whole prunes is suggested). 

105 



PRUNE PUDDING 

1 lb. prunes 3 eggs (whites only) 

Boil prunes V/2 hours, or until very little juice is left; 
seed and beat hard until very light. Beat the eggs stiff and 
mix lightly into the beaten prunes. Bake in deep dish, 10 to 
15 minutes and serve at once. (A custard sauce made from 
the yellows of the eggs is sometimes used. 

(Mrs. S. R. Ely) 

LEMON PUDDING 

Beat the yolks of 3 eggs and mix with -34 cup sugar, 1 
tablespoon of butter, and 1 scant tablespoon of flour. Beat 
thoroughly and add the juice of 3 -good sized lemons and the 
rind of 1 and 4 tablespoons of chopped walnut meats. 

Fold in the whites of 3 eggs after being beaten very stiff. 
Put in pudding dish and bake until stift. 

MAPLE SAUCE TO BE SERVED WITH RICE 

2 eggs (yolks) 7^ cup whipped cream 
% cup maple syrup Pinch of salt 

Beat yolks of eggs until thick. Heat maple syrup, while 
hot stir into yolks. Cook until spoon is coated. Strain and 
beat thoroughly until cooked. Add whipped cream and salt. 
Serve very cold. (Mrs. J. J. Miller) 

APPLE SAUCE (Made with pineapple syrup) 

Cook as usual, using the syrup from canned or fresh oine- 
apple in place of sugar. (Mrs. W. C. Anderson) 

PRUNES COOBCED WITHOUT SUGAR 

Sterilize with boiling water. Soak over night. Bake in 
a slow oven in the water in which they are soaked. 

SURPRISE PUDDING 

1 cup sugar Juice and rind of half an 

5 eggs orange 

1 cup flour 

ti^ream yolk of eggs and sugar, add orange juice, then flour. 
Whip the whites stiff, fold in and bake in slow oven 30 minutes. 

When cold cut hole in center of cake. Whip one pint 
cream stiff, flavor with sherry wine, pour in center of cake. 
Make chocolate sauce and pour around cake and serve. 

•(Mrs. W. J. Holland) 

106 



BAKED HONEY APPLES 

« 

4 apples % cup honey 

^^ tablespoon flour 1 tablespoon oleomargarine 

54 cup water Cinnamon 

Score and core apples and arrange in baking dish. Mix 
flour, water and honey and pour over apples. Dot with oleo- 
margarine, sprinkle with cinnamon and bake until soft. 

PLUM PUDDING 

IVz cups finely chopped suet 3 cups graham flour and 
1 cup molasses cornmeal mixed (scald 

1 cup milk cornmeal before using) 

Ij^ cups raisins 1 teaspoon soda . 

I cup currants Spice to taste 

% cup citron 

Boil 3 hours and serve with hot sauce. 

(Mrs. Wm. M. Hall) 

FIG TAPIOCA 

% cup pearl tapioca % cup figs, diced 

3 cups cold water % cup walnut meats, cut fine 

1^ cups light brown sugar Juice % lemon 

Soak tapioca over night in water with a pinch or salt. In 
morning add sugar and figs and cook a full hour in double 
boiler, then add nuts and lemon juice. When coH serve with 
whipped cream. (Miss Anna Dake McCague) 

DATE PUDDING 

1/2 cup butter 1 small teaspoon baking pow- 

•V^ cup sugar der 

% cup milk . 1 Qgg 

Yi cup dates Cinnamon 

Vi cup English walnuts 
(chopped fine) 

Make in solid sheet, cut into squares, put whipped cream 
and chopped nuts (in addition to, half cup) on top. .Bake in 
hot oven 20 minutes. 

PRUNE JELLY 

6 prunes Vz box of Knox's gelatine 

1 cup of sugar 2 cups of water 

Cook the prunes in 2 cups of water until tender. Dissolve 
the gelatine in one cup of water. Remove the seeds and skins 
of the prunes by putting through colander. Return to the 
liquid, adding sugar. Cook fifteen minutes. Remove from 
fire. Add gelatine and put into individual moulds. Serve with 
cream and sugar. 

(Miss Rachel C. Aiken) 

107 



MARSHMALLOW PUDDING 



Yi pound marshmallows q^ 
1 cup heavy cream 



1 teaspoon vanilla 
Vi cup preserved cherries 



1 tablespoon granulated gela- 
tine 
J4 cup cold water 
% cup scalded cream 

1 cup thin cream 

Yt. cup English walnuts 

2 tablespoons powdered sugar 



Cut walnut meats and marshmallow into small pieces. Whip 
heavy (whipping) cream. Add sugar and vanilla, fold in re- 
maining ingredients. Mould and chill. 

For thin cream, soak gelatine in cold wat^r, dissolve in 
scalded cream. Strain into a bowl and add sugar and vanilla. 
Set bowl in pan of ice water and stir constantly till it begins 
to thicken. Then fold in "whip" cream and other ingredients. 

Should gelatine mixture become too thick before adding 
whipped cream melt over hot water and again cool. 

(Miss Helen Heiner) 



BREAD PUDDING 



3 eggs 

1 tablespoon sugar 
1 lemon 
Butter 



1 cup bread crumbs 
1 quart milk 
Salt 



To well beaten eggs add heaping tablespoon sugar, grated 
rind of lemon, 1 tablespoon lemon juice, a little melted butter, 
1 cup bread crumbs rubbed through the hands, salt to taste. 
Add milk. Bake in hot oven until brown. 

(Mrs. George E. House) 

CRUMB BREAD PUDDING 



^Yt. cups dry bread crumbs 
% cup cornmeal 
1 cup Graham Flour 
1 cup boiling water 



1 cup milk 
Yi cup molasses 
Yx teaspoon salt 

Wi teaspoons soda 



Pour boiling water over the dried sifted crumbs and let 
stand for 10 minutes. Sift the other dry ingredients and add 
to crumbs with molasses and milk. Pour into a greased mould 
and steam 3 hours. 

(Mrs. Wm. U. Follansbee) 



ttlNGHAM PUDDING 



Yi. cup Orleans Molasses 

% cup water 

\Y2 cup flour 

Ya cup" melted butter 



Vi teaspoon soda 

Yi. teaspoon cinnamon 

Ya teaspoon ginger 

Ya teaspoon salt 



Chopped nuts and raisins if desired. Steam 1 hour. Serve 
with hard sauce. 

(Mrs. E. F. Gerber) 

106 



STEAMED CHOCOLATE PUDDING 

5 squares Maillard's Chocolate 5 eggs 
5 tablespoons butter 

Melt chocolate and butter in double boiler, add first yolks 
and then whites oif eggs beaten separately. Place in ring mould 
without lid and steam for 35 to 40 minutes. Serve with hot 
chocolate sauce or whipped cream. 

(Mrs. Wm. B. Trainor) 

COTTAGE PUDDING 

% cup butter 1 teaspoon soda 

1 cup milk Flour enough to make a 

Yolks of 2 eggs, beaten stiff batter 

1 cup sugar 

CHOCOLATE BREAD PUDDING 

2 cups milk 2 eggs 

4 tablespoons grated choco- 1% cups stale bread crumbs 
late 2 tablespoons powdered sugar^ 

2 tablespoons butter . Vanilla 

% cup sugar \ 

Scald the milk, then add the chocolate which has first been 
melted over hot water, then butter and sugar. Stir well and 
p6ur over soft bread crumbs and beaten egg yolks. Add 
vanilla and pour into buttered baking dish. Bake 30 minutes. 
Make a meringue of the whites of eggs beaten stiff; add pow- 
dered sugar and vanilla. 

SPICED BREAD PUDDING 

1 * cup dry bread crumbs %. teaspoon salt 

2 cups hot milk ^4 teaspoon cinnamon 

% cup seeded raisins % teaspoon each of powdered 

1 Qgg cloves, nutmeg, allspice, 

% cup molasses mace and ginger 

Pour hot milk over the bread crumbs and let stand for 

5 minutes. Steam the raisins at the same time. Then add to 
the milk and crumbs the seasonings, molasses, raisins and a 
well beaten egg. Pour into a buttered baking dish and bake 
in a moderate oven for one hour. 

Note — Bread crumbs can be used for stuffing, filling and 
to replace flour in the making of sauces, hot cakes, pudding, 

etc. (Mrs. Wm. U. FoUansbee) 

FILLING FOR NUT CAKE 

1 pint whipped cream A little powdered sugar 

Vanilla 54 lb. chopped nuts 

Put this between layers of cake and spread a soft icing 
on top. A delicious dessert, but must be used when freshly 
made. (Mrs. C. A. Rook) 

109 



MOLASSES PIE 

1 cup butter ,2 eggs (whites) 

1 cup sugar * 1 cup New Orleans molasses 

5 eggs (yolks) 1 teaspoon nutmeg 

Work sugar into softened butter. Add beaten yolks, mo- 
lasses, nutmeg and slightly beaten whites. Mix all well and 
l>ake in pastrv. This makes two pies. 



ANGEL PUDDING 

Yz cup English walnut meats Wz teaspoon Baking Powder 
15 dates ^ cup powdered sugar 

^ eggs (whites) 

Chop nuts and dates. Beat whites stiff and add sugar and 
baking powder. Mix in dates and nuts. Pour into small bak- 
ing dish. Bake in a slow oven 20 minutes. Serve with whip- 
ped cream. 

(Mrs. Gilliford B. Sweeny) 



SNOW PUDDING— CUSTARD SAUCE 

2 cups boiling water 3 tablespoons cornstarch 

J/2 cup sugar ^ teaspoon vanilla 

Pinch salt 2 eggs (whites) beaten stiff 

Mix water, sugar, salt and vanilla, thicken with cornstarch. 
While hot add 2 eggs. Whip and let cool. 

2 eggs (yolks) Pinch salt 

2 cups milk ^ teaspoon vanilla 

Vi cup sugar 

1 teaspoon cornstarch mixed with cold water. Mix first 
milk, sugar, salt and vanilla and thicken with cornstarch. Add 
slowly beaten yolks while hot. 

(Mrs. F. M. Fuller) 



CUSTARD SOUFFLE 

2 tablespoons butter 1 cup milk 

2 tablespoons flour 4 eggs 

2 tablespoons sugar 

Boil milk in double boiler, rub butter and flour together, 
add to boiling milk, boil 10 minutes. Beat yolks of eggs and 
sugar together, add to mixture, set aside to cool. Beat whites. 
Mix all together, pour into greased pudding dish. Takes 30 
minutes in quick oven. Serve at once with vanilla sauce. 

(Mrs. H. A. Ross) 
no 



DELICATE FRESH STRAWBERRY DESSERT 

^ cup fresh strawberries White of one egg 

1 full cup granulated sugar 

Put all together and whipped until stiff. 

Drop fresh strawberries in each dish and serve. Serves 7. 



BLUEBERRY STEAM PUDDING 

1 cup flour ^/^ cup milk 

1 tablespoon lard 2 teaspoons Royal baking 

1 egg powder 

Pinch of salt 1 cup blueberries 
1 tablespoon sugar 

Butter double boiler, steam Ij/z hours, serve with cream. 

BROWN PUDDING 

Ij^ cups Graham Flour 1 cup raisins 

1 cup sweet milk 1 teaspoon soda 
^ cup molasses Pinch of salt 

Steam 3 hours and serve with nutmeg sauce. (See sauces). 

ICED RICE PUDDING 

2 cups boiled rice (mashed 2 eggs and 4 tablespoons 
fine) powdered sugar 

1 lemon ly2 pts. boiling milk 

Add the boiling milk, yolks of eggs well beaten and rind 
of lemon to the rice. Return to fire stirring all the time, and 
let boil until it thickens to a custard. Pour into shallow dish 
and spread with meringue made from well beaten whites of 
eggs, powdered sugar and juice from one-half lemon. Put in 
hot oven until puffed and a delicate brown. Serve ice cold 
with preserved cherries or strawberries if desired. 



ITALIAN CREAM 

% box gelatine 2 eggs 

1 pt. milk ^ cup sugar 

Vanilla 

Soak gelatine one-half hour in cold water, put milk in 
double boiler. When boiling, stir in yolks of eggs, well beaten, 
add sugar and gelatine. When custard begins to thicken take 
off and pour into a deep dish in which the whites have been 
beaten to stiff froth. Flavor with vanilla. Put into mould and 
allow 4 hours to cool. 

(Mrs. T. W. Friend) 

111 



/ 



NEW ENGLAND INDIAN PUDDING * 



1 quart milk (boiling) 
1 scant cup cornmeal 

Butter (size of an egg) 
1 small cup molasses 



1 teaspoon ginger and salt 

1 quart cold milk 

2 eggs (well beaten) 



Add the cornmeal (which has been mixed with a little ot 
the cold milk) to the quart of milk, when nearly boiling. To 
this, while boiling, add butter, molasses, cold milk, eggs, gin- 
ger and salt. Bake two hours. 

(Mrs. Chester B. Albree) 



5^2 cup chopped suet 

% cup seeded raisins 

% cup molasses 

y^ teaspoon salt 



TROY PUDDING 



Vz teaspoon soda 
^ cup milk 
2 cups flour 



Dissolve soda in milk, after which mix all ingredients to- 
gether and steam three hours. Currants and citron if desired. 
(Serve with cornstarch sauce.) 



•PEACH PUDDING 



2 eggs (beat yolks) 
1 cup of milk 
Vz teaspoon salt 
1 tablespoon melted butter 



6 tablespoons granulated 

sugar 
3 teaspoons baking powder 



Mix and beat in Ij^ cups of flour, into which has been 
sifted the baking powder. Stir in carefully well beaten whites 
of eggs and pour the batter into shallow, well greased pans. 
Put halves of canned (or fresh) peaches over the top and 
sprinkle with 6 tablespoons of granulated sugar. Bake in 
quick oven Yi hour. Serve warm with sauce. 

Sauce. Use liquor from canned peaches or whipped cream 
with thickened sauce. (Miss Bertha Young) 



RICE CUSTARD 

1 cup rice, boiled and still hot 2 eggs 

3 cups milk 1 tablespoon cornstarch 

^ cup sugar Flavor to taste 

Make a custard of milk and corn starch sugar and yolks 
of eggs. Stir into this the cup of rice, add flavoring (nutmeg) 
and orange or lemon peel). Turn into a pudding dish and 
bake until set. Make a meringue of the whites of the eggs. 
This pudding should be soft enough to eat without cream. 

(Mrs. Joseph H. Moore) 

112 



TAPIOCA CUSTARD 

3 tablespoons pearl tapioca 3 tablespoons sugar vanilla 

2 cups milk Orange juice or rind, grated 

2 eggs 

Soak tapioca 4 or 5 hours in half cup of water. Have milk 
boiling, stir in tapioca, let simmer. Stir often till tapioca 
is clear, then pour over yolks of 2 eggs whipped with the 
sugar. Return to the stove and let simmer till custard is thick. 
Turn in bowl, flavor with vanilla or orange juice or grated 
rind. Stir in lightly the whipped whites of eggs. 

RHUBARB 

A fair amount of pink skinned 1 cup honey 
rhubarb 1 cup water 

Stew slowly about 20 minutes. 

(Mrs. Taylor Allderdice) 

SUGGESTION FOR DESSERT 

• Small quantities of lemon or coflfee jelly or Spanish cream 
can be made presentable and .utilized by placing a few spoons- 
ful in sherbet glasses and capping with a well flavored mer- 
ingue of white of eggs and sugar or whipped cream. 

(Mrs. Albert Kingsbury) 

RUSSIAN CASCELL 

Drain juice from any kind of canned fruit or mixture 
of fruits. Cut fruit into small pieces and put on a plate. 
Sprinkle with sugar and put in oven to dry. Strain the juice 
and put over the fire to boil. While boiling stir in corn starch 
mixed with cold water, allowing 2 tablespoons of corn starch 
to each pint of juice. Stir constantly until it boils and then 
beat until clear. Arrange in sherbet glasses with the pieces 
of fruit through it and serve cold with whipped cream or cream 
and sugar. This may be made with dried stewed fruits, dried 
peaches or apricots are especially nice. 

(Mrs. W. L. Davis) 

CHARLOTTE RUSSE FLUFF 

2J/2 teaspoons or % box gela- 1 tablespoon vanilla 
tine 1 pint cream 

1 cup sugar 4 grated macaroons or nuts or 

J4 cup water fruit 

1 egg 

Soak gelatine in % cup water for ^ hour. Set cup in boiling 
water until dissolved. Make a custard of milk, sugar and egg. 
Add gelatine and vanilla and set aside to cool. Whip cream and 
add custard to it with whipper. Pour into mould. 

(Mrs. Alexander Nimick) 

113 



APPLE CUSTARD 

1 dozen apples 1 quart milk 

4 eggs Sugar and butter 

4 tablespoons flour 

Pare and core uniform apples. Place in shallow bake dish, ' 

fill center with sugar and put bit of butter on top. Beat eggs 
separately. Beat these ingredients 8 or 10 minutes and pour 
around the apples (not over them) and bake until apples are 



CARROT PUDDING 

1 cup grated potatoes J/2 cup raisins 

1 cup grated carrots % cup butter 

1 cup sugar ^ teaspoon cloves 

1 cup flour ^2 teaspoon cinnamon 

^ cup currants % teaspoon nutmeg 

Stir 1 teaspoon of soda into the potatoes, flour and raisins. 
Grease pail, cover tight, steam 3y2 hours. Serve with sauce. 

(Mrs. H. C. Torrance) 



GRAHAM AND FIG PUDDING 

4 tablespoons Graham Flour in 1^ cup English walnuts 
1 pt. water — cook 15 min., add 1 cup sugar 
1 lb. figs, chopped Pinch salt 

Boil 15 minutes, put in mold. Serve with whipped cream, 
a lemon, or hard sauce. Serves 10 portions. " 

(Mrs. F. M. Fuller) 



ICE BOX PUDDING 

1% cakes sweet chocolate; 4 eggs 

melted 1 teaspoon vanilla 

2 tables{poon>s boiling water IJ/^ doz. lady fingers 

2 tablespoons pulverized su- 
gar 

To the melted chocolate add boiling water, pulverized su- 
gar, the yolks of eggs stirred in one at a time, teaspoon vanilla. 
Stir in beaten whites of eggs. 

Line a mould or pan with waxed paper. Separate lady 
fingers. Lay a layer of cake and a layer of sauce until all 
is used. Put in ice box to settle, and serve with whipped 
cream. (Miss Alice G. McChesney) 

114 



BANANA FLIP 

2 bananas 1 lemon 

2 eggs, whites Salt 

3 tablespoons pulverized sugar 

Beat the whites of eggs to a stiff froth with a pinch of salt 
and sugar. Add pulp of bananas which have been pressed 
through a potato/ricer. Also the juice of lemon. 

Serve in sherbet cups with boiled custard or whipped 
cream. 

Stewed apricots, ripe peaches, prunes or any fruit of which 
pulp may be made. (Mrs. Frederic I. Merrick) 

BANANA CREAM 

2 tablespoons granulated % cup honey 
gelatine Juice 1 lemon 

1 h^ cups hot milk 1 cup whipped cream 

3 ripe bananas 

Soften gelatine in % cup of cold water and dissolve it in 
the hot milk. Add the bananas mashed and put through a 
sieve with the lemon-juice. Add honey. When cold and be- 
ginning to stiffen whip the cream. Pour into a cold, wet 
mold and place in the refrigerator to stiffen. 

Any other fruit may be used. 

(Mrs. Edward J. House) 

RASPBERRY SPONGE 

1^ tablespoons granulated 1 cup raspberry juice 
gelatine Juice of 1 lemon 

%' cup cold water Whites of 3 eggs 

% cup boiling water 1 pint cream 
1 cup sugar 

Soak gelatine in cold water and dissolve in the boiling 
water. Strain and add sugar, raspberry juice and lemon. 
Chill in pan of ice water. When quite thick, t>eat with tgg 
whisk until frothy, then add the whites of eggs beaten stiff 
and fold in the whipped cream. 

(Mrs. S. B. McCormick) 



CREAMED RICE WITH BRANDIED FIGS 

2 cups cold boiled rice Vanilla 

1 cup whipped cream Brandied figs 

Take rice and beat with it whipped cream flavored with 
vanilla. Arrange in individual portions, cover top with 
brandied figs and serve with cream. 

115 



RICE SOUFFLE 

Yi cup rice 2 tablespoons butter 

% cup milk 1 teaspoon vanilla 

4 eggs 1 cup Sultana raisins 

2 tablespoons sugar Lemon or orange rind 

Boil rice in 3 cups salted water. Add milk and cook until 
milk is absorbed. Put in yolks of eggs beaten with sugar and 
butter. Cook a moment, remove from fire. Add raisins, vanilla 
and grated rind of a lemon or orange. Fold in the beaten 
whites of eggs and bake in buttered dish 30 minutes. Serve 
hot with a hard sauce. 



MARSHMALLOW CREAM 

% lb. marshmallows 1 tablespoon corn starch 

1 cup whipped cream Red raspberry juice. 






^ cup chopped nuts 



Cut marshmallow in pieces; add whipped cream and nuts; 
stir together and let stand all night. Thicken with corn starch 
and serve with red raspberry juice. 

(Mrs. Edward J. House) 



MANHATTAN PUDDING 

1% cups orange juice ^ cup powdered sugar 

y^ cup lemon juice Vz tablespoon vanilla 

Sugar to taste % cup chopped nuts 
1 pint whipping cream 

Mix fruit juices and sweeten to taste. 

Turn mixture into brick mould. Whip cream and add 
sugar, vanilla, and nut meats. Pour over first mixture to fill 
mould. Cover with greased paper. Fit on cover, pack in salt 
and ice, and let stand for three hours. 

(Mrs. W. J. Holland) 



FROZEN CHERRY PUDDING 

1 pint milk 1 quart whipped cream 
V/i cups sugar 1 large cup rich preserved 

2 eggs cherries 
Vanilla Wine 

2 tablespoons gelatine 

Make custard with milk, eggs, 1 cup sugar and vanilla. 
Add to this gelatine which has been soaked in cold water. 
When cold add whipped cream and 5/2 cup sugar. Flavor with 
wine and when mixture is partly frozen, add preserved cher- 
ries. (Miss Louise M. Richardson) 

116 



MAPLE MOUSSE 

1 cup maple sugar 1 pint cream 

4 eggs Salt 

Heat mapk syrup. Let cool slightly and beat slowly 
into the beaten yolks of eggs and let cook until thick like 
candy. Beat stiffly the whites of the eggs and add to them a 
pinch of salt and creajji, whipped. Let siyrup and yolks cool 
and then fold into the stiffly beaten cream and whites of eggs. 
Pour into mould and pack in ice and salt, 3 to 4 hours. 

(Mrs. C. R. Peddle) 



FROZEN APPLE FLOAT 

3 pints stewed apples Sugar 

1 pint cream Vanilla 

4 eggs 

Put apples through sieve, sweeten to taste and flavor with 
vanilla. Beat this light with tgg, whip and add well beaten 
eggs. Before freezing add the cream. This makes three 
quarts when frozen. (Miss Louise M. Richardson) 



MAPLE ICE CREAM 

1 quart cream 34 lb. pecans 

1 cup maple sugar 

To 1 quart of rich cream add maple sugar, chopped pecans, 
and freeze. 



MAPLE PARFAIT 

1 cup maple syrup 1 pint cream 

4 eggs 

To maple syrup add beaten yolks of eggs. Stir until this 
comes to boil. Strain and cool. Whip cream and add beaten 
whites of eggs. Mix all together and freeze. 

(Mrs. Paul Sturtevant) 



APPLE DUMPLINGS 

Sauce — Make sauce first. 

2 cups sugar (brown and white 2 cups boiling water 

mixed • 1 lemon cut thin and in small 

2 tablespoons flour pieces 

2 tablespoons butter 



PASTRY 

1 pint flour ^ % cup milk 

2 teaspoons baking powder 1 tablespoon, each butter and 
^ teaspoon salt lard 

Roll thin, sprinkle with butter, sugar and cinnamon. Spread 
over this 3 or 4 apples chopped fine and make into a roll. 
Cut into eight dumplings. Pour over them y^ the sauce and 
bake 40 minutes in moderate oven. Serve with the other half 
of sauce, heated. (Mrs. George M. House) 

 

COTTAGE CHEESE CUSTARD PIE 

y2 cup cheese ^ cup sugar 

2 eggs 1 cup milk 

Drop piece of butter here and there on top. Bake in pie 
crust. (Mrs. H. A. Ross) 

RHUBARB PIE 

Crust Filling 

2 cups pastry flour 1^/4 cups cut rhubarb 

y2 cup butter 1 cup sugar 

^k cup lard Mix and add to one beaten ^^'g 

Chop Inrd and butter into flour^ m'x with ice water. Roll 
lightly, fold three or four times, add filling and bake. 

CHERRY PUDDING 

To tvv^o tablespoons of cornstarch mixed to a smooth 
paste with a little cold milk, add two cups of milk and one 
tablespoon of sugar; flavor with the grated peel of one lemon, 
put into a double boiler and boil until it becomes thick; re- 
move from the fire, stir in a cup of canned cherries, let cool, 
then pour into a serving bowl and decorate with some of 
the cherries. Whipped cream is an addition. Other canned 
fruits may be used in place of cherries. 

STRAWBERRY SHORT CAKE 

1 cup sugar 2 cups flour 

% cup butter 2 teaspoons Royal baking pow- 

2 eggs , der 
1 cup milk 

Mix butter and sugar, then well beaten eggs, then m!lk 
and flour and baking powder. Bake in 2 cake pans, >4 pint of 
cream, 2 boxes berrie^. Keep best berries for top, crushintij 
the remaining berries, sweetening to taste an hour .or so be- 
fore serving. (Mrs. H. A. /Ross) 

118 



APPLE POPOVERS 

Yi cup flour Sweet milk, enough to 

1 teaspoon baking powder make soft dough 

1 teaspoon butter 

Slice apples or peaches and put in bottom of cups. Put 
a little sugar, butter and nutmeg on top of fruit. 

Drop mixture over fruit in cups and steam an hour. 

(Mrs. Paul Sturtevant) 

STEAM SUET PUDDING 

1 cup chopped suet 1 teaspoon soda in hot 

1 cup molasses water 

\V2 cups milk Vz teaspoon salt 

1 cup raisins 2 teaspoons cinnamon 

1 cup currants 1 teaspoon cloves 

Yz cup citron 

Graham flour to thicken enough to pour off spoon (not too 
stiff); fill well greased mold and steam 3 hours. 

(Mrs. H. P. Allen) 



When fruit has fermented slightly, reheat it, add a 
small amount to light brown sugar, and use for pies. 



119 



Pie for War Time 



CRUSTS 

RYE PIE CRUST 

1% cups wheat flour 1 teaspoon salt 

1^ cups rye flour 1 scant cup Crisco 

Ice water to mix. It will take about IVs cups. 

Mix dry ingredients and cut shortening in with a knife- 
Add water gradually, using just enough to hold together. 

Roll out, handling as little as possible, 
for several days. (Mrs. Mary R. DeMotte) 

BARLEY 

2 cups barley flour % cuu vegetable oil 

1 teaspoon salt % teaspoon baking powder 

Combine as for other pastry, adding enough water for 
a stiflF dough. 

CORNMEAL AND WHEAT 

^ cup cornmeal * V2 teaspoon salt 

y2 cup wheat flour . 2 tablespoons vegetable oil 

Combine ingredients, using encnp;h liquid to make a dough 
that can be rolled thin. Bake in quick oven. 

OATMEAL 

2 cups finely ground oatmeal 1 teaspoon salt 

1 cup boiling water 2 teaspoons vegetable oil 

Scald the oatmeal with the water. Add the oil and mix 
thoroughly. Roll very thin and line small pie or tart tins 
with the mixture. Bake in a hot oven. 

RICE 

\^^ cups rice flour V2 teaspoon salt 

5^ cup wheat flour Ice water 

% cup crisco 

. Work shortening and flour well together, using the tips 
of the fingers or a knife. Moisten vv'ith ice water and keep 
-n a cool place until ready to use. 

COTTAGE CHEESE RICE PIE CRUST 

V2 cup cottage cheese 1 cup rice flour 

6 tablespoons vegetable oil 6 to 8 tablespoons ice water 
1/2 teaspoon salt 

Cream shortening, salt and cheese very thoroughly to- 
gether, then add flour and blend well. 

CWar Food Bureau. Women's Civic League, Baltimore) 

122 



MINCE MEAT WITHOUT MEAT 

1 pk. green tomatoes chopped 2 teaspoons cinnamon 



2 teaspoons cloves 
1 teaspoon grated nutmeg 
1 teaspoon salt 
% teaspoon pepper 



fine 
2 qts. apples chopped fine 

1 cup suet chopped fine 

2 lbs. raisins 
4 lbs. brown sugar 

Mix all together and cook J/^ hour. Take from stove and 
add 1 large cup of boiled cider or vinepar. Seal in jars while 
hot. (Miss Mary O'Hara Darlington) 

SUGARLESS FILLINGS 

APPLE 

Make an apple sauce, using white syrup instead of sugar; 
fill shells made with war-time pie crust; sprinkle top with 
chopped nuts; place a square of currant jelly in the center of 
each. 

APPLE-RAISIN 

Wash and soak one cup seedless raisins over night; sim-. 
mer in same water for an hour; add one quart peeled quartered 
apples and one-half cup white syrup; simmer together until 
done; fill tart shells made with war-time pie crust. 



ORANGE 



1 cup boiling water 

4 tablespoons cornstarch 

1 large juicy orange 



3 eggs 

% cup white corn syrup 
1 teaspoon lemon juice 



Rub cornstarch smooth with a little cold water, add the 
boiling water and cook for five minutes; add the pulp and 
part of the grated rind of the orange, the syrup and the lemon 
juice; heat thoroughly and pour slowly on the beaten yolks of 
the eggs; beat well: pour into tart shells made with war- 
time pie crust; cover with meringue made from the whites 
of the eggs and flavored with lemon juice: sprinkle witli 
grated lemon peel; brown in oven; serve cold. 



123 



1 



"War Candy" 



NUT BALLS 

% lb. walnut meat % package Karo or Maple Syrup 

Yi lb. seedless raisins Vz package Puffed Rice 

Boil syrup until ready to candy. Chop nuts and raisins 
and add to syrup about 3 minutes before taking from fire. 
Add puffed rice the last thing before turning out on buttered 
platter. Roll into balls the size of a large marble. 

STUFFED FIGS 

Soak figs in sherry over night. Stuff with black walnut 
meats and cherries chopped together. Roll in maple sugar. 

HONEY CANDY 

1 cup strained honey 1 tablespoon butter 

2 cups .brown sugar ^ cup milk 

Boil until it forms a soft ball when tried in cold water. 
Beat until it is thick. Pour into buttered pan. Cut in squares 
and wrap in paraffin paper. 

* 

KARO DIVINITY 

3 cups brown sugar 2 eggs (whites) 
Vi cup Karo 5^ teaspoon salt 

1 square chocolate . 1 cup chopped nuts 

% cup water Vz teaspoon vanilla 

Cook the sugar, Karo and water, until it forms a soft ball 
when tried in water, having added the chocolate melted over 
hot water. Beat the whites of eggs very stiff, and add other 
ingredients. Pour on the hot syrup, beating all the time. 
When mixture will stand alone, drop from teaspoon on but- 
tered plates. The chocolate may be omitted. , 

(Mrs. Frederic I. Merrick) 



« 



POPCORN HAS POWER." 



Popcorn is very valuable as a food. Give the chil- 
dren popcorn balls made with honey or corn syriip. The 
children will be happy and satisfied, and you will be help- 
ing your country by saving on other sweets. 

125 



PUFFED RICE WAR CANDY 

1 cup sugar 3 tablesi^oonsful molasses 

% cup water % teaspoon salt 

1 tablespoon vinegar Boil until drops hard in 

Boil for 5 minutes water. 

Add piece of butter size 

of egg 

Mix puflFed rice previously heated in hot syrup, spread on 
buttered pans to cool. 

STUFFED DATES 

Select nice, solid dates. Seed and fill with any preferred 
nuts. Dip in maple sugar. 

BIAPLE FONDANT 

Boil any desired quantity of maple sugar (1 pt. makes 
about ^ lb) until it rolls into a soft ball when dropped in 
cold water. Pour out on large platter or marble slab. Beat 
with spoon until it can be handled, then knead until it is soft 
and creamy. 

If the fondant is not to be used immediately, place it in 
a covered vessel and keep it in refrigerator or some cool place 
until needed. 

Maple fondant is made and used exactly like the regular 
fondant made from white sugar, and like the white, can be 
made up in numerous ways: 

Stu£Eed Figs — Dates, or any candied or preserved fruits. 

Loaf — Made by kneading into a small loaf or fondant 
chopped nuts, seedless raisins, or chopped dried or candied 
fruits and slicing it with sharp knife. 

Creams — Shape round or oval as desired and garnish with 
nuts, etc. 

Wafers — Remelt fondant in double boiler and drop on 
oiled paper. 

Cream Covered — Grapes, strawberries, nuts, etc., are made 
by dipping iij the fondant that has been remelted in double 
boiler. 

Balls — Shape fondant in balls and roll in finely chopped 
nuts, cocoanut, etc. 



"EAT NATURAL SWEETS IN PLACE 

OF CANDY." 

Eat dates and figs and other sweet fruits. Eat maple 
sugar and honey, where you can get it, instead of candy. 

126 



MAPLE COCOANUT BALLS 

1 fresh cocoanut (grated finely)! lb. Maple Sugar 

Cook maple sugar in the milk from the cocoanut (if milk 
does not measure a full cup add a little water). When the 
candy rolls into a soft ball when dropped in cold water, re- 
move from stove and beat until creamy. 

Add % of grated cocoanut and stir lightly until well mixed 
with candy, pour immediatel,y on large platter or slab until it 
is cool enough to handle. Knead into soft uniform consistency 
and roll into balls about the size of a large marble. As each 
ball is finished roll it in the rem-aining grated cocoanut. Lay 
balls on platter or oiled paper to harden. 

Dry shredded cocoanut may be used if the fresh cannot 
be obtained (the flavor is not nearly so good) and the sugar 
cooked in a cup of water or milk. 

CHOCOLATE MAPLE FUDGE 

1 lb. Maple Sugar Few drops of vanilla if de- 

1 cup milk sired 



1 cup milk 

Yz cake Baker's Chocolate 



Boil milk and sugar until candy rolls into soft ball, when 
dropoed in cold water. When about half done add chocolate, 
stirring constantly to prevent burning. Just before removing 
from* fire add vanilla. Beat until creamy and pour out in 
greased pan to harden. When about half cooled cut into 
squares with a hot knife. 

These are just "Mary Elizabeth's" recipes, gimplified so 
as to be possible for the amateur who does not have a candy 
thermometer or the .many appliances which the professional 
candy maker uses. 

(Miss Letitia Hunter) 

BLACK WALNUT TAFFY 

1 quart New Orleans Molasses 1 cup chopped black walnuts 
1 cup brown sugar Pinch of soda 

1 tablespoon butter 

Boil molasses and brown sugar until it cracks in cold 
water. Add soda.. While cooling add nuts and butter. Pull 
as long as possible. Cut as desired. 

HONEY ROLL 

Vi, cup strained honey 1 cup of either raisins, dates 

1 cup chopped mixed nuts or figs (or mixed) 

If raisins are used carefully remove all seeds. 

Thoroughly mix, put in a mould, placing a weight upon 
it, and let stand 48 hours before cutting in squares. 

127 



CARAMEL FUDGE 

2 cups brown sugar 1 cup milk 

Stir constantliy until it forms a soft ball in cold water. 
Then beat until cold. Pour in pan and cut in squares. 

BROWN SUGAR FUDGE 

2 cups brown sugar 1 tablespoon butter 

1 cup milk 2 oz. chocolate 

% teaspoon of cream of Tartar 

Boil together until it forms a soft ball in cold water. 

When cool add the butter and beat until very stiff. Then 

add 2 or 3 tablespoons of cream, pour in pan and cut in 
squares. 

SEA FOAM 

2 cups light brown sugar Whites of 2 eggs 

1 cup water 

Boil sugar and water together until it forms a soft ball. 
Beat the whites of the eggs very stiff and slowly add the 
boiled syrup. Beat until it will drop from the spoon. 

MOLASSES CANDY 

1 quart New Orleans Molasses 1 tablespoon butter 
1 cup brown sugar Pinch of soda 

Boil sugar and molasses until it will crack in cold water. 
Add butter and soda, cool and pull as long as possible. 

(Mrs. J. M. Thorne) 

POPCORN CANDY 

For making pop-corn candy either honey, maple syrup, 
molasses, white cane syrup or corn syrup may be used instead 
of sugar. To one cup of syrup allow one tablespoon of vine- 
gar. Boil together until syrup hardens when dropped in cold 
water. Pour over freshly poi)2?ed corn and mold into balls or 
fancy shapes. 



I 



128 



f- 



Beverages 

EGG NOG 

1 egg ^ cup milk 

Pinch of salt Vanilla or nutmeg 

Separate egg. Beat yolk, add sugar and salt and beat 
until creamy. Add milk and flavoring. Beat whites until 
foamy, but not dry. Fold in lightly and serve immediately. 

Note — Chill tgg and ijiilk before blending. 

(Miss Rachel C. Aiken) 

MULLED CLARET 

Remove core from an apple, put into oven and bake. Take 
out of oven and fill with sugar and cloves. Tie apple in a 
piece of cheese cloth and drop into 1 quart of claret. Let 
simmer slowly for j^ hour and serve hot. 

A domestic claret may be used. 

(Miss Addah Gerdes) 

MULLED CIDER 

To 1 quart sweet cider, 4 tablespoons sugar, add 1 tea- 
spoon whole cloves and some stick cinnamon tied in piece of 
cheese cloth. Boil together for five minutes and serve steaming 
hot. 

GINGER ALE PUNCH 

1 orange Sprig of mint 

1 lemon 

To 1 bottle of ginger ale add the juice of 1 orange and 1 
lemon. Pour over crushed ice, add sprig of mint, and serve. 

WARTIME-ADE 

5 lemons (juice) 1 bunch mint (leaves) 

ly2 cups sugar % cup water 

Allow to stand 1/2 hour. Strain over ice. Add 3 or 4 pints 
ginger ale. Garnisjj glasses with mint. 

HOT CHOCOLATE 

1 quart milk 2 tablespoons sugar 

1 block chocolate 1 teaspoon vanilla 

Heat milk in double boiler. Dissolve grated chocolate 
and sugar with a little hot water. Add hot milk and beat 
with egg beater, adding vanilla if desired. 

130 



ICED CHOCOLATE 

1 cup corn syrup 2 tablespoons strong coffee 

1 cup warm water Cracked ice 

Yi cup cocoa Cream 

Mix over hot water until dissolved, then boil to a heavy 
syrup. 

When thoroughly chilled add coffee. For 1 glass use 2 
or 3 tablespoons of the mixture to the same amount of cracked 
ice and J4 cup of cream. Shake well. Can be kept on ice 
for several days. (Mrs. Mary R. DcMotte) 

GINGER PUNCH 

Candied ginger and rhubarb juice sweetened, are the chief 
ingredients. 



131 



Preserved Fruits 

FRESH PEACHES 

Wash and boil jars and lids. Peal peaches, cut in halves, 
place in jars. Boil syrup, proportion, 1% cups of sugar to 
3 cups of water. 

Pour syrup over fruit, filling jars. Put lids on without 
screwing tight. Set in boiler with water (to shoulder of jar. 
Boil until the peaches are tender. Have kettle of water boiling 
on the stove. Lift jars out of boiler, dip rubber bands in 
boiling water for a minute, put on jars, fill to overflowing 
with the boiling syrup and screw lids tight. Do not have 
more than 1 jar open at -a time. 

In doing a small amount of fruit, or when working alone, 
it is better to do a few jars at a time. Then while filling 2 
jars the syrup is boiling. Before starting to fill the third jar 
set both kettles off the fire. By the time the third jar is filled, 
the syrup and cooked fruit are both cool enough to handle. 

Plums and small fruits, except blackberries, may be done 
this way. 

It is not necessary to place fruit in cold water to keep 
from discoloring as when hot syrup is poured on. it takes 
away any discoloration. 

PEARS AND QUINCES 

Sterilize jars and lids. 

Prepare fruit and boil in plenty of water until tender. 
Remove fruit from kettle, measure liquid and sweeten in pro- 
portion of 1 cup sugar to 3 cups liquid. Boil syrup 10 min- 
utes. Put fruit in syrup and boil 10 minutes. 

Fill jars and set in boiler with water to shoulder of jars. 
Rubber and lids must be on, but lids not screwed down. 

Cover jars with clean cloth (several thicknesses) and cook 
for an hour. Remove from boiler and tighten tops. 

(Mrs. H. C. McEldowney) 

STRAWBERRY PRESERVES 

1 cup strawberries 2 cups sugar 

Cook 6 minutes after they start to boil. 

PEACH AND PINEAPPLE PRESERVES 

5 lbs. peaches 3^ lbs. sugar to each lb. fruit 

2 lbs. pineapple 

Pare the pineapple and put through the meat grinder. Put 
the sugar and pineapples on the stove and cook slowly. Pare 
the peaches and cut in small dice. Cook the sugar and pine- 
apple until clear aad then add the peaches and cook until 
preserved. (Mrs. W. Seward B. Hays) 

132 



GRAPE MARMALADE 

Pick over, wash, drain and stem grapes. Separate pulp 
from skin. Put pulp in preserving kettle. Heat to boiling 
point and cook slowly until seeds separate from pulp, then 
rub through cheese cloth or hair sieve. Return to kettle with 
skins. Add an equal measure of sugar and cook slowly 30 
minutes, occasionally stirring to prevent burning. Put m 
tumblers or jars. (Mrs. H. A. Ross) 

GOOSEBERRY CHUTNEY 

4 lbs. gooseberries (green) 1 tablespoon ground cloves 

4 lbs. sugar 1 tablespoon cinnamon 

1 pint vinegar A little Cayenne Pepper 

Put the sugar and vinegar on until it boils, then add the 
berries and spices and boil half an hour. You can either put 
them in bottles or jelly cans and cover with paper, like pre- 
serves. (Mrs. H. C. Torrance) 

SPICED CURRANTS 

3 pints currants 1 tablespoon whole cloves 

2 pints sugar 1 tablespoon cinnamon 
1 small cup vinegar 

Cook currants with cloves and cinnamon until soft, 
and strain through cheese cloth. Then measure currants, sugar 
and vinegar. Cook with this several cloves and cinnamon tied 
in a little cheese cloth bag. Cook until it jellys. 

PICKELED PRUNES 

4 lbs. prunes 1 oz. each cloves and cinnamon 

2 lbs. sugar % oz. ginger 

1 pt. vinegar 

• Boil spices, sugar and vinegar together 10 minutes. Soak 
prunes 24 hours and steam 15 minutes. Add apices, vinegar 
and sugar, and boil until clear and fruit tender. 

(Miss Helen Barclay) 

SPICED PEACHES 

9 lbs. peaches Whole cloves 

4 lbs. sugar Stick cinnamon 
1 pt. vinegar 

Put sugar and vinegar in a kettle, boil and skim, after 
which throw in the peaches and cook soft. Lift them out 
and let the juice boil until thick. Put the cinnamon and 
cloves in a muslin bag and boil with the juice. 

(Mrs. Mortimer C. Miller) 
1J3 



. KURNQUAT MARMALADE 

Let the Kurnquats stand in salted water, changing the 
water each morning for three mornings. Dry the fruit and 
slice thin, taking out the seeds, put in preserving kettle with 
enough water to almost cover them, cook twenty minutes, 
then add a scant cup of sugar to a full cup of Kurnquats and 
boil 10 minutes more. Put in glasses. Serve with ice cream 
or ices for dessert. (Mrs. Gilliford B. Sweeny) 

STRAWBERRIES 

Weigh fruit and take an equal weight of sugar. Put sugar 
in kettle with just a little water. Boil until siyrup is thick 
as honey. Put strawberries in syrup. Cook until berries 
are clear. 

Wash and boil jars and lids while fruit is cooking. Fill 
jars to overflowing, dip rubbers in boiling water before using. 
Screw lids tight. 

DELICIOUS STRAWBERRY JAM 

Equal measures, not weight, of strawberries and sugar. 
Mix and let stand over night. Put on to cook, without water. 
Cook 23 minutes from commencement of boiling. Allow to 
cool in kettle. 

Wash and scald glasses just before using, rinse with 
cold water. 

(Mrs. H. C. McEldowney) 

STRAWBERRIES AND CHERRIES 

1 quart strawberries 1 pint water 

1 quart cherries . 1 pound sugar (granulated) 

Make a syrup; nut fruit in and cook about 20 minutes. 

STRAWBERRIES AND PINEAPPLES 

1 quart strawberries, mashed 1 pineapple, grated 

Not quite the amount of sugar that you have fruit. Boil 
seven minutes and seal. 

(Mrs. D. M. Buck) 

RAISIN AND GRAPE MARMALADE 

8 lbs. of ripe grapes lJ/2 lbs. raisins 

4 lbs. sugar 2 oranges 

Pulp grapes (saving the skins) put on to boil until seeds 
rise and can be strained through a colander. Add skins and 
boil 15 minutes. Add sugar, raisins and oranges (including 
peel). Boil three-quarters of an hour. 

(Mrs. E. S. Govdale) 

134 



GRAPE JUICE 

Wash and stem Concord grapes, cover with water, scald 
and strain. To each quart of juice, add one quart of water, 
one cup of sugar; let come to boiling point; bottle and seal, 
seal. 



GRAPE BUTTER 

. Take remaining pulp and wash through sieve, about ^ 
cup water to 2 cups pulp. To each cup of pulp, add same 
amount of sugar. Mix well and cook slowly until thick, 
stirring often. This butter requires much less cooking than 
peach or apple. 

GRAPE JUICE FOR FREEZING 

Take the pulp kft in the sieve and add more water, boil 
and strain. Add equal parts sugar. Boil about 5 minutes making 
a syrup for freezing. 



GRAPE JUICE 

Select fresh Concord grapes — wash, stem, and place in 
vessel with very little water, just enough to start grapes 
cooking. 

Cook until soft, strain through cheese cloth and let 
stand until settled. Pour off, return to stove add small 
amount of sugar, taking care not to sweeten too much as 
more can be added as desired. Barely let come to boil. Pour 
into hot sterilized bottles or jars and seal. Serve with crushed 
ice. Water can be added. 

CANNED RHUBARB 

Prepare and stew as for ordinary table use, but cook a 
shorter time and use half as much sugar and a very small 
amount of water. Put in sterilized jars and seal. When used, 
sugar may be added to taste. 

CANNED PEACHES 

CANNED PEARS 

CANNED SWEET APPLES 

Pare and cut in halves, barely cover with hot water, 
cook until tender, place in sterilized jars standing in hot 
water. 

Strain water in which fruit was cooked. With this water 
ane one-half amount of sugar, make a syrup and pour over 
fruit while hot. Seal. 

Note.^ — Prepare and cook enough for one jar at a time. 

135 



It 



STUFFED PEACHES 

Select choice, large fruit. Prepare, cook and make ayrup 
as above. After removing from water, fill centers with can- 
died ginger, pineapple, cherries, raisins, etc., and nuts chopped 
fine. Tie halves together with coarse thread. Place in hot 
sterilized jars, pour hot syrup over peaches, filling jar. Place 
lid on jar, do not seal tight at first. Put jars in very slightly 
heated oven with oven door partly open. Leave for 1 hour. 
Remove and seal. 

CANNED YELLOW RASPBERRIES 

Make a rich syrup and keep hot. Select perfect berries, 
wash and stem. Place in sterilized jars, pour hot syrup 
over berries, filling jar. Place lid on jar, do not seal tight 
at first. Put jars in very slightly heated oven with oven 
door partly open. Leave for 2 or 3 hours. Remove and seal. 

Red raspberries and grapes may be canned in same way. 

(Mrs. S. A. Pickering) 

CHERRIES FOR PIE 

Seed by hand and carefully prepare sour red cherries, 
in proportion of ^ fruit to % sugar. Let both simmer un- 
til they boil, then cook rapidly for about ten minutes. Put 
in sterilized jars and seal. 

ADDITION OF SALT TO PEACHES AND PLUMS 

The addition of salt to peaches and plum preserves gives 
a richness of flavor that the fruit seems to lack when pre- 
served. 

TO TEST FRUIT FOR PECTIN 

Some fruits are lacking in pectin, .the component which 
is necessary to make them "jell." To test fruit juices for 
the necessary amount of pectin, add a small amount of a 
15 per cent solution of grain alcohol to an equal amount of 
the fruit juice. If mixture remains clear, it will not "jell," 
but if it becomes murky when cooled, it has sufficient pectin. 
Fruits that lack it, very often are supplied with a sufficient 
amount of pectin by adding a medium sliced carrot to every 
quart of juice. The carrots do not affect the taste. 

(Mrs. D. M. Buck) 



1J6 



Canned Vegetables 

RECIPE FOR PUTTING UP CORN 

Cut corn from cob 2 cups of water 

9 cups of corn Cup of salt 
2 cups of sugar 

Put all in kettle on the fire. After it comes to boiling 
point, cook five minutes, stirring often. 

Fill the jars at once while hot. 

Before cooking for eating, wash the corn well in cold 
water. Let it soak in cold water three hours. Changing the 
water. Just before serving put on fire, let come to boiling 
point. Drain off water, dress with a little cream and butter. 
(No salt). 

PUTTING UP CORN 

10 cups corn 1 cup sugar 
1 cup salt 

Mix sugar and salt with the corn and place • on back 
of stove until enough milk or juice is drawn to cook it. 
Then place on front of stove. Cook for 12 minutes after 
it has begun to boil. Then pack tight in jars which are 
sterilized. Screw lids tight after testing the rubber. 

When ready to use boil off with one or two waters until 
just salt enough to suit taste. 

(Mrs. William Watson Smith) 

CANNED CORN 

10 cups corn 1 generous cup sugar 

Yz cup water 1 scant cup of salt 

Let stand on low flame until heated, and draw water, 
then put over higher flame and boil ten minutes. Put in air 
tight jars. Before using soak 3 or 4 hours and dress with 
a cream sauce. 

(Mrs. H. A. Ross) 

CANNED GREEN PEPPERS 

Prepare by removing seeds. Cut in strips or leave whole. 
Blanch by dipping in hot water for 2 or 3 minutes, then 
immediately into cold water. Pack in jars — fill jar with boil- 
ing water, add a level teaspoon salt. Sterilize 90 minutes. 

(Mrs. Thos. J. Gillespie) 



Buy empty flour sacks by the dozen from your grocer, 
to use for dish towels. 



138 



CANNED EGG PLANT 

Pare and cut in round slices egg plant. Place in cheese 
cloth and dip in boiling water for 2 or 3 minutes, then place 
immediately in cold water. Pack in jar, fill jar with boil- 
ing water, add 1 teaspoon salt. Place in steamer, steam for 
30 minutes. 

DRIED EGG PLANT 

Pare and cut the egg plant into slices about a quarter of 
an inch thick, lay over platters and place in a moderate oven 
until dry; keep in covered vessels. 

To Cook 

Soak in water for about 2 hours, then parboil 10 minutes 
with a little baking soda in the water, dry it with a towel, 
dip in eggs and in bread or cracker crumbs and fry. 

(Mrs. W. Seward B. Hays) 



139 



Putting up Vegetables 

THE SUCCESS LIES IN SANITARY PRECAUTIONS AND 

THOROUGH STERILIZING 

JARS 

Use Atlas or Ball Mason Jars. These should be in per- 
fect condition, no nicks around mouth, an even thread at 
neck, so that lid can screw perfectly tight. 

INSPECTION 

Should be thorough, and imperfect jars discarded. Many 
are rough around edge at opening; file off parts extending 
over edge, which might prevent lid from screwing tight. 

WASHING 

Thoroughly cleanse by making a very hot soapy water. 
Put a little water in each jar, with a small amount of bak- 
ing soda to sweeten. Wash in the suds, rinse several times 
in clear hot water. Fill jar with clear cold water, place in 
boiler. Then fill boiler with cold water to half the depth of 
jar. When it starts to boil let it continue until jars are thor- 
oughly sterilized, about twenty minutes to a half hour. Turn 
out the fire, leaving jars in boiler until ready to use them. 
Take out a jar at a time to fill. 

WATER 

Distilled or boiled water should be used for cooking. 

TO BOIL OR STERILIZE WATER 

Place in clean vessel necessary amount of cold water. 
Let boil a few minutes; after which remove from the stove, 
cover, and let get cold. 

RUBBER BANDS 

Use thick white bands. These should be dipped in hot 
water and dried as used. 

LIDS 

Should be perfect, in most cases, new. Cleanse by wash- 
ing, same as jars. Place on stove in vessel of cold water, 
let boil, take from boiling water as used. Shake lids in order 
to get all the water out. Do not dry. 

140 



PREPARING VEGETABLES 

Beans, peas and carrots should be prepared as for the table. 

Beets should be pared like potatoes. If small, leave 
whole; if large, cut in two or four pieces. 

Corn should be cut off the ear. 

Tomatoes: Scald, remove skin, and quarter. 

String beans should not be cut. Snap or break. Very 
young beans can be put up whole. 

Beans too old to be tender left on the vine until reedy 
to shell, should be put up like peas or lima beans. So pre- 
pared they are delicious ahd afford a good substitute for pota- 
toes. 

CORN 

« 

Cut from cob. Take jar from^ boiling water, empty, put 
into it two tablespoons of corn. Take a large cob from 
which corn has been cut, press corn in jar with this until 
milk comes out. Keep putting in the corn and pressing it 
down in this manner until the jar is full, at which time the 
corn will be covered with its own milk. Place rubber band and 
lid on jar, put in boiler and steam the same as other vege- 
tables. Corn will sometimes steam out around the lid; but 
this does no harm, it can be washed off after lid is screwed 
tight, ^ust before applying scaling wax. 

T 

TOMATOES 

Prepare, cook on top of stove from one to two hours, 
according to amount; after they have cooked some time, sea- 
son well with salt. Cook the water out. This makes them 
quite strong, but water can be added before using. 

PUTTING VEGETABLES IN JARS 

When prepared, wash thoroughly in two or three waters. 
Take jars from boiler one at a time, as required. Empty 
the water, and fill immediately with the thoroughly washed 
vegetables. Put in the salt, then fill the jar with distilled 
ot sterilized water, place rubber band on jar, then the lid. 
Do not screw too tight — ^just enough to keep in the steam 
when boiling. 

When all jars are removed from boiler, empty any water 
which may be left. Place filled jars back in boiler and fill it 
with cold water, within one inch of the rubber band. Put 
lid on boiler and steam the required time with just enough 
fire . to keep an even boiling point. Time is counted from 
the moment the water in boiler begins to boil, not from 
the time it was put on the stove. When finished, turn out 
the fire, remove lid from boiler. t(^ let out the steam and 
screw lids as tight as possible whne jars are still in the 
boiler. Lift out one at a time with perfectly sterile tea 
towels, place on table, screw lids still tighter. When all 
jars are removed from the boiler go over them again and 

141 



again and make sure lids are tight. Keep rubber band, which 
the heat has probably softened, well under lid all around so 
that it does not slip out, while the lid is being screwed. 
When lids are tight paste with red sealing w^ax as a further 
safeguard. 

"GOVERNMENT SUGGESTION" 

To retain natural color blanching maty be added to the 
process for putting up vegetables. 

To blanch: After vegetables are prepared and thoroughly 
washed, place in cheese cloth. Dip into boiling water for 
2 or 3 minutes, then in ice cold water, after which place im- 
mediately into hot sterilized jar. 

Refer to "Putting Vegetables in Jar." 

SEALING WAX 

Place in a can red sealing wax, let melt and apply to 
jar while both are hot. Use an old casement knife for put- 
ting on the wax. Seal all around lid, covering both edges 
of the rubber band and the lid. 

BOILER 

Regular wash boiler, — new one used only for the pur- 
pose. Select one with a tight-fitting lid so as to keep in 
the steam. Have a wooden rack (slat or lattice) made to 
fit bottom of boiler. . In this way one can steam from twelve 
to sixteen jars at a time. It is preferable for this reason to 
the regular steamer. 

PUTTING JARS IN BOILER 

Place upon rack in boiler so that theiy do not touch each 
other. Otherwise they are likely to crack. 

LENGTH OF TIME FOR STEAMING 

*Peas, 2 to 2J/2 hours 
♦Lima Beans, 2j4 to 3 hours 
♦String beans, 3 hours 
♦Shelled Beans, 3 hours 
♦♦Carrots, 2^ to 3 hours 
♦♦Beets, 3 hours 
♦♦Corn, 21/2 to 3 hours 

♦^4 teaspoonful of salt to pint jar 
♦♦No salt 

142 



IMPORTANT 

When jars are filled and sealed, do not turn upside down 
or tip in the least. As far as possible keep contents from 
coming in contact with lid during process of applying sealing 
wax. marking, etc. 

When finished, wrap jars in paper, still keeping them up- 
right. Put away in cool, dark place. 

Please note that vegetables put up in this way are kept 
pure. No acids or foreign substances being used, except the 
salt, which is only, used in those mentioned. 

These recipes have been successfully tried for several 
years with gratifying results. The writer does not hes'.tate 
to recommend theni if followed to the letter. 

(Mrs. S. A. Pickering) 

DRIED CORN 

Cook on cob as for table. Cut from cob, spread rather thin 
on pie, biscuit or cake pans, set in oven which has been 
previously used and is still hot, but with no fire. It can also 
be placed on any part of the range where it will dry but not 
cook. Stir occasionally so that it will dry thoroughly. When 
perfectly dry place in clean muslin bag. Corn which has been 
boiled for the table can be utilized in this way. 

HOW TO COOK DRIED CORN 

Soak 1 cup of corn over night. Place in double boiler, 
cover with water, cook about 4 hours, season to taste. 

Corn soup is made in same manner by adding water, milk 
or cream. If made without milk or cream, season and thicken 
to taste. Serve with whipped cream and a sprinkling of pop 
corn. 

A corn pudding may be made with the corn after soup 
is strained off. 

Fruits may be dried in like manner, omitting cooking. 



143 



Relishes and Pickles 



CHOW CHOW 

2 qts. celery stalks cut up 2 heads cauliflower broken in 

2 qts. cucumbers cut fine small pieces 

2 qts. small white onions 10 red peppers, take out seeds 

2 qts. small pickles cut up and cut in fine pieces 

Put all above in following brine: 
2 cups salt 2 gals, water 

Let stand 24 hours. Scald thoroughly in same brine .and 
drain. 

Dressing 

2 tablespoons Coleman mustard 2 cups flour 

2 tablespoons) tumeric powder 8 cups brown sugar 

Mix with 3 quarts vinegar and scald until smooth. Add 
the pickle to dressing, red. pepper and mustard seed. Seal while 
hot. 

CORN SAUCE 

1 doz. ears corn 5c worth celery seed 

2 small heads cabbage 5c worth tumeric powder 
2 cups sugar 5c worth mustard seed 

5 red peppers J/^ gal wine vinegar 

2 large bunches celery 

Salt to taste. Cook until done. 

(Mrs. E. V. Babcock) 



SPANISH PICKLE 

2 doz. large cucumber pickles 3 small heads of cabbage 

(just yellow). Scrape out 8 large onions 

seeds 9 red peppers 
% pk. green tomatoes 

Chop all fine. Put in split basket over night to drain, 
sprinkling with salt. In the morning, put in an iron pot and 
add: 

3 oz. mustard seed \% oz. tumeric 

1^ oz. celery seed J/^ lb. mustard (Coleman) 

3 lbs. brown sugar 

Cover thoroughly with vinegar and let cook 4 or 5 hours. 

144 



SPICED PICKLE 

5 large sour pickles cut in %- 2 cups sugar 

inch slices 1 teaspoon whole cloves 

Place in glass jar and shake once a day for a week before 
ready for use. (Miss Helen Barclay) 

CUCUMBER SAUCE 

1 doz. large cucumbers 1 oz. ground mustard 
% pk. onions 1 doz. red peppers 

2 oz. mustard seed 1 tablespoon celery seed 

Chop the cucumbers and onions fine. Put (alternately) a 
lawyer of cucumbers and 1 of onions, salting each. Drain over 
night with heavy weight to press out the water. In the morn- 
ing scald in good vinegar, enough to cover them. Add the 
red peppers chopped fine, mustard, etc., stirring thoroughly, 
and then add the following sauce: 

4 ep^ofs 1 tablespoon mustard 

^ cup butter Pinch of red pepper 

y2 cuo sugar 1 cup cream 
% tablespoon salt 

Cream, butter, sugar and condiments. Then add 4 eggs, 
1 at a time. Lastly add \ cup of cream. Have 1J4 pints of 
vinegar. Stir all into it, allowing all to come just to the boiling 
point, then stir this into the hot cucumbers. It is then ready 
to put into jars. 

Do not pare the cucumbers. 

(Mrs. H. C. Torrance) 

SLICED CUCUMBER PICKLE 

50 small cucumbers 1 cup mustard seed 

% lb. small onions 2 tablespoons tumeric 

12 small red peppers sliced long 1 gallon cider vinegar 

6 tablespoons mustard % pound brown sugar 
4 tablespoons flour 

Slice cucumbers and put in salt over night. Drain in 
morning. Boil dressing. Put in cucumbers, onions and peppers 
and boil until cucumbers are clear. 

COLD TOMATO CATSUP 

^ peck ripe tomatoes (scald) 1 cup sugar 

arid remove skins, draining 1 cup of mustard seeds 

water through a colander. 1 small cup salt 

3 roots of horse-radish grated 1 tablespoon of black pepper 

6 stalks of celery cut fine 1 tablespoon mace 
1 cup of onions cut fine 1 tablespon cloves 

4 or 6 red sweet peppers seed- 3 pts. of vinegar: If too thin 

ed and cut fine do not use all of vinegar 

Seal in air tight jars. Ready for use in a few weeks. 

(Mrs. H. A. Ross) 

145 



TOMATO CATSUP 

3 gal. tomatoes, skinned 1 small half-cup salt 

1 doz. onions 2 tablespoons allspice 

1% gal. vinegar 3^2 cups brown sugar or more 

1 tablespoon cayenne pepper to taste 

1 small half-cup mustard 

Boil tomatoes and onions together until smooth and strain 
through a sieve. Then boil strained tomatoes and vinegar until 
thick enough to serve on meats. Add sugar and spices to taste, 
bottle and seal. This will keep for several years. 

(Mrs. Joseph H. Moore) 



PEPPER HASH 

1 doz. gre'en peppers 3 tablespoons salt 

1 doz. red peppers 2 pints vinegar 

1 doz. medium onions 2 cups sugar 

Chop peppers and onions fine or put through meat chop- 
per. Cover with boiling water, let stand 10 minutes, drain, 
cover again, let come to boil, let stand 10 minutes, drain dry. 
Then add other ingredients. Cook 15 minutes and pack in 
small jars. (Mrs. W. L. Davis) 



CHOPPED PICKLE 

% pk. green tomatoes chopped 1 doz. large cucumbers, chopp- 
fine ed fine 

1 medium head cabbage chopp- 10 large onions, chopped fine 

ed fine 

Put in stone jar together with 1 large cup of salt. Cover 
with equal parts vinegar and water. Let stand over night, 
then drain all liquid and put back in jar. Then add: 

10 large sweet peppers (chopped 4 oz. mustard seed 
seeds and all) 4 oz. celery seed 

2 lb. granulated sugar 

Cover with good cider vinegar. It is ready for use the 
next day. (Mrs. James P. Silliman) 



HOME MADE VINEGAR 

3 gal. water 2 cakes yeast 

3 lbs. brown sugar 3 pieces toast 

Heat 1 gallon of water and sugar together until sugar is 
dissolved, then add the remaining 2 gallons of water and cool. 
Take the 3 pieces of toast and spread the yeast over them, 
then put the toast in the mixture and set away for 6 weeks, 
then use. Particularly good for salads. 

146 



CHILI SAUCE 

% pk. tomatoes 5^ teaspoon mace 

3 large onions Vi teaspoon cinnamon 

4 large sweet peppers iz teaspoon allspice 

3 cups sugar V2 teaspoon red pepper 

4 cups vinegar 2 tablespoons salt 
y2 teaspoon cloves 

Scald tomatoes, skin and quarter. Grind onions and pep- 
pers. Boil tomatoes, onions, peppers, sugar, salt and vinegar 
for 1 hour. Add spices and boil 1 hour or more until water 
does not collect around, edges. 

(Mrs. H. A. Ross) 



MIXED PICKLES IN MUSTARD DRESSING 

6 qts. cucumber, small ones, 1 qt. string beans 

whole large, large ones, cut 1 qt. carrots cu/t in halves, 

in dice quarters and dice 

6 qts. cauliflower cut in good 5 large red peppers 

sized pieces 5 green peppers 

1 qt. lima beans A few nasturtium seeds 

1 qt. small onions 

A tiny ear of corn or any desired vegetable may be added. 

Prepare vegetables with care, separately. Put each in salt 
water over night. Drain and rinse in cold water. Scald the 
cucumbers in % vinegar and % water, to which has been added 
% teaspoon powdered alum or a small piece of alum. The 
other vegetables should be cooked separately in weaken3d vine- 
gar until easily pierced with a fork. They must not be too 
soft. 



Mustard Dressing 

2 cups sugar 1 cup flour 

2 tablespoons salt 1 qt. water 

2% cups Coleman's mustard 2 oz. whole mixed spices 

5 qts. vinegar tumeric 

Mix sugar, salt and mustard into smooth paste with a 
little vinegar. Strain mixture through sieve into the cold vine- 
gar. Stir on top of stove until it boils. Mix flour and water 
very smooth. Stir into the vinegar mixture till consistency 
of heavy cream, add tumeric until a golden color. 

Put all the drained vegetables into a large vessel. Add 
spices. Pour mustard dressing over them. Set on stove and 
heat. Keep off bottom of vessel, but do not mash the vege- 
tables. Put in hot jars and seal. 

Pickles of cauliflower may be put up in like manner. 

(Mrs. Edwin D. Witt Adams) 

147 



SLICED CUCUMBERS 

1 cup olive oil 1 tablespoon celery seed 

Yi. cup mustard seed 1 tablespoon whole pepper 

Select medium sized solid cucumbers. Pare and slice thiu. 
Sprinkle with salt, let stand over night, then drain and put in ^ 

sterilized jars. Cover them with strong cold cider vinegar, 
leaving a little space in jar to be filled with above mixture. ^ 

Place 1 tablespoon .of mixture in each jar. This serves as a 
seal as well as a dressing. Serve with fish. 

Use perfectly fresh cucumbers. 

(Mrs. S. A. Pickering) 

PICKLED ONIONS 

Prepare small white onions. Place in bowl, sprinkle a 
little salt over each layer of onion. Add a small amount of 
water, let stand over night. Drain, wash off with cold water. 
Cook in weakened vinegar to which has been added a lump of 
alum the size of a pea. Lift out with strainer and put into 
jars. Place 2 small red peppers in each jar, pour over all hot 
strong white vinegar spiced with ginger, mustard seed, etc. 
Use only whole white spices. 

COLD CUCUMBER PICKLES 

1 gallon of vinegar 1 cup salt 

1 cup sugar (brown is best) 1 cup Coleman's mustard 

Wash cucumbers in cold water, pack in jars. Spices may 
be added and fresh Dill if desired. Mix dry ingredients 
and vinegar together until smooth and pour over cucumbers. 
Keeps indefinitely. (Mrs. W. L. Davis) 



148 



Miscellaneous 



SUET (Rendered for Frjring) 

3 lbs. kidney suet 2 cups boiling water 

Cut suet into small pieces, put in large frying pan, add 
water. Cover and let boil slowly until it stops bubbling and 
begins to smoke, then place over a very slow fire for about 
15 minutes. Strain in a kettle through several thicknesses of 
cheese cloth, stand away until wanted for use. This is better 
than lard for all deep frying as well as sauteing. 

(Mrs. D. L. Gillespie) 

BUTTER 

1 pt. milk 1 lb. of diced butter 

Place in churn, put on the top and let stand in luke warm 
water 5 minutes or until mixture feels slightly warm to the 
hand. Remove churn from the water and churn about 3 
minutes. This makes 2 pounds of sweet butter. 

If you prefer, salt maiy be added. 

(Mrs. W. C. Carroll) 

PACKING BUTTER FOR WINTER USE 

Buy best creamery butter in early September. Knead 
about a pound or two at a time as you would bread in a 
wooden bowl, pouring water off as it is worked out. After 
all has been taken out pack a pound or pound and a half as 
you wish, in old muslin cloths about 12 inches square, put- 
ting butter in center, turning up opposite corners, being care- 
ful that butter is well covered. After all has been packed in 
cloths, make a salt brine strong enough to float an egg, of 
table salt and ice water. Then put an old. plate on bottom of 
stone crock. Pack your squares of butter. Then a olate on 
top with a heavy stone on it. Then pour the salt brine over 
all and keep in cool place, well covered. Change br^ne eyery 
four weeks. (Mrs. H. A. Ross) 

PACKING EGGS FOR WINTER USE— No. 1 

Yz pt. coarse salt 8 qts. of sterilized water 

% fresh slacked lime 

Mix the ingredients the day before, stirring occasionally 
so that the lime and salt are dissolved. Place a plate, bottom 
side up, on bottom of an 8 gallon stone crock and drop egRS 
as you wish, or all at a time, keeping well covered. This will 
take care of 15 dozens. 

No. 2 

One quart of silicate of soda or water glass, nine quarts 
of sterilized water. 

Mix and stir thoroughly before dropping eggs in crock, 
point down. Keep well covered. This will take care c^t 15 
dozens in an 8 gallon crock. Any egg floating on top shoulJ 
be taken out as it is not absolutely fresh, and w'll not kee^). 

150 



BAKING POWDER 

1 lb. corn starch 1 lb. soda 

1 lb. cream of tartar 

Sift 25 times through flour sifter. Keep air tight. 

(Mrs. C. I. McKee) 

SILVER CLEANER 

Use an enameled or granite pan with inner surface with- 
out a flaw exposing the metal, and of a size suitable for the 
silver to be cleaned in it. 

Have a piece of pure zinc large enough to cover, or nearly 
cover, the bottom of the pan. To every 4 quarts of clear watev 
add 3 tablespoons each of salt and of baking soda. 

Let this solution become hot and then lay in the silver, 
allowing it to remain about 10 minutes. Take out, rinse in 
clear water, and wipe with a soft towel. 

If the water is not deep enough to cover the large pieces 
they can be laid on one side for a few minutes, and then 
the other side submerged. 

(Mrs. H. C. Newcomer) 

BRASS POLISH 

5c worth tripoli 1 qt. cold water 

5c worth oxalic acid 

Place in a quart bottle and shake. Apply with flannel cloth. 

WHITE SOAP— No. 1 

Put 5 pounds of fat into large kettle with a gallon of 
water. Heat until grease is entirely melted. Set aside until 
cold, when grease will be hard. Take the grease cake from 
top of water, scrape off any brown particles, place into kettle 
to melt. Into a granite pan put 3 cups of cold water and stir 
into this 1 can Red Seal or Babbitt's Lye. Stir with wooden 
spoon until dissolved. Remove grease from fire and pour 
slowly into the lye water, stirring constantly. Add 2 table- 
spoons ammonia and 2 tablespoons powdered borax. Stir mix- 
ture constantly until it begins to set about as thick as honey. 
Pour into pan lined with several thicknesses of wet paper. 
Cut into cakes when hard enough. 

This makes 12 cakes. Keep for a month or longer before 
using. 

WHITE SOAP— No. 2 

5 lbs. clarified fat \^k, teaspoon borax 

\y2 qts. cold water Yz cup ammonia 

1 can lye 

151 



TOILET SOAP 

1 lb. cottonseed oil 10 drops lavender and oil of 

^ lb. white lard geranium 

10 teaspoons lye 

Melt lard in oil, add lye, and when cool, add the scent. 
Stir constantly to make soap smooth. 

MAKE SOAP OF FAT UNFIT FOR COOKING 

Use lye made by letting water drip slowly through wood 
ashes, or buy lye in cans. Use porcelain or enamel dish. 
Dissolve 1 can lye in 1 quart cold water. Melt 5 pounds fat 
in separate dish. Strain throiTgh 2 thicknesses of cheese cloth. 
Cool till luke warm. Add dissolved, cooled lye. Stir until 
mixture is like porrjdge. Pour quickly into shallow pasteboard 
boxes or dripping pan. When cool, crease into cakes. Cut 
when nearly cold. 

DON'T WASTE ANY SOAP 

Save pieces of soap too small to handle, melt them in a 
little water over a slow fire, use in w:ashing dishes or boiling 
clothes. 



Put all bits of soap into a cheese cloth bag. It can 
be used like a cake of soap. 



152 



HOUSEHOLD HINTS 

A little salt rubbed on the cups will take out tea stains. 
When fish are fresh the skin and scales will be bright, the 
eyes full and clear, the fins stiff, and the body firm. 

When making juicy fruit or berry pies, insert in the top 
crust a small funnel of paper, or a piece of macaroni, which 
allows the steam to escape and prevents the juice boiling over. 

Berry and fruit stains can be removed easily by holding 
the cloth tightly over the top of a bowl and pouring boiling 
water very slowly through the stains. Remove grease stains 
by saturating the spots with alcohol rather than benzine. Alco- 
hol does not leave a ring around the spot when dry. Wash with 
cold water. 

To remove ink stains from the fingers moisten them with 
warm water, then rub the sulphur end of a match well over the 
stains and they will disappear. 

White spots on a varnished surface will disappear if a hot 
flat iron is held over them for a second. 

To clean wire screens dampen a cotton cloth with kerosene 
and rub on both sides. They will look like new and it also 
helps to keep the flies away. 

If you wish to keep your desserts right on the ice, place a 
newspaper over the ice, and the dishes will not slip off or tip 
over. 

Lemons that have become hard from long standing can be 
made usable by covering them with boiling water for a few 
minutes. 

Heat a lemon thoroughly before squeezing it and you will 
secure nearly double the quantity of juice that you would if 
it were not heated. 

Apples will not turn black when pared if dropped into water 
to which has been added a few drops of lemon juice. 

Remember when putting meat in. the ice chest not to place 
it against the ice, as ice draws the flavor from meat. 

A few drops of lemon juice or vinegar added to the water in 
which cauliflower is to be cooked will greatly preserve its 
whiteness. 

To hasten the baking of potatoes let them stand a few 
minutes in warm water after washing them. 

If by mistake you get the soup too salty add a few slices 
of raw potatoes and cook a few minutes. The potatoes will 
take up much of the surplus salt. Small pieces of toasted bread 
will also have the same effect. 

A few drops of lemon juice makes cake frosting white, 
and a little flour put over the top of a cake will prevent the 
icing from running. 

Meringue should be browned in a slow oven, otherwise it 
will fall when exposed to the air. 

When frying chickens or fish, to avoid the grease spattering, 
sift in a tiny lot of flour just before putting them in. 

A bit of sugar dissolved in the water in which cut flowers 
are kept is an English way of keeping the blossoms fresh. 

153 



RULES FOR SUBSTITUTION 

The Food Administration of Allegheny County suggests 
the following general rules for use by those persons who wish 
to adapt the standard recipes to war time conditions by substi- 
tuting for the food elements which are desired for export the 
substitutes recommended by the FoK)d Administration. These 
substitutes fall in three general classes. 

(1) Corn syrup, molasses or soft sugars instead of granulated 
sugar. 

(2) Vegetable fats instead of butter or lard. 

(3) Cereal substitute flours and meals instead of wheat flour. 

(1) In sulbstituting for granulated sugar in standard 
recipes, corn syrup may 'be substituted for one-half of the granu- 
lated sugar by measure, reducing the other liquids in the recipe 
by J4 to 5^ of the amount of corn syrup used. If syrup is used 
to furnish all the sweetening, it makes an undesirably heavy 
product. Raisins, citron and other fruits can be used to fur- 
nish a portion of the sweetness. In using molasses and maple 
syrup, follow the same rule. 

Soft light brown sugars may of course be used in the 
place of the granulated sugar in equal measure, making a slight 
allowance for the smaU liquid content in the soft sugars. 

(2) Vegetable fats may be substituted for butter in biscuits 
and muffins in the proportion of one to two tablespoons of 
vegetable oil or hardened vegetable fats for each J4 cup of 
butter. In substituting for lard, use an equal quantity of 
vegetable oil or hardened vegetable fats. 

(3) With some care and thought the various flour and 
cereal substitutes may be substituted for a large portion of the 
flour in the standard recipes. (Instead of endeavoring to change 
bread recipes, tested bread recipes containing the proper mix- 
tures should be secured. A higher percentage of the substitutes 
can properly be used in "Quick Breads," particularly where 
eggs are used. In baking, the gluten in wheat hardens and 
makes the mass porous. To a certain extent, eggs in "Quick 
Breads," where substitutes are used for wheat, accomplish the 
same object.) 

Substitute cereal flours and meals may be substituted suc- 
cessfully, pound for pound, for most of the wheat flour in "Quick 
Bread" recipes, such as muffins, biscuits, griddle cakes, waffles, 
etc. As the housewife does not make her recipes by weight, 
however, but by measure, it is necessary to indicate the amount 
by measure of the cereal flours and meals which should be used. 
The following is an illustration of the proper proportion of 
substitution in a standard recipe calling for two cups of wheat 
flour. 

154 



INSTEAD OF TWO (2) CUPS OF WHEAT FLOUR USE 

(1) Barley muffins — ^ cup wheat flour, 2^' cups barley flour. 

(2) Buckwheat muffins — Yt. cup wheat flour, 1^4 cups buck- 
wheat flour. 

(3) Corn muffins — % cup wheat flour, 1^^ cups corn flour. 

(4) Cornmeal muffins — 5^ cup wheat flour, Ij/^ cups cornmeal 
(fine) 

Cornmeal muffins — % cup wheat flour, 1% cups corn- 
meal (coarse) 

(5) Rice muffins — 5^2 cup wheat flour, Vk cups rice meal 
(coarse) 

The important thing is to observe the varying proportions 
of the different flours and meals. 

Note that the amount of wheat flour plus the amount of 
substitute flour does not always equal the two cups of wheat 
flour in the Standard recipe on account of the varying weights 
per cup .of the suggested substitutes. 

If it is desired to use cooked cereals in making muffins, 
griddle cakes or waffles, it would be 'best to follow the recipes 
in any standard cook book with the proper substitution sug- 
gested above for butter and sugar. 

UNITED STATES FOOD ADMINISTRATION 

for Allegheny County. 



155 



WEIGHTS AND MEASURES 

16 drams 1 ounce 

16 ounces 1 pound 

1 teaspoon 60 drops 

3 teaspoons 1 tablespoon 

4 tablespoons. ..1 wine glass, H gill or % cup 

4 salt spoons 1 teaspoon 

16 tablespoons 1 cup 

2 gills 1 cup 

2 cups 1 pint 

2 pints 1 quart 

4 quarts 1 gallon 

2 tablespoons Crisco 1 ounce 

1 tablespoon butter 1 ounce 

2 tablespoons salt : 1 ounce 

4 tablespoons pepper 1 ounce 

2 tablespoons sugar 1 ounce 

4 tablespoons flour 1 ounce 

2 tablespoons liquid 1 ounce 

1 square chocolate 1 ounce 

3 tablespoons grated chocolate 1 ounce 

% cup chopped nuts (blanched) 1 ounce 

1 cup currants % pound 

1 cup crumbs % pound 

4% cups coffee 1 pound 

35/2- cups confectioners' sugar 1 pound 

A^/z cups graham flour 1 pound 

2 ^ cups oatmeal 1 pound 

5 cups rolled oats 1 pound 

4% cups rye meal 1 pound 

1 Yi cups rice 1 pound 

2% cups dry beans 1 pound 

2 cups granulated sugar 1 pound 

2% cups brown sugar 1 pound 

2% cups powdered sugar 1 pound 

1 cup (volume) 8 ounces 

1 cup water 8% ounces 

1 pint butter 1 pound 

1 quart flour 1 pound 

9 medium or 10 small eggs 1 pound 

4% teaspoons cinnamon 1 ounce 

4 tablespoons cloves 1 ounce 

4 tablespoons mace 1 ounce 

4 tablespoons mustard 1 ounce 

2 tablespoons olive oil 1 ounce 

% cup chopped suet 1 ounce 

TABLE OF PROPORTIONS 
cup liquid to 3 cups flour for bread 
cup liquid to 2 cups flour for muffins 
cup liquid to 1 cup flour for batters 
teaspoon soda to 1 pint sour milk 
teaspoon soda to 1 cup molasses 
54 teaspoon salt to 4 cups custard 
2 teaspoons salt to 4 cups water 
]/i teaspoon salt to 1 cup white sauce 
% teaspoon pepper to 1 cup white sauce 
2 heaping teaspoons baking powder to 1 quart flour 

1S6 



Ind 



ex 



ACCESSORIES FOR SALADS 

Cheese Balls 71 

Cheese Rolls , 71 

Cheese Wafers 71 

Cornmeal Crisp (Salad Wafers) 71 

Corn Sticks 71 

BEVERAGES 

Egg Nog 130 

Ginger Punch 131 

Ginger Ale Punch » 130 

Hot Chocolate 130 

Iced Chocolate 131 

Mulled Claret 130 

Mulled Cider 130 

Wartime-Ade 130 

BREADS 

Barley Bread 14 

Eatter Bread 11 

Berkshire Muffins 19 

Bird's Nest 18 

Blueberry Muffins 20 

Boston Brown Bread 13 

Bositon Brown Bread Without Milk 13 

Boston Brown Bread 13 

Bran Bread (One Loaf) 14 

Bran and Graham Muffins 19 

Bran Gems 19 

Bran Muffins without Eggs 19 

Buttermilk Brown Bread 13 

Buckwheat Buns 18 

Buckwheat Muffins 18 

Corn Bread without Milk 11 

Corn Bread with Milk and Eggs 11 

Corn Bread with Milk and Egg 11 

Corn Dodgers 21 

Corn and Flour Bread 10 

Corn Muffins 17 

Crackling Corn Bread 10 

"E<iucator" Bran Muffins 17 

Graham Gems with Sour or Butter Milk 16 

Graham Muffins with Sweet Milk. 18 

Graham Muffins 19 

Hominy Bread (With Wheat Flour and Potatoes (Three 

Loaves) (From the Club Messenger) 14 

Hot Cross Buns 20 

Muffins 21 

157 



Nut Bread 15 

Nut and Raisin Bread 15 

Oatmeal Bread 12 

Oatmeal Bread 13 

Parker House Rolls •. 20 

Peanut Butter Bread or Muffins 17 

Plain Muflins .- 20 

Potato Bread 16 

Prune Bread 15 

Rice Bread (One Loaf) 16 

Rice Cakes 20 

Rice Muffins 21 

Rice Flour Muffins 21 

Rye Bread (One Loaf) 17 

Spider Bread 15 

Spoon Bread 11 

Spoon Corn Bread 12 

War Bread 12 

CAKES 

Angel Cake 87 

Angel Food 87 

Barley Sponge Cake 88 

Brownies 93 

Chocolate Cake 92 

Chocolate Fruit Cookies 90 

Chocolate Molasses Cake  86 

Cream Scones 91 

Date Tea Cake 85 

Doughnuts 97 

Drop Cakes — Baked in Gem Pans ^^_. 94 

Drop Sponges 91 

Drop Graham Cakes 95 

French Army Cakes (as made in France) 84 

Fruit Cake 91 

Ginger Snaps 94 

Gold Cake, to Use 8 Yolks Left Over from Angel Cake.. 87 

Hermits ; 94 

Honey Hermits 93 

Honey Plum Cake 92 

Inexpensive Cookies 90 

Inexpensive Chocolate Cake 86 

Jolly Boys 91 

Lace Cake 96 

Layer Cake to Fill with Whipped Cream or a Custard Filling 

or Jelly 92 

Lilly Cake 87 

Maple Jumbles 97 

Marguerites 9B 

Mother's Black Fruit Cake 88 

Mt. Hickory One-Egg Cake 87 

New England Cookies 89 

No Egg Molasses Ginger Bread 89 

Novelty Cake 92 

Nut Cake ;.... 85 

Nut Cakes (Thin) , 97 

158 



Nutlets 96 

Oatmeal Cookies with Graham Flour 95 

Oatmeal Cookies with Sour Milk 95 

Oatmeal Macaroons with Corn Syrup 96 

Peanut Cookies 94 

Pin Wheels 89 

Potato Caramel Cake 86 

Potato Cornmeal Cakes 95 

"Prince of Wales Cake" 85 

Ross Lunch Cake — War Cake 84 

Soft Ginger Bread 89 

Sour Cream Gingerbread ' 89 

Spice Drop Cakes — Baked in Geiti Pans 93 

Sponge Cake 88 

Sponge Cake, To Make More Delicious 88 

Sponge Wafers 90 

Sugar Cookies 90 

Swedish Sponge Cake 88 

Tea Cake 84 

Taylor Cakes 95 

War Chocolate Layer Cake 85 

War Time Macaroons with Cocoanut 96 

White Layer Cake — Two Thick Layers 86 

White Loaf Cake — Bake in Tube Pan 86 



CAKE ICING 

Caramel Icing 100 

Honey Icing 100 

Maple Icing .' . . 101 

Nut Caramel Icing ........; 100 

White Icing 100 



CANNED VEGETABLES 

Canned Corn 138 

Canned Eg^ Plant 139 

Canned Green Peppers 138 

Dried Egg Plant 139 

Putting up Corn 138 

Recipe for Putting up Corn 138 



CHEESE 

Bread and Cheese 62 

Baked Hominy and Cheese 62 

Baked Rice Au Gratin 62 

Cheese Souffle 61 

Cheese on Toast 62 

Creole Macaroni 61 

English Monkey 62 

Macaroni, Cheese and Tomato 61 

Onions on Toast 61 

War French Fried Potatoes 61 

is:) 



DESSERTS 

Angel Pudding 110 

Apple Custard 114 

Apple Dumplings 117 

Apple Sauce (Made with Pineapple Syrup) 106 

Apple Popovers 119 

A Simple Custard 102 

Baked Apples 105 

Biaked Honey Apples 107 

Banana Cream 115 

Banana Flip 115 

Blueberry Steam Pudding : Ill 

Bread Pudding 108 

Brown Pudding Ill 

Carrot Pudding 114 

Charlotte Russe 104 

Charlotte Russe-Fluff 113 

Cherry Pudding 118 

Chocolate Bread Pudding 109 

Cottage Cheese Custard Pie 118 

Cottage Pudding 109 

Creamed Rice with Brandied Figs 115 

Crumb Bread Pudding 108 

Custard Souffle 110 

Date Pudding " 102 

Date Pudding 107 

Delicate Fresh Strawberry Dessert Ill 

Fig Dessert 105 

Fig Tapioca 107 

Filling for Nut Cake 109 

Frozen Apple Float 117 

Frozen Cherry Pudding 116 

Ginger Bread with Apples 102 

Oraham and Fig Pudding 114 

Grape Nut Pudding 105 

Hingham Pudding 108 

Ice Box Pudding 114 

Iced Rice Pudding Ill 

Italian Cream Ill 

Lemon Pudding 106 

New England Indian Pudding 112 

Manhattan Pudding 116 

Maple Ice Cream 117 

Maple Mousse 117 

Maple Parfait 117 

Maple Sauce to Be Served with Rice 106 

Marshmallow Cream 116 

Marshmallow Pudding 108 

Meringue 103 

Molasses Pie 1 10 

Orange Bavoise 104 

Peach Pudding 112 

Pastry 118 

Prune Jelly 107 

Prune Pudding 103 

Prune Pudding 106 

160 



Prune Whip 105 

Prunes Cooked without Sugar 106 

Plum Pudding 107 

Raspberry Sponge 115 

Rhubarb 113 

Rhubarb Pie 118 

Rice Custard 112 

Rice Souffle • 116 

Russian Cascell 113 

Spanish Cream 105 

Spiced Bread Pudding 109 

Snow Pudding — Custard Sauce llO 

St. James Pudding : 103 

Steam Suet Pudding 119 

Steamed Chocolate Pudding 109 

Strawberry Short Cake ... 118 

Suggestion for Dessert 113 

Surprise Pudding 106 

Tapioca Custard * 113 

Troy Pudding 112 

War Pudding 104 

War Time Steamed Pudding 104 

EGGS 

Blocked Eggs 41 

Cheese Omelet 42 

Eggs and Cheese in Ramikins 40 

Egg Croquettes \. 40 

Egg for an Invalid 41 

Egg Souffle 40 

Egg Timbales .' 40 

Hominy Grits and Scram'bled Eggs 40 

Italian Gnochi : . . . . 41 

Kidney Omelet 41 

Omelet 41 

FISH 

Baked Fish 35 

Baked Salmon 35 

Clam Fritters 36 

Codfish Balls .;...... 35 

Codfish Balls with Rice 34 

Corn Meal Fish Cakes 36 

Crab Croquettes 37 

Creamed Shad Roe ' 36 

Escalloped Oysters 37 

Fish Crowder 34 

Fish Pudding 36 

Fish Souffle '. 35 

Garnish for Fish 35 

Halibut Cutlets 34 

Luncheon Fish Dish 37 

Luncheon Sardine Dish : 37 

Planked' Shad with Creamed Roe 37 

Rice Codfish Pudding 35 

Shad Roe Croquettes 34 

161 



GRIDDLE CAKES AND WAFFLES 

Barley Waffles 24 

Buckwheat Cakes 24 

Corn Cakes 24 

Corn Griddle Cakes 24 

Corn Meal Waffles 25 

Delicious Corn Cakes 25 

Oatmeal Griddle Cakes 25 



MEATS AND MEAT SUBSTITUTES 

Bean Loaf 44 

Bean or Pea Loaf 48 

Beef Croquettes 46 

Beef Olives 47 

Boiled Ham in Milk 52 

Brazilian Turkey 45 

Camouflage Roast 45 

"Cheap Cuts" of Steak 44 

Corn Beef Hash 51 

Cornmeal and Meat 46 

Creamed Ham 45 

Croquettes without Eggs 50 

Delicious Stuffed Peppers 51 

For Sauc^ 50 

Garnish for Cold Lamb 44 

Garnish for Ham 44 

Green Pea Loaf 48 

Ham Mousse 46 

Hominy and Chipped Beef , 45 

Hominy and Tomato 48 

Italian Spaghetti 47 

"Lalla Rookh" 51 

Liberty Meat 44 

Meat Loaf 50 

Minced Liver with Toast 49 

Mock Duck 44 

Mock Sausage 47 

Mock Terrapin 49 

Nut Scrapple 49 

Onion Soup Au Gratin 46 

Pork Croquette 52 

Rice and Bread, Meat Subsititute 51 

Rolled Steak and Vegetables 52 

Royal Escallop 46 

Scalloped Beef or Lamb 50 

Shepherd's Pie 49 

Spanish Rice 49 

Tamale Pie 47 

Tomato Cakes 48 

Yorkshire Pudding 47 

War Meat Substitute 50 

162 



MISCELLANEOUS 

Baking Powder 151 

Butter 150 

Brass Polish 151 

Don't Waste Any Soap 152 

Household Hints 153 

Make Soap of Fat Unfit jor Cooking 152 

Packing Butter f'or Winter Use 150, 

Packing Eggs for Winter Use 150 

Rules for Substitution 154 

Silver Cleaner 151 

Suet (Rendered for Frying) 150 

Table of Proportions 156 

Toilet Soap , 152 

Weights and Measures 156 

White Soap— No. 1 151 

White Soap— ]S5o. 2 151 



PIE FOR WAR TIME 
CRUSTS 

Apple-Raisin 123 

Barley 122 

Cottage Cheese Rice Pie Crust 122 

Cornmeal and Wheat 122 

Mince Meat without Meat 123 

Oatmeal 122 

Orange 123 

Rice 122 

Rye Pie Crust 122 

Sugarless Fillings— Apple 123 



PRESERVED FRUITS 

Addition of Salt to Peaches and Plums 136 

Cherries for Pie 136 

Canned Peaches, Canned Pears, Canned Sweet Apples 135 

Canned Rhubarb 135 

Canned Yellow Raspberries 136 

Delicious Strawberry Jam 134 

Fresh Peaches 132 

Gooseberry Chutney 133 

Grape Butter ." 135 

Grape Juice 135 

Grape Juice for Freezing 135 

Grape Marmalade 133 

Kurnquat Marmalade 134 

Peach and Pineapple Preserves 132 

Pears and Quinces 132 

x^ickeled Prunes 133 

Raisin and Grape Marmalade 134 

Spiced Currants 133 

Spiced Peaches 133 

Strawberries 134 

Strawberries and Cherries 134 

163 



Strawberry Preserves 132 

Strawberries and Pineapples 134 

Stuffed Peaches 136 

To Test Fruit for Pectin 136 



PUTTING UP .VEGETABLES 

Boiler 142 

Corn 141 

Dried Corn 143 

"Government Suggestion" 142 

How to Cook Dried Corn 143 

Important 143 

Inspection 140 

Jars 140 

Length of Time for Steaming. 142 

Lids 140 

Preparing Vegetables 141 

Putting Vegetables in Jars 141 

Putting Jars in Boiler , . », ..,» . , 142 

Rubber Bands 140 

Sealing Wax 142 

To Boil or Sterilize Water .140 

Tomatoes 141 

Washing 140 

Water 140 



RELISHES AND PICKLES 

Chili Sauce 147 

Chopped Pickle , 146 

Chow Chow 144 

Cold Cucumber Pickles 148 

Cold Tomato Catsup 145 

Corn Sauce 144 

Cucum-ber Sauce 145 

Home Made Vinegar 146 

Mixed Pickles in Mustard Dressing 147 

Pepoer Hash 146 

Pickled Onions 148 

Sliced Cucumber Pickle 145 

Soanish Pickle 144 

Sliced Cucumbers 148 

Soiced Pickle 145 

Tomato Catsup ; 146 



SALADS 

Apple and Date Salad 65 

Apple Surprise . ; 68 

Asparagus Salad (il 

Dressing 66 

Dressing 67 

Frozen Fruit Salad 64 

Frozen Fruit Salad 66 

Frozen Tomato Jelly 64 

164 



Fruit Gelatine Salad 64 

Ginger Ale and Fruit Salad 68 

Golden Dressing 65 

Grapefruit, Orange and Nut Salad 65 

King Salad 67 

Oyster Salad 67 

Perfection Salad : . . 65 

Pineapple and Marshmellow Salad 67 

Pineapple Salad 68 

Pineapple Salad with Golden Dressing 65 

Potato Salad 66 

Potato Salad 68 

Salad Miami 66 

Salad Moderne 66 

Summer Salad 68 

Tomato Jelly Salad 64 

Tomato Salad 67 

SALAD DRESSINGS 

Boiled Salad Dressing 73 

Cream Dressing (For Cold Slaw) 73 

French Dressing .■ 74 

Russian Dressing : 73 

Simple Salad Dressing (Without Oil) 73 

Wesson Oil Mayonnaise 73 

SANDWICHES 

Bean Sandwiches 81 

Celery Sandwiches 80 

Cheese Dreams 81 

Cinnamon Toast 80 

Date Sandwiches 81 

Delicious Sandwiches 80 

Norwegian Sandwiches 80 

Nut and Cheese Loaf 81 

Pepper Hash Sandwiches (refer to pickles) 81 

Sandwiches 81 

Sandwich Fillings 82 

Toasted Graham Sandwiches 80 

Tuna Fish 82 

Uneeda Biscuit Club Sandwich 80 

SAUCES 

Brown Nut Sauce Id 

Cottage Pudding Sauce 11 

Cornstarch Sauce 11 

Cream Sauce with Cheese 78 

Golden Sauce 11 

Hard Sauce 11 

Italian. Tomato Sauce 76 

Maryland Sauce (See Rice Puffs) 78 

Mock Hollandaise Sauce 76 

Mustard Sauce A La Plaza Hotel 11 

Nutmeg Sauce 11 

165 






> 



•, 



Pimento Sauce 76 

Sauce for Beets 78 

Vanilla Sauce 11 

White Sauce 78 



SOUPS 

Asparagus Soup 28 

Carrot Soup 27 

Corn Chowder 31 

Cream of Lima Bean 28 

Cream of Vegetable Soup 29 

French Vegetable Soup 27 

Kidney Bean Soup 30 

Lobster Bisque 30 

Marrow Balls , ^. . . .' 31 

Mushroom Soup 27 

Onion and Cheese Soup 28 

Ox Tail Soup 29 

Pea Soup , 30 

Pea Soup 31 

Potato Soup 30 

Quick Bouillon 30 

Spinach Soup 28 

Suggestion — Garnished Ox Tail 29 

String Bean Soup 28 

Tomato Bouillon with Oysters 29 

Vegetable Soup without Meat 27 



VEGETABLES 

Baked Bermuda Onions 58 

Baked Cabbage 56 

Baked Egg Plant 57 

Baked Hominy 57 

Beets with Cream Dressing 56 

Corn Fritters / 57 

Dutch Potato Cakes 58 

Green Corn Fritters 58 

Hominy Croquettes 56 

Macaroni 59 

Parsnip Fritters 58 

Potatoes 55 

Potato Croquettes 55 

Rice Puffs 55 

Spinach Mould 58 

Spinach with Mushrooms 55 

Stuffed Egg Plant 55 

Stuffed Onions 59 

Stuffed Egg Plant 57 

Stewed Mushrooms 59 

Sweet Fried Cabbage 57 

Vegetable Souffle 56 

166 



/ 



"WAR CANDY" 

Black Walnut Taffy 127 

Brown Sugar Fudge 128 

Caramel Fudge 128 

Chocolate Maple Fudge 127 

Honey Candy , 125 

Honey Roll : 127 

Karo Divinity 125 

Maple Cocoanut Balls 127 

Maple Fondant 126 

Molasses Candy 128 

Nut Balls 125 

Popcorn Candy : 128 

Puffed Rice War Candy 126 

Sea Foam ^ 128 

Stuffed Dates 126 

Stuffed Figs 125 



167 



I 



I ,,,.„,,. ,,,,,, 
iiiiir 



