MANUAL 

of 

WHEATLESS 
RECIPES 




75,000,000 BUSHELS 
of WHEAT MUST BE 
SAVED FOR OUR BOYS 
AT THE FRONT 

PRICE 1' E N C E N T S 



MANUAL of WHEATLESS 

Recipes 



ISSUED BY THE FOOD BOARD 
of THE WOMEN'S COMMITTEE 



of 



THE DANE COUNTY 
COUNCIL of DEFENSE 

MRS. GEORGE FISKE 

Chairman Food Conservation Committee 

Prices on quantity tots on request 



2 South Carroll Street 
MADISON, WISCONSIN 
19 18 



;^\ 



PREFACE 



The keynote of this little pamphlet of war-time recipes is substitution. 
By actual experiment during a number of months, we have found it en- 
tirely possible to live well on one-half the quantity of meat, wheat and 
sugar we are normally accustomed to. This is niade possible by using 
substitutes and eliminating waste. By substituting other flours for wheat, 
giving a liberal allowance of eggs, fish, nuts and vegetables in place of 
meat, and supplanting the rich made desserts with salads, fruits, raisins, 
figs, etc., it is not a difficult task. 

The plea is at once raised that many of these substitutes are more 
costly than the things we are trying to replace. This is true. At the 
same time, we are facing a world crisis; thousands of people are starving; 
our own army in France may very well suffer for lack of bread when in a 
single week 7,000,000 pounds of food are sunk as occurred not long ago. 
Isn't it up to the women of America to make a supreme effort to help 
meet this situation? Economize still further, but do not say we cannot 
use substitutes because they are too expensive. We can all save a little 
more on clothes, trips, theatres, and on little personal luxuries. It mat- 
ters very little whether or not we are wearing a last year's gown and hat, 
but it will matter to all future generations if we lose this war to "make 
the world safe for democracy." The food question, after all, is largely 
in the hands of the American housewife who purveys for her household. 
Let us not be found wanting! This is our great opportunity and we 
ought to look upon it as a privilege to do our bit cheerfully and efficiently. 
While the strain of the crisis we are facing is so great, and we need more 
than ever the maximum of our strength — we should take' thought for our 
physical well being — live on good nourishing food daintily prepared, 
and be willing to give a little more of our time and thought to the prepara- 
tion of these unaccustomed foods. Every recipe in this Uttle manual has 
been tested by some member of our committee. We do not offer anything 
especially new, but in the adapting of old recipes to the new conditions, 

3 



we hope to have warranted the publication of this httle pamphlet. We 
sincerely hope it may prove useful to those who are trying to do their 
war bit in the kitchen. 

MRS. G. C. COMSTOCK, Chairman of War Recipes. 
MISS MARY BUNN, 
MRS. F. W. MONTGOMERY, 
MRS. H. L. MOSELEY, 
MRS. A. G. SULLIVAN. 
MRS. W. F. TAYLOR, 
MRS. A. B. WINEGAR, Committee. 

Note: As we are going to press the wheat situation has become so critical that 
we have been asked to eUminate all wheat flour from our recipes. It goes with- 
out saying that the same perfection in cooking cannot be attained with such an 
essential element as wheat entirely cut out. There is however an abundance of 
other good things to eat, and we trust the shortage of wheat is only temporary. 

When the wheat situation becomes less acute tne recipes containing wheat with 
the substitutes will be published. 

BREADS AND FLOURS 

The most difficult problem facing the Food Administration today is the 
shortage of wheat. With the constant toll of the submarine and the fact that 
we must save 75,000,000 bushels out of our year's reserve for our army and 
our allies the situation is critical. This means a more general use of substi- 
tutes or that we must let our boys in France suffer for bread. The only thing 
we are absolutely called upon to give up is wheat. Thousands of patriotic 
people have already pledged themselves to use no wheat as long as the present 
shortage exists, and some of our states have voluntarily given up its use. This 
sacrifice seems small indeed in contrast to the terrible suffering the people 
of the war stricken countries have been called upon to endure for nearly four 
years. Thousands of our boys are facing death in the trenches from the most 
cruel enemy the world has- ever seen, that we may live on in our accustomed 
peace and security. Can we wemen not throw ourselves into the breach 
and use all our ingenuity to make substitutes do the duty of wheat for the 
next few months — even years if necessary? It is not an easy task to accustom 
ourselves to these substitute flours that are now filling our pantry shelves 
for the first time. We do not attempt to say that they are "just as good' 
according to our old standards but we can justly claim that they are equally 
wholesome and nourishing. As no satisfactory yeast bread has yet been 
made without any wheat we are giving recipes for quick breads only, which are 
better adapted to the use of substitute flours. One element of success in using 
these flours consists in sifting them together several times before using and as 
a rule they require a little more baking powder than wheat flour. 

Altho various combinations of flours and even mashed potato has been 
suggested for piecrust we have so far found nothing we are willing to recom- 
mend. As the work is still more or less experimental and gives much scope 
for individual effort we trust someone may be able to solve the pastry problem. 
Left over corn bread and wheatless muffins may be dried in a slow oven, 
rolled and used where ordinary bread crumbs are called for. 



N. B. All measurements are level unless otherwise indicated. 

QUICK BREADS 

Soft Corn Bread 

2 cups hot boiled hominy 1 tablespoon butter 

2 cups milk 1 cup white cornmeal 

2 eggs 1 teaspoon salt 

Mix butter with hominy. Add eggs well beaten, then milk and lastly 
the cornmeal. Pour the mixture, which should be the consistency of 
pancake batter, into a deep dish from which it should be served. Bake 
about one hour. 

Rice Spoon Bread 

J4 cup of rice 1 cup of white cornmeal 

2 cups of water 2 tablespoons corn oil 

1 cup of milk 1 teaspoon salt ^ 

3 eggs 

Cook rice in the 2 cups of water until thoroly done, then add milk. 
When boiling hot add cornmeal slowly, then butter and salt and lastly 
the well beaten eggs. Pour into a well buttered baking dish and bake 
about 3^ hour. 

Batter Bread Muffins 

Scald 1 pint white cornmeal with 1 3^ cups boiling water. Add 1 tea- 
spoon salt, 2 cups sweet milk, 1 tablespoon shortening. When cool add 
2 eggs. Bake 3^ hour in hot buttered irons. 

Virginia Batter Bread 

4 tablespoons melted shortening 4 cups milk 

1 cup boiled hominy or rice H cup white cornmeal 

3 eggs 3^ teaspoon salt 

Mix in the order given and bake 1 hour. When beginning to thicken, 
stir occasionally. The rice may be omitted if desired. 

5 



Hominy Gems 

1 cup cornmeal 3 tablespoons fat 

M cup hominy 2 tablespoons sugar 

1 cup scalded milk 3 teaspoons baking powder 
K cup boiling water 1 teaspoon salt 

2 eggs well beaten , 1 tablespoon cornstarch 

Pour boiling water ovier hominy, add salt and let hominy absorb water. 
Add hot milk to cornmeal, sugar and butter, combine, cool. Add baking 
powder which has been combined with cornstarch, and stiffly beaten 
whites of eggs. Put in hot gem pans. (Iron ones are best.) Bake 20 
minutes. 

Waffles 

1 cup milk 2 teaspoons baking powder 

3^ cup corn flour 2 eggs beaten separately, whites 

3^ cup rice flour, barley or corn- beaten and folded in last 

starch 1 tablespoon melted butter or 

corn oil 

Cream of Rice Muffins 

"%, cup corn flour 2 teaspoons baking powder 

M cup cream of rice 1 tablespoon fat 

1 cup milk 1 teaspoon salt 

Bake in mufTm pans 20 minutes. 1 egg 

Baking Powder Biscuit 

1 cup rye flour 2 tablespoons butter 

Yi cup rice flour 4 teaspoons baking powder 

Yi cup cornstarch 1 teaspoon salt 

1 cup milk 

Sift the flours carefully together with the salt and baking powder. Mix 
in the butter thoroughly. Add milk to make right consistency to handle, 
as cornstarch and rice flour are quite dry they absorb a little more milk 
than white flour. Roll out and cut in rounds. Bake in quick oven. 

6 



Baking Powder Biscuit (for Strawberry Shortcake) 

3^ cup rye flour 4 level teaspoons baking powder 

2 level tablespoons potato flour 2 level tablespoons butter 
2 level tablespoons rice flour H cup thin cream or top milk, 
4 level tablespoons corn starch good measure 

good pinch of salt 1 egg 

Sift dry ingredients together 3 times, rub the butter in, add egg (beaten 
together) and lastly cream. 

Place by tablespoons in mufTiri tins (large size) and bake in moderate 
oven 15 minutes. This recipe makes 7 mufflns. 

Cut strawberries in quarters and sweeten to taste, allowing them to 
stand 2 or 3 hours before using. 

Cut biscuit open carefully with hot knife, spread 3^ of biscuit with 
butter and place the prepared strawberries over it. Put back top of bis- 
cuit and pour remainder of strawberries on top. On top of this a table- 
spoon of whipped cream may be placed if desired. 

Date MuflBns 

2 eggs }/2 cup rice flour 

2 tablespoons butter 3^ cup rye or barley flour 

4 tablespoons sugar (honey 3^ cup cornstarch 

can be used) 3 teaspoons baking powder 

% cup of dates pinch of salt 

1 cup of milk 
Add the beaten yolks to the butter which has been creamed with the 
sugar or honey. Mix dry ingredients and add to the first mixture alter- 
nately with the milk. Beat well. Add the dates cut in small pieces and 
mix in quickly the beaten whites of the eggs. Bake in a moderately hot 
oven. 

Nut Bread 
1 cup cornmeal 2 cups sour milk 

1 cup rye flour 1 teaspoon soda 

3^ cup rice flour 1 teaspoon salt 

3^ cup molasses 3^ cup chopped nuts 

3^ cup sugar 3^ cup seedless raisins 

Bake in two bread pans about 45 minutes. This bread makes excellent 
sandwiches to serve with tea. Cut thin, spread with butter, but do not 
put shces together. Corn flour may be substituted for rye if latter is not 
obtainable. 

7 



Nut Bread No. 2 

1 cup rye or oat flour 4 teaspoons baking powder 

Yi cup cornmeal 1 tablespoon corn oil 

Yz cup molasses 1 teaspoon salt 

1 egg well beaten Yz cup chopped nuts 

1 cup milk Y2 cup seedless raisins 

Mix flours and mix with baking powder and salt. Add the other 
ingredients, beat well, pour into a bread pan, let stand 10 minutes and 
bake 45 minutes in a moderate oven. 



Steamed Brown Bread 

1 cup cornmeal 2 cups sour milk 

1 cup corn flour 1 teaspoon salt 

1 cup rye meal 1 teaspoon soda 
1 cup molasses 

Fill well buttered moulds two-thirds full and steam three or four hours. 
Bake Y2 hour in moderate oven. 

Quaker Muffins 

1 cup rolled oats 1 cup milk 

Y2 cup corn flour 1 egg 

1 tablespoon sugar 4 teaspoons baking powder 

2 tablespoons corn oil 1 teaspoon salt 

Scald the milk, pour it over the rolled oats, let it stand until cold.' Sift 
dry ingredients together, add to the mixture, then add corn oil and well 
beaten egg, pour into muflTm pans greased with corn oil. Bake 20 minutes 
in a moderate oven. 

Barley Muffins 

1 cup barley 2 tablespoons fat 

^ cup cornmeal 1 tablespoon sugar 

1 cup milk 3 teaspoons baking powder 

1 egg well beaten Y2 teaspoon salt 

Mix dry ingredients together, beat the egg thoroughly, add milk then 
other ingredients, adding corn oil or melted fat last. Pour into hot 
greased muffin pans and bake 20 minutes. 

8 



Corn and Rice Muffins 

Yi cup cooked rice 3 teaspoons baking powder 

1 cup milk 1 3^ cups white corn meal 

1 egg 1 tablespoon sugar 

2 tablespoons melted fat ^ teaspoon salt 

Place all dry ingredients together, add the rice, then the egg beaten 
separately and lastly the fat. Beat together very thoroughly until per- 
fectly smooth. Bake in moderate oven 15 to 20 minutes. 



Sponge Corn Bread 

% cup cornmeal 2 tablespoons fat 

3^ cup rice flour 1 tablespoon sugar 

1 cup sour milk 1 teaspoon salt 

1 small teaspoon soda M cup boiled rice may be added 
1 egg and yolk of another 

Bake in shallow pan 20 minutes 



Corn Bread No. 2 

^ cup cornmeal 1 tablespoon sugar 

2 tablespoons rice flour 1 3^ tablespoons melted fat 

2 teaspoons baking powder 1 cup milk 

1 egg a little jalt 

Scald milk and pour it over the meal, make quite thin. Bake twenty 
minutes in shallow pan. 



Hominy Rounds 

3 cups boiling water 1 cup hominy 

1 teaspoon salt 
Cook hominy, water and salt in double boiler from one to two hours. 
Butter a large flat cake tin and pour in the hot hominy half an inch thick. 
When cold cut in rounds with biscuit cutter, dip in egg, dust lightly with 
bread crumbs or white corn meal and fry a delicate brown in corn oil. 

Eggs or creamed meat may be served on rounds of fried hominy instead 
of toast. 



Oatmeal Wafers 

1 cup rolled oats 1 teaspoon baking powder 

1 cup rice flour 1 rounding tablespoon lard or 

milk to moisten butter 

Sift baking powder into rice flour and mix with oats. Work lard in 
carefully, add just enough milk or water to moisten so that it can be 
handled. The best way to roll it is to put enough of the dough on an 
inverted cake tin to spread over the bottom, then roll it on the tin as thin 
as possible. Sprinkle lightly with table salt cut in squares or rounds and 
bake in moderate oven. 

These may be served with salad or soup. 

These may be used as tarts by cutting in large squares and placing jam 
and whipped cream on them before serving. 

Bread Griddle Cakes 
1 pint stale (not dried) corn 1 cup rice flour 

corn bread crumbs 3^ teaspoon salt 

1 pint milk, scalded 3 teaspoons baking powder 

1 tablespoon butter cold milk to thin if needed 

2 eggs 

Pour the hot milk over the crumbs, add the butter and soak over night 
or till the crumbs are softened. Then rub thru a strainer. Add the eggs, 
flour into which have been sifted the salt and baking powder, and cold 
milk if necessary. Bake slowly; spread with butter and sugar and serve 
hot. 

Old Fashioned Raised Buckwheat Cakes 

1 cup buckwheat 1 pint bofling water 
Yi cup cornmeal 1 cake yeast foam 
3^2 cup rye meal 2 tablespoons milk 

pinch of salt 1 tablespoon sugar 

Yi teaspoon soda 

Pour boiling water over the cornmeal, when lukewarm, add buckwheat 
and rye meal; beat well and let rise over night. In the morning, take out 
afl but a cupful, add the soda dissolved in a little milk, the salt and sugar, 
beat weU and bake. With the remaining sponge set the cakes again. The 
sponge will keep a week in cold weather. 

Potato Pancakes 

2 cups of mashed potato 1 rounding tablespoon barley flour 
1 teaspoon salt 1 rounding tablespoon cornstarch 

H cup milk 2 eggs beaten separately 

Mix in order given, adding whites just before frying. 

10 



SOUPS 

One of the things we do not need to eliminate from our table is soup. 
By establishing the French "Pot au feu" in our kitchens we can convert 
much material we have hitherto thrown away into delicious and nourish- 
ing soup. As long and slow cooking is an essential part of the process 
a fireless cooker may be used where a range is not available. Left over 
meats, gravies, the bones from a fowl or a roast, and vegetables either 
cooked or raw may be used. The water in which celery, cabbage, turnip, 
asparagus, cauliflower, peas, beans and onions have been cooked should 
always be saved. Rice water may be used where a thick soup is desired. 
The cream soups — those made without stock — are a valuable addition, 
forming a valuable group. Cornstarch, rice or potato flour can be used 
for thickening. 

Oyster Soup 

1 pint milk 1 tablespoon butter 

Y2 pint oysters 1 tablespoon cornstarch 

Yi cup cream salt and pepper to taste 

Cut the oysters in small pieces removing the hard part, put the milk in 
double boiler, when hot add blended butter and corn starch and seasoning, 
when thoroughly cooked add oysters, cook 5 minutes, add hot cream and 
serve at once. 

Oyster Soup No. 2 

1 pint oysters 2 tablespoons butter 

1 cup chicken stock 1 tablespoon cornstaich 

3^ cup stale oatmeal wafer 23^ cups hot milk 

crumbs 3^ cup cream 

Yi onion grated 1 egg yolk 

1 stalk celery salt and pepper to taste 

1 blade mace I sprigs parsley 
bit of bay leaf 

Clean and remove all particles of shell from oysters, reserving liquor, 
setting aside soft portions. Cook chicken stock, bread crumbs, reserved 
liquor, tough part of oysters, onion, celery, parsley, mace and bay leaf for 
20 minutes, rub through a sieve, bring to boiling point, add hot milk, 
blended butter and flour, cook until smooth. Add soft part of oysters, and 
cream mixed w^th yolk of egg. Cook a few minutes and serve at once. 

11 



Pimento Bisque 

% cup cooked rice yolks of 2 eggs 

3 pints chicken stock 3^ cup cream 

3^ cup canned pimentos 

Cook rice and stock in double boiler until very tender, add pimentos cut 
in small pieces, rub all thru a sieve, bring to the boiling point again, add 
egg yolks and hot cream. Serve at once 

Corn Chowder 

1 cup corn 3 tablespoons butter 

2 cups diced raw potatoes 1 tablespoon- cornstarch 

1 small onion grated 1 tablespoon chopped green pepper 

3 cups milk salt and pepper to taste 
]/^ cup cream 

Put corn, milk, onion and green pepper in double boiler, parboil potatoes, 
for 10 minutes in boiling water, drain, put in double boiler, when soft add 
blended butter and corn starch. Just before serving add hot cream. 
Croutons of war bread browned in butter may be added if desired. 

Black Bean Soup 

1 pint black beans 1 tablespoon cornstarch 

2 quarts cold water 2 tablespoons butter 
1 pint black beans 3^ teaspoon mustard 
1 onion 1 lemon 

1 stalk celery 2 hard boiled eggs 

salt and pepper to taste 

Soak beans over night. Put on to boil in 2 quarts cold water, slice the 
onion, fry in a little fat and with the celery add to the beans, simmer 
several hours or until quite soft, adding more water so that there are 
about 2 quarts when done. Rub thru a strainer, put on to boil, add salt, 
pepper and mustard, thicken with blended butter and flour. Cut the 
lemon and eggs into thin slices and pour the hot soup over them. If a 
richer soup is desired the bean pulp can be boiled down quite thick and 
thinned with soup stock. A cup of tomato juice may also be added. 

12 



Potato Soup 

3 medium sized potatoes 1 small tablespoon cornstarch 

3 cups milk 1 small tablespoon chopped parsley 

1 onion grated salt and pepper to taste 

2 tablespoons butter 

Cook potatoes until soft in salted water. Scald milk in double boiler, 
add onion and potatoes put thru ricer, cook 15 minutes, add blended 
butter and cornstarch, season highly, add finely chopped parsely and 
serve at once. 



13 



MEATS 

Braised Tongue, No. 1 

Boil a fresh tongue in enough unsalted water to cover until tender 
enough to remove the skin easily or about three hours. After the roots 
and skin have been removed place in a braising dish with enough of the 
water in which it has been cooked to cover it. Brown in drippings Yi cup 
each of chopped onion, carrot and celery, add to the tongue with salt and 
pepper to taste, 1 cup of tomato, 4 whole cloves, 2 bay leaves, a few sprigs 
of parsley and a green pepper cut up. Cover closely and let cook slowly 
3 hours or until perfectly tender. Strain the liquor in which it was cooked, 
thicken with 2 tablespoons of cornstaich blended with 2 tablespoons of 
butter. Just before serving add 2 tablespoons of sherry and 34 pound of 
mushrooms which have been previously cooked. 

Braised Tongue No. 2 

Boil fresh tongue until tender, take out roots and gristle, also remove 
skin. Cut it to fit casserole, leaving enough room for sauce. Sauce — chop 
fine 1 tablespoon each of celery, parsley, carrot, parsnip, turnip, onion. 
Brown in frying pan 2 tablespoons of rice flour and 2 of butter substitute. 
When brown add 1 3^ pints liquor in which tongue was boiled, season, 
allow to thicken and pour over tongue. Cover tightly and bake two 
hours. Serve garnished with parsely and red pepper cut in strips. 

Beef Stew 

Choose flank end of roast, cut meat in small pieces and put them to 
brown with drippings. Slice 1 onion, 1 carrot and 1 turnip, scald before 
adding to the stew. Cover with boiling water and let simmer till tender, 
(about 4 hours). Skim off fat. Pepper and salt to taste. Parboil potatoes 
5 minutes before adding. Drop in dumplings when potatoes are nearly 
done and cook fast, covered tight, for 10 minutes. 

Dumplings 

3^ cup barley 2 teaspoons baking powder 

3^ cup corn flour 1 egg 

V2 cup cornstarch salt 

Mix with enough milk to make a stiff batter. 

14 



Stuflfed Shoulder of Mutton 

Begin at the top and take the thin skin off shoulder of mutton, remove 
the bones, make stufTmg and put between the layers of meat. With a 
coarse needle and twine gather the edges into a long oval form. Steam 
till tender. Take out, dredge with barley flour, salt and pepper. Bake 
till brown, basting with water from the kettle in w^hich it was cooked. 
Use the water for gravy also. 

Swedish Meat Cakes 

1 lb. chopped raw beef 1 teaspoon lemon juice 

% cup soft corn bread crumbs a few gratings of nutmeg 

}/2 cup stock 1 medmm sized onion, grated 

yolks of 2 eggs salt and pepper to taste 

Form into cakes, put into an iron skillet with 2 tablespoons of corn oil, 
fry until brown on both sides, then cover with 1 pint of thin tomato sauce 
and bake slowly 40 minutes. Serve with a border of boiled rice or mashed 
potato. This makes nine meat cakes, and if carefully made is a delicious 
and most economical dish. 

Breaded Mutton Cutlets 

8 French chops cut thin 3^ teaspoon salt, pepper to taste 

2 tablespoons butter 1 cup cream 

3 tablespoons cornstarch 3^ cup chopped ham 

Make a white sauce of the above ingredients. When thoroughly cooked 
add the finely chopped ham, mix thoroughly and set aside to cool. Broil 
the chops. Season each chop with salt and pepper and cover on both sides 
with a layer of the sauce. Allow them to stand on a buttered plate until 
firm, then dip in egg and dried 'mufifm crumbs, and saute in fat until 
brown. Serve with Cuban or tomato sauce. 

Cuban Sauce 

2 tablespoon ham, chopped 1 3^ cups stock 

% cup rice flour 1 cup tomato catsup 

li cup butter 3^ teaspoon salt 

Cook ham and butter, until butter is well browned, add the flour and 
salt, the stock slowly and then the catsup. Cook 10 minutes. Strain 
and serve with mutton cutlets. 

15 



Paprika Snitzel 

2 pounds veal steak cut in small pieces, roll in seasoned corn flour and 
brown in salt pork or drippings. Remove meat from pan, add 2 tablespoons 
butter, brown slightly. Pour in gradually the strained juice from 1 pint 
can tomatoes, add 1 slice each of onion and carrot, bay leaf and a bit of 
mace. Return meat to sauce and simmer % hour. When done remove 
meat to platter, season sauce with salt and a large pinch of paprika, pour 
over meat. Garnish with slices of lemon, parsley and dill pickles. 

Round Steak 

Get steak two inches thick. Spread with corn flour and pound it until 
the steak has absorbed 3^ cup. Sear on both sides in hot frying pan. 
Put layer of onions in casserole or fireless cooker, then place the steak 
on onions and over all pour one pint of canned tomatoes. Salt and pepper 
to taste. Cover tight and cook for 3 hours. 

Chicken Pie with Rice Crust 

Prepare as for creamed chicken with a cream sauce, using some of the 
chicken stock for the sauce. For a crust for a baking dish of medium size 
take 1 }/2 cups of hot boiled rice, add the yolk of 1 egg and 2 tablespoons of 
cream, season to taste, spread out on a pie plate the size of the baking 
dish. When cold, slip it off on top of the creamed chicken and bake 
15 minutes. 

Chiciken in Casserole 

Cut up chicken as for frying. Roll in corn flour, pepper and salt. Butter 
bottom of casserole, lay in chicken. Almost cover with top milk. Bake 
slowly until tender (about 2 hours). 

Smothered Chicken 

Select a plump fowl, cut it up, dredge in corn flour seasoned with salt 
and pepper. Fry slowly in butter or drippings until a delicate brown, add 
a cup of boiling water and a large table spoon of butter. Cover closely and 
bake until thoroughly tender, basting from time to time. One hour is 
enough for a spring chicken. 

16 



MEAT SUBSTITUTES 

Bean Loaf 

1 cup soft muffin or corn bread 1 tablespoon wplnut meats 

crumbs M cup shortening 

% cup lima bean pulp % cup sweet milk 

1 egg ^ teaspoon pepper 
% teaspoon salt a little sugar 

Mix all together and let stand for 15 minutes. Line a bread pan with 
oiled paper and put in mixture. Bake in moderate oven about 1 hour. 

Baked Beans 

Wash 1 pint of beans, soak over night. Boil until tender in the same 
water. Add 1 tablespoon salt, 1 tablespoon molasses, 3 tablespoons olive 
oil. Bake 3 hour, in a slow oven. 



Tomato Sauce for Beans 

y2 cup Chili sauce 1 teaspoon butter 

M teapsoon mustard 2 tablespoons sherry 



Heat and serve with beans. 



Polenta 



Make like porridge by gradually dropping corn meal into boiling water, 
stirring constantly. Boil 3^ hour, when it will be quite thick and smooth. 
Then add salt, a little butter, some grated cheese, and 1 egg beaten. 
When cold cut in layers, place in a baking dish. Add a little butter to each 
layer. Sprinkle with plenty of grated cheese and bake about an hour in 
a slow oven. Serve hot in the same dish. 



Croquettes of Cheese and Rice 

1 pint boiled rice 2 tablespoons grated cheese 

li cup thick white sauce salt and pepper to taste 

yolk of 1 egg 

Cool, shape, roll in crumbs. Dip in egg, roll in crumbs again and fry. 
Serve with tomato sauce. /.= .' .s'J 

17 



Rice Croquettes 

2 cups cooked rice Yi teaspoon salt 

2 or 3 tablespoons milk 1 egg 

2 tablespoons butter 
Warm rice and milk to soften. Add other ingredients. Spread on a 
plate to cool and shape. In the center place left-over bits of jelly. Roll 
in egg and crackers and fry in crisco. 

War Hash 

Place boiled rice in the bottom of a baking dish one inch thick, then a 
layer of chopped chicken or other fowl, or boiled fish, cut in small pieces. 
Then another layer of rice. Pour over this a cup of canned or cooked 
tomatoes. Sprinkle grated cheese over the top and bake. A little gravy 
left from the chicken is an addition. 

Nut Loaf 

2 cups soft muffin crumbs 1 cup top milk 

1 cup chopped walnuts 1 teaspoon salt 

Yz cup melted butter Yi teaspoon pepper 

Yi teaspoon Worcestershire sauce 2 teaspoons baking powder 

a few drops of onion juice 
Mix all together. Shape in a bread pan and bake 1 hour in a moderate 
oven, covering for the first half hour. Serve with tomato sauce. 

Baked Bean Loaf 

1 pint cold baked beans 1 tablespoon minced onion 

1 egg beaten 1 tablespoon catsup 

1 cup wheatless bread crumbs salt and pepper to taste 

Mix thoroughly, bake Y2 hour. Serve hot with tomato souce. 

Casserole of Rice and Meat 

I cup rice 1 beaten egg 

Yi lb. chopped meat 2 tabhspoons wheatless bread 

Y2 cup stock crumbs 

1 teaspoon chopped parsley 1 small onion grated 

salt and pepper to taste 
Boil the rice until very tender, butter a mould and line sides and bottom 
half an inch deep with the rice, then add the finely chopped meat which 

18 



has been carefully prepared with the other ingredients, cover closely with 
rice, and steam 45 minutes. Loosen it around edge of the mould, turn it 
on a platter and serve with tomato sauce. 



Tomato Sauce 

2 cups canned tomato 2 tablespoons butter 

1 medium sized onion 1 tablespoon cornstarch 

1 bay leaf, 2 whole cloves salt and pepper to taste 

Cook tomato, onion, bay leaf and cloves together slowly 20 minutes, rub 
thru a strainer, add the blended butter and cornstarch, cook until smooth. 



19 



FISH 

As a nation we use very little fish in comparison with the European 
peoples. Let us learn now to use more fish and save the meat for our 
soldiers. Increased meat production is difficult because of transporation, 
cost of feeding and time. The supply of fish can be multiplied easily, the 
waters aie wide and government propagation is proving wonderfully 
valuable. Fish has as much nutritive value as meat and is perhaps 
its best substitute. 

Baked Fish a la Flambeau 

Use a piece of solid fish about two inches thick, either steak or filet. 
Cover the top and sides with a paste made of meat chopped fine, left-over 
vegetables, bread crumbs, rice, or cereal left from breakfast. Season well 
with onion, celery and so forth. Moisten with stock, gravy or water with 
a little fat. Bake }4 hour. Sherry may be poured over the paste if 
desired. A very good dish, if carefully made. 

Fish Pudding or Souffle 

1 pound or pint boiled halibut }^ tablespoon corn flour or corn- 

(any solid fish will do) starch 

3^2 cup cream or milk 1 3^ teaspoons salt 

1 tablespoon butter fat M teaspoon pepper 

2 eggs 3^ teaspoon onion juice 

Rub fish through puree sieve. Season with salt, pepper, onion juice. 
Make cream sauce by melting butter, adding flour and when thoroughly 
cooked, the cream. When smooth, add fish. Take from the fire and add 
beaten eggs and stir thoroughly. Butter a mould, press the mixture in 
well, cover with greased paper and set in pan of warm water. Bake 
^ hour in moderate oven. Serve with any sauce desired. If a white 
fish is used, a sauce with lobster or shrimp or crab looks well. If salmon 
is used a white sauce with parsley sprinkled over it. Surrounded with 
potatoes cut in balls this is a handsome luncheon dish. Serves a dozen 
people. » 

Mousseline of Fish 
1 lb. raw white fish ^ lb. almonds cut in strips 

1 cup muffin crumbs whites of 4 eggs beaten stiff 

1 cup cream juice of ^ lemon 

1 small onion grated, mace, salt and pepper 
Chop the fish very fine. Put all together carefully, adding egg whites 
last. Steam in a mould or bake in a pan of water or in individual moulds 
for % of an hour. Serve with a rich cream or lobster sauce. 

20 



Salmon Loaf 

1 can salmon 4 tablespoons melted butter 

■1 well-beaten eggs J^ cup muffin crumbs 

seasoning 
Mix well and steam 1 hour 

Sauce 

1 cup milk 2 teaspoons catsup 

pepper and salt 1 tablespoon cornstarch 

1 tablespoon butter 

Boil one minute and stir in 1 egg. Pour over the loaf 

Salmon Souffle 

1 can salmon (about 1 cupful) 1 tablespoon flour 

% cup of milk 1 tablespoon butter 
]/2 cup fme muffin ciumbs whites of 3 eggs 

salt and pepper to taste 

Make cream sauce of flour, butter, milk and muffin crumbs, take from 
the fire, stir in the flaked fish and the stiffly beaten egg whites. Mix 
lightly, cover with crumbs, bake in hot oven 20 minutes. This can be 
baked either in a pudding dish or in ramekins. 

Salmon and Rice Loaf 

1 cup salmon 3^ cup white sauce 

i cup hot boiled rice 1 tablespoon lemon juice 

salt and pepper to taste 1 egg 

Mix all together, season highly. Pour into a buttered dish and bake 
25 minutes. 

Fish a la Creole 

1 thick slice halibut 1 }4 cups tomato sauce 

salt, pepper dry muffin crumbs 

1 small onion 

Season halibut highly with salt and pepper, put in buttered baking pan. 
Spread over with small onion grated, tomato sauce and bread crumbs 
browned in butter. Bake slowly H hour. 

21 



Codfish Cakes 

1 cup row codfish M cup milk or cream 

2 cups raw potatoes 1 egg well beaten 

1 tablespoon butter salt and pepper to taste 

Soak codfish several hours and cook gently for 25 minutes. Cut potatoes 
in quarters, boil until soft, put thru ricer, add fish, mix well together with 
potato masher, add other ingredients, beating until very light. Shape 
into cakes and fry in corn oil. 

Codfish Souffle 

2 cups potatoes 1 tablespoon cornstarch 
1 Yi cups codfish 1 cup milk 

2 tablespoons butter 2 eggs 

season to taste 

Prepare codfish and potatoes as for codfish cakes. Make cream sauce 
of butter, cornstarch and milk, add fish and potatoes, then the yolks well 
beaten and lastly the stiffly beaten whites. Pour in a buttered dish. 
Bake 25 minutes in a moderate oven. 



22 



EGGS 

Poached Eggs with Tomato Sauce 

Toast delicate slices of Quaker muffins, page 8, Place on this, hsU a 
tomato which has been fried. Place on this a poached egg. In the sauce- 
pan in which tomato has been fried, make a sauce by adding corn flour 
and enough milk or water to make the thickness of heavy cream. Season 
to taste, and poui a tablespoonful over each egg. When tomatoes are 
expensive they may be omitted and a sauce used made of canned tomatoes 
as follows: 

Brown a little corn floui in some fat. Add tomatoes which have been 
somewhat cooked and seasoned with onion, etc. Pour this sauce over the 
poached egg and serve immediately. 

Eggs in Cream Sauce with Cheese 

Drop eggs without breaking into the bottom of an earthen baking dish. 
Pour over them a good cream sauce. Cover the top with }4 cup grated 
cheese. Bake until eggs are set. 

Eggs a la King 

Make a cream sauce. Add chopped green peppers, pimento, mush- 
rooms and grated American cheese. Pour this over halves of hard- 
bciled eggs placed on rounds of fried hominy. 

Egg Croquettes 

1 tablespoon butter 2 tablespoons cornstarch 
% cup milk 

Make into white sauce seasoned with chopped parsley, salt, ten drops 
of onion juice. Into this stir six hard-boiled eggs chopped. Shape into 
croquettes, rill in egg and oatmeal wafer crumbs and fry in crisco. 

Egg Timbales 

% cup milk 1 teaspoon chopped parsley 

3 eggs 14 teaspoon salt 

2 tablespoons butter pepper to taste 
3^ tablespoon cornstarch 

Make sauce of flour, butter and milk. Add eggs beaten slightly 
Bake in a ring mold set in hot water 20 minutes. Ser\^e with creamed 
mushrooms, peas, tomato sauce or creamed lima beans. 

23 



* CHEESE 

Cheese Souffle 

Cut crusts off of three slices of brown bread, butter the slices and place 
in a baking dish; cover with 3^ pound grated cheese. Season with salt and 
pepper. Mix 4 well beaten eggs and 3 cups milk and pour over the 
bread. Bake in a pan of hot water until set, about 3^ hour. Five to six 
servings. 

Cheese Souffle No. 2 

1 pressed down cup of bread dash of cayenne 

muffin crumbs • 3 eggs, whites and yolks beaten 

1 3^ cups milk separately 

J^ teaspoon salt }4 pound cheese grated 

Pour milk over crumbs and let stand. Add yolks, then whites, lastly 
cheese. Bake in buttered dish until egg is set. 

Rinktim Ditty 

Make a white sauce, two cups or more 
1 cup grated cheese 

Salt and pepper, and a little sugar and flour. 
1 pint of strained tomatoes 

First melt the cheese by slowly stirring in white sauce. Then add 
tomatoes and before taking from the fire add 2 well beaten eggs. Do not 
let boil. Serve on toast. 

Cheese Pudding with Pimento 

2 thick slices buttered corn 1 pimento 

bread 2 eggs 

% cup cheese chopped in small 3^ teaspoon salt 
pieces 2 cups rich milk 

Put buttered bread like a sandwich and cut into cubes. In a buttered 
baking dish mix bread with pimento, cut in pieces and mix with cheese. 
Beat eggs, add salt and milk, mix and turn over bread. Bake in a very 
moderate oven until pudding is well puffed and eggs are set. 

24 



Cornmeal and Cheese Souffle 

2 ounces butter or drippings 3^ pint milk 

3 ounces cornmeal 6 ounces finely grated cheese 
salt and cayenne to taste 4 eggs 

Melt butter or drippings in a saucepan, mix in cornmeal smoothly, add 
salt, cayenne and milk. Simmer the mixture gently over the fire stirring 
it all the time until it is as thick as melted butter, then stir in the cheese. 
Turn it into a basin and mix with it the well beaten yolks of the eggs. 
Beat the whites stiflQy and stir them gently into the mixture and pour 
into the baking dish, which should be only half filled as the mixture rises 
very high. Bake- 20 minutes. 

Welsh Rarebit 

1 tablespoon butter y^ cup thin cream 

y2 lb. soft mild cheese salt, cayenne and mustard to taste 

1 teaspoon cornstarch 3^ teaspoon mushroom catsup, if 

desired 

Have the butter melted, add the cornstarch and stir until well mixed, 
then add the cream gradually while stirring constantly, and cook 2 
minutes. Add cheese previously cut in small pieces and stir until cheese 
is melted. Season and serve on corn or rye wafers. A rarebit should be 
of a creamy consistency, never stringy. 



25 



VEGETABLES 

White Sauce 

2 tablespoons rice flour 1 cup milk or cream 

2 tablespoons butter salt and pepper 

Melt fat in saucepan, work in flour and seasoning, pour milk on gradu- 
ally, stir constantly to make smooth, cook thoroughly. One table- 
spoon of corn starch or potato flour maybe substituted for the rice flour. 

Potatoes 

A liberal supply of potatoes ought to be found on every table. They 
are plentiful and comparatively cheap, besides being nutritious and ver^^ 
adaptable. They make a good extender to use with other foods which are 
higher priced and less plentiful. Bread can frequently be eliminated from 
meals where potatoes are used. 

Stuffed Potatoes 

Select large smooth skinned potatoes, bake until done. Cut lengthwise, 
remove the inside carefully with a spoon, season with salt and pepper, put 
through a ricer, add enough hot cream to make them light and creamy. 
Pack in the shells, placing half a teaspoon of butter on top of each. Put 
in the oven until slightly browned and serv^e at once. 

A nice luncheon dish is made by placing a poached egg in a depression 
in the top of the potato just before serving. 

Potato ail Gratin 

Block cold boiled potato, mix with white sauce to which has been added 
grated cheese. Put in baking dish, sprinkle with corn bread crumbs and 
cheese and bake in oven till brown. 

To make O'Brien potato add green peppers, pimentos and grated 
onion to the au gratin mixture. 

Potato Croquettes 

Shape well seasoned mashed potato in balls, dip in egg and bind with 
line corn bread crumbs, fry in deep vegetable fat. Treat sweet potato in 
the same way, adding nutmeg as seasoning. 

26 



Escalloped Potato 

Slice raw potato thin. Put a layer in a buttered baking dish, sprinkle 
with salt, pepper and dredge with corn flour. Dot with butter, repeat until 
you have the desired quantity. Cover with milk and bake until the 
potato is soft. 

Small potatoes may be utilized by parboiling in saUed water until nearly 
done. When cold brown in drippings or corn oil. 

Potato Puff 

1 pint hot mashed potatoes 2 eggs 

Season potatoes highly with salt, pepper, celery salt, parsley and 
butter. Make it quite moist with milk. Beat yolks and whites of eggs 
separately and stir into the potatoes when slightly cooled. Turn into a 
shallow baking dish, pile it loosely and bake 10 minutes, or until puffed 
and browned. Adding finely chopped meat to the above makes a variety. 

Hashed Brown Potatoes 

For two cups of cold boiled potato chopped fine, have a third of a cup 
of hot fat in a skillet (bacon fat is very nice) season well with salt and 
pepper. Stir constantly for a few moments. Then let stand to brown 
underneath. Fold as an omelet and turn out on a hot platter. 

Sweet Potatoes with Apples 

Put a layer of sliced boiled sweet potatoes in a baking dish, season with 
salt, paprika and plenty of butter, then cover with a layer of mellow 
apples cut in quarters, over which sprinkle half a cup of brown sugar then 
another layer of potatoes covered well with butter. Bake about forty 
minutes in a moderate oven. 

Glaced Sweet Potato 

Put cold boiled sweet potato in slices in a buttered baking dish, having 
each slice sprinkled with salt, pepper, brown sugar and dots of buttei. 
Baste twice and bake until the sugar has made a syiup. 

Cauliflower or Cabbage au Gratin 

Cook a whole cauliflower or a cabbage cut in quarters in salted water 
until tender. Place in a baking dish and cover with white sauce. Sprinkle 
over with dried corn bread crumbs browned in butter. Covei with grated 
cheese and bake fifteen minutes. 



Corn a la Southern 

To one can of corn add two eggs slightly beaten, salt and pepper to 
taste, a little fat and 1 pint of scalded milk. Bake in a slow oven until firm. 

Squash Souffle 

To 2 cups of mashed squash add 1 cup of top milk, yolks of 2 eggs well 
beaten, salt, pepper and lastly whites of 2 eggs beaten stiff. Turn into 
buttered baking dish, bake slowly 30 minutes. Spinnach, potato, parsnip, 
turnip and carrot may be prepared in the same way. 

Stuffed Pepper 

Split peppers lengthwise, remove seeds and parboil. Fill shells with 
boiled rice seasoned with tomato, any left over meat, a little onion and 
salt, cover with dried corn bread crumbs well buttered. Put in a baking 
dish with half a cup of stock or water and bake about 20 minutes. (Left 
over vegetables may be successfully used for stuffing peppers.) 

Baked Rice 

One-half cup of rice, 3 cups milk, Yi teaspoon salt, bake 3 hours in a 
very slow oven. Stir 2 oi 3 times during the first hour. This is a very 
nice dish to serve with chicken. 

Corn Custards 

1 cup grated corn or cornlet 3^ teaspoon salt 

1 Yi cups milk a little pepper 

4 eggs 
Bake in a single or individual moulds. Turn out on platter and cover 
with cream sauce. 

Baked Lima Beans 

Yi pound lima beans 1 small can tomatoes cooked and 

3^ cup chopped onion strained 

1 green pepper 1 teaspoon cornstarch 

salt, paprika and white pepper to taste 

Soak beans over night. Cook next day until medium soft. Put the 
onion in a spider with 2 tablespoons shortening. When onions are done 
add tomatoes (cooked and strained), add cornstarch and seasoning, and 
green pepper chopped. Add this to the beans and bake 1 hour. 

28 



SALADS 

Salads should have a prominent place in our menus, as they are made 
from fresh fruits and vegetables which cannot be shipped abroad and of 
which our army makes very little use. The combinations are endless and 
if daintily made and served are so delicious that one scarcely misses the 
ante-bellum pie and pudding. 

SALAD DRESSING 

French Salad Dressing 

Yi teaspoon salt 1 tablespoon vinegar 

V^ teaspoon pepper 4 tablespoons oil 

Mix dry ingredients then vinegar, lastly oil and beat until blended. 

Hot Salad Dressing 

2 tablespoons butter 1 teaspoon salt 

Yz cup mild hot vinegar M teaspoon pepper 

1 tablespoon sugar Yi onion chopped fine 
Yi cup sour cream 

Mix dry ingredients, then butter, vinegar and cream. Pour hot over 
any vegetable salad or warm salad. 

Boiled Salad Dressing 

1^ tablespoon mustard 1 cup sour cream 

y^ tablespoon salt Vi cup vinegar 

2 tablespoons sugar 1 teaspoon rice flour 

1 tablespoon butter yolks of 4 eggs 

Mix dry ingredients, add vmegar, then yolks mixed with cream. Put in 
double boiler and cook until thick. Thin with cream to use. 

Mayonnaise Dressing 

Mix juice of 1 lemon with 1 teaspoon of mustard, 3^ teaspoon of salt, 
a dash of paprika. Put one egg yolk in a cold bowl and begin by putting 
oil in drop by drop. As it jellies, thin with the prepared mixture. One 
egg will hold a large cup of oil. A dover beater is most satisfactory for 
making mayonnaise. 

Thousand Island Dressing 

5 tablespoons mayonnaise 1 tablespoon tarragon vinegar 

2 tablespoons cream 2 tablespoons chili sauce or catsup 

Mix in order given. 

29 



VEGETABLE SALADS 

Potato Salad 

Two cups boiled potato cut in small blocks, Yi cup of celery or cucum- 
ber blocked, some grated onion, 2 hard boiled eggs, the whites cut into the 
salad, the yolks riced for a garnish. (California cherries stoned and split 
add a delightful touch.) Use boiled dressing. The salad should be mixed 
an hour before using. 

Rice Salad 

2 cups cold boiled rice well 2 pimentos cut in small strips 

flaked 1 onion shredded 

Mix all carefully with a very highly seasoned mayonnaise and garnish 
with cress, add halves of hard boiled eggs decorated with pimento. Excel- 
lent for Sunday night supper. 

Japanese Salad 

Yi cup hot boiled rice 1 slice of red pepper chopped 

2 hard boiled eggs 1 slice of green pepper chopped 

1 slice of onion chopped 1 sprig of parsely chopped 

Put hot rice into a French dressing, toss carefully so grains do not 
stick together. Chop the egg whites and rice the yolks, add all the 
ingredients to the rice, chill thoroughly and serve on a platter of lettuce. 
Garnish with the parsley and sardines. 

Beet Salad 

Lettuce, slices of cooked beets and cream cheese put through ricer. 
French dressing. 

Salad Eggs 

Cut hard boiled eggs in two lengthwise. Put yolks through ricer and 
mix with salt, sugar, mustard, paprika to taste. Moisten with a little 
vinegar and oil or cream. Fill the whites with the mixture and serve on 
a bed of lettuce. 

Stuffed Tomatoes 

Peel medium sized tomatoes. Remove thin slice from the top and take 
out seeds and some pulp. Sprinkle inside with salt. Fill with string 
beans. Serve on lettuce leaves with mayonnaise. 

Combination Salad 

Lay a slice of canned pineapple on a lettuce leaf. On this place a slice 
of Bermuda onion as thin as a knife blade. Cover this with riced cream 

.0 



cheese then lay a slice of tomato on top with mayonnaise. It is well to 
marinate the pineapple in French dressing an hour before putting the 
salad together. When tomatoes are not in the market little moulds of 
tomato jelly may be substituted. 

Tomato Jelly 

2 cups tomato 1 bay leaf 

1 grated onion 2 cloves 

1 tablespoon sugar 2 tablespoons gelatine 

salt, pepper 
Dissolve gelatin in a little cold water. Combine all ingredients, bring 
to a boil, strain and pour into moulds. 

SWEET SALADS 

Pineapple Salad 

Lettuce hearts, a slice of pineapple, white cherries stoned and stuffed 
with nuts, French dressing. 

Fig Salad 

Whole preserved figs stuffed with cream cheese. Serve on lettuce with 
rings of sweet cucumber pickle and French dressing. 

Prune Salad 

On a bed of lettuce place a slice of orange, a stewed prune stuffed with 
nut meats, on top of this boiled dressing into which has been folded 
whipped cream. 

Apple and Celery Root Salad 
Two tart apples chopped, one small cold boiled celery root chopped, 
some broken nut meats and a few chopped dates. Use boiled dressing 
and lettuce. 

SUGGESTIONS 

For Combining Vegetables in Salad 

Celery with cabbage, tomato with green pepper, string beans with 
hard boiled eggs and celery, brussels sprouts with beets, cucumber with 
onion, asparagus with tomato. 

For Combining Fruits in Salads 

Grape fruit with celery and pepper, grape fruit with pineapple, oranges 
with bananas, pineapple with banana, malaga grapes with nuts, apple with 
nuts and celery, pears with pimento. 

31 



CAKES 

In our cake making experiments we have found that the substitutes for 
sugar, butter and flour have been more satisfactory in little cakes and 
cookies than in the richer kinds of cake. We have, therefore, given almost 
no recipes for the loaf or richer layer cakes. In flours we have used barley, 
rye, rolled oats, rice, potato and corn flour, and cornstarch. All these 
flours should be carefully sifted before measuring and when combined sifted 
at least once. 

Potato flour makes cake of an exquisite texture. As only half as much is 
required as of wheat its price is not prohibitive. All sponge cakes may be 
made with potato flour. In any of our recipes where butter is called for a 
substitute may be used if desired. Oleomargarine, crisco, troco and corn 
oil have all been found satisfactory. Corn oil is particularly nice in com- 
bination with honey or molasses and leaves no disagreeable taste to be 
covered up. 

In all our cake making we have had excellent results by cutting out from 
one-quarter to one-half of the sugar called for in our old recipes. The 
greater part of our cakes call for honey, molasses and brown sugar. 
Frostings do not seem essential in war time; we have, however, given a 
few without sugar. Chopped nuts with a tiny sprinkling of granulated 
sugar make an excellent substitute for frostings. Almonds are particu- 
larly nice, either chopped or put whole on the cake, while chopped peanuts 
are very good for little cakes and cookies. 

NOTE. As we have been obliged at the last moment to cut all wheat 
flour from our cakes we have omitted many of our choicest recipes and in 
others replaced wheat with barley, rice, corn and barley flour. They may 
be lacking in fine texture and will perhaps be crumbly, but they will have 
the greater advantage of being WAR-TIME cakes in reality. 

Liberty Sponge Cake 

^/i cup sugar 4 tablespoons boiling water 

}4. cup potato flour 1 tablespoon vanilla 

1 teaspoon baking powder 3^ teaspoon salt 

5 eggs 
Beat yolks of eggs and sugar together for 10 minutes, or until grains of 
sugar have disappeared, then add boiling water, and flour into which 
baking powder has been sifted and lastly the stiffly beaten whites of the 
eggs, pour quickly into a cake pan and bake about 20 minutes. The oven 
should be quite hot at first; when cake begins to rise and brown a little 
turn the flame quite low. 

32 



Potato Flour Sponge Cake No. 2 

1 cup sugar 3^ cup potato flour 

4 eggs 1 teaspoon baking powder 

flavor to taste 

Beat yolks very light, then add sugar gradually and beat for 10 minutes. 
Then add lightly the stiffly beaten whites and the flour which has been 
sifted twice with the baking powder. Bake from 20 to 25 minutes. 

Potato Flour Angel Food 

whites of 6 eggs 1 scant cup potato flour 

1 cup sugar , 1 teaspoon baking powder 

1 tablespoon cold water 1 teaspoon vanilla 

Beat whites very stiff, add sifted sugar, then water, and flour which has 
been sifted with the baking powder. Pour quickly into angel cake tin 
and bake 30 minutes. 

Corn Flakes Macaroons 

2 eggs, beaten separately 1 tablespoon vanilla 

% cup sugar 1 ^ cups rolled corn flakes 

1 tablespoon corn oil 

Beat the yolks and sugar together until creamy, then add other in- 
gredients, drop by spoonfuls on buttered pans. Bake in quick oven. 

Cornflake Kisses 

2 cups cornflakes — not rolled 1 cup cocoanut 

whites of 2 eggs beaten very 1 teaspoon almond extract 
stiff 1 small cup sugar 

Chocolate Cake 

H cup butter 1 cup white sugar 

}/2 cup riced potato (not packed) H cup sour milk 

]/2 teaspoon each of soda, cloves 3^ cup grated chocolate 

and cinnamon 3^ cup chopped nuts 
1 cup rice flour 2 eggs 

Cream butter and sugar together, add yolks, then riced potato, then 
sour milk, grated chocolate (previously melted) chopped nuts, rice flour 
(with the soda and spices sifted in) and lastly stiffly beaten whites of eggs. 

33 



Cocoanut Kisses 

Whites of 3 eggs beaten stiff, 1 cup sugar added gradually, beat 15 min- 
utes or until very stiff, add quickly 1 cup shredded cocoanut. Drop on 
buttered tin and bake very slowly. 



Wheatless Doughnuts 

1 cup mashed potatoes 1 cup thin sour cream 

1 cup rye flour 1 cup sugar 
}i cup cornstarch 2 eggs 

3^ cup rice flour 1 teaspoon soda 

2 tablespoons corn flour 1 teaspoon baking powder 

3 tablespoons barley flour vanilla and salt 

Beat eggs together until light. Add 1 cup sugar and beat as for cake. 
Add mashed potatoes and sour cream with the soda in it. Add to above 
the flouis and baking powder previously sifted together 3 times, vanilla 
and salt. To roll out the doughnuts, add a little barley and rye mixed. 
Fry in corn oil. 

(We do not encourage the use of doughnuts because of fat necessary for 
frying.) 

Potato Doughnuts No. 2 

1 cup sugar 1 egg 

^2 cup sweet milk 1 cup mashed potatoes packed 
^ teaspoon shortening solidly and riced 

i teapoon cinnamon 1 cup barley flour 

i teaspoon nutmeeg gratd 1 cup rye flour 

3^ teaspoon salt }4 cup rice 

2 teaspoons baking powder 

Mix spice, sugar, salt and shortening together. Add well beaten egg 
and milk. Beat well. Add flour which is measured level before sifted. 
Sift with baking powder and roll out one-half inch thick. Fry in deep 
fat. This dough will be soft, but if let stand twenty minutes after rolling 
out it will be much easier to handle. 

34 



Orange Cookies 

Yi cup butter 1 teaspoon soda dissolved in 

Yz cup brown sugar ~ 2 tablespoons sour milk 

2 eggs 3^ cup raisins 

Yi cup rice flour ' 3^ cup chopped nuts 

2 cups rolled oats grated rind of 1 large orange 

Mix in the order given, drop on tins from a spoon and bake in a moderate 
oven. 

Date Cake 

3 eggs 3^ cup rice flour 
Yz cup sugar Y2 cup barley flour 

1 cup chopped nuts 1 teaspoon baking powder 

1 cup chopped dates Y2 nutmeg, grated 

1 teaspoon salt 

Beat eggs very light, then add the sugar, dates, nuts and seasoning. 
Sift flours and baking powder together carefully, and beat lightly into the 
mixture. Bake in sheets half an inch thick. 

Oatmeal Drop Cookies 

2 eggs 2 cups rolled oats 

1 cup brown sugar 1 teaspoon baking powder 

4 tablespoons corn oil 1 tablespoon cornstarch 
Y2 teaspoon salt 1 tablespoon vanilla 

Mix in the order given, mixing the baking powder and cornstarch 
together before adding to the other ingredients. Drop from a spoon on 
buttered pans and bake in a moderate oven. These cakes may be im- 
proved by the addition of a little cocoanut. 

Honey Cookies 

Y^ cup honey Y2 teaspoon soda 

Y^ cup corn oil 2 tablespoons warm water 

1 cup barley flour 1 cup raisins 

1 cup rice flour Y2 teaspoon nutmeg 

1 egg 1 tablespoon vanilla 
1 teaspoon salt 

Heat honey and corn oil together until well blended. Sift flour, soda, 
salt and nutmeg together. When honey mixture is cooled, add egg well 

35 



beaten, then water and raisins. Add dry ingredients gradually. Drop by 
spoonfuls on buttered pans and bake in a moderate oven. Finely chopped 
nuts and a little granulated sugar sprinkled over the top are a great 
addition. 

Rocks 

1 cup brown sugar 1 lb. walnuts sparsely chopped 

% cup butter ^ lb. dates 

3 eggs 1 teaspoon soda in 

% cup rice flour 1 tablespoon hot water 

^ cup barley or rye 1 teaspoon cinnamon 

1 cup raisins 3^ teaspoon cloves 
Drop by spoonfuls on buttered pans and bake in a moderate oven. 

Chocolate Brownies 

% cup of brown sugar 1 tablespoon lemon extract 

H cup of butter 2 squares Baker's chocolate 

}4 cup of sour milk 3^ cup nuts 

1 teaspoon of soda 3^ cup seedless raisins 

1 teaspoon of salt 1 cup barley flour 

2 eggs ]/2 cup rice flour 

Cream butter substitute and sugar, add yolks of the eggs. Beat soda 
into the sour milk. Add alternately with flours which have been sifted 
together and the stiffly beaten whites of the eggs. Then add the lemon 
extract, salt, melted chocolate, nuts and raisins. Drop on buttered pans 
and bake quickly. 

Barley Cookies 

1 cup brown sugar 4 teaspoons baking powder 
H cup butter 2 teaspoons cinnamon 

3 ]/2 cups barley flour 1 teaspoon allspice 

}/i cup milk 14 teaspoon cloves 

}/2 cup molasses 1 teaspoon ginger 

2 eggs 1^ teaspoon salt 

Cream butter and sugar, add molasses and milk and eggs. Sift flour, 
baking powder, spices and salt carefully together before adding. Roll to 
about 34 inch in thickness. Sprinkle with granulated sugar. Mix rather 
soft. Handle as little as possible and bake quickly. 

36 



Soft Thick Ginger Cookies (Plain) 

1 cup best molasses 1 cup drippings or corn oil 

)4 cup white sugar 2 teaspoons ginger 

3/^ cup brown sugar 3 teaspoons soda 

1 round teaspoon salt 1 well beaten egg 

1 teaspoon cinnamon barley and potato flours 

1 tablespoon vinegar cornstarch 

1 cup buttermilk 

Mix in the order given, adding sufficient barley flour to roll soft. Do 
not mix the dough stiff or the cookies will be hard. Sift 2 tablespoons 
potato flour and 1 tablespoon cornstarch with the barley flour. Bake in 
a quick oven. Recipe makes about 70 cookies. 

"Forward" Cookies 

1 cup corn oil 1 rounding teaspoon ginger 

1 cup molasses 1 teaspoon salt 
3^ cup white sugar 2 cups rolled oats 

2 eggs 1 cup corn flour 

1 teaspoon soda (dissolved in 2 cups rye or barley flour 

3 tablespoons warm water) 1 tablespoon lemon extract 

Beat soda into molasses and add to corn oil. Beat well. Add sugar, 
then stir all dry ingredients together and add to mixture. Beat eggs 
together and add last. Roll as soft as possible, sprinkle with granulated 
sugar and bake in moderate oven. If more flour is needed add equal parts 
of rye and corn. Be sure to sift the flours together before using. 

Hot Water Gingerbread 

}/2 cup corn oil 3^ cup cornstarch 

\i cup molasses 1 ]/2 cups barley or rye flour 

H cup boiling water 1 teaspoon salt 

H cup brown sugar 1 teaspoon ginger 

2 eggs 1 teaspoon soda 
spice to taste 

Dissolve the soda in the boiling water, add to the molasses, stir into 
the butter and sugar which have been creamed, sift the other dry ingredi- 
ents together and add to the first mixture; add the eggs last. Bake in an 
oblong pan 20 to 30 minutes. 

37 



Sour Cream Gingerbread 



}/2 cup rich sour cream 
]4 cup molasses 
}/z cup brown sugar 
1 teaspoon each of soda, salt 
and ginger 

Beat the cream stiff with a Dover beater, then the molasses in which the 
soda has been beaten, then the other ingredients. Bake in an oblong pan 
20 to 30 minutes. 



2 eggs 

]/^ cup corn flour 
}/2 cup rice flour 

1 cup barley flour 
grated rind of a lemon 



Drop Cakes 



1 cup butter 

1 cup molasses 
3^ cup brown sugar 

1 cup sour milk 

3 eggs 

}/2 cup seedless raisins 
% tablespoon soda dissolved in 
hot water 



2 cups rye or barley flour 
]/2 cup rice flour 
]4, cup corn flour 

1 tablespoon ginger 

1 teaspoon salt 

1 tablespoon lemon extract 
}/2 cup chopped nuts. 



This batter when mixed will keep three or four days in the ice box. It 
makes a good dessert as a pudding baked in patty tins and served with a 
creamy sauce. 



Ginger Cookies 



1 cup molasses 
}/2 cup brown sugar 
1 cup butter 



2 eggs 

1 teaspoon ginger 

1 teaspoon salt 

1 teaspoon soda dissolved in 3 tablespoons hot water, flour enough to 
roll very soft. Rice and barley make a good combination. 



Maple Sugar Frosting 

1 cup maple sugar white of 1 egg 

}/2 cup water 

Boil sugar and water together until syrup hairs, then pour it over the 
stiffly beaten white of the egg, beat until stiff enough to spread. Any 
desired flavoring or a square of Baker's chocolate may be added. 

38 



Karo Frosting 

1 cup Karo corn syrup white of 1 egg 

3 teaspoons water 4 marshmallows 

Boil syrup and water until they hair, pour over beaten white of egg, 
add marshmallows, beat till thick and spread. 

Honey Frosting 

Yi cup honey 3 marshmallows 

white of 1 egg 

Boil honey until thick, pour it over the stiffly beaten egg white, add the 
marshmallows which have been softened by placing in a warm oven for a 
few minutes. Beat until soft and creamy and spread over the cake. 

Chocolate Filling for Cake 

1 cup milk yolk of 1 egg 

3 tablespoons cornstarch 1 square Baker's chocolate 

Yi cup maple syrup 

Put milk in double boiler, when hot add flour and cornstarch dissolved 
in a little of the milk, then add melted chocolate and other ingredients. 
Cook until smooth and thick. 

Orange Filling for Cake 

juice and rind of 1 orange 2 rounding tablespoon cornstarch 

juice of 3^ lemon 1 teaspoon butter 

y^ cup sugar cold water 

yolk of 1 egg 
Put rind and juice of orange and lemon juice in a cup, fill with water, 
put in double boiler; when boiling hot add sugar mixed with flour and 
cornstarch, beat well, when cooked add the ^gg and butter. Maple 
syrup may be used instead of sugar by using less water. 



39 



PUDDINGS 

Moulded Charlotte of Rice 

To 1 cup of well boiled rice add 1 cup of hot milk, cook in double boiler 
until very soft, add 1 tablespoon gelatine dissolved in a quarter of a cup 
of water to which two tablespoons of boiling water are added. Then add 
to the rice and milk half a cup rich maple syrup, 2 tablespoons sherry, 
1 tablespoon vanilla, pinch of salt. Remove from the fire, when cold add 
1 pint whipped cream and turn into a mould. Seedless raisins soaked in 
brandy, candied cherries, and angelica may be added. Halved preserved 
peaches are also nice with this dessert. 

A Delicate Rice Pudding 

Yi cup rice 1 quart milk 

3^ cup raisins 2 tablespoons butter 

3^ cup sugar Yi teaspoon salt 
3 eggs a few gratings of nutmeg 

Boil milk, raisins and rice very slowly in double boiler about 1 Yi hours. 
Beat the yolks of the eggs with the sugar, stir it into the rice, add the 
butter, pour into a pudding dish, add the whites which have been stiffly 
beaten with 2 tablespoons of sugar over the top. Place in a hot oven 
about 5 minutes or long enough to bro-^vn the meringue. 

Rice Custard 

Cook Y2 cup of cold cooked rice in 1 pint of hot milk until every grain 
is distinct, add yolks of 2 eggs, Y oi a. cup of maple syrup, a pinch of salt, 
and a teaspoon of vanilla. Cook a few minutes, turn into a baking dish, 
cover with a meringue, brown slightly and serve cold. 

Fig Pudding 

% cup minute tapioca 3 cups cold water 

Y pound cooking figs cut into Y teaspoon salt 
small pieces 1 cup maple syrup 

Cook together in double boiler until tapioca is transparent, then add a 
generous cup of maple syrup or Karo. Cook another 5 minutes and pour 
into a mould. One cup of chopped nut meats may be added. Serve cold 
with whipped cream. 

40 



Plum Pudding 

3^ lb. fine dry corn bread crumbs 1 ^ cups scalded milk 

\^ cup brown sugar 1 heaping tablespoon flour — corn, 

H lb. suet chopped very fine rice or cornstarch 

4 eggs 3^ cup molasses 

Yi cup brandy 1 lb. raisins 

Yi lb. figs y^ lb. each candied orange, lemon 

1 teaspoon mace peel and citron 

1 rounding teaspoon salt 2 teaspoons cinnamon 

1 teaspoon cloves Yi nutmeg grated 

Yi cup chopped walnuts 1 teaspoon soda 

Steam 6 hours in a buttered mold closely covered. Serve with sherry 
sauce. 

Sherry Sauce 

Beat the yolks of 2 eggs slightly, add Yi. cup sugar and Yz cup sherry 
wine. Cook over hot water until mixture thickens, then pour over stiffly 
beaten whites of 2 eggs and beat until served. 

Simple Suet Pudding 

Yi cup suet chopped very fine Yi cup sweet milk 

H cup molasses M cup barley flour 

y^ cup raisins Ya cup corn flour 

Y2 teaspoon soda V^ cup cornstarch . 

3^ teaspoon salt 2 teaspoons cinamon 

1 teaspoon cloves 

Sift soda, flour and spices together, add fruit and suet, mix molasses 
and milk and add to dry mixture. This recipe serves 5 or 6. Steam 
3 hours. 

Foamy Sauce for Suet Pudding 

1 large tablespoon butter Y2 cup light Karo and maple syrup 

1 tablespoon hot water mixed 

Beat all together until melted and creamy. Just before serving add 
white of egg well beaten. 

41 



Peacsh Dumplings 

Yi cup potato flour 1 teaspoon baking powder 

2 tablespoons sugar \i teaspoon salt 

2 tablespoons butter H cup milk 

1 egg preserved peaches 

Sift flour, baking powder and salt. Mix butter, sugar, milk and egg, 
add flour. Put into a buttered cup and press into it a preserved peach. 
Steam ^ of an hour. Serve with whipped cream. This batter makes 
4 or 5 individual dumplings. 

Apricot Pudding 

1 cup of mashed dried apricots whites of three eggs 

y^ cup of sugar 

Steam 1 hour in a double boiler previously greased with butter. Do 
not take the cover of boiler off until pudding has been in an hour. (Apri- 
cots should be soaked in cold water over night and stewed in same water 
until soft, then sweetened to taste, with honey.) Garnish with whipped 
cream and serve with orange sauce. 

Orange Sauce 

1 small tablespoon cornstarch 1 cup boiling water 

1 teaspoon lemon juice 3^ cup orange juice 

2 tablespoons sugar 2 tablespoons Karo 

Mix the cornstarch and sugar thoroughly. Then add boiling water 
slowly and the syrup and cook 10 minutes, stirring constantly. Add other 
ingredients, heat the sauce and serve it hot. The juice of other fruit may 
be substituted for the orange juice and rind. One-fourth cup of candied 
or preserved fruit cut into small pieces may be added. 

Cream Meringue 

whites of 6 eggs 1 tablespoon vinegar (cider) 

2 cups of granulated sugar 1 tablespoon vanilla 

Beat whites very stiff, add sugar slowly, then vinegar and vanilla. 
After all are added, beat for a full half hour. Divide equally and put on 
2 inverted pie tins, place in oven and bake for 30 to 45 minutes. Oven 
must be very hot at first and then turn flame down. Place thoroughly 
whipped cream, or ice cream, on one part and place the other part on 
top and serve at once. If whipped cream is used do not use that which 
is in the bottom of the dish or which is not thoroughly whipped. Fresh 
strawberries may be served on top of meringue or as a sauce. 

42 



Plain Ice Cream 

1 y^ cups fresh milk 3^ cup sugar 

1 level tablespoon cornstarch }/i cup Karo syrup 
yolk and white of 1 egg 1 3^ cups rich cream 

flavoring 
Heat the milk in double boiler, add the flour dissolved in a little milk. 
Beat the yolk of an egg well and add the sugar. Add these to the milk 
and boil like custard. When cool add the syrup and cream and flavoring, 
freeze. Add the beaten white of egg when partly frozen. This amount 
serves six people. 

Maple Sauce (for Ice Cream) 

Yi cup light corn syrup H cup maple syrup 

\i cup cream 

Boil until mixture thickens. Serve hot for ice cream. 

Angel Parfait 

whites of 3 eggs 3^ cup maple syrup 

1 pint heavy cream 1 tablespoon vanilla or peach brandy 

Boil syrup until it hairs, pour over the stiffly beaten egg whites, beat 
until cold, add flavoring and mix with the cream which has been b.eaten 
stiff. Pour into a mould and pack in ice and salt five hours before using. 
In freezing weather this cream can be put in a ring mould and set out of 
doors. It win freeze in about 3 hours. Preserved peaches are nice to 
put in the center if frozen in a ring. 

Coflfee Parfait 

1 pint heavy cream ^ cup sugar 

3^ cup strong black coffee 1 tablespoon brandy 

Add sugar to coffee while hot, when thoroughly cold mix with the cream 

which has been whipped very stiff, put in a mould, pack in ice and salt 

4 or 5 hours. The brandy may be omitted if desired. 

Prune Whip 

1 cup chopped prunes Yz cup sugar 

whites of 3 eggs 
Soak prunes over night and cook until soft in same water. Beat the 
whites of the eggs stiff, add prunes and sugar, put in slow oven with 
baking dish set in dish of hot water. Bake until brown and serve with 
whipped cream. 

43 



Maple Charlotte Russe 

1 tablespoon gelatine dissolved Yi cup maple syrup , 
in yi cup cold water 1 pint cream whipped 

Add gelatine to hot syrup, when cool add to the whipped cream. Pour 
into a mould lined with lady fingers. 

Caramel Custard 

3^ cup sugar yolks of 6 eggs 

3 cups milk 1 whole egg 
pinch of salt 1 teaspoon vanilla 

^ cup caramel 

Make the caramel by putting 4 tablespoons granulated sugar into a 
little iron skillet, with 2 tablespoons of water. Let it cook until quite 
brown, pour it quickly into a pudding dish. When it has become hard, 
pour in the other ingredients. The eggs should be well beaten with the 
sugar, add vanilla, salt and cold milk. Set the dish in a pan of hot water, 
put in the oven until custard is set; about 40^ minutes in a moderate 
oven will be required. When nearly cold turn upside down in a glass 
dish. It ought to come out whole with a delicious caramel sauce over it. 
If caramel sticks to the dish it can be melted by placing in hot water 
again. It is very pretty baked in a ring mould. 

Old Fashioned Indian Pudding 

1 quart milk 1 teaspoon salt 

2 rounding tablespoons yellow 1 teaspoon ginger 

cornmeal 3^ cup seedless raisins 

Yi cup molasses little grated nutmeg 

1 tablespoon butter 1 egg 

Heat the milk in a double boiler. When boiling sift in the cornmeal 
slowly and let cook 10 minutes. Add other ingredients, pour into a 
buttered baking dish and bake 23/2 hours in a very slow oven. This is 
very good served hot with a slice of plain vanilla ice cream. 

Chocolate Cream Pudding 

2 cups scalded milk 2 tablespoons cocoa powder or 

4 tablespoons cornstarch 2 squares Baker's chocolate 
^/i cup sugar 2 tablespoons hot water 

1 saltspoon salt whites of three eggs 

3^ cup cold milk 1 teaspoon vanilla 

♦.44 



Mix cornstarch, sugar and salt, dilute with cold milk and cook over 
boiling water frr 10 minutes, stirring constantly until thickened. Melt 
cocoa or chocolate in hot water, let come to the boil, stir smooth and add 
the cooled mixture. Fold in the whites of the eggs beaten very stiff and 
add vanilla. Tu^n inio a wet mold. When cold, unmold and serve with 
whipped cream. 

Date Pudding 
1 cup wheatless bread ci umbs 1 package seeded dates 

1 cup chopped nuts 1 teaspoon baking powder 
% cup white Karo syrup 3 eggs beaten separately 

}/2 teaspoon vanilla 
Bake 1 hour slowly. Serve with whipped cream. 

Liberty Pie 

sponge cake whipped cream 

raspberry jam 
Make a sponge cake after any of the potato flour recipes given and 
bake in a round flat pan. Put on a large round platter and cover ]/2 inch 
thick with raspberry jam. (If jam is too thin, add 1 teaspoon gelatine 
dissolved.) Spread smoothly and cover with whipped cream. 

Sugarless Candy 

2 cups seeded raisins ]4 lb. each candied lemon and 
1 cup figs orange peels 

blanched almonds - 3 tablespoons honey or 

1 cup English walnuts K glass apricot or orange marmalade 

Put the lemon and orange peels and the figs through the meat grinder. 
Chop raisins, dates and nuts. Mix all together with enough of the honey 
or jam to bind. Line a large flat cake pan with walnut "meats, press the 
fruit mixture in firmly with a palette knife, cover the top closely with 
blanched almonds and cut in squares hke caramels. This keeps in- 
definitely and is a good sweetmeat to send to our soldieis either here or 
in France. 

Apricot Jam without Sugar 

1 pound apricots 2 ounces blanched almonds 

1 cup honey 
Let apricots soak over night with enough water to cover. Simmer 
slowly until water has cooked down and add honey. Cook to desired 
thickness, add the almonds and put into glasses. 

45 



ORGANIZATION 

of the 
mKHD of THE WOMAN'S COMiMl'lTEl 

•>f 

IHK DAiNE COUNTY 
COUNCIL of DEFENSE 

Organized January, 1918 



:25 MEMBERS 



Food Board Cbainmn 



Chairman — Hotels, rest^i 

Chairman — :War breads 

Chairman — Use of flour and butter substitut-;.. 

Chairman — "Window displays 

Chairman — Newspaper publicity 

Chairman — Other publicity (sale 

distribution of bulletins, etc.) 
Chairman — Volunteers (trained foi iouJ dci..oLL.\'-- 
Chairman — For investigation of amount of flour 

per person per week 
Chairman — Conservation in school) 
Chairman — ^Villages and townships 
Chairman — Publicity and windo^v i i 

townships 
Chairman — On wa<.i;; 

Chairman — Food advisors (one me • ' < ; : v. ,- r 
Chairman — Ward organization 
Subchairman— One member from each ward and sul: 

Much of the work of the Food Board is directed 
the food advisors and the ward organization. 



