oooooooooooooooo KEY TO COOKERY ooooooooooooi.'o 

8 



o 



o o 

I KEY 5 



Mrs. Cora E. Hall's. 

TO 
COOKERY. 



6 O 

i 8 

ooooooooooooooooo KEY TO COOKERY oooooooooooooooo 



U O 

8 

W 
W JO 



ii 



Mrs. Cora E. Hall's. 'J 

KEY TO COOKERY ^ 



A practical and up to date guide for the kitchen. 



FIRST KDITICN 



Copyright 1918 by Mrs. Cora K. Hall 



Printed and Published by 

Mrs. Cora E. Hall 

Lodi, Cal. 

©CI.A494043 
m J I 1918 



*o:-^ 



INTRODUCTION. 



After many years of constant work over stoves, ranges aiMl 
different fires that ,cook the food for the hungry ones I am 
l^Iacing this book l)eforc the public with hopes that it will 
lighten labor by helping the mind to do more and the feet 
anrl hands less. 

It is necessary that we practice economy and no doulit 
every woman is the possessor of a good economical cook book; 
This is not a cook book but a key to cookery. However I am 
giving some valuable recipes along with the hints. 

Once a wise man said, "Some co-)ks could throv/' the 
food out of the back \\indow with a spoon as fast as a team 
could haul it into the store room," and while we hope that 
nothing like that is taking place to-day, we cannot help bnt 
realize leaks can and would be stopped if we only knew how 
Many dishes of foods are thought to be ruined by some 
mistake and at the proper moment with a proper <urn 
could be made real appetizing. 

I sincerely hope that after giving this book a careful 
reading it may be hung where it is handy and used to 
advantage. 



> BREAD-MAKING, < 

The followiug mixtures of flour will prove 
to be O. K. in making bread. 

y3 barley and ^ wheat flour. 

X oat-meal, ^ graham and J/2 wheat flour. 

X O'e, X corn-meal and % 

% ■• , /i graham and ^4 

Vz '• and ^2 

J4 iioy bean flour, }( graham and }4 wheat flour. 

Mix somewhat stiff er than white bread 
and do not bake too fast; a moderate oven is best. 

Remember that there is a difference ])e- 
tween kole.kd-oats and oat-mkal. 

A QUICKLY MADE GRAHAM LOAF 

! cup of sour milk, }( cup shortening, i egg, X 
■up molasses, i tea-spoon soda and a little salt. 
use equal parts graham and white flour, stir stiff 
with a spoon, put in single pan and bake immedi- 
ately in a' rather slow oven. 

Different kinds of loaves can be made with the 
above mixtures of flours with this same recipe. 



> ::i<EAD-MAKING. < 

There are three things indispensable to 
snccessfiil bread— making; Good Fi,our, Good 
Ykast and watchfui. cark. 

To Test Flour; Take a handful, close the 
hand pressing well; if it adheres to the hand and 
shows the imprints of the lines of the skin it 
may be relied upon as being good. 

Nkvejr Buy flour with a blue- white color; 
it should be cream-white. 

Never add soda to your yeast; better make new. 

Try adding a bit of ginger to yeast. 

Too much salt retards the fermentation of 
yeast and many good bread makers omit the salt 
in all climates but one must not forget the 
sugar. 

If a generous amount of potatoes are 
used in the yeast the bread will not dry out 
so quickly. 

Bread made from good hard wheat flour 
should be mixed as soft as can be handled, 



> BREAD-MAKING <! 

GOOD BREAD lielps to make the meal more 
complete wliether it be on the plainest or most 
luxurious table, and while it may be simply a 
sayir.g yet it is true: "Satisfy the stomach and 
you f^lorify the $®ie"tcul. 

The time has arrived when the town baker 
is catering to the public by making as near 
home-made bread as possible. 

We well know that whole-whkat, rye and 
graham bread are the three test, and let us 
hope for the betterment of our healtli that white 
bre^d may soon take second place. 
It is no harder to make the above three kinds 
than the plain white, and one may rest assured 
that he will be well repaid for the trouble of 
trying a new kind. 

As there are msny different brands of 
flour and it ts much better to use one particular 
brand when one finds it satisfactory. Hard wheat 
flour is best for bread but ^11 good family flour 
contains a sufficient amount to make it turn out 
good bread if handled properly. 

YEAST: An old standard which has proven 
to be strickly reliably. 

Boil enough potatoes [when cut up fir.e] to fill 
a pi-.it cup, in i% pints of watter until well dor.e 
throw into the kettle j4 cup of flour be.iti:ig wqU 



> BREAD-MAKING < 

so til at it is well scalded, as this helps its keep- 
i: g mid gives it a body; next {dd 2 T sp. sugar. 
Omit the salt. Add next as much cold water or 
cold and hot together as you have ingredients in 
the kettle just so yo:i gQt it about blood heat, 
and put ill >^ yeast cake, set to raise in a warm 
place; it is better after 36 hrs. but can bt used as 
soon as it raises well. If this yeast is kept in £, 
cool place it is good for lo days. 

A little of it may be -jsed iristeiid of 
yeast cake, for a starter the next time. 
In setting a sponge or straight dough use }i 
yeast and J4 water. 

In cold weather warm the flour a triffle 
before mixing. 

Just as good results may be -btained by 
using the dry yeast cake or fresh compressed 
yeast cake if you do not want to take the 

time to make the above. 

Never use too warm water or milk when 

mixing sponge as it is one cause of course bread. 

Scald milk and let it cool to blood heat 

when mifkirg milk bread; this prevents it from 

souring. 

No given rule can be applied as to how 
much, liquid to use as some flour requires more 
than others. 

6 



> BR^AD -MAKING < 

To 4 qts. of flour add 2 rounding T. sps. 
salt aiic" I of sug£r; jiome add lard while others 
use none except to grease outside of loaves. 

If bread is baked too hard rub over with 
lard and wrap in a wet cloth. 

TO Hot an oven forms a firm crust before 
the bread has expanded enough and this makes 
it heavy. 

To Test oven Place a spoon of flour oi 
a tin in oven; if it browns in i minute the heat 
is just right. 

Hot bread is cut much nicer if the knife 
is heated I'Ut for the sake of our health we 
should let 't cool. 

RY}v BREAD requires longer time to 
br.ke aiid remains moist longer. 

Unless bread becomes moldy none should 
ever be waisted as there are many* uses for 
dry bread. 



/ P> BREAD-MAKING. < 

If slightly toasted ground and placed in 
covered receptable it keeps weU for sometime 
and is alwaYs ready. 

For breading steaks, chops, cuttlets, fritters 
and croquettes it not only help«j li cir appearance 
but helps their taste. 

Dry bread may be used in niaking excel- 
lent bread sauces and many good dishes. 

Crumbs rubbed with sugar and cinnamon 
then sprinkled over coffee cake is nice. 

Crumbs toasted a id adde: to an equal 
amount of toasted cocanut, with beaten Qgg and 
sugar, makes excellent filliiig for different sweets. 

Croustades, to be filled with different mixt- 
ures, can be made by baking bread dough in gem 
pans; when cold cut off top and fill. 

Add some ground bread crumbs to your 
griddle cakes. 



> CAKES AND cookip:s< 

It is well to remember that there arc i:>iit 
t'vvo classes of cakes; cakes made v/ith shorten- 
ing such as lard, vegetable oil, butter, cream, etc, 
and cakes witl:out .shortening, tl:e latter belongh:g 
to the SPOXGK CAKE CLASS. 

The first are generally called IIuttem 
CakEs. Much has been said about seperating the 
whites of eggs when making sponge cake, folding 
them in the last thing, but I have found one has 
good success by not seperating them, if your 
proportions are right. Stud}^ ^-our recipes. 

Remember that your shortening when 
cooked is changed to liquid, therefore you may 
count the shortening and other liquids (milk, 
water, molasses ect.) all as liquid. Use }2 cup 
shortening, i cup sugar, j4 cup milk, 2 eggs and 
2 cups flour. This is an old standard reciept 

yet one may change the porportions to suit the 
taste. 

A good rule, Use }i as much shortening 
as sugar and twice as much liquid (shortenit g 
aiMl uiilk) as flour. For a stiff er mixture or 

m<»re solid cake, more flour and sugar mist be 
addled. 



> CAKES and COOKIES <! 

You have A basis for all cakes, and by 
adding spices, nuts, fruits etc., you have the kind 

3'oiT wisli. 

Eggs may not be counted as liquid as 
they change when cooking, and if more eggs are 
used less baking powder is needed. 

Usually I teaspoon of good baking pow- 
der to each cup or >2 pint of floar is the correct 
amount. 

TO STIR CAkK: Always bring the spoon 
arouiid the side of the bovvi in circle untill the 
ingredients are all well mixed. 

TO BKAT CAKE: (spONGR.) Make the 
circles up and down, bringing the spoon out at 
the top this makes the lightness by adding air. 



lo 



>EGGS and CUSTARDS < 

it should be remembered that one of 
-iie greatest tissue Iniiklhig foods is KCGS, and a 
i'ittle practice enables one to prepare tliem to suit 
?^he tastes ot all, 

Kresl: iiggs will alwa>s sink to the bot- 
tom wkjn pr.t into a basin of water. 

ir. making stuffed eggs, fancy or other 
delicate <'i^lies some have trouble with the whites 
being too thin or. o!:e sice when boiled: this may 
be avoir!e<i by nHti.g a liolder so they may lie 
^tood oi' end while lioiling. 

To SOFT B<MI, ^KR^- ^"t on in COLD 
water -ai-aI let come to a I oil. take np and ser^e 
immediately. 

Another way. Put cg^s in dish, pour 
SOILING water over them, covrk and set on 
back of stove for .3 minutes, tlien ser\'e. 

Always use thresh milk and ^kksh 
eggs in making custards. 



tf 



>EGGS aiKl CUSTARDS < 

For CUSTAKD try 6 eggvS, 1 qt milk, y± 
cup sugar and a little 3alt. 

Too MUCH sugar aud too long baking 
cause-5 custards to become watery. 

Boiled custards should cool quickly. 

Bak-RD custards and open pies should 
be cooled slowly and never put to cool in a 
draught. 

V 

To make it the bbst baked custard 
bake slowly but not too slowly, by ])laci:ig the 
basin in. a pan of hot water in oven. 

Oelatme soaked in cold water and add- 
ed to boiled custards just Ijefore removing from 
the fire helps to make them lighter. 

If milk is heated untill nearly boihiig 
and the sugar cheu added the eggs will not 
curdle when poured into it. 



12 



;>EGGS and CUSTARDS <! 

To make a velvety B011.KD custard beat 
yolks, add sugar and stir into HOT milk NOT boil- 
ing a tablespoon at a time untill well heated, 
then beat in the beaten whites; but, do not coor 
t) long as it may curdle. 

Always use frt^^sh milk and "i^RKSH eggs 
in making custards. 

NKWLY LAYKD eggs must be cooked a 
trifle longer than those a few days old. 

Soft boiled and poached eggs are by far 
the eavSiest to digest. 

Duck and turkey eggs are much strong- 
er, especially the whites, than hens eggs and one 
finds them alright in making cakes and custards. 



13 



> FRIED CAKES and FRITTERS <^ 



What is more appetizing than a dish of 
nice fritters? 

There are two things which canse a gre- 
at many to fail in making fr"tters, first, they 
mak- the batter Too rich and second, their fry- 
ing fat is not hot enough. 

Many seem to think that crkam puffs 
and pnff fritters are hard to make, ;^ut it is a 
mistake. 

The same kind of mixture can be used 
for puff fritters as is used for cream puffs a id 
sometimes pufE fritters are filled and called cream 
puffs. 

Recipe; Place i cup water, a little salt. 
2 tablespoons sugar an.d 2 heaping teaspoons but- 
ter or shortening ori fire and let it just come 
to a boil, then throw into it about two cups of 
flour stiring briskly untill it forms a ball and 



t4 



FRIED CAKES and FRITTERS <; 



leaves the sidCvS of the kettle, take off and let 
sJightl}^ cool, then add 5 eggs (6 snial] ones) i at 
r. time nixing well, al^o a little flavor, drop ori 
pans an.fl bake in guiCK oven or fry ir. hot fai 
V hen cool cnt off tops aiid fill to eirit the taste. 

A httle powdered sugar sprin.kled over 
sweet fritters iniproves their taste as well as the- 
ir looks. 

Vegetable fritters; thoroly cool \'egetables 
and dip them in olive oil just betv^re dii)ping into 
the batter. 

To TKvSt frying fat place -n it a small piece 
of white Ijread, if it turns a golden brown in 
6o seconds it is ri^ht for luicooked foods, and 
in 40 seoiids for cooked foods, such as meat 
fritters made from the left over roast or boil. 

GKir)Di.K CAKT^ are lighter if whites are 
jdded just before frying. 



1.5 



FRIED CAKES and FRrTTERvS< 



Batter for fritters are much lighter if 
made an hour i)efore using, and still better if the 
whites are then added just before frying. 

Better to use sugar sparingly in batter 
as it tends to make it heavy. 

Griddle cakes are much belter if only 
turned once and served the same side up as 
when taken from the griddle. 

Shortening or fats that are a bit strong 
or old may be greatly improved by heating hot 
and frying in them a potatoe thinly sliced. 

Fkikd Cakes and Donuts need not be 
greasy or take up much grease if some mashed 
potatoes are added. 

Fried Cakes, i heaping cup sugar vy^. 
cups ni'lk, 1 teaspoon butter or lard 2 eggs or 
4 yolks about 4 cups flour i tablespoon baking 
powder 1 cup cooked and mashed potatoes 



[6 



> FRIED CAKES and FRITTERS < 



cream potatoes, sugar and butter, then add 
ether ingredients, handle as Httle as possible, and 
above all be sure your frying fat is hot. 

Should the above become a bit old and 
liard set them in the oven a few moments an]d 
they are just like new. 

Y-z lard and % suet is a good frying fat. 

Shortening for biscuit and griddle cakes 
may be melted and added to the milk or water, 
instead of being mixed with the flour, with good 
results. 

Iron gem and muffin pans are considered 
better than tin. 

BAKING POWDKR and WKLL BKTKN eggS 

ir.ake lightness in cakes and waffles while a 
liberal amount of shortening makes them crisp. 

In using fats for frying have enough 
to completely cover the food you are cooking 
andcv'that it is hot knough; Then the articles 
will not absorb as much: hft out as soon as done. 



> FRUITS and VEGKTABLES< 



It has bee i proven 'cy scie itific men that 
a vegetable diet is far superior to all otiiers. 

The aiiiuiaT'eats the vegetable and hi tur:i 
we eat the animal. Is it not a fact that we 

would be STRONGKK, HEALTHIER and HAPPIKK if 

we get the vegetable first instead of eating them 
after they are turned into flesh? A large portion 
of those same vegetables that make the fat, blood 
and flesh for the ox will make them for the hu- 
man. 

I^et us hope that beef like white bread 
may soon take second place on the table. 

We need not worry about the high price 
of meat. 

for bread and nuts accompanied by vegetables 
may be well appreciated and do more good at 
less cost. 

Nuts may be thought high in price but 
you must reoiember that a few goes a io:.i'=^ uma's 
towards supplying the body with building m^l. .- 
al. 



18 



> FRUITS and VEGETABLES 



To keep h^eni^s from becoming mushy, 
when iriakino^ bosT(>>t rarkd, put on in cold wa- 
ter and p.fJd about Ys the required amount of salt, 
addin,2: the remainder wl^en placed to bake; thev 

^"i1l l^e soft bnt rel.'dr. th.eir shape. 

Old potatoes are improved after boiling, 
by dippinw- in beaten esj? and then rolled in bread 
crnms and fried, in '^.ee]-) i-it, to a sfolden brown. 

Before cookincr onions soak i-^ warm salt 
water 1 hour and they loose their rank gdor. 

CAR POTS, TURNIPS ar.d onions will cook 
• iich quicker if cnt crosswise instead of split. 

Nkvkr let vegetables str.nd in the water 
in which they are cooked; drain and add dressing! 

Vegetables are nicer if picked hi the ear- 
ly morn, while the dew is on, and pnt in cool 
water untill needed. 



1-9 



:> FRUITS and VEGETABLES < 



In boilino^ cabbage a small piece of red 
pepper' will remove the rank odor. 

A little soda preserves the color wlie-i 
cooking greens. ' 

If potatoes are frozen put to bake with- 
out thawing. 

When cooking fruit or svrups leave lid 
off and be sure sides of kettle are dry; then 
grease a strip all around, about 1 i.icli wide, just 
l)elow the top, with butter or lard, and you need 
not fear of the contents boiHng over. 

Cranberries are improved by adding a few 
chopped dates, and a pinch of salt. 

Putty may be used instead of sealing wax 
by pressing it down a few times as the can cools; 
the cans are opened more easily. 

Place all canned and dried fruits and 
vegetables in a dark, dry cool place. 



20 



> FRUITS and VEGETABIvES< 



Strawbkkeiks will hold their color bet- 
ter if the syrup is cooked first; place berries into 
it, heating well but do not boil, and put in stonk 

JARS. 

If apricots nre peeled they will not re- 
quire S3 much sugar. 

Stewed prunes are much better if a stick 
of ciiniamon is added while cooking; when done 
add some lemon juice. 

Never put up catsups or sauces contain- 
ing acids, in tin unless the cans are first coated 
on the inside with parowax, and then the contents 
must be cold when put into them. 

Lkttucr, when it gets too old for salad 
:iiay be cooked the same as {Spinach, 

Vegetables may ])e cooked, to an advan- 
tage by putting to boil in the broth in which 
salted meat has been cooked. 



21 



:-FRUrTvS and VEGKTABI,ES< 



To long- cooking spoils the flavor of bei- 



Apilk irjTTKH and jams are better fla- 
vored and cook quicker if first boiled and mashe''l 
before adding sngar. 

Cranberries can be candied and used the 
same as cherries. 

Lemons remain fresh longer if placed i:i 
cold water, changing the water everv 4 days. 

Soft fruits retain their shape if a heavy 
hot syrup is poured over them and left to simm- 
er untill done; while the more firmer fruit should 
be cooked v\ a weak syrup and then a heavier 
syrup added at the fiinish. 

Cranberries mny be kept fresh all wiriter 
if placed in a dark place in cold water, changing 
the water every ten days. 



22 



> FRUITS and VEGETABLES < 



Cabbage, Kale, Cauliflower, and Lettuce 
should be placed, top cown, in cold water to rid 
them of insects. Salt in. the water kills them loo 
suddenly and they stick to the vegetable. 

Salt should rot ) e put in vegetables or 
soups until tl.ey are skimmec^ as the salt tends 
to settle the impurities pievei ting the scum frciv. 
rising. 

If by chance your boiled vkgetablks oi 
MKAT is too salty tie a cloth over kettle, sprinkle 
well with flour, let boil % hr. The flour absorbs 
the salt, rinse the cloth in cold water to clean. 

Potatoes: old ones are improved by peel- 
ing them and placing in cold water for a few 
hrs. changing the water ofter, 

Tough vegetables are made tender :^nd 
cook quicker if a pinch of soda is added at boil- 
ing point. 



23 






> FRUITS and VEGKTABI,ES< 



PoTAToiSS turn black sometimes while 
boiling; Try putting a little vinegar into the wa- 
ter. 

Watkry potatoes are improved by add- 
ing a little lime water while boiling. 

Always put potatoes on in boiling water 
and when done drain immediatly. 

If potatoes stop boiIvING before done or 
boil too lon>^ they are liable to beco.ue soggy. 

Remember the best part of the potatoe 
is next to the skin. 

To BLANCH ve^ftables: Put on in cold 
water, let come to a boil, boiling same from 3 to 
5 minutes and then rinse in cold water. 

Tomatoes: To remove the seeds from 
them when stewed add a dash of cold water, let 
settle and pour oft" into another vessel. 



24 



>GAMB and FISH< 



Always draw wild and tame fowls as 
soon as possible after killing, 

Gamk that has become a bit tainted is 
tuade quite well for cooking by soaking a while in 
cold sweet milk. 

In washing rabbits or birds use COLD 
water and as little as possible, then dry quickly. 

Wild DUCfsS and gkousk are considered 
l>est roasted. 

PiGKONS and DovKs are much better if 
laid over night in salt water. 

Soaking GAMK in water w'th some soda 
or parboiling with an onion helps to do away 
with the strong taste. 

Fresh majoram, i)arsley, thyme and l^ay 
leaves are excellent for f'avoring game as well as 
chicken and beef. 



25 



>GAMB and FlSH<i 



Frksh watkr fish are improved by plac- 
ing in salt water over night and then rinsed off 
and wiped dry; they loose their muddy taste. 

Put some vinegar and salt in the water 
in which you boil frksh fish; they retain their 
flavor and remain firmer. 

Alwav'S put fish on in boiling water and 
let simmer until done. 

Dry salt fish should be soaked skin side 
up; The salt leaves the meat and settles to the 
bottem of the pan. 

Salting- oysters while cooking causes them 
to become hard; salt when done. 

Keep shell oysters in cool place and 
sprinkle often with salt water. 

Try putting a little baking powder in 
the cracker dust or meal when breading oysters 
or clams. 



26 



> HINTS on SANDWICHES <^ 

Always trim and shape sandwiches before 
spreading with butter and filHng. 

Sour or swk}':t picklks go well with 
Fandwiches, and in fact they are necCvSsary to 
make them complete. 

SoMK Fillings. 

Eoiled eggs run through ricer or sieve 
ar.d mixed witli minced ham or other cold cooked 
meats and well seasoned. 

Olives chopped with cream cheese and 
nuts. Jam or preserves mixed with cheese, and 
for RICH ones add chopped raisins, dates cr figs. 

Grated cheese seasoned wdth a few drops 
of onion juice and a bit of mustard. 

Grated cheese and ham is very nice. 

Cold chicken minced with pickles also 
chicken with currant or cranberry sauce. 

Minced asparagus with mayonaise. 



27 



> HINTS on SANDWICHES < 

Boiled p:ggs run through a sieve and 
mixed with butter and a little sr.lt, pepper and 
])aprika, or mixed with minced ohves or pickles. 

Flaked salmon mixed with mayonaise or 
lettuce and mayonaise. 

Minced lobstrr meat and cheese season- 
ed with mustard, salt and red pepper. 

Sliced peeled tomatok sprinkled with 
ParmevSan cheese. 

Sandwiches are easily made and they 
may be put up to suit the taste of all. 



28 



> HINTS on the use of SODA< 



All brands of soda and sai^t are not of 
the same strengtli, therefoie it is best to confine 
oneself to some trcod brand and by getting accus- 
tomed to it one need not fear of using too little 
cr too much of either. 

Too much SODA gives cakes and biscuits 
a greenish color and a bad taste. 

The right amount is about Yz tea sp. to 
1 cup of liquid. 

Always dissolve soda in the liquid nnd^ 
get the mixture in to bake as quick as possible. 

Add a pinch of soda to .'•oup stock; it 
will keep lons:er. 

Kub meat with dry soda 24 hours before 
cooking and wasli off when putting on to cook; 
it will help to make it tender. 

Add 1 teaspoon soda to each pint c.f beans 
bring to a good boil, drain, wash and add boiling 
w^ater; they will cook much quicker. 



29 



ICE-CREAM and ICES<^ 



If ick crram and icks are frozen in a 
warm place they will freeze much quicker, owing 
to the rapid melting of the ice. 

Pure cream is too rich for ice-cream. 

In making ices always stir well until all 
the sugar is dissolved or it will settle to the bot- 
tom. 

The more cream used in ice-cream the 
longer it takes to freeze it. 

Scald (do not l)oil) i quart of sweet milk 
pouring the same, while quite hot, over 3 well 
beaten eggs to which i cup of sugar has been 
added, have soaked i table-spoon gelatine and add 
it also. Cool all thoroughly and mix hito this i 
Yt. cup of sweet cream and some flavoring. Put 
in a 2 gallon freezer and turn lively until nearly 
done. If i^KozRN correctly you will have velvety 
ice-cream. 



30 



-.ICE-CREAM and ICES< 



Pkach Shkrbet 

I quart sweet milk, i cup sugar, 2 egg 
whites, I lemon and 6 lar^e ripe peaches. Put 
^ugar in a bowl squeeze juice of lemon into it. 
Put milk and sliced peaches in freezer and thor- 
oughly CHILI, (this chilling keeps the acid from 
curdHng the milk) then adrl lemon and sugar, also 
the beaten whites folded in and freeze the same 
as ice-cream. 



Pineapple Cream Sherbet 

Place I quart sweet milk into the freezer 
well packed with ice. Squeeze the juice of i lemon 
into 1% cups of sugar and after milk is chilled 
add to it, also a<ld i^ cups of cooked pineapple 
and lastly fold in 2 well beaten egg whites. 



31 



>ICE-CRKAM and ICKS< 



Apricot Sherbet. 

Apricots boiled in syrup; when done rub 
through a fine sieve, the syrup and pulp then put 
into freezer and frozen; when nearly done, add a 
flavoring of maraschino and the beaten whites of 
3 eggs, then frozen 5 minutes. 

If these 4 recipes are made and frozen 
correctly they will be excellent. The smothness 
depends upon the milk being well chilled before 
adding any acid, such as lemon juice. 

lyKMON WaTRR ICK. . 

Boil 2 cups water and i cup sugar; beat 
until cold. Add grated rhid of i lemon and the 
juice of 3 lemons and the whites of 4 eggs beat- 
en until stiff. 

Orange Water ice. 
Substitute 2 table-spoons lemon juice, 
rind of i orange and ^z cup c range juice for 
lemon juice. 



32 



;. ICINGS < 



CarmkI/ icing will net crack if made thu?i 
y^, cup vinegar, add enough sugar to take it up; 
llien beat into it the whites of 2 egge; beaten stiff. 

Pkrfkction Icing. 

The secret of making this icing so that it 
is not sticky and will remain soft is in the cook- 
ing of the syrup. Soak until well dissolved, Y^ 
tea-spoon gelatine in a little water, cook lYz cr.]y> 
sugar, /2 cup lieav}-, clear, corn syrup and ]'z 
cup water until it threads well (when the threads 
i>low away fro.n the spoon) take off, add gelatine, 
then pour this very slowly over the well beate:i 
white of I egg. You may use any flavcriug. 
this icing can not be excelled. 

Fresh mnshed stiaw])er:ies mixed with 
enough powdered sugar to spread is very nice 
for layer cakes. 

Dip knife in cold water when spread uig 
icing and it will be suother and more even. 



33 



> ICINGS < 



Icing with Gklatink. 



Dissolve Yz tea-spoon gelatine in 6 tabic - 
spoDns BOILING water; strain and thicken with 
suj^^ar and flavor, this will ice two cakes. 

Add chocolate to perfrction icing- and 
3'ou will have an excellent chocolate icing. 

Add I cup mixed candied fruit and niilo 
to perfection icing and yon have Tutti-frutti icing 

Icings should l)e beaten in earthen or 
chitia ware if possible. 

To meringue should be added a little sait 
or cream of tartar while beating the whites. 

In cooking fudgk take off when at the 
boiUng point; place kettle in a larger one filled 
with cold water and stir until firm. 



34 



>JKLLIKS, JAMS and PRESERVES- < 

Always use the best granulated sugar in 
making these 3 sweets. 

Jelly made of currants or grapes should 

not be over-ripe by ::o means. 

• 
Gelatine ma}^ be soaked in cold water 

and then boiled, toward the last, with the juice to 

thicken it, but do not boil long after adding as 

it will make the jelly tough. 

Tin is not considered good to cook jelly 
and jams in. 

Brightest and nicest jellies are made 
without anything to thicken them, simpl}^ sugar 
and juice. 

2 pints of juice and i pint of sugar are 
tiie right proportions for jelly. 

Always put the jellie.-". into tlie glassc? as 
s?on as possible. 

T^^'^ashing the fruit before cooking it when 
making jam keeps it from getting hard. 



>JKIyIvIKS, JAMS and PRBSHRVBS-<: 



To make marmai^adr clear add a lump 
of batter just before taking from the fire. 

To TKST jam, place some on a plate, let 
it cool, and if it has a dry glossy look it is done- 

Marmalade and jam should be watched 
and constantly stired. 

Use al30ut % pound of sugar to each 
pound of fruit. 

Some do not consider a damp, cloudy day 
a good time to make jeUies as they are not so 
firm and clear as when made on a clear day. 

Should jelly not seem firm enough set 
the filled glasses in the sun for 2 days, covered 
with cheese cloth. 

To test JKLLY drop a few drops hi ice 
water; if it falls to the bottom it is done. 

When paring fruit put it into cold water 
and it will not turn dark. 



36 



> JELLIKS, JAMS and PRKSKRV£;S- < 

Boil the mashed fruit for jams a few 
• iiiutites before adding the sugar; it will have a 
[•etter flavor. 

Marmaladks are best made from firm 
^ruits. while jams are best [made from the soft 
and juicy fruits. 

Graph jelly burns very easily, and in 
fact it need not stick to the lj>ottom of the kettle 
in order to burn; an asbestos mat placed under 
the kettle will help. 

PrBS«rvks made of equal parts apples 
and strawberries are excellent. 

Carrot Sweetmeats. 

Boil small fine-grained carrots in water 
till tender; add sugar, pieces of citron and some 
fruit juice simmer slowly together and put in jars 
very wholesome for children and \'ery much liked 



37 



> MKATS and FOWIvS. < 



Ee sure the grease is hot when frym- 
meat. 

Frozen meat may be thawed by laying 
over night in cold water and placed where it wiil 
not freeze again. Cook as soon as thawed. If not 
well thawed it is liable to be tough. 

Rub the cut side of a ham with corn 
meal or lard; it keeps it from drying out. 

Put Fowr.s on in boiling water and keep 
just boilmg, but not to hard as hard boiling helps 
them to fall to pieces. 

Old fowls are better if steamed or boil- 
ed and then fried or broiled. 

Place suet well under the flour in center 
of barrel; it will keep longer. 

r 

I^ard fowls with strips of bacon when 
baking. 



38 



> MEATS and FOWI^S. < 

Whkn dkkssing fowls try making a cut 
down back of neck, spread apart and take out 
crop; more dressing can be placed where the crop 
was by cutting this way and is easier sewed up. 

Carr must be taken not to fill the cavit- 
ies FULL as it makes the dressing heavy. 

If ham is too salty soak over night in 
sweet milk. 

Try parboiHng kidneys and lei same set 
over night in the broth; this helps to take away 
the strong flavor, they are excllent then made in- 
to SOUTH. 

When boiling tough fowls add some vine- 
gar when putting on to cook. 

Allspice and cloves are good for flavoring 
meats. n 

Never add salt to any boiled meat until 
nearly done. 



39 



> MKATS and FOWLS. < 

If "i^owLS are to be roasted in pieces place 
in pan skin side down. 

Try a large red pepper in your kettle of 
boiling meat; it will destroy the unpleasant odor 
while cooking. 

Always have the oven hot when you 
])ut in a roast and a good fire to finish it. 

If a KOAST is allowed to brown before 
adding water it retains a much better flavor. 

Place TOUGH stakes in a mixture of equal 
parts \-inegar and salad oil for 3 hours turning 
every >2 hour; then fry quickly. 

To PICK FOWLS: Put on a board or table 
head toward you and pull out feathers from you 
with quick jerks; you will not tear the flesh. 

Rub fowls with a piece of lemon; it helps 
to make them tender and whitens the meat. 



40 



> OMELKTS. < 

Do not beat eggs too much for omelets. 

Here are 2 standard recipes. 
For 2 persons take 3 eggs, yolks and whites beat- 
en seperately; add salt and pepper and 3 table- 
spoons hot water to yolks and beat a little, pour 
into HOT greased pan and fold in the whites, and 
when SET and browned underneath fold to middle; 
place on a hot plate so as to not fall. 

All omelets should be eaten as soon as 
cooked. 

For 2 persons. 3 eggs lightly beaten, i 
cup of milk, I table-spoon flour mixed smoothly 
with a little milk and added to eggs and remain- 
der of milk, some salt and pepper. Have the skil- 
let HOT. 

By adding i level table-spoon of sugar to 
either of the above you have a sw«KT omelet. 



41 



> PASTRY and PUDDINGS. < 

Always press evenly when rolling any 
kind of PASTRY. 

Kggs and MiivK, or sugar and milk are 
good mixtures to wash pastry with; be careful not 
to let it run over the sides. 

For PUFF paste use from % to i pound 
of good shortening, pure and sweet, (it need not 
be butter) to every pound of flour. 

Always remove juicy pies from the tins 
as soon as baked. 

Try washing with ^gg white the bottom 
crust, before pouring in the liquid. 

Juicy pies are much nicer if baked in a 
moderate oven. 

A good thickening for very juicy pies is 
corn starch, mix it with the sugar before adding 
it to the pies. 

A little vinegar added to the pie dough 
makes it more flaky. 



^2 



> PASTRY and PUDDINGS. < 

The LAST THING to be added to fruit pies 
IS the sugar; then get them into the oven as soon 
as possible. 

Try a soft brush to wash pastry, but 
never dip it in hot water. 

Very dklicatk pie crust may be rolled 
on wax paper and then turned into the pan with 
ease. 

Butter makes a pie dough of an amber 
color and very rich. 

Never stretch pie dough; always roll it 
large enough. 

To AVOID pie made of fresh fruits from 
running out or sticking, cook fruit a little, add 
sugar, put into pie shell, seal edges well and bake. 

When baking a pie with under crust only 
try turning pie plate upside down spread dough 
on it and bake. 



43 



> PASTRY and PUDDINGS. < 



A PERFECT baked custard is cooked by 
placing a pan of scalding water on a few folds of 
paper in the oven; mix the custard and place the 
bake pan in pan already in the oven. Do not let 
the water in under pan boil and you will have a 
velvety custard. 

Boiled custards are considered best on 
account of being lighter and more easily digested. 

In boiling puddings keep the water boil- 
ing until done. 

Bakkd custards to which corn-starch is 
added should be cooked a little before putting in 
the oven; this prevents the starch from settling to 
the bottom. 

Bakkd custakds should have a moderate 
oven while batter puddings require a quick oven. 

Always grease and flour the pan when 
baking a pudding. 



44 



> PASTRY and PUDDINGS. < 

When pudding is done dip the sack or 
can, in which it is boiled or steamed, into cold 
water, remove pudding and serve at once. 

Wring bag out of cold water, flour it and 
put in pudding mixture; then have the water in 
whicli you boil it in boiliisg hot and plenty to 
cover the bag. 

In washing bags that are used for boiled 
puddings never use soap; always clear cold water. 

By boiling i pint milk, i table-spoon corn 
starch, }i cup sugar, 2 eggs a pinch of salt and 
a little flavoring you have an excellent filling for 
puff paste articles. 

Carrot pudding— i cup molasses, i of 
stewed and mashed carrots, i of suet chopped fine 
I of raisins, i>^ cups flour I tea-spoon of soda a 
little salt and spice to taste, and steam two hours- 
Serve with a sauce made of I cup sugar, I 
table-spoon corn -starch a little nutmeg well mixed 
then pour a pint of boiling water over it. 



45 



> PICKLKS, SAI^ADS and SAUCES. < 

Add a lump of ai,um the size of an al- 
mond to each gallon of pickles when first scalded; 
it helps to keep them crisp. 

Brink for pickIvKS: i pint of good salt to 
each gallon of water; they should take up enough 
salt to have a pleasant taste. 

Have pickles cold and dry after scald- 
ing before pouring on the vinegar. 

Green and red peppers are much better 
for pickles than pepper corns. 

Pickles are better if kept in stone -ware 
or glass, and if vinegar gets specks on top drain 
o£F, scald, add a little sugar, cool and replace. 
The vinegar should be one inch above pickles. 

Better to use granite-ware when «^calding 
pickles, using the best cider vinegar. 

PickIrd onions — Take off all the outer- 
skin of small silver-skin ed onions, put them in 
BRINK that will float an KGG, for 3 days, drain, 



> PICKIvKS, SAI.ADS and SAUCES. < 

put a layer of onions 3 inches deep in jar, then a 
sprinkling- of horse-iadish, cinnamon bark, cloves 
and a little red pepper; repeat till jar is filled, in 
proportion of Y?. tta-spoon pepper, 2 tea-spoons of 
horse-radisii and 4 table-spoons of cinnamon bark 
to a gallon of ]nckles; bring- vinegar to boiling 
puint; add l^rown sngar a quart to a gallon of vin- 
egar and pour hct over onions. 

y 

Vegktablks for pickles should be firm 
and free from bruises and decay; if net used as 
as soon picked put in co'd water to keep fresh. 

Scotch salad --One part of flakes of cook- 
ed salmon to two parts of diced celerj-; season 
with oil, vinegar aud salt, served on lettuce, mask 
with mayonnaise, garnish with q.%% and stuffed 
olives. 

Egg PtANT salad— Cold well boiled egg 
i4ant, cut in dice and well seasoned with olive 
oil and lemon juice; served on a leaf of lettuce. 



47 



p> PICKI^KS, SAI,AD3 and SAUCKS, <: 

PoTATCK SALAD -Sliced cold boiled pota- 
toes, fried diced l^acou (with the fat thrown over 
the potatoes), salt and pepper, the whole well 
mixed with cream salad dressing. 

Crkam drkssing--)^ cup each of while 
vinegar and melted butter, tea-spoon mustard, >4 
tea-spoon of paprika, 4 yolks of eggs, i pint whi})- 
ping cream. Boil the vinegar, butter and seasoning- 
together; pour it over the beaten yolks, stir over 
the range till like custard, remove and cool, then 
whip the cream and beat it into the dressing. 

Mayonaise dressing — Have every thing 
cold, using yolks only, add sah, pepper, paprika, 
mustard and oil, beating untill thick; the acid, lem- 
on juije or vinegar is used to thin it. It is not 
necessary to drop the oil drop by drop. 

Purr olive oil is far superior to common 
sweet oil in making salads. 



48 



> PICKI.es, salads and SAUCES. < 

If maygnaisk dressing curdles try adding 
a few drops of ice water or a bit of melted butter 
and beat up again. 

IvKSS HGG yolks may be used in making 
some salad dressings if they are well mashed and 
mixed with twice their Aveight of mashed potatoe. 

Butter sauce or any sauce containing 
eggs should never l)oil. 

Cocoa NUT that has become dry may be 
improved by soaking it in sweet milk over night; 
then use it to make pudding or sauce. 

After chickens are boiled, cool broth and 
skim, using the oil for salad. 

Old butter may be freshened by cutting 
in small pieces and placing in sweet milk for J2 
a day. 

Cream cheese and chiUi sauce when uuk- 
'ed and serv^ed on lettuce is a fir.e relish. 



■iy 



> Cxe;nii:rai. hints. < 



CccoA: A pinch of salt added to a cup of 
cocoa brings out the flavor. 

Macaroni: Always place to cook in boil- 
ing water, and when tender drain and rinse in 
cold water to remove the starch. 

Stains: Corn-starch w^ill take oiit grease 
or sweat stains if rubbed in while fabric is wei. 

Oil Cloth: A table-spoon of bees- wax 
added to a cup of turpentine is fine for oil-cloth 
or linoleum, to keep it bright. 

A Cleaner: I oz. of solvite to a gallon of 
gasoline cleans the most delicate fabrics. 

Ink Stains: They can be removed, if not 
to old, with lemon juice or sour milk. 

Rugs: Try turning them upside down to 
sweep; the dirt falls out more easily. 

Two of the best disinfectents and pun' 
fiers are coal-oil and soap. 



50 



> GENERAIv HINTS. < 

Do NCT STICK: In baking puddings, mac- 
aroni or starchy foods grease the pan with cold 
grease, and then flour it before i:>utting in the 
contents and it will come out nicely wdien baked. 
And pan is so much easier cleaned. 

An equal amount of black pepper and 
camphor gum are excellant to drive away moths- 

Painted Articlks: Never use soap when 
washing them; use clear soft water with a little 
ammonia. 

Windows: Wash them with coal-oil and 
water, let partly dry and polish with soft paper. 

S11.VER WARK: Do not wash any kind cf 
plated ware with soapy water; use soft hot water 
and a good polish or put them in sour milk for 
3 hours then rinse well. 

Wall Paper: If you have grease spots on 
the wall paper place over them a piece of blott' 
ing paper and press with a hot sad iron. 



51 



p> GENHRAI, HINTS <; 

CoFFKK: Is improved, if yon have no cream, 
by adding scalding milk. 

Anothkr way: Scald milk aud let it part- 
ly cool, beat an egg and pour milk into it, beat- 
ing well; use the same as cream. 

Kx PLCS IONS: A great many are caused by 
lighting the lamps when little oil is in them; the 
enij^ty space collects gas which quickly explodes. 

Matting: Wash with salt water (i cup 
salt to I gallon water) and dry as soon as possible. 

( A fine CKMKNT: Mix equal parts in weight 
of ashes aud salt and make a paste of them by 
adding water; apply to cracks and broken places 
in stoves whi'e a good fire is on. 

Glass ware: Will glisten if some lemon 
rinds are added to the rinse water. 

Flies: They will not bother picture frames 
if you boil an onion in a pint of water and apply 
the soLution with a brush. 



5^ 



> GENERAL HINTS. < 

Pkcans: May be shelled more easily if 
boiling water is poured over them and let stand 
}i hour, then crack carefully. 

Burnt food: Such as rice, potatoes, vege- 
tables etc. may be ' saved if not to badly burned 
it' the kettle is instantly placed in a pan of cold 
or ice water taking off the lid, when partly cool 
take up being careful not to get too close to the 
charred bottom. 

Corn meal mush: Left over may be sliced 
and dipped in beaten egg with pepper and salt 
then breaded with slightly toasted bread crumbs 
and fried in hot fat to a golden brown. 

SwKKT POTATOES: When put to bake 
should be greased; they bake quicker and the 
skins are softer. 



5^ 



INDEX. 

PAGK 

Bread. ^ 4 

Cakes and Cookies. 9 

^gs and Custards. 11 

Fried Cakes and Fritters. 14 

Fruit and Vegetables. 18 

Game and Fish. 25 

General Hints. 50 

Hints on Sandwiches. 27 

Hints on Soda. 29 

Ice Cream and Ices. 30 

Icings. 33 

Jellies, Jams and Preserves. 35 , 

Meats and Fowls. 3^ 

Omelets. 4^ 

Pastry, Pies and Puddings. 42 

Pickles, Salads and Sauces. 4^ 



54 



LIBRARY OF CONGRESS 





014 421 648 9 



