Conservation Menus 
and Recipes 




Compiled by 

MARIE M. BARTLETT 



Conservation Menus 
and Recipes 




Compiled by 

MARIE M. BARTLETT 







COPYRIGHT, 1918, 

by 

MARIE M. BARTLETT. 



NQV 29 1918 



'CI.A508324 



/ 

yy 



0* 



sw J 



FOREWORD. 



This little book of menus and recipes grew out of the desire 
of the Riley Circle to aid in the food conservation movement 
during the war. We wished, to follow scrupulously every re- 
quest of the Food Administration. At the same time we 
wished to keep our families well nourished and to be able 
to offer to them and to our friends food, so carefully prepared 
and so daintily served, as to bring refreshment to mind and 
body, and to keep alive the amenities of life during this 
period of stress and strain. 

Believing that the richly varied products of our country 
offer substitutes not needed by our Allies, which skillful 
handling could prepare for our own tables, thus releasing the 
more staple products for the war needs, we asked Mrs. Charles 
Lincoln Bartlett to use her well-known skill to outline for 
us menus which would accomplish this end. 

Mrs. Bartlett has here gathered together recipes which she 
has culled from the past and the present, from at home and 
abroad, and included many of her own creation. The distinct 
contribution which we feel she has made, however, aside from 
the substitution of other ingredients for those which it is nec- 
essary to conserve, is the combination of these recipes into 
menus of balanced food value and delightful attractiveness. 

Wishing to allow all to share in this opportunity, we have 
persuaded Mrs. Bartlett to put these menus into published 
form and on public sale. 

The Riley Circle hereby thanks Mrs. Bartlett for her good 

offices and generous gift, for it feels that to have made life 

better and pleasanter in many homes during this period of 

trial is indeed to have served. 

ALICE D. RILEY, 

For The Riley Circle. 
Evanston, 111., October 4th, 1918. • 






^■'lllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllillllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllltllllllMHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUIIIIIIIIII!^ 

| ALL MEASUREMENTS IN RECIPES ARE LEVEL f 
UNLESS OTHERWISE STATED. THE RECIPES 1 
ARE PLANNED FOR A FAMILY OF FIVE 

nillllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllMlllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllltlllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll Illllin 



CONSERVATION MENUS 
AND RECIPES 



A MEATLESS DAY. 



Breakfast — 

Grape Fruit, Codfish Balls with Egg Sauce, Graham Muf 
fins, Coffee. 

Luncheon — 

Scalloped Okra and Tomatoes, Pickled Peaches, warmed- 
over Muffins, Tea, Junket in sherbet glasses. 

Scalloped Okra and Tomatoes — 

V2 can of tomatoes in layers with 1 can of okra and 2 thinly- 
sliced onions, 1 scant teaspoon of salt, a little paprika, 1 tablespoon 
of dripping (this dripping may be lamb or mutton) to be divided 
between the layers. The last layer to be of dry rolled bread crumbs. 
Bake 30 minutes and serve hot. 

Dinner — 

Boiled Salmon with Peanut Sauce, Baker Special Baked 
Potatoes, Lettuce Hearts, French Dressing, Stewed Rhubarb 
in tall service glasses with Whipped Cream, and Cottage Cheese 
sweetened with 1^ tablespoons of Honey. 

Peanut Sauce for Salmon — 

Make a cream sauce with l 1 /* tablespoons of margarine or bacon 
drippings; iy 2 tablespoons of flour blended in saucepan till bubbling 
for 5 minutes. Stir all the time and add l 1 /* cups of milk, 1 teaspoon 
of salt, 1 saltspoon of paprika and lastly 1/3 cup of chopped salted 
peanuts. 

Baker Special Baked Potatoes — 

To 6 baked potatoes while hot cut off top or if potatoes are large 
cut in halves lengthwise, scoop out the hot contents and add 3% 
tablespoons of grated cheese (American), iy 2 tablespoons of mar- 
garine, 1 teaspoon of salt, the juice of M; onion, saltspoon of pepper. 
Beat all together and put back into potato skins and then into oven 
for 3 minutes. Serve hot. 



A MEATLESS DAY. 



Breakfast — 

Bartlett Pears, Broiled Tomatoes with finely minced Ham, 
Oatmeal Bread toasted, Coffee. 

Broiled Tomatoes with Minced Ham — 

Cut large ripe tomatoes in half (across) without peeling. Put in 
shallow pan, cut side up. Pile on each half 1 heaping teaspoon of 
finely minced ham, a good dot of butter or margarine, a little salt 
and pepper. Broil 8 to 10 minutes. Serve hot. 

Luncheon — 

Codfish Balls, French Cabbage, Cocoa, Green Apple Sauce. 

French Cabbage — 

Boil a small white cabbage 15 minutes, changing the water once 
from boiling teakettle; drain and set aside to get cold. Chop fine, 
add 2 beaten eggs, 1 tablespoon butter or margarine, a little pepper, 

1 teaspoon of salt, 3 tablespoons of good cream. Stir all together 
and bake in well greased pudding dish until brown. Serve hot. 

Dinner — 

Tomato Bisque, Baked Stuffed Whitefish, Fried Summer 
Squash, Baked Potatoes, Raspberry Custards, Barley Brittles. 

Baked Stuffed White Fish: 

Have bones taken out of fish at market, but do not have it split 
all the way. Stuff with bread crumbs and mashed potatoes, */ 2 cup 
of each, 1 tablespoon margarine, \/-> teaspoon salt, 1 teaspoon of 
chopped parsley, 1 teaspoon chopped celery. Pin cut edges with 
wooden toothpicks. Bake a 2 1 /i>-lb. fish 45 minutes, basting fre- 
quently with 2 tablespoons of boiling water, 1 tablespoon bacon 
dripping. 

Fried Summer Squash — 

Cut small crook neck squashes into %-inch pieces across; take out 
seeds; boil 10 minutes; drain; dredge a little flour over each piece; 
fry brown in butter or bacon dripping. Serve hot. 

Raspberry Custard — 

Add to 1 cup of crushed raspberries (raspberry jam will do and 
will not require extra sugar) y 2 tablespoon of sugar and let stand 
V2 hour. Make a boiled custard by mixing yolks of 2 eggs, 

2 cups of milk, 2 level tablespoons of sugar, 1 level tablespoon of 
corn starch. Cook all slowly in double boiler till it boils. Pour over 
raspberries in glass dish. Set away to cool. Just before serving 
pile on the stiffly beaten white of 2 eggs sweetened with 1 teaspoon 
of Karo. 

Barley Brittles — 

V-2 cup of margarine, 1 cup of brown or maple sugar, n cup of 
sour cream, 1 teaspoon of salt, y 2 teaspoon of soda, V-i teaspoon of 
mixed spices (ground), about 2% cups barley flour. Cream sugar 
and margarine; add sour milk and 1 cup of barley flour mixed with 
the salt, soda and spices. Add enough flour to make dough stiff 
enough to roll very thin. Cut in squares or diamonds; dust with 
sugar and nutmeg and bake in brisk oven. 



A WHEATLESS DAY. 



Breakfast — 

Stewed peeled Apricots (fresh or dried), Egg Nests on Toast, 

Barley and Rice Baking Powder Biscuits. 

Egg Nests on Toast — 

Separate whites from yolks of eggs (one for - each portion), keep- 
ing yolks whole. Beat whites with % teaspoon of salt to a stiff 
froth; heap this froth on small slices of buttered toast and add 1 
teaspoon of chopped ham, veal, chicken or bacon. Make a depres- 
sion in center of egg whites; drop in one yolk, place in moderate 
oven for 3 minutes. 

Barley and Rice Baking Powder Biscuits — 

1 cup barley flour, 1 cup rice flour, 4 tablespoons baking powder, 
y~2 teaspoon salt, % cup milk, 3 tablespoons drippings and 1 table- 
spoon seeded raisins. Mix dry ingredients; rub in fat, add milk 
and the raisins that have been dredged with rice flour; drop on 
greased pans and bake in quick oven. 

Luncheon — 

Creamed Fish, Scalloped Tomatoes, Corn Bread, Fig and 
Banana Jelly with Whipped Cream. 

Creamed Fish — 

Season any fish that is to be creamed with a few drops of lemon 
juice while hot. Make a cream sauce and add to it for 5 or 6 poi - 
tions a tablespoon of onion juice. 

Dinner — 

Cream of Tomato Soup, T-bone Steak, Potatoes mashed and 
browned in oven, Cauliflower with Cream Sauce, Barley and 
Rice Biscuits (split in halves and toasted), Prune Whip fla- 
vored with a tablespoon of Sherry and a little Nutmeg. 






A WHEATLESS DAY. 



Breakfast — 

Baked Apples sweetened with Maple Sugar and little dabs 
of Margarine, Puffed Rice with Sliced Bananas, Corn Muffins, 
Coffee. 

Corn Muffins — 

1 cup corn meal, 1 tablespoon sugar or Karo, y<* cup rice flour, 
1 tablespoon fat, 1 cup milk, 1 egg, 1 teaspoon salt, 3 teaspoons 
baking powder. Mix dry ingredients and work in fat. Beat egg 
and add milk. Combine mixtures and bake in moderate oven in 
greased muffin tins 20 to 25 minutes. 

Luncheon — 

Cheese and Eggs, Rye Bread, Water Cress, Tea, Canned 
Cherries. 

Cheese and Eggs — 

Break y± pound of cheese into small bits and pound to a paste 
with 2 tablespoons of butter or margarine, the yolks of 2 eggs, 
1 teaspoon mustard, a little cayenne, y> teaspoon (level) salt. 
Toast 6 slices of bread and spread with mixture. Put into oven for 
5 minutes. 



Dinner — 

Cream of Corn Soup, Leg of Lamb roasted with Tomatoes, 
Brown Gravy, Boiled Onions, Mashed Potatoes, Chocolate Jello 
made with coffee. 

Leg of Lamb with Tomatoes — 

When lamb is half roasted, still hot, pour % can or 3 tomatoes 
peeled and cut in half over the meat. Baste frequently while finish- 
ing the roasting. Make brown gravy. The lamb and gravy will be 
improved in flavor by the tomatoes. 

Chocolate Jello with Coffee — 

To 1 package of Chocolate .lello add 1 cup each of boiling water 
and coffee (coffee left from breakfast will do). 



Breakfast — 

Baked Bananas, Fried Oatmeal Porridge, Maple Syrup, Cof- 
fee, Toast. 

Baked Bananas — 

Peel and scrape 6 bananas. Lay whole in shallow baking dish 
and squeeze Vj lemon over them. Dot with margarine. y± teaspoon 
of Karo to each banana. Pour 1 tablespoon of water in pan and 
bake 10 minutes till transparent. Serve hot with cream. 

Fried Oatmeal Porridge — 

While oatmeal is hot from first day's service add to l 1 /^ cups of 
oatmeal 2 tablespoons of chopped English walnut meats and pack 
it into a well greased baking powder tin. When cold, turn out and 
cut % inch thick, dip in egg and fry golden brown. Serve hot with 
maple syrup. 

Luncheon — 

Cheese and Baked Eggs, Celery and Apple Salad, Thin 
Corn Bread, Cocoa, Molasses Peppermints or Peanut Taffy. 

Cheese and Baked Eggs — 

6 hard boiled eggs peeled, cut in half into a shallow bake dish. 
Pour over the following sauce: 2 tablespoons margarine, 1 table 
spoon flour melted together, add 1 cup of hot milk, stir and boil 
well 10 minutes. Add saltspoon of salt. Remove from fire and 
put in at once 1 cup of grated American cheese. Stir and while hot 
pour over peeled eggs and put into oven for 5 minutes. Serve at 
once. 

Dinner — 

Rich Vegetable Soup, Lamb Pie with crust of Mashed Pota- 
toes, Corn Fritters, Plum Jam, Fruit Cocktails. 

Rich Vegetable Soup — 

To 1 quart of stock made by cooking the bones from roast lamb, 
mutton or veal add and cook 1 cup each of tomato, celery, tur- 
nips, carrots, onions (cabbage, lima or navy beans or peas may 
also be added). All vegetables should be cut very fine. Onions and 
cabbage should be chopped fine. 

Corn Fritters — 

To 1 cup of corn (canned or cold boiled) add 1 saltspoon salt, 1 
cup rich milk, 1% teaspoons flour, y 2 teaspoon baking powder, 1 egg 
beaten light. Drop by tablespoon into hot frying pan that has 
1 tablespoon of drippings in it. Turn with pancake turner so as to 
brown both sides. Serve hot, with or without maple syrup. 

Sauce for Fruit Cocktails — 

1 tablespoon honey, 1 tablespoon lemon juice, 1 tablespoon pine- 
apple juice. Put on each portion 1 marshmallow cut in quarters. 
Any fruit may be used — canned or fresh, or a mixture of each. 






A MEATLESS DAY. 



Breakfast — 

Stewed Prunes with Oranges, Corn Flakes and Cream, Oat- 
meal Bread toasted, Chocolate. 

Stewed Prunes and Oranges — 

To 1 lb. of prunes soaked over night add in the morning the juice 
and pulp of 2 oranges and a little grated rind. Stew slowly for 1 
hour. Serve cold. 



Luncheon — 

Navy Bean Soup, Toasted Bread Fingers, Baked Apples and 
Gingerbread. 

Navy Bean Soup — 

Soak 1% cups of navy beans over night. In morning fry 2 large 
or 3 small peeled and sliced onions in drippings until brown, then 
add to the navy beans in a kettle with 2 quarts of water, 1 teaspoon 
of salt, 1 saltspoon of sweet marjoram, a ham bone (or two cups 
of water the ham was boiled in may be used instead of all fresh 
water). Cook all 3 hours slowly. Mash half of beans through col- 
ander or ricer and return to soup. Heat and serve with thin slice 
of lemon in each portion. The soup may be slightly thickened with 

1 tablespoon flour boiled in the soup. 

Dinner — 

Cream of Asparagus Soup, Spanish Omelette, Potatoes 
Creamed with Chopped Parsley added, Hearts of Lettuce with 
Thousand Island Dressing, Nuts and Raisins. 

Filling for Spanish Omelette — 

Stew together in shallow frying pan, 1 tablespoon of drippings, 

2 tablespoons of canned tomatoes, 1 chopped onion, 1 tablespoon of 
chopped green pepper, 1 teaspoon of celery and parsley with salt- 
spoon of salt and 1 dash of pepper. Make an omelette, when ready 
to take up pour in the stewed hot filling; fold and turn on to hot 
platter. 

Thousand Island Salad Dressing: 

Soak in 2 teaspoons of taragon vinegar, 1 clove of garlic for 10 
minutes; take out the garlic and add to the vinegar 3 tablespoons 
of tomato catsup, 3 tablespoons of mayonnaise sauce. Stir quickly 
and use at once. 



A WHEATLESS DAY. 



Breakfast — 

Apples and Oranges, Toast with Eggs and Fish Paste, Corn 
Muffins, Tea or Coffee. 

Breakfast Toast with Egg and Fish Paste — 

Make fish paste of any left over salt fish by removing every bone 
and bit of skin and pounding or mashing to a paste with equal 
amount of butter or margarine. Spread over hot toast and top with 
1 tablespoon of scrambled eggs per portion. 

Good Housekeeping Corn Muffins — 

Scald 1 cup of milk and pour over y 2 cup of cornmeal (yellow). 
Add 1 tablespoon of shortening (margarine or dripping), y 2 teaspoon 
of salt; stir well and let cool slightly; add 2 eggs beaten, ^ cup of 
sugar (or Karo and honey), *4 cup of flour sifted with 2 teaspoons 
of baking powder. Pour into greased muffin pans and bake for 15 
minutes. 



Luncheon — 

Navy Bean Salad, Toasted Swedish Health Bread, Toasted 
Gingerbread spread with Marmalade and Butter. 

Navy Bean Salad — 

To beans saved from bean soup or baked beans add 2 tablespoons 
of chopped olives, 3 tablespoons of cut celery for 5 portions. Serve 
on lettuce with mayonnaise that has mustard in it. 

Dinner — 

Veal Cutlets with Tomato Sauce, Boiled Brown Rice But- 
tered, Stuffed Stalks of Celery, Currant Jelly, Vanilla Ice 
Cream with Chocolate Sauce. 

Celery Stuffed- 
Use the large outside pieces of celery; wash and boil for 15 min- 
utes in salted water; blanch by plunging into ice cold water. When 
chilled drain and stuff with y 2 cup of buttered bread crumbs and 
1 cup of grated cheese, melted in 1 cup of cream sauce. Bake 5 
minutes. Serve hot. 



A MEATLESS DAY. 



Breakfast — 

Baked Bananas, Corn Crisps on Dates with top of the Milk, 
Crumb Muffins, Coffee. 

Crumb Muffins — 

Use any good muffin recipe, substituting % dry rolled crumbs for 
an equal amount of any flour. This makes a light, good muffin. 

Luncheon — 

Creamed Fish, Fried Tomatoes, Tea, Jellied Grapes. 

Creamed Fish — 

Put a heaping tablespoon of margarine or drippings in a pan; let 
it brown slightly. Add 1 tablespoon of flour and blend. Then add 
1 cup of milk; season with 1 level saltspoon of salt, Y> saltspoon 
each of pepper and ginger, a shake of cayenne and a tiny bit of 
ground mace. Cook 2 or 3 minutes, add 1 cup of cold cooked fish in 
pieces the size of lima beans. Cook 10 minutes. 

Dinner — 

Baked Halibut Steaks, Pearl Hominy or Samp. Baked Stuffed 
Squash, Swiss Cream. 

Baked Halibut Steaks — 

Trim off all skins or ragged ends and lay in roasting pan. For 2 
lbs. of fish use 1 cup of rich milk, 1 teaspoon of flour, 1 tablespoon 
of margarine, 1 teaspoon of salt, 1 saltspoon of pepper. Dredge 
steaks with flour; add seasoning, dot with margarine; pour over 
this the milk and bake in quick oven 15 minutes. Garnish with 
parsley. Serve hot with quarters of lemon. 

Baked Stuffed Squash — 

Select a good sized round summer squash; wash and cut out the 
contents and chop this with 1 onion, 1 carrot, % green pepper, % 
saltspoon of salt. Fry in 1 tablespoon of Wesson oil for 10 minutes, 
stirring well. Fill the squash shell with this mixture and bake 
brown about 10 or 12 minutes. 

Swiss Cream — 

Lay ~Yi lb. of macaroons in a glass dish; mix 2 tablespoons of 
cornstarch with 3 tablespoons of milk. Put i/. pint each of milk and 
cream over fire. When ready to boil, stir in the cornstarch and cook 
slowly 3 minutes; add 1 teaspoon of sugar and when melted remove 
from fire, flavor with 1 teaspoon of vanilla. Pour over macaroons 
and when cold dot with bits of currant or grape jelly. 

10 



Breakfast — 

Baked Apples stuffed with Quince and Honey, Toasted 
Triscots, Raisins and Cream, Rye Muffins, Coffee. 

Luncheon — 

Salsify Salad, Cheese Dreams, Grapejuice and Cocoanut 
Tapioca. 

Salsify Salad — 

Cut 2 cups of cold boiled salsify into small pieces. Marinate for 

1 hour with French dressing. Eub salad bowl with cut clove of 
garlic, arrange bed of cress in salad bowl, cover with 2 tablespoons 
of cream dressing, then the salsify and 3 tablespoons of cream 
dressing — made as following: 2 egg yolks hard boiled, 2/3 teaspoon 
of salt, a dash of cayenne, 2/3 teaspoon mustard, iy 2 tablespoons of 
vinegar, 1 cup of thick cream. Mash yolks, add salt, vinegar and 
mustard; beat cream till stiff, add this beaten cream a little at a 
time to the egg mixture; when stiff add cayenne. 

Dinner — 

Cream of Mushroom Soup, Pinto Bean Loaf, Tomato Sauce, 
Parsnip Balls, Parisian Sweet Potatoes, Apple and Quince 
Marmalade, Pumpkin Pie, Cheese. 

Pinto Bean Loaf — 

Wash 1 cup of pinto beans thoroughly in hot water; rinse in cold; 
cover with clear cold water and soak over night; cook gently 50 
minutes in the water they were soaked in; then add 1 tablespoon of 
molasses, 1 chopped onion, y 2 chopped green pepper, y 2 cup of 
chopped celery, y 2 cup of chopped salt pork, y 2 cup of bread crumbs, 

2 eggs beaten, y> teaspoon of salt and 1 saltspoon of sweet marjoram. 
Pack into greased bake dish and bake 2 hours. Turn out and cover 
with 6 or 8 broiled mushrooms. Pour around loaf \y 2 cups of tomato 
sauce. 

Parsnip Cakes or Balls — 

Mash 1 pint of boiled parsnips; add 2 tablespoons of margarine, 
y 2 teaspoon of salt, a little pepper, 2 tablespoons of cream, 1 tea- 
spoon of onion juice; mix together and boil till it bubbles for 2 min- 
utes; pour out and before it cools add 1 well beaten egg. When 
cold make into balls the size of an egg, dip into egg and bread 
crumbs and fry brown in drippings. 

Quince and Apple Marmalade — 

After filling the apples with 2 peeled, cored and cut up quinces 
and iy 2 tablespoons of honey for baking to serve at breakfast, use 
the cores removed from 6 apples with the cores and peels of the 
quince and 1 entire apple washed and cut up (core and all) with 
14 cup of water. Boil till soft; strain and return to kettle the 
juice with 15 seeded raisins; boil 10 minutes and add 1 heaping 
tablespoon of sugar; boil again 3 minutes and turn into jelly glass. 

11 



Breakfast — 

Baked Apple sweetened with equal parts of Honey and 
Karo, Cream of Rice Griddle Cakes, Coffee or Chocolate. 

Luncheon — 

Macaroni Rarebit, Swiss Chard, Peach Custard. 

Macaroni Rarebit — 

Into a frying pan, put 1 heaping teaspoon of butter or bacon drip- 
pings; when hot add 1 cup of cold boiled macaroni cut fine, 1 scant 
cup of grated cheese and 2 well beaten eggs; dust with pepper and 
salt; cook until set. Serve hot on toast. 

Peach Custard — 

Cover bottom of pudding dish with peeled and halved peaches, 
cavities up; into each put a little sugar and Karo syrup (about 2 
tablespoons for 6 peaches). Make a cornstarch custard, boiling till 
like thick cream; pour over peaches; when cool spread over all a 
meringue made of whites of 2 eggs, and 1 teaspoon of sugar beaten 
stiff. Put into oven 2 minutes to set. Serve hot. 



Dinner — 

Cream of Celery Soup, Sweetbreads with Brown Onion 
Gravy, Peas, Carrots, Baked Sweet Potatotes, Epicure's Apple 
Sauce. 

Sweetbreads with Brown Onion Gravy — 

Soak 1*4 lbs. of sweetbreads 1 hour in cold water, then pick off 
all the thin skin covering them. Cover with fresh cold water and 
bring to boiling point. Drain and again cover with cold water and 
bring to boil. Drain and let cold water run on them till they are 
cold. Squeeze over them juice of a lemon. For the gravy, peel and 
boil 6 small or 4 large onions in just enough water to cover, when 
tender chop and fry brown in the fat from 3 slices of bacon. Then 
fry brown the sweetbreads separated into pieces the size of an egg; 
take out onto platter; keep hot while thickening gravy with browned 
flour. Add 1 teaspoon of salt; pour over the sweetbreads in center 
of platter and decorate edge with carrots, peas and pickled beets. 
Serve hot. 

Epicure's Apple Sauce — 

Core and quarter, but do not peel, 8 or 9 tart apples. Stew slowly 
with 1 tablespoon of water for 1 hour. Put through ricer or col- 
ander; return to fire and add 1 tablespoon of sugar, 2 tablespoons of 
honey, and boil up for 2 minutes. Remove from fire; add 2 table- 
spoons of maraschino cherries cut in halves, 2 tablespoons of 
blanched almonds cut in two lengthwise. Serve cold as a dessert, 
or hot with roast duck or roast pork. 

12 



A MEATLESS DAY. 



Breakfast — 

Corn Flakes with Sliced Bananas and Cream, Combination 
Muffius, Cholocate. 

Combination Muffins — 

1 cup milk, 1 tablespoon of fat, 2 tablespoons of syrup, 2 eggs, 
4 teaspoons of baking powder, 1 teaspoon of salt, iy 2 cups of corn 
flour, y 2 cups of buckwheat flour put through coarse sieve to mix. 
Add milk to melted fat, syrup and slightly beaten eggs; then add 
sifted baking powder, flour and salt. Combine the two mixtures, 
stirring not beating. Bake in greased pans in hot oven 20 to 30 
minutes. 



Luncheon — 

Baked Green Peppers, Nests of Lettuce with Cream Cheese 
Eggs, Boiled Dressing, Tea. Stewed Rhubarb and Straw- 
berries. 

Stewed Rhubarb and Strawberries — 

Stew till tender 1 lb. of rhubarb, then add 1 cup of strawberries 
and 2 tablespoons of sugar. Cook 5 minutes longer. Serve cold. 



Dinner — 

Vegetable Chowder, Fried Perch, Sauce Tartar, Samp or 
Coarse Hominy, Buttered Beets, Cottage Cheese with Dates 
and Whipped Cream. 

Vegetable Chowder — 

Chop 1 large onion, 1 cup of chopped carrots, % cup of white tur- 
nips, 1 stalk of celery, 2 teaspoons of salt, V 2 green pepper chopped, 
% lb. of salt pork cut small, 1% cups of potatoes cut in cubes, 1 
quart of boiling water, y± cup crumbed dry bread and 1 teaspoon 
chopped parsley. Fry pork and onions 5 minutes, add vegetables 
and water; cook 20 minutes, then add 3 cups of hot milk with the 
seasonings and bread crumbs. Boil 4 or 5 minutes and serve. 

Tartar Sauce — 

To 4 tablespoons of mayonnaise, add 1 small pickle, 3 olives 
chopped together and juice of small onion. 

Cottage Cheese with Dates — 

Take 1 cup of stoned and steamed dates, cut in halves and add 
to 2% cups of cottage cheese. Toss with a fork. Pile in tall glasses 
with whipped cream sweetened with 2 teaspoons sugar. 

13 



A WHEATLESS DAY. 



Breakfast — 

Bananas with Oranges, Poached Eggs on Toast, Barley and 
Rice Muffins, Coffee or Tea. 

Bananas with Oranges — 

Prepare and chill night before, 4 bananas sliced 1 inch thick. 
Sprinkle 1 tablespoon of sugar and add juice and pulp of 2 oranges. 



Luncheon — 

Baked Codfish, Water Cress and Canned Cherries with 
French Dressing, Chocolate with a Marshmallow in it, Crisped 
Oatmeal Crackers. 

Baked Codfish — 

Take 1% lbs. of fresh codfish in thick boneless slices, put into 
baking dish, dot with 1 tablespoon of butter or substitute, % cup of 
hot water, 1 tablespoon of each chopped onion and parsley, 1 salt- 
spoon of salt. Bake half hour, basting three or four times. Serve 
on hot platter with gravy made in pan with drippings left from cook- 
ing fish. 



Dinner — 

Roast Beef, Horseradish Sauce, Special Baked Potatoes, 
Fried Egg Plant, Pickles, Buckwheat Bread. Currant Jelly- 
Fluff. 

Currant Jelly Fluff- 
Beat the whites of 5 eggs with 3 tablespoons of currant jelly to a 
stiff froth. Serve with 1 tablespoon of cottage cheese beaten with 
1 tablespoon cream and 1 tablespoon of honey. Pile in sherbert 
glasses. 

Buckwheat Bread — 

Set sponge with 2 cups of graham flour, 1 cup of water, 2 table- 
spoons of lime water, 1 cup of milk, 1 teaspoon of salt, 2y 2 table- 
spoons of molasses, % yeast cake softened in 2 tablespoons "of cold 
water, 1 tablespoon of dripping. Make sponge at night with- above. 
When this has doubled in amount add 4 1 /. cups of buckwheat flour 
to knead; let rise till again double its bulk, then shape into loaves 
and let rise once more to double its size and bake in a moderate 
oven 50 minutes. Above makes 2 loaves. 

14 



Breakfast — 

Apples, Grape Nuts with Stewed Prunes, Rye Popovers, 
Coffee. 

Rye Popovers — 

Sift together 2/3 cup of rye meal, 1/3 cup of white flour, *4 tea- 
spoon of salt. Add gradually 1 cup of milk while stirring constantly. 
Beat 2 eggs till thick. Add to first mixture with 1 teaspoon of oil 
or melted fat. Beat 2 minutes with egg beater. Fill well greased 
iron gem pans two-thirds full. Bake in hot oven 30 to 35 minutes. 

Luncheon — 

Cream of Celery Soup, Lima Bean Salad, Tea, Sliced Peaches. 

Lima Bean Salad — 

To 1 pint lima beans (dried beans can be soaked 12 hours and 
cooked) add 1 small onion and sprig of parsley, y% teaspoon of salt. 
Boil till tender. When very cold serve on lectuce with boiled or 
mayonnaise dressing. 

Dinner — 

Bartlett Individual steak, Brown Gravy, Mashed Potatoes, 
Celery and Carrots, Date and Pecan Pudding. 

Bartlett Individual Steaks — 

Chop fine % lb. of lean beef, */> lb. of veal, add V-> teaspoon of 
salt, 1 saltspoon of paprika, 1 saltspoon of mixed sweet herbs (sweet 
marjoram and thyme), 1 teaspoon each of chopped parsley and onions. 
Stir in 1 well beaten egg and set aside for 6 or 7 hours. Then form' 
into six cakes and fry in bacon drippings quickly. Serve hot with 
brown gravy. 

Date and Pecan Pudding — 

1 lb. of dates, 1 scant cup of pecan or English walnut meats 
chopped fine. Add 2 well beaten eggs, */> cup of maple syrup and 
1/3 cup of sugar. Spread thinly on greased pie plates or shallow 
pans. Bake very slowly till medium brown. Serve cold with 
whipped cream in individual glasses. 



[5 



Breakfast — 

Chilled Grapes, Omelette with Peas, Fruited Corn Muffins, 
Cocoa or Coffee. 

Fruited Cornflour Muffiins — 

1 cup of fruited cornflour, V- 2 cup of white flour or cornstarch, 2 
eggs, 1 cup of sweet milk, 3 teaspoons of baking powder, M.> teaspoon 
of salt, 1 tablespoon of fat, 1 tablespoon of sugar or Karo. Separate 
eggs; beat yolks, add milk and melted shortening; sift flour, baking 
powder and salt twice; add fruited cornflour beaten thoroughly and 
add beaten whites by folding in. Bake in greased gem pans. Makes 
12 or 15 according to size of pans. 

Luncheon — 

Cheese and Tomato Rarebit, Baked Apples, Barley Brittles. 

Cheese and Tomato Rarebit — 

1 tablespoon of butter or margarine in chafing dish, 1 cup of 
thick tomato pulp, speck of soda, 1 cup of thin cream or rich milk, 

1 teaspoon of salt, 2 cups of cheese cut small or chopped. Stir con- 
stantly till cheese melts, then add 3 well beaten eggs and 1 saltspoon 
of paprika. Cook till eggs set. Serve on buttered toast. 

Dinner with Guests — 

Mushroom Cream Soup, Collops of Filet of Beef, Creole 
Sauce, Parisian Sweet Potatoes, Filled Peppers, Compote of 
Pears, Cocoanut Macaroons. 

Broiled Collops of Beef Tenderloin, Creole Sauce — 

Prepare Creole sauce with 2 tablespoons of margarine (or mutton 
drippings will do nicely), heat and brown in frying pan, then add 

2 tablespoons of flour and continue to brown, stirring constantly; 
add 1 cup of meat stock (or a meat cube in cup of boiling water will 
do), 1 teaspoon of lemon juice, 1 teaspoon of salt, 1 green pepper 
chopped with 1 small onion, y 2 cup of canned tomatoes and 6 olives 
stoned and cut in small pieces. Boil altogether 10 minutes, add 
2 tablespoons sherry wine and serve immediately. 

Parisian Sweet Potatoes — 

To 3 cups of rieed sweet potatoes add 3 tablespoons of butter or 
margarine, a slight grating of orange peel and hot cream enough to 
soften. Pile on a serving dish in a mound. Whip % cup of cream 
stiff, add % cup of grated cheese, season with a level teaspoon of 
salt and M> saltspoon of pepper. Spread over the mound of sweet 
potatoes and bake until cheese melts and is delicately browned. 

Pear Compote — 

Peel and cut in halves 10 large pears, scoop out the cores, pack 
closely into saucepan and pour over them 1 cup of water, i/4 cup of 
sugar, VL' c u P of honey, 5 whole cloves, 1 stick of cinnamon and the 
juice of half a lemon. Cover closely and stew gently till tender. 
Take pears out carefully from syrup and put into glass service dish. 
Boil down the syrup till somewhat thick and pour over the pears. 
Serve cold. 

16 



A WHEATLESS DAY. 



Breakfast — 

Fruit Cup, Boiled Eggs, Rye Bread Toast, Coffee. 
Fruit Cup — 

Separate sections of 2 peeled oranges and take 1 sliced banana, 

1 peeled, cored and sliced pear, 10 dates steamed and cut in half, 

1 grapefruit cut in half and flesh taken out with teaspoon. Mix all 
together and serve in glass dishes. 

Luncheon — 

Cream of Onion Soup, Lettuce with Tasty Dressing, Oatmeal 
Muffins, Rhubarb Marmalade, Tea. 

Tasty Dressing for Lettuce — 

6 tablespoons of cottage cheese, 1 teaspoon of salt, 3 tablespoons 
of lemon juice, 1 clove of garlic, % teaspoon of paprika, % green 
pepper chopped, yolks of 2 hard boiled eggs, Y- 2 cup rich buttermilk. 
Eub bowl with cut clove of garlic, add green pepper and mashed 
egg yolks. Mix all and beat well. Pour over lettuce. 

Dinner — 

Baked Oranges with Veal, Green Beans Buttered, Baked 
Sweet Potatoes, Baked Bananas, Raisin Sauce. 

Baked Oranges with Veal — 

1 veal steak, 2 tablespoons of cornflour, 1 tablespoon of margarine, 
1 bay leaf, 2 large oranges, 1*4 cups of hat water, 1 teaspoon of salt, 
!/4 teaspoon of pepper, 1 teaspoon of parsley. Cut veal steak 1 inch 
thick (l 1 /; lbs.), dip in 1 tablespoon of cornflour and place in greased 
casserole, dot with margarine, sprinkled with salt and pepper and 
add bay leaf. Peel and quarter the oranges and bake till golden 
brown. Serve on hot platter, alternate sprigs of parsley and quarters 
of oranges. Make gravy of left over cornflour and juice in casserole 
and pour over the rest. 

Bananas with Raisin Sauce — 

4 large bananas, iy± tablespoons of margarine, l 1 /^ tablespoons of 
honey, 2 1 /. tablespoons of seedless raisins, l 1 /^ tablespoons of 
shredded cocoanut, l 1 /! teaspoons of lemon juice, 1 cup of hot water, 
% teaspoon salt, \y± tablespoons of cornstarch. Cut 4 large bananas 
in four parts lengthwise. Place in pan with melted margarine. 
Place raisins in hot water; let simmer till soft; add honey and lemon 
juice; thicken with cornstarch mixed with a little water; when 
creamy pour over bananas. Bake in slow oven % hour. Sprinkle 
cocoanut over and serve. 

17 



A WHEATLESS DAY. 



Breakfast — 

Iced Melon, Crisped Grape Nuts with Cream, Corn Muffins, 
Coffee. 

Luncheon — 

Chicken Custards, French Beets, Sliced Peaches, Iced Cocoa. 

Chicken Custards — 

Scald together 1 cup of strong chicken stock and 1 cup of cream. 
Pour it over the beaten yolks of 3 eggs, stirring well, and cook in 
double boiler till slightly thick and add % teaspoon of salt; pour 
into greased custard cups and put into oven for 1 minute with 
dusting of bread crumbs, if desired hot, or set away to cool in cus- 
tard cups without bread crumbs. 

French Beets — 

Select small beets of even size, wash and bake till tender, then 
peel and slice while hot. Serve with dots of butter and dusting of 
salt and pepper. 

Dinner — 

Tomato and Corn Chowder, Mrs. MacCauley's Veal Loaf, 
Cauliflower an Gratia, Potatoes Maitre d 'Hotel, Iced Water- 
melon and Mint. 

Tomatoes and Corn Chowder — 

Peel and slice 2 potatoes, parboiling in water to cover. While 
they boil chop together 2 large tomatoes and 1 small onion; mix 
with the corn cut from 2 large ears. Add the drained potatoes and 
2 quarts of cold water. Cook 10 minutes and thicken with 1 level 
tablespoon of butter or dripping, 1 rounded tablespoon of barley flour, 
% saltspoon of salt and 1 teaspoon of chopped parsley. 

Mrs. MacCauley's Veal Loaf — 

Chop together iy 2 lbs. of veal, % lb. of fresh pork, % lb. of salt 
pork, 1 large onion, % teaspoon of salt, 1% cups cooked macaroni 
or rice. Put into greased dish, first a layer of meat, second a layer 
of macaroni or rice, then meat again. Steam 3 hours or bake 2% 
hours. Serve with tomato sauce while hot. Is good cold, too. 



IS 



Breakfast 

Rhubarb and Raisins, Sliced Bacon cooked in shallow pan in 
oven, Barley Baking Powder Biscuits, Cocoa. 

Barley Baking Powder Biscuits — 

2 cups of barley flour, 4 teaspoons of baking powder, y 2 teaspoon 
of salt, % cup of milk, 3 tablespoons of drippings, 10 dates steamed 
and stoned, cut in quarters. Mix dry ingredients; rub in the short- 
ening; add milk and dates that have been dredged with flour; drop 
on greased pan and bake in quick oven. 

Luncheon — 

Ham Omelette, Swiss Chard, Tea, Cantaloupe. 

Dinner — 

Breaded Shoulder Lamb Chops, Mint Jelly, Stuffed Baked 
Tomatoes, Mashed Potatoes, Strawberry Ice Cream. 

Shoulder of Lamb Chops — 

Have 5 chops cut % inch thick; put into flat shallow pan ,and 
pour over to marinate them the juice of 1 lemon, 1 tablespoon of 
Wesson oil, 2 /2 teaspoon salt, y* saltspoon of pepper and 1 teaspoon 
of onion juice. Let stand for 1 hour, then turn chops and let stand 
for another hour. Sprinkle thick with fine bread crumbs. Broil in 
shallow pan under gas flame, turning the chops. Cook for 10 min- 
utes. 

Fresh Mint Jelly — 

Wash 1 cup of mint. Put into saucepan with 1 pint of water, 1 
teaspoon of cider vinegar and IV* tablespoons of Karo. Let come 
to a boil and strain on to 1 package of lemon jello. Stir and pour 
into small jelly molds with a thin slice of cucumber in each. Chill 
and turn out to serve. 



19 



A WHEAT CONSERVATION DAY. 



Breakfast — 

Broiled Tomatoes, Soft Boiled Eggs, Bread Crumb Muffins, 
Coffee. 

Breakfast Broiled Tomatoes — 

Wash and halve 5 tomatoes and place in shallow pan. Dot with 
butter; sprinkle with iy 2 tablespoons of brown sugar, or half sugar 
and half honey. Broil 5 minutes. Serve hot. 



Luncheon — 

Cheese Timbals, Creamed Potatoes sprinkled with Chopped 
Parsley, Cocoa, Corn Flake Cookies. 

Cheese Timbals — 

2 cups of milk, y, teaspoon of salt, 2 eggs, 1 teaspoon of corn- 
starch, 5 teaspoons of grated American cheese. Beat eggs; add milk 
and cornstarch; pour over cheese, which has been put into well 
greased ramakins. Set in a pan of boiling water; cover and bake 
15 minutes till set. Turn out and serve hot. 



Dinner — 

Cream of Corn Soup, Steak in casserole, Puffed Potatoes, 
Lettuce and Peanut Salad, French Dressing, Tapioca Custard 
with Pineapple cut into it while custard is hot. 

Steak in Casserole — 

lVo lbs. of chuck or round steak, 2-inch pieces. To % cup of bar- 
ley flour, add M> teaspoon of salt, a little paprika and roll each 2-inch 
piece of steak in this seasoned flour. Place in casserole in layers, 
putting over each layer of beef a sprinkling of chopped onion, 1 
small piece of mace and a bit of bay leaf, using y 2 of bay leaf and 
6 cloves in all. Pour over this l 1 /^ cups of boiling water; cover 
tightly and simmer for 2% hours. 



30 



Ereakfast — 

Rhubarb with Figs, Shirred Eggs, Toasted Fingers of Bread, 
Coffee or Tea. 

Rhubarb and Figs — 

y 2 lb. of pulled figs washed and cooked in boiling water to just 
cover, till water is nearly absorbed. Add 1 lb. of rhubarb cut in 
1-inch lengths. Put in layers of rhubarb and figs, sprinkle each layer 
with sugar, using 2 level tablespoons in all. Pour 14 cup of boiling 
water over and bake in slow oven till rhubarb is soft. Serve cold. 



Luncheon — 

Creamed Codfish in Mashed Potato Nests, Water Cress and 
Pineapple Salad, Rye Bread, Cocoa, Honey Cakes. 

Honey Cakes — 

^4 cup of butter, .^4 cup of sugar, % cup of honey, y 2 cup of 
barley flour, */> cup of rice flour, 2/3 teaspoon bakirig powder, 1 egg, 
% teaspoon of caraway (if liked) or 1 teaspoon of vanilla extract. 
Mix honey and sugar; add melted butter, eggs slightly beaten and 
the flour that has been twice sifted with the baking powder. Mix 
till smooth; pour into well greased cup cake pans and bake 18 or 20 
minutes. 



Dinner — 

Vegetable Soup, Chartreuse of Veal, Potatoes baked in milk, 
Buttered Young Beets, Green Tomato Pickles, Strawberry Jam 
on Neufchatel Cheese that has had Whipped Cream added. 

Chartreuse of Veal — 

1 cup of cold veal cut in small pieces and seasoned with 1 salt- 
spoon of salt and a little pepper; moisten with 1% tablespoons of 
cream and 1 tablespoon of onion juice; 1 cup of mashed potatoes, 
2 hard cooked eggs. Butter small mold; put in alternate layers 
mashed potatoes, veal and hard cooked eggs sliced. Steam 20 min- 
utes; turn out upside down on hot platter; garnish with parsley; 
serve hot. 

Potatoes Baked in Milk — 

6 potatoes sliced thin. Put into ice water for y 2 hour, then drain; 
put into pudding dish with 1 teaspoon of salt, x / 2 saltspoon of pepper, 
y 2 pint of rich milk and bake in slow oven 1 hour; then dot with 1 
tablespoon of butter and bake 3 minutes. Serve hot. 



21 



A MEATLESS DAY. 



Breakfast — 

Dates, steamed and stoned, served with Oatmeal Porridge in 
individual dishes with Cream or top of Milk, thin slices of Rye 
Bread Toasted, Coffee. 

Luncheon — 

Kice a la Creole, Extra Cold Slaw, Oatmeal Bread and But- 
ter, Canned Cherries, Tea. 

Extra Cold Slaw — 

2/3 cup of cabbage, 2/3 cup of celery, 1 small onion chopped fine, 
% cup English walnut meats, chopped. Add boiled salad dressing. 

Dinner — 

Guinea Fowl in Casserole, Baked White Potatoes, Orange 
and Cucumber in Aspic with Mayonnaise Sauce, Bartlett 
Chocolate Pudding. 

Guinea Fowl in Casserole — 

Have guinea fowl skinned and cut into 6 pieces by butcher; wipe 
with clean damp cloth and put into casserole with 8 small peeled 
onions, 6 or 7 carrots scraped and cut into inch lengths, 2 or 3 
stalks of celery cut in inch lengths, 1 level teaspoon of salt, */> salt- 
spoon of pepper, 1 cup boiling water. Cover and bake 2% hours. 

Orange and Cucumber in Aspic — 

Into 1 pint of lemon jelly when it begins to set put the sections 
of 2 oranges, freed of skin, 1 small cucumber peeled and cut once 
lengthwise, and then into thin slices. Thoroughly chill and turn out 
on to lettuce leaves. 1 teaspoon of mayonnaise to a helping. 

Bartlett Chocolate Pudding — 

Put into pudding dish over flame: 1 cup of dry bread crumbs, 
1 quart of milk, 2 squares of Baker's chocolate, 6 tablespoons of 
honey or 5 x /o tablespoons of sugar. Allow to cook slowly 5 or 8 min- 
utes. Add: 1 teaspoon of butter, the beaten yolks of 3 eggs, the 
white of 1 egg and 1 teaspoon of vanilla. Bake 15 minutes till set. 
When cool spread over this pudding the stiffly beaten "whites of 2 
eggs with 1 teaspoon of sugar added while beating. Put into oven 
for five minutes, to set meringue. Serve cold. (Will serve 8 por- 
tions.) 

22 



A WHEATLESS DAY. 



Breakfast — 

Fresh Pineapple sliced or shredded, French Toast spread 
with Marmalade, Barley and Rice Muffins, Coffee. 

Luncheon — 

Eggs and Asparagus in Ramakins, Green Bean Salad with 
Chopped Chives and French Dressing, Tea and Miss Houston's 
Cocoanut Macaroons. 

Eggs and Asparagus — 

Put tender tops of cold asparagus (fresh is best, but canned will 
do) into well greased ramakins and pour over them for 5 portions 
3 eggs beaten light, y 2 cup of milk, % teaspoon of salt, % teaspoon 
of onion juice. Dot with butter; stand in pan of hot water and 
bake. 10 or 12 minutes to set. Serve hot. 

Miss Houston's Cocoanut Macaroons — 

To 1 can of Borden's Eagle brand condensed milk (no other will 
do) add 9 ounces of dry shredded cocoanut and 2 tablespoons of 
Huyler's cocoa. Stir together very thoroughly; scrape from tea- 
spoon onto flat pans that have been well greased. These drops 
must be far apart because they spread. Bake until golden color. 
Scrape carefully off pan and allow to cool and harden. 



Dinner — 

Boiled Beef Tongue, Beet Greens, Potatoes Finnegan, Young 
Onions and Radishes, Strawberries and Cream, Marguerites. 

Potatoes Finnegan — 

5 peeled potatoes, cut in cubes and boiled with % cup of finely 
cut carrots and 1 cup of milk thickened with 2 level tablespoons of 
each barley flour and bacon drippings. Seasoned with juice of 
1 onion, 1 teaspoon of salt and a little pepper. Serve hot with 
chopped parsley over top. 

Marguerites — 

Saltines (or any crispy plain crackers) spread with whites of 2 
eggs whipped to a stiff froth with 1 tablespoon of sugar and 2 table- 
spoons of chopped peanuts. Put on baking pan and into oven until 
crackers are crisped and meringue set and a golden brown. 

23 



A WHEATLESS DAY. 



Breakfast — 

Rhubarb cooked with Strawberries, Bacon and Eggs, Potato 
Flour Muffins, Coffee. 

Potato Flour Muffins — 

4 eggs, 1 pinch of salt, % cup of potato flour, 1 teaspoon of baking 
powder and 1 teaspoon of melted butter. Beat whites stiff; add salt 
to yolks of eggs and beat till lemon colored and fold the twice sifted 
potato flour and baking powder; add melted butter and bake in mod- 
erate oven for 15 minutes. 

Luncheon — 

Asparagus Omelette, Saratoga Potatoes crisped in oven, 
Brown Bread, Fruit Salad. 

Dinner — 

Broiled Beef Tenderloin Cutlets with Tomatoes and Onions, 
Buttered Young Beets sliced with a little Lemon Juice added, 
Potatoes Soufle, Corn Pone, Honey Cup Custards and Oatmeal 
Cookies. 

Beef Tenderloin Cutlets — 

Have butcher cut beef tenderloin 1 inch thick and bind with slice 
of bacon pinned about them with wooden toothpicks. Place in 
shallow baking dish; cover each with 1 thin slice of onion and one 
slice of tomato cut thicker; dredge with a little salt and pepper and 
dot with margarine. Broil 15 minutes without burning. Serve hot. 

Honey Cup Custards — 

Make usual custard, substituting honey for sugar. 



24 



A WHEATLESS DAY. 



Breakfast — 

Baked Breaded Bacon, Apple Rings, Hominy Muffins, Coffee. 

Luncheon — 

Millard Potato Salad, Toasted Oatmeal Bread, Honey Cus- 
tards, Tea. 

Millard Potato Salad — 

While 4 boiled potatoes are hot, slice them and pour over drip- 
pings from 3 slices of bacon. When cold add 1 cup of celery cut 
fine, 1 large onion chopped with 1 green pepper and 1 cucumber, 
1 cup cold peas, 1/3 cup of salted peanuts and a few pimolas and 1 
cup boiled salad dressing. Serve on lettuce. 

Dinner — 

Baked Sliced Ham, Baked Sliced Potatoes, Spinach — French 
way, thin Corn Bread, half a Grape Fruit with Cocoanut Whip. 

Baked Sliced Ham — 

Upon the sliced ham, cut 1 inch thick, pour sufficient milk to cover. 
Cook 30 minutes in moderate oven. 

Baked Sliced Potatoes — 

Take 5 medium potatoes cut y± inch thick; put in greased bake- 
dish; dot with margarine, a sprinkling of salt and pepper, 1 table- 
spoon of water. Bake till light brown, 15 or 18 minutes; turn into 
vegetable dish and add 4 tablespoons of hot cream. Serve hot. 

Spinach — French Way — 

Wash thoroughly % peck of spinach; boil in enough salted water 
to float; stir once or twice; after 15 minutes drain in colander and 
chop fine. Put in saucepan % tablespoon of margarine, y% table- 
spoon of flour, 2 tablespoons of milk, 1 saltspoon of salt and juice of 
an onion. Boil and add spinach. Serve hot. 

Grapefruit with Cocoanut Whip — 

Whites of 2 eggs beaten stiff with 1 tablespoon of honey or 1 
tablespoon of sugar. Add 3 ounces of grated cocoanut from package. 
Pile on to five halves of grapefruit and serve cold. 



25 



A MEATLESS DAY. 



Breakfast — 

Puffed Rice on steamed and stoned Dates with Cream, Corn 
Pone, Coffee. 

Luncheon — 

Broiled Tomatoes, French Peas, Toasted Corn Pone, Tea, 
Chocolate Dipped Marshmallows on Crisped Crackers. 

French Peas — 

To 1 pint of peas add 1 small peeled and sliced onion and a sprig 
of mint (canned peas may be used, in which case use juice of onion 
only with the sprig of mint). Drain, put in hot serving dish and 
place 4 teaspoons of butter or margarine on top. Serve hot. 

Dinner — 

Fish Chowder, Asparagus Points with Eggs in Ramakins, 
Potatoes Finnegan, Cherry Salad with Whipped Cream and 
Horseradish in Mayonnaise Sauce. 

Fish Chowder — 

Use any good fresh fish. Boil 2% lbs. of fish (cod, haddock or 
left over boiled fish will do if the water it was cooked in has been 
saved). Parboil 3 cups of diced potatoes. Pry y 2 cup of diced onions 
in % cup of salt pork, diced, until yellow. Arrange in layers fish, 
potatoes, onions and salt pork. Cover with the water the fish was 
boiled in and simmer until the potatoes are tender. Thicken 3 cups 
of hot milk with 3 tablespoons of butter or margarine and 3 table- 
spoons of flour, 114 teaspoons of salt, a little cayenne pepper, 1 beef 
cube, a tiny bit of ground mace and 1 tablespoon of chopped parsley. 
Pour over 9 buttered crackers. Serve very hot. 

Asparagus Points with Eggs — 

Use about 6 asparagus tips in each ramakin. For 5 portions beat 
3 eggs with 2 tablespoons of hot milk, 1 saltspoon of salt, a little 
paprika and 1 beef cube. Beat and pour over the asparagus and 
bake for 10 minutes. 

Whipped Cream and Horseradish Sauce for Salad — 

To y 2 cup of mayonnaise add 2 tablespoons of freshly grated horse- 
radish and Y-y cup of cream whipped to stiff froth. Put on ice for 
Y2 hour before serving. 

26 



Breakfast — 

Stewed Pigs and Cream, Buckwheat Cakes, Maple Syrup, 
Coffee. 



Luncheon — 

Minced Potatoes and Corn, Small Radishes, Rye Bread, Co- 
coa, Miss Houston's Cocoanut Macaroons. 

Minced Potato and Corn — 

Equal parts cold boiled potatoes and corn. To 3 cups of mixture 
put 2 tablespoons of bacon fat in baking dish; turn into it the corn 
and potatoes minced with 1 teaspoon of chopped green pepper and 
y-2 teaspoon of salt. Stir once or twice and bake for 15 minutes. 



Dinner — 

Italian Chopped Beef with Dry Mushroom Sauce, Baked 
White Potatoes, Young Carrots, scraped, boiled and buttered, 
Oatmeal Muffins, Frosted Lemon Puddings. 

Italian Steak — Dry Mushroom Sauce — 

2 lbs. of beef from round, % lb. of salt pork chopped fine or put 
through grinder. Add 1 slice of onion and % cup of boiled rice. 
Form into one big cake or small flat cakes. Broil 5 minutes, turning 
to brown each side. Put on platter, pouring over it the dry mush- 
room sauce made as follows: Pour boiling water over 4 or 5 dry 
mushrooms. Let stand 5 minutes; drain and chop with 1 small onion. 
Fry in drippings for 5 or 6 minutes until brown. Add y± teaspoon of 
salt and 1 cup of boiling water; thicken with 1% teaspoons of flour 
or cornstarch. Boil, stirring all the time, for 5 minutes. 

Frosted Lemon Pudding — 

Beat yolks of 3 eggs; add 2/3 cup of honey or corn syrup, % cup 
sugar juice and grated rind of 1 lemon, 1 quart of milk and 1 pint 
bread crumbs. Stir together and bake 15 minutes in moderate oven. 
Cool and cover with currant jelly. Frost with the whites of 3 eggs 
beaten stiff with 1 tablespoon of sugar. Spread over all and brown 
delicately in oven. Serve cold. 



27 



Breakfast — 

Casaba or Honey Dew Melon, Baeon Fritters, Baking Pow- 
der Biscuit, Coffee. 

Bacon Fritters — 

Fry 10 pieces of thinly cut bacon (not too crisp), then dip into 
hatter made with 2 eggs well beaten with *4 cup of milk, % tea- 
spoon of flour. Then fry in the hot fat, the bacon was first fried in, 
pouring the remainder of batter over it. When both sides are 
brown take up on heated dish and serve at once. 

Luncheon — 

Creamed Codfish in Baked Potato Cases, Sliced Tomatoes, 
French Dressing, Apricot Conserve with Crisped Crackers. 

Creamed Codfish in Potato Cases — 

Select large white potatoes; wash and bake. While hot cut in 
halves lengthwise and scoop out 1 good tablespoon from each half — - 
(set this away for next day). Pile on each half potato 1% table- 
spoons of picked-up codfish in cream sauce and a dot of margarine 
sprinkled with chopped parsley. 

N. B. — Potatoes baked with an extra pan of water in oven will 
come out golden brown. 

Dinner — 

Oyster Soup, Yacht style, Rice Omelette with Cheese Sauce. 
Sweet Potato Pate, Grarje Salad, French Dressing, Crisped 
Crackers and Roquefort Cheese. 

Oyster Soup, Yacht Style — 

Drain 1 pint of oysters; then wash the oysters carefully to remove 
grit; chop oysters fine. Put over fire in 1 quart of milk 1 small 
sliced onion, 1 stalk of celery, 1 blade of mace, 1 level teaspoon of 
salt and a dash of red pepper. Boil 10 minutes; strain and return 
milk to double boiler; thicken with 1 heaping teaspoon of butter 
rubbed to a paste with 1 teaspoon of flour. Boil for 3 minutes. Add 
the drained liquor from oysters and the oysters and boil for 2 min- 
utes. 

Rice Omelette Cheese Sauce — 

3 eggs, white and yolks beaten separately, add 1/3 cup of milk, 
1/2 cup of boiled rice, % teaspoon of salt. Cook as any omelette in 
greased frying or omelette pan. Fold one-half of the omelette over 
the other half. Turn out on hot platter and pour over it the cheese 
sauce, which is a white sauce made of 2 tablespoons of butter or 
margarine, 1 tablespoon of flour, 1 cup of milk and a pinch of salt. 
Cook until creamy, then add 1 cup of grated cheese. Do not boil 
after cheese has been added. 

Sweet Potato Pate — 

1 pint of boiled and mashed sweet potatoes, 2 eggs, 2 tablespoons 
of flour and enough sweet milk to make soft enough to stir well. 
Drop in well greased muffin rings and fry on hot griddle; turn and 
brown on both sides. Serve hot. 

28 



A WHEATLESS DAY. 



Breakfast — 

Oxheart Cherries, Ham Omelette, Barley Muffins, Tea or 
Coffee. 

Barley Muffins — 

1 tablespoon of sugar or Karo, 1 pinch of salt, l 1 /. cups of 
milk, 1 whole egg beaten, 2\ 2 cups of barley flour, 5 tablespoons 
of baking powder, \'- 2 cup of rice flour. Mix dry ingredients. Mix 
egg and milk and add dry ingredients. Bake 25 to 30 minutes. 



Luncheon — 

Scrambled Eggs and Tomatoes, Icicle Radishes, Left-over 
Muffins reheated, Honey Cup Custards. 

Scrambled Eggs and Tomatoes — 

Fry 1 small chopped onion till yellow in 2 tablespoons of butter 
or drippings j add 1 cup of peeled tomato cut small, 1 teaspoon of 
sugar, Yi teaspoon of salt, a few grains of cayenne pepper and 
1 tablespoon of chopped green pepper. Cook for 10 minutes, then 
add 4 eggs slightly beaten, stirring all the time. When of creamy 
consistency serve on buttered toast hot. 



Dinner — 

Cream of Pea Soup, Fried Frogs Legs, Sauce Tartar, Boiled 
Brown Rice, buttered, Baked Stuffed Tomatoes, Blueberry 
Muffins, Chilled Cantaloupe filled with Sliced Peaches. 

Fried Frogs Legs — 

Marinate for 1 hour the frogs legs in French dressing (using 
lemon, not vinegar). Drain, dip in egg and roll in bread crumbs. 
Fry in deep fat, drain on brown paper and serve hot with sauce 
tartar. 

Blueberry Muffins — 

1 teaspoon of butter, 1 tablespoon of sugar, l 1 /^ cups of milk, 2 
cups of rice flour put through sieve with 4 teaspoons of baking 
powder and a pinch of salt, 1 cup of blueberries dredged with 
flour. Bake in greased muffin tins 25 to 30 minutes. 

29 



A WHEAT CONSERVATION MENU. 



Breakfast — 

Raspberries and Currants, Omelette with left-over Peas 
folded in, Barley Biscuits, Cocoa. 

Luncheon — 

Creamed Crab Flakes with Green or Red Peppers served on 
Crisped Oatmeal Crackers, Cucumber and Chives with discs of 
unpeeled Red Radishes and French Salad Dressing, Tea, thin 
Toast and Marmalade. 

Dinner — 

Sardine Rarebit, Sweet Potato Croquettes, Tomato and Let- 
tuce Salad, Fruit Ice. 

Sardine Rarebit — 

Melt 2 tablespoons of butter in omelette pan, add M> lb. of fresh 
cheese grated or chopped, stirring constantly. Reduce heat and 
add slowly the yolk of 1 egg beaten slightly and diluted with % cup 
of milk; continue to stir until slightly thickened; add x /± of tea- 
spoon each of paprika and salt and a drop of tobasco. Boil sar- 
dines 2 minutes and drain. Put on toasted side of slices of bread 
and pour over the rarebit. Serve at once. 

Sweet Potato Croquettes — 

Bake 4 large sweet potatoes (or canned ones will do). Put them 
through puree strainer and to 3 cups add 1% teaspoons of salt, 3 
teaspoons of butter, 3 gratings of orange peel, 3 egg yolks beaten 
and enough hot milk to make of a consistency to handle. Form into 
shape, roll in crumbs and egg and fry in deep fat. 

Fruit Ice — 

Boil 2 cups of water with 1 tablespoon of Karo, 1 tablespoon of 
honey, 1 teaspoon of sugar, for 10 minutes and pour over the 
following fruits that have been put through colander or ricer: 
2 bananas, 2 peaches (fresh or canned), juice and pulp of 1 orange, 
1 lemon and % can of pineapple juice and crushed fruit. Freeze 
and let ripen. 



30 



A MEATLESS DAY. 



Breakfast — 

Strawberries or Stewed Pigs, Eggs Goldenrod, Oatmeal 
Bread toasted. 

Goldenrod Eggs — 

5 hard boiled eggs, I 1 /-, cups of white sauce. Remove shells from 
eggs, chop whites coarsely and add to white sauce to keep hot. 
Pour over 6 slices of buttered toast, then press yolks of eggs 
through ricer or sieve over all and decorate with a spray of parsley 
and dash of paprika. 



Luncheon — 

Casserole of Cabbage,- Boston Brown Bread, Radishes, But- 
termilk, Stewed Rhubarb with Raisins. 

Casserole of Cabbage — 

3 cups of cabbage, 2 onions, 1 teaspoon of salt, 3 tablespoons of 
drippings, y 2 saltspoon of pepper and a little ground nutmeg, 1 
teaspoon of sugar, 1 cup of cut up cold veal, 2 cups of canned 
tomatoes, 3 tablespoons of barley flour and 1% cups of water. Chop 
onions and fry 5 minutes; add flour and seasoning; stir well, then 
turn all into casserole and bake 2 hours. 



Dinner — 

Cream of Tomato Soup, Broiled Whitefish, Sweet Potatoes 
with Marshmallows, Cucumber and Young Onion Salad, French 
Dressing, Vanilla Ice Cream with Strawberry Sauce. 

Sweet Potatoes Baked with Marshmallows — 

6 sweet potatoes freshly boiled (or % of can of sweet potatoes) 
mashed with 1 tablespoon of butter, 1 tablespoon of brown sugar, 
V-2 teaspoon of salt, 2 tablespoons of English walnut meats chopped 
coarsely and 2 tablespoons of cream. Put into buttered bake dish; 
cover top with whole marshmallows and bake till hot and marsh- 
mallows are puffed and golden brown. 



31 



A CONSERVATION MENU. 



Breakfast — 

Catawba Grapes chilled, Fried Cornmeal Mush, Creamed 
Chipped Beef, Toast, Chocolate. 



Luncheon — 

Swiss Eggs, Celery and Apple Salad, Tea, Crisped Graham 
Crackers. 

Swiss Eggs — 

Spread the bottom of shallow pudding dish with 1 tablespoon of 
margarine and 1 tablespoon of grated cheese. Slip carefully onto 
this 6 whole eggs; cover with 1% tablespoons of cream; season 
with a little salt and pepper, then a thick layer of grated cheese. 
Bake 15 minutes in moderate over. Serve hot. 



Dinner — 

Green Corn Soup, Broiled Whitefish, Creamed Potatoes with 
Chopped Parsley over top, Breaded Eggplant, Baked Pears. 

Green Corn Soup — 

Scrape enough corn (uncooked) from cobs to make 1 pint (6 or 7 
ears). Boil the cobs in just enough water to cover for 30 minutes. 
Strain off water and put back to boil; when boiling add the corn 
pulp and cook 10 minutes, then add 1 teaspoon of flour, 1 table- 
spoon of butter, 1 teaspoon of salt, 1 saltspoon of pepper and 1 pint 
of rich milk or milk and cream. Boil 2 minutes and serve. 

Baked Pears — 

Select pears not too ripe; wipe 8 or 9 of them, but do not stem 
or peel. Put into baking dish; pour over them 1 cup of boiling 
water, 114 tablespoons of sugar and I 1 /! tablespoons of Karo syrup. 
Bake slowly, basting frequently. Serve cold with cream. Will 
take 2 or 3 hours to bake. 



32 



A MEATLESS DAY. 



Breakfast — 

Blueberries, Broiled Salt Mackerel, Lemon, Parsley and But- 
ter melted and poured over, Creamed Potatoes, Coffee, Toast. 

Lemon, Parsley and Butter. 

Melt 1 tablespoon of butter over the teakettle, add juice of Yz 
lemon and 1 tablespoon of chopped parsley. Spread over hot broiled 
mackerel and serve. 



Luncheon — 

Vegetables, Nut Bread, Tea, Apricots. 

Vegetable Luncheon — 

Boil separately the following: 10 small onions, iy 2 cups of peas, 
l 1 /. cups of green beans or limas, 10 small carrots cut in halves, 
4 or 5 beets sliced after cooking, 1 cup white sauce divided between 
onions and beans. Butter peas, beets and carrots. Place on round 
platter, keeping each distinct. Looks inviting and is nourishing. 



Dinner — 

Baked Chicken, Fried Crooked Neck Squash, Baked Sliced 
Potatoes, Barley Cookies, Sliced Peaches. 

Baked Chicken, Boston Fashion- 
Cut a chicken as for stewing. Season % cup of rice flour with 
V, level teaspoon of salt, Yi level teaspoon of each onion salt and 
cilery salt. Roll chicken in flour. Pack closely in casserole. Pour 2 
cups 'of boiling water over and dot with butter or bacon drippings. 
Bake 15 minutes in hot oven. Then reduce heat for 1% hours. 

Baked Sliced Potatoes- 
Put into greased dish 4 sliced cold boiled potatoes; sprinkle with 
chopped chives, salt and pepper and a thin grating of parsley be- 
tween each layer. Pour over 1% cups of thin white sauce that 
has Vi cup of grated cheese added. Spread over top buttered 
bread crumbs. Bake till crumbs are browned in hot oven. 

Barley Cookies — 

i/> cup of shortening, 1 cup of sugar, Yi teaspoon nutmeg, 1 pinch 
of salt, M cup of milk, 1 egg not beaten, 1 cup of barley flour, 
1 cup of corn flour, 1 cup of corn starch, i/ 2 teaspoon of soda in 
water. Mix lightly and roll out. Bake 5 minutes in hot oven. 

33 



Breakfast — 

Jonathan Apples, Creamed Salt Fish Omelette, Fruited Corn 
Flour Muffins, Coffee. 

Fruited Corn Flour Muffins — 

1 cup of fruited corn flour, i/> cup of white flour, 2 eggs, 1 cup 
of sweet milk, 3 teaspoons of baking powder, y 2 teaspoon of salt, 
1 tablespoon of shortening, 1 tablespoon of Karo syrup or sugar. 
Separate eggs; beat yolks; add milk and melted shortening; sift 
flour twice with baking powder and salt; add the fruited unsifted 
corn flour and beat, then fold in the beaten whites of eggs. Bake 
in greased gem pans. Makes 12 or 15 muffins according to size of 
pans. 

Luncheon — 

Cheese and Red Peppers, Tomato Jelly on Lettuce, Mayon- 
naise Sauce, Tea, Apple Sauce. 

Cheese with Red Peppers — 

Melt 2 tablespoons of butter or margarine; add 4 tablespoons 
of chopped sweet red pepper, 1 tablespoon of chopped onion, % 
cup of grated cheese, *4 cup of cream and 4 eggs slightly beaten. 
Cook until well blended. Serve on buttered toast. This may be 
cooked in a chafing dish. 



Dinner — 

Chicken Soufle, Baked Onions, Potatoes au Grautin, Currant 
Jelly, Pear Compote. 

Chicken Soufle — 

1 cup of cold cooked chicken chopped fine with % cup of cold 
boiled ham. Add to V-j, cup of bread crumbs that have been soaked 
in % cup milk, 1 small onion chopped with 1 tablespoon of parsley, 
2 eggs well beaten, yolks and whites separately, 1 teaspoon of salt, 
saltspoon of pepper. Pour into greased mold and steam 45 minutes 
or into greased bake dish and stand in hot water and bake 20 
minutes. Turn out and pour over it oyster sauce made as follows: 
To \V-2 cups of white sauce add % cup of washed oysters. Cook 
5 minutes and add a little cayenne and grated nutmeg. Fresh 
asparagus tips may be substituted for oysters. 

Pear Compote — 

i 
Peel and cut in halves 8 large pears; scoop out the cores; pack 
in saucepan close together and pour over them 1 cup of water, 
y± cup of sugar, y% cup of honey, 5 whole cloves, 1 stick of cinna- 
mon finger length and juice of 1 small or y> large lemon. Cover 
closely and simmer until tender. Take, from kettle carefully, stand- 
ing them up in a pyramid. Boil syrup somewhat thicker and pour 
over. Chill ancV serve. 

34 






LIBRARY OF CONGRESS 




014 233 035 



