Google 



This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 

to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 

to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 

are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other maiginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 

publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing tliis resource, we liave taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 
We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain fivm automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attributionTht GoogXt "watermark" you see on each file is essential for in forming people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liabili^ can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 

at |http: //books .google .com/I 



The Arthur and Elizabeth 
SCHLESINGER LIBRARY 

on the History of Women 
in America 



Gift of 
Alfred Perrln 



MRS. ALLEN'S BOOK OF 
MEAT SUBSTITUTES 



MRS. ALLEN'S BOOK OF 
MEAT SUBSTITUTES 



BY 

IDA C. BAILEY ALLEN 



••• 



AUTBOK OF Mas. Ali.bm*s Cook Book** Mma. Axxbii*8 

Book of Whbat Substxtutbs," **Mss. Axj.bm*s 

Book of Sugar Substitutbs** 

Ititor **Hoiuewiret* Foram/' PUUrial RwUw. Foontr 

Editor **Thiee Meals a Daf,** Gmd HamstiMtime 

Magaxhu. Bndoned Lectaier U. S. Food 

Adaiiiiistiatioii. Domettic Sdenoe 

Bxperti UniTenal Film 

Compt&y 




BOSTON 

SMALL, MAYNARD & COMPANY 

PUBLISHERS 






Copyright, 1918 

By small, MAYNARD & COMPANY 
(incorporated) 



TO 

MY GOOD FRIENDS 

THE HOUSEWIVES 

OF THE WORLD 



A 



> I 



CONTENTS 

PAGB 

A Little Talk on Meat Substitutes . . i 

Cheese as a Meat Substitute 6 

Eggs as a Meat Substitute 21 

Milk as a Meat Substitute 30 

Nuts as a Meat Substitute 39 

The Legumes as Meat Substitutes ... 52 

Fish as a Meat Substitute 65 

Meat Substitutes with Cebeal or Vegeta- 
ble Foundation 74 

Savory Sauces and Salad Dressings . . 80 



FOREWORD 

One of the fine things about the war is 
that the women of this country, through 
dire necessity, are learning to use meat sub- 
stitutes rather than so much meat. This 
will mean a greater degree of health, a 
saving of tremendous waste through the in- 
telligent utilization of many fine foods 
hitherto unappreciated, and at the same 
time it must bring about a considerable de- 
crease in Mrs. Uncle Sam's meat bills. 

Many have solved the meat problem by 
eliminating meat entirely from the menu. 
This plan may be satisfactory if the meat 
substitutes introduced are thoroughly un- 
derstood. But often the meatless meal is 
also practically proteinless and individuals 
partaking of it are not only liable to be 
dissatisfied and hungry soon afterwards, 
but undernourished as well. When the 
meatless menu is balanced by the use of 
one of the meat substitutes at each meal, 
these objections will be entirely overcome. 

It is in response to the demand for in- 
formation regarding the meat substitutes 
and their preparation that I have prepared 
this little book. My personal experience 



Foreword 

has shown that a healthy man and active 
children will not enjoy the meat substitutes, 
nor find them sufficiently sustaining unless 
they really " taste good " and are combined 
with sufficient bulk to fill hungry stomachs. 

And so in working out these recipes I 
have used the substitutes in combination 
with foods that the farmer would term 
" roughage," and know that the use of meat 
substitutes, wholly or in part in place of 
meat, will go a long way toward reducing 
the household bills, increasing health and 
helping the economic situation, whether the 
times are of war or of peace. 

At this time the author wishes to acknowl- 
edge her gratitude for the unselfish, com^- 
petent help of her partner, T. L. Allen, on 
this volume, as well as in all of her work, 
and to Miss Sybil Stevens, who has so ably 
helped to carry out the experimental work 
connected with this book. 

Ida C. Bailey Allen 

The Allen Experiment Kitchen 
New York, June 20th, 1918 



MRS. ALLEN'S BOOK OF 
MEAT SUBSTITUTES 

A UTTLE TALK ON MEAT 
SUBSTITUTES 

The list of meat substitutes is extensive 
and includes nuts, cheese, eggs, milk, the 
legumes, as soup-, pinto- and soy beans, 
cow peas, split peas; fresh-, canned-, 
smoked- and salted-fish, and so on, as well 
as all foods in which any one of these is 
predominant, as milk soups, cheese pud- 
dings and the like. 

It is not enough to introduce meat or a 
meat substitute only once a day. Each 
meal should include one of these foods and 
should balance dietetically, so that the con- 
stant body waste may be replenished at 
reasonable intervals, just as coal is put upon 
a furnace. A diet planned so that there 
is just enough of eadh food constituent in- 
sures normal warmth, adequate functioning 
of the body and therefore freedom from 
colds, auto-mtoxication and its train of ills. 

On first thought it may seem over-ex- 
pensive to introduce a muscle-making food 
into every meal, but the gamut of prices is 



2 Mrs. Allen's Book of Meat Substitutes 

wide and almost anyone can find a protein 
food of some sort that may be used if only 
time is taken to hunt around for it as faith- 
fully as one would look for a yard of lace 
or a few yards of gingham. It will not be 
possible, however, to find inexpensive meat 
substitutes unless the stores are persistently 
visited. A few weeks ago a woman con- 
sulted me about the health of her family, 
which was anything but satisfactory. I 
found that she had cut off nearly all muscle- 
making food in the attempt to economize, 
and yet soy beans could at the time in her 
town be obtained as low as three cents a 
pound. She simply hadn't looked arotmd. 

Fish IS higher in price than usual, but by 
purchasing the less familiar kinds, which 
are less expensive, by watching the mar- 
ket and taking advantage of the varieties 
that are canned, smoked and salted, an in- 
expensive meal can always be planned. 

Nuts are a splendid muscle-making food. 
It is sometimes more economical to pur- 
chase the nut meats, especially if they are 
to be used in a short time. Again, it is 
necessary to watch the markets, eighty cents 
a pound, for instance, being too much for 
walnut meats, while thirty-five to forty 
cents, a normal price, yields excellent food 
value at the cost. In some localities native 
nuts, as the black walnut and the hickory- 
nut, may frequently replace meat in the 
meal. Peanuts, too, are inexpensive and if 



A Little Talk on Meat Substitutes 3 

desired may be purchased green and roasted 
at home, or they may be shelled and baked 
in a little cottonseed- or corn-oil. 

Cheese is priced according to food or 
flavor value. Enough dairy cheese to sub- 
stitute for the meat in an entire meal can 
be bought for twenty-five cents, while the 
equivalent in flavor cheese would be enough 
only for a tidbit with coffee. All cheese 
cannot be classed as protein food, but cot- 
tage cheese and that known as ** dairy," or 
whole milk cheese are excellent meat sub- 
stitutes. Eggs are so high that they can 
be used in the economical menu only when 
helped out by a combination with less ex- 
pensive, bulky food. Milk is one of the 
cheapest forms of protein food, even at 
fourteen cents a quart, or more, for it con- 
tains no waste and may be combined with 
bulky foods in order to make it substantial. 
Skimmed, evaporated and powdered milk 
are all valuable meat substitutes. 

The legumes, or dried beans, peas and the 
like, contain a protein similar to that of 
meat, so, when any one of them is intro- 
duced, it should be in the form of a meat 
substitute rather than a vegetable. Dried 
peas and all beans except the soy bean are 
deficient in fat, so this should be introduced 
in their cookery. The soy bean contains so 
much fat that it is even being used as a 
basis for artificial milk, so neither salt pork, 
bacon, nor any other fat need be added. 



4 Mrs. Allen's Book of Meat Substituies 

The legumes furnish one of our most inex- 
pensive types of protein food and if prop- 
erly prepared are digestible. All of the 
legumes should be soaked over night in 
water to cover, drained in the morning, 
covered with boiling water, a fourth tea- 
spoonful of baking soda added to each 
pound of beans and a half teaspoonftd to 
a pound of soy beans, then parboiled for an 
hour, when they are ready to finish in any 
desired way. The soy bean needs a little 
more soaking, and a third more time al- 
lowed for its cookery than for the ordinary 
dried bean. 

The foods that we may draw upon to 
eke out the concentrated protein are those 
of bulky type, such as commeal, cracked 
com or hominy, brown and uncoated rice, 
potatoes, oats, barley, all the summer and 
winter vegetables, as cabbage, beets, car- 
rots, parsnips, peas, turnips, sweet potatoes, 
pumpkin and squash, as well as the canned 
and dried vegetables that were conserved 
during the summer months. 

All of these foods are inexpensive and 
will furnish the bulk that most protein 
foods lack. The majority of people seem 
to feel that they must have a large amount 
of protein food at a meal. This is neither 
wise nor necessary, for too much protein 
will cause illness as well as too much 
starchy food, but we all need a certain 
amount, as a glass of milk, one or two eggs. 



A Little Talk on Meat Substitutes 5 

a medium-sized serving of iish, a handful 
of nut meats, or two or three tablespoon- 
fuls of cooked legumes, any one of which 
is equal in food value to a medium-sized 
slice of meat. If we are given this amount 
in the usual " helping " we feel that we are 
not having enough to eat because the 
amount looks small. But if the food is 
padded out with something bulky, as boiled 
samp with a concentrated milk Welsh rare^ 
bit, the eye will be satisfied and the stomach 
filled, and hunger appeased at less cost be- 
cause the high-priced food will be balanced 
by the less expensive ballast. 

Various foods which have heretofore 
been little used are now coming into prom- 
inence. Among these are: soy bean meal, 
peanut flour, dried pea flour, and cotton- 
seed flour. All of them are very rich in 
protein and may be used in the form of 
breads, waflles or griddle cakes and the like 
to eke out the protein of the meal that will 
not otherwise balance. Cocoanut also is 
a most valuable protein food and may be 
used in combination with many vegetables 
as well as in breads and desserts to heighten 
the muscle-making value of the meal. 



CHEESE AS A MEAT SUBSTITUTE 

Cheese is easily digested when properly 
cooked, and, as with all muscle-msJcers, or 
protein foods, the cookery should be con- 
ducted at a low temperature. A rarebit 
should be prepared over hot water, and a 
dish of escalloped cheese should be sur- 
rounded with hot water while baking, for 
instance, as otherwise the cheese is liable to 
cook too rapidly and become tough and in- 
digestible. All cooked dairy cheese dishes 
should contain a few grains of baking soda 
to overcome the acidity. 

One of the country's oldest foods is 
cottage cheese. Our great-grandmothers 
served it with whole-grain bread and but- 
ter, some fruit and a "dish" of tea for 
supper and achieved a balanced meal! It 
is very easy to make and may be used 
plain, or in salads or sandwiches for lunch- 
eon or supper, as a " roast," or in custard 
pies, or even plain custards that are to act 
as muscle-making desserts. 

The following menus show how cheese 
may be used to supply the protein element 
of the meal. 

6 



Cheese as a Meat Substitute 
COTTAGE CHEESE DISHES 



I 



Escalloped Hominy and Cheese 
Lettuce and Tomato Salad Barley Bread 

Butter or a Substitute 
Honey Baked Apples Robin Adaii 

Tea (adults) 



Chopped Onion Soup 

Cottage Cheese Salad 

Oatmeal Muffins Butter or a Substitute 

Maple Nut Tapioca 
Tea (adults) 

All measurements are level 

Making Cottage Cheese 

The milk should be " on the turn '* and 
thoroughly clabbered. The pan of milk 
should then be set in a vessel of hot water 
and slowly heated till the curd separates. 
Do not let it become too hot or the cheese 
will be tough. The water should be about 
blood heat. When the curd is entirely 
separated turn the mixture into a strainer 
lined with cheese cloth and let it drain. 
The whey should be saved and used for 
the making of fruit tapiocas and the like. 
The curd should be crushed, seasoned with 
salt and paprika and moistened with a lit- 
tle melted butter, or a substitute, or sweet 
or sour cream. 



8 Mrs. Allen's Book of Meat Substitutes 
Cottage Cheese and Nut Boast 

li cupfuls stale bread 2 tablespoonfuls vege- 

crumbs . table oil 

1} cupfuls cottage 2 small onions, minced 

cheese li teaspoonfuls salt 

li cupfuls chopped i teaspoonful pepper 

nut meats 

Combine the crumbs and cheese with the 
oil. If the cheese is not somewhat moist, 
add enough milk to make it stir easily. 
Then fry the onion in a little extra oil and 
add it to the cheese mixture with the re- 
maining ingredients, form it into a roll, 
transfer to an oiled baking-pan, pour a lit- 
tle oil over the top, and, if convenient, dust 
with a little peanut flour. Bake about forty 
minutes in a hot oven at 375 degrees F., 
basting with a little hot water after the loaf 
is crusted over. Serve with white, or to- 
mato sauce or brown nut gravy. 

Cheese and Pimento Boast 

1 cupful cottage 2 teaspoonfuls salt 
cheese i teaspoonful pepper 

4 canned pimentoes, x teaspoonful dry 
minced mustard 

2 cupfuls cooked I cupful stale whole 
beans, any kind grain bread crumbs 

Combine the ingredients ^ in the order 
given, and pack into a well-oiled bread-pan. 
Bake forty minutes in a hot oven at 375 
degrees F., unmold, and serve surrounded 
with stewed tomatoes, creamed com, or any 
other creamed vegetable. 



Cheese as a Meat Substitute 9 

Cottage Cheese and Dried Bean Loaf 

li cupfuls cottage 2 tablespoonfuls 
cheese minced onions, fried 

li cupfuls cooked i cupful fine dry bread 
crushed dried beans crumbs 

i cupful chopped li teaspoonfuls salt 

walnut meats i teaspoonful pepper 
Stewed tomatoes to moisten 

Combine the ingredients in the order 
given, with this exception, add the tomato 
last. Pack into a well-oiled bread-pan and 
bake forty minutes in a hot oven at 375 de- 
grees F. Serve with tomato gravy. 

SavoTy Cottage Cheese 

1 pound cottage } teaspoonful paprika 
cheese i teaspoonful dry 

i cupful chopped mustard 

chives or finely Top milk, or undiluted 

minced onion evaporated milk to 

2 minced pimentoes moisten 
li teaspoonfuls salt 

Combine the ingredients in the order 
given, mixing thoroughly. Use as a salad 
accompaniment, sandwich filling, or as a 
substantial relish to heighten me protein 
value of the meal. 

Baked Tomatoes with Cottage Cheese 

Prepare half of the mixture for Savory 
Cottage Cheese, omitting the milk. Then 
remove the tops from six, good-sized to- 
matoes, scoop out the pulp and add it to the 
cheese. Re-fill the tomatoes with this mix- 



10 Mrs. AUen's Book of Meat Substitutes 

ture, sprinkle the tops with com flakes and 
a little vegetable oil and bake for thirty 
minutes in a hot oven. Serve with white 
sauce containing chopped pimentoes. 

Baked Green Peppers wifh Cottage Cheese 

6 medium-sized green i teaspoonful salt 

peppers i teaspoonful onion 

li cupfuls cottage juice 

cheese i teaspoonful paprika 

2 eggs Corn Flakes 

If the cheese is very firm, moisten it with 
a little milk. Then add the eggs well- 
beaten and the seasonings, and thicken the 
mixture with the corn flakes till it can be 
handled. Cut the peppers in halves length- 
wise, remove the seeds and cores and fill 
with the cheese mixture. Transfer them 
to a fireproof platter, pour in tomato sauce 
or stewed tomatoes to the depth of half an 
inch and bake in an oven at 375 degrees 
F., till the peppers are tender and tiie cheese 
is browned on the top. Serve with the 
sauce. 

Cottage Cheese and Com Fatties 

I cupful canned corn, 2 cupfuls cottage 
fresh or dried com cheese 

Dry bread crumbs 
Salt, pepper and paprika to taste 

Put the com in a bowl and mix it thor- 
oughly with the cottage cheese, then work in 
criunbs till the mixture can be handled, sea- 



Cheese as a Meat Substitute n 

son, form it into flat cakes, roll them in a 
little com flour and brown on a griddle in 
vegetable oil. Serve with or without green 
pepper relish. 

CacTunbers Stuffed with Cottage Cheese 

Pare the cucumbers and cut them in 
halves cross-wise. Scoop out the pulp 
with a pointed spoon and fill in the cavities 
with cottage cheese, well-seasoned with 
salt, pepper and paprika. Pack it in thor- 
oughly and then chill the cucumber, cut it in 
thick slices and serve as a substantial relish, 
or on lettuce leaves as a salad with an ac- 
companiment of Chili Salad Dressing. 

Cottage Cheese and Tomato Salad 

Allow a medium-sized tomato for each 
person. Remove the skins and scoop out 
the pulp, forming cups. For six tomatoes, 
use for filling, a cupful of cottage cheese, 
mixed with two tablespoonfuls of minced 
green pepper, a little onion juice, salt and 
paprika to taste and a few nuts if desired. 
Pack this into the tomatoes, dust the tops 
with a little additional minced green pepper 
and serve on individual plates, garnishing 
the salad with lettuce leaves and pouring 
over French Pickled Onion Dressing. 

Cottage Cheese, Almond and Tomato Salad 
Follow the preceding directions for Cot- 



12 Mrs. Allen's Book of Meat Substitutes 

tage Cheese and Tomato Salad, adding to 
the cheese filling, a third cupful of chopped, 
toasted almond meats. Serve with Frendi 
Almond Dressing. 

Cottage Cheese and Kidney Bean Salad 

2 cupf uls cooked kid- f cupful cottage 

ney beans cheese 

i cupful French i small onion minced 

dressing i teaspoonful salt 

Lettuce or cress i teaspoonful pepper 

2 tablespoonfuls cream or rich milk 

Combine the cottage cheese, onion and 
seasonings and form into balls. While 
these are chilling put together the beans 
and French Dressing and let them stand for 
a few minutes in a cool place. Serve on 
individual plates with a garnish of salad 
green and the cheese balls. 

Holded Cottage Cheese Salad 

I pound, or 2 cupfuls Salt and paprika to 

cottage cheese taste 

li tablespoonfuls 2 minced pimentoes 

milk, or salad oil i cupful diopped wal- 
I tablespoonful finely nuts 

minced parsley Lettuce and Chili 

Salad Dressing 

Blend the cheese with the various in- 
gredients except the lettuce and dressing. 
Pack in individual molds rinsed with cold 
water, let stand to become very cold, tihen 
unmold, garnish with lettuce and serve with 
Chili Dressing. 



Cheese as a Meat Substitute 13 

Cottage Cheese with Strawberries 

li cupfuls cottage li cupfuls halved 

cheese strawberries 

Honey to taste 

A few moments before serving time, 
combine the cottage cheese and strawber- 
ries, mixing them lightly and adding honey 
to taste. Serve in a meal otherwise de- 
ficient in protein, with warm oat or com 
xiour muffins or biscuits. 

Cottage Cheese with Figs 

Stew pulled, or whole, figs so slowly that 
no sugar will be needed for sweetening. 
Chill, make an incision in each and fill with 
cottage cheese, moistened with a little fig 
juice and re-inforced with a few chopped 
nut meats. Chill and serve as a combined 
dessert and cheese course with coffee at 
luncheon. 

Cottage Cheese Sandwiehes 

Any of the coarse breads may be used 
with cottage cheese filling, as substantial 
sandwiches for luncheon or supper, instead 
of other protein food. These may be 
varied as follows: 

Barley bread, strawberry or raspberry 
jam, or crushed fresh berries, plain cottage 
cheese and butter, or a substitute. 

Commeal bread, lettuce or cress dipped 
in French Dressing, cottage cheese seasoned 



14 Mrs, Allen's Book of Meat Substitutes 

with minced chives and butter or a substi- 
tute. 

Oatmeal bread, chopped cooked prunes, 
cottage cheese mixed with chopped nuts and 
butter or peanut butter. 

Rye bread, cottage cheese moistened with 
sour cream, and highly seasoned with pap- 
rika and salt, minced chives or onion, cara- 
way seed and butter or a substitute. The 
bread should be spread first with the butter, 
then with the cheese, and the chives and 
then the caraway seed should be sprinkled 
over. The usual second slice of bread 
should be omitted. 

Cottage Cheese Club Sandwiches 

Toast any of the coarse breads on one 
side of each slice, allowing two slices to a 
person. Spread the untoasted sides thickly 
with a mixture of cottage cheese, combined 
with half the quantity of chopped nut meats 
and a fourth the amount of minced, scalded, 
fresh, or canned green peppers and a little 
butter or a substitute. Put together with 
thin slices of tomato jelly or fresh toma- 
toes, and lettuce which has been dipped in 
French Dressing. 



DAIRY CHEESE DISHES 

Full milk dairy cheese is one of our 
most valuable meat substitutes and it should 
appear frequently in the meatless menu. 
At the present writing this type of cheese 
is selling for twenty-nine cents a pound. 
Supplemented by bulky, inexpensive foods 
this amount is sufficient for the prepara- 
tion of the main dish for luncheon or sup- 
per for a family of six. 

Odds and ends of cheese may be used to 
re-inforce dishes of escallopea vegetables, 
soups and even salads, giving them a cer- 
tain amount of protein or muscle-making 
value. All scraps of cheese and the rinds 
should be exposed to the air until dry, then 
grated and put in a jar with a perforated 
top, ready for use when needed. 

All measurements are level 

EscaUoped Cheese with Hominy or Pearled 

Barley 

i pound dairy cheese i teaspoonful soda 

3 cupfuls cooked 3 cupfuls thin white 

hominy or pearled sauce 

barley 

Oil a baking-dish. Put in a layer of the 
cereal, then one of cheese and one of the 
sauce mixed with the soda. Continue in 
this way till all is used; set the dish in a 

15 



i6 Mrs. AUeWs Book of Meat Substitutes 

pan of hot water and bake gently for an 
hour in a moderate oven. 

Cheese Timbales 

3 cupf uls milk, scalded 2 teaspoonf uls salt 

4 eggs i teaspoonf ul paprika 
I cupful grated dairy i green pepper 

cheese Few grains soda 

I onion 

Put the onion and green pepper through 
the food-chopper, beat the eggs, add the 
vegetables, seasonings, cheese and milk and 
transfer to oiled custard cups. Place in a 
dripping pan, half surround with hot water 
and bake tmtil firm in the middle in a mod- 
erate oven at 350 degrees F. Serve with 
coarse bread crumbs, which have been 
mixed with a little vegetable oil and 
browned in the oven. 

Egoless Welsh Karebit 

1} cupfuls diced i teaspoonful mustard 

dairy cheese i teaspoonful paprika 

} cupful cornstarch i tablespoonful butter 
or potato flour substitute 

li teaspoonf uls salt 2^ cupfuls milk 
Few grains soda 

Combine the ingredients in the order 
given, scalding one and a half cupfuls of 
the milk and reserving the other cupful 
to mix with the cheese and cornstarch. 
Then add the scalded milk, set over hot 
water and cook until the cheese is melted 



Dairy Cheese Dishes VJ 

and the mixture is thick^ stirring often. 
Serve with boiled samp or coarse hominy, 
or poured over sliced tomatoes, or on 
toasted, coarse bread. 

Cheese and Toioato Toast 

Prepare the mixture for Eggless Welsh 
Rarebit, using only one and one-half cup- 
fuls of milk. When done, stir in a cupful 
of thick, well-stewed tomato which has 
been seasoned with onion, mustard, salt 
and pepper, and neutralized with a few 
grains of soda. Serve on toasted, coarse 
bread. 

Wheatless Noodles with Cheese Sance 

I tisg \ cupful cornstarch 

i cupful barley flour \ teaspoonful salt 

Break the egg into a bowl and add to it 
an egg-shell full of water. Stir in the 
other ingredients, working it to a thick 
paste. Roll out to a sheet of pasteboard 
thickness, and let stand till almost dry. 
Then roll as jelly roll and cut in thin strips. 
Cook as any noodles and serve with cheese 
sauce, or in soup, or tomato, or white 
sauce. 

Fried Sice and Cheese 



li cupfuls cubed 4 minced onions 

dairy cheese Vegetable oil 

2i cupfuls boiled Salt and pepper to 
brown rice taste 

2 minced pimentoes Few grains soda 



i8 Mrs. Allen's Book of Meat Substitutes 

Combine the ingredients in the order 
given, mixing them thoroughly. Heat two 
tablespoonfuls of vegetable oil in a frying- 
pan, press in the cheese mixture and cook 
slowly for about ten minutes, then brown 
quickly, fold as an omelet and serve with 
tomato sauce, or heated canned tomato soup, 
only slightly diluted. Hominy may be sub- 
stituted for the rice. 

Baked Cheese with Bread Crumbs 

2 cupfuls coarsely Few grains soda 

chopped dairy cheese i teaspoonf ul mustard 

2i cupfuls coarse I teaspoonful salt 

bread crumbs i teaspoonful paprika 

i cupful butter sub- Milk to moisten 
stitute 

Oil a baking-dish thoroughly. Fry the 
crumbs in the butter substitute and slice the 
cheese thin. Place the crumbs and cheese 
in alternate layers in a baking-dish. Add 
the soda and seasonings to a cupful of milk, 
and pour this over the cheese mixture, then 
add more milk until the dish is barely 
moistened. Bake from thirty to thirty-five 
minutes in an oven at 375 degrees F., set- 
ting the dish in a pan of hot water; then 
remove from the water and brown. 

Tomato Cheese Soup with Eggs 

I cupful finely cubed 3 eggs, slightly beaten 

dairy cheese i teaspoonful salt 

I quart canned to- i teaspoonful pepper 

matoes i teaspoonful mustard 

I pint milk i teaspoonful soda 



Dairy Cheese Dishes 19 

Stew the tomatoes for twenty minutes 
with the salt, pepper and mustard. Scald 
the milk and pour it into the eggs which 
should be slightly beaten. Add the soda 
and cheese to the tomatoes and stir until 
the cheese is melted. Then combine the 
two mixtures, stirring constantly until boil- 
ing-point has been almost reached. Season 
with paprika and serve at once. 

Orated Cheese, Pineapple and Oreen Pepper 

Salad 

6 rounds canned pine- i cupful minced green 
apple peppers, or pimen- 

I cupful grated dairy toes 
cheese Lettuce 

French dressing 

Arrange the pineapple slices individually 
on beds of lettuce leaves, heap them with 
the dairy cheese and garnish about the edge 
of the slices with green peppers. Pass 
French Dressing. 

Savory Dairy Cheese Salad 

i pound grated dairy i teaspoonful prepared 

cheese mustard 

I hard-cooked egg i teaspoonful com 

I J tablespoonfuls syrup 

salad oil I tablespoonful onion 

} teaspoonful paprika vinegar 

I teaspoonful salt Watercress 

Mash the egg-yolk and beat into it the 
oil and seasonings. Then stir in the cheese, 
working it well together, and add the vine- 



20 Mrs. Allen's Book of Meat Substitutes 

gar. If onion vinegar is not at hand, use 
plain vinegar and a half tablespoonful of 
scraped onion. Form into balls, chill and 
serve wreathed with the cress, and sprinkled 
with the chopped egg-white. Or if de- 
sired the balls may be piled upon dressed, 
sliced tomatoes before the cress garnish is 
added. 



EGGS AS A MEAT SUBSTITUTE 

Although eggs are an excellent meat sub- 
stitute, the man of the house is liable to 
feel that he has " had nothing," for lunch- 
eon or dinner, or even supper, if he is 
served eggs in place of meat. This is be- 
cause, like cheese, they are a concentrated 
food and a certain amount of bulk is needed 
to augment them. Again, eggs are a rather 
expensive article of food for the average 
family, so in (wder to serve them often, 
in most households they must necessarily 
be eked out with other foods less expensive 
and fairly bulky. 

The coarse cereals, various vegetables 
and certain fruits, as well as fish, may be 
used to good advantage with eggs. Milk 
and cheese may also supplement them. 

It is not our purpose in this book, be- 
cause of lack of space, to give recipes for 
well-known dishes. So in this section on 
eggs> we are taking it for granted that the 
housewife knows how to make omelets, 
scrambled, shirred or poached eggs and the 
like. Rather we have tried to give sug- 
gestions in place of a large number of 
specific recipes. 

The following menus show how eggs 

21 



22 Mrs. Allen's Book of Meat Substitutes 

may be used to supply the protein food of 
the meal. 

I 

Tomato Bouillon, optional 

Poached Eggs in Nests of Rice 

Com Pone with Butter or a Substitute 

Peaches Top Milk 

Tea (adults) 

a 

Oyster Bouillon, Hot or Cold 
Radish, Egg and Potato Salad 

Eggless Mayonnaise 

Buckwheat Biscuits Butter or a Substitute 

Pineapple with Honey Lemon Jelly 

Tea (adults) 

MAKING PLAIN OMELETS " GO 
FARTHER " 

Serve a pint of any creamed vegetable 
in the fold and about the omelet. Or, sub- 
stitute equal parts of boiled brown rice and 
oysters, or other fish, in white sauce. 

Add one-fourth pound of grated cheese 
to four eggs and make as a plain omelet. 
Or serve the omelet with tomatoes and 
green peppers fried together. 

All measurements are level 
Cereal Omelet 

I cupful left-over J teaspoonful pepper 

cooked cereal 4 eggs 

i cupful milk 2 tablespoonfuls vege- 
i^ teaspoonfuls salt table oil 

Mix the milk and seasonings with the 
cereal, stirring out all the lumps, then sepa- 



Eggs as a Meat Substitute 23 

rate the eggs, beat the whites tiU stifif and 
the yolks till lemonrcolored and add the 
yolks to the cereal mixture. Fold in the 
whites and pour into a f r3ring pan in which 
the oil has been heated. Cook as any ome- 
let 

Bread Cnunb Omelet 

Substitute stale bread crumbs (not dry) 
for the cereal in the preceding recipe and 
proceed as directed. 

Pimento and CSheese Omelet 

5 eggs i cupful cheese sliced 
5 tablespoonfuls hot thin 

water 2 minced pimentoes 

1} teaspoonfuls salt 2 tablespoonfuls vege- 
i teasponful pepper table oil 

Beat the eggs till very light, then add the 
water and seasonings and cook as any 
omelet in the oil. When brown on the bot- 
tom, spread the cheese and pimentoes over 
the top and place in the oven and cook till 
the cheese is soft and the whole is firm. 
Then fold over as usual. Creamed pota- 
toes are a particularly good accompani- 
ment. 

Cabbage Omelet 

3 eggs J cupful milk 

3i cupfuls cooked J tablespoonful vege- 
" Ten-minute Cab- table oil 

bage'' Salt and pepper to 
i tablespoonful rye taste 

flour 



24 Mrs. Allen's Book of Meat Substitutes 

Combine the cabbage, flour and milk and 
stir in the eggs well-beaten. Season to 
taste and fry as usual in the vegetable oil. 

Onion and Oreen Pepper Omelet 

Follow the proportions given for Cab- 
bage Omelet, substituting two cupfuls of 
chopped, cooked onion and a minced green 
pepper for the cabbage. 

Salmon Omelet 

2 eggs well-beaten 2 tablespoonfuls 

1 cupful cooked, , minced onion, op- 
brown rice tional 

i cupful minced sal- 2 tablespoonfuls 
mon minced green pep- 

per, optional 
2 tablespoonfuls vegetable oil 

Cook the vegetables in the oil till tender. 
Then combine the remaining ingredients, 
stirring them well and season the mixture 
to taste. Add the cooked vegetables and 
pack the mixture into a frying-pan. Cook 
till crisp and brown ; fold over and serve. 

Com Omelet 

2 cupfuls com, scraped i teaspoonful salt 
from tiie cob i teaspoonful pepper 

I minced green pepper 2 tablespoonfuls veg- 

3 eggs etable oil 

Cook the com and green pepper in the oil 
till slightly yellowed. Then pour in the 
eggs very well beaten and season with the 
salt and pepper. Cook gently till browned 



Eggs as a Meat Substitute 25 

on the bottom, set in the oven for a moment 
to firm the top if necessary, fold over and 
serve. 

MAKING POACHED EGGS " GO 
FARTHER " 

Plain poached eggs, while nutritious and 
easily digested, are not especially substan- 
tial. However, if they are re-inf orced by a 
white sauce which can be poured over the 
toast, with well-seasoned, stewed tcnnatoes, 
a plain cheese sauce, creamed spinach, or 
some other inexpensive, bull^ food, they 
will really satisfy a genuine appetite. 
Oftentimes the eggs may be actually 
poached in the sauce which is to accom- 
pany them. If this is not done and they 
are cooked in water, the prdcess should be 
carried on in oiled molds or rings to avoid 
waste. Even round baking powder-can 
tops may be used for th* purpose. 

Poached "EggB with Bice and Cheese 

3 cupfuls boiled brown xi cupfuls grated 

rice dairy cheese 

6 eggs Butter 

Salt and paprika 

Form the rice into nests on a fireproof 
platter. Poach the eggs in milk and place 
an egg in the indentation of each nest. 
Dust with salt and paprika, sprinkle over 
the cheese and pour the milk gently into the 
platter. Set in the oven for a moment to 



26 Mrs. Allen's Book of Meat Substitutes 

brown the cheese if convenient. Hominy 
may be used instead of rice. 

Poached Eggi with Mashed Potatoes 

4 cupfuls mashed po- Salt and pepper 

tato I cupful grated dairy 

6 eggs cheese 

Butter 

Combine the cheese and potato, beat well 
and form into nests, place a poached egg 
in each, dust with salt and pepper and 
dot with butter, and if convenient place in 
a hot oven to brown for a moment. 

Poached Eggs with Creamed Onions 

Prepare creamed onions, chopping the 
latter coarsely and making the sauce thick. 
Pour over toasted bread, and place a 
poached egg for each person, on the toast. 

MAKING SCRAMBLED EGGS •'GO 
FARTHER " 

As usually prepared, scrambled eggs are 
rather expensive, as one egg is nardly 
enough per person. But if combined with 
a cupful of creamed rice, a cupful of left- 
over Eggless Welsh Rarebit, a cupful of 
any creamed vegetable, or left-over creamed 
fish or oysters, four eggs will go as far as 
six and the dish will take on the character- 
istics of luncheon or supper, rather than 
breakfast 



J 



Eggs as a Meat Substitute 27 

Scrambled Eggs with Eg^-plant 

4 eggs Com flour 

li cupfuls pared, diced li teaspoonfuls salt 
egg-plant i teaspoonful pepper 

Vegetable oil 

Season the egg-plant with salt and pepper 
and roll it in the corn flour. Fry gently 
till light brown in enough vegetable oil to 
keep it from sticking. Then strain out 
any particles of com flour that may have 
become over-brown in the oil and wipe out 
the frying-pan with a bit of paper. Re- 
turn the egg-plant and oil to it, add the eggs 
which should be well-beaten with the sea- 
sonings, and scramble as usual. 

Scrambled Eggs with CucumberB 

Substitute diced cucumbers for the egg- 
plant in the preceding recipe and proceed 
as directed. 

Scrambled Eggs with Savory Bice 

2 cupfuls boiled brown I cupful sliced onion 

rice 4 eggs 

2 tablespoonfuls 2i teaspoonfuls vege- 
minced green pep- table oil 

per Salt and pepper 

Cook the onions and green pepper gently 
in the oil till tender, then add the rice and 
cook it till light brown. Season to taste and 
pour in the eggs which should be well- 
beaten. Scramble as usual. 



2B Mrs. AUen's Book of Meat SubsHMes 



WAYS TO USE HARD-COOKED EGGS 

Hard-cooked eggs may be used as a sup- 
plement to many dishes otherwise deficient 
in protein value, as escallops, creamed veg- 
etables, vegetable short cakes and the like, 
or they may be used in various salads of 
green foods. 

Creamed Eggs ^fh Samp 

4 hard-cooked eggs i tablespoonful com- 
2 minced green pep- starch 

pers, or pimentoes li cupfuls whole milk 

2 tablespoonfuls vege- 3 cupfuls samp, or 

table oil coarse hominy 

I tablespoonful barley f teaspocmful salt 

flour h teaspoonful pepper 

Cook the green pepper in the vegetable 
oil till tender, then stir in the barley flour 
and cornstarch, add the seasonings and 
gradually the milk. When this boils, stir 
m the eggs, coarsely chopped, and serve as 
a sauce over the samp which should be 
well-seasoned. Hulled com which has 
been heated in a little butter substitute may 
replace the samp. 



Eggs as a Meat Substitute 29 

VEGETABLE SALADS, SUBSTANTIAL- 
IZED WITH HARD-COOKED EGGS 

Com and Egg Salad 

2 cupfuls cooked corn, I minced pimento, op- 
from the cob tional 

3 coarsely-chopped Lettuce or cress 
hard-cooked eggs French Dressing 

Combine the com, egg and pimento with 
French Dressing to moisten. Chill and 
serve in nests of lettuce or cress. 

Beet and ILgg Salad 

2) cupfuls diced, i small head lettuce, 
cooked beets shredded 

2 medium-sized on- 3 hard-cooked eggs, 
ions, ground chopped 

Boiled Salad Dressing 

Have all the ingredients cold. Combine 
in the order given, moisten with the dress- 
ing and serve at once. 

Sadish, Egg and Potato Salad 

f cupful sliced rad« 3 hard-cooked eggs, 

ishes chopped 

3 cupfuls finely diced Eggless Mayonnaise 
potatoes Romaine or lettuce 

Combine the radishes, potatoes and eggs 
with mayonnaise to moisten. Let chill for 
half an hour and serve on the salad green. 



MILK AS A MEAT SUBSTITUTE 

Of all the animal foods, milk demands 
the least grain for its production, particu- 
larly during the spring and summer months 
when the cattle graze. So when we use 
milk and cheese, or one of its derivatives 
in place of meat, we are actually saving 
grain, and at the same time purchasing an 
inexpensive protein food. Besides, the 
cookery of the dairy products demands lit- 
tle heat, so a fuel-saving is also effected. 

It is not enough to put the food requi- 
sites into the meal ; sufficient bulk must be 
there to satisfy hungry appetites. So, in 
substituting milk for meat, first of all, re- 
member that it is a concentrated food as 
well as a liquid, and that it has practically 
no bulk at all. The old-fashioned luncheon 
of bread and milk with a little fruit is as 
good to-day as it was years ago, if the 
bread is coarse, made of the whole grain. 
It contains every element suited to growth 
and sustenance. But if the milk is served 
without plenty of coarse bread, the meal 
will not satisfy the average person, who 
feels that " real food is something you have 
to chew." 

It is not necessary to introduce milk as 

30 



MUk as a Meat Substitute 31 

the main dish of the meal in order to use 
it as the protein element which corresponds 
to meat. It may be in the form of a soup 
or milk chowder, to be served as the first 
coiu^se, while the piece de resistance may 
be a vegetable dish. Or it may even be 
introduced in the form of dessert, as cus- 
tards, plain floating island, bread pudding, 
cereal pudding, old-fashioned junket, corn- 
starch pudding, or sea moss blanc mange, 
frozen custard and all ice creams, as junket 
ice cream, fruit creams and the like. In 
preparing these, substitute cornstarch, or 
rice or potato flour for the wheat flour often 
demanded by the usual recipe. As a gen- 
eral rule the amount of sugar in the home 
recipe may be reduced a third, or a sugar 
substitute used. 

When milk is to replace meat in the 
menu, whole milk should be used if pos^ 
sible. If it is necessary to use skimmed 
milk an extra tablespoonf ul of fat per pint 
should be introduced. Skimmed milk is 
now legally on sale in many of our large 
cities and it may be substituted at much less 
cost for the milk generally used in cooking. 
It contains practically all but the fat of the 
milk. Powdered or evaporated milk may 
also be used. 

The following menus show how milk may 
be used to supply the protein, or muscle- 
making element of the meal. 



32 Mrs. AUen*§ Book of Meat Substitutes 



Cream of Spinach Soup 

Com Muffins Butter or a Substitute 

Pineapple and Strawberry Salad Honey Dressing 

Tea (adults) 

. 2 

Clam Bouillon 

Asparagus Escalloped with Milk and Samp 

Oatmeal Bread and Butter or a substitute 

Lettuce and Radish Salad > French Dressing 

Honey Snow Pudding 

Tea (adults) 

When milk is used in cream soups, in 
creaming or escalloping vegetables, or in 
creaming odds and ends of fish, it should 
be in the form of white sauce. Nearly 
every familiar food must now be adapted 
to wartime methods of preparation, and 
white sauce is no exception. 

All measurements are level 

White Sauce 

Combine two tablespoonf uls of vegetable 
cooking oil or butter substitute with one 
and one-half tablespoonfuls of cornstarch, 
potato-or-rice flour, or two tablespoonfuls 
of barley-or-rye-flour. Add one-half tea- 
spoonful of salt and an eighth teaspoonful 
of pepper, and gradually stir in a pint of 
milk, taking care to avoid lumping. Bring 
to boiling-point and, if to be used in cream- 
ing vegetables or fish, cook over hot water 
with the food in it for the last ten minutes ; 
or, if to be combined in a soup or escallop, 



Milk (u a Meat Substitute 33 

the sauce may be added at once, the re* 
maining cookery being finished in the dish 
itself. Milk may often be used in the form 
of well-made white sauce as gravy to sup- 
plement a scanty supply of canned, or 
cooked, fresh, or dried vegetables. 

GENERAL DIRECTIONS FOR MAKING 
CREAM SOUP WITH COOKED 
VEGETABLES 
In cooking the dinner vegetable, plan to 
have one or two cupfuls left over that may 
be used as a basis for a cream soup, as 
asparagus, onions, spinach, carrots, pump- 
kin, peas and the like. 

Ingredients 

1 to 2 cupfuls cooked 2 sprigs parsley, op- 
vegetable tional 

2 cupfuls water, vege- 2 sliced onions 
table water, potato 3 cupfuls white sauce 
or rice water or. Salt and pepper to 
meatless stock taste 

Cook the vegetables, after chopping them 
fine, in the liquid for twenty minutes to- 
gether with the parsley and onion, which 
should be minced. Then add the sauce, sea- 
son to taste, bring to boiling-point and 
serve. Do not strain the soup as the vege- 
table will give added bulk to the meal. 

ESCALLOPED VEGETABLE DISHES WITH 
MILK FOUNDATION 

These may be made of canned, fresh, or 



34 Mrs. Allen's Book of Meat Substitutes 

dried, cooked vegetables in combination 
with samp, boiled rice, hominy, or corn- 
meal mush, white sauce and suitable sea- 
sonings. In general, use two cupfuls of 
the cooked vegetable, a cupful of the cereal, 
two cupfuls of well-seasoned white sauce, 
and cover the top with one cupful of ground 
dry bread crumbs, mixed with one and one- 
half tablespoonfuls of butter substitute. 
Grated cheese, or sliced, hard-cooked eggs 
may be added to these escallops if desired. 

Suitable combinations for escallops are: 

Cooked asparagus, brown rice, white 
sauce and minced pimentoes. 

Cooked carrots, samp, white sauce, with 
a seasoning of celery salt. 

Cooked onions, hominy, white sauce and 
cheese with a high seasoning of paprika. 

Cooked new cabbage, bread crumbs, white 
sauce and grated cheese. 

Cream of Celery Sonp wifk Bioe 

3 cupfuls chopped eel- 2 tablespoonfuls butter 

ery leaves substitute 

^ cupfuls water 2 tablespoonfuls barley 

I cupful brown rice or rye flour 

2i cupfuls milk 1} teaspoonfuls salt 

h teaspoonful pepper 

Cook the celery leaves in the water for 
half an hour. Then drain off the water, 
add the rice and seasonings to it and cook 
till the rice is done. Then stir in the milk 
and thicken the soup with the butter sub- 
stitute blended with the flour. 



Milk as a Meat Substitute 



35 



Lettuce Sonp with Potato Water 

3 cupfuls outer lettuce 3 cupfuls water in 

leaves which potatoes have 

1 onion been cooked 

2 outer stalks celery i pint white sauce 

Put the lettuce leaves, onion and celery 
through the food chopper. Then cook 
them together in the potato water till the 
onion is soft. Sift, combine with the white 
sauce and serve with or without grated 
cheese. 

Chopped Onion Soup 



2} cupfuls onions, 
coarsely chopped 

I stalk celery, minced, 
optional 

2i cupfuls water 

i teaspoonful pepper 



li teaspoonfuls salt 

2i cupfuls milk 

2 tablespoonfuls bar- 
ley or rye flour 

2 tablespoonfuls butter 
substitute 



Boil the onions with the water and sea- 
sonings until they are soft, about forty 
minutes. Then add the milk and thicken 
with the flour and butter substitute blended. 
Water left from the boiling of rice, maca- 
roni, potato, or any vegetable may be sub- 
stituted for the plain water designated. It 
is not necessary to strain this soup. 



Cream of Cairot and Pea Sonp 



1} cupfuls carrots, 

ground 
I small onion, ground 
I quart milk 
I teaspoonful salt 
i teaspoonful pepper 
Few grains mace 



rye 



1} tablespoonfuls 
or barley flour 

li tablespoonfuls but- 
ter substitute 

I cupful left-over 
cooked peas 



36 Mrs. AUefis Book of Meat Substitutes 

Cook the carrots, onion, milk and sea- 
sonings in a double-boiler about forty-five 
minutes. Thicken with the flour and but- 
ter substitute blended. Add the peas, let 
stand ten minutes and serve. 

Vegetable Cream Sonp 

4 cupfuls white meat- i small potata, minced 
less stock I carrot, minced 

i teaspoonful brown J cupful minced celery 

corn-syrup li tablespoonfuls bar- 

I tablespoonful browd ley, rice or potato 

rice, or pearled bar- flour 

ley I tablespoonful butter 

f cupful stewed to- substitute 

mato ^ 1} cupfuls milk 

1 small onion, minced Few grains soda 

Salt and pepper to taste 

Add the minced vegetables to the soup- 
stock, rice and syrup. Boil until tender. 
Add the soda and season to taste with salt 
and pepper. Thicken with the flour blended 
with the butter substitute and add the milk 
which should be scalded. 

Pea Pod Sonp 

Pods from 2 quarts of 2 tablespoonfuls butter 
peas substitute 

5 cupfuls boiling water i teaspoonful salt 

i onion, sliced i teaspoonful pepper 

i tablespoonful white 2} cupfuls milk 

corn-s3rrup i cupful light cream 

2 tablespoonfuls com- or undiluted evapo- 
starch, potato or rice rated milk 

flour 

Cut the pods coarsely and add them to 



MUk as a Meat Substitute 37 

the boiling water with the onion^ cooking 
them gently for two hours, then strain. To 
the liquor, which should be three cupfuls, 
add the milk and seasonings. When this 
boils thicken with the flour, blended with 
the butter substitute. A few left-over car- 
rots, diced, cooked celery or cooked rice 
may be added to this soup. 

Com and Bean Chowder 

I cupful fresh, canned 3 teaspoonfuls salt 

or stewed dried com 2 tablespoonfuls 

I cupful cooked kid- minced green pep 
ney beans per, optional 

i cupful oatmeal 2 cupfuls milk 

4 cupfuls water i onion, minced 

I teaspoonful celery salt 

Combine the water, onion, gfreen pepper, 
com and oatmeal with the seasonings, and 
boil gently till the oatmeal is soft, about 
twenty minutes. Then add the kidney 
beans. Boil a few moments longer, turn 
in the milk and re-heat 

Xnsliroom Oream Chowder 

} pound fresh or 1} cupfuls coarsely 

canned mushrooms chopped celery 

I quart boiling water i cupful brown rice 

3 cupfuls milk Salt, pepper and nut- 
I tablespoonful minced meg to taste 
parsley 

Qean the mushrooms if fresh ones are 
chosen. In any case chop them rather 
coarsely, then add with the celery and rice 



38 Mrs. Allen's Book of Meat Substitutes 

to the water and boil for half an hour, or 
until the rice and celery are tender. Then 
add the milk, re-heat, season to taste, add 
the parsley, and, if desired, thicken with rice 
flour mixed with a little butter substitute. 
Serve with the vegetables in the chowder. 



NUTS AS A MEAT SUBSTITUTE 

Nuts, in combination with vegetables, 
cereals, and sometimes cheese, may be made 
into excellent meat substitutes. Walnuts, 
hickory-nuts and English walnuts may be 
used interchangeably, but the amount of 
fat should be reduced when black walnuts 
are used, as they are particularly rich in 
this respect. If nuts are to appear often, 
it pays to buy the meats in fairly large 
quantities, if they can be stored in a dry, 
cool place, but if they are to be kept longer 
than a month, they should be purchased in 
the shell, or in small amounts that may be 
used up quickly. 

Almonds and pecans are good meat sub- 
stitutes, but they are over-expensive, un- 
less procured in the section in which they 
are grown. Butternuts are especially rich 
in fat, and if they are used, no other fat 
except butter, or a substitute should ap- 
pear in the meal. Our own American 
chestnut may also be used as a food in- 
stead of a luxury or an accessory. Like 
the French chestnut, however, it is as much 
a starch food as a protein. In France and 
Italy chestnut flour is a common article of 
diet. 

39 



40 Mrs. Allen's Book of Meat Substitutes 

Peanuts are the cheapest form of nut 
protein, especially if purchased in large 
quantities and roasted at home in a slow 
oven. If to be used particularly as a meat 
substitute, a very much better flavor will 
be produced if they are treated as follows : 
Shell the peanuts, scald them with boiling 
water, remove the hulls and dry over night 
on paper. Then roast gently in large 
dripping-pans, containing two or three 
tablespoonfuls of vegetable oil each, stir- 
ring them occasionally. A very little salt 
should be sprinkled over the nuts, but not 
so much as for salted peanuts. If pre- 
pared in this way the peanut meat substi^ 
tute will have a very appetising flavor. 
Betters results are also gained if walnuts, 
almonds, etc., are treated in the same way. 

USING PEANUT BUTTER 

Peanut butter is really one of our best 
conservation foods. At first thought it 
may seem a trifle expensive, but when prop- 
erly used as a butter and meat substitute 
in the balanced meal its use becomes a real 
economy, both from the patriotic stand- 
point and that of the pocket-book. When 
peanut butter is served in the meal, the use 
of other butter, or a substitute can be prac- 
tically eliminated. If it is used in making 
soup, or peanut loaf, meat can be omitted. 

Some mothers feel that peanut butter is 
too ** heavy " to give to their children be- 



Nuts as a Meat Substitute 41 

cause it is a highly concentrated food, but 
if it is combined with some bulky food, like 
war bread, lettuce, fruit, or celery, this ob- 
jection will be overcome and the child will 
not over-eat of it. 

The following menus show how nuts 
may be used to supply the protrin element 
of the meal. 

I 

Imitation Veal Loaf 

Creamed Potatoes. Fresh or Canned Spinach 

Cornmeal Bread Butter or a Substitute 

Cucumber and Cress Salad 

Honey Indian Pudding Top Milk 

Tea or Coffee (adults) 

2 

Nut and Com Loaf Tomato Sauce 

Baked Potatoes Fresh or Canned Peas 

Warm Hominy Muffins Butter or a Substitute 

Rice Cooked in Grape Juice 

Tea or Coffee (adults) 

All measurements are level 
Peanut Sausage 

1} cupfuls ground pea- } teaspoonful pepper 

nuts 1} teaspoonfuls salt 

1} cupfuls cooked li teaspoonfuls sage 

beans, any kind 3 tablespoonf uls 

li cupfuls cooked ground onion 

dried peas i cupful milk 
1} cupfuls stale bread 

crumbs 

Combine the ingredients in the order 
given : let them stand a few minutes, shape 



42 Mrs. Allen's Book of Meat Substitutes 

into flat cakes and brown in vegetable oil. 
Serve with or without Brown Nut Gravy. 

Peanut and Sweet Potato Omelet 

li cupfuls chopped 2 tablespoonfuls pea- 
peanuts nut butter 

3 cupfuls mashed li teaspoonfuls salt 
sweet potato 

Combine the ingredients in the order 
given, beating well. Press into a thin sheet 
in a frying-pan in which two tablespoon- 
fuls of vegetable oil have been heated. 
Cook like an omelet, till brown on the bot- 
tom; then fold over and serve. Creamed 
green peppers are a good accompaniment. 

Peanut and Potato Hash 

1} cupfuls chopped i teaspoonful paprika 

peanuts i cupful milk 

I quart chopped 3 tablespoonfuls vege- 

cooked potatoes table oil 

li teaspoonfuls saU 

Warm the vegetable oil in a f r3ring-pan. 
In the meantime combine the other ingredi- 
ents, pack them into the frying-pan and 
cook gently on the top of the stove, or in 
the oven until browned on the bottom. It 
should take about half an hour. Then fold 
over, slip on to a platter and serve with 
white sauce. 

Heatless Loaf 

li cupfuls ground li cupfuls drained 

peanuts canned tomato 



Nuts as a Meat Substitute 43 

1} cupfuls ground dry 3 teaspoonfuls salt 

bread crumbs 2 teaspoonfuls celery 

li cupfuls boiled salt 

brown rice li teaspoonfuls mus- 

1} cupfuls ground tard 

raw carrots i teaspoonful pepper 

Combine the ingredients in the order 
given, forming them into a loaf. Place in 
an oiled baking-pan and bake forty min- 
utes in an oven at 375 degrees F. Serve 
with, or without. Brown Nut Gravy. 

Peannt Butter Loaf 

1 cupful peanut butter 2 teaspoonfuls poul- 
2i cupfuls brown rice try seasoning 

2} cupfuls soft bread i medium-sized onion, 

crumbs ground 

li cupfuls milk i tablespoonful minced 

2 teaspoonfuls salt parsley 
i teaspoonful pepper 

Combine the ingredients in the order 
^ven, let stand a few moments and pack 
into a well-oiled bread-pan. Bake forty 
minutes in an oven at 375 degrees F. and 
serve with tomato sauce. 

Vnt and Samp Loaf 

li cupfuls chopped 1} teaspoonfuls salt 

nuts, any kind ^ cupful dry bread 

3 cupfuls cooked crumbs 
samp or coarse horn- I egg 

iny I teaspoonful sage 

i teaspoonful pepper 

Combine the ingredients in the order 



44 Mrs. 'AUeWs Book of Meat Substitutes 

given and form into a loaf. Place in a 
well-oiled pan and bake forty minutes in 
an oven at 375 degrees F. Serve with 
Brown Nut Gravy, or tomato, or white 
sauce. 

Lnitatioii Veal Loaf 

2 cupfuls ground 2 eggs 

mixed nuts li teaspoonfuls sage 

2i cupfuls bread i tablespoonful ground 

crumbs onion 

I cupful milk if teaspoonfuls salt 

I cupful tomato juice i teaspoonful pepper 

Combine the ingredients in the order 
given and let stand for half an hour. Then 
shape into a loaf, place in a well-oiled pan 
and bake forty minutes in an oven at 375 
degrees F. 

Nut Steak 

1} cupfuls walnut i cupful milk 

meats, coarsely 3 cupfuls soft bread 

chopped crumbs 

i teaspoonful salt I teaspoonful celery 

I egg salt 

3 tablespoonfuls water 

Roast the walnuts in the oven, then com- 
bine the ingredients in the order given and 
let stand twenty minutes. Pat into a sheet 
half an inch thick, then brown gently in 
vegetable oil on either side. Serve witfi 
Brown Nut Gravy. 



Nuts as a Meat Substitute 45 

Nnt and Cfom Loaf 

I cupful chopped wal- i cupful milk 
nuts or peanuts 2 eggs, beaten 

I cupful canned corn, li teaspoonfuls salt 
or left-over creamed i teaspoon ful pepper 
or stewed dried com One or two hard- 
cooked ^gs 

Combine the ingredients in the order 
given and transfer to a well-oiled pudding- 
dish. Bake gently till firm in the middle, 
let stand a few moments and unmold. 
Serve with a garnish of hard-cooked eggs 
and with white, or tomato, sauce. 

Nut and Kice Cakes 

1 cupful chopped nuts, i teaspoonful onion 
any kind juice 

2 cupfuls cooked i tablespoonful minced 
brown rice parsley, optional 

Salt and pepper to taste 

Combine the ingredients in the order 
given, form into flat cakes, dip in com 
flour, and brown in vegetable oil. Serve 
with Peanut Cream Sauce. 

Nuts and Pearled Barley 

li cupfuls pearled i cupful butter or a 
barley good margarine 

li cupfuls seeded 3 tablespoonfuls 
raisins chopped candied, 

I cupful pecan or wal- or preserved gin- 
nut meats ger 



46 Mrs, Alien's Book of Meat Substitutes 

Boil the barley in salted water till almost 
done. Then combine the nuts, raisins and 
ginger with the butter substitute and cook 
fiiem together until the raisins are some- 
what swollen. Put the two mixtures to- 
gether in a baking-dish, cover and bsdce 
gently for a half hour. Serve with butter 
or top milk. 

Green Peppers Stuffed with ITnts 

6 medium-sized green { cupful chopped nut 
peppers meats, any kind 

li cupfuls cooked i tablespoonful pea- 

hominy nut butter 

I cupful Brown Nut " Platter " Gravy 

Parboil the peppers, then cut them in 
halves lengthwise and remove the seeds and 
cores. Combine the hominy, peanut butter 
and the nut-meats, saving out three table- 
spoonfuls. If the mixture is not suffi- 
ciently moist, add a little milk or chili 
sauce, and if the flavor is liked, stir in a 
minced onion. Fill the pepper halves with 
tills mixture, place on a fireproof platter, 
set in a moderate oven and after five min- 
utes, baste with the ** platter gravy." Do 
this occasionally during the baking which 
will take about thirty minutes. For serv- 
ing, sprinkle with the reserved nut meats. 

Creamed CliestiLXLts 

1 quart chestnuts 2 tablespoonfuls 

2 tablespoonfuls minced green pepper 
minced onion 2 cupfuls white sauce 

I tablespoonful butter or margarine 



Nuts as a Meat Substitute 47 

Boil the chestnuts for twenty minutes in 
the shells, then remove them with the inner 
skins. Cook the pepper and onion a few 
moments in the butter, then add the chest- 
nuts. After another moment or two put 
in the white sauce which should be very 
well-seasoned, and serve the whole in a 
border of mashed potatoes, boiled brown 
rice, or boiled samp. 

Chestnuts in Brown Oravy 

Follow the recipe for Creamed Chestnuts 
substituting Brown Nut Gravy for the 
cream sauce. Serve if desired in a border 
of mashed sweet potato very well seasoned. 

B^ut and Bread Balls 

li cupfuls coarsely i teaspoonful salt 

chopped wahiut i teaspoonful paprika 

meats, roasted i egg 

1} cupfuls dry bread i cupful celery, 
crumbs minced 

li cupfuls milk 

Combine the ingredients in the order 
given and let stand for twenty minutes. 
Then make them into balls, roll in extra 
dry crumbs, dip in an egg beaten and diluted 
with a half cupful of milk or water, roll 
again in crumbs and fry in deep vegetable 
fat, hot enough to brown a bit of bread in 
forty seconds. Or instead of frying them 
in deep fat, bake in the oven. In this case, 
mix the second coating of bread crumbs 



48 Mrs. AUen's Book of Meat Substitutes 

with vegetable oil using two tablespoonfuls 
to a cupful of crumbs, roll the balls in it 
and bake them in a quick oven. 

Nut Cutlets 

li cupfuls chopped, i tablespoonful hot 

roasted nuts, any milk 

kind 2 tablespoonfuls pea- 
2 cupfuls cooked, nut butter 

sifted winter squash i egg 

i cupful fine dry i teaspoonful salt 

bread crumbs 

The squash should be well-seasoned. 
Combine the ingredients in the order given 
and let stand a half hour. If the mixture 
is too soft add more crumbs. Shape into 
cutlets, dip them in milk and then in equal 
parts of fine dry bread crumbs and ground 
nut meats. Fry in deep vegetable fat hot 
enough to brown a bit of bread in forty 
counts, or bake in a very hot oven till 
brown. Serve with Brown Nut Gravy, or 
Green Pepper Cream Sauce. 

Nut and Banana Balls 

i cupful chopped wal- i} cupfuls ripe mashed 

nut meats bananas 

i) cupfuls dry bread i teaspoonful salt 
crumbs i cupful chopped rais- 

ins 
} cupful water 

Combine the ingredients in the order 
given and let them stand for fifteen min- 
utes. Then shape by small teaspoonfuls 



Nuts as a Meat Substitute 49 

into balls, egg and crumb them as for cro- 
quettes, and fry in deep vegetable fat, hot 
enough to brown a bit of bread in forty 
counts, or shape into small flat cakes, dip 
in fine dry crumbs and brown on a griddle. 
Serve in a meal otherwise deficient in pro- 
tein, as an accompaniment to a salad of 
dressed lettuce and pineapple, or lettuce and 
celery, or as a dessert course with a lemon 
or orange sauce flavored with jelly or 
honey. 

Braised Chestnuts with Celery ^ 

3 cupfuls chestnuts 2 tablespoonfuls vege- 
3 cupfuls diced celery table oil 

Meatless Stock 

Boil the chestnuts for fifteen minutes, 
then remove the shells and inner skins. 
Brown the chestnuts and celery together in 
the vegetable oil, then add meatless stock 
to barely cover and simmer till the celery 
is tender. Serve with boiled brown rice, 
boiled samp, or buttered lye hominy. 

RE-INFORCING SALADS WITH NUTS 

Nuts may be added either to vegetable 
or fruit salads, but if this is done they 
should be treated as part of the protein of 
the meal, as otherwise their introduction is 
superfluous both from the standpoint of 
economy and dietetics. When they are 
used, a French-or-boiled dressing should be 
served with the salad rather than mayon- 



so Mrs, Allen's Book of Meat Substitutes 

naise, because of the amount of fat present 
in the nuts. It is almost safe to say that 
nuts of pronounced flavor, as peanuts and 
walnuts, may be introduced into potato and 
other vegetable salads, while nuts of dain- 
tier taste, as pecans and almonds, are better 
suited to fruit salads. Boiled and chilled 
chestnuts may be used very happily with 
any plain green salad, with celery, cooked 
Brussels sprouts, yellow tomatoes, sliced 
oranges, or cooked raisins, or a combina- 
tion of apples and celery. 

Peanut and Cabbage Salad 

I cupful chopped French Dressing 

peanuts Eggless mayonnaise 

3 cupfuls shredded Lettuce or cress 
cabbage 

Combine the cabbage with three table- 
spoonfuls of French Dressing. Stir in the 
peanuts, arrange in a bowl lined with let- 
tuce and garnish the top with mayonnaise 
which has been lightly sprinkled with a few 
whole peanuts. 

Walnut, Cottage Cheese and Date Salad 

I cupful chopped wal- Cream or top milk to 

nut meats moisten 

li cupfuls cottage Halved, stoned dates 

cheese Lettuce 

Salt and paprika to French Dressing made 

taste with lemon juice 

Combine the nuts and Qottage cheese, 



Nuts OS a Meat Substitute 51 

season to taste with salt and paprika and 
moisten with the cream so that it can be 
handled. Pack into little molds, or after- 
dinner coffee cups which have been spar- 
ingly rubbed with salad oil and let stand 
till very cold. Unmold on the lettuce, gar- 
nish with dates and serve French dressing^ 

Sweet Potato and Peannt Salad 

I cupful coarsely 2 tablespoon fuls pea- 

chopped peanuts nut butter 

2} cupfuls diced, J cupful French 

cooked sweet potato Dressing 

I cupful diced celery Lettuce 

i cupful chopped raisins 

Blend the dressing with the peanut butter 
and add half to the potato; let stand thirty 
minutes in a cold place and then add the 
peanuts and celery. In the meantime soak 
the raisins in the remaining French Dress- 
ing; stir this mixture into the potato, ar- 
range in a bowl lined with the lettuce and 
serve. 



THE LEGUMES AS MEAT 
SUBSTITUTES 

When one thinks of using the legumes, 
the first dish that suggests itself is liable to 
be baked beans ! But as we are being asked 
to save pork, along with the other meats, the 
question arises, "What shall we use for 
seasoning?" A little sage, or mixed 
poultry seasoning, together with a half cup- 
ful of home-rendered beef fat, or com-or- 
cottonseed oil to a pound of beans will make 
the dish appetising and solve the problem. 
Soy beans need no fat for seasoning. 

The Government is asking us especially 
to use freely pinto and soy beans. Gen- 
erally speakmg all beans may be used in- 
terchangeably, if proper care is taken to 
soak them, and boil them up with soda. 
Pinto beans cook more quickly than any 
other kind; soy beans take longer. Cow 
peas, a variety of bean, are grown in about 
twenty species in this country, but of them 
the black-eyed bean is about the best known. 
They are all adaptable in many ways and 
are inexpensive. Lentils, although a meat 
substitute, are not a practical food at this 
time because of the restrictions on ship- 
ping. 

52 



The Legumes as Meat Substitutes 53 

To many, the problem of nutritious 
meatless soup stocks has been very difficult 
to solve. But if the dried bean, such as 
the pinto, or kidney bean, is used as a 
basis for brown stock, and pea beans or 
limas are used for white stock, this problem 
is easily solved. Such stock may also be 
used in the making of gravies and escallops ; 
anywhere in fact that plain meat-stock may 
be used. 

The following menus show how legumes 
may be introduced into the meal to supply 
the protein element. 



Vegetable Soup 
Meatless Chili Con Carne Boiled Brown Rice 

Dressed Lettuce 
Sweet Milk Com Bread Butter or a Substitute 

Maple Apple Pie 
Coffee or Tea (adults) 



2 

Honey Bean Pot 

Steamed Commeal Bread Butter or a Substitute 

Tomato Celery and Lettuce Salad 

Caramel Tapioca Top Milk 

Coffee or Tea (adults) 

All measurements are level 
Brown Meatless Soup Stock 

I cupful pinto, or i teaspoonful celery 

kidney beans seed 



54 Mrs. Allen's Book of Meat Substitutes 

1 large onion, sliced i teaspoonful pickle 

2 whole potatoes spice 

I sprig parsley 3 teaspoonfuls salt 

I bay leaf 6 cupfuls boiling 

water 

Wash the beans thoroughly and place 
them in a sauce-pan with the potato, onion, 
parsley, salt and the spices tied in a bit of 
cheese-cloth. Add the water and boil very 
gently for an hour and a half without stir- 
ring lest the stock be made cloudy. Then 
strain without mashing the vegetables. Use 
the stock in any recipe calling for Brown 
Meat-Stock, cook the beans a little longer 
and use them as a basis for a vegetable 
escallop, or bean hash. 

White Meatless Stock 

Substitute lima beans for the beans in 
the preceding recipe and proceed as di- 
rected. 

Honey Bean Pot 

1 pint pea, or pinto 2 teaspoonfuls salt 
beans i teaspoonful pepper 

2 sliced onions i cupful honey 
i cupful vegetable 4 sliced apples 

oil 

Soak the beans over night, drain and 
rinse, add a pinch of baking soda and boil 
in water to cover until the skins are some- 
what loosened. Discard the cooking water 
and put the beans in a casserole in the bot- 
tom of which has been placed the onion, oil, 



The Legumes as Meat Substitutes 55 

seasonings and honey. Barely cover with 
boiling water and cook with the lid on till 
the beans are soft, about two and a half 
hours in an oven at 300 degrees F. Then 
place the sliced apples over the top and cook 
uncovered until the apples are brown and 
tender. 

Pinto Beans with Oats 

i^ cupfuls pinto beans li teaspoonfuls salt 

I cupful rolled oats i teaspoonful pepper 

i teaspoonful baking i cupful stewed to- 

soda mato, optional 

I tablespoonful mo- 2 tablespoonfuls but- 

lasses ter substitute 

Soak the beans over night, drain, cover 
with boiling water, add the soda and let 
them boil up thoroughly. Then drain 
again, mix with the other ingredients in a 
well-oiled casserole, cover and bake about 
two hours in an oven at 300 degrees F. 

lima Beans with Bice 

I pound dried lima i cupful butter sub- 
beans stitute 

I cupful sliced onions 2 teaspoonfuls salt 

B tablespoonful mo- i teaspoonful pepper 

lasses i cupful brown rice 

Soak the beans over night, and in the 
morning boil them up with a few grains of 
soda and discard the water. Then brown 
the onions in the fat and add them with the 
remaining ingredients to the beans, pour in 
boiling water barely to cover and simmer 
till the beans are tender. 






56 Mrs. Allen's Book of Meat Substitutes 
Beans with Carrot Sauce 



3 cupfuls plain cooked 
beans, any kind 

li cupfuls ground raw 
carrots 

2 medium-sized 
onions, ground 



I green pepper, 
ground 

1 teaspoonful salt 
li cupfuls water 

2 tablespoonfuls pea- 
nut butter 



Combine the ingredients in the order 
given, in the casserole in which they are to 
be baked. Cover and bake gently till the 
carrots are done, about forty-five minutes, 
then uncover and brown. 

Finito Beans with Barley 

I cupful pinto beans i cupful peanut bttt- 

1 cupful barley ter 

2 teaspoonf uls salt Vegetable soup stock 

Soak the beans over night in water to 
cover, drain and scald them with a few 
grains of soda. Then drain again and com- 
bine with the barley, salt and peanut butter. 
Cover with water and boil till the beans and 
barley are tender, about an hour and a quar- 
ter, using water in which vegetables have 
been boiled, as carrots, celery and the like. 

Vegetable Hamburg Stealc 

li cupfuls dry bread 

crumbs 
li teaspoonfuls cel- 
ery salt 
li teaspoonfuls salt 
i teaspoonful pepper 
4 tablespoonfuls com 
flour 



I cupful cooked kid- 
ney beans 

I cupful cooked lima 
beans 

I cupful cooked dried 
peas 

I cupful ground raw 
carrots 



The Legumes as Meat "Silbshtutes 57 

3 tablespoonfuls 2i tablespoon fuls 

ground onion vegetable oil 

The dried vegetables should be cooked 
soft. Combine them with the other in- 
gredients in the order given, form into flat 
cakes, dip them in com flour and brown 
gently on a griddle, in vegetable oil. Serve 
with Brown Nut Gravy, or tomato sauce. 

Bean Catlets 

li cupfuls lima or i teaspoonful pepper 

pinto beans i cupful cooked horn- 

J cupful fine dry iny or rice 

bread crumbs I egg 

i teaspoonful salt Milk 

1 teaspoonful celery 
salt 

Soak the beans over night, drain them, 
add water to cover and a little soda and 
cook till soft. Mash the beans, add the 
remaining ingredients with enough milk to 
make the mixture moist. Shape into cut- 
lets, roll in fine dry bread crumbs which 
have been mixed with two tablespoonfuls of 
vegetable oil to the cup, bake in a hot oven 
and serve with or without tomato sauce, or 
creamed green peppers. 

Soy Bean Chop Sney 

2 cupfuls cooked soy celery 

beans 3 chopped green pep- 
6 medium-sized pers 

onions, chopped li teaspoonfuls mo- 
li cupfuls chopped lasses 



S8 Mrs. Allen's Book of Meat Substitutes 

I tablespoonful vege- Salt to taste 

table oil i cupful uncoated 

1 pint Meatless Brown rice 
Soup Stock 

Combine the raw vegetables, molasses and 
oil, and cook very gently for ten minutes. 
Add the stock and simmer till the vegetables 
are tender and the stock is largely evapor- 
ated. Then add the beans. In the mean- 
time boil the rice and serve it as an accom- 
paniment to the suey mixture. 

Soy Beans with Brown Bice or Barley 

i^ cupfuls soy beans i cupful peanut but- 
i tablespoonful salt ter 

2 onions, optional li cupfuls brown rice 

or pearled barley 

Soak the beans over night. In the morn- 
ing, drain and scald with a few grains of 
soda. Drain again, cover with boiling 
water, add the remaining ingredients ex- 
cept the rice, and simmer till the beans are 
almost tender, about four hours. The 
beans should not boil hard as this toughens 
the protein. Then add the rice and finish 
cooking. The water should be allowed to 
cook away so that when the dish is finished 
the mixture will be thick. Serve with chili 
sauce, or any relish. 

Soy Bean and Eice ^' Omelet " 

Add to two or three cupfuls of left-over 
soy beans cooked with rice, some minced 



The Legumes as Meat Substitutes 59 

CTeen pepper. Spread the mixture in a 
f r3dng-pan containing a little hot vegetable 
oil, brown evenly, fold over and serve. 

Idma or Pinto Beans Scalloped with Celery 

2 cupfuls cooked lima 2 tablespoonfuls rye 

or pinto beans flour 

2 cupfuls cooked samp 2 tablespoonfuls but- 

or hulled com ter substitute 

2 cupfuls diced celery 3 tablespoonfuls 
I teaspoonful salt grated cheese 

1 cupful milk 

Cook the celery till nearly tender in a 
pint of water, with or without a slice of 
onion. The water should be reduced to a 
cupful. Combine this celery liquor with 
the milk. Melt the butter substitute, stir 
in the flour, then add the milk, salt and 
pepper as in making any sauce. In the 
meantime oil a casserole, put in alternating 
layers of beans, samp and celery and pour 
in the sauce. Sprinkle the cheese over the 
top and bake until brown and thoroughly 
hot, about thirty minutes. 

Xeaflefls Chili Con Came 

4 cupfuls cooked kid- i clove garlic, 
ney beans minced 

2 pods dried chili pep- l cupful warm water 
pers I cupful stewed to- 

3 tablespoonfuls but- mato 

ter substitute ^ i minced green pep- 
3 tablespoonfuls^ chili per, optional 

powder Salt to taste 

3 tablespoonfuls rye Boiled uncoated or 

flour brown rice 



6o Mrs. AHefis Book of Meat Substitutes 

Soak the peppers in the warm water till 
they are soft. Then scrape out the pulp 
into the water and discard the skins. Add 
the tomato to the water, together with the 
garlic and green pepper and boil it for fif- 
teen minutes. Then add the beans and 
thicken the mixture with the flour and chili 
powder, blended with the butter substitute. 
Boil for three minutes, pour over the rice 
and serve. 

Baked Bean Loaf 

3 cupfuls cold baked i cupful dry bread 

beans, any kind crumbs 

2 small onions, ground Salt and pepper to 

taste 

Combine the ingredients in the order 
given, form into a loaf, place in a well-oiled 
pan and bake in a hot oven at 375 degrees 
F. for thirty minutes. Serve with tomato 
sauce. 

Baked Bean and Cheese Loaf 

Observe the proportions given in the pre- 
ceding recipe, adding a cupful of grated 
dairy cheese, then bake as directed. 

Soy Bean Hash 

I pint cooked soy 2 tablespoonfuls vege- 
beans table oil 

1 pint finely chopped, i tablespoonful pea- 
cooked potato nut butter 

2 minced onions li teaspoonfuls salt 

i teaspoon ful pepper 



The Legumes as Meat Substitutes 6i 

Cook the onions till tender in a table- 
spoonful of vegetable oil. Then add the 
onions together with the peanut butter and 
seasonings to the beans and potatoes. If 
the mixture is not so moist as for ordinary 
hash add a little milk or Meatless Brown 
Stock. Heat the remaining oil in a frying- 
pan, pack in the hash, brown gently, fold 
over and serve with or without tomato 
sauce, home-made catchup, or white sauce. 
Or pack the hash into a shallow, well-oiled 
fireproof platter and bake it in the oven. 

Dried Pea Boast 

I pint cooked, dried i cupful mashed po- 

peas, any kind tato 

I cupful commed 2 teaspoonfuls salt 

mush I teaspoonful poultry 

I ground onion seasoning 

I ground green pep- i teaspoonful pepper 

per i cupful chopped 

walnuts 

Combine the ingredients in the order 
given, pack into a well-oiled bread-pan and 
bake forty minutes in an oven at 375 de- 
grees F. 

Baked Split Peas, Clieefle and Conuneal 

I cupful split peas i cupful commeal 

4 cupfuls boiling 4 teaspoonfuls salt 

water f cupful grated cheese 

i teaspoonful paprika 

Add the peas to the boiling water and 
cook them until soft. Then add the sea- 



^ I 



62 Mrs. Allen's Book of Meat Substitutes 

sonings and gradually sift in the cornmeal. 
Let it cook gently till very thick. Then oil 
a rather shallow baking-dish. Add the 
cheese to the mixture, reserving three table- 
spoonfuls, pour it into the dish, sprinkle 
over with the cheese and bake till brown 
in an oven at 375 degrees F. Cottage 
cheese may be substituted if desired. 

Dried Pea and Samp Chowder 

1 cupful split peas 2 teaspoonfuls salt 

i cupful samp or i teaspoonful pepper 

coarse hominy 4 sliced carrots 

2j quarts water 4 sliced onions 

2 teaspoonfuls celery 2 tablespoonf uls pea- 
salt nut butter 

Wash the peas and samp thoroughly, and 
put them on to cook in the water which 
should be boiling, together with the season- 
ings. After forty-five minutes, add the re- 
maining ingredients and cook the whole 
mixture slowly until both peas and samp 
are tender, about two hours. 

Soy Bean Sonp 

2 cupfuls cooked soy Salt and pepper to 

beans taste 

2 cupfuls stewed to- I tablespoonful com- 

matoes syrup 

2 onions I tablespoonful rye 

I quart water or corn flour 
I tablespoonful butter substitute 

Put the soy beans and onions through the 
food chopper, then combine all except the 



The Legumes as Meat Substitutes 63 

last two ingredients, simmer for forty min- 
utes and thicken with the flour mixed with 
the butter substitute. 

Celery and Bean Soup 

i cupful pinto or kid- 2 teaspoonf uls salt 

ney beans i teaspooonful pepper 

5 cupfuls water i pint milk 

2 cupfuls chopped eel- 2 tablespoonfuls rye 

ery leaves flour 

I chopped onion, op- i tablespoonful but- 

tional ter substitute 
i teaspoonful brown 

sugar 

Wash the beans, add them with the celery 
to the water and seasonings and boil gently 
till the beans are soft, about an hour and 
a quarter. Then rub through a sieve, add 
the milk and thicken with the flour and the 
butter substitute blended. 

Baked Bean Salad 

Season any kind of left-over baked beans 
with a little chili sauce and French dressing 
and pack them into small molds or after- 
dinner coffee cups lightly rubbed with salad 
oil. Chill and unmold on a bed of shredded 
cabbage which has been lightly mixed with 
a little chow-chow, or picalilli. Garnish 
with lettuce or parsley, if convenient. 

Bean and Celery Salad 

2i cupfuls cooked li cupfuls diced 

pinto or kidney celery 

beans Qiili Salad Dressing 

Lettuce or cress 



64 Mrs. AUeWs Book of Meat Substitutes 

Combine the beans and celery with salad 
dressing to moisten, transfer to a bowl 
lined with the salad green and serve. 

Lima Bean Salad with Carrots 

2 cupfuls cooked lima i cupful minced 

beans green pepper 

I cupful thinly French Dressing 

sliced, cooked car- Lettuce or romaine 
rots 

Combine the beans, carrots and ^een 
pepper with French Dressing to moisten, 
and chill. Arrange in a bowl lined with the 
salad green. Sliced sweet pickles make an 
attractive garnish. 



FISH AS A MEAT SUBSTITUTE 

Fish is one of the foods we are being 
asked to use freely during the time of con- 
servation, because it is a product more or 
less peri^able and cannot be easily shipped 
to our troops and our Allies. As a nation 
w6 do not prepare fish well, depending 
largely on the frying-pan as a medium. 
However, to fry fish continually is unpa- 
triotic, as we must conserve fats, so we 
should substitute boiling, broiling or bak- 
ing. Fish cooked in any of these three 
ways is a revelation in flavor. If fish is to 
be browned it should be in vegetable fat. 

Generally, fat fish, like mackerel, salmon, 
sable fish, tuna, etc., are better adapted to 
baking, while the drier fish, as halibut, cod 
and tue, are well-suited to boiling or broil- 
ing. 

The seasoning of fish has much to do 
with the preparation of a successful dish. 
Bay leaves and a little lemon juice, a touch 
of onion and a few shreds of green pepper, 
a little minced pickle spice or finely minced 
herbs, will go a long way towards making 
delicious a dish that might otherwise be 
disliked. 

As for the economy of using fish, it is so 

65 



66 Mrs, Allen's Book of Meat Substitutes 

?uickly cooked that it may be classed as a 
uel-saver; moreover there is very little 
waste, as it is all edible except the skin and 
bones, which may be made into fish soup- 
stock, and used as a basis for a cream soup, 
bisque, or chowder. 

The following menus show how fish can 
be used to supply the protein element in the 
meal. 

I 

Salmon or Grajrfish Loaf Green Pepper Sauce 
Mashed Potatoes Canned or Fresh String Beans 
Rice Bread Butter or a Substitute 

Celery- 
Fruit and Oat Pudding 
Coffee or Tea (adults) 



Oyster Chowder 
Rye Rolls Butter or a Substitute 

Cottage Cheese and Tomato Salad 

Stewed Dried Strawberries or Pears 

Tea (adults) 

All measurements are level 
Fish Soup Stock 

Skin and bones from 2 li teaspoonfuls salt 

pounds fresh fish i teaspoonful pepper 

I quart water ^ 2 teaspoonfuls celery 

I small onion, minced, salt 

optional i small carrot, minced 

Add the water to the fish bones and skin, 
with the onion, carrot and seasonings, and 
simmer gently until the fish drops from the 
bones, about twenty-five minutes. Then 
strain and from the residue pick out the bits 



Fish as a Meat Substitute 67 

of fish from the skin and bones and return 
them to the stock, if desired. This may be 
used as a basis for a fish chowder, fish 
bisque, a fish and tomato soup, or a fish and 
vegetable soup. 

Haddock, Cod, or Tile Fish in Bamekins 

1 pound haddock, cod, i tablespoonful onion 
or tile fish juice, optional 

2 tablespoonfuls but- i cupful milk 

ter substitute i cupful dry bread 

2 tablespoonfuls rye crumbs, mixed with 

or barley flour i tablespoonful but- 

ter substitute melted 

Boil the fish in a pint of salted water, 
then drain oflF the liquor. There should be 
one and a fourth cupfuls left. Add this to 
the milk, thicken the mixture with the flour 
mixed with the butter substitute, add the 
onion juice and season further with celery 
salt if desired. Pick the fish from the skin 
and bones. Add it to the sauce and trans- 
fer to good-sized ramekins. Cover with the 
crumbs and bake. 

Salmon or Orayfish loaf 

I large can salmon or i eg^ 
grayfish i onion, minced 

I scant cupful dried i teaspoonful paprika 
bread crumbs } cupful milk 

Salt to taste 

Combine the ingredients in the order 
given. Pack into a well-oiled bread-pan 
and bake for twenty-five minutes. Unmold 



68 Mrs. AUen*s Book of Meat Substitutes 

and serve with, or without, white-tomato- 
green-pepper-or-egg sauce. 

rish and Potato Pie 

2i cupfuls cooked, 2 cupfuls well-sea- 
sliced potato soned white sauce 

xi cupfuls cooked, i cupful bread crumbs 
left-over, white- mixed with 

fleshed fish, or an- a tablespoonfuls but- 
cooked small clams ter substitute 
or oysters 

Oil a baking-dish. Put in a layer of po- 
tato, then one of fish and. one of sauce, al- 
ternating in this way till all is used. Cover 
with the crumbs and bake for twenty-five to 
thirty minutes, or until browned, in an oven 
at 375 degrees F. 

Savory Cteamed Tish 

{cupful coarsely 3 sliced onions 

flaked, cooked sal- 2 tablespoonfuls but- 
mon, tuna, or left- ter substitute 

over firm-fleshed 2 tablespoonfuls bar- 
fish ley or rye flour 

3 hard-cooked eggs, 2 cupfuls milk 

sliced i teaspoonful pepper 

I large green pepper, i teaspoonful salt 
minced 

Add the peppers and onions to the butter 
substitute, and cook gently till they are 
tender. Then stir in the flour, and when 
slightly browned pour in the milk. Add 
the salt and pepper and when the mixture 
boils turn in the fish and ^s coarsley 
chopped. When the mixture is re-heated 



Fish (MS a Meat Substitute 69 

pour it over four cupfuls of boiled brown 
rice, samp, or coarse hominy. Set in the 
oven for a moment or two and serve. 

Casserole of Salt Codfish 

3 cupfuls well-sea- 2 pimentoes, op- 

soned mashed potato tional 

2 cuptuls flaked salt i cupful white sauce 

codfish 

Freshen the codfish for half an hour, then 
boil it for twenty minutes and Hake it. Add 
it to the white sauce, together with the 
pimentoes. Line a well-oiled casserole 
with mashed potato. Pour the fish mixture 
in the center, top with a ** crust " of mashed 
potato, brush this lightly with a little melted 
butter substitute and brown in a hot oven. 
This will take about thirty minutes. A few 
left'-over cooked peas or string beans may 
be added to the fish mixture if desired. 

Finnan Haddie with Hominy or Sice 

Follow the directions given in the pre- 
ceding recipe, substituting finnan haddie for 
the ssdt fish, and cooked hominy or rice for 
the mashed potato. 

Fish Fatties 

1 pound canned sal- Few grains mustard 
mon, tuna, or gr i teaspoonful salt 
fish or i teaspoonful pepper 

2 cupfuls left-over, 2 tablespoonfuls milk 
cooked fish mixed or tomato juice 
with a little white i tablespoonful minced 
sauce or fish liquor onion 



70 Mrs. Allen's Book of Meat Substitutes 

1 egg Dried bread crumbs to 
i teaspoonful lemon thicken 

juice 

Combine the ingredients in the order 
given, adding enough bread crums so that 
the mixture can be easily handled. Form 
into flat cakes and brown on a hot griddle, 
or bake in a well-oiled dripping-pan in a hot 
oven, turning them when brown on one side. 
Serve with white, egg, green pepper, or to- 
mato sauced 

Fish Cliowder 

f pound haddock or i quart milk 

codfish Dry tread crumbs 

i cupful sliced onion Salt and pepper to 

2 cupfuls sliced pota- taste 

toes i cupful left-over 

3 tablespoonfuls but- corn, canned, or 
ter substitute dried and stewed 

Boil the fish in a quart of salted water; 
remove it, saving the liquor. Gently cook 
the onions in the butter substitute ; add them 
with the potatoes to the fish liquor and cook 
slowly till the potatoes are done. Then add 
the fish, milk and com, boil three minutes, 
thicken with the dry bread crumbs and 
season to taste with salt and pepper. 

Oyster Chowder 

Substitute a pint of quartered oysters and 
their liquor for the fish in the preceding 
recipe and proceed as directed. A little 
mace may act as further seasoning. 



Fish as a Meat Substitute Ji 

Hock Scallops 

li pounds halibut, cod, i teaspoonful salt 
or haddock Few grains pepper 

1 cupful milk Fine dry bread crumbs 

2 tablespoonfuls vege- 
table oil 

Cut the fish with the scissors into inch 
pieces and wash them in the milk. Then 
drain and let stand for an hour in the oil 
mixed with the seasonings. Roll in the 
sifted crumbs, transfer to a well-oiled pan 
and bake for ten minutes in an oven at 375 
degrees F., or until brown. Use the milk 
as a basis for a white sauce to serve with 
the fish. The bones and skins should be 
reserved for Fish Soup-Stock. 

Browned Eels with Braised Onions 

I eel, about i pound i cupful vegetable 
12 medium-sized cooking fat 

onions Salt and pepper 

I minced green pepper, optional 

Slice the onions and pepper and put them 
on to cook very gently in the fat, adding a 
little water or fish stock to keep them from 
sticking. In the meantime wash, skin and 
dry the eel and cut it in pieces about two 
inches long. Dip them in a little milk and 
water mixed, dust with salt and pepper and 
then in fine dry bread crumbs and brown. 
When the onions are done, put them on a 
platter, dispose the browned eel over them 
and serve with mashed potatoes, boiled samp 
or boiled brown rice. 



72 Mrs. AUeWs Book of Meat Substitutes 
Oyster and Potato Cakes 

3 cupf uls well-sea- i pint oysters 

soned mashed po- i tablespoonful 

tatoes chopped parsl^ 

1 egg yolk Nutmeg 

Qiop the oysters after draining them 
from their liquor. Add them with the other 
ingredients to the potato which should be 
well-seasoned. Form into thin flat cakes, 
dip in com flour, and brown on a griddle in 
vegetable oil^ using the oyster liquor with 
additional milk to make a white sauce to 
serve with them. 

If desired the mixture may be packed in 
a well-oiled bread-pan and baked as a loaf 
for thirty minutes in a hot oven. 

Baked Sable Fish in Kilk 

2 pounds sliced sable Rye flour 

fish, cut an inch i teaspoonful minced 
thick parsely 

2 minced onions Ssdt and pepper 

Dust the fish with salt and pepper, and 
then with the flour and transfer it to a fire- 
proof platter. Cover it with two-thirds 
milk to one part of water, and bake till ten- 
der in a hot oven at 375 d^;rees F., — about 
thirty minutes. 

Baked Sea Trout^ God or Haddock with 
Tomato Dressing 

Prepare the fish as usual for baking and 
fill sparingly with the following dressing : — 



Milk as a Meat Substitute 73 

Bring one cupful of well-seasoned canned 
tomatoes to boiling-point, together with one 
finely minced onion and one teaspoonf ul of 
poultry seasoning. Then stir in one cupful 
of fine dried bread crumbs and let cook to- 
gether to form a paste. 

Dust the fish with salt and pepper, lay it 
in a dripping-pan and baste it with a cupful 
of extra, seasoned canned tomatoes while 
baking. Allow forty minutes for a three- 
pound fish. Put any extra dressing in 
small cups, bake it and serve as a garnish 
to the fish. 



MEAT SUBSTITUTES WITH A 

CEREAL OR VEGETABLE 

FOUNDATION 

Meat substitutes with a cereal or vegeta- 
ble foundation, may be used in the follow- 
ing manner to supply the protein element 
of the meal. 

Dried Vegetable Soup 

Cornmeal Nut Scrapple 

Barley Biscuits Butter or a Substitute 

Celery or Cold Slaw 

Steamed Marmalade Pudding Foamy Sauce 

Tea (adults) 

2 

Steamed StufiFed Cabbage Tomato Sauce 
Rye Bread and Butter or a Substitute 
Sliced Cucumbers or Cucumber Pickles 
Steamed Apricot or Peach Dumplings 

Peach Sauce 
Tea (adults) 

All measurements are level 

Polenta 

Prepare a quart of cornmeal mush, using 
four cupfuls of boiling, salted water, and 
stirring into it a cupful and a half of corn- 
meal. Cook till the mixture is thick and 

74 



A Cereal or Vegetable Foundation 75 

transfer to a bread-pan which has been 
lightly oiled. Let the mixture stand for fif- 
teen minutes and then bake it in a hot oven 
for a few minutes. Unmold on a platter. 
Strew thickly with grated cheese and serve 
with stewed tomatoes cooked until thick, 
with a white sauce containing onions and 
green peppers, with creamed, hard-cooked 
eggs or mushrooms in Brown Nut Gravy. 

Commeal Nut Scrapple 

Prepare commeal mush, according to the 
directions given for Polenta, and stir into 
it one and a half cupf uls of coarsely chopped 
peanuts or other nuts. Let the mixture 
stiffen in a br(ead-i)an which has been rinsed 
with cold water. Then cut in slices one- 
half inch thick. Dip them in com flour 
and brown in vegetable oil. 

Crommeal Fiflh Scrapple 

Follow the directions for Commeal Nut 
Scrapple, substituting boiled and well- 
drained salt codfish for the peanuts. 

Hominy Fish Balls 

3 cupfuls cooked hom- li teaspoonfuls onion 
iny juice, optional 

I cupful minced i teaspoonful minced 
cooked fish, any kind parsley, optional 

I egg yolk Salt and pepper to 

I egg white taste 

Combine the ingredients and form the 



y6 Mrs. Allen's Book of Meat SubsHtuies 

mixture by small tablespoonfuls into balls. 
Roll these in com flour and then in the egg 
white slightly beaten^ and mixed with a 
half-cupful of milk. Then roll in fine dry 
bread crumbs. Fry in deep vegetable fat, 
hot enough to brown a bit of bread in forty 
cotmts. Serve with tomato-or-white sauce. 

Baked Vegetable UtibIl 

2 cupfuls thick com- 2 minced onions 

meal mush i cupful grated dairy 

2 cupfuls sliced cooked cheese 

potato li cupfuls milk 

I cupful sliced cooked 
carrots 

Oil a baking-dish and put the mush in the 
bottom. Sprinkle with a little cheese, put 
on a layer of potatoes, then the carrots and 
a little onion, sprinkling in the cheese oc- 
casionally, and making it the last layer. 
Pour in the milk which has been seasoned 
with a teaspoonful of salt and one-fourth 
teaspoonf ul of pepper, and bake for an hour 
in an oven at 375 degrees F. 

Commeal or Hominy Timbales 

Pack thick commeal or hominy mush into 
timbale molds or small cups which have 
been slightly oiled. When cold and firm 
unmold on a deep fireproof platter and 
surround with two cupfuls of white sauce 
to six small timbales. Cover thickly with 
grated dairy cheese and bake in an oven 



A Cereal or Vegetable Foundation 77 

until the cheese is browned. If desired, 
chopped nut-meats may be added to the 
mush. 

Boiled Potatoes with Peanut Sanoe 

Boil two small potatoes for each person 
to be served, saving the water for the mak- 
ing of soups. Pour over the drained pota- 
toes a sauce made as follows : 3 table- 
spoonfuls butter substitute, preferably a 
good margarine, browned together with two 
tablespoonfuls of peanut butter, a little pa- 
prika and one-half cupful of chopped pea- 
nuts. Pour over the potatoes and serve. 

Potato and Cheese Casserole 

5 cupfuls well-sea- i} cupfuls diced dairy 
soned mashed po- cheese 

tato I egg 

Thoroughly oil a two-quart casserole and 
line it with three cupfuls of the mashed 
potato. Mix together the cheese and egg, 
fill in the hollow with it and heap the re- 
maining potato over it. Brush lightly with 
milk and bake uncovered in a hot oven for 
thirty minutes. The mixture should be 
heaped up in the center. 

Xnshroom Hash 

i pound mushrooms i tablespoonful minced 
1} cupfuls chopped, parsley, optional 

cooked potatoes Salt and pepper to 

Few grains mace taste 

Vegetable oil 



78 Mrs. AUen's Book of Meat Substitutes 

Peel the mushrooms and chop them, 
stems and caps. Cook gently in a little 
butter substitute for a few minutes, then 
combine with the potato, season, moisten 
with milk if necessary, and cook as any hash 
in a little vegetable oil. Fold over and 
serve. 

Steamed Stuffed Cabbage 

I cupful dry bread 3 eggs 

crumbs i onion, minced 

i cupful sifted i cupful chopped nut 
canned tomatoes meats 

li^ teaspoonfuls salt 2 tablespoonfuls but- 

i teaspoonful pepper ter substitute 

I three-pound cabbage 

Break off the tough outer cabbage leaves, 
and line a medium-sized bowl with them. 
Shred the rest of the cabbage coarsely and 
cook it till tender in a little salted water. 
Then pour the tomato juice which should 
be boiling, on the crumbs. Add the other 
ingredients, stir in the eggs unbeaten and 
pack this mixture into the lined bowl. 
Steam for two hours, tmmold, and serve 
with tomato sauce. 

Escalloped Egg-plant or STunmer Squash 
with Smoked Salmon 

3 cupfuls mashed i pound smoked sal- 

cooked egg-plant or mon, minced 
summer squash i cupful boiled rice 

I cupful white sauce 

Combine the ingredients in the order 



A Cereal or Vegetable Foundation 79 

given. Transfer to a well-oiled baking- 
dish, after seasoning the mixture to taste 
with salt and pepper as necessary. Cover 
with dry bread crumbs which have been 
mixed with a small amount of melted but- 
ter substitute and bake for an hour in a 
moderate oven. 

Baked Sweet Potatoes with Nuts and Raisins 

3 cupfuls mashed it cupfuls raisins 
sweet potato i cupful chopped 

i teaspoonf ul salt walnut meats 

4 cupful com-syrup 

Combine the ingredients in the order 
given and transfer to a well-oiled baking- 
dish, sprinkling the top with a few of the 
nuts and raisins, bake in a moderate oven. 
Or, chop the raisins, combine them with the 
other ingredients, press the mixture into 
flat cakes, dip them in com flour and brown 
on a griddle in vegetable oil. 



SAVORY SAUCES AND SALAD 
DRESSINGS 

All measurements are level 

Frenoh PioUed Onion Dreising 

i cupful salad oil i teaspoonf ul pepper 

3 tablespoonfuls ^ 2 tablespoonfuls 

pickled onion vin- minced pickled 

cgar onions 

1 teaspoonf ul salt 

Beat the ingredients together in the order 
given and serve. 

Frenoh Almond Dressing 

i cupful salad oil i teaspoonf ul paprika 

2 tablespoonfuls 2 tablespoonfuls 
lemon juice chopped, browned 

i teaspoonf ul salt almonds 

Combine the ingredients in the order 
given, beating them thoroughly together. 

Xggless Kayonnaise 

3 tablespoonfuls un- i teaspoonful pepper 
diluted evaporated i teaspoonful mustard 
milk 2 tablespoonfuls 

} teaspoonful salt sharp vinegar 

i cupful salad oil 

Combine the seasonings, stir in the milk 
and gradually beat in the oil with an egg- 
So 



Savory Sauces and Salad Dressings 8i 

beater. Then whip in the vinegar and use 
as any mayonnaise. 

Xook Boquef ort Salad Dressing 

1 cupful mayonnaise, i cupful cottage cheese 
or boiled salad i teaspobnful salt 
dressing i teaspoonful pepper 

i teaspoonful paprika 

Crush the cottage cheese with a fork, 
stirring in the other ingredients. 

Chili Salad Dressing 

To a cupful of Eggless Mayonnaise beat 
in one-fourth cupful of chili sauce, and a 
little grated onion if desired. 

Brown Hut Oravy 

2 tablespoonfuls but- i tablespoonful rye or 
ter substitute barley flour 

2 tablespoonfuls pea- i teaspoonful salt ^ 
nut flour i teaspoonful paprika 

li cttpfuls boiling water 

Melt the butter substitute and add the 
flour, cooking the mixture, stirring con- 
stantly till it IS brown. Then add the sea* 
sonings, pour in the water gradually and 
let the mixture boil for three minutes. 

Brown Vnt ''Flatter'' Oravy 

Observe the proportions for Brown Nut 
Gravy, substituting two tablespoonfuls of 
extra peanut flour for the rye. 



82 Mrs. Allen's Book of Meat Substitutes 
Peanut Cream Sanoe 

1 tablespoonful butter i teaspoonful salt 
substitute i teaspoonful pepper 

2 tablespoonfuls pea- 2 tablespoonfuls rye 
nut butter flour 

li cupfuls milk 

Melt the butter substitute, add the peanut 
butter and seasonings and, when liquefied, 
the flour. Gradually stir in the milk and 
let the mixture boil for three minutes. 

Oreen Pepper Cream Sauce 

i cupful minced 1} tablespoonfuls rye 

green peppers flour 

2 tablespoonfuls but- I teaspoonful salt 

ter substitute i teaspoonful pepper 

1} cupfuls milk 

Melt the butter substitute, add the green 
peppers and cook them very gently for three 
minutes, taking great care not to brown 
them, then stir in the flour and seasonings 
and gradually pour in the mijk, stirring 
constantly. Let the mixture boil for three 
aainutes> then serve. 

Cheese Sauoe 

To a cupful of plain white sauce, add a 
third cupful or more of grated dairy cheese, 
and let the mixture cook over hot water 
till the cheese is melted. 



Savory Sauces and Salad Dressings 83 
Tomato Sauce 

2 cupfuls canned or 2 tablespoonfuls but- 
stewed tomatoes ter substitute 
I onion, minced i tablespoonful corn 
I teaspoonful salt flour 

1 teaspoonful mustard 2 tablespoonfuls bar- 

2 cloves ley flour 
i teaspoonful pepper 

Combine the tomatoes and seasonings and 
stew them for. fifteen minutes. Then sift 
and thicken with tfie butter substitute 
blended with the flours. 



INDEX 



Almond French Dress- 
ing, 80 
Almonds, 39 

B 

Banana and nut balls, 

47-48 
Barl^, 4 
Pearled, with escal- 
loped cheese, 15 
Nuts, 45-46 
Bean and celery soup, 

63 
and com chowder, 

and rice omelet, 58- 

59 
Cutlets, 57» 

Dried loaf, and cot- 
tage cheese, 9 

Pot honey, 54-55 
Soup, I 

Soy, chop suey, 57- 
58 
Hash, 60-61 
Soup, 62-63 
with brown rice or 
barley, 58 
Beans, 3, 4» 52-53 
Baked and dieese 
loaf, 60 



85 



Beans, Contmued 
Loaf, 60 
Salad, 63 
Kidney, 53 
and celery salad, 
63-64 
Lmia, S3 
Salad of, with car- 
rots, 64 
Scalloped with cel- 
«ry, 59 
with barley, 56 

Oats, 55 
Soy, I, 2-4, 52-53 
with carrot sauce, 
56 
Beet and egg salad, 29 
Beets, 4 
Bisque, 66 
Bread and nut balls, 

47-48 
Butter, peanut, 40^41 

J-oaf, 43 
Butternuts, 39 



Cabbage, 4 

and peanut salad, 50 

Omelet, 23-24 

Steamed stuffed, 78 
Cakes, 

Oyster and potato, 72 

Rice and nut, 45 



86 



Index 



Carrot Sauce, with 

Beans, 56 
Carrots, 14 
Cream of soup and 

peas, 35-36 
Salad of, with lima 
beans, 64 
Celery, 
and bean soup, 63 
Cream of soup with 

rice, 34 
Salad with pinto or 
kidney beans, 63- 

64 
Scalloped with lima 
or pinto beans, 

59 
with braised chest- 
nuts, 49 
Cereal omelet, 22-23 
Cereals, 21, 39 
Cheese, i, 3, 21, 39 
and potato casserole, 

77 
and tomato toast, 17 
Baked, with bread 
crumbs, 18 
Split peas and 
commeal, 61-62 
Cooking, 6 
Cottage, 6 
and almond and 

tomato salad, 11 
and com patties, 10 
and dried bean 

loaf, 9 
and kidney bean 

salad, 12 
and nut roast, 8 
and pimento roast, 
8 



Cheese, Cottage, Cont, 
and tomato salad, 

II 
and walnut and 
date salad, 50- 

51 
Dishes of, 7 
Making, 7 
Molded salad of, 

12 
Sandwiches, 13-14 
Savory, 9 
Stuffing for Cu- 
cumbers, II 
with baked toma- 
toes, 9 
with figs, 13 
with green pep- 
pers, 10 
Dairy, dishes, 15- 
20 
Savory salad, 19- 
20 
Escalloped with hom- 
iny or pearled 
barley, 15 
Fried, and rice, 17 
Grated, pineapple and 
green pepper 
salad, 19 
Omelet, with pi- 
mento, 23 
Pudding, I 
Sauce, 82 
on, wheatless 
noodles, 17 
Timbales, 16 
Tomato soup with 

eggs, 18 
with poached eggs 
and rice, 25 



Index 



87 



Chestnuts, 39 
Braised with celery, 

49 
Creamed, 46-47 

in brown gravy, 47 
Chili Con Carne, meat- 
less, 59-60 
Chili salad dressing, 81 
Chop Suey, 57-58 
Chowder, 66 

Corn and bean, 37 

Dried pea and samp, 
62 

Fish, 70 

Mushroom, cream, 

37-2^ 
Oyster, 70 

Cocoanut, 5' 
Codfish, 
Baked with .tomato 

dressing, 72-73 
Casserole of salt, 69 
in ramekins, 6^ 
Com and bean chow- 
der, 77 
and egg salad, 29 
and nut loaf, 45 
Cracked, 4 
Omelet, 24 
Commeal, 4 
Baked with cheese 
and split peas, 
61-62 
Fish scrapple, 75 
Nut scrapple, 75 
Timbales, 76-77 
Cottonseed flour, 5 
Crumbs, bread, c»nelet 
of, 22-23 
with baked cheese, 
18 



Cucumbers, 
Stuffed with cottage 

cheese, 11 
with scrambled eggs, 

27 
Cutlets, 

Bean, 57 

Nut, 48 



Date and walnut, cot- 
tage cheese 
salad, 50-51 
Dressing, 
Chili, 81 
Eggless Mayonnaise, 

80^1 
French Almond, 80 
French Pickled 

Onion, 80 
Mock Roquefort, 81 
Salad, 80-83 
Tomato with baked 
sea trout, 72-73 
Cod, 72-72 
Haddock, 72-73 



E 

Eels, browned with 
braised onions, 

Egg 
and beet salad, 29 
and corn salad, 29 
and radish and po- 
tato salad, 29 



88 



Index 



Elgg-plant, 
Escalloped with 
smoked salmon, 

78-79 
with scrambled eggs, 

27 
Eggs, I, 3, 4 

as a meat substitute^ 

21-29 
Creamed with samp, 

28 
Hard-cooked, ways 

to use, 28-29 
Poached, 
"Making Go Far- 
ther," 25 
with creamed 

onions, 26 
with mashed pota- 
toes, 26 
with rice and 
cheese, 25 
Scrambled, 
"Making Go Far- 
ther," 26-27 
with cucumbers, 27 
with egg-plant, 27 
with savory rice, 

27 



Figs, with cottage 

cheese, 13 
Finnan Haddie, with 

hominy or rice, 

69 
Fish, 2, 5, 21 

and potato pie, 68 

as a meat substitute, 

65-73 



Fish, Continued 
•Canned, i, 2 
Chowder, 70 
Cooking, 65 
Cornmeal scrapple, 

75 
Patties, 69-70 

Salted, I, 2 

Savory, creamed, 68- 

69 
Seasoning, 65 
Smoked, i, 2 
Fish balls, hominy, 75- 

76 
Foods, bulky, 4 
Flour, 

Dried pea, 5 

Cottonseed, 5 
Fruits, 21 



Gravy, 
Brown Nut, 81 
"Platter," 81 
with chestnuts, 47 
Crayfish loaf, 67-68 

H 

Haddock, 

Baked, with tomato 
dressing, 72-73 

in ramekins, 61 
Hash, 

Mushroom, 77-78 

Potato, 42 

So:^ bean, 60-61 
Hominy, 4 

Fish balls, 75-76 

Timbales, 76-77 



Index 



89 



Hominy, Continued 
with escalloped 

cheese, 15 
with finnan haddie, 69 



Mushroom, 
Cream chowder, 37- 

38 
Hash, 77-78 



Legumes, i, 3-4, 5 
as a meat substitute, 

52-64 
Lentils, 52 

Lettuce soup with po- 
tato water, 35 
Loaf, 
Bean, baked, 60 
Baked, and cheese, 

60 
Dried and cottage 
cheese, 9 
Crayfish, 67-68 
Meatless, 42-43 
Nut and com, 45 
Nut and samp, 43 
Peanut butter, 43 
Salmon, 67-68 
Veal, imitation, 44 



M 

Mayonnaise, Eggless, 

80-81 
Meal, com, soy bean, 5 

(see Commeal) 
Milk, I, 3, 4 
as a meat substitute, 

30-38 
Mush, baked vegetable, 

76 



N 

« 

Noodles, wheatless 
with cheese 
sauce, 17 

Nut and banana balls, 

48-49 
and bread balls, 47- 

and com loaf, 45 

and cornmeal scrap- 
ple, 75 , 

and pearled barley, 
45-46 

and raisins with 
baked sweet po- 
tatoes, 79 

and rice cakes, 45 

Brown gravy, 81 
" Platter," 81 

Cutlets, 48 

Roast, 
and cottage cheese, 

8 
and samp loaf, 43- 

44 

Steak, 44 

Nuts, I, 2, s 
as a meat substitute, 

39-51 
Hickory, 2, 39 

Re-in forcing salads 

with, 49-50 
with stuffed green 

peppers, 46 



90 



Index 



O 

Oats, 4 

with lima beans, 55 
Oil, 

Corn, 3 

Cottonseed, 3 
Omelets, 21 

Bean, soy, and rice, 

58-59 
Bread crumb, 23 

Cabbage, 23-24 

Cereal, 22 

Corn, 24 

"Making Go Far- 
ther," 22 

Onion and green pep- 
per, 24 

Peanut and sweet po- 
tato, 42 

Pimento and cheese. 

23 
Salad, 24 

Onion, 

and green pepper 

omelet, 24 
chopped, soup, J5 
pickled, salad dress- 
ing, 80 
Onions, 
Braised with 

browned eels, 71 
Creamed with poadi- 
ed eggs, 26 
Oyster, 
and potato cakes, 7a 
Chowder, 70 



Parsnips, 4 



Patties, 
Com and cottage 

cheese, 10 
Fish, 69-70 

Pea 
Dried, roast, 61 
Pod soup, 36-37 
Soup and cream of 
carrots, 35-36 

Peanut 
and cabbage salad, 

and potato hash, 42 
and sweet potato 
omelet, 42 
salad, 51 
Butter, 40-41 

Loaf, 43 
Cream sauce, 82 
Sauce with boiled 

potatoes, yy 
Sausage, 41-42 
Peanuts, 2, 40 
Peas, 3, 4 
Cow, I, 52 
•Dried, 
and samp chowder, 
Flour, 5 
Split, I 
Baked with cheese 
and commeal, 
61-62 
Pecans, 39 
Peppers, green, 

and grated cheese 
and pineapple 
salad, 19 
and onion omelet, 

24 
Cream sauce for, 
82 



Index 



91 



Peppers, Continued 
Stuffed, with milk, 
46 
Pie, fish and potato, 
68 
Pimento 
and cheese omelet, 

23 
Roast and cheese, 8 

Pineapple, grated 

cheese and green 
pepper salad, 19 

Polenta, 74-75 

Potato, 
and cheese casserole, 

77 
and fish pie, 68 
and peanut hash, 

42 
and oyster cakes, 

72 
and radish and egg 

salad, 29 
Water in lettuce 

soup, 35 
Potatoes, 4 
Boiled with peanut 

sauce, 77 
Mashed with poached 

eggs, 26 
Sweet, 4 
and peanut hash, 

42 
and peanut salad, 

51 
with nuts and raisins, 

79 
Protein, 1-4, 14, 30-31, 

40, 66 
Pudding, cheese, i 
Pumpkm, 4 



R 

Radish, egg and potato 

salad, 29 
Raisins and nuts with 
baked sweet po- 
tatoes, 79 
Rarebit, Welsh, 5, 6 

E^gless, 16 
Rice 
and fried cheese, 17 
and soy bean omelet, 

58-59 . 
Brown, with soy 

beans, 58 

in cream of celery 
soup, 34 

Savory with scram- 
bled eggs, 27 

with finnan haddie, 

69 
with lima beans, 55 

with poached eggs 

and cheese, 25 

Roquefort, mock, salad 

dressing, 81 



Sable fish, baked in 

milk, 72 
Salad, 
Bean, baked, 63 
Kidney and celery, 

63-64 
Lima with carrots, 

64 
Pinto and celery, 

63-64 
Beet and egg, 29 
Corn and egg, 29 



92 



Index 



Salad, Continued 
Dressings, 80-83 
Grated cheese, pine- 
apple, and green 

pepper, 19 
Molded cottage 

cheese, 12 
Peanut and cabbage, 

50 
Potato, sweet and 

peanut, 51 
Re-inforcing with 

nuts, 49-50 
Tomato and almond, 

with cottage 

cheese, 11 
Kidney bean, 12 
with cottage cheese, 

II 
Salmon, 
Loaf, 67-68 
Omelet, 24 
Smoked with escal- 

loped squash, 78- 

79 
Samp, 5 

and dried pea chow- 
der, 62 

and nut loaf, 43 

with creamed eggs, 
28 
Sandwiches, 

Cottage cheese, 13- 

14 
Qub, 14 
Sauce, 
Carrot with beans, 

56 
Cheese, 82 
Green pepper cream, 

82 



Sauce, Continued 
Peanut cream, 82 
with boiled pota- 
toes, 77 
Savory, 80^3 
Tomato Sauce, 83 
White, 32 
Sausage, Peanut, 41 
Savory, Dairy Cheese, 

19-20 
Scallops, mock, 71 
Scrapple, 
Cornmeal fish, 75 
Cornmeal, nut, 75 
Soup, 66 
Celery and bean, 63 
Cream of carrot and 
pea, 35-36 
Celery with rice, 34 
General directions 

for, 33 
Lettuce with potato 

water, 35 
Milk, I 

Onion chopped, 35 
Pea pod, 36-37 
Soy bean, 62-63 
Tomato, cheese with 

eggs, 18 
Vegetable cream, 36 
Squash. 4 
Escalloped with 
smoked salmon, 

7&-79 
Steak, 

Nut, 44 

/Vegetable Hamburg, 

Stock, soup, 

Brown, meatless, 
53-54 



Index 



93 



5tock, Continued 
Fish, 66-^ 
White, meatless, 

54 
Substitutes, meat. 

List of, I 

Theory of, i-S 

with Cereal Founda- 
tion, 74-78 

with vegetable foun- 
dation, 74-78 



Toast, tomato and 

cheese, 17 
Tile fish in ramekins, 

Timbales, 

Cheese, 16 

Commeal, 76-77 

Hominy, 76-77 
Tomato dressing with 
baked fish, 72-73 
Tomato sauce, 83 



Tomatoes baked with 

cottage cheese, 9 

Trout, baked sea, 72- 

Turnips, 4 



Veal, imitation loaf, 44 
Vegetable cream soup, 

36 
Mush, baked, 76 
Vegetables, 4, 21, 39 
Escalloped with milk 

foundation, 33-34 

W 

Walnuts, 39 
Black, 2 
English, 29 
with cottage cheese 
and date salad, 

SO-51 



