Google 



This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 

to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 

to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 

are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other maiginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 

publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing tliis resource, we liave taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 
We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain fivm automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attributionTht GoogXt "watermark" you see on each file is essential for in forming people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liabili^ can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 

at |http: //books .google .com/I 




1 o =. 



9 s; eg 



B S B 



FOOD PROBLEMS 

TO ILLUSTRATE THE MEANING OF FOOD WASTE AND 

WHAT MAY BE ACCOMPLISHED BY ECONOMY 

AND INTELLIGENT SUBSTITUTION 



WHAT WE WASTE 
ITS MONEY VALUE 
HOW WE WASTE IT 
HOW WE MA V SAVE FOOD 
HOW YOU AND I CAN HELP 



a^Hn^tarmer 

SUPERINTENDENT OF SCHOOLS, EVANSTON, ILLINOIS 

AND 

JANET RANKIN HUNTINGTON 

STATE DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC INSTRUCTION, WISCONSIN 



. • - 



GINN AND COMPANY 

BOSTON • NEW YORK • CHICAGO • LONDON 
ATLANTA • DALLAS • COLUMBUS • SAN FRANCISCO 



COPYRIGHT, 1918, BY SINN AND COMPANY 
ALL RIGHTS RESERVED 

2lSa 



II 



GINN AND COMPANY • PRO- 
PRIETORS • BOSTON • U.S.A. 



^ GIFT OF 

DEAN A. S. WHITNEY 



PREFACE 

Just before the opening of the public schools in September, 
191 7, Mr. Farmer was called to Washington by Mr. Hoover, 
Federal Food Administrator of the United States, to help with 
the work of that department. This book is the result of the 
stimulation and inspiration which came from six weeks' intimate 
contact with the work of the United States Food Administration. 

Mr. Hoover is an intensely practical man, but he is also an 
idealist. In formulating his plans for food administration he 
insisted that in a democracy autocratic control of the food supply 
should be avoided ; that arbitrary methods should be employed 
only as a last resort; that the American people would respond 
loyally and unanimously when they realized the facts and appre- 
ciated the needs of the food situation. 

A CAMPAIGN OF EDUCATION 

This meant that a great campaign of education must be carried 
on to teach the nation the essential facts regarding the world food 
situation and the' obligation of America to come with her great 
abundance of surplus foodstuffs to the rescue of a world facing 
starvation. As under present conditions even the normal surplus 
would not be sufficient, it is necessary to impress every citizen 
of the United States with the vital necessity of releasing more 
of the essential foodstuffs by lessening consumption of them 
through substitution and by the elimination of waste. 



vi FOOD PROBLEMS 

THS SCHOOL'S OPPORTUNITY 

In this campaign of education it was recognized that the 
schools of the United States could play a most important part. 
The schools, one great department of our government, have here 
an unprecedented opportunity and obligation to cooperate with 
other departments of government. 

Instruction in food conservation provides an opportunity for 
training in citizenship through actual participation by pupils in the 
solution of one of the major problems before our government to-day. 
Every department of school work can be vitalized and motivated 
through this study. Every child in attendance can be stimulated 
to a sense of personal responsibility to conserve food. 

MOTIVATION THAT IS GENUINE 

The modern teacher is convinced of the desirability of using 
actual problems growing out of pupil activities and interests as 
a basis for school work. Nothing is more desirable than this in 
theory, and nothing has proved so difficult in practice. 

The great war touches the life of every child in the United States. 
It is an interest so stupendous and far reaching as to be beyond 
the comprehension of even the greatest minds in the country. It 
is an interest so keen as to affect the dullest pupil in the poorest 
schoolroom. No subject which can be imagined forms a better 
basis for genuine motivation coupled with genuine patriotic service. 

Arithmetic is fighting the war. It is only through arithmetic 
that the officials of the United States Food Administration know 
how much food there is, how much food needs to be saved, and 
how much is being saved. Through the use of arithmetic in 
solving these problems children will be impressed as they could 
not be in any other way with the immense and fundamental 

aracter of the food-conservation campaign. 



PREFACE vii 

CORRELATION 

Arithmetic is by no means the only school subject which may 
be used in teaching food conservation. As indicated in the sug- 
gestions to teachers, this campaign provides material for work in 
English, geography, civics, drawing, composition, and history. 
In the discussions of the various problems concrete means for 
practicing correlation in the classrpom are suggested. 

CHARACTER AND THRIFT 

An aspect of food-conservation instruction not less important 
than its motivation of the various school subjects is its use in 
promoting character development among pupils. The economic 
importance of inculcating far-reaching habits of thrift cannot be 
overestimated at this time. Such habits formed through the 
study of food conservation will persist and will permeate the adult 
life of the pupil. The wise use of this material will result in 
developing in pupils not only arithmetical skill but also such 
character-making qualities as consideration for others, devotion to 
an ideal, the spirit of cooperation, self-control, and a sense of 
responsibility. It will teach the lesson of our interdependence 
and the obligation of the strong to help the weak. 

SCHOOL AND HOME 

The value of all instruction, and more particularly of instruction 
of the character of these problems, depends upon the extent to 
which it modifies practice outside the schoolroom. The possibili- 
ties of these problems cannot be realized unless the children take 
them home, talk them over with their parents, work them out 
within the family circle, and extend their influence beyond the 
home into the community. How this may be done is outlined in 
the suggestions to teachers. 



viii FOOD PROBLEMS 

PRICES 

Prices are changing daily and will not be found the same in 
any two sections of the country. The prices quoted in these 
problems are those current in Chicago during the first part of 
the year 191 8. 

The variation in prices gives opportunity to the teacher to 
vitalize this work still farther by having the pupils make com- 
parisons of local prices and calculate the extent to which this 
affects problem results. A full discussion of this phase of the 
work will be found in the suggestions to teachers. 

THS PUBLISHERS' CONTRIBUTION 

The publishers of this book realize that its purpose differs from 
that of the ordinary textbook. They see in it an opportunity to 
cooperate with the United States Food Administration. They 
have therefore fixed a low price to insure the widest possible 
distribution. 

OUR COLLABORATORS 

Acknowledgment is here made of the valuable assistance in 
formulating this book which has been freely given by officials 
of the United States Food Administration, the United Spates 
Department of Agriculture, various war departments, the exten- 
sion divisions of state and other colleges of agriculture, as well 
as a number of individuals throughout the country. Especial 
mention should be made of the services of the teachers and pupils 
of the public schools of Evanston, Illinois. Through their use of 
the original manuscript of this book, they have demonstrated its 
value in vitalizing school work and in carrying the practice of 
food conservation into the home and the community. 

THE AUTHORS 



CONTENTS 

PAGE 

A LETTER TO PUPILS xi 

SUGGESTIONS TO TEACHERS xii 

The real meaning of these problems — Children are soldiers — Stimu- 
late curiosity — Correlate with other subjects — Each problem has 
a meaning — Encouraging pupils to illustrate problems — Picture 
results — Let the children do the work — Prices may vary — Grad- 
ing and order of work — Use direct methods — Parent cooperation 

CHAPTER I. EUROPE FACES STARVATION i 

Why the world lacks food — America has plenty for herself — Can 
we send enough? — Let us remember — What foods must we send? 

— How much must we save? — How shall we save this? — Will 
you do your bit? 

CHAPTER II. GENERAL PROBLEMS IN FOOD CONSERVATION 5 

What we need to save — How much wheat there is — What boys and 
girls have done — How much money is wasted by wasting food — 
Saving for war — Profits and prices — Producing and' exporting 

Problems 1-2 j 

CHAPTER III. WHEAT PROBLEMS 18 

What we have and what wc need — Profits on flour — Why Australia's 
wheat cannot be used — What a one ounce per week waste means 

— How much wheat each of us uses — Reducing the use of wheat 
— Whole wheat flour vs. white flour — Wasting the wheat — Saving 
the wheat by cutting out waste — Use potatoes to save wheat — 
Other wheat substitutes — Com as a wheat substitute 

Problems 24-62 

CHAPTER IV. MEAT PROBLEMS 33 

How much meat we have to send — How much meat we eat — The 
cost of the meat we eat — Wasting one ounce per day — Use the 

ix 



X FOOD PROBLEMS 

PAGE 

cheaper cuts — How meat is wasted — Save meat by eating less and 
using scraps — Save meat by using substitutes — Why we should 
eat fish — The food value of milk and cheese Problems 6j-8g 

CHAPTER V. PROBLEMS ON BUTTER AND OTHER FATS . . 45 

How much we use each day — What a small waste means — Saving 
butter and other fats — Oleomargarine and butter substitutes 

Problems go-iij 
CHAPTER VI. MILK PROBLEMS . 51 

How much milk we use — The food value of milk — If we all wasted 
a little milk — How we can use all the milk Problems 116-12^ 

CHAPTER VII. SUGAR PROBLEMS 55 

The sugar we have and need — Wasting sugar — Our overuse of 
sugar — Candy as sugar waste — Why we should use sugarless 
candy and how to make it Problems 126-146 

CHAPTER Vin. MISCELLANEOUS PROBLEMS 63 

What it costs to waste — How we eat — Saving by machinery — The 
fireless cooker — The clean plate — Little savings — Waste through 
spoilage — War gardens — Insects, rats, and mold - — How we waste 
and how to save Problems i4'/-i'/j 

APPENDIX. USEFUL INFORMATION RELATING TO FOOD 

CONSERVATION 73 

Percentage of wheat used in making flour — Table of equivalents — 
Use of some foods per person per year in the United States — 
Populations (in round numbers) — Use cottage cheese — List of 
bread substitutes — List of meat substitutes — List of foods rich in 
fats — Summary of uses of easily obtainable fats — Groups of 
foods for a balanced diet — Proportions of various foods eaten by 
the average American family and the soldier — A soldier's daily 
ration — Foods to eat and foods to save — How you can save food 
— How food is wasted — How money is wasted on food 

LIST OF FREE BULLETINS FOR WHICH YOU MAY WRITE . 85 
SOURCES OF PROBLEM MATERIAL 89 



Zo tbc bo^e an& Qivle in our 0cbool0 : 

President Wilson has called upon the great army of twenty- 
three million boys and girls in the United States to do their part 
in winning the World War. 

It may seem strange to think of yourself as a soldier, but the 
boys and girls in the schools make up the biggest army in the 
world, and every one of this army can serve the nation nobly. 
This book is made to show you one way to help win the war. 

ARITHMETIC AND THE WAR 

The people in Washington who are trying to lead the United 
States to victory and peace are using arithmetic every minute. 

They are finding out how much fuel, how much food, how many 
guns, we have in this country. 

They are calculating how long it will take to produce larger 
supplies or how best the supplies we have may be conserved. 

Thq/ are fighting the war by arithmetic. 

You can do the same thing. Through your solution of these 
problems you can learn the bigness of this war and the way in 
which you can help to win it. 

FOOD CONSERVATION 

It is our duty to share our food with the Allies. By reading 
the following pages you will see how much they need a part of 
our food. You will see that it is possible for us to save enough 
so that all may have what they need. You will learn a number of 
ways by which this saving can be accomplished. 

Will you do your part in seeing that every possible food saving 

is put into practice in your home ? Will you accept appointment 

as Mr. Hoover's deputy to see to it that our food supply is put 

to the best use ? By doing this you will prove yourself a good 

soldier doing a big part in winning the war. 

Sincerely yours, 

A. N. Farmer 

xi 



SUGGESTIONS TO TEACHERS 

THE REAL MEANING OF THESE PROBLEMS 

The purpose of these problems is not to teach arithmetic; 
it is to use arithmetic to teach the meaning, necessity, and 
practice of food conservation. 

The arithmetic solution is but a step toward the accomplish- 
ment of the purpose to be achieved. Discuss with the chil- 
dren the real meaning of each problem ; make sure they learn 
the larger implication of each, and drive it home in such a way 
that it will stir the imagination, stimulate the emotions, and 
result in action. 

For example, these problems should show that no waste is 
little when it occurs in many thousands of homes. 

A waste of the hundredth part of a cent, a smn so small that 
we can scarcely imagine it, if it occurred in every one of the 
20 million homes in the country would make a total waste of 
$2000 daily, or $720,000 per year. 

Make it plain that if the 23 million school children all over the 
country really save even the least bit in money value, the saving 
the country over will be enormous. 

Lead the children to see that what seems a little waste in one 
home is a big waste if it happens in many homes. 

Bring out all the avenues of money waste which the children 
can suggest, and discuss means for overcoming them. 

Zll 



SUGGESTIONS TO TEACHERS xiii 

CHILDREN ABE SOLDIERS 

These problems should also show that children as well as grown 
men can fight the war, for the food war is as important in the 
long run as the war on the firing Ime. 

Germany has said that if she can starve England, she can win. 
Every one must fight the food war, which is to use food intel- 
ligently and save certain foods. 

Each child should think of himself as a deputy food adminis- 
trator to save food and to suggest means of savmg in each home. 

The children are soldiers in the food war. In so far as they 
know the facts, realize the need, and are stirred to action, they 
are good soldiers. 

Let us see to it that all are enlisted. 

STIMULATE CURIOSITY 

Lead the pupils to be curious about the solution of the problem 
as you assign each one. 

For example (Problem 120), "What does your mother pay 
for milk? Is any wasted? Do you ever leave any in your 
glass? Is milk thrown away when it sours? About how much 
milk do you think your home wastes a day? Suppose every 
home wasted just a tiny bit of milk every day, how much do you 
think would be wasted in the whole country?" 

And then, after the problem has been solved, **What are the 
ways in which we may save milk ? Ask your mother (or cook) 
how she uses sour milk. Let's make a list of all its uses." 

Compare prices and conditions with those stated in the prob- 
lem, and suggest related problems, e.g. (Problem 108) : "How 
many tons of garbage are collected in this city (or in the largest 
city of this county) every day? Can any one find out? From 



xiv FOOD PROBLEMS 

whom can you find out? (Commissioner of Streets.) Let's 
see how many pounds of fat we throw away every day. How 
do we waste fat besides throwing it in the garbage? (Pouring 
down sink, burning, etc.) How can we use the fats that are 
now wasted?'' 

CORRELATE WITH OTHER SUBJECTS 

Parts of this book, such as '' Europe Faces Starvation," will 
be valuable for reading and discussion by the class. 

In addition, much of the material can be used as a basis for 
oral and written composition. Pupils should be asked to write 
on topics such as '*The Real Meaning of Problem 7." They 
should be encouraged to report all of the ways in which these 
problems appeal to them, to raise many pertinent questions re- 
garding the facts involved, to use these facts as a basis for 
problems of their own, and to express their judgment regarding 
the best ways and means for dealing with the various conditions 
and situations described. 

Teachers are cautioned to be patient and not expect too much 
from pupils at first. Encourage them in every way to give their 
own viewpoint and judgment. 

The writing of letters asking for a copy of the various bulletins 
listed in the bibliography on page 85 will give to pupils the best 
possible training in letter writing. The letters should state 
specifically just what use is to be made of the bulletins. When 
the pupils have written the letters, they should be compared, 
the best features selected, and it may be wise to use these in 
the letter finally sent. These bulletins, as a rule, may be had 
without cost ; the supply, however, is usually limited, and only 
one should be asked for. One bulletin of a kind for a building 
should be enough. 



SUGGESTIONS TO TEACHERS xv 

Suggestions for using these problems in teaching civics and 
geography are made in connection with the various problems 
themselves. The ingenious teacher mil see numberless other 
aspects for discussion and study. 

EACH PROBLEM HAS A MEAIONG 

There is not a single problem in this book which has not been 
introduced with a definite aim and purpose. 

Some of the problems may be somewhat difficult. It will 
pay to take time to get at the facts and to obtain an appreciation 
of the conditions involved. In some cases it will be profitable 
to spend several days, if necessary, on a group of problems to 
solve them and to gain an understanding of their larger impli- 
cation. 

Always go over problems carefully to determine the proper 
number for the advance lessons. In making assignments, dis- 
cuss the problems with the pupils to insure an understanding 
of the facts and conditions involved. 

ENCOURAGING PUPILS TO ILLUSTRATE PROBLEMS 

No war service will have a greater educational value in stimu- 
lating pupil initiative, originality, and resourcefulness than 
making concrete the significance of these problems through 
jingles, slogans, illustrations, and posters. 

Freehand sketches or cartoons may be made by pupils to il- 
lustrate some interesting aspect of the various problems. Chil- 
dren will often show surprising ability at this work. Those who 
are not skillful should be encouraged, at first at least, to cut out 
pictures from magazines and newspapers to illustrate their 
problems. Later they will become able to do original work. 



xvi FOOD PROBLEMS 

The making of posters is an especially valuable project. The 
posters of the United States Food Administration as well as 
other government posters are suggestive. An exhibit of the 
children's work will arouse great interest in food conservation 
and will also lead to closer relation between the school and the 
community. 

Originality and resourcefulness will also be developed in the 
writing of slogans and jingles to be used on posters to drive home 
the appeal or thought desired to express. It will be a great stim- 
ulation to children to feel that they can help teach the great 
lessons which the war is bringing to us and that what they 
draw or write will help the nation to accomplish its aims. Can 
the schools do anything more worth while at this time? 

FICTUSE RESULTS 

Closely related to the use of illustrations as described above 
is the picturing of results by means of graphs. The use of the 
graph is becoming more and more general. Nowhere can it be 
of greater value than in the schoolroom when used for purposes 
of comparison, or as an aid in showing the significance of con- 
ditions or results. 

In making graphs, it is convenient to use "squared paper" ^ 
as shown on page xvii. Each square or a nimaber of squares is 
made to represent a certain unit of measure. For example, in 
the graph on page 7, three squares represent 100 million 
bushels of wheat. In every case it is necessary to fit the graph 
to the page ; the unit of measure or scale should be determined 
accordingly. The teacher will discuss with pupils the scale 
that should be used. 

^ This paper may be obtained from any school supply or stationery company 
by asking for "squared" or "quadrille ruled" paper. 



GRAPH TYPES ILLUSTRATING WHAT THE AVERAGE 
AMERICAN FAMILY EATS 




xviii FOOD PROBLEMS 

On page xvii are shown a few of the different forms that may 
be used for graphic illustration. Children should be encouraged 
to experiment to find out the method which most clearly illus- 
trates the material at hand. Here again children will exercise 
inventiveness and originality. 

LET THE CHILDREN DO THE WORK 

Where questions are asked concerning which pupils have any 
first-hand information, this should be exhausted before sending 
the pupils to reference books and bulletins. These problems 
will have little permanent value unless they capitalize every bit 
of the child's knowledge and experience. 

Encourage the children to suggest ways of saving which will 
apply to their own homes, and receive reports each week on the 
savings accomplished. Reports of children on savings and 
food substitutions in their homes will frequently be taken by 
pupils to other homes and the suggestions used. The real pur- 
pose of this work with the children will not be realized if it does 
not lead to intelligent cooperation in carrying out the program 
of the United States Food Administration in the homes of the 
children. This can be insured only as pupils understand and 
discuss the questions involved with their parents. 

Every table in the Appendix may be made the basis for ad- 
ditional problems to be composed by the pupils themselves. 
Table XV, page 8i, for example, contains the raw material for 
innumerable real problems which grammar grade pupils can 
formulate. Figures of population for cities and states are easily 
available. The number of families may be estimated by di- 
viding the total population by 5. 

Bulletins listed in the bibliography have been numbered 
serially and note references to them are made by numbers in- 



SUGGESTIONS TO TEACHERS xix 

stead of by name. These note references should be looked up 
wherever bulletins are available and additional related infor- 
mation secured. Through the use of these bulletins children 
should learn of the great number of bulletins on almost every 
subject that are issued by the United States government, col- 
leges, universities, and other organizations. Teach them the 
value of these. Stimulate them to use the library in their 
search for needed information. 

PRICES MAT VARY 

The prices included in problems in this book are correct with 
reference to Chicago, in the first part of the year 1918. They also 
take into account fixed prices for foods set by the Food Admin- 
istration. It is not probable, however, that they will be true 
for a large percentage of communities, or for any one community 
permanently. It is doubly advisable, therefore, to look up and 
use local prices. Comparison and study of prices will greatly 
stimulate and increase the interest of pupils. 

Problems made up by the pupils should always take into ac- 
count local prices and conditions. Local prices should invariably 
be compared with the prices set by the United States Food Ad- 
ministration. Keep price bulletins posted in the classroom. 
Encourage children to investigate whether local dealers are 
maintaining government prices. 

GRADING AND ORDER OF WORK 

Experience shows that children in the sixth grade are able to 
perform nearly all of these problems without serious difficulty. 
At first the large numbers are troublesome, but pupils soon be- 
come accustomed to them and handle them easily. 

Problems have been grouped by subjects. Whenever a prob- 



XX FOOD PROBLEMS 

lem is too difficult for any particular grade, very often an adap- 
tation may be made to fit the problem to the class. For ex- 
ample, percentages may be changed to fractional parts, figures 
may be altered to read in "round numbers," etc. 

The grouping of the problems by subjects is for convenience 
only. It is not at all necessary for pupils to solve all the prob- 
lems in one section before taking some of those in another. The 
teacher should exercise judgment in determining the order in 
which the problems shall be solved. 

USB DIRECT METHODS 

In the solution of problems, use the most direct methods 
possible. Eliminate all unnecessary steps. Permit pupils to 
work out original methods of solution. Teachers sometimes 
make the mistake of emphasizing method of procedure as if 
it were the end sought instead of the means of obtaining the 
result. 

In problems which involve millions and billions it is not 
necessary to use the sequence of zeros to express the amount. 
Lead pupils to use "millions'' and "billions" as they would 
"bushels." 1,900,000,000 may be read or written as 1900 mil- 
Uon. Two and one-half times 6 million probably means more 
to a child as 15 milUon than as 15,000,000. 

In all cases require pupils to estimate the probable result. 
The wise use of approximations stimulates careful thinking by 
pupils and results in the exercise of good judgment. Too often 
figures are mere symbols or characters without meaning. Ap- 
proximations help to avoid this difficulty. 

Do not require children to follow out a problem to a large 
fractional or decimal result, where this is not essential to the 
clear understanding of the problem. Small fractions must be 



SUGGESTIONS TO TEACHERS xxi 

retained when they are to be multiplied by some large number, 
in which case a small change in the fraction makes a large dif- 
ference in the result. 

PARENT COOPERATION 

Teachers will find that parents will become greatly interested 
in the problems. In Evanston many parents have requested 
that they be allowed to discuss and solve the problems with 
their children. This has resulted in giving children a great deal 
of interesting information which otherwise they would not 
have had. It has stimulated parent interest in the work of the 
school, and brought school and home much closer together. 
One parent writes: ^^ These problems carry food conservation 
work right into the home. Our consciences prick as we work 
these sums with John." 

It is suggested that in many cases parents will be willing to 
meet with the class and help them with many of the questions 
involved. Lawyers and business men will be glad to explain 
the income tax and excess-profits tax. Other parents will be able 
to make contributions to other phases of the work. Whenever 
this can be done, it will add to the interest and will help in 
other ways. 



FOOD PROBLEMS 



CHAPTER I 
EUROPE FACES STARVATION 

In Poland, Belgium, Serbia, Armenia, people are starving. 

In France, England, Italy, people must soon starve unless we 
send them food. The same is true of Norway, Sweden, Den- 
mark, Holland, and Switzerland. 



WHY THE WORLD LACKS FOOD 



Because millions of men have gone from the farms into the 
trenches. Over 50 millions are now fighting or training for 
war. Men at war do not produce ; they destroy. 

Because the able-bodied men from the farms have gone to 
war, and their places must be taken by women, children, old men, 
and others not strong enough to fight. This reduces the amount 
of grain and other foods produced. 

Because other millions of men and women have been taken 
to factories to manufacture munitions of war. From 30 to 40 
millions are now engaged in making guns, cannon, powder, and 
other materials and machmes used in war. 

Because there have been partial or complete crop failures in 
some parts of the world. 

Because hundreds of thousands of tons of food have been 
sunk by the submarines. 



2 ' FOOD PROBLEMS 

Because millions of tons of shipping have been destroyed by 
submarine warfare so that it has been impossible to find enough 
freight boats to carry foodstuffs from lands of plenty to lands 
of want. 

Because hundreds of millions of bushels of wheat and other 
grains grown in Russia which formerly went to countries whose 
people are starving cannot now be shipped through the Dax- 
danelles. 

Because much farm land has been laid waste by the war. 

Because fertilizers for fields are scarce and high priced. 

Because fighters who suffer all sorts of hardships and exposure 
must have more food than the same men would use in times 
of peace. 



AMERICA HAS PLENTY FOR HERSELF 



To feed ourselves only we have more than enough. 

But shall we desert our Allies, who have been fighting for us, 
and cause their sure defeat? 

Or shall we send them what they must have to keep thetn 
from starvation? 

There is but one answer. We must keep for ourselves only 
what food is most necessary. We must send to our Allies what 
they need and must have. 



WE CAN SEND ENOUGH 



K we are not wastefid; 

If we make the best use of the foods we have ; 
If we choose intelligently and wisely, using less of certain foods 
and more of others; 

If we produce more food; 
If every one helps. 



EUROPE FACES STARVATION 




That we are the most wasteful nation in the world. 

That a French, a Belgian, a Polish, or a Serbian family could 
live on what many an American family throws away. 

That if the little children and older people who are now dying 
of starvation could get the crusts of bread, the milk, the meat, 
and other foods which we now waste, their lives woidd be saved. 



WHAT FOODS WE MUST SEND 



Foods which keep. It woidd be folly to send vegetables 
or fruits, although we have plenty, for they woidd spoil in 
shipping. I 

> Foods which nourish and take up little space. A shipload of 
wheat has much more food value than a shipload of potatoes 
or fish. 

i Foods which our Allies know how to use. We have, for 
example, a large crop of corn, but as the United States Food 
Administration says,^ " They cannot take com instead, seeing 
they have neither mills to grind com nor ovens to bake it in." 
Com bread cannot well be distributed from bakeries, even if 
bakers had the machinery with which to bake it. 

The foods which can best be sent are 

Wheat 

Meat and Meat Fats 

Sugar 

Condensed Milk, Butter, and Cheese 

* Bulletin No. 75. (See Appendix, page 87.) 



FOOD PROBLEMS 



HOW MUCH WE MUST SAVE 



A tiny saving by each of us means enough for aU. 

When the bee returns from her trip to the flowers, she brings 
only the least bit of honey. Many trips by many bees produce 
tons of honey. 

Crumbs become loaves when multiplied by loo millions, — 
and there are more than that number of people in this country 
now. 

There is enough for all if each person in the United States 

saves daily : 

Half a slice of meat 

2 teaspoonfuls of butter or fat 

2 tablespoonf uls of sugar 

2 slices of white bread 



HOW WE CAN SAVE THIS 



There are two great ways : 

1. By not wasting any food. 

2. By using other foods instead of those which must be sent 
to our Allies. 



Wn^LYOU DO YOUR PART? 



CHAPTER II 

GENERAL PROBLEMS IN FOOD CONSERVATION 

Problem 1. Mr. Hoover asks each of the loo million people 
in the United States to save i ounce of meat each day, i ounce 
of sugar each day, 2 ounces of fats each week, and i pound of 
wheat flour each week. If we all do this, 

a. How many tons of meat 

b. How many tons of sugar 

c. How many tons of fats 

J. How many 196-pound barrels of flour will be saved for the 
nation each week? How many a year? 

Discussion.^ How much is an ounce? Can you bring to class 
I ounce of meat, i ounce of flour, etc. ? How much is a pound? 

Is it easier to save i ounce each day or 7 ounces all at one time? 
Remember that saving does not always mean going without. It may 
mean substituting other food. Would you rather have meat seven 
meals a week and eat i ounce less every time, or have macaroni 
and cheese, nut loaf, cottage cheese, or some other meat substitute 
for two meals in place of meat, and thus save the whole amount? 

Will meatless days save enough meat for the Allies? Look in the 
Appendix to find out how much meat we use, and see if a saving of ^ 
would amount to an ounce a day. 

^ These discussions are suggestive rather than exhaustive and aim to' illustrate 
what should be done with every problem. The resourceful teacher will find little 
difficulty in supplementing what is given, and in working out questions and topics 
for discussion in connection with all problems. 

5 



6 FOOD PROBLEMS 

Make a tentative list of ways to save these foods. Then look at 
Table XIV, page 78, to find other ways of saving. Keep each list to 
add to later. )< 

Send for the bulletin numbered 74 in the bibliography and read on 
page 7, Mr.. Hoover's appeal to us to save. 



MANY A MICKLE MAKES A MUCKLE 



2. Following are the annual production and use of wheat 
before the war in the leading nations of the world, in millions 
of bushels. 



Russia . . . 
United States . 
India .... 
France . . . 
Austria-Hungary 
Canada . . . 
Italy .... 
Germany . . . 
Argentina . . 
Spain .... 
Australia . . . 
Roumania . . 
British Isles . . 
Other Countries 



Total 



Production of 

Wheat in Mil- 

UONS ov Bushels 



727 

70s 
370 

324 
247 

229 

191 

160 

156 
123 

89 
88 
61 

353 



3823 



Use ot Wheat 

in Millions ov 

Bushels 



599 

589 
310 

379 
246 

118 

250 
228 

55 
127 

37 

34 
282 

569 



3823 



MILIJDN8 ov 
BUSBZLS 



a. Place in the column marked " Diflference " the difference 
between production and use, marking it + if production is 
greater than use, and — if production is less than use. 



GENERAL PROBLEMS IN FOOD CONSERVATION 7 
WORLD WHEAT PRODUCTION AND CONSUMPTION 



NUMBER OF 




" 


J.' 




" 






" 


^ 




^ 




■"" 
















































1 




Hi 




1 


I 


1 


1 




M 


1 


1 












l_ 


- 












































1 










1 




1 


1 


1 1 


1 


1 






















B 




j 


■ 










" 












: 


: 


: 




5 




!H 




- 








L 


-L 


- 














- 


- 






















































































































Au3iai*.HuHG*iiT SSjSSa "a 


1 






















































































1 


















































Tr 


ij 














- 


- 




- 


p 












' 


- 


^S^^ Mi 


n 




ipp 




T 




- 


— 




— 


- 


- 




- 


- 










L 


- 


- 






















































IPP 










1- 








- 




- 














- 


- 




























































































































































































S.-A™ sssr« 1^ 


i 




p 


■ 




- J 






























- 


- 












































AUBTBALU, SSJ^ ^' 










































































































































KOUUANti cS5^ M 


p 












































































































































BRmaHlSLRs SS^™b ;^ 




































































































^ 






































■^^ 

















































b. Draw bars on construction paper to represent the pro- 
duction and use of wheat in the various countries. Allow zo 
million bushels to a space and place the two bars for each country 
together, as shown by the graph above. 

DiscusBioii. Let us try to find a way to imagine 4 billion bushels 
of wheat. How many tons is it? (One bushel of wheat weighs 
60 pounds.) If a freight car can carry 60 thousand pounds, how 
many would it take to move this amount of wheat? 



8 FOOD PROBLEMS 

What five states led in wheat production last year? What part of 
the entire yield in the United States did these states produce? Where 
does your state rank in wheat production? Why so high or low? 

How many people are there in the world? (See your geography.) 
How much wheat is produced for each person? Color a map to 
show the countries which produce most wheat, or which produce 
more wheat than they use. Which countries do not use much wheat ? 
What do they use instead? 

Where do we send wheat now (this table shows conditions before the 
war)? Which countries must be producing less wheat now? Why? 

If there is a library in your school or city, look up facts on wheat 
production in reference books, and make more problems based on 
what you find. 




3. According to United States statistics, the United States 
and Canada have sent to the Allies 400 million bushels less wheat 
than they need this year. 

a. How many bushels a year would each of the 100 million 
people in the United States have to save to supply 125 million 
bushels from this country? 

b. What part of a barrel of flour, if 4^ bushels make a 196- 
pound barrel? 

c. How many pounds a year? How many pounds a week? 

d. If it takes f of a pound of flour to make i loaf of bread, 
how many loaves must we save each week ? 

Discussion. How much wheat do the United States and Canada 
normally produce (see problem 2)? How much surplus is there in 
normal times? If 400 million more bushels are taken, how much 
does this leave for home use? 

Read bulletins 74 and 75 (Appendix, page 87) and see that enough 
food will be kept in this country to provide for our needs. There is 
plenty of food if we save by substitution and cutting out waste. 



GENERAL PROBLEMS IN FOOD CONSERVATION 'g 

What other uses for wheat flour are there besides its use in white 
bread? Make a list of all you can think of. Then take them up 
one by one and discuss how waste may be eliminated and how other 
substances may be substituted. 



IT IS THE LITTLE SAVINGS THAT COUNT 



4. Last year there were many boys' and girls' corn clubs in 
the country. They raised 523 thousand bushels of corn at a 
cost of $143,000. 

a. What was the approximate cost per bushel? 

b. They sold the corn at 81 cents a bushel. What was the 
profit per bushel? 

c. What was the total profit? 

6. In 1916, 7903 boys and girls belonged to canning clubs, 
which canned 201,300 quarts of food. 

a. How many quarts was the average for each member ? 

b. The total cost was $28,126.61. How much per quart? 
Compare this with the cost to you of canned corn, peas, tomatoes, 
and other vegetables and fruits. 



WE CAN ALL HELP FIGHT THE FOOD WAR 



6. The boys and girls enrolled to serve in food production 
in 1916 produced food worth an average of $20.96 each. 

a. If one half of the 23 million school boys and girls in the 
United States should do as well in 1918, what would be the 
value of the food produced? 

J. If the profit of each boy or girl was 60 per cent of the selling 
price, what would be the money profit for iii million children? 



Id FOOD PROBLEMS 

Discussion (problems 4, S, and 6), Find out from the county 
superintendent of schools about boys* and girls' club work in your 
county. Who is the state leader of this work? The United States 
Department of Agriculture has nation-wide control of this movement. 
From this department, or from your state leader, you can get infor- 
mation concerning the work in your state. Has your school done 
any gardening or canning work? K so, write an account of the re- 
sults and send it to the county and state leaders. 

Discuss ways of earning money through producing or preserving 
food. 



CONQUERING WASTE IS WINNING THE WAR 



7. The United States Department of Agriculture states that 
700 million dollars has been wasted in homes in this country 
every year by throwing away food which might be used. There 
are 20 million families in the United States. What is the 
average waste for each family per year ? Per month ? Per day ? 



WILLFUL WASTE MAKES WOEFUL WANT 



8. If the average family contains five persons, how much 
is the average waste for each person each day ? 

9. How many Liberty Loan Bonds at $100 apiece could be 
bought with the yearly food waste of the American people? 
What part of a two billion dollar issue is it? What per cent? 

10. If the amount of the yearly food waste of the United 
States ($700,000,000) were invested in $100 Liberty Loan 
Bonds at 3^ per cent interest, what would be the yearly income ? 
How many aeroplanes at $8000 each could be bought with the 
amount wasted on food annually by the American people? 

Discussion (problems 7, 8, 9, arid 10). Do you waste as much as 
problem 8 states, each day? Make a list of the different ways in 
which you waste food during one day. Refer to Tables XIV and XV 



GENERAL PROBLEMS IN FOOD CONSERVATION ii 

in the Appendix for examples of wastes. Do you think you waste 
more or less than the average? 

Think of some other ways of trying to understand what is meant 
by a food waste of 700 million dollars. How many schoolhouses 
like yours could be built with it? • How many boys or girls would it 
send through college, at $500 a year? Write an essay to show in other 
ways what may be done with 700 million dollars. 

Can all this food waste be eUminated? Can you name any food 
waste in your home which can't be helped ? (See Table XIV, Appendix.) 



SAVE AND HAVE 



11. The average food waste of the American people is esti- 
mated by the Government to be 7I per cent of the total amount 
spent for food in each family. If the average family wastes 
$35 per year, what is the amount spent for food per year in the 
average. family? In the 70,000 families in Newark? 

If the 70,000 Newark homes each saved $35 yearly in food, 
how much would be saved altogether? 

What would be saved in your city or state if every family 
saved $35 each year on food ? 

Discussion. Get some estimate of the amount your family spends 
in a year for food. If 7J per cent of this is waste, how much is 
wasted? Where does it go? Do you think your family wastes 
more or less than this amount? 

Make a report showing how your home is making its food waste 
less, and how it can do still more. Don't try to go too much into 
detail. This will be done in following problems. Good bulletins to 
read in this connection are Nos. 75 and 76. 

12. There are about 2000 soldiers in a regiment^ and each 
soldier's food costs the Government about 40 cents a day. How 

* The number varies. This is approximately correct for February, 19 18. 



12 FOOD PROBLEMS 

long would the 700 million dollars lost each year through waste 
of foods in the United States feed one regiment of soldiers? 
Answer in days. In years. 

Discussion. About how much does the food for each member of 
your family cost per month? Does your food cost more or less than 
a soldier^s? K you waste 2 cents a day in food (see problem 8) what 
part of the cost of the food you eat is wasted? 



CAN WE EACH SAVE TWO CENTS A DAY IN FOOD? 



13. If each of the 100 million persons in the United States 
should save 2 cents a day in food, what saving would it mean to 
the nation each day ? Each month ? Each year ? 

Discussion. Can each of us save 2 cents a day in food? The Uni- 
versity of California has estimated that $582 a year is the least amount 
on which food can be bought and health maintained in a family of 
five. Many families are spending far less than this each year. Can 
they save in money? Should these be expected to save? Why? 

14. a. The war in Europe cost i billion dollars per month 
during the first two years. The population of the warring 
nations was 450 million. Find the amount every citizen must 
save monthly to save as much as the war cost. 

b. Before the war, 300 million dollars were on deposit in the 
Bank of England alone. After one year of war, there were 900 
million dollars of deposits. What saving does this represent 
for each of the 36 million inhabitants of England during the 
first year of war ? What saving per month (approximate) ? 

Discussion. What is the Bank of England? Look it up in an 
encyclopedia or the World Almanac, and see how it is different from 
our banks. 

A newspaper article estimates that nearly 84 billions of dollars 
have been borrowed already (to November, 1917), by the countries at 



GENERAL PROBLEMS IN FOOD CONSERVATION 13 

war, besides money raised by taxation. How many months has the 
war gone on, up to January, 1918? Has the war cost more or less 
than a billion dollars a month? 

Our loans from June, 1917, to January, 1918, were 5800 million 
dollars. How much is this for every person in the country? At this 
rate, how much a year for each person? Write on the topic : " What 
Our Country is Spending for Me." Then discuss " Should I Help 
My Country? Why and How? " 

16. In 1916^ the following amounts were spent in the United 
States : 

Millions ov Dollars 

For patent medicines 300 

For tobacco 600 

For jewelry 200 

For wines and liquors 1669 

a. If all these amounts were saved, how much would be the 
total saving? 

6. At the rate of one billion dollars per month for the war, for 
how long would the total saving finance the war? 



AMONG OUR ENEMIES — LUXURIES AND BAD HABITS 



16. In the last 30 years our population increased 75 per cent, 
while our production of women's clothes and millinery increased 
as follows : 



Millinery . . 
Women's Clothes 



1884 



$ 9,580,000 
32,000,000 



1914 



$114,160,000 
473,880,000 



Inckease 



Percentaob 
Increase 



* Bulletin No. 73. (See Appendix, page 87.) 



14 FOOD PROBLEMS 

If the production of these two items had increased only as much 
as the population, how much would have been spent in 19 14? 
How much would thus have been saved in 1914 ? 

Discussion {problems IS and 16). Name some other ways of un- 
necessary spending which could be done away with or lessened. Disr 
cuss these to see how much of the money spent for them is really 
necessary. 

Why do you think the cost of millinery has increased so much 
in 30 years? Ask your mother or grandmother to tell you the cost 
of millinery and women's dress 10 or 20 years ago. Did people buy 
as much at stores? Did styles change as often? What other 
differences were there which would make expenditiures much lower 
then? 

How much is spent in America for chewing gimi? Is the chewing 
of gum a necessity? Is it right to use so much money for these pur- 
poses in times like these? How much sugar is used in gimi? What 
other materials are used? 

Name the prohibition states. Do you know of any laws against 
tobacco or patent medicines? (Ask a lawyer.) How has the war 
helped prohibition here? In Russia? In England? 



SAVE TO SERVE 



17. The United States Food Administration permits hotels to 
serve no more than 2 ounces of bread to any one person at a meal. 
If J oimce of bread is saved by this means for each meal eaten 
in hotels and restaurants, how much bread will be saved for each 
1000 meals eaten? How much flour, allowing f of the weight 
of the bread saved to be floiu:? 

18. Find the actual and approximate percentage increase 
from July, 1914, to June, 191 7, in the wholesale prices for these 
commodities : 



GENERAL PROBLEMS IN FOOD CONSERVATION 15 



Article 



Fresh Beef 
Bacon 
Lard . . 
Wheat . 
Flour . . 
Com meal 
White Potatoes 
Sugar . . . 



Unit or 
Measure 



Pound 
Pound 
Pound 
Bushel 
Barrel 
Pound 
Bushel 
Pound 



Price 
July, 
1914' 



S0.13 
.14 
.10 
.90 

4.59 
.015 

1. 21 

.042 



Price 



June 



1917 



i 



$ 0.16 

.24 

.21 

2.69 

13.89 

.039 
2.9s 
.075 



Price 
To-day 



Increase 
1914-1917 



Percentage 
Increase 
1914-1917 



19. Find the actual increase and the percentage increase of 
the retail price of the following articles : 



Article 



Sirloin Steak 
Pork Chops 
Bacon . . 
Lard . . . 
Eggs . . . 
Butter . . 
Milk . . . 
Bread . . 
Flour . . . 
Com meal . 
Potatoes . . 
Sugar . . 



Unit or 
Meai^ure 



Pound 

Pound 

Pound 

Pound 

Dozen 

Pound . 

Quart 

Loaf 

i Barrel 

Pound 

Peck 

Pound 



Price 
July. 
1914^ 



$0.27 
.22 
.27 

.15 

.30 

.34 
.09 

.05s 

.79 

.03 

.405 

.OS 



Price 
June, 
1917' 



$0.33 

.31 

.425 

.28 

.416 

.47 
.II 

1.085 

1.97 

.055 
.96 

.09 



Price 
To-day 



Increase 
1914-1917 



Approxi- 
mate Per- 
centage 
Increase 
1914-1917 



20. Counting 5 per cent to a square, draw bars representing 
the percentage increases in problems 18 and 19. (For method, 
see page xvii.) How do wholesale and retail prices compare, in 
amount and in increase? 

^ Bulletin No. 98. (See Appendix, page 88.) 



i6 



FOOD PROBLEMS 



Discussion (problems 18-20). Notice the difference between 
wholesale and retail prices. On which articles do people make the 
greatest percentage of profit? Are the prices in your locality to-day 
higher or lower than those of June, 1917 ? Higher for which articles? 
Lower for which? 

You know that it takes 4J bushels of wheat to make a barrel of 
flour. If wheat is $2.69 a bushel and flour $13.89 a barrel (problem 
18), how do wheat and flour compare in expense? 

Make up ten problems based on the facts in problems 18 and 19. 
Write a composition on some connected topic, like " From Wheat 
to Flour." 

Find out from your grandparents or a soldier of the Civil War 
what prices for these foods were during that war. If possible pre- 
pare a table comparing Civil War prices with those of to-day. Devise 
a way for showing the difference by using graphs. (See page xvii.) 

From newspapers and magazines obtain present prices in European 
countries and compare them with prices in America. 



WE MUST HAVE WHEAT TO SEND TO FRANCE 



21. In France the supply of meat and wheat has decreased 

as follows : ^ 



Native Wheat 
Cattle . . . 
Sheep . . 
Pigs ... . 



1913 



330,000,000 bushels 

14,790,000 head 

16,140,000 head 

7»o3S>ooo head 



191 6 



213,000,000 bushels 
12,340,000 head 
10,845,000 head 
4,360,000 head 



Loss 



Draw bars to represent the former and present supply letting 
I square = 1,000,000. If the 1913 supply of wheat was just 
enough to feed France, what per cent of the amount needed does 
she grow now? 

^ Bulletin No. 98. (See Appendix, page 88.) 



GENERAL PROBLEMS IN FOOD CONSERVATION 17 



TO WIN — PRODUCE MORE, EAT LESS 



22. Nineteen million acres of spring wheat were sown in 
191 7. . The average yield per acre for the last ten years was 
13.2 bushels. 

a. How much will be produced at this rate? 

b. In 1915 the average yield was 18.4 bushels per acre. How 
much would be produced at this rate? 

c. How much more would be produced at the 1915 rate? 

Discussion. Bulletin 64 (page 87) gives an idea of yields in various 
years. What do you think happens to prices (i) when the yield is 
poor, (2) when the yield is good, (3) when there is a war? Why? 

Find statistics showing yield for your state by writing the state 
college of agriculture. Does your state produce much wheat? What 
is the average yield per acre? 

Color a map to show the states which produce most wheat. 

23. Exports from the United States to Europe of the neces- 
sary foods have increased as follows : ^ 



Dairy (butter, cheese, milk) 

Meat 

Wheat 



expcmlted before the 
War 



26,029,000 lbs. 
493,848,000 lbs. 
120,000,000 bu. 



EsTDiATED Exports 
1917 



346,028,000 lbs. 

1^833,283,000 lbs. 

577,000,000 bu. 



Find the number of tons and percentage increase in tons 
exported. Allowing 10,000 tons to a space, draw bars repre- 
senting exports before the war and now. 



^ Bulletin No. 98. (See Appendix, page 88.) 



CHAPTER III 

WHEAT PROBLEMS 

24. In 191 7 the wheat crop of the United States was 656 million 
bushels and that of Canada 250 million bushels, while their 
combined reserve from the previous year was 100 million bushels. 
The United States and Canada needed 550 million bushels of 
wheat for flour. They also needed 90 million bushels for seed, 
10 million bushels for other industries, and 50 million bushels to 
carry over to 1918. How many bushels were left for export? 



BREAD WILL HELP TO WIN THE WAR 



Discussion. Compare these crop figures, secured from bulletin 
No. 69 (see Appendix, page 87), with those given in your school geog- 
raphy. Bulletin No. 64 also gives figures for wheat crops. Is our 
191 7 crop above or below normal? Compare figures with those 
given in problem 2, page 6. 

What " other industries '' need wheat, besides flour mills? Why 
do we need a surplus of wheat to " carry over " to the next year? 

In old times when the grain crop failed in any one country, there 
was a famine. Is this true now? Why? Compare "crop failure" 
with a " coal famine " or " sugar famine." Do these terms mean 
that there is not enough of these articles, or simply that there is not 
enough in some one place? 

Read in Bulletin No. 69 how much wheat we need to export. Read 
Bulletin No. 75 to find why we cannot send com instead. 

18 



WHEAT PROBLEMS 19 

25. In 191 7, 6 bushels of wheat per person were consumed for 
flour, seed, etc., in the United States and 2J bushels per person 
were exported. 

a. How many bushels did we raise for each person? 

h. In 1 91 8 we need to export 4 bushels per person. How 
many bushels of wheat does this leave for each person in this 
country? 

c. How much less is this than was used in this country by each 
person in 191 7? (Assume that this year's crop is the same as 
last year's.) 

Discussion. How can we estimate the amount of wheat used in 
our homes? In what forms do we buy wheat? Make a list of these. 

Can you estimate the amount of flour used in your home each week? 
Can you suggest substitutes for some of these items to reduce the 
amount of wheat used in your family? How much or what part do 
you think might be saved by using these substitutes? 

26. Wisconsin sows loi thousand acres of winter wheat. 
The average yield per acre is about 15 bushels. 

a. About how much winter wheat can be expected? 

h. The nation asks that Wisconsin sow 29 thousand more 
acres. How much will this increase the wheat crop? 

c. If pure bred grain is used for seed, an acre may yield as 
much as 40 bushels of winter wheat. If better farming methods 
raised the average of wheat in Wisconsin to 25 bushels per acre, 
how much more wheat would this produce on loi thousand 
acres? On 130 thousand acres? 

Discussion. Can you find the average yield of wheat per acre 
in Canada? In France? In Germany? How does it compare 
with the yield in this country? Why is there so much difference? 

What are some of the ways of improving the yield of wheat on a 
farm? 



20 FOOD PROBLEMS 

What are some of the reasons why a crop may be poor? When 
you have given all you can think of, refer to Table XV, page 8i, 
for others. 

27. The cost of turning 4.5 bushels of wheat into a 196-pound 
barrel of flour and marketing the barrel of flour should be about 
$1.80, according to the United States Food Administration. 
Wheat last year cost $1.60 a bushel on the average. 

a. What should flour have cost a barrel? 

ft. The average price of flour in 191 7 was $14 a barrel. How 
much more than the cost of production and marketing as 
shown in (a) ? 

c. 10 million barrels of flour are marketed each month. How 
much profit was made each month by manufacturers, wholesalers, 
and other flour distributors i 

Discussion. What are the processes from wheat on the farm to 
flour in the pantry? Where does most of the $1.80 expense enter? 

What has been done to stop the making of too high profits? 

Flour cost about $1.50 for a sack containing |- of a barrel in Chicago 
in January, 1918. How does this compare with the 1917 price ? Look 
up present prices of wheat and of flour, and see whether there is 
reason to beUeve that too much " excess profit " is being made. 



AMERICAN WHEAT MUST FEED THE ALLIES 



28. There are (January, 1918) 300 million bushels of wheat 
in Australia awaiting shipment to the Allies. 

a. If there are 60 pounds of wheat to a bushel, how many 
tons of wheat are there in Australia? 

b. The average freight car has a carrying capacity of 80,000 
poimds of wheat. How many tons of wheat will each car carry? 



WHEAT PROBLEMS 21 

c. How many cars of this size will be necessary to transport 
thfe 300 million bushels of wheat mentioned above? 

d. How many ships with an average carrying capacity of 
1600 tons? 



THE WORLD IS SHORT OF SHIPS 



29. a. It takes freight about 30 days to go between Australia 
and England. How many boats of 1600 tons carrying capacity 
would it take to transport 9 million tons of wheat within 6 months? 

6. It takes about 10 days from New York to England. How 
many boats would be needed to transport the same amoimt of 
wheat? Do you see why Australia's wheat cannot be used to 
feed the Allies? 

Discussion (problems 28, 29), What is " tonnage "? How does 
the United States rank among the nations in " tonnage " ? Has 
this rank changed since the beginning of the war? 

If 6 bushels of wheat are needed for each person, how far would 
Australia's wheat supply go to feed the population of England? 

Discuss the reasons why " the world is short of ships." 

Show why England is unable to ship wheat from Australia, Russia, 
and India to relieve her present need. 



IS EVERY OUNCE OF FLOUR WORTH SAVING? 



30. Let us suppose that the average waste of wheat flour per 
family in the United States is i ounce per week (enough to make 
I J slices of bread). 

a. How many poimds would be wasted in one week by the 
20 million families in this coimtry? 

b. How many poimds per year? 

c. About how many barrels in a year? (Allow 196 pounds 
to the barrel.) 



22 FOOD PROBLEMS 

31. It takes 4 J bushels of wheat to make i barrel of flour. 
How many bushels of wheat would it take to supply the yearly 
waste described in problem 30? 



WASTE NOT — WANT NOT 



32. About 15 bushels of wheat are grown to the acre. How 
many acres of land would it take to supply a yearly waste of 
1410 million bushels of wheat? 

33. There are 7.5 square miles in a certain city and 640 acres 
to the square mile. About how many cities this size would it 
take to supply groimd enough to produce wheat for a yearly 
waste as described in problem 32? 

Discussion (problems 32, 33), What is the area of the dty or 
county in which you live? Compare this with the amount of land 
found in problem 32. How many loo-acre farms would it take? 
What part of the total area of your state? Make a square to repre- 
sent the land which would be needed on an outline map of your state, 
and color the square. Give the map the title of " What an ounce a 
week waste means," or some original title. Put an explanation below 
the title. 

34. John Smith uses 5.3 bushels of wheat in the form of flour 
each year. If it takes 4.5 bushels of wheat to make a igd-poimd 
barrel of flour, how many poimds of flour does he use each 
year? (Give answer correct to nearest poimd.) 



WAR BREAD IS GOOD TO EAT 
WAR BREAD SAVES THE WHEAT 



35. It takes about three fourths of a pound of wheat flour to 
make i loaf of bread. How many loaves represent a yearly use 
of 237 pounds of flour? 



WHEAT PROBLEMS 23 

36. In making war bread, Mrs. Smith uses 9 ounces of wheat 
flour and 3 oimces of other flour for each loaf. In a year the 
Smith family uses 720 loaves of bread. How much wheat 
flour do they use if only war bread is eaten? How much wheat 
flour do they save by using war bread? 



THERE IS NO LITTLE ENEMY 



37. The average use of wheat flour in this coimtry is about 
4.9 poimds per person each week. 

a. If on wheatless days no wheat flour is eaten, and normal 
amoimts are used on other days, what will be the average saving 
in flour by each person each week? 

b. For a city of 30 thousand people? 

c. For the whole nation of 100 million people? 

d. About how many i96-poimd barrels will be saved by the 
nation weekly? 

Discussion. Can you estimate how much flour is used in your 
home? Is it more or less than 4.9 pounds per week? Is your use of 
flour less than it was a year ago? What substitutes do you use? 

38. Suppose every one of the 100,000 people in a certain city 
decided to use war bread, in which 25 per cent of the wheat 
flour is replaced by some other flour. The average consimap- 
tion of flour is about five poimds weekly per person. 

a. How many poimds of flour each week could be saved for 
the nation in this city alone? 

b. How many pounds could be saved each week in the city 
or county in which you live? 

Discussion. What flours are used in making war bread? Find 
from the bulletins listed in the Appendix as many different recipes 



24 FOOD PROBLEMS 

for war bread as you can. Will you try at least one of them? What 
ones have you already tried? 



OBSERVE WHEATLESS DAY 



39. Mrs. Lee finds from the government bulletins that she must 
reduce her use of wheat flour 25 per cent to do her part in saving 
food. By observing wheatless day she saves | of the 21. pounds 
of flour she formerly used. On the other 6 days she saves 6 
ounces per day by serving more vegetables so as to use less bread. 

a. How much flour does she save weekly? 

b. Is she saving enough, too little, or more than enough? 

c. If every one of the 20 million families in the coimtry saved 
as much, how many 196-pound barrels could be sent every week 
to feed our Allies (approximate) ? 



USE ALL THE WHEAT GRAIN FOR FOOD 



40. Only 72 per cent of the wheat grain is used in making 
white flour. Whole wheat flour contains 85 per cent of the 
grain. It is also more healthful than white flour. Why ? 

a. How many poimds of whole wheat flour could be made 
from the wheat used to make a 196-pound barrel of white flour? 

b. Suppose the people in a city together use 3600 barrels of 
white flour yearly. How many barrels would they save if whole 
wheat flour were used? How many poimds? (196 pounds 
make i barrel.) 

41. One himdred pounds of wheat when ground into whole 
wheat flour supply 70.96 pounds of digestible food material, as 
against 57.00 pounds when ground into white flour. What per 
cent more food for human beings could be supplied if all wheat 
were made into whole wheat flour? 



WHEAT PROBLEMS 25 

42. A flour manufacturer who has been milling only white 
flour, using 72 per cent of the grain, decides to grind one fourth 
of his wheat into graham flour, which uses 90 per cent of the 
grain. In a year he buys i million bushels of wheat. 

a. Find the nimiber of bushels of waste under the old plan. 

b. Find the amount saved by making both white flour and 
graham flour. 



WASTE NO WHEAT 
HELP WIN THE WAR 



43. Mrs. Gray throws away stale bread amoimting to a slice 
a day. 

a. If bread cost 10 cents for a loaf of 12 slices, how much 
money is she throwing away daily? 

h. If every one of the families in your city or coimty ^ wastes 
a slice of bread a day, how much money is wasted each day? 
Each month? Each year? 

c. At the same rate, what would be the yearly waste for the 
20 million f amiKes in the United States ? 

Discussion. What are the uses of stale bread? Of bread crumbs? 
Show how crumbs can be substituted for flour in cakes and desserts. 
Which contain more nourishment, bread crumbs or flour? Why? 

The United States Food Administration suggests that bread be 
cut at the table as needed, and King (Jeorge of England does this. 
Why is this advisable? What waste is there in cutting bread? Can 
this waste be stopped? 

44. By not eating the crusts of her bread, Mary wastes an 
average of f of a sltce of bread a day. 

^ To find the number of families, divide the total population by 5, the size of 
the average family. 



26 FOOD PROBLEMS 

a. How many slices does she waste in a year of 360 days? 
How many loaves? (12 slices to the loaf.) 

b. What is the cost of the bread wasted at 10 cents a loaf? 

c. Calculate the waste in bread and money if each of the school 
children in your school wasted f of a slice of bread daily by 
throwing away the crusts of bread. 




46. Mrs. Grant cuts and serves a loaf containing 12 slices of 
bread each day for dinner, of which only 10 slices are eaten. 
She uses about half the stale pieces and throws the rest 
away. 

a. In how many days does Mrs. Grant waste a lo-cent loaf? 

ft. What is the money waste per year? 

c. There are i^ million families in the State of Illinois. If 
each home wastes as much bread yearly as Mrs. Grant does, 
how much is the total money waste during the year? 

46. A baker has been baking about 1000 loaves of bread 
daily. Some days he has not enough and nms out of bread 
before night. Some days he has too much. On an average, 
48 loaves of bread per day are left over. He uses about half 
the stale bread for other purposes. 

a. How much flour does he waste each day (f pound per 
loaf) ? 

ft. How much money, if he loses 4.5 cents on each loaf not 
sold? 

c. The baker decides to ask his customers to order bread 
24 hours before they need it, so he can know how much to 
bake. Now he wastes an average of only 2 loaves a day. How 
much flour does he save? How much money? 



WHEAT PROBLEMS 



27 



PROPER MACHINERY SAVES 

TIME 

LABOR 

MONEY 

MATERIALS 



47. Mrs. Gray bought a meat grinder for $2.40 to use in 
grinding stale bread to use in place of flour, leftover meats to 
use in hash, croquettes, etc. Through using the grinder, she 
is able to save weekly one fourth of a lo-cent loaf of bread 
and half a poimd of meat, average value 27 cents a pound. 
How long will it be before she will save enough to pay for 
the grinder? What will be her net saving in a year? 



USE STALE BREAD FOR COOKING 



48. John and AKce decide to save stale bread crumbs to use 
in cooking. They save bread scraps, dry them, and put them 
through the grinder to make cnunbs. In a week they have 
two cups of cnunbs, which their mother uses in place of 2 cups 
(i poimd) of flour in cooking. She agrees to let them have all 
the money they save in this way. 

a. If flour is 6 cents per poimd, how much do they save in a 
week? In a year? 

h. If each of the children in your schoolroom did as well, 
how much flour could they save in a week? In a year? 

c. How much money, if flour is 6 cents a pound ? 

49. Mrs. Black saves stale bread, but throws away cold 
breakfast mufl^s amounting to about i a day. Mrs. Lee saves 
muffins which are left and splits and toasts them for breakfast. 
If each muffin contfiins one half oimce of flour, how much flour 
does Mrs. Black waste in a year which is saved by Mrs. Lee? 



28 FOOD PROBLEMS 

50. One family wasted one fourth of a loaf of bread a week 
because of mold. If through proper care all the bread could 
have been saved, how much bread could be saved in a year? 
What value at lo cents a loaf? 



USE OTHER FOODS IN PLACE OF WHEAT 



61. The average consumption of potatoes in the United States 
is 2.6 bushels for each person each year. Before the war Grer- 
many consumed 9.4 bushels per person, England 8.3 bushels, 
and France 7.7 bushels. Compare the amount used per person 
in the United States with the amount used by each person in 
Germany, France, England. How many times as much is 
used by each person in Germany, England, France, as is used 
in the United States ? Illustrate these facts by graphs. 



COULD WE USE MORE POTATOES? 
SHOULD WE DO SO? WHY? 



52. Our potato harvest this year has increased from 285 mil- 
lion bushels to 462 million bushels. 

a. What is the per cent of increase? 

h. How many bushels have we available for food per person 
per year? 

c. How many pounds per person per month? Per day? 
(60 lbs. = I bu. potatoes.) 

Discussion {problems SI, 52). Mr. P. G. Holden of the Inter- 
national Harvester Company suggests that we use war bread made 
from small potatoes, using one third potatoes and two thirds wheat 
flour. 

On the next page is a tested recipe for potato war bread. Try it. 



WHEAT PROBLEMS 29 

How to make Potato War Bread 

I cup sweet milk i teaspoon salt 

1 cup potato I teaspoon sugar 

2 cups flour ^ yeast cake 

These measurements make one loaf. Increase ingredients accord- 
ing to number of loaves you wish to make. One yeast cake will make 
3 or 4 loaves. 

Heat milk to boiling point, then cool to lukewarm. Bake or boil 
potatoes, then mash or put through ricer. Dissolve yeast cake in the 
milk. Make a sponge as follows : mix milk, yeast cake, salt, sugar, 
all the mashed or riced potatoes, and \ of the flour. Beat well, let 
stand over night to rise. In the morning add balance of flour — 
let rise again until double in bulk, then mold into a loaf; let rise 
again to double in bulk, then bake 40 minutes in a moderate oven. 
A little more flour will be required if potatoes are not mealy. 



EAT POTATOES; SAVE WHEAT 



63. Dorothy's mother pays 40 cents a peck for potatoes, con- 
taining 50 potatoes to the peck. She decides to serve one extra 
potato each day to each of the four members of he^. family, in 
place of 2 slices of bread apiece. A loaf of bread containing 
12 slices costs 10 cents. 

a. Does Dorothy's mother save or lose money by substituting 
potato for part of the bread used? 

6. How much does she save or lose each day? Each month? 
Each year? 



POTATOES SAVED IRELAND FROM FAMINE 
POTATOES CAN HELP SAVE US FROM DEFEAT 



64. One medium-sized baked potato is equal in food value 
to 2 slices of bread. A slice of bread contains about f ounce 



30 FOOD PROBLEMS 

of flour. If every one of the 340 thousand people living in 
Seattle used a potato instead of two slices of bread each day, 
how much flour would be saved daily ? Each month ? Each 
year? 

66. a. What would be the saving of flour if each of the 
7 million persons in the State of Illinois saved i^ ounces of 
flour daily by substituting a baked potato for two slices of 
bread ? What would be saved per year ? 

b. How many i96-poimd barrels of flour per year? 



VICTORY ABROAD IS BEING WEIGHED UPON GROCERS' 

SCALES AT HOME 



66. Mrs. Harris has been serving prepared wheat to her family 
for breakfast food. She uses two 15-cent packages a week. 
She learns that a 12-cent package of rolled oats will last a 
week, and that it contains 4 times as much nourishment as a 
package of prepared wheat, so she decides to use oatmeal. 

a. How much money does she save per week? Per year? 

b. Compare the nourishment in 2 packages of prepared wheat 
and I package of rolled oats. 



EAT TO LIVE, NOT LIVE TO EAT 



67. The cook in the Ames' home makes muflSns for breakfast, 
using 2 cups of white flour. In order to save wheat, she uses 
only I J cups of white flour and for the rest uses cormneal, 
oatmeal, buckwheat, rye, barley, rice, or potatoes to make 
muflSns. 

a. What per cent of the flour formerly used does she 
save? 



WHEAT PROBLEMS 



31 



b. How many cups will she save in a year? How many 
poimds ? (4 cups = I pound.) About what part of a 196-pound 
barrel ? 

58. According to a bulletin issued by the Nebraska College 
of Agriculture (Bulletin 2, Appendix) the cost of a loaf of bread 
made with flour and with various wheat substitutes is shown 
below. 



White bread 

Whole wheat bread .... 

Graham bread 

Home ground wheat flour bread 
Oatmeal bread (rolled oats) 
Oatmeal bread (steel cut oats) . 

Rye bread 

Com meal bread 

Com flour bread 

Rice bread 



Cost for 
Each Loaf 



9.56 cents 
8.08 cents 
9.86 cents 
5.54 cents 
6.38 cents 
8.07 cents 
7.03 cents 
6.64 cents 
8.72 cents 
8.80 cents 



Total Amount Wheat Flour 
Used 



3 cups 
2J cups 
2i cups 
2J cups 
2 cups 

2 cups 

J cup 

2 cups 

2J cups 
I J cups 



Using white bread as a standard, find the gain or loss by using 
other flours, in cost, and amoimt of wheat flour used. 

Draw bars on construction paper to represent the cost of these 
breads, allowing i cent to a space. Also draw bars to represent 
the amoimt of wheat flour used, allowing J cup to a space. 



MORE CORN — LESS WHEAT 
KEEPS THE ALLIES FROM DEFEAT 



69.^ We produce about 2750 million bushels of corn in a 
year. We export (in peace times) about 5 per cent. We use for 
human food about 8 per cent. The rest is used for animal food. 



32 FOOD PROBLEMS 

a. Find the amounts used for export, for human food, and 
for animal food. 

h. This year we have a corn crop 25 per cent higher than usual, 
and fewer meat animals to be fed. Allowing 10 per cent of this 
year's crop for export, and 70 per cent for animal foody how 
many bushels will be left for hiunan food? 

c. How many times as much corn should we eat this year as 
formerly? 

60. Mrs. Foster decides to use more cornmeal, as it saves the 
wheat and is cheaper and more nourishing than wheat flour. 
She has been making 12 loaves of white bread weekly, using 
f poimd of flour per loaf, and has used 6 pounds of flour other- 
wise. She substitutes cornmeal for one fourth of the flour in 
the bread she makes. If she now uses 5 poimds of flour weekly 
for other purposes, how much of the wheat flour formerly 
used does she save? 

61. Cornmeal gives a certain amoimt of nourishment for 
2.8 cents, while the cost of white flour to give the same amoimt 
is 4.8 cents. If Mrs. Cook buys 28 pounds of cornmeal at 
6^ cents a poimd, find how much she wpxild have to pay for 
white flour to obtain the same amoimt of nutriment. How 
much does she save by buying cornmeal? 

62. Alice and Hugh refuse to eat corn bread instead of wheat 
bread, although neither of them has ever tasted it. They 
each use 5 pounds of wheat flour a week, costing about 7 cents a 
pound. What would be the saving in wheat flour and in money 
if they would substitute for i J pounds of wheat flour, i J poimds 
of cornmeal at 6 J cents a pound? Answer for i week. For a 
year. 



CHAPTER IV 

MEAT PROBLEMS 

63. We need to export one billion pounds of meat more than 
usual to our Allies this year. 

a. To make this possible, how many pounds should be saved 
in each^of our 20 million homes during the year? 

b. How many pounds a week ? (Coimt 50 weeks to the year.) 

c. If the average family contains 5 persons, what part of a 
pound per person per week? 

Discussion. How much is an oimce of meat? About how many 
ounces do you eat at dinner? Which way would you save more, 
by eating an ounce less a day for a week, or by observing meatless 
day and eating the usual amount on other days? 

Who can find out the amount of meat doctors consider necessary 
for the average girl or boy? How do you find it compares with the 
amount you eat? Remember that you are not expected to deprive 
yourself of necessary food, but to avoid waste and whenever possible 
to use substitutes. What meat substitutes do you use? 

What is a soldier's daily ration of meat? (See Table XH, 
Appendix.) About how much meat does your family save on each 
meatless day? How many meatless days must you observe to save 
enough meat to supply a soldier for a week ? How many members 
in your family? If your family observes meatless day for one year 
(50 weeks) bow many days could a soldier be served with meat from 
the equivalent of the amount you have saved? 

61. In 1900, 248.2 pounds of meat per person were produced 
in the United States. In 1915, only 219.6 pounds were pro- 

33 



34 FOOD PROBLEMS 

duced. In 1915, the average number of pounds used by each 
person was 193.5 pounds. 

a. What was the total amount of meat produced in the 
United States in 1900? In 1915? 

h. How much was used up in 191 5? 

c. How much was left for export in 1915? (Population of 
United States in 1900 — 76 million ; in 191 5 — 100 million.) 

Discussion. From yoiu* geography, find which three states lead 
in the production of beef. Pork. Mutton. Of which of these three 
does your state produce the most? Where does your state rank in 
the production of these? What reasons can you give for this? 



PORK IS THE FIRST MEAT TO SAVE 



66. In 191 5, the average meat consimiption for each person 



was^ 



Beef 82.7 pounds 

Mutton 7.0 " 

Pork 103.5 " 

Other 0.3 

Total 193.5 






What per cent of the total amoimt used was beef, mutton, 
pork, other meats? 

Discussion. Why must we export more meat to oin Allies? What 
is affecting their meat production? Why cannot they go without 
meat? WhaX kinds of meat must we send to oin AUies? What 
kinds of meat cannot be sent? Why? 

66. The per capita consimaption of meat in the United States 
in 1915 was 193.5 poimds. How much per day? (One year = 
360 days.) Make your answer correct to 4 decimals. 

* Data secured by correspondence with Bureau of Crop Estimates, U. S. Dept. 
of Agriculture, Washington, D. C. 



MEAT PROBLEMS 35 

Discussion. The per capita consumption of meat in England is 
much smaller than in this country, and in France is smaller still. 
Can you give some reasons for this? How many pounds of meat 
does your family use in a month? How much is this for each person 
per day? Is this more or less than the average amount each day? 



A TEMPERATE DIET FREES FROM DISEASE 

Poor Richard's Ahnanac 



67. In 191 5 the average amount of meat consumed by each 
person in the United States was 193.5 pounds a year. Experi- 
ments show that the adult man does best on J pound of meat 
a day. How many pounds more than he needs does he consimie 
per year? 



THE WHEAT AND MEAT WE DO NOT EAT 
WILL HELP TO SAVE US FROM DEFEAT 



68. In 1907 the population of the United States was 78 mil- 
lion. To-day the population is about 100 million. What in- 
crease in population has occurred during the past ten years? 
What percentage increase? 

69. Our exports of pork and pork products have increased from 
a pre-war average of 500 million pounds to if billion pounds last 
year. What is the percentage of increase in the export of pork? 

Discussion {problems 68 and 69). To-day we have 12 miUion fewer 
sheep and 11 miUion fewet cattle than we had 15 years ago. Give 
five or more reasons for the increased cost of meat. Give reasons 
for the decrease in meat production. 

What products other than food are made scarcer by the decrease 
in the number of sheep and cattle? 

Why do our Allies ask for more pork than beef? Give several 
reasons. 



36 FOOD PROBLEMS 

70. One third of the total amount spent on food in the United 
States is spent on meat. Our eating would be more healthful 
if I instead of J were spent this way. 

a. if by observing meatless day i of the meat formerly used 
is saved, how much more must we save to reduce our use of 
meat to J of the total food used? 

b. The average number of poimds of meat used by each per- 
son in the United States is 193.5 pounds. How many poimds 
less should each person use per year ? 



MOST PEOPLE EAT TOO MUCH MEAT 



71. Athletes in training are allowed only i as much meat as 
formerly. 

a. If the 100 million persons in the United States should 
reduce the amount of meat used to ^ of what it was in 191 5 
(193.5 pounds per person per year) through the observance of 
meatless day, how many pounds of meat would be saved? 

b. At 25 cents a pound, what would be the total value of 
the meat saved in a year? 

72. Assmne that i oimce of meat is wasted each day in each 
of the 20 million homes in the United States. 

a. How many pounds? How many pounds per year 
(360 days) ? 

b. If the average dressed weight of cattle is about 525 
pounds, how many cattle would it take to supply this annual 
waste? 

73. Sirloin steak contains 59 per cent lean, 32 per cent fat, 
9 per cent bone. The shank stew of beef contains no bone, 
83 per cent lean, and 17 per cent fat. Find from your butcher 
the price of each of these cuts per pound. About how many 



MEAT PROBLEMS 37 

ounces of lean are purchased in i poimd of each? What 
saving is there in buying the shank stew cut of beef? 



LEARN TO USE CHEAP AND NUTRITIOUS CUTS OF MEAT 



74. Mrs. Black bought 2^ pounds of round steak at 26 cents 
per pound. Lastead of cooking it so as to soften the tough 
tissues, she fries it. The result is that ^ of the steak is so tough 
it cannot be eaten. Lastead of grinding the leftover part for 
hash, she throws it away. 

a. What is the money waste ? 

b. Suppose this happens once a week in each of the 8000 
families in Cedar Rapids. What is the loss per week ? Per year ? 

c. Figure the waste for all the families represented in your 
schoolroom. 



NEVER SERVE MEAT MORE THAN ONCE A DAY 



76. Mrs. Brown makes up leftover meat into croquettes. 
She makes the croquettes too large, so that each of the five 
members of her family leaves J of a croquette, which is wasted. 
If the materials and cooking of the 5 croquettes cost her 18 cents, 
what is the money waste? If each croquette weighs 6 oimces 
and is half meat, how much meat is wasted ? 

76. Mary and her brother David go out to a party. Though 
they do not like the meat which is served, they each take a por- 
tion and eat about yd- of it. If the portions cost 8 cents apiece, 
and weigh 4 ounces, how much money and meat are wasted by 
taking food which is not wanted? 

77. A lamb stew costing about 30 cents was placed on a din* 
ner table and after the meal one third of the stew remained. 



38 FOOD PROBLEMS 

The dish was carelessly left in a place where insects and flies 
got at it and because of its condition was later thrown away. 

a. What was the value in money which was wasted? 

b. If every one of the 20 million families of the United States 
wasted an equal amount per week, what would be the value in 
money wasted per month? 



SOLDIERS MUST HAVE MEAT 



78. Each soldier in the training camps is allowed ij poimds 
of meat daily. Suppose that by observing meatless day each of 
the 500,000 families in Chicago saves i| poimds of meat. 

a. How many poimds of meat would be saved? 

b. For how many days would the saving made by one meat- 
less day in Chicago feed a regiment of 2000 soldiers? 

c. At the same rate, what would the i^ million families in 
Illinois save? In your state? 

d. For how many days would this saving feed a regiment of 
soldiers, containing 2000 men? 



USE ALL MEAT BONES TO MAKE SOUP 



79. Mrs. Smith has never used leftovers of meat. Now she 
decides to save all scraps for hash, croquettes, or other dishes. 
She finds that on the average she saves 18 ounces of meat a 
week, or 9 per cent of the total amount her family formerly ate 
during one week. 

a. Find the amoxmt they now eat during one week. 

b. Through observing meatless day, they plan to save 2I 
pounds more weekly. How much meat does Mrs. Smith save 
altogether ? 



MEAT PROBLEMS 



39 



NONE PREACHES BETTER THAN THE ANT; 
AND SHE SAYS NOTHING 

Poor Richard's Almanac 



80. John ate \ pound of meat every day. Since we must 
save meat to give our Allies what they need, he plans to eat 
f poimd less each day. What part of a pound will John then 
eat each day? How many pounds will he save in 360 days? 



USE MEAT SUBSTITUTES 



81. Mrs. Grant serves codfish balls once a week in place of 
2 poimds of meat. She uses | pound of salt codfish at 28 cents 
a poimd, I egg at 60 cents a dozen, and .5 ounce of oleomargarine 
at 32 cents a pound. Formerly she had used 2 poimds of meat 
at 32 cents per poimd. Does she save or lose in money, and 
how much? How many pounds of meat does she save in a 
year? 

82. Beans are $9 a bushel. It takes f bushel to seed an 
acre. The average yield is 11 bushels per acre. 

a. If the labor expense is $25 per acre, what will be the 
profit on 10 acres with an average yield? 

6. With care, a yield of 20 bushels per acre is possible. How 
much more profit from 10 acres of beans than with an average 
yield, if the labor cost is now $40 per acre? 



CULTIVATE A TASTE FOR SIMPLE FOODS 



83. Many people are using fish, eggs, or vegetables in place 
of meat 2 days every week. How many pounds of meat could 
be saved by the pupils of your school in 6 weeks if each pupil 



40 FOOD PROBLEMS 

observed 2 meatless days a week and so saved .4 pound of meat 
twice each week? For how many days would the meat saved 
feed a soldier who eats 1.25 pounds of meat daily? 



SAVE MEAT BY EATING FISH 



84. The price of salted codfish is 35 per cent less than that 
of the fresh fish. How many pounds of salt fish will $10 buy, 
and how many poimds of fresh fish, if the fresh fish is 35 cents 
a pound ? 

Discussion. In addition to being cheaper, salt fish has much more 
food value per pound than fresh fish. Mackerel, for instance, con- 
tains about 22 per cent of protein when salted and 18 per cent when 
fresh. Why is this so? 

Does your family ever use salt or smoked fish? If not, do you 
know why? On request, the United States Bureau of Fisheries (see 
bulletin No. 102, Appendix, page 88) will send you splendid collections 
of recipes and directions for using fish. Do you ever have " creamed 
salt fish in pepper cases,'' or * salt fish omelet," or " mock caviar " 
at your home? Many people find these dishes delicious, and they 
are good foods. 



EAT MORE FISH 



86. In 1913 there were canned on the Pacific coast about 387 
million poimds of salmon. The value of this " pack '' was 
38J million dollars. 

a. How much money value for each poimd of fish? 

b. How many pounds of canned salmon alone does this allow 
to be consumed by each person in the United States ? 

c. Compare the price of a i6-ounce can of salmon with that 
of a poimd of beefsteak. The food value is about the same. 
How do prices compare? 



MEAT PROBLEMS 41 

86. Mrs. Long decides to double her use of fish, in order to 
save the meat and to give variety to the meals she serves* She 
uses salt or smoked fish twice a week, and fresh fish twice a 
week. La all, she saves i| pounds of meat weekly for each of 
the five members of her family. 

a. How much does she save in all? 

b. If the fish costs 7 cents a poimd less than meat on the 
average, how much money does she save weekly? 

Discussion. Why cannot our soldiers use fish in place of meat 
to a very great extent? What varieties of food fish do you know? 
Make a list. Take some one, such as salmon, and find in how many 
ways it may be prepared for the table. 



AN EXPENSIVE FOOD IS OFTEN A POOR FOOD 
AN INEXPENSIVE FOOD IS OFTEN A GOOD FOOD 



87. Mrs. Stuyvesant is determined to have the best of every- 
thing. She pays an average of 35 cents a poimd for the 14 pounds 
of meat that her family eats each week. Mrs. Gray gets as 
much food value in a more healthful form by buying 

4 pounds meat, average 30 cents a pound 

1 dozen eggs ©75 cents a dozen 
8 quarts milk @ 1 2 cents 

2 poimds cottage cheese ©15 cents 
I poimd salt codfish ©35 cents 

I poimd cheese ©35 cents 
I can salmon @ 30 cents 

a. How much do Mrs. Gray and Mrs. Stuyvesant each spend? 

b. How much less does Mrs. Gray's food cost her? 

c. At this rate, how much less will food of this sort cost 
Mrs. Gray than it costs Mrs. Stuyvesant in a year? 



42 



FOOD PROBLEMS 



88. Cottage cheese made from skim milk is recommended by 
the United States Department of Agriculture ^ as a substitute 
for meat. For supplying nourishment to the body, one poimd of 
cottage cheese equals : ^ 

1.27 pounds sirloin steak 

1.09 pounds round steak 

1.52 pounds chicken, duck, goose or turkey 

1.46 pounds fresh ham 

1.44 pounds smoked ham 

1.58 pounds loin pork chop 

1. 3 1 poimds hind leg of lamb 

1.37 pounds breast of veal 

Find from your butcher the market cost per pound of each of 
the meats listed. Then fill out the following table, showing 
how much saving there is in using one poimd of cottage cheese 
over using equiv^alent amounts of the meats listed. 



Meat 


Amount 

(Equivalent to 

I Lb. 

Cottage 

Cheese 


Cost i Lb. 
Cottage 
Cheese 


Cost 
I Lb. 
Meat 


Cost 
Equiva- 
lent 
Amount 
OF Meat 


Difference 

IN Cost 

BETWEEN Meat 

and Cottage 

Cheese 


Sirloin Steak . . . 


1.27 lbs. 


1 8 cents 


42 cents 


53 cents 


35 cents 


Sirloin Steak . . 




1.27 lbs. 










Round Steak . . 




1. 09 lbs. 










Fowl 




1.52 lbs. 










Fresh Ham . . . 




1.46 lbs. 










Smoked Ham . . 




1.44 lbs. 










Loin Pork Chop . 




1.58 lbs. 










Leg of Lamb 




1. 3 1 lbs. 










Breast of Veal . 




1.37 lbs. 











1 Bulletin No. 77. (See Appendix.) 
* Bulletin No. 29. (See Appendix.) 



MEAT PROBLEMS 43 



LEARN TO ENJOY EVERY WHOLESOME FOOD 

DON'T BE FINICKY 



89. The average use of milk for each person in this country 
is about i pint daily. 

a. How many quarts, on an average, are used daily by all 
the people in your city or coimty? 

b. If the amoimt used is doubled and half a pound of meat 
can be saved for each additional quart of milk used, how many 
pounds of meat can be saved in your city or county alone ? Would 
this be a good plan? Why? 

Discussion (problems 88 and 89). Why are these problems in- 
cluded under "meat" rather than milk? Does your mother ever 
make cottage cheese? How is it made? 



CHAPTER V 
PROBLEMS ON BUTTER AND OTHER FATS 

90. The daily consumption of fats per person before the 
war was ^ 

United States 3.42 ounces 

England 3. 11 ounces 

Germany 2.3 ounces 

Austria-Hungary i.i ounces 

France 1.5 oimces 

Italy 1.81 ounces 

Russia 91 ounce 

Japan 85 oimce 

a. Taking 2 ounces daily as a standard, what per cent more 
or less is used in each of the countries listed? 

6. How does our use of fat compare in percentage with that 
of France? With Japan? 

Discussion. How do we use fat? Name the ways in which we 
use fats in a pure form (for example, butter) and ways in which we 
use fat mixed with other elements. (See Tables VIH, X, pages 75, 76.) 

Are there any foods which contain no fat? 

91. If every person in the United States ate no more than 
2 ounces of fats daily, instead of 3.42 ounces, how much would 
be saved by the 100 million people? Give your answer in tons 
per day. Per year. 

1 Bulletin No. 70. (See Appendix, p. 87.) 

44 



PROBLEMS ON BUTTER AND OTHER FATS 45 



FATS ARE FUEL FOR FIGHTERS 



92. If each of our 20 million families wastes i ounce o£ but- 
ter daily, find how many pounds are wasted each day. How 
many tons each year? 

Discussion. At local prices, how much money would be wasted? 
How is butter wasted in the home? Make a Hst of the ways. How 
may this waste be avoided? 

93. If it takes the cream from 2^ gallons of milk to make i 
pound of butter, how many gallons of milk will it take to pro- 
vide for a yearly waste as determined in problem 89 ? 

94. If a cow gives 570 gallons of milk a year, how many cows 
will it take to produce 262,200,000 gallons of milk? 

95. A pound of butter is divided into 64 pats. If a family 
scrapes enough butter to equal a pat into the garbage can each 
day, what part of a pound will be lost in a month? How many 
poimds in a year? 

96. If each of the 75,000 families in New Orleans wastes i of 
a pat a day, how many pounds will be wasted in a day? In 
a month? In a year? 

Discussion {problems 95 and 96). How many pounds of butter 
does your family use each week? Is this more or less than formerly? 
Why? 



DO YOU EAT MORE BUTTER THAN IS ALLOWED A SOLDIER? 



97. A soldier is given one half ounce of butter a day. How 
many men can be supplied for one day with the butter wasted 
by 6000 families in that time if the waste per family is one pat, 
or i ounce, each day? 



46 FOOD PROBLEMS 

98. a. A pound of butter costs about 48 cents. If a family 
of five uses i pound daily, what is the cost daily? Monthly? 
Yearly? How much butter is used in a year? 

b. If this family goes on army rations (| oimce daily for each 
person) how much butter will be saved during a year? How 
much money? 

99. Each one of a family of 8 wasted | oimce of fat daily by 
leaving fat meat on their plates. If this fat were saved, how 
many pounds of fat for soap could be collected in i month? 
In I year? 

Discussion. What kinds of meat furnish the most fat? Do you 
know of any uses for fats besides the use for food? List all you can 
think of. 

100. Suppose each one of the 190,000 families in Toledo were 
able to save 2 ounces of fat for soap daily. How much fat would 
they all save in a year? Answer in ounces ; in pounds ; in tons. 

Discussion. How many 8-ounce bars of soap could be made from 
the waste of fats in the city where you live? How many different 
kindsof laundry soap can you name? What kind do you use? How 
many bars weekly? Where is it made? Why should you take the 
wrappers off and put the soap in a dry place? Explain how the use 
of borax and ammonia for laundry purposes would lessen the amount 
of soap used. 



BOIL, BROIL, AND BAKE MORE; FRY LESS 



101. In July, 191 7, fats for cooking were worth $4.50 a pound 
in Germany. If each family represented in your classroom 
wastes I ounce of fat daily, how much money is wasted accord- 
ing to German prices ? 

102. By using boiled, broiled, and baked food but no fried 
food, a family saved 6 ounces of lard per week. If lard was 



PROBLEMS ON BUTTER AND OTHER FATS 47 

worth 28 cents a pornid, how many dollars did this family save 
in lard in a year by not frying meats ? 



DON'T BE FINICKY 



103. Mr. Layton will eat no food that is prepared with any- 
thing but butter. The result is that the Layton family uses 
6 oimces of butter a day, where they need only 3I oimces. A 
soldier's ration of butter is .5 oimce a day. For how many days 
could a soldier be supplied with butter from the amoimt used 
needlessly in the Layton home in one week? 

Discussion. How must fathers and children cooperate with 
mothers in promoting food saving? If every father were like Mr. 
Layton and refused to eat fats other than butter, or demanded white 
bread, meat every day, and so forth, how far would food conservation 
get? Are you finicky about eating war foods, vegetables, and other 
foods that we must eat to make it possible for us to send our Allies 
the foods they must have? 

Is a father like Mr. Layton loyal and patriotic? Are you, if you 
refuse to eat war food or vegetables? 

104. Suppose each of the 26o,cxx) people in Denver decided 
to eat one butterless slice of bread every day. If each slice of 
bread takes .25 oimce of butter, how many pounds of butter 
could be saved in i day? 

106. Lard is 100 per cent fat. Butter is 85 per cent fat. 
How much more fat is contained in 30 pounds of lard than in 
30 pounds of butter? 

Discussion. Compare Table VTII, page 75 , and see what foods 
contain the most fat. Name some other foods which contain much fat. 

106. Through using meat fats in cooking, Mrs. Adams is able 
to cut her butter ration from 2^ to i| poimds weekly. She also 



48 FOOD PROBLEMS 

saves I pound of lard each week. What does she save each week, 
at present prices for lard and butter? 

107. Hotels have learned that there is the least waste in serv- 
ing i ounce pieces of butter. How many pieces to the pound if 
cut in i ounce, i ounce, i ounce, i ounce pieces? 

108. Garbage contains about 40 pounds of fats to the ton. In 
Germany, fats for cooking now sell at $4.50 per poimd. At this 
rate, what is the value of the fats in one ton of garbage if not 
wasted? 

Discussion. Why are fats so high in Germany? How do we know 
that garbage contains so much fat? Is garbage worth anything? 
Is anything ever made from it, or from parts of it? 



USE FATS FROM SCRAPS 



109. Mrs. Brown throws away fat amounting to i ounce per 
pound of an 8-poimd boiling piece. How much fat does she 
waste? If the meat costs 22 cents a poimd, what is the money 
waste? 

110. Lard is 29 cents a pound. If the 92,000 families living 
in Los Angeles each wastes one oimce of meat fat daily and uses 
lard in its place for cooking, find the money value of the lard 
which might have been saved by using meat fat instead. 



SAVE ALL MEAT FATS 



111. Mrs. White insists on getting all " trimmings " with 
the meat she buys, instead of letting the butcher cut them 
off. With the bones she makes soup. She fries out the fats 
and once a year she makes soap. In a year she can collect 
fat enough to make 150 8-oimce bars of soap, at a cost of $1.10 



PROBLEMS ON BUTTER AND OTHER FATS 49 

for lye, borax, etc., used in soap making. The soap she makes 
lasts her all year for use in kitchen and laundry. What is her 
net saving over purchasing an equal number of 8-ounce bars of 
laundry soap at 6 cents per bar? 

112. Oleomargarine is not a complete substitute for butter, 
since it does not contain the " vitamines " or substances neces- 
sary for life, which are to be found in butter. For cooking, how- 
ever, margarine is as good as butter and far less expensive. 
Mrs. Smith pays an average price of 45 cents a poimd for 
butter, and buys during the year 78 pounds. She decides to 
use margarine in place of f the butter formerly purchased. In 
one year, how much butter will she save? How much money 
at 33 cents a poimd for margarine? 

Discussion. Bulletins Nos. 17, 19, 70, and 98 (see Appendix, page 
85) give much material on butter and the vitamines it contains. 

Why do we color butter substitutes? Compare price of substitutes 
with price of butter. How many thrift stamps could you buy with 
the money thus saved if butter substitutes were used in your home 
in place of half the butter now used? 

Would you be willing to eat one butterless piece of bread daily? 
Can you think of anything to put on your bread which you would 
prefer to butter ? 

113. Mrs. Lee makes a " butter allowance " for her family 
of I oimce daily for each member. There are four members in 
her family. 

a. How many ounces will be allowed per week? How long 
will one pound of butter last the Lee family? 

b. Before going on a butter allowance basis, the Lee family 
used 2 ounces butter daily for each member. How much butter 
per day? How many pounds a week? 



so FOOD PROBLEMS 

c. Figure the butter saving each day, each week, and each 
year in the Lee household, when using ^ ounce daily per person 
instead of 4 ounces. 

d. After the " butter ration " is used up, the Lee family must 
use margarine. They use in this way 50 poimds yearly. Is 
the Lee family cutting down its use of table fats, and if so, how 
much? 

114. Mrs. Stone has been using butter for cakes and decides 
to use oleomargarine instead of half the butter formerly used. 
If butter costs twice as much as oleomargarine what per cent 
or what part of the fat cost in cake-making does she save ? 

116. Marjorie's mother decides to use butter substitutes in 
all cooking. She now uses lard for pies, oleomargarine for cakes, 
and makes suet pudding once a week. She finds that in place 
of 2 pounds of butter each week she now uses i pound of oleo- 
margarine, ^ pound of lard, and | pound of suet. Find out how 
much she saved, at local prices. 



CHAPTER VI 

MILK PROBLEMS 

116. Each person in this country uses on the average about 
I pint of milk daily, and the United States Department of Agri- 
culture suggests that we increase the use of milk, as it is both 
economical and nourishing. 

a. What is the present use of milk for all of the loo million 
people, in quarts? In gallons? 

6. What would be the nimiber of gallons of milk used if the 
use per person should increase \ pint each? 

Discussion. Do you like milk to drink by itself, or as a part of 
soups, custards, puddings, etc. ? Make a list of all the ways in which 
milk can be used in the home. Do you think that the average use of 
milk is low ? Can you tell any reasons why it is so small ? 

How much milk is used in your home every day? How much for 
each member of your family? Is your use more or less than the 
average ? 

What things which you buy are made out of milk or cream? 

Why is milk an economical food ? What is meant by an economical 
food? Is it cheap food? Give examples of cheap foods which are 
not economical. 

In what forms is milk shipped to Europe? Why cannot whole 
milk be shipped? 

117. The food value of i quart of milk is about the same as 
that of 9 oimces of round steak or 8 eggs. Look up prices and 

51 



52 



FOOD PROBLEMS 



see which is the most economical food, and what per cent more 
expensive than milk the other two are. 



BUY MILK, NOT CREAM 



118. A quart of milk costs the same as half a pint of cream. 



Protein (muscle-building material) 

Sugar 

Minerals 

Fat 

Water . . 

Total Weight 



I Quart Milk 
Contains 



40Z. 



2 



OZ. 



^7 

ioz. 

I^ OZ. 
29|- OZ. 

? 



i Pint Cream 
Contains 



^OZ. 
OZ. 



1^ 



OZ. 

? 
? 



z Quart Skim 
Milk Contains 



OZ. 



li 



OZ. 
•|- OZ. 
^OZ. 

? 
? 



a. How does a quart of whole milk compare with ^ pint cream 
at the same price as to muscle-building material, sugar, min- 
erals, and fats? 

b. How does a quart of skim milk compare with the same 
amoimt of whole milk? 

Discussion. What per cent of milk is protein, sugar, minerals, 
etc. ? Get the per cent of these for cream and skim milk. Make 
graphs to show the composition of these foods, coloring the different 
elements. Make a graph in the shape of a straight cup and show 
what parts of the cup will be water, protein, sugar, etc. 

119. In energy value one quart of milk equals 

3 poimds fresh j&sh 
8 eggs 

3 pints oysters 
^ poimd full cream cheese 
•^ poimd round steak 
I pound chicken 



MILK PROBLEMS 53 

At local prices, how much cheaper is it to use milk than each 
of these? 

Discussion. Which of the above milk equivalents can be shipped 
to our AUies? 

If Americans follow the advice of the Department of Agriculture 
and use more milk, how could the increased demand be met? 

Give the reasons for the decrease of the supply of milk in Europe. 
What substitutes must we send to take the place of that milk? 



USE ALL THE MILK 



120. If each of our 20 million homes should waste i cup of 
milk daily, how many quarts would be wasted every day ? Every 
year? (4 cups = i quart.) 



THE GOVERNMENT URGES THAT WE USE MORE MH-K 

BECAUSE 

MILK IS A MOST NOURISHING FOOD 

IT IS CHEAP FOR THE NUTRIMENT IT GIVES 



121. A COW gives on the average 2280 quarts of milk yearly. 
How many cows would it take to supply a yearly waste of 57 
million gallons? 

122. If one person can care for 8 cows, how many people will 
it take to care for the number of cows foimd by solving problem 
113? 

123. A survey made by the Connecticut Agricultural College 
found that in 1916-1917 it cost 5.53 cents per quart to produce 
milk. 

a. What would be the cost to produce a daily waste of 600 
thousand quarts? 



54 POOD PROBLEMS 

b. At the same rate, what would be the value of the milk 
wasted in a year? 



HOW WE CAN USE SOUR MILK 



124. Mrs. White wastes a cup of sour milk each week by 
throwing it away. Milk costs 12 cents a quart in the city where 
she lives. 

a. How much money is wasted yearly in the White home by 
throwing away milk? 

b. Compute the waste if this happened in each home in your 
city, your state, or the nation. 

c. What would be the total value of the milk wasted in the 
United States at 10 cents a quart? At 8 cents a quart? At 6 
cents a quart? 

Discussion. Ask your mother to tell you five ways of using sour 
milk. If she did not have sour milk when preparing these foods, 
what would she be obliged to use instead? Which is cheaper? 

Do you like buttermilk? It has a high food value and is well 
recommended. What is the cost of a quart of it at your local dairy? 
For what purposes does your mother use buttermilk? Give as many 
other uses as you can. 

What is the difference between evaporated milk and condensed 
milk? Could you find out the process of preparing either? Do you 
know in which form it is being shipped to our soldiers abroad and 
our Allies? You might be interested to find out how many poimds 
of milk are used to produce a pornid of condensed milk ready for 
shipment. What is the advantage commercially? What use do 
the soldiers make of the tin cans? 

126. The maid in clearing the table pours out milk left in 
glasses which amounts to about | cup daily. At 12 cents a 
quart, how much money is wasted during one month by serving 
more milk than is needed ? (2 cups make i pint.) 



CHAPTER VII 

SUGAR PROBLEMS 

126. Each person in the United States consumes on the aver- 
age 90 pounds of sugar each year.^ He needs only ^ pound a 
week. 

a. How much is consumed each year that is not needed? 
How much could be saved if the average use of sugar by each of 
the 100 million persons in this coimtry were reduced to what is 
needed? 

b. Our Allies need 2700 million tons of sugar. What per cent 
of this could be secured through the above saving? 

Discussion. Why must soldiers have sugar? 

What has caused a shortage of sugar in Europe since the war began? 

Is there a sugar shortage in this country? What is the cause? 

From what is sugar made? What countries lead in the produc- 
tion of sugar? How much is produced in the United States? What 
part of the total sugar production in the world? 

Who can make the longest list of food ready for the table which 
contains sugar ? Take this list and find in how many cases substitutes 
for the sugar could be used, or the amornit of sugar used reduced. 

No doubt your mother is trying to save sugar by using substitutes 
and in some cases, reducing the amount of sugar used. At first you 
may not like the food so prepared. How is this an opportunity for 
you to do your bit? 

^ Bulletin No. 70. (See Appendix, page 8y.) 

55 



56 



FOOD PROBLEMS 



WASTE NOT — WANT NOT 



127. Suppose each of the 20 million homes in the United 
States wastes i oimce of sugar per month. How many pounds 
are wasted per year? At 9 cents a pound, what is the money 
value of this waste? 

Discussion. Have you weighed an ounce of sugar to see how 
much it is? Suppose that you save a teaspoonful of sugar at each 
meal for a month, how many cupfuls have you saved? How many 
pounds? (See Table II, page 73.) If your family did the same how 
many pounds would be saved? 

Do you ever find when you have finished drinking your cocoa that 
there is sugar left in the bottom of the cup? About how much sugar 
have you wasted? 

Perhaps you would be interested in Stephen's experiments. He 
found he had been putting too much sugar into his cocoa. He de- 
cided to stop that waste. Each day he used a smaller portion of sugar. 
By doing this he soon learned to enjoy his cocoa with only half the 
former amount of sugar in it. Should you like to try this plan? 



SACRIFICE UNNECESSARY SWEETS 



128. The average use of sugar per person in the United States 
is about 90 pounds yearly. How many oimces per person per 
day? How many tablespoonfuls per day? 



WE CANNOT PRESERVE FREEDOM UNLESS 
WE CONSERVE FOOD 



129. Soldiers are allowed 3.2 ounces of sugar daily.* If each 
person on the average uses 4 ounces daily, how much more does 
he use than a soldier gets? What per cent more? 

* Correspondence, Quartermaster General, Washington, D.C. 



SUGAR PROBLEMS 57 

130. If every person in the United States ate on the average 
3.2 ounces of sugar per day, instead of 4 ounces, how many 
pounds of sugar would be saved daily by the 100 million persons 
in this country? How many tons? 



FOOD IS AMMUNITION 
DONT WASTE IT 



131. Mrs. Green had been told to use equal amoimts of 
sugar and fruit in making jelly. She makes grape jelly, using 
a pint of sugar to a pint of juice. The jelly is too syrupy to stand 
alone, and is sweeter than necessary. Later she finds that 
f of a pint of sugar to a pint of juice should have been used. 

a. How much sugar did she need for 12 pints of juice? 

b. How many pints did she use unnecessarily? How many 
poimds? (i pint = f pound.) 

c. How much money if sugar is 9 cents per pound? 



CLEAR CONSCIENCE 
CLEAN PLATE 



132. Mrs. Baldwin buys jam at 30 cents a jar. John and 
Alice are apt to take more jam that they need and leave it 
on their plates, so that about 15 per cent of the jam is wasted. 
If in a year Mrs. Baldwin uses up 20 jars, how much is wasted ? 
What did it cost? 

133. The soldiers at Fort Sheridan are allowed 3.2 ounces 
of sugar daily. Walter each day eats four ounces of sugar in 
his cereal, candy, cocoa, cakes, etc. If Walter uses only a sol- 
dier's ration daily, how much will he save in a year, if sugar 
is 9 cents a pound? 



S8 FOOD PROBLEMS 



WHEN THE WELL'S DRY WE KNOW THE WORTH OF WATER 

Poor Richard*s Almanac 



134. In England, no cake must contain more than 15 per cent 

sugar. Find out what per cent of sugar the following recipe 

calls for. 

i cup fat 2 cups = I lb. 

I cup milk (allow 2 oimces) 

2^ cups sugar 3 cups sugar = i lb. 

3 cups flour 4 cups flour = i lb. 

3 eggs 9 eggs = i lb. 
% ounce of other materials 

135. A cafeteria decides to save sugar by not placing sugar 
bowls on tables but requiring guests to go to a sugar counter. 
The result is that f the amount formerly used on tables is 
saved. If this use of sugar was 16 poimds daily, how much is 
now saved each day? How much each year of 360 daysV 

Discussion. Why does this method save sugar? Is it saving of 
sugar to eat in restaurants? Why, or why not? 

136. There are about 80 lumps in a pound of liunp sugar, 
which sells at 14 cents a poimd. 

a. How long will a poimd last in the Brown family if Mr. and 
Mrs. Brown each drink 3 cups of coffee daily, using 3 lumps to 
a cup? 

b. How long would a pound last if Mr. and Mrs. Brown each 
used I liunp per cup? 

c. Calculate the amount of sugar consiuned yearly in the 
Brown home if Mr. and Mrs. Brown each use 3 liunps in 3 
cups of coffee daily. If they each use i liunp. How much 
sugar would be saved in a year if each use i liunp per cup of 
coffee? 



SUGAR PROBLEMS 59 

Discussion. Perhaps you know that in buying lump sugar you 
can get large or small lumps, about 40 lumps of the former, 80 of the 
latter in a pound. With which kind can you practice greater economy ? 
Why? 

137. K every one of the 750,000 persons in Boston saved i 
Imnp of sugar each day, how many tons of sugar could be saved 
in a year? How many tons if each of the 100 million persons 
in the United States saved i liunp daily? (There are 80 liunps 
to the pound.) 

138. a, Margaret wastes two liunps of sugar daily by eating 
more than she needs. If a liunp weighs \ ounce, how much does 
she waste in a year? 

6. A soldier's ration is 2>\ ounces of sugar a day. For how 
long would what Margaret wastes in i year supply i soldier? 

139. a. Alice has a cup of cocoa for breakfast and supper, 
and uses 3 Imnps of sugar in each cup. If in addition she eats 
sugar amounting to 2.4 ounces daily, how much sugar does she 
use per day? Per week? (5 Imnps = i oimce.) 

b. If she needs iiftr of a poimd weekly, how much more does 
she use than she needs? 

140. Mary has been using 2 level tablespoonfuls, or i ounce 
of sugar on her oatmeal every morning. Her mother decides 
to cook the oatmeal with dates, figs, or primes, so as to need no 
sugar. How many pounds of sugar will Mary save in a month ? 
In a year? 

141. Mary spends her pennies on candy which she doesn't 
need. She buys caramels, chocolates, and hard candy from the 
pushcart man, and from all the candy she gets 4 oimces of sugar 
each week. 

a. If the sugar she gets from candy is not needed, how many 
more pounds of sugar than she needs is she getting each year ? 



6o FOOD PROBLEMS 

6. If all the children in your classroom used as much, what 
would be the waste of sugar each year? 

c. If all the children in your school wasted as much, what 
would be the waste? 

d. What would be wasted if 800,000 school children in 
New York used as much sugar needlessly? How many tons? 

e. How many tons if all the 23 million school children in the 
United States wasted like amounts? 

Discussion. For a well-balanced diet a proportion of sugar is 
necessary. Candy is a pleasant way to get that sugar. Can any 
one find out what physicians have decided is a reasonable amount 
for children? Are you eating more or less than that amount? 

Which kinds of candy are the most healthful? Why ought younger 
children to be directed in the selection of candy? Why have we 
been asked to eat less candy during this war? 



EAT LESS CANDY 



142. Alice and Mabel usually use 2 poimds of sugar in making 
Christmas candies. They plan this year to make com syrup taffy 
and Parisian sweets, and so will use only J poimd of sugar. How 
many poimds will they save? If half of the 450,000 school 
children in Wisconsin should have a " sugarless Christmas " and 
save as much, how much sugar would be saved for the Allies? 



SUGARLESS CANDY IS WAR CANDY 



143. There is f of an oimce of sugar in one glass of lemonade 
or soda water. Suppose each child in this school should drink 
an average of one glass of lemonade or soda water a day during 
the summer. How many poimds of sugar would they all together 
use in sweet drinks during the months of June, July, and August? 



SUGAR PROBLEMS 6i 

Discussion. Can you think of any good substitutes for lemonade 
and soda water? Which are the least expensive and most healthful? 

144. Every time she makes fudge, Alice uses 2 cups or i poimd 
of sugar. She makes fudge every other week. / 

a. How much sugar does she use each year in this way? 

h. She decides to stop making fudge, and make candies needing 
only \ cup of sugar. How much sugar will she save in a year? 

146. Clara makes sugarless candy, using dates, nuts, cocoanut, 
syrups, popcorn, and honey, but no sugar. She finds that she 
can thus save 2 pounds of sugar each week. If all the children 
in your school save as much, how much sugar will be saved? 



EAT WAR CANDY 



146. Find out how much candy you eat during one week 
and allow f of its weight to be sugar. If every one of the 23 
million school children in the United States eats as much, how 
much sugar is used by them each week for candy alone ? If 
they save half of this, how many poimds will be saved? How 
many tons? 

Discussion. Following are a few tested recipes for sugarless candy. 
Won^t you try at least one of these ? Will you furnish another recipe 
for sugarless candy? Will you put all of these together and make 
a sugarless candy recipe book? Will you use your influence to get 
people to substitute sugarless candy for the kind they have been 
eating? 

The last five of these recipes are published by the United States 
Food Administration. 

Peanut Brittle, 

One cup sorghum or corn syrup, cook until it forms hard ball in 
water and add one half cup peanuts (or puffed rice or puffed wheat). 



62. FOOD PROBLEMS 

Pop Corn Balls. 

One half cup corn syrup, one tablespoon oleo or butter, one eighth 
tablespoon salt. Cook com syrup until it forms a firm ball; add 
oleo and salt ; then pour over two cups of popcorn (or puffed rice or 
puffed wheat). 

Chocolate Dainties. 

Put through the meat chopper one half cup each of dates, figs, 
and nut meats. Add one tablespoon orange juice, a httle grated 
orange peel, and one square of melted imsweetened chocolate. Mold 
into balls and roll in chopped nuts or granulated sugar. This mixture 
may be packed in an oiled tin, put under a weight until firm, then cut 
in any shape desired. 

Old Fashioned Molasses Candy. 

2 cupfuls (i pint) molasses 

1 tablespoonf ul vinegar 

2 tablespoonf uls (i oimce) butter substitute 
i level teaspoonful baking powder 

I teaspoonful vanilla or ginger extract 

Put molasses, vinegar, and butter into a sauce-pan. Bring to a 
boiling point, and boil, stirring all the time until the mixture is brittle 
when dropped into cold water. Stir in baking powder and extract 
and pour into a buttered tin. When nearly cold pull imtil glossy. 
Cut into small pieces and lay on a buttered plate or wrap in waxed 
paper. Sufficient for one poimd of candy. 



Pop Corn Candy. 



I cup syrup 

1 tablespoonf ul vinegar 

2 or 3 quarts of popped corn 



Boil together the syrup and vinegar until syrup hardens when 
dropped in cold water. Pour over freshly popped com and mold 
into balls or fancy shapes. Little popcorn men will please the 
children. Mark the features and outlines with melted chocolate. 
Use honey, maple syrup, molasses or white cane or corn syrup. 



CHAPTER VIII 
MISCELLANEOUS PROBLEMS 

147. There are 20 million families in the United States. Cal- 
culate the money loss per week if each family wastes 

a, an oimce of butter weekly (butter 54 cents a pound.) 
J. Half a cup of milk weekly (milk 12 cents a quart of 4 cups.) 

c, i| slices of bread weekly (bread 10 cents a loaf of 12 slices.) 

d, I ounce of meat each day (average 29 cents a pound.) 

148. a. The average American family eats in the following pro- 
portion : pjai Cent 

Meat 16 

Fish 2 

Eggs 2 

Milk, butter, etc 18 

Fruits and vegetables 25 

Cereals 31 

Sugar, etc 6 

100 

Allowing I square to 2 per cent, draw on construction paper 
bars to represent the percentage of foods of various sorts which 
are eaten : 

h. The soldier eats in the following proportion : 

Per Cent 

Meat 28 

Fish 2 

Eggs o 

Milk, butter, etc 2 

Fruits and vegetables 34 

Cereals 26 

Sugar, etc 8 

100 

63 



64 FOOD PROBLEMS 

Draw bars representing these proportions, and notice the dif- 
ference between these bars and those in (a), 

149. Charlotte wishes to help her mother economize heat in 
cooking and so she makes a fireless cooker. She needs a large 
box with a heavy top, and this she buys from the grocer for 
lo cents. She buys hinges for the cover for lo cents. For 
filling she uses old newspapers which she has saved. Enough 
asbestos to line the "nest" for the kettle costs her 22 cents. 
She also needs strong cardboard to line the container, which she 
gets from a box in which goods were delivered to her home. 
She needs material for a denim cushion to go over the kettle, 
and for this she buys 2 yards of denim at 18 cents a yard. Her 
mother already has a large kettle for the fireless cooker, and 
Charlotte buys some smaller ones for 60 cents. How much does 
the fireless cooker cost in all ? 

Discussion. Tell what you know of the fireless cooker — its 
advantages and disadvantages, if any. 

See Bulletin 77, No. 4 (page 88) for full directions for making a 
fireless cooker. 

160. Charlotte's mother finds that through the use of the 
fireless cooker she reduces her gas bills as follows : 



1 91 6 Gas Bills 




1917 Gas Bills 


(without fireless cooker) 




(witii fijceless codcer) 


$2.43 


August 


$1.65 


2.12 


September 


2.04 


2.97 


October 


2.12 


2.95 


November 


1.98 


3.08 


December 


2.24 



How much does she save on gas in the five months listed? 
Draw curves on construction paper to show how much she 
spends each month, showing the curve for 1916 just above the 
one for 191 7 (see page xvii). 



MISCELLANEOUS PROBLEMS 65 



MAKE SAVING FASHIONABLE 



161. Mrs. Fuller made a fireless cooker according to instruc- 
tions of the United States Department of Agriculture. It cost 
her 75 cents. She foimd that her bills for gas used in cooking 
averaged 40 cents less each month than before. What was the 
net saving in a year? 



COOPERATION IS ONE OF THE MARKS OF CIVILIZATION 



162. In a town there are 6 groceries. Each has maintained 
a delivery wagon, horse, and boy, at an average cost of $50 per 
month apiece. The merchants decide to maintain a joint deliv- 
ery service for all the stores. They find they wiU need 2 horses, 
2 wagons, and 2 boys. The total cost will be $90 per month, 
How much will they save each month on deliveries? 

Discussion. What do you think of the Cash and Cany System? 
Discuss fully : a. What would be the effect of closing all stores three 
days a week? b. Would it benefit housewives in leading to wiser 
purchases? c. Would it reduce the cost of deliveries? Why? 



LET us JOIN THE CASH-CARRY CLUB 



163. Mary makes a cake costing 35 cents for materials, and 
leaves 4^ of the batter in the mixing bowl instead of scraping 
the dish clean. If she does this once a week, how much money 
value does she waste in a year? 

Discussion. What is your best and cheapest cake recipe? Would 
you use frosting? If so, what kind of frosting would you use? Cal- 
culate the cost for material of a cake you have made or eaten recently. 



66 



FOOD PROBLEMS 



164. Mrs. Brown decides to preserve eggs to use during the 
winter months when eggs are high. She buys 50 dozen at 35 
cents and pays 45 cents for preserving materials. What is her 
net saving if the average cost of storage eggs that winter is 50 
cents? 

Discussion. What is the best way to preserve eggs? How many 
eggs a week does your family use? What do they cost? Should 
we be saving in our use of eggs? Are they included in a soldier's 
rations? Why? 



PRACTICE THE GOSPEL OF THE CLEAN PLATE 



166. Twice a week Mrs. Gray has a " poor man's dinner " 
in which she uses up all the leftovers. One week she uses the 
following to make a dish of scalloped com. 



Article 



Butter . . 
Stale bread . 
Dried cheese 



Puce 



48 cents a poiind 
10 cents a loaf 
38 cents a poiind 



Quantity Saved 



2 ounces 
iloaf 
J pound 



Amount Saved 



Find out how much money was saved by using these materials. 

Discussion. Bring in " left over " recipes (with cost of articles 
used) that you have tried and would recommend. On what days 
of the week would it seem most reasonable to expect a " leftover " 
dinner? 

166. To see what a little saving means, Mrs. Gray figures 
what the saving woidd be if every one of the i| million homes 
in Illinois saved 15 cents a week. What does she find would 
be saved each week? Each year? 



MISCELLANEOUS PROBLEMS 67 

Discussion. What part of youj allowance or of the money you 
earn ought you to save? How much can you save in a year? Give 
examples of wise as well as patriotic investments of savings. Have 
you saved anything during the past week ? How many Thrift Stamps 
have you bought? 



NO SAVING IS LITTLE 



167. Mrs. Brown used a 15 cent can of tomato soup for two 
people. One half of the soup was unused and placed on the 
pantry shelf and covered in such a way as to be forgotten for 
three days. At the end of this time the soup had grown moldy 
and had to be thrown away. What was the per cent waste? 
What was the money waste? 

168. At Mary's home the cheese was allowed to grow dry 
and hard and was thrown away as useless. About } poimd a 
week was thus wasted. The mother of Mary's playmate used 
up all the dry cheese by grating it and using it in scalloped dishes. 
How many pounds of cheese did the mother of Mary's play- 
mate save in a year by not being wasteful? How much money 
was gained by careful methods? (Price of cheese, 38 cents a 
poimd.) 



USE LOCAL PRODUCE 



169. In his war garden, Peter raised tomatoes. His mother 
gave him 2 cents each for all she used during the summer and 
he canned the rest for winter use. His expenses were 



Plants $ .20 

Fertilizer, insect powder, etc 10 

Cans i.oo 

Total $ 



68 FOOD PROBLEMS 

Peter sold 75 tomatoes to his mother and camied 20 quart 
cans, which he sold at 18 cents each. What was his net profit? 

Discussion. Do you like to watch things grow? Did you ever 
have a garden? How would a well-kept garden help to reduce the 
family grocery bill? How would it help in the big campaign of food 
conservation? How can the surplus vegetables, fruits, etc. be pre- 
served for later use? Describe the " Cold Pack " method of canning 
(see Appendix, p. 86). Tell how vegetables and other food stuffs 
may be dried? Describe the various " dehydrators " that are used 
for this purpose. 

160. a. Mr. Brown works hard all summer on a home garden 
and raises 10 bushels of potatoes (60 poimds in a bushel) and 
of carrots, besides other garden truck. He stores the potatoes 
and carrots in the basement. But during the winter the heat of 
the furnace dries and wilts the food supply so that f of the 
total is lost. How many poimds of each commodity was lost? 

b. If, in putting the vegetables in the basement, Mr. Brown 
had packed them in cool dry sand, ^ of the material would have 
been lost. How much material could have been saved by 
proper packing and storage? 



AMONG OUR WORST ENEMIES ARE RATS, MICE, INSECTS, 

MOLD, ROT 
HOW SHALL WE OVERCOME THEM? 



161. Mrs. Jones bought a 15-poimd sack of cornmeal and 
used 7 pounds. Because she did not protect what was left 
of it, insects got into it and she was obliged to throw all the rest 
away. If she paid 95 cents for the sack, how much money did 
she waste? 

162. Mrs. Gray bought 3 poimds of cheese at 38 cents a 
pound. Because she left it uncovered in a warm unventilated 



MISCELLANEOUS PROBLEMS 



69 



cupboard, f of it was lost by molding. How much money waste 
was there? 

163. Mrs. Brown bought 9 bushels of potatoes in the fall for 
winter use, pa)dng $2.25 per bushel. One potato out of every 
ten rotted and an additional 5 per cent were spoiled by rats. 
What money loss is there? 

164. If rats, mice, ants, and insects cause a loss amounting 
to I cent daily for every one of the 20 million families in the 
United States, what is the total loss weekly? Yearly? 

Discussion (problems 161, 162, 163, 164). Study ways and means 
of overcoming the enemies mentioned, each one separately. Em- 
phasize the element of cleanliness. 



DO WE WASTE BY CARELESS COOKING? 



166. The cook in the Tyler household uses f cup of cereal 
which costs 22 cents a quart package for breakfast food daily. 
On an average of once a week she lets the cereal burn so that 
half of it has to be thrown out. How much money waste in a 
year? (There are four cups to the quart.) 

Discussion. Name as many cereals as you can. Which do you 
like best? Can you prepare it? What would be the advantage of 
a double boiler ? H!ave you tried a fireless cooker for preparing cereals 
like oatmeal which requires long cooking? 



FOOD IS WASTED IF INEDIBLE BECAUSE 

IT IS BURNED 

IT IS POORLY FLAVORED 

IT is SOGGY IT IS TOUGH 



166. In the Smith home, the water used for boiling meats 
and vegetables is thrown away, instead of being used for soup. 



70 FOOD PROBLEMS 

gravies, etc. Mrs. Smith buys during the year 7 cans of 
consomme at 12 cents each, 6 cans of soup stock at 2 for a 
quarter, and a dozen cans of vegetable soups at $1.25 a dozen. 
She would not need any of this if she used the water she throws 
away. How much does she waste in a year by throwing away 
materials which she might use? 

Discussion. What does the water used for boiling meats 'and 
vegetables contain that is valuable in the preparation of soup? Of 
what particular value is the water that potatoes have been boiled in? 



LET US EAT WHAT WE CAN, AND CAN THE REST 



167. Mrs. Jones's war garden produced in a season 150 to- 
matoes worth about 2 cents each. Mrs. Jones used | of them, 
and gave away i^j- of them. The remainder, instead of being 
canned, were left to rot on the vines. How much money waste 
was there? 

Discussion. The canning of vegetables in the home is a com- 
paratively new industry. Discuss the possibility of raising enough 
vegetables in a war garden to provide for winter use. 

168. Walter raised a pig that he bought from his father for 
$5.50. The pig's feed cost Walter $15.25. When the pig 
weighed 250 pounds, Walter sold it at 18 cents a pound. How 
many dollars did Walter clear? 



SERVE NO MORE THAN IS NEEDED 



169. When company comes, the Miller family serves potatoes 
and three other vegetables in addition to meat, extra sweets, and 
relishes. Ten per cent of the food prepared is wasted by being 



MISCELLANEOUS PROBLEMS 71 

left on plates, and J of what is eaten is wasted because it is not 
needed for nutriment. If a dinner served by Mr. and Mrs. 
Miller for themselves and 6 guests costs $5.60, calculate the 
cost per person, the waste per person, and the total waste. 



WASTEFUL COOKS ARE POOR PATRIOTS 



170. A wasteful cook makes a cake containing 4 eggs (54 
cents a dozen) ; i cup butter (48 cents per pound of 2 cups) ; 
I cup milk (12 cents a quart) ; 2^ cups sugar (10 cents per 
pound of 2 cups) ; and 4 cents' worth of other materials. The 
cake is burned and she throws it all out. How much money is 
she wasting? 

Discussion. Can you submit a war cake recipe and figure out 
approximately how much it would cost? Compare it with the cost 
of the cake recipe in problem 170. 



MEAT IS SWEETEST NEAREST THE BONE 
THE BEST OF THE POTATO IS NEAREST THE SKIN 



171. Li paring potatoes, Mrs. Wood cuts thick peelings, so 
that 20 per cent of the edible portion is wasted. Potatoes 
are 40 cents a peck, and the Wood family eats a peck every 
6 days. How much does Mrs. Wood waste in a year through 
her method of paring potatoes ? Suppose this happens in each 
of the families in your state. What is the loss per year? 



BOIL POTATOES WITH THEIR JACKETS ON 



172. Careless paring of potatoes wastes on an average 20 
per cent of the edible portion. If your cook, in preparing the 



72 FOOD PROBLEMS 

potatoes for boiling, wastes as much good material as the above 
average, what will be the loss in pounds on a bushel of potatoes 
used? (There are 60 lbs. of potatoes to the bushel.) How 
much value in money will be saved if these potatoes are boiled 
in their jackets? (Find the price of potatoes from your grocer.) 

Discussion (problems 171, 172), Why is it a good thing to eat the 
skins of baked potatoes, and to cook potatoes with the skins on for 
creaming, frying, escalloping, etc. ? 



PREPARE FOOD SO AS TO SAVE ALL EDIBLE PORTIONS 



173. Mrs. Smith buys i| pecks of spinach a week at 18 cents 
a peck, instead of using the greens from beets and other veg- 
etables which she buys. What would she save during the 12 
summer weeks if she bought no spinach but used the vegetable 
greens which she now throws away? 



APPENDIX 

USEFUL INFORMATION RELATING TO 
FOOD CONSERVATION 

I. PERCENTAGE OF WHEAT USED IN MAKING FLOURS 

White flour 72 per cent 

Whole wheat flour 85 per cent 

Graham flour 95 per cent 

Home ground flour 100 per cent 

II. TABLE OF EQUIVALENTS 

3 teaspoons = i tablespoon 
16 level tablespoons = i cup 

2 cups = I pmt 

4 cups * I quart 
4 cups flour = I poimd 
2 cups butter = i poimd 
2 cups sugar = i pound 

60 pounds potatoes = i bushel 
196 pounds flour = i barrel 
45 bushels wheat make i barrel of white flour 
I quart milk = about 2 pounds 

in. USE OF SOME FOODS PER PERSON PER YEAR IN THE 

UNITED STATES' 

Wheat (Seed) 7 bushel 

Wheat (Food) 5.3 bushels 

Total 6.0 bushels 

1 Bulletin No. 2. (See Appendix, page 85.) 

» Correspondence U. S. Bureau of Agriculture, also bulletins Nos. 31, 70, 74, 98. 

73 



74 FOOD PROBLEMS 

Meat (Beef) 82.7 pounds 

Meat (Mutton) 7.0 pounds 

Meat (Pork) 103.5 pounds 

Meat (Other) 0.3 pound 

Total 193-5 pounds 

Sugar 90.0 pounds 

Potatoes 2.6 bushels 

Fats 77.0 pounds 

Fish 21.2 pounds (1908) 

Milk .5 pint 

IV. POPULATIONS (IN ROUND NUMBERS) 

United States — Total 100,000,000 

Number of families in United States 20,000,000 

Number of school children in the United States . . 23,000,000 

Your state — Total 

Nmnber of families in your state ^ 

Your city or coimty — Total 

Nmnber of families in your city or county . . . * 



V. USE COTTAGE CHEESE > 

For supplying protein, one poimd of On the basis of energy siupplied, one 
cottage cheese equals : pound of cottage cheese equals : 



1.27 pounds sirloin steak 


8.33 ounces sirloin steak 


1.09 pounds round steak 


11.25 ounces roimd steak 


1.37 pounds chuck rib beef 


11.25 oimces chuck rib beef 


1.52 poimds fowl 


10.75 oimces fowl 


1.46 poimds fresh ham 


5.25 ounces fresh ham 


1.44 pounds smoked ham 


5.0 ounces smoked ham 


1.58 pounds loin pork chop 


6.0 ounces loin pork chop 


1. 3 1 poimds hind leg of lamb 


7.33 ounces hind leg of lamb 


1.37 pounds breast of veal 


12.75 ounces breast of veal 



^To find the number of families, divide the total population by five. The 
average family consists of 5 persons. 
2 Bulletin No. 29. (See Appendix, page 86.) 



APPENDIX 



75 



VI. LIST OF WHEAT SUBSTITUTES 

Flours Vegetables and Frxhts 
Rye Oatmeal Potatoes Com 

Barley Potatoes Bananas Peas 

Commeal Rice Beets Beans 

VU. LIST OF MEAT SUBSTITUTES 



Fish 


Beans 


Fowls 


Local game (rabbits, etc.) 


Cheese 


Nuts 


Eggs 


Peas (dried) 


Milk 









VIIL LIST OF FOODS RICH IN FATS^ 

ICO Per Cent Fat 8o to ioo Per Cent Fat 

Commercial shortening or cooking Lard, 92 to 100 per cent 

Fat salt pork, 86 per cent 



fats 
Cottonseed oil 
Peanut oil 
Olive oil 
Sesame oil 
Com oil 

40 TO 70 Per Cent Fat 

Nuts (meats), 70 to 54 per cent 
Bacon, 64 to 59 per cent 
Coconut, 57 per cent 
Chocolate, 48 per cent 
Whipping cream, 40 per cent 



Butter, 85 per cent 
Oleomargarine, 83 per cent 
Suet, 81 per cent 



Drippings 
Goose oil 
Chicken fat 



Per cent depends on 
methods of clarify- 
ing 



20 TO 40 Per Cent Fat 

American cheese, 36 per cent 
Cream cheese, 33 per cent 
Egg yolk, 33 per cent 
Cocoa, 28 per cent 
Olives, 20 per cent 



IZ. SUMMARY OF USES OF EASILY OBTAINABLE FATS> 

Uses 

Uncooked salad dressings 
Deep-fat frying, salad dressings, 

shortening except cakes 
Deep-fat frying 

(See Appendix, page 87.) 
(See Appendix, page 85.) 



Kinds of 


Fat 


Flavor 


Olive oil 
Cottonseed oil 


Strong 
SUght 


Com oil 




Fairly strong 

* Bulletin No. 70. 
» Bulletin No. 17. 



76 



FOOD PROBLEMS 



Kinds of Fat 


Flavok 


Chicken, duck, or 




goose fat 


Mild 


Butter 


Mild 


Lard 


MQd 


Lard substitute 


Slight 


Suet 


Strong 


Bacon fat 


Very strong 


Oleomargarine 


Mild 



Uses 

Shortening, especially cakes and pie 

crust 
Shortening, except of plain pastry 
Shortening, especially of plain pastry 
Saut6ing, deep-fat frying, shortening 
Saut6ing 
Saut^ing 
Same as butter 



X. GROUPS OF FOODS FOR A BALANCED DIET^ 



SEE THAT FOOD FROM EACH GROUP IS EATEN EVERY DAY 



Group i. Fruits and Vegetables 

[Foods depended on for mineral matters, vegetable adds, 
and body-regulating substances.] 



Apples, pears, etc. 

Berries 

Oranges, lemons, etc. 

Bananas 

Melons, etc. 



Salads (lettuce, celery, etc.) 
Green peas, beans, etc. 
Tomatoes, squash, etc. 
Potherbs or "greens" 
Potatoes and root vegetables 



Group 2. Meat and Meat Substitutes 

[Foods depended on for protein.] 
Milk, skim milk, cheese, etc. Fish 



Dried peas, beans, cowpeas, etc. 

Nuts 



Poultry 

Eggs 

Meat 

Group 3. Foods Rich in Starch 

Cereal grains, meals, flours, etc. Crackers 

Cereal breakfast foods Cakes, cookies, starchy puddings, 

Bread etc. 

Potatoes and other starchy vege- 
tables 

1 Based on Bulletin 77, No. 5. (See Appendiz, page 88.) 



APPENDIX 



77 



Group 4. Sugar 



Sugar 
Molasses 
Syrups 
Honey 



Candies 

Sweet cakes and desserts 
Fruits preserved in sugar, jellies, and 
dried fruits 



Group 5. Foods Very Rich in Fat 



Butter and cream Salt pork and bacon 

Lard, suet and other cooking fats Table and salad oils 



XI. PROPORTIONS OF VARIOUS FOODS EATEN B7 THE AVERAGE 
AMERICAN FAMILY AND THE SOLDIER ^ 



The American Family 

Meat 16 

Fish 2 

Eggs 2 

Milk, butter, etc 18 

Cereals 31 

Fruits and vegetables ... 25 

Sugar, etc 6 

Total 100 



The Soldier 

Meat 

Fish 

Eggs 

Milk, butter, etc. . . . 

Cereals 

Fruits and vegetables . . 
Sugar, etc 



28 
2 
o 
2 

26 

34 
8 



Total 100 



Meat, fresh 



XII. A SOLDIER'S DAILY RATION > 

Permitted Substitutes 

. 20.0 oimces Salt, canned or dried meat, or fish, 

or turkey on Christmas and 
Thanksgiving 
18.0 ounces Bread, commeal, or hominy 



Flour .... 

Baking powder . . 0.08 oimce 

Beans 2.4 ounces Rice or hominy 

Potatoes or vege- 
tables .... 20.0 oimces 

^ Bulletin No. 98. (See Appendix, page 88.) 

2 Data secured by correspondence with the Quartermaster General of the U. S. 
Army, Washington, D. C. 



78 



FOOD PROBLEMS 



Prunes 1.28 ounces 

Coffee . . • . . 1. 12 ounces 

Sugar 3.2 ounces 

Milk, evaporated, 

unsweetened . . 0.5 ounce 

Vinegar 0.16 gill 

Salt 0.64 ounce 

Pepper, black . . . 0.04 ounce 

Spice 0.014 oimce 

Lard 0.64 ounce 

Butter 0.5 ounce 

Syrup 0.32 gill 

Flavoring extract . 0.014 oimce 



Permitted Substitutes 
Dried apples, peaches, or jam 
Tea 



Pickles 



Lard substitute 
Oleomargarine 



XIII. FOODS TO EAT AND FOODS TO SAVE 



Eat hut Don't Waste 

Vegetables Cheese Honey 

Syrups Milk Nuts 

Fish Cereals (except wheat) 



Save 
Butter Pork 
Wheat Mutton 
Beef Sugar 



XIV. HOW YOU CAN SAVE FOOD 

Bread 

Have at least one wheatless meal a day. 

Use com, oats, barley, or mixed cereal rolls, muffins, and breads in place 
of white bread. 
Eat less cake and pastry. 
Order bread from the baker a day in advance. 
Cut the loaf on the table and only as required. 
Use stale bread for toast and cooking. 



Meat 

Do not use either beef, mutton, or pork more than once daily. 

Serve smaUer portions. 

Use all leftover meat — cold or in made dishes. 

Use more poultry, rabbits, and especially fish and sea food. 



APPENDIX 79 

Use soups more freely. 

Use beans — they have nearly the same food value as meat. 

Use no young meat (lamb, veal, etc.). 

Use milk, eggs, and cheese instead of meat. 

Milk 

Use all of the milk ; waste no part of it. 

The children must have whole milk. Use less cream. 

Use all skim milk and sour milk. 

Use buttermilk and cheese freely. 

Fats 

Use butter on the table as usual, especially for children. 
Use as little as possible in cooking. 
Reduce the use of fried foods. 
Use vegetable oils, such as cottonseed and olive oil. 
Save daily one third of animal fat. 
Make soap at home. 

Have the butcher give you the scraps and trimmings of meat which you 
buy, to use for fat. 

Vegetables and Fruits 

Double your use of vegetables. 

Use potatoes abundantly. 

Store potatoes and roots properly. 

Use fruits generously. 

Cook vegetables, especially potatoes, with the skins on. 

General Suggestions 

Buy less. Cook no more than necessary. Serve smaller portions. 

Use local and seasonable supplies ; lessen the need of transportation. 

Preach and practice the gospel of the clean plate. 

Eat plenty, but wisely and without waste. 

Do not eat between meals. 

Watch out for the wastes in the commimity. 

Eat everything which you take on your plate. 

Learn to like everything. 



8o FOOD PROBLEMS 

Do not overeat. 

Use leftovers to make palatable dishes. 

When using canned goods, be sure that all food is removed from the can. 

Save all the bottles for fruit juices, catsup, etc. 

Use perishable foodstuffs before any part has an opportunity to spoil. 

Can, dry, or pickle all surplus foods. 

Use a fireless cooker for foods requiring long cooking. 

Use accurate measurements when following a recipe. 

Keep chickens to eat the imavoidable waste in food. 

Save all paper ; sort, tie in packages, and sell. 

Save all clean rags to sell. 

Eat a variety of foods. 

Eat simple, plain foods. 

Eat slowly and masticate thoroughly. 

Stop eating before you feel "stuffed." 

Good Food is Wasted 

If it gets into the garbage pail 

If it is allowed to spoil 

If it is ruined by careless cooking 

If it is served in larger amounts than are eaten 

If more is eaten than is needed 

Do Not Put into the Garbage Pail but Use to Fertilize the 

War Garden 

Egg shells — after being used to clear coffee 

Potato skins — after having been cooked on the potato. Fifteen per cent 

to 40 per cent of the potato is wasted in paring 
Bones — after having been boiled in the soup kettle 
Coffee grounds — after every meal 
Tea leaves — after every meal 

Asparagus butts — after being cooked and drained for soup 
Spinach — decayed leaves and dirty roots. Use all the rest for a vegetable 

or for soup 
Bacon rind — after melting out the fat 

Ham bone — after cooking with split peas or fresh beans to give flavor 
Celery leaves — after they have been dried and used to flavor soup 



APPENDIX 8i 

Keep Out of the Garbage Pail 

Bread — Even half a slice can be used for toast. Stale bread can be used 
for stuf&ng fish, for crumbs on croquettes, and on top of scalloped dishes, 
or for bread and raisin puddings. 

Crumbs — of different kinds of bread may be crushed, dried, and eaten like 
cereal. 

Fats — of all kinds may be melted and strained, some to be used in place of 
lard or butter in cooking. Those of too strong flavor, as ham or 
mutton fat, should be used for making soap at home. 

Sandwich crusts — Cuttings, from meat or egg sandwiches, should be soaked 
in milk until soft, and with a beaten egg added for each cup of crusts, 
well seasoned, baked in a ramekin and served as a luncheon dish. 

XV. HOW FOOD IS WASTED 1 

I. Wastes in the Producer's Hands 

A. On the Farm — Grains, Fruits, etc. 

a. Bad weather conditions 

b. Insect pests or plant diseases 

c. Lack of fertilizer 

d. Lack of inteUigent care 

e. Too much or too little rain at harvesting season 
/. Shortage of labor 

g. Too long storage before shipping 

h. Poor storage 

i. Harvesting too early or too late (frosts, etc.) 

j. Poor packing due to 

Ignorant labor 

Lack of labor 

Poor containers 

Poor grading by size, color, etc. (pears, oranges, peaches, etc.) 

Rough handling of packages 
k. Overloading of freight car 
/. Poor packing in freight car 

1 Based in part on page 142, bulletin No. 98. (See Appendix, page 88.) 
Discuss when each topic applies, and to what foods and localities each does npt 
apply. Give several examples of each avenue of waste. 



82 FOOD PROBLEMS 

B. On the Farm — Live Stock 

a. Selecting poor breeding-stock 
b Diseases 

c. Wrong feeding 

d. Marketing when too young 

e. Keeping "boarder" cows 

/. Keeping food products too long before marketing (eggs) 
g. Poor care in shipping 

C. From Woods and Waters (Fish and Game) 

a. Catching fish or game when too yoimg 

b. Too long storage imder poor conditions 

c. Poor packing 

J. Failure to ice properly 

D. In Factory {Canning, Meat Packing, etc.) 

a. Spoilage from insanitary conditions 

b. Spoilage due to ignorant workers 

c. Spoilage due to lack of workers 

d. Too few or poorly devised containers 

e. By-products not used (particularly meat) 

2. Wastes in Transit 

(In hands of transportation companies) 

A. At Shipping Point 

a. Shortage of cars 

b. Poorly designed or improper cars 

c. Overloading transit trucks 

d. Poor packing of car 

B. In Handling Trains 

a. Trains skipping icing stations 

b. Refrigeration poor or lacking 

c. Cars not frost proof 

d. Delays due to 

Poor management, causing tie-ups 

Strikes 

Floods and storms 



APPENDIX 83 

C. After Arrival 

a. Congestion at terminals due to 

Shortage of tracks 
Insufl&cient facilities for unloading 
Strikes or other labor troubles 
Lack of storage place for goods 

b. Holding of cars to profit by market changes 

c. Thrown away by receiver of goods because 

Wholly imsoimd 

Partly unsoimd but not worth overhauling 
Partly unsound but no f acihties for overhauling 
Sound, but not favorable 

d. Poor handling. 

3. In Distribution 

(From the transportaticn company to the consimier) 

A. Wholesale 

a. Failure to remove goods from terminal promptly 

b. Poor transit facilities 

c. Goods held too long by wholesaler 

d. Poor storage facilities 

e. Goods stored in poor condition 
/. Overstocking 

g. Damage by rats, insects, etc. 

B. Retaa 

a. Food thrown away through carelessness or inefficiency 

b. Through fancies of customers 

c. Due to use of food for trimming and display 

d. Overstocking 

e. Exposure to dust and insects 

/. Failure to sell at cut-rates where food is partly deteriorated 

4. In the Kitchen 

A. Hotel or Restaurant 

a. Stale bread and leftovers thrown away 

b. Slack business methods 



84 FOOD PROBLEMS 

c. Portions too large and too many free "side orders " 

d. Too much variety in dishes or single items 

e. Overstocking 

/. Influence of custom (serving sugar on the table, etc.) 
g. Improper disposal of waste (burning garbage, etc.) 

B. Private Family 

a. Throwing away good food 

h. Poor storage (insects, mold, etc.) 

c. Waste in preparation 

d. Poor cooking 

e. Serving too much 

/. Serving an unbalanced ration 
g. Overeating 

XVI. HOW MONEY IS WASTED ON FOOD » 

1. Food itself is wasted as shown in Table XV 

2. Food passes through too many hands 

3. Speculators raise prices 

4. Not enough terminal or city markets 

5. Too many small stores 

6. Food is bought out of season 

7. Transportation is expensive 

8. Retail delivery costs are high 

9. Charge accounts are used too often 

10. Extravagance in service and display is required of food sellers 

11. Home goods are not bought 

1 AU these wastes are illustrated in problems. See if you can find the problems 
on these topics. 



LIST OF FREE BULLETINS FOR WHICH SCHOOLS 

MAY WRITE! 

Note. Bulletins which are marked * are especially good. If your state college 
is not in this list, write and ask for any bulletins bearing on food conservation which 
have been published there. This list is not complete for all states. 

Extension Service, College op Agmculture, University of Nebraska, 

Lincoln, Nebraska 

*i. Economy in the Use of Fats 

*2. Substitutes for White Flour in Bread Making 

*3. How to Substitute Other Foods for Meat 

*4. Prevention of Food Waste 

5. Whole Wheat Flour 

Extension Service, Oregon Agricultural College, Corvallis, Oregon 

6. Preservation of Fruits and Vegetables 

7. The Use of Dried Fruite and Vegetables 

8. War Breads and Cakes 

9. Substitutes for Meat 
10. Food for the Family 

College of Agriculture, University op Illinois, Urbana, Illinois 

*ii. Experiments in Teaching Food Values 

12. The Principles of Jelly-making 

13. Home Canning by the Cold-Pack Method 

14. Some Points to be Considered in the Planning of a Rational Diet 
*i5. War Bread Recipes 

*i6. Corn and Com Products Used as Food 
17. Fats and Oils in Cookery 

1 Do not write for more than one copy. 

8S 



86 FOOD PROBLEMS 

t 

Extension Division, Michigan Agricultural College, Lansing, Michigan 

i8. Rules for Planning the Family Dietary 

19. Food Values 

20. War Breads 

21. Market Classes and Grades of Meat 
*22. Milk 

23. Vegetable Foods 

24. Eggs 

Extension Service, Connecticut Agricultural College, Storrs, 

Connecticut 

25. Peaches: Their Use and Conservation 

26. Pickles — Chow-Chow — Chili Sauce — Sauerkraut, etc. 

27. Jellies, Jams, and Marmalades 

28. Eat Less Wheat — Try Wheatless Meals 

29. Home Cheese Making 
*3o. Wheat Substitutes 
*3i. Potatoes in the Diet 
*32. Meat Substitutes 
*S3» Milk 

*34. Eat Less Meat 

*SS' Cutting the Meat Bills with Milk 

*36. Save the Sugar for the Soldiers 

Extension Service, Massachusetts Agricultural College, Amherst, 

Massachusetts 

37. Hogs on Every Farm in 1917 

38. Preparation Wastes 

39. Table Wastes 

40. How to Save Wheat Flour 

41. Storage Wastes 

42. Community Canning and Evaporating 

43. Methods of Saving Fats 

44. The Importance of the Dairy Cow 

Agricultural Extension Service, University of Wisconsin, Madison, 

Wisconsin 

45. Cold Pack Canning 

46. How to Cook Soy Beans 



APPENDIX 87 

47. Preserve Eggs for Winter Use 

48. Dry Surplus Fruits and Vegetables 

49. Other Kinds of Bread 

50. Help Fill the Nation's Flour Barrel 

51. Twelve Ways to Cook Carp 

52. Grow Beans 

Extension Department, Iowa State College of Agriculture and 

Mechanic Arts, Ames, Iowa 

53. Com and Its Uses 

54. Wheat Saving Suggestions 

55. Home Storage of Vegetables 

56. Emergency Meals at Low Cost 

57. Uses of Sour Milk 

58. Left-over Foods 

59. Plain Patterns in Cookery 

Committee on Public Information, Washington, D. C. 
*6o. National Service Handbook 

New York State College of Agriculture, Cornell University, Ithaca, 

New York 

*6i. Short Cuts for the Home Dietitian 

62. Milk : A Cheap Food 

63. Waste of Meat in the Home 

*64. Crop Yields and Prices, and Our Future Food Supply 

United States Food Administration, Washington, D. C. 

*65. Home Card 

♦66. BuUetin No. i 

*67. Bulletin No. 2 

*68. The Present Campaign 

*69. Grain and Live Stock 

*7o. Ten Lessons on Food Conservation 

*7i. Graphic Exhibits on Food Conservation 

72. Commodity Licensing 

*73. A Few Food Problems 

*74. Creation of United States Food Administration (Bulletin 6) 

*75. War Economy in Food (includes recipes and suggestions) 



88 FOOD PROBLEMS 

United States Department of Agriculture, Washington, D. C. 

*76. Wastes — The Leaks in a Nation's Strength 

*77. Food Thrift Series — Nos. i to 8 

*78. Care of Food in the Home 

*79. How to Select Foods — I, II, HI 

So. Food for Young Children 

*8i. Economical Use of Meat in the Home 

82. Mutton and Its Value in the Diet 

*83. Sugar and It^ Value as a Food 

84. Honey and Its Uses in the Home 

85. Use of Corn, Kafir, and Cowpeas in the Home 
*86. Preparation of Vegetables for the Table 

87. Fresh Fruits and Vegetables as Conservers of Other Staple Foods 

88. Preservation of Vegetables by Fermentation and Salting 

89. Drying Fruits and Vegetables in the Home 

90. Home Canning by the One-Period Cold-Pack Method 
*9i. The Use of Milk as Food 

92. The Care of Milk and Its Use in the Home 

93. Bread and Bread Making in the Home 

94. Partial Substitutes for Wheat in Bread Making 
*95. Corn Meal as a Food and Ways of Using It 
*96. Use of Fruit as Food 

Mayor Mitchell's Food Committee, City Hall, New York City 
*97. Hints to Housewives 

The American Academy of Political and Social Science, Concord, 

New Hampshire 

♦98. The World's Food (Price $1.00) 

Agricultural Experiment Station, University of California 

99. Living Expenses 

100. Food Standards 

loi. Bulletins of the Committee on Resources and Food Supply of the 
State CouncU of Defense 

U. S. Bureau of Fisheries, Washington, D. C. 
*io2. Pamphlets on the Use of Fish as Food 



SOURCES OF PROBLEM MATERIAL 



lOBU 


EM Bulletin 




Problem Bulletin * 


1 


74, p. 7 




40 


2, p. I 


2 


98, p. 9 




41 


5, pp. 1-2 


3 


74, p. 18 




51 


31, p. 2 




98, p. 153 




52 


Crop Report, United States 




97, p. 153 






Department of Agriculture, 




97, p. 148 






September, 191 7 




77, No. I, p. 2 




54 


31, p. 2 


11 


77, No. s, p. 6 




56 


30, p. 2 


12 


Correspondence 




58 


2, p. 5 


14 


From "Problems about War,?' 


59 


Crop Reportj United States 




p. 6. Carnegie 


Endowment 




Department of Agriculture, 




for International Peace, 407 




September, 191 7 




W 117th St., 


New York 


61 


16, p. 3 




City 




63 


69 


15 


73, pp. lo-ii 




64 


34 ; correspondence United 


16 


73, p. 10 






States Bureau of Agriculture 


17 


98, p. 232 




65 


Correspondence United States 


18 


98, p. 22s 






Bureau of Agriculture 


19 


98, p. 226 




67 


34 


21 


98, p. 86 




68 


73, p. 7 


22 


64 




69 


74, p. 25 


23 


98, pp. 1-33 




70 


21, p. 6 


24 


69, pp. 6-7 




71 


34 


25 


Poster, Kansas State Council 


72 


76 




of Defense 




73 


21, p. 5 


26 


50, also correspondence 


78 


Correspondence — Quarter- 


27 


66, p. 21 






master General, Washing- 


28 


73, p. 7 






ton, D. C. 


37 


Correspondence 


— United 


82 


52, also correspondence Dept. 




States Bureau 


of Agricul- 




of Agriculture, University of 




ture, Washington, D. C. 




Wisconsin, Madison, Wis. 



^ The number refers to the bulletins as numbered in the bibliography, pages 
85-88. 

89 



