7? 5^7 



LIBRARY OF CONGRESS 



013 826 886 ft # 



HoIIinger Corp. 
pH8.5 



UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS BULLETIN 



Vol. XV 



ISSUKD WkKKLV 

JULY 22, 1918 



No. 47 



LEiUfieil as second-cl.ass matter Decemlicr ii, 1912, at tlic post office at Urbana, Illinois 
iiiuler the Act of August 24, 19 12 J 



SUGAR IN WAR TIME 



By 

VIOLA J. ANDERSON 

Instructor in Household Science 




PUBLISHED BY THE WAR COMMITTEE 
OF THE UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS 
URBANA 



Of all the sweets available, why use here the one which is needed abroad 



<^ 



V 



t 



SUGAR IN WAR TIME 

'rill': SITUATION 

Due liirjj;L-ly to lack of ships the stores of sugar in the United States 
liave materially decreased. The largest part of our cane sugar comes from 
Cul)a, Porto Rico, and Hawaii, and while some heet sugar has been produced 
in the United States, it docs not yet constitute more than twenty-two per- 
cent of the tc^tal sugar used. The shortage in England, France, and Italy is 
much more serious tlian in the United States, because of the greater distances 
to lie covered in the transportation of cane sugar, and because the beet sugar 
industry in France, which supplied all her sugar needs and even allowed her 
to export a little, was paralyzed at once at the beginning of the war. Ninety- 
live ])ercent of the sugar beet factories in France were in the territory first 
occupied liy the enemy in 1914 and 1915. 

Tlie amount of sugar used in the United States has been enormous, and 
is increasing from year to year. A comparison between our consumption 
per cai)ita in 1917 and in former years is shown in the following table, and, 
for furtlier comparison, the sugar rations of the allies for tlie present year 
are included. This does not seem to show a fair division among friends. 

■ Y'r.'.HLv Pi:K C/vi'ir.. Consumi'tiox of Sugar in Tnii Uniticu States 

^'"''^ 12-93 60.70 pounds 1907-08 74-11 pounds 

..<97-98 47.55 pounds 191-^-1,3 85.04 pounds 

1902-03 78.92 pounds 1917-18 84.35 pounds 

Wkkkly Allo\vance.s of Sugar Among The Allhcs in 1918 

Italyi 14 pound England Yj pound 

France 14 pound United State;- .)4 jiound 

1. Lesis lliaii tliis is actually used. The- ration limits the wealthy, while the ijuoier elasses 

doubtless get very little. 

2. Amount suggested hy the l-'ood Administration. 

a/iep:ting thi-: situation 

Manufacturers in tlie United States who use sugar are limited in most 
cases to eighty percent of tlicir pre-war supply. In tlie liome we can easily 
set for ourselves a lower limit than this. Tlie Food Administration suggests 
a ration of three-fourths of a pound per person jier week. 

Many sweets can be used that do not contain granulated sugar, such as 
fresh and dried fruits, corn and maple sirups, maple sugar, honey, molasses. 
Tlie most important of these at present is corn sirup. 

The sugar in these sweets has the same food value as granulated sugar, 
and their flavors make thein more, rather than less, desirable. 

Give the children plenty of fruit. 

Serue dates, fins, prunes, raisins, and use them in cooking. 

Cse fruits and salads, instead'of puddings and pastries. 

Sweeten desserts zvith sirups. Use sirups zvith canned fruits, preserves, 
and jellies. 

When candy is eaten, let it be niarshmalUncs, gum drops and glaccd nuts, 
rather than chod'olate creams and bonbons. 



RECIPES 

In these recipes, sulistitutes for wheat flour— corn, potato, oats, barley, 
rice— should be used, as usual. Use mixtures found successful m other re- 
cipes. ' , 1 1 r M • ^ 

For fats other than butter, use oleo and vegetable fats, or with spiced 
puddings and cookies, clarified drippings from meats. 

General Direction.s For The Use of Sirups in Baking 
it is possible to l)ake witliout using any granulated sugar. Corn sirup, 
honey maple sugar, maple sirup, and molasses will sweeten muffins, cakes, 
and cookies. In using corn sirup, however, it is well to remember that it 
contains some water, and its sugars are less sweet than granulated sugar. 
When using c«ie cup of this sirup, the liquid called for by the recipes may 
l)e reduced by apprtjximately one-fourth cup. One cup of the sirup will iiave 
a little less sweeten power than three-fourths of a cup of sugar, in the 
very sweet cakes it is not satisfactory to use all sirup and no sugar. 1 he 
product is very ginnmy, and falls. However, one cup of sirup may be used 
to one and three-fourths cups of flour with fair success. In some of the 
following recipes three-fifths of a cup of sirup has been allowed to two-hfths 
of a cup of sugar, since this is found to give very good results. 

The sweetening power of honey is practically eciual to that of sugar, cup 
for cup. A little less than one-fourth of a cup of liquid should be subtracted 
from the recipe for each cup of honey used. Since honey is acid, soda should 
be used, as with molasses, but it is seldom necessary to allow more tlian one- 
fourth teaspoonful of soda to one cup of honey. 

Griddle Cakes 
I'/, cups (lour (corn, rice, barley) 2 tablespoons corn sirup 

3 teaspoons baking powder i fSK 

i teaspoon salt ^ .„ ' tablespoon fat 

I ;4 cups niilK 
Mix and sill dry ingredients. Add milk, sirup, and beaten egg, nuxed tugether, and 
then add tile melted fat. 

Griddle cakes made with sirups biown unusually well. 

MUFI'INS 

2 tablespoons melted fat i cup mashed potato 

J tablespoons corn sirup ' tup corn n.eal 

, egg, well beaten 4 teaspoons Ijakiug powde. 

, cup milk ■ tt^sP""" «:''t 

Mix in iirder given. 

The batter shoidd be a little stiffer than batter for wheat mullius. 

Yellow Honey Cakes 
1/ ,.,,1, f-,i /4 teaspoon soda 

i e": honey ^--."-'" ^'^^'^ ""-'-• 

^\ ' % teaspoon .salt 

,/j cup nnlk , , .'/^ teaspoon flavoring 

i]A cups flour (barley, rice, corn) 
lleil tile fat lioiiey, and milk until blended. Add yolks, and when cool, the Jry in- 
gredients iiiixell and shifted together. A.ld flavoring. Cut and fold m the beaten whites. 
Bake in a moderate oven for thirty to forty minutes. 

Honey Devil's Food 

1/ ,-m. f-it 'A cup milk 

r\.up"honey ^H cups barley or other lluur 

. squares chocolate i^ teaspi:";;" baking powder 

% teaspoon salt 
lie-It the fat honey, and chocolate until blended. Add yolks, and when cool, the milk 

.an.lsVfted dry ingredients, alternately. Fold in the beaten whites. Bake in a moderate 
oven forty niinules. 



FouNiiATioN Cake 



]4 cup fat 
3/5 cup sirup 
2/5 cup sugar 
1/3 cup milk 



2 eggs 

1 y4 cups flour (barley, rice 

2 teaspoons baking powdci 
1/16 teaspoon salt 

Ad 



Cream the fat, and mix thoroly with the corn sirup, sugar, and eggs 
grcdients, mixed and sifted together. Pour into ; 
oven for half an hour. 

Vanilla, almond, chocolate, or other tl.ivoring, 
be added to this foundation. 

Sirup may replace all the sugar. The cake will 1 



n oiled pan, and bake 
hni>i)<'d inUs, or elini)pe(l 
of poorer texture, bill a f 



, corn) 

d dry in- 
1 moderate 

1,'iles, may 

ir product. 



Steamed PiinniNi 



■J4 cup ilrlur (rice or corn) 



i/.? teaspoon soda 
I'i teasj 



yi cup fat 

yi cup corn sirup 

I egg li teaspoon salt 

16 cup graham flour 2/3 cup raisins, figs, or dates 

Cream the fat, and mix thoroly with the corn sirup and egg. Add dry ingredients 
mixed and sifted together, and the dried fruit. Turn into an oiled mold, cover, and steam 
tvifo and one-half hours. 



I cup molasses 
1/2 cup boiling water 
254 cup flour (rice, barley, 
I teaspoon soda 
Blend molasses with water, 
egg and melted fat. Beat well 

\ 



(^INCERnREAn 

I '/i teaspoon ginger 

'/, teaspoon salt 
corn) 4 tablespoons fat 

I egg, well beaten 
Add dry ingredients, mixed and sifted together. Add 
Bake in a moderate oven. 



Spice Cookies 



14 cup fat 1/2 teaspoon baking powder 

''/2 cup cum r.irup J/:^ cup raisins 

I egg |/^ teaspoon cinnamon 

1 !4 cup, or more, flour (rice, barley, corn) J^g teaspoon clove, mace, nutmeg 
Mix in order given. Enough flour should be used to make a stiff dough. Roll to one- 
eighth inch in thickness, cut, and bake in moderate oven. 

Maple Icing 

% cup maple sirup i egg white 

'/i cup corn sirup lieaten until stiff 

Cook the mixture of sirups until a long thread forms, when it is dropped from the 
spoon. Pour slowly over egg white, beat until smooth and stiff, and spread over cake. 

Maple Cream 

2 cups maple sugar Pinch of salt 

34 cup milk I tablespoon butter 

Cook sugar, milk, and salt together, until a soft ball forms when tried in cold water, 
or until thermometer registers 113'C. Cool slightly, and then beat until creamy. Cboiiped 
nuts may be added. 

Rolled Fruit 

I pound dates ;4 pound nut meats 

:?/.! cup raisins 2 tablespoons orange juice 

Wash fruit, stone the dales, and put fruit with nuts thru a meat chopper. Blend 
thoroly with orange juice. Let stand for twenty-four hours. Mold into shape. Shapes 
may be rolled in a little granulated sugar or grated cocoanut which has been dried and 
slightly browned in the oven. 

Stuited Prunes 

Select sweet prunes. Soak over night. Dry, open carefully, remove stones, and stuff 
with chopped raisins and nuts. Roll in granulated sugar. 



LIBRARY OF CONGRESS 



013 826 886 A • 



LIBRARY OF CONGRESS 



013 825 886 fi • 



Hollinger Corp. 
pH8.5 



