
TX 715 
.P44 
Copy 1 



GOLDEN RULE 
COOK BOOK 




<3y 

Mrs. Ida Cogswell Bailey Alleiv 

ENDORSED LECTURER 

U. S. Food Administration 
WRITTEN ESPECIALLY FOR 

THE CITIZENS' WHOLESALE SUPPLY CO, 
Columbus, Ohio. 



1 MEASURED BY THE GOLD 









NOT FOUND WA 





AT THE PANAMA-PACIFIC 

INTERNArFIONAfc 

EXPOSITION, 

San Francisco, 1915 

Golden Rule 
Products 

were driven 



37-Awa^ds 37 



compn^i n. 




31 Gold, Silver and Bronze Medals 
and & Honorable Mentionc?- 
A World's Record, in Competition with the Woi*ld 




WT WEIOHT. SIX otrwn 

GOLDEN RUl 



k (§|g) Dl 

P.** GAME.' MADF.0M* 



^'wholesale's^; 

£"« (two s„ J 





IOUOEN RUI 

UKE J 





l»W Q*£M£ £25 





Marshmallo* 
Creme 





/\ • G r* o u p • o f" 

GOLDEN Rl/LE 
MEDAL WINNERS 

•At The 

Parxaircva-PaLcific 
InteiMoi^ Exposition 



c^pcoDTT-jrrp^n^i^fi Tsc^CL^g^rs^ 



THE GOLDEN RULE 
COOK BOOK 



(Third Edition) 



Menus for Every Day 

Suggestions for Entertaining 

Over Two Hundred Tested Recipes 



BY 

MRS. IDA COGSWELL BAILEY ALLEN 

EDITOR 

'''Housewives' Forum," Pictorial Review 

ENDORSED LECTURER 

U. S. Food Administration 

WRITER FOR 

Leading Magazines and Newspapers 

LECTURER FOR 

The Westfield Standards of Pure Foods 



WRITTEN EXPRESSLY FOR 

THE GOLDEN RULE HOUSE 

The Citizens' Wholesale Supply Co. 
COLUMBUS, OHIO, U. S. A. 



COPYRIGHT 1918, BY 
THE CITIZENS' WHOLESALE SUPPLY CO. 




c^? coDTLJTm^ rm'^n t^^tzjitl^t^' 




' CONSIDER myself very fortunate to have found at last the 
Golden Rule foods — a line of absolutely pure, high-grade 
products which I can safely use in my own household. I take 
great pleasure in recommending the goods sold by 
The Citizens' Wholesale Supply Company. I find 
them of unfailing high quality, correct weight, 
scrupulously clean, and that they can be purchased 
at a saving of from ten to forty per cent. 

JUL 22 iyi« * 

fed.A500688 




cc^co^rLjf Tp^ r^v^r^T Tg^roj rui^ ^ 



PilM^JH^riSJa iiLffliiJliia^liiJglHJilB^lSS^IH^IiLHIiLHI^ 



®ahl? of (taie nts 



P/1G£ 

Preface - 5 

A Visit to the Home of Golden Rule Products 9 

Planning the Every-Day Menu 15 

War Menus 20 

General Rules for Measuring 23 

Beginnings of Various Meals 25 

Soups of Various Kinds 30 

Cereal Foods 36 

Quick Breads - - 41 

Vegetables 48 

Meats and Fish 57 

Salads 68 

Desserts — - 77 

Cakes 

Sandwiches for Various Occasions 

Pastry 

Cookies and Little Cakes 

Candies ' 114 

Beverages, Hot and Cold 120 

War Recipes 123 

Ideas for Entertaining 125 



^li rararfireTfiCT^^ 




r^^ro^ r^^T"p^r^ c ^^r T^/ex^EL^i 



THE HOME OF 

THE GOLDEN RULE PRODUCTS 






e^ 



Tk 
Citizens' 

"Wholesale 

Supply 

Compajxy 



c^sco^ rL-jrrp^r^ 'T^T tw^tujul^tm?^ 



PREFACE 



THE GOLDEN RULE, "All things whatsoever ye would 
that men should do to you, do ye even so to them," was 
adopted by The Citizens' Wholesale Supply Company 
upon its organization in 1894, not merely as a mark to dis- 
tinguish its goods from other goods, but as a motto which 
every individual, high or low, connected with the Company, 
must follow. 

To practice the Golden Rule, in supplying Food Products, 
it is obvious that certain principles must be followed: 

1st. Absolute Purity is an essential. 

2nd. To attain this, absolute cleanliness is a necessity. 

3rd. To realize this, not only must the raw materials be 
clean and free from blemish, but the conditions sur- 
rounding their manufacture, packing and handling 
must be scrupulously clean and sanitary. 

To insure these prime requisites, therefore, all materials 
are tested in our thoroughly equipped, up-to-date testing lab- 
oratory, under the personal supervision of our chief chemist, 

and every item not up to the Golden Rule Standard is promptly 
discarded. 

The manufacturing, packing and handling is done under 
the supervision of experts in magnificent buildings constructed 
especially for the work, so well lighted that the sun has access 
to almost every nook and corner; and the sanitary conditions 
are so excellent, and cleanliness is esteemed as so near to god- 
liness, — as should be the case with, a House following the 
Golden Rule, — that our plant, from the splendidly equipped 
Display Rooms to the darkest nook in the manufacturing de- 
partment; from the modern, cold storage section to the very 
roof, is open at all times for the inspection of our friend and 
supporter, the public. 

5 



Considering these facts, it is not surprising that Mrs. 
Allen, undoubtedly the most famous cooking expert in Amer- 
ica, most heartily endorses Golden Rule Products. 

It is not surprising that Prof. Lewis B. Allyn (no relation 
to Mrs. Allen), one of the most noted Pure Food Experts in 
the entire world, the originator of the famous Westfield 
Standard, (adopted from Coast to Coast as the most exacting 
standard in this country), then Pure Food Editor of the Ladies' 
World and other McClure publications, sent us the following 
letter: 



Lewis B. Allyn 



November 
Twenty 
1911. 
The Citizens' Wholesale Supply Company, 

Columbus, Ohio. 

Gentlemen :- 

Agreeable to your request of October 9th., we beve 
completed the tests of your products as per enclosed sheets 
within 3ixty days. 

We have given the matter our personal attention and have 
made over a hundred testa and determinations, The tests were 
made to define the purity, the determinations, in most cases, to 
determine the grade or quality. 

After going rather deeply into the matter, we can state 
with pleasure that we have never examined a line of goods which 
rate as a whole better than your Golden Rule Products, 
Those that we have examined were not only legally pure, but were 
what is of almost equal importance,-- of distinctly high grade. 
They rank sufficiently high to be given a place in our Pure 
Pood Display. 



The term "Golden Rule" is a good term to apply to 



these products. 



& 



o^° 



With assurances of esteem, ^ «i\^ 

Chemist for the Board of Hffelth. 



LBA - FN. 



And lastly, it is not surprising that, at the great Interna- 
tional Exposition, the Panama-Pacific, held at San Francisco 
during 1915, where Golden Rule Pure Food Products were ex- 
hibited in the Westfield Pavilion, they were given 

37 AWARDS, Comprising 

31 GOLD, SILVER, AND BRONZE MEDALS 

And 6 Honorable Mentions 

a World's Record — in competition with the greatest Food 
Manufacturing concerns on the entire globe. 

A fac-simile of the medals is shown on another page. 

For more than twenty years have the Golden Rule Prod- 
ucts forced their way through their intrinsic merit, to the rec- 
ognition and endorsement of the greatest living authorities. 

Beginning at a time when there were no Food Laws, Na- 
tional nor State (with the exception of inadequate and poorly 
enforced statutes in three or four of the States), and with the 
opposition of the almost entire Grocery Trade entrenched be- 
hind their swollen profits from unclean, adulterated, unwhole- 
some, and sometimes even diseased foods, which for decades 
they had been foisting upon the unsuspecting public; and 
against which opposition, it has had to fight its way even to 
the Supreme Court of the United States, the Golden Rule 
House has gone on, ever advancing in its intensely practical 
propaganda of "Pure Food for the Home," and in its advocacy 
of the Golden Rule in Business, until its great organization 
extends from Coast to Coast of this great country of ours, and 
commands the recognition of the greatest exponents of these 
principles. 

Golden Rule Products are sold direct to the consumer, — 
from the Factory to the Home, — eliminating the profits of 
Broker, Wholesaler and Retailer and rendering it possible to 
deliver at the Home, the very finest of Pure Food Products, 
Pure Drugs, Toilet Preparations, Perfumery, etc., at a consid- 
erably less price than goods of such high quality can possibly 
be sold at retail. 

To any of our friends not within reach of our sales organ- 
ization, we extend the facilities of our mail order department. 
A postal will bring a prompt reply. 



WHY MRS. ALLEN WROTE THE BOOK 

Especial attention is directed to the significant fact that 
Mrs. Allen has not heretofore consented to write a cook book 
for any other manufacturing concern, although many times 
urged to do so. Her great satisfaction with Golden Rule 
Products used in her lecture work and in her own home, in- 
duced her to take this step. 

Mrs. Allen has no theoretical, impractical, visionary ideas. 
She recommends only after actual, thorough, personal tests, so 
that she knows. 

The wide range of subjects covered, the menus, the prac- 
tical suggestions for entertaining, the sound advice in Home 
Economics and Dietetics, etc., make this book an 

IDEAL EVERY-DAY HELP, 

appreciated by every woman. 

WAR MENUS AND RECIPES 

On page 20 of this edition of the Cook Book will be found 
a complete set of menus by Mrs. Ida C. Bailey Allen, gotten up 
especially for war time needs. We call special attention to 
these menus, for the reason that they will be a distinct help in 
the conservation movement. These menus were written ex- 
pressly for us by Mrs. Allen, and have each, individually, been 
tested and found to make palatable, nutritious and digestible 
dishes. 

Mrs. Allen, as is well known, does not cater to theory. 
She is a Practical Expert in her line, and the menus may be 
used in their entirety with the knowledge that they will pro- 
duce specific, definite results. 

We have been extremely fortunate in being able to secure 
these menus at this time when every woman is interested in 
using substitutes for certain needs, and we are pleased indeed 
that -we can participate in this way in the nation wide patriotic 
movement. 

We see more clearly every day the evidence that food will 
win the war, and there is no better nor easier way of helping 
than in following the Government's suggestions, and as these 
are all incorporated in the menus it will be a great help to the 
housewife, and we feel that they will be thoroughly appreci- 
ated. 

The Citizens' Wholesale Supply Co. 

Columbus, Ohio, June 25th, 1918. 



fg% coDrL^rs^ is'x?=fi T^sAXJ7n=^T~m 



The Golden Rule Cook Book 

By 

MRS. IDA COGSWELL BAILEY ALLEN 

Specialist, Lecturer, and Writer on Home Economics 



A Visit to the Home of Golden Rule Products 

MY acquaintance with Golden Rule Food Products began in 1912, 
when I was giving a series of demonstration cooking lectures in 
Columbus. At that time I used Golden Rule products and other 
groceries from The Citizens' Wholesale Supply Co., with the most satis- 
fying results and if there is a test for the excellence and reliability of 
food stuffs, it certainly is that of using them successfully for the first 
time before the public, where everyone can see what is done, and can 
view the results. I must say that it took faith, to use an untried baking 
powder, extracts with which I was not acquainted and a new olive oil 
for making mayonnaise, etc., but I followed directions closely, and used 
a smaller amount of baking powder, extracts, spices, etc., as I had been 
told that the Golden Rule products were so pure and efficacious, that less 
could be used than usual. 

I found that these products were indorsed by the eminent chemist, 
Prof. Lewis B. Allyn, of Westfield, and there is no greater guarantee of 
high standing, so I decided to investigate them thoroughly. To begin 
with, I spent a most profitable morning at the plant of The Citizens' 
Wholesale Supply Co. 

The show room is a beautiful sight, with its display cases of all 
sorts of Golden Rule products, pyramids of canned goods, displays of 
toilet accessories, soaps, perfumes, etc., and original cartons of spices, 
just as they came from the Orient. Bringing together, as it does, food 
stuffs of the finest quality from all over the world, I could only wish 
that every woman who is interested in her household, and every child 
who is studying geography could. see this room. 

I was much interested to note that the only dried fruits which they 
carry consist of raisins, currants and black prunes, and inquiry brought 
forth the answer, that The Citizens' Wholesale Supply Co: were dis- 
carding most other dried fruits because they contain sulphurous acid. 
This was a great surprise, for I did not know that there was a firm of 
grocers in the whole country who really catered to public welfare. I 
further found out that this firm had discarded all ordinary molasses 
which contains sulphurous acid, replacing it with Barbados Molasses 
which is acid free, and can be given to the smallest child without injury. 

As to the effect of sulphurous acid on the body, the best statement 
that I can make will be a direct quotation from Dr. Harvey W. Wiley : 
"It adds an immense burden to the kidneys which cannot result in any- 



thing but injury. Jt impoverishes the blood .... and is in every sense 
highly prejudicial to health." 

Just as the kitchen is the heart of the home, the laboratory of The 
Citizens' Wholesale Supply Company is the backbone of Golden Rule 
Products. Here all the formulae arc worked out. Here are made all 
the tests for the purity of the many articles used in the business. Any- 
thing which contains injurious preservatives, coal tar dyes or adulter- 
ants, or which is not of strictly high grade, is discarded. 

I have never seen so many fine extracts of unusual flavors as those 
sold by this firm. Perhaps no line of food products is open to as much 
suspicion as Flavoring Extracts. The Pure Food and Drugs Act has 
improved the general run and quality of Flavoring Extracts greatly, 
but that it has not by any means eliminated all the fraud is being dem- 
onstrated daily. 

Extracts of various kinds, especially Vanilla, Orange and Lemon, 
are found on the market not only deficient in strength and flavor, but 
containing materials of such a character as to make them absolutely 
unusable. For instance, Extract of Lemon is found labeled "Lemon 
Compound" with just a trace of Lemon, and products added embracing 
everything in the line of chemistry from ether to coal tar dyes. The 
same condition is true of Orange. In Vanilla the condition is even more 
pronounced. 

The consumer is almost always unable to judge of the quality of 
the materials used; whether they are poisonous or in any way prejudicial 
to health cannot be known to her. It is, therefore, of the utmost* im- 
portance that the housewife rely upon a reliable and known manufac- 
turer of High-Class Flavorings. 

The Citizens' Wholesale Supply Company do not use anything in 
Golden Rule Flavoring Extracts which could not be used by itself. This 
is the supreme test of the flavoring extracts, as many, many of them 
contain chemicals which, if used by themselves, one would use but once! 

Golden Rule Flavoring Extracts are made from high grade selected 
materials in the well-lighted, sanitary and splendidly equipped labora- 
tories and are scientifically and pharmaceutical^ correct. Each prepar- 
ation must pass the exacting requirements of both a Registered Phar- 
macist and the Pharmaceutical and Analytical Chemist. 

The price and quality of Golden Rule Extracts is made possible only 
by immense manufacturing operations and sale DIRECT TO YOU. 
They would have to be sold at almost double the price if sold through 
the regular Broker-Jobber-Wholesaler-Retailer-Consumer channel. 

Each flavoring represents infinite pains, extreme care and select 
materials, most up-to-date and scientific process, applied knowledge of 
and experience with the materials used and the determination to produce 
an extract that may be measured by the Golden Rule and "Found Not 
Wanting." 

If every user of extracts could see the crude materials and the 
manner of handling, extracting, ageing and finishing Golden Rule Fla- 
voring products, there would be few flavoring extracts sold other than 
Golden Rule. Their prestige in the field of flavoring extracts was not 

lined through accident. It has taken twent} years to develop these 
products to their present high standard. 

10 



GOLDEN RULE ALMOND AND PISTACHIO 

This flavor is not as generally used in this country as its intrinsic 
worth would seem to indicate. Almond and Pistachio is one of the 
largest selling flavorings in France, Spain and Italy, it being used by 
the representative class of people of these countries very largely. 

It has the soft Almond flavor combined with the nuttiness of the 
Pistachio. Many people do not care for an Almond flavor alone on 
account of the fact that it is a little bit too sharp. In combination with 
Pistachio, which is extremely mild, yet nutty, it makes a splendid flavor 
for people not caring for the extreme in flavoring. It is a decided 
change from the average flavor and extremely popular with people who 
try it. 

GOLDEN RULE ORANGE FLAVORING 

Among a great many people, Orange Flavoring is not a popular one, 
due largely to the fact that there are exceptionally few Orange Flavors 
that really represent the Orange. 

Realizing this, The Citizens' Wholesale Supply Co. has made strong 
efforts to place an exceptional product on the market, and claim that 
Golden Rule Orange Flavoring is far superior to anything being sold. 
It represents the finest fruit grown, — the sweet Orange of Italy. This 
Orange is raised particularly for use in the highest class extracts. The 
supply of the finer qualities particularly, is limited and, of course, the 
price is in keeping. 

If you are fond of the true Orange flavor, try the Golden Rule 
Orange Flavoring in cakes, ices, in fact in anything, and you will pro- 
nounce it superior to the flavor you are able to obtain from the use of 
the natural fruit. 

You will never know the satisfaction and possibilities of the Orange 
Flavor until you use Golden Rule Orange Extract. 

GOLDEN RULE VANILLA FLAVORING 

This preparation represents all of the best features of twenty 
years' experience and knowledge in extract making. Various brands 
of Vanilla have become popular and then vanished. In fact, it is hard 
to find any brand of Vanilla on the market today that was extremely 
popular fifteen years ago. 

Exactly the reverse of this condition is true of Golden Rule Vanilla 
which is a larger seller today than it has ever been, and is constantly 
increasing in sales and prestige. The reason for this is that The Citizens' 
Wholesale Supply Co. have thoroughly learned the manufacturing of a 
Vanilla Extract, and having obtained the knowledge, placed THE RE- 
SULT OF THAT KNOWLEDGE IN THE EXTRACT. There are 
some people who perhaps know as much of Vanilla, its treatment, care, 
ageing, etc., as we do, but who do not feel that it is worth the time, 
trouble and expense to apply the knowledge. 

GOLDEN RULE LEMON FLAVORING 

This preparation represents the fullest amount of the finest Oil of 
Lemon, containing all its natural elements, which is produced. For 

11 



r^co^rL-jn-p^r-^T^H: Tz^TZJJn^l 



years they have used only the finest Oils that come direct from the 
Lemon groves of Italy. 

Many oils come to the market of second and third grades which 
are pure but are lacking in the quality of the bouquet. The difference 
between lemon oils is one of bouquet, just as the difference in Olive 
Oils is one of flavor. An Oil of Lemon may be legally pure and have 
only half the flavoring strength another oil may have. The Citizens' 
Wholesale Supply Co. have never considered it economical to buy any- 
thing but the very finest oil and it must not only be chemically pure 
and without adulteration of any kind, but it must be of the flowery 
character so necessary to produce an extract of unsurpassed quality. 

Compared with the many flavorings labeled "Compound Lemon" 
or "Imitation Lemon," Golden Rule Lemon Flavoring will go anywhere 
from two to ten times as far. An excellent way of demonstrating this 
is to place a drop of Golden Rule Lemon Extract in an 8 ounce bottle 
of water, shake thoroughly a minute, and note the odor. Compare it 
with the many so-called Lemon Flavorings and note the difference. It 
is a simple, easy, but decidedly convincing test. 

GOLDEN RULE BAKING POWDER 

Golden Rule Baking Powder is one of the finest products of the 
laboratory, and during its manufacture the entire time of the chemist is 
devoted to it. There is an especially constructed drying apparatus for 
the various ingredients which require the entire absence of moisture. 
This drying apparatus is steam heated. The entire operation of mak- 
ing the baking powder is electrically operated and controlled. Human 
hands do not touch the material in any way, shape or manner. The 
heat is furnished by steam, mixing apparatus driven by electric power; 
the filling and weighing is also electrically controlled. Cans are imme- 
diately sealed the moment the weighing is finished. It is therefore, im- 
possible for any contamination whatever to enter. 

This is a decidedly valuable point, as there is not one house in ten 
that handles their products in such a scientific and sanitary manner. 

Another important point of which few people are able to take ad- 
vantage is this fact: Weather conditions play a very important part 
in the making of baking powder. The humidity, atmospheric conditions, 
are very important points, especially during the day the mixing of the 
various ingredients takes place. This matter is very carefully looked 
after and on days unfavorable to the production of a high-class baking 
powder, they never attempt to make it. This is considerable trouble and 
entails added expense, but experience has proven that it is well worth it. 
This is simply another point to show the extreme care and absolutely 
accurate treatment Golden Rule Baking Powder receives. 

The materials used in the baking powder are of the greatest im- 
portance, but it is a well known fact that the very best materials may be 
made into very mediocre baking powder by a careless operator, or by 
not observing the necessary conditions. 

The very purest bicarbonate of soda is purchased that the market 
affords. It is powdered to just the right degree of fineness. This buy- 
ing is a matter of extreme importance which is never overlooked. There 
are, as you know, many grades of starch. Nothing but the finest pow- 

12 



dered starch ever enters into this item. The Cream of Tartar is always 
tested and must absolutely conform to the standards set by the United 
States Dispensatory, which means that it must be free from impurities. 
The Calcium Phosphate is of equal importance to the Cream of Tartar. 
Perhaps, no item in the baking powder field is so variable in quality as 
Calcium Phosphate. It is, perhaps, needless to say that the Calcium 
Phosphate for baking powder to be of the value required, must be not 
only a very pure article, but a very active and efficient one as well. 
If paid $1.00 a pound to produce a better powder it could not be done 
because, as stated, The Citizens' Wholesale Supply Co. have the space, 
the light, the equipment, the power, the experience, the buying facil- 
ities, in -fact, everything required for the production of the very finest 
baking powder it is possible to make. 

The tea and coffee room is an interesting place where various cof- 
fees and teas are being prepared for sale. I may add that I have thor- 
oughly tried out in my own home five of the coffee blends perfected in 
this room, and that they are all delicious, although the most stringent 
test was used. 

The spice room was pungent with the odor of ground cinnamon 
which had been prepared that morning. The Golden Rule Spices are 
"different," representing only the very highest grade grown in locali- 
ties where the best possible spices are obtained. Each particular spice 
is SELECTED and ground in mills under the supervision of an expert 
grinder. It, therefore, follows that Golden Rule Spices are not only 
pure but are the very finest quality. Spices are being recognized more 
and more as being important to the diet and' it is needless to say that no 
one knowingly cares to take into the system a lot of exhausted, fibrous 
or woody matter so often present in ordinary spices. I was shown the 
siftings from ginger which had been ground the previous day. Many 
firms mix their ginger with this fibrous matter, but The Citizens' Whole- 
sale Supply Co. discard it, which is one of the reasons for strength. 
However, the Golden Rule people do not stop at producing pure goods, 
they think ahead to make the housewife's work easier. One proof of this 
lies in the cans of various colors which are used for the spices, a glance 
sufficing to show the housekeeper just what spice she needs. 

The store rooms are light, airy and as thoroughly clean as the whole 
clean building. The goods were all carefully protected, many goods 
being put up in cartons, and were openly arranged on shelves so that 
the closest inspection could be invited. To list the innumerable products 
in this huge room would be a lengthy task, but it contained everything 
that the most exacting housekeeper could desire to set a perfect table, 
among them some "real" vinegar. Good vinegar is one of the most dif- 
ficult articles to obtain, but Golden Rule Vinegar is the actual article, 
made from the first pressing only, of the finest apples, from the world's 
famous apple region of New York. Mere sourness in vinegar does not 
mean anything — acetic acid (made by destructive distillation of wood) 
would give that. Its aromatic properties, its pungency, make vinegar 
of value to the diet by giving zest. Golden Rule Vinegar represents 
not only the natural acid properties of the finest apples, but also the 
pungency, aromatics and iron oxide (natural iron) all of the highest 
value as digestive aids. 

Strong body building is possible only through pure foods properly 

13 



C^s>CoDTL=jl^>rmi^l T^^^JJTL^T^^i^ 



prepared. What mother would knowingly poison her family or thwart 
proper growth? Yet this is exactly what is done when foods contain- 
ing sulphurous acid, alum, and benzoate of soda are given to them, or 
when products which are half spoiled and often colored with coal tar 
dyes enter into the family diet. One of the slogans of the age is 
"READ THE LABEL." This is the housewife's protection ; but in pur- 
chasing the ('.olden Rule products, reading the label can only prove to 
her that The Citizens' Wholesale Supply Company stands for all that is 
best in pure foods. 



M 



c^> co^ rurp^ r^ ^r^t T^^TXJ7n-^ r^ 



Planning the Every-Day Menu 



ONE evening when living in the country, my husband and I stopped 
at the store and found a group of farmers sitting around the stove, 
arguing about the merits of the balanced ration for animals. Fin- 
ally one old man who had been quiet up to a certain point in the heated 
discussion, said, "My experience has been, if you want to git yu've got 
to feed," 

This crude axiom applies to human beings just as much as to ani- 
mals, although the majority of women are not yet educated in regard 
to the balanced ration, probably because it sounds so very difficult. All 
food materials may be grouped under certain heads. 

1. Proteids. Including meats, fish, cheese, eggs, nuts, milk, dried 
vegetables and undenatured cereals. 

2. Starches. Including cereals, breads of all kinds, macaroni, spa- 
ghetti, white and sweet potatoes, beets and carrots, cornstarch, tapioca 
and cereal pudding, etc. 

3. Sweets. All desserts, which may be starchy as well, gelatines, 
confections, crystallized ginger, candied pineapple, jellies, sugar, maple 
syrup, honey, etc. 

4. Fats. Butter, cream, oleomargarine, olive oil, fat bacon, etc. 

5. Minerals. All fruits, green vegetables and tomatoes. Fruit 
drinks, fruit gelatines, and stewed and canned fruits. 

6. Liquids. Soups, gelatines, watery fruits, coffee, tea, milk and 
cocoa. 

A balanced meal consists of the correct combinations of these va- 
rious food constituents. To be balanced, a meal should contain one 
article from each list, with two from the starch list. If a meal, for in- 
stance, has too many starches, it does not satisfy the craving of the body 
and an abnormal appetite results. The starch habit is one of the pitfalls 
for most housewives. The quantity to be apportioned for each meal 
depends upon the individual needs. Very often, when an approximately 
balanced ration is introduced, the amount of food which is usually con- 
sumed by the family is considerably reduced because every portion of the 
body is receiving the nutriment that it demands. 

However, the balanced ration cannot be planned without thought. 
The best and easiest method consists in scheduling the meals ahead for 
a week at a time — planning them out on paper. If this is done faults 
in combining show at once ; for instance, it might seem that escalloped 
potatoes, white bread, rice pudding and cake could be used together for 
supper. But when written out any woman can see that the meal would 
neither be satisfying nor palatable because all the dishes are starchy 
and therefore of similar taste. Any meal to be successful must contain 
enough dishes to produce variety, otherwise the family will leave the 
table with a feeling of dissatisfaction. Sometimes a meal that would 
otherwise be flat can be made successful by the addition of some food 

15 



of distinctly different flavor, such as a glass of tart jelly, some chow 
chow, or a salad. Again, color enters into the making of a good meal, 
any woman who cooks instinctively putting together foods of contrast- 
ing shades. For example, a light sauce with a dark meat, a dark sauce 
with a light pudding, etc. 

In planning menus for a week it is a wise plan to leave one meal 
vacant, either luncheon or supper, as the case may be, so that all left- 
overs may be utilized at that time. The best way to do is to divide a 
large piece of paper into squares, allowing three for each day in the 
Aveek ; for breakfast, luncheon and dinner, and writing the menus in their 
respective places. One column can be devoted to breakfasts, another 
to luncheons, and a third to dinners. A glance will show exactly what 
has to be prepared for each meal, and often times, foods can be cooked 
one day for the next without loss of time or extra labor, making one 
preparation accomplish the work of two. 

Besides producing a better diet and saving time, strength and worry, 
this system is very economical, making possible considerable saving. It 
is a simple matter when the meals are written out to balance expensive 
foods with inexpensive ones, and often when odds and ends would lie 
around for some time, they can be used up. This is what the manufac- 
turer would call "keeping stock moving." At the same time plans can 
be made so that supplies by the week, two weeks, month, or even six 
months can be ordered at once, making possible considerable saving in 
money over the prices paid when the grocer around the corner is hur- 
riedly patronized. Besides this, it is actually possible to save consider- 
able time by this mothed, as the woman who is constantly running to 
the store or interviewing the grocer, or answering the door for deliv- 
eries once or twice a day, is wasting many minutes which soon amount 
into hours. Again, it is very easy to spend more than one anticipates, 
by this ragged method of expenditures. 

The system of ordering which is conducted by The Citizens' Whole- 
sale Supply Co., is well adapted to help the housewife meet this prob- 
lem, and she will find that by planning ahead, and ordering at stated 
intervals, she will not only save money and confusion, but will find that 
she can actually have a few moments a day to devote to herself. 

MEALS FOR A WEEK 
MONDAY 
Breakfast 

Golden Rule Prunes 

Golden Rule Breakfast Cereal. Cream 

Poached Eggs on Toast 

Golden Rule Buckwheat Cakes 

Golden Rule Coffee 

Luncheon 

Kernelled Corn Soup Crackers 

Escalloped Spaghetti with Tomatoes 

Coffee Sponge Cream 

Golden Rule Tea 

16 



Dinner 

Lamb Pie 

Canned Spinach Mashed Potatoes 

Dressed Lettuce 

Apricot Shortcake Golden Rule Marshmallow Whipped Cream 

Golden Rule Coffee 

TUESDAY 
Breakfast 

Canned Peaches 

Sausages Creamed Potatoes 

Corn Muffins 

Golden Rule Coffee 

Luncheon 

Cream of Pea Soup Crackers 

Tunafish Salad Rolls 

Fruit Tarts Tea 

Dinner 

Roast Beef Browned Pimento Potato 
Stewed Onions Canned String Beans 

Romaine and Asparagus Salad 

Chocolate Pudding Chocolate Sauce 

Golden Rule Coffee 

WEDNESDAY 
Breakfast 

Apples 

Golden Rule Rolled Oats Cream 

Tomato Omelet Whole Wheat Muffins 

Golden Rule Coffee 

Luncheon 

Tomato Bouillon Crackers 

Lima Beans in Border of Curried Rice 

Fruit Jelly Salad 

Golden Rule Tea 

Dinner 

Panned Roast Beef with Golden Rule Worcestershire Sauce 

Browned Potatoes Stewed Tomatoes Canned Peas 

Lettuce and Celery Salad 

Spanish Cream 

, ;„ Golden Rule Coffee 

17 



C^Co^ T-L^r^^r^ T^fJ Tg^TUJ TL=4T 



THURSDAY 
Breakfast 

Sliced Oranges 

Scrambled Eggs Fried Potatoes 

Corn Cakes Golden Rule Coffee 

Luncheon 

Welsh Rarebit on Crackers 

Tomato Jelly Salad, with Chopped Walnuts — French Dressing, 

made with Golden Rule Olive Oil 

Sponge Cake Golden Rule Tea 

Dinner 

Cream of Corn Soup 

Sliced Ham, Baked with Grape Juice 

Boiled Golden Rule Rice Canned Spinach 

Celery 

Golden Rule Cocoanut Pudding 

Golden Rule Coffee 



FRIDAY 
Breakfast 

Golden Rule Stewed Prunes 

Golden Rule Rolled Oats, — Light Cream 

Codfish Cakes, with Bacon Toast 

Golden Rule Coffee 

Luncheon 

Escalloped Eggs Baking Powder Biscuits 

Lettuce with Golden Rule French Dressing 

Peach Pie, with Canned Peaches 

Golden Rule Tea 

Dinner 

Asparagus Soup 

Tuna Fish, with Caper Sauce 

Boiled Potatoes Succotash 

Celery 

Hot Ginger Bread, with Golden Rule Marshmallow Whipped Cream 

Golden Rule Coffee 
is 



C^CoDrLJ2S^IS? e X?^fI TIT^TTJT n_>?T 



SATURDAY 

Breakfast 

Grape Fruit 

Broiled Chops Creamed Potatoes 

Golden Rule Pancakes Golden Rule Syrup 

Golden Rule Coffee 

Luncheon 

Baked Beans, Sweetened with Barbados Molasses 

Steamed Brown Bread Pickles 

vSliced Oranges, combined with Stewed Golden Rule Prunes Cookies 

Golden Rule Tea 

Dinner 

Beef Loaf — Tomato Sauce 

French Fried Potatoes Creamed Cabbage 

Pickled Peaches 

Chocolate Blanc Mange — Light Cream 

Golden Rule Coffee 



SUNDAY 

Breakfast 

Grapes 

Golden Rule Breakfast Cereal — Light Cream 

Kernelled Corn Fritters, — Bacon 

Golden Rule Coffee 

Dinner 

Clear Canned Soup 
Fricassee Chicken, seasoned with Golden Rule Celery Salt 

Mashed Potatoes Canned String Beans 

Cold Slaw with Pimentos, and Golden Rule Salad Dressing 

on Water Cress 

Caramel Ice Cream Little Cakes 

Golden Rule Coffee 

Supper 

Salmon Salad Little Rolls 

Lemon Tarts Golden Rule Cream and Chocolate 

19 



■co^rL-5rr^oriig; < s^fi i^^xuju^t 



WAR MENUS 
MONDAY 
Breakfast 

Canned Golden Rule Peaches or Fresh Peaches 

Corn Flakes Top Milk 

Boiled Eggs 

Toasted War Bread Butter or Oleomargarine 

Golden Rule Coffee 

Luncheon 

Cottage Cheese Salad Mayonnaise 

Barley Bread Butter or Oleomargarine 

Spice Cake made with Corn Flour 
Golden Rule Tea, Plot or Iced 

Dinner 

Spanish Beans 
Steamed Corn Bread with Golden Rule Raisins 
Butter or Oleomargarine 
Sliced Tomatoes on Lettuce French Dressing- 

Floating Island Golden Rule Tea or Coffee 

TUESDAY 
Breakfast 

Steamed Golden Rule Prunes 

Golden Rule Rolled Oats cooked in Milk Top Milk 

Barley Muffins Butter or Oleomargarine 

Golden Rule Coffee 

Luncheon 

Welsh Rarebit on Boiled Samp 

Oatmeal Bread Butter or Oleomargarine 

Corn Flour Shortcake with fresh or canned Golden Rule Berries 

Golden Rule Tea, Hot or Iced 

Dinner 

Chicken Fricassee 

Golden Rule Rice 

Browned Carrots Radishes 

Coffee Sponge Golden Rule Tea 

WEDNESDAY 
Breakfast 

Halves of Oranges 
Corn Flakes Top Milk 

Plain Omelet 
Golden Rule Coffee 

Luncheon 

Potato and Nut Croquettes (Baked) 

Nut or Tomato Sauce 

Dressed Lettuce 

20 



Oatmeal Bread Butter or Oleomargarine 

Baked Custards 

Golden Rule Tea, Hot or Iced 

Dinner 

Beef Fricandelles-Spaghetti 

Escalloped Tomatoes and Onions 

Cold Slaw 

Caramel Tapioca 

Golden Rule Tea or Coffee 



THURSDAY 

Breakfast 

Bananas with Lemon Juice 

Left-Over Meat Loaf 

Browned Corn Meal Mush 

Golden Rule Coffee 

Luncheon 

Lima Beans with Eggs 

Curried Rice 

Oatmeal Bread Butter or Oleomargarine 

Jellied Pears Golden Rule Marshmallow Whipped Cream 

Golden Rule Tea, Hot or Iced 

Dinner 

Tomato Bouillon 

Casserole of Tripe 

Ten Minute Cabbage Peas 

White Cornstarch Pudding with Fruit 

Golden Rule Tea or Coffee 



FRIDAY 

Breakfast 

Apples 

Golden Rule Rice Top Milk 

Corn Fritters 

Toasted War Bread Butter or Oleomargarine 

Golden Rule Coffee 

Luncheon 

Tuna Fish Cakes Milk Sauce 

Buckwheat Biscuit 

Butter or Oleomargarine 

Berries or Sliced Oranges 

Golden Rule Tea, Hot or Iced 

21 



C^Ca^ TlL^r^^'r^ c X^fJ T^?TZJ7I2=4l 



Dinner 

Spiced Haddock 

Fresh or Canned Spinach 

Green Tomato Pickle or Fresh Tomatoes 

Cottage Pudding made with Corn Flour 

Chocolate Sauce 

('.olden Rule Tea or Coffee 

SATURDAY 

Breakfast 

Grape Fruit or Grapes 

Shirred Eggs 

Corn Meal Griddle Cakes Melted Jelly 

Golden Rule Coffee 

Luncheon 

Peanut Puree Toasted War Bread 

Celery 
Warm Gingerbread (Made with Corn Flour) 
Golden Rule Tea, Hot or Iced 

Dinner 

Oven Fried Liver 

Creamed Onions Baked Potatoes 

Dressed Cabbage and Apples 

Lemon Gelatine with Soft Custard 

Golden Rule Tea or Coffee 

SUNDAY 

Breakfast 

Stewed Golden Rule Prunes 

Golden Rule Rolled Oats Top Milk 

Codfish Cakes Milk Sauce 

Dry Muffins Butter or Oleomargarine 

Golden Rule Coffee 

Dinner 

Casserole of Mutton 

Mashed Potatoes Diced Turnips 

Tomato Jelly Salad Boiled' Salad Dressing 

Apricot Ice 

Golden Rule Tea or Coffee 

Supper 

Egg Salad Sandwiches (With War Bread) 

Plain Layer Cake (Made with equal part Barley and Corn Flour) 

Baked Apples Golden Rule Cream and Chocolate 

22 



C^Co^ TT-JrTp^r^ T^l tjc^tuju^i 



General Rules for Measuring 



TO insure uniformity in cooking, it is necessary to adopt a scale of ac- 
curate measurements. Some people, through good judgment and 
long experience, are ahle to measure "by guess" and attain good 
results ; but these are not always the same, and days occur when they 
say they have "bad luck." This usually can be traced to inaccuracy in 
measuring, for, given pure materials of high standard, such as the Golden 
Rule products, a good recipe and exact measuring, any woman should 
be able to cook consistently well. 

Two half pint cups should be secured, one of glass, the other of tin. 
These are marked in divisions of thirds and quarters. Teaspoons and 
tablespoons are also needed, or a group of triple spoons holding each a 




Utensils for Measuring 

teaspoon, a half teaspoon, and quarter teaspoon may be purchased. A 
quart cup for measuring large quantities will complete the equipment. 
To measure a cupful of any dry ingredient, fill it full and level off the top 
with a knife, taking care not to pack it in. A spoonful is measured in the 
same way — it should never be "rounded" unless specified. To measure 
half an ordinary teaspoonful, fill the spoon level, scraping it off, and then 
divide it into halves lengthwise. Flour, confectioner's sugar, baking 
soda and any other ingredient which is liable to lump, should be sifted 
before measuring, while mustard, baking powder, etc., which settles from 
standing in the can, should be stirred to lighten. 

A cupful or spoonful of any liquid is as much as the utensil will 
hold without running over. All fats, as butter, lard, drippings, etc., are 
packed down and leveled before measuring. When they are to be melted, 
it is specified in the recipe. Sixteen tablespoons, level, of anything, will 
fill a half pint cup. In preparing a portion of a recipe, this will be found 
of great assistance. 



23 



MEMORANDA 



224 



caF^Co^TT-^y-p^ r-eB/ a^T T§^>T2J7n==4Tm? 



Beginnings of Various Meals 



FIRST impressions are lasting, and the appearance of a table, when 
the guests come into the dining-room, and the first course is in 
position, has much to do with the success of the luncheon or din- 
ner, as the case may be. 

Various foods may be used as the first course of a meal. Soup is 
always good form, but the up-to-date hostess, who likes to be a little 
unusual, commences a meal with a tid-bit, continental style. These 
may be served in different forms. For luncheons, the year round, and 
for warm weather dinners, fruit cups may always be used, and may be 
made of fresh or canned fruits in various combinations with surprising 
seasonings of Golden Rule Candied Ginger, Cocktail Cherries, etc. If 
fish is not to figure later in the menu, it is always permissible to open 
a meal with a fish cocktail. These are most commonly made of raw 
oysters or little neck clams, and may be served either with or in a 
sauce containing tomato ketchup, Golden Rule Worcestershire Sauce, 
kitchen bouquet, currie powder, etc. However, flakes of canned tuna 
fish, salmon or lobster are often substituted for the raw fish. 

If a meal is to be very formal, and the hostess wishes to be unusual, 
canapes offer a distinct chance for individuality, and are, at the same 
time, easy to make. Fundamentally, they consist of small, prettily 
shaped slices of bread, browned in deep fat, spread with various mix- 
tures which are highly seasoned, such as canned salmon minced fine, 
and mixed with Golden Rule Salad Dressing, and attractively garnished 
with bits of parsley, hard cooked egg, cream cheese balls, or Golden 
Rule Olives, or strips of Golden Rule Pimento. 

Hors d'ouevres, or relishes, are served throughout the meal, up to 
the dessert course, and may include Golden Rule Olives, pickles, chow 
chow, pickled fruits, radishes and celery, as well as more elaborate mor- 
sels made at home. A few recipes for these hors d'oeuvres are included 
in the following list : 

OYSTER COCKTAIL 

Allow six small oysters to each cocktail and pour over a sauce made 
of Yz tablespoon tomato ketchup, y 2 tablespoon lemon juice, dash salt, 
dash each Golden Rule Cayenne Pepper and Celery Salt. 

CRAB FLAKE COCKTAIL 

For six cocktails allow 1 pint canned crabflakes. For the sauce, 
mix together 1 teaspoon salt, }4 teaspoon Golden Rule Pepper, 1 tea- 
spoon minced parsley, 4 drops Golden Rule Onion Extract, 1 teaspoon 
Golden Rule Olive Oil, 1 teaspoon Golden Rule Worcestershire Sauce, ^4 
teaspoon Golden Rule Mustard, 2]/ 2 tablespoons Golden Rule Vinegar, l / 2 
cup tomato ketchup. Combine with the flakes and chill. If desired, 

25 



C^S Co^ TZ-^F^ T^ ^T^T T^^TTJJU^I 



green peppers may be hollowed to form individual cups in which the 
sauce may be served, the oral, flakes being disposed around it on heart 
leaves of lettuce. 

GRAPE FRUIT AND PEACH CUP 

Six halves canned peaches (diced) 2 large grape fruit 
Granulated sugar 1 tablespoon lemon juice 

4 tablespoons minced cocktail cherries 

Prepare grape fruit and cut in small pieces. Sweeten to taste, add 
other ingredients and let stand in a cold place to chill. Serve in glass 
cups set on doily-covered plates, and garnish each portion with an extra 
cherry. 

GOLDEN RULE FRUIT CUP 

Prepare a cup each of diced canned pears, apricots and pineapple. 
Add two tablespoons lemon juice, and a dash of Golden Rule Nutmeg, 
and let stand an hour to chill. Serve with a thin sprinkling of Golden 
Rule Cocoanut, and a garnish of bits of Golden Rule Glace Cherries. 



TOMATO CANAPES 

Six round slices bread 6 thin slices raw tomato 

2 tablespoons Parmesan cheese Golden Rule Salad Dressing 
Salt Golden Rule Pepper 

Golden Rule Paprika Parsley sprigs 

1 hard cooked egg- 
Fry the bread, spread lightly with the cheese mixed with Golden 
Rule Salad Dressing, set over the slices of tomato rounds, which should 
Til, and sprinkle them with salt, pepper and paprika. Chop the egg- 
whites fine, sprinkle over these, and put the yolks through a sieve. Set 
a spoonful of this riced yolk in the center of each round, together with 
a "prig of parsley. 

PEANUT BUTTER CANAPES 

Brown rounds of bread in deep fat, and spread with equal parts of 
Golden Rule Peanut Butter and Golden Rule Salad Dressing, creamed 
together. Set on strips of Golden Rule Pimento to form the petals of a 
daisy, and put a bit of hard cooked egg yolk in to form a center. Put 
tiny cream cheese balls, dusted with Golden Rule Paprika, around the 
edge, and lay on a doily-covered plate with a garnish of parsley sprays. 



TUNA FISH CANAPES 

Pound a cup of tuna fish till a paste is formed. Add a teaspoon of 
Golden Rule Olive Oil, a half teaspoon of lemon juice (or substitute a 
tablespoon of Golden Rule Salad Dressing), a fourth teaspoon of Golden 
Rule Currie Powder, and a drop of Golden Rule Onion Extract; spread 
smoothly on the rounds of browned bread, put a border around the edge 
of capers, and set a radish rose in the center of each. 

26 



cci^co^ y^jrrp^r^ T^T TW^xum^zm? 



HORS D'OUEVRES 

Savory Cheese Balls 

Mix together 24 CU P °f cream or cottage cheese, 1/5 cup minced Golden 
Rule Stuffed Olives, y 2 cup chopped Golden Rule Walnuts, and a dash 
each of Golden Rule Celery Salt and Golden Rule Paprika. Salt may- 
be added to taste. Form into balls with butter paddles, chill and serve, 
as a relish, in a dish garnished with parsley, or as a salad, using three 
balls in a nest of heart leaves of lettuce, for each service, and passing 
Golden Rule Salad Dressing. 

Sardine Balls 

Remove bones, skin and tails from a can of sardines and pound the 
fish fine. Moisten with a little Golden Rule Salad Dressing, and add a 
dozen chopped stuffed olives. Let stand to become very cold and form 
into balls. If too wet, add a little cream cheese. Roll in finely minced 
parsley and place each ball on a saltine cracker which has been dusted 
with Parmesan cheese and toasted in the oven. 



Savory Prunes 

Remove the pits from as many Golden Rule Prunes as are desired. 
Fill the cavities with a mixture of equal parts of cream cheese, chopped 
Golden Rule Walnuts, and Golden Rule Preserved Ginger. Serve on a 
relish dish with a garnish of celery curls and water cress. Pass with 
the salad course. 




Crab Flake Cocktail 



21 



MEMORANDA 



28 



MEMORANDA 



C^?C^DIT = J = ES>rS; < 2?^fI 'm^TijJii^y^^ 



Soups of Various Kinds 



MANY do not appreciate the value of soups ; in fact, it has taken our 
foreign neighbors to show us the definite place that soups occupy 
in the daily menu. They are of many kinds, each having a specific 
place. Clear soups, like consomme, bouillons of either fish or meat, or 
vegetable soups with a clear meat stock foundation, are all suitable to 
serve at the beginning of a substantial luncheon or dinner. Unless a 
particularly fine soup is desired, it is usually possible to obtain all the 
broth that is needed from the stock pot. 

Beef ranks first in economy for stock making. The general pro- 
portions are equal parts of lean meat and cracked bone, with a high 
seasoning of vegetables, spices and herbs. A stock of this sort is suitable 
for all soups which are dark in color, but for light soups a chicken or 
veal stock is preferable. The following recipes show how both these 
stocks may be made. However, it is not always convenient to make 
stock, when Golden Rule Beef Extract may be substituted. The propor- 
tions are, — a teaspoon of extract to each cup of boiling water. 

BROWN SOUP STOCK 

Five pounds shin or shank of beef, 3 to 4 quarts cold water, 12 
Golden Rule Peppercorns, 6 Golden Rule Cloves, 1 small Golden Rule 
Bay Leaf, 1 teaspoon dried Golden Rule Summer Savory, l / 2 teaspoon 
Golden Rule Marjoram, 1 teaspoon Golden Rule Celery Seed, 1 table- 
spoon salt, y 2 cup each diced carrot, turnip and onion. Cut the meat 
from the bone and brown slightly in hot drippings. Add the bone, pour 
in the water and bring slowly to boiling-point, removing the scum as 
fast as it rises. Simmer for six hours, adding the vegetables and sea- 
sonings at the end of four and a half hours. Strain, cool, and clear if 
transparent stock is desired. 

WHITE SOUP STOCK 

Four pounds knuckle of veal, y 2 pound lean beef, 3 quarts cold 
water, 1 diced onion, J4 cup diced carrot, 1 teaspoon Golden Rule Celery 
Seed, l / 2 teaspoon Golden Rule Peppercorns, a bit of Golden Ride Bay 
Leaf, y 2 teaspoon Golden Rule Summer Savory, 2 Golden Rule Cloves, 
\y 2 teaspoons salt. Cut meat in small pieces, add to bone with vege- 
table :s, seasonings and water, and simmer for three hours. Strain, cool, 
and clear. 

To clear soup stocks, allow the white and shell of an egg to each 
quart of stock. Break the shell in bits, add to the egg which has been 
slightl) beaten, and turn into the stock, which should be cold. Bring 
rapidly to boiling point and boil five minutes. Strain through a double 
thickness of cheese cloth. 

30 



c^^co^ti-^t^t-^t^^j T5^>T3JJn=4i 



Cream soups are made in three ways, either of a stock and milk 
combination suitably seasoned; of a cooked vegetable and milk; or of 
stock, cooked vegetable and niilk. In any case, the general method 
is the same, the stewed vegetable being combined with a thickened 
sauce made of the milk, or milk and stock, after which it is strained 
or not, according to its place in the meal. In case the soup is to act as 
the main portion of a meal, it is not necessary to strain it as the vege- 
tables add bulk ; but if it is to serve as the first course, it should be 
strained. Cream soups are correctly used at luncheon or supper, though 
if the meat for dinner is scant, a cream soup may be used as a supple- 
ment. 

Chowders of all kinds are really cream soups, plus vegetables, etc. 
Because they are so substantial, they should always serve as the main 
portion of a meal. 

Dried vegetable soups are really meat substitutes because the dried 
vegetables or legumes, which form the base, have food value equal 
to meat. Besides this, they are often reinforced by milk, which adds to 
their nutritive value, and at other times, they are cooked with a little 
fat meat, or in a meat stock, which almost doubles their nutriment. 
However, they should always be soaked over night before using, drained 
and washed, then cooked with a little Golden Rule Soda to overcome 
their tendencies towards causing indigestion. 



TOMATO BOUILLON 

Two cups boiling water 1 pint can tomatoes 

]/ 7 . teaspoon Golden Rule Onion % Golden Rule Bay Leaf 

Extract 4 cups boiling water 

3 tablespoons minced carrot 4 teaspoons Golden Rule Beef 
1 teaspoon salt Extract, or 1 quart beef stock 

J /& teaspoon Golden Rule Pepper 

34 teaspoon Golden Rule Worcestershire Sauce 

Combine the pint of boiling water with the bay leaf, carrot and 
tomato, and simmer uncovered twenty-five minutes. Add the extract to 
a quart of boiling water, turn into the tomato, add seasonings, and 
strain through cheese cloth. Add onion extract and serve. To get the 
best results Golden Rule Onion Extract should never be boiled. 



JULIENNE SOUP 

One quart clear brown soup stock, 4 tablespoons turnip strips 

or 4 cups boiling water and 4 tea- 3 tablespoons peas 

spoons Golden Rule Meat Extract 3 tablespoons string beans 

4 tablespoons carrots cut in \ l / 2 in. l / 2 teaspoon Golden Rule 
strips Onion Extract 

Cook carrots and turnips in a small amount of salted water till ten- 
der ; add peas and string beans and simmer for ten minutes longer, 
then turn into the stock, season as needed with salt and Golden Rule 
Pepper, and add the onion extract. 



TOMATO BISQUE 

1 pint can tomatoes 4 drops Golden Rnle Onion Extract 

2 teaspoons sugar 4 tablespoons flour 
1 i teaspoon Golden Rule Soda 1 teaspoon salt 

1 quart milk l /% teaspoon Golden Rnle Pepper 

2 tablespoons butter 

Scald milk, cook tomatoes with sugar fifteen minutes. Thicken milk 
with the flour and butter rubbed together, letting it boil up once, add 
soda to tomatoes, rub through a sieve, combine mixtures, add salt, pep- 
per and onion extract, and serve without reheating. 

CREAM OF PEA SOUP 

1 teaspoon sugar y 3 teaspoon Golden Rule Onion Ex- 

1 can peas tract 

1 pint water 1 teaspoon salt 

1 pint milk l /§ teaspoon Golden Rule Pepper 

2 tablespoons flour 2 tablespoons butter 

Drain peas from liquor, add sugar and water, and simmer twenty 
minutes. Rub through a sieve, add milk, reheat, and thicken with flour 
and butter creamed together. Season and add onion extract. 

CREAM OF POTATO SOUP 

3 large potatoes 2 teaspoons salt 

1 quart milk l /% teaspoon Golden Rule Pepper 

1 teaspoon Golden Rule Onion 2 tablespoons flour 

Extract 2 tablespoons butter or drippings 

Few grains Golden Rule Mace 
Boil potatoes, then drain and mash them. Add to the milk which 
should be scalded, together with the salt, pepper and mace. Cream the 
butter and flour and add to the soup, letting it boil up, and season with 
the onion extract. 

CREAM OF VEAL SOUP 

3 cups veal or chicken stock Salt and Golden Rule Pepper to 
V/ 2 cups rich milk or Golden Rule taste 

Evaporated Milk Few drops Golden Rule Onion 

4 tablespoons Golden Rule Tapioca Extract 

1 egg yolk 2 tablespoons flour 

2 tablespoons butter 
Soak tapioca ten minutes in water to cover, add to veal stock, and 
cook gently half an hour. Make a sauce of the butter, flour and milk, 
add to soup, season, and then pour onto a slightly beaten egg yolk ; re- 
heat, but do not boil, and add onion extract. 

CREAM OF CORN SOUP 

1 can kernelled corn 1 pint boiling water 

1 pint milk Few drops Golden Rule Onion 

Few grains Golden Rule Pepper Extract 

3 tablespoons flour 2 tablespoons butter 

low grains Golden Rule Mace \y 2 teaspoons salt 

l / 2 teaspoon sugar 
32 



Make a sauce of the milk thickened with the butter and flour rubbed 
together; add corn to water, and simmer twenty minutes, seasoning 
with the sugar, salt, pepper and mace. Add to the sauce, rub through a 
sieve, add the onion extract and serve with buttered toast. 

PEANUT PUREE 

1 quart milk y s teaspoon Golden Rule Onion Ex- 
1 cup Golden Rule Peanut Butter tract 

or pounded roasted peanuts % teaspoon Golden Rule Paprika 

Bit of Golden Rule Bay Leaf 2 tablespoons Golden Rule Corn- 



teaspoon salt starch 



Yi. teaspoon Golden Rule Celery 1 cup extra milk or Golden Rule 
Salt Evaporated Milk 

Yz teaspoon kitchen bouquet 

Cook peanut butter, milk, bay leaf, celery salt, salt and pepper for 
thirty minutes, preferably in a double boiler. Mix together cornstarch 
and add extra milk ; add to soup and cook for fifteen minuts over hot 
water. Add onion extract, and kitchen bouquet, and serve with hot toast. 

SALMON CHOWDER 

1 can salmon *4 teaspoon Golden Rule Onion Ex- 

2 tablespoons butter tract 

3 tablespoons flour 1 quart milk 

y 2 teaspoon salt \y 2 cups sliced potatoes 

yi teaspoon Golden Rule Pepper Butter crackers 

Turn salmon into a colander and scald, then remove bones and chop 
fish fine. Add two cups boiling water and the potatoes, and simmer 
about fifteen minutes ; turn in the milk, add salt and pepper, thicken with 
flour and butter worked together, add onion extract, and serve garnished 
with minced parsley and the crackers. 

WHITE KIDNEY BEAN CHOWDER 

1 cup Golden Rule White Kidney 1% teaspoons salt 

Beans 34 teaspoon Golden Rule Pepper 

34 teaspoon Golden Rule Soda 2 tablespoons bacon drippings 

1 can kernelled corn - Cracker crums 

1 cup canned tomato juice 2 quarts boiling water 

Soak beans over night. Drain, rinse and bring to boiling point with 
soda and cold water to cover. Drain and rinse again ; then add to boiling 
water and simmer slowly till beans are nearly done. Season, add toma- 
toes and corn, and when the beans are tender stir in cracker crums, or 
Golden Rule Breakfast Cereal, to thicken ; a half teaspoon of Golden 
Rule Onion Extract is a good addition. Water should be added from 
time to time to keep the amount of liquid constantly two quarts. 



33 



r^co^TT-jrrp^iB'i^fi t^a^jju^i 



MEMORANDA 



:;t 



MEMORANDA 



35 



r^ co^ rurp^ rm ?^ 5 ! t^^3J7U=^7~^ 



Cereal Foods 



THE general tendency of the times is to overlook the simpler foods, 
which, besides being very nutritious, are inexpensive. Prominent 
among these are cereals, which when properly prepared, may be 
ranked among our foremost food stuffs. The chief constituent of grains 
is starch, although they contain various other food elements. One of 
the reasons why cereals are not always well digested is because they 
are not usually thoroughly cooked. As they are so largely composed of 
starch, the cookery should be treated from a starch standpoint. No 
matter what the cereal, if it is to be cooked and served plain for break- 
fast, or prepared and combined with other foods, it must always be 
cooked for at least fifteen minutes over direct heat. This bursts the 
starch grains and the balance of the cookery may be done over hot water 
if desired. The easiest way to do this is to put the right amount of 
boiling water in a double-boiler top, add a teaspoonful of salt to each 
cup of cereal to be used, and when it is bubbling hard, stir in the cereal 
a little at a time, so slowly that it does not stop bubbling. The heat 
should then be reduced, and the cereal can be finished over hot water 
as stated. The time needed for the cookery of various cereals differs. 
The following table gives general proportions : 

TABLE FOR COOKING CEREALS 

Cereal. Quantity Water Time 

Golden Rule Rolled Oats 2 cups 3^ cups 1 hour 

Golden Rule Oatmeal 1 cup 4 cups 3 hours 

Golden Rule Hominy : 1 cup 4 cups 1 hour 

Golden Rule Rice 1 cup 3 cups 1 hour 

Golden Rule Breakfast Food Yx cup 4 cups y 2 hour 

Corn Meal 1 cup 4 cups 1 hour 

Although not served for breakfast, macaroni and spaghetti may be 
classified under the heading of cereals, and are invaluable adjuncts to 
the midday and evening meals. However, it must be kept in mind that 
when they arc used, potatoes should be omitted, for at no time should 
two starchy vegetables be used in one meal. 

GOLDEN RULE BREAKFAST FOOD WITH FRUIT 

1 cup Golden Rule Breakfast Food % cup Golden Rule Raisins 

1 teaspoon salt 3-\j cups boiling water 

Prepare the breakfast food as given in the introduction, adding the 
raisins when the cereal is set to cook over hot water. This is an espe- 
cially nourishing dish, and when it is served should form the major part 
of the breakfast; or it may be moulded individually, and served cold 
as a dessert with cream and sugar; or sliced, dipped in flour, dried, fried, 
and served with Golden Ride Imitation Maple Syrup. 

GOLDEN RULE OATMEAL WITH APPLES 

Select large apples and core them, leaving large cavities. Cook 
apples until tender in a syrup made of equal parts of sugar and water, 

36 



fill the cavities with oatmeal mush, and serve for breakfast or luncheon 
with cream and sugar. This is an especially good dish for convalescents 
and little children. 

GOLDEN RULE OATMEAL GRUEL 

% cup Golden Rule Oatmeal 4 cups boiling water 

J / 2 teaspoon salt 

Add oatmeal and salt to boiling water and cook fifteen minutes over 
direct heat ; then two and three-quarters hours in a double-boiler. 
Enough water should be added during this time to keep the quantity 
about three cups. Strain through a fine sieve. 

For modifying babies' milk, this may be used in the quantities 
ordered. For grown-ups a little hot milk may be added, or in case a 
stimulant is desired, a little sugar and port wine may be used instead of 
milk. 

GOLDEN RULE BOILED RICE 

Although rice may be steamed, it is more thoroughly cooked when 
boiled over direct heat. To do this, set a quart of water to boil with a 
teaspoon of salt and turn in a cup of Golden Rule Rice which has been 
well washed. Let cook gently for about thirty minutes, when most of 
the water will have been evaporated, and the grains will look as though 
they had turned inside out. Set over a very slow fire for the water to 
completely evaporate, and pour over two tablespoons of melted butter, 
when it is to be used as a vegetable. Plain boiled rice may be varied in 
many simple ways. The following are- a few suggestions: 

Curried Rice. Add to the plain boiled rice one-half teaspoon of 
Golden Rule Currie Powder, creamed with two tablespoons of butter. 
Stir lightly with a fork and serve very hot. 

Savory Rice. To plain boiled Golden Rule Rice add two minced 
Golden Rule Pimentos, % teaspoon Golden Rule Onion Extract, and 
Golden Rule Celery Salt to taste. Stir in two tablespoons melted but- 
ter and serve very hot. 

Italian Rice. To three cups of plain boiled rice, add two teaspoons 
Golden Rule Beef Extract, % teaspoon Golden Rule Onion Extract, 3 
tablespoons tomato ketchup, and y 2 cup Parmesan cheese, grated. Serve 
at once. 

Moulded Rice. Mould plain boiled rice individually, and serve with 
sliced canned peaches, and a heaping teaspoon of Golden Rule Marsh- 
mallow Creme. This is for a dessert. 

GOLDEN RULE HOMINY OMELET 

1 cup warm boiled Golden Rule ]/% teaspoon Golden Rule Pepper 

Hominy 1 teaspoon salt 

4 eggs 

Separate eggs, beat whites stiff, and the yolks till lemon colored ; 
add the salt and hominy to the egg yolks, fold into the beaten whites, 
turn into an omelet pan containing two tablespoons of melted butter or 
bacon fat and cook as usual. Before folding spread over a thick sauce 
made by stewing down a pint of canned tomatoes with two Golden Rule 
Cloves till reduced one-half, thickening with a tablespoon of Golden 
Rule Cornstarch wet with a little cold water, and seasoning with a half 
teaspoon Golden Rule Onion Salt. 

37 



c&^> ccn ruTp ) rest T^T Tj^>TLJJIL=jT~m 



SAVORY MUSH 

Prepare cornmeal mush as directed, seasoning it while cooking with 
a half teaspoon of Golden Rule Sage. Remove the rind from the desired 
amount of bacon, scald the slices and fry them till crisp. Drain from the 
fat and drop in the mush by spoonfuls, browning it on either side. 

ESCALLOPED MACARONI AND CHEESE 

All kinds of macaroni and spaghetti should be put to cook in plenty 
of vapidly boiling, salted water, being cooked as quickly as possible. 
When done it should be drained, but not rinsed, with cold water lest part 
of the food value be lost. Care must be taken not to overcook it, as this 
tends to toughen it. 
3 cups cooked Golden Rule Maca- -)4 cup Parmesan cheese, grated 

roni 1 tablespoon flour 

1 s teaspoon Golden Rule Pepper 1 teaspoon salt 

1 quart milk 

Mix the flour and seasonings with the macaroni. Put a layer of 
macaroni in a baking-dish, sprinkle with the cheese, and continue till 
the dish is full. Pour over the milk which should barely cover the maca- 
roni, strew the top with dry bread crums mixed with a little melted 
butter, and bake forty-live minutes in a moderate oven. 

SPAGHETTI ITALIAN 



3 cups Golden Rule Spaghetti 

(cooked) 
]:■ teaspoon Golden Rule Onion 

Kx tract 
2 tablespoons flour 
A teaspoon kitchen bouquet 



Few- grains Golden Rule Cayenne 

3 tablespoons Golden Rule Olive Oil 

Yz can mushrooms 

1^2 cups strained canned tomato 

1 teaspoon salt 

1 cup Parmesan cheese, grated 



Add mushrooms to the oil and fry for three minutes. Turn in the 
Hour and gradually the tomato; let boil, season, stir in the spaghetti, 
sprinkle over cheese and let stand to become very hot. 




Golden Rule Oatmeal with Apples and 
Marshmallow Whipped Cream 

38 



MEMORANDA 



39 



'n^c^rz-srr&^rmi^n TW^TUJU^nm? 



MEMORANDA 



40 



cgfs cco rLjrrp^ r^ T^i tw^tujul^t^ 



Quick Breads 



AS hot breads usually appear at breakfast, and are eaten when the 
digestive organs are greatly relaxed by rest, it is necessary that 
they be light and easily assimilated, or indigestion may cloud an 
otherwise successful day. Next to a good recipe, success depends upon 
the baking powder. There are many kinds on the market, those which 
are very cheap are alum powders, which after the baking process has 
been completed, leave a deposit of aluminum sulphate which is very 
injurious to the digestive system. A bit of alum puckers the tongue. 
It is an astringent. What thinking woman will serve an astringent, in 
the form of baking powder? Ammonia baking powders are equally 
injurious, in fact, in some states, they are prohibited from sale. In any 
case, no matter what the constituents, the ingredients of which the bak- 
ing powder is composed are printed on the can, and before making any 
purchase, the housewife should read the label. 

On a can of Golden Rule Baking Powder you will find these words : 

"CONTAINS NO ALUM NOR AMMONIA" 
"This Powder Contains Only the Most Wholesome and Purest In- 
gredients and None Other, as Follows: Pure Sodium Bicarbonate, Pure 
Starch, Pure Monocalcic Phosphate and Pure Cream of Tartar, Scien- 
tifically Prepared by Our Own Special Processes." 

Sodium bicarbonate is ordinary baking soda, which is so harmless 
that it is often used in a baby's milk. Monocalcic phosphate is one of 
the ingredients that helps to make bone, and cream of tartar' is one of 
the constituents of grapes — a list that can only contribute to finer and 
better health. 

Besides this, the baking powder gives the most satisfactory results, 
all articles, in which it figures, being of good texture and "just light 
enough," provided the right amount is used. All the recipes in this book 
which call for baking powder, have been especially worked out with 
Golden Rule Baking Powder. As it "goes farther" than most powders, 
great care should be taken to observe level measurements. All articles 
in which it is used are free from that bitter taste, so often left by in- 
ferior grades of powder. 

Muffins, with one or two exceptions, are mixed, so that the batter 
drops in spoonfuls. It is what is called a drop batter, and is consider- 
ably heavier than a cake mixture. The general proportions are a cup of 
liquid to two cups of flour and three teaspoons of baking powder. 

Baking powder biscuits usually demand half as much liquid as flour 
and from one and a half to two teaspoons of baking powder for each cup 
of flour, if a high biscuit is desired. 

Griddle cakes require about two-thirds as much liquid as flour, and 
a teaspoon of baking powder for each cup of flour. 

41 



BAKING POWDER BISCUIT 

2 cups Hour 2 tablespoons butter or lard 

Prom \| to a cup of milk, or milk 4 teaspoons Golden Rule Baking 
and water mixed Powder 

y 2 teaspoon salt 

Mix dry ingredients, work in shortening with finger tips and moisten 
with milk. Keep as dry as possible. Toss onto slightly floured board, 
pat to one-half inch thickness, shape with biscuit cutter, place on floured 
pan with edges scarcely touching and bake about fifteen minutes in a 
( I nick oven. 

LUNCHEON ROLLS 

2y 2 cups flour 4 tablespoons butter or half lard 

2 teaspoons sugar and half butter 

Zy 2 teaspoons Golden Rule Baking 1 egg 

Powder Y\ cup milk 

y 2 teaspoon salt 

Sift together dry ingredients, work in butter with finger tips, then 
add the egg, and milk, and pat to % inch in thickness on a floured board. 
Cut in rounds, brush each one with melted butter, and crease each round 
with a case knife. Fold over and bake fifteen minutes in a quick oven. 

OLD-FASHIONED SHORT CAKE 

2 cups flour 4 tablespoon butter 

y 2 teaspoon salt 4 teaspoons Golden Rule Baking 

3 teaspoon sugar Powder 

}i to a cup of milk 

Mix together dry ingredients, work in the butter and add milk 
gradually, stirring well. Keep as soft as can be handled. Toss on a 
floured board, pat, roll out and bake twelve minutes in a hot oven. 
When done, split and spread with butter and fill as desired. 

Stra wherries should be cut in halves and allowed to stand with sugar 
to taste, in a warm place, for half an hour. Oranges and peaches should 
be sliced and sugared, and allowed to stand in a cold place, and bananas 
should be sugared and slightly sprinkled with lemon juice. Serve with 
whipped cream made as follows : 

Golden Marshmallow Whipped Cream 

1 cup heavy cream 2 tablespoons Golden Rule Marsh- 

Golden Rule Flavoring as desired mallow Creme 

Beat until stiff enough to hold its shape. 

QUICK NUT BREAD 

3 cups entire wheat flour Zy 2 teaspoons Golden Rule Baking 

y 2 cup bread flour Powder 

1 teaspoon salt 1 cup chopped Golden Rule Walnut 

2 teaspoons sugar Meats 

iy 2 cups milk- 
Mix together the Hour, salt, baking powder, sugar and nut meats. 
Beat in the milk, turn into two well oiled small bread tins, and bake 
about forty-live minutes in a moderate oven. 



GRAHAM BREAD 

2 cups sour milk 3 cups graham meal 

% cup Barbados Molasses 1 egg 

y 2 teaspoon salt 2 teaspoons Golden Rule Baking 

1 cup entire wheat flour Soda 

Mix together the milk, molasses, salt, and the soda dissolved in a 
tablespoon of boiling water. Add egg and beat in the flour and meal. 
Bake in two small bread tins forty-five minutes in a moderate oven. 

CORN CAKE 

\y 2 cups bread flour 1 egg 

\y 2 teaspoons salt \ J / 2 cups milk 

1 tablespoon sugar 5 teaspoons Golden Rule Baking 

1^4 cups corn meal Powder 

1 tablespoon melted lard 
Mix dry ingredients, add egg, milk and lard ; then pour into two 
shallow pans and bake thirty minutes in a moderate oven. 

PLAIN FLOUR MUFFINS 

% cup milk 2 tablespoons butter 

34 teaspoon salt 2 tablespoons sugar 

2 cups flour 1 egg 

3 teaspoons Golden Rule Baking Powder 
Melt butter, add sugar and egg, then the flour mixed with baking 
powder and salt, alternately with the milk. Transfer to oiled muffin 
pans and bake twenty-five minutes in a moderate oven. 

NUT AND RAISIN MUFFINS 

To above recipe add a fourth cup of Golden Rule Raisins cut in 
halves, and a third cup of broken Golden Rule Walnut Meats. 

APPLE MUFFINS 

3 tablespoons butter £4 cup milk 

% cup sugar 2 cups flour 

34 teaspoon salt 3 teaspoons Golden Rule Baking 

1 egg Powder 

2 cups chopped apple 

Cream butter, add sugar gradually, then the egg well-beaten. Sift 
together dry ingredients and add apple. Add alternately with milk to 
muffin mixture, and bake twenty-five minutes 'in well-oiled gem pans in 
a moderate oven. 

QUICK OATMEAL MUFFINS 

2 cups bread flour 1 egg 

1 cup cold, cooked Golden Rule 2 tablespoons melted lard or drip- 
Oatmeal pings 

3 teaspoons Golden Rule Baking y 2 teaspoon salt 

Powder 2 tablespoons sugar 

1 cup milk 
Mix dry ingredients, work in oatmeal with finger tips, and gradually 
add the egg well-beaten, and the milk. Stir in the shortening and bake 
in well-oiled hot gem pans, for about thirty minutes in a quick oven. 

43 



RYE DROP FRITTERS 

% cup rye meal 2 l / 2 teaspoons Golden Rule Baking 

-.; cup bread flour Powder 

y 2 teaspoon salt 2 tablespoons Barbados Molasses 

1 egg J A cup milk 

Put together milk, molasses, and the egg well-beaten; add dry ingre- 
dients, beat thoroughly, and drop by small tablespoons into fat hot 
enough to brown a bit of bread in a minute and a half. 

SWEET MILK DOUGHNUTS 

24 cup sugar 4 teaspoons Golden Rule Baking 

2 eggs and 1 egg yolk Powder 

1 cup milk 54 teaspoon Golden Rule Cinnamon 
2y 2 tablespoons butter Flour to roll 

1 teaspoon salt 

Beat eggs, cream in sugar, and add milk. Mix cinnamon and baking 
powder with one cup of flour and beat into the first mixture. Turn in the 
butter, which should be melted, and add flour to roll — about four cups 
additional. Cover and let stand twenty minutes, then take out a little 
at a time, toss on floured board, knead slightly, roll to one-fourth inch 
thickness and cut into rings. Fry in fat hot enough to brown a bit of 
bread in a minute and a half. 

DATE MUFFINS 

1^4 cups entire wheat flour 3 tablespoons melted butter 

2 eggs % teaspoon salt 

1 cup milk 4 teaspoons Golden Rule ,Baking 
^4 cup dates quartered Powder 

Mix flour, salt, baking powder and dates. Put the milk and egg yolks 
in a bowl, beat in the flour mixture and the melted butter, then fold in 
the egg whites, beaten stiff and dry. Bake in oiled muffin tins for thirty 
minutes. Nice enough to serve with maple syrup for a luncheon dessert. 

BOSTON BROWN BREAD 

\y 2 cups graham meal 1 teaspoon Golden Rule Soda 

1 cup rye meal 2 cups sour milk 

2 l / 2 cups corn meal y 2 cup Barbados Molasses 

1 teaspoon salt 

Mix together sour milk and molasses, add soda dissolved in a little 
warm water, then beat in meal and salt. Pour into a well-oiled mould 
and steam for three hours. 

PLAIN WAFFLES 

\y 2 cups flour y A teaspoon salt 

2 teaspoons Golden Rule Baking 2 eggs 

Powder 1 cup light cream 

Mix together dry ingredients, add egg yolks well-beaten and mixed 
with the milk, and then fold in the egg whites beaten dry. Bake on a 
waffle iron as usual. 

44 



c<^c^rz-jrr^)'rm c x^fi T&3*TZJ7n=4'nm, 



CORN GRIDDLE CAKES 

1 cup kernelled corn % cup milk 

1 egg, beaten light 1 tablespoon melted butter 

y 2 teaspoon salt y 2 cup flour 

1 teaspoon Golden Rule Baking Powder 

Mix in order given and fry on a hot griddle. 

GOLDEN RULE SELF-RISING PANCAKE FLOURS 

No recipes for plain griddle cakes are given because it seems to me 
to be a waste of time and money to bother with home-mixed griddle 
cakes when reliable, prepared flours can be purchased at no extra cost, 
such as Golden Rule Pancake Flour and Golden Rule Buckwheat Com- 
pound, both of which are self-rising. They are each made of special 
combinations that make them more digestible than most pancake mix- 
tures, and as it is only necessary to add a cup and a fourth of cold milk 
or water to each heaping cup of Golden Rule Flour, they can be made 
ready in a few minutes. I am also particularly pleased with the sani- 
tary bag in which the flour is put up. 




Nut and Raisin Muffins 



45 



C^vCo^TT-Jr T^^T^ ^T^T TW^TZJjrt^iT 



MEMORANDA 



46 



MEMORANDA 



47 



cs^ cq^ tijtp^ r^, ?^ 5 ! T^t^/ryim 



Vegetables 



THERE is probably no department of cookery with which the average 
housewife is less acquainted than that dealing with the prepara- 
tion of vegetables, and because of this, there is no class of foods 
less appreciated by most people. 

Vegetables should always be put to cook in boiling water — never 
in cold, as the latter draws out the constituents which are most valuable, 
leaving the cooked product an almost flavorless mass of cellulose. Salt 
should always be added in the proportion of a teaspoonful to a quart 
of water. A little Golden Rule Raking Soda may be added in case the 
vegetable is old and tough, as this tends to soften the fibre. It may 
be stated as a general rule that all vegetables should be cooked in the 
smallest possible amount of water and that whenever it is feasible, this 
liquor should act as the basis of a sauce to be served with them. If 
possible, it is better to steam vegetables than to boil them, as by this 
means all the flavoring and food elements are retained. Vegetables 
like potatoes, carrots, parsnips, etc., should be thoroughly scrubbed and 
cooked with the skins on. In case it is more convenient to pare vege- 
tables before cooking, they should not be allowed to soak in cold water. 
This is only permissible if the vegetables are withered, and then the 
soaking should be done before they are peeled. 

Many women are afraid to use canned goods, but when it is realized 
that they have as great food value as fresh articles, and that standard 
goods, such as those sold by The Citizens' Wholesale Supply Co., are 
prepared and packed under more sanitary conditions than those of the 
average home, no woman need hesitate to use them whenever con- 
venient. Every woman owes it to her family to save her strength as 
much as possible, and the judicious use of canned goods certainly saves 
hours of labor. 

All canned goods should be emptied immediately from the can into 
enameled ware or earthenware dishes — never tin, in order to forestall 
any injurious chemical action. They should then be left exposed to the 
air for an hour or more to take up the oxygen which has been driven 
off during the canning process. Whole vegetables, like peas, string 
beans, asparagus, etc., should be drained from the liquor and set to 
cook in a little fresh boiling water. 

Probably one of the greatest solutions of the meat problem is the 
substituting of vegetables for main dishes at luncheon and supper. To 
be sure, they are not completely satisfying alone, but in combination 
with cheese, nuts, a few eggs, milk, and other meat substitutes, they 
are not only delicious but far more healthful than meat three times a 
day. The following twenty recipes are particularly adapted for use in 
this way. 

CORN PUDDING 

1 can kernelled corn Few grains Golden Rule Cayenne 

V/2 cups milk 1 teaspoon salt 

48 



3 tablespoons minced canned 2 eggs 

Golden Rule Pimentos 6 sausages 

\y 2 cups buttered bread crums 

Mix together corn, milk, pimentos, salt, cayenne and the eggs 
slightly beaten. Butter a baking-dish and put in a layer of the crums. 
Half fill the dish with the mixture, add a layer of crums and repeat, 
putting crums on top. Bake in a moderate oven till firm in the center 
and garnish with the sausages. 

CORN OYSTERS 

1 can kernelled corn z/ A teaspoon Golden Rule Soda 

2 eggs y 2 teaspoon salt 

l /& teaspoon Golden Rule Pepper Fine dried bread or cracker crums 

Mix ingredients in order given, adding crums to make a dough soft 
enough to drop from the top of a spoon onto a hot griddle. They should 
be fried like any griddle cake, turning only once. Serve with bacon. 

CORN CROQUETTES 

1 can kernelled corn 6 tablespoons pastry flour 

% teaspoon Golden Rule Onion 1 tablespoon minced Golden Rule 

Extract Pimentos 

1 teaspoon salt y 8 teaspoon Golden Rule Pepper 

4 tablespoons butter 

Combine the corn, pimentos, salt and pepper, heat to boiling-point 
and thicken with the flour and butter creamed together. Then add 
the onion extract, let chill and form into balls. Roll in crums, eggs 
slightly diluted with a little water, then in crums again, and fry to a 
golden color in fat hot enough to brown a bit of bread in forty seconds. 
Serve with tomato sauce. 

ESCALLOPED TOMATOES AND ONIONS 

Season a can of solid-packed tomatoes with two teaspoons sugar, a 
:easpoon salt, one-half teaspoon Golden Rule Currie Powder, and an 
eighth teaspoon Golden Rule Pepper. Butter a baking-dish, put in a 
ayer of the seasoned tomatoes/ then one of onions which have been 
stewed and chopped, continuing until the dish is filled. Cover with a 
ayer of cracker crums mixed with a little melted bacon fat, and bake an 
lour in a moderate oven. 

THICKENED TOMATOES 

1 can tomatoes 1 teaspoon salt 

2 teaspoons sugar % teaspoon Golden Rule Pepper 
2 tablespoons bacon fat J / 2 cup dried bread crums 

1 small can deviled ham 

Put together all ingredients except the ham, and stew for twenty- 
ive minutes. Prepare some toast, spread with the ham and pour over 
he thickened tomatoes. A little Golden Rule Onion Extract is a good 
iddition. 

49 



rc^c^ yr-jn-p^y-^ T^T T^^T^Jr^ ym ^f 



SPANISH OMELET 

2 tablespoons butter 2 tablespoons minced Golden Rule 

1 | teaspoon Golden Rule Onion Pimentos 

Extract 2 tablespoons flour 

1 cup stewed tomatoes 1 teaspoon salt 

's teaspoon Golden Rule Pepper 1 tablespoon chopped canned mu'sh- 

1 tablespoon capers rooms 

8 Golden Rule Olives 5 eggs 

Melt butter, add flour, and gradually the tomatoes. Let boil up 
once, add seasoning, the mushrooms, capers and olives, chopped, turn in 
the onion extract, and stir gradually onto the egg yolks beaten very 
light. Cut and fold in the egg whites whipped stiff, and turn into a 
frying-pan in which two tablespoons of butter have been melted. When 
the omelet is well raised, loosen edges with knife, and reduce the heat. 
When brown on the bottom, place in the oven for a minute, cut at right 
angles to the handle, and turn onto a platter. Garnish with parsley and 
extra olives. 

MEXICAN TOMATOES 

1 pint can tomatoes 1 pint can kernelled corn 

2 tablespoons butter 3 tablespoons chopped Golden Rule 

1 teaspoon sugar Pimentos 

]/ 2 teaspoon Golden Rule Onion Few grains Golden Rule Cayenne 
Kxtract Pepper 

34 teaspoon salt 

Melt butter, add pimentos and cook slowly five minutes. Turn in 
tomatoes and corn, add seasonings, and serve with bacon or salt pork 
fried crisp. 

CREAMED SPINACH WITH EGGS 

3 cups canned spinach 2 tablespoons butter 

2 tablespoons flour \]/ 2 cups milk 

Few grains Golden Rule Nutmeg l /% teaspoon Golden Rule Pepper 
]/ 2 teaspoon salt 6 eggs 

Make a white sauce of the butter, flour, milk and seasonings, add 
spinach, pour into a buttered baking-dish and slip on carefully six eggs. 
Place in oven and cook until eggs are set — about twelve minutes. 

RAVIOLI (From Italy) 

1 cup canned spinach y A teaspoon Golden Rule Onion 
y 2 cup canned chicken Extract 

2 tablespoons Parmesan cheese 1 teaspoon Golden Rule Poultry 
2 egg yolks Seasoning 

Dash Golden Rule Nutmeg y 2 teaspoon salt 

Pastry 

Mix together the spinach, chicken, egg yolks and seasonings. Roll 
pastry thin, cut into rounds, spread on "spinach mixture thin, place a 

■nd round on each, turnover style, drop into boiling water or soup 
stock for a few moments, serve on a bed of creamed canned asparagus, 
or spinach, or with a tomato sauce. 

50 



BROWNED MUSHROOMS ON TOAST 

2 cans mushrooms 3 drops any desired Golden Rule 

6 tablespoons butter Extract 

Dash Golden Rule Cayenne l / 2 teaspoon salt 

4 tablespoons thick cream Dash Golden Rule Nutmeg 

Buttered toast 

Separate stems from mushroom caps, chop former fine, add to the 
Hitter and brown slightly. Then add the other ingredients. Brown the 
:aps separately. Spread" the minced mushrooms on toast and garnish 
with the caps. 

HUNGARIAN BEETS 

1 can beets 1 tablespoon Golden Rule Pickling 

24 cup sliced onions Spice 

1 tablespoon sugar 1 pint Golden Rule Vinegar 

Heat spice, sugar and vinegar to boiling point, pour over the beets 
and onions, arrange alternately in a deep dish, cover, and let stand 
:wenty-four hours to season. To be used as a relish. 

LIMA BEANS WITH EGGS 

1 can green lima beans %. teaspoon Golden Rule Currie 

I tablespoons Golden Rule Corn- Powder 

starch ]/% teaspoon Golden Rule Pepper 

l / 2 teaspoon salt 1^2 cups milk 

4 hard-cooked eggs 

Make a sauce of the butter, cornstarch, seasonings, and milk, add 
the beans, let become very hot, and pour on a deep platter bordered with 
:urried rice. Strew the beans with eggs which should be chopped. 

STRING BEANS WITH BACON 

6 slices bacon 3 cups cooked string beans 

\y 2 cups milk 2 tablespoons flour 

Salt to taste l /% teaspoon Golden Rule Pepper 

Buttered toast 
Fry bacon, reserve two tablespoons of the fat in the pan, add the 
lour, and gradually the milk. Let boil up once, add the beans, cut in 
nch pieces, and the cooked bacon, also cut in bits. Season to taste, and 
serve on toast or with croquettes made of Golden Rule Rice. 

CURRIED POTATOES 

1 small onion sliced 1 teaspoon Golden Rule Currie 

6 cold boiled potatoes Powder 

4 tablespoons butter V/ 2 teaspoons salt 

1 tablespoon lemon juice 

Melt butter in frying pan, add onion and cook till yellow and soft. 
Cut potatoes in slices, sprinkle with salt and currie powder, and add to 
the onions. Shake until well mixed, cover, and cook slowly for ten 
minutes, then add the lemon juice, mix well, and serve with creamed 
chicken, creamed eggs, creamed veal, or creamed dried beef or with 

small sausages. 

51 



BROWNED PIMENTO POTATO 

3 cups mashed potatoes 2 Golden Rule Pimentos, chopped 

fine 

While still hot form into balls, brush over with slightly beaten egg 
and brown in a hot oven. Serve with creamed eggs, or bits of left-over 
roast beef, heated in a brown sauce, and seasoned with Golden Rule 
ingredients. 

POTATO AND NUT CROQUETTES 

3 cups mashed potatoes 3 drops Golden Rule Onion Ex- 
1 egg tract 

Dash Golden Rule Mace % cup chopped Golden Rule Wal- 
1 teaspoon minced parsley nuts 

Mix ingredients in order given, cool, shape into balls, roll in crums, 
eggs and crums again, and fry in deep fat, hot enough to brown a bit of 
bread in forty counts. Serve with nut, or tomato sauce, made of Golden 
Rule products. 

ASPARAGUS VINIGRETTE 

1 can asparagus r /> teaspoon salt 

1 teaspoon minced parsley y$ teaspoon Golden Rule Cayenne 
6 drops Golden Rule Onion Ex- 3 tablespoons Golden Rule Vinegar 

tract 6 tablespoons Golden Rule Olive Oil 

Dash Golden Rule Pepper 

Rinse asparagus thoroughly with cold water and drain well. Mix 
the other ingredients together till well blended, pour over the asparagus, 
and let stand thirty minutes in a cold place before serving. 

ASPARAGUS OMELET 

6 eggs 1 cup milk 

2 tablespoons flour 2 tablespoons butter 

1 teaspoon salt x /\ teaspoon Golden Rule Pepper 
Y\ cup asparagus in inch pieces Asparagus tips for garnishing 

Make a white sauce of the milk, flour, butter and seasonings. Add 
the cut asparagus. Separate the eggs, beat whites stiff, and the yolks till 
lemon colored ; stir the sauce into the yolks and fold the whole into the 
whites. Turn in a warm omelet pan containing two tablespoons melted 
butter, and cook gently till browned on the bottom. Finish in the oven, 
turn onto a heated platter, and garnish with the tips. 

ASPARAGUS LOAF 

2 tablespoons butter 4 tablespoons flour 

1 teaspoon salt 54 teaspoon Golden Rule Pepper 

1 cup milk 2 cups asparagus cut in bits 

y 2 cup minced canned chicken 4 eggs 

Make a sauce of the butter, flour and milk, allowing it to boil up 
once, then add chicken, seasonings, and asparagus, and pour onto the 
egg which should be well beaten. Pour into a buttered pan, surround 
with boiling water and cook till firm in the center, like a custard. Serve 
with extra creamed asparagus. 

52 



CANNED PEA CROUSTADES 

1 tablespoon butter 1 sprig dried mint 

1 can peas 1 cup milk 

% teaspoon salt Dash Golden Rule Pepper 

2 egg yolks y 2 cup minced lamb or ham 

Bread croustades or boxes 

Shape boxes of stale bread for individual service, and brown in deep 
at. Drain the peas, scald the milk with the mint. Remove mint, add 
utter, peas, seasonings and milk, and pour over the egg yolks which 
hould be slightly beaten. Stir over hot water till thickened, pour into 
he croustades, and serve as an entree to the dinner as as an accompani- 
lent to a small amount of cold meat. If desired, the peas may be pre- 
ared in the chafing dish, and served in the croustades which should be 
lready browned. 

■IVE RECIPES FOR THE USE OF DRIED VEGETABLES 

BOSTON BAKED BEANS 

y 2 pounds Golden Rule Navy y 2 teaspoon Golden Rule Soda 

Beans 1 tablespoon salt 

y 2 pounds fat salt pork, or y 2 2 tablespoons minced onion 

cup Golden Rule Olive Oil y 2 teaspoon Golden Rule Pepper 
teaspoon Golden Rule Mustard 4 tablespoons Barbados Molasses 
1 cup canned tomatoes 

Soak beans over night, then rinse, and parboil with the soda till 
arely tender ; rinse again, put in bean pot with the seasonings, and bury 
ork at the bottom, if it is used. Cover with boiling water, put on lid 
f bean pot and bake slowly for eight hours, renewing water as needed. 
luring the last hour, draw pork to surface to brown. 

LIMA BEANS AND TOMATO SAUCE 

pound dried lima beans y% teaspoon Golden Rule Soda 

tablespoons flour 2 tablespoons bacon fat 

l / 2 teaspoons salt y 2 teaspoon Golden Rule Onion Ex- 

cups canned tomatoes, strained tract 

Y% teaspoon Golden Rule Pepper 

Soak beans over night, then drain and parboil with the soda. Drain 
g^ain, add fresh boiling water, and simmer about an hour and a quarter 
11 tender but not broken. Then melt the bacon fat, add flour, and 
radually the tomato; let boil up once, season and pour over the beans. 
f there is any left-over ham or beef in the house, it can be minced and 
dded to this with good results. 

SPANISH BEANS 

pound Golden Rule Kidney Beans % teaspoon Golden Rule Soda 

cup canned tomatoes 2 teaspoons salt 

\ cup chopped salt pork, or 3 table- 34 teaspoon Golden Rule Pepper 

spoons Golden Rule Olive Oil 54 CU P chopped celery, or 1 tea- 
minced Golden Rule Pimentos spoon Golden Rule Celery Salt 

53 



CG^ca^ TT-jrrp^r^^ T^T tw^3J7H=j1 



Soak beans over night. Drain, rinse, add soda and parboil. Drain 
again, rinse, cover with boiling water, add other ingredients and simmer 
for five hours. If necessary, add more water. When done, season with 
( '.widen Rule ( )nion Extract. 

OLD-FASHIONED SUCCOTASH 

1 _. pound red kidney beans % teaspoon Golden Rule Onion 
1 can kernel led corn Extract 

1 teaspoons salt }& teaspoon Golden Rule Pepper 

34 pound salt pork 

Soak beans over night, drain, add a fourth teaspoon Golden Rule 
Baking Soda and water to cover, and cook until tender — about four 
hours — -together with salt pork. Then add the corn and seasonings and 
serve with hoe-cake or corn bread. 



BAKED WHITE BEAN PUREE 



\y 2 cups any meat chopped fine 
2 Golden Rule Cloves 
2 slices bacon cut in pieces 
2 teaspoons Golden Rule Beef Ex- 
tract 



y 2 pound Golden Rule Navy Beans 
y 2 cup canned tomatoes 
1 teaspoon minced parsley 
I'Yu drops Golden Rule Onion Ex- 
tract 

1 pint boiling water 

Boil beans as usual, then sift through a coarse colander. Add salt 
and Golden Rule Pepper to taste, and the meat. Fry the bacon, add the 
tomatoes, cloves and parsley and stir into the bean mixture. Add the 
extract dissolved in the water, pour into a buttered dish and bake till 
brown. 




Lima Beans with Eggs in Border 
of Curried Rice 



54 



MEMORANDA 



55 



MEMORANDA 



56 



CgS>Co^ TT_Jn~p^7"^7 t ?l^T c nr^T^7 rL_> ? 7-^B 7 



Meats and Fish 



ALTHOUGH vastly different in flavor, the chemical constituents of 
meat and fish are very similar, and the same general principles of 
cookery may be applied to both. Delicious flavor depends on con- 
serving all the natural juices. In boiling either, the water should be 
bubbling rapidly, when it is plunged in, so that the outside may be 
seared, or sealed at once to prevent the escape of food constituents. 
Fish should be wrapped in a cheese cloth as otherwise it is liable to 
fall to pieces. A half teaspoon of Golden Rule Pickling Spice and a 
dash of Golden Rule Onion Salt to the water in which the fish is cooking 
greatly improves the flavor. Golden Rule Spice, Golden Rule Celery 
Salt, a little Golden Rule Vinegar, or Golden Rule Onion Salt may be 
used with meat as desired. The water should never boil rapidly after 
the first minute, the kettle being set over a low heat so that it will 
merely simmer. 

In broiling, the wire rack should be slightly rubbed with beef suet 
or Golden Rule Olive Oil, and the fire be hot enough so that the meat 
or fish will be seared at once. Turning should be done every half min- 
ute for the first three or four minutes, in order to present the escape of 
juices. When nearly done, it should be sprinkled sparingly with salt 
and Golden Rule Pepper, or if an unusual flavor is desired, a little Golden 
Rule Chili Powder may be sprinkled over steak, or a little Golden Rule 
Worcestershire Sauce be dropped over the top when it is done; a dash 
of Golden Rule Onion Salt adds a good flavor. Fish may be sharpened 
by a little Golden Rule Chili Powder, or Golden Rule Celery Salt. 

The best method to use in frying meat or fish is that of deep fat. 
The articles should be rolled in fine dry bread crums or cracker dust, 
dipped in egg, slightly diluted with cold water, or in a tablespoon of 
Golden Rule Crystal Gelatine dissolved in a fourth cup of hot water and 
then cooled, and then in crums again. The egg or gelatine forms a 
coating which is cooked instantly when the article touches the fat, thus 
effectually preventing the escape of juices. When plunged in, the fat 
should be hot enough to brown a bit of bread in forty counts for cooked 
meat or fish, and a minute for raw. It is customary to serve various 
fried articles with a suitable sauce, such as Creole, tomato, Bechemal, 
mushroom, etc. 

In roasting, the oven should be hot enough to sear the meat or fish 
in the first ten minutes, after which the temperature may be reduced. 
In roasting meats, they may be dredged with flour, enough being strewn 
over the bottom of the pan to thicken the gravy. When this browns, 
a little hot water may be added to the pan and used to baste the roast. 
Fish, on the other hand, should not have the flour, but a few strips of 
salt pork or bacon should be laid over the top. and hot water containing 
a little bacon, fat, butter, or Golden Rule Olive Oil be used for basting. 

In substituting canned meats or fish for fresh, they should be turned 
out of the can and allowed to air for an hour ahd a half in order to 

57 



take up the oxygen, lost in canning, and to lose the canned taste. 
Canned fish should always" be turned into a colander and scalded so that 
the flakes will be separated and the excess oil be removed. 

As most housewives understand plain meat cookery, the majority of 
the following recipes are somewhat out of the usual run, many of them 
being suitable for luncheon and supper. 



MEATS 

CHILI CON CARNE 

2y> pounds round steak 2 teaspoons salt 

4 slices salt pork 1 minced clove garlic 

3 tablespoons flour lA teaspoon Golden Rule Onion Salt 

3 tablespoons Golden Rule Chili Powder 

Cut steak in small pieces and brown in the salt pork fat; add the 
flour and garlic, water to cover, and simmer for an hour ; then sprinkle 
on the Chili powder and salt, add more water if necessary and cook 
until perfectly tender, about an hour and a half longer. Then stir in the 
onion salt and serve with boiled Golden Rule Rice. 

BEEF FRICANDELLES 

1/^ pounds chopped beef 2 teaspoons Golden Rule Beef Ex- 
y 2 cup soft bread crums tract 

1 teaspoon salt 34 teaspoon Golden Rule Pepper 

2 tablespoons flour y 2 teaspoon Golden Rule Poultry 
2 cups boiling water Seasoning 

Grating lemon rind 

Dissolve extract in boiling water, add crums to one-half cup of 
the meat stock thus prepared, and let stand ten minutes. Then add to 
meat with all other ingredients, form into egg-shaped balls, roll in flour, 
and fry till slightly browned in beef drippings ; with the drippings re- 
maining in the frying pan, the meat stock and additional flour if neces- 
sary, make a thick gravy. Pour around the balls, which should be placed 
in an earthenware dish and baked thirty minutes. Serve with boiled 
Golden Rule Rice, or Golden Rule Spaghetti mixed with a little melted 
butter and Parmesan cheese. Suitable for luncheon, dinner or supper. 

PLANKED STEAK 

Half broil a thick porterhouse steak, then transfer to a plank well 
greased with Golden Rule Olive Oil. Arrange balls of hot mashed potato 
brushed over with slightly beaten egg, at intervals around the steak; 
bread croustades tilled with peas, some sauteed mushrooms, and halved 
tomatoes, stuffed with seasoned kernelled corn. Other vegetables may 
be used if desired. Place in a moderate oven and cook ten minutes 
longer until the potatoes are browned, and the steak is red throughout. 
Garnish with radish roses and sprigs of parsley, slip into the plank 
h"lder, or into :i napkin covered platter and serve with Golden Rule 
Worcestershire Sauce. Suitable for luncheon or dinner. 

58 



C^CQ^TL^T^^Hmjl^n TsC^uLZJO^I 



MEAT LOAF 

1 pound ground veal ' 3 teaspoon Golden Rule Onion 
y 2 pound ground pork Salt 

2 eggs Dash Golden Rule Sage 

y 2 cup bread crums y teaspoon Golden Rule Pepper 

1^2 teaspoons salt Few grains Golden Rule Mace 

Mix ingredients together, add a tablespoon of minced parsley it 
onvenient, and pack into an oiled baking-pan. Bake or steam for an 
our and a quarter and serve with brown sauce (seasoned with a little 
•olden Rule Worcestershire), or with tomato, mushroom, or Creole 
auce. If a sour flavor is liked, caper sauce may be used. 

BAKED VEAL CHOPS 

2 pounds veal chops Golden Rule Bay Leaf 
34 pound bacon Crums 

y 2 teaspoon Golden Rule Worcestershire Sauce 

Boil chops gently for five minutes in water containing the bay leaf 
nd a little sugar, drain thoroughly, brush with Golden Rule Olive Oil, 
prinkle with the Worcestershire, and salt, then with crums. Place 
small piece of bacon on each chop, bake in a hot oven until the bacon 
egins to crisp, then add a little water to the pan, and cook more slowly 
ill chops are tender, about thirty minutes. Serve with fried Golden 
Lule Hominy, and tomato or Creole sauce. 

LIVER TERRAPIN 

y 2 cups fried liver cut in cubes 1 cup boiling water 

4 teaspoon Golden Rule Poultry 1 teaspoon lemon juice 

Seasoning 1 hard cooked egg 

2 cup Golden Rule Chopped Olives 1 teaspoon parsley, minced 

i teaspoon Golden Rule Paprika % teaspoon salt 

^ teaspoon Golden Rule Mustard 2 tablespoons butter 

teaspoon Golden Rule Beef Ex- 1 tablespoon Golden Rule Corn- 
tract starch 

Dissolve extract in the boiling water; then make a sauce of butter, 
ornstarch, stock and seasonings; add olives, the egg chopped fine, and 
he liver, pour into ramekins, cover with buttered crums. and bake until 
Town. Suitable for luncheon or supper. 

CHICKEN LOAF 

3 cups minced chicken 1 teaspoon minced parsley 
1 cup soft bread crums 2 eggs 

y cup milk 2 tablespoons melted butter 

1 tablespoon salt % teaspoon Golden Rule Onion Salt 

' v teaspoon ''.olden Rule Pepper 

Let crums stand ten minutes in milk, add to chicken with egg 
oiks, seasonings, butter and parsley. Beat egg whites stiff, fold into 
hicken, turn into a well buttered baking-pan, and bake forty-five min- 
ites in a moderate oven. Serve with creamed peas, mushrooms or 
sparagus. 

59 



. Ca^ TT-JfTp^ r^ T^T T^^^UJTL^l 



CHICKEN A LA MERANGO 



1 large chicken 

3 tablespoons chicken fat 

1 tablespoon minced parsley 
1 tablespoon chopped carrot 
1 tablespoon chopped turnip 

1 cup quartered mushrooms 

2 cups boiling water 

4 tablespoons flour 



2 teaspoons Golden Rule Beef 

Extract 
1 | teaspoon Golden Rule Onion 

Extract 
' s teaspoon Golden Rule Pepper 
Few grains Golden Rule Cayenne 
1 teaspoon salt 



\y 2 cups canned tomato juice 

Other fowl may be used if desired. Boil till tender, take out bones, 
dip chicken in flour, and brown slightly. Arrange on buttered toast and 
surround with a sauce made of the remaining ingredients. To do this, 
add the carrot and turnip to the chicken fat, and cook slowly ten min- 
utes. Turn in the flour and then gradually add the tomato extract and 
dissolve in boiling water. Let boil, season, add parsley and mushrooms 
and let stand ten minutes in a warm place to thicken. 

STUFFING FOR ROAST CHICKEN 



4 cups bread crums 

y 2 cup minced ham 

1 tablespoon minced parsley 

\y 2 teaspoons salt 

1 egg 

4 tablespoons melted butter 



1 teaspoon Golden Rule Summer 

Savory 
1 teaspoon Golden Rule Marjoram 
y 2 teaspoon Golden Rule Onion Salt 
y± teaspoon Golden Rule Pepper 
Grating Golden Rule Mace 



Put together in order given and moisten with hot milk. 

INEXPENSIVE CHICKEN DRESSING 

4 cups bread crums 2 teaspoons Golden Rule Poultry 

y 2 teaspoon salt Seasoning 

2 tablespoons melted butter or y 2 teaspoon Golden Rule Onion Salt 
drippings . y teaspoon Golden Rule Pepper 

Put ingredients together in order given and moisten with hot 
water or milk. 

OYSTER DRESSING 

Add a half pint of washed and chopped oysters to above dressing. 




Chicken Loaf with Canned Peas 

60 



CURRIED MUTTON 

Secure a fore quarter of mutton, and cut the meat from the bones 
n cubes. There should be from three to four cups. Place in a kettle, 
idd water to cover, together with teaspoon of Golden Rule Onion Salt, 
Dne-fourth teaspoon Golden Rule Summer Savory, one-half teaspoon 
Golden Rule Peppercorns, a sprig of parsley, and a half teaspoon of salt. 
When meat is tender, strain off liquor, remove fat from the top and 
:hicken the broth with two tablespoons of flour and two tablespoons of 
mtter rubbed together, one-half to one teaspoon of Golden Rule Currie 
Powder being added to the flour. 

Pour gravy over meat, reheat, and serve in a border of Golden Rule 
Boiled Rice, or with plain rice croquettes. This amount of currie is 
imple to season the meat, as Golden Rule Currie Powder "goes further" 
:han any other I have ever used. The bones from the fore quarter may 
De used to make soup. This is suitable for luncheon, dinner or supper. 

FISH 

SPICED HADDOCK 

2 pounds haddock or cod \y 2 teaspoons Golden Rule Beef 

6 tablespoons beef drippings Extract 

6 small onions l /$ cup Golden Rule Vinegar and 

% cup flour l /^ cup water mixed 

1 teaspoon salt l / 2 teaspoon sugar 

1 tablespoon lemon juice 1^ teaspoons Golden Rule Pick- 

1% cups boiling water ling Spice 

J /$ teaspoon Golden Rule Pepper 
Slice fish and onions and fry together in drippings till fish is 
Drowned. Dissolve extract in boiling water and add sugar to vinegar 
ind water. Sprinkle flour, seasonings, and spice over the fish, add stock 
md vinegar, and simmer thirty minutes. Add more seasoning if neces- 
sary and serve with escalloped Golden Rule Spaghetti or Macaroni. 

TUNA FISH CAKES 

2 cups hot mashed potato % teaspoon Golden Rule Onion 

1 teaspoon minced parsley Extract 

j4 teaspoon salt y& teaspoon Golden Rule Pepper 

1 cup flaked tuna fish Hot milk as needed 

Sliced bacon 

Mix together potato, seasonings and fish, and moisten with hot milk 
f necessary. Cool, form into balls, roll in flour, then in beaten egg 
liluted with a little cold water, or in a little Golden Rule Gelatine dis- 
solved in hot water and cooled. Then roll in fine dry crums. Cook in 
leep fat hot enough to brown a bit of bread in forty counts, garnish 
vith the bacon which should be cooked crisp, and serve with tomato 
;auce. Canned salmon may be substituted for the tuna fish. 

JAPANESE SHRIMPS 

! cans shrimp \ x / 2 cups milk 

I tablespoons butter 1 tablespoon Golden Rule Pimen- 

.3/2 tablespoons flour tos, chopped 

4 teaspoon Golden Rule Onion Salt Buttered crums 

61 



CQ^C~a-^ r^JrTp^r~^ T?^T T^^njJD^i 



Rinse shrimps and break in quarters; add pimentos to butter, cook 
three minutes, turn in Hour, and add milk gradually to make a white 
sauce. Season to taste, add shrimps, pour into a low baking-dish and 
cover with buttered crums. Bake, and serve with dressed lettuce. 

DEVILED SCALLOPS 

1 pint scallops \ J / 2 teaspoons Golden Rule Beef 

1 tablespoon lemon juice Extract 

4 tablespoons Hour ' teaspoon Golden Rule Wor- 

2 tablespoons bacon fat cestershire Sauce 

y 2 cup canned tomato soup J /> teaspoon Golden Rule Onion Salt 
teaspoon salt % teaspoon Golden Rule Pepper 

1 cup boiling water 3 tablespoons Parmesan cheese 

Scald and drain scallops, roll in Hour, and brown lightly. Melt 
bacon fat, add the flour, seasonings, tomato soup (sifted canned tomato 
may be substituted), and stock made of the meat extract and water. Add 
scallops and bake in an earthenware dish for twenty minutes. 

MOULDED SALMON 

2 cups cooked salmon 1 tablespoon Golden Rule Gelatine 

1 j teaspoon salt % teaspoon Golden Rule Mustard 

1 tablespoon sugar Few grains Golden Rule Chili Pow- 

1 tablespoon melted butter der 

% cup milk 3 tablespoons Golden Rule Vinegar 

1 e gg yolk 1 teaspoon minced parsley 

1 tablespoon flour 

-Make a boiled salad dressing of the egg yolk; butter, flour, sugar, 
seasonings, vinegar and milk. In the meantime flake the salmon tine, 
soak the gelatine in cold water to cover, then add to hot mixture to 
dissolve, stir in the salmon, and let stand to chill. Serve with a green 
salad. This is particularly good for a hot day luncheon or supper or for 
Sunday night supper. 

SALMON KLOPPS 

1 pint minced salmon 2 eggs 

1 teaspoon minced parsley y 2 teaspoon Golden Rule Celery Salt 

1 teaspoon lemon juice 3 drops Golden Rule Onion Extract 

Mix ingredients in the order given, adding the eggs unbeaten. Form 
into balls the size of a walnut and poach in water just at simmering 
point. When firm, remove to toast and serve with caper sauce. Suitable 
tor luncheon or supper, or for the chafing-dish. 

BROWN OYSTERS 

1 pint oysters y 2 teaspoon salt 

1 teaspoon minced parsley 2 tables]), ions minced carrot 

4 tablespoons butter 1 cup oyster liquor 

1 :; cup Hour Few grains Golden Rule Cayenne 

ip rich milk 3 drops Golden Rule Onion Ex- 

Buttered toast tract 

Few drops kitchen bouquet 
62 



>C^S>Co ^-L-irr^Q7~^i 7 c ?!^T TjQAX^EL^I 



To obtain the oyster liquor, steam the oysters over hot water and 
eserve the liquor. Fry the carrot and parsley till softened in the but- 
er, add flour, gradually the oyster liquor, and strain the mixture if 
:arrots are not liked. Add seasonings and oysters, and when very hot, 
urn in the cream which should be scalded; serve on buttered toast. 
Jse for luncheon, supper, or in the chafing-dish. 

OYSTER CHOPS 

1 cup steamed oysters Few grains Golden Rule Mace 

1 cup boiling water ^ teaspoon salt 

1 teaspoon Golden Rule Beef 1 teaspoon minced parsley 

Extract 1 tablespoon lemon juice 

1 cup minced chicken 4 tablespoons butter 

Few grains Golden Rule Cayenne 6 tablespoons flour 

Cut oysters in small pieces and mix with chicken. Make a sauce of 
he other ingredients, add oyster mixture, chill and form into chops. 
Dip in egg diluted with a little water, or in a tablespoon of Golden Rule 
ielatine dissolved in a little boiling water, cover thickly with well- 
mttered crums, and bake in a dripping pan till brown. If desired, 
hese can be fried in deep fat. Suitable for luncheon or supper; serve' 
vith cream or caper sauce. 

BUTTERED LOBSTER 

! cups lobster meat, canned or fresh y 2 teaspoon Golden Rule Paprika 
teaspoon Golden Rule Worcester- 1 teaspoon Golden Rule Vinegar 
shire Sauce 1 teaspoon minced parsley 

^ teaspoon Golden Rule Mustard J / 2 teaspoon salt 

Pointed rolls 
Put seasonings together in a sauce-pan, add butter and lobster, and 
rook gently till very hot. Serve in pointed rolls which have been hol- 
owed out, in pattie cases, bread croustades, or on toast. Suitable for 
uncheon, supper, or the chafing-dish. 

CREAMED CRAB MEAT 

! cups crab meat freed from shell J /$ teaspoon Golden Rule White 
! tablespoons butter Pepper 

', tablespoons flour Few drops Golden Rule Worcester- 

! cups milk shire Sauce 

4 teaspoon salt 2 tablespoons Golden Rule Pimen- 

teaspoon minced parsley tos, minced 

1 hard-cooked egg 
Make a sauce of the butter, flour, milk and seasonings. Add pars- 
ey, crab meat, pimentos, and the egg chopped fine. Let stand to be- 
:ome very hot, and serve on buttered toast. Suitable for luncheon, 
►upper, or the chafing-dish. 

SAVORY SAUCES 

It is a difficult matter to give definite recipes for the making of 
savory sauces which are suitable to serve with meats or fish because 
»o much depends on the seasoning. Any woman, who is blest with a 

63 



c^? cqdzLzJTB^ r^ < x?^fi tw^sujj n = j'nm? 

good imagination and is provident enough to supply herself with a gen- 
us selection of good seasonings can learn, with a little practice, to 
make excellent sauces. At first it may seem extravagant to buy special 
seasonings, but when one realizes that they will last many months and 
that dishes otherwise "flat" and unpalatable can be made delicious 
through their use, one can see that the cost is really not great. 

A bottle of Golden Rule Worcestershire Sauce, some Kitchen Bou- 
quet, a bottle of Golden Rule Mint Sauce, some Golden Rule Chili Pow- 
der Golden Rule Mace, Golden Rule Bay Leaves, some Golden Rule 
Pickling Spice, Golden Rule Herbs, a bottle of Golden Rule Currie Pow- 
der, some Golden Rule Celery and Onion Salt, and a bottle of Golden 
Rule Onion Extract, will work wonders when properly used. Often- 
times some dish needs a sauce which calls for a meat stock foundation 
and there is no broth in the house. In this case, Golden Rule Beef Ex- 
tract is indispensable, as well as for reinforcing stock that is lacking in 
flavor. A few drops of Kitchen Bouquet also add flavor and a warm 
brown color. 

BROWN SAUCE 

2 cups stock or 2 cups boiling water 2 tablespoons butter or drippings 
and 2 teaspoons Golden Rule y teaspoon Golden Rule Pepper 
Beef Extract 2 tablespoons flour 

^2 teaspoon salt 

Melt butter, stir in flour, let brown but not burn; add stock slowly, 
and boil five minutes. A few drops of Kitchen Bouquet are an addition. 

OLIVE SAUCE 

Add one-half cup sliced Golden Rule Olives to above recipe. 

CURRIE SAUCE 

Add one-half teaspoon currie powder to above recipe. 

MUSHROOM SAUCE 

Fry one-half cup quartered mushrooms with butter and follow the 
above recipe. 

CURRANT SAUCE FOR COLD OR HOT HAM 

y 2 cup tart jelly y 2 tablespoon Golden Rule Corn- 

y 2 cups boiling water starch 

*4 cup Golden Rule Currants 

Melt jelly in the water, add currants and cook five minutes. Then 
mix cornstarch with a little cold water. Add to mixture and boil up 
tin-roughly . Serve hot. 

CAPER SAUCE 

4 tablespoons butter y A teaspoon salt 

2 tablespoons flour y teaspoon Golden Rule Pepper 

1% cups boiling water y 3 cup capers 

Make a sauce of the butter, flour, seasoning and hot water, and 
add the capers. 

64 



gC^? CvDTLJT^) Tm^l^n 



,XUJTJ=4Tm? 



TOMATO SAUCE 



1 cup canned tomatoes 

1 teaspoon sugar 

l / 2 teaspoon salt 

4 tablespoons flour 

4 tablespoons butter or bacon fat 



1 cup boiling water 

4 Golden Rule Peppercorns 

1 teaspoon Golden Rule Beef 

Extract 
Bit Golden Rule Bay Leaf. 



Cook tomatoes with seasonings ten minutes, strain and add extract 
issolved in boiling water. Melt butter, add flour, and gradually the hot 
quid. 

CREOLE SAUCE 

To above recipe add two tablespoons minced Golden Rule Pimentos, 
ne-fourth teaspoon Golden Rule Onion Extract, and six sliced Golden 
^ule Olives. If convenient a few Golden Rule Mushrooms mav be 
dded. 

MINT SAUCE 

A recipe for mint sauce is superfluous, when it is possible to buy 
sady-prepared such an excellent article as Golden Rule Mint Sauce. 
Vdien ordinary mint sauce is made, it is necessary to purchase a bunch 
f mint at five or ten cents, and besides this expense there is the bother 
f making it ; moreover, fresh mint cannot always be obtained ; but 
rolden Rule Mint Sauce is ready for immediate serving and is also 
dapted to many other uses, besides that with meat. A dash in French 
ressing, a little in lemonade, in fact, even ices can be made with it. 
f one desires to add a little green when using it as a sauce, a few minced 
arsley leaves may replace the usual fresh mint. 




Tuna Fish Cakes with Bacon 



65 



MEMORANDA 



66 



MEMORANDA 



67 



c-o^ yT-^yp^r^ T^r^T Ts^tX^rL^I 



Salads 



THERE are three classes of salads: Those which arc substantial 
enough to serve either as a main dish at luncheon or supper or to 
supplement an otherwise scanty meal; dinner salads, which should 
alwavs he made of vegetables and mixed with plain French dressing; 
and sweet salads, made of fruits, and mixed with a special dressing 
which can he used for luncheon or supper, or for dessert with coffee, 
crackers and cheese The usual dressing for a substantial salad, is 
boiled, or mayonnaise, and here it will not be amiss to speak of the 
Golden Rule Salad Dressing which comes ready made in bottles, and is 
admirably adapted to this use. It is deliciously seasoned and made of the 
purest ingredients, so no housewife need hesitate to use it, especially 
when it will save her time and strength. 

Dinner salads, which arc lighter in character, should he made with 
French dressing; that is, a combination of Golden Rule Olive Oil and 
Golden Rule Vinegar in correct proportions. This may be varied with 
different seasonings, such as Golden Rule Currie Powder, Golden Rule 
Celery and Onion Salts, Golden Rule Worcestershire Sauce, etc. 

Fruit or sweet salads are always mixed with French dressing, made 
with Golden Rule Olive Oil and lemon juice instead of vinegar. Mayon- 
naise dressing may be passed, or served as a garnish. 

Salad making is really an art, but one that is not difficult to master 
provided the best materials are used, and a few general principles are 
followed unfailingly. The ingredients, including the salad green, must 
he crisp and well dried. All articles, such as meat, fish, vegetables, etc., 
mu>t he cut in bits and not put through a food chopper. Care should 
be taken to have every ingredient very cold and to select the right 
dressing for each salad; or perhaps most important of all, a good oil 
must he used, for poor oil ax- ill spoil the best of salads. Many say they 
"do not like" olive oil. and yet they have never tasted the perfect 
product, ('.olden Rule Olive Oil is the best that can be obtained, and 
because it is good, is heavy, clear and of very delicate flavor. It is 
always fresh and so digestible that it can he given to the smallest child. 
In fact, my sturdy year-old son "licks the spoon" when he has his daily 
ration of one teaspoon i>\ ('.olden Ride Olive Oil, and his firm flesh and 
perfect digestion pa\ a tribute to this wonderful food. A salad is not 
an accessory, hut has a definite place in the dietary, and any woman 
who is interested in the making of pretty things will enjoy putting to- 
gether a salad. The garnishes are legion — Golden Rule Olives, stuffed, 
plain, or ripe; pickles cat in fanciful shapes, hard-cooked eggs, capers, 
and all kinds of fresh herbs; Golden Rule Cocoanut, Golden Rule Pre- 
served Ginger, Golden Rule ('dace Cherries. Golden Rule Crystallized 
Pineapple and Golden Rule Nuts offer a wide variety. 

68 



A GROUP OF VEGETABLE SALADS 

Golden Rule Salad Dressing may be used with any of these salads. 

DRESSED LETTUCE 

Arrange the lettuce, which should be crisp and dried, in a salad 
)o\vl; have at hand the vinegar and oil cruets, filled respectively with 
jolden Rule Vinegar and Golden Rule Olive Oil, also salt, Golden Rule 
r*epper and Golden Rule Cayenne. For six people, pour over three 
ablespoons of oil, sprinkle on seasonings to taste, and mix well, or 
'fatigue" with a salad fork and spoon, then sprinkle on a tablespoon of 
dnegar, mix thoroughly and serve at once. If desired, a few drops of 
jolden Rule Worcestershire Sauce, a few grains of Golden Rule Must- 
trd, or a dash of Golden Rule Onion Salt or Celery Salt may be added 
vith the seasonings. 

ASPARAGUS SALAD 

1 can asparagus tips *4 teaspoon Golden Rule Onion Salt 
French dressing Mayonnaise dressing 

2 Golden Rule Pimentos Lettuce 

Drain the asparagus tips, and pour over French dressing seasoned 
vith the onion salt. Let stand twenty minutes to season in a cold place, 
rrange individual services on lettuce leaves, and garnish each with 
trips of pimento. Pass mayonnaise dressing. 

DRESSED CABBAGE AND APPLES 

cups finely shaved cabbage Few grains Golden Rule Paprika 

cup chopped tart apple 3 tablespoons Golden Rule Olive Oil 

ew grains salt 2 teaspoons Golden Rule Mint Sauce 

y 2 tablespoon Golden Rule Vinegar 
Let cabbage stand to crisp in cold water, drain and dry on a towel ; 
dd apple and other ingredients. Toss together till thoroughly mixed 
nd serve sprinkled with finely minced parsley. 

LIMA BEAN SALAD 

: =si 
2 cups canned lima beans % teaspoon Golden Rule Onion Salt 

Boiled oil salad dressing 2 tablespoons Golden Rule Pimen- 

Lettuce tos, minced 

Mix vegetables together thoroughly, and add dressing to moisten, 
.rrange on lettuce, and garnish with additional strips of pimento. To 
lake the dish more "hearty" add three-fourths cup Golden Rule Walnut 
leats broken into bits. 

GREEN PEA AND STRING BEAN SALAD 

1 can peas Golden Rule Salad Dressing 

y 2 can string beans Dash Golden Rule Celery Salt 

Water cress French dressing 

Add French dressing to the peas and beans separately and let stand 
.venty minutes to chill. Dust with celery salt, arrange on a bed of cress, 
le peas in the center, the beans at the end, and pass Golden Rule Salad 
ressing. 

69 



VEGETABLE MACEDOINE SALAD 

cup diced beets teaspoon Golden Rule Worcester- 

1 cup diced string beans shire Sauce 

1 j cup diced cooked carrots j . } teaspoon Golden Rule Onion Salt 

' 2 cup diced celery 5 tablespoons Golden Rule Olive Oil 

1 cup peas 2 tablespoons Golden Rule Vinegar 

: 2 cup diced asparagus y 2 teaspoon salt 

l /i teaspoon Golden Rule Currie % teaspoon Golden Rule Pepper 
Powder Lettuce or cress 

Mix diced vegetables together in salad bowl. Dissolve salt, pepper, 
Worcestershire Sauce, onion salt and currie powder in oil and pour over 
vegetables. Toss till glistening, then dress with vinegar. Let stand 
twenty minutes to season and serve on a bed of green. 

CUCUMBER JELLY SALAD 

2 cucumbers, peeled and sliced 1*4 tablespoons Golden Rule Gela- 
Y$ teaspoon salt tine 

1 teaspoon sugar 54 teaspoon Golden Rule Onion Salt 
Mayonnaise dressing Dash Golden Rule White Pepper 

2 cups cold water Golden Rule Green Vegetable Col- 
1 cucumber cut in cubes oring 

2 tablespoons Golden Rule Vinegar 
Dissolve gelatine in two tablespoons cold water; simmer the first 
two cucumbers mentioned in the two cups of cold water for twenty min- 
utes, then add seasonings, gelatine and strain. Color to desired shade of 
green and let partly set, till consistent like an egg white, then stir in 
the diced cucumbers and pour into cold individual moulds wet with cold 
water. Let stiffen and serve upon lettuce with a garnish of mayonnaise. 

TOMATO JELLY SALAD 

1 pint canned tomato juice 1 tablespoon Golden Rule Vinegar 

teaspoon salt 1% tablespoons Golden Rule Gela- 

1 i teaspoon Golden Rule Onion Salt tine 

Bit Golden Rule Bay Leaf T 4 teaspoon Golden Rule Celery Salt 

1 Golden Rule Clove Few grains Golden Rule Paprika 

Any salad green 
S<m1< gelatine in two tablespoons cold water, put together all other 
ingredients and simmer ten minutes, then add gelatine, stirring till dis- 
solved and strain through cheese cloth into wet moulds. Serve plain on 
lettuce with mayonnaise or Golden Rule Salad Dressing or in combina- 
tion with shredded cabbage, diced celery, and Golden Rule Nuts, or with 
cubes of fresh cucumbers. 

FISH AND MEAT SALADS 

LOBSTER SALAD 

3 cups diced lobster Few grains Golden Rule White Pep- 

1 cup diced celery per 

aspoon salt Few grains Golden Rule Paprika 

Lettuce and mayonnaise 2 tablespoons Golden Rule Olive Oil 

1 tablespoon Golden Rule Vinegar 
70 



Mix together lobster, celery, oil and vinegar and then add mayon- 
laise to moisten; chill, arrange on lettuce leaves, and garnish with 
k)lden Rule Olives, or strips of Golden Rule Pimentos. If desired, a 
ew capers may be used. This same formula can be used for salmon, 
una fish, crab flake, or plain chicken salad. 

SARDINE SALAD 

30 sardines 2 tablespoons lemon juice 

1 cup shredded lettuce hearts 1 teaspoon Golden Rule Wor- 
Water cress cestershire Sauce 

Italian dressing 

Scald sardines and remove tails. Mix together lemon and Worce- 
tershire sauce and pour over sardines. Let stand to chill, then arrange 
idividually in star shape, place a spoonful of the lettuce mixed with the 
alad dressing in the center of each service, pour Italian dressing over 
he sardines, and garnish with cress or sprigs of parsley. 

SHRIMP RING SALAD 

■ 2 cans pickled shrimps Boiled oil dressing 

1 cup shredded cabbage ]/ 2 cup chopped stuffed Golden 
Lettuce Rule Olives 

French dressing 

Freshen the cabbage in cold water, dry thoroughly and add olives 

nd dressing to moisten. Shred the lettuce and arrange nests of it on 

idividual plates. Form a ring of the shrimps on each plate, pour over 

little French dressing and set a spoonful of the cabbage mixture in 

be center of each. Decorate with halved stuffed olives. 

LAMB SALAD WITH ASPARAGUS 

2 cups cold diced lamb l /% teaspoon Golden Rule Currie 

1 cup diced celery Powder 

24 cup diced asparagus 2 tablespoons Golden Rule Olive Oil 

2 hard-cooked eggs 1 tablespoon Golden Rule Vinegar 
Celery tips y 2 teaspoon salt 

}i teaspoon Golden Rule Mayonnaise or Golden Rule Salad 

Pepper Dressing to moisten 

Mix together lamb, celery, and asparagus ; add pepper, currie and 
lit to the olive oil and vinegar, beat well and turn onto salad. Moisten 
ith dressing, let stand to chill, arrange on a platter, garnish with sliced 
ard-cooked eggs and celery leaves. 

COLD VEAL AND GREEN PEAS SALAD 

2 cups cold diced veal 2 tablespoons Golden Rule Olive Oil 

1 cup canned peas 1 tablespoon Golden Rule Vinegar 

Vs teaspoon salt Currie dressing 

1 hard-cooked egg Lettuce 

Mix together veal, peas, salt, oil and vinegar, moisten with the cur- 
e dressing and let chill. Serve on a bed of lettuce leaves and garnish 
ith additional dressing and the hard-cooked egg chopped fine. 

71 



A GROUP OF FRUIT SALADS 
CURRANT AND BANANA SALAD 

1 bananas Few grains salt 

cup stewed Golden Rule Currants 1 tablespoon lemon juice 

2 tablespoons Golden Rule Olive Oil Lettuce 

4 tablespoons Golden Rule Cocoanut 

Cut bananas in thin crosswise slices, beat together the oil, salt and 
lemon juice and add to currants. Arrange bananas on lettuce, pour over 
the currant mixture, sprinkle with cocoanut, and serve at once. 

PEAR FRUIT SALAD 

6 halves canned pears Few drops Golden Rule Mint Sauce 

2 large oranges Lettuce 

Cream cheese French fruit dressing 

Let the pears stand in French dressing to chill, and at the same time 
the oranges cut in chips should stand in a little French dressing. Arrange 
the pear halves on plates containing a few lettuce leaves, set a spoonful 
of the orange chips beside each, and place three tiny cream cheese balls 
flavored with mint sauce in the hollow of each pear. Garnish with a bit 
of currant jelly. 

FRUIT JELLY SALAD 

1 cup diced oranges 2 tablespoons lemon juice 

]A cup diced celery 2 tablespoons Golden Rule Candied 
cup diced tart apple Ginger, chopped 

cup halved malaga grapes % tablespoon sugar 

1 cup boiling water }4 tablespoon Golden Rule Gelatine 

Make a gelatine mixture of the gelatine dissolved in two tablespoons 
cold water, the sugar, lemon juice, and boiling water. Add fruit and 
pour into chilled moulds to stiffen. Serve on heart leaves of lettuce. 
and garnish with mayonnaise dressing and shredded Golden Rule Glace 
Cherries. 

CANNED PEACH AND NUT SALAD 

Allow half a peach for each person; let stand thirty minutes to chill 
in a little French dressing, drain and fill centers with Golden Rule 
Chopped Figs, Dates, or Prunes, mixed with a little Golden Rule Marsh- 
mallow Creme and a few drops of lemon juice. Sprinkle with chopped 
Golden Rule Filberts, place in lettuce nests and serve. 

PINEAPPLE SALAD 

6 slices Hawaiian pineapple Cocktail cherries 

French fruit dressing Golden Rule Cocoanut 

Lettuce and cress Cream cheese 

Make six cream cheese balls, about the size oi a hickory nut, and 
roll them in cocoanut. Let the pineapple stand to chill in a French 
fruit dressing, cut the cherries in halves, arrange in a border on pine- 
apple, place a cream cheese ball in the center of each slice, arrange indi- 
vidually on a platter, and garnish with lettuce and cress. 

79 



PECAN NUT SALAD 

1 large grape fruit 3 tablespoons Golden Rule Glace 

2 slices Hawaiian pineapple Cherries 

1 orange ' 3 cup Golden Rule Pecan Nuts 

y cup shredded tart apple French fruit dressing 

Lettuce 
Cut sections from orange and grape fruit ; add apple and pineapple 
uts in bits, the cherries minced, and the French dressing. Let stand 
hirty minutes, then arrange on lettuce leaves, and sprinkle with the 
iecan nut meats broken in bits. Pass mayonnaise if desired. 

CHERRY AND NUT SALAD 

1 pint large canned cherries Mayonnaise 

Blanched filberts Lettuce 

Stone cherries and replace pits with nut meats. Arrange in nests 
>f lettuce leaves, and serve with mayonnaise. 

SALAD DRESSINGS 
FRENCH DRESSING 

The proper proportions of olive oil and vinegar for plain French 
Iressing are three parts of Golden Rule Oil to one part of Golden Rule 
/inegar, with salt and Golden Rule White Pepper to taste. This can be 
nixed in quantity, kept in a preserve jar, and stored in a cold place. 
3efore using each time, it should be shaken until emulsified. 

ITALIAN DRESSING 

Add a tablespoonful of tomato ketchup and an eighth teaspoon of 
jolden Rule Onion Salt to three tablespoons Golden Rule Olive Oil, and 
me tablespoon Golden Rule Vinegar. 

FRENCH FRUIT DRESSING 

I- tablespoons Golden Rule Olive 1 tablespoon grape fruit juice 
Oil 1 drop Golden Rule Pistachio Ex- 

l tablespoon lemon juice tract 

1 tablespoon orange juice Y /\ teaspoon salt 

]A teaspoon sugar 
Mix together and beat till emulsified. 

MAYONNAISE DRESSING 

2 egg yolks }& teaspoon Golden Rule Cayenne 

1 teaspoon powdered sugar % teaspoon Golden Rule Mustard 

}i teaspoon salt l z / 2 tablespoons Golden Rule Vinegar 

\y 2 tablespoons lemon juice \y> cups Golden Rule Olive Oil 

Mix dry ingredients, add egg yolks, beat until slightly thickened. 
ind gradually turn in vinegar and lemon juice. Use a Ladd or Dover egg 
jeater, and with it beat in the oil a teaspoon at a time. When thick 
the oil may be added a tablespoon at once, taking care to beat the mix- 
ture thoroughly after each addition of oil. When done, stir in a table- 
spoonful of boiling water. 

73 



c^^copxi = jTp^rs < s^fj tm^tuju^z 



BOILED OIL DRESSING 

y 2 teaspoon salt teaspoon Golden Rule Mustard 

1 tablespoon granulated sugar % teaspoon Golden Rule Pepper 

2 e°-°"s Va cu P Golden Rule Olive Oil 
U cup water H CU P Golden Rule Vinegar 

Mix dry ingredients thoroughly in double boiler top, then beat in 
egg and oil alternately, stirring till well mixed. Add vinegar diluted 
with the cold water, and cook over hot water till thick, like custard. 

BOILED SALAD DRESSING 



3 tablespoons pastry flour 

1 2 tablespoon salt 

1 egg or 2 egg yolks 

1*4 cups milk 

1 tablespoon sugar 



24 teaspoon Golden Rule Mustard 
}i teaspoon Golden Rule Onion Salt 
\ l / 2 tablespoons Golden Rule Olive 

Oil 
y 2 cup Golden Rule Vinegar 



Mix together dry ingredients, oil and egg, in double boiler top, add 
milk slowly so that it will not be lumpy, and cook over hot water until 
thick, stirring constantly. Then add the vinegar which should be heated, 
very slowly, and stir until thickened again. This will keep in a cool 
place for two weeks if closely covered. 

o 

Golden Rule Salad Blend may be used in any recipe calling for 
Olive Oil without changing the amount. This product is high class, 
and exceptional, contains no cottonseed oil, and insofar as food value, 
palatability, digestibility, etc., are concerned, is in every way equal to 
the highest quality Olive Oil. It has a delicious flavor, and is a thor- 
oughly clean, worthy product. As proof of that assertion we quote 
Mrs. Allen: 

"I am absolutely delighted with the new blended olive oil. 
It is the best that I have ever used, and I can truly say that 
for the first time since I stopped using the pure olive oil I 
enjoyed my salad last night when it was dressed with the new 
blend." 
We believe this covers the case fully. 



40 




Pineapple Salad 

74 



MEMORANDA 



75 



MEMORANDA 



76 



■caprL-^-p^ y-e^ T^r Tt^iTt-jj n-jTim 



Desserts 



THE choice of a dessert depends upon the character of the meal — if 
heavy, the dessert should be light ; and if light, the dessert should 
be heavy. For instance, mince pie would be out of place at the end 
of a hearty dinner, but is most acceptable at luncheon when the balance 
of the meal is not so heavy as dinner. Then, too, the season makes a 
difference in the selection ; in winter hot desserts are often more accept- 
able, while during the spring and summer months, cold dishes, such as 
chilled custards, fruit cups, cornstarch and tapioca pudding, and dishes 
made with gelatine, will be enjoyed. 

To this end, Golden Rule Crystal Gelatine may be used. There are 
many kinds of gelatine on the market, which are sold at a low price, but 
I know of none other, no matter what the price, that is so odorless, taste- 
less, absolutely pure, and as inexpensive as Golden Rule. Gelatine des- 
serts are very easy to make ; in fact, if it is kept in mind that one enve- 
lope of Golden Rule Gelatine is sufficient to stiffen a quart of liquid, it 
is an easy matter to work out many recipes from various odds and ends. 
For instance, there might be an orange, or lemon, and a little grape 
juice, in the pantry. These could be combined into a quart of well-sea- 
soned fruit drink and the gelatine soaked in water to cover for ten min- 
utes, and then melted over the teakettle, could be added. If desirable 
to add a little fresh or canned fruit or a few nuts, they may be stirred 
in when the gelatine has begun to stiffen slightly. A drop or two of 
Golden Rule Lemon Extract is a good addition to fruit jellies, while 
;offee jelly, or chocolate jelly should be flavored with a little Golden 
Rule Vanilla. 

As tapioca and cornstarch both belong to the same class of foods as 
cereals, they must be thoroughly cooked in order to be digestible, and 
at the same time to develop their flavor. If this is done, there is no 
reason why simple pudding made of these materials should not be given 
to invalids and little children, if they are made with Golden Rule ingre- 
dients, which are absolutely pure. 

COLD DESSERTS 
SPANISH CREAM 

2 l / 2 tablespoons Golden Rule 3 eggs 

Gelatine 24 cup sugar 

3 cups milk Dash salt 

y 2 teaspoon Golden Rule Vanilla 

Scald milk with gelatine ; beat egg yolks with the sugar and salt, 
pour into the milk and cook till thickened like a custard, stirring con- 
stantly. Add vanilla, and the egg whites beaten stiff, turn into a mould 
wet with cold water, and chill. Serve with cream. 

77 



C^?Co3XX = JTS}IS e 2?^fI T^l^TjyTTL^rm 



PLAIN BAVARIAN CREAM 

2 tablespoons Golden Rule Gela- 1 pint whipping cream 

tine 4 tablespoons Golden Rule Marsh- 

34 cup cold water mallow Creme 

Few grains salt 2 teaspoons Golden Rule Flavoring 

Soak the gelatine ten minutes and dissolve over hot water. Beat 
cream, marshmallow and flavoring together till stiff, add gelatine which 
should be slightly cooled, and pour into a mould wet with cold water. 

Raspberry Bavarian. To above recipe, add \ l / 2 teaspoons Golden 
Rule Raspberry Flavoring, and l /[ teaspoon Golden Rule Lemon Extract. 
Serve with canned raspberries. 

Chocolate Bavarian. Add \y 2 squares of melted Golden Rule Cho- 
colate to the hot gelatine in above recipe, flavor with a teaspoon of 
Golden Rule Vanilla Extract, and add a half cup of chopped Golden Rule 
Almonds, if convenient. 

Orange Bavarian. To above recipe add a teaspoon and a half of 
Golden Rule Orange Extract and a few drops of Golden Rule Lemon 
Extract. Color with Golden Rule Pure Vegetable Coloring and serve 
with a garnish of broken walnut meats. 

Note. If a fancy dessert is desired, the mould can be decorated 
with angelica, or Golden Rule Citron, Golden Rule Nuts, or Golden Rule 
Glace Cherries. These may be fastened in place by dipping in a little 
melted gelatine, and the cream should be put in gently so that the dec- 
oration will not be disturbed. 

COFFEE SPONGE 

2 tablespoons Golden Rule Gelatine x / 2 cup sugar 

2 cups strong Golden Rule Coffee Dash salt 

34 teaspoon Golden Rule Vanilla 2 egg whites 

Prepare a gelatine mixture of the gelatine, coffee, salt and sugar. 
When this is beginning to set, fold in the egg whites which should be 
beaten stiff, with the vanilla. Beat until cream-colored and let stiffen. 
Serve with soft custard or cream. 

WHITE CORNSTARCH PUDDING 

1 quart scalded milk r / 2 cup sugar 

l / 2 cup Golden Rule Cornstarch % teaspoon salt 

1 teaspoon Golden Rule Flavoring y 2 cup cold water 

2 egg whites 
Mix together cornstarch, sugar and salt and dilute with the cold 
water. Add to scalded milk, and cook thirty minutes in a double-boiler. 
Then pour slowly onto the egg whites beaten stiff, turn into a mould 
wet with cold water and chill. Serve with soft custard, or caramel, or 
chocolate sauce, or with any fresh or canned fruit. 

If desired, this may be colored pale pink with Golden Rule Pure 
Vegetable Red. 

Coffee Pudding. Scald 2y 2 tablespoons Golden Rule Coffee with 
milk in above recipe. Strain through a cheese cloth and proceed as 
directed. Add y 2 teaspoon Golden Rule Vanilla Flavoring and serve 

with cream. 

78 



c^coDO == *xs>rm c 2J^f3 TW^3J7n=4i 



CHOCOLATE COCOANUT PUDDING 

3 tablespoons Golden Rule Cream Dash salt 

and Chocolate 3 l / 2 cups boiling water 

y 2 cup Golden Rule Cornstarch z / 2 cup cold water 
y 2 cup Golden Rule Cocoanut 1 teaspoon Golden Rule Vanilla 

Pour boiling water onto the cream and chocolate, and place in a 
double-boiler. Add cornstarch and salt, mix with the cold water, and 
cook thirty minutes. If a very sweet dessert is desired, a third cup of 
sugar should also be added. Turn in the cocoanut and vanilla, and pour 
into a cold wet mould to chill. 

BANANA FLOATING ISLAND 

1 quart scalded milk 3 tablespoons Golden Rule 

2 eggs Cornstarch 

1 teaspoon Golden Rule Orange % teaspoon salt 
Extract 2 bananas 

y 2 cup sugar 

Mix together cornstarch, sugar and egg yolks, add scalded milk- 
slowly and cook, stirring constantly over hot water, until it coats the 
spoon. When cold add the orange, pour custard into a glass bowl, and 
beat the egg whites with a tablespoon of sugar, a bit of salt, and a few 
drops of Golden Rule Lemon Extract. Place by spoonfuls on the cus- 
tard, and strew over the bananas which should be sliced very thin. If 
desired, the bananas may be omitted, and thinly sliced peaches, or 
Golden Rule Cocoanut, substituted. 

TAPIOCA CREAM 

6 tablespoons Golden Rule Tapioca 6 tablespoons sugar 

3 cups scalded milk % teaspoon salt 

2 eggs 1 teaspoon Golden Rule Vanilla 

Soak tapioca one hour in water to cover, drain, add to milk, and 
cook till transparent in a double-boiler. Beat together sugar and egg 
yolks, add to tapioca, and cook till thickened. Then add the egg whites 
beaten stiff, and the salt. When cold, add the flavoring. 

HOT DESSERTS 
CARAMEL TAPIOCA 

24 cup Golden Rule Tapioca 1 quart boiling water 

% teaspoon salt 1 tablespoon butter 

1 teaspoon Golden Rule Vanilla 1 cup light brown sugar 

Soak the tapioca an hour in water to cover ; drain, add to water and 
cook half an hour. Then turn into a buttered pudding dish, add other 
ingredients and bake an hour and a half in a moderate oven. Serve 
with cream. 

COTTAGE PUDDING 

2 tablespoons butter 2y 2 cups flour 

1 cup sugar 1 teaspoon Golden Rule Flavoring 

1 Qgg 3 teaspoons Golden Rule Baking 

1 cup milk Powder 

34 teaspoon salt 

79 



Cream butter and beat in sugar and flavoring. Mix together flour 
and baking powder and add alternately with milk. Bake about forty- 
live minutes in a moderate oven. If to be served with a lemon or fruit 
sauce, Golden Rule Orange Kxtract should be used; if with a chocolate 
sauce, Golden Rule Vanilla will harmonize to better advantage. 

MOCHA PUDDING 

6 tablespoons butter 2 J / 2 teaspoons Golden Rule Bak- 
1 cup sugar ing Powder 

I ; i cups flour Y\ cup Golden Rule Walnut Meats 

cup strong Golden Rule Coffee 2 egg whites 

Cream butter, sugar and vanilla; mix together with flour, baking 
powder and nut meats, and add alternately with coffee to first mixture. 
Then fold in egg whites beaten stiff. Bake in two layers, put together 
with Golden Rule Marshmallow Creme, or coffee whipped cream, or 
serve with canned raspberries or peaches. 

CHOCOLATE ROLL PUDDING 

1 2 cup granulated sugar 1% teaspoons Golden Rule Baking 
1 egg and 1 egg yolk Powder 

]/ 2 cup flour \]/ 2 tablespoons boiling water 

yi teaspoon salt y 2 teaspoon Golden Rule Vanilla 

Beat the egg yolks and sugar till creamed, then add water and 
vanilla. Mix flour, salt and baking powder, and add alternately with 
^ZZ white beaten stiff. Bake in a thin sheet in a moderate oven, and 
when done turn onto a cloth wrung out of hot water, spread thickly 
with chocolate frosting or jam, roll up and serve with chocolate sauce. 

APPLE DUMPLINGS 

2 cups flour 3 teaspoons Golden Rule Baking 

2 tablespoons lard Powder 

y 2 teaspoon salt % to 1 cup milk 

3 teaspoons sugar \]/ 2 cups sliced apple 

y± teaspoon Golden Rule Nutmeg 

Make a baking powder biscuit mixture of the first six ingredients. 
Sprinkle the apple with the nutmeg, and sugar to sweeten. Roll the 
dough to one-fourth inch thickness, cut into five-inch squares, put two 
tablespoons of apple on each square, fold over the corners and shape 
into balls. Bake about thirty-five minutes in a moderate oven, and 
>er.\e with lemon or orange sauce. 

PLAIN BREAD PUDDING 

2 cups stale bread crums 1 teaspoon Golden Rule Vanilla 

1 quart scalded milk 2 eggs 

-.; cup sugar y A teaspoon salt 

Soak bread in milk half an hour, beat together salt, sugar, vanilla 
and eggs, add this to the milk mixture and pour into a buttered dish. 

80 



■co^ rL^Tp^r^ ^^^T T^^n^Jn^i 



lake an hour in a moderate oven, and serve with lemon, hard, or vanilla 
luce, or with canned fruit. 

Chocolate Bread Pudding. To above mixture, add two squares of 
lelted Golden Rule Chocolate. 

Fruit Bread Pudding. To above mixture add three-fourths cup 
rolden Rule Raisins, or three-fourths cup figs cut into bits, and substi- 
ute Golden Rule Lemon or Orange Flavoring for the vanilla. 

RICE MERINGUE 

3 cups scalded milk 1 egg and 1 egg yolk 

}i cups cooked Golden Rule Rice )/ 2 teaspoon Golden Rule Flavoring 
1 3 cup sugar 2 tablespoons powdered sugar 

teaspoon salt 

Blend rice and milk and scald. Beat egg yolk, sugar and salt to- 
other, and add to milk mixture. Cook till thick like custard, flavor, 
our into custard cups, cover with meringue, made of the powdered 
ugar and egg white, and brown in a moderate oven. 

CEREAL PUDDING 

1 cup cold Golden Rule Cereal 1 egg 

l / 2 teaspoon Golden Rule Vanilla y 2 cup sugar 

3 cups scalded milk Y\ teaspoon salt 

Scald milk, mix together egg, sugar, salt and cereal. Pour into a 
uttered baking dish, set in a pan of hot water and cook until set, or 
rm in the middle, in a moderate oven. Serve with chocolate, fruit, or 
ard sauce. 

STEAMED PUDDING 

cup Golden Rule Currants 1 teaspoon Golden Rule Lemon 
cup Golden Rule Raisins Extract 

i teaspoon Golden Rule Soda y 2 pound suet 

tablespoons Golden Rule Crystal- 2 eggs 

ized Ginger 3 T / 2 cups flour 

cup milk 1 teaspoon salt 

1 cup brown sugar 

Chop suet fine. Add to flour, soda, salt and fruit. Rub in the sugar 
nd work this into the milk and the eggs well beaten. Put in a but- 
ered pudding mould, cover and steam three hours. Serve with hard 
auce containing Golden Rule Crystallized Ginger. 

Rich Pudding. To make a rich pudding, omit the ginger and add 
wo tablespoons each of Golden Rule Candied Orange and Lemon Peel, 
nd a half cup of dates or figs cut in bits; a few Golden Rule Walnut 
/feats may also be added. If this is done, two teaspoons of Golden Rule 
'innamon, a teaspoon of Golden Rule Cloves, and a fourth teaspoon 
»f Golden Rule Nutmeg should also be used. Serve with Golden Rule 
/Tarshmallow Creme Sauce. 

81 



PUDDING SAUCES 

GOLDEN RULE MARSHMALLOW CREME SAUCE 

1 cup brown sugar y> cup Golden Rule Marshmallow 

54 cup boiling water Creme 

54 teaspoon Golden Rule Vanilla 
Simmer sugar and water till reduced one-half, then pour onto the 
Marshmallow Creme 3 add vanilla and serve at once. 

LEMON SAUCE 

l / 2 cup sugar 1 tablespoon Golden Rule Corn- 

1 cup boiling water starch 

1 tablespoon butter ]/ 2 teaspoon Golden Rule Lemon 

Grating Golden Rule Nutmeg Extract 

Mix sugar and cornstarch, add butter and water, and boil for five 
minutes, stirring constantly. Remove from heat and flavor. 

HARD SAUCE 

1 ; ; cup butter y teaspoon Golden Rule Tropical 

1 cup powdered sugar Fruit Extract 

Cream butter, and gradually add sugar and flavoring. 

CHOCOLATE SAUCE 

\ l / 2 cups boiling water \y 2 tablespoons Golden Rule Corn- 

y 2 cup sugar starch 

y 2 cup cold water \y 2 squares Golden Rule Chocolate, 

Dash salt grated 

y 2 teaspoon Golden Rule Vanilla 

Boil water and sugar five minutes. Mix chocolate with the corn- 
starch and cold water. Combine mixtures, add salt and boil three min- 
utes, then add flavoring. 

COFFEE WHIPPED CREAM 

1 cup heavy cream 2 tablespoons Golden Rule Marsh- 

1 teaspoon Golden Rule Mocha mallow Creme 

Extract Few-grains salt 

Mix ingredients and beat until stiff. For other flavors substitute 
extracts as desired. All flavors are found in the Golden Rule line with 
the exception of Banana, which cannot be made from the fruit. A very 
good Banana flavoring may be made by using 30 drops of Golden Rule 
Pineapple Extract, and 3 to 5 drops of Vanilla Flavoring. This makes 
almost a duplicate of the Banana Flavor. 

CANNED FRUIT DESSERTS 

FRUIT WHIPS 

To two egg whites add one cup of drained canned raspberries and 
one-third cup powdered sugar. Add a drop or two of Golden Rule 
Lemon Extract and whip until stiff. Serve at once with raspberry juice, 
soft custard or cream. 

82 



Peach Whip. Sift canned peaches and use in the same way. Apri- 
ls may also be used if desired. 

Strawberry Whip. Make in the same way, adding two drops each 
: Golden Rule Lemon and Orange Extracts. 

JELLIED PEARS 

1 can pears 10 drops Golden Rule Lemon 

Boiling water Extract 

1 orange 2>4 tablespoons Golden Rule 

^2 cup sugar Gelatine 

Add enough cold water to the juice drained from the pears and the 
range juice, to make a quart of liquid. Warm this slightly, add the 
igar and the gelatine which should be soaked in cold water to cover, 
id then melted over hot water. Arrange the pears in the bottom of a 
ranite ware baking-pan, pour over the liquid which should barely 
)ver, and when cold cut in squares for serving. Accompany with marsh- 
allow whipped cream. 

HAWAIIAN PINEAPPLE COMPOTE 

Form cold boiled Golden Rule Rice into thin rounds the size of a 
ineapple slice. Serve with a sauce made of a cup of the pineapple 
lice drained from the slices, one tablespoon Golden Rule Cornstarch, 
le tablespoon butter, two tablespoons sugar, and one-third teaspoon 
olden Rule Orange Extract. 

Peach Compote. Substitute canned peaches for the Hawaiian Pine- 
:>ple. 

FRUIT TAPIOCA 

> cup Golden Rule Tapioca 1 cup sugar 

{ / 2 cups boiling water 1 teaspoon Golden Rule Lemon Ex- 

> teaspoon salt tract 

cup canned peaches, apricots or Few drops Golden Rule Orange Ex- 
pineapple tract 

2 egg whites 

Soak the tapioca an hour in water to cover, then add to boiling 
ater with salt and cook till clear. Turn in sugar and extract, and fold 
i the egg whites which should be beaten stiff. Add the canned fruit 
hich should be cut in slices, chill, and serve with or without marshmal- 
>w whipped cream. 

FRENCH PEACH PIE 

Butter muffin tins thoroughly, and half fill with sliced canned 
eaches, adding a teaspoon of juice to each compartment. Make a cake 
atter of one tablespoon butter, one-half cup sugar, one-fourth cup milk, 
tie cup bread flour, one egg yolk, one teaspoon Golden Rule Baking 
owder, and a few grains Golden Rule Nutmeg. Drop a spoonful on 
ich pan, set in the oven and bake slowly for thirty minutes. Then 
lvert, and serve with lemon sauce, or Golden Rule Marshmallow 
/hipped Cream. 

83 



SWEET SHORTCAKE 

(For any fruit) 
1 quart flour 3 teaspoons Golden Rule Baking 

1 ; ; cup butter Powder 

1 cup sugar 2 eggs 

1 teaspoon salt to 1 cup milk 

(.'aimed fruit of any kind 
Mix dry ingredients together, rub in butter with the finger tips and 
add eggs beaten light and mixed with the milk. Spread in two layer 
cake-pans and bake in a moderate oven. Split, brush with melted but- 
ter, and spread on the fruit, making a.cake with four thicknesses. Serve 
with ('.olden Rule Marshmallow Whipped Cream. 

PINEAPPLE OMELET 

1 cup chopped Hawaiian pineapple }4 teaspoon Golden Rule Lemon 
1 tablespoon Golden Rule Corn- Extract 

starch 6 eggs 

Dash salt Powdered sugar 

Dissolve cornstarch and salt in the pineapple, and bring to boiling 
point. Separate eggs, heat yolks till lemon colored, and add to the pine- 
apple. Whip the whites stiff, fold gently into the pineapple, add lemon 
extract, and turn into a warm omelet pan containing one and one-halt 
tablespoons of melted butter. Cook gently till browned on the bottom, 
and finish in the oven. Turn as usual, sift powdered sugar thickly over 
it, and serve with or without extra shredded pineapple. This can be 
used as the main dish at a chafing-dish supper, or as a substantial des- 
sert, to supplement a scanty lunch. 

RASPBERRY CHARLOTTE RUSSE 

I vine sherbet glasses with lady fingers or strips of sponge cake. Half 
fill with canned raspberries, or logan berries, and finish with marsh- 
mallow whipped cream, flavored with Golden Rule Raspberry or Logan- 
berry Extract, and colored pink with Golden Rule Pure Vegetable Red. 

Cherry Charlotte. Make in the same way, substituting pitted 
canned cherries, and finish with marshmallow whipped cream flavored 
with Golden Rule Pistachio Extract. Garnish with Golden Rule Glace 
Cherries or cocktail cherries. 

Blackberry Charlotte. Substitute canned blackberries for the rasp- 
berries, and finish with marshmallow whipped cream flavored with 
Golden Ride Blackberry Extract, and a drop or two of Golden Rule 
Lemon Extract. Garnish with a few Golden Rule Nut Meats. 

Strawberry Charlotte. Substitute canned strawberries for rasp- 
berries, and finish with marshmallow whipped cream flavored with 
Golden Rule Strawberry Extract and a drop or two of Golden Rule 
Orange Extract. 

SPONGE FRUIT PUDDING 

Four cups soft bread crums mixed with four tablespoons melted 
butter. Pour over this as much cooked fruit and juice of any kind as it 
will take up, add one-half teaspoon Golden Rule Lemon, Orange, Rasp- 
berry, or Pineapple Extract, and let stand to swell and become very cold, 
unmould and serve with cream. 

si 



FROZEN DESSERTS 

No matter how perfect a recipe may be for a frozen dessert, a failure 
5 liable to result if the freezing is not properly done. All recipes men- 
ioned in this book are proportioned with the idea that the freezing- is 
o be done in three parts of ice to one part of salt, by measure. The 
rank should be turned slowly at first, then more rapidly until the des- 
ert is finished; if possible, the dasher should then be removed, the 
,'ater emptied from the tub and the cream packed in one-fifth as much 
alt as ice. 

For making very inexpensive cream, Golden Rule Ice Cream Tow- 
er may be used. This is perfectly pure and is especially manufactured 
o give body and smoothness to ice cream. Recipes for its use will be 
Diind on the can of powder. 

PLAIN ICE CREAM 

1 quart rich milk 2 teaspoons Golden Rule Vanilla 

1 cup sugar 1 cup cream or Golden Rule Evap- 

2 eggs orated Milk 

Few grains salt 1 tablespoon Golden Rule Cornstarch 

Make custard of the milk, egg yolks, sugar, cornstarch and salt, 
ool, pour in cream, and add flavoring. Freeze as directed above. Serve 
r ith cold chocolate sauce, containing Golden Rule Nuts, or Golden Rule 
'ocoanut, with canned peaches, raspberries, or with a garnish of marsh- 
lallow whipped cream and cocktail cherries. 

MARSHMALLOW ICE CREAM 

Add one cup of Golden Rule Marshmallow Creme to the above re- 
!pe and freeze as directed. This produces a fine texture and also in- 
reases the bulk. 

CHOCOLATE ICE CREAM 

cups of rich milk 2]/ 2 squares Golden Rule Chocolate 

cup cream or Golden Rule Evap- 1% cups sugar 

orated Milk % teaspoon salt 

eggs 2 teaspoons Golden Rule Vanilla 

Grate the chocolate, add it to the milk to scald, and after the choco- 
.te is melted, add the eggs, sugar and salt beaten together ; chill, add 
*eam and vanilla and freeze. Serve with a garnish of marshmallow 
hipped cream, shredded Golden Rule Glace Cherries, and Golden Rule 
ut Meats. 

APRICOT ICE CREAM 

1 quart thin cream Few grains salt 

1 cup sugar 1 pint sifted, canned apricots 

]/ 2 teaspoon each Golden Rule Orange and Lemon Extracts 

Scald cream and sugar together. When cool, add salt and flavor- 
ig, and freeze to a mush ; then open freezer, add sifted apricot pulp, 
id finish freezing. 

85 



>Co3rLJTp^HB c l^f3 *iM^3J7 12=41^ 



STUFFED PEACH ICE CREAM 

Fill the hollows of canned peaches with equal parts of raspberry 
jam and chopped Golden Rule Almonds. Put plain ice cream, flavored 
with Golden Rule Orange Extract in the bottom of sherbet cups, hol- 
lowing to admit the peach halve-. Add a little more ice cream, and finish 
with Golden Rule Marshmallow Whipped Cream flavored with Golden 
Rule Raspberry Extract, and garnish with Golden Rule Almonds 
shredded, and bits of citron and Golden Rule Glace Cherries. 

MINT ICE 

3 cups water Juice 3 lemons 

1 tablespoon Golden Rule Gelatine ]/ 2 cup sugar 

3 tablespoons Golden Rule Mint Golden Rule Green Vegetable Col- 

Sauce oring 

Boil sugar and water together for ten minutes ; add gelatine which 
should soak for ten minutes in water to cover, then the lemon juice and 
mint sauce. Cool, color green, tinting it a little darker than is desired, 
because the coloring fades during the freezing process. Freeze as di- 
rected. Serve as the punch course at a dinner. 

APRICOT ICE 

1 quart can apricots 2 teaspoons Golden Rule Lemon 

1 quart boiling water Extract 

2 cups sugar 
Boil sugar and water together for ten minutes, chop apricots very 
fine, and add them with the juice to the water; flavor when cool, and 
freeze. 

RASPBERRY SHERBET 

1 can raspberries 1 tablespoon Golden Rule Gelatine 

1 cup sugar 1 teaspoon Golden Rule Lemon 

2 egg whites Extract 

1 pint water 

Boil sugar and water together for ten minutes ; add gelatine which 
should be soaked in cold water to cover for ten minutes. Cool, flavor, 
and add raspberries and egg whites beaten stiff. Freeze as directed. 

Pineapple Sherbet. Substitute a can of grated Hawaiian Pine- 
apple for the raspberries in the preceding recipe. 

Note. The following recipes deal with the making of a parfait and 
a mousse, both of which are creams to be frozen without stirring. That 
is, the mixtures are poured into cold wet moulds, the lid sealed with 
lard which is spread over the crack and bound around with a piece of 
cloth. This is then buried in equal parts of cracked ice and salt and 
allowed to stand for three to four hours. 

RASPBERRY MOUSSE 

cup Golden Rule Marshmallow 3 teaspoons Golden Rule Rasp- 
Creme berry Extract 

4 drops Golden Rule Lemon Extract 1 pint heavy cream 

Whip together till stiff, and bury in equal parts ice and salt, as di- 
rected. Serve with canned raspberries. 

86 



C^pCQ^rL^TS^EWS^fl Tr^H^D^I 



COFFEE PARFAIT 

/2 cup sugar l /& cup Golden Rule Marshmallow 
5 egg yolks Creme 

^ cup strong Golden Rule Coffee y 2 teaspoon Golden Rule Vanilla 
I pint heavy cream Extract 

Boil sugar and coffee five minutes, then pour slowly onto egg yolks 
)eaten very light ; return to double-boiler, and cook till the mixture 
:oats the spoon ; beat till cold, then add the vanilla, and whip into the 
:ream and Marshmallow Creme, which should be beaten until nearly 
iolid. Turn into a cold wet mould, seal and bury as directed in note. 
serve with a garnish of cocktail cherries. 

ROSE CUP 

(For afternoon teas or wedding receptions, etc.) 

Half fill sherbet glasses with canned strawberries, flavored with a 
Irop or two of Golden Rule Lemon Extract. Finish with a small table- 
spoon each of raspberry mousse and pineapple sherbet, and dust with 
Golden Rule Cocoanut. 




Orange Bavarian Cream Garnished with Golden Rule 
Citron, Golden Rule Cherries and Marsh- 
mallow Whipped Cream 



87 



.^^ - 



T1F 



MEMORANDA 



MEMORANDA 



- 



C^?CQDrLJTE>I^7 e 2^fI T^3*CL57n=>7im«3 



Cakes 



IN starting a cake, the first thing to be done is to read through the 
recipe thoroughly — something few women stop to do — otherwise 
some ingredient is often omitted, and the result is a failure. After 
this, the pans should be prepared. For all cakes which are made with 
shortening, the pans should be lightly greased with lard, and if a loaf 
cake is to be made the bottom should be lined with thin brown paper, 
cut to fit. In case a large chocolate cake or fruit cake is being made, 
the sides of the pans should be lined as well ; for layer, or cup cakes, it 
is usually sufficient to dredge the pans with flour after greasing. In 
preparing the pans for cakes which do not contain shortening, like 
sponge, angel, etc., the pans do not need greasing, a dredging of flour 
being sufficient. 

Pastry flour should always be used when possible, but if it cannot 
be obtained, bread flour or spring wheat flour may be substituted, by 
using two tablespoons less to every cup designated. Granulated sugar 
is always used, unless another kind is specified; powdered sugar gives 
a very dry fine texture, and brown sugar makes a cake moist. No mat- 
ter how good the recipe, the cake will not be a success unless a good 
baking powder is used. For this reason, I especially recommend Golden 
Rule Baking Powder, which I have found gives uniform results. It is 
always the same and always to be depended upon. All recipes calling 
for sweet milk, coffee or water, demand baking powder; the old-fash- 
ioned custom of mixing the soda and cream of tartar making a very 
porous cake. When sour milk is used, it is a more satisfactory plan 
to add a little soda to the milk, to neutralize the acid, and then proceed 
with the usual amount of Golden Rule Baking Powder. 

Butterine or butter can be used interchangeably, but when lard, 
fat, or chicken fat is used, a half quantity is sufficient, as these fats 
contain no water. 

Many housewives fail to make cakes of distinct flavor, because they 
do not use extracts which withstand the oven heat. That is, many cheap 
extracts not only evaporate during the cooking process, but also change 
flavor. For this reason, I always recommend Golden Rule Extracts, not 
only because they are absolutely pure, but because they always retain 
their flavor, if the proper amount is used. 

After all the ingredients are measured, the mixing may be done. 
Butter should never be melted, as this makes a coarse cake, but rather 
beaten to a cream with a wooden spoon or with the hand. When this 
is done, the sugar may be gradually beaten in, then the flavoring; the 
eggs should be added as specified in the recipe. The Golden Rule Bak- 
ing Powder and the flour should be sifted together to mix them thor- 
oughly, then added alternately with the liquid to the butter mixture. 
Nuts, or fruit of any kind, should be mixed with the flour to prevent 
falling to the bottom of the cake. 

90 



The cake mixture should be spread evenly in the pan, then made 
a little higher at the edges and in the corners so that it will rise evenly. 
If the cake bursts open, there has either been too much flour used, or 
the oven is too hot. All cakes bake better in a moderate oven. Dur- 
ing the first quarter of the baking period they rise, during the second 
they become slightly set, during the third they brown slightly, and dur- 
ing the fourth all the steam is driven off and the cake is completed. A 
cake is done when it shrinks from the sides of .the pan, springs back 
when touched with the finger, and has ceased to hiss or steam. 

RIBBON CAKE 

y 2 cup butter y 2 cup milk 

2 eggs 2 l / 2 teaspoons Golden Rule Baking 

l l / 2 cups flour Powder 

1 cup sugar y> teaspoon Golden Rule Vanilla 

Cream butter, beat in sugar gradually, add the flavoring, and the 
eggs one at a time. Mix baking powder with flour and add alternately 
with the milk. Put one-third of the mixture into a bowl and add to it 
one-fourth teaspoon Golden Rule Cinnamon, one-half teaspoon Golden 
Rule Cloves, grating Golden Rule Nutmeg, two tablespoons Golden Rule 
Raisins, cut in bits, two tablespoons Golden Rule Currants, one table- 
spoon Golden Rule Citron, minced, and one tablespoon Barbados Mo- 
lasses. Color half of the remaining mixture green with Golden Rule 
Pure Vegetable Coloring. Bake each mixture separately in an oblong 
pan, and when cold put together with raspberry jam and ice with Golden 
Rule Raspberry Frosting, colored pale pink with Golden Rule Pure 
Vegetable Red. 

MAPLE CAKE 

34 cup butter 2 teaspoons Golden Rule Baking 

1 cup sugar Powder 

l / 2 cup milk y 2 teaspoon Golden Rule Vanilla 

2 egg whites \ x /% cups flour 

Cream butter, add sugar gradually, then the vanilla. Mix flour with 
baking powder, and add alternately with milk. Then fold in the egg 
whites which should be beaten stiff, and bake in two rounds layers or a 
loaf. Frost with maple nut icing. 

CHOCOLATE CAKE 

1 cup sugar 2 squares Golden Rule Chocolate 
34 cup lard 2 l /> teaspoons Golden Rule Baking 

2 eggs Powder 

y 2 cup milk y 2 teaspoon Golden Rule Vanilla 

\y 2 cups flour y 3 teaspoon Golden Rule Cinnamon 

Cream lard, and add sugar gradually. Separate the eggs, and add 
yolks unbeaten, with the flavoring and the chocolate, melted. Mix bak- 
ing powder and flour, add alternately with milk, and fold in egg whites 
beaten stiff. Make in loaf form and bake forty minutes in a moderate 
oven. When cold, spread the top with a thin layer of Golden Rule 
Marshmallow Creme, and over this pour a thin layer of Golden Rule 
Sweet Chocolate which has been melted. 

91 



SPICE CAKE 

1 cup sugar 2 J / 2 teaspoons Golden Rule Baking 
% cup butter Powder 

2 eggs 24 teaspoon Golden Rule Ground 
y 2 cup milk Cloves 

1-;- cups flour .)4 teaspoon Golden Rule Ground 

]/ 2 teaspoon Golden Rule Trop- Cinnamon 

ical Fruit Extract J / 2 teaspoon Golden Rule Mace 

Cream butter and beat in flavoring, sugar, and eggs well whipped. 
Mix together flour, spices and baking powder, and add alternately to the 
mixture with milk. Bake in layers in a moderate oven and put together 
with marshmallow icing, or marshmallow whipped cream. 

ALMOND LOAF CAKE 

Yz cup butter 4 egg whites 

1 cup sugar 1 teaspoon Golden Rule Baking 

y cup milk Powder 

y 2 teaspoon Golden Rule Almond y 2 cup Golden Rule Shredded Al- 
and Pistachio Extract monds 

\y 2 cups flour 
Cream butter, beat in sugar and flavoring, mix flour with baking 
powder and almonds, and add alternately with milk to mixture. Beat 
egg whites stiff and dry, and fold in. Turn into a tube pan, sprinkle 
shredded almonds over the top, and bake in a moderate oven. This is a 
very rich cake and should be cut in thin slices for serving. 

PLAIN LAYER CAKE 

y, cup butter y 2 cup milk 

1 cup sugar \y 2 cups flour 

2 eggs 2y 2 teaspoons Golden Rule Baking 
1 teaspoon Golden Rule Flavoring Powder 

Cream butter, add sugar and flavoring and eggs well beaten. Mix 
flour with baking powder and add alternately to mixture with milk. 
Bake in two layer cake-pans in a moderate oven. If desired, this can 
be made with one egg. This is a good foundation cake, and can be 
varied by the filling, icing and flavoring. To make a chocolate layer 
cake, use Golden Rule Cream and Chocolate Icing. To make a rasp- 
berry cake, flavor with Golden Rule Orange and put together with rasp- 
berry jam and frost with Golden Rule Raspberry Icing. To make a 
cream cake, put together with cooked cream filling. 

MARSHMALLOW FUDGE CAKE 

1 cup sugar y 2 teaspoon each Golden Rule Va- 

y 2 cup butter nilla and Lemon Extracts 

3 egg whites 2 teaspoons Golden Rule Baking 

% cup milk Powder 

2 cups flour 
Cream butter, add sugar and flavorings; mix the baking powder 
with the flour and add alternately to mixture with the milk. Fold in 
the egg whites beaten stiff and dry, and bake in two layers or else in 
cup cakes. Frost with marshmallow fudge icing. 

92 



NUT AND RAISIN CAKE 

1 cup sugar 2 egg whites 

y 2 cup butter 2 J / 2 teaspoons Golden Rule Baking 

3 egg yolks Powder 

Yz cup milk y cup chopped Golden Rule 

Yz teaspoon Golden Rule Walnuts 

Orange Extract y cn P Golden Rule Raisins 

V/ 2 cups flour Few grains Golden Rule Mace 

Cream butter, add sugar and flavoring and egg yolks unbeaten. Mix 
flour, baking powder, mace, raisins and nuts, and add alternately with 
milk to mixture. Then fold in egg whites beaten stiff, and bake in a 
moderate oven. Cover with uncooked marshmallow icing, and dec- 
orate with cluster raisins stuffed with bits of Golden Rule Glace Cher- 
ries, and leaves cut from Golden Rule Citron, and about the edge, with 
halves of Golden Rule Glace Cherries and Golden Rule Walnut Meats. 
This is a very beautiful Thanksgiving or Christmas cake. 

CHOCOLATE CREAM CAKE 

Make a plain layer cake, flavoring it with Golden Rule Vanilla ; put 
together with jam, and pile chocolate whipped cream on top. To make 
the latter, whip together two tablespoons Golden Rule Marshmallow 
Creme, three-fourths cup heavy cream, and two teas] toons Golden Rule 
Cream and Chocolate dissolved in two tablespoons boiling water, and 
then cooled. Add a few drops of Golden Rule Vanilla and use at once. 

SOFT GINGER BREAD 

J / 2 cup Barbados .Molasses \y> cups bread flour 

6 tablespoons sugar T i teaspoon salt 

y 2 cup boiling water y 2 teaspoon Golden Rule Soda 

\y 2 tablespoons melted lard y teaspoon Golden Rule Ginger 

Mix together molasses, sugar and water, add lard and then the soda, 
flour, salt and ginger mixed. Bake about thirty minutes in a moderate 
oven. If it is desirable to vary the recipe somewhat, add to the flour 
a third cup of Golden Rule Cocoanut or a half cup of Golden Rule 
Raisins. This is delicious with lemon sauce or marshmallow whipped 
cream as a dessert, or may be frosted with plain marshmallow icing. 



CAKE ICINGS AND FILLINGS 

There is probably no other department of cookery about which I 
have had more inquiries than the making of icings for cakes, and yet, 
given common sense and good materials, there is no other kind oi cook- 
ery that is more simple. In making any uncooked icing, it is necessary 
to use confectioner's sugar, which has the finest grain of any made; in 
making a cooked icing, plain granulated sugar is used unless a caramel 



co~ ^-L-5Tp^r~^ T^T T^^r^jn-^ y^ 



flavor is desired, when brown sugar is substituted. The greatest trou- 
ble with most icings is that they harden and break, and. in fact, any 
icing, however soft when made, will become brittle on standing. 

The Citizens' Wholesale Supply Company has recently produced a 
preparation known as Marshmallow Creme, that will overcome all 
hardening and breaking of icings and frostings, whether boiled or un- 
cooked. It is made <.A the finest and purest materials that can he ob- 
tained, and greatly enhances the flavor of the frosting. It is needless 
lo sa\ that this has found a permanent place in my household, for 1 con- 
sider anything that will make possible consistently good results, is an 
economy. 

UNCOOKED MARSHMALLOW ICING 

1 tablespoon boiling water 1 tablespoon Golden Rule Marsh- 

Abont l'. t enps confectioner's sugar mallow Creme 

1 .• teaspoon an\ Golden Rule Extract 

Put water, extract, and marshmallow creme in a small bowl. Then 
stir in gradually the confectioner's sugar which should be sifted, until 
Stiff enough so that it will not run from a cake. Do not make it too 
stiff, but set it in a draft of air to harden. 

COOKED MARSHMALLOW ICING 

1 cup granulated sugar 1 tablespoon Golden Rule Marsh- 

'.( cup milk mallow Creme 

'j teaspoon any Golden Rule Extract 

Boil together sugar and milk without stirring until it threads or 
tonus a soft ball in cold water. Then pour onto the marshmallow 
creme, add extract, and beat until stiff enough to put on the cake. 

FUDGE ICING 

1 cup granulated sugar 1 tablespoon Golden Rule Marsh- 

• P milk mallow Creme 

1 _> tablespoon butter . ispoon Golden Rule Vanilla 

1 square Golden Rule Chocolate Extract 

Boil together milk, chocolate, butter and sugar, until a soft bali 
will form in cold water; avid the marshmallow creme and the extract, 
and beat till stiff enough to spread. 

CREAM AND CHOCOLATE ICING 

aspoons Golden Rule Cream 1 tablespoon Golden Rule Marsh- 
and Chocolate mallow Creme 

aspoon Golden Ride Vanilla 2 tablespoons boiling water 
About l T j cups confectioner's sugar 

Dissolve the chocolate in boiling water and let stand about three 
minutes: then add the marshmallow creme. vanilla and sifted confec- 

. : . to stiffen. 

9i 



dC 



/^©njiD^r^'E^] tw^tzjj ti^it 



COOKED CREAMED FILLING 



y 2 teaspoon Golden Rule Vanilla 

or Lemon Kxti 
2 tablespoons Golden Rule Corn 

starch 



\y 2 cups milk (scalded) 
34 teaspoon salt 

1 teaspoon butter 

2 egg yolks 

Mix together cornstarch, sugar, salt, egg and butter; add to hoi 
milk and stir for twenty minutes constantly over hoi water; cool and 
flavor. 








Nut and Raisin Cake frosted with Uncooked Golden Rule Marshmallow Icing 

and decorated with Golden Rule Raisins, Walnut Meats 

and Glace Cherries 



95 



PANAMA-PACIFIC EXPOSITION 

FOOD PRODUCTS BUILDING 



GOLDEN RULE 




Cake 



Butterless 
Milkless 
Eggless 

Served at the "GOLDEN RULE BOOTH" 




RECIPE 

2 Cupfuls Brown Sugar 

% Cupful Lard 2 Cupfuls Water 

3 Cupfuls Raisins 1 Teaspoonful Salt 

2 Teaspoonfuls Golden Rule Powdered Cinnamon 

1 Teaspoonful Golden Rule Powdered Cloves 
Yz Teaspoonful Golden Rule Powdered Mace 
Yz Teaspoonful Golden Rule Grated Nutmeg 

2 Teaspoonfuls Golden Rule Baking Soda 

4 Cupfuls Flour 

1 Teaspoonful Golden Rule Baking Powder 
l x 2 Cupfuls Chopped Nut Meats 

3 Tablespoonfuls Warm Water 

1 Teaspoon Golden Rule Extract of Vanilla or Lemon 

Put lard into sauce pan, add sugar, water, raisins, salt and 
spices, and boil THREE minutes ; cool and when cold add flour, 
baking powder, soda dissolved in warm water and nut meats. Mix 
well and turn into a larded and floured cake tin and bake in a slow 
oven one and one-half hours. 

Finer goods than GOLDEN RULE Flavoring Extracts and 
Ground Spices are not produced. Very, very few have the quality 
that is represented in ours, no matter what price is paid. 

Goods direct from the manufacturer to consumer. 

Write us for prices and particulars. 

Everything in Pure Food Products. 

The Citizens' Wholesale Supply Co. 

GRANT AND MT. VERNON AVES. 

COLUMBUS, OHIO 

SEE OUR EXHIBIT IN THE FOOD PRODUCTS BUILDING 

BLOCK 20— AVENUE 4— WESTFIELD SECTION 



The above is a reproduction of a circular distributed at the Pana- 
ma-Pacific Exposition, San Francisco, 1915. Very many of our friends 
have been greatly pleased with this recipe, therefore we are including 
it in the book. 

96 



g& @njlD) E^; < I^f3 TM^T2^70=>7l 



MEMORANDA 



97 



MEMORANDA 



98 



> eg? cop£Ljyp^> 'rm c z^2i^^> t t2J7 n^Tm? ja 



Sandwiches for Various Occasions 



SANDWICHES for party affairs should be as dainty and unusual as 
one can concoct. Bread for successful sandwich making, no matter 
what the kind, should be at least twenty- four hours old, when it 
can be sliced thin, the crusts removed and the bread shaped before the 
butter is applied. The latter should be creamed as for making cake, so 
that it will spread easily and the bread will not be broken. The fillings 
may then be spread on, the sandwiches pressed firmly together and either 
wrapped in paraffine paper and set aside in a tin box until used, or else 
be wrapped in a napkin wrung dry from hot water. 

There are two kinds of sandwiches — savory, and sweet ; under the 
first heading may be classified those which are made with meat, fish, 
Golden Rule Peanut Butter, cheese, Golden Rule Olives and Pimentos, 
lettuce, celery, etc. ; under the second, all kinds of sandwiches which are 
wholly or partially sweet, such as those made from jam, honey, fruit, 
frosting, and nuts in combination with a sweet, such as Golden Rule 
Marshmallow Creme. Fillings for savory sandwiches are usually mixed 
with salad dressing; Golden Rule Ready-Made Salad Dressing, or may- 
onnaise made with Golden Rule Olive Oil being suitable. The dressing 
should be well seasoned. Savory sandwiches are used in the main course 
of a repast, as demonstrated in the menus for entertaining. Sweet sand- 
wiches may also act as part of the main portion, but are more gener- 
ally used to pass with coffee, tea, Golden Rule Cream and Chocolate, or 
punch, when only the two articles are to be served. ,The following sug- 
gestions show how a few types of sandwiches can be made, but any 
housewife with imagination will find that she can make sandwiches that 
are delicious from many ingredients already at hand. 

FILLINGS FOR SAVORY SANDWICHES 

Finely minced chicken, hard-cooked eggs, tuna fish, or canned sal- 
mon mixed with Golden Rule Salad Dressing. 

Finely minced lamb, moistened with a little thick cream and a dash 
of Golden Rule Mint Sauce. 

Thinly sliced roast or corned beef, sprinkled with a few drops of 
Golden Rule Worcestershire Sauce, and a little Golden Rule Celery Salt. 

Golden Rule Peanut Butter and grated Parmesan cheese. 

Equal parts of Golden Rule Olives, chopped, and cream cheese, and 
a few finely minced walnut meats. 

Finely chopped hard-cooked eggs, with a little minced celery and 
currie salad dressing. 

Sardines, pounded to a paste, and mixed with a dash of Golden 
Rule Onion Salt and mayonnaise dressing, or a little tomato ketchup. 

Lettuce leaves, dipped in French dressing. 

Finely minced ham, moistened with mayonnaise dressing, or a little 
cold currant sauce. 

99 



CG^co^ rT-jfro^r-^, ?!^! t^^CL^EL^I 



FILLINGS FOR SWEET SANDWICHES 

Uncooked marshmallow icing with Golden Rule Candied Orange 
Peel, and Golden Rule Glace Cherries, mixed throughout. 

Chocolate fudge Frosting mixed with finely chopped ('.olden Rule 
Walnuts. 

Cream cheese mixed with a little Golden Rule Marshmallow Creme, 
a few drops of lemon juice, and a little finely minced Golden Rule Crys- 
tallized Ginger. 

Equal parts of Golden Rule Raisins and Currants, stewed, rubbed 
to a paste, and seasoned with a few drops each of Golden Rule Orange 
and Lemon Extracts. 

Golden Rule Peanut Butter and raspberry jam. 




Chicken Sandwiches garnished with Golden Rule Olives. Brown Bread and 

Cream Cheese Sandwiches garnished with Golden Rule Walnut 

Meats, embellished with Parsley and Radish Roses 



100 



MEMORANDA 



un 



MEMORANDA 



102 



>G^? CpDIUIp) I^g; 1 !?^! T^^Tt-JJ TT-^iT 



Pastry 



THE word pastry, as used in this country, applies to pics, tarts and 
sometimes cream puffs, all of which are used as desserts. Meal 
and fish pies, though properly classified under the name of pastry, 
are considered under the headings of meat or fish, while pate cases and 
Swedish timbale shells belong under entrees because they are used only 
for formal meals. 

Pie crusts may be made in many ways, but the essential for a light 
flaky result is quick work, enough shortenings, and a cool place in which 
to conduct the making. The shortening may be chopped into the flour 
by means of a knife or rubbed in by the finger tips, the latter being a 
more rapid method, which is personally used by the writer. If a short 
pie-crust is desired, all of the shortening may be worked in by this 
method at once, but if a flaky result is wished, it is better to roll in part 
of the shortening. 

The most satisfactory flour is that known as pastry, or cake flour. 
The shortening may be chosen according to one's idea, lard giving a soft, 
tender crust, vegetable oils giving a crust slightly darker in color, while 
beef suet or butter, singly or in combination, may be used. The smallest 
amount possible of water should be put in, as too much toughens the 
crust. The general proportion for plain pastry is about a quarter of a 
cup of water to a cup of flour, and a fourth cup of lard to a cup of 
pastry flour is generally the right amount. In case many pies are made, 
a week's supply of crust may be made at a time, and if lightly dredged 
with flour, put in a covered bowl and set in a cold place it will keep a 
week. In case there is any difficulty in making a light crust, a small 
amount of Golden Rule Baking Powder will insure • success, as in the 
following recipe : 

PLAIN PASTRY 

y 2 teaspoon Golden Rule Baking Y\ teaspoon salt 

Powder Y\- cup shortening 

3 cups pastry flour About Ya cup water 

Sift together flour, salt and baking powder, and add the shortening, 
working it in by the preferred method until it looks coarse- and crumbly, 
like meal. Then add gradually, meanwhile stirring the mixture with a 
knife, enough cold water to form it into a ball; turn onto a hoard 
lightly dredged with flour and roll into the shape desired. 

FLAKY PASTRY 

3 cups flour Ya cup lard 

y A cup butter } \ teaspoon salt 

About £ ( cup water 
Add salt to flour and work in one-half the shortening, as directed. 
Moisten the dough with water, turn onto a slightly floured board, 
pack and roll out in rectangular shape. Cream the balance of the short- 
ening so that it can be easily manipulated and spread over half the crust 

L03 



CGFS>Ca~^riJ D~p^ r^B, c T^ r 7 TW^TZJJTt^T 



to within an inch of the edge; fold over the paste, pinching the edges 
together firmly to incase as much air as possible, press all over gently 
with a rolling pin to work in the shortening and then roll it out. Repeat 
the folding and rolling three times. 

GOLDEN RULE CREAM AND CHOCOLATE PIE 

2 cups boiling water 2y> tablespoons Golden Rule Cream 

2 tablespoons sugar and Chocolate 

V/z tablespoons Golden Rule Corn- 3 eggs 

starch 34 teaspoon salt 

y 2 teaspoon Golden Rule Vanilla 

Pour boiling water on the chocolate and stir till dissolved. Beat 
together the cornstarch, salt, vanilla, egg yolks and sugar, add choco- 
late, cool, and pour into a deep pie-plate lined with pastry. Bake in a 
moderate oven till nearly done, then cover with a meringue made of the 
three egg whites, beaten stiff with three tablespoons of confectioner's 
sugar, and finish with ten minutes in a slow oven. 

PINEAPPLE SPONGE PIE 

2 cups grated canned pineapple 1 cup sugar 

2 tablespoons melted butter 2 eggs 

1 tablespoon Golden Rule Corn- y 3 teaspoon Golden Rule Lemon 

starch Extract 

Pastry 

Beat egg yolks and sugar together, with the cornstarch, add to pine- 
apple with the lemon extract, cut and fold egg whites beaten until stiff, 
pour into a plate lined with pastry and bake until set. 

COCOANUT CUSTARD PIE 

2 cups milk 3 eggs 

6 tablespoons sugar 1 teaspoon melted butter 

Yz teaspoon Golden Rule Vanilla ]/$ cup Golden Rule Cocoanut 

3 tablespoons powdered sugar Pastry 

Beat egg yolks with sugar, butter and vanilla; add milk and cocoa- 
nut ; line a deep pic-plate with pastry, pour in the mixture and bake in 
a moderate oven. When nearly done spread over a meringue made of 
the egg whites and three tablespoons of powdered sugar, and bake ten 
minutes longer in a very slow oven. 

LITTLE PUMPKIN PIES 

\ J /2 cups sifted canned pumpkin 3 eggs 

3 tablespoons Golden Rule Barba- y cup sugar 

dos Molasses 34 teaspoon salt 

y 2 teaspoon Golden Rule Ginger 2 tablespoons melted butter 

Yz teaspoon Golden Rule Cinnamon \]/ 2 cups milk 

Pastry 
Mix in order given, line shallow cup cake pans with the pastry, pour 
in the mixture, and bake in a moderate oven till the centers are firm — 
about thirty minutes. 

FRUIT TARTS 
Cover the bottoms of inverted cup cake pans with pastry, prick in 
several places and then bake. Fill with sliced canned apricots, canned 

104 



Cgg^ CQDYL=£T^> T^T^H. TsF^TZJJTI-jT 



- 



strawberries drained from the juice, or canned raspberries, or stewed 
Golden Rule Prunes. Serve garnished with a spoonful of Golden Rule 
Marshmallow Creme. If desired, the pastry may be baked on an inverted 
pie-plate and the canned fruit be combined with a little of the juice 
and thickened with Golden Rule Cornstarch in the proportion of a table- 
spoon to a cup of fruit and liquid. This should be done long enough 
ahead so that the mixture may become cold. A few drops of Golden 
Rule Lemon Extract will greatly improve the flavor. 

CHEESE STICKS 

Roll any remaining pie crust thin, sprinkle plentifully with grated 
cheese, and dust with Golden Rule Paprika. Fold, press edges slightly 
together, roll out and add cheese as before. Do this three times, cut in 
long narrow strips, and bake in pans lined with brown paper. The 
oven should be moderate. These may be used to accompany any salad 
course or with coffee at the end of luncheon or dinner. 

CREAM PUFFS 

4 eggs 1 cup pastry flour 

y 2 cup boiling water y 2 cup butter 

Melt butter in boiling water, turn in flour and cook over heat until 
it adheres to the spoon and does not stick to the sides of the pan. Cool, 
then add eggs, unbeaten, one at a time; form into smooth rounds the 
size of an egg, set two inches apart, and bake until browned in a mod- 
erate oven. Split the sides and drop in generous spoonfuls of marsh- 
mallow whipped cream, press together, frost and strew with Golden 
Rule Glace Cherries, shredded, or little candies. Serve within a few 

MARSHMALLOW WHIPPED CREAM 

1 cup heavy whipping cream 
2 tablespoons Golden Rule Marsh- Y\ teaspoon any Golden Rule Kx- 

mallow Creme tract desired 

Beat together until stiff enough to hold its shape. This is a delicious 
tilling for a sponge or cream cake or for eclairs, or can be used for 
metropolitans or other small cakes, or as sauce with puddings, short- 
cakes, etc. The marshmallow creme increases the bulk fully one-half 
more than when cream alone is used, besides acting as ;i stiffening agent 
to keep the cream from falling. It will stand for hours. 




Cream Puffs decorated with Golden Rule 

Marshmallow Frosting and Candies 

105 



C^s>CQDIL=Zr^>T^, t T^n T§C^lL57 TL=j1 



MEMORANDA 



106 



MEMORANDA 



107 



aca?co^n = rri3^rB, t i^3 u^r^n-^r^B, 



Cookies and Little Cakes 



THE charm of cookies and little cakes lies in the exquisite dainti- 
ness. Of course, there are always those which are made for the 
children to eat between meals and which should be of suitable size 
to appease a hungry child's appetite. But with the exception of these, 
cookies and cakes should be small enough so that they can be eaten 
without being broken into bits, and if to serve as the accompaniment 
to afternoon tea or some other affair where extra plates and forks arc 
not to be used, they should be dry enough so that they will not stick to 
the fingers, nor soil the gloves. 

As a general rule all cooky mixtures that are to be rolled out should 
be mixed a few hours before baking, the smallest amount of flour pos- 
sible being used to make them of the right consistency. On standing, 
the flour swells and the cooky is more tender because less is used. 

Drop cooky mixtures, on the other hand, should be baked at once, 
at least two inches separating each cooky when dropped on the baking- 
sheet. 

Decorating cakes and cookies is an art in itself, that yields big 
results for a small amount of work. Given some of the Golden Rule 
Pure Vegetable Colorings, enough icing made with Golden Rule Marsh- 
mallow Creme so that it will not stiffen while being manipulated, some 
little candies, some Golden Rule Nuts, Golden Rule Glace Cherries, 
Golden Rule Crystallized Pineapple, Golden Rule Cocoanut, Golden Rule 
Candied Ginger, Golden Rule Citron, any woman can create more beauti- 
ful effects than those of the caterer, by spending a little time and thought. 

MARGUERITES 

2 egg whites 2 tablespoons Golden Rule Marsh- 

2 tablespoons Golden Rule Cocoanut mallow Creme 

% teaspoon Golden Rule Vanilla ]A cup Golden Rule English Wal- 
1 3 cup powdered sugar nuts 

Butter thin crackers 
Beat egg whites till nearly stiff and gradually whip in sugar, marsh- 
mallow creme and vanilla. Add nuts chopped fine and the cocoanut ; 
spread upon crackers and bake in a moderate oven till slightly browned. 

CRESCENTS 

1 cup butter 3 teaspoons Golden Rule Baking 

2 cups sugar Powder 

2 eggs \ l /2 teaspoons Golden Rule Orange 

Flour to roll, about 5 cups Extract 

34 cup milk 
Cream butter, add sugar and egg yolks well beaten, then the other 
ingredients. Let stand covered for several hours, then roll to one-eighth 
inch thickness, shape into crescents, brush over with slightly beaten 

108 



c^? cqpiXzJTjS* r^ c s^fi Tw^TL^rri-^: 



egg, and sprinkle with Golden Rule Candied Ginger chopped very fine. 
Bake in a moderate oven. 

CHOCOLATE DROP COOKIES 

y 2 cup butter y 2 teaspoon Golden Rule Vanilla 

1 cup sugar \]/ 2 squares Golden Rule Chocolate 

2 eggs 2 teaspoons Golden Rule Baking 
Golden Rule Cream and Powder 

Chocolate Icing 2 cups flour 

1 tablespoon milk 
Cream butter, beat in sugar, eggs, and vanilla ; then stir in the 
chocolate which should be melted. Mix the flour and baking powder. 
add alternately to the mixture with the milk, and drop by teaspoon onto 
an oiled baking sheet. When done, cover with Cream and Chocolate 
Icing, and sprinkle, if desired, with cocoanut or chopped nuts. 

METROPOLITANS 

34 cup butter \ J / 2 teaspoons Golden Rule Baking 

1 cup sugar Powder 

2 eggs y 2 teaspoon Golden Rule Lemon 
y 2 cup milk Extract 

Currant jelly Golden Rule Cocoanut 

lYs cups flour Golden Rule Raspberry Icing 

Marshmallow whipped cream 
Prepare a plain cake mixture of the butter, sugar, egg, lemon ex- 
tract, milk, flour and baking powder. Bake in cup cake pan>, ice with 
raspberry frosting, roll in cocoanut, and garnish the tops with marsh- 
mallow whipped cream and jelly. 

LITTLE CAKES 

24 cup sugar 3 teaspoons Golden Rule Baking 

Ys cup butter Powder 

2 eggs Golden Rule Marshmallow Icing 

y 2 cup milk Golden Rule Cake Colorings 

y 2 teaspoon Golden Rule Trop- Golden Rule Candied Cherries, Nuts, 
ical Fruit Flavoring Citron, etc. 

\V 2 cups flour 
Make a plain cake mixture of the first seven ingredients, and bake 
in thin layers, then shape with fancy cutters into small cakes ; brush oft 
the crums, and ice all over with a thin sugar and water frosting. When 
this has dried put on marshmallow icing, delicately colored in different 
shades, and garnish as desired with nuts, cherries, cocoanut, etc. 

SEED CAKES 

Vs cup butter 3 tablespoons Golden Rule Caraway 

1 egg Seed 

1 cup confectioner's sugar y 2 teaspoon Golden Rule Tropical 

24 cup flour Fruit Extract 

Cream together the butter, sugar and egg, add flavoring and cara- 
way seed, and beat into flour. Drop by teaspoonfuls onto an oiled cooky 
sheet, and bake in a moderate oven till the edges are brown. 

109 



HERMITS 

1 cup sugar ; i cup Golden Rule Raisins 
34 cup butter teaspoon G'olden Rule Soda 

34 cup lard 34 teaspoon Golden Rule Nutmeg 

2 eggs ] j teaspoon Golden Rule Cinnamon 

3 cups Hour }/2 teaspoon Golden Rule Cloves 

Cream butter and sugar together, add eggs well beaten and the rai- 
sins. Dissolve the soda in two tablespoons milk, add to mixture with the 
spices and flour, roll to one-fourth inch thickness, and shape with a 
round cutter. Bake about twelve minutes in a rather quick oven. 

LITTLE FRUIT CAKES 

Y> cup butter 4 tablespoons chopped Golden Rule 
Y cup brown sugar Candied Orange Peel 

y 2 cup Barbados Molasses 34 cup minced Golden Rule Citron 

2 eggs Ya cup Golden Rule Currants 

y 2 cup milk y 2 teaspoon Golden Rule Cinnamon 

2 cups Hour y 2 teaspoon Golden Rule Allspice 

y 2 teaspoon Golden Rule Cloves 34' teaspoon each Golden Rule Lem- 
t en spoon Golden Rule Soda on and Blackberry Extracts 

■}.\ cup Golden Rule Raisins 

Mix together soda, spices and flour and stir in the prepared fruit. 
Cream the butter, beat in sugar and eggs, add flavoring and molasses; 
add flour alternately with milk to the mixture till all is in. Oil cup cake 
tins thoroughly, line them with paper, pour in the mixture, cover with 
paraffine paper and steam forty-five minutes, then set in a slow oven for 
twenty to thirty minutes more. 



NUT WAFERS 

34 cup butter 13^ teaspoons Golden Rule Orange 

Y cup sugar Extract 

2 tablespoons milk y 2 cup chopped Golden Rule Wal- 

1 well-beaten egg nut Meats 

13^> teaspoons Golden Rule About iy cups flour 

Baking Powder 34 teaspoon salt 

Cream butter, beat in sugar and egg, milk and flavoring. Then mix 
together nuts, baking powder, salt and flour, add gradually to mixture, 
cover and let stand one hour. Roll thin, brush over with slightly beaten 
egg, if convenient, sprinkle each cooky with some coarsely chopped nut 
meats and bake. 

110 



<^?copTi=jT^>'nm, e 2^n i^^'l^h^iM^ 



GOLDEN RULE OLIVE OIL COOKIES 



-.-; cup Barbados Molasses 

y 2 cup sugar 

y 2 cup sweet milk 

1 egg 

Z l / 2 cups pastry flour 



y 2 cup Golden Rule Olive Oil 
\y 2 teaspoons Golden Rule Soda 
Y$ cup Golden Rule Raisins 
1 teaspoon Golden Rule Cloves 
1 teaspoon Golden Rule Nutmeg 



1 teaspoon salt 

Put molasses, sugar, olive oil, milk and the egg, well beaten, into a 
bowl. Mix together soda, flour, salt, spices and raisins. Combine mix- 
tures, drop on an oiled cooky sheet by large teaspoonfuls three inches 
apart ; put a raisin in the center of each and bake in a moderate oven. 




A Wicker Tray of Cakes arranged for Service at a Tea or Reception, Little 

Fancy Cakes, Dropped Chocolate Cookies, Crescents 

and Metropolitans 



111 



MEMORANDA 



112 



MEMORANDA 



ii3 



C^^CQDHrJT^^T^T^J TF^UJJ rur^ 



Candies 



THE making- of candies at home is not at all difficult in fact, if done 
on a day when there is an hour or two of leisure, it ceases to be 
a task and becomes a great pleasure. Too much cannot be said 
in favor of the mother who allows her children to make candy at home 
of pure ingredients, instead of allowing them to buy promiscuously from 
the nearest store, where, in reality, the candies are often "penny poi- 
son." Then there is the woman who wishes to make a little gift that 
does not seem elaborate, and is not expensive. She has little time to 
sew, but an hour or two for home made candies can be snatched from 
her bus}- life. Such a gift, either of candies of one kind or mixed with 
other candies, and stuffed figs, prunes and raisins, is always acceptable. 

There are delightful ways of packing these candies, all kinds of 
pretty boxes and baskets which can be purchased from five cents up- 
wards; they should be lined with fringed waxed paper and tied with 
gilt cord, strands of linen floss, or dainty ribbon. However, home made 
candies, to be really good, must be made of the best materials. The 
Citizens' Wholesale Supply Co. have a wide range on which to draw. 
Barbados molasses, which is free from sulphurous acid, for taffy, but- 
ter scotch and caramels ; all kinds of sugar of superior grade ; nuts which 
are large and perfect; cocoanut so delicious and digestible that one 
could eat it plain ; glace cherries ; crystallized pineapple and ginger ; 
prunes for stuffing of unexcelled flavor; a multitude of extracts for fla- 
vorings; sweet chocolate for dipping chocolate creams; pure vegetable 
colorings — the list is almost endless. 

The foundation of chocolate creams and many other candies is fon- 
dant. There are two kinds, quick fondant, and cooked fondant. The 
first, as the name suggests, may be made in a few minutes, and if put 
together, the Golden Rule way, is much more satisfactory than that 
which is cooked. Candies made with it will keep without drying because 
they contain Golden Rule Marshmallow Cremc. 

QUICK FONDANT 

1 | cup Golden Rule Marshmallow 2 to 3 cups confectioner's sugar 

Creme From 1 to 2 teaspoons Golden Rule 

2 l /> tablespoons boiling water Flavoring 

Add water and flavoring to marshmallow creme, beat in the sugar 
a little at a time till the mixture is stiff enough to knead on a board, 
dredged with the sugar. 

COCOANUT BALLS 

Use half the recipe above, and work in one-half cup Golden Rule 
Cocoanut. Form into balls, and roll in cocoanut. 

114 



CHOCOLATE ALMONDS 

To one-half the recipe for quick fondant add a square of melted 
Golden Rule Chocolate and shape around blanched almond meats. Roll 
in granulated sugar. 

FRUIT PASTE 

To one-half the recipe for quick fondant add a cup of mixed Golden 
Rule Glace Cherries, Golden Rule Raisins, Golden Rule Crystallized Pine- 
apple and Golden Rule Candied Orange Peel, all of which should be put 
through the food chopper together. Flavor with Golden Rule Orange 
Extract, toss on a board dredged with confectioner's sugar, and roll out 
to one-fourth inch thickness. Let stand a few moments, then stamp 
into rounds with a tiny cutter, or shape into squares with a sharp knife. 
Roll in confectioner's sugar. 

CHOCOLATE CREAMS 

Use the recipe for quick fondant and divide into four portions. 
Color one pink with Golden Rule Vegetable Red and flavor with Golden 
Rule Raspberry Extract. Color a second portion yellow with ('.olden 
Rule Coloring and flavor with Golden Rule Orange Extract ; add a 
fourth cup of chopped Golden Rule Walnut Meats to a third portion 
and flavor with vanilla. Color a fourth quantity with Golden Rule Pure 
Vegetable Green and flavor with Golden Rule Pistachio and Almond 
Extracts. Form into small cones and let stand a few hours to stiffen. 
Then melt some Golden Rule Sweet Chocolate in a double-boiler, and 
when partly cooled, put each cone on a sharp hat pin, dip quickly in the 
chocolate and let stand to drain on paraffine paper. Bits of fruit cake, 
Golden Rule Nut Meats, Golden Rule Crystallized Pineapple and Gulden 
Rule Crystallized Ginger may be dipped in the same Way. 

FENWAY COCKTAILS 

Drain cocktail cherries and form a thin coating of quick fondant 
around them. Let dry as directed, and dip in chocolate. 

PEPPERMINT DROPS 

2 cups granulated sugar */> cup boiling water 

2 tablespoons Golden Rule Marsh- Golden Rule Peppermint Extract 
mallow Creme to taste 

Boil together sugar and water without stirring until it will form a 
soft ball in cold water. Add marshmallow creme and peppermint and 
beat till thickened and creamy. Drop by small teaspoonfuls on paraffine 
paper. 

WINTERGREEN DROPS 

Use above recipe, tinting the mixture, when creamy, with Golden 
Rule Pure Vegetable Red and flavoring with Golden Rule Wintergreen 
Extract. 

115 



<f^S ro^RJ To^ r^B^TT 3 ! TW^TZJJTL^T 



MAPLE NUT CARAMELS 

34 cup butter j j teaspoon Golden Rule Maple 
2 cups Barbados Molasses Kxtract 

1 cup brown sugar 1 cup broken Golden Rule Wal- 
y 2 cup milk nut Meats 

Melt butter, and add molasses, sugar and milk. Stir till sugar is 
dissolved, bring to boiling point and boil until a firm ball may be formed, 
when a little is dropped in cold water. Then add flavoring and nuts 
and turn into a buttered pan, to one inch in depth. Cool, and cut in 
small squares. 

PLAIN FUDGE 

y 2 cup milk 3 tablespoons butter 

Y> teaspoon Golden Ride Vanilla 3 tablespoons Golden Rule Marsh- 
Extract mallow Creme 

2 cups sugar 

Stir mixture till sugar is dissolved, then add butter and boil till 
a soft ball can be formed in cold water. Turn in the marshmallow 
creme and flavoring and beat till creamy. To make chocolate fudge, 
add two squares of shaved Golden Rule Chocolate to above mixture. 

TURKISH PASTE 

% ciip orange juice T / 2 teaspoon Golden Rule Lemon 

3 envelopes Golden Rule Gelatine Extract 

% cup Golden Rule Glace Cherries, 2 cups granulated sugar 
minced J/2 cup cold water 

34 cup Golden Rule Almond Meats, 2 tablespoons Golden Rule Can- 
chopped died Orange Peel 

Add gelatine to orange juice and let stand till the liquid is absorbed. 
Put sugar and water together and stir over a slow fire till the sugar is 
dissolved ; add gelatine and let boil twenty minutes. Cool slightly, add 
lemon extract, the fruit chopped fine and the nuts, and turn into a bread 
pan rinsed with cold water. Let stand over night in a cool place, then 
sift confectioner's sugar over top of paste, loosen at the edge with a 
knife, and gently pull onto a board dredged with confectioner's sugar. 
Cut in cubes, roll in confectioner's sugar and store in air-tight tin cans. 

SUGARED PRUNES 

Remove pits from Golden Rule Prunes with a sharp knife, and refill 
centers with a little quick fondant mixed with Golden Rule Candied 
Orange Peel or chopped Walnut Meats. Roll in granulated sugar. 

SALTED ALMONDS 

Pour boiling water over meats from Golden Rule Almonds and let 
stand two minutes. Drain, slip off skins and dry the nut meats thor- 
oughly on cheese cloth. Pour about an inch of Golden Rule Olive Oil 

116 



K^?CQPiLj : T~p^y^, c s^fi t&^tujvl^z 



into a frying-pan and when this is hot enough to brown a bit of bread, 
turn in the almonds, and stir constantly till pale brown. Drain off the 
oil, turn nuts onto brown paper so that the grease may be absorbed, and 
dust with salt. Peanuts can be done in the same way. The oil can be 
used over and over for the same purpose, or can be used up in olive oil 
cookies, or boiled oil salad dressing. 




Chocolate Cream Turkish Paste, Cocoanut Balls and Maple Nut 
Caramels made with Golden Rule Products 



117 



MEMORANDA 



118 



MEMORANDA 



119 



C^s><ZQDH=jl^>'L^, c 2j^n TW^TUTTL^ T^ 



Beverages, Hot and Cold 



VERY few women make a good cup of tea. There are several rea- 
sons for this, among" which are the following: The tea itself is 
only too often second grade and full of dust and powder ; the water 
is not boiling when poured on for the infusion, or worse still, the tea is 
actually boiled. This, by the way, kills the natural flavor and draws out 
those properties which are commonly found injurious. Again a metal 
teapot is often used, when an earthenware pot would give better results. 
The Citizens' Wholesale Supply Co. pack a natural leaf tea which is 
without exception the cleanest and most delicious tea that I have ever 
tasted. To make it, allow a half teaspoon of tea for each full cup of 
fresh, vigorously boiling water. Scald an earthenware pot, measure in 
the tea, pour over the boiling water, and set aside for six minutes to 
infuse ; then pour liquid off the leaves so that it will not become too 
strong; the leaves themselves will have unrolled and show plainly that 
they are real tea leaves, of the first picking. 

Iced tea should be made stronger than when to be served hot, as 
the cracked ice dilutes it. For six servings use four teaspoons of Golden 
Rule Tea and a quart of boiling water. Let stand covered for eight min- 
utes, and then strain onto a half teaspoon of Golden Rule Cloves and 
a thinly sliced lemon. Sweeten to taste, and chill. Serve with a thin 
slice of fresh lemon in every glass. 

In serving afternoon tea, thinly sliced lemon or orange may be 
served in the tea with sugar. In this case no cream should be used; or 
two Golden Rule Cloves may be used to each cup of tea with sugar; or 
a thin slice of lemon and a Golden Rule Glace Cherry, or a cocktail 
cherry may be allowed to each cup. 

A good cup of coffee can seldom be obtained in the ordinary house- 
hold, in the first place because the coffee itself is often adulterated with 
chickory and other ingredients, and also because most women seem to 
think that coffee will make itself ! It is absolutely impossible to make 
a good cup of coffee with a utensil that is not spotlessly clean, for coffee 
has the power of taking up foreign substances. If you do not believe 
this, try putting some cooked coffee grounds and water in your cut glass 
vinegar cruet and see how they will remove the dirt. All utensils used 
for coffee-making should be thoroughly washed, scalded and allowed to 
air. Tlic coffee should never be allowed to stand in the pot from meal to 
meal, but should be poured off and utilized for some dessert or served 
cold. As Golden Rule Coffee is entirely free from adulterants it will 
"go farther" than most coffees on the market. At the same time sev- 
eral brands of exceptional quality are supplied at varying prices, all of 
which I consider far above similar grades. To get the best results, 
coffee should he purchased in the bean and ground just before using. 
To this end, The Citizens' Wholesale Supply Co. put out an exceptional 
coffee mill than can be obtained at a very reasonable price. If bought 
and ground in this way. all the coffee aroma is conserved. 

120 



cS? C^DrLjyo^ r"^ c r^r y 7 TW^TZJJTL^T 



There are three ways of making coffee. Probably the must familiar 
is the old-fashioned boiled coffee. Although this method can be used 
with fair success, more of the caffeine, which in excess is a nerve irri- 
tant, is drawn out, than when the coffee is percolated of put through 
the Golden Rule Coffee Maker. The coffee -maker will more than pay 
for itself in a few months as it calls for a third less coffee than ordi- 
narily used. Coffee may also be made according to the cold water 
method, but this likewise produces more caffeine than when the CofTe< 
Maker is used. 

BOILED COFFEE (For Six) 

Three ounces or six tablespoons Golden Rule Coffee mixed with 
three crushed egg shells. Pour over six cups of fresh, boiling water, let 
boil from three to five minutes, place where it will keep hot, add a 
tablespoon of cold water to settle. Pour off the grounds into a scalded 
coffee pot. 

COFFEE (By Cold Water Method) 

Three ounces or six tablespoons Golden Rule Coffee mixed with one 
cup cold water. Add five cups cold water, gradually bring to boiling 
point, and boil two minutes. Stand where it will keep warm and settle 
with a tablespoon of cold water. 

It must be borne in mind that coffee should be served with either 
cream or scalded milk ; or, if desired Golden Rule Evaporated Milk may 
be used. After dinner coffee should be made a little stronger as it is 
usually served without cream or sugar. 

In making iced coffee, add the sugar to the coffee while hot, mak- 
ing the coffee stronger than usual. Dilute with hot milk, chill and serve 
with whipped cream into which a little Golden Rule Marshmallow 
Creme has been beaten. 

One would often serve a cup of chocolate if there was time to make 
it. Golden Rule Cream and Chocolate is especially prepared for this 
purpose. It contains all that is necessary, including the sugar, to make 
delicious chocolate, and costs less than two cents a cup. To make it, 
put four level teaspoons of cream and chocolate into an ordinary sized 
tea cup, fill with boiling water, and let stand a minute or two, if con- 
venient. A spoonful of Golden Rule Marshmallow Creme adds a de- 
licious flavor. If desired, it may be iced, a drop of Golden Rule Vanilla 
be added to each serving, and a tablespoon of Golden Rule Marshmallow 
Whipped Creme with a few shredded Golden Rule Glace Cherries be 
served floating on each cup. This is particularly nice for summer enter- 
taining. 

Delicious fruit punches can be made of canned fruits. However, 
to make a smooth drink, the water and sugar should be boiled together 
for five minutes, and then cooled, and the drink should always be made 
so strong that it will stand diluting with cracked ice or ice water. If 
the fruit flavor is weak, a few drops of a suitable Golden Rule Fruit 
Extract will correct the defect. 

APRICOT PUNCH (To Serve Twenty) 

\ l / 2 quarts boiling water V/ 2 cups sugar 

1 can apricots Juice two lemons 

A few drops Golden Rule Orange Extract 
12] 



Boil together sugar and water; sift apricots, add the juice and turn 
into the sugar syrup. Cool, add lemon juice and orange extract and 
dilute as desired. 

MINT ADE (For One) 

One tablespoon sugar, dissolved in three-fourths cup boiling water. 
Cool, and add a tablespoon of Golden Rule Mint Sauce. A little orange 
juice will add body to this drink. 

RASPBERRY ADE (To Serve Ten) 

1 can raspberries 1 pint boiling water 

% cup lemon juice 1 cup sugar 

Ice water 

Boil together the sugar and water for ten minutes. Add the rasp- 
berries which should be quite liquid, and chill; turn in the lemon juice 
and dilute to desired strength. If impossible to obtain the raspberries, 
Golden Rule Raspberry or Loganberry Flavoring may be substituted. 
In this case, make the syrup as usual and flavor strongly with the ex- 
tract. Finish as directed. 

SPICED GRAPE JUICE 

For each pint of grape juice allow two Golden Rule Cloves and a 
half-inch stick of Golden Rule Cinnamon. Heat to scalding point, strain 
and serve either hot or cold. When hot, it is an excellent restorative 
in case of extreme fatigfue. 




After Dinner Coffee Tray, arranged for serving 
Golden Rule Coffee 



L22 



C^pCo^ rL-^T^r^ T^r 3 ! T^?TUJ TLjT 



Conservation Suggestions 

As no butter should be used in cookery, Oleomargarine may be sub- 
stituted for it, or cottonseed or corn oil may be used in two-thirds the 
quantity as for butter. 

To conserve wheat in cake and cookie making, use two-thirds Corn 
Flour and one-third Corn Starch, or Potato Flour, well sifted together, 
in making up the cake and cookies, etc., given in the Golden Rule Cook 
Book. 

In making pie crust use equal parts of barley flour and finely ground 
sifted rolled oats in place of wheat flour. 

In making muffins use those only containing a cereal substitute using 
in place of the wheat flour specified in the Golden Rule recipes, an equal 
quantity of corn flour. 

In making sauces, gravies, and the like, substitute corn starch, bar- 
ley flour or potato flour in place of wheat flour. 

In the making of cookies, desserts, cakes and the like reduce the 
amount of sugar one-third, or substitute brown sugar. 



WHEATLESS RECIPES 

FROM MRS. ALLEN'S BOOK ON WHEAT SUBSTITUTES 

By IDA C. BAILEY ALLEN 

(Small, Maynard & Co., Boston, Mass.) 



BARLEY, CORN AND OAT BREAD 

Sponge 

1 compressed yeast cake 3 tablespoonfuls corn syrup 

1 cupful tepid water 2 tablespoonfuls butter substitute 

3 cupfuls milk 2 cupfuls barley flour 

4 teaspoonfuls salt 2 cupfuls corn flour 

Dissolve the yeast in the tepid water, then add to the milk, which 
has been scalded and cooled, together with the other ingredients in the 
order given. Beat well and let stand in a warm place until very light. 

Completing the Bread 

Beat into the sponge three cupfuls of barley flour, one and one-half 
cupfuls of corn flour and one and a half cupfuls of finely ground rolled 
oats. Knead with one-half cupful of corn flour, shape into four loaves. 
place in well-oiled pans, let rise until doubled in bulk, and bake an hour 
in an oven at 350 degrees F. 

BUCKWHEAT-CORNMEAL MUFFINS 

1 cupful Buckwheat flour \ l /\ cupfuls milk 

1 cupful cornmeal 34 cupful molasses 

\ l /4 teaspoonfuls salt l /> tablespoonful butter subtsitute 

1 egg, well beaten 
Sift together the dry ingredients, then mix thoroughly the egg well 

123 



beaten, the milk, molasses and the butter substitute. Beat into the dry 
ingredients. Transfer to well-oiled muffin pans and bake thirty minutes 
in an oven at 250 degrees F. 

WHEATLESS BARLEY ROLLS (With Potatoes) 

2 cupfuls hot mashed potatoes \y 2 teaspoonfuls salt 

1 egg 1 tablespoonful butter substitute 

1 tablespoonful sugar, honey or 1 cupful tepid milk 

corn syrup 1 compressed yeast cake 

7 cupfuls barley flour 

Combine the potato, butter substitute, sweetening and salt. Dis- 
solve the yeast in the milk, stir it into the potato mixture, and beat in 
the flour. Knead well. Let rise until doubled in bulk cut down, roll 
into a sheet one-third inch in thickness, without kneading and cut into 
medium sized rounds. Brush over with butter, or a good margarine, 
melted, crease with a knife, and fold over into pocket shape. Let rise 
till doubled in bulk, and bake thirty-five minutes in an oven at 350 
decrees F. 

NUT AND RAISIN BREAD 
Y s cupful sugar or corn syrup y teaspoonful salt 

2 tablespoonfuls butter substitute 2 teaspoonfuls baking powder 
1 egg \ J / 2 cupfuls corn flour 

l / 2 cupful milk y 3 cupful chopped walnuts 

Ys cupful chopped raisins 
Beat the ingredients together in the order given. Transfer to a 
well oiled bread pan, and bake forty-five minutes in an oven at 375 
degrees F. 

ONE EGG BARLEY CAKE 

% cupful sugar y teaspoonful grated nutmeg 

% cupful butter substitute y teaspoonful salt 

1 egg 1 cup barley flour 

1 teaspoonful vanilla extract y cupful corn starch 

1 teaspoonful lemon extract \y> teaspoonfuls baking powder 

y> cupful milk 
Cream together the sugar and butter substitute, and beat in the 
flavoring and egg yolk. Sift together the dry ingredients and add them 
alternately with the milk. Then fold in the egg whites whipped stiff. 
Strew a few nut meats or shredded cocoanut over the top. Transfer 
to a well-oiled pan, and bake forty-five minutes in an oven at 350 
degrees F. 

CONSERVATION COTTAGE PUDDING 

3 tablespoonfuls butter substitute 3 teaspoonfuls baking powder 
y cupful sugar y teaspoonful salt 

1 egg y cupful milk 

\y> teaspoonfuls orange extract 2 tablespoonfuls water 

Cream together the sugar and shortening. Add the eggs well 
beaten and the extract. Sift together the dry ingredients, and add 
them alternately with the milk and water mixed, to the first mixture. 
Transfer to a well-oiled medium sized dripping pan, and bake thirty-five 
minute- in an oven at 350 degrees F. Serve with a lemon or other fruit 
-auce. 

124 



C^C^rLJ2JS^TMygj^5 T^^3J7TI=^T^ 



Ideas for Entertaining 



UNDOUBTEDLY the reason why more women do not entertain is 
because they do not realize that true hospitality lies in simplicity, 
as well as because they find "getting ready for company" a great 
task. The most perplexing problem is usually that which deals with the 
preparation of the meals or refreshments, as the case may be, what to 
have and how to serve it being an ever-present worry. However, if a 
few points are kept in mind, any small affair need not overtax. 

Be yourself, do not attempt things too elaborate. 

Have all housecleaning done the day beforehand. 

Make the refreshments simple and, if there is no maid in attend- 
ance, choose foods that can be prepared before hand and that will not 
deteriorate on standing. 

Do not have any last-minute cookery. 

If there is no waitress, do not apologize for waiting on table your- 
self, but do it gracefully, serving as many things from the table as pos- 
sible. A friend can assist you, or in case it is an affair with the children 
at the table, let the boys and girls act as waiters. 

The following menus are adapted for service with or without a 
maid, and all unusual recipes can be found in this book. 

TWO MENUS FOR AFTERNOON TEAS 

Chicken Sandwiches Ginger and Cream Cheese Sandwiches 
Tiny Cream Puffs Afternoon Tea 

vSalted Nuts 

II. 
Olive and Cream Cheese Sand- Celery and Mayonnaise Sand- 
wiches wiches 
Apricot Ice Cream Marguerites 
Afternoon Tea Home-Made Candies 

TWO MENUS FOR LITTLE EVENING PARTIES 

Pineapple Sherbet Spice Cake with Marshmallow Whipped Cream 

Hot Golden Rule Coffee Salted Almonds 

II. 

Canned Peach and Nut Salad Cream Cheese and Nut Sandwiches 

Hot Coffee Salted Nuts 

1 1 nine Made Candies 

125 



MENU FOR CHAFING DISH SUPPER 

Golden Rule Fruit Cup 

Creamed Crab Meat in Croustades 

Olives 

Chocolate Bavarian Cream Nut Wafers 

Golden Rule Coffee 

MENU FOR CHRISTMAS DINNER 

Crab Flake Cocktail 

Tomato Bouillon Crackers 

Celery Olives 

Roast Turkey or Goose Gravy Stuffing 

Mashed Potatoes Canned String Beans Kernelled Corn 

Vegetable Macedoine Salad 
Marshmallow Ice Cream and Little Fruit Cakes or Steamed Pudding 

with Hard Sauce 

Home Made Candies Golden Rule Nuts 

Coffee Cheese Sticks 

MENU FOR THANKSGIVING 

Julienne Soup Crackers 

Roast Chicken or Chicken Pie 

Mashed Potatoes Canned Spinach (Creamed) Corn Pudding 

Asparagus Vinigrette 
Pumpkin Pie Plain Ice Cream 

Golden Rule Coffee Cheese Sticks 

Nome Made Candies Golden Rule Nuts 



Although it is a comparatively easy matter to "get ready for com- 
pany," when it is expected, an embarrassing situation often results when 
guests arrive for "pot luck," as there is often just enough for the family 
and, in spite of the fact that it is charming and correct to invite friends 
to share the meal just as it is, there are times when a few additions arc 
really necessary. 

The thinking housewife will be prepared for such contingencies by 
a well-stocked emergency shelf. This need not necessarily be a shelf, 
but any place in the house where a few extra supplies can be kept that 
will be easily converted into attractive dishes. A list suitable for such 
general purposes includes a can of tomato soup, a bottle of Golden Rule 

126 



CqfS Ca^ TT_Jn~^0 r^T^I T^^>TU7n-yiTm 



Beef Extract, a bottle of clam bouillon, a can of asparagus, and one 
each kernelled corn, peas and spinach, as well as tuna fish, chicken and 
dines; a bottle of Golden Rule Salad Dressing, some Golden Rule 
( Hive ( >il and Golden Rule Nut Meats which the housewife lias prepared, 
some canned fruits, Golden Rule Evaporated Milk, a can of Golden Rule 
Cream and Chocolate, a jar of (.olden Rule Marshmallow Creme and 
-^ome Golden Rule Olives. 

With materials of this kind at hand, the simplest meal can be 
dressed up for the most fastidious guest. 




12: 



MEMORANDA 



128 



co^ rL-jrr^^Tm ir^T e ^^^>xu7T2=dir^ 




Display Room -Local Department 



^O our friends within the city of Columbus, we wish to say 
that the handsome Display Rooms of our Local Depart- 
ment are for your use. Courteous attendants are willing 
and anxious to show you the finest of products gathered 
from the four quarters of the globe; or, at a time to suit 
your convenience, a demonstrator will call at your home. 
If you need any article at any time, even one 
small single item, Telephone 

Ohio State 8101 or 8102 
Bell, Main 316 or 317 

and it will be delivered at once. We want 
you to feel that we are at your service, and 
are glad to be able to serve you. 
Very respectfully, 

The Citizens' Wholesale Supply Co. 




GOLDEN 

RULE 

FLAVORINGS 



were given 



The Gold 
Medal 






at the 

Panama-Pacific 

International Exposition 

San Francisco, 1915 

By an International 
Jury of Experts 



LIBRARY OF CONGRESS 
014 486 292 20 



