
;.^ft» 






ALBERT R. MANN LIBRARY 
Cornell University 

Gift of 
Thomas Bass 








^,.--^3ii;^-■ —--- -- , 




^ 




From Home Bakings, by Edna Evans 
San Francisco, 1912. 





CORNELL UNIVERSITY LIBRARY 




924 086 7 



4 437 




Cornell University 
Library 



The original of tliis book is in 
tine Cornell University Library. 

There are no known copyright restrictions in 
the United States on the use of the text. 



http://www.archive.org/details/cu31924086714437 



CAEOLINE KING'S COOK BOOK 




Cinnamon Buns 



French Brioche 




Salad Sticks 



Swedish Coffee Braid 




Parker House Rolls 



Wheat Bread 



Various Breads Made upon One Foundation Formula 
FronHspiece 



CAROLINE KING'S 

COOK BOOK 

FOUNDATION PRINCIPLES OP 
GOOD COOKERY. WITH RECIPES 



BY 
CAROLINE B. KING 

DOUESTIC SCIENCE LECTTTREB FOB THE 

UNIVERSITY EXTENSION SOCIETY 

OF PHILADELPHIA 



ILLUSTRATED FROM PHOTOGRAPHS 




BOSTON 

LITTLE, BROWN, AND COMPANY 

1918 



iiopy right, 1918, 
By Little, Bbown, and Company. 



All rights reserved 
Published April, 1918 



Set up and dectrotyped by J. S. v^usli'mg Co., Norwood, Mass., U.S.A. 
Pressworic by S. J. ParkhiU & Co., Boston, Mass., U.S.A. 



INTRODUCTORY NOTE 

Cookery is just as much a science as arithmetic 
or geometry, and is based on foundations and con- 
trolled by principles quite as well defined, quite as 
fixed as those of any other science. There are certain 
basic rules which underUe the preparation of our foods 
just as there are basic rules forming the groundwork 
of all the sciences and arts, and when these are 
mastered, any dish or combination of food materials 
may be undertaken fearlessly and confidently. 

When the inexperienced housewife opens a book 
on the subject of cookery, she is often appalled at 
the number of recipes which meet her gaze. Twenty- 
five to fifty pages are devoted to the making of 
bread, rolls, and other yeast-leavened products, and 
as many more to cake; pastry occupies another 
whole section; meats fill chapters; vegetables 
require interminable explanations, and so on through- 
out the whole gamut of food suppUes, until in very 
weariness of spirit and confusion of her mental facul- 
ties she closes the book and regales her family with 
those trite but quickly prepared dishes whose prep- 



INTRODUCTORY NOTE 

aration require little thought, effort, or attention 
to detail. 

Or, perhaps she has attended a school which 
includes domestic science in its curriculum, and has 
learned something of the chemical constituents of 
foods, the proteins, carbohydrates, and fats. She 
has hazy memories of lessons on balanced rations 
and calories, and so attempts to put to use what 
portion of this scientific knowledge she can recall. 
But the result is equally futile. With constantly 
advancing prices and incomes remaining stationary, 
it is a difficult matter to select foods which contain 
just the exact proportions of starches, sugar, fat, 
and protein required to form a perfectly balanced 
menu. 

She therefore abandons the search, and purchases 
those food products which will supply the greatest 
amount of nutriment at the smallest possible outlay, 
and her menus begin to show a marked resemblance 
to each other. The family continues to eat the same 
boiled or baked or fried meats — the ones that 
are the easiest to prepare, the same cakes and 
puddings, salads and vegetables, until one meal so 
nearly resembles another that it is difficult to deter- 
mine whether one is eating to-day's or last week's 
dinner. 

The housewife would Uke very much to know how 
to make some of the good things enimierated in her 
cookery bodks, how to use some scientific knowledge 
regarding the selection and preparation of food prod- 

vi 



INTRODUCTORY NOTE 

ucts, but the complexity of the subject as it is 
presented to her, and a multiphcity of other duties 
awaiting her attention, discourage any attempt on 
her part to begin the study of the subject. 

But if one will only go about the matter in the 
proper way, it is never too late to learn to cook. No 
one can hope to master all of the recipes in the thou- 
sand or more cookery books which are offered for 
sale, if one attempts to learn each one of them 
separately and distinctly, but if the foundation princi- 
ples which govern all cookery are studied and thor- 
oughly comprehended, any dish that one desires to 
make will become a matter quite easy to accomplish. 

Cookery, exactly like geography or arithmetic or 
rhetoric, may be classified into a few general divisions. 
Each of these divisions may again be divided into 
subclasses, and for each of these subclasses there is a 
foundation recipe, or a general principle upon which 
every dish which belongs in that particular group is 
built. 

Let us take the question of breads, for instance. 
The French rusks and buns and coffee cakes that 
look so tempting in the windows of the fancy bakery, 
with their shining brown surfaces half concealed by 
a clear sugar icing, or a sprinkUng of nuts or fruit, 
are all formed upon the foundation recipe which any 
good housewife who can produce a loaf of sweet Ught 
bread has iu her possession. The delicate souffle, 
so airy and fluffy that it hterally melts in your mouth, 
is but another variation of the white sauce with 

vii 



INTRODUCTORY NOTE 

which you dress your caiiliflower for dinner. The 
deUcious sauce ravigote which charms you with its 
daintiness at some fashionable cafe, is only a mayon- 
naise dressing in disguise ; the rich and savory soup, 
clear and stimulating, is merely brown stock devel- 
oped in a very simple manner. 

And so one might continue throughout the entire 
list of edibles described in the cookery books. No 
matter how complex or elaborate they may sound, 
they are all as easy of comprehension as two times 
two, when the foundation principles and how to 
correctly apply them have been learned. 

For the rules must be put into practical operation 
in order to obtain the desired results. Merely to 
know them will not enable one to become a master 
cook, but neither can one become a musician by 
simply mastering the names of the piano keys, 
though that knowledge must be gained before one 
is able to play the simplest composition. 

Therefore, but comparatively few actual recipes 
will be found in the pages of this book. It is not 
the writer's intention to emulate the authors of 
other voliunes on the subject of cookery, who have 
already supphed so many excellent collections of 
recipes. Instead, I hope to give you foundation 
formulae and rules which will enable you to adapt 
any recipe that you may wish to use, or to go still 
further and invent distinctive dishes of your own. 
Originality is one of the most important adjuncts to 
good cookery and there is no reason why the house- 

viii 



INTRODUCTORY NOTE 

wife should not exercise or develop this faculty as 
well as an artist or an author. 
I With a simple and easily managed rule for a 
sauce or a salad dressing, the woman with a nice sense 
of fitness wiU be able to produce at short notice a 
dish that heretofore would have appeared to her 
only possible for a chef to have made. 

Given one good, inexpensive cake formula and 
rules for adapting it, and the woman possessed of 
originahty will turn out a dozen varieties of this 
popular sweet, each more delicious, Ught, and tender 
than the last. 

And so on throughout the range of cookery. 
Everything is possible to the housewife who has 
been well grounded in the foundation and principles, 
and has also learned to use them correctly. The 
most elaborate dish, as will be shown in this volume, 
is often built upon the slenderest and simplest base. 

It is my purpose, therefore, to supply a systematic 
knowledge of the manner in which foods are prepared 
for the table, rather than categorical information on 
the subject ; to make this volume of practical worth 
to the woman whose duties are multifold, rather 
than a scientific analysis of food constituents and 
calorific values ; to enable the housewife of little 
experience to learn the rudiments of cookery, and to 
build upon a solid and comprehensive foundation a 
firm understanding of the entire subject. 

Caeoline B. King. 



IX 



Through the courtesy of the editors of 
Good Housekeeping, The Country Gentle- 
man, The Woman's Magazine, and The 
Ladies' Home Journal, various recipes 
which have appeared in those magazines 
are republished in this volume. 

Caroline B. King. 



XI 



GENERAL OUTLINE 



PART I. FOOD PRODUCTS 





' 




Dough 




Flour Mixtures 


Batter 
Pastry 




f Made with Meat 
Soups 

I Made without Meat 










White 


Classified by 
Foundation Formulse 


Sauces 


Savory 
Sweet 


Brown 
, Drawn Butter 




„ , , ^ . f Uncooked 
Salad Dressings 

I Cooked 




^ , ^ . f Uncooked 
Cake Icings 

I Cooked 






f Plain 





I 



Omelets 



I French 



Classified by Principle 



f Tender, Fine-grained Meats 

Meats < Tough, Coarse-grained, 

I Juicy Meats 

f Roots and Bulbs 
Vegetables \ 



Desserts 



XUl 



I Green 
Cold 
Hot 



GENERAL OUTLINE 



PART II. PROCESSES 



Methods of Cookery 



Methods of Prepaxation 
of Food Materials 



Boiling 



Roasting 



Frying 



Simmering 
Stewing 
Braising 
, Steaming 
Baking 

Toasting 
Broiling 
Planking 
Parching 
Saut^rng 
Deep Prying 
Pan Broiling 
Conservation of Fruits and Vegetables 
Mixing 
Rolling 
Stirring 
Beating 
Kneading 

Egging and Crumbing 
Molding 

' With Pastry Bag 
With Vegetables 
With Fruits, Nuts, or 

Candies 
With Flowers 
With Paper Prills, Col- 
, lars. Rosettes, etc. 



Methods of 
Garnishing 



JQV 



CONTENTS 

Introductobt Note vii 

PART I 

FOOD PRODUCTS 

I Flour and Yeast Mixtttbes .... 3 

II Quick-Raising Doughs 16 

III Cake Mixtures 34 

IV Pastry 45 

V Soups 59 

VI Sauces 74 

VII Salad Dressings 87 

VIII Cake Icings and Fillings .... 102 

IX Omelets ' 115 

X Food Products Classified by Principle . 123 

XI The Preparation op Vegetables . . . 140 

XII Debbebts 153 

XIII Hot Desserts 174 

XIV Souffles 187 

PART II 

PROCESSES 

XV Processeb 197 

XVI Roasting 210 

XVII Baking 217 

XV 



CONTENTS 

OHAPTBB FAOD 

XVIII Frying 223 

XIX The Conservation op Fruits and Vegetables 231 

XX Preserving and Jam Making .... 238 

XXI Methods of Preparing Food Materials . 248 

XXII Methods op Garnishing and Decorating . 256 

Index 263 



XVI 



LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS 

Cinnamon Buns, French Brioche, Salad Sticks, Swedish 
Coffee Braid, Parker House Rolls, Wheat Bread Frontispiece 

FACING FAGB 

Mixing the Cake Batter 40 

Marshmallow Gingerbread and Cup Cakes ... 40 

Strawberry Meringue Cake 40 

Croquettes Made from White Sauce Foundation . . 76 

Salad h la Caroline 100 

Potato Salad with Beets 100 

Making an Omelet 118 

Caramel Bread Pudding 176 

Dresden Pudding 176 

Baked Apples 176 

Method of Planking Steak 214 

Potato Salad Garnished with Small Pickles, Pimentos and 

Nuts 258 

The Pastry Bag and Tubes are Useful in Garnishing . . 258 



xvu 



PART I 
FOOD PRODUCTS 



CAROLINE KING'S COOK BOOK 



CHAPTER I 

FLOUR AND YEAST MIXTURES 

Foundation — Floue, Liquid, Leavening, Salt, 
Shoktening 

Bread 
RoUs 
Busks 

Coffee Cakes 
Cinnamon Buns 
Election Cakes 
English Muf&ns 
. Brioclie 



Flour Mixtures 
(See General 
Outline) 



Dough 



Raised with Yeast 



Batter 



Raised -with 
Baking Powder 
or Soda 



f Thin 



■ Biscuits 
Dumplings 
Shortcake 
Cheese Puflfs 
Cookies 
Doughnuts 
CruUers 
Scones 



\ Thick 



r Plain 
Pastry { Flaky 
[PuflE 



. Chou Paste 



CAROLINE KING'S COOK BOOK 

, Doughs 

All floiir mixtures, whether they form the 
plainest loaf of bread or the most elaborate and 
costly cake, or morsel of French pastry, have the 
same f oimdation. It is composed of four ingredients : 
floiir, liquid, leavening, and shortening. These 
form the base of all products made of flour. In 
some cases the leavening is omitted, and again the 
shortening is eliminated, but these are the exceptions 
which prove the rule, so we may take it for granted 
when a loaf of bread or a pan of biscuits or a cake 
or pie is to be made that it will contain these four 
articles. It is the other ingredients which are 
combined with these foiir that determine to which 
class or type the finished product belongs, for all 
flour mixtures, whether simple or complex, belong 
to one of the following four types : Dough, Batter, 
Pastry, or Chou Paste. 

In this classification, dough is of the first impor- 
tance, for it is the foundation of every variety of 
bread, roll, rusk, biscuit, shortcake, cruller, or cookie 
that has yet been invented. Dough is the founda- 
tion of the plain, substantial wholesome loaf of wheat 
bread, as it is also the foundation of the luscious 
shortcake or the crumbly cruller. 

Dough itself is again divided into sub-classes, 
and of these there are two, — those doughs which 
are leavened or raised with yeast, and those which 
depend Upon the carbon dioxide supplied by baking 

4 



FLOUE AND YEAST MIXTURES 

powder or soda for their lightness and delicate 
texture. ■'"" 

Yeast-raised dough may be plain or sweet, or 
it may he both, for from the plain dough which 
forms the loaf of good, light bread, or the pan 
of simple raised biscuits that almost every house- 
wife is able to compose, any of the coffee cakes, 
cinnamon buns, French brioche, rusks, or delicious 
tea cakes that one can think of or desire may be 
evolved. 

The foundation formula for baking-powder bis- 
cuits may also be developed into a number of other 
good things; dumplings, shortcake, scones, cheese 
puffs, cinnamon puffs, fruit rolls, and half a dozen 
more tempting and wholesome products are possible 
when one has learned to make a satisfactory biscuit 
dough. 

Good bread dough may be made without salt, 
sugar, or shortening, but the addition of these in- 
gredients insures a more palatable result. A loaf 
of bread composed of flour, water, and yeast, if it 
were carefully made and baked, would be light and 
crisp, but it would not appeal strongly to the palate. 
We have so accustomed ourselves to bread which is 
slightly sweet and salt, that those qualities are now 
a necessity to us, and, though but slightly apparent 
in the finished loaf, they would be greatly missed if 
not present. 

The following formula will produce two loaves of 
sweet, wholesome bread : 

5 



CAROLINE KING'S COOK BOOK 

Foundation Fonnula 

1 cup milk 1 tablespoon shortening 

1 cup water 5 cups flour 

1 teaspoon salt J yeast cake 

1 tablespoon sugar 

Method of Preparation 

Scald the milk and water together and add to 
the mixture a tablespoon of shortening, a tablespoon 
of sugar, and a teaspoon of salt ; cool till lukewarm. 
Meantime, dissolve the yeast in four tablespoons 
of tepid water and sprinkle a very little sugar over 
it. The sugar is valuable, as it helps the yeast 
plant to grow. When the yeast has dissolved and 
the liquid becomes filled with little air bubbles, add 
it to the cooled milk and water mixtm-e with two 
cups of sifted flour, and beat all vigorously. Now 
add more flour, beating constantly, until the mixture 
is stiff enough to be handled easily. Turn it out on 
a floured board and knead well for fifteen minutes 
or until the dough is soft and pliable and tiny air 
bubbles begin to appear during the kneading process. 

Not all of the five cups of floiu* may be required 
in this work, or in the case of some varieties of flour, 
the process may require a little more than this 
amount. It is not possible to give the exact quan- 
tity, as flours vary greatly. Add flour gradually, 
however, to prevent too much being used. 
' When the kneading process is finished, make the 
dough into a large ball and place in a greased bowl. 

6 



FLOUR AND YEAST MIXTURES 

Rub t\e surface with a little melted butter, lard, 
or otheV shortening and cover with a clean cloth. 
Stand in a moderately warm place away from all 
draughts,y and allow the little yeast organisms to 
attend to their work of leavening the mass of dough. 

In from four to five hours the ball of dough should 
have doubled its original size and have become light 
and spongy. If one is using a gas range, it is a very 
good plan to Ught the oven burners of the range for 
five minutes while kneading the dough, then to turn 
them off and place the bowl in the oven. It will be 
just warm enough to stimulate the yeast plant to 
growth and wiU keep the dough from draughts. 

"When the dough is Ught, it will be quite porous 
and spongy, and if pressed with the fingers will 
feel elastic. Now turn it out on the floured board 
again, and after rubbing the hands with a little 
lard to prevent the dough from sticking, knead it 
lightly, adding a Uttle more floiu" if necessary. 
With a sharp knife, cut the dough into two sections 
and form into loaves, brush over with a little melted 
lard, using a small brush for the purpose ; place in 
well-greased pans and stand in a warm place until 
light. In from thirty to forty minutes the loaves 
should be ready for the oven. Bread must be put 
in a hot oven to bake. 

Made by this formula, two loaves will bake per- 
fectly in forty minutes. The first ten minutes of 
this time they should merely rise and perhaps begin 
to show a little brown in spots ; the second period 

7 



CAROLINE KING'S COOK BOOK 

of ten minutes should see them becoming a delicate 
brown all over their surface and ceasing to rise, 
the third period they should finish browning, and 
during the fourth they should shrink slightly from 
the pans. 

After the first ten minutes the oven heat should 
be decreased sUghtly, and as the baking continues 
it may be lessened still more. The reason for the 
hotter oven at first is that the growth of the yeast 
plant must be checked early in the baking, or the 
loaf wiU become too porous, and this can be ac- 
complished only by a heat great enough to pene- 
trate to the very center of the loaf. 

When the baking is completed, the loaves will 
give forth a hoUow sound when tapped, and will be 
tmiformly brown all over their surface. For a rich, 
tender crust they should be rubbed with a little 
butter and allowed to cool without being wrapped or 
covered in any way. If whole-wheat or Graham 
bread is desired, substitute either of these flours 
for one half the quantity of white flom". 

Bread making is a very simple process, and after 
it has been practiced a few times, and a perfect loaf 
is produced, the housewife may begin to experiment 
with the development of her foundation formiila, 
for it is capable of many variations. 

Suppose, for instance, a pan of light rolls for sup- 
per or breakfast is desired. Nothing could be more 
easy. Simply divide the bread dough, when it is 
ready for the second kneading, into two parts, 

8 



FLOUR AND YEAST MIXTURES 

making one into a loaf, and reserving the other for 
the rolls. To the second portion add a tablespoon 
of melted butter, working it in very thoroughly. 
Make the dough into a loaf, place it in a greased 
bowl, and ' stand aside in a moderately warm place 
where it will rise very gradually. An hour before 
supper knead the dough again and cut into bits 
the size of walnuts. Make these into neat little 
biscuits and place close together in a well-greased 
pan. Stand in a warm sheltered spot and allow 
the rolls to become very Ught. Then bake in a 
hot oven for fifteen minutes. Rub lightly with 
butter when finished and serve immediately. 

If the rolls are wanted for breakfast, keep the 
dough in a cool, but not a cold, place during the 
day, pushing it down with the tips of the fingers if 
it becomes light before it is required. Then, just 
before you retire, form it into rolls and brush over 
with melted butter. Stand in a cool place over- 
night and in the morning bake in a hot oven. 

Parker House Rolls. With a few changes this 
same dough may be used in making Parker House 
rolls, bread sticks, salad rolls, and other breads which 
are unsweetened, or only slightly sweetened. To 
the dough as described for plain rolls, add two table- 
spoons of sugar, a second tablespoon of melted butter, 
and the well-beaten white of one egg. Knead well, 
and stand aside to become light and spongy. Then 
form into such shapes as are desired. The Parker 
House rolls are made by rolling the dough into a 

9 



CAEOLINE KING'S COOK BOOK 

sheet half an inch thick. Cut with a biscuit cutter, 
brush each'disk with'melted butter, and fold together, 
pressing slightly to keep in shape. Place the folded 
rolls close together in a well-greased pan, stand in a 
warm place to rise, then bake and finish as in the 
preceding rule. 

Salad Rolls are merely very small biscuits cut 
from a sheet of dough prepared as for Parker House 
rolls, brushed over with butter, and when light baked 
in a hot oven./ They are served warm or cold. 
For afternoon tea, picnics, or luncheons, they are split 
and spread with butter and marmalade or a meat 
filhng, then put together once more. 

Bread Sticks are made from strips of the dough 
cut and rolled between the palms of the hands till 
of the thickness of a lead pencil. The sticks are 
then set to rise and when light are baked in the usual 
manner. 

Now let us see by what proceeding the foundation 
dough is transformed into coffee cake, cinnamon bun, 
election cake, brioche, and the other interesting and 
dehcious breads which appear so tempting in the 
bake shop. The method is much the same, as you 
will discover. The foundation formula for bread 
dough is followed and is used all or in part for the 
fancy breads which have been selected for the 
experiment. 

When the dough is ready for the second kneading, 
it is divided into two parts as before, one part to 
be reserved for the sweet rolls, cinnamon buns, or 

10 



FLOUR AND YEAST MIXTURES 

whatever is to be made. To this portion is added 
half a cup of sugar, two tablespoons of melted butter, 
and one or two well-beaten eggs, also enough flour to 
make the dough of the proper consistency for knead- 
ing. If all of the dough is to be utihzed in making 
the sweet bread, the amount of sugar and butter 
should be doubled, but one additional egg will be 
sufficient, or if a plainer rusk is wished, two eggs 
will be ample for their making. 

After the sugar, butter, and eggs are well incor- 
porated with the dough, it must be kneaded well, 
made into a loaf, turned into a greased bowl, and 
placed in a moderately warm spot to become fight. 
Care should be taken not to add any more flour than 
is actually necessary for kneading, as the dough 
will not rise well if too compact, neither will the 
finished product be as light and tender as is desired. 
When the sweetened dough has doubled its bulk, 
make it into the desired form, set to rise once more, 
and then bake after the manner described for bread. 

Swedish Coffee Braid is a very attractive bread. 
It is one of the many uses to which the sweetened 
and raised dough may be put. Divide the dough 
into three equal parts and roll these between the 
palms of the hands until they are about two inches 
thick and eighteen inches long. Place the strands 
together at one end, and plait them in a braid. 
Bring the two ends together, forming a circle, and 
press gently to hold them in place. Arrange the 
braid in a greased pan and stand in a wann place 

11 



CAEOLINE KING'S COOK BOOK 

to become very light. Just before baking, brush 
the dough with softened butter and sprinkle with 
cinnamon, granulated sugar, and chopped nuts, 
using about a tablespoon each of the sugar and 
nuts, with^ a teaspoon of cinnamon. When baked, 
the braid may be glazed with a tablespoon of sugar 
dissolved in two tablespoons of milk or thin cream, 
and a few more nuts may be sprinkled over the 
surface. Place the braid in the oven for a few mo- 
ments to dry the glaze. A small paint brush is an 
excellent mediiun for applying the sugar and milk 
dressing. 

Cinnamon Buns are very popular, but are not 
often made at home, most housewives being of the 
opinion that they are rather difficult to manage. 
By using the same sweetened dough as described 
in the previous paragraph, they are easily made. 
Roll the dough, when light enough for making into 
rolls, into a sheet half an inch thick. Brush it over 
with melted butter, and sprinkle with brown sugar, 
powdered cinnamon, and a few currants. Now roll 
up tightly as you would a piece of cloth, and with 
a sharp knife cut it in sUces about an inch and a 
half thick. Place these slices upright in a greased 
pan and stand in a warm place to rise. When very 
light, bake as usual. The cinnamon rolls may also 
be glazed with the sugar and milk solution when 
taken from the oven. If a very sticky bun is de- 
sired, the pan, after being greased, may be sprinkled 
rather thickly with brown sugar. Care must be 

12 



FLOUR AND YEAST MIXTURES 

taken in baking the buns, if this plan is followed, 
for the brown sugar will be very apt to burn. Keep 
the oven well under control at all times. 

Rusks are simply little buns formed of the pre- 
pared dough made into small balls, raised, baked, 
and brushed with the glaze or with confectioner's 
icing, which is made by moistening fine confec- 
tioner's sugar with as much water as it will absorb, 
and still remain clear and transparent. 

Brioche and Election Cake require a dough that 
is sUghtly richer than that described for the sweet- 
ened breads just given. An additional tablespoon 
each of butter and sugar and perhaps another egg, 
if eggs are plentiful, should be used in their making. 

Brioche are the delicious little French Coffee Cakes 
which are often served with afternoon tea. Prepare 
the dough and allow it to become very light. Then 
roll in a thin sheet, spread very lightly with softened 
butter, and fold in three, pressing lightly with the 
rolling pin. Now cut in strips about an inch wide 
and four inches long. Take these strips between 
the thumb and forefinger of each hand and twist 
them gently in opposite directions. Then bring 
the ends together in a circle, press together, and 
place in a well-greased pan, about two inches from 
each other. Let rise, then bake a delicate brown. 
Brush over with confectioner's icing and dry in a 
cool oven. 

Election Cake requires the addition of a cup of 
seeded and chopped raisins and half a cup of thinly 

13 



CAROLINE KING'S COOK BOOK 

sliced citron or orange peel, with one fourth teaspoon 
each of ground cinnamon and mace. It is made 
into a loaf, allowed to rise for an hour or a little 
longer, then baked in a moderate oven from forty- 
five to sixty minutes, according to the size of the 
loaf. When finished, ice with the confectioner's 
icing and decorate with candied cherries, citron, 
or nuts. 

Baba Cakes are made of the brioche dough and 
are usually served for dessert. The dough is made 
into balls and placed in deep muffin pans, then al- 
lowed to rise as usual. When baked, the cakes are 
taken from the pans and a portion of the center of 
each is removed. The cavity is filled with preserves 
and the cakes served with a sweet sauce. 

Hot Cross Buns are also made of the brioche cake 
mixture. Simply add to the dough half a cup of 
chopped seeded raisins or cleaned currants, together 
with one foiu-th teaspoon of ground mace and cin- 
namon. Make into buns as usual, and stand in a 
warm place to rise. When light, chp a cross on each 
with a pair of shears, then bake, and when finished 
brush with the milk and sugar glaze. Fill the crosses 
with the confectioner's sugar icing and dry in a 
cool oven. 

There are just a few simple rules to remember 
when making the bread dough itself, or any of its 
variations. The yeast must be dissolved in water 
that is neither too warm nor too cold, as the one 
will check its growth and the other will chill it ; nor 

14 



FLOUR AND YEAST MIXTUEES 

must the dough be allowed to become either too 
warm or too cool, for the same reasons. A tem- 
perature of from 75° F. to 80° F. will produce the 
proper results. 

When fancy breads are under way, the dough 
will require somewhat longer to become light than 
the foundation dough, owing to the fact that .sugar, 
shortening, and other ingredients have been added 
to it. Also — and this is very important — no more 
flour than is necessary to permit one to handle the 
dough should be added to it, for a dough which is 
too stiff will not produce tender, light results. And 
be quite sure always that your dough is sufl&ciently 
light before putting it in the oven. 

By following these few precautions the least ex- 
perienced of housewives may attempt, and suc- 
cessfully, the making of any of the fancy tea cakes, 
buns, or nut breads that she desires. Remember 
the foundation formula does not change ; it is only 
in the sweetening, shortening, and number of eggs 
that the recipes differ. 



15 



CHAPTER II 

QUICK-RAISING DOUGHS 



Dough Raised with Baking 
Powder or Soda 



Biscuits 

Dumplings 

Cheese Puffs 

Cinnamon Puffs 

Shortcakes 

Cookies 

Doughnuts 

Crullers 

Scones 



There is another type of dough which is just as 
adaptable to variety as that raised with yeast, and 
as this is more convenient, — being quickly mixed, 
raised, and baked, — it is perhaps a more popvilar 
form than the first. 

This second type, while containing the four in- 
gredients which form the first, viz. : flour, liquid, 
shortening, and leavening, is raised with baking 
powder or soda. The former is used with sweet 
milk, the latter with buttermilk or sour milk. Both 
of these leavening agents act quickly, and products 
leavened by them are finished in a short period of 
time. 

16 



QUICK-RAISING DOUGHS 

A foundation formula for this type of dough is 
also available, and is capable of many variations. 
In using sweet milk, the following formula is used : 



Foundation Formula 

2 cups flour 2 rounding tablespoons 
4 level teaspoons shortening 

baking powder 1 cup milk or milk 
I teaspoon salt and water mixed 



Method of Preparation 

Sift together the flour, salt, and baking powder, 
then with the tips of the fingers rub in the shorten- 
ing until the mixture resembles coarse meal. Now 
pour in the liquid, and with a spatula or broad- 
bladed knife make the mixture into a soft dough. 
Tiim out on a floured board and knead very lightly 
for a moment. Remember heavy-handedness may 
ruin the dough, so touch it quickly and deftly as you 
work it into shape. The kneading should be more 
in the nature of patting or coaxing the dough than 
poimding or squeezing. Now roll the dough half 
an inch thick and cut it into rounds with a biscuit 
cutter. Dip a small paint brush into sweet milk 
and brush the biscuits hghtly with it, then bake in 
a very hot oven for twelve to fifteen minutes. 

If sour milk is used, the following formula will be 
used: 

17 



CAEOLINE KING S COOK BOOK 



Foundation Formula 

2 cups flour i teaspoon salt 

1 teaspoon baking powder 2 tablespoons shortening 

i teaspoon soda 1 cup sour or buttermilk 



Method of Preparation 

Sift the dry ingredients together, rub in the 
shortening, and proceed as in the preceding recipe. 
Never add the soda to the sour milk, as by such a 
process the carbon dioxide is released too soon and 
the biscuits will be less light. Do not use more 
than the amount given, or the dough will be speckled 
and dark colored. It will also taste unpleasantly 
of the soda. 

Either of the above formulae may be used in mak- 
ing any of the products which follow. 

Emergency Biscuits are made by simply dropping 
the soft dough before kneading or rolling into greased 
muffin pans and baking it in a hot oven for ten to 
twelve minutes. This is a very quick and excellent 
breakfast bread, and it will make a satisfactory 
limcheon dessert served with maple syrup or mar- 
malade. 

Dumplings. Roll the dough between the palm 
into little balls about the size of walnuts, drop into 
boiling gravy or water. Cover closely and cook 
from ten to fifteen minutes. Serve with stews, 
fricassees, and other meat dishes. Dumplings may 
be steamed also. They should be placed on a greased 

18 



QUICK-BAISING DOUGHS 

plate in a steamer, covered well, and steamed for 
twenty minutes. 

Cheese Puffs. Roll the dough very thin, and 
sprinkle it with grated cheese and paprika, press 
lightly with the rolling pin, and fold so that the cheese 
is enveloped in the dough. Cut in strips an inch 
wide and four inches long and sprinkle a very little 
cheese and paprika on the surface. Place in a 
greased pan and bake till brown and puffy. Serve 
with salad or for luncheon. 

Cinnamon Puffs. Roll the dough in a thin 
sheet, brush with melted butter, and sprinkle with 
sugar mixed with cinnamon. Roll up tightly and 
cut in inch lengths. Place in an upright position 
in a greased pan and bake in a hot oven. 

Jelly Puffs. Substitute jelly or jam for the 
butter, cinnamon, and sugar in the puffs and pro- 
ceed as before. 

Nut Puffs. . Make in the same manner, using 
chopped nuts and sugar in place of the jelly or jam. 

Turnovers. Roll the dough very thin, and cut 
it in squares. Place a spoonful of jam on each 
square, wet the edges, and fold over diagonally. 
Press the edges together and brush over with milk. 
Bake in a hot oven. 

Shortcake. Roll the dough about half an inch 
thick. Cut in two rounds to fit a pie pan and place 
one over the other, spreading the under layer with 
softened butter. Bake twenty minutes in a hot 
oven. Remove from the pans, split, and butter 

19 



CAROLINE KING'S COOK BOOK 

well. Spread the lower layer with crushed straw- 
berries which have been well sweetened. Place the 
second layer over the berries and cover it also with 
fruit. Top with whipped cream or serve with plain 
cream. Peaches, bananas, raspberries, oranges, or 
any preferred fruit may be used in place of the 
strawberries. 

Nut Bread. To the soft dough before kneading 
or rolling, add half a cup of chopped nut meats, 
using walnuts, hickory nuts, peanuts, or any pre- 
ferred nuts. Spread in a well-greased bread pan 
and bake in a moderate oven for thirty or forty 
minutes. 

Nut Muffins. Bake the mixture as just de- 
scribed in hoi gem or muffin pans for twenty minutes 
and serve immediately: 

Meat Pies. Dough made by either of the fore- 
going formulae will make an excellent crust for meat 
pies. 

Fruit Roly-poly. Roll the dough about half an 
inch thick, spread with fresh sugared fruit, or with 
jam or preserves. Roll up tightly and press the 
ends together to prevent the fruit from escaping 
while the roly-poly is baking. Place in a greased 
pan, brush over with milk, and bake about half an 
hour in a moderately hot oven. Serve with cream 
or sweet sauce. 

The roly-poly may be steamed or boiled if pre- 
ferred ; in this case it should be wrapped in a greased 
cloth, securely fastened, and placed in a kettle of 

20 



QUICK-RAISING DOUGHS 

rapidly boiling water for forty-five minutes. If it is to 
be steamed, place in a tightly covered steamer over the 
boiling water for an hour and a quarter. The water 
must not be allowed to stop boiling for a moment in 
either process, or the pudding will be heavy. 

Scones are a sweetened variation of the founda- 
tion formula. Three tablespoons of sugar are added 
to the dry ingredients, and one well-beaten egg is 
substituted for a portion of the milk. The manner 
of making the scones is the same as for biscuits, but 
they are usually cut in diamonds, brushed over with 
a httle of the egg mixed with milk, then sprinkled 
with granulated sugar before they are baked. 

Quickly raised dough is made in another form 
than that which has been described. This form is 
a sweet dough from which are made cookies, doughi- 
nuts, and crullers. Dough for these popular dainties, 
though made in much the same manner as that for 
biscuits and similar products, is somewhat richer 
and contains eggs and flavoring, besides sugar. The 
cookery books give a great many rules for the making 
of crullers and cookies, but one good foundation 
formula will serve every purpose in this as well as 
in other lines of cookery. 

Foundation Formula for Crullers and Cookies 

4 cups flour i cup butter 

4 teaspoons baking 1 cup sugar 

powder 2 eggs 

I teaspoon salt 1 cup milk 
Flavoring 

21 



CAROLINE KING'S COOK BOOK 

Method of Preparation 

Mix and sift together the flour, salt, and baking 
powder. Rub the butter and sugar to a cream, and 
add the well-beaten eggs, then add alternately to the 
eggs and sugar the dry mixture and the milk. Flavor 
with one fourth teaspoon of grated nutmeg, mace, 
cinnamon, or half a teaspoon of vanilla or lemon 
extract. When the mixture is made into a compact 
mass, turn out on a floured board and pat into shape. 
Roll out half an inch thick and cut into rings. Let 
stand a few minutes to stiffen slightly, then drop into 
deep boiling fat. Cook to a golden brown, turn once, 
then lift out with a skimmer, and drain on paper. 
When cool, dredge with powdered sugar mixed with 
a little cinnamon. 

For a richer Cruller, omit half the milk and use 
only enough flour to make dough of the proper con- 
sistency to roll. 

Chocolate Doughnuts are made from this founda- 
tion formula by adding three tablespoons of im- 
sweetened chocolate, melted over hot water, to the 
butter and sugar mixture ; then add the egg, milk, 
and other ingredients as directed, and fry as usual. 

Jam Crullers. Roll the dough thin and cut in 
rounds. Place a teaspoon of jam on each round, 
wet the edges, and place another round over it, 
press the edges together firmly and fry in deep, 
boiling fat. 

Nut Crullers. After rolling the dough in a sheet, 

22 



QUICK-RAISING DOUGHS 



sprinkle it with chopped nuts, and fold again. Roll 
once more and cut in rings, fry in hot fat, and when 
cool sprinkle with granulated sugar. 

Cookies. Rich cookies are made from this same 
formula by omitting half the milk and adding only 
enough flour to enable you to roll the dough. A 
plainer cookie may be made by using the foundation 
recipe without changes. Roll the dough very thin, 
and cut in disks or in fancy shapes. For variety 
sprinkle the cookies with granulated sugar, chopped 
nuts, or chopped candied fruit. Roll slightly before 
baking. The cookies may be decorated by placing 
a cherry, raisin, or nut meat in the centers before 
baking. 

Chocolate Cookies are made by omitting three or 
four spoonfuls of the flour from the foundation 
formula, and adding instead an equal amount of 
melted chocolate or cocoa. 

Cocoanut Cookies. Add half a cup of freshly 
grated or desiccated cocoanut to the dough before 
all the flom* has been added to it. Then make it 
just stiff enough to roll easily. Bake as usual. 

BATTERS 



Batters 



Thin 



Thick 



Waffles 

Griddleoakes 

Fritters 

Pop-overs 

Miafflns 

Gems 

Cake / Made with Butter 

\ Made without Butter 
(Cake is further subdivided on page 34) 

23 



CAROLINE KING'S COOK BOOK 

Batters, like the doughs, are cross-classified, and 
these subdivisions are again divided into various 
forms and types ; but no matter how many nor how 
varied these are, the foundation for them is always 
the same. A batter is always a batter, whether it 
be thick or thin, baked on a griddle or in mufiin 
pans, and made of flour alone, or mixed with rice 
or corn meal or some other product. The delicate 
angel cake and the crisp, substantial waffle belong 
to the same division in cookery, for all their dis- 
similarity. 

The principles that underlie the making of one 
form of batter are the same basic principles which 
control them all, so when one has learned the foun- 
dation formula for each type of batter, the matter 
of suiting it to various purposes becomes very simple. 

Batters are either thin or thick, according to the 
use to which they are to be put. Thin batters are 
used in making waffles, griddlecakes, and fritters; 
muffins, gems, and sweet cakes require a somewhat 
thicker, but by no means a stiff, batter. Some 
writers define these classes of batters as pour batters 
and drop batters, and these terms describe them 
very well. 

The thin batter, such as is used in pancakes and 
waffles, might, with sHght changes and additions, 
answer quite as well in making some of the products 
which require a thick or drop batter. 

Gems and muffins are only another type of the 
same batter which is used for pancakes, waffles, 

24 



QUICK-EAISING DOUGHS 

and fritters. It is merely made slightly thicker and 
baked in the oven instead of on a griddle or wafl9.e 
iron. 

When this fact is thoroughly understood, it will 
easily be seen that all that is required for making 
all of the hot cakes and breads I have just named is 
one satisfactory foundation formula. From her one 
good batter, the housewife may make any number 
of good things. 

Let us take the waffle batter, for instance, for 
waffles require the very thinnest of pom* batters. 
The foundation formula which I am giving will 
make waffles that will be most satisfactory : 

Foundation Formula 

li cups flour 2 cups milk 

2f teaspoons baking 2 eggs 

powder 1 tablespoon melted 
J teaspoon salt butter 

Method of Preparation 

The most simple and efficient way of putting a 
batter together is to mix and sift all of the dry 
ingredients first, then to mix the liquids, and finally 
to combine the two mixtures. 

For a very light batter, the eggs should be beaten 
separately, the yolks mixed with the milk, and 
added to the dry ingredients, then the melted but- 
ter is beaten in, and lastly the stiffly whipped whites 
of the eggs are whipped in very lightly. If time is 
limited, the yolks and whites of the eggs may be 

25 



CAROLINE KING'S COOK BOOK 

beaten together. The waffles will be just as rich 
and fine, if not quite so airy. 

The waffle iron should be well heated and brushed 
on both sides with melted fat or vegetable oil. The 
latter will produce a deliciously crisp brown waffle 
that will never stick to the iron. 

After preparing this batter several times, the 
housewife wUl have its proportions and the method 
of putting it together as firmly fixed in her mind as 
the alphabet, and will not find it necessary to con- 
sult her recipe book every time that she wishes to 
use this foundation formula. 

If it is more convenient to use sour milk and soda, 
her formula is not materially different, as will be 
seen: 

Formula 

IJ cups flour 2 cups sour niillr 

I teaspoon soda 2 eggs 

1 tealspoon baking powder 1 tablespoon butter 

i teaspoon salt 

One fourth of a teaspoon of soda will neutralize 
the acidity in one cup of sour milk, therefore in any 
recipe of which sweet milk forms a part, sour milk 
may be used if one simply remembers to allow one 
fourth of a teaspoon of soda for each cup of sour 
milk and one teaspoon of baking powder to one or 
two cups of flour for additional lightness. Always, 
however, sift both baking powder and soda with 
the flour and then proceed as though the recipe had 
been left unchanged. 

26 



QUICK-RAISING DOUGHS 

In making pancakes, the foundation formula will 
again be used, adding one tablespoon more of flour 
or one fourth of a cup less milk. A pancake batter 
must be a thin batter also, it must be under- 
stood, only not quite so thin a batter as that for 
wafiles. 

The pancake griddle, like the waffle iron, should 
be smoking hot and rubbed with fat or oil. The 
cakes should be placed on the griddle from the point 
of a large spoon, and should be baked quickly and 
turned but once. 

Do not wash the griddle or the waffle iron after 
using, but rub them clean with a piece of soft paper, 
and place them on the back of the range or in the 
oven to dry. Scrubbing or washing them with soap 
or powder will cause the batter to stick each time 
they are used. 

Rice, Hominy, or other left-over cereals may be 
added to this thin batter as one wishes. To the in- 
gredients given, add one half a cup of cold cooked 
cereal mashed well and mixed with the batter until 
perfectly smooth. 

Com Meal may be used also; in this case omit 
half the quantity of flour designated and substitute 
the same quantity of corn meal. Scald the corn 
meal with a cup of boiUng water before mixing it 
with the other ingredients, as corn meal must be 
well cooked to make it thoroughly digestible. 

Entire wheat Flour or Graham Flour may be 
used in making the foundation formula also, though 

27 



CAROLINE KING'S COOK BOOK 

it is well to use one half white flour with either of 
these coarser flours, in order that the batter may be 
smooth, and the waffles or cakes of good texture. 

Bacon Griddlecakes are very good for a cool 
weather breakfast. To make them add one eighth 
of a pound of sliced bacon, cut in dice and crisply 
fried, to the foundation formula. Omit the butter 
and add a tablespoon of the bacon fat in its 
stead. 

Fritters are always popular and form an excellent 
way of using many a bit of left-over fruit or vege- 
table, or pieces of meat too small to be of use in any 
other way. The same foundation formula, made 
as for pancakes, will be quite the thing for fritters, 
and if you wish to make them slightly sweet, you 
will add a tablespoon of powdered or granulated 
sugar to the batter. Pineapple, peaches, apples, 
oranges, or any of the larger fruits make exceUent 
fritters. They should be cut in pieces of a con- 
venient size and stirred into the batter ; a cup and 
a half of fruit to the foundation batter formula will 
be sufl&cient. Drop the batter by spoonfuls into 
deep boiling fat and cook about five minutes, or 
until the fritters are thoroughly done in the center. 
Then skitn out and drain on soft paper, sprinkle 
with powdered sugar, and serve with or without 
sauce. Honey or maple syrup is excellent with 
apple fritters. Pudding sauces of various kinds are 
served with other fruit fritters. Strawberries, cher- 
ries, or other small fruits are dropped into the batter 

28 



QUICK-RAISING DOUGHS 

whole, and cooked in the same way as in making 
fritters of larger fruits. 

Corn,^peas, asparagus, or any left-over vegetable 
may be put to use in the same way, leaving the 
batter tmsweetened, of course ; cauliflower, parsnips, 
and oyster plant make very fine fritters and are often 
served with tomato sauce. Cheese fritters are made 
by adding half a cup of cheese, grated or cut in very 
small pieces, to the batter, then proceeding as in 
making fruit fritters. Oysters, clams, and left-over 
fish are also used in making them. If fresh oysters 
or clams are to be used, they should be chopped 
slightly before being added to the batter. Should a 
few slices of cold meat remain from dinner, trans- 
form them into a delectable luncheon dish by chop- 
ping coarsely and adding them to the fritter batter. 
Fry as usual and serve with tomato catsup or chili 
sauce. 

Fritters are very good and economical as a luncheon 
dish, as they afford an excellent and appetizing way 
in which many a remnant of food may be put to use, 
and if waffles or griddle cakes have formed a break- 
fast dish, and some of the batter remains when the 
meal is finished, a double economy is possible. 

Pop-overs, while belonging to the thin batter 
class, form one of those exceptions to the general 
rule of which I spoke in the first chapter. They 
contain but two of the four ingredients which form 
the foundation formula, viz. : flour and liquid. 

The formula for pop-overs is as follows : 

29 



CAROLINE KING'S COOK BOOK 

Foundation Fonnula 

1 cup flour 1 scant oup milk 

i teaspoon salt 2 eggs ^ 

I teaspoon melted butter 

Method of Preparation 

Sift together the flour and the salt, beat the eggs 
without separating them, and add the milk; then 
combine the mixtures, and beat very hard with an 
egg beater for two minutes. Pour into hot greased 
gem pans (iron or earthenware if possible) and bake 
in a moderate oven for half an hour. The baking 
must be slow or the pop-overs will not rise to their 
fullest extent. When finished, they should be hollow. 

Pop-overs may be served with hard sauce as a 
pudding, with maple syrup or honey for breakfast, 
luncheon, or Sunday evening supper, or they may 
be served with marmalade for afternoon tea. If 
they are well made and baked, they will be welcome 
upon any occasion. 

This same recipe will be used in making Yorkshire 
pudding for serving with roast beef, or for a baked 
batter pudding to be served as a dessert with any 
desired pudding sauce. 

When muffins or gems are to be made, we leave 
the thin or pour batter for the thick or drop batter, 
though the same foundation formula may be used, 
if it is thickened slightly with flour; with each 
half cup of flour an additional half teaspoon of baking 

30 



QUICK-RAISING DOUGHS 

powder must also be used, and if the muffins are 
desired slightly sweet, sugar must also be introduced 
into the recipe. Therefore, although an experienced 
cook will very easily transfer the waffle batter into 
one suitable for muffins, it may perhaps be a wiser 
plan to adopt an entirely new foundation formula 
for muffins and gems. 

Foundation Formula for Muffins 

2 cups flour 2 tablespoons sugar 

3| teaspoons baking If cups milk 

powder 2 tablespoons melted 

I teaspoon salt butter 

2 eggs 

Method of Preparation 

Mix this batter in the same method as directed in 
making the thin batter, mixing and sifting all of 
the dry ingredients together, then the liquid, and 
finally combining the two mixtures. Bake in well- 
greased muffin pans for twenty-five minutes. 

If gems are desired, use the same batter, baking 
it in hot greased iron gem pans. 

This thick batter is capable of much variation. 
It may be transformed into almost any kind of 
muffin or gem that one desires. 

Entire-wheat Muffins are made by substituting 
entire-wheat flour for the white flour. 

Graham Muffins. Substitute one cup of graham 
flour for one cup of white flour, then proceed as in 
the foundation formula. 

31 



CAROLINE KING'S COOK BOOK 

Berry Mufltos. Add a cup of blueberries or black- 
berries, — washed, drained, and dredged with flour, 
■ — to the batter just before placing it in the 
pans. 

Rice Mufltos. Add one half a cup of cold boiled 
rice, mashed and mixed with the egg, to the foun- 
dation recipe. Hominy muffins are made in the 
same way. 

Oatmeal Muffins. Proceed as in the rice mufllns, 
substituting cooked oatmeal for the rice. 

Rye Muffins. Use one half rye and one half wheat 
flour, and add also two tablespoons of molasses to 
the foundation recipe. 

Corn-meal Muffins. Use one cup of corn meal 
and one of white flour in making the batter, other- 
wise the foundation formula is unchanged. 

Fruit Muffins. Add one fourth of a cup of chopped 
raisins or cleaned currants to the foundation formula ; 
bake in muffin pans as usual. 

Figs or dates, weU chopped, may also be added 
to the thick batter. Chopped nuts of any kind 
added to the entire-wheat or graham muffins make 
them very tempting and wholesome. Remember 
when adding fresh fruits to the batter to have them 
as dry as possible and merely to fold them into it, 
in order to avoid breaking them, as the juices would 
mingle with the batter and make it too thin for good 
results. 

Bacon Muffins make a very tempting breakfast 
dish. The bacon is cut in dice and fried, then added 

32 



QUICK-RAISING DOUGHS 

to the batter, to which may be substituted the 
bacon fat for the usual amount of butter. 

Soiir milk may be substituted for sweet milk in 
any of the foregoing muffins by following the rule 
for the use of sour milk given in connection with the 
thin batter on page 26. 



33 



CHAPTER III 

CAKE MIXTURES 



Made with Butter < 



Cup 
Pound 
Fruit 
Cake { [ Gingerbread 

r Sunshine 
Made without Butter : Sponge < Angel 

[ Lady Fingers 

When we begin the subject of cake making, we 
are very apt to think that we have reached a de- 
partment of cookery which is extremely difficult 
and complicated, one that will require long study 
and experiment before we can hope to master it in 
all of its branches, and which will be constantly 
unfolding before our eyes, disclosing new intricacies 
and complications. But the making of a cake is 
really no more difficult than the mixing of the 
breakfast muffins. Indeed, cake itself is only an- 
other and more delicate form of the thick batter, 
and is no more involved an undertaking when it is 
once comprehended. 

There are but two forms of cake, those which 
contain butter or other shortening, and those in 
which butter is omitted. Each variety has its 
particular manner of being assembled, and each 

34 



CAKE MIXTURES 

is made from a foundation recipe in which the 
principal articles which form the base of all flour 
mixtures play a prominent part. Eggs and sugar 
are added in every instance, and in the butterless 
cakes the shortening is omitted, but the finished 
product is none the less a type of flour mixture whose 
Ukeness to the other forms is easily recognizable. 

The butter cakes include the simple cup cake, the 
rich, delicate pound cake, the spicy and pungent 
fruit cake, and the wholesome gingerbreads. Sponge 
cakes, as we usually designate those cakes which 
are made without butter or shortening, include the 
golden sunshine cake and airy angel cake. 

All of the cakes that one can name belong to one 
or the other of these classes or types. Therefore, 
it will not be difficult to understand that when the 
simplest recipe of a class has been learned, it will 
be a very easy task to master the secrets of any of 
the others in that class. 

As the butter cakes are more widely made than 
the sponge cakes, let us study that subject first. 
Seven ingredients are required in making a cake of 
this type, and a great deal of doubt and confusion 
may be spared the housewife if, before beginning 
her cake making, she will gather all of these seven 
articles together and place them conveniently near 
her. These articles are butter, sugar, eggs, milk, 
flour, baking powder, and flavoring. When these 
are collected, the cake pans should be prepared. 
Grease them lightly but suflEiciently with softened 

35 



CAROLINE KING'S COOK BOOK 

butter, using a small paint brush for the purpose. 
Then sprinkle the bottoms and sides of the pans 
with a little flour, turn them over, and strike them 
sharply in order that most of the flour may be 
shaken out, leaving but a light film in the pan. 
This method will insure a smooth surface for icing 
the cake. If preferred, the pans may be lined with 
paper. If this is done, the paper should be greased 
as well as the pans. 

The method of mixing a butter cake is always the 
same, whether the cake be plain or rich. Rinse a 
mixing bowl with hot water, then wipe it dry. 
Measure the butter and place it in the bowl. Whip 
the eggs, sift the flour with the baking powder, and 
measure the sugar. Now cream the butter with a 
wooden spoon ; when it is very soft, add the sugar 
gradually, and continue the creaming process. 
When the mixture resembles whipped cream, the 
egg yolks, beaten to a light froth, are added ; then 
the milk is poured into the bowl in which the eggs 
were beaten, and stirred about a little to rinse the 
particles of egg from it. Now add the milk and 
flom-, sifted with the baking powder, alternately 
to the cake batter and beat it vigorously. Flavor 
as desired, and fold in the stiffly beaten white of 
the eggs. The more the cake is beaten before the 
egg whites are added, the finer and the more deli- 
cate will be its texture. 

If a white cake is desired, that is, a cake which 
contains no egg yolks, proceed in exactly the same 

36 



CAKE MIXTURES 

manner as directed, folding in the whites of the eggs 
at the last moment before baking. 

One point about the addition of eggs to a cake or 
other batter it might be well to note. Almost all 
recipes will direct you to beat the yolks and whites 
of the eggs separately, and this method is correct 
if you desire a very light, fluffy cake that is to be 
eaten the same day it is made. For a richer, but 
not quite so light a cake, beat the yolks and whites 
together until they are light colored and thick. 
This process will produce a cake that will keep 
moist and in good condition for several days. Should 
you, however, desire a very rich cake, and are not 
particular about its being extremely light, drop the 
eggs into the batter, one by one, without beating 
them at all. Then beat the batter strenuously. 
The cake will be fine grained and delicious, if not 
so feathery and light as when eithier of the other 
methods are followed. 

As in the other batters I have enumerated, the 
foundation cake formula may be changed and en- 
riched to suit the demand. 

Foundation Formula for Simple Butter Cake 

1 tablespoon butter 2 level teaspoons baking 

1 cup sugar powder 

2 eggs i cup milk 
Ij cups flom: Flavoring 

This cake may be flavored with a grating of nut- 
meg and a little lemon rind and baked in a loaf, or 

37 



CAROLINE KING'S COOK BOOK 

it may be flavored with almond or vanilla extract, 
or with grated orange peel. - 

It may be baked in layers and put together with 
any one of a dozen delicious fillings or icings; it 
may be baked in patty pans and iced, or simply 
sprinkled with sugar just before baking. Or it 
may be baked in a shallow pan and cut in fancy 
shapes with a small cutter, and iced and decorated 
in any way that is desirable. Small cakes of this kind 
are very tempting when ornamented with candied 
cherries cut in halves, angelica, violets, or nuts. 

Fruit Cake. By the simple addition of a cup of 
chopped raisins, half a cup each of currants and 
candied peel thinly sliced and cut into tiny bits, 
and flavored with cinnamon and nutmeg, a very 
good fruit cake may be made. 

Nut Cake. A cup of chopped nut meats will 
transform the plain cake into a rich nut loaf. 

Chocolate Loaf or Devil's Food. Omit two 
tablespoons of flour and substitute the same amount 
of melted chocolate with a pinch of cinnamon for 
a chocolate loaf cake or devil's food. 

Sweet Strawberry Shortcake. If a sweet straw- 
berry shortcake is desired, make the foundation 
recipe, bake it in two layers, cool slightly, and put 
together with crushed and sweetened berries. Rasp- 
berries, peaches, bananas, or oranges may be used 
in the same way. Indeed, almost any cake that one 
desires may be made from the simple foundation 
formula. 

38 



CAKE MIXTURES 

Richer cakes are made in the same manner. The 
method is always the same in making butter cakes, 
whether one uses half a cup or a poimdof butter, 
one or a dozen eggs. 

A word as to the baking of cakes, for many a 
good loaf has been ruined after it has reached the 
oven. Remember, the temperature of the oven 
should be low at first, gradually increasing as the 
baking proceeds. Divide the baking of cakes into 
three periods, as directed in the chapter on bread 
baking, then there will be little danger of scorching 
them. When a cake is not sufficiently baked, it 
will give forth a faint surging or hissing when held 
to the ear. When completely baked, no sound will 
be heard. 

The following foundation recipe for a rich white 
cake may be varied in the same way as the plainer 
cake which has just been described. 

Foundation Formula for White Cake 

1 cup butter f cup milk 

1^ cups sugar 2 teaspoons baking powder 

Whites of 5 eggs i teaspoon almond extract 

2 cups flour 

Pound Cake Formula 

Here is a foundation formula for a simple pound 
cake, which may also be varied as one desires : 

i cup butter 4 eggs 

1 cup sugar Grated rind of i lemon 

2 cups flour, sifted twice I teaspoon baking 
Pinch mace powder 

39 



CAROLINE KING'S COOK BOOK 

By adding a cup each of raisins, currants, and 
thinly sliced citron, and half a teaspoon each of 
mace, cinnamon, and nutmeg, a very good and rich 
fruit cake may be made from this foundation formula. 

Gingerbread is a form of thick batter which son. 
authorities would perhaps hesitate to place in the 
same category with cakes, but properly made, it 
is a product fine enough to rank with the finest of 
this variety of flour mixtures. Gingerbread is 
more often made with sour milk or buttermilk than 
with sweet milk, the reason for this being that it 
contains molasses, which is also an acid requiring 
soda as a neutralizing agent ; therefore, it is better 
to use sour milk than sweet, as the lactic acid in it 
makes a more satisfactory combination with soda. 

Foundation Formula for Gingerbread 

f cup shortening 1 teaspoon soda 

1 cup molasses 1 cup sour or buttennilk 

1 cup sugar 2 eggs 

1 tablespoon ground ginger 4 cups flour 
1 teaspoon cinnamon 

Method of Preparation 

Place the molasses, shortening, sugar, ginger, and 
cinnamon in a bowl and stand in a warm place until 
the shortening melts. Then beat to a cream. Sift 
the flour with the soda, and beat the eggs without 
separatitig them. Add the sour milk and eggs to 
the molasses and sugar mixture, then gradually 
beat in the floiu" and soda. Beat very hard for 

40 




Country of iiuua H<iuscKtti)iii.g" 

Mixing the Cake Batter 




CouTtesij of •' Guoa Houscntepim/ " 

Marshmallow Gingerbread and Cup Cakes 




Courtesy of'Oood Housekeepino " 

Strawberry Meringue Cake 



CAKE MIXTURES 

from five to seven minutes. Then pour the mixture 
into a shallow pan that has been well greased and 
bake in a moderate oven for from forty to fifty- 
minutes. 

This formula may be varied in many ways. It 
is very good as it is, without embellishment; it 
may be baked in patty pans, each cake being sprin- 
kled with granulated sugar before being placed in the 
oven. When the cakes are done, place the pan 
containing them at the top of a very hot oven for a 
few moments to glaze the sugar. 

Maxshmallow Gingerbread. Bake the ginger- 
bread in a shallow pan, and when finished, arrange 
halved marshmallows over the surface in neat rows, 
replace in the oven until the marshmallows begin 
to puff up, and brown slightly. When serving, cut 
the cake so that a marshmallow is in the center of 
each piece. 

Nut Gingerbread. Add a cup of chopped 
nut meats (walnuts preferred, though any sort will 
answer) to the gingerbread batter, then bake as usual. 

Fruit Gingerbread. To the batter add a cup of 
seeded and chopped raisins, or a cup of citron thinly 
sliced and cut in small pieces. 

Cheese Gingerbread. Half a cup of grated cheese 
added to the gingerbread batter will make a pleas- 
ant and appetizing luncheon dish. 

Layer Gingerbread. Bake the gingerbread in 
three layers, and put together with any preferred 
icing. 

41 



CAROLINE KING'S COOK BOOK 

Chocolate Gingerbread. Add two ounces of 
chocolate, melted over hot water, to the ginger- 
bread batter and when baked ice with a chocolate 
icing. 

Apple Gingerbread. After the gingerbread has 
been baking long enough to set, draw it to the front 
of the oven and arrange sUces of pared apples over 
the surface, sprinkle with sugar and cinnamon, and 
finish baking. 

Gingerbread Pudding. Serve the gingerbread 
hot for dessert, with a lemon or other sauce. 

Sponge or butterless cakes, as explained previ- 
ously, include both the angel and the sunshine cake, 
the jelly roll, and various Uttle patty cakes which 
are very good and always liked. 

The following foundation formula for a plain, 
easily made sponge cake will be found very satis- 
factory : 

Foundation Formula for Sponge Cake 

3 eggs 1 cup flour 

1 cup granulated sugar 1 teaspoon baking powder 

4 tablespoons water J teaspoon salt 

Flavoring 

Method of Preparation 

Beat the eggs without separating till light and 
creamy, add the sugar, and beat again till thick 
and very light colored. This will reqmre at least 
five minutes of beating. Now add the water, beat 
again, and lastly the flour sifted with the baking 

42 



CAKE MIXTURES 

powder and salt. Beat hard for several minutes, 
flavor with half a teaspoon of vanilla or other 
extract. Pour into the prepared pans and bake for 
from thirty to forty minutes in a very moderate 
oven. Bake this cake in layers, loaf, or in patty 
pans, and ice or decorate it as preferred. 

Jelly Roll. Bake the sponge cake in a long, 
shallow pan, turn out on a clean piece of white 
paper that has been sprinkled with powdered sugar, 
and trim the crusts from the outer edges. Spread 
with softened jelly or other filling and roll up quickly 
while the cake is still warm. Wrap a cloth about 
the cake, and do not remove until it has cooled, 
then sift powdered sugar over the cake. 

Cocoa Sponge Cake. Omit two tablespoons of 
flour when making the foundation formula and 
substitute two tablespoons of cocoa. Proceed as 
in making the sponge cake. 

White Sponge Cake or Angel Cake is regarded as 
a difficult cake to make, but on the contrary it is 
an exceedingly simple one. The only precaution 
which must be rigidly heeded is to see that the whites 
of the eggs are beaten to a stiff dry froth before 
other ingredients are added. If this is not properly 
done, the cake will be tough and leathery. 

Foundation Formula for White Sponge Cake 

Whites of 5 eggs ^ cup flour 

i teaspoon cream of tartar Flavoring 

f eup granulated sugar 

43 



CAROLINE KING'S COOK BOOK 

Method of Preparation 

Beat the whites of eggs to a foam, then add the 
cream of tartar, and continue beating till they are 
stiff and dry. Beat the sugar in gradually, and add 
the flavoring, half a teaspoon of vanilla or rose, or 
one fourth teaspoon of almond. Sift the flpur three 
times, and fold it in lightly. Bake in a loaf, in 
layers, or patty pans. Ice or put together with 
any preferred icing or filUng. 

With these few simple foundation formulae, one 
may make an almost endless variety of delicate or 
rich cakes. The housewife who keeps on hand a 
small stock of candied fruits, nuts, and other dainties 
will be able to make a tempting and handsome cake 
in short order. A package of good desiccated cocoa- 
nut, half a pound of chocolate, a few candied cherries, 
some stalks of angelica, and several varieties of 
shelled nuts will afford infinite change, no matter 
if the foundation formula be used on every occasion. 
The icings, too, may be changed in innumerable 
ways, but of these I will speak later. 



44 



Pastry . 



CHAPTER IV 

PASTRY 

f Meat Pies 
Plain < Turnovers 

[ Pies witli One Crust 
C Fruit Pies 
Flaky I Tarts 

{ Fancy Pastry 
r Patties 
Puff { French Pastry 
[ Tarts 

r Cream Puffs 
Chou Paste < Eclairs 

[ French CruJlers 

Pie is perhaps the most popular dessert in America, 
and yet but a small proportion of housewives are 
able to make a crust that is rich and tender, light 
and digestible. In their very efforts to produce 
good results, they defeat their own ends, and the 
pastry which should be handled as lightly as a flower 
is worked and kneaded until it is hard, rubbery, and 
tough. 

The inexperienced housekeeper always feels that 
she must make a pie as soon as she begins her cookery 
experiments, and too often her first pie is apt to be 
her last, for pastry, while one of the most fascinating, 
is also one of the most trying and discouraging of 
problems, and unless one has a satisfactory formula 

45 



CAROLINE KING'S COOK BOOK 

for its manufacture and a light deft touch, one is 
very likely to give up in despair after the first at- 
tempt at pastry making. 

But even the difficulties that attend pie making 
disappear when one is shown the pitfalls and how to 
avoid them, and success will attend even the least 
experienced housewife who will follow closely the 
simple rules which I shall give her. 

Pastry is divided into three distinct classes : first, 
we have the plain but good pastry which is used for 
meat pies, the crust of custard and other open pies, 
turnovers, and simple desserts. 

The second division is the flaky pastry, and this 
is but a development of the plain pastry, so that when 
one has learned to make the first successfully, it is 
only a step and a short one to the second variety, 
which is used in fruit and other pies, tarts, and some 
fancy pastries. 

Puff paste is not a development of the other kinds, 
but is a distinct type in itself. It is used in making 
Uttle French pastries and desserts, patty cases, 
cheese straws, Napoleons, and various other sweets. 

Chou paste occupies a pecuhar position in regard 
to the other pastries. It is in fact neither a paste, 
nor yet a cake, but partakes of the nature of both ; 
it is generally regarded as belonging to the pastry 
class, however, so we will consider it here. Chou 
paste is used in making cream puffs, Eclairs, cheese 
puffs, French crullers, and a number of other dainty 
httle cakes. 

46 



PASTRY 

Plain pastry is not difficult to make, although I 
have told you that pitfalls attend its undertaking, 
A few general rules which apply equally to both the 
flaky and the puff pastry should be observed, and 
when these are well learned, the mysteries which 
surround pastry making will have disappeared. 

All of the ingredients and utensils to be used in 
making the pastry should be quite cold. The work 
should be quickly and deftly done, the paste handled 
as deUcately and as httle as possible. Pastry must 
be baked in a hot oven, with the greatest heat below ; 
then it will be Ught and digestible. If allowed to 
stand for some time in an oven only moderately 
warm, it will be greasy and hard to digest. 

Given these three simple rules, no one should 
experience any trouble in producing a good pie. 
There is no mystery, no magic possessed only by 
the fortunate few, in pastry making. It is all clear 
and comprehensive, and any one who is even or- 
dinarily careful should be successful even at the first 
attempt. 

Foundation Formula for Plain Pastry 

IJ cups flour i cup shortening 

i teaspoon baking powder 4 tablespoons cold 

i teaspoon salt water 

Method of Preparation 

Sift together the flour, salt^ and baking powder,' 
and with the tips of the fingers rub in the shortening 
(lard or any of the coromercial fats will answer). 

47 



CAROLINE KING'S COOK BOOK 

When the mixture resembles coarse meal, add the 
cold water, and with a spatula toss the ingredients 
about until a mass is formed. Gather in all the 
particles that adhere to the sides of the bowl and 
turn out on a flioured board. Rub the rolling pin 
hghtly with flour and roll the paste one fourth of an 
inch thick. It is now ready to make into whatever 
form of pastry is desired. Meat pie is made by 
placing a strip of the pastry about the inside rim of 
a deep dish. Fill with the meat mixture and place 
a cover of the pastry, in which a few slits have been 
cut to allow the steam to escape, over it. Pinch 
about the edges firmly and neatly to hold the juices 
of the meat, and bake in a hot oven until the pastry 
is well done, and of a rich brown. 

In making a shell for a one-crust pie, grease the 
outside of a deep pie pan, place the pastry on it, and 
pinch about the edges to make a deep border. Prick 
the pastry in several places with a small fork, and 
bake in a hot oven. In ten minutes it will have 
reached a golden tint and should be carefully watched 
until it is ready to be taken from the oven. When 
done, remove the tin from the pie crust and arrange 
the filling in the shell. Custard, eocoanut, pumpkin, 
lemon meringue, and in fact any pie that is to be 
made with one crust may have such a shell as I have 
just described for its foundation. This is always 
the best way if possible, as the pastry is more diges- 
tible when baked alone, and afterward filled with 
the desired fruit or mixture. 

48 



PASTRY 

Tiimovers are made by rolling the pastry one 
eighth of an inch thick and cutting it in four-inch 
squares. Then place a spoonful of jam, jelly, or 
fruit in the center of each, and fold over to make a 
three-cornered cake. Pinch all about the edges, 
first wetting the pastry to make it adhere well. 
Bake the turnovers in a hot oven. 

The plain pastry which I have just described is 
quite as good as most persons will desire, but it 
may be transformed into a flaky and much crisper 
pastry in short order. Make the pastry after the 
foundation formula as directed and roll out in a 
rectangular sheet, about one fourth of an inch thick. 
Then cut two tablespoons of cold, firm butter into 
minute pieces and scatter these over the central 
portion of the paste. Then fold the two ends over 
and press the edges close together. Now roll the 
pastry again into a rectangular sheet. Scatter once 
more with butter and fold. Now you have a square 
of pastry on the board consisting of several layers, 
with bits of butter between them. Roll this to a 
thin sheet, flouring the rolHng pin slightly, then fold 
the pastry and roll again, turning the pastry half 
way round at each rolling. It is quite ready now 
to be made into whatever form you have decided 
upon, but it will be so much more dehcate and flaky 
for a sojourn in the refrigerator for an hour or two, 
that I always advise chilUng it before using, if 
possible. 

From this pastry you may make delicious fruit 

49 



CAROLINE KING'S COOK BOOK 

pies, rich crusts for open pies or tarts, and any of 
the little French pastries that you fancy. 

Fruit Pies are made by lining a greased pie plate 
with a layer of the pastry, taking care not to touch 
it with the hands any more than is necessary. Roll- 
ing it does no harm, as the dough is not made warm 
by contact with the rolling pin, but the hands, and 
especially heavy hands, are fatal to it. When the 
pan is lined with the paste, sprinkle a scant table- 
spoon of flour over the bottom crust, then put in 
the fruit, sliced apples, rhubarb cut in inch pieces, 
berries, stewed fruit, as you desire. Sweeten to 
taste, adding about a teaspoon of flour to the sugar. 
Dot the fruit with small particles of butter. Then 
arrange the top crust, having first wet the edge of 
the lower crust with cold water all around. Cut 
sUts in the top crust to allow the steam to escape, 
then pinch the edges, of the pie together well, and 
bake in a moderately hot oven for from forty to 
fifty minutes. 

All fruit pies with two crusts are made in the same 
way. They vary only in the amount of sugar re- 
quired and in the flavoring, for some housewives 
like to sprinkle an apple pie with cinnamon or nut- 
meg, and other fruit pies with various other spices. 
As a rule, I should not advise the use of spices in 
fruit pies; let the flavor of the fruit suflSce, and 
reserve the spices for other dishes which require them. 

Napoleons are strips of pastry baked in a hot 
oven and put together when finished with jam or 

50 



PASTRY 

cream filling, and iced with confectioner's icing. 
Sometimes a few chopped nuts are sprinkled over 
the cakes when they are finished. 

Cherry Cakes. Cut the flaky pastry in small 
scalloped circles, brush over with a little beaten 
egg and milk, press half a candied cherry in the 
center of each cake, and dredge it with powdered 
sugar. Bake about ten minutes. 

Tarts are made by cutting several rounds of 
pastry, and with a smaller cutter making a hole in 
the centers of two thirds of the disks. Then pile 
the circles, dampening each on the under side to 
make them stick together, on rounds of the pastry, 
and brush over with a little egg and milk. Bake 
till done, then fill the cavities with jelly or jam. 

Swedish Tartlets. Cut the pastry into squares 
and turn the corners to the centers, pressing them 
gently to make them stick ; bake in a hot oven and 
when finished place a dot of jelly or jam in the 
center of each tartlet. 

Puff Pastry. Pufif paste is more expensive than 
either the plain or the flaky pastry ; it is also more 
difficult to make, but it is made on much the same 
principle, and when one has acquired the knack of 
making the simpler forms, it should not be a very 
complicated matter to make good puff pastry also. 

Foundation Formula for Puff Paste 

2 cups flour Pinch of salt 

1 cup butter lee water 

51 



CAROLINE KING'S COOK BOOK 

Method of Preparation 

Place the flour, sifted with one fourth teaspoon 
of salt, into a chopping bowl, and chop together with 
the butter until the mixture has formed httle balls 
about as large as peas. Make a hole in the center 
and pour in a scant half cup of ice water. Then, 
with as little handling as possible, make into a fine 
dough. If a few bits of butter fall from it, it does 
not matter as they will roll in smoothly later. Roll 
out half an inch thick, taking care to do this work 
in as cool a place as possible, and keeping the dough 
very cold, as well. Touch the pastry lightly, and 
work as swiftly as possible; otherwise, the butter 
will soften, and the paste become tough. Fold and 
roll three times, dredging a httle flour over the 
pastry to prevent sticking. Finally fold it again 
and place it on a pie tin in the refrigerator. 

When ready to use, — and remember it is im- 
perative that the pastry should be allowed to be- 
come thoroughly chilled, — roll it one third of an 
inch thick, working as swiftly and deftly as before. 
Do not touch the pastry about the edges when 
making into pies, patty cases, or other forms, as 
the outer edge must be allowed to rise to its fullest 
extent when baked, and it cannot do this if it is 
pressed or handled. 

Puff pastry must be baked in a hot oven. It is 
well, however, to chill the pie, patty, or French 
pastry after it has been placed on the pan to bake, 

52 



PASTRY 

and then bake it in a high temperature. The object 
is to have the pastry so cold and the oven so hot that 
it is baked before the bits of butter in it have an 
opportunity to melt. When properly made, the 
paste will rise nearly an inch in height during the 
baking. When broken, the separate flakes will be 
quite distinct. Puff pastry is useful in making fine 
desserts, patty cases for holding creamed oysters, 
sweetbreads, or fish, preserves, or fresh fruit. 

Small patty pans, inverted and covered with the 
pastry, then pricked and baked quickly, make 
delicious desserts when filled with fresh or preserved 
fruit and topped with whipped cream. 

Napoleons, Swedish tartlets, tarts, turnovers, 
and other delicate sweets are made with puff as 
well as with the flaky pastry. Scraps of pastry 
rolled thin, then filled with a spoonful of meat of 
any kind finely chopped and mixed with a well- 
seasoned white sauce, made into fingers and baked, 
make very tasty luncheon dishes. The upper crust 
of any fruit, chicken, pigeon, or oyster pie may 
also be made from puff pastry. Never use it for 
the under crust in a two-crusted pie, as it is much 
too rich. Cheese puffs are made as directed in the 
chapter on doughs. 

The subject of fillings for pies is a large one, but 
there are a few which are so popular that a cookery 
book without recipes for them would be considered 
very incomplete. 

Custard Pie is perhaps the best liked and most 

53 



CAROLINE KING'S COOK BOOK 

often served. Usually it is not a wholesome dessert, 
because to be well made, the crust should bake 
quickly, the filUng very slowly, and there seems no 
adequate way to accomplish both in a combination 
dish of this kind. If custard pie is to be made so 
that it will be both digestible and good, the crust 
should be baked first over an inverted pan as I have 
described, the filhng made separately, and placed 
in the shell, then the whole browned delicately. 

For the filling, heat a cup and a half of milk to 
the boihng point, beat together one egg, four table- 
spoons of sugar, a teaspoon of cornstarch, and one 
eighth of a teaspoon of salt. Pour the scalded milk 
over the mixture and beat well, simmer over hot 
water till the mixture thickens, flavor with a few 
gratings of nutmeg, or with vanilla. Pour into the 
crust and brown slightly. Two eggs may be used, 
and the whites reserved for a meringue. 

Squash Pie may be made by the same formula, 
by adding a cup of strained, steamed squash and a 
teaspoon each of cinnamon and mace to the mixture. 

Lemon Meringue Pie. Add the grated rind of a 
lemon and two tablespoons of juice to the custard 
pie filUng, after it has been removed from the fire. 
Place in a pastry shell and cover with a meringue 
made of the whites of the eggs, beaten with foiu" 
tablespoons of sugar. Brown delicately in a moder- 
ate oven. 

Lemon Meringue Pie, Niunber 2. Mix together 
three fourths of a cup of sugar, a tablespoon of corn- 

54 



PASTRY 

starch, and one of flour, and pour over them three 
fourths of a cup of boiUng water. Cook till clear, 
then add a teaspoon of butter, and the well-beaten 
yolks of two eggs, also the grated rind and juice of 
a lemon. Pour into a pastry shell and spread with 
a meringue made of the whites of the eggs and four 
tablespoons of sugar, and flavored with a teaspoon 
of lemon juice. Brown the meringue delicately. 

Fresh Currant Pie. Bake a pastry shell as usual. 
Pick over and wash a cup of fresh currants, then add 
them to a mixture of a cup of sugar, one eighth of 
a cup of flour, two egg yolks, and two tablespoons 
of water beaten together. Place in the crust and 
bake slowly. Cover with meringue. Raspberries, 
blackberries, strawberries, and other fruits may be 
used in the same way. 

Pastry Shortcake. Make flaky pastry and bake 
it in three rounds in layer cake pans. Spread each 
layer with crushed and sweetened strawberries, 
raspberries, peaches, or bananas. Top with whipped 
cream or meringue. 

Cream Pie. Prepare the shells as in the previous 
recipe. Make a cream filling and spread between 
the layers. Dust with powdered sugar. 

Chocolate Pie. Make hke the custard pie, add- 
ing two tablespoons of melted chocolate to the 
formula for filhng. 

Chou Paste, as I said before, is not, strictly speak- 
ing, a pastry, nor is it a cake, but combines the 
qualities of both. 

55 



CAROLINE KING'S COOK BOOK 

Foundation Formula for Chou Paste 

1 cup water i teaspoon salt ' 

J cup butter 1 cup flour 

3 eggs 

Method of Preparation 

Pour the water into a saucepan and add the butter. 
Place over the fire and bring to the boiling point. Add 
the salt and the flour sifted together, stirring them 
in all together. Beat over the fire until the mixture 
leaves the sides of the pan. Then remove from the 
fire and cool for a few minutes. Break the eggs 
into the mixture, one at a time, beating well till it 
is smooth and pliable. Then set aside for half an 
hour to cool, though it may be used at once if more 
convenient. 

Cream Puffs. Drop the chou paste from the end 
of a spoon on to a greased pan, making the cakes as 
round as possible. Brush each with a httle milk 
and egg yolks, beaten together, to make them shine, 
then bake for twenty-five minutes in a moderate 
oven. If baked too quickly, the cakes will not puff 
as they should. Be sure, too, that they are thor- 
oughly baked, or they will fall on being removed 
from the oven. When the puffs are cold, open them 
at the sides, and fill with whipped and sweetened 
cream, jelly, or marmalade, or vanilla- or chocolate- 
flavored custard. Before serving, sift a little pow- 
dered sugar over the puffs. 

56 



PASTRY 

Eclairs. Make these from the same pastry, 
arranging it in strips an inch wide and five inches 
long, in buttered pans. When baked and cooled, 
fill like the pufifs and ice with vanilla-flavored con- 
fectioner's icing, or chocolate icing. 

Chocolate Puffs. Omit two tablespoons of flour 
when making the puffs and substitute two table- 
spoons of chocolate melted over hot water. Make 
and bake as usual, and when cool fill with whipped 
cream or apricot preserves. 

Cheese Puffs. Add four tablespoons of grated 
cheese to the hot mixture and season with one fourth 
teaspoon of paprika. Beat in the eggs as before, 
and bake in small puffs. These are very nice served 
with salad for luncheon or supper. 

French Crullers. Add a tablespoon of sugar to 
the paste, before the eggs are broken into it, then 
add the eggs as usual, cool, and with a spoon or 
pastry bag form the pastry into rings on greased 
paper. Let them stand a while to become slightly 
hardened, then slip from the paper into boiling fat, 
and cook sUghtly brown. Ice with chocolate or 
vanilla icing, or sprinkle with powdered sugar. 

Puff Balls make a nice dessert. Add a teaspoon 
of lemon juice and a Uttle grated nutmeg to the 
cruller paste, then form in balls the size of marbles, 
and drop into hot fat. Cook rather slowly in order 
to give the puffs sufficient time to swell to their 
fullest proportions. Serve hot with lemon or jelly 
sauce, or with maple syrup. 

57 



CAROLINE KING'S COOK BOOK 

Strawberry Tart is a novel and delicious dish 
which combines both the flaky or the puff and the 
chou paste. Cut the pastry into disks about four 
inches in diameter, wet slightly about the edges with 
cold water, then make a border of the chou paste 
about the edge, using either a pastry bag and tube 
or a spoon. The border should be very narrow as it 
will puff considerably. Bake in a moderate oven 
to aUow the border to bake properly. When cool, 
fill the shell with strawberries well sweetened, and 
top with sweetened whipped cream. Other fresh 
fruits, or any delicate preserve or marmalade will 
make a delicious filling for these tarts. 



58 



CHAPTER V 



SOUPS 



Foundation — Liquid — Seasoning — Flavoe 



' Made with Meat 



Soup 



Brown Stock 



. White Stock 



Vegetable 
Consomme 
Broths 
, Bouillons 

Light Vegetable Soups 
Some Varieties of 

Cream Soups 
Chicken 
Some Chowders 



f Cream Soups 
Made without Meat I Purees 

[Bisques 
Chowders 



Although, when one glances over the menu card 
in a hotel or restaurant, or examines the pages 
devoted to this product in a reliable cookery book, 
there may seem to be an almost endless variety of 
soups, when the subject is studied, it will be found 
that they may all be comprised in two classes, those 
made upon a meat foundation, and those in which 
meat has no part. And further, that each of these 
classes has for its basis a distinct and easily compre- 
hended formula, which is varied only by the fiavor- 

59 



CAROLINE KING'S COOK BOOK 

ing and seasoning to suit the taste or the occasion 
for which it is required. 

Once these facts are made clear, soup making 
does not seem so complicated an undertaking after 
aU. When the housewife realizes that she has but 
two classes of soups to master, and that by applying 
the principles upon which these are made she may 
place upon her own table almost any of the fine 
soups for which the French chef is famous, she will 
more often place soup upon her menus, and less 
often serve the same variety. 

Let us consider those soups requiring meat in 
their foundation first. For a fine soup it will be 
necessary to use a fresh piece of bone or meat, but 
the scraps from the table, the left-over ends from 
steaks, the bones from the fowl may be used also, 
and will make an excellent foundation, especially 
if they are supplemented by a small quantity of raw 
beef, or a freshly cut bone, as I wUl explain later. 

This class of soups is made upon a foundation 
stock, and this is again divided into two subclasses ; 
these are the soups which are built upon a brown 
stock, and those which have white stock for their 
foundation. From these two stocks all of the 
varieties of meat soup which the average house- 
wife will care to undertake are made. 

These brown and white stocks are again divisible, 
their subclasses being the vegetable, consomm^, 
broths, and so on, as shown in the table at the be- 
ginning of this chapter. 

60 



SOUPS 

The brown stock is the most familiar to us, as it 
enters into almost all of the rich, strong, stimulating 
soups that are served. 

Foundation Formula for Brown Stock 

4 pounds shin of beef or other 1 onion 

portion from muscular 2 sprigs parsley- 
part of animal | cup each of diced ttir- 

5 quarts water nips, carrot, celery 

3 cloves I a bay leaf, sprig of 

i teaspoon paprika thyme, and marjoram 

Saltspoon pepper 3 teaspoons salt 

Method of Preparation 

In purchasing beef for the brown stock, always 
remember that those sections taken from the mus- 
cular part of the animal will contain more blood 
and will therefore be more nutritious for soup mak- 
ing than the more tender pieces. While they re- 
quire long, slow cooking, they are better for this 
purpose than the finest of roasting pieces. 

Trim the lean meat from the bone, cut it into small 
pieces, and break the bone. Melt a small piece of 
fat in the frying pan and when hot, drop in half of 
the meat, and turn it quickly until it is well browned 
on all sides. Cover the rest of the meat and the 
bone with the water and let it stand for half an 
hour to draw out the juices. Then place on the 
back of the range and add the browned meat and 
the salt. Bring very gradually to the boiling point, 
as quick cooking would prevent the juices from 

61 



CAROLINE KING'S COOK BOOK 

flowing. Cover closely and simmer very gently for 
six hours. At the end of this time, add one onion 
into which three cloves have been stuck, half a bay 
leaf, a sprig each of marjoram and thyme, two 
sprigs of parsley, half a cup each of diced turnips, 
carrots, and celery. Season with a saltspoon of 
pepper and one fourth a teaspoon of paprika. Cook 
very slowly for two hours, then strain and cool. 
When cold, skim off the cake of grease which has 
formed on the top, and put away in a very cold 
place. The grease will be found excellent for fry- 
ing potatoes or other vegetables. 

This stock may be brought again to the boiling 
point and sealed in sterilized jars for future use. 
It will keep quite as well as canned fruits or vege- 
tables if properly prepared. 

The foregoing formula is the correct foundation 
for any number of good nutritive soups. When 
cold, it will form a rich, strong jelly, which may be 
served iced as a first course for a warm-weather 
dinner, or it will be found rich enough to admit of 
some diluting with boiling water when it is re- 
cooked with whatever flavor is selected. It may 
also be used in making jellied meats, vegetables, or 
eggs, or as a garnish for salads or cold sliced meats 
of any kind. 

In making use of odds and ends of meat, bones, 
and trimmings, the same foundation formula may 
be used, but it is always well to add half a pound 
of fresh meat to a pound and half of the cooked, 

62 



SOUPS 

in order to provide the necessary juices and flavor. 
Otherwise the method is the same. 

There is a popular fallacy that in a French kitchen 
the stock pot is never off the stove, that all of the 
odds and ends of meat, bones, or vegetables which 
are left from the table are thrown into it with a 
proportionate amount of water and seasoning, and 
that as occasion demands, the required quantity 
of rich, clear, delicious broth is drawn from the 
kettle. 

Let me say that a soup made in this way would 
never have given French cookery the reputation 
it now enjoys. It would be tasteless and watery, 
perhaps even unpleasant. .The correct way to 
manage the stock kettle is to save all of the pieces 
of cooked and left-over meat in a cool place until a 
sufficient quantity for your purpose has been col- 
lected. Then trim the fat from them (saving it 
for other purposes) and place, the meat in the kettle 
with the other ingredients which I have named. 
If the family is small, only a small quantity of stock 
will be required, and the foundation formula may 
be divided. A quart of stock may be made if no 
more is required, and the same foundation formula 
used, the same method of preparation followed. 
In making a small quantity of stock, reduce the time 
of boiling one half. 

From the foundation brown stock that I have 
described may be made a large number of soups, 
so different in character that their common origin 

63 



CAROLINE KING'S COOK BOOK 

would never be suspected. Rice, macaroni, or 
barley soup are the most simple varieties. These 
are made by cooking one fourth of a cup of rice, 
macaroni (broken in small pieces), or barley in 
boihng water till tender, then rinsing with cold 
water to remove starchy particles, and adding it to 
two quarts of the boiling stock. Never boil these 
products directly in the soup, for they will not only 
become pasty, but will prevent the soup from being 
clear and transparent. 

Creole Soup is a very tasty prelude to a luncheon 
or dinner, and a very simple matter to provide if 
a quart of brown stock is at hand. Chop fine a 
green pepper which has been washed and freed from 
seeds and fiber, and fry it with two tablespoons of 
chopped onion in butter or dripping for five minutes. 
Then add two tablespoons of flour and stir till 
well blended. Pour a quart of cool stock over the 
mixture and add a pint of fresh tomatoes cut in 
pieces, or a pint of canned tomatoes. Simmer for 
twenty minutes, then add a teaspoon of sharp 
vinegar, additional salt, and pepper as required, and 
rub through a sieve into a hot tureen. Serve with 
croutons or small squares of toast. 

Italian Onion Soup is a most delicious soup also. 
Slice four onions very fine and fry them brown in 
butter or dripping. Pour four cups of brown stock 
over them and bring to the boiling point. Pour 
into a tureen and arrange squares of toasted bread 
on the surface. Sprinkle thickly with grated cheese 

64 



SOUPS 

and serve immediately. The soup may be served 
individually if preferred. 

Vegetable Soup is made by simply adding such 
vegetables as one prefers to the boiling stock after 
it has been skimmed and strained. Cook till all 
the vegetables are tender. Carrots, onions, string 
beans, lima beans, tomatoes, and cabbage are all 
used in making vegetable soup. Peas, string and 
lima beans wiU not require chopping. If the soup 
is well made and nicely seasoned, it will be good with 
any of the vegetables or combinations of vegetables 
that I have named. 

Consomme is merely the brown stock boiled down 
until but two thirds of the original quantity remains. 
It is then cleared by adding the white and shell of 
one egg beaten together with a few spoonfuls of cold 
water. Stir into the cool soup and bring slowly 
to the boiUng point, stir constantly for five min- 
utes, then add a cup of cold water and, if liked, a 
glass of sherry. Let stand for from five to ten 
minutes, then strain through cheesecloth. If not 
brown enough, add a teaspoon of caramel to color. 

Juliemie Soup is made by adding a shredded 
carrot, turnip, and potato, first parboiled, to the 
hot soup, also a few green peas or green lima beans. 
The soup is then allowed to simmer until the vege- 
tables are tender. 

English Tomato Soup is another tempting variation 
of the brown stock. To four cups of the stock, add 
one can of tomatoes and one shced onion. Simmer 

65 



CAROLINE KING'S COOK BOOK 

for an hour, then press through a sieve, and season 
with a teaspoon of Worcestershire sauce. Thicken 
with a tablespoon of flour and butter blended, and 
when finished add three tablespoons of boiled rice. 

The foregoing soups are but a few of the many- 
varieties which have the brown stock for their 
foimdation. And lest any one shoiild feel that to 
make such a base for their soups as I have described 
would prove an unwarranted expense, let me say 
that the stock made from left-overs will prove al- 
most as satisfactory, but I would not advise diluting 
it as in the case of the stock made from fresh meat 
and bone. If it is possible, too, always add a little 
raw meat or bone to the cooked meat for additional 
flavor and richness. 

White stock, though not so commonly used as 
the brown, is still very usefiil, and is made in almost 
the same manner. Its base is a light meat or fowl, 
and no vegetable that is at all Hkely to give it a 
brown tint is added to it. The meat is not browned 
as in the other foundation stock. 

Foundation Formula for White Stock 

Knuckle of veal or 3 quarts of the water in 1 cup chopped celery 

which veal or chicken has been boiled 1 chopped onion 

2 level teaspoons salt 2 sprigs parsley 

i teaspoon white pepper Water 
Paprika 

Method of Preparation 

Cut the meat from the bone and put both to soak 
in 3 quarts of cold water (if fresh meat and bone is to 

66 



SOUPS 

be used, otherwise use the water from chicken or veal). 
In half an hour place over the fire and bring slowly 
to the boiling point. Cook for four hours, then add 
the vegetables and seasonings. Now proceed as in 
the brown stock. 

White stock, strained and seasoned, is sometimes 
used in making cream soups, but these are more 
often made without the addition of any meat or 
fowl. White stock soups are sometimes thickened 
slightly. This is done by rubbing together a table- 
spoon each of butter and flour, then mixing these 
with a httle of the hot soup. Mix to a paste and 
pour into the soup. Cook till smooth and slightly 
thickened. A tiny pinch of nutmeg is also a pleas- 
ant addition to a white soup. 

Spring Soup. Add half a cup of green peas, a 
few asparagus points, and a tablespoon of shredded 
lettuce or string beans cut in bits to three pints of 
white stock. Cook till the vegetables are tender, 
then serve in cups. For a garnish sprinkle the 
surface of the soup with finely chopped water cress 
or parsley. 

Rice Soup. This is made by adding three table- 
spoons of boiled rice to a quart of white stock. 
Serve with croutons. 

Before I leavfe the subject of soups made on a 
meat foundation, let me say that when either stock 
has been drained from the meat and vegetables 
after the first cooking, a second stock which will do 
nicely for plain soups and for gravies may be made 

67 



CAROLINE KING'S COOK BOOK 

by pouring half the original quantity of cold water 
over them and adding any left-over bits of meat 
that may have accumulated in the refrigerator, 
then simmering this second stock for four hours. 
Skim well, strain, and put in jars. This weaker 
stock will be found very useful for many purposes. 
Of the soups made without meat for a basis, the 
cream soups or bisques seem the most popular. 
Perhaps this is because they are so easily and 
quickly made. These cream soups may be made of 
almost any vegetable that one prefers, but they 
are all made upon the same foundation formula, 
whether the delicate little cress or the hardy carrot 
gives them their title. 

Fouadation Formula for Cream Soups 

1 pint milk IJ cups water in which vege- 
1 tablespoon butter table was cooked 

1 tablespoon flour Salt, pepper, and paprika 

1 cup vegetable Mace 

Method of Preparation 

A thin white sauce is the foundation for all of these 
delicate soups. This is made by cooking together 
a tablespoon of butter and one of flour. When 
these bubble, add a pint of cold milk, and stir till 
the mixture thickens, then add a teaspoon of salt, 
one foiirth teaspoon of white pepper, one eighth 
teaspoon of paprika, and, if hked, a pinch of ground 
mace. This latter spice is very delicious with 
lettuce, asparagus, spinach, beet, and some of the 

68 



SOUPS 

other soups. Meantime, the vegetable should have 
been prepared. If a lettuce soup is to be made, 
use the outer leaves from a head of lettuce; if 
asparagus, the tough ends of the stalks ; if beet, two 
raw beets of medium size, peeled and grated; 
carrot is prepared Uke the beet; in fact, all root 
vegetables are cooked in the same way for a cream 
soup. Cut the vegetable, if not grated, into small 
pieces, and cook in a pint of water till just tender. 
Then press through a sieve, forcing all of the pulp 
through that is possible. You will probably have 
one and a half cups of hquid. Add this to the white 
sauce and simmer for five minutes over hot water. 
Serve in cups. A slice of onion or stalk of celery 
cooked with the other vegetable will vary the flavor. 

It should be remembered that carrots, turnips, 
beets, and all vegetables which contain much cel- 
lulose or woody matter should always be grated or 
run through a food chopper before they are cooked 
for the cream soup. And if they are of rich color 
like the carrot and beet, they must not be over- 
cooked or the delicate tint so desirable in a cream 
soup will be lacking. 

Celery, onions, cress, cauliflower, cabbage, peas, 
or hma beans require less cooking, but should be 
tender enough to be easily forced through the sieve 
before being added to the white sauce. Corn should 
be removed from the cob by running a knife down 
the rows of kernels and pressing out the pulp, or, 
if preferred, the corn may be grated. 

69 



CAROLINE KING'S COOK BOOK 

In making cream of tomato soup, add one fourth 
a teaspoon of soda to the cooked tomatoes before 
pressing them through a sieve. Do not cook after 
combining with the white sauce. 

Purees are another form of the cream soup, but 
they are usually made from the dried vegetables, 
lentils, spUt peas, lima beans, green peas, or dried 
corn. The vegetables are washed and looked over 
carefully, and are then put to soak in cold water 
over night. In the morning, they should be drained 
and put over the fire to cook in fresh cold water. 
Allow two and a half quarts of water to a cup of 
the dried vegetables, measured before soaking. Add 
half an onion, a sprig of parsley, and a piece of 
celery. Simmer for three or four hours until the 
vegetables are tender enough to be mashed. Press 
them, with the water in which they were cooked, 
through a sieve, then add a pint of white sauce, 
made as for the cream soups. Cook together for 
fifteen minutes. If a ham bone is at hand, it may 
be boiled with the dried vegetable, or a small piece 
of salt pork may be added for flavor, though neither 
is necessary. 

All purees are made in the same manner, except 
that in very delicate purees, like those made of 
chestnuts or mushrooms, the ham bone or pork is 
never added. Purees are all very nutritious and 
easily made. One thing is necessary to remember 
in making them, and that is the flour and butter 
thickening which is added to the white sauce. 

70 



SOUPS 

It may be thought that the vegetable itself will 
supply all the thickening required, but this is not 
so, for the soup will separate, and the pulp will 
settle to the bottom of the tureen if the thickening 
is not used. White stock may be used in making 
the cream soups instead of milk. This is often 
done where the water in which a chicken has been 
boiled, or the hquor from boiled lamb, is convenient. 

Bisques were formerly made only of crayfish, 
and when a soup of this character was mentioned, 
it was always understood that a crayfish soup was 
meant. All shellfish soups are now included in 
this class and are made in much the same manner. 
When one has learned to make a bisque of oysters, 
to make one of lobster or clams will prove quite a 
simple understanding. The following method will 
' produce a perfect bisque : 

Wash a pint of oysters by pouring a cup of water 
over them, strain their liquor through a fine sieve, 
and bring it to the boihng point. Skim it well and 
add the oysters after looking them over well for 
stray bits of shell. Simmer till the edges curl 
and the oysters become plump. Then add to a 
pint of white sauce made as in cream soups. Sea- 
son with a level teaspoon of salt, pepper, and pa- 
prika to taste, and add a tiny pinch of mace. For 
variation, scald a piece of celery in the white sauce 
or add a few celery seeds for flavor. 

In making lobster bisque the flesh of the lobster 
should be flaked into small pieces and added to the 

71 



CAROLINE KING'S COOK BOOK 

thin white sauce. Crab bisque is made in the 
same manner. Clams should be sUghtly chopped 
before cooking them. Omit the mace in any of 
these bisques if its flavor is not liked. 

Chowders are scarcely to be regarded as soups, 
though generally so classed. They are in reality 
stews, but it is customary to serve them as a first 
course hke a soup. Chowders originally were made 
only from fish or clams, but such vegetables as 
potatoes and corn answer very well for the purpose 
also, and make very economical dishes. 

If fish is used, select the large, fleshy kind, hke 
cod or haddock, cut it into small pieces, skin and 
bone it, and after making a stock of the bones, use 
the fish as you would the clams. The white stock 
may be used in any of these fish or vegetable chow- 
ders if convenient. 

Foundation Formula for Chowder 

1 quart clams or fish 3 cups milk 

1 quart potatoes cut ia dice 10 crackers 

i pound salt pork 3 cups broth or water 

1 onion 1 tablespoon butter 

Salt, pepper, and paprika 1 tablespoon flour 

Method of Preparation 

Cut the pork in small pieces and fry slowly to 
extract the fat. Add a shced onion to the fat and 
fry brown, then add the onion with the fat to the 
fish stock or the hquor from a quart of clams, and 
add also a cup of cold water. Parboil the potatoes 

72 



SOUPS 

and add to the chowder, with two teaspoons of salt 
and a fourth a teaspoon of pepper. Simmer till 
the potatoes are tender. Pour in three cups of 
scalded milk and thicken with a tablespoon of 
butter and one of flour rubbed to a paste. Add 
the clams and cook for ten minutes. Place ten 
hard crackers, split and buttered, in the bottom of 
a tureen and pour the hot chowder over them. 
Serve at once. 

Vegetable chowders are made on the same foun- 
dation formula, with the exception that two cups 
of water are used in place of the stock or clam liquor. 
Corn should be chopped slightly for a good chowder, 
potatoes merely sliced or cut in dice. 



73 



CHAPTER VI 



SAUCES 



Foundation : Liquid, Flouk, Butter. Seasoning 



fThin 



Sauces 



White 



Thick 



Cream Soups 

Cream 

Celery 

Oyster 

Soubise 

Bechamel 

Allemande, etc. 

' Croquettes 

Souffles 

Mousses 
. Timbales 



Brown 



Tomato : Creole 
Spanish 
Mushroom 
. Piquante 



r Hollandaise : Figaro 
. Drawn Butter < B€amaise : French 
[ Horseradish, etc. 



Almost any dish that is not abeady hopeless may 
be improved if it is dressed with a tasty, well-made 
sauce ; and any very good dish may be made won- 
derfully better if it is accompanied by a smooth, rich, 
deUcately seasoned and nicely flavored sauce. In- 
deed, the sauce is the making of many a dinner. 

74 



SAUCES 

Therefore, too much importance cannot be placed 
on this accessory to good Uving. The sauce should 
be studied and tested, its appropriateness to the 
dish with which it is to be served considered from 
various standpoints, and the sauce itself put together 
with watchful care and nicety of judgment. 

Unfortunately, to many housekeepers, the word 
" sauce ", as regards meats, fish, or vegetables, has 
but one meaning, viz. : a cooked mixture of milk, 
butter, and flour, and not always a well-cooked mix- 
tiire at that. The white sauce is served indiscrim- 
inately with meats, vegetables and, shghtly sweetened 
and flavored, with puddings. 

White sauce is one of the most useful adjuncts to 
good cookery that we have, and I would not seek to 
disparage its use in the proper places, but it is only 
one of three most excellent sauces, each of which 
is capable of many delightful changes and variations. 

If a white sauce is favored, by all means make it 
and serve it frequently, but do not neglect the other 
two, which I will describe a httle later. And be very 
sure that the white sauce which you serve is well 
made, free from lumps, smooth, rich, and slightly 
thickened. Also, that it is daintily flavored and 
nicely seasoned. 

When you are certain of your ability to make 
such a sauce, you have at your finger tips the foun- 
dation for a dozen delicious, novel, and seemingly 
complex sauces. You may, in fact, from your 
foundation white sauce, make a variety of those 

75 



CAROLINE KING'S COOK BOOK 

rich and delicious dressings, the secrets of which 
are supposed to be known only to high-priced chefs. 

The other two sauces of which I will tell you also, 
the brown sauce and the drawn-butter sauce, are 
the foundations for numerous delectable accessories 
to good cookery, each of which is unsurpassed when 
served with the dish or viand with which it most 
agrees. But we will leave those other divisions of 
this interesting subject and return to the white 
sauce, or as it has been appropriately termed, the 
" Mother Sauce." 

The white sauce itself is again divided into two 
classes : the thin white sauce which is used for dress- 
ing vegetables, for making cream soups, and as a 
foundation for other sauces, and the thick white 
sauce which is used in making croquettes, souffles, 
mousses, timbales, and other more complex and 
fancy dishes. Once the foundation sauce with its 
two branches is learned, even the inexperienced 
housewife will not find it a difficult matter to com- 
pass any of these variations. The sauce is the 
chief ingredient in them ; it is the background, as it 
were, for the various flavors, seasonings, and other 
ingredients, and when it is well made, failure is 
impossible. The perfect white sauce is made from 
the following foundation formula : 

Foundation Formula for White Sauce 

1 tablespoon butter J teaspoon salt 

1 tablespoon flour Pepper 

1| cups milk Paprika 

76 




J^^^*^ wrrEB -Wtfi^ 


-1 ' 


^^1 


Hp^ vj ^H 


iii'.„.fea- 




ContTtesy of " Good Housekeepino' 

Croquettes Made from White Sauce Foundation 

1. These ingredients vary the foundation sauces. 

2. A well-made white sauce requires no straining. 

3. Croquettes made upon white sauce foundation. 



SAUCES 

Method of Preparation 

Cook together in a smooth clean saucepan the 
butter and flour; when these are bubbUng, and 
before they have had an opportunity to become even 
a very Httle brown, add a cup and a half of cold 
milk. Stir constantly until the mixture has thick- 
ened, then place the saucepan in hot water, and 
continue cooking for several minutes. When smooth, 
velvety, and well blended, season with one half a 
teaspoon of salt and pepper and paprika to taste, 
and, if wished richer, add a teaspoon of butter. 

The sauce so made will not require straining, but 
will be deUghtfuUy smooth and rich. It may be 
poured over boiled cabbage, asparagus, cauliflower, 
spinach, hma beans, or any of the vegetables that 
one likes dressed with a white sauce ; or it may be 
used as an accompaniment to boiled mutton or fish. 

Cheese Sauce. If a cheese sauce is desired, three 
tablespoons of dairy cheese, grated, is added to the 
sauce just before it it taken from its hot-water 
bath, and the mixture is stirred gently till the cheese 
is melted. A teaspoon of lemon juice added to the 
cheese sauce with an extra dash of paprika will 
make it more pungent and tasty. 

Egg Sauce, for serving with boiled fish, is merely 
the foundation white sauce to which are added the 
whites of two hard-boiled eggs, chopped coarsely. 
The yolks are mashed and stirred into the sauce 
until the whole assumes a golden tinge. 

77 



CAROLINE KING'S COOK BOOK 

Celery Sauce is made in the following way : cut 
in small pieces enough celery to make half a cup. 
Cook this in a cup of water till tender. When 
making the white sauce, use half a cup of the celery 
water with a cup of milk instead of the entire quan- 
tity of milk, adding the chopped and cooked celery 
to the finished product. In every other particular 
follow the general directions for making white sauce. 

Oyster Sauce is made like the celery sauce, the 
oysters being scalded in their own liquor, then 
chopped coarsely, and a half cup of oyster liquor 
substituted for half a cup of milk in the foundation 
recipe. 

Soubise Sauce is merely an onion sauce which 
was named for a French prince who lived many years 
ago. It is made Uke the white sauce except that 
one small onion is sliced and cooked until tender in 
rapidly boihng water. Then it is rubbed through 
a sieve and added to the white sauce. 

Bechamel Sauce is the white sauce foundation to 
which the well-beaten yolks of two eggs are added. 
The sauce is often made with white stock as a 
substitute for milk, or half milk and half white 
stock may be used. To flavor the sauce, cook a 
sUce of onion, a bit of celery, a small piece of bay 
leaf, and a sprig of parsley in it for a few moments, 
then strain and add the egg yolks. Do not cook 
after the yolks have been added or the sauce may 
curdle. 

Sauce Allemande. Add one well-beaten egg 

78 



SAUCES 

and a tablespoon of lemon juice to the white sauce 
foundation. Do not cook after adding the lemon 
juice or the sauce will curdle. 

Parsley Sauce. Add chopped parsley which has 
been washed well and covered with boiUng water for 
three minutes and then drained, to the white sauce. 

Veloute Sauce is made exactly like the white 
sauce, except that one cup of white stock and half 
a cup of thin cream are used ,in place of the milk ad- 
vised in the foundation sauce. 

Asparagus Sauce. Add a cup of asparagus tips 
pressed through a sieve to the white sauce. 

Tomato Cream Sauce. Simmer a cup of toma- 
toes down until only half a cup remains, add a 
pinch of soda to this, and press through a sieve. 
Mix this tomato pur^e with the white foundation 
sauce. 

The thin white sauce is also used in au gratin 
dishes, and these are made of almost any variety 
of vegetable, fish, meats, macaroni, or fowl. The 
article which is to form the chief ingredient in the 
dish is chopped or cut in small pieces. If not pre- 
viously cooked, it is boiled till tender. Then it is 
placed" in a buttered baking dish in layers alter- 
nately with the white sauce. A covering of fine 
bread crumbs dotted with butter and seasoning is 
placed over the top of the dish, which is then baked 
long enough to brown the crumbs nicely. A mere 
grating of mace is an excellent addition to the white 
sauce for an occasional change. 

79 



CAROLINE KING'S COOK BOOK 

Creamed Chicken, Oysters, Potatoes, Salmon, 

Eggs, and various other articles which are frequently 
served in this way are dressed with the thin white 
sauce, after having been previously cooked till 
tender. Oysters are excellent with the touch of 
mace added to the sauce. 

Macaroni or Spaghetti may be dressed with the 
cheese sauce, arranged in a baking dish, covered 
with grated cheese, and baked twenty minutes. 

Potatoes Delmonico are first boiled tender, then 
cut in cubes, covered with the cheese sauce, and 
baked till brown. 

A thin white sauce is also the foundation for 
cream soups, as was explained in a previous chapter. 

Thick White Sauce is quite as useful in its way 
as thin, although it is not used as a sauce, but as the 
foundation for many very good dishes. Croquettes, 
when at their best, have this type of sauce for their 
base. The sauce is made from the following founda- 
tion formula : 

Foundation Formula 

2 tablespoons butter i teaspoon salt 

2i tablespoons flour i teaspoon pepper 

1^ cups milk Paprika 

Method of Preparation 

Cook together, until they bubble, the butter and 
flour. When bubbling, though not brown, add a 
cup and a haK of milk, cook till thick over hot 
water, and season with half a teaspoon of salt, one 
fourth a teaspoon of pepper, and paprika to taste. 

80 



SAUCES 

If croquettes are to be made, cooked chicken or 
other fowl, fish of any variety, meat, hard-boiled 
eggs, or cheese cut in small dice may be used. Two 
cups of chopped meat, chicken, or fish, or other prod- 
ucts should be allowed for the quantity of sauce 
given, and mixed with it just before it is removed 
from the fire. With salmon, lobster, oysters, and 
some meats, or with cheese, it is well to add just 
a few drops of lemon juice to the mixture after it is 
taken from the fire. More seasoning may also be 
added, together with a teaspoon of butter if the 
dish is wished more rich. 

Pour the croquette mixture into a flat dish and 
allow it to become quite cool. Then shape in small 
oval cakes or balls. Roll these in well-beaten 
egg that has been strained, and then in fine sifted 
bread crumbs. Let them stand for a few minutes 
to become dry and slightly firm, then fry in deep 
boiUng fat to a nice brown. This is the recipe for 
all croquettes. Sometimes they are made more 
elaborate by the addition of chopped mushrooms, 
cream is used in place of milk in making the sauce, 
or part cream and part white stock is used ; or the 
well-beaten yolks of two eggs are added to the white 
sauce. But in the essentials they are not changed. 
Therefore, when one has learned to make a good 
thick white sauce, one commands the secret of all 
fine croquettes. 

Souffles are also made from the thick white sauce. 
To the foundation recipe add a cup of chicken, fish, 

81 



CAROLINE KING'S COOK BOOK 

vegetable, cheese, or whatever is desired to give 
distinctiveness to the souffl6, then beat in the well- 
whipped yolks of three eggs, add more seasoning if 
desired, and fold in the stiflEly beaten whites of the 
eggs. Pour the mixture into a buttered pudding 
dish, stand this in a pan of hot water, and bake for 
twenty-five minutes in a slow oven. Souffles are 
very nice baked in individual dishes or ramekins. 
A very little lemon juice is a good addition to a 
cheese souffle, a pinch of mace to a chicken or oyster 
souffle. One point must be remembered when mak- 
ing souffles — they must be served immediately after 
taken from the oven; a few moments' delay will 
prove fatal to their appearance. 

Timbales are simple of construction, though gen- 
erally classed with fancy cookery. Chicken, fish, 
boiled ham, green peas, and asparagus are most often 
selected for making timbales. The meat or vegetable 
is pounded to a paste, then mixed with the thick 
white sauce, allowing one cup of chopped mixture 
to one and a half cups of sauce to make it moist. 
One egg yolk is also added and the mixture is seasoned 
with salt, pepper, paprika, and, if desired, nutmeg or 
mace. When well blended, it is placed in the re- 
frigerator to become very cold. The timbale molds, 
which are small, high tins, usually of individual size, 
are oiled and lined with pimentos cut in fancy 
shapes, cooked peas, or bread crumbs; the center 
is filled with the timbale mixture, to which chopped 
mushrooms are sometimes added. They are then 

82 



SAUCES 

placed in a pan of hot water and cooked gently for 
fifteen minutes. When done, the timbales are 
turned out on a platter, garnished, and served with 
a Bechamel or AUemande sauce. 

A Mousse is not unUke a timbale ; a cup of meat 
or chicken or fish is chopped very fine, then pounded 
to a paste. A cup of white or Bechamel sauce is 
added, also the whipped white of one egg, and a 
cup of whipped cream. It is seasoned to taste, 
placed in small molds, and cooked in hot water. 
Let stand in the mold for a few moments before 
turning out. 

Brown Sauce Foundation is almost, though not 
quite, as useful as the white. From it are derived 
a great many rich, spicy, pungent sauces, which 
will enhance many a dish. Brown sauce is made 
in much the same manner as the white. 

Foundation Formula for Brown Sauce 

1 tablespoon flour | teaspoon salt 

1 tablespoon butter Pepper 

li oups liquid Paprika 

Method of Preparation 

Melt the butter over the fire until it is a bright 
rich brown, but be very careful not to allow it to 
burn. Add the flour and cook together until smooth 
and bubbhng, then pour in a cup and a half of brown 
stock, or milk, or even water. If water is used, it is 
well to add also a teaspoon of meat extract or a 

83 



CAROLINE KING'S COOK BOOK 

beef cube. Stir till smooth, and season with one 
half a teaspoon of salt and a dash each of paprika 
and pepper. If you wish, you may flavor the brown 
sauce by cooking a sUce of onion and a bit of celery 
in the butter before adding the flour. Remove the 
vegetables before the flour is added, and proceed 
as in the plain brown sauce. 

When Tomato Sauce is desired, substitute tomato 
juice for any other liquid in making the brown sauce. 
Tomato sauce is finer when the onion and celery 
are used for flavoring. 

Creole Sauce. Tomato sauce in its turn may be 
transformed into Creole sauce, which is particularly 
good with pork chops, or other meat, or with fish. 
Simply add a finely chopped green pepper to the 
tomato sauce and cook over hot water for fifteen 
minutes. 

Spanish Sauce is obtained by cooking in enough 
water to cover them, a slice of carrot, a tablespoon 
of parsley, each finely chopped, and a bit of bay 
leaf and onion, then adding them to the brown 
sauce, which is served with meats. 

Mushroom Sauce is one of the finest of all sauces. 
Make it from your brown sauce foundation by add- 
ing half a dozen mushrooms, cut in small pieces and 
cooked in a Uttle butter, to the brown sauce. 

Sauce Piquante. One small pickle chopped fine, 
one tablespoon of capers, a teaspoon of chopped 
chives, and a tablespoon of vinegar added to the 
brown sauce will transform it into a dehghtful sauce 

84 



SAUCES 

piquante. This is delicious with steak, baked or 
fried Uver, or lamb chops. 

Currant Jelly Sauce for serving with roast lamb, 
venison, duck, and other game is made by mixing 
one fourth of a cup of currant jelly and a teaspoon 
of lemon juice with a cup of brown sauce. 

Olive Sauce. Chop fine half a dozen pitted olives 
and add to the brown sauce. This is very nice with 
roast duck. 

Drawn-butter Sauce is the third of the foundation 
sauces. It is made in much the same manner as the 
thin white sauce, except that water is used in place 
of the milk. It differs only in this respect : that 
after the sauce is cooked to the thick smooth stage, 
a tablespoon of butter is added in small pieces and 
beaten in thoroughly. The sauce is seasoned Uke 
white sauce. In its plainest form, drawn-butter 
sauce is useful in serving with fish, cauliflower, 
boiled mutton, boiled fowl, or corned beef. 

Cucumber Sauce is often served with fish. It 
is made by adding a cup of chopped cucumber 
pickles to the drawn-butter sauce. 

Caper Sauce is served with boiled mutton or fish. 
To make it, add one fourth of a cup of capers to the 
drawn-butter sauce. 

Hollandaise Sauce. Add the well-beaten yolks of 
two or three eggs, a tablespoon of lemon juice, and 
a few grains of cayenne to the drawn-butter sauce. 
This is very fine with cauUflower or asparagus. 

Horseradish grated. Shrimps or Lobster cut in 

85 



CAROLINE KING'S COOK BOOK 

small pieces, or chopped Hard-boUed Eggs, each gives 
its name to the sauce when added to it in propor- 
tions to suit the demand. 

B€amaise Sauce is made by adding a tablespoon 
of finely chopped parsley, a grating of onion, a few 
grains of cayenne, the yolks of three eggs, and a 
tablespoon of vinegar to the drawn-butter sauce. 
An additional tablespoon of butter is also added for 
a fine dish. This sauce is frequently served with 
broiled steak. 

Sauce Figaro. Add two tablespoons of strained 
tomato pulp and a teaspoon of finely chopped pars- 
ley to the HoUandaise sauce, also a teaspoon of 
Worcestershire sauce. 

French Sauce. Add a cup of tomato pulpf to the 
B6arnaise sauce. 

It will not be necessary to learn the recipes for 
any of the foregoing, but the three foundations. 
When these are mastered, and a perfect white, brown, 
or drawn-butter sauce is produced, the variations 
will be a very simple matter to undertake. 



86 



CHAPTER VII 



SALAD DRESSINGS 



Foundation : Oil — Acid — Seasonings 



' With Vinegar 



Salad Dressings 



French 



Parisian 

Roquefort 

Vinaigrette 



With Fruit Juice 
Chantilly 
ChiSonade 
Russian Sauce 
Mayonnaise | Tartare Sauce 
Ravigote 
Sauce Tyroliemie 
, Fluffy Dressing 

Russian 



Cooked 



Made with Oil 



Chantilly 

Chiffonade 

Tartare,ete. 



Made with Butter 
Whipped Cream Dressing 



A true epicure will tell you that there is but one 
dressing for a salad, the same which the old Latins 
used on their lettuce and cucumbers, merely a 
liberal quantity of good pure oil, a small quantity 
of vinegar or fruit juice, and a judicious sprinkling 
of salt. He will tell you that the complex mixtures 
which are served on the salads of the present day 
are not salad dressings at all, but strange concoctions 

87 



CAROLINE KING'S COOK BOOK 

invented by ambitious chefs to add renown to their 
names, but not worthy of the consideration of a 
discerning gourmet. 

It is true that the old Romans and Latins used 
the oU of the olive mixed judiciously with vinegar 
and salt on their green herbs and vegetables, and 
regarded it quite fine enough for their feasts and 
banquets, but it is not such a far cry from simple 
salads of those times to the many and varied dress- 
ings and sauces which are so popular to-day. 

The simple oil dressing was used for centuries, 
until Cardinal Richelieu, who was famous for his 
love of good eating as well as for his states- 
manship, thinking to improve it, added the yolk 
of an egg and a pinch of mustard, and uncon- 
sciously originated the mayonnaise. Therefore, 
while I have divided all salad dressings into three 
classes in the outline which preceded this chapter, 
there are in reality but two, for the mayonnaise is 
after all but a development of the French dressing. 
But because it is commonly regarded as a very dif- 
ferent type and one that is difficult to attain per- 
fection in making, its origin has been lost sight of 
and it is now placed in a distinct and separate 
division. 

The boiled dressing has grown in popularity of 
late; it is a very convenient salad dressing, as it 
may be made in quantities and kept in a cool place 
for several weeks. 

Each of these classes of dressings may be de- 

88 



SALAD DRESSINGS 

veloped into a great many special varieties, so that 
w^3n one has learned to make the three foundation 
.pressings perfectly, one may without the least 
timidity attempt any of these delicious though 
seemingly complex types which are at once the de- 
light and despair of the housewife. A sauce ravigote, 
for instance, would appear to be quite beyond the 
knowledge of the average cook, but it is no more 
difficult to achieve than a simple dressing of oil and 
salt, when one has learned the foundation formula 
and correct additions for its manufacture. It is 
the same with all of the other rich, pungent, or 
savory dressings. Their intricacies disappear Uke 
snow in the sunshine, when the subject is clearly 
comprehended. The French is the most easily 
made of all the salad dressings. It is, as I ex- 
plained before, but a survival of the old Latin's 
method of dressing his herbs. In fact, the very 
name " salad " is derived from the Latin " salare," 
which means to salt. 

Olive oil is the main ingredient in a French dress- 
ing. This should always be of the best quaUty, 
if the salad is to be perfect. The oil may be Italian, 
French, Spanish, or Californian, but it must be 
deUcate, fine, and of the first pressing of the ohve. 
Other vegetable oils may be used in cooked dressings, 
but do not attempt to use them in a French dressing, 
for it will lack the delicacy and smoothness which 
a fine French dressing should possess, if made with 
inferior oil. 

89 



CAROLINE KING'S COOK BOOK 

Vinegar, too, is of great importance in making a 
French dressing. This may be malt, cider, or wine, 
as you please, but it should be sharp and pure and 
of the best quality. 

Tarragon vinegar is hked by many persons, and 
it is sometimes pleasant to vary the flavor of the 
dressing by substituting it for the ordinary vinegar. 
Tarragon is a httle French herb which is now grown 
in many of the market gardens in this country. A 
sprig of this herb is boiled in a small quantity of 
vinegar, and this is then strained and added to the 
vinegar until it is flavored as desired. 

French dressing is often made at the table while 
the salad course is being served. This is a very 
good plan, as it is always wise to serve the dressing 
as soon as mixed for it is impossible to prevent it 
from separating in a short time. 



Foundation Formula for French Dressing 

3 tablespoons olive oil § teaspoon salt 

1 tablespoon vinegar J teaspoon pepper 

Cayenne Paprika 



Method of Preparation 

Place a small lump of ice in a cold bowl and add 
the salt, pepper, and paprika, and one tablespoon 
of oil ; with a fork stir the ice around until the salt 
is dissolved. Then add half a tablespoon of vinegar 

90 



SALAD DRESSINGS 

and continue stirring. The dressing will immedi- 
ately thicken, and the rest of the oil may be added, 
also the pepper, a dash of paprika, and a very few 
grains of cayenne. Add the rest of the vinegar, 
stir well. A perfect emulsion will result, but the 
dressing must be served at once, or it will become 
thin and watery. If by any chance it must be made 
some time before it is used, place near the ice, and 
just before serving, beat vigorously with a small egg 
beater. 

This dressing is suitable for lettuce, cucumbers, 
tomatoes, cress, asparagus, and many other vege- 
tables. If a larger quantity is desired, increase the 
quantities of the ingredients proportionately. 

French Dressing with Fruit Jtiice. For a fruit 
salad, the French dressing will be more suitable if 
made with the juice of lemon or grapefruit in place 
of vinegar. Grapefruit and lettuce salad is espe- 
cially fine dressed in this way. 

Now let us take up the development and varia- 
tions of the French dressing. 

Vinaigrette Dressing is a very popular form of 
dressing ; it is made by adding a teaspoon of chopped 
capers, one chopped gherkin, a teaspoon of chopped 
parsley, a single grating of onion, and a teaspoon 
of chopped green pepper to a cup of French dress- 
ing. If it is possible to obtain chervil and tarragon, 
half a teaspoon of each of these herbs, also chopped 
fine, may be added to the dressing. Vinaigrette 
sauce is used on asparagus salad, fish, cold meats, 

91 



CAROLINE KING'S COOK BOOK 

whole tomatoes stuffed with celery or other vege- 
tables, and various other dishes. 

Roquefort Dressing is appropriate for all green 
salads. It is made by adding three tablespoons of 
grated or mashed Roquefort cheese to one cup of 
the French dressing, together with enough paprika 
tp produce a decided red tint. 

Parisian Dressing. Add three stuffed olives 
chopped fine and a tablespoon of chopped chives 
or small green onions to a cup of French dress- 
ing. 

This foundation formula for French dressing may 
also be varied by adding a Uttle cxirry powder, 
Worcestershire sauce, minced chives, minced oUves, 
boned and mashed sardines, or chopped green pepper 
or pirn nto. The salad dressing derives its name 
from tht 'ngredient which flavors it. All of these 
combinations are of course only possible when the 
dressing is made with vinegar ; the acid of the fruit 
juices will not combine well with these flavors. 

Mayonnaise Dressing has in some way or other 
attained the reputation of being very difficult to 
make successfully, and it is a fact that although it is 
really a simple undertaking, many fail utterly in its 
making. The reasons for these failures are either 
lack of care in having all the ingredients of the same 
temperature, or adding the oil too qmckly or in too 
large quantities. The egg yolk will only absorb a 
certain amount of oil at one time, so it is imperative 
that it be carefully and deliberately added. 

92 



SALAD DRESSINGS 

Foundation Formula for Mayonnaise Dressing 

1 raw egg yolk Dash of pepper 

i teaspoon salt Dash of paprika 

Few drops lemon juiee Few grains cayenne 
J pint olive oil 5 tablespoons sharp vinegar 

Mustard if desired 

Method of Preparation 

It is essential that everything used in making the 
mayonnaise be of the same temperature. It is not 
absolutely necessary that all the ingredients and 
utensils be very cold, but it is better for one not 
widely versed in salad making to chill them, as this 
method makes success more assured. Select a clean, 
smooth, rather deep bowl, a small wooden paddle, 
or, as it is sometimes called, a French mayonnaise 
spoon, and place these with the oil, vinegar, and egg 
in the refrigerator for several horn's before beginning 
the dressing. If time presses, stand all in ice water 
for fifteen minutes. Then break the egg and place 
the yolk in the cold bowl, stand the bowl in a pan of 
ice water, and stir in half a teaspoon of salt. Stir 
till the salt is dissolved and the tegg sUghtly thick- 
ened. Then add a few drops of lemon juice, a 
dash each of pepper and paprika, and a few grains 
of cayenne. 

Stir once more until all of the ingredients have 
become well blended. Now begin adding the oil, 
a drop at a time, stirring constantly. When several 
teaspoons of oil have been added, a few drops of 

93 



CAROLINE KING'S COOK BOOK 

vinegar may be stirred in, then the oil dropped in 
as before. The mixture will become very thick and 
unmanageable as the oil is added, and when this 
occurs the vinegar may be stirred in a very little at 
a time. To hasten matters, a small egg beater may 
be used after a cup of oil has been added, and the 
success of the dressing is assured. When three 
fourths of a pint of oil and five tablespoons of vinegar 
have been used, the dressing should be thick and 
creamy. It may be seasoned more highly and a 
Uttle mustard added if Uked. 

If, as sometimes happens, the mayonnaise should 
begin to curdle, put it aside, and begin the process 
again with a fresh egg yolk. When this has become 
smooth and thick and about a tablespoon of oil has 
been added, the curdled dressing may be stirred in 
a httle at a time, and the dressing finished as usual. 
It will be quite as smooth and fine as though no mis- 
take had occurred. By adding lemon juice to the 
egg yolks before the oil is mixed with them, the 
habiUty of curdUng is lessened. 

Mayonnaise, when well made, is smooth and thick 
and will not separate even though kept for several 
days. It may be colored in various ways to suit 
the demands of the occasion. Red mayonnaise is 
made by adding two or three tablespoons of strained 
tomato juice, cooked till thick, to the dressing; 
green mayonnaise by adding spinach juice or vege- 
table paste. If a jelhed mayonnaise is desired, add 
one half an ounce of gelatine dissolved in a very 

94 



SALAD DRESSINGS 

little water to the mayonnaise after it has become 
thick and smooth and all the ingredients have been 
added. 

Sauce Tartare is a delicious dressing for fried fish, 
deviled crabs, soft-shelled crabs, fried oysters, cold 
meats, tomatoes, or many other salads. It is made 
by adding two tablespoons each of chopped capers, 
cucumber pickles, olives, and parsley, a very Uttle 
grated onion, and a teaspoon of mustard mixed with 
vinegar to two cups of mayonnaise. 

Chantilly Dressing. By mixing a tablespoon of 
horseradish with a cup and a half of mayonnaise, 
Chantilly sauce is made. It is used like the tartare 
sauce. 

Sauce Tyrolienne. Add half a cup of chili sauce 
to the same amount of mayonnaise and when well 
mixed stir in half a cup of whipped cream. 

Sauce Ravigote. Add a grating of onion, a table- 
spoon of chopped chives, a tablespoon of chopped 
parsley, and a tablespoon each of chopped tarragon 
and chervil to a cup and a half of mayonnaise. 
This sauce is dehcious with crab, lobster, or other 
shellfish. 

Russian Salad Dressing. Add an equal quantity 
of chih sauce to the mayonnaise, and a tablespoon 
each of chopped peppers, chopped chives, and 
chopped and stoned olives. 

Chiffonade Dressing. Add two tablespoons of 
chopped parsley, two of chopped pepper, and one of 
chopped pimento, and one small onion chopped fine 

95 



CAROLINE KING'S COOK BOOK 

to a cup of mayonnaise and stir in enough paprika 
to make the dressing quite red. 

Fluffy Dressing. Beat the white of the egg left 
from making the mayonnaise to a stiff froth and fold 
in the dressing. 

The cooked dressing, which is the third type of 
salad dressing, is liked by many persons who do 
not care for the taste of oUve oil, for this dressing, 
although in many respects resembling a mayon- 
naise, may be made by substituting butter for the 
oil. When made with oil', however, it is richer and 
more appropriate for the use to which it is to be put. 
Besides, the taste of the oil is made almost imper- 
ceptible by the heat in cooking. 

Foundation Formula for Cooked Dressing with Oil 

2 raw egg yolks J cup milk or cream 

I teaspoon salt 1 cup oil 

1 teaspoon sugar 4 tablespoons vinegar 

1 teaspoon dry mustard Few grains cayenne 

J teaspoon pepper 

Method of Preparation 

Mix together the salt, sugar, mustard, pepper, 
and paprika and add the egg yolks. Beat well, 
then add the cream or milk, the oil, and vinegar. 
Beat till well blended. Place the saucepan in boil- 
ing water and cook till thick and smooth, beating 
constantly with the egg beater. Remove from the 
fire the moment it has thickened or the dressing 
will be apt to curdle. Beat while cooUng, adding 

96 



SALAD DRESSINGS 

an additional half cup of oil during the process. 
If wished more tart, a little more vinegar may be 
added. A very little cayenne adds to the piquancy 
of the dressing. This dressing may be poured into 
a glass jar and kept for several weeks in a cool place. 
It is a very convenient dressing because of this 
feature. 

Foundation Fonnula for Salad Dressing without Oil 

2 raw egg yolks Cayenne 

or I teaspoon dry mustard 

1 whole egg J teaspoon pepper 

1 cup sweet or sour cream 1 tablespoon melted butter 

i teaspoon salt 4 tablespoons vinegar 

Paprika 

Method of Preparation 

Beat the egg yolks or the whole egg to a stiff froth 
with the sugar, salt, mustard, pepper, and paprika. 
Add the cream and melted butter and beat again ; 
pour in the vinegar and cook over hot water till 
thick. Remove from the fire and beat hard while 
cooling. Additional vinegar may be added if de- 
sired more sharp, and a few grains of cayenne will 
improve it. By adding a spoonful of grated onion 
to this dressing a pleasing change is afforded. Either 
of the cooked dressings may be varied in the same 
manner as the mayonnaise, and will make excellent 
foundations for the herbs, seasonings, and other 
ingredients which are to be added. 

Another boiled dressing which is most desirable 

97 



CAROLINE KING'S COOK BOOK 

for fruit salads is the whipped cream dressing, or, as 
I have named it. Suffrage Salad Dressing, because 
of its delightful yellow tint. It, too, may be varied 
in several ways. 

Foundation Formula for Suffrage Salad Dressing 

2 eggs i teaspoon salt 

4 tablespoons sugar i teaspoon paprika 

1 tablespoon mustard i teaspoon pepper 

4 tablespoons vinegar 1 cup whipped cream 

Method of Preparation 

Mix all of the ingredients together with the ex- 
ception of the cream. Beat briskly till well blended, 
then cook over hot water till thick. Pour into a 
jar and stand in a cold place. When cold, add one 
or two tablespoons of the foundation dressing to a 
cup of whipped cream. Whip together thoroughly 
so that the dressing and cream are well incorporated. 
Be careful to whip the cream till very stiff and dry, 
otherwise it will dilute the dressing and make it thin. 
Do not serve the stock for the dressing alone, as it 
is too strong. It must be added to the cream for 
perfect results. The foundation stock may be made 
and kept for several weeks, the cream being added 
as desired. For variation, add two tablespoons of 
chopped pimentos to the Suffrage Salad Dressing. 

A word as to the salads themselves before we leave 
the subject of salad dressings. A perfect salad 
should be the result of inspiration, not a product 

98 



SALAD DRESSINGS ; 

made from a cut and dried recipe. It should be a 
picture, and like a picture should not be made, ex- 
cept in a general way, according to rules. Imagina- 
tion and originality and a nice sense of harmony of 
flavors and colors will enable one to make a tempting 
and deUcious salad from the simplest of materials. 
With a few fresh lettuce leaves, a tomato, or onion, 
or an apple and a few nuts, or perhaps a can of 
salmon or sardines, the woman who is gifted with 
these qualities will evolve a salad that will be not 
only a study in'color contrasts, but a very delectable 
dish as well. 

In general, it should be remembered that a simple 
green or fruit salad with a French dressing, or one of 
its variations, is most suitable for a dinner salad. 
A bowl of romaine, lettuce, or endive, or even 
cress or dandeUon, with a simple dressing, and 
served with toasted wafers will be far more refresh- 
ing and in better taste after a roast than any of the 
more fanciful or complex salads. The following sug- 
gestions are offered for decorative salads. These 
may be served appropriately at a luncheon, a very 
simple dinner, or a late supper. 

Butterfly Salad. Border individual plates with 
lettuce leaves or cress. Lay a sUce of pineapple, 
cut in halves and placed with the curved edges to- 
gether, on the lettuce ; on the pineapple place shces 
of bright red apple, unpeeled, and with the curved 
edges placed together also. Over the apple sUces 
arrange orange slices in the same manner. These 

99 



CAROLINE KING'S COOK BOOK 

will form the wings of the butterfly. For the body 
use Tokay grapes cut in halves lengthwise and 
make the feelers from strips of pimento. Serve 
with Suffrage Salad Dressing, 

Salad a la Caroline. Cook one half a cup of rice 
in a quart of rapidly boiling salted water till tender. 
Then rinse with cold water. Pick over a pint of 
boiled shrimps and break into pieces. Mix with 
the rice and dress with boiled salad dressing. Ar- 
range in a salad bowl lined with water cress. Garnish 
with the whites of hard-boiled eggs cut in fancy 
shapes with a French vegetable cutter and press 
the yolks through a sieve over the salad. 

Tipperary Salad. Mash a cream cheese to a 
paste with a little cream and add to it a tablespoon 
of chopped nut meats; make into Uttle balls and 
decorate each with a bit of green pepper cut to 
resemble a shamrock leaf. Place these balls on 
lettuce leaves and serve with French dressing. 

Tomatoes Stuffed with Celery Mayonnaise. Scald 
and peel large, well-shaped tomatoes, then scoop 
out most of the pulp from them. Select the 
white tender stalks from a bunch of celery and cut 
them into very small pieces. Wash them and 
place in a bowl of ice water to which a Uttle lemon 
juice has been added to keep the pieces white. 
When ready to use, drain and dry the celery and 
mix it wjth mayonnaise dressing, fill the tomato cups, 
and stand each on crisp inside leaves of lettuce. 
Place a spoonful of mayonnaise on each tomato. 

100 




CouTttsy of *' Good jiomckecpi/ig" 

Salad a la Caroline 




courtesy oj "Good Housekeeping" 

Potato Salad with Beets 



SALAD DRESSINGS 

Spring Salad. Slice peeled Spanish onions very 
thin and soak them in ice water for an hour. Then 
drain and wipe dry. Serve on lettuce leaves with 
thinly sliced green peppers and vinaigrette dressing. 
Garnish with pimentos cut in rings or disks. 

Potato Salad. Boil ten small potatoes in their 
jackets, salting them when nearly done. Drain and 
cool thoroughly. Then peel and chop quite fine with 
half a green pepper freed from its seeds, two hard- 
boiled eggs, three small cooked beets, six spiced 
pickled cucumbers, and two tablespoonfuls of walnut- 
kernels boiled in salted water for five minutes, then 
drained, and chilled in cold water. The green pepper 
may be omitted. Mix the ingredients well and season 
with pepper, salt, and paprika. Moisten with a good 
boiled salad dressing, pack into a wet mold, and set 
away to chUl. When ready to serve, line a dish with 
lettuce leaves, or if no lettuce is available it may be 
omitted, and turn the salad out on it. With a broad 
knife mask the whole of the salad with the dressing, 
as though icing a cake. Halve the smallest gherkins 
and place them star fashion on top of the mold, 
stick a sprig of parsley or the tiny inside leaves of 
the lettuce in the very center. Cut stars of red beets 
and arrange about the sides of the mold. Halved 
walnuts may be used as a garnish if preferred. Serve 
the salad as cold as possible, and pass the dressing. 



101 



CHAPTER VIII 



CAKE ICINGS AND FILLINGS 



Foundation: Sugar — Liquid — Egg Whites 



Icings and Fillings . 



Uncooked 



Water 



r Plain 

T„i„„ J Coffee 
Icing < ^ 



Cooked 



Fillings 



Chocolate 
I Fruit Juice 
r Royal 
Soft Icing < lee Cream 
[Fruit-Fluff 
f Fruit 
Butter Icing < Mocha 
l. Cocoa 
CoGoanut 
Fruit 
Meringue 
MarshmaUow 
Pineapple 

{Maple 
Coffee 
Chocolate 
Lemon 
Orange 
Marlborough 
Strawberry 
Fig 
. Custard 



iThe time has passed when a cake was simply 
" frosted " with a white sugar icing, or coated with 
a thick chocolate dressing, or occasionally sprinkled 

102 



CAKE ICINGS AND FILLINGS 

with chopped nuts or cocoanut. To-day we have 
as many varieties of icings and fillings as we have 
of cakes, and new kinds which provide even more 
scope for the imagination are being continually 
added to the hst. 

The simple white icing composed of the egg 
white and powdered sugar, while not displaced by 
the more complicated and decorative compositions, 
is not seen as frequently now as it was a generation 
ago, and the once so popular chocolate filling is so 
changed and unproved that it resembles a fine bon- 
bon rather than an icing. The boiled frosting of 
a few years ago is embellished in a dozen ways, mak- 
ing all sorts of new and delicious variations with 
which to enhance our cakes. And in addition to 
those I have mentioned, several other icings and 
fillings have been introduced, so that to-day the 
ornamentations and accessories with which we deck 
our cakes are as important and varied as the cakes 
themselves. 

A few foundation recipes, however, form the basis 
of all these delectable accompaniments to our most 
delicious cakes, and when the housewife has learned 
them, she will be able to produce as dainty and 
handsome a loaf or layer cake as any French con- 
fectioner. The matter of developing the foundation 
formulae is both simple and interesting. 

There are but two varieties of foundation icings : 
those which are made of raw materials and used 
uncooked, and those which require cooking. On 

103 



CAROLINE KING'S COOK BOOK 

these two foundations are built all of the innumer- 
able fancy or rich or delicate icings one could wish. 

Of the uncooked icings, there are three divisions, as 
shown in the outline at the beginning of this chapter : 
The water icing, which is used for plain cakes, buns, 
coffee cakes, brioche, gingerbread, and occasionally 
the small patty cakes which are served with after- 
noon tea, or lemonade. Soft icing, which is a sur- 
vival of the oldtime sugar and egg-white icing, is 
the second, and butter icing, which is useful both as 
a filling and an icing, and may be flavored variously, 
is the third. 

Water icing, although so simple and unpretentious, 
is capable of many changes. It is made on a foun- 
dation composed as follows : 

Foundation Formula for Water Icing 

1^ cups confectioner's sugar 3 tablespoons warm water 
Flavoring 

Method of Preparation 

Rub the sugar till free from all lumps, then add 
the water very gradually, using no more than is 
actually required for making a paste. When the 
icing is of the proper consistency, it will coat a spoon 
nicely. Flavor with a few drops of vanilla extract, 
lemon juice, rose, or almond. Be very careful to 
have the flavor very delicate. This icing may be 
tinted delicately with vegetable coloring; a very 
little pink, yellow, or green taken from the jar on 

104 



CAKE ICINGS AND FILLINGS 

the point of a toothpick will be sufficient to produce 
a pleasing color. Now for the variations of the 
water icing. 

Fruit Icings are the most popular, I think, and 
they are very fine and easily made. Mix the 
sugar (one and a half cups) with three tablespoons 
of orange, strawberry, raspberry, or pineapple jmce, 
and add no water or other flavoring. The straw- 
berry and raspberry fillings are delicious with a 
fresh sponge cake or rusks. Cream puffs and brioche 
are also very nice when iced with the fruit icing. 
Juices from canned fruits may be substituted for 
the fresh if more convenient. 

Chocolate Water Icing is made by adding half 
an ounce of melted chocolate to the original recipe 
for water icing. Spread this on gingerbread if you 
wish a very unusual and delicious cake. 

Coffee Icing. Mix the confectioner's sugar Avith 
three tablespoons of strong, clear, black coffee and 
add a few drops of vanilla. 

One precaution must be taken when using water 
icings, if you wish them to be perfect. If your cake 
is only partially cooled, have the icing very cold 
when spreading it ; if the cake is cool, use the icing 
hot, then it will not be absorbed by the cake. It 
may be found, too, that a little more or a httle less 
liquid is required in blending the sugar to a thin 
paste; this must be determined when making the 
icing. 

Soft Icing is perhaps the best known of the un- 

105 



CAROLINE KING'S COOK BOOK 

cooked icings, and is made in various ways. It is 
a combination always of the egg white, confectioner's 
sugar and a little water, and flavoring. 

Foundation Formula for Soft Icings 

1 egg white 1 tablespoon lemon juioe 

1 tablespoon cold water Confectioner's sugar to 

make correct consistency 

Method of Preparation 

Mix the egg white, lemon juice, and part of the 
sugar, and stir till well mixed, then add the rest 
of the sugar very gradually and stir constantly 
until the icing is fine grained and white. If beaten 
with the egg beater, less sugar will be required, but 
the finished product will not be so creamy and soft. 
Flavor with coffee, vanilla, almond, or as desired, 
but omit the lemon juice and substitute another 
tablespoon of cold water for it. This icing is known 
to confectioners as royal icing. 

Ice Cream Icing is but another form of the icing 
and more easily made perhaps. Beat the whites of 
two eggs to a partial froth and then very gradually 
beat in a cup of confectioner's sugar and add half a 
teaspoonful of vanilla or almond extract. Beat the 
mixture vigorously, using a large egg beater and 
deep bowl, or a confectioner's whisk and a platter. 
The icing should be smooth, shining, and extremely 
light and fluffy when flnished. Ice cream icing will 
never become hard on a cake, but is easily spread 

106 



CAKE ICINGS AND FILLINGS 

over the sides and top and makes a thick, soft, de- 
lightful icing for a white cake or a layer cake. 

Fruit-Fluff Icing is not unlike the ice cream icing. 
Beat the white of one egg to a partial froth and 
add half a cup of crushed strawberries, raspberries, 
or peaches. Do not strain the fruit, but crush it 
well. Beat the egg white and fruit for a few seconds, 
then add gradually a cup of confectioner's sugar. 
Beat vigorously now until the icing is thick and 
fluffy. This will make sufficient quantity for the 
top, sides, and filhng of a two-layer cake. A cake 
iced with fruit-fluff icing should be served with a 
fork. 

Butter Icings are a comparatively new form of 
the uncooked icing, and to many they are the most 
acceptable of all. They should never be spread on 
a hot cake, however, as the butter will be absorbed 
by the cake. 

Foundation Formula for Butter Icings 

2 tablespoons butter Yolk of 1 egg 

1 oup confectioner's sugar Flavoring 

Additional sugar as necessary 

Method of Preparation 

Wash the butter in cold water to remove the salt, 
then press all of the water from it, and cream it to 
a soft mass with a wooden spoon. Add the sugar 
gradually and also the yolk of one egg beaten to a 
froth. 

107 



CAROLINE KING'S COOK BOOK 

Mocha Butter Icing. To the foundation icing, 
add three tablespoons of hot, clear, strong coffee 
and half a teaspoon of vanilla. Then stir in enough 
confectioner's sugar to make of the proper consist- 
ency to spread. 

Cocoa Butter Icing. Make this like the mocha 
icing, adding two tablespoons of cocoa to the coffee 
while the latter is hot. Flavor also with half a 
teaspoon of vanilla. 

Strawberry Butter Icing. Follow the foundation 
formula but omit the egg, and add instead half a 
cup of strawberries, crushed and pressed through a 
sieve. Raspberry, peach, or other fruit icings are 
made Uke the strawberry icing. It may be necessary 
to add more sugar in making fruit icings. 

A simple form of butter icing is made by following 
the foundation formula, but omitting the egg yolk 
and adding instead two tablespoons of boiling water. 
If not stiff enough, additional sugar should be stirred 
into the mixture, which should be well beaten. 

Cooked Icing. This is the second type of cake 
icing, and is possible of even wider developments 
than the uncooked. It may be transformed into 
various fruit icings ; it may take the form of a heavy 
meringue; it may be colored and flavored with 
cocoa or chocolate, or with maple or coffee, or it 
may be made into a delicious caramel icing. I 
wish every housewife who desires to make really 
fine cakes and icings could be induced to purchase 
a syrup thermometer. With such an instrument 

108 



CAKE ICINGS AND FILLINGS 

success is almost assured, while the more common 
method of testing the syrup is always uncertain. 
A syrup gage will tell you the exact moment when 
the sugar and water have cooked sufl&ciently. 

Foundation Formula for Boiled Icing 

1 oup granulated sugar White of 1 egg 

3 oup water Flavoring 

Method of Preparation 

Pour the hot water over the sugar and stir till 
dissolved, then bring to the boiling point, and cook 
until a thread is formed when the syrup is dropped 
from the end of a spoon, or fork. Beat the white of 
one egg to a stiff dry froth, and pour the syrup very 
gradually over it, beating all the time. When well 
cooled, flavor as desired, and spread over the cake. 

This all sounds very easy, but there are pitfalls 
for the unwary which do not exist when making the 
uncooked icing. In the first place, the syrup must 
not be stirred during the boiling process or it will 
granulate and very likely turn to sugar when poured 
on to the egg white. Therefore, when testing it to 
ascertain if it has reached the threading stage, 
merely dip a fork into it and lift it in the air ; if 
the syrup is sufficiently cooked, it will drop from the 
tines of the fork, leaving a wavy, fairylike thread 
behind it. 

If a syrup thermometer is used, the syrup will 
be ready for the egg when the gage registers 238° F. 

109 



\ 



CAROLINE KING'S COOK BOOK 

You see, there is no guesswork about the matter 
with such an instrument. 

Then, too, when the syrup is poured over the egg 
white, it must be done gradually, and the mixture 
beaten constantly, or the egg white will be cooked, 
making the icing lumpy. 

Meringue Icing is the first and most popular 
variation of the boiled icing. To make this per- 
fectly is not difficult after one has mastered the 
plain boiled icing. Mix together a cup of granu- 
lated sugar, one fourth of a teaspoon of cream of 
tartar, and one fourth cup of hot water, stir until 
the sugar is melted, then boil as directed before. 
When the thread stage has been reached, pour the 
syrup over the well-beaten whites of two eggs, beat- 
ing constantly dviring the process. When creamy 
and thick, stand the bowl in a pan of hot water on 
the range and continue beating imtil the egg white 
looks cooked, but before the icing begins to grain, 
remove from the fire. Beat till partially cool, 
then spread on the cake, which should also be cooled 
or cold. 

A cup of grated cocoanut added to the meringue 
will transform it into a most delicious cocoanut icing. 
The top and sides of the cake should be sprinkled 
with cocoanut before the icing is dry. 

By adding half a cup of chopped almonds, half a 
cup of chopped seeded raisins, and five figs, cut in 
small pieces, the correct filling for a Lady Baltimore 
cake will be obtained. 

110 



CAKE ICINGS AND FILLINGS 

Strawberry Meringue. Add a cup of berries 
cut in quarters when the icing is nearly cold. 

Chocolate Meringue is made by adding a square 
of unsweetened chocolate, dissolved over boiUng 
water. 

Pineapple Icing is very pleasing and is made on 
the same foundation recipe as the meringue, except 
that grated pineapple, with its juice, is substituted 
for the water. Boil together half a cup of grated 
pineapple with juice, and a cup of granulated sugar, 
until the thread stage is reached. With a syrup 
gage this will mean 217° F. Then pour over the 
stiffly beaten whites of two eggs. Beat vigorously 
till partially cool, then add a teaspoon of lemon 
juice. 

Marshmallow Icing is made by adding one half a 
pound of marshmallows, cut in small pieces and 
partially melted in two tablespoons of boiling water, 
to the syrup when the thread stage is reached. 
Then proceed as in the foundation boiled icing recipe. 
Spread over a white cake and ornament it with 
marshmallows cut in quarters. 

Caramel Icing is another form of boiled icing which 
is capable of many variations. It is made in the 
following manner: 



Foundation Recipe for Caramel Icing 

3 cups light brown sugar 1 tablespoon butter 
J cup milk or cream | teaspoon vanilla 

111 



CAROLINE KING'S COOK BOOK 

Method of Preparation 

Boil the first three ingredients together until the 
mixture will form a ball when tried in cold water. 
Flavor with half a teaspoon of vanilla, and beat 
until it begins to thicken. Place the saucepan 
containing it in cold water during the beating 
process. This icing is spread between the layers 
and on top of the cake. 

Nut Icing is made by adding a cup of chopped 
hickory nuts, walnuts, or pecans to the caramel 
icing. Decorate the cake with halved nuts when 
nut icing is used. 

Coffee Icing. Add two tablespoons of strong, 
clear coffee to the caramel icing just before removing 
it from the range. Flavor with vanilla, as the' com- 
bination of coffee and vanilla is very pleasant and 
delicate. 

Maple Icing. Substitute maple sugar for one 
half the quantity of brown sugar, and proceed as 
directed in the foundation formula. 

Chocolate Fudge Icing. Add two squares of un- 
sweetened chocolate to the ingredients for the 
caramel icing, and boil until the soft ball stage is 
reached. Then remove from the range and beat 
till thick. Flavor with vanilla. 

Before leaving the subject of cake icings, I want 
to describe several fillings for layer cakes which are 
extremely good and which will be appreciated by 
those who enjoy fine cakes. The first is an old-time 

112 



CAKE ICINGS AND FILLINGS 

lemon honey that is so refreshing and deUcate that 
it is always a favorite, whether made in summer or 
winter. This sweet may be made in larger pro- 
portions and packed away in small sealed glasses. 
It is very nice on hot biscuits, or spread between 
thinly sliced buttered bread for afternoon tea. 

Lemon Honey. Mix together the grated rind 
and juice of one lemon, a cup of granulated sugar, 
a heaping tablespoon of butter, and one well-beaten 
egg. Cook over hot water until the mixture thick- 
ens, stirring constantly. Then pour into glasses, or 
cool and spread between the layers of a cake. 

Orange Honey is made in the same way. 

Strawberry Cream is quite as delicate as the fore- 
going. This is especially nice to serve with sponge 
cake as a dessert, though it may be used for a filling 
as well. Beat the white of one egg to a stiff, dry 
froth, and add a cup of crushed strawberries. Beat 
again, adding gradually a cup of confectioner's 
sugar. When fluffy, whip in one cup of stiffly 
beaten cream. Add a few drops of vanilla. 

Marlborough Filling. Grate one large apple, 
after peehng it, then add to it the grated rind and 
juice of. a lemon, one and a half tablespoons of butter, 
pinch of salt, one fourth of a cup of water, and a 
cup and a fourth of granulated sugar. Cook till 
thick, cool, and spread between the layers of a cake. 

There are two other methods of finishing a cake 
of which I have said nothing, because they are 
scarcely to be regarded in the chapter on icings. 

113 



CAROLINE KING'S COOK BOOK 

However, as they take the place of the icing, they may 
be classed with them. The first of these is simply a 
coating of confectioner's sugar sifted thickly over 
the cake after the latter has been brushed with the 
unbeaten white of egg. This is a nice way in which 
to finish a plain cake or a fresh sponge cake, or a 
jelly roll. 

The second way is to sift granulated sugar over 
the cake rather lightly, just before placing it in the 
oven to bake. When the cake is finished, it may be 
placed at the top of the oven for a few moments to 
glaze the sugar. So finished, a cake will have a 
delightful sugary surface. Gingerbread is especially 
nice glazed in this manner. Halved almonds ' or 
pecans may also be placed on a cake which is to be 
finished with the sugared top, and will add greatly 
to its deliciousness. 



114 



CHAPTER IX 



OMELETS 



Foundation : Eggs — Liquid — Seasonings 



Omelets 



Plain 



French 



Omelet with. Bacon 
Oyster Omelet 
Omelet Soufflg 
JeUy Omelet 
Bread Omelet 

Spanish 

Ham 

Tomato 

Parsley 

Asparagus 

Crouton 



The good housewives of our great grandmothers' 
time were famous for their omelets; they called 
them " amulets ", however, and it was no uncom- 
mon thing to use a dozen eggs or thereabouts in the 
making of quite an ordinary omelet. Cream and 
butter in large quantities were considered essential 
to a good omelet, but I doubt very much whether 
these extravagantly made dishes were very much 
better, or even as good, as the flaky, golden-brown, 
and puffy omelets which are possible to-day with 
only a small proportion of the number of eggs and 
other ingredients which were used in the olden days. 

115 



CAROLINE KING'S COOK BOOK 

Eggs are necessary, of course, for as the Spanish 
say, " one cannot make omelets without breaking 
eggs", and the eggs used in such a dish should not 
only be above suspicion, but should be just as fresh 
as it is possible to secure them. There are omelets 
of all kinds : spicy, sweet, pungent, fluffy, and plain ; 
there are omelets flavored with cheese, and omelets 
in which jam or marmalade is used as a flavor. 
There are dainty dessert omelets, appetizing break- 
fast omelets, and all sorts of omelets between, each 
a marvel of tastiness in its own especial way. 

It will surprise one who is not versed in omelet 
making to learn that all of these omelets, whether 
plain, fancy, or fluffy, with or without embellish- 
ments, are made by one or the other of the two 
foundation formulae which will follow shortly. But 
this is true, nevertheless; there are but two forms 
of omelet and all of the variations which one may 
name are comprised in one or the other of these types. 

These two classes are the plain and the French 
omelets, and even in these two forms the difference 
is but sUght. In the plain omelet, the yolks and 
whites of the eggs are beaten separately to a stiff 
froth, then mixed and added to the other ingredients. 
The yolks and whites are beaten together in making 
a French omelet. 

Foundation Fonnula for Plain Omelet 

4 eggs I teaspoon salt 

4 tablespoons water i teaspoon pepper 

2 tablespoons butter Paprika 

116 



OMELETS 

Method of Preparation 

Beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth and the 
yolks to a light foam, add the seasoning and water 
to the yolks, then whip the whites in gently. Melt 
two tablespoons of butter in an omelet pan or a clean, 
smooth frying pan, and pom- in the omelet mixture. 
Cook very gently for several minutes; when the 
mixture seems set, run a phable, broad-bladed knife 
imder the edges, allowing any of the Hquid which 
has not already become cooked to run under the 
cooked portion. When a knife thrust into the center 
of the omelet will come out clean, it is cooked suf- 
ficiently. Cut across the center and fold with the 
broad knife or spatula. Turn out on a hot platter 
and serve immediately. An omelet must always be 
served the moment it is finished. A few seconds' 
delay is fatal to its appearance. 

A plain omelet such as I have described will be 
an excellent dish for breakfast or luncheon, or it 
may be used as a foundation for any one of a num- 
ber of other tempting omelets. It may be served 
with a garnish of broiled bacon or with a filling of 
smoked beef, finely shredded and saut6d in a httle 
butter. 

Oyster Omelet is very good for supper or luncheon. 
Make a plain omelet and also prepare a pint of 
oysters in a white sauce (see chapter on sauces) and 
when the omelet is ready to fold, place a few of the 
oysters and a little of the sauce over the surface. 

117 



CAROLINE KING'S COOK BOOK 

Then fold, and turn out on a hot dish. Pour the 
oyster sauce about it and garnish with fingers of toast. 

Chicken, veal, or any left-over meat may be used 
in the same way. Vegetables are also nice served 
in a white sauce in a plain omelet. 

Jelly Omelet. Make the plain omelet and spread 
it with softened jelly, jam, or marmalade, then fold. 
Sift powdered sugar over the omelet when serving. 
Omit the pepper in a sweet omelet of this sort. 

Rum Omelet. Make the plain omelet, adding 
one fourth of a cup of powdered sugar and omitting 
the pepper. Cook the omelet as usual and, when 
finished, pour a few tablespoons of rum over it just 
before sending it to the table, sprinkle with powdered 
sugar, and set fire to the nun. This is a very nice 
dessert for a company luncheon. 

Omelet Souffle. If one wishes to serve a very 
elegant and deUcious dessert, omelet souffle will be 
very appropriate and it is not at all difficult to make, . 
although usually regarded as a dish for chefs and not 
for housewives to undertake. It is but a variation 
of the plain omelet. Beat the whites of four eggs 
to a stiff, dry froth, and the yolks with two or three 
tablespoons of powdered sugar until Ught and nearly 
white. Flavor with one half a teaspoon of vanilla 
extract and add one fourth teaspoon of salt. Mix 
the whites of the eggs very hghtly with the yolks 
and sugar, and heap the mixture into a buttered 
pudding dish, a tablespoon at a time, piUng it toward 
the center. Sift powdered sugar over the whole and 

118 





1 


yiMw^^M 


^ 


W^.'SSt 


a 


m 




CmiTttsv of "Goud Housekmping 

1 PouRiNfi THE Omelet Mixttoe into the Pan. 2. Adding the 

Fn-LiNO. 3 AND 4. When the Omelet is Finished Turn 

OUT ON A Hot Platter. .5. Garnish with 

Parsley and Serve at Once 



OMELETS 

bake for ten minutes in a moderate oven. Serve 
immediately, for the omelet will soon fall. 

Bread Omelet. Soak half a cup of bread crumbs 
in milk for fifteen minutes. Then add the yolks of 
four eggs beaten lightly, the seasoning, and lastly 
the stiflSy beaten whites of the eggs. Cook as usual. 
This is the only omelet with which I am familiar 
that will stand for some time without falling. 

French Omelet is more simple of preparation than 
the plain. It is made by the same formula. 

Foundation Fonnula for French Omelet 

4 eggs I teaspoon salt 

4 tablespoons water I teaspoon pepper 

2 tablespoons butter Paprika 

Method of Preparation 

Beat the eggs lightly without separating them, 
add four tablespoons of warm water and the season- 
ings. Melt the butter in an omelet pan or clean, 
smooth frying pan and pour in the mixture. Allow 
the omelet to cook for a few moments until a film 
of cooked egg has formed in the bottom of the pan. 
Then, with a spatula or flexible knife begin at the 
side nearest you to Uft the omelet gently. Tilt the 
pan so that the fluid will run under the cooked por- 
tion; repeat this process until all the mixture is 
cooked. Now run the knife about the edge of the 
pan to loosen the omelet, and fold it over in the 
center. SUp from the pan to a hot platter and 
garnish with parsley or water cress. A sauce poured 

119 f 



CAROLINE KING'S COOK BOOK 

about the omelet will add to its tastiness and appear- 
ance. Tomato, oyster, sauce piquante, Spanish 
sauce, or any of the other sauces described in the 
chapter on sauces, which seems desirable, may be 
served with a French omelet. When one has 
learned to make a perfect omelet of this style, many 
variations and developments of it will occur to one. 
Here are just a few that are especially popular. 

Spanish Omelet. Make the omelet as described, 
but before folding, spread with the following mixture 
and serve with the rest poured about it : 

Spanish Sauce for Omelet. Cook two tablespoons 
each of finely chopped onion and green pepper in two 
tablespoons of butter till a hght brown, then add 
two cups of tomatoes (canned or fresh) and cook till 
thick. This will require about half an hom-. Now 
add three large mushrooms, cut in small pieces, and 
season with salt and pepper and a few grains of 
cayenne. 

Tomato Omelet. Slice ripe tomatoes in thick 
sUces, after peeUng them, then cut the sUces in 
halves, dip lightly in flour and cook in a little butter 
till brown ; season nicely. Make the French omelet 
and place the fried tomato slices between its folds 
and about it on a hot platter. 

Ham Omelet. Chop cold boiled ham very fine 
and mix it with a few finely chopped olives or small 
pickles. Make the French omelet as usual, but 
spread with the ham mixture before folding. Garnish 
with small pickles sliced lengthwise. 

120 



OMELETS 

Asparagus Omelet. Cut cold cooked asparagus 
in small pieces and heat in a little white, drawn- 
butter or HoUandaise sauce. Spread over a French 
omelet and fold. Reserve a few asparagus tips for 
garnishing the omelet. CauUflower, peas, Uma 
beans, or other vegetables may be used in the same 
way in varying the omelet. 

Crouton Omelet. Fry a cup of cubes cut from 
stale bread in butter or dripping till a rich brown 
on all sides and well crisped. Mix the eggs, water, 
and seasoning together, then add the croutons and 
cook as usual. 

Chicken Liver Omelet. Make the French omelet 
and, before folding, add a cup of chicken livers 
which have been boiled and cut in very small pieces, 
then browned in butter. Garnish the omelet with 
water cress. 

Frizzled Beef Omelet. Tear into shreds enough 
dried beef to make one cup, frizzle it in butter for a 
few moments, then place between the folds of a 
French omelet. 

Bacon Omelet. Make the omelet as directed, 
using bacon fat instead of butter for frying it, and 
garnish with slices of crisply fried bacon. 

Cheese Omelet. Scatter grated cheese over the 
French omelet before folding, sprinkle grated cheese 
over the folded omelet and serve at once. 

Crab meat, shrimps, sardines, or lobster may all 
be used in giving variety to an omelet. Chopped 
chives or parsley scattered between the folds of an 

121 



CAROLINE KING'S COOK BOOK 

omelet will make an appetizing luncheon or supper 
dish. 

Before leaving the subject of the omelet, there 
are a few details which I would like to discuss more 
definitely. One is the question of the Uquid to be 
used in their making. Many cooks advise milk, a 
few declare that cream is essential to a good omelet, 
and there are others who beheve that an omelet is 
lighter and more delicate and tender if made with 
water. After many experiments with these various 
Uquids, I have decided in favor of the third liquid. 
An omelet made with water seems more digestible 
and puffy than when either milk or cream is used. 

Great care must be used in cooking an omelet; 
therefore I would Uke to advise the use of an omelet 
pan whenever possible, for the mixture is so much 
more easily handled when such a utensil is used. 
But even without one, perfection may be attained 
if the proper care is taken. The pan in which the 
omelet is to be cooked must not merely be clean, but 
must be smooth and even. It is a good plan to 
sprinkle the pan with coarse salt before beginning 
the omelet, and then with a clean, dry cloth to rub 
it thoroughly with the salt. When it is as smooth 
as glass, brush the salt from it and the pan is ready 
for use. Do not wash it again, simply drop the 
butter into it and let it melt slowly. Then pour in 
the omelet mixture. 



122 



CHAPTER X 



FOOD PRODUCTS CLASSIFIED BY PRINCIPLE 

Meats: Elements — Wholesome Meats — 

SUEFACE SeaEING — SEASONING 

Mutton f Leg, Shoulder, 



Meats 



Tender, fine-i 
grained, ex- 
pensive cuts 



Boasts 



Steaks 



Lamb 
Pork 



Veal 



V - 

\ Crown and Saddle 
Chine 
Spare Rib 
Shoulder 
Loin 
Shoulder 



Tenderloin 
Sirloin 
Porterhouse 
, Bound 



Coarse-flbered, 
juicy, but 
tough cuts 



[Rib 

Chops < Loin 
[Leg 

Cutlets: Leg 
Round 
Rump 
Chuck 

Beef \ Brisket 
Shin 
Flank 
■ Neck 

Mutton J j^gpj^ 

\ Breast 



and 
Lamb 



_T 1 [Breast 

V^^lNeck 

Pork: Ham 

123 



CAROLINE KING'S COOK BOOK 

The food products which were treated in the pre- 
ceding chapters of this volume were classified by 
foundation formulaB ; those which will now be con- 
sidered are classified by principle, for just as there are 
certain basic rules governing the making of certain 
dishes and groups of foods, so there are principles 
which, when learned, will teach the housewife how 
to prepare various other foods not included in the 
first groups. 

It would be a difficult matter to form a foundation 
recipe for the roasting of a piece of beef, but there are 
principles which determine the correct cookery of 
this product and others in the same class which 
greatly simphfy their preparation. These principles 
of cookery divide the food products which they 
govern in almost as complete a manner as the foun- 
dation formulae divide food products of the first 
division. In the following chapters, meats, vege- 
tables, and desserts will be treated in such a manner 
that the housewife may comprehend the subjects 
clearly and easily. 

Meat is the most important article in our diet, for 
it suppUes the protein which is the property that 
builds muscle and makes tissue ; its fat furnishes 
energy, and the nitrogen, carbon, oxygen, and 
minerals which are contained in our roasts and chops 
and stews are very necessary to the well-being of 
the body. 

Beef, which is the flesh of the steer, cow, or ox, is 

124 



FOOD PRODUCTS CLASSIFIED 

used to a greater extent than any of the other flesh 
foods ; it is exceedingly valuable, as it contains a large 
amount of nutrition. Veal is the flesh of a calf 
from four to six weeks old ; it is the least valuable 
of all the meats that we have, and is perhaps the 
least popular. It is rather difiicult of digestion, and 
requires the utmost care in preparation to make it 
wholesome. 

Mutton is a very wholesome meat, but because of 
a prejudice against its sometimes peculiar flavor, it 
is not as popular as lamb, which is very delicate, but 
rather costly. Mutton is a very nourishing and 
necessary meat nevertheless. 

Pork is the flesh of the pig, and while this meat is 
diflScult of digestion if not well cooked, it has a dis- 
tinct food value. Cured pork, hams, bacon, and 
shoulders are widely used and make the most ap- 
petizing of foods when correctly prepared. 

When purchasing meat, it is well to remember 
that beef should always be firm, fine-grained, bright- 
red in color, and well mottled with fgCt of a firm 
texture and somewhat yellowish color. Veal should 
be pinkish in tint with white fat. 

Mutton and lamb, when they are at their best, 
are fine-grained and of a bright pinkish tint. Lamb 
is distinguishable from mutton in that the bones are 
reddish in color, while in mutton they are white. 

For the housewife's convenience and to simplify 
for her the method of preparing them correctly for 
the table, all meats have been divided into two 

125 



CAROLINE KING'S COOK BOOK 

classes: the tender, fine-grained meats, which are 
taken from the least muscular parts of the animal, 
and the coarse-fibered sections, which come from 
those portions which are most used and there- 
fore most muscular and tough. The first class is 
selected for roasting, broiling, and pan broiUng ; they 
are more quickly prepared than the second class 
and are far more expensive. 

The meats contained in the second division, while 
tough, are exceedingly juicy and nutritious; they 
are cheaper in price than the others, but reqiiire 
more attention in their preparation. 

All meat cookery is governed by two foundation 
principles : 



Tender, fine-grained meats 
Coarse, tough meats 



Quick surface searing 

liitense heat 

No water 

Season after cooking 
Quick surface searing 
Long slow c'ookLag 
Small amount of water 
Season while cooking 



When the housewife thoroughly understands these 
principles and the reasons for them, she will be able 
to place upon her table a dish of nourishing, tasty, 
well-cooked meat, whether it be an expensive steak 
or roast, or a modest stew, for these simple principles 
cover the entire field of meat preparation.' 

When one has learned how to roast a piece of 
beef properly, the whole secret of roasting meats, or 
poultry, has been mastered, and so with broiUng and 

126 



FOOD PRODUCTS CLASSIFIED 

pan broiling. The same principle covers all cookery 
of tender meats. 

The surface is seared by intense heat to seal the 
pores and keep the juices from escaping, then the 
meat is cooked quickly, because, being tender, it 
would harden and much of its nourishment would be 
lost if it were allowed to remain in an intense or 
even a moderate heat for a long period. It is not 
seasoned imtil the cooking is finished, because salt 
would draw the juices from it, and in the case of 
tender meats, all of these juices should be retained 
in the flesh ; we do not wish them to enrich the gravy. 

No water should be added in the cooking of tender 
meats, as water would tend to steam them, and the 
crisp brown effect that we wish would be lost. 
Occasionally, however, when a roast is rather lean, 
a little water may be added after the first half hoiu* 
of roasting. 

In preparing the tough, muscular portions of meat 
for the table, long slow cooking is desirable. In 
making soups, as was explained in the chapter on that 
subject, the meat is not only placed in cold water 
over the fire, but it is permitted to soak in the water 
for a period before cooking, in order to draw the 
juices from it, for in that type of cooking we are 
seeking to obtain an essence of the meat, and the 
meat itself is sacrificed to accomphsh this purpose. 

But when the coarser fibered meats are prepared 
for the table, we wish not only to obtain an essence 
in the shape of a rich gravy, but we intend to serve 

127 



CAROLINE KING'S COOK BOOK 

the meat also, and so a different naethod of procedure 
is necessary. The meat is seared to force it to retain 
the greater part of its juices, and it is then cooked 
very slowly in a small amount of water to which salt 
has been added. In this way we attain the desired 
effect. The meat is still juicy when it is finished, 
because of the searing ; it is tender because of the 
long, slow cooking, and the gravy is rich both 
because of the slow cooking and because salt has 
been added to the meat at the outset and has drawn 
out enough of the juices to insure this. 

The best and most expensive cuts of meat are 
selected for roasting, broiling, or pan broihng. The 
cheaper, coarser portions are madp into stews or 
soups, or they are simply boiled and served with 
any preferred sauce. 

Beef is usually served rather rare, mutton is 
sometimes preferred rare also, but veal and lamb 
should be thoroughly cooked to be wholesome. 
Pork, too, must be very well done to be digestible. 

To roast beef perfectly, it should be given fifteen 
minutes to the pound and an additional fifteen 
minutes. Mutton requires the same length of time. 
Veal and lamb require twenty minutes to the pound 
and an additional fifteen minutes; pork must be 
cooked from twenty to twenty-five minutes to the 
pound with the additional fifteen minutes. This 
extra time is allowed for the meat to become 
thoroughly heated before beginning to calculate 
the time of the roasting. 

128 



FOOD PRODUCTS CLASSIFIED 

As to the selection of meat, the outUne at the 
beginning of this chapter will give you a fair idea 
of the various cuts. In beef, a rib roast is the finest 
cut ; the tip of the sirloin is best for a small family, 
the rib roast is the fattest, and the back of the rump, 
which is a coarse-fibered cut, is excellent for a very 
large family, if it is carefully prepared. 

In mutton or lamb, the leg or shoulder is usually 
selected for roasting, though sometimes the saddle 
is purchased, and occasionally, when one is entertain- 
ing, a crown roast which is formed from the rib chops, 
shaped in a semicircle, the, ends of the bones scraped 
and trimmed evenly and neatly, is preferred. 

In veal, the loin, shoulder, or breast will make 
the best piece for roasting, and in pork the chine and 
spare ribs which correspond to the loin in lamb and 
veal, or shoulder, are selected. 

The following rules for roasting meat never vary, 
whatever the variety of meat : 

Wipe the meat with a damp cloth ; 

Place in a roasting pan, skin side down ; 

Sprinkle with a very little flour ; 

Place in a hot oven ; 

Lower the heat when meat is brown on aU sides ; 

Baste with the fat that coUeots in the pan ; 

Add no water until half done ; 

Take up the meat on a hot platter. 

Many housewives feel that meat must be washed ; 
I have even known them to allow it to stand in cold 
water for a time, but this is always a ruinous mis- 
take. Purchase your meat in a shop that sells only 

129 



CAROLINE KING'S COOK BOOK 

government inspected meat, then it will not be 
necessary to wash or cleanse your roast in any way 
except to wipe it carefully with a dampened piece 
of cheesecloth. Do not salt it when preparing it for 
the roasting pan, as salt will draw out the juices and 
make the meat tasteless and lacking in nutriment. 
Sprinkle the meat with a little flour, because, the 
flour browning with the fat that will flow from the 
meat as it roasts will provide a richly tinted gravy. 

Add no water to the pan, as water will cause the 
meat to steam and stew, and instead of a crisp, 
smoking, dehciously nourishing roast, you will have 
a tough, watery, colorless piece of meat that will 
prove very disappointing. In roasting veal or lamb, 
or any lean meat, it is well to place a piece of salt 
pork on the meat to provide sufl&cient fat to brown 
it well. 

Place the meat in a hot oven because the outer 
surface of the roast must be sealed as soon as possible, 
preventing the rich juices from escaping into the 
roasting pan. As soon as the surface has become 
seared, and the flour a nice brown, then the heat of 
the oven may be reduced, and the roasting continued 
more slowly. 

When the meat has cooked for about half the length 
of time required, a cup of boihng water may be 
poured in the pan if necessary, and the roast should 
be basted at least four times during the process of 
cooking it. At the last basting, it may be seasoned 
with pepper and salt. 

130 



FOOD PRODUCTS CLASSIFIED 

Take the meat up on a hot platter and keep hot 
while making the gravy. Serve on hot plates, also. 
When the meat is perfectly roasted, it will be a rich 
brown on the outer surface, and if beef or mutton, 
the shces will show a reddish tint as the knife cuts 
them thinly and evenly. 

Never make the error of mistaking raw meat for 
rare meat ; rare meat is cooked throughout, but 
still retains its rich red juices and is of a reddish tint. 
Raw meat on the other hand will drag as the knife 
goes through it, and will be of a purplish red tone. 
Meat which is not sufficiently cooked is unwhole- 
some. 

Veal and lamb should show no hint of red when 
carved. Steaks, chops, and cutlets are of the first, 
or tender, fine-grained, class of meats, and should 
be cooked like the roasts in intense heat to sear 
the outer surfaces and prevent the escape of the 
juices. 

Each of the varieties of meat which I have just 
named is cooked in the same way. They are either 
broiled, or pan broiled, according to the following 
directions : 

Wipe the meat with a damp cloth ; 

Trim off superfluous fat ; 

Heat the broiler or frying pan very hot ; 

Rub it with a piece of fat ; 

Place the meat on the broiler or in the pan ; 

Cook the meat four minutes ; 

Turn and cook four minutes on reverse side (if very thick 

steak, longer time will be required) ; 
Serve on hot platter with melted butter, salt, and pepper. 

131 



CAROLINE KING'S COOK BOOK 

If the meat is to be broiled, it should be placed 
about one inch from the flame at first, in order that 
it may be seared quickly, then it may be finished 
farther from the flame. Steak cut thicker than one 
inch will require ten minutes to cook properly, if it 
is desired rare. The length of time necessary must 
be gaged by the thickness of the meat. 

When finished and placed on a hot platter, the 
meat, whether it be steak, chop, or cutlet, may be 
dressed to suit the palate. The simplest way is 
to pour a httle melted butter over it, with a Uberal 
sprinkling of salt, pepper, and paprika. Worcester- 
shire sauce or walnut catsup is often used with broiled 
meats, and adds a very pleasant, pungent flavor 
to them. Several of the sauces described in 
Chapter VI may also be used as a dressing ; mush- 
room, Creole, tomato, piquante, figaro are all tasty, 
appetizing accompaniments to such a dish. 

Mattre d'h6tel butter is always popular with 
steak ; it is made by creaming a tablespoon of butter 
with a teaspoon of chopped parsley and a teaspoon 
of lemon juice. Broiled pork chops, with sauce 
piquante, are unusual and very good. Mutton chops 
with tomato sauce or veal cutlets with sauce Creole, 
and lamb chops with currant jelly sauce will all be 
Uked for their deviation from the ordinary. 

The cheaper, tough, or coarse portions of beef or 
mutton are more troublesome to prepare than those 
just discussed, but they yield quite as much nourish- 
ment and are well worth the extra labor required in 

132 



FOOD PRODUCTS CLASSIFIED 

their cookery, because of their lower cost. Stews, 
ragouts, braised dishes, pot roasts are all very similar 
and are adaptable to either beef, mutton, lamb, veal, 
or lean pork. 

These less expensive, coarse-grained portions of 
meat are taken from those sections of the animal 
most frequently used and are more muscular than 
the fine-grained, tender portions. The muscular 
parts of the meat are filled with veins and are very 
juicy, though the fibers of meat are tough. There- 
fore, in order to obtain the juices from this type of 
meat, as in making soup, it must be placed in cold 
water and brought very slowly to the boiling point, 
and during this process, the juices are drawn into 
the water. But when these coarser portions of meat 
are prepared, not as a soup, but in a dish in which the 
meat itself is to be served, then the juices must be 
prevented, in part, from escaping. 

To accomphsh this, the meats are seared as for 
roasting, which seals the surface; they are then 
cooked very slowly; if boiled, merely simmered, 
and if stewed, or braised, are given only a very gentle 
heat, so in the end they are both tender and juicy. 
As the gravy is a conspicuous feature of these dishes, 
the meat is salted early in its preparation so that a 
sufficient quantity of the juices is drawn from it 
to insure richness in the liquid about it. 

Stews, ragouts, braised meats, and goulashes are 
all very similar, and any of the tougher portions of 
beef, mutton, veal, or lamb may be used in their 

133 



CAROLINE KING'S COOK BOOK 

making. These dishes may be prepared on top of 
the range or in the oven, and various vegetables may 
be used in combination with them. 

Irish Stew correctly made may have for its foun(|a- 
tion a piece of meat from the breast, neck, or shoulder 
of beef, mutton, or lamb, weighing a pound and a 
half. Wipe it with a damp cloth and trim it neatly, 
then cut in pieces of a convenient size for serving. 
Dip each piece of meat in a little flour, and sear it 
all over in a hot frying pan which has been rubbed 
with a piece of fat. Two onions, two carrots, two 
turnips, and four potatoes are also required for the 
stew. When the meat is seared and browned, place 
it in a kettle which has a tightly fitting cover ; then 
peel and shce the onions, brown them in a spoonful 
of drippings, and add them to the meat ; pare and cut 
the carrots and turnips into neat cubes, brown, and 
add also to the meat. Pour a pint of boiling water 
over the meat and vegetables, cover closely, and 
place at the back of the range where they will 
merely simmer for two hours. Stir occasionally 
and season at the end of an hour with a level 
teaspoon of salt, one fourth a teaspoon of black 
pepper, and a liberal dash of paprika. Cut the 
potatoes in quarters and add to the stew after two 
hours, and continue cooking, but more rapidly now, 
until the potatoes are done. If desired, add a tea- 
spoon of Worcestershire sauce or catsup to the 
stew. If the meat has been floured and browned 
sufficiently at the beginning of the preparations, 

134 



FOOD PRODUCTS CLASSIFIED 

the gravy will be quite thick and brown enough. 
If wished slightly thicker, a tablespoon of flour and 
water blended together may be added, also more 
seasoning if required. 

If you wish to serve the stew with dumphngs, 
make them as described in Chapter II, place over 
the meat and vegetables, and cover the kettle 
closely. Cook rapidly for ten to twelve minutes. 
Serve the stew on a hot platter, the meat in the 
center, the vegetables grouped about it, and the 
dumplings placed on the meat. 

Ragouts are much hke stews, except that veal is 
as often used in their making as the other meats. 
In making a ragout from beef or mutton, select a 
piece of meat as described in the formula for stew. 
If veal is selected, a portion from the breast or 
shoulder will answer nicely. Cut the meat into 
three-inch cubes, and flour it well. Brown in a 
tablespoon of drippings and sprinkle with a table- 
spoon of flour. Cook till the flour is brown. Now 
add a cup of boihng water and cover closely. Peel 
four carrots and cut them in balls or dice, peel 
and slice three onions, and _ cut three sprigs of 
parsley in bits ; add these to the ragout. Simmer 
for an hour and a half, then add a cup of fresh 
or canned peas, rinsed in cold water, and four 
potatoes, pared and cut in quarters. Season with 
salt and pepper to taste and sprinkle with paprika. 
Add more boiling water if necessary. Cook for 
three quarters of an hour longer. This dish may 

135 



CAROLINE KING'S COOK BOOK 

be made in a casserole and served from the same 
dish. 

Goulash. This is very much like the other dishes 
named, except that a green pepper or two and a cup 
of strained tomato juice are added with the other 
vegetables. Following is a recipe for a very excellent 
goulash : Cut in cubes a pound each of lean veal and 
beef, also one fourth of a pound of salt pork. Fry 
the pork till brown, then add one large onion cut 
in shces. When the onion is brown, remove it from 
the fat and place the meat, well floured, in it. Turn 
frequently so that it may be seared on all sides. 
When brown, cover with three cups of boiUng water. 
Cover and simmer slowly for an hour, then add two 
large carrots cut in small dice or balls, six small white 
onions, a small piece of bay leaf, one clove, and one 
green pepper freed from all seeds and cut in small 
pieces ; also four potatoes cut in balls or cubes. 
Sinamer for an hour and a half, then serve garnished 
with small halved pickles and parsley. 

Braised Meat is usually made from beef, though 
any of the other varieties would answer quite as 
well. Select a piece from some solid portion of the 
animal and pierce it in several places with a knife. 
In each of the holes so made place a strip of fat pork. 
Then lay the meat in an earthen pan with a piece 
of bay leaf, a sprig of thyme, a sprig of parsley, a 
small bit of mace, half a carrot, half a turnip, and 
a wine glass of vinegar. Cover with boihng water, 
and add a quarter of a teaspoon of pepper. Cover 

136 



FOOD PRODUCTS CLASSIFIED 

closely so that no steam may escape and cook in a 
moderate oven for three hours. At the end of this 
time, take the meat up, serve on a hot platter; 
strain the gravy and pour it about the meat or 
serve it in a sauce boat; add more seasoning if 
necessary. 

Coarser and cheaper portions of beef, especially 
from the leg or flank or neck, are very useful when 
finely chopped and made into various dishes. These 
portions will be chopped to your order in any first 
class butcher shop. I would never advise buying 
the chopped meat which is already prepared ; select 
the piece that you desire and have it prepared to 
your order. Many housewives prefer the top of the 
round for this purpose, but it is far more costly than 
the flank or neck, and if the latter sections are put 
through the chopper twice and ground with a very 
fine knife, they will be found quite good for every 
purpose where chopped meat is required. It is 
always a good plan, too, to have an ounce of suet 
chopped with each pound of beef ; this will add to 
the tenderness of the finished dish. It will also give 
it a better flavor. 

Planked Hamburg Steak is as fine a dish as any 
more expensive cut. Purchase two pounds of the 
flank of the beef and have it chopped as fine as 
possible with two ounces of suet. Place it in a 
mixing bowP'tmd add a teaspoon of salt and a salt- 
spoon of pepper, also a dash of paprika. In these 
dishes of chopped beef it is necessary to season the 

137 



CAROLINE KING'S COOK BOOK 

meat before cooking, but the surface is so quickly 
seared that not a great deal of waste occurs. Mix 
well, and make into a flat cake about an inch thick. 
Place on the hot greased broiler and broil as directed 
for steaks, on one side only. Heat an oak plank very 
hot and rub it with a piece of fat. Then turn the 
steak, cooked side down, upon it, arrange a border 
of mashed potatoes about it, and place a boiled 
onion or a stuffed pepper or tomato at intervals in 
the potato border. Place in an oven hot enough for 
roasting, and cook until the potatoes are a golden 
brown and the steak done sufiiciently. Garnish 
with parsley and small radishes and serve on the 
plank. With a salad and dessert, this dish will form 
a hearty dinner. 

Creole Meat Loaf. Again the chopped beef is 
put to use in this dish. But with it are used chopped 
veal and salt pork. One and a half pounds of 
chopped beef, one half a pound of chopped veal, and 
one fourth a pound of salt pork, also finely chopped, 
are necessary for the loaf, with one chopped onion, 
one chopped pepper, and one pimento cut in strips. 
Also a teaspoon of salt and half a teaspoon of pepper 
with a hberal dash of paprika are added. Mix all 
of the ingredients except the pimento. Grease a 
bread pan and pack one half the mixture into it 
soUdly, so that no air spaces are present. Then place 
the strips of pimento on the meat lengthwise and 
cover with the rest of the meat. Bake in a hot 
oven forty minutes, then turn out on a hot platter 

138 



FOOD PRODUCTS CLASSIFIED 

and serve with tomato sauce, made with drippings in 
the pan in place of butter. 

Rosette Steaks. Have the butcher prepare a 
flank or skirt steak as usual, then ask him to roll it 
closely like a jelly roll, placing a few strips of bacon 
in it. Cut the steak in inch and a half pieces, and 
broil nicely on both sides. Now arrange in a baking 
pan and finish in a hot oven. Season and serve on 
a hot platter with any preferred sauce. 



139 



CHAPTER XI 

THE PREPARATION OF VEGETABLES 

Elements: Rapidly Boiling Water. Green 
Vegetables Salted while Cooking. Root 
Vegetables after Cooking 



Vegetables 



Roots 



Green 



Tubers { Potatoes 
Beets 
Carrots 
Sweet Potatoes 

{Onions, Garlic 
Chives, Shallots 
Leeks 
{Asparagus 
Celery 
Endive 
Spinach 



Leaves 



Flower 



Fruit 



Lettuce 

Water Cress 

Romaine 

Brussels Sprouts 
\ Cauliflower 
Beans 
Corn 
Tomatoes 
Peas, etc. 



Vegetable cookery is often slighted because to 
many housewives the preparation of a simple dish 
of boiled or mashed potatoes, or the cooking of a 

140 



THE PREPARATION OF VEGETABLES 

cabbage appears so unimportant a matter that to 
give it a great deal of attention would seem a waste 
of time. Hot or cold water, whichever may be 
most convenient at the time, is poured into the 
saucepan, salt is added or not, regardless of the 
type of vegetable which it contains, and the cooking 
is either continued so long that the vegetable be- 
comes tasteless and water-soaked, or else the sauce- 
pan is removed from the fire long before its contents 
have cooked sufficiently, and as a consequence the 
vegetable is served in a half-raw state. 

There are few things more unappetizing than a 
di^h of soggy potatoes, or cabbage which has been 
boiled until it is red and strong, or tough, half- 
cooked peas or beans, and it is entirely unnecessary 
to place such products upon our tables. It is a 
very easy thing to prepare vegetables in an appetiz- 
ing, wholesome way if one understands the clear and 
simple principles of this form of cookery. A well- 
cooked potato or turnip or any other variety of 
vegetable, dressed with one of the sauces described 
in Chapter VI, will make a dish fit for an epicure, 
but one which even a novice in cooking may prepare. 

All vegetables are diAdded into two large classes. 
There are the root vegetables and the green vege- 
tables. Each of these classes is again subdivided, 
as is shown in the outline at the beginning of this 
chapter. The root vegetables comprise the tubers 
and bulbs; the green vegetables, those of which 
the stem, leaves, flowers, or fruit are eaten. 

141 



CAROLINE ^ KING'S < COOK BOOK 

In composition, all vegetables contain a large 
percentage of water, also some protein, some carbo- 
hydrates, and some mineral matter; they are an 
extremely valuable factor in our diet. Root vege- 
tables are more rich in the carbohydrates (sugar 
and starches) than the green varieties, but the latter 
contain more of the mineral salts which are dis- 
tinctly beneficial to the system. 

While the method of cookery differs somewhat 
with the various classes of vegetables, there are 
foundation principles which underlie the prepara- 
tion of both the large divisions, and these are abso- 
lutely undeviatuig. 

All vegetables should be cooked in rapidly boiling water. 
All green vegetables should be salted as soon as they are 

placed in the boiling water. 
All root vegetables should be salted only when the cooking 

is finished. 
When vegetables are to be baked, they should be placed in a 

very hot oven. 

Although occasionally various types of the root 
vegetables are baked or fried, and although many 
of the green vegetables are frequently, if not always, 
served imcooked, the accepted manner of preparing 
vegetables for the table is by boUing them. They 
may be dressed in diverse ways when they make 
their appearance on the table, but they are almost 
invariably boiled first, then finished as desired. 
Therefore, it is important that the proper method 
of boiling the vegetables be ascertained, and the 
first of the three foundation principles tells us that 

142 



THE PREPARATION OF VEGETABLES 

all vegetables should be put over the fire to cook in 
rapidly boiling water. 

Root vegetables are built upon a woody structure 
or foundation which forms their bulk ; this is called 
cellulose. Cellulose, which is of starchy formation, 
is insoluble except in boiling water. Therefore, 
to place a potato or other vegetable which is so 
constructed in cold or even warm water and allow 
it to reach the boUing point gradually, will permit 
the starchy frame to become soaked with the water 
before it dissolves, and the result cannot help but 
be watery, soggy, and indigestible. The rapidly 
boiling water immediately bursts the starchy cells 
and the vegetable when cooked is dry and mealy 
and delicate. 

In green vegetables, the boiUng water is required 
to preserve the flavor, mineral salts, and color. 

The second principle in vegetable cookery con- 
cerns the question of salt. Green vegetables, we 
are told, must be salted as soon as put over the fire 
to cook. This is also done in order that the flavor, 
minerals, and color may be retained. On the other 
hand, salt added to those vegetables which ripen 
under the surface of the soil will cause the minerals, 
to escape and make the vegetables tough. 

Having learned the art of boiling vegetables 
perfectly, it is a simple matter to serve them in al- 
most any way that one desires. With the addition 
of a well-made sauce, a dish of plain boiled cabbage 
becomes a dehcacy; a boiled turnip served k la 

143 



CAROLINE KING'S COOK BOOK 

Bechamel is worthy a French chef, but the least 
experienced housewife may undertake it fearlessly. 

When one knows how to mash white potatoes so 
that they are snowy and creamy, mashed squash, 
carrots, sweet potatoes, parsnips, or any other 
vegetable may be prepared in the same manner just 
as successfully. 

Boiled Potatoes for Mashing. Scrub the pota- 
toes with a small brush and pare them thinly, as 
much of the mineral salt lies next to the skin. Place 
in rapidly boiling water and cook till they may be 
pierced with a fork. Now drain and shake the sauce- 
pan in the open air for a few moments to make the 
potatoes mealy. Mash them well, so that not a 
single lump remains, then add butter, salt, and 
pepper in proportionate quantity to the number of 
potatoes. Beat well, adding gradually enough 
scalded milk to make them soft and creamy. Whip 
with a fork until as light and white as possible. 
Any other vegetable which is to be mashed is pre- 
pared in the same manner. 

Duchess Potatoes for placing around a planked 
steak or fish are made by adding one well-beaten egg 
to three cups of mashed potatoes, then whipping 
vigorously with a fork. 

Potatoes Boiled in Their Jackets. This is the 
most economical way of cooking this vegetable for 
most purposes. Scrub and cook as in the preceding 
formula. When nearly done, throw in half a cup of 
cold water. This will check the cooking of the 

144 



THE PREPARATION OF VEGETABLES 

vegetable on the outer surface, but the heat which 
it contains will cause the cooking to continue in 
the center. By the time the water has again 
reached the boiling point, the potato will be tender 
throughout. Plain boiled potatoes in their jackets 
may be used in many ways; they may be fried, 
creamed, made into a salad, or as an au gratin 
dish. 

Au Gratin Dishes, whether of potatoes, cauli- 
flower, celery, cabbage, onions, or other vegetables, 
are prepared in the same way. Left-over vege- 
tables will answer quite as well as those freshly boiled 
for this purpose. Make a white sauce as directed 
in the chapter on sauces and break or cut the vege- 
table into cubes or slices. Butter a baking dish 
and arrange a layer of the vegetables in it, sprinkle 
with salt, pepper, and paprika, then place a layer 
of white sauce over it, then another layer of vege- 
tables. Repeat until the dish is full, then cover 
the top of the dish with a layer of soft bread crumbs, 
dot it with bits of butter, and sprinkle thickly with 
grated cheese. Bake in a moderate oven till a 
delicate brown. If preferred, the cheese sauce 
may be used in making the au gratin dish. 

Asparagus in Hollandaise Sauce. Wash and 
scrape the asparagus and cut off the tough ends. 
Cook the vegetable and the ends in rapidly boiling 
salted water, then drain, saving both the water and 
the tough pieces for a cream soup. Place the aspar- 
agus on a hot vegetable platter and pour Hollandaise 

145 



CAROLINE KING'S COOK BOOK 

sauce over it. If preferred, the asparagus may be 
served on strips of toast. 

Turnips cut in balls with a vegetable scoop, 
cauliflower, string beans, or any preferred vegetable 
may be served in the same manner. Or, for variety, 
Bechamel sauce or Allemande sauce may be used as 
a dressing. 

Carrots in Cream. Peel the carrots, cut in dice, 
and cook in boiling unsalted water. Drain and 
cover with white sauce. Onions, parsnips, turnips, 
cabbage, cauUflower, Brussels sprouts, and beans are 
also very fine dressed in this manner. 

Scalloped Vegetables are not unlike those pre- 
pared in au gratin fashion, except that the bread 
crmnbs are used in alternate layers with the cooked 
vegetable until the baking dish is filled, the last 
layer being of the crumbs. Pepper and salt with 
paprika are sprinkled over the surface, with bits of 
butter also, and the dish is then placed in a hot 
oven till nicely browned. Corn, tomatoes, onions, 
and cabbage are unusually good when prepared in 
this way. Com and tomatoes in combination are 
excellent. 

Stuffed Vegetables have become very popular 
of late. The green pepper, onion, tomato, egg- 
plant, and small heads of cabbage are used fre- 
quently for preparing in this way. The vegetable 
is not boiled when it is to be served stuffed, but is 
scalded for several minutes, then dipped in cold 
water and peeled, if tomatoes or onions are used. 

146 



THE PREPARATION OP VEGETABLES 

The centers or seeds are scooped out and the cavities 
filled with a stuffing of soft bread crumbs, seasoned 
and mixed with a small quantity of melted butter, 
If tomatoes, cabbage, or onions, the removed portion 
may be chopped and added to the filling. When 
the vegetables are stuffed, a piece of butter is placed 
on the top of each, and they are then baked in a hot 
oven. A sauce may be served with stuffed vege- 
tables if desired. 

The filling for stuffed vegetables may be varied 
to please the individual taste. Chopped mush- 
rooms may be added to the bread crumbs, or cold 
ham or sausage may be chopped and mixed with 
them, or the filhng may be flavored with Worces- 
tershire sauce or with a little grated onion. Sum- 
mer savory, marjoram, chopped parsley, or chives 
may be used to give zest to the filling. Boiled rice, 
flavored in any of the ways just described, or mixed 
with finely chopped meat, may be used in place of 
the bread for filling. When stuffing a cabbage, 
remember to tie its leaves after filling, so that it 
will present a nice appearance when finished. 

Thus it will be seen that with the proper knowl- 
edge of the principles of vegetable cookery, combined 
with the art of making fine sauces, one needs no 
other instruction in order to become an accomplished 
cook. There is almost no limit to the number of 
delicious dishes which one can evolve from well- 
cooked, well-flavored vegetables and a variety of 
good sauces. But even if the vegetable is merely 

147 



CAROLINE KING'S COOK BOOK 

properly boiled, drained, and dressed with butter, 
pepper, and salt, it will be excellent, if the basic 
principles underlying its cooking are followed. 

And now we come to the exceptions in vegetable 
cookery, the types which, because they differ ever 
so slightly from the class to which they belong, must 
be accorded special treatment. 

In addition to the manner of classification shown 
in the outline at the beginning of this chapter, vege- 
tables are also divided by some authorities into 
the sweet-juiced and the strong-juiced varieties. 
Peas, string beans, corn, celery, and asparagus, all 
belong to the sweet-juiced type, while cabbage, 
turnips, onions, cauliflower, and similar vegetables 
are placed with the strong-juiced variety. There 
are two principles which govern the correct cookery 
of each of these classes : 

Cook sweet-juieed vegetables in little water. 

Cook sweet-juiced vegetables gently. 

Cook strong-juiced vegetables in plenty of water. 

Never cover the saucepan when cooking strong-juiced vege- 
tables. 

Add one fourth of a teaspoon of soda to water when cooking 
cabbage and onions. 

Sweet-juiced vegetables are usually of the fragile, 
delicate sort and to cook them rapidly would tend 
to break or bruise them; therefore it is never wise 
to boU them rapidly. The water must be actually 
boiling when the vegetables are placed in it, and the 
salt must be added, but as soon as the boiling is 
resumed, after the vegetables have been added, the 

148 



THE PREPARATION OF VEGETABLES 

heat should be lowered, and the water permitted 
merely to simmer. 

Too much water in cooking sweet-juiced vege- 
tables will make them watery and tasteless. They 
should be given only as much as is necessary to keep 
them from scorching. 

On the other hand, strong-juiced vegetables 
should be cooked in a large quantity of water, as 
this will make them more deUcate of flavor, and 
tender. The kettle in which they are cooked should 
not be covered, as by keeping it closed gases are 
formed which produce a strong odor that will fill- 
the entire house. 

The correct way to cook a cabbage is to add one 
fourth of a teaspoon of baking soda and one half a 
teaspoon of salt to a large kettle of actually boiling 
water, then having prepared the vegetable by trim- 
ming neatly and allowing it to soak in cold water 
for half an hour, plunge it into the kettle and cover 
just long enough for the water to again reach 
the boiling point. Remove the cover and cook 
rapidly for twenty-five minutes. At the end of 
this time the cabbage will be dehcate, white, and 
thoroughly cooked. To boil it longer will be to 
court indigestion. Now drain it and press gently 
with a plate to expel all of the water. Dress with 
white, HoUandaise, Bechamel, or simply drawn- 
butter sauce. 

CauUflower and Brussels sprouts should be pre- 
pared in the same manner. 

149 



CAROLINE KING'S COOK BOOK 

The tomato is another vegetable which requires 
special treatment. It is the only vegetable that 
contains a great deal of juice, and for this reason, 
and because of its attractive appearance, it was 
formerly regarded as a fruit. The tomato is ex- 
ceedingly useful and wholesome, and can be pre- 
pared in as many ways as the potato. In cooking, 
the skin should always be removed, except when it 
is to be fried; in that case the skin is useful in 
preventing the slices from breaking. The proper 
way to peel a tomato is by blanching it; that is, 
dipping it for two minutes into boiling water, then 
into very cold water. The skin may then be re- 
moved very easily. 

Stewed Tomatoes. Cut the pared tomato into 
quarters, and place in a saucepan over the fire. 
Cook gently for fifteen minutes, then add butter, 
pepper, salt, and a very small quantity of sugar. 
Continue cooking for ten minutes longer, stir in a 
tablespoon of soft bread criunbs, and serve imme- 
diately. Sweet corn cut from the cob and cooked 
with tomatoes makes a pleasing change; left-over 
tomatoes and com may be cooked together in this 
fashion. 

Mushrooms are classed with vegetables and are 
cooked in various ways. Creamed or saut6d they 
are most popular, but in whatever way they are 
to be served, they are almost invariably saut6d 
first. Remove the stems, scrape them, and if large 
cut in pieces. Peel if necessary. Melt two table- 

150 



THE PREPARATION OF VEGETABLES 

spoons of butter and add half a pound of mushrooms ; 
cook two or three minutes, then sprinkle with salt 
and pepper. 

Creamed Mushrooms. Prepare as in previous 
recipe, dredge with flour, and cook for a few moments, 
then add three fourths of a cup of cream or rich 
milk. Season with a shght grating of nutmeg or 
mace, and povir over tiny squares of dry toast; 
serve hot. 

A Few Unusual Vegetable Recipes 

Spinach in Bechamel Sauce. Boil one half peck 
of spinach, which has been thoroughly washed in 
cold water, according to rule. Melt three table- 
spoons of butter in frying pan and add the spinach, 
which should be finely chopped. Stir well and pour 
over it a cup of Bechamel sauce. Flavor slightly 
with mace and cook very gently for four minutes. 

French Fried Onions. Peel large mild onions, 
and slice very thin. Separate into rings and soak 
in milk for half an hour. Then drain, and dredge 
with flour. Fry in deep boiUng fat. Drain on 
paper, season, and serve at once. Green peppers 
may be prepared in the same way. 

Creole Eggplant. Peel the eggplant and cut it in 
sUces, then in dice. Simmer for fifteen minutes, 
then drain and press out the liquid. Chop an onion 
and fry in a httle butter, add the eggplant, and toss 
about till a golden brown. Then pour Creole sauce 
over it, simmer for a few moments, and serve. 

151 



CAROLINE KING'S COOK BOOK 

Creamed Peas and Carrots. Scrape and cut 
in thin slices six young carrots and shell two 
quarts of peas. Cook the carrots in just endugh 
water to cover them, and the peas in a very little 
salted water. When both are tender, drain and 
mix. Dress with white sauce. i i 

Vegetables a la Jardiniere. Mix togethef a 
cup each of*^ cold cooked lima beans, green peas, 
young turnips, and young carrots, each cut in small 
cubes. Reheat in a Bechamel or HoUandaise 
sauce. Place in ramekins and scatter a few crumbs 
over the tops; bake a deUcate brown and garnish 
each with a bit of pimento, cut in fancy shapes 
with a vegetable cutter. 



152 



CHAPTER XII 



Cold 



DESSERTS 

Elements: Sugar — Liquid — A Thickening 
Agent — Flavor 

Jellies : Gelatine Foundation. 

Custards / ■^°^'^®<'^ • Milk and Egg Foundation 

Junkets : Curdled Milk Foundation 
Blancmange : Cornstareli Foundation 

Frozen Desserts / ^''"^ ■^"^''^^' ^^^^^ °^ Cus- 
i> rozen Uesserts | ^^^^ Foundation 

Batter 

. . Bread 

Desserts \ Pnrfdinff 1 Rice 

Tapioca 

Suet 

Fruit 

Indian 

Batter 



Hot 



Baked 
Pudding 

BoUed or 
Steamed 
Puddings 



Souflfles 

There are various reasons why the dessert should 
be regarded as an important adjunct to the dinner ; 
the first is that sugar being quite as necessary an 
element in our diet as protein or fats, without a 
proper proportion of it, it is impossible to compose 
a well-balanced meal. Another reason why the 
dessert should be given due consideration is that, 
served at the end of the meal as it is, when the 
keen edge of the appetite has been dulled, the sweet 

153 



CAROLINE KING'S COOK BOOK 

dish must be daintily made and very tempting if 
it is to be eaten with a keen sense of enjoyment. 
Then, too, the housewife who wishes to be regarded 
as a fine cook will remember that it is the dessert 
which will leave a lasting impression on the minds 
of the diners, as it is eaten just before they leave the 
dinner table. 

Whether a dessert is to be served hot or cold, 
it contains the same foundation elements : sugar, 
liquid, a thickening agent, and flavor. Some des- 
serts include fruit, others nuts, and still others 
chocolate or cocoa, but whatever accessories may 
be added for variation or flavor, the foundation re- 
mains the same. 

The question of the thickening agent determines to 
a great extent the class to which the dessert belongs. 
In jellies, gelatine is used ; in custards, eggs ; in 
blancmanges, cornstarch ; in various other puddings, 
flour, rice, tapioca, and other products. In ice 
creams, ices, and sherbets, the ice and salt used in 
freezing the product act as thickening agents. 

Fresh fruit with cream and sugar is the ideal des- 
sert, but except in summer when berries or peaches 
are to be had, this is not served as often as it should 
be. We have grown so accustomed to the com- 
plex and elaborate creams and jelhes, the boiled or 
baked puddings, and the blancmanges and charlottes, 
that fruit in itself seems rather too simple for our 
tastes, although it is very often served in com- 
bination with creams, jellies, or other deUcacies. 

154 



DESSERTS 

It is impossible to treat so large a subject as 
desserts in as direct a manner as the other food prod- 
ucts which have been dealt with in this volume. 
There are too many varieties of desserts to permit 
one to classify them in quite the same way, nor 
would it be either practicable or possible to describe 
all of the desserts which have been evolved from the 
few elements which form the base of each. 

All desserts are divided into two large classes: 
those which are served cold, and those which are 
served hot. Each of these classes is again divided 
into various subdivisions, and a foundation principle 
for each of these smaller classes has been formed. 

The cold desserts comprise the jellies, custards, 
junkets, puddings which are served cold, and frozen 
dishes. 

The hot desserts contain but one class, the pud- 
dings which are served as soon as they are taken from 
the oven, or from the kettle. 

All of the jellies which are served as desserts have 
for their common foundation some form of gelatine. 
These desserts are again divided as follows : 

Fruit-flavored Jellies { ^^^^^ 



Jellies 



Jellied Fruits or Nuts 
Snow Pudding 



Creams 



Coffee Jelly 



Spanish 
Dresden Pudding 



The gelatine desserts are not difl&cult to make, 
though some of them may sound rather complicated. 

165 



CAROLINE KING'S COOK BOOK 

There are a few principles to keep in mind when 
undertaking these dishes, and when they are learned, 
even the most elaborate dessert of this type will 
soon be a simple matter to undertake. 

Foundation Principle for Gelatine Desserts 

Soak gelatine in cold water ; 

Add sugar to boiling water ; 

Do not boil after gelatine or flavoring is added ; 

Pour into wet mold ; 

ChiU for several hours. 

Fruit-flavored jellies are the most simple and the 

most popular of the fruit desserts. They are all 

made upon the same foundation, only the flavoring 

is changed. 

Lemon Jelly 

2 tablespoons granulated 1 cup sugar 

gelatine soaked in half 2i cups boiling water 

a cup of cold water J cup lemon juice 

Soak the gelatine for twenty-five minutes in the 
cold water. Pour the boiUng water over the sugar and 
stir till dissolved, then add the gelatine, once more 
stir well, add the lemon juice, strain, and pour into a 
mold wet in cold water. Chill for several hours, 
then turn out, and serve with cream or boiled custard. 

Orange jelly, pineapple jelly, or any other fruit 
jelly is made in the same way, except that a cup and 
a half of fruit juice is used in place of a portion of 
the boiling water, and two tablespoons of lemon 
juice are also added with the other fruit juices. 

Russian Jelly. By simply beating any of the 

156 



DESSERTS 

fruit jellies to a stiff froth with an egg beater 
while they are cooling, the plain jelly is trans- 
formed into the Russian jelly. When they have 
begun to congeal, pour into a wet mold and chill. 
The jelly will be delicate, light, and frothy through- 
out. For variety, mold the Russian jelly in in- 
dividual molds. 

Jellied Fruits or Nuts are made with the same 
plain gelatine foundation. Prepare two cups of 
any fruit that is preferred by seeding, paring, shelling, 
or cutting into sections of desired size. Cool the 
jelly almost to the point of congeahng, add the 
fruit, and stir till too stiff to manage. Pour into a 
mold and chill; or the jelly may be arranged in 
layers, left to harden, then the fruit added; cover 
this with a second layer of jelly, and so continue 
until the mold is full. 

Snow Pudding. Make the lemon jelly, and cool 
slightly, then beat with an egg beater till hght and 
frothy. Beat the whites of two eggs to a stiff 
froth and add to the whipped jelly, beating con- 
stantly till it stiffens slightly. Pile by spoonfuls 
into a wet mold or into a glass dish ; serve very cold 
with boiled custard or cream. 

Coffee Jelly. Make in the same manner as the 
fruit jelhes, substituting a cup of clear, strong coffee 
for a cup of water. Mold, chill, and serve with 
cream. 

The creams which are formed on the gelatine 
foundation usually contain eggs and milk or cream. 

157 



CAROLINE KING'S COOK BOOK 

Sometimes fruit, nuts, or other ingredients which 
enrich them are also added. 

Spanish Cream 

1 tablespoon granulated gelatine 3 eggs 

3 cups milk f teaspoon salt 

§ cup sugar 1 teaspoon vanilla 

Dissolve the gelatine in a Uttle of the cold milk. 
Scald the rest of the milk and add the sugar, pour 
over the well-beaten yolks of the eggs, then cook 
over hot water till slightly thickened. Add the 
gelatine, salt, and flavoring, then pour over the 
whites of the eggs beaten to a stiff froth. Whip all 
well and pour into individual molds. Chill and 
serve with cream. If a large mold is preferred, use 
twice the amount of gelatine as a thickening agent. 

Dresden Pudding is a variation of the foregoing 
recipe. In it, however, the milk is omitted, and a 
cup of whipped cream substituted. Fruits, nuts, 
and lady fingers are also added. 

Dresden Pudding 

1 tablespoon granulated 3 eggs 

gelatine J cup candied 
f cup sugar cherries 

4 lady fingers | cup candied 
i cup sultana raisins pineapple 

1 cup whipping cream I cup blanched 
1 tablespoon sherry almonds 

Break the lady fingers into pieces. Chop the 
various fruits and mix them with the wine. Chop 
the blanched almonds also. Beat the yolks of the 

158 



DESSERTS 

eggs to a stiff froth, add the sugar, and beat again. 
Stir in the lady fingers, then the whites of the eggs 
beaten to a stiff dry froth and mixed with the cream, 
whipped soUd, and the gelatine soaked in a httle 
cold water. Stir all of the ingredients till the mix- 
ture begins to congeal. Then pile into a mold and 
chill. When cold, turn out on a lace paper doily 
and decorate with candied cherries, or with sweet 
peas or ferns. Serve with or without cream. 

This pudding may be varied by substituting 
candied violets for the fruits and decorating it when 
taken from the mold with violets. Shredded cocoa- 
nut makes a very good substitute for the candied 
fruits. The sherry may be omitted. 

Charlottes form still another variety of the gelatine 
creams. A mold is Uned with halved lady fingers, 
and filled with whipped cream stiffened with gela- 
tine, and flavored variously, or the cream described 
in Dresden pudding may be used, omitting the 
fruits and wine. 

Chocolate Charlotte. Add a square of grated 
chocolate to the Dresden pudding cream, omitting 
fruits and wine. 

Caramel Charlotte. Melt a tablespoon of granu- 
lated sugar till it reaches the brown stage, then 
add to the other ingredients in the Dresden pudding, 
omitting fruit and nuts. 

Coffee Charlotte. Make the cream as for Dresden 
pudding and flavor with two tablespoons of clear, 
strong coffee. 

159 



CAROLINE KING'S COOK BOOK 

A number of elaborate and delicate desserts may 
be made from these recipes. The housewife who is 
interested in cookery will be able to build many 
tempting and handsome dishes from the preceding 
formulae. 

Custards 

Custards, which come next in point of simplicity, 
are divided into two classes, those which are boiled 
and those which are baked, and these classes are 
again subdivided as follows : 



Custards 



Boiled or liquid 



Baked or solid 



Cake Trifle 

Floating Island 

Caramel 

Chocolate 

Caramel 

Chocolate 

Maple 

Coffee 



Whether of the first or the second class, the same 
basic principles govern all custard making. 

Heat milk to boiling point. 
Beat eggs, sugar, and cornstarch together. 
Pour milk over egg mixture. 
J Add flavoring. 
Steam. 

While the first class of custard is regarded as 
boiled, and the second as baked, they are in reality 
both steamed, one on top of the range, the other in 
the oven. One is served in a liquid state, the other 
in a semi-solid state. But both are made in much 
the same way. 

160 



DESSERTS 

Boiled Custard 

2 eggs 1 pint milk 

s cup sugar Flavoring 

1 teaspoon cornstarch 

Bring the milk to the boiling point and beat the 
eggs with the sugar and cornstarch, pour the boiling 
milk over the noixture, and stir till the sugar is dis- 
solved. Then place in a pan of boiling water and 
stir gently over a slow fire till the mixture thickens 
shghtly and masks the spoon. Be very careful 
when this point is reached not to allow the custard 
to remain in the boihng water, for it is very Uable to 
curdle if cooked an instant too long. The addition 
of the cornstarch eliminates this danger to a great 
extent. Boiled custard is an excellent foundation 
for trifles, and other desserts ; it is also served 
as a sauce with puddings. 

Baked Custard 

2 eggs 1 pint milk 

5 cup sugar Flavoring 

1 teaspoon cornstarch 

Scald the milk and beat the eggs, sugar, and corn- 
starch together. Pour the hot milk over the mix- 
ture and stir till the sugar is dissolved. Flavor and 
pour into greased custard cups or ramekins, stand 
in a pan of hot water, and bake in a moderate oven 
till firm. Either the boiled or baked custard may 
be varied to suit the taste in many ways. 

161 



CAROLINE KING'S COOK BOOK 

Caramel Custard. Melt a tablespoon of sugar 
till a deep brown and pour the hot milk over it to 
dissolve, then proceed as in previous recipe. A 
few drops of vanilla will make the flavor more 
deUcate. 

Maple Custard. Substitute half a cup of maple 
syrup for the sugar in either recipe. 

Chocolate Custard. Melt a square of unsweet- 
ened chocolate and add to the hot milk. 

Coffee Custard. Omit half the milk in the formula 
and add an equal amount of clear strong coffee. 
Flavor with vanilla. 

Several popular desserts have for their foundation 
a well-made boiled custard. Cake Trifle is one of 
these. Line a glass dish with thin shces of stale 
cake or halved lady fingers. Spread with a little 
jelly and cover with a layer of macaroons. Pour 
vanilla-flavored boiled custard over the macaroons 
and top with whipped cream. Bananas, peaches, 
or other fruits may be used in combination with 
this dish. Serve very cold. 

Floating Island. Make the boiled custard as 
directed, and chill. Pour into a glass dish and 
top with the whites of the eggs beaten to a very stiff 
froth and sweetened with two tablespoons of sugar, 
then beaten again till stiff, and flavored as preferred. 
Drop by spoonfuls on boiling water and cook gently 
for two or three minutes. Skim off and place on 
the custard. Garnish with dots of red jelly or 
with cherries or preserved strawberries. 

162 



DESSERTS 

Junkets 

fNut 
Junkets : Plain < Chocolate 
[ Caxamel 

Junkets are very digestible and wholesome des- 
serts. They are formed of milk curdled with 
rennet. The latter is usually purchased in the form 
of tablets which are called " Junket Tablets." While 
junkets, like custards, may be made in innumerable 
forms, the foimdation principles in all are the same. 

Heat the milk till lukewarm ; 
Break the junket tablet into small pieces ; 
Add sugar, flavoring, and tablet to milk ; 
Stand in warm place till set. 

It will be observed that in making a junket, quite 
the opposite method from that usually followed of 
chilling the dessert to cause it to congeal is em- 
ployed ; the milk is heated only until it is tepid, 
the tablet, sugar, and flavoring are added, and the 
mixture is kept in a warm place to congeal. The 
reason for this is that the reimet will not act upon 
the milk imless it is blood-warm. If the milk is 
heated too hot, the rennet will prove inactive; it 
must be just blood-warm. 

Simplest Form of Junket 

2 cups of nulk Few grains of salt 

f cup of sugar 1 teaspoon vanilla 

1 junket tablet 

Heat the milk until lukewarm and add the sugar 
and salt. Crush the tablet and add to the mixture 
with the vanilla. Stir till the tablet is well dissolved. 

163 



CAROLINE KING'S COOK BOOK 

Then pour into a glass dish and stand in a warm, 
but not hot, place. When serving this junket, a 
spoonful of whipped cream may be placed on top, 
or chopped nuts sprinkled over it. 

Chocolate Junket. Dissolve a square of un- 
sweetened chocolate over hot water and add to the 
warm milk. Proceed as in plain junket. 

Caramel Junket. Melt the sugar over the fire 
till a Ught brown, add one third of a cup of boiling 
water, and stir till cool. Then add to the mijlk. 

Junket is a deUcious accompaniment to berries, 
sUced peaches, baked apples, or other fruits. 



Blancmange 

Blancmange {Plain 



Easter Pudding 
Chocolate 
Golden 
Fruit 



Cornstarch is a valuable adjunct to good cookery. 
It may be used in innumerable ways, as a thickening 
agent in various dishes, or in combination with 
liquid in forming a dessert. Blancmange, of which 
cornstarch is the thickening agent, is one of the most 
popular cold desserts that we have. Fruit juices 
or milk may be used in its making, and eggs may 
be added or not as preferred. 

Foundation Principles in Making Blancmange 

Scald milk ; 

Mix cornstarch with sugar and cold milk ; 

Add to hot milk ; 

Cook thoroughly. 

164 



DESSERTS 

A plain cornstarch blancmange, containing just 
enough of the starch to make it sufficiently thick 
to hold its shape, and served with plain cream, 
is a deUcious and wholesome dessert. It must be 
carefully made, however, — smooth, deUcate, and 
thoroughly cooked. Hah-cooked starch is neither 
healthful nor agreeable. 

Blancmange 

2 cups milk | teaspoon salt 

i cup cornstarch J cup cold milk 

2 tablespoons sugar J teaspoon vanilla 

Scald the milk over boiling water, and mix the 
cornstarch, sugar, and salt. Add the cold milk to 
the dry ingredients and mix to a paste. Stir into 
the scalded milk and cook over hot water fifteen 
minutes, stirring frequently. Pour into a wet mold 
and chill. Turn out on a lace paper doily and 
serve with crushed fruit, plain or whipped cream, or 
with a deUcate cold pudding sauce. 

Easter Pudding. Make the blancmange as in 
the foregoing formula, and when it is thoroughly 
cooked, add one fourth teaspoon of almond ex- 
tract, and whip in the stiffly beaten whites of two 
eggs. If you wish, you may color it a very* delicate 
pink or yellow with vegetable coloring. Or, a por- 
tion of the blancmange may be left white and poured 
into a large mold, the rest tinted and placed in tiny 
molds. When ready to serve, turn the large mold 
out on a lace paper doily with the small puddings 

165 



CAROLINE KING'S COOK BOOK 

grouped about it, decorate with whipped cream, 
or flowers; grated cocoanut added to the pudding 
makes a pleasant variation. 

Chocolate Blancmange. Add half a square of 
melted chocolate to the plain blancmange formula. 

Golden Blancmange. Beat well two egg yolks and 
add to the plain blancmange just before removing it 
from the fire. Flavor with a Uttle grated orange peel. 

Fruit Blancmange. Substitute the juice of straw- 
berries, raspberries, or pineapple for the milk in 
the plain blancmange, and add also a teaspoon of 
lemon juice. A teaspoonful more of the cornstarch 
may be necessary when fruit juices are used. Egg 
whites beaten stiff may be added at one's discretion 
in this formula. 

Frozen Desserts 

Although most housewives depend upon the 
caterer for their ices and ice creams, it is really quite 
a simple matter to make them at home. When 
one has a good ice-cream freezer, a deUcious vanilla 
ice cream may be quickly made for dinner, or a 
fruit ice for luncheon, in a very short time. The 
question of expense is small as compared with the 
prices qharged at the best confectioner's for any 
variety of frozen sweet. It is not always neces- 
sary to have cream for the making of a dessert of 
this kind. A good boiled custard, well frozen and 
packed away for an hour to ripen, will prove almost 
as good as a rich cream. Fruit juices, too, make 

166 



DESSERTS 



delicious frozen desserts, and both may be varied to 
suit almost any occasion. 

Frozen desserts are a division of the cold desserts, 
and are again classified as follows : 

f Sherbets 
Water lee < FrappS 
[Punch 

Fruit 



Frozen Desserts 



Frozen Custard 



Ice Cream 



Mousse 



Nut 
Coflfee 
Caramel 
Chocolate 

Fruit 

Coffee 

Caramel 

Chocolate 

Bisque 

Banana 

Frozen Pudding 



Water ices are the simplest form of the frozen 
dessert. They are inexpensive and easily made, as 
they are usually merely fruit juices sweetened, 
diluted with water, and frozen. From the water ice 
is made either the sherbet, the frapp6, or the punch. 

Frozen custard is an inexpensive cold dessert and 
is capable of many delightful variations. Ice cream 
proper caUs for pure cream in its making, and the 
mousse is simply a flavored and frozen whipped 
cream. 

Foundation Principles for Water Ices 

Boil sugar and water to a ssrrup ; 

Add fruit juice ; 

Cool; 

Freeze and pack away to ripen. 

167 



CAROLINE KING'S COOK BOOK 

The sugar and water should always be boiled to a 
thick syrup when water ice or any of its variations 
is to be made; otherwise, the product will have a 
raw taste and rough texture. When the syrup has 
been partially cooled, add the fruit juice, then con- 
tinue cooling, and freeze. 

Lemon Water Ice 

4 cups water i cup lemon juice 

2 cups sugar Thinly pared rind of one lemon 

Make a syrup of the sugar and water, boiUng them, 
with the thinly pared lemon peel, for five minutes. 
Strain, cool, and add the strained lemon juice to 
the syrup. 

Fruit Juice Ice Other than Lemon 

2 cups water 1 cup fruit juice 

1 cup sugar Juice of half a lemon 

Rind of 1 lemon 

Proceed as in the first formula, squeezing the 
fruit, if berries, through a double thickness of cheese- 
cloth to obtain the juice. 

The foregoing recipes are all the housewife will 
require for any water ice, sherbet, frapp^, or punch 
she will desire to make. The amounts may be in- 
creased or lessened in proportion, but the founda- 
tion principles will remain the same. 

Sherbets are made by adding the beaten whites 
of two eggs to the foundation formula for water ice. 
If eggs are out of the question, dissolve an envelope 

168 



DESSERTS 

of gelatine in one fourth cup of cold water and add 
it to the hot syrup. Then proceed as previously 
directed. 

Frappe is merely water ice which is only half 
frozen. It is usually served in tall slender glasses. 

Punch is water ice to which wine or rum has been 
added. 

The frozen creams are more complex than the 
ices, but are still very easy to manage. The least 
expensive of these is the frozen custard, the formula 
for which is not unlike that given for simple boiled 
custard. 

Frozen Custard 

2 cups scalded milk 2 eggs 

i cup sugar i teaspoon salt 

1 teaspoon cornstarch 1 teaspoon vanilla 

Scald the milk and add to it the sugar, salt, corn- 
starch, and eggs, beaten together. Simmer over 
boiUng water till smooth, then add flavoring, and 
remove from the fire. To this may be added, when 
cooled, two cups of whipped cream. The mixture 
is then frozen and packed away to ripen for an 
hour, or longer. If the cream is not used, add another 
cup of milk and one fourth a cup of sugar in ad- 
dition to the amount called for. Or, the yolks of 
the eggs only may be used in the cooked cream, 
the whites beaten to a stiff froth and added just 
before the mixture is placed in the freezer. 

To this foundation may be added various flavor- 

169 



CAROLINE KING'S COOK BOOK 

ings, or the cream may be changed in a number of 
ways. 

Strawberry Ice Cream. Crush a pmt of berries 
and press the juice through a fine sieve. Add to the 
cooled custard, with additional sugar as seems 
necessary. Stir well, then add the whipped cream, 
and freeze as usual. 

Raspberry Ice Cream is made like strawberry. 
Peach or other fruit creams are also made in the same 
way. 

Chestnut Ice Cream. Boil a pint of chestnuts, 
shell, and cut the nuts into fine pieces. Add to the 
cooling custard and proceed as in the fruit ice creams. 

Coffee Ice Cream. Pour a cup of boiUng water 
on one fourth of a cup of pulverized coffee. Let 
the mixture stand for half an hour, then strain 
through a double thickness of cheesecloth. Add 
to the scalded milk when making the custard. Fin- 
ish as in frozen custard. Flavor with a half tea- 
spoon of vanilla. 

Caramel Ice Cream. Melt half a cup of sugar 
over the fire till it is of a bright brown color, then 
pour a cup of boiUng water over it, and simmer till 
thick. Add to the scalded milk. Finish as usual. 

Chocolate Ice Cream. Grate and melt two squares 
of chocolate in the scalded milk when making the 
custard. Finish as directed. 

Maple Ice Cream. Substitute a cup of maple 
syrup for the half cup of sugar in the original formula. 

Ice Cream made from pm-e cream is richer and 
170 



DESSERTS 

perhaps slightly smoother than that made of cus- 
tard. It is not necessary to buy a heavy cream for 
it, as the ordinary thin cream will answer very well. 

Philadelphia Ice Cream 

1 quart thin cream J cup of sugar 

1 tablespoon vaniUa 

Scald the cream with the sugar, then cool it well, 
and add the flavoring. Freeze as usual. Scalding 
the cream makes the finished product of much finer 
grain than when raw cream is used; besides the 
sugar blends with it more satisfactorily while it is 
hot. All of the variations suitable for frozen 
custard may be made with this foundation also, 
and in addition a few others which are always hked. 

Bisque Ice Cream. Add a cup of macaroon 
crumbs, finely rolled, to the foundation formula 
for Philadelphia ice cream. 

Banana Ice Cream. Force four bananas through 
a coarse sieve and add to the foundation cream. 

Frozen Pudding. Shred a cup of mixed candied 
fruit very fine, and soak it in three tablespoons of 
rum or orange juice for an hour, freeze the cream 
to the mushy stage, and add the fruit. Continue 
freezing till sohd. Pack to ripen as usual.. 

The Method of Freezing 

Much of the success of homemade ice cream de- 
pends upon the manner in which it is frozen. The 
same mixture may be either fine-grained, delicate, 

171 



CAKOLINE KING'S COOK BOOK 

and smooth, or it may be granular and coarse; 
everything depends upon the freezing. 

The first reqmsites in making any dessert of this 
kind are a good freezer, a heavy burlap bag, a 
wooden mallet, a dipper, and a sufficient quantity 
of ice and rock salt. 

Break the ice coarsely and place the pieces in the 
burlap bag, then crush them fine with the mallet. 
Some housewives prefer chipping the ice with a 
shaver which comes for the purpose, but that method 
seems wasteful. In the bag the ice may be crushed 
almost as fine as snow with absolutely no waste. 

Place the empty can in the freezer, and adjust the 
top and dasher; turn the handle a few times to 
ascertain if all is in working order. Then begin to 
pack the freezer with the ice and salt. Put in three 
dippers of crushed ice, packing it in closely with the 
end of the mallet or a broom handle, then sprinkle 
in one dipper of salt. Continue in this way until the 
freezer is nearly fiill. Pack the ice in as tightly as 
you can, turn the crank a few moments, then remove 
the top, and pour in the mixture. Cover, replace 
the top, and continue packing the ice and salt in 
the freezer. 

When full, begin turning the crank very slowly 
at first, then faster as the mixture begins to congeal. 
When you can no longer turn the handle, draw off 
the salt water by removing the plug in the side of 
the freezer, remove the dasher from the can, and 
pack the cream solidly with a spoon. Put on the 

172 



DESSERTS 

cover, in which you have placed a tightly fitting 
cork, and pack the freezer with the ice and salt, using 
the same proportions. Cover with the bag or a 
piece of carpet and allow to stand for an hour or 
longer to ripen. 

If you wish to turn the cream from the freezer 
in a sohd mass, remove the can from the freezer 
and place in a pan of cold water. Wipe the outside 
carefully, and remove the cover. Run a knife about 
the edge of the cream, invert the can on a platter, 
and the mixtm-e will shp out neatly. 

Ice cream may be placed in a mold when frozen 
sohdly and then packed in the ice and salt mixture, 
placed to ripen, and when ready to serve, may be 
tmned from the mold in the manner just described. 

Foundation Principles of Freezing 

Finely crushed ice — 3 parts. 

Rock salt — 1 part. 

Close packing of ice and salt. 

Slow turning of the crank when beginning to freeze, increasing 

speed as freezing continues. 
Packing frozen mixture solidly. 
Sufficient time for ripening. 
Never draw off salt water until cream is frozen. 

Remember, too much salt in freezing will cause the 
mixture to congeal so rapidly that it will be coarse- 
grained and granular instead of fine and smooth. 
Also, if the ice is not finely crushed, the cream will 
not freeze solidly. 



173 



CHAPTER XIII 



HOT DESSERTS 

Elements : Liquid — Sweetening — Flavor — 
Thickening Agent — Heat 



Hot Desserts 



Puddings 



Baked 



Boiled 



Steamed 



Bread 

Rice 

Tapioca 

Batter 
'Suet 

Indian 

Fruit 

Batter 
fSuet 
Indian 
Fruit 
Batter 



I Souffles 



Hot puddings are either baked, boiled, or steamed ; 
they may contain eggs or not, fruit as one desires, 
be flavored and spiced to suit the individual prefer- 
ence, and for a thickening agent they may have any 
one of a variety of products. Bread is frequently 
used, or rice, or some other variety of cereal, or 
tapioca, or flour. 

Bread Pudding 



Bread Pudding 



Plain 

Butterscotch 

Caramel 

Cocoanut 

Maple 

Fruit 



174 



HOT DESSERTS 

The bread pudding is the most familiar of all hot 
puddings, but it is not always palatable, because 
too much bread is used in its making. If one will 
only remember, in making puddings, that the thick- 
ening agent is merely used as a medium for the 
flavors and sweetening, one's puddings will be im- 
proved. The bread in a bread pudding is merely 
used to hold the other ingredients together and to 
supply a background for the flavors. A well-made 
bread pudding is a very dehcious dessert and is 
capable of innumerable variations. 

The following principles will enable any one to 
produce a deUcate, smooth pudding : 

Always soak tlie bread in water ; 

Scald the milk and add the sugar, eggs, and butter ; 

Bake the pudding slowly. 

Bread for a pudding of this kind must be soaked 
in water to produce Ughtness and delicacy. The 
milk is scalded with the butter and sugar, because 
scalded milk 'makes the pudding smoother than raw 
milk. The pudding is baked slowly in order that 
the eggs and milk will not curdle, as they might with 
rapid baking. 

Plain Bread Pudding 

1 thick sUoe bread J cup sugar 

1 tablespoon butter 2 eggs 

i teaspoon salt 1 pint milk 

1 tablespoon butter Flavoring 

Soak the bread, cut an inch and a half thick, or 
its equivalent in broken pieces, in cold water for 

175 



CAROLINE KING'S COOK BOOK 

twenty minutes. Then press out all the water and 
crumble the bread to bits. Meantime, bring a pint 
of milk to the boihng point and add the salt, sugar, 
butter, and beaten eggs to it. Pour over the bread 
and stir well. Flavor with a teaspoon of vanilla. 
The pudding will appear thin, but it will become 
sufficiently thick when baked. Pour into a well- 
greased dish and bake forty minutes in a slow oven. 
If a level teaspoon of cornstarch is mixed to a thin 
paste with a little cold milk and added to the hot 
milk, the pudding will be somewhat thicker. This 
is a good plan for those who do not care for any 
liquid in a pudding of this kind. 

Caramel Bread Pudding. Make as above, but 
flavor with a tablespoon of granulated sugar melted 
to a bright brown over the fire and then added to 
the hot milk. Flavor with vanilla. 

Chocolate Bread Pudding. Add a square of un- 
sweetened chocolate to the milk while it is being 
heated, then follow the original method in making 
the pudding. 

Cocoanut Bread Pudding. To the foundation 
pudding formula add haK a cup of cocoanut, either 
freshly grated or desiccated, then proceed as in the 
plain bread pudding. 

Butterscotch Pudding. Substitute brown sugar 
for the granulated in the plain bread pudding, and 
add it to the butter ; cook over the fire till it reaches 
the butterscotch stage, then add to the scalded milk. 
The brown sugar may cause the milk to curdle slightly, 

J76 




Caramel Bread Pudding 




Dresden Pudding 




Baked Apples 



HOT DESSERTS 

but when the pudding is finished, it will be quite as 
fine and smooth as when granulated sugar is used. 

Maple Pudding. Substitute a cup of maple 
syrup for the granulated sugar in the formula for 
plain bread pudding. 

Fruit Bread Pudding. Add a cup of seeded and 
shghtly chopped raisins to the plain bread pudding, 
and flavor with one fourth teaspoon of mace and 
one fourth teaspoon of cinnamon. 

If any one of the foregoing puddings is desired 
especially good, it may be topped with a meringue. 
In this case, use only the yolks of the eggs in making 
the pudding and reserve the whites for the meringue. 

Meringue 
There are principles which guide the making of 
a successful meringue, just as there are in making 
puddings or in any other branch of cookery. A 
well-made meringue is a light and airy bit of dainti- 
ness which adds grace to any dessert, but a poor, 
tough meringue is merely a waste of good ma- 
terials. Three basic rules underlie the making of a 
good meringue : 

Beat the egg whites sufficiently. 

Add a sufficient quantity of sugar to them. 

Brown in an exceedingly slow oven. 

If these principles are heeded, we will have no 
more poor meringues. For the bread puddings 
make the meringues as follows : 

2 egg whites 6 tablespoons granulated 

Flavoring sugar 

177 



CAROLINE KING'S COOK BOOK 

Beat the whites of the eggs until the bowl can 
be inverted without fear of their sUpping from it, 
then add three tablespoons of granulated sugar 
(never powdered for a meringue), and beat again 
until the mixture will hold its shape. Now add the 
rest of the sugar and the flavoring and beat hghtly. 
Spread over the pudding and place in a very moder- 
ate oven. Brown delicately. The meringue should 
not begin to color for five minutes and should not 
be sufficiently cooked for eight minutes. A me- 
ringue may be varied by the addition of two tea- 
spoons of grated chocolate melted over the hot water. 
This is very nice for a chocolate, cocoanut, or plain 
pudding. 

The caramel or the chocolate bread pudding may 
also be varied by spreading halved marshmallows 
over the surface, then returning the pudding to the 
oven for a few moments to brown delicately. 

Rice Pudding 

(Caramel 
Fig 
Fruit 
French Rice Pudding { Chocolate 

A good rice pudding is always popular, whether 
it be plain or elaborate, and one of the most often 
served, but perhaps the least often well made, is 
the simple pudding which is known as Poor Man's 
Pudding. It is not difiicult to make, but there are 
certain principles which must be remembered to 
attain success. ' 

178 



HOT DESSERTS 

Use only fresh milk. 

Never add salt till pudding is nearly finished. 

If fruit is used, add toward the end of the baking. 

Always bake very slowly. 

Curdled rice puddings should be the exception, 
but they are too often the rule. The reasons for 
this are because the milk is not fresh enough, or salt, 
fruit, or sugar is added at the beginning of the bak- 
ing, or the oven has been too hot. A deUcate 
pudding in which the rice has cooked to a cream 
demands a slow oven, nailk that is no older than a 
day, and no salt, flavoring, or fruit added until it 
is almost finished. 

Poor Man's Pudding 

4 cups milk i teaspoon salt 

3 tablespoons rioe ■ | cup sugar 

Flavoring 

Wash the rice thoroughly in several waters, then 
drain it well. Place in a buttered pudding dish 
and pour in the milk. Put to bake in a very moderate 
oven, bake very slowly for two hours, stirring every 
twenty minutes, then add the sugar, salt, and 
flavoring, and continue baking for an hour. Do 
not stir after these ingredients are added, but let 
the pudding become a deUcate brown. 

Caramel Rice Pudding. Make the Poor Man's 
Pudding as usual, but flavor it with a tablespoon of 
sugar melted over a hot fixe to a bright golden 
brown. Pour half a cup of cold milk over the 
caramel and stir till well dissolved, then add to 

179 



CAROLINE KING'S COOK BOOK 

the pudding with the sugar and salt. Remember 
the caramel does not sweeten but merely flavors the 
pudding. 

Fig Pudding. Add a cup of chopped figs to the 
Poor Man's Pudding when stirring it for the last 
time. Finish as usual. 

Fruit Pudding. Add a cup of chopped raisins to 
the Poor Man's Pudding as in fig pudding. 

French Rice Pudding. There is another form of 
rice pudding which is also very good; it is richer 
than the first as it contains eggs and butter. In 
this form, cold boiled rice left from a previous meal 
may be utiUzed, or the rice may be especially cooked 
for the pudding. The French rice pudding which 
is described shortly is one of the most dehcious rice 
dishes that one could wish. 

French Rice Pudding 

J cup rice 2 eggs 

1 pint milk and water ^ cup sugar 

mixed I cup additional milk 

I teaspoon salt Juice and grated rind 
1 large tablespoon butter of 1 lemon 

Boil the rice, well washed, in a pint of milk and 
water mixed, or if cold rice is used, cover with milk, 
bring to the boiUng point, and simmer. When the 
rice has cooked to the soft, jellyUke stage, add half 
a teaspoon of salt, a little more Uquid if necessary, 
and a large tablespoon of butter. Beat well and 
cool. Beat two eggs to a creamy froth and add to 
the rice, also half a cup of milk, half a cup of sugar, 

180 



HOT DESSERTS 

and the juice and grated rind of a lemon. Pour 
into a greased pudding dish and bake slowly for 
forty-five minutes. Spread the pudding with melted 
butter and cover thickly with powdered sugar. 
Return to the oven to glaze. 

French Rice Chocolate Pudding. Make the pud- 
ding by the foregoing formula, omitting the lemon and 
adding one square of unsweetened chocolate. 



Tapioca Pudding 

Tapioca I*udding 



f Fruit 
Custard 

Tapioca Meringue 
Tapioca Cocoanut Pudding 



A third thickening agent which is often employed 
in making puddings is tapioca. This product is 
obtained from the roots of the cassava plant and is 
extremely nourishing and digestible. It is usually 
combined with eggs, milk, or fruit, which add to its 
value as a food product. In preparing it, the follow- 
ing principles must be observed : 

Soak the tapioca in cold water. 
Cook in boiling water tUl clear. 
Combine with other ingredients as preferred. 

There is a quickly prepared tapioca on the market 
which is used by many housewives. The puddings 
described here, however, are made of the variety 
which requires soaking in cold water. Tapioca 
may be obtained in either the flake or the pearl 
form, as one prefers. In preparing it, the same rule 
will answer for either variety. 

181 



CAROLINE KING'S COOK BOOK 

Tapioca Fruit Pudding 

1 oup tapioca i teaspoon salt 

Cold water I cup sugar 

3 cups boiling water Fruit 

Soak the tapioca in cold water till tender, then 
drain, and add to the boiling water, and cook till 
clear. Add the salt and mix well. Core and pare 
six apples and arrange in a buttered pudding dish, 
fill the cavities with the sugar, and sprinkle with 
nutmeg if desired. Pour the tapioca over the apples 
and bake in a moderate oven till the apples are 
tender. Serve with cream or with pudding sauce. 

Peaches, quinces, strawberries, blackberries, rasp- 
berries, or cherries may be substituted for the apples 
in this pudding. When using small fruits, place them 
in the dish in alternate layers with the tapioca. 
Then proceed as in the apple tapioca. Canned 
peaches are very good used in this way. 

Tapioca Custard Pudding 

1 cup tapioca J cup sugar 

3 cups milk | teaspoon salt 

2 eggs 1 tablespoon butter 

Flavoring 

Soak the tapioca as in the previous recipe, then 
drain, and cover with boiling water. Cook till clear, 
and add the milk, which has been brought to the 
boiling point. Continue cooking for three minutes. 
Beat the eggs with the sugar and salt and add to 
the hot mixture; stir the butter in also and the 

182 



HOT DESSERTS 

flavoring. Pour into a buttered baking dish and 
bake half an hour. Serve with or without cream 
or sauce. 

Tapioca Meringue. Make the pudding as in 
foregoing recipe, omitting the whites of the eggs. 
Flavor with a tablespoon of lemon juice and the 
grated rind of half a lemon. When baked, spread 
with a meringue made as previously described. 
Flavor with lemon juice and spread over the pud- 
ding. Brown deUcately in a slow oven. 

Tapioca Cocoanut Pudding. Make the tapioca 
custard and, just before pouring it into the baking 
dish, add a cup of grated or desiccated cocoanut. 
Finish as in tapioca meringue. 



Boiled and Steamed Puddings 

Suet 



Boiled and Steamed Puddings 



Indian 

, Batter 



fKg 
I Plum 

Peach 
Chocolate 
Blackberry 
Apple 
Cherry, etc. 



Any pudding which is to be cooked by boihng may 
be steamed as well, if that method is preferred. A 
steamed pudding is apt to be more light and di- 
gestible than one which is immersed in the boihng 
water unless the principles which govern this type 
of cookery are closely followed. There is only one 
principle which must be remembered in making 

183 



CAROLINE KING'S COOK BOOK 

boiled and steamed puddings, but this is a most im- 
portant one : 

Never allow the water to cease boiling during the cooking 
of a pudding of this type. 

This is the whole secret of success in making 
hght, digestible boiled or steamed desserts. The 
moment the water ceases to boil, the pudding will 
become heavy and indigestible. This is the reason 
that so many persons shun a boiled pudding. Prop- 
erly made it should be puffy, Ught, and delicate. 

In the chapter on doughs, I explained the making 
of roly-poly puddings. The puddings which will 
be described in this department, while also having 
flour as a thickening agent, will be made on a dif- 
ferent plan. 

Steamed Pudding 

i cup butter 2 teaspoons baking 

1 cup sugar powder 

3 eggs i cup milk 

3 cups flour Flavoring 

Cream the butter and sugar and add the eggs well 
beaten. Mix and sift together the flour, salt, and 
baking powder, and add alternately with the milk 
to the first mixture. Flavor and turn into a but- 
tered mold, cover closely, and stand the mold in a 
kettle of boiling water. Steam three hours, then 
turn from the mold and serve with any desired sauce. 

If it is desired to boil this pudding, place the batter 
in a well-greased pudding cloth, tie tightly, leaving 
room for the pudding to expand, and plunge into 

184 



HOT DESSERTS 

rapidly boiling water. Boil without ceasing for an 
hour and a half. If necessary, replenish the water, 
but use only that which is actually boiUng. 

Steamed Blueberry Pudding. Add one and a 
half cups of blueberries to the plain steamed pudding 
and proceed as directed. 

Steamed Cranberry Pudding. Substitute cran- 
berries for the blueberries. 

Steamed Peach Pudding. Substitute two cups 
of pared and shced peaches for the other fruit. 

Raisins, currants, chopped apples, blackberries, 
etc., may be used instead of any of the other fruits. 

Steamed Chocolate Pudding. Melt a square of 
chocolate over hot water and add to the plain steamed 
pudding, then proceed as in the first formula. 

Suet Puddings. Suet puddings include the rich 
plum pudding, the tasty molasses pudding, fig pud- 
ding, and various others which are very substantial 
and more suitable for cold weather than for summer. 
They are perfectly wholesome if made carefully 
and cooked according to principle. 

Plain Suet Pudding 

1 cup suet finely chopped 1 teaspoon soda 

1 cup molasses 1 teaspoon salt 

1 cup milk Spioes to taste 

3 cups white or whole-wheat flour 

Mix the dry ingredients together and chop the 
suet very fine, adding a Uttle flour if it sticks to the 
knife. Add the molasses and milk to the suet, and 

185 



CAROLINE KING'S COOK BOOK 

flavor with half a teaspoon each of ginger and nut- 
meg and a teaspoon of cinnamon, or with any other 
combination of spices preferred. Combine the mix- 
tures and pour into a well-greased mold. Steam 
for three hours, tl\pn turn out and serve with any 
preferred sauce. This pudding may be boiled by 
following the directions previously given. 

Steamed Fruit Pudding. Make the plain suet 
pudding and add to the batter a cup each of chopped 
raisins and cleaned currants. 

Steamed Fig Pudding. Make the suet pudding, 
omitting the molasses and adding an additional half 
cup of milk, half a cup of sugar, and a cup and a half 
of figs chopped fine. 

Plum Pudding. A plum pudding is only a richer 
form of the suet pudding described as plain suet 
pudding. To the formula for that dessert add a 
cup of raisins seeded and chopped, a cup of cleaned 
currants, half a cup of candied citron sUced very thin 
and cut in small pieces, and half a cup of English 
walnut meats coarsely chopped. Steam in a but- 
tered mold five hours, or place in a well-buttered and 
floured pudding cloth, tie closely, but leaving enough 
space for the pudding to expand, and boil steadily 
for foiir hours. Keep the pudding immersed in the 
boiling water for the entire time of its cooking. 



186 



CHAPTER XIV 

SOUFFLES 

While the souffle is regarded generally as a des- 
sert, it is also used as an entree or a savory dish for 
luncheon or dinner. Its foundation is invariably 
a form of the thick white sauce described in Chapter 
VI. 

When the souffle is to be served as a dessert, 
sugar, eggs, and whatever flavor is preferred are 
added to the sauce, and the souffle is baked in a 
moderately hot oven. A successful souffle should 
be Ught, spongy, and fine-grained, and must be 
served as soon as it is taken from the oven. The 
flavor may be coffee, chocolate, fruit juice or pulp, 
cocoanut, or whatever seems especially suitable for 
the demands of the occasion. 

Plain Souffle 

2 tablespoons butter 3 eggs 

2 tablespoons flour i cup sugar 

1 cup milk i teaspoon salt 

Melt the butter and flour together over the fire, 
as in making white sauce, and, when bubbling, add 
the cold milk. Cook gently till thick and smooth. 

187 



CAROLINE KING'S COOK BOOK 

Then remove from the fire and add the sugar, salt, 
and the yolks of eggs beaten until light. Fold in 
the stiffly whipped whites of the eggs and pour into 
a buttered baking dish or into ramekins or custard 
cups. Place in a pan of hot water and bake thirty 
minutes in a moderate oven. If baked in ramekins, 
the souffl6 will require but twenty-five minutes' 
baking. 

Coffee Souffl6. Substitute a cup of clear strong 
coffee for the milk in the formula for plain souffle 
and proceed in the same manner. 

Chocolate Souffle. To the plain souffle add two 
ounces of unsweetened chocolate grated and melted 
over hot water. 

Fruit Souffle. Mash a cup of strawberries, rasp- 
berries, peaches, or other fruit and press through a 
sieve. Add the pulp to the plain souffl6, making 
the white sauce slightly thicker if the fruit is un- 
usually juicy. Finish as in other souffles. 



Pudding Sauces 

f Nun's Butter 
I naxa oauce 

Pudding Sauces 



f Hard Sauce I j^^g^^^^ 



[Liquid Sauce 



Lemon Sauce: Foamy Sauce 
Cream Sauce : Fruit Sauce 
Yellow Sauce 
Chocolate Sauce 



For all practical piu-poses, the fist of pudding 
sauces contained in this outline comprises all that 
will be required by any housewife. Each of the 

188 



SOUFFLES 

sauces designated above may be varied to suit the 
occasion and all are extremely good without any 
additions or changes. 

The hard sauce is useful for serving on all hot 
puddings ; it is very good when served quite plain 
or it may be transformed into nun's butter or a 
delicious fruit sauce very easily. The basic prin- 
ciples which must be kept in mind in making a 
satisfactory hard sauce are : 

Cream butter •well ; 
Add powdered sugar ; 
Beat vigorously ; 
Add flavor. 

The butter should be washed if very salty, as it 
is apt to curdle the sauce when the flavoring is 
added, if the latter be fruit. Cream the butter 
alone until soft and light, then add the Sugar, a little 
at a time, and continue creaming till thoroughly 
blended and fluffy. Flavoring may be varied as 
desired. 

The following formula, with variations, will 
answer for plain hard sauce, nun's butter, and fruit 
sauce. 

Plain Hard Sauce 

J cup butter i teaspoon vanilla 

1 cup powdered sugar 

Nun's Butter. Make the plain hard sauce and 
beat into it the well-whipped white of one egg. 
Flavor with sherry, orange, or lemon. 

189 



CAROLINE KING'S COOK BOOK 

Fruit Sauce. Cream the butter and sugar as 
usual, and add half a cup of crushed strawberries, 
raspberries, or peaches. Blend together thoroughly, 
then add the stiffly beaten white of one egg. 

Liquid Sauces 

Of the liquid sauces the lemon is the most fa- 
miUar. It is an easily made sauce and very good 
with almost any of the boiled or steamed puddings. 

Lemon Sauce 

} cup sugar 1 tablespoon lemon juioe 

2 teaspoons cornstarch Few grains mace or nutmeg 
1 cup boiling water Few grains of salt 

1 tablespoon butter 

Mix together the sugar, cornstarch, and salt, and 
pour the boiling water over the mixture. Stir 
constantly over hot water till well blended and thick. 
Cook long enough to remove the raw taste, then 
add butter, mace, and lemon juice. Serve at once. 

Foamy Sauce. Foamy sauce is built upon the 
lemon sauce foundation ; the lemon may be omitted 
and any preferred flavor added. Fresh fruit juice 
or the juice from canned fruit is very good. Make 
the sauce as directed, but just before removing from 
the fire, add the well-whipped yolk of an egg. Beat 
the white of the egg to a stiff froth ai^d pour the hot 
sauce over it, beating all the time. Stand over hot 
water for a few minutes and whip well. Serve at 
once. 

190 



SOUFFLES 

Cream Sauce is used on cold puddings and is 
made in a different manner from the other sauces. 

Cream Sauce 

1 cup cream J cup powdered sugar 

Flavoring 

Whip the cream to a stiff froth, using the egg 
beater, then add the sugar and flavoring. Whip 
again and place on ice till required. 

Fruit Sauce is a variation of the cream sauce. 
Add the juice of strawberries, raspberries, or any- 
preferred fruit to the sauce in such proportions as 
desired. Add more sugar also, as necessary. 

Yellow Sauce 

1 egg I cup powdered sugar 

Flavoring 

This is a dehcious sauce with blancmanges and 
other cold puddings. It is also good with vanilla 
ice cream. Beat the yolk of the egg to a light froth 
and add the sugar. Beat with the egg beater till 
thick and light colored. Then whip the white of 
the egg stiff and add to the mixture ; beat till light 
and foamy. Sherry is a very acceptable flavor for 
this sauce, but fruit juices or vanilla may be sub- 
stituted. 

Chocolate Sauce 

This sauce is especially designed for serving on 
vanilla ice cream. It is also very good on cold 
puddings of various kinds. 

191 



CAROLINE KING'S COOK BOOK 

1 cup water Vanilla 

i oup sugar 1 teaspoon cornstarch 

6 tablespoons grated J cup cold water 

chocolate Pinch of salt 

Boil the water with the sugar five minutes. Add 
the cold water to the cornstarch and chocolate and 
mix to a paste. Add to the boiling syrup with the 
salt. Cook for three minutes. Flavor with vanilla 
and serve hot. 



192 



PART II 

PROCESSES 



PROCESSES 

In the foregoing pages of this book I have endeav- 
ored to show how cookery may be more easily com- 
prehended and simphfied by dividing it into classes, 
and after explaining the foundation formula or 
principles upon which the various dishes are built, 
to teach the housewife how to prepare all of the food 
products which she may desire to undertake, by 
using these basic recipes or principles and building 
her finished products upon them. 

In the second part of the volume, the processes 
of food preparation will be treated. Cookery of 
all sorts is divided into but four classes : boiling, 
roasting, baking, and frying; and no matter how 
comphcated or mysterious the finished product may 
appear, we may be sure that in its preparation one 
or more of these forms of cookery have been used. 
But to boil, roast, bake, or fry successfully requires 
a knowledge of the subject, intelligence, and expe- 
rience, and it is my purpose to present these methods 
to the reader as clearly and fully as possible, so that 
she will find it a simple matter to prepare in an 
appetizing, wholesome manner under all conditions 
the foods which she has pm-chased. 

195 



CAROLINE KING'S COOK BOOK 

The conservation of fruits and vegetables will 
also be discussed, and simple methods of putting 
away a stock of canned vegetables and fruits, pre- 
serves, and jellies will be described in detail. 

The proper methods of combining materials in 
the making of all of the dishes described in this 
and other books on cookery will be explained, also 
various wa,ys of beautifying finished dishes by means 
of garnishings and decorations. 



196 



CHAPTER XV 

PROCESSES 



Boiling 



Simmering 
Stewing 
Braising 
Steaming 



In the earliest times, when man, in the first pro- 
cess of civiUzation, began to prepare his food by 
the application of heat, instead of devouring it 
raw as did the lower animals, he invented a method 
of cooking it in water, producing a sort of rude 
broth, which he found both acceptable and nourish- 
ing. This method consisted in forming a rough and 
ungainly utensil from the skin of the animal to be 
cooked, placing its flesh, cut in pieces, in the vessel, 
and filhng the latter with water. As it would not 
have been practicable to have placed this soup 
kettle over the fire, primitive man contrived to cook 
his broth by means of large stones, which he heated 
in his fire and then placed in the kettle. This 
process was repeated until the broth was cooked to 
his satisfaction. Then he ate it, unseasoned and 
unflavored, except for the sand and grit and leaves 
which probably found their way into his soup kettle. 

197 



CAROLINE KING'S COOK BOOK 

It is a far cry from the soup kettle and boiled 
meats of our prehistoric ancestors to the nourish- 
ing, stimulating broths, stews, and braised meats 
of to-day, but the method of cookery which origi- 
nated with the cave man is the method which is 
most in use in our modem kitchens. BoiUng in 
one of its forms is used more extensively than any 
other means in the preparation of meats, vege- 
tables, fish, eggs, beverages, and many desserts. 

Although this form of cookery is so old and 
presumably so simple a process, it is not so clearly 
comprehended as it should be. The time-honored 
joke about the housewife who could not boil water 
without burning it has more foimdation than one 
might believe. To boil water or any article of food 
that is cooked by simmering, stewing, steaming, 
or braising requires a careful attention to detail, 
as well as an intelligent understanding of the condi- 
tions and principles necessary to the success of the 
undertaking. 

The housewife must possess a thorough under- 
standing of the difference between boiling and 
simmering, for many a dish has been made almost 
unfit to eat because of ignorance on this subject. 
The heat must be properly regulated, the saucepan 
clean, possessing a tightly fitting lid, and large 
enough to permit the articles in the process of 
cookery to expand as they should. 

When the vessel containing cold water is placed 
over the fire, bubbles will be noticed forming on the 

,198 



PROCESSES 

bottom almost as soon as the heat reaches the water. 
As the heat increases, they will become larger, and 
soon these bubbles, which are filled with an invis- 
ible gas produced by the action of the heat, will 
begin to travel upward through the water. When 
they reach the surface and the cool air strikes 
them, they will burst and the gas escape into the 
outer air. This bubbling is not what is imderstood 
by boiling; it is merely simmering, and if you 
should take the temperature of the water at this 
stage, you would find the thermometer would register 
185° F. 

The heat must increase to 212° F. before the water 
actually boils. But when this point is reached, the 
water will become no hotter, no matter how the 
heat under the saucepan is augmented and how 
rapidly and madly the water bubbles. The tem- 
peratm-e of boiling water is always 212° F. ; there- 
fore, the meat or vegetable which the saucepan 
contains will cook no faster nor become any more 
tender, however great the amount of heat given it. 

If this principle of boiling is thoroughly compre- 
hended, the housewife will realize that to keep the 
gas jet turned on to the full extent, or allow the 
drafts of her coal range to remain open after the 
water has reached the boiling point is little short of 
criminal waste. Besides, many products are ruined 
by too rapid boiling. 

Boiling comprises also simmering, stewing, brais- 
ing, and steaming, each of which methods is distinct 

199 



CAROLINE KING'S COOK BOOK 

and separate, and all are equally useful in the prep- 
aration of food products. 

Simmering, which is the method least understood, 
is at the same time one of the most important for 
the housewife to comprehend clearly. It is a gentle, 
gradual, imiform heating of the Uquid, which should 
almost but never quite reach the boihng point. To 
use an old saying, " the pot should smile, not laugh." 
If a boiling thermometer is used in cookery, it should 
register 185° F., no more. As soon as the mercury 
begins to travel above that mark, the Uquid will 
begin to boil, and the result which is desired will 
not be attained. Soups, corned beef, coarse-fibered 
meats, dehcate vegetables such as peas and lima 
beans, should always be simmered, never boUed. 

Stewing is merely another form of simmering, 
with the exception that when it is employed, but a 
small quantity of Uquid is used. Meats cooked by 
this method yield all of their juices and gelatines, 
and the gravy is rich and nourishing. 

Braising is another form of stewing, and a more 
delicate one. Braised meat is given but a very Uttle 
Uquid, and is usually surromided with vegetables and 
herbs, cooked a long time, and highly seasoned. 

Steaming is cooking over, and not in, boiling 
water. In this method of cookery the water must 
be kept actually boiUng for the entire length of time 
required for cooking the article. If boiling ceases 
even for a few moments, a soggy result is almost 
inevitable. 

200 



PROCESSES 

. In cooking meats by the boiling process the fol- 
lowing principles must be observed: 

Sear the meat by plunging it into boiling water. 

Bring rapidly to the boiling point. 

Boil three minutes. 

Reduce heat and simmer till tender. 

These principles underlie the cooking of all 
meats, poultry, and fish which are to be prepared 
by boiling. If the article is to be served cold, as 
chicken, tongue, ham, or corned beef, it should be 
allowed to cool in the liquid. Then drain well, 
and shce thin. 

If the meat has been prepared to serve hot, take 
it at once from the liquid and serve with any pre- 
ferred sauce. The hquid should be reserved for 
soup making. Sometimes it is a very good plan 
when cooking beef, veal, or mutton by boiUng to 
add to the water a smaU onion, one medium-sized 
carrot, a small piece of bay leaf, a few celery seeds, 
and one or two cloves. Do not add salt until the 
meat is partially cooked, for the salt will draw out 
the juices, as was explained in the chapter on meats. 

The seasonings wiU impart flavor to the meat, and 
win also improve the broth. Other seasonings may 
be used as preferred. A tablespoon of walnut 
catsup, a green pepper cut in pieces, a few green 
celery leaves, or a sprig or two of parsley will be 
excellent. 

As to the proper accessory sauces for boiled meats, 
poultry, and fish, here are a few suggestions : 

201 



CAROLINE KING'S COOK BOOK 

Boiled Beef — Horseradish, drawn-butter, parsley, or white 

sauce. 
Boiled Mutton — Caper sauce, parsley sauce, celery sauce. 
Boiled Fish — Parsley, egg, or HoUandaise sauce. 
Boiled Fowl — Drawn-butter, parsley, creole, egg, or Chan- 

tiUy sauce. 

In cooking cereals, the water must always be 
rapidly boiling when the grains are put into it. 
This is a fixed rule which must not be overlooked. 
The greater part of all grains is starch, and each 
particle of starch is inclosed in a wall of cellulose, 
which must be broken down quickly so that the 
starch may be cooked without first soaking and 
becoming soggy. By exposing the grain to water 
heated to 212° F. the best results are gained. 

These few principles control the cooking of all 
cereals : 

Rapidly boiling water ; 

Salt added to water ; 

Cereal sifted slowly into water. 

The salt is added to the water before the cereal, 
as this method improves the flavor; one teaspoon 
to a pint of water is the proper proportion. The 
cereal is poured into the water slowly in order that 
the temperature of the water may not be percep- 
tibly lowered by the cold grain. All grain food 
should be thoroughly cooked, but it is not neces- 
sary, except in the case of rice, macaroni, and spa- 
ghetti, to cook them rapidly for the required length 
of time. After the boiling has been well established, 
they may be finished in the double boiler or in the 
fireless cooker. 

202 



PROCESSES 

Rice, macaroni, and spaghetti should be boiled 
very rapidly, in order that the grains and pieces 
be kept separate and distinct. When the cooking 
is finished, these products should be rinsed with 
cold water to remove starchy particles and prevent 
them from being pasty, then bQiling water should 
be poured over them to reheat them. By following 
this method, every grain will stand out separately, 
white and distinct. 

In preparing dried fruits or vegetables for the 
table, cold water is used, for the reason that these 
products, having been deprived of all their natural 
moisture, must be suppUed with an adequate amount 
to make them wholesome and digestible. 

All dried fruits and vegetables should be washed 
and examined carefully. They should then be 
soaked for several hours in cold fresh water. Beans, 
peas, and some other very hard products will require 
to be soaked from ten to twelve hours, fruits but 
three or four hours. When well expanded, they 
should be placed over the fire in the water in which 
they were soaked, and brought slowly to the boiling 
point, then simmered till tender; sugar should be 
added to fruits during the last fifteen minutes of 
boiUng. 

Eggs require careful treatment in boiling, or they 
will prove indigestible and unwholesome. The 
common custom of placing them in boiling water 
and cooking them from three to five minutes is 
wrong, because the delicate albumen will begin to 

203 ^^ 



CAROLINE KING'S COOK BOOK 

cook the moment the heat strikes the shell, and by 
the time the yolk has cooked sufficiently, the white 
of the egg will be hard and tough. 

To properly boil them, they should be placed in 
a saucepan of cold water over the fire and allowed 
to come only to the boiling point. The saucepan 
should then be placed on a cool part of the range 
for two minutes, then the eggs will be soft and jelly- 
like throughout and perfectly digestible, even for 
an invalid or a very young child. If liked harder, 
they may remain in the hot water for a longer time. 
But they must not boil at any time. 

Coffee and tea are often spoiled by the maimer 
in which they are made. 

CofEee, if it is not made in a percolator, should 
be finely ground, but not pulverized. It should be 
measured and a level tablespoonful allowed for each 
cup of water. Pour the cold water over the coffee 
and bring rapidly to the boiling point; as soon as 
the liquid boils, remove it to a cool part of the 
range, allow it to stand for a moment, then add 
one fourth of a cup of cold water to clear it ; let it 
stand again for a short period before serving. Al- 
ways serve ptu-e cream with coffee if you wish it to 
be deUcate and aromatic. 

Tea should never be boiled. Scald the teapot 
and measure into it one teaspoon of tea for each 
person to be served. Be sure that the water is 
fresh and freshly boiling. Water that has boiled 
some minutes, or boiled and cooled and boiled again, 

204 



PROCESSES 

is flat and tasteless. Pour the boiling water over 
the tea and allow it to stand in a warm place for 
three to five minutes. Lemon slices or cream should 
accompany tea. 

Stewing. When stewing meats, the searing of the 
surface may be accomplished either by plunging the 
meat into boiling water, or by browning it on all 
sides in a very Uttle drippings. For a rich brown 
stew, the latter method is advisable, but as it is 
more troublesome, the first is frequently used. 

If the meat is seared by plunging it into boiling 
water, the amount of water should be only sufii- 
cient to cover it, and as soon as the surface pores 
have been sealed by contact with the boiling water, 
the heat should be lowered, or the saucepan moved 
to a cooler part of the range where the water will 
merely simmer. 

Rapid boiling of meats will not make them ten- 
der, even though the connecting tissue between the 
fibers be reduced to rags ; the fibers themselves will 
still remain tough and stringy. Simmering pro- 
duces a tender, juicy, richly flavored piece of meat 
that will be eaten with zest by all who partake 
of it. 

Chicken which is abnormally tough will yield to 
this method of cookery very successfully. Corned 
beef, smoked tongue, boiling pieces, and stews of 
veal, mutton, lamb, or beef will be very appetizing 
when so prepared, and flavored with various herbs 
and vegetables. This method is especially recom- 

205 



CAROLINE KING'S COOK BOOK 

mended in the preparation of fish, which would 
become broken and imsightly if allowed to boil. 

Braising is a more elaborate method of stewing 
and even less water is used when it is employed. 
The meat is usually browned first, and various vege- 
tables are added in the process of cooking it. Some- 
times no water at all is used, but a small quantity 
of vinegar is substituted. This has the effect of 
making the meat even more tender. 

Braised Beef or Pot Roast. The flank of beef is 
excellent for cooking in this way. Remove the 
skin and some of the fat from the flank, and put 
these in the oven to render out the fat, covering 
them with a little water during the process. Sprinkle 
the beef with two teaspoons of salt, one fourth tea- 
spoon of pepper, and a liberal dash of paprika, a 
tablespoon of finely chopped parsley, and a pinch 
of thyme or summer savory. Roll up tightly and 
tie with a string. Dredge the meat with flour 
and brown it in a little of the fat, then place in a 
heavy saucepan with a wine glass of vinegar and two 
cloves. Cover closely and place over the hot part 
of the range. When the outer surface of the meat 
seems well seared, reduce the heat and cook very 
slowly for two hours. Add no water. Then place 
a sliced carrot and half an onion in the kettle with 
the meat, also half a pint of boiling water and a 
tablespoon of Worcestershire sauce, catsup, or any 
preferred sauce. Simmer slowly for t)ro hours 
longer, then take up on a hot platter, remove the 

206 



PROCESSES 

strings, and strain the gravy about the meat after 
skimming the fat from it . During the cooking a little 
more water may be added if necessary, and if the 
gravy is not thick enough, it may be made so by the 
addition of a tablespoon of flour blended with a 
tablespoon of water. Any preferred cut of veal, 
mutton, or lamb may be cooked in this manner. 

Braised Roast. A piece of round of beef weigh- 
ing from three to four pounds may be used for this 
dish ; pork, veal, lamb, mutton, chicken, or duck 
may be cooked by the same method. In a heavy 
saucepan place a large onion, carrot, and turnip, 
all sUced, also a sprig of parsley, and a small piece 
of bay leaf. Lay a thin layer of fat salt pork over 
these, then the meat, duck, or chicken neatly tied 
in position. Cover with thin layers of pork, pour 
a cup of boiling water in the kettle, and place a 
tightly fitting lid on the saucepan. If the lid does 
not fit as closely as it should, cover it with a weight, 
for the steam must not escape. Place over the fire 
where it will just simmer for an hour, then add 
seasonings and simmer for an hour and a half, or 
until tender. Take up on a platter and place the 
vegetables about the meat. This dish may be pre- 
pared in the casserole in the oven if preferred. 

Braised Round Steak with Italian Spaghetti. 
Cut a poimd of round steak into cubes and dip 
each in flour, then sear all over in hot drippings 
and place in a heavy saucepan. Cover with the 
juice from a can of tomatoes or from a quart of 

207 



CAROLINE KING'S COOK BOOK 

fresh tomatoes, add one large onion sliced, two 
green peppers cut in small pieces and freed from 
their seeds, a teaspoon of salt, one fourth a teaspoon 
of pepper, and a sprinkling of paprika. Cover the 
saucepan and simmer for two hours. Then add a 
cup of oUve oil and continue simmering till the sauce 
is quite thick. Meantime, put a pound of long 
spaghetti to cook in rapidly boiUng water and cook 
quickly till tender. This will require about twenty 
minutes. Add salt during the last ten minutes of 
cooking. Drain and rinse with cold water, then pour 
boiling water through the spaghetti to reheat it. 
Place the spaghetti on a large platter in layers with 
grated cheese. Pour some of the sauce over the 
spaghetti and pile the rest with the meat in the 
center of the platter. When finished, sprinkle 
thickly with Parmesan cheese. Serve very hot. 
Mushrooms may be added to this dish if desired. 
They should be added to the saucepan with the 
meat during the last half hour of cooking. 

Steaming is an excellent method to use ia cooking 
delicate vegetables. The articles to be cooked 
are washed and placed in a perforated steamer over 
rapii^y boiling water, which is never allowed to 
cease boiling until the process is finished. New 
potatoes, asparagus, peas, lima beans, and all such 
vegetables as are liable to break or go to pieces in 
cooking are improved by steaming. As this pro- 
cess requires a longer time than boiUng, one should 
allow one fourth more than the period necessary. 

208 



PROCESSES 

Brown bread, batter puddings, and cereals are 
steamed by placing the receptacles containing them 
in rapidly boiling water. Dumplings are steamed 
by placing them on a plate in the steamer, over 
fast boiling water. 

Boston Brown Bread. Mix together and sift one 
cup each of rye meal, corn meal, and whole-wheat 
or graham flour, one teaspoon of soda, and a tea- 
spoon of salt. Add two cups of sour milk to three 
fourths cup of molasses and combine the mixtures. 
Turn into a buttered mold and place the cover on 
tightly. Place the mold in a kettle of rapidly boil- 
ing water, cover and steam three hours, then place 
the mold in a moderate oven for half an hour. 

Steamed Fruit Pudding. Cream together one 
fourth of a cup of butter and one fourth of a cup 
of sugar. Sift together one and one half cups of 
flour and two teaspoons of baking powder, add alter- 
nately with half a cup of milk to the butter and 
sugar. Then add the well-beaten yolks of two eggs 
and a cup of raisins, strawberries, cherries, or any 
preferred fruit; finally beat in the stiffly whipped 
whites of the eggs and pour into a buttered pudding 
mold. Steam in the same manner as describe 1 in 
the foregoing recipe for an hom- and a half. 



209 



CHAPTER XVI 

ROASTING 

r Broiling 

«-tiug tea 

[ Parching 

Roasting is the most elemental of all fonns of 
cookery. It is a survival of that earhest of all 
methods of burying meats or herbs in the hot sand or 
in hot ashes until they were seared on all surfaces. 
This primitive manner of cookery is still observed 
in camps, and many a delicious dish of freshly caught 
fish, game, roast potatoes, or corn is prepared in the 
ashes of the camp fire. 

Later, when kitchens and fireplaces came into 
fashion, the housewife roasted her meats by suspend- 
ing them before the blaze of the open fire, placing 
a pan beneath them to catch the juices, with which 
she frequently basted the smoking joints. In these 
days of gas and coal ranges we no longer utiUze the 
open fire for preparing meats, but place them either 
in the well-heated oven to roast, or we broil our 
steaks or chops by means of the coals or gas flame 
— for broiUng is but another form of roasting as it 
was originally imderstood. Toasting is still another 

210 



ROASTING 

form of roasting, and planking and parching are also 
included in the same class. By observing the follow- 
ing principles, any piece of meat may be successfully 
roasted : 

Hot oven ; 

Meat placed in oven without water ; 

BoUing water added after surface searing is complete ; 

Frequent basting. 

Roasting by means of the oven is quite as satis- 
factory a means of cooking meats as the open fire, 
when the oven is well constructed and well ven- 
tilated. For successful roasting, the oven should be 
hotter than for bread baking. If a thermometer be 
used, the mercury should point to 450° or 500° F. 
The meat shoiild be well wiped with a damp cloth, 
sprinkled with a Uttle flour, placed on a rack in a 
dripping pan, and put into the oven; without season- 
ing. In fifteen minutes, when the surface of the meat 
is well seared, the heat of the oven should be lowered, 
and the cooking continued. One cupful of boiUng 
water may be placed in the pan after the meat has 
been roasting half an hour, to mingle with the fat 
and to be used in basting the meat every fifteen 
minutes. Basting is very necessary in roasting, as 
it prevents the meat from becoming dry. 

It is not always necessary to have an expensive 
piece of meat for roasting, as some of the cheaper 
cuts, if properly prepared, may also be cooked by 
this method. If one of the tough, coarse, but juicy 
portions is selected, it should be finely chopped, 

211 



CAROLINE KING'S COOK BOOK 

made into a loaf with suitable flavors, and roasted 
in the same manner as a finer cut. 

Italian Beef Loaf is excellent. Chop together or 
run through a food chopper a pound of beef cut from 
one of the coarser sections and half a pound of 
fresh lean pork. Add one finely chopped green 
pepper, a teaspoon of salt, one fourth of a teaspoon 
of pepper, and paprika to taste. Beat one egg and 
mix with the meat and flavorings, then add a cup of 
soft bread crumbs. Make into a loaf and place strips 
of bacon across the top. Place in a greased dripping 
pan and pour two cups of strained tomato juice 
about the meat, add a small onion sliced, and a very 
small piece of bay leaf ; also one fourth of a teaspoon 
of salt and a spriukling of pepper. Roast the loaf 
in a hot oven for forty minutes. Then remove to 
a hot platter and strain the gravy around it. 

Broiling is but another form of roasting, or perhaps 
one should say that roasting is a form of broiling, 
for they are very similar in their results. But while 
roasting is the form of cookery usually selected for 
the preparation of large pieces of meat, broiling is 
preferable for those cuts having a broad flat surface, 
such as steaks, or for such smaller cuts of meats as 
chops or cutlets; fish and chicken are often cooked 
in this manner also, especially when they are tender 
and delicate. 

As in roasting the object is to coagulate the 
albumen on the sm-face of the meat as quickly as 
possible and prevent the juices from escaping, so it 

212 



ROASTING 

is in broiling. The pores must be sealed speedily, 
and all of the flavor and rich juices imprisoned in the 
meat. 

In those kitchens which are equipped with gas 
ranges, the broiUng is accompUshed under the flame 
of the broiling oven. If a coal range is used, the 
meat is placed on the hot broiler and held over the 
red coals. To successfully broil meat, fish, or 
chicken, the following principles must be observed : 

Heat the broiler thoroughly before placing the meat upon it. 
Rub bars of broiler ■with a bit of fat or suet. 
Cook quickly, turning often. 

As the pores of the meat are to be quickly seared, 
it is necessary to heat the broiler very thoroughly 
before placing the meat, chicken, or fish upon it. 
The flesh of the article to be broiled would stick to 
the hot bars so that it is always well to prepare 
them by rubbing with a bit of suet or fat. If the 
coal fire is used, it must be clea:r, bright, and hot. 
If the gas oven is the medium, place the broiler about 
two inches from the flame at the beginning of the 
broiling process, and turn the meat until i it is 
thoroughly seared on both sides. Then the broiler 
may be placed five inches from the flame to finish 
the cooking. 

Turn the meat on a hot platter on which you have 
placed a piece of butter and a Uttle salt and pepper. 
Baste with this butter or turn the meat in it once or 
twice, then serve hot. 

Broiled chicken or steak may be garnished with 
213 



CAROLINE KING'S COOK BOOK 

water cress or parsley, broiled fish with parsley 
or lemon slices. Fish or chicken should be split 
down the back, opened, and spread quite flat before 
broiUng. 

Planking may be regarded in the same class with 
broiling, as the articles which are most often cooked 
in this manner are usually broiled on one side first, 
then finished on the plank. In selecting a plank it is 
always best to choose one of oak, as they are heavy 
and durable. Then too the tang of the wood adds 
greatly to the delightful flavor of the fish, meat, 
chicken, or vegetable which is to be prepared on it. 

Planked Fish. Shad, whitefish, or any of the 
large fish may be prepared in this way. Clean the 
fish, split it down the back and spread it open, quite 
flat. Place it skin side down in a hot buttered drip- 
ping pan under the gas flame or in a very hot oven. 
Meantime, heat the plank very hot and rub it with 
a little fat or butter. When the fish has broiled till 
well seared, turn it skin side up on the hot plank. 
Sprinkle with salt and pepper and brush over with 
melted butter. If a large fish, cook thirty minutes 
in a hot oven. Then make a border of mashed 
potatoes, forced through the pastry tube, about the 
fish ; stufifed tomatoes or peppers may also be placed 
at intervals on the plank. Return the plank to the 
oven or place it under the flame of the broiUng oven 
until the potatoes are brown. Serve the fish on the 
plank. Chicken and beefsteak are planked in the 
same manner. 

214 




CoiiTtesy of "Good Housekeeping" 

Placin(j Sthak (jn Broiler 



^fCT 


l^'^ 






c^^ 


-,.-•-. ,, 


^ ^^3 


S-4 


M 




g 


j^^ 


m 


r# 


1 








j^jfvs. 


S 









Courtesy of "Good Housekeeping" 

Planked Steak with Potato Border 



ROASTING 

Planked Steak is a good dish. Purchase a sirloin 
steak and broil on a hot greased broiler on one side 
only. Then turn on to a hot buttered plank and 
return to the broiler or to a very hot oven and cook 
for seven minutes. Border with mashed potatoes 
beaten with the yolk of one egg, and place turnips 
cut hke cups and boiled till tender then filled with 
peas, about the potatoes. Stuffed onions or peppers 
may be served with this dish in place of the 
turnips. Return to the oven to brown. Serve on 
the plank. 

Toasting and Parching are forms of roasting also. 
Toasting resembles broiling, as the article to be pre- 
pared is placed under the gas flame or over the hot 
coals. Parching is done in the oven, and is a method 
often employed to dry bread, corn, or herbs. 

Bread to be toasted should be at least twenty-four 
hours old. Cut it in one fourth inch slices and 
remove the crusts very neatly. These thin crusts 
are very nice parched in a slow oven and served with 
tea or cocoa. Toast the bread slices over a clear hot 
fixe or under the gas flame until they slowly take on 
a deep golden color. Serve dry or spread with butter 
as desired. 

Cinnamon Toast. Toast the bread as described, 
taking care that it does not brown before it is dry, 
or it will not be wholesome. Spread with melted 
butter and sprinkle thickly with granulated sugar 
mixed with powdered cinnamon. Place in a hot 
oven for a moment before serving. 

215 



CAROLINE KING'S COOK BOOK 

Parched Bread for Garnishing. Cut the bi-ead in 
slices half an inch thick, then with a sharp fchife cut 
in cubes, diamonds, squares, or oblong piece^. Place 
on a tin plate in a very moderate oven and allow them 
to remain until a golden brown. 



216 



CHAPTER XVII 

BAKING 

Although modern housewives use the ovens of the 
coal or gas or kerosene ranges for both roasting and 
baking, and so regard these two processes as very 
similar, they were formerly entirely distinct and sep- 
arate. Roasting, as I have explained, previously 
was done before an open fire, but the baking was 
carried on in a huge oven built of bricks, in which a 
fire was built and kept burning for some hours ; then 
the oven was swept clean, and the bread, pies, cakes, 
and other foods baked in the heat which was still 
retained by the bricks or tiles. 

No doubt many of the dishes which were prepared 
in this way were very deUcious, but no one can deny 
that the present manner of baking is far more con- 
venient to the housewife. In all first-class ranges, 
whether constructed for the burning of wood, coal, 
gas, or kerosene, the oven is well ventilated and cal- 
culated to turn out perfectly baked products if the 
heat is properly regulated. 

If it were possible for every housewife to possess 
an oven thermometer, many of the failures which 
are due to guesswork in baking would be eUminated ; 
but even without such a contrivance, it is possible 

217 



CAROLINE KING'S COOK BOOK 

to attain perfect results in baking. The old-fash- 
ioned paper test to determine the temperature of the 
oven is a very good one, and is used with excellent 
results by many good cooks. In using this test, 
the oven is heated, and a piece of white paper placed 
on the lower shelf and the door closed. If the paper 
browns delicately and evenly in three minutes, the 
oven is what is termed a moderate^oven, and suitable 
for most cakes, corn breads, puddings, and meat 
dishes made from the coarser cuts. For fruit cakes, 
meringues, and those dishes which reqiiire long, 
slow baking the paper should not brown well until it 
has been in the oven for nearly four minutes. 

Baking-powder biscuits, bread, small cakes, and 
muffins demand a quicker oven than a moderate one, 
so the paper must become distinctly brown in two 
minutes. And for roasts, the paper must brown in 
one minute. 

If bread is placed in too hot an oven, it will sud- 
denly cease to rise and will not be as light as it should, 
while cake baked in too great heat will split. Too 
cool an oven will produce a loaf of bread that is 
overlight and very porous; and the cake will rise 
and run over the sides of the pan. 

In baking bread the oven should be very hot when 
the loaves are put in to bake, and should be cooled 
sUghtly as the baking proceeds, while cake, on the 
contrary, requires a cooler oven at first, with a 
gradual and increasing heat. The reason for this 
lies in the different methods by which the bread and 

218 



BAKING 

cake are leavened. Yeast-risen products must be 
placed in a heat great enough to check the growth of 
the yeast plant, while cakes which are made light 
by the use of baking powder or soda must be allowed 
to rise after having been placed in the heat. 

It is always advisable to place a cake in an oven 
rather too cool than too hot, allowing the heat to 
increase gradually as the leavening agent does its 
work. Never move a cake in the oven until it has 
become well set, for the cells which have been formed 
by the rising of the batter, not having become fixed, 
will break, and the batter fall if the pan is disturbed ; 
and as the carbon dioxide or leavening agent has 
exhausted itself and has no more power, the cake will 
be heavy and indigestible. 

Pastry should be very cold when placed in the 
oven, and the oven should be as hot as for bread. 
This will cause the pastry to become light and digest- 
ible. If placed in a moderate oven, the fat dissolves, 
mixes with the starch, and produces a tough mass 
very difficult of digestion. Pies made with one crust 
require careful baking, as the pastry must be quickly 
finished, while the filling usually is of such nature 
that it requires a slow oven. Therefore, the correct 
method for making lemon meringue, custard, pump- 
kin, or squash pies is to bake the shell of pastry first, 
cooking the filling on the top of the range, and then 
to pour it in the pastry shell, and brown the top of 
the pie dehcately in the oven. Such a method will 
produce a wholesome, deUcious pie. 

219 



CAROLINE KING'S COOK BOOK 

Lemon Meringue Pie. Make the pastry after 
foundation formula for flaky pastry, and cover the 
outside of a greased pie plate with it. Prick with a 
fork in various places, then place the inverted pie 
plate on a dripping pan and bake the crust in a hot 
oven. Cool, remove, and fill with this mixture: 
Mix one tablespoon of cornstarch with three fourths 
of a cup of sugar and one tablespoon of flour ; pour 
over them three fourths of a cup of boiUng water, 
stirring constantly. Cook over hot water for three 
minutes, then add a teaspoon of butter, three table- 
spoons of lemon juice, the grated rind of one lemon, 
and one eighth of a teaspoon of salt ; also two well- 
beaten egg yolks. Simmer till the egg has cooked, 
then pour into the pastry shell, cover with a lemon- 
flavored meringue, made as described on page 109, 
and brown in a very moderate oven. 

Custard Pie. Prepare the pastry shell as described 
for lemon meringue pie and fill with custard filhng, 
made as follows : Scald a cup and a half of milk, and 
beat two eggs to a light froth with three tablespoons 
of sugar, one eighth of a teaspoon of salt, and a table- 
spoon of cornstarch; pour the hot milk over the 
sugar and egg mixture and cook over hot water till 
the mixture thickens, then add a grating of nutmeg 
or mace or half a teaspoon of vanilla extract. Cool 
sHghtly, pour into the pastry shell, and place in a mod- 
erate oven to brown. 

Pumpkin or Squash Pie. Prepare the pastry shell, 
and make the filling as follows : Mix together one 

220 



BAKING 

and a half cups of steamed and strained squash or 
pumpkin, two thirds of a cup of brown sugar, two 
well-beaten eggs, a grating of lemon peel, a teaspoon 
of lemon jviice, teaspoon of cinnamon, one fourth of 
a teaspoon of ginger and mace, and a scant table- 
spoon of cornstarch. Scald two cups of milk and 
pour over the mixture. Stir over boiling water till 
well mixed, then pour into the shell, and bake till 
brown. 

Fruit is often cooked by baking and is always a 
wholesome, popular dish when so prepared. Rhu- 
barb, quinces, prunes, apples, pears, and other vari- 
eties lend themselves well to this method of cookery. 
A moderate oven is best for baking all fruits, as the 
richness of flavor is more readily brought out by 
such a method. 

Rhubarb should be cut in lengths, washed, but 
not peeled, unless very tough and stringy. Place it 
in a baking dish with a few bits of orange or lemon 
peel, cover it with granulated sugar, and add a very 
httle water. Place in a moderate oven and bake till 
tender. 

Baked Pears or Quinces. Core, wash, but do not 
peel, the fruit, and place in a covered dish, half 
filling the latter with cold water. Put the dish (a 
casserole is excellent for this purpose) in a mod- 
erate oven and bake till the fruit may be pierced 
with a fork. This will usually require an hour; 
then add sugar to taste and bake fifteen minutes 
longer. 

221 



CAROLINE KING'S COOK BOOK 

Baked Apples. Core large red apples and pare 
them one third of the way, place in a covered baking 
pan, and cover with a syrup made by boiling one cup 
of water with one of sugar for five minutes. Cover 
the pan and bake the apples till tender but not broken. 
Then remove the cover and sprinkle the apples with 
sugar. Place at the top of a very hot oven or under 
the gas broiler to glaze the sugar. Baste with 
the syrup several times. Serve cold, topped with 
whipped cream, or with plain cream. 

Baked Prunes. Wash a pound of prunes and soak 
for several hours in cold water. Place in a covered 
baking dish in the oven, in the water in which they 
were soaked. Bake till tender ; then add a small 
amount of sugar and continue baking ten minutes. 
For flavor, a little lemon or orange peel may be added 
to the prunes when put in the oven. 



222 



CHAPTER XVIII 

FRYING 

{Boiling in Deep Fat 
Sauteing 
Pan Broiling 

All foods that are prepared for the table by being 
cooked in fat are termed fried foods, although those 
which are cooked in only a small amount of fat are 
really sauted, and those which are cooked in a hot 
pan which has been merely coated with fat are 
pan broiled. Frying proper means immersing the 
food into deep, boiling fat, and allowing it to remain 
there until it is brown and well cooked throughout. 

Fried foods are not more injurious than those 
cooked by any other means if they are well fried. 
It is only when they are served floating in surplus 
grease, or dry and tasteless, showing that the fat 
was not of the correct degree of temperature, that 
they become harmful. 

Deep frying requires more skill than any other 
type of cookery. To know when the fat is at 
just the correct heat for cooking fish, croquettes, 
fritters, or whatever has been selected, takes good 
judgment and experience, for not all foods that are 
fried demand fat of the same temperature. Those 

223 



CAROLINE KING'S COOK BOOK 

foods which are made of mixtures which have been 
previously cooked, Uke croquettes, rissoles, and 
similar dishes, may be fried in fat that is much hotter 
than that in which raw products hke doughnuts, 
meats, and raw vegetables are cooked, because the 
latter must be given an opportunity to cook thor- 
oughly to the very center, and if the fat is too hot 
they will burn before this is accomplished. 

To fry any article of food satisfactorily, the fol- 
lowing principles must be observed : 

Use a heavy kettle. 

Fill it at least two thirds full of fat. 

Test fat before beginning to fry article. 

Use hotter fat for previously cooked than for raw foods. 

Always drain fried articles on paper before serving. 

Never fry too many articles at once. 

A heavy iron kettle, or one which is very secure 
and solid, is the only utensil that should be selected 
for frsdng, as great harm might occur should the 
kettle tip and spill the hot fat on the fire. Besides, 
a heavy kettle will keep the fat at a more even tem- 
perature than a light one, which is always an ad- 
vantage in frying. 

To fry satisfactorily there must be sufficient fat 
in the kettle to float the articles to be fried. This 
may be either lard, vegetable oil, clarified drippings, 
or a blending of any or all of the three. Lard is, 
perhaps, the most economical of all the frying 
mediums, as it not only produces better results, 
but may be clarified again and again, while many 
of the others are usable but once. 

224 



FRYING 

When deep frying is used as a method of food 
preparation frequently, it is well to use the fat first 
for doughnuts, fritters, or croquettes; later, after 
clarifying, it may be used for potatoes or other 
vegetables, and finally for fish. Never fry fish first 
and the more dehcate articles later in the same fat. 

To test the fat for deep frying, place it in the 
kettle over "the fire and watch it closely. If lard is 
used, a bluish smoke will be noticed rising from it 
as it heats. When this occurs, the fat is usually 
ready for use. Try it by dropping in a cube of soft 
bread. If the bread browns deUcately, but un- 
mistakably, in forty seconds, it is hot enough for 
uncooked foods, such as crullers, chops, or potatoes. 
If croquettes or other cooked mixtures are to be 
fried, the fat must brown in twenty seconds. Never 
attempt to fry too many articles at once, for no 
matter how hot the fat may be at the beginning of 
the operation, it will become cool as the cold foods 
are dropped into it, and unless great care is taken 
the grease will soak into them. If the fat is just 
right, the surface of the article will become crisp 
almost as soon as it is dropped into the fat. This 
will harden the outer surface so that the inside may 
become thoroughly cooked without being penetrated 
by the fat. 

A frying basket is a great convenience. The 
articles to be fried are placed in it, and the basket 
is submerged in the boiUng fat; when they are 
brown, the basket is lifted from the fat with all of 

225 



CAROLINE KING'S COOK BOOK 

its contents intact. When a fork is used in lifting 
foods from the fat, it is difficult not to break them. 

If the fat sputters while it is heating, it denotes 
the presence of water, and it will be impossible to 
fry any article successfully while this condition 
exists, for the fat will not become any hotter than 
boiUng water, which is 212° F., while for successful 
frying it must be at least 350° F. The only thing to 
do in such cases is to wait until the water in the 
fat has evaporated. As soon as this occurs, the 
temperature of the fat will increase to the required 
degree. 

After the frying is completed, the fat may be clari- 
fied and made ready for use again. Place the fry- 
ing pan on the back of the range and drop a few sUces 
of raw potato in it. Let them remain in the fat 
until they have gradually become a deep brown. 
Then strain the fat into a jar through a piece of 
cheesecloth. It may be used again and again, if 
this method is followed after each frjdng. 

Croquettes, fish, oysters, and other foods are 
usually dipped in well-beaten egg and then in bread 
or cracker crumbs before frying. The egg is beaten 
with a tablespoon of water and then strained ; then 
the croquette, chop, or other food is dipped into it 
and well covered with the egg on all sides. After 
this operation, lay the articles to be fried on a plate 
of fine bread crumbs which have been mixed with a 
little pepper and salt. Turn them over in the 
crumbs so that every part is well covered, then set 

226 



FRYING 

aside until all are dipped. Place the articles to be 
fried in the frying basket and dip them into the deep, 
hot fat. As soon as they are brown, they will be 
ready to take from the fat. Lift carefully on to 
soft paper and allow them to drain for a few mo- 
ments before serving. Articles which have been 
egged and crumbed may be set aside for an hour or 
longer before frying without injury. 

Fried Oysters. Clean and dry large oysters be- 
tween towels, season them very lightly with salt 
and pepper, and dip in fine bread crumbs ; then dip 
into well-beaten and strained egg, and again into 
fine crumbs. Fry in deep fat as described. Drain 
on paper and serve with any preferred sauce. All 
small fish, crabs, chops, and cutlets are fried in the 
same manner. 

Chicken Croquettes. Make the thick white sauce 
according to foundation formula on page 49 ; to one 
cup of sauce add a cup and a half of finely chopped 
cold chicken, half a teaspoon of salt, one fourth 
teaspoon of pepper and a dash of mace, a few drops 
of onion juice, and a few drops of lemon juice. Spread 
on a platter to cool. Then make into desired shape, 
dip in egg and fine bread crumbs, and fry as directed. 
All meat mixtures and croquettes of other meat than 
chicken are made in the same way. A few chopped 
mushrooms may be added to the chicken mixture 
if desired. 

Rice Croquettes. Wash half a cup of rice and 
cover with half a cup of boiling water, then cover 

227 



CAROLINE KING'S COOK BOOK 

and cook over hot water until the rice has absorbed 
all the water. Now add a cup of scalded milk, stir 
Ughtly with a fork, and steam until the rice is very 
soft. Remove from the fire and add two table- 
spoons of powdered sugar, the grated rind of half a 
lemon, two well-beaten egg yolks, and a tablespoon 
of butter. Spread on a platter to cool. Shape in 
balls, roll in crumbs, then in well-beaten egg, and 
again in crumbs. Fry as directed. 

French Fried Potatoes. Wash and pare small 
potatoes and cut them in eighths lengthwise. Soak 
for an hour in cold water, then dry between towels, 
and fry in deep boihng fat. Drain on paper and 
sprinkle with salt. 

Sauteing, which is a type of frying, is a method 
used in cooking many articles which are usually 
merely browned in shallow fat. It is really a less 
wholesome way of preparing food than deep frying, 
as it is almost impossible to cook foods in this way 
without allowing the grease to penetrate them. 
Nevertheless, sauteing is a popular form of cookery 
and is useful in warming up left-over foods, or for 
cooking small quantities. The article to be cooked 
is placed in the frjdng pan with a small amount of 
butter or shortening and tossed or stirred frequently 
until it is brown. It is then seasoned and served. 

Lyonnaise Potatoes. Left-over cold boiled pota- 
toes are used in making this very popular and ap- 
petizing dish. Shce two small onions after paring 
them and place in a frying pan with a tablespoon of 

228 



FRYING 

butter or other fat. Cut five or six cold boiled 
potatoes in thin sUces and add to the onion, stir 
them frequently till a pale brown, then season and 
sprinkle with finely chopped parsley and a few drops 
of lemon juice. 

Mushrooms Sauted with Bacon. Cook thin sUces 
of bacon till crisp and brown, then remove the shces 
and keep them hot. Peel and slice large mushrooms 
and saut^ in the bacon fat till tender. This will re- 
quire about seven minutes. Drain on paper, sprinkle 
with lemon juice, and serve with the bacon. 

Sauted Apples with Salt Pork. Cook thin slices 
of salt pork till crisp and brown. Core and cut 
in quarter-inch slices tart, nicely flavored apples. 
Drop them in the pork fat and saut6 till brown. 
Serve on a hot platter with the pork as a 
garnish. 

Pan Broiling, which is the third division of frying, 
is cooking with just enough fat to prevent the meat 
or other articles under preparation from sticking to 
the pan. 

Pan-broiled Lamb Chops. Heat a frying pan 
very hot, then rub it over very lightly with a piece 
of pork or other fat, place the chops in it, and allow 
them to sear nicely on one side. Then turn and sear 
them on the other side. Now reduce the heat 
sUghtly and finish cooking the meat. As fat collects 
in the pan, remove it, or the meat will be fried in- 
stead of pan broiled. Season when the cooking is 
finished. 

229 



CAROLINE KING'S COOK BOOK 

Deviled Pork Chops with Mashed Potatoes. Mix 
together two tablespoons of melted butter, one 
tablespoon of chili sauce, one of Worcestershire 
sauce, tablespoon of walnut catsup or lemon juice, 
teaspoon of mixed mustard, and a few grains of 
cayenne. Pan broil lean pork chops sUghtly on 
both sides, then gash them sUghtly on each side, and 
place in a dripping pan or casserole. Cover with 
the sauce and bake in a hot oven till finished. Mash 
potatoes as usual and make a pointed mound of 
them. Arrange the chops in a pyramid about the 
potatoes and place turnip or carrot cups filled with 
creamed mushrooms or peas between the chops. 
Stick a paper rosette in each turnip. 
• English Mutton Chops with Currant Mint Sauce. 
Have the butcher bone and roll rib mutton chops 
with several slices of bacon inside. Then cut the 
roll into slices about an inch and a half deep, so that 
each sUce looks hke a miniature roast beef. Pan 
broil the chops for ten minutes, turning often. Then 
place them in a dripping pan and finish cooking 
in the oven. When done, place on a hot platter 
and garnish with parsley. Over each chop spread 
a sauce made as follows: Beat to a paste half a 
cup of currant jelly and add to it a tablespoon of 
finely chopped mint leaves and a very little grated 
orange rind. Serve the rest of the sauce in a sauce 
boat. 



230 



Conserving Fruits 
and Vegetables 



CHAPTER XIX 

THE CONSERVATION OF FRUITS AND VEGETABLES 

Preserving Fruits 

Jams and Marmalades : Tart and Juicy PVuit 

Jellies : Only Those Fruits Rich, in Pectin 

{Cherries, Plums, 
Grapes, Peaches, 
Pears, Crab Apples 
, Conserves : Mixed Fruits 

Perfect sterilization is the secret of success in 
conserving fruits and vegetables of all kinds. One 
may select whatever method one pleases, — the 
old-fashioned open-kettle system or the newer 
cold-pack method, advocated by the government, 
— but the principles which underiie these or any 
other method of canning or preserving are absolute 
cleanhness, freedom from germs or mold spores of 
all sorts, sterihty of the kind which is observed in 
the stirgical wards of the hospitals. When the 
housewife understands this clearly and reaUzes 
that only by practicing the utmost care to observe 
this cleanhness can she be sure of success in her 
work, then canning and preserving will become an 
easy matter to her. And to obtain this state of im- 
munity from germs, bacteria, and floating mold 

231 



CAROLINE KING'S COOK BOOK 

spores with which the air is filled, it is necessary 
to thoroughly scald and boil all of the jars, tops, 
and utensils which are to be used in the work, and 
then to guard them carefully from a further attack 
by the germ enemy, which is present in the dust, 
the air, and on all unsterilized vessels. When these 
precautions are taken, success in canning is almost 
assured. 

There are certain principles which should be 
regarded in all work of this kind ; they are : 

Sound, not overripe fruit and vegetables ; 

Plenty of boiling water ; 

Adequate heat ; 

Perfect sterilization of jars and utensils ; 

Reliable jars and rubbers ; 

Secure sealing. 

Canning is the most difficult method of fruit 
conservation, but it is the method most often used 
and the least expensive. It is the only method, 
except drying, for keeping vegetables also, and for 
that reason, if for no other, it should be thoroughly 
comprehended. 

The most reliable and simple method of canning 
is the cold-pack method. It is used by the large 
canning factories and is also recommended by the 
United States Government. This method consists 
of four processes : 

Scalding or blanching, 
Cold dipping, 
Packing in jars, 
Sterilizing. 

, 232 



FRUIT AND VEGETABLE CONSERVATION 

Scalding consists in dipping the vegetables or 
fruit in boiling water, which makes peeling them an 
easy matter. This is used for tomatoes, peaches, 
plums, apricots, and similar products. 

Blanching is merely allowing the products to 
remain for a longer period in the scalding water, 
or even boiling them for a few moments, which 
removes any acid or acrid taste and makes them 
more easily managed in the later processes. 

Cold Dipping, after the articles have been blanched 
and drained, is plunging them into cold water. 
This plumps them and makes them more attractive 
in appearance and also more firm after their bath 
in the boiUng water. It also preserves their color 
and flavor. 

Sterilizing is the boiling or steaming of the packed 
jars both before and after sealing. v 

All of the above processes are used in canning 
fruits and vegetables. In the former the fruits, if 
large, are cooked for a short time in a thin syrup 
before being placed in the jars. 

Preliminaey Preparations 

Before beginning the canning, be sure that every- 
thing necessary to the work is at hand. Jars, 
rubber tops, a large-mouthed funnel, dipper, large 
spoons, plenty of towels, at least two saucepans 
of ample size, a jar lifter, and a canner or a wash 
boiler fitted with a rack on which to place the 

233 



CAROLINE KING'S COOK BOOK 

jars to be sterilized. Several small sharp knives 
are also necessary. Test the jars and see that the 
covers fit them perfectly, then wash both jars and 
tops in warm water, to which has been added a 
teaspoon of baking soda. After washing, place 
them in a kettle of cold water, and bring slowly 
to the boiling point, then boil for three or four 
minutes. Leave the jars in the boiUng water until 
you are ready to fill them. When taking them 
from the water be very careful not to touch the 
inside, as they would then require to be re-sterilized. 
Observe the same care in removing the covers from 
the water, place them on a sterilized plate, and do 
not touch except on the outer surface. Twirl the 
rubbers in the boiling water before adjusting them 
on the jars. 

The following vegetables require blanching : string 
beans, asparagus, spinach, beet tops, dandeUons, 
green peppers, cauliflower, Brussels sprouts. 

Prepare the vegetables as for the table, then place 
them in rapidly boiUng water to which salt has been 
added in the proportion of one tablespoon to a 
gallon of water. This preserves the color of the 
vegetables and also their flavor. Boil rapidly for 
five minutes. Then cold dip them, drain well, and 
place in the sterihzed jars. Now fill the jars with 
boiUng water, add half a teaspoon of salt to each 
jar, place the covers on, and partially tighten them. 
Stand the jars on a rack in a wash boiler, or in a 
canner and fill to within one inch of the tops with 

234 



FRUIT AND VEGETABLE CONSERVATION 

water. Place the cover on the boiler or canner 
and bring rapidly to the boiUng point. Boil for 
two hours and a half. 

At the end of this time, lift the jars carefully 
from the water, tighten the covers securely and re- 
turn the jars to the boiler, this time on their sides 
and submerged in the boiling water. Cover again 
and boil for ten minutes. The jars may be allowed 
to cool in the water if the canner is not required 
immediately, or they may be hfted from the water, 
the covers again tightened, and the jars placed 
where no draft can reach them to cause them to 
crack. 

DeUcate vegetables, such as peas, hma beans, 
and corn, require Ught blanching, and cold dipping. 
They should be placed in the sterilized jars, the 
latter filled to overflowing with boiling water, half 
a teaspoon of salt added to each jar, the rubbers 
and covers adjusted hghtly, and the jars placed 
in the canner or boiler, hot water poured around 
them to within an inch of the tops and the 
sterilization continued for two hours. Then the 
covers must be fastened securely and the jars 
submerged in boiling water and steriUzed for ten 
minutes. 

When corn is canned, it is cut from the ears and 
placed in the jars with the salt and boiling water, 
then sterilized for three hom:s. 

Vegetables which have a distinct cellulose struc- 
ture, like beets, turnips, parsnips, or carrots, are 

235 



CAROLINE KING'S COOK BOOK 

canned in the following manner : select young tender 
vegetables, wash them, — and in the case of all ex- 
cept beets pare or scrape them, — then cover with 
boiling water and boil for half an hour. Drain and 
cold dip them. Beets should be skinned after 
removing from the cold dip. If the vegetables 
are small and tender, they may be packed whole 
in the jars. Adjust the rubbers and fill the jars 
with boiling water. Place the tops on Ughtly and 
stand the jars in the boiler. Surround with water 
to within an inch or two from the top. Cover and 
boil for an hour. Then fasten the tops securely 
without taking them from the jars. Submerge 
the jar^ in boiling water and boil for twenty 
minutes. 

Feuit Canning 

Fruits are canned in much the same manner as 
vegetables. Small fruits Uke strawberries, rasp- 
berries, blackberries, etc., require no scalding or 
blanching, but are packed directly into the jars. 
Then a thin s3Tnip is poured over them and they 
are finished Uke the vegetables. Half an hour 
should be allowed for the first boihng, then ten 
minutes after the jars are securely sealed and sub- 
merged in the boihng water. 

Strawberries require a heavier syrup than the 
other small fruits, as they are more acid. Allow a 
pound of sugar and half a pint of water to a quart 
of fruit. Boil the sugar and water together for 

236 



FRUIT AND VEGETABLE CONSERVATION 

seven minutes, then cool it slightly, and pour over 
the fruit, packed as closely as possible in the jars. 

For Raspberries and other berries, half a pound 
of sugar with half a pint of water, boiled for seven 
minutes, will make a syrup that is suflaciently 
heavy. 

Peaches, Plums, Pears, and other large fruits are 
treated in a somewhat different manner. Peaches 
and plums are scalded, cold dipped, and peeled, 
then halved or left whole as desired. Pears and 
quinces are peeled and halved. The fruits are then 
blanched in a thin s3Tup for ten minutes, Ufted 
carefully from the S3Tup into the sterilized jars, 
the syrup is poured over them, the rubbers and 
tops adjusted, and the jars submerged in hot water 
and boiled for thirty-five minutes. Be sure that 
the syrup fills the jars to the very top before ad- 
justing the covers. In canning peaches and plums 
one may improve the flavor by adding a few of the 
kernels from the pits to the syrup. 



237 



CHAPTER XX 

PRESERVING AND JAM MAKING 

Preserving is a less complex process than canning, 
although a more expensive one, as a greater amount 
of sugar is demanded, but the sugar is useful as it 
aids in keeping the fruit. 

Sugar is used in canning also, but it is a strange 
fact that used in small quantities this product will 
induce fermentation unless great care is taken to 
make everything perfectly sterile, although when it 
is used in the form of a heavy syrup it possesses 
what the chemists term bactericidal properties, 
which mold spores and germs will avoid. There- 
fore, while it is always well to observe the same re- 
gard for chemical cleanUness in every form of fruit 
conservation, it is not necessary to go through the 
same processes of blanching and sterilizing in the 
jars as in canning. 

Science has taught us that the old-time idea of a 
pound of sugar to a pound of fruit is not necessary. 
Three fourths of a pound will make as highly con- 
centrated a syrup as is necessary for keeping most 
fruits. A few very acid varieties may require the 
larger amount, or if an unusually heavy syrup is 
desired the pound for pound method may be used. 

238 



PRESERVING AND JAM MAKING 

In preserving all fruits the following principles 
should be rigidly observed : 

Select only sound ripe fruit. 
Sterilize jaxs and utensils. 
Use the best white sugar. 
Preserve small amounts at a time. 
Observe accuracy. 

When preserving small fruits, wash, measure, and 
pick them over carefully, laying the bruised or im- 
perfect ones aside for making the syrup. Crush the 
latter and drain through a jelly bag. Add the 
juice to the sugar, or if the berries are all perfect, 
half their quantity of water should be added to the 
syrup. Bring rapidly to the boiling point and 
skim. Cook for five minutes, then add the fruit, a 
small quantity at a time, to the syrup, and cook 
gently till it can be pierced with a fork. By this 
time the fruit will be almost transparent and fully 
permeated with the syrup. Lift carefully, piece by 
piece, into the jars, then add more fruit to the 
syrup, and cook in the same manner. When all the 
fruit has been cooked, drain the juice that has 
gathered in the jars, and return it to the kettle. 
Boil the juice once more for five minutes, then pour 
it over the berries and stand aside to cool. Do not 
cover or seal till quite cold, as the juice will be less 
thick if the jars are sealed while hot. Protect 
from the air and dust with a pane of glass placed 
on supports which prevent it from quite touching 
the jars. 

239 



CAROLINE KING'S COOK BOOK 

Large fruits are pared, halved, sliced, or left whole 
as preferred, and are cooked in a syrup made of three 
fourths their quantity of sugar boiled to a thick 
syrup with half its quantity of water. Cook only 
a small quantity of fruit at a time in the syrup and 
allow each piece to become almost clear before re- 
moving it to the jar. Drain the syrup from the 
jars when all the fruit is cooked, add it to that in 
the kettle, and boil ten minutes, then pour over 
the fruit. Finish as directed in preserving small 
fruits. I 

Jams and Makmalades 

Less perfect fruits are required for the making 
of jams and marmalades than in canning or pre- 
serving. And while one should be careful to exclude 
all decayed specimens, those which are a Uttle over- 
ripe or bruised need not be discarded in this form 
of conservation. 

In jam making the fruits are mashed so that no 
distinct pieces are present in the finished product ; 
in marmalades the fruits are cut into very minute 
pieces, which are kept separate and distinct by 
adding the sugar early in the cooking. 

The following principles govern all jam making : 

Place fruit over the fire without sugar. 

Mash and stir frequently. 

Add sugar when fruit is cooked to a pulp. 

Cook tiU thick. 

Seal when cold. 

240 



PRESERVING AND JAM MAKING 

Berries, cherries, currants, and other small fruits 
should be washed well and picked over carefully. 
Measure them and allow three fourths their quantity 
of sugar. Place the fruit over the fire in porcelain- 
lined kettles, a^nd cook till soft. Mash well until 
no distinct pieces -are noticeable. Then add the 
sugar and cook very slowly tiU thick. Stir frequently 
to prevent burning. Pour into sterilized glasses 
and seal when cold. 

In making marmalades, these principles should be 
observed : 

Cut fruit in small pieces. 
Cook -sidth sugar till thick. 
Boil very gently. 
Seal when cold. 

Wash, measure, and pick over the fruits, and if 
peaches or other large varieties are used, peel them ; 
cherries should be pitted. Cut in very small pieces 
and place over the fire without the sugar for a few 
moments until heated through, then add the sugar 
and cook very gently till thick, stirring frequently. 
Pour into steriUzed glasses and seal when cold. 

Combinations of fruits make delightful jams and 
marmalades. Currants and raspberries ; white grapes 
and peaches ; cherries and pineapple ; rhubarb and 
strawberries all are delicious combinations. In 
making jam of currants and raspberries, it is well to 
cook the currants for a few moments first, then to 
extract the juice, add it to the raspberries and cook 
as in other jams. Pit cherries and remove the seeds 
from the white grapes in making the marmalades. 

241 



CAROLINE KING'S COOK BOOK 

Jellies 

In selecting fniit for jelly making, always bear in 
mind that that which is underripe is -preferable to 
the fully or overripe. The jelly-making quaUty in 
fruit is a property which is known as pectin ; this is 
only present when the fruit is either just ripe or 
merely turning; when the friiit becomes a little 
overripe the pectin has disappeared from it, and 
it will be impossible to make a satisfactory jelly. 
And not all fruits contain this pectin at any stage. 
Currants, grapes, cranberries, crab apples, quinces, 
and plums are rich in pectin and wiU make perfect 
jelly if used before overripe. Blackberries also con- 
tain a sufficient quantity of pectin for jelly making 
while shghtly underripe. Other fruits must be 
combined with one of these varieties if it is desired 
to make jelly from them. By adhering to these 
principles, success in jelly making will be assured: 

^ Sterilize all utensils. 

Select fruit which is not overripe. 
Cook without sugar. 
Drain through flannel bag. 
Boil again without sugar. 
Add sugar. 
Seal when cold. 

Jelly molds quickly and readily if glasses and 
utensils used in its making are not rendered per- 
fectly sterile; therefore, it is well before beginning 
the jelly making to place all utensils, glasses, etc., 
into cold water and bring them quickly to the boil- 

242 



PRESERVING AND JAM MAKING 

ing point. Look the fruit over well, but do not 
wash it unless dusty. If necessary to wash it, drain 
well before cooking, as the presence of water pre- 
vents perfect results. 

Put the fruit over the fire and bring quickly to 
the boihng point. Cook for a few momfents, then 
turn into the jelly bag. Allow all of the juice to 
drip through but do not squeeze the bag. Reserve 
the pulp for another purpose, which I will describe 
shortly. Measure the juice and allow an equal 
amount of sugar. Put the juice into a clean pre- 
serving kettle and place over the fire, bring quickly 
to the boUing point, and boil rapidly for ten min- 
utes. Then add the sugar and stir until it has dis- 
solved. Boil quickly for ten minutes, then try a 
little of the syrup on a saucer. If it begins to con- 
geal about the edges, the jelly is finished. Four into 
hot glasses and place in the sunshine to cool. 

Some fruits require longer boiling than others. 
I have even found it necessary to cook the juice 
with the sugar for twenty minutes, and again in 
making currant jelly, scarcely any boiling was 
necessary, so the only safe way to determine when 
the correct point has been reached is to try the 
syrup on a cold plate or saucer. 

In making currant, blackberry, and grape jelly, 
it is an excellent plan to heat the sugar before 
adding it to the juice. This method facilitates the 
process. 

Fruits in which pectin is lacking must be combined 

243 



CAROLINE KING'S COOK BOOK 

with those rich in this j elly-making quality. Peaches, 
pears, and other large fruits may be used with apples 
or crab apples. Cherries, raspberries, and small 
fruits of any variety may be combined with currants. 

Fruit Butter 

The pulp remaining in the jelly bag after the 
juice has dripped through may be used in making 
a second grade of jelly or in making a spiced butter 
to eat with cold meats or with bread. 

If it is desired to use it for jelly, squeeze the bag 
until all the pulp is dry. Then measure the juice 
and allow an equal amount of sugar, and proceed 
as in making the first grade of jelly. 

In making the spiced butter, turn the pulp into 
a sieve and press it through with a wooden spoon 
or potato masher. To each pint of pulp add one 
fourth a cup of good cider vinegar, three fom-ths of 
a pint of granulated or soft white sugar, a teaspoon 
of ground cinnamon, and half a teaspoon of ground 
cloves. Cook gently till thick. Then pour into 
glasses and seaL as usual. 

Spiced Fruits 

Spiced or sweet pickled fruits are very much 
liked for serving with cold meats. They are easily 
made and keep very well. Peaches, pears, plums, 
crab apples, cherries, and grapes are usually selected 
for this method of conservation, though other fruits 
may be used if desired. Good cider vinegar, the 

244 



PRESERVING AND JAM MAKING 

best quality of spices, and perfect fruits should be 
selected for spicing. Brown sugar is sometimes 
preferred to white for this purpose. 

For any variety of sweet pickled fruit, prepare a 
syrup by boiling together two pounds of sugar, a 
pint of vinegar, with an ounce of stick cinnamon 
and half an ounce of cloves placed in a small bag 
that may be removed when the fruit has been 
cooked. This quantity of syrup will answer for 
half a peck of peaches or a corresponding quantity 
of other fruit. If peaches are to be used, rub them 
with a cloth to remove fuzz, but do not pare them ; 
if other large fruit is used, wipe with a cloth and 
halve or leave whole ; drop them into the syrup and 
cook for five minutes, then remove from the fire 
and allow to stand for twenty-four hours. Then 
drain the syrup from the fruit and bring it again to 
the boiling point, return the peaches to it, and cook 
till tender. Place in stone jars, or in the usual quart 
jars, and seal when cold. 

Small fruits may be finished at the first cooking. 
The intermittent process prevents the large fruits 
from breaking and becoming too soft. 

Conserves 

f 

Conserves are made from combinations of fruit 
cooked with sugar to a rich, thick mass, to which 
chopped nuts are sometimes added. These con- 
serves are served with bread and butter, crackers, 

245 



CAROLINE KING'S COOK BOOK 

meats, or simply as an accompaniment to luncheon 
or supper. They make delicious sweet sandwiches. 

French Conserve is made of equal parts of straw- 
berries, rhubarb, and pineapple. Slice the pine- 
apple and pare the slices, cut the fruit in small dice, 
rejecting the hard core. Cut an equal quantity of 
tender rhubarb, without peeling, into dice of the 
same size and place over the fire without water to 
cook very gently. When quite soft, add the straw- 
berries and cook till the latter are tender, then 
mash all the fruit well and add three fourths their 
quantity of sugar. Boil for half an hour very 
gently and add two ounces of almonds, blanched 
and shredded or chopped. Cook the conserve until 
very thick. Then pour into glasses. Seal when 
cold. 

Pineapple Conserve. Peel and grate coarsely or 
run through the meat chopper three ripe pineapples 
and add to them the grated rind and pulp of two 
lemons and three oranges, rejecting the seeds. 
Cook together for half an hour, then add an equal 
quantity of sugar and boil gently tUl thick. Pour 
into glasses and seal when cold. 

Tutti Frutti Conserve. Pare twenty-four ripe 
peaches, ten pears, fifteen blue plums, and cut the 
fruit in quarters. Add two poimds of white grapes, 
halved and freed from their seeds. Cook all together 
with an equal quantity of sugar xmtil the syrup is 
thick and heavy, then pour into sterilized jars, and 
seal when cool. 

246 



PRESERVING AND JAM MAKING 

Peach Conserve. Scald and pare four pounds of 
ripe peaches and cut in small pieces. Break a few 
of the peach pits and blanch the kernels, add these 
to the fruit, also a medium-sized pineapple, pared 
and chopped coarsely, one orange and one lemon 
grated and freed from the seeds. Mix the fruits 
and cook half an hour, then add one fourth of a 
pound of blanched and chopped almonds, and a 
poimd of sultana raisins, also chopped. Measure 
the mixture and add three fourths the quantity of 
sugar. Simmer till thick and rich. 



247 



CHAPTER XXI 



METHODS OF PREPARING FOOD MATERIALS 



Methods of Preparing 
Food Materials 



' Measuring 

Stirring 

Mixing 



Kneading 

Folding and Cutting 



Rolling 
Molding 
, Egg and Crumbing 



No matter how fine or how costly the ingredients 
which compose it, no dish will be a success which 
is not properly put together. Unless the cook 
understands the meaning of the various terms used 
in cookery, she will not be able to combine her 
materials in a way that will produce satisfactory 
results. 

The first essential to uniform good cookery is the 
knowledge of the proper methods of measurements. 
Old-fashioned housewives often accomplished won- 
derful results by guessing at quantities, but this was 
only after years of experience had enabled them to 
judge by the eye and to calculate approximately 
near the right amount. No one can say, however, 
just how many failures attended them while gaining 
this abihty, and the present-day housewife will do 

248 



METHODS OF PREPARING FOOD MATERIALS 

well to be guided by her recipes and measuring 
spoons and cups. These at least will insure uniform 
results, providing all other things are equal. 

Even the scale which housewives of a generation 
ago considered an absolute necessity has given way 
to the cup and spoon method of measuring, and 
almost all recipes now prepared for American house- 
wives are given in these measurements. A meas- 
uring cup of standard size holds exactly half a pint 
Uquid measure, or half a pound of sugar or butter, 
or one fourth of a pound of flour. A standard table- 
spoon will hold half an ounce of sugar or butter ; a 
standard teaspoon, sixty drops of liquid. 

All measurements in this as well as in most other 
books on cookery are level measurements unless 
otherwise stated. Flour is always sifted before it is 
measured, and the cup is filled with a spoon, never 
dipped into the flour. Measuring spoons may be ob- 
tained in sets containing a tablespoon, half table- 
spoon, teaspoon, and half and quarter teaspoon. 
These are fastened together with a ring and are very 
convenient and practical. Measuring cups are 
marked to indicate halves, fourths, and thirds. Every 
kitchen should contain two of these cups, one for 
measuring dry ingredients, the other for Uquids. 
This will save much time when one is baking or 
preparing a number of compUcated dishes. 

The following table of measurements will prove 
of help when a recipe which calls for weights instead 
of measurements is used : 

249 



CAROLINE KING'S COOK BOOK 

4 cups of flour equal 1 pound. 

2 cups of butter packed solid equal 1 pound. 

5 cup of butter equals i pound. 

2 cups of granulated sugar equal 1 pound. 

2i cups of powdered sugar equal 1 pound. 

8 eggs in shells equal 1 pound. 

10 eggs after taken from shells equal 1 pound. 

1 cup of shelled nut meats packed solid equals i pound. 

1 pint of liquid equals 1 pound. 

2 tablespoons of butter equal 1 ounce. 
4 tablespoons of butter equal | cup. 

2 tablespoons granulated sugar equal 1 ounce. 
1 tablespoon of liquid equals J ounce. 



Mixing 

After the materials have been selected and properly 
measured, the next step toward success in cookery 
is to combine them correctly. Mixing is a general 
term, which may mean stirring, beating, kneading, 
or folding and cutting, in accordance with the dish 
which is under preparation and the quality and 
texture of the materials which are to be used. 

Stirring is the method in most general use. It 
consists in moving the ingredients round and round 
in a bowl or saucepan, using for the purpose a spoon, 
knife, spatula, or fork. Liquids which are in the 
process of cooking are stirred ; thin batters are put 
together by this method; preserves, jams, cereals, 
sauces, and articles of similar nature are mixed by 
stirring. 

Beating is the method by which eggs are made 
light, cakes mixed, gelatine desserts whipped, cream 
frothed, and various other products made ready 

250 



METHODS OF PREPARING FOOD MATERIALS 

for adding to the dish which is under preparation. 
Beating is accompUshed by means of a fork, wooden 
spoon, or an egg beater. If a fork or wooden spoon 
is used, it is passed from the bottom to the top of 
the mixture rapidly, then down again, and so on, 
turning the ingredients over and over vmtil they are 
thoroughly mixed and a great deal of air has been 
forced into them. With an egg beater, if of the 
rotary kind, the wheels turn round and round, beat- 
ing the mixture, combining it with the air, and mak- 
ing it light. 

Folding and Cutting is the term usually appUed 
to the manner in which eggs are added to cake batter 
or other light mixtures. Cream, when it is beaten 
stiff, is folded into the jelly or other dessert of which 
it is to form a part ; egg whites are folded into a cake 
batter in this way; the eggs are beaten stiff and 
placed on the batter, the latter is cut with a spoon 
or knife to the bottom of the bowl, directly through 
the center. One half the mixture is turned hghtly 
over the egg whites, then the batter is again cut 
through the center, and one haK of it thrown over 
the other. This process is repeated until the mix- 
tiu-es are blended. 

Kneading is appUed to the manner in which doughs 
are made ready for baking. After the ingredients 
have all been placed in the mixing bowl and thor- 
oughly blended either by beating or stirring, the 
mixtm-e is turned out on the floured molding board 
with a spatula or broad-bladed knife. Then the 

251 



CAROLINE KING'S COOK BOOK 

fingers are dipped in flour, and the dough is brought 
from the back of the board over that which is on 
the front. With the ball of the hand the dough is 
pressed downward and at the same time moved back- 
ward. Then the fingers are again used to bring 
the back of the dough over the front portion and 
again the ball of the hand presses it down. In this 
way a new portion of the dough is continually 
brought uppermost to meet the hand. This process 
is continued until the dough feels smooth and elastic. 
The dough should be turned half way round oc- 
casionally and dredged with a Uttle fioiu- if it becomes 
sticky and hard to manage. After a little experi- 
ence it will seem an easy matter to knead a large 
quantity of dough. It should be remembered that 
when the dough has been kneaded sufficiently it 
will be smooth, fine-grained, and filled with minute 
air bubbles. Baking powder or soda-raised doughs 
should be kneaded very Ughtly and deftly, and the 
hand should just touch them. Heavy-handedness 
is not for them, though yeast-raised dough may be 
worked with more force. 

Rolling 

RolUng is a process which is separate and distinct 
from any other. It is used in making pies, cookies, 
biscuits, and various small cakes and tarts. In 
roUing pastry one should work quickly and deftly. 
The rolling pin should be moved in but one direction 
if possible, and should scarcely touch the paste. 

252 



METHODS OF PREPARING FOOD MATERIALS 

Cookies, biscuits, and similar articles may be treated 
with less deference, but all rolling of doughs should 
be quickly and lightly accomplished. 

Molding 

Jellies, puddings, and various other dishes are 
frequently served very attractively by being placed 
in a mold, chilled, and then turned out on a platter. 
To mold successfully these or similar articles, the 
mold must be of heavy tin, very smooth on the in- 
side, and allowed to soak in cold water for a short 
time before it is used. For very elaborate dishes, 
soak the mold in ice water at least half an hour be- 
fore placing the mixture in it. Be careful that it 
stands perfectly level during the chilhng process, 
and when ready to unmold, run a sharp knife all 
around the edge to the very bottom of the mold. 
Then turn over on a plate and strike the outside of 
the mold sharply with the palm of the hand, or, 
holding the plate and mold tightly together, shake 
them quickly. This will always insure success if 
the mold was wet thoroughly and very cold when 
the mixture was put into it. Dipping the mold in 
hot water for a moment is an excellent way to re- 
move the contents. If it is employed, it should be 
merely dipped in the hot water and removed at 
once. 

Egg and Crumbing 

Croquettes, oysters, fish, and other articles which 
are cooked by the deep frying method are prepared 

253 



CAROLINE KING'S COOK BOOK 

by dipping them in beaten egg and fine crumbs. 
This is a process which requires much care, for if it 
is not well done the crumbs will not stick, and when 
the frying is completed, bare spots will appear on 
the surface of the article, which will make it look 
ragged and unappetizing. 

In the first place, very fine crumbs must be used, 
and these should be of bread rather than cracker 
crumbs. The crumbs should be sifted and those 
made from the crusts of the bread kept separate from 
the inside of the loaf. Dehcate articles look better 
when only white cnunbs are used for covering them ; 
the brown crumbs made from the crusts will answer 
nicely for au gratin dishes. 

The egg for dipping should be well beaten. The 
whole egg should be used, though the yolk or white 
alone will give fairly satisfactory results. The use 
of the white of the egg alone will cause a rather 
tough crust, while the yolk will not prove so effec- 
tive in making the crumbs stick. A tablespoon of 
water may be added to each egg and strained with 
it, after beating both together. Spread the crumbs 
on a board and season them, then roll the articles in 
them and afterward in the egg. Sometimes the egg 
coating may be appUed more easily with a paint 
brush, but however it is done, care must be taken to 
coat every portion of the smiace with the egg. 
Then dip again in the bread crumbs, covering the 
articles well with them. When the last article has 
been dipped, the first will be ready for frying. 

254 



METHODS OF PREPARING FOOD MATERIALS 

Chopped parsley or tarragon or chervil may be 
added to the crumbs for variation, or a small quantity 
of Parmesan cheese is sometimes added, and the 
crumbs are then termed Milanaise Crumbs. 

Deviled Bread Crumbs. Season the article to 
be fried with salt, pepper, and paprika, and coat 
very thinly with mixed mustard before applying 
the beaten egg and bread crumbs. 

Sweet Croquettes may be dipped in crumbs made 
from stale cake or lady fingers. Macaroon crumbs 
are also used for this purpose occasionally. 



255 



CHAPTER XXII 

METHODS OF GARNISHING AND DECORATING 



Methods of Garnishing 
and Decorating 



With Herbs, Vegetables, or' Eggs 
With Pastry Bag and Tube 
With Fruits, Nuts, or Bonbons 
With Flowers 
. With Paper Frills, Rosettes, or Collars 



There are more than mere aesthetic reasons why 
foods should be made attractive to the eye. Dishes 
which tempt the appetite and cause the gastric 
juices to flow are more easily digested than those 
which are eaten merely because they are placed 
before one at meal time. That is why the invaUd's 
tray is always made as dainty and neat as possible 
and why one endeavors to make a delicate child's 
food interesting to him, for a feeble appetite is often 
coaxed by the sight of a tastefully decorated dish, 
when it would have rejected absolutely food pre- 
pared and served in the ordinary manner. 

To garnish a dish attractively adds almost noth- 
ing to its cost and makes it so much more pleasing 
in every way that the slight trouble it has required 
to place the bit of green or the slices of lemon or 
other decorations about it seems of little moment. 

256 



GARNISHING AND DECORATING 

The simplest form of garnishing is the sprig of parsley 
placed on a chop or steak, or the lemon sUce on the 
fish. From these to the elaborate decorations in 
sugar or aspic in which the chef takes such delight 
there are innumerable simple and attractive ways 
in which the value of even the most carefully pre- 
pared dish may be enhanced. 

Edible garnishes are always best if they can be 
managed. The steak served in a wreath of water 
cress is made doubly valuable, for both meat and 
garnish may be eaten, and one complements the 
other perfectly. A dish of pork chops served on a 
bed of spaghetti in tomato sauce not only looks far 
more attractive, but the food value of the com- 
bination is about twice as great as though the chops 
had been served alone. 

Small pickles sliced lengthwise and placed in a 
star on a meat loaf make a neat and tasty garnish. 
Hard-boiled eggs, the whites cut in sUces and the 
yolks pressed through a sieve, add to the attractive- 
ness of many a simple salad. Beets, green peppers, 
pimentos may be cut in fancy shapes with sharp 
knives or small vegetable cutters which come for 
this purpose, and make very pretty garnishes for 
boiled ham, salads, or other dishes. 

White turnips of regular size, pared, hollowed 
into cups and boiled, then filled with green peas, 
lima beans, or with the part of the vegetable which 
was removed cut into dice, and dressed with Becha- 
mel sauce, then topped with a disk of scarlet 

257 



CAROLINE KING'S COOK BOOK 

pimento, make a very attractive and tempting gar- 
nish for a planked steak or a pot roast. Carrots 
may be cut in thick slices and treated in the same 
way. 

Lemon slices cut very thin and dipped in finely 
chopped parsley are used in decorating fried, baked, 
or boiled fish. Sometimes a figure is cut from boiled 
or pickled beets and placed on each lemon sUce after 
dipping in parsley. 

Cream cheese balls also rolled in parsley are used 
effectively on salads. 

Tiny croquettes of rice or hominy, fried a golden 
brown and flanked by cubes of currant jelly, add 
to the tempting appearance of roast or fried chicken 
or duck. 

Toast cut in circles, diamonds, or strips makes an 
effective garnish for any creamed dish. 

Ribbons of green pepper or pimento look well on 
salads or vegetable dishes, and lettuce leaves rolled 
tightly and cut into ribbons, which are then sprinkled 
about cold meat shoes or salads of fruit or other 
vegetables, serve not only to make them more 
attractive, but also to provide a way in which the 
outer leaves of the lettuce may be utiUzed. 

Tomato slices are served as a garnish to fried 
or baked fish or broiled chicken. Eggs are boiled 
hard, cut in eighths, and placed in the form of a 
star on a mound of spinach. 

The whites of hard-boiled eggs, sliced thin and 
cut into any desired form with the vegetable cutter, 

258 




fouTtcsy of "Good Hou^ekeepino" 

Potato Salad, Garnished with Small Pickles, Pimentos 
AND Nuts 




Comtesy of "Good Hovsel-eejHng" 

The Pastry Bag and Tubes are Useful in Garnishing 



GARNISHING AND DECORATING 

and interspersed with pimento, beet, or green pepper 
look well as a salad or chafing dish garnish. 

Radishes of the small, round, bright red variety, 
when cut into flower form, add to the attractiveness 
of a potato salad, or a dish of broiled chops or steak 
or chicken. 

To form chrysanthemums, slice the radish very 
thin almost to the top, then cut across these sUces 
in the same manner. Drop the radishes in ice 
water for an hour and they will open out in a form 
which will resemble the chrysanthemum. 

Celery stalks cut in two-inch pieces, then fringed 
with a sharp knife at each end and placed in ice 
water to open, will also make neat decoration for a 
dish of cold meat or a salad. 

The pastry bag and tube are useful in garnishing 
and decorating sweet dishes or cakes. Cream, 
whipped sohd and sweetened, or left plain as de- 
sired, and forced through the tube in the shape of 
stars or roses, or as a border around molds of jelly, 
appears very tempting and adds to the daintiness 
and food value of the dish. The pastry bag may be 
purchased ready made, or it may be made at home. 
It should be of heavy duck in cornucopia shape, 
with an opening at the end large enough to permit 
the tube to be placed in it. Tubes are of tin and 
may be plain or in star shape. When forcing the 
cream or whatever material is to be used through 
it, hold the bag in the right hand and guide it in 
the desired direction, pressing gently with the left 

259 



CAROLINE KING'S COOK BOOK 

hand to force the contents through the opening in 
the tube. 

In making stars or roses, hold the bag in an 
upright position and force a small quantity of the 
contents straight down through the star tube. 
Then press the tube sharply into the very center of 
the flower and remove it quickly. 

Mashed potatoes forced through the tube about 
a planked steak or chicken, or spinach, squash, or 
any other vegetable used as a border for a meat 
dish by forcing it through the tube will add to both 
the appetizing qualities and appearance of the dish. 

Mayonnaise, made very stiff, may be so treated 
to ornament a salad ; meringues forced through the 
tube will decorate a pie, pudding, or a baked apple 
very daintily. Iced cakes are also ornamented by 
forcing stiff icing through the pastry tube in any 
form of decoration desired. 

Fresh flowers are often used for ornamenting 
creams, jelUes, custard, or blancmanges. A mold 
of blancmange chilled thoroughly, then turned out 
on a lace paper doily and having a sweet pea or 
two placed at the side will make a tempting des- 
sert for a summer luncheon. A green leaf or a bit 
of fern may also be used occasionally with good 
effect. 

Candied fruit is also effective when arranged neatly 
on frosted, iced cakes, cookies, puddings, or other des- 
serts. Cherries make the most easily managed 
fruit, though angelica soaked in boiling water and 

260 



GARNISHING AND DECORATING 

then cut in any desired form is also attractive, and 
citron sliced very thin and cut with the vegetable 
cutters into stars, disks, hearts, or flowers adds to 
the delectable appearance of small cakes. 

Blanched almonds, halved walnuts, pecans, or 
chopped peanuts are used as garnishes on cakes 
and sweet dishes. To blanch the almonds or 
walnuts, place the meats in a saucepan of cold water 
and bring rapidly to the boihng point. Then drain 
and plunge into cold water. Rub the walnuts be- 
tween coarse towels, and sUp the almond skins 
from them with the fingers. These nut meats may 
be placed in geometrical figures, in rows, or as pre- 
ferred on chocolate or mocha iced cakes, or they 
may be arranged on the cake batter just before 
placing it in the oven. Chopped nut meats sprinkled 
thickly over a coffee cake or braid before baking 
give a very dainty appearance to the finished prod- 
uct. 

Candies or bonbons are sometimes placed on cakes 
or sweet dishes as decorations, and this is a very 
good idea when a color scheme is to be carried out. 
Halved marshmallows may be used to decorate a 
simple pudding or a meringue, or they may be ar- 
ranged symmetrically on an iced cake. 

Paper frills, paper rosettes, and paper collars and 
doiUes are sold in many of the shops which deal in 
housefurnishing supplies. These little accessories 
dress the dishes on which they are used very neatly 
and effectively. The frills are made to fit ham bones, 

261 



CAROLINE KING'S COOK BOOK 

or to be placed on the ends of chops or on the drum 
sticks of chickens or turkeys; they are adjusted 
just before serving and are usually supplemented 
with a sprig of parsley, water cress, or the green 
tops from celery. 

[ Paper rosettes placed in the ends of croquettes, or 
in an upright position in individual souffles or cus- 
tards present a very neat appearance and are both 
inexpensive and easily arranged. 

Paper collars are placed about pudding dishes, 
pie plates, scalloped oysters, or any dish which is 
taken from the oven directly to the table. These 
collars may be had in various sizes to fit the small 
ramekin or the large pudding dish. 

If the housewife is possessed of imagination and 
originality, two most essential quaUties in a cook, 
she will be able to make almost any dish attractive 
with the materials that are to be found in every 
kitchen. A dash of paprika on a dish of mashed 
potatoes, or cinnamon and sugar scattered over the 
surface of a cake before it is baked, or a leaf or two 
from a geranium or some other plant in the kitchen 
window, will transform the simplest dish into one 
which is both dainty and tempting. 



262 



INDEX 



Accessories for Boiled 

Meats, 202 
Allemande Sauce, 78 
Angel Cake, Foundation for- 
mula for, 43 
Apple Gingerbread, 42 
Apples, Baked, 222 

Sauted ■with salt pork, 229 
Asparagus in Hollandaise 
sauce, 145 
Omelet, 121 
Sauce, 79 
Au Gratin Dishes, 145 

Baba Cakes, 14 
Bacon Griddlecakes, 28 

Mufans, 32 

Omelet, 121 
Baking, 217-222 

Heat required for Bread, 
218 
for Cake, 219 
for Pastry, 219 

Testing oven for, 218 
Banana Ice Cream, 171 
Batters, 23-33 

Cereal, 27 

Foundation formuto for, 
25,26 

Kinds of, 24 

Method of preparation, 25 

Pancake, 27 
B€arnaise Sauce, 86 
Bechamel Sauce, 78 
Beef, Braised, 206-207 
Berry Muffins, 32 



Biscuits, Emergency, 18 
Bisque lee Cream, 171 
Bisques, 71-72 
Blancmange, 164-166 

Chocolate, 166 

Easter Pudding, 165 

Fruit, 166 

Golden, 166 

Plain, 165 

Principles of making, 164 

Blueberry Pudding, Steamed, 

185 
Boiled Puddings. See Steamed 

Puddings 
Boiling, 197-209 

Principles of, 201-206 
Boston Brown Bread, 209 
Braised Beef, 206-207 

Meats, 136 

Roast, 207 

Steak, with Italian Spar 
ghetti, 207-208 
Braising, 200, 206 
Bread, 5-15 

Foimdation formula for, 6 

Baking, 7-8 

Fancy, 10-11 

Heat required for, 218 

Methods of preparation, 6-7, 
14-15 

Nut, 20 

Parched, for garnishing, 216 
Bread Omelet, 119 

Pudding, 174^177 

Sticks, 10-11 



263 



INDEX 



Brioche, 13 
Broiling, 212-213 

Principles of, 213 
Brown Bread, Boston, 209 
Butter Cake, 37-38 

Foundation formula for, 
37 

Icing, 107-108 
Butterfly Salad, 99 
Butterscotch Pudding, 176 

Cabbage, How to cook, 149 
Cake, S4r-4A 
Angel, Foundation formula 
for, 43 
Method of preparation, 
44 
Baking of, 39 
Butter, 34^36 

Foundation formulsa for, 

37,39 
Ingredients of, 35 
Method of mixing, 36-37 
Heat required for baking, 

219 
Sponge, 35 
Foundation formula for, 

42 
Method of preparation, 
42 
Varieties of, 44 
Cakes : Angel, 43 
Cherry, 51 
Chocolate Loaf, 38 
Devil's Food, 38 
Fruit, 38 
Nut, 38 
Pound, 39 
White, 39 
Canning, 231-237 
Cold-pack method, 232-233 
Fruit, 236-237 
Preparations for, 233-236 



Canning, Preparing vegetables 
for, 234r-235 

Principles of, 232 
Caper Sauce, 85 
Caramel Bread Pudding, 176 

Charlotte, 159 

Custard, 162 

Ice Croam, 170 

Icing, 111 

Junket, 164 
Carrots, Creamed, 152 

in cream, 146 
Celery Sauce, 78 
Cereals, Principles of cooking, 
202-203 

in batter, 27 
Chantilly Dressing, 95 
Charlotte, Caramel, 159 

Chocolate, 159 

Coffee, 159 
Cherry Cakes, 51 
Cheese Gingerbread, 41 

Omelet, 121 

Puffs, 19, 57 

Sauce, 77 
Chestnut Ice Cream, 170 
Chicken, Creamed, 80 

Stewed, 205 

Croquettes, 227 

Liver Omelet, 121 
Chiffonade Dressing, 95 
Chocolate Blancmange, 166 

Bread Pudding, 176 

Charlotte, 159 

Cookies, 23 

Custard, 162 

Doughnuts, 22 

Fudge Icing, 112-113 

Gingerbread, 42 

Ice Cream, 170 

Junket, 164 

Loaf, 38 

Meringue, 111 



264 



INDEX 



Chocolate Pie, 55 

Pudding, Steamed, 185 

Puffs, 57 

Sauce, 191-192 

Souffle, 188 

Water Icing, 105 
Chops, Deviled, -with mashed 
potatoes, 230 

Pan Broiled, 229 

■with currant mint sauce, 
230 
Chou Paste, 46, 55 

Foimdation formula for, 56 

Method of preparation, 56 
Chowders, Foundation formula 
for, 72 

Method of preparation, 72- 
73 
Cinnamon Buns, 12-13 

Puffs, 19 

Toast, 215 
Clarifying fat, 226 
Cocoa Butter Icing, 108 
Cocoanut Cookies, 23 

Pudding, 176 
Cocoa Sponge Cake, 43 
Coffee, How to make, 204 
Coffee Charlotte, 159 

Custard, 162 

lee Cream, 170 

Icing, 105, 112 

Jelly, 157 

Souffle, 188 
Cold-pack method of canning, 

232-233 
Consommg, 65 
Conserves, 245-247 

French, 246 

Peach, 247 

Pineapple, 246 

Tutti Frutti, 246 
Cooked Icings, 108-112 
Cookies, Chocolate, 23 



Cookies, Cocoanut, 23 

Foundation formula for, 21 
Corn-meal MufQns, 32 
Cranberry Pudding, Steamed, 

185 
Creamed Chicken, 80 

Eggs, 80 

Mushrooms, 151 

Oysters, 80 

Peas and Carrots, 152 

Potatoes, 80 

Salmon, 80 
Cream Pie, 55 

Puffs, 56 

Sauce, 190 
Prinpiple of making, 191- 
192 

Soups, Foundation formula 
for, 68 
Method of preparation, 
68-69 
Creole Eggplant, 151 

Meat Loaf, 138 

Sauce, 84 

Soup, 64 
Croquettes, 81 

Chicken, 227 

Rice, 227 

Sweet, 254 
Crouton Omelet, 121 
Crullers, 21-22 

Foimdation formula for, 21 

French, 57 

Jam, 22 

Nut, 22 
Cucumber Sauce, 85 
Currant Jelly Sauce, 85 
Currant Pie, 55 
Custards, 160-162 

Divisions of, 160 

Principles of making, 160 
Custards : Baked, 161 

Boiled, 161 



265 



INDEX 



Custards : Caramel, 162 

Chocolate, 162 

Coflfee, 162 

Floating Island, 162 

Frozen, 169 

Maple, 162 
Custard Pie, 53-54, 220 

Desserts, 153-186 

Classes of, 154, 155 

Cold, 155-166 

Elements of, 154 

Frozen, 166-173 

Hot, 174-186 

Principles of freezing, 173 
Deviled Bread Crumbs, 255 
Devil's Food, 38 
Doughnuts, 21-22 

Chocolate, 22 

See also Cookies 
Doughs, 4^33 

Baking-powder, 5, 16-33 

Foundation formulas for, 6, 
17, 18, 21 

Ingredients of, 4, 16 

Methods of preparation, 6-7, 
14-15, 17-18, 22 

Subclasses of, 4-5 

Sweet, 10-11, 21 

Types of, 4 

Yeast, 4-15 
Dresden Pudding, 158-159 
Dressings, 87-107 

Cooked, 96-98 

Foundation formulae for, 90, 
93, 96, 97, 98 

French, 90-92 

Ingredients of, 88-89 

Methods of preparation, 90- 
91, 93-94, 96-97 

Mayonnaise, 88, 92-96 

Types of, 88 
Dressings, Salad : Chantilly, 95 



Dressings : Chiffonade, 95 

Fluffy, 96 

French, with fruit juice, 91 

Mayonnaise, 92-94 

Parisian, 92 

Roquefort, 92 

Russian Salad, 95 

Sauce Ravigote, 95 

Sauce Tartare, 95 

Sauce Tyrolienne, 95 

Suffrage Salad, 98 

Vinaigrette, 91 
Duchess Potatoes, 144 
Dumplings, 18 

Easter Pudding, 165 

Eclairs, 57 

Egg and Crumbing, 253-254 

Eggplant, Creole, 151 

Egg Sauce, 77 

Eggs, Creamed, 80 

Principles of boiling, 203-204 
Election Cake, 13-14 
Emergency Biscuits, 18 
Entire Wheat Flour, Use of, 
27—28 

MufBns, 31-32 

Fats, How to clarify, 226 
Figaro Sauce, 86 
Fig Pudding, 180 

Steamed, 186 
Fillings, 112-114 

Lady Baltimore, 110 

Lemon Honey, 113 

Marlborough, 113 

Orange Honey, 113 

Strawberry Cream, 113 
Fish, Planked, 214 
Floating Island, 162 
Flour mixtures, 3-28 

Foundation of, 4 
Fluffy Dressing, 96 



266 



INDEX 



Foamy Sauce, 190 
Foimdation f ormulsB for : 
Batters : Muffins, 31 

Pop-overs, 30 

Waffle, 25, 26 
Cakes : Angel, 43 

Butter, 37 

Gingerbread, 40 

Pound, 39 

Sponge, 42-43 

White, 39 
Chowders, 72 
CruUers and Cookies, '21 
Dressings : Cooked, with 
96 

without oil, 97 

Suffrage Salad, 98 

French, 90 

Mayonnaise, 93 
Dough : Quick-raising, 
18,21 

Yeast, 6 
Icings : Butter, 107 

Boiled, 109 

Caramel, 111 

Soft, 106 

Water, 104 
Omelets, 116 

French, 119 
Pastry : Plain, 47 

Chou Paste, 56 

Puff Paste, 51 
Sauces : Brown, 83 

Thick White, 80 

White, 76 
Soups, Cream, 68 
Stocks : Brown, 61 

White, 66 
See also Principles 
Frapp§, 169 
French Conserve, 246 
Crullers, 57 
Sauce, 86 



French Dressing, 90-92 

Foundation formula for, 

90 
Method of preparation, 
90-91 
Fried Onions, 151 
Fried Potatoes, 228 
Omelet, 119 
Rice Pudding, 180 
Rice Chocolate Pudding, 
181 
Food materials, How to meas- 
ure, 248-249 
oil, How to mix, 250-251 

Rolling, 252-253 
Molding, 253 

Egg and Crumbing, 253- 
255 
Fritters, 28-29 
17, Frizzled Beef Omelet, 121 
Frozen Creams, 169-173 
Frozen Desserts, Kinds of, 
166-167 
Water Ices, 167-169 
Frozen Pudding, 171 
Fruit, Baked, 221 

Dried, principles of cook- 
ing, 203 
How to can, 236 
How to preserve, 239-240 
Spiced, 244r-245 
Fruit Blancmange, 166 
Bread Pudding, 177 
Butter, 244 
Cake, 38 
Fluff Icing, 107 
Gingerbread, 41 
loing, 105 
Muffins, 32 
Pies, 50 
Pudding, 180 

Steamed, 186, 209 
Roly-Poly, 20-21 

267 



INDEX 



Fruit Sauce, 190, 191 

Souffle, 188 
Frying, 223-230 

Deep-fat, 225-227 

Medium for, 224 

Principles of, 224 

Garnishing, 256-262 

Edible, 257-259 

with candied fruits, 260 

■with flowers, 260 

with nuts and candies, 261 

with paper friUs, rosettes 
and ooUars, 261-262 

with pastry bag and tube, 
259-260 
Gelatine Desserts, Foundation 

principles of, 156 
Gems. See Muffins 
Gingerbread, 40-42 

Foundation formula for, 40 

Method of preparation, 40- 
41 
Gingerbread : Apple, 42 

Cheese, 41 

Chocolate, 42 

Fruit, 41 

Layer, 41 

MarshmaUow, 41 

Nut, 41 
Gingerbread Pudding, 42 
Golden Blancmange, 166 
Goulash, 136 

Graham Flour, Use of, 27-28 
Graham MufSns, 31 
Griddleeakes, Bacon, 28 

Ham Omelet, 120 
Hard Sauce, 189 
Hollandaise Sauce, 85 
Hot Cross Buns, 14 
How to clarify fats, 226 



How to make coffee, 204 

Tea, 204 
How to test an oven, 218 

Ice Cream, 170-171 

Banana, 171 

Bisque, 171 

Caramel, 170 

Chestnut, 170 

Chocolate, 170 

Coffee, 170 

Maple, 170 

Philadelphia, 171 

Raspberry, 170 

Strawberry, 170 
lees. Division of, 167 

Foundation principles of, 
167, 173 

Method of freezing, 171-172 

See also Ice Cream 
Ices: Frappe, 169 

Frozen Custard, 169 

Frozen Pudding, 171 

Fruit Juice, 168 

Ice Creams, 170-171 

Lemon Water, 168 

Punch, 169 

Sherbets, 168-169 

Water Ices, 167-169 
Icings, 102-114 

Cooked, 108-112 

Foundation formulae for, 

104, 106, 107, 109, 111 
Methods of preparation, 104- 

105, 106, 107, 109, 112 
Subdivisions of, 104 
Uncooked, 104^107 
Varieties of, 103-104, 113- 

114 
Icings : Butter, 107, 108 
Caramel, 111 
Chocolate Meringue, 111 
Chocolate Fudge, 112 



268 



INDEX 



loings : Chocolate Water, 105 

Cocoa Butter, 108 

Coffee, 105, 112 

Fruit, 105 

Fruit Fluff, 107 

Ice Cream, 106 

MarshmaUow, 111 

Meringue,' 110 

Maple, 112 

Mocha Butter, 108 

Nut, 112 

Kneapple, 111 

Soft, 105-106 

Strawberry Butter, 108 

Strawberry Meringue, 111 

Water, 104 
Irish Stew, 134 
Italian Beef Loaf, 212 

Onion Soup, 64-65 

Jam Cbttllers, 22 
Jams, 240-241 

Principles of making, 240 
Jellied fruits and nuts, 157 
Jellies, How to make, 242-244 

Principles of making, 242 
Jelly : Coffee, 157 

Dresden Pudding, 158-159 

Lemon, 156 

Russian, 156-157 

Snow Pudding, 157 

Spanish Cream, 158 
JeUy Omelet, 118 

Puffs, 19 
Julienne Soup, 65 
Junket, Caramel, 164 

Chocolate, 164 

Simplest, 163 
Junkets, 163-164 

Principles of making, 163 

Lady Baltimore Filling, 110 
Lamb Chops, Pan Broiled, 229 



Layer Gingerbread, 41 
Lemon Honey, 113 

JeUy, 156 

Meringue Pie, 54^55, 220 

Sauce, 190 
Liquid Sauces, Principles of 

making, 190-191 
Lyonnaise Potatoes, 228-229 

Macaroni, 80 

Maltre d'h6tel Butter, 132 

Maple Custard, 162 

Ice Cream, 170 

Icing, 112 

Pudding, 177 
Marlborough FiUing, 113 
Marmalade, Principles of mak- 
ing, 241 
MarshmaUow Gingerbread, 41 

Icing, 111 
Mayonnaise, 92-96 

Foundation formula for, 93 

Method of preparation, 93-94 
Measurements, Table of, 250 
Meat Pies, 20, 48 

Method of preparation, 48 

Pastry for, 46 
Meats, 123-139 

Accessories for boiled, 202 

Classes of, 125-126 

Cuts of, 129 

How to serve, 131, 132 

Nutrition in, 125-126 

Preparation of, 129-130, 
132-133 

Principles of cooking, 126, 
129, 131, 201, 215 

Rules for broihng, 131-132 

Rules for roasting, 129-133 
Meringue, Strawberry, 111 
Meringue Icing, 110 
Meringues, 177-178 

Principles of making, 177 



269 



INDEX 



Mixing Materials, 250-252 

Beating, 250-251 

Folding and cutting, 251 

Kneading, 251-252 

Rolling, 252 

Stirring, 250 
Mocha Butter Icing, 108 
Molding, 253 
Mousse, 83 
Muffins and Gems, 31-33 

Foundation formula for, 31 

Method of preparation, 31 
Muffins : Bacon, 32 

Berry, 32 

Corn-meal, 32 

Fruit, 32 

Oatmeal, 32 

Nut, 20 

Bice, 32 

Rye, 32 
Mushrooms, 150 

Creamed, 151 

SautSd with Bacon, 229 
Mushroom Sauce, 84 
Mutton Chops, 230 

Napoleons, 50-51 
Nun's Butter, 189 
Nut Bread, 20 

Cake, 38 

CruUers, 22-23 

Gingerbread, 41 

Icing, 112 

Muffins. 20 

Pu£Es, 19 

Oatmeal Muffins, 32 
Olive Sauce, 85 
Omelet Soufflg, 118 
Omelets, 115-122 

Forms of, 116 

Foundation formulae for, 116, 
119 



Omelets, Methods of preparar 
tion, 117, 119-120, 122 
Omelets: Asparagus, 121 

Bacon, 121 

Bread, 119 

Cheese, 121 

Chicken liver, 121 

Crouton, 121 

French, 119 

Frizzled Beef, 121 

Ham, 120 

JeUy, 118 

Oyster, 117-118 

Rum, 118 

Spanish, 120 

Tomato, 120 
Onions, French Fried, 151 
Orange Honey, 113 
Oyster Omelet, 117 

Sauce, 78 
Oysters, Creamed, 80 

Fried, 227 

Pan Broiling, 229-230 
Pancakes, 27 

See also Geiddlbcakes 
Parched Bread for garnishing, 

216 
Parching, 215 
Parisian Dressing, 92 
Parker House Rolls, 9-10 
Parsley Sauce, 79 
Pastry, Divisions of, 46 
Chou, 46, 55 

Foundation formula for, 56 

Method of preparation, 56 

Heat required for baking, 

219 
Plain, 47 

Foundation formula for, 

47 
Method of preparation, 
47-48, 49 



270 



INDEX 



Pastry, Puff, 51 

Foundation formula for, 51 
Method of preparation, 
52-53 
Pastry Shortcake, 55 
Peach Conserve, 247 

Pudding, Steamed, 185 
Pears, Baked, 221 
Peas, Creamed, 152 
Philadelphia Ice Cream, 171 
Pies, 45-^8 

Method of preparation, 48 

Pastry for meat, 20, 46 
Pies : Chocolate, 55 

Cream, 55 

Custard, 53-54, 220 

Fresh Currant, 55 

Fruit, 50 

Lemon Meringue, 54,. 220 

One-crust, 48 

Pumpkin or Squash, 220- 
221 

Squash, 54 
Pineapple Conserve, 246 

Icing, 111 
Piquante Sauce, 84^85 
Planked Fish, 214 

Hamburg Steak, 137 

Steak, 215 
Planking, 214 
Plum Pudding, 186 
Pop-overs, 29 

Foundation formula for, 30 

Method of preparation, 30 
Poor Man's Pudding, 179 
Pork Chops, 230 
Potato Salad, 101 
Potatoes, Boiled for mashing, 
144 

Boiled in jackets, 144r-145 

Creamed, 80 

Delmonico, 80 

Duchess, 144 



Potatoes, French Fried, 228 

Lyonnaise, 228 
Pot Roast, 206-207 
Pound Cake, Foundation for- 
mula for, 39 
Preserving, 238-240 
Principles of, 239 
Principles of cookery, Founda- 
tion : 
Cereals, 202 
Canning, 232 

Desserts : Blancmange, 164 
Custards, 160 
Gelatine, 156 
Junkets, 163 
Puddings, 175, 179, 181, 

184 
Water ices, 167 
Eggs, 203-204 
Freezing cream, 173 
Fruits, dried, 203 
Frying, 224 
Jam making, 240 
Jelly making, 242 
Marmalades, 241 
Meats, 126 
Boiling, 201 
Broiling, 131, 213 
Planking, 214 
Roasting, 129, 211 
Meringues, 177 
Sauce, hard, 189 
Preserving, 239 
Vegetables, 142, 148, 203 
dried, 203 
Processes of cooking, 197-230 
BoiUng, 197-209 
Baking, 217-222 
Frying, 223-230 
Sauteing, 228-229 
Pan broiling, 229-230 
Roasting, 210-216 
Stewing, 205 



271 



INDEX 



Prunes, Baked, 222 
Puddings, Principles of mak- 
ing, 175, 179, 181, 184 
Puddings: Blueberry, Steamed, 
185 
Bread, 174, 175-176 
Boiled and Steamed, 183- 

186 
Butterscotch, 176 
Caramel Bread, 176 
Caramel Rice, 179 
Chocolate Bread, 176 

Steamed, 185 
Cocoanut Bread, 176 
Cranberry, Steamed, 185 
Fig, 180 

Steamed, 186 
French Rice, 180 
French Chocolate, 181 
Fruit, 180 

Steamed, 186 
Fruit Bread, 177 
Maple, 178 
Peach, Steamed, 185 
Plum, 186 
Poor Man's, 179 
Rice, 178-181 
Suet, 185-186 
Tapioca, 181-183 
Tapioca Cocoanut, 183 
Custard, 182 
Fruit, 182 
Meringue, 183 
Pudding sauces, 188-192 
Cream sauces, 191-192 
Hard sauces, 189-190 
Liquid sauces, 190-191 
Principles of making, 189 
Puff Balls, 57 
Paste, 46 
Foundation formula for, 51 
Method of preparation, 
52-53 



Puffs, Cheese, 19, 57 

Chocolate, 57 

Cinnamon, 19 

Cream, 56 

Jelly, 19 

Nut, 19 
Pumpkin Pie, 220-221 
Punch, 169 
Purees, 70-71 

Quince, Baked, 221 

Ragouts, 135 

Raspberries, How to can, 237 

Raspberry lee Cream, 170 

Rhubarb, 221 

Rice Croquettes, 227 

MufSns, 32 

Puddings, 178-181 

Principles of making, 179 

Soup, 67 
Roast, Braised, 207 
Roasting, 210-216 

Principle of, 211 
Rolls, Preparation of, 8-9 

Parker House, 9 

Salad, 10 
Roquefort Dressing, 92 
Rosette Steaks, 139 
Rum Omelet, 118 
Rusks, 13 
Russian Jelly, 156-157 

Salad Dressing, 95 
Rye MufBns, 32 

Salad Dressinob. See Dsssa- 

INGS 

Salad RoUs, 10 

Salads : k la Caroline, 100 

Butterfly, 99 

Potato, 101 

Spring, 101 



272 



INDEX 



Salads : Tipperary, 100 

Tomato, Stuffed, 100 
Salmon, Creamed, 80 
Sauces, Kinds of, 75, 76 

roundation formula for, 
76, 80, 83 

Methods of preparation, 77, 
80-81, 83-84 

Subdivisions, 76 

Uses of, 80, 81, 82, 83 
Sauces : Allemande, 78 

Asparagus, 79 

B€arnaise, 86 

Bechamel, 78 

Brown, 83-84 

Caper, 85 

Celery, 78 

Cheese, 77 

Creole, 84 

Cucumber, 85 

Currant Jelly, 85 

Drawn Butter, 85 

Egg, 77 

Figaro, 86 

French, 86 

HoUandaise, 85 

Miscellaneous, 85-86 

Mushrooms, 84 

Olive, 85 

Oyster, 78 

Parsley, 79 

Piquante, 84 

Ravigote, 95 

Soubise, 78 

Spanish, 84 

Tartare, 95 

Thick White, 80 

Tomato, 84 

Tomato Cream, 79 

TyroUenne, 95 

Veloutg, 77 

White, 76-77 
Sauce, Pudding, 188-192 



Sauce, Cream, 191-192 
Chocolate, 191-192 
Fruit, 191 
YeUow, 191 
Hard, 189 
Fruit, 190 
Nun's Butter, 189 
Liquid, 190-192 
Foamy, 190 
Lemon, 190 
Sauteing, 228-229 
Scalloped vegetables, 146 
Scones, 21 
Sherbets, 168 
Shortcake, 19 
Pastry, 55 

Sweet Strawberry, 38-39 
Simmering, 200 
Snow Pudding, 157 
Soubise Sauce, 78 
SouflBes, 81-82, 187, 188 
Chocolate, 188 
Coffee, 188 
Fruit, 188 
Plain, 187-188 
Soups, Foundations of, 59-60 
Foundation formulae for, 61, 

66, 68 
Methods of preparation, 61- 

64, 66-67, 68-69 
Subclasses of, 60, 68, 70, 71, 72 
Uses of, 62, 67 
Soups : Consommg; 65 
Cream, 68 
Creole, 64 

EngUsh Tomato, 65-66 
Italian Onion, 64r-65 
Juhenne, 65 
Rice, 67 
Spring, 67 
Soup Stocks, 60 
Spaghetti, 80 
Spanish Cream, 158 



273 



INDEX 



Spanish Omelet, 120 
Sauce, 84 

Sauce for Omelet, 120 
Spiced fruits, 244^245 
Spinach in Bechamel Sauce, 

151 
Sponge Cake, 42-43 
Cocoa, 43 
Foundation formulae for, 42, 

43 
White, 43 
Spring Salad, 101 

Soup, 67 
Squash Pie, 54, 220-221 
Steak with Spaghetti, Braised 

Round, 207-208 
Steak Planked, 215 
Steamed Puddings, 183-186 
Principles of making, 184 
Steamed Blueberry Pudding, 
185 
Chocolate Pudding, 185 
Cranberry Pudding, 185 
Fig Pudding, 186 
Fruit Pudding, 186, 209 
Peach Pudding, 185 
Plum Pudding, 186 
Steaming, 200, 208-209 
Sterilization, 231, 233 
Stewing of Meats, 200, 205 
Stocks, Brown, 61-66 

Foundation formula for, 61 
Method of preparation, 

61-64 
Uses of, 62 
White, Foundation formula 
for, 66 
Method of preparation, 

66-67 
Uses of, 67 
Strawberries, How to can, 236- 

237 
Strawberry Butter Icing, 108 



Strawberry Cream, 113 

Ice Cream, 170 

Meringue, 111 

Shortcake, 38 

Tart, 58 
Stuffed vegetables, 146-147 
Suet Pudding, 185 
Suffrage Salad Dressing, 98 
Swedish Coffee Braid, 11-12 
Swedish Tartlets, 51 

Table op Meastjrembnts, 

250 
Tapioca Pudding, 181-183 

Principles of making, 181 
Tapioca Cocoanut Pudding, 
183 

Custard Pudding, 182 

Fruit Pudding, 182 

Meringue, 183 
Tartare, Sauce, 95 
Tarts, 51 

Strawberry, 58 
Tea, How to make, 204 
Tinibales, 82 
Tipperary Salad, 100 
Toast, Cinnamon, 215 
Toasting and Parching, 215 
Tomatoes, How to cook, 150 

Stewed, 150 
Tomato Cream Sauce, 79 

Omelet, 120 

Salad, 100 

Sauce, 84 

Soup, BngUsh, 65-66 
Turnovers, 19, 49 
Tutti Frutti Conserve, 246 

Vegetables, 140-152 
h, la Jardiniere, 152 
Classes of, 141 
Composition of, 142 



274 



INDEX 



Vegetables, How to prepare for 
oanning, 234r-236 
How to serve, 143-144 
Principles of cooking, 142, 

148, 203 
ScaUoped, 146, 237 
Stuffed, 146-147 
Subdivisions, 141, 148 
Unusual recipes, 151-152 

Vegetable Soup, 65 



Veloute Sauce, 79 
Vinaigp-ette Dressing, 91 

Wapples, 25-26 

Foundation f ormulse for, 25, 
26 

White Cake, Foundation for- 
mula for, 39 

Tbllow Sauce, 191 



275 



