
This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 
to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 
to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 
are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other marginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 
publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing this resource, we have taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 

We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain from automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attribution The Google "watermark" you see on each file is essential for informing people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liability can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 



at |http : //books . google . com/ 






Mj I 1 ,1 V 



♦ r '^ -^ f :' s 



.E^SONS 
COOKERY 



lET FOR CHILDREN 



•■->> 



I 



:v3r^ 



Mu-J. 






A ^, 



^.tOc^T C^Qi^, i^-.^O^- 



l^arbarli College l^ibrars 




LIBRARY OF THE 

DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION 



BUREAU OF 
VOCATIONAL GUIDANCE 




3 2044 102 873 429 



LESSONS IN COOKERY 

DIET FOR CHILDREN 



HOME ECONOMICS SERIES 



LESSONS IN COOKERY 



BOOK THREE 
DIET FOR CHILDREN 



By 
FRANCES ELIZABETH STEWART 

Imtrudor in Home Economics, Robert Lindblom Technical High School, Chicago 




RAND McNALLY & COMPANY 

CHICAGO NEW YORK 



£*:Q^c^T6(i(<7J.«8-.^<D%- 



u/ 



Copyright, 1919, by 
Rand McNally & Company 



HARVARD UNIVBRtlTY 

DIVISION OF fcOU' A riON 
■URBAUOF VOCA ^:0^ -»!. '.U\BJkfl9^ 



xC^ 



^^ 



^^a^ 



/^/kRVAfMD \ 

UmVERSlTY 

VUBRARVy 




THE CONTENTS 

PAGE 

The Preface vii 



PART I. INTRODUCTION 

General Information 3 

Bibliography for Feeding of Children 5 

Energy Requirements OF Children ... \ ......./. . 6 

Essentials of Diet for Growth in Children 7 

Time for the Introduction of VARiourPooDS into Children's Diet .... 11 

Foods Objectionable in Children's Diet ' . 16 

PART II. DIET FOR THE EXPECTANT MOTHER 

Essentials in the Diet of the Expectant Mother 21 

PART III. DIET FOR THE YOUNGER INFANT 
(BIRTH TO ONE YEAR OP AGE) 

9 Natural Feeding of Young Infants 25 

Artificial Feeding of Young Infants 27 

PART IV. DIET FOR THE OLDER INFANT 
. (ONE TO TWO YEARS OP AGE) 

Suggestions for a Day's Meals . 33 

Liquids and Semi-solid Foods 36 

PART V. DIET FOR THE CHILD TWO TO FOUR YEARS OF AGE 

Suggestions for a Day's Meals 43 

Strained Vegetables 47 

PART VI. DIET FOR THE CHILD FOUR TO EIGHT YEARS OF AGE 

Suggestions for a Day's Meals 51 

Breakfast Cereals 53 

Cream Soups 56 

Broths 65 

Cream Toasts 66 

PART VII. DIET FOR THE CHILD EIGHT TO TWELVE YEARS OF AGE 

Suggestions for a Day's Meals . . . ' . ' . .69 

Eggs 74 

Meat and Fish 81 

^ Vegetables 87 

Beverages 90 

Desserts Made on a Milk Basis 95 

V 



vi THE CONTENTS 

SUGGESTIONS FOR CHILDREN'S PARTIES 

PAGE 

Sandwiches 102 

Fruit Salads 104 

Desserts 106 

Charlottes > 106 

Sherbets 109 

Miscellaneous Desserts 112 

PART VIII. DIET FOR THE BOY AND GIRL TWELVE TO 
EIGHTEEN YEARS OF AGE (HIGH-SCHOOL AGE) 

Suggestions por a Day's Meals 117 

Lunch Boxes 120 

Dietetic Scheme for a School-Child's Lunch Box 120 

Nutritive Value and Cost of Mentis for Children's Lunch Boxes 122 

General Equipment for a Limch Box 124 

Sandwich Fillings 126 

Miscellaneous Crackers and Cookies 127 

Flour Mixtures Made with Sirup 133 

Cakes Made with Sugar 137 

Desserts 139 

Simple Fruit Desserts 144 

Simple Gelatin Jellies 153 

Simple "Vegeteble-Gelatin" Jellies 156 

Simple Candies 159 

Sugar and Sirup Candies 160 

Fruit and Nut Candies '. 166 

Meat and Fish for Parties 171 

appendix 

Part A. Penny and Other Lunchrooms for School Children 175 

Part B. Between-Meal Lunches for Normal Children 182 

PartC. Digestion 184 

Part D. Percentage Composition Diagrams of Foods 186 

PartE. Miscellaneous Aids to the Study of the Composition of Foods . . 200 

Part F. Experiments: Composition of Foods. 202 

Part G. Recipe Variations for Adults' Diet 210 



The Index 217 



THE PREFACE 

The greatest of woman's responsibilities is the bearing, nurture, and training of chil- 
dren. It is, then, to help keep alive among the young women of to-day the old-fashioned 
ideals that have proved their value — while by no means excluding new ideals and teach- 
ings — that this book is offered to the schools. The author, recognizing the physician's 
prerogative and responsibility in planning for children's diet, simply aims to foster in young 
women a desire for general intelligence in the feeding of children. 

Diet for Children, which is a consideration of certain basic principles and a collection of 
typical recipes and menus for use in children's diet, aims to present them in a form simple 
enough to be grasped by school girls and to arouse their interest. The book contains, in 
addition to the introduction and the section pertaining to the mother's diet, six sections 
dealing with the diet for definite ages, arranged in sequence from birth through the high- 
school age. Typical, not arbitrary, recipes are given. The object has been to construct 
and classify the recipes according to certain organizing principles, the chief of which are 
evolution and food value. Evolution is the keynote of the book, in that the use, with each 
age, of foods and recipes a Httle more complex than those of the preceding age is shown. 
A list of suggestions for definite lessonis precedes each section. The aim has been to 
include only such cooking lessons as may be of practical use in children's diet. 

This voltune, like the other voltmies of the series. Food Economy, Diet for Adults, 
and Diet for Invalids, is designed primarily for the high-school student of home economics. 
It covers a semester's work, containing forty cooking lessons, two for each week of the 
semester. No less time than two fifty-minute or two sixty-minute periods is recommended 
for each lesson. The lessons are planned according to foods in season from September 
to February. The Appendix contains optional work (chiefly chart and experimental prob- 
lems) to be assigned at the discretion of the teacher as either recitation or home work. 
It is not imperative that the topics or lessons be presented in the sequence given; season 
and market conditions often necessitate a change. The lessons in Diet for Children are 
simple and call for less expensive ingredients, on the whole, than the lessons in the other 
three books of the series. The school may reduce expense by having the pupils bring 
from home many ingredients, such as fruits for use in fruit salads and desserts. The author 
has found that the use of certain materials from home adds greatly to the pupil's interest 
in the lessons. 

The book is in condensed and summarized form, permitting rapid reading, and has 
been kept as simple as possible. The aim has been to give the recipes in a form that will 
develop initiative and responsibility in the pupil. The author hopes that the book, whether 
used in the school or in the home, will be an aid to that kind of teaching which helps the 

vii 



viii THE PREFACE 

student to help herself. The author believes in individual rather than group work for the 
pupil. The class recipes will be found helpful, especially to beginning teachers, and they 
may also have two uses in the home: as a trial, or test, recipe for the housewife and as a 
means of teaching a child of almost any age to cook. Mother and daughter may work at 
the same time with their respective large and small recipes. Those teachers are fortunate 
who may cooperate with a school lunchroom, thus being able to demonstrate to the pupils 
the use of foods for children of various ages. 

The lessons in the other three books of the series are also arranged in sequence accord- 
ing to foods in season: Book One, September to February; Book Two, February to Jime; 
Book Four, February to Jirne. The four books cover a two-year course. Each book is a 
imit in itself; therefore it is not necessary to teach the entire series to a given class of pupils, 
although it is very desirable to do so. The series is recommended for use by either the 
younger or the older girls in high school. The author believes, however, that the more 
mature mind is better fitted for a study of dietetics. 

The recipes in the four books have been carefully tested. While the recipes in the 
last two books are to be used specifically in children's and invalids' diets, yet most of 
them may also be used with normal adults. 

Each of the four books is also published in the form of a loose-leaf "filler" suitable 
for class use. Loose-leaf books offer greater flexibility for the teacher and student, having 
already proved their value in the botanical and other high-school science laboratories. 
Such books form a framework for the teaching of any given course, and are time-savers, 
for the pupil is spared the mechanical copying of such material as charts and recipes. As 
a sheet is required for a lesson, it is removed from the filler and placed in an inexpensive 
notebook cover. A loose-leaf laboratory book is distinctly a pupil's book, not a teacher's. 
Some scheme should be devised for keeping the recipe sheets clean during the lesson period; 
one way is to post a few extra copies on the wall of the laboratory. The loose-leaf plan 
allows the teacher to add experimental work if she thinks best, and it also provides space 
for additional recipes, mounted illustrations, or clippings from newspapers and magazines. 

It is hoped that all of the volimies will prove useful to homekeepers. The bound 
books may be preferred by housewives, the loose-leaf by school girls. 

The series is an outgrowth of a ntmiber of years' teaching experience in the Wendell 
Phillips and Murray F. Tuley High Schools of Chicago. In addition, three years were 
spent by the author as critic teacher of grade cooking in the Chicago Normal School. 

The author wishes to acknowledge her indebtedness to Professor Mary D. Chambers, 
B.S., A.M., and Dr. A. D. Emmett (in charge of the nutritional investigations in the 
biological research laboratories of Parke Davis & Company) for their valuable criticism 
of manuscript and proofs. Recognition is made of the training received at Pratt Institute. 
Finally, the author wishes to express gratitude to her pupils, whose industry and enthusiasm 
have given the impetus for the development of the series. 

F. E. S. 



PART I 
INTRODUCTION 



"Feed a growing child properly and you have helped to make 
a good citizen. Every child has the right to a useful body and 
mind, but in order to have either he must be given the right kind 
of food at the proper time." — Mary Swartz Rose, "The Feeding 
of Young Children," Technical Education Bulletin No. S, Teachers 
College, Columbia .University. 



DIET FOR CHILDREN 



GENERAL INFORMATION 
TABLE OF ABBREVIATIORS 



spk.= Speck 


pk.=peck sec.=secQnd 


d,=drQp 


oz. = ounce min. = minute 


ssp. = saltspoon 


lb. = pound lir.=hour 


t.=teaspcx)n 


pkg. = package C. === calorie 


tb.= tablespoon 


h. = heaping ** C. = degrees Centigrade 


c. = cup 


b. p. = baldng powder ** F. = degrees Fahrenheit 


pt.=pmt 


tt.= test-tube 


qt.= quart 


''=inch 


/ denotes a fraction : 3^ c. = one-half cup 


- denotes gradation : 1-2 c. = 1 to 2 c. 




TABLE OF MEASURES 


dash=one sprinkle 4 c. = 1 qt. 


A ssp. = 1 1. 


2c. butter = lib. 


3t. = ltb. 


4 c. flour=llb. 


16tb. = lc. 


legg=4tb. 


2c. = lpt. 




TABLE OF OVEN TEMPERATURES' 


Oven 


^F. ^C. 


Slow 


250-350 ^^^ *** "ttppiy) ^ 


Moderate 


350^00 


Hot, or "quick" 400-450 


Very hot 


. 450-550 



MISCELLANEOUS STATEMENTS 

1. Unless otherwise specified, all bulk measurements are level. AH leveling of 
ingredients in cups, spoons, etc., should be done with the flat side of a spatula, 
not the edge. Why? 

2. Possible reasons for discrepancies which may arise in the tmpes are: 

a. Lack of standardization as to the size of spoons, measuring cups, 
etc. (Most saltspoons sold are not of standard size.) 

b. Varying degrees to which flour and other ingredients are packed. 

^Technical Education BuUetin No. es, Teachers College, Columbia Uaiversity, "Some 
Attempts to Standardize Oven Temperatures for Cookery Processes," by Van Arsdale. 

3 



4 LESSONS IN COOKERY 

3. The following rules ^ concerning flour mixtures should be observed: 

a. Measure flour for baking purposes after the first sifting; this rule 
applies as well to the quantity of flour mentioned in all standard 
cookbooks. 

b. Dip flour lightly into a cup by spoonfuls; do not pack by scooping 
with the cup or shaking the cup; aim to keep the flour light. In 
measuring a fraction of a cup, level with a spoon, do not shake. 
Rtiles a and 6 apply also to certain other dry ingredients which pack 

« easily, such as powdered sugar. 

c. Pastry and bread flours may be used interchangeably in all recipes, 
as desired, but note that less liquid is required with pastry than with 
bread flour; an average rule is to allow 13^ c. pastry flour to 1 c. bread 
flour. Brands of both bread and pastry flours vary greatly as to 
their requirements for liquid, hence no. set rule can be given. 

d. The first figure of the ratios 1:1, 2:1, 3:1, etc., as applied to flour 
mixttures = flour ; second figure = wetting. 

e. In all recipes, sour milk and soda may be substituted for sweet milk 
and baking powder. 

4. In general, the term "fat" as used in this book means butter or a substitute. 
(See page 10, Note 6.) 

6. In most cases, the class recipe is placed at the left of the corresponding large 
recipe. 

6. As a rule, all class recipes should be cooked more quickly than the large 
recipes, proportionately speaking; otherwise they dry out. This applies particu- 
larly to the cooking of meats and to baking in general. 

7. Note directions for changing °C. to °F., and vice versa (parentheses are used 
in the second statement, but not in the first) : 

%°C.+32 = °F. 
?^(^F.-32)=°C. 

8. The term "calorie," as used in this book, means the greater calorie, that 
is, the amount of heat required to raise the temperature of 1 kg. of water 1** C. ; 
this is very nearly the same as the heat required to raise 4 lb. of water 1° P. 

9. To the Teacher: Opportunity is given in this book for teaching the prin- 
ciples underlying the preparation of * carbohydrate, fatty, and protein foods, 
such as: 



Gruels 


Candies 


Charlottes 


Eggs 


Cereals 


Fruits, stewed 




Fish 


Vegetables 






Gelatin 


Flour mixtures 






Meat 
Milk 



1 Detailed rules and notes on flour mixtures, preceded by a classification of flour mixtures, 
are given in Diet for Adults, pages 37-41. 



DIET FOR CHILDREN 5 

BIBLIOGRAPHY FOR FEEDING OF CHILDREN 

Care of Children Series, Children's Bureau, U.S. Department of Labor: 

No. 1, Prenatal Care, by Mrs. Max West. 

No. 2, Infant Care, by Mrs. Max West. 

No. 3, Child Care, Part I, The Preschool Age, by Mrs. Max West. 

No. 4, Milk, the Indispensable Food for Children, by Dorothy R. Mendenhall. 
Bulletin, 1909, No. 3, U.S. Bureau of Education, "The Daily Meals of School Children," by 

Caroline L. Hunt. 
Farmers' Bulletin 712, U.S. Department of Agriculture, "School Limches," by Caroline L. 

Himt. 
Farmers' Bulletin 717, U.S. Department of Agriculture, "Pood for Yoimg Children," by 

Caroline L. Hunt. 
Supplement No, 10 to the Public Health Reports, U.S. Public Health Service, "The Care 

of the Baby." 
Technical Education Bulletins, Teachers College, Columbia University: 

No. 3, "The Peeding of Young Children," by Mary Swartz Rose. 

No. 23, "Pood for School Boys and Girls," by Mary Swartz Rose. 

No. 31, "Simple Lessons on the Physical Care of Children," by Josephine H. Kenyon. 
The Cornell Reading-Courses for Farmers' Wives, New York State College of Agriculture: 

The Care and Feeding of Children, Parts I and II, by Flora Rose. 

Human Nutrition, Parts I and II, by Flora Rose. 
Chapin, Henry D. Theory and Practice of Infant Feeding. W. Wood & Co. 
Drummond, W. B. The Child: His Nature and Nurture, Dutton & Co. 
Furst, M. L., and Vanderbilt, S. S. Dietary for Children. National Federation of Day 

Nurseries, 105 East 22d Street, New York. 
Gibbs, Winifred S. Lessons in the Proper Feeding of the Family, New York Association 

for Improving the Condition of the Poor, 105 East 22d Street, New York. 
Grulee, Clifford G. InfatU Feeding. W. B. Saimders Co. 
Hogan, Louise E. How to Feed Children, Lippincott Co. 
Holt, L. Emmett. The Care and Feeding of Children. D. Appleton & Co. 
Kerley, Charles G. Short Talks with Young Mothers, Putnam. 

Mendenhall, D. R., and Daniels, A. L. What to Feed the Children, College of Agricul- 
ture, University of Wisconsin. 
Ramsey, W. R. Care and Feeding of Infants and Children, Lippincott. 
Rose, Mary Swartz. Feeding the Family. Macmillan. 
Sadler, W. L. and L. K. The Mother and Her Child. McClurg & Co. 
Siemens, J. M. The Prospective Mother. D. Appleton & Co. 
Starr, Louis. Hygiene of the Nursery. P. Blakiston's Son & Co. 
Terman, L. M. Hygiene of the School Child. Houghton Miflflin Co. 
Tweddell, Francis. How to Take Care of the Baby, Bobbs-Merrill Co. 



LESSONS IN COOKERY 



ERER6T REQUIREMENTS OF CHILDREN 

Children, for the following reasons, require an abundance of food: 

a. Rapid growth necessitates tissue-building foods (see pages 7-10). 

b. Incessant activity (play and work) necessitates an abundant supply 
of energy-producing foods. 

c. Loss of body heat (whidi is greater than in adults) necessitates 
energy-producing foods. 

The following table, adapted from Sherman,* states the average daily energy 
requirements of children of normal size, development, and activity: 



AGS IN TSASS 



TOTAL CALORIBS 



1-2 900-1,200 

2-6 1,200-1,500 

6-9. .. : 1,400-2,000 

10-13 1,800-2,200 

14-17 (girls) 2,200-2,600 

14-17 (boys) 2,600-3,000 

iVofet.* 

1. One must remember in using the calorie that it measures only the energy value of 
food. It is not sufficient merely to see that the child secures the needed number of 
calories. A five-year-old could secure 1,200 calories from sugar alone, but that child 
would not grow. It must have a mixed diet containing proteins, fats, sugars, starches, 
mineral salts, and vitamines. 

2. "The fuel value of children's dietaries should always be liberal in order to provide 
amply for muscular activity and for a more intense general metabolism than that of the 
adult, as well as because throughout the period of growth the food must supply a certain 
amotmt of material to be added to the body in the form of new tissue in addition to all that 
which is oxidized to support metabolism." ^ 

3. Children require more food in proportion to their size than do adults. 

To note that the average requirements for children differ from those for adults — 

a. Compare Sherman's table above with Diet for Adtdts, page 6, Note 1. 

b. Study the following table (Mary Swartz Rose, Feeding the Family ^ page 242) : 

ENERGY REQUIREMEirrS OF THE FAMILY 



MnCBBR OF FAyZLY 


Agb 


Weight, Pounds 


Protbxn Calories* 


Total Caix)ribs 


Man 


40 

37 

1 

3 

6 

9 

12 

90 


154 
125 
21 
35 
41 
56 
75 
110 


277-415 
225-338 
84-126 
140-210 
139-208 
184-276 
225-338 
150 


2,770 


Woman 


2,250 
840 


Baby 


Boy 


1,400 


Girl 


1,394 


Girl 


1,848 


Boy 


2,250 
1,500 


Woman 


Total 






1,424-2,061 


14,252 







^Allowing 10 to 15 per cent of total fuel in the form of protein, which will be sufficient to cover all nitrogen 
requirements. 

> Sherman, Chemistry of Food and Nutrition^ page 172. 
2i&f(2., page 173. 



DIET FOR CHILDREN * 7 

ESSENTIALS OF DIET FOR GROWTH IN CHILDREN 

/. Proteins, foods rich in (see Notes 1-6) : 
Milk (casein and lactalbumin) 
Eggs (ovalbumin and ovovitellin) 
Wheat (gliadin and glutenin) 
Com (zein and glutelin) 
Meat (myosin) 

//. VitamineSy foods rich in (see Note 6) : 

Fresh milk 

Seeds 

Grains 

Citrous fruits 

Tomatoes 

Tubers 



Water-soluble, chiefly 



Butter 

Cream 

Eggs ) Fat-soluble, chiefly 

Green leaves 

Beef fat 

///. Mineral elements^ foods rich in (see Notes 7, 8, 9) : 
^^ V Iron and chlorine 

Milk 

Egg yolks ^Calcium 

Oatmeal 

Beans 

Oatmeal 
Cracked wheat 

Milk 
Eggs 

IV. Carbohydrates y foods rich in \ See outline on energy requirements of 
V. Fats, foods rich in S children, page 6 

VI. Water 

Notts: 

1. Particular care is necessary in the feeding of growing children. The following foods 
are especially adapted to promoting growth in children (see Notes 2, 3, 4): 

Whole milk 

Eggs 

Whole-grain cereals (such as rolled oats, rolled wheat, or shredded wheat) 



8 • LESSONS IN COOKERY 

2. "Why is milk a good food? 

"a. It is a cheap sotirce of protein, or [tissue-] building material. The proteins 
fotmd in milk are especially good for growing children and for invalids, 
because they are easily assimilated [and are what we call complete proteins]. 
It has been estimated that, to supply protein, milk at 15 cents a quart is 
as cheap as sirloin steak at 35 cents a pound or eggs at 38 cents a dozen. 
"b. It contains two substances which yield energy, but which also have especial 
value: 
" (1) Milk-sugar is believed to be useful in checking putrefactive changes 
in the large intestine. The special value of buttermilk is now thought 
to be due to the milk-sugar in it. 
" (2) The fat of milk contains an unknown substance [vitamine] believed 
to be absolutely necessary for the growth and health of htm:ian 
beings. 
**c. It is rich in mineral matter. 

" (1) At 8 or 10 cents a quart it is the cheapest possible sotirce of lime. The 
lime in milk is in the best form for children, who must have lime for 
the proper growth of their bones. 
" (2) It is also rich in phosphorus. 

"(3) It is low in iron, but its iron is believed to be in a very available 
form. It is valuable to use when the blood is low in iron, because 
the lime is thought to increase the ability of the body to use iron 
from other sources. 
**d. It contains the two unknown substances [sometimes] called 'vitamines,' 
without which growth and health seem to be impossible. 
" (1) One of these is soluble in fat. Skim-milk contains one-half as much 
as whole milk. It is, therefore, better to use skim-milk than no milk. 
" (2) One of these is soluble in water and hence is fotmd in skim-milk as 
much as in whole milk. 

"How much milk shall be used? 

"Graham Lusk says that a family of five, consisting of father, mother, and 
three children aged from 3 to 12, shotild buy and use three quarts of milk daily 
before buying one pound of meat. 

"The minimtun allowance for a child up to 8 years or even 12 years is one 
pint daily. A quart is desirable. Adtilts may be stinted if necessary, but chil- 
dren need milk."* 

"Especially in the feeding of children shotild milk be used freely, because 
of its many advantages as a 'tissue-building' and 'growth-promoting' food. 
*A quart of milk a day for every child' is a good rule easy to remember." * 

In what ways may milk be served to children? 
Beverages (see pages 90-94) 
Cream soups (see pages 56-64) c^: - 
Desserts made on a milk basis (sbe pages 95-101) 

* Circular No. $7, Eartension Service, New Hampshire College of Agriculttire. 

* Sherman, Food Products, page 81. 



DIET FOR CHILDREN 9 

Miscellaneous dishes: 
Bread and milk 
Cereals (cooked in milk) 
Savory custards and souffles 

Creamed dishes (thin white sauce or milk poured over vegetables, etc.) 
Gravies, plain 
On cereals and in gruels 

On mild fruits (such as berries or baked apples or pears) 
(All foods in the foregoing list are especially useful in the diet of the child who does 
not like milk as a beverage.) 

3. Eggs are richer than milk in iron. Because of their richness in iron (as well as the 
nature of the fats and proteins), eggs are among the first foods to be added to the milk diet 
of a young child. Nearly all of the iron in eggs is foimd in the yolks. 

Every child should be given an egg daily. K prices make such an allowance impossible, 
the child should be given at least three eggs weeldy; in this case the diet should contain an 
increased quantity of other foods rich in iron (such as spinach served in purde, etc.). 
The following egg recipes are allowable for children 2 to 8 years of age: 
Eggs soft-cooked in the shell (either coddled or boiled) 
Soft-poached eggs 

Soft-scrambled eggs (containing little or no butter or cream) 
For children over 8 years of age omelets (if tender and not greasy) and various other 
simple egg recipes are allowable; see pages 74-80. 

Eggs cooked as follows are not easy to digest and should not be given to yoimg children: 
Fried .^ . , 

Sauted 
Hard-boiled 

4. Note the following points with regard to breakfast cereals: 

a. Cereals are among the essential foods of childhood. The whole-grain cereals 
(because richer in mineral elements, etc.) are better body-builders than 
cereals with the bran removed. Rolled oats are sometimes asserted to be 
especially valuable in the stimulation of growth. Coarse and fine hominy 
grits are very nearly pure starch; hominy, or "hulled corn," is the whole 
kernel, including the germ, and because of the germ has a higher fat, protein, 
and vitamine value than grits (hence hominy is better than hominy grits 
for use in the feeding of children). 

h. Thorough cooking of cereals is essential. This is especially true of coarse 
cereals (those containing much cellulose). 

c. Cereals should be well masticated, hence the following inducements for mas- 
tication should be offered: 

(1) Avoid (by not using too much water in the cooking) a cereal that is 
very "mushy," soft, or pasty; a cereal should be stiff enough to 
necessitate a certain amount of chewing. 

(2) Have the child eat something solid with cereals. 

d. Strain cereals for feeding very young children (infants). 

6. Protein foods are essentially composed of a combination of various amino-adds.* 

*For further discussion of amino-acids, see H. C. Sherman, Food Products, page 12; P. B. 
Hawk, Practical Physiological Chemistry, 6th ed., page 63. 



10 LESSONS IN COOKERY 

Selection of protein foods should be based upon their ultimate amino-add content, since 
some protein foods (such as gelatin) do not promote growth or do not maintain the body 
owing to a lack of the proper amino-adds. 

6. Butter substitutes, such as butterine, should not be used to any extent in children's 
diet unless plenty of whole milk or cream is given in the diet. The fat-soluble vitamine, 
so vital in the growth of children, is present in dairy butter, but it is lacking in many of the 
butter substitutes. Margarines containing considerable beef fat have a higher content of 
the fat-soluble A vitamine than those made chiefly of nut or other vegetable oil. The fat- 
soluble vitamine in butter is not destroyed by cooking (or at least only to a slight degree) 
unless the butter is browned, or heated to the smoky-hot stage.^ 

7. In the selection of foods from the standpoint of their mineral content, spedal care 
should be taken to have the add and basic elements balanced. (See Diei for Invalids,) 

8. With older children a diet selected from the following is very likely to contain enough 
mineral matter for growth: 

Milk Vegetables 

Fruits Graham bread 

Milk and some form of fruit and vegetable should be included in every meal. 

9. Note the probable results of a lack of caldum (lime) in the diet: 

Weak bones 
Weak teeth 
Caldum is indispensable for the growth of bones and teeth; poor teeth, as well as weak 
tissues in general, often result from a poor supply of milk and other foods rich in caldum. 
The condition of the second set of teeth depends very largely on the kind of food taken 
during the years immediately preceding second dentition. The following are essentials 
for the period of second dentition, namely, the tnajor period extending from the sixth year 
to the end of the thirteenth year: 

a. Plenty of milk and other foods rich in caldum (such as oatmeal, egg yolks, 
dried beans and peas, carrots, almonds, peanuts, and walnuts) 

b. Hard or fibrous foods for promoting mastication, such as: 

Tough or dry bread Educator crackers 

Zwieback Meat 

K the gums are tender dtiring the early part of the period of second dentition, 
hard foods should be avoided. 
The following are among the foods low in caldum: 

Candy Meats 

Cereals (com the lowest in caldum) Potatoes 

Com meal, new-process Rice, polished 

Flour, patent (fine wheat flour) Roots 

10. Note requisites in children's diet (most of these pertain to the diet of adults as well) : 

Regular meals 

Simple foods (good in quality, simply cooked, and easily digested) 
Plenty of food 
Mixed diet 

Thorough mastication 

Plenty of water (no ice water) (Water may be drunk at meal-time if it does not 
interfere with mastication.) 

1 Deducted in part from McCoUum and Davis, Journal of Biological Chemistry, XIX (1914), 
and Osborne and Mendel, ibid., XX (1915). 



DIET FOR CHILDREN 11 

TIME FOR THE INTRODUCTION OF VARIOUS FOODS INTO 

CHILDREN'S DIET 

THE FEEDraO OF OLDER INFANTS 

The following rules are quoted by Mrs. Max West (Infant Care, page 49) from 
the report^ of a committee of the American Medical Association: 

Unless a child has loose bowels he should be given from 1 to 3 tablespoonfuls of strained 
fruit juice once a day after he is 7 or 8 months old. 

After he is 9 months old he may be given squeezed beef juice, beef tea, or plain mutton 
or chicken broth once a day. 

When he is 10 months old he may have part of a soft egg, a small piece of crisp toast 
or zwieback, or a crust of bread to chew immediately after his feeding. 

Other solid foods should not be given diuing the first year. 

At 12 months he may take his milk undiluted, and strained cereal may be given twice 
a day. 

During the second year the child should have four meals a day. Hours: 6:00 a.m., 
10:00 A.M., 2:00 p.m., 6:00 p.m. Nothing but water should be allowed between his meals. 

At 12 months the baby should be weaned from the bottle and taught to drink nailk from 
a cup. He may then have cereals twice a day, which should be thoroughly cooked, and for 
the first two or three months they should be strained. He should have 4 cups of milk daily. 

When 15 months old he may have at first a teaspoonful, later 1 tablespoonful, of rare 
scraped beef, mutton, or chicken. 

When 18 months old he may have one-half of a mealy baked potato daily. 

When 2 years old he may have most of the fresh green vegetables when thoroughly 
cooked and finely mashed. 

The jiaice of fresh fruits may be given after 12 months. 

Cooked fruit, such as baked apple or apple sauce, should be given once a day after a 
child is 18 months old; it should at first be strained. 

Stale raw fruits are especially dangerous in the city and in the summer. 

Mrs. West, Infant Carey page 49, make^ the following statement: 

"Begin with a very small quantity of each new food, noting carefully the effect on the 
baby, and strengthening it slowly as required. For instance, begin by giving 1 teaspoonful 
of fruit juice, diluted with an equal quantity of water, and increase gradually until the 
proper amount for the given age is reached. 

"Beef juice is chiefly valuable as a stimulant. It has but little food value and is not 
to be given in the place of nourishing food but as an addition to it. Two teaspoonfuls 
diluted with an equal quantity of water may be given fifteen minutes before the midday 
feeding, beginning about the ninth month. If the baby is delicate, it may be begun as early 
as the fifth month in half the above quantity. 

"Only one new article should be added to the baby's diet at a time, and the effect on 
the baby should be carefully noted." 

^Save the Babies, prepared- for use in Baby Health Conferences for the Committee on Public- 
Health Education among Women, by Drs. L. Emmett Holt and Henry L. K. Shaw. Council 
on Health and Public Instruction, American Medical Association. 



12 LESSONS IN COOKERY 

FOODS FOR CHILDREN 

The following summary of foods to be given children from the second to the 
eighteenth year is taken from Extension Circular No. 87, New Hampshire College 
of Agriculture' and the Mechanic Arts and the United States Department of 
Agriculture cooperating: 

Second to Twelfth Year 

Milk, Three cups to one quart daily. 

Sugar. None needed in second year. Third and fourth years used for flavoring. 
From fifth on used in moderation. Candy only at end of regular meals. 

Water. Used in abundance. 

Cereals. At first, jelly made by straining well-cooked cereal. This was begun at 10 
months. At 15 months unstrained cereals used, beginning with finer ground cereals. Hot, 
cooked, for breakfast. Oatmeal especially good. 

Fruits. At first, strained orange juice. This was begun at 7 months. Other mild 
juices, juice and pulp, cooked or raw, of mild fruits next used. At 5 years, cooked fruits; 
raw fruits introduced cautiously (not bananas). From 8 years on, fresh, cooked, or dried 
fruits. 

Eggs. At first, soft cooked yolk, not more than one daily. This was begun at 10 
months. White introduced cautiously between the first and second years. At 3 years, 
one whole egg daily. From 8 years on, not more than one egg daily. 

Bread. At first, stale crust or hard cracker (begun at 10 months), changing during the 
second year to stale dry bread, zwieback, or crackers. At 2 years, dry hard bread. At 5 
years, dry bread at least twenty-foiu- hours old. 

Vegetables. At 18 months, mild vegetables strained or in soup. At 2 years, cooked, 
chopped or mashed mild vegetables. New ones introduced cautiously. At 8 years, any 
cooked vegetables. After tenth year raw vegetables. 

Dried legumes. (Beans, peas.) At 2 years, strained in soups. At 5 years, in soups 
or mashed. At 8 years, in soups, well cooked. 

Potatoes. At 2 years, baked. At 5 years, baked, boiled, creamed, or mashed. At 
8 years, various methods. 

Butter. From 2 years. Best fat for children. 

Desserts. At 2 years, simple combinations of milk, cereal, 6ggs, fruits, bread and a 
little sugar. At 5 years, add sponge cake, milk sherbets, plain ice cream. From 8 years 
on, simple cake, puddings, frozen dishes, candy at meals. 

Cocoa. At 5 years, very weak. (Use not more than J^ teaspoon cocoa to 1 cup milk.) 
At 8 years, not too strong. 

Meat. At 8 years, small quantity. 

Nuts. At 8 years, peanut butter and nut paste. 

Adolescent Child Twelve to Eighteen Yeare^ 

Simple food, easy to digest. Main part of diet, milk, cereals, eggs, vegetables, simple 
salads, and fruit. Pastry and sweets used sparingly. Tea and coffee avoided. 

iFor further data see Rose, Feeding the Family , "Food in Adolescence and Youth," pages 
162-183.— -Author's Note. 



DIET FOR CHILDREN 



13 



SEQUENCE m FEEDING: A SYNOPSIS 

This table aims to show that solid foods should be introduced very gradually 
into children's diet. There should be a definite sequence from liquids, through 
semi-solids, to solids. 



Kind of Poods 


PiBBR 

(For very young chil- 
dren*) 


A Little Pibbr or Body 
(For children somewhat 
oldert) 


Solids: Poods with Enough 
Pibbr or Body to Devel- 
op THE Powers of Masti- 
cation 
(For Btill older childrent) 


Starchy foods 


Cereal gruels mixed 
with milk 


Cereal jellies 
Unstrained cereals 


Bread ci:umbs, toasted 

Crusts 

Zwieback 

Educator crackers 

Etc. 


Fruits 


Strained fniit juices 


Fruit pulp 

Cooked fruits, mashed 


Whole fruits 


Vegetables 


Strained vegetable 
pulp mixed with 
milk or water 


Mashed (not strained) 
vegetables 


Whole vegetables 


Fats 


Rich milk (whole) 


Thin cream 
Butter 


Solid fats composed 
chiefly of butter 


Meats (if allowed; 
see Note 4) and 
eggs 


Meat broth 
Meat juice 
Albtimin water 


Scraped meat 
Coddled eggs (whole) 


Meat, finely chopped 
Boiled or poached eggs 



* Generally speaking, children 1-2 jrears of age. 
t Generally speaking, children 2-4 years of age. 



t Generally speaking, children 4-8 jrears of age. 



Notes: 

1. Most important ride in the feeding of young children: Gradually develop the digestive 
powers of children, training the digestive organs by degrees to take care of solid foods, 
including those containing the indigestible fiber, cellulose. The habit of mastication is 
not. acquired all at one time. The time for the introduction of various foods depends 
chiefly upon the state of development of the teeth. Children of one year are cutting teeth, 
hence they need something on which to bite, such as dry toast. 

A safe rule in feeding a bab]^ is to add but one new food at a time. 

The foregoing synopsis is of value in invalids' diet as well as in children's diet. Coarse 
fiber, since it irritates the digestive organs, should be avoided in the diet of very yoimg 
children and by adults of weak digestion. Hence, in feeding the youngest children, note 
the value of cooked foods, especially those in the form of pulp or juice. 

2. Fruits, vegetables, and cereals containing much coarse cellulose (skin, seeds, etc.) 
should be avoided in the diet of young children; raw fruits with skins (apples, peaches, 
etc.) should be pared or peeled before being offered in the diet. 

Fruit ptdp may be obtained either by scraping ripe, raw fruit (such as apples and 
peaches), or by mashing cooked fruit or putting it through a sieve. 



14 LESSONS IN COOKERY 

The cooking and straining of fruits, vegetables, and cereals make them more digestible; 
children frequently suffer from diarrhea if the cellulose is not softened or removed. 

Raw vegetables (celery, cabbage, radishes, onions, cucumbers, tomatoes, etc.) should 
not be given to children imder 10 years of age. 

3. The best way to feed children fats is to give them the following: 

Milk, whole 
Cream (on cereal, etc.) 
Butter 

Yolks of eggs 
In addition to the above, the following fatty foods are sometimes allowable for the older 
children: 

Bacon, fat 

Butter substitutes, simple (such as nut margarine) 
Chocolate (taken as a beverage or as a sweet) 
Oil, cod-liver 

Oils, vegetable (com, cottonseed, olive, etc.) 
Note the following points in regard to animal (meat) fats: 
a. Children are very likely to dislike them. 
5. Children do not digest them as a rule. (Animal fat is not in the form of an 

emulsion, and is not so easily digested as those fats which are in an emulsified 

form, such as the fat of milk and egg yolks.) 

4. Authorities differ in opinion as to the age at which meat should first be given children. 
Opposing opinions are stated in a and b below; it is probable that a expresses the wiser 
opinion. 

a. Some authorities advise no meat (as well as no beef juice or meat broth) for 
children under 7 or 8 years of age, provided a liberal quantity of eggs and milk 
is used in the diet. It is possible to obtain sufficient protein from eggs and 
milk. The following quotations from Mary Swartz Rose are worthy of 
notice in this connection: 

(1) "With milk freely supplied and an average of one egg a day, there 
is no call for the introduction of meat into the diet imtil after a child 
is 7 years old, and, on the other hand, there are several good reasons 
for withholding it dtiring these early days."^ 

(2) "Excepting the point in regard to mastication, what is true of meat 
is true of beef juice. Its use is best restricted to babies who for some 
reason cannot have an adequate supply of milk, egg yolk, and fruit 
juice, or who are sick enough to need a stimulant. Meat broths are 
of course merely stimulating, and their only possible virtue in the 
ordinary child's dietary is to induce the eating of cereals or vegetables 
which may be cooked in them, and this can usually be accomplished 
in some other way. They almost inevitably limit the amount of milk 
taken, and therefore should be reserved till the child is older, his need 
of materials for growth less pronounced, and his total capacity for food 
greater."* 

1 Mary Swartz Rose, Feeding the Family, page 139. 
2/Wd., page 140. 



DIET FOR CHILDREN 15 

(3) "iCnowing that milk and ^gg yolk, which are no trouble to prepare, 
are better for little children than beef juice, shall we not save ourselves 
labor and often expense?"^ 
h. Other authorities advise the use of the following (in addition to eggs and milk) 
in the diet of yoimg children: 

(1) Beef juice (see recipe, page 39) 

(2) Meat broth (see recipe, page 38) 

(3) The more easily digested meats and fish (see recipes, pages 81-86), 
such as: 

Beef (broiled, roasted, or boiled) 

Lamb chops 

Chicken (especially the light meat) 

Fish of delicate texture and not fat, such as whitefish 
It is generally agreed that beef, lamb, and chicken as listed above are 
the first solid meats to be given children, no matter what the opinion 
may be as to the age when meat shall first be given. 
All meat should be free from bone, gristle, skin, and fat, and should 
be finely minced. 

c. The following are the chief arguments against the use of meat for yoimg 
children: 

(1) Meat seems to be more subject to putrefaction in the intestines than 
any other protein food. 

(2) Meat contains stimulating substances not needed by children. (Meat 
broth and beef juice, as well as solid meats, contain stimulating sub- 
stances.) 

(3) Meat (because so high in flavor) is likely to take away the appetite 
for milk and certain other mild-tasting foods which are essential to 
growth. 

d. The following are the chief advantages of meat in the diet of young children: 

(1) It is a useful source of iron. 

(2) It helps to develop the power of mastication. 

Those opposed to the use of meat for young children offset the foregoing 
advantages of meat by substituting the following foods for meat: 
Egg yolks and green vegetables (as sources of iron) 
Dry breadstuffs (for training in mastication) 
5. Sequence in flavors is essential in children's diet: 

a. Mild-flavored foods only should be given to very young children. 
h. Stronger-flavored foods, such as certain vegetables, may gradually be intro- 
duced into the diet. 
Very strong flavorings (condiments, seasonings, etc.) should be avoided at all times; 
cloves and pepper often seem especially objectionable. Paprika, mild as it is, should be 
avoided in the diet of young children. 

Normal children possess a keener relish for mild foods (milk, cereals, bread and butter, 
etc.) than do adults, hence beware of dulling this highly developed sense of taste in children 
by giving them foods too strongly flavored. 
i/Wi., page 195. 



16 LESSONS IN COOKERY 

POODS OBJECTIONABLE IN CHILDREN'S DIET 

The following foods are usually objectionable in children's diet: 

Breadstuffs, soggy or heavy, such as (see Note 3) : 
Breads, rolls, and biscuits 
Cakes 
Dumplings 
Griddlecakes 
Puddings (steamed puddings, etc.) 

Cheese, except cottage cheese (see Note 1) 

Fruits, overripe (peaches, etc.) 

Fruits, underripe (such as bananas, eaten raw) 

Lobsters and crabs 

Milk in combination with strongly acid foods (such as tomatoes, strawberries, or 

pltims) 
Nuts (see Note 1) 
Pickles (vinegar is objectionable) 
Vegetables, raw (see page 14, Note 2) 
Foods containing many nuts or dried or candied fruits, such as: 

Fruit cake 
Nesselrode pudding 

Foods containing much sugar, especially if they are eaten in excess (see Note 4), 
such as: 

Cakes (such as those made with much filling or icing) 

Candies 

Cereals served with excess sugar 

Pie fillings 

Preserves and some canned fruits 

Puddings, rich 

Sauces, pudding 

Sirups 

Foods containing much fat (especially overheated fat), such as: 
Cakes, rich 

Fish containing much oil (mackerel, salmon, etc. ; see page 86, Note 3) 
Fried foods (doughnuts, potatoes, meats, etc.) 
Gravies, meat (except platter gravy) 
Meats, such as: 

Duck 

Goose 

Pork (except bacon, with older children) 

Sausage 
Pastries (pies, etc.) 
Puddings, rich 

Salads, rich (such as meat or fish salads containing mayonnaise) 
Sauces for puddings and vegetables 



DIET FOR CHILDREN 17 

Foods containing many condiments and high seasonings (spice, pepper, herbs, 
etc.)> such as: 

Deviled meats and fish 

Pickled meats and fish 

Rich sauces and gravies for meat and fish 

Meat and fish pastes (for sandwich fillings, etc.) 

Meat and fish forcemeats 

Stuffings for meat, poultry, and fish 

Canap^ 

Thousand-island salad dressing 
Poods containing much flavoring, coloring, or harmful preservative material, 
such as: 

Some canned fruits and jellies 

Some catsups 

Some orangeades 

Impure and highly colored candy 

Naies: 

1. Nearly all, if not all, the foods in the foregoing list should be forbidden children. 
However, certain foods (mild cheese, nuts, unstrained green com, etc.), not digestible for 
young children, are often permissible with older children. See page 15, Note 4, c, <f, for 
arguments against and for the use of meat in the diet of young children. 

All foods difficult of digestion, such as all rich or heavy foods (see Note 6), should be 
forbidden children. 

2. The foregoing synopsis applies to invalid adults as well as to children. 

3. Breadstuffs, if hot, are very likely to be soggy. Hot soggy foods (breadstuffs, etc.) 
are difficult to digest, especially if they are poorly masticated. Why? 

Children shoidd not be given very fresh bread, rolls, etc., even if these foods are cold. 

4. Note reasons why candies and other sweets in excess, including excess £fugar served 
on cereals, are harmful to children (and adults): 

o. Sugar satisfies the appetite and so destroys the desire for other foods, espe- 
cially when it is eaten between meals. 

h. Sugar as such is likely to irritate the lining of the stomach unless it is taken 
in a diluted form. 

c. Sugar may ferment during the process of digestion, and thus irritate the 
digestive organs. 

d. Candy and some other sweets are lacking in the mineral salts so essential in 
children's diet. Pure sugar is lacking in mineral salts, hence it is wiser for 
children to secure most of their sugar from mUk and sweet fruUs than from 
candy, because the milk and fruits contain mineral salts. 

e. Sugar in excess often results in making too high the daily total percentage 
of carbohydrates in the diet. 

/. Sugar in excess may lead to diabetic tendencies. 
For further arguments against the use of excess sugar on cereals, see page 55, Note 6. 

5. Stimulating beverages are forbidden children, but since most of them are not foodsy 
they are not listed in this synopsis; see page 94, Note 3 

2 



18 LESSONS IN COOKERY 

6. By rich foods are meant those foods which contain much of one or more of the fol- 
lowing: 

Fat 

Fruit, dried or preserved 
Seasoning and flavoring 
Sugar or sirup 

Food combinations for children (and invalids) should always be simple, because the 
more complex the mixtiu-e of fat, carbohydrate, and protein, the longer and more difficult 
is the process of digestion. Rich pies, cakes, and puddings are so put together as to make 
them very difficult of digestion. All complex made dishes, such as stuffed peppers, should 
be avoided in children's diet. 



PART II 

DIET FOR THE EXPECTANT MOTHER 



"If then she [the expectant mother] lives in such a manner as 
to establish and conserve her own health, taking plenty of sleep 
and exercise, eating sensibly of simple food, and in every way 
striving to take the best possible care of her own body, so that the 
digestive, assimilative, and excretory functions are carried on in 
the highest degree of efficiency, she can be quite sure that the 
child will be able thereby to build up for himself a sotmd and normal 
body and brain." — ^West, Prenatal Care, page 20. 



ESSENTIALS IN THE DIET OF THE EXPECTANT MOTHER 

The expectant mother, probably more than the average person, should lay 
stress upon each of the so-called essentials in the normal adult's diet. These are 
as follows: 

Building materials, such as: 

Nitrogen (found in protein foods chiefly) 
Iron 

Calcium, or lime 
Phosphorus 
Energy foods (chiefly fats and carbohydrates) 
Balance of acid and basic elements 
Bulk (chiefly cellulose and water) 
Vitamines or food hormones 
Appetizers, or so-called food relishes 

1. Quantity and general character of the food: 

" It should not be assumed that the diet of a pregnant woman should be largely increased, 
. or that her needs require a diet unusual in kind. An ordinary mixed diet that is adapted 
to sustain a woman doing moderate work is certainly suf&cient for the gravid mother. The 
diet should be judiciously selected, however. The extensive use of such foods as pastry, 
cakes, sweets, and all similar materials, largely carbohydrate with a marked deficiency in 
protein and the ash elements, should be avoided. 

"A simple diet made of meats, milk, and eggs in moderate proportions, and grain, vege- 
table, and fruit preparations which carry as nearly as possible the unmodified composition 
of the natural products, will be found sufficient for all the needs of the prospective mother. 

"If a woman reasonably satisfies a normal appetite from food selected as indicated 
above, all real requirements will be met. The caution is that an appetite abnormal in its 
desires should be controlled and that both excessive eating and overindulgence in foods 
markedly deficient in the ash elements and protein be kept in check J* ' 

"The food of a woman diuing pregnancy need not differ materially from that to which 
she has been accustomed, provided that her diet previously has been chosen with due regard 
to its suitability. Any food or drink which causes distress, or even discomfort because of 
indigestion, should be avoided at all times, but with this exception a pregnant woman may 
safely follow the dictates of her appetite as to the choice of her food. 

"There are, however, certain general principles that she shoidd take into consideration. 
One of these is that the excretory organs — the bowels, the kidneys, and the skin — should 
be kept in the best possible condition, because during pregnancy the mother must get rid 
of not only her own waste products but also those of the unborn child. It will be found, 
therefore, that a light, laxative diet, which is at the same time satisfying and nutritious, 
will tend to keep her in health. An ideal diet includes a relatively large proportion of 

» Jordan, Principles of Nutrition, pages 265-266. 

21 



22 LESSONS IN COOKERY 

liquids, a small proportion of meats, and a correspondingly generous proportion of fresh 
fruits and vegetables. Most physicians prefer that meat should not be eaten of tener than 
onoe a day, but allow a wide latitude in the choice of other foods. 

"It is well to tmderstand that the accumulation of waste products in the system is the 
cause of various minor ailments of pregnancy, as well as of some of the more serious com- 
plications. Since liquids help the bowels, kidneys, and skin to throw off these waste prod- 
ucts, and therefore do away with some of the sources of danger at this time, it is important 
that liquids should form a large part of the diet of every pregnant woman. The proper 
amotmt to be taken in 24 hours varies in different cases, but at least 2 quarts of liquid are 
needed, and sometimes 3 quarts. Much of this should be in the form of water. Specifically, 
pregnant women will usually need to drink from four to eight glasses a day. Other liquid 
foods are cocoa and chocolate, soups and broths, buttermilk and sweet milk. The last 
named is especially valuable in the diet of pregnancy, since milk not only contains all the 
elements of a perfect food, but is valuable for stimulating the kidneys to healthful action. 
Also if the habit of drinking milk is estabhshed during pregnancy, it will be an excellent 
preparation for maternal nursing. If milk has a tendency to constipate, as is sometimes 
the case, the persistent use of ... . laxative diet .... will probably do away with this 
objection. Every effort should be made to cultivate the taste for milk, for there is no other 
one food so indispensable to the mother of a nursing baby. 

''If one is accustomed to the daily use of tea and coffee it is unnecessary to stop their 
use altogether, but an effort should be made to reduce the amoimt taken. This rule applies 
with even greater force to all alcoholic drinks, since there is evidence to show that alcohol 
may enter the fetal system unchanged by its passage through the maternal blood, and thus 
injure the child." * 

2. Reason why the diet of the mother should be well regulated: 
"The baby is bom with bones and muscles, blood vessels and nerves; with a supply of 
iron stored in its body sufficient to make good for the first year the deficiency of iron in 
milk. All the materials tised for this growth and for storing are drawn from the blood 
stream of the mother."* 



^Mrs. Max We^, PrenaUd Care, pages 8-9, Care of Children Series No. 1, Children's 
Bureau, U.S. Department of Labor. 

2 Flora Rose, The Care and Feeding of Children, Part I (Cornell Reading-Courses). 



PART III 

DIET FOR THE YOUNGER INFANT 
(BIRTH TO ONE YEAR OP AGE) 



Milk has no substitute in the diet of the child. — Dorothy R. 
Mendenhall, Milk, the Indispensable Food for Children^ page 6, 
Care of Children Series No. 4, Children's Bureau, U.S. Depart- 
ment of Labor. 



NATURAL FEEDING OF YOUNG INFANTS 

If circtunstances permit, it is the moral duty of every mother to nurse her 
baby ; such care is due the child. " The majority of mothers can nurse their babies, 
at least in part, if they have suitable care and advice." * 

Note reasons why the majority of mothers should nurse their babiies: 

a. "The death rate among artificially fed babies is seven to ten times 

as great as among those fed from the breast." * 
6. "Breast-fed babies have a greater possibility of developing into 

healthy childhood than artificially fed ones."' 
c. " One-third of the babies die before the end of the third year, and 85 per 
cent of these are bottle-fed."* 
Reasons for substituting cows' milk for mothers' milk are as follows : 
Milk poor in quality 
Milk insufficient in quantity 
Milk which does not agree with the child 
Weak, frail, or sickly mother 

Mother with a contagious disease (such as scarlet fever or diphtheria) 
Mother with a serious disease of heart or kidneys 
Poor family history on mother's side (tuberculosis, epilepsy, and insan- 
ity make nursing prohibitive) 

Nale: 

Diet for the nursing mother: 

"A nursing mother should have a light, abundant, and appetizing diet, and such a one 
as causes her no indigestion. Disturbances in the digestive tract of the mother are quickly 
reflected in the baby's condition, and therefore the mother should refrain from eating or 
drinking those things which she knows from experience she cannot digest. As a rule, 
indigestion in the mother, which shows itself in constipation, eructations of gas, headache, 
diarrhea, and the like, is caused by such foods as heavy puddings or underdone pastry; 
doughnuts; fried food soaked in fat; made dishes, such as croquettes and fritters; pickles, 
mincemeat, baked beans, pork and cabbage, and other heavy or poorly cooked foods; but 
people differ greatly in their power of digestion, and what will suit one person may upset 
the next. Overeating may be a cause of indigestion. 

"A mixed diet of such digestible and nutritious foods as are readily available is desirable 
for the nursing mother. All foods are milk-making foods. The foods selected will differ 

^Mrs. Max West, Infant Care, Care of Children Series No. 2, Children's Bureau, U.S. Depart- 
ment of Labor. 

2 Flora Rose, The Care and Feeding of Children (Cornell Reading-Courses). 

^Ibid. 

^Ihid. 

25 



26 LESSONS IN COOKERY 

widely according to circumstances, but will usually include vegetables, ripe fruits, meat, 
poultry and fish, with oysters and the like, eggs, milk, cheese, farinaceous foods of all kinds, 
cereals, flour, meals, etc., breads, especially graham, whole wheat, com meal, and bran, 
and simple desserts. Occasionally acid fruits, vegetables, and spices eaten by the mother 
may cause some disturbance in the baby, and in such cases they should be avoided. 

"Constipation is to be most carefully avoided, by eating bran bread and other laxative 
foods. Drugs should be taken as little as possible, and only on the doctor's advice. Tea 
and coffee may be taken in moderation, not more than one cup of each a day. Alcoholic 
drinks of all sorts are better avoided. One quart of milk should be taken each day. Six 
to eight glasses of good drinking water a day are required, one or two of which should be 
taken on rising to encourage the action of the bowels."^ 



iMrs. Max West, Infant Care, pages 33-34, Care of Children Series No. 2, Children's 
Btireau, U.S. Department of Labor. 



ARTIFICIAL FEEDING OF YOUNG INFANTS 

All the material on this subject (pages 27 to 30) is taken from Mrs. Max West, Infant 
Care, Care of Children Series No. 2, Children's Bureau, U.S. Department of Labor, and 
from the report of a committee of the American Medical Association (as quoted in Infant 
Care), For further suggestions see L. Emmett Holt, The Care and Feeding of Children, 

GENERAL NOTES 

"Leading authorities differ so widely on various points connected with this subject 
that no directions can be given which will meet with general agreement. A few of the 
fundamental points are given here, but whenever possible the mother should confer with 
a good doctor regarding an artificially fed infant. 

"The only proper artificial food is cows' milk, suitably modified to suit the child's age 
and development. 

"The term 'artificial feeding' refers, in common acceptance, ^o the method of feeding 
which must be employed when a baby is, for any reason, denied breast milk. 

^^ Fresh ayws' milk. Wide experience has shown that fresh cows' milk is the best sub- 
stitute for breast milk. This milk should be the piurest and cleanest possible ; it should be the 
product of a tuberculin-tested herd, one that is healthy, well fed, properly housed and cared 
for, and milked by clean milkers, into sterilized utensils. The milk shoidd be bottled and 
cooled at the dairy and delivered to the consumer in sealed bottles. The milk commonly 
sold from open cans, known as * loose' or 'dipped' milk, shovild never be given to a baby. 

"Certified milk. In certain places it is possible to obtain what is known as 'certified' 
milk, which is fresh, clean, pure, normal milk of uniform composition and highest quality 
obtained from healthy cows and produced and handled tmder the supervision of a medical 
milk commission, with special sanitary precautions; 

" Heating or cooking milk. When certified milk cannot be had, or some other milk 
known to be clean, it is safer to heat that which is used. 

** Breed of cows. Authorities reconmiend the herd milk of Holstein or ordinary grade 
cows for infant feeding, as such milk has a more nearly proper percentage of fat than others. 
If one is obliged to use Guernsey cows, some part of the fat should be removed before making 
up the feedings." 

CHOICE OF UTENSILS 

"Enameled ware or aluminum utensils are the safest kind to use, since they are most 
readily kept clean. Th^y should be used exclusively for this purpose. The following 
articles will be foimd convenient: 

As many nursing bottles as there are A 2-quart pitcher 

feedings in one day A pail or kettle for pasteurizing the milk 

A nipple for each bottle and sterilizing the utensils 

A new clean cork stopper for each bottle A fork • 
A bottle brush A tablespoon 

A graduated measuring glass A funnel 

A long-handled spoon for stirring food 

27 



28 LESSONS IN COOKERY 

*'Boltles. The best nursing bottle is the one which affords the least harbor for germs. 
An 8-ounce cylindrical bottle having the scale in ounces blown in the side is most convenient, 
as it fits readily into the ice box and the pasteurizer. Such a bottle should have a short 
neck which slopes gradually into the shoulder. It is difficult, if not impossible, to clean a 
long-necked bottle having a sharp angle below. It shoidd be possible to reach every 
part of the inside with the bottle brush. New bottles should be annealed by placing them 
on the stove in a dishpan of cold water and leaving them to boil for 20 minutes. Allow them 
to stay in the water until it is cold. Bottles thus treated will not readily break when filled 
with boiling water or when the food is being cooked in them. 

** Nipples. A conical nipple is best, since it can be readily turned inside out to be 
cleaned. Nipples attached to long rubber tubes should never be used, as it is impossible 
to clean them. They are so dangerous to infant health and life that the sale of them ought 
to be prohibited by law. The hole in the nipple should be just large enough so that when 
the filled bottle is held upside down the milk drops rapidly. If the hole is large enough 
so that the milk nms in a stream, the baby will take his food too fast." 

CARE OF UTENSILS 

"Everything that is to be tised in the preparation of the baby's food, including the hands 
and clothing of the mother or nurse, must be absolutely clean. To dean the utensils they 
should be boiled in the large kettle for 15 minutes just before using. 

" Care of bottles. Each bottle should be emptied as soon as the baby has finished nurs- 
ing, then rinsed with cold water and left standing filled with water tmtil the bottles for one 
day's feedings have all been used. At a convenient time, scrub all the bottles with hot 
soapsuds, using the bottle brush over every part of the inside. Then rinse them thoroughly 
through several waters and put them in a kettle of water over the fire. When the water 
has boiled for 15 minutes the bottles will be sterilized. 

*'Care of nipples. Nipples need special care. If allowed to soak in water when not 
in use the rubber quickly becomes spongy and disintegrates, the hole grows larger and 
larger, and the nipple is soon unfit for use. 

"Immediately after the feeding remove the nipple and rinse with cold or warm (not 
hot) water. Rub the outside with a little common salt to remove the milk, turn the nipple 
inside out, rinse and rub with salt; rinse again and boil for five minutes. The nipple will 
dry at once when removed from the boiling water. Place in a dry glass jar which has been 
boiled and screw the cover on tight. Keep from the light. The nipples should be rinsed 
in boiling water just before using." 

INGREDIENTS FOR MODIFIED MILK 

The following directions for feeding the baby have been prepared by the com- 
mittee of the American Medical Association referred to in the footnote on page 11 : 

"Beginning on the third day, the average baby should be given 3 oimces of milk daily, 
diluted with 7 oimces of water. To this should be added 1 tablespoonful of limewater and 
2 level teaspoonfuls of sugar. This should be given in seven feedings. 

"At 1 week the average child requires 5 oimces of milk daily, which should be diluted 
with 10 ounces of water. To this should be added IJ^ even tablespoonfuls of sugar and 
1 ounce of limewater. This should be given in seven feedings. The milk should be 
increased by one-half ounce about every four days. The water should be increased by 
one-half ounce every eight dajrs. 



DIET FOR CHILDREN 29 

"At 3 months the average child requires 16 ounces of milk daily, which should be diluted 
with 16 oimces of water. To this should be added 3 tablespoonfuls of sugar and 2 ounces 
of limewater. This should be given in six feedings. The milk should be increased by one- 
half ounce every six dajrs. The water should be reduced by one-half ounce about every 
two weeks. 

"At 6 months the average child requires 24 oimces of milk daily, which should be diluted 
with 12 oimces of water. To this should be added 2 ounces of limewater and 3 even table- 
spoonfuls of sugar. This should be givefti in five feedings. The amount of milk should be 
increased by one-half ounce every week. The milk should be increased only if the child is 
hungry and digesting his food well. It should not be increased unless he is hungry, nor if 
he is sujffering from indigestion even though he seems hungry. 

"At 9 months the average child requires 30 ounces of milk daily, which should be diluted 
with 10 ounces of water. To this should be added 2 even tablespoonfuls of sugar and 2 
ounces of limewater. This should be given in five feedings. The sugar added may be milk 
sugar or if this cannot be obtained cane (granulated) sugar or maltose (malt sugar). At 
first plain water should be used to dilute the milk. 

"At 3 months, sometimes earlier, a weak barley water may be used in the place of plain 
water; it is made of one-half level tablespoonful of barley flour to 16 ounces of water and 
cooked for 20 minutes. 

"At 6 months the barley flour may be increased to 13^ even tablespoonfuls cooked in 
the 12 ounces of water. 

"At 9 months the barley flour may be increased to 3 level tablespoonfuls cooked in the 
8 ounces of water." 

1. "Sugar is added to the food, not to sweeten it, but to furnish a necessary foodstuff. 
Physicians differ as to the best sugar for use in infant feeding. Malt sugar gives very good 
results, and several preparations which contain dextrin as well as maltose are on the market, 
but are expensive. Milk sugar is also expensive, and some physicians believe that it has 
a greater tendency to upset the baby. Cane sugar is the cheapest form of sugar, and many 
babies seem to digest it very well."* 

2. Whey and barley or oatmeal gruel ^ are sometimes added in modifjring milk for 
babies. (Water, limewater, sugar, and barley water are the additions used in the fore- 
going directions.) — Author's Note. 

Modified Milk' 

Method: 

1. Remove the milk bottle from the refrigerator, rinse it in boiled water, and 
wipe the top of bottle with a clean towel. 

2. Remove the paper cap with a fork which has just been boiled. 

3. Pour out enough milk for the day's feedings, measuring the quantity in the 
glass graduate, and empty it into the pitcher. 

4. Measure the required quantity of water (using cold boiled water) in the 
same way and add it to the milk. 

1 Mrs. Max West, Infant Care, page 42. 

2 See Diet for Invalids, "Foods Yielding an Add or Alkaline Ash in the Body," Notes 3 and 4. 
« This method for modified milk and the two notes are adapted from Mrs. Max West, Infant 

Care, pages 46-47. 



30 LESSONS IN COOKERY 

6. Measure sugar and limewater; add these to milk and water and stir well. 

6. Take as many bottles as there are to be feedings in 24 hr., and fill them 
exactly to the proper depth according to the scale blown in the bottle. If the 
materials have been carefully measured, the bottles will be filled to equal depth. 

7. Close with new, clean bottle corks ^ in preference to wads of cotton. 

8. Pasteurize or sterilize the feedings thus prepared in accordance with the 
directions given in Notes 1 and 2. 

Notes: 

1. Pasteurizing: 

a. Heat the milk to 145® F. and hold it at this temperature for 30 min. 

b. Cool milk rapidly to 50** F. 

The use of one of the excellent pasteurizers and sterilizers in the market greatly sim- 
plifies this part of the work, but satisfactory results can be attained by the use of an ordi- 
nary pail or kettle. A convenient method for home pasteurizing is as follows: 

a. Place 4 qt. water ou the stove in a kettle. 

b. When the water is boiling hard, remove the kettle from the stove to a table 
and allow it to stand uncovered for 10 min. 

c. Place the filled and loosely corked bottles in the water, cover the kettle, and 
allow them to stand covered for }4 hr. 

d. Remove the bottles, and cool them rapidly under nmning water. Keep 
bottles in the refrigerator until needed. Caution: Do not imcork a bottle 
from the time it is first closed tmtil the baby is to be fed. 

2. Boilingy or sterilizing: 

Method a: 

(1) Fill the bottles and stand them in a kettle of water over the fire. 

(2) Heat the milk 45 min. after the water begins to boil. 
Method b: 

(1) Pour milk into a clean saucepan, and boil it 3 min. 

(2) Pour milk into sterilized bottles. 

(3) Cool bottles rapidly In running water. 

PROPRIETARY, OR PATENT, INFANT FOODS 

"These foods may be classified into those made upon a milk basis and those made upon 
a cerecd basis. Or they may be grouped so as to show which are intended to be added to 
fresh cows* milk after they have been mixed with water ^ and which are intended to be mixed 
only with water. They might also be divided according to their composition, showing 
which are high in sugar or in insoluble starch or deficient in fats The general con- 
sensus of opinion among authorities seems to be that one or another of these foods may 
be temporarily used when fresh cows' milk is not available for any reason, as in traveling, 
or in the Tropics, but that their continued and exclusive use is to be condemned. All are 
expensive, and many of them do not give the baby the required food elements nor the 
proper proportions of these elements, while the use of some of them is known to be followed 
by various forms of illness. "^ 

1 Sterilized rubber caps may be snapped over corks, thus reducing the possibility of the 
entrance of dirt or germs into milk. Corks are likely not to fit perfectly. — Author's Note, 

2 Mrs. Max West, Infant Care, page 48, 



PART IV 

DIET FOR THE OLDER INFANT 
(ONE TO TWO YEARS OF AGE) 



SUGGESTIONS FOR A LESSON 

Liquids and Semi-solid Poods 

1. Preparation by each pupil (by assignment) of two or more of the following: 
Pruit juice and pulp 
Starchy gruel and jelly 
Coddled egg 
Albumin water 
Meat broth 
Beef juice 
Sterile drinking water 



SUGGESTIONS FOR A DAT'S MEALS 

(Diet for the infant one to two years of age) 

6:00 a.m. Warm milk 

8:00 A.M. 1-3 tb. strained jtiice or strained pulp of mild fruits, such as: 

Sweet-orange juice (especially desirable; usually first fruit given) 
Prune juice or pulp 
Pineapple or fresh peach juice 

Cooked apple or pear juice or pulp (from baked or stewed fruit) 
Sweet-tomato juice ^ 
10 :00 A.M. Cereal, 2-3 tb. 

Warm milk to drink 

Dry breadstuff, 1-2 slices (such as stale, dry bread, dry toast, or 
zwieback, a variety of toast) 
2 : 00 P.M. 1 yolk of egg 

Dry breadstuff, 1-2 slices 

Mild juicy vegetable (1-3 t. strained juice and strained pulp; see 
Note 2, vegetables), such as: 
Beets or carrots, very young 
Peas, yotmg green 
Spinach 
Warm milk to drink 
5:30 p.m. Cereal, 2-3 tb. 

Stale bread, 1-2 slices 
Warm milk to drink 

Notes: 

1. This diet deals with infant feeding during the second year, that is, with a child just 
beyond the nursing period. For a study of the caloric value and cost of foods for a child 
one and one-half to two years old, see Mary Swartz Rose, Feeding the Family , pages 126-127. 

2. Note the following points in regard to the feeding of a child during its second year: 

Cereal (well-cooked): Serve as follows: 

a. Strained gruels and jellies (see recipes, pages 36-37) for children during 

the first two or three months of the second year 

b. Unstrained cereals for the oldtr children: 

At first, the fine cereals (such as farina) 
Later, coarser cereals (such as rolled oats) 
Serve with cereal a little salt and 1-4 tb. top milk or thin cream, but no sugar. 

1 Tomato juice, like orange juice, is a valuable source of antiscorbutic vitamine. Tomatoes 
(raw, canned, or dried), since available and cheap, are being substituted for oranges to quite 
an extent in children's feeding. Hess and Unger (American Journal of Diseases of Children^ 
XVII [April, 1919], 221) found tomatoes (canned) strained as good for infants as orange juice. 

3 33 



34 LESSONS IN COOKERY 

Breadstuffs (dry) : The exact time for the introduction of these depends upon 

the state of development of the teeth. 
Egg yolk: Serve not more than one yolk daily; mix it with milk or heat it 

slightly. Occasionally, a whole egg may be served. Egg yolk is a valuable 

source of iron, calcium, and phosphorus. 
Milk: ^-1 qt., served each day as follows, is the basis of the diet: 

a. Warm beverage: j^-1 c. milk served at each of the five feedings listed 
except the one at 8:00 a.m. 

5^-1 c. milk sometimes served at 10:00 p.m. 

b. Some milk served on the cereal 

Orange juice (fresh uncooked): This is given to infants for four reasons: 

a. To prevent constipation 

b. To furnish vitamines (and so to prevent infantile scurvy) 

c. To maintain balance of alkali and acid in the body (and so to prevent 

acidosis) 

d. To furnish calcium for bones and teeth (a very minor reason) 

In general, the first three reasons apply also to other fruit juices; for example, 
prune juice is laxative. Certain fruit juices, such as prune, are rich in iron. 

It is asserted that an infusion of 1 oz. white inner skin of orange to 2 oz. 
water is just as rich in vitamines and as good for children as orange juice; and 
it is certain that it is much cheaper. Hess says: "Orange peels are washed, 
grated, and added to twice their volume of boiling water. This is allowed to 
stand over night, then strained, and is ready for use. Sugar is added when 
necessary to make it palatable."^ 

Vegetables (strained): These are chiefly given after a child is a year and a half 
old. Spinach, because of its iron content, is the best vegetable to give first. 
Serve the vegetables with salt, or salt and a little cream. Sometimes a vege- 
table may be made into a milk soup in which no fat and only a little flour are 
used. 
Water (sterile): This is essential in infant feeding. Water, slightly warmed, 
should be offered freely between meals. 

"The baby needs plenty of cool, imsweetened water to drink. It is safe to 

boil all the drinking water for a baby, which should be given to a young baby 

lukewarm, never ice-cold. Never put sugar or anything else in it. Offer it to 

the baby between feedings; in summer especially he needs to drink it frequently. 

Fretful babies, especially those cutting teeth, are often quieted by a cool drink." ^ 

The use of water in infant feeding "is a feature that is too frequently imder- 

estimated. Many a child's suffering has been relieved by a few teaspoonfuls 

of boiled water that has been cooled (not iced), and given at frequent intervals 

during a hot day. This should be the rule, not the exception, from birth." * 

3. The dietaries given on page 35 are taken from The Care and Feeding of Children 

(Cornell Reading-Courses), by Flora Rose. 

iHess, Journal of the American Medical Association, Vol. LXXI (1018). 

2 Mrs. Max West, Infant Care, page 49. 

> Louise £. Hogan, How to Feed Children, page 122. 



DIET FOR CHILDREN 35 

Dietary from 12th to 18th Month 

6:00-7:00 a.m. Warm milk mixed with a little thick cereal gruel or cereal jelly 

or 
A little lightly cooked egg mixed with stale crumbs, and a glass of warm 
milk 
9 : 00-10 :00 a.m. Glass warm milk 

1 :00- 2:00 p.m. A lightly cooked egg mixed with stale crumbs, glass of warm milk 

or 
Tablespoonful of thoroughly mashed potato with meat juice, glass of 
warm mW 
Midway between 
meals One or two tablespoonfuls orange juice or prime juice (This meal may 

be given at nine o'clock in the morning instead of at this time.) 
6:00-6:00 p.m. Glass warm milk with cereal jelly 

Dietary from 18th to 24th Month 

6:00-7:00 A.M. Warm milk with lightly buttered bread 

or 
Cereal with thin cream, glass of warm milk 

or 
Lightly cooked egg, lightly buttered bread, glass of warm milk 
10:00 A.M. Glass of milk with slice of bread 

1:00-2:00 p.m. Mashed potato with dish gravy, bread and milk, very small serving 
baked apple or prune pulp 

or 
Lightly cooked e^^ bread and milk, small serving baked apple or prune 

or 
Mashed spinach, carrots, or similar vegetable, bread and milk, small 
serving very simple jimket or rice pudding or similar simple dessert 
Midway between 
meals Tablespoonful orange juice, a scraped apple 

5:00-6:00 P.M. Bread and milk, or milk toast 

4. The following list (taken from "The Care of Young Children," Journal of Home 
Economics^ June, 1917) shows the day's meals for a child in his second year: • 
7:00 A.M. Milk (quart should be used during the twenty-four hours) 

Zwieback, toast, or dried bread 
9 : 00 A.M. Orange juice 
10:00 A.M. Cereal (well cooked); cup of milk 

2:00 P.M. Broth; meat (about 1 tablespoonftd scraped or minced), or a soft boiled or 
coddled egg; vegetable (such as spinach or tender green beans, strained 
after cooking) ; baked apple, or prune pulp 
6:00 P.M. Cereal; milk; toast or bread 
10:00 P.M. Milk > (may be omitted) 

^Beverages taken late at night by young children usually cause restlessness.— Author's 
Note. 



UQUIDS AND SEMI-SOLID FOODS 

FRUIT JUICE AND PULP 

The strained juice and strained pulp of fruits cooked as follows may be used in 
infant feeding: 

Stewed Prunes 

Method: 

1. Wash prunes in several waters, and soak them over night. 

2. Simmer prunes in this same water until they are plump and tender. 

NoU: 

A very little sugar may be added, but in infant feeding it is better not to add sugar, 
since the fruit itself contains sufficient sugar. 

Stewed Apples 
Method: 

1. Boil apples tmtil they are tender, then press them through a sieve. 

2. Add a very little sugar, if any. 

Baked Apple 
Method: 

1. Pare and core an apple. 

2. Add l-A tb. cold water, depending on the size of the apple. 

3. Sprinkle apple with a very little sugar, cover tight, and bake in a moderate 
oven until it is tender. 

STARCHY GRUELS AND JELLIES 

The starchy gruels and jellies include "farinaceous substaaces, such as barley, oatmeal, 
arrowroot, farina, rice, wheat and bread, preferably in the form of water gruels and jellies." i 
The three grades of starchy food, named in sequence according to thickness, are: 

Water (such as barley or rice water) 

Gruel 

Jelly 

Rolled-Oats Grael or Jelly 

Ingredients: 

yi c. rolled oats 



Itb. 

Ic. 

dash 



2 c. boiling water 
Ht.salt 

* Cotton, Care of Children, oage 109, Library of Home Economics. 

36 



DIET FOR CHILDREN 37 

Method: 

1. Slowly add rolled oats to boiling salted water, cook mixture 3 hr. in a 
double boiler, then strain it through a wire sieve. 

2. Thin the strained cereal with boiling water to desired consistency. 



Barley Water 



Ingredients: 
It. 
IJ^t. 
Ic. 

dash 



2 t. barley flour 

3 t. cold water 

2 c. boiling water 
Pinch of salt 



MeOiod: 

1. Mix flour with cold water to make a smooth paste. 

2. Add it to the boiling water, stirring to prevent lumps. 

3. Add salt and cook mixture at least 1 hr., adding enough water at the last 
to make a total of 2 c. liquid. 

4. Strain through cheesecloth or a gauze strainer. 



Barley Gruel and Jelly 



Ingredients: 

2t. 
3t. 
Ic. 
dash 



\]4 tb.-5J^ t. barley flour 
Cold water for a paste 
2 c. boiling water 
Pinch of salt 



Method: 

Follow the method for barley water. 

Notes: 

1. This recipe is the same as that for barley water except for extra flour. "Barley 
water, gruel, and jelly differ only in thicknes$." ^ 

2. "Pearl barley may be used if necessary. The grains must soak overnight and be 
cooked for three to four hours. Use a heaping teaspoonf ul of the grains for a pint of water." ^ 

3. "Rice jelly is made in the same way as barley jelly. The directions for cooking the 
various wheat preparations appear on the boxes, but all such preparations should be cooked 
at least three times as long as is there indicated, and should be strained, and thinned to the 
proper strength with boiling water."' 

4. " A fireless cooker is a great help in the preparation of cereals. If porridges are cooked 
for the family breakfast, a large spoonful of the cooked porridge may be added to a pint 
of boiling water, heated, stirred, and strained to make a thin gruel."* 

iMrs. Max West, Infant Care, Care of Children Series No. 2, Children's Bureau, U.S. 
Department of Labor. 
^Ibid, 
*Ihid. 
^Ibid. 



38 LESSONS IN COOKERY 

MISCELLANEOUS RECIPES 

Eggs Soft-cooked in the Shell 

(Coddled eggs) 

Method: 

1. Have a saucepan of water boiling hard, drop in eggs gently, and remove 
pan from the fire at once; allow 1 pt. water to each egg, and have the saucepan of 
such a shape that the water covers the eggs. 

2. Cover the pan and allow the eggs to cook &-10 min., keeping the pan in a 
warm place. 

3. Season the eggs with a little salt. 

Ndes: 

1. The whites of eggs should be soft and jelly-like. Cooked in this way they are quite 
readily digestible. 

2. Some children cannot digest the yolks of eggs, and it is often wise on this account 
to begin by feeding the whites only. 

Albumin Water 

Method: 

1. Place one raw white of egg in a saucer and cut (do not beat) with scissors 
or a knife and fork until much of the tenacious quality of the white is lost. 

2. Add 1 c. cold sterile water, strain the beverage through cheesecloth, and 
add a little salt, if desired. 

3. Keep the beverage on ice until it is time to serve it. 

Meat Broth ^ 

Method: 

1. Cut 1 lb. of any of the following raw meats into small pieces: 

Beef, lean, such as: 

Round 

Rump 

Chuck steak 

Neck 
Mutton (all skin and fat removed) 
Chicken (fowl, not a broiler) 

2. Add 2 c. cold water, and allow it to come to boiling point. 

3. Lower temperature and simmer meat 3-4 hr., or until it is tender; cook in 
a fireless cooker, if preferred. 

4. Remove meat and add enough water to make up the original quantity (2 c). 
6. Strain broth through a wire sieve and set it aside to cool. 

* Meat broth and beef juice should not be given unless a doctor orders them. (Not all author- 
ities advise giving them to infants and other yoimg children; see pages 14-15, Note 4). 



DIET POR CHILDREN SO 

6. When broth is cold, remove fat in a solid piece, leaving a clear liquid or 
jelly; it is very important that every particle of fat be removed (see Food 
Economy f page 136, step 7). 

7. Heat a small portion of jelly, season with salt only, and serve. 

Notes: 

1. " Broth has little or no nutritive value in itself, but if added to milk, or thickened with 
arrowroot, cornstarch, or gelatin, or eaten with dry bread crumbs it becomes a real food." i 

2. The use of beef extract is not to be advised in infant feeding. "The true meat 
extract, if ptire, contains little else besides the flavoring matters of the meat . . . . , 

together with such mineral salts as may be dissolved out It is, therefore, not a 

food at all, but a stimulant." * 

Beef Juice' 

Two methods are given for preparing beef juice for infant (or adult) feeding ; the follow- 
ing suggestions apply to both methods: 
Use fresh raw meat. 
Use such cuts as the following: 

Round steak (generally used) 

Sirloin steak 

Chuck steak 

Rvmip 

Neck 
Wipe meat with a damp doth. 

Method I: 

1. Remove all fat from meat. 

2. Broil the meat slightly; that is, cook 1-2 min., or just long enough to heat 
meat throughout, so that the juice will flow readily when meat is cut. 

3. Cut meat into small pieces. 

4. Squeeze juice into a hot cup, using a meat-press, lemon-squeezer, or potato- 
ricer. 

6. Salt juice, and serve at once. 

Method II (Cold process): 

1. Grind very fine in a meat-grinder 1 lb. beef from which all the fat has 
been cut. 

2. Place meat in a glass jar, add 3^1 c. cold sterile water, and shake well. 

3. Cover the jar lightly and place it on ice over night, shaking occasionally, 
if possible. 

4. In the morning strain the jtdce through sterile cheesecloth. 

6. Add salt to the juice, warm slightly in a double boiler, and serve. 

^Mrs. Max West, Infant Care, page 79. 

*"Meats: Composition and Cooking," Farmers* Bulletin 34, page 20, U.S. Department 
of Agriculture. 

•See footnote, page 38. 



40 LESSONS IN COOKERY 

Sterile Drinking Water 

Method: 

1. Put water into a saucepan, cover, and boil rapidly 20-30 min. 

2. Cool water quickly. 

3. Pour water into sterilized bottles, cork them with sterilized corks or cotton, 
and place them near or on the ice. Do not add ice. (Why?) 

Notes: 

1. Warm the water slightly before giving it to the baby. 

2. In any community where the water supply comes from a surface well, or from any 
other source that is at all questionable, all drinking water should be boiled — water for adults 
and children as well as for infants. 



PART V 
DIET FOR THE CHILD TWO TO FOUR YEARS OF AGE 



SUGGESTION FOR A LESSON 
Strained Vegetables 

2. Preparation of strained pulp from celery, spinach, etc. 



SUGGESTIONS FOR A DAY'S MEALS 

(Diet for the child two to four years of age) 

Breakfast (7:30 a.m.): 

Cereal (see Note 3) 

Warm milk to drink (see Note 2) 

Stale bread (see Note 4) 

1-4 tb. fruit juice or strained pulp (selected from list on page 33; baked 
or steamed bananas are also allowable) 
LwMcfe (11:00 A.M.): 

Milk (1 c.) 

Bread (stale) with butter (see Note 4) 
Dinner (1:00 p.m.): 

Starchy vegetable or a substitute (see Note 6) 

Mild, juicy vegetable, mashed (see Note 7) 

Milk to drink 

Bread (stale) and butter 

Dessert (see Note 8) 
Supper (5:30 p.m.): 

A milk-and-starchy-food combination (see Note 6) 

Milk to drink 

Bread (stale) and butter 

Notes: 

1. Pupil to note the evolution of these meals from those suggested on page 33. (The 
older a child, the more complex the meals.) 

2. A quart of milk, served as follows, should be the basis of every day's menus: 

Part (slightly warmed) served as a beverage 

Remainder served as a component part of one or more of the following: 

Milk-and-starchy-food combinations (see Note 6) 

Cream-of -vegetable soups 

Desserts (see Note 8) 

3. Cereals (unstrained) for use in the menus include: 

Finely ground cereal (cream of wheat or farina) 

Flakes, ready-to-eat (such as com or wheat) 

Grits (hominy or wheat) 

Meal (corn or oat) 

Rice (brown rice preferable to polished rice) 

Rolled cereal (barley, oats, or wheat) 
The coarser cereals (oatmeal, cracked wheat, ready-to-eat cereals, etc.) should not be 
given until after a child has learned to chew its food properly. The ready-to-eat cereals 
are often especially desirable for supper, particularly in the summer. 

Serve a cereal with salt, top milk or thin cream, and only a sprinkle of sugar, if any 
(see page 66, Note 6, as to use of sugar on cereal for children of various ages). 

43 



44 LESSONS IN COOKERY 

4. The following dry, tinsweetened breadstuffs are interchangeable in the diet of the 
child 3 or 4 years of age: 

Bread, dry (white, graham, etc.) 

Bread, stale (at least two days old) 

Bread sticks, crusty and stale 

Bread, pulled 

Crackers, hard and crisp (such as whole-wheat, graham, oatmeal, soda, gluten, 

Educator, etc.) 
Rolls, crusty (baked a second time when 24 hr. old) 
Toast, very dry (slices, sticks, or croutons) 
Zwieback 
In feeding children 2 to 4 years old (as well as all older children), some form of bread- 
stuff is usually given at each meal. Hard-baked crisp breads are advisable in that they 
require mastication. The breadstuff s should be thoroughly baked, and homemade for the 
most part. Partially dextrinized breadstuffs, such as crusts and zwieback, are often 
especially desirable because they are partly predigested. 

"The ordinary breakfast toast is not suitable for a baby. For him the bread should 
be at least one day old, and be cut in very thin slices. Slices should be placed on edge in a 
toast rack in the oven to dry, or kept separated by some other means. Leave the oven 
door partly open. The slices should not brown, but after they are dry they may be lightly 
toasted and should be tender and of a tmiform dryness throughout. 

"Dried bread: This is similar to the toast. Pull a loaf of fresh bread in pieces and 
dry in the oven in the same way, then toast very lightly, as needed." * 

Whole-grain breads, such as graham, are usually preferable for children in that they 
supply mineral elements for growth. 

As a rule, "animal'* and other sweet crackers should be avoided, since they pervert 
the taste. 

6. The following milk-and-starchy-food combinations are often interchangeable in the 
menus, lunch and supper menus especially (avoid pasty masses so far as possible) : 
Milk and a dry breadstuff (with or without butter) 
Milk toast 

Milk and cereal (such as rice) 
Milk to drink, and a baked potato (mashed) 
Milk to drink, and spaghetti or macaroni (boiled in water until tender and then 

simmered in milk, cream, or beef broth) 
Cream soup and a dry breadstuff 
The old-fashioned bowl of bread and milk cannot be improved upon for a child's supper. 
Milk-and-cereal, also, is often especially desirable. 

6. Starchy vegetables and their substitutes^ for use in this diet are as follows: 
Potato, baked (especially desirable) 
Potato, boiled and thoroughly mashed 
Spaghetti or macaroni, boiled 
Rice, boiled 

iMrs. Max West, Infant Care, pages 79-80. 

2 Food Economy, page 49, Note 6, gives list of substitutes for white potatoes, for use in 
adults' diet. 



DIET FOR CHILDREN 45 

Serve any of the foregoing with salt only, or with one of the following: 
Milk or thin cream 

Beef juice ) ^^^ ^^^g ^^^ ^^ 

Platter gravy p ^ ^ 

7. Mild jiiicy vegetables for use in this diet include the following: 

Asparagus tips 

Beans, string 

Beets, very young 

Carrots, young 

Cauliflower tips 

Celery 

Onions 

Peas, young green (strained) 

Spinach (especially valuable because of its iron content) 

Squash 
Boil (or steam) the vegetables, mash them or press them through a sieve, and add salt, 
or salt and a little cream, to the pulp and juice. 

If desired, make the vegetables into milk soups, using very little flour and fat. 

8. Possible desserts include very simple forms of the following (an asterisk denotes a 
dessert made on a milk basis) : 

Apple, baked or stewed 
•Cornstarch mold 
*Custard (firm or soft) 
*Custard derivatives, simple, such as: 
Bread puddings 
Cereal puddings (rice, etc.) 
Tapioca puddings (tapioca cream, etc.) 
Gelatin jelly (such as orange) 
*Jimket 
Prune pulp 
Puddings should be served with milk and very little, if any, sugar. 
Serve a dessert but once a day. 

9. Eggs and meat: At least two or three eggs should be served the child each week; a 
yolk of Qgg or a whole egg may be served daily. Eggs (all soft-cooked) may be given the 
child in any of the following forms: 

Eggs cooked in the shell (water below boiling point) 

Poached eggs (water below boiling point) 

Scrambled eggs 

Omelets 

Egg timbales 
Occasionally the mashed or grated yolk (mealy) of a very hard-boiled egg may be used. 
The following is a typical breakfast menu containing an egg: 

Farina 

Egg, soft-poached or soft-cooked in the shell 

One slice of stale bread, and butter 

Glass of warm milk 



46 LESSONS IN COOKERY 

Flora Rose, in The Care and Feeding of Children (Cornell Reading-Courses), suggests 
the following dietary for the third year: 

7:00-8:00 a.m. Cereal with cream, milk to drink 

or 
Lightly cx)oked egg with toast and milk 
10:00-11:00 a.m. Bread and milk 

2:00 P.M. ' Lightly cooked egg, buttered baked potato, bread and milk, stewed fruit 

or 
Broiled scraped beef, mashed vegetables, as spinach, pur6e of peas or 
carrots, bread, milk, light pudding, as rice or bread pudding or 
junket or occasionally a simple ice cream 

or 
Bread and milk, baked potato and one other vegetable, small serving 
pudding 
6:00-7:00 p.m. Bread and butter, milk 

or 
Cereal mush and milk 

or 

Bread and milk, and stewed pnmes or apple sauce 
See pages 14-15, Note 4, regarding time for introduction of meat in the feeding of 
children. 

10. Another suggestion for a dinner menu is as foUows: 

Mutton broth 
Baked potato 
Stewed celery 
Glass of milk 
Baked apple (pared before, or after being baked) 

11. Pupil to estimate the cost of a day's rations, such as the following: 

Breakfast: inner: 

J^ c. orange juice 1 c. dried-bean soup 

Ji c. farina Bread and butter 

l}/i c. milk Rice pudding 

Stale bread Lunch (4 : 00 p.m.) : 

Lunch (1 1 : 00 a.m.) : 2 graham crackers 

1 c. milk Supper: 

Stale bread Milk toast 

Baked pear 

12. See the following references for a detailed study of the caloric value and cost of 
menus for children of 2 to 4 years (as well as for older children of various ages) : Mary 
Swartz Rose, Feeding the Family, and "The Feeding of Yoimg Children," Technical 
Education Bulletin No, S, Teachers College, Columbia University. 

Pupil to supply data on a day's rations, using the following headings for a table: 



Ingredients 



Weight 



Protein Grams 



Fuel Value 
(Calories) 



Cost 



STRAINED VEGETABLES 

"When 2 years old he [the infant] may have most of the fresh green vegetables when 
thoroughly cooked and finely mashed." * 

The water in which vegetables have been boiled contains valuable mineral matter and 
should not be discaixied. Hence the rule for green peas, cauliflower, and other mild-juiced 
vegetables: Boil them in a very small quantity of water so that aU the water may easily 
be utilized; for example, in sauces or in soups. 

Carrots 

Method: • 

1. Boil the following ingredients together until the carrots are very tender: 

J^ lb. yotmg carrots 

2 c. slightly salted water, or 2 c. fat-free soup stock. 

Add more liquid if the 2 c. liquid boil away before the carrots are done. 

2. Press the carrots through a sieve, then add 1 t. bread crumbs and a little 
salt and butter. 

3. Reheat vegetable, and serve. 

Celery 

Mdhod: 

1. Stew celery in a little water until it is tender, then press it through a sieve. 

2. Add salt and a little cream, and serve. 

Com 

Method: 

1. Cook com-on-the-cob (fresh, young, and sweet) in water until it is tender. 

2. Score each row of kernels, and press out the pulp. (Caution: Do not 
retain any of the fiber.) 

3. Add salt and butter or cream to the pulp, heat, and serve. 

Spinach 

Method: 

1. Wash spinach, cover, and boil it in its own juice until it is tender. (If 
necessary, add a very little water so as to keep the vegetable from burning; see 
detailed recipe for spinach, Diet for Invalids,) 

2. Chop spinach, then press it through a sieve; do not discard any of the juice. 

3. To each quarter-cup of pulp and juice add 2 t. cream or melted butter, 
2 t. fine bread crumbs, and a little salt. 

4. Reheat vegetable, and serve. 

^From the quotation from the report of a committee of the American Medical Association 
given on page 11. 

47 



48 LESSONS IN COOKERY 

Peas 

Method: 

1. Press fresh-cooked or canned peas through a sieve. 

2. Add salt and a little butter or cream to the pulp, beat well, place mixture 
in a buttered baking dish, and bake 20-30 min. in a moderate oven. 

Asparagus 

Method: 

1. Secure 34 c. asparagus pulp and J^ c. concentrated asparagus water as 
follows: 

a. Boil 3^ bunch asparagus until it is tender in 2 c. slightly salted water 

(or enough barely to cover the vegetable). 
6. Remove the asparagus, then, using a fork or a knife, secure the pulp 

by gently scraping each stalk toward the tip. (Discard the coarse 

stalk.) 
c. Boil down the water to 34 c. 

2. Prepare a white sauce (see Note 1) from the following ingredients: 

1 1. flour 

0-1 1. butter 

}i c. milk 

}4 c. concentrated asparagus water 

Salt 

3. Dip two small slices of hot toast into the hot white sauce, then driain them. 

4. Add 34 c. asparagus pulp to the sauce remaining, reheat, pour over the 
toast, and serve. 

Notes: 

1. In making white sauce (and cream soup) for children, observe the following rules: 

a. Use less fat than in cooking for adtilts. 

b. Avoid cooking the fat to any extent, especially at a high temperature; hence 
use the dietetic method, as follows, for white sauce: 

(1) Scald milk in a double boiler. 

(2) Add a paste of cold milk aad flour to the hot milk (using twice as much 
milk as flour in the paste). 

(3) Stir the liquid in the double boiler until it is thick and thoroughly 
cooked, then add fat (if used), and serve. 

For further details of the dietetic method (use of cold-liquid blend) for white 
sauce, see Food Economy, page 70. 

2. Other vegetables (pulp and concentrated water), such as carrots, spinach, etc., may 
be substituted for asparagus in this recipe. 



PART VI 
DIET FOR THE CHILD FOUR TO EIGHT YEARS OF AGE 



SUGGESTIONS FOR LESSONS 

Breakfast Cereals 

3. General recipe for breakfast cereals 

Soups 

4. Celery or com soup (Cream soup prepared from a non-add juicy vegetable) 

6. Tomato soup (a) with soda; (b) without soda (Cream soup prepared from an acid 

juicy vegetable) 

6. Potato soup (Starchy-v^etable cream soup) 

7. Peanut-butter soup (Protein-food cream soup). Broth: meat, oyster, or clam 

C&EAM Toasts 

8. Milk toast. Cream-of-peanut-butter toast. Brewis 



SUGGESTIONS FOR A DAY'S MEALS 

{Diet for the child four to eight years of age) 

Breakfast (7:00 AM,): 

Fruit 

Cereal (preferably oatmeal) 

Milk to drink (cold or hot) 

Dry breadstuff, with butter 
Lunch {10:30 AM.)' 

Milk 

Dry breadstuff, with or without butter 
Dinner (1:30 p.m.): 

Soup — selected from the following: 

Simple cream soups (such as fresh-vegetable, peanut-butter, or 

dried-bean or pea) 
. Broths (containing cereals or vegetables) 

Dry breadstuflE (such as croutons) 

Soft-cooked egg 

Starchy vegetable or a substitute 

Mild juicy vegetable 

Stale bread, with butter 

Milk to drink (often omitted if a cream soup has been served) 

Dessert, very simple 

Supper (5:30 PM.): 

A milk-and-starchy-f ood combination 

Milk to drink 

Dessert 

Notes: 

1. Pupil to note the evolution of these meals from those suggested on page 43. Except 
for increase in quantities, foods for a child 4 to 8 years old differ very little from the foods 
given a child 2 to 4 years old; the suggested meals and Notes 2-8 (as well as the first part 
of Note 9), pages 43-45, apply to the diet of the child of 4 to 8 years as well as to the diet 
of the child 2 to 4 years of age. However, in cooking for the child of 4 to 8 years, the follow- 
ing foods may be included: 

Desserts for dinner and supper: 

Cake, plain (ginger, stale sponge, etc.) 

Cookies, plain (such as ginger or molasses) 

Fruits, mild (fresh or dried), cooked 

Ice creams and milk sherbets (see Note 2, Desserts) 

Irish-moss mold 

Sandwiches, filled with fruit butter, jelly, or jam 

61 



62 LESSONS IN COOKERY 

Fruits for breakfast: 

Apples or sweet oranges, raw (fresh and ripe) 

Mild fresh fruits, well cooked (such as peaches or apricots) 

Dried fruits, stewed (apples, peaches, prunes, dates, etc.) 

Vegetables, mild: 

Beans, strained 

Potatoes, creamed or escalloped 

Other vegetables, well cooked and mashed or strained 

Lettuce, fresh and tender (if thoroughly masticated) 

2. Note miscellaneous points regarding foods for this age: 

Cereals: See page 55, Note 6. 

Cheese: A sprinkle of cheese is sometimes a good addition to baked rice (served 

to a child of 5 to 8 years). 
Desserts: As a rule, these are served twice a day, not once only. 

In feeding a child 5 to 8 years old, one or two pieces of candy may be given 
at the end of one meal a day, but candy should be forbidden at other times. 
(No candy should be given under 3 years of age.) In feeding a child 6 to 8 years 
old, chocolate or cocoa may be used in moderate quantities to flavor puddings. 

Nuts (unless ground to a paste), preserves, and sirups should not be fed to 
children tmder 5 years of age, and only in small quantities to older children. 

Frozen dishes should be very plain; for example, a simple custard ice cream 
is allowed. Frozen dishes should be served in small quantities and once a week 
only. 
Eggs: Serve one a day. A little bacon may sometimes be served with an egg 

for a child over 5 years of age. 
Fats: The following fats, if used in moderation, are valuable in the diet of a 

child 5 to 7 years old: 

Bacon fat (spread on bread or added to baked potato) 
Butter (as far as possible, spread on bread rather than used in cooking) 
Cream 
Fruits, cooked: These should be prepared with little or no sugar. 
MUk: The use of a quart each day is essential. It is often desirable to serve 

part of this milk in the form of beverages, such as milk flavored with a little 

cocoa, cereal coffee, or malted milk. (Sometimes a little whipped cream may 

be added to a beverage as a garnish.) Occasionally a child 4 to 8 years old 

refuses to drink milk. Pupil to plan a day's menus for such a child, making 

sure that 1 qt. milk is concealed in the dishes given. 
Vegetables: Baked potatoes are more desirable than potatoes boiled and mashed. 
Sometimes plain white sauce may be added to potatoes and other vegetables. 
(For the child 5 to 8 years old, macaroni mixed with white sauce is a possible 
potato substitute.) 

3. In feeding a child of 5 to 7 years, the following time schedule is sometimes preferable 
to the one given on page 51: breakfast, 7:00 a.m.; dinner, 12:00 m.; lunch, 3:30 p.m.; 
supper, 5:30 p.m. So long as four meals a day are served, it matters little whether the 
Itmch is served in the mid-morning or mid-afternoon. 

4. Breakfast for school children should be comptdsoryy nourishing, and eaten leisurely. 
Malnutrition in children is often due to omission of breakfast or to an tmsuitable one. 
Children have not reserve strength enough in their bodies to tide them over long periods 
without food. 



BREAKFAST CEREALS 

Breakfast cereals are essential in the diet of growing children. 

General Recipe 

Ingredients: 

Salt (3^1 1. salt to 1 c. water, or 1 1. salt to 1 c. raw cereal; salt is essential) 

Method: 

1. Put the boiling water and salt in the inner part of a double boiler and set 
the pan directly above the flame. 

2. As soon as the water boils vigorously, slowly sprinkle in the cereal, stirring 
meanwhile. In the case of a finely ground cereal it is well to prevent Itunps by 
adding the cereal in the form of a cold-water paste. Be careful not to add any 
cereal so rapidly that the water stops boiling; rapid motion of the water is essential 
for the following reasons: 

a. It keeps the grains of cereal in motion so that they do not stick to the 

saucepan or cling to one another in lumps. 
6. The boiling water touches all starch grains equally. 

3. Boil the cereal 3-10 min. so as to swell the starch grains; the time varies 
with the cereal. Cook until the mass is thick and the separate flakes or grains of 
cereal do not settle. Stir a ground cereal almost constantly so as to prevent 
Itunps and the sticking of the cereal to the bottom of the pan. 

If a flaked cereal begins to settle, shake the saucepan, or lift mass gently with 
a fork; avoid crushing a flaked cereal by stirring with a spoon at this time or later. 

4. After boiling the cereal 3-10 min., cover tight, and submit it to long- 
continued low temperature; for example, cook in a double boiler. As a rule, no 
stirring is necessary; if at all, stir only to prevent sticking to the bottom and 
possible Itunping. The heavier the cereal, the longer the time required. The time 
varies from 3^8 hr.; 3^ hr. is the minimtma. 

CEREAL TIME IN A DOUBLE BOILBS 

Finely ground , 30-40 min. 

Coarsely ground 2-6 hr. 

Rolled 30-40 min. 

(Cereals have a better flavor if cooked for a long time, for example, over night. 
Rolled oats may be cooked in 30-40 min., but the finest flavor develops only with 
a longer period of cooking.) 

53 



64 LESSONS IN COOKERY 

Notes: 

1. Cereals grouped according tp varying proportions of water u^: 

a. Finely ground cereals (requiring 3^-6 c. water to 1 c. cereal): 
Barley grits Hominy, fine grits 

Com meal Oatmeal, fine steel-cut 

Cream of wheat Cream of barley 

Farina Vitos 

^ Malt breakfast food Etc. 

Whole or coarsely ground cereals (requiring an average of 2-3 c. water to 
1 c. cereal): 

Barley, pearl Oatmeal, coarse (sometimes parched 

Hominy, or hulled com before being cooked) 

Hominy grits, coarse Wheat, cracked or whole 

Rice Etc 

c. Rolled or flaked cereals (requiring an average of 2 c. water to 1 c. cereal): 
Oats, roUed 
Wheat, flaked 
Etc. 
The quantity of water required varies as the weight of the cereal; hence finely ground 
cereals require more water -than the other groups. The age of the cereal largely determines 
the weight. Proportions for class work are as foUows: 

6 tb. boiling water / 4 tb. boiling water 

1 tb. finely groimd cereal ( 1 tb. flaked cereal 

He t. salt ( He t. salt 

Why, as a rule, use a greater proportion of water in the small recipes than in the large? 

2. Two methods of serving plain cereals: 
As breakfast dishes 
As vegetables (it is sometimes desirable to saut^ hominy or rice for use in 

the diet of adults) 

3. Fruits, prepared in small pieces, as a rule may be added to cereal; for example: 

FRESH DRIED STEWED BAKED OR STE/MBD 



Apples 


Cherries 


Apricots 


Apples 


Bananas 


Dates 


Peaches 


Apricots 


Peaches 


Figs 


Pnmes 


Figs 


Pears 


Raisins 


Raspberries 


Pears 



Occasionally finely chopped nuts may be added to cereal for children over 8 years of age 
(and for adults). 

Four methods of adding fruits or nuts: 

Stir fruits or nuts into cereal just before it is served. 

Place them in bottom of cereal bowl, then add hot cereal. 

Place them on top of cereal after it is served. 

Place them in molds, add cereal, and chill. (Tum out and serve with cream and 
sugar.) 
Two methods of serving cereals containing chopped fruits or nuts: 

Breakfast dish 

Dessert (see rice pudding, etc.) 



DIET FOR CHILDREN 55 

4. Three aids in making a dish of breakfast cereal into almost a perfect meal in itself: 

Add cream or other fat to the cereal, since most cereals are deficient in fat. 
Add milk to rice and other cereals low in protein. 

Add fruit to polished rice and other cereals deficient in mineral matter. (See 
page 9, Note 4.) 

5. An oatmeal cracker, served with cream, is an excellent ready-to-serve breaHast 
dish for tise in children's diet. 

6. Cereals for children: Serve on cereal salt and a choice of the following: 

Thin cream 
Whole milk 
Top milk 

Sugar, in great moderation * 
A little butter, sometimes 
Avoid serving on cereal: 
Sugar in excess 
Sirup 

Much butter (especially in combination with sugar) 
"Haw are cereals to be given? Usually with milk or thin cream; always with plenty 
of salt, and with very little sugar — not over one-half teaspoonful on a saucerful of cereal. 
Cereals should not be served with sirups or butter and sugar. "2 

"With cereal, top milk or cream should be served, preferably without sugar; sirup and 
butter are undesirable as a rule."* 

For reasons why it is not well to serve much sugar on cereals, see page 17, Note 4. Note, 
too, that excess sugar eaten on cereals cultivates in a child a taste for sweets, and that the 
whole diet of the child is more wholesome if sugar is taken in other ways than on cereals. 



^Some authorities allow no sugar on cereals for children, some a Httle. 

Mjrm Brockett, superintendent of the Mary Crane Nursery, Chicago, says of her experience 
at the nursery: "As a rule, all children over 2 years of age are allowed 1 rounded teaspoonful 
of sugar to a bowl (large serving) of oatmeal or other cereal. Children will eat much more 
cereal if permitted this sprinkle of sugar. Many children refuse cereal without sugar, but prac- 
tically all children enjoy cereal (and thrive on it) when sugar is added." 

This experience at the Crane Nursery is in accord with the principle advocated by Drs. 
L. Emmett Holt, Graham Lusk, L. E. La Fetra, and G. R. Pisek in Feeding Children from Two 
to Seven Years Old (published by the Bureau of Public Health Education, City of New York), 
in which leaflet they advise not more than 1 teaspoonful of sugar to a dish of cereal. 

2L. Emmett Holt, The Care and Feeding of Children, page 138, from chapter cm diet foe chil- 
dren from the fourth to the tenth year. 

»Mary S. Rose, The Feeding of Young Children. 



Ho. 



Ht. 
Ht. 
Ho. 

dash 



CREAM SOUPS^ 

General Recipe for Cream Soup 

Ingredients: (3 servings in bouillon cups) 

1 c. strained food pulp and juice, measured after being thinned with 
water or other liquid to the consistency of thin cream (see Notes 1 and 2) 
1 c. thin white sauce: 

1 tb. flour (see Note 3) 
1 tb. fat (see Notes 4 and 7, a, b) 
1 c. milk (see Note 2) 
H-^i t* salt (probably less for very yoimg children) 

Method: 

1. Blend the wnite sauce with the pulp, bring the mixture to the boiling point, 
then simmer 2-3 min. (see Note 7,/). 

2. Add salt, strain if any Itmips are visible, and serve at once. The soup is 
much lighter and creamier if beaten with a' Dover beater just before it is served. 

Notes: 

1. The pulp of any food (meat, fish, vegetable, legume, etc.) may be tised in this recipe. 
In most cases it is necessary to cook the food until it is very soft before putting it through 
the sieve. Most persons prefer to remove all the fiber from vegetables, etc., but a little 
of the whole com, meat, or other solid food nfay be retained if desired; a few slices of cauli- 
flower or other succulent vegetable may be served in the soup as a garnish. 

Note the following points of economy: 

a. Tough vegetables, etc., may be used, since all the tough fiber is removed by 

the sieve. 

b. Either left-overs or fresh-cooked foods (vegetables, etc.) may be used. 

c. Any vegetables may be used, even beans in the pod and beets occasionally. 
Sometimes the flavor of vegetable soups is improved if the vegetables are saut^ed for 

a short time before being boiled. 

2. Liquids for use in thinning the food pulp used in cream soups or in making the sauce 
include the following: 

Milk (fresh or condensed) 

Cream 

Water (chief liquid in soups made from dried legumes) 

Meat stock 

Water in which vegetables have been cooked (all vegetable water is rich in mineral 

matter and is valuable for sauces as well as soups) 
Tomato juice (often used in other than tomato soup) 
Use these liquids singly or in any combination. Milk is tisually the chief liquid used 
in making the white sauce. 

I For geni?ral notes on cream soups (classification, seasonings, garnishes, etc.) pertaining 
chiefly to adults' diet, see Appendix G, pages 210-213. 

56 



DIET FOR CHILDREN 67 

3. The flour in the given recipe for soup (which is as thin as thin cream) may vary in 
quantity from to 1 tb. (Use to ^ t. in the class recipe.) 

The quantity of flour (or of any one of the other thickening agents listed below) required 
for cream soups in general varies according to the following: 

Desired thickness of soup; note the two types of soups: 
Soups as thin as thin cream 

Very thick cream soups, or purees (less often served than the thin soups) 
Kind of vegetable (starchy or succulent) 
Whether or not other thickening agents are used 
Flour (wheat, rice, etc.) is generally used as the thickening agent in a cream soup, but 
other agents may be used; for example: 
a. Starchy agents: 
Arrowroot 
Cornstarch 

Crumbs, bread or cracker 
J. Non-starchy agents (often used in diabetic diet for adults): 
Yolks of eggs 
Whole eggs 
Irish moss 
Any of these three agents may be used as the sole thickening agent, if desired. 
The foregoing agents not only thicken the soup, but they bind it as well. This binding 
of a cream soup is essential, since the solid portion of soup will separate from the liquid 
portion, when allowed to stand, tmless they are bound together. A paste composed of flour 
and fat is the usual binding agent. 

The starch of cream soups (present either in the food pulp or in the flour or its substi- 
tute) should be well cooked. 

4. The fat in the given recipe for soup may vary in quantity from to 1 tb. Fat will 
float on top if more than 1 tb. fat is tised to 1 tb. flour. 

Possible fats for use in cream soups include: 
Butter 
Com oil 
Drippings 
Nut margarine 
Oleomargarine 
6. Cream soups are a very economical source of nutriment and should be served often. 
They offer excellent opportunity for the use of left-overs. (Pupil to bring left-over protein 
foods, etc., from home.) 

6. Extra nutriment, such as the following, may be added in moderate quantities to 
cream soups: 

Plain cream 

Whipped cream (added as a garnish usually) 

Malted milk 

Grated cheese (added to vegetable or other soup just before it is served) 

Eggs: 

Whites, beaten stiff and folded in just before the soup is served 
Yolks, beaten or unbeaten 
Whole egg, beaten or tmbeaten 



58 LESSONS IN COOKERY 

Yolk of egg or whole egg is added in the following manner: 

a. Mix a little cold liquid with the egg, then add a little of the hot soup. 

b. Add this mixture to the remainder of soup just before the time for serving. 

7. Note the following points in regard to the method for cream soups: 

a. In cooking for very young children (and for invaHds), it is better to omit 

the fat (if used) from the white sauce and to add it to the soup just before it is 

servied. 
b» In preparing white sauce, made with or without fat, for use in children's diet 

(soups and other recipes), the dietetic method is the best method to use. 

(See Food Economy, page 70; see also Note 1, under "Asparagus," Diet for 

Children, page 48.) 
c In making 2 c. or more cream soup, it is safer to use a double boiler, so as to 

avoid the danger of lumping and scorching. (A similar rule is true for 2 c. 

or more white sauce or any other milk dish thickened with flour.) 

d. Add salt the last thing in making cream soup or sauce and other milk dishes, 
since salt tends to curdle the milk. Salt precipitates casein. 

e. Cream soups often have a curdled appearance if boiled too long; this is espe- 
cially true if egg has been added to the soup. 

/. In making soup (see recipes, pages 59-60) from the add vegetable tomato, 
prepare a tomato sauce, using tomato pulp, fat, and flour, then add the milk 
to the sauce. Why is this the safest method? 

8. Some cooks contend that cream soups are made more easily if white sauce is not 
used as a foundation. Pupil to suggest a cream-soup method in which white sauce is not 
used. 

CREAM SOUPS PREPARED FROM NON-ACID JUICT VEGETABLES 

General Recipe 

Ingredients: (S servings in bouillon cups) 



Ho. 



He 

dash 



1 c. strained vegetable pulp and juice, measured after being thinned to 
the consistency of thin cream with the water in which the vegetable was 
boiled (see Notes 1, 2, and 3) 
1 c. thin white sauce: 
1 tb. flour 
1 tb. fat 

1 c. milk or cream (stock, in part, if desired) 
}i-J4 1. salt 



Method: 

1. Add the white sauce to the vegetable pulp and juice, and simmer mixture 
2-6 min. 

2. Add salt, and serve. 

Notes: 

1. Only the simplest of juicy vegetables should be used in preparing this soup. For 
definite suggestions as to juicy vegetables for children's soups, see Appendix G, page 211, 
Note 3. 



DIET FOR CHILDREN 69 

2. To secure juicy-vegetable pulp and juice, add salt and a little water to vegetable, 
boil until it is tender, and press it through a sieve. 

The water in which any succulent vegetable has been boiled, reduced by evaporation 
to a minimum, should be added to the vegetable pulp and juice for use in soup; this water 
is rich in mineral matter, hence it is essential that it be retained. If there is excess water 
left, boil it down, but do not throw it away. {Caution: Do not boil vegetable water too 
long, else the flavor is injured.) Even onion or cabbage water may be used; onion juice in 
soup does not leave a taste in the mouth as do onions themselves. 

3. Left-over mashed vegetables may be used in making cream soups. 

4. Cream-of -cabbage soup is almost as delicate as cream-of -cauliflower, and much cheaper. 

5. Tomato soup is the only exception to the general method for juicy-vegetable soup; 
because of the acidity of tomatoes, tomato soup is prepared by the following special methods. 
(These methods apply only to cream-of -tomato soup; for bouillon, a tomato soup made 
without milk or cream, see Diet for Adults, page 128.) 

CREAM SOUPS PREPARED FROM ACID JUIC7 VEGETABLES 

Great care is required in the preparation of both the large and the small recipes for 
cream of tomato soups. 

If tomatoes are very sour, add a very little sugar; for example, J^ t. sugar to 1 c. soup 
made with or without soda. The sugar is added simply to coimteract the add taste, not 
to produce a sweet soup. 





Tomato Soup Made with Soda 


Ingredients: 


(5 servings in bouillon cups) 


Ht. 


1 tb. flour ' 


It. 


1 tb. fat 


3tb. 


1 c. strained stewed tomatoes (medium sour) 


3tb. 


I c. scalding hot milk (or thin cream) 


dash 


}i t. salt 


dash 


Paprika 


spk. 


i4 1. baking soda 



Method I: 

1. Make a thin tomato sauce from the first three ingredients, including 1 min. 
of boiling in the process. 

2. Add soda, then, stirring constantly, boil sauce 3^ min., or until the froth 
disappears. 

3. With constant stirring, very slowly add the hot milk (drop by drop at first). 

4. Boil 3^ min., season, and serve at once. 

Method II: 

1. Scald the strained tomatoes, add soda, and with constant stirring boil 
mixture 3^ min., or until the froth disappears. 

2. Prepare a thin white sauce, then, stirring the sauce constantly, very slowly 
add the hot tomatoes to it; add drop by drop at first. 

3. Boil 3^ min., season, and serve at once. 



60 



LESSONS IN COOKERY 



Notts: 

1. Beware of using too much soda with either method, since soda, like other alkalies, 
has a very disagreeable flavor; if tomatoes have a low acid content, decrease the soda in the 
given redpe. If the tomatoes are very sour, increase the soda slightly. 

2. Note advantages of soda: 

a. It neutralizes, or destroys, the acid which otherwise might curdle the soup. 
Thus it also reduces the acid flavor of soup. 

b. It lightens the color of the soup because of the gas carbon dioxide formed by 
the union of soda and acid (the introduction of any gas into foods in general 
lightens the color of the foods). 

3. Note disadvantages of soda: 

a. It alters the flavor of the tomatoes. 

b. It is sometimes objectionable from the standpoint of digestion. 

c. It destroys the vitamines of tomatoes. 



Ingredients: 

Ht. 
It. 

3tb. 
3tb. 
dash 
dash 



Tomato Soup Made without Soda 

(3 servings in bouillon cups) 

2 tb. flour 

1 tb. fat 

1 c. strained stewed tomatoes 

1 c. milk (or thin cream) 

i^t. salt 

Paprika 



Mdhod: 

1. From the first three ingredients prepare a tomato sauce as thick as thick 
cream; boil it hard 2-3 min. This -thorough cooking is essential. 

2. Add cold milk all at once (not slowly). 

3. Stir the mixture rapidly over the fire until it is perfectly smooth. Do not 
be dismayed if, in the beginning, it looks like sour milk. 

4. Add salt and paprika, and serve. 



Note: 



Fresh milk is essential. 



Ingredients: 

He. 



Ho. 

dash 



STARCHY-VEGETABLE CREAM SOUPS 

General Recipe 

(5 servings in bouillon cups) 

1 c. strained vegetable pulp and juice, measured after being thinned with 
water or vegetable stock to the consistency of thin cream (see Notes 
1 and 2) 
1 c. thin white sauce: 

2 1. flour (see Note 3) 
1 tb. fat 

1 c. milk (see Note 4) 
yi"}^ t. salt (see Note 5) 



DIET FOR CHILDREN 61 

Method: 

!• Add white sauce to vegetable pulp and juice, and simmer mixture 2-5 min, 
2. Add salt, and serve. 

Naies: 

1. Any of the following starchy vegetables (all of which are highly nutritious) may be 
used in this recipe (certain of these may not be desirable in cooking for children) : 

o. Starchy roots and tubers: 
Artichoke, Jerusalem 
Dasheen 

Potatoes, sweet and white 
Yams 
b. Dried legumes (rich in protein and fat as well as in starch) : 
Beans (lima, kidney, etc.) 
Lentils 

Peanute, raw (soup made from these tastes much like bean soup) 
Peas (whole or split) 
Canned or freshly cooked legumes may be used. 

Lima beans cooked with carrots result in an attractive soup, yellow in color. 
The pulp of the raw peanut is obtained in almost the same way as is the pulp from dried 
beans and other legumes, namely: 

a. Soak shelled nuts over night in cold water to cover. 

b. Drain, and add fresh water together with chopped onion and celery and a 
bit of bay leaf. 

c. Simmer mixtiu-e 3-5 hr., or imtil peanuts are tender; two or more changes of 
water are desirable in order to remove pink coloring matter. (If preferred, 
boil mixture 10-15 min., and then cook it all night in the fireless cooker.) 

d. Press mixture through a sieve in order to separate the pulp from the skins. 
In cooking for children 4 to 8 years of age (and for adult invalids) it is well to strain 

dried legumes for use in soups, etc., so as to remove all skins; the skins are indigestible and 
irritating to delicate organs of digestion. 

2. Authorities differ as to whether the water in which potatoes have been boiled shall 
be used as part of the liquid in cream-of -potato soup. Potato water darkens as soon as it 
is exposed to the air. This change is due to the oxidation of organic compounds present 
in the potato water. The products are not injurious, and the water may be used in soup. 

3. Note that a very thin white sauce is used in this recipe, that is, that little flotu: is 
needed for binding the soup. Why? The quantity of floiu* in the recipe sometimes varies 
frjm to 2 t.; for example: 

a. Bean and certain other soui)s: 0-1 1. flour is sometimes used. 

b. Peanut soup: Use a little more than 2 1. flour. (State composition of peanuts. 
Do peanuts and soy beans contain as much starch as other dried legumes?) 

c. Potato soup: 1 t. floiu- to 1 c. milk is the usual proportion for the white 
sauce. (Use J^ t. flour to J^ c. milk in the class recipe.) It is not well to 
make potato soup without any flour, for the starch in potato has very little 
of the binding quality so essential in all cream soups. 

4. Water is sometimes used in place of milk, especially in the case of dried legumes. 
6. In cooking for adults, see Appendix G, page 212, Notes 4 and 5, for possible substi- 
tutes for vegetable pulp in this recipe and for suggestions as to seasonings. 



62 LESSONS IN COOKERY 

PROTEIN-FOOD CREAM SOUPS 

In combination with a breadstuff and butter, each of these soups in itself is almost a 
complete meal. Recipes for some of the more unusual soups follow. 

Peanuts-Butter Soup 

Ingredients: (^H servings in bouiUon cups) 

J^ tb. 2 tb. peanut butter 

Ji t. It. flour 

J^ c. 1 c. cold milk 

dash H t. salt, or to taste (use less than J^ t. if peanut butter is very salty) 

Method: 

1. Blend the flour with the peanut butter, then add about 2 tb. milk to make 
a smooth paste. 

2. Slowly add the remainder of the milk. 

3. Simmer mixture 3-5 min., or until it is slightly thickened; cook it 10-15 
min. in a double boiler if preferred. 

4. Add salt, strain soup' if desired, and serve. 

Notes: 

1. Peanuts are so rich in oil that additional fat is not necessary in the soup. 

Peanut soup is really a white sauce with peanut butter in place of dairy butter or 
other fat. 

2. An excellent soup can be made simply by cooking peanut butter and milk together, 
but since peanut butter is somewhat deficient in starch, it is better to add a little flour as 
a binding agent. 

3. Water or chicken or veal stock may be substituted for part of the milk. Peanut 
soup made with skim milk is good and nutritious, and an excellent dish for "penny lunch- 
rooms." 

4. In most cases it is doubtless an economy in money and time to use commercial rather 
than homemade peanut butter. 

5. Almost any nuts, ground to a butter in a meat-grinder, may be substituted for peanut 
butter in this recipe; for example: 

Almonds 

Pecans 

Pistachio nuts 

Walnuts, English 
Do all nut-butter soups require the same quantity of flour? 
(Eiq)eriment with malted nuts.) 

Peanuts, almonds, etc., may be ground to a fine meal rather than to a butter, but as a 
rule the butter is preferable in soup. 

What is confectioners' almond paste? Can it be used in making cream soup? 

6. Peanut butter is a product of roasted peanuts. For a soup prepared from raw pea- 
nuts, see recipe, page 60. Peanut-butter soup is the more desirable soup, since it is of finer 
fla^/or and requires much less time in the making. 

7. Nut soup may be used as a meat substitute in a meal. 



DIET FOR CHILDREN 63 

Peanut Butter 

Method: 

1. Shell freshly roasted peanuts, and remove brown skins. 

2. Grind peanuts through a meat-grinder to make a velvety paste; if the 
pulp disk is used and is property adjusted, one grinding is sufficient. 

3. Add salt. Use the butter at once or place it in a refrigerator in a covered 
glass jar; it will keep several weeks, but not indefinitely. 

Noia: 

1. This is a popular class exercise. The recipe is so simple that even a small child can 
make good butter for use in the home. 

2. If the roasted peanuts are at all stale, shell them, place them in a shallow pan, and 
bake them in a slow oven until they are crisp. (Peanuts may be roasted in the home. 
Roast them before or after shelling; use a moderate oven in either case, and stir often.) 

3. See Appendix G, page 216, Note 4, for suggestions as to sandwich filling for adults. 

Almond Butter 

Method: 

1. Shell almonds, and blanch them as follows: 

a. Cover them with boiling water, let them stand 1^ min., then drain, 

and plunge them into cold water. 
6. Drain nuts, and remove brown skins. 

2. Place nuts in a warming oven and let them stand until they are crisp and a 
very delicate brown (if preferred, do not allow the nuts to brown). 

, 3. Reduce nuts to a Velvety paste by grinding them through a meat-grinder; 
one grinding is sufficient if a fine disk and a high tension are used. 

4. Add a little salt, and place butter in a refrigerator in a covered glass jar. 

Naies: 

1. Salted ahnonds also may be made into butter. 

2. Use ahnond butter in soups, sandwiches, etc 

Cheese Soup 
Ingredients: U}^^ servings in bouillon cups) 

1-2 1. 2 tb.-H c. rich cheese, grated or chopped (sudi as brick cream cheese) 

1 c. thin white sauce: 
yit. 1 tb. flour 

3^t. 0-1 tb. fat 

'Ji c. 1 c. milk 

dash H t. salt 

(dash Paprika 

Method: 

1. Add the cheese to the sauce and stir mixture in a double boiler just until 
the cheese is melted, but cook no longer. 
2» Season; strain, and serve at once. 



64 LESSONS IN COOKERY 





Oyster Soup 


Ingredients: 


(5 servings in bouillon cups) 


2 small oysters 


1 c. oysters and liquor (avoid shells) 


+1 1. liquor 






1 c. thin white sauce: 


Ht. 


1 tb. flour (see Note 1) 


Ht. 


1-2 tb. fat 


Ho. 


1 c. milk or thin cream 


dash 


Salt to taste 



Method: 

1. Remove oysters from the liquor. 

2. Heat liquor to the boiling point (see Note 2). 

3. Mix the hot sauce, liquor, and oysters, and heat mixture in a double boiler 
until the gills of the oysters curl (see Note 4). 

4. Season, and serve at once with toasted crackers. 

Naiea: 

1. If desired, vary the flour from J^ tb. to 2 tb. or more. The term stew is often 
applied to the recipe when flour is omitted, the entire thickening being composed of 
broken crackers, added just before the soup is served. Cornstarch or yolks of eggs may 
be used as thickening in place of flour or crackers. 

2. It is essential that ojrster liquor really boil before being mixed with any white sauce 
or milk, else a curdled soup is Hkely to result. 

3. A very simple method for oyster soup is as follows: 

o. Prepare a sauce from all the flour, fat, and oyster Hquor. 

b. Add cold milk to the sauce and bring mixture to the boiling point. 

4. In soup-making, saut^ing, and other methods of cooking avoid prolonged cooking of 
oysters at either a low or a high temperature. Some cooks contend that oysters have more 
flavor if submitted for a very_short time to a high temperature — such as the boiling point 
of oyster soup. 

»Note 4 is adapted from Farmers* Bulletin 487, "Cheese and Its Economical Uses in the 
Diet," page 32, U.S. Department of Agriculture. 



NoUb: 

1. One beaten yolk of egg (}4 t. in class recipe) may be added to the soup, if desired; 
add the hot soup to the yolk, beating constantly. 

2. Stock may be used in place of part or all of the milk. 

3. Cream-of-cheese soup is not always advisable for children, even if correctly made. ' 
In making the soup for a child of 4 to 8 years, use the minimum quantity of cheese and use 

no eggs. Do not give the soup in its richest state to any child under 12 years. 

4. The proteins* in the following soup are equal in quantity to those in five-sixths of a 
pound of beef of average composition; the fuel value of the soup is higher than that of a j 
pound of beef. 

3 c. milk (or part milk and part stock) 1 c. grated cheese 

lyi tb. flour Salt and paprika 



BROTHS 

Simple broths are stiitable for use in the diet of a child 4 to 8 years of age. Thick, rich 
meat - stock soups are undesirable. 

Meat Broth 

Method: 

Follow the method for broth for infants, pages 38-39. 

Notes: 

1. The following ingredients, if thoroughly cooked and in small quantities, are possible 
additions: 

Asparagus Barley 

Cauliflower Macaroni 

Celery Rice 

Onion Sago 

Spinach Tapioca 

2. All fat should be skimmed from a broth before it is served. 

3. Milk is sometimes added to chicken or other broth. 

Oyster Broth 

Method: 

1. Mix oyster liquor with an equal quantity of water. 

2. Heat just to the scalding point, add salt, and serve. 

Note: 

Liquor, or juice, is usually found surrounding raw oysters; if it is lacking, chop raw 
oysters, heat them gently in a little water, then strain off the juice. 

Clam Broth 

Method: 

1. Wash clams and place them in a granite basin. 

2. Place basin either in an oven or in a steamer, and heat until the dam shells 
open. 

3. Drain off the liquor from the clams, and add to it an equal quantity of 
warm water. 

4. Scald, add salt and a few cracker crumbs as thickening, and serve. 

Note: 

Oyster broth may be made by this method by the substitution of oysters in the shell 
for clams. 

65 



CREAM TOASTS 

Milk Toast 

Method: 

1. Toast stale bread slowly until it Js golden brown and dry and crisp 
throughout. 

2. Place toast in a hot dish, then, just before serving, cover it with scalded 
milk and sprinkle it with salt and bits of butter. 

3. Garnish with parsley and paprika, and serve in hot dishes. 

Nciea: 

.1. Thin white sauce, a possible substitute for milk, should be poured over the toast a 
few minutes before it is served. A good class recipe for sauce is as follows: 

5i t. flour 3 tb. milk 

% t. butter or a substitute Dash of salt 

2. Allow about 3^ c. milk or sauce to 1 slice toast. 

3. A good method is to place milk in a hot pitcher and pour it over the toast at the table. 

4. K desired, dip toast quickly into boiling salted water, drain, and add milk or sauce. 
6. Dishes derived from, or similar in some respects to, milk toast include those listed 

below (toast may be substituted for the bread and crackers in brewis and creamed crack- 
ers, and, too, a yolk of egg, slightly beaten, may be added to either dish) : 
Water toast: Substitute boiling water for the milk of milk toast. 
Cream toast: Substitute scalded cream for the milk of milk toast, and omit 

the butter. 
Cream-of-fruit toast: Pour hot cream over toast, and add chopped dates. (In 

cooking for children over 8 years of age, chopped figs, raisins, prunes, etc., 

are possible substitutes for dates.) 
Cream-of-peanut-butter toast: Spread hot toast with peanut butter, pour a thin 

white sauce over it, and serve. 
Cream-of-tomato toast: Pour tomato sauce made with a Httle milk or cream 

over hot toast. Garnish with paprika and parsley. 
Brewis: Break into small pieces several slices each of stale brown and white 

bread, place them in a double boiler, add milk or milk and water, almost to 

cover, and cook until bread is soft and thoroughly hot. Add salt, pour into 

a hot bowl, add a little butter or cream, and serve. 
Creamed crackers: Split butter crackers, and add butter and salt. Place them 

in a buttered baking dish, cgver with milk, and bake slowly 30 min. (For 

adults pepper and cheese are possible additions to this dish.) 
Soufflied crackers: Split common crackers and soak them 8 min. in ice water 

to cover. Dot the crackers with butter, and bake them in a hot oven until 

puflEed and brown. 

66 



PART VII 
DIET FOR THE CHILD EIGHT TO TWELVE YEARS OF AGE 



SUGGESTIONS FOR LESSONS ! 

Egg Recipes 

9. Goldenrod eggs. Rice with yolks of eggs 

10. Eggs baked_in artificial cups or nests 

11. Poached eggs on toast 

12. Scrambled eggs. Scrambled-egg omelet 

Meat and Pish Recipes 

13. Scraped-meat balls 

14. Beef or chicken stew 

15. Boiled fish. Steamed fish. Baked fish 

Vegetable Recipes 

16. Creamed vegetables: 

a. Potatoes (starchy vegetable) 

h. Celery or cafrots (juicy vegetable) 

17. Escalloped vegetables: 

a. Potatoes or cauliflower (or other non-add vegetable) with white sauce 

b. Tomatoes (an acid vegetable) without white sauce 

Beverages 

18. Cereal coffee. Cocoa-shell tea. Cocoa 

Desserts Made on a Milk Basis 

19. Junket. Irish-moss mold 

20. Plain cornstarch mold and derivatives 

21. Rice pudding: with eggs; without ^;gs 

Dishes for Children's Parties 

22. Sandwiches 

23. Fruit salads • 

24. Charlottes 

25. Sherbets 

26. Baked Alaska 



SUGGESTIONS FOR A DAY'S MEALS 

{Diet for the child eight to twelve years of age) 

Breakfast (7 : 00-7 : 30 a.m.) : 

Any mild, ripe fruit (raw or cooked) 

Cereal (such as rolled oats) 

Stale bread or dry toast, with butter 

Milk or very weak cocoa 
Dinner (12 : 00 M.-12 : 30 p.m.) : 

Protein food, selected from the following: 
^gg, soft-cooked 



Fish ) ,^ ^, 
Meat I (See Note 3) 



Potatoes or a substitute,* such as: 

Potatoes, white or sweet (baked) 

Potatoes, boiled (mashed or creamed) 

Macaroni or spaghetti (boiled) 

Rice (boiled or steamed) 

Bananas (baked) 
Mild juicy vegetable 
Bread and butter 

Milk (if preferred, omit this and give a cream vegetable soup) 
Dessert 

Supper (5:30-6:00 p.m.): 

A milk-and-starchy-f ood combination 

Bread and butter 

Milk to drink (often omitted) 

Dessert 

Nates: 

1. Pupil to note the evolution of these meals from those suggested on page 61. 
(The older a child, the more complex the meals.) All foods allowed the younger child are 
also allowed the child 8 to 12 years old; but certain foods (meat, fish, raw vegetables, etc.) 
not given the younger child are given to the child of 8 to 12. 

. 2. Three meals daily are sufficient for many children of 8 to 12 years. A mid-morning 
or mid-aftemoon lunch, at which one of the following foods may be given, is sometimes 
necessary: 

Crackers or dry bread 

Milk 

Fresh fruit (if the child is well) 

iBy way of comparison, see Food Economy, page 49, Note 5, for a list of substitutes for 
white potatoes for use in adults' diet. 



70 LESSONS IN COOKERY 

Dinner is served at noon rather than at night. If, occasionally, dinner must be served 
at night, it should not be later than 6:00 p.m. ; a luncheon is served at noon in such a case. 
Except for a wider choice of hot dishes, a luncheon for this age is similar to a dinner for a 
child of 4 to 8 years. 

3. Lean meat and fish, as follows, are allowable in the diet of a child 7 or 8 to 
12 years of age: 

Meat, broiled: 

Beefsteak (rare) 

Mutton or lamb chops (rare) 

Hamburg steak 

Chicken (preferably the light meat) 

Meat, roasted: 
Beef (rare) 
Mutton or lamb 

Chicken (preferably the light meat) 
Meat, boiled 

Meat, stewed (preferably mutton, beef, or chicken, with young vegetables; meat 
should be cut fine and all fat should be removed from the stew before it is 
served) 

Fish (broiled, baked, boiled, or stewed), especially the light-colored varieties, 
such as: 

Cod 

Haddock 
HaHbut 

Whitefish (preferable) 
Oysters (broiled, etc.; fried oysters are forbidden) 
Broiled or baked (roasted) meats and fish are usually preferable. 
With some few children the following are sometimes allowable: 
Sweetbreads (parboiled, then added to white sauce) 
Turkey, squab, or pheasant 
High seasonings should be avoided in stews and all other meat and fish dishes. 
Fat hinders digestion, hence avoid: 

Fat meats (except bacon occasionally) 

Fat fish (dark fish contain more fat than the light-colored varieties) 
Addition of fat to meats and fish 

Rich sauces or gravies with meats or fish (platter gravy is allowable) 
Meat should be served but once a day, and then only in small portions (not over an otmce 
to a child). Meat and fish should supplement milk, not displace it. 

4. Note miscellaneous points regarding foods for children 8 to 12 years old: 

Cheese: Rice or macaroni baked with a little cheese is permissible. Cheese of 
various kinds may be used in sandwiches for the older children of this period. 

Desserts: A little more sugar may be allowed on desserts than in the diet of 
a younger child. A small piece of pure plain candy or plain sweet chocolate 
may be used as a dessert. 



DIET FOR CHILDREN 71 

Fruits: Strongly add fruits are forbidden, hence dates, figs, and raisins are 

useful. Raisins should always be cxx>ked (stewed, used in puddings, etc.). 

If fruit is served as a dessert at the evening meal, cooked fruit (moderately 

sweetened) is preferable. 
Milk: 1 qt. daily should be used. 
Nuts: Peanut and other nut butters may be given, but imgrotrnd nuts (largely 

becatise they are hard to masticate) should not be given freely. 
Soups: Cream soups are often served for supper (or luncheon; see Note 2), 

and occasionally for dinner. If protein-food (oyster, etc.) cream soups are 

served for dinner, their protein value should be considered. 

Broths (mutton, chicken, oyster, etc.) are an excellent dinner soup. 
Vegetables: No raw vegetables (cabbage, radishes, onions, etc.) should be given 

before the tenth or twelfth year. 

All mild, thoroughly cooked juicy vegetables, including turnips, are allowable 
for a child 8 to 12 years old; however, it is sometimes asserted that the follow- 
ing cooked vegetables should be forbidden a child under 10 years of age: 
Beans, lima 
Cabbage 
Com 
Eggplant 

5. For a study of the caloric value and cost of menus for this age, see authorities and 
suggestions given in Note 12, page 46. 

6. Pupil to decide points a, 6, and c in regard to the menus which follow: 

a. Which menus do not conform to the foregoing scheme? (The majority of 
the menus given do conform; that is, they are correct for a child 8 to 12 years 
old.) Pupil, by making the necessary changes, to have all the menus con- 
form to the scheme. 

b. Which menus are especially adapted to the diet of the child who does not 
like milk as a beverage? 

c. Which menus are especially adapted to summer and winter diets? 

Breakfast menus: ^ 



Orange (sweet) 




Oatmeal 


Cream 


Toast 


Cocoa 


Baked apple 




Cracked wheat 


Cream 


Bread and butter 


Milk 


Stewed apricots, pnmes. 


or raisins 


Cereal 


Top milk 


Bacon Toast 


Crust coffee or milk 



72 

Dinner menus: 



LESS0N3 IN COOKERY 



Mutton stew (with carrots and celery) 
Baked potatoes Bread and butter Milk 

Cooked rice with fruit-jtiice sauce 



Mutton chops 
Buttered beets Bread and butter 

Chocolate custard over toasted rolls 



Creamed potato balls 



Milk 



Broiled meat balls, rare 

Tapioca cream 



Baked potatoes 
Bread and butter 



Buttered turnips 
Milk 



Stewed chicken 



Boiled rice 
Bread and butter 



Green peas 



Blueberry pudding 



Milk 



Chicken rice-balls 
Toast 



Buttered carrots 
Milk 



Stewed pears 



Creamed chicken 

Sliced tomatoes 

Bread pudding 



Baked potatoes 
Bread and butter 
Cocoa 



Steamed fish 

Bread and butter 



Baked potatoes 
Rice or hominy pudding 



Spinach 



Milk 



.Baked fish 



Bread and butter 



Baked potatoes 
Orange gelatin 



Sweet com cut from the cobs 
Milk 



Boiled fish Baked potatoes 

Bread and butter 
Toast, with sugar and dimamon 



Stewed tomatoes 



Apple water 



Cream-of -carrot soup 

Poached eggs in a nest of mashed potatoes Spinach, finely chopped 

Bread and butter Two pieces of simple candy 



Cream-of -celery soup 
Eggs in boats 



Cauliflower 



Wafers 
Bread and butter 



Irish-moss mold, with sweet grape juice as a sauce 



Oyster or clam broth 
Foamy omelet 

Bread and butter 



Mashed potatoes 



Wafers 

Asparagus tips 
Freshly stewed peaches 



Mutton broth 
Goldenrod eggs 



Buttered cauliflower 
Caramel jtmket 



Wafers 
Bread and butter 



DIET FOR CHILDREN 



73 



Supper menus: 



Cream-of -celery soup 

Rice pudding 



Toast sticks 



Bread and butter 
Milk 



Cream-of-potato soup Crackers 

Cottage pudding with orange sauce 



Bread and butter 
Milk 



Cream-of -dried-bean soup 
Bread pudding 



Bread and butter 
Cocoa 



Cream-of -tomato soup Wafers 

Cinnamon rolls, with homemade jelly (or jelly sandwiches) 



Bread and butter 
Milk 



Spaghetti with cream-of -tomato sauce 

Bread and butter Milk 

Caramel custard Lady fingers 



Brown bread and butter 



Milk 



Figs 



Luncheon menus: 



Chicken broth with rice and carrots 
Scrambled eggs Green peas, mashed 

Corn flakes with fruit juice 



Zwieback 

Bread and butter 



Cream-of -spinach soup 
Rice with yolks of eggs 



Croutons 

Bread and butter 



Prune toast 



Orange soup ( ottage-cheese wafiers 

Graham muffins, with maple sirup or homemade caramel sirup 



Peas in turnip cups 

Orange sherbet 



Bread and butter 



Sponge cake 



Milk 



Party menus: 



Hot chicken sandwiches 

Rice Bavarian cream 



Salted almonds 



Olives 



Orangeade 



Creamed oysters in toast boxes 



Bread and butter sandwiches 



Ice-cream cones 



Fancy sandwiches 

Caramel ice cream 



Lemonade tinted with grape juice 
Angel cake 



Fruit salad 



Sandwiches: cream-cheese; fig; nut and date 
Glac^ fruits and nut^ 



Chicken sandwiches 

Charlotte russe 



Ribbon and roll sandwiches 
Cocoa 



Fillet of beef or crown of lamb 

Creamed potatoes Bread and butter 

Ice cream Lady fingers 





EGGS 




Goldenrod Eggs 


IngredienU: 






Thin white sauce: 


^t. 


1 tb. butter 


^i^At. 


1 tb. flour 


i\^\i^ 


Ht.salt 


dash 


}4 1. paprika 


2tb. 


1 c. milk 


Hegg 


3 hard-cooked eggs (see Note 1) 


1 slice 


4 slices of toast 


1 sprig 


Parsley 



Method: 

1. Chop the whites of eggs and add them to the white sauce. 

2. Place toast on a hot platter, add the sauce, and sprinkle the center of each 
slice with yolk pressed through a potato-ricer or a sieve (each pupil may use a 
small flour sieve as a ricer). 

3. Garnish with parsley. 

iVbfes; 

1. To hard-cook eggs, cook them 15-20 min. in boiling water, or cook them 40-45 min. 
in water considerably below the boiling point. (See Diet for Invalids,) 

2. Goldenrod eggs make an attractive dish for spring menus. 

3. See Food Economy, pages 64-67, for other creamed protein foods. 

Rice with Yolks of Eggs 



Ingredients: 


(fi-8 servings) 


2tb. 


l}i c. boiled or steamed rice (salted during the cooking) 


Ht.yolk 


4 hard-cooked yolks (see note) 




White sauce: 


M-Ht. 


2 tb. butter 


Ht. 


2 tb. flour 


dfl,<^h 


Ji t. salt 


2tb. 


1 cmilk 



Method: 

1. Place freshly cooked rice in a serving dish and pour the sauce over it; heat 
cold left-over rice in the sauce. 

2. Sprinkle the yolks with salt, press them through a sieve or ricer, and use as 
a garnish for the rice. (If preferred, cut the yolks in halves and use as a garnish.) 

3. Bake mixture 2-3 min., garnish with parsley, and serve. 

74 



DIET FOR CHILDREN 76 

NoU: 

To prepare the yolks of eggs, cook the yolks in salted, simmering water 20 inin., or 
tmtil they are mealy and dry; beware of breaking the membranes as the yolks are dropped 
into the water. 



Beaten Egg Steamed 



Ingredients: 

J^yolk 
J^ white 
dash 



1 yolk of egg, beaten very light 
1 white of egg, beaten stiff 
Salt 



Hfethod: 

1. Fold the white and salt into the yolk the same as for omelet. 

2. Pour mixture into a well-buttered ramekin. 

3. Set ramekin in a pan of simmering water, cover, and let recipe cook 8-10 
min., or until it is very light and firm. Do not allow the water to rise above the 
simmering point. 

NoU: 

Show that this recipe is closely related both to a plain souffle and to a foamy omelet (as 
well as to an omelet souffle). 

Eggs Baked in Artificial Cups or Nest8 
Method: 

1. Prepare cups in any of the following ways: 

a. Scoop out the top of a baked potato. 

b. Form any of the following into a ball or cube, scoop out the top, then 
cover the outside surface of mold with buttered crumbs: 

Cereal, left-over cooked (such as rice or com meal) 
Flour paste, cooked (such as macaroni or spaghetti) 
Potato, mashed and well seasoned 

c. Scoop out the top of a cube of stale bread, then toast the box on all 
sides. 

d. Scoop out the top of a roll. (If preferred, split a long finger roll in 
halves, and scoop out the center of each half, thus fonning two cups 
or boats.) 

e. Cut a slice from the stem end of a medium tomato and remove part 
of the pulp. (Sprinkle the inside of the tomato cup with salt; in 
cooking for adults, pepper, onion juice, and chopped parsley are 
possible additions.) 

/. Add 14 t. salt to a white of egg and beat the white until it is stiff. 
Heap the white on a slice of buttered toast, then make a hollow in 
the top of it. 



76 LESSONS IN COOKERY 

2. Break a raw unbeaten egg into each of the cups. (In the case of the white- 
of-egg nest, use a yolk only, if preferred. Do not break membrane of yolk.) 

3. Bake the eggs in a slow oven for a few minutes until they are set; the but- 
tered crumbs in step 1| 6, should brown, and the beaten white of egg in step 1,/, 
should become firm and slightly brown. 

4. Garnish with any of the following: 

Parsley 

Curled celery (good with tomato cups) 
Bacon (good with the boats made from rolls) 
Paprika (if used very sparingly) 

6. Serve the eggs hot. The tomato cup may be placed on a roimd of 
buttered toast before being served. (If preferred, the tomato may be put into 
the oven on a round of bread brushed over with melted butter.) 

Noies: 

1. If desired, baste the eggs with melted butter during the baking process. 

2. The add of the tomato helps to harden the egg albtmiin. 

3. Is the egg-in-tomato cup always advisable in children's diet? 

Egg-in-the-Nest 

{Not baked) 
Ingredients: 

1 yolk of egg, cooked whole in boiling salted water until hard and mealy (see 

Note 2) 
i white of egg beaten stiff 

Method: 

1. Drop beaten white by the spoonful into a basin of water at the simmering 
point; ttim out the gas, cover, and poach 2-6 min., or until egg is light and firm, 
but not tough. 

2. Drain white and place it on hot buttered toast. 

3. Drop the yolk into the center of the white, add salt, and serve at once. 

Noies: 

1. The egg should be fresh and cold. 

2. Beware of breaking the yolk. Retain the yolk in half of the shell, not in a dish, 
while slipping it into the water. 

Eggs Baked in Ramekins 

Mdhod: 

1. Drop one raw egg into each buttered ramekin, being careful not to break 
the yolks. 

2. Add salt and 2-3 tb. cream to each egg. 

3. Bake eggs in a slow oven until they are jellied; avoid toughening the eggs. 

NoU: 

What are shirred eggs? (See any standard Cookbook.) 



DIET FOR CHILDREN 77 

Poached Eggs 

Method: 

1. Fill a saut^ing pan one-half to two-thirds full of boiling salted water, using 
3^ t. salt to 1 c. water. 

2. Butter several English muffin rings aiid place them side by side on the 
bottom of the pan; the water should cover the rings. 

3. Break fresh eggs into separate saucers. 

4. Turn out gas, and, being careful net to break the yolks, slip an egg into 
each ring. 

5. Cover pan, and place it over a flame which will keep the water just below 
the boiling point, for example, 190° F., or 88° C; do not allow the water to boil. 
Cook eggs 5-6 min., or until the whites are firm and jelly-like and the yolks are 
almost hidden from view by a white film. If hard eggs for use in adults' diet are 
desired, let eggs stand 10 min. or longer. (In order that a film may be formed it 
is necessary that the eggs be covered with water during the entire process. Bast- 
ing is not necessary if the pan contains enough water.) 

6. Butter a skimmer or griddlecake turner and slip it in turn beneath each egg 
and its ring; drain well, and slip both Qgg and ring upon a slice (such as a round) 
of buttered toast placed on a hot plate. 

7. Remove rings, sprinkle eggs with salt and bits of butter, and garnish with 
toast points, sprigs of parsley, or curled celery. 

Notes: 

1. Any of the rules as to temperature for cooking eggs in the shell may also be applied 
to poaching and other methods for cooking eggs. Eggs that are cooked slowly in water 
below 212° F., or 100° C, are of better flavor than the tougher products which result from 
high temperatures. Note objections to poaching in boiling water: 

Egg is torn to pieces in the beginning. 
Egg is finally toughened. 
Define the term "poached." Define basting. 

2. Do not handle the egg roughly at any step, else the yolk is likely to break. 

3. Eggs may be served on any of the following: 

Toast, cut roimd or square 

Shredded wheat biscuit, toasted 

Cereal flakes, toasted (such as com or wheat) 

Moimd of any of the following: 

Cereal, cooked (such as rice) 

Flour paste, cooked (macaroni or spaghetti) 

Potatoes, mashed 

Spinach, boiled and minced 

4. Note possible utensils for keeping the egg round in poaching: 

A patented egg-poacher 

A buttered poaching cup, muffin ring, or cooky-cutter 
A large spoon 
The Qgg can be successfully poached without the aid of any of these utensils. When 
none of the utensils is used, a little vinegar is sometimes added to poaching water; add 



78 



LESSONS IN COOKERY 



hardens albumin and thus preserves the shape of egg. Beware of the use of an iron pan 
with vinegar or of excess vinegar. 

5. Unbeaten egg steamed, similar to poached egg, is prepared as follows: 

a. Butter a ramekin or a small muffin tin, cup, or saucer. 

b. Drop a raw egg into it and add salt and bits of butter. 

c. Steam it as one would a custard; that is, place the utensil in a pan of water 
just below the boiling point, cover, and steam several minutes in oven or on 
top of range. 

Precautions: Do not boil the water at any time. K a saucer is used, an 
inverted bowl should be placed imder it. 

6. For variations for use chiefly in adults' diet, see Appendix G, page 213, Note 1. 



Ingredients: 

He. 
It. 
dash ' 
spk. 
dash 
M slice 
J^egg 
Ht. 
H t. 



Poached Eggs with Tomato Sauce 

(Far older children or adults) 

2 c. strained, stewed tomatoes 

3 tb. sweet green pepper, shredded 
Salt 

Paprika 
Sprinkle of sugar 

4 slices toast, round or diamond-shaped 
4 eggs, poached in water 

1 1. lemon juice 
1 tb, butter 



Method: 

1. Simmer a mixture of the first five ingredients until it is reduced one-half 
in volume. 

2. Place the tomato mixture on a platter, and arrange the toast on top. 

3. Place a poached egg upon each slice of toast. 

4. Sprinkle eggs with lemon juice, bits of butter, salt, and paprika. 

5. Garnish with parsley, and serve. 



Scrambled Eggs 



Ingredients: 




Hegg 


4 eggs 


Itb. 


J^ c. milk or cream 


dash 


Ht. salt 


Mt. 


0-2 tb. butter 



Mdhod: 

1. Beat eggs slightly, and add salt and milk or cream. 

2. Melt butter in a double boiler, and add egg mixttire. 

3. Cook mixttire in the double boiler imtil it is creamy, keeping it in large 



DIET FOR CHILDREN 79 

flakes as far as possible; scrape the thickened mixture from the bottom and sides as 
rapidly as it forms. Do not beat or stir too much, else the flakes will be destroyed. 
4. Serve at once, on toast if desired. 

NoUa: 

1. Another possible method for use with scrambled eggs is as foUom: 

a. Scald milk in a double boiler. 

5. Add butter, salt, and hot milk to well-beaten eggs. 

c. Cook mixture in a double boiler tmtil it is creamy. 

2. Eggs are always better scrambled at a low temperature, for example, in a double 
boiler. (Why?) 

3. Either the yolks or whites alone may be used, if preferred to the whole eggs. Water 
is sometimes substituted for part Of the milk or cream. 

4. For additions to this recipe and the two succeeding recipes, for use in adults' diet, 
see Appendix G, page 213, Note 2. 



Ingredients: 
J^egg 

dash 
Mt. 



Scraxnbled-Egg Omelet 

4 eggs 

4 tb. milk or cream (or water) 

Mt. salt 

13^ t. butter (or a little more if the omelet begins to stidc to the pan) 



Method: 

1. Beat the yolks and whites of eggs together until they are very light; if 
preferred, beat them only slightly. 

2. Add the salt and milk or cream (or water) and pour mixture into a hot 
saut^ing pan in which the butter has been melted. 

3. Heating slowly, and allowing the raw portion to slip tmdemeath all the time, 
pick up the cooked portions with a fork or spatula; work quickly. 

4. When the entire mixture is creamy and firm and the under surface is 
smooth and set, fold omelet in half, or roll it like a jelly roll. (See Notes 3 and 4.) 

6. Turn omelet upon a hot platter by inverting first the platter and then 
the pan. 

6. Garnish with parsley and serve at once. (Why serv^ at once?) 

A/bfes; 

1. This omelet differs from scrambled eggs in that it is lighter in texture. What are 
the causes of this lightness? 

2. Use a low temperature throughout; it is well to use an asbestos mat. 

3. Avoid overcooking the omelet, else it will so harden in lumps that it cannot be folded. 

4. Do not stir the omelet for the last minute before it is folded, since it will break in 
folding unless the under side is allowed to harden or set for a short time. 

5. The class recipe is so small that it must be cooked on one side only of a saut6ing pan. 
Fold it in half before serving. 



80 



LESSONS IN COOKERY 





Spanish Eggs 


Ingredients: 




J^egg 
1-2 1. 


4 eggs 

yi c. strained tomato pu^ 

Ht.salt 

0-2 tb. butter 



Method: 

Follow the method for scrambled eggs, page 78. 

NoUa: 

1. Beware of overcooking the mixture, else it will be tough. 

2. This recipe is derived from scrambled eggs, page 78, by the substitution of tomato 
juice for the milk or cream. Less liquid is used than in plain scrambled eggs because the 
add of tomato juice toughens eggs. 



MEAT AND FISH 

Scraped-Meat Balls 

Method: ' 

1. Remove fat from round steak or other meat. 

2. Wipe meat, place it on a meat board, and separate the red pulp from the 
tough white connective tissue by scraping gently with a silver knife or spoon. 

3. Make the pulp Into small, flat cakes J^" thick, broil them 2-3 min., then 
add salt and serve. Avoid overcooking and the addition of any fat. 

Notes: 

1. Avoid adding salt in the beginning to any broiled meat, since salt extracts the juice 
and so toughens the meat. 

2. What are the advantages of scraped meat? 

3. a. Give scraped-meat balls to younger children. Such balls, cooked rare, are some- 

times recommended for very young children, even those in the second year. 
h. Give non-scraped-meat balls to older children. (These ordinary meat balls are 
prepared in the same way as scraped-meat balls except that the meat is ground, 
not scraped. A little butter, also lemon juice, is sometimes added to the cooked 
balls.) 

4. Scraped-meat balls are useful in invalids' diet as well as in children's diet. 

Meat Stew 

Method: 

1. Secure a tender cut of beef, mutton, or lamb. 

2. Remove all fat, and cut the meat into \^-}/z cubes. 

3. Barely cover with water, put lid on pan, and simmer meat tmtil it is very 
tender. 

4. Add salt and serve. 

Ncie: 

Any of the following ingredients, cut into small pieces, may be added in the beginning 
or soon afterward: 

Carrots Parsley 

Cauliflower Potato 

Celery Spinach 

Onion Etc. 

Chicken Stew 

Method: 

1. Cut up a dressed chicken, following the same rules as for a cooked chicken 
(see Diet J or Adults, pages 32-33). 

81 
6 



82 LESSONS IN COOKERY 

2. Stew the chicken, tising the following general rules: 

a. Cover chicken with hot or cold water, then bring it quickly to the 
boiling point. 

b. Reduce temperature to 180® F. (82® C), or simmering point, and keep 
stew at this temperature until meat is tender. 

c. Add salt and paprika, remove meat, and thicken gravy. 

Pressed Chicken 

Method: 

1. Cut up a raw 3J^ lb. chicken into pieces such as are used for stew. 

2. Barely cover them with water, put lid on pan, and simmer chicken until 
the meat falls from the bones. 

3. Drain the meat and remove the bones, 

4. Cut the meat into neat slices, or chop it" fine if preferred. 

6. Season the meat with celery salt, 2 t. lemon juice, and salt to taste (about 
2 t.), then place it in an oblong bread pan. 

6. Boil down the chicken liquor to 1 c. 

7. Dissolve in this 1 c. boiling-hot liquor 4 t. granulated gelatin previously 
soaked in 4 tb. cold water. 

8. Pour liquor over the meat and press hard, then add a heavy weight and 
let mold stand in a cold place until it is firm. 

9. Turn mold out upon a platter and garnish with parsley and slices of 
lemon. Slice. 

Notes: 

1. This recipe is excellent for use in packing children's lunch boxes. 

2. The recipe yields a very firm mold; if a mold less solid with meat is preferred, boil 
down the Hquor to 1 J^2 c. rather than to 1 c. 

3. For variations for use in adults' diet, see Appendix G, page 213, Note 3. 

Cold Creamed Chicken 

Method: 

1. Dip slices of light (or dark) meat of chicken into a thick rich cream sauce 
to which yolk of egg has been added. 

2. Place slices on platter,* garnish, and chill. 

Boiled Fish 

Method: 

1. Clean fish and tie it in cheesecloth. 

2. Carefully lower the fish into boiling water to cover, using a wire basket, if 
desired. Reduce temperature at once; do not boil fish. To each qtiart of water 
used, add the following: 

1 1. salt (adds to flavor of fish) 

1 tb. vinegar or lemon juice (helps to keep fish white) 



DIET FOR CHILDREN 83 

3. Cover and simmer fish, 180® F., or 82** C, only until the flesh begins to 
slip away from the bone (see Note 4). 

4. Lift fish from water by means of the cheesecloth. 

6. Drain, and place fish on a hot platter. Remove skin, if desired. 
6. Garnish with parsley and slices of egg and lemon. 

NoUs: 

1. A better title for this recipe is "simmered fish." Note two reasons for not boiling 
fish: 

Protein is toughened. 
Fish is torn to pieces. 

2. Fish for boiling: 

Thick slices of large fish (halibut, etc.) 

Whole small fish, with the heads and tails usually removed (bass, cod, haddock, 
etc., are often small enough to cook whole) 

3. The time required for cooking the fish varies according to the size and thickness of 
fish. The average time for a thick slice is 30-40 min. On an average, allow 6-8 n\\r\, of 
simmering to each pound of fish. 

4. Caution: Do not overcook any fish. An overboiled fish is soft and watery. Fish 
cooked by boiling, broiling, or any other method is done the instant the flesh separates 
easily from the bone ; it is overdone if the flakes fall apart easily. (Fish varies in the dryness 
of the flesh, but there is no such thing as tough fish.) 

5. For variations for use in adults' diet, see Appendix G, page 214, Note 6, 

Steamed Fish 

Method: 

1. Wash the fish and dry it with a cloth. 

2. Rub it with salt and pepper, and lay strips of salt pork (half lean) on top. 

3. Spread on a plate a piece of cheesecloth a little larger than the plate, lay 
fish on the cloth, and set the whole in a steamer. 

4. Cook fish tmtil it is done (see Note 4 of preceding recipe), allowing 15-25 
min. for a 2-lb. fish. 

Notes: 

1. Skin the fish and remove bones before steaming, if desired. 

2. In class line a small sieve with cheesecloth, put in fish, cover sieve, and steam over 
a deep saucepan of boiling water. 

Baked Fish 

Method: 

1. Wash fish, dry it, and dredge it with a mixture of salt and flour. 

2. Place fish on one of the following (either is an aid in lifting the fish from pan 
after baking) : 

Strips of muslin or cheesecloth 
Greased fish sheet 

3. Place fish on a greased rack in a dripping pan. 



84 LESSONS IN COOKERY 

4. Lay strips of fat salt pork on the fish, the same as over a roast of meat; 
this fat dispenses with all or nearly all need of basting. If the fish so dries on top 
that it must be basted, baste every 10-16 min. with a mixture of butter or other 
fat and a very little water. 

5. Cover utensil, and bake the fish in a hot oven until the flesh separates readily 
from the bones when tested with a fork; as a rule, allow 10-12 min. to a 
pound of fish. 

6. Place fish on a platter, remove any string or skewers, and garnish with 
any of the following: 

Potato roses or other border-garnish (see recipe below) 

Parsley or cress 

Slices of egg or lemon 

Egg sauce, very simple (used in moderation) 

Notes: 

1. The head and tail (but not fins) are often left on the fish. If the head and tail are 
retained, the fish may be skewered into the form of a letter S before being baked. 

2. If desired, bone the fish before it is baked. 

3. If the fish is at all oily, omit the strips of pork. 

4. For stuffed and planked fish for use in adults' diet, see Appendix G, page 214, 
Notes 6 and 7. 



Potato Border-Garnish 

{A derivative of mashed potatoes) 
Method: 

!• Boil potatoes (white or sweet), mash them well, add seasonings, and whip 
until they are very light. A good proportion consists of the following: 

1 c. mashed potatoes 

1}4 tb. butter 

1 or 2 yolks of eggs, beaten (or 1 whole egg) 

/i t. salt 

If the potatoes are very dry, it is sometimes necessary to add a little hot milk 
or cream. 

2. Place mixture in a pastry bag and shape it on a well-buttered tin into roses, 
rings, or a plain or fancy border. 

3. Sprinkle the forms with paprika and brown in oven; if desired, brush them, 
with yolk or white of egg before they are baked. 

4. Remove the forms with a spatula and use them (together with parsley) as 
a border-garnish for various fish, meat, and egg dishes. Potato roses are popular 
with baked fish. 

iVofe: 

Squash border-garnish (but not carrot) may be prepared by this same method. 
Experiment with other vegetables. 



DIET FOR CHILDREN 85 

MEAT AND FISH FOR CHILDREN: A SYNOPSIS 

This sjmopsis deals with. the choice of, and methods for cooking, meat and fish for 
children. (Reasons for the various suggestions are included in the parenthetical clauses.) 

1. Buy fresh meat and fish. (There is danger of bacteria and ptomaine 
poisons from stale meat and fish.) 

2. Buy tender cuts of meat in preference to tough cuts. (Proper cooking of 
tough cuts is often neglected.) 

3. Buy meat of short fiber rather than of long fiber. (Short-fibered meat, 
such as squab and light meat of chicken, is more easily digested.) 

4. Serve young children the light meat of chicken and turkey rather than 
the dark. (The light meat contains less fat and connective tissue than the dark, 
hence it is likely to be somewhat more rapidly digested, at least in the stomach.) 

5. Scrape or chop fresh meats in many cases; see, for example, use of Ham- 
burg steak. (Most children are careless about chewing meat. Chopping of meat 
averts danger of this kind.) 

6. Avoid left-overs in naeat and fish, especially in hot weather, even though 
the foods are kept in the refrigerator. (Refrigerator may not be in a sanitary 
condition; and, too, ptomaines are likely to result from decomposing protein 
foods.) 

7. Avoid any other than platter gravy. (The high fat content of most other 
gravies is injurious.) 

8. Avoid high seasonings. (High seasonings irritate the digestive organs and 
peryert the appetite.) 

9. Avoid fat, observing the following rules. (Excess fat, such as that found 
in fat pork, duck, and goose, hinders digestion. Children also dislike animal fat, 
as a rule.) 

a. Buy meats and fish containing but little fat, and serve chiefly the 
lean parts (see Note 3). 

b. Avoid the addition of fat in the cooking of meat and fish. The 
following methods are excellent in that no fat need be added* 

Grill-broiling 

Pan-broiling 

Roasting • - 

Boiling 
Grill-broiling is preferable to pan-broiling in the preparation of meat 
for children and iiivalids because the meat is kept so very free from 
fat. This applies to steaks, chops, meat balls, etc. 

Notes: 

1. The meat of very yoimg animals, such as veal, is sometimes objectionable in that, 
because of its slippery quality, it may be swallowed without being masticated. (Note 
similar objection to hot breads.) 

2. See. Food Economy, pages 107-110, for further notes on meats. 



88 



LESSONS IN COOKERY 



3. The following table gives a method of classifying vertebrate fish according to rich- 
infat: 



MucbPat 
(Ovw 6 per cant) 


Mbdium OuAMTmr of Pat 
(Between 2 and 6 per cent) 


Vkrt Littlb Pat 
(Leas than 2 per oenO 


f 







Let the pupil tabulate the following-named fish^ according to the foregoing headings: 

Bass, black Salmon 

Cod Sardines 

Haddock Shad 

Halibut Smelts 

Herring Trout 

Mackerel Tuna 

Perch Weakfish 

Pickerel Whitefish 

Let the pupil list six to eight examples of each of the following: 

a. Dark, or dly, fish (more oil is found in this than in light-colored fish, and this 
oil is found throughout the body) 

b. Light-colored fish (the oil in this is fotmd chiefly in the liver; see page 70> 
Note 3) 

(Use only light-colored fish in cooking for children and invalids.) 
4. Many of the suggestions given in this synopsis are also applicable in the diets fo9 
old age, indigestion, malnutrition, and invalids' diets in general. 



^Po^ additions to the list of fish, see "The Chemical Composition of American Food 
Materi^l^," PfdleUn No. $8^ U.S. Department of Agriculture, Office of Experiment Stations. 



VEGETABLES 

Vegetables, because of their mineral-matter content and other nutrients, are essential 
in children's diet; for example, spinach and other leafy vegetables are valued for their iron 
and the vitamine classed as fat-soluble A. 

Very often children have to be taught to eat vegetables; note ways of serving vegetables 
to children who do not like plain boiled or steamed vegetables: 
In meat stews In gravies 

In meat soups (such as Scotch broth) Creamed on toast 

Escalloped In cream soups 

NON-ACID VEGETABLES CREAMED 

General Recipe 
Method: 

1. Cut a hot or cold (left-over) cooked vegetable in small pieces, such as J^*' 
cubes, 14'^ slices, or small balls; if desired, strain peas and com (see Notes 
1 and 2). 

2. Almost cover the vegetable with a medium white sauce (hot) (see Note A) 
or hot cream or milk, and heat the mixttire 3-4 min. 

3. Add salt, and garnish with sprigs of parsley. If desired, serve the vegetable 
on a slice of toast or in a toast box or croustade (see Food Economy, page 64, for 
use of Swedish timbales, etc., in diet for adults). 

Notes: 

1. Various vegetables, such as the following, may be creamed singly or in any suitable 
combination; the use of certain of these vegetables (such as cabbage, com, and turnips) 
is sometimes questionable in children's diet, particularly for younger children: 
Beans, string Corn 

Cabbage (see Note 2) Onions 

Carrots Peas, green 

CauHflower Potatoes 

Celery Turnips 

As a rule, cold or left-over cooked vegetables (boiled, steamed, or baked) are used; 
however, freshly cooked or canned vegetables may be used. Baked potatoes are especially 
good for creaming. 

Certain raw vegetables, such as potatoes, carrots, and turnips, may be cubed, boiled 
or steamed, and then creamed; or raw vegetable balls may be formed and creamed as 
follows: 

a. Pare a vegetable and form small balls from it by means of a French vegetable 
scoop or cutter. 

b. Boil or steam balls until they are tender. 

87 



88 LESSONS IN COOKERY 

c. Drain balls, and cream them according to steps 2 and 8 of the foregoing general 
method. Note the following class recipe: 
3 or 4 vegetable balls 
White sauce (two recipes are given) : 

IH t. flour / 5i t. flour 

H t. butter or a substitute iHt, butter or a substitute 
2 tb. milk ( 3 tb. milk 

Salt 
Parsley, chopped fine 

2. Cabbage should be boiled for a short time only, for example, 10-15 min. See 
recipe, Diet for Adults , page 149. 

3. Salt and butter are the only seasonings for vegetables allowable for young children. 

4. All white sauces for children should be made by the dietetic method (see Food Econ- 
omy, pages 70-71; see also Note 1, under "Asparagus," Diet for Children, page 48). 

6. For variations for use chiefly in adidts' diet, see Appendix G, page 215, Note 1. 

NON-ACID VEGETABLES ESCALLOPED 

(Milk or white sauce used) 

General Recipe 

Method. 

1. Cut a hot or cold (left-over) cooked vegetable in small pieces, such as J^*' 
cubes, 14" slices, or small balls; if desired, strain peas and com (see foregoing 
Notes 1 and 2). 

2. Place alternate layers of the following in a buttered baking dish: 

Vegetable 

Seasonings (see foregoing Note 3) 

Hot milk or cream or mediimi white sauce (see foregoing Note 4) 

3. Cover mixture with buttered crumbs, and bake it 10-16 min., or until it 
is brown and hot throughout. 

Notes: 

1. Inasmuch as this recipe is a derivative of non-acid vegetables creamed, Notes 1-5 
of 'the recipe on page 87 also apply here. Note an exception to the first of these general 
rules for vegetables: certain raw vegetables, such as potatoes and com, may be escalloped. 

2. Tomato sauce, or simply strained tomato pulp, is often substituted for milk, cream, 
or white sauce in the preparation of escalloped cabbage and other vegetables; the add is 
of use. in disintegrating the cellulose. 

3. See Food Economy, page 80, for a method for escalloped dishes in general. 

4. The following specific recipes for potatoes and onions are typical of all recipes for 
starchy vegetables and juicy vegetables, respectively. 

Escalloped Potatoes 

Method: 

1. Wash, pare, soak until crisp (if wilted), and cut raw potatoes in J^"-Ji" 
slices. A slicer (ordinarily used for potato chips) is a convenience. 



DIET FOR CHILDREN 89 

2. Place a layer of potato slices in a buttered baking dish and sprinkle it with 
flour, salt, and small bits of butter (see page 88, Note 3). 

3. Repeat putting in alternate layers of potatoes, flour, and seasonings. 

4. Add hot milk almost to cover, and bake potatoes IJ^ hr., or until they are 
tender and brown. 

Nole: 

Cold (left-over) cooked potatoes may be substituted for the raw potatoes, but the result- 
ant dish is not so good. 

Escalloped Onions 
Method: 

1. Boil onions until they are tender, then slice or chop them; Spanish onions 
are attractive left whole. 

2. Almost fill a baking dish with alternate layers of onions, white sauce, and 
seasonings (chopped parsley, etc.), then cover the top with buttered cnmibs. 

3. Bake mixture 10-16 min., or until it is brown and hot throughout. 

NoU: 

In cooking for adults, and occasionally for older children, grated cheese (sprinkled over 
the buttered crumbs) is often a good addition to this recipe. 

ACm VEGETABLES ESCALLOPED 

{Milk or white sauce not used) 

Escalloped Tomatoes 
Method: 

1. Scald, peel, slice tomatoes, and place a layer of slices in a buttered baking dish. 

2. Sprinkle this layer with each of the following seasonings: 

Sugar 

Salt 

Onion juice 

Melted butter (or bits of butter) 

3. Add a thin layer of one of the following starchy (thickening) materials: 

Cracker crumbs, coarse (generally used) 
Bread crumbs, coarse 
Flour paste (such as macaroni) 
Rice or hominy 

4. Repeat putting in layers of tomatoes, seasonings, aiid starchy material. 
6. Cover mixture with buttered crumbs and bake 15-20 min., or until tomatoes 

are tender and the top surface is brown. 

Notes: 

1. Certain fats, such as com oil, may be substituted for butter. 

2. Why not use milk in this recipe? 

3. Tomatoes are the only add vegetable commonly eaten. 



BEVERAGES 
Cambric Tea 



Ingredients: 
Itb. 
3tb. 
dash 



14 c. milk or cream, scalded 
1-1 J^ c. boiiing water 
Sugar to taste 



Method: 

Mix all the ingredients, and serve at once. 



Cinnamon Tea 

{A derivative of cambric tea) 



Ingredients: 

2tb. 

2tb. 

dash 

dash 



1 c. milk, scalded 
1 c. boiling water 
0-1 J^ t. sugar 
Cinnamon 



Mdhod: 

Pour a mixture of the first three ingredients into a hot cup, and sprinkle it 
with cinnamon. 



Ingredients: 

He 
Itb. 
spk. 



Cereal Coffee (Cooked) 

1 c boiling water 

2 tb. cereal coffee (average quantity used) 
Dash of salt^ 



Method: 

1. Tie cereal coffee in a double or triple thickness of cheesecloth, place this 
bag in a coffee pot, add water, simmer 20 min., then remove bag. 

2. Serve beverage with sugar and a choice of the following: 

Rich cream 

Evaporated milk 

Scalded milk (on the order of caf6 au lait) 

Notes: 

1. Dispense with the bag and use a percolator, if preferred. 

2. A beverage is sometimes made by boiling carrots (parched, then powdered) in water. 
Vanilla is a good addition. 

90 



DIET FOR CHILDREN 91 

Crust Coffee 



Ingredients: 

Ho. 

2t. 

dash 

Itb. 



3-4 c. boiling water 

}4-}4 c. hot milk or cream 

Salt 

1 c. bread crumbs (see note) 



Method: 

1. Add the crumbs to the boiling water, simmer 5-15 min., then strain. 

2. Add milk or cream and salt, and serve; a little sugar is sometimes relished. 

Noie: 

Secure the crumbs in the following way: 

a. Toast any one of the following breads until it is very crisp and a golden brown 
(do not bum it) : ' 

Boston brown 
Graham 
White 
Whole wheat 

b. Roll bread into fine crumbs by means of a rolling pin. 

Apple Water 

Ingredients: 



H apple 

Ht. 

He 



2 large sour apples 
1-2 tb. sugar 
2 c. boiling water 



Method: 

1. Wipe and core apples. 

2. Fill the cavities with sugar, and bate apples until they are tender. 

3. Mash, add water, and let mixture stand in a cool place 1-2 hr. 

4. Strain, and serve cold as a beverage, with sugar and lemon juice to taste. 

Notes: 

1. Apple water is sometimes prepared by pouring boiling water over fresh or dried 
apples which have been groimd in a meat-grinder; let mixture stand 1-2 hr., strain, and 
serve as above. A red apple, unpared, is desirable from the standpoint of color. 

2. If desired, heat the strained apple water and serve it hot. 

Cocoa-Shell Tea 

Ingredients: 

Ho. I 4 c. boiling water 

1 tb. I )4~1 o. cocoa shells 

Method: 

1. Add the shells to the water, cover, and boil 5 min. 



92 



LESSONS IN COOKERY 



2. Strain, and serve with any of ihe following, as desired: 
Cream, scalding hot 
Milk, scalding hot 
Sugar 

NoU: 

It is often an economy to save the shells so as to prepare a second quantity of tea 
from them. The average price of shells is 12 cents per pound. 



Ingredients: 

Ht. 
Itb. 
4tb. 



Cocoa 

IH tb. sugar (or to taste) 

2 tb. cocoa 

J^ c. cold water 

2 c. whole milk, scalded in a double boiler 

He t. salt 



Method: 

1. Stir a mixture of the first three ingredients over a low flame 3-5 min., or 
until the paste is so thick that the spoon leaves a track. 

2. Add hot milk to the paste, stirring constantly; add the milk gradually, else 
specks of chocolate are likely to form. 

3. Heat the beverage to the scalding point (there is no necessity for boiling it). 

4. Add the salt, then, keeping the beverage over a low flame, form a heavy 
. froth on top by beating the beverage with a Dover or turbine beater (the froth 

prevents formation of a scum of protein material). Serve the cocoa at once. 

A/ofes; 

1. Chocolate is so rich in fat that it is seldom adaptable to children's diet. Note the 
following recipe (made by the same method as for cocoa) : 

J^ t. 2 tb. sugar (or to taste) 

J^ t. 1 square of bitter chocolate, shaved thin or grated 

2 tb. % c. water 

3 tb. 2}4 c. whole milk, scalded in a doubls boiler 
dash Ke t. salt 

2. Dr. Goldthwaite^ notes the high protein value of cocoa and chocolate made with 
skim milk. Since protein is one of the essentials for growth in children, certain of Dr. 
Goldthwaite's recipes are quoted as follows : 



COCOA 

2% tb. sugar 
6 tb. cocoa 
1 c. cold water 
3 c. skim milk 
4t. cream 



COCOA 

2% tb. sugar 
3J^ tb. cocoa 
1 c. cold water 
3 c. skim milk 
4tb. cream 



CHOCOLATE 

2% tb. sugar 

2 squares of bitter chocolate 
1 c. cold water 

3 c. skim rnilk 

4 tb. cream 



»Nellie E. Goldthwaite, "Chocolate and Cocoa," University of lUinois BuUetin No. 4S. 



DIET FOR CHILDREN 93 

3. The brand and individtial taste make a difference in the quantity of cocoa or chocolate 
used in the redpes. 

4. Are the following correct reasons for boiling cocoa or chocolate paste so thoroughly? 
(Note that both cocoa and chocolate are rich in starch.) 

a. Uncooked cocoa or chocolate is not soluble in water, hence it sinks to the 

bottom of the cup. 
5. Flavor of beverage is improved. 
c, DigestibiUty of beverage is increased. 
In making either beverage, why avoid cooking the milk for as long a time as the paste? 
.n the cooking of cocoa or chocolate paste (see step 1), a white scum forms; remove 
scum and test it with iodine (for starch), also with nitric add (for protein). 

5. For variations for use in adults* diet chiefly, see Appendix G, page 215, Note 2. 

BEVERAGES ALLOWED CHILDREN: A SYNOPSIS i 

♦Buttennilk (fresh) 
♦Cambric tea 

Cereal coffees: 

Commerdal cereal coffees 
Homemade cereal coffees (such as barley or rye) 
*CJocoa and chocolate (see Notes 1 and 3) 

Cocoa-shell tea 

Crust coffee (from browned crusts of bread) 

Fruit juice, from raw or cooked fruit (juice pure* or made into "ades") 
♦Malted milk 
♦Malted nuts 
♦Milk 

Water (in abundance) 

Notts: 

1. Food beverages: An asterisk as used in the foregoing list denotes a food beverage. 
Such a beverage is permitted in a menu only when due allowance is made for its high food 
value; for example, note that malted milk should be the main part of a meal, not a supple- 
mentary part. Milk may be used in abimdance as a beverage if it is borne in mind that 
mWXc is a real food and that it shotdd be sipped. 

Cocoa and chocolate are hearty foods (pupil to state the percentage of protein, fat, 
and starch in these beverages). Chocolate disagrees with many stomachs because it is 
rich in fat; cocoa is usually safer on account of its low fat content. "For school children 
a warm liquid is desirable at noon. This may be soup or cocoa. Chocolate is too rich. 
The fact that fats remain longer in the stomach than other substances makes it particularly 
undesirable to serve fatty foods at noon if the child is to return soon to work."^ 

Cambric tea is one of the best beverages for children. It warms, stimulates, and 
yet leaves no harmful effects. 

"The suggestions given in this synopsis are also safe rules ^or the guidance of many adults, 
especially invalids. 

^Caroline L. Hunt, "The Daily Meals of School Children," BuUeHn, 1909, No. 3, U.S. 
Bureau of Education. 



©4 LESSONS IN COOKERY 

2. Beverages of litUe or no food value: Cocoa shells, or the outside of cocoa beans, 
make a beverage of very little food value. 

Cereal coffees are of little or no food value except for the cream and sugar added; any 
possible value in the beverages lies in the fact that they are hot and that they are not injuri- 
ous to the nerves. Either roasted or unroasted kernels of barley and rye may be purchased ; 
it is a very simple process to roast the raw kernels at home. Pupil to secure the names of 
various brands of each of the following types of commercial cereal coffees:' 
a. Cereal coffees which require cooking 

J. Instant forms of cereal coffees (These are by far the more convenient; place 
3^1 1. in a cup, add boiling water almost to fill the cup, and serve with sugar 
and cream.) 

Only those fruit juices which contain very little add should be used in beverages for 
children; lemonade, as a rule, should be avoided. Very acid beverages are not advisable 
for children or adults. Grape juice and lemonade, if used to any extent, shotdd be in a 
diluted form. The former has a great tendency to ferment in some stomachs. (Note the 
use of fruit soups in children's and adults' diet.) 

3. Stimulating beverages, such as the following, are forbidden children: 

Beer and other alcoholic drinks 
Coffee and tea 

Neither tea nor coffee is a food. Both take away appetite for food and hinder growth. 

Both cocoa and chocolate are objectionable for very young or nervous children because 
of their stimtdating element, theobromine. Children over six may drink weak cocoa or 
cocoa-shell tea occasionally, making the beverage with milk. Never allow the child to 
have cocoa or chocolate except when these are made with a large proportion of milk 
and a very small quantity of cocoa or chocolate. 

The Kellogg Food Company manufactures Health Koko, a powder (for use in making 
a beverage) consisting chiefly of cocoa from which the theobromine has been extracted. 
The same company uses in its candies a chocolate from which the theobromine has been 
extracted, 

4. Yotmg children should beware of soda-fountains. Pupil to ascertain (a) whether 
carbonated beverages and Coco Cola are injurious; (fi) whether they have any advantages. 



1 qt. fresh whole milk (raw or Pasteurized) 

1 junket tablet (such as Hansen's) 

1 tb. cx)ld water 

2-8 tb. sugar 

1-2 1. vanilla, or to taste 

Dash of salt 



DESSERTS MADE ON A MILE BASIS 
Junket, or Jellied Milk 

Ingredients: 

Hc-H tablet 

Jit. 

Ht. 

4d. 

spk. 

Method: 

1. Heat the milk in a double boiler to lukewarm, or blood, temperature (98. 6® 
F., or 37** C.) ; if a thermometer is not available, use the wrist test for blood heat. 
Avoid a temperature over OS^^-KX)** F., else the tablet solution to be added in step 
4 will not act easily, if at all. 

2. Dissolve the sugar in the milk. 

3. Dissolve the tablet in the cold water. 

4. Mix all the ingredients in recipe and stir well for a few seconds only. 

6. Pour mixture at once into sherbet or other pretty glasses in which the 
junket is to be served, and place them in a warm, but not a hot, place. 

6. Without moving or stirring the junket during the setting process, let it 
stand J^ hr., or tmtil firm. 

7. Chill junket as soon as it is firm. 

8. Serve the dessert as soon as possible (it has a tendency to curdle if allowed 
to stand for any length of time). Sprinkle junket with cinnamon or nutmeg and 
powdered or granulated sugar. Serve it with cream or soft custard; the cream 
may be whipped, if preferred, then sweetened and flavored. 

Notts: 

1. The dessert is tough if more than 1 tablet is used to 1 qt. milk. Note the following 
points with regard to the class recipe: 

Advantage of using He tablet: A more delicate, or tender, junket results. 
Advantage of using ^ tablet: Time for setting is greatly reduced (recipe sets 
in 10-15 min.). 
Junket tablets are sold for 10-15 cents per bottle at most drug stores. 4 t. rennet 
(a liquid) may be substituted for 1 junket tablet in the large recipe. 

2. Note types of milk which cannot be used in making junket: 

Condensed milk (sweetened or unsweetened) 
Malted milk 

Milk diluted to any extent with water 
Milk containing preservatives 

96 



96 LESSONS IN COOKERY 

Junket can be made from boiled (sterilized) nulk only when the boiled milk is treated 
as follows: 

a. Cool it to blood heat. 

b. Add twice as much junket as is used in the foregoing recipe. 

3. Beaten raw egg is a possible addition to junket. 

4. Note possible flavorings for junket: 

Caramel sirup (substitute 1 tb. cold sirup for 1 tb. sugar) 
Coffee 

Fruit juice (such as orange) 
Vanilla or other e3rtract 

Vanilla and cocoa (Mix 3-4 tb. cocoa with a Httle water and stir over the fire 
to make a very thick paste. Add 1 qt. milk to the paste, then blend with 
vanilla and a dissolved junket tablet.) 
Cocoa is stimulating to the nerves, hence it is to be avoided in the feeding of young 
children. Coffee is so stimulating that it should be avoided with children of all ages. 

5. DeHcate pink or other coloring paste may be added to junket. Possible garnishes 
include the following, most of which, if used with moderation, are allowable for children: 

Cake crumbs (such as sponge cake) 

Coconut, freshly shredded 

Meringue (poached or not before being heaped on junket) 

Nuts, chopped 

Fruit: 

Candied (cherries, etc.) Chopped (pineapple, etc.) 

Jam (such as strawberry) Sliced (such as bananas or oranges) 

Jelly, bright-<x)lored Whole (raspberries, strawberries, 

Juice loganberries, etc.) 

6. It is often well to hasten the setting process by placing the molds in a pan of warm 
water (temperature of water not to exceed 98**-100® F.). 

7. Advantages of junket as a dessert are as follows: 

Inexpensive, simple, and easily prepared 

Dainty and nutritious - 

Easily digested (and so especially wholesome for those of weak digestion, such 

as children and invalids) 
Useful as a method for giving milk to children and invalids 

8. A smooth, rich ice cream can be made with but a small quantity of cream if junket 
is used as the basis of the ice cream. 

SEA-MOSS DESSERTS 

Irish-Mo88 Mold 

Ingredients: U servings) 

1 1. 23^tb.dry Irish moss (measured after sand and soiled particles have been 

removed and moss has been clipped with shears into pieces almost as 

fine as bran) 
^ C. .2 c. milk, scalding hot 

i4t* 2 tb. sugar 

dash H t. salt 

6 d. M t. vanilla 



DIET FOR CHILDREN 97 

Method: 

1. Cover clipped moss with cold water and let it stand 15 min. 
2* Drain, and pick it over carefully. 

3. Add moss to milk, and, stirring occasionally, cook mixture in a double 
boiler 30 min., or until a few drops thicken quickly on a cold plate. (Cook the 
class recipe 15-20 min. in a double boiler.) 

4. Strain the mixture through a fine sieve, pressing little, if any, of the solid 
moss through the sieve. 

6. Add sugar, salt, and vanilla, and pom* mixture into molds wet with cold 
water. 

6. Chill 30-40 min., or until mixture sets, turn out, surrotmd with fruit (such 
as slices of banana or orange), and serve as a dessert with cream and sugar. 

Notts: 

1. A chocolate mold is derived as follows from the recipe: 

a. Mix the foUowitig ingredients and stir over a low direct flame until the mix-* 
ture is as thick as a drop batter: 



It. 

Mt. 

2t. 



^ square of bitter chocolate, grated 

2 tb. sugar 

3 tb. cold water 



h. Slowly beat the pudding (flavored, strained, and still hot) into this chocolate 

paste. 
c. Add % t. extra vanilla (IJ^ t. total). 

2. Other possible additions, include: 

Chopped nuts, figs, etc. 

Pink, or other tint 

Eggs, beaten or unbeaten (add whole eggs, yolks alone, or whites only) 

3. Any of the following may be substituted for part or all of the milk: 

Fruit juice 

Jelly or jam (diluted with water) 
Thin cream 

Water (If water is the only liquid, Irish-moss jelly results; simmer moss in 
water until almost all dissolved. Lemon juice is a good flavoring.) 

4. Milk jelly is prepared by omitting all but milk and moss from the given recipe. If 
milk jelly is served hot and liqtiid, instead of cold, it is called gruel. 

5. A pretty Easter dish is made by filling an egg shell as follows: 

a. Remove a tiny bit of shell from one end of Qgg and pour out the contents. 
h. Rinse shell with water and pour in a stiff Irish-moss-mold mixture. 

c. Set shell upright (for example, in com meal) imtil filling is hard, then remove 
shell. 

d. Surround with lady fingers and serve with whipped cream. 

A gelatin or a cornstarch mixture may be substituted for the moss mixture in filling the 
shell. 

6. The exact time for cooking moss in any liquid cannot be given. (May this fact be 
due to a varying quantity of gelatinous substance in the moss?) A period of 15-30 min. 

7 



98 LESSONS IN COOKERY 

is usually long enough. If the moss is cooked too long in the liquid, the pudding is tough 
and strong in flavor. 

7. Irish moss, as a rule, can be secured inexpensively from any druggist. It is a very 
mucilaginous seaweed and is used for thickening Hquids. Compare it with the commercial 
product, "vegetable gelatin." 

8. Powdered sea-moss (sold in some markets) is simpler to use than moss not in the . 
powdered form. What are the comparative cost and the flavor? Powdered sea-moss is 
one of the most effective stiffening agents used in cooking. Note the typical recipe below. 



Ingredients: 

Ht. 

It. 

He 

6d. 



Sea-Mo88 Mold, Prepared from Powdered Moss 

(4 servings) 
yi tb. powdered sea-moss (Sea-Moss Farine) 
3 tb. sugar 
2 c. milk, scalded 
^t* vanilla 



Mdhod: 

1. Mix the moss and sugar. 

2. Stirring constantly, add them to hot milk and stir them in a double boiler 
until mixture is as thick as thin cream. 

3. Cover, and steam 30 min. longer, stirring being unnecessary. 

4. Pour mixture into four molds wet with cold water, and chill. 

6. Turn out, and serve with cream and sugar or soft custard. (Do not turn 
mixture from molds until just before serving, as the molded portions crack easily.) 



NUt: 



The mixture after 30 min. steaming is no thicker than thin cream, yet it molds perfectly. 



Ingredients: 

2t. 

2t. 

dash 

Itb. 

Ho. 

6d. 



CORNSTARCH DESSERTS 

Plain Cornstarch Mold (White) 

{6-8 servings) 

6 tb. cornstarch 

5 tb. sugar 

H t. salt 

J^ c. cold milk I £^ ^ condensed 

3yi c. scalded milk) 

1 1. vanilla 



Method: 

1. Mix the dry ingredients thoroughly. 

2. Add the cold milk and stir to make a smooth paste. 

3. Add paste to the scalded milk, stirring meanwhile. 

4. Stir mixture in a double boiler until it is as thick as heavy cream, then cover 
and cook 20 min. longer so as to remove the raw starchy taste and odor. Stir 
once or twice during the 20-min. period. 



DIET FOR CHILDREN 99 

6. Cool a little, and add vanilla. 

6. Pour mixture into molds wet with cold water, and chill 6-6 hr. or longer. 
If a refrigerator is not available, set the molds in cold water. 

7. Turn out and serve with one of the following: 

Cream and sugar 
Soft custard 

Hot fruit juice or sauce (such as grape) 
Hot chocolate sauce 
(Serve cornstarch hot, if preferred.) 

Noies: 

1. The recipe allows of considerable variation according to taste; for example: 

Use 4:-8 tb. cornstarch (6 tb. cornstarch yield a semi-stiff mold; 8 tb. a stiff mold. 

The pudding will jelly, but will not turn from mold as a rule, if less than 6 "^b. 

cornstarch are used.) 
Use 4r-6 tb. sugar (white or brown). 
Steam 20-45 min. (Time of cooking affects thickness of pudding. Explain.) 

2. Note simple derivatives: 

a. Chocolate mold, made by the addition of chocolate (see recipe, page 100) 

b. Caramel mold, made by substituting caramel for part or all of the sugar 

c. Molds made by the substitution of. any of the following for part or all of milk: 

Thin cream Jelly or jam, diluted with water 

Fruit juice Strong coffee (for adults only) 

Fruit-juice molds are an excellent way of supplying fruit juices to children. 
A cornstarch mold is attractive in layers, such as white, chocolate, and pink. 

3. If more nutritious desserts are desired, add 1-A yolks of eggs or 1-4 whites to any 
of the following: 

Plain mold, page 98 
Chocolate mold, page 100 
Caramel or fruit-juice mold 
A cornstarch meringue results if the yolks and whites are beaten separately. 
Any of the following ingredients may be stirred into a cornstarch pudding just before 
it is molded, or, if preferred, the cornstarch mixture and the additions may be placed in the 
mold in alternate layers (beware of rich combinations for children) : 
Marshmallows, cut in quarters 
Nuts, chopped 
Raw or cooked fruits: 

Fresh (such as berries) 
Dried (dates, figs, etc.) . 

4. Use the following method with the class recipes for this pudding and the chocolate 
mold which follows: 

a. Perform steps 1 and 2 of the method, page 98. 

b. Add any hot milk called for, and stir the mixture in a double boiler tmtil it 
is as thick as a drop batter. 

c. Remove spoon, cover boiler, cook mixture 6 min. (not 20 min.), flavor^ 
then place it in a mold. 



100 



LESSONS IN COOKERY 



Chocolate Cornstarch Mold 

{6-8 servings) 

6 tb. cornstarch 

J^ c. sugar 

J4 1. salt 

1^ sqtiares of bitter chocolate, grated 

lyi c. cold milk { 

2}4 c. cold milk ) 

IJi t. vanilla 



fresh or condensed 



Ingredients: 

2t. 

2t. 

dash 

It. 

Itb. 

8d. 
Method: 

1. Mix the chocolate with the other dry ingredients. 

2. Add 13^ c. cold milk, mix well, then stir mixture in a double boiler until 
it is as smooth and thick as a soft dough. 

3. Stirring constantly, slowly add the remaining portion of cold milk. 

4. Stir mixture 2-3 min. in a double boiler; then cover and cook it 20 min. 
longer, stirring occasionally. 

6. Cool, flavor, and pour mixture into molds wet with cold water 

Notes: 

1. This recipe allows of considerable variation according to taste; for example: 

Use 4-8 tb. cornstarch. (4 tb. yield a nicely jellied pudding, but not quite stiff 

enough to mold; 6 tb. yield a semi-stiff mold; 8 tb. a stiff mold.) 
Use Ji-H c. sugar. 
Use 1-2 squares of chocolate. 
Use 1-2 1. vanilla, almond, or other extract. 
Add a small quantity of beaten eg^. 
The chocolate mold, because of the use of bitter chocolate, requires for the average taste 
more sugar and extract than the plain mold, page 98. 

2. Cocoa (6 tb.) may be substituted for l}/^ squares of chocolate in the given recipe. 
(Use 1 1. cocoa in the dass recipe.) Mix the cocoa with the other dry ingredients and pro- 
ceed with the method for plain mold, page 98. 

3. Suggest other methods for blending both chocolate and plain cornstarch molds. 



Ingredients: 

2tb. 

Itb. 

dash 

It. 

It. 

Ht. 

It. 



RICE DESSERTS 
Rice PuddinfiT Containing Eggs 

2 c. milk, scalded 

2 c. boiled or steamed rice (such as left-over rice) 

H t. salt 

4-5 tb. sugar 

2 eggs, beaten light 

2-3 tb. butter, melted 

1 1. grated rind of lemon (or a substitute flavoring) 

J^-J^ c. fruit, used singly or in any combination, such i 

Apples Pineapple 

Currants 



DIET FOR CHILDREN 101 

Mdhod: 

1. Mix all the ingredients except the eggs. 

2. Slowly add this mixture to the eggs, place entire mixture in a baking dish, 
and sprinkle it with cinnamon or nutmeg. 

3. Place the baking dish in a pan of hot water, and bake in a moderate oven 
20-30 noin., or until pudding is firm. 

4. Serve with cream and sugar. 

NaUa: 

1. This pudding is simply a baked custard containing rice and fruit. 

2. The pudding is attractive spread with meringue after being baked ; brown the meringue. 

3. A qtdck pudding is made by stirring the entire mixture in a double boiler 15 min., 
or until it is creamy; then bake to brown the top. 

4. Pearl barley or hominy may be substituted for rice. The pudding is sometimes pre- 
pared with flaked rice. 

5. Dried or condensed milk or dried egg may be us . 

Rice Pudding without Eggs 

Ingredients: 

4 c. milk, whole or skim 

J^-J^ c. raw rice 

Ht.salt 

3-4 tb. sugar 

}^ c. raisins or currants 

Mdhod: 

1. Wash rice and fruit. 

2* Mix all the ingredients, and pour them into a buttered baking dish. 

3. Bake mixture 2-4 hr. in a very slow oven, stirring often during the first 
part of baking so as to prevent the rice from settling; in the end the top should be 
a pretty brown. 

4. Serve hot or cold with cream. 

NaUs: 

1. If desired, add one of the following flavorings: 

Grated rind of J^ lemon 

J^ t. ground mace or nutmeg 

J^ t. ground cinnamon 

2. Why is it not well to add egg to this pudding? 

3. K preferred, cook the pudding 1 J^2 hr. in a double boiler, then brown it in oven. 



SUGGESTIONS FOR CHILDREN'S PARTIES 

SANDWICHES 

Sandwiches should be simple, but attractive and served in abundance. Aim to satisfy 
the child^s hunger with sandwiches so that later he will not overeat of ice cream and cake. 
(Consult Note 1, page 122.) 

The following recipes for sandwiches offer, unusual opportunity for good handwork on 
the part of the pupil. 

Roll Sandwiches 
Method: 

1. Slice white or graham bread (24 hr. old) very thin, then trim off the crusts. 

2. Spread slices with butter and a little of any of the following fillings: 

Nut butter (such as peanut or almond) 

Fruit butter or paste (such as date or fig; see page 144) 

Marmalades (such as orange-rhubarb) 

Jams and jellies 

3. Roll each slice on the order of a jelly roll. 

4. Wran each sandwich in white tissue paper, twisting the ends of paper or 
tying them with narrow ribbon. 

Mile; ' 

Sandwiches not rolled are good prepared from thin slices of bread and any of the fillings 
listed. 

Kindergarten Sandwiches 

Method: 

1. Cut brown and white bread in thin slices. 

2. Cut the slices into any of the following forms by means of various cutters: 

Animals Roimds (plain or fluted) 

Flowers Rectangles 

Diamonds. Squares 

Hearts Etc. 

3. Match together a form of brown bread with one of white bread. 

4. Add creamed butter to one slice, then press the two slices into a sandwich. 

Notes: 

1. It is wasteful, but easier, to spread the slices of bread with butter before they are cut 
into the various forms. 

2. A simple filling, such as jelly or peanut butter, may be added to the sandwiches. 

102 



DXET FOR CHILDREN 103 

3. Stencil sandwiches result if, before kindergarten sandwiches are made up/ a small 
fancy cutter is used to remove Hie center from each top -slice; ^i" slices of bread are 
desirable. 

Ribbon Sandwiches 

Melhod: 

1. Butter two thin slices each of dark brown, white, and graham bread. 

2. Pile the six slices together in alternate colors of one slice each. 

3. Wrap them in a damp cloth and place them under a weight for 1-2 hr. 

4. Slice in narrow strips, and serve strips overlapping one another on a plate. 

Noits: 

1. A filling of any kind may be placed between the layers, if desired. 

2. A harlequin sandwich consists of one or two slices each of dark brown (or graham) 
and white bread, with or without the addition of a filling. 

3. For a variation for use in adults' diet, see Appendix G, page 216, Note 8. 

Mosaic Sandwiches 

Melhod: 

1. Cut an equal number of 3^*^ slices of white and graham bread, and butter 
one side of each slice. 

2. Place the bread in piles of six slices each, alternating the graham and white 
slices and having the buttered sides up except in the case of the top slice of each 
pile. 

3. Place a light weight on top of each pile, and let stand in a cool place until 
the butter has hardened. 

4. Trim each pile even, then cut it in three J/^* slices. Spread these slices with 
butter and put them together in such a way that a white block alternates with a 
graham one. 

6. Add a light weight, again let piles stand in a cool place tmtil the butter is 
hard, then cut in thin slices, and arrange on a plate covered with a doily. 

Log-Cabin Cheese Sandwiches 

Method: 

1. Whip together until very light cream cheese and enough whipped cream 
or French dressing to moisten it. 

2. Spread Ji* slices of graham bread with the mixture, and sprinkle them with 
chopped pecan meats. 

3. Press the slices together in pairs, remove crusts, and cut in finger-shaped 
pieces. 

4* Toast, and pile log-cabin style on a plate. 

Salt, paprika, and lettuce are often desirable additions to these sandwiches. 



FRUIT SALADS 

Peas in a Pod 

Method: 

1. Split a banana lengthwise in two almost equal sections. 

2. Remove the edible part of the banana from both sections. 

3. Fill one skin with rows of small balls cut by means of a French vege- 
table-cutter from any of the following raw fruits (used singly or in any combina- 
tion) : 

Apples Peaches Plums 

Bananas Pears Watermelon 

Muskmelon Pineapple Etc. 

Cherries or white grapes may also be used. 

4. Sprinkle the balls with lemon juice and powdered sugar. (French dressing 
made with lemon juice is also a possibility.) 

6. Place the other skin on top as a lid. 

AVes: 

1. If preferred, leave a strip of the banana pulp in the under skin, and place the balls 
on top of it. 

2. In lil^e manner a cucumber shell may be stuffed with little balls of beets, potatoes, 
etc., and French or other dressing be added. Curled celery and strips or bits of pimento 
make excellent garnishes (for use in adults' diet chiefly). 

Fruit Salad in a Jelly Mold 

Method: 

1. Chill in a deep bowl a simple lemon jelly made from the following: 

2 tb. granulated gelatin 
H c. cold water 
2 c. boiling water 
H c. lemon juice 
H c. sugar 

2. When mixture is firm, form a cup by scooping out the center of the jelly, 
leaving the walls of the cup one inch thick. 

3. Fill cup with a mixture of the following (all fruits to be sliced) : 

Apples, tart Bananas 

Oranges Mayonnaise, slightly sweetened 

4. Cover fruit with liquid jelly (secured by melting the gelatin scooped from 
the center), and chill. 

6. When this cover layer of gelatin is firm, turn mold into a shallow bowl 
containing head lettuce, and garnish with mayonnaise. 

104 



DIET FOR CHILDREN 106 

Grape Salad 

Method: 

1. Wash Tokay or Malaga grapes. 

2. Remove the seeds, after splitting each grape just enough so that the seeds 
can be removed. 

3. Stuff the grapes with nuts, chopped or whole, to which mayonnaise has 
been added; pecans or ahnonds are especially good. 

4. Serve on lettuce, and garnish with mayoimaisey French, or cooked dressing. 

Noles: 

1. It is sometimes desirable to skin the grapes. 

2. Large cherries may be substituted for grapes. StonCy and insert in each dberry a 
round nut, such as a blanched filbert or hazel nut. 



DESSERTS 

CHARLOTTES 
Ganeral Notes on Charlottes 

/. Definition: 

A charlotte is a dessert consisting of a mold with a cream filling. Charlottes are of two 
.types, according to the kind of mold used: 

1. Charlotte russe: This is a charlotte in which cake, selected from the following 
list, is used as the mold (sliced cake and lady fingers are generally used) : 

Cake, in slices (sponge or angel) Macaroons 

Cake, whole Meringues 

Lady fingers Wafers 

2. Fruit charlotte: This is a charlotte in which fruit, selected from the following 
list, is used as the mold: 

Dried (such as chopped dates or figs) 
Fresh, raw (sugar usually added) : 

Apricots, cut in small cubes Peaches, cut in small cubes 

Bananas, sliced Raspberries 

Orange sections, or carpels Strawberries 

Glac^ed or candied 
Preserved 
The term fruit charlotte is also sometimes applied to a charlotte russe the 
cream filling of which contains stewed fruit or any of the foregoing fruits 
(see apple charlotte russe, page 108). 

//. Cases in which to prepare the molds: 

1. Small, or individual, cases: 

Paper cases, plain or fancy (much used by bakers) 
Glass molds (such as sherbet glasses) 

2. Large cases: 

Paper cases 
Glass molds 

///. Cake or fruit molds: 

Use any one of the following methods in preparing cake or fruit molds: 

1. Line a case (paper or glass) with cake or fruit, or a combination of the two. 

2. Mold a filling in a case (paper or glass), turn filling out, and then cover the 
bottom and sides with cake or fruit, or a combination of the two. 

3. Scoop out the center of a large or small cake (sponge or other) and use the 
cake as a mold. (No paper or glass case is used.) 

A quick dessert of the same food value as a charlotte is made by pouring a charlotte 
filling over slices of cake. It cannot be called a charlotte, however, since no mold is used. 

106 



DIET FOR CHILDREN 107 

IV. FiUings: 

Whipped cream is the basis for all fillings. The only difficulty in the making of a filling 
consists in the addition of the whipped cream at just the right instant. If the gelatin 
mixture is too liquid, the whipped cream loses its lightness and the filling separates into 
layers; if the gelatin mixture is too hard, a Itunpy filling results. 

Any charlotte filling may be molded in white, pink, chocolate, or other layers by 
dividing it into two or more parts and coloring it while it is in the liquid state. 

Types of fillings are as follows: 

1. Fillings not stiff enough to turn from mold; note three varieties: 

Whipped cream, fliavored and sweetened with powdered sugar 
Whipped cream (flavored and sweetened) containing a little gelatin 
Whipped cream containing a small quantity of chilled honey 

2. Fillings so stiff with gelatin that they will mold; note varieties (a and h are 
generally used) : 

a. Simple whipped cream mixed with gelatin 

h. Rich milk or plain cream mixed with gelatin and enriched by the folding 

in of whipped cream just as the mixture begins, to set 
c. Any liquid (milk, cream, water, or fruit juice) mixed with gelatin and 
enriched by the whipping in of the beaten whites of eggs (see Diet for 
Adults, pages 198-200, for notes on "sponges") 
Some of these gelatin fillings are simply Bavarian creams. See Diet for 
Adults, page 201, Note 5. 
Fillings may be flavored with any of the following: 

Caramel Coffee (for adults only) 

Chocolate, melted or powdered Flavoring extract (such as vanilla) 

(also see page 108, Note 2) Fruit juice or pulp 

Cocoa, dry (apple, orange, strawberry, etc.) 

Possible additions to filHngs include: 

Whites of eggs beaten stiff (sometimes substituted for part or all of the whipped 

cream of a and b) 
Yolks of eggs (these add greatly to nutritive value) 

Solid foods; any of the following may be folded into a filling before it is placed in 
a mold, or may be used as part of the mold itself: 
Cake crumbs, toasted (such as sponge cake) 
Fruits (see I, page 106) 
Macaroons, crushed 
Nuts (such as browned almonds) 
Rice, cooked (see rice Bavarian cream, page 113) 

V. Garnishes: 

Garnishes, including the following, are especially desirable in charlottes that are turned 
from the molds: 

Angelica Fruit, fresh (berries, etc.) 

Chocolate, melted and cooled Fruit, glac6 

Cream, whipped (put through a pastry tube) Jam or jelly 

Fruit, candied (cherries, etc.) Lady fingers (iced, if desired) 



108 



LESSONS IN COOKERY 



Ingredients: 

It. 

J^tb. 
4d. 

1-2% tb. 
1 lady finger 



Charlotte Russe 

{Standard recipe) 
(4 sherbet glasses) 

1 tb. granulated gelatin 

2 tb. cold water 

^ c. thin cream, scalded in a double bdler 

3 tb. powdered sugar 

1 1. vanilla (or other extract, such as almond) 

1 c. rich cream, measured after being whipped stiff 

8 lady fingers or slices of sponge or angel cake 



Method: 

1. Soak the gelatin 3-5 min. in cold water. 

2. Add it to the hot cream, stir mixture in a double boiler until the gelatin is 
dissolved, then strain mixture into a bowl. 

3. Add sugar and vanilla, set bowl in ice water, and stir mixture almost con- 
stantly until it begins to thicken. 

4. Fold in the whipped cream, and while the mixture is still in a condition to 
pour, turn it into molds lined with lady fingers or with cake. 

6. Chill dessert, and turn from mold. 

Noiea: 

1. Make the dessert in one large mold, if preferred. 

2. Chocolate charlotte, made as follows, contains the ingredients used in the foregoing 
recipe together with 2-3 tb. grated bitter chocolate: 

fl. Soak the gelatin 3-5 min. in cold water. 

b. Cook the chocolate to a smooth paste with half of the hot cream. 

c. Add this paste to the remainder of hot cream and cook mixture 10 min. in a 
double boiler. 

d. Add soaked gelatin to the hot liquid, stir mixture in a double boiler until 
gelatin is dissolved, then strain into a bowl. 

e. Perform steps 3, 4, and 6 of the foregoing method. 

Apple Charlotte Russe 

(Not very rich) 
Ingredients: (4 servings) 

J^ t. lyi tb. granulated gelatin 

yi tb. Ji c. cold water 

2 tb. 1 c. smooth, strained apple sauce (well sweetened), boiling hot 

2 tb. 1 c. rich cream, measured after being whipped stiff 

1 lady finger 6 lady fingers 

Method: 

1. Soak gelatin J^ hr. in cold water, then dissolve it in the hot apple sauce. 

2. Fold in the cream as soon as the mixture begins to thicken. 

3. Line a mdd with lady fingers, pour in the mixture, and chill. 



DIET FOR CHILDREN 109 

SHERBETS 
Introductory Notes 

1. Sherbets are an excellent means of furnishing the following to children (and adults): 

Milk (see milk sherbet) 

Egg whites 

Fruits 

2. A sherbet can be derived from any water ice by either of the following methods: 

a. Substitution of milk for water 

b. Addition of one of the following: 

Whites of eggs (beaten stiff) 

Gelatin (soaked, and then dissolved in bdling-hot sirup) 
Boiled frosting 
Whipped cream 
Two or more ingredients, such as gelatin and egg white, are sometimes added. 
(Pupil to make a collection of recipes containing two or more of these added 
ingredients.) 
The use of either method results in a smooth, or soft, product, and usually in a white 
product. 

3. The recipes given are illustrative of the above methods for making sherbets. 
Flavor is a matter of choice, hence, by the use of the following fruits singly or in any 

combination, ntunerous sherbets may be derived from each of the recipes printed: 

Apricots Mint (steeped in water) 

Bananas Oranges 

Cherries Peaches 

Cranberries (juice of Pineapple 

cooked berries) Raspberries 

Grapes (juice) Strawberries 

Lemons Tangerines 

Use fruit (canned or fresh) in any of the following forms: 
Juice alone 

Pulp (grate or mash the fruit) 
Small pieces of fruit (add these when the sherbet mixture is nearly frozen) 

Jelly or jam is sometimes substituted for the foregoing juice, etc. , 

The texture of both ices and sherbets is smoother if, before the fruit is added, a sirup 
is made by cooking together the sugar and part or all of the liquid. 

4. Any sherbet recipe allows of great variation, according to choice, in the kinds and 
proportions of all ingredients. The recipes given are simply representative ones. 

5. Serve sherbets in sherbet cups (glass) or in tall slender glasses. 

6. Note dass suggestions: 

a. Pupil to be assigned one of the five sherbet recipes (pages 110-112). 

6. Pupil to bring fruit juice or other flavoring from home, so that a variety of 

sherbets may be displayed at the end of the lesson. 

(Each of the class recipes printed fills or almost fills one sherbet glass.) 



110 



LESSONS IN COOKERY 



4 c. water 
1J^2 c. sugar 
Ji-1 c. lemon juice 



Water Ice (Lemon) 

(Recipe from which the sherbet recipes are derived) 
Ingredients: 
Ho. 

2tb. 
2t. 

Method: 

1. Boil sugar and water together to make a thin sirup. (Boil class recipe 
3 min.) 

2. Add lemon juice, strain, and freeze. 

NUe: 

Various ices may be derived from this recipe by the substitution of other flavorings for 
lemon juice. 

Milk Sherbet (Lemon) 

{Made by the substitution of milk for the water of water ice) 



Ingredients: 




He. 


4 c. milk 


2tb, 


1J^2 c. sugar 


2t. 


5^-1 c. lemon juice 



Method: 

1. Dissolve the sugar in« the lemon juice. 

2. Stirring constantly, very slowly add the milk, then freeze. 

Note: 

The mixture will probably curdle as the milk is added. This curdiness, however, will 
disappear during the freezing process. 

White-of-Egg Sherbet (Pineapple) 

{Water ice-Yegg whites) 
Ingredients: 
Ho. 

l^tb. 

It. 

2t. 

1 tb. beaten 
stiff 

Method: 

1. Make a sirup by boiling sugar and half the water together for 10 min. 

2. Add lemon juice, then strain. 

3. Add pineapple and remainder of water. 

4. Freeze to a mush, add beaten whites, and continue freezing until mixture 
is stiff. 



4 c. water 

}4 0. sugar 

Juice of 4 lemons 

1 fresh raw pineapple, shredded 

3 whites of eggs, beaten stiff 



DIET FOR CHILDREN 



111 



6. Remove the dasher, pack, and let the mixttire stand 2-3 hr. to ripen, or 
develop flavor. 
Nate: 

In some sherbets meringues are added in place of plain whites of eggs. 





Gelatin Sherbet (Orange) 




{Water ice+gelatin) 


Ingredients: 




2tb. 


4 c. water 


Itb. 


2 c. sugar 


Jit. 


Ji c. lemon juice 


dash 


Grated rind of 2 oranges 


Ht. 


1 tb. granidated gelatin 


Itb. 


2 c. orange juice 



Method: 

1. Soak gelatin 3-5 min. in 34 c. cold water. (Use J^ t. water in class recipe.) 

2. Prepare a sirup from the sugar and the remaining water (3^ c). 

3. Add the soaked gelatin to the sirup. 

4. Add the other ingredients except the rind, and strain. ^ 
6. Add rind, and freeze. 



Boiled-Frosting Sherbet (Grape) 

{Water ice+boiled frosting) 



Ingredients: 




2tb. 


4 c. water 


Itb. 


2 c. sugar 


y2t. 


Juice of 2 lemons 


Itb. 


2 c. grape juice 




Boiled frosting (see notes) ; 


^t. 


yi c. sugar sirup at threading stage 


2 1. beaten 


1 white of egg, beaten stiff 


stiff 





Method: 

1. Prepare a sirup from the first two ingredients. 

2. Add lemon and grape juice, strain, and freeze. 

3. When mixture is frozen, beat in the boiled frosting. 

Notes: 

1. To make the boiled frosting, add the boiling-hot sirup very slowly to the beaten 
white of egg, then beat mixture until it is thick. 

2. One pupil to prepare enough sirup (from J^-J^ c. sugar) for use by the entire class 
in making frosting. 



112 



LESSONS IN COOKERY 



Ingredients: 

2tb. 
Jitb. 
2 tb. pulp 
1 tb. whipped 
cream 



Whipped-Cream Sherbet (Frozen Apricots) 

(Water ice -^whipped cream) 

4 c. liquid (a mixture of apricot juice and water) 

1^ c. sugar 

1 qt. camied apricots, pressed through a sieve 

Whipped cream (obtained by beating 1 pt. triple cream) 



Method: 

1. Mix the first three ingredients and partially freeze them. 

2. Fold in the cream and complete the freezing. 



Notes, 
t 



Possible substitutes for canned apricots include: 

Apricots, stewed and sweetened (fresh or dried fruit) 

Fruits in general, such as peaches and cranberries (fresh, dried, or canned fruit) 
2. Which are the cheapest, fresh, dried, or canned apricots? 



Ingredients: 

M" sHce, 
2' square 

J^ white 



MISCELLANEOUS DESSERTS 
Baked Alaska 

1 qt. brick ice cream 

Sponge or angel cake (baked in a shallow pan) 



Meringue: 



3 large whites of eggs, beaten tmtil stiff and Itmipy (or 4 small 

whites) 
3 tb. powdered sugar 
J^ t. vanilla (not essential) 



Htb. 

4d. 

Method: 

1. Prepare the meringue by beating the three ingredients with a Dover beater 
until the mixture stands up with stiff finger-like projections. {Caution: Use 
whites of eggs immediately after they are beaten stiflE.) 

2. Cover one side of a board (5^"' thick) with heavy paper. 

3. Set the cake on the board, place ice cream on top of cake, and cover the top 
and sides of cream with meringue. 

4. Brown the top surface by holding the recipe next the flame of the broiling 
oven. (Do not place it in the baking oven, since the cream is almost sure to melt.) 

6. Slip the dessert upon a platter, and slice. (Serve it with hot chocolate 
sauce, if desired.) 



Notes: 

1. A brick of water ice may be substituted for the ice cream. 
Why?) 



(It is more cooling. 



DIET FOR CHILDREN 



113 



2. Secure a board ^WX^WXK" for each pupil. 

3. Correlation with physics: Pupil to study nonconductors of heat in relation to each 
of the following: 

Baked Alaska (baked ice cream) 

Alaska fritters (fried ice cream; see Appendix G, page 216, Note 6) 

Rice Bavarian cream (baked gelatin; see recipe below) 

Fireless cooker 

Refrigerator 

Tea cozy 

Thermos bottle 
Pupil to relate the following to the foregoing list: 

Nonconductivity of: 

Asbestos Meringue 

Cork, ground Paper 

Flour mixtures (such as cake and fritter batters) Vacuum 
Hay Wood 

Conductivity of metals (note that ice cream melts quickly if it is baked on tin) 



Ingredients: 

Itb. 

IJ^tb. 

dash 

2d. 

%t. 
Iti- 
It. 
Itb. 



4tb. 
2d. 



Rice Bavarian Cream 

{6 servings) 

yi c. boiled or steamed rice (see Note 1) 

IH tb. sugar 

Ji c. milk 

He t. salt (omit if rice has been salted) 

Yi t. extract (such as almond or lemon) 

Gelatin solution prepared from the following (see Note 2): 

1 tb. granulated gelatin 

2 tb. cold water 

2 tb. boiling water 
3^ c. rich cream measured ajier being whipped stiflf (the cream before 

being whipped measures about J^ c.) 
Meringue: 

1 large white of egg, beaten stiff 

1 tb. powdered sugar 

Ji t. flavoring extract 



Meihod: 

1. Mix well all the ingredients except the whipped cream and meringue. 

2. Chill mixture 15-20 min., or until it is semi-jellied, then fold in whipped cream. 

3. Cover bottom and sides of a 63^*^ circular cake tin with slices of sponge or 
angel cake, fill cavity with rice mixture, and chill. (Use a square or oblong tin, if 
preferred.) 

4. When recipe is firm, turn it out on an inverted cake tin, and cover the top 
and sides with meringue. (If an extra pretty dish is desired, sprinkle mold with 
ground nuts or macaroons or grated coconut.) 

8 



114 LESSONS IN COOKERY 

6. Brown the top siirfax}e in the broiling oven next the flame. (The pudding 
is likely to melt if the baking oven is used.) 

6. Chill, then slip the pudding upon a platter and slice it like cake. Serve 
with or without a jelly sauce. 

Noies: 

1. Left-over rice is often used in this redpe. Left-over cream of wheat or other cereal 
may be substituted for rice. 

2. To prepare the gelatin solution, soak the gelatin 5 min. in the cold water, then add 
the boiling water and stir mixture in a double boiler until the gelatin is all dissolved. 

3. Class recipe: Level measurements are essential. A muffin tin, lined with meditun- 
thin slices of cake, is a good mold. 

4. All white is the prettiest color scheme, but white and pink (or chocolate) layers, or 
white with chopped nuts and dried cherries, may be used. 

5. This dessert is as light and fluffy as angel cake, and cuts like it. 

6. A simpler pudding is made by omitting the cake and meringue; individual molds 
are desirable. 

Ice-Cream Delicacy 

Method: 

1. Scoop or cut out the center of a sunshine cake, angel cake, or ordinary 
sponge cake, and fill the cavity with strawberry or other ice cream. 

2. Cover the entire top of dessert with whipped cream. 

3. Add a layer of toasted marshmallows. 

4. Slice the dessert at the dining table. 

Mock Egg-in-the-Nest 

Method: 

1. Place three large-sized Nabisco wafers side by side on a plate (these serve 
as toast; see recipe for egg-in-the-nest, page 76). 

2. Place ice cream or sweetened whipped cream on top of the wafers (this 
serves as beaten white of egg). 

3. Place half of a peach in the center of cream (the peach serves as egg yolk). 

Orange Baskets 

Method: 

1. Wash orange, then remove two sections of rind from the upper half of 
orange, leaving a band of peel to serve as a handle. 

2. Scoop out the pulp and scrape the shell clean. 

3. Fill shell with cubes of orange or lemon jelly (see recipe for orange jelly, 
page 153). 

Nates: 

1. If the shells are wrapped in a damp cloth they will retain their shape for some time. 

2. This recipe is a good handwork lesson. 



PART VIII 

DIET FOR THE BOY AND GIRL TWELVE TO EIGHTEEN 
YEARS OP AGE (HIGH-SCHOOL AGE) 



SUGGESTIONS FOR LESSONS 

LxTNCH Boxes: 

27. Preparation of foods for a lunch box: Cheese sandwich filling. Oatmeal or com-meal 
crackers 

28. Preparation of foods for a lunch box: Marguerites. Bran cookies 

29. Paddng of lunch boxes 

Simple Fruit Desserts: 

30. Fresh or dried fruit, stewed. Steamed dates or figs. Cereal flakes with fruit juice or 

sauce 

31. Fruit toast 

32. Baked banana. Foamy orange sauce 

33. Fruit rice-balls 

34. Fruit escalloped with a starchy material 

35. Orange jelly made with (a) gelatin, (6) agar-agar, or " vegetable gelatin" 

36. Prune gelatin jelly 

Simple Homemade Candies: 

37. Barley-sugar candies, such as glac6 fruits and nuts 

38. Candy brittle 

39. Marshmallows 

40. Fruit-nut paste. Stuffed dates 



SUGGESTIONS FOR A DATS MEALS 

{Diet for the boy and girl twelve to eighteen years of age) 
Breakfast: 

Fruit 
Cereal 

Milk or cocoa 
Bread and butter 
Luncheon: 

A simple complete dish (see list, page 178), such as: 

Salmon and rice loaf 

Hominy baked with cheese 

Hot-meat sandwich 
Milk or cocoa 
Bread and butter 
Dessert, simple 
Dinner: 

Protein food (any simple recipe), such as: 

Broiled meat or fish 

Escalloped eggs 

Baked beans or dried-legume loaf 
Potatoes or a substitute 
Juicy vegetable, cooked 

Fresh vegetable or fruit salad (with a simple oil or cream dressing) 
Bread and butter 
Dessert, simple 
Milk or cereal coffee (half hot milk) 

Notes: 

1. Pupil to note the evolution of these menus from those listed on page 69. 

2. Kind of food: All cereals, desserts, and other foods given the younger children are 
also allowed boys and girls 12 to 18 years old (that is, of the adolescent, or high-school, age). 
Since, in addition, other foods are allowed, the range of foods for this period is very much 
the same as for the adult; however, emphasis should be laid on the following points: 

a. Give foods which are simple and easy of digestion. 

b. Give more of the constructive, or building, foods (see list, page 7) than are 
necessary with adults; include the following: 

Extra protein (milk, meat, cheese, cereals, etc.) 
Extra mineral matter, such as: 

. Iron (especially necessary for girls of high-school age) 

Calcium 

Phosphorus 

c. Give plenty of fruits and vegetables (salads, etc.). 

117 



118 LESSONS IN COOKERY 

3. Quantity of food: Several recent authorities are in favor of putting no quantitative 
restrictions (so long as digestion and assimilation remain normal) on the diet of boys and 
girls 12 to 18 years old, since the very great increase in appetite during these years seems 
to arise from some physiological need at present not perfectly understood. 

". . . . the total requirement for girls from 14 to 17 will be from 2,200 to 2,600 calories; 
for boys of the same age from 2,500 to 3,000 calories. Very often by this time the full 
height will have been attained and the parents are surprised at the large oonstimption of 
food, thinking that growth has ceased. But growth is not merely a question of height. 
As already said, it involves laying on of muscle and fat, development of internal organs and 
a vigorous nervous system, and these demand food. Furthermore, muscular activity, 
especially out of doors, is a great aid in muscle and nerve development, and the extra fuel 
required to support this activity should never be begrudged young people. For five or 
ten years after full height is reached their food consimiption will be considerably higher 
than that of adults of the same size. As long as they confine themselves to simple, nour- 
ishing foods they are not likely to overeat."^ 

" Boys over 12 need as much food as their fathers do, and perhaps girls over 12 need as 
much as their mothers — although this is not certainly known."* 

For a study of the caloric value and cost of foods for the adolescent age,, see Mary 
Swartz Rose, Feeding the Family, pages 171-173. 

4. Strong precautions, such as the following, should be taken to avoid tmdemutrition 
during the high-school age (note that "nerves" are often a sign of malnutrition): 

a. Provide three regular meals, and have them eaten leisurely. Both the home 
and the school should lay particular emphasis upon the necessity of a long 
period for the noon meal. 

It is often desirable to serve dinner at noon and supper at night. 

b. In many cases, provide a simple between-meal limch, such as egg lemonade 
or bread or crackers, for rapidly growing children of keen appetite. (Although 
three regular meals a day should be sufficient for children of high-school age, 
yet they often are not.) 

c. Do not allow bojrs and girls to go to school without breakfast. (Girls, 
especially, often wish to omit breakfast.) 

d. Forbid all of the following: 

Stimulants (tea, coffee, etc.) 

Fried foods 

Rich cakes 

Rich meat and fish salads, with mayonnaise 

Strong condiments. 

Discourage the use of very highly flavored foods. Girls, especially, are 
often tempted to avoid plain foods and to eat only sweets, dill pickles, etc. 
Such sweets, etc., blunt the appetite for substantial foods. 

Use pastry very sparingly. If it is used, custard and cream pies are 
best; these pies are made with but one crust, and are an excellent means 
of supplying eggs, milk, and fruits (prunes, etc.). (See recipes. Diet for 
Invalids,) 

* Mary Swartz Rose, Feeding the Family, pages 169-170. 

^Graham Lusk, "Food for a Day," The Day's Food in War and Peace, U.S. Department of 
Agriculture. 



DIET FOR CHILDREN 119 

Use hot breads very sparingly, if at all; note the following points regarding 
them: 

(1) They should not be allowed as the main dishes in meals. 

(2) Almost never should they be allowed at the evening meal. 

(3) If used, they should be as crusty as possible (crust can often be secured 
by reheating rolls, etc., on the second day). 

(4) Waffles, griddlecakes, and baking-powder biscuits should be forbidden 
children under 14 years of age (they should be used sparingly later). 

(5) Use of sirup on hot bread (biscuits, griddlecakes, etc.) should not be 
encouraged. If allowed, the combination should be given in a small 
quantity only and as a dessert at a plain meal. 

(The following breads, when cold^ are often allowable: muffins, yeast rolls, 
baking-powder biscuits, and Boston brown bread. They are often toasted.) 



LUNCH BOXES 

DIETETIC SCHEME FOR A SCHOOL-CHILD'S LUNCH BOX 

As a rule, the contents of a lunch box should include the following: 
One protein food 
One starchy food (such as bread) 
One fruit 

One sweet (as dessert) 
One beverage (such as milk or grape juice) 
The lunch box should contain building foods, energy foods, and the other "essentials 
in diet." In general, the following dietetic scheme applies to adults' diet as well as to diet 
for younger and older children. Pupil to use this scheme in planning several lunch boxes. 

J. Building foods: 

Foods rich in protein: 

Protein-food sandwiches (see Note 1) : 

Cheese (such as cottage or cream) 

Egg, hard-cooked (chopped or sliced) 

Fish (such as whitefish) 

Legumes, dried (baked beans, etc.) 

Meat, ground (chicken, beef, or mutton) 

Nut butters (peanut, almond, etc.) or chopped nuts 

Miscellaneous protein foods: 

Beans, baked 

Beverages (milk, buttermilk, and cocoa; see Note 2) 

Cheese, cottage or cream 

Custard, baked 

Eggs cooked in shell (plain or stuffed) 

Meats (not always permissible, even if easily digested), such as: 

Loaf, such as beef 

Roast, sliced 

Stew (chicken, etc.) 

Salad (chicken, etc.) 
Nuts, fresh or salted (such as almonds and peanuts) 
Soups (cream soups, dried-legume soups, and certain meat soups) 

Foods rich in mineral salts: 

Breads, whole-grain (such as graham) 
Fruit juices 

Fruits, fresh juicy (apples, oranges, pears, plirnis, eta^ 
Milk 

Vegetables, fresh (celery, lettuce, radishes, tomatoes, etc.; see 
page 14, Note 2) 

120 



DIET FOR CHILDREN 121 

II. Energy-yielding foods: 

Cakes, plain, with simple frosting (sponge cake, gingerbread, jelly roll, 

etc.) 
Candy, homemade (molasses, etc.) 
Chocolate, sweet 

Cookies, plain (drop ginger cakes, peanut cookies, etc.) 
Crackers (graham, etc.) 
Fruits (fresh or dried), raw, such as: 

Bananas 

Dates 

Figs 

Raisins 
Fruits (fresh or dried), stewed, such as: 

Apples (also good baked) 

Apricots 

Peaches 

Prunes 

Raisins 

Jelly or jam 

Puddings, simple (rice, etc.) 
Rolls, buttered 

Salads (fruit, potato, tomato, etc.). 
Sandwiches (see Note 1) : 
Bread and butter, plain 
Sweet, such as: 

Apple or other fruit butter 

Date or fig (grind the fruit) 

Jam or jelly 

Til, Bulky foods (see Note 3): 
Beverages 
Breadstuffs, coarse (such as breads, cookies, crackers, and muflSns made 

of bran, graham flour, etc.) 
Fruits, dried, raw or cooked (dates, figs, prunes, etc.) 
Fruits, fresh, raw or cooked (apples, cherries, pears, etc.) 
Pop-corn balls 

Vegetables, fresh (such as celery or cabbage; see page 14, Note 2) 
IV. Appetizers (see Note 4) : 
Beverages: 

Fruit juices (such as grape) 
Fruitades (such as lemon or orange; see Note 2) 
Fruit jellies 

Fruits, juicy, raw or stewed (apples, oranges, peaches, etc.) 
Vegetables, juicy (celery, lettuce, radishes, tomatoes, etc.; see page 14, 
Note 2) 



122 



LESSONS IN, COOKERY 



NcUs: 

1. Sandwiches: Protein-food sandwiches should constitute the chief part of children's 
iundi boxes. Since children are likely to be careless about mastication, it is well to use 
chopped meat in sandwiches rather than sliced meat. 

See the general method for sandwiches, Diet for Adults^ pages 116-118; this method 
includes a list of desirable breads for use in protein-food and other sandwiches. 

See the classification of sandwich fillings, Diet for Adults, pages 114-116. Let the 
pupil check the names of those few fillings which are advisable for sandwiches for use at 
children's parties or in children's lunch' boxes. 

2. In many cases milk and buttermilk can best be carried (so as to be kept clean and 
cold) in the same bottles in which they were sent from the dairy. Beverages (milk, fruitades, 
etc.) and soups may be kept either cold or hot in thermos bottles, or they may be chilled or 
heated at school if facilities are offered. 

3. The limch should contain a due projwrtion of bulk, that is, foods rich in cellulose or 
water or both. Fresh vegetables are often especially relished if made into a salad. 

4. Appetizers are essential. Often a little treat or surprise (such as a piece of candy pr 
a few raisins or shelled nuts) acts as an appetizer and pleases the child. 

6. Avoid pastry, fried foods, etc., in the child's limch box. 

6. See Appendix G, page 216, Note 7, for suggestions for adults' limch boxes. 

NUTRITIVE VALUE AND COST OF MENUS FOR CHILDREN'S LUNCH BOXES 

Exercises for pupil: 

a. Discuss the balance of protein and other nutrients in each of the 
given menus, giving due consideration to the dietetic scheme, pages 
120-122. Vary the menus if it is deemed necessary. 

6. Determine the cost of each menu (one serving), then specify by checks 
which are the less expensive menus. 



Date: 








Menus 


Cost 


Menus 


Cost 


I 

Sandwiches: 
Peanut butter 




II 
Sandwiches: 
Cream cheese . , 




JeUy 




Tarn or iell v .... 




Olives 




Salad, craoe or chetrv 




Orange^ raw. 




Lemonade or sraoe iuice 








Total 




Total 






Ill 
Sandwiches, bacon 




IV 

Sandwiches, toast 




Almonds, salted 




Orange, raw 




Apple, baked 




Ciif^tard, baked. ... . . 




Cookies, molasses 




Cookies . . . 








Total 




Total 










^ "***** • 





DIET FOR CHILDREN 



123 



Menus 



Sandwiches: 

Graham bread and butter 

Chicken, pressed 

Milk, hot or cold 

Apple, raw or baked 

Candy, fruit (such as stuffed 

dates or prunes) 



Total 

VII 
Sandwiches, meat-paste . 
Salad, potato and celery. 

Milk 

Apple, raw or cooked 

Angel cake 



Total 

IX 

Sandwiches, beef-loaf 

Marmalade, orange 

Milk 

Apple, raw 

Dates (6) stuffed with almonds . 



Total. 



XI 
Sandwiches, fig and nut . . . 
Egg, hard-cooked in shell. 

Olives, ripe 

Banana, very ripe 

Marshmallows (4) ....... . 



Total 

XHI 
Sandwiches: 

Olive, lettuce 

Almond butter 

Soup, cream-of -tomato . 

Celery 

Snaps, ginger or honey. 



Cost 



Menus 



VI 

Sandwiches, egg and lettuce 

Nuts, salted. 

Cocoa 

Crackers, graham, with boiled 

frosting 

Pop-corn balls. 



Total 

VIII 
Sandwiches, bread and butter. 

Egg, stuffed 

Cherries, stewed 

Cookies, sugar 

Dates (3 or 4) 



Total. 



Sandwiches, graham bread and 

butter 

Egg, stuffed 

Cake, sponge 

Apple, baked 



Total 

XII 
Sandwiches, egg-salad 

Celery 

Gingercake 

Orange 

Figs (2 or 3) 



Total 

XIV 
Sandwiches: 

Cottage cheese, nut 

Bacon, lettuce 

Celery 

Cookies, peanut or fruit 

Fruit juice (such as orange), glass 



Cost 



Note- 
Divide menus into three groups: best for winter diet; best for spring or fall diet; 
best for summer diet. Many, if not all, of the menus are suitable for sedentary adults. 



124 



LESSONS IN COOKERY 



GENERAL EQUIPMENT FOR A LUNCH BOX 

The greater part of this outline applies equally well to children's lunch boxes and to 
lunch boxes for adults. 

/. Outside wrappings (see Note 1): 
Pupil to complete the data for the following table: 



OuTSiDB Wrappings 


Advantages 


Disadvantages 


Tin box (the best of all wrap- 
pings) 

Cardboard box 


Keeps food moist. Is easily 
kept clean. 


Is heavy in some cases. 


Lunch basket, well lined with 
oaoer 


- 




Pail 






Folding box of metal, leather, 
or other material 






Paper wrapping only 













//. Inside wrappings and other paper conveniences (see Notes 1 and 2): 
Paper napkins, tablecloth, and doilies 
Cardboard plates 
Paper or cardboard cartons 
ParaiiEn paper 
Paper drinking cups 

///. Miscellaneous conveniences for the lunch box (see Note 3) : 
Thermos bottle 

Thermos jar (a wide-mouthed thermos bottle) 
Sealed jars of glass or other ware 
Corkscrew 

Small salt and pepper cases 
Collapsible drinking cup 
Knife, fork, and spoon set, which folds into a small space 

Miles: 

1. The appearance of the lunch box is most important ; that is, the box must be neat and 
appetizing. The appearance of the box depends very largely on the outside and inside 
wrappings. The outside wrappings should be light in weight. Often it is a convenience 
to pack a Itmch in several small boxes rather than in one large box; a small box is sometimes 
packed for each member of a large picnic party. 

2. All paper conveniences are inexpensive, especially if bought in large quantities. 
Pretty paper napkins can be secured for as little as 10 cents per hundred, and are cheaper 

bought in larger numbers. 



DIET FOR CHILDREN 



125 



Cardboard plates are sanitary, light, and inexpensive enough to be discarded after use. 
Paper cartons are used in the same ways in which sealed jars are used (see Note 3). 
Paraffin paper is manufactured in several thicknesses. It is inexpensive if bought by 
the poimd. Paraffin paper keeps foods moist and keeps them from sticking together. It 
also makes the lunch dainty and attractive in appearance. 

For the following reasons, nearly all solid foods for the lunch box should be neatly and 
separately wrapped in paraffin paper; sandwiches may be wrapped individually or col- 
lectively. 

Certain foods dry out qtiickly, such as: 

Cakes Meat loaf 

Rolls Sandwiches 

The flavors and odors of certain foods, such as the following, penetrate other foods : 
Cheese Meats 

Fruits, certain fresh (such as bananas) Onions 

Certain foods are crushed easily, such as: 

Cakes . Eggs, stuffed 

Cookies Fruits, fresh 




B A 




Fici.3 





Fig.5 




A sanitary drinking cup, simple enough for even a young child to prepare, is made as 
follows (such a cup is useful in school, at picnics, or in any emergency) : 

a. Secure an 8*^ or 10"' square of stiff writing or other paper (see Fig. 1 above). 

h. Fold the paper along the dotted Hne AB to make Fig. 2. Then make, in turn, 

Figs. 3, 4, and 5. Pig. 5 is the completed cup. (Note that the cup is more 

secure if the triangular flap on one side is inserted between the two adjoining 

thicknesses of paper.) 



126 LESSONS IN COOKERY 

3. A thermos bottle keeps liquids either hot or cold. The use of two or more thermos 
bottles makes possible hot and cold liquids for the one meal. Thermos jars are useful in 
various wajrs (keeping butter or ice cream cold, keeping stews hot, etc.). 

Sealed jars (glass, etc.) are used for the packing of semi-solid or liquid foods, such as 
butter, jam, fruit sauce, salad or salad dressing, and lemon juice and sugar (in readiness 
for lemonade). Screw-top jars are often convenient. 

State the advantages of wood or aliuninum salt and pepper cases. 

If there are dishwashing facilities in the school, it is sometimes practicable for each pupil 
to have his own knife, fork, spoon, plate, and cup. Enamel-ware plates and cups are light, 
hence suitable for this purpose. 

A nursery refrigerator for the care of children's milk, etc., and a small fireless cooker 
are often convenient for automobile parties- and large picnic parties. 

4. Study Browning, The Box Luncheon (Cornell Reading-Courses). 

SANDWICH FILLINGS 

But one sandwich-filling recipe is here given, inasmuch as sandwich fillings and sand- 
wiches have already been discussed at length on pages 102-103 ("Suggestions for Children's 
Parties") and also in Diet for Adults, pages 114-118. 



Ingredients: 
iHtb. 

Hi. 

i-iMt. 

dash 



Cheese Sandwich Filling 

}4 c. evaporated milk (a Httle more than a fourth of a pound can) 

Ji tb. flour (or }4 tb. cornstarch) 

1 tb. liquid fat (such as Wesson oil, Mazola, or melted butter) 

1 c. medium-rich American cheese (about 6 oz.), measured after being 
chopped fine or grated 

2 pimentos, chopped fine (half a small can) 

J^ t. salt (omit if very salty butter has been used) 



Method: 

Use the double boiler throughout. 

1. Scald the evaporated milk. 

2. Mix the flour and fat to make a smooth paste, add the paste to the hot 
milk, and cook, (with stirring) until mixture is slightly thick. 

3. Add the cheese and, stirring constantly, cook the mixture just until the 
cheese is melted. 

4. Add pimentos and salt, and store mixture in glass jars in refrigerator. 

Notes: 

1. Vary the quantity of fat (0-3 tb.) according to the richness of the cheese. 

2. The fiUing when poured into the jars is as stiff as a drop batter; when chilled, it 
stiffens somewhat. 

3. Pimentos do not keep well, hence do not store cheese filling longer than a few days. 

4. This filling is particularly good on bran or brown bread. 

5. Cheese sandwiches are attractive cut in the shape of triangles, bars, etc. 

6. Garnish a sandwich made with cheese filling with dainty strips or bits of pimento, 
and wrap it in pairafiSn paper. 



DIET FOR CHILDREN 



127 



7. The class recipe for filling is sufficient for one sandwich of ordinary size. 

8. Experiment: Make this filling with other than American cheese; for example, brick 
cream or Roquefort. 

9. Cheese filling to which extra milk has been added is excellent as a sauce over toast. 

MISCELLANEOUS CRACE:ERS AND COOKIES 
Oatmeal Crackers 



Ingredients: 




Itb. 


1 c. fine oatmeal (either Scotch or steel-cut) 


Itb. 


1 c. rolled oats 


2tb. 


2 c. bread flour 


Jitb. 


14 c. sugar 


>^t. 


2 t. salt 


spk. 


Ht.soda 


Itb. 


5i-l c. hot water 


Ht. 


3 tb. fat 



Method: 

1. Mix together the dry ingredients, then add them to a mixture of the' hot 
water and fat. 

2. Roll the dough as thin as possible,, and cut it in squares. 

3. Place squares in a floured pan and bake them in a moderate oven. 

Notes: 

1. Chopped dates, figs, nuts, etc., are a possible addition to the dough (see step 1). . 

2. To make a cracker sandwich, spread a sweet filling (such as jam or date or fig 
paste) between two squares, and bake. 





Corn-Meal Crackers 


# •* <t»«w/«#>^» • 


{Served with soup or stew) 


I ngreuienio, 

Itb. 


1 c. com meal 


2tb. 


2 c. bread flour 


^t. 


2 t. baking powder 


Met. 


% t. salt 


%t. 


2 tb. fat, melted 


Itb. 


IJ^ c. skim milk ' 



Method: i 

1. Chop the fat into a sifted mixture of the dry ingredients. ' 

2. Add the milk, and mix to make a stiff, smooth dough. 

3. Roll dough to H"'-M*' thickness, then cut it with a knife into small triangles, 
squares, or rounds. 

4. Place the crackers on a greased tin, prick them with a fork, add bake them 
&-10 min. in a hot oven. \ ' '-':!: j i 



128 LESSONS IN COOKERY 

General Recipe for Marguerites 
Method: 

1. Secure saltines or oatmeal or other unsweetened crackers, and toast them 
or not, as desired. 

2. Spread them with a 3^*'-Ji*' layer of almost any sweet material (see Note 3), 
such as one of the following: 

Jelly, jam, marmalade, fruit butter, or stewed fruit 

Dates or figs, ground 

Nut butter or meal (such as almond or peanut) , sweetened to taste with powdered 

sugar 
Sirup, very thick (honey, caramel or maple sirup, etc.) 
Marshmallows, whole or sliced 
Marshmallow boiled frosting (steps 8 and 4 which follow are omitted in this 

case; see special recipe below) 

3. Prepare a meringue by beating the following ingredients together with 
either a wire or a Dover beater until it is stiff and has finger-like projections: 

1 white of egg, beaten stiff 
1-2 tb. powdered sugar 

4. Spread meringue on crackers (over the coating of sweet material) in a thick 
layer or pile it in any attractive fancy shapes, using a pastry bag if desired. 

6. Bake the wafers 2-8 min. in a steady moderate oven until the meringue 
is puffed and slightly brown. 

6. Serve wafers with sweet salads or with ices and other desserts. 

Noies: 

1. This or the following dessert is sometimes served without being baked. 

2. Flavoring extract, chopped nuts, cherries, melted chocolate, and coloring pastes are 
possible additions to the meringue. 

3. Let the pupil bring from home marmalade or other sweet material. 





Boiled-Frosting Marguerites 


Ingredients: 






Ma^mallow boiled frosting (see Note 1): 


3tb. 


J^ c. sugar 


2tb. 


Ji c. water 


1 marshmallow 


3 marshmallows, cut in small pieces 


3tb. 


1 white of egg, beaten stiff 


« 


Additions to frosting (see Note 2) : 


4d. 


}/i t. vanilla 


1-2 meats 


Ji c. English walnut or other nut meats, chopped 


Ht. 


H c. of one or any mixture of the following: 




Coconut, shredded 




Currants 




Dates, figs, or raisins, chopped 


lor2 


12-18 double saltines 



DIET FOR CHILDREN 129 

Method: 

1. Prepare the frosting as follows: 

a. Bofl sugar and water together to the "hairing" stage. (Remove the 
class recipe from the fire just as soon as a ]4!' hair can be pulled from 
the spoon by the finger tip.) 

6. Turn gas very low, add marshmallows, and stir just enough to dis- 
solve the candy; avoid much stirring. 

c. Stirring the whites constantly, add the sirup to them in a steady 
stream, then beat 2-3 min. with a Dover beater. 

2. Add the vanilla, nuts, etc., to the frosting. 

3. Spread the saltines with a thick layer of this fancy frosting. 

4. Bake the wafers 6-15 min. in a steady moderate oven until the frosting is 
slightly brown and has risen very high. 

Notes: 

1. The given recipe for frosting is also good for use on cakes; with the addition of the 
nuts, etc., it makes a good cake filling. The marshmallows are not an essential ingredient. 

2. Apricots or any other dried fruits may be substituted for the dried fruits listed. 

3. Marshmallows, used in either of the following ways, swell upon being toasted: 

Used whole or sliced (as candy or in marguerites) 
Used as a part of the boiled frosting for marguerites 
May this swelling be due to (a) steam expansion or (h) swelling of gelatin? 

Gingersnaps 

{Stif dough) 
Ingredients: (4 doz. medium snaps) 

It. Ji c. butter or a substitute 

2 t. 3^ c. molasses (not black) 

It. M c. brown sugar 

2 tb. 1 J^ c. bread flour 

He t. H t. ginger 

^4 1. yi t. soda 

dash 3^ t. salt (to be omitted if fat has been salted) 

14 t. lH-2 tb. flour for rolling 

Method: 

1. Heat the i^t and molasses together until the fat is melted. 

2. Add the sugar and mix well. 

3. Add the 13^ c. flour, ginger, soda, and salt sifted well together. 

4. Chill mixture 13^ hr., or until it is very hard and cold. 

6. Working in a cool room, roll the dough to ^4!^ thickness, cut it into rounds, 
and place them in floured tins. 

6. Bake them 10-15 min. in a moderate oven, 350''-400'' P., or 176''-204'' C. 

Notes: 

1. May these ingredients be mixed by any other methods? 
9 



130 



LESSONS IN COOKERY 



2. Molasses, like chocolate, burns easily. 

3. The following statements are true of snaps in general (ginger, honey, etc.) : 

a. The less flour used, the more delicate the texture of the snaps. 

b. If dough is too soft to handle, chill it; if it is too hard to handle, warm it 
slightly. 

c. All snaps are soft when taken from the oven, but they harden upon being 
cooled. 

4. If preferred, many recipes for snaps, such as the foregoing gingersnaps, may be 
baked as wafers, a type of cooky characterized by extreme thinness. To prepare wafers, 
roll snap or other dough to >{ 6*' thickness, or until it is almost as thin as paper, then bake. 
In preparing the tins, use lard, Crisco, or flour, not butter, so that the wafers will not scorch. 
After wafers are baked, they should fit together like so many coins. Wafers (chocolate, 
ginger, honey, etc., or ice-cream cones) are an excellent handwork lesson. 



Ingredients: 

2t. 

It. 

l^tb. 

dash 

Ket. 

H2t. 

Jit. 



Chocolate Snaps 

{Siif dough) 

{3 doz. 2}^" wafers) 

Ji c. butter or a substitlite 

>^ c. sugar 

1 medium egg, well beaten 

mo. pastry flour 

H t. salt 

3^ t. cinnamon (or 1 1. vanilla) 

yi t. soda 

1 tb. milk 

1 square .(1 oz.) bitter chocolate, melted and cooled 



Melhod: 

1. Prepare the dough by the creamed-fat, or standard, method for cakes, adding 
the chocolate at the very last. 

2. Roll dough to %^ thickness, cut it into rounds, and bake them 10-20 min. 
in a moderate oven. 

Ice-Cream Cones 



Ingredients: 




J^tb. 


Ji c. butter 


Itb. 


J^ c. powdered sugar 


6d. 


J^ t. vanilla or almond 


Htb. 


Ji c. milk 


VAth. 


1 c. pastry flour 



Method: 

1. Beat the first three ingredients together, then slowly add the milk (drop 
by drop at first). 

2. Add the flour, and stir the mixture only until it is smooth. 



DIET FOR CHILDREN 



131 



3. Spread mixture (with a spatula) to y^^ thickness on the bottom of dripping 
pans, inverted and buttered, and mark in 4*^-6'^ squares. 

4. Bake squares in a slow oven 10-15 min., or until they are delicately 
browned, then cut them apart. 

6. Roll each square into a cone or cornucopia, using the softest comer of 
square as the tip of cone. Caution: Roll squares while they are very hot, else 
they will crack. If necessary, return some squares to the oven so as to soften 
them. 

Notts: 

1. The class recipe makes one square 4*^ X 4"'. 

2. If preferred, roll the squares into tubular forms, and fill them with whipped cream. 

3. This mixture is also good spread (raw) by the teaspponf ul in circular forms, and 
baked as wafers. 

Hermits 



Ingredients: 

Mt. 

>itb. 

It. 

Itb. 

M2t. 

dash 

dash 

iHtb. 

Ht. 

It. 



{Soft dough) 

{24 hermits) 

2 tb. butter or a substitute 

J^ c. granulated sugar 

2 eggs, beaten very light 

1 c. bread flour 

J^ t. soda 

J^t. salt 

J^ t. cinnamon 

13^ c. rolled oats (as purchased) 

Ji c. English walnut meats, chopped 

]/i c. raisins, chopped 



Method: 

1. Prepare the dough by the creamed-fat, or standard, method for cakes, adding 
last three ingredients at the end. (For cake method, see Diet for Adults, page 55.) 

2. Using a very little extra flour, roll the dough with the hands into balls l'^ 
in diameter. 

3. Place balls I*' apart on a greased tin, and bake 20-25 min. in a slow oven. 

NUes: 

1. Delicious bran cookies are made by the substitution of 2-23^ c. bran for the IJ^ c. 
rolled oats in this recipe. 

2. Excellent peanut-butter cookies (rich in protein) are made by the substitution of 
5 tb. peanut butter for the 2 tb. fat in this recipe. (Why use 5 tb., not 2 tb., peanut butter? 
Note that peanuts are almost 40 per cent fat.) 

3. The dough for hermits and their derivatives may be dropped by the teaspoonful. 

4. As a rule, either drop cookies or cookies rolled in the hands are made more quickly 
than roll cookies. With most mothers, time is usually an important factor. 

5. Hermits and bran cookies are better when old. 

6. For a variation suitable only for adults, see Appendix G, page 216, Note 5. 



132 LESSONS IN COOKERY 

Corn-Flake Macaroons 



2 eggs, beaten very light 
1 c. granulated sugar 
^ t. vanilla extract 
}4 c. shredded coconut 
4 c. crisp com flakes 



Ingredients: 

Htb. 

Itb. 

4d. 

>4tb. 

Ho. 

Method: 

1. Beat the first three ingredients together thoroughly. 

2. Add the remaining ingredients and mix only enough to make the ingredients 
stick well together. 

3. Drop the mixture by the teaspoonful on a greased tin, and bake 16-25 min. 
in a slow oven. 

4. Cool the macaroons somewhat, then remove them from the tin. 

Miles: 

1. Numerous variations of this recipe are possible; for example: 

a. Beat stiff one or both of the whites of eggs, and fold them into the mixture 
just before it is baked. 

b. Substitute the following for the given ingredients: 

3 whites of eggs, beaten stiff 
1 c. granulated sugar 
H t. almond extract 

1 c. shredded coconut 

2 c. com flakes 

Add the last five ingredients to the beaten whites of eggs, beat the mixture 
until it is smooth, then bake. 

c. Substitute the following for the given ingredients: 

2 eggs, beaten very light 
J^ c. sugar 

}4 c. white com simp 
J^ t. vanilla extract 
1 c. shredded coconut 

3 c. com flakes 
H t. salt 

2. Rolled-oats macaroons (note relation to hermits, page 131) are similar to corn-flake 
macaroons, except for the use of rolled oats, in place of com flakes, and differences in 
fat, etc. Note two possible recipes, in either of which the yolks and whites of eggs may 
be beaten separately, if preferred: 

a. 2 eggs, beaten very light b. 2 eggs, beaten very light 

1 c. granulated sugar 1 c. white com simp 
J^ t. vanilla extract 5i t. vanilla extract 

2 c. rolled oats (as purchased) 4 c. rolled oats (as purchased) 
1 1. salt 1 1. salt 

2 tb. butter, melted and cooled 2 t. baking powder 

2 tb. fat, melted and cooled 



DIET FOR CHILDREN 



133 



Ingredients: 

It. 

2t. 

2t. 

Ht. 

dash 

IHth. 

It. 

4d. 

4 halves 



Drop Peanut Cookies 

{Thkk hatter) 

(60-60 cookies) 

Ji c. butter or a substitute 

J^ c. granulated sugar 

2 eggs, beaten very light 

IJ^ t. baking powder 

3^ t. salt 

1 c. pastry flour 

J4 c. milk 

1 1. lemon juice 

H c. finely chopped peanuts (crisp roasted nuts) 

Halves of peanuts, for the tops of cookies 



Method: 

1. Prepare the batter by the creamed-fat, or standard, method for cakes, 
adding the lemon juice and the chopped nuts at the very last. 

2. Allowing I*' between the cookies, drop the batter by the teaspoonful on a 
greased tin. 

3. Place one-half a peanut on top of each cooky. 

4. Bake the cookies 8-12 min. in a moderate oven. 



Noles: 

1. Avoid extra egg or flour, else the cookies will be tough. 

2. Chopped almonds or other nuts may be substituted for peanuts. 

3. The cookies should flatten in the oven into cakes almost as thin as wafers, 
page 130, Note 4.) 



(oee 



FLOUR MIXTURES MADE WITH SIRUP 

Ingredients for five specific recipes follow. For a general method, and for suggestions 
regarding each of the recipes, see pages 135-136. 



Drop Molasses Cookies 



Ingredients: 


OJ^iS doz. cookies) 


2?itb. 


2 c. bread flour 


It. 


H c. granulated sugar 


yi2t. 


J^t.soda 


dash 


H t. ginger 


Ket. 


1 1. cinnamon 


dash 


J^ t. salt 


2t. 


i4 c. molasses 


It. 


Ji c. boiling water 


It. 


J4 c. fat, melted 


It. 


Ji c. raisins, chopped (optional) 


It. 


1 egg, beaten very light (see Note 5, a, page 135) 



134 



LESSONS IN COOKERY 



Drop Honey Cookies 

Ingredients: (^ ^oz. cookies) 

1 tb. IH c. bread flour 

J^ t. J^ c. granulated sugar 

j^2 t. H t. soda 

It. J^ c. extracted honey 

y^t. Ji c. thick sour milk 

It. 1 egg, beaten very light 

1^ t. J€ c. butter or a substitute, melted and cooled 

5^ t. M c. raisins, chopped (optional) 



Roll Molasses Cookies 

Ingredients: (« ^oz. cookies) 

2 tb. 2 c. bread flour 

Met. - J^t. soda 

Ket. It. ginger 

dash K t. cinnamon 

dash H t. salt 

J^ tb. J^ c. molasses 

1/^ tb. J^ c. thick sour milk 

J^ tb. H c. fat, melted and cooled 

}4 tb. 1-4 tb. bread flour for the board {if necessary for rolling purposes) 



Ingredients: 

2Htb. 

Vst. 

Ht. 

Ke t. 

dash 

Itb. 

Itb. 



Molasses Cake 

2>g c. bread flour 

1^ t. soda 

2 t. ginger 

1 1. cinnamon 

Ji t. salt 

1 c. molasses (not black) 

1 c. thick sour milk 

J4 c. butter or a substitute, melted and cooled 



Ingredients: 



2tb. 

Ket. 

dash 

dash 

J^tb. 

Itb. 

>^tb. 

Ht. 



Honey Cake 

2 c. bread flour 

1 1. soda 

}^t. ginger 

J^ t. cimiamon 

}^ c. sour milk 

1 c. extracted honey 

}4 c. butter or a substitute, melted 

1 egg, well beaten 



DIET FOR CHILDREN 135 

GENERAL METHOD FOR FLOUR MIXTURES MADE WITH SIRUP 

{For drop cookies, roU cookies, and cakes) 

1. Sift together all the dry ingredients. 

2. Mix the wet ingredients together. 

3. Add the dry ingredients to the wet ingredients, and stir the mixttire only 
until it is very smooth; see Note 2. (For an exception as to the combination of 
eggs and boiling water, see Note 5, a.) 

4. Add nuts and fruit, if used (see Note 3). 

6. Place the cookies and cakes in tins, as follows (see Note 4) : 

Drop cookies: Allowing 1*^-2*^ between cookies, drop the batter by the 
teaspoonftd or tablespoonful upon greased tins. If -preferred, drop 
each cooky into a greased muflBn tin. 
RoU cookies: Place these in greased tins. (The cookies should have 
been formed as follows: Working in a cool place, roll the dough to 
Ji*' thickness, then use a cooky-cutter; the less flour used for rolling 
purposes, the more tender the cookies.) 
Cakes: Place batter in a greased shallow pan. 
6. Bake all the flour mixtures in a moderate oven, 374° P., or 190® C. (Beware 
of a hot oven with molasses mixtttres, since they scorch easily.) 

Drop cookies and roll cookies: Bake these 10-20 nwn., or until they are 

firm to the touch. 
Cakes: Bake these 26-30 min., or tmtil they are firm. . Beware of jarring 
the oven or keeping the oven door open. 
NaUs: 

1. Steps 1, 2, and 3 constitute the method generally used with muffins. 

2. Note a general rule for sirup-flour mixtures, especially when sour milk is used: Work 
quickly, mix slightly, and bake at once (else part of the carbon dioxide is likely to escape). 
Thorough blending of all the flour mixtures is essential, however. 

3. Spice, chopped nuts, and fruits are optional ingredients in all sirup-flour mixtures: 
An excellent way to swell raisins, currants, etc., for use in these and other flour mixtures 
(such as fruit cake and hermits) is to soak them, then boil them 1-5 min. in a little water. 

4. Since the flour content of every sirup-flour mixture varies according to the sirup 
used (see page 137, Note 2),.it is often well to bake small test cakes, especially in work 
with cakes and drop cookies. 

5. Note suggestions regarding typical recipes for sirup-flour mixtures on pages 133-134. 
Level measurements of sirup and all other ingredients are essential in all recipes given. 
Suggestions as to drop molasses cookies, page 133: ' 

a. In this, or any other recipe where eggs and boiling water are both used, the 

eggs should be added the last thing, that is, after the dry ingredients have 

been mixed with the water, etc. (Why?) 
h. The raw mixture should be almost as stiff as a soft biscuit dough, that is, 

so stiff that it will scarcely drop from the spoon. 
c. In the beginning it is well to have the oven almost cold, else the cakes will 

not flatten as they should. 



136 



LESSONS IN COOKERY 



d. The class recipe is gcxxl as it is; it is also good if steel-cut oatmeal is substi- 
tuted for all the white flour. (Pupil to test the large recipe, using either 
oatmeal or graham flour; note that both these flours are laxative in effect.) 
Suggestions as to molasses cake, page 134: 
a. It is a thin batter. 
h. New England pudding is a dessert made as follows: Spread whipped cream 

on hot gingercake, then sprinkle it with powdered sugar. 
c. Cheese (such as American) is a possible substitute for the fat in this or any 
other gingercake recipe. 
Suggestions as to the other three recipes, page 134: 

Drop honey cookies: The batter should drop by rather stiff spoonfuls. 
RoU molasses cookies: The dough (soft) should be allowed to stand several hours 
in a refrigerator before it is rolled. The cookies are very plain and economical. 
(Are many other sirup-flour niixtures economical?) 
Honey cake: This is a batter between 1 : 1 and 2:1. 
6. In accordance with Note 2, page 137, let the pupil develop general recipes, that is, 
recipes which are satisfactory with all sirups. Three general recipes are suggested below. 
They are given as a basis for experiment and calculation by the pupil. The first three 
ingredients listed vary in quantity because of variation in the kind of sirup used. 



Ingredients 



Flour, bread 

Sugar, granulated 

Soda 

Spice 

Salt 

Sirup 

Milk, thick sour 

Egg, well beaten 

Fat, melted and cooled 
Fruit, chopped 



Drop Sirup 
Cookies 



l-2Ji c. 
0-4 tb. 
M-lt. 



Jic. . 
legg 
Mc. 
% c. raisins 



Roll Sirup 
Cookies 



i-2y2 c. 
J4-it. 

0-2 1. 

He 

y2c. 

He. 



Sirup Cakes 



Ji-lJ^t. 

0-3 t. 

Ic. 
Ic. 

He. 



General Notes on Sirups for Use in Flour Mixtures 

1. Possible sirups: The following sirups may be used singly or in any suitable com- 
bination in the preparation of breads, cookies, cakes, and other flour mixttires: 
Honey (extracted) Molasses 

Maple sirup Com sirup, ¥4iite or brown (such asKaro) 

Meltose* (a sirup made from Sorghum 

cereals) Fruit sirups as thick as molasses (apple, 

Glucose etc.) 

Pupil to define glucose (sirup). Note that com simp is chiefly glucose. 

A mixture of half honey and half com simp is often especially good (since honey is almost 
too sweet by itself, and corn simp is not sweet enough). 

Flour mixtures made with honey keep fresh much longer than those made with another 
simp or with sugar; honey cakes, etc., will often keep fresh for months. Note economy. 

* The Kellogg Food Company, Battle Creek, Michigan. 



DIET FOR CHILDREN 137 

2. Substitution of sirups: All sirups, including those listed in Note 1, may be used inter- 
changeably in all flour mixtures, cupful for cupful. However, the following facts must be 
considered: 

a. Sirups differ somewhat in sweetness, hence the resultant flour mixtures will 
also differ in this respect. 

b. Slightly varying quantities of the following must be used in the flour mix- 
tures: 

(1) Flour (owing to differences in the thickness of the sirups) 

(2) Leaven, that is, soda or baking powder (owing to differences in the 
acid content of sirups; see Note 3) 

3. Acid content of sirups: 

a. As a rule, molasses from a freshly opened can contains but very little acid. 

b. Molasses bought by the bulk always becomes more or less acid on standing — 
according to whether or not conditions are favorable for fermentation. 

T. Honey 1 is less acid than most molasses, hence, as a rule, it requires less soda 
than molasses; use J^-J^ t. soda to 1 c. honey. {% t. soda is used to 1 c. 
molasses.) 

d. Com sirup contains but very little acid. 

e. Pupil to test the acidity of various sirups by means of litmus paper. 
Soda or baking powder is required as follows in sirup-flour mixtures: 

a. Soda is always required if sour milk is used in a mixture. (It is probably 
true that the majority of sirup-flour mixtures are made with sour milk.) 

6. If sweet milk or boiling water (rather than sour milk) is used in a sirup-flour 

mixture, either soda or baking powder is required, depending upon whether 

or not the sirup is acid, (Molasses, honey, and fruit sirups usually require 

soda; some molasses and most corn sirups require baking powder only.) 

(Baking powder, in addition to soda, is sometimes used in sirup and other flour mixtures.) 

4. Types of molasses: Light (New Orleans); dark (Porto Rico). The dark molasses 
is of stronger flavor, and is especially adapted to gingercake and Indian-meal pudding. 

5. Sirup (molasses, com sirup, etc.) and sugar are both browning agents. 

CAKES MADE WITH SUGARS 
Jelly Roll 



Ingredients: 




Ht. 


3 tb. corn or Wesson oil (see Note 3) 


Itb. 


K c. sugar 


1 h. tb. 


3 eggs, beaten very light 


J^t. 


1 tb. milk 


IJ^tb. 


1 c. pastry flour 


Ht. . 


1 1. baking powder 


Hash 


M t. salt 



1 See Caroline L. Hunt and Helen W. Atwater, " Honey and Its Uses in the Home," Farmers^ 
Bulletin 663, U.S. Department of Agriculture. 

2 For further recipes, see the simplest of the cake recipes (sponge cake, etc.) given in Diet 
for Adults. 



138 LESSONS IN COOKERY 

Method: 

1. Mix the ingredients by the standard cake method or by any other of the 
six methods for cakes containing fat (see Diet for Adults, pages 56-57). 

2. Line the bottom and ends of a cake or dripping pan (about 14"'X10"') with 
a strip of well-greased paper, and grease the sides of pan. - 

3. Cover pan evenly with batter to H^-W depth, and bake it 15-20 min. in 
a moderate oven. 

4. Lift cake from pan by means of the paper, and invert it upon a board cov- 
ered either with a thin layer of powdered sugar or with a slightly dampened cloth. 

6. Perform the following steps immediately and with speed: 
a. Remove paper from cake. 

6. Cut off (or soften by squeezing) hard edges of cake, and spread cake with 
jelly or jam which previously has been beaten to a soft consistency. 

c. Roll cake while it is still very hot. 

d. Sprinkle cake on all sides with powdered sugar. 

e. Wrap cake in paraffin paper so as to keep it in shape. 

Mites; 

1. Avoid extra flour in the recipe, else the cake will crack while being rolled. The 
batter should be between a thin and thick batter; that is, it should pour in a heavy 
stream. 

2. If, after the paper is removed, the cake is too hard to roll, soften it by letting it stand 
in an oven for a moment. 

3. Oils are doubtless better for use in jelly rolls than the hard fats. Miller and Allen 
make the following statement in regard to cakes in general: "The consistency of the fat 
used in cakes has a marked effect upon the texture. Very hard fats produce a fine, close 
grain similar to a pound cake. The cut surface is firm and somewhat resistant to pressure. 
This firmness is due to the hardening of the fat. When eaten the cakes are tender and 
crumble easily. In contrast to these [cakes made with hard fats], cakes made with the 
oils are light and spongy, and have a loose, coarse texture. They are soft instead of 
crumbly in the mouth." ^ 

4. Various sweet materials, such as the following, may be substituted for jelly or jam: 

Fruit butter or paste (such as apricot, date, or fig) 
Thick sirup (such as honey or maple sirup, alone or with whipped cream) 
Almost any cake filling or icing, such as marshmallow boiled frosting, chocolate 
filling, or cream filling or icing. 

5. Possible substitutes for powdered sugar are as follows: 

Coconut, shredded (either white or browaed in oven) 
Macaroons, ground 
Nuts, chopped 

6. Note the following class suggestions: 

a. Spread the class recipe to Ji*' thickness in an oblong pan (such as a bread 
pan 5''X2}4'', bottom measurement), then bake it. 

b. Follow instructions given in Note 2. 

7. See Diet for Adults, page 191, for the use of boiling-water sponge cake as a jelly roll. 
1 " Problems in Cake Making," Journal of Home Economics, December, 1918, page 546. 



DESSERTS 
DESSERTS ALLOWED CHILDREN: A SYNOPSIS 

7. Desserts made on a milk basis (see Note 3) : 

Custards, firm or soft (and their simple derivatives, such as bread 

pudding) 
Ice creams (such as caramel) 
Junket 

Sea-moss puddings 
Sherbets, milk 
Stardiy puddings : 
Arrowroot 
Bread 

Cereal (such as rice, with dates or figs) 
Cornstarch 

Flour (barley, rice, etc.) 
Sago 
Tapioca 
II. Desserts not made on a milk basis: 

Bread, toast, or crackers spread with butter and any of the following 
(for example, in the form of sandwiches) : 

Jams, jellies, and preserved fruits (all homemade) 
Sirup, such as honey, molasses, or ntiaple, com, fruit, or cane- 
sugar sirup (bread spread with thick cream, then with thick 
maple sirup, is good) 
Sugar, sprinkle of (sugar and cinnamon are good on hot buttered 
toast^ 
Cakes, plain, such as: 

Angel and sponge (sunshine cake, lady fingers, etc.) 
Ginger 
Candies, simple homemade, and lump sugar (all taken in small quan- 
tities) 
Cereal, cooked with dates, such as rice or farina (serve with cream or 

fruit juice) 
Cereal, ready-to-eat, such as com or rice flakes or shredded wheat bis- 
cuits (serve with cream or fruit juice) 
Charlotte russe 

Chocolate, sweet (such as milk chocolate), in small quantities 
Comb honey (with milk as a sauce) 

Cookies, plain (such as ginger or bran; the latter are especially desirable) 

139 



140 LESSONS IN COOKERY 

Cream puffs 

Cream, whipped (flavored with prune juice, dry cocoa, or other ingredient) 

Dates, raw or steamed (with plain or whipped cream) 

Fruit desserts (see Note 4) : 

Fruit, raw 

Fruit, stewed 

Fruit toasts 

Gelatin jellies (such as orange or prune jelly) 

Ices and sherbets 

Shortcakes 

Whips (apple snow, snow pudding, etc.) 

NaUs: 

1. This list is not specified for any one age of child, since each mother must use her 
own judgment, or that of an authority, according to the age and health of the child. Only 
very simple forms of the desserts listed should be given. 

2. The following sauces may be poured over many of the desserts listed: 

Milk 

Cream, plain or whipped 
Fruit juice (from raw or cooked fruit) 
The milk and cream may be flavored with sugar and vanilla; and, too, they may be 
tinted. 

3. Junket and other* desserts made on a milk basis are especially useful in the diet of 
the child who does not like milk as a beverage. 

Blanc mange is the term used to designate any white molded pudding made on a milk 
basis, such as: 

Cornstarch mold 

Sea-moss mold 

Jxmket 

Custard, baked (made with the white of egg only) 

4. Milk and naturally sweet fruit are doubtless the best sources of sugar for children. 
If little or no sugar is added to the fruit, any of the following kinds of fruit may be used: 

Fruit, dried (dates, figs, prunes, raisins, etc.) 
Raw 

Cooked (stewed, steamed, or baked) 
Fruit, not dried (almost any kind, if fresh, ripe, and not too sour) : 
Raw fruit, served as follows: 

By itself 

With shredded wheat biscuits (use strawberries, etc.) 

As a filling for popovers or simple shortcake 

As a spread for toast, etc. 
Fruit cooked as follows: 

Freshly stewed (highly recommended) 

Steamed 

Baked (such as apples) 

5. Sweets, if taken in great moderation and at meal time, are good for growing chil- 
dren. Sweets never should be given between meals. If simply prepared, the dessert may 



DIET FOR CHILDREN 141 

furnish a large proportion of the nutriment represented in a meal. The following are 
examples of very simple desserts: 
Snow pudding 
Baked custard 
Floating island 
. Jtmket, a flavored and jellied milk (one of the simplest and most digestible of 
all desserts) 
Ice cream with plain cake constitutes an almost balanced combination and sometimes 
is a good meal even for children. 

"Avoid all cake except plain cookies, gingerbread, or sponge cake, and [give] these latter 
only to older children in limited quantity." * 

6. Milk sugar (powdered) is an excellent form of sugar to use in the preparation of many 
desserts for children. 

Certain Battle Creek authorities recommend Meltose (a malt sugar) as a substitute 
for cane or beet sugar in all recipes. These authorities make the following statement 
concerning Meltose candies and marmalade: "Even children may indulge as freely as they 
like in these sweets. They are as harmless as bread." 

THICKENING AGENTS USED IN COOKING* 

The following agents are used for thickening (stiflEening, jellying, or setting) 
milk, other liquids, and thin mixtures: 
Non-starchy materials: 

*Albumin, found in eggs (see Note 2) 
Agar-agar (sold as "vegetable gelatin") 
Gelatin 
Okra 

Pectin (of use in fruit jellies and marmalades) 
*Rennin 

*Sea-moss (Irish, Iceland, etc., including powdered moss) 
Starchy materials (see Notes 3-7) : 

*Arrowroot Plour (many kinds) 

♦Cornstarch Flour, partially dextrinized (browned by dry heat) 

Manioca Bread or cracker crumbs 

Potato starch Floiu" pastes (macaroni, spaghetti, vermicelli, and 

Rice powder noodles) 

*Sago Breakfast cereals (farina, rice, pearl barley, 

*Tapioca rolled oats, etc.) 

Additional agent : 
Evaporation 

Notes: 

1. The asterisk denotes agents which are probably more commonly used with milk 
than with any other liquid or with a thin mixture. 

* Mary Swartz Rose, The Feeding of Young Children. 

2 This outline is applicable in the preparation of desserts and all other dishpc 



142 LESSONS IN COOKERY 

The following terms are sometuues used in cooking (pupil to give examples of each) : 

Milk jellies 

Starch jellies 

Custard jellies, or custards (both egg-milk and egg-starch) 
For a definition of ''blanc mange/' see page 140, Note 3. 

2. Two yolks of eggs may be used in place of one whole egg; this is a general nile in 
cooking, applicable to practically all recipes. The rule has special bearing upon the thicken- 
ing value of eggs. 

3. The first seven of the starchy agents listed are practically pure starch. Which of 
these is the purest form of starch? Compare jellies made from these so-called pure starches 
with regard to (o) color and clearness, (b) flavor, (c) consistency. 

Outline the steps in the manufacture of starch from com. (See Sherman, Food Prod- 
ucis, pages 25^262; Remsen, Organic Chemistry, 1909 ed., pages 202-203, etc.) 

4. Flour, upon being browned, loses in thickening power. If flour is heated until it 
is very brown, the flotir has no thickening value. 

5. Discuss the composition and manufacture of macaroni and spaghetti. 

6. Unsweetened chocolate is about 28 per cent starch. Although chocolate is used 
chiefly as a flavoring, yet its thickening value must always be taken into accoimt. 

7. In adding starchy powders and meals to hot or cold liquids, use one or more of the 
following blends (pupil to add to the lists of recipes in which these blends may be used): 

a. Dry blend (such as sugar), used in preparing: 

Creajn-pie fillings (lemon, etc.) 
Puddings (cornstarch, etc.) 
Pudding sauces 

b. Fat blend (butter or a substitute), used in preparing: 

Gravies 

Sauces (white, etc.) 

Soups 

c. Cold-liquid or tepid-liquid blend (only a small quantity of liquid is employed), 
used in preparing: 

Gravies 

Sauces (white, etc.) 
Soups 
Is it ever advisable to use any of the following in adding starchy powders and meals 

to liquids? 

Large quantity of cold or warm liquid, as a blend 
Hot liquid, as a blend 
No blend 

8. Pupil to supply data for a table, using the following headings: 



Thickening Agents 

(Including all those listed 

on page 141) 



Source 

(Such as plant and country 

from which derived; 



Uses 

(In puddings, soups, gravies, 

sauces, etc.) 



9. Pupil, as far as possible, to state the quantity of each of the non-starchy and starchy 
agents required to set, or mold, 1 c. liquid in a recipe which is to be served ice cold. Use 
past experience, experiment, and standard cookbooks as a basis for answers. 



DIET FOR CHILDREN 



143 



The following data (average quantities required to solidify, or mold, 1 c. liqii^d in a 
recipe which is to be served ice cold) are offered to the pupil as a basis for discussion and 
experiment: 

1 whole egg, or 2 yolks of eggs (in firm custard) 

2 t. granulated gelatin 
Ji junket tablet 

1 1. rennet 

J^e oz. agar-agar (so-called vegetable gelatin) 

6-8 tb. partially dextrinized flour 

3 tb. flour 

2 tb. sago or granulated tapioca 
1}/^ tb. cornstarch 
1 tb. arrowroot 

REAGENTS COAGULATING (CURDLING) MILK 

The following table deals with reagents which cause the casein of milk to sepa- 
rate from the whey. 

Pupil to mention various uses of the reagents under the headings given below: 



Reagents 



I. Rennin: 

1. Rennet (a liquid) 

2. Junket tablets (rennin tablets) 

II. Organic acids: 

1. Adds in tomato and many vegetable 
juices 

2. Acids in lemon and other fruit 
juices 

3. Dilute acetic add (vinegar) 

4. Lactic add, produced by lactic-add 
bacteria: 

a. Natural 

b. Artificial (such as Lactone tablets) 
III. Mineral adds (such as hydrochloric 



add). 



Home or Factory 
Cheese-Making 



General 
Cooking 



Digestion 



Notes: 

Add one or two drops of dilute acid (any kind) to a small quantity of milk, let mixture 
stand a few minutes,.then strain through cheesecloth, and examine the texture of curd. 



144 LESSONS IN COOKERY 

SIMPLE FRUIT DESSERTS i 

(Not made on a milk basis) 

Fresh Fruit Stewed 
Ingredients: 

Raw fruit (fresh and mild) in season, such as: 

Apples Cherries 

Apples (sweet) and quinces Peaches 

Apricots Plums 

Water (almost to cover, or just enough to keep the fruit from scorching) 

Sugar (if necessary) 

Method: 

1. Wash the fruit, and in some cases pare or peel it and cut it in slices. 

2. Add water, and stew the fruit until it is tender. 

3. Add sugar (to some fruits), stir to dissolve the sugar, then cook the fruit 
1-2 min. longer. 

Note- 
Freshly stewed fruits in season are an excellent form of fruit for children. They (and 
other cooked fruits) are especially valuable in summer diet. To steam fruits, place them 
in a granite basin, add sugar, and cook them in a steamer imtil they are tender. 

Dried Fruit Stewed 

Method: 

J.. Wash dried fruit (such as apricots, dates, figs, prunes, or raisins) and soak 
it over night in cold water to cover. 

2. Stew the fruit in this same water until it is tender, adding a little sugar if 
desired (stone the dates, as a rule, before cooking them). 

NoUs: 

1. If a date or fig paste is desired, cook fruit to a pulp; such paste is good in sand- 
wiches or with cereal, such as rice. 

2. Lemon juice is sometimes an addition to dates or figs stewed whole or in \e form 
of a paste. 

3. Fruit prepared by this method or by one of the two succeeding methods is good 
served in either of the following ways: 

As a dessert by itself 

With rice or other cereal either as a dessert or as a breakfast food 

Dried Dates or Figs Steamed 

Method: 

1. Cleanse dried fruit and steam it until it is very tender. Stone dates, if 
desired, before steaming them. 

2. Serve fruit with cream. 

1 It is recommended that the pupil bring from home fruits for use in part or all of the fruit- 
dessert lessons. 



DIET FOR CHILDREN 145 

Dried Dates or Figs Served Raw 
Method: 

1. Separate dried dates or figs, wash them, place them in a sieve, and plunge 
them into boiling water for an instant only. 

2. Drain, and cover them with cold water. 

3. Dry them on a towel or in a warming oven or in the sun. 

4. Place them in a glass dish, chill them, and garnish with plain or whipped 
cream and a sprinkle of powdered sugar. Sometimes the fruit is chopped before 
being served. 

NcU: 

As an extra precaution against contamination (see step 1) it is sometimes well to 
steam, or puff, the fruit for a short time. Thorough cleansing of the fruit is essential, 
both because of the danger of bacteria and because the fruit is more appetizing. 

Cereal Flakes with Fruit Juice or Sauce 

Method: 

1. Toast cereal flakes (such as com, rice, or wheat) in the oven until they are 
very crisp. 

2. Serve them with pure unthickened fruit juice or with a thickened fruit 
sauce. (See hot pudding sauce, Diet for Adults, page 78.) 

Fruit Toast 

Method: 

1. Toast stale bread until it is crisp and brown (graham or bran bread is often 
preferable to other breads). 

2. Butter toast, and pottr over it fruit pulp as thick as heavy cream prepared 
by. stewing, then straining, any of the following fresh, dried, or canned fruits 
(as a rule, it is advisable to add sugar to the strained pulp, then to stew mixture 
1-5 min. before pouring it over the toast) : 

Apples Grapes 

Apricots Peaches 

Berries (raspberries, etc.) Plums 

Dates Prunes 

Figs (such as black figs) Etc. 

3. Serve toast hot or cold either as a dessert for supper or luncheon or 'as a 
breakfast dish (to take the place of cereal and fruit) ; plain or whipped cream is 
sometimes added. 

Notts: 

1. The following are possible additions to the fruit pulp used in this recipe: 

Thickening paste (occasionally used; see recipe on page 146 for stewed fruit 

thickened) 
Yolk and white of egg (beaten separately or together) 

10 



146 LESSONS IN COOKERY 

2. Any one of the following may be substituted for strained fruit pulp in this recipe: 

a. A fig paste, made by grinding or chopping dried figs, then stewing them 

b. Marmalade prepared from the following ingredients: 

Orange rinds (both orange-colored and white parts), ground fine in a food- 
grinder 

Apples, chopped 

A small quantity of orange juice and pulp 

Sugar (limited quantity) 
Orange rinds furnish bulk, hence the recipe is very economical. The recipe is 
of excellent value in children's diet, being used as a spread for bread, as well 
as for preparing fruit toast. 

c. Raw fruit (for example, sliced oranges with sugar are good served on hot toast) 

d. Stewed fruit, imstrained (not for use with very young children) 

3. Fruit toasts are often useful for combating constipation, especially in the case of 
children. (Chopped nuts are occasionally added to the fruit for toasts to be used in diet 
for adults; pine and other oily nuts are sometimes laxative in their action.) 



Ingredients: 

2t. 

2tb. 



Stewed Fruit Thickened 

1 tb. cold water 

3^1 tb. cornstarch or arrowroot 

1 c. hot stewed fruit (preferably strained), sweetened to taste 

1 1. lemon juice 

}4 tb. butter 



Method: 

1. Add the cold water to the starch and stir to make a smooth paste. 

2. Add the paste to the hot fruit and stir mixture over the fire until it is thick. 

3. Add lemon juice and butter, and remove recipe at once from the fire. 

Notes: 

1. Beaten egg ms^ be substituted for starch as a thickening agent for the fruit. 

2. Sauce made in this way is also good as a filling for sandwiches. 

Baked Banana 

Method: 

1. Remove the skin and the fibers from a banana. 

2. Dip the whole banana or lengthwise halves into lemon juice or into a mixture 
of egg and water (1 beaten egg to J^ c. water). 

3. Roll banana in buttered crumbs and place it in a buttered pan. 

4. Bake banana in a very hot oven about 10 min., or just until it is soft and the 
juice begins to flow and the crumbs are brown; do not cook beyond this point, 
else the banana will be dark, poor in flavor, and tough, owing to loss of juice. If 
the fruit is not brown at the end of 10 min. in the baking oven, hold it next the 
broiling flame for a few seconds in order that it may brown. 

6. Serve with a fruit sauce such as foamy orange sauce (see recipe on page 147). 



DIET FOR CHILDREN 



147 



NaUs: 



1. Pupil to supply data for the comx>08itioni of bananas, edible portion: 





Pbrcbntagb 




Very Ripe 


Unripe 


Protein 






Fat 






Starch 






Sucrar 






Mineral matter 






Water 













1 large white of egg, beaten stiff 
J^ c. powdered sugar 
Grated rind of J^ orange 
3 tb. orange juice 
1 tb. lemon juice 



2. Unripe bananas contain starch, hence they should not be eaten except in the cooked 
state. Any banana that is fit to be eaten raw should be so ripe that its skin has turned dark 
brown or black; this is especially true in the case of children's diet. Really ripe bananas, 
being chiefly sugar and water, are easily digested. Any banana eaten raw should be well 
masticated. In general, it is safer to avoid raw bananas with children. 

Foamy Orange Sauce 

Ingredients: 

2tb. 
Itb. 
dash 
It. 

Method: 

h Gradually add sugar to the white of egg and beat about J^ min. with a 
Dover beater; if the white is large enough, the mixture will stand up with finger- 
like projections. 

2. Fold in the other ingredients. Serve at once. (Why?) 

1. Blood oranges are attractive for. use in this recipe. 

2. Foamy orange sauce is simply a meringue flavored with plenty of fruit juice. It 
is much like thin whipped cream in appearance. 

Fruit Rice-Balls 

Method: 

1. Boil rice 8-15 min., or until it is almost tender. 

2. Wring 1-ft. squares of cheesecloth out of hot water, and spread them on 
separate plates. 

*For many of the data see Pease and Rose, "The Banana as a Food for Children," Ameri- 
can Journal of Diseases of Children, XIV (November, 1917), 379. 



148 LESSONS IN COOKERY 

3. In the center, of each cloth spread a circle of rice V in diameter and J^*' thick. 

4. Place 2-3 tb. filling (such as a stewed apricot, or apple or other fruit sauce) 
in the center of each circle, and draw rice and cloth around the fruit to form balls. 

6. Tie tight and steam 10 min. 

6. Remove cloths and invert balls on plates, smooth side on top. 

7. Serve with a fruit sauce or cream and sugar; 

Naies: 

1. Recommendations for quantity of rice: 

a. 3 tb. raw rice for a ball of sufficient size for an ordinary serving. 

b. 2 tb. raw rice for a class recipe (steam the ball in an 8' square of cheesecloth 
in a small sieve set in the top of a deep saucepan, such as the top of a double 
boiler) 

2. Possible fillings for rice-balls (some of which are for use in adults* diet only) : 

Fruit sauce, sweetened to taste (from fresh or dried fruit, such as apricots) 

Raw fruit (such as strawberries) 

Protein foods (resulting in so-called complete rice-balls) : 

Cheese Fish 

Egg, hard-cooked (or yolk only) Meat 

Legumes, dried (kidney beans, etc.) Nuts 

Avoid very juicy fillings, especially if the balls are boiled. A filling is riot an essential, 
part of a rice-ball; for example, balls made with no filling are good with chicken stew. 

3. Possible methods for cooking rice-balls: 

Steam: See foregoing method. 

Boil: Drop the balls into either boiling water or a stew of fruit or meat. Use 
raw or partially cooked rice; if raw is used, allow it plenty of space for swelling. 
Note the disadvantages of using raw rice: 

It is difficult to tell just how much space to leave in bag. 
It is difficult to tell when rice is tender. 
Fry (for use in adults' diet only; see Diet for Adtdts, page 90, Note 3). 

Sunflower Orange 

Method: 

1. Secure a large orange with a thick skin. 

2. Cut the skin of the upper half of the orange into eight radiating sections. 

3. Separate each section of skin from the orange, but do not tear it off entirely. 

4. Roll back these petals. 

6. Slightly separate the orange sections at the top, garnish center with a 
stuffed date, and serve. 

NoU: 

Various other methods for serving raw oranges are as follows: 

a. Extract juice and serve in a glass cup. 

b. Cut fruit in halves, and serve. 

c. Without peeling the orange, cut across sections at slightly varying angles, 
thus forming irregular slices (hold each slice in the fingers while eating). 



DIET FOR CHILDREN 



149 



Ingredients: 

2tb. 



to taste 



0-3 1. 



dash 

few drops 

spk. 

spk. 

3-4 tb. 



1-3 tb. 
It. 



Fruit Escalloped with a Starchy Material 

{Excellent for the use of left-avers) 
(4-6 servings) 

1 c. f niit selected singly or in any suitable combination from the following 
list (see Note 1) : 

Marmalades, jams, jellies, and canned fruits 
Dried fruits, raw or stewed; 
Apricots Peaches 

Cherries (candied, etc.) Prunes 

Dates Raisins 

Figs Etc. 

Fresh fruits, raw or stewed: 
Apples, tart Pineapple 

Apricots Raspberries 

Grapes, white Strawberries 

Peaches Etc. 

Flavorings to taste selected from the following list: 

Sweetening, selected singly or in any combination from the 
following: 
0-4 tb. sugar, brown or white (use 4 tb. brown sugar with 

apples) 
Sirup (such as honey, com sirup, or molasses) 
Cinnamon and other spice (very good with apples) 
Butter .or a substitute (about 1 tb.) 
Lemon juice (excellent with apples, etc.) 
Rind of orange or lemon, grated 
Dash of salt 
ttc. 
13^2 c. starchy material, selected singly or in any combination from the 
following: 

Bread or cracker cnmibs, coarse (see Note 2) 
Bread slices (see blueberry pudding, page 152) 
Cake (plain) slices, such as stale sponge or angel cake 
Cereal, cooked (such as rice, hominy, or farina) 
Flour paste, cooked (macaroni, noodles, etc.; good- with sour- 
apple sauce) 
Tapioca or sago, cooked (see Note 6) 
Etc. 
Water or other liquid, in some cases (see step 2 of method) 
Buttered crumbs (often omitted) : 
6 tb. dry cnmibs 
1 tb. butter (or a substitute), melted 



Method: 

1. Place the fruit and starchy material in a buttered baking dish in alternate 
layers, adding flavorings to taste to each layer of fruit. 

2. If the fruit and starchy material are at all dry, add just enough liquid 



150 LESSONS IN COOKERY 

to cover the bottom of the baking dish; select the liquid singly or in any suitable 
combination from the following: 

Water 
Fruit juice 
Milk 

3. Spread surface with buttered crumbs and bake pudding in a moderate oven 
10-45 min., or until the fruit is tender and the pudding is hot throughout and 
brown on top. 

4. If desired, cover pudding with meringue after it is baked, and brown it 
in either the baking or broiling oven. (Buttered crumbs are superfluous when 
meringue is used.) 

6. Serve hot or cold as a dessert, with almost any pudding sauce, such as: 

Sugar and cream (plain or whipped) 

Soft custard 

Fruit juice or jelly 

Caramel sauce 

Hard sauce 
Garnish with jelly, if desired. 

Miles: 

1. Fresh fruits may either be sliced thin or be left whole; for example, peaches and 
apples (cored and filled with sugar) are good left whole. 

2. Brown betty is the name given the pudding when the fruit consists of apples, bread 
crumbs are used as the only starchy ingredient, and brown sugar or molasses is used as 
sweetening. Grated cheese is sometimes added; if cheese is used, butter may be omitted. 
One kind of jellied apples results upon treating brown betty as follows: 

a. Cover, and bake slowly 3 hr. ^ • 

b. Chill, and turn from mold. 

(Another jellied-apple recipe is made by the use of gelatin.) 

Oatmeal betty is made by the substitution of cooked oatmeal for the crumbs of brown 
betty. 

3. By the omission of sugar and spice, escalloped apples (prepared with bread crumbs, 
noodles, or cereal) may be served in place of a vegetable. 

4. Beaten yolk and white of egg, one or both (beaten together or separately),. are pos- 
sible addittoos. Where eggs are used, either bake the pudding in a very slow oven or 
serve it without baking. (See tapioca and other tjustards. Diet for Invalids.) 

5. Discuss the manufacture of tapioca from cassava. 

6. The following points are useful when tapioca is used as the starchy ingredient in# 
this recipe {c and d apply as well when rice, farina, etc., are used) : 

a. Approximately 2 c. cooked tapioca (^ c. in the class recipe) result when the 
following are cooked together: 



Itb. 
dash 
It. 



2 c. water 

J4 c. dry granulated ("minute") tapioca 
>it.salt 

3 tb. sugar 



DIET FOR CHILDREN 151 

Scald the water, add the other three ingredients (salt and sugar are essential 
here as well as in the fruit layers later), and ccxjk the mixture in a double 
boiler 12-20 min., or until the tapioca is clear, that is, the snow-whiteness is 
gone. Less time is reqtiired if direct heat is used, but constant stirring is 
essential. 

The following are possible substitutes for part or all of the water (water is 
generally used in preparing apples escalloped with tapioca) : 
Milk (used with dates, etc.) 
Cocoa and chocolate (hot beverages) 
Fruit juice (color effects of peach, grape, cranberry, etc., juices are 

effective) 
Jelly or jam, diluted ^th water 
The following are possible substitutes for minute tapioca: 

Sago: This may be substituted for tapioca in this or any other recipe. If 
as fine as minute tapioca, it needs no soaking; if it is coarse, soak it 
J^2hr. 
Pearl tapioca (usually cheaper than minute tapioca) : Soak J^2 hr. in cold 
water to cover, then drain. For J^ c. dry minute tapioca, substitute 
% c. dry pearl tapioca or 1 J^ c. pearl tapioca measured after being soaked 
2 hr.; drain the latter well before measuring. In the class recipe, sub- 
stitute 3 tb. pearl tapioca (measured after being soaked over night) for 
1 tb. minute tapioca. 

b. Buttered crumbs are not desirable on tapioca pudding. 

c. Tapioca pudding may be served without being baked, in either of the following 
ways: 

(1) Place fruit (such as cubes of fresh pineapple) in glass cups, add the 
cooked tapioca, and serve. 

(2) Cook tapioca and liquid together 2-10 min. in a double boiler, then 
add fruit, sugar, and flavorings, cook mixture 5^30 min. in the double 
boiler until fruit is tender, and serve. (See quick fruit tapioca pudding, 

* page 152.) 
Either (1) or (2) will turn from the mold if non-juicy fruit is used and a little 
less liquid or a little more tapioca is used in the tapioca mixture. Cook the 
latter until a sHJf batter is produced, then pour it into molds and chill. Turn 
from molds, and serve with plain or whipped cream or soft custard. 

d. It is wdl to add strawberries and some other soft fruits to the tapioca after 
the latter is cold; otherwise the fruit is cooked too much. 

Shortcake 

Method: 

1. Split one of the following, then fill it with crushed raw fruit or cranberry 
or other fruit sauce: 

Plain baking-powder biscuit 
Muffin (such as graham) 

2. Refit halves of biscuit or muffin and pour fruit over the top. 



162 LESSONS IN COOKERY 

Blueberry Pudding 

Method: 

1. Cook blueberries with sugar and a little water until the skins begin to crack. 

2. Remove all the crust from a loaf of bread, then slice the loaf. ' 

3. Place a layer of these bread slices in a mold, then add a layer of fruit sauce. 

4. Repeat putting in layers of bread and fruit until all of each is used. 

6. Put a plate and flat irons over the pudding, and let it stand several hoiu-s 
in the refrigerator. 

6. Turn pudding out of mold, slice, and serve with cream and sugar. 

Miles; 

1. This is a good camp recipe. 

2. Experiment in substituting other ingredients for blueberries in this recipe, such as 
jelly, jam, marmalade, and variotis other sweets. 

Quick Fruit Tapioca Pudding 



Iniredients: 


(e servings) 


2Mt. . 


6 tb. minute tapioca 


It. 


3 tb. sugar 


He. 


2 c. hot water 


dash 


Mt. salt 


1-3 1. 


J^-J^ c. dried fruit (washed, soaked, and chopped), such as 




Cherries 




Currants 




Dates 




Figs 




Raisins 



Meihod: 

1. Mix all the ingredients and cook them 20 min. in a double boiler, stirring 
occasionally. Keep the utensil covered as far as possible. 

2. Serve the dessert hot with cream and sugar; or pour it into molds wet with 
cold water, turn pudding out when it is cold and set, and add cream and sugar. 

Noies: 

1. This recipe may be varied in numerous ways by the use of the fruit, flavorings, and 
substitutes for tapioca which are listed ia the recipe for fruit escalloped with a starchy 
material, pages 149-151. And, too, milk may be substituted for the water called for in 
the recipe. 

2. This recipe (no eggs) is a simple, inexpensive derivative of tapioca cream (see Diet 
for Invalids). 

Grape Apples 

Method: 

1. Pare and core tart apples, boil them in grape juice imtil they are tender, 
then drain them, and place in glass dishes. 

2. Boil down the^ juice to a thick sirup, and pour it over the apples. 



DIET FOR CHILDREN 



153 



SIMPLE GELATIN JELLIES 

(Not made on a mUk basis) 

In preparing the following and other simple gelatin jellies, tise the general method 
given below: 



Ingredients: 

3Htb. 

2t. 

2t. 

5it. 



Orange Gelatin Jelly 

(5 servings) 
2M t. granulated gelatin 
J^ c, or 2 tb., cold water (for soaking gelatin) 
% c. boiling water 
K c. sugar 
yi c. orange juice 
1 tb. lemon jmce 



Noles: 

1. This is an average set of ingredients. It may be used as a basis of comparison for 
all simple gelatin jellies. 

2. The class recipe, if chilled, sets in 30 min. The omission of orange juice and the 
^crease of lemon juice to 1 1. results in a good class recipe for lemon jelly. 



Ingredients: 

It. 
Itb. 
He 
iHtb. 

1 large prune 



Prune Gelatin Jelly 

(6 servings) 

2 tb. granulated gelatin 

}4 c. cold water (for soaking gelatin) 

1 J^ c. boiling-hot prune liquor (or a mixture of prune liquor and water) 

% c. sugar 

3 tb. lemon juice 

1 c. stewed prunes, unsweetened (see Notes 1 and 2) 



Noies: 

1. Ji lb. dried prunes results in about 1 c. stewed pnmes. Stew pnmes as follows: 

a. Pick over, wash, and soak dried prunes over night in cold water to cover. 

b. Simmer them in the same water until they are pltunp and tender. 
Peaches, apricots, etc., may be substituted for prunes. 

2. Add the stewed pnmes to the gelatin mixture (strained or not) just before it is molded ; 
stir occasionally after the dessert is in the mold. Why? 

3. Note suggestions as to class recipe: 

a. If plenty of time and ice are available, % t. gelatin is sufficient. 

b. Use a custard cup as a mold. If time is limited, use a tin mold. Why? 

GENERAL METHOD FOR SIMPLE GELATIN JELLIES 

1. Soak gelatin 5-10 min., or until it is soft, in 3 or 4 times as much cold liqtiid 
as gelatin; the longer the period of soaking, the more delicate the resultant 
dessert. 

2. Boil remainder of liquid (see Note 2), add soaked gelatin, remove mixture 
from fire, and stir imtil the gelatin is dissolved. 



154 LESSONS IN COOKERY 

3. Dissolve sugar and flavoring in the liquid. 

4. Strain gelatin into molds, cover it, and let it stand in a cold place until it 
is firm. The gelatin sets more quickly if the following points are observed: 

a. Tin molds (or certain others) are used in preference to granite. 
Explain. 

b. Small, rather than large molds, are used. 

c. The molds are set in a pan of snow or chopped ice. The gelatin 
sets especially soon if ice-cream salt and a little water are added 
to the snow or ice; both these agents help to lower the temperature. 

6. When ready to serve, observe either direction a or 6 below, then turn 
gelatin from the moM: 

a. Dip a knife into hot water, then slip it around between the jelly and 
the mold. 

b. Dip mold in hot water for an instant. 
Serve with part or all of the following: 

Sugar (powdered or granulated) 

Cream (whipped or not) 

Fruit (such as strawberries or cherries) 

Miles; 

1. The average proportion used in simple gelatin jellies is 2 1. granulated gelatin to 1 c. 
water. Increase the proportion of gelatin under any of the following conditions: 

a. If an extra proportion of lemon juice or other add ingredient is used, either 
in liquid form or in the form of solid fruit. 

b. If any raw-pineapple juice is used. 

c. If an especially stiff gelatin is desired. 

d. If the weather is warm and ice is not available. 

e. If it is desirable to have the gelatin harden i-i a very short time. 

In other words, the ratio between dry gelatin and total liquid used varies according to 
the following conditions: 
Acidity of liqtiid 

Presence or absence of raw-pineapple juice 
Stiff ness desired 
Temperature 
Time available 

2. The liquid for gelatin jellies (desserts, salads, and stock jelliesj consists of one or 
any suitable combination of the following: 

Water (used in part in nearly all gelatins) 
Juice of either fresh or cooked fruit, such as: 

Apples Oranges 

Blackberries Pineapple (sirup) 

Cherries Plums 

Cranberries (sirup) Prunes 

Currants Raspberries 

Grapes Rhubarb 

Lemons Etc. 

Coffee (for use in adults' diet only, as a rule) 



DIET FOR CHILDREN 165 

Cream (not whipped) 

Milk 

Vegetable juice, such as cucumber, mint, or tomato (used only in salads; see 

gelatin-jelly salads, Diet for Adults ^ pages 160-162). 
Meat stock, resulting in either of the following: 

Simple meat jelly 

Aspic jelly 
Etc. 

No set ratios for liquids can be stated; thus any of the items listed may constitute a 
greater or lesser part of the total liquid used. The flavoring, such as fruit jmce, often makes 
up the greater part of the liquid. What is Jello? 
3. Possible additions to gelatin jellies include: 

Salt (a dash of salt is advisable in the average gelatin dish, especially if nuts 

are present) 
Flavorings (caramel, maple, and occasionally extracts, such as vanilla) 
Coloring pastes 
Gelatin jellies are molded simple and clear, or any of the following ingredients (singly 
or in any combination) are folded in just before the jellies set: 

Chocolate, melted and cooled Fruit, dried or fresh, raw or cooked: 

Cream, whipped Whole (berries, prunes, etc.) 

Custard, soft Sliced (such as bananas and oranges) 

Egg whites, beaten Chopped (dates, figs, etc.) 

Macaroons, ground Mashed to a pulp 

Marshmallows (cut in quarters) Seeds of raw pomegranate (pretty 

Nuts, chopped (almonds, etc.) color effect) 

Does the use of any of these additions change the proportion of gelatin used?* 
4. The five chief classes of gelatin desserts in general are as follows (this classification 
is in accordance with the preceding note) : 

Simple jellies: Not beaten, and usually clear; fruit and nuts are often moldt in 

the jellies. 
Simple jellies: Beaten, and usually clear before being beaten. (Air makes the 
jellies lighter in color and in texture; compare the increase in bulk with the 
increase in bulk in white-of-egg and gelatin whips.) 
Bavarian creams: Simple jellies with whipped cream folded in just before the 
jellies set. (See rice Bavarian cream, page 113; also see Diet for Adults y page 
201, Note 5.) (In what way are charlottes related to Bavarian creams? 
See IV, page 107 of this book.) 
Spanish creams: Simple jellies with custards beaten in as the jellies begin to 

stiffen. (See Diet for Invalids^ under derivatives of soft custard.) 
White-of-egg and gelatin whips: Simple jellies with whites of eggs (beaten or 
tmbeaten) whipped in as the jellies begin to stiffen. Allow one white of egg 
to each cup of jelly. (See Diet for Adults ^ page 198.) 
These desserts are especially useful in children's (and invalids') diets. 
Pupil to discuss other gelatin dishes, such as marshmallows and gtun drops. 
Can so-called vegetable gelatin also be used in the preparation of these desserts and 
candies? Let the pupil experiment. 



166 LESSONS IN COOKERY 

5. Shredded and sheet gelatins require a longer period of soaking than granulated 
gelatin. Why? 

6. If desired, mold gelatin jellies in various ways; for example: 

a. Mold the jellies in numerous fancy shapes. Orange and other fruit cups 
and baskets are often attractive as molds. 

b. Mold a fruit gelatin in layers, as follows: 

(1) Pour a little gelatin into a mold, then add a layer of sliced bananas or 
other fruit. (Fruit floats on gelatin.) 

(2) Chill mixture until it is firm, then add more gelatin (liquid, but not 
hot) ; add fruit, and chill. 

(3) Repeat putting in alternate layers of gelatin and fruit. 

7. The appearance of any gelatin jelly is very much changed if jelly is beaten just 
before it b^;ins to set. What is the effect? 

A good cake filling is made by beating a plain gelatin and then adding a fruit jam. 

8. A Very pretty garnish effect for puddings, etc., is obtained by forcing any very stiff 
jelly through a potato ricer; this applies to both the following types of jellies: 

SWBBT SAVORY 

Gelatin jellies (such as coffee or apple) Meat jellies 

Fruit, or pectin, jellies (such as currant) Aspic jellies 

Cornstarch jellies Mint jellies 

9. In sdiool it is a matter of economy to prepare gelatin dishes in cold weather, since 
then, as a rule, no ice is required. 

SIMPLE "VEGSTABLE-GELATIN'' JELUBS 
{Not made on a milk basis) 

Lemon Jelly 

Ingredients: (dor? servings) 

1 1. H box m c, or 6 tb.) vegetable gelatin 

2 tb. Lukewarm water to cover gelatin well (about 2 c. water) 

4 tb. 1 c. boiling water 

IJi tb. IH c. sugar 

1 1. H-H c. lemon juice 

1J4 tb. l}4 c. cold water 

Method: 

1. Soak the gelatin 15-20 min. in the lukewarm water. 

2. Drain off the water and discard it. 

3. Add 1 c. boiling water to the soaked gelatin, cover, and boil mixture &-10 
min., or until it is dear. (In the dass redpe boil down the mixture to just 1 tb.) 

4. Add the sugar, fruit juice, and cold water, and stir to dissolve the sugar. 
6. Strain liquid into molds wet with cold water, and let them stand at room 

temperature 5-16 min., or until jelly is set. 

6. Chill, turn dessert from molds, and serve at once; whipped cream may 
be added if desired. Beware of turning the dessert from the molds until just 
before it is served, since the jelly-molds are likely to crack on standing. 



DIET FOR CHILDREN 167 

A/oles: 

1. Agar-agar, so-called vegetable gelatin, has a great advantage over gelatin in that it 
quickly sets at room temperature — ^that is, in a warm place. Ice is not required. 

2. See Pood Economy , "Comparative Costs of Various Brands of Gelatin*" page 212. 





Orange Jelly 


Ingredients: 


UorS servings) 


It. 


H box vegetable gelatin 


2tb. 


Lukewarm water to cover gelatin 


4tb. 


1 c. boiling water 


iHth. 


H c. sugar "^ 


Ht. 


2 tb. lemon juice 


Itb. 


1 c. orange jtiice 


^tb. 


Ji c. cold water 


Method: 





Pollow the method given for lemon jelly. 

FRUIT- JUICE RECIPES: A SYNOPSIS 

The following recipes are useful as a means of giving necessary fruit juice to 
children (and adults) : 

Beverages (see Note 3) : 

Apple water 

Fruitade (sudi as lemon, lemon-grape, lime, or orange) 

Grape juice (by itself or with egg or soda-water) 

Raspberry vinegar 
Frozen dishes: 

Icecreams 

Ices 

Sherbets (note high food value of milk sherbets) 
Glac6 fruits 

Jellies, gelatin (orange, peach, prune, etcO 
Jellies, pectin (currant, grape, etc.) 
Puddings in which fruit juice is substituted for part or all of the milk: 

Irish-moss mold 

Starchy puddings (such as sago or tapioca, cornstarch, and bread) 
Pudding sauces (see Note 4) : 

Fruit juice (by itself) 

Fruit juice thickened with cornstarch*, arrowroot, flour, or rice powder 

Fruit juice with sugar and whipped cream 

Fruit juice with sugar and white of egg beaten stiff 

Soft custard made with yolks of eggs and with orange juice in place of milk 
Soups (cherry, orange, etc.) 
Toasted cereal flakes, such as com (use pure or diluted fruit juice as a 

cream substitute) 
Toasts (prune, etc.) 
Whips (such as grape whip, or souffle) 



168 LESSONS IN COOKERY 

Noies: 

1. Foods producing an alkaline ash in the body are essential in the diet, and, strange 
as it may seem, fruit acids help to preserve the alkalinity of the blood; this is the chief 
reason for saying that fruit jmces possess great dietetic value. 

2. Many persons do not enjoy fruit as such, hence note the value of recipes involving 
the use of fruit juices. Desirable juices, sweetened or unsweetened, and used separately 
or in any combination, include the following: 

Apple (sweet cider) 

Blackberry 

Cherry • 

Currant 

Grape 

Grapefruit 

Orange 

Peach 

Plum 

Prune 

Raspberry 

Strawberry 
The juices of all fruits may be used either fresh or canned. (The juices of all fruits 
may be canned with or without the addition of sugar. See Food Economy, pages 22-23, for 
directions for canning grape and other fruit juices.) 

Lemon juice is very useful, but it is so acid that it cannot be used in the same propor- 
tions as other fruit juices. The use of a little lemon juice with any other fruit juice helps 
to develop the flavor of that juice. 

3. The juice (pure or diluted) of cherries, strawberries, pineapple, and many other fruits 
is useful in making fruit beverages. 

4. All but the first two items listed under pudding sauces also may be used by them- 
selves as desserts (not sauces). Various desserts over which to pour the fruit sauces 
include the following: 

Bananas, baked 

Cereal flakes 

Cornstarch mold 

Custard, baked 

Gelatin dishes (such as snow pudding) 

Irish-moss mold 

Jimket 

Rice, boiled 



SIMPLE CANDIES 

(Chiefly homemade) 

CLASSIFICATION 

J. Candies the chief ingredient of which is sugar or sirup: 
UnpuUed candies (imcrystallized) : 

Barley-sugar candies (including glac6 fruits and nuts) 

Candy brittle (such as peanut or almond) 

Butterscotch 

Marshmallows (a beaten candy, not a ptilled candy) 

Toffee 

Etc. 
UnpuUed candies (crystallized) : 

Rock candy (composed of large sugar crystals) 

TiiT f r Candy substitutes 

Maple sugar J -^ 

Pulled candies (imcrystallized) : 

Molasses candy 

Taffy (including Meltose taffy; see Note 5) 
Etc. 
II. Candies (uncrystcUlized) the chief ingredient of which is not sugar or sirup: 

Fruit candies: 

Stuffed dried fruits 

Fruit-nut paste 

Fruit paste and fruit leather 
Marzipan (see page 170, Note 9) 

Chocolate, sweet, such as milk; a candy substitute (see Note 1) 
Etc. 

NoUs: 

1. Simple homemade candies are the best forms of candy for young children; fondant 
and derivatives are not recommended. Any candies made very rich with nuts, flavorings, 
etc., are not good for young children. Chocolate is too stimulating for nervous or very 
young children. (For mention of a non-stimulating chocolate, see page 94, Note 3.) 
Candies made from browned, or caramelized, sugar do not ferment so easily as other 
candies and hence on the whole are safer candies for children; note recipe for candy brittle. 

2. There is usually greater temptation to eat an excess of expensive commercial candies 
than of simple homemade ones. 

3. The chief dangers in allowing children to spend their pennies for cheap candy lie 
in the following: 

Harmful colorings and flavorings 

Disease germs, and other forms of dirt from display counters 

169 



160 LESSONS IN COOKERY 

One authority asserts that it is the flavorings and dyes which are harmful to children 
rather than the sugar. 

4. In some cases the following candies may be more or less laxative in their action: 

Fruit-nut paste Peanut brittle 

Molasses candy Pop-corn balls 

5. Pop-corn balls are a derivative of taffy. 

6. A small quantity of pure candy is a good addition to a lunch box. 

SUGAR AIVD SIRUP CANDIES 
Barley Sugar 



Ingredients: 

6tb. 
3tb. 

H2t. 

3d. 



2 c. sugar 

1 c. water 

}4 1. cream of tartar 

Few drops of flavoring (such as lemon extract) 



Method: 

1. Mix the first three ingredients and stir them until the sugar is dissolved. 

2. Boil the solution without stirring until the sirup is light yellow in color, 
300^-310^ P., or 149^-154.5^ C. If desired, wash the sides of the pan during 
the boiling process, as in making fondant, 

3. Add flavoring. Add coloring material if desired. 

Notes: 

1. The solution begins to turn light yellow at 300*^-302*^ F., or 149**-150*' C. 

2. U^ this barley-sugar sirup in various ways; for example, each of the pupils may be 
assigned one of the following problems : 

a. Plain drop or pour candies: 

Drops (such as lemon, lime, or horehound) 

Rounds (pour a thin layer of sirup into oiled muffin tins; cool, and turn out) 
Squares (pour a thin layer of sirup into an oiled pan; cool, and mark in 
\'. : . squares) 

Sticks, strip or cylindrical (such as stick candy) 
"All-day suckers" (on skewers) 
. As a rule all horehound candies and their derivatives are composed of barley 
, ' sugar. ' 

b. Glac^ fruits and nuts 

c. Spun sugar 



Glace Fruits and Nuts 
Method: 

1. Prepare any of the following ingredients: 
i- ^ n. Nut meats (whole) : 

Almonds (not blanched, as a rule) Filberts 

Bra2sil nuts Pecans 

Chestnuts (boiled and peeled) Walnuts 



DIET FOR CHILDREN 161 

b. Fruits (whole, sliced, or cut in small pieces) : 
Candied fruit (cherries, pineapple, etc) 
Canned fruit (such as pineapple) 
Dried fruit (see Notes 5 and 6) : 

Dates, figs, or prunes (whole or cut in small pieces) 

Raisins (seeded) 
Fresh fruit: 

Apples, whole, on skewers (see page 162) 

Cherries 

Grapes, white (such as Malaga) 

Orange or grapefruit (in sections) 

Pineapple (in cubes) 

Strawberries (whole) 

Fresh, canned, or stewed fruit should be dried thoroughly on the outside. 
Beware of breaking the skins of fresh strawberries, orange sections, etc. 
Sometimes it is well not to remove the stems from fresh cherries, strawberries, 
and grapes. 

2. Cook the barley-sugar recipe (page 160) to 310*" P., or 154.5'' C, or the 
very first point at which a brittle thread forms. (Sirup ** spins" well at this 
point; see use in sptm sugar, as described in any standard cookbook.) 

3. Remove saucepan from the fire at once and place it in a basin of boiling 
water. 

4. Working very quickly, and holding the foods by means of any of the follow- 
ing, dip in the nuts and fruits piece by piece: 

Hat pin (new) or straight wire 

Pork 

Kjiitting needle 

Candy-dipper 

A wire bent in spoon shape 

Stems of cherries, grapes, and strawberries 

6. Drain pieces well, and place them upon a lightly oiled platter or tin plate. 
6. Keep them in a cool, not a cold place; the candies become cloudy if kept 
in a cold place. (Why?) 

Notes: 

1. Glac^ fruits are suggested as a means of supplying acid fruits to children who do 
not like fruit as such. Certain glac6 nuts, such as Brazil nuts, are too rich for young chil- 
dren. 

2. Prepare glac6 candies in dry clear weather, since they are easily affected by the 
atmosphere. Do not attempt to keep them longer than 2-3 days, at the most; white 
grapes, oranges, and strawberries should be served within 2-3 hr. after being glac^d. 

3. If the sirup hardens, soften it by reheating. 

4. If desired, tint the sirup (pink or green, for instance). 

5. Soak (and sometimes stew) raisins, pnmes, and figs in water until they are plump, 
then dry and dip them in the glac^ sirup. 

11 



162 



LESSONS IN COOKERY 



6. A date or fig is pretty stuffed with one-fourth of an English walnut; stuff a prune 
with half a nut. Leave each of the three fruits partly open, so that the nut meat is visible. 

7. Note the following specific recipe for glac6 apples; glac6 pears and other fruits may 
be prepared in a similar way. 

Apple Taffies 



Ingredients: 




1 very small 


6 pretty medium-sized apples on skewers 


apple 






Taffy (see Note 3): 


3tb. 


1 c. brown sugar 


2tb. 


1 c. corn sirup/(such as white or brown Karo) 


Ht. 


1 tb. vinegar 


Ht. 


1 1. butter or a substitute 



Method: 

1. Boil the first three taffy ingredients together to the brittle stage in cold 
water (do. not stir after sugar is dissolved), then add the fat. 

2. Quickly dip each apple in the hot taffy, then revolve apple in the air for a 
few seconds until the covering of taffy is smooth and of even thickness. 

3. Place apples on an unbuttered tin plate, and let stand until brittle. 

Noies: 

1. Apple tafl&es are an economical, wholesome candy, and easily prepared; children 
enjoy them. (Name other economical glac6 products.) 

2. Wooden skewers may be secured of a butcher. However, forks serve very well 
as skewers for use in class. 

3. So long as taffy for apples is boiled to the brittle stage (when tested in cold 
water), one or more of the following changes may be made in the given recipe: 

a. Substitute white, maple, or other sugar for the brown sugar. 

b. Substitute any other sirup (such as molasses, honey, or sorghum) for the com 
sirup. 

c. Vary the proportions of sugar and sirup as desired. 

d. Omit the fat. 

e. Cook chocolate in the taffy mixture, omitting the vinegar. 



Ingredients: 

4-6 tb. 

dash 

2tb. 



Candy Brittle 

2 c. granulated sugar 
Salt 

1 c. of the following, used singly or in any combination: 
Nut meats, chopped or whole, such as: 
Almonds (preferably blanched) 
Peanuts (remove red skins) 
Pecans 
Puffed wheat or rice (heated in oven until crisp) 
Shredded coconut 
Etc. 



DIET FOR CHILDREN 163 

Method: 

1. Place sugar in a steel saut^ing pan or a granite pan and stir it constantly 
over a medium-sized flame until sugar is melted into a clear, light brown sirup, 
or caramel. (If a thermometer is available, note the high temperature of the sirup.) 

2. Remove sirup from the fire at once, stir in the other ingredients, and pour 
mixture upon an unbuttered tin. (If preferred, place the salt and nuts or other 
solid ingredients in a tin, and pour the sirup over them.) 

3. Let candy stand until it is perfectly cold, then break it into pieces. If 
desired, mark the candy in squares just before it hardens. 

Noles: 

1. If preferred, mix J^ c. water with the sugar (2 c.) before it is placed over the fire. 
(It is easier to prepare brittle in this way, but the candy is somewhat tough in texture.) 

, 2. Furfural,* a harmful substance, is formed during the caramelization of sugar. Note 
the following points regarding candy brittle: 

a. Cane-sugar brittle contains more furfural than brittle made from glucose. 

b. In the case of brittle prepared from part or all cane sugar, a dark brittle con- 
tains more furfural than light-colored brittle. (To obtain the light-colored 
candy, melt the sugar at a low temperature.) 

3, Pupil to secure recipes for brittle prepared from various sirups, such as com or 
maple sirup or honey. 



Ingredients: 

2tb. 
2tb. 



Butterscotch 

1 c. com sirup 

1 c. brown sugar 

J^-J^ c. butter or a substitute (such as com oil) 



Method: 

1. Boil a mixture of the three ingredients tmtil a small quantity for testing 
purposes will crack in cold water. 

2. Pour sirup into a buttered tin, and mark it in squares when it is almost 
hard. Drop the hot sirup in the form of patties, if preferred. 

Note: 

Chopped nuts may be stirred into the candy before it is poured into the tin. 

Meltose Taffy 

Ingredients: 

^ c. (8 oz.) Meltose 

2 tb. cream 

Ji t. butter 

1 1. vanilla or other extract 

1 See Plaisance and Monsch, ''A Suggestion in Regard to the Preparation and Use of Cara- 
mel," Journal of Home Economics, April, 1917. 



164 LESSONS IN COOKERY 

Method: 

1. Boil the first three ingredients together 15-20 min., or until the brittle stage 
in cold water is reached; stir constantly toward the last. 

2. Add the extract, and pour the candy into a greased tin. 

3. Cool the candy, then pull it the same as common taSy. 

Marahmallows 

Ingredients: {40-60 marshmaUcws) 

It. 3 tb. granulated gelatin (Knox or any other brand) 

2 tb. 7 tb. cold water 

5tb.+lt. 2 c. granulated sugar (see Note 4) 

1 tb. +1 1. 8 tb. hot water 

6 d. It. flavoring extract (such as peppermint, wintergreen, or almond; or 

vanilla and lemon, half and half) 

Method: 

1. Soak the gelatin 3-5 niin. in the cold water. ^ 

2. Boil the sugar and hot water to the first "hairing" stage, that is, tmtil a 
silken hair %' long can be pulled from the end of spoon by means of the finger 
tip; do not wait for the hair to drop of itself. 

3. Add hot sirup to soaked gelatin, and stir to dissolve the gelatin. 

4. Beat the mixture vigorously for 20 min. (using a wire or Dover egg-beater 
at first, later a spoon), then flavor it. At the last, the mixture should appear 
like cake batter or the heavier of boiled frostings, and should be beaten and 
stretched up to the setting time (namely, the time when mixture drops, not flows). 
The longer the mixture is beaten, the whiter and lighter with air it is made. 

6. Cover bottom of an oblong cake tin with Ht" sifted powdered sugar. 

6. Pour sirup into the cake tin and sprinkle it with a Ke*' layer of sifted pow- 
dered sugar. 

7. Chill candy tmtil it is firm, then turn it out on a board and cut it with a 
sharp paring knife into perfect I*' cubes. 

Miles; 

1. Marshmallows are a cheap candy and bulky. They are made by beating air and 
water-soaked gelatin into hot sugar sirup. {Experiment: In making a large quantity of 
candy, beat it by means of a cake-mixer.) 

2. Use non-addulated gelatin in this recipe, not the acidulated, since the latter results 
in candy that is too strongly flavored, even when no extract is added. 

3. Sugar for covering marshmallows should be treated as follows 

a. Rolled until velvety and fine, then sifted. 

h. Placed in cake tin before the sugar sirup is put on the fire. 

4. If desired, substitute com sirup (in like quantity) for part or all of the sugar in the 
given marshmallow recipe; boil the candy to the same hairing stage. (For temperature 
suggestions on the use of part or all glucose in candies in general, see table quoted from 
Amy Daniels by Stewart, Diet f&r Adults, pages 99-100.) 



DIET FOR CHILDREN 165 

Possible additions to the given recipe for maxshmallows include: 

a. Chocolate (beat 4 tb. melted bitter chocolate into the large recipe just before 
it is poured into the cake tin; use 1 t. melted chocolate in the dass recipe) 

b. Nuts (beat these into the candy just before it is molded) 

c. Coloring pastes (such as dainty pink or green) 

If desired, mold the candy in layers or in marble effect, using white, chocolate, 

pink, and other colors. 

After-dinner mints may be made in either of the following ways: 

(1) Prepare small marshmaUows, light green in color and flavored with 
mint. 

(2) Prepare small white marshmaUows, flavored with mint, and dip them 
into light green fondant. 

5. MarshmaUows may be dipped in sweet chocolate, melted and cooled. Beware of 
the use of bitter chocolate or of any sweet chocolate other than that made for the confec- 
tioner for dipping purposes. 

6. The given recipe (marshmaUow mixtiu^, or paste) may be used in any of the foUow- 
ing ways: 

a. Candy (toasted marshmaUows are espedaUy good) 

b. Addition to fruit salad (cut marshmaUows in small cubes) 

c. Garnish for a cracker (place a marshmaUow on a cracker, brown it in the oven, 
then add a nut meat) 

d. Garnish for cocoa, in place of whipped cream (add to cocoa either a matsh- 
maUow or a Httle of the soft paste) 

e. Garnish for ice cream (pour marshmaUow paste as a sauce over ice cream) 

/. Cake filling or frosting (cheap, and much used by bakers) is made in either of 
the foUowing ways: 

(1) Melt marshmaUows in a double boiler, adding a little water, if neces- 
sary, then add this paste to boiled frosting and beat well. 

(2) Melt marshmaUows in the hot sirup as completed for boiled frosting, 
then add this sirup to the beaten white of egg and whip hard. Add 
nuts, if desired. 

MarshmaUow pudding is similar to the recipe for marshmaUows. Snow pudding is also 
somewhat related. 

7. Pupil to observe the foUowing directions in work with the class recipe: 

a. Bring a candy box from home. 

b. In case 90 min. only are aUowed for the lesson, pupil is to work very busily. 

c. Use great care in measuring all ingredients (take full measurements of water, 
dipping them from a bowl rather than measuring them from a faucet). 

d. Aim to make tender candy. (If the lesson period is short and there is no 
objection to candy which is somewhat tough, use 1^1 J^ tb. only of cold water.) 

e. BoU the sirup untU a hair Ji' long (but no longer) can be formed. Pupil is 
likely to cook the sirup too long. 

/. AUow 20 min. for the beating of mixture. (The candy should thicken very 
graduaUy; it wiU not be white and fluffy if it stiffens before the end of a 



166 



LESSONS IN COOKERY 



20-min. period of beating.) Use a Dover beater, or perhaps a wire beater, 
until mixttire is very thick, then use a wooden spoon and long strokes. 
Note the following emergency cases: 

(1) If candy sets before it is very white, set the bowl in hot water just 
long enough to melt the candy, then beat again. 

(2) If candy does not stiffen in 20 min., heat it 2-5 min. over hot water, 
then beat again. 

g. Very quickly add the flavoring and coloring and pour the candy into a bread 
tin 5' X2J^*' (speed and care are essential toward the last of the 20-min. beating 
period, else the candy is likely to lump). The candy will harden without 
ice on a cool day, but ice hastens the setting process. 

8. The pupil may, for purposes of economy, make only one-half the class recipe; but 
the class recipe as written is the more satisfactory. 

FRUIT AND NUT CANDIES 

Fruit candies have a great advantage over sugar candies in that they contain 
valuable mineral salts. 





Fruit-Nut Paste 




(Sugarless sweets) 


Ingredients: 




Idate 


1 c. dates, stoned 


It. 


1 c. of some other dried fruit, such as: 




Apricots 


. \j 


Figs 




Prunes, stoned 




Raisins, seeded 


It. 


1 c. chopped nut meats, such as: 




Almonds, blanched 




Brazil nuts 




English walnuts 




Pecans 




Pine nuts 


dash 


Pinch of salt 


to cover 


Coating material for candies (see step 5) 



Method: 

1. If the fruit is very dry, make it soft and pliable by submitting it to one or 
both of the following steps (dates, as a rule, require neither soaking nor cooking) : 

a. Soak the fruit until it is plump. 

b. Steam or stew the fruit until it is tender and plump (occasionally it 
is wqU to stew the fruit to a stiflf, dry pulp or marmalade). 

2. Drain the fruit, and dry its surface very thoroughly with a soft cloth. 

3. Thoroughly mix the first fotir ingredients of the recipe, and grind them in 
a food-grinder to a velvety paste. 



DIET FOR CHILDREN 167 

4. Shape this stiff paste into any of the following forms: 

Balls, j/^" in diameter 

Cubes, or caramels (cut from paste rolled to a sheet of ^^ thickness) 

Cylinders (" sausages ")i small 

Cylinders, large (sliced later) 

Strips 
6. Roll the candies in any of the following materials, and place them on paraf- 
fin paper: 

Cereal flakes, coarsely ground (such as com flakes) 

Chocolate (melted in a double boiler; see Note 4) 

Coconut, finely shredded or chopped (it is often desirable to brown dried coconut 
in an oven) 

Fondant of any tint, melted in a double boiler (bonbons result) 

Macaroons, ground 

Sugar, granulated (red, white, blue, etc.) 

Sugar, powdered 

6. If desired, wrap each candy in paraffin paper. 

7. Serve the candies at once, or pack them in tin boxes and store them in a 
cool place. All the candies keep well. Caramels pack especially well. 

Notes: 

1. If preferred, pack the paste in glass jars, and make it into candies just before the 
time for serving them. 

2. The fruit and nuts for use in the class recipe should be measured after they are ground. 
Caution: Grind the materials, do not chop them; it is tedious to chop them to a paste, 

and is often impossible. 

3. Fruit-nut paste prepared from the following ingredients is especially rich in iron: 

1 c. figs (pulled) or prunes 

1 c. almonds, blanched (sudi as Jordan) 

4. Use coating chocolate, that is, a special sweetened chocolate used by confectioners 
for dipping piuposes. Avoid bitter chocolate or common sweet chocolate. After dipping 
candies, let them stand until the chocolate is hard, then wrap them in paper. 

5. Possible additions to fruit-nut paste include the following: 

Cereal flakes, toasted (such as com, wheat, or rice flakes) 

Com sirup 

Honey 

Lemon juice 

Senna leaves, ground to a coarse powder (see Note 6) 
Cereal flakes are especially desirable if, by chance, the fruit-nut mixture is too soft to 
handle; add the flakes and knead mixture to make a stiff dough. (Use 1 tb. flakes in the 
class recipe.) 

6. As a rule, all dried-fruit candies (such as stuffed fruits and fruit-nut paste) are laxative 
in effect, but those containing senna leaves are especially laxative. Two pieces of candy 
made from the following mixture may be eaten each night for their laxative effect: 

^ lb. each of dates, figs, prunes, and raisins 
14 lb. senna leaves 

7. Any fruit-nut candy mixture is excellent as a filling for children's sandwiches. 



168 LESSONS IN COOKERY 

Fruit Pasted 

Ingredients: 

1 lb. strained fruit pulp, secured from one or any cx)mbination of the following: 
Apples Gooseberries Quinces 

Apricots Guavas Raspberries 

Cherries Peaches Strawberries 

Currants Plums Etc. 

1 lb. powdered sugar (use only % lb. in the case of apples, guavas, or peaches) 
Optional ingredients to taste (such as coloring paste and chopped nuts, preserved 
citron, or candied orange peel) 

Method: 

1. Using a low flame, cook a mixture of the ptdp and sugar until almost dry. 

2. Add any of the optional ingredients desired. 

3. Spread the mixture in a J^' layer upon oiled platters, cover with cheese- 
cloth, and let dry 2-3 days in a breezy place. 

4. Cut paste in 1' squares, roll them in granulated sugar, let stand 2-3 days 
longer, then pack them in tin boxes, using heavy paraffin paper between layers. 

6. Serve the paste either as a confection or as a garnish for fruit relishes, cakes, 
sweet sandwiches, etc. 

NoUs: 

1. This recipe is practically the same as fruit butter, Food Economy, pages 32-33, except 
for slight differences in sugar, etc., and for the fact that fruit paste is drier than fruit butter. 

2. A fruit candy somewhat similar to fruit paste may be prepared as follows; 

a. Simmer the following ingredients together until a clear, thick paste results: 

1 c. raisins \ 

}^ c. figs > chopped 

J^ c. apricots I 

1 c. com sirup (such as Karo) 

b. Pour candy upon greased plates, let it stand until cold and firm, then cut it 
into cubes or strips. 

Fruit Leather 

Method: 

1. Mash any very ripe raw fruit (or a mixture of fruits) to a smooth pulp; 
for example: 

Berries (strawberries, etc.) Figs 

Cherries (stoned) Peaches, apricots, and blue plums (peeled and stoned) 

2. Spread pulp in a thin layer on lightly oiled platters, and dry it in a drier 
or by means of sunshine or an electric fan. 

3. Roll dried pulp on the order of a jelly roll, then cut roll in crosswise slices. 
* Adapted very largely from Ola Powell, Successful Canning and Preserving, pages 170-171. 



DIET FOR CHILDREN 169 

4. Pack the slices in glass jars, or in very tight boxes lined with paraffin paper. 

5. Use the leather in any of the following ways: 

Use it dry as a confection (see note). 

Use it dry, with cream cheese and nuts, as a dessert. 

Use water-soaked leather for pie filling or for jelly or sauce for shortcake. 
Nalt: 

If the leather is to be used as a confection, it is well to sprinkle the sheet with powdered 
sugar before it is rolled. 

Stuffed Dried Fruits 

Method: 

1. Soak one or more kinds of dried fruits — cherries, dates, figs (preferably 
pulled), or prunes — in water until semi-plump, then dry surface of the fruits. 

2. Stone the cherries, dates, and prunes, and stuff them with chopped nuts. 

3. Roll the fruit in granulated or powdered sugar. 

Note: 

li dates are not to be used as candy, cream cheese may be mixed with the nuts; in this 
case do not roll dates in sugar. 

Candied Orange Straws 

Method: 

1. Wash oranges, and remove the rinds in quarters. 

2. Cover the rinds with cold water, and boil them 45 min., or tmtil they are 
very tender, changing the water two to four times during the boiling (disagreeable 
or harmful flavor is removed in this way). 

3. Drain the rinds, and scrape off part of the white lining by means of a spoon. 

4. Cut the rinds with scissors or a paring knife into straws or strips of regular 
shape and size or into irregular wormlike straws — preferably long, narrow ones. 

5. Boil the following ingredients together to make a sirup as thick as cream 
(the class recipe is sufficient for 2 h. tb. orange straws) : 

3 tb. 2 c. sugar 

2 tb. 1 c. water, hot or cold 

6. Add straws to sirup, and with constant stirring simmer them imtil ** trans- 
parent" and sirup is evaporated almost to dryness, or is in a sugared state. 

7. Drain the straws, roll them immediately in granulated sugar, and let them 
dry on parafiin paper before serving. , 

1. If preferred, remove part of white lining from uncooked rinds, cut rinds into straws, 
then boil them tender. 

2. Fresh or dried rinds of oranges, grapefruit, or other citrous fruit may be used in 
this recipe for candied fruit straws. 

3. The white lining of the rind of citrous fruits is not poisonous. Because of its pectin 
content it is useful in the preparation of marmalades, but since it lacks flavor, it is useless 
in the preparation of candied rinds except for its bulk. 

4. Fruit straws are an economical candy. 



170 LESSONS IN COOKERY 

Marzipan^ 

Ingredients: 

Almond paste, commercial (sold by confectioners) 
Flavorings to taste: 

Confectioners' XXXX sugar (use about % lb. sugar to 1 lb. average com- 
mercial almond paste) 
Rose water or orange-flower water (bought of druggist) 
Boiled water, cold or hot, enough to make a stiff dough that can be kneaded 

easily (see Note 1) 
Coloring paste (optional), such as pink, yellow, or green 

Method: 

1. Knead together on a marble slab or molding board all the ingredients 
(including coloring paste, if used) to make a very smooth dough. If necessary, 
sprinkle a little XXXX sugar on the slab or board to keep the dough from sticking. 

2. Mold the dough with the hands (or roll it out, and cut) into attractive 
forms, such as vegetable forms (beets, carrots, potatoes, etc.), fruit forms (apples, 
bananas, cherries, pears, strawberries, etc.), flower forms (roses, etc.), animal forms 
(turkeys, etc.), bread rolls (twists, etc.), balls, rings, stars, hearts, small cylindri- 
cal sticks (wrapped in tinfoil), large cylindrical sticks (sliced before serving). 

3. Decorate the forms in various ways; for example: 

Tint surface of forms with coloring pastes (use small brushes). 

Roll potato forms in a mixture of cocoa (or cinnamon) and powdered 
sugar. 

Attach artificial stems and leaves to certain of the forms (shredded coco- 
nut may be used as potato sprouts). 

Place small pieces of candied pineapple, etc., on top of candies. 

Notes: 

1. Any water added to commercial almond paste in the preparation of marzipan must 
be sterile (boiled), else the candies will mold. Unbeaten white of egg is occasionally added 
to almond paste in place of water, but the marzipan does not keep for any length of time. 
It is not alwa)rs necessary to add moistening material to commercial almond paste. 

2. As a rule, no heat is applied during the process of making marzipan from commercial 
almond paste. However, with some few candy forms, partictdarly bread rolls, it is desirable 
to hold the candies (placed on a paper sprinkled with a little granulated sugar) next the 
open flame of a grill for a few seconds only, or just long enough to brown them. In some 
cases a baking oven, if extremely hot, may be substituted for the grill. If marzipan is 
baked too long it becomes spongy and is similar to macaroons. 

3. A marble slab is preferable to a molding board in the preparation of marzipan. 
Cleanliness of the slab, hands, etc., is essential. 

4. Both almond paste and marzipan paste (flavored, but not molded candy) will keep 
for months if stored in air-tight tin boxes. 

5. Marzipan is popular at Christmas time. It makes a good handwork candy lesson. 

6. Almonds are very rich in iron, one of the essentials for growth in children. 

7. A candy somewhat similar to marzipan is made by the substitution of finely ground 
coconut for the almond paste of marzipan. 

1 Many of the points in this recipe are by courtesy of L. G. Kunze, Chicago. 



MEAT AND FISH FOR PARTIES 

Optional lessons 

Fillet of Beef 

Method: 

1. Remove the fat and membrane from a whole tenderloin musde of beef 
(3-6 lb.) ; the butcher will usually perform this process on request. 

2. Lard the muscle with strips of fat salt pork cut the long way of the rind 
and soaked in ice water. (See Note 2 for directions for applying the lardoons.) 

3. Roast the meat, allowing, on an average, 1 J^ hr. (Follow " General Method 
for Oven-roasted Meat," Diet for Adults, pages 26-28.) If a tenderloin of extra 
good flavor is desired, roast it in a bed of vegetables. 

4. Prepare a brown gravy from the drippings in the pan. 
6. Garnish the roast with any of the following: 

a. Mashed potato pressed through a pastry bag (potato roses, etc., as described 
on page 84, are especially desirable) 

b. Vegetables cut in any of the following forms and then boiled (these may be 
fried for use in adults' diet) : 

Balls (made with a French cutter) 

Cups (made by scooping vegetables so that they will stand erect, and then 

filling with other vegetables) 
Ciu-ls (made with twirlers; see Note 1) 
Lattices 
Shoestrings 
Stamps 

A^<rfes.- 

1. As a rule, a whole potato or other vegetable must be used for every vegetable curl. 
Cut open the vegetable (its entire length) before removing the curl. 

2. (This note applies to all roasted and braised meats.) If meat is lean and dry (beef 
fillet is such a meat), add to it fat pork, either fresh or salted, cut in ^'^ strips, or lardoons. 
The lardoons may be applied in any of the following ways: 

a. Lay them on top of the meat. 
6. Tie them on top of the meat. 

c. Sew them into the top surface of meat by means of a larding needle, taking 
one stitch with each lardoon; if a needle is not available, make holes in the 
meat with a sharp knife and push the lardoons through. 

Planked Beefsteak 
Method: 

1. Clean a sirloin steak 2*^ thick by means of a damp doth. 

2. Pan-broil meat 10 min. 

171 



172 LESSONS IN COOKERY 

3. Slightly butter a plank, then, using a pastry bag, place a border of mashed 
potatoes around the edge. 

4. At intervals on top of border place eight to ten nests of mashed potatoes. 
6. Place steak in center of plank, and bake the whole tmtil the steak is done 

and the potatoes are brown. 

6. Fill potato nests with hot seasoned peas, and place slices of broiled toma- 
toes at even intervals about the steak. 

CroWn of Lamb 

Method: 

1. Secure 6-8 prime chops from either side of a lamb or a yearling mutton; 
keep the ribs attached to one another in one long strip. 

2. French the chops, making the length uniform. 

3. Draw the chops backward in such a way as to form a circle, then tie and 
skewer them into shape. 

4. Roast chops the same as any other meat (see Diet for Adults ^ pages 26-28), 
allowing 1M~1H ^« for roasting. Protect ends of bones by wrapping them in 
flour paste or cheesecloth, or covering them with cubes of fat salt pork. 

6. Remove the roast to a hot platter, and fill center of roast with mashed 
potatoes, carrots, cress, mint, or other food material. 

6, Garnish the roast with radishes, parsley, and white paper frills for the 
tips of bones. 

Notes: 

1. The scraped part of bones should be up in pan and also on the platter. 

2. For suggestions for use in adults' diet, see Appendix G, page 214, Note 4. 

Creamed Oysters in Toast Boxes 



Ingredients: 




2 oysters 


1 c. oysters 




1 c. thick white sauce (see Note 1) 


3tb. 


1 c. milk or cream 


It. 


3 tb. flour 


It. 


2 tb. butter 


dash 


Salt 


dash 


Paprika 


Ibox 


Toast boxes 



Method: 

1. Add the oysters to the white sauce, and heat the mixture in a double boiler 
imtil the gills of the oysters curl. 

2. Pour mixture into toast boxes and garnish them with paprika and parsley. 

Notes: 

1. Cook the white sauce very thoroughly, using the dietetic method (see Food Econ- 
omy, pages 70-71). 

2. See Food Economy, pages 64-65, for use of toast boxes with protein foods in 
general. 



APPENDIX 



APPENDIX 

PART A. PENNY AND OTHER LUNCHROOMS FOR 
SCHOOL CHILDREN 

Introductory Notes 

1. School authorities the worid over are coming to realize that hungry children are 
not in a condition to derive much benefit from their school work; hence we are learning 
the value of school lunchrooms, the aim of which is to furnish an inexpensive means of 
suppljring good, wholesome food for those who need it. It is only by keeping the body 
properly nourished that we can possibly hope to gain the maximum restdts with the young, 
especially those who are more or less physically and mentally defective. "It seems fair 
to place the probable number of seriously underfed school children in New York and other 
American cities at 10 per cent of the school population."* 

The lunchrooms (very often the penny type) are a vital factor in open-air schools. 
Open-air schools are desirable for all children, sick or well, but are especially necessary for 
children suffering from diseases which involve malnutrition; for example, malnutrition 
proper, anaemia, nervousness, and tuberculosis. 

2. The following-named publications give valuable information on penny and other 
school lunchrooms: 

Committee on School Lunches of the Home and School League, Philadelphia, 

Annual Reports. 
Bryant, Louise S., School Feeding: Its History and Practice at Home and Abroad. 
Rose, Mary Swartz, Feeding the Family, pages 153-157. 
Himt, Caroline L., "School Lunches," Farmers* Bulletin 712, U.S. Department 

of Agriculture. 
Wile, Ira S., "School Ltmch Progress in New York," Journal of Home Economics^ 

December, 1914. 
Small, Mary E. L., "Elementary School Lunches under School Department 

Direction, Buffalo, N.Y.," Journal of Home Economics, December, 1912. 
Bailey, Pearl L., Domestic Science, Principles and Application. 

3. An exercise for the pupil follows these introductory notes. The foods listed in the 
left-hand column of the table are grouped as follows: 

I. Foods valued chiefly for protein content 

II. Foods valued chiefly for starch, sugar, or fat (that is, energy-yielding foods) 
III. So-called complete foods, that is, dishes containing a fair balance of protein, 
carbohydrates, and fats (For general suggestions and for recipes for most 
of the dishes listed, see Food Economy, pages 43-104, 113-116, 129, Note 2.) 
The asterisk denotes those dishes which, in normal times, are among those likely to 
prove desirable, from standpoints of cost and food value, for the penny lunchrooms pro- 
vided for underfed and other children. 

* Louise S. Bryant, School Feeding: Its History and Practice at Home and Abroad (1914 ed.)j 
page 204. 

175 



176 



LESSONS IN COOKERY 



Let the pupil supply data for the right-hand columns of table, relying upon the experi- 
ence of the lunchroom manager, discussion of market prices, and actual cooking tests (in 
some cases, the cooking classes may prepare certain foods for the lunchroom). 

Pupil, as desired, to make additions to, or deductions from, the list; for example, remove 
all foods which may be indigestible or are in any way extravagant as to money or time. 

Let the pupil specify in some way which dishes are particularly suitable for children 
of different ages, such as the high-school age. 

COMPARATIVE PRICES OF FOODS FOR LUNCHROOMS FOR 
SCHOOL CHILDREN 



Poods 



I. PROTEIN FOODS 

♦Cheese, cottage 

♦Cocoa 

♦Custard, baked 

♦Custard ice cream 

♦Custard pudding, baked, such as: 

Bread pudding 

Rice pudding 

Indian pudding 

♦Custard, soft (floating island, 

etc.) 

Hamburg steak 

♦Legumes, dried, boiled, or baked 

(beans, peas, etc.) 

Meat, sliced (hot or cold) 

♦Milk 

♦Milk, malted (plain and its de- 
rivatives) 

Nuts (filberts, English walnuts, 

etc.) 

♦Soups, cream, such as: 

Asparagus 

Cabbage 

Celery 

Potato 

Spinach 

Tomato 

♦Soups, dried-legimie, such as: 

Bean, pea, or lentil 

Peanut butter 



Quantity in 

AN Ordinary 

Serving 



$0.01 (or 
Less) per 
Serving 



$0.02 per 
Serving 



$0.03 PER 

Serving 



$0.05 (OR 

More) per 

Serving 



DIET FOR CHILDREN 



177 



COMPARATIVE PPICES OF FOODS FOR LUNCHROOMS FOR 
SCHOOL CBILDB(R}Si— Continued 



Foods 


Quantity in 

AN Ordinary 

Serving 


10.01 (OR 

Less) per 
Serving 


10.02 PER 

Serving 


$0.03 PER 

Serving 


$0.05 (OR 

More) per 

Serving 


II. CARBOHYDRATE AND FATTY FOODS 

*Breadstuff» (bread, toast, roUs, 
biscuits, or crackers) 












Cakes (ginger, sponge, cup, jelly 
roll, etc.) 


1 slice 










*Candies. simole. such as: 










Apple taffy 


1 










Chocolate, sweet 










Dried fruit, stuffed 












Fruit-nut paste 












Marshmallows 


\ 










Molasses kisses 










Charlotte russe 










*Cookies (molasses, etc.) 


lor 2 










♦Fruits, cooked, such as: 
Apple or pear, baked 










Apple or pear, stewed 












Fruit butter (apple, etc.) 












Prunes or raisins, stewed 












♦Fruits, raw, such as: 
Apple 


1 
1 
6 
3 

1 bunch 

1 

12 

1 










Banana 










Dates 










Figs 










Grapes 










Orange 










Raisins 










Pop-corn ball 










♦Rice, macaroni, or noodles with 
tomato sauce 










Salad, such as: 

"Ranana 












Cabbage 












Potato 












Tomato 












♦Sandwiches, sweet Qam, jelly, fig, 
date, orune. etc.) 












♦Vegetables, such as: 
Carrots 












Potato (white or sweet), baked 
or mashed 


1 baked 





















12 



178 



LESSONS IN COOKERY 



comparahvb prices of foods for lunchrooms for 

SCHOOL CBILDRBJX— 'Continued 



III. COMPLETE DISHES 

♦Bread and butter or gravy 

♦Whole milk and one of the follow- 
ing: 

Bread or toast 

Cereal, cooked (oatmeal, rice, 

etc.) 

Cereal, ready-to-eat (com flakes, 
shredded wheat biscuits, etc.) 

Crackers 

♦Sweet chocolate and crackers 

(such as graham) 

Stuffed juicy vegetables (tomato, 

etc.) 

Stuffed starchy vegetables 
(mashed-potato cups, etc.). 

♦Creamed protein foods on toast 

(dried beef, etc.) 

Complete . escalloped dishes 

(macaroni and cheese, etc.) . . 

Complete-dish balls, saut6ed — 

Complete-dish croquettes 

Complete-dish hashes 

Complete-dish loaves 

Complete-dish pies 

Complete-dish rice-balls (see 

page 148, Note 2) 

Complete-dish salads (see Diet 

for Adults, pages 177-179) . 
♦Complete-dish sandwiches, hot 
♦Complete-dish sandwiches, cold 
♦Complete-dish stews: 
Fish (whitefish, dam, oyster, 

etc.) 

Meat (beef stew with dumplings 

or rice, etc.) 

Dried-legume 

Complete-dish turnovers (from 
biscuit dough) 



DIET FOR CHILDREN 



179 



Notes: 

1. A roll is often served with (that is, included in the order for) each of the following: 

Beans, baked 

Complete dish, such as hash 

Creamed dish, such as: 

Creamed protein food on toast 

Creamed vegetable 

Rice, macaroni, or noodles, with tomato sauce 
Custard pudding (rice, etc.) 
Milk 
Salad 

Soup (such as broth or cream soupj 
Stew 

Vegetable 
Any of the following breadstuffs are possible substitutes for toast or bread in the 
preparation of either creamed protein foods on toast or of hot and cold sandwiches: 
Biscuits 

Crackers (such as graham) 
Rolls 
Cones are often sold as containers for foods, such as: 
Beans, baked 
Ice cream 

Potato, sweet, mashed 
Pudding 

2. Note absence of tea, coffee, and pies from the list of foods given in the table. 
Recipes containing raw vegetables, such as cabbage salad, should not be offered to 

children under 10 years of age. 

3. Pupils often give excellent service at lunchroom counters. It is sometimes feasible 
for the cooking classes to provide certain foods for selling in lunchrooms. 

4. In many schools, high schools in particular, the lunch periods are too short to per- 
mit proper eating. A half -hour lunch period does not allow for the proper mastication of 
foods or for the relaxation desirable from the standpoint of digestion. 

5. Let the pupil plan well-balanced 15-cent menus from the foods listed in the table, 
pages 176 to 178. Note the following tabulation, which is quoted from Louise S. Bryant, 
School Feeding, page 249: 

Comparative Food Value of Lunches Purchased by Children 





Frank- 
furters 
AND Roll 


Banana 

AND 

Licorice 


Swiss Cheese 
AND Bread 


Frosted 
Cakbs 


Protein 


5 

6 

9 

20 

110 


0.6 

24.4 

25.0 

108.0 


12 

7 

46 

65 

295 


8 


Fat 


19 


Carbohydrates 


76 


Total grams. . . '. 


103 


Total calories 


507 






Cost 


$0.01 


$0.01 


$0.02 


$0.03 







180 



LESSONS IN COOKERY 



The following graphic representation of the relative value of school and street Itmches 
is taken from the 1913 report of the Committee on School Limches of the Home and School 
League of Philadelphia: 

Relative Food Value of School and Street Lunches 



Penn3^ bundles 

bought 

at 

School 



Benny Lunches 

bought 



on 



1(4 



Bean Soup 
Rice l\idding 
Cocoa 
Milk 

Royal Lunch 
Graham Qackers 
Spicc Wafers 
Dates 

Sweet Chocolate 
Slick Ganc^ 



Street 

Sausa^e&Roll 
Pretzel 
6nnamon 5un 
Ice Cake 

ManshmalloMrCake 
R>pcorn Roll 
Candy Eg^ 
Licorice 
OiocolateRppermint 
Candy Roll 



"The left-hand column represents the food value of a penny portion bought at school 
when a charge of one-quarter of a cent is made for service. The right-hand column shows 
the food value of the amount purchased for a cent from the street vendor, who makes all 
he can on the deal. 

"At school the amotmt of food value given for one cent is alwajrs as high as possible. 
In the street the child can buy something which is not food at all, like licorice." 

6. At one time the following weekly menu was typical of the dishes served in a certain 
penny limchroom. Pupil to discuss the prices to-day of the various dishes: 



Monday 
Baked beans 
Milk 
Crackers 
Fruit 
Sweet chocolate 



Tuesday 
Rice pudding 
Milk 
Crackers 
Fruit 
Ice cream 
Chocolate 



Wednesday 
Vegetable soup 
Milk 
Crackers 
Fruit 

Sweet chocolate 
Cocoa 



Thursday 
Succotash 
Milk 
Crackers 
Fruit 
Ice cream 
Chocolate 



Friday 

Cream-of -tomato soup 

Milk 

Crackers 

Fruit 

Sweet chocolate' 



A roll was included in an order for baked beans, vegetable soup, cream-of-tomato soup, 
or succotash. 



DIET FOR CHILDREN 181 

In the high school the Itincheon may offer more variety, but the emphasis should still 
be on simple, nourishing foods. The daily list^ may well include: 

Soup (such as tomato, green-pea, split-pea, white-bean, and black-bean) 
Two or three hot dishes (such as spaghetti with tomato sauce, mashed potatoes 

with green peas, baked beans, com pudding, a stew, or hot roast-beef sandwich) 
Salads (such as potato, egg, fruit, or green-vegetable) 
Sandwiches (one or two varieties each day) 
Fruit (such as apples, bananas, and stewed fruits of various kinds) 
Milk and cocoa 
Plain cake or sweet wafers (offered only in combination with milk or other 

plain food) 
Ice cream« charlotte russe, simple baked pudding, sweet chocolate 



1 Adapted from Mary Swartz Rose, "Pood for School Boys and Girls," Technical Education 
Bulletin 28, Teachers Collie, Columbia University. < , 



PART B. BETWEEN-MEAL LUNCHES FOR NORMAL 

. CHILDREN 

Any one of the following foods (not more than one, as a rule) is often served as a between- 
meal lunch (at 10:00 a.m. or 4:00 p.m.) to a school child. The asterisk' denotes foods 
which are also permissible, as a nile, for a very young chil3, that is, a child just tinder 
school age (under 5 years) : 

Bread, stale (with or without butter) 
Broth, hot 

Buttermilk (very fresh) 
Cocoa 

*Crackers, Educator 
*Crackers, graham 
Egg lemonade (see Note 3) 
*Foods partially dextrinized, such as: 
Bread crumbs, toasted 
Bread crusts, dry 

Cereals, ready-to-eat (toasted corn flakes, etc ) 
Com, parched 
Pretzels 
Pulled bread 
Toast, dry (hot or cold) 
Zwieback 
Fruit, fresh, raw, and mild (apples, in particular) 
Fruit juice, mild (such as grape) 
Milk 

Milk and any of the following foods: 
Bread 

Cereal, cooked (such as cracked wheat) 
Crackers, hard (such as graham or Educator) 
Foods partially dextrinized (any of those b'sted above) 

Notes: 

1. Between-meal lunches are often a necessity in the home and school, especially with 
little children; they are often sold in the penny lunchrooms. A school child who has had 
breakfaist early is likely to become exhausted before time for the noon meal; this exhaus- 
tion may result in stupidity, restlessness, or irritability on the part of the child. A between- 
meal Itmch in this case is a necessity. 

Sometimes, in addition to the 10:00 a.m. and 4:00 p.m. lunches, a lunch during the 
night is advisable for a child under school age; in such a case those foods indicated by the 
asterisk in the foregoing list are usually the best foods to be given. 

182 



DIET FOR CHILDREN 183 

2. The best foods for between-meal lunches possess one or more of the following char- 
acteristics: they should be 

Hard (so as to promote mastication) 

Warm or hot 

Light, simple, and easily digested 

Not too tempting (that is, they should have little sweetness or other flavor) 

3. Note points in regard to between-meal lunches for every age of child: 

a. If given, they should be given regularly. 

b. They should be given only when the child regularly shows hunger between 
stated meals. (If a yotmg child is himgry enough in the night or at any other 
time to nibble at a dry crust, he will gain only benefit from thus eating 
between meals.) 

. The Itmches, especially those for a younger child, should be subject to a 
physician's approval. 
The younger the child, the more vital it is that foods served between meals should pos- 
sess one or more of the foregoing qualities; for example, note that the foods advocated for 
the child under school age are hard; and, too, partially dextrinized foods (being partially 
predigested) are very desirable. Fruit juices require no digestion. It is probable that 
no more easily digested food can be prepared than egg lemonade (see recipe. Diet for 
Invalids); sometimes it may even be given to a child under school age. 

4. The foods listed below should not be taken between meals by children (or adults). 
This is either because these foods require so much time for digestion that the stomach is 
not empty when regular meal time comes and so appetite for the right kinds of foods is lost, 
or because they quickly satisfy the appetite (as in the case of candy), thus robbing the 
body of the right kind of foods. 

Cake Nuts (peanuts, etc.) 

Candy Pie 

Jam or jelly sandwiches Pudding 

Meat (sandwiches, etc.) Etc. 

Sweet chocolate, light cream soups, and certain egg dishes (eggnogs, etc.) are occa- 
sionally allowable between meals. 

6. This outline does not advocate the bad habit of nibbling between meals. Between- 
meal Itmches are simply extra meals served at regular intervals during the day. 

6. In a general way this outline applies to between-meal lunches for adult invalids. 



PART C. DIGESTION! 

Let the pupil supply data for the following tables: 

Four Main ParU of the Digestive Tract 



Part of Tract 


Reaction 
(Acid or alkaline) 


Secretions 


Chief Enzyme Action 


Mouth 








Stomach 








Small intestine. . . . 








Large intestine .... 

















Digestive Juices 



Digestive 
Juice 


Organ Secreting 
THE Juice 


Reaction (Acid 

or Alkaline) 

OF Juice 


Enzymes 
Present 

/ 


Nutrients 

Chiefly Acted 

Upon by 

Enzymes 


Products of 
Enzyme Action 


Salivary 

Gastric 






















Pancreatic . . . 












Intestinal 























Carbohydrate-splitting Enzymes 



Digestive Organ 



STARCH 



Mouth . 



Stomach 

Small intestine 

SUGAR 

Mouth 



Stomach 

Small intestine 



Secretion 



Enzymes 



Products of Enzyme Action 



*A course in high-school physiology is a prerequisite for this work on digestion. 

184 



DIET FOR CHILDREN 
Fat-splitting Enzymes 



185 



Digestive Organ 


Secretion 


Enzymes 


Products of Enzyme Action 


Mouth 








Stomach 






• 


Small intestine. . . 



















Proteoljrtic Enzymes (Acting on Proteins) 


Digestive Organ 


Secretion 


Enzymes 


Products of Enzyme Action 


Mouth 








Stomach 








Small intestine . . . 

















Steps of Digestion Listed in Their Natural Sequence 

Data are supplied for the protein colimm; let the pupil supply the lists of steps in the 
digestion of fat, starch, and sugar. 



Protein 



Fat 



Starch 



Sugar 



1. 

2. 
3. 
4. 



Acid albumin . 

Proteose 

Peptone 



Absorption of Food Nutrients 



Nutrients 


Where Absorbed 


In What Form Absorbed 


If Stored, Where 


Protein 








Fat 








Carbohydrates. . . 








Water 








Mineral matter. . . 

















PART D. PERCENTAGE COMPOSITION DIAGRAMS 

OF FOODS 

Introductory Notes 

1. These diagrams (pages 187-199) are a pupil problem adapted from a series of colored 
charts, Composition of Food Materials ^ prepared by C. F. Langworthy, United States Depart- 
ment of Agriculture. 

2. References for use by the pupil: 

Langworthy, Composition of Food Materials j U.S. Dept. of Agri., Ofl&ce of Experi- 
ment Stations. 

Bulletin B8, "The Chemical Composition of American Food Materials," U.S. 
Dept. of Agri., Office of Experiment Stations. 

Locke, Food Values. 

3. Problem for the pupil: (1) Supply figures for the percentage coltunn accompanjdng 
each diagram; (2) designate on the diagram, in accordance with these figures, the percentage 
composition of each food, using either of the following schemes: 

a. Lines and dots in one or more colors of ink; for example: 

POTATO 




Carbohyniratea 



Water: 78.3 



b. Colored spaces arranged in the following sequence (place the space for water 
at the top of the diagram, as a rule) : 

White: Water 
Pink: Protein 
Yellow: Fat 
Blue: Carbohydrates 
Black: Ash 

Let the pupil describe her key (patterned after one of the above schemes) in the space 
below. Vary the color sghenj^ pf J 9^ desired, and use either crayons or water colors. 



186 



PERCENTAGE CCKPOSITION DIA(^^AM6 




Oat Breakfast Food 





venter 

Protein 

Fat 

Carbohyd. 

Ash 





7. 


\X&ter 

IVotein 

Fat 

Carbohyd. 

AsK 


i 1 1 1 1 
1 1 1 1 1 
1 1 .1 1 1 
1 1 1 1 1 




Ri 



ce 





V. 


U^aler 
Protein 
Fat 

Carbohyd 
Ash ^ 


1 ! 1 1 1 
! ! 1 1 1 



% 



Rj 



ye 





Jo 


NJ^ater 

FVoteln 

Fat 

Carbohyd. 

Aah 






M 



acaroni 





7. 


Water 
Protein 
Fat 

Carbohyd. 
Ash ^ 


1 1 1 1 1 

1 1 1 1 1 

1 1 1 1 
1 1 1 1 1 



187 



PERCENTAGE COMPOSmON DIAGRAMS 

"White Bread 





% 


Water 
FVotein 
Fat 

Carbdiyd. 
Ash ^ 






Whole AX^eat 





% 


Water 

R-otein 

Fat 

CarbohyA 

Ash 






Toasted Bread 





% 


Wkter 
Protein 
Fat 
Carboh/d. 

Ash"^ 







Corn Bread 





% 


Water 

FVotein 

Fat 

Carbohyd. 

Ash 





188 



PERCENTAGE CO>V06rnON DIAGRAMS 




Apple 






% 


Water 
Protein 
Fat 

Carbohyd. 
Ash "^ 







Fig(dri< 


;d) 




% 


Water 
Protein 
Fat 
Carbohyd 

Aah "^ 






Strawberry 





% 


AA^ter 

Protein 

Fat 

Carbohyd 
Ash 


1 i i il 

! 1 ! 1 1 



Banana 





% 1 


Water 
Protein 
Fat 
Carbohyd. 

Ash 


ill'' 
1 ! i 1 1 



189 



PERCENTAGE CCMPOSmON DIAGRAMS 



xrapes 





Protein 

Fat 

CarboKyd 



Rais 



ms 





% 


Water 

Protein 

Fat 

Carbohyd. 

Ah 






Cocoanut 
Desiccated 









% 








AVater 

Protein 

Fat 

CarboKvi. 

Ash 


1 1 i 1 i 

1 1 I 1 1 




\ 













190 



PERCENTAGE COMPOSmON DIAGRAMS 



Canned Frutt 





% 1 


\C^ter 

IVotein 

Fat 

Carbohyd. 

Ash 




1 1 1 I 1 
! ! ! ! I 




Grape Ji 



uice 





% 1 


Wktcr 
fVotein 
Fat 
Carbohyd. 

Ash "^; 


III 
III 



Jelly 





% 


Water 
Protein 
Fat 

Carbohvd. 
Ash ^ 






191 



PERCENTAGE COMPOSITION DIAGRAMS 





3u< 



ig^t 





% 


Rpotein 
Fat 

Carbohyd. 
Ash ^ 







7^1 



as5e5 





% 


IVotein 

Fat 

CarboKytl, 
Ash ^ 




Hone^ 




% 


Water 
Protein 
Fat 

CartoKvrd. 
AK -^ 






192 



PERCENTAGE CX3MP05ITION DIAGRAMS 



\ 



Olive Oil 





% 


Water 

Protein 

Fat 

Carbohyd. 

Ash 





Butter 





% 


Water 

Protein 

Fat 

Carbohyd 

Ash 


I 1 1 1 1 

II 1 1* 1 
1 t 1 1 1 
i 1 1 1 1 



Lard 





% 


Water 
Protein 
Fat 

Carbohyd. 
Ash ^ 






13 



193 



PERCENTAGE CO>W35ITICN DIAGR/O^ 



Walnut 






% 


Water 
Protein 
Fat 
CarboKyd. 

A«h 





Peanut 






io 


\X4tcr 

Protein 

Fat 

CafboKyd. 

AsK 







Ghestnut 





% 


^^ter 

Protein 

Fat 

CarJbohyd. 

Aah 





Peanirt Butter 





I' 


''OO^ter 

Rrotein 

Fat 

Carbohyd. 

Ash 





194 



PERCXNTACa: COMPOSITION DIAGRAMS 




WKoIe Egg^ 





y!> 1 


Water 

Protein^ 

Fat 

Carbohyd. 

Ash 


1 1 1 1 1 
1 1 1 1 1 

1 1 1 1 




"White andVolk 





% 


Water 

Protein 

Fat 

Carlwhyd. 

Ash 


1 • 1 1 1 
1 1 1 1 1 
1 1 1 1 
1 1 1 1 1 



J 




Cream Cheese 



^X^te^ 
Proiein 
Fat 
Carbohyd 

Ash ^ 



% 



195 



PERCENTAGE COMPOSITION DIAGRAMS 




Smoked Ham 



Water 
Protein 
Fat 

Carbolwd 
I Ash 



% 



d- 



Beef Steak 




Dried Beef 



Water 
FVotein 
Fat 

Carbohyd 
Ash -^ 



196 



PEROaMTAGE CC^^OSITION DIAGRAMS 




Lamb Chop 





% 


V/Siter 

Protein 

Fat 

Carbohyd. 

AsK 


i ! ; i I 
I ! 1 1 ! 




Pork Chop 




% 


Water 





R-o+ein 


••«««■ m 


Fat 


» mm ••• 


Carbohyd. 


.1.0 •«> 


Ash 





197 ' 



PERCENTAGE COMPOSITION DIAGRA>15 




Cod 





% 


A^ter 

Protein 

Fat 

CarboKyd. 

Ash 






T^ackeFei 





% 1 


\Vater 

IVotein 

Fat 

Carbohyd. 

Ash 


1 1 i 1 
1 1 i 1 1 
1 1 1 1 1 

III 



198 



reRCENTAffiCO^'lPOSITION DIAGRAMS 



Smoked Herriri! 





% 


Water 
Protein 
Fat 

Carbohyd. 
Aah ^ 






s 



Oyster 





% 


Water 
Protein 
Fat 
Carbobyd. 

Ash ^ 


1 ! 1 i 1 
! 1 1 1 1 



5alt Cod 





% 1 


Wkter 
R-otein 
Fat 

Carbohyd. 
A^H ^ 


1 1 1 1 j 
1 1 1 1 1 
1 1 1 1 1 
1 1 1 i 1 



199 



PART E. MISCELLANEOUS AIDS TO THE STUDY OP 
THE COMPOSITION OP POODS 



CLASSIFICATION OF PLANT PRODUCTS ACCORDING TO THE PARTS (BOTANICAL) 

USED AS FOOD 

Pupil to enter the following plant products, also others, in the proper columns of the 
table below: 

spinach 

Squash 

Sugar 

Tapioca 

Tea 

Tomatoes 

Turnips 

Walnuts 

Wheat 







Cauliflower 


Lettuce 


Artichokes, dobe. 


or French 


Celery 


Mace 


Artichokes, Jerusalem 


Cinnamon 


Mustard 






Cloves 


Onions 


Beans, string 




Co£Fee 


Parsnips 


Beets 




Cucumbers 


Peas 


Broccoli 




Dasheens 


PoUtoes 


Cabbages 




Ginger 




Capers 




Gmger>root 


Rhubarb 


CarroU 




Irish moss 


Sage 



Seed Pods 


Seeds 


Covering of Seeds 


• 


Cereals: 

Legumes: 

Spices: 




Flower Buds 

(Unexpanded) 


Flowers or 
Flower Stalks 


Fruit 


Juices of Plant 






Whole fruit (in- 
cluding nuts) : 

Rinds: 




Leaves 


Tubers and 
Tuberous Roots 


Fleshy Succulent 
Roots 


Bulbs 


Fresh: 
Dried: 








Leaf Stalks 


Stems 


Trunks 


Bark of Tree 











200 



DIET FOR CHILDREN 
LOCATION OF STARCH IN VEGETABLE .FOODS 



201 



Pupil to supply data for the table below, in each colimin naming several foods rich in 
starch, if any exist. If desired, use the iodine test for starch. 



Seeds 


Fnurrs 


Leaves 


Cereals 


Legumes 


Nuts 






- 









Roots 



Tubers 



Bulbs 



Stems 



Trunk 



LOCATION OF. FAT IN VARIOUS FOODS 

Let the pupil supply data for the table below, in each column naming several foods 
rich in fat. 



Vegetable kingdom: 








Fruits 


Seeds 


Cereals 


Legumes 


Nuts 











Animal kingdom: 



PART F. EXPERIMENTS: COMPOSITION OF FOODS 

EXPERIMENT: TO TEST FOODS FOR STARCH 

Iodine is used to detect the presence of starch in foods. When iodine is added to foods, 
colors result as follows, according to the quantity of starch present: 

Blackish or dark blue Much starch 

Pale blue or greenish Little starch 

Brown, orange, or yellowish No starch 

In general, the test is more satisfactory if foods are soaked and then boiled and cooled 
before being tested with iodine. This is particularly true with carbohydrate foods, in which 
the stiff cellulose is likely to prevent contact with the iodine. (What can you say as to the 
solubility of starch in cold water? Why boil many foods before testing them for starch?) 
In testing chocolate, cocoa, and other foods of high color, each is cooked to a paste, 
then a little of the paste is spread on white paper and iodine is added. 

Pupil problem: 

a. Test the foods belonging to each of the following groups I, II, and III. 

b. Record results in the accompanying tables by means of the following scheme: 

+ + = much starch 
+ = little starch 
— = no starch 

Group I (seeds and nuts) : 

Soak the seeds and nuts, then cut each seed or nut in two and apply a drop or two of 
iodine solution. 

If no color reaction is secured in this way, grind the seed or nut to a powder, boil it in 
1 or 2 cc. water, and test again with iodine. 



Food 



Barley.. . . • 

Beans 

Brazil nuts. 

Com 

Oats 



Quantity of Starch 



Food 



Peanuts . 

Rice 

Rye 

Wheat.. 



Quantity of Starch 



202 



DIET FOR CHILDREN 



203 



Group II: 

Soak each food in cold water to cover. 

Shake or rub well, then pour a little of the water covering the food into a tt., and boil. 

Cool, and add a drop or two of iodine. 



Pood 




Food 


Quantity of Starch 


Arrowroot 




Gelatin 




Cellulose 




Oatmeal 




Cocoa 


- 


Potato 




Com meal. . . . 




Saero. 




Flaked wheat . 




Tapioca 




Flour 






' 











Group III: 

Add iodine to each food. (Soaking and cooking previous to the test are to a large 
extent nonessential with this group. It is not necessary even to add water to some foods.) 



Pood 



Quantity of Starch 



Food 



Quantity of Starch 



Apple 

Brea^ 

Cabbage 

Carrot 

Fish 

Lard 

Meat (test veal or 
other light meat) 



Milk (dried or 
evaporated) 

Onion 

Salt 

Sugar 

Turnip 

White of egg 



Noies: 

1. Test malt, malted milk, and proprietary infant foods. 

2. List animal foods, if any, which contain starch. Define glycogen. 

3. Test paper with iodine. Test cloth with iodine. 

Make an iodine spot on a doth and then "wash" it out with cornstarch (or flour) and 
water. 



204 LESSONS IN COOKERY 

EXPERIMSIfT: TO DETERMINB THE PRESENCS OF FAT IN FOODS BT 
MEANS OF THE "GREASE-SPOP' TEST 

Control test: 

a. Place a drop of water on unglazed paper. 

b. Place a drop of oil or butter on unglazed paper. 

c. Note spots made by each. Note that the characteristic spot made by the 
fat is translucent and permanent. 

1. Apply some of the following foods to small slips of unglazed paper: 

Beans, cooked (navy, soy, etc.) 
Butter, dairy 
Butter, peanut 

Cellulose (from celery or other food) 
Chocolate and cocoa 
Cornstarch 
, Egg yolk 

Fat meats (such as beef suet) 

Flour (buckwheat, white, etc.) 

Fruits (apple, etc.) 

Lard 

Meals (com, oat, etc.) 

Meat, lean 

Milk 

Nuts (Brazil nuts, peanuts, etc.) 

Olives, green and black 

Sugar 

Vegetables (potatoes, etc.) 

Etc. 

2. Dry the slips of paper and hold them to the light. 

3. Check on the foregoing list (see 1) the names of all foods that make translucent, 
permanent spots on paper; that is, those which contain fat. 

4. Label the slips of paper and mount them in notebooks. 

Notes: 

1. As a rule, it is sufficient to crush a food and rub it on the paper. 
Sometimes, however, it is well to place the food on paper, let it stand a minute, then 
remove it from paper. 

In some cases it is necessary to heat the crushed foods in order to extract the fat. Place 
the foods on little slips of paper, and spread the slips (labeled) on a shallow pan. Let them 
stand 3^ hr. in a hot oven, avoiding a heat sufficient to scorch the paper. 

Unglazed paper, such as one of the following, is better than glazed: 
Blotting paper 
Filter paper 
Letter paper 
Wrapping paper (meat paper, etc.) 



VIET FOR CHILDREN 



205 



EXPERIMENT: TO DETERMINE THE PRESENCE OF FAT IN FOODS BY 
MEANS OF A FAT SOLVENT 



Process 



Observation and Conclusion 



Place about J^*' of each of the following foods in a 
separate tt. (all solid foods to be finely chopped). 

Cover each food with carbon tetrachloride (a fat- 
solvent). Label the tt., shake well, stopper, and let 
stand 10-20 min. or longer, then observe. 



Brazil nuts 

Corn meal 

Egg yolk 

Flour 

Milk, whole 

Oatmeal 

Peanuts 

Rind of orange, lemon, etc. . . 

Tallow 

Wheat germs or whole wheat 



Notes: 

1. The finer the nuts and other solid foods are groimd, the quicker the results. Why? 
A mortar and pestle are very useful. 

2. Carbon tetrachloride is not inflammable. Benzine and ether are fat-solvents which 
are very inflammable; neither should he used by the pupil in this experiment. If either is 
used by the instructor, the entire experiment should be carried on away from flames and 
high heat. 

3. If desired, pour the extracts of egg yolk and other foods upon dry paper filters. Is 
the characteristic "fat grease-spot" formed in each case? Compare with paper filters 
upon which no extract has been poured. 

4. Very satisfactory results are secured by the following procedure: 

a. Place dried egg yolk and groimd peanuts in separate glass graduate cylinders. 
h. Cover them with carbon tetrachloride, stopper, shake, and let stand all night. 

Note results. In the case of the egg yolk note color of carbon tetrachloride 

when the mixture has stood imtil the residue is white. 

5. If desired, the instructor may perform the following experiment: 

a. Seciire the ether extract of egg yolk by means of either a filter or a pipette. 

b. Place this extract in a shallow dish, and evaporate it in a cool draft until no 
odor of ether remains; avoid heat or aflame. Note the appearance and odor 
of the oil remaining. 



206 



LESSONS IN COOKERY 



EXPERIMENT: TO DETERMINE THE PRESENCE OF PROTEIN BY MEANS 
OF THE COLD NITRIC-ACID TEST (HeUer's test) 

Control test: 



Process 



Result 



1. Place in a tt. 1-2 cc. strong nitric acid. 

2. By means of a fine-pointed pipette carefully allow a 
small quantity of a very dilute solution of egg albu- 
min to flow gently down the side of the tt. and 
to float on top of the acid. 



A characteristic white ring forms be- 
tween the acid and the albumin. 



Application of test: 



Process 


Observation and Conclusion 


1. In each of four tt. place 1-2 cc. strong nitric acid. 

2. By means of a fine-pointed pipette carefully allow 
a small quantity of each of the following liquids to 
flow gently down the sides of the four tt., respec- 
tively, and to float on top of the acid: 

Acid albtunin in acid solution 




Gelatin in water solution 




Proteose in water solution 




Peotone in water solution 




Note whether or not the typical ring is formed in 
each tt 


• 







Notes: 

1. The same test is used to detect protein (albtunin) in urine. What is the nature of 
Bright's disease? 

2. Place a drop of strong nitric acid upon each of the following, and heat (state results) : 

Small piece of lean meat 
Soaked pea 
Soaked bean 
Dried milk 
Piece of gelatin 

3. All the bodies of the protein group are turned yellow by the addition of concentrated 
nitric acid, the color being intensified by boiling. Cool, and cautiously add a little alkali, 
such as ammonia. What happens? 

4. Explain results upon placing a drop of strong nitric acid on a finger tip. Of what 
material is the human body partly composed? 



DIET FOR CHILDREN 



207 



EXPERIMENT: TO STUDY, BY MEANS OF DRY HEAT, THE GENERAL 
POINTS OF DIFFERENCE BETWEEN THE COMPOSITION OF PROTEIN 
AND THE COMPOSITION OF OTHER FOODSTUFFS 



Process 



Observation and Conclusion 



Hold (or suspend) in ttim over a Biinsen flame f our 
teaspoons containing the following: 

Lean meat, beans, or other protein food 

Sugar (such as granulated) 

Starch (such as cornstarch) 

Fat (such as lard) 

Note effect upon each of the above of the first gentle 

heat applied 

Note odor of burnt feather, characteristic of burning 
or scorching protein (this odor test is one way of 

distinguishing protein from other foodstuffs) 

To what element in protein is this characteristic odor 
due? 



3. Note effect of later heat. Which is the first food- 
stuff to catch fire when the spoons are thrust directly 
into the fire? 



Note danger of exposing a pan of fat to flames 

Why is it difficult to broil over a direct flame an oily 

fish or a very fat piece of meat? 

Place com meal and yolk of egg in a direct flame. 

Do they blaze quickly or not, and if so, why? 

What can you say as to the comparative fuel value 
of fats, carbohydrates, and proteins? 



Does each of the foodstuffs finally reach the black, 
or carbon, state? That is, are they all organic 

foods? 

Note at this point the characteristic odor of burn- 
ing fats. Note the irritating effect of the fumes 
upon the eyes. To what is this irritation due? 



5. Continue the application of heat. Is mineral 
matter, or ash, left in any of the teaspoons? 



208 



LESSONS IN COOKERY 
EXPERIMENT: TO SHOW THAT WATER IS PRESENT IN MOST FOODS 



Process 



Observation and Conclusion 



1. Place in turn pieces of lettuce, apple, and other 
fresh vegetables arid fruits on an old tin plate 



2. Cover the food with a cold jelly glass or fruit jar. 
(Why use a cold jar?) 



3. Place apparatus over a low flame and note results 
on the sides of the jar 



Notes: 

1 . Test meat and various other foods in like manner. Each pupil should test a total 
of two or three animal or vegetable foods. 

2. Explain presence of moisture on the outside of a glass of ice water on a hot day. 

3. Open a hot baked potato and hold it next to a cold glass. What is the result? 

4. Define the term "condensation of moisture." 



EXPERIMENT: TO DETECT ACID, ALKALINE, AND NEUTRAL FOODS 

Test each of the following foods with red and blue litmus paper moistened with dis- 
tilled water, then record the name of the food in one of the columns given below (in the case 
of a solid food, be stu-e that it is either dissolved in distilled water or is well moistened; 
the most satisfactory way is to dip pieces of red and blue litmus paper into distilled-water 
solutions) : 



Apple juice 
Baking powder 
Baking soda 
Buttermilk 
' Butter, rancid 
Butter, fresh 
Coffee (beverage) 
Cream of tartar 



Cucumbers 
Egg white 
Pish 

Fruits, npe 
Fruits, unripe 
Lemon juice 
Milk, sour 
Milk, sweet 



Molasses 
Raisins 
Salt 

Suet, beef 
Sugar, brown 
Sugar, white 
Tea 

Tomato juice 
Vinegar 




DIET FOR CHILDREN 209 

Notts: 

1. Taste each of the foods in the list on the foregoing page, then check the names of 
all sour-tasting foods. 

2. The following substances may also be tested with litmus paper: 

Other foods than those listed on the foregoing page 

Saliva 

Household cleansers, such as: 

Ammonia water 

Borax 

Soap, various kinds (such as Ivory and washing soap) 

Tooth powders and washes 

Washing powders and washing liquids in general 

Washing soda 

Water, tap 

Wood ashes 



14 



PART G: RECIPE VARIATIONS FOR ADULTS' DIET 

This section of the Appendix is given simply by way of correlation. The housewife, 
in preparing meals for adults as well as for children, may find these suggestions. useful. 

CREAM SOUPS 

CLASSIFICATION 

/. Soups prepared from sticctdent, or juicy, vegetables (that is, vegetables con- 
taining much water and little or no starch; see Note 3) : 
Non-acid vegetables: 

^Asparagus Mushrooms 

Cabbage Okra 

•Carrots Onions 

•Cauliflower •Peas (fresh green) 

•Celery (roots, leaves, or stalks) •Spinach 
Com Turnips 

LfCttuce Etc. 

Add vegetables: 



Tomatoes \ ^*^® ^^ members of this group) 



II. Soups prepared from starchy foods: 

•Starchy vegetables (potatoes, etc.; see page 61) 
Chestnuts (see Note 4, a, h) 
•Bread (yielding bread soup) 
•Cereals (yielding cereal soups; see Note 4, c) 

III. Soups prepared from protein foods (such soups are meat substitutes arid are 
often served as the chief course of a Itmcheon or supper) : 
Cheese, American 
Cheese,^ cottage 
Fish (salmon, oyster, etc.) 
•Legumes (beans, peas, etc.) 
Meat and poultry 
Nuts (almond butter, etc.) 
Etc. 

A^<rfes: 

1. The cream soups marked with an asterisk are among those especially useful in 
children's diet. 

2. Cream soups are very nutritious — more nutritiotis than most meat-stock soups. 
Because so rich in food value, they should not precede a heavy dinner; rather, they should 

*See recipe for cottage-cheese soup, "Cottage-Cheese Dishes," Circular 109, U.S. Depart- 
■ of Agriculture. 

210 



DIET FOR CHILDREN 



211 



be served as the first course of a Itincheon or supper. The soup, if very nutritious and if 
served with toast or other breadstuff, may constitute the entire Itmcheon or supper; a cream 
soup is often used in this way in children's or invalids' diet. A cream soup, if very thin, 
is sometimes served at dinner. 

3. Juicy (succulent, or flavor) vegetables, most of which may be used in cream soup, 
include the following (some of these vegetables, especially those marked with an asterisk, 
may be used in children's soups): 

a. Succulent, or juicy, roots and tubers: 



Artichokes, Jerusalem 
Beets 

Bulbs, most of which are used sim- 
ply as condiments or flavoring: 

Chives 

Garlic 

Leeks 

Shallots 
♦Carrots 
Celeriac 
Horse-radish (used as seasoning) 



Kohlrabi (a relative of the cabbage 

and turnip) 
*Onions 

Parsnips (frost sweetens these) 
Radishes (served chiefly as a 

relish) 
Rutabagas 
♦Salsify, or vegetable oyster (of 

sweet flavor similar to that of 

the parsnip) 
Turnips, white or yellow 



Succulent roots and tubers contain sugar, etc., in solution, and, as a general 
rule, they contain a larger proportion of water than the starchy roots and 
tubers. 



h. Succulent vegetables — not roots and 
tables which wilt very quickly, such 
Artichokes, French or Globe 
♦Asparagus 

Bamboo sprouts, Chinese 
♦Beans (such as lima and string) 
♦Cabbage family: 

Brussels sprouts 
Cabbage 
Cauliflower 
Celery-cabbage 
♦Celery 
♦Com, green 
Cucumbers 
Eggplant 

Greens, cultivated: 
Chard, Swiss 
Dashcen, leaves of 
Ka 

Lettuce 
♦Spinach 

Turnip and beet tops 
Greens, weeds used as (a source of 
economy): 
Dandelion 
Sorrel 



tubers (these include most of the vege- 
as herbaceous or green vegetables) : 
Mushrooms 
Okra 

♦Peas, green 

Peppers, sweet (green or red) 
Salad plants (green leaves, stalks, 
and shoots are used): 
Chicory 
Endive 
Lettuce^ 
Sorrel * 
Watercress 
Squash, summer 
♦Tomatoes 
Truffles 

Udo, a Japanese stalk, used in the 
same ways as asparagus; for 
example in: 
Cream soup 
Cream toast 
Salad 
Vegetable marrow (similar to 
summer squash) 



212 LESSONS IN COOKERY 

Succulent v^ietables in general are rich in mineral matter as well as in sugar. (Note 
that plenty of mineral matter is essential in the diet.) Pupil to differentiate succulent 
v^etables from starchy v^etables by means of the iodine test for starch. 

Since most membo^ of Groups a and b of vegetables (page 211) contain no starch, a 
thicker white sauce is required for juicy-v^etable soup than for starchy-vegetable soup. 

4. Possible substitutes for vegetable pulp in the general recipe for starchy-vegetable 
cream soup, page 60, include the following: 

a. Pulp of roasted chestnuts 

b. Pulp obtained as follows from boOed chestnuts: 

(1) Shell and blanch chestnuts. 

(2) Cover nuts with stock or water, boil them until tender, and press them 
through a sieve. 

c. A thin cooked cereal, such as farina or cream of wheat. Just before serving 
such a cereal soup, add the following ingredients and heat mixture in a double 
boiler until the cheese is melted: 

1 ydk of egg, beaten 
1-2 tb. grated cheese 
Bread soaked in milk is a possible substitute for the cooked cereal. 
The desirability of chestnut or cheese soup for children is questioned. 

5. In preparing cream soups add any of the following seasonings to taste (occasionally 
the milder of these seasonings are allowable in children's diet): 

Bay leaf - Sugar (with tomato soup, etc.) 

Beef extract (good in com soup) Tomato juice 

Butter (extra) Vegetables, finely chopped: 

Celery salt Carrots 

Cloves (with tomato soup) Celery stalk or root 

Mace (sometimes added to cheese soup) Onions 

Onion salt or onion juice Parsley 

Pepper (white pepper, paprika, etc.) Peppers, sweet green 

Paprika lends an attractive color to many soups. 

Add the chopped vegetables (except parsley) in either of the following ways: 

a. Add vegetables to milk, cook mixture in a double boiler 10-30 min., then strain 
the milk, and make white sauce from it. 

b. Cook vegetables, wUhotU browning them, in a little fat, then cook them in soup 
3-10 min. Strain soup before serving. (Bacon fat, Crisco, etc., bum less 
easily than butter.) 

The flavor of one or more of the chopped vegetables is often desirable in cheese soup; 
use method a, above. 

The seasoning of potato and other starchy soups is very important; as a rule, several 
of the above seasonings are used. 

6. Possible garnishes for cream soups in general include the following (in part these 
are allowable in children's soups) : 

Asparagus tips Paprika 

Celery tips Parsley 

Cream, whipped Peas, whole green 

Groimd nuts (such as almonds or Slices or cubes of cooked vegetables 

pistachio nuts) Shredded coconut 



DIET FOR CHILDREN - 213 

Garnishes for nut soups include whipped cream, ground nuts, paprika, and coconut. 
Serve a cream soup in either a heated bouillon cup or a soup plate. The daintiest method, 
especially for limcheons and receptions, is to three-quarters fill a bouillon cup, garnish, and 
serve on a small plate covered with a doily. 

Possible seasonings for oyster soup,.page 64, include the following: 
Group a: Group h: 

Celery salt Bay leaf 

Onion salt or juice Celery, chopped 

. Parsley, chopped Herbs 

Cayenne Mace, blade of 

Paprika Onion, chopped 

White pepper Pepper, sweet green, chopped 

Add Group a seasonings to oyster soup just before it is served. 
Add Group h seasonings to oyster soup in either of the following ways: 
Simmer them in a little water, then strain and add liquid to soup. 
Cook them with the fat in making white sauce (strain sauce when done). 



EGGS, MEAT, AND FISH 

NoUs: 

1. Various recipes, such as the following, are derived from the simple recipe for poached 
egg, page 77 (in part these are used in children's diet) : 

a. Egg poached in milk or cream in place of water 

h. Egg poached in strained tomato juice in place of water. When the egg is 
done, place it on toast and add a spoonful of tomato juice. 

c. Egg on a tomato slice, prepared as follows: 

(1) Dip a slice of tomato in flour and saut^ it in butter. 

(2) Place the slice of tomato on a rotmd of buttered toast. 

(3) Place a poached egg on the slice of tomato. 

(4) Season and garnish. 

A pretty effect is obtained by having the egg, tomato, and toast of the same 
diameter. 

d. Poached Qgg, with tomato sauce; see the recipe, page 78. 

2. Various additions may be made to the recipes for scrambled eggs, scrambled-egg 
omelet, and Spanish eggs, pages 78-80. In general, the following are much the same as 
for omelets (see Diet for Adults, pages 141-143): 

Dry seasonings 
Savory additions 
Garnishes 
Most of the foregoing additions are not advisable for use in children's diet. 

3. Possible additions to pressed chicken, page 82, include the following: 

Cooked rice 
Pigs'-feet jelly 
Pepper, such as paprika 



214 LESSONS IN COOKERY 

U preferred, prepare the chicken mold in layers, such as the foUowinfc: 

a. White meat of chicken 

b. Slices of hard-cooked ^;gs 

c. Dark meat of chicken 

d. Slices of ham or tongue 
Vary the mold in any way desired. 

Veal may be substituted for part or all of the chicken. 

4. Crown of lamb, page 172, is appropriate for a formal luncheon or dinner. 
Forcemeat or Saratoga chips are often desirable as a filling for the roast. 

Mint sauce, made by steeping the following ingredients together J^ hr. in a warm 
place, is good served with crown of lamb: 

}i c. finely chopped mint leaves (fresh) 

1 tb. sugar 

^ c weak vinegar 
Dried mint leaves may be used. 
Lemon juice, diluted with water, may be substituted for vinegar. 

5. Possible additions to the water in which fish is cooked (see recipe, page 82) include 
the following: 

Bay leaf 
Thyme 
Carrot 
Onion 
Possible sauces to serve with boiled fish include pickle sauce and egg sauce. 

6. If desired, stuff fish (see recipe, page 83) before it is baked, then sew together the 
edges of cavity. Mix together the following ingredients to make the stuffing: 



Itb. 

Ht. 

Ht. 



to bind 



2 c. coarse, stale bread crumbs or crisp cracker crumbs 

3-4 tb. butter or a substitute, melted 

1 egg, beaten slightly 

Ht. pepper 

Mt.salt 

1J4-2 1. of each of the following, chopped: 

Parsley 

Dill or other pickle 

Onion 

Capers 
Cold water, if needed, to bind the materials together 
For general notes on meat and fish stuffings, see Diet for Adults, page 31. 
If desired, treat a fish as follows before baking it: 

a. Bone the fish, being careful not to break the skin. 

b. Remove most of the flesh of the fish from the skin, chop it, and mix it with the 
foregoing recipe for stuffing. 

c. Refill skin, and sew edges of skin together. 

Note that a stuffed fish approaches the point of being a so-called complete dish. 

A good class exerdse consists in allowing each pupil to stuff and bake a small fish; for 
example, a perch or a smelt. The class recipe given for stuffing is sufficient for an average 
smelt. 

7. Let the pupil secure a recipe for planked fish from any standard cookbook. 



DIET FOR CHILDREN 216 

mSCELLANEOUS 

Noiti: 

1. The following variations for creamed potatoes (in part suitable for children) may 
be used; certain of these variations also apply to other non-acid vegetables. 

a. Use any of the following either as seasonings for white sauce or as garnish 
for the potatoes: 

Cheese, cottage (see below) Pepper, sweet green, chopped 

Cheese, grated Pickles, mild, chopped 

Olives, chopped Pimentos, chopped 

Parsley, chopped Salt, special (celery, onion, and garlic) 

Pepper (such as paprika) Watercress 

h. Substitute a tomato sauce or a brown gravy for the white sauce. 
c. Combine potatoes with one of the following: beets, cabbage, carrots, peas, 
or turnips. Potatoes, beets, and sauce, in proportions as follows, may be 
heated together: 

1 c. cooked potatoes cut in H' cubes 
1 c. cooked beets cut in J^' cubes 
1 c. medixun white sauce: 
2 tb. flour 
2 tb. fat 
1 c. milk 
Salt and pepper 
2-4 tb. cottage cheese may be added to each cupful of white sauce used in various non- 
acid creamed and escalloped dishes (including creamed vegetables, toast, eggs, etc). As a 
rule, it is well to neutralize the acid in the cheese by the tise of |^~M t. soda to 1 c. cheese. ' 

2. Possible variations for either cocoa or chocolate are as follows (if used with 
moderation, some of these variations may also be used in children's diet) : 

Garnishes: 

Cream, whipped (alone, or with the addition of a marshmallow) 

Marshmallow (toasted or not) 

White of egg, beaten 
Additions (not garnishes) : 

Cornstarch (to thicken slightly) 

Eggs, beaten or unbeaten (yolks and whites are often beaten separately) 

Malted milk 

Vanilla 
Spanish chocolate (too rich for children) is made with rich milk and beaten eggs; place 
eggs in a bowl and add hot chocolate to them, stirring constantly. 

A very nutritious cocoa is made by boiling the following ingredients together 3 min. : 
2 tb. malted milk 
2t. cocoa 

IH c* boiling water 
Sugar to taste 

>For further details, see "Cottage-Cheese Dishes," Circular 109, U.S. Department of Agri- 
.culture. 



216 LESSONS IN COOKERY 

Plain cocoa and chocolate are high in caloric value; use of almost any one of the varia- 
tions listed (garnishes, etc.) increases the food value. 

3. A ribbon sandwich good for use with afternoon tea or coffee is made by combining 
the following in a way similar to the method for ribbon sandwiches, page 103: 

Three slices of rye bread (gray) 

Three slices of pumpernickel (black rye bread) 

4. Possible additions to peanut butter when it is used as a filling for sandwiches 
include the following: 

Oil tor thinning (olive, Wesson, peanut, or com) 

Mayonnaise 

French dressing (1 part oil to 1 part lemon juice) 

Cream cheese 

Strained tomatoes 

5. A richer hermit is derived from the redpe for hermits, page 131, by the following 
changes: 

Increase fat to ^ c. 
Increase nuts to J^ c. 
Decrease rolled oats to 1 c. 
Decrease 2 eggs to 1 egg. 
Shredded coconut is a possible substitute for walnut meats. 

6. Alaska fritters (fried ice cream) are prepared as follows: 

a. Dip a cube of hard ice cream into a thin fritter batter. 

b. Brown cubes in hot deep fat. (The batter hardens quickly with the heat, 
and so prevents melting of the cream.) 

7. The following are often of use in the limch box: 

Coffee, hot or iced Relishes (mustard, horse-radish, etc.) 

Tea, hot or iced Pickles (olives, pickled beets, etc.) 

Meats (corned beef, ham, tongue, etc.) Potato chips 

Sardines Doughnuts 

Salad (chicken, etc.) Pie 



THE INDEX 



Abbreviations, 3 

Absorption of food nutrients [problem], 185 

Acid foods, detection of [experiment], 208-209 

Adolescent: 

calorie requirements, 118, n. 3 

day's meals, suggestions for, 117 

dietary, 12, 115 ff. 

nutrition, caution regarding, 118, n. 4 
Ages, various, diet at: 

birth to 1 year, 23-30 

1 to 2 years, 11, 31-40 

2 to 4 years, 12, 41-48 
4 to 8 years, 12, 49-66 

8 to 12 years, 12, 67-114 

12 to 18 years, 12, 115 ff. 
Alaska, baked, 112 
Alaska fritters, 216, n. 6 
Albumin water, 38 
Alcoholic drinks: 

during nursing, 26 

during pregnancy, 22 . 
Alkaline focds, detection of [experiment], 

208-209 
Almond butter, 63 
Almond-butter soup, 62, n. 6 
Apple: 

baked, 36 

grape, 152 

percentage composition diagram, 189 

stewed, 36 
Apple taffies, 162 
Apple water, 91 
Apricots, frozen, 112 
Artificial feeding;. See Infants 
Asparagus, stramed, 48 

Baking powder, use of, with sirup-flour mix- 
tures, 137, n. 3 
Banana: 

baked, 146 

composition of [problem], 147 

percentage composition diagram, 189 
Barley flour, feedmg of, 29 
Barley gruel. See Gruel 
Barley, pearl, preparation of, 37, n. 2 
Barley sugar, 160 
Barley water, 37 

feeding, 29 
Bavarian cream, rice, 113-114 
Beans, string: 

creamed, 87, n. 1 

escalloped, 88, n. 1 
Beef broth. See Meat broth 
Beef, dried,percentagecomposition diagram, 196 
Beef juice, 39 
Beefsteak: 

percentage composition diagram, 196 

planked, 171 



Between-meal lunches. See Lunches 
Beverages: 

allowed children, 93 

allowed mother, 22, 26 

food, 93, n. 1 

fruit-juice, 157, 158, n. 3 

injurious, 94, n. 3 

of no food value, 94, n. 2 
Bibliography: 

for feeding of children, 6 

on lunchrooms, 175 
Blanc mange, forms of, 140, n. 3 
Blueberry pudding, 152 
Boiled-frosting sherbet, 111 
Bottles, nursing, care of, 28 
Bread: 

directions for feeding, 12 

dried, preparation of, 44, n. 4 

objectionable forms of, 16, 17, n. 3 

percentage composition diagrams: 
com, 188 
toasted, 188 
white, 188 
whole-wheat, 188 
Bread flour, proportion for use of, 4, c 
Breadstuff s: 

for child 3 or 4 years, 44, n. 4 

time for introduction of, 34, n. 2 
Breakfast cereals. See Cereals 
Breakfast menus: 

at 2 to 4 years, 43, 46, n. 11 
with egg, 45, n. 9 

at 4 to 8 years, 51 

at 8 to 12 years, 69 

at 12 to 18 years, 117 

[problems], 71 
Brewis, 66 
Brittle, 162 
Broths: 

dam, 65 

meat, 38, 65 

oyster, 65 
Brown betty, 150, n. 2 
Butter: 

age for feeding, 12 

percentage composition diagram, 193 
Butterscotch, 163 

Cabbage: 

creamed, 87, n. 1 

escalloped, 88, n. 1 
Cake filling: 

for charlotte, 107 

marshmallow, 165," n. 6 
Cakes: 

general recipes for [problem], 136 

made with molasses, 134 

made with sugar, 137-138 



217 



21S 



THE INDEX 



Cakes (conHnued) : 

notes on method, 136 

sirup, 196 
CakMic values: 

bibliopaphy, 33, n. 1, 46, n. 12 

selection of food for, 6, n. 1 
Calorie equivalents, 4, paragraph 8 
Calorie requirements: 

of adolescents, 118, n. 3 

of children, 6 

of family, 6, n. 3 
Cambdc tea, 90 
Candies: 

classification, 160 

fruit, 160-162, 166-170 

harmful, 159, n. 3 

laxative, 160, n. 4, 167, n. 6 

objections to use of, 17, n. 4 

sirup, 160-166 

sugar, 160-166 
Carbohydrates, foods rich in, 7 
Carrots: 

creamed, 87, n. 1 

escalloped, 88, n. 1 

for beverage, 90, n. 2 

strained, 47, 48, n. 2 
Cauliflower: 

creamed, 87, n. 1 

escalloped, 88, n. 1 
Celery: 

creamed, 87, n. 1 

escalloped, 88, n. 1 

strained, 47, 48, n. 2 
Ccaitigrade equivalents, 4, paragraph 7 
Cereal coffee, 90 

Cereal flakes with fruit juice, 145 
Cereals: 

breakfast, 53-55 
preparation of, 9 

preptfuration of, 12, 43, n. 3, 53-55 

serving of, 33, n. 2, 55, nn. 4, 6 
Charlottes: 

apple, 106 

cases for, 106 

chocolate, 106, n. 2 

fillings for, 107 

fruit, 106 

garnishes for, 107 

molds for, 106 

russe, 106, 108 
Cheese: 

cream, percentage composition diagram, 195 

use of, at 4 to 8 years, 52, n. 2 

use of, at 8 to 12 years, 70, n. 4 
Cheese sandwich filling, 126 
Cheese soups, 63-64 

Chestnut, percentage composition diagram, 194 
Chicken: 

creamed, 82 

pressed, 82, 213, n. 3-214 
Chicken broth. See Meat broth 
Chicken stew, 81-82 
Chocolate, 92, nn. 1, 2 

variations, 215, n. 2 
Chocolate cornstarch mold, 100 



Chocolate mold, 97, n. 1 

Chocolate snaps, 130 

Cinnamon tea, 90 

Clam broth, 65 

Coagulating agents. See Thickening agents 

Coagulating milk, reagents for \proldem], 143 

Cocoa, 92 

feeding of, 12 

variations, 215, n. 2 
Cocoanut (desiccated), percentage composition 

diagram 190 
Cocoa^ell tea, 91-92 
Cod, percentage composition diagrams: 

fre&, 198 

salt, 199 
Coffee: 

cereal, 90 

crust, 91 

forbidden, 12, 22, 94, n. 3 
Composition of food, percentage diagrams, 

18&-199 
Composition of foods lexperimefUs]: 

fat tests, 204, 205 

points of difference, 207 

starch tests, 202-203 
Ccnnposition of foods iprohUms]: 

location of fat, 201 

location of starch, 201 

pkmt products, classification by parts, 200 
C<x>kies: 

bran, 131, n. 1 

drop sirup, 136 

general notes on, 135-137 

general recipes for l^oblem], 136 

honey, drop, 134 

molasses, drop, 133 

molasses, roll, 134 

peanut, drop, 133 

roll sirup cookies, 136 
Cora: 

creamed, 87, n. 1 

escalloped, 88, n. 1 

strained, 47, 48, n. 2 
Cora-flake macaroons, 132 
Corastarch desserts, 98^101 
Corastarch mold, plain, 98 

variations, 98-99 
Crackers: 

cora-meal, 127 

creamed, 66, n. 5 

oatmeal, 127 

souffl^ed, 66, n. 5 
Cream, use of, with cereals, 55, nn. 4-6 
Creamed non-acid v^etables (general recipe), 

87-88 
Crown of lamb, 172 
Crust Qoffee, 91 
Cup, drinking, sanitary, directions for making, 

125 
Cups for baked egg (recipe), 75 
Curdling. See Coagulatmg; Thickening 

Dates: 
dried, raw, 145 
dried, steamed, 144 



THE INDEX 



219 



Dentition: 

diet governed by, 13, n. 1 

foods suitable during, 10, n. 9 
Desserts: 

allowable at all ages, 139-140 

at 2 to 4 years, 45, n. 8 

at 2 to 12 years, 12 

at 4 to 8 years, 61, n. 1 

at 8 to 12 years, 106-114 

fruit, 144-162 

gelatin, 163-168 

made on milk basis, 96-101 

points for serving, 62, n. 2 

sauces for, 140, n. 2 
Diagrams, percentage composition, 187-199 
Dietary: 

at 12th to 18th month, 36 

at 18th to 24th month, 36 

at 3d year, 46 

suggestions for, at 1 to 2, 33 

suggestions for, at 2 to 4, 43 

suggestions for, at 4 to 8, 61 

suggestions for, at 8 to 12, 69 
Diet lor growth: 

especially adapted, 7| n. 1 

essentials for, / 
Digestion [problems], 184-186 
Digestive juices \prohlem], 184 
Digestive organs, training of, 13, n. 1 
Digestive tract Iproblem], 184 
Dinner menus, suggestions for: 
. at 2 to 4 years, 43, 46, nn. 9, 10, 11 

at 4 to 8 years, 61 

at 8 to 12 years, 69 
study of calories and cost, 72 

at 12 to 18 years, 117 
Drinking cup. See Cup 
Drinks. See Beverages 
Drop sirup cookies, 136 

Easter dish, suggestion for, 97, n. 6 
Egg-in-the-nest : 

mock, 114 

poached, 76 
Egg, scrambled-, omelet, 79 

l^ed in nests, 76 
baked in ramekins, 76 
beaten, steamed, 76 

for feeding at 10 months to 12 years, 12 
fat in Iproblem], 201 
forms for serving: 

at 2 to 4 years, 46, n. 9 

at 2 to 8 years, 9, n. 3 

at 4 to 8 years, 62, n. 2 
goldenrod, 74 
hard-boiled, 74, n. 1 
poached: 

derivatives, 213, n. 1 

method, 77-78 

steamed, 78, n. 6 

with tomato sauce, 78 
protein equivalent of, 8, n. 2, a 
scrambled, 78 
sequence in feeding, 13 



soft-cooked, 38 

use of, in soups, 67, nn. 3, 6 

white, percentage composition diagram, 195 

whole, percentage composition diagram, 196 

yoUcof: 

dietetic value, 9, n. 3, 34, n. 2 
feeding, at 1 to 2 years, 34, n. 2 
percentage composition diagram, 196 
Energy requirements, 6 
Enzymes: 
carbohydrate-splitting {problem], 184 
fat-sphtting {problem], 186 
proteolytic {problem], 185 
EscaUoped di^es: 
' fruit, with starchv material, 149 
non-add v^etables, general recipe, 88 
onions, 89 
potatoes, 88-89 
tomatoes, 89 

Fahrenheit equivalents, 4, paragraph 7 
Fats: 

for creamed soups, 67, n. 4 

how to feed, 14, n. 3 

location in foods [experiment], 201 

<^jectionable, foods containing, 16 

sequence in feeding [table], 13 

served at 6 to 7 years, 62, n. 2 

tests for [experimetU], 204, [experiment], 205 
Fat-soluble essentials, 7 
Feeding, sequence in. See Sequence in feeding 
Fig, dried: 

percentage composition diagram, 189 

raw, 146 

steamed, 144 
Fillet of beef, 171 
Filling, cake. See Cake filling 
Fish: 

baked, 83-^ 

boiled, 82 

directions r^arding, 86 

fat content, classification {problem], 86 

fat, location {problem], 201 

kinds of, allowed at 8 to 12 years, 70, n. 3 

steamed, 83 « 

stuffed, 214, n. 6 
Flavors, sequence of, 16, n. 6 
Flour mixtures: 

general method with sirup, 135-137 

made with honey, advantage of, 136, n. 1 

proportions, 4, c, d 

rules for, 4 

sirup recipes, 133-134 
Food value, comparative, of lunch foods, 

179, n. 6 
Poods: 

kinds of, for adolescent, 117, n. 2 

objectionable, 16-18 

quantity of, for adolescent, 118, n. 3 

recommended, 13-16 
Fritters, Alaska, 216, n. 6 
Fruit: 

canned, percentage composition diagram, 191 

dried, stewed, 14A 

dried, stuffed, 169 



220 



THE INDEX 



Fruit (continued) : 

escalloped, 14^151 

fresh, stewed, 144 

stewed, thickened, 146 
Fruit candies, 160-162, 16^170 
Fruit desserts, 144-152 
Fruit-juice recipes, sjmopsis of, 157-158 
Fruit leather. 168 
Fruit-nut paste, 166 
Fruits: 

allowed for desserts, 140, n. 4 

cooked, preparation of, 52, n. 2 

dietetic value of, 158, n. 1 

directions for use of, 12 

glac^, 160-161. See also Apple taffies 

kinds of, allowed at 8 to 12 years, 71 

objectionable, 16 

raw, preparation of, for infant, 13, n. 2 

sequence in feeding, 13 

served with cereals, 54 
Fruit salads, 104^105 
Fruit sauces, desserts used with, 158, n. 4 
Fruit toast, 145-146 
Ftuitu^, caution, regarding, 163, n. 2 

Garnishes': 

border: 
potato, 84 
squash, 84, n. 

for baked egg, 76 

for junket, 96, n. 5 

for soups,. 212, n. 6 

jelly, 156, n. 8 

marshmallow, 165, n. 6 
Gelatin desserts, classes of, 155, n. 4 
Gelatin jellies: 

combinations, 154, n. 2 

general method for, 153-154 

orange, 153 

proportions used in making, 154, n. 1 

pnme, 153 
Gelatin sherbet, 111 
Gingersnaps, 129 
Glac6 fruits, 160-161 
Glac6 nuts. 160-161 
Grape apples, 152 
Grape juice, percentage composition diagram, 

191 
Grapes, percentage composition diagram, 190 
Grape salad, 105 
Growth, essentials of diet for, 7 
Gruel: 

barley, 37 

porridge, preparation of, 37, n. 4 

rolled oats, 36 
Gruels, starchy, 36, 37 

Ham (smoked), percentage composition dia- 
gram, 196 

Hermits, 131, 216, n. 5 

Herring, smoked, percentage composition dia- 
gram, 199 

Honey, percentage composition diagram, 192 

Honey cake, 134 

Honey cookies, drop, 134 



Ice-cream cones, 130 
Ice-cream delicacy, 114 
Ice cream, fried, 216, n. 6 
Infant foods, proprietary, 30 
Infants: 

artificial feeding of, 25, a, 6, c. 27-^39 

diet for, 11, 23-30 

feeding of milk to, 28-29, 34, n. 2 

natural feeding of, 25-26 

secruence of foods for, 11, 28-29 
Invalids, diet recommended for, 13, n. 1, 17, 

n. 2, 18, n. 6 
Irish-moss mold, 96 
Iron, foods containing, 8, c, 9, n. 3, 15, d 

Jellies: 

gelatin, 153-158 

starchy, 36-37 
Jelly: 

barley, 37 

lemon, 156 

milk, 97, n. 4 

orange, 157 

orange gelatin, 153 . 

percentage composition diagram, 191 

pp3JiQ gelatin, 153 

rice, 37, n. 3 

rolled-oats, 36 
Jelly roll, 137-138 
Juice: 

beef, 39 

fruit, preparation of, 36 
Junket, 95-96 

Kindergarten sandwiches, 102 

Lamb chop, percentage composition diagram, 

197 
Lamb, crown of, 172 

Lard, percentage composition diagram, 193 
Laxative diet during pregnancy, importance 

of, 21, n. 1, 22 
Legumes, dried, directions for feeding, 12 
Lemon jelly, 156 
Lemon sherbet, 110 

Lime water, use of, in infant feeding, 30 
Liquids: 
for soups, 56, n. 2 

importance of, during pregnancy, 22 
in mfant feeding, 32 
Log-cabin cheese sandwiches, 103 
Lunch boxes, equipment for, 124-126, 216, n. 7 
Luncheon, high-school, suggestions for, 181 
Ltmcheon menus, suggestions for (see also 
Menus) : 
(a study), 73 
at 2 to 4 years, 43 
at 4 to 8 years, 51 
at 8 to 12 years, 69 
at 12 to 18 years, 117 
Ltmches: 
between meals: 

characteristics of, 183, n. 2 
objectionable foods, for 183, n. 4 
suggestions for, 182 



THE INDEX 



221 



dietetic scheme for, 120-122 

high-school, 181 

penny, relative values of, 180 

weekly menu for, 180, n. 6 
school, caloric value of, 180 

combinations for, 179, n. 1 
street, caloric value of, 180 
wrapping of, 125 
Ltmchrooms: 
bibliography" on, 175, n. 2 
prices of foods for [problem]^ 17&-178 

Macaroni, percentage composition diagram, 187 
Macaroons: 

corn-flake, 132 

derivatives, 132, n. 1 

rolled-oats. 132, n. 2 
Mackerel, percentage composition diagram, 198 
Marguerites: 

boiled-frosting, 128 

general recipe, 128 
Marshmallows, 164 
Marzipan, 170 

Meals, suggestions for day's. See Menus 
Measures, tables of, 3 
Meat: 

advantages of use of, 15, d 

directions for serving, 85 

fat content, classification [problem], 86, 
[problem], 201 

introduction of, into diet, 12, 14, n. 4 

kinds of, allowed at 8 to 12 years, 70, n. 3 

objections to use of, 15, c 

sequence in feeding, 13 
Meat broth, 38, 65 
Meat dishes, 171-172 
Meat, scraped-, balls, 81 
Meat stew, 81 

Meat substitute in soup, 62, n. 7, 64, n. 4 
Meltose taffy, 163 
Menus: 

breakfast. See Breakfast 

cost, for child 2 to 4 years, bibliography, 46, 
n. 12 

dinner. See Dinner 

lunch, cost of, 122, 123 
nutritive value of, 122, 123 
See also Luncheon, Ltmches 

problems, 71-73 

suggestions for: 
at 2 to 4 years, 43, 46, nn. 9, 10, 11 
at 4 to 8 years, 61 
at 8 to 12 years, 69 
at 12 to 18 years, 117 

supper. See Supper 

weekly, for penny lunches, 180, n. 6 
Milk: 

certified, 27 

coagulation, reagents causing [problem], 143 

combinations with: 
at 2 to 4 years, 43, n. 2 
at 4 to 8 years, 62, n. 2 

cow's, directions for handling, 27 

desserts made on basis of, 95-101 

directions for feeding, 27, 28, 34, n. 2 



forms of, 8, 9 

jellied. See Junket 

modified, directions for, 29-30 
in|;redients for, 28-29 

nutritive elements in, 8, n. 2, a, 140, n. 4 

quantity at various ages, 8, 12, 27, 28-29, 34, 
n. 2, 43, n. 2, 62, n. 2, 71 

reagents coagulating [problem], 143 

sequence in feeding infants, 28-29 

use of, during pregnancy, ^ 

use of, with cereals, 55, nn. 4-6 
Milk and starchy food combinations, 44, n. 5 
Milk jelly, 97, n. 4 
Milk sherbet, 110 

Milk-sugar, functional action of, 8, n. 2, b 
Mineral elements, foods containing, 7 
Mineral foods, selection of, 10, n. 7 
Modified milk. See Milk, modified 
Molasses: 

percentage composition diagram, 192 

types of, 137, n. 4 
Molasses cake, 134 
Molasses cookies: 

drop, 133 

roll, 134 
Molding of jelHes, 156, n. 6 
Mosaic sandwiches, 103 
Mother, expectant, general directions for, 20 

(quotation) 
Mother, nursing, diet for, 25, n. 
Mother's milk, reasons for substitution of 

cow's milk for, 25 
Mutton broth. See Meat broth 

"Nerves," relation of diet to, 118, n. 4 

Neutral foods, detection of [experimetU],2QS, 209 

Nipples for niu-sing bottles, 28 
care of, 28 

Nursing, advantages of, 25 

Nursing mother, diet for, 25, n. 

Nut candies, 160-161, 166-168 

Nut cookies, 133, n. 2 

Nut soup, as meat substitute, 62, n. 7 

Nuts: 
glac6, 160-161 
mtroduction of use of, 12 
objectionable foods containing, 16 
recommended at 8 to 12 years, 71 
used in soups, 212, n. 4 

Oat: 

breakfast food, percentage composition dia- 
gram, 187 

grain, percentage composition diagram, 187 
Oatmeal betty, 150, n. 2 
Oats, rolled, macaroons, 132, n. 2 
Olive oil, percentage composition diagram, 193 
Omelet, scrambled-egg, 79 
Onions: 

creamed, 87, n. 1 

escalloped, 89 
Orange baskets, 114 
Orange gelatin jelly, 153 
Orange jelly, 167 
Orange juice, therapeutic value of, 34, n. 2 



222 



THE INDEX 



Orange ped, directions for preparing, 34, n. 2 

Orange sauce, foamy, 147 

Orange sberbet, 111 

Orange straws, 160 

Orange, sunflower, 148 

Oven temperatures, 3 

Oyster broth, 65 

Oysters: 

creamed, 172 

percentage composition diagram, 199 
03r8ter soup, 64 

seasonings for, 213 
Oyster stew, 64, n. 1 

Paste: 

fruit, 168 

fruit-nut, 166 
Pasteurizing, directions for, 30, n. 1 
Pastry flour, proportions for use of, 4, c 
Peanut, percentage composition dia^am, 194 
Peanut butter, 63 

percentage composition diagram, 194 

soup, 62 
Peanut cookies, drop, 133 
Peas: 

green, creamed, 87, n. 1 
escalloped, 88, n. 1 

in a pod (salad), 104 

strained, 48 
Pecan-butter soup, 62, n. 5 
Penny lunches, relative food value of, 180 
Penny lunchrooms. See Lunchrooms * 
Pistachio-butter soup, 62, n. 5 
Planked beefsteak, 171-172 
Plant i>roducts li^roldems]: 

classification by parts, 200 

location of fats, 201 

location of starch, 201 
Poached ^gs. See Bggs 
Pork chop, percentage composition diagram, 

197 
Potato border-garnish, 84 
Potatoes: 

creamed, 87, n. 1 
variations for, 215, n..l 

escalloped, 88 

introduction in diet, 12 
Pregnancv, diet during, 21 
Preserved foods, harmful, 17 
Protein foods, selection of, 9, 10 
Proteins t 

foods containing, 7 

tests for lex^eritnetU]i 206 
Pnme {[elatin jelly, 153 
Prune juice, dietetic value of, 34, n. 2 
Prunes, stewed, 36 
Pudding: 

blueberry, 162 

fruit tapioca, 152 

sauce for, 150 

tapioca, 150, n. 6 
Pulp, fruit, preparation of, 36 

Raisins, percentage composition diagram, 190 
Ribbon sandwiches, 103 



Rice: 

percentage composition diagram, 187 

with egg yolks, 74 
Rice-balfiT fruit, 147-148 
Rice Bavarian cream, 113-114 
Rice jelly, 37, n. 3 
Rice pudding: 

witJi ^gs, 100 

without ^gSj 101 
Roll cakes, varieties of, 138, n. 4 
Rolled-oats grueL See Gruel 
Roll sandwioies, 102 
Roll sirup cookies, proportions for, 136 
Rye, percentage composition diagram, 187 

Sago pudding, 151, a 
Salads (fruit) : 

grape, 105 

m jelly mold, 104 

"peas in pod," 104 
Sandwiches: 

cracker, 127, n. 2 

kindergarten, 102 

log-cabin cheese, 103 

mosaic, 103 

peanut butter, 216, n. 4 

ribbon, 103, 216, n. 3 

roll, 102 
Sandwich filling, 102, 103, 126, 127, 167, n. 7 
Sanitary drinking cup. See Cup 
Sauce: 

for creamed toast, 66 

for pudding, 150 

white: 
for vegetables, 48, 88, n. 4 
for soups, 60, 61, n. 3 
Scrambled eggs. See Eggs 
Scraped-meat balls, 81 
Sea-moss desserts, 96-98 



allowable, 88, n. 3 

for soups, 212, n. 5 

objectionable foods containing, 17 
Sequence in feeding, 11, 12, 13 
Sherbets: 

boiled-frosting. 111 

fruits used in, 109 

gdatin, 111 

general notes on, 109 

lemon, 110 

milk, 110 

orange. 111 

pineapple, 110 

water ice, 110 

whipped-cream, 112 

white-of-egg, 110 
Shortcake, 151 

Sirup cakes, proportions for, 136 
Sirup-flour mixtures, treatment of, 137, n. 3 
Sirups: 

aad content, 137, n. 3 

flour mixtures made with, 133-137 

substitution of, 137, n. 2 

types of, 136, n. 1 
Snaps, chocolate, 130 



THE INDEX 



Soda: 
action of, 60, nn. 1-3 
neutralizing acids with, 60, nn. 1-3 
use of, with sirup-flour mixtures, 137, n. 3 
Soups: 
cheese, 63 
cream: 

classification, 210 
from add vegetables, 59 
from non-acid vegetables, 58 
general recipe, 56 

methods for, 68, nn. 7, 8, 210, n. 1-213 
protein-food, 62-65 
recommended at 8 to 12 years, 71 
starchy-vegetable, 60-61, 212, n. 4 
garnishes for, 212, n. 6 
nut, 62, 63 
oyster, 64 

seasonings for, 213 
peanut butter, 62 

seasonings for, 212, n. 5 
v^etables used for, 211, n. 3 
Spamsh eggs. See Eggs 
Spinach, strained, 47, 48, n. 2 
Starch, test for [experiment], 202-203 
Starchy foods, sequence in feeding, 13 
Sterile drinking water, 40 
Sterilizing, directions for, 30 
Stew: 
chicken, 81, 82 
meat, 81 
oyster, 64, n. 1 
Strained vegetables, 34, n. 2, 47-48 
Strawberry, percentage composition diagram, 

189 
Sugar: 
cautions agamst use of, 17, n. 4, 55, n. 6 
foods furnishing, 140, n. 4 
introduction of, 12, 70, n. 4 
kinds of, for infant feeding, 29, n. 1 
milk-, action of, 8, & 
objectionable foods containing, 16 
objections to use of, 17, n. 4 
percentage composition diagram, 192 
powdered, how to measure, 4, b 
Sunflower orange, 148 
Supper menus: 
(a study), 73 
at 2 to 4 years, 43 
at 4 to 8 years, 61 
at 8 to 12 years, 69 



Taffies, apple, 162 
- - "lelto " 



Taffy, Meltose, 163 
Tapioca pudding: 
minute, 150, n. 6 
pearl, 151, c 
quick fruit, 152 
Tea: 
cambric, 90 
cinnamon, 90 
cocoa-shell, 91 
forbidden, 12 



Temperatures, oven, 3 
Thickening a^^ts: 

for soups, 67, n. 3 

kinds of, 141-143 

quantities of \proUem\t 143 
Toast: 

fruit, 145-146 

milk, 66 
Toasts, cream, 66 
Tomatoes, escalloped, 89 
Tomato juice, therapeutic value of, 34, n. 
Tomato soup: 

without soda, 60 

with soda, 69 
Turnips: 

creamed, 87, n. 1 

escalloped, 88, n. 1 

Utensils for artificial feeding: 
care of, 28 
choice of, 27 

V^etable foods, location of starch in \probilem\^ 

201 
Vegetable garnishes, 84, 171 
Vegetable-gelatin jellies, 156-158 
Vegetable, starchy-, cream soups, 60-61 
Vegetable water, uses for, 47, 66, n. 2 
Vegetables: 

acid, escalloped, 89 

allowed at 8 to 12 years, 71 

economic uses of, 47, 56, n. 1 

introduction of, into diet, 12, 34, n. 2 

juicy mild, 46, n. 7 

non-acid, creamed, 87-88 

non-add, escalloped, 88 

objectionable, for child under ten, 71, n. 4 

recommended, 44, n. 6, 62, n. 2 

sequence in f^ing, 13 

strained, 34, n. 2, 47-48 
white sauce for, 48 

used for cream soupts, 61, 211 
Vitamines, foods rich in, 7, 8, d^ 10, n. 6 

Walnut, English, soup, 62, n. 6 

Walnut, percentage composition diagram, 194 

Water ice, 110 

Water: 

albumin, 38 

barley, 37 

drinking, sterile, 40 

presence of, in foods [experinterU], 208 

use of, in ixifant f eedmg, 12, 34, n. 2 
Whipped-cream sherbet, 112 
White-of-egg sherbet, 110 
White sauce: 

for asparagus, 48 

for cream soups, 60 

for golden rod eggs, 74 

for milk toast, 66, n. 1 

for non-add vegetables, 88, c 

for strained v^etables, 48, n. 1 



HOME ECONOMICS SERIES 

LESSONS IN COOKERY 

Bjf Frances Elizabeth Stei»arU Instructor in Home Economics, 
Robert Lindblom Technical High School, Chicago 

This series, a two years course for high schools, is a definite force for self help. Based 
upon economic values, and treating foods and their preparation for the child, adidt, and 
invalid in relation to health, these four books not only make for better and more prof- 
itable service in the home, but they lay the foundation of a radical improvement in health 
for those who come under their influence. 

Food Economy. Book One consists of lessons in cooking carefully planned 
to lower the cost of living and to attain the greatest values in foods. Naturally "the 
balanced ration," and "the complete dish," are features of the book. Food economy 
treats the preservation of foods by means of drying and canning, "left-overs," inexpensive 
meat cuts, stews, meat substitutes, bread, and wheat substitutes, and gives invaluable 
exercises and aids for the use of the future housewife $1.25 

Diet for Adults, in Book Two the needs of the worker are the subject of 
study, and calorie values are the basis of the dishes treated. Suitable diets for both 
hard and light workers are carefully considered. Problems in calorie values, as the 100 
calorie portion scheme, give the pupil thinking work to do $1.25 

Diet for Children. Book Three deals with suitable foods for babies and 
children. For the older infant there are broths, gruels, and fruit juices, and for children 
of four to eight years, such dishes as cereals, cream soups, simple fruit and milk desserts. 
The older child also has attention. Sections on lunch boxes, parties, and penny lunch- 
rooms have point for teacher, parent, and pupil $1.25 

Diet for Invalids. Book Fotu* gives an interesting insight into foods in their 
relation to disease. Here are bran breads and dried foods useful for elimination diseases, 
special diet for diabetes and fever patients, and for children wasting from malnutrition, 
there are foods valuable for iron, fats, and proteins. The book is one of worth not only 
to the teacher and pupil, but to the nurse and mother S1.25, 

These books are bound also in laboratory form ready for filing in notebooks. 

Price, each, $1.25 

RAND McNALLY & COMPANY 

CHICAGO NEW YORK 



/ 



_ This ttfipfebook may be borrowed for 
two weeks, with the privilege of renew- 
ing it once. A fine of five centB a day is 
iBcurred by failiire to retiirn a book on 
the jlate when it is due. 

The Education Library is open from 
9 to 5 daily except Saturday when it 
clOBea at 12.30. 



D17E 



DUE 





This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 
to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 
to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 
are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other marginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 
publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing this resource, we have taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 

We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain from automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attribution The Google "watermark" you see on each file is essential for informing people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liability can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 



at jhttp : //books . qooqle . com/ 



£ ^r.T £Q { e 



/. l*,Z£ 



\s 



Y.6.3 



S-tr H^fe-?CT ) 



l&arbart College librarj 




LIBRARY OF THE 

DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION 



BUREAU OF 
VOCATIONAL GUIDANCE 




3 2044 102 873 445 



LESSONS IN COOKERY 

FOOD ECONOMY 



HOME ECONOMICS SERIES 



LESSONS IN COOKERY 



BOOK ONE 
FOOD ECONOMY 



By 
FRANCES ELIZABETH STEWART 

Instructor in Home Economics, Murray F. Tuley High School, Chicago 




RAND McNALLY & COMPANY 

CHICAGO NEW YORK 



Copyright, 1918 
y Rand McNally & Company 



HARVARD UNIVERSITY 

DIVISION OF EDUCATION 

■UOTAU OF VOCATIONAL GUI»AN§1 



HARVARD 

uwversityI 

LIBRARV } 



MICRORLUED 
AT HARVARD 



EH 

RD I 




THE CONTENTS 



PAGE 



The Preface vii 

PART I. INTRODUCTION 

Classification of Foods 3 

Effects of Heat, Moisture, and Mechanical Action on the Cooking of Foods 5 

General Information 7 

PART II. PRESERVATION OF FOODS 

Preservation of Foods by Removal of Water . ' . 11 

Preservation by Moist Heat — The Canning of Foods 17 

Preservation of Foods by Acid or Salt, in Some Cases with Moist Heat, 

Sugar, and Spice ". 25 

Preservation of Foods by a Large Quantity of Sugar, Moist Heat, and in 

Some Cases Spice " . 31 



PART III. COMPLETE DISHfiS 

Introduction , 45 

Stuffed Juicy Vegetables, Baked or Boiled 52 

Stuffed Starchy Vegetables 55 

Complete-Dish Hashes 59 

Sauteed Complete-Dish Balls 61 

Creamed Protein Foods; White Sauces and Their Derivatives 64 

Complete-Dish Sandwiches . .72 

Complete Escalloped Dishes 75 

Complete-Dish Croquettes 81 

Complete-Dish Loaves; Rice Foundations 88 

Complete-Dish Dried-Legume Stews 95 

Complete-Dish Fish Stews 97 

Complete-Dish Turnovers 99 

Complete-Dish Pies 101 



PART IV. COOKING OF THE CHEAPER MEAT CUTS 

Introduction 107 

Meat Stews 112 

Braised Meats ,120 

Meats Cooked with Acids; Baked Potatoes 125 

Broiled Meat Balls . . . , 130 

Protein-Food Croquettes 133 

Meat Stock 135 

v 



vi THE CONTENTS 

PART V. USE OF MEAT SUBSTITUTES 

PAGI 

Dried Legumes as a Meat Substitute 143 

Eggs and Fish as Meat Substitutes 148 

Cheese as a Meat Substitute 151 

PART VI. HOMEMADE BREAD AS A MEANS OF REDUCING 
THE HIGH COST OF LIVING 

Short-Process Breads 156 

White-Bread Derivatives 158 

Miscellaneous Breads 160 

APPENDIX 

Part A. Substitutes for the Chief Wheat Flours 165 

Part B. Miscellaneous Thrift Suggestions .171 

The Uses of Left-over Foods 171 

Homemade Extracts 173 

* Fats 173 

General Thrift Hints for Housekeepers . . 175 

Part C. Marketing Tables and Guides 180 

Protein Foods 180 

Chief Energy-yielding Foods 217 

Miscellaneous Foods 225 

Part D. Adulteration of Foods 230 

Part E. Business Methods for the Household 237 

Budgets .237 

Feeding a Family of Six 240 

Keeping a Cashbook and Ledger 243 

Bank Accounts . 246 



The Index 251 



THE PREFACE 

This volume, like its companions of the series, Diet for Adults, Diet for 
Children, and Diet for Invalids, is designed primarily for the high-school student 
of home economics. It covers a semester's work, containing forty cooking 
lessons, two for each week of the semester; two fifty-minute or two sixty-minute 
periods, not less time, are recommended for each lesson. The lessons are planned 
according to foods in season from September to February. The Appendix 
contains optional work, to be assigned at the discretion of the teacher as recita- 
tion or home work to meet the varying requirements for credit in home economics. 

All persons agree that the spending of money is as important as the earning 
of money. Food Economy contains forty cooking lessons based roughly on 
economic values. The lessons consist of work with menus and recipes for the 
reduction of the high cost of living. It is hoped that the book will prove to be 
of some value during the hard times due to the war. Special attention is called 
to the original series of complete-dish recipes and the opportunity it offers for 
the use of left-over food. (A few expensive ingredients, however, are mentioned 
in certain recipes in the book; these are given merely to round out recipe ideas.) 
The instructor may avoid too great an expense for the school by having the 
pupils bring from home many ingredients, such as foods for drying and canning, 
and left-overs for use in the complete-dish series; for example, a protein food 
or a starchy food may be brought for each of the complete-dish lessons. 

The book is arranged topically, but suggestions for definite lessons precede 
each section. It is not imperative that the topics or the lessons be presented in 
the order given; season and market conditions often necessitate a change. The 
aim has been to include only such cooking lessons as illustrate some economic 
or dietetic principle; recipes are constructed and grouped according to their 
economic and food values. The dietetic principle has been exalted above the 
application of the principle; in other words, the grouping of recipes under a 
principle to be illustrated has made the comprehension of the law of more 
importance than the use of the recipes themselves. ** 

The book presupposes little, if any, preliminary training in general science 
or in cookery. It is in condensed and summarized form, making quick reading 
possible, and has been kept as simple as feasible. Much chart work is given, 
but only the minimum of experimental work. The aim has been to avoid text 
as far as possible and to give the subject matter in the form of laboratory problems 
which will develop initiative and responsibility in the pupil. Thus, particularly 
in the Appendix, the book carries out to a marked degree the project or problem 
method of teaching. The author hopes that the book will be an aid to that 
kind of teaching which helps the student, whether in the school or in the home, to 
help herself. The author believes in individual work for the pupil, not group 
work; the class recipes will be found helpful, especially to beginning teachers. 

VII 



viii 1HE PREFACE 

The lessons in the last three books of the series are also arranged in sequence 
according to season: Book Two, February to June; Book -Three, September to 
February; Book Four, February to June. The recipes in the four books have 
been carefully tested. Bread and butter and relishes, unless specified, are under- 
stood in any menus given. Since each book is a unit in itself, it is not essential 
to teach the entire series to a given class of pupils, although it is very desirable 
to do so. The series is recommended for use by either the younger or the older 
girls in high school. However, the author believes that the more mature mind 
is better fitted for a study of dietetics. 

Each of the four books is also published in the form of a loose-leaf "filler" 
suitable for class use. Loose-leaf books in general offer great flexibility for the 
teacher and student, having already proved their value in the botanical and 
other high-school science laboratories. Such books form a framework for the 
teaching of any given course, and are time-savers in that the pupil is spared 
mechanical copying of such material as charts and recipes. As a sheet is required 
for a lesson, it is removed from the "filler" and placed in an inexpensive note- 
book cover. A loose-leaf laboratory book is distinctly a pupil's book, not a 
teacher's. Some scheme should be devised for keeping the recipe sheets clean 
during the lesson period; one possible way is to post a few extra copies on the wall 
of the laboratory. The loose-leaf plan allows opportunity for added experimental 
work at the discretion of the teacher; it also allows space for additional recipes 
and mounted illustrations and other clippings from newspapers and magazines. 

It is hoped that all the volumes will prove useful to homekeepers. The bound 
books may be preferred by homekeepers, the loose-leaf by school girls. 

The series was developed as a result of a number of years' teaching experience 
in the Wendell Phillips and the Murray F. Tuley High Schools of Chicago. In 
addition, three years were spent by the author as critic teacher of grade cooking 
in the Chicago Normal School. 

The author wishes to express thanks to Professor Mary D. Chambers, B. S., 
A. M., formerly of Rockford College, whose interest and cooperation have been 
invaluable in the accomplishment of the work of the series. The author is also 
greatly indebted to Dr. A. D. Emmett, formerly of the University of Illinois 
Agricultural Experiment Station, for his criticism of several topics in Food Economy 
and for his cooperation in preparing the marketing diagrams and tables on meat. 
(These diagrams and tables are the result of a careful study of recent packing- 
house data and of reliable bulletins, such as Bulletin 158 of the University of 
Illinois Agricultural Experiment Station, by L. D. Hall and A. D. Emmett.) 
Thanks are due to the University of Illinois Agricultural Experiment Station for 
the use of the excellent meat cuts, and also to Teachers College, Columbia Univer- 
sity, for the use of an important photograph. Acknowledgment is made of the 
training received at Pratt Institute. Finally, the author wishes to express grati- 
tude to her pupils, the industry and enthusiasm of whom have given the impetus 
for the development of the series. 

F. E. S. 



PART I 

INTRODUCTION 



FOOD ECONOMY 



CLASSIFICATION OF FOODS 

L INORGANIC FOODS 
Inorganic foods include the following: 

1. Water. 

2. Mineral constituents; the following foods are among those characterized 
by a relatively high mineral content: 

Beans, peas, lentils Asparagus, celery, spinach 

Skim milk Oranges, raspberries, rhubarb 

IL ORGANIC FOODS 

Organic foods include the three following groups: 





2. Nitrogenous or 


3. Carbo-nitrogenous Foods 


1. Non-nitrogenous Foods 


Protein Foods 


These are the most nearly per- 


These are often called car- 


The following foods 


fect foods; the following foods 


bonaceous foods; they include 


are characterized by 


contain a fairly good balance of 


the following: 


protein: 


carbonaceous and protein material : 


Foods characterized by fat: 


Cheese 


Breakfast cereals: 


SOLID FOODS 


Eggs 


Wheat 


Bacon 


Fish 


Oats 


Butter and butter 


Poultry 


Etc. 


substitutes 


Meat, lean 


Flour mixtures: 


Pork, salt 


Gelatinf 


Bread, crackers, etc. 


Etc. 




Pastes (such as macaroni 


LIQUID FOODS 




and noodles) 


Cream 




Legumes, dry: 


Oils 




Beans 


Foods characterized by starchr 




Lentils 


Potatoes 




Peanuts 


Rice 




Peas 


Etc. 




Nuts: 


Foods characterized by sugar:* 




Almonds 


Candies 




Pecans 


Fruits, dried 




Walnuts (English) 


Jellies 




Etc. 


Sirups (honey, etc.) 




Milk 



* Starch and sugar are the chief members of a group of foods called carbohydrates; fats are not included in 
the group. 

T Gelatin is an "incomplete" protein. As a sole protein food in the diet it is not adequate for the maintenance 
of nitrogen equilibrium. Study Sherman, Chemistry of Food and Nutrition, page 302. 



LESSONS IN COOKERY 



1. The functions of foods are as follows: 
To yield energy for heat and work 
To build tissue 
To regulate body processes 
Foods of each of the three types should be represented in each day's menu. 
Book IV.) 



(See 



FOODS WHICH FURNISH 



Patty foods 
Carbohydrate foods 
Protein foods* 



FOODS WHICH BUILD 
TISSUE 

Protein foods 

Foods rich in mineral 

salts, such as calcium 

salts 



FOODS WHICH REGULATE 
BODY PROCESSES 

Foods rich in mineral salts and 



organic acids f 
Waterf 



The carbo-nitrogenous foods contain an abundance of both carbon and nitrogen, and 
hence serve both the following purposes: 
Yield energy 
Build muscle and other tissue 

2. The following protein foodstuffs are found to a greater or less extent in many of 
the nitrogenous and carbo-nitrogenous foods. Pupil to specify where these are found: 

Albumin 

Casein 

Gelatin 

Gluten 

Legumin 

Myosin 

3. The following carbohydrate foodstuffs are found to a greater or less extent in many 
of the non-nitrogenous and carbo-nitrogenous foods. Pupil to specify where these are found: 

Cellulose 
Gums 
Starch 
Sugars 



4. Pupil to define the terms food and foodstuff. 

5. To the teacher: Opportunity is given in Book One for teaching the principles under- 
lying the cooking of carbohydrates, fats, and proteins, such as: 



STARCH 

Boiled potatoes 
Boiled rice 
White sauce 



Canned foods 
Jellies 



FAT 

Fried foods 
Sauteed foods 



Cheese dishes 
Egg dishes 
Fish dishes 
Legume dishes 
Meat dishes 



* Protein foods are, as a rule, an extravagant source of energy. 

t Fruits and vegetables are especially rich in mineral salts, organic acids, and water, as well as in accessory 
substances. 



FOOD ECONOMY 5 

EFFECTS OF HEAT, MOISTURE, AND MECHANICAL ACTION 
ON THE COOKING OF FOODS 

I. DRY HEAT 

{Baking, broiling, and oven-roasting) 

1. Melts sugar and changes it to (a) barley sugar, (6) caramel. 

2. Browns starch and changes it to dextrin. 

3. Melts fat and may finally scorch it. Beware of the scorching point, since 
irritating substances may be formed. 

4. Hardens (coagulates) and toughens some proteins, such as albumin and 
gluten. 

5. Evaporates water and expands steam. 

6. Expands air and carbon dioxide, as used for leavening purposes. 

7. Alters and volatilizes some salts, such as calcium carbonate and sodium 
chloride. 

8. Develops the flavoring substances of foods, as in meats. 

II. COLD WATER 

1. Dissolves sugar (one-half its volume of sugar). 

2. Has little or no effect on starch. 

3. Dissolves albumin, and with the salts present dissolves some of the globulin. 

4. Softens and swells gelatin. f ^ 

5. Dissolves common salt (almost one-third its volume of salt). 

6. Dissolves certain of the mineral salts occurring naturally in foods. 

7. Dissolves the extractives of meat and the flavoring substances of other 
foods. 

m. BOILING WATER 

1. Dissolves sugar (an equal volume). 

The sugar turns to glucose and fructose if the heat is long continued; if a little 
acid is added, these are formed more quickly. (Cold water plus acid will turn sugar 
to glucose and fructose if the mixture is allowed to stand. Note, for example, that 
both glucose and fructose are formed in lemonade [strained] after it has stood 24 
hr. or longer.) 

2. Swells starch grains and makes them more porous, hence more digestible. 
The starch turns to glucose if the heat is long continued; if a little acid is added, 
the glucose is formed more quickly. 

3. Disintegrates cellulose. The addition of either a little acid or a little alkali 
assists in disintegrating the cellulose. 

4. Melts fats, and on long action changes some fats to fatty acids, which add 
to the flavor of foods. 

5. Hardens (coagulates) albumin. The addition of acid to the water in certain 
proportions increases the toughening effect at first, but upon continued heating 
it decreases this toughening effect. 

6. Dissolves gelatin. 



6 LESSONS IN COOKERY 

7. Softens connective tissue (collagen) and finally changes it into more or less 
soluble forms, such as gelatin. The addition of a little acid increases the effect 
of water. 

8. Dissolves common salt (one-third its volume of salt). 

9. Dissolves certain of the mineral salts occurring naturally in foods. 

10. Dissolves the extractives of meat and the flavoring substances of other 
foods. v 

IV. MECHANICAL ACTION 

1. Pounding softens the fibers of both animal and vegetable foods. (Pupil 
to define connective tissue and cellulose.) 

2. Beating incorporates air in the following substances, and so makes them 
light: 

Albumin 
Gelatin 
Gluten 
. All three of these substances are viscous or sticky in character. Gluten is 
exceedingly elastic. 

Note$: 

1. In the first three sections of the rlsum6 the food constituents are considered in the 
following order: 

Carbohydrates 

Fats 

Proteins 

Water 

Mineral salts 

Organic extractives (see Note 2) : 

a. Non-nitrogenous substances (lactic acid, etc.) 

b. Nitrogenous non-protein substances (such as creatin) 

c. Food hormones or vitamines, and other accessory substances 

d. Fatty acids (formed during cooking of fats) 

2. It is thought by some that certain members of each of the three preceding groups 
a, b, and d contribute to the flavor of cooked foods. 

3. Ah important point to remember in cooking is that in general high temperature 
produces high flavor in foods; that is, flavor varies as the temperature, provided the cooking 
does not continue too long. 

HIGH-TEMPERATURE COOKING LOW-TEMPERATURE COOKING 

Broiling Boiling and stewing 

Oven roasting Cooking in steam at 212° F., or 100° C. 

Saut^ing Cooking in a double boiler « 

Frying Cooking in a fireless cooker 

Cooking in steam under pressure, with a 

temperature over 212° F., or 100° C, 

as in steam ovens, high - pressure 

cookers, etc. 



FOOD ECONOMY 



GENERAL INFORMATION 



TABLE OF ABBREVIATIONS 



spk.= speck pk. speck sec. = second . 
d.=drop oz.=« ounce min.=minute 
ssp.=saltspoon lb. » pound hr.=hour 

t. * teaspoon pkg. = package C. « calorie 
tb. = tablespoon h. — heaping °P. =* degrees Fahrenheit 
c. =* cup b.p. = baking powder °C. * degrees Centigrade 
pt. = pint tt. = test-tube 
qt.=quart *=inch 

/ denotes a fraction: Y^ c. = one-half cup 
- denotes gradation: 1-2 c. = 1 to 2 c. 


TABLE OP MEASURES 


dash =one sprinkle 
4 ssp. = 1 1. 

3t. = ltb. 
16tb. = lc. 

2c. = lpt. 


4 c. =1 qt. 

2c. butter = lib. 
4 c. flour = 1 lb. 
1 egg =4 tb. 


TABLE OP OVEN TEMPERATURES* 


Oven *F. 
Slow &>O-3*0 
Moderate 350-400 
Hot or "quick" 400-450 
Very hot 450-550 


°C. 

(Pupil to supply) 


TABLE OF MISCELLANEOUS TEMPERATURES t 


Process 




°F. 


°c. 


Simmering of water 




180^210 


82-99 


Double boiler, top part 




102-201 


89-94 


Boiling water at sea level 




212 
165 


100 


Jellies (boiling point of water 100° C.) 


103 


Coagulation of albumin 




133-160 


(Begins at 56 ; is completed at 71) 
37-60 


Cheese-making 




08.6-140 




(Depends upon acidity) 


Raising of bread (temperature of room) 




79-104 


26-40 


Baking of bread — temperature of center of oven . 




356-428 


180-220 



• Technical Education Bulletin tt, Columbia University, "Some Attempts to Standardize Oven Temperatures 
for Cookery Processes." by Van Arsdale. 

t Adapted from table, page 17, "Fats and Oils in Cookery: Cooking Temperatures," University of Illinois 
Bulletin. Vol. XIV. No. 47. 



8 • LESSONS IN COOKERY 

MISCELLANEOUS STATEMENTS 

1. Unless otherwise specified, all measurements are level. All leveling of 
ingredients in cups, spoons, etc., should be done with the flat side of a spatula, 
not the edge. 

2. Possible reasons for discrepancies which may arise in the recipes are: 

a. Lack of standardization as to the size of spoons, "measuring" cups, 
etc. (Most saltspoons sold are not of standard size.) 

b. Varying degrees to which flour and other ingredients are packed. 

3. The following rules concerning flour mixtures should be observed: 

a. Measure flour for baking after the first sifting; this rule applies as well 
to quantity of flour mentioned in all standard cookbooks. 

b. Dip flour lightly into a cup by spoonfuls; do not pack by scooping 
with the cup or shaking the cup; aim to keep the flour light. In 
measuring a fraction of a cup, level with a spoon, do not shake. 
Rules a and b apply also to certain other dry ingredients which pack 
easily, such as powdered sugar. 

c. Pastry and bread flours may be used interchangeably in all recipes, 
as desired, but note that less liquid is required with pastry than with 
bread flour; an average rule is to allow 1% c. pastry flour to 1 c. bread 
flour. Brands of both bread and pastry flours vary greatly as to 
their requirements for liquid, hence no set rule can be given. 

d. The first figure of the ratios 1:1, 2:1, 3:1, etc., as applied to flour 
mixtures = flour; second figure = wetting. 

e. In all recipes, sour milk and soda may be substituted for sweet milk 
and baking powder. 

4. In most cases, the class recipe is placed at the left of the corresponding large 
recipe. 

5. As a rule, all class recipes should be cooked more quickly than the large 
recipes, proportionately speaking; otherwise they dry out. This applies particu- 
larly to the cooking of meats and to baking in general. 

6. Note directions for changing °C. to °F., and vice versa (parentheses are used 
in the second statement, but not in the first) : 

%°C.+32=°F. 
Jtf( F.-32)=°C. 

7. The term " calorie,' ' as used in the manuals, means the greater calorie, that 
is, the amount of heat required to raise the temperature of 1 kg. of water 1°C. ; this 
is very nearly the same as the heat required to raise 4 lb. of water l d F. 



PART II 
PRESERVATION OF FOODS 



SUGGESTIONS FOR LESSONS 

Preservation by Removal op Water 

1. Dried fruit — apples; dried vegetables — tomatoes 

Preservation by Moist Heat 

2. Canned vegetables — tomatoes (cold-pack) 

3. Canned fruit — peaches or plums (cold-pack) 

4. Canned grape juice (cold-pack) 

5. Canned vegetable seasoning mixture (hot-pack) 

Preservation by Acid 

6. Sweet-pickled peaches or sweet peppers (hot-pack) 

7. Mustard pickles (hot-pack) 

Preservation by a Large Quantity of Sugar 

8. Economical marmalades — fruit butter or tomato-raisin conserve 

9. More expensive marmalades — plum-orange conserve 

10. First-extraction jelly from grapes, apples, or other ideal jelly fruit 

Second- and Third-Extraction Jelly 

11. Second-and third-extraction jelly from grapes, apples, or other ideal jelly fruit 



PRESERVATION OF FOODS BY REMOVAL OF WATER 

Drying is a simple process and a method worthy of present-day use in the 
home. Practically all fruits and vegetables may be dried at home and stored 
for future use. 

The following are some of the advantages of drying fruits and vegetables in 
the home: 

a. Little or no expense is involved; this point is of special importance 

when cans are so expensive that canning of foods is impracticable. 

6. Means of saving large quantities of surplus products which go to 

waste each year in gardens and fruit plots. 
c. Means of conserving portions of food which are too small for canning. 
Water is all that is removed from the food by the drying process; the texture, 
flavor, and food value are not injured. One hundred pounds of certain fresh vege- 
tables will reduce to 10 pounds in drying without loss of flavor or food value. 

To restore the water, soak the dried food for several hours, or over night. 
Once soaked, dried vegetables and fruits can be cooked in almost any of the ways 
in which fresh ones are cooked. 

Pupil to study various references on drying, such as the following: 

a. Farmers' Bulletin 841, U.S. Department of Agriculture, "Drying 

Fruits and Vegetables in the Home." 
6. Home Drying Manual for Vegetables and Fruits, published by the 
National Emergency Food Garden Commission, Washington, D.C. 
• r Fruits and vegetables, as well as various other foods, are dried commercially; 
pupil to prepare a price list of various factory products such as: 
Cherries Cauliflower 

Cranberries Corn, sweet 

Huckleberries Okra 

Strawberries Onions 

Cabbage Potatoes 

Carrots Spinach 

ESSENTIALS IN THE DRYING PROCESS 

1. Circulation of air: The greater the surface exposed, the quicker the process 
of evaporation and the safer. Recent experiments have shown that currents of 
dry air are better than heat for removing surplus water. 

2. Heat 

3. Cleanliness: Guarding against dust and insects. 

4. Speed: The quicker the process of drying, the less danger from bacteria, 
yeasts, and molds. 

11 



\2 LESSONS IN COOKERY 

THREE PRINCIPAL AGENTS IN HOME DRYING 

(Use singly or in any combination) 

1. Air blast: Place the food on shelves in a rack and dry before an electric 
fan; use of the fan is practical only in parts of the country where electric power 
is cheap. 

2. Sunshine: This is satisfactory only in very dry climates, and in places free 
from soot and with plenty of space for trays. 

3. Artificial heat: This is the agent usually employed in the average home. 
Conditions are best when currents of heated air pass over the product, as well as 
up through it. 

Expose the food at first to gentle heat and gradually increase to a somewhat 
higher temperature: use a thermometer. Do not allow the air temperature to go 
above 140M50°F., or 60°-65°C; it is wise to keep it well below this point. 
Avoid scorching the food or injuring its flavor by too high a temperature. The 
time required varies; see time-table, page 13. 

With artificial heat, the food may be dried in any of the following ways: 

a. Spread on trays in an oven — the warming oven or the baking oven 
with the door left ajar — or in a specially constructed oven or drier. 
In some cases the homemade driers are similar to the commercial 
driers. With fruits an excellent method is to dry them in the sun 
until the surface begins to wrinkle, then complete the process in the 
drier. 

b. Spread on trays on the back of the kitchen stove or on a radiator. 

c. Spread on trays or racks and suspend over a radiator or the kitchen 
range. A few trays bent out of coarse wire netting and fitted like 
removable shelves into a lath frame form a very good and easily 
constructed rack. • 

d. Place in a cheesecloth bag and suspend in a warm, dry place — for 
instance, over the kitchen stove or in the open air; wind is 
helpful as a drying agent. This method is especially useful with 
herbs, such as celery leaves, thyme, sage, parsley, mint, and sweet 
marjoram. Tie the herbs in bunches, or place loosely in the bag 
and stir occasionally. 

e. String to form "necklaces" and suspend them over the kitchen 
stove, later in the attic. Various foods may be dried by this old- 
fashioned method, such as : 

Apples, cored and quartered or sliced Peppers 

Beans, string Quinces 

Okra Etc. 
Note: 

Instructor to plan work as follows: 

a. In June assign the pupils summer homework in drying foods by the various 
agetats listed above. 

b. In the fall, upon return to school, prepare an exhibition of these dried foods. 



FOOD ECONOMY 



13 



TIME-TABLE FOR DRYING FRUITS AND VEGETABLES BT ARTIFICIAL HEAT* 

(The time stated is approximate) 



Fbuit ob Vegetable 



Apples . . 
Apricots. 
Berries.. 
Cherries. 
Peaches. , 
Pears — 
Plums. . . 
Quinces.. 



Asparagus 

Beans, green string. . 
Beans, lima (young) . 

Beans, wax 

Beets 



Brussels sprouts 

Cabbage 

Carrots 

Cauliflower 

Celery 

Corn, sweet 

Herbs 

Leeks 

Okra 

Onions 

Parsnips 

Peas, garden (mature) 

Peas, sugar (young) 

Peppers'. 

Pumpkin 

Rhubarb 

Salsify, kohlrabi, and celeriac. 

Spinach 

Squash, summer 

Swiss chard 

Tomatoes 



Blanching 
Time 



Minutes 



5-10 
G-10 
5-10 
6-10 
Until skin 
cracks 

6 

- 10 

6 

6 

3 

5-10 

4-6 

5 

3 

5 

6 

3-5 
6 



3 

6 

4-6 

3 

3 

To loosen 

skin 



Dbtino 
Time 



Hours 

4-6 
4^6 
4-5 
2-4 
4-6 
4-6 
4-6 
4-* 

4-8 
2-3 
3-3H 
2-3 

3-3J4 
3 
2J^-3 

3-3H 

3-4 

3-4 
3 
2>*-3 

2-3 
V/r* 

3-3H 
3-3H 



3-4 



2H-3 
3 

3-4 
3-4 



Temperature 
(Gradually 
increasing) 



Decrees 
Fahrenheit 

110-150 

110-150 

110-140 

110-150 

110-150 

110-150 

110-150 

110-150 

110-140 
110-145 
110-145 
110-145 
110-150 

110-145 
110-145 
110-150 
110-145 
110-140 
110-145 
110-145 
110-140 
110-140 
110-140 
110-150 
110-145 
110-145 
110-140 
110-140 
110-145 
110-150 
110-145 
110-140 
110-140 

110-145 



* Adapted from time-table, page 11, Home Drying Manual for Vegetables and Fruits, published by the National 
Emergency Pood Garden Commission. 

1. Compare dried foods with canned foods as to time required, also labor and 
storage-room. 

2. Is artificial heat used in the commercial drying of fish, meats, milk, eggs, etc.? 
If so, secure data as to time and temperature. 



14 LESSONS IN COOKERY 

DRYING FRUITS AND VEGETABLES IN THE HOME 

Method: 

1. Select perfectly fresh, sound foods, and those of good flavor; vegetables to 
be young and tender. 

2. Clean the foods thoroughly. 

3. As a general rule, remove the skins from fruits and vegetables, then cut 
into shreds or thin slices; y%-\4!* is a fair thickness for most vegetables. 

Most fruits and vegetables are too large to dry quickly whole, and the skin- 
needs to be broken or removed so as to permit evaporation. Root vegetables 
should be pared before being sliced; a machine is available for paring potatoes. 
Use any of the following utensils for shredding and slicing: 
Knife, sharp, long-bladed 
Shears 

Meat-grinder 

Kraut-slicer, good for such large vegetables as cabbage and potatoes 
Rotary hand slicer, useful with many foods 

4. Blanch the vegetables; fruits are blanched only in a few rare instances. To 
blanch vegetables, place in a cheesecloth bag or a wire basket and plunge them into 
boiling water for a short time; time varies, according to the vegetable, from 3 to 
10 minutes. (See time-table.) Spinach and other greens are blanched in steam. 

6. Cold-dip the vegetable; that is, plunge it into cold water for an instant. 

6. Drain well and remove surface moisture with a dry cloth or towel. 

7. Spread in a thin layer on any of the following " trays' ' : 

Platters or granite plates (these are often good for berries and cherries) 

Shallow trays 

Sheets of paper or muslin (for sun drying) 

Frame, made of heavy pasteboard, sections of boxes, etc. 

Rustless mesh screening, held in place by a few laths 

Etc. 

8. Cover, as a means of cleanliness, with one of the following: 

White mosquito netting 
Coarse cheesecloth 
Fine wire screening 

9. Dry the food by artificial heat, sunshine, or air blast; stir or turn often so 
as to obtain a uniform product. 

10. Pack the food when thoroughly dry; fruit should be leathery and pliable. 
Use any of the following moisture-proof containers : 

Tin cans with tight covers (these are probably the best containers) 

Glass jars 

Paraffin-paper cartons 

Pasteboard boxes with tight covers 

Strong paper bags 
Small containers are desirable. Why? 
Label the containers, and store in a place which is cool, dry, and well ventilated. 



FOOD ECONOMY 15 

11. Test or "condition" the dried product; that is, pour it from one box to 
another once a day for the first 3 or 4 days after packing; this makes it uniform. 
If the product is too moist, return it to drier. 

Notes: 

1. One bulletin states that the blanching and cold-dipping of vegetables are not strictly 
essential. 

2. Sweet corn is cut from the cob after blanching. 

3. Cut carrots in fancy shapes, dry, and use as a soup garnish. Vegetables for soup 
mixtures — carrots, cabbage, onions, celery, potatoes, and okra — are dried separately and 
mixed as desired. 

4. A good way to dry strawberries or cherries is to sprinkle them with sugar and dry in 
the oven, with the door ajar. Dried cherries, raspberries, and strawberries may be substi- 
tuted for raisins in puddings and other dishes; dried huckleberries are a good substitute for 
currants. 

5. To prepare raisins,. dip bunches of Malaga grapes for an instant in boiling water, 
then spread on straw and dry in the sun, 

6. Apples, pears, and quinces may be pared, cored, and cut into eighths, or cored and 
sliced in rings. 

7. Do not let fruits stand long before drying, as they discolor quickly. If light-colored 
products are desired, dip the sliced fruits for 1 min. in cold water containing 2 1. salt to 
each qt. water. 

8. For further suggestions as to specific vegetables and fruits, see any of the government 
bulletins. 



Tomato Paste 

(A special recipe for dried tomatoes) 
Method: 

1. Wash tomatoes and cut out the stem ends. 

2. Slice, place a layer in a basket or granite colander, and sprinkle with a hand- 
ful of salt; repeat, putting in layers of tomatoes and salt. 

3. Set the basket or colander in the sink or over a pan or crock, and let stand 
over night, or until much water has been extracted and drained off. 

4. In the morning cook the tomatoes 10-30 min., or until reduced to a very soft 
pulp; stir occasionally. 

6. Press the pulp through a sieve by means of the hands or a spoon, leaving 
only the skins and seeds in the sieve; discard the skins and seeds. 

6. Cook the pulp until as thick as a drop batter and until the spoon 
leaves a track as it is drawn through the batter; stir the mixture constantly 
toward the last. 

7. Spread on platters, cover with cheesecloth, and dry for a few days in the 
sun or in a warming oven until as thick as butter. 

8. Pack in an earthen crock; then to prevent molding cover first with a thin 
layer of olive oil and then with cheesecloth or oiled paper; place an earthen coyer 
or a plate over the whole. 



16 LESSONS IN COOKERY 

Notes: 

1. If desired, various seasonings may be stirred into the paste before it is placed in the 
crock: 

Paprika Chopped red peppers 

Olive oil Etc. 

If preferred, mix equal parts of tomatoes and chopped red peppers, and then follow 
steps 1-8; such a paste is especially good with macaroni. 

2. It is often convenient to roll the paste into round flat cakes, rub each with olive oil 
then place in a crock and cover with cheesecloth. Remove one cake at a time from crock, 
as required for use. 

3. If preferred, omit the final stage of drying. In other words, place the paste in air- 
tight glass jars at the end of step 6; omit the last two steps. 

4. Tomato paste is very strong, and a little of it seasons a large quantity of food* 
Use as a seasoning in various dishes, such as the following: 

Soups (such as tomato soup) 

Sauces (such as tomato sauce for macaroni) 

Various other dishes (such as those in the complete-dish series) 

Dried Pumpkin 

Method: 

1. Cut pumpkin in halves or quarters and boil until tender. 

2. Scoop out pulp, spread on trays, and dry in warming oven. 

Note: 

Two oz. of dried pumpkin are sufficient for one pie. 



PRESERVATION BY MOIST HEAT— THE CANNING OF FOODS 

To sterilize canned foods, it is necessary to kill all bacteria, yeasts, molds, and 
spores in them. 

ONE-PERIOD COLD-PACK METHOD OF CANNING 

This is the most up-to-date method of canning, and usually the quickest and 
the least work. It is successful with nearly all, if not all foods— meats, fish, vege- 
tables, fruits, and soups. But such foods should be boiled before serving. (See 
important Note 2, page 24.) 

One of the values of this cold-pack method lies in the fact that the delicate 
flavor of foods is retained. The time required varies according to the food 
and the temperature used. The hot dip (scalding or blanching) and the cold 
dip, the characteristic features of the cold-pack method, are not used as a rule 
in the hot-pack or open-kettle method of canning. 

FOUR TYPES OF HOME-CANNING APPARATUS FOR USE WITH THE 
COLD-PACK METHOD 

I. Hot-water bath outfit at 21& F., or 100° C. 

This is the type that is used ordinarily in the home or school. It consists of 
a large utensil (for instance, a wash boiler or lard can) with a tight cover and a 
false bottom to permit circulation of water and to prevent breaking of cans. 

II. Water-seal outfit. 

This allows a temperature a little above 212° F., or 100° C. 

III. Steam-pressure canner. 

This type permits 5 lb. or more steam pressure, with a temperature ranging 
from 228° F., or 109° C, upward. 

IV. Pressure cooker. 

This permits 10 lb. or more steam pressure. It is usually made of alumi- 
num, and is much used for general cooking, as with pot roasts and beans. Steam 
under 15 lb. pressure readily and rapidly destroys all bacteria and spores in 
canned vegetables and meat. 

Notes: 

1. The four types of apparatus outlined are arranged in sequence according to 
the temperature and the consequent time required. For example, the hot-water bath 
outfit makes use of the lowest temperature and hence requires the longest time. The 
pressure cooker makes use of the highest temperature and hence requires the least time. 

2. Various appliances of each of these types are on the market; they are large or small 
according to whether they are to be used for commercial or for home purposes. 

17 



18 



LESSONS IN COOKERY 



TIME-TABLE FOR SCALDING, BLANCHING, AND STERILIZING FOODS BY THE 
ONE-PERIOD COLD-PACK METHOD* 

(Time given in minutes) • 



Products by Groups 



Scald 

or 
Blanch 



Hot- 
Water 

Bath 

Outfit 

at 212° F. 



Water- 
Seal 
Outfit 
at 214° F. 



Steam 
Pressure, 
5 to 10 LB. 



Pressure 

Cooker, 

10 to 15 LB. 



SPECIAL VEGETABLES f 

Corn,- sweet 

Peppers, sweet 

Pumpkin 

Tomatoes 



POD VEGETABLES AND OTHER 
GREEN PRODUCTS f 

Beans, wax 

Brussels sprouts 

Cabbage 

Cauliflower 

Okra 



ROOT AND TUBER VEGETABLES 

Beets , 

Carrots 

Parsnips 

Potatoes, sweet 

Salsify 

Turnips 

Other roots and tubers 



COMBINATIONS AND SOUP 
VEGETABLES f 

Lima beans 

Peas 

Vegetable combinations 

GREENS f 

Asparagus 

Beet tops 

Cress, upland 

Dandelion, cultivated 

Endive, French 

Kale 

Spinach 

Swiss chard 



SOFT FRUITS AND BERRIES 

Apricots 

Blackberries 

Cherries 

Citrous fruits 

Currants 

Figs 

Gooseberries 

Grapes. . . . . . '. 

Huckleberries. 

Peaches 

Plums 

Raspberries. 

Strawberries 

Fruits without sugar simp 



5 
5 
3 

IK 



5-10 
6-10 
5-10 
3 
5-10 

5 
5 
5 
5 
5 
5 
5 



5-10 
5-10 
5-10 

15 
15 
15 
15 
15 
15 
15 
15 

1-2 



1-2 

i-2 
1-2 



1-2 



180 
90 

120 
22 



120 
120 
120 
60 
120 

00 
00 
00 
00 
00 
90 
90 



180 
180 
120 

120 
120 
120 
120 
120 
120 
120 
120 

16 
16 
16 
12 
16 
16 
16 
16 
16 
16 
16 
16 
16 
30 



120 

75 
90 
18 



90 
90 
90 
40 
90 

80 
80 
80 
80 
80 
80 
80 



120 
120 
120 

90 
90 
90 
90 
90 
90 
90 
90 

12 
12 
12 
8 
12 
12 
12 
12 
12 
12 
12 
12 
12 
20 



90 
60 
60 
15 



60 
60 
60 
30 
60 

60 
60 
60 
60 
60 
60 
60 



60 
60 
60 

60 
60 
60 
60 
60 
60 
60 
60 

10 
10 
10 
6 
10 
10 
10 
10 
10 
10 
10 
10 
10 
12 



60 
40 
40 
10 



40 
40 

40 
20 
40 

40 
40 
40 
40 
40 
40 
40 



40 
40 
45 

40 
40 
40 
40 
40 
40 
40 
40 

5 
5 
5 
4 
5 
5 
5 
5 
5 
5 
5 
5 
5 
10 



• Compiled from the time-table, pp. 29-31, Farmers' Bulletin 839 
One-Period Cold-PackMethod," by O. H. Benson. 



S. Dept. Agri., "Home Canning by the 
fThe author of Food Economy recommends that southerners make a careful study of Food Economy, page 24. 



FOOD ECONOMY 



19 



TIME-TABLE FOR SCALDING, BLANCHING, AND STERILIZING FOODS BY THE 
ONE-PERIOD COLD-PACK METHOD— Continued 



Products by Groups 



Scald 

or 
Blanch 



Hot- 

Water- 

Bath 

Outfit 

at 212° P. 



Water- 

Sbal 

Outfit 

at 214° P. 



Steam 
Pressure, 
5 to 10 LB. 



Pressure 

Cooker, 

10 to 15 LB. 



HARD FRUITS 

Apples 

Pears 

Quinces 

Apple sirup 

Fruit juices 

Preserves, after preparing and filling 

UNCOOKED MEATS 

Beef 

Corned beef '. 

Poultry and game 



IX 
IX 
IX 



PREPARED YOUNG MEATS 

Baked meats 

Fried meats 

Roast meats 

Stewed meats 

Spring fries 



Fish (vertebrate) . 
Shellfish 



FISH 



SOUPS 

Cream of tomato soup 

All other soup combinations and 
soup stock 



20 
20 
20 
15 
15 
20 

180 
180 
180 

90 
90 
90 
90 
90 

180 
180 

30 
90 



12 
12 
12 
10 
10 
15 

180 

180 . 
180 

60 
60 
60 
60 
60 

160 
160 

20 
75 



8 
8 
8 
8 
8 
10 

120 
120 
120 

40 
40 
40 
40 
40 

120 
120 

18 
60 



6 
6 
6 
5 
5 



60- 
60 
60 

30 
30 
30 
30 
30 

90 
90 

10 
45 



Notes: 

1. All vegetables, meats, and other food products used in the soup combinations should 
be prepared and treated prior to sterilization in the same way as when canned separately, 
and then mixed, packed, and thoroughly sterilized. 

2. The time schedule is based upon the one-quart pack and upon fresh products at 
altitudes up to 1,000 feet. For higher altitudes increase the time 10 per cent for each addi- 
tional 500 feet. 

3. When processing fruits in steam-pressure canners, do not use over 5 lb. steam pressure; 
when processing vegetables, do not use over 15 lb. pressure. 

STEPS IN ONE-PERIOD COLD-PACK METHOD OF CANNING 

To temper cans, place them in the canner when the water is put on to heat, 
and let stand in the water 5-15 min. after it begins to boil; if preferred, temper 
the cans in some other utensil, such as a dishpan. 

1. Select sound products free ifrom injury and disease. Fruits and vegetables 
should be freshly picked. 

2. Clean thoroughly, and grade for size, color, and degree of ripeness. 

3. Scald or blanch fruits or vegetables the length of time specified ih time- 
table. All greens and other vegetables are blanched, but certain soft fruits are 
neither scalded nor blanched. Blanching (a longer process than scalding) consists 



20 LESSONS IN COOKERY 

in cooking the food for a short time in boiling water or steam. All greens are 
blanched in steam. 

When products are plunged into boiling water, the water will stop boiling; do 
not count time until the water again begins to boil or "jump." The products 
may be placed in a frying or other wire basket, or in a piece of cheesecloth (about 
one yard square) the alternate corners of which are tied to form handles. 

4. Dip in cold water for about 30 sec. only. (Cold-dipping is omitted in the 
case of certain soft fruits.) 

5. Prepare for packing in cans. (For special directions, see government bulle- 
tins; for example, Farmers 9 Bulletin 889, U. S. Dept. Agri.) 

6. Pack quickly in hot, tempered cans; pack products of the same size and 
degree of ripeness in the same can. Pack all products as tight as possible; see 
exceptions in Note 1, page 21. 

7. Add boiling liquid — water, sirup, or brine — as indicated. Since tomatoes 
are 94 per cent water, it is well to use tomato juice instead of water in the pack. 
All fruits can be canned successfully in water as well as in sirup. Do not fill cans 
full of liquid or solid; leave space of %-% of an inch at top for expansion and 
vacuum, depending upon nature of product. 

8. Add 1 t. salt to each quart of vegetables. 

9. Seal the cans as follows: 

a. Glass-top can: Place rubber and top in position and partially seal, 
tightening the side wire but not the top wire. 

b. Screw-top can, such as Mason: Place rubber and top in position, then 
screw down top until it catches but is not tight. Do not try to force 
the top. A good way is to screw the cover tight, then turn back one 
quarter circle. Avoid sealing tight either a Mason or a glass-top can. 

c. Self -sealing can, such as Economy: Seal tight, placing the top and 
clamp spring in position as tight as possible. Caution: Do not boil 
the cover beforehand in water. 

d. Tin can: Cap and tip. 

10. Sterilize in the canning outfit for the length of time specified in the table. 
These precautions apply particularly to work with the hot-water bath outfit: 

a. Support the cans on a perforated platform to permit the circulation 
of water under and around the jars. 

b. Be sure that all cans are covered by at least. an inch of water; as a 
rule this necessitates filling the canner %-% full of water. The cans 
are almost sure to leak if they are not kept covered with water. Why? 

c. Put canner cover on tight. 

d. Do not begin to count time until water is boiling (jumping). 

11. Remove the cans from the outfit; tighten the covers at once if using types 
of cans which require tightening; immediate sealing of the cans is essential. 

12. Invert to cool and to test the joints. (Do not invert or tip self-sealing cans.) 
If rubber or top is defective, replace with a new one at once, return can to 

canner, and sterilize 5 min. longer. 



FOOD ECONOMY 21 

13. Label cans, and store in a cool place; wrap glass cans in paper to prevent 
bleaching. 

Notes: 

1. Breakage, Avoid the breakage of glass cans by observing the following precautions: 

a. • Do not fill any can quite full. The following vegetables swell greatly when 

heated in water, hence should not be packed very tight in the cans: corn, 
pumpkin, peas, lima beans, and sweet potatoes. Why do they expand 
more than most other foods? 

b. Do not place cold cans in hot water, or vice versa. Perform steps 6-10 of 
the canning method with speed, in order that the cans may not cool. Place 
the cans in the sterilizer just as soon as they are filled with hot liquid. 

c. Avoid wire clamps that are too tight, or the glass top may crack during 
sterilization or when the side wire is forced down. 

d. Avoid having too much water in the steam canner; the water should not 
come above the platform. 

e. Do not allow drafts to strike the cans when they are removed from sterilizer. 

2. Cans. All good cans have wide necks. 
Good glass-topped cans have tight clamps. 

The covers of Mason jars should display no nicks. 

All types of cans, including the Economy (a self -sealer), will endure any temperature, 
even that of the cooker under 15 lb. pressure. 

Tin cans are practical in the home and school; even sixth-graders can manage them. 
An average price for one empty quart can is $0.05-$0.07. Each tin can is usable but 
once, hence glass cans are more economical for use by the average housekeeper. 

Note the method for the use of the tin can: 

a. Fill can, solder on cap, exhaust the air, then close the tiny hole in the cap. 

b. Cook the food in the can. 

3. Rubbers. Good rubbers are essential. It is poor economy to use last year's rubbers 
or to buy a cheap grade; the best are comparatively inexpensive. 

A good rubber — one that is soft and elastic, not hard — does not snap when treated 
as follows: 

a. Squeeze tightly in hand. 

b. Bend back on itself, first one way and then the other, as in breaking wire. 
Rubbers should run eleven to the inch; otherwise they are too thin. Good rubbers 

stand 10 lb. steam pressure, hence rubber should be placed on can at the start and 
steamed as long as the food. 

4. Clamps or lifting forks. It is necessary to have clamps or lifting forks for placing 
the hot cans in the sterilizer and for removing them. In addition to various patent clamps 
on the market, many homemade devices are possible, such as the following: 

a. Buttonhook, useful with glass-topped jars; catch the wire of the jar with the 
buttonhook. 

b. Skimmer or pancake turner; bend the handle at right angles to the main 
part of the utensil. 

5. Sirups. There are many rules for sirups for use in canning; the richness of the 
sirup is a matter of individual taste. 

A typical recipe for use in canning is 3 c. water to 2 c. sugar. It is sometimes asserted 
that if the sugar is put on to cook in cold water the sirup will not crystallize. 



22 



LESSONS IN COOKERY 



Sirup 


Approximate 
Time for 
. Boiling ' 


Description 
of Sirup 


Thin 


5 min. 


Sugar is all dissolved, but the sirup 
is not sticky. 


Medium 


10 min. 


Sirup has begun to thicken and is 
sticky when cooled on the finger 
or a spoon. 


Thick 


15 min. 


Sirup piles up on the edge of spoon 
when one attempts to pour it. 


Very thick 


20 min. 


Sirup is hard to pour from the 
spoon, but has not gone to sugar. 



G. Class recipes for fruit. Use either the cold-pack or the hot-pack method. 

1 PT. JAR FRUIT, CANNED WITH A THIN SIRUP 1 PT. JAR FRUIT, CANNED WITH A RICHER SIRUP 

H c. sugar) „ ., ^ . J£-l c. sugar) _ M . ^ . , . 

1 c. water J Bo{L to S ether 2 min - i c . water J Bo11 to form a th,ck ump ' 

1 doz. plums or 3 peaches 1 doz. plums or 3 peaches 

Unfermented Grape Juice 

(Steps 6, 7, 8, and g bear a close resemblance to the cold-pack method of canning) 

Ingredients: 

2 qt. stemmed grapes (such as Concord grapes) ; pick over and wash before 

stemming 
1 qt. cold water 
1-4 tb. sugar to each pt. juice obtained (usually 2-3 tb.) 

Method- 

1. Crush grapes with a wooden mallet or spoon, then add water. 

2. Using a temperature considerably below the boiling point, cook the grapes 
J^ hr., or until the seeds separate from the pulp. The temperature should not 
exceed 165°-176° F., or 74°-80° C; by no means 200° F., or 150° C. To secure 
this temperature, use a double boiler or a low direct flame; the double-boiler 
method is probably the better. 

3. Drain over night in a jelly bag made of flannel or cheesecloth. Note the 
sediment which forms in the bowl of juice after standing. 

4. Pour off the clear top juice, and discard sediment, or use it in grape butter. 
6. Add the sugar, and heat in an acid-proof kettle up to 110° F., or 43° C. ; stir 

to dissolve the sugar. 

6. Using a glass or agate funnel, strain juice into hot sterilized bottles; fill only 
to within l r of the top, since liquids expand when heated. 

7. Place a new cork loosely in each bottle, then tie a small circle of cloth over 
the cork to keep it from blowing out later. The corks should have been treated 
as follows: soak J^ hr. in 1 qt. warm water containing 1 1. soda, then dip into boil- 
ing water just before inserting in the bottles. 

8. Set bottles (on a false bottom) in boiling water level with the juice, cover 
tight, and heat 40 min. at 165° F., or 74° C. 



FOOD ECONOMY 



23 



9. Remove bottles and immediately drive the corks in tight. 

10. Place neck of each bottle on edge of table and with a sharp knife cut cork 
off even with the top of bottle, then turn the bottle upside down and dip V of 
neck into melted wax or paraffin. Store in a cool, dark, dry place. 

Notts: 

1. Use this method in preserving other fruit juices. 

2. With this process hot-water heat is used so as to insure a low temperature. Fruit 
juices as a rule will not stand so much cooking as fruits nor so high a temperature during 
sterilization without destroying the natural fruit flavor. 

3. Fruit cans may be substituted for bottles as containers for fruit juices. 

4. With some fruits it is possible to substitute the following cold process, which is 
sometimes more convenient, for the hot process in steps 1> 2, and 3: 

a. Crush the fruit by means of a potato-masher, food-chopper, or fruit-juice press. 
(Use a cider mill in dealing with large quantities.) 

b. Place in a bag and press or twist so as to extract the juice. 

5. A good plan for a class exercise is as follows, using lj£-2 c. stemmed Concord grapes: 

a. Prepare grape juice from the first extraction; fill a small (4-6 oz.) bottle. 

b. Prepare grape jelly or butter from the second and third extractions. 

Vegetable Seasoning Mixture 

(Hot-pack or open-kettle method of canning) 

Ingredients: (The large recipe yields about 8 pU; the class recipe half fills a jelly jar) 

yi c. 8 lb. ripe tomatoes, scalded, peeled, and sliced 

1 h. tb. 4-5 inedium carrots, cut in %" dice or ground in food-grinder 

Vegetables, chopped or ground: 

It. # bunch parsley 

1 h. tb. 1 qt. onions 

1 h. tb. 1 small head cabbage 

1 tb. 3 stalks celery 

1 tb. corn 4 ears green corn, cooked 10 min. in simmering water, then cut from the 

cob; scrape cob 

2 peppercorns 1 tb. (scant) peppercorns 
Kt. desalt 

yi-\ c. water 

Method: 

1. Mix all the ingredients together, cover, and simmer 2 hr. ; stir occasionally. 

2. Seal air-tight in hot sterilized glass cans; it is well to dip the tops of cans in 
paraffin after sealing. 

Notts: 

1. Measure the ingredients for the class recipe after grinding or chopping. 

2. Use the mixture for seasoning any stock soup, such as that made from soup cubes; 
1 1. of the mixture will season 1 c. stock. The mixture may also be used as a seasoning for 
sauces, hash, stews, etc. 

3. By the substitution of canned tomatoes and corn for the fresh vegetables, this 
mixture can be prepared at any season of the year. 

4. If preferred, substitute the cold-pack for the hot-pack method. 



24 LESSONS IN COOKERY 

SYNOPSIS OF CANNING 
A. The Two Methods of Canning Foods 
J. Cold-pack or far method. 

This consists in cooking the food in the jars or cans. 

The one-period cold pack is the chief jar method recommended to-day by 
United States government authorities. Intermittent. sterilization, or sterilization 
at 212° F., or 100° C, for a short time (45-60 min.) on each of three successive 
days, has been used to some extent; but it is needless work, at least for most foods. 

There seems to be some difference of opinion among authorities as to the advisa- 
bility of using the one-period cold-pack method with certain vegetables, that is, 
when the hbt-water bath outfit is used. At least two bulletins 1 recommend the 
intermittent method, and not the one-period cold pack, for corn, lima beans, and 
peas. The intermittent method is sometimes recommended also for greens, aspar- 
agus, string beans, okra, and concentrated soup mixtures. Southern housekeepers 
using the hot-water canner in work with corn, peas, etc., are advised to follow 
the two bulletins named in the footnote. Farmers* Bulletin 858 was written 
especially for the southern states. 

Observe the following precautions concerning the one-period cold-pack method 
of canning and the use of its products' 

1. Follow the canning directions very carefully, or the food may spoil; food 
spoilage means an economic loss. 

2. Avoid any possible danger of food poisoning by observing these rules: 

a. Discard the food if it shows any signs of decay, such as a slimy 
appearance or a disagreeable odor. 

b. Do not serve home-canned vegetables cold, as in salads; this applies 
particularly to corn, lima or string beans, and peas. Boil the foods 
for two minutes, at least, before serving; boiling destroys any toxins 
which may have been formed in the cans. 

//. Hot-pack or open-kettle method. 

Generally speaking, this is the old-fashioned method of canning. It is now 
much less used because the shape of food is likely to be lost, and because incom- 
plete sterilization is likely to result except in the case of certain acid foods, such 
as tomatoes and fruits. 

The hot-pack method will doubtless always be used to a certain extent by the 
housekeeper, since it is often a convenience, especially in dealing with a small 
quantity of food, or with recipes in which evaporation is an important factor. 

B. Two Groups of Foods for Canning 

1. Acid foods, such as tomatoes and fruits. (Acid is antiseptic, hence foods 
of this group are easier to preserve.) 

Preserve by a one-period sterilization at 212° F., or 100° C; use either the 
cold-pack or the hot-pack method. 

2. Non-acid foods, such as meats and most vegetables. 

Preserve by the cold-pack method; the hot-pack method never should be used. 

1 Circular No. A-81 t by Miss Mary E. Creswell and Miss Ola Powell, of the States Relations 
Service, U. S. Dept. Agri.; Farmers* Bulletin 853, U. S. Dept. of Agri., "Home Canning of 
Fruits and Vegetables," by Creswell and Powell. 



PRESERVATION OF FOODS BY ACID OR 'SALT, IN SOME CASES WITH 
MOIST HEAT, SUGAR, AND SPICE 

CANNING PICKLES BY THE HOT-PACK OR OPEN-KETTLE METHOD 



Ingredients: 
3 or 4 peaches 
or pears 



1 c. vinegar+l 
H c. water | 
lc. 



small piece 
20 



Sweet Pickles 

(The class recipe fills a one-pint jar) 
Fruit or vegetable : use one kind or any suitable combination of the following : 

Figs, dried 
Figs, fresh 
Peaches 

Pears, such as seckel 
Tomatoes, small green, fig, or plum 
Watermelon rind 
Etc. 



Apples, crab 
Apples, sweet 
Apricots, fresh 
Cantaloupe rind 
Carrot, young 
Chayote (see Note 2) 
Citron melon 
Cucumbers, ripe 
(deep orange) 
Thin sirup, formed by boiling together the following: 

6 c. vinegar 

4 c. sugar — one of the following : 

Dark brown (preferable) 

Light brown 

White (least desirable) 
Spice to taste: 

Stick cinnamon 

Whole mace 

Whole cloves 



Method: 

1. Prepare the fruit or vegetable as follows: 

a. Leave whole or cut in halves, quarters, or slices. Pare or not, as 
preferred. 

b. If very hard, steam until almost tender. Steam dried figs until they 
are plump. 

c. Dip peaches in boiling water, drain, and remove "fur" by rub- 
bing with a soft cloth. Stick four or five cloves into each peach or 
pear. 

2. Add the fruit or vegetable to the sirup, boil until tender and " clear,' ' then 
remove from sirup and place in clean hot glass jars." 

3. Boil sirup until very thick, pour over pickles so as to fill the jars, then seal. 

4. Wrap in paper to prevent bleaching, and store. 

25 



26 LESSONS IN COOKERY 

Notu: 

1. Steps 2 and 8 are the hot-pack or open-kettle method; if preferred, use the 
cold-pack method. 

2. The chayote is a pear-shaped vegetable. Slice the chayotes, cure 3-5 days in brine, 
then freshen and proceed in somewhat the same way as for other sweet pickles. 1 

3. Spiced fruits are a form of sweet pickle very similar to the recipe on page 25; 
as a rule they are made from the smaller and softer fruits, such as the following: 

Cherries Grapes 

Currants Plums (such as damson) 

Gooseberries Etc. 

4. Avoid aluminum or other metal ware in pickling or other work with acids. 

5. Note that a "relish" of some kind, such as pickles, olives, celery, or jelly, is an 
important part of the average dinner or luncheon. 

Canned Sweet Peppers 

(Method similar to that for sweet pickles) 
Method: 

1. Wash large sweet peppers, red, yellow, or green; use singly, or in any com- 
bination of color. 

2. Cut a slice from each stem-end and remove seeds. 

3. Cutting around and around with the scissors, cut each pepper into long 
strips Vi^Yl wide; keep the strips as long as desired. 

4. Cover with boiling water and let stand 3 min. 

5. Drain, and plunge into very cold water, preferably ice water. 

6. Drain, and pack solid in pint jars. ' 

7. To every qt. vinegar add 2 c. sugar, bring mixture to boiling point, and 
boil 15 min. 

8. Fill jars to overflowing with the sirup, seal, and keep in a cool place. 

Notts: 

1. These peppers keep well and, chopped or not, are useful in various ways; for example: 

As garnish for meats and other foods 
In salads and entries 

In filling for cream cheese and other sandwiches 
Sweet peppers for use in salads are often more desirable if canned whole. 

2. Can hot peppers of any color in the same way. 

3. It is well to do all cutting of even the sweet peppers under water. 

4. It is asserted, but not proved, that the more points the milder — that green peppers 
with four points are sweet, that those with fewer than four points are hot. 

5. A class recipe for a pint jar of peppers is as follows: 

3-4 peppers 
y z -y 2 c. sugar 
1 c. vinegar 
}i c. water 

1 See pp. 223-224, Successful Canning and Preserving, by Miss Ola Powell. 



FOOD ECONOMY 



27 



Ingredients: 
lc. 
#c. 
to cover 

He. 

1 slice 

a mixture of ^ 
c. vinegar 
and y£ c. 
water; use 2 
tb. of mixt- 
ure for the 
paste 

2tb. 

l#tb. 

l#t. 

to color 



Mixed Mustard Pickles 

(The class recipe just fills one pint jar) 
1)4 qt. cucumbers, l r -2 r long 
1 qt. small onions 

Brine (K c. coarse salt to 1 qt. water) for soaking cucumbers and onions 
1 qt. green tomatoes, sliced 
\yi heads cauliflower divided into "flowers" 
3 red peppers, shredded 
\y£ qt. strong cider vinegar 



1 c. light brown sugar 

J<c. flour 

5 tb. dry mustard 

Turmeric powder (for coloring pickles a light yellow) 



Method: 

1. Prepare vegetables in the following manner: 

a. Wash cucumbers, and let stand over night in cold brine to cover. 

b. Peel onions under cold water, cover with boiling brine, and let stand 
in a cool place over night. 

c. Pour boiling water over sliced tomatoes and let stand J^ hr. 

d. Steam or boil the cauliflower 10 min. 

2. Add all the vegetables except the tomatoes to the vinegar, cover, and boil 
10 min., or until almost tender. 

3. Add tomatoes, cover, and boil 5 min. longer, or until tomatoes are tender; 
avoid cooking the tomatoes to a pulp. 

4. Drain off vinegar, and pack vegetables in hot jars. 

5. Mix sugar, flour, mustard, and a little cold vinegar to form a smooth paste. 

6. Add paste to hot vinegar and boil 2-3 min., or until as thick as thick cream. 

7. Mix turmeric powder with enough cold water to make a thin paste. 

8. Add turmeric paste to vinegar mixture, pour over vegetables, and seal. 

Note: 

Measure the vegetables for the class recipe after preparing the vegetables. 



Pepper Relish 

Method; 

1. Chop very fine 1 doz. each of onions, green peppers, and red peppers. 

2. Mix well, cover with boiling water, let stand 5 min., then drain. 

3. Add 3 tb. salt, 2 c. sugar, and 2 c. vinegar. 

4. Boil 5 min., and can in sterile jars. 



28 LESSONS IN COOKERY 

SYNOPSIS OF PRESERVATION OF FOODS BY ACID 
Five Methods of Pickling 

/. Preservation by vinegar and heat. 

This group includes many recipes for pickles, such as sweet pickles and mustard 
pickles. In some recipes spice, brine, and sugar are additional preserving agents. 
The hot-pack method of canning is customary with such pickles, but the cold-pack 
method may be used, and doubtless will be used much in the future. 

77. Preservation by vinegar and spice: uncooked chili sauce and various other raw 

chopped relishes. 

In oil pickles, which also belong to this group, brine and oil are additional 
preserving agents; oil is a preservative in that it prevents the entrance of air. 

III. Preservation by vinegar. 

The following is a recipe for preserving green peppers; grated horseradish 
can also be preserved by vinegar. 

Method: 

1. Wash sweet green peppers; do not remove stems or seeds. 

2. Place in a crock and cover with cold vinegar. 

Note: 

The peppers will keep for months; slice and serve in salads. 

IV. Preservation by natural fruit acids. 

Method: 

1. Wash fruit carefully. Cut rhubarb into 2"-3" lengths, if desired. 

2. Place in a strainer and rinse with boiling water. 

3. Drain, pack in jars, and let cold water from the faucet run into jars until 
the air bubbles are all expelled. 

4. After filling the jars with cold water, add rubber and cover, and seal air-tight. 

Notes: 

1. The foregoing is a practical method only with products having a very high percent- 
age of acid, such as rhubarb, cranberries, and green gooseberries; blueberries and lemons 
also are sometimes preserved by this method. Lemons will keep for one month in an 
uncovered crock if the water is frequently changed. 

2. It is safer to keep the skins of rhubarb and berries intact. 

V. Preservation by acid from fermentation (salt also a preservative in this process). 
Preserving by fermentation has been practiced for centuries. In Europe 

many fermented substances are common articles of food. It is an inexpensive and 
reliable method of preservation, and one too little utilized in some countries; in 
the United States, pickles and sauerkraut are the only common products of the 



FOOD ECONOMY 29 

fermented type. Following are some of the vegetables, 2tc., which can be fer- 
mented and kept indefinitely: 

Beans, string Chayotes 

Beets Cucumbers (dill pickles result) 

Cabbage (sauerkraut results) Onions 
Cauliflower ' Watermelon 

The processes used in fermenting the various vegetables are similar. 
The two methods, (a) fermentation and (6) salting (as given below), possess 
the following advantages: 

a. No sugar or fuel is required. 

b. Unusual containers, such as crocks and kegs, can be used; fruit cans 
are not required. 

PRESERVATION OF FOODS BY SALT 

Salting is an economical and safe method of preservation, and one too little 
practiced by most peoples. Salted vegetables are prepared to some extent in this 
country, but the method of salting is more commonly applied to meat and fish. 
A few recipes for the salting of vegetables follow. 

Salted Greens 

Method: 

1. Wash, drain, and weigh any kind of greens, such as one of the following 

varieties: 

Beet tops Kale 

Dandelion leaves Spinach 

2. Weigh out a quantity of fine salt equal to one-fourth of the weight of the 
greens. 

3. Pack the greens in a clean crock or other container in layers about 1" thick, 
and sprinkle each layer heavily with salt. 

4. Cover with a clean cloth and a round board, add a weight, and set aside. 

Notes: 

1. Parsley and string beans can be salted by this method. 

2. When ready to use them, soak the vegetables several hours in fresh water, then 
cook in the same way as fresh vegetables. 

3. Discuss the question of a possible loss of food value by this method of preserving 
vegetables. 

Salted Celery (Canned) 
Method: 

1. Boil salt and water to make a brine strong enough to float an egg. 

2. Cut celery in 2^-3" lengths, and pack in glass cans. 

3. Cover celery with cold brine, and seal. (Do not submit the celery to any 
cooking.) 



30 LESSONS IN COOKERY 

Salted Corn (Canned) 
Ingredients: 

9 c. green corn, secured as follows: 

a. Place fresh corn-on-the-cob in boiling water to cover, and boil 3 min. 
so as to set the juice or milk of the corn. 

b. Cut from the cob, then scrape cob. 
1 c. salt 

Kc sugar 
yi c. water 

Method: 

Mix all the ingredients, bring to the boiling point, and can. 

NoU$: 

1. The method is an example of hot-pack canning. 

2. Moist heat, as well as salt, is a preserving agent in this method. 

3. Perfect jars and covers and new rubbers are essential. 

4. When the jars are opened, freshen the corn by soaking it 4-12 hr. in cold water to 
cover; change the water two or three times. The length of time for soaking depends upon 
the kind of recipe in which the corn is to be used. 



PRESERVATION OF FOODS BY A LARGE QUANTITY OF SUGAR, 
MOIST HEAT, AND IN SOME CASES SPICE 

MARMALADES PREPARED BY THE HOT-PACK OR OPEN-KETTLE METHOD 

J. Two types of marmalades. 

1. Marmalade prepared by the three following methods from but one variety 
of fruit: 

a. Fruit cut in small cubes or slices. 

b. Fruit mashed and skins and seeds removed; mixture called fruit 
butter. 

c. Fruit mashed and skins and seeds retained; mixture called jam. 
This may be cooked into a soft or stiff butter, as preferred. 

Fruit butters and jams are occasionally made from a combination of fruits. 

2. Marmalade prepared from a combination of two or more varieties of fruit, 
with the addition of nuts or spice if desired; this is termed conserve. The fruit 
is either cut in small cubes or slices or chopped. Nuts, when used, should be 
added 5 min. before the conserve is removed from the fire. A great number of 
conserves can be prepared. 

II. Two possible methods for cooking all marmalades. 



ADVANTAGES 



DISADVANTAGES 



1. Quick method: 1 Cook 
very rapidly over a high flame ; 
this is the more approved 
method. 



Best flavor retained. 
Bright color retained. 



Constant care is essential, steady 
stirring usually being required. 



2. Slow method: Submit to Constant care not re- Dark color. (Some persons con- 



long, slow cooking; a fireless 
cooker is sometimes used. 



quired at first. As a 
rule, it is necessary to 
stir almost constantly 
after the sugar is 
added. Why? 



sider a dark rich color 
advantage.) 



an 



III. Miscellaneous suggestions for marmalades. 

1. All marmalades are made in the same general way. 

2. The usual rule is to use Yr z A lb. sugar to 1 lb. fruit. 

3. Cook all types of marmalade to the jelly stage; see jelly tests, page 38, 
step 8. The best marmalades have a jelly-like appearance after standing in jars, 
thus showing the presence of pectin in the fruit used. (See definition of pectin, 
page 35.) Citrous-fruit mixtures make very firm jelly if the white skin is retained. 

1 Recommended by Ola Powell, Successful Canning and Preserving, page 163. 

31 



32 LESSONS IN COOKERY 

4. When done, pour while still hot into clean hot jelly jars, and cover with 
paraffin when cold; sterilization of the empty jars is not essential, especially with 
marmalades prepared with the maximum amount of sugar. 

5. Marmalades are served in various ways, such as a sandwich filling or on 
toast, or with griddle cakes. Marmalades are often economical as a partial 
substitute for butter. 

6. If a sprinkling of salt is added to the fruit, much less sugar is required. 

IV. Economical marmalades. 

Fruit butter and jam are especially economical forms of marmalade. Why? 
The following kinds of marmalade may be made: 

Beet Orange (use all the rind) 

Grape Tomato, red or yellow 

Carrot and orange Pumpkin 

Carrot and sweet potato, equal parts Etc. 
Pupil to estimate cost per glass. 

Fruit Butter 

Ingredients: 

3 c. fruit pulp (see Note 2) 
2 c. sugar; white usually used 
Flavorings to taste: 

Ginger root (good with apples) 

Lemon juice and rind 

Spice, ground 
Water, little or none; use only enough to keep the mixture from scorching 

Method: 

Use either slow method or quick method, as preferred. If using the slow 
method, simmer all the ingredients together 1-3 hr., stirring often with a wooden 
spoon, until the following tests hold true: 

a. Mixture is as thick as a very stiff drop batter. 

b. A few drops stiffen quickly when cooled upon a plate. 

c. Mixture is waxy and "transparent." 

During the latter part of the cooking, when using the slow method, it is well 
to place an asbestos mat under the saucepan and to stir constantly. 

Notes: 

1. When cold, the mixture should be nearly of the consistency of dairy butter, but not 
quite so firm. 

2. Secure fruit pulp by rubbing cooked fruit through a sieve to remove the skins and 
seeds; prepare the cooked fruit from the following, used singly or in any combination: 

FRESH OR DRIED FRUITS FRESH FRUITS DRIED FRUITS 

Apples, such as crab Pears Grapes Dates 

Apricots Plums Guava Figs 

Cranberries Quinces Lemon Raisins 

Peaches Etc, Etc, Etc. 



FOOD ECONOMY 33 

3. Fruit butter is especially economical if the following are utilized: 

Pulp left from jelly making 

Soft and somewhat imperfect fruits 

Odds and ends of left-over fruit, fresh or cooked, such as apple sauce 

4. "Fruit paste," a wholesome confection, is made in much the same manner as fruit 
butter; use 1 lb. powdered sugar to 1 lb. fruit pulp. 

Carrot-Orange Conserve 

Ingredients: 

3 c. raw carrots] 

2 large oranges [ see Note 1 
1 large lemon J 

3 c. sugar 
yi c. water 

}i~l c. nuts, chopped (these may be omitted) 

Method: 

Use either slow method or quick method of cooking. If using the slow method, 
mix all the ingredients and simmer 13^-2 hr., according to the age of the carrots; 
stir constantly toward the last. 
Notes: 

1. Treat carrots and fruits as follows, using a fine blade of the food-grinder for all 
grinding: 

a. Carrots: Measure after washing, scraping, and grinding. 

b. Oranges and lemons: Grind the entire rind and pulp, but reject the seeds. 
Cut the fruit pulp in slices or cubes, if preferred. 

Young carrots are preferable to old ones. 

2. This recipe makes 3-3J^ c. of conserve. 

3. A good conserve results if apples are substituted for the carrots. 

4. If oranges, grapefruit, and other citrous fruits are used in any quantity for conserves, 
salads, etc., much time is saved by peeling them in the following manner: 

a. Scald the fruit 3-5 min. in steam or boiling water. 

b. Peel the fruit; the white skin is easily removed with the rest of the rind. 

Tomato-Raisin Conserve 

Ingredients: (The class recipe half fills one jelly glass) 



1 small tomato 
yi medium 

apple 
yi slice 
8 raisins 
4tb. 
1' 

7 cloves 
1 small piece 
K c. water 



yi pk. fresh ripe tomatoes, scalded and sliced 
4 tart apples, chopped 

4 lemons cut in X* cubes 

1 lb. raisins, chopped 

4 lb. granulated sugar 

6 four-inch sticks of cinnamon 

1 1. whole cloves 

Ginger-root 



34 



LESSONS IN COOKERY 



Method: 

1. Tie the cinnamon, cloves, and ginger-root in a bag. 

2. Mix all the ingredients except the sugar and boil until almost as thick as 
drop batter. 

3. Add the sugar, and boil 10-15 min., or until the jelly stage is reached and 
the spoon leaves a track behind it. 

4. Remove the bag of spices before sealing the can. 
Noles: 

1. Note that in this recipe, as well as in orange-plum conserve, the quick method is 
stated in preference to the slow method. 

2. By the use of 4 qt. canned tomatoes instead of the fresh tomatoes, the conserve can 
be made in the winter time. 

V. Suggested combinations for conserves. 

These conserves are, on the whole, more expensive than those given in sec- 
tion IV: 



Apple (sweet) and lemon or quince 
Apple and guava 

Apricot and loganberry or pineapple 
Barberry and spice (good with meats) 
Blackcap and cherry 



Orange, grapefruit, and lemon 
Orange and apple or kumquat 
Orange, lemon, and prune or plum 
Peach and blackberry 
Peach, lemon, and orange or currant 



Ingredient* 

6 blue plums 
6 meats 

1 h. tb. 
4 meats 
H orange 
skin of % 
orange 



Orange-Plum Conserve 1 

(The class recipe fills one jelly jar) 
6 lb. blue or other plums measured after plums are halved and pits removed 
"Meats" of plum pits, chopped 
4 lb. granulated sugar 
2 lb. seeded raisins, chopped 
y$ lb. English walnut or pecan meats, chopped 
Juice and pulp of one orange 
Skins of four oranges, chopped and parboiled 15-20 min. 

Just enough water to keep mixture from scorching 



Method- 

1. Swell the raisins by soaking them 1-2 min. in water just below boiling point. 

2. Drain raisins, mix with all other ingredients except the sugar and nuts, and 
boil 20 min. 

3. Add sugar and nuts and, stirring often, boil 5-10 min., or until the spoon 
leaves a track behind it and the liquid portion responds to the jelly tests. Avoid 
cooking the plums to a pulp; keep in halves as nearly as possible. 



Notes: 



1. Fruit that is overripe should not be used. 

2. The skins of the plums enrich the color of the conserve. 
I Contributed by Letitia Snively. 



FOOD ECONOMY 35 

Preserved Strawberries 

(Cold-process) 
Method: 

1. Cut strawberries in halves or mash to a fine or coarse pulp. 

2. Mix thoroughly with an equal weight of sugar, then let stand 24 hr. or a 
little longer; the sugar should be completely dissolved. Stir three or four times 
during the time allowed. 

3. Seal air-tight in sterilized jars and keep in a cool place. 

Notes: 

1. Blackberries, peaches, or any other fruit that can be mashed to a pulp while in the 
raw state may be substituted for the strawberries. All fruits preserved by this method are 
especially good for use in shortcake. 

2. This recipe is not a marmalade, but is closely related to marmalade. 

JELLIES 
Jelly Fruits Grouped According to Richness in Pectin and Acid 

The two essentials in jelly-making are pectin and acid. These must always be 
present. Pectin is the substance in fruits and vegetables which gives them their 
jelly-forming properties ; its presence is important in marmalades as well as in jellies. 

Some fruits have these two essentials in sufficient quantities, and they are 
classed as perfect or ideal jelly fruits. Some fruits are deficient in one or the other 
substance, and to the juice of these fruits the pectin or acid must be added. 
If this is kept in mind almost any fruit can be made to yield good jelly. 

Group I. Perfect or ideal jelly fruits: 

CURRANTS SOUR APPLES GRAPES PLUMS BERRIES 

Black Crab Catawba Damson Blnebeiries 

Red Snow Concord Lombard Cranberries 

White Etc. Etc. Wild 

Notes: 

1. Various flavors and colors may be given to apple jelly, such as: 

Barberry or cranberry (cook the berries with the apples) 
Geranium leaf (good with snow-apple jelly) 

Vegetable coloring matter (such as rose or light green; mint is the usual 
flavor for use with the latter) 

2. The best results are obtained if the fruit is under-ripe and tart. 

3. Some varieties of quinces are members of this group. 

Group II. Fruits containing sufficient pectin but too little acid: 

BLAND APPLES BERRIES MISCELLANEOUS FRUITS 

Maiden blush Blackberries Chokecherries 

"Sweet" Elderberries Guava 

Etc. Raspberries Peaches 

Strawberries Pears 

Quinces (discard the cores or 
the jelly will not be clear) 



36 LESSONS IN COOKERY 

Notes: 

1. In order to supply the needed acid, add enough of any one of the following sour-fruit 
juices to make the peach or other fruit juice as sour to the taste as sour-apple juice: 

Apple, sour (such as crab) Grape 

Cranberry Lemon juice 

Currant Etc. 

The following are among the especially good combinations for jelly: 
Quince and cranberries (attractive looking) 
Quince, sweet apples, and a little lemon or cranberry juice 
Maiden blush apples and grapes 
Blackberries and currants 
Elderberries and wild crab-apples 
Red raspberries and currants 
Sweet apples and wild plums 

2. Tartaric or citric-acid crystals dissolved in a little water are a possible substitute 
for sour-fruit juice (see Note 1), though their use is recommended for laboratory experi- 
ments and not for the average housekeeper. As a rule, they greatly alter the flavor of the 
peach or other juice; hence the jelly is often disagreeable to the taste. 

Group III. Fruits containing sufficient acid but too little pectin: 
Citrous fruits (pulp and juice) : Cherries 

Grapefruit Pineapple 

Kumquats Rhubarb 

Lemons 
Oranges 
Tangerines 

Notes: 

The four sources of pectin given in the following four notes are arranged in the order 
of their probable comparative value to the housekeeper. 

1. In order to supply the needed pectin, add the juice of any of the "perfect" jelly 
fruits — such as currant, grape, or sour apple. Note that the perfect jelly fruits are useful in 
supplying pectin to fruits of Group III and in supplying acid to those of Group II. 

Carrots are rich in pectin, hence the addition of ground raw carrots to the jelly fruit 
is a possible experiment for the housewife. 

2. Commercial pectin, a by-product of cider-making, is a late product which is used 
by canning factories; no doubt it soon will be available for home use. It is a sirup which 
looks and tastes like thick apple juice. For jelly-making, add from H to X c. of this 
pectin sirup to 1 c. fruit juice. The larger the quantity of pectin sirup added, the larger 
the quantity of sugar that may be added and the greater the yield of jelly, but the flavor 
is impaired. „_ .* * .* / 

To secure (i) cider and (2) apple pectin: 

a. Press (not cook) the apples in order to obtain cider. 

b. Cook pulp (drained free of all cider) in water in order to extract the pectin. 

3. The white peel of orange and other citrous fruits is also a rich source of pectin. The 
use of citrous pectin is recommended for laboratory tests, but not for the average house- 
keeper, since the flavor of the resultant jelly is often disliked. 



FOOD ECONOMY 37 

To secure orange pectin: 

a. Mix the following ingredients thoroughly and let stand 1 hr.: 

}i lb. white peel of orange, ground in a food-grinder 

1 c. water 

2 tb. lemon juice 

b. Add 2yi c. water, and let stand 1 hr. 

c. Boil 10 min., then let stand until cold. 

d. Drain through a flannel jelly bag; press the bag. 

e. Drain through a second (clean) flannel bag; do not press the bag. 

The liquid obtained is colorless, has very little flavor, and is about as thick as thin cream. 
Add this water extraction of pectin to the fruit juice for jelly-making. 
The following jelly recipe (usual proportions) is recommended: 

1 c. non-pectin fruit juice 

1 c. pectin (apple or orange) 

1 c. sugar 

Class experiment for jelly: 

This 4s not a recipe, inasmuch as the flavor is not very good; % c. total liquid is essential, 

2 tb. fruit juice, secured from oranges or any other fruit of Group III 
2 tb. pectin solution, secured from any of the following: 

m Apples 

White peel of orange or other citrous fruit 
Citron melon (see Note 4) 
2 tb. sugar 
Boil the two liquids together 3 min., then add sugar and boil to jelly stage. 
4. The citron melon may possibly prove to be of some aid in jelly-making. A certain 
magazine article (not very recent) asserts that the citron melon is a rich source of pectin; 
good jelly is said to have been made by cooking diced citron melon with any one of the 
following: diced orange pulp, pineapple, or rhubarb. 

To secure citron-melon pectin: 
This is a laboratory experiment. 

a. Chop fine or grind the entire citron melon, almost cover with water, and 
simmer until very tender. If desired, the melon may be soaked before cooking. 

b. Drain off liquid. 

Mix the solution with the juice of any fruit of Group III, then proceed with the regular 
jelly method. 

General Method for Making Jelly from Fruits of Groups I, II, and III 

Broadly speaking, this is an example of the open-kettle method of food-preservation. 

1. Wash fruit, preferably underripe, and place it in a porcelain kettle; the 
larger and harder fruits, such as apples, should be cut in small pieces. • 

2. If the fruit is juicy, add water until it is almost covered; if the fruit is dry, 
add water to cover completely. 

3. Simmer the fruit gently until the juice runs freely, then drain in a jelly bag; 
do not stir the fruit while cooking, nor squeeze the bag. No matter to what group 
the fruit belongs, 1 lb. fruit should yield 1 pt. juice; this rule is very helpful in 
determining the quantity of water to add in making jelly. 



38 LESSONS IN COOKERY 

4. Test the juice for pectin by this means: Place about 1 t. fruit juice in a 
tablespoon, add to it an equal amount of alcohol (such as 95 per cent grain 
alcohol), and mix well. The degree to which pectin is precipitated determines 
the quantity of sugar to be added for jelly; see step 5. 

5. Measure sugar according to the following directions (see Notes 2 and 3) : 

One large lump (pectin) in spoon Measure 1 c. sugar to 1 c. juice. (Many 

cooks prefer but }i"% c. sugar.) 

Several smaller lumps in spoon Measure about # c. sugar to 1 c. juice. 

No lumps in spoon, simply a somewhat 
thickened juice Measure y£ c. or less sugar to 1 c. juice. 

At the same time test the juice for acid in this manner: Add one drop lemon 
juice to the spoon containing the fruit juice and the alcohol; if the acid increases 
the precipitation of pectin, the conclusion is that more acid is desirable in the 
fruit juice. Hence add sour-apple, lemon, or other acid juice. (Note that acid 
in the juice is just as essential for jelly-making as is pectin.) 

Another test for the acidity of the juice is to taste it; it should taste as sour as 
sour-apple juice. 

If a juice is too sour, dilute it with water. 

6. Heat the juice by itself just to the boiling point, then strain. • 

7. Boil the strained juice J-3 min. ; the time depends on the quantity of juice. 
In the case of a small class recipe, do not boil the juice at all. 

8. Add sugar and boil (not simmer) until the following tests hold true; the first 
test is the most valuable. Do not cook beyond the test stage, or the jelly will 
be tough. 

a. Jelly falls from a spoon in two drops, which iihmediately form into 
one drop. The jelly should not break off in one broad "sheet" from 
the edge of the spoon; if it does this, the jelly will be tough, because 
boiled too long. 

b. A few drops on a cold plate thicken quickly. 

c. Jelly boils with thick, sticky bubbles, not watery ones. 

The thermometer is a great aid in jelly-making, as it will indicate the approach 
of the jelly stage. The juice does not require careful watching until 102-103° C. is 
reached; it does require very careful watching after this point is reached. 

9. Cool to just below the boiling point, then skim, and pour into hot clean 
jars. Sterilization of the empty jars does no harm, but is not essential. Why? 

10. Let stand until firm, then cover with paraffin. 

11. Economize by making jelly from the second, third, and even fourth ex- 
tractions of juice ; this is an important and practical suggestion for the housekeeper. 

Prepare the second extraction as follows: Place the fruit pulp in a saucepan, 
add % as much water as was added to the fruit for the first extraction, then pro- 
ceed with the jelly as in steps 3-9. 

Second-extraction juice, as a rule, is weaker in pectin than the first extraction, 
and hence requires less sugar. One expert reports the making of 16 glasses of 
jelly from 4 qt. currants; four extractions of juice were made. 



FOOD ECONOMY 39 

Notes: 

1. Other possible means of economizing are: 

a. Make jelly from parings and cores of fruits left from other cooking. 

b. Squeeze pulp from the bag and make "fruit butter." 

2. If the juice does not thicken at all when the spoon test is made, it is not suitable 
for jelly unless combined with apple juice or other juices rich in pectin. 

3. Quality of jelly is largely dependent on the quantity of sugar added. Caution: The 
most frequent cause of failure in jelly-making is an over-proportion of sugar to juice— that 
is, to the pectin in the juice. If too much sugar is added, the jelly is like a sirup and fails to 
set. If too little sugar is added, the jelly is tough and the yield of jelly is small. A jelly 
failure means a waste of both sugar and fruit. 

Jelly can be made without the use of any sugar. The chief function of sugar in jelly 
is to flavor and preserve. 

4. Class suggestion: Each pupil to secure a quart basin full or three-quarters full of pre- 
pared fruit. One day prepare jelly from the first extraction; the next day prepare jelly 
from the second and third extractions. Much more than one jar of jelly should result from 
the quart of fruit; pupils to compete for the largest jelly yield. 

5. Experiment with juices of carrots and turnips: Test the juices for pectin, then pre- 
pare jellies from them by the general method for fruit jelly; for the sake of economy omit 
sugar, since these jellies are not usually relished and serve simply as an experiment. Car- 
rots and turnips yield firm jellies even though no acid is present. 

6. Class to prepare an exhibit as follows: 

a. Tests for pectin (add alcohol to test-tubes of fruit and vegetable juices) 

b. Jellies from the three groups of fruits and from carrots and turnips 

7. Pupil to study various jelly references, such as the following: 

a. Principles of Jelly Making, by N. E. Goldthwaite; a bulletin published 
by the University of Illinois. 

b. "The Secret of Good Jelly," by Isabel Bevier; see Good Housekeeping (1909), 
pp. 92-95. 

c. Extension Bulletin No. 6, "Jellies, 'Preserves and Marmalades," Florida State 
College for Women. 

d. Successful Canning and Preserving, by Ola Powell; published by Lippincott 
Co., 1917. 

SYNOPSIS OF PRESERVATION OF FOODS BY SUGAR s 

J. Preservation by a large quantity of sugar with moist heat, and in some cases spice. 

1. Marmalades. 

2. Jellies. 

3. Preserves, namely, fruit cooked in an open kettle in a heavy sugar sirup 
until tender and "transparent"; sometimes sun-cooked. As a rule, % lb. sugar 
is used to 1 lb. fruit. Preserves are usually stored in air-tight glass cans; crocks 
are sometimes used. 

4. Candied fruits. 

5. Condensed milk (sweetened). 

II. Preservation by a large quantity of sugar without heat. 
See typical recipe on page 35. 



40 



LESSONS IN COOKERY 



FOOD PRESERVATION— A SYNOPSIS' 

Pupil to supply data for the second column, securing information from the 
recipes, pages 11-39, from home experience, dealers, etc. 



Methods of Preservation Used 



1. Regulation of temperature during transportation: 

a. Cooling — prevents the decay and spoiling 
of foods in hot climates. 

b. Heating — prevents the freezing of foods in 
passing through cold climates 

2. Drying or desiccation (removal of water from food by 
dry heat) — retards and prevents bacterial growth: 

a. Moderate dry heat, such as sun drying — 

b. Medium dry heat, such as slow oven drying 

3. Sterilization by heat — destroys bacteria, molds, and 
parasites: 

a. Moist heat, such as boiling water and steam 
under pressure 

b. Dry heat at high temperature (350° F., or 
177° C, or over), as in baking of bread or 
frying of meats in fat (see Note 4, p. 42) . . 

c. Intermittent application of moderate heat 
first, to kill bacteria; second, to allow spores 
to grow. between heatings; third, to kill 
bacteria resulting from spore growth. . . 

4. Pasteurization — destroys almost all bacteria but not 
the spores. Heat at fairly high temperature (140° F., 
or 60° C.) for a short time (30 min.). 

5. Cold storage — retards the growth of bacteria and 
parasites: 

a. Refrigeration — temperature above freezing ; 
varies somewhat for each particular food. 
Permits "ripening" of certain foods 

b. Freezing — stops practically all bacterial 
growth and chemical changes in foods 

6. Antiseptics — addition to foods of chemicals which 
retard or kill microorganisms: 

a. Not rendering foods harmful if antiseptics 
are used moderately — salts, fruit acids, 
benzoic acid, benzoate of soda, salicylic 
acid, boric acid, sulphuir-dioxid, etc 

b. Making foods poisonous —mercuric chlorid, 
cresol derivatives, and phenols such as 
carbolic acid 



A Few Examples of Poods Used 



* This table was prepared by A. D. Emmett, Ph. D. 



FOOD ECQNOMY 
FOOD PRESERVATION— A SYNOPSIS— Continued 



41 



Methods of Preservation Used 



7. Pickling — retards growth of certain microorganisms: 

a. Acids, such as acetic in case of vinegar. . . 

b. Brine or salt mixtures 



c. Condiments, such as spices 

d. Acid, salt and sugar mixtures, and some- 
times glycerin. (Boric acid and benzoates 
are sometimes added also.) 

8. Curing — inhibits growth of microorganisms: 

a. Wood smoke 



b. Sugar with salt (sodium chlorid) 

c. Salts: saltpeter and sodium chlorid 

9. Preserving — stops growth of organisms:, 

a. Sugar in large quantities to a sirupy con- 
sistency 

b. Glycerin and sugar — foods for exhibition, 
extracts, etc 

c. Alcohol — flavoring extracts, foods for ex- 
hibition, etc 

d. Kerosene — fruits, etc., for exhibition only 

10. Canning — excludes air, prevents aerobic bacterial 
growth and possible contamination from outside 
sources, and if foods are properly sterilized assures 
.perfect preservation for unlimited periods of time 

a. Tin cans. Seal all openings 

b. Glass jars. Fasten tops securely and tight, 
(see Note 1, p. 42) 

c. Glass tumblers. Pour paraffin over surf ace 
of jelly or jam, then put on tin lid 

11. Packing — partial or complete exclusion of air (retards 
aerobic bacterial action and that of molds; also pre 
vents loss of moisture or absorption of moisture) : 

a. " Water glass " or sodium silicate, oils, paraf 
fin, and varnish — complete exclusion of air 

b. Lime water — partial exclusion of air 

c. Ground cork, oats, and salt — partial exclu- 
sion of air 

d. Paraffin and oiled paper — complete exclu- 
sion of air if folds are sealed 

e. Tin foil, sized cloth (for wrapping hams, 
etc.), and paper — partial exclusion of air 
and retention or exclusion of moisture. . . 



/. Paper cartons — partial exclusion of air . 



A Pew Examples op Foods Used 



42 LESSONS. IN COOKERY 

Notes: 

1. New rubber rings should always be used. It is recommended by some that the 
rings be dipped in glycerin to assist in the exclusion of air. 

2. Which of the reagents in 6a, 7, 8, and 9 are lawful in all the states? Study the pure 
food laws. 

3. In moderate quantities vinegar, some condiments, and saltpeter are harmless in the 
body. 

4. With dry heat at 350° F., or 176° C, or over, the food will be sterilized if the inner 
part or center of the food reaches 212° F., or 100° C, and remains at this temperature for 
some time. Otherwise only the outer layer or crust will be sterilized, and therefore micro- 
organisms may still grow. 

5. Dry heat at 350° F., or 176° C, or over is a very good temperature for sterilizing 
glassware, metals, and some grades of cloth. This temperature is just below the point at 
which paper will brown and yet not burn. Allow the oven to cool before opening the 
door, otherwise glassware will crack owing to the sudden change in temperature. 

6. Define the terms antiseptic and disinfectant. 



PART III 
COMPLETE DISHES 



SUGGESTIONS FOR LESSONS 

Stuffed Juicy Vegetables 

12. Baked stuffed tomatoes or peppers 

Stuffed Starchy Vegetables 

13. Mashed-potato cups (includes boiling and mashing of potatoes) 

Complete-Dish Hashes 

14. General recipe for hash 

Saut6ed Complete-Dish Balls 

15. Sauteed meat balls 

Creamed Protein Foods 

16. Creamed meat or fish on toast (includes first work with white sauces) 

Complete-Dish Sandwiches 

17. Hot cheese sandwiches 

Complete Escalloped Dishes 

18. Escalloped macaroni and cheese 

19. Escalloped noodles and meat 

COMPLETE-DlSH CROQUETTES 

20. Macaroni and cheese croquettes 

21. Codfish balls (dropped croquettes) 

COMPLETE-DlSH LOAVES 

22. Steamed salmon and rice loaf with tomato sauce (includes boiling of. rice) 

23. Baked beef loaf 

Complete-Dish Stews 

24. Lentil stew 

25. Fish chowder 

COMPLETE-DlSH TURNOVERS 

26. Meat turnovers 

Complete-Dish Pies 

27. Meat pies 



INTRODUCTION 

DIETETIC VALUE OF COMPLETE DISHES 

/. "Complete dishes' 9 well-balanced meals. 

Every complete dish is in itself a more or less complete and well-balanced 
meal with respect to protein, carbohydrates, and fats. A perfect balance is not 
always obtained, as the ratio of protein to starch in the various dishes ranges from 
1:1 to 1:5. 

Complete dishes are particularly useful for luncheons, suppers, picnics, and 
camp meals; some complete dishes are desirable dinner dishes. 

The following are specimen tables 1 whereby the pupil can prove that any 
complete dish is or is not a balanced meal with regard to protein, etc. 

Hash (See page 59) 



Materials 



Corned beef, cooked 

Potatoes, mashed 

Bacon, chopped; fat only 
Onion, green pepper, etc., 
Water to moisten 



Volume 



2c. 
2 c. 
2tb. 

He 



Weight 



lb. 



oz. 



Protein 
Calories 



216 
50 



266 



Total 
Calories 



1,365 

310 

175 

15 



1,865 



The protein yields nearly 15 per cent of the calories in this dish. The corned beef 
used should be rather fat, otherwise an extra cupful of mashed potato should be added. 

Creamed Chicken on Toast (See page 64) 



Materials 


Volume 


Weight 


Protein 
Calories 


Total 


(Individual portion) 


lb. 


oz. 

1 
1 


Calories 


Toast 


1 slice 

2tb. 

3tb. 




10 

22 

6 


72 


Chicken (canned), cooked, diced 


103 


Cream sauce 


75 








38 


250 



Here the protein yields a trifle more than 15 per cent of the calories. If canned chicken 
is not used in this dish, the slice of toast should be larger, and liberally buttered, and the 
cream sauce should be richer and increased in quantity. 

'The calculations in these tables were made from various bulletins, including Bulletin 
No. 28, U.S. Dept. of Agri., The Chemical Composition of American Food Materials. The pro- 
portion of the calories furnished by the protein to the total calories in these recipes is estimated 
to.be from 10 to 15 per cent. The recipes with the maximum of protein could have the starchy 
ingredients increased, thus reducing the cost while preserving the balance of nutrients. 

45 



46 



LESSONS IN COOKERY 



Escalloped Macaroni and Cheese (See page 75) 



Materials 


Volume 


Weight 


Protein 
Calories 


Total 


(Individual portion) 


lb. 


oz. 


Calories 


Macaroni, cooked 


2c 
lc. 
lc. 


11 
4 
9 

1 


27 

130 

40 

20 


210 


Cheese, grated 


512 


White sauce 


420 


Buttered crumbs 


316 








217 


1,458 



The protein in this dish yields nearly 15 per cent of its calories. 
Note: 

Pupil to secure data for the following table: 





Hot-Meat Sandwich (See page 72) 










Materials 
(Individual portion) 


Volume 


Weight 


Protein 
Calories 


Total 




lb. 


oz. 


Calories 


Bread 












Sliced meat 




Sauce : 









What percentage of the calories in this dish is yielded by the protein? 

i7. Large number of complete dishes possible. 

Almost any number of complete dishes may be prepared. The national and 
most famous dishes of practically every country are a combination of several 
foods cooked and served together. Many more or less complete dishes and 
simple combinations may be made in addition to those for which recipes are given 
in this book; the following are some of them: 



Bread and butter or gravy 

Bread and whole milk 

Bread pudding and cheese 

Crackers and chocolate 

Crackers or bread, and cheese 

Crackers, berries, and milk 

Cream of dried-legume soup — peanut, 

pea, bean, or lentil 
Custard ice cream and sponge cake 
Dates stuffed with cream cheese or nuts 
Liver and bacon on toast 
Meat stew with dumplings or rice 
Mince-meat pie 



Tamales 

Pork and beans, baked 

Stuffed meats — fowl or steak (mock 

duck) 
"Boiled" dinner 
Rice with cheese sauce 
Rice snowballs 
Rice-custard pudding 
Potato salad with hard-cooked eggs; 

see complete-dish salads, Book II 
Oatmeal mush with whole milk 
Poached eggs on toast 
Cold protein-food sandwiches (such 

as egg) 



FOOD ECONOMY 



47 



Pupil to compile a table for the discussion of the foregoing dishes and combi- 
nations; the following headings are suggested: 



Dish 



Protein Food Used 



Starchy Food or Other 
Carbohydrate Used 



Fat Used 



Place the list of dishes in the first column. Then, using as reference the list, 
pages 48 ff., ''Five Groups of Ingredients for Complete Dishes,' ' specify in the 
other columns the names of the protein, starchy, and fatty foods which may be 
used in the various dishes. 



ECONOMIC VALUE OF COMPLETE DISHES 

Complete-dish recipes are excellent for utilizing the cheaper sources of pro- 
tein, carbohydrates, and fats. 

Each of the dishes constitutes a one-piece meal, and as a rule is economical in 
the matter of nutriment, expense, time, and labor. 

Complete dishes furnish an excellent opportunity for using any tough meat, 
such as meat left over from soup. The chopping of meat helps to overcome 
toughness. 

In general, soup meat may be used in any way in which other cooked meat is 
used. One bulletin 1 states that soup meat never loses more than 13 per cent 
of its true protein during the process of soup-making. High seasonings, such 
as onion, tomatoes, and dried herbs, are essential in using soup meat, because of 
the lack of extractives; either extract of beef or fresh meat can be made to take 
the place of part of the extractives. Study the matter of economy; note that 
sometimes it costs no more to buy fresh meat than to make the soup meat palatable. 

1 Bulletin 162 ', Agr. Exp. Sta., University of Illinois, by Grindley and Emmett. 



48 



LESSONS IN COOKERY 



Five Groups of Ingredients for Complete Dishes 

The following groups of ingredients are the keynote to the complete-dish series, 
and may well be posted on the walls of the school and the home kitchen. These 
ingredients are largely left-overs. Note the large number of meat substitutes. 
These five groups offer a wide selection to the cook. It is essential that foods 
be selected from both Groups I and II for use in most complete dishes. 

Group I. Protein Foods 

(Use one or a combination in any complete dish) 



Chbesb 

AND 

Eggs 


Pish 

(Chopped, 

shredded, 

or flaked) 

(See Note 2) 


Legumss 

(Cooked; 

mashed or 

whole) 


Meats 
(Raw or 
cooked) 


Nuts 

(Chopped, or 

ground to 

meal or butter) 


CHEESE 


Codfish: 


Beans: 


Beef: 


Almonds 


Cottage 


Fresh 


Navy 


Hamburg 


English walnuts 


Grated 


Salt 


Soy 


Roast 


Pecans 


(much used) : 


Finnan haddie 


Kidney 


Steak 


Etc. 


Swiss 


Salmon: 


Lentils 


Soup meat 




Parmesan 


Fresh 


Peanuts: 


Chicken 




American, dry 


Canned 


, Raw 


Ham 




Etc. 


Tuna 


Roasted 


Lamb 




Pimento 


White 


Peas: 


Mutton 




EGGS 


Etc. 


Split 


Veal 




Hard-cooked 




Whole 


Etc 




Sauced 




Etc. 






Scrambled 











Note*: 

1. A small sieve serves as an excellent individual cheese grater for the use of each pupil. 

2. If cooked fish is used, remove bones, then flake. 

3. Soy-bean curd, which is like cottage cheese in appearance, is much used by Orientals 
as a meat substitute. 

4. Peanut butter is, as a rule, a very economical meat substitute; it is sometimes sold 
in bulk for 15-25 cents per lb. 

5. When preparing meats, remove bone and cartilage, and often more or less of the 
fat. Care should always be taken when cooking, especially with such complete dishes 
as hash and stews, to remove all inedible materials from meat and other foods. 

6. It is economical to buy ham and bacon "ends." 

7. Chopped protein foods, especially meats and fish, spoil very quickly as a rule. 

8. It is necessary to use a low temperature with cheese and other protein foods; a high 
temperature toughens them. 

9. The following vegetable protein foods are used to a large extent by vegetarians; all 
are possible meat substitutes in complete dishes: 

Nuts, and nut products (such as Nuttolene) 

Protose, the basis of which is the gluten of wheat. Nuts of various sorts are 
mixed with the gluten to make protose. Protose may be used in complete-dish 
loaves, etc. 
Cottonseed meal is a meat substitute which is being considerably experimented upon at 
the present time. It may prove to be of some use in complete dishes and other cooking. 



FOOD ECONOMY 

Group II. Starchy Ingredients 

{Use one or a combination in any complete dish) 



49 



Bread 


Cereals 
(Cooked) 


Flour Pastes 


Potatoes 

(Cooked) 

(See Note 6) 


Soft stale crumbs 
Cold biscuits 
Etc. 


Corn meal 
Farina 
Hominy 
Rice 


Macaroni 
Noodles 
Spaghetti 
Vermicelli 


Cold boiled 
Pulp of baked 
Etc. 



Notes: 

1. Starchy ingredients are useful in extending the flavor of meat; that is, they make a 
small quantity of meat satisfying — a point of economy. Juicy vegetables also are often use- 
ful in extending the flavor of meat. 

2. Boil macaroni in the following manner: 

a. Place in boiling salted water and boil 20-40 min., or until tender; the time 
required depends upon the composition and age ot the macaroni. 

b. Drain, and rinse with cold water so as to harden the pieces and remove sticky 
liquid. 

c. Drain, and dry in an oven or in a sieve held over the fire. 
Boil other flour pastes in a similar manner. 

3. Soup is often substituted for water in cooking flour pastes. Beware of soggy noodles, 
macaroni, rice, and other starchy foods. Why? To avoid soggy foods of this character, 
dry them thoroughly after cooking. 

4. Some meat and other protein-food dishes, such as stews, are made complete by the 
addition of one of the following: 

Dumplings Borders of hominy, macaroni, mashed 

Stuffing potatoes, rice, etc. 

5. The following substitutes for white potatoes in a meal are often of use in making 
complete dishes: 

a. Starchy roots and tubers (all but the first two named are grown chiefly in the 
tropics; see Bulletin 468, U.S. Dept. of Agri.): 

Sweet potato (most important) Taro 

Artichoke, Jerusalem Yam 

Cassava Yautia 

Dasheen (grown to some extent in the United 
States) 

b. Cereals, if supplemented by foods which produce an alkaline ash in the 
human system, such as fresh fruits and vegetables. (Potatoes produce an 
alkaline ash, while cereals result in an acid ash. This point is taken up in 
more detail in the fourth book of this series, Diet for Invalids.) Cereals 
include the following: 

Flour pastes (such as macaroni) 
Hominy or rice 

Mush prepared from corn meal or other finely ground cereal, sauteed 
or fried; corn-meal mush is delicious with chicken 

c. Bananas, raw or cooked (baked, sauteed, etc.) 

d. Chestnuts, boiled or roasted 



50 



LESSONS IN COOKERY 

Group III. Liquid and Binding Material 

(Use one or a combination in any complete dish) 



Sauces 


Miscellaneous Liquids 


Brown 


Butter, or a substitute, melted 


Starchy water from rice or a 


Gravy 


Cream 


flour paste 


Horse-radish 


Egg, raw (beaten or unbeaten) 


Tomato juice 


Stock 


Milk 


Vegetable stock (from onions, 


Tomato 


Meat stock 


dried legumes, etc.) 


White 




Water 



Notes: 

1. See list of butter substitutes (bacon drippings, etc.), Appendix, page 176. 

2. Raw egg primarily is a binding agent. It is often used in combination with a sauce. 

Group IV. Seasonings 

(Use any combination of seasonings to taste) 



Acid Seasonings 


Herbs and 
Relishes 


Juicy or Flavor 

Vegetables 

(See Notes 3-6) 


Miscellaneous 


Catsup or chili sauce 


Bay leaf 


Beets 


Parsley: 


Bacon, chopped 


Jelly, tart (such as 


Capers 


Cabbage 


Chopped 


Cheese, grated 


currant) 


Celery salt 


Carrots 


Whole 


Eggs, hard-cooked 


Lemon juice 


Curry powder 


Celery: 


Peppers: 


and chopped 


Pickles (such as dill) 


Garlic salt 


Stalk 


Green or ripe 


Flour, browned 


Tomato paste 


Horse-radish 


Root 


Mild or hot 


Lemon rind 


Tomato soup (as pur- 


Olives 


Chives 


Salsify 


Meat extract 


chased) 


Onion salt or 


Mushrooms 


Etc. 


Worcestershire 




juice 


Onions 




sauce 




Pepper 


Parsnips 




Etc. 




Pimentos 










Sage 










Salt 









Notes: 

1. Salt generally is essential. 

2. Cayenne is especially good with cheese. 

3. Juicy vegetables are used raw or cooked, and usually chopped, mashed, or cut in 
small cubes* 

4. For extra flavor, many of the drier of the juicy vegetables may be sauteed with the 
fat; celery, onions, and green peppers are often so treated. Do not brown the fat. Why? 

5.. Many times juicy vegetables may be used in large proportion in complete dishes 
and in this way may be substituted for part or all of the starchy material; beets and many 
other juicy vegetables are rich in carbohydrate material. Name such carbohydrates. 
Mash such vegetables if for use in sauteed balls ; mash or chop them if for use in hash. 



FOOD ECONOMY 



51 



The juicy vegetables left from making soup stock may be utilized in complete dishes. 

6. With lentils it is well to use plenty of tomato and onion seasoning. 

7. For recipe for tomato paste — dried tomatoes — see page 15. 

Group V* Garnishes 



Vegetables 


Miscellaneous 


Asparagus tips 


Cheese, grated or sliced 


Carrots, beets, and other root vegetables, 


Crumbs, buttered 


cooked and cut in slices, cubes," or fancy 


Eggs, hard-cooked and sliced 


forms 


Egg-yolks, hard-cooked and put through 


Celery tips 


ricer or sieve or sliced in fancy shapes 


Cress 


Lemon, sliced 


Parsley, whole or chopped 


Olives: 


Peas, whole green 


Green 


Squash, or white or sweet potatoes, mashed 


Ripe 


and put through pastry bag for "rose" 


Paprika 


or other border 


Pickles, such as dill, sliced 


Pimentos 


Rice, cooked and rolled in "riced " egg-yolk 


Tomatoes, sliced 


Sauce (such as tomato) 


Etc. 


Etc. 



Notes: 

1. Avoid overgarnishing. Never use inedible garnishes or those that are incongruous 
in color or of unpalatable flavor. 

2. Buttered crumbs are prepared as follows; they are used as a browning agent for top 
surface of many dishes, such as the complete-dish series. See Appendix, page 172, for the 
preparation of dry crumbs. 

a. Mix 5-8 parts fine bread or cracker crumbs with 1 part melted butter or a 
butter substitute; do not cook the two together. 

b. Spread over top of dish in a ^ in. layer. 



Miscellaneous Notes on Cooking of Complete Dishes 

1. All complete dishes allow great variation in ingredients, both raw and cooked foods 
being used; a few specifications are given for each of the recipes appearing on pages 52-104. 

2. In addition to fresh ingredients, the following are often used, as in camp cooking: 

Canned foods (such as salmon, corned beef, lentils, and beans) 
Condensed foods (such as milk, cream, tomato and other soups) 
Dried foods (such as potatoes, onions, parsley, carrots, celery, and the powdered 
soups) 

3. Solid foods for complete dishes are used in various forms, such as: 

Chopped, ground, or grated Sliced 

(most protein foods are so treated) Whole 

Mashed 

4. Note the great similarity of ingredients among many complete dishes, such as hash, 
sautled balls, and meat loaf. 



STUFFED JUICY VEGETABLES, BAKED OR BOILED 



Luncheon 

Baked stuffed peppers 
Lettuce salad 



(Complete dishes) 



Baked apples 



s Fried egg plant 
Bread and butter 



A Typical Filling for Stuffed Juicy Vegetables 



Ingredients: 




1-3 t. 


#-1 c. cold cooked meat, chopped 


1 tb. 


yi-iyix. cooked rice 


ltb. 


M c. bread or cracker crumbs 




Liquid: 


yit. 


2 tb. fat, melted, such as bacon fat or butterine 


few drops 


Water, stock, milk, white sauce, beaten egg, or tomato juice to 




moisten rilling 




Seasonings: 


Met. 


Salt to taste (about yi t.) 


dash 


Pepper to taste 


It. 


3 tb. browned flour 


}4 1. of each 


1-2 tb. of one or more of the following, chopped: 




Celery 




Onion 




Pepper, sweet green 




Tomato pulp 




Etc. 



Method: 

1. Saut6 the celery, onion, and green pepper 2-3 min. in the fat. 

2. Add all the other ingredients and mix well; mixture should be as stiff as 
soft biscuit dough. 

Notes: 

1. This filling is especially good for tomatoes, peppers, onions, and cabbage; special 
recipes for these vegetables are given on page 53. The class recipe is sufficient for one 
medium tomato or pepper, or one large onion; use 2 t. buttered crumbs on top of each 
vegetable. 

2. In preparing all fillings for juicy vegetables, select the ingredients from the list, 
pages 48ff., "Five Groups of Ingredients for Complete Dishes." Use almost any combination 
of ingredients — that is, if palatable — and mix in almost any order. Either raw or cooked 
chopped meat and fish may be used. Starchy food should be cooked; coarse bread or 
cracker crumbs are often used. Any sauces utilized should be very thick. High season- 
ings are desirable. 

52 



FOOD ECONOMY 53 

Baked Stuffed Tomatoes 

Method: 

1. Wash ripe, medium-sized tomatoes. 

2. Cut a thin slice from the stem-end of each tomato and remove the pulp 
by means of a spoon. 

3. Add the filling, cover the top with buttered crumbs, and bake 10-15 min., 
or until crumbs are brown; do not cook to pieces. 

Baked Stuffed Peppers 

Method: 

1. Wash medium-sized sweet green peppers. Cut the stem from each pepper 
so that the pepper will stand. Cut off the end opposite the stem and remove all 
the seeds; the opening should be 1^-2" in diameter. 

2. Place peppers over fire in cold water, and parboil 6-15 min., time depending 
on the sweetness of the peppers. Change water two or three times during the 
process if peppers are at all strong. 

3. Add the filling, cover with buttered crumbs, and bake 10-30 min., or until 
brown and hot throughout; do not cook to pieces. Place the end-slices on top 
as covers, if desired. 

Notes: 

1. Omit the parboiling if the peppers are very sweet. 

2. If preferred, split the peppers lengthwise and stuff both halves. 

Baked Stuffed Onions 

Method: 

1. Wash large onions. 

2. Remove skins, and cook onions 10 min. in boiling salted water just to cover 
onions; saucepan to be uncovered. 

3. Cool, and remove the heart or core of each onion; the layers or lamellae 
can be pulled out one by one. 

4. Add the filling, cover with buttered crumbs, and bake in a moderate oven 
15-20 min., or until tender and brown. 

Boiled Stuffed Cabbage 

Method: 

1. Wash a firm cabbage. 

2. Remove outside leaves, then using a knife and a spoon, and working from 
the stem-end, scoop out the inside of the cabbage. 

3. Sprinkle the inside of cabbage with salt, add the filling, and close the open- 
ing with pieces of cabbage. 

4. Tie the cabbage tight in a square of cheesecloth, and cook in rapidly boiling 
water; allow 30-35 min. for a 5* cabbage, and more time for a larger cabbage. 
Turn the cabbage over once or twice during the cooking. 

6. Remove cloth, place the cabbage stem-end down on platter, sprinkle with 
salt and paprika, and slice. The cabbage should be crisp, not flabby. 



54 LESSONS IN COOKERY 

Notes: 

1. Use the discarded cabbage center for salad or for boiling. 

2. If preferred, use the following filling; it is sufficient for one firm cabbage 5" in diameter. 
Such a cabbage furnishes six servings. (Saute* the vegetables 2-3 min. in the fat before 
mixing with the remainder of the filling.) 

yi c. chopped cooked meat (such as Hamburg steak or left-over roast) 

# c. cooked rice 

Liquid: 

1 egg> w ell beaten 

2 tb. milk 

1 tb. fat, melted (such as bacon fat) 
Seasonings: 

Salt to taste (about yi t.) 

yi t. paprika 

yi t. celery salt 

1 tb. onion, chopped 

1 tb. sweet green pepper, chopped 

Supplementary Notes 

1. The following vegetables require parboiling before being stuffed: 

Egg plant Cucumber, green or yellow 

Onion Pepper, sweet green 

Turnip Etc. 

Artichoke, French 
The following vegetables do not require parboiling before being stuffed: 
Tomato, ripe 
Cabbage: 
Whole 
Single leaf 
The following may be stuffed in the same manner as juicy vegetables but are not to 
be parboiled before being stuffed: 

Skin of a baked potato Grapevine leaf 1 Stuff as rolls, 

Shell of a squash, raw or cooked Corn husk J rather than cups 

2. Most juicy vegetables are baked, not boiled, after being stuffed. Cabbage is usually 
boiled after being stuffed, although, if parboiled, it may be baked. Steam some of the 
vegetables after stuffing, if preferred. 

3. Any stuffed vegetable is attractive if served in a bed of cooked rice. 

4. Note the following suggestions for baked dishes: 

a. Bake the vegetables until brown and hot throughout. It is sometimes well 
to baste while baking, using a mixture of yi c. water and yi tb. butter or 
a substitute. 

b. Buttered crumbs on top are desirable with all baked stuffed vegetables. 



STUFFED STARCHY VEGETABLES 

(Complete dishes) 

Luncheon 

Potato cups Celery salad 

Bread and butter Milk 

Chocolate cornstarch pudding 



The following recipes for steaming, boiling, and mashing potatoes are pre- 
liminary work for the stuffing of starchy vegetables. 

Steamed Potatoes 

Method: 

1. Scrub the potatoes and pare or not, as preferred. 

2. Place in a steamer, cover very tight, and steam 30 min., or until tender; 
keep water boiling in lower part of steamer. 

3. Add salt (except when it is expedient to serve the potatoes in their ' ' jackets' ') . 

4. Serve in any of the ways in which boiled potatoes are served. 

Boiled Potatoes 

Method: 

1. Select potatoes of uniform size and scrub with a brush. 

2. Pare if desired. If potatoes are old and strong-flavored, soak them several 
hours in cold water, then pare. 

3. Place old potatoes over fire in cold water to cover. Place new potatoes in 
boiling water to cover; add them one at a time so as not to stop the boiling. 
(See Note 1.) 

4. Boil gently 20-35 min., or until tender throughout when tested with a fork; 
do not boil potatoes rapidly or they will burst. A potato is done just as soon as 
it is easily pierced with a fork; it is overdone if it falls to pieces. 

6. Drain at once, for the potatoes become soggy if allowed to stand in water 
after they are tender. 

6. Dry the potatoes by shaking them in a colander over the fire or in the oven. 

7. Place in an uncovered dish, and serve immediately in any of the following 
ways: 

Plain 

With melted butter 

With cream sauce containing grated cheese or finely chopped parsley or 
pimentos 
Why serve immediately? 

55 



66 LESSONS IN COOKERY 

Not**: 

1. The potatoes should be salted. 

Pupil to determine whether or not it matters when the salt is added by experimenting 
as follows with the halves of a raw potato: 

a. Boil one half in unsalted water, then drain and sprinkle with salt. 

b. Boil the other half in salted water (using 1 h. tb. salt to 1 qt. water). 
Compare the halves as to flavor and dryness. A properly cooked potato is of good 

flavor, and dry and mealy, not soggy. 

2. Cook the potatoes with the cover of saucepan drawn to one side; this is particularly 
important with potatoes that are cooked in their jackets. Potatoes boiled in a closely 
covered vessel with unbroken skins will be rank in flavor and become dark and soggy. 

3. Sometimes a large potato becomes tender on the outside while the inside remains 
hard. In such a case, chill the outside of the potato by adding a little cold water to the 
saucepan; the inside of the potato will be cooked tender by the heat left in it. 

4. Do not serve boiled, steamed, baked, or mashed potatoes in closely covered dishes 
or they will become soggy. Why? If boiled potatoes are done a few minutes before the 
meal is ready, cover them with cheesecloth or other porous cloth, not a tight cover; the 
cloth absorbs any water formed by the condensation of steam. 

5. If a potato is to be boiled in its jacket, cut a thin slice from each end so as to allow 
a vent for the escape of the steam and thus keep the potato from bursting. 

6. A good class exercise consists in boiling and steaming potatoes at the same time, 
in the following manner: 

a. Boil potatoes in a deep saucepan, such as the upper part of a small double 
boiler. 

b. Steam potatoes in a sieve placed in the top of the saucepan. 
The two lots of potatoes should cook in about the same time. Why? 

7. Other starchy vegetables are steamed or boiled in much the same way as potatoes 
except for variation in time according to the size of the vegetable. 

Mashed Potatoes, White or Sweet 
Method: 

1. Scrub potatoes with a brush, pare, boil, and drain. 

2. Shake them in the oven or over the gas until they no longer appear wet. 

3. Mash at once until very smooth and light, using a fork, wire masher, or other 
beater, or force through a ricer or coarse sieve. The potatoes will not be light 
if they have been overcooked or not dried out later. 

4. Add seasoning and hot liquid in the following proportions: 

3 tb. 2 c. mashed potatoes 

% t. 1-3 tb. butter. 

At yi t. salt 

dash }i t. white pepper 

2 t. Hot milk or cream to moisten — about 4 tb. (see Note 2) 

6. Beat with a fork or a strong egg-beater until very light and white; potatoes 
will not beat light with air unless they are first made creamy with hot milk or cream. 
(Note increase in volume upon beating air into the potatoes.) 

6. Serve hot, and at once, or the potatoes will fall and be soggy. 



FOOD ECONOMY 57 

Notes: 

1. Both boiled and steamed potatoes may be mashed. 

2. If very creamy potatoes are desired, add extra milk or cream. 

3. Potatoes, if they are properly cooked and mashed, will be characterized by: 

Lightness or fluffiness 
Creaminess; no lumps 
Whiteness (air whitens) 

4. In addition to speed in working, the essentials for good mashed potatoes are hot 
milk or cream and hot dishes. 

Though cold mashed potatoes may be successfully heated, they are never quite so 
good as freshly cooked potatoes. 

5. Plain mashed potatoes may be utilized in the following ways: 

Potato puff (see page 129, under baked potatoes) 

Potato balls, that is, flat cakes saut6ed 

Potato for garnishing (a pastry bag is generally used, as for making a border 

of "roses" for fish or meat) 
Croquettes 

Stuffed Starchy Vegetable, Baked 
Method: 

1. Scoop out the center from one of the following starchy vegetables, raw or 
cooked: 

Artichoke, Jerusalem Potato, sweet Yam 

Dasheen Potato, white Etc. 

2. Fill with a mixture of the following, selected from the list, pages 48 ff., "Five 
Groups of Ingredients for Complete Dishes": 

Chopped protein food, raw or cooked 

-Liquid 

Seasonings 

3. Cover with buttered crumbs, and bake until tender and brown. 

4. Garnish, and serve. 

Note: 

If preferred, a cup molded from one of the following cooked starchy materials may be 
substituted for the solid- vegetable cup: 

a. Bread or toast case, formed by scooping out the top from a cube (or other 
form) of stale bread or toast. 

b. Left-over cereal, molded (such as hominy or rice). 

c. Flour paste (such as macaroni or spaghetti), the cooked paste being packed in 
molds. 

d. Chestnuts, mashed and molded. 

e. Starchy vegetable, mashed and molded; a recipe for potato cups is given 
on page 58. 

Raw egg is useful with b, e, d, and e> both as a binding and as a browning agent. Soft 
bread crumbs are sometimes useful as an additional binding agent in molding mashed 
potatoes and similar materials into cups. 



58 



LESSONS IN COOKERY 



Ingredients: 
2t. 

3tb. 
Xt. 
dash 
dash 
tft. 
2tb. 

2t. 



Mashed-Potato Cups 

{Six balls or servings) 
yi c. finely chopped left-over cooked meat, such as soup meat or roast beef 
2 c. mashed potatoes, whipped thoroughly with the following (see Note 2) : 

1 tb. butter 

Kt.salt 

yi t. white pepper 

2 1. egg, slightly beaten 
yi c. lefr-over meat gravy (or tomato or white sauce) 
Buttered-crumbs : 

6 tb. cracker crumbs 

1# tb. butter 



Method: 

1. Mix the meat with the gravy. 

2. Mold the mashed potatoes into six balls, scoop out top of each ball with 
a spoon, and fill with the meat mixture. 

3. Cover the top and sides of each ball with buttered crumbs; press the crumbs 
gently into the sides, but not too deep. 

4. Bake on the top shelf of a very hot oven 16-20 min., or until brown on the 
tops and sides. If necessary, brown the balls by holding them next to the broiling 
flame. 

6. Garnish with paprika and parsley. 

Notes: 

1. Various meat substitutes may be used in place of meat; select from foods in Group 
I, page 48. 

2. The potatoes should be thoroughly dried before being mashed. 

3. A good substitute for left-over meat gravy is the following ; cook until very thick, 
using any of the three sauce methods given on pages 70f . 

yi t. 1 tb. butter or a substitute 

yi t. 1 tb. flour 

dash H t. salt 

dash pepper 

H2 t. H t. extract of beef 

2 tb. y£ c. water or milk 

4. A good complete dish is prepared as follows: 

a. Prepare a "cup" from potatoes, rice, or other starchy food. 

b. Drop a raw egg in the center, and bake the whole until the egg is set. 

5. See recipe for stuffed baked potatoes, page 128. 



COMPLETE-DISH HASHES 

Breakfast 

Stewed Prunes 

Cracked wheat 

Hash Toast Coffee 



General Recipe for Hash 
Ingredient* (* average servings) 



2tb. 
2tb. 
1-3 1. 

dash 
da sh 

tft. 
Xt. 



2 c. cooked protein food (such as meat), chopped or ground 
2 c. cooked foods rich in starch or sugar (such as potatoes or beets) 
Liquid to moisten (Mi-K c * generally required) 
Seasonings to taste, such as: 

% t. pepper 

It. salt 

1-2 tb. bacon or other fat 

2 tb. onion, chopped 

1 tb. sweet green pepper, chopped 

Etc. 



Method: 

1. Mix all the ingredients. 

2. Cook in a sautfing pan 5-15 min. or bake in an oven 30 min., stirring every 
few minutes ; keep pan covered in either case. If a browned hash is desired, omit the 
stirring toward the last and cook until brown on under side; fold over double 
like an omelet, if preferred. 

3. Garnish with parsley. 

Notts: 

1. Extra flavor is secured by saut£ing together the fat, onion, and green pepper. 

2. In preparing the four ingredients for hash, select from the list, pages 48ff., "Five 
Groups of Ingredients for Complete Dishes." 

3. The carbohydrate material used in hash usually consists of cooked potatoes, chopped, 
diced, or mashed. Raw potatoes, chopped fine, are occasionally used; if they are used, 
allow extra time for cooking the hash. 

4. Vary the proportions in the given recipe as desired; for instance, if the carbohydrate 
material consists of turnips, beets, or other juicy vegetable, it is often well to use but 1 c. 
protein food to 2 c. carbohydrate material. 

5. Remove all but a little fat from any meat used. Avoid grinding meat to a pulp. 
Corned beef is especially good for hash; a fireless cooker is convenient if the meat is cooked 
at home. Sometimes during normal times the cheaper form in which to purchase corned 
beef is in the can, since there is no waste. 

59 



60 LESSONS IN COOKERY 

6. If legumes are substituted for meat, mash them. 

7. Hash cakes may be made, if preferred, as follows: 

a. Mold the hash into small round flat cakes, then saute* until brown on one side 
or on both sides; if desired, fold over double like omelets. 

b. Turn out on platter by inverting pan. 

8. Note two excellent methods for using left-over corned-beef or any other hash: 

a. Bake hash in ramekins or custard cups, then place a poached egg on top of 
each dish, and serve. 

b. Spread hot hash on rounds of toast, place a poached egg on top of each, and 
serve at once. 



SAUTEED COMPLETE-DISH BALLS 

Dinner 

Meat balls with brown sauce Stewed corn 

Cucumber salad Bread and butter 

Fresh fruit 



General Recipe for Sauteed Balls 

Ingredients: {6-9 servings) 

2 1. 1 c. ground meat or other protein food (usually cooked) 

1 tb. 1-2 c. potatoes or other starchy material (usually cooked) 

y£ t. Liquid to moisten to a good consistency for molding (see Note 3) 

dash Seasonings to taste 

Method: 

1. Mix all the ingredients to form a soft dough, then mold into small round 
flat cakes or balls. 

2. Roll balls in a small amount of one of the following (see Note 1) : 

Dry bread or cracker crumbs 
Corn meal 
White flour 

3. Saute* (or pan-broil?) in hot bacon fat or suet until brown on both sides. 
(For. quantity of fat to use in pan, see "Pan-Broiling and Sautenig," page 63.) 

4. Serve with a sauce and garnish with parsley. 
Notes: 

1. If preferred, roll the balls in egg before covering them with starchy material. In 
saut&ng these balls or any other foods, one aim is to turn the foods to a golden brown. 
Note the chief browning agents: 

Egg Starch 

Fat Sugar (used with apples, etc.) 

2. Dip the balls in buttered crumbs and brown in the oven, if preferred; if such balls 
are made large, so-called rolls result. Meat roll is especially good. 

3. Liquid or binding material is not always necessary. 

4. If onion, green pepper, and celery are included among the seasonings, it is well to 
saute* them witn the fat before adding them to the meat or other protein food; vegetables 
as a rule require longer cooking than protein foods. 

5. To select each of the four ingredients in this recipe, see list, pages 48 ff ., "Five Groups 
of Ingredients for Complete Dishes." 

6. Less than 1 c. starchy material may be used, if preferred; but note that the dish 
cannot be classed as "complete" if a minimum amount of starch is used. Soft stale bread 
crumbs are often included among the starchy ingredients. 

61 



«2 LESSONS IN COOKERY 

7. Both raw and cooked foods are included among the ingredients for sauteed complete- 
dish balls; for example, meat is used raw or cooked. Any of the following foods may be 
used: 

Cheese, grated 

Cheese, cream (such as pimento), whipped until light 

Eggs (hard-cooked), chopped 

Legumes, cooked and mashed 

Nuts (such as peanuts ground to a butter) 

Cereals (breakfast), cooked 

Vegetables, mashed or finely chopped 

Etc. 

FOUR SPECIFIC SETS OF INGREDIENTS FOR SAUTEED BALLS 

(Complete-dishes) 

Meat Balls 

Ingredients: (6-g servings) 

2 t. 1 c. finely ground cooked meat (such as left-over meat or sausage) 

1 tb. 1-2 c. mashed potatoes 

none 2 1. butter or a substitute, melted 

}£ t. 1-2 tb. egg, as a binding agent 

y A \. 1 tb. chopped onion, sauteed in a little bacon fat, if desired 

dash Other seasonings to taste 

Note: 

Egg is not always necessary, especially if either of the following is used as a binding 
agent: 

A few soft bread crumbs 

Some liquid other than egg 

Legume Balls ^ 

Ingredients: 

2 c. cooked legumes (mashed), selected from the following: 

Beans (such as navy or kidney) 

Peas 

Lentils 

Etc. 
1 1. vinegar 
l#-2 t. molasses 
Salt and pepper 
% t. mustard 

Note: 

If mixture is not of the right consistency to mold, add soft bread crumbs; note that, 
from the food standpoint, most legumes are so nearly " complete " in themselves that the 
addition of extra starchy material is not necessary. (See soy beans, page 144, as to starch 
content.) 



i FOOD ECONOMY 

Nut-Butter Balls 
Ingredients: 

y£-\ c. nut butter (such as almond or peanut) 
1 c. mashed potatoes 
Salt 
Note: 

Roll the balls in cracker crumbs before sauteing. 

Cheese Balls 

Ingredients: 

}i c. (not more) grated cheese 
1 c. mashed potatoes 
Salt and paprika 
Note: 

Roll the balls in cracker crumbs and saute* over a very low flame. 

PAN-BROILING AND SAUTEOTG 



63 



Pan-broiling. 



Sauteing. 



Amount of Pat Used in Pan 



Either put no fat in the pan, or use just 
enough to grease the pan. In the 
latter case, the test is for no free fat in 
the pan; a good plan is to grease the 
pan lightly, then invert so as to deter- 
mine that no extra drops are retained. 

Put 1-4 t. fat in a sauteuig pan of ordi- 
nary size. The amount of fat de- 
pends on the kind and quantity of food, 
and the length of the period of cook- 
ing. (Use Ji t. fat for the class recipe 
for sauteed balls, page 61.) 



Poods for Which Used 



a. Foods of a smooth surface, such 
as potato cakes. 

b. Foods which have no coating 
added, and which, as a rule, con- 
tain some fat, such as steak and 
Hamburg steak. 

a. Foods of a rough, dry surface, such 
as breaded chops; these foods will 
not brown, as a rule, if pan-broiled. 

b. Foods containing little fat and 
flavor. 



Notts: 

1. Grill-broiling is broiling on a grill next the flame; the meat has no opportunity to 
stand in even a small quantity of fat. Frying is cooking in fat several inches deep. Brown- 
ing of the food, as a rule, is one chief aim in broiling (pan or grill), sauteing, and frying. 

2. Greasy foods are objectionable to most persons. Sauteed foods are very likely to 
be greasy; hence, wherever possible, pan-broil foods or fry in deep fat in preference to 
sautemg them. Frying and saut&ng are often objectionable methods of cooking, particu- 
larly in work with children's or invalids' diet; in such cases baking is a good method to 
substitute. 

Various methods, such as the following, may be employed in cooking certain foods: 
Croquettes; fry, or dip in buttered crumbs and then bake until brown. 
Protein-food balls, such as meat; saut£, or dip in buttered crumbs and bake 
until brown. Potato balls and other balls of the starchy type are cooked 
by the same methods. 

Mush, such as corn meal; fry the slices, saute* them, or dip them in buttered 
crumbs and then bake. 



a. 
b. 



c. 



CREAMED PROTEIN FOODS; WHITE SAUCES AND 
THEIR DERIVATIVES 



Breakfast 



Creamed fish on toast 



Stewed apricots 
Farina 
Muffins 



Coffee 



Ingredients; 

ltb. 

}4 slice toast 



Creamed Meat or Other Protein Food 

(A complete dish) 

1 c. meat or other protein food, selected from the foods listed on pages 48ff ., 

"Five Groups of Ingredients for Complete Dishes" 
Crackers or slices of toast (prepared from bread, rolls, or biscuits), or one 
of the following substitutes: 

Toast boxes (see recipe, page 65) 
Biscuit-dough cornucopias 
Shredded-wheat biscuits 
Flat cakes composed of toasted cereal flakes 
Puff-paste patty shells (expensive) 
Swedish timbales (starchy content small) 
Popovers (filled through openings in the side) 
1 c. medium sauce: 

2 tb. white flour (or 4 tb. mediumly browned flour) 
2 tb. butter or a substitute 

1 c. liquid; use one or a combination of the following: 
Milk or cream Tomatoes, strained 

Stock or water Etc. 

l A~yi t. salt (omit in the case of salt meat and fish) 
Other seasonings to taste, selected from those listed on page 60, "Five 
Groups of Ingredients for Complete Dishes." The following chopped 
seasonings are especially desirable with tuna and other fish: 
Mushrooms Pimentos 

Peppers, sweet green Celery 

Method: 

1. Add the prepared protein food and seasonings to the hot cooked sauce and 
simmer 1-3 min. Exception: Cook a cheese mixture in a double boiler, and heat 
just until the cheese is melted. 

2. Pour over crackers or toast, garnish with paprika and parsley, and serve. 

Notes: 

1. If shredded-wheat biscuits are used, toast until crisp, then scoop out a hollow in the 
top by means of a paring knife; later fill this cavity with creamed food; ham is palatable. 

64 



K-lt. 
K-lt. 
3tb. 



dash 
dash 



FOOD ECONOMY 65 

2. Browned flour is often substituted for the white flour of sauce, especially in the case 
of dried beef. 

3. If desired, 1 egg, well beaten, may be added to the cooked sauce. 

4. Types of creamed foods in general are as follows, all of them being excellent camp 



a. Toast, or a substitute, with a sauce containing chicken, oysters, salmon, or 
other protein food. 

b. Toast, or a substitute, with a sauce containing corn, peas, carrots, spinach, 
or other vegetable food; use the same proportions of sauce, etc., as in the recipe 
given for protein foods. 

c. Toast, or a substitute, with a sauce (simple) only, such as cream toast and 
tomato toast; serve either as a vegetable or as an entree. Grated cheese 
is a good garnish for these toasts. 

5. Fruit toasts (see the third book of this series, Diet for Children) bear a resemblance 
to this recipe; mashed or whole fruit is poured over toast or a substitute. 

Toast Boxes 

Method: 

1. Slice all the crust from a loaf of bread 2-3 days old. 

2. Cut the loaf into any solid forms desired, such as: 

Circular 
Cubical 

Diamond-shaped 
Rectangular 
The depth of each form should be at least 13^-2"; the general size is a matter 
of choice. 

3. Scoop out a hollow or "cup" in the top of each form by means of a knife 
and a spoon. 

4. Dip each shell into melted fat, such as butter or a substitute, or sprinkle 
with melted fat. 

5. Using the broiling oven, toast the bread on all sides to a delicate brown. 
If preferred, fry until brown in deep fat; omit step 4 in this case. 

6. Fill with any protein-food, vegetable, or fruit filling; as a rule, mix the 
foods with sauce before placing them in the toast box. 

7. Garnish with parsley and yolk and white of hard-cooked eggs. 

Notes: 

1. If preferred, brown the form and then scoop out the top. 

2. One large toast box may be made by using the whole loaf; it is attractive looking 
for a family meal. 

3. "Croustade" is the name applied to a certain type of crisp case or patty made to 
hold a filling. Note the following kinds of croustades: 

Toast box or croustade 
Rice croustade 
Hominy croustade 
For rice croustades see recipe on page 378, Boston Cooking-School Cook Book, by Fannie 
Farmer. 



66 LESSONS IN COOKERY 

PREPARATION OF PROTEIN FOODS FOR CREAMED DISHES 



Pood 



Preparation 



Left-over cooked meat of all kinds, 
such as chicken, ham-ends boiled, 
roast, steak 



Dried beef. 



Sweetbreads, beef (see Note 2) . 



Brains, calf or beef (see Note 3) . 



Slice thin, grind, or cut in cubes. 



(Shave, remove any skin or stringy portion, then tear 
slices into small pieces. Cover with boiling water and 
let soak 2-3 min. Drain, and dry well. (See Note 1.) 

Wash sweetbreads and soak them in cold water 1-2 hr. 
Drain, and cover with boiling salted water containing 
a little acid; allow 1 t. salt and 1 t. vinegar to each 
large single sweetbread. Simmer 20 min., or until 
tender. Drain and plunge into cold water at once in 
order to harden the meat and preserve the color. 
Remove all fat, pipes, and membrane. 

Wash thoroughly 1 lb. brains, and soak them over night 
in 1 qt. cold water containing 2 t. salt.. Remove outer 
skins, roll in flour or cracker crumbs, and saute* in a 
hot pan until brown on both sides. Cover tight, and 
cook over a low flame 20 min. longer, or until well done. 



Unsalted fish, cooked, such as canned 
tuna or salmon 



Codfish salt or dried. . . 
Finnan haddie, smoked 

Cheese (see Note 4) . . . 
s, hard-cooked 



Legumes, dried, such as beans, lentils, 
peanuts (raw), peas (see Note 5) . . 



Nuts, such as almonds, pecans, or 
roasted peanuts (see Note 6) 



Remove bones. Shred or mince. 



{Shred, and cook several hours in warm water to cover 
fish. Simmer 5 min., then drain. Add fresh water 
and simmer 5 min., or until tender. 

Cut fish in strips, cover with cold water, and gradually 
bring to the boiling point. Reduce heat, and let stand 
25 min. just below the boiling point. Drain, and rinse. 
Flake fish. 



Grate or shave thin. 

Slice or chop. 

Soak over night in cold water to cover. Drain, add 
fresh water, simmer until very tender, then mash; 
press through a sieve, if preferred. 

Prepare meal by chopping the nuts, or grinding in a meat- 
or almond-grinder. Prepare butter by grinding to a 
smooth paste in a meat-grinder. (See Notes 7, 8.) 



Notes: 

1. If preferred, frizzle or curl the dried beef 2-3 min. in a little hot bacon or other fat 
before adding it to the sauce; this process possibly improves the flavor, but it also toughens 
the meat. 

2. Calves' sweetbreads may be used, but they are much more expensive than the beef. 

3. Creamed brains are cheap and good; they are an excellent substitute for sweetbreads, 
4 f American rabbit is the term applied to simple creamed cheese on toast. 



FOOD ECONOMY 



67 



5. Dried legumes are more or less rich in starch, hence add them to a very thin or a 
medium sauce; peanuts and soy beans are not so rich in starch as other legumes. Tomato 
sauce is especially desirable with lentils and kidney beans. 

6. Peanuts have great food value, and as a rule they are very inexpensive. 

7. Add either the nut meal or the nut butter to the liquid (usually milk or a white 
sauce), and simmer 3-5 min. Add salt, and pour the mixture over hot toast. 

8. Since peanut meal or butter contains some starch, do not add it to a thick sauce; 
use the following special ingredients: 

1 c. milk (if preferred, thicken this with a paste — }i tb. flour and }i tb. butter) 
4 tb. peanut meal or butter (homemade or commercial) 
Salt to taste (about % t.) 



WHITE SAUCES AND THEIR DERIVATIVES 
Uses of White Sauces 

(No set rules; many times the sauces are used interchangeably) 



Thin Sauce 


Medium Sauce 


Thick and Very 
Thick Sauces 


1. 


Used by many cooks as a 


1. 


Meat and milk gravies 


1. 


Mixing of croquettes, such 
as chicken 




foundation for cream soups ; 


2. 


Escalloped dishes, such as 






for example, see the third 
book of this series, Diet for 




macaroni 


2. 


Mixing of souffles (a medi- 




3. 


Basis for "custard" as used 




um sauce, as well, is often 




Children. 




for cake fillings and ice- 




used in souffles) 


2. 


Creamed toasts 




creams 


3. 


Making of fillings for cream 


3. 


Escalloped dishes 


4. 


Sauce for creamed foods, 




pies, such as date or lemon 




Etc. 




that is, for pouring over 
various foods, such as: 

Fish and meats 

Oysters and lobsters 

Toasts 

Vegetables, such as 
mushrooms 

Etc. 
Use J-l c. sauce to 1 c. 
food 




cream 



Ingredients for White Sauces 



Sauce 


Milk, 

Cream, 

or White 

Stock 


Flour 


Butter or a Substitute 

(See list of butter substitutes, 

page 176) 


Salt 


Pepper 
(Such as paprika) 


Thin 
Medium 
Thick 
Very thick 


lc. 
lc. 
lc. 
lc. 


ltb. 

2tb. 
3tb. 
4-6 tb. 


0-1 tb. 
0-2 tb. 
0-3 tb. 
0-3 tb. 


Ht. 
Jit. 
Jit. 
Jit. 


Hot. 
Met. 
Hot. 
Hot. 



68 



LESSONS IN COOKERY 
Ingredients for White-Sauce Derivatives 



Sauce 


Liquid 


Flour 


Butter or a 
Substitute 


Salt 


Pbfper 


Brown gravy or 
sauce (for use with 
meats and vege- 
tables) 


1 c. milk or water 


1J£ tb. browned 
flour 


0-1 tb. 


Ht. 


Hot. 


Tomato sauce 


1 c. tomato juice 
(or use part 
milk or water) 


l-2tb. 


0-2 tb. 


Ht. 


Met. 


Drawn butter 


1 c. hot water 


lj^tb. 


4tb. 


Ht. 


Mot. 


Mustard sauce 


H c. very strong 

vinegar 

H c. water 


2 tb. flour 

3 tb. powdered 

mustard 


0-1 tb. fat 
(such as oil) 


1 1. salt 
2 t. sugar 


Ht. 

white 
pepper 



Notes; 

1. The French chef always keeps on hand four meat and fish sauces — white, tomato, 
brown, and Bechamel; these he uses as bases for many other sauces. 

2. To avoid curdling in making tomato sauce, a red (tomato) sauce should be cooked 
well first and then the milk added. 

3. Two class recipes for medium sauce are as follows (white sauce results if milk is used) : 

3 tb. liquid; use one or any combination of the following: # c. liquid 

Milk, water, or stock 

Tomatoes, strained 

Etc. 
It. flour l#t. flour 

0-1 1. fat 0-l# t. fat 

Met. salt Met. salt 

dash pepper dash pepper 



POSSIBLE INGREDIENTS FOR WHITE SAUCES AND THEIR DERIVATIVES 

White sauces and their derivatives are usually served hot. The following 
outline lists the ingredients for such sauces, including most hot-meat, fish, and 
vegetable sauces and gravies, as well as lemon and a few other pudding sauces. 



I. Liquids: 



Milk 

Cream 

Meat stock, white or brown 

Vegetable juice, such as strained tomatoes 

Vegetable stock 

Fruit juice 

Water 



FOOD ECONOMY 69 

Note*: 

1. Liquids may be used singly or in any combination. 

2. A very white sauce results from using white or chicken stock, not milk, in "white" 
sauce* 

3. Vegetable stock is the water in which vegetables have been boiled. 

4. Fruit juice is used chiefly in sweet sauces for puddings. 

5. Certain liquids, such as tomato juice, may be treated as follows: 

a. Simmer liquid 5-15 min. with herbs, chopped vegetables, or other seasoning. 
6. Strain, and proceed with the sauce. 

6. If more than 2 c. liquid (milk in particular) is used in making a sauce, it is safer 
in order to prevent lumping and scorching, to cook the sauce in a double boiler; see appli- 
cation in Methods II and III, page 71. A similar rule holds for cream soups and all other 
liquid dishes consisting of milk thickened with starch. 

//. Thickening agents: 

Flour, white or browned 

Cornstarch, arrowroot, or other powdered starch 

Left-over cooked ground cereal (such as farina) 

Egg yolks 

Irish moss 

Notes: 

1. Thickening agents may be used singly or in any combination. 

2. Flour is the usual thickening agent used. Browned flour does not thicken so much 
as white flour. On an average, yi tb. white flour and 1 tb. browned flour have the same 
thickening value. (Pupil to define dextrin.) 

3. If cornstarch is used, cook sauce especially well so as to secure a velvety texture 
and to get rid of the raw taste. 

4. If left-over cooked ground cereal is used, it should be substituted for part of the 
flour or cornstarch. 

5. Irish moss and egg yolks are often of special use in invalids' diet. 

6. If the flour or other starch is blended with fat before being added to the liquid, the 
resultant mass or ball of paste is called roux. 

7. The three starch "blends" used in general cooking are: 

a. Fat, used in sauces, soups, etc. (note use of roux) 

b. A little cold liquid, used in sauces, cornstarch pudding, etc. 

c. Dry ingredients, such as sugar, used in sweet sauces, cornstarch puddings, etc. 

///. Fats: 

Butter 

Butter substitutes 
NoU$: 

1. For list of butter substitutes, see Appendix, page 176. They are very desirable 
from the standpoint of economy, and almost any one of them may be used in making 
sauces for strongly flavored foods, such as finnan haddie. Drippings are sometimes 
desirable in sauces for creamed meats. Rendered suet is often especially valuable from 
the standpoint of economy. 

2. In preparing salmon croquettes and other oily dishes, it is often advisable to omit 
all fat from the sauces. 



70 LESSONS IN COOKERY 

IV. Seasonings and other additions: 
Capers 

Cheese, grated 

Egg, hard-cooked, then sliced or chopped 
Egg, raw 
Herbs and spices 
Nutmeg 
Onion juice 

Pepper (such as paprika) 
Pickles 
Salt 

Sauces (such as mint and Worcestershire) 
Sugar, spice, lemon juice, etc. 
Vegetables, chopped, such as: 

Celery Peppers, sweet green 

Mushrooms Parsley 

Onions Pimentos 

Notts: 

1. The raw egg may be used whole, or the white and yolk may be used separately. 
For example, snowflake sauce is made by folding 1 beaten white into 1 c. thin white sauce; 
yellow Bechamel sauce contains the yolk of egg. 

2. Herbs and spices may be added to tomato sauce, etc. 

3. A dash of nutmeg is sometimes added to white sauce. 

4. Salt is essential in most sauces. When white sauce, cream soup, and other liquid 
dishes having milk as a basis are being prepared, the salt should be added at the last moment, 
or curdling is likely to occur. This rule is especially important when one is dealing with 
large quantities. 

5. Sugar, spice, lemon juice, etc., are added as a rule to sweet sauces only. 

6. If preferred, saute* the celery, mushrooms, onions, or peppers with a little of the fat 
required for the sauce. 

THREE METHODS FOR WHITE SAUCES AND THEIR DERIVATIVES 

(Flour selected as a typical thickening agent for use in all three methods) 

I. Use of cold-liquid blend. 

This is termed the dietetic method. 

1. Mix flour with an equal amount of cold liquid to form a smooth, thin paste ; 
the paste is really a thin batter, 1:1. 

2. Scald the remainder of liquid in a double boiler; then, stirring constantly, 
gradually add the paste. 

3. Cover the double boiler, and cook the mixture 10-30 min., according to the 
quantity; long cooking improves the flavor. Cook until well blended and creamy; 
stir often enough to prevent lumping. (With some sauces, and in case of emer- 
gency, it is possible to dispense with the use of the double boiler by boiling 1-3 
min., or until creamy, over a direct flame, stirring constantly.) 

4. Add fat and seasonings, such as salt and pepper, just before serving; it is 
sometimes convenient to allow the hot mixture to stand for a time before seasoning. 



FOOD ECONOMY 71 

Notu: 

1. This method is not so commonly used as Method II. 

2. It is an economical method because the quantity of fat can be reduced to a minimum. 
The method is of particular value where little or no fat is used. Note the following points 
in regard to a white sauce containing no fat: 

a. It can be made surprisingly good. 

b. It must be carefully made or straining will be necessary. 

c. A rich color can be obtained by the addition of a paste composed of egg 
yolk and cold water. 

d. It bears some similarity to the recipes for both laundry starch and homemade 
library paste thickened with flour. Explain. 

3. It is called the dietetic method for the following reasons: 

o. Amount of fat can be controlled; excess of fat is likely to retard digestion. 

b. Starch, as a rule, is more thoroughly cooked. 

c. Fat is not cooked at all. 

4. Sauces made by Method I are supposed to be more easily digested than those made 
by Method II. It is generally agreed that Method I is always the better one for chil- 
dren's and invalids' diets. 

II. Use of tnelted-fat blend. 

This is a simple method and the usual one for employing the fat blend; very 
nearly equal amounts of fat and flour are necessary. 

1. Heat fat over a low direct flame or in a double boiler just enough to soften 
it, then remove at once from the fire. Avoid overheating the fat; for example, 
do not allow butter or butterine to " curdle.' ' 

2. Add flour and mix to form a very smooth paste. (Do not cook fat and flour 
together, because the temperature runs high and so harms the fat — for instance, 
injures the flavor of butter; if the paste is not allowed to brown, a little cooking 
may sometimes be permissible.) 

3. Add a little of the liquid and stir to form a thin paste, then place over a 
low flame and stir constantly while adding the remainder of liquid in a thin, steady 
stream; the liquid added may be» either cold or scalding hot. 

4. Stirring constantly, cook over a low flame until thick, and finally let boil 
1 min. or a little longer. 

5. Add seasonings, such as salt and pepper, and serve. 

III. Use of creamed-fat blend. 

This method is used to a considerable extent. 

1. Scald liquid. 

2. Cream the fat and flour together to form a paste. At least % as much fat 
as flour should be used if the sauce is to be smooth; if a richer sauce is desired, 
use equal amounts of fat and flour. 

3. Add the paste to the hot liquid, and cook in either of the following ways: 

a. Cook 5 min. over a direct flame; almost constant stirring required. 
6. Cook 10 min., at least, in double boiler; constant stirring not required. 

4. Add seasonings, such as salt and pepper, and serve. 



COMPLETE-DISH SANDWICHES 

Luncheon 

Hot-meat sandwich Sauteed carrots Bread and butter 

Fruit cobbler 



HOT SANDWICHES CONTAINING MEAT OR OTHER PROTEIN FOOD 

Prepare hot sandwiches from peanut butter or any of the other protein foods 
listed on page 48. 

All hot sandwiches should be eaten with a knife and fork. 

A few specific recipes are given below; both cheap and expensive foods are 
listed. 

Hot-Meat Sandwich 

Ingredients: 

Bread, toast, or crackers 

Hot meat, sliced or cubed, selected from the following: 

Roast beef or veal Roast veal or beef loaf 

Roast mutton, lamb, or pork Steak 

Roast chicken Etc. 

Sauce, hot and well-seasoned, selected from the following: 

Brown meat gravy White sauce (see Note 2) 

Tomato sauce Etc. 

Method: 

1. Place meat and sauce between slices of bread or toast, or between crackers. 

2. Pour sauce over the top of sandwich. 

3. Garnish with parsley and dill pickle or olives, and serve hot. 



Note 



1. The following is a good class recipe for sauce: 

\yi t. browned flour 

1 1. fat 

4 tb. liquid (milk, water, or tomato pulp) 

2. A white sauce made with milk or chicken stock is especially good with chicken. 

3. Left-over meats ordinarily are used for hot-meat sandwiches. 

4. A good substitute for hot-meat sandwich is prepared as follows: 

a. Place a thin slice of boiled ham or tongue on a round slice of buttered toast. 

b. Place a poached egg on the meat. 

c. Add one of the following sauces: 

Cream Tomato 

Curry Hollandaise 

72 



FOOD ECONOMY 73 

Club Sandwich 

This is a special and expensive type of meat sandwich; it is a toast sandwich 
arranged in layers. All the ingredients used in making the sandwich, except the 
toast and bacon, as a rule are cold. 

Method; 

1. Toast four triangular slices of bread and spread them, while they are still 
hot, with mayonnaise dressing. 

2. Place lettuce hearts on two of these, then add the following layers: 

Thin slices of the breast of cold, cooked chicken, such as roasted 
Thin slices of broiled bacon or ham (sometimes served cold) 
Slice of toast (hot) 

3. Place the two sections side by side on a plate, or, if preferred, arrange the 
sandwich four slices deep of toast. 

4. Garnish with any of the following: 

Capers Head-lettuce hearts Parsley 

Chili sauce Mayonnaise Pimentos 

Dill pickles Olives Radishes 
Notes: 

1. The slices of bread may be cut in the shape of diamonds, triangles, squares, etc., before 
being toasted. Toast bread on one side or both sides, and spread with butter if desired. 

2. Note possible additions to mayonnaise dressing: 

Catsup Peppers, sweet green or red, minced 

Celery, minced Pimentos, minced 

Olives, minced Etc. 

3. Possible substitutes for white meat of chicken are as follows, the meat sometimes 
being minced rather than sliced: 

Game Slices of hard-cooked egg 

Tongue Sardines, skinned and boned 

Turkey Chicken meat other than the breast 

Veal .Etc. 

4. A slice of tomato may be put into the sandwich*. 

5. The garnishes listed are allowable in ordinary diet; serve a very simple toast to the 
aged and to invalids in general. 

Hot Cheese Sandwich 

(Especially good far picnics and chafing-dish parties) 
Method: 

1. Butter a thin slice of bread, using white, graham, whole-wheat, rye, or 
other bread; remove crusts, if preferred. 

2. Put grated or sliced cheese on a second thin slice of bread. 

3. Make a sandwich, cut it into two oblong strips, and brown slightly on both 
sides in any of the following ways: 

Bake 

Saut6 in bacon fat, butter, or a substitute 

Toast 



74 LESSONS IN COOKERY 

Avoid a high flame, and do not cook after the cheese is melted. Why? 
4. Garnish with parsley, and serve hot. 

Notts: 

1. Note substitutes for cheese in the sandwich: peanut butter, ham, sliced or deviled, 
a combination of cheese and ham, etc. 

2. If preferred, make a mixture of the following, and dip the sandwich into it before 
baking or saut&ng: 

1 egg, slightly beaten He -H t. salt 

y£-\ c. milk or cream Pepper 

Sometimes it is well to roll the sandwich in cracker crumbs after dipping it in the egg 
mixture; then cook. 

An excellent way to use left-over dry sandwiches of any kind is to dip them in the egg 
mixture, then bake or saut6. 

French toast, prepared as follows, bears some similarity to a dipped sandwich: 

a. Dip slices of stale bread in the egg mixture given above; allow 4-6 slices to 
legg. 

b. Saut6 in bacon or other fat until slightly brown on both sides. Avoid a high 
flame. Why? 

c. Serve hot with sirup, butter, or jelly. 



COMPLETE ESCALLOPED DISHES 



Luncheon 

Beef bouillon 

Macaroni and cheese 



Cress salad 
Fresh fruit 



Wafers 
Bread and butter 



Escalloped Macaroni and Cheese 

(A complete dish) 



Ingredients: 


{5-6 settings) 


1-2 1. 


1 c. grated cheese (see Note 2) 


2tb. 


2 c. boiled macaroni, 1* pieces (to boil macaroni, see page 49, Note 2) 




1 c. medium sauce: 


It. 


1-2 tb. butter or a substitute 


It. 


2 tb. flour 


3tb. 


1 c. liquid — one or a combination of the following: 




Milk or cream Tomato pulp 




Stock or water Etc. 


Hash 


34 1. salt 


H^h 


He t. paprika 




Buttered crumbs: 


It. 


yi c. dry crumbs . 


Xt. 


2 tb. melted butter 



Method- 

1. Place a layer of macaroni in a buttered baking dish and sprinkle with 
cheese. 

2. Repeat putting in layers of macaroni and cheese. 

3. Add sauce, then cover with buttered crumbs. 

4. Bake 10-30 min., or until the cheese is melted and the crumbs are a 
golden brown. 

Avoid too hot an oven, that is, do not allow mixture to boil, else the cheese 
is toughened. 

Notes: 

1. Escalloped dishes are dishes in which the ingredients are baked in layers. 

2. A smaller quantity of cheese, for instance }i~H c. t may be used, if preferred; a 
"complete " dish does not result, however, if a minimum quantity of cheese is used. 

3. For possible substitutes for (a) cheese, (b) macaroni, (c) sauce, and (d) seasonings 
in this recipe, see list, pages 48ff.y"Five Groups of Ingredients for Complete Dishes." 

75 



76 LESSONS IN COOKERY 

Almost any number of complete escalloped dishes can be prepared; average proportions 
for all such dishes are as follows: 

1-2 1. 1 c. cooked protein food, chopped 

2 tb. 2 c. cooked starchy food 

3 tb. 1 c. sauce or other liquid 

dash Seasonings to taste (such as onion juice) 

It. Ho. buttered crumbs 

4. The following is an average recipe for cheese sauce: 
% c. or more grated cheese 

1 c. sauce: 

1 c. milk or tomato pulp 1-3 tb. butter 

1-4 tb. flour Salt and pepper 

A rich cheese is better in this recipe than a plain cheese; it melts more easily and is 
not tough. Why? A filled cheese is likely to become stringy in cooking. Add the cheese 
to the completed sauce, and stir in a double boiler until the cheese is melted. Avoid a 
high temperature or long cooking. Why? 

Such a cheese sauce as the foregoing is useful in many "complete" and other dishes, 
such as the following: 

a. Escalloped dishes: 

Cereals (such as rice) 

Crackers, soaked in milk 

Eggs, hard-cooked, whole or sliced (curry a good addition) 

Flour pastes (such as macaroni) 

Vegetables (such as cabbage, cauliflower, and potatoes) 

b. Creamed dishes which are not baked (to be served on toast or not, as preferred) : 

Eggs, hard-cooked and chopped 

Fish or meat, chopped 

Vegetables (such as cabbage or potatoes) 

Escalloped Peanuts 

(A complete dish) 
1-2 c. chopped, roasted peanuts (or peanut butter) 

2 c. cooked starchy food, selected from the following: 

Hominy, macaroni, or rice 

Cubes of cold boiled potatoes 

Etc. 
2 c. white sauce 
yi c. buttered crumbs 

Escalloped Fish 

(A complete dish) 

1 c. cooked fish, flaked 

2 c. soft bread crumbs 

1 c. white or tomato sauce 

1-2 beaten eggs, if desired 

Seasonings (such as salt and pepper, and minced onions or parsley) 

yi c. buttered crumbs 



FOOD ECONOMY 77 



Escalloped Oysters 

(A complete dish) 
2 c. raw oysters 
1 c. boiled macaroni 
1 c. soft bread crumbs 
1 c. white sauce 

Seasonings (such as salt, pepper, and grated cheese) 
yi c. buttered crumbs 



Ingredients: 
It. 

y 2 t. 

dash 
2tb. 



Noodles 

{A good starchy foundation for complete dishes) 

2 eggs, beaten slightly 

2 tb. cold water or cream 

l /4t. salt 

Bread flour enough to make a very stiff dough 



Method: 

1. Add the dry to the wet ingredients and make the gluten elastic by kneading 
the dough 3-10 min., then roll until almost as thin as paper — to about Me" 
thickness; the more elastic the gluten, the thinner the dough can be rolled. 

2. Allow the dough to dry for 10-60 min., or until just before it reaches the 
brittle stage; the sheet of dough may be hung on a line to dry, or may be covered 
with a towel and be left on the board. Beware of allowing the sheet of dough to 
become brittle; a brittle dough and a sticky soft dough are equally objectionable. 

3. Cut into noodles by any of the three following methods, using a knife or a 
slicing machine sold for the purpose: 

a. Roll tight on the order of a jelly roll, then cut in Ht'-H" slices; 
unroll by tossing lightly. 

6. Cut dough into thin 3'' strips, then place the strips on top of one 
another. Cut the pile crosswise in He'-M* slices, then shake apart. 
c. Cut sheet in fancy shapes by means of cutters. 

4. Dry the noodles, and pack for future use in covered glass jars; they keep 
well. If preferred, cook the noodles at once after cutting. 

Notes: 

1. Noodles boil tender in 3-20 min., according to the age of the noodles. Serve boiled 
noodles in any of the ways in which macaroni and other flour pastes are served: 
o. Escallop with cheese or other protein food. 

b. Cream them (heat in highly seasoned tomato sauce or in a white sauce con- 
taining cheese). 

c. Serve in cream or meat soups. 

d. Serve in place of potatoes (that is, as a vegetable). 

e. Serve as a dessert (a good dessert consists of hot boiled noodles with hot 
apple sauce poured over them, and fried noodles as a garnish). 

Cheese and tomatoes lend flavor to all of these tasteless flour pastes. 



78 LESSONS IN COOKERY 

2. Strudel is a special noodle dough baked with apple, meat, or other filling; "com- 
plete" dishes sometimes result. Strudel differs from ordinary noodle dough in that the 
gluten in the dough is made very elastic by kneading and warmth ; the dough is then stretched 
until almost as thin as tissue paper, dried, and rolled. 

3. All flour pastes (stiff doughs, 4:1) are commercial products. Noodles are the only 
flour paste that, in addition to being a commercial product, can be made easily at home. 
(Pupil to determine whether or not homemade noodles are less expensive than commercial 
flour pastes.) Macaroni, spaghetti, and other wheat pastes are made by mixing hard- 
wheat flour and hot water into a stiff paste, which is then molded and dried; with the excep- 
tion of noodles, they differ in size and form only. All flour pastes are rich in gluten ; noodles 
differ from the other members of the group in that they contain eggs, and are therefore richer 
in protein. Buy cream-colored macaroni, etc., not white products. Why? 

The following types, proportions, and method apply to complete as well as to 
all other escalloped dishes. 

FIVE TYPES OF ESCALLOPED DISHES 
7. Escalloped dishes {complete) in which both protein and starchy foods are characteristic 
ingredients: 

Macaroni and cheese Rice and one of the following: 

Potatoes and cheese Cheese Lentils 

Potatoes and peanuts Ham Peanuts 

//. Escalloped dishes in which a protein food is the chief ingredient (see Note 2) : 

Cheese Legumes (such as peanuts) 

Eggs, hard-cooked Meat of all kinds 

Fish of all kinds (such as oysters or clams) Nuts 

///. Escalloped dishes in which starch is the chief ingredient: 
Cereal (such as rice or hominy) 
Flour paste (such as macaroni) 
Potatoes (raw are better than cold cooked) 
Etc. 

IV. Escalloped dishes in which fresh juicy vegetables are used as the basis (see Note 3): 

Cabbage Corn 

Cauliflower Onions 

Celery Tomatoes 

V. Sweet escalloped dishes, or those dishes in which fruits or other sweet materials are used: 

Fruit (such as oranges, escalloped with soft custard) 
Fruit escalloped with a starchy material, such as: 

Bread crumbs 

Rice or hominy 

Tapioca or sago (apple tapioca, etc.) 
Etc. 
Notes: 

1. All of the listed recipes (five types) offer fine opportunity for the use of left-overs; 
they are excellent dishes for supper or luncheon, and are good camp recipes, also. 

2. White sauce or a substitute is used in most of the dishes in which a protein food is 
the chief ingredient. 



FOOD ECONOMY 79 

3. Cheese is a good addition to the escalloped dishes in which fresh juicy vegetables 
form the basis. Escalloped rice and pumpkin is recommended by one cookbook. 

4. In preparing any of the four following ingredients for use with any of the recipes, 
select materials (singly or in any combination) from those listed on pages 48 ff ., " Five Groups 
of Ingredients for Complete Dishes": 

Protein food 

Starchy food or juicy vegetable 

Liquid 



All the recipes are very flexible; that is, the ingredients may be varied greatly as to 
type, form, and proportion; note the following possibilities: 

a. The recipes may be prepared from either raw or cooked foods. Meat or fish 
is usually cooked, but may be used in the raw state. 

b. Condensed milk is a possible substitute for white sauce. 

c. The solid foods employed may be used whole, sliced, chopped, or mashed, 
such as: 

Cheese, grated or thinly sliced 

Eggs (hard-cooked), whole, sliced, or chopped 

Lentils, whole or mashed 

Potatoes, sliced or mashed 

d. Buttered crumbs may be omitted. 

5. Any of the food combinations mentioned under any of the five types may be served 
as creamed dishes, if preferred, rather than escalloped; mix the desired liquid with the solid 
ingredients and serve without baking. 

GENERAL PROPORTIONS FOR ESCALLOPED DISHES 

2-3 c. solid food (in addition to plain and buttered crumbs) 

1 c. liquid, or enough to half or almost cover the other ingredients (see Notes 2, 

3, and 4) 
Seasonings to taste (see Notes 5 and 6) * 

Plain bread or cracker crumbs, to place between layers for thickening purposes 
Buttered bread or cracker crumbs for the top (about y£ c.) 

Notes: 

1. Use these proportions for all five groups of escalloped dishes. 

2. For liquid for unsweetened dishes select from the liquids listed on page 50, under 
"Five Groups of Ingredients for Complete Dishes." Medium sauces are used more often 
than thin sauces. Raw egg, chopped hard-cooked eggs, cheese, etc., are often mixed with a 
sauce before the latter is added to the dish; cheese is especially good with fresh vegetables. 

3. For liquid for sweetened dishes, use soft custard, etc. 

4. If the "solid food" used proves to be very juicy, as in the case of many fresh vege- 
tables, add little or no liquid. 

5. For seasonings for unsweetened dishes, select from the list on page 50. Bits of 
butter are also used as seasoning. 

6. For flavorings for sweetened dishes, use a choice of the following: 

Lemon juice Sugar 

Butter, bits of Etc. 

Spice 



80 LESSONS IN COOKERY 

GENERAL METHOD FOR ESCALLOPED DISHES 

1. Fill buttered ramekins or a large baking dish with alternate layers of (a) 
and (6) ; as a rule two or three layers of each are included in the recipe. 

a. Chief solid ingredient, that is, the one used in the largest quantity 

b. Remaining ingredients, except the buttered crumbs, added in any 
order desired: 

Liquid 

Seasonings 

Crumbs for thickening 

Etc. 

2. Cover with buttered crumbs (see Note 4). 

3. Bake 10-30 min., or until the dish is very hot throughout and brown on top; 
note that cheese and other protein foods are better if cooked at a low temperature. 

4. Garnish with parsley. 

Notes: 

1. Use this method with all five groups of escalloped dishes. 

2. If preferred, add all or nearly all of the liquid just before spreading the dish with 
buttered crumbs, rather than in successive quantities. 

3. It often saves time to dispense with all "layers"; simply mix all the ingredients 
(except the buttered crumbs) in a bowl, then place in a baking dish, and cover with buttered 
crumbs. In the strict sense of the term, "escalloped " does not apply to the dishes made in 
this way. 

4. Grated cheese is sometimes substituted for buttered crumbs, as in escalloped vegetable 
dishes. Note the evolution of meat pies, etc., from escalloped dishes by the substitution 
of pastry or baking-powder biscuit dough for buttered crumbs. 



COMPLETE-DISH CROQUETTES 

Luncheon 

Macaroni and oheese croquettes Stewed tomatoes 

Brown bread sandwiches 

Apple sauce Cookies 



Macaroni and Cheese Croquettes 

(A complete dish) 
Ingredients: (10 croquettes) 



It. 
2tb. 



It. 
2tb. 



dash 



% c. grated cheese (see Note 3) 

2 c. boiled macaroni, minced or cut in y* pieces (to boil macaroni, see 

page 49, Note 2) 
yi c. vejry thick sauce (as thick as a drop batter), made from the following: 
2 tb. flour 

1 tb. butter or a substitute 

3^ c. liquid — one or a suitable combination of the following: 
Milk or cream Tomato pulp . 

Stock or water Etc. 

#t. salt 
% t. paprika 



Method: 

Follow the general method for croquettes, page 84. 

Notes: 

1. One or more of the following ingredients may be added to this recipe: 

Chopped ham, tongue, etc. 

Yolks, beaten 

Onion and other seasonings 

2. Almost any number of complete-dish croquettes can be derived from this recipe by 
the use of different combinations of protein foods, starchy foods, liquids, and seasonings 
listed on pages 48 ff ., "Five Groups of Ingredients for Complete Dishes." Chop fish, meat, 
and hard-cooked eggs before using. A protein filling, such as a frankfurter or a piece of 
one, may be hidden in the center of a croquette, if preferred. 

3. A recipe for complete-dish croquettes becomes a meat substitute if protein material 
in excess of tlie given quantity is used. Also, such a recipe ceases to be complete if a mini- 
mum amount of protein material is used. Possible variations for croquettes include 1 tb.- 
1 c. protein food to 1 c. starchy material; thus some palates prefer the use of 1 tb.-J^ c. 
cheese in the foregoing recipe for macaroni and cheese croquettes. 

4. Note the following recipe for codfish balls, another complete dish. (Most croquettes 
are carefully molded by hand, not dropped or molded in the spoon as are codfish balls, a 
kind of dropped croquettes.) 

81 



82 LESSONS IN COOKERY 

Codfish Balls 

Ingredients: (*<*-*<> WW 

2 1. 1 c. raw salt codfish, washed, freed from bones, and shredded (measure 

after shredding) 
1 tb., rounded 2 c. potato cubes (%" cubes) 
X t. 2 1. butter 

1J4 t. 2 medium eggs, beaten very light 

dash )4 t. pepper 

Salt, if necessary 
Method: 

1. Mix the fish and potatoes, cover with boiling water, and simmer until the 
potatoes are tender. 

2. Drain mixture very dry, then mash and whip until light. 

3. Add the other ingredients and beat the resultant "drop batter* ' very hard 
for 2-3 min. with a heavy wire egg-beater or a fork. 

4. Shape in a tablespoon, slip into a basket, and fry to a medium brown in 
fat hot enough to brown a cube of bread in 40 sec. Fry but 4 or 5 balls at a time, 
and reheat fat each time. Why? 

5. Drain on absorbent paper. 

6. Serve with horseradish or other sauce. 

Notes; 

1. Secrets of success are as follows: 

a. Thorough beating is necessary (plenty of air essential). 

b. Balls look better if they are left rough on the outside. 

c. Fat must be hot and in good condition: free from water, rancidity, and bad 
flavor due to other foods. 

2. Raw fresh cod or any other fresh fish may be used in place of raw salt fish. Left-over 
cooked fish of any kind may be substituted for the raw fish. 

3. Use the following method, if preferred: 

a. Wash 1}4 c. shredded codfish, then simmer by itself until tender. 

b. Add 2 c. mashed, unseasoned potatoes, preferably hot. 

c. Add 2 1. butter, 2 large eggs beaten very light, and % t. pepper. 

d. Beat until very light, then drop by the teaspoonful into hot fat. 
Any other cooked protein food, such as ground meat, may be substituted for fish. 

4. Salt and smoked fish in general are a cheap source of protein; for example, salt cod- 
fish, salt herring (sometimes as cheap as $0.02 per fish), or smoked finnan haddie. 

Horseradish Sauce 

Ingredients: 

3 tb. grated horseradish root 
1 tb. vinegar 

Dash cayenne 
Xt. salt 

4 tb. triple cream, whipped stiff 

Method; 

Mix the first four ingredients, then fold in the cream. 



FOOD ECONOMY 



83 



FOUR TYPES OF CROQUETTES 

/. Croquettes {complete) in which both protein and starchy ingredients are used: 

Macaroni and cheese Rice and cheese 

Rice and ham or other meat Corn-meal mush and chicken 

//. Croquettes in which a protein food is the chief ingredient: 

FISH MEAT MISCELLANEOUS 



Clams 


Beef 


Cheese 


Lobsters 


Chicken 


Eggs, hard-cooked • 


Oysters 


Sweetbreads 


Legumes (such as peanuts 


Salmon 


Veal 


or kidney beans) 


Etc. 


Etc. 


Nuts 



///. Croquettes in which a starchy material is the chief ingredient: * 
Cereal (such as hominy or rice) 
Flour paste (such as macaroni) 
Vegetable (such as potatoes) 
Etc. 

IV. Sweet croquettes, derived from plain starchy croquettes by addition of sweets to the latter. 

Notes: 

1. The recipes offer good opportunity for the use of left-overs. 

2. As a rule, all croquettes are prepared from ingredients which have been previously 
cooked and chopped or mashed. Cheese is grated before being used. 

3. All croquette recipes are very flexible; that is, the ingredients may be varied very 
greatly both as to type and as to proportion. 

4. Select materials (singly or in any combination) from those listed on pages 48 ff., 
"Five Groups of Ingredients for Complete Dishes, ,, in preparing any of the four following 
ingredients for use with any of the types: 

Protein food Liquid 

Starchy food Seasonings 

5. Croquettes of all four groups are often used as entrees. 

6. Pupil to criticize the following menus: 



Dinner: 



Beefsteak 
Boiled rice 



Potato croquettes 
Combination salad 



Stewed cherries 



Luncheon: Lamb chops 

Sauteed potatoes 



Chicken croquettes 
Lettuce 



Watermelon 



Luncheon: Baked noodles and cheese 

Mashed potatoes 



Macaroni and ham croquettes 
Sliced tomatoes 



Baked custard 



84 LESSONS IN COOKERY 

GENERAL METHOD FOR CROQUETTES 

1. Mix all the ingredients, and if mixture is pulpy, whip with a fork until very 
light; some croquette mixtures, such as macaroni, are too coarse to whip to any 
extent. 

2. Spread on a plate or platter and chill; if even then the mixture is too soft 
to mold, use one of the stiffening agents mentioned in Note 1. 

3. Shape or mold into any of the following forms: 

Cakes, round and flat Pears 

Chops Pyramids 

Cones Spheres 

Cylinders Etc. 

Be exact in workmanship, avoiding cracks on the outside of croquettes. 
Work with the mixture^s soft as possible. Ideal croquettes are soft and creamy 
within. If preferred, place the croquette mixture in a shallow pan, chill, then 
cut into cubes or other forms; this is an excellent method for work with large 
quantities. 

4. Roll croquettes in fine sifted crumbs; the crumbs absorb any moisture on 
the outside and form a rough coating to which the egg will cling. Corn meal 
occasionally is substituted for crumbs. 

5. Form a fat-proof coating on the outside by dipping the croquettes into a 
slightly beaten mixture of egg and water; use 1 tb. milk or water to one egg. 
Be sure that the croquettes are perfectly coated. Why? (See Note 2.) 

6. Roll croquettes in crumbs again. 

7. Place in a frying basket, brown in deep fat, then drain on soft paper. Follow 
the general rule for all fried foods; that is, fry cooked mixtures in fat sufficiently 
hot to brown (golden) a small cube of very dry bread in 40 sec. ; use the 60-sec. 
test with raw mixtures (see Note 3). What happens to the croquettes if the fat 
is too cool? If it is too hot? Beware of frying many croquettes at one time. 
Why? 

8. Garnish with parsley and any of the following sauces: 

Brown Hollandaise Tomato 

Drawn butter Tartar White 

Notes: 

1. Stiffening or drying agents for croquette mixtures are as follows: 

a. Evaporation by cooking over a low flame; a better agent than (b). 

b. Addition of a few soft bread crumbs; such an addition is often made. 
Caution: Croquettes should not be made tough by the use of an excess of crumbs or 

other material. Avoid cracker crumbs with all croquettes except on the outside. 

Softening agents, if required, should be selected from the list of liquid materials in the 
table, page 50. 

2. Dipping in egg and crumbs is necessary with croquettes not containing egg, such 
as most white-sauce croquettes. It is not necessary with croquettes containing much egg. 

3. The temperature of the fat used for frying cooked mixtures should be 365-401° F., 
or 185-205° C; for raw mixtures, 347-374° F., or 175-190° C. 



FOOD ECONOMY 85 

GENERAL RULES FOR FRYING ANY FOOD 

A. Safety precautions: 

. I. Fry in a deep, heavy kettle. Why? 

II. Use either of the following methods for dealing with a blazing pan of fat: 

1. Exclude air by means of a tin or other cover for pan. 

2. Exclude air by covering blaze with sand. 

Caution: Never pour water into blazing fat. Why? 

B. Characteristics of a well-fried article: 

I. No taste or smell of the fat in which fried. 

II. Not greasy on the inside or outside; free enough from fat to leave very 
little or no grease spot on a napkin used for wrapping. 

C. Reasons why an article may become soaked with grease in frying: 

I. Use of too little fat in the kettle. Frying requires enough fat to float the 
article. (A quart basin half full of fat can be used for frying by two or 
three pupils. As a safety precaution, turn out the gas before putting in 
the food, and do not relight until all frothing has ceased.) 
II. Use of too low a temperature. Be sure that the initial temperature of 
the fat is high enough and that this is maintained throughout the process. 
(The frying temperature, as well as the initial temperature used in broil- 
ing, is much higher than the temperature used in boiling foods.) Note 
that it is most important to retest fat each time before adding a fresh lot 
of any foods to be fried. Anything that cools the fat tends to make the 
food greasy. Note the following causes of the cooling of fat: 

1. Addition of water, to the fat. The presence of water in fat is indicated 
by the bubbling of the fat. Fry in still fat, not bubbling fat. Avoid 
adding moist food to the fat; an article should be dry on the outside, 
although the inside may be as creamy as desired. 

2. Addition of too much food at one time. 

3. Addition of food that is too cold. 

III. Formation of an imperfect crust on the outside of the article. Causes 
of the imperfect crust are as follows: 

1. An incomplete fat-proof coating. All articles which do not contain 
egg in sufficient quantity should be rolled in fat-proof coating. 

2. Fat too cool to form a crust. The temperature of fat must be high 
enough to harden the egg at once into a coating which will prevent 
the absorption of fat; fat is not hot enough to crust over the outside 
of food so long as bubbles are seen in the fat. 

3. Presence of cracks on the outside of a croquette or other food. 

IV. Use of too much baking powder in the article to be fried. Explain. 

. V. Use of too much fat in the article. Fat causes the food to break into bits 
during the frying. 



86 LESSONS IN COOKERY 

VI. Improper draining of the article after frying. Note the following rules 
for draining: 

1. Hold basket of fried articles over the hot fat until they are well 
drained. A wire egg-beater or a small sieve serves very well as a 
frying basket for use by each pupil. 

2. Drain on paper immediately; use paper that is very absorbent, such 
as blotting paper, filter paper, or heavy unglazed meat paper. 

3. Keep foods hot while they are draining. 

4. Avoid heaping fried foods until after they are cold. 

D. Reasons for using a coating on a fried food: 

I. To prevent absorption of fat. The coating should be uniform and without 

breaks. 
II. To serve as a drying agent; that is, to prevent the moisture of food from 
coming in contact with hot fat and thereby causing sputtering. 

III. To preserve shape of article. 

IV. To serve as a browning agent. 

E. Types of coating for fried foods: 

I. Liquid. 

1. Batter, composed of egg t flour, etc. 

2. Slightly beaten egg mixed with a little cold water or milk; use 1 tb. 
liquid to 1 egg. 

II. Dry. (Except for sweet food the crumbs or other dry covering should 
be seasoned with a little salt and pepper.) 

1. Crumbs. These should be very crisp and dry; the fineness of crumbs 
is a matter of choice; for instance, crumbs are often sifted. Types 
of crumbs are given below: 

a. Dried bread, brown or white (see page 172). 

b. Cracker. These do not yield so rich a brown as bread crumbs. 
Also, they absorb fat more readily than bread crumbs. 

c. Rolled corn or wheat flakes, ground shredded wheat, or other 
"ready-to-eat" cereals. 

2. Raw corn meal, farina, or other ground cereal. 

3. Grape nuts. These are good for use with fish. 

4. Raw flour, white, graham, or "browned." 

III. Combination of liquid and dry. That is, egg (liquid) is used with crumbs 
or any other of the dry coatings; it is more often used than either liquid 
or dry coatings by themselves. Directions* to "egg and crumb " an article 
of food are as follows: 

1. Cool article, and roll in crumbs (crumbs furnish a rough surface to 
which the egg will cling). 

2. Roll in egg. 

3. Roll in crumbs. 



POOD ECONOMY 87 

F. Care of fat after frying: 

I. Cool fat a little and allow it to settle. 
II. Strain through a sieve lined with double cheesecloth (see Note 1). 

III. Wipe out the kettle with soft paper or a cloth. 

IV. Return fat to kettle and reheat fat so as to evaporate any water; heat 
until bubbling ceases and no "scum" of fine bubbles on top is visible. 
Water-soaked fat is of no use for frying. 

V. Cool fat, then store in a cold place until it is desired for further frying. 

Notes: 

1. If the fat contains much fine sediment, it is often necessary to use one of the follow- 
ing methods for clarifying: 

a. Add boiling water to cold fat, stir well, let stand until cold, then scrape the 
sediment from the under side of the cake of fat formed on top of the water. 

b. French- fry potatoes in the fat; the potato absorbs any foreign flavor or odor. 
(A part of the sediment forms as such in the bottom of the kettle; the remain- 
der, which collects on the potatoes, should be brushed off before the latter 
are served.) Strain fat through a sieve lined with cheesecloth, then store. 

2. Frying, if the following conditions are observed, is not an extravagant method of 
cooking: 

a. Use the less expensive fats. 

b. Use fat a number of times for frying; this <can be done if the fat is properly 
cared for; keep it well strained, do not overheat it, and do not store it so 
long that it becomes rancid. 

c. Make the fat into soap eventually. 



COMPLETE-DISH LOAVES; RICE FOUNDATIONS 



Dinner 



Meat loaf 

Buttered carrots 



Snow pudding 



Fried parsnips 
Bread and butter 



Ingredients: 

ltb. 
1 tb. raw 



It. 
It. 

to moisten 

dash 
dash 



Ket. 
4 drops 



Steamed Loaf 

(8-10 servings) 
1 c. ground or chopped protein food (such as cooked meat or fish) 
1 c. raw rice (or about 3H c. boiled rice) (see page 49 for possible 

substitutes) 
4 tb. cracker crumbs 
1 egg, beaten 
Hot water, milk, or stock to moisten filling so that it packs well; for 

example, 1-2 t. (see Note 1) 
J^t.salt 
Other seasonings to taste, such as: 

yi t. paprika 

}i t. celery salt 

1 tb. chopped onion, sauteed in a little bacon fat 

1 1. chopped parsley 

yi t. lemon juice 



Method: 

1. Boil or steam rice until it is almost tender; salt the rice. See recipes, 
pages 92, 93. 

2. Line a buttered mold with rice. 

3. Mix the remaining ingredients and fill the cavity. 

4. Cover meat with rice, pack, and steam 30 min. 

5. Turn out on a platter and surround with tomato sauce made from the fol- 
lowing ingredients: 

2 tb. 2 c. strained tomato pulp 

yi t. 3 tb. butter or bacon fat 

yi t. 1 tb. chopped onion (sauteed with the fat) 

]4 t. 4 tb. flour 

dash yi t. salt 

dash H t. pepper 

In preparing the sauce, use any of the three sauce methods, pages 70, 71. 

6. Garnish with parsley and a few slices of hard-cooked egg cut in eighths. 



FOOD ECONOMY 



89 



Notes: 



1. Many times no water, milk, or stock is needed in the recipe. 

2. If preferred, arrange the rice and protein food in alternate layers rather than line the 
mold with rice, or mix them before putting them in the mold. 

3. If one does not wish to take time for steaming the loaf, simply pour the protein- 
food mixture over the cooked rice, and serve. 

4. If the filling consists chiefly of salmon, it is often desirable to change it as follows: 

a. Add 2 tb., instead of }4 t., lemon juice. 

b. Add 1-3 t. curry powder to rice. 

c. Serve with drawn-butter sauce rather than tomato sauce. 

5. A simple dessert can be made by substituting fruit for protein food, and sugar, etc. 
for the various seasonings in the recipe. 

6. Steamed rice-balls (see the third book of this series, Diet for Children) are closely 
related to steamed complete-dish loaf. 



Ingredients: 

yi tb. 
2tb. 

Kt. 

1-2 1. 



dash 



Baked Loaf (Complete) 

(8-io servings) 

1 c. ground protein food (such as meat, fish, or mashed legumes) 

4 c. soft stale bread crumbs (coarse) or other starchy ingredient, 
packed solid in cup 

2 eggs, beaten 

4 1. butter or a substitute, melted 

Milk or other liquid, enough to moisten to the consistency of 

drop-biscuit dough 
1 1. salt 
Other seasonings to taste, such as: 

#t. pepper 

2 tb. chopped onion 

1-2 t. powdered herbs 



Method: 

Follow the method for baked loaf, page 90, or steam the loaf, if preferred. 

Note: 

Place the class recipe in a very small baking-powder can (sample size), cover tight, and 
bake about 30 min.; if twice the amount of the class recipe is used, bake in a custard cup. 



Ingredients: 

ltb. 
ltb. 
l At. 
Xt. 
1 tb. (about) 

dash 
Mt. sage 



Balked Loaf (Incomplete) 

(A complete dish only when served with rice, potatoes, etc.) 

(5-6 servings) 
1 c. ground meat cr fish or mashed legumes 
1 c. soft bread crumbs or other starchy ingredient 

1 egg> beaten 

2 t. butter or a substitute, melted 

Milk or other liquid, enough to moisten to the consistency of drop- 
biscuit dough 
1 1. salt 
yi t. paprika 
Other seasonings to taste (such as sage) 



90 LESSONS IN COOKERY 

Method: 

1. Mix all the ingredients. 

2. Pack solid in a well-buttered mold, such as a bread tin, and smooth the top 
surface. 

3. Bake or steam lhr., or until firm throughout; test with a silver knife. (Allow 
1J4-2 hr. for a 2-lb. loaf.) 

4. Turn out and serve with tomato, white, egg 9 or other sauce. Garnish 
with parsley, lemon, and hard-cooked eggs sliced thin or pressed through a ricer. 

5. Carve in thin slices. 

Notes: 

1. The object in baking is to keep the loaf from drying out, hence: 

a. Submit loaf to a high oven temperature, 482° P., or 250° C, for a few 
min. only — long enough to sear. 

b. Bake with a reduced oven temperature, 354°-356° P., or 175M80 C, for 
remainder of time, or until internal temperature of the loaf is 150° P., or 65° C. 

c. Keep pan covered so as to retain all steam. (If pan is not covered, baste 
the loaf often with a mixture of fat and water.) 

Note that the foregoing rules as to temperature, etc., are similar to those for an 
ordinary meat roast. 

2. If desired, line mold with cooked rice, add loaf mixture, and cover with rice; this 
produces a "complete" dish. 

3. Note the following suggestions as to the class recipe: 

a. Steam salmon loaf 15-20 min., or until firm. 

b. Bake or steam meat loaf 25-30 min. (use raw Hamburg steak for class exercise). 

c. Useavery small baking-powder can (sample size) or a custard cup for baking. 

GENERAL NOTES ON MEAT OR OTHER PROTEIN-FOOD LOAVES 

These notes apply to both types of loaf: (a) complete dish; (b) not a complete dish. 

1. Both types of protein-food loaf may be baked or steamed. 

2. If either type is baked or steamed in very small molds called timbales, the products 
are called timbales. Beaten white of egg, folded into the mixture before it is cooked, often 
improves timbales. 

3. In preparing protein food, starchy food, liquid, and seasonings for use in either 
type of loaf, select from the list, pages 48 ff., "Five Groups of Ingredients for Complete 
Dishes." Select the protein foods singly or in any A combination; likewise the starchy 
foods, liquid, and seasonings. 

4. The starchy material of a protein-food loaf usually consists of soft stale bread crumbs, 
but the following substitutes may be used: 

Cereal, cooked (such as rice or hominy) Potatoes, riced or mashed 
Crackers Stuffing from baked fish, fowl, or 

Flour paste, cooked (such as spaghetti) meat 

5. Seasonings may be selected from the following: 

Bacon, chopped Herbs (such as sage and thyme) 

Cheese, grated Lemon juice 

Greens, cooked, such as spinach or Pork, chopped fat salt (often substituted 

beet tops (a good loaf is made of for butter in protein-food loaf) 

cheese, spinach, and crumbs) Tomato pulp, etc. 



FOOD ECONOMY 91 

6. Note the following suggestions as to protein foods for use in either type of loaf: 

a. Raw meat is generally used; cooked meat is used only occasionally. With 
cooked meat the time required to bake the loaf is much reduced; sometimes 
the loaf is not baked at all, especially if a little gelatin is added. 

b. Remove all oil, cartilage, and bone from meat and fish. 

c. Cooked fish is used more often than raw fish. 

d. Either grated cheese or chopped hard-cooked eggs may be combined with 
coarse bread crumbs or other starchy material in making a loaf. 

e. Mashed cooked legumes are often, used, such as lentils. A loaf made from 
a combination of beans (kidney, navy, or lima), cheese, bread crumbs, pimen- 
tos, etc., is especially good. 

/. Nuts (chopped or ground) are often used, such as English walnuts and roasted 
peanuts. Nut loaves are especially attractive baked in sausage-like forms. 
A good loaf is prepared from nut meal, cheese, and bread crumbs. 

RICE 

I. Types of rice: 

Natural rice: 

a. Polished; white or light cream in color. 

b. Unpolished or "brown"; light tan in color, and a more valuable 
food than the polished. Why? 

Dextrinized or toasted rice; this is prepared by. heating dry natural rice 
in a saut&ng pan or in the oven. 

II. Three methods for cooking either natural or dextrinized rice: 
* Boiling 

Cooking in a double boiler 
Steaming 

777. Three methods for serving either natural or dextrinized rice: 

Breakfast food 

Vegetable, that is, as a potato substitute (good served with brown gravy) 

Dessert 
Natural rice, cooked by any of the three methods (see II), is good molded as a 
dessert. Which of the three methods results in the poorest mold? Why? 

IV. Characteristics of wellrcooked rice: 
Dryness 

-Separateness of all the kernels 
Tenderness 
Whiteness, in the case of polished rice 

V. Suggestions for the use of cooked rice, natural or dextrinized: 
Complete-dish series (rice is the starchy element) 
Rice croquettes 
Desserts: 

Rice pudding Escalloped rice with fruit 

Rice-balls Etc. 



92 LESSONS IN COOKERY 

The following recipes are for use with natural rather than dextrinized rice. 

Washing Rice 

Method: 

1. Pick over rice. 

2. Place in a wire strainer, and shake up and down in successive quantities of 
cold water until the last water is clear; or place in a strainer over a bowl and 
rub between the hands. 

Note: 

Too much washing of the natural rice results in the removal of the water-soluble 
vitamines. 



Ingredients: 

1 h. tb. 
l#c. 

Kt. 



Boiled Rice 

1 c. raw rice, well washed 

3-6 qt. very rapidly boiling water 

1 tb. salt 



Method: 

1. Sprinkle the rice slowly into the boiling salted water, being careful not to 
stop the motion of the water. 

2. Boil the rice until tender, 10-30 min., according to the age of the rice; test for 
tenderness by tasting or by crushing the grains between the fingers. 

3. Drain through a colander and wash with hot water. 

4. Dry in the oven. 

Notes: 

1. The water from boiled rice can be utilized as a thickening or binding agent for soups, 
sauces, meat loaf, etc. 

Experiments Boil down a little of the water to % its original volume, cool, and observe 
results. Test a little of the water with iodine. 

2. One good way to prepare rice is to simmer it 15 min., then bake 15 min. in a hot 
oven. 

3. The kernels in properly boiled or steamed rice are always separate; the methods for 
keeping the kernels separate in boiling are as follows: 

Water Rice 

a. Keep a quantity of water on the rice, a. Wash raw rice. 

the more the better; thus in the b. Drop rice into water very slowly. 

foregoing recipe 5-6 qt. are better c. Stir as little as possible; when stirring is necessary, 

than 3 qt. water. use a fork, not a spoon, so as not to crush the kernels. 

b. Have water in violent agitation when d. Do not cook too long. 

rice is put in. e. Drain well and wash with clear water. 

c. Keep water boiling violently. /. Dry 2-5 min. in a hot oven; it is well, while rice is in 

oven, to shake or to toss it about with a fork so that 
the steam can escape. If preferred, place rice in a 
strainer and dry over a direct flame. 



FOOD ECONOMY 93 

Rice Cooked in a Double Boiler 

Ingredients: 

1 c raw rice, well washed 

4 c. boiling water, or a little less if rice is not very dry 

1 1. salt 

Method: 

1. Add the rice to the boiling salted water and boil 4-6 min. ; stir often with a 
fork. 

2. Place the mixture in a double boiler and cook until the rice is tender. 

3. If rice is at all moist, dry in oven before serving. 

Notes: 

1. If preferred, perform step 1, then place the rice in a fireless cooker and cook 2 hr., 
or until tender. 

2. Any of the following liquids may be substituted for water in the foregoing recipe; 
these liquids are also good for use with dextrinized rice: 

Milk, or half milk and half water 
Meat stock 
i Strained tomatoes and water or stock, as in Turkish pilaf 

Which of the above-named liquids may be used in boiling rice? 

3. Rice cooked in a double boiler (much whiter than boiled rice) is often served as a 
breakfast cereal; the. kernels do not keep separate, and the rice is more moist than either 
boiled or steamed rice. 

Steamed Rice 

(Recipe not used very frequently) 
Ingredients: 

1 a rice, measured after being treated as follows: 

a. Wash, then parboil 5 min. in a quantity of water. 

b. Drain, and rinse. 

2 c. boiling water 
It. salt 

Method: 

1. Mix all the ingredients and place them in a buttered baking dish. 

2. Cook 45 min., or until the rice is tender, in a regular steamer or a "steam 
cooker"; or if preferred, place the parboiled rice in a greased sieve, and steam 
over boiling water. 

Note: 

On the whole, steamed rice is preferable to boiled rice; the advantages of steamed rice 
over boiled rice are as follows: 

Kernels more distinct as a rule 
Less loss of starch and mineral matter 
Kernels much whiter in the case of polished rice 
Boiled rice has one great advantage in that it cooks much more quickly. 



94 



LESSONS IN COOKERY 

Luncheon 

Steamed beef and rice loaf Tomato sauce 

Mashed squash Lettuce with French dressing 

Bread and butter Tea 

Floating Island 



Class to serve the menu to a group of ten teachers or pupils at a minimum 
cost per plate; vary the menu, if preferred. 



Cott of Supplies 

(Pupil to supfly data) 



Supplies 


Quantity 


Cost 


Beef 






Bread 






Butter 






Coffee 




••••••••••%• 


Cream 






Eggs 






■"■*&&** • 

Lettuce 






Milk 






Oil \ 






Squash . A , 






Rice 






Seasonings 






Sugar (granulated and loaf) 






Tea 






Tomatoes 





































COMPLETE-DISH DRIED-LEGUME STEWS 



Dinner 



Lentil stew 



Corn cake 



Mock mincemeat pie 





Lentil Stew 


Ingredients: 


{6-8 servings) 


1 tb. cooked 


yi c. dry lentils 


lentils 




It. 


1 c. chopped celery, stalk or root 


It. 


H c. chopped onion 


to cover 


Water or stock to cover vegetables 


1 h. tb. 


1 c. potato cubes Off cubes) 




Thick brown gravy made from the following (see Note 1) 


lKt. 


y£ c. very brown flour 


Kt. 


4 tb. butter or bacon fat 


3tb. 


1}4 c. water, milk, or stock 


dash 


%-l t. salt 


dash 


yi t. paprika 


^frankfurter 


4 frankfurters, each 5* long 


2tb. 


1 c. tomatoes 



Method: 

1. Pick over and wash the lentils. 

2. Soak them over night in cold water to cover, then drain. (About l)i c. 
soaked lentils result from J^ c. dry ones.) 

3. Add the celery and onions, add water to cover, and simmer 1-3 hr., or until 
the three vegetables art. tender. Twenty minutes before these three vegetables 
are tender, add the potatoes; keep mixture well covered with water. * Five minutes 
before serving add the brown gravy and seasonings. At the last add frankfurters 
(cut in 1* pieces after the skins are removed) and tomatoes, boil 2-3 min., and serve. 

Notts: 

1. In preparing the gravy, use any of the three sauce methods, pages 70, 71. 

2. Cook the stew over night in a fireless cooker, if preferred. 

3. Lentil soup is made by thinning the lentil stew with water or stock. 

4. One may alter the proportions in this recipe as desired, inasmuch as all recipes for 
stews are very flexible; various additions and deductions of ingredients may be made. 
Note the following possible additions: 

Left-over meats, ham bones, etc. Celery salt 

Horseradish sauce Parsley 

Bacon ends or salt pork Sweet green pepper 

95 



96 LESSONS IN COOKERY 

Additional flavor is obtained by browning bacon with chopped celery, green pepper, 
and onion. For further suggestions as to seasonings, see list, page 60, under "Five Groups 
of Ingredients for Complete Dishes." 

5. Note possible substitutes for lentils in recipe: 

Dried beans of all kinds (kidney beans are particularly good) 
Dried peas, split or whole 
Raw peanuts 
Canned legumes, such as lentils or kidney beans, may be used in this recipe; likewise 
left-over baked beans. 

6. "To build up the tissues, a cheap form of protein is that contained in peas or beans, 
while eggs are eight times as expensive, and beef five times as expensive at ordinary prices. ,, l 
Note that abnormal prices exist at times; for example, lentils (imported), formerly $0.10 per 
lb., advanced in time of war to $0.25 per lb. 



1 Bailey, Sanitary and Applied Chemistry, page 368. 



COMPLETE-DISH FISH STEWS 



Luncheon 

Fish chowder 

Radish salad 



Crackers 
Brown-bread sandwiches 



Apple Betty 



Fish Chowder 



Ingredients: 


(4 servings) 




ltb. 


}i lb. any firm fish> white in color, 
following: 


cut in y£" cu 




Bass 


Haddock 




Cod, fresh 


White fish 


ltb. 


1 c. potatoes cut in yi" cubes 




ltb. 


yi, c. scalded milk 
Seasonings: 




2tb. 


%-l c. tomatoes, strained 




X'cube 


1" cube fat salt pork 




Xt. 


2 tb. onion, chopped 




Kt. 


yi tb. butter 




dash 


Salt 




dash 


Cayenne or paprika 




yi cracker 


2-6 crackers, each 2* in diameter 





Method: 

1. Saut6 pork and onion together. 

2. Add potatoes and water to cover and boil 10-15 min., or until potatoes are 
almost tender. (Why do the potatoes require a longer period for cooking than 
the fish?) 

3. Add the fish, and simmer about 10 min., or until the fish is tender. 

4. Add all the other ingredients, scald, and serve at once. 

Notes: 

1. Seasonings may be selected from the following, according to taste: 

Bay leaf Parsley 

Curry powder Vegetables (such as carrots) 

Herbs Worcestershire sauce 

Lemon juice Etc. 
For additional suggestions, see list, page 50, under "Five Groups of Ingredients for 
Complete Dishes." 

2. Strained tomatoes (in addition to the X-l c. tomatoes) may be substituted for 
milk in this recipe. 

97 



08 LESSONS IN COOKERY 

3. Either flour or beaten egg, in place of crackers, may be used as a thickening agent. 

4. Clams may be substituted for fish in this recipe, or the recipe for clam chowder, given 
below, may be used. 

5. Note two types of chowders: 

a. Those composed chiefly of carbohydrate material (such. as corn or potato 
chowder) 

b. Those composed of both protein and carbohydrate material (such as clam, 
lobster, or white-fish chowder) 

6. Chowders are stews, not soups; therefore avoid much liquid. 

Clam Chowder 

Ingredients: U servings) 

% c. minced clams, canned or fresh 
1 c. yi" potato cubes or yi" slices 
1 c. scalded milk 



V cube fat salt pork 
2 1. onion, chopped 
1 tb. butter 
^t. salt 
14 1. paprika 
H c. clam liquor 
2 crackers, each 2y£" square 

Method: 

1. Saute* pork and onion together. 

2. Add potatoes with water to cover and boil until potatoes are tender. 

3. Remove the pork, add all the other ingredients, bring them just to the 
boiling point, and serve at once. 

Note: 

Compare the food value of this recipe with that of an ordinary recipe for oyster stew. 



COMPLETE-DISH TURNOVERS 



Luncheon 



Meat turnovers Sauteed parsnips 




Boiled cabbage Bread and butter 




Lemon ice 




Meat Turnovers 


Ingredient 


i; (Eight 6 W turnovers) 






Dough — either of the following doughs: 






Pie-crust dough (see method, page 103): 


2tb. 




2 c. pastry flour 


Hash 




H t. salt 


Mtb. 




\i-% c. lard or a substitute 


Xt. 




yi c. cold water, or a little less 
Biscuit dough (see method, page 103): 


2tb. 




2 c. pastry flour (see Note 6) 


<jfl^fi 




yi t. salt 


Xt. 




4 t. baking powder 


X-Xt. 




2-4 tb. butter or a substitute 


It. 




% c. cold water or milk 
Meat filling (see Note 1) : 


It. 




5 tb. browned flour (golden) 


Het. 




# t. salt 


H a t. 




X t. paprika 


l^tb. 




1 c. milk 


l^tb. 




2 c. ground cooked meat • 



Method: 

1. Prepare the meat filling as follows : 

a. Mix the dry ingredients. 

b. Slowly add the milk to make a smooth paste, stir over the fire until 
thick and creamy, then add the meat. 

2. Roll the dough to J^" thickness and cut into 6" squares (or circles). 

3. In the center of each square place a large spoonful of meat filling. 

4. Form a square casing by folding the corners into the center; moisten edges 
and press together, leaving a dent in the center. 

5. Bake 15-30 min. in a hot oven; allow longer for pie crust than for biscuit 
dough. 

6. Serve with a hot sauce, such as brown or tomato sauce* 



100 LESSONS IN COOKERY 

Notes: 

1. Vary the filling as desired; select from the lists of protein foods, liquids, and season- 
ings given on pages 48 ff., "Five Groups of Ingredients for Complete Dishes." In general, 
cooked meat and fish are used, not raw. Either cottage cheese or grated American cheese 
may be substituted for meat by mixing either one with two-thirds as much thick white 
sauce as cheese. In the class recipe for one turnover, use 2 tb. of either cheese; 2 tb. 
chopped almonds also make an excellent turnover. A little mashed potato, or cooked 
cereal, such as rice, is sometimes added to any protein-food filling. 

2. The turnovers turn a very pretty brown if brushed with yolk of egg before being 
placed in the oven. 

3. If preferred, make 2-3 large turnovers, instead of 8 small ones, from this recipe. 

4. A small "roll" is made as follows, a large roll being made in a similar way: 

a. Mold a stiff protein-food filling into a roll about the size of the finger. 

b. Cut pie-crust dough into a strip, fold about the roll, and bake in a hot oven. 

5. Sweet turnovers, used as desserts, can be derived from the recipe for meat turnovers 
by substituting fruit for the meat filling. 

6. See list of wheat-flour substitutes, Appendix A, page 165. 



COMPLETE-DISH PIES 

Luncheon 

Meat pie Buttered carrots 

Lettuce Bread and butter 

Bread pudding 



Meat Pie 

This recipe is merely a general one; all expensive ingredients may be omitted. 

Method: 

1. Remove all bones, gristle, and excess fat from left-over meat, such as stewed 
or roasted meat. This meat may include any cheap or expensive cut of meat, 
such as beef, veal, mutton, pork, or chicken, used singly or in any combination. 

2. Cut meat into Yt-Y cubes or thin slices; if preferred, cut the meat into 
larger pieces, as in the case of chicken. Avoid cutting meat or vegetables as fine 
as for hash. 

3. If desired, mix meat with cooked vegetables cut into Yt-Y cubes, such as 
carrots, turnips, and potatoes; vegetables are not essential. 

4. Place in a deep baking dish and almost cover with a medium thick sauce; 
use any left-over meat gravy, or make up a sauce as follows: 

yi t. 2 tb. butter or a substitute 

It. 2 tb. flour 

3 tb. 1 c. liquid; use one or a combination of the following: 

Milk, cream, or water Tomatoes, strained 

Meat stock or liquor . Etc. 

5. Season well with any of the following: 

Celery salt Pepper (such as paprika) 

Herbs, dried Pepper, sweet green, minced 

Mushrooms Salt 

Onion, minced Tomatoes, sliced or strained 

Oysters Etc. 

6. Add a layer Y^-V deep of any of the starchy "covers," page 102. If 
plain pastry or biscuit dough is used, make openings in it for the Escape of steam. 

7. If desired, cover with a browning agent, such as beaten egg or buttered 
crumbs. Buttered crumbs are essential with macaroni or other flour paste, not 
only as a browning agent, but as a means of preventing the drying up of the paste. 

8. Bake 20-30 min., or until brown and hot throughout. 

101 



102 LESSONS IN COOKERY 

Note*: 

1. Individual pies or patties may be prepared, if preferred. 

2. The sides of the dish may be lined with dough, if desired. 

3. See pages 48ff., "Five Groups of Ingredients for Complete Dishes," for further 
suggestions as to each of the following: 

Vegetables 

Liquid 

Seasonings 

4. Various protein foods may be substituted for meat in this recipe; for example, note 
that good complete-dish pies can be made from fish; select from the meat-substitutes listed 
on page 48. 

5. Pies may be prepared as follows from raw meat and vegetables: 

a. .Place meat and vegetables in a baking dish, cover, and bake until nearly tender. 

b. Remove cover of dish, add crust, and bake until crust is done. 

A pie prepared from raw meat requires longer cooking than the same sized pie pre- 
pared from cooked meat. Increase the time for cooking according to any increase in the 
size of the pie. 

Discuss the question of possible food-poisoning from raw-meat pies. 

STARCHY COVERS OR TOP CRUSTS FOR COMPLBTB-DISH PIES 

The following varieties of covers or crusts may be used: 
Cereal, cooked (such as rice or hominy) 
. Flour pastes, cooked (such as macaroni) 
Soft stale bread crumbs 
Mashed potatoes 
Plain pastry 
Puff paste 
Baking-powder biscuit dough (see Note 3) 

Notes: 

1. Chicken fat is good for use in crusts for chicken pie. 

2. Two tb. cooked rice, macaroni or other flour paste is sufficient for one custard cup. 

3. See Appendix A, pages 165, 166, for a list of wheat-flour substitutes for use in 
biscuits, etc. 

4. Puff paste -is a very rich, flaky pastry. It is expensive, but good, especially with 
chicken. The class recipe, given on page 103, is sufficient for two custard cups. 

5. Each of the other class recipes given on page 103 is sufficient for but one custard cup. 



Ingredients: 

2tb. 

«t 
%t. 
dash 
dash 

Kt. 



Mashed Potatoes 



2 c. mashed potatoes 

2 t. baking powder 

1-3 tb. fat 

#t.salt 

yi t. white pepper 

Hot milk or cream to moisten; use 4 tb. or more 



FOOD ECONOMY 



103 



Plain Pastry 

Ingredients: 

2 tb. 2 c. pastry flour 

dash % t. salt 

V* tb. }4-% c. fat 

H t. H- l A c water 

Method: 

1. Mix the dry ingredients. 

2. Chop in the fat by means of two knives. 

3. Add the water, and with as little mixing as possible make into a dough. 



Ingredients: 

4 tb. pastry 

flour 
1M-2 tb. 
ltb. 



Puff Paste 



l}4 c bread flour, sifted once 

1 c. butter (washed), butterine, or chicken fat 

Ice-water 



Method: 

See any standard cookbook. 



Ingredients: 

2tb. 
Hi. 
da*fo 
Kt. 
l-i# t. 



Baking-Powder Biscuit Dough 



2 c. pastry flour 
4 t. baking powder 

yi t. salt , 

2-4 tb. butter or a substitute 

% c. milk or water for a molded dough (use more liquid for a drop 
dough) 



Method: 

1. Sift the dry ingredients together two or three times. 

2. Chop in the fat. 

3. Add the liquid, and with as little mixing as possible make into a dough. 



Note: 

An excellent cover is derived from this recipe by chopping in mashed potatoes at the 
same time with the fat, using the following ingredients: 



2tb. 
Ht. 

Mtb. 

ltb. 

K-lt. 



2 c. pastry flour 

4 t. baking powder 

yit. salt 

}4 c. fat 

1 c. cold mashed potatoes, white or sweet (very dry) 

Milk for a soft dough (about 1-4 tb.) 



104 



Meat pie 

Buttered carrots 



LESSONS IN COOKERY 
Dinner 

Caramel ice cream 



Sauteed tomatoes 
Bread and butter 



Class to serve the menu to a group of ten teachers or pupils at a minimum 
cost per plate; vary the menu, if preferred. 

Cost of Supplies 
(Pupil to supply data) 



Supplies 



Quantity 



Cost 



Meat 

Potatoes (for crust) 

Turnips 

Tomatoes 

Carrots 

Bread 

Butter 

Milk 

Eggs 

Sugar 

Total 



PART IV 
COOKING OF THE CHEAPER MEAT CUTS 



SUGGESTIONS FOR LESSONS 

Meat Stews 

28. Beef stew with dumplings 

29. Choice of the following stews: lambs' kidneys, liver and bacon, tripe rolls 

Braised Meats 

30. Beef, either kettle-braised or oven-braised 

Meats Cooked with Acids 

31. Sour beef, baked. Stuffed baked potatoes 

Broiled Meat Balls 

32. Meat balls prepared from raw meat. Brown gravy 

Protein-Pood Croquettes 

33. Meat croquettes 

Meat Stock 

34. Soup stock 



INTRODUCTION 
TOUGHER MEAT CUTS AS A SOURCE OF ECONOMY 

Three chief points are to be considered with regard to the digestibility of meat ; 
palatability may have more or less influence with respect to some of them. These 
three points are: 

I. Ease of digestion. 
II. Length of time food stays in stomach (a less important point). 
III. Ultimate digestibility (by far the most important point of all). 
The vital fact to be emphasized is this: The ultimate quantity of meat digested 
is about the same, no matter what the: 

1. Animal, 

2. Cut (tough or tender) 

3. Method of cooking 

"The most extended scientific work on the cooking of meats has been carried 
on at the University of Illinois. At that institution Professor H. S. Grindley, 
with a corps of able assistants, has been working since 1904 on some of the 
problems of cooking meat. .... 

"The work of Professor Grindley indicates that the digestibility of meat is 
not dependent upon the cut of meat. He finds that a cut of meat from the shoulder 
digests about as readily and completely as one from the loin, the differences in 
digestibility being too small to be considered. He also finds that the method 
of cooking has little effect on the nutritive value of the meat. He says, 'In 
general the various methods of cooking materially modify the appearance, texture, 
and flavor of the meat, and hence its palatability, but have little effect on the 
total nutritive value.' 

" If this be true, then one may choose a cut of meat from any place in the animal 
he wishes and cook it as he pleases, and yet in the end have meat that is equally 
nutritive and digestible, if its composition is the same to begin with." 1 

Note: 

The following are valuable bulletins on meats: 

Bulletin 158, University of Illinois Agr. Exp. Sta., "Relative Economy, Composition 

and Nutritive Value of the Various Cuts of Beef." 
Circular 206, University of Illinois Agr. Exp. Sta., "Essentials in the Selection of Beef." 
Circular 71, University of Illinois Agr. Exp. Sta., "Roasting of Beef." 
Bulletin 162, U.S. Dept. of Agr., Office of Exp. Sta., "The Influence of Cooking upon 

the Nutritive Value of Meats." 
Bulletin IQ3, U.S. Dept. of Agr., Office of Exp. Sta., "Effect of Cooking upon Diges- 
tion of Meat." 

1 Flora H. Greene, "The Amount of Edible Meat in the Various Cuts," Journal of Home 
Economics, October, 1910, page 423. 

107 



108 LESSONS IN COOKERY 

THE USES OF TOUGH OR CHEAP MEATS 

J. Uses of chopped meat, including fresh meat and left-over cooked meat: 

Creamed meat on toast Mince meat 

Hash Sandwiches containing raw or cooked meat 

Meat balls, saut^ed Souffles 

Meat croquettes, fried Tamales 

Meat loaf Turnovers and rolls, baked 

Meat roll (large), braised Etc. r 

II. Uses of meat left in medium-sized pieces: 
Meat pies Stews 

Soup Etc. 

III. Uses of meat left in large pieces: 

Braised meat 

Steamed meat (meat placed in a perforated steamer over boiling water 
or in a "steam cooker") 

IV. Miscellaneous uses: 

Beef juice 

Beef tea 

Bouillon cubes 

Meat extract \ Chiefl - V «*™™ C M 



Noie$ 






1. Tender cuts may be used in the same ways as the tougher cuts. 

2. The chopping of tough meat breaks up the connective tissue and thus makes the 
meat tender. Chopped meat is much used in the complete-dish series. 

3. The essential agent for softening tough connective tissue is long-continued cooking 
in water at a moderate temperature; see its use in most of the dishes just listed. Collagen 
is converted by hydrolysis into gelatin, which is soluble in hot water. Most of the low- 
temperature methods for the prolonged cooking of tough meats call for cooking in water 
which is not allowed to reach the boiling point. These same low-temperature methods 
are also much used with fish, legumes, and other protein foods. Some of these methods 
are as follows: 

a. Retained heat, that is, by use of fireless cookers 

b. Direct heat; see use of each of the following: 

Kettle on back of range 
Kettle over a tiny flame called a "simmerer" 
Double boiler (used occasionally with stews, etc.) 
Steamer 

Casserole, that is, a heavy earthenware dish with a closely fitting cover; 
used as a baking dish. Most casseroles are suitable for the dining table. 
Several recipes for the use of the casserole are given in this book, for 
instance: 

Escalloped dishes (pages 75 ff .) 
Meat pie (page 101) 
Baked beans (page 143) 



FOOD ECONOMY 



109 



4. Note additional agents for softening the tough connective tissue of meats, to be 
used as desired in any of the dishes listed in the preceding tabulation: 

a. Acid: 

(1) Acid developed in meat by long hanging 

(2) Vinegar 

b. Freezing 

c. Mechanical means, such as: 

(1) Chopping or grinding, as in Hamburg steak 

(2) Hacking with a knife or fork 

(3) Pounding 

(4) Scoring, as in flank steak 

THE COOKING OF MEATS IN GENERAL! A SYNOPSIS 



Quality 



Cuts 



Aim in Cooking 



Methods op Cooking 



First-quality; that is, 
in general, the tender- 
est and most expen- 
sive meats 



Second-quality . 



Third-quality; that is, 
in general, the tough- 
est and least expen- 
sive meats 



Ribs 

Porterhouse 
Sirloin 
Tenderloin 



Chuck 

Round 

Ribs, short 

Rump 

Shoulder 

Etc. 



Flank 

Neck 

Plate 

Shank 

Etc. 



To develop flavor, to 
retain all. or nearly 
all of the juices within 
the meat 

To develop flavor, to 
soften connective tis- 
sue, and to retain 
juices 

In some cases, to extract 
part of the juices for 
gravy and to keep the 
remainder within the 
meat 

To develop flavor, to 
soften connective tis- 
sue, in some cases to 
retain juices, and in 
other cases to extract 
all of the bone and 
meat juices 



Broiling, grill or pan 

Frying 

Oven-roasting 

Sauteing 

Etc. 



Broiling 

Braising (kettle or oven) 

Broiling 

Steaming 

Stewing 

Etc. 



Soup 

Mince meat 
Beef loaf 
Hamburg 
Etc. 



Noie$; 

1. This table is more or less arbitrary, since some of the methods of cooking could well 
be entered in more than one column. The word "juices" is meant in general to imply 
the flavoring material and the nutriment soluble in the liquid of the meat. 

2. First-quality meats are usually cooked in large pieces; second-quality in either large 
or small pieces; and third-quality in small pieces. 

3. The table applies in a general way to fish; most vertebrate fish are cooked by the 
first- or second-quality methods, and the aims in cooking are those stated above. 



110 



LESSONS IN COOKERY 



4. Study the effect of each of the following with respect to the extraction and retention 
of meat and fish juices, noting the value of experiments and of chart work: 

Soaking in cold water 
Salt 

Size of pieces of meat or fish 
Heat, dry or moist 
Temperature, high or low 
What is meant by searing of meat or fish? What is the effect of continued high tempera- 
ture upon protein foods in general, such as meat and fish? 

5. Pupil to experiment as follows, and note results: 

a. Heat connective tissue 3-5 min. in a dry pan. 

b. Cover connective tissue with water, and simmer 15-30 min. 

c. Cover pieces of bone, tendon, and cartilage with water and simmer several 
hours. 

ACTUAL COSTS OF MENUS 

The following are specimen tables whereby the pupil can prove that any given 
menu is or is not economical. 1 



Dinner for six persons (See page 112) 
Beef stew with dumplings 
Lettuce 



Baked potatoes 
Bread and butter 



Fresh fruit 



Materials 



Beef, shin or other lean part 

Beef, rib trimmings, partly fat 

Dumplings 

Potatoes 

Bread 

Butter 

Lettuce 

Vegetables and thickening for stew, etc. 
Grapefruit, 3 small 



Volume 



Weight 



12 
6 

6 slices 
6tb. 
2 heads 



8 

8 

12 

6 
3 



Cost 



$0.21 
0.13 
0.03 
0.03 
0.04 
0.08 
0.10 
0.03 
0.30 



SO. 95 



Calories 



800 

1,830 

1,068 

620 

456 

1,350 

75 

176 

640 



7,035 



Such a menu could be served in the fall months at a trifle more than one cent 
per 100 calories. 

Almost 1,200 calories per person are allowed for the meal, which is supposed 
to furnish two-fifths of the total calories for the day — that is, 3,000 calories per 
person. 

* Both tables were compiled on the basis of the prices current in April, 1918. 



Dinner for six penom (See page 120) 
Beef pot-roast 
Carrots 



FOOD ECONOMY 



Cranberry pie 



111 



Boiled rice 
Bread and butter 



Materials 



Volume 



Weight 


lb. 


oz. 


2 




1 


11 


1 


. . 




6 




3 


1 


8 



Cost 



Calories 



Beef, round, medium fat. 

iGce, boiled , 

Carrots 

Bread 

Butter 

Cranberry pie 



4J4c. 

6-12 

6 slices 

6tb. 

9 in. diam. 



$0.60 
0.22 
0.05 
0.09 
0.08 
0.25 



$1.29 



1,740 

1,215 

160 

456 

1,350 



7,210 



This menu costs nearly two cents per 100 calories. It is a good example of 
the low cost of a meal when somewhat daintier dishes are served than are usual 
in a meal costing less than $0.22 per person. 

It may thus be seen that by a judicious combination of fewer and more 
costly foods an economical and well-balanced meal can be furnished. 



MEAT STEWS 

Dinner 

Beef stew with dumplings Baked potatoes 

Lettuce Bread and butter 

Fresh fruit 



TYPES OF MEAT FOR STEWS 

The tougher cuts of meat may be used in all stews. Except for reasons of 
economy the tender cuts may be used also. It is possible to make any tough meat 
tender by long-continued cooking at low temperature. 

Almost any combination of meats, or of meats and vegetables, may be used in 
stews. All recipes for stews allow considerable variation, according to taste; 
for example, in the recipe for beef stew, page 113, omit all vegetables if preferred, 
or substitute lamb, mutton, veal, or other meat wholly or in part for the beef. 

Stews may also be prepared from left-over cold meat, such as roast or steak. 

The items preceded by an asterisk in the following list usually are among the 
very inexpensive stewing cuts: 

BBBF MISCELLANEOUS MEATS AND CUTS 



♦Chuck 


Veal 


Chicken 


Round 


Mutton 


♦Lambs' kidneys 


♦Shin 


Lamb 


♦Liver and bacon 


♦Oxtails, cut in joints 


Pork 


Etc. 


*Skirt steak, cut in 1* 


Rabbit and other 


. 


squares 


game 




♦Tripe 







Hungarian Goulash 
Ingredients: 

2 lb. lean beef, cut in 1" cubes (such as flank, rump, or round) 

3 medium onions, chopped 

9 medium raw potatoes, cut in J4 ff slices 

Strained tomatoes (about l>^-2 c.) 

1 1. paprika (Hungarian red pepper), or to color stew almost red 

Method: 

1. Brown meat and onions in a very little beef suet. 

2. Add paprika and 1 c. tomatoes, then cover, and simmer 1^ hr., or until 
meat is almost tender. 

3. Add potatoes, salt, and tomatoes almost to cover; cover pan, and simmer 
until potatoes are tender. (No water is added to Hungarian goulash.) 

4. Place on a platter, add a border of noodles, and garnish with strips of 
cooked carrots and green peppers. 

112 



FOOD ECONOMY 



113 



Beef Stew with Dumplings 



Ingredients: 




4or5cubescut 


4>£ lb. fresh raw beef 


#"sq. 






Vegetables, measured after being cut into H-l" cubes or slices: 


1 cube 


yi c. onions 


1 h. tb. 


y£-l c. carrots 


1 h. tb. 


K-l c. turnips 


\yi h. tb. 


3-4 c. potatoes 


to cover 


Cold water, barely to cover stew 


to taste 


Seasonings to taste, selected from the following: 




Salt (essential) Cloves 




Pepper (such as paprika) Celery salt 




Parsley Mushrooms 




Bay leaf and other herbs Bacon 




Thickening paste (smooth) : 


It. 


4 tb. flour 


2t. 


4 tb. tepid or cold water 




Possible additions: 




Milk or cream for making a richer gravy 




Suet drippings (see Note 2) 




Dumplings (mixed the same as biscuits) : 


2tb. 


2 c. pastry flour (see Note 10) 


Kt. 


4 t. baking powder 


dash 


yit. salt 


Ht. 


2 t. fat 


1 1. (about) 


Milk or water for a soft dough, that is, % c. or a little more 



Method: 

1. Clean meat and bones, chop both in 1-2" cubes, and remove any excess fat. 

2. Dredge with flour, salt, and pepper. 

3. Place meat in a hot saut&ng pan containing a very little fat, such as beef 
suet, and brown well on all sides; use just enough fat to grease the pan and prevent 
sticking (see Note 4). 

4. Place meat in cold water to cover, cover saucepan, and bring water quickly 
to the boiling point. 

5. Simmer at a temperature of 180° F., or 82° C, for remainder of time, that is, 
3-4 hr., or until meat is tender. Add vegetables 3^-1 hr. before stew is done. 

6. Evaporate the liquid to such an extent that part, at least, of the vege- 
tables, meat, and bone stand well out of the liquid. 

7. Drop the dumplings on top of the vegetables, meat, and bone; do not let 
them sink into the liquid. Cover tight, and steam 12-20 min. without raising the 
cover. Boil the stew gently (do not simmer) so as to generate enough steam to 
cook the dumplings (the boiling of the stew for this short time will have no appre- 
ciable effect in toughening the meat). 



114 LESSONS IN COOKERY 

8. Remove the meat, vegetables, and dumplings to a hot platter by means 
of a skimmer; discard any large bones. 

9. Stirring constantly, add the thickening paste to the liquid and simmer 
2-3 min., or until creamy. Allow 1 tb. flour to 1 c. stew liquid. 

10. Pour the gravy over the meat and form a border of dumplings. 

11. Garnish. Parsley or celery tips make a good garnish. 

Notes: 

1. Seasonings may be added at almost any time, but preferably at the beginning of 
the cooking. 

2. Add drippings to the stewpan in step 4 in case the meat is extremely lean. 

3. Brown stew results from the use of this method. Plain stew, or that which is not 
browned, is made in the same way as the brown stew, except that steps 2 and 3 are omitted. 
By the use of the same method as for beef, any other raw meat, such as veal or mutton, 
also can be made into either a brown or a plain stew. The time required for stews varies 
from 1 to 5 hr. according to the kind and quantity of meat used. 

4. Note the necessity of a high temperature for developing the flavoring substances of 
foods in general — for example, those found in meat. Beware, however, of toughening the 
meat protein by cooking at a long-continued high temperature. 

5. A stewpan, or a meat-stock pan, should be kept covered, or good flavoring material 
is lost by evaporation; note the tempting odor of meat that is being cooked. 

6. With all stews, use water barely to cover the meat; as the water evaporates, add a 
little more from time to time. 

7. If preferred, instead of simmering the meat, cook it in a fireless cooker or in a double 
boiler. With either of the latter methods allow more time than in simmering. Why? 
If the fireless cooker is used, the stew must be reheated when the vegetables are added. 

8. Do not remove the scum, that is, the albumin, from stew or soup. Why? 

9. Either of the following may be substituted for dumplings in forming the border: 

Potatoes, mashed (using pastry tube or not, and browning potatoes in oven, 

if desired) 
Rice, steamed or boiled 

10. See Appendix A, pages 165, 166, for a list of wheat-flour substitutes for use in 
dumplings, etc. 

11. Occasionally one of the following,starchy materials is substituted for flour paste 
as a thickening agent in a stew: 

Cornstarch paste (sometimes used in chop suey) 

Bread or cracker crumbs 

Sago or tapioca 

Spaghetti, noodles, etc. 

Cereal (such as rice, pearl barley, or rolled oats) 

12. "Boiled dinner" of corned beef and vegetables is somewhat related to a meat- 
vegetable stew. It differs from stew in the following ways: 

Meat is in large, not small pieces. 
Liquor is not all utilized for gravy. 
Etc. 



FOOD ECONOMY 115 

Dumplings 

Ingredients: 

The same as for baking-powder biscuits (soft-dough 3:1) except for a very great reduc- 
tion in the fat, all fat sometimes being omitted. Dumplings may also be made from sour- 
milk biscuit dough. 

Method- 

1. Mix as for biscuits. (See page 103.) 

2. Cook in any of the three following ways: 

a. Follow steps 6 and 7 of the method for beef stew, page 113 (see Note 1). 
6. Put dumplings either in a greased sieve or on a greased plate in a 
steamer. Place the sieve or steamer over any one of the following 
and steam 15-20 min. (see Note 2): 
Kettle of boiling water 

Kettle in which potatoes or other vegetables are boiling 
Stew itself, if kept boiling; or, if preferred, remove the meat and 
vegetables and boil the liquid only, not the entire stew. 
c. Bake the dumplings as biscuits. 
With all three processes, begin to cook dumplings 12-30 min. before the stew 
is done, and either drop dough by the spoonful, or roll it on board to \tf thickness 
and cut with a biscuit-cutter. Either a teaspoon or a tablespoon may be used 
for dropping the dumplings. 
Notes: 

1. In the method for beef stew, page 113, the gravy is thickened after the dumplings 
are done; this is a safe rule for all stews, since a thickened gravy is very likely to scorch 
during the 12-20 min. of boiling necessary for the cooking of the dumplings. 

2. Process b is a better one than Process a, since dumplings are less likely to be soggy 
if cooked separate from the stew. The top of the double boiler is an excellent stewpan 
for use in class. Shape the dumpling with a biscuit-cutter, and steam 12-15 min. in a 
greased sieve placed over stew; keep the pan tightly covered. 

3. Dumplings, like all other baking-powder biscuit mixtures, require quick cooking. 
The time for cooking dumplings varies according to their size. 

4. Soggy dumplings are usually slow to digest. Why? 

Stew Prepared from Cooked Meat 

Method: 

1. Remove all bones, cartilage, and excess fat from left-over beef, mutton, 
or any other meat. Steak or roast is excellent. 

2. Cut meat in small cubes or in small thin slices. 

3. Add any of the following raw vegetables: 

Carrots j Celery ) 

Potatoes [cut in small cubes Onions j dl< W )e( * 

Turnips J Etc. 

4. Almost cover with water or soup stock. 

5. Simmer until the vegetables are tender. 



116 



LESSONS IN COOKERY 



6. Add the following seasonings to taste: 

Parsley, chopped 
Pepper and salt 

7. Thicken liquid with a flour paste. 



Curry 
Tomatoes 



Notes: 

1. The discarded bones are a good addition to the soup kettle. 

2. Cooked vegetables may be added to the stew in place of raw ones. 

3. Avoid overcooking tender meat. Why? 

4. Thin slices of cold cooked mutton are palatable heated in the following brown gravy: 

2 tb. butter or a substitute 
2 tb. browned flour 
1 tb. bottled meat sauce 
Jl tb. red-currant jelly 
1 c. water or stock 



Luncheon 

Beef stew 

Parkerhouse rolls 

Baked apples with whipped cream 



Stuffed baked potatoes 
Pickles 
Coffee 



Class to serve the menu to a group of ten teachers or pupils at a minimum 
cost per plate; vary the menu, if preferred. 

Cost of Supplies 

(Pupil to supply data) 



Supplies 



Quantity 



Cost 



Apples 

Beef 

Butter 

Coffee 

Cream 

Flour 

Milk 

Pickles 

Potatoes , 

Sugar (granulated and loaf) 

Vegetables for stew 

Yeast 

Total 



FOOD ECONOMY 117 

Irish Stew 

Ingredients: 

3 lb. neck of mutton or lamb, cut in 1* cubes 

4-6 onions, sliced 

4-6 potatoes, cut in yi* cubes 

Salt and pepper 

Method: 

1. Add the onions to the meat, cover with water, and simmer 2-3 hr. ; add the 
potatoes about 15 min. before the meat is tender. Add dumplings, if desired. 

2. Thicken the liquor with a flour paste, season, and serve. 

Note: 

Carrots and turnips may be added. 

Stewed Lambs' Kidneys 



Ingredients: 


(6 servings) 


>£ kidney 


6 kidneys 


tft." 


3 tb. flour 


Kt. 


2 tb. bacon fat 




1 c. thin gravy (see Note 1) : 


Xt. 


1 tb. onion, chopped fine 


Kt. 


1 tb. bacon fat 


Kt. 


1 tb. flour 


2tb. 


1 c. water or stock 


dash 


Kt. salt 


dash 


Pepper 



Method: 

1. Remove skin from kidneys, then soak them 15 min. in cold water to cover. 

2. Drain, dry, cut in very thin slices, then remove any tough tubular cores 
by means of shears. 

3. Sprinkle with 3 tb. flour, and saute* 2-3 min. in 2 tb. bacon fat. 

4. Add the kidneys to the thin gravy, and simmer 2-5 min., or until the kid- 
neys are tender. 

6. Place on toast and garnish with parsley. 

Notes: 

1. In making the gravy, saute* together the onion and bacon fat, then proceed by any 
of the methods for white sauces and their derivatives, pages 70 f. 

2. Add a little lemon juice to the stew, if desired. 

3. One-half a beef kidney may be substituted for the six lambs' kidneys. 

4. Lambs' kidneys formerly cost $0.01 to $0.02 each. 

5. Examine the structure of a kidney. 

6. Stewed kidneys, as well as the two following recipes, are nutritious and also inexpensive. 



118 



LESSONS IN COOKERY 



Stewed Liver and Bacon 

Ingredients; (2-4 servings) 

% c. beef liver cut in y£* cubes (about H lb.) 

2 tb. onion, chopped 

yi c. bacon ends cut in %* cubes 

Water to cover 

He t. powdered sage 

Pepper 

Thickening paste: 

2 tb. flour 

3 tb. cold water 
Method; 

1. Soak liver 10 min. in cold water to cover. 

2. Drain, cover with fresh water, heat just to the simmering point, then drain. 

3. Brown the onion in bacon fat. 

4. Mix liver with all the other ingredients except the flour paste, and simmer 
gently 15-30 min., or until the meat is tender. 

6. Thicken the gravy with the flour paste, season, and serve on toast. 





Stewed Tripe Rolls or "Birds" 


Ingredients: 


(4-6 servings) 


1 strip 


yi lb. boiled tripe, cut in 7 or 8 strips, each 4*X1K* (see Note 1 


4"X1#' 


for directions for boiling tripe) 




Stuffing, made by mixing together the following ingredients: 


It. 


2 tb. cooked lean ham or bacon, chopped 


2t. 


X c. coarse cracker crumbs 


yit. 


1 tb. chopped sweet green or red pepper 


few drops 


Water to moisten (about 2y£ tb.) 




Tomato sauce (see Note 2) : 


Kt 


yi tb. butter or a substitute 


Xt. 


1 tb. chopped onion 


spk. 


}i bay leaf 


spk. 


}i t. chopped parsley 


tft. 


yi tb. flour 


dash 


yi t. paprika 


dash 


yi t. salt 


2tb. 


X c. strained tomatoes 


4 tb. water 





Method: 

1. Spread each strip of tripe with stuffing, roll, and fasten with string. 

2. Roll each "bird" in fine cracker crumbs and saute* 5 min., or until slightly 
brown, in 1-2 t. bacon fat. 

3. Add the rolls to the tomato sauce, cover, simmer 5-15 min., then remove 
the bay leaf. 

4. Add more salt and paprika, if desired, place on toast, and garnish. 



FOOD ECONOMY 



119 



Notes: 

1. To prepare honeycomb or plain tripe for use in various recipes: 

a. Secure raw tripe from which the butcher has removed the outside coating, 
and wash in several waters. 

b. Cover with a very large quantity of cold water, and simmer 3 hr., or until very 
tender; change the water 2-4 times during the first half of the period of 
cooking so as to remove the strong odor and flavor. If desired, add chopped 
onion and parsley, cloves, and peppercorns to the water in the beginning. 

The water in which tripe has been boiled contains considerable gelatin and some other 
nourishment. Use for this left-over water? 

2. In making the tomato sauce saute* the first four ingredients together 2-3 min., then • 
add the flour. Add the other ingredients, and simmer 2-5 min. 

3. Stuffed rolls are good if sauteed and then baked. 

4. Tripe is lacking in extractives and color, hence it is well to add high seasoning and 
bright colors, such as: 



Cabbage leaves (a good addition 

to stuffing) 
Onions 
Parsley 



Pimentos (used either as a garnish or as 

part of the stuffing) 
Tomatoes 
Etc. 



VARIOUS KINDS OF STEWS (CHIEFLY MEAT 

(Pupil to supply data) 



Stew 



Chile con carne. 

Chop suey 

Chowder 

Fricassee 

Goulash 

Haggis 

Haricot 

Irish 

Kedgeree 

Kolcannon 

Ragout 

Salmi. . .". 



Typical Ingredients 



Any Peculiarity 
of Method 



Nationality 



Note: 



See recipe for dried-legume stew on page 95; chowder, pages 97, ! 



BRAISED MEATS 

Dtrmtr 

Beef pot-roast Boiled rice 

Carrots Bread and butter 

Cranberry pie 



Braising is a combination of baking, steaming, and stewing. It is applied to 
meat, poultry, game, and fish. 

The three types of meat used in braising are as follows: 

Solid piece of meat (any meat, poultry, or viscera, such as liver) 
Roll of sliced meat (such as rolled steak or mock duck) 
A roll of chopped meat 

FOUR TYPES OF BRAISING 

7. Kettle-braising, or pot-roasting. 
Place kettle over a low flame. 

77. Fireless-cooker braising: 

Cook food for a few minutes over a fire, then cook until tender in the cooker; 
if necessary, brown in oven before serving. 

277. High-pressure-cooker braising. 

IV. Oven-braising, or oven-stewing. 

In oven-braising, follow the same rules as for kettle-braising, but place the 
meat on a rack in a dripping or braising pan, cover, and bake in a slow oven; 
temperature, etc., are the same as for pot-roast. Water in the pan should reach 
almost to the rack; an average rule is to add 1 c. water to each pound of meat. 
Allow Yr\ hr. to each pound of meat. If desired, sear the meat at the begin- 
ning in a saut&ng pan so as to develop flavor and prevent the escape of juices. 

A casserole is often substituted for a dripping pan. 

Notes: 

1, All the types are excellent for use with tough meats, or those requiring long, slow 
cooking. The slower the process of cooking, the tenderer the meat; low-temperature 
apparatus is essential. The utensils should be covered tight during the whole period of 
cooking; therefore no basting is necessary. 

2. With any of the four types, place vegetables around the meat before cooking, if 
desired; vegetables are not essential. 

120 



FOOD ECONOMY 



121 



Pot-Roast, or Meat Cooked by Kettle-Braising 

Pot-roast consists of a solid piece of meat, to which a very little water is added. 
It is cooked in a kettle on top of the stove; the water finally evaporates and the 
meat is browned. The average size of a roast is 3-6 lb. Beef is generally used. 

Method; 

1* Place a very little suet in a hot iron kettle. 

2* Add meat and sear on all sides; browning of the meat adds to the flavor. 
The following semi-tough beef cuts are desirable: • 

Round Shoulder 

Rump Etc. 

3. Add salt and pepper. If meat is very lean, add fat to it; for example, 
fasten strips of fat salt pork to the top surface, or lard with the strips. 

4. Add }^-l c. boiling water or stock, or just enough to keep the meat from 
burning. . 

6. Cover tight with a tin lid in which there is a hole for a thermometer; in- 
sert a thermometer. 

6. Place over the "simmerer," and keep at 185° F., or 85° C, for 4-5 hr., or 
until the meat is tender; allow 1-134 hr. per lb of meat. The water should show 
no motion. Turn the roast once or twice during the period of cooking, and as the 
water evaporates add a little more from time to time. 

7. Place meat on platter. 

8. Add a little boiling water to kettle and thicken with a flour and water paste. 
Strain gravy and place on platter with meat or in a gravy boat. 

9. Garnish with parsley and cooked spaghetti. 

Notes: 

1. The following spices and herbs, usually tied in a bag, are often added to the kettle: 

Bay leaf Peppercorns 

Cloves Red pepper (not ground) 

2. Suggested proportions for pot-roast are as follows: 



a. 2 lb. meat b. 3 lb. beef from lower 

2 c. parsnips round or rump 

2 c. carrots }4 c. each of diced 

2 c. cabbage or carrots, turnips, and 

turnips celery 

2 c. rutabagas 1 onion 

1 onion Seasonings: 

Seasonings 2 thin slices, salt pork 

j4 t. peppercorns 
3 cloves 
1 bay leaf 
yi t. salt 
3. The pot-roast is improved if, at the beginning, vegetables are placed in the bottom 
of the kettle; only enough water is added to keep the vegetables from burning. Serve vege- 
tables on the platter in a circle about the meat. Tomatoes may be added when the meat 
is about done. 

9 



c. 3-6 lb. meat 

yi-\ c. of each of the 
following vegetables, 
diced: 
Carrots 
Celery 
Turnips 
Onions 
Etc. 
Seasonings 



122 LESSONS IN COOKERY 

4. Some authorities advise placing the meat on a support in the bottom of the kettle, 
such as a rack or bones or covers of cans. 

5. Pot-roast may be used for a class exercise if the tender or more expensive meat is 
purchased; tough meat cannot be cooked tender even in two long class periods. Satisfac- 
tory results may be secured by cooking the following recipe for 30-45 min,: 

1 cube lean tender meat, 1-1K* square 
1 thin strip fat salt pork 
1 small piece suet 

1 tb. vegetable cubes (X* 

2 peppercorns 
2-4 tb. water 
Thickening paste: 

X t. flour 
1 1. water 
The class recipe as given is also satisfactory for oven-braising, and should be baked 
30-45 min. in either of the following utensils: 
Small casserole 

Custard cup, with a small pie tin as a cover 
A rack is not needed in cooking the class recipe of either the pot- or oven-braised 
meat; however, the cover of a very small baking-powder can serves very well as a rack in 
either case. 



Stuffed Heart 

(Similar to a pot-roast) 

Method: 

1. Wash a beef heart thoroughly inside and out, and stuff with the following 
mixture: 

1 c. broken bread, dipped in fat and browned in the oven 

1 onion, chopped 

Salt and pepper to taste 

Sage to taste 

2. Sew up the opening. 

3. Cover the heart with water and simmer 2% hr., or until tender; or boil 
10 min., then cook 6-8 hr. in the fireless cooker. 

4. Remove from the water about J^ hr. before serving; dredge with flour, 
pepper, and salt, or sprinkle with crumbs, and bake until brown. 

Note$: 

1. Two veal, mutton, or pork hearts may be substituted for the one beef heart; allow 
about half as much time for cooking. 

2. Bake the hearts for the full period of cooking, if preferred; baked fresh beef tongues 
are also very good and cheap. 

3. From the standpoint of nutrition, beef or veal hearts are almost the cheapest, if not 
the cheapest, meats per pound that can be bought. 



FOOD ECONOMY 



123' 



Steak Roll, or Mock Duck 

(Either kettle- or oven-braised) 
Method: 

1. Wipe, trim, and remove as much tough membrane as possible from a steak 
of any animal; tough beefsteak cut Yl-W thick is ordinarily used, such as any 
one of the following steaks: 

Flank steak, scored by butcher 

Round steak 

Skirt steak, scored by butcher 

2. Spread with stuffing. Mix the following ingredients in order to prepare 
stuffing for either steak roll or " meat-birds' ' as given in Note 2 (the class recipe 
is sufficient for one meat bird) : 

2 tb. 4 c. coarse stale bread crumbs or %* cubes 

dash 1 1. salt 

dash % t. pepper (such as paprika) 

yi t. 4 tb. butter or a substitute (such as drippings) 

spk. 4 tb. chopped onion, saut£ed with the fat 

to taste Optional seasonings: 

Celery salt 

Green pepper, chopped 

Herbs (such as sage, summer savory, and thyme) 

Lambs' kidneys, chopped 

Olives, chopped 

Parsley, chopped 

Tomato, chopped 
Liquid to moisten, selected from the following: 
few drops Cold water, stock, op milk 

yi t. Raw egg (used only in combination with other 

liquids) 

3. Roll as for a jelly roll and fasten with string or skewers. 

4. Place several strips of fat salt pork over the top surface. 
6. Cook in any of the following ways, allowing %-lH hr. * 

a. Kettle-braise, or pot-roast; add a very little liquid to kettle. 

6. Oven-braise; add a very little liquid to dripping pan or casserole. 

c. Steam or stew until almost tender, then brown in oven. 

d. Bake in oven as an ordinary roast; allow 50-60 min.; this method is 
not advisable if meat is very tough. 

Class to cook four steaks by the four methods, respectively, then compare as 
to flavor, texture, etc. 

6. Place on a platter and add a gravy prepared from the liquor in the pan. 

7. Serve with currant or other tart jelly. 

Notts: 

1. Tender meat, as well as tough, may be used for steak roll or for meat-birds, as described 
in Note 2. Fish also may be prepared as a roll or as birds. 



124 LESSONS IN COOKERY 

2. "Meat-birds" is the name applied to small stuffed rolls of steak or other meat; they 
are good as a class exercise, and are made as follows: 

a. Cut any of the following raw meats into thin slices about 4" by 2": 

Round steak 
Veal cutlet 

Pork-tenderloin cut crosswise and pounded until flat 
Etc. 
Slices of left-over roast of beef or veal are sometimes used. 

b. Spread each piece of meat with the stuffing given in step 2 of the fore- 
going method, inclose a strip of bacon, and roll; fasten with toothpicks and 
string. 

c. Cook as follows: 

(1) Roll in flour and saute* 2-3 min. in fat. 

(2) Cover with water, stock, or cream; cover utensil, and simmer 20-60 
min., or until tender. 

(3) Place on toast, and garnish with parsley. 

The foregoing is the usual method; if preferred, cook by any of the four methods 
mentioned for mock duck. 



MEATS COOKED WITH ACIDS; BAKED POTATOES 

Dinner 

Sour beef, baked Stuffed baked potatoes 

Beet salad Bread and butter 

Sliced fruit 



Avoid using utensils made of iron, aluminum, or other metal in the following 
recipes. Why? 

Sour Beef, Baked 



Ingredients: 




One cube lean 


Lean beef, such as rump or lower round 


beef, IX'- 




IX* sq. 






Seasonings (these form a sour-sweet sauce in the pan) : 


Xt. 


Strong vinegar 


dash 


Salt and pepper 


l A t. brown 


Sugar, brown or white 


It. 


Raw apple, chopped 


It. 


Raw onion, chopped as fine as sugar 


Ht. 


Suet, chopped 



Method: 

1. Place the meat in an earthen or granite baking dish, and pour the vinegar 
over the meat. 

2. Sprinkle the meat with the other seasonings, cover, and bake until tender. 

3. Remove the meat and the sour-sweet sauce to a hot platter and serve. 

Note: 

* Place the class recipe in a custard cup, cover tight with a small pie tin or jelly-jar 
cover, and bake 30-40 min. in a moderate oven. 

Sour Beef, Simmered 

(Meat soaked in vinegar before being cooked) 
{Recipe I) 
Ingredients: 

Rump or lower round 

Onion, sliced 

Bay leaves 

Salt 

Mixed whole spices 

Vinegar, or a mixture of half water and half vinegar, to cover the meat 

125 



126 LESSONS IN COOKERY 

Method: 

1. Place all the ingredients together in a crock and allow them to stand 
7 days in winter or 3-4 days in summer; turn once daily and keep covered. 

2. Remove the meat from the liquid and brown in fat. 

3. Strain the liquid, add to the meat, and simmer until the meat is tender. 
.4. Place meat on platter and slice. 

5. Thicken the liquid with a flour paste or ginger snaps broken into pieces, 
strain, and pour over the meat; cream is sometimes added to the gravy. 

Note: 

Tough steaks, such as round, flank, or skirt steak, may be treated in any of the follow- 
ing ways: 

a. Soak the steak several hours, for instance over night, in a mixture of vinegar 
and Water or in a mixture of one-third as much oil as vinegar. Drain the 
steak and dry thoroughly, then broil. 

b. Soak the steak as in (a) above, then bake in a casserole. 

c. Stew the steak until tender in water containing a little vinegar; the following 
is a typical recipe. 

Sour Beef, Simmered 

(Recipe II) 
Ingredients: 

5 lb. flank steak 

1 tb. salt 

yi t. pepper 

H t. cloves 

1 1. summer savory 

3 tb. vinegar 

Method: 

1. Remove the tough skin from steak. 

2. Place the thin portion of steak on top of the thick portion. 

3. Sprinkle with all the other ingredients, roll, tie with twine, and let stand 
12 hr. in a cold place. 

4. Add water to cover, and simmer 3J^-4 hr., or until tender. 

5. Thicken gravy, add salt and pepper, and serve hot or cold. 

TYPES OF CONNECTIVE TISSX7E 

Connective membrane (commonly called connective tissue) 
Ligaments and tendons 
Cartilage, or gristle 
Bone 

Notes: 

1. Pupil to experiment as follows with the four types, and to note results: 

a. Boil 30 min. in water. 

b. Boil 30 min, in water containing vinegar. 

c. Soak several days in strong vinegar. 

2. Define collagen; gelatin. 



FOOD ECONOMY 127 

USES OF ACID WITH MEATS AND FISH 

J. With tough meats and fish, such as lobster. 

Acid (vinegar, etc.) softens connective tissue and so makes tough meat or fish 
tender and more digestible; note applications as follows: 

a. Acid is used in soaking meats before cooking by any of the following 
methods, the meat usually being soaked several hours, for instance, 
12 hr. or over night: 

Broiling Baking in a casserole 

Stewing Etc. 

b. Acid is added to the meat during the process of stewing; sometimes 
the meat is rubbed with vinegar before being stewed. 

c. Acid (vinegar) is sometimes added to "boiled" meat or fish; the 
vinegar is ordinarily used for parboiling only, as with lobsters. 

d. Acid resulting from fermentation of the sugar in meat is a softening 
agent; that is, when meat is allowed to hang in cold storage for a 
week to three months or longer, it becomes softened to a greater or 
lesser degree, and also " ripened,' ' owing in part to the action of the 
acid and in part to the enzyme action. 

77. With tough or tender meats and fish. 

1. Acid, especially when meat (tough or tender) is soaked in it, prevents 
putrefaction; acid is antiseptic. Either of the following vinegar mixtures, which 
can be prepared in large quantities and be used over and over again, may be 
used in soaking meats: 

Vinegar and water 1 ^ NqU m 

Vinegar and oil J 

2. Acid is often used chiefly to flavor tough or tender meat and fish; for 
example: 

a. Acid is used in corning meat. 

b. Acid dressings are served with salads, such as chicken or lobster. 

c. Acid sauces are served with the following: 

Lobster, crab, and other fish 

Meats of various kinds 
Many persons, chiefly Europeans, enjoy a sour-sweet sauce with 

meat or fish; such a sauce (containing raisins) is good with tongue. 
Mint sauce, served with lamb, is a sour-sweet sauce that is especially 

popular in this country. 

d. Acid is rubbed on meat before it is cooked; tender meat, such as 
veal, is often better in flavor if rubbed with lemon juice or vinegar 
before being fried or stewed. 

e. Acid resulting from fermentation may improve the flavor so far as 
some palates are concerned; some persons enjoy "high" game or other 
meat. See I, d> above. 



128 LESSONS IN COOKERY 

Baked Potatoes, Sweet or White 

Method: 

1. Select potatoes of uniform size, and scrub them with a vegetable brush. 

2. Place in a very hot oven, either on the oven-rack or in a shallow pan; the 
temperature of the oven should be 450° P., or 232° C, or higher. 

3. Bake 30-45 min., or until soft when squeezed in a towel. Time varies 
with the size of the potatoes; the average time is 45 min. 

4. Serve immediately, since baked potatoes deteriorate by standing for even 
a few minutes. 

Notes: 

1. Great care is required to bake potatoes properly; for example, if the potatoes are 
done even 2-3 min ; before the dining hour, allow the steam to escape from them, or it will 
condense and make the potatoes soggy; either crack the skin by squeezing the potato, or 
puncture the skin with a fork. The ideal potato is dry and mealy, not soggy. 

2. Some cooks dry the skins, then grease them, before baking the potatoes; this keeps 
the skins soft and edible. 

3. Potatoes & la paprika, a derivative, are prepared as follows: 

a. Bake potatoes. 

b. Roll and squeeze gently in order to soften pulp, then squeeze sharply so as 
to crack the top surface of the potato. 

c. Without removing the pulp from the shell, mash the potato with a fork. 

d. Add a lump of butter, salt, and paprika, and serve. 

4. Advantages of baked over other potatoes are as follows: 

a. More of the valuable salts of the potato are retained in baking than by any 
other method of cooking potatoes. 

b. Higher flavor results than from boiling or steaming. 

Note that high temperature in general produces high flavor in foods. 

5. Left-over baked potatoes are excellent used as follows: 

Creamed 
Escalloped 
Saut^ed (as in hash) 

Stuffed Baked Potatoes, Sweet or White 

Method: 

Xt Bake potatoes. 

2. Cut lengthwise at once and scoop out the pulp, leaving the shells intact. 

3. Prepare ordinary "mashed potatoes" from the pulp; that is, season with 
hot cream or milk, salt, pepper, and butter, then mash and whip until very light 
and creamy. (See recipe, page 56.) 

4. Pile roughly in the shells; do not smooth the surface. 

5. Sprinkle with milk, bits of butter, or grated cheese. 

6. Bake 5-10 min. in a hot oven until puffed and brown; the direct flame of 
the broiling oven is sometimes needed for browning. 

7. Garnish with parsley and paprika, and serve at once. 



FOOD ECONOMY 129 

Notes: 

1. As a convenience, any potatoes in the half-shell may be prepared as long as 12 hr. 
before browning and serving. 

2. Any of the following foods may be beaten into the pulp during the process of mashing: 

Cheese, grated Fish, chopped 

Egg yolk, beaten Meat, chopped 

Egg white, beaten Parsley, chopped 

Egg, hard-cooked and chopped Pimentos, chopped 

"Complete" dishes result from the addition of certain of the foods listed. 

3. Eggs-in-the-nest, a derivative, is prepared as follows: 

a. Fill potato half-shells with mashed potato. 

b. Drop a raw yolk of egg in the center of each half -potato, then bake 5-10 min. 

4. Sweet potatoes are also good prepared in the following way: 

a. Season mashed potatoes, and place them in the shells of baked potatoes or in 
a greased baking dish. 

b. Cover with a sirup made by mixing 1 t. butter with 2 tb. molasses, and. 
bake until brown. 

Potato Puff 

(A derivative of stuffed baked potatoes) 
Ingredients: (8 servings) 

2 c. hot mashed potatoes, prepared from either baked or boiled potatoes 
(sweet or white) 

3 tb. butter 
1 1. salt 
White pepper 
yi c. hot milk 

2 egg yolks, beaten light yellow 
2 egg whites, beaten stiff 

Method: 

1. Whip together until very light all the ingredients except the whites and 
yolks. 

2. Whip in the yolks, being careful not to allow them to harden in lumps. 

3. Fold in the whites. 

4. Pile lightly in the shells of baked potatoes or in a buttered baking dish, and 
bake in a hot oven 20-25 min., or until puffed and brown. Serve at once. Why? 
Notes: 

1. Omit either the yolks or whites, if desired, or use just one yolk and one white. 

2. The following ingredients may be added: 

Onion juice 
Cayenne or paprika 
1-3 1. chopped parsley 
yi~K c grated cheese 
Etc. 
Avoid a high temperature when cheese is used. Why? 



BROILED MEAT BALLS 

Dinner 

Hamburg steak Riced potatoes 

Tomato salad Bread and butter 

Apple sauce Cookies 



Meat Balls Prepared from Raw Meat 

(Not a complete dish) 
Method: 

1. Remove bone and gristle from raw tough steak or other lean meat; neck 
pieces and flank are often used. If the round or other beef cut is used, the product 
is called Hamburg steak. Any meat used must be strictly fresh. 

2. Mix with a little bacon or beef suet and run through the meat-grinder. If 
the balls are for use in children's or invalids' diet, it is well to grind the meat twice. 

3. Form into round flat cakes, %* to \\i* thick. 

4. Grill- or pan-broil, following the same rules as for all tender cuts, such as 
steaks, chops, etc. : 

a. High temperature to sear; use very little, if any, fat in pan. 

b. Lower temperature until done. 

In pan-broiling chopped raw meat the pan should be kept covered. 

5. Place on a hot platter, add salt, and garnish with bacon and parsley. Why 
add salt after (not before) cooking these balls, steaks, chops, etc. ? 

6. Surround pan-broiled balls with gravy made as follows: 

a. Add flour to pan, and brown well. 

6. Slowly add one of the following liquids: 

Milk or cream Tomatoes, strained 

Stock or water Etc. 

c. Cook until creamy, then add salt and pepper. 

Notes; 

1. No fat is required for the gravy, other than that left in the pan by the meat; use 
ingredients as follows: 

It. I 2-3 tb. flour 

3 tb. I 1 c. liquid 

The class recipe is sufficient for two thin cakes each 1* in diameter. 

2. The following ingredients may be added to the meat: 

Seasonings (such as chopped onions) 

Starchy material and liquid (see rules for complete-dish balls, page 61) 
Raw egg is often desirable as a binding agent; use 1 egg to 1 l A lb. meat. 
Meat loaf is a variation either of the above recipe or of complete-dish meat balls. 

130 



FOOD ECONOMY 131 

3. Observe the following precautions: 

a. See the meat before buying it. 

b. See it ground in the store, or else grind it at home; do not trust ground mix- 
tures as found ready to sell. It is much safer to grind the meat at home, as 
ground meat spoils very quickly. 

4. Compare Hamburg steak with ordinary steak as to price and nutriment. 

Brown. Sauce or Gravy 

(For use with meats and vegetables) 
Ingredients: 

1 c. liquid — one or a mixture of the following: 

Milk or cream 
Water or stock 
Tomatoes, strained 

Juices from roasting or broiling pan (secured by boiling a little water 
in the pan after removing the meat and surplus fat) 
2-4 tb. white flour 

2 tb. butter or a substitute (drippings, such as fat from the roasting or 
broiling pan, are often used) 

Salt and other seasonings 

Method I; 

1. Brown flour in a saut&ng pan, stirring constantly. 

2. Add fat and seasonings to form a paste. 

3. Add liquid slowly and stir over fire until creamy. 

Method II: 

1. Stir fat and white flour together over the fire until as brown as coffee. Be- 
ware of burning the fat. Why? 

2. Add seasonings. 

3. Slowly add the liquid and boil until creamy. 

Notu: 

1. Method II is less desirable than Method I, because the fat is almost sure to be over- 
heated or Burned, and thus objectionable substances may be formed. 

2. In seasoning brown sauce, use salt, pepper, and any of the following: 

Bacon or ham, in dices Celery Onion 

Bay leaf Cloves Parsley 

Beef extract Leek Thyme 

Caramel Mushrooms, dried Tomato 

3. Potatoes are good baked with brown sauce; for example, mix 2 c. boiled potatoes 
cut in yi* cubes with 1 c. brown sauce, then bake until well blended and brown on top. 

4. Two derivatives of brown sauce are as follows: 

a. Chestnut sauce, for use with turkey: Add yi c. brown sauce to 1 c. mashed 
boiled chestnuts, boil 3 min.^and serve. 

b. Giblet sauce: Make a brown sauce, using giblet stock as liquid, then add 
chopped cooked giblets. 



132 



Hamburg steak 

Cabbage slaw 

Doughnuts 



LESSONS IN COOKERY 
Luncheon 

Bread and butter 



Escalloped potatoes 

Pickles 
Coffee 



Class to serve the menu to a group of ten teachers or pupils at a minimum 
cost per plate; Vary the menu, if preferred. 

Cost of Supplies 

(Pupil to supply data) 



Supplies 


Quantity 


Cost 


Bread 






Butter 


1 


Butter substitute 






Cabbage 






Coffee 






Cream ....." 


! 


Eff&Sa •••••••••••• 


1 


Fat, frying 


' 


Flour, white 


1 


Meat 


i 


Milk 


• 


Parsley 




Pickles 


i 








Seasonings 






























Total 













PROTEIN-FOOD CROQUETTES 



Luncheon 



Meat croquettes 
Stewed corn 



Fruit cobbler 



Escalloped potatoes 
Bread and butter 



Croquettes in Which a Protein Food Is the Chief Ingredient 



Ingredients: 

2-3 tb. 



l#t. 

It. 

2tb. 



dash 
dash 
to taste 



(10 croquettes) 

2 c. protein food, selected from the following, singly or in any combination; 

Chopped meat of any kind 

Chopped fish of any kind 

Mashed legumes (such as kidney or soy beans) 

Grated cheese (dry, and not very rich) 

Etc. 
1 c. very thick sauce (as thick as drop batter) : 

4 tb. flour 

2 tb. butter or a substitute (see Note 3) 

1 c. liquid — one or a mixture of the following: 
Milk or cream Tomatoes, strained 

Stock or water Etc. 

M-H t. salt 

y+ t. paprika 
Other seasonings to taste, selected from the following: 



Cayenne 
Celery salt 
Onion salt 
Onion juice 
Onion, chopped 



Parsley, chopped 

Lemon juice (with salmon or other fish) 

Garlic 

Etc. 



Method: 

Follow the general method for croquettes, page 84. 

Notes: 

1. Left-over cooked meat, fish, and legumes generally are used in mixing the croquettes. 
For further suggestions as to protein foods, liquid, and seasonings for use in this recipe, 
see list, pages 48 ff., "Five Groups of Ingredients for Complete Dishes." 

2. The recipe calls for meat, fish, and legumes that have been drained free of all juice 
and gravy. If the meat or other protein food used is very moist, add less than 1 c. sauce 
to it; that is, add just enough sauce to make it possible to handle the mixture easily. 

3. In salmon croquettes salmon oil may be substituted for the butter. 

133 



134 LESSONS IN COOKERY 

4. Note suggestions as to- the use of kidney beans or other legumes in the recipe: 

a. Drain the cooked legumes. 

b. Mash, add the white sauce, then, stirring constantly, cook the mixture until 
it is very stiff and quite dry (or dry it in the oven). 

c. Chill, and mold. 

5. In making cheese croquettes according to the recipe, it is well to cover them with 
a very thick coating of egg and crumbs, otherwise some of the cheese in melting may escape 
into the fat. Brown the croquettes very quickly; the cheese should melt, but should not 
become tough and stringy from prolonged cooking. 

6. Sometimes a little of one or more of the following ingredients is a palatable addition: 

Grated cheese 

Beaten egg 

Mushrooms 

Oysters, parboiled 

Lean salt pork, bacon, or ham, ground 

Mashed potatoes or other vegetables 

Left-over breakfast cereals (such as rice) 

Meat gravy or stuffing 

Soft bread crumbs 

Etc. 
Whenever any croquettes are too soft to handle, add a few soft bread crumbs; mold 
at once, or cook until stiff, cool, and then mold. If an excess of crumbs is used, a so-called 
complete dish results, as in the following recipe: 

1-4 c. soft stale bread crumbs 

1 c. chopped meat 

Seasonings 

%-2 c. very thick white sauce, to mix to a consistency for molding 

7. Croquettes in general are much more easily handled if all the ingredients are cold. 
It is essential that the white sauce and other ingredients for protein-food croquettes be 
thoroughly chilled before being molded. 

8. Croquettes are usually fried, but they may be rolled in buttered crumbs and baked 
in a hot oven. 





MEAT STOCK 


Luncheon 




Beef broth 


Wafers 


Egg salad 


Brown-bread sandwiches 




Fresh fruit 



Meat Stock Made without Vegetables 

Ingredients: 

1 lb. meat and bone (such as H lean meat and \i fat and bone) 
2-3 c. water (depending on the desired richness of stock) 
Salt (about 1 1. to 1 qt. completed stock) 
Pepper (about % t. to each t. salt used) 
Other seasonings to taste 

Meat Stock Made with Vegetables 

{Proportions to be varied as desired) 

Ingredients: 

1 lb. meat and bone 

1 qt. water, or to cover 

1-2 tb. each of the following vegetables, sliced, chopped, or cut into yi* cubes: 

Carrot 

Celery stalk or root 

Onion 

Turnip or cabbage 
Seasonings: 

Salt and pepper 

3 or 4 peppercorns 

2-4 cloves 

Bit of bay leaf 

Sprig of parsley, or celery leaves 

Method: 

This method is for use with stock made with or without such additions as 
herbs, vegetables, cereals, etc. The time at which these additions should be 
made is stated in Note 1, page 136. 

1. Wipe meat and bones with a damp cloth. 

2. Split bones and cut meat and cartilage in small pieces. 

3. Soak J^-l J^ hr. in cold water almost to cover; the usual rule is to use 2-3 c. 
water to 1 lb. meat and bones. 

135 



136 LESSONS IN COOKERY 

4. Place over the fire in this same water, cover, and very gradually bring to 
the boiling point. (If one prefers not to take time for soaking the meat, put the 
meat into either cold or boiling water before placing it over the fire.) 

5. Simmer 6-8 hr., or until meat falls into shreds; do not skim. (See Note 2.) 
Keep the kettle well covered, since much of the flavoring material of stock is 
volatile. 

6. Remove bones and meat, and set liquid aside over night to cool. Cool 
quickly. Why? 

7. Remove layer of fat from top with a knife or spoon; a napkin, a piece of 
bread, or a blotting paper is often of use in removing the last particles of fat. The 
following is a practical method for removing fat from warm stock : Wrap ice in a thin 
cloth and move it around on top of stock. The fat congeals on the cloth. (The 
discarded fat may be used in soap-making.) 

8. Clear if desired. 

9. Add salt and other seasoning. Why is salt added the last thing, that is, 
after, not before, the clearing process? 

Notes: 

1. Note the time for making certain possible additions to plain stock: 

a. Herbs, tied in a bag, and other seasonings: Usually added about 1 hr. before 
the stock is done. 

b. Solid vegetables: Added in the very beginning or at almost any time later, 
and either before or after the stock is cleared; 1 hr. before the stock is done 
is a very good time. * 

c. Starchy material, such as rice: Added 20-30 min. before the stock is done. 

d. Tomatoes, milk, and thickening: Added at the very last. 

Herbs and solid vegetables are removed from the stock at the time the bones are 
removed. 

2. Reasons for not boiling the stock: 

a. Meat is toughened by boiling, and the juices are thereby retained; note that 
the chief aim in preparing stock is to extract all of the meat juices. 

b. In boiling, more flavoring material is lost through evaporation than in sim- 
mering; that is, the excessive steam formed tends to carry off more of the 
volatile substances. 

3. Do not delay in serving the stock, since stock does not keep long after the layer of 
fat has been removed. Use one of the following methods of preserving stock: 

a. Addition of salt 

b. Use of cold (stock will keep in a refrigerator 3-4 days, often longer, if fat on 
top is unbroken) 

c. Avoidance of vegetables in the making of stock (vegetables spoil quickly in 
a warm temperature) 

4. A good plan is to make stock two or three times weekly; stock should always be kept 
on hand. 

5. Unless the ice method mentioned in step 7 is used for removing fat, it is not well 
to make soup from stock prepared the same day; generally speaking, fat cannot easily be 
removed from stock that has not been allowed to stand over night. A soup is poorly served 
if any fat is found floating on it. One reason for avoiding greasy soup is that the presence 

-** fat results in too hot a soup; Why? Other reasons? 



FOOD ECONOMY 137 

6. The method given results in amber or white, not brown, stock. If brown stock is 
desired, use either of the following methods: 

a. Prepare dark-brown caramel; dilute with water and add to soup; if caramel 
is sufficiently diluted, the flavor of soup is not injured, but improved. 

b. Brown about one-third of the meat, and part of the vegetables, if desired, 
in a little hot marrow or other fat; then add these ingredients to contents of 
soup kettle. 

Note that the browning of the meat lends flavor as well as color to the stock, since the 
high temperature used in sautemg develops the flavoring substances found in the meat; 
the boiling temperature of water, 212° P., or 100° C, is not sufficient to develop these 
flavors. The brown pieces of meat left over from roast beef, lamb, veal, etc., are also 
useful in preparing browned stock. 

7. The tasteless meat left from making stock should be used in the preparation of meat 
loaf and other dishes. 

To Clear Meat Stock 

Method: 

1. Remove all the fat from the top of jellied or liquid stock. 

2. To every qt. of cold stock add 1 white of egg and the crushed shell; beat the 
egg slightly and mix well with the stock. 

3. Stirring once in a while, heat mixture very slowly until the egg begins to 
harden. 

4. Boil 6-6 min. without stirring. 

5. Let stand 10 min. in a cool place so as to clear, then skim. 

6. Strain through a fine sieve lined with several thicknesses of cheesecloth. 

Notes: 

1. What has been removed from the stock by the clearing process? 

2. The material left in the sieve should be utilized in preparing meat balls or some 
other recipe. 

Class Recipe for Cleared Stock 

Ingredients: 

yi c. jellied or liquid stock 

lyi t. slightly beaten white of egg 

Method: 

1. Mix the ingredients together thoroughly. 

2. With constant stirring, heat very gradually to the boiling point. 

3. Cover, and boil 2 min. without stirring. 

4. Let stand 5 min. in a cool place, then skim. 

5. Strain through double cheesecloth. 

Note: 

lyi t. egg is a safe average for the class recipe; the egg may vary from ]/i to 2 1., accord- 
ing to the cloudiness of the stock. 
10 



138 LESSONS IN COOKERY 

INGREDIENTS FOR THE STOCK KETTLE 

I. Fresh foods: 

1. Vegetables: Almost all kinds can be used, including coarse parts of lettuce, 
cabbage, and celery not suitable for the table. 

2. Meat, any kind: Use one kind alone or a mixture of two or more kinds, 
such as the following: 

Beef Mutton Veal 

Game Poultry Etc. 

Stock should not be an expensive dish, since it can be prepared from left-over 
meats and from cheap fresh cuts; choose any of the cheapest and toughest cuts, 
such as the following: 

Knuckle of veal Shank or shin of beef 

Rump bones of beef Shoulder or neck bones of beef 

The meat may well include cartilage and skin, also bone of any kind. Gelatin 
is an excellent food, hence it is very extravagant not to save bones, etc., for the 
soup kettle. It is well for soup meat to include some fat, since the cake formed 
by the fat when cold, if kept unbroken, aids in preserving the stock. The butcher 
and the cook should save for soup all the trimmings, such as the strip-end or tail 
of porterhouse steak. It is an economy both of time and of food value to grind 
all lean meat before adding it to the contents of soup kettle. The skin of mutton 
should be discarded, since it is too strong in flavor for soup. 

II. Left-overs or cooked foods: 

1. Vegetables, almost all kinds. Also use the liquid in which vegetables have 
been cooked, such as: 

Asparagus Carrots Onions 

Cabbage Celery Etc. 

Some cooks disapprove of the use of cabbage water and potato water in the 
soup kettle. 

2. Meat, bone, and cartilage from any of the following: 

Roasts Stews 

Steaks Etc. 

3. Meat gravies. 

4. Water in which meat has been boiled. 

5. Cereals and their products, including the following (see Note 3) : 

Barley Noodles 

Rice Macaroni 

Etc. 

Notes: 

1. Pine flavor can be imparted to soup by proper combinations of almost all kinds of 
left-overs; they are also economical. 

2. If meat is served once or twice each day, there is seldom any necessity of buying 
meat especially for the soup kettle. 

3. The water in which any of the cereals or their products, such as rice or macaroni, 
have been cooked may be added to the contents of the soup kettle. 



FOOD ECONOMY 



139 



Fish Soup 

(An economical recipe) 
Ingredknb: 

Fish stock: 

1 lb. fish bones and trimmings 3 cloves 

1 qt. water 1 blade mace 

1 onion 8 peppercorns 

1 stalk celery 
lc. milk 
Flour paste for thickening 

Method: 

Use about the same method as for meat stock. 

ADDITIONS TO SOUPS IN GENERAL 

(Such additions are either cooked or raw) 

By "soups in general" is meant stock, cream, fruity and other soups. Pupil to 
check each ingredient suitable for use with cream soups. 
/. Thickening agents (see Note 1): 

Arrowroot Cereals: 

Bread Barley, pearl Oats, rolled 

Cornstarch Corn meal Rice 

Crackers Farina Etc. 

Eggs (yolks, whites, or whole eggs) Flour pastes (see Note 2): 

Flour (white or browned) Noodles 

Irish moss Spaghetti 

Potatoes (mashed, etc.) Vermicelli 

Sago Macaroni in any of the following forms: 

Tapioca, pearl Letters Strips cut in rings 

Stars after being cooked 

Shells Etc. 

//• Seasonings: 



DRY SEASONINGS 

Bay leaf 

Celery salt 

Curry powder 

Garlic salt 

Herbs, sweet (such as kit- 
chen bouquet) 

Onion salt 

Parmesan cheese, grated 

Pepper (paprika, etc.) 

Salt 

Spices (sometimes used in 
cream soups) 

Sugar 

(See Note 3) 



VEGETABLES 

Celery stalk or root 

Onion 

Parsley 

Sweet green pepper 

Tomato (juice, etc.) 

Carrot 

Potato 

Turnip 

Etc. 

(See Notes 4, 5, and 6) 



MISCELLANEOUS SEASONINGS 

Beef extract 

Butter or other fat 

Catsup 

Some fruits; for instance, 
orange juice adds zest 
to certain cream soups 

Meat stock 

Malted milk (sometimes 
added to meat broths 
or tomato bouillon) 

Sauces (such as Wor- 
cestershire) 

Sour apple or chopped 
ham (sometimes added 
to meat stock) 



140 LESSONS IN COOKERY 

III. Garnishes: 
Asparagus tips 
Cauliflower flowerets 

Celery tips (whole or chopped) 

Cream, whipped 

Eggs: 

Slices of hard-cooked egg 

Riced yolk or white of egg 

Beaten white of egg 

Egg balls 

Egg custard, cut in fancy shapes (good in clear broths) 
Fritter batter, pressed through a strainer and fried 
Lemon or orange, thin slice 
Paprika 

Parsley (whole or chopped) 
Peas, small green 
Popcorn (good in cream soups) 

Vegetables, boiled and cut in cubes or fancy shapes (good in clear broths): 
Carrot Turnip 

Potato Etc. 

IV. Accompaniments of soup; 
Cheese balls 

Crackers and wafers, toasted (good baked with cheese) 
Croutons (cubes, diamonds, etc.) 
Crusty bread (see Note 7) : 

Bread sticks French bread cut in slices 1' thick 

Rolls Etc. 

Notts: 

1. Most of the thickening agents contain considerable nourishment. 

2. The water drained from rice and flour pastes is rich in starch; the economical cook 
uses it in combination with other materials as a basis for soup. 

3. Dry seasonings are easier to handle than other seasonings, and probably just as good. 

4. Chop the vegetables, cut in cubes, or use fancy cutters. 

5. Extra flavor is secured by saut£ing the vegetables in bacon or other fat. 

6. Almost any fresh vegetable may be used. 

7. Which of the breadstuffs are served in the soup? Which with the soup? 

8. Appetizers or stimulants to digestion: 

Dextrin as found in the listed breadstuffs (see IV) 
Extractives found in meat stock 

USES OF STOCK 

1. Basis of many soups; this is the chief use. 

2. Basis of many sauces and gravies. 

3. Basis of aspic jelly. 

4. Seasoning agent in stews and other meat and vegetable dishes. 

5. Boiling medium; meat and vegetables are often boiled in stock so that they 
may gain flavor from the stock. 



PART V 
USE OF MEAT SUBSTITUTES 



SUGGESTIONS FOR LESSONS 

Dried Legumes as a Meat Substitute 

38. Baked beans. Boston brown bread 

Eggs as a Meat Substitute 

39. Escalloped eggs 

Cheese as a Meat Substitute 

40. Cottage cheese — choice of three types: sour-milk, buttermilk, sweet-milk 







DRIED LEGUMES AS A MEAT SUBSTITUTE 

Quick-Process Baked Beans 

Luncheon 

Baked beans Boston brown bread 

Combination salad (vegetable) 

Apple sauce Cookies Tea 



Method: 

1. Pick over beans, wash, and soak 8-12 hr. or over night in cold water to cover. 

2. Drain, and place in fresh cold water to which a little soda has been added, 
in the proportion 1 t. soda to 1 qt. water; boil 20-30 min. (See Note 5.) 

3. Drain, and remove any traces of soda by rinsing with fresh water. 

4. Drain, add hot water, and boil 1-3 hr., or until tender. 

5. Place in baking dishes 2"-3" deep, add salt and a sprinkle of brown sugar, 
water sufficient to half cover the beans, and lay strips of raw bacon or ham on top. 

6. Bake 2-4 hr. in a moderate oven; brown well on top. 

Note*: 

1. This is an excellent method when beans are to be prepared in very large quantities. 

2. If preferred, vary the recipe by substituting the three following steps for the last three 
steps of the regular method: 

a. Drain, add hot water and salt pork, and boil 1-3 hr., or until tender. 

b. Add molasses or any other seasonings desired. Do not drain the liquid from 
the beans and do not add bacon or ham. 

c. Bake 20-60 min. in a moderate oven; brown well. 

3. Note suggestions as to the class recipe: 

a. Pupil to soak beans over night, then parboil. 

b. Instructor to boil beans tender, or to cook them in a fireless cooker over night. 

c. The second day each pupil to complete the process as follows: 

(1) Half fill with cooked beans a custard cup or a deep muffin tin. 

(2) Add salt and yi-yi t. dark brown sugar. 

(3) Add a thin slice of bacon or ham (bacon or ham "ends" can be pur- 
chased for a very little), 

(4) Half cover with water, and bake 30 min. or longer, until brown and 
crisp; add more water if needed, but avoid too much water. 

4. Boston, or "slow-process," baked beans require 8-12 hr. for cooking, and hence 
cannot be prepared by a class; see recipe in any cook book. 

5. There is a serious objection to the use of soda in the cooking of dried legumes, 
inasmuch as heating in an alkaline solution is said to destroy the vitamine content of foods 
in general. If quick-process baked beans are served, they should be accompanied by foods, 
such as fresh vegetables and fruits, which are rich in water-soluble vitamines. Except in hard- 
water regions, soda is not essential in parboiling legumes; soda simply hastens the process. 

143 



144 LESSONS IN COOKERY 

Stewed Soy Beans 

Ingredients: 

1 c. dry soy beans 
3 c. cold water 
}4 lb. salt pork 

1 small onion, chopped and sauteed in a little extra pork fat 

2 c. tomatoes 

Salt and other seasonings 

Method; 

1. Soak the beans 12 hr. in cold water. 

2. Add pork and boil 4 hr., or until beans are tender; add enough water to keep 
beans from scorching. (Cook in a tireless cooker, if preferred.) 

3. Add the remaining ingredients, simmer 15 min., and serve. 

Note: 

Lentils and other dried legumes are stewed in a similar way. 

NOTES ON DRIED LEGUMES 

/. Legumes more or less commonly eaten: 

Beans: 

Kidney Soy (black, green, white, and yellow) 

Lima Navy (most used) 

Cowpea Etc. 

Pinto 
Lentils 

Peanuts (raw) 
Peas 

Pupil to determine the price per lb. of soy beans and other legumes. 

77. Food value of legumes: 

1 . High protein content : Legumes compare favorably with meat as to protein ; 
they are sometimes called poor man's meat. 

2. High starch content : Legumes compare favorably with cereals as to starch ; 
soy beans are an exception. Soy beans are very rich in protein and fat, but, unlike 
the navy beans, they are deficient in starch; they are a very good meat substitute. 

III. Methods of cooking any of the legumes listed in I: 

Baking in the usual way, or as a loaf 

Boiling and stewing (season the legumes high, or serve plain) 

Soup-making 

Etc. 

If a high-pressure cooker is available, the time limit for cooking any legumes 
is reduced to a minimum. 



FOOD ECONOMY 



145 



In general, the same recipes are used for lentils and peas as for navy beans. 
Soy beans, in addition to being cooked in the foregoing ways, are also made 
into souffles, salads, or, after being ground into flour, are made into muffins and 
other flour mixtures. In the baking or other cooking of soy beans or peanuts, 
it is often well to bind them together by adding a little starch in the form of 
flour, cornstarch, or navy beans. Why? 

Possible additions to any dried legume with any method of cooking are listed 
below. In general, the same additions may be made to fresh legumes. The names 
preceded by an asterisk are those of the ingredients ordinarily used in baking 
navy beans. 



Fat 


Seasonings 


Corned beef, fat 




Fat-meat substitutes: 


*Molasses (see Note 1) 


Corned mutton, fat 




Butter 


*Mustard 


Pork (see Note 2): 




B utter ine 


Pepper (such as cayenne 


Bacon or ham ends 




Crisco 


or paprika) 


Fresh pork 




Drippings (such as beef or 


Peppers (such as pimentos 


*Salt pork (generally used) 


bacon) 


or sweet green) 






Olive oil 


*Salt 






Snowdrift 


*Sugar, brown or white 


- 




Etc. 


(see Note 1) 



Notes: 

1. Sugar is generally omitted if molasses is used. 

2. Note the following points with respect to fat: 

a. It is well to use pork which is streaked with both fat and lean. 

b. Additional salt must be used if salt meat is omitted from any given 
recipe. 

c. The weight of the fat-meat substitute should equal the weight of the fat 
meat called for in the recipe. 

3. Cloves and nutmeg are sometimes used as seasonings, but very sparingly. 

4. Which of the foregoing additions are used in making the stew chili con carne? 

5. The Journal of Home Economics, February, 1918, contains an article on "Nutritious 
Vegetable Soups" by Elizabeth Sprague. The following are among the soups for which 
recipes are given: 



Black bean and kafir corn 
Lima bean and canned corn 
Lima bean and tomato 
Lima bean and soy bean 
Navy bean and feterita 
The ingredients for feterita and soy-bean soup are quoted as follows: 
H c. feterita \yi tb. flour 

}>i c. soy beans 1 1. salt 

1 tb. onion Pepper 

1 tb. corn Water to make 1 pt. soup 



Soy bean and kafir corn 
Soy bean and tomato 
Cowpeas and feterita 
Cowpeas and kafir corn 
Cowpeas and tomato 



146 



LESSONS IN COOKERY 



Boston Brown Bread 

Ingredients: 

1 tb. 1 c. rye flour 

1 tb. 1 c. corn meal 

1 tb. 1 c. coarse graham flour 

H2 t. % t. soda (less if non-acid molasses is used) 

He t. \% t. salt 

2 1. Jic black (that is, acid) molasses 

IK tb. IK c. sweet milk or water 

# tb. 1 c. dried fruit, chopped, selected from the following, singly or in any 

combination: 

Currants, Zante 

Dated 

Prunes 

Raisins, black 

Method: 

1. Mix and sift the first five (dry) ingredients, then add to a mixture of molasses 
and water. 

2. Add the fruit, and half fill greased molds, such as lard pails or baking-powder 
cans. 

3. Cover, and steam 3 hr. 

4. Remove covers, and bake J^ hr. Serve hot or cold. 

Notes: 

1. Vary the flour as desired; for example, use \}i c. corn meal and \}4 c. rye meal, 
omitting the graham. 

2. By the addition of a little sugar the bread may be used as a pudding. 

3. By increasing the soda to 1}4 1., 2 c. thick sour milk or buttermilk may be substituted 
for IK c. sweet milk or water, 

4. Omit the fruit, if preferred. 

5. If preferred, grease the top of a double boiler and steam the bread in the double boiler. 

6. Boston brown bread may be reheated in a steamer from day to day. 

7. Boston brown bread before steaming usually ranges between a thin and a thick 
batter; the exact thickness depends on the kind of liquid used. 

8. Unless a quantity of Boston brown bread is made at one time, it is very often expen- 
sive because of the fuel required. 

0. Note suggestions as to the class recipe: 

a. Level measurements of molasses, etc., are essential; also, scrape all molasses 

from the under side of spoon. 
k Place bread in a small baking-powder can, put on cover, and drop the can 

directly into a saucepan of water. Boil 35 min., remove cover of can, and 

bake 5 min. 
10. Pupfi to record results after experimenting as follows, using test tubes: 
Heat a solution of soda and water. 
Heat a mixture of soda, water, and sour milk or molasses. 
Heat a solution of soda, water, and cream of tartar. 
Mix soda and vinegar. 



Baked beans 
Lemon ice 



POOD ECONOMY 
Luncheon 

Pickles 
Sponge cake 



147 



Boston brown bread 
Coffee 



Class to serve the menu to a group of ten teachers or pupils at a minimum cost 
per plate; vary the menu, if preferred. 

Cost of Supplies 

(Pupil to supply data) 



Supplies 



Quantity 



Cost 



Butter 

Coffee 

Corn meal 

Cream * 

Eggs 

Flour, graham 

Flour, rye 

Flour, white 

Lemon juicel 

Mflk 

Molasses .... 

Pickles 

Pork 

Salt and ice 

Sugar (granulated and loaf) . 



Total. 



EGGS AND FISH AS MEAT SUBSTITUTES 

Luncheon 





Escalloped eggs 


Baked potatoes 






Spinach salad 


Bread and butter 








Prune whip 






Escalloped Eggs 




Ingredients: 


(4 servings) 


' 


#egg 






4 eggs, hard-cooked in the shell 
Seasonings for the yolks: 




It. 






2H tb. cream (or milk) 




Hash 






Salt (a little less than.J< t.) 




dash 






Paprika 
Medium white sauce: 




3tb. 






1 c. milk or cream 




It. 






2 tb. flour 




#t. 






1-2 tb. butter or a substitute 




dash 






^t. salt 




dash 






Paprika 




#tb. 






4 tb. grated or chopped cheese 
Buttered crumbs: 




2t. 






4 tb. cracker crumbs 




yit. 






1 tb. butter or a substitute 





Method: 

1. Cut eggs in halves lengthwise. 

2. Add cream, salt, and paprika to the yolks, whip until creamy and very 
light, then return the yolks to the whites. 

3. Place the eggs in a single buttered baking dish or in four ramekins. 
*• Pour the white sauce over the eggs, then spread with cheese. 

5. Cover with buttered crumbs. 

6. Bake in a slow oven 15-20 min., or until the cheese is melted and the dish 
is hot throughout. 

f 7. Brown the crumbs by baking 1-2 min. under the flame of the broiling oven. 
8. Serve either hot or cold. 

Notts: 

1. The following ingredients may be added to the sauce: 

Chopped, hard-cooked white or yolk of egg Chopped chicken 

Chopped mushrooms Curry powder 

2. Escalloped eggs are good served cold for a picnic dish. 

3. See page 48 for further suggestions as to escalloped protein foods. 

148 



POOD ECONOMY 



149 





Escalloped Oysters 




(i4» expensive source of protein) 


Ingredients: 




2 small oysters 


1 a oysters 




Medium white sauce: 


2tb. 


1 c. milk or cream 


Xt. 


2 tb. flour 


tft. 


2 tb. butter 


dash 


Salt and paprika 



It. 



4 tb. buttered crumbs 



Method: 

1. Place oysters, white sauce, and seasonings in a buttered baking dish in 
alternate layers. 

2. Cover with buttered crumbs and bake in a slow oven only until hot through- 
out and crumbs are brown; do not allow mixture to boil. 

Motes: 

1. Possible additions to either creamed or escalloped oysters include the following, 
all such additions, as far as possible, to be made the last thing: 

Whole eggs or yolks, beaten 
Lemon juice 
Chopped parsley 

2. As a rule, escalloped oysters are prepared as follows: 

a. Place oysters, seasonings, and broken crackers in a dish in alternate layers. 

b. Add milk to cover, spread with buttered crumbs, and bake. 

3. Are oysters a meat substitute? Compare oysters with meat with regard to both 
nutritive value and cost. 

COMPOSITION OF PROTEIN FOODS 

(Pupil to supply data) 



Food 


Protein 


Fat 


Carbohydrates 


Ash 


Water 


Fuel Value 

PER LB. 


Per Cent 


Per Cent 


Per Cent 


Per Cent 


Per Cent 


Calories 


Almonds 






1 






Beans, soy 














Cheese 














Eggs 














Oysters 














Peanuts 














Salmon 














Steak, round . . . 


























. 




! 











156 



LESSONS IN COOKERY 
Luncheon 



Escalloped salmon 
Bread and butter 

New York ice cream 



Sauteed potato cakes 
Pickles 
Vanilla wafers 



Coffee 



Class to serve the menu to a group of ten teachers or pupils at a minimum 
cost per plate; vary the menu, if preferred. 

Cost of Supplies 

{Pupil to supply data) 



SUPPUES 



Quantity 



Cost 



Bread. 
Butter. 
Coffee. 
Cream. 



Ice and salt 

Milk 

Pickles 

Potatoes 

Salmon. 

Seasoning 

Sugar (granulated and loaf). 
Wafers, vanilla 



Total. 



CHEESE AS A MEAT SUBSTITUTE 

Luncheon 

Cottage cheese with chopped pimentos Turkish pilaf 

Bread and butter 
Fresh fruit 



COTTAGE CHEESE 

I. Types: 

Prepare the three types named in the table below, then make statements as to 
comparative texture and flavor. Use the following ingredients in making each of 
the three types of cheese: 1 c. milk, salt, and 1 t. cream or J^ t. butter. 



Cheese 


Texture and Flavor 


Sour-milk 








Buttermilk 








Sweet-milk 





//. Possible seasonings for any of the above-named cheeses: 
Butter Chopped foods : 

Caraway seeds Nuts 

Cream, plain or whipped Olives, green or ripe 

Olive oil Onions, Spanish 

Paprika Parsley 

Salt Pepper, sweet green 

Pickles 

Pimentos 
If high seasoning is desired, use yi-\ c. olives or pimentos to 1 c. cheese. 

III. Types of sour-milk cottage cheese: 

1. From milk naturally soured. 

2. From milk artificially soured; for example, in some cheese factories lactic 
acid bacilli are added to skim milk and the milk is allowed to stand just over 
night; in the morning it is clotted. This is a time-saving method. 

Sour-Milk Cheese 
Method: 

This method is for use with either type of sour-milk cheese. 
1. Secure milk that has just clabbered or thickened into a jelly; do not use 
milk newer or older than this. 

151 



152 LESSONS IN COOKERY 

2. Without stirring, heat the milk very slowly in a double boiler just until the 
curd hardens sufficiently to separate from the whey. The temperature of the 
milk at this separation point will vary from 98.6° to 140° F., or from 37° to 60° C, 
depending on the acidity of the milk. By no means allow the temperature to rise 
much above 140°-158°F., or 60°-70°C., or the curd will be tough. The milk 
must be quite acid in order to separate at 98.6° F. f or 37° C. 

3. Drain off whey through a sieve or cheesecloth bag; rinse curd with warm 
water. 

4. Squeeze curd to remove all liquid, then season with salt, pepper, and butter 
or thick cream. 

5. Knead with a wooden spoon until curd is finely ground, then beat until 
light and creamy, and pack in molds or form into balls. 

Note: 

1. Sometimes, if the milk is well clabbered, cheese can be made without heating the 
milk at all; simply cut the clabber, then drain off whey. 

2. The whey left from cheese-making is very rich in mineral matter, and contains lactose 
and the water-soluble vitamines. One authority suggests the use of whey in bread-making. 

Buttermilk Cheese 

Method: 

1. Place buttermilk in a double boiler, heat gradually to about 130°-140° F., 
or 55°-60° C, then cool and drain through a muslin bag. 

2. Season and serve the curd in the same way as sour-milk cheese. 

NoUm: 

1. For making small quantities, the method is even simpler than that for sour-milk 
cheese, inasmuch as the quality of cheese does not depend so much on temperature, 

2. Either natural or artificial buttermilk can be used for cheese-making. 

3. Buttermilk cheese is palatable, sanitary, and economical. One bulletin 1 states 
that buttermilk cheese has about the same food value, pound for pound, as lean beef steak, 
which sells at twice the price. 

Sweet-Milk Cottage Cheese 

Method: 

1. Clot sweet milk by means of junket tablets or rennet. 

2. Beat the jellied milk with a fork. 

3. Drain through a fine sieve lined with cheesecloth. 

4. Season and serve the same as sour-milk cheese. 

Notes: 

1. This cheese has an advantage over sour-milk cheese in that the curd is never acid. 

2. In what ways does junket differ from the product obtained in the first step above? 

3. Rennin is extracted from the stomachs of young mammals, such as calves and young 
pigs. Junket tablets are a dry commercial preparation of rennin. Rennet is a commercial 
preparation of rennin in liquid form. 

1 Agricultural Experiment Station of the University of Wisconsin, Bulletin 239, page 24. 



. PART VI 

HOMEMADE BREAD AS A MEANS OF REDUCING 
THE HIGH COST OF LIVING 



SUGGESTIONS FOR LESSONS 

Short-Process Bread 

38. Bread made from any flour 

Bread Derivatives 

i 39. Making of several kinds of small-size derivatives, such as rolls, breadsticks, etc. 

Long-Process Brevd 

40. Sour-dough rye bread 



SHORT-PROCESS BREADS 

The following is given as a basic recipe. By the use of the outline, Appendix 
A, pages 165-170, barley, corn, and numerous other "war" breads can be derived 
from this wheat-bread recipe. 

Short-Process White Bread 

Ingredients: (i loaf) 

1 c. water 
1 1. salt 
1 1. sugar 

1 1. butter or other fat 

Compressed yeast, 1J<*X#"X%" (see Note 1) 
About 3yi c. bread flour 

Method: 

1. Warm the flour slightly if it has been stored in a cool place. 

2. Bring the water just to the boiling point, then add the salt, sugar, and fat. 
(If milk is substituted for water, simply scald it.) Why is it wise to heat the 
liquid to so high a temperature? 

3. Cool the liquid to lukewarm temperature, that is, to 98-99° F., or about 
37° C. (A simple test for lukewarm temperature is as follows: Place a drop or 
two of the water on a sensitive part of the skin, such as the inner side of the 
wrist; if lukewarm, the water feels neither warm nor cool.) 

4. Remove about % of the lukewarm liquid; blend with the yeast, then return 
to the remainder of the liquid. 

6. Gradually beat the warmed flour into the liquid. 

6. Knead the dough 10-20 min. on a board. 

7. Let stand in a warm place (78-79° F., or about 26° C.) until double in bulk; 
keep it covered so as to avoid drafts. A practical plan for the pupil, especially, 
is to set the bread to rise in the greased top of a double boiler; use the "wrist 
test" so as to keep the water in the lower part at lukewarm temperature. 

8. Knead 5 min. and let rise the second time until double in bulk. 

9. With almost no kneading, shape into a loaf, place in a baking pan 
$WX3H"X3", and let rise the third time until double in bulk. 

10. Bake 45 min. in a moderate oven. 

Notes: 

1. There is no standard to-day for the size and price of compressed yeast cakes. As 
a rule, compressed yeast is much cheaper when bought in bulk; a penny's worth varies in 
quantity according to the dealer. Much package yeast is sold for $0.02-10.03 per cake. 
The yeast called for in the given recipe is % of the $0.02-10.03 cake, or # of the $0.01 
package yeast formerly sold to a great extent. 

155 



166 LESSONS IN COOKERY 

2. The total time required for the recipe is 7 hr.; no sponge is used. One or both of 
the following methods may be used for reducing the time: 

a. Double the yeast; by thus doubling the yeast, bread can be made in Zy£ hr. 
(see class recipe below). 

b. Omit one rising, thus reducing the time to 6 hr.; bread made in this way is 
not so fine in texture. Note that the class recipe below omits one rising. 

If a sponge is used in making the short-process bread, the time is lengthened. Note 
that short-process bread made with compressed yeast is better if no sponge is used. 

3. Long-process bread can be made from this recipe if both the following changes 
are made: 

a. Use }i cake dry yeast in place of the required quantity of compressed yeast. 
If preferred, simply reduce the amount of compressed yeast; either compressed 
or dry yeast goes eight times as far in long-process bread as in short-process 
bread. 

b. Make a sponge at night, using only \% c. flour; beat this sponge thoroughly 
and let stand all night at 66° F., or 21° C. In the morning knead in the 
remainder of flour. Complete the process as with the "short method," 
allowing two subsequent kneadings. 

Long-process bread usually is made with dry yeast for the following reasons: 

a. Dry yeast is cheaper. 

b. Dry yeast keeps for weeks. Long-process breads made with compressed 
and dry yeasts are, however, equally good. 

Long-process bread is cheaper than short-process bread; the latter is more expensive on 
account of the large quantity of yeast used. Short-process bread made with compressed 
yeast is less economical than long-process bread made with either compressed or dry yeast; 
compressed yeast is expensive. 

4. In bread-making, study economy of time and of labor, as well as of money. 

5. The exact quantity of water required in a given recipe for bread or for any other 
flour mixture varies according to the brand of flour used; this is an important point to 
remember. 

6. It is well to grease the top slightly each time before setting bread dough aside to rise. 

7. See table of graham and other wheat flours, Appendix, pages 220, 221. 

Class Recipe for Short-Process Bread 

Ingredients: 

}4 c. water or milk 

Mft.salt ■ 

y£-\ t. sweetening (see Note 3) 

^ t. fat 

Compressed yeast, Xtf* X}4'XH" 

lyi c. sifted flour (see Note 2) 

Method: 

Use the method given on page 155, but omit step 8. Allow 3-3J^ hr. for 
making any bread, even nut-fruit bread; this includes 30 min. baking in a hot 
oven. Bake each loaf in a tin 5"X2}^ tf t bottom measurement. 



FOOD ECONOMY 157 

Note*: 

1. This recipe may be used for white, whole-wheat, sweet-rye, and various other short* 
process breads. The only ingredients that vary in quality are the sweetening and flour. 

2. For the first bread lesson of the high-school course it is suggested that each pupil 
make a loaf of bread from one or any combination of the following flours: 

White Rice 

Whole-wheat Corn 

Rye Etc. 

Barley __ 

In white wheat bread use all white or "bread" flour. In making any other bread use 
10-25 per cent "substitute " flour, and bread flour to make up the required quantity. (See 
Appendix, page 167, "Principles of Substitution," II, a.) An even larger proportion of 
certain substitute flours may be used; for instance, a good loaf of bread results from the 
use of the following: 

Ji c. bread flour 

lJi c. rye (or whole-wheat) flour 
The total quantity of flour (1J^ c.) called for in the recipe may vary slightly owing to 
differences in flour and in measuring. 

A nut-fruit bread can be derived from any of the breads by working the following 
ingredients into the dough during the kneading process: 
2-4 tb. chopped nuts 
2-4 tb. raisins or currants 
If all the flours are measured the previous day, as many as 8-10 kinds of bread can be 
prepared easily in the one lesson. All discussion of the lesson also should occur on the 
day previous to that on which the class recipe is baked. 

3. Use y£ t. granulated sugar in white bread; 1 1. molasses is suggested for whole-wheat 
bread, and 1 t. brown sugar for sweet-rye bread. 

4. If preferred, use #-M c. liquid as the basis of a class recipe. 



WHITE-BREAD DERIVATIVES 



All white-bread derivatives are prepared from either of the following doughs: 
Plain dough 

Rich dough, that is, a dough containing more or less of the following 
ingredients: 

Cocoa (for example, \}4 tb. Nuts 

dry cocoa to 3 c. flour) Spice 

Eggs Sugar 

Fat Etc. 

Fruit: 

Citron, shredded or chopped 
Currants or raisins 
Orange peel 

THREE GROUPS OF DERIVATIVES 

J. Derivatives of large size: 

Breads (such as nut or raisin) 
Cakes, including the following: 

Brioche 

Coffee cake 

Dutch apple-cake 

Election cake 

Etc. 



II. Rolls of various forms: 
Braided 
Butterfly 
Cleft 
Clover-leaf (using well-buttered 

hands, squeeze off three small 

balls of light dough into a 

muffin tin; let rise, and bake) 
Crescent 
Envelope 
Figure 8 
Horseshoe 

Notes: 

1. Poppy seeds or chopped peanuts may be scattered over any of the rolls listed. 

2. Caramel rolls result if Swedish rolls are baked in pans containing quite a quantity 
of butter and brown sugar or molasses. 

158 



Hot-cross buns, filling the crevices of 
the cross with any of the following : 

Ornamental frosting (by use of 
a pastry tube) 

Poppy seeds 

Sugar and cinnamon 
Lady-finger 

Parkerhouse, or pocketbook 
Spherical 

Swedish, or cinnamon 
Twisted (in simple forms) 



FOOD ECONOMY 159 

III. Other derivatives of small size: 
Breadsticks 
Cheese straws or squares, made in the following way: 

a. Place grated cheese between two thicknesses of thin dough. 

b. Cut with a special cheese-straw cutter, and bake. 
Doughnuts, twists, and crullers, fried 

Lattice work, made as follows: 

a. Spread a thin oblong piece of dough with sugar, spice, and apple 
or other fruit. 

6. Place lattice work of dough over all, and bake. 
Muffins: 

a. Baked in ordinary muffin tins. 

6. English. 
Waffles (often more delicious than those leavened with baking powder) 

Notes: 

1. Many of the large and small derivatives mentioned may be prepared also from, any 
of the following-named bread doughs: 

Graham 
Rye or barley 
Whole-wheat 
Etc. 
Envelope rolls and a few other derivatives may be prepared also from baking-powder 
biscuit dough. 

2. The instructor is to provide a large slice of light bread dough for each pupil; each 
pupil should prepare from this dough 8-10 small derivatives. 



MISCELLANEOUS BREADS 



Long-Process Sour-Dough Rye Bread 

(Between 3:1 and 4:1) 



Ingredients:. 

He. 
Ht. 
Ht. 
It. 

(H2 of a 

$0.01 
It. 
ltfc. 
He. 
2-4 tb. 



cake) 



(1 loaf) 

2 c. lukewarm water 
2H t. salt 
2 t. sugar 

4 t. fat (such as butterine) 

Compressed yeast, IH'xH'xH* (one-third of the package cake 
generally sold in former times for $0.01) 

4 t. caraway seeds 

5 c. rye flour 

2 c. bread flour 

H~H c. bread flour for flouring the board during the two periods of knead- 
ing (use enough flour for easy kneading, but avoid too stiff a dough) 



Method: 

1. Blend the yeast with 1 tb. lukewarm water; use 1 1. water in the class recipe. 

2. Add the salt, sugar, fat, caraway seeds, and remainder of water. 

3. Add 5 c. rye flour and 2 c. bread flour and knead on board 10-20 min. 

4. Place in a greased bowl, grease top of dough slightly, cover, and let rise in 
a warm place 2-3 hr. ; allow 1 J^ hr. for the class recipe. 

6. Knead on a board 3-5 min. 

6. Place in a greased pan Q^X^XS", grease top surface of loaf, and let rise 
over nigl;t; do not cover the loaf at all, or the top surface is likely to be roughened. 
The slow rising develops the sour flavor. 

7. Without cutting down the bread, bake the first thing in the morning, or as 
soon as the loaf is twice its original bulk; bake about 1 hr. in a moderate oven. 
For the class recipe allow 30-40 min. in a hot oven; do not bake until it rises even 
with the top of a h"X2H" tin (bottom measurement). The large recipe when 
baked should extend to the top of the tin or a little above the top. 

Notes: 

1. Start work with the large recipe the latter part of the afternoon. 

2. Sour-dough rye bread is a cheap recipe in that the quantity of yeast required is small. 

3. A coarse and almost black sour-dough rye bread known as pumpernickel is made from 
pumpernickel flour, a coarse product obtained by grinding the whole rye kernel. The 
black color of the bread is due to the slow rising process as well as to the use of molasses, 
breadcrumbs, and pumpernickel flour (about as dark as graham flour). 

160 



FOOD ECONOMY 161 

Self-Rising Bread 1 

Ingredients: (x loaf) 

1 c. milk 
It. salt 

1 tb. sugar 

2 tb. white corn meal 

1 tb. fat (may be omitted) 
Flour 

Method: 

1. Scald the milk, then cool to lukewarm temperature. 

2. Add the salt, sugar, and corn meal, place the mixture in a fruit jar or a heavy 
crock or. pitcher, cover, and surround the receptacle by water at about 120° F., or 
49° C. ; water at this temperature is the hottest in which the hand can be held 
without discomfort. Allow this "leaven" to stand 6-24 hr., or until it shows 
signs of fermentation; if it has fermented sufficiently, the gas can be heard as it 
escapes. 

3. Make a soft sponge by adding 1 c. flour to the leaven, beat thoroughly, and 
let stand at 120° F., or 49° C, until very light. 

4. Add fat melted and cooled, then gradually add more flour to make a dough 
so stiff that it can be kneaded without sticking to the hands or the board. 

5. Knead 10-15 min., place in a pan, let rise until about two and one-half times 
its original bulk, then bake. 

Notes: 

1. Self-rising bread is commonly called salt-rising bread. The gas produced by bac- 
teria is the chief leavening agent; this absence of commercial yeast means a low cost of bread. 

2. Compare the size of this loaf with a loaf of ordinary bread made on a basis of 1 c. 
liquid; note that self -rising bread is never so light as bread raised with commercial yeast. 

3. Make the following changes in the recipe if more than one loaf of bread is desired: 

a. For each additional loaf, add the following ingredients to the leaven: 

1 c. water 1 tb. sugar 

It. salt ltb. fat 

b. Use extra flour for each additional loaf (including 1 c. extra flour added to the 
"sponge"). 

4. The secret of success with salt-rising bread is to keep it warm throughout the 
process of making; for example, in the second and third steps of the given method maintain 
the temperature at 120° F., or 49° C, as far as possible, for the full period of rising. 
Avoid cold draughts throughout the process. In case the flour in the bin is cold, warm 
it slightly before using. 

5. The use of %-}£ the given recipe is suggested for class work. 

6. Compare salt-rising bread with ordinary bread with respect to the following points: 

Cost Texture of baked loaf 

Temperature used in rising Taste of baked loaf 

Rapidity of rising 
1 Adapted very largely from U.S. Farmers* Bulletin 807, " Bread and Bread Making in the 
Home," by Hunt and Wesslin^. 



162 LESSONS IN' COOKERY 

7. Discuss the history of self -rising breads, and the evolution of leavened breads from 
them. 

8. A salt-rising yeast is in the market to-day; it is a dry product composed of the type 
of bacteria which has been found especially dependable in making salt-rising bread. 

Corn-Meal Sweet-Potato Bread 1 

Ingredients: 

\Yl qt. fine corn meal ) j 2% qt. fine corn meal 

2J^ qt. wheat flour J ( \\i qt. wheat flour 

2 1. salt 

1 pt. mashed sweet potatoes 

1 cake yeast 

Method: 

1. Mix 1 pt. each of the corn meal and the flour. 

2. Add warm water to form a stiff batter, also the yeast cake, mixed with a 
small quantity of water. Keep this sponge in a warm place until light. 

3. Scald the remainder of the meal with boiling water, cool, and add it, 
together with the potatoes, salt, and remainder of flour, to the sponge. The 
dough should be just thick enough to knead without danger of its sticking to 
the board. Experience will teach how much water to use to secure this end. 
Knead well, and set in a warm place to rise. 

4. When it is light form into loaves, put into bread pans, and let rise until 
double in bulk. Bake in a moderate oven. 



Adapted from U. S. Farmers* Bulletin 565, "Corn Meal as a Pood and Ways of Using It,*' 
_pa ge 15, recipe for South Carolina yeast corn bread. 



APPENDIX 



APPENDIX 1 

PART A. SUBSTITUTES FOR THE CHIEF WHEAT FLOURS 

SUBSTITUTES 

Chief wheat flours are white (that is, bread and pastry flours), whole-wheat, and graham. 
Group I. Dry materials {flours and meals): 
*Alf alf a (flour or meal) 
♦Banana, dried, ripe or unripe 
Barley 

Bran (wheat) 
Buckwheat 
♦Cassava 
Cereal, cooked or semi-cooked in the factory (such as flaked rice, rolled oats, 

shredded wheat, etc.). Roll or grind to a meal or flour. 
♦Chestnut 

Corn (meal, flour, and starch) 
Cottonseed (flour and meal) 
*Dasheen 

Left-over breadstuff (such as bread, muffins, etc.; see Note 5) 
Legume, such as: 
Dried pea 

Peanut (flour and meal) 
Dried navy and soy bean 
♦Millet 

Nut (such as almond) 
Oat (meal, flakes, and flour) 
Potato, white or sweet 
♦Rajse 
Rice, polished or unpolished (flour made from polished rice yields a very white 

cake or bread) 
Rye 
♦Sago 
♦Sorghum (such as kafir) 

Group II. Moist materials: 

. Starchy vegetables, boiled and mashed, including the following: 
Artichoke, Jerusalem Potato, sweet or white 

K Dasheen Yam 

Chestnuts, boiled and mashed 

Left-over cooked cereals (such as corn meal, rice, oatmeal, or farina) 
Raw bananas, mashed (useful in cookies, etc.) 
Pumpkin or squash, cooked and mashed 
*In this appendix pupil is to supply data for any problems (tables, etc.) given. 

165 



166 LESSONS IN COOKERY 

Notts: 

1. All members of both groups are useful in flour mixtures in general, including yeast 
breads, baking-powder biscuits, muffins, cakes, etc. 

2. The materials the names of which are preceded by an asterisk are among those less 
commonly sold. If information about these is desired, send for various government bulletins. 
Alfalfa flour or meal is made from alfalfa leaves and upper stalks. It is a comparative 
novelty as yet and its use, as well as that of certain other materials listed, is still more or 
less experimental. Consult bulletins of the Kansas Agricultural Experiment Station, 

3. Group I materials are uncooked except in the case of the left-over breadstuffs and the 
breakfast cereals. Group II materials are cooked, except in the case of bananas. 

4. An excellent fine flour results from grinding rolled oats in a handmill or in a fine- 
blade meat-grinder. 

5. Dry left-over breadstuffs, then grind in a meat-grinder to either fine flour or crumbs; 
a grinder is not essential in the preparation of crumbs. 

6. Most of the Group I substitutes for wheat are ground either fine or coarse; oats, 
barley, rye, corn, and peanuts are so treated. Oats are ground into fine flour, into fine 
steel-cut oatmeal, etc. Corn is ground into a fine flour, yellow or white, as well as into 
granulated corn meal, yellow or white; corn flour is not to be confused with "cornstarch." 
Note economy in using broken rice for flour. A handmill is very useful in the home for pre- 
paring various flours and meals, such as soy-bean flour or meal and nut meals. 



PRINCIPLES OF SUBSTITUTION 
/. Function of viscous substances in flour mixtures: 

In substituting other materials for wheat the chief difficulty is to find a substitute for 
the gluten (viscous and elastic) of wheat. Barley and other wheat substitutes contain less 
gluten than wheat flours. 

Three viscous substances used in flour mixtures are: * - 

a. Gluten of wheat, etc. 

b. Albumin of egg 

c. Stiff cooked starch paste 1 (Suggested as a substitute for either gluten or egg 
in baking. Not commonly used. Used cold.) 

Functions of all three viscous substances are: 

To bind particles together 

To give lightness, because they hold in the gas of leavening agents 

//. Quantity of wheat substitutes dependent on the quality of viscous substances present: 

a. The porous texture of flour mixtures not containing eggs, such as the follow- 
ing, depends only on the gluten content of the flour: 

Biscuits 
Crackers 
Pastries 
Yeast breads 

1 Journal of Home Economics, December, 1917, pages 537-538. 



FOOD ECONOMY 167 

Rides for substitution: As a general rule, any item listed in either Group I 
or II can be substituted for 10-25 per cent of the wheat flour ordinarily 
used in these mixtures; suit convenience' and taste, and use the substi- 
tutes singly or in any combination. In some cases the proportion may run 
to 50 per cent or higher. Many flours and meals (Group I) cannot be used 
singly in making good yeast bread. Why? Name some such flours. 

b. The porous texture of flour mixtures containing eggs, such as the following, 
depends both on the gluten content of the flour and on the amount of egg: 

Cakes 

Muffins 

Etc. 

Rules for substitution: In the majority of cases, wheat flour can be displaced 
entirely by substitutes from either Group I or II; use the substitutes singly 
or in any combination. 

c. The porous texture of flour mixtures made with or without eggs, and con- 
taining less than 30 per cent of wheat bread flour, depends chiefly on the 
use of a cooked starch paste made from part or all of the "bread" flour used 
and from the water or other liquid used for wetting. This paste has tenacity 
enough to hold the gas. 



Notes 



1. (a) In substituting dry materials (Group I) for wheat flours, substitute an equal 

weight, not an equal volume ; for example, omit one-fourth of the wheat flour from 
a recipe and in its place use an equal weight of barley, corn, or other flour. Equal 
measures of various flours differ in weight (1 c. wheat bread flour weighs 
about 4 oz.); work is made simple by referring to the following list: 

For 1 cup of white flour use 1# cups barley flour. 
For 1 cup of white flour use # cup buckwheat. 
For 1 cup of white flour use K cup corn meal. 
For 1 cup of white flour use 1 cup corn flour. 
For 1 cup of white flour use $i cup rice flour. 
For 1 cup of white flour use yi cup oat flour. 
For 1 cup of white flour use % cup potato flour. 

(b) In substituting moist materials (Group II) for wheat flours, do not substitute 
by weight, since allowance must be made for the varying water content of the 
"moist materials" due to cooking, etc. 

2. The flour and crumbs prepared from left-over breadstuffs are a great source of 
economy in gingerbread and other flour mixtures. Use 25-50 per cent in muffins and 25-33 
per cent in yeast graham bread. 

3. The best cooks recommend the following when wheat flour is the only flour used: 

Bread flour in all flour mixtures made without eggs 
Pastry flour in all flour mixtures containing eggs 
Pupil to explain the two statements in the light of the foregoing outline. Note that 
the gluten of pastry flour differs both in quantity and in quality from that of bread flour. 



168 



LESSONS IN COOKERY 



u 

u < 



13 








4|! 




E £ _g .« jg 



>, ii i 

iS 
I: 

lilt 

E 



* a 



ij* 



*« 



ill 

ha 




3 1 

s i 

SB j 

- * tan 






5 u E 

^ 'J i 



ill 



S|S. 

1:1 

gill 

CO 



8 

CO 



si 



I 

m 



& 

CI 



I 



g 



B a 



^ 
^ 



i 



! 



FOOD ECONOMY 



169 



issua 








5 2 p §8» 



ill 



mi 





J5 







iSJt 





e 
8 

h 

CI 



2 
CO 



8 

Q 

s 



I 



EN 



• I 

z 




5*$ 

g, 3 g O £ 



c 
8 

S. 
3 



8 

CM 




Pu>, 



! 



P 

2 



i 

3 









& 



170 LESSONS IN COOKERY 

FURTHER NOTES ON SUBSTITUTES FOR WHEAT FLOUR 

1. Groups I and II of substitutes are often of special importance in the following instances: 

a. When, for any reason, there is a lowered supply of wheat. 

b. When the diet requires any of the following: 

Variety 

Increase in mineral content 
Increase in laxative elements 
The last two requirements are best met by the use of the whole-grain products, such as 
rye, oats, barley, or unpolished rice. (Note similar values of the whole kernel of wheat.) 

2. For the following reasons the items listed in Groups I and II are not necessarily 
substitutes for wheat with respect to food value: 

a. Wheat flours have varying food value; compare white flour with graham 
flour (see list of flours, page 221). 

b. The following Group I flours and meals have high protein value; if used in 
bread, etc., they must be given credit in the meal for their value as meat 
substitutes: 

Alfalfa flour Legume flour (navy or soy-bean, etc.) 

Nut meal (such as almond) Cottonseed flour 
Gluten flour, a wheat product, also has high protein value. 

3. Better results are obtained when two, three, or more substitute flours are combined 
in making bread, muffins, etc. The following flour combinations are among those which 
have been found successful: 

YBAST ROLLS YEAST ROLLS YSAST BREAD 

80 per cent wheat 60 per cent barley 60 per cent barley 

15 per cent corn 30 per cent rye 20 per cent com 

5 per cent rice 20 per cent rice 15 per cent rice 

15 per cent buckwheat 
Good muffins are made by using a mixture of rye flour and fine steel-cut oatmeal. Bar- 
ley and oat flour or meal make a very good combination for any flour mixture. 

4. All substitutes. for wheat flours require more salt and longer cooking than wheat 
flours. 

5. Where less than 30 per cent of wheat flour is used in making yeast breads, it has been 
found well to double the quantity of yeast. 

6. Disguise rye and other strong-flavored flours by means of any of the following: 

Chocolate Brown sugar (for use with rye and barley flours) 

Spice Orange peel (good in rye rolls) 

Molasses Etc. 

7. Note possible exercises for the pupil: 

a. Add to Groups I and II of substitutes for wheat. 

b. Discuss the substitutes for wheat with respect to cost, palatability, popularity 
in the various countries, etc. 

c. Prepare an exhibit; fill small bottles or boxes with samples of the various 
flours and meals. 

d. Make a collection of recipes for the use of the various substitutes; see maga- 
zines, etc. Pupil is also to devise recipes of her own. 



PART B. MISCELLANEOUS THRIFT SUGGESTIONS 

THE USES OP LEFT-OVER FOODS 

Left-overs are a great source of economy in the home; they are especially valuable in 
the preparation of made dishes, such as the complete-dish series and casserole dishes in 
general. They may be used in the following ways: 

/. Meat: 

Salads 

Escalloped dishes 

Souffles 

Stew or soup (for example, left-over meat and bones from platter are good for 

soup stock) 
Hash 

Loaves, baked or steamed 
Sliced meat, served cold 
Creamed meat on toast 
Etc. 

//. Sour milk, skimmed or whole: 
Cottage cheese 
Flour mixtures 

///. Fats: 

Drippings (of use in various cooking processes; see page 173) 
Raw meat trimmings (when rendered, of use in frying, etc.; see page 174) 
Left-over butter, such as that left on butter plates (if clean, to be used for 
cooking; keep in a wide-necked jar) 

IV. Vegetables, cooked or raw: 

Salads 

Escalloped dishes 

Souffles 

Addition to stews and soups; for example, the leaves and inferior stalks of celery 

are a good addition to the soup-kettle 
Sauteed or otherwise reheated dishes 
Etc. 

V. Breakfast cereals in general: 

Mush; baked, fried, or sauteed 

Addition to soup or stew 

Addition to muffins and other flour mixtures 

Partial thickening for sauces (see use of farina in white sauce) 

Meat balls 

Meat loaves 

Etc. 

171 



172 LESSONS IN COOKERY 

VI. Rice or hominy: 

Croquettes 

Escalloped dishes containing cheese, meat, tomatoes, etc. 

Puddings 

VII. SUUe bread: 

Puddings (such as bread) 
French toast 

Stuffing of poultry and fish 
Crumbs, both dry and buttered: 

Escalloped dishes 

Breading of chops, etc. 

Coating of fried articles 
Toast: 

Plain toast 

Toast cases or croustades 

Croutons 

Toast points and sticks 

Notes on the use of stale bread: 

1. Bread, biscuits, and cake which are not too stale may be freshened either by moisten- 
ing slightly with water, milk, or melted butter and heating in the oven, or by placing in a 
steamer over boiling water and steaming 2-3 min. Such steamed cake is palatable served 
with a sauce as a pudding. 

2. Stale bread, such as white, rye, graham, or bran, may be treated as follows: 

a. Heat in a slow oven until very dry and^a golden brown. 

b. Cool, and grind to a very coarse meal, or crush with a rolling-pin. 

c. Serve with cream and sugar as a breakfast cereal. 

3. For the grinding of stale dry biscuits, bread, etc., into flour, see page 166, Note 5. 

4. Dried bread crumbs are prepared as follows: 

a. Collect crusts and broken pieces of stale bread and toast. 

b. Break into small pieces and dry thoroughly in the open air or in a slow oven, 
such as a warming oven; brown the bread slightly or not, as desired. 

c. Pass through a meat-grinder, or roll on the molding board. 

d. Sift, if desired, using a flour-sifter. 

e. Store in covered glass jars in a dry place; if jars are air-tight, the crumbs 
keep indefinitely. 

Stale crackers may be treated in the same way as bread, but should be kept in separate 
jars. It is possible to buy cracker crumbs already prepared; matzoh meal is usually an 
inexpensive form of these. 

Note the chief uses of dried crumbs: 

Preparation of buttered crumbs (see page 51) 
Rolling of croquettes and other foods to be fried or saut^ed 
These fine dry crumbs (bread or cracker) are not to be used in the following: 
Stuffing of fish, poultry, and meat 
Croquettes (except on the surface) 
Escalloped dishes (except on the top surface) 
Fine crumbs make the three foregoing dishes heavy; use instead coarse crumbs, stale, 
but not very dry. 



FOOD ECONOMY 173 

HOMEMADE EXTRACTS 

Orange or Lemon Extract 

Ingredients: 

Essential oil, \% oz. 

Rind (just the oily part), \% oz. 

Absolute alcohol enough to make 1 qt. 

Orange, Lemon, or Other Citrous-Fruit Extract 

Ingredients: 

95 per cent alcohol (a fat solvent) 

Rind of citrous fruits, chopped, secured as follows: 

a. Wash and dry fruit (such as orange, lemon, or tangerine). 

b. Remove only the colored and oily part of the rind, rejecting 
the white skin. 

c. Grind the oily rind in a meat-grinder. 

Method: 

1. Place the ground rind in bottles, cover with twice its volume of 95 per 
cent alcohol, and shake well. 

2. Add a glass stopper to bottle, and let stand not longer than 2-3 days. Why 
does the alcohol change color i 

3. Strain into clean bottles, using filter paper ii aesired; discard rind. 

Note: 

Vanilla extract can be secured from ground vanilla beans by much the same process. 

FATS 
/. Drippings: 

These are used chiefly in sautemg and as a butter substitute for seasoning vegetables. 
Keep them covered in a cool place in earthen or other jars. Drippings, numerous in kind, are 
the fats (more or less strongly flavored) left over when certain methods of cooking meats are 
employed, such as the following: 

Boiling: Use the fat skimmed from water in which poultry, corned beef, etc., 

have been cooked; such corned-beef fat keeps indefinitely. 
Broiling 

Roasting: Use the fat skimmed from the gravies, such as: 
Chicken 
Pork 
Veal 
Sauteuig: 

Ham or bacon 
Pork 
Sausage 
It is often desirable to secure additional flavor for drippings by cooking seasonings in 
them; note the use of onion, salt, pepper, summer savory or thyme, etc., in so-called "savory" 
drippings. Mutton drippings (usually ignored), if highly seasoned, are economical. 

Drippings may be clarified by either of the methods (page 87) used to clarify frying fats. 



174 LESSONS IN COOKERY 

II. Rendered fat: 

This is fat tried out from the uncooked fat of meat, and is of chief use for frying. 

Method: 

1. Cut the fat into small pieces of uniform size; or a still better plan with most 
fats is to grind them fine in a meat-grinder. Use any of the following: 

Beef suet 

Chicken or goose fat 

Pork kidney fat (legf lard results from this) 

Salt-pork fat 

Trimmings from steaks, roasts, etc. (See Note 1) 
Remove all bits of skin or lean meat from the fat before grinding, since they 
are likely to scorch by sticking to the kettle, thereby imparting a scorched flavor 
to the fat. 

2. Cover with cold water and, stirring often, heat slowly until all the fat sepa- 
rates from the connective tissue, and the connective tissue (scraps or cracklings) 
remaining is shriveled, light brown, and floating on the fat. Heat until no water 
remains — that is, until all signs of boiling and spattering cease. A low tem- 
perature is essential in heating the fat. A double boiler is often used so as to 
insure a low temperature; or sometimes the fat is heated in the oven. 

3. Cool slightly and drain through a sieve lined with cheesecloth or muslin; 
press the scraps of connective tissue so as to remove all fat. 

4. Pour into pails, crocks, cans, or jelly jars; let stand until hard, then cover 
and store in a cool dry place. 

Notes: 

1. Be sure that the butcher delivers all trimmings with the meat order, that is, all 
trimmings paid for. 

2. An excellent method for removing the distinctive flavor from beef fat is to heat it 
in skim milk rather than water; use '}4 c. milk to each lb. fat. See step 2 above. Such 
rendered fat is satisfactory in biscuit dough, and is often a butter substitute, even being 
used on bread. (Test this use of skim milk with strong fats other than beef, such as mutton.)' 

3. Mutton suet, if treated as follows, is a great source of economy in the home: 

a. Grind 2 c. mutton suet and 1 c. leaf lard in the meat-grinder. 

b. Mix with whole milk and render in a double boiler; use y£ c. milk to each lb. 
of the mixed fats. 

4. If water or milk is not added to the fat at the beginning, it is well to add hot melted 
lard or other fat; otherwise the fat is likely to burn before it is much melted. 

5. Estimate the cost of fat per lb. by weighing the fat before and after rendering; com- 
pare cost with the cost of commercial fats. 

6. Beef fat is a hard fat; likewise mutton. The housekeeper can often make any hard 
fat more usable by mixing softer fats with it, such as lard or vegetable oils. 

7. Cracklings contain considerable fat; use them as follows: 

As an addition to corn-meal mush 
. As shortening in corn bread, etc. (mash the cracklings fine before using) 

8. Study the structure and composition of beef suet or other fat meat; use a microscope 
if one is available. Define connective tissue. 



FOOD ECONOMY 175 

GENERAL THRIFT HINTS FOR HOUSEKEEPERS 

/. Protein foods in general: 

1. Use meat substitutes, such as eggs, milk, cheese, fish, and legumes; see list, page 48. 

2. Note the extravagance of using protein foods as fuel in the body; a small amount 
of protein is essential each day for building purposes only. 

II. Milk: 

1. All of the following are cheap sources of protein, the last three being especially useful 
in cooking: 

Whole milk, essential in children's diet (a cheap food even at $0.12-$0.15 per qt.) 

Skim milk (sometimes obtainable for $0.12 per gal.) 

Sour milk 

Buttermilk (often an economy if used in place of milk) 
Any one of the following whole-milk dishes is a possible basis for a meatless meal: 

Cream soup Popcorn and milk 

Custard Bread and milk 

It is often economical in baking or other cooking to use either condensed or powdered 
milk; this is true in the classroom as well as in the home. (Note that in drying skim milk 
to a powder all the nutrients, including the valuable mineral matter, are saved.) The 
substitution of water for milk in baking and other cooking is often a source of economy; 
note, however, that the food value is reduced. 

2. Skim milk, as used in the following dishes, often has more or less value as a meat 
substitute in the diet: 

Bread and milk Desserts: 

Cereals cooked in milk Junket 

Creamed dishes Milk sherbets 

Cocoa and chocolate, made with all milk Puddings: 

Escalloped dishes Bread 

Some cream soups Cornstarch 

Rice, or ground cereal 
Tapioca 

3. Buttermilk and sour skim milk are used in various recipes; for instance, in preparing 
cottage cheese,. also in griddle cakes and other flour mixtures. Buttermilk, too, is some- 
times made into a soup; it is also good as a beverage. As a rule, the combination of sour 
milk and soda is cheaper than sweet milk and baking powder. 

III. Eggs: 

1. Store eggs, preferably in water glass, for use in winter. 

2. Buy cold-storage eggs for cooking in the winter time. 

3. Use egg substitute (a powder) at times. It is a leavening substitute for eggs, but 
it differs greatly from eggs in food value. 

IV. Sweets: y 

1. Conserve fruits by drying, canning, making of jelly, etc. 

2. Prepare economical candies; fruit candies, one of the most popular of such candies, 
include the following: 

Glace* fruit (such as taffy apples and other fruit) 
Orange straws and other homemade candied fruit 



176 LESSONS IN COOKERY 

3. Develop sweetness in prunes, baked apples, and other fruits by very long slow cooking. 
Add no sugar to the fruits in the beginning. 

V. Breadstuff*: 

1. Which is cheaper, homemade or bakers' bread? It is a recognized fact that boarding 
houses save very much by making their own breadstuff s; many times the same rule applies 
to the home. The following are made more cheaply at home: 

Biscuits Cakes Pies 

Bread Cookies Etc. 

2. If buying bread, buy the stale loaves if possible, for the following reasons: 

a. Stale bread is more wholesome. 

b. Bread a day old or older often costs only half as much as fresh bread; it is 
especially good for sandwiches. 

As a general thing, stale bread can be purchased at the bakery only, not at the grocery. 

3. Note the economy of corn pone and other flour mixtures made without yeast or 
other commercial leaven; many leavens are expensive. 

VI. Vegetables: 

1. Conserve vegetables by drying and canning. 

2. Cook weeds as greens. 

3. Pare potatoes, etc., with thin parings. 

VII. Fats: 

1. Avoid the most expensive fats, that is, olive oil, butter, and cream; note that top-milk 
is an inexpensive form of cream. Use the less expensive fats in cooking; most of the follow- 
ing, many of which can be used as butter substitutes, are among the cheaper fats: 
Animal fats: 

Bacon or ham ends 
Lard 

Oleomargarine 
Salt pork 
Suet 
Tallow 

Chicken or goose fat 

Savory drippings (such as freshly rendered leaf lard and suet, pleasantly 
flavored with onion, thyme, and other savory herbs, making a possible 
butter substitute) 
Vegetable fats: 

Nut oil (such as peanut or almond) 
Corn oil (such as Mazola) 
Cottonseed oil (such as Wesson) 
(Wesson and other oils can be used in baking pancakes, baking-powder 
biscuits, pastry, cakes, etc.) 
Various commercial derivatives of animal fats and vegetable oils: 
Cottosuet 

Crisco 1 Both composed of vegetable oil which has been converted into 
Crusto J the solid form by chemical means 
Snowdrift 
Nut margarine (coconut oil, in part) 



FOOD ECONOMY 177 

2 Use drippings for sautling and home-rendered fat for frying (see pages 173, 174). 

3. Use butter substitutes, not butter, for greasing tins and other dishes. 

4. Gravy can often be substituted for butter in a meal. 

5. Jams and jellies are often a means of saving butter on bread, as in the making of 
sandwiches. 

6. Milk, or a mixture of milk and cream, is often a source of economy as a "butter 
extender." Beat 1 pt. milk into 1 lb. butter by means of a Dover beater. Add salt, or 
serve as "sweet butter." Add coloring if desired, then chill. A little dissolved gelatin is 
sometimes whipped in with the milk. Note that "extenders" increase the bulk of butter, 
but decrease its food value per unit of volume. 

VIII. Miscellaneous foods: 

1. Make homemade vinegars, such as the following: 

Cider and other fruit vinegars 
Flavored vinegars, for use in salads, etc.: 

Celery vinegar: Add celery seed and fresh celery to common vinegar. 

Onion vinegar: Add onions to common vinegar. 

Tarragon vinegar: Add a bunch of tarragon leaves to common vinegar. 

2. Use cheaper baking powders, if they are recommended by food experts. 

3. Economize in coffee by boiling a small quantity of chicory in the pot with the coffee; 
$0.05 is an average price at a grocery for one "stick" of powdered chicory. 

4. Use flavorings; the use of flavoring is economical, for by it inexpensive foods can be 
varied and made palatable. Use citric acid crystals in place of lemon many times. 

5. In many cases substitute sheet for box gelatin. 

IX. Economy in buying: 

1. Trade at cash stores; the credit system is paid for by the customer. 

2. Go to market, do not telephone; quality is assured in this way. The telephone 
costs, too. Carry a basket to market if charge is made for delivery; note the value of the 
"cash-and-carry" stores. . 

3. Trade at the grocers' late Saturday night and thereby secure reduction on perishables. 

4. Buy foods in quantity, and at wholesale prices if possible. 

Caution: Do not buy perishable foods when loss from wastage may occur. Plan the 
buying and cooking so that no perishables are left over to spoil. 

5. Buy foods in season. 

6. Do not buy foods at exorbitant prices if such prices are due to any of the following: 

Pood which is in season but a short time, such as venison 
Limited supply 
Pads and fashions 
Choice flavors 

7. Do not pay for advertising; for example, do not spend money for prepared foods 
which by shrewd advertising are made to cost several times as much as the raw foods in bulk. 

8. Do not pay for "excess " refuse ; that is, do not buy foods which contain large amounts 
of more or less useless substances, such as bones, or the skins, seeds, and tough stems and 
leaves of vegetables. 

9. Plan the meals ahead, so as to buy to advantage. 

10. In purchasing, consider both cost and nutriment. 

11. Store dry foods, such as cereals and vegetables, so that they will not spoil. 



178 LESSONS IN COOKERY 

X. Economy in serving: 

1. Do not buy or cook more for a meal than the family will eat, unless planning on 
left-overs. 

2. Do not prepare unpalatable dishes that no one will eat; one of the greatest sources 
of waste is the failure to make what is served attractive and palatable. 

3. Do not burn or otherwise waste foods by careless cooking; note that much meat is 
injured by overcooking. 

4. Serve fewer courses and fewer dishes at a meal. 

5. Do not serve on a plate more food than can be eaten; follow the practice of the "clean 
plate." 

XI. Economy in eating: 

1. Learn to eat all kinds of food. 

2. Do not eat more food than can be properly utilized by the body; eat less and chew 
more. Do not eat between meals. 

3. Where they are relished, eat the skins of fish, meat, baked potatoes, fruits, etc, 

XII. Economy in refuse: 

Use refuse from foods wherever possible; for example: 

1. Throw away less food as garbage. 

2. Keep chickens and let them feed on waste food. 

3. Sell bones to fertilizer concerns. 

4. Convert fat which cannot be used in cooking into soap for rough cleaning at home, 
or sell the fat to soap-makers. See XV, page 179. 

5. Use fruit parings, cores, and pits in making jelly, marmalade, or vinegar. 

6. Use rinds of oranges and of other citrous fruits for various purposes; for example: 

a. In making extracts, use only the oily or colored part of rind. (See recipes, 
page 173.) 

b. In making jelly, use the white part of rind as a source of pectin. 

c. In making marmalade, use part or all of the rind as a source of pectin and 
bulk. 

d. In preparing candied peel, either whole or as "straws" (a candy), as a rule 
use the entire rind — the colored and white portion. 

7. Collect tin foil from yeast, candies, etc., and sell it by the pound. 

XIII. Economy in gas: - 

1. Use a fireless cooker as far as possible. 

2. If the utensil is at hand, use a high-pressure cooker. 

3. Be careful of gas; note that gas is wasted in the following ways: 

a. In burning the gas when it is not in use. 

b. In keeping the flame high after a liquid boils. 

c. In using a large burner for a small utensil. 

d. In not adjusting the burner. (Have the gas-mixer adjusted so that there is 
no loss from unburned gas.) 

e. In not covering the cooking utensil. 

/. In using a large oven, instead of a small one, for baking a small quantity. 
(The large oven should be used with large quantities only; several recipes can 
often be cooked at one time.) 

4. Learn to read the gas, electric, and water meters. By so doing, the housekeeper 
often saves money in paying bills. 



FOOD ECONOMY 179 

XIV. Economy in utensils: 

1. Buy firm utensils that will wear well. 

2. Buy utensils which are (a) time-savers, (b) labor-savers; many utensils, such as 
those that clean easily or promote "short-cuts" in cooking, are both time- and labor-savers. 

XV. Economy in soap for the kitchen and laundry: 

1. Avoid cheap soaps for the following reasons: 

a. Cheap soaps of ten contain excess water. 

b. Cheap soaps are usually the most expensive, as the free alkali which they con- 
tain will destroy fabrics washed with them. 

2. Buy soap in large quantities; expose well to the air, and store in a dry place, such as 
the attic. Soap lasts longer if it is dry, because it does not dissolve so readily. 

3. Since hard water wastes soap to a great extent, soften hard water by use of various 
softening agents. Few persons are able to secure natural soft water. 

4. Make left-over pieces of soap into a solution, and use for dish-washing, etc. 

5. Make soap at home from left-over grease, such as fat skimmed from stock. Is this 
always an economy? 

XVI. Ways of earning money at home: 

1. Pick fruit, etc., on shares. 

2. Produce the following at home, then sell: 

Fresh vegetables, fruits, and flowers, grown in gardens, hot-beds, or window- 
boxes 

Canned foods, jellies, etc. (study home outfits for commercial canning, such as 
those used by canning clubs throughout the country) 

Butter, chickens, and eggs 

Etc. 



PART C. MARKETING TABLES AND GUIDES 

INTRODUCTORY NOTES 

The trained housekeeper soon will begin to consider which foods are cheapest as a 
source of energy and which are cheapest as a source of building material, for example, pro- 
tein, lime, or iron. 

Student is to supply data (prices, etc.) for the various tables and guides. Deal, as 
far as practical, with normal prices; specify whenever war or other abnormal prices are 
quoted. 

Prices of meats and other foods vary according to season, locality, supply and 
demand. 

The photographs of retail cuts of beef, following pages 180, 186, and 190, are taken 
from Bulletin 158 and Circular 206, University of Illinois. 

All meat tables, photographs, and diagrams, including the work taken from the 
University of Illinois publications, deal primarily with Chicago cuts. 

The tables and photographs from Bulletin 158, University of Illinois, deal with the 
cuts from prime steer carcasses — that is, cuts much fatter than the usual cuts. The 
photographs from Circular 206, University of Illinois, are typical of the usual retail cuts 
secured in the majority of local retail shops. 

The photographs reproduced from Bulletin 158, University of Illinois, are designated 
in accordance with the numbering used in the diagram on page 181. 



PROTEIN FOODS 

EXPLANATORY NOTES ON RETAIL CUTS OF BEEF 

1. The T-bone is typical of porterhouse steaks; club steaks, as well as the last regular 
porterhouse steak, are partial exceptions in that the bones in them are not true T-bones. 

Club steaks are generally considered to be the last three steaks from the porterhouse 
cut. They contain very little or no tenderloin. The true club steak is the last cut. Some- 
times the tenderloin is removed from the loin, and then all the porterhouse steaks are classed 
by some as club steaks. 

A short-cut steak has the strip-end (flank-end or tail) of the steak cut off ; it is prepared 
from a club or any other porterhouse steak, and sells at a higher price than either. A 
short-cut steak is often called "short" steak or "short-porterhouse" steak. The strip-end 
of a porterhouse steak is inferior in quality. 

When tenderloin or fillet is removed, steaks from the loin are called "strip steaks." 

2. Prime ribs are sometimes used as steaks; they involve very little waste in serving. 

3. Round steaks: The "inside" or "top of the round," which is the more tender part 
of the steak, can easily be distinguished from the "outside" or "bottom of the round," 
since it is made up of but one large muscle while the latter consists of two muscles. 

180 




Fig. i. — Eleventh and Twelfth Rib Roast 
Rib cut No. i 




Fig. 2. — Ninth and Tenth Rib Roast 
Rib cut No. 2 




Fig. 3. — Seventh and Eighth Rib Roast 
Rib cut No. 3 

(Figs. 1-3 from Bulletin 138, University of Illinois) 




JFia 4*— Sixth Rib Roast 
Rib tut No, 4 




Fm, 5,— Chuck Rib Roast 
Chut-k cut No. 1 



(Figs. 4 and 5 from Bulletin 158, University of Illinois) 




Fig. 6. — Rump Roast 
Cut surface adjoining the loin. A, hip bone 

(From Circular 206, University of Illinois) 




Fig. 7 

(By permission of Teachers College, Columbia University) 




Fig. 8. — Porterhouse Steak 

Showing the typical T-bone 

A f tenderloin muscle; B, strip end 




Fig. 9. — Club Steak 

Last cut nearest the rib. No tenderloin 

(Figs. 8 and 9 from Circular 206, University of Illinois) 




Fig. io. — Sirloin Steak 

One of the first cuts 

A, hip bone; B, backbone; C, tenderloin muscle 




Fig. ii. — Sirloin Steak 

Cut from near the porterhouse 

A, hip bone; B, backbone; C, tenderloin muscle 

(Figs, io and n from Circular 206, University of Illinois) 



FOOD ECONOMY 



181 



4. The skirt steak is the muscular part of the lower section of the diaphragm. 

5. The hanging tenderloin is a piece of lean beef (1 lb. average weight) which comes from 
the upper muscular section of the diaphragm. One end of this "tenderloin" is attached to 
the backbone and lies in front of the kidneys. It is excellent for stews, or, if split, may be 
used as steak. Price per pound? 

RETAIL CUTS OP BEEPi 






Hind Quarter 


Round: 




Rump: 




i. 


Rump 


Round: 


rump and shank off 


a. 


Round steak, first cut 


3-13. 


Round steaks 


14. 


Round steak, last cut 


IS. 


Knuckle soup bone 


16. 


Pot roast 


Hind shank: 


17, 18 


Soup bones 


19. 


Hock soup bone 


Loin: 




i. 


Butt-end sirloin steak 


2. 


Wedge-bone sirloin steak 


3.4. 


Round-bone sirloin steak 


5.6. 


Double-bone sirloin steak 


7. 


Hip-bone sirloin steak 


8. 


Hip-bone porterhouse steak 


9-15. 


Regular porterhouse steak 


16-18. 


Club steaks 


Plank: 




1. 


Plank steak 


2. 


Stew 




Fore Quarter 


Rib: 




1. 


nth and 12 th rib roast 


2. 


9th and ioth rib roast 


3- 


7th and 8th rib roast 


4. 


6th rib roast 


Chuck: 




1. 


5th rib roast 


3-9. 


Chuck steaks 


10-13 


Pot roasts 


14. 


Clod 


15. 


Neck 


Plate: 




1. 


Brisket 


2. 


Navel 


3.4. 


Rib ends 


Fore shank: 


1. 


Stew 


2. 


Knuckle soup bone 


3-6. 


Soup bones 



**e* 



i Taken from Bulletin 158, University of Illinois, by L. D. Hall and A. D. Emmett. 



182 LESSONS IN COOKERY 

RETAIL CUTS OP BEEP: METHOD OP COOKING, PRICE, AKD QUALITY 

Date of prices given: 
Location of market: 



Cuts 

Grouped According to Method 

op Cooking 



Price 
of Cuts 

PER LB. 



Same Cuts Listed in Sequence 
According to: 



Price per lb. 

(Highest value 

placed first) 



Degree op 
Tenderness or 

Quality 

(Most tender cats 

placed first) 



BROILED MEATS (STEAKS) 

Round, 13 steaks 

Rump 

Loin, 18 steaks: 

a. Sirloin, 7 steaks including pin-bone 
steaks 

b. Porterhouse (see Note 1, p. 180), 1 hip- 
bone and 7 regular or prime steaks. 

Club, 3 steaks 

Tenderloin (fillet) 

Rib — prime (see Note 2, p. 180) 

Flank (score crosswise in order to make 

tender), 1 steak only 

Chuck, 9 steaks (first to ninth cut), first 
cut generally used for oven-roasting. . 

Clod (score crosswise) 

Hamburg 



c. 
d. 



SAUTEED MEATS 

Brains 

Kidney 

Liver 

Tripe (breaded) 

Sweetbreads 



FRIED MEATS 



Brains 

Liver 

Tripe 

Sweetbreads . 



FOOD ECONOMY 
RETAIL CUTS OF BEEF— Continued 



m 



Cuts 


Price 
of Cuts 

PER LB. 


Same Cuts Listed in Sequence 
According to: 


Grouped According to Method 
of Cooking 


Price per lb. 

(Highest value 

placed first) 


Degree of 
Tenderness or 

Quality 
(Most tender cuts 

placed first) 


OVEN ROASTS 

Round 








Rump 








Tenderloin (fillet) 








Loin (used more often for steaks than for 
roasts) 








Rib, prime rib roasts: 
a. 1st cut, or 11th and 12th ribs 








b. 2d cut, or 9th and 10th ribs 








c. 3d cut, or 7th and 8th ribs 








d. 4th cut, or 6th rib 








Chuck, 1-rib roast, 5th rib (sometimes 4th 
rib is also used) 








Rib ends (short ribs) 








Clod 








Skirt steak (stuffed and rolled) 
















BOILED MEATS 
Shfuik- 








Round 








Loin (part left after removing tenderloin) . . 








Flank (2d ait) 








Chuck 








Plate (rib ends) 








Brisket 








Clod 








Neck 








Heart 








Sweetbreads 








Tongue 








Kidney 

















184 



LESSONS IN COOKERY 
RETAIL CUTS OP BEEP— Continued 





Prick 
of Cuts 

PER LB. 


Same Cuts Listed in Sequence 
According to: 


Cuts 

Grouped According to Method 

of Cooking 


Prick per l*. 

(Highest value 
placed first) 


Degree of 
Tenderness or 

Quality 
(Most tender cuts 

placed first) 


BRAISED MEATS 
(Pot-roast and oven-braised meats, etc.) 

Round 








Rump 








Flank (2d cut) 








Chuck (shoulder) 








Short ribs 








Brisket 








Clod 








Skirt steak (see Note 4, p. 181) 








Liver ? . . 








Tail 








STEWS AND CASSEROLES 

Round, knuckle 








Rump: 
a, 1st cut 








b. 2d cut 








Flank, 2d cut 








Chuck 








Clod 








Plate 








Brisket 








Neck 








Shin 








Skirt steak 








Kidney 








Tripe: 








br Plain .,.,..,, 








Tongue 

















FOOD ECONOMY 
RETAIL CUTS OF BEEF— Continued 



185 



Cuts 


Price 
of Cuts 

PER LB. 


Same Cuts Listed in Sequence 
According to: 


Grouped According to Method 
of Cooking 


Price per lb. 

(Highest value 

placed first) 


Degree of 
Tenderness or 

Quality 
(Most tender cuts 

placed first) 


SOUP MEATS 
Tail 








Round (knuckle) 








Plate 








Brisket 








Neck 








Fore and hind shank 




• 




CHOPPED-MEAT DISHES 

(Hamburg steak, mince meat, beef loaf, 
beef tea, frankfurters, etc.) 

Neck '. 








Round steak 








Top of sirloin 








Ends trimmed from porterhouse and other 








CORNED MEATS 

Round % 








Rump 
















Plate (navel) 
















Neck 
















PICKLED MEAT 

Tripe 








DRIED MEAT 

Round 








SUET 

Kidney fat 

















186 



LESSONS IN COOKERY 



COST OP LEAN AND OP TOTAL MEAT IN THE VARIOUS RETAIL CUTS 

AT MARKET PRICES* 



Retail Cuts 



Diagram 

Number 
(Pig. on 
Pack 181) 



Retail 

Price 

per LB. 

of Cut, 

Cents 



Cost per 

LB. OF 

Lean Meat 
in Cut, 

Cents 



Cost per 

lb. OF 
Lean and 
Pat Meat 

in Cut, 
Cents 



STEAKS 

Porterhouse, hip-bone 

Porterhouse, regular 

Club steak 

Sirloin, butt-end 

Sirloin, round-bone 

Sirloin, double-bone 

Sirloin, hip-bone . . . . , 

Flank steak 

Round, first cut 

Round, middle cut 

Round, last cut 

Chuck, first cut 

Chuck, last cut 

ROASTS 

Prime ribs, first cut 

Prime ribs, last cut 

Chuck, 5th rib 

Rump . 

BOILING AND STEWING PIECES 

Round pot roast 

Shoulder clod 

Shoulder pot roast 

Rib ends 

Brisket 

Navel 

Flank stew 

Fore shank stew 

Neck 

SOUP BONES 

Round, knuckle 

Hind shank, middle cut , 

Hind shank, hock , 

Fore shank, knuckle , 

Fore shank, middle cut 

Fore shank, end 



8 

10 

18 

1 

3 

5 

7 

1 

2 

6 

14 

2 

9 

1 
4 
1 
1 

16 

14 

11 

3 

1 

2 

2 

1 

15 

2 
18 
19 
2 
4 
6 



25 
25 
20 
20 
20 
20 
20 
16 
15 
15 
15 
12 
12 

20 
16 
15 
12 

10 
10 
10 
8 
8 
7 
7 
7 
6 

5 
5 
5 
5 
5 
5 



38.6 
40.2 
32.1 
25.3 
28.3 
28.7 
32.3 
19.3 
17.0 
17.3 
19.3 
18.3 
15.7 

40.5 
26.1 
22.8 
19.4 

11.6 
12.3 
14.3 
16.2 
15. C 
12.8 
10.9 
8.5 
8.5 

26.3 
7.5 
62.5 
17.2 
12 5 
28.8 



28.9 
27.2 
22 6 
20.6 
21.1 
22.7 
24.2 
16.0 
15.3 
15.6 
16.0 
14.1 
13.1 

22.9 
18.8 
17.3 
12.8 

10.1 
10.5 
11.6 
9.2 
8.7 
7.7 
7.1 
7.0 
7.0 

12.5 
6.3 

26.6 

12.5 
9.4 

20.9 



♦This table and comment are taken from Bulletin 158, University of Illinois. July, 1912, pp. 171-172, bv 
L. D. Hall and A. D. Emmett. 




Fig. 12. — Round Steak 
Typical steak from center of the round: A, "inside"; B, "outside" 




Fig. 13. — Round Steak 

From lower part of round. Inferior to steak shown in Fig. 12 

(Figs. 12 and 13 from Circular 206, University of Illinois) 




Fig. 14. — Flank Steak 

Flank cut No. 2 

(Prom Bulletin 158. University of Illinois) 




Fig. 15. — Chuck Steak 

A, shoulder blade; B, rib and backbone 

(From Circular 206, University of Illinois) 




Fig. 16.— Round Pot Roast 
Round cut No. 16 

(Prom Bulletin 158, University of Illinois) 




Fig. 17. — Shoulder Pot Roast 

A, shoulder blade; B, backbone 

(From Circular 206, University of Illinois) 




Fig. i 8. — Flank Stew 
Flank cut No. i 




Fig. 19. — Chuck Stew 
Chuck cut No. 13 




Fig. 20. — Shank Stew 

Fore shank cut No. 1 

(Figs. 18-20 from Bulletin 158, University of Illinois) 



FOOD ECONOMY 



187 



The following comment applies to the table on page 186: 

"Taking the net cost of the lean meat as a basis of comparison, we learn from these 
data that the most expensive steaks at the prices given are the porterhouse cuts, followed 
by the club, sirloin, flank, round, and chuck steaks. Of the different roasts, the first-cut 
prime ribs are the most costly in terms of lean meat, and the rump roast is the most eco- 
nomical. The various boiling and stewing pieces furnish lean meat more economically at 
market prices than either the roasts or steaks, the rib ends and brisket being the dearer cuts 
of this class, while the neck and shank stews are relatively cheapest. Several of the soup 
bones are very economical sources of lean meat, particularly the middle cuts of both shanks; 
and only one of them is extremely expensive, even on this basis. In general, the wide 
variation between the various cuts in net cost of lean is remarkable, ranging from 7.5 cents 
in one of the soup bones to 40.5 cents in a prime rib roast, and up to 62.5 dents in the hock 
soup bone; the latter, however, being used primarily for its flavoring substance rather than 
for lean meat. . . . It is evident, therefore, that retail prices of beef cuts are determined 
chiefly by considerations other than their food value, such as tenderness, grain, color, 
general appearance, and convenience of cooking." 

COST OF MEAT REQUIRED TO FURNISH ONE POUND OF PROTEIN AND 1,000 
CALORIES FROM WHOLESALE CUTS AT MARKET PRICES* 



Wholesale Cuts 


Retail 
Price 

PER LB., 

Cents 


Boneless 
Meat in 
the Cut, 

Pes Cent 


Cost of 

lb. 

Boneless 

Meat in 

Cut, 

Cents 


Cost of 

lb. 
Protein 
in Cut, 

Cents 


Cost of 

1.000 
Calories 
in Cut, 

Cents 


Pore shank . . . . • 


5 

5 

6 

8 

8 

10 

11 

12 

15 

18 

22 


59.56 
48.84 
84.31 
99.44 
91.23 
95.18 
87.99 
79.85 
90.39 
85.56 
90.23 


8.4 

10.2 

7.1 

8.0 

8.7 

10.5 

12.5 

15.0 

16.6 

21.0 

24.4 


50 

63 

46 

85 

82 

63 

84 

119 

101 

171 

188 


7 


Hind shank. ..,,,, T 


9 


Neck 


5 


Flank 


3 


Plate 


4 


Clod 


10 


Chuck 


9 


Rump 


8 


Round 


15 


Rib 


11 


Loin 


14 







♦Taken from Bulletin 158, University of Illinois, (July, 1912), "Relative Economy, Composition, and Nutritive 
Value of the Various Cuts of Beef," by L. D. Hall and A. D. Emmett. Average prices calculated from the retail 
prices given in table on page 186. 

Noit; 

Observe points a and b in regard to the two preceding tables: 

o. The retail prices quoted in these tables are based on those for prime 
steers, and are at the present time out of date. 

b. Pupil to make two corresponding tables, preserving the same proportions and 
otherwise using the given tables as models. (Secure current retail prices of 
meats in the local market, place them in the second and first columns 
respectively of the two tables, and then calculate data for the remaining 
columns.) 



188 



LESSONS IN COOKERY 




FOOD ECONOMY 



180 




I 
1 



1.8 



1 



*' * 



! 

_3J 



i 



8 



H 
H 

s 



9 



ll I 



CO CO 



190 LESSONS IN COOKERY 

WHOLESALE CUTS OF BEEP AND USES OF THEIR RETAIL CUTS 



Wholesale Cuts 



HIND QUARTER 

1. Shank (hind) 

2. Round 

3. Rump 



General Classes of Retail Cuts and 
Their Uses 



4. Loin. 



5. Flank. 

FORE QUARTER 

6. Ribs 

7. Chuck 

8. Plate 

9. Brisket 

10. Shin or shank (fore) . . . 

11. Neck 



Notes: 

1. The cuts may vary somewhat in different cities and with different firms. 

2. Differentiate between prime and secondary cuts by placing an asterisk at the left 
of the name of each cut that is made up in whole or in part of prime cuts. 

3. The tenderloin is a slightly used muscle which extends under the backbone from 
the hip joint to the last rib. It is thickest near the forward end of the hip bone. 




Fig. 23. — "Heel of the Round'* 

Cut surface adjoining last round steak 

(Prom Circular 206, University of Illinois) 




Fig. 24. — Shoulder Clod 
Chuck cut No. 14 

(From Bulletin 158, University of Illinois) 




Fig. 25. — Plate Boil 
A, rib end; B, breastbone 




Fig. 26. — Plate Boil 

Boned and rolled 

(Figs. 25 and 26 from Circular 206, University of Illinois) 




Fig. 27. — Brisket 
Plate cut No. 1 




Fig. 28. — Navel 
Plate cut No. 2 




Fig. 29. — Rib Ends 

Plate cut No. 4 

(Pigs. 27-29 from Bulletin 158, University of Illinois) 




Fig. 30. — Neck 
Chuck cut No. 15 




Fig. 31. — Hind Shank Soup Bone 
Round cuts Nos. 17, 18, 19 





Fig. 32. — Knuckle Soup Bones 

Fore shank cuts Nos. 2, 3 

(Pigs. 30-32 from Bulletin 138, University of Illinois) 



FOOD ECONOMY 

-Ifin d quarter- — >* Fore quarter- 

T 



191 




List of Cuts 

(To be supplied by the pupil. See diagram of half carcass of veal as hung) 
Hind quarter Fore quarter 



Fig. 33. — Veal on Hoof (wholesale cuts) 




Fig. 34. — Half Carcass of Veal as Hung (wholesale cuts) 



192 



LESSONS IN COOKERY 



RETAIL CUTS OF VEAL: METHOD OF COOKING, PRICE, AND QUALITY 

Date of prices given: 
Location of market: 



Cuts 

Grouped According to Method 

of Cooking 




Same Cuts Listed in Sequence 
According to: 


PER LB. 


Price per lb. 

(Highest value 

placed first) 


Degree of 
Tenderness or 

Quality 
(Most tender cuts 

placed first) 


BROILED MEATS 
Chops 








Steaks or cutlets 








Kidney 








Sweetbreads 








SAUTEED MEATS 

Loin 








Sweetbreads - 








Brains - - - , 








Liver 








FRIED MEATS 

Sweetbreads 








Heart 








Brains 








Leg, shoulder 








Loin 








Heart 








Neck 








Shank and shin 








Breast 








Tongue 








BRAISED MEATS 






, 


Breast 
















Sweetbreads 

















FOOD ECONOMY 
RETAIL CUTS OF VEAL— Continued 



103 



Cuts 

Grouped According to Method 

op Cooking 


Price of Cuts 

PER LB. 


Same Cuts Listed in Sequence 
According to: 


Pr«ce per lb. 

(Highest value 

placed first) 


Degree of 
Tenderness or 

Quality 

(Most tender cuts 

placed first) 


STEWS AND CASSEROLES 

Neck r 








Shin 








Breast 








Shoulder 








SOUP MEATS 

Shank and shin 








Neck 








CHOPPED-MEAT DISHES 

Knuckle (hind shank) 








I/ean meat, tH™™*"!? 5 r 








Neck 








Flank 








Plate 

















Note: 

Veal is obtained from a "beef" animal 6-10 weeks old; it is best at 8 weeks of age. 
"Bob veal," veal under 6 weeks of age, is now known to be not poisonous, but healthful 
food. It is not economical, however, as the percentage of water is very high. 

WHOLESALE CUTS OF VEAL AND USES OF THEIR RETAIL CUTS 



Wholesale Cuts 



General Classes of Retail Cuts and Their Uses 



HIND QUARTER 



1. Leg.. 

2. Loin. 



FORE QUARTER 



3. Ribs 

4. Stew (shoulder, breast, and shank) . 



Notes: 



1. The cuts may vary somewhat in different cities and with different firms. 

2. Differentiate prime from secondary cuts by the use of an asterisk. 



104 



LESSONS IN COOKERY 



$M <} uarter >*-Fore quart* 





List of Cuts 

(To be supplied by the pupil. See diagram of half carcass of mutton at hung) 
Hind quart* Fore quarter 

I 3 

2 4 

5 

6 

Note. The cuts for the lamb are identically the same at for the mutton. 

Fig. 35.— Mutton on Hoof (wholesale cuts) 




Fig. 36.— Half Carcass of Mutton as Hung (wholesale cuts) 



FOOD ECONOMY 



105 



RETAIL CUTS OF MUTTON: METHOD OF COOKING, PRICE, AND QUALITY 

Date of prices given: 
Location of market: 



Cuts 

Grouped According to Method 

of Cooking 



Price op Cuts 
per LB. 



Same Cuts Listed in Sequence 
According to: 



Price per lb. 

(Highest value 

placed first) 



Degree op 
Tenderness 
or Quality 
(Most tender cuts 
placed first) 



BROILED MEATS 

(Chop cuts) 



Leg 

Loin 

Short rack or ribs {10 ribs) . 
Chuck (shoulder) 



SAUTEED MEATS 



Brains. . 
Kidney. 



OVEN ROASTS 

Leg 

Loin 

Short rack or ribs (10 ribs), crown 

roast 

Chuck (shoulder) 

Plate or breast 

Heart (stuff before roasting) 



BOILED MEATS 



Tongue. 
Kidney. 



STEWS AND CASSEROLES 

Chuck (stew) 

Plate or breast (stew) 

Neck (stew) 

Brains (casserole) 

Kidney (stew or casserole) 



196 



LESSONS IN COOKERY 



Note*: 

1. The data in the preceding table apply to lamb as well as to mutton. Lamb is the 
animal from 6 weeks up to almost 1 year of age; it is best at about 8 weeks, with weight 
of 40-45 lb. An animal over 1 year old is called mutton. 

2. In general, how do prices of mutton compare with those of lamb? 

3. The "racks" of lamb or mutton include the fore quarters of the carcass, cut between 
the twelfth and thirteenth ribs, while the short racks are only the ribs. 

4. The roast termed "crown of lamb or mutton" consists of rib (short rack) chops 
brought together on end in such a way as to form a circlet or crown. 

5. By "saddle " of lamb or mutton is meant the combined leg and loin cuts of the carcass. 



WHOLESALE CUTS OF MUTTON AND USES OF THEIR RETAIL CUTS 



Wholesale Cuts 



General Classes or Retail Cuts and Their Uses 



HIND QUARTER 

1. Leg 

2. Loin 

FORE QUARTER 

3. Short-rack or ribs 

4. Plate or breast 

5. Chuck or shoulder 

6. Neck 



Notes: 

1. The cuts may vary somewhat in different cities and with different firms. 

2. Differentiate prime from secondary cuts by placing an asterisk at the left oi 
the name of each cut that is made up in whole or in part of prime cuts. 

3. The cuts of lamb and their uses are identical with those of mutton, as given in. this 
table, except that very young lamb is sold by the quarter. 



FOOD ECONOMY 



197 




List of Cuts 

(To be largely supplied by the pupil. See diagram of half carcass of pork as hung 

i 6. 

2 7 

3 8 

4 9 

5 10 

a. Bacon n 

b. Spare ribs 12. Tenderloin muscle 

Fig. 37. — Pork on Hoof (wholesale cuts) 




Pig. 38. — Half Carcass of Pork as Hung (wholesale cuts) 



108 



LESSONS IN COOKERY 



RETAIL CUTS OF PORK: METHOD OF COOKING, PRICE. AND QUALITY 
Date of prices given: Location of market: 



Cuts 
Grouped According 
to Method of Cooking 



BROILED MEATS 



Loin: 

a. Chops , 

b. Tenderloin 

Boston butt (steaks) . 
Bacon 



Prick 
of Cuts 
per lb. 



Same Cuts Listed in Sequence 
According to: 



Prick pkr lb. 

(Highest value 
placed first) 



Degree of- 
Tenderness or 
Quality 

(Most tender cuts 
placed first) 



Salt pork 

Shoulder or picnic ham (steaks) . 

Ham (short-cut), smoked 

Kidney 

SAUTEED MEATS 

Ham, short-cut 

Brains 

Kidney 

FRIED MEATS 

Hind foot 

Fore foot 

OVEN ROASTS 

Ham, short-cut 

Loin: 

a. Roast 

b. Tenderloin 

Boston butt 

Spare ribs (short ribs) 

Shoulder or picnic ham , 

Neck 

Heart (stuff before roasting) . . . 

BRAISED MEATS 

Neck 

BOILED MEATS 

Hind foot " 

Fore foot 

Neck 

ngue 



FOOD ECONOMY 
RETAIL CUTS OF PORK.— Continued 



199 



Cuts 

Grouped According 

to Method of Cooking 


Price 
of Cuts 
per lb. 


Same Cuts Listed in Sequence 
According to: 


Price per lb. 

(Highest value 
placed first) 


Degree op 

Tenderness or 

Quality 

(Most tender cuts 
placed first) 


STEWS 

Hind foot .• 








Hnck or fore shank 








Fore foot 








Neck 








Kidney , L ...*... 








PICKLED MEATS 

Hind foot 








Back fat 








Boston butt 








Pore foot 








Tongue 








SALTED MEATS 

Boston butt 


- 






Clear plate ("fat salt pork " results) 








HEAD CHEESE 

Head, including jowl 








SMOKED MEATS 

Ham, short-cut 








Back fat 








Belly (bacon results) : 
a. Ribs 
















SAUSAGE 

Trimmings (special, lean, and regular). . . . 








LARD 








Neutral 




. 












Compound 

























200 



LESSONS IN COOKERY 



Notes: 

1. Lards differ according to the kind of fats used, their color, flavor, and grain, and 
the method employed in rendering. 

2. Pork shoulder chops are often called "pork steaks'' or "fresh ham." 

3. Bacon is sold as follows: 

a. Whole bacon 

b. Sliced 

c. "Ends' 1 (used in sautling other foods) 

4. Ham (fresh or smoked) is sold as follows: 

a. Whole ham (used for boiling and broiling) 

b. Sliced (used for frying and broiling) 

c. Sliced, cooked 

d. Ends (used in boiling and saut6ing other foods) 



WHOLESALE CUTS OF PORK AND USES OF THEIR RETAIL CUTS 



Wholesale Cuts 



General Classes of Retail Cuts and Their Uses 



1. Hind foot 

2. Ham (upper hind leg) 

3. Back fat 

4. Loin 

5. Belly 

6. Clear plate 

7. Boston butt 

8. Shoulder or picnic ham (upper fore leg) 

9. Hock 

10. Fore foot 

11. Neck and jowl 



Notes: 

1. The pork carcass is not divided into hind and fore quarters. 

2. The cuts may vary somewhat in different cities and with different firms. 

3. Differentiate prime from secondary cuts by placing an asterisk at the left of the 
name of each cut that is made up in whole or in part of prime cuts. 



FOOD ECONOMY 
PRICES OF THE CHOPS OF FOUR CLASSES OF ANIMALS 

Date of prices given: 



201 



Chops 


Rib 


Loin 


Shoulder 

Chop or 

Steak 


Lamb 


% 


$ 


* 


Mutton 


$ 


$ 


$ 


Veal 


$ 


$ 


$ 


Pork 


$ 


$ 


$ 











Notes: 

1. Is it true that the rib and loin chops of any one animal are about equal in price? 

2. The rib and loin chops of any animal are prime cuts; shoulder chops are secondary 
cuts. 

3. The combined ribs and loin of an animal are sometimes called the large loin, and 
the chops from this are termed large-loin chops. 



EDIBLE PORTION AND WASTE IN CHOPS 

Signify by the terms "much" and "little" the relative quantities of lean, fat, bone, 
etc., in the three kinds of chops. 



Edible Portion and Waste 



Rib 
Chop 



Loin 
Chop 



Shoulder 
Chop 



Tender lean meat, such as: 

"Eye" of rib chops (see Note 2) 

Main section and tenderloin of loin chops. . 
Tough lean meat, such as: 

Overhanging muscle of rib chops (see Note 2) 

Strip, tail, or flank-end of loin chops 

Fat, such as: 

Excess outside fat 

Kidney fat of loin chops 

Bone, such as: 

Rib 

T-bone of loin chop 

Skin and membrane 



14 



202 



LiiSSONS IN COOKERY 



Notes: 

1. Which are the most expensive chops with regard to edible portion? most economical? 

2. The prime ribs of any animal (lamb, mutton, veal, or pork, as well as beef) are char- 
acterized by the size of the "eye" — in other words, the very choice meat; the inferior ribs 
have one or more overhanging muscles (usually tough), and the size of the "eye" is dimin- 
ished. The choicer ribs contain very little overhanging muscle. (See photograph of chops, 
Fig. 7, following page 180.) The first six to eight rib chops are prime, the others secondary. 

3. A rib chop differs from a prime beef rib roast in that the latter includes two or more 
ribs. A shoulder chop differs from a chuck rib roast in that the latter includes two or more 
shoulder chops. 

4. Make diagrams of the following, and label the tender meat, tough meat, fat, etc.: 

a. Prime rib chop and two inferior rib chops; show the varying amounts of over- 
hanging muscle. 

b. Loin chop, porterhouse steak, and sirloin steak. Compare the three. 

c. Shoulder chops (blade and round-bone). 

5. Prenching is often applied to prime rib chops (see cut), usually those of lamb or 
mutton. It is an extravagant but elegant method. Note directions: 

a. Remove inside and outside membranes by pulling from thin end of the chop. 
6. Trim off the meat and fat almost up to the "eye," or kernel of meat, scrape 
the bone very clean, then chop off bone to length desired. 
After broiling Frenched chops, garnish the ends of bones with white paper tips. 
As a rule, it is better to French the chops at home rather than to have it done at the 
market; all scraps of meat and bone removed may be saved in this way. 



INTERNAL ORGANS OF VARIOUS ANIMALS 

Secure many of the data from Hill, Practical Cooking and Serving; Farmer, The Boston 
Cooking-School Cook Book, and other authorities. 

Note the comparative cheapness of most of the cuts. 

Prices vary according to whether the cuts are from beef, veal, mutton, lamb, or pork. 



Internal Organs 



Animals from 
Which Removed 



Price per lb. 
or Piece 



Method 
of Cooking 



Brains 

Heart 

Kidney 

Liver 

Paunch (sold as tripe) 

Pancreas (sold as sweetbreads) 

Thymus gland (sold as sweetbreads) . 
Tongue (fresh or pickled) 



Note: 

See Pattee, Practical Dietetics with Reference to Diet in Disease; Hutchison, Food and 
the Principles of Dietetics, etc., for a study of the food value and digestibility of these cuts. 



POOD ECONOMY 



ARRANGEMENT AND USES OF THE "CORRESPONDING" CUTS OF MEAT 

By " corresponding" cuts are meant those cuts that are approximately in the same 
relative position in the carcass; for example, veal cutlets correspond in general to the steaks 
from the round of beef. It is to be borne in mind also that in the smaller animals one cut 
may include several of those in a larger animal; for instance, leg of veal corresponds to the 
rump, round, and hind shank of beef as regards location in the animal. 

The cuts are much the same in all four of the animals, the tougher cuts being used for 
stews, etc. 



Beef 


Veal 


Cuts 


Uses 


Cuts 


Uses 


















































































Mutton 








or Lam* 


Pork 


Cuts 


Uses 


Cuts 


Uses 



























































































204 



LESSONS IN COOKERY 



SUMMARY OF EXPENSIVE AND CHEAP RETAIL CUTS OF MEAT 

Group the various meat cuts according to the approximate (average) prices stated below 
in the headings. 

Include poultry, game, and cuts of all five classes of animals. 

The date of the record is essential, since prices vary according to the season. 

It is an excellent plan for the housekeeper to keep a price list on hand, revising it every 
few weeks. 

Date of prices given: 



$0.60 OK MORS PER LB. 


$0.40 PER LB. 


$0.35 PER LB. 


$0.30 PER LB. 










$0.25 PER LB. 


$0.20 PER LB. 


$0.15 PER LB. 


$0.10 OR LESS 
PER LB. 











FOOD ECONOMY 

POULTRY: RETAIL PRICE AND SEASONS 

Use X as meaning "in season." 
Date of prices given: 



205 



Poultry 


Price 

PER LB. 


Average 
Weight 


In Season 
All Year 


Jan. 
Feb. 


Mar. 
April 


May 

June 


July 
Aug. 


Sept. 
Oct. 


Nov. 
Dec. 


Chicken: 

a. Spring 




















b. Hen (i yr. 
or over) 




















c. Capon 




















Duck 




















Goose 




















Guinea-hen 




















Pigeon, tame 




















Squab or young 
Dieeon 




















Turkey 









































Notes: 

1. Do not consider seasons with regard to cold-storage poultry, since, as a rule, cold- 
storage products of every type listed in the table can be obtained at all seasons. 

2. Note the chief uses of chicken: 

Spring chicken: Fried and broiled 

Hen: Stewed, casseroled, baked, or roasted 

Capon: Casseroled, baked, or roasted 



GAME: RETAIL PRICE AND SEASONS 

Prepare a marketing table for game; study the game laws, and note that, as a rule, 
sportsmen are not allowed to sell their catch. 

Determine which of the following are commercial products, then enter the names 
(rabbit, etc.) in a table similar to the one foregoing, in the first column considering price 
per pound or piece: 

Ducks (such as canvas- Plover Squab 

back) Quail Squirrel 

Grouse Rabbit Turkey, wild 

Partridge Reedbird Woodcock 

Pheasant Ricebird Etc. 

Pigeon, wild Snipe 



206 



Date of prices given: 



LESSONS IN COOKERY 
CLASSIFICATION OF VERTEBRATE FISH 



Pish 


Puck 


Source 


Methods of Serving 


Digestibility 


REPTILES OR NON- 
SCALY FISH 

Terrapins 










Turtles 




















AMPHIBIANS 

Frogs 


















• ••••• •#»• 


FISH 

Eels 










Fish proper or scaly fish. 





















Notes: 

1. Three classes of vertebrates used as food are as follows - 

Mammals (beef, etc.) 

Birds (chicken, etc.) 

Fish (divided in general into vertebrates and non-vertebrates) 

2. Reptiles are nutritious, but expensive. 

TESTS FOR FRESH AND STALE VERTEBRATE FISH 





Eyes 


Gills 


Flesh 
(Firmness, etc.) 


Odor 


Scales 


Other Tests 


l 

1 
















Eyes 


Gills 


Flesh 
(Firmness, etc.) 


Odor 


Scales 


Other Tests 


'a 

i! 

i{ 

CO g 

B 















FOOD ECONOMY 
FURTHER STUDY OF VERTEBRATE FISH 



207 



Here consider fresh and dried fish, with respect to (a) retail price, (b) seasons when fish 
can be purchased. (X = "in season.") Vary list of fish according to local market. 

Date of prices given: 



Fish 


Price 
Per lb. 


In Season All 
the Year 


Jan. 
Feb. 


March 
April 


May 

June 


July 
Aug. 


Sept. 
Oct. 


Nov. 
Dec. 


FRESH 

Bass, black 
















- 


Caro 


















Cisco 


















Codfish 


















Eulachon 


















Haddock 


















Halibut 


















Herring, sea. ....... 


















Mackerel 


















Perch 


















Pickerel 


















Salmon ........ 


















Shad 


















Smelts 


















Sturgeon 


















Trout, lake 


















White fish 


















DRIED OR SMOKED 

Bownn. ............ 


















Codfish, salt 


















Finnan haddie 


















Herring 


















White fish 





































Notts: 

1. Check the names of all the fresh-water fish listed 

2. To what extent is whale meat used as food in the United States? 



208 



LESSONS IN COOKERY 



STUDY OF NON-VERTEBRATE FISH 

In this table, consider fresh non-vertebrate fish, that is shell-fish or fish with no scales, 
with respect to (a) retail price, (b) seasons when the fish can be purchased. (X = " in season.") 

Date of prices given: 



Fish 


Price 
per lb., doz., 

PIECE, QT. 


In Season 

All the 

Year 


Jan. 
Feb. 


Mar. 
April 


May 

June 


July 
Aug. 


Sept. 
Oct. 


Nov. 
Dec. 


MOLLUSCS 

Clams 


















Mussels 


















Oysters 


















Scallops 


















CRUSTACEANS 

Crabs, soft-shell . . 


















Crabs, hard-shell . . 


















Crawfish 


















Lobsters 


















Prawns 


















Shrimps 





































Notes: 



1. Crustaceans, as a rule, are difficult to digest. Consider the digestibility of mollusks. 

2. Tabulate other data in regard to the above fish, using the following headings: 



Source 


Method op 
Serving 


Food Value 
(Compare with meat as to protein value) 









FOOD ECONOMY 
CLASSIFICATION OF CHEAP AND EXPENSIVE FISH 



209 



Consider vertebrates, fresh and dried, and non-vertebrates. Summarize the two pre- 
ceding tables by grouping the items according to price under the following headings: 

Date of prices given: 



90.40 OR MORE 
PER LB. 


10.35 PER LB. 


90.30 PER LB. 


90.28 PER LB. 




- 






|0.22 PER LB. 


10.16 PER LB. 


90.10 OR LESS 
PER LB. 




* 





210 



LESSONS IN COOKERY 



RETAIL PRICES AHD USES OF MILK, CREAM, AND EGOS 
Date of prices given: 



Product 



Prick 

PER QT. 



Prick 



Uses in Cooking 



MILK 
Whole, not certified 

Whole, certified 

Clabber, or sour 

Skim 

Modified, for infants 

Buttermilk, natural 

Buttermilk, artificial 

Condensed, sweetened — 

Evaporated, unsweetened. 

Dried, or desiccated: 

Ordinary 

Malted 

CREAM 

Single, or restaurant 

Double, or table 

Triple, or whipping 

Certified 

Sour 



EGGS 

Strictly fresh 

Cold-storage 

Sterile 

Cracked 

Dried, or desiccated 
Frozen 



Prick 
per DOZ. 



Prick 
per LB. 



Uses in Cooking 



FOOD ECONOMY 211 

Notes: 

1. Do the prices of the products listed vary at all according to the season? 

2. How true is the old saying, "A pint is a pound the whole world round"? 

3. Cold-storage eggs are satisfactory for use in many recipes. A "fresh" egg does not 
necessarily mean a new-laid egg. 

4. Sterile eggs keep two or three times as long as fertile eggs. 

5. Study the state laws with respect to the required percentage of fat in cream. One 
large city dairy reports 18, 26, and 40 per cent fat in single, double, and triple creams, 
respectively. 

6. Evaporated milk is used either as milk or as cream. It looks like cream, and often 
is called evaporated cream. Is its use as cream economical? 

7. Consider the nutritive value of all the items listed in the table. 

PRESERVATION OF EGGS IN WATER GLASS 

(Most practical method of preserving eggs) 

Ingredients: 

10 qt. pure soft water, boiled and cooled 

1 qt. water-glass solution 

Eggs, fresh, clean, and with strong shells (see Note 2) 

Method: 

1. Dissolve the water glass in the water; it is essential that the mixture be 
well stirred so as to form a thorough solution. 

2. Scald a stone jar and set it in a cellar or other darkened room where the 
temperature is not over 60° F., or 15°-16° C. 

3. Place the eggs in the jar, cover with the water-glass solution, then cover 
the jar tight to avoid evaporation. (If any of the liquid evaporates in the 
weeks following, add a little boiled water.) 

Notes: 

1. Note two forms of water glass, both of which may be secured from a druggist: 
p Solution (thick syrup) 

Powder 

2. Avoid cracked eggs. Do not wash the eggs. "Sterile" eggs keep better in water 
glass than do other eggs. 

3. A 5-gal. jar holds 15 doz. or more eggs. 

4. Observe the following precautions: 

Do not allow direct sunshine to touch the jars. 

Do not stir the water-glass solution after the eggs are added. 

Do not use the water-glass solution more than the one year. 

5. State the average price of eggs during each of the following months: 

January 
April 
July 
October 

6. Water-glass eggs are satisfactory for use in baking and for all other cooking purposes 
except poaching and the cooking of eggs in the shell* 



212 



LESSONS IN COOKERY 



7. Various other methods for preserving eggs have been more or 
check any of the following agents at all efficient in sealing the pores of 
of these is considered so good as water glass: 

Immersion in: 

Brine 

Limewater 
Varnishing or coating with: 

Gelatin 

Paraffin 

Varnish 

Vaseline 
Packing small end down in: 

Bran 

Cork, ground 

Lime 

Oats 

Salt 

Sand 

Sawdust 
Wrapping in paper 



used. Pupil to 
; note that none 



COMPARATIVE COSTS OF VARIOUS BRANDS OF GELATIN 

Date of prices given: 



Brand 

(Unflayoked) 


Vol. of 

PKG. 

(Number 
or tbh) 


Weight 
of 

PKG. 
1 (01.) 


Price 
of 

PEG. 


Price 
per 
oz. 


Yield of 
Jelly per 

PKG. 


Cost per 

OT. OF 

Jelly 


Cox 














Keystone 














Knox 














Minute 














Plymouth Rock 














French or other sheet 
gelatin (consider a 
small piece of this — 
1 oz.) 














"Vegetable gelatin "... . 











































FOOD ECONOMY 



213 



Notes : 

1. Properly speaking, "vegetable gelatin" (agar agar) has no place in the list; gelatin 
is an animal product. 

2. Jello is one of several brands of flavored gelatin. Enter the names of these brands 
in a table similar to the foregoing one, then decide whether or not they are an economical 
purchase; consider sugar content, etc. 

3. Classify the various brands of gelatin as follows: 




4. Which gelatin, or gelatins, are the best with respect to each of the following points? 



Easiest of Manipulation 
in General 


Most Delicate in 
Flavor and Odor 


Most Tender 
(Least Glue-Like) 


Clearest 


• 








Lightest in Color 


Swells Most Readily 
in Cold Water 


Dissolves 
Most Easily 


Curdles Milk 

Most Easily 

(That is, contains the 

most acid) 











214 



Date of prices given: 



LESSONS JN COOKERY 
HARD AHD SOFT CHBBSES 



Cheese 


Price 

PER LB. 


Color 


Flavor 


Miscellaneous Notes 
on Texture, etc 


HABD CHEESES 

American 










Brick 










Cheddar .......* r T 




















Edam . . . . . r 










Rnglish Dairy ...... T . - - 










Gorgonzola. ,,.-,,.*.-.. 










Gouda. .......... t t - - - - 










Leyden. 






- 




Parmesan ,,,,,-.-- 










Pineaoole 










Roauefort. 










Sap Sago 










Stilton 










Swiss ........ 










SOFT CHEESES 

Brie 










CAmpmbert .... 










Cottape . . . . 










Cream, such as Blue 
Label or NeufehAtel 










T.ifnVttirorpr 
























- 







Notes: 



1. The majority of hard cheeses can be grated; most soft cheeses cannot be grated. 

2. Parmesan cheese is sold either in the solid or in the grated form. 





FOOD ECONOMY 
MANUFACTURE OF CHEESES 


215 


Chsbsb 


Kind op Milk 
Used 


Clotting Agent 
Used 


Where and How 
Ripened 


Other Factors 
in the Process 


Brie 










Camembert. ......... 










Cheddar 










Edam 






■ 




Gorgonzola .......... 










Oouda 










Limburger. 




















Roquefort 










Swiss. 































Note: 



Classify cheeses according to the countries where they are produced. 



Prance 


Italy 


England 








Switzerland 


Holland 


United States 


.« 







210 

Date of prices given: 



LESSONS IN COOKERY 
RETAIL PRICES OF NUTS 



Kind 



Almonds, Jordan 

Brazil nuts 

Butternuts 

Chestnuts 

Filberts 

Hickory nuts 

Peanuts, raw 

Peanuts, roasted 

Pecans , 

Walnuts, black 

Walnuts, California. 



Price per lb. 
in the Shell 



Price per lb. 

Shelled and 

Un&alted 



Price per lb. 

Shelled and 

Salted 



Notes: 

1. After supplying data for this table, determine whether or not it is worth while to shell 
nuts in the home; consider (a) money, (b) time. (Study percentage of refuse, etc.) 

2. Name any of the nuts listed which should not be classed as meat substitutes. Explain. 

COMPARATIVE COST OF PROTEIN FOODS 

In normal times the following usually are among the cheapest sources of protein: 

Dried legumes (including peanuts and peanut butter) 

Cheese (American and cottage) 

Fish (dried and salted, or smoked) 
In general, how do the following compare with the foregoing as to cost of protein content? 

Fresh fish Fruits 

Meats and poultry Vegetables (including fresh legumes) " 

Eggs Breakfast cereals 

Milk . Flours and meals 

Nuts Flour pastes (such as macaroni) 

It is true that milk is a cheap food even at 15 cents a quart. Does this mean that 
milk is a cheap source of protein? 
Note: 

In the same way, it would be interesting to group foods (cheap and expensive) with 
respect to cost of (a) 100 calories, (b) mineral matter. See Rose^ Feeding the Family, 
pages 234-238, 426-428. 



FOOD ECONOMY 



217 



CHIEF ENERGY-YIELDING FOODS 
EXPENSIVE AND CHEAP SOLID FATS 

State date of preparation of table, since certain prices vary according to the season. 
State the exact price of each fat. 

Designate as (a) all fats from the animal kingdom; as (b) all from the vegetable kingdom. 
Include the following in the table, as well as other fats: 
Butter: 

Creamery 
Dairy, brick 
Dairy, bulk 

Renovated or "cooking" 
Sterilized 
Butterine (include prices of several grades 
according to the percentage of butter fat 
used in the manufacture) 



Cottolene 

Cottosuet 

Crisco 

Lard, leaf 

Lard, rendered 

Nut margarine 

Snowdrift ^ 

Suet, beef kidney 

Suet, beef, other than kidney 

Tallow or suet, mutton 



Date of retail prices given: 



$0.30 OR MORE 
PER LB. 


$0.25 PER LB. 


$0.20 PER LB. 








$0.18 PER LB. 


$0.15 PER LB. 


$0.10 OR LESS PER LB. 


- 







218 



LESSONS IN COOKERY 



USES AND APPROXIMATE COMPOSITION OF COMMERCIAL SOLID FATS 

Note that certain of these products are compounds of two or more kinds of fat. Con- 
sider the following under "uses" (see the second column): 



Baking (cakes, pastries, etc*) 
Making of sauces and soups 



Frying 

Sautding 

Etc. 



Product 


Chief Uses in 
Cooking 


Percentage and Kinds 
of Animal Pat 


Percentage and Kinds 
of Vegetable Pat 


Butterine .. 








Cottolene 








Cottosuet 








Crisco 








Nut margarine 








Snowdrift 

































BREAKFAST CEREALS 

I. Retail Prices of Breakfast Cereals 

Note that any one cereal varies very little as to food value, but for various reasons, 
such as the following, it often varies greatly in price: 

Different methods of treatment in the factory 
Various methods of advertising 

Date of prices given: 



Corn Products 



Price per lb. 



Oats Products 



Price per lb. 



Corn meal. . . . 
Corn flakes. . . 
Hominy grits. 
Pearl hominy 



Rolled oats 

Oatmeal, coarse , 
Oatmeal, fine . . . 
Scotch oats 



FOOD ECONOMY 



219 



Wheat Products 


Price per lb. 


Rice Products 


Price per lb. 


Shredded wheat biscuits 




Rice, polished 




Pettijohn's breakfast food .... 




Rice, coated (brown) 




Cream of wheat 




Broken rice 




Wheat flakes 




Puffed rice 




Cracked wheat 




Rice flakes 












Puffed wheat 


Mixed Products 


Price per lb. 








Wheat kernels, as sold for 
seed 


Malt breakfast food 








Grape-nuts 













II. Prices of Breakfast Cereals by the Box and in Bulk 

Date of retail prices given: 



Cereal 


Weight of Box 


Price per lb. 
by the Box 


Price per lb. 
in Bulk 


Corn meal 








Rolled oats 








Hominy 








Oatmeal 








Rice 

















Note 



Advantages of Buying Cereals by the Box 



Disadvantages of Buying breals by the Box 



220 



LESSONS IN COOKERY 
III. Commercial Breakfast Cereals 



The three I oUowing types of cereals are named with regard to whether or sot the 
product has been cooked in the factory. Make additions to the acco mp anying lists. 

Date of retail prices given: 



Raw 



Pncs 



Sm^CoooD 

(RcQuiring some 

cookmc) 



Pncs 



Tbokoocblt Cooksd 
(RcQwrmsj no 



Pmci 



WHOLE GSADf 

Wheat 



FINELY GROUND 

Farina 

Cream of wheat. . 
Corn meal 



COARSELY GROUND 

Cracked wheat 

Hominy grits 

Oatmeal 



ELAKED CEREALS 

Rolled oats 



Rolled wheat (such 
t as Pettijohn's) 



.Flaked rice. 



Corn flakes.. 
Wheat flakes. 



Puffed rice. 



Puffed wheat. 
Grape-nuts. . . 



Shredded wheat 
biscuits 



Triscuit. 



Note: 

Which of the three groups, raw, semi-cooked, and cooked, is on the whole the most 
economical purchase? Consider time, labor, cost of fuel (discuss fireless cooker), etc. 



FLOURS COMMONLY MANUFACTURED FROM WHEAT 

Pupil to state the composition of each flour listed in the table according to the presence 
or absence of the three following items (the use of plus and minus signs is suggested): 

Bran ) 

Germ f Chief parts of a wheat kernel 

Endosperm ) 

The endosperm is composed mainly of starch, glutenin, and gliadin. Note that gluten 
results when the last two are mixed with water. 



FOOD ECONOMY 



221 



Flour 


Bran 
(Several coats) 


Germ 


Starch prom 
Endosperm 


Gluten from 
Endosperm 


ClrahafP .... 










Whole-wheat . 










Patent 
(bread) . . . 






• 




Pastry. 










Gluten 










Bran 





















Notes: 

1 . Locate the three chief parts of a wheat kernel in the following diagram: 

a. Bran 

b. Germ 

c. Endosperm 

References: Sherman, Food Products, pages 270-273; U. S. Dept. Agri., Farmers* 
Bulletin j8g t page 9; Hutchison, Food and the Principles of Dietetics, chapter xi. 

2. The following "subtraction scheme" for the study of wheat flours is of value. (In 
what respects does the actual manufacture of flours differ from this scheme?) Mention 
the name of a flour in answer to each of the following questions? 




Question 



Answer 



a. What flour is made by grinding the whole kernel, including the germ 
and all the layers of bran? 



b. What flour is derived from (a) by deducting the coarsest layers of bran? 

c. What flour is derived from (b) by deducting the germ and other layers 
of bran? 



d. What flour is derived (theoretically) from (c) by deducting most of the 
gluten? 



e. What flour is derived from (c) by deducting much of the starch? . 

/. What is derived from (a) by deducting the germ and all the 
starch and gluten? 



222 



LESSONS IN COOKERY 



RETAIL PRICES OF FLOURS, FLOUR PASTES, AND STARCHY POWDERS 

Note that the majority of the products listed are derived from cereals. 
Date of prices given: 



* 


Price pkr Sack 

OK PKG. 


Prick pkr lb. 

bythkSack 

or pkc 


Prick pkr lb. 
in Bulk 


FLOUR 

Bran 








Bread flour: 
1. Pillsbury 








2. Ceresota.' 








3 








Buckwheat flour 








Corn meal 








Graham flour 








Pastry flour: 








2 
















Potato flour 








Rice flour 








Rye flour 








Whole-wheat flour 










* 










BY PKG. 


IN BULK 


Macaroni 








Noodles 








Spaghetti 








Vermicelli 
















POWDER, USED FOR THICKENING 
SAUCES, ETC. 




Price per lb. 


Price per lb. 


Arrowroot 








Cornstarch ....,.,,.. , ,..,...,- , t , T t 

















FOOD ECONOMY 
STUDY OF SUGARS AND SIRUPS 



223 



Date of- retail prices given: 





Retail Price 

PER LB. 


Remarks on Source, 
Manufacture, etc. 


SUGARS 

Brown, dark 






Brown, medium 






Coffee A, or light brown 






Confectioners' XXXX 






Granulated 








* 










Loaf: 
Domino 






Cube 






Maple 






Powdered 
























COMMERCIAL SIRUPS 

Honey, strained 






Corn sirup 






Molasses, best grade 


.- 










Maple sirup, pure 




































i 





224 



LESSONS IN COOKERY 



Notes: 

1. At one time commercial glucose was the cheapest fuel food known. Is this true 
today? Corn sirup is composed largely of glucose. Glucose is less sweet than granulated 
sugar. 

2. Prepare homemade sirups of about the same consistency as maple sirup, then com- 
pare the resultant products with commercial sirups. Make the white- and brown-sugar 
sirups by boiling sugar and water together; flavor the white sirup with a little caramel, if 
desired. 



Sirup 



Cost 
per PT. 



White-sugar sirup 

Brown-sugar sirup. 

Caramel sirup (caramelize white sugar, then 
add boiling water) 



Flavor 



SEASONAL BUYING OF VEGETABLES 

Enter specific vegetables in the columns according to the seasons when the vegetables 
are best and can be most easily purchased; do not consider the big-city market, as there 
almost every vegetable is in season all the year around. 



In Season in 
Spring 


In Season in 
Summer 


In Season in 
Pall ^ 


In Season in 
Winter 


In Season All 
the Year Around 


- 








• 



FOOD ECONOMY 

MISCELLANEOUS FOODS 
COMPARATIVE PRICES OF BAKING POWDERS 
Date of retail prices given: 



235 




Notes: 

1. Enter in the three columns of approximate prices the names of various brands of 
baking powders, such as the following: 

Calumet Price Rumford 

Durkasco K. C. Ryzon 

Horsford Royal Unrivaled 

Secure additional information regarding brands by a trip to the local market. 

2. Of the tartrate, phosphate, and alum powders, which in general are cheapest? 
medium priced? most expensive? (Note the following table.) 

BAKING POWDERS NAMED ACCORDING TO ACID CONSTITUENT 



Cream-of-Tartar 

or Tartaric-Acid 

Powders 


Phosphate Powders 


Alum Powders 


"Mixed" Powders 
(Alum and phosphate, etc.) 








- 



Notes: 

1. Enter in the four columns the names of the various brands of baking powders con- 
sidered in the preceding exercise. 

2. A baking powder is composed of a mixture of the three following materials: 

Baking soda (alkaline reaction) 

A substance of acid reaction, such as one of the following: 

Cream of tartar Phosphate of lime 

Tartaric acid Alum 

A filler, or drying agent, such as cornstarch 



226 



LESSONS IN COOKERY 
A STUDY OP TEAS 



Prepare cups of the various teas so as to be able to discuss flavor and color. Test the 
age of the leaves by unrolling them after steeping; note that the smallest leaves and the first 
picking produce the finest quality of tea. 

Date of retail prices given: 



Grade 



Price 
per LB. 



Color, Flavor, etc. 



BLACK TEAS 



Flowery orange pekoe (choicest, composed of leaf buds at 
the tip of the twig and of a few blossoms) 



Orange pekoe (composed of the leaves nearest the buds, 
that is, the latest leaves to open) 



Pekoe (the leaves next in size) 

Souchong (leaves a little larger than pekoe) 

Congou 

Bohea (strong because made of the larger leaves) . 



Formosa oolong (a tea with the flavor of a green tea but 
the appearance of a black) 



English Breakfast (a certain blend of black teas) . 



GREEN TEAS 

Uncolored (or basket-fired) Japan. . . 



Green (or pan-fired) Japan. 

Gunpowder (Chinese) , 

Young hyson (Chinese) 



Notes: 

1. The first four black teas are named in sequence according to the age and flavor of 
the leaf. 

2. There are several grades each of gunpowder and young hyson teas, priced according 
to the size of the leaves used. In the manufacture of any grade of gunpowder tea, the 
leaves are rolled tight, the finest grade, pinhead, being made by rolling the smallest leaves. 



FOOD ECONOMY 



227 



3. Group black and green teas according to the following headings: 
Date of prices given: 



$1 .00 OR MORE PER LB. 


$0.75 PER LB. 


$0.60 PER LB. 









4. One tea firm makes the following statements concerning tea: "There are about 
two hundred varieties of teas, and perhaps ten times as many flavors. Tea ranges in value 
from a few cents per pound for stems up to $10.00 or more for the very finest leaf." 

_ 5. Brooke Bond, Lipton, Tetley, and other brands of tea are found on the market; 
pupil to specify these other brands. Do not confuse the terms "brands" and "grades" 
(Pekoe, etc.) as applied to teas. What is meant by "blends" of teas? 

6. Pupil to group according to nationality all the teas listed in the table: 

Chinese Indian (strongest of all teas in flavor) 

Japanese 

7. To what extent are teas grown in the United States? 



A STUDY OF DRY SEASONINGS 



Seasoning 



Price per \i lb. 



Uses in Cooking 



Part of Plant Used 

(Such as seed, flower bud, 

flower, leaf, stem, root, 

or bark) 



Country Where Grown 



Notes: 

1. Pupil to prepare a table, using the above as headings, entering the following in the 
left-hand column, and supplying data for the remaining columns: 



Allspice 


Chives (dried) 


Mace 


Parsley 


Aniseed 


Cinnamon 


Marjoram, sweet 


Pepper, black or white 


Basil, sweet 


Cloves 


Mint 


Pepper, cayenne 


Bay leaves 


Coriander seeds 


Mixed baking-spice 


Peppercorns 


Capers 


Cumin seeds 


Mixed pickling-spice 


Peppers, mild or hot 


Caraway seeds 


Curry 


Mixed poultry-seasoning 


(dried) 


Cardamom 


Dill 


Mushrooms (dried) 


Poppy seeds 


Cassia buds 


Fennel seeds 


Mustard 


Sage 


Celery leaves 


Flour, browned 


Mustard seeds 


Salt 


Celery salt 


Garlic 


Nasturtium seeds 


Shallot 


Celery seeds 


Ginger 


Nutmeg 


Savory, summer 


Chervil 


Ginger root 


Onions (dried) 


Tarragon leaves 


Chilies (Mexican, etc.) 


Horseradish 


Onion salt 


Thyme 


Chili powder 


Leeks (dried) 


Paprika 


Turmeric 



2. Pupil to signify whether the items are whole or ground, and whether they are herbs, 
condiments, or spices. 

3. Pupil to prepare an exhibit thus: Mount the unground products on cardboard 
and place the ground ones in small bottles. 



228 LESSONS IN COOKERY 

WHOLESALE AND RETAIL PRICES OF VARIOUS HOUSEHOLD SUPPLIES 

Date of prices given: 



Article 


Retail 
Price 


Wholesale 
Price 


Article 


Retail 
Price 


Wholesale 
Price 


Almonds 






Face soap 






Apples, fresh 






Washing soap 






Bananas 






Scouring soap 






Baking powder 






Soap powder 






Beans, navy, dried . 






Smoked meats: 
Bacon 






Butter 








Cheese, American . . 


* 




Ham 






Chocolate 












Coffee 






Fresh meats: 

Rack or two fore 
quarters of lamb . 






Cocoa 
















Crackers, soda 


Rack or two fore 
quarters of mutton 

Fore quarter of beef . 




' 


Crisco 








Ears 










Flour, bread 






Fore quarter of veal . 






Lard 






Ribs of beef 






Maple sirup 






Loin of pork 






Milk, condensed. . . . 












Molasses 












Olive oil 












Oranges and lemons 
Prunes 






















Sugar, granulated . . 












Tea 












Matches 

























FOOD ECONOMY 229 

Notes: 

1. Foods are bought retail by the lb., oz., etc.; foods are bought wholesale by the box, 
bbl., sack, tub, bunch, whole ham or bacon, whole cheese, etc. 

2. Supply data as follows: 

Price per lb. of bread flour bought by single lb. 
Price per lb. of bread flour bought by 5-10 lb. sack 
Price per lb. of bread flour bought by 24# lb. sack 
Price per lb. of bread flour bought by bbl., 196 lb. 
Supply the same kind of data for corn meal — the price per lb. bought by the lb., pkg., 
and sack. 

3. Note the great saving in buying the following wholesale: 

Flavoring extracts 
Spices 
Canned goods: 

Fish ■ • ' 

Meats 

Fruits 

Vegetables 

Soups 

Etc. 

4. Note the possible use of the following in buying wholesale: 

City commission merchant 
Farmer or firm outside of city; see atse of: 
Parcel post 



Freight 



PART D. ADULTERATION OF FOODS 

EXPERIMENTS WITH BUTTER 
Experiment A 

(To test for the purity of butter by the spoon test) 

Results produced by heating (a) butter, (b) process butter, and (c)-butterine in separate 
spoons are as follows: 



Fat 


Amount of Froth 
Produced 


Amount of Noise 
Produced 


Genuine butter 


Much froth 


Little noise 


Renovated, or process 




butter 


A small amount of froth 


A little more noise than with 




genuine butter 


Oleomargarine, or 






butterine 


No froth 


Much noise, due to bubbling; 
the fat sputters and crackles 










like a mixture of water and 






grease 



PupiVs application of the preceding statements: 

Test the purity of various samples of fat. Heat in a teaspoon or tablespoon a small 
bit of each fat to be tested; stir briskly with a wooden splinter. 

Record in the following table the results produced by heating various fats; make obser- 
vations as to the amounts of froth and noise produced. 



Fat 



Sample I . . 
Sample II. . 
Sample III. 



Observation 



Inference 



230 



FOOD ECONOMY 



231 



Experiment B 

(To differentiate between butter and butterine by means of the odor of the fatty acids) 



Process 



Observation and Conclusion 



1. To one tt. add. % t. butter. To another 
tt. add yi t. butterine, or oleomargarine. 
Heat both tt. until fat melts. Cool 



To each of the tt. add about K" of glycerol- 
soda solution.* Plug the tt. with cotton. 
Heat very gently until frothing ceases. 
Then heat 2-3 min., until whole mass be- 
comes clear. Cool 



3. To each tt. add 2 1. warm water, and shake 
to dissolve the soap formed in step 2. 
Cautiously add dilute sulphuric acid. 
Note odor of fatty acids 



♦Procure from the instructor the glycerol-soda solution. This is made by dissolving 10 grams of pure sodium 
hydroxide in 10 cc. of water and then adding this to 180 cc. of pure concentrated glycerol (glycerine). 

Notes: 

1. A chief reason for our enjoyment of butter is that it has such a delicious fragrance. 
Butterine is made from good wholesome lats, but it lacks the particular fat that gives 
butter its special fragrance. The best way to test butter is to smell it. 

2. Define volatile substances, soaps, fatty acids. 

Experiment C 

(To test for the purity of butter by the Water house test) 
The Waterhouse test is as follows: 

a. Heat nearly to boiling a tt. half full of sweet milk, skimmed or whole. 

b. Add 1 1. of the fat to be tested and stir with a splint of wood until the fat melts. 

c. Insert tt. in a dish of ice-water and continue stirring until the fat solidifies. 

The results produced by testing (a) butter, (b) process butter, and (c) butterine by the 
Waterhouse test are as follows: 



Fat 


Result of Waterhouse Test 


Genuine butter 


Fat cannot be collected in a lump; fat is granulated, that 
is, scattered in small particles throughout the milk. 

Pat tends to collect as a film on the surface of the milk 
when the stirring is stopped. It does not clot or gather 
like oleomargarine, but usually adheres to the wooden 
splint. 

Pat can be collected in a lump. 


Renovated or process butter — 
Oleomargarine or butterine 



232 



LESSONS IN COOKERY 



Pupil 9 s application of the preceding statements: 

Test the purity of various samples of fat by means of the Waterhouse test; record 
results in the following table: 



Pat 



Observation 



Inference 



Sample I... 
Sample II.. 
Sample III. 



THREE HOUSEHOLD TESTS FOR FRESHNESS OF EGGS 

Record results in the following tables after submitting eggs to the various tests. 
7. Candling test: 

Working in a darkened room, hold an egg between the eye and a candle or other light; 
if desired, look at the egg through a tube. 

Results of experiment: 



Fresh Egg 


Stale Egg 


Spoiled Egg 









NoU: 

Absence of an air cell or space at the larger end of the egg shows that the egg is not 
perfectly fresh; exceptions are eggs which have been packed with the large end up. 

//. Odor, taste, and general appearance: 

Note odor and taste when opening eggs. Eggs which have been packed for a long 
time often adhere to the shell on one side and have a musty odor. A tendency on the part 
of the yolk and white of egg to run together is the result of one of the following: 

Stateness of egg 

Improper feeding of the hen 



FOOD ECONOMY 



233 



///. Salt-solution test: 

Dissolve 2 oz. salt in 1 pt. soft water, then place the egg in the solution. The shell of the 
egg is porous and allows evaporation; the older the egg, the less dense or the lighter it is 
because of this evaporation. 

Results of experiment: 



Fresh Egg 


Egg Several Days Old 


Very Stale Egg 






- 



Note: 

Although the salt-solution test is used to a considerable extent, yet it has lost significance 
of late because of the extensive use of cold-storage eggs; pupil to explain. 

Experiment: To Study the Effect of Formalin on Milk 



Process 



Observation and Conclusion 



1. Label the following, and set aside at room 
temperature: 

a. 1 pt. fresh milk containing no forma 
lin 



b, 1 pt. fresh milk mixed well with a little 
formalin (40 per cent formaldehyde) 

Stopper each bottle with sterilized cotton. 

2. At the end of three days note the condition of 
both bottles of milk as regards the following: 

Odor 



Coagulation. 
Acidity 



Use either of two tests for acid: 

Litmus-paper test 

PhenolphtHalein test. (Secure titrating 

apparatus from chemical laboratory.) 



Notes: 

1. If preferred, test the samples of milk at the end of the first, second, third, etc., days. 

2. Test tubes may be substituted for bottles; fill each % full of milk, and stopper with 
cotton. 



234 



LESSONS IN COOKERY 



FOOD ADULTERANTS, SUBSTITUTES, PRESERVATIVES, BLEACHES, AND DYES 
/. Adulterants: 



Chicory 


Ground nut shells 


Water 


Cottonseed and peanut oil 


Glucose 


Gelatin 


Beef fat 


Saccharin 


Cornstarch 


Talc 


//. Substitutes: 




Oleomargarine 


Yeast extract 


Saccharin 


Acetic acid 


Lard compounds 


Citric acid 


Chicory 


Cottonseed oil 


Glucose 


Etc. 


///. Preservatives (antiseptic in action): 




Salicylic acid and the salicylates 


Saltpeter 


Boric acid 


Cane sugar 


Benzoate of soda and benzoic acid 


Wood smoke 


Sodium chlorid (salt) 


Vinegar 


Formaldehyde or formalin 


Alcohol, ethyl (or grain) 


Sulphites and sulphur dioxide 


Etc. 


IV. Bleaches: 




Alum 




Indigo 




Sulphur dioxide 




Etc. 





V. Dyes: 

Chemicals are sometimes placed in foods to color them; for example, mineral dyes, 
such as copper sulphate; coal-tar dyes, such as aniline; vegetable and animal dyes. Be 
sure to inspect the label, as the manufacturer is required to designate the kind of dyes used 
unless they are animal or vegetable dyes; in that case no official designation is required on 
the label. 

The following-named foods illustrate the possible use of dyes: 



Cheap, highly colored candies 

Very yellow lemon extract (or other 

extracts) 
Green and other sugar sands used on 

cakes 
Tomato catsup, highly colored 
Phosphates, such as cherry 
Various bright fruit jellies 
Ice-cream cones colored yellow, in 

imitation of eggs 



Grape juice 

Orangeade 

Chocolate and other icings 

Green crfcme de menthe 

Cherries 

Maraschino cherries 

Strawberry, and other ice creams 

Butter 

" Food colors," in paste or other form 



FOOD ECONOMY 



235 



Pupil to supply data for the following table, stating the names of any adulterants, 
substitutes, preservatives, and bleaches often used in connection with each of the foods 
listed: 



Food 


Adulterant 


Substitute 


Preservative 


Bleach 


Baking powder 










Butter 










Catsup 










Candy 










Cocoa 










Coffee 










Condiments and 
spices 










Flour 










Fruits, canned. . . . 










Jellies and jams. . . 










Lard 










Meat, canned 










Meat, fresh 










Milk 










Mincemeat 










Olive oil 










Pickles 










Sausage 










Sugar 










Honey 










Maple sirup 










Molasses 










Tea 










Vegetables, canned 










Vinegar 





















236 



LESSONS IN COOKERY 



Note: 

1. Many of the preservatives and other agents listed (on page 234) are unlawful in 
nearly all of the states in accordance with the Pure Food and Drug Act of June 30, 1906. 

2. Study both the federal and the state pure food laws in the United States. 



PRESERVATION OF VARIOUS FOODS: A SUMMARY 

List two to six methods of preservation used with each of the following groups of foods: 

Legal Methods 



Eggs 



Meats and Fish 



Fruits 



Vegetables 



Milk 



Illegal Methods 



Eggs 



Meats and Fish 



Fruits 



Vegetables 



Milk 



PART E. BUSINESS METHODS FOR THE HOUSEHOLD 



BUDGETS 



Pupil to supply data for the following budget table: 





Expenditure 




$1,000 

Income 


$1,500 

Income 


$2,500 
Income 


Rent (including heat and 
light) 








Food 








Clothing 








Mother 








Father 








Girl 16 








Boy 12 








Girl 9 


- 






Wages to helpers 








Church 








Amusements 








Dentist and doctor 








Incidentals 

















Note: 



The smaller the income, the greater the proportion which must be allowed for food. 



BUDGET PROBLEMS 

1. You are going to college in the near future. State to what college you are going 
and plan your clothes accordingly. Make a budget of clothes required and their cost. 

2. You are engaged to a young doctor. At the present time he is clearing from $150 
to $200 a month. What do you estimate as the least you will require to furnish a 
four-room house or flat? State which you are furnishing. 

237 



LESSONS IN COOKERY 



3. Buy your linens. You may spend from $50 to $75. You should watch sales and 
get the best qualities possible for the money. 

4. Your parents promise you a set of solid silver for a wedding gift. They allow you 
to choose your own pattern. Itemize the articles chosen and prices. Do not exceed $125. 

5. Plan your underwear. You have $50 to spend. The rest of your clothes must 
come within $250. Spend this money to the best advantage. Be sure to choose the clothes 
you will most need, and get the best quality possible under the circumstances. 

6. Furnish a small four-room flat for a workingman on $250. Omit pictures, as these 
can be bought slowly on savings. 

7. You are living in a small town. Your husband is a mining engineer. The mine 
in which he is working has been closed, but he is retained as consulting engineer at $95 a 
month. Your house rent is $25. You are renting a room at $10 a month. Plan your 
expenditures for one month in summer. 

The mine reopens. Your husband's salary is again $200. Plan expenditures, remem- 
bering that coal must be provided for and that you are in a cold climate. However, 
through the superintendent of the mine you are able to secure coal at $6.00 a ton, and six 
tons will be sufficient for the year's supply. Make out your budget of expenditures. 

8. A man has a salary of $1 ,200. Only H of this income may be spent for clothes. Use 
$80 of this for the children, John, aged twelve, Mary, aged nine, and the baby. Estimate 
the clothing for each member of the family, the cost to come within the amount stated. 

ANNUAL BUDGET OF HOUSEHOLD EXPENDITURES 

Estimate a family's yearly expenses; state the occupation of the father and the general 
condition of the family. . 

Date: 



Item 



Expendi- 
ture 



Carfare 

Clothing 

Doctor, dentist, etc 

Education 

Food 

Gifts, church, and charity 

Incidentals 

Laundry 

Recreation 

Rent (including heat and light) . 
Savings and insurance 

Total 



FOOD ECONOMY 



239 



BUDGET OF FOOD EXPENDITURE FOR ONE MONTH 

Estimate a family's monthly food expenses; state the occupation of the father and the 
general condition of the family. 
Date: 



Item 


Expendi- 
ture 


Item 


Expendi- 
ture 


Butter 


$ 


Brought forward: 

Beans - 


$ 


Cheese 






E&rpS 




Cereals 




•^BB 

Flour 




Chocolate and cocoa. 








Coffee and tea. 




Fruit 


Condiments 










Meat and fish 


Gelatin 










Milk and cream 


Macaroni, spaghetti, etc 










Potatoes 






Vegetables 




.TiCKlcS, Olives, ctC 

Rice 




Sugar 




Sirup 








Total 




















ESTIMATE OF KITCHEN FURNISHINGS 

Pupil to vary the following list according to judgment, then secure prices: 



Bean pot 

Brush, scrubbing 

Brush, vegetable 

Bowls, large (3) 

Bowls, small (10) 

Can opener 

Colander 

Corkscrew 

Cups, tin measuring (2) . 

Double boiler 

Egg-beater, Dover 

Egg-beater, wire 

Forks, kitchen (4) 

Grater 

Knives, paring (4) 

Lemon squeezer (glass) . . . 

Masher, wire potato 

Molds, small (6) ... 

Pans, cake (3) 



Carried forward 

Pan, dish 

Pans, loaf (3)...... 

Pans, muffin 

Pans, sauce (3) 

Pastry board 

Plates, pie (4) 

Roasting pan 

Rolling pin 

Sieve, flour . . . . 

Spatulas (3) 

Spoons, table (6) . . . 

Spoons, tea (6) 

Spoons, wooden (2) . 

Strainer, fine 

Strainer, coarse 

Teakettle 

Teapot 



Total. 



240 



LESSONS IN COOKERY 



FEEDING A FAMILY OF SIX 

Supply data for a day's rations at a cost of $1.80-12.40, that is, at $0.30-40.40 per day 
per person. 

Menus 



Breakfast 


Luncheon 


Dinner 






• 



Ingredients used in the three menus (each recipe to be sufficient for six persons) 
are to be named in the following table: 



Date of prices given: 






Materials 


Quantity 


Cost 


Flour 


















Totals 













FOOD ECONOMY 



241 



1 

S5 



.5? 



El 

-a 



1 
III] 



•2* 

ill 
III 



Pi 



1 



••S 9 

g a 



to 



i! 

II 



► § 1 

2 "3 

1 

o 
A 

fa 



o 

U 



£ 

e 

o 
U 



I 

13 



S3 

If 

*1 



i 



1 



a a 



s 



qj to 



1 



If* 



*j .5 ^ t* 

■g w u o 

*lf j 

i 



I 



I 



a 

& if 

fife 
g.d£ 

Hi 

(B "13 ^ 

a? -- rt 

B * i- 

S g 8 
Ops 

a 



« 



i 



S3 Si i 

fil 

2 S3 



3 | 



■a as 

I* ! 

£ -2 £ 






•s 



CO 



1 I 

ffg 
II* 

8 & 



CO to 

8 



i J 1 

in 



j o a 



r 
i 



m 



3* 



242 



LESSONS IN COOKERY 



FEEDING A FAMILY OF SIX 

Supply data for a day's rations, at a cost of $2.40-13.00, that is, at $0.40-10.50 per 
day per person. 

Menus 




Ingredients used in the three menus (each recipe to be sufficient for six persons) are 
to be named in the following table : 

Date of prices given: 



Materials 


Quantity 


Cost 


Flour 


















Totals 













FOOD ECONOMY 
KEEPING A CASHBOOK AND LEDGER 



243 



About the simplest form for keeping household accounts is to enter all receipts and 
expenditures of cash in a two-column cash book and takethe balance each week, then 
transfer each item to its proper place in the ledger, where it will be easy to sum it up and 
know how much has been spent for each kind of household expense. The following is a 
specimen cashbook sheet: 



191 



Jan. 



Cash on hand 

Laundry 

Meats 

Carfares 

Coal 

Salary 

Flour 

Cleaning 

Fruit 

Church 

Balance on hand 



Received 



$20.00 



50.00 



$70.00 
30.35 

$39.65 



Paid 



$ 2.00 

7.60 

0.50 

12.00 

4.75 
1.50 
1.50 
0.50 

$30.35 



Note: 

It is well to do all ruling and write all balances, both figures and words, in red ink. 
Class exercise: 

On page 244 write the following items in the manner indicated above. 

March 1. Mrs. Perkins received $125.00 for expenses for the month. She also had a 
balance of $6.00 from last month, 



March 


Paid Cash 


March 


Paid Cash 


8 


Groceries for week, $6 . 20 


22 


Milk for week, $0.90 


8 


Meats for week, $2.40 


22 


Meat for week, $2 . 10 


8 


Milk for week, $1.32 


22 


Groceries for week, $6.50 


8 


Clothing for members of family, 


22 


Wages to helpers, $3.00 




$22.50 


29 


Meat for week, $2.50 


8 


Wages to helpers, $3.00 


29 


Groceries for week, $5.00 


9 


Telephone bill for month, $1 . 50 


29 


Milk for week, $0.90 


15 


Meat bill for week, $1 .50 


29 


Laundry bill for one month, $1 .50 


15 


Groceries for week, $8.00 


29 


Spring water, $1 .00 


15 


Milk for week, $0.90 


29 


Ice, $2.40 


17 


Wages to helpers, $3.00 


29 


Wages to helpers, $3.00 


19 


Church for month, $5.00 







Note: 

Later post from cashbook to ledger on opposite page; that is, enter each amount of 
money spent under its proper heading. 



244 



LESSONS IN COOKERY 
CASHBOOK, 



191 



Mar.l 



Rbcbivsd 



Paid 



Date 



1 
2 
3 

4 
5 
6 
7 
8 

10 
11 
12 
13 
14 
15 
16 
17 
18 
19 
20 
21 
22 
23 
24 
25 
26 
27 
28 
20 
30 
31 



FOOD ECONOMY 
LEDGER 



245 



Totals 






S M 



2 



si 

£2 



3$ 



3 



H 



5c5 



I 

* 2° 



246 



LESSONS IN COOKERY 
BANK ACCOUNTS 



Advantages of bank accounts. — A woman who has once formed the habit of using bank 
accounts will find them so great a convenience that never again will she be willing to get 
along without them. Some of the advantages are: (a) the bank is a safe place in which to 
keep money; (b) canceled checks act as receipts; (c) trouble in paying bills is avoided; 
(d) checks may be used to send money out of town; (e) the danger of losing money is avoided. 



DEPOSITED WITH 



#iwt National Sank 

for account of 
Chicago $4jl^ul/ 10 191.?- 

PLEASE LIST EAjffl CHECK SEPARATELY 



- 


OOU 


JttS 


com 


Currency, ... 








Goto, 








Silver ano Change, 








/ON THIS MM. HAMC OF MARCH. ON 
JMKMft/OTHCftCHlOttOMNKS. HAMC OF BANK: 

CMHouT or town banks, tunc or town 

lOR ClTt, 


/ 


SOS 
Soo 

f32 






32, 

y/ 

7* 


92 

Ul ThaT ALL ChECkS AnO MAI 


TTWr 


*3t 

ehdow 


n — 



Checking and savings accounts.— -If you wish to be a good business woman you will 
keep both a checking and a savings account. Plan at the beginning of the month the 
amount. you care to save and put this in your savings account. Put the rest in your checking 



FOOD ECONOMY 



247 



account. Most banks will open a checking account for a woman on a small deposit. Nearly 
all banks will start a savings account on $1.00. 

Opening an account. — Go to the bank chosen and the bank clerk will give you all neces- 
sary information. You will be required to furnish references. If a checking account is 
opened, the clerk will enter the amount deposited in a small pass book, which he will give 
you and which later you will take to the bank whenever you wish to make a deposit. He 
will also give you a check book. If a savings account is started, the clerk will enter the 
amount in a savings book; this you will keep, and later take with you to the bank whenever 
you plan to deposit or withdraw money. 

Making deposits. — Whenever you wish to make a deposit, secure from the bank a deposit 
slip or ticket similar to the form on page 246. 

The savings account deposit slip differs slightly from the checking account slip. Be 
sure to place the savings-book number on every savings deposit slip. Hand in your deposit 
slip (savings or checking) at the proper window, together with the bank book; the clerk 
will enter the deposit and return the book to you. See that the entry in the book agrees 
with your ticket. 

Caution: Deposit a check immediately after receipt of it, within 24 hr. if possible; 
use due diligence. 

Caution: Keep a record of all checks deposited, for in case a check is lost it is charged 
to your account and it is then necessary to have payment stopped and procure a duplicate 
check. The bank acts only as your agent and is not responsible beyond due diligence for 
checks deposited and lost in transit. 

Making out checks. — If you wish to pay a bill, take your check book. It will be filled 
with blanks which should be filled out in the following manner: 



stub 



CHECK 








Chicago. Ill 



1917- N9-JL 






TheKrstNationalBankof Englewood* *• 

pay" »n FP n C TrL^^LJ^J&gir^/. ire*. % /y\ 



LADIES DEPARTMENT . 



?% & 



VUs£L*tS 



(2> 



First fill out in ink the check stub at the left. Under deposit, enter the amount deposited 
in bank. From this subtract the amount of your check. This will show the amount left 
in the bank, or the "balance." Carry this balance over to your next check stub. When- 
ever you make a new deposit, make note of it on your check stub and add the amount to 
your previous balance. In this way you can always keep track of the amount you have in 
the bank. 

When you have finished filling out the stub, fill out the check in ink with the date, 
number of the check, name of person to whom you wish the money paid, and the amount 



248 



L&SSONS IN COOKERY 



of money. Sign your name. Write the amount of money, first in figures, then in words. 
In the case of figures, spaces never should be left before, after, or between amounts; for 
example, no space should lie between $ and x Ho in the preceding check. Be sure to begin 
the written amount at the left margin of the proper line and fill in the remaining space 
with a wavy line, in order that no one may insert an additional amount. For instance, 
should you write: 



-.-4 r,F -..f 




CMICACqllL &££, 4 191 £- VB-&- 



PkV TO THE ORDER OF. 



ITielfetMonalBankofEnglewoodti 



m<d~n/ 



.%££ 



lapis* pgrARTwyr S?Zastz^s>t/ CE*<Hs 



Dollars 



it would be entirely possible for anyone to insert the word "Twenty," making the amount 
$24.20. Write $2,345.00 as Twenty-three hundred forty-five and N Vf oo Dollars. 

Drawing out money, — If you wish to draw money for your personal use, make out a 
check as follows: 



m—t t tni 




CMiCAoqlLL. (Yc£, K I9I^L N9-J.- 



[TlieKrstMonalBankofEnglewood 



2-1W 



.CuAAi 



Pay rg the order of l^//»>f^<»*^vy 



■t£X 



oo 



'/OO 



.Dollars 



VOMES p^AJtTM^T m 7to*AAOj*tS ffljHULS 



In place of "Currency," you may use the word "Cash" or the word "Myself." This 
form should be used only when you yourself intend to present the check at the bank (never 
at a store or office) for payment. It is safer not to make out such a check until one reaches 
the bank, for such a check (except where the word "Myself" is used) requires no indorse- 
ment, and anyone picking it up may cash it. A check containing the word "Myself" 
requires indorsement. 

Indorsements. — Whenever you wish to cash a check, write your name across the back of 
it in ink. This is called an indorsement. Turn check over toward you and sign at the left- 
hand end, close to the margin. The name must be written exactly as it is written on the 



FOOD ECONOMY 249 

face of the check. If it is incorrectly spelled on the check, copy it exactly as it appears 
and below this write it correctly. 

The two following forms of indorsement are approved: 

Blank Endorsement Endorsement in Full 

Person merely signs his name, for instance: Person writes: Pay to the order of (bank, 

firm, or person) 



Marian Ross Name. 



For example: 
Pay to the order of 
The First National Bank of Duluth 
Marian Ross 
or 
Pay to the order of Mandel Brothers 
Marian Ross 



The blank indorsement is sufficient if you are to get the money immediately. It is 
not wise to carry around a check indorsed in blank, for if it is lost, you probably never 
will recover the money. A blank indorsement makes the check payable to bearer. Wait 
until you are ready to cash the check before indorsing it. 

If you have received a check and wish to send it through the mail or to have it cashed 
by another person, indorse it in full, making it payable to the bank, firm, or person to whom 
you wish it paid. If you send such a check out of town, add ten cents for exchange. 

" If you lose a check, telephone immediately to the person who gave it to you, asking 
that payment on it be stopped at once. As an added precaution telephone the bank to 
hold up the check until word is received from the maker. 

Bank statements, — The first of every month the bank issues a statement showing the 
amount deposited during the month, the checks cashed during the month, and the balance 
on hand at the end of the month. Compare this statement with your check-book stub 
and see that both are correct. If a person has received a check from you and has not cashed 
it, this check of course will not show on the statement. 

The bank will return with the statement all checks cashed during the month. These 
are called canceled checks. Keep these canceled checks, for they now act as receipts, 
showing you have paid this money to the persons named on the checks. 

Checking of all bills. — In running a charge account, paid by check, it is wise to keep 
on file the itemized bills or tickets which accompany all purchases. Then at the end of the 
week, or the month, before paying the bill, compare it with the small bills or tickets. Check 
all bills; there may be mistakes in multiplication or addition. 

Carrying money while traveling. — If you wish checks for small amounts that can be 
cashed anywhere, get bankers' traveling checks. These may be obtained for a small fee 
at your bank. 



250 LESSONS IN COOKERY 

Sending money out of town. — There are at least four safe ways of sending money out of 
town: 

Postal Money Order: This may be purchased for a few cents at any post-office 

or postal station. 
Express Money Order: This is similar to the postal money order except that it 
is issued and guaranteed by an express company instead of by the government. 
Bank Draft : This may be purchased at a bank ; it is free of charge to a customer. 
Telegram: This is the quickest way to send money, but for all sums under 
$100.00 it is generally the most expensive way to send it. 
If any of the first three is lost in the mail or paid to the wrong person, you can obtain 
a duplicate. 



THE INDEX 



Abbreviations, table of, 7 
Acid: 

functions of, 127 

jelly fruits grouped according to, 35- 

preservation of foods by, 25-30 

test for, in jelly-making, 38 
Acid foods, methods used for preserving, 24 
Acids: 

fruit, natural, preservation by, 28 

meats cooked wjth, 125-127 
Adulterants: 

list of, 234 

[problem], 235 
Adulteration of foods, 230-236 
Air blast, drying by, 12 
Albumin, as affected by heat, etc., 5, 6, 7 
Alfalfa flour: 

food value of, 170 

substitute for wheat flour, 165 
American rabbit, 66, n. 4 
Apples: 

baked, developing sweetness in, 176 

in conserve, 33, n. 3 

see also the various methods of preserving 
fruits 

Baked beans: 

Boston, 143, n. 4 

class recipe for, 143, n. 3 

quick-process, 143 • 

variations of, 143, n. 2 
Baked dishes: 

beans: see Baked beans 

loaves, suggestions for, 90, n. 3 

potatoes, 128 

suggestions for, 54 
Baking powders [problems], 225 
Baking temperatures: 

for bread, 7 

for meat loaf, 90, n. 1 
Balls: 

cheese, 63 

legume, 62 

meat, 62 

nut-butter, 63 

sauteed, 61 
Bank accounts, 246-250 



Barley flour, guide to use of, 168 
Barley sugar, how produced, 5 
Beans: 
baked: see Baked beans 
dried, stew of, 96, n. 5 
kidney, croquettes of, 134, n. 4 
soy, stewed, 144 
Beef: 
as hung (wholesale cuts) [Fig. 22], 189 
corned, for "boiled dinner," 114, n. 12 

left-over, 60, n. 8 
cuts of, for pot-roast, 121 
dried, creamed, preparation of, 66 
fat, removing flavor from, 174 
kidney, stewed, 117, n. 3 
on hoof (wholesale cuts) [Fig. 21], 188 
retail cuts of, 181 
[Figs. 1-6, 8-11], following 180 
[Figs. 12-20], following 186 
[Figs. 23-32], following 190 
market prices of, 186 

method of cooking, etc. [problem], 182-185 
sour, 125, 126 
baked, 125 
simmered, 125, 126 
stew of, with dumplings, 113 
wholesale cuts of, calories in, 187 
[problem], 190 
protein value of, 187 
"Birds," tripe: see Tripe rolls 
Biscuit dough: 
baking-powder, 103 
mashed potatoes in, 103, n. 
Biscuits, stale, freshening, 172, n. 1 
Blackberries, preserved, 35, n. 1 
Blazing fat, how to quench, 85 
Bleaches for foods: 
list of, 234 
[problem], 235 
Body processes, foods regulating, 4, n. 1 
"Boiled dinner," 114, n. 12 
Boiling point at sea level, 7 
Boston baked beans, 143, n. 4 
Boston brown bread, 146 
class recipe, suggestions for, 146, n. 9 
pudding of, 146, n. 2 
Brains, creamed, 66 



251 



252 



THE INDEX 



Braised meats, 120-124 
Braising, four types of, 120 
Bread, 153-162 

baking, temperatures for, 7 

Boston brown, 146 

corn-meal sweet-potato, 162 

long-process, 156, n. 3 

nut-fruit, class recipe for, 157, n. 2 

raisin, 158 

raising, temperatures for, 7 

rye, sour-dough, long-process, 160 

self-rising, 161 

short-process, 155-157 
class recipe for, 156 

stale, freshening, 172, nn. 1, 2 
uses for, 172 

white, short-process, 155 
Bread crumbs, substitutes for, 90 
Bread doughs, derivatives of , 158 
Breadsticks, 159 
Breadstuffs, economic, 176 
Breakage of glass cans, prevention of, 21 
Breakfast menus, 59, 64, 241 
Brisket [Fig. 27], following 190 
Broiled meat balls, 130-132 
Broiling: 

notes on, 63, nn. 1, 2 

results of, 5 
Brown gravy, 68 

Browning agents for sautemg, 61, n. 1 
Brown sauce, 131 

Buckwheat flour, guide to use of, 168 
Budgets [problems], 237-239 
Butter: 

drawn, 68 

fruit, 32 

pure, tests for, 230-232 

substitutes for, 176, 177 
Buttered crumbs, 51, n. 2 
Buttermilk, uses of, 175 
Buttermilk cheese, 152 
Buying, economic, 177 



Cabbage: 

center of, use for, 54, n. 1 

stuffed, baked, 53 
filling for, 54, n. 2 
Cake, stale, freshening, 172, n. 1 
Cakes, varieties of, made of bread dough, 158 
Calcium carbonate, effect of dry heat on, 5 
Calorie, equivalent of, 8 



Calories: 

in complete dishes, 45, 46 

1,000, cuts of beef furnishing, 187 
Camp cooking, materials for, 51 
Candies: see Sweets 
Canning: 

cold-pack method: 
apparatus for, 17 
steps in, 19-22 
time-table for, 18, 19 
value of, 17 

groups of food for, 24 

hot-pack, 23-28, 30 * 

synopsis of, 24 
Cans: 

glass, prevention of breakage of, 21 

selection of, 21 
Caramel, how produced, 5 
Carbohydrate foodstuffs, types of, 4, n. 3 
Carbonaceous foods, 3 
Carbon dioxide, effect of dry heat on, 5 
Carbo-nitrogenous foods: 

classification of, 3 

function of, 4, n. 1 
Carrot-orange conserve, 33 
Carrots, pectin content of, class work on, 39, 

nn. 5, 6 
Cashbook: 

blank form of, 244 

list of items to be entered in, 243 

specimen page of ,243 
Celery, salted (canned), 29 
Cellulose, effect of boiling, 5 
Centigrade scale, conversion of, to Fahren- 
heit, 8 
Cereals, breakfast: 

examples of, 3 

prices of [problem], 218-220 

uses for, 171 
Cheese: 

as a meat substitute, 151, 152 

balls, 63 

buttermilk, 152 

cottage, 151 
sour-milk, types of, 151 
sweet-milk, 152 

creamed, 66 

croquettes, 134, n. 5 

hard and soft [problem], 214 

hot sandwich containing, 73 

manufacture of [problem], 215 

on toast, 66, n. 4 



THE INDEX 



253 



sauce, average recipe for, 76, n. 4 

sour-milk, 151, 152 

straws, 159 

substitutes for, in sandwich, 74, n. 1 
Cheese-making, temperatures for, 7 
Cheese sauce for escalloped dishes, 76, n. 4 
Chestnut flour or meal, guide to use of, 168 
Chestnut sauce, 131, n. 4 
Chicken, creamed, on toast, calories in, 45 
Chops: 

edible portion and waste in [problem], 201, 
202 

prices of, comparative [problem], 201 
Chowder: 

clam, 98 

fish, 97 

types of, 98, n. 5 
Citric-acid crystals, use of, 36, n. 2 
Citron-melon pectin, extraction of, for use in 

jelly, 37, n. 4 
Citrous-fruit extracts, 173 
Citrous'fruits, how to peel, 33, n. 4 
Clam chowder, 98 
Club sandwich, 73 
Club steak, 180 
Coating: 

for cheese sandwich, 74, n. 2 

for fried foods, types of, 86 
Codfish: 

balls, 82 

creamed, 66 
Cold-liquid blend for white sauce, 70 
Cold-pack method of canning: 

one-period, 17-22 
time-table for processes of, 18, 19 

precautions for, 24 

types of canning apparatus for, 17 
Collagen: see Connective tissue 
Complete dishes, 43-104 

calories in, 45, 46 

dietetic value of, 45-47 

economic value of, 47 

from baked potato, 129, n. 2 

garnishes for, 51 

groups of ingredients for, 48-51 

large number of, 46, 47 

liquid and binding material for, 50 

miscellaneous notes on, 51 

protein foods for, 48 

seasonings for, 50 

starchy ingredients for, 49 

uses of, 45 



Connective tissue: 

agents for softening, 6, 108, n. 3, 109, n. 4 

types of, 126 
Conserve: 

carrot-orange, 33 

orange-plum, 34 

suggested combinations for, 34 

tomato-raisin, 33 
Cores, uses for, 178 
Corn, salted (canned), 30 
Corn meal, guide to use of, 168 
Corn-meal sweet-potato bread, 162 
Cost of supplies [problems] : 

for dinner, 104 

for luncheon, 94, 116, 132, 147. 150 
Costs of menus, 110, 111 
Cottage cheese: 

buttermilk, 152 

sour-milk, types of, 151 

sweet-milk, 152 

types of, 151 
Cottonseed flour or meal, guide to use of, 168 
Cracklings, uses for, 174, n. 7 
Cream, retail prices and uses of [problem], 210, 

211 
Creamed-fat blend for white sauce, 71 
Creamed foods, 64-71 

chicken on toast, 45 

types of, 65, n. 4 
Croquettes: 

complete-dish, 81-82 
proportions constituting, 81, n. 3 

four types of, 83 

general method for, 84 

protein food, 133, 134 
variations of, 134, n. 6 

salmon, suggestion for sauces for, 69, III, 
n. 2 

suggestions for preparation of, 134, nn. 6-8 
Croustades, 65, n. 3 
Crumbs: 

bread, preparation of, 172, n. 4 

buttered, 51, n. 2 
use of, 54, n. 4 
Crusts, top, varieties of, 102 
Cups, mashed-potato, 58 
Curd, soy-bean, 48, n. 3 

Dinner menus, 61, 88, 95, 104, 110, 111, 112, 
120, 125, 130, 241 

Double boiler, tempefatures allowed by, 7 
Drawn butter, 68 



254 



THE INDEX 



Drippings: 

seasonings for, 173 

source of, 173 

uses of, 173 
Drying: 

fruits preserved by, 11-16 

home, agents in, 12 

process of, essentials in, 11 

time-table for, 13 

vegetables preserved by, 11-16 
Duck, mock: see Steak roll 
Dumplings, 115 

for beef stew, 113 
method for, 113 
Dyes used in foods, 234 

Eating, economy in, 178 
Economy: 

in buying, 177 

in eating, 178 

in refuse, 178 

in gas, 178 

in serving, 178 

in soap, 179 

in utensils, 179 

ways of earning money at home, 179 
Eggs: 

as meat substitutes, 148, 149 

economic uses of, 175 

escalloped, 148 

preservation of, in water glass, 211 
in various ways, 212, n. 7 

retail prices and uses of [problem], 210 

tests for, 232, 233 

thrift hints on, 175 

viscous quality of, in relation to flour mix- 
tures, 166-169 
Eggs-in-the-nest, 129, n. 3 
Eneigy, types of food furnishing, 4, n. 1 
Energy-yielding foods, 217-224 
Escalloped dishes, 75, n. 1 

complete, 75-78 

general method for, 80 

kinds of, 76, n. 4 

proportions for: 
average, 75, n. 3-76, n. 4 
general, 79 

selection of ingredients for, 79, n. 4 

types of, 78 
Escalloped oysters, 148 

ingredients added to, 149, n. 1 

preparation of, 149, n. 2 



Fahrenheit scale, conversion of f to Centi- 
grade, 8 
Fat: 

beef, removal of flavor from, 174, n. 2 

blazing, how to quench, 85 

clarifying, 87, n. 1 

effects of heat and moisture on, 5 

foods characterized by, 3 

rendered, 174 

soaking with, prevention of, 85 

used, care of, 87 
Fat-proof coating: see Croquettes, general 

methods for 
Fats: 

economic forms of, 176 

for white sauce, 69 

left-over, 171 

solid, commercial uses and composition of 
{problem], 218 

solid, expensive and cheap [problem], 217 

used with dried legumes, 145 

uses for, 173 
Feeding a family of six [problem], 240-242 
Fermentation, preservation by, 28-29 
Feterita and soy-bean soup, ingredients for, 

145, n. 5 
Finnan haddie, creamed, 66 
Fireless cooker: 

beef stew cooked in, 114, n. 7 

time for cooking stuffed heart in, 122 

tough meats, 108, n. 3 
Fireless-cooker braising, 120 
Fish: 

as meat substitute, 148-150 

cheap and expensive [problem], 209 

escalloped, 76 

left-over, 82, n. 2, 133 

non-vertebrate, a study of [problem], 208 

type of sauces served with, 127 

unsalted, preparation of, 66 

vertebrate, classification of [problem], 206 
fresh, tests for [problem], 206 
stale, tests for [problem], 206 
study of [problem], 207 
Fish chowder, 97 
Fish rolls, 123, n. 1 
Fish soup, 139 

Fish stews, complete-dish, 97, 98 
Flour for use with eggs, 167, n. 3 
Flour mixtures: 

examples of, 3 

viscous substances in, function of, 166 



THE INDEX 



255 



Flours: 

barley, guide to use of, 168 

buckwheat, guide to use of, 168 

chestnut, guide to use of, 168 
- cottonseed, guide to use of, 168 

from wheat [problem], 220, 221 

retail prices of [problem], 169, 222 

rice, guide to use of, 169 

rye, guide to use of, 169 

sorghum, guide to use of, 169 

strong-flavored, disguise of, 168, 169, 170, 
n. 6 

substitute, combinations of, 170 
guide to use of, 167, n. 1, 168-169 
materials for, 165, 166 

wheat, substitutes for, 165-170 
notes on, 170 

principles governing, 166, 167 
with high protein value, 170 
Food expenditure for one month [problem], 239 
Food poisoning, prevention of, 24 
Fried foods, coatings for, 86 
Fruit acids, natural, preservation by, 28 
Fruit butters, 32 

Fruit juices, preserving, 23, nn. 1-5 
Fruit loaf, 89, n. 5 
Fruit paste, 33, n. 4 
Fruits: 

acid, for jelly, 36 

citrous, removing peel from, 33, n. 4 

cold-pack method of canning, 17-22, 24 

developing sweetness in, 176 

drying, 11-15 
essentials in, 11 

escalloped dishes containing, 78 

for marmalades, 32 

for sweet pickles, 25 

hot-pack canning of, 22-24, 25, 26, 28, 31- 
39, 40-42 

jelly, 35-37 

preservation of, by sugar, 31-39, 41 

spiced, 26, n. 3 

time-table for drying, 13 

time-table for preserving by cold pack, 18, 19 
Frying: 

general rules for, 85-87 

temperatures for, 84, n. 3 
Functions of food, 4, n. 1 

Game, retail price of, etc. [problem], 205 
Garnishes: 

for beef stew, 114 



for complete dishes, 51 

for croquettes, 84 

for Hungarian goulash, 112 

for meat loaf, 88 

for pot-roast, 121 

for sandwiches, 72, 73, 74 

for soups, 140 

for stewed lambs' kidneys, 117 

for stuffed baked potatoes, 128 
Gas, economy in, 178 
Gelatin: 

a protein food, 3 

classifications of [problems], 213. 

comparative costs of [problem], 212, 213 

effects of heat, moisture, etc., on, 5, 6 

presence in nitrogenous and carbo-nitroge- 
nous foods, 4 

presence in soup stock, 138 

relative value of [problem], 213 
Giblet sauce, 131, n. 4 
Gluten: 

effect of dry heat on, 5 

of wheat, function of, 166 
Goulash, Hungarian: see Hungarian goulash 
Grapefruit, method for peeling, 33, n. 4 
Grape juice, unfermented, 22 
Gravy: 

brown, 68, 131 
seasonings for, 131, n. 2 
with cold mutton, 116, n. 4 

for beef stew, making of, 114, 115, n. 1 

for meat balls, 130 and n. 1 

for stewed lambs' kidneys, 117, n. 1 

meat, substitute for, 58, n. 3 

see also the various sauces 
Greens, salted, 29 

Hash- 
complete-dish, 59, 60 
dietetic value of, 45 

Hash cakes, 60, n. 7 

Heart, stuffed, 122 

Heat: 
and vinegar, preservation by, 28 
artificial, drying by, 12 
effects of, in cooking, 5, 6 

"Heel of round" [Fig. 23], following 190 

High-pressure-cooker braising, 120 

High-temperature cooking, types of, 6, n. 3 

Home-canning apparatus, types of, 17 

Hominy, left-over, 172 

Horseradish sauce, 82 



256 



THE INDEX 



Hot-pack method, 22-24 
canning pickles by, 25-28 
for marmalades, 31-34 
various ways of preserving by, 22-24, 25- 
28, 31-39 
Hot-water bath for cold pack, temperatures 

allowed by, 17 
Household expenditures, annual budget of 

[problem], 238 
Household supplies, prices of [problem], 228, 

229 
Hungarian goulash, 112 

Inorganic foods, classification of, 3 
Irish stew, 117 

Jar method of canning, 24 

Jellies, 35-39 

Jelly: 

boiling point for, 7 

combinations for, 36, n. 1 

economical material for, 39, n. 1 

fruits for making, 35-37 

method for making, 37-39 
Jelly stage, tests for, 38 
Juices, meat, extraction and retention of, 

110, n. 4 
Juicy vegetables: see Vegetables 
Junket tablets, 152, n. 3 

Kettle-braising, 120-124 

Kidney beans, croquettes of, 134, n. 4 

Kidneys, lambs', stewed, 117 

Kitchen furnishings, estimate of [problem], 239 

Lamb, sauce served with, 127 
Lamb chops, various cuts of [Fig. 7], follow- 
ing 180 
Lambs' kidneys, stewed, 117 
Lattice work, 159 
Ledger: 

blank form for, 245 

list of items to be entered in, 243 
Left-overs: 

baked beans, 96, n. 5 

bread, stale, 172 and nn. 1-4 

breadstuffs, 176 

cereals, 69, II, n. 4, 165, 171 

fats, 87, 171, 176 
from drippings, 173 
rendered, 174 

fish, 82, n. 2, 133, n. 1 



hominy, 172 
legumes, 133, n. 1 
meats, 72, n. 3, 108, 133, n. 1, 171 
creamed, preparation of, 66 
stew of, 115, 116 
use in lentil stew, 95, n. 4 
milk, sour, 171 
potatoes: 
baked, 128, n. 5 
mashed, 82, n. 3 
rice, 172 

stock made of, 138 and nn. 1-3 
uses for, in general, 171, 172 
Legume balls, 62 
Legumes: 
creamed, preparation of, 66 
dried, as meat substitute, 143-145, 147 
commonly eaten, 144 
complete-dish, stews of, 95, 96 
examples of, 3 
food value of, 144 
left-over, use of, 133, n. 1 
soups of, combinations for, 145, n. 5 
substituting in hash, 60, n. 6 
various methods of cooking, 144 
Lemon extract, 173 
Lentil stew, 95, 96 

substitutes in, 96, n. 5 
Liquids for white sauce, 68 
Liver and bacon, stewed, 118 
Loaf: 
baked, 89, 90 
(complete), 89 
(incomplete), 89, 90 
fruit, 89, n. 5 
steamed, 88 
Loaves: 
complete-dish, 88-94 
meat, or other protein-food, notes on, 90 
Low-temperature cooking, types of, 6, n. 3 
Luncheons, 52, 55, 72, 75, 81, 94, 97, 99, 101, 
116, 132, 133, 135, 143, 147, 148, 150, 
151, 241 

Macaroni: 

how to boil, 49, n. 2 

selection of, 78, n. 3 
Macaroni and cheese: 

croquettes, 81 

escalloped, 75 
calories in, 46 
Marketing tables and guides, 180-229 



THE INDEX 



257 



Marmalades, 31-34 
economical, 32 
methods of cooking, 31 
suggestions for, 31 
types of, 31 
Measures: 
hints regarding, 8 
table of, 7 
Meat balls: 
broiled, 130-132 
of cooked meat, 62 
of raw meat, 130 
sauteed, 61 
"Meat bird," 123, 124 
Meat juices, extraction and retention of, 

110, n. 4 
Meat loaves, notes on, 90 
Meat pie, 101 
Meat stews, 112-119 
Meat stock, 135-140 
with vegetables, 135 
without vegetables, 135 
Meat substitutes: see Substitutes 
Meat turnovers, 99 
Meats: 
braised, 120-124 
cooked, left-over: 
creamed, 66 
stew of, 115 
cooked with acids, 125-127 
cooking of, a synopsis, 109 
corresponding cuts of [problem], 203 
effects of heat, moisture, etc., on, 5, 6 
hot, sandwiches of, 72 
calories in, 46 
substitute for, 72, n. 4 
kettle-braised, 121 

left-over, uses for, 72, n. 3, 133, n. 1, 171 
marketing guides for, 180-205 
method for preserving, 24 
retail cuts of, summary of [problem], 204 
soup, economic use of, 47 
time for preserving by cold-pack method, 19 
tough, braised, 120, n. 1 
economy in, 47, 107 
softening of, 6, 127 
uses of, 108 
type-of sauces for, 127 
types of, for braising, 120 
for stews, 112 
Mechanical action on foods, 6 
Melted-fat blend for white sauce, 71 



Menus, 241 

actual costs of, 110, 111 

breakfast: see Breakfast menus 

dinner: see Dinner menus 

for criticism, 83, n. 6 

luncheon: see Luncheon menus 
Milk: 

economic uses of, 175 

food group containing, 3 

formalin in [problem], 233 

retail prices and uses of [problem], 210 

skim, uses of, 175 

sour, uses of, 171, 175 

sweet, a substitute for sour, 8 
Mineral constituents, foods containing, 3 
Mineral salts, effect of heat, moisture, etc., 

on, 5, 6 
Mock duck: see Steak roll 
Moisture, effects of, in cooking, 5, 6 
Money: 

care of: see Bank accounts 

ways of earning, 179 
Mutton: 

as hung (wholesale cuts) [Fig. 86], 194 

cooked, cold, gravy for, 116, n. 4 

on hoof (wholesale cuts) [Fig. 85], 194 

retail cuts of, method of cooking, eta 
[problem], 195, 196 

wholesale cuts of [table], 196 
Mutton heart, stuffed, 122, n. 1 
Mutton suet, economic use of, 174, n. 3 
Mustard pickles, mixed, 27 
Mustard sauce, 68 

Navel (retail cut) [Fig. 28], following 190 
Neck (retail cut) [Fig. 80], following 190 
Nitrogenous foods: see Protein foods 
Non-acid foods, method for preserving, 24 
Non-nitrogenous foods: see Carbonaceous foods 
Noodles, 77 

serving of, 77, n. 1 
Nut bread, 158 
Nut-butter balls, 63 
Nut meal: 

guide to uses of, 169 

protein value of, 170 
Nuts: 

list of, 3 

preparation of meal and butter from, for 
creamed dishes, 66 

retail prices of [problem], 216 



258 



THE INDEX 



Oatmeal, guide to use of, 169 
Onions, stuffed, baked, 53 
Open-kettle method of canning: see Hot- 
pack method 
Orange extract, 173 
Orange-plum conserve, 34 
Oranges, method of peeling, 33, n. 4 
Organic foods, classification of, 3, 4 
Organs (internal) of various animals, prices, 

etc. [problem], 202 
Oven-braising, 120 

for cooking steak roll, 123 
Oven-roasting, effects of, 5 
Oven-stewing: see Oven-braising 
Oven temperatures, table of, 7 
Oysters, escalloped, 77, 149 

ingredients added to, 149, n. 1 

preparation of, 149, n. 2 

Pan-broiling, 63 
Parings, fruit, uses or, 178 
Pastry, plain, 103 
Peaches, preserved, 35, n. 1 
Peanut butter, 48, n. 4 

how to use, in creamed dishes, 67, nn. 7, 8 
Peanut meal, how to use, in creamed dishes, 

67, nn. 7, 8 
Peanuts : 

escalloped, 76 

raw, stew of, 96, n. 5 
Peas, dried, stew of, 96, n. 5 
Pectin: 

and acid content, fruits grouped according 
to, 35-37 

citron-melon, extraction of, 37 

orange, extraction of, 36, n. 3, 37 

sources of, 36, nn. 1-3, 37 

test for, 38 
Pepper relish, 27 
Peppers: 

green, preserving of, 28 

notes on, 26, nn. 1-5 

stuffed, baked, 53 

sweet, canned, 26 
Pickles: 

canning of, by hot-pack method, 25-28 

mustard, mixed, 27 

sweet, 25 
Pickling, five methods of, 28 
Pies: 

complete-dish, 101-104 



crusts for, 102, 103 

meat, 101 
Pilaf, Turkish, liquid used for, 93, n. 2 
Plate boil [Figs. 25, 26], following 190 
Poisoning, food, prevention of, 24 
Pork: 

as hung (wholesale cuts) [Fig, 88], 197 

on hoof (wholesale cuts) [Fig. 37, problem], 197 

retail cuts, method of cooking, etc. [problem], 
198-200 

wholesale cuts [problem], 200 
Pork heart, stuffed, 122, n. 1 
Porterhouse steak, 180 
Potato puff, 129 
Potatoes: 

a la paprika, 128, n. 3 

baked, 128 
advantages of, 128, n. 4 
brown sauce for, 131, n. 3 
left-over, 128, n. 5 
stuffed, 128, 129 

boiled, 55, 56, nn. 1-7 

mashed, 102 
cups, 58 

left-over, 82, n. 3 
white or sweet, 56, 57, nn. 1-5 

puff, 129 

steamed, 55 
Pot-roast, 120-124 

class recipe for, 122, n. 5 

proportions for, 121, n. 2 
Poultry: 

retail prices of, and seasons for [problem], 
205 
Preservation of foods, 9-42 

[problem], 236 

see also Fruits, Meats, Vegetables, etc. 
Preservatives used in foods, 234 

[problem], 235, 236, nn. 1, 2 
Pressure-cooker, temperature allowed by, 17 
Protein, cost of meats yielding one pound of, 

187 
Protein -food croquettes, 133, 134 
Protein -food loaves, notes on, 90 
Protein foods: 

comparative cost of [problem], 216 

composition of [problem], 149 

creamed, 64-71 

for complete dish, 48 

for croquettes, 83 

for escalloped dishes, 78 

hot sandwiches containing, 72-74 



THE INDEX 



259 



marketing tables and guides for, 180-216 

thrift hints on, 175 

uses of, 175 

vegetable, 48, n. 8 • 

see also protein foods listed in the table on 
p. 3 
Protein foodstuffs, types of, 4, n. 2 
Proteins: 

effect of heat, etc., on, 5, 6 

foods containing, 3 
Prunes, developing sweetness in, 176 
Puff paste, 103 
Pumpernickel, 160, n. 3 
Pumpkin, dried, 16 

Raisin bread, 158 

Refuse, economy in, 178 

Relish, pepper, 27 

Rennet, 152, n. 3 

Rennin, 152, n. 3 

Rib ends [Fig. 29], following 190 

Rice, 91-94 

boiled, 92 

cooked in double boiler, 93 

cooked, uses for, 91 

left-over, 172 

steamed, 93 

three methods for cooking, 91 

types of, 91 

washing, 92 

well-cooked, characteristics of, 91 
Rice flour, guide to use of, 169 
Rice foundations, complete-dish loaves with, 

88-91, 94 
Rice kernels, separateness of, 92, n. 3 
Rinds of citrous fruits, uses for, 178 
Roasts: 

pot [Figs. 16 t 17], following 186 

rib [Figs. 1-5], following 180 

rump [Fig. 6] t following 180 
Rolls, various forms of, 158 
Round steaks, 180 
Roux, 69, n. 6 

Rubbers for cans, testing, 21, n. 3 
Rye bread, sour-dough, long-process, 160 
Rye flour, 170, n. 6 

disguising of, 170, n. 6 

guide to use of, 169 

Salmon croquettes, suggestion* for sauces for, 

69, III, n. 2 
Salmon loaf, filling for, 89, n. 4 



Salt: 

preservation of foods by, 29 

solution of, 5, 6 
Salt-rising bread: see Self-rising bread 
Sandwiches: 

cheese, hot, 73 

club, 73 

complete-dish, 72-74 

hot-meat, 72 

dietetic value of, 46 

mixture for sautemg, 74, n. 2 
Sauces: 

brown, 131 

cheese, average recipe for, 76, n. 4 

chestnut, 131, n. 4 

for escalloped eggs, 148 and n. 1 

for escalloped oysters, 149 

for hot-meat sandwiches, 72 and n. 1 

for hot-meat sandwich substitutes, 72, n. 4 

for protein-food croquettes, 133 

for sour beef, baked, 125 

for steak roll, 123 

giblet, 131, n. 4 

horseradish, 82 

medium, for creamed meat, 64 

mustard, 68 

prevention of lumping of, 69, n. 6 

tomato, 68 and n. 2 
for steamed loaf, 88 
for tripe, 118, 119, n. 2 

white: 
derivatives of, 68 
ingredients for, 67 
possible ingredients for, 68-70 
three methods for, 70-71 
uses of, 67 
Sauteed balls, general recipe for, 61 
Sautemg, 63 

Sealing cans, directions for, 20 
Seasoning mixture, vegetable, 23 
Seasonings, 50 

dry, a study of, 227 

for brown sauce, 131, n. 2 

for complete dishes, 50 

for cottage cheeses, 151 

for drippings, 173 

for fish chowder, 97, n. 1 

for meat or other protein-food loaves, 90 

for meat pie, 101 

for meat stew, 116 

for potato puff, 129, n. 2 

for protein-food croquettes, 133 and n. 1 



260 



THE INDEX 



Seasonings (continued) : 

for sauces, 70 

for soups, 139 
Self-rising bread, 161, 162 
Serving, economy in, 178 
Short-cut steak, 180 
Shoulder clod [Fig. 24], following 190 
Simmering, temperatures for, 7 
Sirups : 

for canning, 21, n. 5, 22 

for sweet pickles, 25 

study of \proHem], 223, 224 
Soap, economy in, 179 
Soda, objection to, 143, n. 5 
Sodium chloride, effect of dry heat on, 5 
Soup bones: 

hind shank [Fig. 81], following 190 

knuckle [Pig. 82], following 190 
Soups: 

accompaniments of, 140 

additions to, 139, 140 

dried-legume, list of, 145, n. 5 

fish, 139 

stock, 135-140 
Sour-milk cottage cheese, 34 

types of, 151 
Soy-bean and feterita soup, ingredients for, 

145, n. 5 
Soy beans: 

curd of, 48, n. 3 

flour made of, 145, 165, 166, n. 6, 170 

soufflees of, 145 

stewed, 144 
Spice and vinegar, preservation by, 28 
Spices and herbs for pot-roast, 121, n. 1 
Starch: 

effects of heat and moisture on, 5 

foods characterized by, 3 
Starch "blends" in general cooking, 69, n. 7 
Starchy ingredients: 

in complete dishes, 49 

in croquettes, 83 

in escalloped dishes, 78 

in thickening for stews, 114, n. 11 
Steak roll: 

kinds of steaks used for, 123 

methods of cooking, 123 
Steaks, 180 

beef [Figs. 8-11], following 180, [Figs. 12- 
15], following 186 

tough, treatment of, 126, n. 
Steam-pressure canner, temperature allowed, 17 



Stews: 
beef [Figs. 18-20], following 186 

with dumplings, 113-115 
complete-dish, how to make, 49, n. 4 
dried-legume, complete-dish, 95, 96 
fish, complete-dish, 97, 98 
Irish, 117 
lambs' kidney, 117 
lentil, 95, 96 
liver and bacon, 118 
meat, 112-119 
of tripe rolls, 118, 119 
prepared from cooked meat, 115, 116 
types of meat for, 112 
various kinds of [problem], 119 
Stock: 

brown, 137, n. 6 
cleared (class recipe), 137 
ingredients for, 138 
meat, 135-140 

to clear, 137 

with vegetables, 135 

without vegetables, 135 
preserving of, 136, n. 3 
time for additions to, 136, n. 1 
uses of, 140 
vegetable, 69, I, n. 3 
Strawberries, preserved (cold-process), 35 
"Strip steaks," 180 
Strudel, 78, n. 2 
Stuffed baked potatoes, 128, 129 
Stuffed heart, 122 
Stuffing: 
for heart, 122 
for steak roll, 123 
for tripe, 118 
Substitutes: 
butter, 176, 177 
cheese, in sandwich, 74, n. 1 
chief wheat flour, 165-170 
flours, combinations of, 170 

guide to use of, 167, n. 1, 168, 169 

materials for, 165, 166, nn. 1-6 
food, 234 

[problem], 235, 236 
meat, 141-152 

beans used as, 96, n. 5 

eggs used as, 148-150 

fish used as, 148-150 

legumes used as, 143-145 

peanuts, raw, used as, 96, n. 5 
wheat, proportions of, 167, n. 1 



THE INDEX 



261 



Substitution for wheat flour: 
principles of, 166 
rules for, 167 

Sugar: 
effects of heat and moisture on, 5 
preservation by, 31-42 
quantity of, for jelly, 38, 39, n. 3 
synopsis of preservation by, 39-42 

Sugars, study of [problem], 223, 224 

Sunshine, an agent in home-drying, 12 

Sweetbreads, creamed, preparation of, 66 

Sweet-milk cottage cheese, 152 

Sweet peppers, canned, 26 

Sweet pickles, 25, 26 

Sweet-potato bread: see Corn-meal sweet- 
potato bread 

Sweet potatoes, ways of cooking, 128, 129 

Sweets, economical forms of, 175 

Tartaric acid, use of, 36, n. 2 
Teas, a study of [problem], 226, 227 
Temperatures: 

allowed by double boiler, 7 

allowed by steam-pressure canner, 17 

allowed in cold-pack method, 17 

for baked potatoes, 128 
• for baked protein -food loaf, 90, n. 1 

for beef stew, 113, 114, n. 4 

for buttermilk cheese, 152 

for cheese ingredients, 129, n. 2 

for cottage cheese, 152 

for frying, 84, n. 3 

for meat balls, 130 

for pot-roast, 121 

for softening connective tissue, 108, n. 3 

for sterilizing glassware, etc., 42, n. 5 

high, effect of, 6, n. 3 

in bread-making, 155, 156, n. 3, 161 

miscellaneous, table of, 7 
Tenderloin, 180 
Thickening agents: 

for soups, 139, 140, n. 1 

for white sauces and their derivatives, 69 
Thrift suggestions, miscellaneous: 

fats, 173, 174 

general thrift hints, 175-179 

homemade extracts, 173 

uses of left-over foods, 171, 172 
Time-table: 

for drying, 13 

for sirups, 22 

of one-period cold-pack method, 18, 19 



Tissue: 

connective, agents for softening, 6, 108, n. 3, 
109, n. 4 
types of, 126 

foods building, 4, n. 1 
Toast boxes, 65 
Toast, French, 74, n. 2 
Tomatoes: 

dried, 15 

stuffed, baked, 53 
Tomato juice, treatment of, 69, n. 5 
Tomato paste, 15 
Tomato-raisin conserve, 33, 34 
Tomato sauce, 68 

for steamed loaf, 88 

for tripe, 118, 119, n. 2 
Tripe: 

preparation of, 119, n. 1 

rolls of , stewed, 118, 119 
Turnips, pectin content of, class work on, 39, 

nn. 5, 6 
Turnovers, complete-dish, 99, 100 

Utensils, economy in, 179 

Veal: 
as hung (wholesale cuts) [Fig. 34] t 191 
on hoof (wholesale cut) [problem, Fig. 33], 

191 
retail cuts of, method of cooking, etc. 

[problem], 192, 193 
wholesale cuts of [problem], 193 
Veal heart, stuffed, 122, nn. 1, 3 
Vegetable seasoning mixture, 23 
Vegetables: 
cold-pack canning for, 17-21, 24, 40-42 
drying, 11, 16 

essentials in, 11 
economic uses of, 49, n. 1, 176 
escalloped dishes of, 78 
for marmalades, 32 
for pickles, 25-29 

hot-pack canning of, 23-28, 30, 40-42 
juicy, escalloped, 78 

stuffed, 52-54 
filling for, 52 

uses of, 50, nn. 3-5, 49, n. 1, 51 
left-over, 171 

preserved by fermentation, 28, 29 
preserved by salt, 29-30 
raw, used with meat stew, 115 
seasonal buying of [problem], 224 



262 THE INDEX 

Vegetables (continued) : Viscous substances in flour mixtures, function 

starchy, stuffed, 55-58 of, 166 

tuffi"^ 6T ti f 54 2 WaffleS of bread dough ' 159 

time for preserving by cold-pack, 18, 19, „ T , * ^ ^ 1 « j u i* 

2 ^ 6 J ** t i t Water-seal outfit, temperatures allowed by, 17 

+,- m ! f«hio f^- ,*««„„ iq Wheat flour: jee Flour 

time-table for drying, 13 „-, r - , r . co 

~4.u , „ , ,oi o o Whey, food value of, 152, n. 2 

with pot-roast, 121, nn. 2, 3 ™.-/ V j u ^ *« i M 

Vm . White bread, short-process, 155, 157 

home'made, 177 White-bread derivatives, 158, 159 

mixtures of, for meats, 126, n. o, 127 Whlte sauce: m ***"*' wlute 

preservation by, 28 Yeast, cakes of, sizes of, 155, n. 1 



This tOM* book may be borrowed for 
two weeks, with the privilege of renew- 
ing it once, A fine of five cents a day is 
incurred .by failure to return a book on 
the date when it is due. 

The Education Library is open from 
9 to 5 daily except Saturday when it 
closes at 12,30* 






This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 
to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 
to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 
are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other marginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 
publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing this resource, we have taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 

We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain from automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attribution The Google "watermark" you see on each file is essential for informing people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liability can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 



at |http : //books . google . com/ 



Mf 



r--^ r-v 



^',\'r,\j, r^. '.ri-'i^ti 



I 



5 SONS 
COOKER.Y 



DIET rOU \nV\TS 






s 




I 



6de^^ I (^6.iq.i%.t^^- 



V 



f^artoarli College iLibrars 




LIBRARY OF THE 

DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION 



BUREAU OF 
VOCATIONAL GUIDANCE 



3 2044 102 873 437 



LESSONS IN COOKERY 

DIET FOR ADULTS 



HOME ECONOMICS SERIES 



LESSONS IN COOKERY 



BOOK TWO 
DIET FOR ADULTS 



FRANCES ELIZABETH STEWART 

Iruirucior in Home Economics, Murray F. Ttdey High SchooU Chicago 




RAND McNALLY & COMPANY 

CHICAGO NEW YORK 



^Jl^^T C>G\^^\^,^c<^ 



y 



Copyright, IQ19, by 
Rand McNally & Company 



HAWVAHD UNIVERSITY 

DIVIBICN ^- L Ju A : .ON 
MIRBAU OF VOCA TiONAu CJiUl^AHtB 



f^ 



/^HARVARD , 
UWVERSITY 
V jJBRAR Y 




THE CONTENTS 

PAGB 

The Prefau ; vii 

PART I. INTRODUCTION 

Calorie Reqihrements of Adults 3 

General Factors Governing Energy, or Calorie, Requirements of Man ... 3 

Normal Adults: Food Requirements • . . . . 4 

The Very Active (Requiring Hearty, or Heavy, Diet) . 4 

The Less Active (Requiring Semi-hearty Diet) 5 

Inactive Healthy Persons (Requiring^ Light Diet) 5 

Foods for Hearty Diet 6 

General Information 7 

PART II. HEARTY DIET 

Sauteed Foods: 

Sauted Carbohydrate Foods • . . 13 

Sauted Protein Foods 17 

Saut6ed Fat Meats 20 

Meats: Tender Lean Cuts: 

Broiled Lean Meats 22 

Oven-roasted Meats and Poultry 26 

Boiled and Sinmiered Meats 34 

Flour Mixtures: 

Introduction 36 

Batters 42 

Breakfast Recipes 42 

Steamed Suet, or Plum, Puddings 50 

Cakes Containing Fat 52 

Doughs 64 

Cookies 64 

Baking-Powder Biscuits and Their Derivatives 66 

Fruit Desserts; Pudding Sauces 69 

Unleavened Breads 82 

Fruit Pies 84 

Fried Foods: 

Frying of Cooked Foods 88 

Frying of Uncooked Foods 91 

Candies 99 

v 



vi THE CONTENTS 

Dried, or Dehydrated, Poops: 

Classification 104 

Boiled Legumes 105 

Dried-Legume Soups 107 

Miscellaneous Dried-Food Recipes 110 

Coffee Ill 

Sandwiches 114 

PART III. LIGHT DIET 

Prxht Relishes 121 

Soups: 

Fruit Soups 125 

Hot Vegetable Soups 128 

Cold Meat Soups 130 

Protein-Food Dishes: 

Broiled Fish 134 

Savory Souffles 136 

Omelets 141 

Vegetables: 

Introduction 144 

Boiled, Steamed, and Baked Vegetables 147 

Sour-sweet Vegetables 151 

Fresh Vegetable Stews, or Chowders 153 

Salads and Salad Dressings: 

Introduction 155 

Appetizer Salads 160 

Carbohydrate-Food Salads 167 

Protein-Food Salads .174 

Complete-Dish Salads .177 

Cooked Salad Dressings 180 

Desserts: 

Popovers (Stuffed) and Cream Puffs 185 

Sponge and Angel Cakes 189 

Whips 194 

Water Ices 206 

Beverages 209 

THE APPENDIX 

Part A. Caloric Value of Foods 215 

Part B. Caloric Value of Specific Menus 218 

Part C. One-Hundred Calorie Portions 221 

Part D. Planning and Serving of Meals for the Normal Adult .... 225 



The Index 247 



THE PREFACE 

This volume, like the other volumes of the series, Food Economy, Diet for Chil- 
dren, and Diet for Invalids, is designed primarily for the high-school student of 
home economics. It covers a semester's work, containing forty cooking lessons, 
two for each week of the semester. No less time than two fifty-minute or two 
sixty-minute periods is recommended for each lesson. The lessons are planned 
according to foods in season from February to Jtme. The Appendix contains 
optional work, to be assigned at the discretion of the teacher as either recitation 
or home work. 

Diet for Adults, which is a consideration of the fuel value of foods, aims to make 
the calorie a term of practical meaning for the student and housekeeper. (It is well, 
however, to caution the reader that the calorie-idea in nutrition has its limitations, 
for diet cannot be measured in terms of calories only. The quantity and quality 
of protein and mineral salts, and the presence of certain accessory substances, 
such as vitamines, are just as essential as the fuel value. The fotirth book of 
this series includes a study of mineral salts, vitamines, and other essentials in a 
normal diet.) The book is divided into two main sections. Hearty Diet and Light 
Diet, the typical recipes and menus given being based on the approximate fuel 
values of the foods. A list of suggestions for definite lessons precedes each of the 
sections. The aim has been to include only such cooking lessons as illustrate the 
principles of heat units and energy values and thus encourage selective eating. 
Recipes are grouped according to caloric value. It is not imperative that the 
topics or the lessons be presented in the order given; season and market con- 
ditions often necessitate a change. The lessons in Dt>//(?r AdwZfe call for more 
expensive ingredients, on the whole, than the lessons in the other three books of 
the series. But the instructor may avoid too great an expense for the school by 
having the pupils bring from home many ingredients, such as left-over protein 
foods for use in salads and savory souffles. The author has found that the use 
of certain materials from home adds greatly to the pupils* interest in the lessons. 

The book presupposes little, if any, preliminary training in general science, 
but offers excellent opporttmity for correlating dietetics with such sciences as 
physics, chemistry, and bacteriology. It is in condensed and summarized form, 
permitting rapid reading, and has been kept as simple as possible. Some chart 
work is given, but almost no experimental work. The aim has been to give the 
recipes in a form that will develop initiative and responsibility in the pupil. The 
author hopes that the book, whether used in the school or in the home, will be an 
aid to that kind of teaching which helps the student to help herself. Attention 
is called to the fact that, from the viewpoint of development of skill in handwork, 
the recipes in this book are possibly more valuable than the recipes in the other 
three books of the series. 

vii 



Vlil THE PREFACE 

The author believes in individual rather than group work for the pupil. The 
cIelss recipes will be found helpful, especially to beginning teachers, and they 
may also have two uses in the home: as a trial, or test, recipe for the housewife 
and as a means of teaching a child of almost any age how to cook. Mother and 
daughter may work at the sam6 time with their respective large and small recipes. 

The lessons in the other three books of the series are also arranged in sequence 
according to season: Book One, September to February; Book Three, September 
to February; Book Four, February to June. The four books cover a two-year 
course. Each book is a unit in itself; therefore it is not essential to teach the 
entire series to a given class of pupils, although it is very desirable to do so. The 
series is recommended for use by either the younger or the older girls in high 
school. The author believes, however, that the more mature mind is better fitted 
for a study of dietetics. 

The recipes in the four books have been carefully tested. Bread and butter 
and relishes, unless specified, are understood in any menus given. 

Each of the four books is also published in the form of a loose-leaf "filler" 
suitable for class use. Loose-leaf books offer great fiexibility for the teacher 
and student, having already proved their value in the botanical and other high- 
school science laboratories. Such books form a framework for the teaching of 
any given course, and are time-savers, for the pupil is spared the mechanical 
copying of such material as charts and recipes. As a sheet is required for a lesson, 
it is removed from the filler and placed in an inexpensive notebook cover. A 
loose-leaf laboratory book is distinctly a pupiVs book, not a teacher's. Some 
scheme should be devised for keeping the recipe sheets clean during the lesson 
period; one way is to post a few extra copies on the wall of the laboratory. The 
loose-leaf plan allows the teacher to add experimental work if she thinks best, and 
it also allows space for additional recipes, motmted illustrations, or clippings from 
newspapers and magazines. 

It is hoped that all of the voltunes will prove useful to homekeepers. The 
bound "books may be preferred by housewives, the loose-leaf by school girls. 

The series is an outgrowth of a number of years', teaching experience in 
the Wendell Phillips and the Murray F. Tuley High Schools of Chicago. In 
addition, three years were spent by the author as critic teacher of grade cooking 
in the Chicago Normal School. 

The author wishes to acknowledge her indebtedness to Professor Mary D. 
Chambers, B.S., A.M., and Dr. A. D. Emmett for their valuable criticism of 
manuscript and proofs. Recognition is made of the training received at Pratt 
Institute. Finally, the author wishes to express gratitude to her pupils, whose 
industry and erithusiasm have given the impetus for the development of the series. 

F. E. S. 



PART I 

INTRODUCTION 



DIET FOR ADULTS 



CALORIE REQUIREMENTS OF ADULTS 



Throughout this book, which deals with the energy, or caloric, value of the diet 
of the normal adult, it is to be understood: (1) that the energy value of a food 
is dependent upon the quantity of fat, carbohydrate, and protein it contains; (2) 
that, in the combustion of these three nutrients under definitely controlled con- 
ditions, they furnish energy or heat as follows: 

1 gram of fat yields 9 calories 

. 1 gram of carbohydrate yields 4 calories 

1 gram of protein yields 4 calories 

and that in the human body they have in general the same relative values; (3) that 
the calorie as used here, designated as the great or large calorie, represents the 
quantity of heat required to raise the temperature of 1 kilogram of water 1° C, 
or of 4 pounds of water about 1° F. 

Energy manifests itself in the form either of heat or of work. In the case of 
the steam engine, for example, the fuel, or food, gives off heat upon combustion, 
and this in turn ultimately brings about motion and work. With man, the food 
constuned requires a certain amount of energy for its mastication, digestion, and 
assimilation; immediately, there is given up from the food energy, or calories, 
to warm the body, to assist in carrying out the various metabolic processes, and 
to aid in accomplishing work. 

GETXERAL FACTORS GOVERNING ENERGY, OR CALORIE, REQUIREMENTS 

OF MAN 

1. Muscular work done: In adult life this is the most important factor of all 
(see Note 4, page 6). 

2. Maintenance of body temperature or heat regulation: This is a vital factor. 

3. Age: Children while growing rapidly and during the adolescent period 
require more energy-giving foods in proportion to their weight than do adults. 
On the contrary, the aged require fewer energy-giving foods than other normal 
adults, partly because of their inactivity. 

4. Weight of individual. 
6. Extent of body surface. 

iThe following works have been used for reference in the preparation of pages 3-6: Carter, 
Howe, and Mason, Nutrition and Clinical Dietetics (1917); Hutchison, Food and the Principles 
of Dietetics (1917) ; Lusk, Science of Nutrition (3d ed., 1917) ; von Noorden, Metabolism and Prac- 
Heal Medicine^ Vol. I; Sherman, Chemistry of Food and Nutrition (1916). 

3 



4 LESSONS IN COOKERY 

6. Sex. 

7. Climate and seasons. 

8. Individual peculiarities. 

9. Condition of health. 

NORMAL ADULTS: FOOD REQUIREMENTS 

The following classification of normal adults is based upon the kind and quan- 
tity of muscular work done by the individual (see Note 1, page 5). 

7. The very active (requiring hearty, or heavy, diet) : 

1. Persons doing severe muscular work (and more or less brain work), 
(a) chiefly out of doors, (b) mainly indoors, such as: 

a. Outdoor life: 

Campers 

Explorers 

Farmers 

Firemen 

Foresters 

Hunters 

Ltmibermen 

Masons 

Men sawing wood 

Mountain-climbers 

Sailors 

Soldiers 

Street-cleaners 

b. Indoor life: 

Carpenters 

Carriage-makers 

Furniture-painters 

Laundresses 

Mechanics 

Metal workers 

Plimibers 

Pressmen 

Stokers 
2. Persons taking a great deal of muscular exercise, but chiefly in the form 
of recreation, such as golf or swimming. This group includes those 
doing hard brain work or otherwise leading a sedentary life during the 
work day, such as authors, editors, administrators, etc. This group of 
individuals cannot afford to take such rich food as those of Group 1. 
(Pies, doughnuts, gravies, fat meats, etc., may cause digestive disturb- 
ances in the case of these sedentary workers, whereas they usually will 
not do so in the case of persons doing severe muscular work.) 



DIET FOR ADULTS 5 

//. The less active (requiring semi-hearty diet) : 

1. Persons who are active, but prone to Uve chiefly indoors and to lead too 
sedentary a life. This type of person includes: 

Bookbinders 

Clerks 

Dressmakers, tailors, and milliners 

Executives 

Housemaids 

Professional men (doctors, lawyers, engineers, teachers) (see Note 5) 

Shoemakers 

Stenographers and bookkeepers 

Students 
The diet for this group should contain fewer rich foods and more bulky 
foods. 

2. Athletes in training. 

Ill, Inactive healthy persons (requiring light diet) : 

1. Most people in very hot weather. Stmimer vacation idlers should 
beware of too hearty a diet. 

2. Most people during the spring months, when with many there occurs 
a general letting down. 

3. Old persons, if feeble or inactive. 

4. Persons of overweight. 

The diets required for these four groups are similar, and in general they may 
be called light diets for inactive sedentary people. (Overweight is often due to a 
sedentary life.) Protein, as well as fats and carbohydrates, should be reduced in 
some of the light diets; for example, in diet for the aged. 

Notes: 

1. Average daily energy requirements for these three diets are as follows: 

CALORIES 

Hearty, or high calorie 3,300-5,400 

Semi-hearty, or medium-high calorie 2,700-3,400 

Light, or low calorie 2,445-2,700 

2. The estimate of the calories for the day is calculated from all the energy-giving foods, 
namely, fats, carbohydrates, and protein. In selecting the total food supply for the day, 
it is necessary to consider the following: 

a. Total calories (furnished by fats, carbohydrates, and protein) 

b. Percentage of total calories furnished by the protein (The general rule has 
been to provide enough protein in the normal diet to furnish 10-15 per cent 
of the total calories. Recent work seems to suggest that the lower value 
[about 10 per cent] provides enough protein if it is of the proper quality to 
furnish the essential amino-acids. If this deduction is justified, it involves 
an important economic factor, for protein foods are the most expensive ones 
we buy.) 



6 LESSONS IN COOKERY 

3. The quantities consumed in the three diets, hearty, semi-hearty, and light, usually 
. are somewhat larger in cold weather; the chief reasons are as follows: 

a. The person, as a rule, is more active. 

b. Radiation of body heat is often greater. 

4. In hot weather the amount of work done bears some relation to the food requirements. 
That is, if a person works as hard in summer as in winter, the energy requirements for 
the two seasons are about the same; but, on the other hand, the quantity of protein foods 
(meat, etc.) that can be consumed-to advantage in hot weather is less. 

5. It is not necessary for brain workers or other persons to lead a very sedentary life, 
since walking, golfing, skating, etc., are possible for most people. 

FOODS FOR HEARTY DIET 

The foods listed below are high in caloric value and are, as a rule, to be recom- 
mended for use in a hearty diet. The list applies in general to camp diet, but 
refers to any other hearty diet as well. 

7. Foods rich in carbohydrates: 

Limip and other sugar, sweet chocolate, lemonade, and candies 
Marmalades, jams, jellies, and similar sweets 
Fruits, especially the dried fruits 
Sirups, such as molasses 

77. Solid foods rich in one or more of the three foodstuffs, fat, carbohydrates, protein: 
Salt pork and other fat meats 
Pies and other pastry (see Note 1) 
Eggs, saut^ed and fried (see Note 2) 
Doughnuts, fritters, and other fried foods 
Cakes, with filling and frosting 
Puddings and sauces 
Griddlecakes 
Com-meal mixtures 
Cereals and cream 
Lean meats 

777. Liquid foods more or less rich in the three nutrients, fat, carbohydrates, protein: 

Milk 

Cream 

Nutritious soups (such as cream soups) 

Beverages, such as: , 

Chocolate and cocoa 

Coffee and tea (when served with sugar and cream) 
Nola: 

1. A rich pie is a concentrated food. It may be indigestible in the case of the inactive, 
sedentary person, but it may be a desirable food for the person leading an active out- 
door life. Pie and some other hearty foods are oftten very useful in the lunch box. 

2. Both saut6ed and fried eggs may be very wholesome for the camper, farmer, or other 
person leading an active outdoor life, but they are forbidden the child, and they may prove 
very difficult of digestion for the Sedentary adult. 



DIET FOR ADULTS 7 

GENERAL INFORMATION 
TABLE OF ABBREVIATIONS 

spk. » speck pkg. = package 

d. = drop h. == heaping 

ssp. = saltspoon b. p. = baking powder 

t. = teaspoon tt. = test-tube 

tb. = tablespoon " = inch 

c. = cup sec. = second 

pt. = pint min. = minute 

qt. = quart hr. = hour 

pk. = peck C. = calorie 

oz.= ounce °C.= degrees Centigrade 

lb. = pound **F. = degrees Fahrenheit 
/ denotes a fraction:. J^ c. = one-half cup 
- denotes gradation: 1-2 c. = 1 to 2 c. 

TABLE OF MEASURES 

dash = one sprinkle 2 c. butter =1 lb. 

4ssp. = l t. 4 c. fiour=l lb. 

3 t. = 1 tb. 2% c. granulated com meal = 1 lb. 
16 tb. = 1 c. 2 c. granulated sugar = 1 lb. 

1 c. = 2 gills 2% c. powdered sugar = 1 lb. 

2 c. = 1 pt. 1 square Baker's chocolate = 1 lb. 

4 c. = 1 qt. 8 eggs, with shells = 1 lb. 
1 egg =4 tb. 10 eggs, without shells = 1 lb. 

2 tb. butter = 1 oz. 1 pt. milk or water = 1 lb. 

Ipk. apples =123^ lb. 
1 pk. potatoes = 15 lb. 
Ipk. beets =15 lb. 
1 pk. onions = 14>^ lb. 
Ipk. carrots = 13 Ji lb. 
1 pk. turnips = 13^ lb. 
1 pk. sweet potatoes = 13^ lb. 
1 qt. string beans =Ji lb. 

TABLE OF OVEN TEMPERATURES* 
Oven ^'F. ®C. 

(Pupil to supply) 

Slow 250-350 

Moderate 350-400 

Hot, or "quick" 400-450 

Very hot 450-550 

^Technical Education Bulletin 22, Teachers College, Columbia University, "Some Attempts 
to Standardize Oven Temperatures for Cookery Processes," by Van Arsdale. 



LESSONS IN COOKERY 
TABLE OF TEMPERATURES 



Process 



Freezing of fruit ices (temperature of medium) 

Freezing of water 

Whipping of cream 

Butter-making 

Raising of bread (temperature of room) 

Cheese-making 

Coagulation of albumin 

Simmering of water 

Soft custids 

Double boiler, top part 

BoiHng water at sea level 

Jellies (boiling point of water, 212° F., or 100° C.) 

Sugar cookery (boiling point of water, 212° F., or 100° C.) 

Fondant. 

Fudge frosting, boiled 

1 egg white to 1 cup sugar 

2 egg whites to 1 cup sugar 

1 egg white to 1 cup dark brown sugar 

1 egg white to 5i cup dark brown sugar, Ji cup white . 

Roasting of meat : t 
Temperature of oven: 

First 16 minutes 

Remainder of time 

Temperature of meat interior: 

Rare done 

Mediimi 

Well done 

Deep-fat frying. Temperature of fat for: 

Uncooked foods 

Cooked foods 

Cold, wet, uncooked foods. . . 

Baking. Temperature of center of oven for: 

Sponge cakes 

i^gel-food cakes 

SoiSfl^s (surrounded by water) 

Bread 

Butter cakes: 

Loaf 

Layer 

Muffins 

Parkerhouse rolls 

Baked potatoes . 

Baking-powder biscuit 

Popovers 

Pastryt 



•C. 



23-18 


—5 to -8 


32 





37-50 


3-10 


60 


15-16 


79-104 


26-40 


98.6-140 


37-m 




(Depends upon acidity) 


133-160 


Begins 56 ; completes 71 


180-210 


82-99 


179-183 


82-84 


192-201 


89-94 


212 


100 


185 


103 


235 


113 


232 


111 


235-239 


113-115 


243 


117 


257 


125 


252 


122 


450 


250 


347 


175 


115.7-140 


46.5-60 


140-158 


60-70 


158-176 


70-80 


347-374 


175-190 


365-401 


185-205 


374-383 


190-195 


347-374 


175-190 


302-338 


150-170 


392 


200 


356-428 


180-220 


374 


190 


410 


210 


428-455 


220-235 


455 


235 


455 


235 


455-464 


235-240 


455-392 


235-200 


464 


240 



♦Adapted from University of Illinois Bulletin, Vol. XIV, No. 47, "Fats and Oils in Cookery. Cooking Tempera- 
tures," by Williams and Gray. 

tElizabeth Sprague and H. S. Grindley, "A Precise Method of Roasting Beef," University of Illinois Bulletin, 
Vol. IV, No. 19. 

^Elizabeth Sprague, "Studies of Methods in Pood Preparation," Journal of Home Economics, Vol. Ill, No. 5, 
page 446. 

Notes: 

1. Pupil to group baking and other temperatures under the headings slow, moderate, 
hot, and very hot. (See " Table of Oven Temperatures," page 7.) 

2. In which kind of an oven is the temperature more easily controlled, a gas or an 
electric oven? 



DIET FOR ADULTS 9 

BftETHODS OF COOKING 

(Applied to meats and other foods) 

Pupil to supply definitions in the right-hand column, after a study of cookbooks 
and dictionaries. 



Method 



Definition 



Baking 

Boiling 

Braising 

Broiling (pan). 
Broiling (grill). 
Casseroling . . . 
Fricasseeing... 

Frying 

Poaching 

Roasting 

Saut6ing 

Steaming 

Stewing 



Notes: 

1. Pupil to group the methods of cooking listed in the foregoing table according to the 
following headings: 



Heat Applied by 

Means of Hot Water 

OR Steam 



Heat Applied by 
Means of Hot Fat 



Heat Applied by 
Means of Heated Metal 
OR Other Utensil- 
Material 



Heat Applied Direct 
from the Free Flame 



Relate the above headings to the terms "cooking by moist heat" and "cooking by dry 
heat." 



10 



LESSONS IN COOKERY 



2. Pupil to group the methods of cooking according to the following headings (note 
that these headings deal with the various ways of transmitting heat) : 



Heat Secured Chiefly 
BY Convection Currents 



Heat Secured Chiefly 
BY Conduction 



Heat Secured Chiefly 
BY Radiation 



MISCELLANEOUS STATEMENTS 

1. Unless otherwise specified, all meastirements are level. AU leveling of 
ingredients in cups, spoons, etc., should be done with the flat side of a spatula or 
other knife, not the edge. Why.'* 

2. Possible reasons for discrepancies which may arise in the recipes are : 

a. Lack of standardization as to the size of spoons, measuring cups, 
etc. (Most saltspoons sold are not of standard size.) 

b. Varying degrees to which flour and other ingredients are packed 

3. Savory dishes, such as omelets, soufHfe, fritters, etc., are unsweetened 
dishes which, as a rule, contain a seasoning or relish in combination with some 
vegetable or protein material. 

4. A stiff white of egg is one that is beaten to the stage at which it will not 
fall from an inverted dish. A white of egg beaten with a wire beater is of coarser 
grain and is at least one-third greater in volume than a white beaten with a Dover 
beater. Caution: Never beat a white of egg so long that it curdles, or separates. 

5. In general, the term " fat '* as used in this book means butter or a substitute. 

6. In most cases the class recipe is placed at the left of the corresponding large 
recipe. 

7. As a rule, all class recipes should be cooked more quickly than the large 
recipes, proportionately speaking; otherwise they dry out. This applies particu- 
larly to the cooking of meats and to baking in general. 

8. Note directions for changing °C. to °F., and vice versa (parentheses are 
used in the secoad statement, but not in the first) : 

% (°P.-32)=°C. 

9. To the Teacher: Opportunity is given in this book for teaching the prin- 
ciples underlying the cooking of carbohydrates, fats, and proteins, such as: 



STARCH 


SUGAR 


FAT 


PROTEIN 


Vegetables 


Candies 


Fried foods 


Cheese 


Flour mixtures 


Frostings 


Sauted foods 


Eggs 
Fish 

Legumes 
Meat 



PART II 
HEARTY DIET 



SUGGESTIONS FOR LESSONS 

SAuxfED Foods 

1. Carbohydrate foods (such as corn-meal mush and potato balls) 

2. Protein foods (such as fish or liver) 

3. Fat meats (such as bacon, ham, or salt pork) 

Meats: Tender Lean Cuts 

4. Broiled steaks or chops 
6. Roast of beef. Franconia potatoes. Yorkshire pudding 

6. Stuffed roast poultry 

Flour Mixtures 

7. Griddlecakes (both sour- and sweet-milk). WaflBes } Thin batters 

8. One-egg muffins. Com bread 

9. Steamed suet puddings v ^ . , 
.« ^, . . r, . . ) Thick batters 

10. Plam cake and derivatives 

11. Rich cake. Boiled frosting 

12. Baking-powder biscuits (both roll and drop) j 

13. Simple fruit desserts derived from biscuit; Soft doughs 

dough (such as cobbler and shortcake) J 

14. Unleavened breads: Hard-tack bread and com dodgers ) « ._ , 
..«..., , X [ Stiflf doughs 

15. Fruit pie (such as apple) j 

Fried Foods 

16. Potato croquettes | Frying of cooked foods 

17. Doughnuts. Muffins 

18. French and Saratoga potatoes 

19. Timbale cases. Fritters: (a) Savory— such as parsnip; ) Frying of uncooked foods 

(b) sweetened — such as apple 

20. Protein foods: Fish, oysters, and cheese-balls 

Candies 

21. Fondant 

22. Fondant derivatives (such as chocolate creams and bonbons) 

Miscellaneous Foods 

23. Boiled dried beans. Soups from beans and other dried legumes 

24. Coffee. Sandwiches 



SAUTEED FOODS 
SAUTEED CARBOHYDRATE FOODS 

A camp lunch or supper 

Boiled fish Sauted com-meal mush 

Baking-powder biscuits Dried-fruit jelly 

Cookies Tea 



Any of the following foods, more or less rich in carbohydrate material, may be 
saut^ed (note use of left-overs) : 

/. Vegetables (see Note 3) : 

Balls or cakes made of potatoes or other starchy vegetables 
Sliced vegetables: 

Tomatoes (ripe or unripe) 

Cucumbers 

Onions 

Squash, summer 

Potatoes (white or sweet) 

Parsnips 

Carrots 
Vegetables cut in cubes: 

Lyonnaise potatoes 

Vegetable hash 

Celery 
II, Fruits: 

Apples 

Bananas (good with roast beef) • 

Pears 

///. Breakfast cereal: 

Com-meal mush 

Hominy 

Oatmeal 

Rice (balls or hash) 

IV, Flour mixtures (see Note 4) : 

Griddlecakes (see page 42) 
Green-corn patties (see page 45) 
Scones (see page 68) 

13 



14 LESSONS IN COOKERY 

Notes: 

1. In saut^ing any foods (see pages 13-21), apply the rules stated in Pood Economy, 
"Pan-Broiling and Saut^ing," page 63. 

2. Note that saut^ing is incorrectly called frying. 

3. Almost any vegetable (juicy or starchy, parboiled or not) may be either saut^ed or 
fried. 

4. If desired, omit Group IV from this outline, since, correctly speaking, flour mixtures 
are pan-broiled, not sauted. 

5. Lessons 1, 2, 3, 7, 8, 9, 12, 13, 14, 23, and 24, as suggested on page 12, may be used 
as a basis for a course in camp cooking. 

Sauteed Potato Balls or Cakes 

Method: 

1. Shape left-over, seasoned mashed potatoes into small, round, flat cakes. 

2. Place them in a hot saut^ing pan containing a very little hot bacon or other 
fat. 

3. Brown them on both sides, garnish with parsley, and serve. 

Notes: 

1. Do not turn the cakes until they are very brown on the under side. 

2. Avoid more than a small quantity of fat, else the cakes will fall to pieces; this is the 
secret of success with the recipe. 

3. If cakes are too soft to mold, add soft bread crumbs, not cracker crumbs or flour. - 
Cakes that are very moist will not brown. If crumbs are not added, the moisture may be 
evaporated. 

4. Left-over rice, hominy, oatmeal, etc., may be substituted for potato in this recipe. 
Mash the cooked cereals before using them. Such cereal cakes require bread or cracker 
crtunbs or flour to make them hold their shape; J^ c. flour to 3^ c. cereal is sometimes used. 

5. If preferred, mix the potato (or other starchy material) with any of the following 
ingredients before molding: 

Groimd meat or fish 

Gravy or dressing 

Rice or hominy 

Mashed turnip or other vegetable 

6. Sometimes it is well to bake potato and other starchy balls rather than to sautd 
them; dip them in buttered crtunbs before baking them. 

Sauteed Tomatoes 

Method: 

1. Wash and slice ripe or unripe tomatoes. 

2. Dip them in flour seasoned with salt and pepper (or dip them in egg and 
cracker crumbs, if desired). 

3. SsMti them in bacon fat or a substitute until they are tender and brown on 
both sides; a sprinkle of sugar aids in the browning. Avoid cooking them to 
pieces. 

4. Garnish with parsley, and with either of the following sauces, if desired: 

Brown sauce (brown the flour in pan in which tomatoes were cooked) 
Hot pepper sauce, thus making deviled tomatoes 



DIET FOR ADULTS 15 

Sauteed Onions 

Method: 

1. Add thinly sliced onions to very hot drippings, cover, and saut^ 4-6 min., 
or until onions are tender and golden brown. 

2. Serve with beefsteak or other meat. 

NoU: 

A good hash is made by saut^ing 1-3 min. a mixture of sauted onions and cooked rice. 

Sauteed Vegetable Slices 

Method: 

1. Cut left-over cooked potatoes, parsnips, etc., lengthwise in long slices 
]4:'-y2' thick. 

2. Brown them on both sides in a little bacon fat, and season well. Avoid 
much fat, else the slices will lose their shape. Cook them in a saut^ing pan or 
in the oven; it is often desirable to brown the slices in a pan with a roast of meat. 

Notts: 

1. If desired, dip the vegetable in an egg-and-milk mixture before saut^ing it. 

2. Glazed sweet potatoes are prepared as follows: 

a, Pai'boil sweet potatoes 10-20 min., pare, and cut them in half lengthwise. 
h. Place them in a buttered baking dish, and brush with a thick sirup made by 

boiling together a mixture of half as much brown sugar as water. 
c. Add bits of butter, and bake 15 min., or until potatoes are tender and brown. 

Baste often with sirup. 
Left-ovei cooked potatoes may be used. Glazed carrots and turnips are also good. 

Lyonnaise Potatoes 

Ingredients: 

2 c. raw or cold, cooked potato cubes (H'^-H'^) 

Salt and pepper 

1 tb. chopped onion 

1 tb. chopped celery 

1 tb. fat (such as bacon, fat salt-pork or other drippings, butter, etc.) 

Method: 

1. Brown together in a saut^ing pan the fat, onion, and celery. 

2. Add the other ingredients and stir them over fire until they are brown. 

Notes: 

1. If desired, add 1 tb. lemon juice and 1 tb. chopped parsley. 

2. An excellent vegetable hash is made by saut^ing together the following left-over 
cooked vegetables, chopped fine or cut in very small cubes: 

IJ^ c. potatoes J 

1/ 1.x x/ drained and dried thoroughly before being sauted 

y2 c. beets or carrots I & ^ & 

J^ c. cabbage ) 

Season well with onion or garlic salt, paprika, etc. 

A sprinkle of fiour is a good browning agent. 



16 LESSONS IN COOKERY 

Sauteed Apples 

MeihoH: 

1. Wash apples, core, and slice them. 

2. Place bacon fat or a substitute in a saut^ing pan, and when it is smoking 
hot add a single layer of apples. 

3. Cover apples, and when they are brown on one side turn and brown them 
on the other side; salt, and when the apples are about half done, add a little sugar 
as a browning agent. 

Sauteed Breakfast Cereal 

Method: 

1. As soon as breakfast is over, pack the hot left-over mush in greased molds, 
such as shallow bread pans or baking-powder cans. (Use a sample baking-powder 
can for a class recipe.) Cover and cool. 

2. When the mush is cold and set, turn it from the molds and cut it in J^*' 
slices. 

3. Dip each slice in flour, and saut6 it in bacon fat or any other butter sub- 
stitute until it is brown on both sides. 

4. Serve with butter or gravy as a potato substitute, or with sugar or a sirup 
(such as caramel, maple, com, or molasses) as a breakfast or luncheon dish. 

Noies: 

1. Any of the following ingredients may be stirred into the mush before it is molded: 

Grated cheese (very good with com meal) 
Beaten egg (an excellent binding agent) 
Salt pork or other meat, cooked and chopped 
Cracklings from tried-out fat 
Scrapple is the name applied to corn-meal mush containing salt pork or other meat. 

2. If the mush is very dry, it need not be dipped in flour. 

3. Slices of left-over cooked cereal are also good baked or fried; dip them in buttered 
crumbs before baking, and roll them in egg and then in dry crumbs before frying. Mush 
may be cut in cubes or other fancy forms for frying, or it may be molded in the hands into 
round, flat cakes. Scrapple is sauteed, fried, or broiled. 



SAUTEED PROTEIN FOODS 

A camp breakfast 

Oatmeal 
Sauted hash Potatoes boiled in jackets 

Toast Coffee 



The following foods, all of which are more or less rich in protein, may be saut^ed : 

Eggs Tripe 

Fish Meat or fish hash 

Oysters Beeves' or calves' hearts 

Chicken (young) (saut6 over a very low 

Rabbit and game birds flame) 

Liver Calves' brains 

Scallops Etc. 

Caution: Avoid proloijging a very high temperature with any protein food, 
else it is toughened. 

Sauteed Fish 

Method: 

1. "^ash fish, dry them, and, if fish are large, cut them in J^"'-5^"' slices, then 
prepare the slices in 3*' squares. 

2. Roll each small fish or slice of fish in a mixture of salt, pepper, and flour 
or com meal. 

3. Saut6 the whole or sliced fish in a very little bacon fat 6-10 min., or un^l 
they are tender and brown on both sides. Use a low or medium flame. (Why?) 

/Vo/es: 

If salted herring or other salted fish are used, remove the salt by soaking the fish in 
water, then proceed with the foregoing method. 

Sauteed Oysters 

Method: 

1. Drain oysters, wipe them with a dry towel, remove any shells, and add salt. 

2. Roll oysters in crumbs, then in raw egg (a slightly beaten egg to which 
1-2 tb. water has been added), then in crumbs. 

3. Place them in a saut^ing pan containing a little hot bacon fat, and cook at 
a low or medium temperature until crumbs are brown. Oysters require but a 
short period of cooking. 

4. Garnish with parsley and paprika. 

2 17 



18 LESSONS IN COOKERY 

Notes: 

1. Except in the case of the canned product, oysters are seldom adapted to use in camp 
life. 

2. Oysters may also be saut^ed as follows: 

a. Drain oysters, dry, and sprinkle them with pepper. 

b. Wrap each oyster in a thin slice of bacon and fasten with a toothpick. 

c. Place them in a moderately hot saut^ing pan, and cook just long enough to 
crisp and curl the bacon. 

d. Serve on hot buttered toast. 

3. To sauU scallops: Cover scallops with boiling water and let stand 5 min.; do not 
allow the water to boil. Drain the scallops, roll them in crumbs, egg, and crumbs, and 
saut^ imtil they are tender and brown. 



Sauteed Chick^Bn, Rabbit, or Small Game Birds 

Method: 

1. Wash a raw chicken, rabbit, or bird, and separate it at the joints so as to 
form small sections. 

2. Barely cover with salted water, and simmer until meat is tender. 

3. Remove meat from the broth, drain, and evaporate all moisture. 

4. Sprinkle with salt and pepper. 

6. Dip pieces first in flour or other starchy material, then in egg (a slightly 
beaten egg to which 1-2 tb. water has been added), and lastly in crumbs or other 
starchy material. 

6. Place pieces in a saut6ing pan containing a little hot lard or bacon or other 
drippings; bacon fat is perhaps the most desirable fat. (Why avoid butter?) 
Cover, and cook about 10 min., or until meat is a golden brown on all* sides; 
turn over the pieces every 2-3 min. 

7. Place them on a platter, add melted butter or a thickened gravy made 
from some of the broth, and garnish with parsley. 

Notes: 

1. Some cooks prefer the following method for chicken (note that steps 2 and 3 of the 
foregoing method are omitted) : 

a. Salt and flour pieces of raw chicken, and place them in a saut^ing pan con- 
taining about Ji lb. hot fat. 

h. Cover tight, and cook 40 min. over a medium flame, turning the chicken 
when it becomes very brown on the under side. 

c. Prepare a milk gravy from what is left in the pan. 
It is wiser not to turn the chicken more than once. 

2. Fried chicken or other meat is prepared by submitting the meat to steps 1-5, then 
browning it in deep fat instead of in the saut^ing pan. 

3. Sometimes the egg is omitted from the covering for either sautded or fried meat. 
In such a case only starchy material is used. This includes: 

Flour 

Com meal 

Bread or cracker crtunbs 



' DIET FOR ADULTS 19 

Sauteed Liver and Bacon 

Method: 

1. Cover calf's liver with cold water and let it stand 5 min.; cover beef liver 
with cold water and let it stand 1-2 hr. 

2. Drain, and remove any tough membrane or outer skin. 

3. Saut6 bacon and place it upon a hot platter. 

4. Salt and pepper thin slices of liver, then roll them in flour, com meal, or 
bread crumbs. (Why use starchy material?) 

6. Pour most of the fat from the bacon pan, turn gas low, add liver, cover, and 
cook 8 min., or until meat is tender; turn frequently. 

6. Place liver on platter with bacon, and garnish with parsley. 

Notes: 

1. Why not cook liver and bacon in the pan at the same time? Which requires the 
higher temperature? Why? Which requires the longer period of cooking? Why? 

2. Quote price per lb. of each of the following: 

Beef liver 

Calf's liver 

Bacon, choice cut 

Bacon or ham ends (very economical) 

3. Discuss the food value and digestibility of liver. 

4. Note various methods for keeping meat and other cooked foods warm (these methods 
are very important where gas is used) : 

In warming oven 

On asbestos mat, placed over simmerer 

Over hot water, as in a double boiler 

Etc. 

Sauteed Tripe 

Method: 

1. Cut boiled tripe in pieces 2" square. 

2. Rub pieces on both sides with salt, cayenne pepper, butter, and fine cracker 
crumbs. 

3. Saut6 them in fat until they are brown on both sides; butter is often used 
fdr the sake of its flavor. 

4. Serve with an onion cream sauce, or with slices of onion steamed and sea- 
soned with butter and salt. 

6. Garnish with strips of pimento. 

Note: 

Raw tripe is sold in two forms: 

Fresh (such as that used in tripe rolls, Food Economy, page 118) 
Pickled, that is, soaked in vinegar 



SAUTEED FAT MEATS 



A camp breakfast 



Farina or com meal with chopped figs 

Sauted ham Boiled potatoes 

Toast Coffee 



Sauteed Meat in Which Fat Predominates 

This method (often termed pan-broiling) is used for fat bacon, ham, salt pork, etc. 

Method: 

1. Remove rind, and slice meat very thin. 

2. Turning it often, cook the meat in a hot saut^ing pan imtil it is transparent 
and crisp and is beginning to brown on the edges. Just as soon as fat" flows from 
meat, pour it off into a cup; otherwise the fat may scorch and the meat thus become 
flavored with burned fat. Do not allow any meat, fat or lean, to stand in hot fat. 

3. Garnish with parsley, celery tips, or curled celery, and serve while it is hot. 

NoUa: 

1. The following is often a more desirable method for cooking fat meat: 

a. Lay the meat on a fine rack (such as an oyster broiler) set in a dripping pan. 

b. Cook the meat in a hot oven until it is transparent and crisp; turn meat when 
it is done on one side. 

2. Avoid an extremely high temperature with either of the methods for cooking fat 
meat. Note objections to too high a temperature: 

a. The fibers in the lean part of the meat may be toughened. 

b. Irritating substances may be formed (such irritants may be formed when 
bacon fat is heated to 350** F., or 176° C). 

If any of the following contingencies arise during the cooking of fat meat, they usually 
are signals that the temperature is too high: 

a. Burned fat is visible in pan. 

b. A volume of smoke fills the kitchen. 

c. The fat in the pan bursts into flames. 

3. Note advantages of the oven method: 

a. Temperature is lower ; hence irritating substances are not so likely to be formed . 

b. Because the meat is on a rack it does not stand in hot fat; therefore there is 
much less danger of its becoming impregnated with burned fat. 

4. Note two points in economy: 

a. Avoid cooking fat meat too long even at a medium temperature, for prac- 
tically all of the fat of the meat simmers out and is of no use except for 
the purposes discussed in 6, below. 

b. Use the fat poured from the pan for various purposes, such as the saut^ing 
of potatoes and other foods and the making of gravies. 

20 



DIET FOR ADULTS 21 

Note, however, that fat meat should be cooked long enough to soften any tough con- 
nective tissue present. Raw or rare fat meat is more difficult of mastication and of diges- 
tion than well-cooked fat meat. 

5. In case lean meat predominates in bacon, ham, etc., follow the rules for broiling 
steak and other lean meats (see page 22). 

Sauteed Bacon or Ham and Egg 

Method: 

1. Saut6 the bacon or ham, then remove it to a hot platter. 

2. Break an egg into a saucer and then slip it into the hot fat, being careful 
not to break the yolk. (Why use a saucer?) 

3. Cook the egg over a low flame until it is as hard as desired, constantly 
dipping the fat over the egg until the white forms a thick film over the yolk; ttim 
the egg, if desired. (Why avoid very hot fat?) Do not allow the egg to bubble 
or blister in cooking. 

4. Remove the egg to the platter by means of a skimmer. 

NoU§: 

1. An eg^ cooked in this way is incorrectly called a fried egg; an egg is really fried if 
the fat is deep enough i}/^" or deeper) to cover it. 

2. Keep the temperature of the fat low during either the saut^ing or the frying of an 
egg; the temperature of hot fat is very high and tends to make the egg leathery. The 
tougher an eggy the longer time it takes to be digested. 

3. Melted butter is a delicate and desirable fat in which to saut6 eggs; cover the pan 
and cook over a very low flame so as not to scorch the butter. 



Sauteed Fat Pork with Gravy 

Thin slices of salt pork, bacon, or ham, saut6ed until brown and crisp 

Gravy: 

2 tb. pork drippings 

1-2 tb. flour 

1 c. milk or water 



Ingredients: 

1 thin slice, 
1/^" square 

It. 
2tb. 

Method: 

1. Prepare gravy as follows: 

a. Add flour to fat, and brown the mixture. 

b. Add liquid gradually and stir over fire until gravy is creamy. 

2. Cut the sauteed meat into small pieces, or leave in slices. 

3. Cook the meat 3-5 min. in the gravy, then serve on toast. 

Notes: 

1. If they are very salty, it is desirable to soak any of these meats (salt pork, bacon, 
or ham) J^ hr. or longer in cold water before saut^ing them; or place the meats in cold 
water and bring to the boiling point. Dry the meats before saut^ing them. 

2. If preferred, roll the slices of fat meat in flour or com meal, then saut6 in fat. 



MEATS: TENDER LEAN CUTS' 
BROILED LEAN MEATS 



Dinner 

Beefsteak 

Peas 


Apple tapioca 


Baked potatoes 
Bread and butter 



GENERAL METHOD FOR BROILING 

This method applies to either of the types of broiling: broiling by direct heat (use of 
a grill, or rack) and pan-broiling. It is used with meat balls and fish, as well as with the 
cuts of meat listed in step 1. 

1. Cut off excess fat and all jagged edges from any of the following lean t Ader 
cuts of meat: 

Chops Steaks (beef, veal, etc.) 

Ham, lean Pork tenderloin 

Liver Etc. 

2. Clean steaks, etc., by wiping them with a damp cloth. As a rule, do not 
wash them. (Why?) 

3. Sear meat on both sides with intense heat ; this process requires a few seconds 
only. The results- of this initial high temperature are as follows : 

a. Flavor is developed. (Compare the flavor of broiled steak with that 
of boiled or steamed steak. Define extractives.) 

b. Juices are retained. (The meat is seared in order that it may cook 
in its own juices; thus the.meat is really cooked by moist heat.) 

4. Cook at a slightly lower temperature for the remainder of time, and turn 
meat often. At a certain point in the cooking the meat is puffy and juicy, but 
if cooked beyond this point it becomes hard, flat, and unpalatable. 

6. Place meat on a hot platter and add salt, pepper, and butter. 

6. If a platter gravy is desired, make it as follows: 

a. Pour fat from pan, and set it aside for saut^ing purposes. 

b. Add a little boiling water to the pan and stir well so as to dissolve 
all the juices; if necessary, boil 2-3 min. 

7. Garnish with any of the following: 

Slices of lemon Cress 

Sprigs of parsley Celery tips 

Finely ground parsley Etc. 

1 Both tough and tender cuts of meat are of high caloric value, but since the tough cuts are 
discussed in detail in Food Economy ^ the tender cuts only are considered in this book. 

22 



DIET FOR ADULTS 23 

Notes: 

1. Roasting is the cooking of larger pieces of meat and follows the same rule as to an 
initial high temperature followed by a lower temperature. 

2. A fork is perhaps the best "grill" for use by each pupil. 

3. Avoid many fork holes in meat during cooking; otherwise the juice escapes. 

4. Meat should never stand in hot fat. Observe the following points: 

Pan-broiling: As fat flows from steaks, etc., it should be poured off into a jar. 

Grill-broiling: The rack elevates the meat from the drippings in the pan. 
Hence, because of the rack,' grill-boiling is a better method than pan-broiling, where the 
saut^ing pan is used. 

Note disadvantages arising from allowing chops, steaks, etc., to stand in hot fat: 

a. The fat is likely to scorch, and so the meat may become impregnated with 
unwholesome products of burned fat which may irritate the digestive organs. 

b. Fat reaches a very high temperature and toughens the meat proteins. 

5. In order that a crust which will prevent the escape of juices may be formed, fish, 
chops, cutlets, etc., are often rolled in egg, then in com meal, crumbs, or other starchy 
material. A roast is dredged with flour for the same reason. 

Both veal and pork, to be wholesome, require especially thorough cooking. Grill- and 
pan-broiling are good methods with both these meats, but many cooks prefer to bread 
veal chops or steaks and then saut^, bake, or fry them. See the following recipe. . 

Breaded Veal Chops or Cutlets 

Method: 

1. Wipe meat with a damp cloth, then sprinkle with salt and pepper. 

2. Dip meat first in crumbs, then in raw egg (a slightly beaten egg to which 
1-2 tb. water has been added), and lastly in crumbs again. 

3. Cook until meat is tender and well done, using any one of the following 
methods: 

SauU: Cover meat during the latter part of the cooking and reduce 

the temperature. 
Bake: Saut6 meat until it is brown, then add a little water or milk, 

cover, and bake until meat is tender. 
Fry: Cook meat 4-6 tnin. in deep fat; the fat should be suflSciently 

hot to brown a cube of bread in 60 sec. For frying, meat may be 

dipped in batter instead of egg and crumbs, if preferred. 

Noies: 

1. Why is frying usually considered the least desirable method of cooking meat or any 
other protein food? 

2. Cutlets are the round steaks of the veal animal. Chops are incorrectly called 
cutlets. 

3. Veal is deficient in flavor, but is popular because of its delicacy of taste. It is neces- 
sary to supply flavor to veal by such additions as the following: 

Crumbs for browning the surface of meat (see breaded veal) 

Pork (especially good) 

Vegetables: 

Spinach 

Almost any young vegetable, such as carrots 



24 



LESSONS IN COOKERY 



Sauces: 

Tomato sauce 

Brown sauce 

Mild horse-radish sauce (made by using liquid from bottled horse-radish 

in place of milk in white sauce) 
Flemish sauce (a brown sauce with a meat-stock basis and the addition of 
horse-radish, parsley, pickles, and carrots) 



MEAT EXPERIMENT: COOKING OF TENDER OR SEMI-TENDER CUTS i 

Prepare five small pieces of equal size of raw round steak. Cook as follows, 
then compare as to toughness, retention of juices, etc. 



Procbss 



Observation and Infbrbncb 



PRINCIPLES OF ROASTING 

Prepare a miniature roast as follows: 
a. Dredge one of the five pieces with salt, pepper, and 



flour. 



b. Place it in a mufiin pan and sear in a hot oven 

c. Add 1 1. water and J^ t. fat, cover with a small pie 
tin, and bake until meat is tender. Baste often. 
(Give reason.) 



d. Place meat on platter 

e. Place pan over flatne and make a gravy by adding 
a paste composed of Ji t. flour and 1 1. cold water. 
Stir 2 min. over a direct flame 



PRINCIPLES OF BROILING 

1. Hold a piece of meat near the gas or red-hot coals for 
2 min., turning it often 

2. Hold a second piece near the flame for 2 min. without 
turning it 

3. Hold a third piece near the flame for a few seconds 
only, turning it twice. Remove it 2-3 inches from 
flame and cook 2 min. longer, turning it often 

4. Pan-broil a fourth piece, using a high temperature at 
first and then a low, the same as in the preceding step 



Notes: 

1. Prepare the roast first, as it requires the longer period of time for cooking. 
Each of the five pieces need be no larger than a 5^*'-!'' cube, although, except from the 
standpoint of cost, a larger size is desirable; shears are useful in cutting the meat. 

1 If the school appropriation is sufl&ciently large, this experiment should be supplemented by 
a demonstration of the cooking of a family roast and steak. 



DIET FOR ADULTS 25 

The meat from this experiment may be utilized later in stew, if desired. 
A good way to measure a minute of time is to count 60 rather slowly. 

2. Which of the steak methods are correct? Which are incorrect? Why? What 
general rule as to temperature may be given for all protein foods? 

3. What are the main objects in the cooking of tender meats? in the cooking of tough 
meats? 

4. Note the important principle in cooking that high temperature is necessary for the 
development of high flavor. Thus we submit steaks and roasts to a high temperature in 
the very beginning. Why only in the beginning? 

5. The tender or semi-tender cuts are those which, as a rule, do not require the addition 
of water in cooking. 



OVEN-ROASTED MEATS AND POULTRY 

Dinner 

Roast of beef Yorkshire pudding 

Franconia potatoes Succotash 

Raspberry sherbet 



GENERAL METHOD FOR OVEN-ROASTED, OR BAKED, MEAT 

1. Wipe any of the following meats with a damp cloth (make an exception of 
poultry or game by washing it in water) : 

Beef cuts, such as: 

Ribs, standing 

Ribs, boned and rolled 

Loin 
Mutton, lamb, pork, and veal cuts 
Poultry and game (for specific directions, see pages 30-33) 

Do not cut off any fat. 

2. Rub or dredge meat with salt and pepper. 

3. Dredge it with flour (the flour becomes sticky and catches the juice which 
the salt tends to extract). 

4. Place meat on a rack in a dripping pan with the fat portion of the roast 
uppermost (so that basting will be automatic; see Note 4). If the meat is very 
lean, fasten a piece of kidney suet or meat trimmings to the top surface; it is 
essential that this be done. 

6. Place roast in a very hot oven, 482*^ F., or 250° C, for 15-20 min.; do not 
cover roast. Expose as much as possible of the cut surface of the meat to this 
searing process. 

6. Reduce the temperature to 347*^ F., or 175*^ C, and keep this temperature 
for the remainder of time; keep the pan covered tight. (See Note 4.) 

7. Place roast on a hot platter, remove string and skewers, and garnish with' 
any of the following: 

Parsley 
Cress 

Croquettes 
Yorkshire pudding 
Franconia potatoes 
Vegetable timbales 

8. Make a gravy. 

Notes: 

A loss of flavor and nutriment results if bones are removed before meat is cooked. 

26 



DIET FOR ADULTS 27 

2. Salt and flour are not added to steaks before they are broiled. Neither is it necessary 
to add salt and flour to roasts before they are cooked (see steps 2 and 3). However, if the 
salt (and the accompanying flour) is added in the beginning rather than at the end of cook- 
ing, a roast is doubtless better seasoned, especially if it is a large one. 

3. The rack is essential, for meat is toughened by standing in hot fat. 

4. Basting of meat is essential in order that the juices may not evaporate and the meat 
thus be made tough. Moist heat is the secret of good cooking of all meats, tough or tender. 
The surface of a roast must be kept smeared with hot fat. 

Note two important points to be remembered in regard to basting (see step 4): 

a. Basting should be ^.titomatic. The cook should see that plenty of fat is 
placed on top of the roast before it is put into the oven. This fat melts 
and is kept flowing over the entire roast for the full time of roasting. No 
basting with the spoon is necessary if the pan is kept covered tight. Fat 
renders spoon basting unnecessary. With the ideal roast, no water is added 
to the pan. 

b. Spoon basting is necessary under any of the following conditions: 

if no fat is placed on the roast in the beginning; 
if pan is not covered all the time; 
if fat is all collected in the bottom of the pan. 
If spoon basting must be done, use melted fat with the addition of only a very 
small quantity of water. A small roast requires more frequent basting than 
a large one because there is less juice in the small one and more surface, in 
proportion, for evaporation of juice. 
6. "The roasting of meat is best accomplished by first searing over the meat at a high 
temperature and thereby retaining the juices. Also, the rich brown of meat which gives 
so desirable a flavor is not obtained below 249® C. [480° F.]. After this brown coating is 
obtained, however, the temperature is reduced, as high heat continued for any considerable 
length of time toughens the protein of the meat and causes it to become dry. The old-time 
method of determining the length of time for a roast to cook, by allowing so many minutes 
to the potmd, is not exact because the shape of roasts varies. A small chemical thermometer 
inserted in the roast does, however, tell exactly the condition of the meat and makes it 
possible to have a roast of any size or shape exactly as desired."^ 

For thermometer tests for the center of a roast, see "Table of Temperatures," page 8. 
The average inner temperature for the cooking of all roasts is 149°-150° F., or 65® C. 
All red color is gone when the roast is well done. 

The old-time method is to allow 15-30 min. to each pound of meat, depending upon the 
shape of the cut and whether rare, meditmi, or well-done meat is desired. 

6. Some authorities give 374®--383® F., or 190°-195® C, rather than 347® F., or 175® C, 
as the desirable temperature for the oven. But Sprague and Grindley^ have found that 
the meats are as quickly cooked at 175® C. as at 195® C, and that less fuel is required. 

Sprague and Grindley state also "that the lower the temperature of cooking, the more 
uniform is the condition of the interior of the meat."' 

^University of lUinois Bulletin, "Fats and Oils in Cookery. Cooking Temperatures," by 
Williams and Gray, page 19. 

^University of Illinois Bulletin, "A Precise Method of Roasting Beef," by Sprague and 
Grindley, page 37. 

Ubid. 



28 LESSONS IN COOKERY 

7. Note two good methods for class work: 

a. Each group of girls prepares a roll-roast from a loin or rib chop of mutton or 
lamb. Bake each roll in an individual oven in a 6" cake tin covered with a 
second G*' cake tin. Allow one skewer, cut in halves by the butcher, for each 
chop. Bake Yorkshire pudding in the same pan, if desired, also a Franconia 
potato. Make gravy the last thing. 

b. Cut a very thick steak into cubes. Each pupil bakes one cube in a covered 
muffin pan (see experiment on page 24). If the class period is very short, 
transfer the meat and potatoes to a saut^ing pan just before the end of the 
hour and cook them until they are tender and brown. 

A rolled chop is excellent for a broiling lesson as well as for a roasting lesson. 

8. The method for baked fish is very similar to that for baked, or roasted, meat. 

9. Potatoes, carrots, celery, and other vegetables may be added to the meat or fish 
baking pan; note the following recipe for potatoes. 

Franconia Potatoes 

Method: 

1. Pare white or sweet potatoes, parboil 10 min. in water to cover, then drain. 

2. Bake 45 min., or until they are tender and brown, in the pan in which meat 
is roasting; baste often with fat and juice found in the bottom of the pan. 

Note: 

If Franconia potatoes are basted with fat and juice from the roasting pan, they may 
be baked in a pan other than the roasting pan. 

Gravy 

Ingredients: 

1-2 tb. meat fat and juice left in the roasting pan (see Note 1) 
1 c. hot water or milk 
Thickening paste: 

1-2K tb. flour 

1-2J^ tb. tepid or cold water (see Note 2) 
Seasonings to taste (salt, pepper, etc.) 

Method: 

1. Add the hot water or milk to the fat and juice in the roasting pan and boil 
the mixture 2-3 min. 

2. Add the flour paste, and stir 3-5 min. over fire, or until gravy is smooth 
and thick. 

3. Season, and strain if necessary. 

Notes: 

1. Any fat left in the roasting pan, except the small quantity required for the gravy, 
should be poured into a jar and be kept for sauteing purposes. 

2. Tepid water has a slight advantage over cold water in the mixing of the paste in that 
it blends more quickly with the flour. 



DIET FOR ADULTS 29 

3. Another good method for gravy is as follows: 

a. Add dry flour to the fat and juice in the roasting pan and stir over fire until 
mixture is brown. 

b. Slowly add the hot water or milk and stir until gravy is creamy. 

c. Season, and strain if necessary. 

4. The following methods may be used singly or in any combination for securing a brown 
color in gravy: 

a. Brown flour by itself. 

b. Brown flour with the meat fat and juice (see Note 3). 

c. Add extract of beef (for flavoring effect; see Note 5). 

d. Add caramel. 

5. Do not make more than 2 c. gravy from the escaped juices of a 4-lb. roast (unless 
extract of beef is added), else the gravy will be poor in flavor. 

6. After pan-broiling of steaks, chops, etc., a little platter gravy is often made by dis- 
solving the juices left in the pan in a little boiling water. Is platter gravy ever made from 
roasts? 

Yorkshire Pudding 

{A light batter similar to popovers) 



Ingredients: 




Itb. 


1 c. bread flour 


dash 


1 1. salt 


Itb. 


2 0. milk 


Mtb. 


3 eggs, beaten light 



Method: 

1. Add the dry to the wet ingredients, and beat until mixture is smooth. 

2. About 45 min. before a roast of beef is done, pour the batter into the grease 
in the bottom of the roasting pan (the roast is on a rack, and so does not touch 
the pudding). 

3. Bake the pudding and the roast 45 min., having the oven very hot until 
the pudding "pops" or ptiffs, then meditim for the remainder of the time. (Com- 
pare with the baking of popovers, page 185; study steam expansion.) 

4. Cut pudding in squares and serve with the roast beef. 

Notes: 

1. Very little, if any, gravy for potatoes, etc., is available when the pudding is cooked 
in this manner. 

2. The pudding may be baked in either of the following ways: 

a. Bake in hissing-hot gem pans (iron ones are good). Place gem pans on a pie 
tin so as to protect oven from grease, and baste pudding often with drippings 
from roasting pan. 

b. Cover bottom of any hot pan with melted fat from roast of beef, and add 
pudding mixture to J^" thickness; baste the pudding with drippings from the 
roasting pan. 

3. Roast beef with Yorkshire pudding is especially popular among the English. 



30 ^ LESSONS IN COOKERY 

GENERAL METHOD FOR POULTRY 

The following directions for dressing, stuffing, trussing, roasting, and carving a chicken 
also apply to all other poultry and birds, such as: 
Duck 
Goose 
Turkey 
Quail 
Squab 

To Dress a Chicken 

Method: 

1. Remove feathers and pin-feathers after immersing the chicken for a minute 
in boiling water. 

2. Singe in the following manner: Holding bird by the head and feet, suspend 
it over flames of gas, burning paper, or alcohol. Expose all sides to the flames, 
being careful not to smoke the bird. 

3. Remove head and feet, then wipe the body with a damp cloth. 

4. Cut skin down the back of neck, then turn skin back over the breast and 
remove crop and windpipe. Cut oflE neck where it joins the body, but do not 
remove the skin. 

6. Make a small incision lengthwise from vent under the tail. Insert fingers 
as far into the opening as possible, and loosen membrane which lies close to the 
body. Loosen the membrane at the neck end in the same manner. 

6. Reaching in with the fingers as far as possible, take hold of the gizzard, 
and draw it out gently from the tail end; with the gizzard will come all the internal 
organs except the lungs and kidneys. 

7. Remove lungs and kidneys. (Lungs are imbedded in the ribs, and kidneys 
lie dose to the backbone. The lungs are sometimes left in the chicken, but this 
is a questionable practice, as they are often infected.) 

8. Being very careful, cut gall bladder from right side of liver. Remove any- 
green portion from liver. 

9. Prepare the giblets (heart, liver, and gizzard) by removing all membranes, 
arteries, veins, and blood. 

10. Remove oil bag from above tail by cutting out a small, wedgelike piece 
crosswise of the tail. 

11. Wash the chicken inside and out in several changes of cold water. 

TVofe: 

Tendons are sometimes removed as follows: 

a. Break each leg at the first joint. 

b. Twist leg until the tendons are exposed, then loosen the tendons with a fork 
or skewer and pull them out with the fingers; pull toward the foot, using a 
skewer as a lever. 

c. Remove foot with tendons attached to it. 



DIET FOR ADULTS 31 

To Stuff a Chicken 

Method: 

1. Wash a dressed chicken inside and out, and dry it. 

2. Fill the cavity from vent to neck with stuffing. A mixture of the following 
ingredients is sufficient for a 3-lb. chicken : 

2 c. stale bread (measured after being cut into ^4" cubes or broken into coarse 

crumbs) 
Ji c. butter or a substitute (such as chicken or goose fat), melted 
1-2 t. chopped onion 

}/s t. each of simmier savory, thyme, sage, and sweet marjoram 
Salt and pepper to taste 

3. Sew up the incision near vent by means of the shoe-lacing stitch. 

Notes: 

1. If the stuffing is exceedingly dry, add a very little cold water, but note that the secret 
of successful stufl&ng is sufficient fat and little or no water: 

Cnunbs + f at = a tender stuffing 

Cnunbs + water = a tough stuffing 
The more fat and the less water used, the less economical is the stuffing. 
Do not mash the bread cnunbs; a coarse, semi-dry stuffing is desirable, not a soggy one. 
Note possible additions: 

Egg (one), well beaten 

Mashed chestnuts 

Saut^ed sausage 

Raw apple, chopped (good with duck) 

Raw oysters (omit the herbs and onion if oysters are used) 

Chopped mushrooms (canned) 

Chopped parsley 

Black currants or raisins 

Black or English walnuts, chopped (good with turkey) 
If stuffing for fish is desired, omit the herbs and add capers and chopped pickles. 

2. A potato stuffing also is good with duck, goose, or fish; mash potatoes and season 
highly with onion, sage, etc. A rice stufiing is sometimes used. 

To Truss a Chicken 

Method: 

1. Draw thighs close to the body. Draw legs close to the tail and tie at the 
ends. 

2. Insert a skewer into the fleshy part of first joint, and pass it through the 
body under the end of the breastbone and out through the corresponding part 
of the leg on the other side. 

3. Turn skin of neck down smooth on the back. Press wings close to the body. 
Fold pinions across the back in such a way as to hold down the skin of the neck. 

4. Pass a skewer through the wing, back, and out through the other wing. 



32 LESSONS IN COOKERY 

Notes: 

1. As a rule this method cannot be used with goose, inasmuch as two of the three wing 
joints are usually removed and cooked with the giblets, and the remaining joint is not strong 
enough to hold a skewer. 

2. For excellent photographs of a trussed fowl, see Carlotta C. Greer, A Text-Book of 
Cooking, page 281. 



To Roast (Bake) a Chicken 

Method: 

1. Place a stuffed and trussed chicken on its back in a dripping pan and rub 
the entire surface with salt. 

2. Sear 10 min. in a hot oven, then reduce heat, and baste. Continue basting 
every 10 min. until chicken is done, using the following mixture: 

>i c. butter 
% c. boiling water 
Turn chicken frequently in order that it may brown evenly. 
Caution: Do not cover the pan at any time, since the secret of fine flavor in 
the chicken is thorough ventilation. 

Notes: 

1. This method (rules as to temperature, etc.) for chicken, turkey, etc., differs in the 
following particulars from the method for roasting beef and other meats: 

Pan is not covered. 
Basting is essential. 

2. When the breast meat is tender, the bird is done. A 4-lb. chicken requires about 
IHhr. 

3. Strips of bacon or thin sheets of fat salt pork are often laid over chicken, or butter 
is rubbed on before the chicken is put into the oven to roast. 

4. The neck and the giblets may be roasted with the chicken, or they may be stewed 
by themselves and then used in making the gravy. 

To Carve a Cooked Chicken 

Method: 

1. Place the chicken on the table with the neck to the left of the carver (so that 
the stuffing can be removed easily from the right). 

2. Thrust the carving fork into the breast directly through the breastbone. 
(The fork is not removed until the carving is completed.) 

3. Cut off the wings. 

4. Cut off the legs, and disjoint each into drumstick and second joint. 
6. Cut off the wishbone, with its meat, from the breast. 

6. From each side of the chicken cut off the flat side bone (shoulder blade), 
beside which lies ,the wishbone. Put point of knife under one end of the side 
bone, then, using the knife as a lever, cut out the rest of the bone. 



DIET FOR ADULTS 33 

7. Cut down through ribs on each side (slanting cut), then break the breast 
from the back. 

8. Cut breast in lengthwise halves, if desired, holding the knife parallel to the 
breastbone. The breast may be prepared in thin slices cut crosswise of the grain. 

9. Using force with the knife, cut the back in halves crosswise. 

Noia: 

1. No mention of the neck is made, since a properly dressed chicken has no neck. (In 
carving a chicken from which the neck has not been removed, it is optional whether the 
neck is left attached to the back.) 

2. The removal of the flat side bone is the most difficult cut in the carving process. 
The bone is about 33^" long and 2*^ wide, and has very little meat on it. 

3. In some cases it is desirable to separate each wing at the middle joint. 

4. As a rule, 10-12 pieces of chicken result from the carving process. 

5. A general rule in carving a chicken is to follow the joints. 

6. A raw chicken (for frying, stewing, etc.) is carved in exactly the $ame way as a cooked 
chicken; note, however, that a cleaver is often useful in steps 8 and 9, inasmuch as it 
requires more efiEort to carve a raw than a cooked chicken. 



BOILED AND SIMMERED MEATS 

Dinner 

Boiled leg of lamb French fried potatoes 

Stewed tomatoes Bread and butter 

Orange custard 



Boiled Meat 

Method: 

1. Wipe a tender cut of meat, such as leg of lamb, with a damp cloth. 

2. Plunge the meat into boiling water barely deep enough to cov^r the meat, 
and boil it 1-3 hr., or until the meat is tender. Do not allow the water to boil so 
violently that the meat is ruptured. Add salt when the meat is about half cooked. 
Noie: 

A leg of lamb weighs 8-12 lb.; allow 15-20 min. boiHng to every pound. 

Simmered Meat^ 
Method: 

X. Wipe a tough or semi-tough cut of meat with a damp cloth. 

2. Plunge the meat into boiUng water barely deep enough to cover the meat, 
and boil 6-10 min. (see Notes 1 and 2). 

3. Reduce temperature to 176°-185° P., or 80°-85° C, and keep it at this 
simmering point 2-8 hr., or until meat is tender. Add salt when the meat is about 
half cooked. (The small gas flame called the simmerer will be useful, as will 
also a perforated cover with a thermometer inserted to extend into the water.) 

NoUs: 

1. The meat is boiled 5-10 min. partly for the reason that high temperature develops 
the flavor of meat (high temperature develops the flavor of foods in general), and also to 
form an outer coating of coagulated protein, the purpose of which is to help retain the juices. 

2. One of the chief objects in this recipe is the retention within the meat of as much 
of the juice as possible; therefore whenever the meat is to be served cold, allow it to cool 
in the broth. 

As regards loss of nutritive juices, the initial temperature of water makes very little 
difference; meat may be placed in either hot or cold water at the start. « "Grindley has 
shown that when meat is cooked in water at 80°-85** C. [176**-185** P.], it matters little 

1 This recipe is placed in this book for reasons of comparison with the recipe for boiled 
meat. It rightfully belongs with the work on tough meats, Food Economy, pages 105-140. 

^Bulletin HI, Office of Experiment Stations, U.S. Department of Agriculture, "Losses in 
Cooking Meat," by Grindley and Mojonnier. 

34 



DIET FOR ADULTS 35 

whether it be first placed in hot or cold water, thvis shattering a widespread belief that it 
is essential to plunge it at once into boiling water if we desire to prevent the escape of its 
nutritive juices."^ 

Note the following summary regarding loss of juices. Apply these principles to meat 
stews, soups, etc., as well as to simmered meat. 

a. The initial temperature of the water has very little effect upon the quantity 
of juice lost. 

b. The smaller the pieces of meat, the more juice will escape from the meat. 

c. The fatter the meat, the less the loss of juice. 

d. The longer the period of cooking, the greater the loss of juice. 

3. Since the water in which the meat has been cooked contains considerable flavoring 
and some nutritive material, it shotdd be utilized in making soups and sauces. 

4. Serve simmered beef with horse-radish sauce. 



ACCOMPANIMENTS OF MEAT AND FISH 

Pupil to specify in the following table the various sauces, vegetables, and 
relishes especially suitable for serving. with various meats and fish. Include uses 
of the following sauces, many of which are white-sauce derivatives: 

Brown gravy Maitre dli6tel butter 

Brown mushroom Mint 

Caper Onion (such as Soubise) 

Cucumber Sour-sweet 

Currant-jelly Tomato 

Drawn butter White 

Egg Etc. 

Specify cuts of meat and method of cooking, if desired. 

Study standard cookbooks, such as Practical Cooking and Serving by Hill. 



Meat 


Sauce 


Vegetable 


Reush 
(Such as jelly, pickle, etc.) 


Lamb 








Mutton 








Veal 








Beef 








Pork 






- 


Chicken 








Duck 








Goose 








Fish 








Lobster 

















1 Bryce, Modern Theories of Diet, page 275. 



FLOUR MIXTURES 
INTRODUCTION 

CLASSIFICATION 

This classification is made on the basis of the proportions of flour and wetting . 
used in flotir mixtures. As a rule, the given ratios, 1:1, 2:1, etc., are simply 
approximate; that is, the proportions in most of the flour mixtures listed are a 
little over or under these ratios. 

/. Batters (baked, saut^ed, fried, steamed) : 

1. Thin batters, 1 : 1 (equal parts of flour and wetting) : 

Fritters (some kinds) 

Griddlecakes 

Popovers 

Waffles 

Etc. 

2. Thick, or drop, batters, 2:1 (twice as much flotir as wetting): 

Cakes (most) 

Fritters (some kinds) 

Muffins 

Patties, green-corn 

Puddings (certain baked and steamed ones) 

Breads: 

Certain steamed breads (such as Boston brown) 

Certain baked breads (such as graham) 
Bread sponge (a batter containing yeast) 
Etc. 

//. Daughs (baked or fried) : 

1. Soft doughs, 3:1 (three times as much flour as wetting): 

Most cookies Some steamed puddings 

Most biscuits Brioche 

Most breads Strudel 

Some cakes Etc. 

2. Stiff doughs, 4:1 (four times as much flour as wetting) : 



Biscuits, beaten 


Gingersnaps 


Breads (some) 


Pie crust 


Crackers 


Puff paste 


Flour pastes (noodles, etc.) 


Etc. 



36 



DIET FOR ADULTS 



37 



Notes: 

1. The following facts are helpful guides for the housekeeper: 

Thin batters pour easily and in a stream. 
Thick batters drop from the spoon. 
Soft doughs are of good consistency for kneading. 
Stiff doughs are not very easily kneaded. They are easily rolled thin. 
Batters are not stiff enough to handle; doughs are stiff enough to handle and to 
knead on a board. 

2. Batters and doughs are mixtures of flour and wetting, usually combined with other 
ingredients, such as sugar, salt, etc. Any fat present is alwa3rs considered part of the 
wetting. Note the following summary as to average proportions of flour and wetting in 
batters and doughs: 



Flour Mixture 



Wetting 




Thin, or pour, batter . 
Thick, or drop, batter 

Soft dough 

Stiff dough 



Class experiment: 

PROCESS 



a. Mix 1 1. flour and 1 1. water 

b. Add 1 1. flour to a 

c. Add 1 1. flour to b 

d. Add 1 1. flour to c 



Thin batter 
Thick batter 
Soft dough 
Stiff dough 

The proportions given for muffins, biscuits, etc. (see classification, page 36), are only 
a working guide and always should be adjusted according to the judgment and experience 
of the cook. In no recipe for a flour mixture can the quantity of flour required be fixed. 
For the following reasons, no exact rule can be given for the proportion of flour and wetting 
in any one flour mixture: 

a. The various flours (wheat, etc.) vary in their gluten-content and in their 

ability to absorb water. 
6. No two brands of bread flour (nor brands of any other flour) are the same; 
that is, they vary in their ability to absorb water. 

Reduce the quantity of wetting when substituting pastry flour for bread flour in any 
given recipe, and vice versa ; explain. (Pastry and bread flours may be used interchangeably 
in all recipes. An average rule is to allow 1 J^ c. pastry flour to 1 c. bread flour.) Study 
Food Economy, pages 165-170, for use of substitutes for wheat flours. 

3. Measure flour for flour mixtures after the first sifting; this rule applies to quantity 
of flour mentioned in all standard cookbooks. Dip flour lightly into a cup by spoonfuls; 
do not pack by scooping with the cup or by shaking the cup; aim to keep the flour light. 
In measuring a fraction of a cup, level flour with a spoon, do not shake it. (This rule also 
applies to certain other dry ingredients which pack easily, such as powdered and confec- 
tioners' sugar.) 



38 LESSONS IN COOKERY 

4. Gluten (as well as egg) is a toughening agent in a flour mixture. As a general rule, 
the more any batter or dough is beaten or kneaded, the tougher it becomes, because the 
gluten is made tough and elastic; such toughening of the gluten is of more or less disadvan- 
tage, depending upon which of the three following groups the flour mixture belongs to 
(the last two groups contain no yeast) : 

Yeast mixtures: Kneading is of no disadvantage. 

Mixtures containing much fat and sugar, such as rich cakes: Beating is of no great 

disadvantage. (Fat makes flour mixtures tender, as does sugar also, to some 

extent.) 

Mixtures containing little fat and sugar: Beating is of great disadvantage except 
in the case of popovers. Such mixtures include: 
Plain cakes 
Muffins 

Baking-powder or soda biscuits 
Pancakes 
Fritters 
Etc. 

Hence delicacy of texture in flour mixtures is dependent on quick and little mixing after 
the flour is in. As a rule, beat as long as desired before the flour is in. Avoid much beating 
of plain cakes, muffins, etc., after combining the dry and wet ingredients; beat just long 
enough to make the ingredients stick together. Speed of manipulation is of less impor- 
tance where flours of low gluten-content are used. Pupil to name several such flours. 

Note that kneading is of advantage in yeast mixtures in that it improves the grain. 

5. Methods of blending or combinmg flour mixtures (pupil to supply data for the second 
column) : 



Method 



Flour Mixturbs 
WITH Which Used 



Beating, or whipping (this incloses much air) 

Stirring, or circular motion (this mixes ingredients well) 

Chopping 

Cutting and folding (this prevents air already inclosed from 

escaping) 

Kneading 

Pounding 



By which of the methods does a bread- or cake-mixer blend ingredients? 

6. Note three possible methods for adding meal (com, barley, oat, etc.) to quick 
breads, yeast breads, and all other flour mixtures: 

a. Cook the meal to a mush with the liquid, allowing 5-20 min. in a double 
boiler, or 5 min. boiling if water, not milk, is used as the liquid. This is the 
best method, since it affords the most thorough cooking of the starch. 



DIET FOR ADULTS 39 

h. Scald and soak the meal by covering it with scalding-hot liquid (such as 

skim milk) and allowing it to cool slowly over a period of about J^ hr. 
c. Add dry meal to the other dry ingredients. This is the quickest, but on the 
whole the least desirable, method. 
Method h is the best for adding rolled oats to a mixture, although either of the other 
two methods is sometimes used. 

7. In nearly all, if not all, flour mixtures the following are possible substitutes for fresh 
milk, being especially useful in camp life and in cases of emergency: 

Condensed milk 
Powdered milk 
Water 
Sour milk and baking soda are possible substitutes for sweet milk and baking powder 
in almost any flour mixture. But if no eggs are present in sour-milk and soda mixtures^ 
1 /. baking powder should he added for each cup of flour used. Baking powder is sometimes 
added even if eggs are present; for example, 1 1. baking powder to each teaspoon of soda 
is used in griddlecakes. 

It is often, asserted that griddlecakes, muffins, and other quick breads made with sour 
milk are lighter and tenderer than those made with sweet milk. Such an assertion is 
undoubtedly true in the case of corn-meal mixtures. 

Buttermilk may be substituted for sour milk, and, as a rule, in equal quantities, if the 
acidity and thickness of the two milks are about the same. 

8. Yolks and whites of eggs may be added to flour mixtures in any of the following 
ways (pupil to state examples of the use of these methods) : 



Method 



Flour MiXTintss 
IN Which Used 



Together, unbeaten 

Together, beaten 

Separately, unbeaten 

Separately, beaten (whites stiff) . 



Include sponge cake, fruit cake, pound cake, etc., in the right-hand column. 

The more eggs are beaten, the lighter is the flour mixture, but the more quickly it becomes 
stale; and vice versa. (Baking powder also causes mixtures to dry out quickly, hence one 
authority states that, as time goes on, she uses smaller and smaller quantities of baking 
powder in flour mixtures in general. The baking powder in many cookbook recipes can 
be reduced without having sogginess restilt.) 

9. Eggs may be substituted for part of the milk or water in the preparation of biscuit 
dough and other flour mixtures, but note that such a substitution necessitates the following 
changes in the recipe: 

a. Deduct J^-Ji *• baking powder for every egg used as a substitute for milk 
or water, depending on the extent to which the egg is beaten. 

b. Decrease the flour by about 2 tb. for every egg (beaten or unbeaten) used 
as a substitute for milk or water. 



40 LESSONS IN COOKERY 

10. "Fat" in a flour mixture means butter or a substitute. Each of the following 
is the equivalent in fat content of 16 tb. (1 c.) butter: 

13 tb. lard substitute 

14 tb. lard 

14 tb. cottonseed oil 

3^ c. butter, 6 tb. lard or lard substitute 
14J^ tb. hardened vegetable fat (such as Crisco) 
16 tb. (1 c.) of any one of the following: 
Beef and mutton fat 1 
Chicken fat / clarified 

Goose fat ) 

Commercial fat compoimd 
Oleomargarine 
13H squares bitter chocolate 
2 c. and 5 tb. chopped suet 
Since average butter is only 85 per cent fat, while Crisco, oils, and lard are 100 per cent, 
less of these is required than of butter. In other words, fats containing any of the follow- 
ing are used in smaller quantities: 
Water 
Buttermilk 

Solid substitutes (such as curd, salt, or connective tissue) 
Pupil to decide which fats require the addition of salt to the flour mixture* 

11. For sweetening foods in general (floiir mixtures, etc.), any one of the following is 
approximately equal in sweetness to 1 c. granulated sugar: 

1% c. corn sirup 
1 c. honey 
1}4 c. molasses 

12. State reasons why butter is not a desirable fat for greasing tins. 

13. The following rules apply to the baking of flour mixtures as well as to all other 
baking: 

a. Mixtures that should rise in the baking, such as muffins, cakes, etc. : 

Bake on the lower shelf, at least until mixtures are very light and almost 
done. If necessary, remove mixtures at the last to the top shelf so as 
to brown the top surfaces. 

b. Mixtures that should not rise in the baking, at least to any extent, such as 
crackers, cookies, and most pies: 

Bake on either the lower or the top shelf. 

Any pies likely to have a soaked under crust, such as custard and juicy- 
fruit pies, should first be placed on the lower shelf (to harden lower crust), 
then later be placed on the upper shelf. 
Note that foods brown better on the bottom if placed on the lower shelf, and that they 
brown better on the top if placed on the top shelf. Why? Are there any ovens which ^e 
exceptions to this rule? 

14. The following are desirable points in an oven: 

a. Plain finish (so as to make easy cleaning possible) 

b. Glass door 

c. Thermometer 

d. Power to hold an even temperature (insist on this point when buying an oven) 



DIET FOR ADULTS 41 

15. Simple scheme for an oven thermometer: 

a. By means of a bit, bore a m'-W hole in any oven, whether portable or in a 
range. Make the hole in the center of the top of oven, if possible, otherwise 
in the side. (In school, it is an easy matter to borrow from the manual 
training department a bit with which the teacher or pupil may bore holes in 
the portable ovens.) 
h. Wind string aroimd and around a thermometer at a point about 5' from the 
bulb, and then at this 5' point fit the thermometer tight into a cork (not 
rubber). 
c. Rest the cork over the hole in oven (under some conditions, it may be better 
to insert the cork in the hole). 
(For candy-making, stewing, etc., bore a hole in the cover of a utensil, then insert a 
thermometer in the same way as into the oven.) 



FLOUR MIXTURES: BATTERS 



BREAKFAST RECIPES 

The first recipes given (griddlecakes and waffles) are thin, or pour, batters; 
the other three recipes (green-com patties, muffins, and com bread) are thick, or 
drop, batters. The so-called muffin method is used in mixing all of them (see 
Method II for muffins, page 46). 



Ingredients: 

2tb. 

Ht, 

dash 

IMtb. 

^t. 

Itb. 

Hi. 



Ingredients: 

2tb. 

Met. 

dash 

2tb. 

Mt. 

Itb. 

Ht. 



Sweet-Milk Griddlecakes and Waffles 

2 c. bread flour 

3 t. baking powder 
%t. salt 

13^ 0. milk 

2 yolks of eggs, beaten very light 

2 whites of eggs, beaten stiff 

2 tb. fat, melted and somewhat cooled 

Sour-Milk Griddlecakes and Waffles 



2 c. bread flour 

1 1. soda (avoid Itimps) 

H t. salt 

2 c. thick sour milk or buttermilk (see Note 7, page 39) 

2 yolks of eggs, beaten very light 

2 whites of eggs, beaten stiff 

2 tb. fat, melted and somewhat cooled 



Method for griddlecakes and waffles: 

1. Mix and sift the dry ingredients. 

2. Gradually add dry ingredients to a mixture of the egg yolks and milk, 
mix only enough to make a smooth batter, then add fat. 

3. Fold in the whites of eggs, and bake at once, as follows: 

Griddlecakes: Drop mixture by spoonfuls on either a hot, lightly greased 
iron griddle or a hot, ungreased soapstone griddle. (Compare cakes 
baked in the two ways as to tenderness, color, and flavor.) 
Waffles: Fill each compartment of a hot, lightly greased waflSe iron 
two-thirds full of batter. (Use an excess of fat on the iron for the first 
set of waffles baked, and be certain that both sections of the iron are 
very hot; otherwise the waffles will stick to the iron.) 
It is often convenient to pour the batter from a pitcher. 

42 



DIET FOR ADULTS 43 

Use any of the following for greasing the iron griddle or the waffle iron: 
Bacon or ham ends 
Salt pork 
Lard or Crisco 
Etc. 

Bake both griddlecakes and waffles until they are very light, and brown them 
on both sides, avoiding too high a flame, else the cakes will brown on the under 
side before they are light. With griddlecakes, look underneath for brown color 
by lifting the side of each cake with a spatula. 

Do not turn either a griddlecake or a waffle until the following tests hold true: 
a. Edge of cake is cooked. (Note that all of the top surface except the 
edge is still semi-liquid when the cake is turned; do not allow the top 
to become hard and dry.) 
6. Top surface is covered with bubbles. (Turn the cake before many of 
the bubbles on top break, else the cake will be heavy. Why ? Discuss 
the source of these bubbles.) 
4. Serve at once with any of the following (see Note 10) : 
Butter (alone, or with powdered sugar or hot or cold sirup) 
Stewed apples, fruit butter, or preserved fruit 
Bacon 
Gravy 

Nolex 

1.. Use this method with all kinds of griddlecakes and waffles. 

2. The yolks and whites of eggs may be beaten together; however, it is often asserted 
that the secret of fine, light griddlecakes and waffles consists in beating the yolks and whites 
of eggs separately. 

3. While baking, keep the bowl of batter away from the stove. Why? 

4. Note reasons why it is essential that very little fat be used on the iron griddle or 
waffle iron: 

a. Irritating vapors may result from heating fat to the high temperature neces- 
sary in using either iron utensil; the more fat used, the more such substances 
may be formed. 
h. Air is made smoky. There should be little, if any, smoke in the kitchen 
during the baking of griddlecakes or waffles if the proper (very small) quantity 
of fat is used on the griddle; only enough fat to keep the batter from sticking 
should be used. 
c. Surface of griddlecakes and waffles is toughened. 
For baking each of the class recipes for griddlecakes, pages 42 and 45, ^J^ t. fat is 
sufficient for the individual saut^ing pan used as a griddle. Each class recipe given on 
page 42 makes one griddlecake or one waffle. 

A soapstone griddle is good in that it needs no greasing, and cakes do not stick or bum 
easily. Do not wash a soapstone griddle; clean it with salt. 

5. If the school owns no waffle iron, one or two pupils may be asked to bring irons 
from home. 

6. In camp, cool^ griddlecakes either on a griddle or in a sautding pan. 



44 LESSONS IN COOKERY 

7. Add a small quantity of sugar to the batter, if desired; sugar is a browning agent 
in any flour mixture. 

8. If desired, vary the batter for plain griddlecakes or waffles in either of the following 
ways: 

a. Substitute one or a combination of the following for part or all of the white 
wheat flour: 

DRY FLOUKS. ETC. MOIST MATERIALS (STARCHY) 

Barley flour Cereal, cooked (hominy, rice, etc.) 

Bran Crumbs, soft bread 

Buckwheat flour Macaroni or spaghetti, cooked, chopped fine 

Com flour or meal Potatoes, grated raw 

Crumbs, fine sifted bread Potatoes, mashed (white or sweet) 

Graham flotir Etc. 

Rye flour 

Wholewheat flour 

Etc. 
Delicious cakes result from the substitution of com flour (not meal) for -all 
the wheat flour. 

Corn meal or barley flour is said to make the batter brown especially well. 
Cakes containing raw potato require very thorough cooking. A coarse cooked 
cereal, such as hominy, should be mashed before being used. 
Study rules for substitutes for wheat flours in flour mixtures in general in 
Food Economy, pages 165-170. 

b. Add the last thing H-l c. of any of the following foods to every cup of plain 
batter: 

Fruit: 

Berries (huckleberries, etc.) 
Chopped raw apples 
Chopped bananas 
Chopped dried fruit (dates, etc.) 
Juicy vegetables: 

Stewed com or celery 
Mashed ^tmnip or squash 
Etc. 
Instructor to assign to each pupil one of the substitutes or additions, then let the 
class compare all the cakes and waffles made. Pupil to study recipes in various cook- 
books. 

9. Baking-powder griddlecakes of all kinds are useful in camp life. The commercial 
pancake flours, especially useful in camp cooking, usually consist of a mixture of part 
or all of the following ingredients: 

Flour (almost any tjrpe) 
Salt 

Baking powder 
Powdered milk 
Egg substitute (a powder) 
Pupil to make inquiry as to the composition of "Aunt Jemima's" and other flours. 

10. A good sirup for use on griddlecakes and waffles is made by boiling together 5 min. 
a mixture of 1 c. brown sugar and J^ c. water. 



DIET FOR ADULTS 



45 



A simple shortcake is made by placing a fruit filling between two griddlecakes. 
A jeUy roll is made by spreading a thin griddlecake with jelly, rolling it, and sprinkling 
it with powdered sugar. 

11. Why are soggy, or heavy, cakes indigestible? 

12. Thin batters derived from plain griddlecake or wafHe batter are as follows: 

Popovers (use a little thinner batter than for griddlecakes or waffles; see page 185) 
Fritters (see page 95) 



Ingredients: 

IH tb. 

2t. 

Ht. 

K4t. 

2tb. 

It. 

Ht. 



Corn-Meal Griddlecakes 



1 c. com meal 

}4 c. bread flour 

IH tb. baking powder 

J^ t. soda 

}4 t. salt 

1}^ c. thick sour milk or buttermilk 

1 Qgg, beaten very light (yolk and white together) 

1 tb. fat, melted and cooled 



Method: 

Follow the method given on pages 42-43. 



Green-Corn Patties, or '^ Oysters" 



Ingredienta: 


(1 dozen patties) 


J^tb. 


Ji c. bread flour 


Vst. 


1 1. sugar 


Vst. 


1 1. baking powder 


dash 


Jit. salt 


Ht. 


2 tb. milk 


^t. 


1 yolk of eggf beaten light yellow 


Itb. 


J^ c. sweet com, drained well 


It. 


1 white of egg, beaten stiff 


Method: 





1. Mix dry ingredients, add them to the milk and yolk, and mix well. 

2. Add grated or finely chopped com; avoid whole kernels. 

3. Fold in the whites, and cook the thick batter resulting in any one of the 
three following ways : 

a. Grease a moderately hot griddle or saut^ing pan, drop the batter 
by the tablespoonful, and brown on both sides, using a pancake- 
turner for turning. Thorough cooking is essential. 

6. Drdp by the tablespoonful into deep fat, and brown. 

c. Drop the batter by the tablespoonful into a greased pan, and brown 
on both sides in an oven. 

4. Serve with sirup, jelly, or thickened fmit juice as a breakfast or supper dish. 



46 LESSONS IN COOKERY 

Noiev 

1. The yolks and whites of eggs may be beaten together (see Note 8, page 39). 

2. Chopped sweet green pepper is a good addition. 

3. If the mixture is sautded by the teaspoonful rather than the tablespoonful, 3^ c. soft 
stale bread crtimbs may be substituted for Ji c. flour in the given recipe; such patties are 
very tender and break easily. 

4. Green peas (cooked and mashed) or another vegetable may be substituted for com 
in the recipe. 





One-Egg Muflfins 


Ingredients: 


(S-IB muffins) 


4tb. 


2 c. bread flour. 


Mt. 


4 t. baking powder 


Met. 


Ht.sslt 


4t. 


1 c. milk or water 


iy2t. 


1 egg, beaten very light 


J^tb. 


2-4 tb. fat 



Method I: 

1. Sift the dry ingredients together two or three times. 

2. Chop in the cold fat with a fork until fat is in very fine particles. 

3. Mix egg and milk together. 

*• Add dry ingredients to wet ingredients and with little mixing make into a 
batter. 

6. Place in greased muflBn tins and bake 18-20 min. in a hot oven, 419**-428*' F., 
or 215^-220^ C. 

Method II: 

1. Sift dry ingredients together two or three times. 

2. Mix the milk with the egg, 

3. Add the dry ingredients to the egg and milk all at once, and with as little 
mixing as possible make into a smooth batter. 

4. With little mixing, add fat, melted and cooled. 
6. Bake as in Method I. 

Notes: 

1. Method II is generally used with muffins, and in the preparation of other flour mix- 
tures it is often referred to as the "muffin method." 

The following (simpler, but less usual) is a possible variation of Method II: 

a. Mix all the wet ingredients together, namely: 

Milk 

Egg 

Melted fat (cooled slightly) 

b. Add the dry to the wet ingredients, and proceed as in the regular Method II. 
Do not allow the fat to be hardened into grains by using milk that is too cold, 
else the texture of the muffin will be injured. 



DIET FOR ADULTS 47 

2. The secret of tenderness and fine texture in muffins consists in little mixing. (See 
Note 4, page 38.) 

Experiment as follows in order to study the effect of mixing upon the texture of mtiffins: 

a. Mix dry ingredients with wet ingredients and beat hard. 

b. Mix dry ingredients with wet ingredients and beat little. 

c. Bake mixtures resulting from a and b and compare results. 

3. It saves time in dish-washing if the dry ingredients are added to the wet ingredients, 
rather than the wet to the dry ingredients. Why? However, one expert cook asserts 
that with plain mixtures like muffins it is better to add the wet to the dry ingredients, 
since less beating is required with this method (hence the gluten is not developed to such 
an extent). 

4. Tests when muffins are done are the same as those for cake, namely: 

Shrinkage from pan 
Firmness to touch 
Brown surfaces 

5. A perfect muffin, like a perfect cake, is flat on top. (Muffins, cakes, and other flour 
mixtures in which the gluten has been developed by too much beating contain timnels, or 
long holes, and are smooth and shiny on top and rise to a peak when baked.) 

6. The recipe for one-egg muffins allows of considerable variation according to taste; 
for example: 

Fat: Use 1-4 tb. 

Sugar: Add 1-3 tb. (sugar aids in browning, adds to the tenderness, and removes 

any flatness of flavor). 
Egg: Omit the egg, using }i c. milk, or a little less, in its place. In most cases, 
beat the eggs for use in muffins; beat the yolks and whites separately or together. 
Flour: See Notes 7 and 8. 

Nuts, etc.: To each cup of batter add the last thing J^-^ c. of any of the 
following (use extra eggs or baking powder in every case, else the muffins will 
be heavy) : 

Nuts, chopped 
Com, stewed 

Fruit, raw or cooked, such as: 
Chopped raw apples 
Dried fruit (currants, raisins, chopped dates, figs, prunes, or apricots, 

etc.) 
Various berries (huckleberries, etc.) 
The additions (nuts, corn, and fruit) may be made no matter what kind of flour has been 
used in the muffins. 

Class to experiment with muffins, using var3ring quantities of the following: 

Fat 
Sugar 
Egg 

Leaven (for example, make one muffin without any baking powder, simply by 
way of comparison) 

Pupil to prepare a recipe for sour-milk muffins. 



48 LESSONS IN COOKERY 

7. Any of the wheat flours (bread, pastry, whole-wheat, or graham) may be used for 
muffins. Any one of the following suggestions may be adopted in the given recipe for 
one-egg muffins: 

a. Substitute 2 c. pastry flour for 2 c. bread flour, keeping all the other ingredients 
the same except for the reduction of the milk or water to % c. (Reduce 
to 1 tb. milk or water in the class recipe.) (Muffins are a little more delicate 
in texture if made with pastry flour.) 

b. Substitute 2 c. whole-wheat flour for 2 c. bread flour. 

c. Substitute graham flour for half of the bread flour, that is, use 1 c. of each. 

8. Any of the substitutes for wheat flours, such as soft bread cnmabs and cooked 
cereal (rice, hominy, oatmeal, etc.), may also be used; see rules for substitution. Food 
Economy f pages 165-170. Either of the following changes may be made in the given recipe 
for one-egg muffins: 

a. Use 1 c. rye flour and 1 c. bread flour. 

b. Use H c. corn meal and !}/£ c. bread flour. 

Note two reasons for using but a small quantity of com meal: 

a. Com meal in a larger quantity would absorb too much of the wetting; com 
meal absorbs more wetting than does bread flour. 

b. Com meal tends to make the muffii^ heavy and granular. 

9. Some kinds of muffin batter are good fried by the spoonful in deep fat, particularly 
that made with rye or graham flour (see page 93). 

Sour-Milk Com Bread 

Ingredients: 



2 c. com meal, yellow or white 

2 c. sour milk 

2 tb. sugar, white or brown 

1}4 t. salt 

2 tb. fat, melted and cooled 

2 eggs, well beaten 

1 1. soda 

1 tb. cold water 



Ho. 

He. 

Jitb. 

Met. 

Jitb. 

Itb. 

Ht. 

Method: , 

1. Prepare a mush from the com meal and milk by cooking them together in 
a double boiler for about 10 min. 

2. Cool, and add all the other ingredients, including the soda dissolved in the 
cold water. 

3. Pour batter into shallow, greased pans (or muffin pans), and baJce about 
30 min. in a moderate oven, 383° F., or 195° C. 

Notes: 

1. If preferred, use either of the following methods for mixing (see Note 6, page 38) : 

a. Mix and sift all the dry ingredients, then add them to a mixture of the wet 
ingredients. (Omit 1 tb. cold water in using this quick method.) 

b. Scald milk, add the com meal, then cool gradually over a period of }4 lir. 
Add all the other ingredients. 



DIET FOR ADULTS 



49 



2. Raw or cooked fruit (such as apple or berry) is a good addition to any com bread or 
muffin. Cooked rice, hominy, or other cereal is also good in corn-meal breads. 

3. What is the difference between old-process and new-process com meal? 



Sweet-Milk Com Bread 

J^ c. com meal, yellow or white 

IJi c. bread flour 

3 tb. sugar 

J^t. salt 

4 1. baking powder 

1 c. milk 

1 egg, beaten very light 

2 tb. butter or a substitute, melted and cooled 



Ingredients: 

IJ^tb. 
2J^tb. 
It. 
Het. 

y2t. 

IJ^tb. 

Htb. 

Method: 

1. Mix and sift the first five (dry) ingredients, then add them to a mixture of 
the last three (wet) ingredients and beat well. 

2. Pour batter into shallow, greased pans (or muffin pans), and bake 20-30 min. 
in a moderate oven, 383^ P., or 195^ C. 

Note- 
Either of the following methods for mixing may be used in place of the foregoing quick 
method: 

a. Prepare a mush from the meal and milk, allowing about 10 min. in a double 
boiler. Cool, and add all the other ingredients, including the dry ingredients 
sifted together. (The bread is softer than if made by the foregoing method.) 

b. Scald milk, then add the com meal and cool very slowly. Add eggs, then 
stir in the flour, salt, and baking powder sifted together. 





Southern Spoon Com Bread 


Ingredients: 


(6 servings) 


2tb. 


1 c. com meal, yellow or white 


Ho. 


2 c. cold water 


Itb. 


2 eggs, well beaten 


>^tb. 


1 tb. fat, melted and cooled 


Ht. 


2 t. salt 


2tb. 


1 c. milk, whole or skim 



Method: 

1. Mix com meal and water, bring it slowly to the boiling point, and cook 
5 min. 

2. Add all the other ingredients, beat well, pour batter into a well-greased pan, 
and bake 25 min. in a hot oven. 

3. Serve with a spoon from the dish in which the com bread is cooked; sirup 
or milk is a good accompaniment. 



STEAMED SUET, OR PLUM, PUDDINGS 

Steamed suet, or plum, puddings include the following types: 

Blueberry 

Cranberry 

Currant 

Date 

Fig 

Raisin 

Etc. 
All are good cold-weather desserts. Why? All are drop batters. The two 
following recipes are typical. Carrot pudding is inexpensive, and keeps for weeks 
the same as fruit cake. Note that suet puddings in general keep well. 



Standard Suet Pudding 



Ingredients: 



13^ tb. 


1J4 c. bread flour 


Ket. 


3^ t. soda 


Ket. 


H t. salt 




/Jit. ginger 


Jit. mixed 


1 Ji t. nutmeg 


spice 


) Ji t. allspice 




^ 3^ t. cinnamon 


Htb. 


J^ c. chopped kidney suet 


^tb. 


J^c. milk 


>^tb. 


J^ c. molasses 


6 raisins 


5i c. raisins (omit, if preferred) 


Ht. 


1 tb. flour (rub this on the fruit) 




Carrot Pudding 


Ingredients: 


(6 or 7 servings) 


Itb. 


1 c. bread flour 


Met. 


}4 t. soda 


Ket. 


J^t. salt 


3^tb. 


14 c. sugar 


J^tb. 


J4 c. chopped kidney suet 


J^tb. 


J^ c. grated raw carrot 


Htb. 


J^ c. grated raw potato 


6 raisins 


}4 c. black raisins, chopped 



50 



DIET FOR ADULTS 51 

GENERAL METHOD FOR STEAMED SUET PUDDINGS 

1. Mix and sift the dry ingredients, then stir in the fruit, washed and thor- 
oughly dried. 

2. Mix the suet with the wet ingredients. 

3. Add dry ingredients to the wet, and mix well. 

4. Steam batter in greased molds, such as lard pails or baking-powder cans; 
3 hr. are required for the average-sized mold. Fill the molds not more than three- 
quarters full. 

6. Remove covers from the molds, and dry the puddings 10-15 min. in a 
moderate oven. 

6. Serve with hard or other pudding sauce. 

Notes: 

1. The kidney fat of beef, veal, lamb, and pork (not mutton) may be used in these 
puddings. Beef fat, often called suet, is ordinarily used; always use kidney suet, since it 
contains much less tough membrane than other suet. Suet is a cheaper shortening than 
butter, and by many is considered more delicate. What is the price of kidney suet per 
pound? 

Fat salt pork which has been soaked in cold water over night is a possible substitute 
for suet. 

2. Dates, figs, currants, or nuts may be substitttted for part or all of the raisins in the 
two recipes on page 60. 

3. Dried and condensed milk, both so useful in camp cooking, may be used in these 
puddings. 

4. Boil the pudding, if desired, using either of the following methods: 

o. Place pudding in a mold, cover mold, drop it into a kettle of boiling water, 

and boil 3 hr. 
h. Boil pudding as follows in a cloth: 

(1) Wring a piece of strong muslin out of boiling water, and spread it 
over a bowl. 

(2) Sprinkle it with a thick layer of flour, add pudding, and tie in a ball; 
tie bag loosely, especially if pudding contains much leaven. 

(3) Flour the opening. 

(4) Drop pudding into boiling water and keep water boiling 1-3 hr., 
depending on the size and the shape of mold. 

5. Occasionally, but not often, a suet pudding is baked only. 

6. It is suggested that class recipes for all these puddings be cooked by either of the 
following methods: 

a. Steam pudding 25-30 min., then bake 5 rain. 

h. Place pudding in a covered baking-powder can, drop can directly into boiling 

water, and boil 25-30 min. ; a narrow, deep saucepan, such as the top of a 

double boiler, is essential. 

Use a sample baking-powder can as a mold in both methods a and h. (One teacher 
reports the receipt of twenty-five empty sample cans from a certain manufacturer of baking 
powder.) 



CAKES CONTAINING FAT 

CAKES IN GENERAL: A CLASSIFICATION 

7. Cakes containing no fat (namely sponge cakes, such as angel cakes and sponge 
cakes proper; see pages 189-193) 

II. Cakes containing more or less of any of the following fats (see Note 10, page 40) : 
Butter (expensive) 
Butter substitutes: 

Oleomargarine 

Nut margarine 

Crisco 

Com oil 

Wesson oil 

Drippings (bacon fat is said not to taste in spice cake) 

Cream (sweet or sour) 

The following are tjrpical recipes for plain and rich cakes. 





Plain Cake 


Ingredients: 




Jitb. 


H c. fat 


Itb. 


1 c. sugar 


l^t. 


2 medium eggs, well beaten (see Note 8, page 39) 


Itb. 


1 c. milk 


2J^tb. 


2^ c. pastry flour 


Ht. 


2J^ t. baking powder 


dash 


H t. salt 


4d. 


IJ^ t. vanilla 



Method: 

Mix ingredients by any one of the six methods given on pages 55-57, then 
bake cake 30 min. in a shallow pan in a moderate oven. 

Note: 

Derivatives of plain cake include the following: 

Cottage pudding (plain cake batter placed in a shallow pan, baked 20-25 min. 
in a moderate oven, then cut in squares and served hot with lemon or other 
pudding sauce) 
Steamed puddings containing fruit (such as blueberries or cranberries) 
Concord pudding (a fruit cobbler made with cake batter, not biscuit dough; 

see page 74) 
Cream, or Washington, pie 

52 



DIET FOR ADULTS 



53 





Rich Cake 


Ingredients: 




YiXh. 


1 c. fat 


Itb. 


2 c. sugar 


IHt. 


4 eggs 


It. 


5i c. milk 


IJitb. 


3 c. pastry flour 


Ht. 


3-4 1. baking powder (see Note 1) 


Ha,sh 


Jit. salt 


4d. 


1 1. vanilla 



Melhod: 

Mix ingredients by any one of the six methods given on pages 55-57. 

1. Use 3 1. baking powder if the yolks and whites of eggs are beaten together until very 
light; use 4 t. if the eggs are not beaten at all. 

2. This recipe is often called standard, or cup cake, or 1, 2, 3, 4 cake. Explain the 
latter term. 

3. A few of the ntmierous derivatives of either plain or rich cake are as follows: 

Chocolate cake (such as devil's food) 

Marble cake 

Gold cake 

White cake 

Nut cake 

Fruit cake (raisin, currant, etc.) 

Spice cake 

Devil's Food 

(i4 derivative of the foregoing rich cake) 
Ingredients: 
}4 tb. H c. fat 

2 tb. 2 c. sugar 

Ji egg 4 eggs (see Note 1) 

1 tb. 1 c. milk 

2H tb. 2}4 c. pastry flour 

}i t. 3-4 t. baking powder (see Note 1) 

dash yi t. salt (omit if a salted fat is used) 

It. 2 squares bitter chocolate, melted 

4 d. 1}4: t. vanilla 

Method: 

1. Mix ingredients by any one of the six methods given on pages 55-57. The 
standard method is ordinarily used. 

2. Pour batter into a large tube tin which has been greased and floured. (Note 
that the raw batter half fills such a tin.) 

3. Bake cake 45-50 min. in a moderate oven. 

4. Cover it with white or chocolate boiled frosting. 



64 LESSONS IN COOKERY 

Notes: 

1. Use only .3 t. baking powder if the yolks and whites of eggs are beaten separately 
(see Note 8, page 39). (If the standard cake method is used in this case, add well-beaten 
yolks to the creamed fat and sugar, and as the last step fold in the whites beaten stiff; add 
vanilla and cooled chocolate just before folding in the whites.) Use 4 t. baking powder 
if the yolks and whites are beaten together. 

2. The class recipe is sufficient for one large muffin tin. Use J^ yolk (about % t. well- 
beaten yolk) and J^ white (about 3J^ tb. white beaten stiff). 



Pound Cake 

(A rich cake) 



Ingredients: 

Itb. 

4t. 

2Ht. 

2tb. 

dash 

dash 



1 c. butter or a substitute 
1% c. granulated sugar 

5 eggs, unbeaten 

2 c. pastry flour 
3^ t. salt 

J^ t. mace 



Method: 

The standard cake method is given, since it probably insures the best results with 
pound cake. 

1. Cream fat, then add sugar, and beat mixture until it is very light. 

2. Add eggs one at a time, each time mixing thoroughly tmtil the following 
points hold true: 

a. Mixture is an "emulsion" that looks waxy and stiff like mayonnaise 

or beaten butter. 
6. Mixture is so stiff that it drops by the very stiff spoonful. 
Much beating with a spoon, fork, or other utensil is essential. 

3. Add flour, salt, and spice sifted together once, and blend batter well by mix- 
ing hard for a few seconds only. Avoid much beating at this stage, else the cake 
will be tough and contain large air holes; a perfect pound cake contains only small 
air holes and is velvety in texture. 

4. Place batter in a shallow tin that has been greased and floured. 

6. Bake about 1 hr. in a steady, moderate oven or in the special oven described 
on page 67, Note 4, a. The cake is rich in eggs, therefore beware of scorching it. 
Allow 15-20 min. for the class recipe. 

Notes: 

1. Of what does the wetting in this recipe consist? Of what does the leaven consist? 
Note that a little milk and baking powder are used in some recipes for pound cake. 

2. A potmd cake will keep for months. 

3. Experiment with a cake-mixer in step 2. 



DIET FOR ADULTS 55 

4. Small cakes for use at receptions, etc«, are made asifollows: 
a. Bake pound cake in a J^'-l" sheet. 
h. When it is cold, cut it into any of the following forms: 

Crescents Circles 

Diamonds Squares 

Hearts Etc. 

c. Cover cakes with one of the following glazes, and let them stand over night: 

1 white of egg mixed with 1 tb. powdered sugar 

A heavy sirup, cooled slightly, made by boiling 1 c. sugar and 1 c. water 
to the threading stage 

d. Dip cakes into melted fondant, white or tinted, by means of a fork or a candy 
dipper, then place them on parafl&n paper. (See recipe for fondant, page 
102. Melt the fondant in a double boiler imtil it is as thin as cream.) 

e. Decorate the cakes, using,, for .example, dainty strips of angelica. (See out- 
line, page 62.) 

VARIOUS METHODS FOR CAKES CONTAINING FAT 

In work with all six methods it is essential to remember that much beating after the 
flour is in tends to toughen cakes. This is especially true with plain cakes; it makes less 
difiEerence with cakes rich in fat and sugar. The rule is of greater force with cakes made of 
bread flour than with those made of pastry flour. Why? See Note 4, page 38. 

Miller and Allen make the following statement: "This series of experiments disproves 
the old theory which is still sometimes taught, that long and vigorous beating is necessary 
to obtain a good cake. We have frequently heard housewives say that whenever they took 
particular pains to make a fine cake, it was sure to be a failure. On the, other hand, one 
that had been put together hurriedly was usually a success. There is an optimtmi amount 
of beating which gives the most desirable product, a cake with fine texture but free from 
timnels. This seems to be from one to two minutes, depending upon the vigor with which 
the beating is done." ^ 

Creamed-Fat Method 

{Standard cake method) 

1. Cream, or beat,' the fat with a spoon until it is white and creainy. 

2. Add the sugar and beat the mixture until it is very light and foamy and the 
sugar is dissolved; this beating of the sugar and fat together is essential. 

3. Add the yolks or the whole eggs (beaten or unbeaten), beat the mixture 
thoroughly, then add the flavoring. 

4. Sift the flour, salt, and baking powder together. 

6. Add milk and dry ingredients alternately to the mixture of fat, sugar, and 
eggs, and beat only until it is smooth. 

6. At this point, if they are used at all, fold in the whites beaten until stiflf. 

7. Pour batter into pans, and bake. 

1 "Problems in Cake Making," Journal oj Home Economics, December, 1918, page 545. 



66 LESSONS IN COOKERY 

Melted-Fat Method I 

1. Beat together the yolks and whites of eggs. 

2. Add the sugar and beat the mixture thoroughly. 

3. Add the milk, then a sifted mixture of flour, baking powder, and salt, and 
beat mixture only until it is smooth. 

4. Add melted fat, beat batter slightly, and bake. 

Notes: 

1. The fat should be (a) barely melted, not cooked, (b) wann, not hot. A low tempera- 
ture is advisable for the melting process; hence note the value of a double boiler. 

2. If preferred, beat the whites of eggs separately and fold them iato the batter after 
beating in the fat. 

Melted-Fat Method II 

(Muffin or griddlecake method) 

L Mix and sift together the dry ingredients. 

2. Mix all the wet ingredients except the melted fat, and beat them thoroughly. 

3. Add the dry ingredients to the wet ingredients and beat mixture just until 
it is smooth. 

4. Add the melted fat, beat mixture slightly, and bake. 

Note- 
Tim method is sometimes used for the quick mixing of layer cakes, and of cottage 
pudding and other plain cakes in which no great quantity of fat is used. 

Chopped-Fat Method 

(Biscuit or pie-crust method) 

1. Mix and sift all the dry ingredients together, then chop in the fat by means 
of a fork or two knives. 

2. Add the wetting, beat only until mixture is smooth, and bake. 
Note: 

A cake of rather coarse texture results from the use of this method. 

Rubbed-Fat Method 

1. Mix the flour and cold fat together with the hands until neither one can be 
distinguished. 

2. Add the remaining dry ingredients and mix well. 

3. Add the dry ingredients to the wet, beat only until batter is smooth, and 
bake. 

Note: 

A cake of fine texture results from the use of this method. 



DIET FOR ADULTS 57 

Softened-Fat Method 

{Cake-mixer method) 

1. Place all the ingredients together in a cake-mixer, including fat which has 
been softened a little and flour which has been thoroughly sifted with the leavening 
agent. 

2. Turn the mixer just until the batter is smooth, that is, 1-3 min., then bake. 

Note*: 

1. For good restdts, the mixer must be at least half full of batter. 

2. If the cook has a strong arm, she can use a spoon for beating all the ingredients 
together in a bowl. 

3. In work with a .dasa recipe, stir all the ingredients together in a bowl just until 
they are well blended. 

Notes on the Foregoing Six Cake Methods 

1. Experienced persons will find aU methods satisfactory with nearly every cake made 
with fat, provided the ingredients are thoroughly mixed. Inexperienced persons should use 
the creamed-fat method, since it insures the thorough mixing so essential to good cake- 
making. 

2. See Note 8, page 39, for possible methods for adding eggs to cakes and other flour 
mixtures. 

3. The matter of economy in time is of great importance. Pupil to determine which 
of the six methods requires the least time. 

4. Note the following points with regard to the baking of all cakes containing fat: 

a. Employ a steady, moderate temperature of 360''-410'' P., or 195''-210** C, 
(Insert a thermometer in the top or side of oven.) Some experienced cooks 
prefer the following method of baking to the use of the steady oven; it is 
satisfactory for pound cake as well as all other cakes containing fat: 

(1) Place cake in a perfectly cold oven. 

(2) Immediately light both burners, turning the gas on full. 

(3) Employ a medium temperature as soon as the cake is well risen. 

h. The following factors, to a certain extent, influence the temperature for baking 
cakes: 

Size and shape of pan 

Composition of cake with regard to quantity and kind of fat, leaven, 
fruit, eggs, chocolate, etc. 

5. Pupil to study all cake-making data in the following books and articles: Bailey, 
Domestic Science; Chambers, Principles of Food Preparation; Forster and Weigley, Foods 
and Sanitation; Kinne and Cooley, Foods and Household Management; Mills, Making Cake, 
Parts I and II (Cornell Reading-Courses) ; Van Arsdale, Technical Education Bulletin 22, 
Teachers College, Columbia University, "Some Attempts to Standardize Oven Tempera- 
tures for Cookery Processes"; Wellman, "Cake Mixing," Journal of Home Economics, 
December, 1909; Miller and Allen, "Problems in Cake Making," Journal of Home Eco- 
nomics, December, 1918. 



68 



LESSONS IN COOKERY 



Ingredients: 

Hth. 

Itb. 
Itb. 

Het. 

Ht. 

Hit. 

Met. 

Hit. 

dash 

2tb. 

Method: 



ECONOMICAL CAKBS 

(Prepared by special methods) 

Apple-Sauce Cake 

ii c. fat 

1 c. brown sugar (no lumps) 

1 c. cold, unsweetened sour-apple sauce in the form of a mush as thick 

as a drop batter 
1 1. soda 
1 tb. hot water 
1 1. nutmeg 
1 1. cinnamon 
1 1. baking powder 
H t. salt 
l5i-2 c. bread flour 



1. Mix the cake by the creamed-fat method except for the addition of apple 
sauce where otherwise yolks of eggs would be added; before the apple sauce is 
added, it should be well blended with a solution of the soda and hot water. (What 
are the source and the kind of bubbles?) The cake mixture should be as stiff as 
a very soft drop biscuit dough. 

2. Place batter in either a cake or a bread pan, and bake 40-50 min. in a slow 
oven; in some cases it is well to increase the heat a little at the very last. 

Notes: 

1. Because this fruit cake contains no eggs, it is especially desirable in the winter, when 
eggs are expensive. The class recipe is sufficient for one muffin tin. 

2. If desired, add the following ingredients, chopped: 



J^tb. 
It. 

Ht. 



}^l c. raisins 

J^-J^ c. walnut meats 

Citron to taste 

Camp Fruit Cake 



Method: 



1. Boil the following ingredients together 3 min., then cool: 



Itb. 

dash 

dash 

Met. 

Het. 

Hth. 

Itb. 

&-8 raisins 



1 c. sugar, white or brown 

H t. salt 

34 t. grated nutmeg 

1 1. ground cinnamon 

1 1. ground cloves 

3^ c. lard or a substitute 

1 c. water 

1-2 c. raisins (or any other dried fruit), washed 



DIET FOR ADULTS 



59 



2. Add the following when the foregoing ingredients are cold: 

Dry ingredients, sifted well together: 
2 tb. 2 c. bread flour 

H2 t. J^ t. baking powder 

Ke t. .1 1. soda 

It. J^ c. nut meats, chopped 

3. Place batter in one bread pan and bake 1-134 hr. in a slow oven. 



Mock Devil's Food 



Ingredients: 




2t. 


J^ c. warm water 


5i-it. 


2 squares bitter chocolate, melted in a double boiler 


Met. 


1 1. soda 


%t. 


1 yolk of egg 


2t. 


J^ c. cold water 


It. 


4 tb. fat 


IMtb. 


1 c. sugar 


4d. 


3/^ t. vanilla 


4tb. 


1%Q. pastry flour 


dash 


34 t. salt 


Met. 


1 1. baking powder 



Method: 

1. Add warm water to melted chocolate and simmer to make a smooth paste 
as thick as a thick batter. 

2. Mix the soda, yolk, and cold water. 

3. Cream fat and sugar together. 

4. Cool the chocolate paste, beat into it the fat and sugar mixture, then add the 
yolk mixture and vanilla, and mix well. 

6. Add the flour, salt, and baking powder sifted together, and beat only until 
batter is smooth.- 

6. Bake 46-60 min. in a moderate oven until cake is very firm; thorough baking 
and drying out are essential. 

7. Handle the cake with great care in removing it from the tin, since it is very 
tender and breaks easily. 

Notex 

1. It is impossible to state the exact quantity of flour required, since the quantity 
depends on the thickness of the chocolate paste. The cake batter should drop by the stiff 
spoonful, that is, it should barely drop; if it is too stiff to drop, add a little water. 

2. One white of egg is sufficient for a boiled frosting for this recipe. 

3. The class recipe requires careful work, such as: 

Level measurements of melted chocolate, etc. 
Removal of excess chocolate from tmder part of spoon 
Cooking of chocolate and water to a very thick paste 



60 LESSONS IN COOKERY 

Boiled Frosting 



Ingredients: 










Recipe I 


Recipe II 


Recipe III 


Granulated sugar 


Ic. 


Ic. 


Ic. 


Water 


J^c. 


He. 


'Ac. 


Cream of tartar 


Ket. 


Het. 


Ket. 


White of egg 


1 white 


2 whites 


H c. whites 


Method: 









1. Beat the white of egg until it is stiff and so dry that the gloss is gone. 

2. Mix the sugar, cream of tartar, and water together and stir them over the 
fire until the sugar is dissolved. 

3. Heat without stirring to 238^-244° P., or 114.5°-117.6^ C, according to 
the quantity of white of egg used. (See Note 1.) Wash any crystals from the 
sides of pan by means of a fork wound with wet cheesecloth. 

4. Stirring the white constantly, add the hot sirup to it in a slow, steady 
stream; aim at even cooking of the white. 

6. Beat mixture until it is white, thick, and creamy; a Dover beater is often 
used. 

Notts: 

1. "In making boiled frosting, .... it is possible to vary the amounts of ingredients 
used in proportion to the time of cooking. There are three ingredients essential to the 
making of any so-called boiled frosting, water, sugar, and white of egg. 

"Cream of tartar may be used with good effect, for it gives the frosting a creamy con- 
sistency, but if none is at hand the same effect may be produced by substituting vinegar 
or by increasing the amount of water and thus prolonging the time of cooking. When the 
amount of white of egg used in a recipe is increased^ the temperature to which the sugar solution 
is cooked should he increased 

^^ Recipe I is the old standard recipe and makes a rather dense, sweet frosting. The 
sugar solution should be cooked to 238® F., the soft ball stage 

^^ Recipe II makes a fluffy frosting. The sugar solution should be cooked to a tempera- 
ture of 244® F., the beginning of the hard ball stage, because of the increased amotmt of 
white of egg used 

^^ Recipe III is the best recipe to use because it calls for the careful measurement of all 
ingredients, including the white of egg."^ 

2. A good class recipe is as follows: 

3 tb. sugar 

2 tb. water 

3 tb. beaten white (wire egg-beater used) 

4 d. flavoring 

Boil the sirup imtil a W-W "hair" can be pulled with the finger tip from the end of a 
spoon. One marshmallow is a possible addition to the completed sirup. Beat the sirup 
and white of egg together with a Dover beater. 

iThe three sets of ingredients for boiled frosting, as well as Note 1, are taken from the Cornell 
Reading-Courses, Making Cake, Part II, by Katharine H. Mills. 



DIET FOR ADULTS 61 

3. Variations in ingredients for frosting: 

a. Any of the following ingredients, singly or in any combination, may be added 
to the frosting just before it is spread on the cake: 

3^1 1. flavoring extract 

J^-J^ c. shredded coconut 

j4-}^ c. chopped nuts or fruit, such as dates, cherries, figs, or raisins 

1-2 squares of chocolate, melted in a double boiler. (Use 1 t. chocolate 

in the class recipe; see Note 2.) 
Yolk of egg, beaten 

b. Marshmallows may be melted in the sirup just before it is added to the white 
of egg, 

c. The following are possible substitutes for part or all of the granulated sugar: 

Brown sugar Honey, strained 

Maple sugar Glucose (Karo com sirup, etc.) 

The more glucose used in making boiled frosting and candies, the lower the 

temperature to which the sirup should be brought; see pages 99-100. 

Boiled frosting (made with 1 white of egg to 1 c. sugar) and fondant are both 

cooked to the soft-ball stage. 

d. The following are possible substitutes for part or all of the water: 

Strong coffee Milk (often used with brown sugar) 

Fruit juice Etc. 

4. If a thermometer is not available, use the following tests for the sirup: 

o. Two drops form on edge of spoon and then form into one drop. 

b, A silken and delicate thread is formed when the sirup drops from the tines 
of a fork. When 2 whites of eggs are to be used, the thread, or hair, should 
be about 2*^ long; if 1 white is to be used, it should be a little less than 2". 

5. If the sirup for frosting (or fondant) is cooked too long, add a little water and reboil. 

6. Variations in method for frosting: 

o. To secure a boiled frosting which hardens only on the outside and is creamy 
imdemeath: 

(1) Before the sirup is quite done, add a little of it to the beaten white, 
and beat well. 

(2) When the remainder of sirup is done, add it to (1). 

b. To secure a springy frosting, excellent for use with a pastry tube in orna- 
menting cakes: 

(1) Prepare a boiled frosting. 

(2) Beating constantly, cook frosting in a double boiler until it is fluffy. 
See Making Cake, Part II, for three possible methods for boiled frosting, including detailed 

directions for a and b immediately preceding. 

7. Larned says: "Cover warm cakes with cold frostings, and cold cakes with warm 
frostings." 

8. In frosting small cakes, it is well to use Recipe II rather than Recipe I (see page 60), 
since Recipe II stiffens less quickly than Recipe I. 

9. Variations in a frosted cake: 

o. After a white frosting has hardened somewhat, pour melted chocolate (bitter 
or sweet) over it to form a Ke'' layer. 

b. Use melted chocolate for initial and design work on a white-frosted cake. 

c. Sprinkle freshly grated coconut on a frosted cake. 



62 LESSONS IN COOKERY 

White Mountain Cream ^ 

Ingredients: 

1 c. sugar I 

H c. boiling water f ^^^^^ *° *^^ threading stage 

1 white of egg, beaten stiff 

1 1. vanilla (or ^ tb. lemon juice) 

Method: 

See general method for boiled frosting, page 60. 

GARNISHES FOR DESSERTS (CAKES, PUDDmOS, ETC.) 

/. Fruits: 

Raw (strawberries, pomegranate seeds, etc.) 
Dried (dates, figs, etc.) 
Canned, preserved, or made into a compote 
Candied or crystallized, such as: 

Apricots 

Cherries 

Citron (sliced, grated, or cut in the shape of leaves, etc.) 

Orange or Jemon peel (sliced or grated) 

Pineapple 
Glac6d (orange sections, white grapes, etc.) 

//. Frostings (white or tinted), such as: 
Simple boiled 

Ornamental (see recipe in any standard cookbook) 
Fondant (small cakes are dipped in melted fondant) 
Butter (similar to hard sauce) 

///. Nuts (whole, shaved, shredded, chopped, ground, or glac^d), such as: 
Almonds (see Note 6) 
Brazil nuts 

Coconut, dry shredded, browned in an oven; or fresh 
Pistachio nuts 

IV. Miscellaneous garnishes: 

Angelica stalks (cut in the shape of leaves, stems, etc.) 

Candies (dainty and small) 

Candles (white or colored) 

Cream, whipped (tinted or not) 

Ginger root, candied or preserved 

Jellies, clear, made of fruit or gelatin (if very stiff, these may be made especially 

attractive by being forced through a ricer) 
Macaroons, ground 
Meringue 
Sauces, sweet 

Sugar, granulated (red, yellow, etc.) 
Sugar, powdered 
Violets, candied 
1 Adapted from Farmer, Boston Cooking-School Cook Book, page 528. 



DIET FOR ADULTS 63 

/ 
Notes: 

1. Many of the items listed are valued chiefly for their color. Pupil to specify which 
of the garnishes may be used as a source of each of the following: 

Green 
Red 
Yellow 
White 

2. Pupil to check those items which are used, as a rule, on cakes only. 

3. Pupil to supply data for the following table: 



Food 



Plain cake 

Fancy birthday cake . 

Ice cream 

Rice pudding 



Suitable Garnishes 



4. A paper fimnel (in preference to a cloth pastry bag) is desirable for decorating cakes 
with ornamental frosting, whipped cream, etc. ; cut different tips for different purposes, and 
use one fimnel for stems, one for leaves, etc. 

A pastry bag is of much use in general cooking; for example, in making mints and other 
candies, cream puffs and Eclairs, potato roses, etc. 

5. The following points apply in a general way to the decoration of cakes and puddings, 
to the garnishing of salads, etc. 

a. Design: Only the simplest of designs should be used. The decoration of 
any one dish should be according to one motive or central idea; a cake must 
be made a imit as to design or color. (Dainty line work is often effective; 
use long, hairlike strips of crystallized fruits, etc. Strips of angelica rolled 
in dainty pink and white candies make a very pretty cake decoration.) 

h. Color: Delicate tints are usually permissible, but much color, such as red or 
• green, is not in good taste. Green, especially, should be used sparingly. 

c. All work in design and color, offers opportimity for the following: 
Instruction of the cooking class by the school art instructor 
Display of originaHty on the part of the pupil 

6. Note the simpler way to prepare ground almonds: 

o. Blanch almonds, then cut them in medium-sized pieces. 
h. Brown the nuts, and roll them into crumbs. 
Ground almonds are sometimes prepared as follows: 

a. Blanch the nuts, then soak them in cold water several hours. 

h. Drain, cover with sugar, and roll them to a meal with a rolling pin. 

c. Bake imtil golden brown. 



FLOUR MIXTURES: DOUGHS 

COOKIES 

(Optional lesson) 
Cookies are derived from cake batters containing fat. 

Sweet-Milk Sugar Cookies 



Ingredients: 




}4th. 


H c. fat 


Itb. 


1 c. sugar 


It. 


1 eggy beaten well 


Htb. 


J^ c. milk (or water) 


2tb. ■ 


2 c. bread flour 


Ht. 


2 t. baking powder 


dash 


M t. salt 


to roll 


Flour enough for a soft roll dough (1 c. or more) 



Method: 

1. Mix all ingredients except the last named by any of the cake methods given 
on pages 55-57, preferably the creamed-fat method. 

2. Add sufficient flour to make a dough just stiff enough to roll, and roll it to 
J^*' thickness on a floured board. (Work with the mixture as soft as possible, 
since excess flour toughens.) 

8. Cut with a cooky-cutter, sprinkle or not with granulated sugar, place cookies 
in floured or greased pans, and bake 8-15 min. in a moderate oven, 350®-400°F., 
or 176°-204°C. 

Notes: 

1. Any of the following ingredients may be added: 

Caraway seeds 
Chocolate, melted 
Nuts, chopped 
Spice 
Fruit: 
Currants 
Dates, chopped 
Raisins, chopped 

2. If desired, brush the cookies with eggy or milk and eggy before sprinkling them with 
sugar. Groimd almonds or other nuts may be substituted for sugar. 

3. Any cake recipe containing fat may be used for cookies if only one-third to one-half 
the quantity of milk called for is used. 

64 



DIET FOR ADULTS 



65 





Sour-Cream Sugar Cookies 




(0/ high caloric value) 


Ingredients: 




It. 


Mcfat 


Itb. 


1 c. sugar 


It. 


1 egg, beaten well 


Mtb. 


J^ c. thick sour cream 


2tb. 


i c. bread flour 


Hit. 


5it.Roda 


dash 


J^t.salt 


dash 


yi t. cinnamon 


toroU 


Flour enough for a soft roll dough (J^lM c.) 



Method: 

Use the same method as for sweet-milk sugar cookies (sour cream takes the 
place of milk). Bake cookies in a moderate oven, not cooler than 380®-390°P., or 
193°-198^ C. 



BAKING-POWDER BISCmTS AND THEIR DERIVATIVES 



Roll BiscuiU 

Ingredients: (Soft dough) 

2 c. pastry flour 
4 t. baking powder 
J^t. salt 

2-4 tb. butter or a substitute (see Notes 1 and 2) 
% c. cold milk or water, or a mixture of the two 



4tb. 
Ht. 
Met. 

IH t. (or 1 t.) 
2 t., or a little 
less 



Method: 

1. Sift the dry ingredients together several times. 

2. Chop in the fat very thoroughly, using a fork or two knives. Avoid using 
the fingers. (Why?) 

3. Add liquid, and with as little mixing as possible make into a dough; use a 
spatula, not a spoon, since the latter packs the dough. 

4. Toss the dough upon a floured board, sprinkle it with flour, and gently pat 
or roll the dough to 3^*^-1' thickness. Avoid much flour. Keep dough as soft 
and spongy as can be patted into shape; it should be too sticky to take up with the 
hands. 

6. Shape dough into small biscuits by means of a cutter dipped into flour. 

6. Pack biscuits tightly together on a lightly floured pan (such as an iron sheet) 
and bake 12-20 min. in a hot oven, that is, about 437° F., or 225° C. A greased 
pan may be used, but is not so good. 

Notes: 

1. All the ingredients should be cold — ice-cold if possible. However, it has been 
proved that melted fat may be used in making baking-powder biscuits if due care is taken 
to beat it thoroughly into the dry ingredients. Experiments have shown that biscuits 
so made compare favorably both as to tenderness and as to texture with those made with 
cold solid fat. 

2. If oil is used as the fat in baking-powder biscuits, make the following changes in the 
recipe: 

a. Use less milk or water. 

b. Mix the oil with the milk or water rather than with the dry ingredients. 

3. Drop, or emergency, biscuits are made more quickly and are often a convenience in 
camp or other cooking. The ingredients are the same as for roll biscuits, except for the 
addition of a little extra milk or water; the drop dough should be spongy and just stiff 
enough to drop and to stand up with stiff projections. Use 2-2Ji t. liquid in the class 
recipe. The method is the same as for roll biscuits, except that the dough is dropped by 
the spoonful into greased muffin tins; dough should be rough on top. 

66 



DIET FOR ADULTS . 67 

4. It is sometimes asserted that biscuits are better if treated as follows: 

a. Mold biscuits and place them in a tin. 

h. Let biscuits stand 15 min. at room temperature before placing them in the 
oven. 
Give a possible reason for this method. 

5. Characteristics of good biscuits: 

Rough on the surface 

Fluffy, and so tender that they snap off easily 

Crumby 
Characteristics of poor biscuits: 

Smooth on the surface 

Rubber-like 

In layers 
Biscuit dough is never so tender if rolled out the second time; hence, in cutting, it is 
well to crowd up the dough with the biscuit cutter so that when ,the one cutting is finished 
no dough is left on the board. Draw dough under cutter by means of cutter. 

6. Note possible variations in the ingredients for biscuits: 

a. Biscuits made with pastry flour are more delicate in texture than those made 
with bread flour. Excellent biscuits can be made from whole-wheat or graham 
flour. A great variety of biscuits can be made by the use of substitutes 
for wheat flour, such as: 

Rye or barley flour (used in part) 

Mashed potatoes (see recipe for potato biscuits, Food Economy , page 103) 
(See Food Economy y pages 165-170, for the rules for wheat substitutes in flour 
mixtures in general.) 
6. In making roll or drop biscuits, use either a plain dough such as the given 
recipe, or use this dough made rich with one or more of the following: 

Sugar Extra fat, or shortening (see use in shortcake) 

Egg Dried fruit (dates, raisins, apricots, etc.) 

Spice Citron, candied orange peel, or crystallized ginger 

Cocoa Etc. 

Peanut butter or rich cheese, grated, may be used as part or all of the fat in 
making biscuits. Biscuit dough containing fruit is sometimes good baked 
in loaf rather than in biscuit form. Any of the following may be sprinkled 
on top of the biscuits (or scones) before baking: 

Cinnamon or other spice 

. Granulated sugar 

Dried fruit (washed, dried, and rubbed with flour),- such as: 
Raisins, currants, or cherries 
Citron or candied orange peel, chopped 
Etc. 
A single raisin, currant, cherry, or cube of citron or orange peel is often suffi- 
cient for the top of a biscuit or scone. 

Either of the following glazes may be applied to biscuits shortly before they 
are removed from the oven: 

Milk 

Sugar and water (1-2 tb. sugar to 1 c. water) 



68 LESSONS IN COOKERY 

c. Good biscuits, often a source of economy, may be made by the substitution 
of thick sour milk and soda for the sweet milk and part of the baking powder 
of ordinary biscuits. Use ^ t. soda to every cup of sour milk; in addition to 
the soda, use 1 1. baking powder to each cup of flour used. 

7. The following derivatives of biscuit dough, as a rule, contain neither sugar nor fruit: 

Dumplings for stew Savory biscuits 

Crust for meat pie Scones 

Nut bread Cheese sticks 

The first three recipes listed in this note are usually derived from drop-biscuit dough, 
the others from roll dough; no set rule can be given regarding this point. 

The following is an excellent method for savory biscuits: 

a. Roll biscuit dough to Ji*' thickness and spread with one or more of the 
following: 

Grated cheese Peanut or almond butter 

Chopped almonds or other nuts Ground meat or fish 

b. Roll dough like a jelly-roll, slice it in l*" pieces, stand each piece on end, and 
bake in a hot oven. 

Savory biscuits may also be made by the use of cheese or other protein material placed 
between two or three flat layers of dough. Cut the whole mass with a biscuit-cutter. 

Scones 

Method: 

1. Roll biscuit dough to J^'-H'^ thickness. 

2. Cut it into any of the following forms: 

Circles Triangles (such as 4'^) 

Squares Quarter circles or new moons 

Diamonds Etc. 

8. Cook in either of two ways: 

a. Place scones in a greased and floured tin and bake 15-25 min. in a 
hot oven (see Note 1). 

b. Cook scones 10 min. on a floured griddle, then turn and cook them 
10 min. on the other side. Allow opportunity for rising by avoiding 
too high a temperature. 

Notes: 

1. It is well to treat scones as follows before placing them in the oven: 

a. Brush with any of the following glazes: 

1 tb. sugar dissolved in 4 tb. milk 
Whole egg or white of egg slightly beaten 
Melted butter, or a substitute 

b. Sprinkle with sugar and cinnamon. 

2. If preferred, a drop batter, 2:1, may be made by the use of less flour in the biscuit 
recipe. Drop batter by the spoonful on a greased griddle and turn scones when they are 
brown and light. 

3. One large scone, enough for an entire family, may be made if desired. 

4. Genuine Scotch scones are made of fine oat flour and the same proportion of shortening 
as is used in pie crust; no leaven is used. 



FRinT DESSERTS; PUDDING SAUCES 

Only those fruit desserts which have a foundation of biscuit or other dough 
are considered in this chapter. (Certain fruit desserts made with dough, such as 
fruit pies, are considered elsewhere.) 

The following table contains a list of eight fruit desserts and the doughs com- 
monly used in their preparation; each of the desserts contains sugar as well as 
dried or fresh fruit. (For a recipe for apple strudel, see pages 79-81.) 



Plain Biscuit Dough 

(SWKET- 

OR Sour-Milk) 


Biscuit Dough (Swket- 
OR Sour-Milk) Made 
Rich with One or 
More of the Follow- 
ing: Eggs. Bxtra Pat, 
Sugar 


Pastry 


Dough 


I. Pinwheel rolls 


Pinwheel rolls 


Pinwheel rolls 


Pinwheel rolls 


II. Dutch apple cake 


Dutch apple cake 


* Dutch apple cake 


Dutch apple cake 


III. Roly-poly (dumpling) 


Roly-poly 


Roly-poly 


Roly-poly 


IV. Cornucopias 


Cornucopias 


Cornucopias 


Cornucopias 


V. Pudding steamed in 


Pudding steamed 






molds 


in molds 






VI. Cobbler 


Cobbler 


Cobbler 




VII. Pungy (extra plain 








dough is used) 








VIII. Shortcake 


Shortcake 


Shortcake 





Notes: 

1. A plain cake batter (such as sponge cake) may also be used as the basis of cobbler 
or shortcake. Is it possible to use cooky or cracker dough in preparing cornucopias or 
any of the other eight recipes? 

When biscuit dough is used, Nos. V, VI, and VII are usually made from drop dough, 
the others from roll dough; however, no set rule can be given concerning this point, inasmuch 
as shortcake and some of the other dishes can be prepared from either drop or roll dough. 
All eight desserts, as well as others made from biscuit dough, are usually simple in char- 
acter, and therefore much more wholesome than pastry for children and adults. 

2. Note the following recommendations for the class: 

a. Each pupil, by assignment, to make one or two of the desserts listed; in this 
way all eight can be prepared in the one lesson. 

b. Biscuit dough (class recipes as follows) to be used in making all the desserts: 

In preparing desserts Nos. I, II, III, and IV, use the class recipe for roll- 
biscuit dough, page 66; in preparing Nos. V and VI, follow the class- 
recipe directions for drop-biscuit dough given in Note 3, page 66. 

In making fungy and shortcake, use the class recipes given on page 75. 



70 LESSONS IN COOKERY 

L Pinwheel Rolls 
Method: 

1. Roll dough to l^"-}^" thickness (for possible doughs, see table, page 69). 

2. Spread dough with a little melted fat, brown or white sugar, spice, and a 
choice of the following fruits, chopped in most cases: 

Fresh fruit (huckleberries, etc.) 

Stewed fruit or jams 

Dried fruit, soaked until plump, such as: 

Apricots 

Citron 

Currants 

Dates 

Raisins 

Strawberries 

8. Roll dough like a jelly roll, then cut in slices %'-!' thick. 

4. Tiun each slice, or small roll, on end. Cones may be formed, if preferred, 
by squeezing one end of each roll to a point. 

6. Bake rolls 10-15 min. in a hot oven. If desired, spread theroUs (tops only) 
with brown-sugar sirup shortly before they are done, then brown them well. 

Notes: 

1. Ground maple sugar may be substituted for the filling of fat, sugar, spice, and fruit 
called for in step 2. 

2. Rolls may be baked in muflfin rings or pans, if preferred. 

3. If an unsweetened dough is used, grated cheese, ground peanuts, etc., may be sub- 
stituted for fruits in this recipe. 

4. Pinwheel rolls, sweet or savory, are generally used as a breadstuff. They are good 
with salad or afternoon tea. If a sauce is added to the sweet rolls, they may be used as a 
dessert for children, etc. 

IL Dutch Apple Cake 

Method: 

1. Spread a drop dough to ^/^^-V thickness in a shallow pan, or else roll a 
dough to the same thickness and then place it in the pan (for possible doughs, 
see table, page 69). ' 

2. Pare tart apples, quarter and core them, and slice each quarter into halves 
lengthwise. 

8. Arrange slices of apple in parallel rows on top of the dough, the sharp edges 
down. 

4. Sprinkle apples with sugar, cinnamon, and lemon juice. 

6. Bake cake in a hot oven 20-30 min., or until the apples are tender. 

6. Serve with cream and sugar, or with lemon juice. 



DIET FOR ADULTS 71 

III. Roly-Poly 

(A baked or steamed dumpling) 
Method: 

1. Make any one of the following types of rolls (for possible doughs to be 
used, see table on page 69): 

a. Eitvelope roll: 

(1) Roll dough to Ji*' thickness, then cut it into 4*'-8' squares. 

(2) Place filling (not too moist) in the center of each square. 

(3) Moisten the edges of each square with cold water and fold 
in the four comers until they meet in the center. 

(4) Press the edges together rather firmly. 

b. Pocketbook roll: 

(1) Roll dough to }i'' thickness. 

(2) Cut dough into rounds with a large, floured cooky-cutter. 

(3) Spread one-half of each round with filling; then fold round in 
halves and press the edges together. 

c. Crescent roll: 

(1) Prepare a pocketbook roll. 

(2) Ptill the straight edge of the roll until a crescent is formed. 

d. Jelly roll: 

(1) Roll dough into an oblong shape of Ji*^-^' thickness, and 
spread with a thin layer of fruit. Add sugar and spice, if 
desired. 

(2) Roll like a jelly roll; do not roll tight. 

2. Bake the roll in a moderate or hot oven until the crust is done and the 
fruit is tender; or place roll on a greased plate and steam it 25-30 min. or longer. 
The steaming process requires more time than baking. (Why?) 

3. Serve with cream and sugar or a pudding sauce. 

Notes: 

1. Possible fruits (left-overs, etc.) for use as filling are as follows: 

Fresh fruit, raw or stewed (such as sliced apples or peaches) 
Canned fruit, or a very stiff jam or jelly 
Dried fruit, stewed or simply soaked until pltmip, such as: 
Dates 

Figs (good cooked with sugar to a paste) 
Raisins 
Add sugar and spice, if desired. Avoid excess juice. 
Pupil to bring jam or other fruit filling from home. 

2. Individual dimiplings are usually made, although one large dtmipling may be made. 

3. Strawberry snowball, a pretty form of dimipling, is made as follows: 

a. Steam a spherical biscuit 20-30 min. (The biscuit may be baked, but it is 
not so white if cooked in this way.) 

b. Serve with a sauce made by mixiilg equal quantities of hard sauce and crushed 
berries. 



72 LESSONS IN COOKERY 

4. In steaming any fruit dtimplings in class, make use of either of the following sug- 
gestions: 

a. A ntmiber of pupils, collectively, to use a large steamer: 

(1) Place a buttered plate in the steamer, leaving a ^"^ margin for steam. 

(2) Place dumplings on plate. 

b. Each pupil to use a small steamer: 

(1) Line a small sieve with a square of cheesecloth, and place a ^"^ 
layer of dry flour on the cloth. 

(2) Place a dumpling on flour. 

(3) Place sieve over a deep saucepan of boiling water, such as the top of 
a double boiler used by itself. 

(4) Cover tight, and steam dtmipling 25-^30 min. A piece of cheesecloth, 
slipped just beneath the cover, is sometimes of aid in preventing a 
soggy pudding. Why? 

(5) When dumpling is done, scrape off the flour on bottom; dtunpling 
should not be at all soggy. 

A tight cover is essential in either (a) or (6), for if steam is allowed to condense in or on 
dumplings (or any other steamed flour mixture) a soggy and indigestible product results. 

6. Savory dumplings may be made from unsweetened dough by the use of meat, fish, 
cheese, or any other protein-food filling, well seasoned (see Food Economy, pages 99-100). 

IV. Cornucopias (Cones) 
Method: 

1. Grease comucopia molds made of stiff paper or of tin (see Note 1). 

2. Stuff the molds with paper, except when they are made of very stiff paper 
or of tin. 

3. Cover each mold with dough (for possible doughs, see table, page 69). 
Apply the dough in the following manner: 

a. Roll dough to ^^'^ thickness (possibly J^*' in the case of pastry), then 
cut in J^M*' strips. 

6. Wind the strips around and around the mold, beginning at the tip. 
Use a little cold water to fasten the dough at the tip and where the 
strips join or overlap. (Overlapping is better, as a rule.) 

4. Lay cornucopias on a greased pan, and bake them in a hot oven. 
6. Remove any paper used as stuffing. 

6. Serve the cornucopias hot or cold as a dessert, after filling them with any 
of the following: 

Fresh fruit (strawberries, sliced oranges, etc.) 
Dried fruit (dates, figs, etc.) 
Stewed or canned fruit (cherries, peaches, etc.) 
Jam or jelly 

Whips (such as white-of -egg whip, page 195) 
Whipped cream, flavored 
Ice cream 
Serve with or without pudding sauce. 



DIET FOR ADULTS 73 

Noies: 

1. A dass biscuit recipe with a basis of 4 tb. flour is sufficient to cover one mold made 
from a 4:" square of paper. After rolling the paper to form the cone, twist the tip in such 
a way as to fasten it well; a little paste, applied in one spot only, will be found sufficient 
to hold the top of the cone in place. 

2. If desired, make ''complete" dishes by filling the cones with creamed chicken or 
other protein food (see Pood Economy, page 64). 

V. Pudding Steamed in Molds 

Method: 

1. Cut or chop fruit in small pieces, tising the following singly or in any com- 
bination: 

Raw fresh fruit (apples, blueberries, cranberries, etc.) 

Stewed dried fruits (figs, apricots, etc.) 

Stewed fresh fruits 

Raw dried fruits (dates, raisins, currants, etc.) 

Add sugar and spice to the fruits, as desired. Stewed fruits, when used, 
should be cold. 

2. Mix or fold fruit into the dough (for possible doughs, see table, page 69). 
8. Fill greased baking-powder cans or other molds two-thirds full of dough. 
4. Cook pudding in either of the following ways: 

a. Place molds in a steamer and steam 20-60 nun., the time depending 

chiefly upon the size of pudding. 
6. Drop cans directly into boiling water and boil 20-60 min. The 
following are essential points regarding the cans: 
Tight covers 

Waterproof bottoms and sides 

Cans to stand upright in the water, and the covers not to be sub- 
merged 

6. If pudding appears at all moist, even though done, dry it 10-15 min. in 
the oven. 

6. Serve with cream and sugar or hard or other pudding sauce. 

Noiet: 

1. Because of the varying quantities of fruit juice, the wetting (water or milk) used in 
the dough must be a variable quantity. The pudding is soggy and indigestible if too much 
wetting is used; hence dried fruits, unstewed, are the safest fruits to use. 

Note the following general rules for fruits: 

a. A stiff dough should be used with a very soft fruit, and vice versa. 

b. Avoid juice of fruits unless it is used as part of the regular wetting of dough. 

2. If preferred, dough and fruit may be put into the can in alternate layers, with a 
possible total of two or three layers of fruit and two or three layers of dough. 

3. Can the pudding be steamed if the dough is placed directly in the greased top of a 
double boiler? 

6 



74 LESSONS IN COOKERY 

4. The best way to cook this pudding in class is as follows: 

a. Place dough in a sample baking-powder can; the smaller the can, the more 
attractive the shape of the pudding when it is done. 

b. Drop can, tightly covered, directly into boiling water. Do not touch for 
20-30 min. (No baking is necessary.) 

VI. Cobbler 

Method: 

1. Butter a baking dish and cover the bottom of it with fruit properly sweet- 
ened; allow plenty of fruit juice, else the cobbler will bum. Select the fruits from 
the following list, remembering that acid fruits, such as cranberries or cherries, 
are especially desirable in this dessert: 

Fresh fruit, raw: 

Apples 

Apricots 

Cranberries 

Huckleberries 

Oranges 

Peaches 

Strawberries 

Etc. 
Fresh fruit, stewed, made into jams, etc. 
Dried fruits, stewed (pnmes, apricots, etc.) 
Dried fruits, raw (dates, figs, etc.) 

2. Cover the fruit with ^/i"-!" of either a drop or a roll dough (for possible 
doughs, see table and comment, page 69). 

8. Bake pudding 15-30 min. in a hot oven. 

4. Serve with cream and sugar or with hard or other pudding sauce; hot 
pudding sauce made with fruit juice (see page 78) is often desirable. 

Notes: 

1. One large pudding may be made, or several small puddings. Turn them from the 
molds before serving them, if desired. 

2. Cranberry sauce for use in class is as follows: 

2-4 tb. water 
2 tb. berries 
2 tb. sugar 

3. Meat or fish pies are made on the order of fruit cobblers by the substitution of meat 
or fish for the fruit. Cheap cuts of meat may be used. Cover meat with gravy before 
adding the dough. 

VII. Fungy 

(Dumplings stewed in a fruit sauce) 
Method: 

1. Stew blueberries or other fruit and sweeten them to taste. 



DIET FOR ADULTS 75 

2. Prepare a very plain drop-biscuit dough as follows (compare with meat- 
stew dumplings) : 

4 tb. 2 c. pastry flour 

3^ t. 4 t. baking powder 

He t. M t. salt 

It. 2 tb. fat 

2-2Ji t. Water or milk for a drop dough, that is, a little more than % c. 

3. Drop dough by the tablespoonful into the boiling hot fruit; cover tight; 
allow the fruit to boil 12-15 min., or until the dtunplings are very light, then 
turn the latter like doughnuts, and boil them 1-3 min. longer. 

4. Serve with cream and sugar. 

Note: 

Blueberry f ungy is a Nova Scotia recipe and was derived from the Indians. 

VIII. Shortcake 

{Prepared from biscuit dough) 

Method: 

1. Roll the following biscuit dough to Yi^^A!' thickness and shape into rounds 
the size of pie tins: 



4tb. 
Mt. 
Ket. 
2t. 

2 t. (or a 
little less) 



2 c. pastry flour 

4 t. baking powder 

Yt, t. salt 

J^ c. fat 

H—H c. milk or water 



2. Bake the dough in the pie tins 10-15 min. in a hot oven, 437° F., or 225° C. 

3. Split the dough with a fork while it is hot, add a choice of the following 
fruits, then sprinkle with sugar: 

Stewed fruit 
Raw fruit, such as: 

Apricots, sliced 

Peaches, sliced 

Strawberries, crushed 

Oranges, sliced and sug'ar added 

Bits of butter and plain or whipped cream are also possible additions to the 
filling. 

One-half a raw orange is sufficient for use with the class recipe for iiough. 

4. Place halves of shortcake together and garnish with one or more of the 
following: 

Fruit (such as whole strawberries or orange sections) 

Powdered sugar 

Sweetened whipped cream (whip cream just before serving) 



76 



LESSONS IN COOKERY 



Notes: 

1. The given recipe is for a short dough; that is, it contains more fat, or shortening, than 
ordinary biscuit dough. If desired, a little sugar may be added to the dough, or eggs may 
be substituted for part of the milk or water. A rich dough is generally used in shortcake 
for adults, but for children it is well to use^a plain dough containing no sugar and only the 
minimum quantity of fat. 

2. Shortcake is sometimes baked as follows: 

a. Roll biscuit dough as thin as for sugar cookies, that is, about one-half as thick 
as for biscuits. 

b. Cut dough into large rounds (size of a pie plate) or into small rounds (size of 
cookies, and good for individual shortcakes). 

c. Butter the top of a round. 

d. Place a second rotmd on top of it, and bake. 

e. Separate the two, add fruit filling, and garnish. 
The rounds may be baked separately, if preferred. 



PUDDING SAUCES 

I. Solid or semisolid sauces, such as: 

Hard sauce (an uncooked sauce) 
Fruit jellies 
II. Liquid or semi-liquid sauces: 

Thickened with starchy material (see general recipe, page 78) 
Thickened with egg, such as: 

Soft custard 

Creamy sauce 

Yellow sauce 
Not thickened with starch or egg, such as: 

Sirup sauces (such as caramel) 

Fruit juices (boiled down until as thick as heavy cream) 

Cream (whipped or not), sweetened and flavored 



Ingredients: 

It. 

Itb. 

2d. 



Hard Sauce 

Recipe I 

}4 c. butter 

% c. powdered or granulated sugar 

}4 t. vanilla 



Recipe II 



It. 


J^ c. butter 


2t. 


J^ c. brown sugar 


4d. 


J^ t. vanilla 


J^t. 


2 tb. milk or cream 



Recipe III 

Ji c. butter 

}/i c. powdered sugar 

J^ t. vanilla 

J^ yolk of egg, unbeaten or beaten 

Nutmeg, grated 

Recipe IV 

Ji c. butter 

J^ c. powdered sugar 

J^ white of a large egg, unbeaten 

2t. cream 

Nutmeg, grated 

Dash of cinnamon 



DIET FOR ADULTS 77 

Method: 

Use this method with all four sets of ingredients, as well as with any other variations. 

1. Cream the butter, add sugar, and beat until mixture is very smooth and 
Ught. 

2. Add flavoring extract, if any is called for. 

3. Add any remaining liquid, such as milk, cream, or yolk or white of egg\ 
with the exception of the yolk, add the liquid almost drop by drop so as to prevent 
curdling. 

4. Beat the entire mixture very thoroughly, and shape it into small balls, or 
place it in a mold, such as an orange shell. 

6. Sprinkle with nutmeg, if this is called for, and chill. 
6. Slice, and serve on hot puddings. 

Naies: 

1. The first set of ingredients given is the one ordinarily used. 

2. A delicious sauce (especially good on cooked rice) is made by beating the following 
together thoroughly just before time for serving: 

1 c. hard sauce (any kind) 

1-2 c. crushed fruit (such as strawberries, raspberries, or cherries) 
No harm results from a curdled appearance of the sauce. The sauce is less likely to 
curdle if it is beaten constantly and the fruit is added gradually. One authority asserts 
that the mixture is less likely to ctirdle if honey is substituted for sugar in the hard sauce. 

3. Stiflfly beaten white of egg is sometimes added to plain liard sauce or to the fruit 
hard sauce mentioned in Note 2. (See recipes in standard cookbooks.) 

4. Except where the yolk of egg is already present as coloring matter, pink or another 
tint may be added to hard sauce. 



Caramel Sauce 



Ingredients: 

2tb. 
3tb. 



1 c. granulated sugar 
1 c. boiling water 



Method: 

!• Stir the sugar over a fire until it is melted into a light brown sirup. (The 
temperature of this melted sugar is very high, hence beware of burning the fingers.) 
2. Add boiling water, and stir to dissolve any lumps formed. 

Notes: 

1. Explain the formation of so many bubbles when the water is added to the sirup. 
Why is it a little better not to add cold water? Why does the sirup tend to harden or con- 
tract into limips when the water is added? What is the temperature of boiling water? 
the temperature of caramel? 

2. Caramel flavoring, made the same as caramel sauce except for the reduction of the 
quantity of water added to the melted sugar, may be kept in bottles and be used for ice 
creams, etc. 



78 



LESSONS IN COOKERY 



Ingredients: 

Ji tb. corn- 
starch 
dash 
0-1 tb. 
3tb. 



to taste 



Hot Pudding Sauce 

IJ^ tb. cornstarch (or H tb. arrowroot or 2J^ tb. flour) 

t. salt 
0-Ji c. sugar (granulated, brown, or maple) 
1 c. cold liquid, selected singly or in any combination from the following: 

Water 

Milk (fresh or condensed) 

Cream 

Fruit juice, mild (such as grape) 

Jelly or jam, diluted with water to consistency of thin cream 

Sirup (such as strained honey or maple sirup), diluted with water 
to consistency of thin cream 
Flavoring if desired, such as: 

Sour fruit juice (lemon, lime, etc.) 

Grated rind of lemons or oranges 

Spice (nutmeg, cinnamon, etc.) 

Butter (about 1 1.) 

Extract, about J^ t. (vanilla, etc.) 

Melted chocolate 

Method: 

1. Mix the dry ingredients together thoroughly. 

2. Add an equal quantity of cold liquid and stir to make a smooth paste. 

3. Add the remainder of liquid, then, stirring constantly, boil the mixture 
3-5 min., or until it is transparent (except in the case of a flour sauce) and as thick 
as cream; if preferred, cook it 15-20 min. in a double boiler. If cornstarch has 
been used as thickening, it is well to allow extra time for cooking. (Why?) 

4. Serve hot (or occasionally cold). Coloring paste and extra flavorings, if 
used, should be added just before the sauce is served. 

Notes: 

1. Coloring paste or chopped fruit or nuts may be added to the sauce. 

2. Arrowroot produces a much clearer sauce than cornstarch. Flour produces an 
opaque sauce. 

3. Use less than the stated quantity of cornstarch (or arrowroot or flour), if preferred. 

4. Egg may be used as part of the thickening. 

5. In making lemon sauce, use 1 c. water, 3 tb. sugar, 1 tb. lemon juice, etc. (Do not 
cook lemon juice, else the flavor is lost.) 

6. Chocolate contains starch, hence in chocolate sauce cornstarch or a substitute is 
not essential. The following hot-fudge sauce is good on pudding, ice cream, etc. : 



3tb. 
Itb. 
It. 
4d. 



H c. cold water or milk 

}4 c. sugar 

J^ square of bitter chocolate, finely grated 

J4 t. vanilla 



DIET FOR ADULTS 



79 



Mix the chocolate with the sugar and proceed with the method for hot pudding 
sauce, allowing about 15 min. for the boiling process. 

7. Explain why hot pudding sauce is considered a derivative of white sauce (see 
Food Economy y pages 68-69). 



Ingredients: 

4tb. 
Het. 
Met. 
2>^t. 

Mt. 



M large 

greening 
8 raisins 

2 meats 
2tb. 



Apple Strudel (Hungarian) 

{Optional lesson) 
{9 or 10 servings) 

Dough: 

1 c. bread flour 
yi t. sugar 

K t. salt 

%Q, (6 tb.) lukewarm water 

2 t. egg, beaten slightly 

2 t. butter or a substitute, melted and cooled 
Fat (about 2 tb.) melted, to sprinkle on the dough just before the stretch- 
ing process; see step 6 
Filling (see Note 1): 

1 tb. fat, melted 

2 qt. thin slices of very tender greenings 

IH 0, raisins or currants (soaked in cold water, then puffed in 

hot water) 
J^-% c. nut meats, chopped (such as almonds) 
l>i c. sugar, dark brown 
1 1* cinnamon 



Method: 

1. Prepare the dough by adding the dry ingredients to a mixture of the three 
wet ingredients. 

2. Beat the dough in a bowl (or on a board) with one hand 8-10 min., or until 
the dough has the following characteristics (see Note 2) : 

a. It is as smooth as satin (no lumps). 

b. It is very soft (like soft biscuit dough). 

c. It does not stick to the fingers or the bowl (dough should be as soft 
as can be worked without having it stick). 

d. It is elastic (ball of dough should not snap in pieces when it is 
stretched). 

3. Place the beaten dough on a floured board, cover it with a warm towel 
(almost hot) and a warm inverted bowl or basin (almost hot), and let it stand, or 
*'mellow," 10-15 min. in a warm place. (Prepare the class recipe for filling 
during this 10-15 min. period.) 

4. Cover a table 3 J^-4 feet square with a smooth white cloth, and sprinkle the 
entire cloth with flour. A discarded tablecloth, starched, may be used. 



80 ' LESSONS IN COOKERY 

6. Place dough in center of cloth, and roll it with a rolling pin until it is about 
1 ft. in diameter. 

6. Sprinkle dough with about 2 tb. melted fat and gently rub it into the 
dough with a spoon (the fat keeps the dough soft). 

7. Let two persons stretch the dough in all directions tmtil it covers the table 
in a sheet as thin as tissue paper and of even thickness; do not tear it. Observe 
the following rules during the stretching process: 

a. Steadily and slowly walking arotmd the table/ place the hands, palms 
up, under the rolled dough and stretch dough very gently. Hold hand 
flat or almost flat, and work with whole hand, that is, whole palm and 
extended fingers; do not bend fingers up to any extent. Use the 
cushions, or inside of fingers, somewhat, but avoid the finger tips; 
the latter tear the dough. 

b. As far as possible, avoid the formation of a thick border by stretching 
any thickened parts that may tend to form (this border wastes the 
dough). 

8. Remove any tough border which may have formed and hangs over the edge 
of table. Shears may be used if desired. 

9. Let dough stand 6-25 min., not tmtil it is brittle, but tmtil it is thought that 
the tissue is so dry that it will not stick when rolled. The number of minutes 
required depends upon the temperature of the room. 

10. Almost cover dough with a thin layer of apple filling. (To prepare the 
filling, mix all the ingredients together in a bowl.) 

11. Roll dough, as follows, like a jelly roll: 

a. Place the hands about a yard apart on the edge of doth. 

b. Holding the edge of cloth high, jerk the cloth in such a way that the 
cloth rolls the dough. Do not touch the hands to the dough. 

Observe the following precautions: 

a. Do not roll the dough before it is really dry, else the strudel will not 
be flaky and like tissue paper. 

b. Roll the dough loosely so as to permit air spaces (air makes recipe 
light) and so as to have the layers separate and flaky and standing 
up lacey in effect, dainty and delicate in texture. 

12. Turn in the ends of roll, fasten the edges securely so that the juices cannot 
escape, then twist the roll into fancy shapes, such as the following: 

Pretzel or letter S 
Coil or circle 
Horseshoe 

13. Place roll in a greased pan, place bits of butter on top, and bake it in a 
moderate oven 40-60 min., or until filling is tender and the roll is crisp and brown. 
Baste roll during the baking if desired, using a little butter or cream. 

14. Serve strudel hot, with cream and powdered sugar, as a dessert. 



DIET FOR ADULTS 81 

Notes: 

1. Various other kinds of strudel may be made by the substitution of the following 
fillings for apple filling: 

Chocolate filling 

Fruit fillings, cooked or raw, such as: 

Cherries, sotir 

Marmalades 

Prunes 
Savory fillings: 

Almonds, chopped 

Cheese, cottage 

Cheese, grated 

Meat or fish, creamed (chicken, salmon, etc.) 

Rice 

Salt and t)lack pepper 
A few bread crumbs should be added to fillings prepared from cherries, berries, and other 
very juicy fruits (the crumbs absorb the juice). 

The use of certain of the savory fillings results in so-called complete dishes. 

2. The vital part of the method is step 2. The success of the recipe seems to consist 
in bringing the gluten of dough to a high degree of elasticity, kneading and warmth being 
the*" agents. (See Food Economy, page 78, Note 2.) Pupil to relate this recipe to other work 
on gluten. 

3. Individual strudel may be made from the large recipe, if preferred. 

4. Strudel is an excellent handwork lesson (requiring 90-120 min.). The class recipe 
for dough covers a board IS*' XI 6*'. Let the pupils bring old starched napkins from home. 

5. Instructor, if possible, to secure for the class a demonstration of strudel by a mother 
expert in making strudel. 



UNLEAVENED BREADS 
Hard-Tack Bread 



ingredients: 




2tb. 


2J4 c. bread flour 


Het. 


14 tb. sugar 


Het. 


H tb. salt 


13^ t. 


Cold water enough for a stiff dough 



Method: 

1. Mix all the ingredients and knead until dough is very elastic. 

2. Roll dough as thin as a soda cracker, prick, score with a knife, and bake 
it in a quick oven. 

Note: 

This bread is quickly made, is wholesome, and keeps like hard-tack. '^ 

Unleavened Com Bread 



Ingredients: 




3tb. 


3 c. com meal 


J^t. 


1 tb. sugar 


dash 


1 1. salt 


Mt. 


1 tb. lard or bacon fat 


2t. 


Boiling water enough to make a stiff dough 



Method: 

1. Mix as for baking-powder biscuits. 

2. Spread dough J/^" deep on the top or bottom of a greased tin and bake it 
in a quick oven until it is crisp and brown on both sides. If desired, turn dough 
over toward the last. 



Ingredients: 

2tb. 

Ket. 

Itb. 

Method: 



Com Dodgers 

(6 dodgers) 
2 c. com meal 
It. salt 
Boiling water enough for a stiff dough 



1. Mix all the ingredients. 

2. Mold dough into either of the following forms: 

Cylindrical or oblong cakes 2 '-3' long and l" in diameter 
Small, fiat cakes about 1' thick 

82 



DIET FOR ADULTS 83 

3. Place cakes on a hot saut^ing pan or griddle containing but little fat, and 
saut^ until they are brown on all sides; do not cook too rapidly. If desired, bake 
for a few minutes in an oven, after saut^ing. 

Notes: 

1. Possible additions to the ingredients are as follows: 

2-3 t. sugar 

1-3 t. lard or other fat 

Egg 

2. The mixture may be rolled into balls the size of hens' eggs, rolled in flour, and baked 
in hot ashes to cover. Cabbage leaves may be wrapped about the cakes before they are 
baked. 

3. Sometimes the cakes are cooked on a board before an open fire. 

4. Hoe-cake, ash cake, com pone, etc., are all similar to com dodgers; com meal, salt, 
and water are the only essential ingredients in all of these. Kafir pone and oat cakes are 
the same except for the kind of meal or flour used. 

5. Com cakes are sometimes cooked in deep fat. 

UNLEAVENED AND LEAVENED BREADSTUFFS FOR CAMP LIFE 

/. Breads containing no eggs or commercial leaven: 
Hard-tack bread 
Com bread 

Corn dodgers (egg sometimes used) 
Salt-rising bread (see Food Economy, page 161) 
Etc. 
//. Baking-powder or soda products: 
Muffins (see page 46) 
Com bread (see page 48) 

Biscuits (either roll or drop) and many of their derivatives (see page 66) 
Steamed suet puddings (see page 50) 
Griddlecakes, such as "Aimt Jemima's" (see page 42) 
Etc. 

Notes: 

1. All leavened flour mixtures, including the foregoing Group II and yeast breads, 
were evolved from flour mixtures containing no leaven; in other words, leavened mixtures 
were of later date than imleavened ones. 

2. The following is a suggestive menu for a camp lunch or supper: 

Fish or clam chowder Com dodgers 

Rice griddlecakes with brown-sugar sirup 



FRurr PIES 



Fruit pies include the following: 
Apple 
Apricot 

Berry (strawberry, etc.) 
Cherry 
Cranberry, or cranberry 

and raisin 
Currant 



Fig 

Mango 

Mincemeat and mock 

mincemeat 
Prune 
Raisin 
Tomato (yellow or green) 

The following directions for apple pie apply in general to all fruit pies. 

Apple Pie 

Method: 

1, Pare any of the following apples, cut them in quarters, core, and slice thin: 

Duchess Maiden blush 

Greening Northern Spy 

Jonathan Rambo 

2, Line a greased pie tin with crust (see page 86), then fill pan with apples 
level with top. (In class use a 3J^'' tin and fill with }4 c- thinly sliced apple — 
about 1 small apple.) 

3, Sprinkle the apples with the following (the small quantities at the left are 
sufiBcient for a 33^' pie) : 

2 t. Sugar, white or brown (about 1-3 tb. to each apple) 

3^ t. Bits of butter 

dash A few dashes of flour 

spk. Dash of salt 

dash A few dashes of nutmeg, allspice, or cinnamon 

dash A little lemon juice, if desired, also grated rind 

1^-1 1. A little water if apples are very dry or hard 

Caution: Do not add water to the apples until just, before putting on the 
upper crust. ( Why ? ) 

4, Brush the edge of the lower crust with water, then add the upper crust. 

6. Roll out the upper crust, and make a few small cuts in it to serve as steam 
vents during baking; fold the crust in two, lift it, and cover the pie. 

6. Press the top and bottom pastes well together on the sides, then trim off 
the surplus paste. 

7. Bake in a moderate oven, 350** P., or 177** C, tmtil the apples are tender 
and the crust is brown. 

84 



DIET FOR ADULTS 



85 



Noies: ^ 

1. Very juicy fruit should be put into a pie just before baking, else the lower crust may 
become soggy. Hence, particularly in class, it is well to observe the following sequence: 

a. Place the fruit in a bowl and mix with the flavorings (sugar, spice, etc.). 

b. Prepare the dough, and fit the lower crust. 

c. Roll out upper crust (and leave it on the board until pie is filled with fruit). 

d. Fill pie, add crust, and bake at once. 

2. Secure a good color for any fruit pie by rubbing the top surface with one of the follow- 
ing washes before placing the pie in the oven: 

Yolk of egg, beaten well with water or milk 
Sugar and water 
Milk alone 

3. It is necessary to stew some apples before using them in pies; most ripe cooking apples 
require no previous cooking. 

4. A little grated cheese may be sprinkled over the flavored apples before the upper 
crust is put on. 

6. Com sirup may be substituted for sugar. Use more than of sugar. Why? What 
change should be made in the quantity of water added to the pie? 

6. A one-crust apple pie is made the same as a two-crust pie except for the following 
changes: 

a. Fill lower crust with raw or stewed apples, using more apples than in a two- 
crust pie, 

b. Add a little water to apples, also sugar, spice, and butter. 

c. Omit upper crust entirely. If preferred, however, cover apples with a lattice 
work of strips of pie crust or puff paste; roll dough as for crust, and cut in 
3^*'-l*' strips; brush edge of lower crust with water before adding these strips. 

d. Bake until apples are tender and brown. 

Bright-colored fruits, such as cherries, make attractive looking lattice-work pies. 



Mock Mincemeat Filling 

Ingredients: (8" pie) 

Thin sauce (made by any of the white-sauce methods) : 

It. 3 tb. flour 

It. 2 tb. butter or a substitute 

J^ c. 2 c. water (or sweet dder) 

Fruit: 

14 black • J^ c. raisins 

1 tb. J^ c. dried currants 

2 t. Ji c. chopped citron (or preserved lemon or orange rind) 
2 tb. 1 c. chopped raw apples 

J^ t. 1-1 H t. mixed spice (cinnamon, cloves, mace, and nutmeg) 

dash H t. salt 

J^ t. It. grated lemon rind 

J^ t. 1 tb. lemon juice 

1-2 t. 34 c. molasses (not strong in flavor) 

It. 2 tb. crab-apple jelly 



86 LESSONS IN COOKERY 

Method: • 

1. Wash the raisins and currants, soak them 1 min. in boiling water, then 
drain them. 

2. Mix all the ingredients in the recipe except the lemon juice, cook them until 
the mixture is as thick as a very stiff drop batter, then add lemon juice. 

Notes: 

1. The class recipe is sufficient for a 3J^*' pie. 

2. If the apples are very sour, add a little sugar to the recipe. 

3. A beaten egg may be added the last thing. 

4. Raisin pie is made by the substitution of raisins (extra) for the currants and apples 
in the given recipe; prune and apricot pies are made in a similar manner. 

5. Another good vegetarian filling is made by the substitution of green tomatoes for 
the meat of real mincemeat. 

Pie Crust 

(A stiff dough) 
Ingredients: (A two-crust 8" pie) 



33^ tb. 

Ket. 

Itb. 



1 c. pastry flour 

}4 t. salt 

}4-}4 c. cold fat, or shortening 

About 3-3J^ tb. cold water (preferably ice-water) 



Method: 

1. Sift together the flour and salt. 

2. Add the fat, and chop until the mixture looks like meal, each little particle 
of fat being coated with flour. Use a fork or two knives. Do not use the fingers. 
(Why?) (If any butter is used, wash it first so as to make it pliable, for, if too hard, 
it will not mix well with the flour, and a tough crust will result.) 

3. Make into a stiff dough by using the smallest quantity of water possible; 
add but a few drops of water at a time and cut it in lightly, but thoroughly. Use 
only enough water to hold the dough together. The dough should not be crumbly, 
nor should it stick to the knife or the bowl. 

4. Toss the entire quantity of dough upon a lightly floured board, and with 
as little handling as possible shape it into a ball. Roll it lightly to 34" thickness', 
then roll it up like a jelly roll; this latter process incloses air. Cut into two slices, 
place each slice in turn on end, and roll it into a thin crust (about 3^'' thick). 

Notes: 

1. Use almost any fat for crust; lard and butter, half and half, yield a very good crust. 
A third as much fat as flour is an average rule. Com and other vegetable oils can often 
be well tised for making pastry.i 

1 Blunt, "Vegetable Oils and Their Use in Cooking," Journal of Home Economics, January, 
1918. 



DIET FOR ADULTS 87 

2. Flour varies greatly, but in general the correct proportion for plain pie crust is about 
twice as much flour as water by weight; for example: 

4 c, or 1 lb. flour 
1 c, or H lb. water 

3. The class recipe is sufficient for one two-crust 3M' pie. The following ingredients 
make one large two-crust pie, or two large one-crust pies : 

IH c. pastry flour 
Ht. salt 
M-H c. fat 

6 tb. water (or less if possible) 
Any scraps of dough left may be made into tarts, cheese straws, etc. 

4. A small quantity of baking powder, such as M t. to 1 c. flour, insures a light crust, 
but it is not essential to a crust made by a good cook. . • 

5. Note a good substitute for step 4 of method: 

a. Form a ball and roll it to H' thickness. (Then, if desired, sprinkle the rolled 
dough with small bits of fat and a little flour.) 

b. Fold the dough so as to form three layers, then continue to fold into another 
set of three layers. 

c. Roll to Ji*' thickness. 

d. Repeat b and c two or three times. 

6. A light touch is essential in the folding and rolling process. Do not press heavily 
upon the rolling pin, else the air caught between the folds will be expelled. Air is necessary 
for producing a crust that is light, crisp, and flaky; lack of air results in a heavy, tough crust. 

7. In what respects is the pie-crust method similar to that for baking-powder biscuits? 



FRIED FOODS 
FRYING OF COOKED FOODS 

Introductory Notes 

1. Cooked foods are either left uncoated or are coated before being fried; note examples 
as follows: . 

a, Uncoated foods: 

Fish balls (such as codfish with potatoes or corn-meal mush) 

b. Foods coated with material which hardens quickly and at a law temperature: 

Croquettes (see "Four Tjrpes of Croquettes," Food Economy, page 83) 
Cooked cereal in slices or cubes (such as com meal or hominy) 
Vegetables (such as parsnips), boiled tmtil almost tender, then sliced 

and dipped in batter 
Stuffed eggs (halves fastened together with toothpicks), rolled in 

crumbs and raw egg 

2. The fat for frying cooked foods should be hot enough to brown a cube of dry bread 
in 40 sec. ; see temperature tests, page 8. Crisco is a good fat for frying becatise it does 
not absorb odors and flavors. (See "General Rules for Frying Any Food," Food Economy, 
page 85.) 

Unsweetened Starchy Croquettes 

Ingredients: (10 croquettes) 

2tb. 



dash 
dash 
dash 
Ht. 
4d. 



2 c. cooked starchy food (see Note 1) 
Se^asonings: 

1 tb. butter 

J^ t. salt 

A few dashes of white pepper or paprika 

He t. celery salt 

1 1. chopped parsley 

}4 t. onion juice 

1 yolk of egg, beaten 



Method: 

1. Mix all the ingredients, being careful not to add the yolk of egg to very 
hot potatoes or other food, and beat until mixture is very light and creamy. 

2. Cool, and shape a heaping tablespoonful of mixture into a ball, then into a 
cylinder, cone, pyramid, or other form. 

3. Roll croquettes in sifted crumbs or flour, then in egg, then in crumbs again. 

4. Cook croquettes in deep fat until they are brown, and drain them on tmglazed 
paper. 

88 



DIET FOR ADULTS 89 

6. If desired, serve with a sauce, such as white or tomato sauce or drawn 
butter. Garnish with parsley. 
Noi€9: 

1. Select the starchy food, singly or in any combination, from the following list, cooking 
all of the foods before measuring them: 

a. Vegetables and nuts: 

Artichokes, Jerusalem 

Dasheens 

Potatoes, white 

Potatoes, sweet 

Yams 
• Chestnuts 

All of the above, as a rule, should be freshly mashed (with no milk or season- 
ings) before being measured; clry boiled potatoes in an oven or in a sieve over 
flame before mashing them. Sometimes left-over mashed potatoes, etc., can 
be used. 
h. Cereals: c. Flour pastes (prepared in very small pieces, 

Com meal Ji*' for example, but not mashed) : 

Farina Macaroni 

Hominy Noodles 

Rice Spaghetti or vermicelli 

2. These croquettes are substitutes for boiled or other potatoes in a meal. 

3. This recipe may also be used for makiQg some of the succulent vegetables into cro- 
quettes, such as salsify and parsnips. 

4. Vary proportions in the recipe as desired, or make any addition or deduction of 
ingredients; beaten white of egg is sometimes added. A little milk, cream, or white sauce 
is often necessary as a softening agent. When potato or other croquettes and balls 
are too soft for molding for either frying or saut^ing, add soft bread crumbs rather than 
any other material; or use heat and evaporation as stiffening agents. 

Work with a croquette mixture as soft and creamy as possible. 

5. The class recipe yields one small croquette. 

6. See "General Method for Croquettes," Food Economy, page 84. 



Ingredients: 

2tb. 



1 1. raisins 



spk. 
J^t. 
dash 



Sweetened Starchy Croquettes 

2 c. cooked starchy food, such as a cereal or a flour paste (selected from 

the list in Note 1 of preceding recipe) 
Flavorings to taste, selected singly or in any combination from the 
following: 

Dried fruit (dates, raisins, etc.) 

Fresh fruit (such as pineapple) 

Nuts, chopped 

Salt, dash 

Sugar 

Spice 

Egg 

Cream 



90 LESSONS IN COOKERY 

Method: 

1. Follow steps 1-4 of the preceding recipe. 

2. Serve croquettes as a dessert or as an entree; add cream, maple sirup, or a 
lemon or other sauce. 

Notes: 

1. Beware of making the mixture too soft to handle; however, heat and bread crumbs 
are always available as stiffening agents. 

2. Shape croquettes in the usual way, or as follows: 

a. Shape balls, then make a hollow in each ball by pressing with the finger. 

b. Half fill the hollow with jelly, jam, soaked raisins, or other fruit. 

c. Close the depression. 

d. Roll croquettes in crumbs, in egg, then in cnunbs again, and fry. 

Meat and other protein-food fillings may be added in a similar way to imsweetened 
croquettes. 

3. If a square of cheesecloth is used (see method for fruit rice-balls, steamed. Diet for 
Children), perfect balls may be formed for use in the following fried recipes: 

Sweetened starchy croquettes (with fruit or other filling in the center, if 

desired) 
Unsweetened starchy croquettes (with meat, cheese, or other protein-food 

filling in the center, if desired) 



FRYING OF UNCOOKED FOODS 

Introductory Notes t 

1. Uncooked foods are either left imcoated or are coated before being fried; note 
examples as follows: 

a. Uncoated foods: 

Vegetables, raw, such as: 

Potatoes (white or sweet) 

Dasheens (delicious fried as chips — similar to potato chips) 

Parsnips 

Carrots 
Apples, raw (sliced and cooked like French-fried potatoes) 
Doughnuts (a soft dough) 
Muffins (a drop batter; see footnote, page 93) 
Timbale cases (a thin batter) 
Fritters (a drop batter) 

b. Foods coated with some material which hardens quickly and at a law temperature: 

Fruit covered with sweetened fritter batter , 

Fish, meat, and vegetables covered with unsweetened fritter batter 
Protein foods cdvered with material other than batter, such as: 
Veal cutlets and chops (breaded) 
Fish: 

Smelts and other small fish 

Scallops 

Oysters 

Clams 

2. Coatings for the protein foods listed in h include: 

Egg, and crumbs (or com meal or corn flakes) 
Egg, and water or milk 
Milk and cnmibs . 

3. The fat for frying uncooked foods, imcoated or coated, should be hot enough to 
brown a cube of dry bread in 60 sec. ; see temperature tests, page 8. 

4. Note the following recipe for fried potatoes, that is, potatoes cooked in deep fat. 

Fried White Potatoes 
Mdhod: 

1. Wash and pare potatoes. 

2. Cut them into pieces of desired size and shape (see Note 1). 

3. Soak them 1-2 hr. in ice water or other cold water in order to make them 
crisp. (What is seen in the water used for soaking?) 

91 



92 LESS(>NS IN COOKERY 

4, Drain, and dry them very thoroughly between towels. (Why?) 
6. Cook them 2-10 min. in deep fat until they are tender and brown, the time 
varying with the size of the pieces. Stir often with a fork while cooking. Pry 
slices tmtil they are brown. Chips should be crisp and slightly brown. 

6. Drain them on a soft paper, then add salt. 
Notes: 

1. The types of fried raw potatoes, according to the size of the pieces, are as follows: 

I Very small potatoes (fried whole) 
Potato balls (formed by a French vegetable-cutter) 
French-fried potatoes (oblong strips about 2^" x H" X,H') 
Shoestring potatoes 
Lattice potatoes 
Saratoga chips (formed by slicing small pared potatoes very, very thin with a 

vegetable-slicer or a paring knife) 
Etc. 
Use the general method in frying all of the types. 

2. Are old and new potatoes equally good for frying? (Pupil to test.) 

3. The frying of potatoes clarifies the fat used. See Food Economy, page 87. 

4. Com oil is excellent as a frying medium for potatoes. 

5. Avoid danger of fire by observing three precautions: 

a. Do not have the kettle more than half full of fat. 

b. Cook only a few pieces of potato at a time. (Why?) 

c. Dry each chip, ball, or other piece of potato separately before frjring. With 
chips, especially, there is danger of having the fat bubble over. (Why?) 

6. State the fuel value per lb. of each of the following, then compare the three values: 

Lard 

Raw potatoes 

Cooked potato chips (aS purchased) 





Doughnuts 




(Soft dough) ' 


Ingredients: 


{2 doz. doughnuts) 


Ht. 


lyi tb. butter or a substitute 


Hth. 


\i c. sugar 


It. 


l/'^ eggs, well beaten 


J^tb. 


]/2 c. milk 


dash 


?i t. salt 


dash 


yi t. mace 


Vst. 


2 t. baking powder 


2Mtb. 


Bread flour enough for a soft roll dough (about 2J^ c.) 



Method: 

1. Mix the ingredients according to the standard method for cakes, page 55. 

2. Roll dough to l^^-H" thickness and cut with a doughnut-cutter, or roll it 
with the hands into little balls. In either case the doughnuts should be smooth, 
having no cracks on the surface. 



DIET FOR ADULTS 



93 



3. Pry the doughnuts, and drain them on soft paper. 

4. When they are perfectly cold, roll them in powdered sugar. Sprinkle them 
with cinnamon, if desired. 

Noies: 

1. The dass recipe makes one doughnut of ordinary size with a hole in the center, or 
it makes three or four little balls. 

2. With the possible exception of the cake-mixer method, any of the six methods for 
cakes containing fat (pages 55-57) may be used in making doughnuts. 

3. An excellent test for the fat consists in dropping a small bit of dough into it. If 
the temperature is correct for frying, the dough rises at once to the surface of fat and turns 
a delicate brown; the fat is too cool if the dough does not rise to the top at once. 

4. Note reasons why doughnuts often become soaked with grease: 

Fat is too cool. 

There is not enough flour in the dough. 

5. Estimate the time required for frying by cooking a test doughnut by itself, then 
breaking it open to see if it is done. 

6. Doughnuts sink to the bottom of kettle at the very beginning of frying, then they 
quickly rise to the surface of fat. Why? 

7. Should doughnuts be turned over as soon as they rise to the surface? 

8. The coating of fat, which forms on even the best-made doughnuts, is objectionable 
to persons of delicate digestion. A practical plan for removing much of this surface fat is 
to plunge the doughnuts (immediately after frying) into boiling water, allowing them to 
remain for an instant only. (Note layer of fat left on water.) 

9. Compare sweet-milk and sour-milk doughnuts as to richness, lightness, etc. 

10. Any recipe of the type given is often called fried cakes, or crullers. Doughnuts, 
properly speaking, are fried bread dough; they contain much less sugar and fat than 
crullers. Properly speaking, crullers are dough rolled thin and cut in pieces 2^ X 3*. Cut 
three or four parallel incisions in each piece, run finger in and out of them, then fry. 



Fried Rye Muffins^ 



Fried Graham Muffins^ 



Ingredients: 


(9-liS muffins) . 


Ingredients: 


(8 muffins) 


Itb. 


% c. rye flour 


2tb. 


1 c. graham flour 


Itb. 


5^ c. bread flour 


Ht. 


1^ t. baking powder 


Ht. 


2 t. baking powder 


Ht. 


34 tb. sugar 


Hit. 


1 1. sugar 


Itb. 


2 eggs, well beaten 


dash 


Mt. salt 


3^tb. 


H c. milk 


It. 


1 egg, well beaten 






2t. 


1^-^ c. milk 







Method: 

Use this method with both rye and graham muffins. 

1. Sift the dry ingredients together, then add to a mixture of the wet ingredients. 

2. Fry by the tablespoonful; cook muffins until they are no longer sticky when 
tested with a toothpick. 



1 Pried muffins (a drop batter) are more correctly called fritters. 



94 LESSONS IN COOKERY 





Timbale Cases 




{Thin hatter) 


Ingredients: 


{20 cases) 


Itb. 


5i c. bread flour 


VAt. 


2 t. sugar 


Hfljgh 


3^ t. salt 


It. 


1 egg, beaten very slightly 


2t. 


H c. milk 


Mt. 


1 tb. fat, melted and cooled 


Method: 





Steps 8, 4, and 6 deal with the preparation of a single timbale case. 

1. Gradually add the dry to the wet ingredients, and blend them into a very 
smooth batter. (Why add gradually?) Avoid beating in air, since air will make 
the timbale cases puff in spots while frying. 

2. Let batter stand until any possible air has escaped; no air bubbles should 
be visible. 

3. Heat timbale iron very hot in fat and then remove surplus fat from it by 
means of a soft cloth; avoid an iron that is too hot or too cold. 

4. Place batter in a deep cup or bowl, dip hot iron into it, and let it stand 4 or 
6 sec. Dip iron into battter only one-half to three-quarters of the depth of iron, 
since the batter will rise later. Batter should adhere to iron in a smooth coat 
without air bubbles. 

6. Insert iron at once into hot fat, and cook timbale case about 12 sec., or 
until it is brown and crisp. Fat must be deep enough to more than cover iron. 
If fat is too hot, shell will bum; if fat is too cool, shell will be soggy and soaked 
with grease. 

6. Drain timbale cases by placing them upside down on soft paper. 

7. Fill timbale cases with any of the foods named in Note 1. 

Noies: 

1. The filling may consist of fruits, vegetables, meats, or fish; semi-dry foods are best 
used in timbale cases because the cases are so thin. 
The two chief types of fillings are as follows: 

a. Sweet fillings: 

J yy f cut in cubes and garnished with whipped cream 

Use timbale cases with sweet fillings as desserts; 1 1. extra sugar may be added 
to the given timbale batter. 

b. Unsweetened fillings (usually creamy) : 

Chicken or veal Vegetables: 

Fish (such as finnan haddie) Asparagus 

Mushrooms Carrots 

Oysters Cauliflower 

Celery 

Peas (good with Spanish onions) 



DIET FOR ADULTS 



95 



2. Heat iron as well as fat very slowly. The iron should be reheated for each dipping. 

3. Soft timbale cases (not the desirable crisp ones) result from a batter that is too thick; 
thin such batter with milk. 

4. A desirable class plan is for each pupil to prepare the class batter recipe, then for 
part or all of the pupils to unite their small quantities in a central bowl, previous to the 
time of frying. If preferred, one pupil may prepare the large recipe for the class. 

5. Note the various forms in which irons are sold: 

Cube 
Diamond 
Heart 
Oval 
Rosette 
The irons last a lifetime. What is the average price of an iron? 

6. Homemade timbale cases, or shells, are very inexpensive as compared with the com- 
mercial ones. Pupil to determine the price per dozen of each. 

7. Timbale shells are more digestible, also less expensive, than patty shells. 



FRITTER BATTERS 

(For use chiefly in frying 

Various recipes are possible for fritter batters; the first five recipes below are derived 
from Farmer, The Boston Cooking-School Cook Bookj pages 348-349. Recipe VI is a small 
recipe for class use. 



Recipe I 


Recipe II 


Recipe III 


1 c. bread flour 


1 c. bread flour 


IJi c. flour 


H t. salt 


H t. salt 


Mt.salt 


Few grains pepper 


1 tb. sugar 


2 t. baking powder 


He. milk 


3i c. water 


He. milk 


2 eggs, well beaten 


1 white of eggy beaten stiff 
3^ tb. olive oil 


1 ^ggi well beaten 


Recipe IV 


Recipe V 


VI. Class Recipe 


1 c. flour 


1 c. flour 


3 tb. bread flour 


Jit. salt 


Mt. salt 


Dash of salt 


3 tb. powdered sugar 




1 1. sugar 


1}4 t. baking powder 




Ji t. baking powder 


}4 c. milk 


% c. milk or water 


IH tb. milk 


legg 


2 yolks of eggs, well beaten 


2 t. beaten egg (whole egg) 




2 whites of eggs, beaten stiff 


1 1. stiffly beaten white of egg 




1 tb. melted butter or olive 


3^ t. fat, melted 




oil 





Notes: 

1. Recipes for both unsweetened and sweetened fritter batters are included in the 
six recipes given above; see page 96 for the uses of these two types of batters. 



96 LESSONS IN COOKERY 

2. Select from these or other recipes according to the fruit, vegetable, or other food used. 

3. All of the batters are mixed according to the muffin method (see Method II for 
muffins, page 46). If the whites and yolks of eggs are beaten separately, fold in the whites 
at the very last. 

4. Timbale batter is really a thin fritter batter containing little or no air and no 
commercial leaven. 

Fritter Batters Classified According to Sweetness 

/. Unsweetened batter: 

This is used as a coating for the following: 

1. Fish, such as: 

Smelts, and other small fish 

Slices of larger fish 

Ojrsters or dams (in making fritters from either, use the liquor as wetting) 

2. Vegetables, chopped or sliced: 

Cauliflower Egg plant 

Celery Onions, Spanish 

Com Parsnips 

. ' Cucumbers Etc. 

The majority of these vegetables should be boiled partially or 
wholly tender before being fried. 

3. Grated cheese, or chopped meat; or fish (Stir any of these into plain 
fritter batter, then fry by the spoonful.) 

//. Sweetened batter: 

This is used in either of the following ways: 

1. Fried by itself as plain fritters 

2. Used as a coating for any fruit that is either chopped or sliced; add 
as much fruit as the batter will cover. Circular slices of pineapple, 
etc., are pretty. Canned fruits may be used if all sirup is removed. 
Fresh fruit fritters include the following: 

Apple Orange 

Apricot Peach 

Banana Pear 

Berry Pineapple 

Noies: 

1. Sprinkle sweet fritters with powdered sugar after frying them. 

2. Two t3rpes of apple fritters are made as follows: 

a. Add chopped apples to thick batter and fry by the spoonful. . 

b. Core apples and cut them in 34" round slices. Dip slices in a mixture of 
sugar, cinnamon, and lemon juice, then dip them in thin batter and fry. 

3. Dip elderberry flowers in sweetened batter and fry. Hold them by the stem both 
in dipping and in frying; the green portion is thus left standing and in view for serving. 

4. Another type of sweet fritters ("queen") is derived by frying cream-puff batter; 
chocolate is sometimes added to this batter or to ordinary fritter batter. 



DIET FOR ADULTS 97 

Fritter Batters Classified According to Thickness 

I. Thin, or cover batter, about 1:1: 
This is used as a covering for sliced fruit, fish, etc., where the aim is to pre- 
serve the shape of the article of food. The following are the two batters used for 
cover fritters: 

1. Popover batter: Use ordinary popover batter, making no changes 
in it except for the addition of a little extra flour if batter is too 
thin to cling to food (Add no leaven.) 

2. Sweet-milk griddlecake batter 
//. Thick, or drop batter, about 2:1: 

Add chopped fruit, nleat, or other food to an ordinary baking-powder muffin 
batter, and fry by the spoonful; or fry the batter without the addition of fruit 
or other food. Make no changes in the muffin recipe except for the use of less 
fat and more eggs. 

NoUa: 

1. It is essential that very little fat be used in any of the fritter batters; if this pre- 
caution is not observed, the mixture will break into bits in frying. Occasionally, com or 
other fritters are saut^ed, not fried; in this case the quantity of fat in the fritters makes 
less difference. These saut6ed fritters are usually made from a thin batter. 

2. In case fritters do not hold their shape when dropped into fat, add more flour; and, 
if need be, have the batter too thick rather than too thin. 

3. A thin fritter batter is sometimes made without addition of leaven; the drop batter 
is so heavy with flour that baking powder or other leaven must be added to it. 

4. Beware of frying batter in fat that is not hot enough. Experiment with hot and 
cooler fat and compare results. 

FRIED PROTEIN FOODS 

Fried Fish 

Method: 

1. Clean any of the following fish, then wipe them dry: 

Small fish left whole (perch, smelts, etc.) 

Larger fish, cut in slices called steaks or fillets (halibut, salmon, etc.) 
Heads and tails should be left on smelts. 

2. Sprinkle fish with salt and pepper. 

3. Dip fish in turn into flour, tgg (2 tb. water to 1 egg), and flne, sifted crtunbs. 

4. Cook them 3-6 min. in deep fat. In frying smelts or other small fish, 
remove fat to back of range very soon after fish are added, in order that the fish 
may not become too brown before being cooked through. 

6. Arrange fish on a hot platter and garnish with parsley, slices of lemon, and 
sa.uce tartare or maltre d'hdtel butter. 
Notts: 

1. Smelts may be fried without being skewered, but, with the possible use of toothpicks 
as skewers, they may be skewered into a variety of shapes. 



98 



LESSONS IN COOKERY 



2. K preferred, dip the raw fish into fritter batter instead of into crumbs and eggj 
using the same batter as for oysters in the following recipe. (A turban of fish is a 3^" 
slice of fish rolled, fastened with a toothpick, dipped in batter, and then fried.) 

Fried Oysters 

Method: 

1. Dry oysters and sprinkle them with salt and pepper. 

2. Roll them in turn in bread or cracker crumbs, egg (1 tb. milk or water to 1 
^ggf slightly beaten), and then crumbs again. 

3. Cook the oysters 1-2 min. in deep fat, drain, and garnish with parsley. 

Noie: 

I 

A second method is as follows: 

a. Dry oysters and sprinkle them with salt and pepper. 

b. Dip them in the following batter (mixed by the muffin method), then cook 
in deep fat: 

1 c. flour 
It. salt 

14 t. pepper 

J^ t. baking powder 

5^ c. milk 

2 eggs, beaten 



Fried Cheese Balls 



Ingredients: 




2t, 


Ij/i c. grated cheese 


H^jgl^ 


Jit. salt 


spk. 


Cayenne 


Ht. 


1 tb. flour 


Itb. 


3 whites of eggs, beaten stiff 



Method: 

1. Fold the cheese, seasonings, and flour into the whites of eggs. 

2. Mold mixture into small balls, roll them in cracker dust, and brown them 
in deep fat. 

3. Serve hot with salads. 



CANDIES 

Candies and all other forms of sugar are important sources of energy. 

CLASSIFICATION 

Candies fall into definite groups in the three classifications which follow, and 
the general directions are the same for cooking all the members of any one group. 

/. Candies classified according to crystallization: 

1. Large crystals (rock candy is the only candy in which large crystals 
are desired) 

2. Very small crystals (fondant and other cream candies) 

3. No crystals (brittles, etc.) 

II. Candies classified according to whether raw or cooked: 

1. Uncooked candies (these are few in number and include simple candies 
made with confectioner's sugar) 

2. Cooked candies: 

a. Candies cooked by dry heat, such as nut brittle (see Diet jor 
Children) 

b. Candies cooked by moist heat, such as fondant 

III. Candies classified according to temperature tests and the corresponding cold- 
water tests: 
Amy Daniels* gives the following tests: 

When sucrose (cane sugar) is the principal sugar used in the candy mixture the following 
temperatures are given by sirups of different consistencies: 

Soft ball 113^ C. Hard crack 145* C. 

Hard ball 122° C. Barley 149° C. 

Crack 132° C. Caramel 1154° C. 

But when a considerable amoimt of glucose is used in the candy, these consistencies are 
reached at lower temperatures. For example, when two parts of cane sugar are used to 
one part of glucose, the typical consistencies are reached at the following temperatiires: 

Soft ball 112° C. Hard crack 135° C. 

Hard ball 118° C. Barley 141° C. 

Crack 125° C. Caramel 144-150° C. 

When equal quantities of glucose and cane sugar are used, the sirups register as follows: 

Soft ball 111° C. Hard crack 125° C. 

Hard ball. 116° C. Barley 138° C. 

Crack 122° C. Caramel 142° C. 

lAmy Daniels, "The Influence of Glucose on the Cooking Temperatures of Candy Syrups," 
Journal of Home Economics^ December, 1914. 

99 



*c. 




"F. 


"C. 


102 


SoftbaU 


.. 238 


113 


103 


Hardball 


.. 248 


120 


105 


Small crack . , , 


,. 290 


143 


106 


Crack 


. 316 


155 


110 


Caramel 


.. 360 


175 


111 









100 LESSONS IN COOKERY 

When glucose alone is used, the t)rpical consistencies are reached at even lower tem- 
peratures: 

Soft ball 110" C. Hard crack 122* C. 

Hard ball 114» C. Barley 128* C. 

Crack 120* C. Caramel 133* C. 

Louise Stanley^ states the following candy tests: 

Small thread 215 

Large thread 217 

Pearl 220 

Large pearl 222 

The blow 230 

Thefeather 232 

The following data are derived from a booklet* in which sucrose candies are 

chiefly considered: 

^F. ^C. 

Soft ball stage .. . 236-242 113^-117 

Hard ball stage . . 254 1233^ 

Crack stage 260-275 127-135 

Hard crack stage. 290 143 J^ 

Caramel stage.... 300-350 149-176 

Cold-water tests, as follows, are taken from the same booklet:' 
The sugar and water boiled together reaches the soft ball stage when a portion dropped 
into cold water can be gathered up with the fingers into a soft ball. 

The hard ball stage is reached when the portion tested forms a firm, compact ball. 
At the crack degree, the portion tested becomes slightly brittle and can no longer 
be molded into a ball. In other words, it is the point at which the candy first becomes 
"snappy." 

The hard crack is the stage at which the portion tested becomes hard and brittle. 

Pupil to add to the following list, noting that no very fixed list can be given 
inasmuch as recipes for any one candy often vary considerably in composition: 
Soft-ball candies: Hard-ball candies: 

» Fondant Caramels (chocolate, etc.) 

Fondant derivatives (such as fudge) Buttercups 

Crack-stage tandies: Hard-crack candies: 

Toffee Glac6 fruit 

Butterscotch Etc. 

Vinegar candy Barley-stage candies: 

Molasses candy Barley candy 

Divinity creams Horehoimd candy 

Pop-corn balls Caramel-stage candies: 

Crackajack Nut brittles (such as peanut) 

1 Louise Stanley, Principles of Candy Making, 1911, Home Economics Department, University 
of Missouri. 

2 The Making of Candy, Home Economics Department, School of Education, University of 
Chicago. 

^Ibid. 



DIET FOR ADULTS 101 

FONDANT 

J. Types of fondant: 
White 
Maple 
CoflEee 
Caramel 
Etc. 
//. Uses of each of the types of fondant: 
Centers of chocolate creams 

Filling for dates, prunes, cherries, pulled figs, and other fruits 
Bar or loaf candy 

Outside or centers of bonbons (see Note 4) 
Nut creams 
Frosting for cake 
Patties (all flavors and tints) 
Etc. 

Nates: 

1. Many more than the items listed may be made from fondant. 

2. In making any of the candies, etc., listed, use the fondant in either of the following 
forms: 

Plain 

Mixed with any of the following: 

Nuts \ 

Dates / , , 

Figs chopped 

Candied cherries / 
Coconut 
Various flavors 
Etc. 

3. Knead fondant before molding it into candies so as to improve the texture; a 
little glucose is sometimes added to make a more pliable product. If fondant is not molded, 
melt it in a double boiler; a double boiler is used for each of the following processes: 

Dipping of bonbons and sections of orange and pineapple in fondant 
Dropping or pouring of fondant to form patties, coconut bar, cream loaf, 

chocolate creams, etc. ■ 
Frosting of cakes or Eclairs with fondant 

4. A bonbon consists of a ball of fondant in the center of which is foimd one of the 
following fillings: 

Nut meat (any kind) 

Almond pastfe 

Cherry (fresh, candied, or maraschino) 

Grape, white, etc. (pretty bonbons are made by inclosing green grapes in light 

green fondant) 
Fondant mixed with chopped nuts and fruits, such as figs 
Etc. 



102 LESSONS IN COOKERY 

5. To make chocolate-covered candies, dip nuts, molded shapes of fondant, etc., into 
either of the following ingredients, melted in a double boiler: 

Bitter chocolate 

Sweet chocolate (use only the regular coating chocolate, to be secured from any 
confectioner) 
The addition to the chocolate of a little cocoa butter or paraffin results in extra gloss. 
Do not overheat chocolate, else it will streak and be dull. 

6. Note the following suggestions for a class lesson on fondant derivatives: 

a. Bring the following from home: 

Candy box or basket 

Paraffin paper 

Paper cases for individual candies 

Nuts and fruits 

b. Shape chocolate creams in the following forms: 

Balls Horseshoes 

Cones or steeples Ovals 

Crescents Pyramids 

Cubes Etc. 

c. Remember that all good candies are of delicate color and flavor. 

7. Fudges, such as the following, are closely related to fondant: 

Chocolate fudge 
Penocha (brown-sugar fudge) 
Maple fudge 

Opera creams (white fudge) 
Etc. 
All fudges should be of a creamy consistency and glossy on top. 





White Fondant 


Ingredients: 




He. 


5 c. granulated sugar 


Ho. 


IJ^ c. water 


Met. 


Ji t. cream of tartar 



Method: 

1. Mix all the ingredients, and stir them over a low flame only tmtil the sugar 
is thoroughly dissolved; use a saucepan which is very smooth inside, such as a 
new granite pan. 

2. Boil the sirup, without stirring, to the soft ball stage (238° P., or 1143^** C.) 
if soft fondant is desired; 242® P., or 116^® C, for harder fondant. (It is much 
better to use a thermometer than to depend upon a jelly-like ball in cold 
water, that is, a mass that can barely be picked up by the fingers.) 

It is well to wash the sides of the pan continually with a fork wound with 
wet cheesecloth. (Why?) 

3. Slightly oil a marble slab and pour sirup upon it, holding sirup as ne'ar 
^o slab as possible while pouring; do not scrape pan. If preferred, pour the 



DIET FOR ADULTS 103 

sirup upon a white platter wet with cold water. If crystals form on top of candy, 
sprinkle with a few drops of cold water. Do not stir candy. 

4. When candy is cool and a heavy wrinkle forms on top when platter is 
slightly tipped, beat hard with a spatula or wooden spoon, or possibly with a 
Dover beater in a bowl. 

6. When candy is milky, not watery white, and beginning to lump, add 
flavoring and knead with the hands on a marble slab or wooden board tmtil 
candy is very creamy;. the more kneading, the whiter, creamier, and more glossy 
the candy. The best fondant hardens slowly. 

6. Mold fondant at once into shapes for chocolate creams and other deriva- 
tives, or preferably place fondant in a covered glass jar and let it stand 24 hr. 
in a cool place before molding. (Avoid a refrigerator, else the fondant may 
become too moist on the outside.) 

Notes: 

1. If tightly covered, fondant can be kept for weeks or months before being molded; 
as a general rule, age improves the texture. 

2. Glucose may be substituted for cream of tartar. Note the following class recipe: 

1 c. sugar 

2 tb. com sirup (brown or white) 
J^-J^ c. water 

The Karo book gives the following recipe for Karo fondant, to be boiled to the threading 
stage: 

3^ c. Karo com sirup 
13^ c. sugar 
J^ t. cream of tartar 
yi c. hot water 

The better the facilities for beating fondant, the larger the percentage of glucose which 
can be used in making it; factory machinery makes possible a fondant of greater glucose 
content than that made in the home or school. 

3. A great deal of commercial candy (including fondant and many other kinds) con- 
tains little, if any, sugar; it is made chiefly of glucose. 

4. "Cane sugar crystallizes readily and in large crystals from a concentrated cane sugar 
solution. Glucose is crystallized with great difiiculty, and the crystals formed from a con- 
centrated glucose solution are extremely fine. 

"The presence of glucose in a cane sugar solution prevents or retards crystallization 
and decidedly modifies the kind of crystals formed. When sufiicient glucose is added to a 
concentrated cane sugar solution and the solution is made to crystallize, instead of the 
large cane sugar crystals, very fine crystals are formed and the mixture has a creamy consist- 
ency. This fact is fimdamental to the making of certain frostings and candies. 

"When cane sugar is cooked with an acid, it is gradually changed to glucose and fructose. 
The amount of glucose and fructose produced depends on the amoimt of acid used and 
the length of time required to concentrate the solution."^ 



^Katherine H. Mills, Making Cake, Part II (Cornell Reading-Courses). 



DRIED, OR DEHYDRATED, FOODS 
CLASSIFICATION 



/. Protein foods : 



Fish 

Legumes, mature (such as beans, peas, and lentils) 

Meats 

Milk: 

Common 
Malted 
//. Carbohydrate foods : 

Fruits (for use in sauce, pie, shortcake, jelly, etc.) : 

Apples Pnmes 

Apricots Raspberries 

Cranberries Rhubarb 

Figs Raisins (black or sultana) 

Peaches Strawberries 

Pears Etc. 

Vegetables: 

Beans, string 

Cabbages 

Carrots 

Com 

Eggplants 

Julienne (a mixture of carrots and other soup vegetables) 

Onions 

Pe^ 

Potatoes 

Pumpkins 

Spinach 

Tomatoes 

Etc. 

Notes: 

1. Dried foods are especially useful in camp cooking. 

2. Which of the dehydrated foods have the highest caloric value? 

3. Pupil to make possible additions to the lists given in the classification. 

4. See Food Economy, pages 11-16, for directions for the drying of foods. 

5. Typical recipes for the use of dried foods are given on the succeeding pages. 

104 



BOILED LEGUMES 

A camp dinner 

Boiled beans Baked potatoes 

Stewed tomatoes Com bread 

Fruit cobbler Coffee 



Boiled Beans 

Method: 

1. Pick over and wash dried beans, such as navy, kidney, lima, or pinto. 

2. Soak them over night in cold water or stock to cover. 

3. Add one of the following meats: 

Bacon ends 

Ham ends or a ham bone 

Salt pork (such as the shank) 

4. Cover and simmer 3-6 hr., or until the beans are tender. Cook in a fireless 
cooker, if preferred. 

6. To every cup of cooked beans add the following seajsonings (vary these, if 
desired) : 

J^-J^ c. tomatoes 

Salt and pepper 

2 t. drippings 

1 1. each of chopped celery, onion, green pepper, and red pepper 

Brown the chopped vegetables in the drippings. 

6. Cook the mixture 6-16 min., garnish with parsley, and serve. 

Notes: 

1. Thia recipe is an excellent one for the use of left-overs. 

2. Peas, lentils, or peanuts may be substituted for beans. 

3. A good dish consists of the following, heated together: 

1 c. split peas, mashed 

1 c. boiled carrots, cut in dice 

Salt and pepper 

Cream to moisten 

4. Any of the legtimes are good creamed as follows: 

a. Boil them in water until tender. 

b. Drain, and add any of the following: 

Cream sauce 
Cream or milk 
Condensed milk 

c. Cook mixture 20-30 min., and add salt and pepper. 

8 105 



106 LESSONS IN COOKERY 

5. Tomatoes, onions, cheese, and fat salt pork are among the "first aids" for giving 
flavor to legumes iised in various recipes. 

6. As a rule, lima beans cook more quickly than other beans. 

7. It is difficult to boil legumes and other foods at a high altitude. Why? 

8. Note the following points in regard to the skins of dried legumes: 

a. In many cases the skins are an excellent source of bulk in the diet; in some 
cases the skins act as a digestive irritant, hence they should be removed. 

b. Split peas have no skins. Lentils possess less skin than most beans. 

c. More of the protein of beans is digested if the skins are removed ;i therefore it 
is an economy to remove the skins. 

9. The following statements are true in the majority of cases: 

a. Dried legiunes, including the skins, are excellent foods for hard-working men. 

b. Dried legumes, minus the skins (see use of purees, etc.), are safer than 
unstrained legumes for use in the diet of any of the following: 

Persons of sedentary habits 
Persons of delicate digestion, such as: 

Old people 

Yoimg children 

Invalids 
"There is almost no dietary in which legumes may not profitably find a place. "2 

Succotash 

{A derivative of boiled beans) 

Ingredients: 

2 c. dried com 

2 c. dried beans (such as lima or kidney) 

2 tb. Ji*' dice cut from fat salt pork 

IJ^ c. milk or cream 

2 tb. butter 

Ht. salt 

Pepper 

Thickening paste, if desired: 

1 tb. flour 

1 tb. tepid or cold water 

Method: 

1.^ Soak the com and beans in separate pans in cold water over night. 

2. Add 1 tb. pork dice to each pan, and simmer the vegetables in these separate 
pans 1-6 hr., or until they are tender. 

3. Mix the vegetables with all the other ingredients, simmer mixture 5-10 
min., and serve. 

Notes: 

1. Succotash may also be prepared from canned or fresh vegetables. 

2. Tomato juice is a good additional seasoning. 

iSee Bulletin 74, University of Minnesota Agricultural Experiment Station, by Snyder. 
2 Farmers* Bulletin 121 1 U.S. Dept. of Agri., " Beans, Peas, and Other Legumes as Food." 



DRIED-LEGUME SOUPS 



A camp dinner 
Tamales 

Ingredients: 



Bean soup 

Baked potatoes 

Lemon-jello with figs and raisins 



Bread and butter 



Soup Prepared from Legume Pulp 

edients: 

1 tb. 1 c. legume pulp (see Notes 2, 3, 4, and 6) 
Ji t. 1-2 tb. fat (such as bacon drippings) 
dash Seasonings to taste, such as: 

Salt (about Ji t.) 
Pepper 
Celery salt 
Tomato juice 
Onion juice 
Etc. 

2 tb. 1 c. liquid, or enough to make a soup of the consistency of thin creaqi, 
selected singly or in any combination from the following (see Note 1) : 

Milk or cream 

Water 

Tomatoes, strained 

Stock, meat 

Stock, vegetable 

Etc. 

Method: 

1. Simmer together 5-10 min. all the ingredients except the fat. 

2. Add fat, garnish with paprika (and a little whipped cream, if desired), and 
serve. 

Nate: 

1. If less liquid than the recipe calls for is used, a pur6e, or very thick soup, results. 

2. Use any of the following dried legumes in preparing the pulp (combinations are often 
desirable, such as beans and lentils) : 

Beans (black, pinto, kidney, lima, navy, soy, etc.) 
Peas, split or whole (green or yellow) 
Peanuts (raw) 
Lentils: 

a. Red, or Egyptian (smaller than the European) 

b. Olive-colored, or European 

107 



108 LESSONS IN COOKERY 

3. Prepare the pulp in the following way: 

a. Pick over dried legumes, wash, and soak them over night in cold water to cover. 

b. Drain legumes, add fresh cold water, and parboil legumes 5 min. 

c. Drain, add stock or water to cover, and boil 1-3 hr., or imtil legumes are 
tender. 

d. Press legumes through a sieve. 

If desired, a little of any of the following ingredients may be mixed with the legumes 
before boiling (an extra flavor is obtained by previous saut6ing of the vegetables in a little 
fat): 

Bay leaf 

Carrot, chopped 

Celery (seed, fresh or dried leaves, or chopped stalk or root) 

Cloves 

Onion \ 

Parsley / , - 

Potato p°Pf^ 

Turnip ' 

Ham bones 

Pork, fat, salt 

Some cooks prefer to submit the legumes to long, slow cooking in any low-temperature 
apparatus, such as a fireless cooker. One author asserts that they are brought to perfection 
in the Atkinson cooker. 

4. The pulp may also be prepared from canned legumes, or from left-over material, 
such as baked beans. 

5. Certain legumes, such as soy beans and peanuts, are less rich in starch than others, 
hehce a small quantity of flour is often desirable as a binding agent in preparing soups from 
them. It is well in certain cases to add the following starchy materials in place of flour: 

Cooked rice or barley 

Cooked macaroni or other flour paste 

Broken crackers 

Soft bread crumbs 



Ingredients: 

It. 

2t. 

Ho. 

dash 

Itb. 

dash 



Soup Prepared from Legume Powder 



1-2 tb. legimie powder (such as bean, pea, or lentil) 

2 tb. cold water 

1 c. boiling water or stock 

Celery salt 

3-6 tb. cream (or milk and butter) 

Salt and pepper 



Method: 

1. Blend the powder with the cold water to make a smooth paste. 

2. Add the paste to boiling water and boil 15-20 min. 

3. Add other ingredients, bring to the boiling point, and serve. 



DIET FOR ADULTS 109 

NoUa: 

1. This soup is convenient for camp and quick lunches generally. 

2. The cream (or milk and butter) is optional, and is often omitted. Dried or con- 
densed milk may be used in camp. 

3. Various additional seasonings may be used, such as parsley, thyme, celery, bay 
leaf, etc. 

"Sausage" and other powdered soups are often seasoned at the factory, hence it is often 
required that a housekeeper add no seasonings to powdered soups. 

4. Legiune powder is sold packed in any of the following receptacles: 

o. Cardboard or tin boxes 

h. Sausage-like cases. Some sausage powders (selling at about $0 . 25 per J^ lb.), 
such as Erbswurst, consist of a mixture of legumes, and are much used in 
military camps. Note various uses of Erbswurst, according to the quantity ' 
of water added: 

Soup (much water added) 

Porridge or gruel (less water added) 

Sauted or fried cakes (very little water added) 



MISCELLANEOUS DRIED-FOOD RECIPES ^ 

Scrambled Eggs 

Method: 

1. Add cold water to dried eggs (a powder) to make a liquid of the consistency 
of ordinary eggs. 

2. Add condensed milk, salt, and pepper, and proceed as for regular scrambled 
eggs. 

Dried-Fruit Pie 

Method: 

1. Wash figs or any of the other dried fruits. 

2. Soak fruit over night, then stew it until it is tender, adding sugar, if needed. 
If desired, add cinnamon or nutmeg, lemon juice or grated rind, etc. 

3. Use this sauce as filling for an ordinary pie. 

Note: 

In camp cooking, it is sometimes a convenience to use bacon or other drippings in the 
crust. 

Dried-Fruit Jelly 

Method: 

1. Prepare a sauce as follows: 

a. Wash any tart dried fruit, such as apples or cranberries, and soak 
them over night in water to cover. 

b. Simmer them in this same water until they are tender and plump, 
then remove fruit from the sirup. 

2. Prepare jelly, as follows, from the sirup: 

a. Mix %-l lb. of sugar with the sirup (about 1 qt.) from 1 lb. of fruit. 

b. Boil mixture to the jelly stage, and pour it into molds to set. 

Creamed Spinach 

Method: 

1. Soak dried spinach, then boil it about 30 min., or imtil it is tender. 

2. Add cream, salt, and pepper, and serve on toast. 

iLet the pupils make a collection of camp recipes from magazines, etc. Camp Cookery, 
Oregon Argicultural College, by Milam and Smith, has been helpful in the preparation of certain 
recipes in Diet for Adults. 

110 



COFFEE^ 

Boiled Coffee 

Ingredients: (1 c. cofee) 

2 level tb., or 1 rounded tb., meditim-ground coffee 
1 c. cold water 

Method: 

1. Mix the two ingredients in a scalded pot, place over a low flame, and bring 
gradually to the boiling point. 

2. Boil gently 3-5 min., then remove the pot from the fire. 

3. Add 1 tb. cold water through the spout, stir down the coffee, and stuff the 
spout with soft paper. Let the coffee stand 5-10 min. in a hot place so as to settle; 
do not allow it to bubble. 

4. Pour coffee from the grounds at once, and serve. 

Notes: 

1. If desired, ^ t. beaten egg may be used as an additional clearing agent; mix the 
coffee to a paste with the egg and 1 tb. cold water, then add the remainder of water. 
(Explain the action of egg and. cold water as clearing agents.) 

2. One cup boiling water may be added to the coffee in place of 1 c. cold water. How- 
ever, some authorities give preference to the use of cold water. 

3. Some cooks boil the coffee in a muslin or a thin flannel bag. 

4. A coffee pot possessing a lip with a lid is more desirable than a pot with a spout, 
because of the volatile nature of coffee. 

5. Boiled coffee is said to be done when a wooden spoon comes out free from grounds 
after being thrust into the coffee; the coffee is not done if the groimds stick to the spoon. 

Percolated Coffee 

Ingredients: 

Finely ground (but not pulverized) coffee 
Water 

Method: 

Follow the directions furnished by the. manufacturer of the percolator used. 
The average time allowed for percolation is 10-15 min. 

iThe author does not wish to imply that coffee has high caloric value. Coffee is a stimulant. 
It has almost no caloric value unless sugar and cream or milk are added. Coffee is included 
in this section of the book simply for the reason that in hearty diet, if anywhere, it has a 
legitimate use. Its warmth is especially appreciated by outdoor workers, such as firemen 
and lumbermen. 

Ill 



112 LESSONS IN COOKERY 

Notes: 

1. Pupil to diagram the chief parts of the average percolator, as follows: 

o. Large receptacle below for the water 

b. Globe or cup (with a sieve-bottom) for the coffee grounds 

c. Tube and spreader plate 

d. Heat attachment (electric, alcohol, etc.) 

2. Water and steam are forced up continuously through the central tube; pupil to 
explain this action. The water and steam spray over the coffee (see spreader plate), and 
the water percolates through it. 

Filtered Coffee 

{Often called drip, or French, coffee) 

Ingredients: (i cup coffee) 

2 level tb., or 1 rounded tb., pulverized coffee (as fine as flour) 
1 c. violently boiling water 

Method: 

If a French drip coffee pot, or biggin, is not available for filtering coffee, filter 
it as follows: 

1. Stretch a piece of fine muslin loosely over the top of a hot scalded pitcher or 
an open china teapot, kept just for coffee. 

2. Place the coffee in the depression in the cloth and slowly pour the boiling 
water through it. 

3. Remove the cloth, cover the utensil, and serve the coffee at once. 

Noi€s: 

1. Experts have decided that filtration is the best method for making coffee. Consult 
the following articles: "The Best Method for Making Coffee," Journal of Home Econom- 
ics," December, 1914; "How to Make Coffee," Good Housekeeping, March, 1914. 

2. This method is especially popular in the preparation of "black," or after-dinner 
(demi-tasse), coffee — a beverage made about twice as strong as ordinary coffee. 

3. If the water is poured through the coffee more than once, a darker beverage results, 
but one of less delicate flavor. 

4. Wash the cloth immediately after using, and keep it in a jar of cold water; do not 
allow it to dry. Change the water daily. 

Miscellaneous Notes on Coffee 

1. Cautions: 

a. Buy imground coffee and grind it daily just before using it. This is an essen- 
tial point, since ground coffee loses its. flavor on standing, even when kept 
in tin cans and for a very short time. 

b. Avoid tin coffee (or tea) pots. Why? 

c. Do not cook coffee too long, else it will turn bitter owing to the extraction of 
excess tannin. 

d. Remove coffee grounds at once from any coffee pot, then wash the pot with 
scalding-hot soft water, rinse, dry, and air. Let the pot stand in the cupboard 
with the cover off. 



DIET FOR ADULTS 113 

2. An excellent way to tell when coffee is done is to pour a little into a cup and note 
the color, clearness, and odor. Undercooked coffee has a distinctive aroma. 

3. A dash of salt is a desirable addition to any coffee. 

4. Caf 6 au lait is prepared by filling the cups half full of scalded milk, then adding coffee. 

5. The delicious flavor and fragrance of coffee are due to the presence of volatile oils; 
the stimulating effect of coffee is due to caffeine. 

6. Note the following commercial products: 

a. Coffees from which the manufacturers claim to have extracted more or less 
of the caffeine (What can you say about the stimulating properties of such 
coffees?) 

h. Concentrated coffee powders, such as the G. Washington brand 

c. Liquid extracts of coffee 

7. Coffee powders and extracts and boiled coffee are useful in camp cooking; percolated 
and filtered coffees are seldom practical for camp use. 

8. Pupil, by tests, to determine the most economical way to make coffee. 



SANDWICHES^ 

(Optional lesson) 

CLASSIFICATION OF SANDWICH FILLINGS 

I. Fillings chiefly protein in nature: 

1. Egg fillings (see Note 4) : 

Egg, ground boiled ham (equal parts) 

Egg, bacon 

Egg, cxx)ked spinach, mayonnaise 

Egg, celery, mayonnaise 

Egg, mayonnaise (beaten together until creamy) 

2. Cheese fillings (see Note 5) : 

Cheese, lettuce, mustard, mayonnaise 

Cream cheese mixed with any of the following: 

Chili sauce Pecans, orange 

Marmalade Pimentos, lettuce 

Nuts, lettuce Pimentos, tomato slices 

Nuts, raisins Pineapple 

Olives or sweet green pepper Etc. 

3. Dried-legume fillings: 

Peanuts or peanut butter 

Peanut butter, tomato slices 

1 c. mashed baked beans, 2 t. chili sauce, 1-2 tb. mayonnaise 

4. Nut fillings: 

Nut butter (such as almond or pecan) 
Nuts, chopped 

5. Meat fillings (see Note 6) : 

Bacon or ham 

Baked ham, boiled tongue, cooked salad dressing 

Beef (such as steak) 

Bologna sausage (ground), white sauce 

Chicken or other poultry 

Chicken liver 

Corned beef 

Tongue 

Veal 

1 Sandwiches are useful in semi-hearty and light diets as well as in hearty diet. This chapter 
on sandwiches is placed under hearty diet for the simple reason that the majority of the sandwich 
fillings listed seem more suitable for use in hearty diet. The lists of sandwich fillings offer sug- 
gestions for picnics, afternoon teas, and various other occasions in adult life. 

114 



DIET FOR ADULTS 115 

6. Fish fillings (see Note 6) : 
Anchovies, olives 
Caviar, lemon juice 

Crab meat, cucumbers, celery, mayonnaise 
Ojrsters (fried), lettuce, mayonnaise 
Salmon, pickle 

Sardines (boned), lemon juice 
Shrimps, mayonnaise 
Tuna, pickle, mayonnaise 

II. Fillings chiefly carbohydrate in nature: 

1. Salad fillings (see Note 7) : 

Beets, lettuce, French dressing 

Celery, almonds, mayonnaise 

Celery, olives, nuts, apples, mayonnaise 

Cucumber, chives, French dressing 

Dill pickle, cooked salad dressing 

Lettuce (or endive or water cress), mayonnaise or French dressing 

Nasturtium seeds, French dressing 

Onions, cucumbers, cooked dressing 

Onions (Spanish), French dressing 

2. Sweet fillings (see Note 8) : 

Fruit butter (see recipe. Food Economy ^ page 32) 
Jelly, jam, marmalade, or preserves 
Fruit-nut paste (see Diet for Children) 
Caramel sirup, honey, or orange honey 
Orange slices, lemon gelatin jelly, nuts as garnish 

Notes: 

1. Various combinations of the foregoing fillings are possible. 

2. Cream or salad dressing is an addition to almost all of the non-sweet fillings. 

3. The use of protein-food fillings results in complete-dish sandwiches. 

4. Egg fillings: Use eggs in the shell, or scrambled, or saut^ed eggs. Slice or chop the 
eggs, and mix them with salad dressing and any other ingredients indicated. 

5. Cheese fillings: Slice Swiss and other hard cheeses; beat cream and all other soft 
cheeses to a paste. Cream-cheese fillings are good combined with either white or Boston 
brown bread; French dressing is a good addition to such fillings. (Cream cheese is sold 
either plain or mixed with pimentos or sweet green peppers.) 

6. Meat and fish fillings: In general, mince the meat or slice it very thin across grain; 
prepare the fish in flakes or mix it to a paste with salad dressing. 

A list of possible additions to meat and fish fillings is as follows (mix these additions 
with either the dressing or the filling proper): 
Salad greens (cress, lettuce, etc.) 
Vegetables, minced or sliced: 

Cabbage Parsley 

Celery Peppers, sweet green or red 

Cucumbers Pickles 

Olives (any kind) Pimentos 

Onions Tomatoes 



116 LESSONS IN COOKERY 

Sauces: 

Caper Mint 

Catsup Mustard 

Chili Salad dressing (any kind) 

Horse-radish Tomato 

Lemon juice Worcestershire 

Caper, catsup, tomato, and mint sauces are especially good with lamb. 
The following seasonings are popular with fish: 
Lemon juice 
Onion juice 
Parsley, chopped 

7. Salad fillings: Chili sauce or chopped tomato is a good addition to any of these 
fillings. Chop celery, apples, nuts, olives, onions, chives, and pickles for use in salad 
fillings; either chop or slice cucumbers and pickled beets. For further suggestions for salad 
fillings, see pages 155-179. 

8. Sweet fillings: Fruit butter, conserve, etc., prepared from dried fruits, such as the 
following, are especially good as sandwich fillings: 

Apricots Figs 

Cranberries Prunes 

Dates Raisins 

Certain combinations of fruits are particularly desirable, such as fig and date, also 
prune and date or fig. 

The following ingredients are often a part of filling (raw or cooked) prepared from either 
dried or fresh fruits: 

Cream, plain or whipped Nuts, chopped (good with dates) 

Lemon juice Sugar 

A mixture of }i c. chopped preserved ginger and 1 c. chopped English walnut meats 
makes a good filling. 

Note a simple way to prepare fig filling: 

a. Soak figs over night, then stew or steam them until they are very tender. 

b. Grind the figs in a food-grinder or press them through a coarse sieve. 

c. Add a Httle lemon juice to the paste; add sugar, if desired. 

Dates (raw or cooked) chopped to a pulp make an excellent filling by themselves or in 
combination with certain cooked fruits. 

GENERAL METHOD FOR SANDWICHES 

1. Cut any of the following breads (see Note 1) into even slices, using a very 
sharp knife so as to avoid ragged slices: 

Boston brown Rye 

Bran Whit^ (wheat) 

Graham Whole wheat 

Oatmeal Etc. 

Cut the bread thin for persons of delicate appetite and for formal occasions; cut 
the bread thicker for picnickers and others with a hearty appetite. 



DIET FOR ADULTS 117 

If desired, trim the slices neatly so as to remove the crusts. (Less waste results 
if crust is cut from loaf before the loaf is sliced; see Note 5.) 

2. F6r each sandwich secure two slices of bread which fit together exactly, that 
is, secure adjoining slices. 

3. Soften, or cream, the butter by beating it with a spoon (hard butter is diffi- 
cult to spread). 

4. Spread butter evenly over the entire surface of each slice, being careful not 
to neglect the edges (see Notes 2 and 3). - 

6. Spread filling (if used) on but one slice of each sandwich (see Note 6, &). 

6. Press sandwiches hard so that the slices will not fall apart when sandwiches 
are served. 

7. If desired, cut the sandwiches into smaller sandwiches, such as triangles, 
squares, and strips. Sandwiches for afternoon tea should be cut very small. 

8. Pile sandwiches on a plate in an attractive fashion (such as log-cabin for 
strip sandwiches) . A doily or a lettuce leaf may be placed beneath the sandwiches. 

9- Garnish sandwiches with any of the following, then serve: 

Pickles, such as dill 

Lemon slices 

Greens (such as celery tips, cress, and parsley) 

Noiti: 

1. Note points regarding bread for use in sandwiches: 

a. It should be in well-shaped loaves. The bread may be baked in ordinary 
bread tins, in sandwich-loaf tins, or in baking-powder cans. 

h. It should be a day old, at least, except for roll sandwiches; fresh bread does 
not slice well. Bread that is too old crumbles while being sliced; a fine- 
grained bread crumbles less easily than a coarse-grained bread. 

c. Nuts and raisins are often a desirable addition to any of the breads Hsted in 
step 1 of the method. 

2. A flavored butter (such as mint) is sometimes substituted for plain dairy butter. 
If peanut or almond butter is used as a filling, dairy butter may be omitted. (Why?) 

•3. A soaked and unappetizing sandwich usually results if one slice of bread only is 
buttered; butter prevents absorption of the filling by the bread. 

4. If sandwiches are to be stored for any length of time, keep them moist (a) by wrap- 
ping them in wax paper, then in a damp napkin, and (5) by keeping them cool. The wrap- 
ping prevents the absorption of flavors, as well as keeps the sandwiches moist. (Paper 
is often omitted, a damp napkin only toeing used.) Note that butter tends to keep bread 
moist. 

5. Note a very simple method for making sandwiches: 

a. Trim all the crust from a loaf of bread. 

6. Cut the loaf lengthwise in slices, and butter each slice. 

c. Fit adjoining slices together so as to make long "sandwiches," add any filling 
desired, and press slices well together. 

d. Cut these long saadwiches into any forms desired, such as: 

Rounds 

Squares and other rectangles 

Triangles 



118 LESSONS IN COOKERY 

6. Sometimes certain of the following variations of the general method may be advisable: 

a. Butter each slice before it is cut from the loaf; that is, butter the end of the 
loaf each time. 

b. Mix butter and filling so that the one spreading does for both. 

c. Substitute toast, rolls, or baking-powder biscuits (large or small) for bread. 
Prepare a sandwich from a roll as follows: 

(1) Cut a slice from the top of a roll and remove the cnmibs. 

(2) Butter the inside of the shell and fill it with sandwich filling. 

(3) Replace cover. 

Use very small biscuits for sandwiches for afternoon tea; split them, add 
filling, and serve slightly warm or cold. 

d. Prepare an "open" sandwich by spreading one slice of bread with butter and 
filling. Serve an open sandwich with a fork. 



PART III 
LIGHT DIET 



SUGGESTIONS FOR LESSONS 

Fruit Reushes 

25. Various recipes for fruit relishes 

Soups 

26. Fruit soups (cold or hot) 

27. Hot v^etable soups, such as tomato bouillon 

28. Cold meat soups: (a) meat jelly served in cubes; (b) iced broth 

Protein-Food Dishes 

29. Broiled fish with Hollandaise sauce 

30. Meat or other savoiy souffle 

31. Foamy omelet 

Vegetables 

32. Boiled peas, com, asparagus, or string beans, served (a) with butter, (b) with white sauce 

33. Boiled cabbage or onions — escalloped. (Preparation of cream soups from the strong- 
flavored water remaining) 

34. Com chowder 

Salads 

35. Combination or other appetizer salad. French dressing. Cheese crackers. Fruit or 
other carbohydrate salad 

36. Fish or other protein-food salad. Rice and hard-cooked ^;gs, or other complete-dish 
salad. Cooked dressings (various types) 

Desserts and Beverages 

37. Popovers (stuffed). Cream puffs 

38. Sponge cake. Angel cake 

39. Whips (choice of the four kinds) 

40. Iced beverages, such as tea and lemonade 



FRUIT RELISHES 

A hot'ipeather dinner 

Fruit relish 

Roast chicken Creamed potatoes 

Buttered carrots Bread and butter 

Cup custard 



Combinations for Fruit Relishes, or Appetizers 

1. Oranges and bananas 

2. Oranges, bananas, pineapple, peaches, and strawberries or raspberries 

3. Strawberries or pineapple and juice, of sweet oranges 

4. Fresh figs cut in small cubes, sections of orange or grapefruit, and lemon or orange juice 

5. Cubes of alligator pear, slices of orange or grapefruit, and lemon or other acid fruit juice 

6. Small cubes or balls of muskmelon or watermelon 

7. Kumquats, sliced, and lemon juice 

8. 4 oranges cut in cubes, 1 pineapple cut in cubes, 2 tb. finely chopped mint, 1 tb. lemon 
juice, 1 tb. pineapple juice, 4 tb. powdered sugar, a sprig of mint as garnish 

9. 1 c. sliced orange, 1 c. sliced grapefruit, 1 c. red or green California grapes (any other 
fresh fruits, such as strawberries, may be substituted for these three fruits) 

10. Grapefruit pulp, served alone or mixed with fresh orange or any other fresh or pre- 
served fruit 

11. Watermelon prepared in a circular series of wedge-shaped slices like orange sections 

Noles: 

1. Almost any ntimber of other combinations is possible. A good cherry relish is made 
of pitted ripe, red cherries which are covered with a thick layer of sugar and allowed to 
stand over night in the refrigerator. (Define plasmolysis. See dictionary.) 

2. The following, when not specified, are understood in all the foregoing recipes: 

Acid fruit juice to taste (orange, lemon, lime, or grapefruit juice) 
Sugar to taste 
Sugar is usually, but not always, required; powdered sugar, which is often used, may be 
sprinkled on the fruit just before it is served. 

3. Marshmallows, cut in Ji*' cubes and mixed with the fruit, are sometimes good in a 
fruit relish. 

4.. A fruit relish is much used as the first course of a dinner or a luncheon, especially in 
hot weather. (Pupil to discuss relishes, other than fruit, which are also used as "begin- 
nings," such as canap6s and raw oysters. See standard cookbooks.) 

5. A serving of fruit or any other kind of "beginning relish" should be very small in 
quantity. If the size of the serving is increased, a fruit relish may often be served as the 
first cotirse of a breakfast or as a dessert; in such a case, however, the term "relish" is 
dropped. 

Q 121 



122 LESSONS IN COOKERY 

Note four suggestions for fruits served in fruit cups or baskets: 

a. Pineapple cup filled with strawberries, pineapple, or any other fruit 

b. Apple cups, prepared from unpared red apples, and filled with almost any 
fruit 

c. Shell of half a muskmelon filled with any fruit, such as: 

Cubes or tiny balls of muskmelon, watermelon, pear, etc. 
Strawberries or red raspberries 
• Sprinkle with sugar and add shaved ice. 

d. Orange, lemon, or grapefruit basket or cup filled with any fruit (prepare 
the cup from J^M of the rind in each case, forming saw-toothed edges with 
a knife or shears, if desired) 

Pupil to discuss the following points with regard to the four fruit cups: Which are 
better served as relishes? Which are in too large servings for relishes and hence better 
served as breakfast courses or as desserts? Which may be served either as relishes or as 
breakfast courses or as desserts? 

Strawberries in small Swedish timbale cases are sometimes served as a dinner relish. 
K desired, place the berries in the timbale without hulling them, and place a very small 
mold of powdered sugar on the plate beside the timbale. (The berries are to be dipped 
into the sugar by means of the hulls.) 

6. Oranges, grapefruit, and melons (such as muskmelons), cut in halves and served 
with little or no further preparation, are sometimes served as relishes, but the servings are 
usually too large for use as relishes. 

The following is an excellent method for preparing orange or grapefruit (allow half a 
fruit for each serving) : 

o. Cut fruit in halves, crosswise of sections, or carpels. 

b. Using any sharp-pointed knife or a special knife with a curved point, cut 
around the pulp in each section, so that later it can easily be removed with a 
spoon. 

c. Using scissors or the knife, remove seeds and all the white skin from center 
of fruit. 

d. Add 2-3 tb. sugar and let fruit stand in refrigerator several hours or over night. 

e. Garnish center and edge with whole or half strawberries, cherries, grapes, etc. 
Add ice, if desired. 

Note another good method: 

a. Scoop all the fruit from the half rind. 

b. Remove the membrane from each of the sections, keeping their shape intact 
or not, as desired. 

c. Mix the pulp with sugar, and replace it in the half rind. 

7. Certain tjrpes of fruit salads and of fruit desserts (see Note 5) are similar to fruit 
relishes. Note the following points regarding the three groups of dishes: 

a. They contain the same ingredients, with the following exceptions: 

Nuts: These are too hearty a food for use in relishes, but are often used in 

fruit salads and desserts. 
Acid: Mayonnaise or some other acid ingredient is usually included in 

the salads, but it is not used in the relishes or desserts. 

b. They offer opportunity for the use of left-over fruits. 

c. Tough and inedible materials (seeds, etc.) should be avoided in the three groups. 



DIET FOR ADULTS 123 

GENERAL METHOD FOR FRUIT RELISHES 

1. Prepare fresh fruit in any of the following forms: 

a. Slices 

6. Small cubes or balls (use French vegetable-cutter for the balls) : 

Apples 

Bananas 

Muskmdons 

Peaches 

Pears, alligator 

Pears, common 

Pineapples 

Watermelon 

c. Sections, or carpels: 

Grapefruit 

Oranges (blood oranges are especially pretty) 

Tangerines 

d. Whole fruit or halves: 

Cherries 

Grapes, seeded (white or red California) 

Strawberries 

2. Mix the fruit with sugar and acid fruit juice to taste (see Note 2, page 121), 
and chill. 

3. Serve in any of the following receptacles, as a rule adding shaved ice just 
before serving: 

a. Fruit cup (such as orange, apple, or pineapple), placed on a small 

service plate 
h. A tall-stemmed glass, placed on a doily on a small service plate 
c. Comport, or double goblet: Place the fruit in a small stemless goblet, 

then set this small goblet in a larger one partially filled with finely 

shaved ice. 

4. Garnish with any of the following: 

a. Fresh fruits, prepared in any of the forms listed in step 1. Two or 
three seeds of pomegranate may also be used for their color effect. 

b. Preserved fruits, nuts, and roots: 

Bar-le-duc 

Cherries 

Chestnuts 

Ginger 

Ktimquats 

Strawberries 

c. Fruit which has been boiled in grape juice or a colored sirup made 
with equal parts of sugar and water (Cubes of pear or apple are 
pretty boiled in a red sirup, with geraniiun leaves as a possible 
flavoring for the sirup.) 



124 LESSONS IN COOKERY 

d. Candied foods, chopped or finely shredded (such as angelica or 
cherries) 

e. Grape or other fruit juice or jelly (occasionally added for color effect) 
/. Cubes of mint or other gelatin jelly 

g. Marshmallows, cut in J^" cubes 

h. Orange or lemon ice 

i. A rose or other single flower, often placed on the service plate (The 

color of the flower should harmonize with the color of the fruits. 

Smilax is also sometimes used as a garnish.) 

NaUs: 

1. Much of the method applies to fruit salads as well. Note that a fruit relish is served 
in a glass, a fruit salad on a salad plate; a spoon or fork is used in the former case, a fork in 
the latter. 

2. When a relish is served in either a single glass or a comport, the guest's napkin may 
be placed either on the tablecloth at left of plate or on the service plate under the glass. 

3. Any one of the following is a possible substitute for sugar in a relish: 

Com sirup, white 

Sugar sirup (a convenience, if kept on hand) 

Honey 



A summer luncheon 

Fruit soup 



SOUPS 

FRUIT SOUPS 



Potato and green-pea salad 
Cream-cheese and olive sandwiches 
Angel cake 



Wafers 



Fruit Soup 

(4 servings in bouillon cups) 
1 tb. arrowroot (see Note 3) 
1}/^ tb. cold water 
A little grated rind of lemon 
Bit of stick ciiKiamon 
Dash of salt 
1 c. boiling water 

1 c. pure strained fruit jtiice of any kind except lemon 
Sugar to taste (about 2-3 tb.) 



Ingredients: 

Ht. 
It. 

dash 
spk. 
spk. 
3tb. 
Itb. 

y2-it. 

Method: 

1. Mix the arrowroot with cold water to make a smooth paste. 

2. Add paste, rind, spice, and salt to the boiling water, and simmer 2-5 min., 
or until the liquid is clear, or ** transparent." 

3. Remove from fire, add the fruit juice and sugar, stir to dissolve the sugar, 
strain, and chill. 

4. Pour soup into bouillon cups, and add a little chipped ice to each cup. 

5. Garnish with any of the following: 

Cherries 

Cloves (for example, in slices of lemon) 

Grape halves 

Orange or lemon slices 

Pineapple cubes 

Raspberries 

Strawberries 

Etc. 

6. Serve with any of the following: 

Crackers, plain sweet 

Crackers or bread, toasted, either plain or sprinkled with sugar 

Macaroons 

Zwieback 



125 



126 LESSONS IN COOKERY 

Notes: 

1. Almost any fruits may be xised singly or in any combination in fruit soup, such as: 

a. Fresh fruits (raw, freshly stewed, or canned) : 

Apples Gooseberries Raspberries: 

Blackberries Grapes Black 

Blueberries Oranges Red 

Cherries Peaches Yellow 

Cranberries Pears Rhubarb 

Currants Pineapple Strawberries 

Elderberries, with grapes Plums Tangerines 

Sour black pie-cherries are particularly good. 

Soup made from the small red apples, or fruit, of the wild rose is said to be 
delicious and is very popular in Sweden. 

With oranges and many other raw fruits it is possible to secure the piire juice 
by pressure only. In the case of hard raw fruits (such as apples, plums, 
pineapple, etc.), chop fruit and simmer it in water barely to cover until 
fruit is very soft. Drain through a jelly bag or fine sieve; avoid using the 
pulp, else the soup will be cloudy. 

b. Dried fruits (stewed after soaking over night) : 

Apples 
Apricots 
Cranberries 
Prunes 
Raisins 
Usually a mixture of fruits is used. 
No sugar is added, as a rule. 

Note the possible value of dried-fruit soups to the camper. 
The following, if not too sweet, are often of use in the preparation of fruit soups: 
Canned fruit juices (such as grape) 
Jellies and jams 

2. Vary the proportions of water and other ingredients in the general recipe in any way 
desired; for instance, omit all the sugar or thickening in certain cases. Make the soup 
taste good. Soup is sometimes made from pm^ fruit juice, tmdiluted with water. A 
little lemon juice usually is an addition to any kind of fruit soup, but is especially desirable 
in the case of dried fruits. Beware of cooking lemon and some other fruit juices at too high 
a temperature, else their flavor may be reduced or altered. Pits of fruit (cherry, prune, 
etc ) are sometimes utilized for flavor; crack the pits, add a little water, bring it to the 
boiling point, then strain the liquid into the soup. Groimd cinnamon or cloves are some- 
times added. 

3. Note possible substitutes for arrowroot: 

a. Sago or pearl tapioca, soaked in cold water 

b. Dry minute tapioca (2 tb. of this may be substituted for 1 tb. arrowroot in 
the general recipe; soak the tapioca 5-10 min. in the fruit juice, then add the 
water and other ingredients and simmer until the tapioca is clear) 

c. Cornstarch (1 J^ tb. of this may be substituted for 1 tb. arrowroot in the general 
redpe^ but the resultant soup is cloudy, hence not attractive looking) 

Occasionally egg yolk is used in addition to other thickening agents; add the hot soup 
to the yolk. 



DIET FOR ADULTS 127 

4. A fruit soup is sometimes served hot or medium cold, but usually it is served cold as 
the appetizer, or first course, of a limcheon or supper on a hot day, in which case it takes 
the place of grapefruit or other appetizer. A fruit soup is not stimulating as is a meat 
soup, but it is cooling and of use as an appetizer. 

5. A fruit soup is sometimes served in a sherbet glass or a teacup. 

* 6. Fruit soups are a valuable source of fruit acids for children and adults. 
Possible uses of fruit soups are as follows: 
In normal diets: 

Spring or hot-weather diet 

Diet for overweight 

Etc. 
In invalids' diets: 

Diet for colds (soup is usually served hot) 

Fever diet 

Etc. 



HOT VEGETABLE SOUPS 



Luncheon 



Tomato bouillon 
Potato salad 



Lemon sherbet 



Wafers 
Egg sandwiches 



Recipes for a few hot soups of low caloric value are given below. (Soups of 
low caloric value also include certain of the cream-soup series; see Diet for Children.) 



Tomato Bouillon 



Ingredients: 




He. 


4 c. stewed tomatoes 




Seasonings for tomatoes (see Note 1) : 


spk. 


}i bay leaf 


14 clove 


2 or 3 cloves 


3^ peppercorn 


4-n8 peppercorns 


Kt. 


2-4 t. sugar 


da.sh 


Salt and pepper (such as paprika) 


Mt. 


2 tb. onion, chopped 


Ht. 


1 tb. parsley, chopped 


2tb. 


1 c. water, stock, or water from boiled rice 


Mt. 


2 tb. butter or a substitute 


y2t. 


3 tb. flour or cornstarch 


Method: 





1. Add the seasonings to the tomatoes,, cover, and simmer 16-20 min. (Sim- 
mer the class recipe 3-4 min. only.) 

2. Strain the tomatoes, then add water to make up the original volume, 4 c. 

3. To these highly seasoned tomatoes add the 1 c. water, stock, or rice water. 

4. Stirring constantly, very slowly add the liquid to a flour and fat paste, then 
simmer the whole mixture 3-5 min. 

6. Add more salt, if needed, and serve. 

Notes: 

1. If desired, omit part of the seasonings from the tomatoes. The presence of sugar 
is desirable if the tomatoes are very sour; sugar is added simply to coimteract the add taste, 
not to produce a sweet soup. 

2. If the tomato mixture (after performing step 3) is very add, add J^ t. soda (spk. in 
class recipe), and simmer the mixture 1-2 min., or until the froth disappears. But since 
cooking with an alkali destroys vitamines in foods, it would seem to be better, from this 
standpoint, to omit the soda. 

128 



DIET FOR ADULTS 



129 



Asparagus Broth 
Method: 

1. Cut fresh or canned asparagus into I*' pieces. 

2. Cover the vegetable with boiling water, cook it until very tender, then drain. 
(Do not discard this water.) 

3. Press all but the tips of the asparagus through a sieve. 

4. Return pulp and tips to the water, and reheat. 

5. Season with salt, pepper, and butter, and serve. 

Vegetable-Rice Soup 

Ingredients: 

2 tb. each chopped celery, onion, and carrots 
1-2 tb. raw rice 

3 c. boiling water 

1 1. parsley, chopped 

1 dove 

3^ tb. bacon or other drippings 

Salt and pepper 

1 1. flour (not always necessary) 

Method: 

1. Cook the celery, onion, and carrots with the fat 10, min. without browning. 

2. Mix the rice with all the other ingredients except the flour and parsley, 
cover, and boil 15-30 min., or until the rice is cooked to a pulp. 

3. Add a flour paste, cook mixture 5 min. longer, add parsley, and serve. 

Nate: 

Possible additions are as follows: 

Bay leaf Left-over vegetables and rice 

Left-over meat Water drained from boiled rice 



Okra Soup 

Ingredients: 

6 slices onion 

8-10 okra pods, split lengthwise 

1 qt. boiling salted water 

2 c. milk 

2 tb. cooked rice 

Method: 

1. Saut6 the onion and okra in a little bacon fat until they are brown. 

2. Add the water, and cook until vegetables are tender. 

3. Add milk and rice and simmer 3-4 min. 

Nate: 

If desired, add minced celery and sweet green pepper to the soup in the beginning, and 
add stewed tomatoes when the soup is about done. 

9 



COLD MEAT SOUPS 

Luneheon 

Meat-jelly cubes on ice Lemon slices Wafers 

Sliced cold leg-of-lamb Lettuce Bread and butter 

Stewed cherries 



General Recipe for Meat Jelly 

Ingredients: 

Any meat cuts that are bony and cartilaginous, such as: 

Knuckle of veal 

Lower part of shin or shank of beef 
Water barely to cover 
Seasonings to taste 

Method: 

1. Clean meat, an<J chop or crush meat and bones in small pieces. 

2. Add cold water barely to cover, put a tight lid on saucepan, and bring 
liquid slowly to the boiling point. 

3. Simmer meat 3-8 hr., the time depending upon the quantity and the 
toughness of the meat; cook the meat to shreds, adding water from time to time 
to keep up the original volume. (If bones alone are used for making the jelly, 
they may be boiled, not simmered.) 

4. Remove meat and bones, strain stock, and season to taste. 

6. Pour stock into molds, set on ice over night, then remove any fat from the 
top. 

€• Serve as the soup course of a dinner on a hot day. Cut the jelly into cubes 
or break into pieces with a spoon and serve in a bed of chipped ice or in bouillon 
cups. 

Notes: 

1. In case the given recipe is not stiff enough to cut into cubes, stiffen it by the addition 
of gelatin. Note that meat jelly is a rich form of broth solidified. 

2. Note possible seasonings for meat jelly: 

Salt Vegetables: 

Salt, celery or onion Celery 

Pepper Carrot 

Thyme and other herbs Onion 

Peppercorns Parsley 

Vegetables and peppercorns, if used, are usually simmered with the meat and bones for 
part of the time. 

130 



DIET FOR ADULTS 131 

3. The following meats are generally used in the preparation of meat jellies: 

Beef 

Veal 

Calves' feet (skin and clean them carefully) 

Chicken (use a raw chicken, or the bones alone of a raw or cooked chicken) 

4. If preferred, serve meat jelly as a relish. Such a dish is especially useful in invalids' 
diet. Turn out on lettuce a small mold of jelly, cut in cubes or not, as desired, and garnish 
with parsley and slices of lemon. 

6. A jelly can be made by the addition of gelatin to beef tea. 

Chicken Jelly 

Ingredients: (S^H c. jeUy) 

\H lb. chicken (half an average chicken) 
1 lb. neck of veal 

1 lb. shoulder of beef, lean 

2 qt. cold water 

1 tb. salt 

Method: 

1. Using a cleaver and a knife, cut the three kinds of raw meat and bones into 
'^^-V cubes. 

2. Place chicken in a casserole or other earthen dish, add the water, cover 
tight, and simmer 5 hr. in an oven. 

3. Remove cover, and simmer 1 hr. longer. 

4. Dissolve the salt in the liquor. 

5. Strain liquor through a fine sieve lined with double cheesecloth. 

6. Pour liquor into small or large molds, chill over night, then remove any fat 
from the surface. 

7. Turn jeUy out, and serve either as soup or as a relish. 

Iced Broth 

Ingredients: , 

2 c. of one of the following broths: 

Clam or oyster broth 

Chicken, beef, or other meat broth (see Note 1) 
J^ tb. granulated gelatin (see Note 2) 
2 tb. cold water 
Seasonings to taste, such as: 

Paprika or cayenne 

Few drops of tarragon vinegar 

Clear tomato juice 

Ham cut in small cubes 

Method: 

1. Soak the gelatin 3-5 min. in the cold water. 

2. Heat the broth to the boiling point, add all other ingredients, and chill. 



132 LESSONS IN COOKERY 

3. Pour broth into bouillon cups, place a little chipped ice in the cups, and 
serve with hot, crisp saltines. 

Notes: 

1. A clear stock soup, such as consomm^ or bouillon (canned or freshly prepared), is 
very desirable. An ordinary meat broth, highly seasoned with the following, is also good: 

Bay leaf 
Carrots 
Celery 
Parsley 
Note, however, that such a broth keeps better in hot weather if the vegetables are 
omitted. 

2. The small quantity of gelatin used in this recipe does not thicken it, but simply 
gives it a little body. If preferred, enough gelatin may be used to yield a partially jellied 
soup. 

3. If desired, the recipe may be partially frozen before being served — that is, frozen to 
the consistency of a f rapp6. A mixture of chicken and clam broths is good served in this 
way. 

4. This soup is particularly good for use in hot-weather luncheons and suppers. 

CLASSIFICATION OF SOUPS 

This classification includes high-calorie as well as low-calorie soups. 

/. Soups made with meat stock: 

Meat jellies (see Note 3) ) - ., , . .„ 

^ , , ,, f made without milk or cream 

Iced broth 3 

Hot soups: 

Simple broth 

Bouillon and consomm6 

Heavy meat soups 

//. Soups made without meat stock: 

Fruit soups (made without milk or cream) 
///. Soups made with or without meat stock: 

Cream soups, thin or thick (made without stock, as a rule) 
Lentil or other dried-legimie- \ made without 

Vegetable soup, such as tomato botiillon > milk or cream, 
Rice, noodle, or barley soup ) as a rule 

Notes: 

1. Compare the food values of the various soups. 

2. Meat soup stocks are named as follows, according to color: 

Amber y or standard, stock (common broth) 

Brawn stock, the same as amber stock except for the use of some browning agent 
(Beef or mutton tisually is used in preparing brown stock.) 

White stock, prepared from veal, chicken, or fish; veal and chicken are some- 
times combined. (Avoid pepper or any other seasoning that colors the stock.) 



DIET FOR ADULTS , 133 

3. Cold meat jellies are used for other purposes than soup, for example: 

Meat jellies (such as chicken), used as relishes for invalids 
Aspic jelly, used in cold entr6es (Aspic jelly is made by molding stock to 
which gelatin and seasonings have been added.) 
Glaze (not to be classed as a real meat jelly) is a thick, dark brown, gluelike stock pro- 
duced by the boiling down of ordinary stock to one-quarter its volume. It can be kept 
indefinitely, and is used for the following purposes: 
To flavor and color soups and gravies 

To rub over the surface of veal and other meats so as to produce a better 
appearance 

4. Hot soups are thin or thick as follows: 

Thin soups: 

Simple broth, consomm6, and bouillon 

Cream soups (majority of them) 

Fruit soups 
Thick soups, thickened with starchy powder, cereals, or vegetables: 

Purees, or thick cream soups 

Heavy meat soups 

Etc. 
What is a bisque? (See dictionary.) 

5. Soups are often named according to the principal ingredient used; for example: 

Chicken 

Giblet 

Gumbo 

Noodle or macaroni 

Oxtail 

6. Many soups, as well as stews, have "nationality"; pupil to state the names of the 
coimtries of which mulligatawny, Scotch broth, and other soups are typical. 



PROTEIN-FOOD DISHES 

{Not salads or desserts) 
BROILED FISH 



Broiled fish Hollandaise sauce Potato curls 

Young beets in butter Bread and butter 

Rhubarb sauce Sponge cake 



To BroU Fish 

Mdhod: 

1. Clean the fish, wash, and dry ijb. 

2. Grease a fine-wire double broiler, insert the fish, and turn it often while 
cooking. Employ a high temperature at first so as to sear the fish, then use a 
meditun temperature for the remainder of time. The fish is done when the flesh 
separates easily from the bone. 

3. Carefully remove fish, skin side down, to a platter. 

4. Sprinkle fish with salt and pepper, and, if fish is not oily, add melted but- 
ter or a substitute. 

5. Garnish with any of the following: 

Parsley or cress 

Hollandaise sauce 

Stuffed olives or sliced pickles 

Shreds of green or red pepper 

Potato balls, roses, or border 

Slices of lemon, hard-cooked eggs, tomatoes, or cucumbers 

Notes: 

1. Small fish should be split down the back, then cooked whole; remove head and tail, 
if preferred. Large fish, sudi as halibut, are sliced before being broiled. 

2. A sauce rich in fat should be served with very lean fish. 

3. Broiled and all other fish should always be served with some acid food; for example: 





SAUCE 


GARNISH 


Beet 


Cucumber 


Barberries 


Celery 


Hollandaise 


Slices of pickle 


Cucumber 


Ho(se-radish 


Slices of lemon 


Tomato 


Maitre dli6tel butter 


Slices of tomato 


Etc. 


Etc. 


Etc. 



The fatter the fish, the more necessary is the acid. 

134 



DIET FOR ADULTS 135 

4. Note reasons for the use of acid foods with fish in general, that is, with both verte- 
brates and non-vertebrates: 

a. Fish is lacking in extractives, or flavoring, and hence add sauces are of use as 
appetizers. 

b. For the following reasons acid is sometimes added to the water in which fish 
is cooked: 

Acid somewhat hardens fish albumin and so keeps fish firm. 
Add (lemon juice) keeps a white fish white. 

5. Fish is useful in the diet of sedentary persons. 

6. Pupil to discuss, from the standpoint of caloric values, the following comparative 
statements: 

a. Dark-colored, or oily, fish (mackerel, salmon, shad, etc.) are better for cold- 
weather diet. 

b. Light-colored fish (cod, haddock, halibut, etc.) are better for warm-weather 
diet. 

HoUandaise Sauce 

Ingredients: 

J^ c. butter 

2-3 yolks of eggs, or 1 egg, tmbeaten 

J/g t. salt (quantity varies with the saltiness of butter) 

1-2 tb. lemon juice or vinegar 

Paprika or cayenne . 

}4 c. boiling water 



Ht. 
dash 
4d. 
dash 

Ht. 

Method: 

1. Place the butter in a bowl set in boiling water, and soften it slightly. 

2. Add all the other ingredients, and beat mixture constantly with a Dover 
beater until it is thick and creamy and until any curdled condition hais disappeared. 
Avoid overcooking the sauce. (Why is it not safe to use direct heat ?) 

3. Serve the sauce with the following foods: 

Fish (such as baked or boiled fish) 
Vegetables (cauliflower, asparagus, etc.) 



SAVORY SOUFFLES 



(A 



Ingredients: 

Ht. 
Ht. 

2tb. 



dash 
dash 
J^tb. 



2tb. 



It. 

Ht. 



Sauce-Souffle 

savory souffle in which white or other sauce is used as the basis) 

{6 servings) 
1 c. thin sauce: 

1 tb. flour 

1 tb. butter or a substitute 

1 c. liquid, selected singly or in combination from the following: 
Milk, cream, or water 
Stock (meat or vegetable) 
Tomato pulp, strained 
3^ t. salt 
H t- paprika 
1 c. solid or semi-solid food, minced or mashed, selected singly or in com- 
bination from the following (see Note 1) : 

Meats, such as: Vegetables, fresh or canned, such as: 



Com, sweet green 
Peas, green 
Potatoes 
Tomatoes 
Turnips 



Beef 
Chicken 
Game 
Lamb 
Veal 

Meat substitutes, such as: 
Fish or oysters 
Nuts 

Legumes (beans, etc.) 
Peanut or almond butter 
Cheese, American 
Cheese, cottage 
2 yolks of eggs, beaten very light 
2 whites of eggs, beaten stiff 

Seasonings to taste, selected from the following (omit all, if preferred) : 
Minced parsley (about 1-3 t.) 
Minced onion or onion juice (about 1-3 t.) 
Chopped mushrooms 
Lemon juice (good with fish) 
Celery salt 

Cayenne (good with fish or cheese; 
Buttered crumbs: 

H c. cracker crumbs 

1 tb. butter or a substitute 

136 



DIET FOR ADULTS 137 

Method: 

1. Mix the sauce and seasonings with the meat or other minced or mashed 
food, then add the yolks of eggs. 

2. Cool mixture somewhat, and fold in the whites of eggs. 

3. Place mixture in a greased baking dish and cover it with buttered crumbs. 
(Place the class recipe in a custard cup.) 

4. Bake souffle in a steady, moderate oven about 30 min., or until it is very 
light (at least twice the original bulk), firm, and slightly brown. Bake cheese 
souffle in a slow oven. (Why?) 

5. Garnish with parsley and slices of tomato or lemon, and serve at once. 

Notes: 

1. The 1 c. solid or semi-solid food used is ordinarily composed of left-overs. American 
cheese is grated. Nuts are minced. Most other foods are very finely minced or mashed 
to a pulp after the food is cooked. 

2. This recipe allows of great variation; note the following possibilities as to the thick- 
ness of the sauce, the number of eggs, etc.: 

Use 1-4 tb. flour in making 1 c. sauce. 
Use 1-3 tb. fat in making 1 c. sauce. 
Use 1-3 yolks of eggs. 
Use 1-4 whites of eggs. 
Use 3^-1 c. grated cheese. 

Browned flour may be substituted for white flour in the sauce. Use a little 
more browned flour than white. Why? Bread crumbs are often added to 
the recipe. Cheese fondue is cheese souffle in which one of the following is 
substituted for flour: 

Bread crumbs (generally used) 
Bread, sliced 
Rice or other cereal 

3. Savory souffl6, as well as all other baked souffles, may be baked in small molds called 
timbales, such timbale mixtures always being made stiff enough to mold. * 

4. Savory souffle and cheese fondue are sometimes served without being baked in the 
regular way. Heat the mixture in a double boiler (for example, imtil any cheese present is 
melted), and pour it over toast or crackers; serve at once or place in the oven for 2-5 min. 

5. See pages 202 and 203 for S3mopses of (a) t3rpes of souffle, (b) viscous substances. 



Ingredients: 

Mtb. 

2tb. 

Mt. 

Htb. 

Ht. 

2tb. 

dash 

dash 

10 



Cheese Fondue 

{Recipe I) 

% c. soft, stale bread crumbs 

% c. hot milk or water 

3^ tb. butter or a substitute 

% c. grated cheese 

2 yolks of eggs, beaten very light 

2 whites of eggs, beaten stiflE 

Ji t. salt 

Pepper 



138 LESSONS IN COOKERY 

Method: 

1. Soak or cook crumbs and milk or water together to make a smooth mixture. 

2. Add all the other ingredients except the eggs, and cook mixture 1 min. in a 
double boiler. 

3. Add the foregoing mixture to the yolks of eggs. 

4. Fold in the whites of eggs. 

5. Grease a baking dish, add mixture, and bake in a moderate oven 15-20 min., 
or until fondue is puffed and firm. Serve at once. 

Notes: 

1. One-half c. cooked rice or other cereal may be substituted for crumbs in this recipe. 

2. Is this recipe a "complete" dish? 



Cheese Fondue 

(Recipe II) 
Ingredients: 

Ji yolk 4 yolks of eggs, beaten very light 

2 tb. 3 c. milk 

dash J^t. salt 

spk. Dash of cayemie pepper 

J^ white 4 whites of eggs, beaten stiff 

IJi' square 3 slices stale bread (no crusts), thickly buttered 

1 1. M lb. American cheese, grated or finely chopped 

dash Paprika to taste 

Method: 

1. Mix the first four ingredients, then fold in the whites of eggs. 

2. Put buttered bread in the bottom of a large buttered baking dish, sprinkle 
it with cheese and paprika, and add egg mixture. 

3. Bake mixture in a hot oven 20 min. , or until it is very light, and serve at once. 

Notes: 

1. K preferred, beat the yolks and whites of eggs together. 

2. Bake the dass recipe in a custard cup. 

SAFETY RULES FOR HOT WEATHERS 

Protein foods have a marked tendency to imdergo bacterial and chemical changes in 
warm weather. Certain classes of bacteria, of which Bacillus proteus is an example, produce 
what we call food poisons — certain chemical substances. Some of these chemical substances 
are called ptomaines. There are also bacterial and chemical products of foods which have 
a very disagreeable odor and yet are not poisons; some ptomaines are also included among 
these. Formerly it was thought that ptomaines were the cause of all the so-called food- 
poison illnesses (except where chemicals "were added), but it has been shown in recent years 

*This outline was prepared by A. D. Emmett, Ph.D. 



DIET FOR ADULTS 139 

that ptomaines are, as a matter of fact, possibly the least of the factors with which we are 
to be concerned. In the large majority of tests that have been made where decomposed 
foods have apparently caused sickness, the presence of the poisonous ptomaines could not 
be proved. There are also products resulting from bacterial growth on foods called 
toxins. That is to say, we are now forced to recognize that the danger of both the toxins 
and the poisonous class of ptomaines must be borne in mind in the preservation of foods. 
Further, in considering the poisonous foods, it is well to recall that some people have a 
peculiar sensitization or susceptibility toward certain foods; that is, these foods act as 
poisons. This is illustrated in the case of eggs and strawberries. 

Proper precautions should be carefully borne in mind in the preparation of foods for 
use and in the storage of foods, in order that the formation of the poisonous substances 
especially may be prevented. 

1. Note that food poisoning is most likely to occur in hot, sultry weather. 

2. Remember that foods for use in hot weather should be sotmd, fresh, and 
thoroughly cooked. 

3. Foods should be eaten immediately after being cooked, or else be refrigerated 
property. Beware of left-overs, particulariy protein foods. If foods must be kept 
over, place them in the refrigerator at once. 

4. Beware of foods in which food poisons most often occur, namely, the 
following protein foods: 

Meat (such as veal and cold-storage chicken) 

Fish (such as lobster salad, crab meat, shrimps, oysters, clams, etc.) 
Game or other meat that is too **high" 
Preserved food (such as meat, fish, or milk) 
Soup stock and other dishes rich in gelatin 
Peas and baked beans 
Ice cream 
Beware of any putrifying odor in the foregoing foods. 

5. Beware of protein foods cut in small pieces (see Note 1), especially chopped 
and other finely cut meats used in such dishes as the following: 

Sausage 

Creamed chicken, chicken salad, croquettes, souffl6, etc. 

Meat pie 

Veal stew 

Irish stew 

6. Beware of eating protein foods at picnics, etc. (see Note 2), where these foods 
have had to be prepared some time in advance and have not been properly chilled 
and kept covered. Note the danger of allowing protein foods to stand at ordinary 
temperature after cooking. 

Especially in hot weather, serve meats, etc., immediately after they are cooked, 
but if they must stand, observe the following precautions: 

a. Let them stand in the same kettles (not metal) in which they were 
cooked; transferring them from one pan to another only increases the 
possibility of contamination. 



140 LESSONS IN COOKERY 

b. Keep the vessels covered, so as to keep out the flies. 

c. Keep foods in a very clean, dry refrigerator; see that all decayed fruit, 
etc., is removed from refrigerator. 

d. Do not allow protein foods to remain for any length, of time at a luke- 
warm temperature, else food poisons are very likely to be formed, as 
bacteria grow rapidly at such a temperature; the danger is particularly 
great if the foods are underdone. As soon as protein foods are done, 
cool them quickly, cover, and place them in the refrigerator; this 
applies to foods cooked in the fireless cooker as well as in other ways. 
When any of the following protein foods are not to be served at once, 
chill them as soon as they are taken from the fire: 

Soups 

Fish 

Meat (veal, lamb, poultry) 

Etc. 

7. Beware of eating in restaurants, drug stores, candy shops; etc., where the 
cooking methods are not altogether known. 

8. Remember that, in general, it is useless to reheat meat or other protein foods 
in order to make them wholesome, for, once food poisons are formed, some of them 
cannot be destroyed by heating. 

Notes: 

1. Most cases of food poisoning occur with foods rich in protein. If the foods are 
chopped, ground, or cut in small pieces, the tendency toward bacterial decomposition is 
increased owing to the additional surfaces exposed. Food poisons are produced by bacteria 
buried within the food as well as by those exposed to the air; that is, both anaerobic and 
aerobic bacteria produce food poisons. 

2. Large numbers of persons at picnics, church suppers, etc., are sometimes made sick 
by eating creamed chicken, etc., owing to the fact that, in order to avoid hurry at the last 
minute, the foods were prepared a day or two in advance, instructions a, 6, c, and d of Rule 
6 not being followed. 

3. Consult Marshall's Microbiology (1917 ed.); Kendall's Bacteriology; and Vaughan's 
Cellular Toxins, 



OMELETS 

A breakfast menu 

Oatmeal 
Foamy omelet Baked potatoes * 

Toast Coffee 



Foamy Omelet 

Ingredients: 

1 yolk of egg, beaten in a bowl with a Dover beater until thick and light yellow 

Salt 

Pepper (such as paprika or cayenne) 

1 tb. milk or water 

1 1. butter 

1 white of egg, beaten on a plate with a wire beater until stiff, but not dry (beaten 

until it will not slip off plate when inverted) 
Parsley 

Method: 

1. Add salt, pepper, and liquid to the yolk of egg. (If preferred, add the salt 
to the white before beating the latter.) 

2. Fold the white into the yolk; fold until the mass is of one consistency, that 
is, no liquid is left in the bottom of bowl. 

3. Melt butter in a steel saut^ing pan, and add omelet. 

4. Cook by either of two methods: 

a. Cook omelet over hot water: 

(1) Place a little simmering water in a basin, for example, l*'. 

(2) Set saut6ing pan of omelet in water and cover it with a basin. 

(3) Cook omelet 4-6 min. Keep the water at the simmering point ; 
do not let it fall below this point. Never allow the water to boil. 

b. Cook omelet by direct heat: 

(1) Turn flame as low as it' will bum; keep flame low for the full 
period of cooking. 

(2) Place asbestos mat at one side of the flame. 

(3) Place omelet on one side of mat, as far from flame as possible. 

(4) Cover with a bowl or basin. Turn pan around occasionally 
during the 5-10 min. cooking process. (Note that it is difficult 
to keep the omelet from browning.) 

6. When omelet is very light, firm, and underneath is hard and either a deep 
orange or a delicate brown, dry upon surface by holding omelet in a very slow 

141 



142 LESSONS IN COOKERY 

baldng-oven, or by holding it under a low flame in the broiling oven. If the omelet 
has been kept carefully covered in step 4, this oven-drying is not always necessary. 

6. Score the omelet in a line at right angles to handle of pan, then fold omelet 
with a spatula, and invert pan so that it will be an easy matter to turn omelet 
out upon a hot platter. 

7. Garnish with any of the following: 

Parsley, chopped or whole 
Celery tips, chopped or whole 
Asparagus tips, cgoked 
Sauce, such as tomato 

Curled bacon (cook narrow strips of bacon, then twist each piece between two 
forks) 

8. Serve at once. (Why?) 

Notes: 

1. Fresh, ice-cold eggs are essential. 

2. In general, a Dover beater produces a less porous white than a wire beater. Which 
is better for tise in a foamy omelet, a velvety white or a spongy white? 

Beat the white the last thing before combining the ingredients of the omelet. (Why?) 
Do not fold the white into the yolk imtil the melted butter is ready, else loss ctf air 
results. 

3. A good omelet is light (air and steam are the leavening agents), firm, and tender 
and delicate in texture. The ideal omelet is not a deep brown underneath. Browned 
egg is tough and is less easily digested than egg not browned. 

An omelet is better cooked at a low temperature, since a high temperature toughens the 
large quantity of protein present. The omelet produced by method a (see step 4) is no more 
Hght and fluffy than that produced by method 6, but it has a possible advantage in that 
it is never brown; cooking over hot water insures a low temperature and hence no browning. 

4. A perfectly smooth saut^ing pan is essential for making an omelet. Use salt or almost 
any scouring powder for polishing the pan; if salt is used, apply it with soft paper. 

5. A foamy omelet is really sponge cake minus the sugar and flour. 

6. Study any standard cookbook for the making of a French, or creamy, omelet. 

POSSIBLE ADDITIONS TO FOAMY AND FRENCH OMELETS 

Breadstuff s softfened by being soaked in stock, milk, or other liquid, then drained: 

Bread, stale 

Crackers 
• Toast 
Cereals (such as boiled rice or hominy) 
Cheese, cottage 
Cheese, grated 

Fish and 0)rsters (broiled, creamed, etc.) » 

Meats, cooked, such as: 

Bacon Ham 

Brains (saut6ed) Tongue 

Chicken Veal 

Nuts (such as almonds) 
Nut butter (such as almond or peanut) 



DIET FOR ADULTS 143 



Seasonings, miscellaneous: 

Herbs 

Onion jviice (a few drops to each egg) 

Pepper (paprika, cayenne, etc.) 

Salt (celery, garlic, and onion) 
Sweets: 

Fruit, canned or stewed Honey 

Fruit, fresh, lightly sugared: Jellies 

Stoned cherries Marmalades 

Sliced peaches Sugar, powdered or granulated 

Etc. Caramel sauce 

Vegetables and pickles: 

Celery Peas, green 

Com, stewed Pepper, sweet green 

Mushrooms Pickles (such as sweet-cucumber) 

Olives (green, ripe, or pimento) Pimentos 

Onions, boiled or saut6ed tmtil brown Spinach (mixed with minced ham) 

Onions, raw (grated) Tomatoes (stewed until thick, and 

Parsley (J^-J^ t. to each egg) pressed through a sieve) 

Notes: 

1. The sweets are used in sweet omelets; the other additions, as a rule, are used in 
savory omelets only. Nuts are used in either sweet or savory omelets. 

2. Average proportions are as follows: 

a. Allow 2-4 tb. breadstuflE or cooked cereal to each egg used. 

b. With the exception of parsley, allow to each egg 1-2 tb. or more of each o( 
the following: 

Cheese Meat 

Fish Nuts 

Fruits Pickles 

Jelly Vegetables 

3. All meats, fish, nuts, vegetables, and pickles should be minced or chopped fine. 

4. In most cases the ingredients may be added in any of the following ways: 

a. Mixed with beaten yolk of egg used in making the omelet, 

b. Folded into the omelet just before cooking. 

c. Spread on omelet just before folding (tomatoes and all sweets £fre usually so 
treated). 

6. Either tomato juice or meat stock niay be substituted for the usual milk or water 
of omelet. 

6. After folding a sweet omelet, sprinkle it with powdered sugar, arid serve at once. 

7. When any foamy omelet, savory or sweet, is baked, not saut^ed, an omelet-souffl6 
results. (For omelet-soufii^, extra whites of eggs are sometimes added to the usual ingre- 
dients for omelet.) Make an omelet-souffl6 as follows: 

a. Butter a small baking dish, and put in a layer of meat or any other addition. 

b. Pour in the omelet. 

c. Place dish in a moderate oven and bake 15-20 min., or until omelet is light 

and firm. 

d. Serve at once. 



VEGETABLES 
INTRODUCTION 

AIMS IN COOKING VEGETABLES 

I. To make more digestible (by disintegration of cellulose, swelling of starch 

grains, etc.) 
II. To retain and develop flavor 

III. To preserve the food value as far as possible, that is, to retain all the juice, etc. 
Note the following points in regard to III: 

1. The juice is valuable chiefly because of the mineral salts, sugar, and 
flavorings dissolved in it. 

2. Comparative losses in cooking vegetables are as follows: 

METHOD LOSS OF NUTRIMENT (AND FLAVOR) 

a. Steaming, or cooking in a steamer . . No nutritive value lost 

b. Boiling No loss of nutriment if all the vegetable 

stock is utilized 

c. Baking No nutritive value lost 

Baking undoubtedly is the best method for white and sweet potatoes. 
(Why?) It is an excellent method for any of the following: 

Beets 

Squash 

Pumpkin 

Onions 

Etc. 

To steam vegetables in class: Place vegetables in a sieve, place sieve 
over a saucepan of boiling water, cover it tight, and cook until vege- 
tables are tender. 

3. To boil a vegetable, place it in boiling salted water and boil it until it 
is tender. Wherever possible, preserve all the nutriment of the 
vegetable, taking the following steps: 

a. Remove the skin with as thin parings as possible, or, better still, 
do not pare at all. If potatoes are boiled in their jackets, almost 
no nutriment escapes into the water. 

6. Do not discard vegetable water left (except from some vegetables 
boiled in their skins) ; use it in sauces or soups. 

144 



DIET FOR ADULTS 145 

It is a very simple matter to use all the vegetable stock in sauces 
(or soups) if either one of the following rules is observed: 

a. Boil the vegetable in as small a quantity of water as possible; 
that is, boil it in its own juices to a great extent. Use so 
little water that all or nearly all of it is evaporated at the 
end of the process. In the case of spinach no water need be 
added. Why? 

b. Use more water than in a, and then boil it down almost to 
dryness after vegetable is tender. 

4. A very few vegetables (such as old onions and cabbage) are so strong 
in flavor that sometimes the cook may wish to sacrifice nutritive 
value in order to secure delicacy of flavor. Note the following 
method for extracting juices in boiling such vegetables. 

To Boil Vegetables to Extract Juices 

Method: 

1. Pare or peel vegetables and cut them in small pieces; in other words, arrange 
to expose a large surface to the action of water. 

2. Soak them 1-2 hr. in cold water. If they are dried or wilted, make vege- ' 
tables crisp and pltunp by soaking them several hours in cold water to cover. 

3. Place them over fire in cold, unsalted water in a large kettle, and heat grad- 
ually to the boiling point. Use much water in boiling, and change water often. 

4. Boil them rapidly and uncovered until they are tender, then drain them. 

Noi€8: 

1. The following vegetables, especially if old and of certain varieties, are often con- 
sidered too strong in flavor and are therefore cooked by part or all of the foregoing method: 

Cabbage Peppers, green, if "hot" 

Onions Sorrel 

^arsnips Turnips 

2. The object in this method is to remove part of the strong juices and so to produce 
a vegetable of delicate flavor. Note that if juice is discarded, food value (ash and sugar 
chiefly) is sacrificed, unless, as is possible in all cases, the water drained from the 
vegetables is utilized in soups and sauces. Strong onion and cabbage waters are excellent 
for making cream soups. It is sometimes advisable to can such strong waters, and so to 
keep them for use in soups and sauces. 

3. Possible aids in reducing or overcoming the strong flavors of vegetables are as 
follows: 

Cut vegetables in smaU pieces. 

Soak vegetables in cold water. ' 

Place vegetables over fire in cold water. 

Use several waters, each time using a large quantity of water. 

Add a little soda to water (not a very desirable method). 

Add a little acid (such as vinegar) to water. 





146 LESSONS IN COOKERY 

4. Little or no objectionable odor results from boiling onions, cabbage, etc., if the 
following rules are observed: 

a. Do not cover saucepan (thus allowing a gradual escape of odors). 

b. As soon as the cabbage or other vegetable is drained, pour the water into the 
sink and then flush the sink well with cold water. 

Miscellaneous Notes on Vegetables 

1. Possible methods of preserving the brightness of color of green peas and other 
vegetables during boiling are as follows: 

Cook vegetables in uncovered saucepans. 
Avoid overcooking the vegetables. 
Add salt to water. 
Add a littlef soda to water. 

Pour cold water over or through vegetables (spinach, etc.), after draining off the 
water in which they have been cooked. 

2. Green peas and other green vegetables of delicate flavor lose their flavor and sweet- 
ness imless they are very carefully cooked. 

3. As a rule, onions boil tender in 45-60 min. Peel onions under cold water in order 
that the volatile bodies so irritating to the eyes may be retained by the water. 

4. Note ways of serving boiled or steamed vegetables: 

o. With melted butter, salt, pepper, and vegetable stock (best method for vege- 
tables of delicate flavor, such as asparagus) 

b. With cream sauce, or with milk and cream and seasonings (cream sauce has 
a tendency to conceal the real flavor of vegetables) • 

c. Mashed 

d. Escalloped, with white sauce or not 

e. Browned in oven after being rolled in melted butter, then in fine crumbs 
Etc. 

5. For smaU children or persons of delicate digestion it is often well to press the peas, 
com, etc., through a sieve before serving them. 



BOILED, STEAMED, AND BAKED VEGETABLES 

Luncheon 

Creamed chicken on toast Biscuits 

Green peas, with butter 

Lemon sherbet 



Green Peas, with Butter or Cream 

Method: 

1. Wash freshly picked young peas, and shell them. (Why use fresh peas?) 
If it is necessary to use peas at all wilted, freshen shelled peas by soaking them in 
cold water 15-20 min., then drain them. 

2. Barely cover peas with boiling water containing a little salt; use only a little 
more than enough water to keep the peas from burning. Cook peas 10-20 min., 
or until they are tender, in an uncovered saucepan; a little sugar in the water is 
sometimes a desirable addition. 

Very young peas will cook tender in 10 min. Avoid overcooking even old peas, 
since almost any peas will become tough if they are cooked over 20 min. ^ 

3. Remove peas from the liquid, boil the liquid down almost to dryness, and 
pour it over the peas. 

4. Season with salt, pepper, and butter or cream; a little sugar may be added, 
if desired; for example, 3^ t. sugar to 1 c. peas. 

6. Serve hot and at once. 

Notes: 

1, A lettuce leaf laid in the bottom of the .saucepan will help to keep the peas from 
scorching. 

2. Green peas axe pretty served as follows in turnip cups: 

a. Pare a smaU, round turnip, and cut off the stem end so that the vegetable 
will stand. 

b. Form a cup by scooping out the inside; the walls of the cup should be at least 
H" thick. 

c. Cover cup with boiling water and boil it 25-30 min., or until it is tender. 

d. Drain, fill cup with green peas cooked in a cream sauce, and sprinkle with 
minced parsley. 

The following are possible substitutes for the turnip cups: 
Beet or other vegetable cups 
Toast or rice croustades 
Timbale cases (see page 94) 

147 



148 LESSONS IN COOKERY 

Sweet Com on the Cob 

Method: 

1. Select young, fresh ears. (Com should be cooked as soon as possible after 
being picked, since it loses its sweetness with age.) 

2. Remove the husks and all the silk. 

3. Boil com until it is tender, allowing 7-12 min. for young com, and 20 min. 
for very old com. (Most persons cook com too long; long boiling toughens the 
cellulose.) 

4. Drain, and serve at once. 

Notes: 

1. Cook the com in soft water, since hard water hardens the cellulose and turns it yellow. 

2. Pupil to experiment as to the desirability of salt in the water for boiling com. 

Succotash 

{A derivative of boiled corn) 
Ingredients: 

2 c. fresh raw sweet com cut from the cob 
IJ^ c. shelled lima or kidney beans, fresh 
Salt and pepper 
1 c. cream (or 1 c. milk and 1-2 tb. butter) 

Method: 

1. Add boiling salted water barely to cover beans, and cook 30 min., or until 
they are almost tender. 

2. Add com, and simmer mixture 10-15 min. 

3. Add milk and seasonings, simmer 5 min., and serve. Thicken the liquid 
with a little flour, if desired. 

Notes: 

1. Use so little water in cooking the vegetables that all of it can be retained in the sauce. 

2. If com is at all tough, score through each row of the kemels, press out the pulp with 
the dull edge of a knife, then scrape the cob with the knife. 

3. The flavor of the succotash is improved if the com cobs are boiled with the beans. 

4. Succotash is also made from canned or dried beans and com; see recipe, page 106. 

Okra, Creole Style 
Method: 

1. Wash 1 doz. tender okra pods, and cut off both ends from each pod. 

2. Place pods in boiling salted water and cook until they are tender. 

3. Saute the following together without browning: 

1 chopped onion 3^ a red or green pepper 

1 clove of garlic A little butter 

4. Add to the onion mixture 6-8 chopped tomatoes and simmer 3^ hr. 

5. Add the boiled okra pods, cover, and cook until the mixture thickens. 

6. Add salt, and serve the whole on slices of hot buttered toast. 



DIET FOR ADULTS 149 

Asparagus on Toast 



Method: 



1. Cut oflE lower parts of stalks as far down as they will snap, wash asparagus, 
remove scales, and tie in bunches. 

2. Steam; or cook in boiling salted water 15 min., or until asparagus is tender, 
leaving tips out of water the first 10 min. (Use but little water in boiling.) 

3. Drain, place bunch on buttered toast, and remove string. 

4. Add melted butter, paprika, and also the asparagus liquor boiled down to a 
very small voltmie. 

Notes: 

1. Cucumbers, cut in strips or slices, may be boiled or steamed and served on toast the 
same as asparagus. Note other methods for serving cucumbers: 

Fried 

Saut^ed 

Stuffed and baked the same as peppers or tomatoes 

Chopped and added to meat or fish sauces 

Sliced for use in salad, or used as a cup for any salad filling 

2. Various sauces, such as the following, may be prepared from asparagus water. 

Asparagus Sauce 

Ingredients: 

yi c. asparagus water 

2 tb. cream 

2 yolks of eggs, beaten very light 

2 t. chopped parsley 

Salt and pepper 

A blade of mace 

% t. lemon juice 

2 t. butter 

Method: 

1. Mix all but the last two ingredients and stir them 3-4 min. in a double 
boiler. Avoid overcooking. Why? 

2. Remove sauce from fire and add butter and acid. 

3. Serve on asparagus, meat croquettes, or other foods. 

Boiled Cabbage 

Method: 

1. Nearly fill with water a very large saucepan. 

2. When the water is boiling hard, add cabbage leaves one at a time and so 
gradually that boiling does not cease. 

3. Press down the leaves and boil them rapidly 10-15 min. (Do not cover pan.) 
If cabbage is very young, a period of 6 min. is sometimes long enough. Avoid 



160 LESSONS IN COOKERY 

cooking the cabbage until the crispness is all gone, else it loses its flavor and color. 
(When cabbage is served, the leaves shotild be crisp, and white or a delicate green, 
not brown.) 

4. Drain at once, and add salt, pepper, and butter. 

Notes: 

1. Cabbage boiled by this method is as delicate as cauliflower and much less expensive. 
Many consider the heart of the cabbage as good as the leaves for cooking purposes. 

2. If preferred, steam the cabbage for the same length of time, that is, 10-15 min. 

3. If red cabbage loses color during the boiling process, restore the color by adding a 
little vinegar to the water. 

« 4. Cabbage is rich in mineral matter and is a valuable food. It is one of the most 
useful vegetables, being available during the late fall, winter, and spring months, when other 
green vegetables may be difficult to procure. 

5. Discuss the relative digestibility of raw cabbage, cabbage cooked a short time, and 
cabbage cooked a long time. 

Boiled Beeto 
Method: 

1. Wash beets, and if they are wilted soak them over night in cold water. If 
beets are very wilted, discard them, as they are not fit for cooking. 

2. Cut off stems up to within 2''-S'^ of each beet, keeping skin of beet intact so 
as to avoid bleeding. 

3. Cook beets in boiling water until they are tender, allowing 1-5 hr. accord- 
ing to the age of the beets; avoid fork holes in the beets. 

4. Drain beets, and place them in cold water 2-3 min. (Why?) 

6. Rub off the skins, and slice or quarter the beets. 

6. Add salt, pepper, and butter and serve hot; or add salt, pepper, and vinegar 
and serve hot or cold. 

A/ofes: 

1. The addition of vinegar to boiled beets helps to disintegrate, or break up, the cellulose. 

2. In all recipes for beets aim at the retention of ash, sugar, and color. Steaming and 
baking are both excellent methods for cooking beets. Why? 

Baked Beeto 

Method: 

1. Wash beets and cut oflE stems up to within 2''-3'' of each beet. 

2. Bake beets until they are tender, allowing 1-2 hr. for old beets, less time 
for very young beets. Turn them over often during the baking process, but do 
not cause bleeding by use of a fork. 

3. Peel, slice, and serve them in any of the ways in which boiled beets are 
served. 

Note: 

The flavor of baked beets is excellent. Compare baked beets with boiled beets as to 
color and sweetness. 



SOUR-SWEET VEGETABLES 

iMncheon 

Cheese souffl6 Bread and butter 

Wilted lettuce 
Stewed plums Sponge cake 



The following vegetables are sometimes served with sour-sweet sauces — that 
is, sauces containing vinegar, or lemon juice, and sugar: 
String beans (green or wax) 
Carrots 
Lettuce 
Etc. 

String Beans with Bacon 

Method: 

1. Wash and string beans. 

2. Gather a bunch of pods (parallel) in the hand, lay them on a meat board, 
and cut all at once into inch pieces, cutting straight across or diagonally. 

3. Place them in boiling salted water and cook until they are tender, then drain. 

4. Cut slices of bacon into small cubes and sautd them to a delicate brown. 

6. Add the cooked beans and a little onion juice to the bacon, mix, heat well, 
and serve with or without a sour-sweet sauce (see recipe below). 

Noie: 

Carrots and some other vegetables may be substituted for beans. 

Sour^weet Sauce 

Ingredients: 

2 tb. sugar 
}i tb. flour 
3^ c. boiling liquid, selected singly or in combination from the following: 

Water 

Meat stock 

Vegetable stock 
H t. salt 
Dash of paprika 
1 tb. vinegar 

Method: 

1. Caramelize the sugar in a very small saut6ing pan or saucepan. 

2. Remove froni the fire, add the flour, and stir until mixture is smooth. 

161 



152 LESSONS IN COOKERY 

3. Stirring constantly, add the boiling liquid very gradually, then cook mixture 
to the consistency of thin cream. 

4. Add the other ingredients, and reheat. 

Note: 

This recipe results in Ji c. sauce, a sufficient dressing for 2 c. cooked string beans, boiled 
carrots, or other vegetable. After pouring the sauce over the vegetable, mix with a fork 
imtil every piece of vegetable is covered with the dressing. 

Wilted Lettuce 

Ingredients: . (4 servings) 

1 h. tb. 2 c. shredded lettuce, packed fairly solid 

4 squares 4 thin slices bacon or ham, cut with shears into ^' squares 

dash He t. paprika 

It.- IH tb. light brown sugar (avoid dark) 

1 tb. 3-4 tb. very weak vinegar 

Method: 

1. Saut6 the meat until it is crisp. 

2. Add the paprika, sugar, and vinegar to the meat, and cook until mixture is 
as thick as cream. 

3. Pour this hot sour-sweet sauce over the lettuce, and mix well with a fork. 

4. Serve at once as a vegetable. 

Notes: 

1. This recipe may also be served ice-cold as a salad; in this case either hot or cold 
dressing should be added. 

2. The sour-sweet sauce is really one type of French dressing. 

3. To shred lettuce: Wash the lettuce, fold every three or four leaves together to form 
a tight roll, then cut in ]/^^ ribbons by means of shears. 

4. If preferred, allow the leaves to remain whole. 

5. Head lettuce is usually more desirable than the leaf. 

6. Note possible variations in the recipe: 

Substitute sour cream for part of the vinegar. 

Substitute dandehon greens or shredded cabbage for the lettuce. 

Add a beaten egg. 

Add sliced young green onions. 

Garnish with slices of hard-cooked eggs. 



FRESH-VEGETABLE STEWS, OR CHOWDERS 



Luncheon 



Vegetable stew 



Graham wafers 



Baked custard 



Ingredients: 

2t. 
2t. 
Itb. 
3tb. 

Itb. 
It. 

He. 



Mixed- Vegetable Chowder 



Vegetables cut in Ji' cubes 

}^c. carrots 

^ c. turnips 

J^ c. celery 

1}4 c. potatoes 
Vegetables, chopped: 

14 tb. parsley 

}/i onion 

}4 green pepper 

}4 c. tomatoes 

J^ c. green com 
5 tb. bacon fat 

Water to cover saut^ed vegetables (1 pt. or more watej:) 
Salt and paprika 



measured after being cut into 
cubes or chopped 



Corn Chowder 

Ingredients: 

1}4 tb. 1 qt. sweet com, fresh raw or canned 

2 tb. 1 pt. strained tomatoes 

1 h. tb. 1 pt. j^" potato cubes 

Vegetables, chopped fine: 
}4 t. Green pepper 

1 1. Celery or celery root 

Ji t. Parsley 

It. 1 onion 

one Ji*' cube Two I*' cubes fat salt pork 

}4 c. (about) Water to cover saut^ed vegetables 

}4 Uneeda 1 tb. flour or cracker crtunbs 

}^ c. milk 1 pt. milk 

1 1. 1}4 tb. butter 

dash 1 1. salt 

dash Pepper 

11 153 



154 


LESSONS IN COOKERY 




Potato Chowder 


Ingredietita: 




2h.tb. 


2 c. potato cubes ( Ji") 


It. 


1 small onion, chopped 


3 cubes 


2 tb. Ji' cubes of bacon 


He. 


Water to cover saut^ed vegetables 


Ht. 


H tb. flour 


Itb. 


1 c. milk 


Ht. 


H tb. butter 


dash 


Salt and pepper 


spk. 


1 1. chopped parsley 



GENERAL METHOD FOR VEGETABLE STEWS 

1. Add to the fat all the vegetables except any of the following included in the 
recipe, and saut^ 10 min.* 

Com 
Tomatoes 
Parsley 
Keep pan covered as much as possible, and stir contents once in a while. 

2. Add water to cover the vegetables, place lid on pan, and simmer J^2 hr., 
or until the vegetables are tender. 

3. Add com and tomatoes, if used, and boil 3 min. 

4. Add milk, if called for, also thickening and seasoning (butter, parsley, etc.). 
Boil mixture 1 min., and serve over crackers. (Why add milk last thing?) 

Notes: 

1. These stews are useful during every season of the year. 

2. Soup may be made from any of the stews by the addition of extra liquid and the 
mashing of part or all of the solids. 

3. See dried-legume stews, Food Economy, page 95. 



SALADS AND SALAD DRESSINGS 

INTRODUCTION 

CLASSIFICATIOlf OF SALADS 

(This classification is based on food values.) 
/. Light, or appetizer, salads (see Note 2) : 

1. Gelatin-jelly salads 

2. Juicy-vegetable salads (combinations of fresh and very juicy vege- 
tables, such as salad greens, celery, tomatoes, etc.) 

77. Carbohydrate-food salads (see Note 3) : 

1. Fruit salads (made of fruits rich in starch or sugar, such as bananas 
and dates) 

2. Vegetable salads (made of vegetables rich in starch, such as potatoes) 

3. Starchy-nut salads (such as chestnut) 
777. Protein-food salads (see Note 4) : 

1. Cheese saleids 

2. Egg salads 

3. Fish salads 

4. Meat salsids 

5. Nut salads 

6. Dried-legume salads (pea, bean, peanut, etc.) ' 
IV. Completerdish salads (see Note 5) : 

1. Salads containing protein material (such as cream cheese) and fruits 
rich in starch or sugar. 

2. Salads containing protein material and vegetables rich in starch or 
sugar. 

3. Salads containing protein material and starchy nuts. 

4. Salads containing protein material and rice or hominy. 

Notes: 

1. The four groups are named according to the predominating foodstufiE in each. The 
last three groups are more substantial from the standpoint of protein and carbohydrates, 
but are no more essential in the diet than are the appetizer salads. Salads vary greatly 
in nutritive value, inasmuch as so many combinations of meat, eggs, cheese, vegetables, 
fruit, etc., are possible in the various groups. 

2. Appetizer salads are valuable chiefly because they contain the following constituents: 

Appetizing flavors 
Mineral matter 
Water 

155 



156 ESSONS IN COOKERY 

Both types of appetizer salads mentioned in the classification are especially appropriate 
in course dinners; as a mle, either type is served with the meat course of the dinner or just 
following it. 

A palatable salad is made by the addition of French dressing to one or more of the salad 
greens, plain or shredded. 

Toasted crackers are good with appetizer salads. 

3. Fruits and vegetables for carbohydrate-food, or energy, salads, are used either 
raw or cooked. 

All salad dressings are rich in energy value. 

4. Each of the protein-food salads is often served as the principal course in a meal, 
that is, as a meat substitute. 

5. Complete-dish salads are salads each of which approaches the point of being a com- 
plete meal in itself. All are excellent for the use of left-overs. 

CLASSIFICATION OF SALAD DRESSINGS 

7. Uncooked dressings: 

Lemon or lime (see Note 2) 
French (vinegar, or lemon juice, and oil) 
Mayonnaise (egg and oil) 
Sour-cream or sweet-cream 
//. Cooked dressings (incorrectly called cooked mayonnaise) 

Notes: 

1. No rule can be given as to which dressings to serve with certain salads; in fact, each 
of the dressings listed is served with every kind of salad. Many persons prefer mayonnaise 
with meat and fish; note, however, that salads containing much protein and fat, such as 
chicken with mayonnaise, are, as a rule, slowly digested. 

2. Lemon or lime juice, by itself or mixed with a little sugar, is good on lettuce. A 
mixture of vinegar and sugar is also used. 

3. Possible seasonings for salad dressings are as follows: 

Curry powder 

Mustard (used sparingly, if at all) 

Paprika or cayenne 

Salt 

Sugar (permissible with fruit salads, but not with meat or fish) 

4. Beaten white of egg is a very good substitute for whipped cream in salad dressings. 

5. A dressing, if correctly made, is of the right thickness to cling well to the food; there- 
fore, if a dressing is too thick, thin it with sour or sweet cream just before serving. (Never 
thin French dressing.) 

6. Since acid wilts green vegetables, salad dressing should be added to the vegetables 
just before they are served. On the contrary, cubes or slices of meat, fish, and possibly 
potatoes, celery, apples, and some other vegetables and fruits, should be treated as follows: 

a. Marinate them ; that is, let them stand in French dressing for an hour or longer 
before serving them. 

b. Drain, add dressing, and serve. 

7. A salad should be weU mixed. Half fill the salad bowl with alternate layers of food 
and dressing, and toss them together. 



DIET FOR ADULTS 157 

CLASSIFICATION OF SALAD VEGETABLES 

/. Salad greens: 

Cabbage, finely shredded 

Celery cabbage. 

Celery tips 

Chard, Swiss 

Chicory 

Cress, water 

Cress, garden (or peppergrass) 

Dandelion 

Endive 

Escarole 

Mung-bean sprouts (Chinese) 

Lettuce: 

Leaf 

Head 
Mustard 
Nasturtium (stems, leaves, and seeds) 

//. Vegetables other than salad greens: 

Artichokes (cooked) 

Asparagus 

Beans, string 

Beans, whole (such as lima, kidney, or navy) 

Beets 

Cauliflower 

Carrots 
♦Celery 

Com 

♦Cucumbers 
♦Onions 

Peas, green 

Potatoes 

Spinach 
♦Tomatoes 

Notes: 

1. Vegetables the names of which are preceded by an asterisk are usually served raw; 
the others are usually cooked before being used in a salad. 

2. The majority of salad vegetables are succulent; that is, they consist chiefly of water. 

3. The following points pertain to Group I vegetables: 

a. All are light vegetables, and are eaten raw. 

b. Swiss chard is good served by itself, with dressing; likewise several of the other 
salad greens. 

c. Which of the salad greens are substitutes for lettuce? 

d. Lettuce wilts less if cut under water. 

c. Head lettuce is prettier than leaf lettuce, as a rule. 

4. Some of the Group II vegetables are light, some heavy; some are eaten raw, 
some cooked. 



158 



LESSONS IN COOKERY 



CLASSIFICATION OF SALAD OARNISHBS 



/. Garnishes of delicate or neiUral colors: 

Cabbage leaves, young 

Capers 

Celery tips or curled celery 

Cheese (Neufchatel, etc.) 

Cucumbers or bananas split length- 
wise into the natviral thirds, then 
sliced 

Grapes, white 

Lettuce hearts or shredded lettuce 

Marshmallows 

Mint 



Nasturtium leaves 

Nuts, whole, ground, or grated (such as 

pistachio nuts) 
Olives, green (not stuffed) 
Parsley 

Pepper, sweet green, shredded 
Pickles 
Tomato or beet juice for tinting dressing 

a delicate pink 
TruflBes 
Etc. 



//. Garnishes of high and contrasting colors: 




Barberries 


Lobster coral 


Blood-orange carpels 


Nasturtium blossoms 


Beets 


Olives, black 


Carrots 


Olives, stuffed (cut in crosswise slices) 


Cherries 


Pimentos 


Eggs (hard-cooked), sliced or riced 


Pomegranate seeds 


Grapes, red or blue 


Radishes 


Lemon 


Tomatoes 


JeUies 


Etc. 


Noles: 




1. Garnishes should be: 





a. Simple. 

b. Edible: In general, avoid inedible garnishes with salads and other dishes. 

c. Suited to the food with which served: Do not, as a rule, garnish a fruit salad 
with vegetables, and vice versa. 

d. Harmonious as to color and flavor with the rest of the salad: Beware of poor 
color combinations, such as tomatoes with beets. 

2. Pupil to check the names of those garnishes which should be used very sparingly 
because of their biting, or pungent, qualities. 

3. Garnishes may be shredded, sliced, or cut in cubes and fancy shapes. A small flour 
sieve may be used by each pupil for grating almonds and other nuts. 

4. Curled celery is prepared as follows: 

a. Cut thick white stalks into pieces about 2" long. 

b. Make several lengthwise slashes from either end of each piece almost to the 
center. 

c. Soak celery 15-60 min. in cold water (preferably ice water). 

5. When a salad is served as the main dish of a Itmcheon, a rich and thick fruit preserve, 
such as plum conserve, is often placed as a garnish on the plate beside the salad. 

6. Small, red cinnamon candies are sometimes useful for coloring raw apples for use in 
salads (also for coloring the juices of fruit relishes, compotes, etc.). 

7. Hill, Practical Cooking and Serving, page 631, gives suggestions on the use of the 
following as garnishes: 

Hard-cooked eggs Slices of lemon 

Pickled beets Radishes 



DIET FOR ADULTS 169 

ESSENTIALS OF A GOOD SALAD 

I. Attractive design and color scheme 
II. Freshness, crispness, and icy coldness 

III. Correct combination of food flavors 

IV, Correct seasoning in the dressing 

V. Dainty service (use care as to color of dishes, etc.) 

Nolea: 

1. Avoid cutting the ingredients of a salad too fine. 

2. Remember in cooking, as elsewhere, that "human thought makes interesting." 
Plan salads with the following ideas in mind: 

a. Odd are prettier than even numbers in a design scheme. 
. h. A salad should not be flat and scattered, but should be centralized or piled, 
with a peak in the center. A bit of color in the center helps to complete the 
scheme and give character, for example: 
Cherry 
Paprika 
Pepper, green 

3. The backgrotmd of a salad may consist of either of the following: 

a. Salad greens, such as lettuce or cress, served plain or shredded. 
h. A salad cup or bowl, made by scooping out the heart of any of the following 
foods: 

Apple (red) 

Cabbage 

Cucumber 

Grapefruit 

Orange or lemon 

Pepper, sweet green 

Pineapple (small end of) 

Tomato 

A heart leaf of head lettuce may also be used as a cup; use a leaf as a cover, if 
desired. 



APPETIZER SALADS 

Luncheon for a hoi day 

Combination salad 

Cheese toast or crackers, or cottage-cheese sandwiches 

Lemon ice Sponge cake 



GELATIN-JELLY SALADS 

The following, among others, are types of gelatin-jelly salads: 

Tomato jelly (tomato juice to which gelatin is added) 

Aspic jelly (chicken or meat stock to which gelatin is added) 

Cucumber jelly 

Lemon jelly 

Mint jelly 
All the types, as a rule, are unsweetened. 

Vegetables (such as tomatoes), fish, chicken, and meats are often molded in any 
of these jellies; for example, sardines are good in a lemon jelly. 





Cabbage Salad 


Ingredients: 


(8 servings) 


It. 


1 tb. granulated gelatin 


2t. 


Ji c. cold water 


4t. 


3^ c. boiling water 


Ht. 


13^ tb. lemon juice 


3^tb. 


3 tb. strong vinegar 


dash 


Ji t. salt 


2t. 


34 c. sugar 


^t. 


2 pimentos, chopped fine 


mt. 


3^ c. finely chopped celery 


Itb. 


1 c. cabbage cut in fine, long shreds 



Method: 

1. Soak gelatin 3 min. in cold water, then dissolve it in boiling water. 

2. Add the lemon juice, vinegar, salt, and sugar, and stir to dissolve the last 
named. 

3. Stir in the three vegetables. 

4. Pour mixture into individual molds, chill, turn out on head lettuce, and add 
cooked salad dressing. 

Note: 

If preferred, pour the salad into a shallow pan, chill, turn out on a board, and cut in 
cubes or fancy shap^. 

160 



DIET FOR ADULTS 



161 



Tomato-Jelly Salad 





Recipe I 


Ingredients: 


(6 servings) 


He. 


2 c. stewed tomates 




Seasonings for the tomatoes (see Note 1) : 


Mtb. 


2 tb. chopped onion 


Mtb. 


2 tb. chopped celery 


spk. 


1 peppercorn 


dash 


. 2 tb. sugar 


spk. 


3^ bay leaf 


dash 


Ji t. salt 


dash 


3^ t. paprika 


It. 


1^ tb. granulated gelatin 


Itb. 


3 tb. cold water 


1 1. celery 


Chopped celery or sliced eggs for lining mold 



Method: 

1. Add the seasonings to the tomatoes and let them simmer 15 min. 

2. Strain tomatoes, add water to make up original volume, and heat to boiling 
point. 

3. Soak gelatin in the cold water 3-5 min., then dissolve it very thoroughly in 
the boiling-hot tomato juice. 

4. Cover the bottom of six small molds with chopped celery or slices of hard- 
cooked eggs, add jelly, and chill. 

6. Turn out molds on head lettuce and serve with a little cooked salad dressing 
or mayonnaise. 

Notes: 

1. It is well to test the seasoning by tasting the mixture before molding it. Onion 
or celery salt, mace, cloves, etc., are all possible seasonings. 

2. Chopped nuts are a good addition. 

3. Note the following recipe for tomato jelly made with agar-agar, so-called "vegetable 
gelatin." 



Tomato-Jelly Salad 

Recipe II 
Ingredients: (4 servings) 

IJ^ c. strained tomato pulp and juice 
}/2 bay leaf 

1 tb. onion, chopped 
}/2 t. celery salt 

2 t. sugar 
Ji t. salt 

1 tb. lemon juice 

2Ji tb. "vegetable gelatin" 

6 tb. boiling water 



162 LESSONS IN COOKERY 

Method: 

1. Mix the first six ingredients, let them simmer until they are reduced to one- 
half the volimie, then remove the bay leaf. 

2. Soak the gelatin 15-20 min. in warm water to cover, then drain, and discard 
the water. 

3. Add 6 tb. boiling water to the soaked gelatin, cover, and boil 8-10 min., or 
until mixture is clear. 

4. If the gelatin solution is reduced by boiling to a volume of less than 6 tb., 
add water to make tip the 6 tb. 

6. Mix the tomatoes, lemon juice, and gelatin solution, potu- mixture into indi- 
vidual molds, and let it stand at room temperature 50 min., or until it is set. 

6. Chill, turn out upon lettuce leaves, and serve with mayonnaise, cooked 
dressing, or French dressing. 

Grapefruit Salad 

Method: 

1. Prepare a simple lemon jelly from the following: 

2 tb. granulated gelatin 
Ji c. cold water 
1 c. boiling water 
Ji c. lemon juice 
6 tb. sugar 
Dash of salt 

2. When the jelly begins to set, add IM c. pulp of grapefruit. 

3. Mold, and chill. 

LI0HT-VE6BTABLB SALADS 
Combination Salad 

Ingredients: 

Lettuce (plain or clipped with the scissors) 
Tomatoes, sliced 

Cucumbers or sweet green pepper, sliced 
French dressing 

Method: 

1. Mix the sliced vegetables with the dressing, and place them on lettuce. 

2. Garnish salad as desired. 

NaUs: 

1. Cress or any other salad green may be substituted for lettuce. See page 157 for a 
list of salad greens. 

2. Cooked dressing or mayonnaise may be substituted for French dressing; the French 
dressing, however, is more popular. 



DIET FOR ADULTS 163 

Poinsettia Salad 

Method: 

1. Scald a medium-sized tomato, peel and chill it, and remove the stem end. 

2. Cut the tomato in six sections, but not all the way down. (Cut from the 
stem end.) 

3. Place it on lettuce, press it open like a flower, and fill the center with mayon- 
naise or other dressing. 

4. Garnish with a floweret of boiled cauliflower. 

Nole: 

Chopped celery or cucumber may be mixed with the dressing. 

Cucumber Salad 

Method: 

1. Pare a cucumber and place it on a plate. 

2. Make 8-10 parallel slits at right angles to plate, allowing each slit to extend 
almost through the cucumber. 

3. Place a slice of red radish in each slit. 

4. Add French dressing. 

Note: 

If preferred, treat a cucumber as follows: 

a. Slice, and soak it in ice water until ready to serve. 

b. Drain, and place it in a bowl with ice. 

c. Serve with French dressing. 

Miscellaneous Light- Vegetable Salads 

(French dressing or a substitute is understood in each of the salads; lettuce is understood 
in each of them except the last three.) 

1. White or red cabbage, shredded (by itself, or sprinkled with chopped mint or sliced 
Brazil nuts) 

2. Cvirled celery 

3. Vegetable cup (tomato, sweet green pepper, beet,, or carrot) filled with any light vege- 
table, such as green peas, celery, or cabbage 

4. French artichoke 

6. Raw carrots (grated or cut in small irregtdar and jagged pieces), chopped celery or 
pecans 

6. A mold of spinach on a slice of boiled turnip 

7. String beans, minced onion, thinly sliced radishes 

8. Sliced Spanish onions, sliced oranges, chopped green peppers 

9. Cress, radishes or celery, cucumbers 

10. }4 c. shredded endive or chicory, J^ c. diced celery, 1 1. each of chopped parsley, onion, 
and green pepper or pimento; slices of cucumber or tomato as garnish 

11. Cauliflower, pimentos, head lettuce or endive 



164 



LESSONS IN COOKERY 



Ingredients: 

dash 

spk. 

%t, 

2t. 

spk. 



FRENCH DRESSING AND SALAD ACCOMPANIMENTS 
French Dressing 



14 1. salt 

H t. pepper (such as paprika) 

1 tb. vinegar or lemon juice, or a mixture of the two 

3 tb. olive oil (4-5 tb. sometimes used) 

Dash of sugar, if desired 



Method: 

1. Mix the oil and seasonings together in a bowl. 

2. Add acid slowly, and beat hard 1-3 min., or until a thin emulsion results; 
note that the vinegar disappears as such. The emulsion results more quickly if 
all ingredients and utensils are cold at the start, and a small piece of ice is placed 
in the bowl. 

Notes: 

. 1. Use care as to seasonings. Note the following possible variations in and additions 
to French dressing. (Most of these may also be used with cooked dressings and with 
mayonnaise.) 



Acids 

(Used singly or in 

combination 


Powdered 
Seasonings 


Vegetables and 

Pickles Finely 

Chopped 


Miscellaneous 
Additions 


Vinegar: 
Cider 


Curry (good in a 


Beets 


Capers 


dressing for 


Celery 


Cheese, Roquefort or 


Chervil 


cheese salad) 


. Chives 


cream 


Raspberry 


Pepper: 
Cayenne 


Mint 


Chili sauce 


Tarragon 


Onions (such as 


Eggs, hard-cooked and 


Etc. 


Paprika 


Bermuda) 


chopped 


Fruit acid: 


White 


Parsley 


Garlic clove 


Grapefruit 


Salt: 


Peppergrass 


Horse-radish 


Lemon 


Celery 


Peppers, green or red 


Nuts, chopped 


Lime 


Garlic 


Pimentos 


Onion juice 


Orange 


Onion 


Watercress 


Sardines, reduced to a 


Pineapple 


Sugar, powdered 


Pickles: 


pulp 


Etc. 




Dill 


Sauce, tabasco 






Olives, green or ripe 


Sauce, Worcestershire 






Etc. 


Tomato catsup 



Fruit acid, a much more wholesome acid than vinegar, may be used in place of part or 
all of the vinegar. 

The bowl may be rubbed with garlic, or a clove of garlic, cut in halves, may be allowed 
to stand in French dressing 2 hr. before it is served. 

French dressing which has been creamed with Roquefort or cream cheese is excellent 
on head lettuce. 

2. Various methods of beating the ingredients together are as follows: 
Use a Dover beater. 
Use a spoon or fork. 
Shake ingredients together in a bottle or cruet. 



DIET FOR ADULTS 165 

3. French dressing does not cling well to lettuce and other foods unless it is slightly 
thick. It is never a very thick emulsion. Since French dressing is not a permanent emul- 
sion, it is often well to prepare it at the table. 

4. Note the chief uses of French dressing: 

a. With raw fruits, such as oranges 

b. With raw salad vegetables, such as lettuce, cress, etc. (green vegetables, 
carrots, etc., are used) 

c. For marinating cooked sala:d foods, such as chicken, fish, or potatoes. Use 
more acid than oil in this case; for example, use 1 tb. oil to 3 tb. vinegar. 
Prepare the food and let it stand in the dressing 1-2 hr., then drain and add 
mayonnaise or other dressing. 

5. A peanut dressing is made by beating the following ingredients together imtil they 
are creamy: 

}4 c. peanut butter (this corresponds to the oil of French dressing) 

2 tb. water 

Paprika ^ 

2 tb. vinegar or lemon juice 

1 1. salt 

Mustard, if desired 

Cheese Toast or Crackers 

Ingredients: 

1 cracker or 1 slice toast 

Butter 

1-4 1. grated cheese 

Cayenne or mustard 

Method: 

1. Butter the cracker or toast, then spread it with cheese. 

2. Sprinkle toast with cayenne or mustard, and heat it in a slow oven 2-3 min., 
or until the cheese is melted and slightly brown. 

3. Serve with salad or soup. 

Note- 
Cheese in various forms is frequently served with salads. Its use with light salads is 
excellent in that the protein and fat of the cheese supplement the juicy vegetables. Cheese 
is served by itself, or in hot or cold cheese mixtures; note the following suggestions: 

a. Cheese of any kind may be served with toasted or untoasted wafers. 

b. Soft cream cheese, sliced or made into Httle balls, is passed to the guest or 
placed on the salad plate. If desired, season the cheese before serving it 
by adding any of the following ingredients, chopped: 

Beets Olives 

Chives Pimentos 

Egg yolk, hard-cooked Radishes 

Nuts Sweet green peppers 

If desired, roll the balls in chopped parsley or chives, or tint them a delicate 
green by means of spinach extract. 



166 



LESSONS IN COOKERY 



Ingredients: 

2t. 

dash 
spk. 

2t. 

Ht. 

Ht. 



Cheese Straws 

(es-30 straws) 
yi c. bread flotir 
H t. salt 

Dash of cayenne or white pepper 
H-^H c. soft bread crumbs, or enough for a roll dough 
J^ c. grated cheese (such as American) 
2tb. milk 

2 tb. egg, beaten very light 
2 1. butter, melted and cooled 



Method: 

1. Mix the dry ingredients. 

2. Add dry ingredients to the wet ingredients and mix well. 

3. Roll dough to J^*' thickness, and cut it in strips Ji*'X6*' by means of a 
cheese-straw cutter or a sharp knife. 

4. Place straws on lightly floured tins and bake them in a moderate oven 15— 
25 min., or until they are light brown. (Why not a hot oven?) 

5. Serve hot and crisp with salad or soup. 

Notes: 

1. This recipe furnishes a good means of using stale bread. 

2. Use 1 tb. extra flour for the board and rolling pin but use no more than this, else the 
straws will be heavy. The addition of extra bread crumbs does no harm. 

3. Cheese crackers are made by cutting the rolled dough in l''-2* squares. 

4. Richer straws are made as follows: 

a. Roll plain pastry or puff-paste dough to J^' thickness, then cut the sheet in 
halves. 

b. Sprinkle one half with a thick layer of grated cheese. 

c. Cover it with other half of dough, and press the two together with a rolling pin. 

d. Cut in strips with a dieese-straw cutter, and bake. 



CASBOHYDRATE-FOOD SALADS' 

A spring luncheon 

Cream of asparagus soup Cheese 

Bread and butter 
Fruit salad Marguerites 



FRUIT SALADS 

Recipe I 

Method: 

1. Place the lengthwise halves of a small peeled banana on a crisp leaf of 
head lettuce. 

2. Sprinkle the halves with a little lemon juice, and roll them in very finely 
ground nuts, such as Brazil, pecan, or pistachio. (Grape-nuts are a possible 
substitute for nuts.) 

3. Garnish with mayonnaise. 

Recipe II (Waldorf Salad) 

Method: 

1. Mix together the following ingredients: 

; ^- ^'^ *^ ^PP^« [ cut in slices or cubes 
1 0. raw celery ) 

2-3 tb. chopped nuts (such as pecans or English walnuts) 

Mayonnaise or cooked dressing 

2. Place the mixture on lettuce and garnish with extra dressing and chopped 
nuts. 

Recipe III 

Mdhodr 

1. Mix together the following: 

Small cubes or balls of raw apple or peach 
Slices of banana 
Sections of grapefruit 
Lemon juice 

2. Place the mixture on head lettuce or cress, add French dressing, and garnish 
with sliced almonds. 

1 Certain of the recipes given are composed of very light and juicy fruits. It is a question 
whether such salads might better be classed as appetizer salads. 

167 



168 LESSONS IN COOKERY 

R^pelV 

Method: 

1. Chill the following in separate bowls: 

Sections of orange (blood orange is especially pretty) 

Sections of grapefruit 

Small balls of muskmelon or watermelon (cut with a French vegetable-cutter) 

White or red California grapes (cut in halves and seeded) 

2. Mix the fruits, place the mixture on lettuce, and sprinkle with salt. 

3. Add French dressing, or mayonnaise mixed with cream. 

Recipe V 

Method: 

1. Prepare a mixture of almost any number of kinds of fresh fruits (sliced 
except in the case of berries), selected from the following list: 

Apples • Oranges 

Bananas Peaches 

Blackberries Pears 

Cherries Pineapple 

Grapefruit Raspbories (very desirable) 

Grapes, California Strawberries 

Kumquats Tangerines 

Loganberries Etc. 

2. Mix whipped cream and a little sugar with the fruit. 

3. Chill, and serve on lettuce. 

Noie: 

It is not necessary to add lemon juice or salad dressing to this salad, since the fruit 
itself is sufficiently add. 

Recipe VI 

Method: 

1. Slice the following fruits about 1 hr. before serving, mix well with the juice 
of 1 lemon, and chill: 

4 bananas 
2 oranges 

1 pineapple 
A few dates 

2. Beat the following together until mixture is very light: 

2 yolks of eggs 

5i c. powdered sugar 
Dash of salt 

3. Just before time for serving, drain the juice from the fruit, add it to the 
yolk mixture, and beat until dressing is foamy. 

4. Mix this dressing with the sliced fruit, and serve as cold as possible. 



DIET FOR ADULTS 169 

Recipe VII 

Method: 

1. Place any one of the following fruits in a bed of head lettuce : 

Circular slice of pineapple j 

Half a peach f , , , 

-- ,, . ^ > canned or fresh 

Half an apncot ( 

Half a pear (stuck full of almonds) | 

2. To 1 c. very thick mayonnaise or cooked dressing add the following: 

}4 c. nuts, chopped 

12 marshmallows, cut in small pieces 

1 c. whipped cream 

3. Add a little of the dressing to each piece of fruit, and garnish with paprika. 

4. On the side of plate place a small ball of cottage or cream cheese rolled in 
ground nuts, and fit around it a small ring cut from a slender, sweet green pepper. 

Notes: 

1. Use French dressing, if preferred. 

2. An additional garnish for the slice of pineapple is prepared as follows: 

a. Place sections of grapefruit across the fruit. 

b. Add fragments of blood orange, or peeled and seeded California grapes. 

Miscellaneous Combinations for Fruit Salads 

(Where not specified, lettuce and dressing are understood in each of these.) 

1. Half a grapefruit (seeds removed and sections loosened), a narrow strip (or ring) of sweet 
green pepper fitted just inside the rind 

2. A bright red apple (cored, but not pared, then filled with pearl onions and celery), head 
lettuce, mayonnaise 

3. White grapes, oranges, bananasj pineapple, nuts 

4. White grapes, oranges, cherries, celery, nuts 

5. White grapes, oranges, dates 

6. Pineapple, oranges, marshmallows, nuts 

7. Dates, prunes, bananas, nuts, lemon juice 

8. Peaches or pears, sour cherries^ pineapple 

9. White cherries, nuts 

General Notes on Fruit Salads 

7. Fruits: 

1. Almost any fresh raw fruit may be used for salad, with the possible exception of some 
of the berries. No set recipes can be given for salads, but it is almost impossible to make 
any combination of fruits that is not satisfactory. Cooked fruits are sometimes used, for 
example: 

Peaches, halved 
Apricots, h^ved 
Cherries 

12 



170 LESSONS IN COOKERY . 

2. General preparation of raw fruits is as follows: 

a. Cut fruit as desired, then place it on ice in its own juice. 

b. When it is very cold, drain it and add a dash of salt, also a very little sugar. 

c. Add dressing, and serve at once. 

Apples or other fruits that discolor in the air should be sprinkled with lemon juice in 
the very beginning. 

77. Dressings: 

1. A little sugar is sometimes used in dressings, also paprika; seasonings in general, 
such as mustard and onion juice, are not used. Lemon juice is preferable to vinegar in all 
dressings for fruit salads. Plain or whipped cream is often mixed with the dressings. 

2. The following six dressings, all but the first two of which are imcooked, are the chief 
ones us^ in fruit salads: 

a. Cooked dressing of the usual type 

b. Cooked dressing containing maple sirup or honey (see recipe, page 183) 

c. French dressing. This is often the most desirable dressing when a single 
fruit is served on lettuce or cress. Any one of- the following raw fruits is good 
thus served by itself with French dressing: 

Orange, tangerine, or kumquat (sliced) 
Grapefruit (by itself or with cherries) 
Banana, rolled in ground nuts 
Pineapple, grated 
Alligator pear 
Sour apple 

d. Mayonnaise 

e. Whipped cream mixed with little or no sugar (good with very acid fruit) 

/. Whipped cream mixed with various ingredients, for example, in the following 
proportions: 

Ji c. whipped cream 

2 yolks of eggs, beaten very light 

3 tb. lemon juice 

3 tb. powdered sugar 
Dash of salt 

777. Miscellaneous points: 

1. Many fruit salads have considerable energy value because they are so rich in sugar 
and fat. 

2. Sliced marshmallows are often a good addition to a fruit salad. 

3. Note the following suggestions as to sandwiches to be served with fruit salads: 

. White bread with English, or imsalted, butter 
White bread with salted butter 
Bread, white or brown, with jelly or preserves 
Brown-and-white-bread ribbon sandwifches 

White bread with flower petals, for example, rose, nasturtium, or violet 
Steamed brown bread or raisin bread with a filling made by whipping the following 
together: 

Nuts, chopped 

Cream cheese 

Cream, whipped 



DIET FOR ADULTS 171 

VEGETABLE AND STARCHY-NUT SALADS 

The following salads, as well as those salads for which recipes are given below, 
possess considerable energy value: 

Peppers (stuffed with peas, cucumbers, radishes, and mayonnaise or French 

dressing), lettuce 
Boiled beets (chopped, and mixed with mayonnaise or cooked dressing), lettuce 
String beans, carrots, beets, potatoes, peas, cooked or French .dressing, lettuce 
Equal parts of string beans and peas, lettuce, mayonnaise 



Ingredients: 

1 h. tb. 

It. 

Mt. 

It. 

dash 
dash 
Ueaf 
It. 



Potato Salad 



2 c. cooked potatoes, sliced or cut in J^*' cubes 

French dressing: 

5 tb. oil, melted btitter, or bacon fat 
3 tb. lemon juice or vinegar 

J^ onion, minced, or 3^1 1. juice 

}4 1. salt, or to taste 

14 t. paprika 

Lettuce 

Cooked salad dressing or mayonnaise 



Method: 

1. Marinate the potatoes; that is, mix them with the French dressing and let 
them stand J^-lH hr. Do not chill. (Why?) 

2. Drain off excess dressing, and chill. 

3. Add onion, salt, and pepper, and place potatoes in a mound on lettuce. 

4. Add cooked dressing or mayonnaise. Garnish. 

Notes: 

1. Any of the following potatoes may be used in making salad: 

Hot, freshly boiled potatoes 
Cold boiled potatoes 
Baked potatoes, hot or cold 
Pupil to test all. Which is the best? 

2. Note possible additions (chopped, cubed, or sliced) for use in the salad proper or as 
a garnish: 

Apples Nuts 

Carrots Olives (green, ripe, or pimento) 

Celery Parsley (sprigs or chopped) 

Cucumbers Pickled beets or other pickles 

Eggs, hard-cooked Pimentos 

Green peas Radishes ("roses" pretty as garnish) 

Ham or other meat Sweet green peppers 

The given recipe for salad is made into a fair meal in itself by the addition of meat, 
eggs, or other protein food. 



172 LESSONS IN COOKERY 

3. The following salad combinations are suggested: 

a. Potatoes, eggs, French dressing 

b. Potatoes, mayonnaise 

c. 1 c. potatoes, ^ c. green peas, J^ c. carrots, seasonings, dressing 

d. 1 large carrot 
1 large potato 
1 large beet 

3 eggs 

Ji c. capers 

J^ c. olives, sliced thin 

Mayonnaise 

Boil the first four ingredients, chill, and cut in ^^ cubes. Mix with the 

other ingredients, and serve on lettuce. 

4. A good salad results from the substitution of boiled celery root for the potatoes of 
potato salad. 

Sweet-Sour Potato Salad 

Method: 

1. Make a sweet-sour sauce by boiling the foUcwing ingredients together for a 
few seconds: 

5 tb. small cubes of bacon, saut^ed until brown 

3 tb. vinegar 

1-2 t. sugar, or to taste 

He t. paprika 

2. Add the following to the sauce: 

1}4 c. of ^4" cold potato cubes 
2 tb. minced onion 
1 tb. chopped pimento 

3. Mix well, drain, place on lettuce, garnish, and serve at once. 
Nolea: 

1. Pure bacon fat may be substituted for the cooked cubes of bacon. 

2. The sweet-sour sauce is similar to French dressing. 

Chestnut Salad 

Ingredients: 

1 c. raw-apple slices 

1 c. celery 

1 c. boiled French chestnuts, sliced 

Mayonnaise or French dressing, highly seasoned 

Lettuce 

Method: 

1. Mix the first four ingredients, chill, and serve on lettuce. 

2. Garnish with slices of red apple which has not been pared. 



DIET FOR ADULTS 173 

Notes: 

1. Prepare the chestnuts as follows: 

a. Shell, parboil, and skin chestnuts. 

b. Boil 12 min., or until chestnuts are soft, but not broken. 

c. Drain, cool, and cut them into thin slices. 

2. From the nutritive point of view nuts may be classified as follows: 

a. Nuts of high protein and fat content, such as: 

Almonds 
Brazil nuts 
Peanuts 
Pine nuts 

b. Nuts of low protein and fat content, but richer in carbohydrate, such as: 

Chestnuts 
Coconuts 
Lichi nuts 
Most nuts are members of class a. 

3. Are coconuts and lichi nuts suitable for use in salads? 



PROTEm-FOOD SALADS 

Luncheon 

Fish salad Creamed potatoes 

Baking-powder biscuit^ Radishes 

Floating Island 



Possible combinations and recipes for protein-food salads are as follows (salad 
dressing is understood in each of the fish salads listed) : 

FISH SALADS 

1. Fish, celery, green pepper, oHves, nuts (chop the last four foods) 

2. 2 c. fish. 1 c. celery or cucumber, 2 tb. grated onion 

3. 2 c. fish, 1 c. celery cut fine, J^ doz. soiir pickles 

4. Tomato cups filled with 2 c. fish, 1 c. chopped celery, pulp of 3 tomatoes 

5. Fish, white asparagus (placed on fish) 

Noies: 

1. In these five salads use either canned tuna or salmon or halibut or any other left-over 
cooked fish. Flake or shred the fish, then mix it and all the other ingredients with mayon- 
naise and serve on lettuce. (Drain oil from canned fish before shredding it.) 

2. Cooked fish only is used in salads; note the possibilities: 

Canned tuna or salmon (tuna is a good chicken substitute) 

Canned sardines (serve with cooked dressing) 

Cold, left-over cooked fish of almost any kind (such as white fish or halibut) 

Crabs, lobsters, oysters, scallops, or shrimps 

MEAT SALADS 

1. Equal quantities of chicken, cucumber, peas, and walnuts, mayonnaise 

2. Chicken, celery, head lettuce, mayonnaise 

3. IH c. chicken, IJ^ c. celery, 3^ c. nuts, Ji c. olives, cooked dressing 

4. Molded spinach, placed on a circle of cooked ham and garnished with slices of egg, 
French dressing 

5. 1 c. sweetbreads (parboiled), 1 c. peas or cuciunbers, mayonnaise or French dressing 

6. Sweetbreads, hard-cooked eggs, celery, mayonnaise 

Notes: 

1. Cooked meats only are used in salads; note the possibilities: 

White meats (prettier than dark meats for salads, but ndt essential): 

Breast meat of chicken or turkey 

Chicken substitute (such as roast veal or pork) 

Sweetbreads 
Calves' brains 
Almost any other kind of cold meat 

174 



DIET FOR ADULTS 175 

2. The following sandwiches are especially good to serve with meat salads: 

Cress Olive 

Endive Onion, Spanish 

Horse-radish Pimento 

Lettuce Bread and butter: 

Mint White bread 

Mustard Rye bread 

Nasturtium-seed Rye bread (pumpernickel) 

Various combinations are possible for use as sandwich fillings, for example: 

Nuts, pimento-olives, Spanish onions, cream cheese, and whipped cream 

Lemon-mayonnaise, pimentos, Spanish onions, and paprika 

CHEESE SALADS 

1. 1 c. American cheese cut in small cubes, 1 c. peas, cooked dressing 

2. Riced cream cheese, pecans, mayonnaise 

3. Cottage cheese, boiled chestnuts, cooked dressing 

4. Nuts, olives, cream cheese, mayonnaise 

5. Cottage cheese, cabbage, French dressing 

6. Triangular strips of sweet green pepper filled level full of cream cheese, head lettuce, 
cooked dressing, pimento as a center garnish 

7. Cottage or commercial cream cheese (made into small balls or formed into a roll and 
sliced), head lettuce, French dressing 

8. Bird's-nest salad: Head lettuce hearts with eggs of cream cheese buried within them, 
slices of pimento, French dressing 

USES OF CHEESE IN THE DIET; A SYNOPSIS 

1. Cheese served in larger quantities is valued more for nutriment than for 
flavor; that is, it is used as a meat substitute, or the chief dish of a meal. 

2. Cheese served in smaller quantities is valued more for flavor than for food 
value; it is used as an incidental part (appetizer, relish, or condiment) of the meal. 

Notes: 

1. Pupil to show that dishes such as the following, when made with cheese, often serve 
either as meat substitutes or as appetizers, according to conditions: 

•Balls and croquettes Salads 

Creamed dishes (vegetables, "rabbit," etc.) Sandwiches 

Custards , Souffles (fondues, etc.) 

Escalloped dishes (macaroni, etc.) Soups 

Pastry (such as straws) Etc. 

2. Cottage cheese and commercial cream cheeses are served in any of the following ways: 

a. Filling for sandwiches (These cheeses, especially buttermilk cottage cheese, 
are so smooth in textm-e that they can easily be spread on bread, either 
with or without butter.) 

b. As a main luncheon or supper dish (cheese used as a meat substitute) 

c. As a relish with other courses, such as the salad course 

d. Asa part of a salad 



176 LESSONS IN COOKERY 

NUT AND DRIED-LEGUME SALADS 

1. Nuts, canned or freshly cooked lima beans, celery, cooked dressing 

2. Nuts, peas, cooked or French dressing 

3. 1 c. blanched almonds cut lengthwise, 1 c. olives cut lengthwise, French dressing 

4. Peanuts, green peas, celery, cooked dressing 

5. A small can baked beans with tomato sauce, 1 small head of lettuce, 1 small onion, 
salt and paprika, French dressing 

Notes: 

1. Nuts, when purchased shelled, should be sterilized before being used. Pour boiling 
water over them, let them stand a minute, and drain them. (The washing of the nuts 
also adds to their appearance and removes any acrid taste.) 

2. Either roasted peanuts or raw peanuts, boiled until tender, may be used in salad. 

EGG SALADS 
Note three typical recipes for salads prepared from hard-cooked eggs: 

Recipe I 

Method: 

1. Cut a hard-cooked egg in halves lengthwise. 

2. Place one half in the center of a bed of head lettuce. 

3. Add French dressing and slices of pimento-olive. 

Recipe II 

Method: 

1. Arrange lettuce on a plate and on it make a nest of chopped whites of eggs. 

2. Place a whole yolk of egg in the center, then add salad dressing. 

Note: 

Two possible variations are as follows: 

a. Make a nest of yolk put through a ricer, and garnish with chopped white. 

b. Slice the white and mix with cuciunbers and celery. 

Recipe III (Daisy Salad) 
Method: 1- V J^ 

1. Imitate the petals of a daisy by any of the following agents : 

a. Several 2*^ pieces of celery split lengthwise two or three times 

b. Slices of white of egg prepared as follows: 

(1) Cut hard-cooked eggs in half lengthwise. 

(2) Remove yolks, and slice whites in long thin slices, 
c.^ Quarters of stuffed eggs prepared as follows: 

(1) Cut hard-cooked eggs in half lengthwise. 

(2) Remove yolks and season them well with butter, salt, and lemon 
juice; return yolks to whites. Cut each half of egg in half. 

2. Arrange in a circle on lettuce any kind of ** petals, ** imitating the petal for- 
mation of a daisy. 

3. Fill the center with hard-cooked yolk put through a ricer or a sieve. 

4. Add dressing, French, cooked, or mayonnaise, and garnish with parsley. 



COMFLETE-DISH SALADS 

Luncheon 

Chicken broth Wafers 

Rice and egg salad Olive sandwiches 

Stewed figs, stuffed with nuts 



Rice Salad 

Ingredients: 

1 c. cold boiled or steamed rice 
Salad dressing (mayonnaise, French, or cooked) 
1 c. protein food — one or any suitable combination of the following: 
Hard-cooked eggs 

Cooked meat cut in small cubes (such as chicken, ham, or roast pork) 
Fish, boned and shredded (such as cold-boiled cod, salmon, or tuna) 

Method: 

Mix all tlie ingredients, place them on lettuce, and garnish with "celery tips, 
etc. ; or pack in molds wet with cold water, chill, and turn out on lettuce. 

Noles: 

1. Potatoes, chestnuts, or other starchy food may be substituted for rice in this salad. 

2. (jood salads can be made of rice combined with left-over vegetables, such as celery. 

Stuffed-Tomato Salad 

Method: 

1. Scald a meditma-sized tomato for a few seconds in boiling water, plunge it 
into cold water, then peel and chill it. 

2. Form a cup by cutting a thin slice from the stem end and then scooping out 
all the pulp. 

3. Fill cup with a chilled and well-salted mixture composed of the following: 

Nuts or meat chopped (chicken or sweetbreads are very good) 
Rice, cooked 
♦ Choice of the following: ^ 

Celery cut in K" dice 

Cucimibers, sliced 

Cabbage, chopped 

Peas, green 
Dressing, cooked or mayonnaise 
Etc. 

4. Place on head lettuce and garnish with cooked or mayonnaise dressing. 

177 



178 LESSONS IN COOKERY 

Asparagus Salad 

iRecipel) 

Method: 

1. Form a cup by scooping out the center from a tomato. 

2. Place it on head lettuce, and stand in the cup three or four 3*^ pieces of white 
asparagus, tip ends. 

3. Place more asparagus on plate. 

4. Add French dressing and bits of sweet green pepper. 

Ncie: 

Serve cheese molds with this recipe and with each of the following salads. 

Asparagus Salad 

{Recipe 11) 
Method: 

1. Cut rings Ji'-J^' wide from any one of the following meditun-sized vege- 
tables: 

Pimento 

Ripe tomato 

Sweet pepper (green or red) 

2. Slip through each ring three or four stalks of white asparagus. 

3. Place a ring on each plate of head lettuce. 

4. Add French dressing. 

Asparagus Salad 

(Recipe III) 
Method: 

1. Place three or four stalks of canned asparagus on a plate of head lettuce or 
endive. 

2. Garnish with strips of sweet red pepper or pimento. 

3. Add French dressing containing a little chopped green and red pepper. 

Cheese Molds 



Jngredients: 




Ht. 


^ tb. granulated gelatin 


Ht. 


2 tb. cold water 


It. 


2 tb. boiling water 


It. 


2 caream cheeses (such as NeufchStel or Blue Label) 


It. 


}4 c. American cheese, grated 


Itb. 


1 c. cream, measured after being whipped stiff 


dash 


H t. salt 


spk. 


Paprika 


Jit. . 


2 tb. chopped pimentos or red and green pepper 



DIET FOR ADULTS 179 

Method: 

1. Soak the gelatin 3-5 min. in cold water, then dissolve it in boiling water. 

2. Cream both kinds of cheese with a little of the cream. 

3. Add the dissolved gelatin to the cheese. 

4. Add all the other ingredients, folding in the remainder of cream the last thing. 
6. Mold in small cups, chill, and turn one out upon side of each plate of salad. 

Miscellaneous Combinations for Complete-Dish Salads 

1. Cooked beets (hollowed out and stuffed with chicken, onion, celery, and cooked dressing), 
lettuce 

2. Lettuce, equal parts of celery and nuts (such as almonds, pecans, walnuts, etc.), French 
dressing 

3. Prunes stuffed with cream cheese, pimentos (as gartiish), French dressing or mayonnaise 

4. Boiled noodles or other flour paste, boiled eggs or roast chicken, lettuce, mayonnaise 



COOKED SALAD DRESSINGS 

GENERAL OUTLINE 

J. Types of dressings: 

1. Thickened by egg only 

2. Thickened by both starch and egg. Note the following points 

a. Most cooked dressings are of this type. 

b. It is a less expensive type than No. 1. 

c. The ratio of the starch to the egg may be varied at will; use 1 tb. 
flour in place joi each yolk that is omitted. The less egg used, 
the cheaper the dressing, but too much starch should be avoided, 
else the flavor of dressing will be injiired. 

d. Either of the following forms of starch may be used: 

Flour (wheat, rice, etc.) 

Cornstarch 
In salad dressings (as well as in cooking in general) 1 whole egg may always be 
substituted for 2 yolks, since they are of equal thickening value. Yolks alone 
produce a much smoother dressing than whole egg. (Why ?) The yolks of eggs 
should not be beaten, else part of their thickening value will be destroyed. 

//. Liquids used in dressings: 

1. Non-acid liquids (used singly or in combination) : 

Water Cream, sweet 

Milk, fresh (whole or skim) Stock, meat 

Milk, condensed or evaporated Stock, vegetable 

2. Acid liquids (used singly or in combination) : 

Vinegar (see list of varieties. Note 1, page 164) 

Lemon juice (for other possible fruit acids, see Note 1, page 164) 

Sour cream 

Whey 
Salad dressings made with. water are just as satisfactory as those made with 
milk, and less expensive. If a less acid dressing is desired, reduce the quantity of 
vinegar and make up the deficiency in liquid with water. In nearly all, if not all; 
cooked dressings, lemon juice may be substituted for part or all of the vinegar. 
Various kinds of vinegar and acid fruit juice may be used. 

///. Fats used in dressings: 

Butter Com oil 

Oleomargarine Cottonseed oil (such as Wesson oil) 

Nut margarine Olive or peanut oil 

Chicken or turkey fat Salmon oil (good in sahnon salad) 

180 



DIET FOR ADULTS 181 

IV. Seasonings used in dressings: 

1. Powdered seasonings; see list, page 164. Sugar (or honey or maple 
sirup) is often used in dressings for fruit salads. 

2. Vegetables, pickles, and miscellaneous additions; see lists, page 164. 
Whipped cream or beaten white of egg is often added. 

Notes: 

1. The following dressings are derived, as a rule, from mayonnaise, but they may also 
be derived from cooked dressing: 

Russian dressing 
Thousand-island dressing 
Sauce tartare 
Pupil to determine which of the following seasonings are added to either mayonnaise 
or cooked dressing in making each of the foregoing derivatives: 
Chili sauce 
Worcestershire sauce 
Chopped ingredients: 

Capers Parsley 

Chives Peppers, green 

Olives Pickles 

Onions Pimentos 

2. Cooked dressings are derivatives of soft custard, made by the addition of acid to 
soft custard. 

3. Cooked dressings, as a rule, have the following advantages over mayonnaise and 
French dressing: 

They are less expensive. 

They may be bottled and kept for a longer time. 

STANDARD METHOD FOR COOKED DRESSINGS THICKENED 
BY BOTH STARCH AND EGG 

1. Make a soft custard in a double boiler, using Qgg, milk or water, and sugar. 

2. Using direct heat, make a sauce from the remaining ingredients — fat, flour, 
seasonings, and vinegar; sometimes the liquid will include stock, water, etc. Cook 
the sauce as follows: 

a. Add the dry ingredients to melted butter or other liquid fat. 

b. Add vinegar and cook until mixture is as thick as very heavy cream. 
For other possible methods for the sauce, see Food Economy, pages 70-71. 

3. Combine the custard and the sauce, following the general rule for all cook- 
ing, that is, the addition of the thinner to the thicker mixture. 

4. Beat well, strain if necessary, and cool. 
Note: 

The following are reasons for the preference of the foregoing method to the various 
other possible methods for cooked dressing: 

Starch and egg are cooked separately. 

Milk is cooked with other ingredients before acid is added to it, and so does not 
curdle. 



182 



LESSONS IN COOKERY 



COOKED DRESSINGS 
Recipe I 



Ingredients: 

Ht. 

Met. 

J^ t. yolk 

Itb. 

It.' 



14 c. bread flour 

J^ c. sugar 

2 t. salt 

IJ^ t. dry mustard 

5 yolks of eggs 

2 c. cold water 

Ji c. strong vinegar 



Method: 

Prepare the dressing by either the standard method or the following method: 

a. Mix the four dry ingredients with the yolks of eggs. 

b. Slowly add the water and vinegar, and stir to make a smooth mixture. 

c. Stir the mixture in a double boiler until it is almost as thick as a drop 
batter. 



Noies: 
1. 
2. 
3. 

and to add sugar to taste. 



The large recipe yields 2Ji c. dressing; the class recipe yields 1^ tb. dressing. 
The recipe will keep a month if packed in a glass jar and kept in a refrigerator. 
Before serving the dressing, it is well to thin it with milk or cream (whipped or not) 



Recipe II 



Ingredients: 

Ht. 

Ht. 

Vst. 

Ket. 

spk. 

spk. 

Itb. 
i^t. 



1 tb. flour 

1 J^ tb. sugar 

14 tb. salt 

% t. mustard 

Dash of cayenne or paprika 

Dash curry 

2 yolks of eggs, slightly beaten 
H c. milk 

IJ^ tb. butter, melted and cooled 

3 tb. strong vinegar 



Method: 

Prepare the dressing by either the standard method or the following method : 

a. Mix the first six (dry) ingredients. 

b. Mix the yolks of eggs, milk, and butter. 

c. Add a little of the wet ingredients to the dry ingredients, mix to 
a smooth paste, then add reniainder of wet ingredients and stir well. 

d. Slowly add the vinegar. 

e. Stir the mixture in a double boiler until it is as thick as very heavy 
cream, then strain, and cool. 



DIET FOR ADULTS 



183 



ATofes; 

1, The large recipe yields % c. dressing; the class recipe yields 1 tb. dressing. 

2. Add whipped cream before serving, if desired. 

Recipe III 



Ingredients: 




Itb. 


H c. bread flour 


Itb. 


H c. sugar 


dash 


% t. salt 


Itb. 


% c. water 


2tb. 


H c. vinegar 


It. 


H c. lemon juice 


It. 


3 yolks of eggs, beaten very light 


Itb. 


3 whites of eggs, beaten stiff 



Method: 

1. Mix dry ingredients. 

2. Gradually add water, vinegar, and lemon juice, and stir the mixture in a 
double boilei- to make a thick sauce almost as stiff as biscuit dough. 

3. Fold the beaten yolks into the beaten whites. 

4. Beating the eggs constantly, gradually whip the cooked mixture into the 
eggs. 

Notes: 

1. The large recipe yields 2J4 c. dressing; the class recipe yields 4>i tb. dressing. 
Substitute vinegar for the lemon juice in the class recipe, if desired. 

2. This is a unique recipe; mix it by the foregoing method, not by the standard method. 

3. The recipe is delicious and inexpensive, and is so much like mayonnaise that it is 
called mock mayonnaise. If desired, beat olive oil into the dressing just before it is 
served. 



Ingredients: 

Hi. 
dash 

It. 

It. 

M-lt. 

2t. 



Recipe IV 

(Especially for fruit salads) 

4 yolks of eggs, beaten slightly 

It. salt 

Paprika 

2 tb. butter or a substitute ' 

2 tb. strained honey 

2 tb. lemon juice (or vinegar) 

1 c. whipped cream (measured after whipping) 



Method: 

1. Mix all the ingredients except the cream and stir them in a double boiler 
until mixture is creamy. 

2. Chill mixture. Fold in the cream just before serving. 



184 LESSONS IN COOKERY 

Noiea: 

1. Granulated sugar or maple sirup or sugar may be substituted for honey. 

2. The following is a similar recipe: 

a. Mix together the following ingredients: 

2 yolks of eggs, beaten slightly 

Jit. salt 

Paprika 

1 tb. flour 

1 tb. sugar 

b. Add J^ c. maple sirup or strained honey and the juice of 1 J^ lemons. 

c. Cook mixture 6-8 min. over a low flame, or 15 min. in a double boiler, then 
cool and fold in 1 c. whipped cream. 



DESSERTS 

POPOVERS (STUFFED) AND CREAM PUFFS 

The sudden expansion of water into steam is the chief leavening agent in the baking 
of all hollow flour mixtures, such as popovers, Yorkshire pudding, and cream puffs. Air 
expansion may be more or less of a consideration in the leavening of such mixtvires. 
(Study synopsis of viscous substances, pages 203-205.) 

Yorkshire pudding is a plain derivative of popovers, and cream puffs are a fancy 
derivative of popovers. Pupil to compare recipes for these three flovir mixtures (see any 
standard cookbook for York^re pudding). 







Popovers 


Ingredients: 




(4-^ popovers) 


2tb. 


1 c. bread flour 




€\i\^ 


Kt. salt 




2tb. 


1 c. milk 




2t. 


legg 





J^ t. It. butter or a substitute, melted (see Note 1) 

Method: 

1. Sift the flipur and salt together once. 

2. Add the milk to the unbeaten egg, 

3. Gradually add the wet ingredients to the dry ingredients. Mix very gradu- 
ally, else lumps will form; if lumps do form, use a Dover beater for a short time. 
Employ no more beating than with muffins; that is, beat just long enough to make 
a smooth thin batter; it is not' necessary to beat 3-5 min. with a Dover beater. 
(See Note 2.) 

4. Add melted fat. 

6. Heat glazed popover cups in the oven, then grease them, and fill them two- 
thirds full of batter. (See Note 5.) 

6. Bake batter as follows, allowing 45 min. as the average total time required: 

a. Place cups in a very hot oven (480° F., or 250° C.) until batter has 

risen (or popped) very high, 
fc. Reduce heat to a moderate temperattire (356° F., or 180° C.) for the 
remainder of the time. 
At the end of 45 min., or when the popovers are apparently baked, set the oven 
door ajar and allow the popovers to remain in the oven until they are very brown 
and shiny on the bottom and crisp throughout. Popovers that are soft or raw 
inside are not good. 

7. Serve at once. Why? (See Note 6.) 

13 185 



186 



LESSONS IN COOKERY 



Notes: 

1. Fat adds to the crispness of popovers, but keeps them from rising so high. If the 
cups are especially well greased, it is not necessary to add any fat to the batter. 

Experiment: Prepare three batches of the foregoing large recipe, using t. fat, 1 1. fat, 
and 3 t. fat respectively in the three batches. Bake, and note comparative height of the 
popovers. 

2. Many cooks in former times beat popover batter 3-5 min., but it has been proved 
that it is a waste of time and energy to beat the batter, since beaten and unbeaten batter 
give practically the same amount of expansion in the same oven heat. 

3. It has also been proved that it is not necessary to hurry the batter into the oven at 
once; it may stand several hours — even all day or all night. 

4. Avoid cooling or jarring the oven while the popovers are baking; do not open oven 
door often. (Why?) 

5. The regular brown or white earthen popover, or custard, cups with the rounded bot- 
toms are better than tin baking dishes. 

6. Popovers are good served in any of the following, ways: 

a. As breakfast bread 

h. As the main coiu^se of a Itmcheon or supper. Stuff a popover with creamed 

chicken or other protein food (see Food Economy, page 64). 
c. As luncheon or dinner desserts (especially useful in children's diet) : 
a. Popover served with a pudding sauce 

h, Popover split in halves, one half filled with any of the following, then 
the other half added as a cover: 

Fresh fruit crushed with sugar (such as strawberries) 
Canned or stewed fruit (peaches, cranberries, etc.) 
Jelly, jam, or marmalade 
Whip (see pages 195, 198, and 200) 
Etc. 
A pretty effect results if the popover is filled through a small hole 
in the top; do not close the hole, but allow a little of the filling to 
be seen as a garnish. 

< 

Cream Puffs 



Ingredients: 


{8 pujffs) 


2t. 


4 tb. butter (or a substitute, such as butterine or Crisco) 


3tb. 


1 c. hot or cold water 


Hi. 


1 1. sugar 


dash 


Ji t. salt 


3Htb. 


IJi c. pastry flour 


2 tb. sUghtly 


3 eggs, imbeaten 


beaten 





Method: 

1. Cook the first four ingredients together until boiling begins. 

2. Add the flour all at once and quickly stir over the fire until a smooth and 



DIET FOR ADULTS 187 

rather stiff ball is formed which does not- stick to the spoon or the saucepan; do 
not cook beyond this point, else the ball will become oily and the puffs be unsuc- 
cessful. It is well to use a wooden spoon for stirring purposes. 

Caution: Do not add the flour until the liquid is really boiling, that is, full of 
large bubbles. 

3. Remove the mixture from the fire, and while it is still hot add the unbeaten 
eggs, one at a time; use a heavy fork, and beat in each egg very thoroughly before 
adding the next one. 

4. Beat the paste hard 3-4 min. with a heavy fork until all of the following 
tests hold true: 

a. Numerous stiff projections stand up of themselves from the paste. 
6. Paste may be cut with a knife in clean-cut sections. 
c. Paste is glossy in appearance like mayonnaise. 
6. Drop in semi-rough 2" balls (l]/^'' apart) from a pastry bag or spoon upon 
greased tins or baking sheets. 

6. Bake batter as follows, allowing 25-30 min. for the total process, and using 
the same temperature rules as for popovers: 

a. Place batter in a very hot oven (480° F., or 250° C.) for about 15-20 

min., or until puffs have risen very high, 
fc. Reduce heat to a moderate temperature (356° F., or 180° C.) for the 
remainder of time, that is, until puffs are very firm and light brown. 
When they are done, set the oven door ajar and allow puffs to remain in the 
oven for a short time. (Why is gradual cooling essential?) 

7. Just before serving and when they are cold, cut the puffs in halves and fill 
them with one of the following, or fill through a small hole, using a tin or paper 
funnel: 

Soft custard, made with a little cornstarch (see page 188) 

Cream-pie filling (any type) 

Whipped cream, sweetened and flavored with extract 

White-of-egg whip (see page 195) 

White-of -egg and gelatin whip (see page 198) 

Creain whip (see page 200) 

Marmalade or stewed fruit 

Etc. 

The whipped cream extends farther if one of the following is added: 
White of egg, beaten stiflE 
Dissolved gelatin, beaten until frothy 

8. Sprinkle with powdered sugar, and serve. 

NoUa: 

1. The class recipe may be baked as one large puff, or as two to four little puffs. 

2. Satisfactory puffs can be made by the substitution of rice flour for all the pastry flour 
in the recipe. 

3. Another satisfactory way to bake cream puffs and popovers is to place them in a cold 
or slightly warm oven at first, then gradually increase the temperature. 



188. 



LESSONS IN COOKERY 





Soft-Custard Filling for Cream Pu 


Ingredients: 


{8 puffs) 


2tb. 


1 c. sugar 


dash 


J^t. salt 


J^tb. 


4 tb. cornstarch 


Itb. 


2 eggs, slightly beaten 


4tb. 


2 c. milk, scalded 


4d. 


1 1. vanilla 



Method: 

1. Mix the dry ingredients, add them to the hot milk, stir the mixture in a 
double boiler imtil it is as thick as heavy, cream, then cover and cook 5 min. longer. 

2. Add this mixture to the eggs, and stir it in the double boiler 1-3 min. longer, 
or until it is almost as thick as thick batter. 

3. Cool, and flavor. 

Notes: 

1. This method is similar to that for cornstarch mold, a pudding. 

2. Do not fill the cream puffs until the filling is almost cold. 



SPONGE AND ANGEL CAKES 

Introductory Notes 

1. Sponge and angel cakes are very light products, but are not hollow. In making 
both these cakes aim to secure air; to retain air; to expand air and any carbon dioxide; to 
change water into steam, then expand the steam. Is it true that eggs are often the 
chief source of water {steam) in sponge and angel cakes? (Study synopsis of viscous sub- 
stances, pages 203-205.) 

2. The two following types of recipes are given for both sponge and angel cakes: 

fl. More expensive, or old-time, cakes, characterized by: 
Many eggs 
No baking powder 
b. Economical, or mock, cakes (especially useful in the winter when eggs are 
expensive), characterized by: 
Few eggs 
Baking powder 
The liquid in the cakes varies as follows: 

CAKBS LIQUID 

Sponge Eggs (whole) 

Mock sponge Eggs (whole) and water 

Angel Eggs (whites) 

Mock angel Eggs (whites) and milk 

3. See table, page 8, for degrees of temperature for baking sponge and angel cakes. 
Not all cooks agree as to these temperatures; one cook recommends the following: 

Spongecake 347-383 175-195 

Angel food 347-401 175-205 

Theoretically, at least, angel cake allows of a higher temperature than sponge cake, 
since whites of eggs stiffen at a higher temperature than the yolks. 

The three following methods are possible for baking sponge and angel cakes, but the 
first is probably the safest for the inexperienced cook: 
Steady heat (even) 

Rising temperature (gradually increasing) 
Falling temperature (gradually decreasing) * 

4. The quality of sponge and angel cakes varies largely according to the freshness of the 
eggs and the quantity and kind of flour used. Bakers sometimes add cornstarch to angel 
cake to make it tender. Explain. 

5. In sifting the dry ingredients for sponge and angel cakes, hold the sifter high so as 
to inclose plenty of air. 

6. Discuss probable reasons for the use of acid, that is, lemon juice and cream of tartar, 
in sponge and angel cakes respectively. (One cook asserts that cream of tartar whitens 
angel cake and keeps it tender and moist. Is there any truth in another's assertion that 
lemon jtdce or other add hardens the "egg walls" just enough to keep the cakes from 
falling?) 

189 



190 LESSONS IN COOKERY 

7. All cooks agree that tins for angel and sponge cakes should not be greased. 

8. If no frosting is spread on sponge or angel cakes, it is well to sprinkle them with a 
little powdered sugar. 

Sponge Cake^ 

(No water used) 



Ingredients: 


( 


Hyoik 


5 yolks of eggs 


2tb. 


1 c. sugar 


Ht. 


1 tb. lemon juice 


dash 


14 lemon rind, grated 


J^ white 


5 whites of eggs 


2tb. 


1 c. pastry flour 


dash 


Jit. salt 



Method: 

1. Beat the yolks with a Dover beater tintil they are light yellow and thick. 

2. Adding the sugar in small portions, beat the sugar and yolks together 
thoroughly with a Dover beater until the grains of sugar disappear. 

3. Add the following ingredients in the order named, then, by means of a 
spatula, fold in all at the same time (since the ingredients are folded in at one 
time, very little air is lost) : 

Lemon juice and rind 
Whites beaten stiff and dry 
Flour and salt sifted together four or five times 
Fold just until the ingredients are well blended, and do not fear too little 
folding. Do not mix or stir. 

4. Place batter in ungreased tins and bake in a steady, moderate oven, 347**- 
383^ F., or 175°-195° C. 

6. Remove cake from oven and invert tin for a few minutes. 

Notts: 

1. The following method, similar to the above, is much used for sponge cake: 

a. Add sugar, salt, lemon juice, and rind to the yolks beaten tmtil thick and 
lemon-colored, then beat the mixture thoroughly. 

b. Fold in the flour previously sifted four or five times. 

c. Fold in the whites beaten until stiff, then bake. 

2. Except for the addition of sugar and flour, either method for sponge cake is somewhat 
similar to that for foamy omelet. 

3. Angel food differs from this sponge cake in that whites of eggs only are used; hence 
it is often called white sponge cake. 

4. Derivatives of sponge cake include the following: 

Jelly roll 
Lady fingers 
Sunshine cake 
Sponge cake is often baked in gem pans. 

iPor honey sponge cake, see "Honey and Its Uses in the Home," Farmers* Bulletin 663, 
U.S. Dept. of Agri. 



DIET FOR ADULTS 



191 



5. Bake the class recipe in a muffin tin or in a 5*'x2J^"' bread tin. 

6. White of egg is beaten stiff and dry when it begins to spatter in tiny flakes. 

7. The following wheatless sponge cakes^ are satisfactory: 

Made with 100 per cent of any of the following flours: 

Barley Potato (an especially delicate cake results) 

Com Rice 

Made with 50 per cent cornstarch and 50 per cent potato flour. 
Made with 50 per cent oat flour and 50 per cent com flour. 
Sponge cake is also good made with 100 per cent matzoh flour or meal.^ 
See the rules, Food Economy , pages 165-170, for the substitution of barley, etc., for wheat. 



Ingredients: 

Myoik 

2tb. 

Ht. 

It. 

J^ white 

2tb. 

Method: 



Mock Sponge Cake 

{Recipe I — Cold water used) 

4 yolks of eggs, beaten until thick and creamy 

1 c. sugar 

2 tb. lemon juice 
1 tb. cold water 

4 whites of eggs, beaten stiff 
1 c. pastry flour 
1 1. baking powder 



1. Add the lemon juice and water to the yolks of eggs. 

2. Add the sugar and beat well. 

3. Fold in the whites of eggs. 

4. Add flour thoroughly sifted with the baking powder. 

6. Bake batter in a steady, slow oven in either of the following wajrs: 

Bake 25 min. in a shallow pan, O^Xll". 

Bake 40 min. in a loaf tin (half fill the tin with batter). 
Bake the class recipe in an ungreased bread pan, 5"X2J^". 



Ingredients: 

2tb. 

4d. 

Itb. 

2tb. 

Mt. 

dash 



Mock Sponge Cake 

{Recipe II — Boiling water used) 

2 eggs, beaten very light (do not separate the yolks and whites) 

1 c. sugar 

J^ t. vanilla 

J^ c. boiling water 

1 c. bread flour 

IJi t. baking powder 

He t. salt 



iPor further suggestions, see Journal of Home Economics, April, 1918, page 185; August, 
1918, page 350. 

2 Matzoh flour or meal is made by grinding matzos, a form of unleavened crackers eaten by 
Hebrews during the Passover season. 



192 LESSONS IN COOKERY 

MeihoJ: 

1. Add sugar to the eggs and mix well. 

2. Sift the remaining dry ingredients, and add them gradually; beat only long 
enough to blend the mixture well. 

3. Stir in the flavoring. 

4. Add the water. (A thin batter results.) 

6. Pour batter into well-greased and floured gem pans, or into a shallow pan, 
and bake in a moderate oven. 

Note: 

This recipe, because of its velvety texture, is also good baked in a sheet and rolled as a 
jelly roll. The class recipe, baked in a bread tin 5"' X2H"', results in an excellent small roll. 

Angel Cake 

Ingredients: 

1 white H c. whites of eggs, unbeaten (about 8 small whites) 
Jie t. H t. cream of tartar 

2 tb. 1 c. fine granulated sugar, sifted once 
6 d. Ji t. extract (vanilla or almond) 

1 J^ tb. % c. pastry flour, measured after one sifting 

dash }4 t. salt 

Method: 

1. Sift flour and salt together four times. 

2. Whip the whites to a foam with a Dover beater, then add cream of tartar 
and beat with a Dover beater until whites are very stiff and dry; that is, beat 1-2 
min. after a 2" finger-like projection stands up on the beater when the latter is 
held upright. 

3. Using a light wire egg-beater, very lightly and gradually fold the sugar into 
the whites; do not beat or stir. 

4. Using the same wire, egg-beater, very lightly fold in at the one time the 
extract, flour, and salt. 

6. Half fill an ungreased tube tin, and bake cake 40-50 min. in a very slow and 
steady oven; do not open the oven door until the cake is done. 

6. After removing the cake from the oven, invert tin so as to keep cake from 
shrinking too much or becoming heavy. Cool cake, but avoid a draft. 

7. When cake is cold, loosen the cake around the edge by means of a knife, 
then hit the pan on the table just hard enough to make the cake fall out. 

8. Brush off the brown crumbs, and ice. 

Noiea: 

1. Angel-cake recipes in general are very flexible in respect to: 

a. Proportions of whites of eggs, sugar, and flour (Pupil to secure from 
standard cookbooks recipes each of which contains 1 c. whites [8 very large 
or 10-11 medium whites].) 

b. Method (including temperature, etc.; see Note 3, page 189) 



DIET FOR ADULTS 



193 



2. Note the following suggestions as to the class recipe: 

a. If pastry flour is hot available, manufacture 1}^ tb. of it by mixing the follow- 
ing ingredients: 

1 tb.+J^ t. bread flour 
1 1. cornstarch 
h. Bake the cake in a heavy tin (such as a bread tin 5"'X2J^*' or a 6' circular 

tin) or in two mufiin tins. * 
c. If the angel (or sponge cake) tins used in class are hard to wash, boil them clean 
in a solution of soap powder or sal soda. 



Mock Angel-Cake 

1 c. pastry flour 
1 c. fine grantdated sugar 
3}^ t. baking powder 
3^ t. salt 

1 c. scalding hot milk (not boiling) 
1 1. lemon extract 

2 whites of eggs, beaten stiff 



IngreditnU: 

2tb. 
2tb. 
Ht. 
dash 
2tb. 
6d. 

2 tb. beaten 
whites 

Method: 

1. Sift the four dry ingredients together six times. 

2. Gradually add the dry ingredients to the hot milk and stir to make a smooth 
batter. (Do not have pan of hot milk over the fire.) 

3. Add extract, then fold in the whites of eggs. 

4. Pour batter into an ungreased tube tin and bake about 40 min. in a mod- 
erate oven; beware of jarring the oven. 

6. Invert tin, let it stand 1 min., then turn cake out. 

Notes: 

1. This recipe is similar in texture to the angel cake containing no baking powder. 

2. Work quickly, since the hot milk releases carbon dioxide; place the cake in oven as 
soon as it is mixed. 

3. Note the following suggestions as to the class recipe: 

a. If pastry flour is not available, manufacture 2 tb. of it by mixing 1 t. corn- 
starch with 5 t. bread flour. 

b. Beware of scorching little cakes; use a medium oven for the full period of 
baking. ^ 

c. Bake the class recipe in one or two muffin tins; if they are new, do not grease 
them; if they are old, grease and flour them. 



13 



WHIPS 

Whips (one type of sweet souffle), with possible exceptions, are especially use- 
ful in the diet of children and invalids. Whips containing fruit are an excellent 
means of giving necessary fruit (juice, pulp, or solid fruit) to children and adults. 
The four following whips, all of which are served as desserts, are named accord- 
ing to the chief viscous, or sticky, substance present (see page 203 for a sjmopsis 
of viscous substances) : 

Whole-egg whip (steamed or baked) 
White-of -egg whip (raw, baked, or steamed) 
White-of -egg and gelatin whip (raw) 
Cream whip (raw) 
Recipes for the four whips are as follows (pupils to bring from home left-over 
fruit pulp or juice, jelly, etc., for use in all but the first recipe) : 

Plain Whole-Egg Whip 

Ingredients: 

1 1. sugar 
1 1. lemon juice 

1 yolk of egg, beaten very light 
1 white of egg, beaten stiff 
Method: 

1. Mix the sugar and acid well with the yolk of egg. 

2. Fold in the white very thoroughly. 

3. Place mixture in a small bowl or an egg cup. 

4. Set the dish in a saucepan of boiling water, cover saucepan, remove it from 
the fire at once, and let it stand 5 min. 

6. Remove dish of egg and serve at once. 

Date or Fig Whole-Egg Whip 



Ingrtdierda: 


{J!r-6 servings) 


J^tb. 


J^ c. sugar 


Ket. 


J^ t. baking powder 


Vit. 


l)/i tb. flour 


dash 


He t. salt 


2 dates 


J^ c. dates or figs 


2 meats 


J^ c. English walnut meats 


3d. 


3^ t. vanilla 


It. 


1 yolk of eggj beaten very light 


2t. 


1 white of egg, beaten stiff 




194 



DIET FOR ADULTS 196 

Mtthoi: 

1. Mix the first four (dry) ingredients. 

2. Grind the fruits and nuts as fine as granulated sugar, then, using the hands, 
blend them well with the dry ingredients. (If preferred, keep the fruit and nuts in 
larger pieces.) 

3. Stir in the vanilla and yolk of e^. 

4. Fold in the white of egg. 

6. Half fill a heavy buttered baking dish, and bake mixture in a very slow oven 
30-40 min., or until it is double in bulk, firm, and shrinks from sides of pan. 
6. Serve hot or cold, with cream, as a dessert. 

Noi€a: 

1. This dessert is of high caloric value. It is a derivative of the preceding recipe. 

2. A muffin tin is good as a mold for the class recipe. It is well, as a safeguard during 
the baking process, to place a basin of water beneath the tin. 



Ingredients: 

Ji white 
Itb. 
It. 
Mt. 

spk. 



White-of-Egg Whip 

1 white of egg, chilled and unbeaten (see Note 2) 

4 tb. chilled fiiiit pulp (avoid juice; see outline on' fruit pulp, page 197) 

Granulated sugar to taste (about 2 tb.) 

Lemon juice to taste (about 1 1.) 

Dash of salt 



Mdhod: 

1. Mix all the ingredients in a bowl, and beat 3-10 min. with a Dover beater 
until the mixture is so stiff that it stands up with finger-like projections; the more 
beating, the more delicate the color. 

2. Proceed in accordance with one of the three following methods: 

a. Heap the raw whip in a large glass dish or in individual glasses or 

sherbet cups, and chill. 
6. Half fill a buttered baking dish, and bake mixture in a slow oven 

20-40 min., or until it is double in bulk, firm, and slightly brown. The 

whip is done if it rebounds when touched lightly with the finger tip. 

Avoid a high temperature. (Why?) (Bake the class recipe in one 

muffin tin.) 
c. Steam the mixture until it is light and firm. 

3. Serve a raw or cooked whip by itself, or with the addition of one of the 
following: 

Fresh fruit, sliced 

Fruit jtiice 

Fruit sauce 

Sugar and plain or whipped cream 

Soft custard 



196 LESSONS IN COOKERY 

Serve the baked whip as soon as it is done, that is, when it is hot and twice 
its original bulk, or serve it ice-cold. (The cold whip is delicious, and not tough, 
even though contracted to its original bulk.) 

Notes: 

1. On an average, 1}^ c. raw whip — 3 or 4 servings — result from the recipe. 
. 2. Some cooks prefer to beat the white stiff before mixing it with the other ingredients, 
but doubtless this method results in a certain waste of time. Pupil to test the two methods, 
then compare as to size of yield, stiffness, etc. 

3. The recipe is one of the most flexible of all recipes, allowing of considerable variation 
according to taste; for example: 

Use 2 tb.-l c. fruit pulp. 
Use 0-}4 c. sugar. 
Add coloring pastes. 
Fold in chopped nuts. 

Beat in whipped cream (cream being especially desirable when much fruit juice 
is used). 
The following recipe for strawberry whip, which yields IJ^ c. raw whip, is an example 
of the use of a very large quantity of pulp and sugar: 

1 tb. 4 tb. beaten white of egg {H-H white) 

1 tb. -4 tb. crushed raw strawberries 

3J^ t. 4-5 tb. granulated sugar 

J^ t. 'It. lemon juice 

4. Occasionally hot apple or other fruit pulp is added to the white of egg (beaten) in 
making white-of-egg whip. 

5. If the pulp of prunes (stewed) or any other dried fruit is used, it is well to make the 
pulp, sugar, salt, and lemon juice into a marmalade before blending them with the whites; 
make marmalade as follows: 

fl. Mix the pulp, sugar, and salt with a small quantity of fruit jtdce or water. 

b. Stirring constantly, simmer mixture 3-5 min., or until it is as thick as a drop 
batter; use the jelly tests. 

c. Cool, and add the lemon juice. 

The secret of success with any dried-fruit whip consists in much soaking of the fruit 
and thorough cooking of the marmalade. Skins, chopped, are usually retained in the 
marmalade, but, if preferred, remove the skins by means of a sieve. In the case of prunes 
remove the meats from the stones, chop them very fine, and add them to the pulp and sugar 
mixture before cooking. (A rolling pin, if made of very hard wood, may be used by each 
pupil for cracking stones.) Add the white of egg to this marmalade, beat mixture. 
3-10 min. with a Dover beater, then serve raw, or bake or steam as in step 2 of method. 

The pulp of dates (and sometimes that of figs) is occasionally used raw, making the 
preparation of marmalade unnecessary. 

6. Fruit float is made as follows: 

a. Place soft custard or cream in a shallow glass dish. 

b. Drop raw whip by the spoonful into the liquid. 

If preferred, the whip may be poached as follows before being added to the custard: 

a. Drop whip by spoonfuls into simmering water. 

b. Turn out gas, cover dish, and steam 3-5 i^in., or until whip is firm; then drain. 



DIET FOR ADULTS 197 

7. Strawberry or other raw fruit whip is often used as a sauce to pour over various 
desserts, such as the following: 

Angel food or other white cake 
Sponge cake 
Lady fingers 
Snow pudding 
If a sauce is desired, either use the whip recipe as it is or thin it by the addition of 
fruit jtiice or extra sugar and fruit pulp. 

FRUIT PULP FOR USE IN WHTTE-OF-EGG WHIP AND IN CREAM WHIP 

1. 'The pulp of almost any fresh fruits (raw or cooked) may be used singly or 
in any combination; for example: 

Apples Cranberries (cooked only) Pineapple 

Apricots Currants Raspberries 

Bananas Grapes Strawberries (tame or wild) 

Cherries Peaches Etc. 

2. The pulp of almost any dried fruits (see Note 3) may be used singly or in 
any combination; for example: 

Apricots Pears 

Dates Prunes (alone, or combined with apricots) 

Figs Etc, 

NoUa: 

1. Note two methods for preparing raw-apple pulp: 

Grate the apple. 

Scrape the apple with a silver knife. 
Work qtdckly with raw apple, as well as with raw banana, else the fruit will discolor. 

2. Note two methods for preparing raw-banana pulp: 

Peel banana, discard fiber, and mash fruit in a bowl with a potatO-masher or the 
back of a silver fork; or mash fruit by means of a potato-ricer or a fruit press. 
Peel banana, reject fiber, and scrape fruit with a silver knife. 

3. The following is the usual method for securing the pulp from dried fruit: 

fl. Wash fruit and soak it over night in cold water to cover. 

b. Place it over the fire in this same water and let it simmer until it is tender and 
plump and until most of the water is evaporated. 

c. Remove the fruit from the liquor and chop or grind it to a fine pulp. 
J^ lb. raw prunes results in about 1 c. stewed prunes. 

Cooking of dried fruit is not always essential as a means of securing the ptdp; soaking 
of the fruit may be sufficient. Sometimes dates require neither soaking nor cooking. 

4. The chilled pulp of any raw or cooked fruit, mashed only or pressed through a sieve, 
may be used in the recipes on pages 195 and 200. Avoid juice. Seeds and skin often im- 
prove the appearance of whips. 

Cooked fruit (prepared from either fresh or dried fruit) may include any of the following 

types: 

Baked, steamed, or stewed fruit 
Marmalades, preserves, and jellies 
Canned fruit (fresh fruit only) 
Beware of adding excess sugar to whips when sweetened sauces, jams, etc., are used. 



198 



LESSONS IN COOKERY 



5. Fruit jidce, canned or fresh, may be substituted for either of the following: 
A larger quantity of pulp 

An equal quantity of pulp, if a little gelatin is used as a thickening agent 
If, in either case, part of the mixture does not whip, the unwhipped portion may be 
placed in a tall-stenuned glass and the whip be piled on top, thus producing a pretty 
effect with grape or Damson-plum juice, etc. 



Ingredients: 

It. 
2tb. 



0-2 tb. 

O-J^tb. 
1 h. tb. 



White-of-Egg and Gelatin Whip, or Sponge 

1 tb. granulated gelatin 

2 tb. cold water 
Ji c. boiling hot liquid, selected singly or in any suitable combination from 

the following: 

Water or milk 

Cream (see Note 2) 

Fruit juice, raw or canned (such as grape, orange, raspberry, 

strawberry, or sweet cider) 
Jelly or jam (diluted with water until as thin as cream) 
Strong coffee, cocoa, or chocolate 

Sirup (such as caramel, maple, com, chocolate, or strained honey) 
Etc. 
Sugar to taste, 0-% c, the quantity depending upon the sweetness of the 

liquid used (see Note 1) 
Lemon juice to taste, for example, 0-3 tb. (see Note 1) 
2 whites of eggs, beaten stiff (see Note 9) 
Optional additions: 

Nuts, chopped (especially good in maple whip) 

Solid fruits, chopped 

Fruit pulp 

Fruit rinds, grated 

Coloring pastes 

Etc. 

Method: 

1. Soak gelatin in cold water 3-5 min. 

2. Dissolve gelatin very thoroughly in boiling hot liquid. (Do not boil any 
lemon juice used in the recipe. Why?) Stirring is essential; and sometimes it is 
necessary to heat the mixtiu-e for a very short time so as to dissolve every particle 
of gelatin. 

3. Add the sugar, and lemon juice if used. Strain, and chill 20-45 niin., or 
until the mixture begins to thicken around the edges. (If by chance the mixture 
becomes more nearly set than this, warm it a little so as to soften it.) 

4. Add the beaten whites of eggs. Caution: Do not beat the whites until 
just before it is time to add them to the gelatin. (Why?) 

6. Set the bowl in a pan of ice water and beat mixture hard with a Dover 
beater 6-12 min., or imtil it is as stiff as a drop batter and almost ready to set. 



DIET FOR ADULTS 



199 



If preferred, beat with a wooden spoon toward the last. It is the beating in of 
much air which gives the pudding a fine, even texture. Much air lightens and 
otherwise changes the color of any whip; for example, it makes snow pudding very 
white. (In work with the class recipe use either a bowl and a Dover beater or a 
plate and a wire beater.) 

6. Add any of the optional additions (nuts, etc.) that are desired. 

7. Heap mixture in small glass molds, and chill. 

8. Turn whip out, or not, from the molds; the whip slips easily from the molds 
if the latter are dipped in hot water, or if a knife dipped in hot water is quickly 
passed around the inside of molds. 

9. Serve with any of the following: 

Cream and sugar 
Soft custard 
• Whipped cream 

Syllabub (see page 202) 
Grape or other fruit juice 

Notes: 

1. If judgment is used as to the type of liquid chosen and the quantities of sugar, etc., 
used, this general recipe results in many delicious desserts; for example, the following 
suggestions as to types of liquid and proportions of sugar and lemon juice (to use in the 
general recipe) have been fotmd to jdeld successful lemon, orange, grape, and sirup whips: 





Boiling Hot Liquid 


Sugar 


Lemon Juice 


Whip 


Class 


Home 


Class 


Home 






recipe 


recipe 


recipe 


recipe 


o. Lemon whip (snow pudding) 


Water 


iMt. 


%c. 


It. 


2%tb. 


6. Orange whip 


Strained orange juice 


fit. 


Ho. 


J^ t. 


It. 


c. Grape whip 


Slightly sweetened grape juice 


Vit. 


Mc. 


%t. 


2tb. 


d. Sirup whip 


Any one of the following 
sirups diluted with water 
until as thin as thin cream: 
Caramel 
Com 
Honey 
Maple 














If the foregoing quantities of sugar and lemon juice are used, the class recipe in each 
case fills, or almost fills, one sherbet glass; the large recipe in each case fills 4-6 sherbet 
glasses. Concord grapes yield a violet whip; Catawbas yield a dark pink whip. 

2. If hot cream {% c.) is used as the liquid in this general recipe, a dish somewhat 
similar to charlotte russe results. Flavor the cream with vanilla or other extract. 

3. Whips made from maple or other sirups are especially popular because so very vel- 
vety in texture; they resemble parfaits in this respect. 

4. This recipe is an excellent one for the use of left-over fruit juice, jelly, etc. A varied 
and interesting lesson results if each pupil is asked to bring 2 tb. fruit juice or other liquid 
from home; see use in class recipe. 

5. This lesson and other gelatin lessons are less expensive if given in cold weather, since, 
as a rule, no ice is required then. 



200 



LESSONS IN COOKERY 



6. White-(tf-^;g and gdatm whip is pretty served as follows: 

a. Place two or three layers of varying colors (such as white, chocolate, and 
strawberry) in a shallow stemmed glass; heap them high in the glass. 

b. Garnish with a little jelly, angelica, or other ornamentation. 

Molds of this kind, prepared in the morning, will keep their shape until dinner at night. 

7. Any of the whips may be used as a sauce or garnish for other desserts, such as sponge 
or angel cakes. If a whip is to be used as a sauce, it is often desirable to have the whip 
thinner than usual; in this case beat the mixture less, chill it less, or use less gelatin. 

8. Jello (or any of the other flavored gelatins) may be beaten stiff by itself, then be 
combined with white <^ egg, cream, etc 

9. In preparing white-of-egg and gelatin whip, the same quality of pudding results if, 
in step 4, unbeaten whites of eggs are added to the g^tin mixture. However, it is doubt- 
ful whether any time is saved by the use of this method. 

10. The following is a typical whip made without whites oi eggs; beat with a Dover 
beater until whip is frothy and thick: ^ 

4t. gelatin 

}i c cold water 

J^ c boiling water 

}i c sliawlxa i y jam or p reser v es (or ra^beny or other fruit jam or p reser v es) 



Ingredierds: 

2tb. 

to taste 
1-2 1. 



Cream Whip 

{Sor 4 serrings) 

1 c cream, measured after beii^ whipped very stiff 
Sugar to taste, powdered or granulated 
Extract, if desired (vanilla or almond is good with rice) 

2 tb -1 c. of one or any suitable mixture oi the following (used as far as 
possible without Hquefying the cream): 

Fruit chopped, shredded, or cut in small cubes (use fresh or 
dried fruit, either raw or cooked; canned fruits, sudi as peaches 
or pineapple, are good) 

Pulp of any raw or cooked fruit (see outline, page 197) 

Fruit juice (grape, berry, etc.) 

Jelly or noarmalade 

Cc^ee, strong 

Fresh marshmallows (cut in small cubes) 

Coconut (shredded) 

Nuts (chopped) 

Fudge (soft and creamy) 

Chocolate, melted, or dry cocoa 

Candied materials, chopped (angelica, checries, ginger, etc) 

Crumbs roUed from gingersnaps, dried cake, or macaroons (see 
Note 2) 

Rice, left-over cooked (see Note 3) 

Etc. 

Mdhoi: 

1. Mix thoroughly all the ingredients except the cream. 



DIET FOR ADULTS 201 

2. Fold in the whipped cream. Beware of beating if any coarse solid foods 
have been used. (Why?) If liqtiids (such as fruit juice) or fine solid foods (such 
as crumbs) are present, it is often desirable to beat for a few seconds, or just until 
mixture is well blended, with a spoon or a Dover beater. 

3. Place whip in glass dishes and serve at once. Lady fingers, sponge cake, or 
crackers are good accompaniments. Garnish if desired, using whole or chopped 
nuts or cherries, etc. ; a slice of fresh or preserved fruit (such as peach or pine- 
apple) may be served on each portion of rice or other whip. 

Notes: 

1. All the ingredients should be ice cold before being mixed. 

2. Macaroon crumbs are prepared as follows: 

a. Dry macaroons (made from genuine almond paste) in a slow oven. 

b. Remove them from oven, let them stand tmtil hard, then roll them with a 
rolling-pin. 

c. Sift cnmibs if desired. 

3. In making rice whip, either of the following may be substituted for sugar: 

Grape or other fruit juice 

Stewed dates or figs, mashed to a pulp 

4. If desired, whip in any or all of the following with the other ingredients: 

Beaten white of egg 

Coloring paste 

Dissolved gelatin (see the following note) 

5. Bavarian creams, made as follows, are closely related to the given recipe for 
cream whip: 

a. Beat simple gelatin jelly to a froth. (Sometimes the beating is omitted.) 

b. Just before the froth sets, fold in cream whipped very stiff, allowing 2-8 tb. 
unwhipped cream to 1 c. jelly. 

Eggs are sometimes added to Bavarian creams, thus making Bavaroises; or a mixture 
of milk and egg is substituted for the cream called for in Bavarian creams. 

Bavarian creams are grouped as follows, according to flavor or typical ingredient: 
Fruit Bavarian creams (lemon, orange, peach, strawberry, etc.) 
Miscellaneous Bavarian creams: 
Chocolate Rice 

Coffee Vanilla (often used in charlotte russe) 

Maple Etc. 

Bavarian creams are often used as the filling for charlottes (see Diet for Children). 

6. The two following recipes are also somewhat related to "cream whip." 

Bohemian Cream 
Method: 

1. Mix together 1 c. thick cream (whipped or not) and 1 c. grape jelly which 
is not very stiff. 

2. Place in glass cups, and chill. 

14 



202 LESSONS IN COOKERY 

Syllabub 

Ingredients: 

1 c. fresh cream 

H-H c. powdered sugar 

}i c. grape juice 

1 white of egg, beaten stiff 

Method: 

1. Whip half the sugar with the cream, half with the white of egg, then combine 
the two mixtures and blend well. 

2. Add grape juice, chill, and serve over chilled and sweetened fruit, such as 
bananas, oranges, pineapple, or strawberries. 

TYPES OF SOUFFLES: A SYNOPSIS 

/. Savory souffUs (used as the main course of a luncheon or as an entrfe at dinner) : 
a. Sauce-soufH6 (white or other sauce as the basis; see page 136) 
6. Custard -soufH6 (firm custard as the basis; see Diet for Invalids) 
c. Omelet-sotiflB6 (foamy omelet as the basis; see Note 7, page 143) 
//. Sweet soufflis (used as desserts) : 

a. Whip (see pages 194-202 ; note that the average whip contains no milk) 

6. Custard-soufH6 

c. Omelet-soufla6 (see Note 7, page 143) 

Noiea: 

1. Souffles are the lightest, or spongiest, form of made dishes; the term souffle is derived 
from a word meaning "to puff." Properly speaking, souffles are baked or steamed and 
are served hot, but the term is here made to include the whips which are served raw. 

2. Both savory and sweet souffles are economical in that they offer an attractive use of 
left-overs. 

3. May any of the souffles be classed as "complete" dishes? 

4. Beaten eggs, as a means of holding air, are used in souffles in either of the following 
ways (it is essential that only fresh eggs be used) : 

a. Whole egg (a custard effect results) : 

White and yolk beaten together 
White and yolk beaten separately 

b. White only, beaten stiff 

Is the yolk of egg (beaten) ever used by itself as a means of holding air in souffles? 
Eggs are also used in souffles as a means of holding steam and carbon dioxide (see Note 6). 

5. It is always best to work in a cool place while beating eggs or otherwise preparing 
for any souffi6. Why? 

6. When eggs are expensive, a little baking powder may be substituted for part of the 
eggs used in souffles; 1 1. baking powder takes the place of one white of egg. Such a sub- 
stitution is often made in savory souffle. 

7. Pupil to show that all souflB^s are really elaborations of plain foamy omelet (see 
page 141). 



DIET FOR ADULTS 203 

VISCOIJS SUBSTANCES OF USE IN GENERAL COOKING: A SYNOPSIS 

{A study primarily of leavens) 

I. Certain substances, by reason of their properties of viscosity and elasticity, 
one or both, are easily made light or flttfiEy by one or more of the following 
leavening agents: 

Air (a mixture of gases) 
Steam (a gas or vapor) 

Carbon dioxide (a gas produced by baking powder, yeast, etc.) 
Greater lightness results, as a rule, when the leavening agents are heated (see 
Note 1) ; note expansion of soufHfe and other baked dishes. Viscosity, or sticki- 
ness, in a substance allows it to take up and retain air oi; a gas with ease. Elas- 
ticity in a substance allows of the free expansion of air or a gas; note the extreme 
elasticity of gluten. 

Note study of leavening agents in thie tables of Notes 2 and 3. 

II. The chief viscous substances,^ used singly or in any combination in cooking, 
are as follows (see Notes 3 and 4) : 

Gluten 

Albumin (found in white of egg,^ etc.) 

Gelatin 

Rich cream 

Sugar solutions Gdli^» maple sirup, molasses, honey, etc.) 

Cooked starch paste (such as white sauce, or the stiflF paste sometimes 

used in breads, etc., made with substitutes for wheat flours; see Food 

Economy, page 166) 

III. Note possible aids to viscosity: 

Low temperature, in case of albumin, cream, etc. 

A little salt, added to white of egg 

Etc. 
As a rule, anything (such as cold) which tends to make a liquid thick tends to 
make the liquid more viscous, as in the case of molasses. Heat often "seals the 
trap" for air or a gas; note the setting, or stiffening, of albumin, cooked starch 
paste, and gluten by heat. 

IV. The chief effects of forcing a gas or air (a mixture of gases) into foods are 
as follows: 

Increase in bulk (the food is made lighter or less dense; compare the 

bulk of white of egg unbeaten and beaten) 
Change of color (the food is whitened) 
Change of flavor 

1 For a list of viscous substances of possible use as the basis of mayonnaise (an emulsion), 
see Diet for Invalids, "Ingredients for Mayonnaise: A Synopsis," Note 1. 

2 Saponin, a foam-producing substance, is a forbidden substitute for white of e^ in 
meringues, frostings, etc. See Journal of Home Economics, December, 1916, page 632. 



204 



LESSONS IN COOKERY 



Notes: 

1. Heat causes the following changes to take place dtiring the cooking of foods (all gases 
expand when heated) : 

a. It expands air. Air does not require a great quantity of heat for expansion. 
Such foods as omelets, which depend upon the expansion of the air beaten 
into eggs as the chief leavening agent, should be cooked at a moderate or low 
temperature. Intense heat stiffens the albtunin too soon, there is no expansion 
of air, and the food is rendered tough and flat. "Any mixture lightened by 
eggs, as sponge cake or souffle, requires a lower temperatiu-e than does one 
lightened by baking powder, as biscuits, or by steam, as popovers."i 

b. It evaporates water and expands it into steam. If the steam can be inclosed 
within the food, it will produce a very light product. Very high and sudden 
heat must be used when steam is the leavening agent, and the heat must be 
continued long enough to dry the product well. The sudden change of water 
into steam results in the hoUowness of popovers and cream puffs. Are any 
other food products hollow? Steam occupies about 1700 times more space 
than the water from which it was produced. 

c. It expands carbon dioxide. Such products as baking-powder biscuits, which 
depend upon the expansion of carbon dioxide (produced by the action of 
tartaric acid, add phosphate, or alum upon bicarbonate of soda), should be 
cooked at high temperatures to make them light. 

2. Pupil to signify by checks which of the three leavening agents named in the head- 
ings of the table below are utilized in yeast breads, etc., and by crosses which are probably 
the chief leavening agents used. (Crackers, fritters, omelets, pastry, etc., may also be 
listed in the left-hand column.) 

As a rule, air, steam, and carbon dioxide are used in conjtmction with one another. 
For example, air usually plays a minor part in popovers and other members of the so-called 
"steam group"; air and steam usually play a minor part in yeast breads and other 
members of the so-called "carbon-dioxide group." 



Foods 



Lbavbning Agents 



Expansion of Air 
(See Note 1. a) 



Change of 

Water into Steam 

(See Note 1,6) 



Expansion of 
Carbon Dioxide 
(See Note 1. c) 



Breads, yeast 

Cakes containing no fat (sponge and angel cakes) 
Cakes containing fat (cup cake, potmd cake, etc.) 
Cereals (pop com and puffed rice and wheat) . . 

Cream puffs 

Meringues 



Popovers 

Souffles (savory and sweet) . 
Yorkshire pudding 



1 University of Illinois Bulletin, Vol. XIV, No. 47, "Fats and Oils in Cookery. Cooking. 
Temperatures," by Williams and Gray. 



DIET FOR ADULTS 



205 



3. Pupil to signify (by crosses in the right-hand columns) which of the leavening agents 
and viscous substances — the names of which are given in the headings of the table below 
— are used in the various soiiffl^: 





Leavening Agents 


Viscous Substances 


Souffles 


Air 


Steam 


Carbon 
Dioxide 


Albumin 


Gelatin 


Rich 


Sugar 
Solution 


Cooked 
starch 
Paste 


SAVORY SOXJFFL^S 

Sauce 


















Custard 


















Omelet , . . 


















SWEET SOUFFLES 

Whip: 
Whole-eee 


















White-of-ecp 


















White-of-egg and 
Helatin 


















Cream, ...«.......',- 


















Custard 








• r 










Ornelet 





































4. Which of the viscous substances listed in II, page 203, are most used in cooking? 
Is the retention of air by dry, sifted flour due to viscosity in the flour? Study Food 
Economy, pages 166-167, for the relation of viscous substances to flour mixtures. 

5. Pupil to add viscogen and other commercial agents used in whipping cream to the 
list of possible aids to viscosity (see III, page 203). 

6. Pupil to discuss the effects of forcing air by beating, etc. (see IV, page 203), into 
each of the following: 

Batters and doughs 

Candy, divinity 

Candy, pulled 

Cocoa 

Cornstarch pudding (a cooked starch 
paste) 

Cream 

Egg white or yolk 
(Discuss the manufacture of floating soap.) 
Pupil to discuss the effects of carbon dioxide (see IV, page 203) in each of the following: 

Batters and doughs 

Molasses candy ) ,^t . /. ^ v 

Tomatosoup f (Note use of soda) 

Water (define "charged" water) 



Frosting, boiled 

Gelatin (see marshmallows, etc.) 

Icecream 

JeUy 

Meltose (a brand of sirup) 

Milkshake 

Olive oil 

Water 



WATER ICES 



Ingredients for water ices are, as follows: 
Water 
Sugar 
Pruit jtiice 

The proportions may be varied as desired. The following are the proportions 
for typical water ices, each being made on the basis of 4 c. water and yielding 
8-10 servings. A typical class recipe is given in the last space. 



Water 

Sugar 

Lemon juice .... 
Other fruit juice 



Lbmon 



4 c. 
1K-2C. 

H-ic, 



Orangb 



4c. 

lK-2 c. 

He 

2 c. orange 

juice 



Pineapple 



4c. 

lK-2 c. 

He. 

2 c. pineapple 

juice 



Strawberry 



4c. 

Itb. 
2 c. straw- 
berry juice 



Raspberry 



4c. 

2tb. 
2 c. raspberry 
juice 





Currant 


Raspberry 

AND 

Currant 


Ginger 


Cranberry 


Lemon 

(Cla^s 
recipe) 


Water 


4 c. 
IHc 


4.C. 


4c. 

Ic. 

He 

H c. orange 

juice 

H lb. Ca,nton 

ginger, cut in 

small pieces 


4c. 
2c. 

Itb. 

2 c. cranberry 

juice (from 

cooked 

berries) 


Ho. 

2tb. 
2t. 


Sugar 

Lemon juice 


Other fruit juice 

Miscellaneous 

ingredients 


2 c. currant 
juice 


K c. rasp- 
berry juice 
IH c. currant 
juice 



Method: 

1. Boil sugar and water together to make a clear sirup; boil 20 min., in the case 
of all recipes built on the basis of 4 c. water and 1-2 c. sugar (lJ^-2 c. sugar are 
usually used to 4 c. water). 

2* Skim, cool, add fruit juice, strain, and freeze solid. Use 3 c. ice to 1 c. salt. 

Notes: 

1. This is the method for all water ices. 

2. Avoid heating fruit juices, else the flavor will be injured. 

3. In dealing with raspberries, strawberries, or currants, mash the fruit, squeeze it 
through a double cheesecloth, then add it to the cooled sirup. 

206 



DIET FOR ADULTS 207 

4. In making ginger ice, boil the ginger 15 min. with the sugar and water to make a 
flavored sirup. 

5. Possible additions to and garnishes for ices include: 

Grated rind of orange or lemon 

Blood-orange or pomegranate juice (a pretty ice results) 
Orange carpels, or sections 
Chopped pineapple 
Chopped nuts 
Angelica cut in strips 
Candied cherries 
Coloring pastes 
Expense may be reduced by the substitution of citric acid for part of the lemon juice. 
Do not use the citric acid without any lemon juice. 

6. In addition to its use as a dessert, an ice is often served as a relish with the meat 
course of a course dinner. 

7. The following are useful in pounding ice for freezing ptirposes: 

Pick 
Shaver 

Ice-bag (such as a potato sack) 
Hammer (such as a wooden mallet or a flat iron) 
A machine for grinding ice is a great convenience. 

8. Note the following class suggestions for freezing ices, sherbets, ice cream, etc. : 

a. Pupil to bring fniit juice from home ; semi-sweet jelly or jam diluted with water 

is a possible substitute for juice. Ices are excellent for the use of left-overs. 

Caution: If the mixtures for ices, sherbets, etc., are too sweet, they will not 

freeze. Why? 
h. Teacher or a pupil to break ice into very small pieces by means of a pick and 

hammer. If care is used, this can be done in the sink or in the ice-chamber 

of the refrigerator. 

c. Each pupil to pound her own ice as follows: 

(1) Place the ice in a small-sized flour or a salt bag brought from home. 

(2) Place the bag on a meat board and pound it until the ice is as fine as 
ice-cream salt. If a rolling pin is of hard wood, it may be used for 
pounding; pound with the entire length of the pin. 

d. Each pupil to^ freeze her own mixture as follows: Poiu: the mixture to be 
frozen into a sample baking-powder can having no leaks, set can in a quart 
basin, and pack with ice and salt. (It is often well to substitute the top of 
a double boiler for the can, especially in making ice cream.) Occasionally, 
so as to avoid lumps, beat the freezing mixture from the sides of can with a 
spatula. If preferred, six to eight small cans may be frozen in one dishpan 
of ice and salt. A tin cup, covered with the lid of a jelly glass and set in a 
basin, is also good as a freezer. 

9. In preparing large quantities of sirup for use in ices, it is well to use a sirup scale, 
or gauge. 

10. The term "ices," in the broader sense, includes frapp6s, etc. Pupil to supply data 
for the following table. Study Boston Cooking-School Cook Book, by Farmer; Bulletin 123, 
Iowa State College of Agriculture, Ames, Iowa; etc. 



208 



LESSONS IN COOKERY 
Chief Types of Ices 



ICBS 


Description 


Ice proper 




Sherbet, or sorbet: 
1. Plain fruit 


' 


2. Milk 




3. Granite 




Punch. 









Souffle. 



Frapp^. 



BEVERAGES 

The following is a list of cold beverages; these beverages are usually iced, 
except in the case of oatmeal or bran water, and are relished particularly in hot 
weather: 

1. Tea, coffee, cocoa, and chocolate. Note that the same tea may not be 
equally palatable served hot or cold. 

2. Oatmeal or bran water, sometimes served to workers in the factory or in the 
fields; on the hottest days it can often be drunk with safety, when ice water would 
be dangerous. 

3. Fruit beverages: 

a. Cooked-fruit beverages (prepared from solid fruit): 
Baked-apple or pear water is prepared as follows: 

(1) Cut 3 baked apples or pears in slices, add IJ^ c. boiling 
water, and let stand 1 hr. 

(2) Strain, and chill. Serve with sugar, if desired. 
Preserved-fruit water is prepared as follows: 

(1) Add 1 c. boiling water to 2-3 tb. preserved fruit, chopped, 
selected singly or in any combination from the following: 

Cherries Pineapple 

Currants, black Plums 

Peaches Etc. 

(2) Let stand 1 hr., strain, and chill. Sugar and spice are 
possible additions. (Serve hot, if preferred.) 

6. Fruitades (beverages prepared from fresh or canned fruit juice): 
These are the same as water ices, except that they contain less sugar 
and are not frozen. (See water ices, page 206.) Jelly is sometimes 
substituted for the fruit juice. Juices for fruitades include the 
following: 

Currant ' Lime 

Grape Orange 

Lemon Plum 

c. Punches (derived from fruitades): Serve in sherbet glasses, from a 
punch bowl. 

d. Fruit-vinegar beverages (general recipe is given at the top of the fol- 
lowing page). 

Etc. 

14 209 



210 LESSONS IN COOKERY 

Fruit-Vinegar Beverage 

Method: 

Mix 2-3 tb. of any of the following fruit vinegars (simps) with 1 c. ice water 
containing chipped ice: 
Blackberry 
Currant 
Plum 
Raspberry 
Strawberry 
Etc. 

Notes: 

1. Raspberry vinegar is prepared as follows: 

a. Press ripe red raspberries through a fine sieve lined with cheesecloth. 

b. Let juice stand (to sour) 4-6 days in a stone crock. 

c. Remove the white sheet of foam formed on the surface. (Of what is this scum 
composed?) 

d. Mix the clear juice with almost half as much sugar as juice. 

e. Boil until a creamy sirup results, then seal air-tight in bottles. 

2. Sometimes, especially in class work, it will be found convenient to work as follows: 

a. Prepare jelly from the first extraction of any sour jelly fruit. 

b. Prepare fruit vinegar from the second extraction of juice. 

Lemonade 
Ingredients: 

Juice of 1 large lemon (3-4 tb. juice) 
1-13^ c. cold or boiling water 
Sugar or sirup to taste (2-3 tb., for instance) 
Garnish, selected from the following: 

Thin slice of orange or lemon 

Cherries 

Berries 

Mint leaves 

Method: 

1. Strain the juice, then add water and sugar or sirup and stir to dissolve all 
the sugar. (Which is preferable, cold or boiling water?) 

2. Place in tall glasses or sherbet cups, garnish, and chill; chipped ice is a good 
addition. 

Notes: 

1. Other fruitades are made in a similar way; vary the sugar and the water according 
to the acidity of the fruit juice. 

2. The more add the fruit, the more the beverage is relished in hot weather. 

3. Note that sour lemonade and other fruitades, as well as fruit vinegars, are often usefid 
in the treatment of overweight. 

4. Boiling hot lemonade, taken at bedtime, is of especial use in the treatment of colds. 



DIET FOR ADULTS 211 

5. Derivatives of the given recipe for plain lemonade include the following: 

a. Lemonade and grape juice, mixed half and half 
h. Tea lemonade: 

(1) Add boiHng hot lemonade to tea leaves and let stand 3-5 min. in a 
warm place. 

(2) Strain into glasses, garnish, and chill. 

c. Irish-moss lemonade 

d. A cheaper form of lemonade: 

(1) Prepare a 50 per cent water solution of citric-acid crystals, bottle, 
and keep on hand. 

(2) Make a lemonade by adding ice water and sugar to part lemon juice 
and part citric-acid solution. 

Avoid this kind of lemonade with children and invalids. 
Etc. 

6. Sirup is often more convenient than sugar for sweetening these beverages, especially 
if they are made with cold water. Why? Sirup for fruit beverages is made as follows: 

a. Add 1 c. water to 1 c. sugar, and stir mixture over fire to dissolve the sugar. 
h. Simmer, without stirring, 10-15 min. 
c. Cool a little, and seal in bottles. 

7. The rind of the orange adds .lavor to orangeade; use, for instance: 

Juice and rind of one sour orange 
1-iyi tb. sugar 
1 c. boiling water 
Pour water over rind and let stand 3-4 min. Add other ingredients, strain, and chill. 

Tea 

Ingredients: {1 cup) 

J^l t. tea (according to the grade of tea, etc.) 
1 c. fresh and freshly boiling water 

Method: 

1. Scald the teapot. 

2. Add tea, pour in boiling water, cover, and let stand (steep) 3-5 min. in a 
warm place, on the back of stove for instance. The tea may be steeped in the 
dining room if the pot is covered with a tea cozy. 

3. Strain into hot cups, and serve at once in any of the following ways: 

a. Clear 

6. With cream or milk 

c. With a thin slice of lemon. Such tea is usually served at afternoon 
parties. Note possible additions or accompaniments: 

Slice of raw apple or orange 

Cherry 

Clove (often inserted in a slice of lemon, orange, or apple) 

Candied flowers (violets, rose petals, etc.) 

Preserved (almost candied) fruit, etc., such as strawberries, pineapple, 
and ginger 



212 LESSONS IN COOKERY 

In serving tea, have at hand a pitcher of very hot water for purposes of dilution. 
Note that tea served clear should be much weaker than that served with cream. 

Serve sugar with tea or not, as preferred. Lump sugar generally is used; rock- 
candy crystals or a rich sugar sirup is sometimes used at afternoon teas. 

If cream and sugar are used, it is well to put them in the cup first, then add the 
tea. (A similar rule applies to coffee.) 

Notes: 

1. Another desirable method is to boil the water in a scalded teapot, then add the tea. 

2. Russian tea is made as follows: 

a. Prepare extra strong tea in a samovar; a cheesecloth bag may be used for 
holding the tea leaves. 

b. Pour a very little of this strong tea into a glass (or a cup), then fill the glass 
with boiling water. 

c. Serve with lemon or not, as desired. 

Russian tea is excellent when a large number of persons is to be served. 
Another good method for use at receptions, etc., is as follows: 

a. Prepare extra strong tea in a teapot, strain it into a second teapot, and place 
under a cozy. 

b. As needed, pour a little of this essence into a cup, and dilute it with boiling 
water. 

3. Avoid a tin teapot; use granite, crockery, or silver. (Let the pupil soak a piece 
of tin overnight in a solution of tannin. Describe effect.) 

4. Note reasons why tea should not be boiled: 

Boiling extracts too much tannin. 

Boiling possibly volatilizes the essential oils. 

5. Tea is often very refreshing to older persons. 

6. Iced tea is relished in hot weather by many persons. 



APPENDIX 



APPENDIX 

PART A. CALORIC VALUE OF FOODS 

FUEL VALUES OF TyPICAL FOODS CONSIDERED IN THIS BOOK 

Let the pupil prepare a lengthy table, copying on each page the headings given below, 
and listing four to ten foods, so far as possible, tmder each letter of the alphabet: 







Calories per 




Calories per 




Food 


LB. OP Edible 


Food 


LB. OF Edible 
Material 




A 




C 






» 










B 




D 


^ 



Notts: 

1. The following are among the references which may be used: Bulletin 28 , "The Chem- 
ical Composition of American Food Materials," Office of Experiment Stations, United 
States Department of Agriculture; Sherman, Chemistry of Food and Nutrition, pages 319- 
331; Locke, Food Values; Forster and Weigley, Foods and Sanitation, pages 369-378. 

2. Which ten of the foods listed have the highest fuel values? Which ten of the foods 
listed have the lowest fuel values? 

3. Prepare various menus for hot days and for cold days. 

4. Using the references given above, let the pupil list six or more foods im4er each of 
the following headings: 

Rich in protein 

Rich in fat 

Rich in carbohydrate 

Rich in both protein and fat 

Rich in both protein and carbohydrate 

Rich in water and cellulose 

215 



216 



LESSONS IN COOKERY 
SUMMABY OP FUEL YALUES: TABLE I 



SOO <K FCWEK 



c2jmS" 5a>-l;000 CaVt IjaOO-lJSOO Cai^ » l.aOO-2.000 Cal- 2J0O&-2.5OO Cai^ 

^1« , J OUCS m LB. OKIES KX LB. OKIES KB LB. OKIES m LB. 



2.500^020 Cai^ 



Notes: 

1. Pupil to list the following foods (groups chiefly) according to the approximate 
fuel values used as headings in the above columns : 



Breads 

Cakes, fat-oontaining 

Cakes, sponge 

Candies 

Cereals, breakfast 

Cheeses 

Chocolate and cocoa (beverages) 

Chocolate (not a beverage) 

Coflfeeand tea 

Cookies 

Cornstarch, tapioca, and sago 

Crackers 

Cream 



Fats (butter, oils, etc.) 

Fish 

Flours 

Flour pastes (macaroni, etc.) 

Fried flour mixtures (doughnuts, fritters, etc. 



Fried vegetables (Saratoga chips, etc) 

Fruits, fresh 

Fruits, dried 

L^:umes, dried 

Meats, fat (bacon, etc) 

Meats, lean (steak, etc) 

Milk, condensed 

Milk, fresh 

Milk, malted 

Nuts 

Olives, green and ripe 

Pastries (pies, etc) 

Pickles, sour 

Soups, cream 

Soups, stock 

Sugars 

Vegetables, green 

Vegetables, root and tuber 

Etc. 



2. In all six columns consider calories per potmd of edible material. 

3. References: The same as for the table on page 215. 



DIET FOR ADULTS 



217 



SUMMARY OF FUEL VALUES: TABLE U 



Groups of Foods 

(Adapted from list in Note 1 

of preceding table) 


Member of Highest 
Fuel Value 


Caloric 
Value 

PER LB. 


Member of Lowest 
Fuel Value 


Caloric 
Value 

PER LB. 












3rea,ds 










Cakes 






' 




Candies 










Cereals, breakfast 










Cheeses 










Cookies 










Fats 










Fish 










Flours 










Fried foods 










Fruits, fresh 










Fruits, dried 










Lesumes. dried 










Meats, fat 










Meats, lean 











Nuts 










Pastries 










Puddings 










Soups 


^ 








Suears 










Vegetables, ereen 










Vegetables, root and 
tuber 












' 












































. 















Notes: 

1. Pupil to state specific examples of foods (together with their caloric values per lb.) 
in the columns at the right. If desired, increase the size of the table so that in dealing 
with each of the groups (beverages, etc.) 2-10 members of highest fuel value and 2-10 
members of lowest fuel value may be listed. 

2. References: The same as for the table on page 215. 

15 



PART B. CALORIC VALUE OP SPECIFIC MENUS 



The following is a specimen outline whereby the pupil is given the method for proving 
by caloric values whether any given menu is hearty or light. 

/. Example of high-calorie diet: 

Menus for One Day for Six Persons 

(Suitable for camping or under other conditions demanding a large output of energy) 

Breakfast (See page 20) 

Farina with chopped figs 
Saut6ed ham Boiled potatoes 



Toast 



Coffee 



Materials 


Volume 


Weight 


Protein 
Calories 


Total 


LB. 


oz. 


Calories 


Farina (cooked mush) 

Figs 

Warn, medium-fat 


3 c. 

12 figs 

6 slices 

6 potatoes 
12 slices 

6tb. 

Ic. 

3 c. 


1 
2 

1 


8 
12 
10 

12 
3 

8 
8 


48 
66 

220 
68 

103 
3 


396 
1,180 
1,007 


Potatoes 

Toast 

Butter 

Sugar 

Milk, for cereal and coffee 


620 
911 
675 
930 


88 


392 




596 


6,111 



Luncheon (See page 13) 
Boiled fish 

Pnme jelly 



Sauted com-meal mush 



Baking-powder biscuits 
Cookies 



Materials 



Fish (average) 

Corn-meal mush, saut^ed. 

Biscuits 

Jellied prunes 

Cookies, soft molasses 

Butter 

Sugar 

Cream, for jelly and tea . . 



Tea 



Volume 



3 c. 
12 avg. 

3 c. 
12 avg. 

6tb. 



Weight 



LB. 



oz. 



8 
8 
8 
6 
3 
3^ 
12 



Protein 
Calories 



688 
40 
28 
44 
40 
3 



24 

867 



Total 
Calories 



1,250 

1,000 
675 

1,678 
650 
675 
348 
660 

6,936 



218 



DIET FOR ADULTS 



219 



Dinner (See page 105) 
Boiled beans 

Com bread 



Boiled potatoes 
Fruit cobbler 



Stewed tomatoes 
Butter 



Materials 


Volume 


Weight 


Protein 
Calories 


Total 


LB. 


op. 


Calories 


Boilc^d beans, with bacon ends 


iHpt. 

6 medium 
3 c. 


1 
2 

1 
1 

1 


8 

8 
8 
3 
8 


250 

68 

36 

192 

3 

• 169 


1,000 


Potatoes 

Stewed tomatoes, with butter 


620 

827 


Com bread 


2,400 


Butter 

Fruit cobbler, with plum jam 


6tb. 


675 
2,355 






718 


7,877 



Note: 

In the foregoing dietary study for six persons for one day the total fuel value of the 
food equals 20,924 calories, or nearly 3,500 calories per person per day. (See average 
daily requirement for hearty diet, page 5.) 

The number of protein calories in the total is 2,181, or a little more than 10 per cent 
of the whole fuel value. 

In this dietary study the meals have been planned so as to 3rield approximately an 
equal number of calories, with a slight progressive increase from breakfast to the last meal 
of the day. It has been found from experiment with persons working out of doors that the 
quantities consumed at the three meals are more nearly equal than in the case of other 
workers. 

//. Example of lights or lovhcalorie, diet: 



Menus for Six Persons 



Luncheon (See page 125) 



Orange soup Cheese wafers 

Potato and green-pea salad Cooked dressing 

Cream-cheese and olive sandwiches 

Angel cake 



Materials 



Orange soup 

Wafers spread with cottage cheese . 

Potato and green-pea salad 

Dressing, cooked 

Filling for sandwiches 

Bread for sandwiches 

Angel cake 



Volume 



3pt. 

12 wafers 
m pt. 

Ic. 



Weight 



6 

8 
10 

S 
10 

6 



Protein 
Calories 



192 
59 
22 

142 

105 
66 

586 



Total 
Calories 



.1,060 
551 
423 
325 
786 
760 
540 

4,445 



220 



LESSONS IN COOKERY 



Dinner (See page 134) 

Broiled fish Hollandaise sauce 

Young beets in butter Bread 

Stewed rhubarb Custard sauce 



Potato curls 
Peanut butter 
Sponge cake 





Volume 


Weight 


Protein 
Calories 


Total 




LB. 


oz. 


Calories 


Fish HaW trout) 




2 


8 

8 

12 

6 

1 + 

12 
6 


536 
34 
36 
34 
70 
45 
5 

74 
72 


1,859 


Hollandaise sauce 

Potato curls 


Ic. 


979 
615 


Beets in butter , 

Bread 

Peanut butter 


Iqt. 
6 slices 
2tb. 
Iqt. 
IMc. 


1 
1 


620 
456 
184 


Stewed rhubarb 


910 


Custard sauce 

Sponge cake 


569 
636 








906 


6,828 



Note: 

Assuming that these two meals have been planned to jrield three-fourths of the day's 
ration, the number of calories per person per day will equal a little over 2,500. (See 
average daily requirement for light diet, page 5.) 

Sufficient high-protein foods have been introduced to bring the percentage of the pro- 
tein calories to very nearly 15 per cent, because, since the protein requirement is more 
constant than the calorific, the range of the protein calories may well be in inverse ratio 
to those of the total calories, especially in a very low-calorie diet. 



PART e. ONE-HUNDRED CALORIE PORTIONS 

Fuel values of foods are very conveniently measured in tenns of 100-calorie portions. 
The following statements (simple, and hence of use to the housekeeper) are quoted from 
Mary Swartz Rose, Feeding the Family , page 13 : 

Approximate Quantities of Food to Yield 100 Calories 

Cooked or flaked breakfast foods H-^H cups 

Milk ^ cup, whole; 1 J^ cups, skim 

Cream Ji cup, thin; 1 ^i tablespoons, very thick 

Butter, olive oil, or any other kind of fat 1 tablespoon 

Bread 1 slice 3 in. X3>^ in. XI in. 

Uneeda biscuit 4 crackers 

Fresh fruit 1 large orange or apple; 1 medium banana or 

bunch of grapes; 2 medium peaches or pears 

Dried fruit 4 or 5 prunes or dates; 2 dozen raisins ;1H large figs 

Eggs 1 exceptionally large; 1}4 medium 

Meat (beef, lamb, mutton, veal, chicken) About 2 ounces of cooked lean meat 

Bacon (cooked crisp) About J^ ounce (4 small thin slices) 

Potatoes 1 medium 

Sugar 1 tablespoon granulated; 3J^ "full size*' lumps 

Cocoa (made with milk) % cup 

Cream of bean soup J^ cup 

Macaroni and cheese J^ cup 

Rice pudding H cup 

Ice cream (made with thin cream) Ji cup 

Milk sherbet Ji cup 

Sponge cake 1 large individual cake 

Nuts (shelled almonds, peanuts, pecans) About J^ ounce 

Sweet chocolate About J^ otmce 

The following statements are quoted from Anna E. Richardson and Jessie P. Rich, 
University of Texas Bulletin, No. 1804 : 

Approximate Quantities of Foods to Yield 100 Calories 

NAME OF FOOD AND SERVING OUNCES 

Bread (com), small square 1 . 30 

Cabbage, 3 cups 11 .00 

Celery .19.00 

Cheese (full cream), IJ^ cubic inches 82 

Cottage cheese, 4 cubic inches 3 . 12 

Custard (milk), ordinary cup 4.29 

Grape juice, small glass 4.20 

Lettuce 17.30 

Olives (green), 7 olives 1 . 10 

Ptiffed rice, l?i cups 97 

Shredded wheat, 1 biscuit .94 

221 



222 



LESSONS IN COOKERY 



Notes: 

1. See the following references for further details (lists, costs, photographs, etc.) con- 
cerning 100-calorie portions: 

Irving Fisher, "A Graphic Method in Practical Dietetics," Journal of the Ameri- 
can Medical Association, April 20, 1907, Vol. XLVIII, pages 131&-1324. 

Henry C. Sherman, Chemistry of Food and Nutrition (1917 ed.), pages 128-129, 
319-331. 

Mary Swartz Rose, Feeding the Family, Tables I and III of the Appendix. 

Kinne and Cooley, Foods and Household Management, page 317. 

Fisher and Fisk, How to Live, pages 175-183. 
The books by Rose and Kinne and Cooley contain photographs of 100-calorie portions. 

2. Pupil Problem I: Prepare an exhibit of 100-calorie portions, making careful meastire- 
ments either by weight or by volume.. Group the 100-calorie portions; for example: 

Beverages Fruits, fresh and dried Soups 

Desserts Meats Starches and cereals 

Fats Salads Vegetables, fresh and dried 

Such an exhibit makes possible a vivid and simple comparison of food values. 

Photograph the exhibit, if desired. 

3. PupU Problem II: Using the 100-calorie portion scheme, make a quick estimate 
of the total number of calories consumed by each pupil on the preceding or any other day. 

4. PupU Problem III: Carefully calculate the menu for one day for one person. 
Complete work on the day's menu given below and on page 223, and plan other days' 
menus in a similar way. 

"S. P." means standard portion of 100 calories. State any multiple or fractional part 
of a 100-calorie portion, just as desired. Refer to a table by Fisher or another authority 
for data a and d. The calories furnished by the daily protein should constitute 10-15 per 
cent of the total calories furnished for the day (this is a safe and average rule to follow). 

If she so desires, the pupil may complete the following menu in such a way that the 
total number of grams of protein and also the total calories for the day shall be in accord- 
ance with the pupil's own requirement for one day. (The total daily calorie demands of 
the pupil can be roughly estimated by multiplying her body weight by 16-18. These 
figures represent the number of calories per pound required by the pupil according to the 
amount of exercise taken.) 



Breakfast: 



Kind of Food 


a. Quantity in a S. P. 

(Give data in oz. only when 

necessary) 


b. Number of 
S. P. Served 


c. Total 
Calories 
Served 


d. Protein 

Calories 

Served 


Cantaloupe 

Shredded wheat 

Milk, whole 

Beef, round 

Boiled rice 


}/i ordinary serving 
1 biscuit 
1 small glass 
Ordinary serving 
Ordinary cereal dish 


2 

1 
1 
1 


200 
100 
100 
100 
50 


6 
13 
19 
90 
10 


Com bread 




Butter 






















Total: 


Total: 




Is 



>4> 1-1 ^ O W ,5> 



•§ i p 



«• 8 c « -P -S 



:3 

o ;3 .a 
O O Oh 



nil 

1 < w o 



wcocotocococoto 



'^ s 



•5 2 o «• 
ftoo 



i^ll- 



sli 



h pa 



kJ A O A 



A U 



III 
•^ g ^ 

CO &, 






"3 9 * «^ CI S N , . 

3 « 2 I *=! 1 -H* 2 f: ^ 

.-5cico^io«t>^odoic 






So- So 



.Jo® 

i S a. 



o o 



l1l§1lll^.4 



DIET FOR ADULTS 



223 



Luncheon: 



Macaroni 

Cheese, American 

Butter 

Tomaj;oes, fresh . . 

Rolls 

Strawberries 

Sugar, granulated 



Total: 



Total: 



Dinner: 



Veal, leg 

Potato chips 

Carrots, cooked 

Butter 

Bread, white 

Olives, green 

Orange 



Total: 
Total for day: 



Total: 
Total for day: 



5. PupU Problem IV: See Carlotta C. Greer, A Text-Book of Cooking, page 364. 

6. PupU Problem V: List 100-calorie portions according to their comparative • costs, 
using the following headings: 



Group I 

Less than 1 cent per 

100 calories 


Group II 

1-2 cents per 100 

calories 


Group III 

2H-5 cents per 100 

calories 


Group IV 

Over 6 cents per 100 

calories 











224 LESSONS IN COOKERY 

Let the pupil, if possible, bring the following prices up-to-date (note that the time may 
come when the housewife will buy largely in terms of calories): 

Cost in Cents of 1,000 Calories^ 

Glucose IK 

Com meal ' 2 

Wheat flour 2J4 

Oatmeal 2^ 

Cane sugar 3J^ 

Dried beans 4 

Salt pork (fat) 4^ 

Rice 5 

Wheat bread 5^ 

Oleomargarine - 7J4 

Potatoes 7H 

Butter 10 

Milk 10 

Smoked ham lOJi 

Cheese 11% 

Loin pork 12 Ji 

Mutton (leg) 16Ji 

Salt cod 19}^ 

Sirloin beef 24 

Turkey 40 

Codfish steak (fresh) 42 



* Graham Lusk, The Fundamental Basis of Nutrition^ 1914, page 44. 



PART D. PLANNING AND SERVING OF MEALS 
FOR THE NORMAL ADULT ^ 

DIAGRAM (TRIANGLE) TEST FOR MENUS 

Every correct menu passes the following diagram test (the object of the test is to 
point out the comparative weight of courses) : 

Heaviest (apex) course 



Light course 




Light course 



Every correct menu has a central motive, the same as any other design. Two or 
more heavy courses are avoided; one heavy course is provided, and it is much heavier 
than the other courses. The courses lead up scale to the heavy course, then down scale 
to a light course; courses of moderate weight may be foimd between the heavy and light 
courses on either side of the scale. A breakfast is usually simply up scale only. 



Notes: 



1. Note the application of the diagram 


test to three typical menus: 




Breakfast 


Luncheon 


Dinner 


Courses: 




Courses: 




Courses: 




Fruit 




Soup 




Soup 




Cereal 




Protein-food course 


Fish (small serving) 


Protein-food course 


(usually 


an entree, such 


Meat 




(egg, meat, or fish) 


as a meat entree) 


Salad 








Salad 




Dessert 








Dessert 








Dtagram: 


• 


Diagram: 




Diagram: 






y Protein-food 




^.Protein-food 




yv^^^Main protein- 


J 


f course 




N. course 




/ Nw food course 


' <f 


(Not an essen- 
tial course) 




^ 


f^ 




/Fruit 




/ Soup 


Dessert \ 


/Soup 


Dessert\ 



It is a good plan to submit all menus to the diagram test. Let the pupil diagram 
various good and poor menus; for example: menus given on pages 230-239; a Thanks- 
giving-dinner menu; a banquet menu. 

lit is suggested that the teacher assign three lessons to consist respectively of the serving of 
(a) a simple breakfast, (W a simple luncheon, and (c) a simple dinner. (For detailed notes on 
serving, see Lucy G. Allen, Table Service, 1919.) 

225 



226 LESSONS IN COOKERY 

2. Note variotis other terms which may be applied to the heaviest course of a menu: 

Primary cotu^ (light courses are secondary) Main course 

Basic course Main protein-food course 

Essential course Climax (or apex) course 

In general, the term heavy as applied to soups, etc., means courses of high fuel 
(caloric) value; the term light means courses of low fuel value. 

3. The smaller the ntmiber of courses in any menu, the heavier aU the courses (soup, 
entr^, salad, dessert, etc.) should be; for example: Serve a heavy cream soup in a one- 
course or in a two-course luncheon; serve a very light cream soup in an eight-course 
luncheon. Serve a heavy salad in a one-course or a two-course luncheon; serve a light 
salad in an eight-course limcheon. Serve a clear soup with a hearty dinner; serve a semi- 
heavy soup (such as a cream soup) with a light dinner. Serve a heavy dessert in a 
three-course dinner; serve a very light dessert in an eight-course dinner. 

However, in general, the following statements are true (by dinner in this note is meant 
a dinner of several courses) : 

Soup: A luncheon or supper soup is heavy or semi-heavy (occasionally light) ; a 
dinner soup is light. Light soups are clear in most cases. 

Meat: The meat course for a limcheon or a supper consists of a light meat or 
a meat substitute; a dinner meat is heavy. 

Salad: A limcheon or a supper salad is often heavy; a dinner salad is very 
light (generally head lettuce, chicory, water-cress, cucumbers, tomatoes, 
oranges, or other light vegetables or fruits, served with French dressing; 
avoid mayonnaise or very heavy cooked dressing for a dinner salad). 

Dessert: A luncheon or supper dessert is heavy or light; a dinner dessert is light. 

Suggestions for heavy courses (pupil to make additions to the lists) : 

Soup course: 

Cream soups, thick (purees, such as pea, bean, or lentil) 
Chowder, or stew (clam, oyster, com, etc.) 
Bisque (such as oyster, clam, scallop, or lobster) 

Main protein-food course: 
Most meat dishes 
Some fish dishes 
Dried-legume dishes (such as baked beans) 

Salad course: 

Meat (or other protein food) with mayonnaise 
Potatoes (or other heavy vegetable) with mayonnaise 
Complete-dish salad with mayonnaise 

Dessert course: 

Mincemeat and some other pies (with or witljout cheese) 

Plum pudding and some other puddings 

Ice cream and cake 

Nuts and raisins 

Crackers and cheese (a dessert substitute or supplement) 



DIET FOR ADULTS 227 

Suggestions for light coiirses (pupil to make additions to the lists) : 

Relish course^ such as a fruit relish or a canap^ (see outline, below, on hors 

d'oeuvres) 
Soup course: 

Bouillons 

Consomm^ . .^ 

Broths (often jellied) 

Fruit soups 

Cream soups, thin 
Main protein-food course (this course in a Itmcheon is often classed as an entrde) : 

Cold meats, sliced 

Escalloped protein foods (eggs, fish, etc.) 

Protein-food croquettes 

Complete "dishes, so-called (see Food Economy, pages 43-104), such as: 
Creamed protein foods on toast 
Stuffed juicy vegetables 
Hash 
Salad course: 

Salad green (such as lettuce) with French dressing 

Juicy fruit or vegetable with French dressing 

Gelatin jelly with French dressing 
Dessert course: 

Most fruits, either raw or stewed 

Simple gelatin desserts 

Ices and sherbets 

4. Broadly speaking, heavy courses may be termed cold- weather cotuses; light 
courses, hot-weather courses. 

5. Clear soups have very little value except as appetizers. 

All hot soups are stimulating because hot liquids are so quickly absorbed. Meat 
soups (clear or heavy) have additional stimulating value because of the extractives. 

HORS D'(EUVR£S 

1. Definition: Hors d'ceuvres may be broadly defined as beginnings, appetizers, relishes, 
or savories. Webster says an hors d'ceuvre is "a dish served as a relish usually at the 
beginning of a meal" (dinner or luncheon). Hors d'ceuvres are served hot or cold. 

2. Essentials: 

Small size of serving 

Neatness and daintiness in appearance 

Piquancy in flavor 

3. Types: 

a. Canapes (small strips or other forms of toast with a covering or canopy of 

savory material; see page 228) 
h. Fish cocktails, prepared from any of the following: 

Clams Sardines 

Crabs • Scallops 

Lobsters Shrimps 

Oysters Tuna fish 



228 LESSONS IN COOKERY 

c. Fruit relishes (see Diet for Adults, pages 121-124) 

d. Miscellaneous relishes, such as: 

Caviare 

Fish, marinated 

Fish, smoked (such as salmon and herring) 

Oysters and clams, served raw on the shell 

Sardines (served in various ways) 

Meats, cold, sliced very thin, such as: 

Chicken livers 

Goose livers 

Ham 

Sausage of various kinds 

Tongue 
Meats, potted or deviled 
Cucumbers, fresh 
Olives 
Radishes 

Pickles (gherkins, etc.) 
Tomatoes, small 

General Method for Canapes 

1. Cut 34""^" slices of stale white or brown bread in any of the following forms: 
Diamonds 
Horseshoes 
Leaves 
Rectangles 
Rounds 
Stars 

Strips, 4''xlJ^'' 
Etc. 

jrown (toast) the bread by any of the following methods: 
Toasting on a toaster 

Baking (butter the bread before placing it in the oven) 
Fr3ring 
Saut6ing 

8. Spread the toast with savory or plain butter. 

4. Spread the toast with one or any suitable combination of the following savory foods 
(well seasoned) : 

Anchovy butter 

Caviare 

Cheese, cream or grated 

Crab or lobster meat, minced 

Eggs, hard-cooked in the shell (sliced or chopped) 

Fish, cooked or smoked (minced) 

Meat, cooked and minced (bacon, ham, chicken, tongue, etc.) 

Sardines (whole or boned and ground to a paste) 

Vegetables (mushrooms, sliced tomatoes, etc.) 



DIET FOR ADULTS 229 

6. Place each serving on a small plate set on a service plate, and serve it hot or cold 
after garnishing with any of the following: 

Parsley Olives 

Pimentos (especially good with cheese) Savory butter or cream put 

Radish roses through a pastry tube 

(Canap6s are eaten with a fork, or with the fingers if necessary.) 

ENTREES 

1. Definition: An entr^ is a light, savory, made dish served at dinner or luncheon 
between the main, or regular, courses. An entr6e (usually protein food) is often served 
after the soup or fish course of a dinner or limcheon; an entree (usually vegetable) is often 
served after the meat, or heavy, course of a dinner or limcheon. 

Most entr^ are served hot, but some are served cold (iced or not). Entr^ are not 
served at table as a nile; that is, they are brought to the table on individual plates. 
Entr6es are probably the cook's best means of utilizing left-overs. 

2. Food value: Entries are classified as substantial or light, according to their food 
value. Some entr^s are so substantial that they may be used as the main protein-food 
courses of luncheons and informal dinners. 

The foundation of an entree consists of one of the following: 
Protein foods: 

Meat or poultry 

Fish 

Egg 

Cheese 
Vegetables (French artichokes, asparagus, mushrooms, etc.) 
Fruit (occasionally used) 

3. Typical hot entrees:^ • 

Creamed protein foods, such as: 

Sweetbreads on toast 

Goldenrod eggs 

Chicken k la king 

Welsh rabbit 

Chicken in Swedish timbales 
Stuffed juicy vegetables (such as peppers, tomatoes, and egg plant) 
Timbales (chicken, fish, etc.; often prepared from force-meat) 
Soufii6s, savory (fish, meat, cheese, etc.) 
Croquettes (protein-food and complete-dish croquettes) 
Fricassees 

Casserole and ramekin dishes (escalloped foods, etc.) 
Meat pies (chicken, etc.) 
Fritters 

4. Typical cold entrees: 

Aspic jelly 

Chaud-froids (chicken, sweetbread, etc.) 

iFor many recipe suggestions, see Food Economy, pages 43-104 (the complete-dish series); 
Diet for Adults, pages 136-138 (savory souffles). 



230 



LESSONS IN COOKERY 



TYPICAL MENUS 
TTPICAL HOMB-BREAKFAST MBNUSl 

Breadstuffs and other accompaniments are considered to a certain extent in these 
menus. For further suggestions as to accompaniments see Notes 1 and 2. 

One-course breakfasts (see Note 3) : 

{Beverage, cereal (with or without fruit) {Beverage, breadstuff, sweet relish 
{ Beverage, breadstuff { Beverage, breadstuff, protein food 

TwO'Course breakfasts: 
i Cereal 

( Beverage, breadstuff 
(Cereal 
( Beverage, breadstuff, protein food 



j Fruit 

I Beverage, breadstuff 

( Fruit 

( Beverage, breadstuff, protein food 



Three-course breakfasts: 




Fruit 


Fruit 


Cereal 


Cereal 


Beverage, breadstuff 


Beverage, breadstuff, protein food 


Notes: 




1. Select the foods from the following list: 




Fruits: 




Dried fruits, raw or stewed: 




Apricots 


Pears 


Dates 


Prunes 


Figs 


Raisins 


Peaches 


Etc. 




Fresh juicy fruits, raw: 




Apples 


Melons (such as muskmelon and 


Bananas 


watermelon) 


Berries 


Oranges 


Cherries 


Peaches 


Grapefruit 


Pears 


Grapes 


Phims 


Fresh juicy fruits, baked: 




Apples 


Pears 


Bananas 


Etc. 


Fresh fruits, stewed, steamed, or canned: 


Apples 


Pears 


Berries 


Plums 


Peaches 


Etc. 



Cereals: 

Home-cooked (rice, oatmeal, etc.) 

Factory-cooked or prepared (such as com flakes and shredded wheat) 

lA brace signifies a menu; each line included in the brace signifies a course. 



DIET FOR ADULTS 231 

Protein foods (basis of protein-food course): 

Eggs (cooked as omelets or in various other forms) 

Fish, dried (mackerel, codfish balls, creamed codfish, finnan haddie, etc.) 

Fish, fresh 

Meat: 

Bacon (often served with eggs) 

Chops 

Frizzled beef (on toast) 

Ham (often served with eggs) 

Hash 

Liver (calf or beef) 

Meat balls 

Sausage 

Steak (small serving) 

Etc. 

Accompaniments {often omitted^, other than breadstuff Sy to protein foods: 
Saut^ed juicy foods (such as apples or tomatoes) 
Saut^ed starchy foods (such as potatoes, mush, or rice cakes) 
French toast 
Hominy or rice, boiled 
Potatoes (creamed, baked, etc.) 

Breadstuffs: 

Biscuits (baking-powder, etc.) 

Biscuits (so-called) prepared from wheat or other cereal flakes 

Bread, yeast or quick (white, brown, bran, com, etc.) 

Crackers 

Fritters (com, apple, etc.) 

Griddlecakes (wheat, com-meal, buckwheat, etc.) 

Mufl&ns, English 

Mufiins, or gems (bran, blueberry, com-meal, graham, oatmeal, wheat, 

whole-wheat, etc.) 
Popovers 
Rolls, bread 
Sweetstuffs (sometimes served at the end of the meal), such as: 

Drop cakes (ginger, honey, etc.) 

Cookies (bran, oatmeal, etc.) 

Doughnuts 

Sweet wafers and crackers 
Toast (plain or zwieback) 
Waffles 

Beverages (milk and cocoa have high protein value) 
Cereal beverages 

Cocoa (chocolate is usually considered too rich for breakfast) 
Coffee 
Milk 
Tea 



232 LESSONS IN COOKERY 

Sweet relishes (often served with toast, mufi&ns, or other breadsttifiO : 

Honey 

Jams 

JelHes 

Marmalades 

Preserves 

Sirups (such as maple) 
Breadstuffs are served hot for the most part. Two kinds of breadstuffs, such as toast 
and griddlecakes, are often served in a menu. Waffles, griddlecakes, or fritters are some- 
times served as a course by themselves. 

2. The following accompaniments are tmderstood in all of the menus: 

Cream and sugar accompany cereals and beverages. 
Butter accompanies most breadstuffs. 

A sweet relish (such as sirup or honey) or meat gravy accompanies waffles, 
griddlecakes, and fritters. 

3. The continental breakfast, a one-course meal, usually consists of one of the following: 

Rolls and cai6 au lait (very popular on the European continent) 
Rolls and tea (popular with many of the English) 

4. Note in the given menus the'evolution (by the addition of courses) of the more com- 
plex breakfast from the simple one-course breakfast. 

5. Let the pupil suggest other menus for one-, two-, and three-coiirse breakfasts. If 
desired, specify in each coiirse the name of the fniit, cereal, or other food served. Consider 
both cold-weather and hot-weather menus. 

TYPICAL LUNCHEON MENUSl 

As a rule, breadstuffs and other accompaniments are understood, if not specified in 
these menus; they are considered fully in Note 1. 
One-course luncheons: 

{Soup 

{Salad 

{ Light meat or fish (such as chops), potatoes, a second vegetable, light salad 

{ Meat entr^i Hght salad 

Two-course luncheon^ 

{Soup f Light meat or fish 

Dessert ^ Dessert 

{Salad f Meat entree 

Dessert I Dessert 

Three-course luncheons: 

IReHsh ( Soup f Meat entree 

Light meat or fish < Meat entree •< Salad 

Dessert ( Dessert ( Dessert 

Four-course luncheons: 

Relish I Soup 

Light meat or fish ) Meat entree 

Salad j Salad 

Dessert ( Dessert 

lA brace signifies a menu; each line (or section) included in the brace signifies a course. 



DIET FOR ADULTS 



233 



Eight-course luncheon: 



Relish, or appetizer (see pages 227-228) — one of the following: 

Fruit relish 

Raw oysters or dams 

Canap6 

Any of the larger hors d'oeuvres 
Soup (such as bouillon or consomm^) 
Entree, prepared from one of the following: 

Fish 

Poultry 

Meat 

Mushrooms 
Light meat, such as one of the following (a meat sauce, a relish, and one vege- 
table, such as peas with chops, may accompany the meat) : 

Fillet of beef 

Broiled fillet of chicken 

Lamb chops 

Chicken pie or other casserole dish 
Vegetable entree 
Salad 
Dessert 
Demi-tasse 



1. The following notes apply to luncheon menus in general, including the foregoing 
menus: 

a. Wafers, celery, and olives are usually understood in the soup course if not 

listed in the menu. 
h. Usual accompaniments to the heaviest course are as follows (note that the 
r heaviest course may be meat, salad, soup, or other dish) : 

Bread or rolls and butter 
Relish (such as pickles, jelly, or celery) 
Beverage (such as tea, coffee, cocoa, chocolate, or milk) 
A very light salad sometimes accompanies a meat or a meat-substitute course. 

c. Entries prepared from meat substitutes, such as the following, may be sub- 
stituted for meat entrees (escalloped and other casserole dishes are very 
popular) : 

Eggs 

Fish 

Cheese 

Beans (such as baked beans) 

d. Wafers or a simple sandwich (such as bread and butter) and cheese are 
usually understood in the salad course, if not listed in the menu. 

e. Relishes, such as almonds, celery, jelly, and olives, are an important part of 
menus (this is true of dinners as well as Itmcheons). 

Ltmcheon (as well as supper) soups are correctly served in bouillon, or two-handled, 
cups, except that iced soups (see list, page 227) are sometimes served in sherbet cups. 
At a formal luncheon a demi-tasse is served after the dessert. 



16 



234 LESSONS IN COOKERY 

2. Note in the given mentis the evolution (by the addition of courses, often unimportant 
ones) of complex limcheons from a simple one-course luncheon. 

3. Let the pupil suggest other menus for one-, two-, three-, and four-coiu-se luncheons. 
If desired, spedfy in each course the name of the relish, soup, or other food served. 

4. An eight-course, or formal, limcheon is similar to an eight-course dinner except that 
the heavy meat course is omitted, the soup is served in bouillon cups, and one or two other 
changes are made. 

5. Suppers are similar to informal luncheons. Both suppers and Itmcheons are lighter 
meals than dinners, and both offer fine opportimity for the use of left-overs. The following 
is a menu for a typical family supper: 

Cream soup (often omitted) 

Light meat or a meat-substitute course (usually hot), such as: 

Meat (cold-sliced meat, dishes prepared from left-over meat, etc.) 

Fish (dishes prepared from left-over fish) 

Eggs 

Cheese (macaroni and cheese, cheese fondue, etc.) 

Dried legtimes (beans or peas) 
Simple dessert, usually some form of sweets (such as fresh, stewed, or preserved 
fruit, accompanied by cookies or ginger or other cake) 

The following are the usual accompaniments to the main protein food served at supper: 
Potatoes in almost any form (mashed not usual) 
Bread and butter or other breadstuff 
Relish 
Beverage (milk, cocoa, or tea) 

Escalloped dishes of all kinds are a convenient t3rpe of supper dish. Members of the 
complete-dish series (see Food Economy j pages 43-104) are also useful. 

TYPICAL DINNER MENUSi 

As a rule, breadstuffs and other accompaniments are understood, if not specified in 
these menus; they are considered fully in Note 1. 

One-course dinner : 

{ Protein food (accompanied or not by salad) 

Two-course dinners: 

j Soup j Protein food j Relish 

( Protein food ( Dessert | Protein food 

Three-course dinners: 

i Soup i Relish i Protein food 

j Protein food \ Protein food -J Salad 

( Dessert ( Dessert ( Dessert 

Four-course dinners: 

1 Relish ( Soup 

Protein food | Fish 

Salad ) Main protein food (meat, accompanied by salad) 

Dessert ( Dessert 

lA brace signifies a menu; each line (or section) included in the brace signifies a course. 



DIET FOR ADULTS 236 

Five-course dinners: 

Relish / Soup 

I Soup \ Fish 

Meat < Main protein food (meat) 

' Salad / Salad 

Dessert \ Dessert 

Ten-course dinner^ or banquet: 

f Relish, or appetizer — choice of one, sometimes two, of the following (two 
separate relish courses are often served): 
Fruit relish 
Raw oysters or clams 
Canap6 (such as caviare or cheese) 
Soup 
Fish 

Meat entree (such as sweetbreads on toast) 
Meat (heaviest course of the meal) 
Vegetable entr6e (such as stuffed tomatoes) 
Sherbet 

Game. Green salad 
Dessert 

Demi-tasse. Crackers and cheese 
Notti: 

1. The following notes apply to dinner menus in general, including the foregoing menus : 

a. Crackers or a substitute, and often celery and olives, are tmderstood in the 
soup course if not listed in the menu. 

b. Olives or celery usually are imderstood in fish course if not listed in menu. 

c. The main protein-food course consists of a hot meat or a substitute, accom- 
panied, as a rule, by all of the following (see Food Economy ^ page 49, Note 5) : 

One hot starchy vegetable (usually white or sweet potatoes) or one of the 
following hot substitutes: 

Cereal (such as rice, hominy, or pearl barley) 

Flour paste (macaroni, spaghetti, etc.) 

Chestnuts, boiled or roasted 

Bananas (baked, saut6ed, etc.) 
One or two hot succulent, or juicy, vegetables, such as: 

Greens (spinach, beet tops, etc.) 

Green com 

String beans 
Bread and butter 
One or two relishes, such as: 

Celery Olives or other pickles 

Jelly or marmalade Radishes 

Nuts, salted (such as almonds) 
A light salad sometimes accompanies the main protein-food course, often 
taking the place of a hot succulent vegetable. 

d. Wafers or a simple sandwich (such as bread and butter) and cheese usually 
are stated or understood in the salad course. 



236 



LESSONS IN COOKERY 



e. A beverage, served, as desired, at any of the following times, is understood if 
not listed in each menu: 

With main protein-food course (informal) 
With dessert 

After dessert (formal; usually demi-tasse) 
Coffee or tea is the usual dinner beverage, although cereal beverage, milk, 
cocoa, or chocolate is sometimes served at an informal dinner. 

2. Note in the given menus the evolution (by the addition of courses, often unimportant 
ones) of complex dinners from a simple one-course dinner. A dinner of several courses is 
called a formal dinner. 

3. Let the pupil suggest other menus for one-, two-, three-, four-, and five-course dinners. 
If desired, specify in each course the name of the relish, soup, or other* food served, as in the 
following typical dinner menus: 



Clear soup 




Bread sticks 


Roast bee 


Potatoes 


Spinach 


Olives 




Bread 


Lettuce salad 


Lemon jelly 
Coffee 


Wafers 




Little neck clams 




Olives 


Crackers 


Celery 


Bisque-of -tomato 




Pulled bread 


Broiled tenderloin steak 




B6amaise sauce 


Potato souffle 




Creamed cauliflower 


Cress salad 


Peach charlotte 
Coffee 


Cheese straws 



Olives 



French peas 



Amber soup 

Broiled salmon steak, maitre d'h6tel sauce 
Roast turkey cranberry jelly 

Mashed potato 

Nut salad 

Cheese straws 

Imperial charlotte 

Coffee 



Almonds 



Escalloped parsnips 



Ginger 



Let the pupil count the ntimber of courses in each of the three foregoing menus. And 
note the form in which the menus are written. 

4. A dinner of many courses, as it is usually served, is poor in that it has more thaix one 
heavy course, and does not pass the diagram test. However, it is possible for a truly expert 
chef to plan a banquet menu so that it is correct dietetically. 



DIET FOR ADULTS 



237 



Let the pupil prepare a menu for a ten-course dinner (stating roughly the quantities 
in each serving), then treat it as follows: 

a. Submit it to the diagram test, page 225. 

h. Designate which of the courses are essential and which nonessential. 

5. A good dinner, Uke a good story, has a climax; for example, some attractive looking 
dish for dessert. 

6. Let the pupil show that various dinner menus can be prepared from a given list of 
ingredients, such as: 

Beef Flour, etc., for breadstuffs 

Potatoes Pickles 

Cabbage Apples 

Lettuce Coffee 

Plan four three-coiirse dinner menus, using the above ingredients (in the form of any 
recipes desired) as the basis of each menu. 

As an additional exercise, state the quantities of ingredients required to serv6 each 
menu to a group of six persons, then list the menus in sequence according (a) to theij 
approximate cost, and {h) to the labor involved in their preparation. 

BALANCE, VARIETY, HARMONY, AND CONTRAST IN MENUS 
BALANCE OF FOODSTUFFS IN MENUS 

This exercise aims to demonstrate the necessity of balance of foodstuffs in menus. 
Let the pupil criticize and, if necessary, revise the menus given in the left-hand column. 



Breakfast Menu 


Criticism 


Revised Menu 


Hominy and sliced bananas 

Griddlecakes and sirup 

Coffee 






Luncheon Menu 


Criticism 


Revised Menu 


Cream-of -potato soup 

Creamed chicken 

Sweet potatoes 

Muffins 
Farina pudding 






Bacon 

Sauted potatoes 

Beet salad with mayonnaise 

Ice cream 

Doughnuts 

Chocolate 







238 



LESSONS IN COOKERY 



Luncheon Menu 


Criticism 


Revised Menu 


Baked beans with brown bread 
Cheese so\iSL6 

MUk 
Floating island 






Lamb chops 

Creamed potatoes 

Hominy 

Rice pudding 






Dinner Menu 

• 


Criticism 


Revised Menu 


Lentil soup 

Roast of beef 

Rice baked with cheese 

Baked custard 






Casserole of rice and meat 

Mashed potatoes 

Macaroni (no cheese) 

Chocolate cornstarch pudding 






Pot roast of beef 
Baked beans 

Potatoes 
Custard pie 






Veal cutlets 

Boiled white potatoes 

Baked sweet potatoes 

Lettuce 

Bread pudding 







Note: 



Consider only the following foodstuffs in studying balance in the foregoing menus: 
Protein 

Starch and sugar I , . r r j . /r 

_ ^ >• chief energy foodstuffs 

rats ) 



DIET FOR ADULTS 
VARIETT OF FOODS IN MENUS 



239 



Tbis exercise aims to show the necessity of lack of repetition in menus. 
In supplying data for the following table, let the pupil criticize the menus from the 
standpoint of variety. 



Luncheon Menu 


Criticism 


Revised Menu 


Cream-of -tomato soup 


Tomatoes are served in two 




Wafers 


courses. 




Steak Baked potatoes 






Tomato salad 






Pie 






Cream-of-spinach soup 






Wafers 






Fish Creamed potatoes 






Sliced cucumbers 






Fresh fruit 






Chicken broth 






Chicken croquettes 






Escalloped potatoes 






Asparagus salad 






Fruit shortcake 







HARMONY OF FOODS IN MENUS 

This exercise aims to show the necessity of correct combination of dishes in mentis. 
Let the pupil state examples of food combinations according to the following headings: 



Harmonious CombinatioiIs 


Inharmonious Combinations 




Sour pickles with bread and milk 



Note: 

Each course in a meal should constitute a harmonious combination with regard to color, 
flavor, form, texture, and temperature, and should be correct from the standpoint of 
digestion. 



240 



LESSONS IN COOKERY 



CONTRAST OF FOODS IN MENUS 

This exercise aims to show the value of contrast of foods in mentis. 

Let the pupil enter the following and other contrasts in the given table: 

Crisp wafers or croutons with cream soups 

Sour sauce or relish with fish 

Cranberry sauce with chicken or turkey 

Apple sauce with pork or goose 

Dry* vegetables with stew and other moist meat dishes 

Creamed potatoes and a second vegetable which is dry with a dry* meat (avoid 
gravies and cream sauces other than sauce used in creamed potatoes) 

Interior of croquettes creamy, crust crisp 

Creamed dishes (such as fish) with buttered crumbs on top and baked until crisp 

Tomato sauce with spaghetti 

Cream cheese with head lettuce 

Salad (cold), dessert (hot) 

Hot chocolate sauce with ice cream 

Acid sauces with rich puddings 

Plain cakes (angel and sponge cakes, etc.) with rich desserts, such as ice creams 
containing whipped cream; avoid rich cakes 

Cheese with crackers 



Contrasts 


Examples of Such Contrasts 


Strong-flavored versus mild-flavored. . 
Sour versus sweet 






Pkdn versus rich 




Hot versus cold 




CrisD versus soft 




Drv Tnot criso) versus moist 




Concentrated versus dilute 









^The term dry as applied here to vegetables and meats means absence of sauce, at least in 
any quantity. 



DIET, FOR ADULTS 241 

SETTING A TABLE "COVER" i 

1. Plate: This marks the center of the cover. 

2. Knife or knives: At right of plate with the sharp edges toward the plate. (Exception: 
butter spreader, which is laid across the farther side of or beside the bread and butter plate.) 

3. Fork or forks: At left of plate. (Exception: oyster fork, which is placed at right of 
all knives and spoons at right of cover and preferably parallel to them. 

4. Spoon or spoons of all kinds at right of plate, with the following exceptions: 

a. Teaspoons are sometimes placed on the table above the plate, with the handles 
to the right. 

b. Some of the spoons, especially the small dessert sizes, are sometimes brought 
on with their respective courses. 

5. Tumbler or goblet: At tip of largest knife. 

6. Bread and butter plate: A little to the left of the. tip of the forks. 

7. Cup and saucer: At right of all the cover equipment and 6*^- 7" from the edge of 
table. The cup handle should be turned slightly toward the guest, but should be at 
almost a right angle to the knives. 

8. Individual salt and pepper: On the table above the plate, or between two "covers." 

9. Finger bowl: In center of cover, as a rule; sometimes at left of cover. 

10. Napkin: Usually at left of forks, with the open (monogram) comer to the right 
and toward edge of table. The napkin is sometimes placed in center of cover; for example, 
on the service plate when the latter is not otherwise used. 

11. Place-card and menu card: On napkin, as a rule. 

Nota: 

1. A service plate is a large (about 10"'), handsome plate, placed in the center of each 
cover before the meal is announced. In general, it is used or not as follows: 

a. Used under relishes and soup 

b. Not used under heavy meat course 

c. Sometimes returned for entree which follows the meat course 

d. Not used under salad and desserts 

2. Note choice of positions for the salad plate: 

In center of cover 

At left, or at right occasionally, of the plate in center of cover (when salad is 
served with the main course) 

3. The best scheme for silver is to arrange it in sequence according to use, placing farthest 
from the plate the piece which is to be used first. In many cases the spoons will thus fall 
at the right of knives. 

Silver is laid with the ends of handles in a straight line with the edges of plate and napkin, 
and l"' from edge of table. Why? 

As a rule, avoid more than five or six pieces of silver in setting a cover. 

4. Each of the following should be placed right side up on the table: 

Tines of forks 

Bowls of spoons 

All china and glassware (such as plates and goblets) 

lA cover is the space (about 22'-30' wide and 15'-16' deep) with its china, glassware, 
silver, and linen allowed each person at the dining table. 



242 



LESSONS IN COOKERY 



5. One or both of the following, according to the polish of the table, should be spread 
under the tablecloth (the silence cloth by itself is usually sufficient) : 

Pad (such as asbestos or oilcloth) 
Silence cloth (such as felt or heavy cotton flannel) 
The pad and the cloth protect the table, deaden sounds, and give a better appearance 
to the linen. 

6. The table cloth should suspend about lO" over the ends and sides of the table. 
Doilies with pads underneath or table nmners are often used as substitutes for a tablecloth 
at breakfast, luncheon, supper, or an informal family dinner. 

7. Pupil problem: A stmmiary of the foregoing outline on the setting of a table cover: 
Let the pupil list plates, silver, and other cover equipment according to the positions 

mentioned in the headings of the table below: 





Center of Table 

Cover (on or 
off service plate) 


To Right of 
Plate 


To Left of 
Plate 


On Table above 
Plate 


Always 










Occasionally 




' 







8. Pupil problem: Let the pupil diagram table covers as follows, after filling in the 
blank spaces in the lists at the right of the illustrations (in each diagram specify the 
course under discussion) : 

Page 244: A cover for each of three home (informal) meals, breakfast, luncheon, 

and dinner. 
Page 245: A cover each for a formal limcheon and a formal dinner. 
Use the foregoing outline as a guide; also standard books on serving. 



PASSING, PLACING, AND CLEARING OF DISHES 

To the lejtfor all table service^ is the simplest and least confusing rule; that is, the waitress 
in performing all of the following processes stands at the left of the person who is being served. 
(Exceptions: Beverages, salads occasionally, and also any silver or other equipment which 
belongs to the right of plate are placed and removed from the right.) The waitress stands 
at the left of the person who is being served, whether she is passing a dish from which he is 
to help himself, or setting down or removing a plate, tmless the article belongs to the right 
of the plate, such as a cup, glass, or spoon. 

I. Passing: Method of serving whereby the guest is allowed to choose or to help himself. 
Food is always passed to the left of guest (thus enabling the guest to use his right hand 
easily). . * ' . 

II. Placing: Method of serving whereby the waitress places, the food in front of the 
person being served. 

iSome authorities disagree with this rule. 



DIET FOR ADULTS 243 

III. Clearing: Remove equipment and crumbs in the sequence in which listed (silver 
and cutlery should not be separated from the dishes in which they have been used). 

1. General equipment: 

a. Large dishes (platter, vegetable dishes, etc.) 

b. Smaller equipment (bread plate, pickle and jelly dishes, etc.) 

2. Individual equipment from covers (plates, silver, salts, peppers, etc.) 

3. Crumbs: Remove crumbs (from the left) before dessert, and between other 
courses if necessary. Brush the crumbs with a folded napkin to a clean plate 
(a crumb scraper is occasionally preferred.) 

Notes: 

1. Miscellaneous directions for the waitress: 

a. See that the person being served is made comfortable, and always with the 
idea of kindness. Remember that no work is menial tmless it is naade so. 

b. Note the following requisites for a good waitress: 

Neatness and order 

Speed, but not hurry 

Quietness (talk as little as possible; wear rubber heels) 

c. Stand as erect as possible, hold tray level and low, and stand as nearly back 
of the person being served as convenient. 

d. Stand at left of person serving (usually host or hostess) in order to receive 
fresh dishes of food or to have dishes refilled. 

e. Both in serving and in removing dishes, if desired, use in place of a tray a 
folded napkin laid on the palm of left hand. . 

/. In clearing the table, never pile dishes one on another on the tray or serving 
• wagon or elsewhere in the dining-room. Much clatter is avoided in this way. 

g. Place chairs just to the edge of table, not under the table. 

A. Three-quarters fill the water glass and supply butter just before the meal is 
announced. See that the water glass is kept three-quarters filled throughout 
the meal (as a rule, fill it before each course), butter, bread, and rolls always 
supplied without being asked for, and other things at hand as needed. Serve 
cold foods cold and hot foods hot, serving them respectively on chilled and 
heated dishes. 

i. When dinner is ready announce that "dinner is served." Annotmce other 
meals in a similar way. 

j. Serve first the hostess or the woman guest of honor (the woman guest of 
honor is seated at the right of host; the man guest of honor at the right of 
hostess) ; the hostess is usually served first. Then serve the next person to 
the right aroimd the table in succession, whether a man or a woman. 

2. Note the three forms of service commonly in use to-day (let the pupil secure a defini- 
tion of each of these from standard books on serving) : 

English 
Russian 
Compromise 




Cover for a Simple Breakfast 




Cover for a Simple Luncheon 




Cover for a Simple Dinner 
244 



1. Plate 

2 

3. Knife 

4. Fork 

6. Spoon 

6. Butter spreader 

7 

8 

9. Tumbler 

10 

11. Bread and butter 

plate 

12. Napkin 

13 

14 

15 

1. Plate 

2 

3. Knife 

4. Fork 

6. Spoon 

6. Butter spreader. ... . 

7 

8 

9. Tumbler 

10 

11. Bread and butter 

plate 

12. Napkin 

13 

14 

15 




Cover for a Formal Luncheon 




Cover for a Formal Dinner 




A Simple Breakfast Tray 
(Useful for invalids as well as normal adtilts) 

245 



1. Plate 

2. Dish of food (such 

as fruit or cereal) 

3. Knife 

4. Fork 

5. Spoon 

6. Butter spreader 

7. Cup and saucer 

8. Individual creamer 

and sugar 

9. Tumbler 

10. Individual salt and 

pepper 

11. Bread and butter 

plate 

12. Napkin 

13. Flower 



246 



LESSONS IN COOKERY 



STUDY OF GOOD TABLE MANNERS 

The basis of good manners is a feeling for the comfort of other persons. 
Pupil to state an important "do" or "don't" in regard to each of the points in the 
following table: 



"Do" OR "Don't" at Table 



7. 
8. 

9. 
10. 

11. 

12. 
13. 

14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 

19. 

20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24, 



Use of soup spoon 

Use of soup plate or cup 

Use of knife 

Use of fork 

Place for knife and fork when plate is 
passed for a second serving 

Place for tea or coffee spoon when not 

in use 

Spreading of bread 

Holding of goblet or glass of water or 
pitcher 

Foods which may be taken in the fingers . . 

Quantity of meat on the plate which may 
be cut by the individual at one time 

Shifting and piling of dishes by the guest 
or waitress 

Signal that person has finished a course . . . 

Reaching for dishes at a distance on the 
table 

Passing dishes across or aroimd the table . 

Speed with which food is eaten 

Mastication 

Remarks on the food served 



Sneezing or coughing while person is 
seated at the table 



Place for the hands when person is not 
eating 

Elbows and forearms 

Use of napkin during meal 

Care of napkin at end of meal 

Finger bowls '. 

Toothpicks 



THE INDEX 



Abbreviations, table of, 7 

Acid foods, use of, with fish, 134, n. 3, 135, n. 4 

Air as a leavening agent, 203, [proldem] 204, 

[problem] 205 
Albumin, viscosity of, 203 
Almonds, preparation of, 63, n. 6 
Angel cake, 192 

analogy to sponge cake, 190, n. 3 

mock, 193 

with whip, 197, n. 7 
Angel cakes, 189, 192-193 

temperatures for, 8, 189 
Angel food: see Angel cake 
Apple cake, Dutch, 70 
Apple fritters, 96, n. 2 
Apple pie: 

one-crust, 85, n. 6 

temperature for, 84 

two-crust, 84 
Apples, saut^ed, 16 
Apple-sauce cake, 58 
Apple strudel, 79-80 
Apple whip, 196, n. 4, 197, n. 1 
Arrowroot, substitutes for, 126, n. 8 
Ash cake, 83, n. 4 
Asparagus: 

broth, 129 

on toast, 149 

salad, 178 

sauce, 149 
Aspic jelly, 133, n^ 3 

Bacon, saut^ed: 

with egg, 21 

with liver, 19 
Baking of flour mixtures, 40, n. 13 
Banana whip, 197, n. 2 
Barley flour: 

preparation of, for breads, 38, n. 6 

use of, in biscuits, 67, n. 6 

use of, in sponge cake, 191, n. 7 
Basting, directions for, 27, n. 4 
Batters: 

breakfast recipes, 42-49 

for coatings, 97 

for fritters, 95, 97 

guides for making, 37, nn. 1, 2 



proportions for, 36, 37, n. 2 

puddings, 50, 51 
Bavarian creams, 201, n. 5 
Beans: 

dried, boiled, 105 

string beans with bacon, 151 
Beef: 

accompaniments of [problem], 35 

oven-roasted: 

general method for, 26 
temperatures for, 8, 26 
Beets: 

baked, 150 

boiled, 150 
Beverages: 

for hearty diet, 111-113 

for light diet, 209-212 
Biscuit dough: 

derivatives of, 68, n. 7, 69 

manipulation of, 38, n. 4 
Biscuits: 

baking-powder and their derivatives, 66-76 
temperatures for, 8 

characteristics of good, 67, n. 5 

drop, 66, n. 3, 67, n. 6 

roll, 66, 67, n. 6 

savory, 68, n. 7 

soda, 68, n. 6, c 

variations in, 67, n. 6 
Bohemian cream, 201 
Bonbons, 101, n. 4 
Bouillon, tomato, 128 
Bread {see also Doughs) : 

hard-tack, 82 

stale: see Left-overs 

temperatures for, 8 

unleavened, 82, 83 
Bread dough: 

proportions for, 36 

variations in, 69 
Breakfast cereal, saut^ed, 16 
Breakfast menus, 141, 230, 237 

for camp, 17, 20 

for hearty diet, 17, 20 

for light diet, 141 

with caloric value of, 218 
Breakfast recipes, 42-49 



15 



247 



248 



THE INDEX 



Broiling: 

general method for, 22-23 

principles of [prohlem]^ 2A 
Broth: 

asparagus, 129 

iced, 131 
Brown gravy, 29, n. 4 
Butter-making, temperature for, 8 
Buttermilk, use of, in batters, 39, n. 7 

Cabbage: 
boiled, 149 

boiling of, 145, 150, n. 3 
food value of, 150, n. 4 
salad, 160 
Cake: 
angel, 189, 192 

mock, 193 

temperature for, 8 
apple, Dutch, 70 
apple-sauce, 58 
containing fat, 52-59 
derivatives of, 52, n., 53, n. 3 
devil's food, 53 
fruit, camp, 58 
garnishes for, 62 
methods of preparing fat-containing cake, 

55-57 
mock devil's food, 59 
plain, 52 
poimd, 54 
rich, 53 
sponge, 189, 190 

derivatives of, 190, n. 4 

mock, 191 

temperatures for, 8, 190 
Cake-making, bibliography on, 57, n. 5 
Cakes: 
angel and sponge cakes, 189-193 
classification of, 52 
containing fat, 52-59 
economical, 58-59 
for hearty diet, 52-59 
for light diet, 189-193 
griddle-: see Batters 
plain, manipulation of, 38, n. 4 
rich, manipulation of, 38, n. 4 
rule for baking, 40, n. 13 
small, 55, n. 4 
temperatures for, 8 
Caloric value: 
of foods, 215-217 
of specific menus, 218-220 



Calorie: 
requirements, 3-10 
daily, 5, n. 1 
factors governing, 3, 4 
for hearty diet, 5, n. 1 
for light diet, 5, n. 1 
unit of value of, 3 
yield: 
from carbohydrates, 3 • 
from fats, 3 
from proteins, 3 
Calorie portions: see 100-calorie portions 
Camp cooking: 
breadstuffs for, 83 
drop biscuits, 66, n. 3 
fruit cake, 58 
milk useful for, 39, n. 7 
Camp menus: 
breakfast, 17, 20 
dinner, 105, 107 
lunch, 13, 83, n. 2 
Candies, 99-103 
classification of, 99, 100 
fondant: 
derivatives, 102, nn. 5-7 
temperature for sirup, 8 
temperatures, various, 8, 99, 100 
white fondant, 102 
sirups used for, 103, nn. 2-4 
temperatures of sirups, 102 
Caramel sauce, 77 
Carbohydrate foods: 
energy yielded by, 3 
for hearty diet, 13-16, 36-97, 99-103, 110, 

115-116 
for Hght diet, 121-124, 14^154, 167-173, 

185-193, 206-207 
saut^ed, 13-16 
used for drying, 104 
Carbohydrates, foods rich in, 6 
Carbon dioxide as leavening agent, 203, 

[problem] 204, [problem] 205 
Carrots with bacon, 151, n. 
Carving chicken, directions for, 32-33 
Celery root salad, 172, n. 4 
Cereals: 
breakfast, sauted, 13, 16 
left-over: see Left-overs 
used for croquettes, 89, n. 1 
Cheese: 

making of, temperatures for, 8 
serving of, 165, n. 
uses of, in diet, 175 



THE INDEX 



249 



Cheese balls, fried, 98 

Cheese crackers, 165 

Cheese fondue, 137, 138 

Cheese molds, 178 

Cheese salads, combinations for, 175 

Cheese sandwiches, 114, 116, n. 5 

Cheese straws, 166 

Cheese toast, 165 

Chestnut salad, 172, 177, n. 1. 

Chicken {see also Poultry) : 

carving, directions for, 32, 33 

dressing, directions for, 30 

fried, 18, n. 2 

roasting, directions for, 32 

saut^ed, 18 

stufl&ng, directions for, 31 

trussing, directions for, 31 
Chicken jelly, 131 

Chicken salads, combinations for, 174 
Chocolate coatings, suggestions for, 102, n. 5 
Chops, broiling of: see Broiling, general method 
Chowder: 

com, 153 

potato, 154 

vegetable, mixed, 153 
Coatings for fried protein foods: see Batters; 

see also various fried protein foods 
Cobbler, 74 

batter for, 69, n. 1 

fruit, 52, n. 1 
Coffee: 

boiled, 111 

filtered, 112 

percolated. 111 
Combination vegetable salad, 162 
Complete-dish salads, 155, 177-179 

combinations for, 179 
Complete-dish suggestions, 115, 177-179, 202, 

n. 3 
Cones, 72 
Cookies: 

rule for baking, 40, n. 13 

sugar: 

sour-cream, 65 
sweet-milk, 64 

temperatures for, 64, 65 

variations in, 64, n. 1 
Cooking, methods of [problem], 9 
Com, sweet, on cob, 148 
Com bread: 

sour-milk, 48 

southern spoon, 49 

sweet-milk, 49 



temperatures for, 48, 49 

unleavened, 82 

variations in, 48, n. 8 
Com chowder, 153 
Com dodgers, 82 

additions to, 83, n. 1 
Com flour, use of, 191, n. 7 
Com meal: 

methods of using, 38, n. 6 

proportions of, for muffins, 48, n. 8 
Com oil, use of, 92, n. 4 
Com pone, 83, n. 4 
Com sirup for sweetening, 40, n. 11 
Cornucopias, 72 
Cottage cheese: 

how served, 175, n. 2 

in salads, 175 
Crackers: 

cheese, 165 

rule for baking, 40, n. 13 
Cranberry ice, 206 
Cream: 

Bavarian, 201, n. 5 

Bohemian, 201 

whipping of, temperatures for, 8 
Cream cheese, uses of, 175, n. 2 
Cream puffs, 186-188 
Cream whip, 200-201 

accompaniments of, 201, nn. 2-4 
Crescent roll: see Roly-poly 
Croquettes: 

accompaniments of, 90, n. 3 

starchy: 
sweetened, 89 
unsweetened, 88 
Crumbs {see also various saut^ed foods), uses 

of, 23, n. 3, 31, n. 1, 90, n. 1, 137, n. 2 
Cucumber salad, 163 
Cucumbers on toast, 149, n. 1 
Cup cake: see Cake, rich 
Currant ice, 206 

Custard filling for cream puffs, 188 
Cutlets, veal, 23, n. 2 

breaded, 23 

Daisy salad, 176 

Dehydrated .foods: see Dried foods 

Desserts, 185-208 

for hearty diet, 50-65, 69-81, 84-87, 89, 92, 
94,95 

for light diet, 185-208 

fruit, 69-81 

garnishes for, 62 



17 



250 



THE INDEX 



Devil's food, 63 

Diet: see Hearty diet; Light diet 

Dinner menus, 22, 26, 34, 134, 234-236, 238 

for camp, 105, 107 

for hearty diet, 22, 26, 34, 105, 107 

for hot weather, 121 

for light diet, 121, 134 

with caloric values of, 219, 220 
Dips: 

for fried meats, 18, n. 3 

for saut^ed pork, 21, n. 2 

for veal chops, 23 
Double boiler, temperature in, 8 
Dough: 

drop, 66, n. 3, 67, n. 6, h 

roll, 66 
Doughnuts, 92 
Doughs, 64-87 

proportions for, 36, 37, n. 2 
Dried foods, 104-110 

boiled legumes, 105-106 

classification of, 104 

dried-legume soups, 107-109 

miscellaneous recipes, 110 
Dried-fruit jelly, 110 
Dried-fruit pie, 110 
Drop biscuits, 66, n. 3 

dough, for fungy, 75 
Dumplings, 71 

fruit, steaming, 72, n. 4 

savory, 72, n. 5 
Dutch apple cake, 70 

Eggless cake: see Apple-sauce cake; Camp 
fruit cake 



as substitute, 39, n. 9 

dried, scrambled, 110 

for flour mixtures, treatment of, 39, n. 8, 46, 
n. 1 

for griddlecakes, treatment of, 43, n. 2 

for rich cake, treatment of, 53, n. 1 

saut^ed, 21 

substitute for, 39, n. 7 
Egg salads, 176 
Egg sandwiches, 114, 115, n. 4 
Elderberry flowers, fried, 96, n. 3 
Energy: 

nutrients furnishing, 3 

requirements, daily, 5, n. 1 

factors governing, 3, 4 
Entries, 229 
Envelope roll: see Roly-poly 



Fat equivalents, 40, n. 10 
Fats: 

energy yielded by, 3 

for hearty diet,' 20-21 

for Hght diet, 164, 200 

proportions for pie crust, 86, n. 1 

temperatures: 
for frying, 8, 91, n. 3, 93, n. 4 
for saut^g, 20, n. 2 

treatment of batter containing, 55 

used for cake, 52 

use of, for saut^ing, 43, n. 4 
Fillings: 

custard for cream puffs, 188 

for sandwiches: see Sandwich fillings 
Fish: 

accompaniments of {problem], 35 

baked, 28, n. 8 

broiled, 134 

for hearty diet, 97-98 

for Hght diet, 134-137, 174 

fried, 97 

garnishes for, 134 

salt, preparation of, 17, n. 

saut^ed, 17 
Fish pies, 74, n. 3 
Fish salads, 174 
Fish sandwiches, 115 and n. 6 
Flavor: 

in steak, development of, 22 

of meats, retention of, 26, n. 1 
Float, fruit, 196, n. 6 
Flour: 

for pie crust, proportions of, 87, n. 2 

measuring, 37, n. 3 

pastry, substitutes for, 193, n. 2 
Flour mixtures: 

baking, rules for, 40, n. 13 

batters, 42-63 

blending of [problem], 38, n. 5 

classification, 36-41 

doughs, 64-87 

for hearty diet, 72-87, 92-97 

for light diet, 189-193 

for saut^ing, 13 
Flour pastes for croquettes, 89, n. 1 
Flours, use of, in muffins, 48, n. 7 
Fondant: 

forms of, 101, n. 2 

types of, 101 

uses of, 101 

white, 102 
Franconia potatoes, 28 



THE INDEX 



251 



Freezing of ices: 

class method, 207, n. 8 

temperatures for, 8 
French dressing, 164 

uses of, 165, n. 4 

variations in, 164, n. 1 
Fried foods: 

cooked, 88-90 

uncooked, 91-98 
Fritter batters, 95 

classification of, 97 

maniptdation of, 38, n. 4 

various foods fried in, 96 
Fritters, apple, 96, n. 2 
Frosting: 

boiled, 60-63 
temperatures for, 8, 60 and n. 1 

testing sirup for, 61, n. 4 

variations in, 61, nn. 3, 6 

White Mountain cream, 62 
Fruit, dried, for whip, 197, n. 3 
Fruitades, 209, 210, nn. 1-4 
Fruit beverages, classification of, 209 
Fruit cake, camp, 58 
Fruit cups, 122, n. 5 
Fruit desserts: 

for hearty diet, 69-81, 84-87 

for Hght diet, 194r-201, 206-207 
Fruit fillings for sandwiches, 115, 116, n. 8 
Fruit float, 196, n. 6 
Fruit pies, 84-87 
Fruit relishes, 121-124 

combinations for, 121-122 

garnishes for, 123 

preparation of, 123 

serving of, 124, nn. 1, 2 

sweetening agents for, 124, n. 3 
Fruits: 

for saut^ing, 13 

fried in batter, 96 

left-over, uses for, 71, n. 1 

used for drying, 104 
Fruit salads: 

additions to, 170 

combinations for, 169 

dressings for, 170, 183 

fruits used for, 169 

sandwiches served with, 170 
Fruit soups: 

accompaniments of, 125 

fruits used for, 126, n. 1 

garnishes for, 125 

uses of, in diet, 127, n. 6 



Fruit-vinegar beverage, 210 
Fruit whips, 194-201 
Fudge sauce, hot-, 78, n. 6 
Fudges, varieties of, 102, n. 7 
Fungy, 74 

Game: see various directions for chicken 
Garnishes: 

for beans, boiled, 105 

for cakes, 62 

for desserts, 62, [problem] 63, n. 3 

for fish, 134 

for ices, 207 

for meats, broiled, 22 

for omelet, 142 

for oven roasts, 26 

for puddings, 62 

for sandwiches, 117 

for souffles, 137 

for whip, 201 

salad: 

classification of, 158 
preparation of, 158, nn. 3, 4 
selection of, 158, nn. 1, 2, 5, 6 

suggestions for, 63, n. 5 
Gelatin, viscosity of, 203 
Gelatin- jelly salads, types of, 160 
General information, 7-10 
Ginger ice, 206, 207, n. 4 
Glaze, 133, n. 3 

Glucose, uses of, in fondant, 103, nn. 2-4 
Gluten, viscosity of, 38, n. 4, 203 
Goose, roast: see various directions for chicken 
Graham muffins, fried, 93 
Grapefruit, preparation of, 122, n. 6 
Grapefruit salad, 162 
Gravy: 

for roast meat, 28-29 

for saut^ed pork, 21 
Greens, salad, 157 
Griddlecakes: 

accompaniments of, 43 

batter for, variations in, 44, n. 8 

corn-meal, 45 

sour-milk, 42 

sweet-milk, 42 

use of baking powder in, 39, n. 7 

Ham: 

broiled, 22 

saut^ed, 21 
Hard sauce, 76 

variations in, 77, nn. 1-4 



252 



THE INDEX 



Hard-tack, 82 

Hash: see Lyoimaise potatoes; Onions, sautded 

Hearty diet, 11-118 

foods for, 6 
Heat (see also Energy) : 

effect of, on afo-ated foods, 204, n. 1 

retained in cooked meats, 19, n. 4 
Hollandaise sauce, 135 
Honey: 

advantage of, 77, n. 2 

equivalents of, 40, n. 11 
Hors d'oeuvres, 227 
Hot weather, safety rules for, 138 

Iced broth: see Broth 
Ices, 206-207 

class method of freezing, 207, n. 8 

temperatures for, 8 

types of [problem], 208 

various flavors, 206 

JeUy: 

chicken, 131 

dried-fruit, 110 

meat, 130 
Jelly roll (see also Roly-poly), 190, n. 4 

of griddlecakes, 45, n. 10 
Juices, meat, retention of, 22, 23, nn. 3, 5, 27, 
n. 5, 34, n. 2 

Kaffir pone, 83, n. 4 

Lady fingers, 190, n. 4 

with whip, 197, n. 7 
Lamb, oven-roasted, 26 
Leavening agents, 203-205 

aeration, effects of, 203, 205, n. 6 

effect of heat upon, 204, n. 

relation of, to viscous substances {problem], 
205 

used in breads [problem], 204 
Left-overs: 

bacon ends, 105, n. 1 

bread, stale, 166, nn. 1, 2 

cereals, 14, nn. 4, 5, 137, n. 2, 138, n. 1 
sautded, 16 

crumbs: see Crumbs 

dressings, 14, n. 6 

fats, 20, n. 4, 6, 22, 28, n. 1, 40, n. 10 

fish, 14, n. 6 

for Lyonnaise potatoes, 15 

for souffles, 137, n. 1, 202, n. 2 



fruit juice, 207, n. 8 

fruits, 71, n. 1 

gravy, 14, n. 6 

ham ends, 105, n. 1 

jelly, 199, n. 4 

meats, 14, n. 5, 142 

pork, salt, 105, n. 1 

potatoes, 15 
mashed, 14, 67, n. 6 

preservation of, 139 

rice, 129, n., 177, n. 2 

rice water, 129, n. 

used for omelets, 142-143 

vegetables, 14, n. 5, 15, n. 2, 129, n. 

vegetable water, 145 
Legtmie, dried-, salads, combinations for, 176 
Legtmie powder, soup of, 108 
Legumes: 

boiled, 105-106 

creamed, 105, n. 4 

occupations governing use of, 106, n. 9 

used for soups, 107, n. 2 
Legtmie soups: 

seasonings used in, 109, n. 3 

various ingredients for, 108, n. 3 
Lemonade, 210 

derivatives of, 211, n. 5 
Lemon ice, 206 
Lemon sauce, 78, n. 5 
Lessons, suggestions for: 

hearty diet, 12 

light diet, 120 
Lettuce, wilted, 152 

variations in, 152, n. 6 
Light diet, 119-212 
Liver: 

broiled: see Broiling, general method for 

sautded, 19 
Limch, camp, menus, 13, 83, n. 2 
Luncheon menus, 128, 130, 147, 151, 153, 174, 
177, 232, 233, 237, 238 

for a hot day, 160 

for hearty diet, 13 

for Hght diet, 125, 128, 130, 147, 151, 153, 
160, 167, 174, 177 

spring, 167 

summer, 125 

with caloric values of, 218, 219 
Lyonnaise potatoes, 15 

Macaroon crumbs, preparation of, 201, n. 2 
Matzoh flour, use of, for sponge cake, 191, n. 7 
Mayonnaise, mock, 183, n. 3 



THE INDEX 



253 



Mayonnaise derivatives, 181, n. 1 
Meals, planning and serving of, 225-246 
Measures, table of, 7 
Meat jelly, 130 

meats used for, 131, n. 3 

uses of, 133, n. 3 
•Meat pies, 74, n. 3 
Meats: 

accompaniments of, 35 

boiled, 34-35 

broiled, lean, 22-25 

fat, saut^ed, 20, 21 

for hearty diet, 17-35, 91 

for light diet, 136, 174 

garnishes for, 22, 26 

lean, broiled, 22-24 

left-over; see Left-overs 

oven-roasted, 26-29 

saut^ed, 20, 21 

simmered, 34-35 

temperatures for cooking, 8, 20, nn. 2-4, 34 

tender lean cuts, 22-33 

used for broiling, 22 

used for jellies: see Meat jelly 

used for souffles, 136 
Meat salads, 174 
Meat sandwiches, 114, 115, n. 6 
Meat soups, cold, 130-133 
Meat substitutes for souffles, 136 
Menus: see Breakfast menus; Dinner menus; 
Luncheon menus 

caloric values of, 218-220 
Mincemeat filling, mock, 85 
Mock angel cake, 193 
Mock devil's food, 59 
Mock sponge cake, 191 
Molasses, equivalent use of, 40, n. 11 
Muffins: 

baking, rule for, 40, n. 13 

flours used for, 48, hn. 7, 8 

graham, fried, 93 

handling of, 38, n. 4 

mixing, rules for, 47, n. 3 

one-egg, 46 

rye, fried, 93 

temperatures for, 46 

tests for, 47, n. 4 

variations in, 46, n. 1, 47, n. 6 
Mutton, oven-roasted, general method for, 26 

Normal adults, occupations governing food 

requirements of, 4 
Nut salads, 173 
combinations for, 176 



Oat cake, 83, n. 4 

Oats, preparation of, for breads, 39, n. 6 

Occupations governing food requirements, 4, 5 

Oil substitutes, directions for use of, 66, n. 2 

Okra, Creole style, 148 

Okra soup, 129 

Omelets: 

additions to, 142-143 

foamy, 141 

garnishes for, 142 

proportions of ingredients for, 143, n. 2 

relation to sponge cake, 142, n. 5 

seasonings for, 143 

temperature for, 142, n. 3 
Omelet-souffle, 143, n. 7 
1, 2, 3, 4 cake: see Cake, rich 
100-calorie portions, 221-223 

breakfast [problem], 222 

cost [problem], 223 

dinner [problem], 223 

Dr. Fisher's exhibit [illustration], 222 

limcheon [problem], 223 
Onions: 

boiling, 145 

peeling, directions for, 146, n. 3 

saut^ed, 15 
Orange, preparation of, 122, n. 6 
Orangeade, 211, n. 7 
Orange ice, 206 
Oven: 

points desirable in, 40, n. 14 

regulation of, for cake, 57, n. 4 
Oven-roasted meats, 26-33 
Oven temperatures, table of, 7 
Oysters: 

fried, 98 

saut^ed, 17, 18, n. 2 

Pancakes, treatment of mixtures for, 38, n. 4 
Parsnips, boiling of, 145 
Pastry dough: 

forms of, 69 

temperatures for, 8 
Patties: 

green-corn, 45 

variations in, 46, nn. 1-4 
Peanut dressing, 165, n. 5 
Peas: 

green, directions for cooking, 147 
preserving color of, 146, n. 1 
serving of, 147, n. 2 

split, boiled, 105, n. 3 
Peppers, green, boiling of, 145 



254 



THE INDEX 



Pheasant, roast: see Chicken 
Pie: 

apple, 84, 85, nn. 1-6 

dried fruit, 110 

mock mince, 85, 86, nn. 1-5 
Pie crust, 86, 87, n. 3 
Pies: 

fish, 74, n. 3 

fruit, 84-87 

meat, 74, n. 3 

rules for baking, 40, n. 13 
Pineapple* ice, 206 
Pinwheel rolls, 70 

variations in, 70, nn. 1-4 
Plum pudding: see Pudding, suet 
Pocketbook roll: see Roly-poly 
Poinsettia salad, 163 
Popovers, 185 

serving of, 186, n. 6 

temperatures for, 185 
Pork: 

fat, saut6ed, 21 

oven-roasted, 26 
Potato balls, sautded, 14 
Potato chowder, 154 
Potatoes: 

Franconia, 28 

fried, precautions, 92, n. 5 
types of, 02, n. 1 

Lyonnaise, 15 

white, fried, 91 
chips, 92, n. 1 
Potato flour, use of, in sponge cake, 191 
Potato salad, 171, 177, n. 1 

additions to, 171, n. 2 

combinations for, 172, n. 3 

sweet-sour, 172 
Poultry, oven-roasted, 26, 30-33 

general method for, 30-33 

temperatures for, 26 
Pound cake, 54 

variations in, 55, n. 4 
Protein: 

food with, temperature for, 17 

percentage, in normal diet, 5, n. 2 
Protein foods: 

•care of, 139, 140 

for drjdng, 104 

for hearty diet, 17-19, 22-35, 97-98, 105- 
109, 110, 114r-115 

for Kght diet, 134-143, 174^176 

fried, 97-98 

sautded, 17-19 



Protein-food salads, 174-176 
Prune whip, 196, n. 5 
Ptomaine poisoning: 

precautions against, 139 

sources of, 138, 140, nn. 1, 2 
Pudding: 

carrot, 50 

suet, standard, 50 

Yorkshire, 29 
Puddings: 

garnishes for, 62 

steamed, 52, n. 
in molds, 73 

suet, boiling, 51, n. 4 
types of, 50 

variations in, 51, nn. 2, 3 
Pudding sauces, 76-79 
Puffs, cream, 186-188 

fillings for, 187, 188 

temperatures for, 187 and n. 3 

Quail: see general methods for roast chicken 

Rabbit, sautded, 18 
Raspberry ice, 206 
Relishes: 

fruit combinations for, 121-122 
preparation of, 123 
Rice: 

hard sauce for, 77, n. 2 

left-over: see Left-overs 
Rice croquettes, method, 88 
Rice flour: 

for puffs, 187, n. 2 

for sponge cake, 191 
Rice salad, 177 
Rice whip, 201, n. 3 
Roasting: 

[problem], 24 

temperatures for, 8, 23, n. 1, 27, nn. 5, C 
Roll biscuits, 66 
Rolls, pinwheel, 70 
Roly-poly, 71 
Rye muffins, fried, 93 

Salad: 
asparagus, 178 
cabbage, 160 
celery root, 172, n. 4 
chestnut, 172, 177, n. 1 
combinations, 162 
cucimiber, 163 
daisy, 176 



THE INDEX 



255 



egg, 176 
fruit, 167-169 
grapefrtUt, 162 
poinsettia, 163 
potato, 171, 177, n. 1 

sweet-sour, 172 
rice, 177 

stuffed-tomato, 177 
tomato-jelly, 161 
Waldorf, 167 
Salad dressings, 164, 180-184 
classification of, 156 
cooked, 180-184 

fats used in, 180 

liquids used in, 180 

method for making, 181 

seasonings used in, 181 

types of, 180 
for fruit salad^, 183 
French, 164 

mixing of, with salad, 156, nn. 5-7 
peanut, 165, n. 5 
seasonings for, 156 
Salads, 155-179 
appetizer, 155, 160-163 

constituents of, 155, n. 2 

how served, 156, nn. 2-7 
carbohydrate, 155, 167-173 

how served, 156, n. 3 
cheese, 175 
classification of, 155 
complete-dish, 155, 177-179 

combinations for, 179 
dressings for: see Salad dressings 
dried legume, 176 
essentials of, 159 
fish, 174 
fruit, 167-170 
light-vegetable, 162-163 
meat, 174 
nut, 173, 176 
protein-food, 155, 174-176 

how served, 156, n. 4 
vegetable, 162-163, 171-173 
"vegetable gelatin" used for, 161, 

n.S 
Salad sandwiches, 115, 116, n. 7 
Salad vegetables: 
classification of, 157 
treatment of, 157, nn. 1-4 
Sandwiches, 114-118 
general method, 116-118 
served with meat salads, 175, n. 2 



Sandwich fillings: 

classification of, 114-115 

combinations for, 115, 116, n. 7, 175, n. 2 
Sauce: 

caramel, 77 

Hollandaise, 135 

hard, 76 

variations of, 77, nn. 1-4 

pudding, hot, 78 
variations of, 78, nn. 1-6 

sour-sweet, 151 
Sauce-souffi6, 136 
Saut6ed foods, 13-21 
Savory biscuits, 68, n. 7 
Scallops, saut^ed, 18, n. 3 
Scones, 68 

Scrambled (dried) eggs, 110 
Scrapple, 16, n. 1 
Seasonings: 

for meat jelly, 130 

for omelettes, 143 

for salad dressings, 156, n. 3 

for souffles, 136 
Serving of meals, directions for, 225-246 
Shortcake, 75 

of griddlecakes, 45, n. 10 

temperature for baking, 76 

variation of, 76, n. 2 
Sirup; 44, n. 10 

for beverages, 211, n. 6 
Smelts, fried, 97, n. 1 
Snowball, strawberry, 71, n. 3 
Snow pudding with whip, 197, n. 7 
Sorrel, boiling of, 145 
Souffle, omelet, 143, n. 7 
Souffle, sauce-, 136 

variations of, 137, n. 2 
Souffl^: 

characteristics of, 202, n. 1 

derivation of, 202, n. 7 

in timbales, 137, n. 3 

leavening agents in [problem], 204, 205 

observations on, 202, nn. 1-7 

savory, l36 

variations in, 137, n. 2, 202 

sweet, variations in, 202 

types of, 202 
Soups: 

classification of, 132 

cold meat, 130-133 

dried-legume, 107 

for hearty diet, 107-109 

for light diet, 125-133 



256 



THE INDEX 



Soups (carUinued): 

fruit, 125-127 

legume, 107 

of legume powder, 108 

okra, 129. 

hot, classification of, 133, n. 4 
vegetable, 128-129 

vegetable-rice, 129 

vegetable waters used for, 145 
Sour-sweet sauce, 151 
Spinach, creamed, 110 
Sponge cake, 190 

derivatives of, 190, n. 4 

mock, 191 

variations of, 190, n. 1 

with whip, 197, n. 7 
Sponge cakes, 189-191 

temperatures for baking, 8, 189, 190 

types of, 189 
Squab, roast: see Chicken 
Starch paste, viscosity of, 203 
Starchy foods: see Carbohydrate foods 
Steam as leavening agent, 203, [problem] 204, 

[problem] 205 
Stews, vegetable, method, 154 
Strawberry ice, 206 
Strawberry snowball, 71, n. 3 
Strawberry whip, 196, n. 3 
Straws, cheese, 166 and n. 4 
String beans with bacon, 151 
Strudel: 

apple, Hungarian, 79-80 

varieties of, 81 
Stuflfed-tomato salad, 177 
Stuffing for chicken, 31 
Succotash, 106, 148 

Sugar, granulated, substitutes for, 40, n. 11 
Sugar solutions, viscosity of, 203 
Sunshine cake, 190^ n. 4 
Supper, camp, menu, 13, 83, n. 2 
Sweet potatoes, glazed: see Vegetable slices, 

saut^ed 
Syllabub, 202 

Tea, 211-212 

Russian, 212, n. 2 
Teapot, selection of, 212, n. 3 
Temperatures, 7, 8 

for apple pie, 84 

for boiled frosting, 60 and n. 1 

for broiling, 22 

for cake, 57, n. 4 

for candy sirups, 99, 100 



for cookies, 64, 65 

for com breads, 48, 49 

for cream puffs, 187 and n. 3 

for fat meats, 20, n. 2 

for meats, 20, nh. 2-4, 34 

for muffins, 46 

for omelet, 142, n. 3 

for oven-roasts, 26, 27, nn. 5, 6 

for popovers, 185 

for roll biscuits, 66 

for 8aut6ed egg, 21, n. 2 

for saut^g griddlecakes, 43, n. 4 

for shortcake, 75 

for white fondant, 102 

tables of, 7, 8 
Temperature test for frying, 93, n. 3 
Thermometer, oven, hanging of, 41, n. 15 
Timbale cases, 94-95 
Timbale fillings, 94, n. 1 » 
Timbales, souflflds baked in, 137, n. 3 
Toast, cheese, 165 
Tomato bouillon, 128 
Tomatoes, saut^ed, 14 
Tomato-jelly salad, 161 
Toxins: 

precaution against, 139 (see also Hot 
weather, safety rules for) 

sources of, 138, 140, nn. 1, 2 
Tripe, saut^ed, 19 
Turban of fish, 98, n. 2 
Turkey, roast: see general directions for 

chicken 
Turnips, boiling of, 145 

Unleavened breads, 82-83 

Veal: 

oven-roasted, general directions for, 26 

sauces for, 24 
Veal chops, breaded, 23 
Veal cutlets, breaded, 23 
Vegetable additions to omelettes, 143 
Vegetable chowder, 153 
Vegetable hash, 15, n. 2 
Vegetable-rice soup, 129 
Vegetables, 144-154 

aims in cooking, 144 

boiled, how served, 146 

boiling, directions for, 144, 146 

fried in batter, 96 

reducing flavors of, 145, nn. 1-3 

salad, classification of, 157 

sour-sweet, 151 



THE INDEX 



257 



steaming, directions for, 144 

used for croquettes, 89, n. 1 

used for sauting, 13 

xised for souffle, 136 
V^etable salads. 160, 162-163, 171-173 
V^etable slices, saut^ed, 15 
Vegetable stews, 153-154 
Viscosity: 

aids to, 203 

characteristics of, 203 
Viscous substances, a study of, 203-206 

Waffles: see Griddlecakes 

Waldorf salad, 167 

Warm weather, safety rules for, 138 

Water ices, 206-207 

Weather, effect of, on diet, 6, nn. 3, 4 

Whip: 

apple, 196, n. 4 

cream, 200 
fruits used with, 197 



plain, whole-^gg, 194 

preparation of fruits for, 197, nn. 1-5 

prune, 196, n. 5 

rice, 201, n. 3 

strawberry, 196, n. 3 

white-of-egg, 195, 200, n. 10 

additions to, 195 , 

and gelatin, 198 

fruits used with, 197 

variations in, 196, n. 3 
whole-egg: 

date, 194 

fig, 194 
Whips, 194-202 
proportions for, 199, n. 1 
variations in, 199, nn. 1-5, 200, nn. 6-10 
White fondant, 102 
White Mountain cream, 62 

Yeast mixtures, maniptdation of, 38, n. 4 
Yorkshire pudding, 29 



HOME ECONOMICS SERIES 

LESSONS IN COOKERY 

B}f Frances Elizabeth SieiParU Instructor in Home Economics, 
Robert Lindblom Technical High School, Chicago 



This series, a two years course for high schools, is a definite force for self help, 
upon economic values, and treating foods and their preparation for the child, adult, and 
invalid in relation to health, these four books not only make for better and more prof- 
itable service in the home, but they lay the foundation of a radical improvement in health 
for those who come imder their influence. 



Food Economy* Book One consists of lessons in cooking carefully planned 
to lower the cost of living and to attain the greatest values in foods. Naturally "the 
balanced ration," and *'the complete dish," are features of the book. Food economy 
treats the preservation of foods by means of drying and canning. *' left-overs," inexpensive 
meat cuts, stews, meat substitutes, bread, and wheat substitutes, and gives invaluable 
exercises and aids for the use of the future housewife S1.25 

Diet for Adults* in Book Two the needs of the worker are the subject of 
study, and calorie values are the basis of the dishes treated. Suitable diets for both 
hard and light workers are carefully considered. Problems in calorie values, as the 100 
calorie portion scheme, give the pupil thinking work to do S1.25 

Diet for Children* Book Three deals with suitable foods for babies and 
children. For the older infant there are broths, gruels, and fruit juices, and for children 
of four to eight years, such dishes as cereals, cream soups, simple fruit and milk desserts. 
The older child also has attention. Sections on lunch boxes, parties, and penny lunch- 
rooms have point for teacher, parent, and pupil S1.25 

Diet for Invalids* Book Four gives an interesting insight into foods in their 
relation to disease. Here are bran breads and dried foods useful for elimination diseases, 
special diet for diabetes and fever patients, and for children wasting from malnutrition, 
there are foods valuable for iron, fats, and proteins. The book is one of worth not only 
to the teacher and pupil, but to the nurse and mother S1.25 

These books are bound also in laboratory form ready for filing in notebooks. 

Price, each, Si .25 



RAND McNALLY & COMPANY 



CHICAGO 



NEW YORK 



? t-ar 



This tastfbook may be borrowed for 
two week», with the privilege of renew- 
ing it once, A fine of five cents a day is 
incurred by fkilure to return a book on 
the date when it is due. 

^ The Education Libraxy is open from 
& to 5 daily except Saturday when it 
closes at 12.30. 




