



y 

V^ ^ 



,^*^ ^^. 









o-o' ^-^^ 



^ /^Va-- *^^^^/ /,dfev -^^^.^^ ''^ 








' ,0 



















•4 ^lv* ^*Zk - 







O f» 



>p-% 






4 o 









4 o 





^""^^ 














.' A 










\0 V". * ■! 









*«no' --?> 












-v 







'^r^^- 














%, ..y 







•^^ 











OUR COUNTRY'S CALL 
TO SERVICE 

THROUGH PUBLIC AND PRIVATE SCHOOLS 

WORK - SAVE - GIVE 




J, W. STUDEBAKER 



SCOTT, FORESMAN AND COMPANY 

CHICAGO NEW YORK 



f 



OUR COUNTRY'S CALL 
TO SERVICE 

THROUGH PUBLIC AND PRIVATE SCHOOLS 
WORK-SAVE-GIVE 



A Summons and a Plan of Action for American Boys, Girls, Parents. 
How to win the War for Democracy hy: 1. Conserving Food. 2. Plant- 
ing Home Gardens. 3. Saving Fuel. k- Thrift — War 
Savings Stamps, etc. 5. Helping the Red Cross. 
6. What Democracy Means. 



BY 

J: W. STUDEBAKER 

ASSISTANT SUPERINTENDENT OF SCHOOLS, DES MOINES, IOWA 



SCOTT, FORESMAN AND COMPANY 

CHICAGO NEW YORK 




WORDS FEOM PRESIDENT WILSON 



The supreme test of the nation has come. We must all speak, 
act, and serve together. 



The whole nation must be a team, in which each man shall 
play the part for which he is best fitted. 



Loyalty mean^»that you ought to be ready to sacrifice every 
interest that you have, and your life itself, if your country calls 
upon you to do so. 



This is the time for America to correct her unpardonable 
fault of wastefulness and extravagance. Let every man and 
every woman assume the duty of careful, provident use and 
expenditure as a public duty, as a dictate of patriotism which 
no one can now expect ever to be excused or forgiven for 
ignoring. 

MAR 30 1918 

©CI.A492775 

Copyright 1918 
By Scott, Foresman and Company 



WOODEOW WILSON 



/L. <r\ 



PREFACE 

This little book is the outgrowth of efforts to supply pupils and 
parents with the information necessary to an understanding of some of 
our great national needs, and also to make clear to them that patriotism 
means unselfish service and sacrifices freely made, and that such deeds 
done at home in civil life are as patriotic as the heroic acts by soldiers in 
the death struggle for Democracy. 

Early in this school year an attempt was made in the Des Moines 
Public Schools to accomplish these ends by supplying teachers with 
Government pamphlets, and lesson plans. This method, however, proved 
unsatisfactory because of the difficulty of securing and distributing the 
pamphlets, the confusion resulting from the inclusion in them of a large 
amount of technical subject matter, and the fact that the material was 
not in shape for classroom use. Then too it was not possible to inter- 
est the home in a collection of disconnected pamphlets. A single book 
for school and home seemed a necessity. The present volume is the 
outgrowth of this situation. It is prepared with the keynote : A recog- 
nition of one's personal obligation to his country ivhich ends in action. 

Every school man feels now as never before that courses of study 
should not be fixed by tradition but must be determined hy the important 
present and future needs of our country. This book is therefore 
based upon the conviction that the traditional activities of the schools 
must yield to new and more vital demands by giving up part 
of the time formerly allotted to them. The author recommends 
that a daily period of not less than 10 to 20 minutes in the grades 
and an equivalent amount of time each week in the high school be set 
aside as a Service Period in which the activities suggested in this book 
may be discussed, planned, and, wherever possible, performed in the 
classroom. Those which cannot be done in the classroom should be 
followed up by the teachers, who after all are the most influential and 
therefore the most responsible agents for the development of good citi- 
zenship. 

Such a period, holding as it should a definite place on the regular 
program of the school, and designed for the purpose of causing pupils 
to think and work intelligently and unselfishly for others will do much 
to develop among them a clear conception of the rapidly increasing 
interdependence of modern society. It will be more effective than any 
other period in bringing the boys and girls of today — the adult citizens 
of toinorrow — into a full realization of the fact that their destinies are 
unavoidably bound up with the fortunes of their fellows ; that their 
future happiness is as dependent upon the happiness of others as upon 
their own individual achievements. The result will be a conservation 
of resources, a stronger nation-wide morale, and the development of a 
determination to stand together and fight for Democracy to the end. 

As stated above, the book has been prepared for the purpose of 
informing and influencing parents as well as pupils. It should, there- 
fore, be used in as many grades as possible. In Des Moines each pupil 
from the kindergarten through the high school received a copy. In the 
lowest grades, where it can not be studied, teachers have a series of 
lessons on the content of the book, direct the cliildren's attention to 

3 



4 Our Country's Call to Service 

some of the pictures while discussing certain points, ask the pupils to 
insert a book mark at a particular page, and request them to have their 
parents read up to that place in the evening. In addition to this pro- 
cedure there are, of course, many other exercises in the form of 
dramatizations, dialogues, songs, etc., that add much enthusiasm as 
well as seriousness. In the intermediate and upper grades, and in the 
high school the pupils eagerly study the hook as a text; bring into the 
class discussion their own interpretations and experiences and infor- 
mation gleaned from available reference material ; make and compare 
the various records suggested; write patriotic compositions and plays; 
carry into the home and into general practice the suggestions in the 
book, etc. In ail grades the pupils are daily doing Red Cross work; 
buying Thrift Stamps and War Savings Stamps; discussing conserva- 
tion, gardening, the value of economy, and the evil of waste. 

Aside from the exercises definitely arranged for, the material on 
every page furnishes the basis for valuable discussion which may be 
so handled as to secure practical action among the pupils. For example 
the statement on page 18 "Breadstuffs are wasted by careless storing 
of cereals (insects destroy flour and meal)" will suggest such questions 
as these : What kind of flour or meal have you ever seen destroyed by 
careless storing? Where was it stored? What destroyed i#? How 
might it have been saved? etc. Again, on page 33 the ^fluestion 
is asked, "How many teaspoonfuls of sugar do you think you eat each 
day?" Extend this by asking several pupils individually to tell for 
each meal in the day how many teaspoonfuls they generally use. Ask 
them to estimate the amount used in pie, cake, jelly, ice cream, candy, 
etc., that they eat and add this to the total amount which they put in 
cereals, cocoa, coffee or tea, fruit, etc. Another illustration of these 
numerous opportunities is found on page 98 where reference is made to 
the lack of patriotism shown in purchasing luxuries and spending lav- 
ishly on clothing. All through this section on Thrift, as elsewhere in the 
book, the teacher should capitalize the opportunity to impress the value 
of the simple life, the dignity of honest labor, and the evil of extrava- 
gance and idleness. 

The author is deeply grateful for the generous help received from 
many people and organizations. He is especially indebted to the Com- 
mittee on Public Information, the American Red Cross, the United 
States Food Administration, the United States Department of Agri- 
culture, and the War Savings Committee for pictures and material; to 
the American Red Cross for pictures used in Part V ; to Laura Moulton, 
Gertrude Murphy, Emma Bradley, Clara Funston, Anna Stohlgren, 
Frances Umpleby, and Laura Mathews, elementary school principals 
in Des Moines, Iowa, for the preparation and criticism of much of the 
material on food conservation; to Dr. E. G. Cooley, Director Junior 
Red Cross for the Central Division, for his helpful suggestions ; to L. P. 
Benezet, Superintendent of Schools, Evansville, Indiana, for the prepa- 
ration of the section on the Junior Red Cross ; and to Mr. Seth Shepard, 
Country Life Director, Cook County, Illinois, for material furnished 
for the section on the Home Garden. 

J. W. STUDEBAKER, 

March, 1918. 



CONTENTS 

Page 
Pbeface 3 

A Catechism of Service 7 

A Call from the U. S. Food Administration 8 

Pabt One — Food Conservation 

A. Why the World Is Short of Food 11 

B. Foods Most Needed by Our Allies 16 

Wheat 16 

Meats— Fats— Milk 24 

Sugar 31 

General Directions on Food Conservation 37 

Conservation Eecipes 47 

A. The Balanced Diet 48 

B. Wheat Saving Eecipes ,• 54 

C. Meat Saving Recipes 59 

D. Sugar Saving Recipes 63 

E. Special Recipes for Vegetables 69 

F. Food for Children 70 

Part Two — The Home Garden ." 73 

Part Three — Saving Fuel 83 

Part Four— Thrift 91 

Why We Must Practice Thrift 95 

The War-Savings Plan 105 

Part Five — The Junior Red Cross Ill 

Part Six — What Is Democracy ? 117 

Bibliography of Bulletins for Further Study or Reference 123 

Index 127 

5 



Our Country's Call to Service 



5CHC>0»^ 




A PLACE FOR ALL IN THE ARMY OF SERVICE 
The soldier and the sailor serve by fighting for Democracy. 
The doctor and the nurse serve by caring for the wounded. 

The miner, the mechanic, and the farmer serve by supplying 
coal, ships, munitions, food, etc., for carrying on the war. 

The business and the professional man, in fact all of us, serve 

by supplying money. 

The housekeeper and the cook serve by saving food and fuel. 

The teacher serves by training boys and girls to become good 
citizens. 

Every patriotic American can serve by being loyal — by work- 
ing, saving, giving. 



How can every hoy and girl join the ranks of the 
great Amencan Army of Service? This hook tells you. 



What Service Means 7 

A CATECHISM OF SERVICE 

Question: What is patriotism? 

Answer: Patriotism is love of one's country, the desire to 
serve one's country. 

Question: What are some of the most important vrays in v^hich 
American boys and girls can serve their country 
now? 

Answer: By producing and conserving food, by saving fuel, 
by avoiding waste, by investing money in War Sav- 
ings Stamps and Liberty Bonds, by joining the Red 
Cross, by giving money and service to all organi- 
zations that are helping to win the war. 

Question : How can they help in the production of food? 

Answer: By planting and caring for gardens at home or on 
vacant lots. They thus increase the food supply. 

Question: What is meant by conservation of food? 

Answer: Conservation means no waste. It also means that 

we must not eat more than we really need. 
Question: Why must we conserve food? 

Answer: Because our soldiers in France and our Allies de- 
pend on us for food. They are doing the fighting, 
the suffering, and the dying. We must send food. 

Question: What food is it most necessary to conserve? 

Answer: Wheat, meat, fats, and sugar. 

Question : Why should we save wheat ? 

Answer: Because wheat bread is an energy food. The men 
on the firing line must be well nourished. Wheat 
can be shipped better than corn. 

Question: Why should we save meat and fats? 

Answer: Because they are a necessity for soldiers, who do 
hard manual labor. Our allies cannot produce live 
stock because of lack of feed. Then too fats are 
needed for explosives. 

Question : Why should we save sugar ? 

Answer: Because sugar furnishes physical and mental energy. 
The men on the front need sugar more than we do. 



8 Our Country ^s Call to Service 

A CALL FROM THE U. S. FOOD ADMINISTRATION 




"We are at war. The path 
of duty lies clearly defined 
before us. We must follow 
it to the end; we may not 
turn back, save at the price 
of national honor and the 
loss of national and individ- 
ual freedom. We must drink 
to the last bitter dregs the 
cup that we could not put 
from us. Humanity, patri- 
otism, self - preservation, 
honor urge us onward to the 
successful completion of the 
task that shall for all time 
rid the world of the danger 
overshadowing it and make 
it safe for democracy. 

Our Allies are confronted 
with the grim specter of star- 
vation and if for no other 
reason they must be fed in 
our own defense. If they 

have to yield to Germany because of hunger, America alone 
will have to shoulder the burden of winning the world war. 
And so to save our Allies and their liberty and our own, we 
have pledged our youth, our wealth, our all. 

An army ill-fed cannot fight; people ill-nourished cannot 
maintain their armies; if the women and children cry for 
bread, the soldiers lose heart. If the bread line is lowered, 
the battle line breaks. 

You would give your life for your country. You would 
scorn an American whose patriotism ended with waving flags, 
cheering the troops, and standing up when the band plays. 
You want to serve your country. Are you willing to do what 
your government asks? Are you so comfortably fixed that 
you can afford to eat what you please? Ah, but you can't 
afford to eat what your country needs. 



Herbert Hoover 

U. S. Food Administrator 



A Call from the U. S. Food Administration 9 

If you have given a son or brother or husband to fight ; if 
your wife or daughter or sister is nursing at the front; if you 
have subscribed for Liberty Bonds or to the Red Cross; if you 
have given aid to war orphans or cripples ; if in doing all these 
things you think you have done your share, J^now the grim 
truth: 

All the blood, all the heroism, all the money and munitions 
in the world will not win this war unless our Allies and the 
armies behind them are fed. 

They will 7iot be fed unless we take care ; indeed, if we are 
not prudent we, too, shall go hungry. Protect our supplies, 
then, that they may be fed, that your sacrifice of life and 
money be not in vain. 

Lest we lose the Great Cause, stand guard, each day, in 
your home, over your supply of 

WHEAT, MEAT, FATS, SUGAR, MILK 

Use here the foods that we have to spare so we will be 
able to supply the needs ''over there." 

Your task in this war is to guard food for the soldiers 
and home workers of our Allies. They are fighting for YOU ! 

You can release shiploads of wheat for these fighters and 
workers by using less wheat flour in your homes and by using 
more corn meal, by wasting not a crust or crumb of white 
bread. 

By eating less beef, mutton, and pork, and by eating more 
fresh and preserved or dried vegetables and fish, our supply 
of meat animals will do for us and our Allies. 

Likewise you are needed to stand guard and see that there 
is no waste in the world's supply of fats, sugar, and milk in 
your homes. They are becoming scarcer. As they do, then 
we ourselves and our brothers on the firing lines and our sisters 
in the fields and munition factories will suffer. 

Three times a day — at each meal — think of America's 
glorious privilege: To feed the world while it fights its way 
to freedom. Then remember that you are standing guard, 
that the opportunity to win this war for humanity is yours. 



10 



Our Country's Call to Service 




HUNGER. 

For three years America has 
foutfht starvation in BeMum 

w^ill you Eat Jess '^ wheat 
meat — fats and sugar 
that jve may still send 
food in ship loads 



UNITED STATES FOOD ADMINISTRATION 



CAN YOU LOOK AT THIS PICTUEE AND STILL WASTE FOOD? 



PART ONE 



FOOD CONSERVATION 



A. WHY THE WORLD IS SHORT OF FOOD 

To fully understand why the world is short of food, it is 
necessary to know the names and locations of the nations in 
the great war. Locate on a map of the world our allies and 
our enemies, as listed below. 



Our Allies 

Population 

British Empire. . . 437,947,432 



Our Enemies 
Population 

Germany 66,715,000 

France . . .\ 39;60l',509 Austria-Hungary . . 50,500,000 

T> , 1 ^a^rrnor, Bulgaria 4,755,000 

Portugal 5,957,985 ^^^i^ 21 274 000 

Belgium 7,571,387 __!^___ 



Italy 35,598,000 

San Marino 10,655 

Serbia 4,600,000 

Roumania 7,600,000 

Montenegro .... 520,000 

Greece 5,000,000 

Russia^ 175,137,000 

China^ 413,000,000 

Japan 53,696,858 

Brazil 24,000,000 

Cuba 2,500,000 

Panama 427,000 

Liberia 2,060,000 

Siam 6,000,000 



TOTAL 143,244,000 



TOTAL ...*1,221,227,826 



DEMOCRACY AND 
AUTOCRACY 

face €ack other on the battle fronts. 
The fundamental thing to be 
proved is which shall prevail in 
the world. Unless we can make 
our ways of living more effective 
than those of autocracy, we must 
yield to its ruthless sway. One 
system or the other will command 
civilization in the next stage of 
the world. Which shall it be? 



1, Eussia at the present time is not an active ally. 

2. As yet China has not taken a prominent part in the war. 

* The population of the United States and possessions in 1914 was 
109,021,992. 

11 



12 Our Country's Call to Service 

OUR ALLIES WILL STAEVE IF WE DO NOT HELP 
Because: 

1. Millions of men have gone from farm to battle front. 

Their places on the farm have been only partially filled by unskilled 
labor, crippled soldiers, women, and lazy prisoners. 

2. On account of unfavorable weather conditions 1916 was one 
of the worst seasons in agricultural history. 

Little rainfall, droughts, hurricanes, late spring, and early frosts 
greatly decreased the amount of food produced. The following 
figures show the decrease in the U. S. wheat crop in 1916: 

1915 1,025,801,000 bushels 

1916 639,886,000 bushels 

Although the 1917 crop was a good one, it could not offset the short- 
age of 1916. 

3. The German submarines have sunk hundreds of boats filled 
with thousands of tons of food. 

4. The German submarines have also destroyed thousands of 
tons of fertilizers that were being shipped to England, 
France, Italy, and Belgium. 

For many years these countries have dspended on imported fertiliz- 
ers to enrich the soil so that it would produce more food. Since the 
war began the producing power of the soil in these countries has 
been greatly lowered through lack of these fertilizers. 

5. Nearly all of Belgium, Serbia, and Roumania, and much of 
Northern France are now in the possession of the Germans. 
The loss of this great fertile region has taken away from our allies 

. the food that these sections have always produced. 

6. Thousands of acres of land in France, Italy, and England 
are occupied by miUions of soldiers and great cantonments. 

7. Constant shell fire and the murderous bombs dropped from 
German airplanes have made it dangerous and difficult for 
the people of France, especially the. women and children, to 
cultivate the soil for several miles behind the trenches. 
Many of the courageous and loyal women of France, whose husbands 
are either dead or are at the front, work in the fields at night so 
that the Germans in airplanes cannot see them. 



Why the World Is Short of Food 13 

OUR WESTERN ALLIES DEPEND ON US FOR FOOD 

Before the war they imported millions of tons of food 
every year. Most of this food came from : 

RUSSIA. The Turks and Germans have made it almost 

impossible to import grain from Russia. Tell 
the reason. 

BULGARIA. Now an enemy. 

SERBIA. ) Now in the possession of the enemies. 

ROUMANIA. f 

AUSTRALIA "i '^^^ distance from these countries to England or 

INDIA ' I France is so great that with the small number 

ARGENTINA \ ^^ ships available they can send the Allies little 

• "' food. Moreover, their surplus is not very large. 

UNITED STATES. ) These countries must send the necessary food. 

CANADA. j" The distance is by far the shortest and the route 

is the best protected from submarines and raid- 
ers. See map on page 14. 

In normal times before the war, England, Ireland, France, 
Italy, and Belgium were to a large degree dependent upon 
imports for their food supplies. Every year they imported 
over 750,000,000 bushels of grain and vast quantities of animal 
and fat products. Much of their grain came from Russia, 
Roumania, Serbia, and Bulgaria. But a study of the map in 
your geography will show you that our Western Allies can- 
not secure wheat from Russia because shipment through the 
Black Sea and the Dardanelles is impossible, since these waters 
are controlled by the Turks. Shipping through the Baltic and 
North Seas is cut off by' the Germans. The only course that 
might be traveled is from a northern port in Russia through 
the Arctic Ocean and around Norway. Lack of railroads in 
Russia, the shortage of ships, and the cold climate make this 
route too difficult and slow. 

Our enemies have cut off the supplies from Bulgaria, 
Serbia, and Roumania. The present enormous demand for 
ships necessary in the transportation of soldiers, munitions, 
and the thousands of tons of equipment required in modern 
warfare, combined with the shortage of vessels resulting from 
the destruction by submarines, makes it impossible to send food 
by the long route from Australia and India. 



14 



Our Country's Call to Service 





i ^ 




Notice in the above picture the advantage of shipping food 
from North America to our Allies. Look up on some map of 
the world the following routes: 

From Bombay, India, to France or England, via 
Red and Mediterranean Seas, about 3,700 miles. This 
is the route used before the war. 

From Bombay, India, to France or England, around 
Cape of Good Hope, Africa, 11,000 miles. This is the 
route that must be used now. Why ? 

From Sydney, Australia, to France or England, 
through the Panama Canal, 12,600 miles. 

From Buenos Aires, Argentina, to France, 5,200 
miles. 

From New York to France, 3,200 miles. This is 
the shortest route. 

The question of who wins this war is the question of tcho 
can endure the longest, and the problem of endurance, in a large 
degree, is a problem of food and the ships to carry it. 



Why the World Is Short of Food 15 

Questions and Exercises 

1. What is a concentrated food? Name several kinds. 

2. Why should we send concentrated foods to Europe? 

3. Tell why it would be foolish to ship certain foods to Europe. 

4. About how many trips do you think a vessel could make from New 
York to England while another vessel is going from Australia to 
England ? 

5. Write a composition explaining why our Allies are short of food. 

6. Look again at the picture on page 10 and write a composition telling 
how you think a man who is fighting in the trenches would feel when 
he hears that his loved ones are cold and hungry. 



16 



Our Country's Call to Service 



B. THE FOODS MOST NEEDED BY OUR ALLIES 

WHEAT 

Our Allies must have wheat. It is the best food to fight on. 
It is the easiest to ship. We alone can spare it to them. By- 
saving just a quarter of the wheat we ate last year, we can 
support those fighting our battles, and we can do it without 
stinting ourselves, by substituting another food just as good. 





1917 crop in 
U. S. and Canada 



Amount usually 

eaten by U. S. and 

Canada 



Amount remaining 
if we eat as usual 



Amount needed by 
our Allies 



How can sack No. 3 be made large enough to fill sack No. 4? 



9. 
10. 
11. 



Wheat Situation in France, Italy, England, and Belgium 

Before the war these countries imported annually from : 

United States 79,426,000 bushels 

Canada 112,900,000 bushels 

Russia, Roumania, Serbia, Bulgaria, 

Australia, India, Argentina, etc 188,478,000 bushels 

Total Yearly Imports 380,804,000 bushels 

They Produced Yearly 590,675,000 bushels 

They Used Yearly 971,479,000 bushels 

Their 1917 Crop 393,770,000 bushels 

They Need to Import 577,709,000 bushels 

If the United States and Canada eat as mucli wheat as usual 
they will have for export to our Allies: 

United States 80,000,000 bu. ) „^^ ^^^ ^^^ , , , 

Canada 150,000,000 bu. [ 230,00000^ bushels 

Our Allies' Shortage 347,709,000 bushels 



Save Wheat for Oar Allies 



17 



Our problem, then, as well as our duty, as is shown from the 
above table, becomes very clear. We must, through savings and 
substitutions, conserve enough wheat so that North America can 
send at least 450,000,000 bushels to our Allies. This would re- 
quire our Allies to substitute other cereals to the amount of 
127,709,000 bushels. It means that we must reduce our con- 
sumption 220,000,000 bushels and this can be done if we do our 
hit hy following the directions and suggestions given in this 
hook. 

There are two ways to help send the full supply of wheat 
needed by our Allies : 

(1) Do not allow a grain of ivheat to he wasted. 

(2) Reduce the amount of ivheat we consume hy eating 
other grains — corn, harley, etc. 




FRENCH WOMAN HARVESTING IN RECONQUERED SOMME DISTRICT 
This scene pictures the spirit of women in Prance today. While the 
men are fighting the Germans in the trenches, the women work in the 
fields raising food for the poilus who must be fed. Will you help them 
by saving wheat? 



18 



Our Country's Call to Service 



SERVE BY SAVING 

An Old Friend Speaks 

I am a slice .of Bread. I measure 
three inches by two and a half, and my 
thickness is half an inch. My weight is 
exactly an ounce. I am thrown away 
once a day by thousands of people in 
America. I am the ' ' bit left over. " I am 
the slice eaten absent-mindedly when 
really I am not needed. I am the de- 
spised crust. If you collected me and my 
companions for a whole week you would find that we amounted to 
thousands of pounds of good bread. When you throw me away 
or waste me, you are helping the German submarines destroy 
food. Stop fighting for the enemy hy wasting me I ! ! 




Don't Waste Wheat 



Breadstuffs Are Wasted : 



By careless storing of cereals (insects destroy flour and meal). 
By leaving flour and dough on bread bowl and board. 
By bread failures due to wrong handling and baking. 
By discarding left overs, biscuits, muffins, ends of loaves. 

(Bread crumbs may be used in many ways.) 
By underbaking, which results in bread that sours when a 

few days old. 
By improper storing of bread in damp places; this results 

in souring and molding. 



Save Wheat for Our Allies 19 



A Slice of Bread 

A single slice of bread seems an unimportant thing. 
In many households one or more slices of bread daily 
are thrown away. Sometimes stale quarter or half loaves 
are thrown out. Yet one good-sized slice of bread weighs 
an ounce. It contains almost three-fourths of an ounce 
of flour. 

If every one of the country's 20,000,000 homes 
wastes on the average only one such slice of bread a 
day, the country is throwing away daily over 14,000,000 
ounces of flour — over 875,000 pounds, or enough flour 
for over a million 1-pound loaves a day. For a full 
year at this rate there would be a waste of over 319,- 
000,000 pounds of flour— 1,500,000 barrels— enough to 
make 365,000,000 loaves of bread. 

As it takes 4^/^ bushels of wheat to make a barrel of 
ordinary flour, this waste would represent the flour 
from over 7,000,000 bushels of wheat. 

Fourteen and nine-tenths bushels of wheat on the 
average are raised per acre. It would take the wheat 
of some 470,000 acres just to provide a single slice of 
bread to be wasted daily in every home. 

To produce this much flour calls for an army of 
farmers, railway men, flour-mill people. To get the 
flour to the consumer calls for many freight cars and 
the use of many tons of coal. 

But, some, one says, a full slice of bread is not wasted 
every day in every home. Very well — make it a daily 
slice for every 4 or every 10 or every 30 homes — make 
it a weekly or a monthly slice in every home — or make 
the wasted slice thinner. The waste of flour is still 
altogether too great to be allowed when wheat is scarce. 

Any waste of bread is inexcusable when there are 
so many ways of using stale bread to cook delicious 
dishes. 



20 



Our Country's Call to Service 
SERVE BY SUBSTITUTING 



Little 
Americans " 

Do your hit 

Eat Corn meal musk- 
Oatmeal- Corn, fiakgs- 
Hominy and rice with- 
milK^ Eat no wheat cereals. 
Leave nothing on. your plate. 




UN 1 T E D 



S T A '! • E H 



A D M. I "M 1 S T a Al' ! O N 



Being careful not to waste wheat bread is not tiie only way 
to serve. A still more important w^ay is to eat corn bread and 
other substitutes for wheat bread. The following lists show you 
some foods that may be substituted for wheat : 

Other Grains 



VegetaUes 

Corn 

Eye 

Barley 

Oats 

Rice 



^: 


6REAKFAST 
" -J-i30D 

WMEAT 
II (i 








:3^ 


^ 

^ 


OAT 
MEAL 


|i ' 



Potatoes 
Beets 
Peas 
Beans 



It will not be a hardship for you to eat more potatoes and 
oatmeal, and less wheat. A potato will give you as much nour- 
ishment as two thick slices of bread; a small package of oat- 
meal contains as much nourishment as a much larger package 
of wheat breakfast food, and costs less. 

The wheat we send to our Allies from now on will 

he the direct amount that the people save out of their 

bread, for ive have shipped our surplus. This means 

literally that everyone who saves a slice of bread is giv- 

- ing a slice to the Allies. 



Save Wheat for Our Allies 
Do You Know Corn ]\Ieal ? 



21 



Corn! It isn't one food, it's a dozen. It's a cereal. It's a 
vegetable. It's a bread. It's a dessert. It's nutritious; more 
food value in it dollar for dollar than meat, eggs, or most 
vegetables. Best of all it's plentiful. 

Its use means service to your Country and a nourishing 
food for you. A cup of corn meal gives even mor^ fuel to your 
body than a cup of wheat flour. Try corn bread and see how 
good it is. You will wonder why you didn't use it before the 
war. (See Recipes, pages 54-58.) 

Heap high the farmer ^s wintry hoardi 

Heap high the golden corn! 
No richer gift has Autumn poured 

From out her lavish horn! 

Let other lands, exulting, glean 

The apple from the pine. 
The orange from its glossy green, 

The cluster from the vine; 

But let the good old crop adorn 

The hills our fathers trod; 
Still let us, for his golden corn, 

Send up our thanks to God! 

— JoJm Greenleaf Whit tier. 



Tv^TENTY Ways of Using Corn 
See if this list does not suggest possibilities to you 
Corn Meal 



Pone 

Mush 

Cake 

Bread 

Muffins 

Yeast Bread 

Indian Pudding 

Brown Bread 



Hominy 

Breakfast Food 

Griddle Cakes 

Muffins 

Soup 

Slices, Browned 
with Meat Pud- 
ding 

Pudding 



Green, Dried, or 
Canned Corn 

Succotash 
Corn Oysters 
Corn Fritters 
Soup 
Chowder 
Esealloped Corn 



22 Our Country ^s Call to Service 



Join the Service Army 



HOW WE MAY HELP 

1. By observing two wheatless days a week — Monday and 
Wednesday — and one wheatless meal each other day in 
the week. (This means 11 wheatless meals a week. Wheat- 
less means no wheat products — bread, biscuit, crackers, 
pastry. Remember that graham flour is made of wheat.) 

2. In all cooking use substitutes for wheat as much as pos- 
sible. 

3. Eat "Victory Bread" as eagerly as you expect the boys 
in khaki to go "over the top." 

4. Cut the loaf at the table so that none will be left to dry. 

5. Do not allow bread to become stale. 

6. Do not use toast as a garnish or serve food on toast. 

7. If there are bits of bread left, dry and grind or pound, 
using the crumbs in place of flour. 

8. Do not often use breakfast cereals made of wheat. 

9. If you use macaroni, spaghetti, or any Italian paste or noo- 
dles, remember that it is made of wheat and do not serve 

' bread at the same meal. 

10. Use cornstarch or rice flour for thickening sauces and 
gravies and in puddings. (Use half as much as you would 
of flour.) 

11. Remember — Bread made of mixed flours is better body- 
building material than that made from one grain alone. 

More Corn and less Wheat 
Will keep the Allies from defeat. 



Save Wheat for Our Allies 23 

EAT MORE POTATOES 

Annual Consumption of Potatoes per Person 

Germany (before the war) 9.4 bushels 

England (before the war) 8.3 bushels 

France (before the war) 7.7 bushels 

United States 2.6 bushels 

Our Crop 
1916 1917 

285,000,000 bushels 400,000,000 bushels 

Why not eat more potatoes instead of wheat? 



Questions and Exercises 

1. In order that you may have a better understanding of the great 
wheat producing countries in the world, make a list of the fourteen rank- 
ing highest in one of the last two or three years. (See some reference 
book containing such information.) 

2. What states in our country are the greatest wheat producers? 

3. Where are the great milling centers of our country? 

4. Try to find out where the flour used in your home was manufactured. 

5. Explain the process of making flour. What part of the wheat is 
used in white flour? What is done with the other part? What is graham 
flour? What is whole wheat flour? 

6. What is the difference between spring and winter wheat? 

7. How many bushels of wheat, corn, oats, barley, and rye did the 
United States produce in 1916? 

8. Compare the food value of corn and wheat. 

9. Explain the process of making corn meal. What is the corn 
heart? What food element does it contain in abundance? Is this corn 
heart used in making corn meal? How is it used? 

10. What do you think might easily happen to corn meal if stored in 
large quantities? Why? 

11. Look at the picture on page 17 and write a letter which you think 
a brave French woman would write to encourage her husband who is in the 
trenches fighting for freedom. 



24 Our Country's Call to Service 

MEATS 

Our Allies need meat. Their herds are rapidly decreasing, 
and shipments from Australia, South America, and continental 
countries have been interfered with, throwing the burden on 
North America, the nearest market. The following table shows 
the decrease in herds since 1914: 

Decrease Decrease in 

Western Other Countries 

Allies Including Enemies 

Cattle 8,420,000 26,750,000 

Sheep 17,500,000 34,000,000 

Hogs 7,100,000 31,600,000 

Total 33,020,000 92,350,000 

Our meat exports for the year ending June 30, 1916, ex- 
ceeded the average before the war by almost a hillion pounds. 
We shall need to send our Allies even more next year. We also 
need to send large quantities to our own army. Our soldiers 
need more meat now because many who ate meat sparingly when 
in private life need it twice daily as they are doing hard physical 
work. 

Do You Know 

1. That people who are not doing hard manual labor are gen- 
erally better in health if they eat less meat? 

2. That we eat more than our Allies? The following table 
gives the number of pounds per person each month : 

United States England France 

Meat 12.5 10.5 8.5 

Fat 3.4 2.2 3.6 

If our allies can maintain normal physical conditions on 
smaller portions than we use, is not our duty clear? Out of our 
abundance it is our duty and honor to save for democracy's 
sake. 

3. That eggs, cheese, and milk are good substitutes for meat"^ 

4. That beans have nearly the same food value as meat ? 

5. That one ounce of meat thrown away daily by each one of 
the 20,000,000 families in this country will amount to 
1,250,000 pounds? 

6. That this amount of meat at 25c a pound would amount to 
$312,500 a day? 



Save Meat for Our Allies 



25 




An Ounce of Meat 

An ounce of edible meat — 
lean meat, fat and lean, suet or 
fat trimmed from steak, chop, 
or roast — seems hardly worth 
saving. 

Many households take just 
this view of the matter — do not 
trouble to put such a scrap into 
the ice box or soup pot — do not bother to save for cook- 
ery a spoonful or two of drippings or a tiny bit of suet 
or fat. 

Yet if every one of our 20,000,000 American fam- 
ilies wastes each day only 1 ounce of edible meat or 
fat, it means a daily waste of 1,250,000 pounds of ani- 
mal food — 456,000,000 pounds of valuable animal food 
a year. 

At average dressed weights, it would take the gross 
weight of over 875,000 steers to equal the amount of 
meat or fat thrown into the garbage pail or kitchen 
sink. It takes millions of tons of feed and hay, the 
grass from vast pastures, and the labor of armies of 
cattlemen and butchers to provide the meat thus wasted. 
But every household doesn't waste an ounce of meat 
or fat every day. Very well ; make it one out of a 
hundred families, but keep in mind that all meat 
allowed to spoil and all meat and fat spoiled by im- 
proper cooking, scorching, or burning, must be counted 
as waste. Such waste still would be unendurable when 
meat is scarce and when fat is of such vital food im- 
portance to many nations. 

Waste of meat or fat is inexcusable. Every bit of 
lean meat can be used in soups, stews, or in combination 
with cereals; every spoonful of fat can be employed 
in cookery; every bit of drippings and gravy can be 
saved and used to add flavor and nourishment to other 
dishes. 

Wasters are Slackers 



26 



(JUT {jountry s (Jail to service 



Meats Are Wasted : 
By careless storing. 

By throwing away excess fat — all fat is usable. 
By throwing away bones — useful in soups. (Remove surplus 

fat and bone before cooking.) 
By careless cooking. 
By throwing away left overs. 
By throwing away juices and broths. 
By over-eating on the part of the individuals. 



Serve by Substituting 



The Soldiers Need 

Beef 
Pork 
Mutton 



The Folks At Home Can Use 

Poultry Cheese 
Eggs Nuts 

Fish Rabbits 





How We Must Save Meat 

1. Observe at least one meatless day a week — Tuesday. By 
meatless is meant no beef, pork, mutton, veal, lamb; no pre- 
served meat — beef, bacon, ham, or lard. 

2. Use less expensive kinds of meat — stews instead of steaks. 

3. Use more soup. 

4. Use all bits of left-over meat. 

5. Use meat extenders — rice or macaroni with tomato sauce 
and a cup of minced meat. 

6. Eat fish and other seafoods, poultry, and rabbit. (Re- 
member that no human food or labor was used to feed the fish 
that gives you nourishment.) 



Save Fats for Our Allies 27. 

WHY WE MUST SAVE FATS 

We need to save fat and pork products for our Allies. Their 
hogs are decreasing and we must send them more than ever 
before. Last year we sent our Allies three times as much but- 
ter as we used to send them. 

We use fat in many ways in the manufacture of things 
needed to win the war (glycerine, dynamite, smokeless powder, 
lubricants, etc.). Therefore as a nation ive can not afford to go 
on wasting even if we are willing to be extravagant personally. 

FOR SALE 

Fats for Cooking 
$4.50 a pound 

The above advertisement appeared in Germany, July, 1917. We 
don't want famine prices for fats in America. 



A Pat of Butter 

One pat or serving of butter is a lit- 
tle thing — there are about 64 of them 
in a pound. 

In many households the butter left on the plates 
probably would equal one pat, or one-fourth of an 
ounce, daily scraped off into the garbage pail or washed 
off in the dish pan. 

But if every one of our 20,000,000 households should 
waste one-fourth of an ounce of butter daily on the 
average, it would mean 312,500 pounds a day — 114,- 
062,500 pounds a year. 

To make this butter would take 265,261,560 gallons 
of milk — or the product of over half a million cows. 

But butter isn't eaten or wasted in every home, 
some one objects. Very well. Say only 1 in 100 homes 
wastes even a pat of butter a day — over 1,000,000 
pounds wasted. Even this is inexcusable when butter 
is so valuable a food and when every bit of butter left 
on a plate is so useful in cookery. 

We are the greatest fat tcasters in the ivorld. 



28 Our Country's Call to Service 

How TO Save Fats 

1. Do not serve fat to one who will leave it on his plate. 

2. Reduce use of fried foods — boil, broil, and bake. 

3. Save drippings, suet, and chicken fat. 

4. Save butter. Save the small amounts of butter left on plates. 
Scrape it into a "butter cup" kept for that purpose. Use it 
for "special" cooking. 

SERVE BY SUBSTITUTING 

Soldiers Need Folks at Home Can Use for Cooking 

Butter Cottonseed Oil 

Lard Peanut Oil 

Corn Oil 
Drippings 

Chicken fat makes good pastry. Solidified vegetable oils 
are valuable. Oleomargarine may be used often. Drippings 
and bacon fat are worth their weight in gold. Use these in 
any cooking. Use corn oil, cottonseed oil, peanut oil, and olive 
oil for cooking and frying as well as in salad dressings. 




Pat from Sausages Is Good for Cooking 

Make Soap of Fat Unfit for Cooking 

Use lye made by letting water drip slowly through wood 
ashes, or buy lye in cans. Use porcelain or enamel dish. Dis- 
solve 1 can lye in 1 quart cold water. Melt 5 pounds fat in 
separate dish. Strain through 2 thicknesses cheese cloth. Cool 
till lukewarm. Add dissolved, cooled lye. Stir until mixture 
is like porridge. Pour quickly into shallow pasteboard boxes 
or dripping pan. When cool, crease into cakes. Cut when 
nearly cold. Why not have a community soap making club? 

Meat Trimmings Are Valuable 
When you buy meat get the trimmings, fry out the fat, and 
use it in cooking. 

Don't Waste Any Soap 

Save pieces of soap too small to handle, melt them in a little 
water over a slow fire, use for washing dishes or boiling clothes. 



Save Fats for Our Allies 29 

REMEMBER THAT OUR SUPPLY OF BUTTER DEPENDS ON OUR 
SUPPLY OF MILK 



ONE HALF CUP OF MILK 

Half a cup of miik — whole, skimmed, or sour — a 
seemingly trifling matter — hardly worth the trouble 
to keep or use. 

In many households quite a little milk is wasted — 
left uncovered in glasses — regarded as useless because 
the cream has been skimmed off — allowed to sour — 
poured down the sink or thrown out. 

Now if every home — there are 20,000,000 of them — 
should waste on the average one-half cup daily, it 
would mean a waste of 2,500,000 quarts daily — 912,- 
500,000 quarts a year — the total product of more than 
400,000 cows. 

It takes hundreds of acres of grass and tons of 
grain to make that much milk — and an army of people 
to produce and deliver it. 

But every household doesn't waste a half cup of 
milk a day. Well, say that one-half cup is wasted in 
only one out of a hundred homes. Even this is an in- 
excusable waste when milk is so nourishing — when skim 
milk can be used in bread making or for cottage cheese. 



Milk Is Wasted : 

By careless handling. 

By discarding buttermilk (use for cookery and beverages) 
By discarding separated milk (use for cheese and cookery). 
By discarding skim milk (use for cheese and cookery). 
By discarding sour milk (use for cheese and cookery). 
By discarding whey (use in bread making). 



30 Our Country's Call to Service 

Questions and Exercises 

1. Why is it necessary for the United States to raise more cattle 
and hogs than ever before? Can you "keep a pig?'' 

2. Name the meats that are sold in your market, telling where they 
are obtained. 

3. Are any of these meats transported long distances or at much 
expense? If so, suggest possible ways of reducing this cost in time, labor, 
and money. 

4. What are some of the foods grown near your home that might 
be substituted for meats? 

5. Do you raise chickens? If so, tell what value they have been 
to you and your family. 

6. Do you raise rabbits? If so, tell of your experiences. 

7. Why are bacon and ham particularly valuable as food for our 
soldiers and Allies? 

8. Write a composition explaining the labor required to place meat 
on your table that was taken from an animal raised in some other part 
of the country. 

9. What poultry and game are available in your locality? Is it 
fresh or from cold storage? How does the price compare with other 
meats? 

10. Where are the great fisheries of this country? Where is your 
fish supply obtained? Of the fish obtainable in your market, which are 
salt water fish? Which are fresh water fish? Compare the price of beef 
per pound with that of fish. 

11. Why is fat needed as a part of our food? 

12. Is fat of greater value to the body in hot or cold weather? Why? 

13. Name several fats and oils that may be used as food, and tell 
where each is obtained. 

14. What is the price per pound of butter, lard, and some of the 
vegetable oils? Which of these do we most need for our soldiers and 
Allies? How can substitutions be made so that they will have the butter 
and lard needed? 

15. Do you think skim milk has a food value? If so, how can it 
be used? 

16. Compare the food value of cheese and meat. 

17. Ask your grocer to tell you the difference in price between skim 
milk cheese and full cream cheese. Why is there a difference? 

18. Make a list of the varieties of cheese in your market showing 
the price of each and where it is made. 



Save Sugar for Oar Allies 



31 



Eat to Live — Don't Live to Eat 





Which Needs the More Sugar, You or the Soldier? 

WHY SUGAR IS IMPOETANT 

Why do we eat sugar? You will no doubt say immediately, 
"Because it flavors our food." This is one of the chief reasons 
for its use and no doubt the reason for its excessive use, but the 
importance of sugar in our diet is to satisfy bodily needs. 

Certain Italian troops, counted the best marchers in Europe, 
keep themselves fresh by eating loaf sugar. Several years ago 
the experiment of serving out rations of sugar to troops on the 
march was tried in France. The energy of the soldiers was so 
greatly increased that, ever since, sugar has been regarded as 
an important article in the French military diet. 

Americans have come to consider a large amount of sugar 
as a necessity of life, but while it makes our food more palat- 
able, the excessive use of sugar is not only extravagant but 
may cause digestive disturbances. The amount one can eat 
depends on the amount of his muscular activity and the amount 
of other foods in the diet. 

Under special conditions of muscular exertion such as our 
soldiers are called upon to meet, the energy they get from sugar 
becomes available to the body more rapidly than energy from 
other food. It has also been found that an increase of sugar 
in the diet, when not too great, lessens or delays fatigue and 
increases working power; hence a soldier's need of it. 



32 Our Country's Call to Service 

WHY WE NEED TO SAVE 

The shortage of sugar in our country at present is due to 
two causes : 

(1) The failure of the American public to reduce their 
consumption of sugar. 

(2) The unusual exports made to France that we might 
maintain its ration which has been reduced to 6 
ounces per week per person. 

Before the war the Allies produced much of their own 
sugar and purchased the remainder from Germany. The 
amount imported from the Western Hemisphere was 300,000 
tons annually. This year they have imported 1,400,000 tons. 
Next year they will need more. 

Mr. Hoover warns us: 

''It is our stern duty to feed our Allies, to maintain their 
health and strength at any cost to ourselves. There has not 
been, nor will there be, as we see it, enough sugar for even their 
present meager and depressing ration unless they send ships 
to remote markets for it. If we in our greed and gluttony force 
them either to further reduce their ration or to send these 
ships, we will have done damage to our abilities to win the 

war.'' 

Does This Mean You? 

In a certain American city a lady stopped in a drug store 
for a light lunch at noon. She was shocked to find a large 
number of school children from homes where every need in the 
way of wholesome food was met, spending lavishly for candy. 
On inquiring of the druggist as to the effect of the war in 
decreasing the amount of candy sold, she was told that there 
had been no decrease. 

Is Young America Patriotic? 

- Perhaps you have not been told that eating less candy is 
one way of showing patriotism. 



Save Sugar for Our Allies 33 

Amount of Sugar Used per Week per Person 
(Includes sugar used in jellies, canned fruit, candy, cake, pie, etc.) 

United States W^W^ 31/2 cups 28 oz. 

England fP^ 1 cup 8 oz. 

France ^^ % cup 6 oz. 

Italy ^ 1/2 cup 4 oz. 

England, France, and Italy are living on the meager rations 
indicated. If we continue to use 28 ounces a week, the Allies 
will be forced to use even less than they are now eating, and 
the soldiers will not have the energy to withstand all the hard- 
ships of war. 

Table of Equivalents 

1 teaspoon =% tablespoon=% ounce 
3 teaspoons =1 tablespoon=% ounce 

16 level tablespoons=l cup = 8 ounces =i/^ pint 

2 cups =1 pound =16 ounces= 1 pint 

What Each Person Should Use 

The people of the United States have been eating 4 ounces 
a day, 28 ounces a week, 91 pounds a year per person. Mr. 
Hoover, after a very careful investigation of the situation, is 
asking us to reduce our amount to 

36 POUNDS PER YEAR PER PERSON 
3 POUNDS PER MONTH PER PERSON 
1% OUNCES PER DAY PER PERSON 
8 TEASPOONFULS PER DAY PER PERSON 

How many teaspoonfuls do you think you eat each day? 
Don't forget to include candy, canned fruit, pie, cake, etc. 

For a family of two — buy no more than IV2 lbs. per week 
For a family of three — buy no more than 214 lbs. per week 
For a family of four — buy no more than 3I/2 lbs. per week 
For a family of eight — buy no more than 5% lbs. per week; 

Rememher that it is your patriotic duty to eat no more than 
1% ounces (8 teaspoonfuls) per day. 



34 Our Country's Call to Service 

HOW WE CAN SAVE SUGAR 

1. Use less in coffee and tea. Stir it until it is dissolved. 

2. Try cooking breakfast food with chopped figs, dates, 
or raisins. You will not need to add any sugar at the table. 

3. Use molasses, honey, or corn syrups for sweetening. 

4. Use fresh fruits for desserts in place of rich pastries and 
sweet puddings. 

5. Use more dried fruits. They are less expensive and 
just as nutritious as the fresh. Wash in hot water. Soak over 
night. Simmer in the water in which they were soaked. The 
long, slow cooking is necessary to develop a rich flavor. Prunes 
need almost no sugar. 

6. Cut down the use of cake. Bake cookies instead. 

7. Do not use frosting unless you can make it without 
sugar. Try spreading the top and sides thinly with jelly and 
sprinkling with grated cocoanut or finely chopped almonds if 
you must have a fancy cake. 

8. Either honey or maple syrup may be substituted for 
sugar in boiled frosting. 

In substituting syrup for sugar, one cup of syrup is equiva- 
lent to one cup of sugar and one-fourth cup of liquid. 

9. Eat less candy, especially the kinds made largely of 
sugar. Food Administrator Hoover makes the following sug- 
gestions about the kinds of candy to be eaten : 

There are at least four groups of candy made from absolutely whole- 
some ingredients which are plentiful. The first includes chocolate and 
cocoa candies with centers of nuts, fruits, fruit pastes, marmalades, jams, 
and the like, especially the old-fashioned chocolate creams with the bitter 
coating, and the uncoated soft candy such as nougatines, Turkish pastes, 
and similar varieties. 

The second group includes hard boiled candies, such as lemon drops, 
stick candy, fruit tablets, peanut bars, peanut brittle, glace nuts, and the 
like, containing a large portion of corn syrup, and molasses candies. 

Marshmallows and similar candy comprise the third group, being 
made with corn syrup, corn starch, and gelatine, and only a small percent- 
age of sugar. They may be eaten plain, toasted, dipped in chocolate, or 
rolled in cocoanut. 

In the fourth group are included gum drops, jellies, jelly beans, and 
the like. 



^•1 



Save Sugar for Our Allies 



35 



Let Us Remember 



Soldiers Need 
Sugar 



We Can Use 
Molasses Fresh Fruit 

Honey Dried Fruit 

Syrup 




P. G. Holden, the farm ex- 
pert, sends out this advice. 
''Plant sugar beets in your 
garden next summer." 

It is his opinion that the 
average family can reduce its 
annual sugar bill ninety per 
cent if it raises even one 
twenty-foot row of sugar 
beets. He asserts it is pos- 
sible to avoid the hardships 
of another year of sugar 
scarcity by so doing. 

One fair-sized sugar beet 
cut in small pieces soaked in water twenty minutes and boiled, 
will make a thick syrup which can be used in cooking for season- 
ing and sweetening. 

Sugar Menu of a Certain Man 

Breakfast 

3 teaspoonfuls of sugar in grape fruit. 
2 teaspoonfuls of sugar in coffee. 
2 teaspoonfuls of sugar in cereal. 

Lunch 

1 teaspoonful of sugar in tea. 
1 teaspoonful in jam or jelly. 

1 teaspoonful in pie. 

Dinner 

2 teaspoonfuls in coffee. 
2 teaspoonfuls in dessert. 

Total for the day, fourteen teaspoonfuls. He is entitled to eight. 

Is he doing his hit? 



36 Our Country* s Call to Service 

FOR SUGAR GREED SUBSTITUTE A SUGAR CREED 



/ Relieve that I can help win the war: 

By eating less candy. 
By stirring the sugar in my cup. 
By using no frosted cakes. 
By eating raisins, figs, and dates 

when I want sweets. 
By using corn syrup and molasses 

for sweetening. 
By raising sugar beets. 
By using but 8 teaspoonfuls of sugar 

a day. 



Questions and Exercises 

1. Why is sugar a valuable food? 

2. What are some of the substitutes for it? Make a list of these, 
showing the cost of each per quart, gallon, or pound, and where it 
comes from. 

3. Explain the process of making sugar. 

4. Where are some of the large sugar manufactories in this country? 

5. Does the United States produce as much sugar as it uses? If not, 
where do we get it? 

6. Where did England, France, and Italy obtain their sugar before 
the war? Where must they get it now? 

7. There is now a large surplus of sugar in Java. Why is it diffi- 
cult for the Allies to get it? 

8. Does the Food Administration ask you to eat no candy at all? 
If not, what kind of candy may you eat and still be loyal? Why? 

9. How do you make a war-time frosting for a cake? 

10. How many teaspoonfuls of sugar are you allowed each day? 
Does this allowance include sugar used in making pies, cake, etc.? 

11. Name all the foods you can think of in which sugar is used. 

12. How many pounds of sugar should your family buy each week? 



General Directions on Food Conservation 



37 



The meat and wheat we do not eat 
May save the great cause from defeat. 



I. 



II. 



III. 



IV. 



GENERAL DIRECTIONS 

Tivo wheatless days a week (Monday and Wednesday) 

and one wheatless meal each other day in the week. Eat 

Victory bread. 

One meatless day a week (Tuesday). Meatless means no 

red meat: beef, pork, mutton, veal, lamb; no preserved 

meat : beef, bacon, ham, or lard. 

Sugar: — Reduce amount eaten to 3 pounds a month — 

1% ounces a day — 8 teaspoonfuls a day. Eat very little 

candy and reduce the use of sweet drinks. 
Eat more of our Plentiful Foods : potatoes and vegetables 
of all kinds ; poultry and rabbits ; milk and cheese. 



KEEP A WASTE RECOED 

You know that even an ounce of food wasted daily by each person 
in the United States would amount to thousands of tons of food thrown 
away. You should, therefore, do everything possible to avoid wasting 
even little crumbs of bread, pieces of butter, bits of meat, sugar, jelly, 
cheese, milk, etc., in your home. 

(1) Make a list of the foods you have seen wasted in your home, 
showing the reason why they were wasted and how they might have 
been used. Keep the list and add to it as you think of other items. 
Compare your list with those of your classmates. 

SUGGESTIVE FORM OF LIST 



Article 


Why wasted 


How it might have been used 


Meat 


Some left-over meat placed 
in cupboard and became dry 
and hard. 


Could have been ground up 
for hash or croquettes. 


Milk 


Became sour. 


Cottage cheese. 


Cheese 


Shoved back in cupboard — for- 
gotten. Became dry. 


Could have been kept moist 
in oiled paper and used. 


Batter 
for cake 


Left in mixing pan. 


Should have been scraped 
out carefully and put in cake. 



(2) Keep a record for a week showing the food left on the plate by 
each member of your family. What do you think ought to be done with 
food left on the plate? 

Example 
Sunday Monday Etc 



John Butter — potatoes 






Sarah Meat — jelly 






William Butter — sugar in 
his coffee cup 







38 Our Country's Call to Service 

WATCH YOUE KITCHEN' WASTE 
A large part of the $700,000,000 estimated food waste in 
this country is good food which is allowed to get into garbage 
pails and kitchen sinks. Don't throw out any left overs that 
can ])e reheated or combined with other foods to make palatable 
and nourishing dishes. 

Remember: 
That every bit of uneaten cereal can be used to thicken 

soups, stews, or gravies. 

That stale bread can be used as the basis for many attractive 

meat dishes, hot breads, and desserts. 

That every ounce of skimmed milk or whole milk contains 

valuable nourishment. 

Use every drop of milk to drink or to add nourisliment to cereals, 
soups, sauces, and other foods. If you do not want milk to sour, 
keep it cool, clean, and covered continually. Kemember, too, that 
sour milk, buttermilk, and sour cream are valuable in cookery; 
so do not waste any. Sour milk and buttermilk can be used with 
soda in making hot breads, or sour milk can be turned easily into 
cottage cheese, cream cheese, or clabber. Sour cream is a good 
shortening in making cakes and cookies and useful for salad 
dressings and gravies for meat. 

That every bit of meat and fish can be combined with cereals 
or vegetables for making meat cakes, meat or fish pies, etc., and 
useful in adding flavor and food value to made dishes. 

That every spoonful of left-over gravy can be used in soups 
or as flavoring for meat pies, croquettes, and vegetables. 

That every bit of clean fat trimmed from meat and every 
spoonful of drippings and every bit of grease that rises when 
meat is boiled is valuable for use in cookery. 

That when meat is boiled, the water dissolves out some valu- 
able food and flavoring material. 

Save such water for soup or for use in stews or gravies, or for 

cooking vegetables. Save and keep soup stock. Every profes- 
sional cook knows that keeping a soup or stock pot is an essential 

economy. 

That valuable food and flavoring get into the water in 
which rice and many vegetables are cooked. 

Use such water for soup making if it has an agreeable flavor. 

That careless paring of potatoes or fruits often wastes as 
much as 20 per cent of their food material. 

That the outside leaves of lettuce and the tops of many 
vegetables make desirable cooked ''greens" or salads. 



Save By Using Left-Overs 39 

HOW TO USE LEFT-OVERS 
Meat 

Use left-over meat in meat pies, meat salads, meat balls, meat dump-" 
lings, hash, meat loaf, casserole dishes, creamed meat, meat and vegetable 
stews, soups, or in omelets. 

Potato 
Combine potato with meat as above. Or make potato souflBes, soups, 
potato balls, potato pancakes, potato bread, potato cake, creamed pota- 
toes, fish balls. 

Bread 

Use for bread puddings, chicken or turkey dressing, soups, part of 
the flour in bread, cakes, griddle cakes, and biscuits. Dry it thoroughly 
and make crumbs to use on scalloped dishes for stuffing for peppers and 
whole canned tomatoes. 

Cake 

Use left-over cake for puddings. 

Vegetables 

Use left-over vegetables for salads, soups, chowders, in meat loaves, 
in casserole dishes, or as a garnish for a roast and other dishes or as 
creamed vegetables. 

Milk 

Use all the milk, whether whole or skimmed — make soups, white 
sauces, gravies, sherbets, ice cream, custards, junket, gelatin sponges, 
and Bavarian creams. Make cottage cheese and. chowders. Use it in 
scalloped dishes. Buttermilk and sour milk with soda make excellent 
quick breads, pancakes, and cakes. Milk for which there is no other 
use should go to feed chickens. 

Cheese Scraps 
Grate hard cheese and use it for macaroni dishes, sauces, and sand- 
wiches. Keep fresh cheese wrapped in a cloth dipped in vinegar and 
wrung dry. 

Give Cottage Cheese a Fair Trial 
Cottage cheese, the curd of sour milk, is one of the most important 
meat substitutes. It supplies more protein per pound than most meats 
and is considerably cheaper. Make cottage cheese sandwiches. Serve 
cottage cheese balls with salads. Combine it with chopped pimento and 
peppers and serve with salad dressing. 

For supplying protein, one pound On the basis of energy supplied, 

of cottage cheese equals: one pound of cottage cheese equals: 

1.27 pounds sirloin steak 8.33 ounces sirloin steak 

1.09 pounds round steak 11.25 ounces round steak 

1.37 pounds chuck rib beef 11.25 ounces chuck rib beef 

1.52 pounds fowl 10.75 ounces fowl 

1.46 pounds fresh ham 5.25 ounces fresh ham 

1.44 pounds smoked ham 5.0 ounces smoked ham 

1.58 pounds loin pork chop 6.0 ounces loin pork chop 

1.31 pounds hind leg of lamb 7.33 ounces hind leg of lamb 

1.37 pounds breast of veal 12.75 ounces breast of veal 



40 Our Country's Call to Service 

HOW TO KEEP FOOD 

Heat, dirt, improper handling, flies, insects, and rats or 
mice are the greatest food wasters. 

Keep perishables cool, clean, and covered. The moment meat, 
fish, milk, and eggs are allowed to get warm they ])egin to spoil. 

Bacteria and germs multiply rapidly in slightly warm food, 
and quickly make it dangerous or unfit to eat. 

Keep perishable foods in the coolest, cleanest place you can 
provide, preferably in a good refrigerator or ice house, but, 
at any rate, in covered vessels suspended in the well, or in the 
coolest, clean place in your home. 

Do not keep perishable foods in a hot kitchen or pantry or 
in a sunny place a moment longer than is necessary. 
Dry cold is a better preservative than damp cold. 
The dust particles in the air carry molds and germs. 

• Meat, fish, and milk are ideal breeding grounds of such 
germs. Keep your food covered so that these bacteria and 
germs will have as little chance as possible to get on your food. 

Protect Food Against Insects and Vermin 

House flies — better called ''typhoid flies" — are among the 
dirtiest things that enter our homes. They fly from sewers, 
privies, and manure heaps, carrying filth on their feet, which 
they deposit on any food on Avhich they alight. Frequently 
germs of typhoid fever are carried by files in the filth on their 
bodies. 

Ordinary cleanliness demands that flies be kept out of our 
homes and away from our food. 

Health protection makes it essential to banish flies. Keep 
all food covered, or at least screened from these carriers of 
deadly disease and filth. Destroy flies by every possible means. 

Rats and mice destroy millions of dollars' worth of food 
and other property every year in homes or farms, and in busi- 
ness establishments. Many rats harbor the germs of bubonic 
plague. Trap and kill them. Look upon every mouse as an 
enemy to your property. 

Kill roaches and house ants. Keep iveevils out of cereals. 

Keep your food where such pests cannot reach it. 

Keep household pets away from your food. 



Row to Store Food 41 

Store Vegetables and Fruits Properly 

Don't let fresh vegetables or fruits wilt or lose their flavor 
or begin to rot because they are handled carelessly. Keep 
perishable vegetables in cool, dry, well-aired, and for most 
vegetables, dark rather than light places. 

Learn how to store potatoes, cabbages, root crops, fruits, 
and other foods so that they will keep properly for later use. 

Don't think that any place in the cellar or pantry is good 
enough to store food. 

Heat, dampness, poor ventilation, bruising, or breaking will 
rapidly make many vegetables rot, ferment, or spoil. "Warmth 
and light make vegetables sprout and this lowers their quality. 

Can or Preserve Surplus Vegetables and Fruits 

When there is a surplus of fruits or vegetables that will 
spoil if kept, cook or stew them and keep them cold and cov- 
ered for use in a day or two. 

Can or preserve all surplus food from gardens for winter 
use. In a morning's work with ordinary home utensils, you 
can put up many cans of vegetables and fruit for winter use. 
If you have no garden, watch the markets. . When any fruit 
or vegetable that can be canned becomes plentiful and cheap, 
buy a quantity and can it for home use next winter. 

Avoid Losses in Cooking 

Save water in which vegetables were boiled. Make cream 
soups by using this water to thin a white sauce, and season as 
desired. Vegetables and leaves which cannot be used for any 
other purpose can ''do their bit" in the soup kettle. 

Boil potatoes in their jackets. Much valuable material lies 
close to the skin of a potato. 

Potatoes, pared before boiling, lose into the water in which 
they are cooked about one-fifth of the iron they contain; peas 
and beans lose from one-third to two-fifths, and spinach one- 
half of the total amount present. The amount of iron in our 
foods is small. Its importance to the body is great. We 
should consume it to the greatest possible extent. To do this 
we should either steam our vegetables or use the water in which 
they are cooked. Peel potatoes after cooking. 



42 Our Country's Call to Service 

Some Expensive Mistakes 

In Serving: 
Too large quantities placed on individual plates. 
The same amounts served to each, regardless of appetite. 
The same foods served to each, regardless of taste. 
Elaborate entertaining. 

hi Eating: 
By eating more than is needed. 
By eating foods in wrong proportions. 
By eating too rapidly; less food is required if eaten slowly and chewed 

thoroughly. 
By serving one's self more food than is wanted (butter, bread, etc.). 
By eating crusts and discarding soft portion, and vice versa. 
By placing excess of sugar in tea and coffee. (Undissolved sugar 

in cup is wasted.) 

Some Ways of Waste 

Vegetables Are Wasted: 
By careless storing. 
By taking thick parings, sometimes 20 per cent of edible portion. 

Save food by cooking in jackets. 
By discarding small sized vegetables. 
By discarding water in which vegetables are cooked. Steaming saves 

food material. 
By discarding leaves and stem (beet tops, turnip tops, outer stalks 

and leaves of celery). 
By overcooking. 
By undercooking. 

By cooking larger quantity than is needed. 
By discarding left-overs. 

Good Food of All Kinds Is Wasted: 
If it gets into the garbage pail. 
If allowed to spoil in the home. 
If ruined by careless cooking. 
If carelessly pared and trimmed* 
If too much is served at a meal. 

Food Money Is Wasted: 

By ordering by price instead of weight. 

By buying perishable foods in too large quantities. 

By buying "out of season" goods (strawberries in December). 

By buying too freely ready-to-eat foods (breakfast foods, canned 

soups). 
By buying much food that is high in price but low in food value 

(asparagus tips, oysters, pimentos, and mushrooms). 
By "living out of paper bags.'' 

By buying staple foods in small packages (corn meal, rice). 
By buying for wants rather than for needs. 



A Message from General Pershing 



43 





KEEP it COMING 

We must not only 
feed our Soldiers 
at the Front but I 
the millions of ; 
women £r children j 
behind our lines " 



WASTE NOTHING 



VH-ITJSC 



T-OOO 



J^ p ^•^z X ** I s T* 12 ^. 'I* j 



A 



UNLESS WE SAVE FOOD THE LINE WILL BE BROKEN 



44 



Our Country's Call to Scnice 







3 

d 


II 


cc 




cr 




cc 








1—1 


li: 




CO 








CM 


|| 


lO 


00 


■ 


O 


(M 


l-H 


(M 








t^ 
t^ 


< 

Q 
-< 


1 


2 

<! 
d 


|l 


- 


T— ( 




O 


T-H 


- 


CM 






t^ 


o 


J. 

1-^ 


o 


- 


'^ 


- 


o 


(M 


- 






o 


l^ 


< 

S 


1 


<; 
w 

d 


P 


o 


- 


o 


(N 


-H 


- 


o 






^ 


o 


Jl 


- 


o 


-^ 


- 


o 


- 


(M 






CO 


l^ 


< 


1 


o 


|l 


- 


^ 


o 


(M 


o 


- - 






CC 


o 


c3 CO 


- 


- 


^ 


O 


o 


- 


- 






lO 


t^ 




1 


2 

d 


|i 


o 


-^ 


o 


- 


o 


O 


^ 






CO 


o 


Jl 


- 


oq 


oq 


CO 


- 


C^ 


CO 








c. 


Q 

p 




CO 

1 


|i 


- 


CO 




CO 


o 


- 


CO 






CM 


CM 


jl 


o 


- 


- 


- 


o 


- 


- 






LO 


t^ 


<: 
Q 

o 


1 


2 

<! 

d 
2; 


P 


O -H 


- 


T— 1 


o 


- 


CM 






CO 


o 


|i 


c^ 


(M 


(M 


<M 


1— 1 


CO 


CO 






lO 


CM 


< 
z 


i 


2 
-< 

d 


|i 


o 


r— 1 


o 


- 


o 


- 


CM 






LO 


o 




o 


- 


- 


- 


o 


- 


- 






to 


!>. 


1 


1 

z6 


3 
3 

3 




a 

1 




S- 

c 




£ 




> 
1 

c 

p 






> 


■» 


.2 




00 


oi 


< 




o 2 



WW 









iSr 




sgs^ 






6*^§ 






llfl 






2^ o^ 






srJ 




-3 ^^2 


o 


ilo§ 


a 


==t^ai 






1 

o 


-^ S ° fe 2 

1^1^ i 


J 


. cSt3 C! 


it 








2«?-i-isl3 


H--^ c 


■73 03 O « cS 


Sis 


^^1 





JtS O 3 3 c4 



i-2 -oj^ 






^ 6 M^g §"S 0.3 

-flrao,<K3o 

O -S+^-So C3 (U 5j 

!>-" +J 4J fl 0) fe 

- Qj <n 03 «0 Si 

g^ -^ 

> u a 



Keep a Co)iservatio)i Record 



^5 



h4 

S 




3 

< 
c 






































1 












< 

CO 


1 

1 


2 

<; 

d 
















1 










t5~ 












1 
1 

1 








1 




Q 


1 


CO 

< 


1- 
















































Q 


1 


2 

s 

d 

:z; 


Si 
























II 
























Q 

Q 


1 

CO 


a:: 
d 


s- 














■ 










ll 
























< 
Q 


:3 

1 


CO 

<| 
d 


p 
















































Q 


CO 


d 


1 " 
























ll 

si 
























< 
Q 


1 


< 

d 


1- 
























r^ — 






1 




















"o 


-5 




d 


CO 


■^ 


iC 


1 


1 


00 


ci 


^ 

s 
g 


1 ^' 

+j en 



.2 >- 



^ 03 

(B IB 

'o'o 
m CO 

CI a 

O o 

ca 
^>' 

S 03 

SS 
o o 



*^ 3 a; 

^ a; « 



^2 M 

1^1 . 

O . - M 

"5, i?! S'x 
C ^ C3 O 

ao g a 
■« o -5 

O M . CI 
?? «-i^ o 

S > ^ o 
<=1 0) a; o 

■C^ -^ '^ 
+^+^ tH S 



Es o -^ a 



00 o3 ^ S 
<U ^ (-. 



t^ S 3 

»j H 02 

OaS| 

S:go3g 
n o i« '^ 

c3 « ^ 



46 Our Country's Call io Service 

Study the Conservation Records on pages 44 and 45. Keep 
a record for your own family, to see how much you are doing 
to help win the War for Democracy. Remember : 

A country worth living in is worth 
fighting for, ivorking for, saving for. 



CONSERVATION RECIPES 

CONTENTS 
A— The Balanced Diet (pages 48-53) 
B^Wheat Saving Recipes (pages 54-58) 
C — Meat Saving Recipes (pages 59-62) 
D — Sugar Saving Recipes (pages 63-68) 
E — Special Recipes for Vegetables (page 69) 
F — Food for Children (pages 70-71) 

Half the fun of eating is in trying new dishes! 



47 



48 Our Country's Call to Service 

A— THE BALANCED DIET 

Eat Something from Each of These Five Groups Every Day 

Group I — Mineral Matter, Acids and Body Regulators 

FRUITS AND VEGETABLES furnish some of the material 
from which the body is made and keep its many parts working 
smoothly. They help prevent difficulties which give you head- 
aches and made you stupid. The kinds you choose depend 
upon the season, but remember that the cheaper ones are often 
as valuable as the more expensive. 

Group n — Protein (Building) Foods 

MILK, EGGS, FISH, MEAT, PEAS, BEANS— these help 
build up the growing body and renew used-up parts. That is 
their main business. Dried peas and beans make good dishes 
to use in place of meat part of the time, but don't leave out the 
other foods entirely. Milk is the most important. Buy at least 
a pint a day for every member of your family. No other food 
ean take its place for children. Save on meat if you must, but 
don't skimp on milk. 

Group III — Starchy Foods 

CEREALS — Bread and breakfast foods. These foods act 
as fuel to let you do your work, much as the gasoline burning 
in an automobile engine makes the car go. This you can think 
of as their chief business. And they are usually your cheap- 
est fuel. Besides, they give your body some building material. 

Don't think that wheat bread is the only kind of cereal 
food. The Government asks us to save wheat to send abroad 
to our soldiers and the Allies. Let the North try the Southern 
corn bread and the South the oatmeal of the North. Half the 
fun of cooking and eating is in trying new things. Oat- 
meal muffins are delicious. See page 55 for the recipe. 
Group IV — Foods for Sugar 

SUGAR AND SYRUPS are fuel, too, and they give flavor 
to other foods. They are valuable food, but many people eat 
more of them than they need. Sweet fruits, of course, contain 
much sugar and are better for the children than candy. 
Group V — Foods for Fat 

FAT is fuel — Some is needed especially by hard-working 
people. Remember that expensive fats are no better fuel than 
cheap ones. Use drippings. Don't let your butcher keep the 
trimmings from your meat. They belong to you. Children 
need some butter fat. Give it to them in plenty of whole milk 
or in butter. 



The Balanced Diet 



49 



GROUP I 

Eat Vegetables and Fruits for Mineral Matter, Acids, and Body 
Regulators. Eat Freely of All These 



Apples 

Apricots 

Asparagus 

Bananas 

Lima Beans 

Beets 

Blackberries 

Cabbage 

Carrots 



Cauliflower 

Celery 

Green or Canned 

Corn 
Cucumbers 
Grapes 
Lemons 
Lettuce 



Muskmelon 
Onions 
Oranges 
Parsnips 
Peaches 
Pears 

Green or Canned 
Peas 



Pineapple 

Rhubarb 

Spinach 

Squash 

Strawberries 

String Beans 

Tomatoes 

Turnips 



GROUP II 



Eat These Foods for Protein. Eat Sparingly of Those Printed in 
Italics ; Eat Freely of All Others 



Beans 


Pork 


Skim Milk 


Peanuts 


Soy 


Fish 


Mutton 


Peas 


Lima 


Fowl 


American Cheese 


Rabbits 


Navy 


Game 


Nuts 


Veal 


Beef 


Lamb 


Oysters 


Cottage Cheese 


Eggs 




GROUP III 





Eat These Foods for Starches, Eat Sparingly of Those Printed in 
^TALics But Freely of All the Others 



Barley 
White Bread 
Cake 

Green or Canned 
Corn 



Cornflakes 
Corn Meal 
Soda Crackers 
Graham Crack- 
ers 



Wheat Flour 
Hominy 
Macaroni 
Oatmeal 
Rolled Oats 
White Potatoes 



Sweet Potatoes 
Rice 
Rye 
Tapioca 
Wheat Break- 
fast Foods 



GROUP IV 



Eat These Foods for Sugar. Eat Sparingly of the One Printed in 
Italics. Eat Freely of the Others 



Dried Apples 
Cane Syrups 
Corn Syrup 



Dates 
Honey 
Maple Syrup 



Molasses 
Dried Peaches 
Prunes 



Raisins 

Sorghum 

Sugar 



GROUP V 

Eat These Foods for Fat. L^se All of These Foods Sparingly. Be 
Especially Careful in the Use of Those Printed in Italics 

Bacon Cocoa Lard Peanut Butter 

Butter Corn Oil Oleomargarine Peanut Oil 

Chocolate Cream Olive Oil Salt Pork 



50 Our Country's Call to Service 

MEAL PLANS 

Study your meals. Plan them for at least three days in 
advance. This helps you to buy to better advantage, gives 
variety in material and preparation. 

Ask yourself the following questions about your meal: 

Does this plan mean — 

1. The use of home grown products and thus allow the rail- 
roads to be hauling supplies for the army instead of food 
for my family? 

2. The substitution of milk, cheese, eggs, fish, game, beans, 
nuts, and peas for beef, mutton, and pork? 

3. The use of barley, buckwheat, corn, oats, potatoes, and rye 
instead of wheat? 

4. Plenty of whole milk for the children? 

5. Twelve ounces of fat per adult per week and six ounces 
per child per week? The substitution of the vegetable fats 
wherever possible? 

6. The substitution of honey, molasses, corn syrup, or other 
syrup for sugar, so as to reduce the amount of sugar used 
to three pounds or less per person per month ? 

7. Meals adapted to the season and pocketbook? 

8. Meals which include at least one food from each of the 
Food Groups named above? 

The following gives a day's ample. nourisliment: 

Breakfast 
Group I. Prunes 
Group 11. Eggs — Milk 

Group III. Graham Muffins — Oatmeal or Baked Potato 
Group IV. Jam 
Group V. Butter 

Lunch or Supper 

Group I. Vegetables in Salad 
Group II. Milk to Drink 
Group III. Corn Meal Muffins 
Group IV. Honey in Honey Cakes 
Group V. Butter — Salad Dressing 

Dinner 

Group I. Spinach — Apple in Pudding 
Group II. Fish — Egg and Milk in Pudding 
Group III. Potatoes — Eye Bread 
Group IV. Sugar in Coffee and in Pudding 
Group V, Butter — Cream in Coffee 



A Victory Menu 



51 



< 

p 
H 

ai 


1 


III. Corn Flakes 
II. Milk 

III. Oatmeal muf- 

fins 

IV. Jam 
II. Cocoa 


II. Lima bean loaf* 
III. Bread 

V. Butter or oleo 
I. IV. Canned 
peaches 


II. Lamb stew 
Peas (I) 
Onions (I) 
Turnips (I) 
Potatoes (III) 

III. Bread 
V. Butter or oleo 

III. Baked graham 
pudding 
(Re-heated in 
double boiler) 

I, IV. Lemon sauce 


< 
Q 


ii 

II 


i j| 

KSrt mo 


1 i 
1 i. 1 

a S mSS 

„- d >dd 


lillj 

Jif.151 

d 5>:- 




i 


.11 

d>d> 


^1 1 1 

II ' 1 -s 

i.is|l|8?1 

o w mmmo 


d ^ 3 b':- 


-< 

Q 
Q 


If 


-^ o 8 
OPQ mo 


li 
1=11 11. 


'S.Mi E« 
^- Ph o Eh 






sis 


i-Jiul 


mmm 


o 




- o 8 

iJlli 


d »-^' sa 


1 «l St*^ 

1 "'"-i' 

HH ^' d> ". 




.si 


8, Jl 
a T3-^o 8 


rm°o^||"|l2l 
d >>dd >'~'d>" 


« g g^ 2> g 1 g 

3 3 !l!- Sd 


« 




i 


O 

3 


Q 



c3 p3 oj w 



3 ^ Ss'S 
^ ^i"' S ^ o 2 

^ =2 *« ., C) -fi 1> 

'5 ft— .Q o .is: <u 

CQ > rrt ™ "-1 C3 

O <u , .2 =^ rt fl 

■^•^^ c^S 
o o ^ >>C irf '^ 
+j c3 o o o^ 

rJ CC f-l ^ l-r ft 

C p S. t. 03 c bfi 

.2 .cS"a5.2 



52 Our Country's Call to Service 

SPECIAL EECIPE8 FOR THE VICTORY MENU 
Lace Cakes (Sunday) 

1 teaspoonful melted butterine i/^ teaspoonful vanilla 

% Clip sugar 1 teaspoonful baking powder 

1 Qgg 1^/4 cup rolled oats 
1/4 teaspoonful salt 

Mix and let stand 20 minutes. Drop bits on a greased pan, spread 
out with a knife and bake in a slow oven 20 to 30 minutes. If the 
mixture runs, more oatmeal should be added. 

Cottage Pie (Monday) 

Put the left over baked potatoes from Sunday dinner through the 
meat grinder. Season well and line a greased baking dish with them. In 
the center place any left over chopped meat and gravy. Cover with 
more potato and bake in a hot oven 20 minutes. 

Cherry Juice Pudding (Monday) 

Take juice drained from the sauce served the night before. To 1 
cup juice add % cup water and beat. Mix 3 tablespoons cornstarch 
with y2 cup cold water and slowly add the hot liquid. Cook until smooth 
and clear. Serve hot or cold. 

Rice and Nut Cakes (Tuesday) 

Take left over rice from breakfast (reserving some for the tomato 
soup on Wednesday). To 2 cups rice add i/4 cup chopped peanuts. 
Season with salt and celery salt. Press into flat cakes, roll in corn meal 
and brown on both sides in a little fat. 

Baked Graham Pudding (Tuesday) 

2 cups dry bread crumbs 1 cup graham flour 

(put through meat grinder) 1 teaspoon cinnamon 

1 cup molasses V2 teaspoon cloves 

1 cup sweet milk % teaspoon salt 

4 tablespoons melted drippings 1 beaten egg 

1 cup raisins 

Beat all well, put into a buttered pan and bake slowly for about 
45 minutes. This pudding keeps well and may be reheated in the double 
boiler. It is best warm. It may be served with milk or any pudding 
sauce. 

Buckwheat Gems (Wednesday) 

2 cups buckwheat flour 2 tablespoons sugar 

1 teaspoon salt 2 tablespoons melted drippings 

1 teaspoon baking powder 1 beaten egg 

1 teaspoon soda 1 cup sour milk 

Mix and sift ingredients, add fat and beaten egg to sour milk. 
Combine mixtures and beat well. Bake in greased muffin tins. 



Recipes for Victory Menu 53 

Economical Cake (Wednesday) 

% cup sugar ^ cup butter substitute 

% cup molasses 1 teaspoon cinnamon 

1 cup chopped dates % teaspoon cloves 
1 cup water 

Boil all except the dates for 3 minutes. Cool, mix and sift 1 tea- 
spoon soda, 2 cups flour, % teaspoon baking powder. Add the dates, then 
combine with the other mixture and bake about 1 hour. 

Meat and Potato Short Cake (Thursday) 

Take any left over meat and potatoes from Wednesday, chop fine, 
season, make more gravy if necessary and pour over part of the biscuits 
that have been split open. 

Rye and Corn Muffins (Friday) 

% cup corn meal ^2 teaspoon salt 

11/4 cup rye 1 beaten egg 

1^ cup sugar 2 tablespoons melted drippings 

5 teaspoons baking powder 1 cup milk 

Bake in a hot oven 20 to 25 minutes. 

Vegetable Loaf (Friday) 

% cup dry bread crumbs % cup milk 

% can peas % tablespoon sugar 

1 egg % teaspoon drippings 

% cup English walnuts 2 tablespoons drippings 

Mash peas, mix all ingredients. Let stand 15 minutes. Cover and 
bake in a slow oven 30 minutes. 

Polenta (Friday) 

Make fresh mush of 1 cup corn meal to 3 cups water or use any 
left over. Cook 1 cup tomatoes, 2 tablespoons drippings, 3 tablespoons 
chopped onion, 1 teaspoon salt, and ,% teaspoon pepper. Place a 
layer of mush in a greased baking dish. Cover with tomato mixture, 
add corn meal and another layer of tomato. Sprinkle with i/4 cup 
grated cheese and bake until heated through. 

Lima Bean Loaf (Saturday) 

1 cup dry lima beans % cup boiling water 

1 onion - 1 teaspoon salt 

1 egg 1/4 teaspoon mustard 

1 carrot 2 tablespoons drippings 

1 cup crumbs 

Soak beans over night. In morning add onion and carrot and 
cook until beans are tender. Drain, saving liquid for soup. Put through 
meat chopper with carrot and onion, add other ingredients, pack into 
a greased pan and bake 30 minutes. Serve with tomato sauce made from 
tomatoes left from Friday. 



54 Our Country's Call to Service 

B— WHEAT SAVING RECIPES 
SAVE THE WHEAT— USE CORN AND OATS 

Make it a principle to incj-ease the use of corn meal to the maximum. 
Pound for pound, the energy value of corn meal is equal to that of wheat 
flour. Every time corn meal is used where before we used wheat pro- 
ducts, we are helping to win the war. 

Have corn meal mush for breakfast; add figs, dates, or other fruit, 
for variety; serve fried mush; use corn meal in quick breads, ytjast 
breads, desserts. The breads are light, palatable, and capable of frequent 
use in the weekly dietary. Likewise, make the maximum use of oatmeal 
or rolled oats. Omit all wheat breakfast cereals. Use oatmeal or rolled 
oats, and secure variety through adding fruit. Use rolled oats to con- 
serve one-fourth the wheat in making muffins, rolls, and yeast-raised 
bread. 

Proportions and Directions 

All measurements are level, and flour is measured after sifting. Pro- 
portions are for Minnesota flour. 

REAL CORN BREAD 

2 cups buttermilk. % teaspoon soda. 

1 egg. 1 teaspoon salt. 

Corn meal to make a thin batter. 
Beat egg, add buttermilk. Then sift dry ingredients, beat well and 
bake in hot oven in a thin sheet or in gem pans. 

CORN MEAL MUFFINS 

1 cup milk or water (8 ounces) 1 to 2 tablespoons sugar (%-l oz.) 
1^ cups flour (5]/^ ounces) 1 egg (2 ounces) 

2/^ cup corn meal (Sy^ ounces) 4 teaspoons baking powder (% oz.) 

1 to 2 tablespoons fat (%-l ounce) i/^ teaspoon salt (% ounce) 

Method I: Mix milk, egg, and melted fat, and add dry ingredients, 
well mixed. 

Method II: Scald corn meal with the hot milk; add egg, melted fat, 
and dry ingredients. 

CORN MEAL GRIDDLE CAKES OR WAFFLES, I 

1 cup milk (8 ounces) 2 teaspoons baking powder (% oz) 

% cup flour (3 ounces) ^^ teaspoon salt {% ounce) 

% cup corn meal (3% ounces) I egg (2 ounces) 

Add beaten egg to milk and add to dry materials, well mixed. 

CORN MEAL GRIDDLE CAKES OR WAFFLES, II 

1 cup sour milk (8 ounces) 1 teaspoon baking powder (% oz.) 

% cup flour (3 ounces) % teaspoon salt (Vk ounce) 

% cup corn meal (3% ounces) 1 egg (2 ounces) 
% teaspoon soda (l/14th ounce) 



Wheat Saving Recipes 55 

INDIAN PUDDING 

% cup corn meal (3% ounces) 3 tablespoons sugar (1^ ounces) 

1 quart milk (32 ounces) or 

1% teaspoon salt (% ounce) y^ cup molasses (4i/^ ounces) 

Heat the milk. Sift in the corn meal as in making mush. Add 
salt and sugar. Turn into buttered baking dish, put dish in pan of 
water, and bake very slowly 2^^ to 3 hours. Serve with hard sauce, 
cream, or crushed fruit. 

OATMEAL MUTFINS, I. 

% cup milk (4 ounces) 1% cups flour (6 ounces) 

1 cup cooked oatmeal or rolled oats 2 tablespoons sugar ( 1 ounce) 

1 egg (2 ounces) i/^ teaspoon salt (% ounce) 

2 tablespoons fat (1 ounce) 4 teaspoons baking powder (y^ oz.) 
2 tablespoons fat (1 ounce) 

Cook oatmeal, using one part oatmeal to two parts water. A larger 
proportion of water makes too soft a mush and gummy muffins. Mix 
milk, oatmeal, egg, and melted fat. Add dry ingredients after sifting 
them together. Bake 25 to 30 minutes. This makes 10 to 12 muffins. 

OATMEAL MUFFINS, II. 

1% cups milk (12 ounces) 1 teaspoon salt (l^ ounce) 

2 eggs (4. ounces) 2 cups rolled oats (5i/^ ounces) 

2 tablespoons fat (1 ounce) 1 cup flour (4 ounces) 

2 tablespoons sugar (1 ounce) 4 teaspoons baking powder (1 oz.) 

Pour milk over oats and let soak one-half hour. Add eggs and 
melted fat. Add to dry ingredients, which have been sifted together. 
Bake 25 to 30 minutes. This makes 10 to 12 muffins. 

USE CORN AND OATS IN BREAD MAKING 

Corn meal yeast bread, satisfactory in texture and mild in flavor, 
can be made using 20 per cent by measure or 25 per cent by weight ox 
total cereal as corn meal. The flavor of white corn meal is less distinc- 
tive and the bread made from it differs in color from that of the usual 
wheat loaf less than that made from the yellow meal. These breads 
may be made by combining dry corn meal with the flour, but the product 
is less satisfactory than that in which the meal is first cooked as for 
corn meal mush. The manipulation is the same as for wheat bread, 
except that it is a little more difficult to knead into the mush the full 
amount of flour and the dough is somewhat softer and stickier. Baking 
should occur in a slower oven, and should continue over a longer period — ■ 
at least an hour. 

Oatmeal yeast bread is coarser than wheat bread, and is not unlike 
graham bread in appearance. It has a sweet, nutty flavor, much liked by 
persons who care for whole wheat or dark breads. Some care is necessary 
in combining the rolled oats with the mixture. The most satisfactory 
method has been found to be that of pouring the hot liquid over the 
rolled oats, allowing the mixture to cool rather slowly (about half an 
hour). Longer soaking of the oats produces a somewhat moister bread. 
The manipulation is the same as for wheat bread. The dough is a bit 
softer. Baking requires about 45 minutes. 



56 Our Country's Call to Service 

Proportions and Directions 

All proportions are for one loaf. The amount of yeast provides for 
a very short process — 3I/2 to 4 hours. One-half the yeast suggested will 
make bread in 5 hours. 

One cake of dry yeast used as a starter should produce yeast for six 
loaves. In all cases the amount of liquid should be equal to that added 
with the compressed yeast in the recipe given. 

CORN MEAL YEAST BREAD (1 LOAF) 

1^/4 cups milk and water or water ^ cup corn meal (3]/^ ounces) 

(10 ounces) 2^^ cups flour (9^ ounces) 

2 tablespoons sugar (1 ounce) % cake compressed yeast (^4 ounce) 

1 tablespoon fat (V2 ounce) 

2 teaspoons salt (V2 ounce) 

Add sugar, fat, and salt to liquid, and bring to boiling point. Add 
corn meal slowly, stirring constantly until all is added. Remove from 
fire, cool mixture, and add compressed yeast softened in % cup warm 
water. Add 2]/^ cups flour and knead. Let rise until about double its 
bulk, knead again, and put in the pan. When light, bake in a moderate 
oven for at least an hour. 

In mixing the dough the flour and corn meal are to be us^ed as sep- 
arate ingredients, because the corn meal must be scalded or a grainy 
bread results. When the corn meal mixture is removed from the stove, 
the housewife will doubt her ability to add the amount of flour called 
for. The flour will work in, as required, but a stiff er, stickier dough 
than that to which she is accustomed will result. 

OATMEAL YEAST BREAD (1 LOAF) 

1 cup milk and water, or water 1 cup rolled oats (2% ounces) 

(8 ounces) 2% cups wheat flour (10 ounces) 

1 teaspoon salt (^4 ounce) % cake compressed yeast {V^ ounce) 

1 tablespoon fat (V2 ounce) ^/4 cup warm water (2 ounces) 

2 tablespoons sugar (1 ounce) 

Scald liquid and pour it over the rolled oats, sugar, salt, and fat. 
Let stand until lukewarm (about half an hour). Add yeast softened in 
warm water. Add flour and knead. Let rise until double its bulk. 
Knead again and place in pan. When light, bake in a moderate oven 
from 45 to 60 minutes. 

BARLEY, RYE, RICE, OR POTATO FLOUR YEAST BREADS 

Barley yeast bread. — Bread may be made using wheat flour and 
barley flour in mixtures containing from SSy^ to 50 per cent barley flour. 
The bread containing one-third barley flour is light, palatable, and of 
especially pleasant flavor. A larger percentage produces a heavier, 
darker bread of pronounced barley flavor. The manipulation for this 
bread is the same as for wheat bread. The conditions and time for 
baking are also the same. The loaf is smaller. 



Wheat Saving Recipes 57 

BARLEY YEAST BREAD 

1 cup milk and water, or water 1 teaspoon salt (l^ ounce) 

(8 ounces) 1% cups barley flour (4 ounces) 

1 tablespoon sugar (% ounce) 2]/^ cups wheat flour (9]/^ ounces) 

1 tablespoon fat (i/^ ounce) % cake compressed yeast (i/4 ounce) 

Soften the yeast in part of the liquid. Combine ingredients. Mix 
into a dough. Knead and let rise to double original bulk. Knead again. 
Put in the pan, and when again double in bulk bake about 45 minutes. 

Rye yeast bread. — Commercial rye breads are made of a mixture of 
wheat and rye flours, known in the trade as 50-50. Rye flour has much 
less expansion than wheat flour; hence the loaves are smaller. The 
manipulation is the same throughout as for wheat bread. 

Proportions and directions: 

RYE YEAST BREAD 

1 cup milk and water, or water 2M: cups rye flour (7 ounces) 
(8 ounces) 2i/4 cups wheat flour (9 ounces) 

1 tablespoon fat (i^ ounce) l^ cake compressed yeast (V^ ounce) 

2 tablespoons sugar (1 ounce) 2 tablespoons water ( 1 ounce) 
1 teaspoon salt (i/4 ounce) 

Combine ingredients. Mix into dough and knead. Let rise until 
double original bulk. Knead again. When again double bulk, bake 
about 45 minutes. 

Rice yeast bread. — Rice has many other uses, as in puddings, etc. 

Cooked rice, combined with wheat flour makes delicious muffins and 
yeast bread. There are many ways of cooking the rice. The basic 
principles may be stated as follows: First, cook the rice so as to con- 
serve all mineral matter and other soluble products. 

Method: After the rice is thoroughly washed it should be put in a 
thick iron kettle or stoneware baking dish, cold water added so that the 
water stands three-quarters of an inch to an inch clear above the rice. 
A heavy or weighted cover should be used to seal the dish. Cook slowly 
over direct heat or in the oven until all the water has been absorbed and 
the grains are soft and steam escapes from the vessel. This is the 
Japanese method. The second method, more frequently used in the 
United States, is to use a very large amount of boiling water to a small 
amount of rice, the rice being added slowly enough not to stop the 
boiling. The water is boiled briskly 20 minutes, or until the kernels are 
tender. Then it is drained in a colander or strainer, set on the back of 
the stove or put in a slightly warm oven or in a pan over hot water, to 
dry off a bit. There results a fluffy mass of large, plump grains, each 
perfectly distinct in itself, instead of the gummy mush so often served 
as boiled rice. 

The rice yeast bread is very white in color, is moister than wheat 
bread, and keeps moist longer. It is handled in much the same manner 
as wheat bread. The first dough, however, is much stiffer, and after once 
rising the light dough is so soft that it cannot be kneaded with the 
hands. It should be well stirred with a strong spoon and placed in the 
pans, looking much like a stiff drop batter. After baking the upper 
crust is less smooth than that of our familiar wheat flour loaf. 



58 Our Country's Call to Service 

RICE YEAST BREAD 

(These amounts make two large or three small loaves of bread.) 

% cup milk and water or water 7 cups boiled rice 

(4 ounces) 8 cups flour (32 ounces) 

4 tablespoons sugar ( 2 ounces) % cake compressed yeast (^ oz.) 

4 tablespoons fat (2 ounces) % cup warm water (2 ounces) 
1% teaspoons salt (% ounce) 

Scald liquid if milk is used. Pour over fat, sugar, and salt. Cool 
and add yeast, moistened in i^ cup warm water. Add rice and flour and 
knead. After second rising bake 45 minutes. 

Potato yeast bread. — Boiled potatoes, mashed and combined with 
wheat flour may be used in making a bread of good flavor and texture. 
The potato bread is slightly darker in color than patent flour bread and 
is also somewhat more moist. It is relished by persons who do not care 
for any but so-called ''white-bread." Two manipulations are satis- 
factory. Either all the flour may be added in the first mixture, making 
a dough which is very stiff and difficult to knead or a part of the flour 
may be reserved and added with the second kneading. In either case 
the dough is soft at the second handling, but after baking it produces 
a satisfactory loaf. 

POTATO YEAST BREAD 

(The following amounts make three loaves of bread.) 

1/2 cup milk and water or water 4 cups boiled potatoes 

(4 ounces) 8 cups flour (32 ounces) 

4 tablespoons sugar ( 2 ounces) % cake compressed yeast (V^ oz.) 

4 tablespoons fat (2 ounces) l^ cup warm water (2 ounces) 
1% teaspoons salt (% ounce) 

CONSERVATION PIE CRUSTS 

Corn Meal Crust 

Grease a pie plate well. Cover with raw corn meal, giving the plate 
a rotating motion so that an even layer of the meal will stick to the 
plate about ^ of an inch in thickness. Fill the plate with pumpkin 
pie mixture. Bake in a hot oven. 



Oatmeal Crust 

2 cups finely ground oatmeal 
1 cup boiling water 



1 teaspoon fat 

Scald the oatmeal with the water. Add fat and mix thoroughly. 
Roll very thin and line small pie or tart tins with the mixture. Bake 
in a hot oven. Fill with apricot marmalade or other thick mixture. 



Meat Saving Recipes 59 

C— MEAT SAVING RECIPES 

3IAKE A LITTLE MEAT 00 A LONO WAY— USE SAVORY 

STEWS AND MEAT PIES 

Do you know how good they are? They may be so varied that you 
can have a different one every day in the week, and all of them delicious. 
It needs only a small piece of meat to give flavor to a hearty dish. 

Don't think you must eat a lot of meat to be strong. Meat is good 
to help build up the body, but so are many other foods. 

In these dishes part of your building material comes from the more 
expensive meat and part from the cheaper peas, beans, hominy, and 
barley. The little meat with the vegetables and cereals will give your 
body what it needs. 

HOW TO COOK THE STEWS 

All kinds of stews are cooked in just about the same way. Here 
are directions which will serve for making almost any kind. 

Cut the meat in small pieces and brown with the onion in the fat 
cut from the meat. Add the salt and pepper, seasoning vegetables 
(onion, celery tops, etc.), 2 quarts of water, and the rice, or other cereal, 
if it is to be used. Cook for an hour, then add the vegetables except 
potatoes. Cook the stew for half an hour, add the potatoes cut in quar- 
ters, cook for another half an hour, and serve. 

The fireless cooker may well be used, the meat and the vegetables 
being put in at the same time. 

Left-overs or canned vegetables need only to be heated through. 
Add them 15 minutes before serving. 

Dried peas or beans should be soaked over night and cooked for three 
hours before adding to the stew; or, better, cook them over night in a 
fireless cooker. 

SAVORY STEWS 

Try them. They can be a whole meal and a nutritious one. These 
recipes serve five people. 

Here is an English stew that is especially good: 

HOT POT OF MUTTON AND BARLEY 

1 pound mutton 4 potatoes 

% cup pearled barley 3 onions 

1 tablespoon salt Celery tops or other seasoning herbs. 

Cut the mutton in small pieces, and brown with the onion in fat cut 
from meat. This will help make the meat tender and improves the flavor 
Pour this into a covered saucepan. Add 2 quarts water and the barley. 
Simmer for 1% hours. Then add the potatoes cut in quarters, season- 
ing herbs, and seasoning, and cook one-half hour longer. 



60 Our Country's Call to Service 

BEEF STEW 

1 pound beef M^ peck peas or 1 can 

4 potatoes cut in quarters i/4 cup carrots cut up small 

1 teaspoon salt 

Cut the meat in small pieces and brown in tlie fat from the meat. 
Simmer in 2 quarts of water for one hour. Add the peas and carrots 
and cook for one-half hour, then add the potatoes. If canned peas are 
used, add them 10 minutes before serving. Serve when potatoes are 
done. 



MEAT PIES 

Another good way to use a little meat. Have you ever used rice, 
corn meal mush, or hominy for a crust? This is less work than a pastry 
crust and saves wheat. 

4 cups cooked corn meal, rice, or % teaspoon pepper 
hominy 1 tablespoon fat 

1 onion 1 pound raw meat or left over meat 

2 cups tomato cut up small 

% teaspoon salt 

Melt the fat, add the sliced onion, and if raw meat is used, add it 
and stir until the red color disappears. Add the tomato and seasoning. 
If cooked meat is used, add it with the tomato and seasoning, after the 
onion is browned, and heat through. Grease a baking dish, put in a 
layer of the cereal, add the meat and gravy, and cover with the cereal 
dotted with fat. Bake for half an hour. 



DIFPERENT STEWS 

Here is the way you can change the stews to make them different 
and to suit the season: 

1. The meat. — This may be any kind and more or less than a pound 
may be used. Use the cheap cuts, the flank, rump, neck, or brisket. 
The long, slow cooking makes them tender. Game and poultry are good. 

2. Potatoes and barley may be used or barley alone, or rice, hominy, 
or macaroni. 

3. Vegetables. — Carrots, turnips, onions, peas, beans, cabbage, 
tomatoes are good, canned or fresh. Use one or more of these, as you 
wish. 

4. Parsley, celery tops, onion tops, seasoning herbs, or chopped 
sweet peppers add to the flavor. 

5. Many left-overs may be used — not only meat and vegetables, but 
rice or hominy. 



Meat Saving Recipes 61 

TAMALE PIE 

2 cups corn meal ' 1 pound Hamburger steak 
21/^ teaspoons salt 2 cups tomatoes 

6 cups boiling water ^2 teaspoon Cayenne pepper or 

1 onion small chopped sweet pepper 

1 tablespoon fat 1 teaspoon salt 

Make a mush by stirring the corn meal and li/^ teaspoons salt into 
boiling water. Cook in a double boiler or over water for 45 minutes. 
Brown the onion in the fat, add the Hamburger steak and stir until the 
red color disappears. Add the tomato, pepper, and salt. Grease a bak- 
ing-dish, put in a layer of corn meal mush, add the seasoned meat, and 
cover with mush. Bake 30 minutes. 



RABBIT IN CASSEROLE 

1 rabbit 2 cups meat stock or thickened gravy 

% cup drippings or other fat 1 tablespoon lemon juice 

1 cup hot water Bit of bay leaf 

Dress the rabbit and separate into pieces at the joints. Season with 
paprika and salt. Cook in the fat until a golden brown. Transfer the 
meat to a casserole with one cup of hot water and cover. Bake in a 
moderate oven about one-half hour, then add the stock or gravy, lemon 
juice, and bay leaf. Continue cooking in the oven about three hours. 



A WHOLE DI:NNER IN ONE DISH 



Mother will like it ; Father will like it ; You will like it ; the Pocket- 
hook will surely like it. Your Bodies can't help liking it. ''XJucle Sam" 
is bound to like it. Everybody will like the one-dish dinner. Why? 

A dish hot and savory — good for work or play — that is why the 
father and the children will like it. 

Easy to cook and serve — that is one reason why mother will like it. 
Only one dish to cook, few plates to wash, steps saved. 

This dinner is good nourisliing food for it contains all the body 
needs for work and strength. 

This dinner helps you do your part for your country. You can save 
wheat and meat to ship abroad. Our soldiers and the Allies need them 
more than we do. 



62 Our Country's Call to Service 

TEY THESE 0XE-DI8H DINNERS 

Each of the following dishes is enough for a family of five. Each 
contains all five kinds of food needed. Eat them with bread and with 
fruit or jam for desert. 

riSH CHOWDER 

Rabbit, fowl, or any meat may be used instead of fish, or tomatoes 
instead of milk. Carrots may be omitted. 

iy2 pounds fish (fresh, salt, or canned) 

9 potatoes, peeled and cut in small pieces 

1 onion, sliced 3 cups milk 

2 cups carrots cut in pieces, pepper 

1/4 pound salt pork 3 tablespoons flour 

Cut pork in small pieces and fry with the chopped onion for five 
minutes. Put pork, onions, carrots, and potatoes in kettle and cover 
with boiling water. Cook until vegetables are tender. Mix three table- 
spoons of flour with one-half cup of the cold milk and stir in the liquid 
in the pot to thicken. Add the rest of the milk and the fish v/hich has 
been removed from the bone and cut in small pieces. Cook until the fish 
is tender, about 10 minutes. Serve hot. You can omit salt pork and 
use a tablespoon of other fat. 

DRIED PEAS WITH RICE AND TOMATOES 

1% cups rice 1 tablespoon salt 

2 cups dried peas % teaspoon pepper 

6 onions 2 cups tomato (fresh or canned) 

Soak peas over night in two quarts of water. Cook until tender in 
water in which they soaked. Add rice, onions, tomato, and seasonings 
and cook 20 minutes. 

POTTED HOMINY AND BEEF 

Hominy is excellent to use as part of a one-dish dinner, if you have a 
fire in your stove so that you can cook it for a long time, or use a fire- 
less cooker. Heat 1% quarts of water to boiling; add 1 teaspoon of salt 
and 2 cups of hominy which has been soaked overnight. Cook in a double 
boiler for four hours or in the fireless cooker over night. This makes 
5 cups. This recipe may be increased and enough cooked in different 
ways for several meals. Hominy is excellent .combined with dried, 
canned, or fresh fish, or meat and vegetable left-overs may be used. 
Here is one combination. 

5 cups cooked hominy % pound chipped or ground beef 

4 potatoes 2 cups milk 

2 cups carrots 2 tablespoons fat 

1 teaspoon salt 2 tablespoons flour 

Melt the fat, stir in the flour, add the cold milk, and mix well. 
Cook until it thickens. Cut the potatoes and carrots in dice, mix all the 
materials in a baking dish, and bake for one hour. 



Sugar Saving Recipes 63 

D_SUGAR SAVING RECIPES 

PATRIOTIC COOKIES 
GINGER COOKIES 

5 cups of flour (3 cups white flour, 1 teaspoon baking powder 

2 cups rye flour) i/^ cup molasses or sorghum 

1/^ cup brown sugar % cup melted fat 

1 tablespoon ginger 1 tablespoon vinegar 

% teaspoon salt % cup water 
1 teaspoon soda 

Sift together the flour, soda, and spice; mix the water, sugar, molasses, 
and fat, and add gradually to the dry ingredients. Mix well. Chill. 
Eoll on a floured board to % inch thickness. Cut with a floured cutter. 
Bake in a moderate oven (185 deg. C to 190 deg. C) for about 10 minutes. 
This makes about ninety cookies. 

HONEY DROP COOKIES 

% cup honey % teaspoon soda 

1/4 cup fat 2 tablespoons water 

1 egg 1 cup raisins, cut in small pieces 

1^ cup w^hite flour Vi teaspoon salt 

% cup of rice flour 

Heat the honey and fat until the fat melts. Sift together the flour, 
soda and salt. To the cooled honey mixture add egg, well beaten, water, 
and raisins. Add gradually to the dry ingredients. Drop by spoonfuls 
on a greased sheet. Bake in a slow oven (180 deg. C to 185 deg. C) for 
about 12 to 15 minutes. This makes about 42 cookies. 

y^ teaspoon cinnamon and % teaspoon of cloves may be added to the 
hociey mixture. 

CHOCOLATE PEANUT COOKIES 

1/^ cup corn syrup 1 egg 

% cup sugar (brown) 5 teaspoons baking powder 

% cup fat % cup peanuts or walnuts 

% cup milk % teaspoon salt 

2% cups white flour ^2 teaspoon vanilla 

% cup corn flour 2 squares chocolate 

Cream sugar and fat, add syrup, melted chocolate, salt, vanilla, and 
beaten egg; sift flour with baking powder and add alternating with milk 
to first mixture. Add nuts dredged in flour last. Drop from spoon on 
cookie sheets. Bake at 190 deg. C to 200 deg. C. 



64 Oitr Country's Call to Service 

OATMEAL DROP COOKIES 

1% cups flour 21^ teaspoons baking powder 

2 cups rolled oats V2 cup corn syrup 

% cup brown sugar % cup milk 

% teaspoon cinnamon % cup melted fat 

% teaspoon salt % cup raisins, seeded and cut into 

% teaspoon cloves halves 

^ teaspoon nutmeg 

Sift together the flour, salt, spices, and baking powder; add raisins 
and oatmeal. To the corn syrup and melted fat, add milk and brown 
sugar. Add liquid mixture gradually to the dry ingredients. Stir well. 
Drop by small teaspoonfuls on greased baking sheet. Bake about 15 
minutes in a moderate oven (195 deg. C to 210 deg. C). This makes 
about 72 cookies. 

WAR CANDIES 
MOLASSES CANDY 

% cup corn syrup 1 tablespoon vinegar 

11/4 cups molasses or sorghum 1 teaspoon fat 

Boil first three ingredients until it becomes brittle when dropped in 
cold water (132 deg. C). This is the crack stage. Add fat and soda. 
Remove from fire, beat well, and pour into greased tins. When cool pull 
until light in color. Cut in one inch pieces. 

MAPLE DROPS 

2 cups maple sugar 1 tablespoon fat 

% cup water or milk 1 cup chopped nuts 

Cook the water and sugar to the soft ball stage or until a little 
dropped into cold water forms a firm, soft ball (114% deg. C). Add 
butter and nuts. Cool slightly. Beat until mixture begins to thicken, 
then drop from a tablespoon on a greased plate. The candy may be 
varied by adding candied cherries or chopped raisins or figs, or six 
marshmailows to the hot mixture and beaten until candy begins to 
thicken. 

HONEY CARAMELS 

1 cup milk % cup corn syrup 

i/i cup honey Pinch of salt 

1 teaspoon fat 

Heat the honey and the corn syrup to the boiling point. Add the milk 
gradually, stirring constantly. Cook the mixture until it forms a firm, 
soft ball when dropped into cold water. Turn into a greased pan and cut 
in squares when cold. Chopped nuts may be added just before taking 
from the fire. 



Sugar Saving Recipes 65 

PEANUT BRITTLE 

2 cups maple sugar % cup chopped peanuts 

Pinch of salt 

Boil syrup until it becomes brittle when dropped into cold water. 
Scatter chopped nuts over a greased pan and pour over them the cooked 
syrup. Mark in squares before candy is hard. 

MAPLE rONDANT 

5 cups of brown or maple sugar l^ cup water 

Place over fire and heat to the soft ball stage (113 deg. C), or until 
candy forms a soft ball w^hen dropped in cold water. Pour on a greased 
platter. Let cool. Stir with a wooden spoon or a wooden butter paddle 
until mixture becomes creamy; then knead in the hands. Form in balls 
and put two halves of walnuts, or dip in melted chocolate and let harden 
on oiled paper. 

]\" pie Cream Patties may be made by melting fondant over hot 
watc . Drop the melted fondant from a teaspoon on oiled paper. 

GUM DROPS 

3 tablespoons granulated gelatin 2 teaspoons cornstarch 

1% cups cold water 2 cups of light brown sugar 

1 cup of hot water 

To make Gum Drops, soak the gelatin in the cold water for three 
minutes. Then stir the cornstarch thoroughly through the soaked gelatin. 
Place the brown sugar and cup of hot water on the fire and when the 
sugar is dissolved add gelatin. Boil slowly for about 25 minutes. Re- 
move from the fire and when partially cool add the desired flavoring 
and beat for about five minutes, or until the mixture has a cloudy ap- 
pearance. Pour in a bread pan which has been rinsed out with water. 
When firm, cut in cubes and roll in powdered sugar. Use for flavoring 
oil of cinnamon, peppermint, wintergrecn, etc. 

MAPLE DIVINITY 

1 cup maple White of 1 egg (stiffly beaten) 

^/4 cup. water % teaspoon vanilla extract 

% cup chopped nuts 

Boil sugar and water until it forms a soft ball (133 deg. C) when 
dropped in cold water. Pour the hot mixture over the stiffly beaten 
white of egg, beating constantly. Add nuts and flavoring and beat until 
candy stift'ens. Drop from a spoon on a greased platter. 

SUGARLESS SWEETS 

1 cup stoned dates 1 cup nut meats 

1 cup seeded raisins Pinch salt 

Run all through a food chopper and form into balls. Dip balls into 
melted dipping chocolate and drop on a greased platter. 



66 Our Country's Call to Service 

BUTTERSCOTCH 

1 cup corn syrup y^ cup fat 

1 cup brown sugar 

Boil together until it will crack in cold water. Pour into a buttered 
plate. 

SUGARLESS QUICK BREADS 

TEA BISCUITS 

iy2 cups flour V2 teaspoon salt 

1/4 cup barley flour 2 tablesjjoons fat 

4 teaspoons baking powder % cup milk 

Mix and sift dry ingredients. Cut in fat. Add milk gradually. Eoll 
out about V2 inch thick. Mix % cup nut meats with % cup maple sugar 

1 tablespoon melted butter, ^ teaspoon cinnamon. Spread sugar 
mixture lightly over dough. Eoll carefully and cut off slices V^ inch 
thick. Bake in a moderate oven (200 deg. C to 210 deg. C). This 
makes about 12 biscuits. 

DAFFODIL BISCUITS 

Use recipe for Tea Biscuits. 

Omit sugar mixture and add 2 tablespoons of honeyed orange peel 
to the soft dough before rolling out. This may be varied by adding 2 
tablespoons of crystallized ginger in place of the orange peel and 1 cup 
of whole wheat in place of 1 cup of white flour. 

HONEYED ORANGE PEEL 

2 oranges % cup strained honey 

Boil th.e peel from 2 oranges in water until it is tender. Eemove as 
much of the white as possible. Cut in % inch strips wdth the scissors. 
Boil % cup of strained honey until it reaches 104 deg. C or cook for 
about 5 minutes. Eemove peel and lay on a plate to cool. Cut in 
small pieces and put in baking powder biscuits. 

FIG CRESCENTS 

Eoll biscuit dough. % inch thick. Cut out with a large floured cut- 
ter. Spread % with filling. Fold over and press together. Pull the 
straight side until a crescent shape is assumed. Bake in a moderate 
oven (200 deg. C to 210 deg. C) about 10 to 12 minutes. 

FIG FILLING 

% pound figs 1 tablespoon lemon juice (add after 

2 tablespoons corn syrup cooking) 
y^ cup boiling water 

Wash and dry figs. Chop fine. Mix ingredients in order given and 
cook until thick enough to spread. 



Sugar Saving Recipes 67 

DATE OR RAISIN MUFPINS 

2 tablespoons glucose or corn syrupi/^ cup chopped raisins or dates 

% teaspoon salt 1 egg 

4 teaspoons baking powder 1 cup milk 

2 cups flour (1 cup white flour, 1 3 tablespoons fat 

cup rye) 

Mix and sift dry ingredients. Add milk, beaten egg, corn syrup, and 
floured raisins or dates. Pour into greased muffin tins and bake in a 
moderate oven (200 dog. C to 210 deg. C) about 20 to 25 minutes. This 
recipe makes 10 muffins. 

COFFEE CAKE 

2 cups flour 4 tablespoons corn syrup 

% cup white, % cup corn flour i/^ cup milk 

4 tablespoons fat 1 egg, well beaten 

4 teaspoons baking powder i/^ teaspoon salt 

Mix and sift the dry ingredients. Cut in the fat. Add the corn 
syrup, milk, and egg. Spread % inch thick in a well greased pan. Mix 
1% tablespoons of syrup (either corn or maple) and 1 teaspoon of cin- 
namon. Spread lightly over the top. Scatter % cup chopped peanuts 
over the syrup. Bake in a moderate oven at first. Raise the tempera- 
ture to brown the cake. (190 deg. C to 220 deg. C.) 

WAR TIME CAKES A^'D FROSTINGS 
MAPLE SYRUP CAKE 

Va cup brown sugar V2 teaspoon salt 

% cup fat (% butter and % V2 cup barley flour 

vegetable fat) 2 teaspoons baking powder 

2 well beaten eggs V2 teaspoon soda 

1 cup maple sugar V2 cup warm water 

2 cups flour 
Cream fat and sugar. Add beaten eggs and syrup. Mix and sift dry 
ingredients. Add dry ingredients and milk alternately to the first mix- 
ture. Bake in three layers. Bake in a moderate oven at first and raise 
the temperature to brown the cake when fully risen. (Oven temperature 
185" C to 210° C.) 

COCOANUT SPICE CAKE 

3% cups flour 

2% cups white flour, 1 cup rye 

1 teaspoon ginger 

% teaspoon cloves 

1 teaspoon cinnamon 

V4, teaspoon salt 

1 teaspoon soda 

Sift together the flour, spices, salt, and soda. Add the boiling water 
to the fat, molasses, and corn syrup. Add this liquid gradually to half 
of the sifted dry ingredients. Beat the eggs; stir into the batter; add 
the remainder of the dry ingredients and the cocoanut. Half fill muffin 
cups, well greased, with this mixture. Bake in a moderate oven (185° G 
to 195° C) for about 25 minutes. This makes about 30 cup cakes. 



1 


cup cocoanut 


% 


cup corn syrup 


1% 


cup molasses 


% 


cup boiling water 


V2 


cup fat 


2 


eggs 



68 Our Countri/'s Call to Service 

CHOCOLATE EGGLESS CAKE 

ly^ cups brown sugar % cup cocoa 

4 tablespoons fat 1% cups flour 

1 cup sour milk 1 cup white flour (% cup rice 

1 teaspoon soda flour) 

^2 teaspoon cream of tartar 1 teaspoon vanilla 

Cream the butter; add the sugar and mix thoroughly. Mix and 
sift the dry ingredients. Add the dry ingredients and the liquid alter- 
nately to the fat mixture. Flavor with vanilla. Bake in a moderate 
oven (185° C to 195° C) about 20 minutes. This makes a two layer 

MAPLE SYRUP FROSTING 

1 cup maple syrup 1 white of egg, well beaten 

Boil syrup until it spins a thread (117° C). Beat egg well and pour 
hot syrup over it, beating constantly with an egg beater. When it 
begins to thicken, spread on cake. This will frost a three layer cake. 

CHOCOLATE FUDGE FROSTING 

iy2 tablespoons fat % cup corn syrup 

y^ cup unsweetened powdered few grains salt 

cocoa % cup milk 

1 cup brown sugar % teaspoon vanilla 

1 teaspoon gelatin 

Melt fat; add cocoa, brown sugar, corn syrup, salt, milk, and 1 tea- 
spoon gelatin soaked in 1 tablespoon water. Heat to the boiling point 
and boil from 3 to 5 minutes or until thermometer reaches 113° C. Eemove 
from the fire and beat until creamy. Add vanilla and pour over cake. 

MARSHMALLOW FILLING 

1 cup brown sugar White of 1 egg 

% cup water Few drops vanilla 

1% ounce marshmallows (about 12) 

Cook sugar and water without stirring until it reaches the thread 
stage (112° C). Add syrup slowly to the beaten white. Add marsh- 
mallows cut in pieces. Beat mixture until cool enough to spread. Add 
flavoring. 



Special Vegetables Recipes 69 

E— SPECIAL RECIPES FOR VEGETABLES 
Eat All the Potatoes You Want 
Eat them three times a day. Serve them baked, boiled, riced, 
mashed, warmed over, creamed, with fish, and in soups. Use them in 
making pancakes, bread, rolls, and biscuits. Use them to take the place 
of part of the wheat bread. Never waste them. Their starch and 
mineral content is valuable. 

Learn to Use Beans 

Soy Beans Navy Beans Lima Beans 

Make bean soup, baked beans, succotash, bean loaf or roast, bean 
purees. 

Baked Soy Beans 

iy2 cups yellow soy beans Soak beans 12 hours, put in baking 

1/^ cup navy beans dish in which the salt pork, onion, 

y^ cup sugar sugar and mustard have been 

1^ teaspoonful mustard placed. Cover with cold water 

1 small onion and cook in a slow oven at least 

% pound salt pork 12 hours 

Lima Bean Boast 
1 pint dried Lima beans Soak beans 12 hours. Cover with 

% pint peanuts water and boil until tender. Press 

% pint stale bread crumbs through colander. Put peanuts 

1 teaspoonful onion juice through colander. Mix with bean 

1 teaspoonful salt pulp 

Pepper 

Put the Peanut on Your Table 
Peanuts are a valuable food. They contain as much protein as beans. 
They are comparatively cheap. Learn to use them. 

Peanut Soup 
l'Y2 pint peanuts celery, and onion; boil this slowly 

3 quarts water 4 or 5 hours stirring frequently 

1 bay leaf to prevent burning, or boil 15 

% cup celery minutes and place in fireless 

1 slice onion cooker over night. Eub through 

1 quart milk sieve and return to fire. When 

Soak peanuts overnight in 2 quarts again hot add the milk and let 

of water; in the morning, drain, soup boil up; then season and 

add remaining water, bay leaf, serve 

Peanut Loaf 

1 cup roasted peanuts salt and pepper, add enough milk 

2 cups bread crumbs to make a moist loaf. Add more 
V4, cup melted fat seasoning if desired. Put into a 
% teaspoonful onion juice greased tin or mold, bake for one 
1 egg hour in a moderate oven, cover- 
% teaspoonful salt ing the first half of the time. 
% teaspoonful pepper Turn out on a hot dish, sprinkle 
Milk with chopped peanuts and serve 
To the peanuts, bread crumbs, melt- with brown sauce. 

ed fat, beaten egg, onion juice, 



70 Our Country's Call to Service 

F_FOOD FOR THE CHILDREN 

Give the children their chance. They ought to have it and you 
want to give it to them. They must have the right food. 

Think how fast the child grows. The new muscles and bones and all 
the other parts of the body are made from the food which the child eats. 

Give him clean, wholesome, simply cooked food — plenty of milk, 
cereals, vegetables, fruit, and egg or some meat occasionally. 

Wrong food — too little, too much, or wrong kinds — hurts the child's 
chance of being the strong, healthy boy or girl you want. 

Eight food — may mean: 

Strong Bodies Good Brains 

Eosy Cheeks Bright Eyes 

Help your child to grow big and strong. 

Here's Good Food for the Youngsters 

Milk and plenty of it, makes them grow — a quart each day if you can. 
Put it on their cereal and in their cups. Make it into soups, puddings, or 
custards. Try the recipes on page 71 and watch them smile. 

Whole milk is best, of course, but skim milk is good if there is 
a little butter in his meals. Cottage cheese is good, too. 

No coffee or tea — not even a taste. Leave them for the grownups. 
Milk, cocoa, not too strong, and fruit juices are the drinks for children, 
and plenty of water always. 

Fruit they enjoy, and they need it, too — baked apples, apple sauce, 
thoroughly ripe bananas, prunes, oranges, etc. Give them vegetables 
fresh or canned. Plenty of fruits and vegetables tend to prevent consti- 
pation. Use proper food and do not depend upon laxatives. 

Other foods a child needs: (1) Whole wheat bread, not too fresh, 
corn bread, well-cooked oatmeal, corn meal, rice; they help make strong 
boys and girls. (2) Some fats, butter or margarine or meat fats on his 
bread or in gravies. (3) An egg, perhaps, particularly if he doesn't get 
his full quart of milk; or he can have a little meat or fish, but he does 
not need much of this kind of food. 

Sweets are good for them — the right ones at the right time. Dates, 
raisins, stewed fruits^ simple puddings, sugar cookies, are better than 
candy. Give them at meal times. 

Between meals let them have bread and butter, a cracker, or fruit. 
These won't spoil the appetite, and candy will. 



Meat Saving Recipes 71 

WELL-PLANNED MEALS FOR CHILDREN 
Here are two sets of the right kind for your youngster. Grown 
people will like them too. If sometimes these seem too much work, bread 
and milk alone will make a good meal. 

Breakfast 
No. 1 No. 2 

Apple sauce. Stewed prunes. 

Oatmeal with milk. Cocoa (weak). 

Milk to drink. Toast and butter. 

Dinner 

No. 1 No. 2 

Stew, with carrots, potatoes, and Fish, with white sauce. 

a little meat. Spinach or any greens. 

Whole wheat bread. Corn bread. 

Creamy rice pudding. Milk to drink. 
Milk to drink. 

Supper 
No. 1 No. 2 

Cream of bean soup. Baked potato. 

Crackers and jam. Apple Betty. 

Milk. Milk. 

GOOD DISHES FOR CHILDREN 
These dishes are good for children and grown-ups too. 
The recipes provide enough for a family of five. 

MILK- VEGETABLE SOUPS 

1 quart milk (skim milk may be 2 cups thoroughly cooked vegetable 

used) finely chopped, mashed, or put 

2^ tablespoons flour through a sieve 

2 tablespoons butter or margarine Spinach, peas, beans, potatoes, celery 

or other fat or asparagus make good soups 
1 teaspoon salt 

Stir flour into melted fat and mix with the cold milk. Add the cooked 
vegetable and stir over the fire until thickened. If soup is too thick, 
add a little water or milk. 

RICE PUDDING 

1 quart milk % teaspoon salt 

y^ cup rice % teaspoon ground nutmeg or cin- 

Ys cup sugar namon 

V2 cup raisins or chopped dates 

Wash the rice, mix all together, and bake three hours in a very slow 
oven, stirring now and then at first. This may be made on top of the 
stove in a double boiler, or in a fireless cooker. Any coarse cereal may 
be used in place of rice. 

For more suggestions, send to the U. S. Department of Agriculture 
for Farmers' Bulletin 717, ''Food for Young Children." It tells more 
about feeding children and the reasons why right food is so important. 
It shows every mother how to give her children their chance in life. 



PART TWO 



THE HOME GARDEN 




THIS GIRL DID HER BIT 

She raised over fifty dollars' worth of vegetables in a plot 50 ft. by 50 ft. 
Can't ijoii do as ivellf 



73 



74 Our Country's Call to Service 



THE VOLUNTEER WAR GARDEN ARMY 

(A Summons to Young America, by President Wilson) 

Every boy and girl who really sees what the home 
garden may mean will, I am sure, enter into the. purpose 
with high spirit because I am sure they would all like to 
feel that they are in fact fighting in France b.y joining 
the home garden army. 

They know that America has undertaken to send 
meat and flour and wheat and other foods for the sup- 
port of the soldiers who are doing the fighting, for the 
men and women who are making the munitions, and for 
the boys and girls of western Europe, and that we must 
also feed ourselves while carrying on this war. 

The movement to establish gardens, therefore, and to 
have the children work in them is just as real and pa- 
triotic an effort as the building of ships or the firing of 
cannon. I hope that this spring every school will have 
a regiment in the volunteer war garden army. 



The Home Oar den 75 

WHY YOU SHOULD RAISE A HOME GARDEN 

There are at least five reasons why every American boy or 
girl who can, should raise a home garden : 

(1) As the preceding lessons in this book have shown you, 
the food supply for us and our Allies is insufficient. 
Your back yard can help make it sufficient. DonH let 
your yard he a slacker. 

(2) Our railroads are greatly overcrowded carrying war 
supplies. Every pound of food that is brought to you 
from some other part of the country takes space in a 
freight car that might be used for munitions of war. 
It doesn't take any freight cars to carry vegetables from 
your backyard garden to your kitchen. Help lighten 
the load that our railroads must carry. 

(3) The vegetables you grow yourself will reach your table 
fresher and with finer flavor than any you can buy. 
// you have never eaten home-grown vegetables, raise 
a backyard garden and give yourself and your family 
a treat. 

(4) It costs money to buy vegetables; why not save it? A 
garden 25x40 feet if carefully tended will produce most 
of the vegetables needed for a family of four or five 
people for several months. Such a garden will save 
your family many dollars. Your country needs those 
dollars! Loan theyn to the government, by investing 
them in War-Savings Stamps {see page 105) or Liberty 
Bonds. 

(5) Gardening is one part hard work (which is just as 
good exercise as baseball) and two parts fun. Start 
your garden with hope, enthusiasm, and determination; 
you iviU end in success, pleasure, and patriotic service. 



Somebody has to raise everything you eat. 
Why not be Somebody? 



76 Our Country's Call to Service 

GENEEAL SUGGESTIONS 

When you have decided that you will have a home garden 
there are several problems that you will need to consider care- 
fully if your efforts are to succeed. 

Location and Size of Plot 

A well drained, light, fertile soil, slightly sloping to the 
south or west is to be preferred for a garden. However, if you 
cannot get just what you want, make the best choice of what 
is offered you. 

If you live on a farm, your home garden should be located 
as near the house as possible on land offering the best kind of 
soil and drainage conditions. A field 20 to 30 rods from the 
house is generally best for all purposes. Such a garden gives 
plenty of room and permits long rows with space enough be- 
tween them so that farm tools and teams may be used. 

If you live in a town or city, your home garden must often 
be located in the back yard or on a vacant lot. In many cases 
the owner of the lot is glad to have it used without charge, 
because gardening keeps down weeds and changes an unsightly 
lot into an attractive spot in the community. Avoid much 
shade and hard, infertile soil. Do not choose a spot where 
the garden will be tramped upon or where the drainage is bad. 
But if poor ground is the only thing you can get, it may be 
made productive by the addition of good fertilizing material, 
by thorough preparation of the soil where you plant the seeds 
and by frequent hoeing after the plants appear. 

The size of the plot is a matter of great importance. If you 
have never had experience in gardening, do not make the 
mistake of laying out too large a plot. A garden 25x40 feet if 
carefully tended will produce sufficient vegetables for a small 
family, and will not require a discouraging amount of work. 

Fertilizing the Soil 

If the soil is not rich, fertilize with well rotted barn-yard 
manure or other needed fertilizing material, working it in well. 
While it is best to apply this in the fall, it may be applied in 
the spring. Avoid strawy material or any but well rotted 
manure. Remove brickbats, ashes, or anything else which will 
not make a fine, mellow, fertile l3ed for the seeds. In some 
city or town home gardens it may be necessary to spread sev- 
eral inches of good, rich black dirt on the plot. 



General Suggestions 11 

Preparing tlie Seed Bed 

The preparation of the seed bed (the soil into which the 
seeds are to be placed) is very important. Vegetables must 
have a loose, fertile soil, well pulverized, deep enough so that 
their roots may go down easily for plant food so that they may 
develop rapidly every day during the growing season. A 
poorly prepared seed bed can never be made right after the 
seeds are planted. Poorly prepared seed beds grow stunted, 
tough, ill-flavored vegetables. 

If your garden is to be plowed, first remove all trash, then 
distribute the fertilizing material evenly. Make sure that the 
ground is well plowed and harrowed when dry enough so that 
it will not become lumpy and hard later. 

If your garden is not one that is to be plowed, spading, if 
thoroughly done, will prepare the soil satisfactorily. Spade 
deeply enough to make a fine, mellow seed bed. 

But the soil for the garden, can hardly ever be made fine 
enough by spading alone. In most cases the soil for the seed 
bed should be smoothed and pulverized more by the use of the 
hand rake. The surface of the soil should be pulverized to a 
depth of several inches. It should be uniform and free from 
lumps. All stones and trash should be removed. The smaller 
the seed the finer the seed bed must be, although all of our 
vegetable seed require a well prepared seed bed and a surface 
which is smooth and fine. 

Do not raise the seed bed above the common level unless 
your garden is in a very wet place which needs drainage. The 
raised seed bed allows the soil to dry out, which is generally 
just what we do not want, especially during the hot months 
when vegetables grow rapidly and need plenty of moisture. 

The Best Vegetables to Grow 

As soon as the size of the garden has been determined, make 
a list of the vegetables you want to plant. Select only a few 
of the most important vegetables and do not try to grow too 
many varieties. A large number of varieties are rarely evei' 
profitable and they are hard to grow. Do not select uncom- 
mon varieties. Select the varieties which grow and sell well 
and which may be canned for winter use. 



78 Our Country's Call to Service 

As a rule, only five or six of the most important vegetables 
should be grown. Several early crops should be grov^n. The 
following vegetables are suggested for early planting before 
the time arrives to plant tomatoes : onion sets, radishes, lettuce 
beets, early bush peas, and early bush beans. 

The onion sets, lettuce, peas, and radishes can be planted 
just as early as the ground can be plowed and properly pre- 
pared. 

, The beets should be planted about a week later than the 
radishes, while the bush beans must not be planted until all 
danger of frost is past. The beans are tender plants and will 
freeze easily while the onions, radishes, peas, and lettuce, and 
beets are hearty plants and can stand a little frost. 

The tomatoes must not be planted until later in the season. 
They are tender plants and do not like cold. 

Don't waste space and energy by growing crops that take 
large areas. All of the space in a small garden is too valuable 
to plant any of it to potatoes and vine crops. If you have 
time to plant and care for such space-consuming crops borrow 
a vacant lot on which to grow them. 

Make a Plan of Your Garden 

Measure your lot and then plan your garden on paper. In 
making the plan first take care of the winter vegetables ; the 
summer vegetables will take care of themselves. Plan to make 
every foot of the garden produce the maximum by growing 
vegetables that ripen quickly between the rows of crops that 
are slower in growth and in the rows to be devoted to late- 
planted vegetables. 

Study the garden plan on page 79 and follow it as a model. 
Locate the permanent crops first and then work in the tem- 
porary ones. The permanent crops to grow for the winter sup- 
ply are beets, late cabbage, carrots, onions, parsnips, rutabagas, 
turnips, tomatoes, and possibly celery, beans and salsify. 

Plant Good Seed 

One of the essentials of a good garden is good seed. It 
does not pay to plant inferior seeds. Buy only from a reliable 
dealer or secure seed grown in the neighborhood by some re- 
liable person, even though you may have to pay a little more 
for it. When you have grown a good variety, save your own 
seed for the next year. 



Home Garden Plan 79 



STRING BEANS 

EARLY TURNIPS AND LATE TOMATOES 

PEAS 

...EARLY TURNIPS AND ' LATE TOMATOES 

PEAS 

SPINACH OR LETTUCE AND LATE TOMATOES 

FIRST SEEDING LETTUCE OR LETTUCE PLANTS 

SECOND SEEDING LETTUCE 

PLANT 2 INCHES APART 

*ONION SETS \ PULL ALTERNATE ONES AND USE . 
AS GREEN ONIONS 

BEETS 

BEETS 

CARROTS 

CARROTS 

CARROTS 

PARSNIPS 

PARSNIPS 

SALSIFY BEETS OR CARROTS 

FIRST RADISH CELERY SPINACH 

17 EARLY CABBAGES 18 INCHES APART 

...SECOND RADISH CELERY THIRD RADISH 

EARLY PEAS CABBAGE (Set plants 2 ft. apart 

) 
..EARLY PEAS CABBAGE (Set plants 2 ft. apart) 

BEANS ' 

TURNIPS 

BEANS 

TURNIPS WINTER RADISH ICICLE RADISH 



25 '0' 



*0r seed. 



80 Our Country's Call to Service 

Planting 
Amount of seed necessary for a 100-ft. row: 

Beans: Carrots, % oz. Potatoes, 1 pk. 

Green, 1 pt. Corn (sweet), 1 pt. Pumpkins, % oz. 

Lima, 1 pt. Cucumbers, i/^ oz. Squash (winter), % 

Snap, 1 pt. Lettuce, % oz. oz. 

Wax, 1 pt. Onion Sets, 1 qt. Tomatoes, 2 doz. 

Beets, 1 oz. Parsnips, 1 oz. plants. 

Cabbage, V^ oz., or Peas, 1 pt. 
buy plants. 

Most vegetables should be planted as early in April as the 
conditions of soil and weather will permit. This will vary with 
different vegetables according to whether they are hardy or 
tender. 

Plan to make several plantings of peas, radishes, lettuce, 
sweet-corn, and other vegetables desired for continuous fresh 
successive crops. These plantings may be made every few 
weeks. Some of the early plantings will be harvested soon 
enough to give room for planting later vegetables, thus allow- 
ing, two, three, or more crops on the same ground during the 
season. 

Beans, melons, cucumbers, squashes, eggplants, peppers, 
corn, and tomatoes are tender and generally should not be 
planted out of doors before May 1-15 or even later. One can 
secure early cabbage, tomatoes, and cauliflower by planting the 
seed in a box indoors, or in a hot-bed, and transplanting to the 
garden when the ground becomes warm. Melon seeds can be 
planted in the house in pasteboard boxes, or strawberry boxes, 
during March. The boxes can be torn away and the little 
vines may be planted in the open very successfully. Thus early 
melons can be secured. 

Be careful not to cover seeds too deep. Plant most garden 
seeds within one-half inch of the surface. Corn, beans, peas, 
and melons may be covered two inches. Potatoes generally do 
best when planted three or four inches deep. 

Before planting mark off the rows straight and even. For 
a small garden, use a piece of twine and small stakes. 

Cover the seeds with only fine, mellow, moist earth. Keep 
dry clods and tra'shy material away from them. 



The Home Garden 81 

Whether the planting be done in a large garden with a 
garden drill, or in a small garden by hand, be sure to press 
the moist, loose soil firmly about the seed. You can do this 
easily by pressing gently on the seeds after they are covered. 

Unless you know how the little seedling plants look when 
they first appear, you may destroy some of them when you 
hoe, or pull them out when first weeding the garden by hand. 
Observe plants, find pictures and descriptions and ask other 
people until you learn just how each little plant looks. Great 
care must be exercised the first time you hoe or weed your 
garden to prevent covering the plants, pulling them up or cut- 
ting them off with the hoe. Avoid crippling any of them. 
Give every plant a fair chance to grow. If the plants are too 
thick in some places pull out or cut off the weakest looking of 
them without disturbing the others more than necessary. 

Cultivating or Hoeing 

Keep the garden free from weeds at all times. It pays. 
Keep the top soil mellow, so as to prevent crusting. It is best 
to cultivate about every week during the growing season. Con- 
tinue cultivating through June and July or as late as plants 
continue growing. Moisture will be kept in the ground for the 
use of the plants and plants will grow rapidly all the time, the 
yield will be large, and everything will be crisp and tender. 

It is best not to cultivate when the ground is wet. When 
there are no weeds or when the weeds are small, a garden 
rake is an excellent tool with which to cultivate. But if the 
ground gets hard on top, or weedy, it may be necessary to use 
a hoe. 

Stick to the Task. 

Make the best use of everything connected with your work 
and no matter how many failures and discouragements come, 
show the true American spirit by sticking to it until you ac- 
complish something definite. Keep cheerful, work patiently 
and carefully, profit by your mistakes and misfortunes, and 
keep at it until you succeed. This is the spirit that will help 
American boys and girls to take an active part in the great 
army of Service. 



82 Our Country's Call to Service 

SOME GARDEN DON'TS 

Don't sprinkle your garden. Water it once a week if neces- 
sary. 

Don't let the weeds get a start. 

Don 't permit the surface soil to become compact or lumpy. 

Don't hoe the soil when it is too moist. 

Don't let the ''bugs" get your plants. This means you must 
watch plants closely. 

Don't waste your time planting lettuce, peas, turnips, spin- 
ach, and other * ' cool ' ' crops during hot weather. 

Don't try to cultivate too much land, especially if it is sod. 
Intensive work on a small area usually gives better returns 
than the same amount put on a large area. 

Don't procrastinate. *'A stitch in time saves nine" in gar- 
dening. 

Don 't slight the hoeing. Hoeing is one of the chief elements 
of success in garden. 

Don't experiment. Use only standard vegetables, proved 
varieties and established methods. This is no time for experi- 
ments. 

Don't quit. You, your family, and your country will be the 
losers if you do. 



Questions and Suggestions 

1. Mention some reasons why you should obey the summons of Presi- 
dent Wilson given on page 74. 

2. If most of the 22,000,000 American school children should raise home 
gardens, how many dollars' worth of food might be raised? 

3. What are some of the things you would need to consider carefully 
before you plant your garden? 

4. Look over the list of Garden Bulletins on page 125 and send for the 
ones you think will help you most. 



PART THREE 
SAVING FUEL 



83 



84 



Our Country's Call to Service 



PART THREE 



SAVING FUEL 




I am your friend, the American Furnace. Every year I eat 
almost 100 million tons of coal. Treat me well and I will pay 
you by keeping you warm ; treat me carelessly and I will waste 
your coal and your money. 

I am like a horse, for I must be fed properly, if I am to do 
my work well. 

I am also like a child, for I must be clothed properly. 
Cover my sides and pipes with a close-fitting suit of asbestos. 



Save a shovel of coal a day. 
Two shovels will he still better. 



Saving Fuel 85 

A WARNING FROM THE FUEL. ADMINISTRATOR 
Dr. Garfield warns us: 

'*It is the duty of every American to save coal this winter. 
If every family will save a ton of coal; if every industrial 
plant will save 10% of the coal it now wastes, the coal prob- 
lem will be largely solved. If every family will reduce the 
temperature of its house at least five degrees it will mean that 
millions of tons of coal will be saved and the health of the 
Nation greatly improved." 

We use almost 100 million tons of coal each year for heating 
our houses. It is estimated that 10 per cent of this coal could 
be saved by proper care of furnaces and by economy in the 
use of gas and electricity. Such a saving would mean: 

1. Warmer homes for your neighbor who now 
cannot get enough coal; 

2. Less burden on the railroads that carry coal, 
thus setting free cars to transport soldiers and muni- 
tions ; 

3. One hundred millions of dollars saved for help- 
ing win the war; 

4. Thousands of miners could be spared to work 
in war employment. 

Will you help save a ton of coal a year in your house?. 
These pages tell how to get the greatest amount of heat from 
the smallest amount of coal. By following these rules you can 
prove your loyalty. 



Hard coal costs $200 a 
to waste it in this country. 

Is a ton of coal ivasted 


ton 

in 


in 
you 


Italy. We can't afford 
r house each year? 



86 * Our Country's Call to Service 

HOW TO SAVE COAL IN YOUR FURNACE 

The following rules will help save coal for your country 
and dollars for you. 

RULES rOR USING SOFT COAL 

1. Thoroughly clean flues and passages of boiler or fur- 
nace at least once a day. The heat from the coal fire should 
come directly to the sides of the heater and pipes. If they 
are allowed to become covered with a layer of soot, the heat 
will not reach the metal, but will go up the chimney and be 
lost. Soot is an almost perfect heat "insulator," that is, it does 
not allow heat to pass through it. To remove soot, brush out 
the inside surface of boiler thoroughly, wherever a collection 
has begun to form. One-eighth inch of soot on boiler surfaces 
reduces transfer of heat 25 per cent. 

2. Hot water plants should have water renewed in fall 
before starting heating season. 

3. Clean soot from base of chimney and smokepipe once 
a year. If they are clogged with soot, much heat is wasted. 

Method of Tiring 

1. Fire (put on coal) often and lightly, keeping grates 
fully covered. 

2. Do not spoil the fire by stirring it around or mixing 
it up. 

3. Use poker under fire bed on top of grates, lifting only 
enough to break or crack open the mass. Keep fire free from 
clinkers. 

4. Don't smother the fire by packing a thick coat of fresh 
coal over all the burning service. A fire needs fresh air as 
much as you do. 

5. Use the smaller prepared sizes of coal if possible. If 
you cannot get the small coal, break the large coal into small 
lumps. Wet all soft coal thoroughly before firing. This makes 
a hotter fire and keeps it from burning out too quickly. 

6. The best way to fire round boilers or furnaces is to get 
the house warm by firing lightly and often. When the house 
is comfortably warm (not above 68°) fill the fire pot full of 
wet coal. Next take a piece of pipe or broomstick and poke a 
hole down through the fuel bed to the grate. Carefully with- 
draw and leave hole in fuel bed. Check off the draft so that 
it will not burn too rapidly. This hole soon will carry a large 



Saving Fuel 87 

blue flame, which is gas driven off from the fresh coal. If 
this method is followed, the gas will not be lost np the chimney. 

Ashes 

Don't shake grate violently. It wastes coal. 

2. Never allow ashes to collect below the grate. Ashes 
reflect the heat, burning and warping the grate. Moreover, 
if ashes are banked up under the grate they prevent circula- 
tion of the air necessary for a good fire. 

3. Keep ash pit clean. Remove ashes from last shaking 
before shaking again. 

Draft 

1. Be sure your chimney is large enough, high enough, and 
absolutely tight. If in doubt, consult an expert. This may 
cost a few dollars, but it may save a ton of coal or more each 
year. The saving of money will benefit you ; the saving of coal 
will benefit our country. 

2. Do not allow any other pipes to be connected to the 
heating chimney except those of the heating boiler or furnace. 
The draft may be spoiled by such connections. 

3. Regulation of draft is very important in saving coal 
and should be attended to at once by an experienced man. If 
you cannot regulate your draft, be sure to call for assistance. 

4. The draft to ash pit should not be open any more than 
necessary to keep the desired temperature. 

5. Do not open ash pit door to increase draft. Use the 
draft damper under grate provided for this purpose. 

6. Check draft must not be open unless draft damper 
under grate is closed. 

RULES FOR USING HARD COAL 

1. Thoroughly clean flues and passages of boiler or fur- 
naces at least once every week. 

2. Clean base of chimney in same manner as explained for 
soft coal. 

Method of Firing 

1. In using anthracite coal a bright fire should always be 
kept if you wish heat. In building up a fire put on a small 
quantity often, keeping a good draft until the fire pot is full 
to the center of the fire door. Draft then can be checked to 
hold the heat desired. 



88 Our Country ^s Call to Service 

2. A hard coal fire should never be disturbed by stirring 
or breaking up with a poker. 

3. Remove clinkers, if any, through grate or clinker door. 

4. Use size of coal recommended by maker of boiler or fur- 
nace. Don't wet hard coal. 

Ashes 
Rules same as for soft coal. 

Draft 
Rules same as for soft coal. 

GENERAL SUGGESTIONS 

1. Cover boiler and pipes with asbestos or other insula- 
tion so that the heat will reach your rooms instead of being 
wasted in your cellar. Also weather strip your windows and 
doors, or stuff cracks with cotton. Allowing warm air to escape 
through these cracks is like throwing coal out of the window. 

2. Keep your room at 68 degrees (best heat for health). 
If you are moving about in the room, even a lower temperature 
will be sufficient. 

3. Heat only the rooms you use all the time. It isn't neces- 
sary to have every room in the house heated. Most people 
would be healthier if they slept in cold bedrooms. Close off all 
spare rooms. 

4. Close bedroom doors when windows are open and shut 
off radiator or shut register. 

5. When any room is kept at a lower temperature than 
other rooms keep door closed. 

6. In very cold weather, if windows are open, protect hot 
water radiator by throwing a blanket or rug over it. Radiator 
may then be shut off without fear of freezing. 

7. Use hot water sparingly, as every gallon of hot water 
wasted means loss of coal. 

8. To supplement your furnace in severe weather, or to 
take the place of the furnace in milder weather, burn wood' in 
an open grate if your house contains one. The wood may not 
be cheaper, but it does not usually need to be transported from 
great distances. Remember, that every freight car that is 
hauling things for your use would be doing a better war service 
if it were hauling things for our soldiers^ use. 

9. During spring and summer months lay in your supply of 
coal for the winter. 



Saving Fuel 89 

SOME DON'T 8 

Don't waste gas or electricity. It takes coal to make them. 

Don't forget that a fireless cooker saves fuel. 

Don't take unnecessary train rides. Fewer passengers 
mean fewer cars. Fewer cars mean less coal. 

Don't grumble if your house is a few degrees cooler than 
you would like it to be. Put on a sweater, and remember that 
the boys in khaki can't keep the trenches at a temperature 
of 70 degrees. 



PART FOUR 

THRIFT 




WS.S 

TOVR SAVINGS STAMPS 

ISSUED BY THE 

UNITED STATES 
GOVERNAIENT 



91 



PART FOUR 



THRIFT 




SAVE cn3 SERVE 

BUY 
WAH SAVINGS STAMPS 

onsal^aiaO POSTOFflCES. 
BANKS, c/ft 



Have you enlisted in the 



ARMY OF SAVERS? 



Buy 



War 

Savings 
Stamps 



Save Money and You Save Lives 



"Your first duty in this critical time 
is to economize ; to avoid waste ; to place 
all your available resources at the disposal 
of the Government." 

W. G. McAdoo 



No Amount is Too Small 
To Lend to Your Government 



Waste Not— Want Not 



93 




A MESSAGE FROM MR. McADOO 

(Secretary of the Treasury) 

Nations have their childhood and their days 
of hard lessons just as children do. One hun- 
dred and forty years ago when the first Amer- 
ican Army marched to battle, our Nation was 
younger among Nations than you are among 
your fathers, your mothers, and their friends. 
Our Army had drummer boys in those days, 
real boys of 10 and 12, who marched as bravely 
and as proudly into cannon fire as their great 
chief. General Washington, himself. Our Na- 
tion had little girls, who laughed and cheered 
aiid loaded muskets for their fathers, who fired 
through loop holes in their cabin homes, when 
the painted Indians charged to the very doors. 
Where many school houses stand today Amer- 
ican boys and girls may have helped to fight 
and to defeat the enemy, when our Nation, too, 
was young. 

We are in the greatest war of the world's w. g. mcadoo 

history and we must win this war. We can 

and we shall win, if the boys and girls of America say so, and mean it, 
and feel it, and live it, as the boys and girls of '76 lived and felt and 
helped. 

The Nation needs that sort of boys and girls today. Not to beat our 
drums, nor to load our muskets, but to start a great work which must be 
done. It is the part of boys and girls today to give an example of self- 
denial and sacrifice, to teach fathers and mothers, to teach the grown peo- 
ple of the Nation, that we still have in every young heart the spirit of '76, 
when boys led our soldiers into battle and girls fought beside their fathers 
at the cabin walls. The lesson is ^'Thrift" — saving to the point of sacri- 
fice, — self-denial of everything unnecessary. If every boy and girl says at 
home tonight, ''I will fight in this war," ''I will save every penny and 
loan it to my government to help save the lives of the big brothers of 
America," ''I will try to teach every American I see to do the same" — 
then 20,000,000 homes, the homes of all America, will be filled with the 
spirit of '76, the spirit of the drummer boys, of the brave girls of those 
days. America will win again, as it has always won, through the splendid 
strength, courage, and sacrifice in the hearts of youth, that today will teach 
the Nation the lesson of saving and serving which it must and will learn, 
through the message which its school children will carry home. 

Through saving your pennies, nickels, dimes, quarters, and buying thrift 
stamps and then war-savings certificates, you will help your country and 
its gallant armies to win the war. 



1 know you will help. 




94 Our Country's Call to Service 

A MESSAGE FEOM MR. VANDERLIP 

(National Chairman, War Savings Committee) 

President Wilson has said, "If this country- 
can learn something about saving it will be 
worth the cost of the war; I mean the literal 
cost of it in money and resources." 

The War-Savings Plan of the United States 
Government is the logical outgrowth of the 
President's statement. Under the direction of 
the Secretary of the Treasury, William G. Mc- 
Adoo, this plan, now in operation, offers to 
every individual in the country the opportunity 
to lend a hand in the winning of this war; it 
enables every soul in the Nation to make his 
patriotism count. I do not question for a min- 
ute that there is an enormous and splendidly 
eager army of small savers ready to come for- 
ward and do their part in this great cause. 

Our per capita savings in the United States 
are now estimated at $50. In Denmark and 
Norway the per capita savings are $70, in 
FRANK VANDERLIP Switzerland $86, in Australia $91, and in New 

Zealand $98. 

It is apparent, therefore, that we in this country have only started to 
save. We are getting the highest wages in the world and have had the 
best opportunity in the world to save, but, unfortunately, we have been 
extravagant and inclined toward improvident living. It is not a difficult 
matter to save if we realize that by saving we are helping those who are 
undergoing indescribable hardship and discomfort and risking their lives 
every day for us and for our country's sake. 

There is in this country only a certain supply of coal, wood, iron, food, 
clothes, etc. Our normal demand consumes nearly all of that supply. 
Now comes the war with a gigantic extra demand. The supply cannot 
meet both our regular demand and the war demand in full. Therefore, one 
must be cut down. The war demand cannot be cut down because we, the 
people, must furnish in lavish abundance those things necessary to winning 
the war. 

The person, therefore, who buys an unnecessary thing, however small 
the cost, and no matter how well able he is to pay for it, is competing with 
the Government for the labor used in producing it and this labor is taken 
away from the great task of producing necessary goods. 

No one should dare to say that he has the right to spend his money as he 
chooses when the liberties of the world are threatened. No one should dare 
when only the very highest efficiency in money, man-power, and material? 
can in this great emergency make the world safe against Prussian autocracy. 



Waste Not— Want Not 95 

THRIFT— WHY WE MUST PRACTICE THRIFT 

If you are really a fjatriotic boy or girl, man or woman; 
if you really want to /^^^ win the wary it will not be neces- 
sary to urge you to do your part. You will ask yourself every 
day, ''What have I done today to help my country?" "Have 
I done all that it is possible for me to do?" "What should I 
do tomorrow?" You must not merely ask yourself these ques- 
tions; you must be proud of what you have done and what 
you expect to do. 

The Great Cost of the War 

Do you know that Congress has appropriated 19 billion 
dollars since April, 1917, for the purpose of paying the ex- 
penses of this war during the first year ? Do you know what a 
billion dollars is? It is such a large amount that no one can 
imagine how much it is. Possibly you can understand it a little 
better if you know that all of the money spent by our Government 
from its beginning down through all of its wars, through all of 
its days of peace ; all that it has spent for the Panama Canal, 
for the construction of public buildings ; every expenditure it 
has made from the first days down to the beginning of this war, 
during nearly 130 years, amounts to a little more than 26 billion 
dollars. Yet ive are going to spend 19 billion dollars in one year 
to carry on the war. 

Think for a moment of the many reasons why our Govern- 
ment must have all of these billions of dollars if we are to win 
the war. Our soldiers and sailors need good food and clothing, 
guns and ammunition, boats to carry them and their supplies 
across the ocean, and doctors, nurses, and medicines to bring 
them back to health should they be wounded. To give them 
all these things the United States must have a large amount 
of money, for money is needed to pay the wages of millions of 
people working in America's great factories where the cloth- 
ing, guns, ammunition, and other supplies are made for the 
army, and in our ship yards, where the great battleships, 
cruisers, and destroyers are being built for the Navy. There, 
too, the large ocean-going vessels that are needed to carry our 
troops and their supplies to the fighting line are being con- 
structed. 



96 Our Country's Call to Service 

We now (March, 1918) have about 2,000,000 men under 
arms. The private soldier is paid $30 a month. The officers re- 
ceive more. You will see from this that at $30 a month it is cost- 
ing the Government 60 million dollars a month or 720 million 
dollars a year to pay these men. Of course, when the extra 
amount is added to pay the officers the yearly cost is over a 
billion dollars. Keep in mind that this is for salaries only. 
During the next few months there will be hundreds of thou- 
sands of other men placed under arms and their salaries will 
increase this part of the Government's expenses. In connection 
with salaries you must also remember that the Government is 
employing tens of thousands of people in offices at Washington 
and in towns and cities all over the country. Are there any 
people in your town or city who are employed by the Govern- 
ment to do work made necessary by the war? How many are 
there? How much do you think their services cost the Gov- 
ernment each year? 

Perhaps it will help you to get a clearer idea of the great 
expense of a war if you estimate the answers to the following 
questions. After you have done this, list and estimate other 
war costs. 

1. How many cantonments and training stations have been 
built in the United States since April, 1917? Estimate the 
cost of all of them. 

2. Locate these cantonments and training stations on a 
map and indicate the states from which the men were drawn 
for each. Who pays the railroad fare of a soldier when he is 
asked to report for service? 

3. About how much do you think it would cost the Gov- 
ernment to transport 40,000 soldiers from California to New 
York? 

4. How much does a large battleship cost? A destroyer? 
A merchant vessel? 

5. What is the cost of a large cannon? A shell for such a 
cannon? A torpedo? An airplane? 

6. It costs about 40 cents a day to feed a soldier or sailor 
while he is in the United States. (It costs much more when he 
is in Europe.) How much does it cost the Government each 
day to feed 2,000,000 men? How much does it cost in a year? 



Waste Not— Want Not 97 

You will no doubt be interested in the following table which 
shows in a more detailed way how the vast sums are being 
spent. It shows the cost of equipping an infantryman for 
service in France. Bear in mind that it is only the cost of one 
complete equipment and does not represent the cost of keeping 
the soldier equipped. Much of his equipment wears out rap- 
idly. 

One bed sack $ 0.89 

Three woolen blankets 18.75 

One waist belt .25 

Two pairs wool breeches 8.90 

Two wool service coats 15.20 

One hat cord .08 

Three pairs summer drawers 1.50 

One pair wool gloves .61 

Three pairs winter drawers 3.88 

One service hat 1.70 

Two pairs extra shoe laces .05 

Two pairs canvas leggings 1.05 

Two flannel shirts 7.28 

Two pairs shoes 10.20 

Two pairs wool stockings 1.50 

Four identification tags .02 

Four summer undershirts 1.50 

Four winter undershirts 4.88 

One overcoat 14.92 

Five shelter-tent pins .20 

One shelter-tent pole 26 

One poncho 3.55 

One shelter tent 2.95 

Eating utensils 7.73 

Fighting equipment 47.36 

Total $155.21 

Save Goods and Services 

It must be clear to you by this time that the Government 
needs large sums of money, almost as much as it has spent in 
its entire history. But it must be equally clear that this money 
will be spent for goods and services. The war is taking millions 
of men from occupations on the farms and in the shops here 
at home where they produced goods that furnished many of 
our necessities, comforts, and luxuries, and is sending them to 
the battle fronts where they can not produce goods, but must 
depend on those of us who remain at home to make up 
this great shortage in service. Millions of people are now at 
work, some of our factories are running day and night 



98 Our Country's Call to Service 

producing and manufacturing the food, wool, cotton, linen, 
clothing, leather, chemicals to make explosives, and the steel to 
make the arms and shells. With these millions of men gone, 
with still more millions of people at home changing their occu- 
pations in an effort to supply the new demands, do you think 
we can hope to win the war if we continue to spend our money 
for the same things and as many of them as before the war? 
Do you not see that if we do, we are paying for services ren- 
dered us and not the Government? You surely know that a 
man can't work on a pair of shoes for you and make a pair for 
a soldier at the same time. But if you are careless with your 
shoes, throw them away sooner than is necessary, and buy a 
new pair, you are maMng some man work for you when he 
might be working for the Government. You are buying that 
man's services. Just to the^ extent that you do this you are 
competing with your Government. Suppose that 5,000 men 
have been kept busy all of the time in the past manufacturing 
shoes for the people in a certain large section of our country. 
Now suppose that instead of wearing out a pair of shoes every 
six months, each of these persons Avould, by being more careful, 
by having necessary repairs made at the proper time, and by 
being willing to wear his shoes even after they do look a little 
shabby, would wear his shoes two months longer. Do you see 
what would happen? The 5,000 shoe manufacturers could 
work these two months on shoes for the soldiers and sailors. 
The same thing is true of all kinds of clothing. 

Today, when our boys at the front are fighting and are de- 
pending on us to furnish the services and goods necessary for 
their best protection and equipment ; when the World War is as 
much a test of labor and materials as it is of fighting men, who 
is the loyal American, the person who spends his money buy- 
ing the services necessary to keep himself or herself always 
dressed in the latest style, in band-box appearance, in such a 
way as to meet the approval of the "smart set," or the one 
who saves services and goods which the Government may use 
by buying fewer dresses and suits, by taking good care of those 
he does buy, by wearing them as long as possible, even if they 
are somewhat out of date and shabby? In which group do- you 
belong? Are you thrifty, or are you extravagant? Are you a 
patriot or a slacker? 

What do you think of the man who refuses to bear arms 
for his country? You call him a slacker because he will not 



Waste Not— Want Not 99 

give his services to his country. What do you think of people 
who are idle much of the time, who loaf, who spend weeks and 
months at places of amusement and summer resorts when it is 
not necessary to their health and efficiency? Oh! To be sure, 
they may say that they can afford it. But that is no reason 
why they should refuse to give their services to their country. 
They are slackers because they are not producing as much as 
they might ; they are not helping to furnish the things needed 
by the boys in the trenches : they are not serving their country. 

There are millions of people on our farms and in our shops 
and factories who can spend much of their time (services) 
producing and manufacturing goods needed for carrying on 
the war if : 

1. We do not waste anything. 

2. We make clothing and household furnishings last 
longer. 

3. We do not buy the services of others for ourselves before 
these services are absolutely necessary to our health and effi- 
ciency. 



Where the Government Must Get Its Billions 

The Government, like any great business concern, has its 
usual income and expense. As stated above, its expenses dur- 
ing the last 130 years have amounted to 26 billion dollars, but 
it is now forced into a situation where it must spend 19 billions 
in one year. It cannot meet one-tenth of this with its usual 
income and must therefore borrow what it needs. Isn't that 
what any business man does? 

Now, from whom does the Government wish to borrow 
money? From you, your brother, sister, father, mother, and 
friends. It does not ask you to give the money; the Govern- 
ment asks you to lend it. Perhaps you have a brother, father, 
or some dear one at the front. He may give his life to his 
country. Will you not lend your money f 



100 Our Country's Call to Service 

SEVEN REASONS FOR SAVING 

1. Save for your country's sake, because it is now spend- 
ing millions a day, and must find most of the money out of 
savings. 

2. Save for your own sake, because work and wages are 
plentiful and, while prices are high now, a dollar will buy 
more after the war. 

3. Save because, when you spend, you make other people 
work for you, and the work of everyone is needed now to win 
the war. Therefore, spend wisely. 

4. Save because, by saving, you make things cheaper for 
everyone, especially for those who are poorer than you. 

5. Save because, by going without, you relieve the strain 
on ships, docks, and railways, and make transport cheaper and 
quicker. 

6. Save because, by saving, you set an example that makes 
it easier for the next man to save. A saving nation is an earn- 
ing nation. 

7. Save because every time you save you help twice, first 
when you don't spend, and again when you lend to the Nation. 

THREE KINDS OF DOLLARS 

A Slacker Dollar. There are three things you can do 
with a dollar. You can hide it, you can spend it, or you can 
invest it. Now a dollar that is hidden away is an idle dollar 
and today, when the Government needs the money, it is a drag 
on the community, just as an idle man is a drag on the com- 
munity. An idle dollar is a slacker. 

A Traitor Dollar. But there is something worse than 
a slacker. A slacker is not doing anything actively to defeat 
the Nation's purposes, but when you spend money for things 
that you do not need, when you employ labor or use up mate- 
rial which you could well get along without and that the Gov- 
ernment needs, your dollar is an ally of the enemy. It is a 
traitor dollar. 



Waste Not— Want Not 101 

A Patriot Dollar. When you lend your money to the 
Government, you put it to work to help win the war, for that 
dollar will help to buy the clothes, the guns, and the munitions 
that our armies must have. It may be used to buy the motor- 
trucks, engines, and ships that are needed to carry supplies to 
the men, and when we buy things that we can get along with- 
out, then we are postponing the day of victory. 

No More Pleasure as Usual 

We must all plan to save as much as we can every day and 
every week. You cannot buy a thrift stamp and think that yoxi 
have done your duty. If you have been spending ten cents a week 
for things that you do not need, you should save that much every 
week. If you have spent a dollar a week for things that do not 
help to keep you well and strong, or to increase your ability to 
work and study, you should save a dollar a week. You are inter- 
fering with the Government when you go on with pleasure as 
usual. 

People Who Work for the Government Cannot Work for You 

Suppose you wanted a man to drive you to the railroad sta- 
tion and you saw a man driving an ambulance. Would you stop 
him and say? "I can give you a better job. I will pay you more 
for driving me to the station than the Government pays you 
for driving the ambulance. You may be on an errand of mercy, 
but get off, I want you to haul me." You wouldn't do that. 

Suppose you saw a man at work in a factory, making a gun 
or a shell, and you knew that that gun or shell was necessary 
for our soldiers. Would you say, ''Stop your machinery and 
quit working on guns and shells. I want you to make a bicycle 
for me. If you will work for me I will pay you more than the 
Government." You surely would not do that. 

Suppose you saw a woman at working loading shells or 
making a gas mask. Would you say? ''I want a new dress 
made. I want a new hat. Stop that work and work for me." 
Knowing that the gas mask might save the life of a soldier 
and that the shells are necessary if we are to win the war, you 
certainly would not ask the woman to stop her war work 
and go to work for you. But we are all doing just that thing. 
We don't think. We don't understand that men and women 
who are working for us cannot work for the Government, 



102 Our Country's Call to Service 

THRIFT IN CARE OF CLOTHING 

With the prices of clothing advancing all the time and 
with a shortage of clothing material facing us, we must not 
only use economy in buying, but must also make the present 
supply last as long as possible. 

Selection 

When buying garments consider the wearing qualities of 
the material, the fastness of the dye, etc., rather than the pre- 
vailing style in color and weave. 

Garments made at home will wear longer than those ready- 
made, if the materials are carefully chosen, the workmanship 
good, and the garment well fitted. 

Preparation of New Material 

Linens, ginghams, and voiles, or materials which spot or 
lose their shape when they are wet, should be sponged or 
shrunk before making up. A good method of sponging wool 
is to lay the material folded through the center on a wet sheet 
or long piece of muslin. Roll and leave over night. Press on 
the wrong side with a dry cloth laid over the material. A good 
way to shrink cottons or linen is to leave the material folded, 
place in the bath tub, cover with water and leave over night. 
In the morning hang on the line, hanging the selvage edges 
together. When partly dry, press. 

Many garments are discarded before they are much worn 
because they are badly faded. Set colors in cottons and linens 
before making. Set colors in ready-made garments the first 
time they are laundered. 

Protection and Care of Clothing 

Hang clothes on hangers and away from the dust when 
not in use. This saves time in caring for the garments, and pre- 
vents the wearing that results from constant brushing, pressing, 
and cleaning. A good substitute for a skirt hanger may 
be made by placing loops or safety pins at the sides of the 
skirt and hanging them on nails placed in the closet at 
the right distance to keep the bands of the skirt extended. A 
substitute for a coat hanger may be made from a roll of paper 
or a piece of wood covered with muslin with a tape hanger at 



Waste Not— Want Not 103 

the center. Have cotton covers made for waists, dresses, and 
coats that are worn only occasionally. 

Sponging, cleaning, and pressing will make wearable many 
a garment which looks shabby. 

Have play clothes for the children and save their good 
ones. 

Wear aprons when at work. There are many attractive 
ones for all kinds of uses. 

Fresh collars and cuffs quite change the appearance of a 
dress. They should be removable, since they need laundering 
more often than the dress. 

Shoes 

Have shoes carefully fitted. 

Shoes wear longer when two pairs are alternated. 

Rubber heels are a help if one wears off heels badly. 

Have heels built up as soon as they wear off, otherwise the 
whole shoe soon runs over and loses its shape. 

Vaseline rubbed on shoes occasionally and allowed to thor- 
oughly dry before using keeps the leather soft and gives it 
greater resistance to water. 

Keep shoes clean and dry. 

Rubbers are a good investment. Soft paper pressed into 
the toes and heels of rubbers will prolong their life. 

Stockings 
Stockings that fit well give longer service. 

The life of stockings may be lengthened if the top is 
stretched and two rows of machine stitching (long stitch) run 
around the stocking just below the hem. This checks the 
runners when they start. 

It is often economy to buy new feet for stockings, espe- 
cially for children. 

A piece of velvet pasted into shoes at the heel will increase 
the wearing qualities of the stockings. 

If the linings of heels of shoes get worn so that they wear 
your stockings, paste cotton wadding or adhesive tape over 
the hole, giving a smooth surface. 

Carefully repair stockings as soon as the need arises. 



104 Our Country ^s Call to Service 

Fiber-silk stockings must be carefully laundered. Use 
lukewarm water, as hot water weakens fiber. Use good soap. 

Wash stockings frequently, especially silk ones, which will 
last much longer if rinsed out after each day's wear. Perspira- 
tion quickly rots silk. 

Laundering 

Do not allow garments to become too badly soiled before 
washing. 

Launder carefully all colored wash materials. Do not use 
too hot water. Use good white soap. Dry in the shade. Colors 
which have faded may be strengthened. 

Blues — use strong bluing. 

Pinks — use a little red ink or color from red crepe paper In rinse 
water. 

Yellows and tans — use strong coffee in rinse water. 

White crepe de chines which have become yellow after laundering, 
tint by dyes obtained at drug store, or dye from colored crepe paper. 

Do not send fragile waists, collars, etc., to the laundry. 
They should be carefully washed by themselves. 

KEEP A SERVICE RECORD 

Make a little book in which you show under the proper 
dates what you are doing for your country. Decorate the book 
with some appropriate design and name it *'My Service Rec- 
ord." If this book is properly made and your services are 
accurately recorded, you will be proud of it in the years to 
come. Of course, there are some services like speaking words 
of loyalty for your country, being careful not to waste things, 
etc., that you probably cannot show in your record, but there 
are many others that you can. You can make a record of 
deeds actually done, or gifts and sacrifices made. 

SUGGESTION FORM 



1918 Page 1 

March 25 

Earned 25c running errands and bought a Thrift Stamp. 
Sent a magazine to a soldier. 

March 26 
Completed knitting 1 square for a hospital comfort. 
Helped mother entertain two soldiers. 

March 27 

Put fertilizer on my garden. 
Earned 50c raking a lawn. 
Bought a Thrift Stamp. 
Gave 10c to Belgian Relief Fund. 



Jan. 


.$4.12 


Apr. 


Feb. 


. 4.13 


May 


Mar. 


. 4.14 


June 



Waste Not— Want Not 105 

The War-Savings Plan 

STUDY THESE QUESTIONS AND ANSWEES 

Question; What is the War-Savings Plan? 

Answer: It is a plan by which you can lend small savings to your Gov- 
ernment at 4% interest, compounded quarterly. 

Question: How may this be done? 

Answer: By purchasing War-Savings Stamps and Thrift Stamps. 

Question: What is a War-Savings Stamp? 

Answer: It is a stamp for which the Government will pay you $5 on 
January 1, 1923. 

Question: What does a War-Savings Stamp cost each month of 1918? 

Answer: Jan. .$4.12 Apr. .$4.15 July .$4.18 Oct. . .$4.21 

4.16 Aug. . 4.19 Nov. . 4.22 

4.17 Sept. . 4.20 Dec. . 4.23 

Question: Why is the price higher each month? 

Answer: Because the stamps are earning interest. 

Question: What is a Thrift Stamp? 

Answer: It is a stamp costing 25 cents, to be applied in payment for a 
War-Savings Stamp. It does not earn interest. The purpose 
of its issue is to enable people to accumulate in small sums 
the amount necessary to pay for a War-Savings Stamp. 

Question: Where can I buy them? 

Answer: At post-offices, banks, and authorized agencies. 

Question: Why should I buy them? 

Answer: Every dollar loaned to the Government helps to save the lives 
of our men at the front and to win the war. 

War-Savings Stamps and Certificates 

Question: I want to begin to save on the War-Savings Plan. What is 
the first thing to do? 

Answer: Take $4.12 to the post-office or a bank or any other agent, buy 
a War-Savings Stamp, and ask for a War-Savings Certificate. 

Question: What is a War-Savings Certificate? 

Answer: It is a pocket-sized folder containing twenty spaces upon 
which to place War-Savings Stamps. 

Question: Can I get a War-Savings Certificate without buying a stamp? 

Answer: No. 

Question: Does the War-Savings Certificate cost anything? 

Answer: No. The agent from whom you purchase the stamps will write 
your name and address on the certificate and will furnish you' 
an envelope in which to keep it. 



106 Our Country's Call to Service 

Question: What do I do after that? 

Answer: Afl&x the War-Savings Stamp on your certificate in space No. 
1 and take good care of it. 

Question: What do I do next? - 

Answer: You have now become a war saver. Continue to buy War- 
Savings Stamps every week or month and put them on your 
certificate until you have filled all of the 20 spaces. When 
this is done you can buy another War-Savings Stamp, and you 
will receive free of cost another certificate to which you can 
attach new stamps as you buy them. 

Question: When T have filled the 20 spaces on my certificate what do I 
do with it? 

Answer: Keep the certificate until January 1, 1923, and the Government 
will pay you $100 for it. 

Question: How many War-Savings Certificates can I fill? 

Answer: Ten. The law allows each person to own $1,000 worth of Wa/- 
Savings Certificates. 

Question: What is the largest quantity that I can purchase at one time? 

Answer: $100 worth, or twenty stamps. 

Thrift Stamps and Thrift Cards 

Question: If I do not have enough money saved up to buy a War-Savings 
Stamp and can only save in small amounts what should I do? 

Answer: Buy a 25-cent Thrift Stamp at a post-office, bank, or other 
authorized agency and ask for a Thrift Card, to which you can 
attach your Thrift Stamp. 

Question: Is there any charge for a Thrift Card? 

Answer: No. It is given you to hold Thrift Stamps and contains a place 
for your name and address. 

Question: How many Thrift Stamps will this card hold? 

Answer: Sixteen stamps, which represent a value of $4. 

Exchanging Thrift Cards for War-Savings Stamps 

Question: When I have filled the Thrift Card, what do I do? 

Answer: Take it to a post-office, bank, or other authorized agency, sur- 
render the card and pay in cash the few cents difference be- 
tween the $4 worth of Thrift Stamps and the price of a War- 
Savings Stamp for the month in which the exchange is made. 

Question: What do I do next? 

Answer: You take the War-Savings Stamp given you in exchange for 
your Thrift Card, ask for a War-Savings Certificate, if you 
haven't one already, and attach the stamp to the certificate. 

Question: Should I continue to buy Thrift Stamps? 

Answer: Yes. Ask for a new Thrift Card and begin again. 



Waste Not— Want Not 



107 



Question: Do Thrift Stamps bear interest? 

Answer: No. 

Question: Then why are they issued? 

Answer: To make it convenient for you to save in small amounts so 
that you can purchase a War-Savings Stamp which does bear 
interest. 

Question: May I exchange Thrift Stamps for War-Savings Stamps at 

any time? 
Answer: No, only on or before December 31, 1918. 

Loss 

Question: If I lose some detached Thrift Stamps, can I get my money 

back? 
Answer: No. These stamps are of value to the bearer, just as postage 

stamps are. 

Question: If I lose my Thrift Card, what can I do? 

Answer: Be sure to put your name and address on the Thrift Card, so 
that if the finder drops it in any post-office box without postage 
it may be returned to you. 

Question: Is an unattached War-Savings Stamp of value to anyone who 
finds it? 

Answer: Yes. For this reason you should attach it to your War-Sav- 
ings Certificate at the time of purchase. You should write 
across the face of the stamp your name and the number of 
your certificate. 

Question: If a registered War-Savings Certificate is lost or destroyed, 
what should I do? 

Answer: If it is not returned to you within a reasonable time, report 
it to your Postmaster where you had the certificate registered. 

Question: How do I get my money back if my registered War-Savings 
Certificate is lost? 

Answer: By applying at the post-office where you registered it. 

Payment at Maturity- 
Question: Where does the United States Government pay the $5 on 

January 1, 1923, for each War-Savings Stamp attached to a 

War-Savings Certificate? 
Answer: At either the Treasury Department in Washington or at any 

money order post-office after ten (10) days' notice. 
Question: Where is payment made if the certificate is registered? 
Answer: At the post-office where the certificate is registered. 

Transfer 

Question: Can I sell or transfer my War-Savings Certificate to anyone? 
Answer: No. The certificate is not transferable and is of value to the 
owner only, except in case of death or disability. 



108 Our Country's Call to Service 

Question:. Should I sell my Thrift Card to anyone? 

Answer: No. Your Thrift Card has your name on it and should be filled 
with sixteen 25-cent Thrift Stamps and exchanged at a post- 
office, bank, or other authorized agency for a War-Savings 
Stamp. 

Payment Before Maturity- 
Question: If it is necessary before January 1, 1923, to have money for 
my War-Savings Certificate, how can I get it? 

Answer: If it is not registered, take it to any money-order post-office 
and it will be redeemed, aften ten days' written demand, as 
prescribed by the rules of the Post-Office Department. If 
registered, take it to the post-office where registered. 

Question: What do I get in cash for each War-Savings Stamp attached 
to my War-Savings Certificate if I surrender it? 

Answer: The amount is indicated on the table, which is printed on the 
back of each War-Savings Certificate. 

Question: Can I surrender my Thrift Card for cash? 

Answer: No. 

Question: If I must have money on my Thrift Card and Thrift Stamps, 

how can I obtain it? 
Answer: By filling the Thrift Card and exchanging it for a War-Savings 

Stamp, which has a redeemable value. 

Question: Is the post-office the only place where I can surrender my 
War-Savings Certificate before its maturity and get my money 
back? 

Answer: Yes. 

Question: How much notice must I give the post-office? 

Answer: Ten days' notice. 

Question: If I should find it necessary to surrender my War-Savings Cer- 
tificate for cash, what rate of interest would I receive on my 
investment ? 

Answer: A little less than 3 per cent. 

Question: If I have registered a War-Savings Certificate in one city and 
I move to another, do I have to go back to the city where 
registered to get my money? 

Answer: No. You may, by applying to the postmaster where your cer- 
tificate was registered, have your registration card transferred 
to any post-office you may designate. 

Question: Can I write my name on a stamp to identify it? 

Answer: Yes. 

General Information 

Question: Is the money received from War-Savings Stamps and Thrift 
Stamps used for the same purpose as the money received from 
Liberty Bonds? 



Waste Not—Want Not 109 



Answer: Yes. 



Question: Should I take money out of a savings bank to buy War-Sav- 
ings Stamps? 

Answer: No. You should save as much as you can every day and buy 
Thrift Stamps and War-Savings Stamps with these savings. 

Question: How did Congress authorize these War-Savings Certificates? 

Answer: By Act approved September 24, 1917. 

Question: How large an amount of War-Savings Certificates can be issued 
under the present law? 

Answer: $2,000,000,000. 



PART FIVE 
THE JUNIOR RED GROSS 



lU 



112 Our Country's Call to Service 



THE JUNIOR RED CROSS 

**I have a little namesake," the Red Cross said, 
**He's not very old yet, but he's forging right ahead 
In his efforts to help me raise the money and supplies 
For which my hard-worked sister in the other country cries. 

He is raising money rapidly and works with all his might, 
To give the soldiers comfort, if he doesn't help them fight; 
And v/hen the war is over and we know the gain and loss, 
Many hearts will be so grateful for the Junior Red Cross. ' ' 
— Bi/ a Junior Red Cross Merriber, Evansville, Indiana. 

The Purpose of the Junior Eed Cross 

What is the Junior Red Cross and why do we have such a 
thing in our schools? 

We all know about the Senior Red Cross, for which so many 
of our mothers and sisters are working; which is sending all 
sorts of bandages to France, to wrap up the wounds of the 
brave men who have been hurt in the terrible war. We know 
that in a time of war, like now, it is sending sweaters and muf- 
flers and hoods and thick socks to keep the soldiers warm ; we 
know tjiat in times of peace it sends help to any city where a 
great storm or a. fire or an earthquake has driven people from 
their homes and killed and maimed them. If we know this, the 
best answer that we can give to the question about the Junior 
Red Cross is that it is the child of the Senior Red Cross. For it 
tries to do the same sort of work, in a smaller way. 

We have it in our schools for several reasons. First, our 
boys and girls are anxious to help in winning the war. 

You know, the English are a people who very much dislike 
any bragging or boasting. For this reason an Englishman, in 
telling what he is doing, generally tries to make it seem that it 
is very little. So he likes to say, ''I am trying to do my bit," 
making everybody think that it is only a little bit, even when 
it may be a very big bit. So our American boys and girls like 
to say, "I am doing my bit along with everybody else in help- 
ing to win the war. ' ' 



The Junior Red Cross 



113 



But if every boy or girl went to work making something 
for the soldiers without being told what was most needed, or 
without asking anybody's advice, all sorts of mistakes would 
be made. They might make sweaters when the thing that was 
most needed was plenty of bandages or splints. 

So there must be a head, or a leader, to tell us what sort of 
work to do, and just how much of each kind. 




^^ifc 





RED CROSS MEN AT WORK ON THE BATTLEFIELD 



ii^i.. 



The Senior Red Cross is asked for more than it can do. 
Some of these things for which it is asked can be made just as 
well as not by the younger folks. And here the Junior Red 
Cross can help. 

Then, too, it offers a great chance for children to learn 
lessons in love of country, in service, in doing without things 
for the sake of other people, in saving, in helping those who 
have suffered cruelly through the war. 



114 



Our Country's Call to Service 



How It Came to be Organized 

Early in September, 1917, the War Council of the United 
States voted to invite the children of the nation to take part 
in the work of the Red Cross. 

By the 1st of January, 1918, there were 2,531 different 
school auxiliaries and 860,740 children who had joined. 




BELGIAN ORPHANS BEING FED AND CARED FOE 



This seems a great many, but really it was only a small pai^ 
of the school children of the United States, for there are nearly 
22,000,000 of them all told. So during February, 1918, a hard 
effort was made to get them all to join. Several cities report 
that every child has joined and others are 'Agoing over the top" 
every day. To become a member a child has to pay twenty-five 
cents, and this sum looks large to many families who are not 
rich. Of course, it would be easy for some children simply to ask 
their fathers or mothers for the money, but in most cities it is 
asked that the children should earn it. 



The Junior Red Cross 



115 



Some one will say, ''Why ask money?" The answer is, 
first, that the five and a half million dollars which would come 
from the twenty-two million American school children is a 
mighty sum and can do a great deal of good ; second, that it is 
a good thing for a child to give up something that he wants 
in order to supply the much greater wants of other children. 

The money is used to buy supplies from which to make use- 
ful things for the soldiers abroad and the needy children of 
Europe. It is used to pay for the food of some child in France 
or Belgium whose parents have been killed by the Germans. In 
this way a school may ''adopt" a French orphan, by agreeing 
to pay a certain sum each year to feed and clothe him. 




FRENCH BOYS BEING TAUGHT CARPENTRY IN SCHOOL ESTABLISHED BY THE 
FRANCO-AMERICAN COMMITTEE, AND SUPPORTED BY THE RED CROSS 



How Members Can Earn Money 

Some schools have helped to raise it by giving entertain- 
ments and charging for the tickets. The boys and girls speak 
pieces, play on the piano, sing, or give tableaux and little plays 
to amuse the audience. 

Some children have earned their money by collecting and 
selling to the junk man tin foil, lead, zinc, wastepaper, old rub- 
ber, etc. This helps save these things, which are badly needed 
in war time, and teaches the children to avoid waste. 



116 Our Country's Call to Service 

Others have gotten people to subscribe to magazines, while 
others have sold seeds for war gardens. 

Still others have given up money that had been given to 
them to spend selfishly for their own pleasure, on candy, gum, or 
' ' movies. ' * 

Others run errands, clean up yards, put in coal, wash dishes, 
sweep walks, shovel snow, etc. 

Some are already planting gardens with the idea of selling 
the vegetables that they raise and giving the money to the 
Junior Red Cross. 

What Members Can Do in the Classroom 

Now how can we work for the Junior Red Cross inside the 
school itself? 

In the first place, we can have patriotic exercises every 
morning in the school rooms. Certain children who know it 
well can tell to those in the lower rooms the story of the Red 
Cross, and similar stories of love of country, giving up for 
others, serving and working to win the war. 

In our drawing lessons we can have cartoons and posters 
made, showing how food can be spared and money saved and 
work done for our country. 

Our music can be largely made up of songs of America and 
its friends. Some children have even written words about the 
Red Cross which can be sung to well-known tunes. 

In the language classes, verses and compositions can be 
written about the war and the many ways that children have 
of helping to win it. 

Plays and dialogues on patriotic themes can be written by 
the children and staged and played before audiences. 

Some boys and girls have made up first-class yells about the 
Junior Red Cross. 

In the arithmetic classes problems can be worked that show 
us how much we can give to France, England, and Italy if 
every child in America saves only one lump of sugar a day; 
how much coal is wasted by burning electric lights when they 
are not needed, etc. 

In the history classes pupils can study how the war began 
and why America had to go into it. Every teacher will know 
these facts and will be glad to make the children understand 
the rights and wrongs of the great World War. 



The Junior Bed Cross 117 

The boys in the manual training shops can make packing 
boxes in which to send to France bandages and clothes. They 
can build flag poles, can plan and build furniture for the homes 
where sick soldiers live after leaving the hospitals, while they 
are waiting till they get strong enough to go back to fighting. 
They can draw plans for posters and banners, advertising the 
work of the Red Cross. They can make useful things to be 
sold to raise money for Red Cross materials. 

The girls in the household arts classes can make clothes for 
the poor children of France and Belgium who have been 
driven from their homes by the Germans. 

They can knit sweaters and hoods and socks for the sol- 
diers. They can help their teachers to show all housewives how 
to save food, how to can vegetables, how to use corn and 
syrups and beans instead of the wheat and sugar and meat 
that we have to send to Europe. 

The Junior Red Cross can be the power behind all move- 
ments toward winning the war. Its members will think pa- 
triotism, talk patriotism, act patriotism. Whether it is a cam- 
paign for thrift stamps, or for saving of coal, or saving of food, 
or any other kind of service, America will not call in vain on 
her future citizens, the members of the Junior Red Cross. 



Try to get every boy and girl in your school to 
Join and work for the Junior Red Cross. Remember 
that our country has about 22,000,000 school children. 
If all become members, the Junior Red Cross will be 
the biggest ''club" in the world ! You will be proud to 
belong to such a society. 



Questions and Exercises 

1. What is the difference between the Senior Eed Cross and the Junior 

Red Cross? 

2. Name some of the things done by the Senior Red Cross in times of 

peace. In times of war. 

3. What special services are asked of boys and girls by the Junior Red 

Cross? 

4. Why is it better to earn the money for your membership than to ask 

your parents to give it to you for this purpose? 

5. Mention some ways by which you can earn money for the Junior 

Red Cross. 



PART SIX 

WHAT IS DEMOCRACY? 

1 pledge allegiance to my flag, and to the republic 
for which it stands, one nation, indivisible, with liberty 
and justice for all. 

Abraham Lincoln 

Four score and seven years ago our fathers brought forth on 
this continent, a new nation, conceived in Liberty, and dedicated 
to the proposition that all men are created equal. 

Now we are engaged in a great civil war; testing whether 
that nation, or any nation so conceived and so dedicated, can 
long endure. We are met on a grea»t battlefield of that war. We 
have come to dedicate a portion of that field, as a final resting 
place for those who here gave their lives that that nation might 
live. It is altogether fitting and proper that we should do this. 

But, in a larger sense, we can not dedicate — we can not con- 
secrate — we can not hallow — this ground. The brave men, liv- 
ing and dead, who struggled here have consecrated it far above 
our poor power to add or detract. The world will little note, nor 
long remember what we say here, but it can never forget what 
they did here. It is for us the living, rather, to be dedicated, 
here to the unfinished work which they who fought here have thus 
far so nobly advanced. It is rather for us to be here dedicated 
to the great task remaining before us — that from these honored 
dead we take increased devotion to that cause for whi-ch they 
gave the last full measure of devotion — that we here highly 
resolve that these dead shall not have died in vain — that this 
nation, under God, shall have a new birth of freedom — and that 
government of the people, by the people, for the people, shall 
not perish from the earth, 

— Dedication Speech at Gettysburg. 

118 



What is Democracy? 119 

James Russell Lowell 
There can be no doubt that the spectacle of a great and pros- 
perous Democracy on the other side of the Atlantic must react 
powerfully on the aspirations and political theories of men in 
the Old World who do not find things to their mind ; but, whether 
for good or evil, it should not be overlooked that the acorn from 
which it sprang was ripened on the British oak. Every succes- 
sive swarm that has gone out from this officina gentium [mother 
of peoples] has, when left to its own instincts — may I not call 
.them hereditary instincts? assumed a more or less thoroughly 
democratic form. This would seem to show, what 1 believe to be 
the fact, that the British Constitution, under whatever disguises 
of prudence or decorum, is essentially democratic. 

— Essay on Democracy. 



Theodore Roosevelt 

Much has been given to us and much will rightfully be ex- 
pected from us. We have duties to others and duties to our- 
selves; and we can shirk neither. We have become a great 
nation, forced by the fact of its greatness into relations with the 
other nations of the earth; and we must behave as beseems a 
people with such responsibilities. Toward all other nations, large 
and small, our attitude must be one of cordial and sincere friend- 
ship. We must show not only in our words but in our deeds 
that we are earnestly desirous of securing their good will by 
acting toward them in a spirit of just and generous recognition 
of all their rights. 

We know that self-government is difficult. We know that 
no people needs such high traits of character as that people 
which seeks to govern its affairs aright through the freely ex- 
pressed will of the freemen who compose it. But we have faith 
that we shall not prove false to the memories of the men of 
the mighty past. They did their work, they left us the splen- 
did heritage we now enjoy. 

— Inaugural Address, March 4, 1905. 



120 Our Country's Call to Service 

Ambassador Walter H. Page 

What is the United States? It is a vast territory of great 
resources and a hundred million prosperous people, yes but more. 
The republic is a system of society, a scheme of life, a plan of 
freedom, a state of mind — an ideal that every human shall have 
the utmost possible opportunity for individual development and 
that nothing shall be put in the way of that development. It 
was for this and upon this that our fathers established it. This 
we haven 't forgotten, nor shall we ever forget. It is to make sure 
that this ideal shall not now perish from the earth that brings 
the United States into this war. High as the cost and great as 
the toll may be, we shall be better for standing where we have 
always stood, whatever the cost. 

— Great Days for the Republic. 



Elihu Root 



To this great conflict for human rights and human liberty 
America has committed herself. There can be no backward step. 
There must be either humiliating and degrading submission or 
terrible defeat or glorious victory. It was no human will that 
brought up to this pass. It was not the President. It was not 
Congress. It was not the press. It was not any political party. 
It was not any section or part of our people. 

It was that in the providence of God the mighty forces that 
determine the destinies of mankind beyond the control of human 
purpose have brought to us the time, the occasion, the necessity 
that this peaceful people so long enjoying the blessings of liberty 
and justice for which their fathers fought and sacrificed shall 
again gird themselves for conflict, and with all the forces of man- 
hood nurtured and strengthened by liberty offer again the sac- 
rifice of possessions and of life itself, that this nation may still 
be free, that the mission of American democracy shall not have 
failed, that the world shall be free. 

— The Duties of the Citizen, 



What is Democracy? 121 

WooDROw Wilson 
(extracts from the president's addresses) 

I am not bound to be loyal to the United States to please 
myself. I am bound to be loyal to the United States because I 
live under its laws and am its citizen, and whether it hurts me or 
whether it benefits me, I am obliged to be loyal. Loyalty means 
nothing unless it has at its heart the absolute principle of self- 
sacrifice. Loyalty means that you ought to be ready to sacrifice 
every interest that you have, and your life itself, if your country 
calls upon you to do so, and that is the sort of loyalty which 
ought to be inculcated into newcomers, that they are. not to be 
loyal only so long as they are pleased, but that, having once 
entered into this sacred relationship, they are bound to be loyal 
whether they are pleased or not. 

— The School of Citizenship. 



My dream is that as the years go on and the world knows 
more and more of America it will also drink at these fountains 
of youth and renewal ; that it also will turn to America for those 
moral inspirations which lie. at the basis of all freedom; that 
the world will never fear America unless it feels that it is en- 
gaged in some enterprise which is inconsistent with the rights of 
humanity ; and that America will come into the full light of the 
day when all shall know that she puts human rights above all 
other rights and that her flag is the flag not only of America, but 
of humanity. 

A patriotic American is a man who is not niggardly and sel- 
fish in the things that he enjoys that make for human liberty 
and the rights of man. He wants to share them with the whole 
world, and he is never so proud of the great flag under which he 
lives as when it comes to mean to other people as well as to 
himself a symbol of hope and liberty. I would be ashamed of 
this flag if it did anything outside America that we would not 
permit it to do inside of America. 

— The Meaning of the Declaration of Independence. 



122 Our Country's Call to Service 

The commands of democracy are as imperative as its privi- 
leges and opportunities are wide and generous. Its compulsion 
is upon an. It will be great and lift a great light for the guid- 
ance of the nations only if we are great and carry that light 
high for the guidance of our own feet. We are not worthy to 
stand nere unless we ourselves be in deed and in truth real dem- 
ocrats and servants of mankind, ready to give our very lives 
for the freedom and justice and spiritual exaltation of the great 
nation which shelters and nurtures us. 

— Address on Abraham Lincoln. 



For us there is but one choice. We have made it. Woe be 
to the man or group of men that seeks to stand in our way in 
this day of high resolution when every principle we hold dearest 
is to be vindicated and made secure for the salvation of the na- 
tions. We are ready to plead at the bar of history, and our flag 
shall wear a new luster. Once more we shall make good with 
our lives and fortunes the great faith to which we were born, and 
a new glory shall shine in the face of our people. 

— The Flag Day Address. 



Helpful Bulletins and Circulars 

The following pamphlets are published by the United States Depart- 
ment of Agriculture and will be sent to you if the supply is not ex- 
hausted. Check the ones which you think will be helpful to your family, 
fill in the name of your Representative in Congress or one of your 
Senators, tear out the slip, and send it in a properly addressed en- 
velope. Or, if you prefer, write a letter asking for the publications you 
desire. 



Des Moines, Iowa. 

Hon 

Washington, D. C. 

I am a pupil in the School 

of this city and have been studying Food Conservation. In 
order that we may know more in my home about the best meth- 
ods of conserving and preparing food, I am respectfully asking 
that the bulletins checked be sent to me. 

Very sincerely yours, 



34 Meats: Composition and Cooking. 
249 Cereal Breakfast Foods. 
256 Preparation of Vegetables for the Table. 
363 The Use of Milk as Food. 
375 Care of Food in the Home. 
391 Economical Use of Meat in the Home. 
487 Cheese and its Economical Uses in the Diet. 
496 Eaising Belgian Hares and Other Rabbits. 
535 Sugar and its Value as Food. 
559 Use of Corn, Kafir, and Cowpeas in the Home. 
565 Corn Meal as a Food and Ways of Using It. 
602 Clean Milk: Production and Handling. 
609 Bird Houses and How to Build Them. 
653 Honey and its Uses in the Home. 
717 Food for Young Children. 

807 Bread and Bread Making. 

808 How to Select Foods: I. What the Body Needs. 
817 How to Select Foods: II. Cereal Foods. 

824 How to Select Foods: III. Foods Rich in Protein. 

839 Home Canning by the One-Period Cold-Pack Method. 

841 Home and Community Drying of Fruits and Vegetables. 

853 Home Canning of Fruits and Vegetables. 

871 Fresh Fruits and Vegetables as Conservers of Other Staple 

Foods. 
881 Preservation of Vegetables by Fermentation, Salting, and 

Pickling. 
903 Commercial Evaporation and Drying of Fruits. 



123 



124 Our Country's Call to Service 

The following Bulletins and Circulars May Be Obtained Free of 
Charge by Applying to the Distributors, as Listed 

Recipes 

Best War Time Recipes. (Royal Baking Powder Co.) 

Bread Lessons. (Short Course Notes 5, Iowa State College of Agri- 
culture, Ames, Iowa.) 

Bread and Bread Making in the Home. (Farmers' Bulletin 807, U. S. 
Dept. of Agriculture, Washington, D. C.) 

Cheese and Its Economical Uses in the Diet. (Farmers' Bulletin 487, 
U. S. Dept. of Agriculture, Washington, D. C.) 

Corn — Its Value. (U. S. Food Administration, Washington, D. C.) 

Corn and Its Uses. (Short Course Notes 20, Iowa State College of 
Agriculture, Ames, Iowa.) 

Corn Meal as a Food and Ways of Using It. (Farmers' Bulletin 565, 
U. S. Dept. of Agriculture, Washington, D. C.) 

Do You Know Corn Meal? (U. S. Food Administration, Washington, 
D. C.) 

Do You Know Oatmeal? (U. S. Food Administration, Washington, 
D. C) 

Fifteen Recipes for Wheat Flour Substitutes and Cereals. (Women's 
Municipal League, 6 Marlborough St., Boston, Mass.) 

Food for Young Children. (Farmers' Bulletin, 717, U. S. Dept. of 
Agriculture, Washington, D. C.) 

Inexpensive Cakes. (Short Course Class Notes 12, Iowa State Col- 
lege of Agriculture, Ames, Iowa.) 

Leftover Foods. (Home Economics, Circular 2, Iowa State College 
of Agriculture, Ames, Iowa.) 

Official Recipe Book. (Illinois State Council of Defense, 120 W. 
Adams St., Chicago, 111.) 

Partial Substitutes for Wheat in Bread Making. (U. S. Dept. of 
Agriculture, S. R. S. Doc. 64, ext. S., Washington, D. C.) 

Preparation of Vegetables for the Table. (Farmers' Bulletin 256, 
U. S. Dept. of Agriculture, Washington, D. C.) 

Plain Patterns in Cookery. (Short Course Class Notes 23, Iowa State 
College of Agriculture, Ames, Iowa.) 

Recipes for Soups. (Short Course Class notes 11, Iowa State College 
of Agriculture, Ames, Iowa.) 

Simple Meals. (U. S. Food Administration, Washington, D. C.) 

Suggestions for Meatless Meals. (Short Course Class Notes) 21 
(revised), Iowa State College of Agriculture, Ames, Iowa.) 

Soups. (Short Course Class Notes 11, Iowa State College of Agri- 
culture, Ames, Iowa.) 

Start the Day Right. (U. S. Food Leaflet 1, U. S. Food Administra- 
tion, Washington, D. C.) 

Uses of Sour Milk. (Home Economics Circular 15, Iowa State Col- 
lege of Agriculture, Ames, Iowa.) 

Use of Corn, Kaffir, and Cowpeas in the Home. (Farmers' Bulletm 
559, U. S. Dept. of Agriculture, Washington, D. C.) 

War Economy in Food with Suggestions and Recipes for Substitu- 
tions. (U. S. Food Administration, Washington, D. C.) 



Bulletins and Circulars 125 

*War Cook Book for American Women. (U. S. Food Administration, 
Washington, D. C.) 

Wheat Saving Suggestions. (Emergency Leaflet 27, Iowa State Col- 
lege of Agriculture, Ames, Iowa. 

*For this pamphlet, enclose five cents in stamps. 

The Home Garden. List I. 

(For the Bulletins in List I, apply to Farmers' Bulletin Section, U. S. 
Department of Agriculture, Washington, D. C.) 

Beans, 289. 

Cabbage, 289. 

Control of Insects and Diseases in the Home Vegetable Garden, 856. 

Drying Fruits and Vegetables with Recipes for Cooking, 841. 

Fresh Fruits and Vegetables as Conservers of Other Staple Food, 871. 

Home Canning of Fruits and Vegetables, 853. 

Home Storage of Vegetables, 879. 

Onion Culture, 289. 

Preservation of Vegetables by Fermentation and Salting, 881. 

Sweet Potato Culture, 324. 

The Small Vegetable Garden, 818. 

Use of Corn, Kaffir, and Cowpeas in the Home, 559. 

Use of Fruit as a Food, 293. 

List II. 

Boys' and Girls' Club Garden. " (Extension Circular 24, The Extension 
Service, Massachusetts Agricultural College, Amherst, Mass.) 

Fertilizer Experiments with Muskmelons. (Bulletin 155, Illinois 
Agricultural Experiment Station, Urbana, Illinois.) 

Garden Crops. (Extension Bulletin 209, Oregon Agricultural College, 
Corvallis, Oregon.) 

Growing Tomatoes for Early Market. (Bulletin 144, Illinois Agri- 
cultural Experiment Station, Urbana, Illinois.) 

Have a Backyard Garden. (Circular 72, Agricultural Extension Serv- 
ice of the University of Wisconsin, Madison, Wisconsin.) 

Home-School Garden Project. (Club Members Circulars 3 and 4 
College of Agriculture, University of Nebraska, Lincoln, Nebraska.) 

Home Vegetable Gardening. (Circular 198, University of Illinois, 
Agricultural Experiment Station, Urbana, Illinois.) 

The Home Vegetable Storage. (Extension Circular 45, Massachusettr- 
Agricultural College, Amherst, Mass.) 

Possibilities of the Fall Vegetable Garden. (Bulletin 200, Illinois 
Agricultural Station, Urbana, Illinois.) 

The Srnall Vegetable Garden. (^Farmers' Bulletin 818, Extension 
Service, Connecticut Agricultural College, Storrs, Conn.) 

Shall I Plant a Garden This Year? (Circular 209, University of Illi- 
nois, Agricultural Experiment Station, Urbana, Illinois.) 

War Vegetable Gardening. Parts I and II. (National War Garden 
Association, Maryland Bldg., Washington, D. C.) 

Meats. 
Economical Use of Meat in the Home. (Farmers' Bulletin 391, U. S. 

Dept. of Agriculture, Washington, D. C.) 
Meats: Composition and Cooking. (Farmers' Bulletin 34, U. S. 

Dept. of Agriculture, Washington, D. C.) 



126 Our Country's Call to Service 

Mutton and Its Value in the Diet. (Farmers' Bulletin 526, U. S. 

Dept. of Agriculture, Washington, D. C.) 
Suggestions for Meatless Days. (Short Course Class Notes 21 

(Revised), Iowa State College of Agriculture, Ames, Iowa.) 

Conservation of Food. 

Care of Food in the Home. (Farmers' Bulletin 375, U. S. Dept. of 
Agriculture, Washington, D. C.) 

Conservation and Regulation in the United States During the World 
War. (U. S. Food Administration, Washington, D. C.) 

Economical Use of Meat in the Home. (Home Economics Circular 
No. 16, Iowa State College of Agriculture, Ames, Iowa.) 

Food Administration as Outlined by President Wilson and Mr. 
Hoover. (Bulletins 1, 2, 6, 7, 9.) 

Grain and Live Stock. (U. S. Food Administration, Washington, 
D. C). 

Home Card for Food Conservation. (U. S. Food Administration, 
Washington, D. C.) 

Household Conservation, Part I — Food. (Emergency Leaflet No. 4, 

Iowa State College of Agriculture, Ames, Iowa.) 
T'^usehold Conservation, Part IV. Home Management. (Emergency 
Leaflet 7, Iowa State College of Agriculture, Ames, Iowa.) 

Solving the Problem. (Speakers' Bulletin 3, U. S. Food Administra- 
tion, Washington, D. C.) 

The Standard Loaf. (U. S. Food Administration, Bulletin No. 11, 
Washington, D. C.) 

Ten Lessons on Food Conservation. (U. S. Food Administration, 
Washington, D. C.) 

The Food Shortage. (Emergency Leaflet 2, Iowa State College of 
Agriculture, Ames, Iowa.) 

War Service in the Home. (U. S. Food Administration, Washing- 
ton, D. C.) 

Wheat Needs of the World. (U. S. Food Administration, Washing- 
ton, D. C.) 

Selection of Foods. 

Choose Your Food Wisely. (U. S. Food Administration Leaflet 4, 
Washington, D. C.) 

Food for Young Children. (Farmers' Bulletin 717, U. S. Dept. of 
Agriculture, Washington, D. C.) 

How to Select Foods — I. What the Body Needs. (Farmers' Bulletin 
808, U. S. Dept. of Agriculture, Washington, D. C.) 

How to Select Foods — III. Foods Rich in Protein. (Farmers* Bulle- 
tin 824, U. S. Dept. of Agriculture, Washington, D. C) 

Sugar and Honey. 

Sugar and Its Value as a Food. (Farmers' Bulletin 535, U. S. Dept. 

of Agriculture, Washington, D. C.) 
Honey and Its Uses in the Home. (Farmers' Bulletin 653, U. S. Dept. 

of Agriculture, Washington, D. C.) 

Milk. 

The Care of Milk and Its Use in the Home. (Farmers* Bulletin 413. 
U. S. Dept. of Agriculture, Washington, D. C.) 

Uses of Sour Milk, (Home Economics Circular 15, Iowa State Col- 
lege of Agriculture and Mechanic Arts, Ames, Iowa.) 



INDEX 



Allies : 

Population of, 11 

Transportation to, interfered with, 12 

Where their food must come from, 14 

Why short of food, 12 
Barley, wheat substitute, 20 
Beans: 

Use of, to body, 48 

Wheat substitute, 20 
Beets, wheat substitute, 20 
Bread : 

Loaf, how to cut, 22 

Stale, use of, 19 

Substitutes for wheat, 20 

Value of slice of, 18 

"Victory," 22 

Waste of, 18 
Bulletins, free Government, list of, 123 
Butter: 

Necessity for conserving, 27 

Waste of in U. S., 27 
Central Powers: 

Airplanes, ruthless work of, 12 

Countries controlled by, 13 

Interference with transportation, 13 

Population of. 11 
Cereals, value of, 48 
Cheese, substitute for meat, 24 
Conservation of food: 

By careful planning of meals, 50 

By protection, 40-42 

By substitution, 20, 24, 28, 34-36, 49 

Charts for keeping record, 44, 45 

Pour important foods to conserve, 7 

Meaning of. 7 

Meat recipes. 59-62 

Necessity for, 7, 11 

Recipes, 47-73 

Sugar, recipes for saving, 63-68 

Wheat, recipes for saving, 54-58 
Corn: 

Twenty ways of using, 21 

Wheat substitute, 20 
Corn meal: 

Value of, 21 

Various uses of, 21 

Wheat substitute, 21 
Cottage cheese: 

Meat substitute, 39 

Value of, 39 
Diet, the balanced, 48-53 
Eggs: 

Substitute for meat, 24 

Use of, to body, 48 
Fats: 

Necessity for conserving, 7. 9. 27 

Substitutions for meat fats, 28 

Use of, for home-made soap, 28 

Various uses of 7. 27 

Why body needs, 48 
Fish, substitute for meat, 26 
Food: 

Puildingr, 48 



Careful serving of, 42 

Careless buying of, 42 

Carelessness with, 42 

Fats, 48 

For children, 70, 71 

How to keep, 40 

Mineral, 48 

Starchy, 48 

Wrong ordering, 42 
Fruits : 

Canning, 41 

Storing, 41 

Use of, to body, 48 
Fuel: 

Saving, 84, 86, 88 

Use of hard coal, 87 

Use of soft coal, 86 
Garden, the home: 

Amount of seed necessary, 80 

Best vegetables to grow. 77 

Cultivating or hoeing, 81 

Diagram for, 79 

Fertilizing soil, 76 

Location and size of plot, 76 

President's message concerning, 74 

Preparing seed bed, 77 

Reasons for raising, 75 

Selection of seed, 78 

Some garden don'ts, 82 

When to plant, 80 
Hoover, Herbert, message from, 8 
Junior Red Cross : 

Classroom work of. 116 

How members earn money, 115 

How organized, 114 

Membership fee. 114 

Purpose of, 112 
lef t-overs : 

How to use, meat, potato, bread, cake, 
vegetables, milk, cheese-scraps, 38 
Liberty Bonds, 7 

Meat : 

Amount used per capita, U. S., Eng., 

France, 24 
An ounce of. 25 
Exports of U. S. for 1916, 24 
Meatless meal, 26 
Necessity for soldiers. 7, 24 
Reasons for conserving, 7, 9 
Recipes for saving, 59-62 
Substitutes for, 24. 26 
Use of, to body, 48 
Waste of, 26 
Why needed by Allies. 7, 24 

Menu: 

For children, 71 

Recipes for "Victory," 52 

Sample for a day, 50 

Milk: 

Cottage cheese, 39 
Half cup of, value. 29 
Necessity for conserving, 
Substitute for meat, 24 
Use of, to body, 48 
Waste of, 29 



7, 9 



127 



128 



Index 



Nuts, substitute for meat, 26 
Oatmeal: 

Inexpensiveness of, 20 
Value of, 20 
Wheat substitute, 20 
Oat^, wheat substitute, 20 
Peas: 

Use of, to body, 20 
Wheat substitute, 20 
Potatoes : 

Consumption per capita, various coun- 
tries, 23 
Value of, 20 
Wheat substitute, 20 
Protein foods, 48 
Rabbits, use as food, 26 
Red Cross, 112, 113 
Rice, wheat substitute, 20 
Victory bread, 22 
Recipes: 

For conserving wheat: 
Barley yeast bread, 57 
Conservation pie crusts, 58 
Corn meal griddle cakes, 54 
Corn meal muffins, 54 
Corn meal yeast bread, 56 
Indian pudding, 55 
Oatmeal muffins, I and II, 55 
Potato yeast bread, 58 
Rye yeast bread, 55 
For conserving meat: 
Beef stew, 60 
Different stews, 60 
Dried peas with rice and tomatoes, 

62 
Fish chowder, 62 
Hot pot of mutton and barley, 59 
Meat pies, 60 
One-dish dinners, 62 
Rabbit in casserole, 61 
Savory stews. 59 
Tamale pie, 61 
For conserving sugar: 
Butter scotch, 66 
Chocolate eggless cake, 68 
Chocolate fudge frosting. 6S 
Chocolate peanut cookies, 63 
Cocoanut spice cake, 67 
Coffee cake, 67 
Date or raisin muffins, 67 
Daffodil biscuits, 66 
Fig crescents, 66 
Fig filling, 66 
Ginger cookies, 63 
Gum drops, 65 
Honey caramels, 64 
Honey drop cookies, 64 
Honeyed orange peel, 66 
Maple divinity, 65 
Maple drops, 64 
Maple fondant, 65 
Maple syrup cake, 67 
Marshmallow filling, 68 
Molasses candy, 64 
Oatmeal drop cookies, 64 
Peanut brittle, 65 
Sugarless sweets, 65 
Tea biscuits, 66 
Special vegetable dishes: 
Baked soy beans, 69 
Lima bean roast, 69 



Peanut loaf, 69 

Peanut soup, 69 

Dishes for children: 

Milk-vegetable soups, 71 
Rice pudding, 71 
Service : 

A catechism of, 7 
Army of, 22 
By saving, 18 
Soap, home-made, 28 
Stamps : 

Thrift, 7, 105-L09 
War-Savings, 7, 105-109 
Starchy foods, 48 
Substitutions : 
Pats, 28 
Meat, 24 
Sugar, 34-36 
Wheat, 20 
Sugar : 

Amount used per capita, U. S., 33 
Amount prescribed per capita by Food 

Administration, 33 
How to save, 34-36 
Importance of, in soldiers' diet, 31 
Necessity for conserving, 7, 9, 32 
Recipes for conserving, 63-68 
Record, to show family waste, 37 
Use of, to body, 48 
Waste of in U. S., 32 
Thrift : 

Money, 95-100 
Clothing, 102-104 
War-Savings plan: 

Thrift Stamps, 105-109 
War-Savings Stamps, 105-109 
Vegetables: 
Canning, 41 
How wasted, 42 
Storing, 41 
Use of, to body, 48 
Victory menu: 

Baked graham pudding, 52 
Buckwheat gems, 52 
Cherry juice pudding, 52 
Cottage pie, 52 
Economical cake, 53 
Lace cakes, 52 
Lima bean loaf, 53 
Meat and potato short cake, 53 
Polenta, 53 

Rye and corn muffins, 53 
Vegetable loaf, 53 
War-savings stamps, 105-109 
"Waste of foods: 

Buying "out of season" goods, 43 

Careless buying, 42 

In eating, 42 

In serving, 42 

Living out of paper bags, 42 

Wrong ordering, 42 

Wheat: 

Amount America must send Allies, 16 
Necessity of conserving, 7. 9. 16 
Recipes for conserving, 54-58 
Required by soldiers, 7 
Situation in Allied countries, 16 
Substitutes for, 17 
Wheatless meals, 22 



The WORLD WAR 



am 



WHAT WAS BEHIND IT 

by L. P. Benezet 
Superintendent of Schools Evansville, Indiana 



Cloth 368 Pages 64 Illustrations 24 Maps Price $0.60 



W/?V did ii happen? 

q Even when the flame of this great conflict had not 
touched our own people, this was a question on 
every grammar grade pupil's tongue. 

^ Now that kin are leaving homes daily to join the 
great army which is being formed to hilp make the 
world safe for democracy, the search by these pupils 
for an answer is even more thorough. 

q Superintendents and teachers are seeking a book 
for this purpose which can be fitted into the course 
with the least trouble or disturbance to present plans. 

q An examination of BENEZETS The World War and 
What Was Behind It will show how splendidly it 
meets the problem. 

q Stimulate interest in all History by using this timely little 
book at once in the Sixth, Seventh, and Eighth Grades! 



SCOTT, FORESMAN & COMPANY 

GhicaiCo ^^yf York 

623-33 South Wabash Avenue 8-12 Bast 34th Street 



DEMOCRACY TODAY 

Interpretations by Representative Americans 
EDITED WITH NOTES AND INTRODUCTION 

CLOTH 40c 
For all Junior and Senior High Schools 

[From Seventh to Twelfth Grade] 

CONTENTS 

I. Introduction 

II. Lincoln — Gettysburg Address 

III. Lowell — Democracy 

IV. Cleveland — The Message of Washington 

V. Roosevelt — Our Responsibilities as a Nation. 

VI. Wilson — The Meaning of the Declaration of Inde- 
pendence 

VII. Wilson — The American of Foreign Birth 

VIII. Wilson — America First 

IX. Wilson — The School of Citizenship 

X. Wilson — Abraham Lincoln 

XI. AVilson — A World League for Peace 

XII. Wilson — Message to Congress 

XIII. Wilson — Request for Grant of Power 

XIV. Wilson — War Message 
XV. Wilson — Flag Day Address 

XVI. Wilson — Reply to the Pope 
XVII. Lane — Why We Are at War 
XVIII. Root— The Duties of the Citizen 
XIX. Wilson — What Democracy Means 
XX. Wilson — Second War Message 
XXI. Wilson — Program of the World's Peace 
XXII. Wilson — Address to Congress 
Appendix — 

Lloyd George — The Meaning of America's En- 
trance into the War 
The Constitution of the United States 
Biographical and Explanatory Notes 

One of the LAKE ENGLISH CLASSICS—tKere are seventy- 
seven (77) volumes. Have you the latest edition of the MarsK 
Manual of Questions for Teaching English Oassics? 

SCOTT, FORESMAN AND COMPANY 

CHICAGO NEW YORK 

623 SoutK WabasK Ave. f Q 8 East 34tK Street 



I 













,'^'" ^>.% 






.-^ < 



^<^ \^!P/ /"% '^yws ^^ \ ^^p*^ / V ^ 









V^' 









H°X. 




^°-n^^ 



^. -v-r.^'- 0^ 












£^^^ 








■» O 



0_ .^'i''' o - " * '^^ ' ' ^^^ - L / . '^-. " ' a\ ' "v^. 



'^^ * 




^^n^ 






/,.i:^v^°o y,.^^.\ co^c;^^'"°o /., 




-/ ^^*'% -ap/ ,/% °«W^^' ^^% 







c° .K 











,-iq, 




^ov^ :^ 




















DEC 73 

N. MANCHESTER, 
INDIANA 46962 



\ 







<^ *-.♦«* .^0 








