Google 



This is a digital copy of a book lhal w;ls preserved for general ions on library shelves before il was carefully scanned by Google as pari of a project 

to make the world's books discoverable online. 

Il has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one thai was never subject 

to copy right or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 

are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often dillicull lo discover. 

Marks, notations and other marginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 

publisher lo a library and linally lo you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud lo partner with libraries lo digili/e public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order lo keep providing this resource, we have taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial panics, including placing Icchnical restrictions on automated querying. 
We also ask that you: 

+ Make n on -commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request thai you use these files for 
personal, non -commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain from automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort lo Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attribution The Google "watermark" you see on each lile is essential for informing people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use. remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 

countries. Whether a book is slill in copyright varies from country lo country, and we can'l offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liability can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through I lie lull lexl of 1 1 us book on I lie web 
al |_-.:. :.-.-:: / / books . qooqle . com/| 



— !•••»•■ 1 






I " 



•• m «m <#•*•■ »J 



I 



• I . 



* 





3 • 



.»♦*•< 



i^^M— WJ» ' "i" * ■■•**»•  •■. **•*•  •"• ■■■« » # • »r 



** >' 



] 



I • 



1 * 

J 



 ) { 






I 1 

I » 

i i 



,.*■■*• 



i ' 



i 



*« 



The Arthur and Elizabeth 
SCHLESINGER LIBRARY 

on the History of Women 
in America 



Gift of 
Wilbur D. Raymond 



FOOD SAVING AND SHARING 



* >/ 



^ym 



*j^s*^ 



FOOD SAVING 
AND SHARING 



Hi 



Telling Horcf flie Older 
Children of America. 
May Help Save 
- from Famine - 
Their m Comrades 
in ABied Lands 
Across the Sea. 



7 



rVep<ared. under the 
direction, of 

THE UNITED STATES 
FOOD ADMINISTRAHON 

in cooperation with. 

THE UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT 

OF AGRICULTURE AND 

THE BUREAU OF EDUCATION 



w- 



GAKDENCITY 



NEVTORK 



DOUBLEDAtfEAGE 6*COMPANY 

1918 






Sera 






COPYRIGHT, 19 1 8, BY 

DOUBLEDAY, PAGE & COMPANY 

ALL RIGHTS RESERVED, INCLUDING THAT OP 

TRANSLATION INTO FOREIGN LANGUAGES, 

INCLUDING THE SCANDINAVIAN 



n&-s c i 



V: 



FOREWORD 

The National Education Association, at its annual 
meeting, July, 1918, adopted a resolution calling upon 
the United States Food Administration to "prepare in 
a form suitable for use in public schools, and particu- 
larly in the upper grades, lessons and material supple- 
mentary to existing courses, which will promote the 
program of food conservation." 

In response to this request this little book has been 
prepared. It was written by Eva March Tappan, as- 
sisted by Alice Peloubet Norton, editor of the Journal 
of Home Economics; Henrietta W. Calvin, Specialist in 
Home Economics, Bureau of Education; C. F. Lang- 
worthy, Chief of the Office of Home Economics, Depart- 
ment of Agriculture; and Sarah Louise Arnold, Dean 
of Simmons College. It has been read and approved 
by H. C. Sherman, Professor of Food Chemistry, 
Columbia University. 

The manner in which the book can be used most ad- 
vantageously will be determined by the teacher and by 
local conditions. It is believed that the information 
contained in it may properly be included in the instruc- 
tion of American children at the present time. This 
information will enable the children to contribute intel- 
ligently to the success of the government food cam- 



vi FOREWORD 

paign, and thus aid greatly in the relief of the millions 
now dependent for their food upon the good will of 
the people of America. 

The United States Food Administration is grateful to 
the teachers for their loyal cooperation. 

Olin Templin 

Director of School and College Activities 

November I, 191 8. 



To the Girls and Boys of America: 

Now that the terrible war is over, you must be glad 
that you helped to win it by saving food for our 
soldiers and our unhappy friends across the sea. But 
our work of feeding hungry people is now to be 
greater than it has ever been. Many millions of peo- 
ple have been made free by our victory, but they are 
in the greatest danger of death from starvation. They 
look to America for food until the next harvest. 

We must go on saving and sharing with them as 
faithfully as ever. And of course you will want to do 
your part as you have been doing it. To save the 
world from famine will be a greater task than any of 
us can imagine, but we can do it if each of us does all 
he can. I am counting on you. 

Faithfully yours, 

* 

Herbert Hoover. 



GRACE AT TABLE 

1918 

Here we gather, dear All-Father, 

Round Thy table to be fed. 

9 Tis Thy gift, — our daily bread. 

As we gather to be fed 

Nations plead for daily bread, — 

Fighting son and anguished mother. 

Orphaned children, — all together 

Pray to thee for daily bread. 

At Thy common table, Father, 

Ask we all for daily bread. 

God, All-Father, hear our prayer! 
Move our hearts and minds to share 
With Thy children at Thy table 
This, Thy gift of daily bread, — 
Sacred gift of daily bread! 

Lest they perish, swift and eager 
Share we now our daily bread. 
Give through us, great All-Father, 
To Thy children, daily bread! 



SARAH LOUISE ARNOLD 



CONTENTS 

CHAPTm FAOB 

I. Food Saving and Sharing i 

II. Food in General 9 

III. About Fruit and Vegetables .... 13 

IV. Foods That Help Build the Body . . 21 
V. Cereals, Foods Rich in Starch . . . 27 

VI. Sugar and Sweets 37 

VII. Fats and Fatty Foods 47 

VIII. Hungry Europe 55 

IX. Where Is the Food of the World? . . 65 

X. What We Did About It 73 

XL What We Have Yet to Do .... 91 

XII. The Little Group of One 97 



proveyour 

Americanism 

eating less 



FOOD SAVING AND SHARING 

Not long after the outbreak of the war, it became 
clear that unless the Allies and the neutral countries 
could get food from North America, they would soon 
find themselves hungry. We were glad to send food. 
We put wheat substitutes in our bread; we ate less sugar 
than usual; and we kept meatless days— all in order to 
save food to send across the ocean. 

The war is over, but the coming of peace does not 
fill the empty plates of the hungry people of Europe. 
For some time to come, this must be chiefly the work of 
North America. We must do more than in the time 
of war because there are so many more people to feed. 
We must help not only the Allies but also the starving 
nations that we could not reach until they had been 
freed from the German invaders. It is not the Amer- 
ican way to leave any people to die of starvation. We 
must do our share, and a generous share. We shall 



2 FOOD SAVING AND SHARING 

probably have to eat less than we are accustomed to of 
some of the things that we like, and we shall have to 
be careful not to be wasteful. 

Some of us have fallen into the habit of being careless 
and extravagant in the. matter of food. Compared 
with the states of Europe, the United States is a young 
country, and the food history of all young countries 
is much the same. When colonists first come to a land, 
they usually find it for a time somewhat difficult to get 
food, excepting wild meat. Before long matters im- 
prove. The soil of a new land is rich and fertile, 
and soon food of many kinds becomes plentiful. Nat- 
urally, those who have not had all that they wished now 
enjoy the abundance, and take great pleasure in loading 
their tables with all sorts of delicacies. 

That is the way it has been with this country. But 
even before the war, people were beginning to find out 
that this fashion of living was foolish and extravagant, 
that preparing so many kinds of food in elaborate ways 
was a great waste of time and material, and that an 
overloaded table was in poor taste. In short, people 
were beginning to think more wisely about their food. 

When we began to send large quantities of food to 
Europe, we had to look at food in a new and different 
fashion. We had been in the habit of choosing what- 
ever we liked, provided it did not cost more than we 
could pay. We now learned that we ought rather to 
choose what we needed for health and strength. 

We had to send the amount of food that we could 



4 FOOD SAVING AND SHARING 

safely spare. We had to send the food that could best 
be shipped, and the kind that soldiers would like. No 
loyal American was so selfish as to keep the best of the 
foods for himself, and send the poorest and least appetiz- 
ing to the Allies and to our own boys on the front who 
were risking their lives for us. An American boy wrote 
home, "When I think that the food I eat in the trenches 
was brought to me more than 4,000 miles by land and 
sea, part of the way on new roads built by the United 
States, that her bread has followed me wherever I have 
been, I cannot tell you how proud I feel that I am an 
American. " To supply food to those who fight our 
battles is a noble task, but a nobler lies before us. To- 
day, millions of people have not sufficient food to keep 
them in health. We must eat wisely and economically. 
We must save and share. 

The world is large. It produces a vast amount of 
food, but there is also a vast number of people to eat 
this food. We never have much food stored up "against 
a rainy day." Even in time of peace, if all produc- 
tion of food should suddenly cease, the whole stock 
would be gone in sixty days. The world really lives 
from hand to mouth. The four years of war have les- 
sened production in many places and destroyed many 
fields. There is much less food in the world than usual, 
and if people are not to go hungry, no one must be 
wasteful. The whole world is like one vast family, 
seated at one common table. There is only a certain 
quantity of food, and if some people take too much, 



FOOD SAVING AND SHARING 5 

others will have to take less or go without entirely. 
This vast family is scattered over the world. The food 
which they need is also scattered over the world. Did 
you ever think how well arranged it is that we have 
different zones and that when the North Temperate 
Zone, for instance, is warmest, the South Temperate is 
coldest, so that the autumn of one is the spring of an- 
other? Even in places no farther apart than Idaho 
and Missouri, there is considerable difference in the 
time of harvest, so that the season for producing grain 
is lengthened and a greater amount of necessary food is 
brought into the world. In time of peace, trade and 
opportunity to make money by carrying products from 
where they grow to the places where they do not grow 
may generally be depended upon for the distribution 
of food. That is why people in New England or Michi- 
gan, for instance, can have early in the season peaches 
from Georgia, then from Delaware and New Jersey, 
and finally from their home orchards. 

In time of war and for a long while after such a war 
as we have just passed through, it is not enough to 
raise food or even to send it. wherever there is a food 
market and it can be sold at a high price. We must 
remember the "common stable" and realize that too 
much food carried to one place will leave too little for 
other places. Transportation is disorganized; it is 
easier to send to. one. part of the world or to one part of a 
country than to another. People must not use food 
wastefully or too lavishly, and then^have to. go without 



6 FOOD SAVING AND SHARING 

later. In short, everyone, in order to do his proper 
share of the work of the world, must have his proper 
share of the food of the world. To increase the produc- 
tion of food and to distribute it fairly needs a wise 
brain and a strong hand. This is why every one of the 
countries that were at war has needed a Food Adminis- 
tration, and why even with the coming of peace there 
will continue a need for careful economy in food. Rep- 
resentatives of these countries have held conferences, so 
this plan is really a world arrangement to provide for 
a world table. 

We did not go into this war because we were eager 
to kill people, but because we were eager to save 
people, to give freedom to those in bondage, and to 
make the world a safe and happy place in which to 
live. We have helped our friends, and we must con- 
tinue to help them. We must also see to it that those 
who have been our enemies are enabled to help them- 
selves. 

This little book was written to tell, first, what we 
did during the war to make sure that our own people 
and the Allies had their proper share of food; and, sec- 
ond, what we have yet to do as our share in providing 
food for the common table. Before we can understand 
this, however, we must know what kinds of food each 
person needs to make him ready to do his work in the 
world. That is why the book is divided into two parts, 
namely: 

i. The value of different kinds of food. 



FOOD SAVING AND SHARING 7 

2. What the United States did to provide food for 
ourselves and the Allies. 
It is worth remembering: 
That people are thinking more wisely about food. 
That we must choose our food for health and 

strength. 
That the whole world sits at a common table, and 

food should be shared fairly. 
That in peace, trade is the great agent of food 

distribution. 
That in war only a strong Food Administration 

can make sure that all are treated fairly. 
That to feed people wisely we must know the 
value of the different kinds of food. 



CHAPTER II 
FOOD IN GENERAL 

Not many years ago, if the question had been asked, 
"What kinds of food ought one to eat?" most people 
would have looked a little surprised and replied, 
"Whatever you like, if it does not make you sick." 
People in general thought of food as something that 
tasted good and made them feel more comfortable 
when they were hungry. Very few realized that 
different kinds of food served different purposes, and 
the mistake was often made of using too little or too 
much of some one kind. This was just about as reason- 
able as it would be to buy two hats when you had no 
shoes, or to go without underwear for the sake of a 
new coat. 

We are learning that our food is useful to us in three 
ways. The first is to give us energy for work and to 
keep us warm. When a room is cold, we make a fire. 
The burning of the coal or wood produces heat. If the 



io FOOD SAVING AND SHARING 

fire were under the boiler of an engine, it would turn 
the water into steam that would furnish the power to 
run the engine. If you work hard, you need plenty of 
the kind of food that gives energy; for if you do not 
have enough food of this sort, the energy will have to 
come from some of the fat that is stored up in your 
body. Then you will become thin and lose strength. 
On the other hand, if you work little and eat much, you 
may grow too fat, or you may clog the machinery of 
your body and so put it out of order and mak^ it in- 
capable of doing good work. 

The second way in which our food should be of use 
to us is as material for building up our bodies and keep- 
ing them in repair. When a man is building a house 
or repairing one, he needs wood or stone or brick; he 
needs glass and putty and nails and plaster, and many 
other materials. When a house is in use, something is 
always giving out and must be repaired. If the proper 
materials for repair cannot be obtained, then one part 
of the house after another ceases to be useful, and after 
a while the whole house becomes worthless. It is the 
same with the body. The muscles, bones, nerves, 
blood, and all the rest of it must have the proper sort 
of materials to make them grow and to keep them in 
good working order. We may eat entirely too much 
food, but if it is not of the proper sort, our bodies will 
become worn put and will refuse to do their work. 

Besides providing fuel and materials for growth and 
repair, food must also act as a sort of overseer of the 



FOOD IN GENERAL n 

machinery of the body. If you stop to think, you will 
realize that in your body there is a great deal of ma- 
chinery. To digest your dinner, for instance, is an 
important business and not at all a simple matter. 
To carry on this business the muscles and blood vessels 
of the stomach and the whole digestive apparatus must 
be kept in good running order. Machinery needs great 
care. Each part must be kept in the proper position 
to fit into the other parts and work with them. There 
must be no friction, everything must work smoothly 
and regularly and everything must be taken to the 
place where it is needed. When a man sets out to 
repair his house, he must not only provide the proper 
materials, but he must see that they are set in the right 
places and he must see that what is useless and worn 
out is carried away as rubbish. 

All this is the work of the food in the body, and it is 
high time that we began to think more wisely about 
it. 

It is worth remembering: 

That food is useful to us in the three following 
ways: 

1. Fuel food to provide power for work, and to 
keep us warm. 

2. Building food to provide material for build- 
ing and repairing the body. 

3. Regulating food to keep the machinery of the 
body in good running order. 



r 



O-na. Fruit ind fairtftWum 
US .Daporhntnt oi Atjncui-.ur. 









CHAPTER III 

ABOUT FRUIT AND VEGETABLES 

It is always interesting to visit a place where food 
of many kinds is for sale. People who live in the 
country are fortunate, for they can raise much of their 
own food; but they always enjoy going to the state 
and county fairs" where food is on exhibition and prizes 
are given out for the biggest potatoes and pumpkins, 
the best bread and cake and jelly and preserves as well 
as for the best sheep and pigs and oxen. In the city 
there are often food fairs, and in the larger cities there 
are generally great market buildings where farmers can 
bring their produce, have the use of a stall, and sell 
directly to their customers. In many of the smaller 
cities the "market" consists of a great room or hall 
with many counters, and on these all kinds of food 
are placed, carefully protected by glass from dust and 
flies, but open to view, and with each counter given up 
to some one kind of food. These counters are skill- 



14 FOOD SAVING AND SHARING 

fully arranged to induce customers to buy more than 
they intended, the meat and vegetables farthest from 
the entrance, because people will buy these anyway; 
and luxuries near the door, so people will be tempted 
by them when waiting for a car. 

Such markets are arranged for the benefit of the 
seller; but one might be planned for the benefit of the 
buyer, not the buyer who merely wants "something 
good to eat, " but the intelligent buyer who knows that 
each kind' of food is of value for some special purpose. 

Suppose there were such a market, or rather, a great 
food fair, larger than any fair that was ever held 
before, and that all the kinds of food that you ever saw 
were brought together so people could walk about and 
look and buy whatever they chose. They might find 
the food arranged in five great booths, so that each one 
contained the kinds of food that would do the same 
kinds of work in the body. In the first booth would be 
the fruits and vegetables, whose greatest value to us 
is in regulating the body. In the second would be 
milk, meat, cheese, and other foods that furnish pro- 
tein, a very important building food. Milk is useful in 
so many other ways that it might almost be put in 
every booth. In the third there would be chiefly 
cereals, such as wheat, oats, and rye. These, too, con- 
tain protein, and they also contain much starch, the 
cheapest kind of body fuel. In the fourth booth would 
be sugar and different kinds of sweets, fuel foods that 
we like for their flavor. In the fifth booth would be 



ABOUT FRUIT AND VEGETABLES 15 

butter and bacon, oils, and other fats. These are 
important fuel foods and they also make our food taste 
good. 

In a city small boys and girls are often sent to market 
to buy the food for the family. "They know what 
they are about," the clerks say, "and they get their 
money's worth." Imagine, then, some of these children 
with a market basket visiting each booth and selecting 
the day's food for their home. 

At the first booth, they would find all the kinds of 
fruits and vegetables ever heard of. There would be 
apples, pears, plums, cherries, oranges, lemons, and 
pineapples, all the varieties of grapes that ever grew 
on vines and all the kinds of berries that ever grew on 
bushes — for in an imaginary fair like this there is no 
reason why there should not be fruit from every country 
and of every season. Of course there would also be 
plenty of dried fruit, such as figs, raisins, apricots, and 
prunes. 

At the same booth, there would be vegetables of all 
kinds. Green corn and carrots, spinach, celery, 
salsify, lettuce, potatoes and sweet potatoes, onions, 
string beans, green peas, okra and cabbages, and all 
the other vegetables that ever grew in gardens or fields. 
There would be dried ones, too, for people are beginning 
to discover that they can dry vegetables as well as 
fruits, and if ever such a fair as this becomes a reality, 
there will be a great display of vegetables which will 
need nothing but water to make them ready to be 



16 FOOD SAVING AND SHARING 

cooked for the table. Boxes of dried carrots or potatoes 
or peas do not look quite so warlike as a machine gun, 
but they, as well as the gun, have helped to win the war. 
The process of drying made it possible to preserve the 
products of our gardens and farms, and dried vegetables 
take up so little room and weigh so little that they 
can be carried across the ocean far more easily than 
fresh ones. 

In these fruits and vegetables mineral matter is 
found, especially lime and iron. These mineral sub- 
stances are necessary to all the processes going on in 
the body, and an important part of their work is help- 
ing to make bones and teeth. If you leave a bone 
in weak acid, such as vinegar, for a few days, the acid 
will eat most of the mineral matter out of it. The 
bone will look much the same, but if you take hold of 
it, you will find that it will bend almost like rubber 
and can actually be tied in a knot. This shows how 
bones behave if they do not have enough lime to keep 
them stiff. Children's bones have a hard time in one 
way. They have not nearly so much mineral matter 
as those of grown folk, and therefore they are far more 
likely to be bent out of shape. If a little child walks 
before the bones of his legs contain enough mineral 
matter to strengthen them so they will hold up the 
weight of his body, he may become bow-legged. In 
another way, the bones of children have a great advan- 
tage. They do not break easily, and if one does break, 
it will soon knit, or grow together again, while if an 



ABOUT FRUIT AND VEGETABLES 17 

elderly person breaks a bone, it may never knit at 
all. 

Mineral matter is often found in some one part of a 
fruit or a vegetable more than in other parts. In the 
potato, for instance, there is much of it in the layer 
next to the skin. This is why potatoes ought to be 
pared as thinly as possible or the baked skin eaten. 
In any case, to throw away thick potato parings and buy 
other starch and mineral food is behaving like the 
woman who paid one man ten cents a barrel to carry 
off her old fruit baskets and wooden boxes, and on the 
same day paid his brother ten cents a barrel to bring 
her bits of wood for kindlings. 

Not only do the fruits and vegetables supply us with 
mineral matter, but they make our food more bulky, 
and this is an aid to good digestion. Fruits and vege- 
tables are useful, too, in giving us water, and we need 
much water, more indeed than most people are accus- 
tomed to drink. Sixty pounds of the body of a ninety- 
pound child consists of water. This is passing out 
constantly through the breath, as you can see by 
breathing on a cold window pane, and through the 
tiny pores of the skin, but more in summer than in 
winter; and we need a large quantity to take its place. 
When you are thirsty, it is not only your throat, but 
your whole body, that is calling for water. There is 
no water in sugar, starch, or lard, but there is in al- 
most all other kinds of food, even where one would 
hardly think of looking for it. In wheat flour, for 



1 8 FOOD SAVING AND SHARING 

example, there is a good deal. If you should keep ten 
pounds of wheat flour in a warm oven for a while it 
would weigh a little less than nine pounds when you 
took it out. The lost pound was water, and it has 
evaporated. Any one can see, even without testing 
the statement, that there is much water in fruit and 
vegetables. Grapes are nearly four-fifths water, toma- 
toes and celery more than nine-tenths. 

It is because fruit and vegetables contain so much 
water that they are difficult to transport, for not only 
do they spoil easily, but they are heavy and take up 
too much room. That is one reason why, in these days, 
when there is double work for every ship, we are asked 
to eat them as much as possible, so that the more con- 
centrated foods may be sent abroad. Entirely aside 
from the needs of the countries that have been at war, 
however, they are an extremely valuable food. 

In the old fairy tales, there was always one fairy who 
was forgotten and who made everything go wrong be- 
cause she was not invited to go to the wedding or the 
christening. There is a class of substances called vita- 
mines which are somewhat like the revengeful fairy. 
They are present in certain kinds of food in minute 
quantities. Little is known about the vitamines, but 
what is known is of the utmost importance, for it is 
certain that they are necessary to life and health. 
There are two kinds. A good deal of one kind is found 
in butter, the yolk of eggs, and in the leafy vegetables, 
such as lettuce, spinach, and dandelions. The other 



ABOUT FRUIT AND VEGETABLES 19 

kind is found in a great many kinds of food, especially 
in vegetables, in fruit, and in whole cereals. Both are 
found in milk. They, like the fairy, should never be 
forgotten at the feast. 

We know fairly well how much people should eat of 
some kinds of food; but no one has as yet found out 
just how much of the vitamines we need. One thing 
is sure, namely, that fruits and vegetables which con- 
tain them are a most valuable kind of food, and every- 
body, except babies, should have at least one pound a 
day. They are so largely water that there is very little 
danger of any one's eating too much of them, but in 
any case, it is better to eat too much of these foods 
than too little and the children with the market basket 
can hardly buy too freely at this booth. 
It is worth remembering: 
That the first of the five great groups is composed 

of fruit and vegetables. 
That we need, especially for the making of teeth 
and bones, the mineral matter supplied by fruit 
and vegetables,* and milk. 
That if we use fruits and vegetables and milk 
freely we are quite sure to get enough of thf 
vitamines that are needed to make us grow. 
That fruit and vegetables also help to supply us 
with water, and add to our food the bulk which 
is needed in digestion. 
That fresh fruit and vegetables are so hard to 
ship that we can help by using those that grow 
near home. 



CHAPTER IV 
FOODS THAT HELP BUILD THE BODY 

After the children with the market basket have se- 
lected their fruit and vegetables they will next come to 
a booth filled with eatables which look as if they had 
never seen one another before and were surprised to 
find themselves in the same company. Some are in 
bottles, some in jars or in their own natural shells, 
some are in wooden boxes or cartons and rattle around 
whenever they are stirred, and some stand out boldly 
in all sorts of shapes, ready to be sliced and sold. Per- 
haps you have guessed that the bottles hold milk, that 
the jars and shells hold oysters and clams, that the 
boxes and cartons hold dried beans and peas and nuts, 
and that the food all ready to be sliced off is great 
pieces of meat — beef, mutton, pork, veal, and other 
kinds. Besides these, there are eggs, cheese, and fish. 

It is certainly a queer collection at this second booth, 
for eggs and oysters, or pork and nuts, or beans and 



22 FOOD SAVING AND SHARING 

cheese, have not often much to do with each bther. 
In one respect, however, all these foods are alike; 
namely, they all contain a good deal of a substance 
called protein. It is by no means easy to extract the 
mineral matter from fruit and vegetables, but it is a 
simple matter for any one to get protein. If you live 
in the country, go to a wheat field, pick some grains 
of ripe wheat and chew them. They will soon become 
a gummy, elastic mass; and this is one kind of protein. 
If you live in a city, far away from fields of wheat, 
make a stiff dough of some flour and work it with 
your fingers in a dish of water or under a gentle trickle 
from a faucet until the starch is washed out; and what 
remains of the dough is the same kind of protein as 
that obtained from the. wheat kernels. Aside from the 
water in them, lean meat, cottage cheese and the white 
of egg are almost entirely protein. Dried beans and 
peas, peanuts and lentils, although really vegetables, 
contain so much that they belong in this group. The soy 
bean, which first came to us from Japan and China, and 
is now raised in large quantities in America, is more than 
one-third protein. Fish contains almost as much as 
meat, while milk and cheese are the best protein foods 
we have. 

The chief business of protein is to supply material 
for growth and repair. A child who does not have as 
much protein as he needs will become stunted. The 
body of a grown person does not increase in height like 
that of a child, but it is subject to constant wear and 



FOODS THAT HELP BUILD THE BODY 23 

tear, and if there were no way to replace what has been 
worn out, it would not take so very long for an active 
person to use up his body. A boy who goes barefooted 
all summer does not wear out the soles of his feet, or 
rather, what he does wear off is replaced; but he would 
wear out more than one pair of shoes if he gave them 
the same treatment that he gave his feet. Shoes wear 
out, but feet are kept in repair by the body. 

Protein is an absolutely necessary food. This is 
what gives it its name, for the word protein means 
of the first importance. Unluckily, most people make 
the mistake of thinking that in order to get protein 
food they must buy meat; and as meat is usually ex- 
pensive, they spend much more money in buying it 
than is at all necessary. If they only knew that cheese 
and eggs and milk, as well as fish and other seafoods, 
will take the place of meat altogether, and that beans, 
peas, and nuts will do a great deal toward filling its 
place, they would come home from market with fuller 
purses. 

There is one thing that the children with the market 
basket should remember when they stand before the 
protein booth — that not all proteins which the foods pro- 
vide are alike. Some come from animals and some from 
vegetables. Some can supply all the protein needs of 
the body, some only part of them. That is why, if 
we eat milk, cheese, eggs, or fish, we can do without 
meat altogether; but if we depend upon beans and 
peas, we need some milk, or eggs, or meat besides. 



24 FOOD SAVING AND SHARING 

Fish is an excellent substitute for meat; but it is a 
pity that we have so many whims and prejudices about 
it, and fancy that a new kind of fish cannot be good 
because we have never heard of it before. If you make 
a list of the kinds offish that you are accustomed to eat, 
you will find it a very short one, and yet there are at 
least seventy kinds of salt water fish and thirty of 
fresh water fish that we might be using as food. A 
number of these that we do not know are fully as good 
as those that we are accustomed to eating. Besides 
this we have salted, and dried, and canned fish. Many 
other countries use much more fish than we. We eat 
on an average only about one-third of a pound a week 
each, and most of us eat it only one day a week. Cana- 
dians average more than one pound, and English people 
average one and one-fourth pounds. It is foolish and 
narrow minded to be afraid to try new kinds. 

Milk is one of the best protein foods we have, the 
very best for children. People often think of milk as 
a drink rather than a food because it is a liquid; but 
they ought to learn that a glass of milk has as much pro- 
tein as a large egg or one and one-third ounces of meat. 

Many people look upon milk as merely a luxury, and 
therefore they are ready to strike it out of their fare 
if its price rises. It is a pity that they do not under- 
stand how necessary a food milk is. Compared with 
other protein foods it is not expensive. Do you know 
that when milk is fifteen cents a quart and eggs sixty 
cents a dozen, a quarter of a dollar will buy more 



. FOODS THAT HELP BUILD THE BODY 25 

protein in the form of milk than in that of eggs, and as 
much as in- beef at thirty-five cents a pound? Milk, 
too, contains fat and sugar and other things that the 
body needs. It is a better source of lime than any 
other food, besides containing the substances called 
vitamines that we have just begun to know about. 
Every boy and girl ought to have at least a pint of 
milk a day, and every child under six should use a quart, 
while grown people should have some every day. Buy 
milk and save money is a good slogan for the house- 
keeper. 

Even in skim milk and in buttermilk most of the 
protein and milk sugar and the greater part of the 
lime of the whole milk are found. Cottage cheese, 
even when made of skim milk, is a good substitute for 
meat. American cheese, too, may be used in place of 
meat, and has one advantage over milk in that it is 
not so bulky. A cube of cheese measuring one and 
one-fourth inches will furnish about as much protein 
as a glass of milk. Unluckily, we are not very sensible 
in our use of cheese. We ought to remember that it is 
one of the hearty foods and eat it in place of other pro- 
tein foods instead of when we have already had enough. 

Four large eggs contain about an ounce of protein, 
and so does a quart of milk, or half a cup of cottage 
cheese, or one and three-fourths cups of baked beans, 
or one-third of a pound of meat. Certainly, there is no 
monotony in protein foods and every taste ought to be 
suited with one or another of them. When the house- 



26 FOOD SAVING AND SHARING 

keeper goes to buy protein foods, however, she must 
remember that from day to day her family will need 
variety, and that some of her daily supply of protein 
should always come from milk. 

A wise man has said that no family should buy meat 
until at least a pint of milk has been bought for each 
member. 

/( is worth remembering: 
That protein is found in a great variety of food, 

both animal and vegetable. 

That protein supplies food for growth and repair ; 

and that it is therefore of the first importance. 

That there are different kinds of protein and that 

we need a variety, unless we get enough of the 

one best kind of protein food, milk. 

That meat is not necessary if we use the right 

foods in its place. 
That we ought to use more fish and to learn to 

know more varieties. 
That to buy milk is a cheap way to get protein. 
That every child needs milk each day. 



CHAPTER V 
CEREALS, FOODS RICH IN STARCH 

If the children are fortunate enough to live in the 
country they will feel especially at home when they 
come to the third booth, for here are the cereals, wheat, 
rye, corn, rice, oats, barley, and buckwheat, most of 
them ground into flour or meal. Of course, these are 
riot so interesting in their boxes and bags as when they 
were growing in the fields, but they must be looked upon 
with profound respect, for throughout the greater 
part of the world people eat more cereals than any 
other one kind of food. They are the cheapest of the 
fuel foods, they are easy to raise, and they are con- 
venient to store away because they are almost dry 
and they do not spoil easily. A wise man once said 
that he hated to see anything take up more room than 
it was worth, but he would never have said that of 
cereals. 

From cereals we get most of our starchy food, and 



28 FOOD SAVING AND SHARING 

the chief business of this is to supply us with energy. 
It has been kindly planned for us that, even if we can- 
not get food from the group best adapted to supply 
some special need of our bodies, food of another group 
may answer the purpose to some degree. The foods in 
the second group are the best providers of protein,but the 
cereal foods also will give us much of the protein that 
we need. 

The green things growing are a wise folk. 
They act as if they understood just what was best for 
themselves and also for the little plants that are to 
follow them. If you look at a kernel of corn, you will 
see, close to the end which clings to the cob, a small, 
yellowish part which often slips out when one is eating 
green corn. This part is called the embryo, or germ, 
and it contains the life of the kernel. It is always in a 
hurry to begin to grow, and if it is only given some water 
and left quietly in a dark, warm place, it will set to 
work promptly. Nothing can grow without food, 
however, plants no more than babies, and the mother 
plant has looked out for this very moment. The 
embryo itself contains protein and fat; but she has 
carefully packed this embryo into the kernel, and most 
of the kernel is made up of starch and other materials, 
which are just the proper food to give the embryo 
energy to push out of the kernel, produce its little 
roots and leaves, and set up for itself in the world. 
This is the early life not only of corn, but of all the 
grains. 



CEREALS, FOODS RICH IN STARCH 29 

In the olden times, beautiful stories arose from the 
facts of nature, and gradually became part of the 
religion of the people. They taught their children 
that Mother Earth, or Ceres, brought forth grain from 
the ground for them. They worshipped her and made 
offerings to induce hej to give them generous harvests. 
They made statues of her as a kind and gracious woman, 
bearing a horn of plenty filled to overflowing with golden 
sheaves of grain. They delighted in the story that 
Pluto, king of the underworld, once stole away her 
little daughter to make her his queen. He gave her 
jewels and all the precious treasures that are found in the 
earth, but still she was sad and longed for her mother 
and the sunshine of the upper world; and at length 
the king of the Gods declared that the little daughter 
might spend half of every year with Ceres above ground; 
that is, putting it into the language of to-day, the kernel 
of grain spends part of the year underground and part 
in the air and sunshine. It is perhaps because of this 
myth of Ceres that we picture autumn, the harvest 
time, as a woman bearing sheaves of grain or ears of 
corn. Whittier wrote : 

"Heap high the farmer's wintry hoard! 
Heap high the golden corn! 
No richer gift has Autumn poured 
From out her lavish horn!" 

The grains take their name of cereals from Ceres. 
To us corn means Indian corn or maize, but it is really 



3 o FOOD SAVING AND SHARING 

another name for grain, and in other countries is often 
given to the kind of grain that is most familiar there. To 
many Englishmen an "ear of corn "would mean a head of 
wheat; to the Scotchman, oats; to the Scandinavian, rye. 
In the Old Testament story of Joseph's brothers com- 
ing to Egypt to buy "corn" because there was a 
famine in their own country, "corn" means wheat or 
millet, and not the maize of America. Originally "corn " 
meant kernel, and this is its meaning in the words of 
Jesus, "Except a corn of wheat fall into the ground and 
die, it abideth alone." 

Cereals are all good manufacturers of starch, but 
they need sunshine, and our American corn especially 
needs the sun. That is why hot, sunny days are 
called "good corn weather." The starch in cereals is 
closely packed into tiny cells with thin walls of cel- 
lulose, the substance that gives plants their form and 
stiffens their stems. The stems are older than the 
twigs, and therefore, contain more cellulose; that is 
why they are stiffer, just as young radishes are tender, 
but as they grow older, they form more of this substance 
and become tough. We do not digest cellulose readily, 
but some things are useful even if they are not digested. 
Cellulose is one of them, for it helps food to move on 
through the entire digestive tract. 

Cereals are easy to cook, but they do need to be 
cooked a long time. This is because the little cells 
must be swelled with heat and moisture till they spread 
apart and their walls break down and set free the tiny 



32 FOOD SAVING AND SHARING 

grains of starch. To save time in cooking, many 
people buy the prepared cereals that are half cooked 
or entirely cooked before they are put on the market. 
What are called "rolled oats" are oats steamed and 
then crushed between heavy rollers, in order to break 
down the walls of the cells and set the starch free. 

There is very little difference in the amount of 
starch or other materials contained in the different 
cereals. *We have fallen into the habit of using wheat 
in its various forms more than the other grains, chiefly 
because it makes lighter raised bread, but it is not at 
all necessary, and the others will fill its place in the 
work of feeding the body. 

Some fruits and many vegetables contain starch, 
though not in nearly so large quantities as the grains. 
The legumes, for instance, peas, beans, lentils, and 
peanuts, besides attending to their chief business 
as makers of protein, also manufacture considerable 
starch. Another name for the legumes is the butter- 
fly plants, because their blossoms look like little butter- 
flies with their wings spread. These pretty little 
plants work hard to make food for us. They are no 
"slackers." 

Some of the fruits and vegetables which manufacture 
starch as well as sugar contain both substances at the 
same time, and sometimes one changes into the other. 
Bananas and apples contain much starch when they 
are young and green, and much sugar when they are 
older. That is why they can be eaten cooked before 



CEREALS, FOODS RICH IN STARCH 33 

they are ripe enough to eat raw. There is a pretty 
experiment that can be tried with apples and a few 
drops of weak iodine, showing the change of starch 
into sugar. Cut a half-ripe apple in two at right 
angles with the stem, and put a little iodine on the 
surface. Whenever starch meets iodine, it turns blue; 
and the surface of this apple will turn to a deep, rich 
blue. Do the same thing later in the season, and 
although the apple will be blue, it will not be of nearly 
so deep a shade. By and by, when the apple is ripe, 
you will find that the iodine will bring out hardly a 
trace of color. That is, the apple has changed its 
starch into sugar. 

In the shortage of grain, the potato is an excellent 
substitute. The potato is a tuber, that is, a part of 
the stem which grows underground, thickens, and forms 
a storehouse which is filled with starch. Every "eye" 
is capable of becoming a plant, and in the first place, 
the potato probably contained only what starch the 
eyes would need for their own growth. We have 
cultivated the potato, however, and so increased the 
amount of starch that it is now of much value for food. 

A potato is really very interesting, not nearly so 
commonplace as it looks. The courtly Sir Walter 
Raleigh thought potatoes a gift fit to bestow upon a 
queen, and more than three hundred years ago he is 
said to have taken some from America to give to Queen 
Elizabeth. If you cut a thin slice crosswise from the 
middle of a raw potato and hold it up to the light, you 



34 FOOD SAVING AND SHARING 

will see that it is not the same all the way through. 
Next to the skin there is a layer half an inch thick or 
less that is more nearly transparent than the rest. 
From the middle of the potato, irregular rays stretch 
out toward the skin in a sort of star. The sweet 
potato contains much sugar, but the greater part of 
both white and sweet potatoes is made up of little 
irregular rooms or cells, the walls of which are made of 
cellulose, and each cell is a tiny storeroom full of 
starch. 

Chewing even a raw potato will break open the cells 
and set free much of this starch, but of course the potato 
becomes far more palatable if it is cooked. There is 
much water in a potato, and heat will expand it and 
break the cells apart, and the little grains of starch 
will swell; and now the tuber is more fit for food and 
will give a generous supply of energy. If you happen 
to be a Boy Scout, and know how to cook without a 
stove, you can roast potatoes out of doors, but you will 
not carry them on a mountain trip, because they con- 
tain so much water that they are very heavy in pro- 
portion to the amount of nourishment in them. That 
is why potatoes are not so good to send across the 
ocean as the grains, which contain little water and are 
almost solid food. 

It is worth remembering: 
That most of our starchy food comes from cereals. 
That cereals are the cheapest source of energy; 
but must be thoroughly cooked. 



CEREALS, FOODS RICH IN STARCH 35 

That there is little difference in the food value of 

the various cereals. 
That some fruits and vegetables manufacture 

starch as well as sugar. 
That the potato is a good substitute for grain. 
That if you eat more peas and beans you will not 

need so much bread. 



CHAPTER VI 
SUGAR AND SWEETS 

The fourth booth in the great fair is the one that 
many children will like best, for here is sugar of every 
kind that you ever heard of — cane sugar, beet sugar, 
maple sugar, and even sugar of milk. There are also 
substitutes for sugar, such as honey, molasses, glucose, 
and corn sirup. Besides these, there are preserves and 
jam, and there are more kinds of candy than you ever 
imagined even in a dream of fairyland. 

Sugar is so agreeable that we are often inclined to 
, eat it in too large quantities or at the wrong time. 
Children are often told that if they eat sugar before 
dinner, it will "spoil their appetite." This is because 
eating it makes you feel as if you did not care for any- 
thing more, even though all the time your body may 
be in need of other food. 

We eat sugar quite as much because we like it as 
because we need it. We can get from fruit and vege- 



38 FOOD SAVING AND SHARING 

tables, especially dried fruit, all that we really require, 
though our food would not be so appetizing without 
some sugar. 

In one way, however, sugar is of great value as a 
food. You know that soldiers sometimes carry an 
"emergency ration," which is not to be used unless 
their regular supply of food has given out. Sugar is a 
sort of emergency ration. If you are climbing a moun- 
tain, a lump of sugar or a few raisins now and then will 
help you on. Soldiers find that they can stand a hard 
march better if they have sugar. Of course some other 
food, like bread, for instance, or a baked potato, would 
answer the purpose; but they have no time to stop and 
cook, and if they had, these foods would take a longer 
time to digest and yield energy. Then, too, soldiers 
like it, and it makes up to them in part for the sweet 
dessert most of them have had at home. These are two 
reasons why we have had to be as saving of sugar as 
possible, in order to send it to them. 

When people speak of sugar, they usually have in 
mind a bowl of white granulated sugar, but this is by 
no means fair to the other varieties. Nearly all our 
sugar comes from plants. Until about a century ago, 
all granulated sugar was made from the sugar cane. 
This is really a kind of grass, but a grass that might 
grow in a country of giants, for it is ten or fifteen feet 
in height, sometimes even twenty. The juice or sap is 
so sweet that children — and grown-up people, too — like 
to suck bits of the stalk. 



SUGAR AND SWEETS 39 

These stalks are crushed in a mill and passed between 
rollers to squeeze out the juice. Solids are filtered out, 
then the liquid is boiled several times, the sugar crystal- 
lizing after each boiling and being removed. This gives 
what is called raw sugar. It is brown, and to make it 
white it has to be washed and filtered through a special 
kind of charcoal made from bone, and then crystallized 
again. This is what we call refining it. The refined 
sugar is of a slightly creamy color, and sometimes it is 
blued to make it look white. If you examine a few 
grains through a magnifying glass, you will find that 
each grain is a little crystal. Molasses is what is called 
a "by-product" of sugar-making. It contains a large 
amount of sugar, but to get all this sugar into a crystal- 
lized form is a thing that the ordinary methods of 
sugar-making have not yet succeeded in doing. Mo- 
lasses is rich in lime, and so is better than sugar for 
growing children. 

Sugar is also made from large, sweet beets. These 
are cut into slices, and the juice is extracted and puri- 
fied. Then the liquid is evaporated, and a sugar re- 
sults which is exactly the same thing as cane sugar. 
It will make jelly and do everything else that cane 
sugar will do. Before the war, the French raised large 
quantities of sugar beets; but France's beet-bearing 
lands have been partly in the hands of the enemy or 
within the fighting zone and now, even though they 
have been recovered, they will be in no condition for 
agriculture for a long time to come. 



SUGAR AND SWEETS 41 

The same kind of sugar comes from one kind of maple 
tree that grows in many parts of this country. About 
the maple there is a charming story that, when one day 
the Lord of the Green Things Growing came to visit 
his garden, the plants were all eager to make him some 
gift. The rose and the lily gave their blossoms; the 
apple and the orange and the nut trees gave their fruit 
and were happy. The maple alone was troubled, for 
she had neither blossoms nor fruit to give him. At last 
she said sadly, "I have no beautiful blossoms and no 
delicious fruit, but I will gladly give you my own 
heart's blood." And that is the way, according to the 
legend, that the first maple sugar came into being. 

To make maple sugar, a hole is bored a little way into 
the tree and a "spile" pushed in. Through this spile 
the sap trickles down into a bucket, then is poured 
into a kettle or a modern evaporator, and some of the 
water boiled out, leaving maple syrup. Evaporating 
more of the water will leave a mushy — but delicious — 
wet brown sugar; and what remains after still more 
evaporating is poured into moulds, and soon cakes 
of "new maple sugar" are for sale in the stores. Maple 
sugar could be refined and made white, but it would 
lose the characteristic flavor which people like so well. 

Another kind of sugar is found in honey. In ancient 
times, before people had learned how to get sugar from 
plants, honey was very much prized because it was their 
only sweetening, and a land "flowing with milk and 
honey" was their way of describing a rich and fertile 



42 FOOD SAVING AND SHARING 

country. To offer a guest milk and honey was a special 
courtesy. People of those times were very particular 
where their honey came from, and the ancient poets 
had much to say about the wonderfully good quality 
of that from a mountain in Greece named Hymettus. 
Honey still comes from that mountain, and it is exceed- 
ingly good; but persons who have tried it and also the 
honey made in America from the blossoms of basswood, 
or of white clover, say that the American honey is fully 
as delicate. 

A kind of sugar called glucose is found in many fruits 
and vegetables, and also in honey. There is so much 
in grapes that it is sometimes called grape sugar. 
One form of this kind of sugar is made from the starch 
of corn, and is called corn sugar when it is sold in the 
solid form, or corn sirup when it is liquid. It is of 
common use in confectionery, jelly, preserves, and 
in canning. It is used, too, as a table sirup. In many 
countries the same sugar is made from potato starch. 

In parts of our country a sirup is made from sorghum, 
a plant that has been known in China for many cen- 
turies. Many farmers in a community will grow a 
field of sorghum cane, which is not unlike the sugar cane 
in appearance. One farmer will set up the mill and 
grind this cane for his neighbors. The cane comes to 
the mill heaped high in large wagons and the product 
is returned to the farmers in the large cans or vats 
provided for the purpose. The mill is a simple affair 
erected out of doors and turned by a horse or mule 



44 FOOD SAVING AND SHARING 

walking round and round, but it grinds the cane under 
heavy pressure and forces out the greenish, strong- 
tasting juice. The sirup is boiled in a series of large 
pans supported on bricks over a fire, and so arranged 
that the sirup as it boils runs over from the higher into 
the lower pans, leaving behind the impurities and be- 
coming clearer. When it flows from the last pan it is 
clear and thick and ready for table use. Ribbon cane 
sirup is prepared in many places in the south in the 
same way. 

Not only sugar cane and beets and maple trees con- 
tain sugar in their sap, but many other plants and some 
of the vegetables that we use commonly. The chief 
difficulty is that there is not enough in them to make.it 
worth while to extract it for the market. Fruits, 
especially sun-dried fruits, contain a good deal of sugar. 
Raisins, for instance, which will often take the place of 
sugar, are exceedingly sweet, and they are merely grapes 
dried in the sun, and contain only the sugar that was 
in them in the first place. Cakes and desserts that have 
raisins in them do not need so much sugar. Dates and 
figs are also good to use in place of sugar. 

While most of our sugar comes from plants, some is 
found in the animal kingdom. If skim milk or whey 
is boiled till most of the water is evaporated, and is 
allowed to stand quietly for a while, tiny crystals form 
and drop to the bottom of the dish. This is milk sugiar. 
It is an expensive kind of sugar. To make one quart 
of it takes at least twenty quarts of milk. It is 



SUGAR AND SWEETS 45 

not so sweet as ordinary sugar. Sugar of milk is 
used in dry medicines. If you are ever given small 
pills that taste rather sweet, you may be almost sure 
that they are made of sugar of milk mixed with what- 
ever medicine is needed. It is used too for babies' food. 
It is worth remembering: 
That sugar should be eaten in small quantities 

and never before meals. 
That sugar is of value chiefly as an "emergency 

ration" and to make other foods palatable. 
That sweet fruits will give us much of the sugar 

we need, and other important things as well. 
That many fruits and some vegetables contain 
sugar, but only a few of them in sufficiently 
large quantities to pay for extracting. 



a 



CHAPTER VII 
FATS AND FATTY FOODS 

If children are asked if they like fat, they usually 
say "no" very scornfully, for "fat" means to them 
the fat which comes on meat, or the blubber of 
whales that is eaten by the Esquimaux of the frozen 
North; and yet the average amount of fat eaten, or 
wasted, every 'day by people in this country is about 
five and one-half ounces, more than a quarter of a 
pound, and most children as well as grown people 
would think it pretty hard if they had to do with- 
out it. 

When the children who are doing the marketing 
come to the booth of fats, what will they see? They 
will see a good supply of more appetizing articles than 
pieces of fat meat and blubber. They will see rich, 
sweet cream, golden butter, bacon, and nuts, as well 
as suet, nut oils, lard, and dripping. Chocolate and 
peanut butter and cocoanut will be here too. Surely, 



48 FOOD SAVING AND SHARING 

the children will find something for their market basket 
which they will really like. 

The most common form in which fat appears on the 
table is butter, the fat of milk. Fat is lighter than the 
rest of the milk, .so it rises to the top in the form of 
cream and is skimmed off. Then it is poured into a 
churn and kept in motion with a dasher or paddle-wheel 
until the butter "comes," that is, until the fat has 
separated from the rest of the milk and is floating about 
the buttermilk in tiny masses. The motion is what 
causes the separation, and many a time a bottle of 
cream taken to a picnic in a carriage or automobile 
has reached the picnic grounds in the shape of butter. 
A few years ago, there was in the Patent Office in 
Washington a model of an odd sort of churn, on which 
some inventive genius had applied for a patent. It was 
in the shape of a rocking chair which, instead of arms, 
had cylinders. These were to be fiHed with cream; 
then the butter maker was to sit down in the chair and 
rock comfortably until the butter had come. 

After the fat has separated from the rest of the milk, 
it is worked and washed to make sure that the butter- 
milk is out of it; then it is salted and is now ready to be 
eaten. Of course creameries do all this work by ma- 
chinery, but it is not at all difficult to make a little 
butter with a bowl of cream and an egg-beater, and it 
will taste just as good as if it came from the best of 
creameries. 

The things nearest like butter are oleomargarine 



FATS AND FATTY FOODS 49 

and nut margarine. Oleomargarine is made chiefly 
of the fat of beef mixed with extra pure lard and cot- 
tonseed oil and churned up with milk. It is therefore 
a mixture of animal and vegetable fats. Nut marga- 
rine is made of vegetable oils, such as cocoanut, cotton- 
seed, and peanut. 

Some plants produce a large quantity of oil. Two- 
fifths of the flesh of the olive is oil, and there is even 
more than that amount in the kernel. Cottonseed 
is one-fourth oil. Even corn and oat meal contain 
some fat. The kernel of the peanut is nearly two- 
thirds oil. Cocoanut contains a great deal. The nut 
trees are so successful in their oil manufacture that if 
they were men, they would surely make their fortunes. 
If you put a thin slice of almost any nut between two 
pieces of paper and strike it lightly with a hammer, 
the paper will show a greasy mark. 

Nuts are usually eaten at precisely the wrong time, 
for nuts, like all fats, are highly concentrated food, and 
to eat a saucer of them as dessert after a hearty dinner 
is almost as foolish as it would be to eat a dessert of 
roast pork after a dinner of roast beef. Nuts should 
not be eaten just for flavor after a meal, but as part ot 
the meal itself, and as a substantial food. 

Since fat is to be found in so many different places 
and in so many varieties, any one whose taste cannot be 
suited by one kind or another must be hard to please. 
In a tablespoonful of butter there is about half an 
ounce of fat; but if you do not care to eat the butter, 



50 FOOD SAVING AND SHARING 

you can get the same amount by eating an inch cube of 
cheese, or twenty-nine peanut kernels, or better still a 
pint of milk. Surely every one ought to be satisfied. 

Fat is too concentrated a food to be eaten by itself. 
We put butter on bread, cream on cereals, and salad oil 
on lettuce; but not many people in a temperate climate 
care to eat a whole mouthful of fat meat or to drink 
a cup of oil. Often we cook our fats, using them for 
shortening or in frying. Food that is fried has often 
a particularly rich flavor, but frying needs more skill 
than other methods of cooking if the food is to be readily 
digested and palatable. Did you ever see a doughnut 
that was soggy and would leave a big stain of grease 
if laid on a piece of paper because it had not been 
fried properly, or potatoes that were soaked in grease 
instead of being dry and crisp ? 

Fat is sometimes spoken of as "hearty food," since 
it enables us to do hard work without a "gone feeling." 
This is because it stays in the stomach a long time. 
After the stomach has been empty a while, it begins to 
make remarks on the situation, and the possessor of 
the stomach feels a sensation of hunger. A slice of 
bread with butter on it keeps off this sensation much 
longer than the bread alone. On the other hand, if 
one has eaten too much fat, one's stomach feels un- 
comfortable and overloaded. Most people make the 
mistake of thinking that for a hearty food they must 
buy meat, but this is far from being true, for it is chiefly 
the fat in the meat which makes it a hearty food and 



FATS AND FATTY FOODS 51 

this can be obtained in other ways. People who are 
doing hard work need hearty or, as we sometimes say, 
concentrated food. This is why we had to save fat as 
much as possible in order to send it to the fighting men. 

Whether fats are solid or liquid makes no difference 
in their value as food. So far as that goes, a Brazil 
nut or a little olive oil answers the same purpose. 
There is one thing that makes a real difference be- 
tween the different kinds of fat. One kind of the 
vitamines that we talked about when we were visiting 
the fruit and vegetable booth is found in connection 
with fat, though only some fats contain it. This 
is necessary for growth, so if we are not getting it in some 
other way we must be particular about the kind of fat 
we choose. Milk fat (butter) contains it and so does 
egg yolk, and most animal fats, though lard does not. 
It has not been found in most vegetable oils, though 
corn oil has it. If we have plenty of milk and of leafy 
vegetables we do not need to think very much about 
this, for we shall be quite sure to get enough. 

By the time that the boys and girls with the market 
basket have finished their buying, they will have col- 
lected a good deal of valuable information about prices 
and kinds of food. On their next trip, they can start 
about their marketing in a more businesslike way, 
keeping it in mind that in order to make sure of proper 
nourishment for their family, part of their food for 
each day should come from each booth. How much 
money to spend is a question that affects almost every- 



52 FOOD SAVING AND SHARING 

one, and the best way to decide this is by making a 
"budget," as a well managed factory would, or just 
as the British Government does for its expenditures. 
After learning how much money can be spared for 
food each week, this should be divided among the five 
groups, not haphazard, but wisely and after careful 
planning. Supposing that in a household consisting 
of father, mother, and two children, it has been found 
that #10 a week can be devoted to food, a good plan 
would be to divide this among the five food groups, 
setting aside first a special share for milk. If the family 
lived in the city and everything had to be bought, the 
food budget might read somewhat like this: 

Milk $ 2 . 20 

Vegetables and fruit 2 . 20 

Proteins — eggs, cottage cheese, American cheese, fish, 

meat, dried beans, etc 2 . 20 

Cereals, including bread. 2 .00 

Sugar or other sweetening .30 

Fats ; '. 80 

Sundries .30 

Total $10.00 

If the father, mother and two children together re- 
quire as much food as three men doing moderately hard, 
muscular work, then their day's food supply might well 
be something like this: 

Fruit and vegetables (including potatoes) at least 5 pounds 

Milk, at least 2 quarts 



. FATS AND FATTY FOODS 53 

Eggs, legumes, meat, cheese, about I pound 

Cereals (including breadstuff's) about 3 pounds 

or less of these and more potatoes 

Sweets % to | pound 

Fats * -J. to | pound 

A wise choice of food is always an important matter, 
because upon this depends in so great a degree our 
health and our ability to do our share of the work of 
the world. It was especially important in the days of 
warfare, because America had to provide so much food 
not only for herself but also for those who, together 
with her, were fighting for the freedom of the world. 
It is even more important in these days of reconstruc- 
tion, of building up the world anew, and of trying to 
make it a better world than we have ever had before. 
It is worth remembering: 
That fat exists in many forms. 
That fat is a hearty food, too concentrated to be 

eaten by itself. 
That at least a part of our fatty food should come 
from milk or butter or from some other sub- 
stance that contains the kind of vitamine found 
with fat. 
That to spend wisely we should make a careful 
plan. 



• 



American Clothes and Real Milk Have Been Furnished to Many- 
European Children 



CHAPTER VIII 

HUNGRY EUROPE 

In one of the magazines published during the war 
there are some verses in which an American baby is 
supposed to speak. . He tells of the good times that 
he had and at the end he says: 

I'm fat and rosy and stuffed and pampered and happy, and maybe 
There's anything you can think of better to be than an American 
baby. 

Then another little one speaks, a French baby, thin 
and troubled, and with sad questioning eyes. His 
father has been killed in the war, and he tells what a 
lonesome time he has while his mother is gone to work 
all day. He tells of the miserable grass tea that is 
all she has to give him to eat. Then he says: , 

Once in a blue moon, there's a large, deep-voiced Person in Black 
Called the cure, who brings me real milk — just a little, but, oh, 



56 FOOD SAVING AND SHARING 

And when I see it coming, warm and white, I'm in such a hurry 

that I whimper and whine 
For pure joy, and the Cure smiles a bit, watching me, and says 

I'm the hope of France; 
But how can a chap be the hope of France when he can't get enough 

food to have a chance? 

Before the war, the little French babies had enough 
to eat, most of it raised at home and not brought in 
from other countries. France contains a large number 
of small farms, and nearly every one of them was culti- 
vated by the family that owned it. These farmers 
were anxious of course to have as good crops as possible. 
They were in general wide-awake people, and had no 
idea of carrying on their farms just as their grandfathers 
had done. They kept their eyes open for new methods 
and as soon as they found one that was an improvement 
on their own, they adopted it. The result was that 
France raised more of her own food than any other of 
the western Allies. • She raised more than one-third 
as much wheat as the United States, and she cultivated 
great quantities of sugar beets. She raised horses 
and sheep, but grass land was not ample enough to feed 
large numbers of cattle. There were, however, vine- 
yards without number; there were peaches and cherries 
and oranges and lemons, and wherever nothing elsewould 
grow, there were chestnut trees, and of the chestnuts 
•some of the thrifty French people made an excellent 
flour. The French are never wasteful, and they do much 
with a little. France was well-fed, busy, and happy. 



HUNGRY EUROPE , 57 

Then came the war, and everything was changed. 
In 1917, France raised less than half as much wheat 
as usual, less than two-thirds as many potatoes, and 
only one-third as much sugar. Her numbers of cattle, 
sheep, and hogs had greatly decreased. How did the 
war bring this about ? 

In the first place, there were no men to work in the 
fields. All able-bodied Frenchmen were either fighting, 
making munitions, or helping to transport soldiers and 
guns and supplies. The men left at home were those 
who were too old and feeble to do much work, the 
wounded soldiers, and the sick. Then, too, there were 
not so many fields as formerly. Some of the richest 
land in the country was either in the hands of the Ger- 
mans or had been overrun by them. 

War always means destruction, but military com- 
manders of other nations are proud of not injuring 
non-combatants and of doing no harm to the country 
through which they pass other than that which will be 
of military value to them. Roads and railroads must 
often be destroyed, wires and cables torn down, some- 
times wells blown up ; but the Germans set to work 
deliberately to do as much harm as possible. They de- 
molished famous buildings and works of art; they burned 
villages and towns; they bombed hospitals; they cut 
down fruit trees and vineyards; they poisoned wells, and 
did many other cruel things. The result is that people 
who struggled back to their old homes found only 
cinders for houses and waste land for cultivated fields. 



58 FOOD SAVING AND SHARING 

These people shelter themselves as best they can, but 
it is easier to put together something for a rough pro- 
tection against the weather than to raise wheat in a 
field that has been torn to pieces by shells. But the 
French women have done wonders. Wherever it was 
possible, a woman has always been ready to take the 
place of a man so that the man might help to defend 
the country. The women have cared for their children 
and the sick, they have toiled at all kinds of labor in 
factories and workrooms, caring not what it was or 
whether it was hard or easy, if only it would help 
France. They have ploughed and planted and reaped. 
Sometimes a few soldiers could be allowed to come 
home to help in harvesting, and sometimes prisoners 
of war have been of service in the farm work; but the 
greater part of the labor of raising food has been done 
by the French women with the aid of the aged and the 
children. 

France needed more food than before. The bravest 
troops cannot do their best when they are hungry, 
and whoever went without, the soldiers had to be fed. 
And then there were the Frenchmen who had been 
captured and who were starving in German prison 
camps. Food had to be sent to them if their lives were 
to be saved. The weather was unfavorable and the 
crops failed, but still the brave French women kept on, 
weary and suffering, but not complaining. 

In France to-day, butter, cheese, meat, and even 
potatoes are enormously dear. The only food that 



HUNGRY EUROPE 59 

« 

everybody can afford to buy is bread. The Govern- 
ment has kept the price of bread low; but it is rationed, 
and a ten-ounce ration card does not always mean that 
its holder can get in exchange the full ten ounces. In 
some of the mountain districts, what bread can be 
bought is black and has a disagreeable odor. It is 
made of chestnut flour mixed with oats, barley, and a 
little buckwheat. 

There have been no invaders on English soil as on 
that of France, but the British have been in the trenches, 
or on warships in the North Sea, or convoying troops, or 
making munitions in one or another of the 5,000 war 
factories of England. Here, too, as in France, women 
have stepped into the vacant places. They have acted 
as conductors on trains, as porters at railroad stations. 
They have toiled in munition factories. The petted 
daughters of noblemen have worked twelve hours a 
day side by side with women who have known nothing 
but toil all their lives; and they have all lived together 
in little villages built close to the factories. The beau- 
tiful velvety turf of England has been ploughed up and 
the great parks turned into potato fields; and here too, 
women have been hard at work. In spite of the labor 
shortage more food was raised on English soil the last 
year of the war than ever before. 

Nevertheless, food is not plentiful. One sort of food 
after another has grown scanty, then disappeared. 
Fats in general are scarce. There is only a little milk, 
and that is saved for the children and the sick. Turn- 



60 FOOD SAVING AND SHARING 

f 

ing grass land into potato fields is better to supply food 
for the people, but it is not good for the keeping of 
cows, and many have been killed. 

Everyone knows the brave and victorious struggle 
that Italy has made at the front, but not everyone 
realizes that her fight with hunger has been just as 
brave. Even to-day, her bread and meat and sugar — 
what she can get of them — are of poorer quality than is 
common in any other of the Allied countries. She 
needs coal almost as badly as food, for part of the time 
coal has cost #110 a ton; and even at that price, the 
railroads could hardly get enough to keep running. If 
she only had plenty of coal, what food there is could 
be distributed over the country; but as it is, even if 
there is sufficient of any kind of food in one part of the 
land, there is often no way of getting it to the other 
parts. 

Belgium was far more helpless than were these other 
countries. Belgium was what is called a neutralized 
state. The little country is not one-fourth as large 
as the State of New York, but it is so situated that 
any country controlling it could, if she chose, do great 
harm to England, France, or Germany. That is why 
these countries, as well as Austria and Russia, all signed 
a treaty declaring that, no matter what wars might 
break out, no one of them would ever attack Belgium. 
Belgium, on her side, promised that she would never 
favor any one country to the loss of any other. 

Everybody knows what happened when, in 1914, 



HUNGRY EUROPE 6r 

hundreds of thousands of German troops suddenly 
swarmed out of the trains at Belgium's frontier and 
demanded a passage through the country. But Bel- 
gium refused to break her promises. She marched 
out her little army, and how they did fight ! Of course 
they could not drive the hordes of Germans back, but 
they did delay them two full weeks. France and 
England had time to get some troops into the field, 
and Germany's plan to dash into France and perhaps 
capture Paris before the French could get their troops 
into position was spoiled. 

Everyone knows, too,, how the German armies be- 
haved after they had made their way into Belgium; 
how they murdered and tortured and looted and 
destroyed; how they shelled magnificent old buildings 
that had been for centuries the pride of the country; 
how they burned village after village because some one 
person was perhaps accused of firing a single shot at 
them. They seized the railroads, telephones, and tele- 
graphs, the canals, the cars, and the mails. Every 
little village was cut off from every other. They 
stopped all business; they carried off to Germany all 
that there was in the country of oil, wool, copper, rubber 
— anything they could make use of; and then they tore 
away from their homes thousands of men, women, 
boys, and girls and carried them away to toil in the 
mines and factories of Germany, manufacturing articles 
that would be used to help overpower their own people. 
Of course the Germans wanted only the well and 



62 FOOD SAVING AND SHARING 

strong; the old and feeble were allowed to remain. 
Little food could be left in Belgium after such treat- 
ment, and this was quite according to the plans of the 
Germans. They were not unwilling that the Belgians 
should starve. The more that died the better; then 
the land would be free for them to occupy. 

Americans promptly sent food to the Belgians, and 
four months after the beginning of the war the Com- 
mission for Relief in Belgium was formed. The wise 
work of this Commission and the generous sympathy of 
the American people and the Allies saved Belgium 
from starvation. "Never has a country had such 
friends/* said the Belgian minister. But at best the 
Belgians have had only just enough to keep them alive. 
More than half of them are still in soup lines. If means 
of industry and happiness are to be restored to their 
country, food must.be provided in generous quantities. 

Roumania, Serbia, and Poland are starving; so are 
Armenia, Finland, and some parts of Russia. Ger- 
many swept through Roumania, driving the Rouman- 
ians into a small corner of their land, the least fertile of 
all. They had no hope of resisting their foes, for 
enemies were on all sides, and they yielded. But they 
might almost as well have struggled till every Rouman- 
ian had fallen, for here, as well as in Serbia and Poland 
and Russia, the German troops seized everything in 
the shape of food that they could find. They searched 
not only storehouses and stores, but all the little cot- 
tages, and carried away everything that could be eaten. 



HUNGRY EUROPE 63 

The German governor-general of Poland commanded 
that every able-bodied Pole should go to Germany to 
work for his conquerors. This meant that for each 
Pole one more German would be set free, for the army. 
If a Pole dared to refuse, it was forbidden for any 
other Pole, even his own brother, to give him a mouth- 
ful of food 

War is always terrible, and some years ago representa- 
tives of the different nations of the world met at The 

m 

Hague in Holland and signed an agreement never to 
do certain things which added to its horrors. One of 
these things was that no conquering army should take 
supplies from the land it had captured unless it paid 
for what it took and did not leave the country in want. 
Germany signed this agreement, but, as every one 
of the lands that she has overpowered has learned, 
she did not keep it. In all these countries food for 
man and beast was seized, horses were carried off, 
and cattle and hogs either driven away or killed for food 
to supply the invaders. 

These are the reasons why so much of Europe is 
suffering from hunger, why the countries that have 
been crushed by Germany are more helpless than coun- 
tries have ever been before, and why they appeal to 
those who are in comfort and plenty for a share at the 
"common table/ y 

It is worth remembering: 
That France formerly raised more of her own food 
than any other of the western Allies. 



FOOD SAVING AND SHARING 

That much of the fertile land of France wai oveiv 
run by the Germans. 

That England, in spite of her labor shortage, has 
actually increased her production of food, 
though she still needs to import a great deal. 

That Belgium, swept clean of food, raw materials, 
and machinery, and with her people weakened 
by captivity, is still in sorest need of a helping 
hand. 

That Italy needs food, and also coal to help dis- 
tribute what food she has. 

That many other countries of Europe must have 
help to keep their people from starving. 



CHAPTER IX 
WHERE IS THE FOOD OF THE WORLD? 

If people have not proper food they soon grow thin. 
This is because the fat stored up in their bodies is being 
used up to feed them. They can live on it for some 
time, just as a bear is nourished by the fat in' his body 
during his long winter's sleep; but by and by, even 
before the fat gives out, the protein is called upon. 
By this time the person is not far from the point of 
starvation. 

Before the war most of the world got on fairly well 
for food. Occasionally there was a famine in one coun- 
try or another, but other countries sent ships of pro- 
visions or money to buy provisions. In those days 
provisions could always be bought somewhere. 

Why is the condition of things so different now? 
Where are the grain, the meat, the fish, the fats, and the 
sugar that used to supply Europe? If a country can 
raise the money, why can it not buy what it needs? 
65 



66 FOOD SAVING AND SHARING 

One answer to these questions is that there is actually 
less food in the world ; for millions of men who used to pro- 
duce it were called into the armies or to work on muni- 
tions, so that less food has been raised. Another answer is 
that the ground on the Continent which has been fought 
over is now unfit for agriculture. Still another is that 
few countries, if any, are in the habit of supplying all 
their own food, and if they are shut off from their usual 
places of buying, they are as much at a loss as we 
should be if all the provision stores should suddenly 
disappear. In some of these countries the people have 
been so busy manufacturing that they found it cheaper 
and easier to import food than to raise it. In others 
there are so many people in proportion to the area that 
sufficient land to raise what they required could not be 
spared. Often the soil or the climate is not adapted 
to produce what is needed. 

Then, too, there is the question of fertilizers. In 
Europe the soil has been cultivated for centuries. 
It will no longer do well without fertilizers. The ni- 
trates, which are used in fertilizers, are found chiefly 
in Chile, and these could not be imported during the 
war. Work animals have been seized by the contending 
armies or killed because there was no feed for them. As 
a result of all this, France has raised less than half of 
the wheat that she needs for her people. Poor Belgium 
has almost no wheat, and Italy only a part of what she 
needs. Though England has increased her production, she 
has raised only one-fourth enough to supply her people. 



WHERE IS THE FOOD OF THE WORLD? 67 

Even before the war, Austria-Hungary raised only- 
enough wheat for herself, and had little for her neigh- 
bors. As for Germany, she imported part of her wheat, 
and even what she has looted from the lands that she 
has overrun has not been as much as she requires. 
Then, too, the crops in these two countries have not 
been up to the usual mark. 

Before the war England, Ireland, France, Italy, and 
Belgium imported 750,000,000 bushels of wheat in the 
course of a year. Russia and Roumania were near at 
hand, both of them fine wheat countries, and a large 
quantity came from them. But Roumania was over- 
run by the Germans, her farm-lands were ruined, and 
she has no wheat or any other food to send to any 
country, or even to break the famine within her own 
boundaries. 

During the war Turkey closed the Bosphorus; that 
is, she allowed no ships to pass save those of Germany 
and Austria, and therefore no wheat could in any case 
be brought from Russia to the Allies. Russia is in a 
turmoil; the once fertile Ukraine has been in the hands 
of the Germans; but even if the whole country were 
united, many of her own people would still be hungry, 
for there is no way to carry food from one part of the 
country to another. Russia in Europe is one-fourth 
larger than all the rest of the Continent. She has mil- 
lions of acres of the best wheat land in the world, but 
few railroads. However, if the whole land were criss- 
crossed with railroads, they would be of little use be- 



68 FOOD SAVING AND SHARING 

cause of the lack of coal. Russia's best coal is mined in 
the extreme south or in Poland, which only the close of 
the war released from the hands of the Germans. 

Australia and India had hundreds of millions of 
bushels of wheat. Argentina can usually export part 
of hers to Europe, but her 1917 crop was not so good as 
usual. Moreover, it is a long way from Australia and 
India to Europe, and not so very much nearer from 
Argentina, and during the war the ships were needed to 
transport soldiers. A ship could transport a good 
many soldiers from the United States across the At- 
lantic in the time that it would talce to make a voyage 
from Australia to England. 

The Allies in Europe are lacking meat, for they have 
lost many of their cattle. One reason is that in the 
great need of meat, cattle have been slaughtered and 
used as food. Sometimes this was done because there 
was no one to care for them. Men who are fighting in 
the trenches cannot come home at night to milk the 
cows and feed them. Another reason is because much 
land that has been used for pasture has now been 
ploughed up in the effort to raise more grain for the 
people. Even before the war much fodder was im- 
ported, and now many cattle have had to be killed for 
the lack of food. In Belgium and northern France the 
invading Germans either killed the cattle or drove 
them to Germany. Australia and South America would 
have been glad to send more beef and mutton, if there 
had only been some way of providing ships. The 



WHERfi IS THE FOOD OF THE WORLD? 69 

United States and Canada have been sending both 
'meat and wheat to the extent of their ability. 

To lose cattle is of course a great misfortune for grown 
folk, but it is particularly bad for the children, since 
milk is the food that they especially need, as it gives 
them protein, sugar, fats, lime, and other mineral 
matter, and both kinds of vitamines in abundance. A 
pint of milk contains as much protein as two eggs, as 
much fat as an ordinary serving of butter, and even 
more sugar 'than fat. It also contains lime enough for 
one day. 

If more fish could be obtained and if people were willing 
to try new kinds, it would in some degree take the place 
of meat. Fish contairts considerable protein, some- 
times as much as 22 per cent., and some kinds, such as 
shad, mackerel, and herring, contain as much fat as is 
in some cuts of meat, such as lean round steak. The 
waters about England are swarming with fish, but the 
country's supply is less than half the usual quantity. 
One reason is that nearly all of her steam fishing vessels 
have been taken over by the Navy, and the fishermen 
of military age have been in service. Another reason 
is that the North Sea has been so full of mines that it 
was almost as dangerous as a battlefield; and still an- 
other is that the Germans were just as ready to sink a 
tiny fishing craft — even one belonging to a neutral 
country — as a large ship. It is estimated that during 
the first years of the war, about one-tenth of the food 
sent to the Allies was destroyed by submarines. If 



7 o FOOD SAVING AND SHARING 

Kipling should write another "Captains Courageous," 
he might tell a thrilling story indeed. 

Pork is needed in Europe even more than beef. The 
humble pig can no longer be despised, for he has become 
a highly valued member of society. Pigs are easy to 
raise. They are not particular about climate, and as 
for food, they will eat almost anything they can get — 
indeed, the people who eat the pig are really more 
particular about his food than the pig himself is, 
for of course the nature of his diet affects the quality of 
the pork, and in this matter the pig has no concern. 

An interesting question has arisen in regard to keep- 
ing pigs and cattle, namely, whether it is better to eat 
the grain ourselves or to give 'it to these animals and 
then eat them. Protein is valuable, and the pig, for 
instance, does not give back in the form of pork nearly 
so much protein as was in the grain that he ate; that 
is, the pig is not an economical machine for turning 
grain into meat, and cattle are still less efficient. On 
the other hand, in ordinary times more grain is raised 
than is needed for human food. Moreover, pigs are 
not fed on grain alone, but in large part on food that 
would not be eaten by people. 

Another point in favor of pork is that it contains 
much fat, and all the world is in pressing need of fat. 
Here the question of shipping comes in. Even if a 
pig is not an economical machine for making pork, 
he is the only variety of machine for that purpose yet 
discovered, and pork is an economical food to send 



WHERE IS THE FOOD OF THE WORLD? 7 r 

across the ocean. When economy in shipping is to 
be considered, we must remember that one hundred 
pounds of pork will take much less tonnage than would 
be needed to carry the fodder to raise the hundred 
pounds. After all, pigs really do their best for us. 
Fat, as has been said before, provides energy; and fried 
food, even when it does not "soak fat," contains a 
great deal. A doughnut contains from 20 per cent, 
to 30 per cent, of fat. The doughnuts that the lassies 
of the Salvation Army fry for the soldiers must be 
remembered with respect, for they have helped to fight 
our battles. 

'Sugar is a godd food to send, for it is concentrated 
and takes little space, and if it does not get wet it 
will keep indefinitely. Before the war there was a 
"middle Europe" of sugar beet raising — Belgium, north- 
ern France, Germany, Austria-Hungary, and part of 
Russia — which raised more than nine-tenths of the 
beet sugar of the world, and England bought more 
than half her supply from this source. France all 
during the war has continued to produce some sugar,, 
but she has been able to raise only about one-fourth of 
what she generally needs. Java has been ready to 
furnish sugar and would gladly furnish it to-day, for 
she has a large supply on hand; but, as in the case of 
Australia, the lack of ships has made it impossible to get 
the sugar from there. As soon as ships are available 
Java will send it to these countries. France and 
England and Italy have done their best and will never 



72 FOOD SAVING AND SHARING 

cease to do their best, but they need food and must 
have it. 

A little girl once listened to her mother reading a 

pitiful story from a paper. As the mother was turning 

the page, the little girl asked earnestly, "But mother, 

what are you going to do about it ? " 

li is worth remembering: 

That one who is not well nourished cannot do his 

work. 
That there is less food than usual in the world. 
That the world demands far greater supplies of 
food from us than were needed while many peo- 
ples were cut off from help by the battle lines. 



CHAPTER X 

WHAT WE DID ABOUT IT 

"What are you going to do about it?" was the ques- 
tion that we asked ourselves when we heard of the suffer- 
ings of the Belgians, We sent ships across the ocean 
loaded with food, and we sent strong, wise men to dis- 
tribute it among the starving people. Hundreds of 
Belgian children wrote letters to us in the best English 
they could muster — think of their courage in writing 
a letter to 105,000,000 people! — and told how grateful 
they were. One of these letters reads as follows : 

Dear America: 

I thank you because you sent great big boats over the great sea 
— eat-boats — rice, corn, bacon, stockings, clothing and shoes. 

I know that you like the little Belgians, and I like you, too. 

Achiel Maes. 

Then came the sinking of the Lusitania, the great 
steamship full of people who had never struck a blow 



74 FOOD SAVING AND SHARING 

at Germany. Of the 1^154 drowned, 114 were American 
citizens. Germany paid no attention to the protests 
of the United States and went on sinking vessels of all 
nations, ships carrying food to Belgium, Red Cross 
hospital ships, and ships of neutral countries, making 
no provision for the escape of the passengers, and some- 
times firing at them if they succeeded in getting into 
lifeboats. This was rank piracy, and the United States 
now declared war. 

There was another reason, and a strong one, for our 
entering the war. The United States is a democracy — 
that is, the people rule. Germany was an autocracy 
— that is, one man ruled and was answerable to no- 
body. The Kaiser did not formally notify his council 
that he had declared war until three days after the 
declaration was made. As country after country 
engaged in the war, it became a struggle between 
autocracy and democracy. Moreover, Germany meant 
to crush France, then England, and then attack the 
United States. For two years and a half England and 
France had been fighting our battles. It was high 
time that we took a hand. 

There were three things for us to do to help free the 
world from the danger of autocracy. We must lend 
money to the Allies; we must furnish an army to help 
do the fighting; and we must send them food. The 
United States is a rich country, and there was no trouble 
about lending the money. It is a brave, earnest 
country, and soon hundreds of thousands of young men 



76 FOOD SAVING AND SHARING 

were in the cantonments learning to be soldiers. To 
provide food was a more complicated matter. 

The first food that a hungry nation thinks of is bread; 
and "bread" means to each one the grain to which 
its people are most accustomed. We should think 
we had no bread if we had only rice in the house; but 
a Chinaman would think he had no bread if he had 
only wheat. Some of the people in this country have 
always been accustomed to eating more or less rye, 
oatmeal, corn meal, rice, and buckwheat; but our 
great dependence has been wheat. Other flours will 
make "quick breads," but wheat is the only grain that 
will make the light white loaf of yeast bread that we 
are used to eating. This looks well and keeps well, 
and it has not so strong a flavor of its own as to spoil 
the flavor of other food. 

This is the kind of bread to which the Allies are 
accustomed ; but there was not enough wheat to supply 
us and them, too, with the usual quantity. The best 
we could do was to "go halves," while both of us 
made up what was lacking by using the other grains. 
These grains will not by themselves make a loaf of 
raised bread that can be baked in a bakery and kept 
on sale, and it is bread like this which is necessary in 
France. French women always buy their bread. 
They have no ovens, and if they had, fuel is too dear 
for them to dream of doing their baking at home, while 
the baker can with a small amount of coal bake many 
loaves at the same time. 



WHAT WE DID ABOUT IT 77 

It is not easy to change one's habits of eating. Every- 
one has whims about his food. For instance, Italians 
fry in oil, but many Americans still feel that the frying 
material must be solid like lard when it is put into 
the kettle, even though they know that in three or 
four minutes it will become liquid. If potatoes should 
suddenly turn blue and bread scarlet, it would be a 
long time before we should relish them. Those among 
us who found it difficult to use less wheat and more of 
the other cereals are the ones who ought to understand 
best how hard it was for the Allies to become accus- 
tomed to putting other grains into their bread. They 
made no complaint, however, but were grateful that 
the American supply did not fail them. There was 
wheat in Australia and New Zealand and in Argentina, 
but ships could not be spared to carry it to Europe. 
From the United States to England is not only the 
shortest route, but it was also the best protected from 
submarines. In the time that it would take a ship to 
go from Argentina to England, it could carry two loads 
of soldiers from the United States to France. It was 
just plain arithmetic. The shorter the voyage, the more 
free ships; the more free ships, the more food and 
soldiers carried to Europe; the more food and soldiers 
carried to Europe, the sooner we could win the war; 
the sooner we could win the war, the fewer of our own 
boys and of the Allies would be wounded or killed. 
It was worth our while to send food. 

As in the case of wheat, meat could not be carried 



78 FOOD SAVING AND SHARING 

to Europe from distant countries for lack of ships. 
Meat is the best protein for transportation. Beef 
contains much protein, keeps well, and is condensed 
food. Pork is particularly valuable because it provides 
both protein and fat. In Ireland people used to 
call the pig "the gentleman that pays the rent." 
"The gentleman" does more than that in these 
days, for he has been trying his best to support the 
country. 

In 1917 not nearly so many pigs were kept as usual. 
This was alarming, because pork can be raised more 
quickly and easily than other meats. Hogs multiply 
rapidly, and have sometimes ten or twelve little pigs at 
a litter. The " keep-a-pig" movement had been started 
some years before, and now it took a new life. An 
effort was made to make people understand that a 
pig-pen need not be a bad-smelling place, that a pig 
likes to wallow in mud on a hot day, not because he is 
naturally dirty, but because the mud is as great a com- 
fort to him as a cool bath is to people. The pig is by 
nature a cleanly animal, and he appreciates fresh water 
and good food. 

Boys on farms became interested. "Have you 
bought a pig?" became almost as common a salutation 
as, "How do you do?" Before long the magazines 
began to print pictures of remarkably small boys 
grouped with remarkably large pigs. The problem 
was solved; and in March, 1918, we sent across the water 
six times as much pork as our ordinary export. 



WHAT WE DID ABOUT IT 79 

The men going "over the top" needed fat not only 
for energy, but because it would keep them from feeling 
hungry so soon, and that was an important matter 
when the time of their next meal was a question that 
no one could answer. In this country we use a great 
deal of fat, and if you should make a list of all the food 
that you eat during the day, and then cross off every 
article that contained fat or was cooked or eaten with 
fat, very few would be left. Before the war, England 
used, according to her population, nearly as much fat 
as the United States. Quantities of butter were sold 
to her by Holland, Denmark, Sweden, and Russia. 
The Russian supply soon failed. Holland, Denmark, and 
Sweden were neutral countries, but they needed Ger- 
many's coal, and Germany would not send it to them 
unless she could receive . butter in return. England 
made much oleomargarine, but even with this her 
ration of fat was only one-fourth of a pound per 
week; and often this small amount could not be 
bought. 

As to sugar, this is to us an agreeable luxury in a 
convenient form. A bright man once said, "Give me 
the luxuries and I will dispense with the necessities:" 
and when we were asked to use less sugar than was our 
custom, it really seemed to trouble us more than saving 
fats or wheat. Sugar has been very cheap, and we had 
fallen into the habit of using much more than we need 
and more than is good for us. Even in 1917, when we 
all thought ourselves so economical, we used an amount 



80 FOOD SAVING AND SHARING 

that the Allies would have looked upon as luxury. 
What was used in preserving, however, was "good 
business," for much fruit was saved that would other- 
wise have gone to waste. There was no danger of our 
suffering for sweets, since we had honey, molasses, 
corn sirup, and maple sugar, to say nothing of our 
sweet fruits, like plums, peaches, apples, and berries. 
We had dried fruits, like raisins, dates, and prunes, 
that are even sweeter. When you feel hungry for 
candy, eat some one of these, and candy will not seem 
half so attractive. On an average every person in this 
country spends about four cents a week for candy. 
In six months enough money goes into it to feed the 
hungry people of Belgium for a whole year. That 
looks as if we could get on very comfortably with less 
than our usual amount. 

One year before the close of the war, our Food. 
Administration was formed. It is not easy to realize 
the full meaning of a statement whose numbers go up 
into the millions, but sometimes it is worth while to 
try. Here is what the Food Administration has led 
us to accomplish in that one year. 

It was at first calculated that we must export to 
Europe 100,000,000 bushels of wheat. Then the wheat 
failed which we had expected could be carried to the 
Allies from other countries. The Food Administration 
explained the difficulty and asked us to use only two- 
thirds of our usual amount. By doing so we were able 
to send to Europe 141,000,000 bushels of the year's 



WHAT WE DID ABOUT IT 81 

crop. Of beef we had been accustomed to export 
one or two million pounds a month; but during this year 
our largest export in any one month was more than 
96,000,000 pounds. Our export of pork increased from 
50,000,000 pounds a month to 308,000,000 pounds in 
the month during which we sent most. Before the war, 
the United States and Canada together were accus- 
tomed to send to the countries of the Allies 5 per cent, 
of their food. During the closing year of the war we 
sent across the Atlantic eleven and three-fourths 
million tons of food, that is, 50 per cent., or one-half 
of their food deficit. This was done "by the willing 
service of a free people," but some one had to tell us 
how. Some one had to learn what were the best foods 
to send, to ascertain how much food was in this country, 
how much could probably be raised within the year, 
how much we needed to keep us and the Allies well and 
strong, how much we wasted, and how much we could 
save if we tried. We could not wait quietly till a 
starving country should say, "I need wheat, or meat, 
or fats;" we must learn the needs of the hungry lands 
and, just as far as possible, keep a steady stream of 
supplies flowing to them. 

This was not easy. It is true that any one who goes 
through our markets or sees our wide-spreading fields 
of grain might fancy that we had food enough for at 
least one world; but as a matter of fact, we have not, 
even in ordinary times, so very much more than we 
ourselves use. Yet the Allies must have their grain, 



82 FOOD SAVING AND SHARING 

their meat and other protein foods, their fats and their 
sugar. We must have ours, too. There would be no 
fairness in sending oyr troops "over there" only half 
fed; and it would take the courage out of the bravest 
of our soldier boys to know that their families at home 
were needing food. Here was a puzzle that demanded 
brains and wisdom, a wide view of every question that 
might arise, and a big supply of good practical common 
sense. That is why our Food Administration was or- 
ganized. Its prime object was to make sure that more 
food was produced, that it was fairly distributed, and 
that our soldiers, the Allies, and we ourselves,would have 
enough to eat. Its aim was not to make food cheap, 
for if food is too cheap, less will be produced. No one 
would buy cows, for instance, have all the trouble of 
feeding and caring for them and disposing of the milk, 
unless he could count upon a fair profit for his labor. 
No farmer would plough and plant and cultivate 
and gather in crops, unless he was reasonably certain 
that he would receive a fair price for what he had 
done. 

Our wheat crop of 191 7 was one-third below the nor- 
mal quantity, and the Food Administration set to 
work energetically to see what could be done. In the 
first place, the Food Administration and the Depart- 
ment of Agriculture worked together — and worked 
hard — to induce the farmers to plant much wheat. 
They sent agents through the wheat country to make 
addresses at granges; they helped the farmers select 



WHAT WE DID ABOUT IT 83 

the best seed and fight the insects and diseases that * 
might lessen their crop. The newspapers worked 
loyally and gave up column after column of their 
valuable space. 

But the farmers had a good reason for hesitating. 
It was possible that the war might come to an end 
somewhat suddenly, leaving more wheat on hand than 
would be needed; prices would go down and they would 
lose. To prevent this, the Government promised 
them a minimum price of $2.00 a bushel for the crop. 
The President, however, increased this price to $2.26 
a bushel at the Chicago market, whether the war ended 
in 1918 or not. For this purpose the Food Administra- 
tion Grain Corporation was formed which became a 
buyer and seller of grain. It either bought wheat or 
arranged for its purchase for the Army and Navy, the 
Allies, and some of the neutral countries that depended 
upon us for food. 

The Food Administration also organized a plan by 
which the buying for all the Allies was done through 
one source. To buy a few pounds of meat, for instance, 
is not difficult, but to buy millions of pounds is a differ- 
ent matter. At first each country bought for itself. 
Each of the buyers was afraid his own country would go 
hungry, and they sometimes bid against one another. 
A better arrangement was now made. Never was so 
much attention paid to beeves and hogs. Men who 
knew the meat business through and through decided 
how much the man or boy who raised the hog ought 



84 FOOD SAVING AND SHARING 

to have, how much the packer, how much the storage 
warehouse, and finally how much the Allies should pay. 
This plan made sure that every man who had anything 
to do with the meat should have good pay, but that 
no one should make exorbitant profits out of the 
needs of his countrymen or the Allies. 

Of course much more food had to be exported from 
the United States than ever before, nearly twice as 
much. Could this be done? In an autocracy the ruler 
could say to his subjects, "Raise more food and eat 
less," and they would have to obey. All the Allies 
were rationed; but in a democracy, and especially in a 
land as large as ours, to enforce such a law would need a 
whole army of officials and would be exceedingly ex- 
pensive. Moreover, although it might be done in the 
cities, it would be almost impossible in the country, 
where people raise so much of their own food. The 
Food Administration believed that just as soon as 
Americans understood the situation, they would "play 
fair," and would use in their households only a fixed 
amount of the foods of which we had not a large supply. 
It explained the situation and asked every American 
to help. 

"Don't waste," it said, "and don't hoard. Even 
if there is plenty of some one kind of food and you in- 
tend to use it very economically, don't store up more 
than you need at the time. If you do, more will have 
to be brought for other people, and our railroads have 
all they can do to bring what is absolutely necessary. 



WHAT WE DID ABOUT IT 85 

Use food that is nearest and save transportation. Plant 
a garden and raise your own food." 

The people of the United States responded most 
willingly to these requests. Clubs of all sorts were 
formed whose object was either to increase the produc- 
tion of food or to save food. There were pig clubs, corn 
clubs, and canning clubs; there were war gardens and 
school gardens. Everybody who had a bit of land did 
his best to raise vegetables to supply his own table and 
to sell. Long before the war, the Garden City move- 
ment began, and now the boys and girls set to work 
with double energy. Many of them canned their 
spare produce. In some places these "young citizens" 
gave a Thanksgiving dinner of their own raising to a 
group of children who had had no opportunity to make 
gardens of their own. "And I tell you it was some 
dinner," said one of the boys enthusiastically. 

An even wider movement than the Garden City is 
the School Garden Army. The name tells in part 
what it is; but it does not tell that it is recognized by 
the President of the United States as a real army, 
which has already more than 1,500,000 enlisted soldiers. 
"They really will be soldiers, although not old enough 
to fight," says Secretary Lane. Every "garden sol- 
dier," boy or girl, is entitled to wear a little bronze 
bar with the letters "U. S. S. G. A." on it; and any one 
can guess what that means. The Army was organized 
early in the spring of 1918, and in its first season it has 
produced millions of dollars' worth of food stuffs. 



86 FOOD SAVING AND SHARING 

One of the slogans, or rather, the war cries, of this 
Army is, ■»* 

Uncle Sam's in need, 
Pull the weed, 
Plant the seed. 

So it was that Americans justified the confidence of 
the Food Administration and, what is more, they did it 
good-naturedly. Everybody knows the merry little 
rhyme beginning: 

My Tuesdays are wheatless, 
My Wednesdays are meatless, 
I'm getting more eatless each day. 

The Germans got hold of it and translated it, leaving 
out the fun, and published it as a bitter complaint of 
the Americans because of the rapidly increasing short- 
age of food ! 

In war time prices always rise, sometimes because 
for one reason or another there is a smaller supply; but 
sometimes because the fact that one thing rises is 
made an excuse for increasing the price of others. 
Suppose there was only one bicycle in a place and 
ten boys wanted to buy it. The one who could pay 
most would be likely to get it. The price of wheat 
was fixed by Congress. The result was that, while 
in the Spring of 1917 flour cost $16.75 a barrel whole- 
sale, flour from the 1917 wheat crop was sold at $9.80; 
and the farmer received a much larger share of the 
price than the previous year. The Government has re- 



WHAT WE DID ABOUT IT 87 

quired men who dealt in food for people or animals to 
any extent to take out a license. If they did not do 
this, they had to pay a penalty. Dealers who charged 
more than the lawful price were severely punished by 
fines or by having their stores closed for a certain 
number of days or weeks. People who buy in large 
quantities know what they are paying; but people 
who buy in small quantities do not always stop to 
reckon what a barrel of flour would come to if paid for 
at the rate that they pay for a few pounds. For in- 
stance, it was found that a dealer who had been selling 
flour a few pounds at a time was charging at the rate of 
$20.00 a barrel. He was punished by being forbidden 
to open his store till the end of the war. The Govern- 
ment issued licenses to dealers in certain foods, and 
the Food Administration was sometimes able to control 
prices by making agreements with those who sold them. 
During our Civil War, sugar cost at one time thirty 
and one-half cents a pound wholesale; and it would have 
surely gone as high as that during this war if the price 
had not been fixed and dealers forbidden to go beyond it. 
The Food Administration kept in touch with all 
changes of situation and told us what was necessary 
to be done to meet every emergency. Supposing, for 
instance, that 100,000 hogs were ready for market and a 
heavy storm put the railroads in difficulties for a number 
of days, telegrams flashed over the country would ask 
people to use less pork. When the railroads were 
again in running order, there might be for a little time 



88 FOOD SAVING AND SHARING 

too much pork for the storehouses and ships; so people 
were then told that they did not need to do without 
pork. There were constant changes in the requests of 
the Food Administration; but this was not because its 
"forethought came afterward," but because it watched 
the changing conditions of the country so closely and 
advised so wisely. 

The Food Administration was of course looking out 
as carefully for us as for the Allies. Our railroads were 
overwhelmed with war work. They had enough to do 
in time of peace, but during the war they were called 
upon to transport ammunition, guns, machinery, food 
for "over there," all sorts of supplies, and the troops 
themselves. Each of the countries had to receive, as far 
as possible, its proper share of the various kinds of 
food. Even if this food had been safely put up in store- 
houses, the question would still have been a large one; 
but when plans had to be made, much of it was still 
growing in the fields -or running about on four legs. 
The probable amount of it had to be estimated, and 
crops are rather uncertain things to deal with. Too 
much rain, too little rain, or some new species of insect 
may easily make a difference of millions of bushels in 
the harvest. 

Not guns only, but guns and work and food were 
what won the war. "I'm tired of using substitutes 
and hearing so much about saving food," said a thought- 
less woman; but did it tire her to hear that we were vic- 
torious? The Germans hoped that we should all get 



WHAT WE DID ABOUT IT 89 

"tired of using substitutes" and so help them to win; 
but that is not the American way. 
/( is worth remembering: 
That in an autocracy one man rules; in a democ- 
racy the people rule. 
That the work of feeding the Allies fell largely 

upon North America as the nearest country. 
That the Food Administration was formed to 
make sure of greater production of food and a 
fair distribution of it. 
That under the guidance of the Food Adminis- 
tration our exports of food to Europe were al- 
most doubled; and that this was done "by the 
willing service of a free people." 



With All Able-bodied Men at the Front French Women Have Had 
to Raise the Crops for Their Homes and Their Armies as Well 



CHAPTER Xl 
WHAT WE HAVE YET TO DO 

When the armistice was signed, we promptly cele- 
brated in all sorts of ways. These ranged from long 
processions and the firing of great cannon to the method 
of one man who, as a sign of the return of peace and 
plenty, joyfully dropped into his coffee two lumps of 
sugar instead of one. 

At the very first, most of us thought of nothing except 
that the war was over and the boys would come home. 
There would be no more "substitutes," and the sugar 
bowl would again hold the place of honor on our table. 
But the more thoughtful among us realized that, al- 
though we need no longer fight to free the nations 
crushed by Germany, we had still to wage a battle 
with hunger. If you should learn that one person in the 
house next to your own had died of hunger, it would 
seem to you a terrible thing. You can hardly imagine 
the horror of learning that one out of every four among 



92 FOOD SAVING AND SHARING 

your neighbors had been starved; but in Poland one 
person out of every four has died for lack of food; in 
Serbia one out of every two; and in Armenia more than 
half of the people have perished of hunger. 

Peace has come, but it has not brought food to the 
hungry. Look at the Hunger Map (see Frontispiece) and 
remember that every little country on the page is not 
merely an outline, but represents millions of people 
who are suffering from hunger. Those still alive in 
Poland, Roumania, and Serbia, in Armenia and Finland, 
are starving. So they are in large parts of Russia which 
were shut off from our help before the Germans were 
forced to depart from them. Not one country in 
Europe has food enough to keep its people from going 
hungry. France, Italy, and the British Isles, have not 
as much as they actually need. Norway, Sweden, 
Denmark, Holland, Spain, and Portugal have to get 
on with much less than their usual supply. We have 
helped to rescue the people of Belgium from starvation, 
but even the Belgians have had only just enough to 
save their lives. Surely, the coming of victory ought 
at least to bring them food enough to make their lives 
endurable. Then, too, there are the people of Bul- 
garia, Turkey, and other conquered nations. Many of 
these will starve unless given help. They have had to 
make an unconditional surrender, and we are in honor 
bound to make it possible for them to buy food. 

There is another reason why we must send food to 
Europe. We have sacrificed the lives of thousands of our 



WHAT WE HAVE YET TO DO 93 

men, and we have spent many billions of dollars that 
the world might be made safe. We are longing for a 
world of peace and order, a world in which a man shall 
be free to do his best work under the best conditions. 
Starving people have little regard for law or the rights 
of others. Lawlessness spreads rapidly. Two or three 
selfish, disagreeable boys will spoil a whole playground; 
and in the same way a few millions of hungry, unhappy, 
discontented people will spoil a world. To protect 
ourselves, we must do our best to protect those who are 
in need of our help. To refuse would be to undo the 
good work already done. 

The people of the hungry countries will do for them- 
selves all that any one could do. They will be saving 
of food of course; but they must have food to save. 
They will cultivate the ground, but they must get theii 
ground into proper condition to cultivate. Just im- 
agine trying to make a war garden in a field that had 
.been torn up by shells and shrapnel, a field that was 
"nothing but a network of holes," as one of the soldiers 
said. And it is in such fields that hundreds of thou- 
sands of people will toil to produce their bread. It is no 
wonder that they need help. 

There is still another difficulty. Many of the men 
who would have done their best to cultivate these shell- 
torn fields have been killed or wounded. All who re- 
turn will be more or less weakened by the long struggle. 
There will be a shortage of workers, and there will be 
a vast amount of work to be done. Think what you 



94 FOOD SAVING AND SHARING 

would have to do if you had come back to your home 
after four years of war and had found the house, and 
perhaps the whole village or city, nothing but a mass 
of stones and ashes and cinders. Think of coming 
back to a farm and finding the fields torn up, the build- 
ings burned and the cattle gone Then you will realize 
what so many people in Europe have to meet, and you 
will see why they must have good nourishing food and 
plenty of it in order to reconstruct — to build again — 
their homes and their lives. 

In this splendid work the United States must have a 
generous part. Now is our opportunity to prove that 
we are more eager to give than to gain. The people of 
Europe will do their best, and next autumn they will 
perhaps be able to provide the greater part of their 
own food. Meanwhile we must help them as we should 
wish to be helped if we were in want and there were a 
great land of plenty just across the ocean. 

What we shall need to send will vary from time to 
time. Wheat will soon be brought to Europe from In- 
dia and Australia. In less than a week after the signing 
of the armistice Australian ships were already on the 
way. Both wheat and meat will come from Argentina. 
Sugar will come from Java. When there are more 
refrigerator ships, we can send more meat. Some 
countries will need more wheat, some more fat, and 
some more sugar than others. To learn beforehand 
what kinds of food each will require will be in the hands 
of the Food Administration; and we shall look to it 



WHAT WE HAVE YET TO DO 95 

for guidance, as we have done ever since it was estab- 
lished. 

Many people have questioned, "After the war is 
over, shall we go back to our old careless, extravagant 
ways of living? Shall we begin again to leave sugar 
in the bottom of thie cup and fill the garbage can to over- 
flowing? No. Surely, after having once learned a 
better way, we cannot go back to the old fashion. While 
we may not need to put substitutes into our bread or 
to go without meat or to divide our teaspoonfuls into 
halves and quarters, we shall need to live simply. We 
shall have plenty of food to keep us well and strong, 
but we shall not have any to waste — if any of us are so 
foolish as to desire to waste. 

Another part of the work of the Food Administration 
will be to see that food is properly distributed both 
here and abroad. The old way of distributing food was 
to send it wherever the highest price would be paid, and 
sometimes to destroy it rather than sell it for a more 
reasonable price. The new way, the way of kindness 
— and of good sense, too, for that matter — is to send 
it where it is needed to enable people to do their share 
of the world's work. 

So it is that we willingly bear the burden of aiding our 
brothers across the sea. Long ago it was said that the 
United States is 

The hope of all who suffer, 
The dread of all wrong. 



96 FOOD SAVING AND SHARING 

We may well be proud of our country because she is 
powerful; but we love her because she is kind and gener- 
ous and thoughtful of those who without her help would 
surely perish. 
/( is worth remembering: 

That even the' coming of peace has not brought 

food to the hungry. 
That no country in Europe has enough food. 
That for the hard work of reconstruction nourish- 
ing food will be especially necessary. 
That the United States will share generously in 
providing food for those who are in need. 



CHAPTER XII 
. THE LITTLE GROUP OF ONE 

Did you ever notice that when anything is given to 
a little child, his first thought is to put it into his 
mouth as fast as he can ? When he is a few years older, 
he is ready to share his good things with his family, 
and after a while he likes to think that his city or state 
or his whole country is faring well. Some day perhaps, 
we shall learn to think of the whole world as one great 
family, and we shall be glad if we can help even a little 
in bringing it about that every one has his fair share 
of the good things of life. That is the deeper meaning 
of the Food Administration. Its present work is to 
feed hungry nations, but the meaning of the work is 
the "brotherhood of man." 

The Food Administration can only "press the 
button;" we, the people of the United States, must 
"do the rest." Germany marched forward with a 
chip on her shoulder and a challenge to knock it off 



98 FOOD SAVING AND SHARING 

if we could. The "chip" was a "dare" to keep the 
Allies from starving, and we helped to do it. Wars 
used to be won chiefly by bullets, but this war was won 
by bullets and work and bread. We were obliged to 
have enormous armies and great factories and food for 
millions; but after all, it was the little group of one 
that brought success. One man fired one gun, one 
man helped make munitions, one man cultivated the 
ground; that is the way the mighty armies, the great 
throngs of factory workers, and the countless bands of 
farmers were formed. We shall never get far beyond 
the verse that little children sing: 

Little drops of water, 

Little grains of sand, 
Make the mighty ocean 

And the pleasant land. 

We could not make a "mighty ocean," but we did help 
to make the ocean mighty in its freedom for all man- 
kind. We could not make a "pleasant land," but we 
helped to make all lands pleasant by driving away the 
robber hordes that sought destruction and ruin. 

With the conquered nations we must deal wisely and 
justly, aiming at what will be for the highest good of the 
world. We must do our best to help feed and reconstruct 
the countries that have suffered because of the war. 

It is only by " a long pull and a strong pull and a pull 
all together" that we can do these things. You know 
the game called the "tug of war," in which half the 



THE LITTLE GROUP OF ONE 99 

boys pull at one end of a rope and half at the other. 
There is no chance for any one in the middle; every- 
body must pull one way or the other. That is the way 
it is now; everybody in America is pulling in one way 
or the other, either to help the country or to hinder her. 
Not every one can buy Government bonds or many 
thrift stamps, but faithful work is just as helpful as 
money. Not long ago a newsboy carelessly neglected 
to deliver a paper. The subscriber telephoned to 
the office; the clerk reported the matter to the head of 
the delivery department; the head of the delivery de- 
partment sent another boy by the electric car to deliver 
the paper. It was quite like ''the house that Jack 
built," and it took the time of the subscriber, the tele- 
phone operator, the clerk, the head of the delivery 
department, and the second boy, and cost two carfares 
— just because one boy was not faithful. Time and 
faithfulness are all fully as valuable in this period 
of constructing the world anew as they were in the days 
of barrage fire and machine guns. 

Did you ever realize what an honor it is to be asked 
to work for our country ? A little child is always pleased 
if he can feel that he is doing something to help his 
father or mother. Even a little dog will try his best 
to understand what his master wants and is delighted 
if he can do it. Here is a mighty country — wide- 
spreading, prosperous, and powerful— and she says to 
every man and woman and to every child, "Will you do 
something for me ? " 



ioo FOOD SAVING AND SHARING 

Now what can every little group of one do for the 
country? The Food Administration has shown us 
some ways in which we can help. We know that every 
garden helps to produce food to make up for that 
which has been destroyed or prevented from growing. 
We Jcnow that we ought not to waste even a mouthful 
of food. On the wartime bill of fare of a luxurious 
hotel there was printed, "Help us to observe the Gospel 
of the Clean Plate; please order only what you will 
eat." 

We need this motto just as much now. We must 
content ourselves with simpler ways of living, and so 
save not only food, but also gas and coal and time and 
labor. 

Transportation can be saved. If every family could 
raise all that it eats, the railroads would be immensely 
relieved. A garden saves transportation, so does buy- 
ing food from the nearest farmer. So does shopping 
in your own town or even village instead of going to 
the nearest large city. Save express and mail. Save 
man power and the expense of carrying goods from the 
grocery or market to the house. Our grandmothers, 
if they happened to live in the country, would have 
thought it wonderfully convenient if a delivery wagon 
had called at their doors once a week. But now! 
"Some people order one-fourth of a dozen cookies in 
the morning and a yeast cake in the afternoon," said 
a grocer. To have no deliveries would be exceedingly 
wasteful, because it would take the time of hundreds 



THE LITTLE GROUP OF ONE 101 

of customers rather than of one or two delivery men; 
but we can reduce their work by carrying packages 
home, by never ordering more than once a day, or, even 
better, once or twice a week, and by trying never to 
order anything but perishable food just before a Sun- 
day or a holiday. Grocers usually have to employ 
extra help at such times, and a bit of thoughtfulness 
on the part of the customers would make this unneces- 
sary. 

During the last few years boys here at home have had 
such chances as boys never had before, because places 
left vacant by men were given to them. They received 
high wages, and they had splendid opportunities to 
rise. But did you ever watch them in working hours ? 
Some of them thought they were big folk just because 
they had dropped into big places. Others were trying 
their best to fill the big places. You could almost see 
at a glance which ones would rise in the world and which 
ones would never hold such high positions again. 

The verses about the hungry little French baby who 
couldn't be the "hope of France/' because he couldn't 
"get enough food to have a chance," end as follows: 

I wish I had a father. If I couldn't have that, then I wish some 
other babies' fathers would give me a place to stay — 

A warm, light place, with persons in it while the Person in Skirts is 
gone all day. 

And maybe they'd give me some food that wasn't as bad as grass tea. 

Do you think, if their babies have plenty and some left over, the 
other babies' fathers would do that for me? 



102 FOOD SAVING AND SHARING 

This is what we are trying to do; to feed the children 
and the grown folks, to help the nations that are at 
la.st set free from tyranny and cruelty, and to make 
the world safe and happy for them and for us. 

"I don't believe you know wh'at 'U.S.* means," 
some one once said teasingly to a very small American 
boy. The little fellow drew himself up to his full 
height, looked the man in the eye, and said, "'U.S.' 
means us." We are a firmly united people, striving 
for the right. We have a big piece of work on hand, 
but "'U.S.' means us," and with the help of God we 
will carry it through. 
/( is worth remembering: 

That the work of the Food Administration is to 
control and to save food so that every one may 
share it. 
That in the work that lies before us each person 

must either help or hinder. 
That it is an honor to be asked to work for our 

country. 
That "*U. S.' means us." 



• a a a 



»■» » » • 



» i I 



• »••«■» • *■ 



■' ) 



immt . « .. »*■*«■.«•»•■• •■•■■•^i 



, 4 ^*o|0^ ^ w* a i^»%  v" •■»* v i 






'• 



t " 



J • 



\ 

I 



/ V 



1 ( * 



\« 



>*V< 







.v,*""" 



f*»de in Italy 




fi'0329 



