< 769 
45 
Dpy 1 



UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS BULLETIN 

Issued Weekly 
Vol. XV FEBRUARY n, 1918 No. 24 

[Entered as second-class matter December 11, 1912, at the post office at Urbana, Illinois, 
under the Act of August 24, 191 2.] 



WHEAT SAVING 



By 

RUTH WHEELER 

Assistant Professor of Household Science 




PUBLISHED BY THE UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS 

Under the Direction of the War Committee 

URBANA 



Women of Illinois: Saving wheat is more important now than saving 

money 



• <^ 

Women of Illinois: 

It is imperative that we make a greater effort to save wheat. 

Our soldiers and sailors and the allies must have bread. 

A light digestible loaf cannot be made without some wheat. 

There is not enough wheat in the world to give everybody the 
necessary minimum amount if anybody uses wheat unnecessarily. 

And as far as the nourishment of the body is concerned, wheat 
is not at all superior to corn or oats. 

Therefore, be sure your breakfast food is not made of wheat, 
no matter What ornamental name it may bear; serve quick breads, 
cookies, puddings, pastries made without wheat; replace one-third 
or even one-half of the wheat in yeast bread by finely ground corn 
or oats or by potato flour or mashed potato. 

The Irish potato is one of the most highly nutritious foods we 
have. Potato bread is delicious ; it keeps fresh longer than all-wheat 
bread ; it makes a beautiful golden toast. 

Remember that graham flour and macaroni are all wheat ! Use 
crackers made of other grains than wheat. 

YEAST BREADS 
Potato 
Riced boiled potato or commercial potato flour can be substituted 
for one-half of the wheat flour in bread. The product is es- 
pecially satisfactory if the coarser wheat flours, graham or whole 
wheat, are used. The baking temperature should be somewhat 
lower than that for wheat bread. 

Com 
A mixture of one-half white wheat flour, one- fourth corn meal, 
and one-fourth corn flour makes a good bread. 

Oats 

When one-half of the wheat is replaced by oats, the latter 
should be in the form of meal or of rolled oats put thru a food 
chopper. The sponge should be made of wheat and the baking tem- 
perature the same as that of all-wheat bread. 

Rye 

One-half the wheat flour in bread may be replaced by rye flour 
or rye meal, the latter giving a rather better product. The first dough 
should be relatively soft and contain all of the ingredients except 
one-fifth of the white flour which is saved for the last mixing. 

A fair bread may be made by using half rye and for the other 
half of the flour a mixture of three-fifths wheat flour and two- 
fifths commercial potato flour. 

D. of D. 
JUN fl 1918 









Rye breads should be baked at a lower temperature than wheat 
breads thruout the baking period. 

Our supply of rye and barley is being rapidly decreased by 
shipments to the allies. Use corn, oats, and potato, preferably 
therefore. 

QUICK BREADS 

Good digestible quick breads may be made without any wheat. 
On wheatless days either these should be served or no bread at all. 
When large quantities must be baked at once, quick corn bread, such 
as wafer corn bread or corn dodger, is particularly useful. It is a 
good food from the nutritive standpoint, is palatable, takes little 
manipulation, and so is quickly made. 

Wafer Corn Bread 
2 cups fine corn meal i egg 

2 teaspoons baking powder i tablespoon fat 

y 2 teaspoon salt 2 cups milk 

2 tablespoons molasses 

Mix corn meal, baking powder, and salt. Add melted shortening 
molasses, and beaten egg. Beat. Pour into shallow pans to a depth of not 
more than one-fourth inch. Bake in hot oven. 

Prairie Bread 
Y2 cup corn meal 1% cups rye flour 

Vi teaspoon salt 4 teaspoons baking powder 

1 tablespoon vegetable oil %cup milk 

Y 3 cup boiling water y 2 C up chopped nut meats 

Put corn meal into a bowl, add salt, oil and boiling water. Mix. Let 
stand twenty minutes. Now add flour mixed with baking powder and the 
milk and nuts. Mix lightly, pour into a well greased bread pan ; let stand in 
a warm place twenty minutes. Bake in a moderately hot oven. Do not cut 
until cold. 

Corn Dodger 
2 cups corn meal 2 teaspoons fat 

1 teaspoon salt 1% cups boiling water 

Pour the boiling water over the other materials. Beat well. When 
cool, form into thin cakes and bake thirty minutes in a hot oven. Makes 
fourteen biscuits. 

Boston Brown Bread 

2 cups corn meal 2 teaspoons soda 
2 cups rye flour 1 cup molasses 

1 teaspoon salt 2 cups sour milk 

Steam for three hours. This is a good flavored bread and compares 
favorably with other brown breads. 

Drop Barley Biscuits 

2 cups barley flour 1 teaspoon salt 

3 teaspoons baking powder 1 egg 

2 tablespoons fat 1 cup milk 




<-"woKt$s 



014 520 927 |% 



Good muflfins can be made without wheat by using one cup of rye meal 
with one cup of potato, rice, corn, or barley flour, or by using one cup of rye 
flour with one cup of corn, buckwheat or oat meal. In either case, one egg, 
milk, fat, sirup or sugar, baking powder, and salt are used, and the whole 
baked in a hot oven. 

DESSERTS 
Rye and Rice Pastry 

2 x /z cups rye flour i teaspoon salt 

\Vz cups rice flour % cup fat 

i teaspoon baking powder % cup water 

Sift flour, salt, and baking powder together; cut the fat into the flour 
mixture. Add water, mixing and handling as little as possible. Chill until 
ready to roll. 

Drop Cakes 

i cup rye flour 3 tablespoons water 

1% cups rolled oats 2 teaspoons baking powder 

Vz cup shortening Vz teaspoon salt 

J /4 cup brown sugar Y2 teaspoon cinnamon 

Yz cup corn sirup V2 cup nut meats 

1 egg V2 cup raisins 

Combine the sugar and the fat. Add the sirup and the water. Combine 

the flour, rolled oats, baking powder, and salt, and add to the first mixture. 

Add the cinnamon, nuts, and raisins. Drop on greased pans and bake in a 

moderately hot oven. 

MENU FOR A WHEATLESS DAY 

Breakfast : Fruit, rice and corn meal waffles and maple sirup, coffee 

Lunch : Baked soy beans, oatmeal muffins, jam 

Dinner : Tomato soup, pot roast, mashed potatoes, rice custard, coffee 

REFERENCES 

Secure the following bulletins from the United States Department of 
Agriculture, Washington, D. C. 

"Start the Day Right" 

"Do you know Corn" 

"Do you know Oatmeal" 

"Plenty of Potatoes" 

"Cereal Foods," Caroline L. Hunt and Helen W. Atwater, Farmers' 
Bulletin No. 817. 

"Partial Substitutes for Wheat in Bread Making", Hannah L. Wessling, 
States Relations Service Document No. 64. 

Let us do more than the Food Administration asks ! We can 
if all American women make food conservation their first concern 
and put their best thought into planning wheatless, meatless, sugar- 
less meals that are nutritious and so interesting that the family will 
look forward' to the " less" meals ! 

We must save more wheat even if it costs more money! 



• 




s 



LIBRARY OF CONGRESS 



II: II 111 Hill II I ill; III 
014 520 927 4 < 



