LIBRARY OF CONGRESS 



014 484 497 R 



HoUinger Corp. 
pH 8.5 



TX 747 
R28 

Copy 1 DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE 

BUREAU OF FISHERIES 
iLconomic Circular No. 36 ;::::::::: Issued April 23, 1918 



FISH ROE AND BUCKROE." 

With 85 Recipes. 

The natives of southeast Alaska liiglily prize the eggs of the sea 
herring, and at the spawning season congregate at the beaches adja- 
cent to the spawning grounds to collect supplies of this food. The 
eggs are adhesive, clinging to the vegetation and rocks Vv-ith which 
they come in contact. Taking advantage of this character, the col- 
lectors strew the beaches at low tide with green hemlock branches 
which later are covered with eggs carried in on the incoming tide. 
The egg-coated seaweeds and branches are hung on wires, strings 
and branches of trees, or laid on pieces of canvas to dry. Both fresh 
and dried eggs are used for food. In preparing the dried eggs for 
consumption, the entire egg-coated frond or branch is boiled for a 
few minutes in slightly salted water. The eggs drop off and sink to 
the bottom of the vessel, after which the vegetation is removed. 

Probably nowhere else in the world are the eggs collected after 
they have been deposited, but in all civilized countries the roes of 
certain fishes are of recognized high quality and classed among the 
most valuable of our fishery products. This is especially true of the 
eggs of the sturgeon, spoonbill cat or paddlefish, and others which 
lire manufactured into an expensive relish — caviar. The roes of 
othere, as the shad, mullet, whitefish, river herring, cod, and haddock, 
are quite extensively used for food, either fresh, salted, or canned. 
On the other hand, large quantities of roe, and practically all of the 
buckroe of marketed fishes, are permitted to go to waste. With one 
or two exceptions, these are excellent for food and should be utilized. 

In a single year (1909), the American hen produced li/o billion 
dozen eggs valued at more than 300 million dollars. We are fully 
acquainted witii the food value of hens' eggs, but do not appreciate 
fully that in dietary qualities the roe and buckroe of fishes are com- 
parable. These are essentially nitrogenous foods, with a considerable 
i|uantity of fat, and differ in composition but little from the flesh 
of the fish. They do, however, contain a larger (piantity of an im- 
portant constituent of food, organic phosphorus in the form of leci- 
thin. The fresh roe contains less water than the flesh, and therefore 

° By Lewis Radcliffc, assistant in charge of division of statistics and methods of the 
flshcries, Bureau of Fisheries. 
50G70°— 18 



^y-i 



-ua 



pound for pound has a largei- quantity of nutrients. For purposes of 
comparison some tabulated analyses follow. In comparing analyses 
of the canned with the fresh jiroducts, it should be borne in mind 
that water is added to the product in the cans when it is put up. 

Analysis and Food Value of Fish, Fish Roe, Buokeoe, etc. 



Kind. 



Shad (dressed) 

Shad roe (fresh) 

Kiver herring (dressed) 

River herring roe (canned) 

EiTor herring huckroe (canned). 

Polloclv buckroe (canned ) 

Sea herring buckroe (canned) — 

Sea herring roe (fresh) 

Sturgeon caviar 

Hen eggs 

Chicken (dressed) 



Water. 



Per 

cent. 

70.62 

71.25 

74.41 

79.67 

81.21 

79.39 

79.25 

69.22 

66.05 

65.50 

71.30 



Dry 
flesh. 



Per 

cent. 
29. 28 
2.S. 75 
25. 59 
20.33 
18.79 
20.61 
20.75 
30.78 
33.95 
34. SO 
28.70 



Pro- 
tein. 



Per 
cent. 
18.53 
23.44 
19.17 
14.25 

o 14. 19 
13.68 
15.54 

25.21 
14.37 
13.10 
24.30 



Per 

cent. 
9.48 
3.78 
4.92 

4.84 
2.41 
2.62 
2.72 
4.19 
8.97 
9.30 
2.60 



Ash. 



Per 

cent. 

1.25 

1.53 

1.47 

1.24 

2.19 

3.98 

2.49 

1.38 

6 7. 26 

.90 

1.40 



Total 
nutri- 
ents. 



Fuel 

value 

per 

pound; 



Per 

cent. 

28.03 

27.22 

24.09 

19.09 

16.60 

16.30 

18. 26 

29.40 

23. 34 

22.4(1 

26.90 



Caln- 

ries. 
744 
596 
564 
469 
365 
3«$ 
40a 
64S 
645 
63S 
581 



o By difference. 



6 Of this total 6. 16 parts salt is used in preserving product. 



The buckroe or milt roe (that part of the male which corresponds 
to the egg mass of the female and is sometimes called soft roe), as 
shown by analysis, compares favorably in food value with the roe 
and flesh of the fish. It is, in fact, a most excellent product, a deli- 
cate and palatable fish food, and has been so pronounced by teachers 
of domestic science and others who have given it a trial. As stated 
by one of these, " it lends itself to preparation in all the ways in 
which the French cook serves sweetbreads and brains — e. g., breaded 
and fried, fried in batter, in fritters, in patties; as a salad with diced 
carrots, peas, parsley, celery, lettuce, potatoes, etc.; hot on toast with 
a white sauce and mixed minced vegetable; with vinaigrette sauce, 
etc." 

As many housekeepers are able to obtain these products in abund- 
ance, it is suggested that supplies be canned for home use during the 
year. To a quart can of roe or buckroe add a heaping teaspoonful 
of salt and fill with water. Process for 50 minutes at 250° F. in a 
pressure cooker. As the roe swells in processing, the can should not 
be completely filled. Fish canners have expressed a willingness to 
cooperate in saving these i^roducts provided they can market them. 
Lend your assistance in preventing their waste by adding them to 
your diet. Following are a few of the ways in which these may be 
cooked, recipes 1 to 53 being for roe and 54 to 85 for buckroe. 

ROE RECIPES. 

1. Fried roe. — Wash, wipe, and roll in flour and cracker crumbs 2 pounds of 
herring, shad, or other flsh roe and fry in butter or lard the same as fish. It 
should be kept well covered while cooking, as the small globules of which it is 



Dw Of D; 

MAY 18 1918 



,f( 



composed exploile and scatter. Serve with slices of lemon and parsley, or with 
tartar or tomato sauce. 

2. Fried roe. — Parboil tlie roe iu salted water, drain, plunge into cold water, 
and let stand for 10 minutes. Drain, wipe dry, out in i/i-iuch slices, dip in sea- 
soned lemon juice, tlien iu beaten egg, th«u in crumbs, and fry in fat to cover. 
Serve on crisp lettuce. 

3. Fried roe. — Season the roe, dip in corn meal, and saut€ until brown in but- 
ter or lard. Add 1 tablespoonful of butter to 1 cupful of cream, bring to a 
boil, season with salt and pepper and pour over the roe, and serve. 

4. Fried roe. — Parboil the roe in salted water to which a slice of lemon and 
a sprig of parsley have been added. Cool in the liquid. Drain, wipe dry, dip 
in beaten egg, then in cracker crumbs, and fry brown iu Initter. Strain the 
cooking liquid into the frying jiau, add 1 teaspoonful each of Worcestershire 
sauce and tomato catsup, and bring to a boil. Thicken with 1 tablespoonful of 
flour browned in butter and made smooth with a little sherry or madeira. 
Bring to a boil, pour over the roe, and serve. 

5. Fried roe with bacon. — Wash the roe and dry thoroughly. Cut Vi pound of 
bacon into thin slices, cook very little over a hot tire, and place in serving dish 
in oven to keep warm. Fry the roe in the bacon fat, and when done place on 
the bacon which has been arranged in the serving dish. Garnish with parsley 
and sliced tomatoes. 

6. Broiled roe. — Parboil the roe for 10 minutes in salted water, drain, and 
plunge into ice water for 10 minutes. Wipe dry and put on ice for Y> liour. 
Rub with olive oil and lemon juice. Broil on a well-greased broiler and serve 
with maltre d'hStel sauce. 

7. Broiled roe. — Soak the roe for 20 minutes in olive oil. Season with the 
juice of 1 lemon, salt, celery salt, and pepper. Allow to stand for 1.5 minutes 
and then broil on a well-greased broiler over a very hot fire. Serve with Hol- 
landaise sauce and garnish with parsley, lemon, and sliced tomatoes. 

8. Baked roe. — Butter a baking disli and sprinkle thickly with chopped onion, 
parsley, and mushrooms. Lay the fish roe upon it, sprinkle with more onion, 
parsley, and mushrooms ; season with salt and pepper and dot with butter. Add 
V> cupfid of white wine and 1 cupful of white stock. Bake carefully, basting 
as required. Drain, thicken the gravy with flour cooked in butter, pour over 
the roe, sprinkle with crumbs, dot with butter, and brown in the oven. Squeeze 
lemon juice over and serve. 

9. Baked roe. — Boil the fish roe slowly until done. Drain and put into a 
buttered baking di.sh. Season with salt and pepper, spread with butter, and 
dredge thickly with flour. Bake in a moderate oven, basting frequently with 
melted butter and hot water. 

10. Baked roe. — Cover the roe with boiling water, let stand for a few minutes 
and drain. Put into a buttered baking pan with 2 tablespoonfuls of butter, 
1 cupful of stock, and salt and paprika to season. Bake slowly until done, 
strain the liquid and thicken with the yolks of 3 eggs beaten with 1 cupful of 
cream. Pour over the sauce, and serve with thin slices of broiled bacon and 
toasted bread. 

11. Baked roe. — Lay the roe in a buttered baking dish, season, add a little 
milk, and bake about 1-5 minutes, basting often. Place on serving dish, sprinkle 
with lemon juice, salt, red pepper, and minced parsley, and pour over a cream 
sauce, to which the yolks of 2 well-beaten eggs have been added, 

12. Baked roe. — Butter a baking dish, put in 2 pounds of fish roe, season with 
salt and pepper, and add % cupful of white wine or fish stock. Bake in a slow 
oven, basting frequently. Chop 1 onion, 2 sprigs of parsley, and 10 mushrooms. 



Pry in butter, add the liquid drained from the roe. and thiclien with a little 
floiu- nil)be(l sinootli in cold wiiter. Spread the paste lipon the roe, cover with 
larfre fresh mushrooms, sprinkle with crumbs, dot with butter, and brown iu the 
oven. Serve immediately. 

13. Baked roe. — Butter an earthen dish and sprinkle with chopped onion, 
parsley, mushrooms, and bread crumbs. Lay the fish roe upon it, cover with 
crumbs, mushrooms, minced onion, and parsley, and pour over this 1 cupful of 
white stock mixed with 1 tablespoonful of melted butter. Bake for % hour; 
drnin oif the sauce, strain it, and thicken with flour. Pour the sauce over the 
roe, cover with crumbs, dot with butter, sprinkle with lemon juice, and brown 
in the oven. 

14. Baked roe tvith bacon. — Cover the bottom of a baking pan with thin slices 
of bacon, lay the roe upon it, cover with bacon, aud bake in a very hot oven 
until done. Sqiieeze lemon juice over and serve with the bacon as a garnish. 

1.5. Baked roe with cream sauce. — Brown 2 tablespoonfuls of flour in butter, 
add 2 cupfuls of milk, and cook until thick, stirring constantly. Season with 
salt and pepper. Boil the fish roe for 10 minutes and drain. Place in a 
buttered baking dish, season with salt and pepper, cover with the sauce, and 
bake very slowly in the oven for 15 minutes. 

16. Baked roe with tomato nat/ce. — Boil the roe for 10 minutes, drain, and 
cool. Cook together for 10 minutes 1 cupful canned tomatoes, 1 cupful of 
stock, a slice of onion, and salt and pepper to taste. Cook together 2 table- 
spoonfuls of butter and 1 of flour, add the tomato mixture, and cook until 
thick, stirring constantly. Rub the sauce through a strainer. Put the boiled 
roe on a buttered baking dish, season with salt and pepjier, cover with the 
sauce, and bake. Sei^ve garnished with parsley and bits of tomato. 

17. Escalloped roe. — Boil the roe in salted and acidulated water for 15 
minutes ; drain and break up gently with a fork. Spread a layer of the roe 
in a shallow buttered baking dish. Cover with a layer of bread crumbs, 
soaked in milk, and sprinkle the top with chopped hard-boiled eggs seasoned 
with minced parsley, lemon juice, salt and pepper. Repeat this until dish is 
full, covering the top with the bread crumbs dotted with butter. Bake slowly 
in moderate oven. 

18. Escalloped roe. — Boil the roe in salted and acidulated water, plunge into 
cold water, drain, wipe dry, and mash. Add the chopped yolks of 3 hard- 
boiled eggs to 1 cupful of well-'seasoned, drawn-butter sauce. Mix the sauce 
with the roe. Butter a baking dish, sprinkle with seasoned crumbs, add the 
roe mixture, cover with crumbs, dot with butter, and brown in the oven. 

19. Escalloped roe. — Parboil in salt water 2 pounds of fish roe, drain, plunge 
into ice water for 10 minutes. Drain, wipe dry, and mash with a fork. Add 
the yolks of 3 hard-boiled eggs rubbed smooth with 1 teaspoonful of anchovy 
paste and the juice of % lemon. Also add 1 cupful of bread crumbs, salt, red 
pepper, and minced parsley to season, and 1 cupful of drawn-butter sauce. 
Butter a baking dish, sprinkle with crumbs, fill with the mixture, cover with 
crumbs, dot with l)utter, and brown in the oven. 

20. Escalloped roc. — Boil 2 pounds of fish roe for 15 minutes in a very little 
salted water. Drain and mash with a fork. Save the liquid in which the 
roe was boiled. Put a layer of the roe in a round baking dish, sprinkle with 
a little salt and pepper. Cover with a thick layer of bread or cracker crumbs 
moistened with the liquid in which the roe was boiled. On the top of this 
sprinkle a little grated cheese and dots of butter, a little salt and pepper. 
Repeat this in the same manner until the dish is filled. Bake in a quick oven 
for 40 minutes and serve. 



21. Roe croqvcttes. — Boil 2 pounds of fish roe In salted wnter for 10 minutes. 
Drain, dry, and then mix witli 3 woll-hejiren eggs. Add finely cluip)HHl parsley 
and season to taste. If necessary to thicken, add finely crushed bread crumbs. 
After making into forefinger or egg-shaiied i)ieces, dip in egg, then in bread 
crumbs, and fry in hot butter or olive oil. Serve on lettuce leaves, garnished 
with green mint, parsley, sliced lemons, and olive oil. 

22. Roe croquettes. — Boil the roe for 15 minutes iu salted water, drain, and 
mash. Cook together 2 tablespoonfuls each of butter and cornstarch ; add 2 
cupfuls of hot milk and cook until thick, stirring constantly. Take from the 
fire, add the mashed roe, and salt, cayenne, grated nutmeg, and lemon juice to 
season. Cool, shape into croquettes, dip in egg and crumbs, and fry in deep 
fat. Serve with tomato or tartar sauce. 

23. Roe croquettes. — Simmer the roe in salted boiling water for 15 minutes, 
drain, and plunge into cold water. When cold, drain, dry, cut into slices 
2 inches thick ; season with salt, pepper, and lemon juice, dip in egg, roll in 
crumbs, fry in deep fat, and serve on lettuce leaves witli tartar sauce. 

24. Roe croquettes. — Boil tlie roe 15 minutes in salted and acidulated water. 
Drain, cool, and mash fine. Cook together 1 tablespoonful of butter and 2 of 
flour, and add V> cupful of cream and % cupful of stock. Cook together until 
thick, stirring constantly. Take from the fire, add the yolks of 2 well-beaten 
eggs, and the mashed roe, and cool. Season with salt, pepper, lemon juice, 
and minced parsley. Shape into croquettes, dip in egg and crumbs, and fry in 
deep fat. Serve with tomato sauce. 

25. Roe croquettes. — Parboil 2 fish roe, drain, cool, and mash. Cook together 

1 tablespoonful of butter and 2 of flour ; add 1 cupful of boiling milk, and cook 
until thick, stirring constantly. Take from the fire, add the beaten yolks of 

2 eggs, and minced parsley, lemon juice, grated nutmeg, salt, pepper, and celery 
salt to taste. Reheat, stir until thick, add the mashed roe, mix thoroughly, 
and cool. Shape into croquettes, dip in egg and crumbs, fry in deep fat, and 
serve with HoIIandaise sauce. 

26. Roc croquettes. — Cook the roe in boiling, salted, and acidulated water 
for 15 minutes, drain, and mash. Beat together % cupful each of cornstarch 
and butter, add 1% cupfuls hot milk, and cook for 10 minutes, stirring con- 
stantly. Take from the fire, add the juice of % lemon, grated nutmeg, salt, 
and paprika to season, the mashed roe, and a few finely chopped fried mush- 
rooms. Cool, shape into croquettes, dip in egg and crumbs, and fry in deep fat. 
Serve with any preferred sauce. 

27. Roe croquettes. — Simmer 2 pounds of fish roe in salted boiling water for 
20 minutes. Take from the fire, drain, and mash. Cook together 1 table.spoon- 
ful of butter and 2 of flour, a<kl gradually 1 cupful boiling milk; cook until 
thick. Take from the fire, adil the yolks of 2 eggs, the mashed roe, 1 table- 
spoonful each of lemon juice and minced parsley, and salt, pepper, and grated 
nutmeg to season. Cool, shape into croquettes, dip in egg and crumbs, and fry 
in deep fat. Serve with tartar sauce. 

28. Roe A la Baltimore. — Put 2 pounds of fish roe into a well-buttered baking 
dish, sprinkle with salt and pepper, add 1% cupfuls of white stock and 2 table- 
spoonfuls of butter. Cover and cook in the oven for 15 minutes. Take up the 
roe and add slowly to the liquid the ycilks of 3 eggs beaten smooth and 1 cupful 
of cream. Cook over hot water until thick, adding 2 tablespoonfuls of butter, 
and salt and ijepper to season. I'our the sauce over the roe, garnish with 
broiled bacon and lettuce, and serve. 

29. Roe A In Palm Reach. — Parboil 2 pounds of fish roe, drain, cool, and skin. 
Put into a saucepan, cover with white wine; add 1 clove, 1 blade of mace, and 



salt and pepper to taste. Simmer for Y^ hour. Wash and drain 2 eupfuls of 
scallops, put into a saucepan and cover with salted bo'Iluf: water, addinpr a 
bit of bay leaf, 4 whole allspice, and 2 cloves. Cook together 1 tablespoonful 
each of butter and flour, add 1 cupful of the water in which the scallops were 
boiled, and cook until thick, stirring constantl.y. Season with salt and pepper, 
add 1 teaspoonful of minced garlic, and graduall.v 3 tablespoonfuls of butter in 
small bits. Take from the fire and add the yolks of 3 eggs well beaten. I'ut 
the roe into a serving dish, cover with the scallops and freshly grated horse- 
radish. Pour the sauce over, reheat, and serve. 

30. Roe & la maitre. d'hOtel. — Marinate the fish roe for 1 hour in olive oil 
and lemon juice, seasoning with salt and pepper. Drain and broil over a very 
hot fire and serve with a maitre d'hotel sauce, to which finely chopped parsley, 
onions, and tomatoes have been added. 

31. Roe a la Marplund. — Put l^-> pounds of fish roe into a well-buttered 
baking dish, sea.son with salt and pepper, add '{; cupful each of stock and 
sherry ; spread the roe with butter, cover and bake for 15 minutes. Take up 
carefully and thicken the liquid with the yolks of 3 eggs beaten smooth with 
1 cupful of cream. Take from the fire, add 1 tablespoonful of butter, pour 
over the roe, garnish with fried bacon, and serve. 

32. Panned roc. — Boil the tish roe for 15 minutes in salted water, drain, and 
break up with a fork. Melt 2 tablespoonfuls butter, add the fish roe with the 
yolks of 2 hard-boiled eggs mashed fine, 1 small cupful bread crumbs and pepper, 
salt, and minced parsley to season. Reheat and serve hot. 

33. Roe en brorhette. — Parboil the fish roe for 20 minutes, drain, and plunge 
in cold water. When cool, cut into small pieces and roll in flour. String on 
slender skewers with alternate squares of bacon cut very thin and broil over 
a clear fire or cook in the oven until the bacon is crisp. Serve with melted 
butter seasoned with lemon juice. 

34. Roe kromeskies. — Parboil 1 pound of fish roe, drain, cool, skin, and cut 
into small pieces. Season with salt and pepper; wrap a thin slice of bacon 
around each piece and fasten with a toothpick. Pry in deep fat and serve with 
tomato sauce. 

35. Roe irith brown butter sauce. — Boil the roe slowly in salted and acidulated 
water, drain, and pour over % cupful of butter melted and browned to hazelnut 
color. Season with salt, pepper, and lemon juice, and garnish with parsley. 

36. Roe with mushrooms. — Boil the roe in salted water for 10 minutes, mash 
with a fork, and add an equal quantity of fresh or canned mushrooms cut in 
small pieces. Cook together 1 tablespoonful each of butter and flour and add '^ 
cupful of cream mixed with the beaten yolks of 2 eggs. Mix with the mush- 
rooms and roe. Fill ramekins, sprinkle with crumbs, dot with butter, and 
brown in the oven. 

37. Roe creamed, with mushrooms. — Parboil 1 ijound of roe, plunge into cold 
water. Drain, cool, and cut into squares. Sautg in butter until brown. Season 
with salt and pepper and add V^ cupful of cooked mushrooms and 1 cupful of 
boiling cream. Thicken with 1 teaspoonful of flour rubbed smooth with a little 
cream, season with salt and red pepper, and serve hot. 

38. Roe with eggs. — Boil 1 pound or more of fish roe and mash fine with a 
fork. Beat 4 eggs, season witli salt and pepper, add the roe, and cook in a chafing 
dish or frying pan with plenty of melted butter. Serve on toasted bread. 

39. Roe with hrown sauce. — Soak the roe in water for % hour. Scald, drain, 
cool, and cut in slices. Saute in butter and drain. Cook 1 tablespoonful of 
flour in butter, add 1 cupful of white stock, and cook until thick, stirring con- 
stantly. Season with salt, paprika, Worcestershire sauce, anil curry powder. 
Pour over the roe and serve. 



40. Roe with omelette. — Wash 1 pound of fish roe and boil in salted water for 
20 minutes; strain and mash with a fork. Tulie 8 egi;s, l)eat thcui s(i tliat the 
yolks and whites are well mixed, addinir a little salt, pepper, and lemon juice. 
Add to them tlie roe and stir uulil it is thoroughly mixed with the eggs. Place 
In a frying pan 2 ounces of butter and when melted and hot add the eggs and 
roe. Cook until thickenwl and browned, fold together, and serve immediately. 

41. Roe in chafing clish. — Wash the roe and boil in salted water for l.'j minutes. 
Strain and break up with a fork. Put in a chafing dish 2 tahlespoonfuls of 
butter and when melted put in the roe with the yolks of 4 hard-boiled eggs 
mashed fine, 1 small cup of dry bread crumbs, 1 tablespoonful of minced parsley, 
pepper and salt. Moisten with cream or milk. Stir, let it get hot, and serve. 

42. Roe fritters. — Wash 1 pound of fish roe and boil in salted water for 10 
minutes. Strain and break up by stirring with a fork. Put it in a mixing 
bowl with 2 ounces of flour, 2 eggs, salt, pepper, and minced parsley to season, 
Jlix all thoroughly together. Put some lard in a frying pan, and when very 
hot drop in 1 tablespoonful of the mixture at a time. Fry on both sides and 
serve. 

43. Roe on toast. — Wash 1^ to 2 pounds of fish roe, drain, and break up. 
Put in a saucepan with 2 ounces of butter and cook slowly for 20 minutes. 
Season to taste witli salt and pepper and a very little tobasco sauce. Moisten 
with a very little melted butter and .serve immediately on well-buttered toast. 

44. Roe au gratin on toast. — Boil 2 pounds of roe in salted water for 15 
minutes. Break up thoroughly and grate into it 3 ounces of American cheese. 
Mix carefully and salt and pepper to taste. Place the roe on slices of toasted 
bread and place in a hot oven, leaving it there only long enough for the cheese 
to melt. Serve immediately. 

4.5. Roe a l<t Xcirbcrg. — Boil 1 pound of roe in salted water for 20 minutes. 
Drain and break up by stirring lightly. Melt 3 tahlespoonfuls of butter in a 
double boiler and add the roe. Cook for 5 minutes. Then add % cupful of 
cream, the yolks of 3 eggs well beaten, 2 tahlespoonfuls of olive oil, 1 table- 
spoonful of lemon juice, and salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg to taste. Cook 
until it thickens, stirring constantly. 

4G. Roe loaf. — Boil 2 pounds of fish roe in salted water for 1.5 minutes. 
Strain and mash. Mix with it 2 cupfuls of boiled rice, W-, cupfuls of white 
sauce, and 1 tablespoonful of minced parsley, salt, pepper, and nutmeg to taste. 
Bake in a loaf. Serve hot with tomato sauce. Cold, it makes excellent fiUiiig 
for sandwiches. 

47. Roe, Creole style. — Parboil 1 pound of fish roe. Season with salt and 
pepper, and fry lightly in butter. Moisten with % cupful of white wine and 4 
tahlespoonfuls of Creole sauce. Cover and allow to cook slowly for 10 minutes. 
When done place on a serving di.sh, garnish with 2 timbales of plain-cooked 
rice and 2 half-heart shaped bread croutons. Sprinkle the top with minced 
parsley and grated cheese and serve. 

48. Roe icith curry. — Fry V2 onion very brown in 1 heaping tablespoonful of 
butter. Add 1 teaspoonful of curry powder and % cupful of boiling milk. 
Simmer for o minutes and add 1 tablespoonful of flour dissolved in cold water. 
When it begins to thicken, strain. While preparing the above, boil 1% pounds 
of fish roe in salted water. Drain, place on hot platter, and pour the curry 
over them. Garnish with parsley and sliced lemon. 

49. Deviled roe." — Parboil the roe for 20 minutes, drain and cut into 1-inch 
pieces. Roll each i>ieoe in mixture of Worcestershire sauce, anchovy sauce, 
mustard, and melted butter. Lay each piece of roe on a slice of toast and place 
in a hot oven for about 5 minutes. Serve hot. 

" Contributed by Miss Rose M. MacDonald, Bureau of Fisheries. 



8 

50. Roe salad." — Wash roe in water to which salt has been adrterl. Dip in 
olive oil and leave for a few minutes. Broil, chill, place on lettuce leaves, 
and serve with mayonnaise. 

51. Roe saMUfi — Marinate 1 cupful cooked roe in 2 tablespoonfnls olive oil 
and 2 tnblespoonfuls lemon .luice for i/i hour. Drain and add 1 cupful mineefl 
celery, salt and pepper to taste, and 2 scant tablespoonfuls mayonnaise. Mix 
lightly and serve on celery tops. Garnish with pimento olives, cut in halves, 
and teaspoonfuls of mayonnaise. 

52. Roe salacl.<^ — Empty 1 can of roe, wash, marinate for % hour in ] table- 
spoonful olive oil, 1 teaspoonful lemon juice, pepper and salt. Place on lettuce 
leaves and serve with mayonnaise. 

53. Sandwich fiUingfi — Marinate 1 cupful cooked roe in 2 tablespoonfuls 
olive oil and 2 tablespoonfuls lemon juice for Vi hour. Drain and add salt and 
pepper to taste, about 1 dozen pimento olives, minced fine, and IV^ tahlesfioon- 
fuls mayonnaise. Spread on thin slices of rye or graham bread. 

BUCKROE RECIPES.* 

54. Buckroe, plain canned. — Heat the buckroe in the can by placing it In 
boiling water. Open can. drain, and place on a serving disli. Pour over it 
melted butter, salt and pepper to season. Garnish with parsley or cress and 
serve. 

55. Buckroe bisque." — Wash and drain the contents of 1 can of bucki-oe, 
place in a mortar with 1 tablespoonful butter, % cupful boiled rice, and pound 
as smooth as possible. Put Into saucepan, add salt, red pepper, bouquet of 
assorted herbs, a blade of. mace, dash of lemon juice, and 1 quart of water. 
Boil slowly, pour througli sieve, working pulp through. Place soup on stove 
to keep hot. Beat up the yolk of 1 egg and add it slowly to 1 quart of boil- 
ing milk. WhLsk into the soup. Add a dash of sherry and serve. 

56. Buckroe bisque." — Wash and drain the buckroe and put through a sieve. 
Work in 1 tablespoonful of butter and 1 egg. Moiaten with a little milk. Fry 
out 1 slice of bacon fat ; add 1 small onion, minced, 1 tablespoonful of chopped 
celery tops. 1 sliced carrot, 1 red pepper, and 1 pint of water. Boil ; add 
buckroe, and boil slowly. Strain and press the ingredients through a sieve. 
Return to kettle but do not allow to boil. Boil 1 pint of milk and whisk it into 
the soup. Add necessary seasonings and serve hot. 

57. Buckroe chowder." — Mi.x together 1 cupful chopped buckroe, 1 cupful 
boiled rice, % cupful finely chopped celery, and 1 small onion cut fine. Add V2 
cupful boiling water, season with salt and paprika, and simmer slowly for 25 
minutes. Beat yolk of 1 egg with V2 cupful milk, add to the chowder, and stir 
for 3 miuutes. Serve hot. 

58. Baked buokroe. — Out the buckroe into small pieces and mix with au equal 
amount of bread or cracker crumlis. Put into a buttered baking dish, dot with 
butter, add a little milk to moisten, if necessary, and salt and pepper to taste. 
Bake in oven until brown. 

59. Buckroe in ramekins." — Mix together 1 can buckroe, 1 tablespoonful dried 
bread crumbs, 1 ounce butter, 1 tablespoonful minced parsley, and 1 egg yolk. 
Add salt and pepper and enough milk or cream to moisten. Fill buttered 



•Miss Olive B. Percival. department of household science. University of Illinois, sug- 
gests the following wa.v of preparing buckroe : Remove buckroe from the can and drain ; 
discard the liquid. Rinse with cold water. Then drop them into boiling, acidulated 
water (1 tablespoonful viiie^'ar or lemon juice to 2 cupfuls of water), and simmer 3 
minutes. Drain and rinse with cold water. Prepare in an.v way desired. 

" Contributed bv Miss Rose M. McDon.ild, Bureau of Fisheries. 

!) Contributed by Miss L. Madeline McClintock, Bureau of Fisheries. 



9 

ramcUiiis and place them in a pan of hot water in the oven. Bake for about % 
liotir. Serve with tomato sance. 

60. Buckrne and rife." — Cut 1 cupful huckroe into clioe and prepare the fol- 
lowing: One-half cupful strained tomato, 1 cupful boiled rice. 1 tablespoonfnl 
chopped onion. 1 tnblespoonful lemon juice, 1 touspoonful salt. ^4 teaspoonful 
celery salt, and a dasli of paprika. Arrange in layers in baking dish, cover 
with buttered crumbs, and bake 15 to 20 minutes, or until the crumbs are 
nicely browned. 

61. RurUrnr Inaf.'' — M.Tsh 1 cnn of buckroe tn a pulp, and mix with 1 egg, 
1 tablespoonfnl cracker crumbs, 2 ounces melted butter, and salt and cayenne 
pepper to taste. Turn into a mold and cover and steam 1 hour. Chill, slice, 
and serve with mayonnaise. 

62. Buckroe griddle cakes {flour).' — Make a batter witi Vj the liquor of a 
can of buckroe, ^4 cupful milk, 1 beaten egg, 2 cupfuls flour, heaping teaspoon- 
ful baking powder, and 1 teaspoonful salt. Break up Vi cin of buckroe ;ind stir 
into batter. Consistency of batter may be regulated by amount of milk, which 
may be increased or decrease<l according to conditions. Fry brown on griddle 
in the usual way for griddle cakes. Serve hot with butter. 

63. Buckroe f/riddlc cakef! {corn ineaj).' — Sift together 1 cupful corn meal, 
1 cupful flour, 1 teaspoonful salt, and 1 heaping tablespoonful baking powder. 
Beat 1 egg, add V2 cupful milk, and % the liquor of 1 can of buckroe. Add the 
dry ingredients, a little at a time, to the liquid and beat for several minutes. 
Lastly, add V2 can of buckroe broken into pieces. Fry brown and serve hot with 
butter. 

64. Buckroe fritters." — Make a paste of 1 cupful buckroe, add 2 eggs slightly 
beaten, 1 cupful milk, and 2 cupfuls flour, to which has been added 1 teaspoon- 
ful salt, 1 teaspoonful baking powder, and a little paprika. Beat well and fry 
by spoonfuls in hot' fat. Ser\-e with tomato sauce made as follows: Add to 1 

.cupful tomatoes % teaspoonful salt, 1 slice of onion, 2 or 3 peppercorns, and 1 
bay leiif. Simmer 10 minutes and put through a striiiner. Blend 1 tablespoon- 
fnl butter and 1 tablespoonfnl flour ,ind add strained tomato. Cook until 
mixture thickens. 

65. Bnckroc haslt.^ — Mix together Vi' can of buckroe, 2 tablespoonfuls of 
chopped green peppers, 2 tablespoonfuls celery. 1 tablespoonful chopped onion, 
and 1 beaten egg. Season with salt and pepper. Melt 2 tablespoonfuls butter 
in a frying pan and. when hot, put in hash. Cover lightly with bread crumbs, 
cook until a delicate brown, and serve immediately. 

66. Buckroe irith scrfiDihlcd eqtis." — Bent 4 egga slightly and add 1 teaspoon- 
ful salt, a little pepper, % cupful milk, 1 tablespoonfnl finely cut green pepper, 
and 1 cupful finely cut buckroe. Cook in frying pan in 2 tablespoonfuls butter. 

67. Biiekrne trifh rnii.throonis.^ — Cut into quarters the confents of 1 can of 
buckroe and 1 can of mushrooms. Mix 1 ounce butter, 1 ounce flour, % cupful 
of the liquor from the mushrooms, and ''^ cupful cream. Season with salt, 
pepper, and nutmeg. Add the buckroe and nuishrooms. Serve in patty cases, 
and garnish witli chopped parsley, 

6S. Buckroe. erramed." — Make a white aatice of 2 tjiblesfwonfuls butter. 2 
tablespoonfuls corn flour. 1 cupful milk, and 1 teaspoonful salt. When cooke<l 
sufliciently. add 1 cupful buckroe cut in dice. Serve hot on corn dodgers. 

69. Buckroe d. In Poulette. — Simmer the contents of 1 can of buckroe in a 
little water for 10 minutes. Drain and save the liquid. Rlend % cupful of 

a Contribnted by Miss Olive B. Perclval, department of household science. University of 

Illinois. 

6 Contributed by Miss Rose M. McDonsld. Bureau of Fisheries. 

'■ Contributed by Dr. W. C. Kendall, Bureau of Fisheries. 

I" Contributed by Miss Madeline McCUntock, Bureau of Fisheries. 



10 

butter and 3 tablespooufuls of flour in a saucepan ; when smooth add M: cupful 
of cream, the Hquld, and the yolks of 3 eggs well beaten. Cook slowly until 
thick, not allowing to boil. Add 1 tablespoonful of lemon juice, and salt, pepper, 
and grated nutmeg to season. Add the buckroe. Serve at once with a garnish 
of parsley. 

70. Buckroe with tomato sauce." — To 1 small can of tomatoes add a slice of 
onion, 1 teaspoouful salt, and 2 or 3 peppercorns, a little paprika, and simmer 
10 minutes. Put through a strainer. Blend 2 tablespooufuls flour with 2 table- 
spoonfuls butter substitute and add 1 cupful strained tomato and cook until 
thickened. Add 1 cupful of buckroe cut in dice, and, as soon as hot. serve on 
corn dodgers. 

71. Buckroe t la Proveru;alcfi — Make a sauce of % cupful butter, 2 cupfuls 
milk, and 2i/i! tablespooufuls flour. Mash the yolks of 4 hard-boiled eggs, mix 
with 1 teaspoonful anchovy sauce, and add to sauce. Lastly, add 2 cupfuls 
mashed cold boiled buckroe. Serve as soon as heated on pieces of toasted gra- 
ham bread. 

72. Buckroe cutlets. — Put 1 tablespoonful each of finely chopped onion, 
parsley, and butter in a cooking dish and cook for 5 minutes, stirring constantly. 
Add % cupful of flour, salt and paprika to season, and stir until thoroughly 
blended. Add 1 cupful of milk gi-adually and bring to the boiling point. Add 
the contents of 1 can of buckroe cut into small pieces. Cook for .5 minutes, 
pour on platter to cool. Cut into pieces 2 inches square, dip in beaten egg, then 
in crumbs, and fry brown in deep fat. Arrange on serving dish, garnish with 
parsley, and serve with tartar or tomato sauce. 

73. Buckroe chops.' — Wash the centents of 1 can of buckroe and press through 
a sieve. In a saucepan blend 1 cupful of cream, 3 tablespooufuls of Hour, 1 
tablespoonful of butter, and 1 tablespoonful of cracker crumbs. Add the buck- 
roe, pepper and salt, and 1 teaspoonful of minced parsley. Bring to a boil ; 
pour on platter to cool. Cut into chops, dip in egg and cracker dust, and fry in 
hot fat. Drain and serve garnished with cress and lemon quarters. 

74. Mock oysters." — Season buckroe with salt and pepper. Dip first into 
beaten egg, then into corn meal. Brown in a frying pan in a small amount 
of fat or in a dripping pan in the oven. Serve with slices of lemon. If desired, 
the buckroe may be marinated in lemon juice or vinegar before dipping in the 
egg and corn meal. 

75. Buckroe Creole." — Saut§ the contents of 1 can of buckroe in oil or melted 
butter, w-ith choiiped green peppers, fresh tomatoes, and onions. Serve with 
timbales of boiled rice. 

76. Buckroe cnnaiies.' — Parboil and mash 1 can of buckroe to pulp. Mix 
vvatli 1 teaspoonful prepared must .'•d, % ounce butter, 1 hard-boiled egg yolk, 
2 teaspoonfuls lemon juice, and a little paprika and nutmeg to flavor. Fry 
rounds of bread, place the mixture on them, bake for 5 minute.s, and serve with 
water cress. 

77. Buckroe canapes, Spanish style.' — To 1 can of buckroe, mashed, add 3 
minced cucumber pickles, 2 tablespooufuls of chutney, and 2 tablespooufuls of 
Hollandaise sauce. Spread on toast and sprinkle with 3 tablespooufuls Par- 
mesan cheese. Bake for 5 minutes and serve hot. 

78. Buckroe curry.' — Mix together 1 can of buckroe, 6 sweet almonds, chop- 
ped fine, 2 eggs, % pint milk, 1 ounce butter, 1 teaspoonful curry, and 1 lemon. 
Fry 1 sliced onion and mix with the other ingredients. Butter a pudding dish, 

a Contributed by Miss Olive B. Percival. department of household science, University of 
Illinois. 

' Contributed by Miss L. Madeline McClintock, Bureau of Fisheries. 
" Contributed by Miss Rose M. McDonald, Bureau of Fisheries. 



11 

squeeze into it the Juice of 1 lemou, and turn In tlie mixture. Biilce in ii mod- 
erate oven and serve hot with rice. 

79. Biicl-ror relixh." — Wnsh and drain the contents of 1 cnn of buckro^. Put 
in saucepan with IM; tablesi)ooufuls of vinegar, a little salt and cayenne, and 2 
tablespoonfuls of butter. Cook slowly for 5 minutes and serve on toast, 

SO. Buckroe salad.^ — Miirinate the canned buckroe in French dressing for 1 
hour. Drain and sene on bed of cri.sp bead lettuce with equal (luantities of 
l>eas or boiled rice and mayonnaise dressing. (5arnish with strips of pimento. 

81. Buclcroc salad.'' — Make the cooked buckroe into a paste, season with 
lemon juice, salt, and paprika, shape in balls, and serve on lettuce with mayon- 
naise dressing. 

82. Buckroe salad.' — Dice Vi can of buckroe, which has been ni.-iriii.ilcd in 2 
tablespoonfuls each of olive oil and lemou juice for 1 hour. Mix together 1 cup- 
ful finely chopped celery, 1 tablespoonful finely chopped green peppers, and 6 
pimento olives cut fine. Add the buckroe and 2 tablespoonfuls mayonnaise. 
Serve on lettuce and dot with mayonnaise. 

S3. Buckroe in roUs." — Mix together 2 tablespoonfuls finely chopped celery, 2 
tablespoonfuls chopped olives, and 2 tablespoonfuls canned bucki-oe. Add a stiff 
mayonnaise. Cut the tops off of 6 small rolls, remove soft part, fill with tlie 
above mixture, and replace tops. 

84. Buckroe sandivich filling." — Take equal parts, by weight, of cooked lui<k- 
roe and fresh butter. Mash very fine and rub through a sieve. Season with 
red pepper, chopped parsley, and lemon juice. 

So. Buckroe sandwich jilliny.'' — Make a paste of 1 can buckroe, 2 pimentoes, 
finely cut, 1 teaspoonful salt, 1 cupful mayonnaise dressing, and a little paprika. 
Serve on thin slices of buttered rye bread. Minced olives may be added. 

" Contributed by Miss Rose M. McDonald, Bureau of Fisheries. 

b Contributed by Miss Olive B. rercival, department of household science, Cniversity of 
Illinois. 

'Contributed by Miss I.. Madeline McClintocls, Bureau of Fisheries. 

o 



LIBRARY OF CONGRESS 



014 484 497 A 



-il 



( 



